!~ABS~! A common feature of plant defense responses is the transcriptional regulation of a large number of genes upon pathogen infection or treatment with pathogen elicitors. A large body of evidence suggests that plant WRKY transcription factors are involved in plant defense including transcriptional regulation of plant host genes in response to pathogen infection. However, there is only limited information about the roles of specific WRKY DNA-binding transcription factors in plant defense. We analyzed the role of the WRKY25 transcription factor from Arabidopsis in plant defense against the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae. WRKY25 protein recognizes the TTGACC W-box sequences and its translational fusion with green fluorescent protein is localized to the nucleus. WRKY25 expression is responsive to general environmental stress. Analysis of stress-induced WRKY25 in the defense signaling mutants npr1, sid2, ein2 and coi1 further indicated that this gene is positively regulated by the salicylic acid (SA) signaling pathway and negatively regulated by the jasmonic acid signaling pathway. Two independent T-DNA insertion mutants for WRKY25 supported normal growth of a virulent strain of P. syringae but developed reduced disease symptoms after infection. By contrast, Arabidopsis constitutively overexpressing WRKY25 supported enhanced growth of P. syringae and displayed increased disease symptom severity as compared to wild-type plants. These WRKY25-overexpressing plants also displayed reduced expression of the SA-regulated PR1 gene after the pathogen infection, despite normal levels of free SA. The nuclear localization and sequence-specific DNA-binding activity support that WRKY25 functions as a transcription factor. Based on analysis of both T-DNA insertion mutants and transgenic overexpression lines, stress-induced WRKY25 functions as a negative regulator of SA-mediated defense responses to P. syringae. This proposed role is consistent with the recent finding that WRKY25 is a substrate of Arabidopsis MAP kinase 4, a repressor of SA-dependent defense responses.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis WRKY25 (At2g30250) encodes a protein of 394 amino acids with a molecular weight of 44.134 kD and an isolelectric point of 6.43 (Figure CITATION). Based on the presence of two WRKY domains, WRKY25 is classified as a group I WRKY protein. The N-terminus and the region between the WRKY domains are rich in serine and/or threonine residues (Figure CITATION). Thus, WRKY25 may be regulated, at least in part, via protein phosphorylation by a protein kinase(s) such as MPK4 [CITATION]. WRKY transcription factors are thought to function by binding their cognate TTGACC/T W-box cis-elements in the promoter regions of target genes and activating or repressing their expression [CITATION]. A number of isolated WRKY proteins have been shown to bind W-box sequences [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. To examine the DNA-binding activity of WRKY25, we expressed the gene in E. coli, purified the recombinant protein, and assayed its binding to an oligonucleotide that contains two direct TTGACC repeats (Pchn5; Figure CITATION) using EMSA. Several WRKY25/DNA complexes with differing mobility were detected when purified recombinant WRKY25 protein was incubated with the Pchn5 probe (Figure CITATION). Whether the different complexes represent probes in which one or both of the W boxes are bound by WRKY25, or whether they are caused by formation of monomeric and oligomeric WRKY25 complexes is unclear. Alternatively, some of these complexes might result from protein degradation or incompletely translation of the WRKY25 gene. Binding of WRKY25 was not detected with a mutant probe (mPchn5) in which both TTGACC sequences were changed to TTGAAC (Figure CITATION and CITATION). Thus, binding of WRKY25 to the TTGACC W-box sequence is highly specific. If WRKY25 is a transcription factor, it is likely to be localized in the nucleus. The presence of putative nuclear localization signal predicted by the PSORT II program is consistent with this possibility. To determine the subcellular location of WRKY25, we constructed a GFP protein fusion of WRKY25. The fusion construct, driven by the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV)35S promoter, was directly bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. As shown in Figure CITATION, the transiently expressed WRKY25-GFP fusion protein was localized exclusively to the nucleus. By contrast, GFP was found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm due to its small size (Figure CITATION). A possible role for WRKY25 during defense signaling was further investigated by analyzing its expression in Arabidopsis after inoculation with PsmES4326. As shown in Figure CITATION, WRKY25 mRNA levels increase in wild-type plants after infiltration with either the control MgCl2 solution (mock inoculation) or the bacterial suspension. However, WRKY25 expression was prolonged in pathogen-infected plants, as transcript levels remained elevated at 24 hours post infiltration (hpi), whereas they were nearly undetectable in MgCl2-treated plant at this time (Figure CITATION). To determine whether WRKY25 expression is influenced by the SA, ET and/or JA signaling pathways, WRKY25 expression was monitored in various signaling mutants. Induced WRKY25 expression was modestly reduced in the npr1-3 and sid2 mutants, which are defective in SA signaling and biosynthesis, respectively [CITATION,CITATION] (Figure CITATION). By contrast, no significant difference was observed in WRKY25 expression between the wild-type plants and the ET-insensitive ein2 mutant plants following mock or pathogen inoculation. Analysis of the JA-insensitive coi1 mutant revealed a delay in WRKY25 expression following mock inoculation; however, it was significantly enhanced after pathogen infiltration, as compared with that observed in wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). These results suggest that WRKY25 expression is sensitive to environmental cues and it appears to be positively regulated by the SA signaling pathway but negatively regulated by the JA pathway. We also analyzed WRK25 induction in wild-type plants sprayed with water, SA, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC, the immediate precursor of ET) or methyl JA. WRKY25 expression was rapidly induced in water-treated plants (Figure CITATION), underscoring that the gene is very responsive to environmental stimuli. Plants sprayed with SA or ACC accumulated greater levels of WRKY25 transcripts than water-sprayed plants, whereas JA-treated plants accumulated less (Figure CITATION). Thus, both SA and ET regulate WRKY25 expression in a positive manner, whereas JA has a negative effect on WRKY25 expression. To analyze the role of WRKY25 in disease resistance, we identified two T-DNA insertion mutants for WRKY25. wrky25-1 (Salk_136966) contains a T-DNA insertion in the promoter region while wrky25-2 (Sail 754_A03) contains a T-DNA insertion in the last intron of the WRKY25 gene (Figure CITATION). Homozygous mutant plants were identified by PCR with WRKY25-specific primers. We then compared the wild-type and wrky25 mutants for Induced accumulation of WRKY25 transcripts. Since MgCl2 treatment and pathogen infection had almost the same potency in inducing WRKY25 expression (Figure CITATION), we used only pathogen infection in these experiments. Northern analysis using a full-length WRKY25 cDNA clone as the probe detected WRKY25 transcripts in wild-type plants but not in wrky25-1 plants after pathogen infection. By contrast, a WRKY25 transcript of reduced size was detected in pathogen-infected wrky25-2 plants (Figure CITATION, upper panel). This transcript was not detected when the same blot was probed with a DNA fragment corresponding to the region downstream of the T-DNA insertion site in wrky25-2 (Figure CITATION, lower panel). Thus, the T-DNA insertion in the wrky25-2 mutant results in generation of a truncated WRKY25 transcript that is predicted to generate a truncated WRKY25 protein lacking the C-terminal WRKY domain, which is important for DNA binding [CITATION]. Analysis of both wrky25 mutants revealed no difference in growth or morphology from that of wild-type plants; flowering also occurred at the normal time. Following inoculation with PsmES4326, the mutant lines supported similar levels of bacterial growth as wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). However, the inoculated leaves of wrky25-1 and wrky25-2 plants consistently displayed less disease symptom than wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). To examine the effect of WRKY25 overexpression, we generated plants containing a full-length WRKY25 cDNA driven by the CaMV 35S promoter (35S::W25). Northern blotting identified several transgenic plants that contained elevated levels of WRKY25 transcript constitutively (Figure CITATION). Two transgenic lines (#12 and #18 in Figure CITATION) that constitutively expressed WRKY25 at elevated levels and contain a single T-DNA locus in their genomes, based on the ratio of antibiotic resistance phenotypes, were chosen for further study. Analysis of T3 homozygous plants from both lines revealed no difference in growth or development from that of wild-type plants, although their leaf color appear to be slightly paler. Following inoculation with PsmES4326, the transgenic 35S:W25 overexpression lines displayed substantially greater bacterial growth (~12 fold) than wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). The inoculated leaves of WRKY25-overexpressing plants also developed more severe disease symptoms than those of wild-type plants after infection (Figure CITATION). To study the molecular basis for the altered responses to PsmES4326 infection, PR1 gene expression was monitored. Consistent with the enhanced susceptibility phenotype, WRKY25 overexpressing lines contained substantially lower levels of PR1 transcripts than wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). In contrast, PR1 transcript levels in the wrky25 mutants were comparable to those in wild-type plants (Figure CITATION). To determine whether altered PR1 induction in the WRKY25-overexpressing plants correlated with reduced SA accumulation, the levels of both free SA and SA-glucoside conjugates (SAG) were monitored. Both wild-type plants and the T-DNA insertion mutants displayed similar levels of free SA and SAG following PsmES4326 infection (Figure CITATION). Free SA levels in WRKY25-overexpressing plants were comparable to those in wild-type plants at 0 and 24 hpi; however, the level of free SA at 48 hpi was somewhat lower than in wild-type plants. SAG levels in uninoculated WRKY25-overexpressing plants also were ~10-fold lower than those in wild-type plants, although they rose to nearly wild-type levels after infection (Figure CITATION).
!~MM~! [α-32P]dATP (>3,000 Ci/mmol) was obtained from New England Nuclear; other common chemicals were purchased from Sigma. Arabidopsis plants were grown in growth rooms at 22°C and 120 μEm-2s-1 light on a 12 hour light and 12 hour dark photoperiod. SA was dissolved in water as a 100 mM stock solution and adjusted to pH 6.5 with KOH. SA was applied by spraying the plants with a 2 mM solution. MeJA was dissolved in 50% ethanol as a 10 mM stock solution and diluted to 100 μM with water before spraying onto plants. ACC was dissolved in water as a 10 mM stock solution and was diluted to 100 μM before spraying the plants. Total RNA was isolated from leaves using the TRIZOL reagent (BRL Life Technologies, Rockville, MD). For RNA gel blot analysis, total RNA (4 μg) was separated on 1.2% agarose-formaldehyde gels and blotted to nylon membranes. Blots were hybridized with [α-32P]dATP labeled gene-specific probes. Hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb plus hybridization buffer (Sigma) overnight at 68°C. The membrane was then washed for 10 minutes twice with 2× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate) and 1% SDS and for 10 minutes with 0.1× SSC and 1% SDS at 68°C. Transcripts for WRKY25 were detected with a full-length WRKY25 cDNA as probe unless otherwise indicated. Transcripts for PR1 were detected using a PR1 fragment generated from PCR amplification using two PR1-specific oligonucleotides as primers (5'-TTCTTCCCTCGAAAGCTCAA-3' and 5'-CGTTCACATAATTCCCACGA-3'). To generate the WRKY25 recombinant protein, its full-length cDNA was amplified using two gene-specific primers (5'-ATCGAATTCATGGACAATAGCAGAAC-3' and 5'-ATCCTCGAGTGAGGGCATAAACGAAT-3'). The amplified DNA fragment was digested with EcoR1 and Xho1, cloned into the same sites of pET32a (Novagen) and transformed into Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3). Induction of expression and purification of recombinant His-tagged WRKY25 protein were performed according to the protocol provided by Novagen. The purified proteins were dialyzed overnight against a nuclear extract buffer (25 mM HEPES/KOH at pH 7.5, 40 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1 mM DTT and 30 mg ml/l PMSF) at 4°C. The double-stranded synthetic oligonucleotide Pchn5 was designed based on the sequence from the promoter of the tobacco basic chitinase gene [CITATION] with two W boxes separated by 5 nucleotides. Pchn5 and the mutant mPchn5 probes were labeled to specific activities of approximately 105 cpm/ng using the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. Sequence-specific DNA binding was assayed with EMSA essentially as described previously [CITATION]. Binding reactions contained 12 μl nuclear extraction buffer, 5 μg poly(dIdC), 1 μg proteins and 2 ng of labeled double-stranded oligo DNA. DNA and protein complexes were allowed to form at room temperature for 30 min and resolved on a 10% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× TBE at 4°C. Full length WRKY25 coding sequence was amplified with two gene-specific primers (5'-ATCGAATTCATGGACAATAGCAGAAC-3' and 5'-ATCCCATGGTGGGCATAAACGAATCG-3'). The amplified fragment was digested with EcoR1 and Nco1 and cloned into a GFP vector behind the CaMV 35S promoter. The empty GFP plasmid was used as a control. Transient expression of the GFP fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells through particle bombardment of the GFP construct plasmid DNA was performed essentially as described [CITATION]. To generate the 35S:WRKY25 construct, the cDNA fragment that contained the full coding sequence and 3' untranslated region of WRKY25 was excised from a cloning plasmid and subcloned into the same restriction sites of the Agrobacterium transformation vector pOCA30 [CITATION] in the sense orientation behind the CaMV 35S promoter. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by the floral dip procedure [CITATION]. The seeds were collected from the infiltrated plants and selected in MS medium containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant plants were transferred to soil nine days later and grown in a growth chamber. The T-DNA insertion flanking sequences of the Syngenta Arabidopsis insertion library and Salk T-DNA insertion population [CITATION] were searched with the genomic sequence of WRKY25. Confirmation of the T-DNA insertions was done by PCR analysis using a combination of a gene specific primer (5'-CGGTTTCACACTTGACGATTT-3' for wrky25-1 and 5'-GCAAAAGGTTTCTTCTTGGGT-3' for wrky25-2) and a T-DNA border primer (5'-GCTTGCTGCAACTCTCTCAG-3' for wrky25-1 and 5'-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3' for wrky25-2). The nature and locations of the T-DNA insertions were confirmed by sequencing the PCR products. Another PCR was performed to identify plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertions using the above gene-specific primers and respective reverse primers (5'-AGACCCGGTTCTCTCTGGAT-3' for wrky25-1 and 5'-TCACGAGCGACGTAGCGCGGT-3' for wrky25-2). Pathogen inoculation was performed by infiltrating the leaves of at least six plants for each treatment with either 10 mM MgCl2 (mock inoculation) or a suspension of the bacterial pathogen P. syringae. PsmES4326 was cultured until OD600 = 0.6–1 in liquid King's medium B with an appropriate antibiotic at 28°C. After collecting the cells by centrifugation, the cells were re-suspended in 10 mM MgCl2 and adjusted to appropriate concentrations for plant infiltration. To assess bacterial growth, leaves were weighed, homogenized in 10 mM MgCl2 and appropriate dilutions were plated onto King's medium B agar supplemented with appropriate antibiotics. After incubation for 48 hours at 28°C, the number of colony-forming units (cfu) per gram of infected leaf tissue was determined. Free SA and SAG were extracted and quantified as described previously [CITATION].
