!~ABS~! Genetic evidence links the Arabidopsis MONOPTEROS (MP) and PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) genes to the patterning of leaf veins. To elucidate their potential functions and interactions in this process, we have assessed the dynamics of MP and PIN1 expression during vascular patterning in Arabidopsis leaf primordia. Both genes undergo a dynamic process of gradual refinement of expression into files one to two cells wide before overt vascular differentiation. The subcellular distribution of PIN1 is also gradually refined from a non-polar distribution in isodiametric cells to strongly polarized in elongated procambial cells and provides an indication of overall directions of auxin flow. We found evidence that MP expression can be activated by auxin exposure and that PIN1 as well as DR5::GUS expression is defective in mp mutant leaves. Taken together the results suggest a feedback regulatory loop that involves auxin, MP and PIN1 and provide novel experimental support for the canalization-of-auxin-flow hypothesis.
!~RES~! In this study, we are assessing the spatio-temporal expression patterns of two components involved in leaf vascular development in A. thaliana–MP and PIN1 and their potential interaction with auxin. Hereafter, we refer to ‘MP expression’ as the level of MP mRNA transcript indicated by in situ RNA hybridization, and ‘PIN1–GFP expression or localization’ as indicated by the fusion protein PIN1–GFP in pPIN1::PIN1–GFP transformed lines. Vascular terminology is as described in CITATION and CITATION, and as also shown in Figure S1. Terminology regarding positions within organs and individual cells is as defined in CITATION. First rosette leaf primordia stages are given in days after germination (DAG). In this study, we show how MP expression is progressively restricted from broad regions to pre-procambial cells. In 2 DAG leaf primordia, MP is initially expressed internally throughout the lamina excluding the margin in first leaf primordia (Figure 1a,b) or at elevated levels in the incipient primary vein (Figure 1c). By 3 DAG, MP expression indicates the incipient secondary veins along the margin (arrows in Figure 1d), which eventually sharpen to form secondary veins that are one to two cells wide (Figure 1e,f). For all subsequent basipetally formed secondary veins, MP expression is first low in a large region between the margin and the existing secondary pre-procambial strand (arrows in Figure 1g,i,j), before a distinct strand appears (Figure 1h,k). The same process occurs in the proximity of a leaf serration (arrows in Figure 1j,k). MONOPTEROS expression is also gradually restricted during the formation of tertiary veins (arrowheads in Figure 1i,j). [[FIGURE]] In the subsequent leaves, the larger final size is accompanied by a more complex venation and MP expression pattern. MONOPTEROS is expressed at the site of incipient leaf primordia becoming confined to an internal domain of expression (arrows in Figure 1l,m). Expression of MP is initially strong and widespread (Figure 1n), and can remain high and diffuse simultaneously in the first two secondary pre-procambial veins (Figure 1o). Secondary veins in later leaves can appear in a two-step process with strong and focused MP expression in pre-procambial veins connecting the midvein with the margin prior to connecting with the more distal pre-procambial veins (arrow in Figure 1o). Figure 1(p) shows how the level of MP expression is highest in pre-procambial veins without overt cellular differentiation (arrow), intermediate in procambial veins with elongated cells (arrowhead) and low or absent in fully differentiated veins (asterisk). In summary, MP expression appears to go through a process of gradual refinement from regions of low levels of expression in many cells into single files of cells with strong expression before procambial differentiation occurs. Expression of PIN1–GFP overlaps considerably with MP expression and also becomes restricted to pre-procambial strands. In the first leaves, by 2 DAG a two to three cell wide region of PIN1–GFP-expressing cells depicts the primary vein connecting to the hypocotyl vasculature (Figure 2a), with expression narrowing to a one to three cell wide primary vein in older leaf primordia (Figure 2b–d). A similar progressive delimitation of the primary vein strand is observed for later-forming leaves. In all rosette leaves, the first indication of secondary pre-procambial veins based on PIN1–GFP expression appears as a cluster of PIN1–GFP-expressing cells in the basal adaxial region (asterisks in Figure 2b,f,k and arrows in 2e). This region of PIN1–GFP-expressing cells is gradually restricted to form a continuous secondary strand that is one to two cells wide (Figure 2f–h,k–m). Secondary vein formation often occurs in two stages, with the strand forming between the epidermis and midvein prior to connecting to a more distal region of the midvein (Figure 2b–d) or more distal secondary strand (Figure 2g,h). This biphasic connection always occurs for the second to fourth secondary veins in later-formed rosette leaves (Figure 2i–k), but is usually more simultaneous for the fourth and fifth pairs of secondary veins in the first leaves and the fifth and subsequently formed secondary veins in later rosette leaves (data not shown). Expression of PIN1–GFP in developing higher-order veins appears as either outgrowth from existing veins or connection of isolated or clustered PIN1–GFP-expressing cells to a lower-order vein (Figure S2a,b). Expression of PIN1–GFP in all vein types is progressively lost in a basipetal direction as the more distal veins differentiate (e.g. Figure 3e). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Expression of PIN1–GFP suggests a role for the epidermis in directing auxin into developing vascular regions. In slightly bulging primordia, PIN1–GFP fusion proteins are localized to the apical end of all epidermal cells leading towards the primordia apex, which overlies the developing primary vein (Figures 3a,b and 4s). About the time of emergence of the first pair of secondary veins, PIN1–GFP is predominantly lost from the abaxial epidermis and becomes progressively more restricted to basal adaxial and marginal epidermal cells (Figure 3c,d and Figure S2c). Thereafter, PIN1–GFP is always localized to the basal adaxial and marginal epidermal cells that are adjacent to the newly forming secondary veins (Figures 2e, 3d,e and Figure S2c), connecting the epidermis and developing veins (e.g. Figure 4t and Figure S2e) until the procambial strand is clearly delimited (Figure 2g,h,l,m). In later-formed rosette leaves, this epidermal region includes areas just proximal and distal to a serration (Figure 3e), respectively involved in the formation of secondary (large arrows in Figure 2k–m) and tertiary marginal (Figure S2b) veins. Some of the later-formed rosette leaves (<5%) also maintain abaxial PIN1–GFP expression along much of the length of the primordia up until the formation of the fourth or fifth secondary veins (Figure S2d). [[FIGURE]] All vein classes show polar PIN1–GFP localization once the narrow procambial strands are clearly formed. Our results, however, indicate that PIN1–GFP proteins are initially diffusely distributed throughout the cytoplasm and/or on the plasma membrane. In young primordia that show PIN1–GFP polarity on the apical ends of epidermal cells, the procambial midvein cells often appear to have PIN1–GFP expression throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 4a), which later localizes in the basal end of cells (Figure 4b,c). Developing secondary pre-procambial cells often show diffuse PIN1–GFP cytoplasmic expression (e.g. arrows in Figure 4d), which later becomes polarized (Figure 4e). The most obvious examples of early non-polarized PIN1–GFP expression are observed in later-forming rosette leaves that have broad regions of cells with diffuse PIN1–GFP expression (Figure 4j,o). In these regions, PIN1–GFP gradually becomes more localized in fewer cells, eventually forming a secondary procambial strand with highly polarized PIN1–GFP localization (Figure 4k–n). Epidermal cells adjacent to developing secondary pre-procambial cells are often observed with PIN1–GFP expression throughout their cytoplasm, which is eventually more localized to the membrane as the secondary procambial strands develop or as a leaf serration expands (Figure 4o–r,t). Based on localization of PIN1–GFP protein we can predict the direction of auxin flow. Auxin flow in the primary vein is predominantly in the basal direction (Figure 4b,c). Auxin flow is predominantly bidirectional along secondary strands, with the distal cells having apical (Figure 4f) or basal PIN1–GFP polarity, with the more basal cells always having basal polarity where they connect to the midvein (Figure 4h), with one or more cells within the strand having bidirectional PIN1–GFP localization (Figure 4g). Less frequently, PIN1–GFP occurs only on the basal ends of procambial cells, resulting in a basal direction of auxin flow along a given secondary strand (Figure 4i). In young leaf primordia PIN1–GFP becomes localized to the apical ends of epidermal cells, presumably resulting in auxin flow to the apex before it is internalized through the primary procambial strand region (Figures 3a,b and 4s). The PIN1–GFP can also become localized at the poles in epidermal cells adjacent to developing secondary strands, indicating epidermal auxin flow towards a serration apex and then internally into the developing secondary strand (Figure 4q,r,t). Previous experiments to assess auxin induction of transcription of MP and other auxin response factors (ARFs) have been negative (CITATION). Instead, the auxin response mediated by ARFs is believed to come from auxin-induced degradation of Aux/IAA proteins that otherwise dimerize with and inhibit the DNA binding of ARFs (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1, the expression of MP is highly regulated. If it is not regulated, at least in part, by auxin, one has to consider mechanisms other than canalization of auxin flow for the patterning of MP expression. To assess whether MP expression can be induced by auxin at a local level, we exposed 3- or 4-day-old seedlings grown in liquid medium to the synthetic auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-d) for 16 h followed by whole-mount in situ hybridization. We used the strong auxin-response marker DR5::GUS (CITATION) as a control to identify suitable conditions for auxin exposure. In 3-day-old seedlings, exposure to 1 μm 2,4-d resulted in a patchy and weak activation of DR5::GUS expression, whereas exposure to 10 μm 2,4-d resulted in a strong response throughout the lamina (Figure 5b,c). Exposure to 1 μm 2,4-d enhanced pre-procambial MP expression and also resulted in ectopic expression in ground cells between pre-procambial veins predominantly in the basal part of leaf primordia regions where new secondary veins are forming (Figure 5e compared with d). Exposure to 10 μm 2,4-d, resulted in strong MP expression throughout the lamina except for a region two to three cells wide proximal to the margin (Figure 5f). Cells in this region appear to lack not only the competence to express MP in response to auxin, but also to respond to accumulation of endogenous auxin by vascular differentiation (Mattsson et al., 1999, 2003). That cellular competence may play a role in the response of MP to auxin is further supported by exposure of 4-day-old leaf primordia to auxin (Figure S5), where the response is limited almost entirely to the actively growing basal part of the primordia. The response of MP in primordia of this age to exogenous auxin is similar to the auxin response reported for pPIN1::PIN1–GFP to topical application of auxin (CITATION). We can reproduce a similar induction of PIN1 mRNA transcript by auxin exposure in liquid medium and detection by in situ hybridization (Figure S5), providing further evidence of a similar response of MP and PIN1 to auxin. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether MP expression responds to changes in the distribution of endogenous auxin, we exposed seedlings to auxin transport inhibitors rather than auxin. This kind of treatment is known to cause major alterations in auxin distribution (CITATION) and correlated changes in venation patterns (CITATION; CITATION). In young leaf primordia of seedlings germinated in the presence of 10 μmN-(1-naphthyl)phthalamic acid (NPA), MP is expressed primarily in a region two to three cells proximal and parallel to the leaf margin, with low levels of MP expression throughout the central lamina (Figure 6g,h). In more advanced primordia, there can also be pre-procambial strands of MP-expressing cells extending from the margin towards the petiole (Figure 6i). This pattern of expression in response to NPA treatment is almost identical to that observed with the auxin-sensitive DR5::GUS reporter (CITATION; Figure 8g–i). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since MP encodes an auxin response factor, it is in theory possible that it regulates its own expression. To assess this possibility, we analyzed the expression of MP in primordia of mp mutants that produce a defective MP transcript. We found MP expression in young primordia indicative of pre-procambial primary veins and the first two pairs of secondary veins, which is comparable to the expression in wild-type primordia of equal size (compare Figure 6a,b with d,e). Thus it appears that the MP gene product does not feed back significantly on its own expression during formation of pre-procambial strands. The expression of MP in mp mutants is much reduced in later stages (Figure 6f), possibly due to the lack of pre-procambial cells at this stage, and a limited number of cells undergoing procambial differentiation. In summary, we have found experimental support that MP expression can be altered by manipulation of auxin distribution, and that early MP expression does not depend on activity of the MP protein. Since the MP gene encodes a transcriptional regulator, it is possible that PIN1 depends on MP for normal expression. To assess this possibility we introduced the pPIN1::PIN1–GFP marker into the mp mutant background. In contrast to the initially normal MP expression in mp mutants, PIN1–GFP expression in mp mutants is much reduced, both quantitatively and qualitatively (Figure 7d–f). The expression of PIN1–GFP in mp mutant primordia is evident in developing primary veins and incomplete secondary veins that terminate in a diffuse PIN1–GFP-expressing region (compare Figure 7d–f and Figure S3f–i with Figure 7a–c). In mp mutants, PIN1–GFP appears to be localized in the apical ends of epidermal cells in young emerging leaf primordia (Figure S3e). In older mp primordia, PIN1–GFP expression becomes predominantly restricted to basal adaxial regions (Figure S3f) with little or no epidermal PIN1–GFP polarity (Figure S3g–i). Similar to MP, in NPA-treated tissue PIN1–GFP has diffuse lamina expression two to three cells proximal to the margin in young primordia and marginal expression with strands leading towards the petiole in older primordia, although MP expression is higher near the margin of young primordia (compare Figures 7g–i and 6g–i). Treatment with NPA predominantly inhibits the development of subcellular PIN1–GFP localization in most internal cells (Figure S4) and in the epidermis (Figure S3a–d), although PIN1–GFP expression does become restricted to the basal adaxial and marginal epidermis in older primordia (Figure S3b). [[FIGURE]] The hypothesis of canalization of auxin flow predicts a feedback regulatory loop where auxin transport alters the pattern of auxin distribution (CITATION). If MP is part of such a regulatory loop, one may expect alterations in the auxin response pattern in mp mutant leaves. The auxin response pattern of DR5::GUS expression in wild-type primordia can be briefly summarized as having maxima at the apex and lateral serrations, in addition to pre-procambial and procambial expression (CITATION; Figure 8a–c). Most mp primordia have an abnormally large and diffuse apical maximum, usually no lateral maxima, diffuse pre-procambial and rarely occurring procambial DR5::GUS expression (Figure 8d–f). In wild-type primordia, NPA treatment predominantly shifts DR5::GUS expression to the margin of the primordia (CITATION; Figure 8g–i). A similar distribution of DR5::GUS expression is seen in older primordia of mp and pin1 mutants, although the latter can often also form two or more apical maxima of DR5::GUS activity (Figure S6). In summary, mp mutants appear to fail to delimit and organize vascular and marginal auxin maxima, while pin1 mutants can organize extra auxin maxima.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col)-0 containing a pPIN1::PIN1–GFP fusion construct (stock no. CS9362) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. The Col-0 plants containing the auxin-responsive promoter DR5::GUS construct were obtained from Tom Guilfoyle (University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA; CITATION). Sterilized seeds were plated in 9 cm Petri dishes containing solid A. thaliana salts medium (ATS; CITATION). For the auxin transport inhibitor treatments, seedlings were plated on media containing 0.1, 1 or 10 μm NPA (TCI, Tokyo, Japan). Seeds were stratified at 4°C for at least 2 days, and grown in a short-day chamber (8-h light/16-h dark) at approximately 20°C and 50 μE light intensity. For the auxin induction treatment, approximately 50 DR5::GUS seeds were grown in 9 cm Petri dishes containing 10 ml of sterile ATS medium on a rotary shaker for 3 or 4 days at 20°C. At these time points 0.1% (w/v) pluronic-F68 surfactant (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (Sigma) to final concentrations of 0, 1 or 10 μm were added to the medium and seedlings were grown for about 16 h. The seedlings were then GUS stained or prepared for in situ hybridization to detect DR5::GUS or MP expression. Observations were made on at least 10 primordia for each treatment. Expression was observed in leaf primordia extracted on sequential days. Results are based on observations of at least 20 leaves taken from each developmental stage. Individual leaves or leaf primordia were extracted from seedlings and mounted in a 30% aqueous glycerol solution. In order to avoid disruption of inherent PIN1–GFP localization, we mostly base polarity observations on tissues that were examined within about 15 min of mounting in water. In some cases determination of the polarization of PIN1–GFP localization in procambial cells was facilitated with induction of plasmolysis by mounting the extracted leaves in either a 2 m NaCl or 100 μm aqueous propidium iodide (Sigma) solution. A Zeiss LSM 410 confocal laser scanning microscope (Jena, Germany) was used to image PIN1–GFP localization. Green fluorescent protein was imaged using a 488-nm excitation filter and 500–530-nm emission filter combination. Background red autofluorescence was detected using a 568-nm excitation filter and an LP 580 emission filter set. DR5::GUS assays were performed as described in CITATION. Differential interference contrast images were taken on a Nikon Eclipse E600 microscope (Tokyo, Japan) using a digital camera. Adobe Photoshop software was used to merge images with slightly different focal planes. Whole mount in situ hybridization was carried out as described in CITATION with several changes. In our hands, a fixation time of least 4 h, and generally overnight, had to be used to obtain the expected expression patterns of several published genes, including MP. In addition, the background signal was decreased by agitation in a fresh solution containing 0.1 m triethanolamine (pH 8) and 0.5% (v.v) acetic anhydride for 15 min, followed by two washes in 1x PBT solution prior to hybridization for 2 days at 60°C. The MP sense and antisense probes were prepared as described in CITATION.
