!~ABS~! Plant-cell expansion is controlled by cellulose microfibrils in the wall (CITATION) with microtubules providing tracks for cellulose synthesizing enzymes (CITATION) . Microtubules can be reoriented experimentally (CITATION) and are hypothesized to reorient cyclically in aerial organs (CITATION) , but the mechanism is unclear. Here, Arabidopsis hypocotyl microtubules wershee labelled with AtEB1a–GFP (Arabidopsis microtubule end-binding protein 1a) or GFP–TUA6 (Arabidopsis α-tubulin 6) to record long cycles of reorientation. This revealed microtubules undergoing previously unseen clockwise or counter-clockwise rotations. Existing models emphasize selective shrinkage and regrowth (CITATION) or the outcome of individual microtubule encounters to explain realignment (CITATION) . Our higher-order view emphasizes microtubule group behaviour over time. Successive microtubules move in the same direction along self-sustaining tracks. Significantly, the tracks themselves migrate, always in the direction of the individual fast-growing ends, but twentyfold slower. Spontaneous sorting of tracks into groups with common polarities generates a mosaic of domains. Domains slowly migrate around the cell in skewed paths, generating rotations whose progressive nature is interrupted when one domain is displaced by collision with another. Rotary movements could explain how the angle of cellulose microfibrils can change from layer to layer in the polylamellate cell wall.
!~RES~! Cortical microtubules form tracks for cellulose-synthesizing complexes that move along the surface of the plasma membrane. The orientation of the cellulose microfibrils is then thought to constrain the direction of turgor-driven cell expansion (CITATION) . In elongating root cells (CITATION) , microtubules tend to be perpendicular to the growth axis but orientation is more variable in light-grown aerial organs of a variety of species (CITATION) , including Arabidopsis hypocotyls (CITATION) . This greater angular dispersion, observed in fixed cells of shoots, has led to suggestions that such microtubules may be undergoing regular reorientation based on endogenous rhythms (CITATION) . Plant microtubules are highly dynamic (CITATION) and translocate by hybrid treadmilling, in which the front end polymerizes more quickly than the back end depolymerises (CITATION) . At the whole-cell level, however, little is known about how the entire array reorientates, as it has not been possible to follow living cells for long periods nor, importantly, to determine microtubule polarity during reorientation. Here, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown in chambers (CITATION) and placed under a spinning disk confocal microscope so that epidermal cells of hypocotyls could be followed for long periods as they elongate. Seedlings expressing the microtubule plus end-binding protein, AtEB1a–GFP (CITATION) were phenotypically indistinguishable from wild type and were used to follow polarity in microtubule reorientation. AtEB1a–GFP forms 'comets' at the growing ends of microtubules, enabling the polarity of individual microtubules to be followed by live-cell imaging (CITATION) . However, to monitor longer-term behaviour, 2-day-old seedlings expressing AtEB1a–GFP were used and successive 6 min time-lapse movies were collected every 20 min for up to 24 h. To ensure that the cortex was always sampled, each time-lapse movie was collected by z-scanning a depth of at least 15 μm with a temporal resolution of 20 s, allowing the polarity of microtubule growth to be discerned (see Supplementary Information, Movie 1). Only those frames including the upper epidermal face were projected to trace the trajectories of growing microtubules and build an overall pattern of the array (Fig. 1). Then, successive time-lapse movies were projected to form a movie showing how the microtubule array changes with time (see below). [[FIGURE]] Microtubule alignment varies from cell to cell in light-grown Arabidopsis hypocotyls (CITATION) , probably reflecting the slower growth in the light (CITATION) . Movies of 2–3-day-old seedlings (see Supplementary Information, Movies 2 and 3) reveal these patterns are not static as the entire microtubule array undergoes striking reorientations, in some cases seeming to rotate through 360°. Such movements, which were consistently observed in all plants expressing AtEB1–GFP (10 plants), were also observed in seedlings expressing GFP–TUA6 (10 plants) and were therefore unrelated to labelling by AtEB1a–GFP (see Supplementary Information, Movie 4). Similar reorientations were also observed whether the seedling was placed horizontally on the microscope stage or vertically on a rotated microscope (see Supplementary Information, Movie 5). In these slow-growing hypocotyls the pattern of re-orientation differed between cells. For instance, the time taken for the array to reorientate through 360° varied from 200–800 min, whereas some arrays never underwent a complete cycle. Reorientation could be clockwise and counter-clockwise in adjacent cells, even changing direction within a cell (Fig. 1 and see Supplementary Information, Movies 2 and 3). Our analysis (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1) confirmed that reorientation occurs in light-grown cells that are still elongating (average 0.88 ± 0.36 μm h−1, 30 cells from 3 plants). When cells stopped elongating, microtubules came to rest in steeply pitched oblique and/or longitudinal patterns (see Supplementary Information, Movie 6), showing that rotation only occurred during growth. Plus-end growth rates were similar for both growing and non-growing states (see below). Reorientation was insensitive to the anti-actin drug, latrunculin B, despite the inhibition of cytoplasmic streaming (see Supplementary Information, Movie 7). Also, the inhibitor of cellulose biosynthesis, 2,6-dichlobenzonitrile, did not stop reorientation despite the cells becoming swollen, suggesting that neither the deposition of cellulose nor the biophysical restraints maintaining cell shape affect the reorientation of the microtubule array (see Supplementary Information, Movie 8). In contrast, reorientation was arrested by the microtubule-stabilizing drug, taxol (see Supplementary Information, Movie 9), consistent with hybrid treadmilling (CITATION) providing the motive force. Taxol also deformed cell shape after several days of incubation, suggesting that microtubule dynamics are required to maintain cell polarity. Longer-term time-lapse movies revealed groups of microtubules displaying higher-order behaviours that may account for the rotary movement. Microtubules grow along common trajectories or tracks that often display strong polarity (CITATION) (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1), with a succession of plus-end comets running in a single direction. Electron microscopic studies showed cortical microtubules forming small groups (bundles) of stabilized, parallel microtubules (CITATION) , but movies show bundles as dynamic, self-replenishing tracks in which polarized microtubules grow alongside one another in a telescopic manner. This suggests bundles or tracks are the basic unit of array behaviour. To quantify the polarity of tracks during microtubule reorientation, individual frames of successive time-lapse movies were analysed (four cells, each undergoing 360° reorientations, totaling over seventy 6-min movies; see Supplementary Information, Fig. S2). This showed that tracks themselves migrate, more slowly (see below) than the individual AtEB1a–GFP comets moving along them, but in the same plus end direction (Fig. 2). Moreover, groups of tracks can be identified in which microtubules predominantly move over the cell surface in the same direction — we named these groups 'polarized domains' (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S2). Polarized domains are constantly evolving structures as movement of domains through each other, in opposite directions, generates areas of mixed polarity. Fig. 2B shows a mosaic of several such domains migrating in different directions. Importantly, although individual microtubules grow in straight lines, over the longer period the tracks themselves move in curved paths, as illustrated by the progressive rotation of the arrows marked in the green and yellow sectors in Fig. 2B. Hence, although the array may seem to rotate like the hands of a clock around a fixed point, the reorientation is actually the sum of the curved migratory paths of several domains at different parts of the cell surface. In Fig. 2, this curved migration of tracks is progressive, giving the appearance of a smooth, overall rotation. However, such progressive rotation can be broken by 'jumps' (CITATION) or discontinuities in the migratory path (for example, from longitudinal to net transverse arrays or from left-handed to right-handed oblique arrays). Jumps had been deduced from aldehyde-fixed sunflower cells (CITATION) and our movies show they are introduced by the appearance onto the cell surface of discordant domains of differently-angled tracks. Fig. 2A and B, i–l, illustrate a discordant domain whose tracks move transversely from the right-hand edge of the cell, displacing the existing domain without going through an intermediate oblique stage. [[FIGURE]] Key features of discontinuous rearrangements are summarized in Fig. 2: first, discordant domains invariably advance in the direction of their plus end comets; second, where one domain collides with the flank of another domain, a curved collision site is formed (indicated by arrow) that moves ahead of the incoming domain; third, instead of disappearing from the collision site, the incoming domain slowly advances into the adjacent domain, without changing orientation. One model (CITATION) for microtubule encounters suggests that 60% of individual microtubules depolymerize when they collide with another at a steep angle. However, our observations on the longer-term outcome of interactions between tracks indicate that incoming discordant domains tend not to be lost, but succeed in migrating into the adjacent area. Calculations show that curved collision fronts move more slowly (0.3 μm min−1; s.d. ± 0.08; n = 10) than individual microtubule plus ends, whose movement remains fairly constant during reorientation (transverse = 5.64 μm min−1, s.d. ± 0.88, n = 42; left-handed oblique = 5.62 μm min−1, s.d. ± 1.09, n = 42; right-handed oblique = 5.53 μm min−1, s.d. ± 0.90, n = 42; longitudinal = 6.30 μm min−1; s.d. ± 0.86, n = 42). The slower movement of the collision front is more similar to the rate of minus-end depolymerization (CITATION) than of plus end growth, suggesting that the net movement of the array may be limited by microtubule depolymerization from the treadmilling minus end, perhaps required for generating space into which other microtubules migrate. Comigration of nucleation sites with the tracks (CITATION) would explain the successive flow of microtubules along a track (that is, their self-sustaining nature) and the persistence of collision fronts. The curvature of these collision fronts indicates that the incoming domain is likely to be exerting a pushing force. By aligning sequential frames in a kymograph it is possible to reconstruct a panoramic view of the cortical array as it migrates over the outer surface (Fig. 3) and show that their component domains are greater than the width of the cell. This indicates that domains are likely to move around the entire cell. In support of this, in tilted cells, we have observed comets moving around the radial walls and have also observed reorientations on the inner epidermal wall (data not shown), demonstrating that movement occurs on all faces of the cell. [[FIGURE]] The paths in which tracks migrate are intriguing. Fig. 3B shows one polarized domain of tracks (red arrows) moving from right-to-left, while another domain (yellow arrows) moves from left-to-right. Depending on the direction of movement, individual microtubules grow either into (red arrows, Fig. 3C) or away from (yellow arrows, Fig. 3D) adjacent tracks. Bipolar tracks arise when microtubules join tracks of opposite polarity, but when tracks of common polarity join (see Fig. 3C), the persistence of branch-points shows that tracks do not inevitably merge to form giant bundles — as might be expected if crossbridging were the only outcome of microtubule–microtubule interaction. In summary, the array can be visualized as a global system of interconnected tracks. Within the tracks the microtubules are growing fast, although the tracks themselves are moving slowly around the cell. Different regions can move together as polarized domains, or through each other, or can collide to cause fronts that slowly resolve. In long-term reconstructions (for example, 8 h) these migratory movements can be observed to generate various undulatory patterns passing over the outer epidermal wall (Fig. 4). The speed at which the array moves (0.3 μm min−1) is similar to that of the rate of movement reported for cellulose synthase (0.33 μm min−1) (CITATION) . As microtubules can guide the movement of cellulose synthases (CITATION) , rotation of the microtubular template could account for a spectrum of cell wall patterns, including consecutive wall layers with different orientations as reported for slow-growing Arabidopsis hypocotyls (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing 35S:AtEB1a–GFP and 35S:GFP–TUA6 have previously been described (CITATION) . Drugs were added to 2-day-old seedlings. Taxol (Sigma-Aldrich, Poole, UK), Latrunculin B (Sigma) and 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile (DCB, Maybridge, UK) were used at concentrations of 4 μM, 200 nM and 2 μM, respectively. Cold-treated seeds were placed on filter paper soaked with sterile water. A chamber was constructed from a hollow square of double-sided adhesive tape stuck to a large coverslip. Seed and paper were then inserted into the chamber and covered with a gas-permeable membrane (bioFOLIE; VivaScience, Göttingen, Germany). The chamber was then placed over a 1-cm hole drilled into a plastic slide and the edges of the sandwich sealed with tape. Chambers were placed vertically in the growth room for 2 days then imaged using a VisiTech spinning disc confocal microscope fitted with a 40×/1.3NA oil objective lens. Alternatively, slides were imaged on a Bio-Rad 1024 confocal laser scanning microscope in a vertical position on a purpose-built horizontal z-axis microscope as previously described (CITATION) . GFP was excited using the 488-nm line of an argon ion laser and emitted light filtered through a 500–550-nm band-pass filter. Fluorescence was detected using a Hamamatsu Orca ER cooled CCD camera with 1–4× binning, set at 0.7–1.0 s exposure time. Four-dimensional time-lapse was collected and projected (max) using the MetaMorph Imaging System. A z-stack of images (with 1–2 μm z-step intervals) was acquired every 20 s for 6 min and then repeated every 20 min. Long-term movies of growing hypocotyls were projected using nd-Stack Builder (F. Cordeliéres, Institut Curie, Orsay, France; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/plugins/track/builder.html) and aligned using Stackreg (P. Thévenaz, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Lausanne, Switzerland; http://bigwww.epfl.ch/thevenaz/stackreg/) plug-ins of ImageJ (http://reb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Movies were edited using the brightness/contrast tool of imageJ and the time-stamper plug-in (W. Rasband, NIH, MD; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/plugins/stamper.html). Microtubule growth rates and the polarity of domains were calculated from kymographs constructed using the re-slice tool. Cell area was calculated using CellFinder (CITATION) . Note: Supplementary Information is available on the Nature Cell Biology website.
