!~ABS~! Phosphatidylinositol monophosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) plays an essential role in coordinating plant growth, especially in response to environmental factors. To explore the physiological function of PIP5K, we characterized Arabidopsis thaliana PIP5K9, which is constitutively expressed. We found that a T-DNA insertion mutant, pip5k9-d, which showed enhanced PIP5K9 transcript levels, had shortened primary roots owing to reduced cell elongation. Transgenic plants overexpressing PIP5K9 displayed a similar root phenotype. Yeast two-hybrid assays identified a cytosolic invertase, CINV1, that interacted with PIP5K9, and the physiological relevance of this interaction was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation studies using plant extracts. CINV1-deficient plants, cinv1, had reduced activities of both neutral and acid invertases as well as shortened roots. Invertase activities in pip5k9-d seedlings were also reduced, suggesting a negative regulation of CINV1 by PIP5K9. In vitro studies showed that PIP5K9 interaction indeed repressed CINV1 activities. Genome-wide expression studies revealed that genes involved in sugar metabolism and multiple developmental processes were altered in pip5k9-d and cinv1, and the altered sugar metabolism in these mutants was confirmed by metabolite profiling. Together, our results indicate that PIP5K9 interacts with CINV1 to negatively regulate sugar-mediated root cell elongation.
!~RES~! To study the physiological role of plant PIP5Ks, full-length cDNA of an Arabidopsis PIP5K, PIP5K9, was amplified by PCR. The coding sequence of PIP5K9 contains 2448 bp and encodes an 815–amino acid polypeptide (∼92.1 kD) with high similarity to other PIP5Ks. Structural organization analysis reveals the presence of multiple MORN (for membrane occupation and recognition nexus) motifs (eight times) at the N terminus, a catalytic domain at the C terminus, and a dimerization domain at the middle region of the protein (Figure 1A ). This organization of different motifs is similar to that found in other plant PIP5Ks. Interestingly, PIP5K9 has a unique nuclear localization signal just C terminal of the dimerization domain (Figure 1A) that is not present in other Arabidopsis PIP5Ks, suggesting that PIP5K9 may have a nuclear function. [[FIGURE]] PIP5K9 is expressed in various tissues, including roots, stems, flowers, siliques, shoots, and leaves (Figure 1B), as determined by semiquantitative RT-PCR. The expression pattern of PIP5K9 was further examined by promoter–reporter gene fusion studies. Analysis of >20 independent Arabidopsis transgenic lines showed that PIP5K9 was expressed in seedlings at young stages (1 to 8 d; Figure 1C, panels 1 to 8), including cotyledons (Figure 1C, panel 9) and the root elongation zone but not in the meristem zone (Figure 1C, panel 10). Transcripts of PIP5K9 were also detected in leaves (Figure 1C, panel 11), flowers (mainly in anther; Figure 1C, panels 12 and 13), and siliques (Figure 1C, panel 14). In contrast with PIP5K1, PIP5K9 transcript levels were not altered by abscisic acid and NaCl treatment (data not shown). PIP5K9 expression, however, was repressed under low temperature (4°C) for 2 or 4 h but recovered at 6 h after treatment (Figure 1D). This result was confirmed by DNA microarray analysis (CITATION). To dissect the physiological roles of PIP5K9, a T-DNA insertion line, Garlic_210_H11, was identified from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (Torrey Mesa Research Institute). This line contained a single T-DNA (data not shown) inserted into the 3′ untranslated region of PIP5K9 (Figures 2A and 2B). RT-PCR analysis of homozygous mutant lines (Figure 2B, top panel) showed enhanced expression of PIP5K9 (Figure 2B, bottom panel), indicating that the T-DNA insertion mutant, Garlic_210_H11, is a gain-of-function mutant. We named this mutant pip5k9-d. Microarray analysis further confirmed the increased expression of PIP5K9 in this mutant. [[FIGURE]] Under normal growth conditions, pip5k9-d seedlings displayed shortened primary roots (∼30% reduction) compared with wild-type seedlings. The root shortening was more pronounced at 6 d after germination (Figure 2C). Further observation and statistical analysis of cell lengths at the root elongation zone indicated that the shortened root phenotype was attributable to reduced cell elongation (Figure 2D). The hypocotyl length of pip5k9-d seedlings was not altered significantly under light conditions. As PIP5K9 expression was repressed by low temperature, we compared seedling root lengths at 14 or 22°C at the same growth stage (when young seedlings had produced the first two leaves and before the third rosette leaf primordia were established) (CITATION). Statistical analysis showed no obvious difference in root growth at 14 or 22°C in pip5k9-d seedlings, whereas roots of wild-type seedlings were obviously elongated at 14°C (Figure 2E), indicating that pip5k9-d was resistant to chilling. Transgenic approaches were used to further elucidate the physiological role of PIP5K9. An overexpression construct (pO-PIP5K9) or an antisense construct (pA-PIP5K9) were transformed into wild-type (pO-PIP5K9) or wild-type and pip5k9-d (pA-AtPIP5K9) plants, respectively. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the enhanced expression of PIP5K9 in wild-type plants harboring pO-PIP5K9 (Figure 3A ) or the reduced expression of PIP5K9 in both wild-type and pip5k9-d plants harboring pA-PIP5K9 (Figure 3C). Statistical analysis of seedling root growth showed that enhanced PIP5K9 expression indeed resulted in shortened roots, similar to that found in pip5k9-d seedlings (Figure 3B), whereas repressed PIP5K9 expression in pip5k9-d rescued the shortened root phenotype to a certain extent (Figure 3C, right panel), although there was no significant change in wild-type seedlings (Figure 3C, left panel). All of these results suggest that PIP5K9 negatively regulates primary root growth. [[FIGURE]] To further explore the potential components of PIP5K9-mediated signaling pathways, proteins that can interact with PIP5K9 were identified using yeast two-hybrid screenings. Truncated derivatives of PIP5K9 consisting of the MORN motif and the dimerization domain, or the dimerization and catalytic domains, were used as baits to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library. We did not obtain any positive clone after screening of >4.5 × 106 transformants with a bait containing the MORN motif and the dimerization domain. On the other hand, we obtained several positive clones using the PIP5K9 dimerization and catalytic domains after screening of >3 × 106 transformants. Sequence analysis of the confirmed clones revealed one gene encoding a putative cytosolic invertase, which was assigned as CINV1. Two-hybrid analysis showed that the interaction with CINV1 activated the reporter HIS3 gene (even in the presence of 12 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, a competitive inhibitor of the HIS3 protein) and α-galactosidase (with whole CINV1 protein) (Figure 4A ), indicating a strong interaction between PIP5K9 and CINV1. [[FIGURE]] We next examined whether the full-length PIP5K9 protein was able to interact with CINV1. The entire coding regions of PIP5K9 and CINV1 were fused with those of binding domain (BD) and activating domain (AD), respectively, and the resulting constructs harboring fused MYC-PIP5K9 and HA-CINV1 were cotransformed into yeast cells. Detection of the relevant proteins with antibodies showed that anti-MYC antibody not only immunoprecipitated MYC-PIP5K9 but also coimmunoprecipitated HA-CINV1 from the protein extracts, whereas no HA-CINV1 signals were detected from the immunoprecipitates of yeast cells expressing MYC-PIP5K9 and HA or HA-CINV1 and MYC (two negative controls). These results confirm the interaction of PIP5K9 and CINV1 in yeast cells (Figure 4B). To further investigate the association between PIP5K9 and CINV1 in vivo, transgenic plants overexpressing both PIP5K9 and CINV1 were generated by transforming pip5k9-d plants with pO-CINV1, and negative control plants were generated by transforming at inv1 plants with pA-PIP5K9. Protein gel blot analysis detected the presence of CINV1 in the immunoprecipitated PIP5K9 complex (Figure 4C, left panel, bottom) and the presence of PIP5K9 in the immunoprecipitated CINV1 complex (Figure 4C, right panel, bottom), indicating a direct interaction between the two proteins in plant cells. We investigated the subcellular localization of PIP5K9 and CINV1 in vivo by transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves through agroinfiltration or in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells through particle bombardment. Confocal microscopic analysis showed that PIP5K9 was localized mainly in cellular membranes, the nucleus, and the cytosol, and CINV1 was found mainly in the cytosol but was also detected in the nucleus and membranes. When the two proteins were coexpressed in tobacco mesophyll and onion epidermal cells, colocalization of PIP5K9–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and CINV1–red fluorescent protein (RFP) was found mainly in membranes and the nucleus (Figure 4D). Based on the interactions of PIP5K9 and CINV1, we investigated the effects of PIP5K9 on invertase activity in vivo. Compared with those in wild-type seedlings, neutral invertase activities were reduced by ∼10 to 25% in pip5k9-d seedlings at 4 and 12 d after germination (Figure 5A , left panel). Similar results were obtained with acid invertase activities (Figure 5A, right panel). Together, these results indicate that PIP5K9 negatively regulates invertase activities. [[FIGURE]] The hydrolysis of sucrose to hexoses by invertase is an indispensable reaction in sugar signaling and metabolism, and hence the altered invertase activity may result in abnormal responses of plants to sugar. Therefore, we examined the growth responses of pip5k9-d to different concentrations of sugars. Compared with wild-type seedlings, some pip5k9-d seedlings developed green and expanded cotyledons in the presence of 6% d-glucose and were able to grow continuously (Figure 5B, left panel). In addition, statistical analysis of the primary root growth and relative root lengths confirmed the reduced responses of pip5k9-d to high concentrations of glucose (Figure 5B, right panel) and sucrose (Figure 5C). However, we found no obvious developmental alteration when pip5k9-d seedlings were grown in the presence of mannitol or sorbitol, perhaps because, in contrast with glucose, mannitol and sorbitol are not efficiently metabolized by plants and they mainly cause a constant osmotic stress to affect plant growth, suggesting that the reduced response of pip5k9-d to glucose and sucrose is specific and not related to osmotic stress. Full-length cDNA of CINV1 (At1g35580) was isolated and confirmed by sequencing. CINV1 contains 1656 bp and encodes a 551–amino acid polypeptide (∼62.8 kD). Structural analysis reveals that CINV1 is a putative cytosolic invertase and classified as an alkaline/neutral invertase based on pH optima. Enzymatic analysis of purified recombinant CINV1 protein, expressed in E. coli, indeed showed the sucrose hydrolase activity of CINV1 (Figure 6 ). The Km for sucrose is 99.43 mM at pH 7.0, and the pH optimum of CINV1 was in the range ∼7.0 to 8.0, confirming CINV1 as a cytosolic (alkaline/neutral) invertase. [[FIGURE]] Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that CINV1 was constitutively expressed in various tissues (Figure 7A ), similar to the expression profile of PIP5K9. A putative T-DNA insertion knockout mutant, cinv1, was identified and characterized. The T-DNA is inserted into the 3′ end of the gene (Figure 7B, top panel), causing a deficiency of CINV1 (Figure 7B, bottom panel). [[FIGURE]] Subsequent phenotypic observation and statistical analysis showed that cinv1 seedlings had shortened roots (∼70% of wild-type seedlings), similar to those of pip5k9-d (Figure 7C). Complemented expression of CINV1 in cinv1 rescued the short-root phenotype (Figure 7D, left panel), whereas wild-type plants with overexpressed CINV1 had no significant change in root growth (Figure 7D, right panel), suggesting the critical role of CINV1 in root growth. In addition to the root phenotype, cinv1 plants have light green leaves (Figure 7E; more obviously under weak light or in medium without sugar), which may be attributable to the inhibition of photosynthesis and the feedback regulation of photosynthesis by sugars (CITATION). In source organs, invertase hydrolyzes sucrose to limit carbohydrate export and sugar signaling, and the resulting changes in hexose levels can affect many processes, including photosynthesis. Further analysis revealed the obviously repressed activities of both neutral and acid invertase in cinv1 seedlings (Figure 7F), similar to those in pip5k9-d seedlings. The positive correlation between invertase activities and shortened roots of cinv1 and pip5k9-d plants suggest that these phenotypes can be attributed to the negative regulation of CINV1 by PIP5K9. Similar to pip5k9-d seedlings, cinv1 seedlings were more tolerant to high concentrations of glucose and sucrose compared with wild-type seedlings (Figure 7G). We performed gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis to determine changes in sugar metabolites in pip5k9-d and cinv1 roots (Figure 8 ). Figure 8A shows that the concentration of sucrose in mutant roots was much lower than that in wild-type roots, as was that of total disaccharide. Although the concentrations of glucose and fructose were higher in mutant roots, the total amounts in roots were reduced. Notably, the concentration of myo-inositol was obviously increased, which may be attributable to the altered PI signaling pathway (i.e., feedback of enhanced PIP5K levels). The similar changes in sugar metabolites in pip5k9-d and cinv1 roots reflected the regulatory effects of PIP5K9 (negative role) and CINV1 in sugar metabolism. Repression of invertase activity results in reduced amounts of hexoses in mutants roots (Figure 8B). Moreover, amounts of several amino acids (e.g., Leu, Val, Thr, Gly, Ser, Pro, and Asn) were undetectable in pip5k9 and cinv1 seedlings (data not shown), indicating repressed amino acid synthesis as well. [[FIGURE]] To dissect the molecular mechanism underlying the shortened root phenotype, we performed genome-wide expression studies using ATH1 Arabidopsis whole genome microarray chips (see Supplemental Materials online). Roots of seedlings at the same growth stage were used as materials. Compared with the wild type, expression levels of ∼20 genes were increased or repressed in both pip5k9-d and cinv1. Most of the increased genes encode transcription factors, heat shock proteins, etc. Among the repressed genes are those involved in carbohydrate metabolism (e.g., sugar transport) and genes associated with cell wall metabolism, such as polygalacturonase and pectinesterase (Figure 9A , Table 1 ; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Besides the common regulated genes, many genes were altered especially in pip5k9-d or cinv1, including those regulating cell wall status, actin dynamics, and jasmonate response (Table 1; see Supplemental Tables 2 and 3 online). [[FIGURE]] Altered Genes in pip5k9-d and/or cinv1 Phenotypic analysis indicated that photosynthesis was affected in cinv1, and the reduced sucrose amounts in both cinv1 and pip5k9-d mutants implied changes in the CO2 fixation/carbohydrate metabolism balance. We examined the expression of genes encoding photosynthesis-related proteins, including RBCs (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit), PC (plastocyanin), and PAL (phenylalanine ammonia lyase), which were regarded as markers for photosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that the transcript level of RBCs was obviously repressed in both pip5k9-d and cinv1 seedlings (Figure 9B), whereas no obvious changes of PC and PAL1 transcript (data not shown) were observed. These results indicate that the effect of enhanced PIP5K9 expression on photosynthesis is likely executed through its negative regulation of CINV1 and suggest that in shoots, reduced photosynthesis led to a repression of sucrose production. In addition, sucrose deficiency results in altered processes, including less flexibility of the cell wall (altered expression of cell wall–related genes) and increased stress responses (enhanced expressions of heat shock proteins) in vivo. Sugar metabolism and signaling are involved in and mediate various biological processes, in which hexoses serve as major signaling molecules (Figure 9C).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in these experiments. Plants were transformed using the floral dipping method (CITATION). Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on plates containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Plates were placed vertically and incubated under long-day conditions (20 h of light, 21°C), and seedling root lengths were measured 12 d after germination. MS medium supplemented with 0, 2, 4, and 6% sugar (glucose, sucrose, sorbitol, or mannitol) was used to investigate the effects of sugar on root length. All experiments were performed in triplicate, and the data represent mean values ± se. Primers PIP5K9-1 (5′-GGGTACCTGCTCTGCGGTTTGTCTGAGCGTTTC-3′; added KpnI site underlined) and PIP5K9-2 (5′-CGGATCCCAATCTGTACTCAATTCTCTGTCTA-3′; added BamHI site underlined) were used to amplify the full-length PIP5K9 cDNA from an Arabidopsis cDNA library. The amplified DNA fragment was subcloned into pMD18-T vector (TaKaRa) and sequenced. CINV1 cDNA was amplified using primers CINV1-1 (5′-CCGGAATTCATGGAAGGTGTTGGACTAAGAG-3′; added EcoRI site underlined) and CINV1-2a (5′-CGCGGATCCACCTAAAGCGGTTTTTCAGAGTTG-3′; added BamHI site underlined). Computational analyses, including sequence comparisons and BLAST search, were performed using the GCG SeqWeb program (version 2.0.2; Accelrys). Protein domain analysis was performed at http://swissmodel.expasy.org//SWISS-MODEL.html. Protein three-dimensional structure analysis was performed using Cn3D version 4.1 program (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) and VEGA ZZ 2.0.4 (http://www.ddl.unimi.it/). Semiquantitative RT-PCR analyses were performed to study the expression of PIP5K9 and CINV1 in various tissues of wild-type plants as well as in pip5k9-d and cinv1 mutants. Total RNAs extracted from various tissues of wild-type, transgenic, or mutant seedlings were used to synthesize cDNAs by reverse transcription. Equal amounts of first-strand cDNAs were used as templates for PCR amplification using primers PIP5K9-3 (5′-AGGATGCTAGGTTCAGAGTTAGG-3′) and PIP5K9-4 (5′-GGTTCTGTCTTCTCATATCTGGC-3′) and CINV1-3 (5′-ATCGTTACTGGCTGTGACCC-3′) and CINV1-4 (5′-ACGTACCTTCCGAGCTTACC-3′), respectively. The Arabidopsis tubulin4 gene was amplified using primers tub4-1 (5′-AGAGGTTGACGAGCAGATGA-3′) and tub4-2 (5′-CCTCTTCTTCCTCCTCGTAC-3′) and served as an internal positive control (CITATION). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis was performed with the RotorGene 3000 system (Corbett Research) using the SYBR green detection protocol (TaKaRa). TUB4 (At5g44340) mRNA was used as an internal control, and relative amounts of mRNA were calculated using the comparative threshold cycle method. Primers used were as follows: RBCs (At1g67090; sense, 5′-TTACCTTCCTGACCTTACCGATTCCG-3′, and reverse, 5′-CCACATTGTCCAGTACCGTCCATCAT-3′), PC (sense, 5′-GCTACCGTCACCATCCCTTCTTTC-3′, and reverse, 5′-GTTGCCACTGCGATGACACCGAA-3′), PAL1 (sense, 5′-TGAGTTTAGGAAGCCAGTTGTGAATCT-3′, and reverse, 5′-CGATGAGAAGTAGCACCAAAACCAGTAG-3′). An ∼1.1-kb promoter region of PIP5K9 was amplified by PCR using primers PIP5K9-5 (5′-CAAGCTTAAGAAGGCTGTTATTGTGGCG-3′; added HindIII site underlined) and PIP5K9-6 (5′-GCGTCGACAAGCAGAAACGCTCAGACAAA-3′; added SalI site underlined) using Arabidopsis genomic DNA as template. The 1103-bp DNA fragment was subcloned into pCAMBIA1300 + pBI101.1 (CITATION), and the resulting promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) construct was transformed into Arabidopsis. Positive transgenic plants were used for detection of GUS activities (CITATION). Photography was performed using a Nikon microscope with a digital camera. The PIP5K9 genomic sequence was used to query the flanking sequence database of the Arabidopsis mutation population (http://www.syngenta.com). One insertion line, Garlic_210_H11, was identified. The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant cinv1, SALK_095807, was obtained from the SALK collection. A PCR-based approach was used to identify the mutants. Two pairs of primers, pip5k9-sense (5′-CGTCGTACTCTACCTTGGCATTAT-3′) and pip5k9-anti (5′-TTTTCAGTGGTGTCATTGGATAGG-3′) and pip5k9-sense and LB3 (5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′) were used to confirm the exact insertion position of the T-DNA and to identify homozygous lines. Numbers of T-DNA inserts were examined by DNA gel blot hybridization, and homozygous lines were used for further analysis. Transcript levels in mutant and wild-type plants were analyzed by RT-PCR. For the analysis of the cinv1 mutant, primers used were LBa1 (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′), cinv1-sense (5′-ATCGTTACTGGCTGTGACCC-3′), and cinv1-anti (5′-ACGTACCTTCCGAGCTTACC-3′). Reciprocal crosses were performed using either pip5k9-d or cinv1 as the female parent. After removal of the petals, sepals, and androecia from large green buds, artificial fecundation was performed at 12:00 to 3:00 pm over the next 2 d. The PIP5K9 genomic DNA was amplified using primers PIP5K9-1 and PIP5K9-2 and subcloned into pCAMBIA1301 to create pO-PIP5K9 harboring PIP5K9 in the sense orientation. The entire PIP5K9 cDNA fragment was amplified with primers PIP5K9-7 (5′-GCTCTAGATACGAGGAGCAGTTTCTTTT-3′; added XbaI site underlined) and PIP5K9-8 (5′-GGGGTACCCTCCCTTTTGAGAGCTTATTAC-3′; added KpnI site underlined) and then subcloned into pCAMBIA1301 to generate pA-PIP5K9 harboring PIP5K9 in the antisense orientation. The CINV1 cDNA was amplified with primers CINV1-5 (5′-CGCGGATCCGAATGGAAGGTGTTGGACTAAGAG-3′; added BamHI site underlined) and CINV1-6 (5′-ACGCGTCGACACCTAAAGCGGTTTTTCAGAGTTG-3′; added SalI site underlined) and subcloned into pCAMBIA1301 to produce construct pO-CINV1 harboring CINV1 in the sense orientation. The generated constructs were used for plant transformation. Transgenic plants were analyzed by RT-PCR to determine transcript levels of PIP5K9 or CINV1 using external primers PIP5K9-9 (5′-ATGTCTGGCCTTGACGTACG-3′) and PIP5K9-10 (5′-GGTCCAAAGTCTGCTGTCCG-3′) or CINV1-3 and CINV1-4, respectively. Homozygous T3 lines were used for further analysis. Root sections (0.5 mm) of pip5k9-d and wild-type plants grown on vertically oriented plates for 12 d were sampled, fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde (16 to 48 h at 4°C), and dehydrated through a graded ethanol series. Samples were embedded in Epon812 resin (Fluka) and polymerized at 60°C. Longitudinal sections (3 μm) were cut and stained briefly with filtered 1% toluidine blue. Sections were microscopically examined and photographed to measure cell lengths (CITATION; CITATION). Screening for PIP5K9 interacting proteins was performed using the Matchmaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech, TaKaRa). Two cDNA fragments coding for the MORN motif and the dimerization region, or the dimerization region and the catalytic domain, of PIP5K9 were amplified with primers PIP5K9-11 (5′-CCGGAATTCATGTCTGGCCTTGACGTACG-3′; added EcoRI site underlined) and PIP5K9-12 (5′-CGCGGATCCGGTCCAAAGTCTGCTGTCCG-3′; added BamHI site underlined) or PIP5K-13 (5′-CCGGAATTCAGCGATGGAGGTTGCTATGT-3′; added EcoRI site underlined) and PIP5K9-14 (5′-CGCGGATCCCTCTGTCTATGATTTGTTGTTC-3′; added BamHI site underlined), then subcloned into pGBKT7 (BD) to generate the bait constructs pGBKT7-1BD and pGBKT7-2BD. The yeast strain AH109 was used as the host strain and transformed using a modified lithium acetate method (Clontech user manual) with bait plasmids. The transformants were subsequently transformed with an Arabidopsis cDNA library constructed with pGADT7 vector. More than three million transformants were screened, and positive colonies were subsequently tested for growth on supplemented SD medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His with X-α-gal or on supplemented SD medium lacking Leu, Trp, His, and adenine hemisulfate salt. Positive clones by both selections were further assayed on the same medium supplemented with 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, or 16 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole to test the strength of the interaction. Yeast DNA was extracted and transformed into Escherichia coli strain XL1-Blue to amplify the cDNA inserts. The plasmids were then sequenced and analyzed. To confirm the interaction, full-length cDNAs of positive clones were amplified and subcloned into pGADT7 vector and then retransformed into yeast cells. Full-length cDNA of CINV1 was amplified with primers CINV1-1 and CINV1-2a or CINV1-1 and CINV1-2b (5′-CGCGGATCCCTTTTCCCATTTTCTTTTTCCTTAC-3′; added BamHI site underlined). CINV1-pGADT7 and bait (pGBKT7-2BD) were cotransformed into AH109 cells. pGBKT7-PIP5K9 was constructed with the primers PIP5K9-11 and PIP5K9-16 (5′-ACGCGTCGACCTCTGTCTATGATTTGTTGTTC-3′; added SalI site underlined). Coimmunoprecipitation experiments using extracts prepared from yeast cells were performed as described by CITATION, except that a protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich), anti-MYC monoclonal antibody (NeoMarkers), anti-HA polyclonal antibody (NeoMarkers), nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher and Schuell), and a nitroblue tetrazolium/bromochloroindolyl phosphate system were used. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments using plant extracts were performed essentially according to CITATION. Transgenic plants overexpressing the relevant proteins were selected by protein gel blot analysis. Shoots of transgenic plants were harvested and ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was further ground in cold grinding buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.8, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 20% glycerol, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1% protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich]), and the suspension was spun at 6000g for 15 min at 4°C. The resulting supernatant was further centrifuged at 100,000g for 40 min at 4°C to sediment total membranes. The pellet was resuspended in membrane solubilization buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.3, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% Triton X-100, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1% protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich]), and the suspension was diluted with the membrane solubilization buffer without Triton X-100 to a final Triton X-100 concentration of <2%. The solution was preincubated with anti-PIP5K9 or anti-CINV1 at 4°C for >3 h, followed by the addition of one-tenth volume of protein A–Sepharose (Amersham). Antibody was then added, and the mixture was further incubated with one-tenth volume of protein A–Sepharose at 4°C with gentle shaking (overnight). Beads were washed twice each with five volumes of PBS buffer supplemented with 0.1% Tween 20. Bound proteins were eluted with elution buffer (0.1 M Gly, pH 3.0). The eluted protein were separated by 8 or 10% SDS-PAGE, transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher and Schuell), and analyzed by protein gel blotting with anti-CINV1 or anti-PIP5K9 polyclonal antibody (no cross-reactivity with other PIP5K or invertase). The reactive bands on membranes were visualized by exposure to nitroblue tetrazolium/bromochloroindolyl phosphate. The coding region of PIP5K9 was amplified with primers PIP5K9-17 (5′-CATGCCATGGCTGGCCTTGACGTACGAG-3′; added NcoI site underlined) and PIP5K9-18 (5′-GGACTAGTTGATTTGTTGTTCTGTGGAAATACTT-3′; added SpeI site underlined) and subcloned into vector pCAMBIA1302. The full-length CINV1 was amplified with primers CINV1-7 (5′-ACGCGTCGACATGGAAGGTGTTGGACTAAGAG-3′; added SalI site underlined) and CINV1-2a and subcloned into vector pGDR (CITATION). Tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants grown in a greenhouse were used for agroinfiltration experiments. Binary constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 by the freeze-thaw method (CITATION) and used to infiltrate tobacco leaves. Agrobacterial cells were grown at 28°C overnight. Cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in MES buffer (10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MES, pH 5.6, and 150 μM acetosyringone) to a final OD600 of 0.6. The agrobacterial suspension was infiltrated into the abaxial surface of fully expanded leaves (CITATION). Four to six infiltration sites were used per leaf. GFP- and RFP-expressing cells were detected with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 510 META; argon laser excitation wavelength, 488 nm [GFP] or 543 nm [RFP]). Transient expression of GFP or RFP fusion proteins in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells was performed with a model PDS-1000/He Biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad). Five micrograms of purified plasmids was coated with 0.6- to 1-μm gold particles, and bombardment was performed with the following parameters: 1100-p.s.i. rupture disc; 27-inch Hg vacuum; 6-cm distance from the stopping screen to the target tissues. After bombardment, onion epidermal tissue was incubated in MS medium at 25°C in darkness for at least 24 h. Cell plasmolysis was achieved by incubating onion skin pieces in 1 M sucrose solution for 10 min. Seedling roots of pip5k9-d, cinv1, and wild-type plants were harvested and frozen quickly in liquid nitrogen. RNA samples were processed as recommended by Affymetrix, including RNA extraction, converting to double-stranded cDNA, and synthesis of biotin-labeled copy RNA. Fifteen micrograms of biotin-labeled copy RNA was purified and fragmented into 35- to 300-nucleotide fragments and then hybridized with an Arabidopsis genome array (Affymetrix ATH1). The hybridization was performed with two biological replicates for each sample. After hybridization, arrays were scanned using an Agilent GeneArray scanner (Affymetrix G2500A). Microarray data were normalized using the Affymetrix Microarray Suit program (version 5.0). The algorithm absolute call flag was set to indicate the reliability of the data points according to P (present), M (marginal), and A (absent). Significant differences for each gene between the wild-type and pip5k9-d mutant plants, or the wild-type and cinv1 mutant plants, were examined using the Wilcoxon rank test of the Affymetrix Microarray Suit program (P < 0.01) and analysis of variance by fitting a mixed model in the MAANOVA package under R 1.8.0 for multiple testing (false discovery rate–corrected P < 0.05). Genes with the consensus significant difference in two independent samples were selected and listed. Annotations for the selected probe set identification were rechecked at the Affymetrix website. Invertase activities in plants were determined according to CITATION. A microcon (Millipore) was used to desalt supernatants, and the glucose amount was measured with the glucose assay kit (Sigma-Aldrich) during the assay. Enzymatic assay of purified proteins in vitro was performed according to CITATION. The reaction was performed in 0.05 M HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, and 0.001 M Na2EDTA, and the results were analyzed with the Enzyme Kinetics Module (SYSTAT software). Metabolites were analyzed essentially as described by CITATION. One hundred milligrams of seedlings or roots (fresh weight) was harvested and ground into a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. Seven hundred microliters of methanol was immediately added to the powder to stop enzymatic activity, and 50 μL of 0.2 ng/mL rabitol was then added. After centrifugation at 10,000g for 2 min, the supernatant was transferred to a tube and dried. For methoximation, 80 μL of methoxyamine hydrochloride in pyridine (20 mg/mL) was used at 30°C for 90 min. Afterward, 50 μL of N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyl-trifluoroacetamide was added, and the mixture was incubated at 37°C for 30 min. GC-MS was performed using an Agilent Network GC system 6890 N/Mass Selective Detector MS 5973. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: PIP5K9 (AJ810853), CINV1 (AM230708), PC (M20937), and PAL1 (L33677). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. Common Altered Genes under Deficiency of CINV1 and Enhanced PIP5K9. Supplemental Table 2. Altered Genes under Enhanced PIP5K9. Supplemental Table 3. Altered Genes under Deficiency of CINV1.
