!~ABS~! Copper (Cu) chaperones constitute a family of small Cu+-binding proteins required for Cu homeostasis in eukaryotes. The ATX1 family of Cu chaperones specifically delivers Cu to heavy metal P-type ATPases. The plant Arabidopsis thaliana expresses the ATX1-like Cu chaperone CCH, which exhibits a plant-specific carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) with unique structural properties. We show that CCH homologues from other higher plants contain CTDs with structural properties similar to Arabidopsis CCH. Furthermore, we identify a new ATX1-like Cu chaperone in Arabidopsis, AtATX1, which functionally complements yeast atx1Δ and sod1Δ associated phenotypes, and localizes to the cytosol of Arabidopsis cells. Interestingly, AtATX1, but not full-length CCH, interacts in vivo with the Arabidopsis RAN1 Cu-transporting P-type ATPase by yeast two-hybrid. We propose that higher plants express two types of ATX1-like Cu chaperones: the ATX1-type with a predominant function in Cu delivery to P-type ATPases, and the CCH-type with additional CTD-mediated plant-specific functions.
!~RES~! We have analyzed the distribution of ATX1-like sequences among photosynthetic organisms present in the databases, as compared to S. cerevisiae ATX1, including two cDNAs from O. sativa (OsATX1) and G. max (GmATX1), whose corresponding sequences have been deposited in the databases (Accession Nos. AF198626 and AF198627, respectively) (CITATION). Sequence analysis suggests that higher plant genomes, as opposed to the rest of eukaryotic organisms, possess two types of ATX1-like metallochaperones based on the absence or presence of an extra CTD when compared to yeast Atx1 (CITATION). Sequence comparison at the amino acid level among the plant proteins reveals an 87% identity at the amino-terminal domain (the ATX1-like portion of the proteins), while the identity drops down to 24% at the CTD. The lack of sequence similarity between the CTDs from different plant CCH proteins raises the question of its functional significance. Given that Arabidopsis CCH CTD possesses unusual characteristics including an extended conformation in solution and in the presence of anionic detergents, as well as altered SDS/PAGE mobility CITATION, we decided to analyze the CCH CTD properties from other higher plants including rice and soybean. Both CTDs fused to GST were separately expressed and purified in E. coli, and their electrophoretic mobility analyzed by SDS–PAGE gel. The CTDs from rice (6.8kDa) and soybean (6.1kDa) fused to GST (29kDa) migrated at the molecular weights expected for the respective monomeric fusion proteins (35.8 and 35.1kDa) (CITATION A). Strikingly, after releasing the CTDs by cleavage with factor-Xa, the G. max CCH CTD fractionated as two weak protein bands of an estimated molecular weight around 28 and 35kDa (CITATIONB). Furthermore, the O. sativa CTD polypeptide was barely observed in SDS–PAGE gels as a band of 35kDa (CITATIONB), although its presence was confirmed by HPLC and MALDI-TOF analysis (results not shown). The apparent molecular weight obtained from the electrophoretic mobilities (CITATIONA and B) differs from the molecular weights obtained by MALDI-TOF (results not shown), which are in close agreement with their expected molecular weight derived from the amino acid sequence. These results indicate that both rice and soybean CCH CTDs exhibit abnormal electrophoretic properties as previously shown for Arabidopsis CCH CTD CITATION. The rice and soybean CCH CTD conformation was further analyzed by CD spectroscopy in the absence or presence of 40% trifluorethanol (TFE) (CITATIONC). The far-UV CD spectra of the recombinant rice and, especially, soybean CTDs in the presence of TFE exhibited a strong negative ellipticity at 198nm (∼−10,000°cmdmole−1) as compared to their spectra in the absence of TFE, which is consistent with a disordered polypeptide structure. In addition, the rice and soybean CTDs show a stabilization of secondary structure at alkaline pH (data not shown), as indicated by an increase in the intensity of the negative peak at 198nm. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that the structural properties of Arabidopsis CCH CTD are conserved in other higher-plant CCH-like chaperones. The Arabidopsis genome contains a gene encoding a putative short Atx1 homologue, which we have named AtATX1 (MIPS code: At1g66240). To ascertain whether AtATX1 is a functional homologue of yeast Atx1, the Arabidopsis protein was expressed in atx1Δ and sod1Δ yeast mutants. Yeast ATX1 (ScATX1) and the Arabidopsis long member CCH were used as positive controls. Yeast atx1Δ mutants exhibit growth defects on iron-deficient conditions as a consequence of impaired Cu delivery to the multicopper-oxidase Fet3, which is essential for high-affinity iron uptake CITATION. We tested atx1Δ functional complementation by growth on media containing both the extracellular Cu chelator bathocuproine disulfonic acid or BCS, and the extracellular iron chelator bathophenantholine disulfonic acid or BPS (BPS/BCS), or on media containing the membrane permeable iron chelator ferrozine. AtATX1 fully complements the growth defect of yeast atx1Δ mutants on iron-deficient media (CITATION A). Yeast cells defective in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase Sod1 exhibit a growth defect in the presence of menadione, an agent that generates the formation of radical oxygen species, and are auxotrophic for lysine due to the oxidative damage of enzymes required for lysine biosynthesis CITATION. Yeast Atx1 was identified as a suppressor of sod1Δ-associated oxidative defects CITATION. Arabidopsis ATX1 fully complements the antioxidant properties of yeast Atx1, as shown by growth on lysine-defective and on menadione-containing media (CITATIONB). Taken together these results strongly suggest that AtATX1 is a functional homologue of yeast Atx1 Cu chaperone. We have previously shown that Arabidopsis CCH mRNA and protein levels increase during plant senescence and oxidative stress, and decrease by Cu treatment CITATION. To further analyze AtATX1 function in Arabidopsis as compared to CCH, we studied its response to these stresses. Both Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses indicate that AtATX1 mRNA levels increase by oxidative stress treatments and at senescence (CITATION, panels A and B). Whereas CCH is down-regulated by Cu treatment AtATX1 is not (CITATION, panel C). These results, together with previous data on CCH CITATION, show that both genes are induced by senescence and oxidative stress, but only CCH metallochaperone levels decrease by Cu treatment. In order to test AtATX1 subcellular localization, the coding sequence for full-length AtATX1 protein was fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP). AtATX1-GFP fusion protein was fully functional since it complemented the yeast atx1Δ and sod1Δ growth defects (data not shown). AtATX1-GFP was cloned in a transient expression vector under the control of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S constitutive promoter. Isolated Arabidopsis protoplasts transformed with AtATX1-GFP were analyzed for green and red fluorescence indicative of GFP and chlorophyll localization, respectively. A construct expressing GFP in the cytosol was used as a control. The pattern for the AtATX1-GFP fusion signal is very similar to the cytosolic control, as indicated by a GFP-like distribution pattern that is diffuse throughout the cell but absent from vacuoles, plastids and other discrete subcellular locations (CITATION ). These results strongly suggest that AtATX1 is a soluble protein that localizes to the cytosol of Arabidopsis cells. Biochemical and genetic studies in bacteria, yeast and mammals have established that Cu delivery to metal P-type ATPases occurs through specific interactions between the MBDs of the ATPase and a cytosolic ATX1-like Cu chaperone. We have recently shown that AtATX1 interacts by yeast two-hybrid with the Arabidopsis P-type ATPase HMA5, which is involved in Cu detoxification CITATION. To further characterize the pathway involved in Cu delivery to the secretory pathway, we ascertained whether RAN1 interacts in vivo with the Arabidopsis CCH and AtATX1 metallochaperones by using the yeast two-hybrid system. AtATX1, CCH and CCH lacking the CTD plant-specific domain (CCHΔ) were fused in frame to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD), and the amino-terminal metal binding domains (MBDs) of RAN1 were fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GBD). HIS3 and ADE2 genes, under the control of the GAL4-regulated promoters GAL1 and GAL2 respectively, were used as reporter genes for the yeast two-hybrid assay. As shown in CITATION , cells co-expressing the RAN1-MBDs and CCH did not grow in media without histidine (−His) or adenine (−Ade), which is indicative of a lack of interaction. Interestingly, cells co-expressing RAN1-MBDs with CCHΔ or ATX1 grow in the absence of histidine or adenine indicating a RAN1-chaperone interaction. These results demonstrate that RAN1 is able to interact with ATX1-like Cu chaperones in vivo and suggest a potential regulatory role for the CCH CTD present in higher plants.
!~MM~! Plant material and sequence analysis. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 plants were grown under a 16h light/8h dark cycle on soil at 23°C. For growth on agar media, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium including 3% sucrose and 0.4% agarose. TAIR and MIPS databases suggest AtATX1 to be a 106 amino acid protein with a probable amino terminal signal sequence of 30 amino acids length, or alternatively a shorter 76 amino acid protein. In this report a full-length 106 amino acid AtATX1 has been used for expression in Arabidopsis, while a 76 amino acid AtATX1 has been used for expression in yeast and for sequence alignments. Yeast complementation. The entire coding regions of S. cerevisiae ATX1, and Arabidopsis CCH, AtATX1 and AtATX1-GFP were cloned into p426GPD yeast vector. Yeast atx1Δ (MATa, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0, atx1::KanMX4) and sod1Δ (MATa, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0, sod1::KanMX4) mutant strains (Research Genomics) were used for complementation. Expression of green fluorescent reporter protein in isolated Arabidopsis protoplasts. Protoplasts were isolated and transformed essentially as previously described CITATION. A confocal laser-scanning microscope (FVX-IHRT Fluoview Confocal LSM, Olympus, Melville, NY, USA) with Kr/Ar laser excitation (488nm) was used to monitor green fluorescence (530nm) and red chlorophyll auto fluorescence (660nm). Image captures and processing were by Fluoview software (Olympus). Images were captured at 90× magnification at a scan speed of 0.45s for 256×256 pixel area. Scan slices were 1.0μm thick. Yeast two-hybrid assays. Arabidopsis AtATX1 coding sequence was cloned into the pGADT7 plasmid generating pGAD-ATX1 plasmid. The RAN1 coding region encoding the 289 amino-terminal amino acids containing the two MBDs was cloned into the pGBKT7 plasmid generating pGBK-RAN1 plasmid. AH109 cells cotransformed with GAD and GBK based plasmids (Matchmaker, BD Biosciences) were assayed for growth. Otherwise, yeast two-hybrid assays were performed as previously described CITATION. Expression and purification of recombinant proteins. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion constructs were created by subcloning the appropriate fragments of the CCH cDNA into the pGEX-5X vector (Pharmacia Inc.). The insert DNA for construction of GST-Arabidopsis CTD was prepared as described previously CITATION. To construct the GST-rice and soybean CTD fusions, the corresponding sequences were amplified by PCR using the primer sets: 5′-GCTCCGGATCCCGTGGGAGGCTGCAGAAGCCGC-3′ and 3′-GGCCGGTTCCGACTACGAACTGCTTAAGGCCTG-5′ for Oryza sativa, and 5′-GCTCCGGATCCCGTGGGTGGATGAAGCACCAC-3′ and 3′-CAACTTTGACAACGAATTCCGGCTTAAGGCCTG-5′ for Glycine max, and cloned into pGEX-5X. Expression in Escherichia coli, purification and removal of the GST tag were performed as indicated CITATION. All purified recombinant proteins were analyzed for purity and integrity by SDS–PAGE. Identity was confirmed by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry.
