!~ABS~! Cys2/His2-type zinc finger proteins, which contain the EAR transcriptional repressor domain, are thought to play a key role in regulating the defense response of plants to biotic and abiotic stress conditions. Although constitutive expression of several of these proteins was shown to enhance the tolerance of transgenic plants to abiotic stress, it is not clear whether the EAR-motif of these proteins is involved in this function. In addition, it is not clear whether suppression of plant growth, induced in transgenic plants by different Cys2/His2 EAR-containing proteins, is mediated by the EAR-domain. Here we report that transgenic Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing the Cys2/His2 zinc finger protein Zat7 have suppressed growth and are more tolerant to salinity stress. A deletion or a mutation of the EAR-motif of Zat7 abolishes salinity tolerance without affecting growth suppression. These results demonstrate that the EAR-motif of Zat7 is directly involved in enhancing the tolerance of transgenic plants to salinity stress. In contrast, the EAR-motif appears not to be involved in suppressing the growth of transgenic plants. Further analysis of Zat7 using RNAi lines suggests that Zat7 functions in Arabidopsis to suppress a repressor of defense responses. A yeast two-hybrid analysis identified putative interactors of Zat7 and the EAR-domain, including WRKY70 and HASTY, a protein involved in miRNA transport. Our findings demonstrate that the EAR-domain of Cys2/His2-type zinc finger proteins plays a key role in the defense response of Arabidopsis to abiotic stresses. 
!~RES~! Expression of Zat7 in Arabidopsis and Phenotype of Transgenic Plants with Constitutive Expression of Zat7—Transcripts encoding at least four different members of the Zat protein family show broad response to biotic and abiotic stresses (Zat6, 10, 11, and 12; Ref 13). In contrast, the expression of Zat7 appears to be more specific, with enhanced expression mainly in roots during salinity stress (supplemental Fig. S1A, generated from transcriptome profiling data available at Ref. 18). In contrast to the early and transient expression of Zat12 during stress (9, 17), the expression of Zat7 in Arabidopsis roots subjected to salinity stress is enhanced at 6, 12, and 24 h, suggesting that Zat7 functions relatively late during salinity stress (supplemental Fig. S1B). Expression of Zat7 was enhanced at concentrations as low as 50 mm NaCl (Fig. 1A). Expression of Zat7 was previously reported to be enhanced in Arabidopsis plants subjected to heat stress (23), as well as in knock-out Apx1 plants grown under controlled growth conditions (16, 17), suggesting that Zat7 expression could also be associated with heat or hydrogen peroxide stress.  In a previous report we expressed Zat7 in Arabidopsis thaliana cv. Columbia and found that expression of Zat7 resulted in growth suppression of transgenic plants (7). Different studies on the expression of Zat12 in transgenic plants produced conflicting reports on the suppression of growth induced by this protein in transgenic plants (7-9). The discrepancies in phenotypes were linked to Zat12 expression level in the different plants, as well as to the use of different cultivars (7, 8). To test whether Zat7 expression would also induce growth suppression in A. thaliana cv Landsberg erecta (Ler), used in this study, we generated transgenic Ler lines with different levels of Zat7 expression. As shown in Fig. 1B, high level of Zat7 expression resulted in growth suppression. Constitutive expression of Zat7, therefore, could cause growth suppression in Columbia as well as in Landsberg erecta cultivars.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Constitutive expression of different Zat proteins was shown to result in the enhanced expression of transcripts encoding different regulatory and defense proteins in transgenic plants (8, 9, 13). The enhanced expression of Zat7 in response to salinity stress (Fig. 1A and supplemental Fig. S1), prompted us to test whether Zat7 expression in transgenic plants, grown under controlled conditions, is also associated with the elevated expression of different defense transcripts involved in the response of plants to salinity stress. As shown in Fig. 1C, the expression of different transcripts associated with salinity tolerance in plants (27, 28) was elevated in transgenic plants expressing Zat7, grown under controlled conditions.  Mutational Analysis of the EAR-motif of Zat7—To perform functional characterization of the EAR-motif of Zat7 we generated transgenic lines expressing two different variants of Zat7: a deletion of the C-terminal 25 amino acids region that contains the EAR-motif (Zat7Δ), and a site-specific mutagenesis converting the LDLDL EAR-motif at position 144-148 to LAAAL at the same position (144-148; Zat7m). As shown in Fig. 2 and supplemental Fig. S2, deletion or mutation of the EAR-domain had no significant effect on the growth suppression phenotype of Zat7. In contrast, expression of defense transcripts, associated with salinity tolerance, was not enhanced in transgenic plants with constitutive expression of Zat7Δ or Zat7m (Fig. 2D). This result indicated that the EAR-motif of Zat7 is not involved in suppression of plant growth in transgenic plants. The EAR-motif of Zat7 could, however, be involved in the activation of defense responses. The results shown in Fig. 2 also suggest that a deletion or a mutation of the EAR-motif does not result in a significant decrease in Zat7 stability because plants with similar expression levels of Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m showed a similar degree of growth suppression.  Salinity Tolerance of Transgenic Plants Expressing Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m—To test whether the EAR-motif of Zat7 is involved in the defense response of Arabidopsis to salinity stress, we subjected wild-type plants (WT) and transgenic plants expressing Zat7 (Zat7), or Zat7 with altered EAR-motif (Zat7Δ or Zat7m) to salinity stress. As shown in Fig. 3A, seedlings of transgenic plants expressing Zat7 were more tolerant to salinity stress than seedlings of wild type plants. In contrast, seedlings of transgenic plants expressing Zat7m or Zat7Δ were more susceptible to salinity stress than wild-type plants. As shown in Fig. 3, B and C, similar results were found with plants grown in soil. Thus, compared with wild-type plants, transgenic plants expressing Zat7 were more tolerant, and transgenic plants expressing Zat7m or Zat7Δ were more susceptible to salinity stress.  The enhanced sensitivity of transgenic plants expressing Zat7m or Zat7Δ to salinity stress could indicate that Zat7 protein, which lacks a functional EAR-motif (i.e. Zat7m or Zat7Δ), functions in transgenic plants as dominant-negative suppressor of the endogenous Zat7 protein. Thus, it could compete with the endogenous Zat7 protein for protein, RNA, or DNA interactions, but it lacks the capability to activate defenses, thus causing more susceptibility.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Enhanced Sensitivity of Zat7-RNAi Lines to Salinity Stress—The results obtained with transgenic plants expressing Zat7m and Zat7Δ subjected to salinity stress (Fig. 3) suggested that suppression of Zat7 function in plants will result in enhanced sensitivity to salinity stress. To further test this possibility we generated RNAi lines to Zat7. Two different sets of lines were generated: Zat7-RNAi3′, in which the RNA repeat was directed at the 3′-part of the cDNA, and Zat7-RNAi5′, in which the RNA repeat was directed at the 5′ part of the cDNA (Fig. 4A). RNA blot analysis of RNAi lines revealed that despite the use of a 35S promoter, no accumulation of Zat7 RNA was observed in plants grown under controlled conditions (Fig. 4A). Expression of Zat7 was suppressed to 10-20% that of wild type in Zat7-RNAi3′ lines during stress, and expression of Zat7 was suppressed to 5% that of wild type in Zat7-RNAi5′ during stress (not shown). Expression of Zat8 (the closest homolog of Zat7) was unchanged in Zat7-RNAi3′ lines, but was 70% that of wild type in Zat7-RNAi5′ (not shown). No growth suppression was observed in 5′ or 3′ Zat7-RNAi lines (Fig. 4A).    [[FIGURE]] As shown in Fig. 4, B and C, seedlings of 3′ or 5′ RNAi lines for Zat7 were more sensitive to salinity stress. This sensitivity was mainly observed in 3-5 day-old seedlings subjected to 100 mm NaCl. The results shown in Figs. 3 and 4 suggest that suppression of Zat7 function in plants could result in enhanced susceptibility to salinity stress.  Identifying Putative Interactors of Zat7—Our mutational analysis of the EAR-motif of Zat7 suggested that this domain plays a key role in the defense response of Arabidopsis to salinity stress (Fig. 3). This observation prompted us to test what other proteins in Arabidopsis interact with Zat7 and its EAR-domain. To this end we performed a yeast two-hybrid analysis of Zat7 using, as two independent baits, the full-length clone of Zat7, as well as a clone containing the last 25 amino acids of Zat7 that includes the EAR-motif. As prey, we used a library constructed from Arabidopsis seedlings subjected to different abiotic stresses. As shown in Table 1 and supplemental Table S1, several different proteins were found to interact in this system with both the full-length clone and the last 25 amino acids of Zat7. Taking into consideration parameters such as predicted subcellular localization, transcript expression in roots during salinity stress, and proteins that typically interact with the bait in this system (i.e. yeast two-hybrid artifacts), nine proteins were identified as potentially interacting with the EAR-domain (Table 1). All interactors were validated by directed interaction assays (see example in Fig. 5A), and β-galactosidase reporter activity (see example in supplemental Fig. S3). Of the nine interactors, a protein involved in miRNA transport (HASTY; Ref. 29), WRKY70 (30), and a protein kinase appear to be possible candidates involved in signal transduction events associated with Zat7 function (Table 1, Fig. 5A). In contrast to the interaction of Zat7 with WRKY70 and HASTY (Table 1, Fig. 5A), Zat7Δ or Zat7m did not interact with WRKY70 or HASTY in a directed yeast two-hybrid interaction assay (supplemental Figs. S4 and S5). Interestingly, constitutive expression of Zat7, but not Zat7m or Zat7Δ, resulted in enhanced expression of WRKY70 (Figs. 1C and 2D).    [[TABLE]] WRKY70, Zat7, and HASTY were reported to be co-expressed in knock-out Apx1 (KO-Apx1) plants grown under controlled conditions (Table 1; Refs. 16 and 17). These findings could suggest that a pathway leading to enhanced salinity tolerance is activated in KO-Apx1 plants and that this pathway involves WRKY70, Zat7, and HASTY. To test whether the co-expression of these transcripts in KO-Apx1 plants is associated with enhanced tolerance to salinity stress, we subjected KO-Apx1 and wild-type plants to the same salinity stress assays shown in Fig. 3. Surprisingly, as shown in Fig. 5B, KO-Apx1 plants were significantly more tolerant to salinity stress than wild-type plants.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Tolerance of Transgenic Plants That Constitutively Express Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m to Cold and Osmotic Stress—The EAR-domain is found in several different C2H2 zinc finger proteins that are thought to be involved in regulating the response of plants to abiotic stress conditions (1). However, the specificity and the degree of cooperation between different Zat proteins such as Zat10, Zat12, and Zat7 are unclear at present. The availability of transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m prompted us to test how these lines would behave in response to abiotic stresses other than salinity, and whether or not the Zat7Δ or Zat7m lines would suppress the tolerance of plants to these stresses (similar to their effect on the tolerance of plants to salinity stress; Fig. 3). To this end we tested the tolerance of transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m to osmotic, cold, and heat stresses.  As shown in Fig. 6A, transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7 were more tolerant to cold stress. Transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7Δ or Zat7m were not, however, more susceptible to cold. In contrast, transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7 were more susceptible to osmotic stress (Fig. 6B). Although transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7Δ or Zat7m were also more susceptible to osmotic stress, they appear to be less susceptible to this stress than transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7 (Fig. 6B). The response of transgenic plants that constitutively express Zat7, Zat7Δ, or Zat7m to heat stress was not significantly different from that of wild type (not shown). The results presented in Figs. 3 and 6, as well as those reported for Zat12 by Davletova et al. (9), provide an initial glimpse into the complex nature of the C2H2-EAR-domain zinc finger network and its role in regulating abiotic stress responses. 
!~MM~! For the Zat7-RNAi3′ construct, a 115-bp fragment corresponding to 38 bp of the Zat7 (At3g46090) coding sequence and 77 bp of the 3′-UTR was PCR-amplified from genomic DNA with ZAT7IR-1 (5′-CTCGAGGGATCCGGAAGTTGGAGTTGGGAAGA-3′) and ZAT7IR-2 (5′-GGTACCATCGATAATATTCACATCGATCGGTA-3′) primers and cloned into pCRScript (Stratagene). For the Zat7-RNAi5′ construct, a 120-bp fragment corresponding to coding sequence at the 5′-end of Zat7 was PCR-amplified from genomic DNA with ZAT7IR-3 (5′-CTCGAGGGATCCATGGTTGCGAGAAGTGAGGA-3′) and ZAT7IR-4 (5′-GGTACCATCGATGAAAACACGTTCATCTCCCC-3′) primers and cloned into pCRScript (Stratagene). After verification of the sequence, each of these Zat7 fragments was then subcloned into pHannibal in the sense and antisense directions (14). The entire inverted repeat construct including the 35S promoter was digested from pHannibal and subcloned into pART27 as a NotI fragment. The 35S::ZAT7-3′IR/pART27 and 35S::ZAT7-5′IR/pART27 plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium ASE by electroporation.  For the 35S::Zat7 construct, the Zat7 cDNA was amplified from genomic DNA using ZAT7-3 (5′-CCTAGAAGTCACTAAGTCGATTCAAAATGGTT-3′) and ZAT7-2 (5′-ATTGTATCAAAATAATATTCACAT-3′) and cloned into pCRScript (Stratagene). After verification of the sequence, the Zat7 cDNA was subcloned as a XhoI/NotI fragment into 35SpBARN (15). For the 35S::Zat7Δ construct, Zat7 was amplified from genomic DNA using ZAT7-3 and ZAT7-7 (5′-TTAACAAGCCACTCTCTTCCCAC-3′) and cloned into pCRScript. After verification of the sequence, Zat7Δ was subcloned as a XhoI/NotI fragment into 35SpBARN. The resulting plasmid was transformed into Agrobacterium strain GV3101. 35S::Zat7m was made using overlap extension PCR. In the first round of PCR, two partially overlapping pieces of Zat7 were amplified using ZAT7-3 and ZAT7-9 (5′-ATCTAAGGCCGCAGCCAAACAAGCCACTCTCTTCC-3′) for one piece and ZAT7-8 (5′-TGTTTGGCTGCGGCCTTAGATTCGATGGAGAGTTT-3′) and ZAT7-2 for the other piece. A second round of PCR was carried out with these two PCR products and the outer primers (ZAT7-3 and ZAT7-2). After verification of the sequence, Zat7m was subcloned as a XhoI/NotI fragment into 35SpBARN. The resulting plasmid was transformed into Agrobacterium strain EHA105.  Arabidopsis Ler plants were transformed using the floral dip method, and transformants were selected on Gamborg's B5 medium supplemented with the herbicide Basta. Plants were grown in soil at 21-22 °C, constant light, 100 μmol m-2 s-1 and watered with 1× Peters 20-20-20 solution. Transgenic plants were tested by RNA blot analysis as previously described (7, 9). Knock-out Apx1 plants were obtained and analyzed as previously described (16).  RNA was isolated and analyzed by RNA blots as previously described (17). Analysis of microarray data (18), was performed as previously described (19). Positively interacting prey clones from yeast two-hybrid screens were sequenced, and the insert sequences were analyzed using the MacVector®/AssemblyLIGN™ sequence analysis programs (Accelrys, San Diego, CA). BLAST searches were performed at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) server (20). InterPro scan searches were performed using the InterPro Scan server (21). The WoLF protein subcellular localization prediction (PSORT) software was used to predict putative protein subcellular localization (22).  For the analysis of stress-tolerance, seeds of wild type and three independent 35S::Zat7, Zat7m, Zat7Δ, Zat7-RNAi3′, and Zat7-RNAi5′ lines were surface-sterilized with bleach and placed in rows on 1% agar plates (0.5× MS medium), containing different concentrations of NaCl or sorbitol as previously described (7, 9). Plates were placed at 4 °C for 48 h and maintained vertically in a growth chamber for 5 days (21-22 °C, constant light, 100 μmol m-2 s-1). Root length was scored at 3, 4, and 5 days after vernalization. Four- or five-day-old seedlings grown on 0.5× MS agar plates were also subjected to heat (38 °C) or cold stress (4 °C) for different times, allowed to recover for 24 h and analyzed (9).  For soil stress experiments, 7-day-old seedlings of wild type and three independent 35S::Zat7, Zat7m, Zat7Δ lines were transferred to vermiculite, watered for 5 days with 0.1-0.5× Peter's fertilizer 20-20-20 solution and subjected to salinity stress by watering with 0, 50, 75, 100, or 150 mm NaCl prepared in 0.1-0.5× Peter's fertilizer 20-20-20 solution for 20 days. Plants were then photographed and sampled for RNA blot analysis. All experiments were performed with 3-5 technical replications, each containing 15-30 seedlings or plants per line, and repeated at least 3 times. Statistical analysis was performed as described in Ref. 23.  Bait Construction—The full-length ZAT7 and the last 25 amino acids were cloned into the pENTR vector with Gateway™ recombination sites. A Gateway™ cassette was introduced into the yeast two-hybrid vector pXDGATCY86 containing cycloheximide-sensitive gene (CYHS) (24). Recombination between pENTR vectors and destination vectors were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). After confirming that baits were in-frame with the DNA binding domain, constructs were transformed into MaV204K yeast strain (25) (MAT α, leu2-3,112; trp1-901; his3 Δ200; ade2-101; cyh2R; can1R; gal4 Δ; gal80 Δ; GAL1::lacZ; HIS3UASGAL1::HIS3@LYS2; SPAL10::URA3) as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook. Baits were checked for autoactivation of the reporter genes by growth on synthetic dropout (SD) -His/-Trp supplemented with 0, 1, 5, 7, 10, and 20 mm 3-AT (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole).  Construction of the Yeast Prey Library—The Matchmaker™ Library Construction and Screening kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA) was used to construct a prey library in the pGADT7-Rec vector according to manufacturer's instructions. A mixture of total RNA isolated from 14-day-old Arabidopsis Col-0 seedlings exposed to various treatments including NaCl (150 mm), sorbitol (440 mm), 4 °C, 42 °C, high light (>300 μE/m2/sec), darkness, salicylic acid (100 μm), ABA (100 μm), benzylaminopurine (100 μm), methyl jasmonate (100 μm), indole acetic acid (100 μm), gibberellic acid (100 μm), paraquat (10 μm), wounding (with a needle), 2,4-D (100 μm), brassinolide (100 μm), hydrogen peroxide (20 mm), desiccation (RT, 60% RH), and cell suspension (7-day-old cultures), control and water deficit-stressed roots, flowers, and siliques was used. Tissues for RNA extraction were pooled from samples collected 30, 60, 90, and 120 min after the start of each treatment. The cDNA prey library was introduced into AH109 yeast cells (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1) by in vivo recombination.  Yeast Two-hybrid Screening—Bait strains were mated with the prey library according to manufacturer's recommendations, followed by selection of interacting partners on solid SD medium lacking Ade, His, Trp, and Leu supplemented with 10 mm 3-AT. Positive and negative controls for interaction and mating were performed following the manufacturer's recommendations. Positive interactions grew on solid SD media were selected three times on SD -Ade/-His/-Trp/-Leu supplemented with 10 mm 3-AT. Bait plasmid was cured from positive clones that passed three rounds of selection by adding 1 μg/ml of cycloheximide and grown overnight with shaking. Curing of bait plasmids was confirmed by PCR followed by plasmid preparation from cured clones containing only prey plasmids. Plasmids were then amplified from yeast using Rolling Circle Amplification (RCA) with the TempliPhi 100 Amplification kit (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp., Piscataway, NJ) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The RCA products were used to transform yeast strains containing specific baits to verify interaction (26). Clones containing only prey were tested for autoactivated by growing them on SD: -Leu/His and 10 mm 3-AT for 4 days. Preys capable of autoactivation of the reporter gene were excluded, and verified clones were sequenced.  Validation and β-Galactosidase Assays—Yeast stains with WRKY or HASTY genes as preys were mated one-on-one in parallel against the yeast expressing the full-length Zat7 bait and the last 25 amino acids of Zat7 as bait as well as mating between the empty prey vector as a negative control. AH109 strain harboring the pGADT7-RecT vector was mated with the MaV204K strain harboring the pGBKT7-53 vector as a positive interaction control. Mating was performed in 1:1 ratios between each bait and prey pairs on 2× YPAD medium for 24 h followed by plating on SD medium lacks Ade, His, Trp, and Leu supplemented with 10 mm 3-AT. Growth assays were performed in positive interaction pairs as well as empty bait vector grown on SD medium lacking Ade, His, Trp, and Leu plus 10 mm 3-AT for 16 h. A600 was measured for three independent 100-μl cultures and then assayed for β-galactosidase activity using the yeast β-galactosidase assay kit (cat. 75768; Pierce Biotechnology, Inc.) following the manufacturer's instructions. A600 and A420 were measured using the PerkinElmer Victor 3v multiplate reader. The β-galactosidase activity was calculated using the equation: β-galactosidase activity = 1000 × A420/T × V × A600 where T is time (in minutes) of incubation and V is volume of cells (ml) used in the assay. 
