!~ABS~! Sugar compartmentation into vacuoles of higher plants is a very important physiological process, providing extra space for transient and long-term sugar storage and contributing to the osmoregulation of cell turgor and shape. Despite the long-standing knowledge of this subcellular sugar partitioning, the proteins responsible for these transport steps have remained unknown. We have identified a gene family in Arabidopsis consisting of three members homologous to known sugar transporters. One member of this family, Arabidopsis thaliana vacuolar glucose transporter 1 (AtVGT1), was localized to the vacuolar membrane. Moreover, we provide evidence for transport activity of a tonoplast sugar transporter based on its functional expression in bakers' yeast and uptake studies in isolated yeast vacuoles. Analyses of Atvgt1 mutant lines indicate an important function of this vacuolar glucose transporter during developmental processes like seed germination and flowering.
!~RES~! Our in silico analyses revealed a high degree of sequence homology to the known AtSTP gene family of monosaccharide transporters in Arabidopsis for three previously unknown ORFs: At3g03090, At5g17010, and At5g59250. We generated the corresponding cDNAs comprising the entire ORFs by RT-PCR from flowers in the case of At3g03090 and whole-plant mRNA in the cases of At5g17010 and At5g59250. Sequence determination confirmed the predicted exon/intron structure for all three genes with 13 introns at conserved positions and characterized them as a distinct gene family within the Arabidopsis monosaccharide transporter-like superfamily (www.arabidopsis.org/info/genefamily/genefamily.html). At3g03090 and At5g17010 show the highest degree of protein sequence conservation (71% similarity and 62% identity), whereas At5g59250, the most distant member of this family, shares only 60% (46%) and 49% (36%) similar (identical) amino acids with At3g03090 and At5g17010, respectively. Hydropathy analyses of the protein sequences predict 12 transmembrane helices for the newly identified hexose transporter homologs. In the current study, we focus on the characterization of one of the Arabidopsis genes, At3g03090 (AtVGT1). Because of its homology to known monosaccharide transporters, AtVGT1 was tested for the ability to complement a hexose-transport-deficient yeast mutant EBY.VW4000 (CITATION). Whereas the expression of some of the known Arabidopsis hexose transporters could restore growth of this yeast mutant on glucose (CITATION, CITATION), expression of At3g03090 did not complement the hexose-transport-deficient null mutant (data not shown). Therefore, to verify expression and to determine a possible subcellular localization, a GFP-tagged version of the AtVGT1 gene was expressed in this yeast strain. As shown in FIG-REF, GFP fluorescence was not seen in the plasma membrane but rather in internal structures strongly resembling vacuoles (FIG-REF A). When we then isolated vacuoles from the AtVGT1/GFP-expressing yeast strain, the fusion protein was clearly confined to the vacuolar membrane, as shown by the GFP fluorescence (FIG-REF B). [[FIGURE]] The tonoplast localization of the GFP fusion protein observed in transgenic yeast lead us to investigate the subcellular localization of the At3g03090 gene product in Arabidopsis. To this end, we transiently expressed a GFP fusion in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal microscopy allowed a clear assignment of the fusion protein to the tonoplast (FIG-REF C and D), most obvious in the regions where chloroplasts are seen (FIG-REF D, white arrows). Moreover, after protoplast lysis by mild osmotic shock, GFP fluorescence was seen only in the membrane of the remaining intact vacuoles (FIG-REF E and F), reconfirming the vacuolar localization of AtVGT1 in planta. To investigate the transport properties of AtVGT1, we again used bakers yeast as a heterologous expression system and isolated vacuoles for transport assays. To first test the functionality of the isolated vacuoles, we verified uptake competence for amino acids as described by Ohsumi and Anraku (CITATION). ATP-dependent [14C]lysine uptake demonstrated proper function of the vacuolar ATPase (data not shown). These vacuoles were then further tested for glucose-uptake activity. Whereas no glucose-uptake was detected in the control strain expressing AtVGT1 in antisense (SAY114as), vacuoles of the AtVGT1-expressing strain SAY114s showed a time-dependent accumulation of 14C-labeled glucose (FIG-REF A). Furthermore, omitting ATP in the reaction-mix completely abolished glucose uptake, strongly suggesting the presence of an energy-dependent transport mechanism that would allow accumulation of the substrate against a concentration gradient. We further tested other hexoses and sugar alcohols, which are known to accumulate in vacuoles under certain conditions, and the pentose xylose. As seen in FIG-REF B, none of the other sugars was taken up by SAY114s vacuoles except fructose, which is also transported but only to 42% of the glucose transport rate. Fructose is a sugar also found in plant vacuoles in appreciable concentrations. Finally, concentration-dependent rates for AtVGT1-mediated glucose uptake were determined, and a K m of 3.7 mM was calculated from the Lineweaver–Burk plot (FIG-REF B Inset). Because of the demonstrated vacuolar localization and the described transport properties, we named the transporter AtVGT1. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the expression profile of the vacuolar glucose transporter gene that we identified, we generated transgenic reporter plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under the control of the AtVGT1 promoter. Analysis of the reporter plants revealed AtVGT1 promoter activity only in anthers, where it was restricted to pollen grains (FIG-REF A Inset). RT-PCR experiments reconfirmed the gene's high rate of expression in flowers. However, using this method we also were able to detect the AtVGT1 transcript in leaves and stems with lower but significant abundance, except in roots (FIG-REF B). To obtain an estimate of the relative AtVGT1 expression levels in other tissues, the Genevestigator Ar. thaliana Microarray Database and Analysis Toolbox (ETH, Zurich, Switzerland) (CITATION) was queried. According to this database, AtVGT1 mRNA accumulates to significant levels in all developmental stages and all organs, except in roots. Higher AtVGT1 transcript levels are found in the shoot apex and in seeds. We conclude that AtVGT1 is expressed at low levels in all above-ground tissues and particularly strongly in pollen. [[FIGURE]] To assess the physiological importance of AtVGT1 transport function, we analyzed T-DNA insertion mutants obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Center (FIG-REF A). For two lines, SALK_000988 (insertion at position −1, 5′UTR) and SAIL_669_D03 (insertion at position +2762, intron 9), homozygousity of the T-DNA insertion and absence of AtVGT1 transcript were verified by PCR analyses (FIG-REF B and C). In the SALK_000988 line, the T-DNA insertion was detected by a specific PCR product (FIG-REF B, lane 3), but in contrast to the wild-type control (FIG-REF B, lane 2) no PCR product was obtained through the use of primers spanning the insertion site because of the size of the T-DNA (FIG-REF B, lane 4). The lack of AtVGT1 transcript in the SAIL_669_D03 line was demonstrated by RT-PCR (FIG-REF C). Because AtVGT1 is strongly expressed in flowers and shows above-average expression levels in the shoot apex, we particularly examined a possible influence of the Atvgt1 knockout on flowering. As shown in FIG-REF, eliminating AtVGT1 transport function leads to a drastic delay in flowering. Under long-day conditions, wild-type plants started to grow primary shoots 21–26 days after germination. In contrast, under identical conditions Atvgt1 mutant lines did not start bolting until 30–40 days after germination (FIG-REF A). However, this drastic delay in bolting did not lead to a complete absence of flowering because all Atvgt1 mutant plants eventually produced shoots with flowers and seeds comparable with those produced by wild-type. In addition to this delayed flowering phenotype, we found that ≈20% of the Atvgt1 mutant seeds did not germinate, indicating a function for AtVGT1 also during processes like seed development and/or germination. The observed mutant phenotypes support a model in which vacuolar sugar accumulation is required for osmotic adjustment and turgor increase during developmental processes like seed germination and flowering. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Escherichia coli strain DH5α (CITATION) was used for cloning. Heterologous expression was performed in S. cerevisiae strain EBY.VW4000 (provided by E. Boles, University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany) (CITATION). Yeast transformation was as described (CITATION). Ar. thaliana Col-0 was grown in a greenhouse in potting soil or on agar medium in growth chambers under a 16-h light/8-h dark regime at 22°C and 55% relative humidity. Transformations of Ar. thaliana were performed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101 (CITATION). A 1,522-bp PCR fragment containing the complete AtVGT1 coding sequence was amplified from flower-specific cDNA by using primers AtXYL1c −15f (CAA GCT TCA ATT GCC ATG GGG TTT GAT) and AtXYL1c +1522r (GAG TCA ATT GTT AGA GAC ATT TGG CTT CAA TTT C), cloned into pGEM-T easy (pSA109), and sequenced. The AtVGT1 cDNA fragment from pSA109 was ligated into the unique EcoRI site of the S. cerevisiae/E. coli shuttle vector NEV-E (CITATION), in both sense and antisense orientation, yielding constructs pSA114s and pSA114as, respectively. Both constructs were then used to transform the hexose transporter-deficient S. cerevisiae strain EBY.VW4000 (CITATION), yielding strains SAY114s and SAY114as. Transport tests were performed with isolated vacuoles from transgenic yeasts. To isolate yeast vacuoles, a modified protocol of Ohsumi and Anraku (CITATION) was used. In brief, yeast cells were grown to OD600 of 0.5–1. Cells were harvested at 4,500 × g for 5 min, washed twice with distilled water, and resuspended in 30 ml of spheroplasting buffer [1 M sorbitol containing 80 units of zymolyase dissolved in 500 μl of 50 mM Tris·HCl (pH 7.5), 1 mM EDTA, 50% glycerol]. After incubation at 29°C for 1 h, spheroplasts were harvested by centrifugation (2,200 × g for 5 min), washed twice with 1 M sorbitol and resuspended in buffer A (10 mM Mes-Tris, pH 6.9/0.1 mM MgCl2/12% Ficoll). Spheroplast lysis was further improved by using a dounce homogenizer. Cell debris was removed by centrifuging the homogenate (2,200 × g for 10 min). The supernatant (10 ml) was overlayered with fresh buffer A (20 ml) and centrifuged for 1 h at 60,000 × g (swing-out rotor). Floating vacuoles were harvested from the surface and resuspended in 2× buffer C (20 mM Mes-Tris, pH 7.9/5 mM MgCl2/25 mM KCl). For transport assays with isolated yeast vacuoles, the standard reaction (100 μl) consisted of 50 μg of vacuolar protein, 20 mM Mes-Tris (pH 7.9), 4 mM MgCl2, 4 mM ATP, 1 mM cold substrate, and 0.1 μCi of 14C-labeled substrate. This reaction mixture was incubated at 29°C for 5 min without substrate. The transport assay process was started by adding the substrate and stopped by diluting the mixture with 2 ml of ice-cold 2× buffer C. Vacuoles were quickly recovered on a nitrocellulose filter (0.2 μm pore size) and washed with 2 ml of cold 2× buffer C. The radioactivity was measured in a scintillation counter by adding the nitrocellulose filter to 4 ml of scintillation mixture. A 1,939-bp promoter fragment from Arabidopsis genomic DNA was amplified by PCR with primers AtXYL1g −1876f(SphI) (GAT GTT GGA AGC ATG CAT ATA TGG) and AtXYL1g +66r (CGA TAA TGA GAA AAG CGA AAC C) and then digested with SphI and NcoI restriction enzymes. The resulting 1,816-bp SphI/NcoI fragment was ligated into the vector pAF6, which is a pUC19-based plasmid that harbors the GUS reporter gene (CITATION), and sequenced, yielding construct pSA103. A 3.15-kb XmaI/EcoRI fragment comprising the AtVGT1 promoter followed by the GUS gene and the Nos terminator was cloned into the plant vector pGPTV-BAR (CITATION), yielding pSA104. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by floral dip using Ag. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION), which harbors the construct pSA104 (CITATION). Transformation of Arabidopsis resulted in 13 independent Basta-resistant transformants, and reporter gene activity was studied in all of these plants in the T1 generation. RT-PCRs were performed by using total RNA from different tissues and AtVGT1-specific primers AtXYL1g +2326f (GGG ACA AGG AAA TGG GGA GAA TC) and AtXYL1g +3052r (CGC TAA CAC CAC AAA GAA GTA A) or Actin2-specific primers AtACT2g +846f (ATT CAG ATG CCC AGA AGT CTT GTT) and AtACT2g +1295r (GAAACATTTTCTGTGAACGATTCCT), yielding 407- and 362-bp products, respectively. For transient expression of AtVGT1–GFP fusions, the AtVGT1 coding sequence was PCR-amplified with the AtXYL1c −20f (CAT ACC AAG CTT CCG TAG CC) and AtXYL1c +1526r (AGA TGA GTA ACC ATG GAG AGA CAT TTG) and inserted into the unique NcoI-cloning site of pSO35e (a pUC19-based plasmid that harbors the GFP reporter gene). With the resulting plasmid pSA119, Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed by polyethylene glycol transformation modified according to the methods of Abel and Theologis (CITATION), and AtVGT1-GFP expression was monitored by confocal microscopy. For Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines, the insertion site was reconfirmed and lines with a homozygous T-DNA insertion were identified. For SALK_000988 insertion lines, the T-DNA insertion was verified by genomic PCR with the T-DNA-specific primer LBa1 (CGA TGG CCC ACT ACG TGA ACC AT) and AtXYL1g +408r (CCT TTT CAG CAG TAA TCC CAC C). The insertion was localized in the 5′ UTR at position −1 (relative to the start-ATG) by sequencing the 428-bp PCR product. Lines with homozygous T-DNA insertion were identified by genomic PCR with the AtVGT1-specific primers AtXYL1g −1382f (CAT TGA AAC AAG CAA TCA CTT TG) and AtXYL1g +408r. The same procedure was used for line SAIL_669_D03, in which the insertion was localized at position +2760 by using primers LB3 (TAG CAT CTG AAT TTC ATA ACC AAT CTC GAT ACA C) and AtXYL1g +3052r (CGC TAA CAC CAC AAA GAA GTA A). Homozygous T-DNA insertion lines were identified by RT-PCR with total RNA from flowers and AtVGT1-specific primers AtXYL1g +2326f and AtXYL1g +3052r.
