!~ABS~! The vascular tissue of roots performs essential roles in the physical support and transport of water, nutrients, and signaling molecules in higher plants. The molecular mechanisms underlying the function of root vascular tissue are poorly understood. In this study, we analyzed the expression pattern of AtGRP9, a salt stress-responsive gene encoding a glycine-rich protein, and its interacting partner, in Arabidopsis thaliana. Analysis of GUS or GFP expression under the control of the AtGRP9 promoter showed that AtGRP9 was expressed in the vascular tissue of the root; subcellular localization analysis further demonstrated that AtGRP9 proteins were localized in the cell wall and in the cytoplasm. Yeast two-hybrid analysis revealed that AtGRP9 interacted with AtCAD5, a major cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) involved in lignin biosynthesis, for which tissue-specific distribution was comparable with that of AtGRP9. These results suggest that AtGRP9 may be involved in lignin synthesis in response to salt stress as a result of its interaction with AtCAD5 in A. thaliana.
!~RES~! Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was performed to analyze the expression pattern of AtGRP9 in different organs of A. thaliana. As shown in Fig. 1, AtGRP9 was specifically expressed in the roots, no transcript was found in the stem, leaf, or flower. To further investigate the tissue-specific expression pattern of AtGRP9, GUS expression driven by the AtGRP9 promoter was analyzed in transgenic A. thaliana plants. Seedlings from three independent transgenic lines containing pAtGRP9::GUS were used for analysis of promoter activity. In ten-day-old seedlings, GUS expression was only detected in the root-hair zone of the roots (Figs. 2A and 2D). No GUS staining was observed in the leaves, flowers, or root tips (Figs. 2A–2C). This result is consistent with that of RT-PCR analysis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The cross-section image from GUS staining also showed that AtGRP9 promoter directed GUS expression mainly in the vascular tissue (except for the central cells of the xylem) of roots (Fig. 2E). The GFP fluorescence view in the vertical section of the roots in the transgenic plants expressing pAtGRP9::GFP resembled that of the GUS staining. GFP fluorescence was detected strongly in the region of the vascular tissue and no signal was observed in the central cells of the xylem (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]]  To further assess the subcellular localization of AtGRP9 we analyzed the distribution of AtGRP9–GFP fusion proteins by expressing them transiently in epidermal onion cells using gold-particle biolistics. Because many glycine-rich proteins are expected to be structural components of the plant cell wall (Ringli et al. CITATION), we first examined the GFP image under routine experimental conditions (pH 5.8), yet no obvious signal was observed in the cell wall (data not shown). The reason for the absence of AtGRP9–GFP fusion proteins in the cell wall could be that the medium of low pH (5.8) resulted in a decrease of GFP fluorescence intensity in the cell wall (Scott et al. CITATION). We therefore conducted the experiment under different conditions (pH 7.0) for observation of the cell wall proteins as described in Materials and methods. As shown in Fig. 4, some of the AtGRP9 fusion proteins were localized in the cell wall whereas others were distributed in the cytosol. The unexpected cytosol localization of AtGRP9 proteins might be a result of mis-sorting of the fusion proteins because of use of a heterogeneous system (onion epidermis) and the strong 35S promoter in the experiment. [[FIGURE]]  To identify potential AtGRP9-interacting proteins, the AtGRP9 (amino acids 24–154), which contains no signal peptide, was used as bait in a yeast two-hybrid assay against the cDNA library of A. thaliana seedlings. Two positive clones were identified, and one of them encodes for a cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase that was designated as AtCAD5 (Kim et al. CITATION). As shown in Fig. 5, only clones containing both bait plasmid pGBKT7–AtGRP9 and prey vector pGAD–AtCAD5 could grow on the selective plate (Fig. 5B) compared with the negative and positive controls (Figs. 5A and 5D). The interaction between AtGRP9 and AtCAD5 was further demonstrated by the β-galactosidase colony-lift filter assay (data not shown). Neither AtGRP9 nor AtCAD5 was found to be an auto-activating protein in the yeast strain used for screening (Figs. 5E and 5F). We also observed that AtGRP9 was not a self-interaction protein (Fig. 5C), suggesting it was unable to assume a dimeric structure in the plant cell. These results indicated that AtCAD5 was a putative AtGRP9-interacting protein. [[FIGURE]]  The interaction between AtGRP9 and AtCAD5 encouraged us to look at the relevance of their expression pattern and subcellular localization. Because it has been reported by Sibout et al. (CITATION) that AtCAD5 was preferentially expressed in the roots and vascular tissue of A. thaliana (similar patterns as those of AtGRP9), we mainly analyzed the subcellular localization of AtCAD5. Confocal microscopy analysis showed that although the free GFP proteins were distributed throughout the cell, the AtCAD5–GFP fusion proteins were observed only at the cell periphery (data not shown). Because AtCAD5 was predicted to have three or four transmembrane helices, a plasmolysis experiment was conducted to distinguish the residence of the proteins between cell wall and plasma membrane. As shown in Fig. 6A, AtCAD5–GFP fluorescence was perceptible mainly in the plasma membrane under routine experimental condition (pH 5.8). AtCAD5–GFP fluorescence was, however, also observed in the cell wall (Fig. 6B) if the sample was incubated under conditions (pH 7.0) for visualizing cell-wall proteins. The AtCAD5–GFP fluorescence signal also appeared in the Hechtian strands between the plasma membrane and the cell wall. These results suggested that AtCAD5 may be a membrane protein associated with the cell wall. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The Columbia ecotype of A. thaliana was used for all experiments in this study. The seeds were cold-treated at 4°C for 2 days then sown in soil. The plants were grown in a greenhouse under a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod at 22°C. Transgenic plants were generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dipping method. Transgenic seedlings were selected on MS-agar plates containing 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Total RNA was prepared using the TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis with oligo (dT)12–18 and 1 μg total RNA template. The cDNA products (1 μL) were subjected to PCR reaction with AtGRP9-specific primers. The primers used in PCR amplification were: forward 5′-TTAACATACTAAGAGAGTTATTAGAACTTG-3′ and reverse 5′-ATACATAAGCGTATATATATATATGCAATC-3′ for the AtGRP9 gene; and forward 5′-TTCCTCAATCTCATCTTCTTCC-3′ and reverse 5′-GACCTGCCTCATCATACTCG-3′ for the AtActin2 gene. Transcripts of the Actin2 gene were amplified by 25 cycles of PCR, and those of the AtGRP9 gene were amplified by 30 cycles of PCR. The 3 kb DNA fragment of the AtGPR9 promoter region upstream of the translational start site was amplified from A. thaliana genomic DNA by PCR. The pairs of primers used in the PCR reaction were: forward 5′-CCCTCCAAAGCTTCATTTGC-3′; reverse 5′-TTAGTATGTTAAGTAAGTGAT-3′. The DNA fragment was cloned in the upstream of GUS or GFP report gene, and then subcloned into pPZP111 to create a recombinant transcription unit, pAtGRP9::GUS or pAtGRP9::GFP. The authenticity of the fusion constructs was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Plant transformation was conducted as described above. Twenty and sixteen transgenics were generated for pAtGRP9::GUS and pAtGRP9::GFP constructs, respectively, and three independent lines were chosen from each type of transgenic for GUS staining or GFP fluorescence examination. Histochemical staining for β-glucronidase activity in transformants was performed as described by Jefferson et al. (CITATION). For sectioning, fixed and histochemically stained roots were dehydrated in increasing concentrations of ethanol and infiltrated with historesin according to the manufacturer’s procedure (Leica Historesin Embedding Kit). Sections of 10 μm were cut on a vibratome (Leica RM 2155) then analyzed and photographed under an Olympus (Japan) dissection microscope equipped with a CCD camera. The transgenic pAtGRP9::GFP A. thaliana seedlings were grown for 10 days on solid MS medium. GFP fluorescence was observed using a Leica laser-scanning confocal microscope (Germany) with a 488 nm excitation wavelength and an emission window of 505–530 nm. The cDNA fragment containing the open reading frame of AtGRP9 or AtCAD5 was fused to the 5′ end of the GFP coding region, and the fragments were subcloned into the pPZP111 expression vector under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter to obtain AtGRP9–GFP or AtCAD5–GFP fusions. Two micrograms of the plasmid construct were used to coat gold particles, and the plasmid containing GFP alone was used as a control. The onion inner-layer of the epidermis was peeled and bombarded by a gene gun using the plasmid-coated gold particles (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad). The bombarded samples were incubated at 25°C overnight under two different conditions. As conventional conditions the samples were placed on the MS medium (pH 5.8); as alternative conditions to visualize GFP in the cell wall the bombarded samples were bathed in 20 mmol L−1 piperazine-N,N′-bis (2-ethanesulfonic acid) (PIPES)–KOH (pH 7.0). The reason was that the medium of low pH (5.8) could result in a decrease of GFP fluorescence intensity in the cell wall (Scott et al. CITATION). In the plasmolysis experiment the bombarded onion epidermis was treated in 0.8 mol L−1 mannitol and observed using a Leica laser-scanning confocal microscope. The GFP fluorescence was induced by excitation at 488 nm with an argon laser. The A. thaliana whole-plant cDNA library was a generous gift from Dr Qi Xie (Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences) and constructed as described by Xie et al. (CITATION). Yeast strains AH109 and Y187 were used for the assay. The screening was conducted by yeast mating method according to the Matchmaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 and Libraries User Manual. The interaction of empty vector pGBKT7 and pGADT7 was used as negative control and the interaction of pGBKT7-53 and pGADT7-T was used as positive control.
