!~ABS~! Recent evidence indicates that ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) carries out multiple roles in plant cells that may be independent from the established effector complex COPI. To investigate potential COPI-independent functions, we have followed the dynamics of ARF1 and a novel putative effector, the plant golgin GRIP-related ARF-binding domain-containing Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) protein 1 (GDAP1) in living plant cells. We present data that ascribe a new role to ARF1 in plant cell membrane traffic by showing that the GTPase functions to recruit GDAP1 to membranes. In addition, although ARF1 appears to be central to the recruitment of both COPI components and the golgin, we have established a different subcellular distribution of these ARF1 effectors. Live cell imaging demonstrates that GDAP1 and COPI are distributed on Golgi membranes. However, GDAP1 is also found on ARF1-labeled structures that lack coatomer, suggesting that the membrane environment, rather than ARF1 alone, influences the differential recruitment of ARF1 effectors. In support of this hypothesis, fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analyses demonstrated that GDAP1 and COPI have different kinetics on membranes during the cycle of activation and inactivation of ARF1. Therefore, our data support a model where modulation of the cellular functions of ARF1 in plant cells encompasses not only the intrinsic activities of the effectors, but also differential recruitment onto membranes that is spatially regulated.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes a sequence with 32% identity and 62% similarity at the amino acid level to the human GMAP210 (CITATION) that we propose be called GRIP-related ARF-binding domain-containing Arabidopsis protein 1 (GDAP1). GDAP1 is a protein of 712 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 81.7 kD. To determine the subcellular localization of GDAP1, we fused it to a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP-GDAP1) and expressed it in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells. Laser confocal microscopy analyses indicated that YFP-GDAP1 labeled punctate structures of heterogeneous size (≤1 μm in diameter) that were motile in the cell (Fig. 1A ). The larger structures labeled by YFP-GDAP1 were often observed in a distinct ring formation (Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] As the punctate subcellular distribution of YFP-GDAP1 resembled that of the plant Golgi apparatus, tobacco leaf epidermal cells were cotransformed with the YFP-GDAP1 fusion and the ER/Golgi marker ERD2-GFP (CITATION). ERD2-GFP colocalized with the larger punctate structures of YFP-GDAP1. However, other structures were labeled solely by YFP-GDAP1 (Fig. 1, C–E). The distribution of GDAP1 was similar to that of ARF1, which mainly localizes to the Golgi apparatus but also additional non-Golgi structures (CITATION; CITATION). To test this further, we coexpressed YFP-GDAP1 with ARF1-GFP (CITATION). All the structures labeled by YFP-GDAP1 showed colocalization with ARF1-GFP (Fig. 1, F–H). This shows that the GTPase and GDAP1 colocalize to extra-Golgi structures. Furthermore, ARF1-GFP structures were stained by the styryl dye FM4-64, which labels compartments localized to the endocytic route (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1), consistent with earlier findings (CITATION). The colocalization results of ARF1 and GDAP1 led us to question whether GDAP1 could be functionally linked to ARF1. To explore this, we wanted to test the influence of ARF1 on GDAP1 recruitment to membranes. ARF1 directly recruits coatomer to membranes in its active form (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We postulated that, if similarly to coatomer, ARF1 recruits GDAP1 to membranes, expression of the GTP-restricted mutant of ARF1Q71L, which mimics the active form of ARF1 (CITATION; CITATION), would enhance signal of the golgin on membranes in comparison to a control expressing GDAP1 alone. To test this hypothesis, we coexpressed YFP-GDAP1 with ARF1Q71L, which is known to overlap with the distribution of wild-type ARF1 (Fig. 2A ; CITATION). We assessed GDAP1 recruitment by taking measurements of the fluorescence intensity within areas of identical size that included the punctate structures labeled by YFP-GDAP1 alone or in combination with ARF1Q71L normalized to the fluorescence intensity of the corresponding cytosolic fraction of each coat component (see also “Materials and Methods”). With the same approach, we quantified the recruitment of COPI on membranes in the presence of ARF1Q71L using a fluorescent fusion of the component εCOP-YFP (Fig. 2C; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 2, B and D, the values of relative fluorescence intensity of punctate structures in cells coexpressing the GTPase with either YFP-GDAP1 or εCOPI-YFP were significantly higher than those gathered in the respective control cells (P < 0.05; n = 75 in 45 cells or n = 65 in 30 cells, respectively). These data provide evidence that ARF1 is involved in the recruitment of GDAP1 to membranes as it does for COPI. To confirm that the distribution of GDAP1 on membranes was dependent on ARF1 activation, leaf epidermal cells coexpressing YFP-GDAP1 and ARF1-GFP were treated with brefeldin A (BFA), which is known to interfere with ARF1 activation (CITATION). We then followed the distribution of YFP-GDAP1 and ARF1-GFP over time. If active ARF1 is involved in the membrane recruitment of YFP-GDAP1, inactivation of ARF1 would lead to redistribution of GDAP1 into the cytosol. A time course showed that both GDAP1 and ARF1 were released into the cytosol at the same time upon treatment of cells with the inhibitor (Fig. 3, A and B ). This effect did not occur in the control samples without BFA, indicating that our data were not the result of photobleaching during the course of the experiment (Fig. 3C; Supplemental Fig. S2). These data imply that the inactivation of ARF1 is associated with the release of GDAP1 from membranes. [[FIGURE]] Although the data presented above indicate that ARF1 is involved in the distribution of GDAP1 on the membranes where ARF1 resides, they do not distinguish whether the interaction of ARF1 and GDAP1 is direct or mediated by other factors. To test this, we developed a glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography assay based on the interaction of a recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-GDAP1 with recombinant ARF protein. We used extracts of Escherichia coli expressing His6 fusions of ARF1wt, ARF1Q71L, and ARF1T31N, the GDP-locked mutant, and loaded them on glutathione columns that had been preloaded with extracts of E. coli expressing GST-GDAP1. Eluates of the columns were subjected to immunoblot analysis with either anti-His6 or anti-GST serum (Fig. 4A ). The chemiluminescence signal was acquired on the same membrane with a short exposure (20 s) and long exposure (60 s) to allow comparison of the signals without oversaturating pixels and compromising a clear detection of weak signals. Results indicate that there is an interaction between GDAP1 and ARF1wt, ARF1Q71L, and ARF1T31N; however, there was preferential association of GDAP1 with the wild type and GTP-locked ARF1 (Fig. 4A, lanes 5–7 and 13–15). Expression of the ARF proteins was tested by western blot on a fraction of total E. coli extracts to verify that similar quantities of ARF1 wild type, GTP, and GDP were loaded on the GST-GDAP1 columns (Fig. 4A, lanes 1–3). [[FIGURE]] As the GTPase cycle of the wild-type ARF1 prevents us from knowing whether ARF1wt in Figure 4A was in the active or inactive form, we decided to use nonhydrolyzable analogs of GTP and GDP, thus ensuring that the results were independent of the mutations. Wild-type ARF1 was charged with either GTPγS or GDPβS, and the interaction with GST-GDAP1 was tested (Fig. 4B). ARF1-His6 was retained by immobilized GST-GDAP1 with and without exogenous GTP and GDP (Fig. 4B, lanes 5–7 and 13–15). Similar to Figure 4B, the GDP-loaded ARF1-His6 had a decreased affinity for the GST-GDAP1. The column loaded with GST alone did not retain any ARF1 protein in either experiment under either exposure length (Fig. 4, A and B, lanes 9–12, 17–20). Anti-GST immunoblots demonstrated that GST-GDAP1 (Fig. 4, A and B, lanes 21–24) or GST (Fig. 4, A and B, lanes 25–28) were present in the column in comparable quantities. These data demonstrate that the association of ARF1 with GDAP1 occurs preferentially with active ARF1, therefore supporting our microscopy data on the recruitment and release of GDAP1 from membranes in the presence of either active or inactive ARF1, respectively (Figs. 2 and 3). They also prove that the interaction of GDAP1 with ARF1 is due to a direct association of the two molecules. The membrane dissociation of YFP-GDAP1 induced by BFA (Fig. 3) suggests that the association of GDAP1 on membranes is not stable. Therefore, to characterize further the kinetics of GDAP1 on membranes, we performed fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments on the punctate structures labeled by YFP-GDAP1. Photobleaching of YFP-GDAP1 was followed by a rapid recovery of YFP fluorescence on the membranes (Fig. 5, A and B ), confirming that GDAP1 does not associate stably with membranes. [[FIGURE]] To substantiate that the kinetics of the golgin on membranes are dependent on ARF1, we performed FRAP experiments on membranes labeled with YFP-GDAP1 in cells expressing ARF1Q71L. FRAP experiments were conducted with the assumption that to maintain steady-state fluorescence levels, there must be an equal, continual loss of protein from the bleached organelle if the chimeric protein levels on the organelle membrane had reached a steady state at the start of each experiment. Therefore, we hypothesized that if the cycling of GDAP1 on and off membranes is dependent on the cyclic activation/inactivation of ARF1, the presence of the active mutant form of ARF1 in cells expressing GDAP1 would reduce the dynamic exchange of the organelle-associated GDAP1 fraction with its cytosolic pool. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that the cycling of the golgin was affected by the presence of the ARF1 mutant, as the recovery of YFP fluorescence was significantly reduced in cells coexpressing ARF1Q71L (half time = 16.13 ± 0.91 s; n = 12; Fig. 5, C and D) in comparison to the control (half time = 8.25 ± 0.25 s; n = 15, P < 0.05; Fig. 5, A and B). These data indicate not only that the activation of ARF1 is necessary for the binding of GDAP1 to membranes, but they also show that its dynamic cycle is dependent on the efficiency of GTP hydrolysis of ARF1. It has been shown that ARF1 and coatomer cycle at different rates on and off membranes (CITATION). The identification of GDAP1 as an effector of ARF1 prompted us to determine whether GDAP1 undergoes cycling on and off membranes with similar dynamics to COPI. FRAP experiments confirmed that both ARF1-GFP (half time = 7.71 ± 0.91 s; n = 12; Fig. 5, E and F) and its effector εCOP-YFP (half time = 19.85 ± 0.25, n = 10; Fig. 5, G and H) were found to cycle with different kinetics (P < 0.05), in accordance with previous findings (CITATION). However, we found no significant difference between the rate of fluorescence recovery for ARF1-GFP (Fig. 5, E and F) and YFP-GDAP1 (P < 0.05; Fig. 5, A and B), indicating that these two proteins cycle with the same kinetics. In addition, both ARF1-GFP and YFP-GDAP1 labeling the extra-Golgi punctate structures cycle at the same rate as the Golgi-localized ARF1 and GDAP1 (Fig. 5, A–F). However, the exchange of COPI on membranes was significantly slower than that of YFP-GDAP1 (Fig. 5, E and F; P < 0.05). These data indicate that although coatomer and GDAP1 are both recruited by ARF1 on membranes, the binding cycles of the two molecules are differentially regulated. Because εCOP-YFP and YFP-GDAP1 have different cycling half times, we postulated that inactivation of ARF1 could be one possible mechanism regulating the differential release of the effectors into the cytosol. To test this hypothesis, we first treated cells cotransformed with εCOP-YFP and ARF1-GFP with BFA. This allowed a comparison with the BFA treatment of cells coexpressing ARF1 and GDAP1 (Fig. 3). A time course following fluorescence intensity shows that upon the addition of BFA, εCOP-YFP is redistributed to the cytosol before ARF1-GFP (Fig. 6, A and B ). This was interesting, as it was in clear contrast to what was observed in Figure 3, where ARF1-GFP and YFP-GDAP1 were released from membranes at the same time. As a control, a time course of images taken with the same settings on untreated cells transformed with both markers did not show significant reduction of fluorescence levels, therefore excluding the possibility that our results were due to photobleaching during the imaging process (Fig. 6C; Supplemental Fig. S3). Taken together, the results indicate that εCOP distribution on membranes was affected by the BFA treatment before GDAP1, suggesting that the interaction between ARF1 and its effectors is regulated at a level specific to the effector rather than the GTPase. [[FIGURE]] To confirm this, we treated cells cotransformed with εCOP-YFP and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged GDAP1 with BFA. This allowed us to follow the release of both effectors from the same membranes simultaneously. A time course following fluorescence intensity shows that upon addition of BFA, coatomer fluorescence was quickly released from the Golgi membranes (Fig. 7, A and B ). Although the Golgi-associated fluorescence of CFP-GDAP1 diminished over time, CFP-GDAP1 residual fluorescence was nonetheless still detectable on the Golgi after εCOP-YFP fluorescence was redistributed into the cytosol. Quantification of the fluorescence intensities of a time course of images taken from a control sample without BFA demonstrated that our results were not due to photobleaching (Fig. 7C; Supplemental Fig. S4). Our data are consistent with the findings that the release of GDAP1 from Golgi membranes occurs at the same time as the redistribution of ARF1 in the cytosol, but with different kinetics to coatomer (Figs. 3 and 6). This suggests that additional mechanisms are involved in the activity of ARF1-ligand interactions besides the direct recruitment of effectors by ARF1 on membranes. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used for subcloning. The fluorescent proteins used in this study were based on fluorescent fusions with mGFP5 (CITATION), ECFP, or EYFP (CLONTECH). The spectral properties of mGFP5 allow efficient spectral separation from YFP (CITATION). ERD2 was used as a Golgi marker (CITATION) fused to GFP (CITATION). cDNA of GDAP1 (At3g61570) was obtained as an Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center clone and amplified by PCR primers containing the XbaI and BamHI sites for subcloning downstream of either YFP or CFP in the binary vector pVKH18-En6. For coatomer labeling, we used a YFP fusion with the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) homolog of εCOP, a component of the COPI coatomer (CITATION). For expression based on stable DNA integration of untagged Arabidopsis ARF1 in its GTP-restricted form (CITATION) mediated by Agrobacterium, we used a modified binary vector pVKH18-En6 bearing two 35S-pNOS reading cassettes in direct orientation, as previously described (CITATION). For His6 and GST-tagged proteins, DNA sequences of GDAP1 and wild-type and mutant ARF1 proteins (Q71L [GTP] and T31N [GDP]) were subcloned in recombinant Escherichia coli expression vectors pET-28b(+) (Novagen) or in pGEX (Amersham), respectively. The His6-tag was placed downstream of the ARF1 sequence and the GST tag was upstream of the GDAP1 sequence. The primer sequences used for the subcloning indicated above are available upon request. Transformed leaves were analyzed 44 to 48 h after infection of the lower epidermis. Confocal imaging was performed using an upright LSM Zeiss 510 META, and either a 40× or 63× water immersion objective. For imaging expression of GFP constructs, YFP constructs, or both, imaging settings were used as described in CITATION with a 1- to 3-μm optical slice. For simultaneous imaging of the triple labeling (FM4-64, YFP, and GFP), the fluorescence of FM4-64, ST-YFP, and ARF1-GFP was detected using the 594-, 514-, and 405-nm laser lines of HeNe, Argon, and blue diode lasers, respectively. The imaging configuration of the microscope was set with a main dichroic HFT 405/514/594, and emission filters 530 to 600 and 475 to 525 nm (for YFP and GFP, respectively) and 636 to 743 spectral dye separation settings of the LSM 510 META (for FM4-64). Simultaneous imaging was carried out using the line-sequential multitrack scanning mode configuration of the microscope. Time-lapse scanning was acquired with imaging system software of the microscope. Spot FRAP experiments for fluorochrome photobleaching and half-time computation were performed as described by CITATION. Segments of transformed leaves (approximately 5 mm2) were submerged in 25 μm latrunculin B (Calbiochem; stock solution, 10 mm in dimethyl sulfoxide) for 1 h prior to photobleaching experiments to prevent movement of Golgi bodies and additional non-Golgi structures (CITATION; CITATION). Significance was determined using a Student's two-tailed t test for two samples, assuming equal variance. For experiments investigating the effects of BFA, segments of tissue were pretreated for 45 min with latrunculin B to stop Golgi movement, as described above. To follow the effects of BFA, we subsequently immersed leaf segments in a solution containing 25 μm latrunculin B and 100 μg/mL BFA and directly mounted the leaf segment on a slide in the latrunculin B/BFA solution. For control time-lapse experiments, segments of tissue were mounted in latrunculin B alone. When drugs were not used, leaf tissue was mounted on a slide in water alone. Quantification of relative punctate structure fluorescence (RPSF) for GDAP1 and εCOP with and without ARF1Q71L was calculated by measuring the fluorescence intensity values (arbitrary units) using ImageJ software: (1) in a circle of 25-pixel diameter centered on a punctate structure; and (2) in a circle of the same dimensions adjacent to the punctate structure, covering a region containing cytosol (C). RPSF was then calculated as a percentage of the total fluorescence of both areas: RPSF = (PS/[PS + C]) × 100. Measurements were performed on images acquired with the same microscope settings of laser intensity, detector gain, offset, and maximum pinhole aperture. Postacquisition image processing was done with a Corel Draw 12 imaging suite. We followed the relative Golgi fluorescence for εCOP-YFP and YFP-GDAP1 with and without ARF1-GFP (±BFA treatment), as well as coexpression of εCOP-YFP and CFP-GDAP1 (±BFA treatment), by measuring the fluorescence intensity values over time as described above on each frame of the time lapse over 10 min. The RPSF was then calculated as a percentage of the total fluorescence for each punctate structure. Fluorescence data were graphed with respect to time and trend lines were applied by calculating a polynomial curve fit. Leaves were infiltrated through the stomata on the abaxial surface with a solution of FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) at a concentration of 8.2 μm in water. Samples of leaf tissue were excised from the leaves 5 to 10 min after infiltration, mounted in the FM4-64 solution on a slide, and observed up to 1 h postinfiltration. Four-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cv Petit Havana greenhouse plants grown at 25°C were used for imaging experiments (CITATION). For in vitro experiments, protein production of His6 and GST fusions subcloned in pET-28b(+) and pGEX vectors was induced in E. coli BL21(DE3) cells as previously described (CITATION). Cultures were grown to an OD600 of 1.0, and protein production was induced with the addition of 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside and further incubated for 5 h at 30°C. Cells were then pelleted and lysed according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the glutathione resin columns (BD Biosciences) for binding GST-tagged proteins. In both cases, E. coli extracts were prepared under native conditions to discharge insoluble proteins in the pellet; they were cleared of inclusion bodies by centrifugation (12,000g for 30 min). The supernatant was used for further analyses. For protein-protein interaction assays, the GST extracts were loaded into glutathione resin columns (BD Biosciences) for binding of GST-tagged proteins. Protein binding, removal of endogenous proteins, and elution of tagged proteins were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. To ensure that equal amounts of GST and GST-GDAP1 were mixed with His6-tagged ARF1 protein extracts, 500 mL of overnight E. coli culture expressing GST-GDAP1 was extracted in 10 mL of GST extraction buffer (BD Biosciences) and mixed with 500 μL of agarose beads. The bead slurry was divided into 150-μL aliquots and incubated with recombinant His6-tagged wild-type ARF1, ARF1Q71L, ARF1T31N, or ARF1 incubated with either 100 μm GTPγS (Sigma) or 100 μm GDPβS (Sigma), or His6 protein at 4°C for 3 h with gentle rotation. The beads were centrifuged at 4°C, 500g, for 1 min and then washed three times with nucleotide stabilization buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 5 mm MgCl2). Bound proteins were eluted from the beads with an appropriate volume of 5× SDS-PAGE sample buffer (0.225 m Tris-HCl, pH 6.8; 50% glycerol; 5% SDS; 0.05% bromphenol blue; 5% β-mercaptoethanol), boiled for 5 min, and equal volumes were run on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Protein was transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane by electroblotting and blocked with phosphate-buffered saline plus 0.05% Tween 20 and 5% milk powder for 2 h. The nitrocellulose was then incubated in phosphate-buffered saline plus Tween 20 containing 1% milk powder and either anti-GST serum from rabbit (AbCam) at a dilution of 1:500 or anti-His6 serum from rabbit (Santa-Cruz Biotechnology) at a dilution of 1:200 for 4 h. A horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (Sigma) was subsequently used to detect the protein of interest and an enhanced chemiluminescence substrate (Millipore) was used to detect the signal. We acquired a chemiluminescence signal using an Epichem3 Darkroom gel documentation system (UVP BioImaging Systems) with Labworks Image Acquisition software without digital enhancement. Biochemical results presented in this article are representative of at least three independent repetitions. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number GI:42566118 (At3g61570). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. The non-Golgi structure labeled by ARF1 partially overlaps with FM4-64. Supplemental Figure S2. YFP-GDAP1 and ARF1-GFP maintain fluorescence without BFA treatment. Supplemental Figure S3. εCOP-YFP and ARF1-GFP maintain fluorescence without BFA treatment. Supplemental Figure S4. εCOP-YFP and CFP-GDAP1 maintain fluorescence without BFA treatment.
