!~ABS~! Different classes of biotic (e.g. plant hormones) and abiotic (e.g. different wavelengths of light) signals act through specific signal transduction mechanisms to coordinate higher plant development. While a great deal of progress has been made, full signal transduction chains have not yet been described for most blue light- or abscisic acid-mediated events. Based on data derived from T-DNA insertion mutants and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid and coprecipitation assays, we report a signal transduction chain shared by blue light and abscisic acid leading to light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein expression in etiolated Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings. The chain consists of GCR1 (the sole Arabidopsis protein coding for a potential G-protein-coupled receptor), GPA1 (the sole Arabidopsis Gα-subunit), Pirin1 (PRN1; one of four members of an iron-containing subgroup of the cupin superfamily), and a nuclear factor Y heterotrimer comprised of A5, B9, and possibly C9. We also demonstrate that this mechanism is present in imbibed seeds wherein it affects germination rate.
!~RES~! We have previously demonstrated that PRN1 can act as an effector for GPA1 in a signaling mechanism that acts to inhibit the ABA-induced delay in seed germination (CITATION); the two proteins can interact and mutants in both share the same phenotype. Pandey and Assmann demonstrated that GPA1 can interact with GCR1 (CITATION), and later confirmed that GCR1 and GPA1 were in a direct signaling mechanism affecting germination and early development (CITATION). We recently identified a positive signaling link between GCR1 and GPA1 regarding their shared role in BL- and ABA-induced activation of PD1 in the etiolated cotyledon, the immediate production of Phe, and subsequent production of products of the phenylpropanoid pathway (CITATION). We sought to determine if GCR1, GPA1, and PRN1 have defined roles in the immature cotyledon, namely induction of Lhcb expression by the BLF system. Six-day-old etiolated wild type (Columbia [Col]) and multiple T-DNA insertion mutants for GCR1, GPA1, and PRN1 were irradiated with a single pulse of BL in the low-fluence range with a total fluence of 102 μmol m−2 or no light (DK). The resulting Lhcb RNA levels were determined by northern analysis (CITATION). The data presented in Figure 1 indicate that the single pulse of BL, unlike in wild-type seedlings, has no effect on Lhcb RNA levels in lines with T-DNA insertions in GCR1, GPA1, and PRN1. The loss of activity occurs regardless of ecotype (Col or Wassilewskija [Ws]; data not shown) and is replicated, for most genes, in at least two independent insertion lines for each gene. Insertions distal to the promoter region for GPA1 (approximately 600–680 bp upstream from the start of transcriptional initiation) do not result in the loss of BLF system activity. Induction of Lhcb expression was also monitored by quantitative PCR (qPCR) to confirm the fold level of induction by BL. The resulting range of BL induction compares well to that observed using northern analysis, as confirmed by Student's t test described in “Materials and Methods” (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] NF-Y is a heterotrimeric protein comprised of A, B, and C subunits. The Arabidopsis genome codes for 10, 10, and nine potential copies of the A, B, and C subunits, respectively, as determined by DNA and protein sequence analyses (CITATION, CITATION). The NF-Y family is poorly studied in higher plants, with most of the work focusing on specific members of the NF-Y-B subunit family, particularly NF-Y-B9 (LEC1; CITATION) and the closely related NF-Y-B6 (LEC1 LIKE; CITATION) in Arabidopsis. There is some evidence for differential expression in plants of the NF-Y subunits (CITATION, CITATION). To better define the NF-Y-A, -B, and -C family members that have a potential for participation in the signaling mechanism of etiolated seedlings, we performed reverse transcription (RT)-PCR, using RNA from etiolated wild-type seedlings and primer pairs specific to each of the 29 NF-Y members. The results, shown in Figure 2 , indicate that the NF-Y-A5, NF-Y-B6, NF-Y-B9, and NF-Y-C1, -C4, and -C9 subunits are expressed in the 6-d-old etiolated seedlings, suggesting that these NF-Y subunits have a potential role as signal carriers in the BLF system regulation of Lhcb transcription. [[FIGURE]] T-DNA insertion mutants are available in most members of the NF-Y-A family, the NF-Y-B family, and only a few members of the NF-Y-C family, including C1 and C4. There are no publicly available insertion mutants for the coding region of the C9 gene. To identify NF-Y members with a defined role in the BLF system-mediated Lhcb expression, we tested all available T-DNA insertion mutants of NF-Y-A, NF-Y-B, and NF-Y-C. The data presented in Figure 3 indicate that insertions in only one A family member, NF-Y-A5, and only one B family member, B9, exhibit a loss of BLF system-mediated Lhcb expression. Both NF-Y-A5 and NF-Y-B9 were identified by RT-PCR as being expressed in the etiolated tissue. T-DNA insertions in all other NF-Y-B members, including NF-Y-B6, which is closely related to the NF-Y-B9 protein, do not result in the loss of the BLF system-mediated Lhcb expression. Similarly, insertions in all other NF-Y-A members and NF-Y-C1 and C4 do not exhibit the loss of BLF system-mediated Lhcb expression. [[FIGURE]] Based on the data presented in Figures 1 to 3, the BL signal transduction mechanism is minimally comprised of the GCR1, GPA1, PRN1, NF-Y-A5, NF-Y-B9, and potentially NF-Y-C9. We know from earlier published work that ABA, like BL, can elicit the GCR1-GPA1 effector signaling pathways in etiolated cotyledons, as was demonstrated for the PD1 signaling pathway (CITATION). Thus, it was of interest to determine if ABA can activate Lhcb expression via the GCR1-GPA1-PRN1-NFY signaling chain in etiolated cotyledons. If so, it would establish that both ABA and low-fluence BL can use the exact same signaling mechanism, and, at the same time, provide evidence of ABA as a signal for a simple positive transduction mechanism. Lhcb RNA levels were measured in 6-d-old etiolated wild-type seedlings that had been treated with 800 nm ABA dissolved in ethanol (approximately 70% saturation for the germination response; CITATION) or with ethanol alone (Fig. 4 ). The ABA treatment in wild-type seedlings, just like low-fluence BL, induces Lhcb expression. We also tested the ability of ABA to induce Lhcb in T-DNA insertion mutants of the components of the BLF pathway: gcr1, gpa1, prn1, nf-y-b9, and nf-y-a5. ABA fails to induce Lhcb RNA accumulation in the mutant seedlings, indicating that ABA and low-fluence BL depend upon the same GPA1-based signaling pathway. [[FIGURE]] If low-fluence BL and ABA utilize the same signal transduction chain, then the combination of a near-saturating BL treatment (104 μmol m−2; CITATION) and a near-saturating ABA treatment (800 nm; CITATION) would not be expected to exceed saturation, where the two responses would not be completely additive. The data shown in Figure 4B show the results of treatment with BL and/or ABA. The near-saturating doses of BL and ABA are not additive for Lhcb accumulation. The difference between the individual BL treatment response plus the ABA treatment response (additive) is significantly different from the combined treatments single response, according to the Student's t test (95% confidence level, P = 0.012). These data indicate that BL and ABA share all or part of a signal transduction chain where each BL and ABA are capable of activating expression. The data are consistent with a shared signal transduction chain of GCR1-GPA1-PRN1-NF-Y. The data presented in Figures 1 to 4⇑⇑ establish that ABA can act as a signal for and that PRN1 can act as a signal carrier in the BL-mediated GCR1, GPA1 signal transduction pathway leading to the expression of Lhcb in etiolated seedlings. We have previously demonstrated that PRN1 acts as the effector for GPA1 in the signaling mechanism that inhibits the ABA-mediated delay in seed germination (CITATION). It appears that PRN1 participates in different signaling mechanisms in different tissues and there is redundancy among signaling components in the germinating seed and young seedling. We tested the effect of ABA on germination rate in the same T-DNA insertion mutants as those described in the experiments for BL regulation of Lhcb expression in etiolated cotyledons. The results shown in Figure 5 indicate that T-DNA insertion mutants of GCR1, NF-Y-A5, NF-Y-B9, and the closely related NF-Y-B6 show a marked increase in the delay in germination in response to ABA (i.e. appear to be hypersensitive to ABA). Insertions in other NF-Y-A or NF-Y-B family members, like NF-Y-A4 or NF-Y-B2 (both shown as examples), appear similar to wild type and therefore are not likely to have a role in this response. We also tested the insertion mutants in NF-Y-C1 and NF-Y-C4 since these components are expressed in etiolated seedlings (Fig. 2). The nf-y-c4 mutant seed demonstrates a measurable increase in germination delay when compared to wild-type levels of germination, suggesting a role for NF-Y-C4 in the germination process. Graphical representation of the data can be viewed in Supplemental Figure S1. [[FIGURE]] The data shown in Figures 1 to 4⇑⇑ establish roles for GCR1, GPA1, PRN1, NF-Y-A5, NF-Y-B9, and potentially NF-Y-C9 in the BLF system activation of Lhcb transcription and, in Figure 5, roles for GCR1, GPA1, PRN1, NF-Y-A5, NF-Y-B6, NF-Y-B9, and NF-Y-C4 in the signaling mechanism responsible for inhibiting the ABA-mediated delay in seed germination. GCR1 and GPA1 (CITATION) and GPA1 and PRN1 (CITATION) are known to have specific interactions. Mammalian PRN is known to directly interact with mammalian NF-Y for transcription activation (CITATION). Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid and in vitro coprecipitation assays were used to determine if specific interactions could occur between PRN1 and NF-Y-B9 or between PRN1 and NF-Y-B6. NF-Y-B9 is active in both Lhcb and germination responses; NF-Y-B6, although a very similar protein to NF-Y-B9, is only active in the germination response. The results of the in vitro coprecipitation experiments (Fig. 6 ) indicate that PRN1 has the potential for a specific interaction with both NF-Y-B9 and NF-Y-B6. [[FIGURE]] The yeast two-hybrid data, confirm by a second, independent assay, the potential for a positive physical interaction between PRN1 and NF-Y-B9 (Fig. 6). The yeast cells expressing NF-Y-B6 undergo two to three cell divisions but fail to form viable colonies. Thus, we are unable to confirm that the PRN1-NF-Y-B6 interaction is either specific or strong in the yeast two-hybrid assay.
!~MM~! Matched seed lots of wild-type Col Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and siblings carrying T-DNA insertions within coding regions of these genes are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The accessions were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION) or from the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility, University of Wisconsin, Madison. All lines used herein are in the Col background except for pir1-1 (CITATION) and CS6539 that are in the Ws background. Seeds stocks were obtained from plants grown in Scott Metromix 200 in continuous white light. All seeds are homozygous for the reported insertion except for accessions of NF-Y-B9 (all accessions; CITATION; CITATION) and the pir1-1 (in the Ws background only; data not shown; CITATION), as they are embryonic lethals. Where available, T-DNA seed lines with insertions located in the promoter (approximately 600–680 bp upstream from the coding region; GPA1: SALK_057120, SALK_59035) were also tested. All homozygous insertion seeds appear to represent null mutants based on RT-PCR data. Six-day-old dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings Col wild type or insertion mutants were grown on 0.8% agarose plates containing only 0.5× Murashige and Skoog media as described in CITATION. The growth media contains no additional sugar, hormones, vitamins, or other nutrients. Seedlings were irradiated with a single pulse (10 s) of low-fluence BL (total fluence of 102 μmol m−2), or a single pulse (100 s) of saturation fluence BL (total fluence of 104 μmol m−2), or DK, and/or treated with 800 nm ABA dissolved in ethanol, or ethanol alone, placed back in the dark for 2 h after which total RNA was extracted and used for northern-blot analysis (CITATION). Lhcb and rDNA probes used, quantitation methods, and means of normalization to rRNA levels are described elsewhere (CITATION). Induction ratios (BL/DK or ABA/ETOH or BL + ABA/ETOH) derive from at least three independent replicates. All induction data is correct for loading through the quantitation of the rRNA as described (CITATION). Error bars represent se of the mean. Real-time qPCR was used to measure the level of Lhcb RNA induction in response to a single pulse of low-fluence BL as a confirmation of the northern-blot analysis methods. This PCR was performed using iCycler protocols and the SYBR kit from Invitrogen (first-strand synthesis from RNA and real-time PCR) from wild-type untreated (dark or DK) and BL-treated seedlings. The qPCR-derived information (four different RNA sets of dark and BL treated) data was analyzed using (ΔΔCoT). The resulting range of BL induction is 1.54 to 2.19 (data not shown). This compares well to the induction level range in replicates we observe using northern analysis (1.40–2.18). The Student's t test indicates the P value for the BL induction levels by comparing the two methods (northern versus PCR) is 0.526; similarly the P value for the DK controls is 0.765, so the range/means of the two methods are not different (95% confidence level). Thus, the northern-blot method of analysis is a good indicator of induced gene expression. RNA of dark-grown or light-grown 6-d-old Arabidopsis was extracted as described in CITATION. First-strand and PCR synthesis was achieved by using SuperScriptTM First-Strand Synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen). PCR results were confirmed with Invitrogen High Fidelity PCR kit. Gene-specific primers were obtained by comparing sequence via BLAST and selecting 18- to 23-mers that were specific to each NF-Y subunit (IDT). Results were visualized by ethidium bromide staining. Matched seed lots were planted as described for northern-blot assays, except that the media was supplemented with ABA (Sigma) ranging from 0 nm up to 1,000 nm (CITATION). Seedlings were grown at 22°C in continuous white light. Germination was measured as described previously (CITATION), assessed visually on a daily basis, and photographed 7 d poststratification. Full-length PRN1 was subcloned into the glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fusion expression vector pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), prepared, expressed, and purified as described (CITATION). Radiolabeled NF-Y-B9 and NF-Y-B6 protein were produced by coupled in vitro transcription/translation using TNT T7 Coupled Wheat Germ Extract system (Promega) as directed and as modified (CITATION). In vitro association assays were conducted as described previously (CITATION). Samples were resolved on 4% to 20% gradient SDS-PAGE gels. Results were visualized using a Phosphor-Imager (Molecular Dynamics; CITATION). The potential for interaction between PRN1 and either NF-Y-B9 or the closely related protein NF-Y-B6 was tested in a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assay as described (CITATION). Bait and prey vectors, pGBT9 and pGAD424, respectively, were obtained from CLONTECH (Palo Alto) and used as directed. The indicated combinations of the bait (pGBT9) and prey (pGAD424) constructs were transformed into the yeast reporter strain AH109. The same inserts were also cloned in the opposite vectors (bait and prey switch) with similar results (data not shown). Empty vector (pGAD424) and the yeast mating response protein yFUS3 were used as negative bait controls. Other negative controls included NF-Y-B9 and NF-Y-B6 with empty prey vector (data not shown). The interaction between the yeast Gα (yGPA1) and Gβ (ySTE4) was used as a positive interaction control. Initial transformants were plated on 9-cm sd plates (Trp−, Leu−, Lys−, His−) to select for His prototrophy. Positive transformants were also streaked on X-α-Gal-containing selective media where LacZ reporter gene activity was monitored visually; blue color indicating a positive interaction. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Graphical representation of the ABA hypersensitivity germination experiments is shown in this figure. Supplemental Table S1. Accessions of null T-DNA insertion lines for potential BL-induced Lhcb signal transduction pathway components were tested for a variety of genes as described in “Materials and Methods” under “Plant Material.”
