!~ABS~! Tail-anchored (TA) proteins are bound to membranes by a hydrophobic sequence located very close to the C-terminus, followed by a short luminal polar region. Their active domains are exposed to the cytosol. TA proteins are synthesized on free cytosolic ribosomes and are found on the surface of every subcellular compartment, where they play various roles. The basic mechanisms of sorting and targeting of TA proteins to the correct membrane are poorly characterized. In mammalian cells, the net charge of the luminal region determines the sorting to the correct target membrane, a positive charge leading to mitochondria and negative or null charge to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here sorting signals of TA proteins were studied in plant cells and compared with those of mammalian proteins, using in vitro translation–translocation and in vivo expression in tobacco protoplasts or leaves. It is shown that rabbit cytochrome b5 (cyt b5) with a negative charge is faithfully sorted to the plant ER, whereas a change to a positive charge leads to chloroplast targeting (instead of to mitochondria as observed in mammalian cells). The subcellular location of two cyt b5 isoforms from Arabidopsis thaliana (At1g26340 and At5g48810, both with positive net charge) was then determined. At5g48810 is targeted to the ER, and At1g26340 to the chloroplast envelope. The results show that the plant ER, unlike the mammalian ER, can accommodate cytochromes with opposite C-terminal net charge, and plant cells have a specific and as yet uncharacterized mechanism to sort TA proteins with the same positive C-terminal charge to different membranes.
!~RES~! Comparison of the C-terminal polar sequences of cyt b5 from plants and mammals showed that a net negative charge is present in the mammalian ER isoforms only (CITATION). The known cyt b5 sequences of plants have C-termini with positive or neutral charge. It is therefore possible that plants and mammals use different mechanisms to sort and target cyt b5. To address this question, it was first determined whether two mammalian forms of cyt b5, resident either in the ER or in the MOM, maintained their correct intracellular locations once expressed in plant cells. The difference between the two forms is in the net charge of the C-terminal polar region only, with the substitution of the C-terminal negative polar region of ER b5 with two arginines (CITATION). To detect the proteins by immunofluorescence and biochemical techniques, tagged versions of these sequences, termed b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc, were used in which an epitope containing an N-glycosylation consensus sequence (OP3 epitope), recognized by a specific anti-opsin mAb (CITATION), was appended at the C-terminus (CITATION). The two proteins were distributed either in the ER (b5-Nglyc) or in the MOM (b5-RRNglyc) when expressed in mammalian cells (CITATION). In an in vitro translation–translocation system, both forms were instead post-translationally translocated into dog pancreas microsomes, indicating that the MOM isoform can be inserted into the ER as well, and that unknown, additional factors present in intact cells are required for correct targeting to the MOM (CITATION). We first investigated whether the two proteins are also able to translocate their C-termini across plant microsomes in vitro. mRNAs coding for either b5-Nglyc or b5-RRNglyc were translated in the reticulocyte lysate system in the presence of [35S]methionine. After stopping translation, equal amounts of the labelled translation products were incubated either in the absence or in the presence of microsomes purified from P. vulgaris developing cotyledons (CITATION) for 1 h at 25 °C. After incubation, samples were analysed by SDS–PAGE and autoradiography. N-glycosylation affects migration of the protein in SDS–PAGE, leading to a higher apparent molecular mass, and this was used to assess the occurrence and efficiency of translocation. Figure 1 shows that both proteins are post-translationally glycosylated by plant microsomes: the shift of b5-RRNglyc and b5-Nglyc to a higher molecular mass form (asterisk in lanes 2 and 4) indicates the occurrence of glycosylation. After 1 h in the presence of microsomes, the glycosylated molecules represented 52% of b5-Nglyc but only 23% of b5-RRNglyc, indicating that b5-RRNglyc was glycosylated with lower efficiency than b5-Nglyc (compare lanes 2 and 4). This is in contrast to the results obtained by CITATION: in that study, using dog pancreas microsomes, b5-RRNglyc was more efficiently glycosylated than b5-Nglyc. This could reflect some difference in the make-up of plant and mammalian microsomes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Having established that b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc can be targeted to plant microsomal membranes in vitro, the destiny of the two proteins in living plant cells was investigated. Plasmids encoding b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc under the control of the CaMV 35S constitutive promoter were transfected into tobacco mesophyll protoplasts. Equal amounts of total protoplast homogenates were then subjected to Endo H digestion before immunoblotting with anti-opsin antibodies. As shown in Fig. 2, lane 3, two polypeptides, with apparent molecular masses of 22 kDa and 18 kDa, were detected when b5-Nglyc was expressed. The 22 kDa polypeptide (Fig. 2, lane 3, asterisk) was entirely sensitive to digestion with Endo H, and the change in mobility indicated that it represented the glycosylated form of the 18 kDa polypeptide (compare lanes 3 and 4). Therefore, the C-terminal polar sequence of b5-Nglyc is efficently translocated and glycosylated in vivo. Conversely, only a very minor proportion of b5-RRNglyc was glycosylated (Fig. 2, lanes 5 and 6). The results shown in Fig. 2 suggest that b5-Nglyc, but not b5-RRNglyc, is efficiently targeted to the plant ER in vivo. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of the two proteins, protoplasts were analysed by immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy, using anti-OP3 mAb alone or in combination with anti-BiP polyclonal antiserum. As shown in Fig. 3A, b5-Nglyc showed a typical ER staining, which is located in the interspace between chloroplasts (Fig 3B and A/B merge in C), with the nuclear envelope clearly stained as well (arrows). Moreover, upon double staining with anti-OP3 and anti-BiP (Fig. 3G–I), the pattern of fluorescence of b5-Nglyc (Fig. 3G) was completely superimposed on that of the ER marker BiP (Fig. 3H and G/H merge in I; yellow colour indicates co-localization). By contrast, b5-RRNglyc (Fig. 3D) showed a distribution which was superimposed to the envelope of chloroplasts (Fig. 3E and D/E merge in F). Thus, we conclude that the substitution of the C-terminal residues of ER b5 with a pair of basic residues is sufficient to relocate the protein from the ER to another membrane in plants as well as in mammalian cells (CITATION), even if the target membrane is not the MOM, but the chloroplast envelope. Moreover, notwithstanding that, to date, plant cyt b5s with a negative C-terminus have not been identified, b5-Nglyc (that has a negative C-terminus) is targeted to the ER in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] An in-depth search of the native Arabidopsis cyt b5 sequences was therefore performed to identify isoforms with negatively charged luminal tails. Within the A. thaliana proteome five sequences were identified (coded by the accessions At5g53560, At5g48810, At2g46650, At1g26340, and At2g32720), and are listed and aligned in Fig. 4. The primary structures of these polypeptides are very similar and have the canonical haem-binding site in the first half of the molecule; they have a hydrophobic putative membrane-spanning domain very close to the C-terminus, indicating a predicted TA topology. Three of the identified proteins have a single positive net charge in the short C-terminal polar sequence, whereas At5g48810 and At5g53560 have a double positive charge (Fig. 5A). No sequences with negatively charged C-terminal luminal tails could be identified. Three isoforms, At2g32720, At2g46650, and At5g48810, have more similarity to the identified ER isoform At5g53560 (CITATION). The putative cyt b5 coded by the At1g26340 gene has a number of differences with respect to the other four isoforms: its hydrophobic domain is longer and has a distinct amino acid composition (Fig. 5A). This determines a lower average hydrophobicity and lower maximal amphiphilicity of the α-helix (see Fig. 5B) (analysis performed by ARAMEMNON transmembrane domain topology and hydrophobic profile http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/; CITATION). This also results in a different hydrophobicity profile of the tail anchor of At1g26340 with respect to the other members (Fig. 5C: only At1g26340 and At5g48810 are shown; the other four members have characteristics very similar to the latter). Moreover, the C-terminal polar region of At1g26340 has a net charge of +1, whereas that of At5g48810 has +2. Based on these differences, it was decided to compare in detail the intracellular fate of At1g26340 and At5g48810. The polypeptides coded by the At5g48810 and At1g26340 genes are referred to as At5g and At1g, respectively. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] It was first tested if At5g and At1g polypeptides were able to translocate their C-termini across plant ER microsomes in vitro. To do this, the OP3 epitope was fused to the C-termini of both the Arabidopsis cyt b5 sequences to detect glycosylation. The two tagged polypeptides were called At1g-Nglyc and At5g-Nglyc. The mRNAs coding for either At1g-Nglyc or At5g-Nglyc were translated in the reticulocyte lysate system and, after stopping translation, equal amounts of 35S-labelled translation products were incubated in either the absence or presence of P. vulgaris microsomes for 1 h at 25 °C. After incubation, samples were analysed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. Figure 6A shows that both proteins can be post-translationally glycosylated by plant microsomes: the shift of At1g-Nglyc and At5g-Nglyc to a higher molecular mass form (asterisk in Fig. 6A, lanes 2 and 4) indicated the occurrence of glycosylation. Both proteins seemed to be glycosylated with the same efficiency (∼40%). It is concluded that both proteins were able to translocate their C-termini post-translationally across plant microsomes in vitro. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the intracellular destiny of At5g and At1g, GFP or YFP were fused to their N-termini. The fusion constructs, named YFP/GFP::At5g and YFP/GFP::At1g, were subcloned into the vector pDHA (Tabe et al., 1994) for transient expression in tobacco protoplasts, or into the vector pGreenII (CITATION) for transient transfection of tobacco leaves mediated by agroinfiltration. The expression levels and stability of the fusion proteins were first determined by pulse–chase analysis. Protoplasts from tobacco leaves were transiently transfected with pDHA-GFP::At1g or pDHA-GFP::At5g and labelled with [35S]methioine/cysteine for 2 h, followed by 3 h of chase. At 0 h or 3 h of chase, cells were lysed and subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-GFP antibodies (Fig. 6B). The two fusion proteins have the expected molecular masses and do not undergo degradation (Fig. 6B, lanes 3 and 4, and 5 and 6). Very similar results were obtained when the YFP::At5g and YFP::At1g constructs were expressed (data not shown); GFP or YFP constructs were therefore used depending on which was more convenient. The intracellular localization of YFP::At5g was determined by confocal microscopy. Tobacco leaves were infiltrated with a mixture of Agrobacterium strains transformed with pGreen-YFP::At5g and pBIN-GFP-HDEL. The latter is a modified GFP, containing the HDEL sequence for retrieval into the ER, commonly used as a marker for this compartment (CITATION). Samples were analysed 3 d after infiltration. YFP::At5g co-localized with GFP–HDEL, indicating that it is an ER resident (Fig. 7A, B, and merge in C, yellow). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A similar co-infiltration experiment was performed using a mixture of Agrobacterium strains transformed with pGreen-YFP::At1g26340 or pBIN-GFP-HDEL. While GFP–HDEL showed the typical reticular pattern (Fig. 8A), YFP::At1g was instead located in close proximity to chloroplasts (Fig. 8B), which could be identified by chlorophyll autofluorescence (showed in Fig. 8C, blue). The merge between the fluorescence given by GFP–HDEL, YFP::At1g, and chloroplasts shows that YFP::At1g was distributed around the chloroplasts, partially superimposed on these organelles (Fig. 8D, violet), and did not co-localize with the ER marker. YFP::At1g was also present in tubular structures (Fig. 8E, red), which interconnected chloroplasts (Fig. 8F, blue, and E/F merge in G). These structures, termed stromules, were previously observed in several plants as highly dynamic stroma-filled tubules, extending from the surface of all plastid types examined so far, including proplastids, chloroplasts, etioplasts, leucoplasts, amyloplasts, and chromoplasts (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The results shown in Fig. 8 suggest that YFP::At1g may be located on the COE. We therefore subcloned an expression cassette encoding the COE marker OEP7::GFP (Lee et al., 2001) into pGreen II and infiltrated tobacco leaves with a mixture of Agrobacterium strains transformed with pGreen-YFP::At1g or pGreen-OEP7::GFP. Three days after infiltration, it was observed that the pattern of distribution of YFP::At1g (Fig. 9B, red) was completely superimposed on that of OEP7::GFP (Fig. 9A, green) and that both proteins were located on the surface of chloroplasts (Fig. 9C, blue, and A/B/C merge in D, yellow). The two proteins were also located on stromules (Fig. 9A, B, and D, asterisks), which were not detectable by chloroplast intrinsic autofluorescence. From these results, it was concluded that YFP::At1g is anchored to the COE. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether a proportion of YFP::At1g was also present on mitochondria, the marker mit-GFP, a GFP targeted to the mitochondria by the signal sequence of the β-ATPase subunit, was used (Logan et al., 2000). Tobacco leaves were infliltrated with a mixture of Agrobacterium strains transformed with pGreen-YFP::At1g26340 or pGreen-mit-GFP. The expression level of YFP::At1g was higher than that of mit-GFP; to obtain similar fluorescence levels, leaves were therefore infiltrated with an unequal mixture of the two Agrobacterium strains. Two different patterns of fluorescence were observed, which were related to the presence or absence of chloroplasts: in cells in which chloroplasts were detectable (Fig. 10A, blue), YFP::At1g (Fig. 10C, red) never co-localized with mitochondria (Fig. 10B, green) and was always associated with chloroplasts (Fig. 10D, merge of A/B/C, violet). By contrast, when chloroplasts were not detectable (Fig. 10E), YFP::At1g (Fig. 10G, red) co-localized with mitochondria (Fig. 10F, green and E/F/G merge in H). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] This unexpected result indicates that YFP::At1g has the capacity to localize promiscuously to both chloroplasts and mitochondria, with a preference for the former. To determine whether the different localizations of YFP::At1g and YFP::At5g could also be detected by subcellular fractionation, tobacco protoplasts were transiently transfected with plasmids expressing either of the two YFP fusions. All batches of protoplasts were also co-transfected with plasmid expressing the marker of the chloroplast envelope OEP7::GFP. At 24 h after transfection, protoplasts were homogenized in sorbitol buffer in the absence of detergents, to maintain the integrity of the organelles. The homogenates were then fractionated by differential centrifugation: two fractions were isolated containing, respectively, particles sedimenting at 500 g (P1) and 100 000 g (P2), and a third fraction containing the 100 000 g supernatant (PNS2). An equal amount of total protein from each fraction was analysed by SDS-PAGE and protein blot, using antibodies against GFP (which recognize YFP as well) and the ER marker BiP. As shown in Fig. 11, BiP and OEP7::GFP were enriched in the P2 and P1 fractions, respectively. YFP::At5g was highly enriched in the P2 fraction whereas YFP::At1g was present in both P1 and P2 fractions, with a slight enrichment in the former. These results are largely consistent with the localizations indicated by fluorescence; the presence of a minor but relevant proportion of YFP::At1g in the P2 fraction could reflect enrichment of stromules in the 100 000 g pellet with respect to the 500 g pellet. Alternatively, this proportion of YFP::At1g could be localized on the mitochondria, which often contaminate the 100 000 g microsomal fraction. These results were also confirmed by the expression of the two OP3-tagged form At5g-Nglyc and At1g-Nglyc in living tobacco protoplasts: while the first was totally glycosylated, the second never acquired the glycan (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! DNA manipulations were carried out by standard techniques (CITATION; CITATION). The absence of errors in fragments generated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or in synthetic oligonucleotide cassettes was verified by sequencing. The rabbit cyt b5 forms b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc were derived from the plasmid pCB6, described in CITATION. To express this cDNA as well as the other b5 constructs transiently, in plant cells, the b5 insert was placed under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter by subcloning it into pDHA vector (Tabe et al., 1994). The coding sequences of b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc were excised from the pCB6 vector by digestion with BglII and BamHI, and subcloned into pDHA linearized with BamHI (BglII and BamHI are compatible ends). The resulting constructs are termed pDHA-b5-Nglyc and pDHA-b5-RRNglyc, and are used for tobacco leaf protoplast transformation. To identify the A. thaliana cyt b5 polypeptides, the mammalian ER cyt b5 amino acid sequence was blasted against the entire Arabidopsis proteome of the TAIR site (Agi proteins), using the BLASTP function. Five putative cyt b5s were found and their cDNA coding sequences were determined. In this work, two of these cDNAs were used: At1g26340 and At5g48810, and their cDNA sequences were kindly provided by TAIR cDNA stock order service. The At1g26340 and At5g48810 cDNAs were provided inserted into the pUniT3-D/V5-His-TOPO vector and the pUni51 vector, respectively. To subclone these sequences into the expression pDHA vector, At1g26340 and At5g48810 cDNA were amplified by PCR standard reaction using the following primers: At1g26340 forward primer, 5′-GCTCTAGATGTGGATCCGGTGGTATGCCGACACTCACAAAGC-3′; reverse primer, 5′-ACATGCATGCGAGCTCCTCGAGTTAAGTCTTGCGAGAGAACAAG-3′; At5g48810 forward primer, 5′-GCTCTAGATGTGGATCCGGTGGTATGGGCGGAGACGGAAAA-3′; reverse primer, 5′-ACATGCATGCGAGCTCCTCGAGTCAAGAAGAAGGAGCCTTGGT-3′. The PCR products were digested with XbaI (at the 5′ end) and SphI (at the 3′ end) and subcloned into pDHA digested with XbaI and SphI. The resulting constructs were termed pDHA-At1g and pDHA-At5g. To fuse the N-terminus of Arabidopsis cyt b5 sequences in-frame with the GFP or YFP coding sequence (mGFP5 or EYFP, Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA), a three-way ligation was performed between At1g26340 or At5g48810 digested with BamHI/SphI, GFP or YFP cDNA digested with XbaI/BamHI, and pDHA digested with XbaI/SphI. The resulting constructs were termed pDHA-GFP::At1g, pDHA-GFP::At5g, pDHA-YFP::At1g, and pDHA-YFP::At5g. The EcoRI fragment excised from the pDHA-YFP::At1g or pDHA-YFP::At5g construct, which contain the 35S CaMV promoter, the coding sequence for cyt b5 forms, and the 35S terminator, was subcloned into EcoRI-linearized pGreenII0179 (http://www.pgreen.ac.uk, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK) which has the hygromycin resistance gene. These constructs, called pGreen-YFP::At1g and pGreen-YFP::At5g, were used to transform Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 by the freeze–thaw method (CITATION). A HindIII–EcoRI fragment containing the OEP7:GFP marker (CITATION) expression cassette was cloned into the same sites of pGreenII0029 for agroinfiltration. This and all other constructs used for agroinfiltration were also transformed into A. tumefaciens C58. To tag the 3′ end of At1g26340 and At5g48810 with the OP3 sequence, AgeI/XhoI restriction sites were introduced and the stop codon was first eliminated by PCR amplification using the following reverse primers (the forward primers were the same as described before) and Turbo Pfu polymerase (Stratagene): At1gΔStop reverse primer, 5′-AGCTCCTCGAGCTGCAGACCGGTAGAAGAAGGAGC-3′; At5gΔStop reverse primer, 5′-AGCGCACTCGAGCTGCAGACCGGTAGTCTTGCGAGAG-3′. The blunt PCR products were subcloned into the EcoRV site of pBlueScript KS+. The resulting constructs were termed pBS-At1gΔStop and pBs-At5gΔStop. pBS-At1gΔStop and pBS-At5gΔStop were digested with AgeI/XhoI, and a synthetic sequence obtained by pairing the following two phosphorylated complementary oligonucleotides were introduced: upper synthetic oligonucleotide (OP3+), 5′PHO-CCGGTATGAACGGAACAGAAGGACCAAACTTCTACGTACCATTCAGCAACAAAACAGTAGACTGAC-3′; lower synthetic oligonucleotide (OP3–), 5′PHO-TCGAGTCAGTCTACTGTTTTGTTGCTGAATGGTACGTAGAAGTTTGGTCCTTCTGTTCCGTTCATA-3′. The resulting constructs, termed pBS-At1g-Nglyc and pBS-At5g-Nglyc, were used for in vitro transcription from the SP6 promoter. Polyclonal antibodies against GFP were from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR, USA). Monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the N-terminal peptide of bovine opsin was kindly provided by Dr Paul Hargrave (CITATION). Polyclonal anti-BiP antiserum was raised against a recombinant fusion between maltose-binding protein and amino acids 551–667 of tobacco BiP (CITATION). b5-Nglyc and b5-RRNglyc in pGEM4 and At1g-Nglyc, and At5g-Nglyc in pBSKS were transcribed from the SP6 promoter. In vitro transcription of linearized plasmids was performed as previously described (CITATION). The resulting synthetic RNAs were translated for 1 h at 32 °C in 10 μl or 20 μl of reticulocyte lysate (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) in the presence of [35S]methionine (translation grade, Amersham Bioscences) as previously described (CITATION). In some cases, microsomes were added post-translationally: translation was blocked with RNase and equal amounts of the translation products (calculated by scanning densitometry) were incubated for 1 h at 25 °C in the presence of 2 μl of microsomes from Phaseolus vulgaris (PhasMR; CITATION). Translation–translocation products were analysed by 15% acrylamide SDS–PAGE and fluorography. Protoplasts were prepared from axenic leaves (4–7 cm long) of tobacco cv. Petit Havana SR1 and subjected to polyethylene glycol-mediated transfection as described by CITATION. A 40 μg aliquot of recombinant pDHA plasmids or pDHA without inserts (as a negative control for transfection) were used to transform protoplasts at a concentration of 106 cells ml−1. After transfection, protoplasts were allowed to recover overnight in the dark at 25 °C in K3 medium (CITATION) at a concentration of 106 cells ml−1 before pulse–chase experiments, fixation, or protoplast lysis were performed. Transfected protoplasts expressing the selected construct were lysed 24 h after transfection with 2 vols of ice-cold lysis buffer (150 mM TRIS-HCl, 150 mM NaCl, 1.5 mM EDTA, and 1.5% Triton X-100, pH 7.5) supplemented with complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). After clarification by centrifugation at 500 g for 5 min, the Triton-soluble proteins corresponding to 300 000 protoplasts were subjected to digestion with 2000 U of Endo H from New England Biolabs (Beverly, MA, USA), using the reagents and the protocol supplied by the manufacturer. After 1 h of incubation, the samples were supplemented with Laemmli denaturation buffer and analysed by SDS-PAGE and protein blotting or SDS-PAGE and fluorography. Radioactive labelling of protoplasts was performed using Pro-Mix (a mixture of [35S]methionine and [35S]cysteine; Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK) as described by CITATION. Protoplast homogenization was performed by adding to frozen samples 2 vols of ice-cold homogenization buffer (150 mM TRIS-HCl, 150 mM NaCl, 1.5 mM EDTA, and 1.5% Triton X-100, pH 7.5) supplemented with complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Immunoselection with anti-GFP antibodies was performed as described previously (CITATION) using protein A–Sepharose (Amersham Biosciences). Radioactive samples were analysed by SDS-PAGE on 15% acrylamide gels. Rainbow 14C-methylated proteins (Amersham Biosciences) were used as molecular weight markers. Radioactive polypeptides were revealed by fluorography. Gels usually were treated with 2,5-diphenyloxazole dissolved in dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) and dried. Alternatively, gels were dried without treatment and exposed using the intensifying screen BioMax Transcreen LE (Kodak, Rochester, NY, USA). Measurement of the relative intensities of the bands in the fluorographs was determined by microdensitometry. Care was taken to use film exposures that were in the linear range of film darkening. At 24 h after transfection 2×106 protoplasts were pelleted by addition of 4 vols of W5 medium (CITATION) and centrifuged at 50 g for 10 min. The protoplasts were resuspended in 0.8 ml of Differential C buffer (DiffC; 0.5 M sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES, 1/25 Complete Boehringer, pH 7.0). Protoplast lysis was achieved using a 2.5 ml syringe fitted with a 10 μm nylon mesh held in place over the open end of the barrel with a rubber O-ring. The protoplasts were slowly drawn into the syringe and then slowly ejected through the mesh. The suspension was examined under a light microscope after each passage to determine the minimum number of passages necessary to achieve complete breakage. Usually, two passages through the 10 μm mesh or three passages through the 20 μm mesh, respectively, were sufficient to break most of the protoplasts. Cell fractions were recovered by centrifuging the lysate at 500 g for 2 min at 4 °C, using a swinging bucket rotor. The pellet was resuspended into 0.8 ml of DiffC and called P1. The supernatant was collected and centrifuged again at 100 000 g for 30 min, 4 °C, using an SW55 rotor (Beckman) to recover the microsomal fraction. The pellet was resuspended into 80 μl of DiffC. This pellet comprised the microsomal and mitochondrial fractions (P2), and the supernatant comprised the cytosolic and vacuolar fractions (PNS2). In each fraction, the total protein concentration was determined with Sigma Bradford Reagent. The subcellular fractions were aliquoted into small volumes and stored at −70 °C. For SDS-PAGE and protein blotting analysis, equal amounts of total protein from each fraction were loaded on the gels. At 24 h after transfection, 106 protoplasts expressing b5-Nglyc, b5-RRNglyc, or control protoplasts were washed with 4 vols of W5 medium, pelletted for 10 min at 600 rpm, and resuspended in MaCa buffer [0.5 mM mannitol, 20 mM CaCl2, and 0.1% (w/v) MES, pH 5.7] containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde for 2 h at room temperature. After fixation, cells were washed with 4 vols of W5 medium and permeabilized with TSW buffer (10 mM TRIS–HCl pH 7.4, 0.4 M NaCl, 0.25% gelatin, 0.02% SDS, 0.3% Triton X-100) for 30 min. Then 3×105 cells were incubated with the appropriate primary antibody diluted in TSW for 1 h at room temperature. Primary antibodies were: the mAb anti-OP3 (CITATION; dilution 1:300) or the polyclonal anti-BiP antiserum (CITATION; dilution 1:1000) in combination with anti-OP3 mAb (for the double staining). After three washes in TSW, cells were incubated for 1 h at room temperature with Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse highly cross-adsorbed secondary antibody alone or Alexa488 goat anti-mouse plus the Alexa Fluor 568 goat anti-rabbit highly cross-adsorbed secondary antibody, both at a dilution of 1:1000 (Invitrogen-Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA). After three final washes in TSW, cells were resuspended in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)/glycerol supplemented with 0.1% phenylendiammine, an antifade agent. Cells were visualized with a Leica SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a 63× oil immersion objective. Alexa Fluor 488 and Alexa Fluor 568 were detected at 488 nm excitation/520 nm emmission, and 543 nm excitation/616 nm emission, respectively. The thickness of the optical sections is specified in the legend of Fig. 3. Leaves from young 4- to 6-week-old Nicotiana tabacum (cv Petit Havana SR1) were infiltrated with A. tumefaciens containing the appropriate plasmid at an optical density of 0.03 as described previously (CITATION). Leaves were incubated for 2–3 d at 25 °C in daylight before observation. Small sections of infiltrated leaves were placed on a microscope slide using double-sided tape and visualized without a coverslip with a 63× water immersion objective attached to a Leica SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. Simultaneous visualization of GFP, YFP, and chlorophyll autofluorescence was performed using the sequential scanning facility of the microscope. Photomultiplier gain and offset were optimized to maximize each detector's dynamic range using the ‘glow over and under’ lookup table within the SP2 confocal acquisition software. Figure compositions were assembled using Adobe Photoshop 6.0.
