!~ABS~! General transcription factor IID (TFIID) is a multisubunit protein complex involved in promoter recognition and is fundamental to the nucleation of the RNA polymerase II transcriptional preinitiation complex. TFIID is comprised of the TATA binding protein (TBP) and 12–15 TBP-associated factors (TAFs). While general transcription factors have been extensively studied in metazoans and yeast, little is known about the details of their structure and function in the plant kingdom. This work represents the first attempt to compare the structure of a plant TFIID complex with that determined for other organisms. While no TAF3 homolog has been observed in plants, at least one homolog has been identified for each of the remaining 14 TFIID subunits, including both TAF14 and TAF15 which have previously been shown to be unique to either yeast or humans. The presence of both TAFs 14 and 15 in plants suggests ancient roles for these proteins that were lost in metazoans and fungi, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid interaction assays resulted in a total of 65 binary interactions between putative subunits of Arabidopsis TFIID, including 26 contacts unique to plants. The interaction matrix of Arabidopsis TAFs is largely consistent with the three-lobed topological map for yeast TFIID, which suggests that the structure and composition of TFIID have been highly conserved among eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Using homology-based searches of the A. thaliana genomic sequence database, 21 loci encoding putative TAFs have been identified. Table 1 lists all identified cDNAs or genes used in this study and provides information regarding loci, accession numbers, CDS size, protein molecular weight, and presence of a histone-fold domain. Of the 21 loci that were identified, we isolated cDNAs for 19, being unable to clone AtTAF1b and AtTAF11b. We were, however, able to clone all four AtTAF6 splicing variants, and these were included in our analysis. Although we were unable to isolate a full-length cDNA of TAF1, we did observe a ∼6 kb PCR product in reactions targeting the full length CDS. This product was recalcitrant to further amplification and cloning in BP reactions (Gateway system, Invitrogen). We, therefore, cloned TAF1 in three separate overlapping fragments and smaller subfragments: TAF11–884, TAF1587–1417, TAF11326–1919 and specific regions corresponding to the ubiquitin domain (TAF1UbD; aa 587–884) and the bromodomain (TAF1BD, aa 1801–1919). The 22 cDNAs that we were able to isolate were incorporated into our yeast two-hybrid protein-protein interaction matrix. The MaV204K strain was selected for bait transformations because it carries the SPLA10::URA3 reporter which allowed testing for spurious activation on 0.1% 5′FOA medium (Boeke et al. CITATION). Thus, bait constructs in MaV204K were plated on SD -Trp, +0.1% 5′FOA. In the event that the bait protein contained an activation domain, the URA3 gene product would catalyze the formation of a toxic product from 5′FOA, preventing yeast growth and indicating an unsuitable bait construct for yeast two-hybrid analysis. The AtTAF7, AtTAF12, and AtTAF15 bait constructs were spurious activators defined by the lack of growth on 5’FOA containing plates. These bait constructs were thus excluded from further studies. It was also found that the TAF11326–1919 prey construct interacted with the empty vector Gal4 DBD control leading to the omission of this construct from the final matrix. The AtTAF12 prey construct also caused the activation of the reporter genes, and thus, AtTAF12 was cloned as N-terminal (aa 1–200), middle (aa 201–394), and C-terminal (aa 395–539) fragments into the pENTR/D-topo vector and subcloned into the bait and prey vectors as detailed above. The bait proteins that interacted with the Gal4 AD alone (AtTAF11–884, AtTAF121-200, AtTAF12395–538 and AtTAF15b) formed colonies with a frequency of over 70% of their matings and were, therefore, excluded from analysis. The screening of bait and prey constructs was conducted in two steps. The first consisted of an initial screen based on the number of colonies per selection plate in a dilution series of matings coupled with enzymatic assays for β-Gal activity. Pair-wise interaction partners identified in the mating assays were doubly transformed into yeast strain AH109 and reassessed for protein interaction. This second test consisted of a simple positive or negative assessment of colony growth by the double transformants on selection plates and by detection of α-Gal activity visually by the formation of blue colonies. Table 2 shows all interactions and denotes positive tests as follows: (1) initial yeast mating-based two-hybrid growth; (2) β-Gal activity higher than controls with 95% confidence; (3) growth of doubly transformed AH109 on selective media; and (4) α-Gal activity visible from AH109 double transformants. More than 70% of the interactions identified in the first round of screening (matings) were reconfirmed by two or more of the subsequent tests. Of the interaction tests listed in Table 2, 506 were conducted in reciprocal fashion. Considering interactions in both bait/prey combinations, there were 82 positive interactions, with 48.8% being either reciprocal or representing homodimer formation. If reciprocal interactions are counted as one, a total of 65 discrete interactions were detected between the subunits of Arabidopsis TFIID. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] β-Gal activity from the initial mating screen provided a quantitative estimate of interaction strength. The averaged β-Gal assay values passing the Student’s T-test with 95% confidence are shown in Fig. 1. More than half of the 11 strongest interactions (activity >2 units) comprise histone-fold binding pairs. This supports a common theme with yeast and metazoan TFIID that the histone-fold binding pairs are key structural components of the complex. [[FIGURE]]  While the colony growth and β-Gal assays were found to be useful, control experiments were conducted in order to evaluate the significance of the results. For instance, the highest β-Gal activity that we observed was with an AtTAF11326–1919 homodimer (data not shown). AtTAF11326–1919 as a prey construct was originally found to interact with AtTAF11801–1919 and itself, and this was confirmed by the co-transformation test (second screening). However, Gal4AD-AtTAF11326–1919 was also found to interact with the empty pGBKT7 vector and weakly with AtTAF11, a protein that previously showed no interactions. Furthermore, the Gal4 DBD-AtTAF11326–1919 construct failed to interact with any prey constructs with the exception of the above mentioned Gal4AD-AtTAF11326–1919. This raises an additional question regarding the validity of the Gal4AD-AtTAF11801–1919 interaction. Because of the potential for self-activation or non-specificity, the results from the Gal4 AD-AtTAF11326–1919 assays were discounted as indications of biologically significant interactions and have not been included in Fig. 1 or Table 2. In addition, it must be noted that β-Gal activities of prey constructs may include an undetermined contribution from weak self-activation. Our observed positive interaction rate of 11.8% is broadly in agreement with the results of Yatherajam et al. (CITATION) in their evaluation of yeast TFIID subunit interactions, where 17% of the potential contacts tested resulted in strong to intermediate interactions in the two-hybrid assay, and another 8% demonstrated possible weak interactions. In general, the relatively low number of interacting partners among the Arabidopsis TFIID subunits suggests that interactions were direct and not secondarily mediated by endogenous yeast general transcription factor components. Were molecular bridging occurring, interactions between two proteins that have a common interactor would be expected. For example, AtTAF4b interacted strongly with both AtTAF9 and AtTAF12b. If molecular bridging of AtTAF9 with AtTAF12b occurred through the endogenous yeast TAF4, then an AtTAF9-AtTAF12b interaction would have been observed, and it was not (Table 2). Immunoblots to detect bait and prey proteins demonstrated a large variability in protein expression levels regardless of indications of interactions with other TAFs. Approximately half of the GAL4 AD-fusion proteins were readily detectable, but some appeared to have altered mobility forms (Supplementary Fig. 1A). In contrast, only a few GAL4 DBD-fusion proteins were detectable (AtTAFs 8, 10, 13, 14 and 14b; Supplementary Fig. 1B). No significant correlation between colony growth and the presence of detectable bait or prey proteins was evident. For instance, TAF5 was not detected in either blot; however, it readily interacted with several other AtTAFs in the matrix (Table 2). It is possible that the lack of colony growth in the yeast two-hybrid assay was solely due to low levels of expressed protein in those constructs that showed no detectable protein by western analysis. However, it is unlikely that any of the bait or prey constructs expressed no protein at all, since each construct (with the exception of AtTAF2) supported growth in at least one mating combination tested here and in a larger study that included subunit proteins of other Arabidopsis general transcription factors (Lawit et al., manuscript in preparation). In an attempt to test function of the putative AtTAFs, complementation tests were conducted to determine if Arabidopsis TAFs could substitute for their homologs in yeast. Four AtTAF cDNAs were cloned into a yeast expression vector (pRS314-derived, Stratagene) and introduced into TAF mutant yeast strains containing the corresponding yeast gene residing on a vector harboring the URA3 gene (Klebanow et al. CITATION). Growth of transformants on 5′FOA plates resulted from exclusion of the yTAF-bearing plasmid and was indicative of complementation. Positive and negative controls were conducted using the appropriate yTAFs. The results shown in Table 3 demonstrate that none of the Arabidopsis TAFs tested (AtTAFs 9, 10, 11 and 12) were able to substitute for their yeast homologs. Although it is possible that none of the four putative AtTAFs are genuine subunits of TFIID, a more likely explanation is that despite much overall sequence conservation, TAFs in yeast and plants have diverged to the extent that critical functions have undergone organism-specific specialization. This is supported by the finding that human TAF9 could not complement the yeast TAF9 as well.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! Total RNA was extracted from A. thaliana suspension cells using a Plant RNeasy kit with on-column DNAse treatment (Qiagen, USA). First strand cDNA synthesis was performed with 1 μg of Arabidopsis total RNA as a template, anchored oligo-dT primers, and Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, USA). Primers listed in Supplementary Table 1 were used to PCR amplify the corresponding AtTAFs from the cDNA using Platinum Pfx (Invitrogen) and varying cycle parameters based on primer specifications. AtTAF12b was subcloned from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) clone U11077. PCR products for TBPs, full length TAFs and their subfragments were cloned into pENTR/D-Topo (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and transformed into chemically competent One Shot TOP10 E. coli cells (Invitrogen). All constructs were subsequently transferred to their respective destination vectors using Gateway protocols. Primers used to PCR amplify AtTAF1subfragments, AtTAF2 and AtTAF4 contained attB sites and were recombined by BP reactions into pDONR207 according to manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen). All AtTAF and TBP cDNA clones were verified by full insert-sequencing and are listed in Table 1. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] TAF mutant yeast strains carrying wild type copies of the corresponding yTAFs on URA3 plasmids (YSB373–TAF11, YSB377-TAF11, YSB590-TAF12 and YEK16-TAF10) were provided by Stephen Buratowski (Klebanow et al. CITATION; Komarnitsky et al. CITATION; Michel et al. CITATION). AtTAFs 9–12, hTAF9 and yTAFs 9–12 were subcloned into pRS314 and transformed into the appropriate yeast strains as listed in Table 1. To test for complementarity, the strains carrying the pRS314 clones were streaked on SD -Trp, +0.1% 5′ fluoroorotic acid (5′FOA). The strains would grow only if the pRS314 clones were capable of complementing the yTAFs that were being lost with the URA3 (pJA73) plasmids. Yeast two-hybrid vectors pGAD-T7 and pGBK-T7 (Clontech, USA) were adapted to the Gateway system by digesting both plasmids with SmaI and subsequent ligation with the Gateway conversion cassette B (Invitrogen). Sequence-verified pENTR/D-Topo constructs were recombined in vitro successively through pGAD-T7, pDONR207 and pGBK-T7 Gateway vectors using LR and BP Clonase reactions (Invitrogen) and transformed into electro-competent MACH1 E. coli (Invitrogen). The resultant yeast two-hybrid bait (contains Gal4 DNA binding domain; Gal4 DBD) and prey (contains Gal4 activation domain; Gal4 AD) constructs were transformed into MaV204K provided by Dr. T. Ito, Kanazawa University, Japan (Ito et al. CITATION) and AH109 (Clontech) yeast strains, respectively. All transformations of vector plasmids were conducted using the Frozen-EZ Yeast Transformation II system (Zymo Research, USA). Bait/MaV204K and prey/AH109 transformants were then mated and selected on SD -Trp, -Leu and SD -Trp, -Leu, -His, -Ade (high stringency) to test for mating efficiency and interaction, respectively. Yeast matings were performed similarly to the protocol in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook (1999). Ten μl of overnight mating cultures was serially diluted 10-fold, three successive times. From each dilution, 3 μl of cell suspension were removed and spotted in a grid on both SD -Trp, -Leu and SD -Trp, -Leu, -His, -Ade screening plates (25 cm × 25 cm). The plates were then incubated at 30°C and monitored for growth over a period of 14 days. Quantitative β-galactosidase (β-Gal) assays were performed using CPRG substrate (Roche, Germany) according to the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook. Colonies used to inoculate the cultures for this test were taken from the SD -Trp, -Leu plates, thus eliminating selection for false positive interaction. All values were expressed as Miller units (Miller CITATION; Miller CITATION). The β-Gal assay values were analyzed against their appropriate control values using a heteroscedastic, one-tailed distribution Student’s T-test. Interactions initially designated as positive for growth on selective media (irrespective of normalized β-Gal values) were retested by co-transforming all identified pGADT7-AtTAF/pGBKT7-AtTAF interacting pairs into yeast strain AH109 and selecting on SD -Leu, -Trp. In addition, each construct was co-transformed with a non-interacting AtTAF and pGBKT7/pGADT7 empty vector as negative controls. Yeast co-transformants were picked and patched onto SD -Leu, -Trp and SD -Leu, -Trp, -His, -Ade, X-α-Gal (high stringency). Transformants that grew and turned blue on the high-stringency media within 3–4 days were scored as positive for interaction.
