!~ABS~! Calmodulins (CaMs) are the most ubiquitous calcium sensors in eukaryotes. A number of CaM-binding proteins have been identified through classical methods, and many proteins have been predicted to bind CaMs based on their structural homology with known targets. However, multicellular organisms typically contain many CaM-like (CML) proteins, and a global identification of their targets and specificity of interaction is lacking. In an effort to develop a platform for large-scale analysis of proteins in plants we have developed a protein microarray and used it to study the global analysis of CaM/CML interactions. An Arabidopsis thaliana expression collection containing 1,133 ORFs was generated and used to produce proteins with an optimized medium-throughput plant-based expression system. Protein microarrays were prepared and screened with several CaMs/CMLs. A large number of previously known and novel CaM/CML targets were identified, including transcription factors, receptor and intracellular protein kinases, F-box proteins, RNA-binding proteins, and proteins of unknown function. Multiple CaM/CML proteins bound many binding partners, but the majority of targets were specific to one or a few CaMs/CMLs indicating that different CaM family members function through different targets. Based on our analyses, the emergent CaM/CML interactome is more extensive than previously predicted. Our results suggest that calcium functions through distinct CaM/CML proteins to regulate a wide range of targets and cellular activities.
!~RES~! We constructed a plant expression vector, pLIC-C-TAP (FIG-REFA), that transiently overexpresses proteins fused to a tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag. This vector allows high-throughput cloning of PCR products by using ligation-independent cloning (LIC) (CITATION). The TAP tag lies downstream of the expressed ORF and is composed of a 9xMYC epitope, His-6, a rhinovirus 3C protease cleavage site, and the 2xIgG binding domain of protein A. [[FIGURE]] To generate the ATEC collection, ORFs from full-length cDNAs, ORFeome clones (CITATION), or Col-0 ecotype genomic DNA was PCR-amplified with primers designed to eliminate stop codons. Amplified PCR products were cloned into pLIC-C-TAP vector using a modified LIC cloning method as described in Materials and Methods. All inserts were sequenced across both ends of the vector-insert junctions. The current ATEC collection includes 1,133 Arabidopsis ORFs representing 404 putative and known protein kinases, 291 transcription factors, 113 protein degradation-related proteins, 108 proteins with unknown function, 63 heat-shock proteins, 58 cytochrome P450s, 51 CaMs/CMLs and putative CaM-binding proteins, 35 RNA-binding proteins, and 10 ATP/GTP-binding proteins [see supporting information (SI) Table 3]. One of the challenges of this work was to employ an expression strategy that resulted in the production of large numbers of high-quality Arabidopsis proteins for microarray-based assays. We therefore, initiated a pilot experiment in which a set of 96 protein kinases was produced and purified from a well established yeast expression system (CITATION) and a plant-based expression system. Immunoblot analyses of purified Arabidopsis kinases from yeast revealed that 90% of yeast strains produced detectable fusion proteins (data not shown). However, only 3–5% of the purified Arabidopsis kinases from yeast were active in the autophosphorylation assay (FIG-REFB). These results suggested that, although we were able to produce proteins using a yeast expression system, they might not be functional for activity. We therefore examined the expression of the same 96 kinases by using a Nicotiana benthamiana transient expression system. ATEC clones were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and cultures with individual ATEC clones were coinfiltrated with Agrobacterium culture containing P19 gene onto the leaves of 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants. The P19 protein from tomato bushy stunt virus has been shown to increase transient expression of a transgene (CITATION). Five days after infiltration, tissue was harvested, and soluble recombinant proteins were purified by an affinity purification strategy using IgG-Sepharose beads. The majority (82%) of the protein kinases purified by using this method were found to be active compared with same proteins purified from yeast (FIG-REFB). Therefore, we decided to use a plant-based expression system for our studies. Protein from the 1,133 ATEC clones were expressed in N. benthamiana and purified by using the method described above. The quantity and quality of purified proteins was examined by immunoblot analyses using anti-MYC epitope antibodies (FIG-REFC, representative blot). The majority of the recombinant proteins (81%) migrated as a single intact band of expected molecular weight, suggesting that full-size proteins were produced. We observed significant differences in abundance among the purified protein. Overall ≈90% of the proteins were detected by immunoblot analyses, with ≈65% of them accumulating at very high levels and the remaining 35% accumulating at moderate levels (data not shown). The differences in protein concentration in the purified samples could be accounted for by such factors as the variation in expression level and/or suboptimal purification conditions. We did not observe any bias toward high-molecular-weight proteins or membrane proteins in terms of expression levels. To prepare Arabidopsis protein microarrays, the 1,133 recombinant protein preparations were printed in duplicate onto nitrocellulose-coated glass slides. Buffer lacking protein was also printed at multiple positions on the slide to serve as a negative control. For detection of the proteins on the microarray, the slides were probed with antibodies to a MYC epitope tag, which crudely indicates the level of each fusion protein (FIG-REFA). [[FIGURE]] To identify CaM/CML-interacting proteins, the protein microarrays were probed in duplicate in the presence of calcium with CaM1, CaM6, CaM7, CML8, CML9, CML10, and CML12, which were amino-conjugated with an Alexa Fluor 647. The Arabidopsis protein microarrays were also probed with commercially available Alexa Flour 594-conjugated bovine CaM (BtCaM). Using the scoring system described in Materials and Methods, we found a total of 173 different proteins that bound the three CaMs and four CMLs (see SI Table 4). Representative CaM- and CML-interacting proteins are shown in Table 1 and FIG-REFB. Of the 173 total targets, 122 proteins interacted with CaM1, 99 with CaM6, 117 with CaM7, 77 with CML8, 113 with CML9, 102 with CML10, 86 with CML12, and 84 with bovine CaM (FIG-REFC; see also SI Table 4). Approximately 25% (44 of 173) of the proteins interacted with all CaMs/CMLs, whereas the same percentage of proteins interacted with only one CaM/CML (FIG-REFD; see also SI Table 4). The remaining 50% of the proteins bound to two or more CaMs/CMLs. To determine the specificity of binding of CaM/CMLs to their targets, we tested eight proteins that bind all CaM/CMLs in the presence and absence of EGTA. At least in seven cases, binding was reduced significantly in the presence of EGTA (data not shown). Representative CaM- and CML-binding proteins identified on protein microarrays Our analyses identified six of nine previously known Arabidopsis homologs of CaM targets, including SAUR protein (At5g20810), a phosphofructokinase (At5g47810), a diacylglycerol kinase (At5g63770), Hsp70–1 (At5g02500), TGA3 (At1g22070), and WRKY21 (At2g30590) (CITATION). However, three targets (At4g30360, At5g60390, and At3g09440) that are predicted to bind CaM were not detected in our analyses. In addition to known targets, we also identified a significant number of CaM/CML targets that were previously uncharacterized (SI Tables 5–7). These targets include 70 putative intracellular and receptor protein kinases, 60 transcription factors, and 43 other classes of proteins. The transcription factors included MADS box, bZIP, MYB, WRKY, Scarecrow, NAM, AUX/IAA, and SAUR_B family proteins. Other classes of proteins included cell-cycle-specific proteins, F-box proteins, RNA-binding proteins, cytochrome P450s, Ca2+-binding EF-hand proteins, and proteins of unknown function. Arabidopsis CaMs (CaM1–CaM7) show remarkable sequence similarity (CITATION). CaM1 differs from CaM7 by four amino acids, and CaM6 differs from CaM7 by only a single amino acid. Interestingly, in our cluster analyses, CaM1 and CaM7 targets cluster together relative to CaM6 targets (FIG-REFE; see also SI Fig. 5). Among the targets of CMLs, CML8 and CML12 targets cluster together, and CML9 and CML10 targets cluster together (FIG-REFE). The targets of CML8 and CML12 showed the highest divergence compared with the other CaMs/CMLs (FIG-REFE). Thus, the amino acid differences of the different CaMs/CMLs confer different target specificities. We used Cytoscape software (CITATION) to generate a bipartite interaction network map between different CaMs/CMLs and their targets (FIG-REF; see also SI Fig. 6). Our analyses identified four hubs containing different CaMs/CMLs based on the similarity in their target preference. The largest hub contains CaM1, CaM6, CaM7, CML9, and CML10. These CaMs/CMLs share more common targets and form a highly interconnected cluster. Hubs containing CML8 and CML12 interacted with a larger number of unique targets or had a more restricted target set. A separate hub in the network represents the BtCaM that showed substrate similarity with the other Arabidopsis CaMs/CMLs. [[FIGURE]] We generated subnetworks corresponding to CaM targets belonging to receptor-like protein kinases, WRKY and TGA transcription factors, and calcium-dependent protein kinases (FIG-REF B–D; see also SI Fig. 7). Some of the predicted targets in the subnetwork analysis were shown previously to bind CaMs. Other predicted targets contain known CaM-binding motifs (SI Fig. 8). These results indicate that protein microarray-based approaches can be used to identify CaM/CML target interaction networks. To validate the interactions identified on the protein microarray, in vivo coimmunoprecipitation assays were performed for many of the CaMs and their targets. HA-tagged CaM1, CaM6, CaM7, and CML9 were coexpressed in N. benthamiana plants with 20 targets tagged with MYC epitope (Table 2). Immunoprecipitation of total protein extracts derived from the cotransfected leaves was performed by using anti-HA antibody, and the complexes were analyzed by immunoblot analysis using anti-MYC antibodies (FIG-REF). Our experiments confirmed 53% (52 of 80) of the interactions that were detected on the protein microarray (FIG-REF and Table 2). We were able to coimmunoprecipitate 17 targets with at least one CaM or CML. In addition to known targets like SAUR_B and TGA3, several interactions that we confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation analyses were previously unknown. These targets include CIPK6, CIPK24, CDC2-like protein kinases, and an unknown F-box protein, WRKY43, WRKY53 and IAA31 transcription factors, and putative peptidyl-prolyl-cis-transisomerases. Confirmed CaM/CML targets by coimmunoprecipitation assays [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Each Arabidopsis ORF was amplified by using gene-specific primers containing LIC-compatible extensions, either from cDNA or ORFeome (CITATION) collections or from Col-0 genomic DNA. The primers included the first 25 or 26 nucleotides of the ORF, including the ATG start codon, and the last 25 or 26 nucleotides, excluding the stop codon. The LIC forward (5′-GCACAAGAAGGTCC-3′) and reverse (5′-GAAGAAGAGAGGTGC-3′) sequences were added at the 5′ ends of the each primer set. The PCR conditions used to clone ORFs are available upon request. Purified PCR product (50 ng) and pLIC-C-TAP StuI-cut vector were treated with T4 DNA polymerase in the presence of 25 mM dATP and dTTP, respectively, for 30 min at 22°C followed by heat inactivation at 75°C for 20 min. A 10-μl mixture of treated PCR fragments and vector was incubated at 65°C for 2 min and 22°C for 10 min and transformed into DH10B E. coli cells. Plasmid DNA prepared from the transformants was sequenced from both ends of the insert and verified against The Arabidopsis Information Resource database. Sequence-verified ATEC clones were transformed into GV2260 A. tumefaciens. A single Agrobacterium containing ATEC construct was cultured for 14–16 h at 26°C. The bacteria were pelleted at 3,000 × g for 20 min, resuspended in infiltration media (10 mM MES/10 mM MgSO4/200 μM acetosyringone) and adjusted to an OD600 of 0.5 and incubated at room temperature (RT) for at least 2 h. Agrobacterium cultures transformed with P19 were resuspended in infiltration media to an OD600 of 0.8–0.9. Equal volumes of ATEC and P19 cultures were mixed and infiltrated into N. benthamiana plants by using a 1-ml needleless syringe. Four days after infiltration, the leaves were collected and stored at −80°C. Tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen and mixed 1:1 (vol/wt) with an extraction buffer [100 mm Tris·HCl (pH 7.5)/150 mM NaCl/5 mM EDTA/10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol/10% glycerol/0.1% Triton X-100/1× Complete protease inhibitors (Roche, St. Louis, MO)/ 1 mM PMSF] and 50 μl of 0.5-mm glass beads (Biospec Products, Bartlesville, OK). The mixture was processed by beating in a paint shaker (5G-HD; Harbil, Wheeling, IL) three times for 1 min each, and lysates were centrifuged for 10 min at 14,000 × g. The supernatants were loaded onto a 96-well, 2-ml glass-filled polypropylene box (GF/C UniFilter, Whatman, Brentford, United Kingdom) and centrifuged for 15 min at 1,000 × g. The supernatants were collected in a 96-well PCR plate (ABgene, Epsom, United Kingdom) and IgG Sepharose 6 Fast Flow beads (Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Sweden) was added and incubated at 4°C on shaker for 2 h. After centrifugation at 3,000 × g for 1 min, IgG beads were washed three times in washing buffer (extraction buffer plus 350 mM NaCl) and incubated with 1 unit of PreScission protease (Amersham Biosciences) at 4°C for 10 h. Mixtures were centrifuged at 3,000 × g for 1 min, and the supernatants containing recombinant proteins were transferred to new 96-well PCR plates, mixed with glycerol to a final concentration of 30%, and stored at −80°C. Each protein was arrayed in duplicate spots onto FAST slides (Schleicher & Schuell, Keene, NH) with 48-pin contact printer (Chip Writer Pro; Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). The arrayed proteins were air-dried at 4°C and transferred to −80°C for storage. Slides were blocked in SuperBlock buffer (Pierce, Rockford, IL) for 1–2 h at RT and incubated with a 1:2,500 dilution of MYC epitope antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) for 1 h. Slides were washed three times in TBS-T (20 mM Tris/137 mM NaCl/0.1% Tween 20) and incubated in the Cy5-conjugated anti-mouse IgG (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA) for 1 h at RT. Slides were washed three times in TBS-T, spun-dried, and scanned in a Genepix 4200A scanner (Axon Instruments, Sunnyvale, CA). Protein microarrays were probed with Alexa Fluor 647-labeled AtCaMs/CMLs or Alexa Fluor 594-conjugated BtCaM (Molecular Probes, Carlsbad, CA). Probing buffer (200 μl; 50 mM Tris·HCl, pH 7.5/150 mM NaCl/ 5 mM CaCl2) containing 50 μl of purified labeled CaM/CML was applied onto each slide and covered with HybriSlip. The slides were incubated for 1 h in a humid chamber at RT, washed three times in a probing buffer containing 0.1% Tween 20 and 1% glycerol. Slides were spun-dried and scanned in a Genepix 4200A scanner. The scanned microarray images were subsequently preprocessed by using the Genepix software to obtain report files containing the mean, median, and standard deviation of array spots and background regions. The data from Genepix report files were further analyzed with Matlab to evaluate the efficiency of the protein binding on slides. Microarray data were then processed with Perl and Awk scripts to obtain protein–protein interaction data. Protein interaction prediction, hypothesis testing, and network analysis were performed by using Matlab scripts. CaM protein interaction profiles were grouped with Cluster and visualized by using TreeView. The protein interaction network was visualized with Cytoscape (CITATION). CaM/CML target predictions were performed by using the methods described in SI Materials and Methods.
