!~ABS~! DORNRÖSCHEN (DRN) (also known as ENHANCER OF SHOOT REGENERATION1; ESR1) and DRN-LIKE (DRNL; also known as ESR2) are two linked paralogues encoding AP2 domain-containing proteins. drn mutants show embryo cell patterning defects and, similarly to drnl mutants, disrupt cotyledon development at incomplete penetrance. drn drnl double mutants with weak or strong drnl alleles show more highly penetrant and extreme phenotypes, including a pin-like embryo without cotyledons, confirming a high degree of functional redundancy for the two genes in embryo patterning. Altered expression of PIN1::PIN1-GFP and DR5::GFP in drn mutant embryos places DRN upstream of auxin transport and response. A yeast two-hybrid screen with DRN followed by co-immunoprecipitation and bimolecular fluorescence complementation revealed PHAVOLUTA (PHV) to be a protein interaction partner in planta. drn phv double mutants show an increased penetrance of embryo cell division defects. DRNL can also interact with PHV and both DRN and DRNL can heterodimerise with additional members of the class III HD-ZIP family, PHABULOSA, REVOLUTA, CORONA and ATHB8. Interactions involve the PAS-like C-terminal regions of these proteins and the DRN/DRNL AP2 domain.
!~RES~! The position of the insertion in the drn-1 allele is after nucleotide +327 (relative to the ATG) of the DRN gene, within the AP2-domain coding region. For drn-2, the insertion is after nucleotide +7 of the DRN ORF, and for drnl-1 it is after nucleotide +777. The drnl-2 allele has a base substitution from C to T at position +278, resulting in an A to V substitution at amino acid 93. This conserved A residue has recently been shown in Brassica napus ERF/AP2 proteins to be essential for DNA binding (CITATION), suggesting that the drnl-2 AP2 domain is unable to bind target genes. For the phv 899_CO2 allele, the insertion is after nucleotide +84. The major phenotype of the drn mutant is abnormal cell division, observable from the globular embryo stage onwards (Table 2). The wild-type globular embryo contacts the single file of cells known as the suspensor through the hypophysis, which divides asymmetrically in the globular embryo to give: (1) an upper lens-shaped cell (see Fig. 1A,B), which is the progenitor of the quiescent centre; and (2) a subtending daughter cell, which will generate the columella stem cells. It is at the transition from globular to heart stage that cell divisions parallel to the surface at lateral marginal positions give rise to the emerging cotyledon lobes (CITATION). drnl mutants showed no embryo development defects. By contrast, approximately half (48.0%) of homozygous drn-1 embryos exhibited a phenotype consisting of abnormal development in the hypophysis region, or no obvious distinction between embryo proper and suspensor. In a few percent of drn mutants, the hypophyseal cell divided periclinally at an early stage (Fig. 1C), resulting in the absence of the lens-shaped cell and a subsequent haphazard cellular organisation of this region (Fig. 1D,F). At a similar frequency, suspensors of drn mutants had double or triple cell files (Fig. 1E), presumably resulting from supernumerary cell divisions perpendicular to the normal plane of division. Both drn and drnl single mutants showed defective cotyledon development phenotypes at incomplete penetrance, including monocotyledonous seedlings, seedlings with partially fused cotyledons, tricots or various tricot fusion combinations (Table 2 and Fig. 1G-I). Completely fused or cup-shaped cotyledons were occasionally observed (<1%) in both drn mutant alleles, and these plants produced a functional SAM and developed normally (Table 2 and Fig. 1J,K). Also rare (<1%) were plants with a single cotyledon-like structure, no hypocotyl and a rudimentary root (Fig. 1L,M), reminiscent of mp (CITATION) and bdl (CITATION) seedlings, which are mutants in ARF5 (CITATION) and its IAA12 partner protein (CITATION). The lower penetrance in drn mutants of cotyledon defects as compared with cell division defects indicates that embryo cell patterning defects are not manifested in post-germination development.    Phenotypes of drn, drnl, phv and drn drnl double mutants  Inappropriate cotyledon development in drn or drnl mutants resulted in subsequent alterations of leaf phyllotaxy: a single leaf initiated opposite single fused cotyledons (Fig. 1N), or, in the case of tricots, three leaf primordia initiated between the cotyledons (Fig. 1O). Cleared monocotyledonous drn-1 and drnl-1 cotyledons either showed a wild-type vasculature pattern (Fig. 1P) with a single midvein (Fig. 1Q), or two or more mid-veins (Fig. 1R), showing that the cotyledon derived from either a single cotyledon primordium or from the fusion of two discrete primordia. Both alternatives suggest the improper recruitment of cells into developing cotyledon primordia, and the improper establishment or maintenance of organ boundaries during organogenesis. In view of the drn embryo mutant phenotype, we reinvestigated the drn-D overexpression mutant (CITATION) for more subtle phenotypes. The main phenotype is an enlarged SAM and vegetative meristem arrest coupled with the initiation of radialised leaves (CITATION). However, ectopic DRN expression also affects embryonic development; polycotyledony was occasionally observed (>1%; see Fig. S1A in the supplementary material). Postembryonic developmental phenotypes were also observed, including the fusion of leaf margins, fusion between stems and leaves and variable floral organ number (>2-3% of plants; see Fig. S1B-E in the supplementary material), implying that DRN contributes to organogenesis and patterning throughout development. The incomplete penetrance and similarity of drn and drnl single-mutant cotyledon phenotypes suggest redundant gene functions. We therefore created double mutants between drn-1 and either drnl-1 or the stronger allele drnl-2. Embryonic cell patterning defects were observed in essentially all (90 of 96) drn-1 drnl-1 double-mutant embryos (Fig. 1S,T), considerably higher than the frequency for drn-1 single-mutant embryos (Table 2). drn-1 drnl-1 double mutants also showed pleiotropic cotyledon phenotypes, including those observed in the single mutants (Table 2). However, the most significant feature of the drn-1 drnl-1 double mutant was a large increase in phenotypic penetrance: the mp-like phenotype was observed in 20% of mutants, and cotyledon defects in 30%, raising the total penetrance of plants with a phenotype to about 50% (Table 2). Double-homozygous drn-1 drnl-2 plants are sterile, but approximately a quarter of the progeny of drn-1 drnl-2/DRNL plants had pin-like embryos, with a complete absence of cotyledons (Fig. 1U). These plants were genotyped as double-homozygous mutants and directly initiated leaves from a functional SAM (Fig. 1V). In view of the genetic redundancy observed between DRN and DRNL, we investigated whether the expression patterns of these genes overlapped in Arabidopsis embryos using RNA in situ hybridisation. DRN is expressed from the four-cell stage (CITATION) and throughout the globular embryo (Fig. 2A). At the transition stage, DRN expression was localised to the apical cell tiers (Fig. 2B), and throughout the heart stage it became increasingly restricted to the lobes of the developing cotyledons (Fig. 2C). From the mature heart stage throughout the torpedo stage and until embryo maturity, DRN expression was confined to the SAM (Fig. 2D). DRNL expression began in the early globular embryo (Fig. 2E) and was then restricted to the apical portion of the globular embryo (Fig. 2F). During the heart stage, the DRNL expression domain pre-patterned that of the emerging cotyledons, and at the elaborated heart stage, transcripts were confined to the sub-epidermal cells at the tip of the cotyledons (Fig. 2G); DRNL transcription ceased after the heart stage (Fig. 2H). These data show that the expression of DRN and DRNL overlap in the apical hemisphere of the globular-stage embryo and in sub-epidermal cells of the developing cotyledons.   [[FIGURE]] The anomaly between the expression domains of DRN and DRNL in the central and apical embryo region and in the hypophysis region, where defective cell division phenotypes are observed in drn-1 and drn-1 drnl-1 mutants, suggests that both genes have non cell-autonomous functions. Although movement of DRN and DRNL proteins cannot be excluded, given the similarities between drn and drnl mutant phenotypes and those of many auxin-signalling mutants, auxin is a good candidate for mediating DRN and DRNL function. To test this, we crossed the DR5::GFP reporter construct, which indirectly measures auxin distribution and response, into the drn-1 mutant background. In wild type, a DR5::GFP maximum was established in the hypophysis and upper suspensor cell at about the 32-cell stage (Fig. 2I). In drn-1 mutants, DR5::GFP showed a more centralised, diffuse expression (Fig. 2J), and a subsequent maximum in the basal domain often appeared that was asymmetrical and not confined to the hypophysis and upper suspensor cells (Fig. 2K). In wild-type heart-stage embryos, DR5::GFP maxima were observed at the base of the embryo and at the tips of the developing cotyledons in the L1 cell layer (Fig. 2L). Heart-stage drn embryos showed either a similar DR5::GFP maximum to that of wild type in normal cotyledons, or an absence of expression in phenotypically abnormal cotyledons (Fig. 2M). The abnormal DR5::GFP expression pattern in drn mutants demonstrates that DRN functions upstream of auxin-mediated responses necessary for root and cotyledon specification. We used PIN1 as an additional marker to address auxin transport in the drn mutant embryo. We analysed F2 embryos from a cross between drn and a PIN1::PIN1-GFP transgenic line, segregating drn and wild-type embryos and allowing a simultaneous comparison of PIN1 expression to be made in both genotypes. From a total of 149 embryos analysed, 21 showed a drn mutant phenotype. At about the 32-cell stage, PIN1 in the embryo centre was laterally localised, whereas in the wild type it was basally localised (compare Fig. 2N with 2O). Slightly later, the disorganised cells in the hypophysis region of the drn mutant also expressed PIN1 with a variable cellular localisation, including significant lateral concentration, whereas in the wild type the distribution was basal (compare Fig. 2P with 2Q). The altered expression of both DR5::GFP and PIN1::PIN1-GFP in the drn mutant unequivocally places DRN function upstream of auxin transport and response in the early embryo. To elucidate further the role of DRN in embryo development, we isolated putative interacting protein partners in a yeast two-hybrid screen using the N-terminal 116 amino acids of the DRN protein, including the AP2 domain, as bait. The C-terminal part of the DRN protein was excluded as it demonstrated weak auto-activation activity. Amongst 177 positive clones sequenced from a total of 1576 following quadruple selection for Trp, Leu, Ade and theβ -glucuronidase reporter gene, were sequences encoding several kinases, metabolic enzymes and proteins of unknown function. Since DRN belongs to a plant-specific family of transcription factors, we focussed our analyses on potential transcription factor partners. Of note was PHV (AtHB9; At1g30490), which was independently isolated eight times, based on cDNA termini sequences. All isolated PHV clones encoded C-terminal parts of the protein, extending maximally from amino acid 754 to the last amino acid, 841.   [[FIGURE]] The PHV expression pattern is described elsewhere (CITATION), but to support the functional significance of the putative protein-protein interactions between PHV and DRN or DRNL, we demonstrated that PHV is temporally and spatially co-expressed with DRN and DRNL in the proembryo, and is concentrated apically in the developing globular embryo before becoming localised to the adaxial side of the developing cotyledons (Fig. 2R-U). We used two methods to substantiate the affinity of the protein-protein interaction between DRN and PHV shown by the yeast two-hybrid screen. Firstly, we performed co-immunoprecipitation (CoIP) experiments using epitope-tagged full-length DRN, DRNL and PHV. These results (Fig. 3A,B) confirmed the protein-protein interaction between DRN and PHV and between DRNL and PHV in vitro. DRNL could not be co-immunoprecipitated by DRN (Fig. 4B), demonstrating that DRN and DRNL are not capable of heterodimerisation. Additionally, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) (CITATION) in a transient assay in leek epidermal cells to verify the observed biochemical interaction between DRN or DRNL and PHV, in vivo, using full-length DRN and PHVs as the C-terminal part of PHV was sufficient to sustain interaction with DRN in the two-hybrid screen. GFP expression was observed in control experiments (Fig. 3C-E) and YFP expression was reproducibly obtained in multiple independent experiments when the PHVs BiFC construct was co-bombarded with DRN or DRNL BiFC constructs (Fig. 3F,G). A series of negative controls were performed, including co-bombardment of empty YFP vectors, and no evidence for DRN heterodimerisation with DRNL was observed (data not shown). More importantly, no YFP fluorescence was observed following co-bombardment of DRN in pUC-SPYCE and SHOOTMERISTEMLESS (STM) in pUC-SPYNE, nor in the reciprocal cloning combination (data not shown). These results not only demonstrate that that both DRN and DRNL can form stable heterodimers with the PHV protein in planta, but that these interactions are specific. Considering the biochemical dimerisation between DRN and PHV in vitro and in planta, we asked whether genetic evidence would support the hypothesis of an active DRN-PHV protein dimer by constructing a drn-1 phv double mutant. The phv mutant showed wild-type embryo development. However, the drn-1 phv mutant showed embryo cell division defects similar to those observed in the drn-1 drnl-1 double mutant and at almost complete penetrance as compared with that of the drn single mutant (Table 2). Additionally, the penetrance of drn-1 phv cotyledon defects was higher than that of drn single mutants, with slightly more plants with an mp phenocopy (Table 1). The increased penetrance of embryo cell defects of drn-1 phv plants over drn single mutants suggests that both genes contribute to the same embryo developmental pathways. The Arabidopsis class III HD-ZIP protein family also contains the closely related homologue of PHV, PHABULOSA (PHB), in addition to REVOLUTA (REV), CORONA (CNA; also known as ATHB-15 - The Arabidopsis Information Resource) and ATHB8 (CITATION; CITATION). As these family members act redundantly (CITATION), we investigated whether DRN and DRNL could interact with other class III HD-ZIP members apart from PHV. We used equivalent C-terminal parts of all five proteins corresponding to the PHV sequences obtained from the two-hybrid screen (see Materials and methods). His-tagged fulllength DRN and DRNL proteins were detected following CoIP via the HA-tagged C-terminal fragments of all five members of the class III HD-ZIP family (Fig. 4B). DRN and DRNL can thus dimerise with all Arabidopsis class III HD-ZIP proteins, a finding supported by their overlapping expression patterns in the embryo (CITATION) (Fig. 2). We also tested the specificity of PHV interactions by investigating whether the full-length PHV protein could co-precipitate STM, another protein whose expression domain overlaps that of PHV in the embryo. A full-length STM-GFP fusion protein could not be co-precipitated via the HA tag of PHV (Fig. 4C), confirming that PHV specifically interacts with DRN and DRNL.   [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal region of class III HD-ZIP members of Arabidopsis is highly conserved (Fig. 4A) and therefore indicative of conserved function. Using the SMART protein motif search of EMBL (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de), putative homology was found to several characterised domains, including the PAS domain - named after Drosophila period (PER), vertebrate aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) and Drosophila single minded (SIM) - which is found in a superfamily of more than 1000 eukaryotic proteins directly or indirectly involved in signal transduction (CITATION). Homology to the PAS domain resides between amino acids 722 and 792 of the PHV protein, within the sequence we have shown to dimerise with DRN and DRNL. Although this homology is weak, probably representing the low sequence identity between PAS domains (CITATION), this region spans five conserved α-helices of the PAS domain. For this reason, we investigated whether this region of the PHV protein was sufficient to maintain high affinity binding to the full-length DRN protein. In pulldown assays, DRN could dimerise with the 70-amino-acid PHV PAS fragment (Fig. 4D) and, reciprocally, the PHV PAS fragment was able to precipitate DRN or DRNL (Fig. 4D), identifying a functional protein-protein interaction domain within this region. To establish which region of the DRN protein is responsible for dimerisation with PHV, we performed CoIP experiments with subfragments of the N-terminus of DRN used for the two-hybrid screen: (1) the N-terminal polypeptide (amino acids 1-53) excluding the AP2 domain; and (2) the conserved 61 amino acid AP2 consensus domain (CITATION) (DRN amino acids 54-115). The N-terminal polypeptide of DRN was not able to co-precipitate PHV (data not shown), whereas the AP2 domain could (Fig. 4F), confirming that it is sufficient to mediate heterodimer formation with PHV. The same experiment was performed using the DRNL AP2 domain (amino acids 55 to 116), which was also able to precipitate the PHV polypeptide (Fig. 4F). The AP2 domain is generally considered to comprise a GCC-box DNA-binding motif (CITATION; CITATION) composed of three-stranded β-sheets and anα -helix, occurring either in tandem repeats such as in the founding family member APETALA2 (CITATION), or as a single domain as in DRN or DRNL. The 3D structure of the Arabidopsis ERF1 AP2 domain (CITATION; CITATION) shows that the DNA-binding domain resides in the N-terminal β-sheet region of the domain, leaving residues within the C-terminus to orientate on the opposite face to the DNA-binding face so as to be sterically potentially able to interact with other proteins. The cysteine and serine residues in DRN and DRNL AP2 domains (Fig. 4E; marked in yellow Fig. 4G) are noteworthy: the cysteine conserved in both DRN and DRNL is unique amongst plant AP2 domain proteins (see CITATION) and falls within the α-helix of the RAYD domain, considered to be a conserved structural motif relevant to the function of all AP2 proteins (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Two independent insertion mutants in the DRN gene (At1g12980) containing a dSpm element were obtained from the SLAT lines in Columbia (CITATION): drn-1 (CITATION) and drn-2 (SM_3.35017). For the DRNL gene (At1g24590), a drnl-1 mutant in Ler was identified from an enhancer-inhibitor insertional mutagenesis screen as line ITS75 (CITATION); the drnl-2 EMS allele in Ler was a gift from T. Jack (Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH). An insertion line (899_CO2) for the PHV gene (At1g30490) was obtained from the SAIL population (CITATION). All gene insertions were confirmed by PCR (primers DRNF and Spm8 for DRN; DRNLF and ITIR3 for DRNL; PHVIntR and LB3 for PHV; Table 1) followed by sequencing of the amplicons. Homozygous mutants were confirmed by the absence of the wild-type gene using primers flanking the insertion (DRNF and DRNR, DRNLF and DRNLR, or PHV and PHVIntR). For drnl-2, homozygosity was confirmed using a dCAPS marker with primers DRNLCAPS1 and DRNLCAPS2, which give a wild-type amplicon of 184 bp that is cleaved in the mutant by AccI into two fragments of 159 and 25 bp. drn-1 and drnl-1 mutant lines were back-crossed three times.    Oligonucleotide primers used for genotyping mutants  Plants were cultivated on soil in the greenhouse or in sterile culture on 0.5×MS medium supplemented with 1% sucrose under long-day conditions (16 hours light, 8 hours dark) at 22°C. Cotyledons were cleared with cold acetone for 20 minutes and decolourised with 100% ethanol overnight. Ovules were dissected from siliques and cleared overnight with Hoyers Solution (2.5 g gum arabic, 100 g chloral hydrate, 5 ml glycerol and 30 ml water). Microscopy was performed using a Zeiss Axiophot microscope equipped with an Axiocam HR CCD camera using differential interference contrast optics. Non-radioactive in situ hybridisations and the preparation of dioxygenin-labelled RNA probes by T7 RNA polymerase essentially followed the protocols of Kirch et al. (CITATION) or Bradley et al. (CITATION). Probes were as follows: for DRN, from nucleotide +377 (relative to the ATG at +1) to the stop codon and including 78 bp of the 3 UTR; for DRNL, nucleotide +348 to the stop codon; and for PHV, from nucleotide +1585 to +2475. The DR5::GFPer and pPIN1::PIN1:GFP reporter lines (gifts from J. Friml, ZMBP, Tübingen, Germany) were crossed into the drn-1 mutant background. Homozygous drn-1 plants harbouring the DR5::GFPer construct or segregating F2 drn-1 embryos from a cross between drn-1 and a pPIN1::PIN1:GFP line were monitored for GFP expression using a Leica confocal microscope. The construction of a meristem-enriched cDNA library has been described by Cole et al. (CITATION). As bait, 348 bp of the DRN open reading frame (ORF) encoding the N-terminal 116 amino acids of the DRN protein was amplified by PCR, sequenced, directionally cloned into pGBKT7 (Clontech) using NcoI and BamHI, and transformed into the yeast strain Y187 (Clontech Palo Alto, CA). The two-hybrid screen was performed by yeast mating, according to the manufacturer's protocol (Clontech PT3024-1), and with quadruple selection (β-glucuronidase, -Leu, -Trp, -Ade). The ORFs encoding full-length DRN or DRNL and PHVs (the C-terminal 451 amino acids from amino acid 391 to the end) were cloned in-frame into the BamHI site of pUC-SPYCE or pUC-SPYNE (CITATION). For control experiments, GFP fusions were created in the pRT-ΩNotI/AscI vector (CITATION). Transient expression in leek epidermal cells was performed according to Cole et al. (CITATION). YFP/GFP fluorescence was visualised using a MZFLIII stereomicroscope (Leica) after UV excitation and using a GFP filter. All images were processed using Photoshop software (Adobe). Epitope-tagged proteins or peptides were synthesised via the EasyXpress in vitro transcription/translation system (Qiagen) based on the T7 promoter. Templates of the required proteins were obtained via nested PCR reactions on the respective gene ORFs in pUC-SPYCE/NE containing an HA or myc epitope-coding sequence preceding the YFP subdomains. The T7 promoter and 6xHis tag were added to DRN and DRNL coding regions by nested PCR using primers from the EasyXpress Kit. For co-expression, the relevant amplicons were mixed. Control reactions were performed with single amplicons. Immunoprecipitation (IP), gel electrophoretic analyses and detection of epitope-tagged proteins essentially followed the protocols of Cole et al. (CITATION). Peroxidase activity was detected via chemiluminescence and documented on Kodak X-Omat AR film. C-terminal fragments of class III HD-ZIP proteins, the PAS-like domain and the AP2 domain and were amplified by PCR from cDNA derived from various plant tissues, and epitope-coding sequences or the T7 promoter were added by nested PCR using the EasyXpress Kit. Polypeptide termini: PHV, amino acid 624 to end; PHB, amino acid 636 to end; REV, amino acid 644 to end; CNA, amino acid 618 to end; AtHB8, amino acid 619 to end; and PHV PAS-like domain, amino acids 721 to 792. The AP2 domain of DRN and DRNL extended from amino acids 54 and 55 to 115 and 116, respectively.
