!~ABS~! Anion transporting proteins of the CLC type are involved in anion homeostasis in a variety of organisms. CLCs from Arabidopsis have been shown to participate in nitrate accumulation and storage. In this study, the physiological role of the functional chloride transporter AtCLC-d from Arabidopsis was investigated. AtCLC-d is weakly expressed in various tissues, including the root. When transiently expressed as a GFP fusion in protoplasts, it co-localized with the VHA-a1 subunit of the proton-transporting V-type ATPase in the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Stable expression in plants showed that it co-localized with the endocytic tracer dye FM4-64 in a brefeldin A-sensitive compartment. Immunogold electron microscopy confirmed the localization of AtCLC-d to the TGN. Disruption of the AtCLC-d gene by a T-DNA insertion did not affect the nitrate and chloride contents. The overall morphology of these clcd-1 plants was similar to that of the wild-type, but root growth on synthetic medium was impaired. Moreover, the sensitivity of hypocotyl elongation to treatment with concanamycin A, a blocker of the V-ATPase, was stronger in the clcd-1 mutant. These phenotypes could be complemented by overexpression of AtCLC-d in the mutant background. The results suggest that the luminal pH in the trans-Golgi network is adjusted by AtCLC-d-mediated transport of a counter anion such as Cl− or NO3−.
!~RES~! To analyze the expression pattern of AtCLC-d, a 2 kb fragment 5′ of the ATG was cloned in front of the β-glucoronidase gene. The construct was transformed into Arabidopsis and the promoter activity was assayed in two independent homozygous lines from the T2 generation. Promoter activity was most prominent in the root of germinating seedlings and in cotyledons of 5-day-old seedlings (CITATION). Although differential expression was observed, a weak staining, indicating weak promoter activity, was observed in most plant organs. In older plants, stronger staining was observed in the hydathodes and in flowers, especially in anthers and pollen (CITATION). Expression pattern of AtCLC-d in Arabidopsis. Staining pattern of homozygous T2 plants expressing a 2 kb promoter fragment fused to GUS in (a, b) 2-day-old, (e) 5-day-old and (f) 10-day-old seedlings, plus (c) hydathodes and (d) flowers. (g) Overall expression pattern in 28-day-old plants. The numbers indicate days after germination. A homozygous T-DNA insertion line in the Col-0 ecotype was isolated from the Salk collection (SALK_042895). The T-DNA insertion was within the fourth intron of the AtCLC-d gene (At5g26240; CITATION), and initial hybridization with an antisense probe covering the 3′ terminal fragment of AtCLC-d showed that this 3′ fragment was overexpressed in clcd-1 (data not shown). Such overexpression of transcripts in lines from the Salk collection is not unprecedented, as the T-DNA harbors a 35S promoter, which drives expression of genes located close to the left border. However, the partial transcript lacks the coding information for the first three transmembrane helices of AtCLC-d. Proteins that might be formed from this transcript are unlikely to be functional. Subsequent Northern blot hybridization with a 5′ probe confirmed that the full transcript was only detected in wild-type plants, but not in the homozygous clcd-1 mutant (CITATION). The 5′ part of the transcript and the fragment covering the T-DNA insertion were not detectable using RT-PCR, which confirmed that the AtCLC-d transcript was at least strongly reduced, if not abolished, in clcd-1. RT-PCR with primers covering the 5′ fragment of the gene confirmed the strong expression of the 3′ fragment of the partial AtCLC-d transcript in the clcd-1 line. The resistance to kanamycin of progeny obtained from selfed heterozygous plants with a clcd-1 allele segregated roughly 3:1, indicating a single T-DNA insertion in clcd-1 mutants. Isolation of a T-DNA insertion line for AtCLC-d. (a) Schematic position of the insertion in the 4th intron and location of primers. Exons are indicated as black boxes. The indicated primers were used for genotypic screening. (b) RT-PCR showing absence of the full transcript but expression of the 3′ fragment of the transcript in the clcd-1/clcd-1 line. (c) Northern blot hybridization with total RNA from wt and homozygous clcd-1 plants confirming loss of the 5′ part of the transcript in the mutant line. Growth and development of homozygous clcd-1 plants was undistinguishable from that of wild-type plants on soil. Plants did not show developmental defects under long- or short-day conditions (data not shown), and germinated and grew normally on agar supplemented with various concentrations of nitrate or chloride (data not shown). Plants grown on soil or on agar media supplemented with 50 mm KNO3 or 60 mm NaCl, did not have altered chloride and nitrate concentrations compared with the wild-type (CITATION). These results suggest that AtCLC-d is not involved in overall anion homeostasis or that AtCLC-d function is redundant in Arabidopsis. Anion profile of 19-day-old Col-0 and homozygous clcd-1 plants grown on various synthetic agar media. Nitrate (a) and chloride (b) concentrations per fresh weight for plants grown in the absence of NaCl on 1.5 mm NH4NO3 or 6 mm NO3 as the sole nitrogen source or on 1.5 mm NH4NO3 supplemented with 60 mm NaCl. The results are means and SE for triplicate determinations. Similar data were obtained in an independent experiment. Transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts resulted in localization of an AtCLC-d–GFP fusion in small dots that were distributed throughout the cytoplasm (CITATION). AtCLC-d did not co-localize with ARA7–mRFP, which localizes to an endosomal compartment (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2004). ARA7 (also called AtRabF2b) belongs to the family of Rab-type GTPases and has been implicated in vacuolar trafficking (CITATIONet al., 2004). In contrast, AtCLC-d–GFP partially co-localized with the rat sialyl transferase (ST–mRFP; CITATION) that is localized to trans-Golgi cisternae and the TGN (CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2002). The Qa SNARE SYP41 has been identified in the TGN (CITATIONet al., 2000). In many protoplasts, a strict co-localization was observed with SYP41–mRFP (CITATION). However, the pattern of the SYP41–mRFP marker in transiently expressing protoplasts was not entirely consistent and varied somewhat between different protoplasts. An intense overall red fluorescence and less pronounced co-localization were also observed with this marker. Furthermore, co-localization was observed with co-expression of the mRFP-tagged VHA-a1 subunit of V-ATPase (CITATIONet al., 2006) (CITATION). The co-localization was not only visible in individual confocal sections, but was also identified in 3D reconstructions of cell sections. A maximum projection of part of a cell is shown in CITATION. Punctate fluorescent structures were also observed in root cells of stably transformed AtCLC-d–GFP-expressing plants. Due to the weak activity of the endogenous promoter of AtCLC-d–GFP, the CaMV 35S promoter was used to drive expression. The fluorescence obtained from such plants was always rather weak, both in the T1 and T2 generations. Co-localization of AtCLC-d with TGN markers in protoplasts. (a, e, i, m) Confocal laser scanning microscopy of AtCLC-d–GFP showing punctate fluorescence. (b, f, j, n) Staining patterns of co-transformed (b) ARA7–mRFP, (f) ST–mRFP, (j) Syp41–mRFP and (n) the mRFP-labeled VHA-a1 subunit of V-ATPase. Overlays are shown in (c, g, k, o) and bright-field images in (d, h, l, p). Scale bars = 10 µm. (q) Maximum projection of serial sections of part of a protoplast co-expressing AtCLC-d–GFP and VHA-a1–mRFP. Immunogold labeling of ultra-thin cryosections on root tissue was performed using an anti-GFP antibody to confirm the above results. Transmission electron microscopy revealed consistent staining of tubulovesicular structures close to the trans site of the Golgi stacks (CITATION). Gold particles labeled the same structures, which represent the TGN, in VHA-a1–GFP plants (CITATION), but not in controls not expressing AtCLC-d–GFP (CITATION). In both cases, no staining was observed on the Golgi itself. The results are consistent with a preferential localization of AtCLC-d in the trans-Golgi network. Immunogold labeling of ultra-thin root cryosections of plants stably expressing AtCLC-d–GFP. (a, b) Anti-GFP antibodies were detected with silver-enhanced Nanogold. Gold particles accumulated in the TGN region close to the trans-Golgi cisternae of cortex and epidermal cells of root tips. The trans-Golgi side is marked with (T) and is always shown on the lower side of the Golgi stack (G). (c) No labeling above background was seen in controls not expressing AtCLC-d–GFP. (d) Labeling in plants stably expressing VHA-a1–GFP. Scale bar = 200 nm. Endosomal vesicles aggregate upon treatment with the fungal toxin brefeldin A (BFA), which blocks certain ADP ribosylation factor guanidine nucleotide exchange factors (ARF-GEFs) involved in membrane trafficking (CITATIONet al., 2001). Early endosomes may accumulate in the core (CITATIONet al., 2001), while trans-Golgi markers may arrange at the periphery of such ‘BFA compartments’ (CITATIONet al., 2003). The punctate fluorescence from AtCLC-d–GFP-expressing plants was lost after incubating with BFA (50 µm) for 2 h, but an aggregate of fluorescence in the center of each cell was observed (CITATION). Furthermore, the lipophilic styryl dye FM4-64, a widely used tracer for endocytic membrane trafficking (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2003; CITATIONet al., 2004) co-localized with AtCLC-d–GFP. After the addition of FM4-64 (2 µm), the plasma membrane rapidly stained red. Punctate red fluorescence was additionally apparent after a few minutes (CITATION). These punctate structures partially overlapped with the AtCLC-d–GFP fluorescent dots in confocal microscopic sections (CITATION). This is consistent with AtCLC-d–GFP residing in an early endocytic compartment identical to the TGN (CITATIONet al., 2006). Brefeldin A sensitivity and co-localization with the endocytic marker FM4-64 in root cells. Fluorescence (a, c) and bright-field (b, d) images of stably AtCLC-d–GFP-expressing plant roots. (a, b) Untreated control, (c, d) treatment with BFA (50 µm). Scale bar = 50 µm. Green AtCLC-d–GFP fluorescence (e, h), red FM4-64 labeling (f, i) and overlay (g, j) taken after 6 min (e–g) and in a different experiment after about 10 min (h–j). Scale bars = 10 µm. As AtCLC-d co-localized with the VHA-a1 subunit of V-ATPase, we tested whether clcd-1 mutant plant growth was affected at different pH. Wild-type root growth was maximal at acidic pH, consistent with an important role for the acidic rhizosphere pH in plant growth. In contrast, plant development was entirely impaired on agar plates that were buffered with 20 mm MES at neutral pH (CITATION). Compared with the wild-type, the mutant clcd-1/clcd-1 plants had a slightly reduced root length, which was fully restored in ectopic 35S::AtCLC-d–GFP overexpressors in the null background (CITATION). Taking into account the rapid exchange of lipid dye and membrane between the plasma membrane and the AtCLC-d–GFP-positive early endocytic compartment (CITATION), the external pH may have affected the pH homeostasis. Importantly, complementation of the clcd-1/clcd-1 plants with GFP-tagged AtCLC-d suggests that the tag did not affect its physiological function and localization. Root growth at acidic pH in the clcd-1/clcd-1 line and complementation by ectopic overexpression of AtCLC-d–GFP. Representative root length of seedlings after 8 days (upper panels). Lower panel: statistical analysis of primary root length. The root length was calculated from three independent experiments (means ± SE). More than 50 seedlings were analyzed in each experiment. V-ATPase is required for cell elongation, a phenomenon that is apparent from the dwarf phenotype in the det3 mutant that shows a partial V-ATPase loss (CITATIONet al., 1999). Inhibition of V-ATPase by concanamycin A, a specific inhibitor, similarly impaired the hypocotyl elongation of etiolated seedlings in a dose-dependent manner (CITATION). To confirm a more direct link between a functional V-ATPase and AtCLC-d, the effect of concanamycin A on hypocotyl elongation was assayed in clcd-1 and wild-type plants. In 5-day-old dark-germinated seedlings, the hypocotyls of clcd-1 plants were of similar length when germinated on pure agar in the dark (CITATION) and when the pH of the medium was adjusted to pH 5 or 7 (data not shown). In contrast, clcd-1 hypocotyls were shorter than wild-type (P < 0.001) when the V-ATPase was partially blocked by concanamycin A (CITATION), proving a close cooperativity of the proton pump and AtCLC-d. This phenotype was complemented by expression of the GFP-tagged AtCLC-d construct under the control of the 35S promoter. Impaired hypocotyl elongation by loss of AtCLC-d and by treatment with concanamycin A. Normalized hypocotyl length of wild-type 5-day-old seedlings (white bar), clcd-1 mutant (light gray bar) and two ectopic AtCLC-d–GFP overexpressers in the clcd-1 background (dark gray bars) without concanamycin A (left), and with 0.15 (middle) or 0.25 µm concanamycin A (right). The number of hypocotyls analyzed in this particular experiment is shown in parentheses on the top of each bar. Means and SE are given and were statistically different between clcd-1 and the other lines upon treatment with concanamycin A (P < 0.001, Student’s t-test). Similar differences between wild-type and clcd-1 were observed in four independent experiments; the results for one of these are shown. Although absolute values of hypocotyl length were almost identical for wild-type and clcd-1 in the absence on concanamycin A, normalized values are given here for better display. Absolute hypocotyl lengths (in mm) were: wild-type = 11.5; clcd-1 = 10.4; complemented clcd-1 = 11.5 and 10.8.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Col-0) were grown in soil and transformed by spraying using the GV3101 Agrobacterium strain. Seeds were germinated in the dark for 4 days on agar plates (0.8%) containing 1.5 mm NH4NO3, 1 mm KH2PO4, 0.5 mm MgSO4, 100 µm NaSiO3, 1.25 mm CaSO4, 50 µm Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 µm H3BO3, 3 µm MnSO4, 1 µm ZnSO4, 1.3 µm CuSO4, 0.03 µm Mo7O24(NH4)6 and 20 mm MES, with the pH adjusted to 6.0 using Tris. Various nitrogen sources were added using appropriate NH4NO3 concentrations or exchanging NH4NO3 for KNO3 or (NH4)2SO4. Selection and segregation of transgenic plants for kanamycin resistance were performed on agar plates with 50 µg/ml kanamycin. Selection of BASTA resistance utilized plates supplemented with 4 µmN-methyl sulfoximine. Seeds germinated on agar nutrient medium were grown at 22°C with cycles of 16 h light/ 8 h dark. Soil-grown plants were maintained in greenhouse conditions. Hypocotyl elongation was measured after germination for 5 days in the dark. A 4 h light stimulus was given after plating the seeds on agar plates (0.8% Phytagar, Duchefa (http://www.duchefa.com)) made with distilled water without nutrients. The means ± SE for 30–50 hypocotyls of each seed batch are given. The protocol for transient expression in protoplasts from suspension cells from Arabidopsis can be found at http://www.uni-tuebingen.de/ZMBP/centfac/transf/index.html. The T-DNA insertion disrupting AtCLC-d was identified in the Salk collection (SALK_042895). The genomic sequence was amplified by PCR with flanking primers (LB 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAAC-3′, D1fw 5′-AGGAATTGATATTCCCGGCACC-3′, D1rev 5′-CTCCGATAACTCCTATTACAGC-3′, D2fw: 5′- CTGGAGTTGCTGCTGCCTTTAG-3′). Northern blot analysis revealed that this transgenic line overexpressed the C-terminal fragment (positions 653–2404 of the cDNA starting at the ATG). Sequence analysis of this PCR product showed that the T-DNA was inserted at position 926 of the genomic sequence starting at the ATG. RNA was isolated using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen; http://www.qiagen.com/). cDNA was transcribed from total RNA (2 µg) isolated from seedlings using reverse transcriptase MMLV-RTase (Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com) and oligo(dT) primer. All PCR amplifications comprised 30 cycles. A 2 kb promoter fragment was isolated from genomic DNA using the following primers: 5′-GAGGTACCTTAGAGAACGAGGGGTACGG–3′ and 5′-GAGGGTACCGATCGAGAGTTCGACTTCTGG–3′. Both primers contained KpnI restriction sites (underlined) to facilitate cloning into pTkan-GUS (CITATIONet al., 2004). The AtCLC-d sequence was amplified from cDNA (CITATIONet al., 1996). In this study, the d86 splice variant was investigated throughout. To obtain the rescue construct AtCLC-d–GFP, the stop codon of the AtCLC-d gene was deleted and ligated 5′ in-frame with the GFP(S65T) coding sequence. This sequence was inserted into pPTbar, a derivative of the pPZP212 vector (CITATIONet al., 1994), containing the 35S promoter and an rbcs terminator. The primers used were 5′-GAGTCGACATGTTATCGAATCATCTCCAGA-3′ and 5′-AGGTCGACTCTTATTTGTATAGTTCATCCA-3′. Plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101::pMP90, and plants were transformed using standard procedures. Plants were assayed for GFP fluorescence in the T1 generation and were then transferred to soil. Homozygous T2 progeny were used. mRFP-tagged constructs were derived from VHA-a1–GFP (CITATIONet al., 2006) or N-ST–YFP (CITATIONet al., 2003) by replacing the XFP sequence by mRFP (CITATIONet al., 2002). ARA7–mRFP has been described previously by CITATIONet al. (2005). For bright-field and differential interference contrast microscopy, a Zeiss Axioplan microscope (Zeiss; http://www.zeiss.com/) equipped with a Diagnostics Spot RT slider camera were used, and for confocal laser scanning microscopy, a Leica TCS SP2 was used (Leica, http://www.leica.de). Images were processed in NIH image and Adobe Photoshop. Immunogold labeling was performed on ultra-thin (80–100 nm) thawed Tokuyasu cryosections of formaldehyde-fixed (8%, 2 h) and sucrose-infiltrated (2.1 M) root tips using rabbit anti-GFP serum (1:250, 60 min; Abcam, http://www.abcam.com) and silver-enhanced (HQ Silver, 8 min; Nanoprobes, http://www.nanoprobes.com) goat (Fab′) anti-rabbit IgG coupled to Nanogold (1:50; no. 2004, Nanoprobes) (CITATIONet al., 2001). Staining with uranyl acetate and final embedding in uranyl acetate/methylcellulose (Sigma; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) was performed according to the method described by CITATION. The anion content was analyzed from liquid N2-homogenized material by HPLC using a Wescan ion analyzer equipped with an anion chromatography column (Gamma Analysen Technik GmbH, http://www.gatgmbh.com) using 2 mm phtalic acid, 10% methanol, pH 5, as eluent.
