!~ABS~! Morlin (7-ethoxy-4-methyl chromen-2-one) was discovered in a screen of 20,000 compounds for small molecules that cause altered cell morphology resulting in swollen root phenotype in Arabidopsis. Live-cell imaging of fluorescently labeled cellulose synthase (CESA) and microtubules showed that morlin acts on the cortical microtubules and alters the movement of CESA. Morlin caused a novel syndrome of cytoskeletal defects, characterized by cortical array reorientation and compromised rates of both microtubule elongation and shrinking. Formation of shorter and more bundled microtubules and detachment from the cell membrane resulted when GFP::MAP4-MBP was used to visualize microtubules during morlin treatment. Cytoskeletal effects were accompanied by a reduction in the velocity and redistribution of CESA complexes labeled with YFP::CESA6 at the cell cortex. Morlin caused no inhibition of mouse myoblast, bacterial or fungal cell proliferation at concentrations that inhibit plant cell growth. By contrast, morlin stimulated microtubule disassembly in cultured hippocampal neurons but had no significant effect on cell viability. Thus, morlin appears to be a useful new probe of the mechanisms that regulate microtubule cortical array organization and its functional interaction with CESA.
!~RES~! Inhibition of cellulose synthesis by mutations or inhibitors such as isoxaben, results in decreased anisotropy of cell expansion. Additionally, depending on the severity of inhibition, cells may expand manyfold in diameter relative to controls, resulting in swollen organs. Based on these phenotypes, two chemically diverse small-molecule libraries were visually screened for compounds that caused organ swelling. Arabidopsis seedlings were germinated in 20–50 μM solutions of each compound in 96-well plates. From a total of 20,000 compounds screened, 27 compounds (CBI1–27) that caused root or hypocotyl swelling were selected for further analysis. Compound CBI-21 (7-ethoxy-4-ethyl-chromen-2-one) was selected for detailed investigation. Germination on 5 μM CBI-21 caused severe cell and tissue swelling of the hypocotyl and upper root in both Arabidopsis and switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) seedlings, consistent with the effects expected from weakening of cell walls (FIG-REF A). [[FIGURE]] To identify the most active analogs of morlin, we conducted a structure-based search using webtools available through ChemMine (CITATION) for commercially available analogs. Of the 19 analogs screened, the most potent inhibitors of plant root growth were 7-ethoxy-4-ethyl chromen-2-one, 7-ethoxy-4-methyl chromen-2-one, dehydrochromen-2-one, and 2H-chromen-2-one, all of which caused inhibition of root growth to <10% of the control at 25 μM [supporting information (SI) Fig. 6]. Several coumarins were found to cause either only a partial root swelling phenotype or no inhibition of seedling root growth (SI Fig. 6). Based on this analysis, we selected 7-ethoxy-4-methyl chromen-2-one for further analysis because it was commercially available in large quantities and highly active in root growth inhibition. We named the compound morlin (FIG-REF B) because, as noted later, it caused a cellular phenotype reminiscent of the mor1 mutation of Arabidopsis (CITATION). The approximate concentration at which morlin inhibited root growth by ≈50% (the RI50) was 1 μM in both switchgrass and Arabidopsis (data not shown). Morlin caused dose-dependent inhibition of cellulose synthesis, with significant inhibition of cellulose deposition observed at 1 μM (SI Fig. 7A ). In addition to radial swelling in roots and hypocotyls, at sublethal concentrations (250 nM to 2.5 μM), morlin stimulated a right-handed helical root phenotype on plants grown on vertically oriented agar medium (data not shown). To quantify inhibition of cellulose synthesis, incorporation of [14C]glucose into the cellulose fraction of seedling cell walls was measured after a 2-h incubation period in the label. Seedlings that were preincubated for 1 h in 50 μM morlin exhibited a 23% decrease in [14C]glucose incorporation compared with a DMSO control (SI Fig. 7B ). Although Morlin caused a marked decrease in cellulose production, after 2-h exposure to 25 μM, a 65% increase in callose biosynthesis was observed, demonstrating that the UDP-glucose pool was not depleted. Loss of cell growth anisotropy and reduced cellulose content might be caused by either direct inhibition of cellulose biosynthesis or a failure to deliver and regulate CESA appropriately. To investigate these alternatives, we visualized both microtubules and CESA in living cells. In hypocotyl cells of dark-grown seedlings expressing microtubule markers, YFP::TUA5 (CITATION) or GFP::MAP4 (CITATION), morlin caused marked changes in cytoskeletal organization (FIG-REF–FIG-REF and SI Movies 1 and 2). As visualized with YFP::TUA5, the number of cells showing clear transverse-oriented cortical arrays dropped significantly in comparison with mock-treated controls, from 32% to 10% (P < 0.001 binomial test, SI Table 2). The remaining cells in both treatments had either longitudinal or disordered arrays. YFP::TUA5-labeled arrays in morlin-treated cells also appeared more sparse, with labeled microtubules occupying 23% less area in confocal images (P < 0.01, Student's t test, eight cells in seven plants for each treatment, see Methods for details of image analysis). The effect of morlin on cortical array organization was distinct from that of oryzalin; even at 50 μM morlin, the array was noticeably more intact than was the case after treatment with 20 μM oryzalin, a drug that binds tubulin dimers and interferes with dimer addition to polymer ends (FIG-REF C). YFP::TUA5 data were consistent with tubulin immunofluorescence studies in which intact microtubules were no longer detected in morlin-treated cells, and anti-tubulin labeling was primarily distributed in punctate beads at the cell cortex (SI Fig. 8 A and B ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Measurement of microtubule polymerization dynamics showed that morlin caused a significant decrease in both elongation and shrinkage rates at the plus end (FIG-REF A and C and Table 1) and in shrinkage rate at the minus end (FIG-REF B and D and Table 1) as compared with control cells (polymerization events at the minus end were too small for meaningful comparison). The relative reduction in mean elongation rate (−58%) was nearly twice that of the relative reduction in shrinking rate (−31%), consistent with the observation of less microtubule area in the presence of the drug. A change in the proportion of time spent either in elongation or shrinking does not explain loss of polymer after drug treatment, because morlin treatment actually appeared to increase slightly the amount of time spent in growth and reduce modestly the amount of time spent shrinking (Table 1). Transition frequencies were not calculated because of the limited amount of time that the ends of any single treadmilling microtubule could be observed in the relatively dense cortical arrays of epidermal cells in etiolated tissue. Consistent with measurement of reduced elongation and shrinkage velocities (FIG-REF E and F), the dynamicity (total polymer gain and loss per unit time) was significantly lower in morlin-treated cells (Table 1). As was reported previously (CITATION), a small net gain of polymer was observed in each treatment (Table 1), suggesting that either these arrays were not at a steady state at the time of observation or there was a sampling bias in the observed microtubule ends. Taken together, measurements of polymerization dynamics suggest that a primary effect of morlin on the microtubule cytoskeleton is to reduce polymer dynamicity by inhibiting the rates of both dimer addition and loss at polymer ends.  In vivo measurements of single microtubule growth phases, dynamicity, and net polymer gain/loss in no drug versus morlin-treated cells In addition to experiments with YFP::TUA5, we also visualized microtubules by expression of GFP::MAP4 (FIG-REF A). As with YFP::TUA5, reduction in the rates of microtubule elongation and shrinking were readily observed in morlin-treated cells by time-lapse imaging (SI Movie 2). However, additional changes in microtubule organization were also evident. Microtubules became arranged into short segments of similar lengths (FIG-REF B). The high degree of labeling indicated that these segments were polymer bundles, and analysis of intensity distribution among these segments suggested that the frequency and degree of polymer bundling increased after morlin treatment (FIG-REF E and F). These bundles often lost positional stability and showed translocation behaviors that suggested detachment from the cell membrane (SI Movie 2). In many cases, pivoting movements of bundles about one end were observed, suggesting that bundles often remained attached to the cell membrane at one end (SI Movie 2 and FIG-REF D). Some bundles showed complete detachment from the cortex, resulting in a microtubule moving in the underlying cytoplasmic stream (SI Movie 2). The origin of 20 of these short and mobile microtubule bundles was traced in time-lapse movies acquired during morlin application. Observation of new bundle creation during the period from the onset of morlin effects (17–47 min) showed that short MAP4-labeled bundles did not arise by severing or depolymerizing existing bundles. Rather, these structures appeared to arise de novo, initially being composed of short and dynamic polymers that stabilized at a fixed length after several minutes. Stabilization of microtubule turnover was supported by florescence recovery after photobleaching analysis, in which GFP::MAP4 microtubules showed recovery T1/2 values of ≈1 min, whereas, after treatment with morlin, T1/10 was >15 min (data not shown). Both polymer bundling and membrane detachment were reversed by drug washout (FIG-REF C). The inhibition of cellulose synthesis by morlin did not follow a classical inhibition curve, but a clear decrease in the cellulose content and 14C incorporation into cellulose was measured (SI Fig. 7 A and B ). To explore further how morlin inhibits cellulose synthesis, we took advantage of a functional live cell tag for the cellulose biosynthetic complex, YFP::CESA6 (CITATION), to ask whether morlin affects localization or dynamic behavior of the complex. Consistent with a reduction in cellulose content, time-lapse confocal imaging of YFP::CESA6 1 mm below the apical hook of 2- to 3-d-old etiolated seedlings showed that morlin treatment reduced the velocity of YFP::CESA6 complexes in the plasma membrane (control: 250 ± 37 nm/min; morlin: 177 ± 51 nm/min; FIG-REF B and SI Movie 3). In addition to a reduction in YFP::CESA6 complex velocity, the distribution of label was altered by morlin. Although labeled particles remained organized into obliquely linear arrays at the cell cortex, particles were fewer in number and often higher in label intensity (SI Movie 3). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the effects of morlin on YFP::CESA6 distribution and behavior depended on the microtubule cytoskeleton, we pretreated seedlings with oryzalin before morlin application to deplete the cell cortex of microtubules (FIG-REF G). After 16-h incubation in oryzalin, depolymerization of all detectable cortical microtubules was achieved, and, as reported (CITATION), a more uniform dispersion of CESA6 particles was observed, with individual particles tracking in linear and oblique trajectories across the cell cortex. We measured the rate of YFP::CESA translocation and found that oryzalin had no measurable effect on YFP::CESA6 complex velocity (FIG-REF C), yet, when cells were treated further with morlin for 2 h, the velocities of YFP::CESA6 complexes were significantly reduced (FIG-REF H) to values similar to those measured after treatment with morlin alone (FIG-REF F, 247 ± 46 nm/min to 171 ± 44 nm/min). This experiment was repeated by using shorter oryzalin exposure times with similar results (data not shown). Therefore, it appears that inhibition of CESA complex velocity by morlin does not depend on the interaction of CESA with an intact microtubule cytoskeleton. By contrast, the effect of morlin on the distribution of YFP::CESA6 label depended highly on the presence of detectible microtubules. Whereas morlin treatment on its own caused the redistribution of YFP::CESA6 into fewer and brighter particles as described above (SI Movie 3B ), this morlin-dependent redistribution was not observed when microtubules were depolymerized by oryzalin (SI Movie 3D ). Instead, YFP::CESA6 distribution appeared much as it did with oryzalin treatment alone (SI Movie 3C ). To test for other effects of morlin treatment, a variety of fluorescent protein markers were assayed for alterations in organelle morphology or protein distribution. Markers highlighting the endoplasmic reticulum, actin filaments, Golgi apparatus, the vacuole, and the plasma membrane (marker lines are summarized in refs. CITATION and CITATION) did not show any pronounced changes in response to drug treatment that could not be reasonably accounted for by changes in microtubule organization (SI Fig. 9). Proliferation of E. coli in liquid culture was not inhibited by addition of 10 or 20 μM morlin (SI Fig. 10). Similarly, addition of 20 μM morlin did not inhibit growth of the yeast P. pastoris. Mouse myoblast C2C12 cells treated with 25 μM morlin for 5 h and then stained for α-tubulin also showed no changes in microtubule organization (Tim Stearns, personal communication). Immunolabeling of β-tubulin in neuronal processes showed that morlin caused severe microtubule disarray in high-density hippocampal neuronal cultures, characterized by an increase in free tubulin, microtubule disassembly, and neuritic beading (SI Fig. 11 and SI Materials and Methods ). Microtubule disarray caused by morlin (25 μM) depended on the time of exposure to the drug (SI Fig. 11) and the neuronal stage of development, because DIV15 neurons exhibited a smaller degree of susceptibility to the drug compared with DIV5 neurons. Morlin further caused disruption of vesicular transport as observed by the accumulation of the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1, a synaptic marker for excitatory glutamatergic neurons (SI Fig. 11). Despite the disruption of cytoskeletal structure, the same concentration of the drug had no significant effect on cell viability, as determined morphologically, by analysis of nuclear condensation and by MTT reduction assay (SI Fig. 11).
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis lines used were of the Columbia ecotype. Seedlings were germinated and grown under continuous light (200 μmol/m2/s) or in the dark at 21°C on plates containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) mineral salts (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and 0.8% agar. Inhibitors were solubilized in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or methanol (MeOH) and added to media so that solvent concentrations never exceeded 0.2%. Florescent protein experiments were performed on seedlings prepared essentially as described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Two 96-well format DIVERSet libraries (ChemBridge, San Diego, CA), each consisting of 10,000 small synthetic molecules solubilized in DMSO were screened; this represented 250 plates containing 80 compounds each (plates 10,126–10,250 and 10,626–10,750). Each compound was added to 100 μl of MS agar media to a final concentration of 20–40 μM. Approximately 10 sterilized Arabidopsis seeds were sown per well, and the plates were incubated in continuous fluorescent light (50 μE/m2/s) at 21°C for 3 d. Plates were visually scored after 3 d of growth by inspecting each well with a dissecting microscope. Effects of inhibitors on growth were tested by measuring root length of ≈50 Arabidopsis seedlings grown for 5 d on vertically oriented MS-agar plates containing 5 or 20 μM solutions of each compound in both light and dark conditions. Seeds were germinated on 0.5× MS agar for 2–4 d in darkness at 21°C. Seedlings were mounted in control or drug solutions between two 48 × 60 mm cover glasses or placed on a thin pad of 1.5% agar containing the appropriate control or drug and sandwiched between two coverslips. Once mounted, specimens were incubated for defined times in the dark before imaging. For incubations longer than 2 h, seedlings were submerged in solution and incubated in darkness before mounting. Imaging was performed on a purpose-built spinning-disk confocal microscope (CITATION) using a Leica ×63 N.A. = 1.4 oil-immersion objective and a Roper Cascade 512b EMCCD camera. EGFP and YFP were excited at 488 nm, and fluorescence was collected through a 525/50 nm band-pass filter (Chroma Technologies, Brattleboro, VT). All image processing was performed by using Metamorph (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA) and ImageJ (W. Rasband, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD) software. Kymograph analysis to estimate particle velocities was performed by using the Walking Average (three-frame window) and Multiple Kymograph plug-ins for ImageJ (J. Rietdorf and A. Seitz, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany). To estimate the relative area occupied by microtubule-localized signal in confocal images, pixels defining labeled microtubules were thresholded above the local background, then the relative area occupied by these pixels was measured in a fixed 40 × 450-pixel region centered on the midline of each cell image. Image segmentation was performed by first applying a rolling-ball filter with a diameter of eight pixels to remove smoothly changing features in the image background (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/docs/menus/process.html) and then applying a common threshold value to all measured images (see SI Fig. 12 for example). To visualize callose deposition in whole plants, seedling were cleared with 95% ethanol and stained with analine blue. Treatments were dH2O, 2-6-dichlobenzonitrile (20 μM), morlin (20 μM), and 2-6-dichlobenzonitrile and morlin (20 μM). Individual plants were then mounted in water and examined under UV illumination. Intact roots of Arabidopsis plants grown on MS-agar media containing 25 μM morlin were fixed, digested, and assayed by using a tubulin antibody essentially as described (CITATION). Secondary antibody was visualized at 488 nm by confocal microscopy.
