!~ABS~! Salicylic acid (SA) is a plant signaling molecule that mediates the induction of defense responses upon attack by a variety of pathogens. Moreover, it antagonizes gene induction by the stress signaling molecule jasmonic acid (JA). Several SA-responsive genes are regulated by basic/leucine zipper-type transcription factors of the TGA family. TGA factors interact with NPR1, a central regulator of many SA-induced defense responses including SA/JA antagonism. In order to identify further regulatory proteins of SA-dependent signaling pathways, a yeast protein interaction screen with tobacco TGA2.2 as bait and an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA prey library was performed and led to the identification of a member of the glutaredoxin family (GRX480, encoded by At1g28480). Glutaredoxins are candidates for mediating redox regulation of proteins because of their capacity to catalyze disulfide transitions. This agrees with previous findings that the redox state of both TGA1 and NPR1 changes under inducing conditions. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants ectopically expressing GRX480 show near wild-type expression of standard marker genes for SA- and xenobiotic-inducible responses. In contrast, transcription of the JA-dependent defensin gene PDF1.2 was antagonized by transgenic GRX480. This, together with the observation that GRX480 transcription is SA-inducible and requires NPR1, suggests a role of GRX480 in SA/JA cross-talk. Suppression of PDF1.2 by GRX480 depends on the presence of TGA factors, indicating that the GRX480/TGA interaction is effective in planta.
!~RES~! To identify proteins that interact with TGA factors, we designed a screening strategy that offers the authentic TGA dimer bound to its target sequence as bait (CITATION). NtTGA2.2 was expressed under the control of the MET25 promoter in a yeast strain containing three copies of the as-1 element upstream of the HIS3 selectable marker gene (CITATION). Binding of NtTGA2.2 to its target sites does not lead to activation of the marker gene, which allows screening for interacting proteins. Subsequently an Arabidopsis cDNA library fused to the GAL4 activation domain was used to isolate proteins recognizing as-1-bound NtTGA2.2. After transformation of the Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION) into the appropriate yeast strain (CITATION), 28 clones out of 1 × 106 yeast transformants were able to grow on selective medium. Restriction analysis and sequencing of the inserts led to the classification of four groups of recombinant plasmids. The largest group (22 members) encoded cDNAs identical to At1g28480. The protein deduced from this sequence belongs to the family of glutaredoxins and was subsequently called GRX480. Recovered prey plasmids were re-transformed into 3x as-1::HIS3-encoding yeast cells expressing or lacking NtTGA2.2. Histidine prototrophy was restored only in the presence of NtTGA2.2 (data not shown), indicating that the gene product of At1g28480 is recruited to the as-1 element only in the presence of NtTGA2.2. Figure 1(a) depicts the genomic DNA and deduced protein sequence of At1g28480. Glutaredoxins (GRXs) are small redox proteins of approximately 12 kDa that are able to catalyze the reduction of disulfides or glutathione (GSH) mixed disulfides (CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome encodes 31 GRX genes that have been classified into three major sub-groups according to the sequence of the active center: (i) the CPYC group that is also present in yeast, Escherichia coli and mammals; (ii) the CGFS group identified in higher plants, algae and yeast; and (iii) the higher plant-specific CC group. GRX480 encodes a CCMC sequence and thus belongs to the CC group with two potentially active cysteines (C). Twenty-five Arabidopsis glutaredoxin genes encode core proteins of only approximately 100 amino acids, whereas six glutaredoxin genes, including GRX480, encode specific N-terminal extensions with about 30–70 amino acids. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the TGA–GRX480 interaction in planta, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was used. The N-terminus of the yellow fluorescent protein (YN) was fused in-frame to the TGA2 coding region that is the Arabidopsis ortholog of NtTGA2.2. The YFP C-terminus (YC) was fused N-terminally to GRX480. The constructs were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts. Reconstitution of a fluorescing YFP chromophore occurred only upon co-expression of both proteins (Figure 1b). Yellow fluorescence was observed in a defined compartment of the protoplast, which appeared to be the nucleus as judged from bright-field microscopy. No fluorescence was detected following co-expression of one of the fusion proteins with free non-fused YN or YC (data not shown). Further evidence that GRX480 interacts with TGA factors in planta comes from transient expression experiments in tobacco protoplasts, which were designed like two-hybrid systems: co-expression of GRX480 fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain together with NtTGA2.2 fused to the VP16 activation domain (CITATION) resulted in activation of a GUS reporter construct containing four GAL4 binding sites in its upstream regulatory region (Figure S1). The potential relevance of GRX480 in the biological context of SA-dependent defense responses was supported by Northern blot analysis that revealed increased steady-state GRX480 transcript levels after SA treatment (Figure 1c). As described for PR-1, expression of GRX480 is severely reduced in the npr1-1 mutant (CITATION), although some background transcript levels remain. The tga2 tga5 tga6 triple mutant (CITATION) also showed compromised inducibility of GRX480 transcript levels (Figure 1d). As expected, GRX480 expression was induced after challenge of plants with Pseudomonas syringae, irrespective of whether a virulent or an avirulent strain was used (data not shown). Chemicals such as JA and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) that induce NPR1-independent glutathione-S-transferase promoters encoding an as-1 element (CITATION; CITATION) did not efficiently induce GRX480 (Figures 3a, 4a and 5a, and data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the lack of SA-inducible expression of GRX480 in the npr1-1 and tga2 tga5 tga6 triple mutants (Figure 1c,d), a number of TGA binding motifs were found in the GRX480 promoter. A perfect binding site for TGA dimers is the palindromic sequence TGAC/GTCA (CITATION), but the first five base pairs (TGAC/G) are sufficient for recognition (CITATION). Within 1030 bp of the At1g28480 sequence upstream of the putative transcriptional start site, six TGAC/G motifs are found. Typical as-1-like elements are characterized by two binding sites with 12 bp between the palindromic centers. In this arrangement, the sequence requirement is less stringent (CITATION). An as-1-like sequence (TGAC/GCACnnnnTTAC/GTAA) is located between positions −80 and −99 relative to the putative transcriptional start site, which is similar to its relative position within the CaMV 35S promoter. Also, four binding sites for WRKY transcription factors, which are often over-represented in pathogen-inducible promoters (CITATION), are located in the GRX480 promoter (Figure 1a). In order to test whether GRX480 interacts with other TGA factors than TGA2 and NtTGA2.2, the classical yeast two-hybrid system was used. The prey plasmid isolated in the original screen (pGAD10-GRX480) was transformed into yeast HF7c cells containing either NtTGA2.2, TGA2 or TGA6 fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD) and assayed for growth on histidine drop-out medium (Table 1). Prototrophic growth was detected whenever GRX480 was co-expressed with one of the TGA factors tested. Consistent with the BiFC assays, GRX480 was found to interact not only with NtTGA2.2 but also with the Arabidopsis orthologs TGA2 and TGA6. Interaction with NtTGA2.2 was confirmed by a domain swap experiment that used yeast cells expressing GRX480 fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain and NtTGA2.2 fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD). Using this experimental set-up, interaction with other TGA factors encoding an activation domain could be tested. TGA factors of distinct classes such as NtTGA1a and NtTGA10 interact with GRX480 in this assay. Yeast cells (HF7c) containing the indicated fusion proteins were grown for 2 days at 30°C on drop-out medium lacking histidine, leucine and tryptophan. +, histidine prototrophy; −, no growth. BD, GAL4 DNA-binding domain; AD, GAL4 activation domain. As NPR1 is a redox-regulated protein (CITATION), we asked the question whether the interaction with TGA factors can recruit GRX480 into the vicinity of NPR1. Therefore, a yeast ‘bridge assay’ was carried out with BD–GRX480 and AD–NPR1 fusion proteins expressed together with NtTGA2.2. Growth under selective conditions occurred only when NtTGA2.2 was provided as a bridging component (Table 1). Thus, it is possible that these three proteins form a ternary complex in planta, as soon as sufficient amounts of NPR1 accumulate in the nucleus. As outlined above, Arabidopsis encodes 31 related GRX genes, raising the probability of functional redundancy. A unique feature of GRX480 is its specific 31 amino acid N-terminal domain (Figure 1a). To test whether this domain contributes to the interaction with TGA factors, an N-terminal deletion of GRX480 (GRX480ΔN) was tested in a quantitative yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 2). In addition, GRX370 (At5g40370), a classical CPYC type glutaredoxin, which is highly represented in the EST databases, was challenged for its interaction with TGA2 (see Figure S2 for the alignment of GRX480 with GRX370). Individual yeast clones expressing either GRX480 or GRX480ΔN varied dramatically with regard to their interaction with TGA factors, independently from the amounts of proteins synthesized as analyzed by Western blot analysis. However, it can be concluded that TGA2 interacts with GRX480 and GRX480ΔN but not with GRX370 (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] The effect of GRX480 on as-1-mediated gene expression was first analyzed in transgenic Arabidopsis lines encoding the ß-glucuronidase gene (GUS) under the control of the ‘truncated’ CaMV 35S promoter (as-1::GUS), encoding the sequences +1 to −90. The as-1 element is the only upstream regulatory element of this promoter fragment and confers responsiveness to 2,4-D and SA (CITATION). The GRX480 coding sequence under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter was transformed into Arabidopsis lines that had been previously transformed with as-1::GUS. GRX480-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis lines were selected by Western blot analyses using an αHA antibody that detects the HA3-tagged transgenic protein (data not shown). As shown in Figure 3(a), 2,4-D-induced GUS transcript levels decreased in two lines with high HA3:GRX480 expression, whereas transgenic lines with only slightly enhanced HA3:GRX480 levels showed a response almost identical to that of the control plants. Thus, GRX480 negatively affects as-1-mediated gene expression. Interestingly, SA inducibility of the as-1::GUS reporter construct was found to be lower than 2,4-D inducibility (CITATION), which might be due to a negative feedback regulation after accumulation of the endogenous GRX480 protein upon SA induction. This mechanism might be saturating, as only marginal effects of HA3:GRX480 were observed on as-1::GUS after SA induction (data not shown). Also, SA-induced expression of PR-1 was only twofold reduced in line 1 (Figure 3b). A negative effect of HA3:GRX480 was not observed for 2,4-D-induced GST6, which contains a functional as-1-like element in its promoter (CITATION). Ectopic expression of HA3:GRX370, which does not interact with TGA factors, did not reveal any negative influence on the expression of the reporter gene, although the protein was clearly detectable by Western blot analysis (Figure S3a,b). The repressive effect of GRX480 on the activity of the ‘truncated’ CaMV 35S promoter prompted us to test whether GRX480 might be involved in the down-regulation of genes after SA treatment. One well-known example of such a gene is the JA-responsive gene PDF1.2 (CITATION), the induction of which is antagonized by SA. In order to analyze whether GRX480 affects PDF1.2 induction, HA3:GRX480 plants (line 3) and control plants were treated with JA and analyzed for PDF1.2 expression in a time-course experiment. PDF1.2 expression was strongly impaired (Figure 4a), indicating that GRX480 might be involved in the down-regulation of JA responses. LOX2 and VSP, two other JA-inducible genes that were shown previously to be negatively regulated by SA, were repressed to a much lesser extent (twofold) in HA3:GRX480 line 3. To analyze whether the GRX480-mediated effect on the PDF1.2 promoter depends on the presence of interacting TGA factors, HA3:GRX480 was expressed in the tga2 tga5 tga6 triple mutant. Figure 4(b) shows that a transgenic line that expresses HA3:GRX480 even more strongly than HA3:GRX480 line 1 does showed induced PDF1.2 transcript levels that are similar to those for a sister line that does not express the transgene. Thus GRX480 requires the TGA2 sub-class to negatively affect transcription. Impairment of JA-induced PDF1.2 transcription was not observed in transgenic plants ectopically expressing HA3:GRX370, which does not interact with TGA factors (Figure S3c). To ensure that the negative effect of GRX480 on PDF1.2 expression is not an artefact created by the HA3 tag, a second construct leading to the expression of an untagged GRX480 was generated and transformed into Arabidopsis plants. As shown in Figure 4(c), expression of the untagged derivative also suppressed PDF1.2 expression. Likewise, the GRX480-specific N-terminal domain, which was shown in Figure 2 to be dispensable for the interaction with TGA factors, is also dispensable for the repressive activity. In order to estimate whether PDF1.2 suppression can be caused by the amounts of GRX480 that occur in wild-type plants after SA induction, we compared the endogenous and transgenic transcript levels. In the absence of SA, the transcript levels of line 1, which were sufficient to confer suppression of PDF1.2 induction (Figure 4b,c), were only twofold higher than endogenous transcript levels after SA induction (Figure 4d). Assuming that both transcripts are translated with comparable efficiency, we conclude that the negative effect of GRX480 is unlikely to be caused by abnormally high levels of the transgenic protein. It has been described previously that SA-mediated suppression of JA-responsive genes requires the presence of NPR1 (CITATION). In order to analyze whether NPR1 is necessary for the GRX480-mediated repression of PDF1.2 transcription, HA3:GRX480 was ectopically expressed in the npr1-1 mutant. Transformants and the appropriate control plants (wild-type, npr1-1) were subjected to a ‘cross-talk’ experiment that included treatment with SA, JA, SA/JA and the solvent (0.01% ethanol) alone. The influence of SA/JA antagonism is clearly observed for PDF1.2 in Col-0 wild-type plants. As described previously (CITATION), this negative effect was partially compromised in the npr1-1 mutant (Figure 5a). However, HA3:GRX480 is functional in the absence of NPR1 as shown for the respective transgenic line in the npr1-1 mutant background. Taking the NPR1 dependence of GRX480 transcription into account, GRX480 must be positioned downstream of NPR1 in the SA-mediated suppression of PDF1.2. ERF1 is a transcriptional regulator that induces expression of PDF1.2 and other JA-responsive genes when over-expressed in Arabidopsis (CITATION). As shown in Figure 5(a), this global regulator of JA-related defense responses is also under the control of the NPR1-mediated SA/JA antagonism. However, ERF1 expression is not subject to negative regulation by GRX480. Thus, although ERF1 and PDF1.2 are both down-regulated in an NPR1-dependent manner, this regulation may be exerted through various mechanisms. This is supported by the different responses of ERF1 and PDF1.2 in the tga2 tga5 tga6 mutant. In this mutant, SA/JA antagonism is working for ERF1 but not for PDF1.2 (Figure 5b). This finding that different mechanisms for SA/JA cross-talk exist in Arabidopsis is extended by the expression pattern of the PR gene HEL. JA-induced transcription of HEL is also subject to the negative effect exerted by SA, but this effect is independent of NPR1 (Figure 5a). Suppression of 2,4-D-induced as-1::GUS transcription by GRX480 is likely to be caused by a direct effect of TGA factor activity, as their binding sites are the only regulatory modules in this construct. Such a mechanism might also act on the PDF1.2 promoter, which contains a TGAC/G motif at positions −399 to −395 relative to the predicted transcriptional start site (CITATION). Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments with an antiserum directed against the C-terminal regions of TGA2 and TGA5 confirmed the assumption that TGA factors bind to the PDF1.2 promoter in vivo. The PCR signal was lacking in the tga2 tga5 tga6 triple mutant, supporting the specificity of the assay (Figure 6). Thus it is possible that – within certain promoter contexts – DNA-bound TGA factors are directly involved in SA- and GRX480-mediated repression. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (Col-0 background) containing an as-1::GUS reporter construct (CITATION) were provided by J. Arias (University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA). Arabidopsis npr1-1 and tga2 tga 5tga6 mutants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre and Y. Zhang (University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada), respectively. Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil under controlled environmental conditions (21/19°C, 100 μmol photons m−2 sec−1, 16 h light/8 h dark cycle, 60% relative humidity). The soil was heated for 10 min at 90°C before use. Before sowing the seeds, pots were irrigated with water containing a starter fertilizer (0.5 ml l−1 Wuxal liquid, AgNOVA Technologies; http://www.agnova.com.au) and an insecticide (CONFIDOR WG70, Bayer; http://www.bayercropscience.com.au). All seeds on moist soil were vernalized at 4°C for 2 days before placing them in the growth chamber. To maintain moderately high humidity, plant trays were covered with a lid with an air inlet for the first 3 weeks of growth. Plants were watered at 2-day intervals. For phytohormone treatments, 3-week-old plants were carefully uprooted. The roots were washed twice in beakers containing tap water until the soil was completely removed. Plants were subsequently transferred to 30 ml of 50 mm sodium phosphate buffer containing the respective chemicals in 0.01% ethanol in Petri dishes and allowed to float for the indicated durations. Chemical treatment included 20 μm MeJA, 1 mm SA, 20 µm MeJA/1 mm SA or 0.1 mm 2,4-D. Chemicals were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). For each time point and chemical treatment, material from 15 plants was collected. For each RNA preparation, 200 mg of the pooled samples was used. For transient expression of the YN:TGA2 and YC:GRX480 fusion proteins, GATEWAY-compatible vectors (Invitrogen; http://www.invitrogen.com/) were used (pE-SPYNE and pE-SPYCE, constructed by Caroline Mayer and Wolfgang Droege-Laser, University of Göttingen, Germany). Transformation of Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was performed as described previously (CITATION). After an overnight incubation at 25°C in the dark, the transformed cells were subjected to microscopic analysis using a BX-60 fluorescence microscope (Olympus; http://www.olympus-global.com/). In order to generate binary vectors for the expression of HA3-tagged glutaredoxin proteins GRX480, GRX370 and GRX480ΔN (from which the first 31 amino acids were deleted), the respective pDONR vectors were incubated with binary destination vector pAlligator2 (CITATION) that contains the GATEWAY recombination sites located downstream of a sequence encoding an HA3 tag (http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/index.php). The final construct expresses GRX derivatives N-terminally fused to the HA3 tag under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Using a cloning strategy involving overlapping PCR, the CaMV35S::HA3:GRX480 construct was modified so that the resulting GRX480 open reading frame starts directly at the methionine of the HA3 tag. For generation of transgenic plants, binary plasmids were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90). The resulting agrobacteria were used to transform Col-0 (containing as-1::GUS) or npr1-1 plants using the floral dipping method (CITATION). Transgenic seeds were scored for the seed-specific GFP marker under a fluorescent microscope (BX51, Olympus) using light of wavelength 460 nm. If all of the seeds of an F2 silique were GFP-positive, the plant was scored as homozygous. To express the C-terminal domains of TGA2 and TGA5 as fusion proteins with glutathione-S-transferase (GST) for antigen production, the cDNA sequences encoding amino acids 64–329 were amplified by PCR and cloned into the pGEX4T-1 vector (Amersham Biosciences; http://www5.amershambiosciences.com/). Expression and purification of the antigens for generation of a polyclonal antiserum, and the generation of the antiserum were performed as described by CITATION. Leaf material (5 g) from Arabidopsis plants grown for 6 weeks under a 8 h light/16 h dark cycle were used. Nuclei were isolated as described previously (CITATION) with the following modifications. Briefly, the frozen tissue was ground with a pestle under liquid nitrogen, resuspended in 20 ml extraction buffer (1 m hexylene glycol, 50 mm PIPES KOH, pH 7.2, 10 mm MgCl2, 5 mm 2-mercaptoethanol), and homogenized for 5 min using a Miccra -D8 homogenizer (14 000 rev min−1, ART Labortechnik; http://www.art-labortechnik.com). The homogenate was passed through a double layer of Miracloth (Calbiochem; http://www.merckbiosciences.com). Triton X-100 (25%) was added dropwise to the resulting liquid fraction with constant stirring to a final concentration of 1% to lyse organelle membranes. The lysate was gently layered on top of a 6 ml 35% Percoll cushion (Sigma-Aldrich) in gradient buffer (0.5 m hexylene glycol, 50 mm PIPES KOH, pH 7.2, 10 mm MgCl2, 5 mm 2-mercaptoethanol, 1% Triton X-100). After centrifugation at 2100 g for 30 min in a swinging bucket rotor, the nuclei were found as a pellet at the bottom of the tube. Nuclei were resuspended in 21 ml of gradient buffer and again gently layered on top of a 6 ml 35% Percoll cushion. After centrifugation as above, the pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of gradient buffer and centrifuged at 2100 g for 10 min. The pellet containing the nuclei was stored for no longer than a week at −80°C. For chromatin preparations, nuclei from 5 g of formaldehyde cross-linked leaf material were first resuspended in 1 ml sonication buffer (10 mm HEPES/NaOH, pH 7.4, 1 mm EDTA, 0.5% SDS) and diluted with 1 ml sonication buffer without SDS. Chromatin was sheared to an average size of 500 bp by repetitive sonication (CITATION). The final centrifugation was performed at 11 200 g for 20 min at 4°C. The supernatant contains the chromatin that is used for subsequent immunoprecipitations (CITATION). DNA was resuspended in 35 µl (ChIP DNA) or 175 µl (input control) of water for PCR analysis. Real-time PCR quantification was performed using the SYBR Green technology in a Mini Opticon Real PCR device from Bio-Rad (http://www.bio-rad.com/). PCR amplifications of 2.5 µl of the template DNA were performed in the presence of 0.25 µm of each primer, 100 µm deoxynucleotide triphosphate, 4 mm MgCl2, a 10−5 dilution of the SYBR Green stock (Cambrex Bio Science Rockland Inc., http://www.cambrex.com) and 1.25 U Immolase DNA polymerase mix (Bioline; http://www.bioline.com) in buffer provided by the manufacturer. The PCR regime was: 95°C for 7 min, and 35 cycles of 95°C for 20 sec, 60°C for 20 sec and 72°C for 28 sec. Using the oligonucleotides PDFsense (5′-TTCAGTAATAGGTGTGTCCCAGG-3′) and PDFantisense (5′-GCGGCTGGTTAATCTGAATGG-3′), a 323 bp promoter fragment (−260 to −582) was amplified. Methods for yeast protein extracts, Western blots, RNA gel blot analysis, yeast screen, assays, strains and plasmids are described in Appendix S1.
