!~ABS~! Gibberellic acid (GA) promotes seed germination, elongation growth, and flowering time in plants. GA responses are repressed by DELLA proteins, which contain an N-terminal DELLA domain essential for GA-dependent proteasomal degradation of DELLA repressors. Mutations of or within the DELLA domain of DELLA repressors have been described for species including Arabidopsis thaliana, wheat (Triticum aestivum), maize (Zea mays), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), and we show that these mutations confer GA insensitivity when introduced into the Arabidopsis GA INSENSITIVE (GAI) DELLA repressor. We also demonstrate that Arabidopsis mutants lacking the three GA INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) GA receptor genes are GA insensitive with respect to GA-promoted growth responses, GA-promoted DELLA repressor degradation, and GA-regulated gene expression. Our genetic interaction studies indicate that GAI and its close homolog REPRESSOR OF ga1-3 are the major growth repressors in a GA receptor mutant background. We further demonstrate that the GA insensitivity of the GAI DELLA domain mutants is explained in all cases by the inability of the mutant proteins to interact with the GID1A GA receptor. Since we found that the GAI DELLA domain alone can mediate GA-dependent GID1A interactions, we propose that the DELLA domain functions as a receiver domain for activated GA receptors.
!~RES~! The dominant GA-insensitive Arabidopsis gai-1 mutant expresses a mutant gai protein with a 17–amino acid deletion of the highly conserved N-terminal DELLA domain (CITATION). Following the identification of the DELLA domain deletion in Arabidopsis gai-1, DELLA domain mutations were also identified in dwarfing alleles of DELLA repressor genes from several crop species, including wheat, maize, and barley (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on the apparent importance of the DELLA domain for GA-induced DELLA protein degradation, it was hypothesized (but with the exception of the barley protein never shown) that these mutations lead to a stabilization of the respective DELLA proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, there is no obvious correlation between the extent of growth repression conferred by the different DELLA mutations and their expected severity. For example, while a 5–amino acid deletion in the DELLA domain seems to be responsible for extreme dwarfism in D8-1 mutant maize, a predicted large truncation of the protein's N terminus, including the DELLA domain and the neighboring VHYNP domain, suppresses plant growth only moderately in maize D8-Mp1 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 1A online) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This gives rise to the hypotheses that either the nature of the DELLA domain mutations or the specific genetic backgrounds determine the severity conferred by these mutations. We wanted to study the effect of the different DELLA domain mutations in a homogenous genetic background. To this end, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that contain genomic fragments for the expression of wild-type Arabidopsis GAI or GAI variants carrying DELLA domain mutations reported for the dwarfing alleles from Arabidopsis gai-1, maize D8-1 and D8-Mp1, wheat Rht-B1b and Rht-D1b, and barley Sln1D (Figures 1A and 1B ) (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For each construct, at least 10 transgenic lines were generated, and eight lines were analyzed at the biochemical and physiological level. While endogenous wild-type GAI and wild-type GAI expressed from the GAI:GAI transgene is efficiently degraded in response to GA, we found that the mutant gai proteins are fully stabilized in lines expressing variants with a partial or full deletion of the DELLA domain (GAI:gai and gai-1, GAI:D8-1, GAI:Rht, and GAI:D8-MP) (Figure 1C). In agreement with the previously reported observation that the SLN1D protein from barley is still partially GA sensitive, GAI:Sln1D plants, producing a GAI variant with a single amino acid substitution in the DELLA domain, express a partially stabilized gai mutant protein (Figure 1C) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In all cases, the degree of GAI stabilization correlates well with the level of growth suppression in the transgenic lines. All transgenic plants expressing fully stabilized GAI variants are GA-insensitive, dark-green, late-flowering dwarfs that are phenotypically indistinguishable from the Arabidopsis gai-1 mutant (Figure 1D; see Supplemental Figures 1B and 3 online). Again in agreement with the previously reported observation that the Sln1D allele from barley is still partially GA sensitive, we observed a partial reduction of elongation growth and a delay in the onset of flowering in GAI:Sln1D lines that was significantly less severe than that observed in lines expressing fully stabilized mutant gai proteins (Figure 1D). When we examined the consequences of GAI stabilization on RGA protein accumulation, we noticed that RGA protein levels are strongly reduced in all lines expressing stabilized GAI variants (Figure 1C). Since GA-insensitive mutants, such as gai-1, were reported to contain increased levels of GA (CITATION), we reasoned that increased GA-promoted RGA degradation may be responsible for this effect. Indeed, when we treated plants expressing stabilized GAI variants with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (PAC), RGA protein levels increased, suggesting that GA levels regulate DELLA repressor abundance, at least in part, by promoting their degradation (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). In summary, we conclude that partial or full deletions of the DELLA domain, as previously reported for dwarfing alleles of several crop species, cause (when introduced into Arabidopsis GAI) GA insensitivity with respect to GA-promoted protein degradation and GA-promoted plant growth. Hence, the differences in the severity of dwarfing mutations, such as the D8-1 and D8-Mp mutations from maize, may be attributable to differences in the genetic background of these alleles. The biological role of the three apparent Arabidopsis homologs (GID1A, AT3G05120; GID1b, AT3G63010; and GID1c, At5G27320) of the rice GA receptor GID1 was recently determined, and it was found that the three GID1 genes have redundant functions in mediating GA responses (CITATION). We also analyzed GA responses in T-DNA insertion mutants for each of the three Arabidopsis GID1 genes (Figure 2A ). For our analysis, we selected three mutant alleles with in-gene in-exon T-DNA insertions, namely, gid1a-1, gid1b-1, and gid1c-2. Our gene and allele nomenclature is identical to the one used in the previous publications of these genes (CITATION; CITATION), and with the exception of the gid1c-2 allele used in our study, identical mutant alleles were used for physiological analysis and genetic experiments. We found that while single mutants of each of the three GID1 genes do not have obvious defects in GA-controlled growth responses, such as germination, GA-induced hypocotyl elongation, elongation growth, or flowering time, gid1 double and triple mutants are partially (double mutants) or fully (triple mutants) impaired in these responses (Figures 2B to 2D). Therefore, our gid1 triple mutants display a complete suppression of GA responses and are phenotypically indistinguishable from severe GA biosynthesis mutants, such as ga1-3, in that they fail to germinate and, after manual removal of the seed coat, develop into dark-green severely dwarfed plants with a maximum rosette diameter of 1 cm (Figures 2B to 2D). In contrast with ga1-3, which is the most severe GA biosynthesis mutant described in the literature (CITATION), and in contrast with the gid1 triple mutant described in a recent publication (CITATION), our gid1 triple mutants never flower even in long-day conditions (8 h dark/16 h light), continuous light conditions, or when treated with GA3 (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This difference in phenotype severity may be attributable to the fact that we used the allele gid1c-2 to generate the gid1a-1 gid1b-2 gid1c-2 triple mutant, whereas the above-mentioned report (CITATION) made use of the allele gid1c-1. The T-DNA insertion of the gid1c-2 mutation (GABI_639F05) resides in the second exon of the GID1c gene, and this mutation may affect gene function more severely than the T-DNA insertion in gid1c-1 (SALK_023529), which is located in the GID1c intron (Figure 2A). Taken together, based on our genetic analyses and the biochemical analyses conducted by others (CITATION; CITATION), we conclude that the three Arabidopsis GID1 proteins have redundant functions as GA receptors and that gid1 triple mutants are insensitive to GA. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the GA insensitivity observed in the gid1 triple mutant correlates with DELLA repressor stabilization, we tested RGA and GAI abundance in the gid1 mutants (Figure 3A ). Interestingly, neither the gid1 single mutants nor the gid1 double mutants showed the increase in DELLA protein levels expected for mutants impaired in GA perception. Although minor differences in RGA and GAI abundance may be observed in the comparison of individual gid1 single and double mutants in the experiment shown in Figure 3A, these differences were generally not reproducible and cannot be considered significant. However, we observed a significant and reproducible accumulation of RGA but not of GAI in the gid1 triple mutant (Figure 3A). Furthermore, following GA treatments that cause complete degradation of these proteins in the wild type, RGA and GAI were found to be fully stabilized in the gid1 triple mutant (Figure 3B). We thus conclude that the gid1 triple mutants are GA insensitive with respect to DELLA protein degradation and that GAI and RGA accumulate to different levels in the gid1 receptor mutants. [[FIGURE]] Since we could show that gid1 triple mutants are GA insensitive at the physiological and biochemical level, we next examined whether their GA insensitivity also extends to GA-regulated transcription. To this end, we dissected ga1 and gid1 triple mutant seedlings from seeds, allowed the dissected seedlings to grow for 1 week on growth media, and subjected the phenotypically identical mutant seedlings for 1 h to 100 μM GA3 or a mock control treatment (three biological replicate samples for each mutant and each treatment). With the exception of the GA1 and GID1 genes mutated in the respective loss-of-function mutants, gene expression analyses with the Arabidopsis ATH1 gene chip identified only a single gene that is differentially expressed between mock-treated ga1 and mock-treated gid1a-c (data not shown). Thus, ga1 and gid1 mutants are not only identical at the phenotypic level but also at the level of gene expression. In turn, the analysis of the GA-treated ga1 mutant resulted in the identification of 120 GA-repressed and 28 GA-induced genes (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Table 1 online). In line with previous gene expression studies, this analysis identified GAI as being induced in response to GA and GID1A, GID1b, SLY1, and several genes encoding proteins required for GA biosynthesis as being repressed in response to GA (see Supplemental Table 1 online) (CITATION; CITATION). Importantly, the expression of the 148 genes regulated by GA in ga1 was not affected by the GA treatment in the gid1 triple mutants (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Furthermore, the direct comparison of the expression profiles of mock-treated and GA-treated gid1 triple mutants did not lead to the identification of any GA-regulated genes in the gid1 triple mutant. Thus, our findings suggest that all GA-regulated transcriptional responses are mediated by the GID1 GA receptors in Arabidopsis, at least at the seedling stage. Next, we generated a transgenic line expressing a fusion protein of GID1A and green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (35S:GID1:GFP). Overexpression of GID1:GFP in the wild-type background resulted in a slight reduction of flowering time and correlated with a slight reduction in RGA protein levels when compared with wild-type plants (Figures 4A and 4C ). Furthermore, the 35S:GID:GFP transgene was able to complement the germination, elongation, and flowering time defects of the gid1 triple mutant, indicating that the fusion protein retained functionality (Figure 4B). As described for the rice GID1 protein, the GFP-tagged Arabidopsis GID1A protein localizes to the nucleus, the presumed site of action of the DELLA repressors, and to the cytoplasm. Furthermore, the localization of the GID1A receptor was not altered by GA treatments or by treatments of the GA biosynthesis inhibitor PAC (Figure 4D; data not shown) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To gain evidence for the in vivo interaction between GID1A and the DELLA repressors, we immunoprecipitated GID1:GFP with an anti-GFP affinity matrix. Using protein extracts of sly1-10 mutant seedlings, which accumulate the DELLA repressors, we were able to coimmunoprecipitate RGA in a GA-dependent manner (Figure 3D). Our attempts to coimmunoprecipitate GID1:GFP and GAI in a similar experiment were not successful, most likely due to the comparatively lower affinity of the anti-GAI antibody. Nevertheless, this experiment indicates that GID1A can interact with DELLA proteins in vivo. In rice, the introduction of a SLENDER RICE loss-of-function mutant completely suppresses the gid1 mutant phenotype. In a similar experiment, we introduced GAI and RGA loss-of-function alleles (gai-t6 and rga-24) into the Arabidopsis gid1 triple mutant background. In the resulting quintuple mutant, we observed a dramatic suppression of almost all aspects of the gid1 mutant phenotype, including the defects in germination, elongation growth, and flowering time (Figure 3E). Quadruple mutants lacking only GAI or RGA suppressed the gid1 triple mutant phenotype to a comparatively minor extent, but the suppression by rga-24 was significantly stronger than that by gai-t6 (Figure 3E). Since the gai-t6 and rga-24 mutations are in a different Arabidopsis ecotype (Landsberg erecta) than the gid1 mutations (Columbia), we were concerned with the effect of the genetic background on the mutants' phenotypes. Since the complexity of the genetic experiment and the severity of the mutant phenotypes prevented us from performing repeated backcrosses, we restricted our analysis to quadruple and quintuple mutants that were genotyped as being homozygous wild type for the Columbia allele of the ERECTA (ER) gene. ER is mutated in Landsberg erecta, and this mutation is at least in part responsible for the differences in elongation growth between the Columbia and Landsberg erecta ecotypes (CITATION). A minimum of four plants was identified for each quadruple and quintuple mutant in the Columbia ER background, and all plants belonging to the same group were phenotypically indistinguishable. Taken together, our genetic and biochemical data strongly support the notion that GID1 proteins interact with DELLA proteins in a GA-dependent manner in vivo and that the DELLA repressors GAI and RGA are the major growth repressors in the absence of GA signaling in an Arabidopsis GA receptor mutant background. Since mutations of the GAI DELLA domain and mutations of the GID1 GA receptors confer GA-insensitive growth (Figures 1 and 2), and since DELLA proteins and GID1 proteins interact in vivo (Figure 3), we reasoned that the GAI DELLA domain itself may mediate the interactions with the GID1A GA receptor. Following up on experiments made by others, we used the yeast two-hybrid system to demonstrate that GAI can interact with GID1A in a GA-dependent manner in yeast (CITATION). We then tested the gai mutant variants in this interaction assay and found that all gai mutant variants with a partial or full deletion of the DELLA domain fail to interact with GID1A (Figure 5 ). This finding is in agreement with recent reports that the DELLA domain of RGA is required for GID1A interactions (CITATION). Consistent with our observation that plants expressing GAI:Sln1D are partially impaired in GA responses, we detected an ∼10-fold reduction of the interaction between the Sln1D mutant variant and GID1A over a range of GA concentrations (Figure 5C; data not shown). In a complementary experiment, we observed that the GAI DELLA domain alone (amino acids 1 to 73) is sufficient to mediate GA-dependent interactions with GID1A and that the presence of the adjacent VHYNP domain (amino acids 1 to 115) does not contribute to the strength of this interaction. Thus, our results support the notion that the DELLA domain serves as a receiver domain for the GA receptor following GA binding and that the loss of this interaction is the molecular cause for the GA insensitivity observed in the previously reported dwarfing alleles of DELLA repressor genes from a range of species. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All gid1 alleles are from Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre and the GABI-KAT facility (Max-Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research) (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR-based genotyping: gid1a-1 was genotyped using 5′-attB1-CGGATCCTGGCTGCGAGCGATGAAGTTAATC-3′ and 5′-attB2-CTGCAGTTAACATTCCGCGTTTACAAACGCCG-3′ to test for the wild-type gene and 5′-attB2-CTGCAGTTAACATTCCGCGTTTACAAACGCCG-3′ and LBb1 to test for the T-DNA insertion. gid1b-1 was genotyped using 5′-ATGGCTGGTGGTAACGAAGTCAACC-3′ and 5′-CTAAGGAGTAAGAAGCACAGGACTTGAC-3′ to test for the wild-type gene and 5′-CTAAGGAG TAAGAAGCACAGGACTTGAC-3′ together with 5′-CTTATTTCAGTAAGAGTGTGGGGTTTTGG-3′ to test for the insertion. gid1c-2 was genotyped using 5′-ACCAGCTGATGCTGGCACTTCACCAAGT-3′ and 5′-GGCATTCTGCGTTT ACAAATGCAGCTATCT-3′ to test for the wild-type gene and 5′-CAGACAGTGGTTCCTCTCAATACA-3′ together with 5′-CCCATTTGGACGTGAATGTAGACAC-3′ to test for the insertion. rga-24 was genotyped using 5′-GGTGATTTTCACGGTGGTTG-3′ and 5′-TCGCTTAGTAGTTAGTACTC-3′ to amplify the wild-type gene fragment and 5′-CATAGACCATAGTATTCGTGA-3′ and 5′-TCGCTTAGTAGTTAGTACTC-3′ to amplify the mutant allele. gai-t6 was genotyped using 5′-CTAGATCCGACATTGAAGGA-3′ and 5′-AGCATCAAGATCAGCTAAAC-3′ to amplify the wild-type gene and 5′-CTAGATCCGACATTGAAGGA-3′ and 5′-TCGGGTACGGGATTTTCGCAT-3′ to amplify the gai-t6 insertion allele. The alleles gid1a-1, gid1b-1, and gid1c-2 were used to generate mutant combinations. The genotypes of important mutant combinations, such as the gid1a gid1b gid1c rga-24 gai-t6 mutants, were confirmed three times using independent genomic DNA preparations. To generate GAI:GAI, GAI:gai, etc., the open reading frames of GAI and gai mutant variants were obtained by overlap extension PCR and introduced into the vector pGREEN0179 containing 2-kb GAI upstream and downstream sequences (CITATION). All constructs were designed and cloned in an identical manner. In detail, the 2-kb GAI promoter fragment was amplified by PCR from ecotype Columbia genomic DNA using 5′-CTCGAGTATTACTTCTTTAGAAAAAATAATGTTTGG-3′ and 5′-GAATTCATTGGCGATGGATCCCATGGTTGGTTTTTTTTCAG-3′ and inserted as an XhoI-BamHI fragment into pGREEN0179. Subsequently, the 2-kb GAI downstream sequence was amplified using 5′-GGATCCATCGCCAATGAATTCTAGATGGTGGCTCAATGAATTGATC-3′ and 5′-GAGCTCCGTGGCGGAAGTACCGCTGAAAG-3′ and inserted as a BamHI-SacI fragment into the above construct. Into the resulting BamHI and EcoRI restriction sites, full-length GAI and gai were ligated after amplification from wild-type and gai-1 mutant genomic DNA. PCR fragments containing gene-specific deletions were then generated and used to replace part of the GAI wild-type sequence: For GAI:Rht1, a PCR product was obtained with 5′-GGATCCGTTATGATGTCTAATGTTCAAGAA-3′ and 5′-CTGCAGTCACCCAGGTCGAAGCGCAAGAG-3′. For GAI:Sln1D, an overlap PCR product was inserted that had been obtained with the primer pairs 5′-GGATCCAAGAGAGATCATCATCATC-3′ and 5′-CATTTCGGATGACCTAACCTTGTACTCAAGAACAGCTAGAAGCTCATCCAT-3′ as well as 5′-ATGGATGAGCTTCTAGCTGTTCTTGAGTACAAGGTTAGGTCATCCGAATG-3′ and 5′-CTGCAGTCACCCAGGTCGAAGCGCAAGAG-3′. For GAI(D8-1), an overlap PCR product was obtained with the primer pairs 5′-GGATCCAAGAGAGATCATCATCATC-3′ and 5′-CTACATAACTTCAAGCTGCTCGAGCCCAGCCATTTCGGATGACCTAACCTTGTAAC-3′ as well as 5′-GGTTACAAGGTTAGGTCATCCGAAATGGCTGGGCTGGAGCAGCTTGAAGTTATGATG-3′ and 5′-CTGCAGTCACCCAGGTCGAAGCGCAAGAG-3′ for GAI(D8-1). At least 10 transgenic lines were generated in the Columbia ecotype, and eight lines were analyzed at the phenotypic level. 35S:GID1GFP was generated by inserting the GID1A open reading frame amplified by RT-PCR with the primers 5′-attB1-ATGGCTGCGAGCGATGAAGTTAATCT-3′ and 5′-attB2-CACATTCCGCGTTTACAAACGCCGAAATC-3′ into 35S-GW-GFP (a gift from the Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research) via pDONR201 using the Gateway system. At least 10 transgenic lines were generated in the Columbia ecotype, and eight lines were analyzed at the phenotypic level. The 35S:GID1GFP transgene was introduced into the gid1 triple mutant background. Complementing 35S:GID1GFP gid1 triple mutant plants were identified in the F2 generation by genotyping as described above. Specific anti-GAI and anti-RGA peptide antibodies were raised in rabbits and affinity-purified against the specific peptides GGDTYTTNKRLKC (amino acids 127 to 139 of GAI) and KRDHHQFQGRLSNHGC (amino acids 2 to 16 of RGA; Eurogentec). Both peptide sequences are specific for the respective DELLA proteins. Immunoblots were performed using 45 μg of total plant protein extract prepared in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, 150 NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100, 10 μM MG132, 0.1 μM PMSF, and Sigma-Aldrich protease inhibitor cocktail, pH 7.5). For immunoprecipitation of GID1:GFP, 400 μg of plant extract from the wild type or a 35S:GID1GFP-expressing line was preincubated with 20 μL of anti-GFP agarose (Vector Laboratories) in a binding buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, 150 NaCl, 10 μM MG132, 0.1 μM PMSF, and Sigma-Aldrich protease inhibitor cocktail, pH 7.5). Following three washes in wash buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl and 150 NaCl), GID1:GFP fusion protein bound to the matrix was mixed with 200 μg of protein extract from 7-d-old sly1-10 mutant seedlings in the presence and absence of 100 μM GA3 and incubated for 3 h in binding buffer. Following three washes in wash buffer, the resin was resuspended in loading buffer, and equal volumes were loaded for immunoblot analysis. GID1:GFP was detected with an anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen) or an anti-GID1 peptide antibody raised in rabbits and affinity-purified against the GID1A-specific peptide FGGNERTESEKSLDG (Eurogentec). For gene expression profiling, nongerminating ga1 and gid1 triple mutant seedlings were dissected and grown on solid growth medium for 1 week in continuous light. For each mutant, three replicate samples (biological replicates) were subjected to a mock spray treatment with water (uninduced control), and three replicate samples were subjected to a spray treatment with 100 μM GA3 (Duchefa). After 1 h, the plant material was frozen in liquid nitrogen, and RNA was extracted from each replicate using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). Complementary RNA was prepared from 1 μg of total RNA from each replicate as described using the MessageAmp II Biotin-Enhanced Signal Round aRNA amplification kit (Ambion). In brief, double-stranded artificial DNA was synthesized and biotin-labeled target artificial RNA was prepared by artificial DNA in vitro transcription in the presence of biotinylated UTP and CTP. After purification, artificial RNA was fragmented and used to hybridize the Arabidopsis ATH1 GeneChip array (Affymetrix). Hybridization, washing, staining, scanning, and data collection were performed for each replicate sample independently in an Affymetrix GeneChip Fluidics Station 450 and GeneArray Scanner. The microarray computational analysis was performed on CEL data files and analyzed using the robust multiarray average GC method (gcRMA) of the GeneSpring software (version 7.2; Agilent Technologies). Means of the three replicate values were analyzed for each data set. Data sets with expression levels below 50 were excluded from comparative analysis (noise level of expression cutoff). Genes were considered as induced or repressed if their mean expression level deviated >1.75 in a comparison of two samples. Statistical significance of gene expression was tested using a one-way analysis of variance test combined with a Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate multiple correction algorithm (GeneSpring version 7.2) with an adjusted P value < 0.05 set as cutoff. The gene tree was generated with the 148 genes identified as being GA regulated using the Pearson correlation and average linkage algorithms of the GeneSpring software. The microarray data were submitted to the Gene Expression Omnibus and are available under the accession numbers GSM177119 to GSM177121 (ga1 mutant experiment), GSM177122 to GSM177124 (ga1 mutant + GA3), GSM177125 to GSM177127 (gid1a-c mutant experiment), and GSM177128 to GSM177130 (gid1a-c mutant experiment + GA3). The intracellular distribution of GID1:GFP was examined in roots of 35S:GIDGFP plants using a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope. Propidium iodide was used to outline the cell boundaries. Yeast two-hybrid constructs were obtained by insertion of GAI and its mutant variants into the vector pGAD424(+2) as BamHI-PstI fragments excised from the pGREEN0179-based GAI constructs described above to generate AD:GAI, AD:gai, etc. (CITATION). Constructs expressing only the DELLA domain (AD:D) and the DELLA and VHYNP domains (AD:D+V) were constructed by insertion of a PCR fragment obtained with the primers 5′-GGATCCAAGAGAGATCATCATCATC-3′ and 5′-CTGCAGTCAAGTCTCAGTAGCGAGTTGAGA-3′ to generate AD:D or 5′-GGATCCAAGAGAGATCATCATCATC-3′ and 5′-CTGCAGTCAAGCGAACTGATTGAGAATCGCGTC-3′ to generate AD:D+V. The GID1A open reading frame was obtained by RT-PCR from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia mRNA and inserted in frame into the yeast two-hybrid vector pGBT9. Yeast two-hybrid interaction studies were performed in the yeast strains Y187 and Y190 using standard protocols (CITATION). In brief, DBD and DBD:GID1A constructs were transformed into Y190 and mated with Y187 strains harboring AD, AD:GAI, AD:gai, etc. DBD and AD plasmids were selected on dropout medium lacking Leu and Trp. LacZ filter lift assays were performed with yeast clones grown on dropout medium lacking Leu and Trp in the absence and presence of 100 μM GA3. Quantitative LacZ assays were conducted in a Mithras LB940 luminometer (Berthold) using protein extracts prepared from clones grown in liquid dropout medium lacking Leu and Trp in the absence and presence of 100 μM GA3 using the Galacton-Star reagent (Tropix) as a luminescent substrate. Average relative light units/μg protein were determined from four replicates, and fold induction was calculated. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: ER (AT2G26330), GID1A (AT3G05120), GID1b (AT3G63010), GID1c (AT5G27320), GAI (AT1G14920), RGA (AT2G01570), and SLY1 (AT4G24210). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of Arabidopsis GAI with Maize, Wheat, and Barley Orthologs, and Transgenic GAI:gai Plants Mimic the gai-1 Gain-of-Function Mutant Phenotype. Supplemental Figure 2. Anti-GAI and Anti-RGA Antibodies Specifically Recognize the Respective DELLA Protein. Supplemental Figure 3. Mutants Expressing Stabilized GAI Variants Are GA Insensitive. Supplemental Figure 4. Growth of ga1 GA Biosynthesis Mutants but Not That of gid1 Triple Mutants Can Be Normalized by GA Treatment. Supplemental Table 1. Genes That Are Repressed or Induced by 100 μM GA3 Treatment (1 h) in a ga1 Allele (SALK_109115, Columbia Ecotype) and Their Expression in the gid1a-c Triple Mutant.
