!~ABS~! During Arabidopsis embryogenesis, the control of division between daughter cells is critical for pattern formation. Two embryo-defective (emb) mutant lines named quatre-quart (qqt) were characterized by forward and reverse genetics. The terminal arrest of qqt1 and qqt2 embryos was at the octant stage, just prior to the round of periclinal divisions that establishes the dermatogen stage . Homozygous embryos of a weaker allele of qqt1 were able to divide further, resulting in aberrant periclinal divisions. These phenotypic analyses support an essential role of the QQT proteins in the correct formation of the tangential divisions. That an important proportion of qqt1 embryos were arrested prior to the octant stage indicated a more general role in cell division. The analysis of QQT1 and QQT2 genes revealed that they belong to a small subgroup of the large family encoding ATP/GTP binding proteins, and are widely conserved among plants, vertebrates and Archaea. We showed that QQT1 and QQT2 proteins interact with each other in a yeast two-hybrid system, and that QQT1 and QQT2 tagged by distinct fluorescent probes colocalize with microtubules during mitosis, in agreement with their potential role in cell division and their mutant phenotype. We propose that QQT1 and QQT2 proteins participate in the organization of microtubules during cell division, and that this function is essential for the correct development of the early embryo.
!~RES~! The qqt1 mutant (EIC6 line, INRA Versailles collection; http://arabidopsis.info) was identified by screening T1 populations of T-DNA transformed Arabidopsis plants (Wassilewskija [Ws] ecotype) for an embryo-defective (emb) phenotype. The number of emb lines with embryos arrested at eight cells without initiation of protoderm formation was very low in the collection, and represented only 0.01% of the 16 000 plants screened. The qqt1/QQT1 plant showed a wild-type phenotype for plant size, leaf morphogenesis and flower development. However, the emb phenotype, illustrated by 1/4 white seeds for 3/4 green phenotypically wild-type seeds (126 white seeds, 389 green seeds, χ2 = 0.041), was observed in the siliques after selfing. At the late heart-cotyledon stages of embryo development, abnormal seeds became readily distinguishable as white seeds compared with green seeds. When wild-type embryos were at the torpedo stage (Figure 1j), the phenotype of qqt1 embryos was determined (Table 1). The terminal arrest of qqt1 embryos was at the octant stage. Mutant embryos arrested at octant stage (Figure 1d,e) were different from wild-type octant embryos (Figure 1a,b). Histological comparison of cells of embryo and suspensor showed that mutant cells were slightly larger and vacuolated compared with wild-type cells, although their nucleus and nucleolus did not obviously differ in either size or organization (Figure 1k,l). In this mutant line, we did not observe embryos performing periclinal divisions leading to the formation of the protoderm. However, 1.7% of the mutant embryos (Table 1) were able to perform additional divisions leading to embryos with abnormal shapes. The size of the qqt1 seed at torpedo stage was larger than that of a wild-type seed at octant stage (Figure 1a,d), and the number of nucleoli greatly exceeded 40. This result showed that endosperm was not blocked after three successive mitoses, unlike cells of the embryo proper. The final size of qqt1 seeds was in agreement with the important role of the endosperm in the control of seed size (CITATION). These observations suggest that endosperm and embryo development in qqt1 were affected in cell division in different ways. Furthermore, at the young torpedo stage, the majority of qqt1 embryos were composed of less than eight cells exhibiting a normal pattern (Table 1). We concluded that qqt1 embryos were also impaired in cell division during early embryo development in addition to their inhability to perform periclinal divisions. [[FIGURE]] *Numbers indicate the percentage of mutant embryos in each class when wild-type seeds are at torpedo stage. Cosegregation of qqt1 phenotype and T-DNA insertion was verified on a kanamycin-resistant population of 234 plants. Southern blot analysis of the mutant genomic DNA using probes corresponding to the T-DNA revealed a single insertion. The plant genomic sequences flanking the left and right borders of the T-DNA were identified by PCR walking (CITATION). The T-DNA has integrated in the second intron of At5g22370 (Figure 2a), 90 nucleotides upstream from the beginning of the exon and resulted in a deletion of 24 bp without further rearrangements. The QQT1 gene encodes a protein of 298 amino acids of unknown function. Two insertion lines were found in the Seedgenes collection (http://www.seedgenes.org) in which the T-DNA was inserted in the same intron (Figure 2a). Mutant embryos of the SALK_059852 (emb1705-2) line revealed that the terminal stage of arrest was octant stage, like qqt1 embryos, and that most embryos were impaired throughout early embryogenesis (Table 1). Crosses demonstrated that qqt1 and SALK_059852 were allelic (136 wild-type seeds, 44 emb seeds, χ2 = 0.01). Analysis of embryos of a third insertion line, emb1705-1, highlighted less severe defects in embryo development (Table 1). A few mutant embryos were arrested at early stages (8%) and at the octant stage (21%), but most embryos were able to divide further (70.1%). The eight embryonic cells achieved periclinal but incorrect divisions as compared with wild type (Figure 1c,f,g). The 8–16 cells of the embryo proper rapidly degenerated, as suggested by the Nomarski images of seeds. On the contrary, suspensor cells either continued to divide and form a line of between seven and nine cells similar to mature wild-type suspensors (Figure 1f), or cells proliferated abnormally and resembled suspensors of some globular arrested mutants (Figure 1g; CITATION). In addition, emb1705-1 seeds at mid-embryogenesis were yellow–green because of proplastids differentiation in the endosperm occurring simultaneously with the phenotypically wild-type seed. We concluded that emb1705-1 represents a weaker allele of QQT1. In this less severe allele, the mutation again affected the embryo proper and the endosperm in distinct ways. [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm that the qqt1 phenotype resulted in insertion of the T-DNA at the At5g22370 locus, a complementation experiment was performed by transforming qqt1/QQT1 heterozygous plants with a construct containing QQT1 cDNA under the control of 1 kb of its own promoter region (ProQQT1:QQT1). Four independent transformants were obtained and T2 plants were analysed after selection on antibiotics. We found that 100% of the seeds in the siliques showed a wild-type phenotype (100 < n < 150 per T2 plant), in agreement with effective complementation. Together these experiments demonstrated that disruption of At5g22370 by a T-DNA insertion was responsible for the qqt1 phenotype. Database searches revealed that QQT1 was highly conserved in higher plants. In addition, QQT1 protein was similar over its entire length to vertebrate proteins of unknown function, showing 72% similarity (55% identity) to human (AAH08634) and mouse (Q8VEJ1) homologues. The QQT1 protein presented 70% similarity (50% identity) with the YOR262W (Q08726) protein of baker’s yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Null mutation of YOR262W also led to a lethal phenotype in yeast (CITATION). Interestingly, YOR262W has been shown to interact with YJR072C in a double hybrid assay (CITATION). We identified At4g21800 as a putative homologue of YJR072C (75% similarity, 57% identity) in Arabidopsis. We used reverse genetics to study its function and searched for T-DNA insertion lines in the different collections. We identified an insertion line (SALK_026078) at the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory site (http://signal.salk.edu/). A T-DNA has inserted in the sixth intron of At4g21800 (Figure 2a). Plants showed an emb phenotype (73 white seeds, 303 green seeds, χ2 = 2.34) similar to that of qqt1 embryos (Figure 1d,e,h,i). Therefore we named this gene QQT2. The main difference of the qqt2 phenotype compared with that of qqt1 was that fewer embryos were arrested before octant stage (25%), and that the majority reached the terminal octant stage (70.1%, Table 1). ProQQT2:QQT2 was used to complement the qqt2 phenotype. Six independent transformants obtained after selection on antibiotics were analyzed and presented 99–100% of phenotypically wild-type seeds (100 < n < 200). These results confirmed that the qqt2 phenotype resulted from the insertion of T-DNA in At4g21800. In addition, Nomarski analysis of 100 white seeds obtained from crosses between qqt1 and qqt2 showed that embryos were arrested before four cells (26.3%), at four cells (50%), between four and eight cells (13.2%) and at eight cells (10.5%), indicating that the qqt1qqt2 phenotype was not more severe than the phenotype of the qqt1 single mutant. Taken together, these results support the idea that these two genes influence the same aspects of the process of cell division during early embryo development. To test whether these mutations could also have a gametophytic effect, reciprocal crosses of qqt1 and qqt2 alleles were performed. Such crosses confirmed that these mutations produced mainly sporophytic effects (Table 2). QQT1 contains an ATP/GTP binding site motif A (P-loop) spanning from G-9 to T-16 (Figure 2b). Leucine-rich repeats were predicted from L-74 to L-102. When the deduced amino acid sequence of QQT1 was aligned against protein databases, only two sequences matched in the Arabidopsis genome. The first was At4g12790 and the second At4g21800 (QQT2). The Pfam 03029 motif including the ATP/GTP binding site was conserved in the three members (Figure 2b). QQT2 differed from the two other members by the presence of terminal extensions at the N- and C-termini, and one insertion (from N-47 to I-68). The three proteins constitute a small subgroup in the large family of conserved hypothetical ATP-binding proteins. A phylogenic tree (Figure 3) built using the darwin program (CITATION) indicated that the genomes of rice and other plants, of yeast, human and of many other eukaryotes, but not of prokaryotes, possess three genes, putative orthologues of QQT1, QQT2 and At4g12790. The three proteins and their orthologues were similar over their entire length.The origin of these genes is ancient as they are present in Archae, but as a single copy. No function has been assigned to the proteins encoded by QQT1 and At4g12790 and their respective orthologues in other species. YLR072C, the yeast QQT2 orthologue, has been shown to be present in the pre-60S ribosomal particles and has been renamed Npa3 for Nucleolar preribosomal-associated protein (CITATION). However, as the yeast Npa3p is localized in the cytoplasm, there is no evidence for a direct role in ribosome biogenesis. [[FIGURE]] To assess the function of the third member of the family, we analysed the SAIL449A09 insertion line where the T-DNA is inserted in the eigth exon. We did not observe a qqt phenotype, probably indicating that either At4g12790 did not participate in the function of At5g22370 and At4g21800 at octant–dermatogen transition or was not essential. As an interaction between YOR262W and YJR072C has been shown in yeast (CITATION), a two-hybrid assay was performed to test the existence of an interaction between the two Arabidopsis proteins. A full-length QQT2 was used as bait because, as for the yeast protein, QQT1 could activate the yeast reporter gene on its own when fused to the GAL4-BD domain (data not shown). When yeast cells were transformed with empty vectors and either AD-QQT1 or BD-QQT2, limited growth was observed on the selective medium (Figure 4). However, cell growth was significantly enhanced when the two proteins were present in the same cell demonstrating a clear interaction between QQT2 and QQT1 (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] To analyse in detail the expression of QQT genes during the octant–dermatogen transition, we performed in situ hybridization with QQT1 and QQT2 probes on seeds at different stages of development. A uniform signal was detected throughout the embryo at octant stage with the QQT1 probe (Figure 5a). After dermatogen stage, the expression became stronger in the inner cells of the embryo from globular to torpedo stage. These inner cells will define the provascular tissues (Figure 5b–e). No staining was observed at later stages in embryogenesis. With the QQT2 probe, a uniform staining was observed throughout the embryo from octant to heart stage. No staining above background was detected in later stages of embryogenesis (Figure 5i). Generally, the intensity of the signal for QQT2 was lower than for QQT1 (Figure 5b-d,g-h). [[FIGURE]] To determine the expression of QQT1 and QQT2 during vegetative growth, we used a GUS reporter gene assay. The promoter fragment of 1036 bp used for the complementation of QQT1/qqt1 plants, and which thus probably contained the sequences necessary to direct a correct gene expression, was used to drive the expression of GUS. The construction was made by insertion of the uidA Open Reading Frame (ORF) at the initiation codon of QQT1 in the second exon. Therefore, the promoter region of QQT1 also included the putative regulatory elements located in the first exon and first intron in the 5′untranslated region (UTR) (Figure 2a). QQT1 promoter activity was analysed in seedlings and adult plants of five independent transgenic lines. GUS activity was detected in all the vascular tissues of the plant (Figure 6a–e). In root, the staining was also enhanced in root tips (Figure 6a). Root sections showed that staining was strong in the stele and pericycle, and in the emerging secondary root primordium (Figure 6b). Other primordia, like floral primordia, were also stained (Figure 6e). QQT1 was highly expressed in apical and root meristematic regions (Figure 6a,d). No activity was detected either in pollen grains or ovules (data not shown). Similarly, the 0.8-kb promoter region of QQT2 was joined to the GUS reporter gene. As the QQT2 gene organization was similar to that of QQT1, the first exon and intron of the 5′UTR were included in the construction (Figure 2a). Seven independent transformants were examined. In most plant organs, e.g. root, leaf and flower, GUS expression was restricted to individual cells (Figure 6f–i). Intriguingly, frequently these stained cells were close to the vasculature (Figure 6i), although the vascular bundles were not stained. This expression pattern was reminiscent of the patchy staining pattern reported for the promoters of cell cycle proteins (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To obtain further information on their function and to establish their intracellular localization, QQT1 and QQT2 fused with fluorescent proteins were expressed in Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bright-Yellow-2 (BY-2 tobacco) cells. At interphase, the fluorescence was mainly present in the cytoplasm with a weak signal in the nucleus (Figure 7a,b). During cell division, QQT1 protein fusion appeared as filaments staining the PPB, the spindle and the PHR during mitosis (Figure 7d–f). In the same manner, QQT2-GFP labelled the spindle (Figure 7g). As a control, BY-2 cells transformed with a vector containing GFP alone did not present such a staining network (Figure 7c,h). When BY-2 cells were cotransformed with QQT1-GFP and QQT2-RFP fusions, the signal of QQT2-RFP fusion was much lower compared with QQT2-GFP (Figure 7g,j), but was still higher than the cell autofluorescence level (verified in non-transformed BY-2 cells). Both proteins were colocalized on spindle microtubules (Figure 6i–k), whereas colocalization observed at interphase did not reveal labelling at the cortical microtubule array (Figure 7l–n). The common localization between QQT1 and QQT2 supported the results obtained in the two-hybrid assay. To confirm that localization of QQT1 and QQT2 corresponded to cytoskeleton filaments, we transformed BY-2 cells with a GFP-tubulin fusion (CITATION) and either QQT1 or QQT2 fused with red fluorescent protein (RFP). Colocalization was observed between either QQT1 or QQT2 and tubulin on spindle and phragmoplast (Figure 8a–l). Furthermore, treatment of BY-2 cells with oryzalin resulted in a loss of organization of the fluorescent labelling pattern in cells expressing QQT1-GFP (Figure 8m–o) and GFP-tubulin (Figure 8p–r). These results showed that QQT1 and QQT2 were associated with microtubules during cell division. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown either in soil or in Petri dishes under constant illumination at 22°C. EIC6 mutant line was obtained from INRA Versailles. Mutant lines from the Salk collection (CITATION) and the Seedgenes collection were obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://arabidopsis.info/). Seedlings were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium containing kanamycin at 100 mg l−1 and/or hygromycin at 30 mg l−1 and transferred to soil after 2 weeks. Siliques from heterozygous plants at different stages of maturity were opened under the binocular to remove the seeds. Seeds were treated for either clearing or histological section as described in CITATION. Plant genomic sequences adjacent to the T-DNA insertion in EIC4 were isolated by the PCR walking method (CITATION). To clone the full-length QQT1 cDNA we first designed two specific primers, QQT1fw (5′-aagcatggtgtttggacaagtagtaatag) and QQT1rv (5′-ccttcagaagaggctttagtttag), to amplify a cDNA fragment. 5′ and 3′ untranslated sequences of QQT1 were obtained by RACE PCR with a 5′/3′ RACE kit (First choice RLM-Race kit; Ambion, http://www.ambion.com/) using a cDNA library from flower buds built according to manufacturer’s instructions. For 5′UTR, nested primers were N1 (5′-ccattaggaccaagcgagtg) and N2 (5′-caccacactcataaggtaatgc) and for 3′UTR, E1 (5′-cttgtcatacttggagcacc) as detailed in the protocol. A promoter fragment of 1036 bp of the QQT1 gene, defined as ProQQT1 was amplified from genomic DNA (Col0) with primer (5′-actcgaggatccgtcgcaccacggcgc-3′) including XhoI and primer (5′-accatggttctgaagacgaagaag-3′) including NcoI. The dual 35S promoter was removed from pRTL2-GUS (a gift fom J. Carrington; Oregon State University, Corrallis, USA) and replaced by the Xho1-Nco1 promoter sequence to create ProQQT1:GUS. The QQT1 cDNA was amplified by PCR from flower buds first-strand cDNA with primer (5′-ccatggtgtttggacaagtag-3′) containing NcoI and primer (5′-ctctagaggttcatacaaaccgtc-3′) containing Xba1. This fragment was cloned into ProQQT1:GUS after removing the Nco1-Xba1 GUS fragment. The ProQQT1:QQT1 cassette was inserted into pBIB-HYG, a binary vector carrying hygromycin resistance (CITATION). Heterozygous plants were transformed by the floral-dip protocol (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on hygromycin and kanamycin. The T2 progeny of the four ProQQT1-QQT1 individual primary transformants were genotyped by PCR with QQT1fw and QQT1rv primers. In addition, four siliques per plant were opened and seeds counted. For QQT2, a 3-kb genomic sequence containing ProQQT2 (728 bp), the QQT2 coding region and 500-bp downstream from the stop codon was amplified using 3B1-qqt2 (5′-cacaaatcagccctaactctg-3′) and Gatrevqqt2 (5′-atttgtgtatccccgaatgacg-3′) fused respectively with attB1 and attB2. The PCR products were recombined into pDONR221 vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). The fragment was sequenced and shuttled into pHGWFS7 (CITATION). Heterozygous SALK_026078 plants were used for transformation. Analysis of the progeny was performed as described for QQT1. Full-length QQT1 cDNA was amplified by PCR using primer B1qqt1 (5′-taatggtgtttggacaagtagtaatagg-3′) and B2qqt1 (5′-tgtcttgtatttcctcatcttcc-3′) and transferred into pDONR207 (Invitrogen). After sequencing, the fragment was recombined into pDEST 22 (Invitrogen) fused with the activation domain of GAL4. Full-length QQT2 cDNA was recombined into pDEST32 (Invitrogen) in fusion with the GAL4 DNA binding domain. Plasmids were cotransformed into yeast strain MAV203 (Invitrogen) using the lithium acetate procedure, and plated onto yeast minimum medium lacking either Leu and Trp, or Leu, Trp and His. Either 10 or 20 mm of 3-amino-1,2,4-Triazole (3-AT) was added in the selective medium. The ProQQT1:GUS cassette was introduced into the Sal1-Xba1 sites of pBIB-HYG. For analysis of ProQQT2:GUS, a fragment of 739 bp of the promoter sequence was amplified with primers 3B1-qqt2 (5′-aatgatttgtatatacttaagcttttcc-3′) and B2-proqqt2 (5′-cagtggcgaaatttgcttttttc-3′). This insert was transferred after sequencing to pKGWFS7 to get GUS fusion. Tissues from T2 ProQQT1:GUS and ProQQT2:GUS plants were incubated in 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5), containing 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com/), 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide and 0.1% Triton X-100 for 36 h at 37°C followed by washes in 70% ethanol. Several independent lines were analyzed (five for QQT1, seven for QQT2). Roots of ProQQT1:GUS transgenic plants were dehydrated, embedded in Technovit 7100 resin (Kulzer, http://www.kulzer.com ) after GUS staining. Sections of 10 μm were observed. Seeds at different developmental stages were fixed and embedded in paraffin. Sections of 7 μm were hybridized according to a previously described method (CITATION). A cDNA QQT1 fragment of 400 bp was amplified using primers QQT1fw and QQT1rv and introduced into the pGEM-T vector (Promega, http://www.promega.com). A QQT2 fragment of 418 bp was amplified with BPQQTse (5′-tatgtctctaccatttggtgcc-3′) and BPQQTre (5′-gcaaacttgtgatctgcgac-3′). Images were taken with a Zeiss Axioskop2 (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.fr) using a camera Leica DC350FX (Leica, http://www.leica.fr). Because the size of QQT1 is smaller than the nuclear exclusion limit of GFP, the QQT1 sequence was fused to GUS-GFP downstream from the CaMV35S promoter at the Nco1 site into the pGG vector provided by F. Barnèche, Cell Signalling Laboratory, Naples, Italy (personal gift). QQT2-GFP fusion was obtained by amplifying cDNAQQT2 using primers B1BP-fw (5′-tgatggatcctatggagtcgtctagtg-3′) and B2BP-rev (5′-taggtagtaatgcttcgtctcg-3′), recombined in pDONR221 (Invitrogen) and transferred to PK7FWG2. QQT1-RFP and QQT2-RFP were obtained by recombination into pH7RWG2 (CITATION). A binary vector containing a fusion construct of GFP and tubulin (sGFP-TUA) was kindly provided by Prof. Hasezawa (University of Tokyo, Japan). Cell transfornmation was performed as described in CITATION. Three independant transformations were performed in order to analyse the intercellular localization of QQT proteins as protein-GFP expression decreased rafter a few weeks in the cell lines. Oryzalin was added to BY-2 cells just before kinetics were recorded. Irradiation occured every five minutes to avoid photobleaching. At least 10 independent cells were recorded. Confocal microscopy analysis was performed with a Zeiss LSM510. GFP fluorescence was monitored with a 505–550 nm band-pass filter under 488-nm excitation. RFP fluorescence was followed with a long-pass filter under 543-nm excitation. Typically, sections of 1-μm thickness were taken. Images were processed with ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image ) and Adobe Photoshop (http://www.adobe.com) to adjust contrast.
