!~ABS~! The ECTOPICALLY PARTING CELLS 1 (EPC1) gene encodes a putative retaining glycosyltransferase of the GT64 family, and epc1-1 mutant plants have a severely dwarfed phenotype. A new mutant allele of this gene, epc1-2, has been isolated. Reduced cell adhesion that has previously been reported for the epc1-1 mutant was not observed for either the epc1-1 or epc1-2 mutants grown in our conditions, suggesting that EPC1 does not affect cell adhesion but is involved in some other process affecting plant growth and development. It is shown that the epc1-2 mutant exhibits hypersensitivity to the phytohormone abscisic acid in germination and root elongation assays, however it shows an unaltered response to gibberellin, epi-brassinosteroid, auxin, or ethylene. An EPC1:YFP fusion protein is localized to small motile structures within the cytosol that are similar in size and number to the Golgi apparatus. Analysis of cell wall pectins revealed that levels of β-(1,4)-galactan in the epc1-2 mutant are reduced by 50%, whilst other pectic polysaccharides (homogalacturonan, arabinan, and rhamnogalacturonan II) are unchanged.
!~RES~! A dwarf mutant was isolated from a screen for stature mutants from the INRA-Versailles Arabidopsis T-DNA tagged population (ecotype Ws). Southern analysis using a probe to the T-DNA showed a single band in a number of digests (SacI, SmaI, and XhoI) (data not shown) indicating the presence of a single T-DNA insertion. Inverse-PCR was used to clone the sequences flanking both left and right borders of the T-DNA. Analysis of these sequences revealed that the T-DNA was inserted into the 4th exon of the EPC1 gene (Fig. 1). The EPC1 gene (At3g55830) was identified by CITATION who described their analysis of the epc1-1 mutant which is a Syngenta SAIL line (68a11) carrying a T-DNA insertion in the first intron of the Arabidopsis EPC1 gene in ecotype Columbia (Col). Like the SAIL line 68a11, the epc1-2 mutant is severely reduced in stature (Fig. 2). Leaf area, and stem and root elongation are all greatly reduced, and it has a slightly delayed flowering phenotype in both long and short photoperiods. In addition the epc1-2 mutant also displays early senescence (cotyledons start to senesce in the mutant after two true leaves have been formed), but it successfully completes a full life-cycle and produces viable seed. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The epc1-2 mutation was shown to be recessive as the F1 backcross population all exhibited a non-dwarf phenotype whilst the F2 population demonstrated a normal phenotypic segregation of 213 non-dwarf to 72 dwarf, a predicted ratio of approximately 3:1. All dwarf plants were found to be phosphinotricin (PPT) resistant which supports linkage of the dwarf phenotype to the T-DNA carrying the BAR gene. A wild-type genomic fragment containing the complete EPC1 coding region (2.1 kb) plus 1 kb of upstream sequence was transformed into the epc1-2 mutant. Complete restoration of the WT phenotype in several transgenic lines confirmed that the mutant phenotype is caused by the T-DNA insertion into the EPC1 gene, and not by any underlying second-site mutations. Two of these complemented lines, epc1-2-C1 (shown in Fig. 2) and epc1-2-C2 were used in further studies. Comparable levels of expression were detected by northern analysis of leaves (in both light and dark), roots, stem, and flowers of WT plants, but no significant expression was detected in these tissues of the epc1-2 mutant. In addition, there was no evidence from the northern, or from RT-PCR analysis, for the existence of a truncated message (up to the point of the T-DNA insertion) in the epc1-2 mutant indicating that this is likely to be a null mutant (Fig. 3; data not shown). WT levels of expression were detected in leaf tissue of each of the complemented lines. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition to EPC1, two other genes encoding GT64 proteins are present in Arabidopsis (At1g80290 and At5g04500). The function of these genes remains unclear at present although it is clear from the dwarfed phenotype of the epc1 mutants that neither of the other two genes can functionally compensate for the inactivation of EPC1. Cell size is generally smaller in the epc1-2 mutant compared with wild-type plants. Epidermal cell lengths in the mutant were less than half the length of those in WT or epc1-2-C1 plants (Fig. 4A). Comparisons of WT and epc1-2 10-d-old seedlings highlighted a significant difference in the length of the primary root (even though the size of the cotyledons at this stage of development remained comparable). On average, the length of the primary roots of epc1-2 seedlings (0.6 cm) was about one-third of the length of seedlings of WT and complemented lines (1.7–1.8 cm). In addition to having a short primary root, the epc1-2 mutant demonstrates an obvious phenotypic abnormality in the number, length, and distribution of the root hairs. Consistent with the reduced shoot epidermal cell size, root hairs of the epc1-2 mutant are significantly shorter than WT and complemented mutant plants (Fig. 4B). Defects in cell elongation and enlargement are known to cause similar root hair phenotypes in the root hair defective 2 (rhd-2) and rhd-3 mutants (CITATION) both of which result in the production of short, stubby hairs similar to those observed for the epc1-2 mutant. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Mutations in enzymes that synthesize certain cell wall pectins result in reduced cell–cell adhesion as is observed in the tobacco nolac-H14 and the Arabidopsis qua1 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Reduced cell adhesion was reported by CITATION for 12-d-old epc1-1 seedlings, although cell adhesion was normal in younger (6-d-old) epc1-1 seedlings. Detailed, comparative analysis of hypocotyls from 12-d-old seedlings of both the epc1-1 and epc1-2 mutants was performed. Sections of the hypocotyls from both mutants and their respective parental ecotypes, Ws and Col, were studied using light microscopy. The number of cells within each of the three cortical cell layers was determined and their size calculated using the JavaImage program. The diameter of the hypocotyls was measured using a standard calibration slide. Sections varied in size and cell number depending upon the position along the length of the hypocotyls. Therefore, to ensure that comparable sections were examined, only sections having between 14–16 cells in the outermost cortical cell layer were analysed. The analysis was repeated for a number of seedlings from each genotype so that four sections (approximately 20 μm apart) each from three blocks of embedded tissue were examined. The integrity of cellular adhesion varied between the 12 sections of hypocotyls from the same genotype, even for Ws and Col seedlings, which may be due to the embedding and sectioning process. Sections showing the greatest and least cell adhesion from each genotype are shown in Fig. 5A–H. It was not evident from this analysis that the epc1-1 or epc1-2 mutants had significantly reduced cell adhesion compared with WT control tissues. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The diameter of the hypocotyl of the epc1-1 mutant was also reported to be much larger than WT at 12 d after germination (CITATION). Average hypocotyl diameters of 12 seedlings of both mutants and their respective WT ecotypes indicated a slightly larger average diameter for both the epc1-1 and the epc1-2 mutants, although the difference was not significant (Fig. 5I). It remains unclear, at present, as to why the observations of CITATION, of reduced cellular adhesion and 5-fold increase in hypocotyl diameter for the epc1 mutants cannot be repeated. However, as no significant differences in cell adhesion or hypocotyl diameter were observed, it would appear that they are not linked to the epc1 mutations or the dwarf phenotype of the mutants. Our observations suggest that EPC1 is therefore unlikely to be involved in cell–cell adhesion but in some other process that is critical for normal plant growth and development. Since reduced stature, such as that observed in the epc1-2 mutant, is often caused by reduced biosynthesis of, or response to, gibberellic acid (GA), the response of the epc1-2 mutant to exogenous GA was tested. Twice weekly application of 10 μM GA could not rescue the dwarf phenotype of epc1-2 indicating that GA biosynthesis was not affected in the mutant. In vitro assays were then used to investigate the response of the mutant to GA. Endogenous GA biosynthesis was inhibited by paclobutrazol (1 μM) and exogenous GA was supplied at concentrations between 0 μM and 100 μM. Hypocotyl elongation of the mutant was comparable with WT plants, suggesting that the epc1-2 mutant does not have an altered response to exogenous GA (Fig. 6A). However, a 10-fold higher level of exogenous GA was required by the epc1-2 mutant to achieve comparable levels of germination to WT plants (Fig. 6B). This demonstrates that whilst epc1-2 responds normally to GA, higher levels of GA than normal are required for germination. As GA is known to act antagonistically to ABA in seed germination, the sensitivity of the epc1-2 mutant to ABA was investigated by measuring germination on media containing norflurazon (a carotenoid biosynthesis inhibitor used to inhibit endogenous biosynthesis of ABA in the seed) with or without exogenous ABA. Figure 6C shows that germination, as measured by radicle emergence, of the epc1-2 mutant is more sensitive to ABA than WT. This increased sensitivity is also seen in the effect of ABA on root elongation, where ABA inhibits the elongation of epc1-2 roots to a greater extent than that of WT roots (Fig. 6D). The increased sensitivity to ABA of the epc1-2 mutant could explain why higher levels of GA are required to stimulate seed germination to the same levels as WT seed. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As the mutant exhibited an altered response to ABA, but not to GA, it was examined whether it had altered sensitivity to other hormones or whether it was specifically affected in its response to ABA. The response to auxin was tested by measuring the inhibition of root growth by increasing concentrations of both indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0–0.5 μM). In each case no significant differences between epc1-2 mutant and WT plants were detected. Similarly, a comparable response to ethylene was observed in epc1-2 and WT plants, epc1-2 demonstrated a normal triple response when grown in the dark, and there was no difference in the inhibition of root growth on 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) (0–100 μM). Furthermore, the epc1-2 mutant shows a normal hypocotyl elongation response to epi-brassinolide, application of which failed to rescue the mutant phenotype. Thus, the epc1-2 mutant is not affected in its response to all hormones, but shows a specific hypersensitivity to ABA. The application of exogenous ABA or auxin had no significant effect on the level of EPC1 gene expression (Fig. 3). To investigate the subcellular localization of the protein, YFP was fused to the C-terminus of EPC1 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. This construct was transformed into Agrobacterium and infiltrated into tobacco leaves. After 3 d, the localization of the fusion protein was examined by laser scanning confocal microscopy of the leaf epidermal cells. The fluorescence was observed in small punctuate structures within the cytoplasm (Fig. 7) which were highly motile (data not shown). The size and number of the structures were typical of what is observed for the Golgi apparatus. This supports recent proteomic observations that EPC1 co-fractionated in subcellular fractionation experiments with known Golgi apparatus proteins (CITATION), and is consistent with the predicted structure of EPC1 as a type II membrane Golgi-localized glycosyltransferase. Most glycosylation products of the Golgi apparatus are integrated into the plasma membrane, or secreted into the extracellular matrix. Therefore, the site of action of the EPC1 glycosylation product is likely to be at, or outside, the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Synthesis of cell wall components involves the action of many glycosyltransferases that are either located in the plasma membrane (cellulose synthase and callose synthase), or in the Golgi apparatus. As EPC1 is a putative retaining glycosyltransferase, and as the GFP localization is consistent with it being in the Golgi apparatus, it is possible that the mutation may affect the synthesis of a cell wall polysaccharide. Analysis of some of the pectic components of the cell wall, namely HGA, α-(1,5)-arabinan (present in both AGPs and rhamnogalacturonan I (RG-I)), and β-(1,4)-galactan (present in RG-I), was carried out using PACE (polysaccharide analysis by carbohydrate gel electrophoresis) of leaf material from epc1-2, WT, and epc1-2-C1 plants. In this technique, oligosaccharides released from the cell wall by the action of a pure and specific hydrolase are derivatized by a fluorophore and the relative quantities of the different oligosaccharides are analysed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (CITATION). As endo-polygalacturonase (endo-PG) cannot hydrolyse highly esterified HGA, an alkaline pre-treatment is necessary to give access to all the HGA (CITATION). The PACE revealed that the quantity of unesterified HGA in epc1-2 was unchanged relative to WT and, furthermore, that the same quantity of total HGA was found after alkaline treatment (Fig. 8). The quantity of β-(1,4)-galactan in epc1-2, however, was only about half of that present in WT cell walls (Fig. 8). The reduced level of β-(1,4)-galactan observed in the epc1-2 mutant fits with the reduced galactose levels observed in the epc1-1 mutant (CITATION). The monoclonal antibody, LM5, which recognizes tetramers of β-(1,4)-galactan was used in immunolocalization studies to investigate whether the distribution of galactan was altered in resin-embedded sections of the epc1-2 mutant, but no differences were observed (data not shown). In contrast to the reduced levels of galactan, the quantity of α-(1,5)-arabinan in the epc1-2 mutant was comparable with WT plants. Complemented mutant plants exhibited WT levels of HGA, α-(1,5)-arabinan and β-(1,4)-galactan (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether there were any differences in levels or composition of RG-II in the mutant, RG-II was extracted and purified as described by CITATION. RG-I is the main polysaccharide and RG-II is a minor polysaccharide in both WT and mutant cell walls. RG-II was mainly present as the borate cross-linked dimer form and the ratio between RG-II monomers and dimers was similar in both the WT and the mutant. The monosaccharide composition of the RG-II dimer was determined by GC of the trimethylsilyl methyl ester methyl glycoside derivatives (CITATION) and was also found to be similar between mutant and WT (data not shown). As AGPs have been implicated in the response of roots to ABA (CITATION), and as inhibiting AGP function using β-glucosyl Yariv reagent inhibits cell division and elongation resulting in a dwarf phenotype similar to the epc1 mutants (CITATION), AGP levels and distribution were examined by immunolocalization. Immunofluorescence of stem, hypocotyls, and root and leaf sections using two monoclonal antibodies JIM13 (CITATION) and CCRC-M7 (CITATION) which recognize some AGP epitopes showed that these epitopes were present and their distribution was not altered in the epc1-2 mutant (data not shown). These results suggest that there is no substantial change in AGP distribution or abundance in the epc1-2 mutant, although it is difficult to rule out the possibility that there is a change in levels or structure of a particular AGP.
!~MM~! Seeds were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. GalU, (GalU)3, endo-PG (EC 3.2.1.15) from Aspergillus japonicus, Gal, Ara, urea, IAA, NAA, ACC, and ABA were purchased from Sigma (Poole, Dorset, UK). H Gilbert (University of Newcastle, UK) kindly provided α-(1,5)-arabinanase (Pseudomonas fluorescens) and β-(1,4)-galactanase (P. fluorescens). All enzymes used in this analysis were analysed for the purity or/and specificity using the PACE method as described in CITATION. All were specific and pure (data not shown). 8-Amino naphthalene-1,3,6-trisulphonic acid (ANTS) and 2-aminoacridone (AMAC) were purchased from Molecular Probes (Leiden, The Netherlands). The mouse monoclonal antibody CCRC-M7 was kindly provided by M Hahn (CCRC, University of Georgia, USA). The rat monoclonal antibody JIM13 was kindly provided by P Knox (University of Leeds, UK). Secondary antibodies (Cy3-conjugated goat anti-rabbit, anti-rat, or anti-mouse) were obtained from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories (West Grove, PA, USA). Prior to growth on agar, seeds were sterilized for 10 min in 30% bleach, then washed several times with sterile water to remove residual bleach. Sterile seeds were plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plus agar growth media (Duchefa) supplemented with 2% sucrose and hormones where indicated. Plants both in media and in soil were grown in 16/8 h light/dark in Sanyo MLR-350 growth cabinets (Sanyo Gallenkamp plc) at 22 °C and 70% humidity under fluorescent lights at 100 μmol m−2 s−1. PPT was sprayed on 2-week-old soil-grown plants at a concentration of 100 mg ml−1. Plants for cell wall and immunolocalization experiments were grown on soil in 10/14 h light/dark, with 65% humidity. Leaves from non-flowering plants were collected to make cell walls. For immunolocalization, hypocotyl, leaf, and the lower and upper parts of the stem were taken from 6-week-old plants. As epc1-2 flowered slightly later than WT and epc1-2–C1 plants, the epc1-2 samples for these analyses were taken 10 d later. 600 ng epc1-2 genomic DNA was digested with SpeI and self-ligated overnight at 16 °C. Inverse-PCR was done using 100 ng self-ligated DNA and primers to the T-DNA insertion RB-K1; 5′-CGAAACGCAGCACGATACG-3′; LB-K1; 5′-GTCCTGCCCGTCACCGAGAT-3′. 40 cycles at 50 °C for 30 s, at 72 °C for 4 min, and at 94 °C for 30 s. A second round of PCR was done with 2 μl of the first PCR reaction at an annealing temperature of 55 °C using nested primers; RB-K2; 5′-ATTTCACGGGTTGGGGTTTCTACA-3′ LB-K2; 5′-GCCAGGTGCCCACGGAATAGTTTT-3′. A 2.6 kb band was isolated and sequenced with the LB-K2 and RB-K2 primers. This band was cloned in pUC18 using the Sureclone Ligation Kit (Pharmacia). A 3.1 kb fragment containing approximately 2.1 kb of the EPC1 genomic sequence, and a 1kb upstream sequence was amplified from 100 ng WT genomic DNA using primers; H1-L: 5′-CGCAACAAAAACGATGAAGA-3′ H1-R: 5′-CCGTCCATAGCTAGAACGTGA-3′. 40 cycles at 60 °C for 30 s, at 72 °C for 3 min, and at 94 °C for 30 s. The fragment was isolated, sequenced and cloned into the binary vector pGPTV-HPT (CITATION). This was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. Epc1-2 mutant plants were transformed by floral dip and transformed seeds were selected on MS agar plates containing 2% sucrose and 20 μg ml−1 hygromycin. The EPC1 genomic coding region was amplified using primers; LPTYFP5′: 5′-TGGCGCGCCAATGGGAGGAGGAGAAGTTA-3′ LPTYFP3′: 5′-TGGCGCGCCCCAGAACCATAAATTGCG-3′. The fragment was cloned as a 5′ translational fusion to the eYFP reporter gene with expression being driven by the 35S promoter. This cassette was cloned between the left and right T-DNA borders of pGREEN II (CITATION) which carried the NPTII gene for selection of transformed plants. This plasmid was transformed into the Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 which had previously been transformed with the pSOUP helper plasmid. Agrobacterium transformed with these reporter constructs were grown to an O.D. of 1.0 and infiltrated into tobacco leaves using a syringe. After 3 d, imaging of YFP fluorescence was performed by using a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal laser scanning microscope. Leaf tissue was frozen in liquid nitrogen and used directly for RNA extractions. Approximately 100 mg frozen leaf tissue from WT and mutant plants was homogenized in 1 ml TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK). Following the addition of 0.2 ml chloroform, each sample was centrifuged (6000 rpm) at 4 °C for 10 min and the supernatant removed. RNA was precipitated with isopropyl alcohol and quantified. 30 μg RNA was used for northern analysis. EPC1 and 18S gene probes were amplified from WT genomic DNA by PCR using the following primers; EPC1; 5′-GAAAGGTTATACACTTCTGAT-3′ and 5′-CGATTTTTCAGGCCAATGCACA-3′ 18S; 5′-CGGCTACCACATCCAAGGAA-3′ and 5′-GCTGGAATTACCGCGGCT-3′. Northern blots were visualized using a Phosphoimager™:SI (Molecular Dynamics, Sevenoaks, UK) and quantified using the ImageQuant® program (Molecular Dynamics). Plant materials were ground in a ball Mixer Mill MM200 (Glen Creston, Middlesex, UK) and the cell walls prepared according to CITATION. Aqueous suspensions were prepared by homogenization in a glass potter before analysis. The analysis of HGA, galactan, and arabinan from cell walls was performed as described in CITATION with modifications for arabinan and galactan. Cell wall material (0.5 mg) was incubated with enzyme in a total volume of 0.5 ml for 4 h. After the reaction, the solutions were boiled and dried. The derivatization was modified by using less ANTS (0.02 mM) and NaCNBH3 (0.2 mM) in a total volume of 40 μl of DMSO/water/acetic acid (20/17/3 by vol.). After the derivatization, the samples were resuspended in 30 μl of 2.4 M urea and 2 μl was loaded onto a polyacrylamide gel. Endo-PG-released oligosaccharides were derivatized with AMAC as described in CITATION. Each biological sample was studied using multiple cell wall preparations, digests, and gels, to yield quantification from at least ten gel lanes in total. Standards were run alongside samples in each gel to obtain a standard curve for quantifying sugars in the samples. For AMAC-derivatized oligosaccharides GalU and (GalU)3 were used as a standard curve. For ANTS-derivatized oligosaccharide fingerprints, galactose, arabinose, and β-(-1,4)-mannotriose standards were used. Extraction of pectic material and further purification of RG-II was performed as described by CITATION. RG-I and RG-II polysaccharides were purified from endo-PG-soluble material by size-exclusion chromatography on a Superdex-75 HR 10/30 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Inc., Uppsala) column eluted at 0.6 ml min−1 with 50 mM ammonium formate, pH 5.3. RG-I, RG-II (monomer and dimer), and oligogalcturonide fractions were manually collected. Each fraction was dialysed and freeze-dried as above. Hypocotyl tissue was harvested from plants grown for 12 d on MS agar plates. The plates were orientated at 90° so that the hypocotyls were in constant contact with the agar [growth conditions used by CITATION for their analyses]. Tissue was fixed for 3 h at room temperature (RT) in 4% formaldehyde, 4% glutaraldehyde, and 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer and dehydrated through an ethanol series. Hypocotyls were embedded in LR white resin at RT, and allowed to polymerize at 60 °C (CITATION). Sections of 0.2 μm were transferred to Formvar-coated glass microscope slides and stained with 1% toluidine blue. Stained tissue was viewed using a light microscope (Olympus IX70) and pictures were taken using a Camedia C-3030 digital camera (Olympus). Calibration was obtained under identical magnification and used to analyse the diameter of the hypocotyls and, with the aid of the JavaImage program, the size of the cells within each of the three cortical cell layers. Sections of the hypocotyls showing 14–16 cells in the outermost cortical cell layer were routinely used to ensure that comparable regions of the hypocotyls were measured. The sections were labelled according to CITATION, except that 2% fetal calf serum in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) was used for 5 min at room temperature before incubation for 1 h with the secondary antibody. Antibodies (rat-JIM13 and mouse-CCRC-M7) were diluted 1:20 in the blocking buffer. The secondary antibodies (cy3 anti-rat or anti-mouse) were diluted 1:200 in blocking buffer. The slides were washed with PBS, stained in Calcofluor white (0.1 mg ml−1 in PBS buffer) for 5 min and then washed with water. Slides were observed using an Olympus BX61 microscope.
