!~ABS~! In yeast and mammals, the AAA ATPase Vps4p/SKD1 (for Vacuolar protein sorting 4/SUPPRESSOR OF K+ TRANSPORT GROWTH DEFECT1) is required for the endosomal sorting of secretory and endocytic cargo. We identified a VPS4/SKD1 homolog in Arabidopsis thaliana, which localizes to the cytoplasm and to multivesicular endosomes. In addition, green fluorescent protein–SKD1 colocalizes on multivesicular bodies with fluorescent fusion protein endosomal Rab GTPases, such as ARA6/RabF1, RHA1/RabF2a, and ARA7/RabF2b, and with the endocytic marker FM4-64. The expression of SKD1E232Q, an ATPase-deficient version of SKD1, induces alterations in the endosomal system of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow 2 cells and ultimately leads to cell death. The inducible expression of SKD1E232Q in Arabidopsis resulted in enlarged endosomes with a reduced number of internal vesicles. In a yeast two-hybrid screen using Arabidopsis SKD1 as bait, we isolated a putative homolog of mammalian LYST-INTERACTING PROTEIN5 (LIP5)/SKD1 BINDING PROTEIN1 and yeast Vta1p (for Vps twenty associated 1 protein). Arabidopsis LIP5 acts as a positive regulator of SKD1 by increasing fourfold to fivefold its in vitro ATPase activity. We isolated a knockout homozygous Arabidopsis mutant line with a T-DNA insertion in LIP5. lip5 plants are viable and show no phenotypic alterations under normal growth conditions, suggesting that basal SKD1 ATPase activity is sufficient for plant development and growth.
!~RES~! Based on a BLAST search, we identified only one putative VPS4/SKD1 homolog in the Arabidopsis genome, At2g27600 (SKD1). We isolated Arabidopsis SKD1 cDNA by RT-PCR of RNA extracted from leaves, roots, and flowers. The nucleotide sequence predicted a protein of 435 amino acid residues and ∼48.5 kD that is 54% identical and 67% similar to yeast Vps4p (Figure 1A ). The analysis of the predicted protein sequence indicated that, like yeast Vps4p and mammalian SKD1 (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), At-SKD1 has a modular structure, with an N-terminal region containing a microtubule interacting and trafficking domain, a canonical AAA ATPase cassette, and a C-terminal domain (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] To understand the phylogenetic relationship of Vps4p/SKD1-related proteins in plants and other eukaryotes, we compared amino acid sequences from 23 phylogenetically diverse organisms. The resulting phylogram showed a well-supported clade (bootstrap value = 95%) containing all the multicellular organisms considered in this analysis (Figure 1B). Whereas fungi and plants seem to all contain only one copy of the gene, a gene duplication event in the vertebrate clade seems to account for the occurrence of two VPS4 copies in mammals, VPS4A and VPS4B/SKD1 We raised peptide antibodies against At-SKD1. Since >170 proteins in Arabidopsis contain AAA ATPase domains (CITATION), we chose three peptides outside the AAA ATPase SKD1 cassette for raising antibodies. The serum containing polyclonal antibodies against the three peptides identified a band of ∼48 kD in Arabidopsis protein extracts (Figure 2A ). To further characterize the affinity of the antisera, we expressed At-SKD1 in Escherichia coli fused to a 6xHis tag. The antibody recognized a band at ∼50 kD size only in the protein extracts from bacterial cells expressing 6xHis-SKD1 but not in the control (bacterial cells transformed with an empty plasmid; Figure 2B), suggesting the antibody does recognize the At-SKD1 protein. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis of protein extracts from leaves, roots, flowers, and seeds indicates that SKD1 is expressed in all of these tissues but at different levels. The highest SKD1 protein level was detected in leaves, whereas the lowest level was in roots (Figure 2C). Once the specificity of the antibodies was tested in immunoblots, we performed immunolabeling experiments on plastic sections of high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted developing Arabidopsis embryos. The antibodies labeled only the cytoplasm and ∼60% of the MVBs analyzed (n = 50). Interestingly, the gold labeling seems to concentrate on discrete domains of the MVB limiting membrane (Figures 2D and 2E, arrows). After confirming the localization of native SKD1 in cytoplasm and MVBs by immunogold labeling, we expressed At-SKD1 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV35S) in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow 2 (BY2) cells to analyze the dynamics of SKD1-positive compartments (Figures 3A to 3F ). The fluorescence signal from GFP-SKD1 was localized to the cytoplasm and to small punctate structures distributed randomly throughout the cell (Figure 3D, arrows). In contrast with the localization of the SKD1 native protein revealed by immunolabeling, GFP fluorescent signal was also observed in the nucleus of the GFP-SKD1 BY2 cells (Figure 3). The nuclear GFP signal is likely due to the partial degradation of GFP-SKD1 as shown in immunoblots of total protein extracts (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Gold immunolabeling studies on high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted GFP-SKD1 BY2 cell lines showed that the fusion protein does localize to the cytoplasm and MVBs (Figure 3F), like the native SKD1 protein in nontransformed Arabidopsis cells (Figures 2D and 2E). We then obtained Arabidopsis plants stably expressing GFP-SKD1 under the control of the CaMV35S promoter and confirmed that the fusion protein shows the same localization pattern seen in tobacco BY2 cells (Figure 3G). Partial degradation of the GFP-SKD1 fusion protein was also observed in Arabidopsis (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). These transgenic plants grow normally, suggesting that the overexpression of GFP-SKD1 does not cause deleterious effects in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] To determine if the SKD1-positive MVBs are involved in the endocytic pathway, we incubated transgenic GFP-SKD1 Arabidopsis seedlings with FM4-64, a fluorescent marker that binds the plasma membrane and is internalized by endocytosis. We incubated transgenic seedling roots in 2 μM FM4-64 for 5 min on ice to minimize endocytosis, rinsed the seedlings, and followed the internalization of the dye at room temperature for 30 min. After 10 min, most of the internalized FM4-64 dye colocalized with GFP-SKD1–positive compartments in root cells, suggesting that GFP-SKD1 is targeted to an endosomal multivesicular compartment (Figure 3G). We performed similar experiments with FM 5-95, which is a less lipophilic analog of FM4-64, and found similar internalization timing and colocalization with GFP-SKD1 (data not shown). To further characterize the identity of the SKD1-positive endosomes, we analyzed the localization pattern of SKD1 in relationship to three endosomal Rab5-related GTPases, RHA1/RabF2a, ARA7/RabF2b, and ARA6/RabF1. We crossed the Pro35S:GFP-SKD1 plants with Arabidopsis lines expressing Pro35S:EYFP (enhanced yellow fluorescent protein)-RHA1/RabF2a, Pro35S:mRFP (monomeric red fluorescent protein)-ARA7/RabF2b, or Pro35S:ARA6/RabF1-mRFP. The colocalization analysis between GFP-SKD1 and the fluorescent fusions of RabGTPases was particularly difficult due to the strong cytosolic signal from SKD1-GFP. However, the careful analysis of the fluorescent signals in epidermal root cells showed partial colocalization of GFP-SKD1 with the three Rab GTPase fusion proteins on punctate structures, likely MVBs (Figures 4A to 4C ). From the totality of recorded GFP-SKD1–positive compartments in epidermal cells from different lines, 79% of them were also labeled with EYFP-RHA1/RabF2a (n = 124), 74% were labeled with mRFP-ARA7/RabF2b (n = 142), and 69% were labeled with ARA6/RabF1-mRFP (n = 133). [[FIGURE]] Since the expression of the GFP-SKD1 and the three endosomal Rab GTPase fluorescent fusion proteins was driven by the CaMV35S promoter, we decided to rule out protein mislocalization due to overexpression by immunolocalizing the native proteins in wild-type plants. We used previously characterized antibodies against ARA6/RabF1 (CITATION) and new antibodies against RHA1/RabF2a and ARA7/RabF2b. Since RHA1/RabF2a and ARA7/ RabF2b are 90% identical and 96% similar to each other, we tested the specificity of the three polyclonal antibodies on recombinant protein extracts from yeast cells expressing Arabidopsis RHA1/RabF2a, ARA7/RabF2b, and ARA6/RabF1 (Figure 5A ). Whereas the anti-ARA6/RabF1 antibodies did not cross-react with the other two Rab5-related proteins, the other two antibodies recognized both RHA1/RabF2a and ARA7/RabF2b but with different affinities. The anti-ARA7/RabF2b showed higher affinity for ARA7/RabF2b, whereas the anti-RHA1/RabF2a showed higher affinity for RHA1/RabF2a. Neither the anti-ARA7/RabF2b nor the anti-RHA1/RabF2a antibodies recognized the ARA6/RabF1 protein. We further tested the specificity of the three antibodies on total protein extracts from wild-type Arabidopsis plants and knockout mutants with T-DNA insertions in RHA1/RabF2a, ARA7/RabF2b, and ARA6/RabF1 (Figure 5B). In all cases, the antibodies showed high specificity for the Rab5-related GTPases and did not recognize any other proteins in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The three antibodies recognized epitopes on MVBs in plastic sections (Figures 6A to 6C ). We then performed double immunogold labeling with antibodies against Arabidopsis SKD1 and against the three Rab5-type GTPases (Figures 6D to 6F). In all cases, the immunogold results support the partial colocalization of SKD1 and the three endosomal Rab GTPases on MVBs shown in the confocal analysis of the fluorescent proteins. [[FIGURE]] The expression of mutated versions of Vps4p/SKD1 that are not able to hydrolyze ATP in mammalian and yeast cells (SKD1E235Q and Vps4pE233Q, respectively) induces dominant-negative endosomal sorting defects. This mutation involves the change of a Glu residue to a Gln residue in a highly conserved region of the AAA ATPase domain, and it has been shown to block ATP hydrolysis in Vps4p and ice plant mc-SKD1 (CITATION; CITATION) and other AAA ATPases, such as N-ethyl-maleimide–sensitive factor (CITATION). To confirm that the equivalent mutation in At-SKD1 (i.e., E232Q) disrupts ATPase activity, we expressed recombinant SKD1 and SKD1E232Q in bacteria and tested the in vitro ATPase activity of both proteins by a colorimetric malachite green-based assay (see Methods). Whereas SKD1 was able to hydrolyze ATP in vitro, the ATPase activity of SKD1E232Q was seriously compromised, confirming that the mutation interferes with the ATPase activity of At-SKD1 (Figure 7A ). [[FIGURE]] To test the effects of this mutation in the plant endomembrane system, we overexpressed GFP-At-SKD1E232Q in tobacco BY2 cells under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. We analyzed nine independently transformed BY2 lines and observed that the green fluorescent signal localizes to a convoluted membranous compartment but not to the cytoplasm (Figures 7B to 7D), consistent with the hypothesis that the ATP-bound form of SKD1 is recruited to endosomal membranes. These GFP-At-SKD1E232Q–positive compartments resemble enlarged endosomal/vacuolar hybrid compartments. However, all GFP-At-SKD1E232Q tobacco BY2 cell lines exhibited a very low growth rate and invariably died within a few weeks after transformation, suggesting that the overexpression of At-SKD1E232Q is lethal in plant cells. We also attempted to isolate T-DNA lines for At-SKD1 to analyze loss-of-function mutant phenotypes. However, none of the analyzed lines showed altered gene expression (data not shown; see Methods for more information). To further analyze the effects of the E232Q mutation in At-SKD1, we attempted to transform Arabidopsis plants with the Pro35S:GFP-AtSKD1E232Q transgene but were unsuccessful, confirming our initial observation that the overexpression of SKD1E232Q causes a lethal phenotype in plants. We then expressed both GFP-SKD1 and GFP-SKD1E232Q under the control of an ethanol-inducible promoter (CITATION). We exposed 1-week-old seedlings to ethanol vapors and observed the localization of the GFP signal in root cells 2 to 5 d after induction. Although expression levels were clearly heterogeneous in different areas of the root, we were able to observe both by immunoblot analysis and confocal imaging that the fusion proteins were expressed in the induced transgenic seedlings (Figures 7E to 7I). However, the levels of expression driven by the ethanol-inducible promoter were much lower than the expression levels in the Pro35S:GFP-SKD1 lines (Figure 7E). Confocal microscopy analysis of the ethanol-induced lines showed that whereas the GFP-SKD1 fusion protein is mostly cytoplasmic as in the Pro35S:GFP-SKD1 lines, the GFP-SKD1E232Q protein showed a wider distribution range, from mostly cytoplasmic to almost exclusively associated with enlarged membranous compartments both in meristematic and fully elongated root epidermal cells (Figures 7F to 7I). These enlarged GFP-SKD1E232Q–positive compartments were very similar to those observed in BY2 cells expressing Pro35S:GFP-SKD1E232Q. In epidermal cells, the enlarged GFP-SKD1E232Q–positive compartments stained with FM4-64 10 min after incubation (Figure 7I). In meristematic cells, the enlarged compartments also stained with FM4-64 but after much longer incubation times, likely due to a lower endocytosis rate in these cells. Since the expression levels were heterogeneous in different areas of the seedlings, we believe that the variation in the distribution pattern of GFP-SKD1E232Q is directly related to the expression level of the fusion protein and the amount of GFP-SKD1E232Q required for triggering the dominant-negative phenotype. To understand the effects of the SKD1E232Q mutation at the ultrastructural level, we studied high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted ethanol-induced seedlings. We found that whereas cells expressing GFP-SKD1 exhibit normal MVBs ∼280 nm in diameter and with numerous internal vesicles, cells expressing GFP-SKD1E232Q have a high proportion of enlarged MVBs with fewer internal vesicles (Table 1 , Figures 8A and 8B ). In both inducible lines, MVBs were labeled with anti-GFP antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), and only GFP-labeled MVBs were considered for the statistical analysis shown in Table 1. Inward budding profiles were frequently observed in the limiting membrane of both control and enlarged MVBs (Figure 8B). However, there was no significant difference in the diameter of the internal vesicles/budding profiles between MVBs in cells expressing either GFP-SKD1 or GFP-SKD1E232Q (P value = 0.132; see Table 1). Quantitative Analysis of MVB Structural Features in Ethanol-Induced Seedlings Expressing GFP-SKD1 and GFP-SKD1E232Q [[FIGURE]] To compare the alteration in MVB architecture caused by SKD1E232Q to the effects of drugs known to affect endosome morphology and function, we also studied high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted seedlings treated with 30 μM wortmannin, a fungal metabolite that specifically inhibits phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3) activity. Production of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) has been shown to be important for a variety of vesicle-mediated trafficking events, including endocytosis and sorting of receptors in multivesicular endosomes (CITATION; CITATION). We found multivesicular compartments in wortmannin-treated root cells that ranged from ∼500 nm to 2 to 3 μm in diameter (Figure 8D). These last highly enlarged and pleiomorphic multivesicular organelles resemble MVB vacuolar hybrid compartments. To test if these compartments derived from MVBs, we performed immunogold experiments with endosomal markers. All multivesicular compartments in wortmannin-treated cells were labeled with the anti-RHA1/RabF2a antibodies, confirming their endosomal origin. In contrast with the MVBs seen in GFP-SKD1E232Q–expressing cells, the diameter of the internal vesicles in the wortmannin-induced compartments was significantly larger and more variable than in MVBs of control seedlings (54.95 ± 8.5 nm in wortmannin-treated MVBs versus 36.8 ± 3.5 in untreated control MVBs; n = 35; P < 0.05) (Figures 8C and 8D). We performed a yeast two-hybrid screening using At-SKD1 as a bait. Amino acids 1 to 435 of the At-SKD1 protein were cloned in frame with the GAL4 DNA binding domain of the bait vector. The resulting bait vector was transformed into mating type A of strain PJ694 and tested for autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene. The yeast two-hybrid screen was conducted using a cDNA library from etiolated Arabidopsis (Col) seedlings. Approximately 18 million clones were screened via mating. Of these, 11 yeast lines tested positive (via selection on His dropout plus 1 mM 3-amino-1,2,4,-triazole and β-galactosidase assay) for interaction. Plasmids were rescued and analyzed via restriction digest. These isolated prey plasmids were retransformed into the alpha mating type of PJ694 and validated in a mating and selection assay with the Arabidopsis SKD1 bait, the empty bait vector, and unrelated baits. Out of seven confirmed positive clones, three were found to encode a predicted protein of 421 amino acids (At4g26750). This protein is 24% identical and 42% similar to murine SBP1/LIP5 (Figure 9A ), which has been characterized as an SKD1 interactor (CITATION). As in mammals and yeast cells, there appears to be only one LIP5 gene in the Arabidopsis genome. We further tested this interaction by performing an in vitro pull-down assay between glutathione S-transferase (GST)-SKD1 and 6xHIS-LIP5 recombinant proteins expressed in bacteria. We found that GST-SKD1 but not GST alone binds to 6xHIS-LIP5 (Figure 9B). [[FIGURE]] Vta1p, the yeast homolog of SBP1/LIP5, has been shown to be a positive regulator of Vps4p ATPase activity in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). To determine how At-LIP5 influences SKD1 activity, we tested the in vitro ATPase activity of SKD1 in the presence or absence of LIP5. Whereas in the absence of LIP5, SKD1 hydrolyzes ∼106 mM of ATP per min/per μg, in the presence of recombinant LIP5, the hydrolysis rate shows a fourfold to fivefold increase (Figure 10A ), indicating that LIP5 is a strong positive SKD1 regulator. [[FIGURE]] Since blocking the ATPase activity of SKD1 seems to lead to lethal effects in plants, we asked whether mutant plants with no LIP5 protein show defects in development. We identified one T-DNA allele, lip5, in the SAIL T-DNA collection to study the loss-of-function phenotype. PCR amplification confirmed that lip5 contains a T-DNA insertion in the last exon of At4g26750 (Figure 10B). RT-PCR of RNA extracts of homozygous lip5 plants with primers flanking the insertion suggests that this is a null mutant (Figure 10C). Interestingly, lip5 mutant plants showed no apparent phenotypic defects in normal growth conditions, suggesting that basal levels of SKD1 activity are enough for plant cell function and development.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia were sterilized in 50% bleach and 70% ethanol for 5 min and then washed with distillated water three times and germinated on Murashige and Skoog (MS)–agar plates supplemented with 20 μg/mL hygromycin. Plants were grown at 22 ± 3°C under 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles. For induction, transgenic seeds were grown on MS-agar plates for 1 week. A piece of filter paper soaked with 50 μL of 70% ethanol was placed inside the plate. Seedlings were studied 3 to 5 d after induction. The T-DNA insertional mutants lip5 (SAIL_854_F08), ara6 (SAIL_880-C07), ara7 (WiscDsLox355B06), and rha1 (SAIL_596-A03) were obtained from the ABRC. The following T-DNA lines with insertions in At-SKD1 were analyzed: GT_5_43384 (Exon Trapping Insert Consortium) and FLAG-450H05 and FLAG-461H04 (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique). Arabidopsis transformation was performed via floral dipping using Agrobacterium tumefaciens cultures (CITATION). Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY2 cells were cultured in a BY2 maintenance medium consisting of MS salts B1 (1 mg/L), inositol (0.1 g/L), 3% sucrose, KH2PO4 (180 mg/L), and 2,4-D (0.2 mg/L). All supplements were purchased from (Sigma-Aldrich). Cells were normally subcultured once a week by transferring 0.2 mL of old culture to 20 mL of fresh medium. Cultures were incubated in the dark at 26°C in a 120 rpm shaker. For transformation of BY2 cells, 5 mL of 3- to 5-d-old BY2 cell culture was mixed with 0.2 mL of overnight-transformed Agrobacterium culture and incubated at 26°C in a 120 rpm shaker for ∼30 h before plating on MS-agar plates containing carbenicillin (500 mg/L) and hygromycin (50 mg/L). After ∼20 d, stably transformed BY2 cell clones were picked and transferred to liquid MS medium supplemented with carbenicillin (500 mg/L) and hygromycin (50 mg/L). Arabidopsis SKD1 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR of RNA extracts from whole Arabidopsis seedlings. RNA extraction was performed with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) and RT-PCR with the RT-PCR system kit from Promega. SKD1 was amplified using the forward primer 5′-CTCTAGAATGTACAGCAATTTCAAGG-3′ (SKD1-F) to generate an Xba1 site before the start codon and the reverse primer 5′-CGAGCTCTCAACCTTCTTCTCCAAAC-3′ (SKD1-R) to insert a SacI site after the stop codon. The coding region of GFP was amplified by PCR from the template pBin m-gfp5-ER (CITATION) with the forward primer 5′-GAAAGTCGACATGAGTAAAGGAGAAG-3′ to introduce a SalI site before the start codon and the reverse primer 5′-CGAGCTCTCTAGATTTGTATAGTTCATCCAT-3′ to replace the HDEL ER retention signal and stop codon with an XbaI site. The SKD1 and GFP5 PCR-amplified fragments were cloned in frame in pBSII KS+ (Stratagene) and subsequently subcloned into pMZ215S (CITATION) using the SalI and SacI sites to obtain a expression cassette consisting of the CaMV35S promoter, the tobacco mosaic virus translational enhancer, the sequence encoding for the fusion GFP-SKD1, and the polyadenylation signal of nopaline synthase. The entire expression cassette was subcloned in the binary vector pCambia 1300 (Cambia) using the BamHI and EcoRI restriction sites. The E232Q mutation in Arabidopsis SKD1 was introduced using PCR techniques. First, two SKD1 fragments harboring the E232Q mutation were generated using the SKD1-F primer plus the reverse primer 5′-GTACCACACAAAGAATCTATCTGATCAACAAAAATAATCGAGGGAGCACTTTCACGGGCCATC-3′ (SKD1-R-EQ) and the SKD1-R primer plus the forward primer 5′-CCTCGATTATTTTTGTTGATCAGATAGATTCTTTGTGTGGTACACGTGGAGAAGGAAACGAGA-3′(SKD1-F-EQ). In a second PCR reaction, the two SKD1 fragments previously generated were used as template with the SKD1-F and SKD1-R primers to generate full-length SKD1E232Q. To generate the ethanol-inducible system, we used the pbinSRNACatN binary vector (CITATION) and subcloned SKD1 and SKD1E232Q after the AlcA promoter. The plasmids for the transient expression of ARA6/RabF1 and ARA7/RabF2b tagged with mRFP (provided by Roger Y. Tsien, University of California, San Diego) were constructed as previously described (CITATION). Open reading frames (ORFs) of ARA6/RabF1 and ARA7/RabF2b were fused to the ORF of mRFP in the direction of 5′-ARA6/RabF1-mRFP-3′ and 5′-mRFP-ARA7/RabF2b-3′, respectively, and subcloned into the pHTS13, a derivative of pBSII KS+, which contains the CaMV35S promoter and the Nos terminator. The expression cassettes for 35S:ARA6/RabF1-mRFP and 35S:mRFP-ARA7/RabF2b were subcloned into pCambia1300 using the EcoRI and SalI restriction sites. The RHA1/RabF2a ORF was amplified using the forward primer 5′-CGGGATCCATGGCTACGTCTGGAAACAAGA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GCTCTAGACTAAGCACAACA CGATGAACTC-3′ and inserted into pCambia 1300 with EYFP at the N terminus under the control of the CaMV35S promoter (CITATION). The sequences of all constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium by electroporation. Maximum parsimony analyses were performed in PAUP*4.0b10 (CITATION). Maximum parsimony heuristic searches used 100 random taxon addition replicates (holding one tree at each step) and tree-bisection-reconnection branch swapping. All characters were equally weighted, and gaps were treated as missing data. To estimate clade support, we conducted parsimony bootstrap analysis using 10,000 bootstrap replicates with simple taxon addition (holding one tree at each step) and tree-bisection-reconnection branch swapping. For analyzing colocalization between GFP-SKD1 and FM4-64, 1-week-old Arabidopsis transgenic seedlings were placed in 2 μM FM4-64 (Invitrogen) in double distilled water for 5 min in ice. The seedlings were rinsed in fresh double distilled water and immediately imaged in a Zeiss 510 laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a Meta detector (Zeiss). GFP was excited at 488 nm of an argon laser, and the emission was collected between 500 and 530 nm. FM4-64 was excited at 488 nm of an argon laser, and the emission was collected between 565 and 615 nm. For imaging the lines expressing GFP-SKD1 and EYFP-RHA1/RabF2a, GFP was excited with a 458-nm wavelength of an argon line, and the emission collected using a 500- to 530-nm band-pass filter, whereas EYFP was excited at 514-nm wavelength, and the emission was collected using a 535- to 590-nm band-pass filter in a multitrack configuration. For analyzing colocalization between GFP-SKD1 and the mRFP-Rab5 proteins, 1-week-old seedlings expressing both transgene constructs were used. GFP was excited at 488 nm, and the emission was collected between 500 and 530 nm. mRFP was excited at 543 nm, and the emission collected between 565 and 615 nm. Colocalization analysis was performed using ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Images were edited using software provided by Zeiss for the 510 Meta and assembled for figures in Adobe Photoshop. Peptide antibodies against three peptides of Arabidopsis SKD1 (IEYVKQAVHEDNAGNYNKAFP, ATRPKTKPKDGEGGGKDGE, and KTQDAMFFFKSPDGT) were raised in rabbits. The three peptides were injected in the same set of rabbits, so the resulting serum contained a mixture of the three peptide antibodies. Anti-RabF1 antibody was raised in a rabbit using a GST-ARA6/RabF1 fusion protein as antigen as previously described (CITATION). For the production of anti-ARA7/RabF2b antibodies, the full-length ORF was amplified by PCR to generate BamHI sites at both ends and subcloned into pGEX-2T (GE Healthcare). This plasmid was introduced into Escherichia coli, and expression of recombinant protein, ARA7/RabF2b-GST, was induced by isopropylthio-β-galactoside. Recombinant ARA7/RabF2b-GST was purified from cell lysates by affinity chromatography on a glutathione-sepharose 4B column (GE Healthcare) and used to raise polyclonal antibodies in two rabbits. The antibodies obtained were purified by protein G affinity column chromatography (GE Healthcare). The cross-reactivity of these antibodies was tested for protein extracts from yeast cells expressing ARA6/RabF1, RHA1/RabF2a, and ARA7/RabF2b under the control of constitutive TDH3 promoter in pTU1, which is a derivative of pRS316 (CITATION) containing the CMK1 terminator and the URA3 marker. Yeast lysates (10 μg protein per lane) were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by immunoblotting. The anti-ARA6/RabF1 antibody was used at the dilution of ×200, and anti-RabF2b antibodies were used at ×1000 for immunoreaction. For the production of the anti-RHA1/RabF2a antibodies, the RHA1/RabF2a ORF was PCR amplified and cloned into a pGEX vector for expression as GST fusion proteins. GST-RHA1/RabF2a was expressed in E. coli BL21 cells. The fusion protein was purified with glutathione-sepharose beads and used for experiments. During purification, RHA1/RabF2a was proteolytically cleaved from GST and eluted from the glutathione-sepharose beads. This cleaved RHA1/RabF2a protein was then used for antiserum production in rabbits. Prior to use, antibodies were affinity purified with recombinant RHA1/RabF2a fusion protein using standard antibody purification techniques (CITATION). Commercial antibodies against GST (Sigma-Aldrich), 6xHis (Sigma-Aldrich), and GFP (Clontech) were used. The anti-ACA2 antibodies were provided by Jeffrey F. Harper (University of Nevada, Reno) (CITATION). Arabidopsis embryos and root tips and tobacco BY2 cells were high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted for electron microscopy analysis as described previously (CITATION). For immunolabeling, some high-pressure frozen samples were substituted in 0.2% uranyl acetate (Electron Microscopy Sciences) plus 0.2% glutaraldehyde (Electron Microscopy Sciences) in acetone at −80°C for 72 h and warmed to −50°C for 24 h. After several acetone rinses, these samples were infiltrated with Lowicryl HM20 (Electron Microscopy Sciences) during 72 h and polymerized at −50°C under UV light for 48 h. Sections were mounted on formvar-coated nickel grids and blocked for 20 min with a 5% (w/v) solution of nonfat milk in PBS containing 0.1% Tween 20. The sections were incubated in the primary antibodies (1:10 in PBS-Tween 20) for 1 h, rinsed in PBS containing 0.5% Tween 20, and then transferred to the secondary antibody (anti-rabbit IgG 1:10) conjugated to 15-nm gold particles for 1 h. Controls omitted either the primary antibodies or used the preimmune serum. For double labeling experiments, plastic sections were first blocked with 5% (w/v) milk, incubated with the first primary antibody, followed by incubation in the goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to either 15- or 5-nm gold particles, as explained above. Following a fixation step (5% glutaraldehyde, 30 min) and a second blocking step with 5% milk, the grids were incubated with either no antisera or specific antisera for 1 h, followed by 1 h of incubation with anti-rabbit IgG linked directly to either 5- or 15-nm colloidal gold particles. Total protein extracts were obtained by grinding tissues in protein extraction buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA, and 2 μM β-mercaptoethanol) with protease inhibitors (Roche). The extracts were spun for 10 min at 4°C and the supernatant was loaded on SDS-PAGE gel with loading buffer. SDS-PAGE gel electrophoresis and blotting were done according to manufacturer's manual. The immune detection signals were visualized with the ECL Plus system (GE Healthcare). The LIP5 ORF was PCR amplified using the forward primer 5′-AAAGAATTCATGTCGAACCCAAACG-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-AAAGTCGACTCAGTGACCGGCACC-3′ from LIP5 cDNA obtained from the ABRC (clone U13054) and cloned into pET for expression of 6xHIS-LIP5 using the EcoRI and SalI sites added by the primers. The SKD1 and SKD1E232 coding regions were PCR amplified using the forward primer 5′-AAAGGATCCATGTACAGCAATTTCAAGGAAC-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-AAAGAATTCTCAACCTTCTTCTCCAAACTC-3′ from the plasmids previously generated for the expression of GFP-tagged proteins. The resulting products were cloned into the pET and pGEX plasmids at the BamHI and EcoRI sites to express 6xHis- and GST-tagged proteins, respectively. The resulting vectors were transformed into E. coli BL21 cells via electroporation and sequenced to confirm the expected sequence. GST fusion proteins were purified as explained above for the recombinant Rab GTPases with glutathione-sepharose beads. 6xHis-tagged proteins were purified using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose beads (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For the interaction assay, 10 μL of each crude protein extract was added to 430 μL B/R buffer (20 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl, 2 mM ATP, 2 mM CaCl2, 2mM MgCl2, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, and 5% glycerol) containing 50 μL of a 50% glutathione-sepharose bead slurry. The assay was incubated for 30 min at 4°C. The glutathione-sepharose beads were then rinsed three times with 0.5 mL B/R buffer and resuspended in SDS-PAGE loading buffer for analysis. ATPase activity was measured by a modified malachite green-based colorimetric method (CITATION; CITATION). Recombinant 6xHis-SKD1, 6xHis-SKD1E232Q, and 6xHIS-LIP5 were used for the assay. Protein concentration was determined with a Bradford assay kit (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's instructions. ATPase reactions with 4 μg of each protein in a total volume of 20 μL were performed at 21°C in 20 mM HEPES buffer, pH 7.4, containing 150 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 5% glycerol, and 2 mM β-mercaptoethanol. Reactions were initiated by the addition of 1 mM ATP and stopped 20 min later by the addition of the malachite green reagent. A calibration curve was calculated using dilutions of K2HPO4 as a standard. One-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on MS-agar plates were placed in 1.5 mL of 0.25× MS liquid media and allowed to equilibrate for 1 h. Seedlings were then transferred to 0.25× MS containing 30 μM wortmannin (Sigma-Aldrich), prepared from a 30 mM wortmannin stock in DMSO. Control seedlings were placed in a 0.25× MS solution containing 0.1% DMSO with no wortmannin. After 20 min, seedlings were transferred to fresh 0.25× MS and immediately processed by high-pressure freezing. The yeast two-hybrid screen (CITATION) was performed at the Molecular Interaction Facility (University of Wisconsin) using yeast strains developed by Philip James (CITATION). Libraries were in pACT and pACT2 (CITATION) or pGAD-T7Rec (BD Biosciences) prey vectors. Amino acids 1 to 435 of the Arabidopsis SKD1 (At2g27600) protein were cloned in frame with the GAL4 DNA binding domain of bait vector pBUTE (a kanamycin-resistant version of GAL4 bait vector pGBDUC1). The resulting bait vector was sequenced to confirm an in-frame fusion, then transformed into mating type A of strain PJ694 and tested for autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene. The yeast two-hybrid screen was conducted using a cDNA library from etiolated Arabidopsis (Col) seedlings. Approximately 18 million clones were screened via mating. Of these, 11 yeast wells tested positive (via selection on histidine dropout plus 1 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole and β-galactosidase assay) for interaction. Plasmids were rescued and analyzed via restriction digest. These isolated prey plasmids were retransformed into the alpha mating type of PJ694 and validated in a mating and selection assay with the Arabidopsis SKD1 bait, the empty bait vector, and unrelated baits. Seven clones were positive (grew in interaction selection media and β-galactosidase positive) in the validation test and subsequently were identified via sequencing. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are At2g27600 (SKD1), At4g26750 (LIP5), At3g54840 (ARA6/RabF1), At5g45130 (RHA1/RabF2a), and At4g19640 (ARA7/RabF2b). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Protein Gel Blot Analysis of Total Protein Extracts from Wild-Type and GFP-SKD1 Transgenic Lines of Tobacco BY2 Cells and Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 2. Immunolocalization of GFP on MVBs of Control Root Cells Expressing GFP-SKD1 and GFP-SKD1E232Q.
