!~ABS~! Plants can sense neighbour competitors through light-quality signals and respond with shade-avoidance responses. These include increased shoot elongation, which enhances light capture and thus competitive power. Such plant–plant interactions therefore profoundly affect plant development in crowded populations. Shade-avoidance responses are tightly coordinated by interactions between light signals and hormones, with essential roles for the phytochrome B photoreceptor [sensing the red:far red (R:FR) ratio] and the hormone gibberellin (GA). The family of growth-suppressing DELLA proteins are targets for GA signalling and are proposed to integrate signals from other hormones. However, the importance of these regulators has not been studied in the ecologically relevant, complex realm of plant canopies. Here we show that DELLA abundance is regulated during growth responses to neighbours in dense Arabidopsis stands. This occurs in a R:FR-dependent manner in petioles, depends on GA, and matches the induction kinetics of petiole elongation. Similar interactions were observed in the growth response of seedling hypocotyls and are general for a second canopy signal, reduced blue light. Enhanced DELLA stability in the gai mutant inhibits shade-avoidance responses, indicating that DELLA proteins constrain shade-avoidance. However, using multiple DELLA knockout mutants, we show that the observed DELLA breakdown is not sufficient to induce shade-avoidance in petioles, but plays a more central role in hypocotyls. These data provide novel information on the regulation of shade-avoidance under ecologically important conditions, defining the importance of DELLA proteins and GA and unravelling the existence of GA- and DELLA-independent mechanisms.
!~RES~! Growth responses to neighbours were studied in dense Arabidopsis canopies (10 000 plants per m2). After approximately 18 days of canopy development, enhanced petiole elongation was visible in crowded plants (Figure 1a), which was accompanied by upward movement of leaves (Figure 1c). This confirms that Arabidopsis shows essential shade-avoidance traits when competing for light with con-specific neighbours (Figure 1e). Shade-avoidance responses are triggered by a reduced R:FR ratio, but also by reduced blue-light levels (CITATION; CITATION), and both signals were present in the Arabidopsis canopies (Figure 1b). Confocal imaging of canopy-grown pRGA:GFP–RGA plants showed that the abundance of the DELLA protein RGA decreased in parallel with increased petiole elongation (Figure 1d), which probably indicates enhanced GA action. To more precisely identify the mechanism underpinning these responses at the whole-plant level in canopies, we investigated the regulation of elongation responses of isolated plants to both low-R:FR and low-blue-light signals [[FIGURE]] Pronounced petiole elongation responses occurred in the wild-type, Ler, during 24 h low-R:FR treatments (Figure 2a). However, no growth stimulation was observed upon low-blue-light treatment for 24 h (data not shown). The response to low R:FR was diminished by GA deficiency in Ler plants treated with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol and in the GA-deficient ga1-3 mutant (Figure 2a). Subsequent GA addition restored the response to low R:FR and control growth rates, whereas GA addition to normal wild-type Ler plants did not affect petiole elongation (Figure 2a). This suggests saturation by endogenous GA under control light conditions, and thus that enhanced GA biosynthesis only would not be sufficient to induce shade-avoidance. GA presence and function are thus essential for low-R:FR-induced petiole elongation in Arabidopsis. In agreement with this, phytochrome-mediated shade-avoidance is reduced in the gai mutant, which has reduced GA sensitivity due to enhanced stability of the DELLA protein gai (Figure 2b) (CITATION). Although this mutant displays constitutive suppression of petiole elongation under both light conditions, its response to low R:FR is reduced to approximately half of that in Ler (55% growth stimulation in Ler versus 29% stimulation in gai). This was also confirmed by a dedicated two-way ANOVA on these two genotypes which identified a significant (P = 0.03) genotype by environment interaction. The fact that the R:FR response was not totally absent in this gai mutant probably indicates the action of other DELLA proteins, such as RGA. Thus, enhanced DELLA stability inhibits low-R:FR-induced petiole elongation. [[FIGURE]] Next, we studied whether (i) DELLA breakdown is a major regulatory step in the signalling cascade that directly induces the processes that induce shade-avoidance, or (ii) DELLA proteins are a constraint on shade-avoidance that must be degraded, but without this breakdown itself further inducing the shade-avoidance response. To study the roles of individual DELLA proteins, knockouts of four DELLA proteins (gait6, rga24, rgl1-1, rgl2-1) were investigated. Hypothesis 1 predicts constitutively high elongation in the knockouts with little or no response to canopy signals, whereas, in hypothesis 2, DELLA knockouts are not necessarily elongated and can still normally respond to the canopy signals. Figure 2(b) shows that these single and multiple DELLA knockouts do not show constitutively elongated petioles, indicating that low DELLA abundance alone does not lead to shade-avoidance. Furthermore, these DELLA knockouts show normal petiole elongation responses to low R:FR (Figure 2b). DELLA knockouts thus have very mild phenotypes under conditions with normal GA content (Figure 2b) (CITATION). As DELLA proteins are highly abundant under GA-deficient conditions, where they are not targeted by GA for breakdown, GA-deficient plants show strong suppression of growth and shade-avoidance (i.e. paclobutrazol treatment and ga1-3 mutant, Figure 2a). Interestingly, we show here that DELLA knockouts can rescue the far-red response in GA-deficient plants (Figure 2c), as the full low-R:FR response occurred in the GA-deficient ga1-3 gait6 rga24 triple mutant. This indicates that GAI and RGA are the major DELLA proteins that inhibit low-R:FR-induced petiole elongation when present at sufficiently high levels. Accordingly, the rgl1-1 and rgl2-1 knockouts could not restore the response in ga1-3 plants, and the paclobutrazol-treated quadruple gait6 rga24 rgl1 rgl2 knockout mutant behaved similarly to gait6 rga24 (Figure 2c). These DELLA interactions are GA-specific as illustrated by the fact that RGA abundance is much reduced upon low-R:FR treatment and this reduction in abundance is prevented by GA deficiency (paclobutrazol treatment) and restored by adding back GA (Figure 2d). In conclusion, DELLA proteins are broken down in a GA-dependent manner under low R:FR (as indicated by regulation of the RGA–GFP signal), and this is important for shade-avoidance (indicated by the reduced response in gai). However, DELLA breakdown alone is certainly not sufficient for enhanced elongation growth of petioles, as DELLA knockouts do not have constitutively shade-avoiding petioles. This is strongly supported by the dramatic response to low R:FR in petioles of the multiple DELLA knockouts under GA-deficient conditions (Figure 2d). We studied the kinetics of low-R:FR-induced petiole elongation and RGA abundance to determine whether the timing of DELLA breakdown matches the elongation response. Petiole elongation rates increased approximately 2 h after the start of low-R:FR treatment, reached a maximum after 3 h, and remained approximately constant until at least 6 h (Figure 3a). In accordance with this, the RGA protein disappeared after 2 h and remained undetectable during this same growth phase (Figure 3b). These data confirm that the kinetics of enhanced petiole elongation and RGA breakdown are similar, supporting the notion that DELLA proteins are negative regulators of shade-avoidance and thus are broken down to allow enhanced petiole elongation to occur. [[FIGURE]] Not only fully grown plants but also very young seedlings can be exposed to neighbour detection signals. We therefore tested hypocotyl responses to low R:FR to investigate whether DELLA involvement in shade-avoidance is general throughout plant development. The elongation response to low R:FR was absent in GA-deficient seedlings, but could be rescued by adding back GA (Figure 4a). Low-R:FR-induced hypocotyl elongation was absent in the GA-insensitive gai mutant (Figure 4b), which had wild-type hypocotyl lengths under control light conditions. Enhanced DELLA stability thus did not affect hypocotyl length under control light conditions but did prevent low-R:FR-induced hypocotyl elongation, indicating that the reduced length of gai under low R:FR does not result from reduced general growth, but rather from a reduced response to low R:FR. Accordingly, low R:FR led to disappearance of the RGA–GFP signal, which was prevented by paclobutrazol treatment and could be restored by adding back GA (Figure 4d). Losing both DELLA proteins RGA and GAI restored control hypocotyl elongation in GA-deficient seedlings to wild-type levels under control light conditions, as described previously (CITATION). The hypocotyl response to low R:FR, however, was only partly restored by multiple DELLA knockouts in a GA-deficient background (Figure 4c). In contrast to petioles, hypocotyls of the quadruple DELLA knockout were constitutively elongated, accounting for approximately half of the low-R:FR-induced hypocotyl elongation response (Figure 4b). DELLA proteins may thus not only constrain low-R:FR-induced hypocotyl elongation, but, unlike petioles, DELLA absence in hypocotyls may even induce part of the shade-avoidance response. However, this cannot account for the full response to low R:FR. [[FIGURE]] As reduced blue-light photon fluence rates are another neighbour detection signal in canopies, we tested whether the R:FR data can be reproduced for blue light. The response of hypocotyl elongation to low blue light was much stronger than the response to low R:FR but was similarly GA-dependent, as GA deficiency almost completely abolished the response (Figure 5a). As for low R:FR, low-blue-light-induced elongation could be rescued in GA-deficient plants by adding back GA (Figure 5a). Enhanced DELLA stability in the gai mutant did not affect control growth, but did strongly suppress the hypocotyl elongation response to low blue light (Figure 5b). This is very similar to the low-R:FR-induced elongation response. DELLA knockouts could rescue low-blue-light-induced shade-avoidance in GA-deficient seedlings (Figure 5c). This confirms that the involvement of GA in shade-avoidance is through its regulation of DELLA proteins. In accordance with this, the low-blue-light-induced disappearance of the RGA–GFP signal was prevented by inhibition of GA biosynthesis with paclobutrazol (Figure 5d). The elongated hypocotyls of quadruple DELLA knockouts under control light conditions (Figure 5b) suggests that DELLA reduction in hypocotyls may induce downstream processes leading to shade-avoidance. However, as for low R:FR, this cannot account for the entire low-blue-light-induced hypocotyl elongation response, indicating that other processes must also be operating to induce the strong elongation response to low blue light. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All mutant and transgenic lines used in this study are in the Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Landsberg erecta (Ler) background. GA involvement in shade-avoidance was investigated using the GA-deficient ga1-3 (CITATION) and GA-insensitive gai (CITATION) mutants. The roles of four of the five Arabidopsis DELLA proteins were studied using the gait6 (CITATION), rga24 (CITATION), rgl1-1 (CITATION) and rgl2-1 (CITATION) single mutants, and the rga24 gait6 (CITATION) double and rga24 gait6 rgl1-1 rgl2-1 (CITATION) quadruple knockout lines in the Ler background. These DELLA knockouts were also studied in the GA-deficient (ga1-3 background) mutants rga24 ga1-3 (CITATION), gait6 ga1-3, gait6 rga24 ga1-3 (CITATION), rgl1 ga1-3 and rgl2 ga1-3 (CITATION). Abundance of the DELLA protein RGA was studied in transgenic plants (pRGA:GFP–RGA) expressing the GFP–RGA fusion protein. Seeds were generously donated by Dr N.P. Harberd, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK (gai, gait6, rga24, gait6 rga24, rga24 gait6 rgl1-1 rgl2-1 and pRGA:GFP–RGA), Dr J. Peng, Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, Singapore (rgl1-1, rgl2-1, rgl1-1 ga1-3 and rgl2-1 ga1-3) and Dr T.P. Sun, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA (gait6 ga1-3, rga24 ga1-3, gait6 rga24 ga1-3). For petiole elongation studies, seeds were sown on filter paper soaked with water or a 100 μm solution of GA3 (GA-deficient lines), stratified for 4 days at 4°C, and then germinated for 4 days in a growth chamber under standard growth conditions of 20°C, 9 h light (200 μmol m−2 sec−1 photosynthetically active radiation, Philips Master HPI 400 W)/15 h dark (http://www.lighting.philips.com). Seedlings were then transferred to pots [70 ml with one individual for light and GA treatments, and 280 ml with 49 individuals (7 × 7 plants in a square pattern, 1 cm distance between plants) for canopy studies], with a 1:2 potting soil/perlite substrate mixture and additional nutrients (CITATION). Plants were used for light and GA experiments 35 days after sowing. The resulting densities were 250 plants per m2 for individually potted plants and 10 000 plants per m2 for canopy-grown plants. For hypocotyl experiments, surface-sterilized seeds were sown on agar (5.5 g l−1) with low nutrients (0.22 g l−1 MS), stratified, and then transferred to a growth chamber. After 3 days, seedlings were transferred to the various light-quality compartments. Canopy studies were performed under standard growth conditions, and the central nine plants from each canopy were measured (the other plants minimized edge effects). Light quality was measured using a Licor 1800 spectroradiometer (Licor; http://www.licor.com) with a remote cosine receptor attached. The receptor was held horizontally at approximately 1 cm above the soil in the canopies to record the quality of light reflected from neighbouring plants. GA biosynthesis was inhibited by adding 20 ml of 50 μm paclobutrazol solution to the pots 7 days prior to the light treatments, or by adding paclobutrazol (1 μm final concentration) to the agar plates. Paclobutrazol gave typical GA deficiency symptoms, such as dwarfing and dark-green leaves. This could be rescued by GA treatments, which took place by daily spraying with 50 μm GA3 solution (controls were sprayed with water) or by adding GA3 to the plates (10 μm final GA concentration). Light-quality manipulations took place in a white light background (Philips Master HPI-T Plus 400 W and Philips Plusline Pro 150 W). The R:FR ratio was reduced from 1.2 to 0.25 by supplemental far-red light (730 nm LED; Shinkoh Electronics Co. Ltd; http://www.shinkohelecs.com). Blue-light photon fluence rates (400-500 nm) were reduced from 26 to < 1 μmol m−2 sec−1 using two layers of Lee 010 medium yellow filter (Lee Filters; http://www.leefilters.com). Photosynthetically active radiation for all light treatments was maintained at 140 μmol m−2 sec−1. One day before the experiment, plants were transferred to the relevant growth cabinet for acclimatization. Light treatments started on the subsequent day at 10 am and lasted 24 h. Petiole lengths were measured using a digital caliper at t = 0 and 24 h to calculate growth as the length increment over 24 h. Petiole elongation rates were also determined by linear displacement transducers to determine petiole elongation kinetics under normal and low-R:FR conditions (CITATION). For hypocotyl studies, seedlings were transferred to the light treatments 7 days after sowing. Hypocotyl lengths were measured after 5 days of light treatment using a custom-built image analysis system [Sony CCD camera (http://www.sony.com) (type XC-77CE) combined with KS400 software (Carl Zeiss Vision; http://www.zeiss.com/)]. Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), with Tukey B post hoc comparisons (SPSS version 12.0.1; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA), revealed whether there were significant differences between genotypes and treatments. Experiments were independently repeated at least three times. The abundance of the DELLA protein RGA was studied using the pRGA:GFP–RGA reporter line (Achard et al., 2003, 2006; CITATION). Fluorescence was detected using an inverted confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM Pascal, 40× C-apochromat objective). The excitation wavelength was 488 nm, a 505–530 nm bandpath filter was used for GFP emission, and a 560 nm long-pass filter was used to visualize red fluorescence by chloroplasts. Images depict 149.5 μm Z-stacks of petioles and hypocotyls. The GFP–RGA fluorescence of petioles and hypocotyls was determined at the same time points as the length measurements. The basal, middle and uppermost regions of hypocotyls and petioles were studied, but only images from the basal region (abaxial in petioles with the mid-rib horizontally approximately halfway up the image) are shown as this is where most of the cell elongation occurs (CITATION; CITATION). Confocal images are representative selections from at least nine replicates of at least three independent experiments. It was recently shown by Western blotting with an anti-GFP antibody that the RGA–GFP signal visualized through confocal imaging gives a reliable estimation of the abundance of this fusion protein (CITATION).
