!~ABS~! Myosin XI are actin-based molecular motors that are thought to drive organelle movements in plants, analogous to myosin V in animals and fungi. Similar domain structure of these myosins suggests that binding to organelles may occur via the globular tail domain in both types of motors, even though sequence similarity is low. To address this hypothesis, we developed a structure homology model for the globular tail of MYA1, a myosin XI from Arabidopsis, based on the known structure of yeast myosin V (Myo2p) globular tail. This model suggested an interaction between two subdomains of the globular tail which was verified by yeast two-hybrid assay and by in vivo bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). Interface mapping demonstrated that this subdomain interaction depends critically on the C terminus of helix H6 as well as three specific residues in helices H3 and H15, consistent with the structural prediction. The reconstituted globular tails of several Arabidopsis myosin XIs in BiFC assays targeted to peroxisomes in plant cells, identifying this domain as sufficient for cargo binding. Unlike myosin V, either subdomain of myosin XI alone was targeting-competent and responsible for association with different organelles. In addition, our data suggest that organelle binding is regulated by an allosteric interaction between two tail subdomains. We conclude that the globular tail of myosin XI shares a similar structure with that of myosin V, but has evolved plant-specific cargo binding mechanisms. 
!~RES~! The Structure of MYA1 Globular Tail Resembles That of Myo2p—The first high resolution structure of a myosin V tail was recently determined for Myo2p, an essential myosin V isoform in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (31). Because MYA1 and Myo2p share identical domain organization (6), we reasoned that these two classes of myosins might fold similarly. However, the sequence similarity of the globular tails of MYA1 and Myo2p is quite low, and various alignment algorithms recognized only short segments of homology, largely confined to the dilute domain (data not shown). Manual re-alignment based on predicted secondary structures elevated the sequence identity to 15% (36% similarity) and, more importantly, revealed conserved residues throughout the entire tail except the very C-terminal region (Fig. 1A). Notably, 78% of the conserved residues are buried inside in Myo2p structure (Fig. 1B), suggesting that purifying selection was directed at maintaining the folding pattern of the globular tail domain in these myosin classes.  Based on this optimized alignment, we used the Swiss-Model server to predict the likely structure of MYA1 globular tail. The resulting model appeared to be stereochemically robust as judged by Ramachandran plot (supplemental Fig. S1A) (36). The root mean square (RMS) deviation of the predicted structure relative to the template was small (1.91 Å), and larger deviations were all confined to loop regions (supplemental Fig. S1B). The predicted general architecture of MYA1 globular tail is very close to that of Myo2p (Fig. 1C and supplemental data), although the MYA1 globular tail model is composed of 18 α-helices compared with 15 α-helices for Myo2p. The predicted extra three helices (H5a, H5b, and H6a) in MYA1 are caused by two long insertions (residues 1194–1224 and residues 1298–1304) relative to the Myo2p sequence. On the other hand, two insertions in Myo2p (residues 1179–1193 and residues 1507–1519) are absent from MYA1 so that MYA1 is predicted to have shorter loops between helices H2 and H3 and between helices H13 and H14. It is important to emphasize that these novel features of MYA1 globular tail are purely predicted and that their actual structure needs to be verified independently. In this study, we provide experimental support for the overall conformation of the calculated MYA1 globular tail structure.  Myosin XI Tail Subdomains Interact with Each Other in Yeast Cells—It has been reported that the globular tail of Myo2p could be divided into two distinct subdomains, which tightly associate with each other (37, 38). The predicted structural similarity suggests that these subdomains, GT1 (helices H1 to H6) and GT2 (helices H6a to H15), also exist in myosin XI and associate similarly. Indeed, the interaction between GT1 and GT2 of MYA1 could be detected in a Y2H system (Fig. 2A). Similar interactions between the corresponding GT1 and GT2 subdomains from other myosin XI isoforms, i.e. MYA2, XI-C, and XI-K, could also be observed (Fig. 2A). Interestingly, heterologous interactions between GT1 from MYA1 and GT2 from MYA2, XI-C, or XI-K were also detected in Y2H assay (Fig. 2B). No interaction between GT2 and an intact tail or between two intact tails (Fig. 2B) was found in Y2H assays, which is consistent with a previous report for Myo2p (39). Taken together, our data imply that the myosin XI globular tail subdomains can associate with each other in a conserved manner as predicted, and that the interaction between two tail subdomains occurs only within an individual myosin polypeptide.  Two Regions in MYA1 Tail Subdomains Are Indispensable for the Intra-tail Interaction—To further verify the structure prediction in detail, we created targeted mutations to test specific elements in the MYA1 globular tail model. According to the structure model, the C-terminal end of helix H6 from GT1 inserts into a pocket formed by a bundle of GT2 helices (H6a to H9 and possibly H10), and this interaction may play a pivotal role in the association of the two subdomains. This prediction was tested with two truncations at the C terminus of GT1. The first removed the last twelve amino acids of helix H6 after M1263 (GT1Δ38C) while the second was truncated right after helix H6 (GT1Δ22C). Both constructs were tested by Y2H assay for interaction with GT2. As expected, keeping H6 intact in GT1 retained the interaction between GT1 and GT2 while the loss of residues 1264–1276 blocked the interaction (Fig. 3A), indicating that the C-terminal end of helix 6 is required for the association of GT1 and GT2.  We speculated that the long C-terminal extension of GT2 after helix H13, which loops back and wraps around GT1, would also be necessary to maintain the interaction between GT1 and GT2. A deletion series (GT2Δ53C-GT2Δ3C), which respectively lacked 53, 35, 11, 7, or 3 amino acids from the wild-type GT2 C terminus was created and tested for the interaction with GT1 by Y2H. Intriguingly, all truncations except for the shortest one (GT2Δ3C) prevent interaction with GT1 (Fig. 3A), suggestive of a crucial role for the tetrapeptide FLLE1517. According to the predicted structure, this tetrapeptide from helix H15 may interact with its neighboring helices H1 and H3 (Fig. 3B). Removal of helices H1, H2, and H3 (GT1Δ39N) from GT1 disrupted the interaction with GT2 whereas the truncation of helix H1 alone (GT1Δ5N) did not impair the interaction with GT2 (Fig. 3A). We concluded that helix H3 is the probable interacting partner of the tetrapeptide FLLE1517 in helix H15. Based on the structural model, Tyr1130 and Arg1137 from helix H3, and Phe1514 and Glu1517 from helix H15 could participate in the interface within this region (Fig. 3B). To test this prediction, we introduced point mutations to replace Tyr1130, Arg1137, or Phe1514, respectively, with alanine. These point mutations could be expressed normally in yeast cells as shown by protein gel blot analysis (supplemental Fig. S2). Only the F1514A mutation resulted in a loss of interaction, indicative of a key role of Phe1514 in the association of GT1 and GT2 (Fig. 3C). In contrast, the removal of E1517 from GT2Δ3C still permitted the interaction to occur (Fig. 3C). Furthermore, double mutation of Y1130A and R1137A on helix H3 also disrupted the interaction, indicating that Tyr1130, Arg1137, and Phe1514 form an interacting triad in this region. This was further supported by a negative interaction in a triple mutation of Y1130A, R1137A, and F1514A (Fig. 3C), as well as the conservation of these three residues in all Arabidopsis myosin XI isoforms (supplemental Fig. S3).  Interaction of Globular Tail Subdomains Also Occurs in Plant Cells—To confirm our results from yeast two-hybrid assays we checked for subdomain interactions in the cytoplasm of plant cells by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). The BiFC approach relies on the reconstitution of a fluorophore when two halves of the fluorescent protein (YN and YC) are brought together by an interaction between their fusion partners (40). Reconstituted YFP fluorescence was visualized in a punctate pattern for YN- and YC-tagged MYA1 globular tail subdomains in Arabidopsis leaf cells, irrespective of the fusion orientation. Both the GT1-YC + YN-GT2 combination (Fig. 4A) and the YN-GT1 + GT2-YC combination (Fig. 4B) resulted in clear YFP signals. However, no YFP fluorescence was observed for the YN-GT2 + GT2-YC combination within 100 cells expressing a transformation indicator, ruling out the possibility of a spontaneous interaction between YN and YC (Fig. 4D). Similarly, restored YFP fluorescence was also visualized in the BiFC assay for three other myosin XI isoforms, MYA2 (Fig. 4C), XI-I (Fig. 4E), and XI-K (Fig. 4F). These findings confirmed that the two tail subdomains of myosin XI interact with each other in living plant cells, thus corroborating the structure homology model of MYA1 globular tail. Importantly, the reconstituted YFP signal in the BiFC assays localized specifically to CFP-labeled peroxisomes for MYA1, MYA2, XI-I, and XI-K (Fig. 4). This result thus established that the reconstituted globular tail is functional and sufficient for organelle binding in plant cells.   [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]] Globular Tail Subdomains Can Target Different Organelles Independently—YFP-tagged GT1 or GT2 of MYA1 when expressed separately labeled punctate structures which coincided with the CFP peroxisome marker (Fig. 5, A and B). Peroxisome targeting was not affected by the point mutations (e.g. Y1130A/R1137A and F1514A) that disrupted subdomain interactions in Y2H assays, suggesting that these residues are only important for intramolecular interactions (supplemental Fig. S4). Curiously, the YFP-GT2 chimera of MYA1 targeted to Golgi stacks (Fig. 5C) instead of peroxisomes in about one-fifth of the cells. Independent targeting of tail subdomains could also be confirmed in MYA2 where GT1 targeted to unknown organelles which were neither peroxisomes (Fig. 5D), mitochondria, Golgi stacks nor prevacuolar compartments (data not shown), while GT2 bound to peroxisomes (Fig. 5E). Localization of MYA2 subdomains to small organelles or peroxisomes, respectively, is fully consistent with the distribution of immunodetected native protein (20) and YFP-labeled tail constructs (21). None of these constructs prevented movement of the targeted organelles (data not shown), which is similar to the lack of a dominant negative effect of other YFP-tail fusions described previously (21). Taken together, our results indicated that either subdomain alone could target to organelles, thus possessing independent cargo binding sites.  Myosin XI Globular Tail Requires Upstream Sequences for Proper Folding—We sought to confirm the specific targeting of myosin XI with full-length globular tail constructs (YFP-MYA1GT and YFP-MYA2GT), but only diffuse cytoplasmic labeling was detected (Fig. 6A and data not shown), resembling the distribution of YFP alone (Fig. 6B). This unexpected distribution could have resulted from incorrect folding of the globular tails. This interpretation was supported by a folding reporter (YN-MYA1GT-YC), which should mimic the situation of the YN-1GT1 + 1GT2-YC BiFC combination (Fig. 4B), but that did not result in any detectable YFP signal within 120 cells containing the transformation indicator (Fig. 6C). This result may indicate that the intact globular tail does not fold easily into the predicted conformation. Interestingly, a longer fusion construct that included the entire coiled-coil region in addition to the globular tail domain of MYA1 resulted in localization to organelles (Fig. 6D), some of which could be identified as Golgi stacks (data not shown). This result suggested that additional sequences outside the globular tail may be involved in its proper folding. 
!~MM~! Bioinformatic Analysis—The amino acid sequences of the globular tail of myosin XI (MYA1) and myosin V (Myo2p) were initially aligned by MUSCLE (32) and T-coffee (33) programs. Manual refinement was made by considering the known secondary structure of Myo2p globular tail and the secondary structure of MYA1 globular tail predicted by the Protein Homology Recognition Engine server. Based on this sequence alignment and the Myo2p structure template (PDB code 2F6H-X), a homology model of MYA1 globular tail was built by the Swiss-Model server (34). The resulting PDB file is available online as supplemental data. The residues buried inside the structure were identified as inaccessible residues by the Swiss-PDBViewer program using default settings. Structural models were drawn with MacPyMOL (DeLano Scientific).  Plasmid Construction—All PCR primers used and recombinant plasmids constructed in this study are listed in supplemental Tables S1 and S2, respectively, which are available online. Standard molecular cloning protocols were followed for plasmid construction. For yeast two-hybrid constructs, the bait plasmids were made by inserting different NcoI/SalI-digested bait PCR products into similarly cut pAS1 (GAL4 BD vector, Clontech), while the prey plasmids were generated by inserting individual XhoI-digested prey PCR products into the XhoI site of pACT (GAL4 AD vector, Clontech) except that BamHI was alternatively used for the pACT-XIKGT1 construction because of the presence of an interior XhoI site in XI-K GT1. Plant myosin cDNAs used as PCR templates were kindly provided by Dr. John Schiefelbein (University of Michigan) for MYA1 and MYA2 (6) or obtained from the EST collection at the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center for XI-C (clone no. 165B7T7), XI-I (clone no. APZL62d04R), XI-K (clone no. M65012STM). If necessary, site-directed mutagenesis was carried out using the megaprimer method (35). All GT1 constructs used in this study started at Q1099, and the resulting shortened helix H1 did not appear to affect folding of GT1 and interaction with GT2. For BiFC constructs, the coding sequence for N-terminal 154 residues (YN) and C-terminal 84 residues (YC) of YFP were fused to either GT1 or GT2 coding sequences of MYA1, MYA2, XI-I, and XI-K. The entire expression cassettes were then cloned into plasmid pAN59 containing a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter with dual enhancer elements (d35S). For fluorescence tagging constructs, YN or YC moieties in a given GT1 or GT2 construct were replaced by an intact YFP. A ten-residue linker GGHHHHHHGG was introduced between YFP (or YN, YC) and the myosin tail in BiFC or fluorescence tagging constructs to prevent potential interference in protein folding of the two parts. All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing.  Yeast Two-hybrid Assay—Yeast strain Y190 cells were cotransformed with the indicated GAL4 BD-bait construct (TRP1 marker) and the indicated GAL4 AD-prey construct (LEU2 marker) and grown on SD/-Trp/-Leu plates. Single colonies of each transformant were patched onto a SD/-Trp/-Leu/-His plate containing 25 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT, Sigma-Aldrich) which blocks leaky expression of the His3 reporter gene. The plate was then placed at 30 °C for 3 days, and β-galactosidase activities for each colony were analyzed by colony-lift filter assay.  Transient Expression in Plant Cells—Dark green leaves (about 1-cm long) were detached from 4–8-week-old Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants for tungsten particle-mediated bombardment using a PDS-1000 system (Bio-Rad). A construct encoding CFP with a C-terminal type 1 peroxisome targeting signal was co-bombarded with BiFC constructs as transformation indicator and peroxisome marker. Alternatively, a construct encoding CFP with an N-terminal Golgi-resident mannosidase transmembrane domain (13) was co-bombarded as transformation indicator and Golgi marker. After bombardment, the leaves were kept at 28 °C in a moist chamber in darkness for 12–16 h prior to microscopic examination.  Fluorescent Imaging—Fluorescence microscopy was performed using an Axiovert 200 m microscope (Zeiss) equipped with filters for YFP and CFP fluorescence (Chroma, filter set 52017). Transformed cells were first identified under a ×20 objective before representative cells were observed with a ×63 (1.4 NA) plan-apo oil immersion objective. Images were captured with a digital camera (Hamamatsu Orca-ER) controlled by Openlab software (Improvision). Photographs were subsequently processed for optimal presentation with Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe). 
