!~ABS~! The eer3-1 loss-of-function mutant, which was identified by screening for Arabidopsis mutant seedlings with an enhanced ethylene response, has both increased sensitivity and profound exaggeration of response to ethylene when visually assessed, yet exhibits partial ethylene insensitivity at the molecular level. The eer3-1 mutation represents a conditional allele with an ethylene-dependent phenotype that results from an amino acid substitution in the previously uncharacterized prohibitin, AtPHB3, with complete loss of EER3 function resulting in an extreme constitutive ethylene response in air. Prohibitins in other organisms have diverse roles including transcriptional regulation, with loss of prohibitin function in this capacity associated with tumour formation in mammals. Subcellular localization of AtPHB3 indicates that it is found in several cellular locations, including the nucleus and throughout the cytoplasm. Genetic analysis demonstrates that EER3 functions downstream of EIN2, since an ein2-5;eer3-2 double mutant has the same profound hypocotyl inhibition phenotype seen with the eer3-2 mutant. Based on the presented work, AtPHB3 probably functions as a positive regulator of expression of a subset of ethylene-regulated genes along with a group of genes required to maintain growth in the presence of ethylene.
!~RES~! In order to isolate Arabidopsis mutants with enhanced ethylene response (eer), ethylmethane sulphonate (EMS)-mutagenized M2 Col-0 seedlings were grown in the dark for 4 d in the presence of 100 μl l−1 ethylene, after which seedlings with extreme hypocotyl shortening compared with the Col-0 wild type were isolated as putative eer mutants. Following isolation, putative eer mutants that showed growth comparable with the wild type in the presence of either ethylene perception or biosynthesis inhibitors, yet extreme response to saturating ethylene, were selected for further analysis. For this report, the recessive mutant eer3-1 was chosen for characterization and subsequent map-based cloning of the respective mutation. Initially, eer3-1 was compared with Col-0 wild type with regard to its capacity for growth in the absence or presence of increasing concentrations of exogenous ethylene. For this analysis, eer3-1 and Col-0 wild-type seedlings were grown for 4 d in the dark in the presence of either 5 μM AgNO3, which is an ethylene perception inhibitor, or 5 μM AVG, which is an ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor, with the latter treatment supplemented with increasing concentrations of exogenous ethylene. From this analysis, it was found that in the absence of ethylene signalling, as represented by treatment with AgNO3, the eer3 mutant was capable of hypocotyl elongation similar to the wild type, with eer3-1 hypocotyls approximately 65% the height of Col-0 wild type (Fig. 1A). Addition of increasing concentrations of ethylene had a greater inhibitory effect on the elongation of eer3-1 hypocotyls compared with Col-0 wild type, with Col-0 wild type requiring upwards of 3-fold higher ethylene to achieve 50% inhibition of hypocotyl elongation compared with eer3-1 (Fig. 1B). Most striking was the profound difference in hypocotyl elongation when comparing Col-0 wild type with eer3-1 at saturating levels of exogenous ethylene, with eer3-1 hypocotyls being <20% the height of Col-0 wild type (Fig. 1C). It should be noted that neither of these phenotypic differences could be accounted for by eer3-1 overproducing ethylene since AVG was included in this dose–response analysis, effectively limiting endogenous ethylene, and the most severe phenotypic difference seen between eer3-1 and Col-0 wild type occurs in the presence of saturating ethylene. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm that eer3-1 is indeed ethylene hypersensitive, a dose–response analysis using the ethylene agonist propylene was performed. For this analysis, eer3-1 and Col-0 wild-type seedlings were grown for 4 d in the dark in the presence of either 5 μM AgNO3 or 5 μM AVG, the latter of which was supplemented with increasing concentrations of propylene. Following incubation, hypocotyl length was measured, which revealed that eer3-1 had similar growth characteristics when exposed to propylene in comparison with ethylene treatment (Fig. 1D). From this analysis, it was found that the lengths of eer3-1 hypocotyls were comparable with those of Col-0 wild type in the presence of AgNO3, with eer3-1 approximately 85% the height of Col-0 wild type. Treatment with propylene revealed that there was upwards of a 3-fold increase in the concentration of propylene required to cause 50% inhibition of hypocotyl elongation for Col-0 wild type compared with eer3-1 (Fig. 1E). Finally, there was a profound exaggeration of response for eer3-1 compared with Col-0 wild type to saturating concentrations of propylene (Fig. 1F), with eer3-1 seedlings <10% the height of Col-0 wild type. The eer3-1 mutant was also examined for additional phenotypic manifestations in other tissues. From this analysis, it was found that eer3-1 roots have a reduced capability to grow in an ethylene-independent manner (Fig. 2A). Dose–response analysis with increasing concentrations of ethylene did not reveal either increased sensitivity or exaggeration of response to ethylene, suggesting that the limited growth capacity found for eer3-1 roots is due either to a general growth defect or to a constitutive ethylene response. Additionally, eer3-1 mutants demonstrated a significant reduction in rosette size compared with Col-0 wild-type plants. Total leaf area was measured for 4-week-old Col-0 wild-type and eer3-1 plants and, from this analysis, it was determined that eer3-1 adult plants are approximately 50% smaller than Col-0 wild-type plants in the absence of exogenous ethylene (Fig. 2D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to determine if the eer3-1 mutation causes an increase in ethylene production, ethylene was collected for 12 h from 4-d-old dark-grown Col-0 wild-type and eer3-1 seedlings and the collected gas was subsequently measured using a gas chromatography system. As shown in Fig. 2D, it was found that eer3-1 mutant seedlings produce approximately four times more ethylene than Col-0 wild type, although this cannot be considered to be the cause of the eer3-1 dark-grown seedling phenotype since the aforementioned growth analyses were done in the presence of an ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor and the exaggerated phenotype for eer3-1 was observed following treatment with saturating ethylene. It was also of interest to determine if the eer3-1 mutation had an effect on ethylene-inducible gene expression, with the expectation being that in conjunction with the severe effect on growth seen for the mutant, there would be a concomitant increase in induction of ethylene-regulated genes. For this analysis, expression of ethylene-responsive reporter genes was assessed in both ethylene-treated seedlings and leaves of eer3-1 and Col-0 wild type. Several genes have been reported to be excellent indicators of the ethylene response in etiolated seedlings, including an ACC oxidase, ACO2 (CITATION), an ethylene receptor, ETR2 (CITATION), and an AP2-like transcription factor, AtEBP (CITATION). For this analysis, Col-0 wild-type and eer3-1 seedlings were grown in the dark for 4 d in either the presence or absence of 5 μM AgNO3 or 100 μl l−1 ethylene, after which total RNA was isolated from collected tissue. Northern analysis revealed that for this limited sample of ethylene-regulated genes, the eer3-1 mutation either had no effect or a deleterious effect on ethylene-dependent induction of gene expression. As shown in Fig. 3A, ethylene treatment resulted in normal induction of ETR2 in eer3-1 compared with Col-0 wild type, whereas both ACO2 and AtEBP were not up-regulated in the mutant to the same level as seen for Col-0 wild type. Further analysis of AtEBP expression in seedlings exposed to a variety of conditions, including 5 μM AgNO3, air, 500 nl l−1 ethylene, and 100 μl l−1 ethylene revealed a profound reduction in AtEBP expression in the eer3-1 mutant compared with Col-0 wild type in response to ethylene (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Ethylene-responsive gene expression was also assessed for eer3-1 leaves using several genes that have been demonstrated to be excellent indicators of the ethylene response. The reporter genes chosen included the ethylene- and JA-inducible AP-2 like transcription factor, ERF1, the ethylene receptor, ETR2, and the defence-related genes, basic chitinase (chiB) and PDF1.2. For this analysis, 4-week-old plants of eer3-1 and Col-0 wild type were exposed to either air or 100 μl l−1 ethylene for 24 h, after which leaf tissue was collected for isolation of total RNA. For both ERF1 and ETR2, there was no apparent difference in ethylene inducibility when comparing Col-0 wild type and eer3-1. In contrast, the eer3-1 mutation has a significant deleterious effect on the expression of both basic chitinase and PDF1.2 following ethylene treatment compared with Col-0 wild type, suggesting that normal EER3 function is required for proper ethylene inducibility of these particular genes. Treatment with 100 μM +/– JA resulted in proper induction of both basic chitinase and PDF1.2 in eer3-1 (Fig. 3D), suggesting that the mutant phenotype of eer3-1 is probably specific to ethylene signalling. A mapping population was generated by crossing eer3-1 (Col-0 background) to Ws wild type and subsequently selecting F2 progeny that displayed exaggerated responsiveness to saturating ethylene. From this analysis, eer3-1 was localized to the bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) MNF13 and subsequently to the gene At5g40770, which has previously been reported to encode an Arabidopsis prohibitin of unknown function, AtPHB3 (Fig. 4A, B). The eer3-1 mutation represents a single nucleotide change (G to A at nucleotide 493) in the coding sequence of At5g40770, which leads to substitution of N for D at position 165 in the AtPHB3 protein. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis roots, leaves, stems, and flowers in order to determine the tissue-specific expression pattern of EER3. Total RNA was also extracted from 4-d-old dark-grown Col-0 wild-type seedlings treated with either 5 μM AgNO3 or 100 μl l−1 ethylene and from eer3-1 seedlings treated with 100 μl l−1 ethylene. EER3 was expressed from low to moderate levels in all tissues tested, but was not found to be ethylene inducible (Fig. 4C, D). The eer3-1 mutation did not significantly reduce the stability of the EER3 transcript (Fig. 4D). A genomic construct consisting of 1 kb of the upstream promoter sequence, the 5′UTR, two exons and an intron, and the 3′UTR was generated in pFGC5941 and introduced into eer3-1 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Glufosinate-resistant T2 progeny were subsequently analysed for growth capability in the presence of saturating ethylene, with dark-grown 4-d-old transgenic lines demonstrating ethylene-responsive growth that was identical to Col-0 wild type instead of eer3-1 (Fig. 4E), indicating that the observed nucleotide change is indeed the cause of the mutant phenotype. Overexpression of EER3 in Arabidopsis did not cause any observable phenotypic changes (data not shown). Since it was not clear whether eer3-1 represented a complete loss-of-function mutation, it was necessary to identify a loss-of-function insertion allele. For this, a T-DNA line (CITATION) that represented an insertion in exon 2 of At5g40770 was obtained and homozygous progeny were generated, with this line being referred to as eer3-2 for the remainder of the report. Growth of eer3-2 for 4 d in the dark in the presence of 5 μM AgNO3 produced an extreme constitutive ethylene response that was identical to ethylene-treated eer3-1, including a pronounced apical hook (Fig. 5A), thus suggesting that eer3-1 represents an ethylene conditional allele since eer3-1 seedlings grow relatively normally in the absence of ethylene. In the presence of 100 μl l−1 ethylene, the phenotypes of dark-grown eer3-1 and eer3-2 were indistinguishable, with both exhibiting the same extreme ethylene response phenotype. The growth of adult eer3-2 plants in the absence of exogenous ethylene was also phenotypically identical to that of eer3-1 plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Northern analysis was performed to determine the effect of the T-DNA insertion on expression of At5g40770 in eer3-2. For this analysis, Col-0 wild-type and eer3-2 seedlings were grown in the dark for 4 d, after which tissue was collected for RNA analysis. The T-DNA insertion in eer3-2 was found to cause both a significant increase in At5g40770 transcript size and a reduction in transcript abundance in comparison with Col-0 wild type (Fig. 5B). Northern analysis also revealed that ethylene-dependent gene expression patterns were altered in eer3-2 similarly to eer3-1. Total RNA was extracted from 4-d-old dark-grown Col-0 wild-type and eer3-2 seedlings treated with either 5 μM AgNO3 or 100 μl l−1 ethylene, and this was used for northern analysis with the ethylene-inducible gene AtEBP (Fig. 5C). From this analysis, expression of AtEBP following ethylene treatment was severely reduced in eer3-2 compared with Col-0 wild type. Gene expression was also analysed for 4-week-old Col-0 wild-type and eer3-2 leaves that were treated with either air or 100 μl l−1 ethylene for 24 h (Fig. 5D). Northern analysis focused on PDF1.2, with expression of this being severely reduced in the eer3-2 mutant compared with Col-0 wild type following ethylene treatment, thus verifying that eer3-2 is a bona fide loss-of-function allele. As part of an effort to understand the role of AtPHB3 in ethylene signalling, double mutants were made between eer3 loss-of-function mutants and mutants representing defects in known components of the ethylene signalling pathway. The ctr1 loss-of-function mutant has a strong constitutive ethylene response even in the absence of ethylene. Because of this, an eer3-1;ctr1-3 double mutant was constructed in order to determine if the eer3-1 phenotype could be elicited in this double mutant in the absence of ethylene. For this analysis, Col-0 wild-type, eer3-1, ctr1-3, and eer3-1;ctr1-3 seedlings were grown in the dark in air for 4 d, after which seedling height was assessed (Fig. 6A). The eer3-1;ctr1-3 double mutant had an extreme hypocotyl inhibition phenotype that was nearly identical to ethylene-treated eer3-1, suggesting that eer3-1 is required to oppose the activation of the ethylene signalling pathway that arises upon loss of CTR1 function. Additionally, there was a moderate reduction in the size of adult eer3-1;ctr1-3 plants compared with either ctr1-3 or eer3-1. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The ein2-5 loss-of-function mutation results in complete ethylene insensitivity due to a lesion in EIN2, which encodes a component required for propagation of an ethylene signal. In order to determine if the eer3-2 mutation is epistatic to the ein2-5 mutation, an eer3-2;ein2-5 double mutant was constructed and it was assessed as to whether the ein2-5 mutation can mask the severe constitutive ethylene response associated with the eer3-2 mutation. Col-0 wild-type, ein2-5, eer3-2, and eer3-2;ein2-5 seedlings were grown in the dark in air for 4 d, after which seedlings were assessed for presentation of a severe triple response phenotype. As shown in Fig. 6B, whereas seedlings of Col-0 wild type and ein2-5 had long hypocotyls in air, both eer3-2 and the eer3-2;ein2-5 double mutant had the extreme hypocotyl shortening phenotype associated with eer3-2. Since ein2-5 represents a mutation that results in complete blockage of ethylene signalling, this indicates that EER3 functions at or below EIN2 in this pathway. The ein3-1 mutation, which is a loss-of-function mutation in the gene encoding the transcription factor EIN3, results in partial ethylene insensitivity in etiolated seedlings. An eer3-2;ein3-1 double mutant was constructed in order to determine if the ein3-1 mutation could block the manifestation of the extreme constitutive ethylene response phenotype seen for eer3-2 in air. For this analysis, Col-0 wild-type, eer3-2, ein3-1, and eer3-2;ein3-1 seedlings were grown in the dark in air for 4 d, after which hypocotyl length was assessed. As shown in Fig. 6C, the ein3-1 mutation was incapable of blocking manifestation of the eer3-2 phenotype in the eer3-2;ein3-1 double mutant, suggesting that EER3 functions at or below the level of EIN3-mediated transcription in the ethylene signalling pathway. In order to determine the subcellular location of EER3, a translational fusion between EER3 and rsGFP (PROEER3:EER3:rsGFP) was constructed and the localization of this was compared with that of GFP alone (PROACT2:rsGFP). Leaves of N. benthamiana were infiltrated with Agrobacterium carrying either PROACT2:rsGFP or PROEER3:EER3:rsGFP, and, after 3 d, samples were examined for fluorescence using a confocal microscope. Analysis revealed a normal pattern of cytoplasmic fluorescence for rsGFP, with little or no signal within the nucleus (Fig. 7). For EER3:rsGFP, fluorescence was widely distributed throughout the epidermal cells expressing this fusion protein, including large patches throughout the cytoplasm along with areas within and surrounding the nucleus, as demonstrated by counterstaining with DAPI. This type of complex pattern of localization is consistent with what has been reported for prohibitins in other biological systems. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For all seedling growth experiments, seeds were surface-sterilized and cold stratified at 4 °C for 4 d in the dark to synchronize germination. Seeds were then suspended in 0.15% (w/v) agarose and sown on PNS medium (CITATION). For triple response experiments, the medium was supplemented with either 5 μM AgNO3 (Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, MO, USA) or 5 μM aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG) (Sigma) as required. Ethylene and propylene dose–response analyses along with analysis of jasmonic acid (JA) responsiveness were all done as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). All adult plants in this study were grown in soil under a 24 h light cycle at 20 °C in a plant growth room supplemented with Sylvania Gro-Lite fluorescent bulbs. For treatment of leaves for RNA extraction, adult plants were grown for 4 weeks in air and then treated with either air or 100 μl l−1 ethylene in an airtight chamber (Plas Labs, Lansing, MI, USA) for 24 h. Immediately after treatment, leaf tissue was collected and quick-frozen for RNA extraction. Measurement of ethylene production was conducted as previously described (CITATION). RNA analysis was performed as previously described (CITATION). For generation of a mapping population, eer3-1 (male; ecotype Col-0) was crossed to Ws-0 wild-type (female), and 4-d-old etiolated F2 seedlings that displayed the eer3-1 phenotype in the presence of 100 μl l−1 ethylene were isolated and planted in soil for subsequent collection of leaf tissue and isolation of genomic DNA. Genomic DNA was prepared as described (CITATION) and used as a template for PCR-based mapping. To narrow the map position of eer3-1, novel CAPS (cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence) markers were developed in a previously described manner (CITATION) for the region to which eer3-1 was localized. CAPS markers generated and used for map-based cloning of eer3-1 were as follows. For the MNF13.20 marker, primers used were 5′-CATTCAGCTTTTGCTTGATGATGTG-3′ and 5′-GATCATCTCATGTTCTGTTTGCATC-3′. MboI digestion resulted in five DNA fragments for Col-0 and four for Ws-0. For the MNF13.24 marker, primers used were 5′-GTGGTTTGGAATCTACAGCCTAAG-3′ and 5′-CAGAAACACAATATATATGTTGCTCAG-3′. AflIII digestion resulted in two DNA fragments for Col-0 and one for Ws-0. Candidate genes within the genetic window were identified and amplified by PCR with Pfu Turbo (Stratagene) and primers designed to the predicted 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions (UTRs), subcloned into pGemT-easy (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), and sequenced by the University of Florida DNA Sequencing Core Laboratory. Sequences were compared with the published Arabidopsis genomic sequence to identify the eer3-1 mutation. Functional complementation was performed by generation by PCR of a genomic construct representing 1 kb of upstream sequence, the complete coding sequence for At5g40770, and its predicted 3′ UTR. This construct was subcloned into pFGC5941 and introduced into the eer3-1 mutant by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Primary transformants were selected by screening for those that were Glufosinate-ammonium (Sigma Chemical Co.) resistant, with T3 plants subsequently analysed by growth in the dark for 4 d in 100 μl l−1 ethylene, after which they were assessed for manifestation of the exaggeration of ethylene response seen for eer3-1. Double mutants were generated by crossing eer3-1 (male) to ctr1-3 (female) and eer3-2 (male) to either ein2-5 or ein3-1 (females). F2 progeny from the crosses with ein2-5 and ein3-1 were grown in the dark for 4 d with 100 μl l−1 ethylene to isolate ethylene-insensitive individuals homozygous for ein2-5 or ein3-1. Isolated individuals were subsequently genotyped by PCR to identify those that were homozygous for the eer3-1 mutation. For PCR analysis, 5′-CGACTTAATTCTATGGATTCAGATG-3′ and 5′-GTGGTAGGTTCCAGAAACATATC-3′ were used to amplify a portion of the EER3 genomic DNA, after which the PCR products were cut with RsaI and BslI, with only wild-type DNA being cut by BslI at nucleotide 404 of the PCR product. For generation of the eer3-1;ctr1-3 double mutant, F2 seedlings were screened in the absence of ethylene for those that exhibited a constitutive triple response. Identified individuals were subsequently genotyped by PCR to identify those that were homozygous for the eer3-1 mutation. An EER3:GFP (green fluorescent protein) translational fusion was made by combining the At5g40770 genomic construct, represented by 1 kb of upstream sequence, the 5′ UTR, and the complete coding sequence for At5g40770 with both the intron and exons without the native stop codon, with the full coding sequence of rsGFP. This construct was cloned into pBI101, transferred to Agrobacterium, and infiltrated into Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. After 3 d, leaves were harvested and treated with 5 μM AgNO3 or 100 μl l−1 ethylene for 24 h, stained with 15 mg ml−1 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) for 30 min, and visualized using a Leica SP-2 confocal microscope. As a control, Agrobacterium carrying an unfused rsGFP construct under the control of the Arabidopsis ACT2 promoter (CITATION) was infiltrated into tobacco leaves.
