!~ABS~! Tic40 is a component of the protein import apparatus of the inner envelope of chloroplasts, but its role in the import mechanism has not been clearly defined. The C terminus of Tic40 shares weak similarity with the C-terminal Sti1 domains of the mammalian Hsp70-interacting protein (Hip) and Hsp70/Hsp90-organizing protein (Hop) co-chaperones. Additionally, Tic40 may possess a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) protein-protein interaction domain, another characteristic feature of Hip/Hop co-chaperones. To investigate the functional importance of different parts of the Tic40 protein and to determine whether the homology between Tic40 and co-chaperones is functionally significant, different Tic40 deletion and Tic40:Hip fusion constructs were generated and assessed for complementation activity in the Arabidopsis Tic40 knock-out mutant, tic40. Interestingly, all Tic40 deletion constructs failed to complement tic40, indicating that each part removed is essential for Tic40 function; these included a construct lacking the Sti1-like domain (ΔSti1), a second lacking a central region, including the putative TPR domain (ΔTPR), and a third lacking the predicted transmembrane anchor region. Moreover, the ΔSti1 and ΔTPR constructs caused strong dominant-negative, albino phenotypes in tic40 transformants, indicating that the truncated Tic40 proteins interfere with the residual chloroplast protein import that occurs in tic40 plants. Remarkably, the Tic40:Hip fusion constructs showed that the Sti1 domain of human Hip is functionally equivalent to the Sti1-like region of Tic40, strongly suggesting a co-chaperone role for the Tic40 protein. Supporting this notion, yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays demonstrated the in vivo interaction of Tic40 with Tic110, a protein believed to recruit stromal chaperones to protein import sites. 
!~RES~! atTic40 Contains Several Conserved Domains—To identify regions of Tic40 that may be important for function, Tic40 sequences from different plant species were aligned (supplemental Fig. S1). The degree of conservation varied considerably along the length of the alignment. Distinct, highly conserved regions corresponding to the transit peptide cleavage site and the predicted transmembrane domain (CITATION) were detected. In addition, three conserved motifs were found in the central part, upstream of a highly conserved C-terminal region. Very high conservation in the C-terminal ∼150 residues suggested that this region may contain one or more important functional domains.  Interestingly, the C terminus of atTic40 was found to display weak similarity to the C termini of eukaryotic Hip and Hop co-chaperones, as reported previously (CITATION, CITATION). However, only an ∼60 residue C-terminal region of atTic40 shows clear homology to the Hip/Hop proteins (Fig. 1A); previous comparisons of Hip and Hop led to the detection of this conserved domain, termed the Sti1 domain (CITATION). The human Hip (hsHip) Sti1 domain shares low but significant similarity with the human Hop (hsHop) Sti1 domain, equivalent to ∼25% identity across 60 residues. As shown in Fig. 1B, the atTic40 C terminus is more similar to the Sti1 domains of mammalian Hip proteins (35% identity) than to those of mammalian Hop proteins (19% identity). This homology with the Hip/Hop Sti1 domains suggests that this region of atTic40 may constitute a conserved Sti1 domain. Moreover, the fact that it resides at the extreme C terminus suggests that it may perform a similar function.  Deletion Mutants of the atTic40 Protein—To investigate the functional importance of different parts of the Tic40 protein, three deletion constructs were made from a full-length atTIC40 cDNA (Fig. 1C): ΔTM lacked codons 95-136, including the predicted transmembrane domain; ΔSti1 lacked codons 391-447 and contained a premature in-frame stop codon (introduction of these mutations also generated an I390L missense mutation); and ΔTPR lacked the entire region between the predicted transmembrane and Sti1 domains (codons 139-389), including the C-proximal region proposed to constitute a TPR domain (an in-frame fusion between residues 138 and 390 was generated, as well as an A137V missense mutation).  The deletion constructs (and the full-length atTIC40 cDNA, termed WT40) were inserted into a T-DNA vector carrying the CaMV 35S promoter and terminator sequences and used to transform tic40 knock-out plants. Multiple (≥19) transformants (T1 plants) were identified for each of the four constructs. Single insertion lines (segregating three resistant T2 plants for every sensitive T2 plant) were further propagated to identify homozygous lines. These were subjected to PCR genotyping, to confirm homozygosity of the tic40 mutation and the presence of the appropriate atTic40 transgene (supplemental Fig. S2), before further analysis.  As expected, the positive control construct, WT40, complemented tic40 fully, restoring wild-type-like appearance and growth in most transformants (Fig. 2A). By contrast, none of the atTic40 deletion constructs gave clear tic40 complementation (Fig. 2A). A total of 24, 34, and 38 transformants were identified for ΔTM, ΔSti1, and ΔTPR, respectively. All ΔTM transformants displayed a tic40-like phenotype (Fig. 2A). Interestingly, identification of ΔTPR transformants (and, to a lesser extent, ΔSti1 transformants) was more difficult, because many plants displayed a more severe phenotype than the tic40 mutant: i.e. seedlings with very small, albino cotyledons. Most ΔTPR transformants (23 of 38) produced T2 progenies containing seedlings with albino cotyledons, whereas only three of the ΔSti1 transformants expressed the albino phenotype (Fig. 2A). The effects of the various deletion constructs were quantified by measuring chlorophyll concentrations in several representative lines (Fig. 2B). As expected, chlorophyll levels in WT40 plants were comparable with those in the wild type, and those in tic40-like ΔTM and ΔSti1 transformants were comparable with those in tic40. By contrast, albino ΔTPR seedlings contained drastically reduced levels of chlorophyll (∼11% of the amount in tic40).  atTic40 Deletion Mutants Are Expressed and Targeted to Chloroplasts—Failure of the deletion constructs to complement tic40 suggested that the deleted proteins were nonfunctional or that they were not expressed and/or targeted to chloroplasts properly. To eliminate the latter possibilities, we assessed accumulation of the proteins by immunoblotting, using an antibody raised against the pea Tic40 (psTic40) C terminus (residues 128-436) (CITATION). As expected, WT40 control plants overexpressed a Tic40 protein of the same size (∼44 kDa) as that in wild type (Fig. 3A); that the apparent size of mature atTic40 is larger than predicted (41 kDa) is consistent with previous observations and may be due to its high proline content (CITATION). This protein could also be detected in isolated chloroplasts, where it was resistant to exogenously applied thermolysin protease, demonstrating proper targeting to the organelle (Fig. 3B).  Expression products were also detected in ΔTM, ΔSti1, and ΔTPR plants (Fig. 3A). In the ΔTM lines, two faint bands were detected: one at ∼43 kDa and another more diffuse band at ∼36 kDa (Fig. 3A). It was recently reported that the atTic40 precursor is subjected to two distinct proteolytic processing events during its targeting to the inner envelope membrane (CITATION). The first processing event is carried out by the stromal processing peptidase, which cleaves after residue 42 to yield an intermediate form of the protein in the stroma; the second event occurs concomitantly with inner membrane insertion and is mediated by a thus far unidentified, envelope-associated peptidase that cleaves after residue 76 (supplemental Fig. S1). Because the transmembrane domain of atTic40 is essential for membrane insertion (CITATION), our ΔTM protein is predicted to accumulate as an intermediate in the stroma. Thus, the ∼43-kDa band in Fig. 3A most likely corresponds to the intermediate form of the ΔTM protein, which has a calculated size of 40 kDa but is expected to have a larger apparent size (CITATION). Consistent with this notion, a ΔTM:YFP fusion protein yielded distinctly stromal fluorescence in transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts, which was in marked contrast with the envelope-associated fluorescence provided by a full-length atTic40:YFP fusion (supplemental Fig. S3).    [[FIGURE]] The low abundance of the ΔTM intermediate (Fig. 3A) probably reflects the instability of the protein when mis-localized to the stroma. We therefore suggest that the additional, diffuse band at ∼36 kDa includes stromal proteolytic fragments of the ΔTM protein (Fig. 3A). Consistent with this interpretation, this band was resolved into at least two distinct fragments in Fig. 3B. As expected, all detected ΔTM forms (∼43- and ∼36-kDa fragments) were completely protected from protease in isolated chloroplasts, indicating that all bands contained fully imported protein (Fig. 3B).  In the ΔSti1 lines, a single and abundant protein of ∼35 kDa was detected. This is most likely the mature, processed ΔSti1 protein (calculated size, 34 kDa), because it was also detected in isolated, protease-treated chloroplasts (Fig. 3B). Finally, a protein of the expected size (13 kDa) was detected in ΔTPR seedlings (Fig. 3A). It was not possible to isolate chloroplasts from these albino seedlings, but the strong effect of the ΔTPR protein on chloroplast biogenesis (Fig. 2, A and B) strongly suggests that it too is properly targeted to the organelle.  The fact that the ΔTM, ΔSti1, and ΔTPR proteins are expressed (and, in the case of ΔTM and ΔSti1, properly targeted to chloroplasts) means that their failure to complement tic40 can be attributed to effects of the deletions on protein functionality. Thus, we conclude that the transmembrane, Sti1, and central regions of atTic40 (the latter incorporating the putative TPR domain) are essential for the activity of the protein.  Dominant-negative Effects of the atTic40 Deletion Mutants—Overexpression of the ΔTPR protein (and, to a lesser extent, the ΔSti1 protein) gave rise to an albino phenotype, much more severe than the tic40 knock-out phenotype, in a large number of seedlings (Fig. 2, A and B). Interestingly, albino ΔTPR and ΔSti1 seedlings reverted to tic40-like growth after 12-14 days (presumably because of the onset of transcriptional silencing of the transgene) but then re-initiated albino growth after transplantation to soil in many cases, producing plants with variegated or fully albino rosette leaves (Fig. 4, A and B). In addition, some of the ΔSti1 transformants that did not display the albino phenotype in seedlings nevertheless developed the phenotype in more mature plants. The fact that a significant proportion ΔSti1 and ΔTPR transformants displayed albino growth at some point during development suggests a dominant-negative effect of the mutant, deleted proteins.    [[FIGURE]] To confirm that these strong phenotypes were because of dominant-negative effects, proteins extracted from variegated leaves and tic40-like leaves of ΔTPR and ΔSti1 plants were analyzed by immunoblotting. Although the ΔTPR protein was expressed in variegated leaves, no such protein was detected in tic40-like leaves (Fig. 4C). Similarly, although the ΔSti1 protein was expressed in both variegated and tic40-like leaves, the protein was much more abundant in the former (Fig. 4C). Thus, the presence of the albino or variegated phenotype correlated with high levels of expression in both cases, clearly indicating a dominant-negative effect of the proteins. Remarkably, although the ΔTM lines produced only tic40-like seedlings (Fig. 2, A and B), some of these developed a variegated leaf phenotype with very pale or albino sectors during later development (data not shown). This variegated phenotype was reminiscent of, but not as severe as, the albino growth observed in the ΔSti1 and ΔTPR lines, suggesting that the ΔTM protein also has the capacity to induce a dominant-negative effect under certain conditions. Thus, the accumulation of all three deleted proteins seems to interfere with the residual chloroplast protein import that occurs in tic40.  The phenotypic data (Fig. 2, A and B) and expression data (Fig. 4C) indicated that the ΔTPR protein is a much more potent inhibitor of chloroplast development than ΔSti1 or ΔTM (ΔTPR >ΔSti1 >ΔTM). The ΔTPR dominant-negative phenotype was associated with profound chloroplast ultrastructural defects; organelles in albino ΔTPR seedlings were underdeveloped in comparison with tic40 chloroplasts (Fig. 2C, panel i) and many were completely devoid of a thylakoid network (Fig. 2C, panel ii). Furthermore, many of the cells in ΔTPR albinos seemed to completely lack recognizable chloroplasts (Fig. 2D). Consistent with these observations, immunoblot analyses revealed that the albino seedlings were strongly deficient in a range of photosynthetic (SSU, OE33, and FNR) and nonphotosynthetic (CPO, Cpn60, and Hsp93) chloroplast proteins (Fig. 2E). Interestingly, however, Tic110 did not appear to be significantly reduced in the ΔTPR albinos.  Functional Similarity between atTic40 and Human Hip—The failure of the ΔSti1 and ΔTPR constructs to complement tic40 indicated that the Sti1 domain and the central region of atTic40, including the putative TPR domain, are important for function. Because similar domains are present in the Hip co-chaperone, we generated domain-swap constructs to assess functional similarity between the proteins (Fig. 1C). Domains of human Hip (hsHip) were used, rather than those of Hop, primarily because the Hip Sti1 domain shows greater similarity to atTic40 (Fig. 1B). First, to determine whether the putative Sti1 domain of atTic40 is functionally equivalent to that of Hip, the 40:HipC domain-swap construct was generated. Second, to determine whether Tic40 performs (co)chaperone functions equivalent to those performed by Hip (CITATION), the 40TP/TM:Hip construct was made. This comprised the transit peptide and transmembrane regions of atTic40 fused to nearly full-length hsHip; the small N-terminal region of hsHip that was removed carries an oligomerization domain (CITATION, CITATION).    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Transgenic tic40 lines were identified for both constructs and characterized in the same manner as the deletion construct transformants (supplemental Fig. S2). Remarkably, all 42 transformants carrying the 40:HipC construct were at least partially complemented, and most were indistinguishable from wild type (Fig. 5A). In contrast, none of the 24 40TP/TM:Hip transformants displayed clear signs of complementation (Fig. 5A). Complementation efficiency in representative lines was quantified by measuring chlorophyll concentrations. Although chlorophyll levels in 40TP/TM: Hip transformants were similar to those in tic40, those in 40:HipC plants were comparable with wild-type levels (Fig. 5B). Chloroplasts in true leaves of representative 40:HipC plants were indistinguishable from wild-type organelles (Fig. 5C), and isolated 40:HipC chloroplasts imported preproteins at least as efficiently as wild-type chloroplasts (Fig. 5D). These data demonstrate that the C terminus of atTic40 is a bona fide Sti1 domain functionally equivalent to the hsHip Sti1 domain, which is somewhat surprising given that the two domains share only limited homology (35% identity; Fig. 1B). Given that Sti1 domains are a unique and characteristic feature of co-chaperones, these data are strongly supportive of a co-chaperone role for Tic40.    [[FIGURE]] Slightly higher protein import rates were observed in the 40:HipC assays than in wild-type assays (Fig. 5D), although these differences were not statistically significant (Student's two-sample t test, p > 0.3). This subtle difference may be explained as follows. Even though 40:HipC chloroplasts in true leaves were indistinguishable from equivalent wild-type chloroplasts (Fig. 5C), a proportion of those in 40:HipC cotyledons were larger than the wild-type organelles (by ∼50% in terms of cross-sectional area) but nevertheless were fully developed internally (data not shown). This presumably reflects the fact that the 35S promoter is not active during early embryogenesis (such that the increased chloroplast size aspect of the tic40 phenotype (CITATION) is not fully complemented), because a similar size phenotype was observed in the cotyledons of WT40 lines (data not shown). The import assays contained equal numbers of chloroplasts, and so experiments with larger organelles might have contained a slightly greater number of protein import sites.  Like the deleted proteins, the fusion proteins were assessed for proper expression and targeting by immunoblotting (Fig. 3, A and B). The abundant ∼44-kDa protein in 40:HipC seedlings is almost certainly the mature protein, because it co-migrates with mature atTic40 as expected (Fig. 3A; the proteins have a similar calculated size and proline content). The additional protein of ∼48 kDa likely corresponds to the intermediate form (CITATION) of 40:HipC, because it is of the expected size. The hsHip domain of 40:HipC may reduce its targeting efficiency (due perhaps to its association with stromal or envelope chaperones), such that complete cleavage to the mature form does not occur. The minor bands likely correspond to proteolytic fragments.  Unfortunately, the 40TP/TM:Hip protein could not be detected using either the psTic40 antibody (because all Tic40 epitopes used to generate the antibody are absent from the fusion protein) or a polyclonal rat Hip antibody (probably because this antibody cross-reacts only weakly with hsHip). However, reverse transcription-PCR clearly demonstrated that the 40TP/TM:Hip transgene is transcribed in several independent lines (supplemental Fig. S4). Furthermore, 40TP/TM:Hip lines were found to behave in a similar fashion to the ΔTM lines, in that some plants developed a variegated (probable dominant-negative) phenotype during later development (data not shown), strongly suggesting that the protein is expressed and targeted to chloroplasts. Thus, although the Sti1 domains of atTic40 and hsHip are functionally equivalent, it would appear that other parts of the proteins are not.  Direct Interaction between atTic40 and atTic110—The partial functional equivalence shared by atTic40 and hsHip strongly suggests that Tic40 plays a co-chaperone role during chloroplast import. Previous observations led to the hypothesis that stromal chaperones (in particular, Hsp93) are recruited to the TIC complex by Tic110 (CITATION-CITATION, CITATION). Thus, if Tic40 does indeed serve to regulate the activity of a stromal chaperone, one might expect it to be closely associated with Tic110. In fact, cross-linking studies have shown that the two proteins are in close proximity (CITATION), and genetic analyses have suggested that they may co-operate functionally (CITATION). However, at the time of this study, no evidence for a direct interaction between the proteins had been presented (although see Ref. CITATION). To address this possibility, we subjected atTic110 and atTic40 to yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis. As shown in Fig. 6 (A and B), the results provided clear evidence of a significant, if rather weak, interaction between the proteins. Visible differences in growth between control and interaction test strains (Fig. 6A) were corroborated by quantitative analysis using established procedures (CITATION) (Fig. 6B). The differences shown in Fig. 6B are highly statistically significant, as was revealed by a Student's two-sample t test (p < 0.05).  Attempts were made to conduct the reciprocal yeast two-hybrid assay (using atTic40 as the bait and atTic110 as the prey), but meaningful experiments were precluded by the fact that the atTic40 bait caused strong levels of constitutive autoactivation of the auxotrophic reporter (data not shown). This problem was observed consistently in repeated experiments using both Gal4- and LexA-based yeast two-hybrid systems, even under conditions of elevated stringency. Such problems were not reported following a similar study using a psTic40 bait (CITATION), and so these observations may reflect inherent differences between the Arabidopsis and pea proteins.  To ensure that our yeast two-hybrid data (and those reported previously (CITATION)) were truly reflective of the in planta situation, we went on to assess the Tic110-Tic40 interaction using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) in transiently transformed protoplasts; BiFC involves the reconstitution of YFP fluorescence upon association of nonfluorescent, N-terminal (NY) and C-terminal (CY) fragments of YFP, brought together as a consequence of their fusion to interacting proteins (CITATION, CITATION). As controls for these experiments, we also analyzed the in vivo distribution of atTic110 and atTic40 fusions to full-length YFP in singly transformed protoplasts.  As expected, YFP fluorescence in cells expressing either of the full-length YFP fusions (pWEN18-Tic110 and pWEN18-Tic40) was exclusively associated with the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 6C). These data nicely corroborate previous findings based on biochemical analysis (which showed that Tic110 and Tic40 are envelope proteins) and indicated that BiFC fluorescence associated with an atTic110-atTic40 interaction should localize to the envelope. Indeed, when we analyzed doubly transformed protoplasts co-expressing fusions of atTic110 and atTic40 to NY and CY, respectively, clear envelope-associated fluorescence was detected (Fig. 6C). Although the Tic110-Tic40 BiFC fluorescence was not as strong as that associated with the full-length YFP fusions, it was substantially stronger than the BiFC signal produced by a previously reported protein-protein interaction (that associated with AtFtsZ2-1 homodimerization; see supplemental Fig. S5) (CITATION). When considered in conjunction with the yeast two-hybrid data, these results strongly support the proposal that atTic110 and atTic40 interact directly.  The BiFC data shown in Fig. 6C demonstrate the interaction between these components in planta for the first time, corroborating the conclusions of previous cross-linking, genetic, and yeast two-hybrid experiments, and indicating that Tic40 is ideally situated to regulate the activity of any chaperones bound to Tic110, such as Hsp93. Attempts were made to assess for a direct interaction between Tic40 and Hsp93 in similar yeast two-hybrid experiments, but no evidence of an interaction was detected. It is likely that the putative Tic40-Hsp93 interaction is either very weak or transient, because attempts to demonstrate an interaction in vitro using recombinant proteins also failed (data not shown). Nevertheless, Hsp93 remains the most likely chaperone partner of Tic40, because cross-linking data have shown that it acts at the same stage in the import mechanism as Tic110 and Tic40 (CITATION), and genetic data have indicated that it likely cooperates functionally with Tic110 and Tic40 (CITATION). Recently published data are certainly supportive of this conclusion (CITATION), as discussed below.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Materials and Growth—All Arabidopsis thaliana plants were of the Columbia-0 ecotype. The tic40-4 mutant used has been described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown on Murashige-Skoog medium using published procedures (CITATION, CITATION). Constructs were stably introduced into tic40-4 plants using the floral dip method (CITATION).  Complementation Construct Generation—cDNA fragments for construct assembly were amplified using Proof Start polymerase (Qiagen, Crawley, UK). The atTic40 template for amplification was cDNA 144K24T7 (accession T76608), whereas the hsHip template included the full coding sequence between the NcoI and KpnI sites of pSPUTK (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Constructs were assembled from PCR fragments and cDNA restriction fragments downstream of the atTIC40 promoter in pSP72 (Promega, Madison, WI). Promoter-construct fusions were transferred to a pBluescript II KS (Stratagene) derivative containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S terminator. These cassettes were transferred to the pBin19 T-DNA vector for Agrobacterium and plant transformation. Because the atTIC40 promoter used in these constructs failed to drive robust expression, it was replaced by the CaMV 35S promoter. A detailed account of these cloning procedures is provided as Supplemental Material.  Characterization of Transgenic Lines—Chlorophyll quantification, immunoblotting, reverse transcription-PCR, electron microscopy, chloroplast isolation, and protein import assays were all conducted using standard procedures, as described previously (CITATION, CITATION).  Yeast Two-hybrid Analysis—Assays were done using the Matchmaker GAL4 Two-hybrid System 3 (Clontech). Gal4 DNA-binding domain (GBD) fusions were made in the pGBKT7 vector, and Gal4 activation domain (GAD) fusions were made in the pGADT7 vector.  Sequence encoding the soluble domain of atTic40 (Tic40ΔN; residues 129-447 of the precursor) was cloned from cDNA 144K24T7 as a DraI-BamHI fragment into SmaI-BamHI-cut pGBKT7 or pGADT7; note that the pGBKT7-Tic40 clone was unusable for interaction analysis, because it caused strong auto-activation of the HIS3 histidine reporter. Sequence encoding the soluble domain of atTic110 (Tic110ΔN; residues 144-1016 of the precursor) was amplified from cDNA RAFL09-95-B13 (accession AY099850) using the following primers: Tic110 SmaI forward, 5′-acc cgg gtg tac cgg agg tag ctg-3′; Tic110 XhoI reverse, 5′-act cga gga ttt aaa aga cga aat tgc c-3′. After sequencing, the SmaI-XhoI-cut Tic110 fragment was cloned into SmaI-XhoI-cut pGADT7 and into SmaI-SalI-cut pGBKT7. The constructs were co-transformed into yeast strain AH109 for the plate growth assays. The control clones, pGBKT7-p53 (pGBKT7-53) and pGADT7-SV40T (pGADT7-T), were supplied by the manufacturer (Clontech).  Quantitative growth assays were conducted using yeast strain HF7c, essentially as described previously (CITATION) except that cultures were grown to an A600 of 0.5 prior to spotting. The difference in growth on synthetic dropout (SD) medium lacking histidine, tryptophan, and leucine (SD-HTL) versus SD medium lacking tryptophan and leucine (SD-TL) was measured after 1 day only.  Fluorescence Microscopy—Full-length coding sequences for atTic40 and atTic110, as well as the atTic40 ΔTM deletion mutant (all three lacking stop codons), were amplified by PCR using cDNA templates described above and the ΔTM binary construct with the following primers: Tic40 XhoI forward, 5′-act cga gat atg gag aac ctt acc cta g-3′; Tic40 KpnI reverse, 5′-agg tac ccg tca ttc ctg gga aga gct g-3′; Tic110 XhoI forward, 5′-tct cga gac cat gaa tcc ctc act c-3′; and Tic110 KpnI reverse, 5′-tgg tac caa aga cga aat tgc cct c-3′. To generate full-length YFP fusions, all three sequences were cloned as XhoI-KpnI fragments into pWEN18 (CITATION). To generate half-YFP fusions for the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays, the two full-length sequences were cloned the same way into pWEN-NY and pWEN-CY (CITATION).  Protoplasts were prepared from 14-day-old, wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings essentially as described previously (CITATION). Seedlings were chopped with a razor blade in solution containing 2% cellulose and 0.08% macerozyme and incubated for 3.5 h. For transfection, 5 μg of plasmid DNA (per clone) was used with 100 μl of protoplast suspension (2 × 106 per ml) and 110 μl of 40% PEG4000 solution. Fluorescence analysis was performed using a Nikon Eclipse TE-2000E inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with filters for analyzing YFP (exciter HQ500/20x, emitter HQ535/30m) and chlorophyll autofluorescence (exciter D480/30x, emitter D660/50m) (Chroma Technologies, Rockingham, VT).  For BiFC analysis, samples were analyzed 16-24 h after (co)transfection. The pWEN-NY-Tic110 with pWEN-CY-Tic40 combination was repeated three times and with relevant controls; the empty vectors (pWEN-NY and pWEN-CY) and the pWEN-NY-Tic110 with pWEN-CY-Tic40 clones did not produce detectable fluorescence when transformed alone (data not shown; supplemental Fig. S5). 
