!~ABS~! In higher plants, nitrate is taken up by root cells where Arabidopsis thaliana NITRATE TRANSPORTER2.1 (ATNRT2.1) chiefly acts as the high-affinity nitrate uptake system. Nitrate taken up by the roots can then be translocated from the root to the leaves and the seeds. In this work, the function of the ATNRT2.7 gene, one of the seven members of the NRT2 family in Arabidopsis, was investigated. High expression of the gene was detected in reproductive organs and peaked in dry seeds. β-Glucuronidase or green fluorescent protein reporter gene expression driven by the ATNRT2.7 promoter confirmed this organ specificity. We assessed the capacity of ATNRT2.7 to transport nitrate in Xenopus laevis oocytes or when it is expressed ectopically in mutant plants deficient in nitrate transport. We measured the impact of an ATNRT2.7 mutation and found no difference from the wild type during vegetative development. By contrast, seed nitrate content was affected by overexpression of ATNRT2.7 or a mutation in the gene. Finally, we showed that this nitrate transporter protein was localized to the vacuolar membrane. Our results demonstrate that ATNRT2.7 plays a specific role in nitrate accumulation in the seed.
!~RES~! The AtGenExpress initiative, supported by different countries (Germany, Japan, the United States, and the UK), compiles data from >1300 microarrays and can be used as a tool to follow the expression of your favorite gene. When we analyzed these in silico data, ATNRT2.7 appeared to be highly expressed in seeds. The expression of ATNRT2.7 increases by a factor of 6.5 between the 7th and 8th stages and a factor of 15 between the 7th and 10th stages of seed development (https://genevestigator-1.ethz.ch/). We thus decided to validate these results by real-time PCR analysis alongside all the other members of the NRT2 family. Two different stages of seed development were tested together with root and shoot extracts to compare with our previous results (CITATION). Results of both experiments are summarized in Table 1 for the ATNRT2.1 and ATNRT2.7 genes. As found previously, the ATNRT2.1 gene is predominantly expressed in roots as compared with shoots, while the ATNRT2.7 gene is more expressed in shoots. However, the most striking point is the huge amount of ATNRT2.7 mRNA in seeds (nearly 200% of the EF1α control gene), especially at the end of seed maturation when the tissue is completely dry. Interestingly, the expression decreases after 6 h of imbibition. With the exception of ATNRT2.5, which reaches only 6% of the EF1α level in dry seeds, we could not detect significant expression of any other NRT2 family members in this organ in two independent experiments (data not shown). Gene Expression Level in Different Organs To further characterize the expression of ATNRT2.7 in seeds, we have used a fusion between a 2-kb fragment of the ATNRT2.7 promoter and either the β-glucuronidase (GUS) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene. These constructs were stably introduced into the Arabidopsis Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype, and Figure 1 shows typical results from GUS staining of seeds harvested from one of these transformants. After 1 h of imbibition to enable better separation of embryos from seed coats, histochemical GUS staining was performed (Figures 1A and 1B). A uniform and strong GUS activity was detected in transgenic embryos, while wild-type embryos remained unstained (Figure 1A). The seed coat is characterized by a faint blue staining, which reveals a weak expression of ATNRT2.7 in the surrounding endosperm (Figure 1B). Homozygous lines were also obtained carrying the GFP reporter gene under the control of the same 2-kb fragment of the ATNRT2.7 promoter. In these lines, embryos were also dissected after 1 h of water imbibition and observed using confocal microscopy (Figure 1C). Membranes were stained with FM4-64 (red dye; Figure 1D), making the embryonic cells clearly visible. Strong green fluorescence was observed in all tissues, including the cotyledons and radicles (Figure 1E). Altogether, these data suggest strongly that the expression of ATNRT2.7 is developmentally regulated and that ATNRT2.7 transcripts accumulate in seeds undergoing dessication. [[FIGURE]] A large number of NRT2 gene sequences are now available, and homologous sequences are found in three clades: mosses, gymnosperms, and angiosperms (5, 5, and 26 genes, respectively; see Supplemental Table 1 online). When the evolutionary relationship between these sequences and those of two NRT2 genes from algae was investigated using a Bayesian method, the NRT2 genes appear to be grouped into well distinct classes for algae, mosses, and seed plants (Figure 2 ). In the seed plant clade, the NRT2 genes appeared to be clustered into two monophyletic groups, Group A (NRT2.1, NRT2.2, NRT2.3, NRT2.4, and NRT2.6) and Group B (NRT2.5 and NRT2.7). This phylogenetic analysis highlights the fact that the NRT2 genes that have been so far characterized as nitrate transporters in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), Nicotiana plumbaginifolia (CITATION), or Hordeum vulgare (CITATION) belong to Group A. The NRT2.7 gene is classified in a distinct monophyletic group within this best-characterized family of plant nitrate transporters. [[FIGURE]] Thus, to evaluate the capacity of the ATNRT2.7 protein to transport nitrate, we introduced the ATNRT2.7 cDNA driven by the 35S promoter into the atnrt2.1-1 mutant background (CITATION). As a positive control, we used transgenic plants expressing the Np NRT2.1 gene under the control of the RolD promoter that has been shown to restore nitrate influx in the Arabidopsis mutant back to 90% of that shown by the wild type (mR2 clone; CITATION). Homozygous transgenic plants were grown for 6 weeks in a hydroponic system on 0.2 mM NO3−, a N-limiting condition for the atnrt2.1-1 mutant (CITATION). Root nitrate influx was measured at an external concentration of 0.2 mM using 15NO3− (atom% 15N: 99%). At this concentration, the difference in the HATS activity between the wild type and the atnrt2.1-1 mutant was largest (CITATION). In two independent experiments, the overexpression of the two genes (ATNRT2.7 and Np NRT2.1) was correlated with an increase in the root 15NO3− influx (Figure 3A ). This influx in the transgenic plants represents 160% of that measured for the atnrt2.1-1 mutant for both genes, indicating a similar extent of phenotypic recovery as HATS activity was restored in both types of plants. Quantitative RT-PCR analyses confirmed that this restoration of nitrate influx in the transgenic plants was not due to altered expression or compensation by other members of the NRT2 family (Table 2 ). [[FIGURE]] Relative Gene Expression Level of ATNRT2 and Np NRT2.1 Genes in Roots of the atnrt2.1-1 Mutant Complemented by Pro35S:ATNRT2.7 or ProRolD:Np NRT2.1 Constructs In addition, to confirm the hypothesis that ATNRT2.7 is a nitrate transporter, we used a heterologous expression system. In this experiment, Xenopus laevis oocytes were injected with nuclease-free water or ATNRT2.7 mRNA. After 3 d, oocytes were incubated in a solution enriched with 5 mM Na15NO3 (atom% 15N: 98%), and the 15N enrichment of individual oocytes was measured after 16 h. These measurements showed that ATNRT2.7 mRNA–injected oocytes took up significantly more nitrate than water-injected controls (Figure 3B). We next investigated the effect of a mutation in the nitrate transporter ATNRT2.7. T-DNA mutants were isolated from two independent T-DNA libraries, in the Columbia (Col-8) and Ws backgrounds, and homozygous lines were selected, called atnrt2.7-1 and atnrt2.7-2, respectively (see Methods). These mutants are knockouts for the NRT2.7 gene (data not shown), but no difference in root nitrate influx mediated by either the HATS or the LATS was found in both types of plant, whether grown with limiting (0.2 mM) or nonlimiting (6 mM) nitrate supply (Table 3 ). Nitrate and free amino acid contents in roots and shoots of both mutants were also measured and were found to be identical to the wild type under both levels of nitrate supply (Table 3). Taken together, these results suggest that the ATNRT2.7 protein is a functional nitrate transporter, but, possibly because of its expression site, it is not involved in the direct uptake of nitrate from soil by the root system or in nitrate distribution within the vegetative organs. Physiological Characterization of the atnrt2.7 Mutants Due to its specific expression pattern, we asked if this gene could be involved in nitrate accumulation in seeds. In Arabidopsis, a recent study showed that N and C metabolites are accumulated in seeds in a specific way during seed formation and maturation (CITATION), but to our knowledge, only a few studies have been devoted to nitrate storage in Arabidopsis seeds (CITATION). Six independently isolated plant lines per genotype were grown together in the greenhouse under long days, on the same soil type and under nonlimiting N conditions (watered with 10 mM nitrate nutrient solution). Seeds were harvested from individuals after complete maturation and senescence of the plants. The results of seed nitrate content determinations are shown in Figure 4A . The atnrt2.7-1 seeds had only 35% less nitrate than Ws wild-type controls. This decreased seed nitrate phenotype was even greater in the Col-8 ecotype, where a statistically significant 70% reduction of nitrate content in the mutant was observed. As the seed weights are very similar in both the genotypes, these differences are observed in nitrate content whether it is expressed on a per seed or on a milligram/dry weight (DW) basis (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We next compared seed nitrate content in over- and underexpressing ATNRT2.7 plants. As the Pro35S:ATNRT2.7 plants were obtained in the Ws genotype, we increased the amount of nitrate in the nutrient solution up to 50 mM after flowering to enhance the small difference already observed on 10 mM between the mutant and Ws wild type (Figure 4A). Results of a typical experiment are shown in Figure 4B. As expected, the amount of nitrate in seeds of wild-type plants supplied with 50 mM is higher than with 10 mM nitrate (82 and 58 nmol/mg DW, respectively). When comparing seed nitrate content after either 10 to 50 mM nitrate supply, the amount in the atnrt2.7-2 mutant had increased only slightly, leading to twofold less nitrate compared with the wild type (Figure 4B), and this difference was statistically significant. These data support the idea that ATNRT2.7 plays a major role in seed nitrate accumulation and agrees with the result obtained when seed nitrate contents were compared between overexpressor and wild-type plants. Nitrate contents in Pro35S:ATNRT2.7-overexpressing plants reached 160 and 310% of the nitrate in Ws and atnrt2.7-2 seeds, respectively. Nitrate was demonstrated to be a signal relieving seed dormancy in Arabidopsis (CITATION). In this study, we used the same batch of seeds as those used for nitrate determination to test the impact of endogenous nitrate content on the seed germination of our different genotypes. Freshly harvested seeds were sown on agar medium containing only distilled water, and the percentage of germination was scored at different times after sowing. In the same experiment, the viability of seeds was compared after stratification on media containing 1 mM nitrate, and in this case, the percentage of germination of all genotypes had increased to 100%. However, just 2 d after sowing on water, both mutants showed a delay in germination compared with their respective wild-type controls (Figure 5A ). The strongest phenotype was observed for the atnrt2.7-2 mutant, which displayed significantly fewer germinated seeds throughout the 7 d of measurements compared with its Ws control. By contrast, the Col-8 wild-type background showed less dormancy, and the germination difference with the corresponding atnrt2.7-1 mutant was only significantly different 2 d after sowing. [[FIGURE]] This correlation between nitrate content and seed dormancy was further highlighted by measuring the kinetics of germination of freshly harvested seeds from over- and underexpressing plants. The same batches of seeds that had already been tested for their nitrate content (Figure 4B) were sown on water-containing medium, and germination was scored as described above (Figure 5B). As found when plants are grown on 10 mM nitrate, the percentage of germination of seeds of the atnrt2.7-2 mutant grown on 50 mM nitrate was always lower when compared with wild-type seeds. By contrast, seeds from the Pro35S:ATNRT2.7 overexpressors showed a significantly higher percentage of germinated seeds only at 2 d after sowing. To localize ATNRT2.7 at the subcellular level, we used a chimeric protein where GFP6 was fused to the N-terminal part of ATNRT2.7. The capacity of the GFP-tagged protein to transport nitrate was first tested. We compared the Pro35S:ATNRT2.7- with the Pro35S:GFP-ATNRT2.7-overexpressing lines in the atnrt21.1-1 mutant background and found similar effects on the root nitrate influx of 15NO3− and on the seed nitrate contents (Table 4 ). In addition, the dormancy of the overexpressors was tested, and GFP-tagged plants were less dormant than the wild type, like the Pro35S:ATNRT2.7 lines (data not shown). Altogether, these results demonstrate that the ATNRT2.7 protein was still active when it was fused to GFP. Nitrate Transport Activity of the Pro35S:GFP-ATNRT2.7 Fusion Confocal microscopy revealed an ATNRT2.7-dependent green fluorescent labeling that coincided with the tonoplast in the mature part of the root (Figure 6A ). This tonoplast localization was even more evident in the root tip (Figure 6D), where this subcellular compartment was present as little vacuoles that fused to give the large central vacuole. This localization was further confirmed by staining lipid membranes using the red fluorescent probe, FM4-64 (Figures 6B and 6E). By merging the two pictures, GFP and FM4-64, the tonoplast was clearly distinguishable in the root meristem (Figure 6F) and in the mature part of the root where formation of the main central vacuole occurs (Figure 6C). In embryos (Figure 6G), although GFP imaging in dry seeds led to a diffuse labeling (data not shown), 12 h of water imbibition allowed us to clearly distinguish two different intracellular patterns: a tonoplast localization surrounding the vacuoles that corresponded to seed protein bodies and another more punctuated localization (Figure 6H). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The SALK_073582 line (atnrt2.7-1) was obtained from the ABRC and was derived from a T-DNA–mutagenized population of the Col-8 ecotype (CITATION), while the atnrt2.7-2 line was derived from a T-DNA–mutagenized population of the Ws ecotype (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous mutant plants were isolated by PCR with the primers 2.7A (5′-CGGTATCTCTCAGCTCCTTATGCCTCTC-3′) and 2.7B (5′-GATGACGAAGGCCCACAACACATTCCAC-3′). Both of the T-DNA insertions were located in the first exon of ATNRT2.7. The absence of transcript downstream from the insertion sites was checked by quantitative RT-PCR with the primers 7E (5′-CCTTCATCCTCGTCCGTTTC-3′) and 7F (5′-AATTCGGCTATGGTGGAGTA-3′). Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Col-8 and Ws as well as mutants or transgenic plants were grown either in the greenhouse or under hydroponic conditions in a Sanyo growth chamber with an 8-h-light/16-h-dark cycle at 21°C/17°C, respectively, 80% relative humidity, and 150 μmol m−2 s−1 irradiation. In greenhouse conditions, seeds were stratified for 48 h at 4°C in the dark in a 0.1% agar solution and then sown and cultivated as already described (CITATION). The nutrient solutions contained 10 mM nitrate, and in some cases, 2 weeks after bolting (flower initiation), the nitrate regime of plants was changed to 50 mM nitrate. Nucleotide sequences were manually aligned by first translating into proteins and then using the sequence alignment editor software BioEdit. Only regions where the assessment of primary homology appeared reasonable were kept, generating a 1517-nucleotide position matrix. A phylogenetic tree was reconstructed using MrBayes version 3.1 (CITATION) after back-translating to nucleotide sequences. The model of evolution used is the general time reversible model estimating separate rates of change for each type of nucleotide substitution with gamma distribution shape parameter estimated to account for rate heterogeneity. Analysis was run with the following parameters: number of generations = 500,000; sampling frequency = 10 generations; number of chains = 4. Posterior probabilities were computed after discarding 200,000 generations (burn-in period) and computing a consensus of trees saved in the remaining generations. The tree was visualized using MEGA3.1 (CITATION). RNA was extracted with the Gen Elute Mammalian Total RNA kit from Sigma-Aldrich, modified by adding a DNase step, which was performed with the Qiagen RNase-free DNase kit. First strands were synthesized according to CITATION using M-MLV reverse transcriptase and oligo(dT) 15 primers (Promega). The PCR was performed on a LightCycler instrument (Roche) with the LightCycler-FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I kit for PCR (Roche) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Each reaction was performed on a 1:20 dilution of the first cDNA strands, synthesized as described above, in a total reaction of 20 μL. With this dilution, the SYBR green signal was linear. Specific primer sets were used for the seven ATNRT2 genes, as previously described (CITATION). The experiment was performed twice on independent biological samples. In this experiment, the full-length ATNRT2.7 cDNA was amplified by RT-PCR from total RNAs extracted from Ws leaves using the start primer (5′-CGAGAGTAATGGAGCCATCTCAACG-3′), the stop primer (5′-CGCACATCAACAAACGGGACGTAGA-3′), and the high-fidelity Taq enzyme (Roche) and cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega). The nucleotide sequence of the insert was checked before transferring the cDNA first in the pRT103 vector (CITATION) downstream from the 35S promoter, and this whole chimeric gene was then transferred into a pGREEN vector (CITATION) already containing the 35S terminator. Binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pMP90). The atnrt2.1-1 mutant was transformed by the in planta method using the surfactant Silwet L-77, and transformants were selected on 20 μg/mL of hygromycin B. Influx of 15NO3− was assayed as previously described (CITATION). The plants were transferred first to 0.1 mM CaSO4 for 1 min and then to complete nutrient solution containing 0.2 mM 15NO3− (atom% 15N: 99%) for 5 min and finally to 0.1 mM CaSO4 for 1 min (300 mL for plants grown in hydroponics and 20 mL for plants grown in vitro). After homogenization, an aliquot of the frozen powder was dried overnight at 80°C and analyzed using the ANCA-MS system (PDZ Europa). Influx of 15NO3− was calculated from the total N and 15N content of the roots (1 mg DW). The pGEM-T Easy vector containing the full-length AtNRT2.7 cDNA was fully digested with NotI. The cDNA fragment was blunted using the klenow enzyme and subcloned into the EcoRV site of the pT7TS expression vector containing the 5′- and 3′-untranslated regions of the Xenopus β-globin gene (CITATION). For in vitro synthesis of mRNA, pT7TS clones were linearized by digestion with BamHI. Synthesis of capped full-length mRNAs and Xenopus oocyte preparation were performed as previously described (CITATION). Healthy oocytes at stage V or VI were injected with 50 nL of water (nuclease free) or ATNRT2.7 mRNAs at 1 μg·μL−1. After 3 d incubation at 18°C, 5 to 10 oocytes were incubated in 3 mL of ND96 solution enriched with 5 mM Na15NO3 (atom% 15N: 98%) during 16 h at 18°C. The oocytes were then thoroughly washed four times with ice-cooled 5 mM NaNO3 ND96 solution and dried at 60°C. The 15N/14N ratio of the single dried oocyte was measured as previously described (CITATION). The values are means ± sd of five replicates; results from a representative experiment are shown. Nitrate contents of seeds were determined as described previously (CITATION). For the extraction, 50 seeds were homogenized in 500 μL 80% (v/v) ethanol at 4°C and extracted for 120 min. Nitrate content of seeds was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography on a DX-120 analyzer (Dionex). Nitrate and free amino acid contents in leaves or roots were measured as previously described (CITATION). For each experiment, all genotypes were harvested on the same day. Four independent batches of 50 to 80 mature seeds were sown on 0.5% agarose plates (Litex agarose; FCM A/C) sometimes containing an additional 1 mM potassium nitrate. The plates were incubated in a growth chamber (Percival; Cu-36L6) at 25°C, with 16 h of light (100 μmol m−2 s−1), 8 h of dark, and 60% relative humidity. Germination was scored as positive when the radicle protruded from the seed. A cold treatment at 4°C for 3 d was also performed to test the viability of mature seeds. Histochemical GUS staining was performed according to the method described by CITATION, with some modifications. Dry seeds were first sown on imbibed filter paper during 1 h, and the seed coat was removed before staining embryos. Embryos were vacuum-infiltrated for 1 h in a 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2 (1% Triton, 0.5 to 5 mM ferro/ferricyanide, and 2 mM X-glucuronide). Subsequently, samples were incubated overnight in the dark at 37°C. Stained embryos was cleared by incubation in a chloralhydrate solution (8:2:1 [w/v/v] of chloralhydrate, water, and glycerol, respectively) and then observed under a light microscope (Axioplan 2; Zeiss). Binary vectors containing GUS or GFP fusions with the ATNRT2.7 promoter or coding sequences were obtained using Gateway technology (CITATION). A genomic Arabidopsis ATNRT2.7 region, starting from position −2,000 bp upstream of the translation initiation site and terminating before the ATG codon, was amplified from ecotype Ws by PCR with primers NRT2.7 PGW5′ (5′-AAAAAAGCAGGCCTCAGGTTGACTTCATCATTGG-3′) and NRT2.7PGW3′ (5′-AAGAAAGCTGGGTACGACTCTTACTTACACGAC-3′). Amplification was performed using the Expand high-fidelity PCR system (Roche), and the amplified fragment was cloned in front of the GFP and GUS coding sequence in the pBI101 derived gateway vector (CITATION). The binary plasmids were transferred to A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pMP90) by triparental mating. First primers AttB1-ATNRT2.7 start (AttB1, 5′-GAGCCATCTCAACGCAAC-3′) and AttB2-ATNRT2.7 End-Stop (AttB2, 5′-AACAAACGGGACGTAGACTACC-3′) were used to amplify a complete ATNRT2.7 cDNA from our previously isolated clone (see above). PCR products were obtained with the Expand high-fidelity PCR system and amplified with the universal U3-endstop (5′-AGATTGGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTCCACCTCCGGATC-3′) and U5 primers (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCGAAGGAGATAGAACCATG-3′) to create the recombinant site AttB. The product of recombination reactions (BP reactions) was used to transform competent Escherichia coli, strain TOP10 (Invitrogen), by heat shock. LR clonase reactions to T-DNA fragments from the entry clone to the destination binary vector pMDC 43 (CITATION) were performed. The vectors pMDC43/ATNRT2.7 were generated with GFP6 in N-terminal fusion, and the binary vectors, containing the Pro35S:GFP-ATNRT2.7 construct, were sequenced before transformation of A. tumefaciens. Arabidopsis plants, the wild type or the atnrt2.1-1 mutant, were transformed according to the in planta method using the surfactant Silwet L-77 (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on Estelle and Sommerville media (CITATION) containing 50 μg L−1 of kanamycin. Seven-day-old transformed plantlets grown on Estelle and Sommerville media were observed with the TCSNT confocal microscope (Leica) equipped with an argon/krypton laser (Omnichrome). Cells in living roots and embryo were stained with 0.1 μg/mL of FM4-64 (Molecular Probes). The different fluorochromes were detected using laser lines 488 nm (Alexa 488, GFP, and FM4-64) and 543 nm (Alexa 568). The images were coded green (fluorescent isothiocyannate and GFP) and red (Alexa 568 and FM4-64), giving yellow colocalization in merged images. The samples were washed twice after staining before observation with the confocal microscope. Each image shown represents a single focal plane. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the accession numbers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. The NRT2 Gene Family in Plants and Algae.
