!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis AtMTP family of genes encode proteins of the cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family, with several members having roles in metal tolerances. Four of the 11 proteins in the family form a distinct cluster on a phylogenetic tree and are closely related to ShMTP8, a CDF identified in the tropical legume Stylosanthes hamata that is implicated in the transport of Mn2+ into the vacuole as a tolerance mechanism. Of these four genes, AtMTP11 was the most highly expressed member of the Arabidopsis subgroup. When AtMTP11 was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it conferred Mn2+ tolerance and transported Mn2+ by a proton-antiport mechanism. A mutant of Arabidopsis with a disrupted AtMTP11 gene (mtp11) was found to have increased sensitivity to Mn2+ but not to Cu2+ or Zn2+. At a non-toxic but sufficient Mn2+ supply (basal), the mutant accumulated more Mn2+ than the wild type, but did not show any obvious deleterious effects on growth. When grown with Mn2+ supplies that ranged from basal to toxic, the mutant accumulated Mn2+ concentrations in shoots similar to those in wild-type plants, despite showing symptoms of Mn2+ toxicity. AtMTP11 fused to green fluorescent protein co-localized with a reporter specific for pre-vacuolar compartments. These findings provide evidence for Mn2+-specific transport activity by AtMTP11, and implicate the pre-vacuolar compartments in both Mn2+ tolerance and Mn2+ homeostasis mechanisms of Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The expression of the four AtMTP genes most similar to ShMTP8 was assessed in whole seedlings of wild-type Arabidopsis grown with a range of Mn2+ supplies (Figure 1). Of the four genes in this group, AtMTP11 (At2g39450) showed the greatest expression level having about sevenfold greater expression than both AtMTP9 (At1g79520) and AtMTP10 (At1g16310), and about 70-fold greater expression than AtMTP8 (At3g58060). The expression of all four genes was little affected by Mn2+ supplies that ranged from basal (4.5 μm of added Mn2+) to severely toxic (2 mm). [[FIGURE]] As AtMTP11 had the greatest expression level, the function of this gene was characterized further. A cDNA for the complete coding region of AtMTP11 was amplified by PCR and cloned into the yeast expression vector pYES2. The metal tolerances of the yeast (S. cerevisiae) strain INVSc2, transformed with pYES2 expressing either AtMTP11 or ShMTP8, were compared with control yeast transformed with the empty vector. ShMTP8 was included as a positive control, as it has been shown previously to confer Mn2+ tolerance when expressed in yeast (CITATION). Both cDNAs conferred enhanced Mn2+ tolerance to the yeast when grown in liquid culture, with ShMTP8 conferring a greater level of tolerance (Figure 2). When grown in liquid medium supplemented with sub toxic Mn2+, yeast expressing AtMTP11 accumulated similar levels of Mn2+ to the control strain (Figure S1). On solid medium both cDNAs also conferred Mn2+ tolerance to the yeast, with ShMTP8 again conferring a greater level of tolerance than AtMTP11 (data not shown). Although neither AtMTP11 nor ShMTP8 conferred increased tolerance to a range of other metals, including Zn2+, Co2+ or Ni2+, both genes conferred tolerance to Cu2+, although the increase in tolerance was relatively small when compared with the increase in Mn2+ tolerance (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The relative Mn2+ sensitivities of various knock-out mutants in the yeast strain BY4743 have been described (CITATION). The mutant most sensitive to Mn2+ is pmr1, and its growth was severely affected across a range of Mn2+ concentrations that only marginally affected growth of the control strain (Figures 3a,b). As the pmr1 mutant is unable to grow to the same density as the control at saturation, the effect of Mn2+ on the two strains was assessed when both strains had attained similar densities with a basal Mn2+ supply. Under these conditions, AtMTP11 conferred clear Mn2+ tolerance to the pmr1 mutant across a range of Mn2+ concentrations, whereas when expressed in the control strain, AtMTP11 did not enhance Mn2+ tolerance (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the Mn2+ tolerance phenotype of the yeast strain INVSc2 expressing AtMTP11 or ShMTP8 was due to Mn2+ transport that required a proton gradient, the transport activity of membrane vesicles was assayed. A proton gradient (inside acidic) was established across the membranes by energization of the H+-ATPase and acridine orange fluorescence used to monitor the pH inside the vesicles. Addition of Mn2+ dissipated the proton gradient more rapidly in vesicles prepared from yeast expressing AtMTP11 or ShMTP8 than in vesicles prepared from the control strain, consistent with both proteins acting as Mn2+/proton antiporters (Figure 4). By contrast, when either Cd2+ or Zn2+ was added, the proton gradient was dissipated at the same rate in vesicles prepared from control and from ShMTP8- and AtMTP11-expressing yeast strains. [[FIGURE]] All three metal ions elicited fluorescence recovery when added to the vesicles prepared from control yeast, which was presumably due to background activities of endogenous yeast cation/proton antiporters. The fluorescence recovery was unlikely to have been due to dissipation of the proton gradient caused by leaky membrane vesicles, because the addition of water alone instead of metal ions failed to elicit recovery of fluorescence (data not shown). Furthermore, addition of the protonophore carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone or the detergent Triton X-100 completely dissipated the proton gradient, causing fluorescence recovery of a much greater magnitude than that elicited by the addition of any of the metal salts (data not shown). A homozygous mutant line of Arabidopsis (mtp11) that had the AtMTP11 coding region interrupted by a T-DNA insert was compared with a homozygous sibling line that lacked the T-DNA insert (wild type). Analysis confirmed that expression of AtMTP11 was significantly reduced in the mutant, whereas the expression levels of the other three related genes remained similar to wild type (Figure 5). The mtp11 mutant was visually indistinguishable from wild type when grown in potting mix (data not shown). However, when grown on nutrient agar with a basal supply of Mn2+, the mtp11 mutant accumulated more Mn2+ in shoots and roots (45–60% greater concentrations) than the wild type, whereas the concentrations of other mineral nutrients did not differ between the lines (Table 1). On nutrient agar supplied with Mn2+ concentrations that ranged from basal to toxic levels, mtp11 was more sensitive to Mn2+ than the wild type, as determined by significantly reduced shoot dry weights (Figure 6a). Analysis of Mn2+ in shoots showed that both wild type and mutant accumulated similar Mn2+ concentrations at the various Mn2+ supplies, despite the differences in growth (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]]  *Concentrations expressed on a dry weight basis. [[FIGURE]] To verify that the phenotypes associated with the mtp11 mutant were due to reduced AtMTP11 expression, wild-type plants were transformed with an RNAi transgene that targeted AtMTP11. AtMTP11 expression in two independent transgenic lines was reduced compared with wild type, with a corresponding increased Mn2+ sensitivity and greater Mn2+ accumulation at basal Mn2+ supply for both lines (Figure S2). The mtp11 mutant and wild type were grown in media without added Mn2+ to determine if a phenotype was apparent when Mn2+-deficient. Although both genotypes had reduced growth in the absence of Mn2+, which was indicative of Mn2+ deficiency, the mutant was affected similarly to the wild type (Figure S3). The ability of the mtp11 mutant to tolerate Cu2+ and Zn2+ was also assessed in view of the small increase in Cu2+ tolerance conferred by AtMTP11 when expressed in yeast (data not shown), and the observation that other CDF proteins confer increased Zn2+ tolerance when overexpressed in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). However, in contrast to Mn2+, the mtp11 mutant showed the same level of tolerance to both Cu2+ and Zn2+ as the wild-type control (Figure S4). To determine whether AtMTP11 is able to complement the mtp11 mutant and to establish the subcellular location of AtMTP11, a sequence encoding GFP was fused in frame to the 3′ end of the AtMTP11 cDNA that lacked a stop codon. Expression of AtMTP11–GFP in the mtp11 mutant of Arabidopsis enhanced Mn2+ tolerance and reduced the Mn2+ concentration of shoots and roots at basal Mn2+ supply in the T2 generation (homozygous lines) of two independently transformed lines (Figure 7). Similarly, root growth of the mtp11 mutant, which was suppressed at 1 mm Mn2+, was also alleviated by expression of AtMTP11–GFP (Figure S5a). As observed for shoots, Mn2+ concentrations in roots at 1 mm Mn2+ supply were similar for wild type, mtp11 mutant and mtp11 mutant expressing AtMTP11–GFP (Figure S5b). Enhanced Mn2+ tolerance and reduced shoot Mn2+ concentration were also observed in the T1 generation of a third independently transformed line, but when a T2 homozygous line was derived from this line, expression was silenced (Figure S6). This coincided with loss of Mn2+ tolerance and increased Mn2+ concentrations in tissues, thus providing additional evidence for the association of AtMTP11 expression with the Mn2+ tolerance and homeostasis phenotypes. Despite detectable expression and partial complementation of the mtp11 mutant by transgenic plants expressing AtMTP1–GFP, GFP fluorescence in these plants was very low, suggesting that the GFP signal had been degraded. [[FIGURE]] To study the subcellular localization of AtMTP11, we generated AtMTP11–GFP (GFP fused to C-terminus of AtMTP11) and GFP–AtMTP11 (GFP fused to N-terminus of AtMTP11) and transiently expressed them in both tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 protoplasts and intact leek (Allium ampeloprasum) cells. Both systems used for transient expression showed numerous small, fluorescent, motile structures (Figures 8 and 9). Their identity was confirmed to be pre-vacuolar compartments (PVCs) by co-localization with specific markers for these organelles and by the effects of pharmacological reagents on their morphology. When transiently expressed in tobacco protoplasts together with either a PVC or a Golgi marker, most AtMTP11–GFP signals co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (Figure 8 panel series 1), but were largely separate from the Golgi marker mRFP-Man1 (Figure 8 panel series 2). The N-terminal construct GFP–AtMTP11 also co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (Figure 8 panel series 3), but not with the Golgi marker mRFP-Man1 (Figure 8 panel series 4). Thus both AtMTP11–GFP and GFP–AtMTP11 fusions localized to the vacuole sorting receptor (VSR)-marked PVCs in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Similarly, in leek cells transiently expressing the constructs, AtMTP11–GFP and GFP–AtMTP11 fluorescence was seen in organelles (0.2-1.0 μm in diameter), which were very similar to PVCs (Figure 9 panels 1,2), and did not co-localize with STtmd-DsRed, a Golgi-specific reporter (Figure 9c, panels 3a-3c). When leek cells were treated with 20 μm wortmannin for 2 h, the organelles labelled with AtMTP11–GFP became less motile, and in many cases displayed a vacuolated morphology (Figure 9 panel 4), whereas Golgi vesicles showed no change in response to wortmannin. Treatment with 50 μm brefeldin A (BFA) did not alter the morphology of AtMTP11–GFP organelles, but did cause them to aggregate, whereas Golgi vesicles became swollen (Figure 9 panel 5). Longer treatment with BFA caused STtmd-DsRed fluorescence to appear in endoplasmic reticulum-like structures with abnormal morphology, and the organelles labelled with AtMTP11–GFP to accumulate in large aggregates (Figure 9 panel 6). In contrast to AtMTP11–GFP, Arabidopsis mtp11 seedlings stably transformed with GFP–AtMTP11 showed clear GFP fluorescence in punctuate structures similar to those seen in transient expression (Figure S7), and the Mn2+-sensitive phenotype was also complemented (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Yeast (S. cerevisiae) was grown by liquid and agar cultures using complete synthetic medium supplemented with amino acids, as described by CITATION, and plasmids extracted from yeast transformed by the procedure described by CITATION were amplified in Escherichia coli (strain XL1-Blue; Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com). Galactose at 2% (w/v) was included in the growth medium to induce expression of genes in yeast that were under the control of the GAL1 promoter of the pYES2 plasmid (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). For the yeast strain INVSc2 (MATα his3-Δ1 ura3-52; Invitrogen), only supplemental His was required for growth of transformed cultures. The pmr1 and ade1 mutants in the diploid BY4743 strain (MATa/a his3Δ1/his3Δ1 leu2Δ0/leu2Δ0 lys2Δ0/LYS2 MET15/met15Δ0 ura3Δ0/ura3Δ0) were grown in synthetic complete medium (2.5 μm basal Mn2+ added) and supplemented with His, Lys, Leu, Trp and adenine (CITATION). In the absence of the wild-type BY4743 strain, an ade1 mutant of this strain grown in medium that contained adenine was used as a control for the pmr1 mutant. Assays for uptake of Mn2+ into yeast cells were undertaken according to previously described procedures (CITATION), except that samples were digested using the method for plant samples as outlined under ‘Elemental analysis’. The SIgNAL web site (http://signal.salk.edu) was searched to identify Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) lines that possessed a T-DNA insertion in the coding region of the AtMTP11 gene. One such line was identified (SALK_025271) with a T-DNA inserted after the 32nd base of the second exon and segregating seed obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre (CITATION). Primers for PCR were designed using the SIgNAL website (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.html) to allow plants that contained the T-DNA insertion to be distinguished from sibling plants that lacked the insertion (primers 1, 2 and 3; Table S1). Seedlings were allowed to self-fertilize and the progeny were screened by PCR to identify lines homozygous for the T-DNA inserted in AtMTP11 and homozygous sister lines that lacked the insertion (wild type). Seedlings were grown on agar medium with all essential mineral nutrients supplied (including 4.5 μm added basal Mn2+) in vertically orientated Petri dishes (CITATION) in a growth cabinet set at 19°C with a 16-h light (420 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) and an 8-h dark period. Seeds were planted in the Petri dishes along a horizontal line to maintain an equivalent distance from the lights for all seedlings. To assess the effect that various treatments had on shoot growth and Mn2+ concentrations, three to five replicate Petri dishes were prepared for each genotype at each Mn2+ supply. To assess the effects of Mn2+ deficiency, seedlings were grown on agar medium supplemented with all essential nutrients, except that the basal Mn2+ was omitted. To assess the effect that excess Zn2+ and Cu2+ had on growth, a preliminary experiment was undertaken to establish the approximate concentrations at which each metal reduced growth by 50%. Subsequently, a more detailed experiment was undertaken on the agar medium supplemented with 0.4 mm ZnSO4 or 30 μm CuSO4 in addition to the other essential mineral nutrients. For the various experiments, Petri dishes were arranged as replicate blocks in the growth chamber and treatments randomized within the blocks. After 20 days’ growth, shoots were harvested for yield and Mn analysis. The expression levels of four AtMTP genes in Arabidopsis were analysed by qRT-PCR using procedures based on those described by CITATION. Primers (Table S1; primers 8–15) were used to amplify fragments from the various AtMTP cDNAs. Data were acquired at 80°C; for analysis of AtMTP8 expression the denaturation temperature was lowered from 94 to 85°C, which prevented the amplification of a non-specific product. AtMTP11 expression was analysed with primer pair 14/15, except for the RNAi lines where expression was analysed with primer pair 16/17 to avoid targeting the same region of the gene used to construct the hairpin vector (Table S1). In all cases, single products were observed and their identities confirmed by sequencing. Expression of a cyclophilin gene (GenBank accession number NP_180557; primers 18 and 19, Table S1) was used as an internal control for each sample. Data were analysed by comparative quantification using rotor-gene software ver. 5.0 or 6.0 (Corbett Research, http://www.corbettlifescience.com) and expression of the AtMTP genes was expressed relative to the expression of the cyclophilin reference gene. RNA was isolated from wild-type Columbia plants and cDNA was prepared as described by CITATION. The full coding region of AtMTP11 was amplified by PCR from the cDNA (primers 4 and 5, Table S1). The inclusion of BamHI and NotI sites in the primers allowed the PCR product to be cloned directionally into the BamHI and NotI sites of pYES2 to yield pAtMTP11-YES2. Homologous recombination in yeast was used to generate an in-frame fusion of green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the C-terminal of AtMTP11. The GFP coding region derived from the plasmid pCBJ4 (CITATION) was amplified using primers that contained, in addition to GFP-specific sequence, (i) sequence of the 3′ end of AtMTP11 that lacked a stop codon but was in frame with the 5′ end of GFP (forward primer 6 with AtMTP11 sequence underlined, Table S1); and (ii) sequence of the 5′ end of the CYC1 terminator region from pYES2 (reverse primer 7 with terminator region underlined, Table S1). The PCR product was combined with pAtMTP11-YES2 that had been linearized with NotI and the mixture used to transform yeast. The NotI site in pAtMTP11-YES2 is downstream of the AtMTP11 stop codon, and only transformed yeast forming a reconstituted plasmid that incorporated the GFP through homologous recombination could grow on selective medium (minus uracil). Yeast colonies growing on selective medium were screened for GFP fluorescence, which confirmed the presence of a correct in-frame fusion to AtMTP11. The plasmid (pAtMTP11–GFP–YES2) was isolated from yeast and amplified in E. coli. To construct a plasmid for expression of the fusion protein in plants, pAtMTP11–GFP–YES2 was digested with KpnI and XbaI, and the fragment that contained AtMTP11–GFP was inserted into the KpnI and XbaI sites of the expression cassette pART7 (CITATION) to yield pAtMTP11–GFP–ART7. Digestion of pAtMTP11–GFP–ART7 with NotI liberated a fragment that contained AtMTP11–GFP flanked by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and ocs terminator. This fragment was inserted into the NotI site of the binary vector pPLEX502 (CITATION) to yield pAtMTP11–GFP–PLEX502. To generate an N-terminal fusion of GFP to AtMTP11, primer pair 20/21 was used to amplify the AtMTP11 coding region from pAtMTP11-YES2. The resulting product was digested with KpnI and XbaI and inserted into the corresponding sites of pART7 to yield pAtMTP11–ART7. A GFP-coding region was amplified from an ShMTP8–GFP construct in pART7 (CITATION) using primer pair 22/23 and the product was digested with EcoRI and NcoI. The resulting fragment was inserted into the EcoRI/NcoI sites of pAtMTP11–ART7 to yield pGFP–AtMTP11–ART7. An RNAi hairpin vector targeting the AtMTP11 gene was constructed using the pHANNIBAL vector (CITATION) and primer pair 24/25, which incorporated appropriate restriction sites for cloning into the vector. Expression vectors were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens and used to transform Arabidopsis by the floral-dip procedure (CITATION). GFP expression in yeast and plant tissues was detected using a Leica SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope. Plant samples dried overnight at 70°C were weighed and then digested at 120°C for approximately 1 h in 1.0 ml of a solution consisting of nine parts nitric acid and one part perchloric acid. After the temperature was increased to 170°C and the samples incubated for a further 1 h, the solution was cooled, made up to 10 ml with de-ionized water, then analysed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrophotometry. Yeast microsomal membrane vesicles were prepared as described previously (CITATION). The effect of metals on the proton gradient was determined by an acridine orange fluorescence quench assay, performed essentially as described by CITATION. Membrane vesicles were added to a reaction buffer in a stirred cuvette containing 175 mm mannitol, 25 mm HEPES–BTP pH 7.0, 28 mm HCl–BTP pH 7.0, 0.2 mm sodium azide, 0.2 mm sodium orthovanadate and 5 μm acridine orange (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), incubated at 25°C. A proton gradient was generated by energization of the H+-ATPase with the addition of 3 mm ATP and 3 mm MgSO4. Formation of the pH gradient was observed by monitoring the fluorescence quenching of acridine orange at excitation 495 nm and emission 540 nm, using a spectrofluorimeter. After a steady-state proton gradient was generated, 200 μm metal salts were added and fluorescence recovery was measured. For each metal, assays were conducted in duplicate or triplicate on each of three independently prepared membrane vesicles. Tobacco BY-2 culture cells were maintained in MS media as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Typically, BY-2 cells were sub-cultured twice a month in MS agar media, or twice a week in liquid MS media. Protoplasts were prepared from 3-day-old BY-2 cells via the following steps: (i) BY-2 cells were incubated with enzyme solution (1% Cellulase Onozuka-RS, 0.05% pectinase and 0.5% driselase) in TEX buffer (1× MS salt, 500 mg l−1 MES, 750 mg l−1 CaCl2, 250 mg l−1 NH4NO3, 13.7% sucrose pH 5.7) for 1–2 h; (ii) generated protoplasts were then washed three times with electroporation buffer (13.7% sucrose, 2.4 g l−1 HEPES, 6 g l−1 KCl, 600 mg l−1 CaCl2 pH 7.2) and centrifuged at 80 g for 15 min at room temperature; (iii) protoplasts were finally re-suspended in same volume of electroporation buffer. For transient expression, 40 μg DNA of each construct in pairs were incubated with 0.5 ml protoplast suspension in an electroporation cuvette of 4 mm gap (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com) for 10 min before being electroporated with a Gene Pulser Xcell electroporator (Bio-Rad) set at 1000 μF and 130 V. After electroporation, the transfected BY-2 protoplasts were incubated in TEX buffer for an additional 16–20 h before observation for fluorescent signals by confocal microscopy. Confocal fluorescent images were collected using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 system. Images were processed using Adobe photoshop software as described previously (CITATION). All experiments were repeated at least two to three times, with similar results. Mature leek plants (A. ampeloprasum ) were obtained from a local supermarket. Biolistic bombardment experiments were performed using a Bio-Rad Biolistic Particle Delivery System Model PDS-1000/He (Bio-Rad). Preparation of microcarriers for bombardment was carried out by precipitating 0.5 μg plasmid DNA onto gold particles (0.6 μm diameter; Bio-Rad) using 0.1 m spermidine (Sigma). DNA-coated gold particles were pelleted by centrifugation, washed with ethanol, re-centrifuged, then re-suspended in 50 μl ethanol. Slices of leek leaves 1.0 cm2 were excised 5–10 cm from the base of mature plants, where the epidermal cells were usually 300–500 μm long. Several leaf slices were rested on moist tissue near the centre of 100 × 15-mm Petri dishes, with the inward curving side of the leaf facing upward. Dishes were placed beneath the nozzle apparatus, approximately 8 cm from the disc holding the DNA-coated gold particles. After pressure in the delivery chamber was reduced to an 88 kPa vacuum, samples were bombarded with gold particles driven by 6000 kPa helium gas. Treatments to identify AtMTP11–GFP-tagged organelles as either PVCs or Golgi vesicles included incubation in either 20 μm wortmannin or 50 μm brefeldin A for 30–120 min. Confocal images were collected using a Leica TCS SP2 system and processed using Adobe photoshop software, as described previously (CITATION). Statistically significant differences were established by an analysis of the variance and treatment means compared by LSD (P < 0.05) using genstat (8th edn, VSN International, http://www.vsni.co.uk).
