!~ABS~! Ubiquitination plays important roles in plant hormone signal transduction. We show that the RING finger E3 ligase, Arabidopsis thaliana SALT- AND DROUGHT-INDUCED RING FINGER1 (SDIR1), is involved in abscisic acid (ABA)-related stress signal transduction. SDIR1 is expressed in all tissues of Arabidopsis and is upregulated by drought and salt stress, but not by ABA. Plants expressing the ProSDIR1–β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct confirmed strong induction of GUS expression in stomatal guard cells and leaf mesophyll cells under drought stress. The green fluorescent protein–SDIR1 fusion protein is colocalized with intracellular membranes. We demonstrate that SDIR1 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase and that the RING finger conservation region is required for its activity. Overexpression of SDIR1 leads to ABA hypersensitivity and ABA-associated phenotypes, such as salt hypersensitivity in germination, enhanced ABA-induced stomatal closing, and enhanced drought tolerance. The expression levels of a number of key ABA and stress marker genes are altered both in SDIR1 overexpression and sdir1-1 mutant plants. Cross-complementation experiments showed that the ABA-INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5), ABRE BINDING FACTOR3 (ABF3), and ABF4 genes can rescue the ABA-insensitive phenotype of the sdir1-1 mutant, whereas SDIR1 could not rescue the abi5-1 mutant. This suggests that SDIR1 acts upstream of those basic leucine zipper family genes. Our results indicate that SDIR1 is a positive regulator of ABA signaling.
!~RES~! In order to identify stress-related Arabidopsis single subunit E3 ligase genes, in silico gene expression of Arabidopsis RING finger genes was analyzed in several publicly available stress-related microarray studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Among 387 RING finger proteins (including the PHD family) and 40 U-box subfamily proteins analyzed from Arabidopsis, SDIR1, a C3H2C3 RING finger gene (At3g55530), attracted our interest. Microarray data indicated that its transcript was induced to high levels after salt and drought stress treatment, and this was later confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 1A ). The microarray results suggested that SDIR1 was involved in stress response. [[FIGURE]] To verify the microarray SDIR1 expression results and to check whether SDIR1 expression is regulated by other abiotic stresses, 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were subjected to different stress treatments and RNA was prepared for RNA gel blot analysis. As shown in Figure 1A, the transcript level of SDIR1 was upregulated by drought and NaCl, but not by ABA. SDIR1 expression increased by approximately fivefold at the 12-h point of the drought treatment course. RT-PCR analysis detected SDIR1 in all tissues of Arabidopsis, including leaves, stems, roots, siliques, and flowers (Figure 1B). To determine the expression pattern in detail, we analyzed the expression of the SDIR1 promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion. This consisted of a 1.3-kb DNA fragment upstream of the SDIR1 ATG start codon fused with the GUS gene, transforming the construct into wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia). Histochemical staining revealed GUS activity at all developmental stages tested, from seed germination to flowering (Figure 1C). This confirmed that SDIR1 is expressed at all developmental stages and throughout the Arabidopsis plant. GUS expression was first detected in 1-d-old germinated seeds with stronger GUS staining in the emerging radicle (Figure 1Ca). GUS expression was also detected at the root tip and in the root hair differentiation zone of 2- and 3-d-old seedlings (Figures 1Cb and 1Cc). At 4 d, GUS expression was detected throughout the plant, with the exception of the hypocotyl (Figure 1Cd). GUS activity was also observed in the flowers, with stronger GUS staining observed in pollen grains (Figures 1Ce and 1Cf). Interestingly, strong GUS staining was also observed in guard cells of both young (data not shown) and mature leaves under normal growth conditions (Figure 1Cg). Once we determined that SDIR1 is upregulated by drought and NaCl (Figure 1A), we next tested whether the SDIR1 promoter is responsible for this upregulation. The SDIR1 promoter–GUS reporter construct provided a useful tool for identifying the promoter required for the response to drought and NaCl. GUS activity increased throughout the plant and especially in the roots after 5 h in drought conditions and 3 h of 300 mM NaCl treatment (Figure 1Ch). A substantial increase in GUS activity was also detected not only in guard cells but also in entire leaves after drought treatment (Figures 1Ci, control, and 1Cj, drought-treated). SDIR1 encodes a protein of 273 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 30.18 kD (Figure 2A ). Two putative transmembrane domains were predicted by the SMART program (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/smart/set_mode.cgi?GENOMIC=1). The two domains were located at the N terminus of the SDIR1 protein, between 35 and 52 amino acids and 62 and 81 amino acids, respectively. To determine whether two putative transmembrane domains predicted in SDIR1 are functional, the myc-SDIR1 full-length protein and a truncated form, myc-SDIR1ΔTM, with the transmembrane domain deleted (ΔTM; Figure 2A) were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells. Cell fractionation and protein gel blot assays showed that both myc-SDIR1 and myc-SDIR1ΔTM are present in total cell extract (Figure 2B). The full-length myc-SDIR1 was detected exclusively in the microsomal fraction but not in the soluble fraction. The major part of myc-SDIR1ΔTM was detected in the soluble fraction. However, a small amount was detected in the membrane fraction, which could be due to a trace of unground cell/tissue contamination in the microsomal fraction (Figure 2B). The association of myc-SDIR1 with the intracellular membranes was further confirmed by resuspension in different detergent-free and detergent-containing buffers for extensive cell fractionation analysis. SDIR1 was always detected only in the microsomal fractions and removed from the microsomal fractions by detergent treatment (Figure 2C). Therefore, we concluded that SDIR1 is associated with the intracellular membranes. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the association of SDIR1 with the intracellular membranes, we checked the subcellular localization of the green fluorescent protein (GFP)–SDIR1 fusion protein. We constructed a GFP-SDIR1 fusion under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. To verify whether the GFP tag affects the function of the SDIR1 protein, both the GFP-SDIR1 fusion and SDIR1 were introduced into Arabidopsis. Both constructs exhibited the same phenotypes, such as ABA hypersensitivity, demonstrating that the GFP-SDIR1 fusion is a functional protein (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells demonstrated that GFP alone was found in both the cytosol and the nucleus, whereas GFP-SDIR1 was found densely localized in intracellular membranes, probably (plasma) membrane-bound in cells, as GFP-SDIR1ΔTM accumulates in the nucleus compared with GFP-SDIR1 (Figure 2D). The plasmolysis results indicated that GFP-SDIR1 localized in intracellular components rather than in cell walls. This is consistent with the predicted transmembrane domains in the N terminus of SDIR1 (Figure 2A). Previous research showed that RING finger–containing proteins can function as E3 ligases (CITATION; CITATION). The C terminus of SDIR1 contains a conserved C3H2C3-type RING domain (211 to 251 amino acids) comprising conserved Cys and His residues (Figures 2A and 3A ). Therefore, we speculated that SDIR1 also had E3 ligase activity. To test this hypothesis, we produced SDIR1 in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with maltose binding protein (MBP) and affinity-purified MBP-SDIR1 from the soluble fraction. In the presence of wheat (Triticum aestivum) E1 and a human E2 (UBCh5b), ubiquitination activity was observed in the presence of purified MBP-SDIR1 (Figure 3B). Due to the presence of crude extract of E1 and E2 in the reaction, the ubiquitination ladders detected by nickel–horseradish peroxidase (for detecting His-ubiquitin) could be any proteins, including SDIR1 and MBP tag, in the reaction mixture. Furthermore, the anti-MBP blot analysis indicated that at least MBP-SDIR1 was ubiquitinated. However, in the absence of E1 and E2 (Figure 3B, second and third lanes from the left), no polyubiquitination was detected, indicating that SDIR1 has E3 ligase activity. [[FIGURE]] The RING motif is essential for the E3 ligase activity of RING finger proteins (CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether an intact RING finger domain was required for SDIR1 E3 ligase activity. A single amino acid substitution allele was produced by mutagenizing His-234 to Tyr (H234Y), as this mutation might disrupt the RING domain (Figure 3A). An in vitro ubiquitination assay indicated that the E3 ligase activity was completely abolished in the H234Y mutant of SDIR1 (Figure 3B, first lane from the right), demonstrating that an intact RING domain is required for SDIR1 E3 ligase activity. Analysis of the full-length cDNA and the genomic sequences revealed that SDIR1 is composed of eight exons and seven introns (Figure 4A ). The gene is located on chromosome III of the Arabidopsis genome. To discover the in vivo functions of SDIR1, we applied reverse genetics and overexpression approaches. First, the loss-of-function mutant of the SDIR1 gene, two independent T-DNA insertion lines, SALK_052702 (named sdir1-1) and SALK_114361 (named sdir1-2), were identified from the ABRC seed stock center. The T-DNA insertion positions are illustrated in Figure 4A, and homozygous mutants were verified by diagnostic PCR using SDIR1 gene-specific and T-DNA border primers (Figure 4B). Both sdir1-1 and sdir1-2 null alleles were confirmed by RT-PCR and RNA gel blot analysis for loss of SDIR1 expression (Figures 4C and 4D). On Murashige and Skoog (MS) growth medium, no obvious differences were observed between the wild type and the two SDIR1 mutants at the germination stage (data not shown). Both sdir1-1 and sdir1-2 showed identical phenotypes, exhibiting a longer primary root at later growth stages compared with wild-type plants but similar to the wild type in the number of lateral roots and aerial parts (Figure 4D). The difference in primary root length between the wild type and mutants was observed over the entire growth time course (Figure 4E). To confirm whether the phenotypes of the sdir1 mutants were indeed due to lost SDIR1 function, 35S-SDIR1 was only overexpressed in the sdir1-1 mutant, since both sdir1-1 and sdir1-2 are null alleles with the same phenotype. All phenotypes, such as root length and NaCl and ABA insensitivity, were rescued in complementation lines (see below for details and Supplemental Figure 2 online). Thus, the sdir1-1 null mutant was used for all further phenotype comparisons and cross-complementary analysis. [[FIGURE]] The function of SDIR1 was further investigated by analysis of SDIR1-overexpressing phenotypes. The coding region of SDIR1 was introduced into the transgenic vector under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and into wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia) to produced transgenic lines overexpressing SDIR1. Five independent T3 homozygous lines were recovered, and lines with high levels of SDIR1 expression confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis showed similar phenotypes (data not shown). Similar to the sdir1 mutants, no obvious differences were observed between the wild type and 35S-SDIR1 at the germination stage on MS medium. The 35S-SDIR1 plants exhibited shorter primary roots and slightly smaller aerial parts than wild-type plants at seedling growth stages on plates (Figures 4D and 4E), while no obvious differences in aerial parts were observed on soil-grown plants. The opposite phenotypes of sdir1 and SDIR1 overexpression plants indicate that SDIR1 is involved in root growth control under normal growth conditions. Salts inhibit germination and seedling growth in a concentration-dependent manner (CITATION). Since SDIR1 is a salt-induced gene (Figures 1A and 1Ch), it is probable that SDIR1 plays a role in plant responses to salt. The 35S-SDIR1 transgenic and sdir1 mutant seeds were germinated on medium containing 100 mM NaCl, and differences were observed at both germination and postgerminative growth stages. Seeds of both mutants germinated much earlier than in the wild type. After 2 d, only 29% of wild-type seeds germinated, but ∼70% of sdir1-1 and 66% of sdir1-2 seeds germinated (Figure 5A ). Seedlings of both mutants also grew faster than wild-type seedlings, with longer primary roots, bigger cotyledons, and earlier true leaf emergence in 97 and 96%, respectively, of sdir1-1 and sdir1-2 seedlings (Figure 5B). Germination of 35S-SDIR1 seeds was much delayed; at 3 d, only 52% of 35S-SDIR1 seeds germinated, but nearly 100% of wild-type seeds germinated (Figure 5A). In fact, cotyledon greening and expansion, as well as root growth of 35S-SDIR1, were also inhibited at the postgermination stage, and at 7 d, only 21% of the seedlings had small green cotyledons (Figure 5B). Similar results were observed when plants were grown in medium with 100 mM KCl, while no obvious difference was detected when 5, 10, and 15 mM LiCl was added (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] To distinguish whether SDIR1 is involved in salt-specific or general osmotic effects, 35S-SDIR1 transgenic and sdir1-1 mutant plants were germinated and grown on MS medium with or without 100 mM NaCl and 200 mM mannitol (an osmotic agent; double concentration of NaCl tested) (Figure 5C). The growth of 35S-SDIR1 plants was strongly inhibited compared with wild-type plants and sdir1-1 mutants upon NaCl treatment (Figure 5C). However, no different effects among 35S-SDIR1, wild-type, and sdir1-1 mutant plants were observed on plates containing mannitol (Figure 5C). These results suggest that the response to salt is ionic rather than osmotic. Because SDIR1 is induced by drought (Figures 1A and 1C), it is expected that the overexpression and mutant plants have altered responses to water deficit conditions. To test this, 1-week-old 35S-SDIR1 and sdir1-1 mutant plants, as well as wild-type control plants, were transplanted to growth on soil for an additional 2 weeks. Thereafter, plants were not watered for 18 d to induce drought stress. The plants were then rehydrated and photographed after 1 d (Figure 6A ). Before rewatering, most of the wild-type plants and all sdir1-1 mutant plants were withered, but the 35S-SDIR1 plants exhibited continued survival and growth. After rewatering, the 35S-SDIR1 plants exhibited a high survival rate (95%), whereas the corresponding survival rate was 50% for wild-type plants, and none of the sdir1-1 mutant plants survived (Figure 6A). Overexpression of SDIR1 enhanced drought tolerance, while SDIR1 gene knockout reduced drought tolerance. Thus, these results suggest that SDIR1 plays an important role in plant drought response. [[FIGURE]] The altered drought tolerance of SDIR1 overexpression and sdir1-1 plants could be attributed, at least in part, to changes in transpiration rate. Stomata control gas exchange and water evaporation. Leaves from 35S-SDIR1, wild-type, and sdir1-1 plants grown in soil were examined to determine stomatal aperture status. Stomatal apertures were smaller on 35S-SDIR1 leaves compared with wild-type leaves, while stomata on sdir1-1 leaves were almost fully open (Figures 6B and 6C). As shown in Figure 6B, 67% of wild-type stomata and 89% of sdir1-1 stomata but only 13% of 35S-SDIR1 stomata were open (width:length ratio of stomatal pore > 0.2 is considered open). Consistent with these results, the fresh weight loss of detached rosette leaves in 35S-SDIR1 transgenic plants was <25%, as opposed to 42 and 65% for wild-type and sdir1-1 plants, respectively (Figure 6D). This suggests that during dehydration, the stomata of 35S-SDIR1 plants can respond to water deficit better than wild-type or sdir1-1 plants. Stomatal closure is a key ABA-controlled process that determines the rate of transpiration under water deficit conditions (CITATION). To investigate whether SDIR1 is involved in ABA-related stomatal closure, we treated leaves of three genotypes with ABA to analyze stomatal aperture. Indeed, treating the leaf epidermis of 35S-SDIR1 plants with ABA caused complete closure of stomata; the effect was not so pronounced in wild-type and sdir1-1 plants (Figure 6E). The sdir1-1 mutant guard cells clearly have an impaired response to ABA, whereas the guard cells of 35S-SDIR1 plants show a remarkable increase in response to ABA. Thus, SDIR1 may play a crucial role in ABA-mediated guard cell control. ABA plays an important role in regulating plant responses to different stresses (CITATION). Salt and drought responses in plants are triggered (at least in part) by increased levels of the phytohormone ABA, which leads to the activation of a series of ABA-dependent responses (CITATION). Nearly all ABA-deficient (aba) and ABA-insensitive (abi) mutants exhibit salt insensitivity during germination and are susceptible to drought because of impaired stomatal aperture regulation (e.g., abi1 and abi2), while plants overexpressing the ABA response pathway gene, such as ABRE BINDING FACTOR3 (ABF3) and ABF4, are tolerant to drought and hypersensitive to salt (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Inhibitory experiments of seed germination have provided useful insights into components of ABA signaling (CITATION). To determine whether SDIR1 overexpression and sdir1-1 affect ABA response, 35S-SDIR1 transgenic and sdir1-1 plants were germinated and grown on MS medium with ABA to determine sensitivity. In the presence of 1 μM ABA, cotyledon greening/expansion and root growth were severely inhibited in 35S-SDIR1 transgenic plants (28% of their cotyledons expanded and turned green). By contrast, 88% of the sdir1-1 mutant plants showed expanded and green cotyledons. Wild-type plants showed an intermediate phenotype, with 62% of the plants having expanded and green cotyledons (Figure 7A ). To test whether the effect was dosage-dependent, various concentrations of ABA were added to the medium. The ABA-hypersensitive response of 35S-SDIR1 occurred at concentrations as low as 0.5 μM ABA (Figures 7B to 7D). When the ABA concentration was >2 μM, the growth of 35S-SDIR1 plants was arrested completely after germination and none of the transgenic seedlings developed true leaves at 8 d (Figure 7B). At all concentrations tested, 35S-SDIR1 transgenic plants were hypersensitive to ABA at both germination and postgerminative growth stages (Figures 7C and 7D). The sdir1-1 mutant plants were less sensitive to ABA than the wild-type plants, and the insensitivity could be reversed by SDIR1 overexpression (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). The sensitivity occurred in a dosage-dependent manner (Figures 7B to 7D). No obvious differences were observed when all three groups of plants were germinated on MS plates without ABA in early growth stages (Figures 7B to 7D). It can be concluded that 35S-SDIR1 plants are hypersensitive, while sdir1-1 plants possess reduced sensitivity to ABA. These results indicate that SDIR1 is involved in the ABA response. [[FIGURE]] Downstream genes directly or indirectly regulated by SDIR1 may be responsible for ABA sensitivity in 35S-SDIR1 and sdir1-1 plants. To investigate the roles of SDIR1 in transcriptional regulation in plants, 35S-SDIR1 and sdir1-1 plants were treated or mock treated with ABA to determine the expression of several genes in different groups responsive to ABA signaling. For group I, the PLDα1 gene encodes a phospholipase Dα, and PLDα1 and its product, phosphatidic acid, regulate either ABI1 or GPA1 to control stomatal closure and opening in the ABA signaling pathway (CITATION; CITATION). When plants were treated with ABA, the induction pattern showed no obvious changes for the PLDα1 gene or the GPA1 gene among the three types of plants, while the expression of the ABI1 gene, a negative regulator of the ABA response pathway in Arabidopsis, did not show any clear change in SDIR1 overexpression plants but was reduced threefold in the sdir1-1 mutant compared with the wild type after a 10-h treatment. Two other PP2C family members that encode phosphatase, At PP2C and ABI2, have been detected, but no obvious differences were found in either overexpression or mutant plants (CITATION) (group I in Figure 8 ). We also tested the nuclear genes, including the ABRE binding transcription factors ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4 (group II in Figure 8). After the 10-h treatment with ABA, ABI5 and ABF4 levels increased only slightly, 1.5- and 1.3-fold, respectively, in 35S-SDIR1 plants, while almost no change was observed in ABF3 expression. However, ABI5 and ABF4 clearly decreased by ∼3- and 10-fold, respectively, in the sdir1-1 plants. In contrast with ABI5 and ABF4, ABF3 levels in sdir1-1 decreased only slightly, 1.3-fold, after 10 h of treatment with ABA. The most notable reduction occurred in ABF4 expression (Figure 8). This suggests that SDIR1 plays a role, directly or indirectly, in controlling the transcription of ABA signaling pathway components. [[FIGURE]] For group III (Figure 8), the RD29A gene is a drought-, cold-, and ABA-inducible gene that contains dehydration-responsive elements (DREs) and ABA-responsive elements in its promoter region (CITATION). However, we could not find any significant differences in RD29A gene expression between 35S-SDIR1 and wild-type plants. Only a slight reduction, 0.7-fold compared with the wild type, was observed in sdir1-1 plants after a long (10-h) treatment. Similar expression patterns were also detected in the other dehydration-responsive gene, RD22 (decreased by 0.7-fold at 4 h and by 0.6-fold at 10 h compared with the wild type), which encodes a protein similar to the nonstorage seed protein, USP, of Vicia faba. Another ABA-responsive gene, RAB18, encodes a dehydrin, a member of a large family of proteins induced in response to low temperature and drought in both vegetative tissues and seeds, and was also slightly reduced in sidr1-1 (decreased by 0.7-fold at both 4 and 10 h compared with the wild type) (CITATION). Expression of Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS1), a rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of Pro, whose mRNA is induced by drought, salinity, and ABA, is reduced by ∼50% in abi1-1 compared with the wild type (CITATION). Likewise, in our study, the sdir1-1 plants had reduced levels of P5CS1 transcript, especially at later treatment stages (decreased by 0.7-fold at 4 h and by 0.6-fold at 10 h compared with the wild type). Different expression patterns were detected for ADH1, which was downregulated in 35S-SDIR1 overexpression plants (decreased by 0.8-fold at both 4 and 10 h compared with the wild type). ADH1 encodes an alcohol dehydrogenase, and its expression is induced by ABA (CITATION). This result is consistent with the reduction of ADH1 expression in plants overexpressing two bZIP transcription factors, ABF3 and ABF4 (CITATION). Our results indicate that SDIR1 acts upstream of bZIP family transcription factors that mediate ABA signaling. Transgenic plants overexpressing SDIR1 are hypersensitive to ABA, while sdir1-1 plants are ABA-insensitive. These phenotypes are similar to ABI5 overexpression and abi5-1 mutant plants (CITATION; CITATION). Similar phenotypes were also observed in overexpression and mutant plants for two other ABRE binding factors, ABF3 and ABF4 (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether SDIR1 acts in the same or a different pathway to ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4, we generated sdir1-1 transgenic lines expressing ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4 under the control of a 35S promoter. The expressed transgenes were confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). The sdir1-1 mutant plants are insensitive to ABA at both germination and the postgerminative growth stage when placed on ABA-infused plates. Overexpression of the ABI5 gene in the sdir1-1 mutant background resulted in different levels of rescue with the ABA-insensitive phenotype. Germination and postgerminative growth varied across different lines. Some were similar to the wild type, having incomplete expansion of green cotyledons and short main roots, indicative of ABA-sensitive recovery. Others showed arrested growth at the seedling stage, suggesting more sensitivity to ABA than wild-type plants (Figure 9A ; see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C online). This may be due to overexpression of the gene under the control of the 35S promoter. The different expression levels of transgenes may contribute to the variation in response to ABA. Significant differences in ABI5 transcript levels in sdir1-1/ABI5 lines 1.2 and 3.2 were detected. Line 1.2 had greater sensitivity to ABA as well as higher ABI5 transcript levels compared with line 3.2 (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Similar variations were observed in different sdir1-1/ABF3 and sdir1-1/ABF4 transgenic lines (Figures 9C and 9D; see Supplemental Figure 4A online), but after analyzing >10 lines of each construct, no severe arrest transgenic lines were observed that were similar to sdir1-1/ABI5 line 1.2. It seems that ABI5 overexpression in sdir1-1 confers more ABA sensitivity at the postgerminative growth stage than at the germination stage. For ABI5 overexpression in sdir1-1 lines, at 2 μM ABA, the germination ratio was not obviously decreased compared with sdir1-1, while postgerminative growth, such as cotyledon greening/expansion and the development of true leaves, was inhibited more severely (Figure 9A; see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C online). Nevertheless, ABF3 and ABF4 overexpression in sdir1-1 is involved in both germination and postgermination stages, since the obvious inhibition of germination and postgerminative growth can be detected on both 1 and 2 μM ABA (Figure 9A; see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C online). This is consistent with previous reports that those bZIP transcription factors have both redundant and distinct functions in ABA response (CITATION). However, under normal growth conditions, neither ABI5 and ABF3 nor ABF4 can totally restore the root phenotype of the sdir1-1 mutant (Figures 9A, 9C, and 9D), which indicates that SDIR1 may affect root length through pathways other than those controlled by bZIP genes. Therefore, we surmise that ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4 can rescue the ABA insensitivity of sdir1-1 in different aspects. [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4 can rescue the ABA insensitivity of sdir1-1, which indicates that SDIR1 may act upstream of these bZIP transcription factors. We conducted further studies to exclude the possibility that SDIR1 functions in parallel with ABI5, ABF3, and ABF4. To do this, we transformed abi5-1 mutant plants with a 35S-SDIR1 construct and generated abi5-1 transgenic lines carrying a 35S-SDIR1 transgene and confirmed them by RNA gel blot analysis (see Supplemental Figure 4D online). All abi5-1 transgenic lines showed the same phenotype as abi5-1 mutants on MS plates and remained insensitive to 1 μM ABA, overcoming the ABA inhibition phenotype (Figure 9B). The effect was similar with 2 and 3 μM ABA treatment (data not shown). This demonstrated that ABI5 acted downstream, rather than in parallel with SDIR1. We also created SDIR1 overexpression transgenic plants for abf3 or abf4 mutant backgrounds. Since the ABA phenotypes of both mutants are not obvious under our experimental conditions, it is difficult to analyze the cross-complementation phenotype, and the data are not presented.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Columbia and Wassilewskija were used for this study. Seeds were surface-sterilized with 10% bleach and 0.01% Triton X-100 and washed three times with sterile water. Sterile seeds were suspended in 0.15% agarose and plated on MS medium plus 1.5% sucrose. Plates were stratified in darkness for 2 to 4 d at 4°C and then transferred to a tissue culture room at 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. After 2 to 3 weeks, seedlings were potted in soil and placed in a growth chamber at 22°C and 70% RH under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. The MS medium was supplemented with 1.5% sucrose and, unless described in Results, with ABA, NaCl, and mannitol as needed. To test germination, seeds were collected at the same time they were used. For root growth measurements, plants were germinated and grown on vertical plates. Transgenic plants carrying constitutively expressing transgenes were generated. To produce 35S-SDIR1 plants, an 838-bp EcoRI-SpeI fragment containing the SDIR1 (The Arabidopsis Information Resource locus At3g55530) cDNA was cloned into the vector pBA002, in which transgene expression is under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. For the SDIR1 promoter and GUS fusion construct, a 5′ flanking sequence (a 1.3-kb promoter region just upstream of the ATG start codon of SDIR1) was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR and verified by sequencing. The PCR fragment was cloned into the HindIII-BamHI site of binary vector pBI101.1 to obtain a transcriptional fusion of the SDIR1 promoter and the GUS coding sequence. 35S-myc-ABI5 was prepared by inserting the PCR-amplified coding region of ABI5 fused with MYC in the N-terminus of ABI5 to the pCAMBIA1300-221 vector under the control of the 35S promoter. The cDNA clone of ABF was amplified by PCR, and 35S-HA-ABF3 and ABF4 were generated by inserting the coding region of ABF fused with the hemagglutinin tag to the pCAMBIA1300-221 vector. Transformation of Arabidopsis was performed by the vacuum infiltration method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains EHA105 and GV3101. For the phenotypic analysis, T3 or T4 homozygous lines were used. T3 homozygous lines were used for detailed analysis. T2 seeds were germinated on MS plates containing 6 μg/mL BASTA for pBA002 constructs, 50 μg/mL kanamycin for pBI101.1, and 20 μg/mL hygromycin for pCAMBIA1300-221, and the resistant plants were transferred to soil to obtain homozygous T3 seeds. Two independent lines of homozygous T4 plants containing a single insertion of each construct were used for detailed analysis. Two-week-old seedlings grown on agar plates were treated with NaCl, ABA, and drought. Total RNA was isolated using the Qiagen RNeasy kit, and 10 μg (except for Figure 1, where the RNA amount is indicated in the figure legend) from each sample was separated on 1.2% (w/v) agarose formaldehyde gels and transferred to Hybond-N nylon membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). To specifically detect the SDIR1 transcript, blots were probed with a PCR fragment encoding SDIR1 labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using a Ready-Primed labeling kit (Amersham International). The probe for SDIR1 consisted of the entire open reading frame of this gene. Other transcripts were labeled by random priming and were detected by hybridization to exon-specific PCR fragments corresponding to the following segments of the coding sequences: PLDα1, nucleotides 1003–1761; GPA1, nucleotides 81–733; At PP2C, nucleotides 546–1334; ABI1, nucleotides 444–1228; ABI2, nucleotides 36–575; P5CS1, nucleotides 1059–1648; ADH1, nucleotides 202–710; and RD22, nucleotides 277–757. The ABI5 probe was prepared by SmaI digestion from cDNA excluding the conserved bZIP domain to generate 782 bp of the 5′ coding region. ABF3 and ABF4 transcripts were detected by hybridization to cDNA clones as described by CITATION. The RD29A and RAB18 probes were prepared as described previously (CITATION). The relative expression level of each sample was quantified by Quantity One software (Bio-Rad). Values below each blot in the figures represent the ratio of target gene to rRNA. To examine the expression of SDIR1 by RT-PCR, DNase I–treated total RNA (5 μg) was denatured and subjected to reverse transcription reaction using SuperScript II (200 units per reaction; Invitrogen) at 42°C for 50 min followed by heat-inactivation of the reverse transcriptase at 70°C for 15 min. PCR amplification was performed using SDIR1-specific forward (RT Fw, 5′-ATGAGCTTTGTTTTCCGGGG-3′) and reverse (RT Rev, 5′-TCAAACCATGTCGGAAGCATC-3′) primers and 25 cycles. Expression levels of Actin1 were monitored with forward (F, 5′-CATCAGGAAGGACTTGTACGG-3′) and reverse (R, 5′-GATGGACCTGACTCGTCATAC-3′) primers to serve as an internal control. For transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells, GFP-SDIR1 and membrane domain deletion GFP-SDIR1ΔTM gene fusions were constructed under the control of the 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator (CITATION). After bombardment, epidermal peels were incubated with liquid MS medium for 16 h in the dark, mounted on slides, and visualized using a fluorescence microscope. For detection of nuclei, samples were stained with 1 mg/mL 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole for 10 min. The plasmolysis of the onion epidermal cell was induced by 1 M sucrose treatment for 20 min. For cell fractionation analysis, SDIR1 and the truncated form were transiently expressed in Nicotina benthamiana leaf cells. A. tumefaciens cells containing the pBA002-myc vector constructed with PCR-amplified SDIR1 or SDIR1ΔTM fused with MYC at the N terminus under the control of the 35S promoter were injected into N. benthamiana leaves as described (CITATION). After incubation for 3 d, the infiltrated parts of leaves were subjected to protein extraction followed by cell fractionation. Total protein extracts were obtained from N. benthamiana leaf tissue overexpressing a myc-SDIR1 or myc-SDIR1ΔTM gene fusion by grinding in liquid nitrogen and then suspended in 2 volumes of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-MES, pH 8.0, 0.5 M sucrose, 1 mM MgCl2, 10 mM EDTA, 5 mM DTT, and protease inhibitor cocktail; Roche) on ice as described with minor modifications (CITATION). Total extract was centrifuged at 10,000g to separate into the soluble fraction (supernatant was recentrifuged at 100,000g to discard insoluble material) and the membrane fraction. The membrane fraction was further extracted with a detergent-free buffer and centrifuged at 100,000g for the buffer-extracted fraction, and the pellet in this step was suspended with SDS-containing buffer, then centrifuged at 100,000g to separate the supernatant as the SDS-extracted fraction and the pellet final membrane fraction. Aliquots of each sample were added with SDS-PAGE loading buffer for protein gel analysis. Buffers and the procedure were as described (CITATION). The entire SDIR1 open reading frame (822 bp) was cloned into the pMAL-c2 vector (New England Biolabs) and expressed in Escherichia coli. The fusion proteins were prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions. The sdir1 mutants that contain mutation in the RING finger domain were prepared using the Quickchange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) according to the protocol provided by the manufacturer. The sequences of the primer pair used for the preparation of the His-234 to Tyr-234 mutant are as follows: M1F, 5′-ACCTTGTTTGCATCAGTTTTATGCAGGATGTATCGATCC-3′; M1R, 5′-GGATCGATACATCCTGCATAAAACTGATGCAAACAAGGT-3′. For the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity assay of the fusion proteins, crude extract containing recombinant wheat (Triticum aestivum) E1 (GI: 136632), human E2 (UBCh5b; ∼40 ng), and purified E3 (∼1 μg) fused with the MBP tag, and purified Arabidopsis ubiquitin (UBQ14, At4g02890; ∼2 μg) fused with the His tag, were used for the assay. The in vitro E3 ligase assays were performed as described (CITATION). Proteins after reaction were separated by SDS-PAGE, blotted, probed by HisDetector nickel–nitrilotriacetic acid agarose conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories) for the detection of His-tagged ubiquitin or antibody to MBP (antiserum; New England Biolabs), and visualized using chemiluminescence as instructed by the manufacturer (ECL; Amersham Pharmacia). The sdir1-1 (SALK_052702) and sdir1-2 (SALK_114361) seeds were obtained from the ABRC (Ohio State University, Columbus). Homozygous mutant was identified by PCR from genomic DNA using forward (P1, the same as the RT Fw primer mentioned above) and T-DNA left border primers (LBb1, 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) and SDIR1 gene-specific reverse primer (P2, 5′-CACCTTCCCCTGTTAAGGAAG-3′) and analyzed further by DNA sequencing to confirm the insertion of the T-DNA in the gene. Seeds and young seedlings at different developmental stages, and different parts from mature transgenic plants, were collected and used for histochemical detection of GUS expression. For general detection, materials were stained at 37°C overnight in 1 μg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc), 5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.03% Triton X-100, and 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. To test the induction of GUS expression by salt and drought, 10-d-old transgenic seedlings were transferred from agar plates to MS liquid medium containing NaCl for salt treatment or to a filter exposed in the air with 70% RH for drought treatment. The treated and control transgenic seedlings were stained in 1 μg/mL X-Gluc, 0.03% Triton X-100, and 20 mM HEPES buffer, pH 7.0, for 2 h for histochemical detection. For RNA gel blot analysis, 2-week-old seedlings from the agar plate were transferred onto a filter paper in a covered Petri dish and subjected to drought treatment. The treatment was conducted in an environment of 70% RH. For the soil-grown plant drought tolerance test, 1-week-old seedlings were transplanted to the soil for 2 weeks under standard growth conditions, and then plants were subjected to progressive drought by withholding water for specified times. To minimize experimental variations, the same numbers of plants were grown on the same tray. The entire test was repeated a minimum of three times. To measure the transpiration rate, detached fresh leaves were placed abaxial side up on open Petri dishes and weighed at different time intervals at room temperature. Leaves of similar developmental stages (third to fifth true rosette leaves) from 3-week-old soil-grown plants were used. Ten fresh leaves from 4-week-old soil-grown plants in the middle of the watering period (3 d after watering) and light period plants at similar developmental stages (grown in 8 h of light at 22°C and 16 h of darkness at 20°C, 70% RH) were harvested in the morning, 1.5 h after giving light. Leaves were placed on slides abaxial side up and frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen, and scanning electron microscopy was performed to observe guard cells. The numbers of guard cells in randomly chosen fields were counted. Widths and lengths of stomatal pores were measured for statistical analysis (CITATION). Leaves from 4- to 5-week-old plants grown in the same conditions described above were harvested in darkness at the end of the night. Paradermal sections of abaxial epidermis obtained in dim green light were incubated in 10 mM KCl, 7.5 mM potassium iminodiacetate, and 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.15, at 20°C. ABA was added to the solution, and stomatal apertures were measured with an optical microscope (Optiphot-2; Nikon) fitted with a camera lucida and a digitizing table (TG1017; Houston Instrument) linked to a personal computer. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for major genes mentioned in this article are as follows: SDIR1 (At3g55530); PLDα1 (At3g15730); GPA1 (At2g26300); ABI1 (At4g26080); At PP2C (At3g11410); ABI2 (At5g57050); ABI5 (At2g36270); ABF3 (At4g34000); ABF4 (At3g19290); RD29A (At5g52310); RD22 (At5g25610); RAB18 (At5g66400); P5CS1 (At2g39800), and ADH1 (At1g77120). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The GFP-SDIR1 Fusion Protein Is Functional. Supplemental Figure 2. 35S-SDIR1 Can Complement ABA- and NaCl-Insensitive Phenotypes of sdir1-1. Supplemental Figure 3. KCl and LiCl Sensitivity of 35S-SDIR1 and sdir1-1 Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. RNA Gel Blot Analysis of sdir1-1 Complementation Plants and Quantification of the ABA-Responsive Phenotype.
