!~ABS~! Innate immunity against pathogen infection is an evolutionarily conserved process among multicellular organisms. Arabidopsis SNC1 encodes a Resistance protein that combines attributes of multiple mammalian pattern recognition receptors. Utilizing snc1 as an autoimmune model, we identified a discrete protein complex containing at least three members—MOS4 (Modifier Of snc1, 4), AtCDC5, and PRL1 (Pleiotropic Regulatory Locus 1)—that are all essential for plant innate immunity. AtCDC5 has DNA-binding activity, suggesting that this complex probably regulates defense responses through transcriptional control. Since the complex components along with their interactions are highly conserved from fission yeast to Arabidopsis and human, they may also have a yet-to-be-identified function in mammalian innate immunity. 
!~RES~! In plants, innate immunity against microbial pathogens is governed by R proteins that are responsible for recognizing pathogen effectors and initiating downstream defense responses (CITATION). The most common R proteins are TIR- and CC-class NB-LRR proteins (CITATION). Although many R genes have been cloned, the signal transduction events downstream from R proteins remain scarcely detailed. In order to identify more signaling components downstream from R-protein activation, we carried out a suppressor screen using snc1 (CITATION; CITATION). The mos4-1 snc1 double-mutant plants were the same size as wild type, and had leaves that were less curly than in snc1 (Fig. 1A). Constitutive pBGL2-GUS reporter gene expression in snc1 was completely abolished by mos4-1 (Supplementary Fig. 1A). Furthermore, RT–PCR analysis showed that endogenous PR-2 (BGL2) was no longer constitutively expressed in mos4-1 snc1 plants, and that the expression of PR-1 was partially suppressed (Supplementary Fig. 1B). Genetic analysis indicated that mos4-1 is a single recessive mutation (data not shown). In addition, defects in MOS4 affected flowering time and male fertility (Supplementary Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]] The snc1 mutant accumulates high levels of the defense-signaling molecule salicylic acid (SA). Previously, we found that blocking SA synthesis only partially suppressed snc1 phenotypes (CITATION). In mos4-1 snc1, levels of free SA were about eightfold lower than in snc1, and levels of total SA were ∼30-fold lower than in snc1 (Fig. 1B); these SA levels were comparable with wild-type controls, suggesting that MOS4 functions upstream of SA synthesis.  Two of the most amenable plant–pathogen model systems for the genetic dissection of host responses are those between Arabidopsis and (1) Pseudomonas syringae pv maculicola (P.s.m.) and pv tomato (P.s.t.), two strains of a hemi-biotrophic bacterial species that cause disease symptoms ranging from leaf spots to stem cankers, on a broad range of plant hosts; and (2) Hyaloperonospora parasitica (H.p.), an obligate biotrophic oomycete. Oomycetes grow funguslike hyphae but have cellulosic cell walls and are phylogenetically unrelated to fungi. snc1 is resistant to P.s.m. ES4326 and H.p. Noco2, both of which are normally virulent in Arabidopsis Col-0 plants. While snc1 had no disease symptoms and supported ∼50 times less bacterial growth than wild type at 3 d post-infection (DPI), mos4-1 snc1 harbored an approximately wild-type titer of bacterial growth (Fig. 1C) and exhibited some disease symptoms (data not shown). Furthermore, mos4-1 completely suppressed resistance to H.p. Noco2 in snc1, as shown in Figure 1D. MOS4 (At3g18165) was cloned using a map-based approach (see the Supplemental Material; Supplementary Fig. 3). The mutation in mos4-1 snc1 was found to be an insertion in At3g18165, and 35S-At3g18165 was able to complement the mos4-related phenotypes (Supplementary Fig. 3E,F). In addition, other T-DNA alleles of At3g18165 were able to suppress snc1 (Supplementary Fig, 3G), confirming that MOS4 is indeed At3g18165. Sequence analysis revealed that MOS4 is similar to human BCAS2, with 29% identity and 48% similarity at the protein level. An amino acid alignment between Arabidopsis MOS4 and related proteins from other eukaryotes shows highly conserved regions (Supplementary Fig. 4). Since the identity of MOS4 did not reveal the detailed biochemical mechanism of its regulation of innate immunity, we employed three approaches to further elucidate MOS4’s detailed modes of action: (1) genetic analysis to identify the pathway in which MOS4 acts, (2) subcellular localization of MOS4, and (3) identification of MOS4-interacting proteins.  To understand how MOS4 contributes to plant innate immunity, we used a genetic approach to examine the pathway in which it functions. Signaling downstream from snc1 diverges into multiple pathways dependent on different signaling intermediates (CITATION). NPR1, an ankyrin-repeat protein with redox-regulated nuclear translocation, controls basal resistance downstream from SA and regulates PR-1 expression through interaction with the TGA subfamily of bZIP transcription factors (CITATION). Since npr1-1 does not block PR-2 expression or resistance to virulent P.s.m. ES4326 in the snc1 npr1-1 double mutant, snc1 activates NPR1-dependent and independent responses (CITATION). Because mos4-1 completely suppressed the constitutive PR-2 expression of snc1 (Supplementary Fig. 1B), we surmised that MOS4 might be required for the NPR1-independent pathway. To test the epistatic relationship between MOS4 and NPR1, mos4-1 npr1-1 double and mos4-1 npr1-1 snc1 triple mutants were created. When challenged with virulent and avirulent pathogens, mos4-1 completely suppressed the enhanced resistance and morphology of snc1 npr1 in the mos4-1 npr1-1 snc1 triple mutant, and supported at least a 10-fold higher titer of bacteria than mos4-1 snc1, suggesting that a defect in MOS4 blocks NPR1-independent pathways downstream from snc1 (Fig. 2A). Furthermore, in the absence of the snc1 mutation, mos4-1 npr1 plants were more susceptible to a normally subclinical concentration of P.s.m. ES4326 than npr1-1 or mos4-1 alone, supporting three- to sevenfold more bacteria 3 DPI (Fig. 2B). The additive nature of the enhanced disease susceptibility (EDS) of mos4-1 and npr1-1 shown by these data suggests that two separate pathways contributing to basal defense are compromised in the double mutant. In addition, mos4-1 npr1-1 was more susceptible to avirulent H.p. Emwa1 than either the npr1-1 or mos4-1 single mutants (Fig. 2C), indicating that NPR1-independent signaling downstream from R protein activation—in this case, RPP4—is mediated by MOS4.  [[FIGURE]] To date, a fairly exclusive group of NPR1-independent defense signaling components has been described; these include MOS2, a putative RNA-binding protein isolated earlier from the snc1 suppressor screen (CITATION), and FMO1 (FLAVIN-DEPENDENT MONOXYGENASE 1), a positive regulator of EDS1 signaling that is independent of SA accumulation (CITATION). Although the genetic relationship of FMO with NPR1 remains to be determined, it is likely to be NPR1 independent.  Because the mos4-1 single mutant is able to accumulate SA in response to avirulent pathogen infiltration (Supplementary Fig. 5), MOS4 does not seem to contribute to SA accumulation caused by pathogen infection. The reason why mos4-1 snc1 has low SA is probably due to the SA-independent pathway having a positive amplification role in SA synthesis (CITATION). A schematic model of MOS4 signaling in plant innate immunity is shown in Supplementary Figure 6.  To determine the subcellular localization of MOS4, GFP was cloned in-frame at the C terminus of MOS4 and transformed into mos4-1 plants. GFP fluorescence was detected exclusively in the nucleus of various cell types in several independent MOS4-GFP transgenic lines, including guard cells (Fig. 3A), epidermal cells, and root cells (data not shown), suggesting that MOS4 is a nuclear protein. When MOS4-GFP was transformed into mos4-1 snc1 plants and the transgenic progeny examined, all of the nine transgenic plants selected exhibited snc1 phenotypes, indicating that the expression of MOS4-GFP driven by its native promoter complements the mos4-1 mutation in the snc1 background (Fig. 3B). In addition, MOS4-GFP complemented the EDS phenotype of the mos4-1 single mutant (Fig. 3C). Although mos4-1 with MOS4-GFP is wild-type-like, whereas mos4-1 snc1 with MOS4-GFP is snc1-like, we did not observe any difference in GFP localization or intensity of GFP fluorescence between the two genetic backgrounds (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the MOS4 amino acid sequence predicted that the C-terminal half had the potential to form an amphipathic α-helix, a motif known to mediate protein–protein interactions through parallel two-stranded coiled-coil structure. We thus employed a GAL4-based yeast two-hybrid screen to search for proteins that are capable of interacting with MOS4. One of the interacting proteins found in the screen was AtCDC5 (Supplementary Fig. 7A), an 844-amino-acid polypeptide with similarity to R2R3-type MYB transcription factors that exhibits in vitro sequence-specific DNA-binding activity (CITATION). To confirm in planta interaction of MOS4 and AtCDC5, HA or GFP was cloned in-frame at the C ternimus of MOS4 driven by its own promoter and transformed into mos4-1. The fusion clone is able to fully complement mos4-related phenotypes (data not shown), indicating that the fusion proteins function the same as the wild type. Immunoprecipitation (IP) using Anti-GFP Microbeads followed by Western blot analysis with AtCDC5 antibody showed that AtCDC5 coimmunoprecipitated with MOS4-GFP (Fig. 4A). Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) with Anti-HA Microbeads yielded similar results (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The human homologs of MOS4 and AtCDC5, BCAS2 (also known as hSPF27) and hCDC5L, respectively, have been isolated as components of the multiprotein spliceosome complex by proteomic analysis (CITATION; CITATION). Using different purification strategies and mass spectrometry, hCDC5L copurified with at least five non-small nuclear RNA (snRNA) proteins in a discrete complex, one of which was BCAS2, the MOS4 homolog (CITATION). CDC5L orthologs in Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cdc5p and Cef1p, respectively, also copurified with a core complex nearly identical in composition to that in human cells (CITATION). The complex containing Cef1p was termed the PRP NTC, based on the identity of another complex member, Prp19p (Cwf8p in S. pombe) (CITATION). The hNTC has also been termed the NMP200 Complex and PSO4 Complex (CITATION). In vitro immunodepletion of the orthologous human NTC from HeLa nuclear extracts inhibits formation of pre-mRNA splicing products (CITATION). Taken together, the conserved interaction between MOS4 and AtCDC5 homologs in yeast, Arabidopsis, and human suggests an evolutionarily conserved function of MOS4 through its interaction with AtCDC5.  A third component of the human NTC is PLRG1, a WD40 repeat protein shown to bind directly to CDC5L (CITATION). An Arabidopsis homolog of PLRG1, the previously described PRL1(At4g15900), encodes a conserved nuclear WD protein that functions as a pleiotropic regulator of glucose and hormone responses (CITATION). Using a yeast two-hybrid assay, we showed that AtCDC5 interacted directly with PRL1 (Supplementary Fig. 7B). In addition, PRL1-GFP was localized to the nucleus (Supplementary Fig. 8). To test for in planta interaction, GFP or HA tag was cloned in-frame at the C terminus of PRL1 and transformed into prl1-1. The fusion clone fully complemented all the prl1 phenotypes (data not shown). Using an IP-Western procedure similar to what was done with MOS4, it was demonstrated that AtCDC5 coimmunoprecipitated with PRL1-GFP (Fig. 4B). Co-IP with HA column yielded similar results (data not shown).  To determine if AtCDC5 is also involved in snc1-dependent signaling, a T-DNA insertion line (SAIL_207_F03) in the 5′-untranslated region (UTR) of AtCDC5 (At1g09770) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). The morphological phenotypes of Atcdc5-1 were very similar to mos4-1; like mos4-1, Atcdc5-1 flowered late, but was slightly smaller than mos4-1 and exhibited complete male sterility (Supplementary Fig. 2). All of these phenotypes were complemented by a genomic clone of wild-type AtCDC5 (data not shown). The mutation in AtCDC5 partially suppressed snc1 morphology, as the Atcdc5-1 snc1 double-mutant plants grew bigger and had leaves that were less curly than in snc1 (Fig. 5A). Atcdc5-1 snc1 plants also partially suppressed PR gene expression (Fig. 5B) and supported higher bacterial growth than snc1 (Fig. 5C). Thus, the mutation in AtCDC5 suppressed enhanced disease resistance responses in snc1 similar to mutations in MOS4. Subsequently, a second T-DNA insertion line (GABI_278B09) in an exon of AtCDC5 (Atcdc5-2) was obtained and determined to be allelic to Atcdc5-1. Atcdc5-2 also suppressed snc1 (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Three T-DNA insertions in PRL1 were obtained from the ABRC. The morphological phenotypes of all three prl1 alleles were identical to each other and similar to those of mos4-1 and Atcdc5-1, except with no flowering time defect (Supplementary Fig. 2). In addition, a genomic clone of wild-type PRL1 was able to fully complement prl1 phenotypes in 20 out of 22 transgenic T1 plants (data not shown). Because PRL1 and SNC1 are very closely linked on chromosome 4, we were unsuccessful in identifying the prl1 snc1 double mutant (data not shown).  Since homologs of MOS4, AtCDC5, and PRL1 all belong to the NTC in fission yeast and human, an immediate question is whether or not these three genes affect innate immunity in a similar manner. We tested the mos4, Atcdc5, and prl1 single mutants for EDS to a subclinical concentration of the virulent bacterial pathogen P.s.m. ES4326. At 3 DPI, disease symptoms were evident in infected leaves of all three mutants and absent in the wild-type Col-0 control (data not shown). Furthermore, mos4 alleles and Atcdc5-1 consistently supported ∼25- to 50-fold more bacterial growth than wild-type plants, while prl1 alleles supported an even higher titer of bacteria (at least 10-fold further) in the infected leaves, indicating that MOS4, AtCDC5, and PRL1 are all required for basal resistance to P.s.m. ES4326 (Fig. 6A). Similarly, mos4, Atcdc5, and prl mutants exhibited enhanced susceptibility to other virulent pathogens such as H.p. Noco2 (data not shown) and Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato (P.s.t.) DC3000 (Supplementary Fig. 9A).  [[FIGURE]] Since alleles of prl1 are consistently more susceptible than alleles of mos4 or Atcdc5 (Fig. 6A), we crossed mos4-1 with Atcdc5-1 or prl1-1 to screen for respective double mutants to see if each putative complex member contributes quantitatively to plant immunity. We were unable to identify a mos4-1 Atcdc5-1 or mos4-1 prl1-1 double-mutant plant in the F2 generation. After selecting several F2 plants homozygous for one mutation and heterozygous for the other by PCR, for both mutant combinations, we were unable to find double-homozygous plants in several F3 populations of >100 plants. This strongly suggests that mos4-1 Atcdc5-1 and mos4-1 prl1-1 double-homozygous plants are probably lethal.  To assay whether these mutants affected PR gene expression during pathogen infection, mos4-1, Atcdc5-1, prl1-1 and npr1-1 plants were inoculated with a clinical dose of virulent P.s.m. ES4326 and the RNA was extracted after 24 h. Real-time RT–PCR revealed that PR-1 gene expression was absent in npr1-1 and much lower in the other mutants tested, compared with wild type (Supplementary Fig. 9B).  Is enhanced susceptibility to P.s.m ES4326 in these mutants caused by a deficiency in SA accumulation? To answer this question, we inoculated quarter leaves of Col-0, mos4-1, Atcdc5-1, and prl1-1 with a high dose of avirulent P.s.m. ES426 carrying AvrB and collected the remaining leaf tissue 24 h later, at which time macroscopic cell death was observed. Total SA was extracted and measured in pathogen- versus mock-inoculated leaves. As seen in Supplementary Figure 5, SA was able to accumulate in all three mutants as in wild type in response to an avirulent pathogen, indicating that MOS4 and its interacting partners do not contribute to SA accumulation after infection.  To test if defects in MOS4, AtCDC5, or PRL1 affected nonhost resistance, we inoculated plants with a high dose of P.s.t. DC3000 lacking HrpA, which encodes a pilus subunit required for the secretion of effectors into the host cytoplasm, and assayed for bacterial growth (Supplementary Fig. 10A). At 4 DPI, there was insignificant growth of P.s.t. DC3000 hrpA− in wild-type and all three mutant plants, suggesting that no defect in nonhost resistance exists as in mutants such as nho1 (CITATION). We also tested the response of these mutants to a model pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP), flg22, the peptide epitope of the bacterial flagellin protein that is recognized by the receptor-like kinase FLS2 (CITATION; CITATION). The defense responses mediated by FLS2 are associated with a measurable inhibition of seedling growth upon prolonged treatment with flg22 (CITATION). Ten days after application of 20 μM flg22, seedling growth inhibition was similar in wild-type Col-0 and in mos4-1, Atcdc5-1, and prl1-1 seedlings compared with growth in media alone (Supplementary Fig. 10B,C). In addition, injection of flg22 peptide followed by inoculation with P.s.t. DC3000 24 h later resulted in enhanced resistance and consequently lower bacterial growth at 2 DPI versus mock treatment in wild type and in all three mutants (Supplementary Fig. 10D). The Arabidopsis ecotype Wassilewskija-0 (WS-0), which has a natural defect in FLS2, and the fls2 mutant in Col-0 were not responsive to flg22 in either experiment, as expected. These data suggest that response to flg22 is not compromised in mos4-1, Atcdc5-1, or prl1-1, although we cannot exclude the possibility that these mutants are compromised in an FLS2-independent response to other PAMPs.  To test if the mos4, Atcdc5, and prl1 mutations affect resistance mediated by R proteins other than SNC1, we tested several Avr-R combinations that result in incompatible interactions in Arabidopsis. At least two distinct disease resistance pathways have been described for Arabidopsis, governed by R-protein structural type rather than pathogen class (CITATION). The R genes RPM1 (CC-NB-LRR type) and RPP4 (TIR-NB-LRR type) confer resistance to bacterial and oomycete pathogens expressing specific cognate avirulence gene products (CITATION; CITATION). mos4-1, Atcdc5-1, and prl1-1 were more susceptible than wild type to both avirulent P.s.m. ES4326 carrying AvrB (RPM1-dependent resistance) and avirulent H.p. Emwa1 (RPP4-dependent resistance), based on higher growth of pathogens in both mutants (Fig. 6B,C). Unlike EDS1 and NDR1, which are specifically required for signaling of TIR-NB-LRR and CC-NB-LRR-type R proteins, respectively, MOS4, AtCDC5, and PRL1 are required for resistance mediated by both types of R proteins. Other proteins required for both TIR and CC-NB-LRR R proteins include SGT1b, RAR1, and HSP90, which seem to function in stabilization of the R-protein complex rather than in downstream signaling (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION).  Because mutants in MOS4, AtCDC5, and PRL1 exhibit very similar phenotypes and defects in basal and specific defense responses, MOS4 and PRL1 directly interact with AtCDC5, and homologs of all three proteins belong to the NTC in humans and yeast, we speculate that these three proteins must function together in a multiprotein complex orthologous to the human NTC to regulate innate immunity in Arabidopsis. We term this multiprotein assembly the MOS4-Associated Complex (MAC). 
!~MM~! All plants were grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark regime. The mos suppressor screen and GUS staining protocol have been described previously (CITATION).  RNA used for gene expression analysis was extracted from 3-wk-old seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium using the Totally RNA kit (Ambion). RT was carried out using the RT-for-PCR kit (Clontech). Real-time PCR was performed using the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR kit (Qiagen). The primers used for amplification of Actin1, PR-1, and PR-2 were described previously (CITATION).  SA was extracted and measured from 4-wk-old soil-grown leaves using a previously described procedure (CITATION), proportionally scaled down using ∼100 mg of tissue per sample. Four-week-old soil-grown Arabidopsis plants were infected with P.s.m. ES4326. Leaf discs of 0.32 cm2 were taken with a standard paper hole-punch. Infection of plants with H.p. Noco2 and H.p. Emwa1 was performed on 2-wk-old seedlings. These procedures were as described (CITATION).  The Gateway LR Clonase enzyme (Invitrogen) was used to catalyze the recombination between pENTR-gMOS4 (see the Supplemental Material) and a destination vector that is a modified binary vector with TOPO destination recombination sites with GFP fused in-frame to the C terminus. The MOS4-GFP expression clone was sequenced to confirm in-frame fusion and a lack of PCR errors. Transgenic plants were selected on MS medium containing 75 μg/mL kanamycin. Guard cells of transgenic seedlings were examined for GFP fluorescence as described previously (CITATION).  We used the GAL4-based Y2H system described previously (CITATION). Briefly, a GAL4(DB)-cMOS4 construct (see the Supplemental Material) was introduced into Y2H strain YPB2 and used to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library (kindly provided by William Crosby) encoding Arabidopsis proteins as C-terminal fusions to the GAL4 transcription activation domain (TA). Putative MOS4-interacting proteins were selected on the basis of histidine prototrophy and further screened on the basis of lacZ expression.  Nuclear extracts (see the Supplemental Material) of transgenic mos4-1 complemented with gMOS4-GFP or gMOS4-HA and prl1-1 complemented with gPRL1-GFP or gPRL1-HA were mixed with 50 μL of Anti-GFP or Anti-HA MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec) to magnetically absorb the epitope-tagged target protein. After an overnight incubation on ice, the MicroBead-bound target protein was magnetically precipitated on columns according to the manufacturer’s instructions (μMACs; Miltenyi Biotec) for subsequent immunoblotting analysis. Immunoprecipitated proteins eluted from the column were detected with anti-GFP or anti-HA antibody, respectively, and the coimmunoprecipitated endogenous AtCDC5 protein was detected by a polyclonal antibody raised against the N-terminal 144-amino-acid fragment of AtCDC5. 
