!~ABS~! Despite the importance of the senescence processes in plants, our knowledge on regulatory mechanisms of senescence is still poor. WRKY transcription factors have been shown to be involved in the regulation of leaf senescence. However, almost nothing is known about the upstream regulation of the senescence specific expression of WRKY factors. Therefore, we characterized proteins that bind and activate the promoter of WRKY53, which participates in leaf senescence in Arabidopsis thaliana. Surprisingly, a mitogen activated protein kinase kinase kinase (MEKK1) was identified as a DNA-binding protein. The binding motif for MEKK1 in the WRKY53 promoter could be characterized and promoter:GUS analyses revealed that this region is important for the switch of WRKY53 expression from a leaf age dependent to a systemic plant age dependent expression during bolting time. In addition to its promotor-binding activity, MEKK1 was also able to interact with the WRKY53 protein. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays the complex formation of MEKK1 and WRKY53 could be localized predominately in the nucleus of Arabidopsis cells. MEKK1 could also phosphorylate WRKY53 in vitro and phosphorylation could increase DNA-binding activity of WRKY53 in vitro and transcription of a WRKY53 promoter driven reporter gene in vivo. These results suggest that MEKK1 is a bifunctional protein: it binds to the promoter of the WRKY53 gene regulating the switch from a leaf age dependent to a plant age dependent expression and it can phosopharylate WRKY53 in vitro increasing its DNA binding activity. Thus, MEKK1 might be able to take a very direct short cut in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling by directly phosphorylating a transcription factor.
!~RES~! In order to identify proteins that can interact with the WRKY53 promoter, a cDNA library obtained from 7-week-old Arabidopsis plants material was transformed into yeast strains containing four different P WRKY53 :His constructs (WP1-4, see also Fig. 2), respectively. Only yeast cells containing P WP1-WRKY53 :His could form very big colonies under selective conditions. Small colonies were not further analysed. The plasmids of the growing yeast colonies were isolated and the cDNA insertions were sequenced and blasted. To our surprise, a MAP kinase kinase kinase, MEKK1 (At4g08500), was identified as a DNA-binding protein. The corresponding full-length cDNA was isolated and cloned to GAD424 vector and subsequently retransformed into the yeast strain containing the P WP1-WRKY53 :His construct to confirm the DNA-binding activity. The full-length WRKY53 cDNA construct was used as a positive control in combination with PW-boxWRKY53 :His containing the two W-boxes of the WRKY53 promoter (−460 to −321, see also Fig. 2) whereas the empty GAD424 vector was used as a negative control. The transformation resulted in growth of the yeast on selection medium indicating DNA-binding activity to the WRKY53 promoter of MEKK1 and WRKY53 (Fig. 1A). In addition, the DNA-protein interaction was analysed in vitro by EMSAs. Crude protein extracts of E. coli expressing the recombinant protein were incubated with the radioactive labelled WRKY53 promoter fragment WP1. Again, MEKK1 was able to form a DNA-protein complex with the WRKY53 promoter fragment which could be competed with an excess of specific unlabelled competitor DNA but not with an excess of unspecific competitor indicating the specificity of the DNA-protein interaction (Fig. 1B). Extracts of an empty E. coli strain resulted only in an undefined smear in the EMSA. South-Western analysis confirmed the DNA-protein interaction with the recombinant protein in the E. coli extract of the correct size whereas the E. coli proteins did not show any DNA-binding activity to the WP1-fragment (Fig. 1C). Obviously, the recombinant MEKK1 protein clearly showed DNA-binding activity in vitro which was not described for MAPKKKs before. [[FIGURE]]  In order to characterize the DNA binding activity of MEKK1 more precisely, we narrowed down the DNA-binding activity of MEKK1 to a smaller DNA fragment by deletion analyses of WP-1. The smallest deletion fragment (61 bp) ranging from −658 to −597 of the WRKY53 promoter was still able to bind MEKK1. A motif search for plant cis-acting regulatory elements in the PLACE database (Higo et al. CITATION) revealed that the MYC consensus motif CANNTG is present on the plus and on the minus strand at position −617 (Fig. 2A). Therefore, we tested the exact motif (CATGTG termed motif1) for its binding activity. A triplicate version of this motif with some additional flanking sequences was used for EMSA experiments. This triplicate version was able to bind MEKK1 (Fig. 2B). Changing the motif to CTGTTG significantly increased the DNA binding of MEKK1 and led to the additional formation of a higher order complex. However, this motif is not present in the WRKY53 promoter. Changing the first base of the motif to an A or the last base to a C totally prevented MEKK1 from binding (Fig. 2B). Therefore, MEKK1 most likely binds to the CATGTG motif in the WP1 fragment. [[FIGURE]]  In order to determine whether MEKK1 can act as transcriptional activator, the full-length cDNA sequence was used as effector constructs in the yeast one-hybrid system fused to the GAL4 binding domain. The WRKY53 full-length cDNA was used as a positive control whereas the WRKY53 deletion construct (WΔ290) missing 34 amino acids of the C-terminal activation domain and the empty vector were used as negative controls. The expression of the LacZ reporter gene under the control of the GAL1 promoter was visualized by an X-Gal agarose overlay assay and was quantified by a β-galactosidase assay (Fig. 3A). The yeast strain transformed with the cDNA coding for MEKK1 showed no detectable expression of the reporter gene indicating that this protein contains no transcriptional activation domain. [[FIGURE]]  In order to test the influence of MEKK1 on reporter gene expression in vivo in Arabidopsis cells, the promoter activity of the WRKY53 promoter was followed by reporter gene expression in protoplasts. Arabidopsis protoplasts prepared from P WRKY53 :GUS transgenic plants were transformed with a construct encoding P CaMV35S :MEKK1. The empty vector was used as a control. Transformed protoplasts were analysed for GUS activity. In contrast to the yeast system, transient expression of MEKK1 protein caused a clear increase of the reporter gene expression (Fig. 3B). Taken together this suggests that the MEKK1 protein can directly interact with the WRKY53 promoter but exhibits only an indirect effect on the promoter activity in plant cells. In order to show that the promoter fragment (WP-1), which binds the MEKK1 protein, has an important function in the expression of the WRKY53 gene, this fragment was fused to the GUS reporter gene and this construct was transformed into plants. In addition, a WRKY53 promoter lagging exactly this fragment (ΔWP1) was also fused to the reporter gene and transformed. The PWP-1:GUS plants show the same leaf-age dependent expression of the GUS gene in 6-week-old plants but less pronounced than in PWRKY53:GUS plants and the typical switch to a strong systemic expression in 7-week old plants (Hinderhofer and Zentgraf CITATION) like in PWRKY53:GUS plants (Fig. 4A, B). If the WP-1 region was deleted from the promoter (ΔWP1) a residual leaf age specific expression of the reporter gene could be observed but the typical plant age specific switch of the expression pattern of PWRKY53:GUS plants was lost indicating that the WP-1 region which binds the MEKK1 protein is important for this senescence specific expression pattern of the WRKY53 gene. [[FIGURE]]  It was already shown before that hydrogen peroxide can induce the expression of WRKY53 (Miao et al. CITATION). To test whether MEKK1 is expressed at the same time as WRKY53 and whether expression of MEKK1 is also induced by hydrogen peroxide we analysed wildtype plants of different ages and wildtype plants treated with hydrogen peroxide for the expression of WRKY53 and MEKK1 by northern blot analyses (Fig. 5A, B). MEKK1 mRNA can be detected in the same developmental stages like WRKY53mRNA; however, MEKK1 mRNA level already increased strongly in 5-week-old plants (Fig. 5A). Hydrogen peroxide treatment could induce the expression of both genes (Fig. 5B). Furthermore, the P WRKY53 :GUS construct has been transiently transformed into protoplast of wildtype plants and of the WRKY53 knock-out line. These protoplasts were treated with hydrogen peroxide and samples to measure GUS activity were taken out directly before hydrogen peroxide was added (0 min) and 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after the addition. WRKY53 knock-out protoplasts did not show increased GUS expression after hydrogen peroxide treatment whereas wildtype protoplasts clearly demonstrated higher GUS activity (Fig. 5C). The response to hydrogen peroxide was faster in the protoplast system compared to the treatment of whole plants most likely due to relieved uptake in the protoplasts compared to spraying of whole plants. This suggests that the WRKY53 protein itself is involved in the signal transduction from hydrogen peroxide to the WRKY53 promoter. Unfortunately, plants homozygous for the knock-out of MEKK1 shortly died after germination and could not be tested. In order to test whether the MEKK1-binding region WP1 is involved in the response of the WRKY53 promoter to hydrogen peroxide, protoplasts prepared from P ΔWP1 :GUS plants were treated with hydrogen peroxide and analysed for GUS expression. If the MEKK1-binding site WP1 is missing in the promoter region, the GUS activity is clearly reduced (Fig. 5D) indicating that DNA-binding of MEKK1 is involved in the hydrogen peroxide response of WRKY53. [[FIGURE]]  Since WRKY53 and MEKK1 bind to the same promoter, we used the yeast-two-hybrid system to test whether these proteins are also able to interact with each other on the protein level. We cloned the full cDNAs of WRKY53 and MEKK1 either in the bait or in the prey vector, respectively. If WRKY53 was used as bait construct, not the full-length cDNA but a shorter version deleted for the activation domain (WΔ290) was used. According to the growth of the yeast strains on selective medium, the WRKY53 protein could interact with the MEKK1 protein using MEKK1 either as bait or prey construct (Fig. 6). The protein-protein complex formation was also analysed in vivo in plant cells by bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. In protoplasts, the MEKK1-GFP fusion protein could be localized in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus whereas the WRKY53-GFP fusion protein was predominately localized in the nucleus (Fig. 7A–D). Arabidopsis protoplasts as well as intact leaves were transiently co-transformed with constructs encoding a fusion protein between WRKY53 and the N-terminal part of the green fluorescent protein and MEKK1 and the C-terminal part of the green fluorescent protein. Protoplasts or epidermal peels were analysed for green fluorescence under the microscope. If both parts of the green fluorescent protein but only one of the interacting partners were present in the transformed constructs, no fluorescence could be observed (Fig. 7E, F, M, N) indicating that green fluorescence is only emitted when both parts of GFP are brought together by the interaction of the fused proteins. In protoplasts or leaf cells which were transformed with GFPc155-MEKK1/GFPn173-WRKY53 green fluorescence could clearly be detected indicating that MEKK1 and WRKY53 also interact in living plant cells (Fig. 7G–L). These MEKK1/WRKY53 complexes are predominantly localized in the nucleus but can also be found in the cytoplasm of protoplasts or epidermal cells (Fig. 7G–L). Expression of the transformed constructs was confirmed by western blots of protein extract of the transformed protoplasts. Transformed proteins were tagged with either c-myc or HA and, therefore, could be detected with Anti-c-myc or Anti-HA antibodies (Fig. 7O). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Since MEKK1 is a mitogen activated kinase kinase kinase, we tested whether WRKY53 is also target of its kinase activity. In vitro, MEKK1 was able to transfer the radioactive phosphor to WRKY53 (Fig. 8A). A time course of EMSA experiments with WRKY53 protein in the presence of ATP and MEKK1 protein revealed that the affinity of the WRKY53 protein to the promoter fragment of WRKY29 increased with incubation time indicating that phosphorylation positively influences the DNA-protein complex formation (Fig. 8B). If WRKY53 was incubated only in the presence of ATP in the EMSA, no increase in DNA-binding activity was observed (data not shown). The promoter fragment of WRKY29 was chosen for this assay because this fragment only contained four W-boxes and no MEKK1-binding motif so that only WRKY factors but not MEKK1 can bind. [[FIGURE]]  In addition, protoplasts from transgenic plants containing a promoter:GUS fusion construct with the four W-boxes of the WRKY29 promoter were prepared and co-transformed with P CaMV35S :MEKK1 and P CaMV35S :WRKY53 constructs leading to an increased expression of GUS. When the conserved lysine at position 361 in the kinase domain of the P CaMV35S :MEKK1 construct was changed to a methionin and co-transformed together with the P CaMV35S :WRKY53 construct, GUS activity was reduced almost to the same level as in protoplasts transformed with P CaMV35S :WRKY53 alone (Fig. 8C). This indicates that the kinase activity of MEKK1 increased the activity of the WRKY53 protein on the GUS driving promoter. It could be shown that MEKK1 has a dual function: (i) it can bind to the promoter of WRKY53 and (ii) it can interact with the WRKY53 on the protein level and can phosphorylate WRKY53 in vitro thereby increasing its DNA-binding activity. In order to show how far the action of MEKK1 on the promoter of WRKY53 is dependent on functional WRKY53 protein, on MEKK1-DNA binding or on MEKK1-kinase function, the influence of MEKK1 on GUS expression was tested in wild type plants and WRKY53 knock-out (W53-KO) plants. Protoplasts were co-transformed with P WRKY53 :GUS plasmids and a construct expressing MEKK1 or a mutated version of MEKK1 in which the conserved lysine at position 361 in the kinase domain was changed to a methionin. As already shown for the WRKY29 promoter (Fig. 8C) the mutation of the kinase domain of MEKK1 reduced the relative expression of the WRKY53 promoter driven GUS gene from 200% in the presence of intact MEKK1 to 132% in the presence of the mutated form (Fig. 9). If the MEKK1 binding-region (WP1) in the WRKY53 promoter is missing, the presence of intact MEKK1 could increase the GUS expression only to 120% pointing out that DNA-binding activity as well as kinase activity contributed to the activation of the WRKY53 promoter by MEKK1. However, the presence of intact MEKK1 has no effect of promoter activity in the W53-KO background clearly indicating that MEKK1 acts through the WRKY53 protein (Fig. 9). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Seeds from Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia, were grown on soil in a climatic chamber at 22°C with 16 h of illumination under low light conditions (60 μmol s−1 m−2). Under these conditions plants developed flowers within 7–8 weeks, mature seeds could be harvested after 10–12 weeks. T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the SALK collection at NASC. Salk-034157 has a T-DNA insertion in the second exon of WRKY53 (At4g23810). Salk-052557 has a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of MEKK1 (At4g08500), however, homozygous plants shortly died after germination. Position of the leaves within the rosette was determined by a colour code (Hinderhofer and Zentgraf CITATION). If not indicated otherwise three leaves of the same position within the rosette were taken for the experiments. Four different promoter fragment (WP1 Pos. −926 to −597/WP2 Pos. −655 to −355/WP3 Pos. −426 to −186/WP4 Pos. −256 to +1, also see Fig. 2) of the WRKY53 promoter were fused to cyc1 minimal promoter:HIS reporter vector and integrated to yeast strain Y187. A cDNA expression library was prepared from RNA of 7-week-old rosette leaves of Arabidopsis and integrated into the pGADT7-Rec vector, which harbours the GAL4 activation domain and the leu2 selection marker. This cDNA library was expressed in the yeast strain AH109. The one-hybrid screenings and assays were performed as described in CLONTECH’s Matchmaker One-hybrid system protocol (Clontech/Biosciences, Palo Alto, CA, USA). Positive interactions were verified by EMSA. In order to analyse the activation potential of the MEKK1 protein, the full-length cDNA was inserted into pGBKT7 vector to generate a MEKK1-GBD (GAL4–DNA-binding domain) fusion construct. These plasmids were introduced into yeast strain Y187 containing the LacZ gene under the control of the GAL1 promoter. β-galactosidase activity measurement and X-gal agarose overlay assay of yeast were performed according to the protocol of the Herskowitz lab using o-nitrophenyl β-galactopyranoside as substrate (http://biochemistry.ucsf.edu/∼herskowitz/protocols.html). The electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) was performed essentially as described by Promega (http://www.promega.com/tbs/tb110/tb110.html). The DNA-protein binding reaction was performed by incubation of 0.02 pmol of [gamma-32P] ATP-labelled DNA fragment with 15 μg crude protein extract of an E. coli strain expressing recombinant MEKK1 and 1 μg of poly (dI-dC) in a total volume of 20 μl. The reaction products were analysed on 5% nondenaturing polyacrylamide gels. The specificity of the DNA-binding protein for the putative binding site was established by using either 100-fold excess of unlabelled DNA-fragments or unspecific competitor DNA (herring sperm DNA treated with supersonic to get a mixture of different DNA motifs of the appropriate size). To test the influence of phophorylation of WRKY53 on its DNA binding activity, the phosphorylation reaction of WRKY53 proteins were performed by incubation of purified recombinant WRKY53 and MEKK1 protein with 20 μl kinase buffer (25 mM Tris pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2 containing 0.135 mM NaVO4, 2 mM DTT, 50 μM ATP and 0.05 mg/ml aprotinin, 0.5 mM leupeptin) at 30°C for 0, 15, 30, 45 min. Subsequently, 5 μl of 100 mM EDTA were added to stop the reaction. The phosphorylated proteins were analysed on SDS-PAGE and used to perform DNA-binding assay as described above. For South-Western analysis, extracts of E. coli cells expressing the respective recombinant protein were separated on 12% SDS polyacrylamide gels and electroblotted on nitrocellulose filters. Blots were incubated for 2 h at room temperature under DNA-binding conditions in the presence of 5% dried milk powder and 1% DTT, subsequently for 2 h under binding conditions in the presence of 0.25% dried milk powder, 1% DTT and 0.5 mg/ml herring sperm DNA. Radioactive labelled probe was added and incubation was performed overnight. Blots were washed three times under binding conditions in the presence of 0.25% dried milk powder and 1 mM DTT. A MEKK1 cDNA fragment that contained the full coding sequence and the 3′untranslated region was PCR amplified with primers that contain BamHI and XbaI restriction sites at the ends, cloned into pBluscript K and sequenced. The fragments with the correct coding sequences were excised and ligated into pRT-bar binary vector. An inactive form of MEKK1 was generated by site-specific mutation (QuickChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit Protocol, Stratagene USA), replacing the conserved lysine residue in the kinase ATP-binding loop by a methionin (Asai et al. CITATION). The mutation of MEKK1(K361M) was verified by sequencing. The P WRKY53 :GUS fusion was used as described before (Miao et al. CITATION). PWP−1 (Pos. −926 to −597) and PΔWP−1 lagging this fragment were also cloned in front of the GUS reporter gene in the PCB308 binary vector. In addition, four W-boxes plus minimal promoter of the WRKY29 promoter were amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA, cloned into pBluescript K vector and sequenced. Subsequently, this fragment was transferred to the pCB308 binary vector upstream of a GUS reporter gene (Xiang et al. CITATION). Arabidopsis transformation was performed by the vacuum infiltration procedure (Bechtold and Pelletier CITATION). The seeds were collected from the infiltrated plants and selected by spraying 0.1% Basta in a growth chamber. Transient expression analyses were performed with Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplast as descried by Sheen (CITATION). GUS enzyme activity assay was carried out as described by Jefferson et al. (CITATION). Histochemical staining of leaves for β-glucuronidase was done on transgenic A. thaliana T2/T3 plants. Leaves were incubated in 0.3% (v/v) formaldehyde for 60 min, rinsed several times with 50 mM NaH2PO4, covered with X-GlcA solution containing 10 mM EDTA (pH 8.0), 100 mM sodium phosphate, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1 % (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.5 mg/ml X-GlcA (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-b-d-glucuronide), incubated for 24 h at 37°C, destained and stored in 70% ethanol. The full-length MEKK1 and WRKY53 cDNA fragments were subcloned into the pQE30 expression vector (Qiagen GmbH, Hilden, Germany) to create pQE-MEKK1 encoding the 6 × His-tagged protein. E. coli cells carrying the plasmid were cultured in LB broth and treated with 1 mM IPTG for induction of the recombinant protein syntheses. The harvested cells were disrupted by sonication and centrifuged. Clear lysates were used for electrophoresis mobility shift assays and South-Western. Purification of recombinant 6 × His-tagged proteins was performed using Ni-NA agarose according to the protocol provided by Qiagen. Purified proteins were used for in vitro kinase activity assay. Total RNA was purified from Arabidopsis leaves using Gentra purescript Kit (Biozyme, Vienna, Austria). The total RNA was separated on MOPS-formaldehyde (6.2%) agarose gels (1.0 %) and transferred to nylon membranes using 10 × SSC as transfer buffer. The membranes were hybridised at 42°C using 5 × SSC; 50% formamide; 5 × Denhardt’s-solution; 1% SDS; 100 μg/ml heat-denatured sheared non-homologous DNA as hybridisation buffer and DNA probes which were labelled with [α-32P]dCTP in a random priming reaction. After hybridisation, membranes were washed once in 2 × SSC at room temperature, twice with 2 × SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65°C and once with 0.2 × SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65°C. The membranes were stripped for 30 min to 3 h in 5 mM Tris pH 8; 0.2 mM EDTA; 0.05% Na-pyrophosphate; 0.1 × Denhardt’s solution at 75–85°C until no radioactivity could be detected on the membrane. Rehybridization was performed following the hybridisation protocol. The full-length MEKK1 and WRKY53 cDNA fragments were inserted into to the prey vector pGADT7 which harbours the leu2 selection marker and the bait vector pGBKT7 which contains the Trip1 selection marker, respectively. If WRKY53 was applied as a bait construct, a deleted form of WRKY53 (without activation domain, WΔ290) was used. The two-hybrid assays were performed as described in CLONTECH’s MATCHMAKER GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 protocol. The full-length WRKY53 cDNA with a c-myc tag was cloned into pGFPn173c vector (created and kindly provided by Binghua Wu, ZMBP, University of Tübingen) encoding the N-terminal part of the GFP protein and was sequenced. Full-length MEKK1 cDNA fragment with a HA-tag was cloned into the pGFPc155c vector encoding the C-terminal part of the GFP protein. Expression was driven by the CaMV35S promoter, respectively. All plasmids were transformed to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101/pMP90. Arabidopsis leaves were transformed by injection of Agrobacterium cells harbouring the appropriate plasmids as previously described (Batoko et al. CITATION). Protein expression was examined 24–48 h after injection by western blot analyses. GFP-dependent fluorescence was analysed 48 h after infection in cells of the lower epidermis. The expression pattern and intracellular distribution of GFP fluorescence were assessed by using an epifluorescence microscope. Epidermis of infected leaf areas was carefully peeled and mounted in water for microscopic observations. Nuclei were stained in 5% carmin acetic acid. Images were processed using the Adobe Photoshop software package. For localization of WRKY and MEKK1 proteins alone, PCaMV35S:WRKY53-GFP and PCaMV35S:MEKK1-GFP constructs were transiently transformed into protoplast as described above. To extract soluble proteins, 0.2 g leaf material were batch-frozen in liquid nitrogen, ground into powder, resuspended in 100 μl of extraction buffer (100 mM Tris, pH 7.2, 10% sucrose, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, protease inhibitor) and were centrifuged at 15,000g for 10 min. The supernatants were used for western blot analysis. Proteins were separated on 8% acrylamide gels and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes by semi-dry blotting. Membranes were blocked for 1 h at room temperature in TBS containing 5% (w/v) non-fat dry milk powder. The membranes were incubated either with anti-HA or anti-c-myc monoclonal antibodies for 1 h, respectively. Blots were washed in TBST for 10 min (three times) before incubation with secondary antibodies conjugated with a phophatase. The blots were washed with TBST for 10 min (three times) and antibody conjugates were detected by chemoluminescence and exposure to X-ray films. Phosphorylation activities of MEKK1 was assayed at room temperature for 30 min in a final volume of 20 μl reaction buffer (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 10 mM MgCl2 and 100 μM ATP) containing 50 μCi [gamma-32P]ATP (5,000 Ci mmol−1) and one of the substrates at a final protein concentration of 0.1 mg/ml. Myelin basic protein (18 kDa) was used as a control protein. The reaction was terminated by the addition of 4 × SDS sample loading buffer. After electrophoresis on 8% (w/v) SDS-PAGE, the phosphorylated substrates were visualized by autoradiography (Cheong et al. CITATION).
