!~ABS~! Stomatal apertures are regulated by morphological changes in guard cells which have been associated with guard cell vacuolar structures. To investigate the contribution of guard cell vacuoles to stomatal movement, we examined the dynamics of vacuolar membrane structures in guard cells and evaluated the changes in vacuolar volumes and surface areas during stomatal movement. Using a transgenic Arabidopsis line expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)–AtVAM3, we have found that the guard cell vacuolar structures became complicated during stomatal closure with the appearance of numerous intra-vacuolar membrane structures. A three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction using our originally developed software, REANT (reconstructor and analyzer of 3-D structure), and photobleaching analysis revealed the continuity of the vacuolar structures, even when they appeared to be compartmented in confocal images of closed stomata. Furthermore, calculations of the surface area by REANT revealed an increase in vacuolar surface area during stomatal closure but a decrease in the surface area of the guard cells. Movement of a vital staining dye, FM4-64, to the vacuolar membrane was accelerated during ABA-induced stomatal closure in Vicia faba. These results suggest that the guard cell vacuoles store some portion of the excess membrane materials produced during stomatal closure as intra-vacuolar structures.
!~RES~! To examine vacuolar dynamics during stomatal movement, we used a transgenic Arabidopsis line stably expressing GFP–AtVAM3 (Fig. 1; Uemura et al. CITATION). Localization of GFP–AtVAM3 fluorescence on the VM was confirmed by staining of the guard cells with FM4-64 (Fig. 1A). Although FM4-64 is known as an endosomal marker, pulse labeling for 1 h and subsequent overnight chasing results in the final movement of this dye into the VM of living plant cells (Emans et al. CITATION, Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Using this transgenic line, we investigated the dynamics of stomatal vacuolar structures during stomatal movement. When the stomata were opened by white light illumination for 2 h, GFP fluorescence was mainly observed on the outer VM in addition to the ridges of the transvacuolar strands (Fig. 1B, F). When we closed the stomata by application of ABA, many invaginated structures and some bulb-like structures appeared in the vacuolar lumen in addition to the outer VM (Fig. 1C, F). Similar intra-vacuolar structures were seen in stomata closed by dark treatment for 2 h (Fig. 1D, F), but these structures largely disappeared when the stomata were opened after 2 h of fusicoccin (FC) treatment (Fig. 1E, F). Thus, the VM structures were rather simple when the stomata were open but became complicated by intra-vacuolar structures when the stomata closed. To monitor vacuolar dynamics during stomatal closure, we categorized the vacuolar structures of the guard cells as follows: those with only some luminal structures were classified as Type 1 (Fig. 2A); those with invaginated structures as Type 2 (Fig. 2B); and those with clear bulb-like structures as Type 3 (Fig. 2C). Prior to ABA application, about 65% of the cells had a Type 1 vacuole. After ABA application, this population started to decrease until by 30 min almost no Type 1 vacuoles could be observed (Fig. 2D). In contrast, the population of Type 3 vacuoles, that was barely observable before ABA application, increased to about 80% after 30 min of ABA application. The population of Type 2 vacuoles first increased and then decreased, implying that the Type 2 vacuole was the transient form of the Type 1 and 3 vacuoles (Fig. 2B, D). These observations suggested that the vacuolar structures changed sequentially from a smooth and simple configuration to a more complicated form during stomatal closure.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm the sequential changes in vacuolar structures during stomatal closure, we defined the morphological parameter ‘vacuolar complexity (Cv)’. This parameter indicates the degree of excess VMs relative to the vacuolar lumen and was calculated by Pv2/4πAv, where Pv is the vacuolar perimeter and Av is its sectional area. The Pv and Av that are measured from the confocal images reflect the amount of membrane and volume of vacuoles, respectively (Fig. 2E). The simplest structure, a circle, has the lowest value, 1.0, of Cv and, when the structure becomes complicated, Cv shows appropriately higher values (Fig. 2F). When we calculated the Cv values of the guard cell vacuoles, the type 1 vacuole often observed in open stomata showed a Cv of 10.4, whereas the type 3 vacuole of closed stomata showed a value of 21.8, and the type 2 vacuole showed an intermediate Cv of 15.1 (Fig. 2G). To examine the spatial configurations of the complicated vacuolar structures in guard cells, we performed 3-D reconstructions from a series of confocal images using our originally developed software package, designated REANT (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION). With this software, GFP images obtained by CLSM are extracted as contours (Fig. 3A, B), and the contours from successive Z-axis images are then stacked (Fig. 3C). Subsequently, the stacked contours are connected to form polygons (Fig. 3D), and finally the 3-D surface structures are generated (Fig. 3E).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The 3-D reconstruction of vacuolar structures showed a large, convoluted vacuole when the stomata were closed by ABA or dark treatment (Fig. 3G, H). Although these structures could have been expected from the confocal images (Figs. 1, 2), the 3-D images indicated that the vacuole maintained a large structure and was not divided into compartments. In contrast, when the stomata were opened after light or FC treatment, large, swollen and smooth vacuoles with some transvacuolar strands were observed (Fig. 3F, I). To confirm vacuolar continuity in the closed stomata, photobleaching was performed in the guard cells stained with 1 μM BCECF-AM, a dye that stains the lumen of vacuoles (Matsuoka et al. CITATION, Mitsuhashi et al. CITATION). After exposure of only a limited area to strong excitation light for 1 min, the BCECF fluorescence faded throughout the entire guard cell, even though only a limited area was exposed, whereas fluorescence in the adjacent guard cell was unaffected (Fig. 4A). The photobleaching analysis was also performed in V. faba since physiological studies of stomatal movement often use this material that has a relatively large guard cell size compared with Arabidopsis. When stomata were opened by light illumination, BCECF staining showed a large vacuole with a smooth surface occupying the guard cell (Fig. 4B), whereas when the stomata were treated with ABA, many small circular regions that were not stained by BCECF were observed in the midplane (Fig. 4C). These regions appear to co-localize with the plastids. Note that since the stoma shown in Fig. 4C does not seem still to be completely closed, ABA treatment may first decrease vacuolar volume by releasing water and then modulate guard cell structure. After photobleaching, the BCECF fluorescence faded in the entire region of the guard cell whereas fluorescence in the adjacent guard cell did not fade (Fig. 4D), as in the Arabidopsis guard cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The advantage of REANT, in addition to allowing 3-D reconstruction, is its ability to calculate structural volume and its surface area through the surface model (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION). To estimate the contribution of vacuolar dynamics to guard cell movement, the changes in volume and surface area of both the guard cell vacuole and the guard cell itself were calculated during stomatal closure. Serial images of the vacuoles and guard cells were obtained by GFP fluorescence of the GFP–AtVAM3 fusion proteins, and by visualizing the plasma membrane (PM) after staining with FM4-64 for 2 min, respectively (Fig. 5A). We previously used this dye to visualize the VM by 1 h pulse labeling and subsequent overnight chasing (Fig. 1A), but as this dye is first incorporated into the PM, then into the endosomal membranes and finally moves into the VM in living plant cells, the PM could be visualized just after pulse labeling for 2 min (Emans et al. CITATION, Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION). When the stomata were opened after light incubation for 2 h, the Arabidopsis guard cell and vacuolar volumes were about 870 and 560 μm3, respectively, with the vacuole occupying about 67% of the guard cell volume (Table 1). When epidermal peels were incubated in the dark for 2 h and the stomata closed, the pore widths decreased from about 3.0 to 1.4 μm (Fig. 5B), and the volumes of the guard cells and their vacuoles decreased to about 90 and 80% of the original values, respectively (Fig. 5C). Upon ABA application, the stomata closed within 5 min and their pore widths remained constant thereafter (Fig. 5B). In this condition, the volumes of both guard cells and their vacuoles decreased but the decrease in guard cell vacuoles appeared faster than that of the guard cells at the onset of stomatal closure (Table 1, Fig. 5C). In 5 min, both values reached the levels attained under dark incubation, although they continued to decrease even after stomatal closure.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] On the other hand, the surface area of the guard cell vacuoles increased by 20% upon ABA application whereas that of the guard cells decreased (Fig. 5D). Notably, the amount of increase in the vacuolar surface area was comparable with the decrease of the guard cell PM (Table 1). In contrast to dark incubation, the changes in surface area upon ABA application continued after stomatal closure, as with the changes in volumes. To investigate the membrane source that contributed to the increase in the surface area of the VM, we chased the movement of FM4-64 in V. faba guard cells. After 1 h of incubation in a buffer without ABA, the fluorescence was clearly detected near the PM (Fig. 6A, B) whereas guard cells incubated with ABA showed diffuse fluorescence in the cytoplasm (Fig. 6C, D). To monitor the activities of the endosomal pathway, the fluorescence intensities of the PM, VM and endosomes were measured. The acquired images (Fig. 6C) were firstly processed to reduce noise using a Gaussian filter (Fig. 6D), and ridge patterns were extracted by a thinning filter (Fig. 6E). The fluorescence intensity of the PM was measured at the cell periphery along epidermal cells. The VM was recognized after the ridge extraction as long curves (>20 pixels in Chebyshev distance). The endosomes were recognized as small particles [<10 pixels in full-width at half-maximum (FWHM)] in the cytosol (Fig. 6F, G). To quantify the activities of the endosomal pathway, the maximum values of the fluorescence intensity were measured. In control guard cells, the ratio of those in the PM, VM and endosomes was about 41, 15 and 44%, respectively. In the ABA-treated cells, these values were 34, 21 and 45%, respectively (Fig. 6H), in which the ratio of the maximum fluorescence intensity in the VM increased but that in the endosomes was comparable with that in control cells. Since we measured the maximum fluorescence intensities in each component, the comparable values in endosomes with or without ABA implied that the amount of FM4-64 in endosomes was saturated after 1 h incubation independently of ABA application. When we plotted the maximum fluorescence intensities against stomatal aperture, those in the PM decreased whereas those of the VM increased according to the stomatal closure (Fig. 6I).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The transgenic A. thaliana line (ecotype Columbia) expressing GFP–AtVAM3, kindly provided by Dr. M. H. Sato (Kyoto Prefectural University), was grown on soil–vermiculite in a growth chamber at 23°C with 60% humidity. The light and dark periods were 16 and 8 h, respectively, with 100 μmol m−2 s−1 white light. Fully expanded rosette leaves of 4- to 5-week-old plants after imbibition were used for experiments. Vicia faba plants were grown under the same conditions as the Arabidopsis plants, and fully expanded leaves from near the apex of 4- to 5-week-old plants were used. The abaxial epidermis of Arabidopsis or V. faba was peeled off and floated, inner surface facing down, on a buffer consisting of 10 mM KCl, 5 mM MES-Tris (pH 6.5) and 100 μM CaCl2. To monitor stomatal closure, the epidermal strips were incubated under white light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h to open the stomata and to apply 10 μM ABA (Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd, Osaka, Japan) to the buffer. To close the stomata under dark conditions, the epidermal strips were covered with aluminum foil for 2 h, and to open them chemically, 3 μM fusicoccin (Sigma Aldrich Japan Co., Tokyo, Japan) was applied to the buffer. After chemical treatment, the stomata were observed under a light microscope (BX-51, Olympus Co., Tokyo, Japan) and photographed with a CCD camera (DP-70, Olympus). Stomatal apertures were determined by measuring the inner width of the stomatal pore from the photographs. To observe the VM of the guard cells by vital staining, 10 μM N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-{6-[4-(diethylamino)phenyl]hexatrienyl}-pyridium dibromide (FM4-64; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) was applied to the buffer. After incubation for 1 h, the epidermal strips were washed with fresh buffer for 12 h and then monitored as described previously (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION). PM was monitored within 30 min after pulse labeling the epidermal strips with FM4-64 for 2 min and subsequent washing with fresh buffer. To quantify the activities of the endosomal pathway, epidermal peels of V. faba were incubated in the buffer used for incorporating FM4-64 for 2 min, and washed with fresh buffer with or without 10 μM ABA for 1 h. To observe the membrane structures, the epidermal strips were transferred into 35 mm Petri dishes with 14 mm coverslip windows at the bottom (Matsunami, Osaka, Japan). The dishes were placed onto the inverted platform of a fluorescence microscope (IX70, Olympus) equipped with a confocal laser scanning head and control systems (CLSM GB-200; Olympus) or a cooled CCD camera head system (Cool-SNAP HQ, PhotoMetrics, Huntington Beach, Canada). Structural changes were categorized on the basis of images observed by light microscopy (BX51, Olympus), using a fitted camera (DP70, Olympus). To quantify FM4-64 fluorescence in endosomal components, they were monitored using CLSM as described above. At image acquisition, all settings including pin-hole radius (0.95 Airy), photomultiplier tube voltage (1,100 mV) and pixel width (0.08 μm) were fixed. Acquired images were saved as 16-bit TIFF image files. The measurements of fluorescence at the PM, endosomes and VM were performed using ImageJ (Abramoff et al. CITATION). To reduce noise, a Gaussian filter (radius of 2 pixels) was applied to the original images. The fluorescence intensities of the PM, endosomes and VM were quantified from the pre-processed images. The intensity of the PM was measured at the cell periphery along the epidermal cell. To calculate ‘vacuolar complexity’, confocal images of guard cell cross-sections were taken at 0.5 μm intervals around the midplane of the vacuoles using the Arabidopsis GFP–AtVAM3 transgenic line. Parameters of vacuolar sectional area (Av) and perimeter (Pv) were obtained using ImageJ software (Abramoff et al. CITATION) and REANT software (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION). The complexity of vacuoles (Cv = Pv2/4πAv) was calculated from sectional areas and perimeters. To quantify vacuolar shape, regions of vacuoles were segmented from confocal images of guard cell cross-sections taken at 0.5 μm intervals using the Arabidopsis GFP–AtVAM3 transgenic line. Segmentation of the vacuolar region from the confocal image was performed manually and stored as a bi-level (black and white) image. 3-D structures were reconstructed using REANT. Once the 3-D data were reconstructed, the rendering of the 3-D images was performed using AMIRA software version 3.0 (TGS, San Diego, CA, USA). The volumes and surface areas were calculated by REANT from surface models. To stain the inside of vacuoles, 2′,7′-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein acetoxymethyl ester (BCECF-AM, Molecular Probes) was added to the buffer to a final concentration of 1 μM and incubated with epidermal strips for 2 h. The stained epidermal strips were monitored with a fluorescence microscope (BX51, Olympus) equipped with a CCD camera system (DP70, Olympus). Following observation and confirmation that BCECF fluorescence was limited to vacuolar lumens, photobleaching was performed by irradiating only a small area of the cell with a strong excitation light using an iris.
