!~ABS~! Brassinosteroids (BRs) are phytosteroid hormones controlling various physiological processes critical for normal growth and development. BRs are perceived by a protein complex containing two transmembrane receptor kinases, BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) and BRI1-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE 1 (BAK1) CITATION. BRI1 null mutants exhibit a dwarfed stature with epinastic leaves, delayed senescence, reduced male fertility, and altered light responses. BAK1 null mutants, however, only show a subtle phenotype, suggesting that functionally redundant proteins might be present in the Arabidopsis genome. Here we report that BAK1-LIKE 1 (BKK1) functions redundantly with BAK1 in regulating BR signaling. Surprisingly, rather than the expected bri1-like phenotype, bak1 bkk1 double mutants exhibit a seedling-lethality phenotype due to constitutive defense-gene expression, callose deposition, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and spontaneous cell death even under sterile growing conditions. Our detailed analyses demonstrate that BAK1 and BKK1 have dual physiological roles: positively regulating a BR-dependent plant growth pathway, and negatively regulating a BR-independent cell-death pathway. Both BR signaling and developmentally controlled cell death are critical to optimal plant growth and development, but the mechanisms regulating early events in these pathways are poorly understood. This study provides novel insights into the initiation and crosstalk of the two signaling cascades.
!~RES~! The model plant Arabidopsis contains a large family of proteins called leucine-rich-repeat receptor-like protein kinases (LRR-RLKs). A typical LRR-RLK contains a ligand-binding extracellular LRR domain and a cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinase domain. There are at least 223 LRR-RLKs in the Arabidopsis genome CITATION, only a handful of which have been functionally characterized. Those characterized have been shown to play critical roles in various processes directly modulating growth and development, as well as immunity responses CITATION. The discoveries of two LRR-RLKs, BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) and BRI1-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE 1 (BAK1), in controlling the early event of the brassinosteroid (BR)-signaling pathway, suggested that the heterodimerization of distinct LRR-RLKs after ligand binding could be a central paradigm in the activation of LRR-RLK-mediated signaling cascades CITATION. The biological significance of BRI1 has been well documented. Genetic analyses indicated that bri1 null alleles are extremely dwarfed and are insensitive to exogenous brassinolide (BL), the most active BR, but remain sensitive to other known phytohormones CITATION. Biochemical analyses demonstrated that the island segment and the 22nd LRR of the BRI1 extracellular domain together confer BR-binding activity CITATION, whereas the kinase domain of BRI1 activates downstream components by protein phosphorylation. BAK1 is a distinct LRR-RLK that contains only five LRRs and lacks the island region within its LRRs. BAK1 physically interacts with BRI1 in vivo CITATION. In addition, BRI1 and BAK1 are able to phosphorylate each other. Both the interaction and the phosphorylation of BRI1 and BAK1 are BR dependent CITATION. Unlike BRI1, however, null alleles of BAK1 display subtle bri1-like phenotypes, suggesting at least one additional protein in Arabidopsis is functionally redundant with BAK1 CITATION. BAK1 belongs to the LRR type II subfamily, which contains 14 members CITATION, five of which were previously named SERK1 to SERK5 ( CITATIONA; CITATION) because of the similarity of their protein structures to that of the carrot DcSERK CITATION. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that SERK4 and SERK5 are the two closest paralogs of BAK1/SERK3 (CITATIONA), and they might have biological functions similar to BAK1. Because overexpression of BAK1 is able to suppress a weak bri1 allele, bri1-5 CITATION, it was predicted that a BAK1 redundant gene would also suppress bri1-5 phenotypes when overexpressed. SERK4 and SERK5 were subsequently transformed into bri1-5 to test whether they can suppress bri1-5 upon overexpression. Like BAK1, SERK4—but not SERK5—was able to partially rescue bri1-5 when overexpressed (CITATIONB and 1C). SERK4 was subsequently renamed BAK1-LIKE 1 (BKK1). Further analyses indicated that Col-0 SERK5 bears an amino acid substitution of Leu for Arg at position 401 within the critical arginine/aspartate (RD) kinase motif, and this substitution might block the function of Col-0 SERK5 in the BR signaling pathway (CITATION in the CITATION available online; CITATION). Interestingly, the same mutation was not found in SERK5 from other Arabidopsis ecotypes, such as Wassilewskiji 2 (WS2) (data not shown). To examine the genetic significance of BAK1 and BKK1 in a real physiological setting, we isolated single T-DNA knockout lines from SALK T-DNA insertion pools. Several knockout lines were obtained for both genes. Only the lines directly relevant to this work are shown ( CITATIONA). Whereas a BAK1 null allele, bak1-4, showed a subtle bri1-like phenotype, a BKK1 null allele, bkk1-1, did not exhibit any defective phenotypes (CITATIONB–2E). The double-null mutant, bak1-4 bkk1-1, however, illustrated extremely dwarfed phenotypes, distinct from typical bri1 null mutants, such as bri1-4. During the first 4 days after germination, the double-null mutant showed no observable defective phenotypes compared to those of wild-type plants. A week after the germination, however, shoot apical meristem (SAM) growth of the double mutant almost completely ceased (CITATION). Ten days after germination, the seedlings showed early senescence symptoms starting at the cotyledons. Careful analysis of embryos from the progeny of bak1-4+/− bkk1-1−/− or bak1-4−/− bkk1-1+/− plants failed to identify any abnormal embryos during embryogenesis. It was expected that 25% of the embryos would be aberrant if bak1-4 bkk1-1 double mutations did affect zygotic embryogenesis. The onset of seedling lethality is, therefore, a postembryonic phenotype probably controlled by unknown developmental cues. The phenotypes observed in the double mutant were reproduced with different bak1 and bkk1 allele combinations from a Col-0 background (CITATION) and were restored to wild-type-like seedlings by the expression of either BAK1 or BKK1 (CITATIONF and 2G). Various genetic segregation analyses further demonstrated that the observed phenotype was solely caused by the double BAK1 and BKK1 knockouts (CITATION). The overexpression of BKK1 suppresses bri1-5 phenotypes, suggesting that BKK1 has a role in the BR signaling. To further substantiate the function of BKK1 in the BR pathway, we conducted a series of tests. To begin, we generated a BKK1 kinase-dead mutant, mBKK1 (K322E), and introduced it into bri1-5. Over 50% of the transgenic plants displayed dominant-negative phenotypes, with phenotypic severity positively correlated with the expression levels of the transgene ( CITATIONA and 3B). The most severe plants resembled the phenotypes of null bri1, characterized by extreme dwarfism and complete male sterility (data not shown). This result suggested that BKK1 might associate with BRI1 in vivo; this was subsequently confirmed by a coimmunoprecipitation analysis with transgenic plants harboring 35S-BKK1-GFP and 35S-BRI1-FLAG (CITATIONC). The interaction was greatly enhanced by exogenously applied BL. Moreover, biochemical analysis indicated that the in vivo phosphorylation levels of BKK1 were also regulated by exogenously applied BL (CITATIOND), similar to that of BAK1 CITATION and BRI1 (CITATIONE). The depletion of endogenous BRs by the treatment of seedlings (BKK1-GFP in bak1-4 bkk1-1 and BRI1-GFP in Col-0) for a week with the specific BR-biosynthesis inhibitor brassinazole (BRZ) CITATION showed basal levels of threonine phosphorylation on both BKK1 and BRI1. A 90 min treatment of these BRZ-pretreated seedlings with BL greatly increased phosphorylation levels on their threonine residues. These data demonstrated that BKK1 has biochemical properties similar to those of BAK1 in regulating the BR signal transduction. To further verify the physiological role of BKK1 in the BR signaling, we grew double and single mutants in the darkness. A typical BR mutant shows a de-etiolated phenotype when grown in darkness, including shortened hypocotyls and opened cotyledons. bak1-4, but not bkk1-1, showed weak de-etiolated phenotypes. Although the double mutants did not show additive effect on hypocotyl growth compared to that of the bak1 single mutant, they showed enhanced cotyledon opening phenotype similar to that of the null bri1 mutant, bri1-4 (CITATIONA–S4F). These results confirmed that BKK1 has a clear role in the BR signal transduction, but there should be additional proteins, aside from BAK1 and BKK1, involved in BR signal transduction. It was recently reported that SERK1 was part of the BRI1 and BAK1 complex and that it might also participate in BR signal transduction CITATION. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis indicated that BKK1 is expressed considerably less than are BAK1 and SERK1 in darkness, and this explains why BKK1 plays less of a role in controlling hypocotyl growth under the dark condition (CITATIONC). Because the bak1-4 bkk1-1 double mutant showed a seedling-lethality phenotype, a triple mutant was not generated in this study. To investigate the molecular mechanisms leading to the seedling-lethality phenotype of bak1-4 bkk1-1, we employed Affymetrix arrays to compare the global gene expression patterns of the 8-day-old double mutant with those of the Col-0 wild-type. Among the most significantly upregulated genes were those involved in defense responses. Representative upregulated defense- and senescence-related genes, PR1, PR2, PR5, ACS2, ACS6, and the downregulated gene, PDF1.2, were further analyzed by RT-PCR to examine whether the expression patterns were similar to those shown in bri1-4. If BAK1 and BKK1 are involved exclusively in the BR signaling, one would expect these genes to show similarly dramatic expression changes in both bri1-4 and bak1-4 bkk1-1. Interestingly, these defense- and senescence-related genes showed either no or opposite expression changes in bri1-4 ( CITATIONA). Because extreme dwarfism, constitutive defense-gene expression, early senescence, and seedling lethality are common phenotypes of cell-death mutants CITATION, various tissue-staining approaches were conducted to determine whether cell death is involved in the double-mutant seedlings. Interestingly, callose deposition (aniline-blue staining CITATION), cell death (trypan-blue staining CITATION), and the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROSs) (3, 3′-diaminobenzidine [DAB] staining CITATION) were all seen in the double-mutant seedlings but not in other seedlings from the same developmental stages (CITATIONB–4S). Many cell-death mutants, such as lsd1, showed a cell-death phenotype in a salicylic acid (SA)-dependent manner CITATION. To test whether the cell-death phenotype observed in bak1-4 bkk1-1 was also SA-dependent, we introduced the bacterial NahG gene into the double mutant by performing a genetic crossing with a transgenic Col-0 Arabidopsis plant expressing NahG CITATION. NahG encodes a salicylate hydroxylase that converts SA to catechol. The presence of the NahG transgene partially rescues the bak1-4 bkk1-1 double-mutant phenotype, suggesting that the cell-death phenotype in the double mutant was likely SA-dependent (CITATIONT–4V). Our extensive analyses demonstrated that BAK1 and BKK1 are not only involved in a BRI1-mediated pathway, but also involved in a BR-independent signaling pathway. The two pathways mediated by BAK1 and BKK1 showed some antagonistic features. For example, null bri1 mutants usually displayed prolonged life spans and a dark-green phenotype, whereas bak1 bkk1 double-mutant plants exhibited shortened a life span, early cotyledon senescence, and a cell-death phenotype. Expressions of senescence-related genes such as ACS2 and ACS6 are reduced in null bri1 mutants but enhanced in bak1 bkk1 double-null seedlings, relative to their wild-type backgrounds. The seedling-lethality phenotype of the double mutant is likely a consequence of the blocking of a second unknown BR-independent pathway. We hypothesize that BAK1 and BKK1 regulate BR-dependent and BR-independent pathways via an alternating interaction with BRI1 and/or another defense-related LRR-RLK ( CITATION). In wild-type plants, BAK1 and BKK1 positively regulate the BR-mediated cell-growth pathway and negatively regulate a defense-related cell-death pathway. In bak1-4 bkk1-1, the cell-death pathway is constitutively activated, leading to spontaneous cell death. This hypothesis is partially supported by an independent study from Nürnberger and colleagues CITATION, who recently found that BAK1 knockout alleles, bak1-3 and bak1-4, were more susceptible than the wild-type to several different pathogens. They similarly concluded that BAK1 was probably involved in a BR-independent immunity pathway CITATION. This model can also be used to explain several early observations. For example, it was reported that overexpression of CPD, a key gene regulating multiple steps in BR biosynthesis, could induce the expression of a number of defense-related genes CITATION. Early experiments also indicated that the application of BL induced senescence. It is likely that when the BR signaling pathway was enhanced, its antagonistic pathway was automatically reduced, leading to the upregulation of defense-related genes and cell death (CITATION). Developmentally controlled programmed cell death is critical for normal plant growth and development, as well as a defense against numerous biotic and abiotic stresses. It would be interesting to further define the second signaling pathway in which BAK1 and BKK1 are involved. If the hypothesis is correct, the alternative BAK/BKK1 binding partner should have roles in plant defense and/or cell-death control. To date, at least two LRR-RLKs are known to be involved in plant defense against pathogens in Arabidopsis. For instance, ERECTA has roles in both plant development and immunity CITATION, and FLS2 is involved in defense responses CITATION. In the future, it will be intriguing to investigate whether BAK1 and BKK1 dimerize with ERECTA or FLS2 to mediate their corresponding signaling pathways.
!~MM~! bri1-5 is in ecotype WS2. bak1-4 (SALK_116202), bkk1-1 (SALK_057955), and NahG transgenic plants were all in Col-0. Plants were grown at 22°C under 16 hr light/8 hr dark, unless otherwise specified. The BAK1 expression vector used was the same as previously reported CITATION. BKK1 and AtSERK5 cDNAs were amplified by RT-PCR from Col-0. The following primers were used: BKK1-fw 5′-TCTAGATCTATGGAACAAAGATCACTCCTTTGCT-3′, BKK1-rv 5′-TCTAGATCTTTATCTTGGACCCGAGGGGTAATCGT-3′, AtSERK5-fw 5′-TCTAGATCTATGGAACATGGATCATCCCGTGGCT-3′, and AtSERK5-rv 5′-TCTAGATCTTTATCTTGGCCCCGAGGGGTAATCGT-3′. The PCR products were cloned into the KpnI site of the binary vector pBIB-BASTA-35S. Constructs were transformed into bri1-5 by the floral dipping method CITATION. BAK1 and BKK1 cDNAs were also cloned into the KpnI and BamHI sites of the binary vector pBIB-BASTA-35S-GFP with the primers BAK1-fw 5′-TCTAGATCTATGGAACGAAGATTAATGATCCCT-3′, BAK1-rv 5′-TCTGGATCCTCTTGGACCCGAGGGGTATTCGTT-3′, BKK1-fw and BKK1-rv2 5′-TCTGGATCCTCTTGGACCCGAGGGGTAATCGT-3′. The constructs were all confirmed by sequencing analysis. Two micrograms of total RNA was reverse transcribed in a 20 μl volume with Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Two microliters of first-strand cDNA was used for RT-PCR with Ex Taq polymerase (Takara). A preliminary experiment was performed to determine the exponential range of each individual gene. The PCR cycles used were BAK1 22, BKK1 22, AtSERK5 28, PR1 30, PR2 30, PR5 22, ACS2 26, ACS6 22, PDF1.2 30, and EF1α 19, respectively. The primers for BAK1 and paralogs were the same as those used for cloning. The primers for defense-related genes and senescence-related genes were the same as previously reported CITATION. Five grams of liquid-cultured seedlings was ground in liquid N2 as previously described CITATION. Various treatments with 1 μM BRZ or 1 μM BL and membrane-protein isolation were the same as previously reported CITATION. BKK1-GFP was immunoprecipitated from solubilized total membrane protein with anti-GFP mouse antibody (Invitrogen) followed by a pull-down process with protein G beads (Roche). GFP-immunoprecipitated membrane proteins were separated with 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Various antibodies of α-GFP, α-FLAG, and α-phosphothreonine and western-analysis procedures were all the same as previously described CITATION. BKK1 was cloned into the Gateway donor vector pDONR/zeo (Invitrogen) to generate pENTR-BKK1. PCR was conducted with pENTR-BKK1 as a template and primers 5′-AATCTAGTGGCTGTCGAAAGGCTAAAAGAAGAA-3′ and 5′-TTCTTCTTTTAGCCTTTCGACAGCCACTAGATT-3′. The mutation was confirmed by sequencing analysis. The obtained pENTR-mBKK1 was further cloned into pBIB-BASTA-35S-GFP with a Gateway strategy for transformation. Tissue stainings with aniline blue (0.01%, Sigma), trypan blue (1.25mg/ml, Sigma), and DAB (1mg/ml, Sigma) were the same as previously reported CITATION.
