!~ABS~! Jasmonates are essential phytohormones for plant development and survival. However, the molecular details of their signalling pathway remain largely unknown. The identification more than a decade ago of COI1 as an F-box protein suggested the existence of a repressor of jasmonate responses that is targeted by the SCFCOI1 complex for proteasome degradation in response to jasmonate. Here we report the identification of JASMONATE-INSENSITIVE 3 (JAI3) and a family of related proteins named JAZ (jasmonate ZIM-domain), in Arabidopsis thaliana. Our results demonstrate that JAI3 and other JAZs are direct targets of the SCFCOI1 E3 ubiquitin ligase and jasmonate treatment induces their proteasome degradation. Moreover, JAI3 negatively regulates the key transcriptional activator of jasmonate responses, MYC2. The JAZ family therefore represents the molecular link between the two previously known steps in the jasmonate pathway. Furthermore, we demonstrate the existence of a regulatory feed-back loop involving MYC2 and JAZ proteins, which provides a mechanistic explanation for the pulsed response to jasmonate and the subsequent desensitization of the cell.
!~RES~! Life on earth relies on a complex equilibrium of biotic and abiotic interactions. Plant small signalling molecules such as the jasmonates, structurally similar to prostaglandins in metazoans (CITATION) , are essential for plant survival in nature, and thus contribute to modulation of this equilibrium. Jasmonates (jasmonic acid and other oxylipin derivatives) are key regulators of plant responses to environmental stresses and biotic challenges, such as ozone exposure, wounding, water deficit, and pathogen and pest attack (CITATION) . They are also involved in important plant developmental processes, such as root growth, tuberization, fruit ripening, tendril coiling, reproductive development and senescence (CITATION) . Their importance beyond the plant kingdom has been recently highlighted by their suggested anti-cancer activity in humans (CITATION) . More than four decades after the discovery of methyl jasmonate as a major lipid constituent of the jasmine scent (CITATION) , understanding of the biosynthetic (octadecanoid) pathway of jasmonates from linolenic acid is now well established (CITATION) . In contrast, our current knowledge about the jasmonate signalling pathway lags behind (CITATION) . Efforts to dissect the signalling pathway have defined two steps. The first one comprises components and regulators of SCF (Skip/Cullin/Fbox) E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes (SCFCOI1) (CITATION) . The second step is defined by transcription factors, such as MYC2 and ERF1, which orchestrate the expression of jasmonate-related effector genes (CITATION) . However, these two steps remain unlinked and major questions about the molecular details of the jasmonate signalling pathway remain unanswered. For example, the jasmonate receptor is unknown, the link between jasmonate perception and SCFCOI1 is unidentified, and the connection between this SCF complex and the activation of transcription factors remains unresolved. The existence of these two types of jasmonate-signalling components has led to the hypothesis that activation of jasmonate responses by transcription factors requires ubiquitin-mediated degradation of a repressor that is targeted to the 26S proteasome by the SCFCOI1 after jasmonate perception. However, more than a decade after the molecular identification of COI1, the F-box component of the SCFCOI1 complex, the identity of this hypothetical repressor remains unknown. Here we report the identification of JASMONATE-INSENSITIVE 3 (JAI3) and show that it belongs to a novel family of jasmonate-regulated nuclear targets of SCFCOI1, named JAZ (jasmonate ZIM-domain) proteins. JAI3 and other JAZs physically interact with COI1, and jasmonate treatment induces their SCFCOI1-dependent proteasome degradation. The jai3-1 allele encodes a mutant protein resistant to degradation that also inhibits degradation of the wild-type JAI3 and other JAZs, explaining its dominant jasmonate-insensitive phenotype. Additionally, JAI3 and JAZ1 interact with MYC2, the key transcriptional activator of jasmonate-regulated gene expression, suggesting a model of JAI3/JAZ action as repressors of MYC2. Our results demonstrate that JAZs are direct targets of the SCFCOI1, linking ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation to transcriptional activation of jasmonate responses. Moreover, our results show that MYC2 and JAZs are involved in a negative regulatory feed-back loop that provides a mechanistic explanation for the pulsed response to jasmonate and the subsequent desensitization of the cell.
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions in vitro (in Johnson's media) and in soil were as previously described (CITATION) . pDONR201/207 and pGWB5 (ref. 32) were used to generate 35S-JAI3–GFP and 35S-JAI3ΔC–GFP constructs. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants in Col-0 and coi1-1 backgrounds were obtained by the floral-dip method (CITATION) . GFP was visualized by fluorescence microscopy using digital module-R and confocal microscopes. JAI3, JAI3ΔC, JAZ1 and JAZ9 proteins (and proteins used for pull-down assays) were obtained and labelled by in vitro translation using TNT wheat germ extract systems in the presence of [35S]methionine. Labelled proteins were incubated at 30 °C with plant extracts (100 µg of total protein extract in 50 mM TrisHCl, pH 7.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM ATP and 50 µg µl-1 ubiquitin) with or without proteasome specific inhibitor MG132 or jasmonate, as indicated. Coding sequences for full-length and truncated proteins (Supplementary Fig. 3) were PCR amplified from plasmid templates (Supplementary Table 3), cloned into pDONR201/207 and recombined in pDEST-TH1 (CITATION) to obtain N-terminal MBP-fusions. Recombinant proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified according to standard protocols. In each pull-down experiment 5 µg of fusion protein was added to 10–20 µl of in vitro-translated protein in 300 µl of incubation buffer. Yeast strain constructions using the same genes and gene fragments as outlined within the pull-down methods were generated using vectors pDEST 32 and pDEST 22. Vectors containing the appropriate JAI3 or MYC2 fragments (described in Supplementary Fig. 3) were co-transformed into Saccharomyces cerevisiae (AH109) following standard heat shock protocols (CITATION) . Successfully transformed colonies were identified on appropriate selective minimal agar. Microarray profiles were obtained as described (CITATION) . Genes were clustered using TIGR multi experiment viewer with Pearson’s uncentred distance and complete linkage. For the electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), DNA was labelled with biotin using the Pierce’s Lightshift Chemiluminescent EMSA Kit. DNA binding and EMSA were performed as previously described (CITATION) . Sequences of the JAI3 promoter and mutated versions are described in Supplementary Table 2. All the Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this work were in a Col-0 genetic background, including jai3-2 and jai3-3 knockout lines (SALK_139337 and SALK_067825) (CITATION) , which were obtained from NASC. Plant growth conditions in vitro (in Johnson's media) and in soil were as previously described (CITATION) . A concentration of 50 μM was used in all jasmonate treatments. The JAI3 coding sequence was amplified with High-Fidelity Taq-polimerase (Roche) from plasmid templates (Ambion MessageAmp kit), using Gateway-compatible primers (Supplementary Table 3). PCR products were cloned into pDONR201/207 with a Gateway BP II kit (Invitrogen) and sequenced (ABI PRISM 3700; Applied Biosystems). A Gateway LR II kit (Invitrogen) and the destination vector pGWB5 (ref. 32) were used to generate 35S-JAI3–GFP and 35S-JAI3ΔC–GFP. These constructs were then transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 carrying the pGV2260 (ref. 40) by heat shock and Arabidopsis Col-0 plants were transformed by floral dipping (CITATION) . Transgenic 35S-JAI3–GFP and 35S-JAI3ΔC–GFP plants were treated with 50 μM jasmonate (Sigma) with or without the specific proteasome inhibitor MG132 (100 μM) (Sigma). Two hours after treatment, roots were observed and GFP was visualized by fluorescence microscopy using DMR and confocal microscopes (Leica). Photographs of cells expressing the GFP were taken as previously described (CITATION) . Nicotiana benthamiana plants were infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 strain carrying the 35S-JAI3 and 35S-JAI3ΔC constructs as previously described (CITATION) . Briefly, Agrobacterium cultures were applied with a syringe to the underside of three leaves of 4-week-old plants. Two days later agroinfiltrated leaves were treated with 50 μM jasmonate with or without 100 μM MG132. Leaves were observed 24 h after treatment. GFP was visualized as outlined within the in vivo protein degradation method. Low-resolution gene mapping was performed as previously described (CITATION) by using 50 F2 phenotypically mutant plants derived from a jai3-1/jai3-1 × Ler cross. Novel In/Del (http://www.arabidopsis.org/browse/Cereon/index.jsp) and SSLP markers (CITATION) were used to map a population of 415 F2 plants, delimiting JAI3 to a region of 400 kb that encompassed 7 overlapping BAC clones. Seven genes within this region were regulated by jasmonate, with At3g17860 being the most highly induced. On the basis of these data and previous analysis (B. Thines and J. Browse, personal communication) a candidate approach allowed us to identify At3g17860 as the mutated gene in the jai3-1 mutant (Fig. 1b and Supplementary Fig. 1). Sequencing of this candidate revealed the described mutation. JAI3, JAI3ΔC, JAZ1 and JAZ9 proteins were expressed from a plasmid template under a T3 promoter in the TNT-coupled wheat germ extract system (Promega) or using TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA (Promega) in the presence of [35S]methionine (GE Healthcare). For extract preparation, seedlings (pre-treated with jasmonate and/or MG132 during 12 h) were ground in liquid nitrogen, resuspended in buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 25 mM NaCl, 0.01% Nonidet-40 and protease inhibitors (Sigma)), sonicated and clarified by centrifugation. Protein concentration was determined by the Bradford method and 100 µg of total protein was added to the reaction mix (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM ATP, 50 µg µl-1 ubiquitin and in vitro translated [35S] labelled protein). Incubation was performed at 30 °C in the presence of a protease inhibitor cocktail for different times with or without 200 µM MG132 or 50 µM jasmonate, as indicated. The reaction was stopped by adding loading buffer at 4 °C, boiled at 95 °C and run on SDS gels. Quantification of the gels and analysis of the images was performed on a Phosphorimager using the ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/index.html). Coding sequences for full-length COI1, JAI3 and MYC2, and the JAI3ΔC (amino acids 1–298), JAI3ΔN (amino acids 208–352), MYC2ΔC (amino acids 1–333) and MYC2ΔN (amino acids 181–624) truncated proteins were PCR amplified from plasmid templates, maintaining the frame and stop codons (see Supplementary Table 3 for primer sequences). Using the Gateway system (Invitrogen) these amplicons were cloned into pDONR201/pDONR207 and recombined in pDEST-TH1 (ref. 34) to obtain N-terminal MBP-fusions. All constructs were verified by sequencing before protein expression. In vitro synthesis of full-length COI1, JAI3, JAZ1 and MYC2 proteins was achieved using a plasmid template with the TNT Coupled Wheat Germ Extract System (Promega) in the presence of [35S]methionine. JAI3 and MYC2 truncated proteins (as above) were in vitro expressed and radiolabelled using PCR products containing a T7 promoter as template with the TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA kit (Promega). Recombinant MBP-fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 cells and purified in amylose resin (New England Biolabs) columns according to standard protocols although without elution. In each pull-down experiment 10–20 µl of in vitro translated protein in 300 µl of incubation buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, containing 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.2% Nonidet P40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, protease inhibitor cocktail) were added to 5 µg of resin-bound fusion protein. After 90 min incubation at room temperature, and under rotation, the samples were washed 6 times for 3 min each in fresh incubation buffer. The washed amylose resin was resuspended in 30 µl of SDS–PAGE loading buffer containing maltose. Following boiling for 5 min, the samples were loaded on SDS–PAGE. The bound radiolabelled proteins were detected using a Phosphorimager. Yeast strain constructs using the same genes and gene fragments as outlined within the pull-down methods were generated using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) (see Supplementary Table 3 for primer sequences). Vectors pDEST 32 (Gal4 DNA-Binding Domain; BD) and pDEST 22 (Gal4 Activation Domain; AD) containing the appropriate JAI3 or MYC2 fragments (Fig. 3) were co-transformed into Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH 109 cells following standard heat shock protocols (CITATION) . Successfully transformed colonies were identified on appropriate selective minimal agar (Minimal synthetic dropout Agar Base) containing 2% glucose and 5 mM 3AT (predetermined as sufficient to obviate false positives). β-galactosidase indicator plates contained an additional 40 mg l-1 X-gal (4’-bromo-5’-chlor-3′-indolyl-β-D-galactoside) and 70 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in Johnson's media at 25 °C and a light cycle of 16 h light:8 h dark. Ten-day-old seedlings were treated (or not) with 50 µM jasmonate as specified below and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Twelve comparisons were made between jasmonate-treated jai3-1 and wild-type; 8 comparisons after 2 h of jasmonate treatment and 4 comparisons after 6 h. mRNA levels in wild-type and pooled samples of the jin1-1 and jin1-2 mutants were compared after 6 h of jasmonate treatment (4 replicates). mRNA levels were compared between 35S-MYC2 transgenic lines and wild-type without any treatment (four replicates). Finally, genes differentially expressed in response to jasmonate treatment (30 min) were determined by comparing the transcriptomic profiles of wild-type treated and non-treated plants (14 replicates). RNA amplification, microarray hybridization and scanning were performed as previously reported (CITATION) . Briefly, RNA was amplified with the MessageAmp II aRNA kit (Ambion) and 5-(3-aminoallyl)-2’deoxyuridine-5’-triphosphate (aa-dUTP, Ambion) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Microarray slides of synthetic 70mer oligonucleotides were obtained from the University of Arizona (Operon Arabidopsis Genome Oligo Set Version 3.0 (Qiagen) spotted on aminosilane-coated slides (Telechem)). For each hybridization, equal amounts of dye of each aRNA labelled with either Cy3 or Cy5, were mixed with 20 µg of polyA and 20 µg of yeast transfer RNA (Sigma-Aldrich) and treated with the RNA Fragmentation Reagents (Ambion). Images from Cy3 and Cy5 channels were equilibrated and captured with a GenePix 4000B (Axon) and spots quantified using GenPix Pro 5.1 software (Axon). Background correction and normalization of expression data were performed as previously reported (CITATION) . Linear model methods were used for determining differentially expressed genes. To control the false-discovery rate, P values were corrected by using the method of Benjamani and Hochberg (CITATION) . Criteria for selection of differentially expressed genes in Fig. 3 were log ratio <-0.5 and false-discovery rate ≤10%. The hierarchical cluster was calculated and drawn using the TIGR MeV (Multiarray experiment viewer) (CITATION) software provided by the TIGR Institute, with Pearson’s uncentred distance and complete linkage. Motif Analysis (TAIR) and Motif Sampler (CITATION) were used for the identification of sequences statistically over-represented in the promoters. Scores of sequences shown in Fig. 3 are: consensus score, 1.75; information content, 1.97; log likelihood score, 98.13; and in Fig. 5 are: consensus score, 1.59; information content, 1.76; log likelihood score, 73. Motif Analysis (TAIR) also identified the T/G-box (CACGTT / AACGTG) as the sequence most over-represented (P value 7.19 × 10-7) (Fig. 3). Sequence analyses were carried out as previously described (CITATION) . Briefly, alignments of protein sequences were generated using DiAlign (Genomatix) and ClustalW (EBI). Conserved amino acids were then coloured by BoxShade (EMBnet). Phenogram representation of the neighbour-joining tree of the JAZ family was created by Phylodendron (http://iubio.bio.indiana.edu/treeapp/treeprint-form.html).
