!~ABS~! Jasmonate and related signalling compounds have a crucial role in both host immunity and development in plants, but the molecular details of the signalling mechanism are poorly understood. Here we identify members of the jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) protein family as key regulators of jasmonate signalling. JAZ1 protein acts to repress transcription of jasmonate-responsive genes. Jasmonate treatment causes JAZ1 degradation and this degradation is dependent on activities of the SCFCOI1 ubiquitin ligase and the 26S proteasome. Furthermore, the jasmonoyl–isoleucine (JA–Ile) conjugate, but not other jasmonate-derivatives such as jasmonate, 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid, or methyl-jasmonate, promotes physical interaction between COI1 and JAZ1 proteins in the absence of other plant proteins. Our results suggest a model in which jasmonate ligands promote the binding of the SCFCOI1 ubiquitin ligase to and subsequent degradation of the JAZ1 repressor protein, and implicate the SCFCOI1–JAZ1 protein complex as a site of perception of the plant hormone JA–Ile.
!~RES~! Jasmonate is the prototypical member of a class of related oxylipin signalling molecules (collectively referred to as jasmonates) that have overlapping roles in regulating both stress responses and development in plants (CITATION) . Stress responses that depend on jasmonate signalling not only include defence against insects and pathogens (CITATION) but also responses to ultraviolet radiation, ozone and other abiotic stresses (CITATION) . In healthy, unwounded plant tissue, jasmonate is involved in carbon partitioning, mechanotransduction, senescence, and reproductive development (CITATION) . This wide spectrum of action mirrors, to some extent, that for prostaglandins, which are chemically related to jasmonate (CITATION) . The jasmonate-dependent responses are associated with large-scale reprogramming of gene expression and hundreds of downstream jasmonate-regulated and co-regulated genes have been identified (CITATION) . Much of our knowledge about jasmonate action comes from Arabidopsis mutants that are deficient in jasmonate synthesis or unable to respond to jasmonate (CITATION) . Importantly, the Arabidopsis mutant coi1 is deficient in all jasmonate responses (CITATION) . The discovery that COI1 encodes an F-box protein led to the suggestion (CITATION) that core jasmonate signalling and responses depend on actions of an Skp/Cullin/F-box complex (SCFCOI1)—a type of E3 ubiquitin ligase (CITATION) . This hypothesis has been supported by investigations of additional mutants (CITATION) . It is therefore likely that jasmonate signalling involves ubiquitination of specific target proteins by the SCFCOI1 complex and their subsequent degradation by the 26S proteasome (CITATION) . Unfortunately, extensive genetic screens for positive effectors (CITATION) , negative effectors (CITATION) and components downstream of COI1 (ref. 11), as well as searches for COI1-interacting proteins (CITATION) have so far failed to identify viable candidates for SCFCOI1 targets. Transcript profiling experiments that have identified jasmonate-responsive (CITATION) and COI1-dependent genes (CITATION) have also failed to provide candidates, or other clues about the precise connection between SCFCOI1 and the jasmonate-regulated transcriptomes. Here we report the discovery of a family of jasmonate ZIM-domain proteins (JAZ) that include key components of jasmonate signalling. Molecular and biochemical characterization of Arabidopsis thaliana JAZ1 and a tomato orthologue supports a model in which JAZ proteins function as repressors of jasmonate signalling and are degraded through the SCFCOI1-dependent 26S proteasome pathway. Protein–protein interaction studies indicate that jasmonoyl–isoleucine (JA–Ile) specifically promotes COI1–JAZ1 interaction in the absence of other plant proteins. Our results therefore implicate the COI1–JAZ complex as a site of perception for JA–Ile, and provide the basis for understanding the multifaceted effects of jasmonates on plant development and immunity.
!~MM~! The production of GFP, GUS, JAZ1-deletion and COI1–Myc constructs followed standard molecular biology protocols. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral-dip method (CITATION) . Characterization of JAZ1Δ3A transgenics used protocols that were based on previous experiments with coi1 and jasmonate-synthesis mutants (CITATION) . For the gel-blot shown in Fig. 2h, wild-type, JAZ1Δ3A and coi1 plants were treated with 10 μM jasmonate for 6 h. Roots of plants expressing GUS reporter constructs were treated for 1 h with 100 μM of MeJA. Pre-treatment with 10 μM of MG132 as indicated was also for 1 h. Histochemical GUS staining was carried out as described (CITATION) , and the results observed under a Leica MZ8 dissecting microscope. Y2H experiments were conducted using the MatchMaker system (Clontech). Protein–protein interactions in transformed yeast cells were assessed on agar medium containing various jasmonate derivatives at 30 μM. For protein pull-down experiments, assays contained leaf extract from 35S-COI1–Myc tomato plants (∼1 mg total protein) and 100 μg recombinant JAZ1–His (fused to maltose-binding protein at the amino terminus) in 300 μl. Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen) was used to bind JAZ1–His. After washing and elution with imidazole, proteins were separated by electrophoresis, transferred to PVDF membrane and probed with anti-c-Myc antibody (Roche) (CITATION) .  Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type, opr3 (ref. 27), and coi1-1 (ref. 9) plants were grown on soil under continuous illumination (100 µE m-2 s–1) at 22 oC. In all experiments, wild type refers to the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype except in Supplementary Fig. 1, for which the Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype was used. Plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION) . In cases where seedlings were used for experiments, surface-sterilized seeds were sown on media containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (Sigma) and 1% sucrose, solidified with 0.8% agar. Seedlings were grown in Petri dishes held vertically so roots grew along the agar surface, and used for experiments seven days after sowing. For experiments on the effects of jasmonate on root growth, the agar contained 25 μM of jasmonate as the methyl ester (Bedoukian Chemical). Techniques and primers used for the production of GFP-fusion, GUS-fusion and JAZ1Δ3A deletion constructs and the transformation of plants are included in Supplementary Information. Histochemical GUS staining was carried out essentially as described by ref. 30. Seven-day-old seedlings were taken from plates and immersed in cold 90% acetone and kept on ice until all samples were collected. Samples were incubated for at least 20 mins at room temperature, and then washed in solution of 0.05 M sodium phosphate buffer pH7.2, 0.2% Triton X-100, 2 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 2 mM potassium ferricyanide. Washing solution was removed and staining solution (washing solution plus 2 mM X-Gluc) was added, and samples were incubated overnight at 37 °C. Staining solution was removed and the samples were subject to a series of ethanol washes: 20%, 35%, 50% at room temperature for 30 minutes each. Seedlings were fixed in a solution of 50% ethanol, 10% glacial acetic acid and 5% formaldehyde for 30 minutes, and then stored in 70% ethanol. Stained tissue was visualized under a Leica MZ8 dissecting microscope. Techniques used to genotype the transgenic and mutant plants are described under Supplementary Information. Pollen viability was tested on plates containing 17% (w/v) sucrose, 1 mM CaCl2, and 102 mg l-1 boric acid, pH 7.0, solidified with 0.6% (w/v) agarose. Pollen was applied to the medium by touching dehisced or cut anthers to the surface. Plates were incubated in the dark at room temperature for 16–20 h, and then scored for pollen germination. Seven-day-old seedlings grown on plates (see above) were placed in half-strength MS salts, pH 5.8. For jasmonate treatments, the medium was supplemented with 100 μM jasmonate, as the methyl ester. A broad-spectrum protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma) did not provide for increased GUS staining, or alter the effect of jasmonate (data not shown). For pretreatment with MG132, the medium was supplemented with 10 μM MG132 (Calbiochem). After addition of jasmonate, seedlings were gently shaken for one hour before GUS staining. Seedlings of the JAZ1–GUS line were also treated with indole acetic acid (20 μM; 1 h), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (5 μM; 1 h) and gibberellic acid (50 μM; 1 h), but these hormone treatments did not cause any observable decrease in GUS staining (data not shown). The Arabidopsis COI1 (AtCOI1) and tomato COI1 (SlCOI1) genes were cloned into the Y2H ‘bait’ vector pGilda (Clontech). The Arabidopsis (AtJAZ1) and tomato (SlJAZ1) JAZ genes were cloned into the Y2H ‘prey’ vector pB42AD (Clontech). Bait and prey gene constructs were co-transformed into yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) strain EGY48 (p8opLacz). Protein–protein interactions in transformed yeast cells were assessed on agar medium containing various jasmonate derivatives at a concentration of 30 μM (see Supplementary Information for details). Construction of the transgenic 35S-COI1–Myc tomato line is described in the Supplementary Information. Leaflets from 2–3-week-old 35S-COI1–Myc tomato plants were ground to a fine powder in liquid N2. Protein was extracted in homogenization buffer containing 50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.6, 100 mM NaCl, 25 mM imidazole, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20, 20 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 10 μM MG132, and the EDTA-free complete miniprotease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Insoluble debris was removed by centrifugation at 14,000g for 10 min at 4 °C. Each pull-down assay contained ∼1 mg of total tomato protein and 100 μg of recombinant JAZ1–His (see Supplementary Information) in a total volume of 300 μl. Reactions were incubated, with gentle rocking, for 30 min at 4 °C in the absence or presence of various jasmonate derivatives. Following the addition of 80 μl of Ni-NTA Resin (Qiagen), the reaction was incubated for an additional 15 min at 4 °C. Ni-NTA resin was recovered by centrifugation on a spin column (Biorad) and washed three times with 250 μl of homogenization buffer. The affinity resin was eluted with 30 μl of a solution containing 250 mM imidazole. The eluted protein was separated by SDS-PAGE on a 12% gel, transferred to PVDF membrane, and probed with an anti-c-Myc antibody (Roche) as previously described (CITATION) . The amount of COI1–Myc recovered in the absence of JA–Ile varied between experiments, most likely as a result of differences in endogenous levels of JA–Ile or other active compounds in the tomato extract. Control experiments showed that COI1–Myc was not recovered from pull-down reactions containing JA–Ile but lacking recombinant JAZ1–His, or from reactions containing a maltose-binding-protein–His fusion in place of JAZ–His (data not shown). (±)-Jasmonic acid (J2500) and MeJA (392707) were purchased from Sigma. 12-OPDA was chemically synthesized as previously described (CITATION) . Jasmonoyl–amino-acid conjugates were kindly provided by R. Kramell. Conjugates were synthesized by reaction of (±)-jasmonate with the corresponding L-amino acid, followed by purification of (-)-jasmonate–L-amino-acid isomers by chiral HPLC (CITATION) .
