!~ABS~! Here we identify the BAP1 and BAP2 genes of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) as general inhibitors of programmed cell death (PCD) across the kingdoms. These two homologous genes encode small proteins containing a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding C2 domain. BAP1 and its functional partner BON1 have been shown to negatively regulate defense responses and a disease resistance gene SNC1. Genetic studies here reveal an overlapping function of the BAP1 and BAP2 genes in cell death control. The loss of BAP2 function induces accelerated hypersensitive responses but does not compromise plant growth or confer enhanced resistance to virulent bacterial or oomycete pathogens. The loss of both BAP1 and BAP2 confers seedling lethality mediated by PAD4 and EDS1, two regulators of cell death and defense responses. Overexpression of BAP1 or BAP2 with their partner BON1 inhibits PCD induced by pathogens, the proapototic gene BAX, and superoxide-generating paraquat in Arabidopsis or Nicotiana benthamiana. Moreover, expressing BAP1 or BAP2 in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) alleviates cell death induced by hydrogen peroxide. Thus, the BAP genes function as general negative regulators of PCD induced by biotic and abiotic stimuli including reactive oxygen species. The dual roles of BAP and BON genes in repressing defense responses mediated by disease resistance genes and in inhibiting general PCD has implications in understanding the evolution of plant innate immunity.
!~RES~! Blast search revealed a gene At2g45760 with homology to BAP1 in Arabidopsis and we named it as BAP2. Using reverse transcription-PCR, we isolated a cDNA of BAP2 and found that it encodes a small protein of 207 amino acids containing a C2 domain at the amino terminus and a short segment at the carboxyl terminus. The deduced BAP1 and BAP2 proteins are 54% identical with homology at both the C2 domain and the C-terminal segment (Fig. 1A ). [[FIGURE]] RNA-blot analysis indicates that BAP2 is expressed at a lower level than BAP1 (data not shown), which is consistent with the transcriptional profiling data available from The Arabidopsis Information Resource links (http://Arabidopsis.org/). BAP2 is under a similar regulation at the transcript level as BAP1. Both genes are up-regulated by infections from Botrytis cinerea, nematode, and Pseudomonas syringae, treatments of chemicals (AgNO3, chitin, cycloheximide, ozone, syringolin), and salt stress. They are also both up-regulated in the loss-of-function bon1-1 mutant (referred as bon1 from now on) and have a higher expression level at lower temperatures (CITATION; data not shown). To assess the spatial expression pattern of BAP2, we fused the promoter of BAP2 with the GUS reporter gene and generated transgenic plants carrying pBAP2∷GUS. GUS staining of representative transgenic lines showed that pBAP2∷GUS was ubiquitously expressed throughout the plants including leaves, stems, roots, and inflorescences, with higher activities in relatively young tissues (Fig. 1B). This pattern resembles that of pBAP1∷GUS (Fig. 1B), suggesting that the BAP1 and BAP2 genes have similar spatial expression domains. To determine whether BAP2 has a similar biochemical function to BAP1, we expressed BAP2 in the loss-of-function bap1-1 mutant (referred as bap1 from now on) under the control of the strong constitutive 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV). While bap1 has small and curly leaves compared to the wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0; referred as Col from now on), p35S∷BAP2 transgenic lines in bap1-1 are essentially wild type in appearance (Fig. 1C), indicating that the BAP2 protein has a similar biochemical activity to BAP1. Previous studies demonstrated that the BAP1 protein interacts with the BON1 protein in vitro and that they likely act as partners in vivo (CITATION; CITATION). We asked whether BAP2 can interact with BON1 as well by using the yeast two-hybrid system (CITATION). BAP1 and BAP2 were each fused to the DNA-binding domain of the GAL4 transcription factor to generate GBD:BAP1 and GBD:BAP2 fusion proteins, respectively, while the A domain of BON1 was fused with the activation domain of GAL4 to generate GAD:BON1A. Coexpression of GBD:BAP2 with GAD:BON1A conferred growth to the yeast host strain on medium selecting for protein-protein interactions, similarly to that of GBD:BAP1 and GAD:BON1A (Fig. 1D), indicating a direct interaction between the BON1 and BAP2 proteins. Because BON2 and BON3 have overlapping functions with BON1 (CITATION), we further determined whether BAP1 and BAP2 can interact with BON2 or BON3 in the yeast two-hybrid system. Coexpression of GBD:BAP1 or GBD:BAP2 with GAD:BON2A and GAD:BON3A, respectively, conferred yeast growth on the selection medium (Fig. 1D). It thus appears that each member of the BON family can interact with each member of the BAP family. Assessed by yeast growth, the strength of interaction differs among these protein pairs, with the weakest interaction found between BAP2 and BON2 and the strongest one found between BON1 and BAP1. These differences are yet to be validated with the analysis of expression and stability of these proteins in yeasts. To elucidate the function of BAP2, we isolated a T-DNA insertion mutant of BAP2 (SALK_052789) from the SALK collection. The T-DNA was inserted in the nucleotide sequence corresponding to Gln 67 of the encoded BAP2 protein (Fig. 1A), and no BAP2 transcript was observed by RNA-blot analysis (data not shown). This loss-of-function mutant, named as bap2-4 (referred as bap2 from now on), did not exhibit any obvious growth defects, in contrast to the bap1 mutant (Fig. 1E). However, an accelerated HR was observed in bap2 compared to Col for P. syringae pv tomato (Pst) DC3000 expressing AvrRpt2. Col wild type and bap2 were inoculated with a high concentration of Pst DC3000 carrying avrRpt2. At 8 h postinoculation (hpi), none of the Col leaves showed HR, while 50% of the bap2 leaves already had HR at this time (Fig. 1, F and G). At 12 h, 90% of the bap2 leaves exhibited HR while only 10% of the wild-type leaves showed HR (Fig. 1G). To reveal possible overlapping functions between BAP1 and BAP2, we attempted to generate double mutants between bap2 and bap1. However, plants with the bap1bap2 genotype could not be identified from the F2 progenies of a cross between bap1 and bap2, suggesting that the homozygous mutant is either embryonic or seedling lethal. We subsequently sowed the progenies of double mutants (one heterozygous and the other homozygous) on agar plates, and found 39 out of 164 bap1bap2/+ and 52 out of 194 from bap1/+bap2 seeds germinated but soon died at the cotyledon stage (Fig. 1H). Again, no surviving seedlings were bap1bap2, confirming that the double mutant is seedling lethal. We observed dominant interactions between the bap1 and bap2 mutants. bap1 is a recessive mutant with a mild growth defect (CITATION) and bap2 has no obvious growth defect. However, heterozygous mutants of bap1 and bap2 each enhanced the phenotypes of the homozygous mutants of the other (Fig. 1I). The bap1/+bap2 mutant had small and slightly curly leaves in contrast to the wild-type-looking bap2 mutant. After bolting, its primary shoot frequently bended at the tip and died afterward. Multiple lateral shoots usually generated subsequently, giving a bushy phenotype. The bap1bap2/+ mutant exhibited a stronger phenotype than the bap1 single mutant. Its leaves are very curly with water-soaked appearance, resembling those of bon1. The genetic interactions between BAP1 and BAP2 indicate that these two genes have overlapping functions and that their functions are dosage dependent. We assessed cell death in different mutant combinations between bap1 and bap2 as their double homozygous mutant is seedling lethal. Trypan blue, a membrane impermeable reagent, was used to stain dead cells or cells with damaged cell membranes. This vital stain revealed various degrees of cell death in leaves of different mutants (Fig. 2A ). None of the wild-type Col leaves (0/8) analyzed had any staining, neither did the bap1 (0/8) or the bap2 (0/8) single mutants. Strong staining was found in most of the leaves of bon1-1 (9/14), consistent with previous findings (CITATION; CITATION). Very few leaves of bap1/+bap2 (1/8) were stained by trypan blue, while most of the bap1bap2/+ leaves (7/12) were stained. Thus, extensive cell death occurs in leaves of bap1bap2/+ as in bon1, correlating with a severe morphological defect in leaves. [[FIGURE]] We further analyzed leaves of these mutants for autofluorescence indicative of accumulation of phenolic compounds from dead cells. No significant autofluorescence was observed in Col, bon1, bap1, bap2, or bap1/+bap2 (Fig. 2B). In contrast, strong autofluorescence was found in bap1bap2/+ (Fig. 2B), indicating extensive cell death in bap1bap2/+. We then asked whether the cell death phenotype in bap1 and bap2 mutant combinations was associated with an accumulation of ROS. To this end, we determined the relative amount of H2O2 in mutant plants by diaminobenzidine (DAB) that forms reddish brown precipitates when reacted with H2O2. Under growth conditions of both constant light and 12-h light/12-h darkness, bap1, but not bap2, had a darker staining compared to the wild-type Col. bap1/+bap2 and bap1bap2/+ both had a stronger staining than bap1 (Fig. 2C). Thus, H2O2 accumulates at a moderate level in bap1 and at a higher level in the bap1 and bap2 mutant combinations. The lethal phenotype of bap1bap2 could result from a heightened defense response leading to extensive cell death at very early stage of development. We assessed whether the lethal phenotype of bap1bap2 is due to a stronger activation of SNC1 and higher accumulation of SA in the double mutant than in the bap1 single mutant, given that the loss-of-function mutant snc1-11 (referred as snc1 from now on) and the SA-degrading nahG suppressed the phenotype of bap1. Analysis of progenies of a bap1bap2/+snc1/+ plant and those of a bap1bap2/+nahG/+ plant indicate that neither snc1 nor nahG could rescue the lethal phenotype of bap1bap2 (data not shown). Strikingly, the lethality of bap1bap2 can be suppressed by mutations in PAD4 or EDS1. From the F2 progenies of a cross between bap2 and bap1pad4 (CITATION), we were able to obtain bap1bap2 plants and these plants were always pad4 homozygous, indicating that pad4 suppressed the lethal phenotype of bap1bap2. Not only was the triple mutant bap1bap2pad4 viable, it was also wild type in appearance throughout its development (Fig. 2D). Similar rescue of lethality of bap1bap2 was observed with the eds1 mutation as well (Fig. 2D). pad4 and eds1 suppressed all other mutant phenotypes observed in the bap1 and bap2 mutant combinations. No autofluorescence could be seen on leaves of bap1bap2pad4 or bap1bap2eds1, in contrast to the strong fluorescence on the bap1bap2/+ leaves (Fig. 2B). Nor was a higher level of DAB staining observed in bap1bap2pad4, indicating a suppression of H2O2 accumulation in bap1bap2 by pad4 (Fig. 2C). We determined whether environmental factors can modulate the phenotypes of the bap1 and bap2 mutant combinations. A higher temperature of 28°C alleviates the growth defects observed in all double mutants to different degrees. Both bap1bap2/+ and bap1/+bap2 were wild-type looking throughout the life cycle at 28°C in contrast to the dwarf phenotype at 22°C (Fig. 2E). The bap1bap2 homozygous mutant was partially rescued by a higher growth temperature. Instead of dying immediately after germination at 22°C, the double mutant grew like the wild type at 28°C for 2 weeks after germination. However, when the wild type started bolting at approximately 3 weeks old, the double mutant turned yellow and died (Fig. 2E). A shorter photoperiod suppressed phenotypes of some of the mutant combinations as well. bap1/+bap2 and bap1bap2/+ grown under a cycle of 12-h light and 12-h darkness rather than constant light were wild-type looking (data not shown). However, no bap1bap2 could be found from progenies of bap1/+bap2 or bap1bap2/+ under this growth condition, indicating that the shorter photoperiod does not suppress the seedling lethality of bap1bap2. Because bap1 has heightened disease resistance to virulent P. syringae and Hyaloperonospora parasitica (CITATION), we assessed whether bap2 has an abnormal defense response. We challenged the bap2 mutant with a virulent bacterial pathogen Pst DC3000 and found that it was as susceptible to this pathogen as the wild-type Col (Fig. 3A ). Four days after infection, Pst grew to 4.2 × 105 colony forming units (cfu) mg−1 fresh weight in bap2, similarly to the level of 3 × 105 in the wild type, while its growth was reduced to 1.1 × 104 in bap1. bap2 was also as susceptible to virulent H. parasitica as the wild type. While no sporangiphores were found on bap1 a week after spray inoculation, bap2 supported the same amount of growth of this pathogen as the wild-type Col (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Given that bap1 and bap2 enhanced each other's morphological and cell death phenotype in a dominant manner, we asked whether the same is true for the disease resistance phenotype. Growth of Pst DC3000 was analyzed in the bap1/+bap2 and bap1bap2/+ mutants. Pst propagated to 1.8 × 104 cfu mg−1 fresh weight in bap1bap2/+, comparable to the level of 1.1 × 104 in bap1 (Fig. 3A), indicating that bap2 does not dominantly enhance disease resistance in bap1. Pst grew to 1.3 × 105 in bap1/+bap2, similar though slightly lower than the level of 4.2 × 105 in bap2 (Fig. 3A). No significant difference was observed in biological replica between bap1/+bap2 and bap2. Thus, bap1 and bap2 do not dominantly enhance each other's disease resistance phenotype in contrast to the growth and cell death phenotype. In addition, bap1bap2pad4 was as susceptible to Pst as pad4 and bap1pad4 (Fig. 3A), indicating that the resistance phenotype is mediated by PAD4. The loss-of-function phenotypes indicate that the BAP genes are negative regulators of cell death. To determine whether they have a direct role in suppressing cell death, we analyzed their overexpression effect on PCD. First we assayed HR induced by Pst DC3000 carrying avirulent effectors in Arabidopsis. Wild-type Col plants were infiltrated with Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2) together with Agrobacterium containing p35S∷BON1, p35S∷BAP1, or an empty vector. At 14 hpi, a strong HR indicated by the collapse of tissues appeared on all leaves inoculated with Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2) together with the vector control (Fig. 4A ). Agroinfiltrations with p35S∷BAP1 or p35S∷BON1 did not affect HR when compared to the vector control, although they occasionally slightly delayed its onset. In contrast, HR was not observed at 14 hpi when p35S∷BAP1 and p35S∷BON1 were simultaneously agroinfiltrated (Fig. 4A), and it only started to develop at approximately 18 hpi, indicating that BAP1 and BON1 together inhibited HR induced by avrRpt2. [[FIGURE]] We additionally tested the effect of BAP1 and BON1 overexpression on HR induced by another avirulent strain Pst DC3000 (avrRpm1). At 5 to 6 hpi, a strong HR was induced by avrRpm1 when agroinfiltrated with the vector control. Agroinfiltration with p35S∷BAP1 or p35S∷BON1 alone did not significantly affect the development of HR. However, HR was not observed until 8 to 9 hpi with simultaneous agroinfiltration of BAP1 and BON1 (Fig. 4A). The suppression for both avirulent strains was consistently seen in replicated experiments. Therefore, overexpression of BON1 and BAP1 together in Arabidopsis greatly delayed HR induced by avirulent bacterial pathogen Pst DC3000 with two different effector proteins. We subsequently analyzed the effect of overexpression of BAP1 and BON1 on PCD induced by other R proteins. Transient coexpression of a potato (Solanum tuberosum) NB-LRR type of R protein Rx and its elicitor PVX coat protein (CP) was shown to induce HR in Nicotiana benthamiana (CITATION). A collapse of cells indicative of HR was observed in leaf area agroinfiltrated with Rx and CP at 36 hpi. Coagroinfiltration with the vector alone did not alter the onset or the progression of HR. However, when p35S∷BAP1 or p35S∷BON1 were coagroinfiltrated, HR was either suppressed or greatly reduced at 36 hpi (Fig. 4B). In some repeats, no HR was ever developed over the following 5 d observation. Coagroinfiltration of p35S∷BAP1 and p35S∷BON1 together did not appear to have a stronger effect in HR suppression. Given that BAP1 and BON1 inhibit HR induced by R proteins, we further tested whether the BAP1 and BON1 genes can suppress PCD induced by reagents other than R proteins in plants. The mouse Bax gene belongs to the apoptotic Bcl-2 family and is shown to induce cell death response in plants resembling HR (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We infiltrated leaves of N. benthamiana with Agrobacterium containing the Bax gene under the control of a dexamethasone (DEX) inducible promoter (pDEX∷Bax; CITATION) and induced Bax expression by spraying the inoculated leaves with DEX. Cell death occurred at 72 hpi, manifested by a transparent and collapsed infiltrated area (Fig. 4C). Coagroinfiltration with either p35S∷BAP1 or p35S∷BON1 did not consistently affect the rate or extent of cell death compared to the vector control. p35S∷BAP2, however, sometimes inhibited Bax-induced cell death at 72 hpi (Fig. 4C). Strikingly, when p35S∷BAP1 and p35S∷BON1 were simultaneously agroinfiltrated with pDEX∷Bax, no obvious cell death was observed at 72 hpi when the control areas exhibited strong cell death (Fig. 4C). Similar suppression of cell death was observed when p35S∷BAP2 and p35S∷BON1 were coagroinfiltrated. In both cases, cell collapse started at 90 hpi and occurred to a full extend at 114 hpi in BON1 and BAP1/BAP2 coinfiltrated areas. Therefore, Bax-induced cell death was delayed by 1 to 2 d with overexpression of BON1 together with BAP1 or BAP2. The BAP transcripts are induced by a number of biotic and abiotic stimuli and the common feature of these treatments is probably ROS. Considering that they are capable of inhibiting PCD, we asked whether overexpression of the BAP genes can inhibit cell death induced by ROS. To this end, we compared Col Arabidopsis lines containing the 35S∷BAP1 transgene (CITATION) to the wild-type Col in paraquat sensitivity. Paraquat is a redox-active compound that generates superoxide anion in the cell, causing cell damage and cell death (CITATION). We found that overexpression of the BAP1 gene protects cells from these damages. Wild-type leaf discs treated with paraquat had chlorophyll loss and cholorosis over 2 d, while leaf discs of 35S∷BAP1 transgenic lines stayed green under the same treatment (Fig. 4D), indicating a protective role of BAP1 against ROS. We further asked whether the BAP genes can protect nonplant species from ROS-induced cell death. We expressed the BAP1 and BAP2 genes under the control of the constitutive ADH promoter in yeast, and assayed their effects on cell death induced by ROS. Yeast cells were treated with 10 mm of H2O2 to induce PCD and cell survival rates were counted 12 h after the treatment. Only 1% of cells containing an empty vector survived the H2O2 treatment compared to the mock treatment (Fig. 4E). In contrast, cells expressing either BAP1 or BAP2 had significantly higher survival rates (Fig. 4E). A total of 2.6% and 4.9% of cells survived for two independent BAP1-expressing strains, respectively, while 18.2% and 20.4% of cells survived for two independent BAP2-expressing strains, respectively. The increase in survival rates by expressing BAP1 and more so by BAP2 was observed in repeated experiments treated with 10 mm of H2O2 as well as in similar experiments treated with 5 mm of H2O2 (data not shown).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown at 22°C or 28°C under continuous fluorescent light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) with 50% to 70% relative humidity unless specified otherwise. Arabidopsis seeds were either directly sowed on soil or selected on plates before being transferred to soil. For bacterial pathogen tests, plants were grown at 22°C under a photoperiod of 12 h of light for 2 weeks (for dipping inoculation) or 1 month (for infiltration inoculation). The bap2-4 mutant was isolated from the Salk T-DNA collection (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). The T-DNA insertion site was confirmed by sequencing PCR products amplified from the mutant with T-DNA primers and gene-specific primers. BAP1 and BAP2 were each fused with the DNA-binding domain of the GAL4 transcription factor in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) vector pGBD-C2 with a Trp auxotroph marker (CITATION). The A domains of BON1, BON2, and BON3 were each fused with the activation domain of GAL4 in the yeast vector pGAD-C2 with a Leu auxotroph maker (CITATION). pGBD:BAP1 and pGBD:BAP2 were each cotransformed with pGAD:BON1A, pGAD:BON2A, and pGAD:BON3A, respectively, into the yeast strain PJ69-4 (CITATION). Transformants with both the GBD and GAD constructs were selected on synthetic complete (SC) medium without Trp and Leu. Protein interactions were assayed by growing the transformants on SC medium without adenine, His, Trp, and Leu. Total RNAs were extracted from 3-week-old plants using TriReagents (Molecular Research) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Twenty micrograms of RNA for each sample were resolved on 1.2% agarose gels containing 1.8% formaldehyde. Ethidium bromide was used to visualize the rRNA bands to ensure equal loading. RNA gel blots were hybridized with gene-specific, 32P-labeled, single-stranded DNA probes. Bacterial growth in Arabidopsis was monitored as described with some modifications (CITATION). Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 was grown overnight on the Kapadnis-Baseri medium and resuspended at 108 cfu mL−1 in a solution of 10 mm MgCl2 and 0.02% Silwet L-77. Two-week-old seedlings were dip inoculated with bacteria and kept covered for 1 h. The amount of bacteria in plants was analyzed at 1 h after dipping (day 0) and 4 d after dipping (day 4). The aerial parts of three inoculated seedlings were pooled for each sample and three samples were collected for each genotype at one time point. Seedlings were ground in 1 mL of 10 mm of MgCl2 and serial dilutions of the ground tissue were used to determine the number of cfu per gram of leaf tissues. For HR test, Pst DC3000 with avirulent genes were resuspended at 108 cfu mL−1 and infiltrated into leaves of 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants. Infiltrated leaves were monitored hourly for symptoms of cell collapse. Hyaloparanospora parasitica Noco2 strain was propagated on the Col accession of Arabidopsis. Conidiospores were suspended in water at a concentration of 40,000 spores per mL and spray inoculated onto 2-week-old plants that were subsequently kept covered at 16°C. The number of sporangiophores formed on the first two true leaves was counted a week later. Approximately 100 leaves were counted for each genotype. Genes to be expressed are cloned into binary vectors and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 containing the virulence plasmid pCH32 (CITATION). Agrobacterium infiltrations were performed as described (CITATION) with modified inoculation concentrations as specified. The genomic fragments of the BAP1, BAP2, and BON1 genes were expressed with the CaMV 35S promoter in the binary pGreen0229 vector (http://www.pgreen.ac.uk/). Agrobacterial cells containing BON1, BAP1, BAP2, or the empty vector were each resuspended in the infiltration buffer (10 mm MgCl2, 10 mm MES, and 150 μm Acetosyringone) at 0.5 OD600. Cells with Rx or CP were resuspended at 0.2 OD600 and combined at 1:1 to make the Rx and CP mixture. Cells containing the pDEX:Bax were resuspended at 0.5 OD600 2 h prior to infiltration. A total of 50 μm of DEX was sprayed onto Nicotiana benthamiana leaves 15 h after infiltration. Autofluorescence of leaf tissues was examined as described (CITATION). Trypan blue staining was performed as described (CITATION). DAB was dissolved in 50 mm of Tris-acetate (pH 5.0) at a concentration of 1 mg/mL. Leaf discs or whole seedlings were punched out, placed in the DAB solution, and vacuum infiltrated till the tissues were soaked. They were then incubated at room temperature in the dark for 24 h before the tissues were cleared in boiling ethanol (95%) for 10 min. For paraquat treatment, leaf discs from 3-week-old plants were floated on 4 μm of paraquat. They were first kept in dark for 1 h and then incubated under light for 2 to 3 d. The coding regions of the BAP1 and BAP2 genes were cloned into the pAD4M vector under the control of the ADH promoter (from Dr. G. Fink). Constructs were transformed into yeast strain PJ69-4 by LiAc-mediated transformation (http://mgwww.mbi.ucla.edu/node/124). Two independent transformants of BAP1 and BAP2 were used for cell death test. Yeast cells were grown in selective liquid medium (SC-Leu) for 36 h, collected by centrifugation, washed three times with water, and resuspended in fresh medium at a concentration of 0.5 OD600. Each sample was split into two halves with one treated with H2O2 at a final concentration of 10 mm or 5 mm and the other with water as mock control. The amount of live cells at 12 h after treatment was analyzed by growing serial dilutions onto rich media. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number NM_130139.
