!~ABS~! In plant cells, the vacuole functions as a major calcium store. Although a calmodulin-regulated Ca2+-ATPase (ACA4) is known to be present in prevacuolar compartments, the presence of an ACA-type Ca2+-ATPase in the mature vacuole of a plant cell has not been verified. Here we provide evidence that ACA11 localizes to the vacuole membrane. ACA11 tagged with GFP was expressed in stable transgenic plants, and visualized in root cells and protoplasts by confocal microscopy. A Ca2+-ATPase function for ACA11 was confirmed by complementation of yeast mutants. A calmodulin binding domain was identified within the first 37 residues of the N-terminal autoinhibitory region.
!~RES~! To investigate the subcellular localization of ACA11, we tagged ACA11 with GFP and visualized its location in living cells of transgenic plants using confocal microscopy. GFP was added to the C-terminal end of ACA11 along with a three glycine residue linker that was used to provide a flexible linker between ACA11 and GFP. Free-GFP and ACA8-GFP were used as cytosol and plasma membrane marker proteins, respectively CITATION. We detected GFP fluorescence in the living root cells of 1-week-old-seedling transgenic plants grown on an agar-solidified medium (CITATION A). Three independent transgenic plant lines were analyzed with equivalent results. The fluorescent signal of free-GFP was dispersed throughout the whole cell, and that of ACA8-GFP was clearly detected in the plasma membrane. In contrast, the signal detected from ACA11-GFP was observed associated with the large central vacuole. This localization was clearly distinct from the ER localization previously documented for ACA2-GFP CITATION. To verify the expression of the intact full-length protein in transgenic plants, we performed Western blotting using an anti-GFP antibody. All GFP fusion proteins were detected at their expected sizes (CITATIONB). To verify the subcellular localization of ACA11-GFP in protoplasts, we analyzed fluorescent images from protoplasts expressing free-GFP, ACA8-GFP and ACA11-GFP. Protoplasts were prepared from 3- to 4-week-old transgenic plants grown on plates CITATION. CITATION shows representative fluorescent images from protoplasts of transgenic plants expressing free GFP, ACA8-GFP and ACA11-GFP fusion proteins. The fluorescent images of ACA11-GFP were compared with those of ACA8-GFP and free-GFP (CITATION). As in root cells, ACA11-GFP in protoplasts was detected in the vacuole membrane. The results we obtained in both root cells and protoplasts corroborate that ACA11 is localized in the vacuole membrane of Arabidopsis. To genetically test whether ACA11 exhibits Ca2+ pump activity in vivo, full-length ACA11-GFP (ACA11FL-GFP) and an N-terminally truncated mutant of ACA11-GFP (ACA11ΔN-GFP, a deregulated form of Ca2+-ATPase) were expressed in two yeast mutant strains, K616 and K473. Three genes that are involved in Ca2+ homeostasis are disrupted in the K616 strain, PMR1, PMC1 and CNB1 CITATION; this mutant exhibits poor growth on Ca2+-depleted media (i.e. with 10mM EGTA). The K473 strain has a mutation in PMC1, a gene involved in calcium detoxification in the vacuole; this mutant grows poorly in high calcium media CITATION. ACA11 and ACA11ΔN cDNAs were constructed in the yeast expression vector YX-GFP (Novagen), to express proteins constitutively under the control of the triose phosphate isomerase promoter. As controls, wild type yeast (W303-1A) transformed with vector alone grew on Ca2+-depleted (CITATION A) or high Ca2+ media (CITATIONB), whereas the mutants (K616 or K473) transformed with vector alone did not. When we transformed the K616 or K473 mutants with ACA11FL-GFP and ACA11ΔN-GFP, only the truncated ACA11ΔN-GFP was able to restore the growth of K616 on low calcium medium (10mM EGTA, CITATIONA) and the growth of K473 on high calcium medium (200mM CaCl2, CITATIONB). When we investigated the expression and the subcellular localization of ACA11 proteins tagged with GFP in yeast K473 and K616 mutants using confocal microscopy, GFP was detected in the internal membranes. The majority of ACA11-GFP fusion proteins were detected in the ER, however, parts of proteins were also present in the vacuole of the yeast. These results suggest that ACA11 functions as an active Ca2+-ATPase. To investigate whether ACA11 can bind calmodulin (CaM), we performed Western blotting and CaM overlay assays using yeast that expressed ACA11-GFP and ACA11ΔN-GFP. Total membrane proteins were isolated from transformed yeast mutants (CITATION ). ACA11-GFP and ACA11ΔN-GFP were recognized as 137kDa and 128kDa polypeptides respectively, by an anti-GFP antibody. To determine whether a calmodulin-binding domain was located in the N-terminus of ACA11, calmodulin overlay assays with ACA11-GFP and ACA11ΔN-GFP were performed in the presence and absence of Ca2+. As shown in CITATION, Arabidopsis calmodulin-2 conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (AtCaM2-HRP) CITATION could only bind to ACA11-GFP. This indicates that ACA11 contains a calmodulin-binding site in the N-terminus. To more precisely delineate the position of a calmodulin-binding domain (CaMBD) in the N-terminal domain of ACA11, we made a series of GST fusion constructs (CITATION A). Expression of the GST-fusion protein was verified by probing the blot with an anti-GST antibody (CITATIONB). Two recombinant proteins (designated D1 and D2) that contained the putative CaMBD interacted with AtCaM2-HRP, whereas GST alone and the GST-fusion proteins lacking the putative CaMBD (D3, D4, and D5) did not interact with CaM (CITATIONB). In D1 and D2 lanes lower molecular weight bands also interacted with AtCaM2-HRP. The lower proteins in D1 and D2 were believed to be produced by random degradation of the fusion proteins from the N-terminus or the C-terminus. Thereby, some of degraded proteins had a CaMBD and some had not. A helical wheel projection of the CaMBD revealed a characteristic segregation of basic and polar residues on one side with hydrophobic amino acids on the other side (CITATIONC). These results suggest that ACA11 contains a Ca2+ dependent CaM-binding sequence between the Arg20 and Phe37 residues in the N-terminus. To investigate the relative expression level of ACA11 in various tissues, RT-PCR analysis was performed using RNA extracted from roots, stems, rosette leaves, cauline leaves and flowers. The primer sets were designed with the specific cDNA region of ACA11 and Tubulin2. As shown in CITATION , ACA11 transcripts were detected at similar levels in all the Arabidopsis tissues analyzed.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia was used as the plant material. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains W303-1A (MATa leu2, his3, ade2, ura3), K616 (MATαpmr1::HIS3 pmc1::TRP1 cnb1::LEU2, ura3), and K473 (MATa pmc1::LEU2) were used for complementation studies and protein expression CITATION. The fusion protein was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLys S. Yeast vector YX-GFP was derived from YX112 by modification to express the green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein downstream of a triose phosphate isomerase promoter CITATION. YX-ACA11-GFP encoding GFP-tagged ACA11 full-length protein was subcloned from the XhoI/SpeI fragment of ACA11 into the XhoI/SpeI site of YX-GFP. YX-ACA11ΔN-GFP encodes the N-terminal 80 amino acid truncated ACA11 tagged with GFP. For mapping of the CaM-binding domain, several N-terminal deletion constructs were created using PCR. These constructs were made as Glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins in the pGEX-5 vector (GE health care). The expression of GST-fusion proteins was induced by the application of 1mM IPTG for 5h at 30°C. 35S-ACA11-GFP encodes a full-length ACA11-GFP fusion protein under the control of the 35S promoter. The XhoI/SpeI fragment of ACA11 was subcloned into the XhoI/SpeI site of the plant binary vector, 35S-GFP-JFH1 CITATION. Yeast cells were grown to late log phase in 500ml of synthetic complete medium minus uracil (SC-URA) containing 10mM CaCl2 with shaking at 30°C, harvested, and washed with cold water. Yeast cells were homogenized by vortexing with glass beads in buffer [10% (w/w) sucrose, 25mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES)-KOH (pH 7.5), 2mM EGTA, and 2mM dithiothreitol, and a mixture protease inhibitors] and then centrifuged for 10min at 2000× g to remove debris. Supernatants were spun at 48000× g for 1h to pellet microsomal membranes. Membrane pellets were resuspended in homogenization buffer using a glass homogenizer CITATION. Calmodulin gel overlay was performed as previously described CITATION. Plants were transformed with Agrobacterium tumerfaciens (GV3101) using a floral dip method CITATION. Dry seeds were harvested, and kanamycin-resistant plants (T0) were identified and grown for seeds. We conducted experiments with T1 or T2 plants and selected five independent transgenic plant lines for detailed analysis. Total proteins were isolated from ACA11-GFP and ACA8-GFP transgenic plants as previously described CITATION and separated by 8% SDS–PAGE. The GFP antibody used for Western blot was commercially obtained (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, USA). Western blot analysis was performed as previously described CITATION. Roots were prepared from 1-week-old seedlings grown vertically on Murashige and Skoog basal medium with 1% agar. Protoplasts were prepared from 3- to 4-week-old leaves from transgenic plants grown on plates CITATION. Confocal images were generated using a laser confocal microscope (Olympus, Fluoview 1000) attached to a vertical microscope (Olympus, BX61) equipped with a fluorescein filter. An X100, 1.35 Plan Apo objective lens was used to image root tips and protoplasts. Images of protoplasts were taken at a threefold zoom setting. The GFP signal was excited with the 488nm wavelength and the chlorophyll autofluorescence signal was excited with the 543nm wavelength under confocal laser-scanning microscope with argon ion laser system. These fluorescence images were collected in the green or the red channels, respectively. RT-PCR analysis was carried out as previously described CITATION. Total RNA was prepared from roots, rosette leaves, stems, cauline leaves, and flowers. First strand cDNA was synthesized for amplification. Primers for the PCR were: F, 5′-GAA GGA AAA ACT CAG ATC CTG-3′ and R, 5′-ATT CAC TAT GTT GCA AAG TTG-3′ for ACA11, F, 5′-CCA ACA ACG TGA AAT CGA CAG-3′ and R, 5′-TCTTGGTATTGCTGGTACTCT-3′ for the internal standard Tublin2 (GenBank Accession Number, M84700). PCR was carried out using gene-specific primers for 23, 26, 29 and 32 amplification cycles, in order to determine conditions in which the amplification rate of the target cDNA fragment was still linear.
