!~ABS~! Brassinosteroids (BRs) are essential hormones for plant growth and development. BRs regulate gene expression by inducing dephosphorylation of two key transcription factors, BZR1 and BZR2/BES1, through a signal transduction pathway that involves cell-surface receptors (BRI1 and BAK1) and a GSK3 kinase (BIN2). How BR-regulated phosphorylation controls the activities of BZR1/BZR2 is not fully understood. Here, we show that BIN2-catalyzed phosphorylation of BZR1/BZR2 not only inhibits DNA binding, but also promotes binding to the 14-3-3 proteins. Mutations of a BIN2-phosphorylation site in BZR1 abolish 14-3-3 binding and lead to increased nuclear localization of BZR1 protein and enhanced BR responses in transgenic plants. Further, BR deficiency increases cytoplasmic localization, and BR treatment induces rapid nuclear localization of BZR1/BZR2. Thus, 14-3-3 binding is required for efficient inhibition of phosphorylated BR transcription factors, largely through cytoplasmic retention. This study demonstrates that multiple mechanisms are required for BR regulation of gene expression and plant growth.
!~RES~! To clarify whether BR regulates nuclear localization of BZR1, we analyzed the relative levels of nuclear and cytoplasmic signals of a BZR1-yellow fluorescent protein (BZR1-YFP) by using spinning-disk confocal microscopy. The results show that the ratio of nuclear to cytoplasmic BZR1-YFP signals is reduced by brassinazole (BRZ), an inhibitor of BR biosynthesis, but increased by brassinolide (BL), the most active BR ( CITATIONA). BL-induced nuclear localization of BZR1-YFP was observed both when transiently expressed in tobacco leaves (CITATION, see the CITATION available with this article online) and when stably expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis (CITATIONA). In time course experiments, nuclear accumulation of BZR1-YFP increased rapidly, within 4 min of BL treatment, and the nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio continued to increase for 14 min (CITATIONB; CITATION). Such kinetics of BR-induced BZR1 nuclear accumulation is consistent with the kinetics of dephosphorylation (CITATION). In contrast, mock treatment did not significantly increase the nuclear/cytoplasmic signal ratio of BZR1-YFP. We further tested the effect of BR on nuclear localization of BZR1-YFP by using subcellular fractionation experiments. These experiments demonstrated that unphosphorylated, but not the phosphorylated, BZR1-CFP was enriched in the nucleus. Furthermore, BL treatment resulted in a significant increase of the unphosphorylated BZR1 in the nuclear fraction (CITATIONC). Phosphorylated BZR1-CFP protein was also more associated with cell membranes than the unphosphorylated protein (CITATIOND). In subcellular fractionation experiments, both microsomal and plasma membrane fractions contained similar levels of phosphorylated, but much lower amounts of unphosphorylated, BZR1-CFP compared to the soluble protein fraction (CITATIOND). After BR treatment, the amount of BZR1-CFP associated with membranes was greatly reduced as BZR1 was dephosphorylated. These results collectively indicate that some phosphorylated BZR1 protein is retained in the cytoplasm, most likely through interaction with membranes, and BR-induced dephosphorylation of BZR1 leads to its movement from cytoplasm into the nucleus. A recent study showed that phosphorylation inhibits DNA binding of BZR2/BES1 (CITATION). We tested whether phosphorylation by BIN2 inhibits the DNA-binding activity of BZR1. A maltose-binding protein (MBP)-BZR1 fusion protein was phosphorylated by BIN2 and separated on an SDS-PAGE gel. When the gel blot was probed with radiolabeled DNA containing a BZR1-binding site (BRRE) (CITATION), only the unphosphorylated, but not the phosphorylated, MBP-BZR1 showed DNA binding, indicating that phosphorylation by BIN2 inhibits BZR1's DNA-binding activity (CITATIONE). To further understand the molecular mechanisms of BZR1 regulation, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen for BZR1-interacting proteins. Out of 98 positive clones identified, 80 clones encode members of the 14-3-3 protein family. They represent 5 of the 12 isoforms in Arabidopsis (CITATION), namely, 14-3-3λ, 14-3-3κ, 14-3-3ɛ, 14-3-3ϕ, and 14-3-3ω. Additional yeast two-hybrid assays indicated that 14-3-3λ interacts with BZR1, bzr1-1D, and the C termini (amino acids 90–336) of BZR1 and bzr1-1D, but not with BRI1, BIN2, or bin2-1 ( CITATIONA). 14-3-3s are known to bind specific sequences of target proteins in a phosphorylation-dependent manner (CITATION). To determine if 14-3-3 binding requires phosphorylation of BZR1 by BIN2, purified MBP-BZR1 fusion protein was phosphorylated by a GST-BIN2 protein in vitro, separated on an SDS-PAGE gel, and blotted to a nitrocellulose membrane. Incubation of the blot with GST-14-3-3λ and anti-GST antibodies detected strong binding to the phosphorylated MBP-BZR1 and very weak binding to the unphosphorylated form (CITATIONB), indicating that phosphorylation by BIN2 facilitates BZR1 binding to 14-3-3s. The interaction in yeast is likely due to phosphorylation of BZR1 by the yeast GSK3 kinases. In an attempt to understand the function of 14-3-3 proteins, we obtained single and double knockout mutants of 14-3-3λ and 14-3-3κ, two closely homologous genes that were identified most frequently in our yeast two-hybrid screen. Neither single nor double knockout mutants displayed phenotypes or altered BR responses (data not shown), most likely due to redundancy of the gene family. 14-3-3 RNAi plants also did not show any noticeable differences in phenotypes (data not shown). Apparently, an experimental approach that specifically disrupts the BZR1:14-3-3 interaction is required to understand how 14-3-3 binding affects BZR1 function. 14-3-3 proteins are known to mostly bind two types of specific sequences: mode I, RXXpSXP, or mode II, RXXXpSXP (X = any amino acid, R = arginine, pS = phosphoserine, and P = proline), in which the S residue needs to be phosphorylated (CITATION). A potential mode II-type 14-3-3-binding site sequence was identified in BZR1 at amino acids 169–175 (RISNSCP) (CITATIONC). Mass spectrometric analysis of BIN2-phosphorylated BZR1 protein showed that serine 173 in the putative 14-3-3-binding site of BZR1 is phosphorylated by BIN2 (CITATION). When the binding site (RISNS, at position 169–173) was deleted (BZR1Δ) or serine 173 was mutated to alanine (S173A) (CITATIONC), 14-3-3 binding was greatly reduced (CITATIOND). In contrast, deletion of isoleucine 170 (ΔI170) of BZR1, which changes the sequence from a mode II to a mode I 14-3-3-binding site (CITATIONC), did not abolish 14-3-3 binding (CITATIOND). These results indicate that 14-3-3 proteins bind to BZR1 through the conserved binding site that contains phosphorylated serine 173. The in vivo interactions of wild-type and mutant BZR1s with 14-3-3λ were studied by using a Bi-Molecular Fluorescence Complementation system (BiFC). BiFC is based on the principle that a functional fluorescence complex is observed when two proteins of interest fused to the N- and C-terminal halves of YFP interact in vivo. Cotransformed BZR1-cYFP and 14-3-3λ-nYFP produced strong YFP fluorescence (CITATIONE and 2G). The fluorescence signal was reduced by BR treatment (CITATIONF and 2G), which induces BZR1 dephosphorylation. By contrast, cotransformation of BZR1Δ-cYFP with 14-3-3λ-nYFP or BZR1-cYFP with a non-fusion nYFP yielded a very low fluorescence signal (CITATIONG). Consistent with the BiFC data, coimmunoprecipitation experiments (Co-IP) with transgenic Arabidopsis plants demonstrated that wild-type BZR1 and BZR1ΔI170, but not ΔBZR1 or BZR1S173A, interacted with 14-3-3 proteins in vivo (CITATIONH and data not shown). These results indicate that phosphorylated BZR1 interacts with 14-3-3 in vivo, and that this interaction is inhibited by BR-induced BZR1 dephosphorylation. To understand the function of the BZR1:14-3-3 interaction in BR signaling, we generated transgenic plants expressing BZR1 containing 14-3-3-binding site mutations. Interestingly, transgenic plants expressing BZR1Δ (16/92; 17%) or BZR1S173A (14/104; 13%) showed phenotypes similar to bzr1-1D ( CITATION), including shorter petioles, rounder and curled leaves (CITATIONA and 3B), delayed flowering (CITATIONC), bending of the stem at the branch junction (CITATIOND), long hypocotyls when grown on BR biosynthesis inhibitor BRZ in the dark (CITATIONE), and suppression of bri1-5 (CITATIONF). In contrast, none of the transgenic plants transformed with wild-type BZR1 (0/157) or mutant BZR1ΔI170 (0/118) showed any bzr1-1D-like phenotype (CITATION). Consistent with the morphological phenotypes, the expression of BZR1-target genes CPD and DWF4 (CITATION) is greatly reduced in BZR1Δ as well as bzr1-1D plants (CITATIONG). Expression of BZR1S173A with the native BZR1 promoter also caused a bzr1-1D-like phenotype (CITATION). These results indicate that 14-3-3 proteins interact with BZR1 to inhibit its function, and abolition of such an interaction leads to increased BZR1 activity. The dominant gain-of-function mutation in the bzr1-1D mutant causes accumulation of BZR1 protein, leading to constitutive BR-response phenotypes (CITATION). To determine whether the phenotypes of BZR1Δ and BZR1S173A plants were due to altered BZR1 protein accumulation or phosphorylation, we performed immunoblot analysis. Despite causing strong phenotypes, mutations of the 14-3-3-binding site did not increase the accumulation or dephosphorylation of BZR1 protein ( CITATIONA). Southwestern blot analysis showed that these mutations did not affect BZR1's ability to bind DNA, because phosphorylation by BIN2 abolished the DNA-binding activity of the wild-type as well as the mutant BZR1 proteins (CITATIONB). Therefore, the bzr1-1D-like phenotypes displayed by BZR1Δ and BZR1S173A plants are unlikely due to a difference in the accumulation or DNA-binding activity of the BZR1 protein. 14-3-3 proteins have been shown to negatively regulate nuclear localization of target proteins in both metazoans and plants (CITATION). Considering that BR induces nuclear localization of BZR1, we examined whether BZR1Δ- and BZR1S173A-YFP have altered subcellular localization ( CITATION). Indeed, BZR1Δ- and BZR1S173A-YFP proteins showed significantly increased nuclear localization in Arabidopsis and tobacco cells (CITATIONA,and 5B; CITATION), whereas BZR1ΔI170-YFP was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, similar to wild-type BZR1-YFP (CITATIONA; CITATION). Quantification of the nuclear/cytoplasmic signals confirmed these microscopic observations (CITATIONB). BRZ increased the cytoplasmic signal of wild-type BZR1-YFP, but had little effect on BZR1Δ-YFP (CITATIONA; CITATION). When transiently coexpressed in tobacco leaf cells, both BZR1-CFP and bzr1-1D-CFP proteins showed identical localization patterns with that of cotransformed BZR1-YFP, indicating that the bzr1-1D mutation, which increases the protein accumulation, does not affect the subcellular localization of the protein (CITATIONC). In contrast, BZR1Δ-CFP showed much reduced levels of cytoplasmic signal compared to BZR1-YFP (CITATIONC). This difference in localization disappeared when cells were treated with BR, presumably due to BR-induced nuclear localization of BZR1-YFP (CITATIONC; CITATION). Consistent with microscopic observations, subcellular fractionation showed that BZR1S173A-YFP protein levels, compared to those of BZR1ΔI170-YFP, are reduced in the cytosolic fraction (CITATION). These results demonstrate that mutation of the 14-3-3-binding site increases the nuclear localization of BZR1. Previous studies have shown that 14-3-3 interactions with the target proteins can be disrupted by 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR) (CITATION). We observed that AICAR treatment increased the nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio of BZR1 and reduced the expression of BZR1-target genes CPD and DWF4 (CITATIOND and 5E), further supporting the thought that disrupting 14-3-3 binding increases BZR1's nuclear localization and activates its function. Together, these results strongly support a model in which phosphorylated BZR1 is retained in the cytoplasm by binding to 14-3-3 proteins, and in which BR-induced dephosphorylation abolishes 14-3-3 binding to allow nuclear localization and transcriptional regulation of BZR1. A yeast two-hybrid screen also showed interaction between BZR2/BES1 and 14-3-3 proteins ( CITATIONA). To determine if subcellular localization of BZR2/BES1 is also regulated by BR and 14-3-3 proteins, we measured the nuclear/cytoplasmic signal ratio of BZR2/BES1-GFP in transgenic Arabidopsis plants by using confocal microscopy. We observed that, similar to BZR1-YFP (CITATIONA and 1B), BZR2/BES1-GFP localization in the nucleus was decreased by BRZ treatment and increased by BL treatment (CITATIONB). BZR2/BES1 contains a putative 14-3-3-binding site (CITATION), and mutation of S171A in BZR2/BES1 (equivalent to S173A in BZR1) increased the nuclear localization of the protein (CITATIONC; CITATION). These results collectively indicate that 14-3-3 proteins function in BR signal transduction by regulating the subcellular localization and activity of both BZR1 and BZR2/BES1.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0, bzr1-1D, bri1-5, transgenic Arabidopsis plants harboring either full-length YFP fusions or Bi-Molecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) constructs, and Nicotiana benthamiana (tobacco) plants were all grown in green houses under 16 hr light-long day conditions. Arabidopsis seeds were sterilized with bleach and germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with or without 2 μM BRZ. Seeds were stratified for 3 days at 4°C and were kept under white light for 6 hr before being moved into the dark. Hypocotyl lengths from 4-day-old vertically grown seedlings were measured by using ImageJ software, available at the NIH website ([CITATION]; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Transgenic seedlings expressing BZR1-CFP were grown in liquid medium containing half-strength MS and 1% sucrose for 9 days under continuous light. They were treated with 100 nM BL or mock solution for 1 hr, and samples were harvested. Nuclei protein fractions (CITATIONC) were extracted according to a published protocol (CITATION). For the data shown in CITATION, nuclei fractions were isolated by using the following protocol. Plant material was ground in NEB buffer (20 mM HEPES [pH7.5], 40 mM KCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol) and filtered through Miracloth (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA) to obtain the total extract. It was then centrifuged at 5000 × g for 2 min to separate the cytosolic fraction (supernatant) from the nuclei fraction (pellet). SDS gel loading buffer was added to each fraction, heated at 65°C for 5 min, centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 5 min, and analyzed on a 4%–12% gradient SDS- PAGE gel (Invitrogen). One-week-old liquid-grown seedlings treated with either mock or 100 nM BL solution for 2 hr were processed for plasma membrane (PM) preparation (CITATIOND). Seedlings were ground in 2 vol. Buffer H (100 mM HEPES-KOH [pH 7.5], 330 mM sucrose, 10% [v/v] glycerol, 5 mM EDTA, 5 mM ascorbic acid, 0.6% [w/v] PVP 40, 5 mM DTT, 25 mM NaF, 2 mM imidazole, 1 mM sodium molybdate, and protease inhibitors) with a Powergen 700D homogenizer at 5,000 rpm for 3 min. Homogenate was filtered through a single layer of Miracloth and was centrifuged at 10,000 × g for 10 min to remove cell debris and organelles. The microsomal fraction was collected by centrifuging at 60,000 × g for 30 min. An aliquot of supernatant containing the soluble protein was snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. The microsomal pellet was resuspended in Buffer R (5 mM potassium phosphate [pH 7.8], 330 mM sucrose, 3 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and protease inhibitors). Similarly, an aliquot of the microsomal fraction was loaded onto a two-phase partitioning system containing 6% polymers and 8 mM KCl, and partitioning was done according to CITATION. U3 upper phase was diluted with 10 vol. Buffer R and was centrifuged at 200,000 × g for 1 hr to pellet PM vesicles. After the final centrifugation, PM vesicles were resuspended in a buffer containing 5 mM potassium phosphate (pH 7.8), 250 mM sucrose, 3 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA. All protein samples were quantified by using the Bradford assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA), and equal amounts of proteins were loaded on the SDS-PAGE gels for immunoblots, which were probed with a polyclonal anti-GFP antibody (CITATION). Phosphorylation of MBP-BZR1 by GST-BIN2 was carried out in the presence of 100 μM ATP as described previously (CITATION). Unphosphorylated and phosphorylated MBP-BZR1 proteins were separated on SDS-PAGE gels and blotted on nitrocellulose membrane. The blot was incubated with a CPD probe that is chemically synthesized (5′-AAAAGGTCCTACTTTATGCAGAAACCCCCCGTGTGCCCACTCTCCCCTTC-3′) and labeled with 32P-dTTP. A gel blot containing unphosphorylated and phosphorylated MBP-BZR1 proteins was incubated with 20 μg recombinant GST-14-3-3λ protein, washed, and then probed with anti-GST antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA). MBP-BZR1 protein phosphorylated by GST-BIN2 in vitro was subjected to standard in-solution alkylation/tryptic digestion. Briefly, 1000× molar excess DTT over total proteins in 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate was added, and the reduction reaction was carried out for 1 hr at 37°C. Then, 5.5× molar excess iodoacetamide over DTT was added in 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate, and the alkylation reaction was carried out at 25°C in the dark for 1 hr. Low-molecular weight compounds in the reaction mixture were reduced by using Amicon Ultra-4 10K (Millipore, Billerica, MA), and proteins were in a buffer containing 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate and 20% acetonitrile. Tryptic digestion was carried out overnight by 1% (w/w) modified trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) and was stopped by adding formic acid to a final concentration of 1% in the solution. The digestion mixture was diluted in water to a concentration of 100 fmole/μl, and 1 μl of the aliquot was injected into an UltiMate Capillary LC system via a FAMOS Autosampler (LC Packings, Sunnyvale, CA). Peptides were separated on a 75 μm × 15 cm C18 reverse-phase capillary column at a flow rate of 300 nl/min while running a 3%–32% acetonitrile gradient with 0.1% formic acid. The HPLC eluent was connected directly to an LTQ/FT instrument (Thermo Finnigan, Bremen, Germany). The LC-MS/MS method consisted of one survey scan in FT mode with a resolution of 25,000, followed by three CID scans in LTQ. The raw LC-MS/MS data were converted to ASCII peak list by Mascot Distiller software (Matrix Science, Boston, MA), with carbamidomethylation as a fixed modification and phosphorylation and methionine oxidation as variable modifications. Unphosphorylated and phosphorylated MBP-BZR1 proteins were mixed together and were incubated with beads containing either GST-14-3-3λ or GST alone in binding buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl [pH 7.5], 5 mM MgCl2). After incubation for 1 hr, beads were washed with binding buffer, and 14-3-3-binding proteins were eluted with elution buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl [pH 7.5], 5 mM glutathione) and detected by using a polyclonal anti-MBP antibody in western blot. Agrobacterium cells containing either full-length or BiFC expression vectors were washed and resuspended in the induction medium (10 mM MES buffer [pH 5.6], 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 μM acetosyringone) and were infiltrated into young leaves of 4-week-old tobacco plants. A total of 36 hours after infiltration, expression of various fluorescent proteins was analyzed by using confocal microscopy. The data generated by using this system were also confirmed in stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Plant material was ground in NEB buffer (20 mM HEPES [pH 7.5], 40 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100), filtered, and centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 10 min. Supernatant (1 ml) was incubated with anti-GFP antibody coupled to protein A Sepharose beads for 20 min. Beads were washed four times with wash buffer (20 mM HEPES [pH 7.5], 40 mM KCl, 0.1% Triton X-100), and bound proteins were eluted with buffer containing 2% SDS. The BiFC system was engineered based on the 172 N-terminal amino acids (aa 1–172) of enhanced Yellow Fluorescent Protein (eYFP) and the 85 C-terminal amino acids (aa 154–239) of enhanced Cyan Fluorescent Protein (eCFP), which were subcloned into pPZP312 driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and a CaMV terminator derived from pRT100. These two halves were named nYFP and cYFP, respectively (the cYFP differs from cCFP by two amino acids, namely, V164A and Y204T). All vectors were converted into gateway-compatible destination vectors by PCR cloning the Gateway cassette from Gateway Vector Conversion System (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) by using the BglII and HindIII restriction sites. Entry clones containing various interacting proteins were recombined with the Gateway-destination vectors by using the LR reaction kit (Invitrogen). The full-length coding sequence of 14-3-3λ was cloned directly into binary vectors by using XbaI sites engineered into pGREEN0229 and pPZP312 vector backbones. Full-length CFP and YFP fusions of wild-type and mutant BZR1 (containing mutations in the 14-3-3-binding site) were made in pEarleyGate (pEG) vectors (CITATION) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. The BZR1:BZR1S173A-CFP construct was created by using a site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) with the wild-type construct as template (CITATION). The primers used for site-directed mutagenesis PCR are listed in CITATION. All binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 by electroporation and then transformed into Arabidopsis by using the floral dip method. Basta was used for selecting the transgenic plants. RNA samples were isolated from 2-week-old transgenic plants by using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen). cDNA was synthesized from total RNA by using M-MuLV Reverse Transcriptase (MBI Fermentas, Hanover, MD) and oligo dT. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed by using iQ SYBR Green reagent (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) to amplify BZR1-YFP, UBC, CPD, and DWF4 gene-specific regions. Primer sequences used for amplification are listed in CITATION. Transgenic lines were compared for transcript abundance and were subsequently analyzed by western blots. BZR1-YFP protein was extracted in 2× SDS-PAGE buffer and was detected by using a polyclonal antibody against GFP (CITATION). Fluorescence of CFP, YFP, and BiFC (YFP) was visualized by using a spinning-disk confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heerbrugg, Germany) (CITATION). In brief, CFP was excited by a HeCd laser at 442 nm, YFP was excited by an argon laser at either 488 or 514 nm, and emission filtering was achieved by using band pass filters 480/40, 525/50, 570/65 (Chroma Technology Corp., Rockingham, VT). Both glycerin (n.a. = 1.3) and oil-immersion (n.a. = 1.4) 63× objectives were used for confocal microscopy, and all images were acquired with a 512b Roper Cascade EMCCD camera with a gain of 3800. Two-frame averaging of image acquisition improved the signal-to-noise ratio. All images were acquired by using MetaMorph software (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA). Images of BZR1-YFP and mutant BZR1-YFPs were obtained with identical image-acquisition settings; YFP was excited at 488 nm, and images were obtained with a 500 ms exposure time. For quantifying the effect of BRZ and BL on BZR1-YFP localization, images were obtained with a 200 ms exposure time (CITATIONA). For the time course experiment (CITATIONB), seedlings were grown on 2 μM BRZ in the dark for 4 days, then mounted on a slide in 100 nM BL, and imaged immediately to obtain the image at time zero. The same field of view was imaged subsequently for the duration of the time course described in CITATIONB. A similar change in nuclear localization was observed when seedlings already under the microscope in liquid MS medium were profused with BL solution. Time course experiments were repeated three times, and representative data are shown in CITATIONB. Images of YFP fluorescence in BiFC assays were obtained by using 488 nm excitation with a 500 ms exposure time (CITATION). All images were analyzed in ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). To measure the ratio between nuclear and cytoplasmic signals of BZR1-YFP for each cell, a small area of fixed size (21 pixels) was drawn, and measurements of integrated densities were taken from representative areas within the nucleus, cytoplasm, and background (central vacuole) of each cell. Three repeat measurements were performed for each cell, and the average of background values was then subtracted from the average values for the nuclear and cytoplasmic signals. The nuclear to cytoplasmic signal ratio was then calculated for each cell. The average nuclear/cytoplasmic signal ratio and standard error for independent T1 transgenic lines were calculated from measurements of at least seven cells from each plant (CITATIONB). Line scan measurements spanning both the nucleus and cytoplasm were also carried out, and representative plot profiles of sample measurements are presented in CITATIONA. For quantifying the BiFC signal, an outline was drawn around each transformed cell, and the signal intensity (integrated density) of the whole cell was calculated after subtracting the mean background density measured from an adjacent untransformed cell. Signal intensities from at least seven transformed cells were then averaged (CITATIONG).
