!~ABS~! At the core of the eukaryotic circadian network, clock genes/proteins form multiple transcriptional/translational negative-feedback loops and generate a basic ∼24 hr oscillation, which provides daily regulation for a wide range of processes. This temporal organization enhances the fitness of the organism only if it corresponds to the natural day/night cycles. Light is the most effective signal in synchronizing the oscillator to environmental cycles.
!~RES~! lip1-1 was initially isolated as an early-phase phase mutant based on the expression pattern of the morning-expressed CAB2:LUC circadian output marker during the first 36 hr in constant dark (DD) ( CITATION A). However, prolonged free-running experiments in constant red light (LL) demonstrated that the period length of lip1-1 is 1.5–2 hr shorter than that of wild-type (WT) plants ( CITATION B). A different molecular marker, the evening-expressed CCR2:LUC+ , also displayed a similar short-period phenotype in LL and DD ( CITATION C and 1D, respectively), and leaf movement rhythms were also shortened in lip1-1 ( CITATION ). These results indicate that LIP1 is not a component of the output pathway, because the mutation affects several different overt rhythms. To test the light dependecy of the phenotype, the rhythmic expression of CCR2:LUC+ was measured in etiolated WT and lip1-1 plants entrained by 12 hr 24°C/12 hr 18°C temperature cycles for 3 days and released to constant 22°C. Both WT and lip1-1 seedlings showed clear oscillations, but the period length of CCR2:LUC+ was significantly shorter in lip1-1 (25.4 ± 0.1 hr [SEM]) than in WT (27.92 ± 0.46 hr). This result demonstrates that LIP1 is required for normal clock function in plants grown in the complete absence of light. In plants, there is an inverse relationship between the free-running period length in LL and the fluence rate of the light: the higher the fluence rate, the shorter the period. As a result, fluence rate curves (FRCs, plots of period values as the function of fluence rates) in plants show a negative slope CITATION . To construct FRCs, WT and lip1-1 seedlings expressing CCR2:LUC+ were entrained by 12:12 LD cycles for 1 week and transferred to different fluences of constant red or blue light. CITATION shows that period lengths in the mutant seedlings remain almost constant over the tested range of fluence rates, in contrast to WT plants, where periods are shortened by increasing light intensity. As a result, periods of WT and mutant plants were indistinguishable at medium and high fluences of red light ( CITATION A) and high fluences of blue light ( CITATION B). Moreover, period lengths in lip1-1 plants in DD fall in the range of period values plotted on FRCs, further corroborating the fact that light has very little effect on the pace of the clock in lip1-1 ( CITATION ). Light input is important not only for tuning the period length but also for daily entrainment. It is a well-known phenomenon that the clock restricts its own sensitivity to resetting stimuli to particular times of the day, especially around dawn and dusk by rhythmic regulation of the input components. To test whether the mutation affects this function, we scanned the entrainability of the clock during a circadian cycle. Seedlings free-running in DD were irradiated for 1 hr by red light pulses (18 μmol m −2 s −1 ) in every 3 hr. The phase of the circadian rhythm shifts upon these resetting light pulses. After correction by the free running period of the untreated plants, the phase shifts were plotted as a function of the time of the given resetting stimuli, yielding the phase response curves (PRCs) of lip1-1 and WT plants ( CITATION C). The most significant difference between lip1-1 and WT plants in sensitivity for resetting stimuli can be observed during the first half of the subjective night. This suggests an important function for LIP1 at this time of the cycle. To see how period length and mRNA level of some of the core oscillator components is affected by LIP1, we analyzed the temporal expression of the morning-expressed core oscillator genes CCA1 , LHY , and the evening-expressed TOC1 . The period length of the CCA1:LUC+ and LHY:LUC+ reporters was tested in WT and lip1-1 seedlings under low fluences of red light ( CITATION A and S1B in the CITATION available online). We found that the 1.5–2 hr short-period phenotype is apparent in all cases in the mutant plants by the fourth day of the free run ( CITATION ). The rhythmic accumulation of CCA1 , LHY , and TOC1 mRNA was measured in lip1-2 ( lip1-2 is a T-DNA insertion null allele of lip1 in the Col-0 accession, see later) under the same conditions by northern blot ( CITATION A–3C). This figure shows that although the mutation alters the period length of rhythmic expression, the mean levels of either the morning- or the evening-expressed core oscillator genes are not affected significantly under free-running conditions. We also defined mRNA abundance of the same clock genes by quantitative PCR in seedlings grown in LD cycles. CITATION D and 3E show that expression patterns of CCA1 and LHY , respectively, were comparable in lip1-1 and WT seedlings. In contrast, CITATION F illustrates that the abundance of TOC1 mRNA was drastically reduced in lip1-1 as compared to WT. Genetic mapping of the lip1-1 mutant identified At5g64813 as LIP1 and showed that the mutation is caused by a deletion eliminating the first half of the gene (for detailed description, see CITATION and CITATION ) Successful complementation of lip1-1 by expressing the YFP-LIP1 fusion protein under the control of the 35S or the native LIP1 promoter verified the mapping data ( CITATION ). Based on the predicted amino acid sequence, LIP1 shows significant similarity to small GTPases CITATION , but with some remarkable differences. LIP1 contains peptide inserts at several positions that are missing from the classical small GTPases. The most interesting feature is the replacement of glutamine 94 (Q 94 ) for histidine (H). This catalytical glutamine is highly conserved in all of the classical small GTPases CITATION . Its mutation results in the loss of GTPase activity (while the protein still binds GTP), leading to a constitutively active state of the protein. Finally, LIP1 lacks specific motifs at the N or C terminus for lipid modifications ( CITATION ). In order to test whether LIP1 is a functional GTPase, we purified recombinant maltose-binding protein-LIP1 (MBP-LIP1) fusion proteins from Escherichia coli and tested for GTP-hydrolyzing activity with [α- 32 P]GTP as substrate. Reaction products were analyzed by thin layer chromatography. We were able to detect significant GTP hydrolyzing activity of LIP1, which clearly showes that, despite its atypical nature, LIP1 is a functional GTPase ( CITATION D). We characterized expression pattern of LIP1 at multiple levels. First, we showed that abundance of LIP1 mRNA in WT seedlings in LL is not significantly affected by the circadian clock and shows only a very weak oscillatory pattern, if any ( CITATION ). Second, we determined abundance of the YFP-LIP1 fusion protein in lip1-1 seedlings complemented by expressing the 35S:YFP-LIP1 transgene under the same conditions. Results obtained by western blot analysis do not exclude a possible, low-amplitude circadian oscillation in the YFP-LIP1 protein level with a peak around the subjective dusk at ZT 15 ( CITATION A). This expression pattern conditionally supports the PRC data indicating that LIP1 may function at the first half of the subjective night. Finally, we characterized the subcellular localization of the LIP1 protein in darkness, where it most clearly exerts its function. 4-day-old etiolated lip1-1 mutant plants expressing the YFP-LIP1 fusion protein were analyzed by confocal microscopy. YFP fluorescence can be observed both in the nucleus and the cytosol of hypocotyl epidermal cells ( CITATION B and 4C). The nucleus was evenly filled with YFP signal; nuclear speckles were not detected. The subcellular localization of LIP1 is not significantly affected by light; essentially the same distribution pattern was observed in light-grown plants (data not shown).
!~MM~! The lip1-1 mutant allele was isolated from EMS-mutagenized populations of the C24 accession carrying the CAB2:LUC reporter gene CITATION . Seeds of the T-DNA insertional lip1-2 allele (labeled as SAIL_1157_A08) established in Columbia ecotype were obtained from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (SAIL) through The Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC), the LIP1 cDNA clone was obtained from RIKEN (Tsukuba, Japan) CITATION . The mutant lines were backcrossed three times to the corresponding parental lines; the mutations segregated as single, recessive loci. Selection of homozygous lip1-1 mutants from segregating lines was carried out by allele-specific PCR with the following primer set: 5′-cccgaaatgcgtcagactaagattg-3′, 5′-ttccactgcttccttttgttccttct-3′, 5′-ccttcgaatttacttactagtgtttgagat-3′. The CCR2:LUC+ , CCA1:LUC+ , LHY:LUC+ reporter gene constructs were transformed into the mutant and wild-type lines via Agrobacterium -mediated transformation CITATION . Surface-sterilized seeds were grown in 12 hr white light (∼50 μmol m −2 s −1 )/12 hr dark cycles at 22°C for 7 days before being transferred to continuous darkness at ZT 12 or to continuous light at ZT 0, and all measurements were carried out at constant 22°C. ZT0 is defined as the time of the last dark-light transition before transfer to constant conditions. Illumination was provided by cool-white fluorescent tubes or monochromatic LED light sources (red, λ max = 667 nm; blue, λ max = 470 nm; far-red, λ max = 730 nm). Luciferase activity was measured by low-light video imaging of groups of 5–10 seedlings or by measuring single seedlings with an automated luminometer for 2–7 days as described previously CITATION . For FRCs, circadian periods of CCR2:LUC + activity were measured in seedlings transferred to constant illumination of red or blue light at the fluence rates indicated. For determining the circadian period of etiolated, temperature-entrained plants, seedlings were grown in darkness under 12 hr 22°C/12 hr 26°C for three cycles and transferred to constant 22°C at the time of the predicted warm-cold transition for luminescence imaging. Leaf movement rhythms were measured as described CITATION . All rhythm data were analyzed with the Biological Rhythms Analysis Software System (BRASS CITATION , available at http://www.amillar.org ), running fast Fourier transform nonlinear least-squares estimation CITATION . Variance-weighted mean periods within the circadian range (15–40 hr) and SEMs were estimated as described CITATION , from 10 to 36 traces per genotype. Phase response curves were created and calculated as described previously CITATION . Total RNA extraction, northern blotting, and quantification of CCA1, LHY , TOC1 , and 18S rRNA specific signals were performed as described CITATION . Full-length cDNA fragments were used for CCA1 , LHY , and TOC1 hybridizations. Two independent northern analyses were performed with each probe. All graphs show mRNA levels relative to the 18S rRNA transcript in wild-type (WT) and lip1-2 mutant plants. Protein extracts were prepared according to Bauer et al. CITATION . Quantitative PCR experiments were performed essentially as described CITATION . For detailed description and primer sequences, see CITATION . For hypocotyl length measurements, seeds were sown on half MS media with 1% agar and incubated in the dark for 48 hr at 4°C. Cold-treated seeds were then irradiated with 6 hr of white light and then transferred to 22°C dark for an additional 18 hr. After this treatment, seedlings were grown at different fluences of light for 4 days. Measurement of the hypocotyl length was performed by MetaMorph Software (Universal Imaging, Downingtown, PA). Hypocotyl lengths of light-grown seedlings were normalized to the corresponding dark-grown hypocotyl length. FRCs for hypocotyl elongation were obtained by plotting relative hypocotyl lengths against the light intensities used in the experiment displayed on a logarithmic scale. Subcellular distribution of YFP-LIP1 protein was analyzed in 4-day-old seedlings, as described previously CITATION . MBP fusion proteins were expressed in BL21 Rosetta strains of Escherichia coli (Novagen). Intrinsic GTPase activity of purified proteins was assayed in 20 μl reaction volume containing 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 10 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 10 μM cold GTP, 0.7 μCi of [α- 32 P]GTP, and 4 μM protein. Reactions were incubated for 10 hr at room temperature. 1 μl aliquots were spotted on silica TLC plates with glass support (Merck, Silica gel 60 F 254 ). Reaction products were separated in 1-propanol:cc.NH 4 OH:H 2 O (11:7:2). Dried TLC plates were visualized by a PhosphorImager device.
