!~ABS~! The circadian clock is essential for coordinating the proper phasing of many important cellular processes. Robust cycling of key clock elements is required to maintain strong circadian oscillations of these clock-controlled outputs. Rhythmic expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana F-box protein ZEITLUPE (ZTL) is necessary to sustain a normal circadian period by controlling the proteasome-dependent degradation of a central clock protein, TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 (TOC1) (CITATION) . ZTL messenger RNA is constitutively expressed, but ZTL protein levels oscillate with a threefold change in amplitude through an unknown mechanism (CITATION) . Here we show that GIGANTEA (GI) is essential to establish and sustain oscillations of ZTL by a direct protein–protein interaction. GI, a large plant-specific protein with a previously undefined molecular role, stabilizes ZTL in vivo. Furthermore, the ZTL–GI interaction is strongly and specifically enhanced by blue light, through the amino-terminal flavin-binding LIGHT, OXYGEN OR VOLTAGE (LOV) domain of ZTL. Mutations within this domain greatly diminish ZTL–GI interactions, leading to strongly reduced ZTL levels. Notably, a C82A mutation in the LOV domain, implicated in the flavin-dependent photochemistry, eliminates blue-light-enhanced binding of GI to ZTL. These data establish ZTL as a blue-light photoreceptor, which facilitates its own stability through a blue-light-enhanced GI interaction. Because the regulation of GI transcription is clock-controlled, consequent GI protein cycling confers a post-translational rhythm on ZTL protein. This mechanism of establishing and sustaining robust oscillations of ZTL results in the high-amplitude TOC1 rhythms necessary for proper clock function.
!~RES~! To understand how post-transcriptional stability of ZTL protein is achieved, we examined ZTL levels in mutants known to affect circadian period. Among these, gigantea (gi) mutations cause allele-specific effects on the period (CITATION) . We tested a wide range of gi alleles and all strongly reduce ZTL to near undetectable levels (Fig. 1a). Under light/dark cycles (Fig. 1b), continuous light and constant darkness (data not shown), gi mutations eliminate the normal 3–5-fold cyclic expression of ZTL (CITATION) . Conversely, constitutive high expression of GI (GI-OX) increases ZTL abundance to constitutively high levels (Fig. 1a, b). In all GI backgrounds ZTL mRNA levels remain unchanged, indicating a post-transcriptional control of ZTL (Fig. 1a, b). [[FIGURE]] We also examined the effect of ZTL levels on GI expression. In plants expressing GI-GI–TAP (CITATION) , GI–TAP (tandem affinity purification) protein levels were markedly diminished in the absence of ZTL (ztl-103) relative to wild type, with no effect on GI–TAP mRNA expression (Fig. 1c). These results indicate that GI is not a proteolytic substrate of the SCFZTL E3 ubiquitin ligase, but rather that ZTL and GI proteins cooperatively stabilize each other. The phenotype of the double mutant supports this conclusion, as the period of gi-2 ztl-103 is much longer than gi-2 alone and nearly identical to ztl-103 (Supplementary Fig. 1; ref. 6). To determine whether sustained ZTL levels in GI-OX plants were due to increased ZTL stabilization, we performed cell-free in vitro degradation assays at times of most labile (ZT1; Zeitgeber Time1) and most stable (ZT13) ZTL (CITATION) . At ZT1, high GI levels markedly reduce the ZTL degradation rate, indicating that GI acts post-translationally to stabilize ZTL protein (Fig. 1d). We next determined whether a direct interaction between GI and ZTL might be responsible for the stabilization. In vitro interaction tests between 35S-labelled GI and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged ZTL and the related family members, FLAVIN-BINDING, KELCH REPEAT, F-BOX (FKF1) (CITATION) and LOV KELCH REPEAT PROTEIN 2 (LKP2) (CITATION) , showed a strong, specific interaction, when compared to GST alone or a negative control (CITATION) (Fig. 2a). Quantitative two-hybrid assays with full-length ZTL confirmed this interaction (Fig. 2b). We observed a similar degree of interaction between GI and LKP2, but not between FKF1 and GI in this system (Fig. 2b). We tested different ZTL domains and found extremely strong binding of GI to the LOV domain (Fig. 2c), a flavin-binding region implicated in blue-light signalling in these and other molecules (CITATION) . Together these data indicate that all the necessary determinants for interaction reside in the GI and ZTL proteins. [[FIGURE]] To map more finely the interaction domains of ZTL, we carried out in vivo transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana (CITATION) . Expression constructs of ZTL were co-infiltrated with full-length green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged GI into N. benthamiana. ZTL interacts strongly with GI in vivo (Fig. 2d; compare lanes 1 and 9), as do FKF1 and LKP2 (Supplementary Figs 2 and 3). We extended these trials to test discrete domains of ZTL (LOVF, Fkelch) and found that only the LOVF polypeptide interacts with GI (Fig. 2d; compare lanes 10 and 11). These results support the in vitro and yeast findings, demonstrating that the ZTL N-terminal region contains the determinants for GI interactions in planta. We next exploited an assemblage of ztl mutants to map further the ZTL interaction domain. All mutations tested diminish, or are predicted to reduce, ZTL activity or cause period-lengthening similar to a true ztl null (CITATION) . Mutations in the F-box or kelch domains have little effect on the in vivo interaction between GI and ZTL (Fig. 2e). Because the double (L220A/L213A) and single (E203K) F-box mutations abrogate ZTL interaction with the Arabidopsis Skp1-like protein1 (ASK1) (CITATION) these results indicate that GI interaction with ZTL is independent of the larger SCF ligase complex. Additionally, because the two kelch mutations (D425N and G452D) reduce interaction with TOC1 (refs 2, 17), the GI–ZTL interaction does not require the presence of a ZTL substrate. Attempts to isolate a GI–ZTL–TOC1 complex in vivo were unsuccessful, supporting this notion. In contrast, three point mutations in the LOV domain strongly diminish GI–ZTL binding. The G46E mutation was recovered in a screen for suppressors of the arrhythmic phenotype of the ZTL overexpressor (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. 4). This single amino acid change results in no detectable ZTL in GI immunoprecipitates (Fig. 2e). When expressed in Arabidopsis (Supplementary Fig. 4) or N. benthamiana, ZTL(G46E) protein migrates more slowly than wild type and other ZTL mutant proteins, suggesting aberrant folding (Fig. 2e). We introduced a mutation at the Cys 82 residue (C82A) because it is predicted to interact with the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) moiety present within the ZTL LOV domain (CITATION) . The cognate cysteines in the phototropin LOV domains are essential to confer photochemical activity to these molecules (CITATION) . Strikingly, the C82A mutation diminishes the ZTL–GI interaction more than fivefold, relative to the wild type (Fig. 2e). The G119D mutation (ztl-21), first identified in a screen for long period mutants (CITATION) , also strongly reduces the ZTL–GI interaction (Fig. 2e). ztl-21 protein cycling is reduced in amplitude, with peak levels reduced threefold (Fig. 2f). These reduced levels are expected if the GI interaction necessary for ZTL stabilization is diminished. Taken together, these results strongly demonstrate the necessary and sufficient role of the ZTL LOV domain in facilitating interaction with GI. We next examined the ZTL–GI interaction in Arabidopsis using constructs expressing GI–TAP or GI–HA (haemagglutinin) from the native GI promoter. We first determined whether both proteins have overlapping spatial expression in the plant. ZTL is exclusively found in the cytosol, whereas GI–TAP or GI–HA is present both in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 3a; Supplementary Fig. 5a, c). Hence, GI–ZTL interactions probably only occur in the cytosol in planta. [[FIGURE]] Co-operative stabilization implies a similar phase of expression, and peak expression of both GI and ZTL occur near early evening (∼ZT11–13) in light/dark cycles (Fig. 3a). We next tested immunoprecipitates from GI-GI–TAP extracts (CITATION) for the presence of ZTL. During the light and dark periods, ZTL levels closely correlated with the increasing and decreasing steady-state level of GI (Fig. 3a; light/dark), showing that ZTL and GI exist in a complex together in proportion to their total abundances. We next asked whether the fraction of ZTL complexed with GI is light dependent. Although the amount of GI immunoprecipitated at ZT17 and ZT21, relative to ZT13, was similar in light/dark cycles and continuous light (Fig. 3b), the relative ZTL level was disproportionately higher in continuous light at ZT21, suggesting a light-enhanced interaction between ZTL and GI (Fig. 3b, compare ZTL light/dark and continuous light; Fig. 3a). We determined the effective wavelength by replacing the dark period with either red or blue light. Blue light caused a transient increase in the amount of immunoprecipitated GI at ZT17, but by ZT21 GI levels were similar under all conditions (Fig. 3b, c). In contrast, ZTL levels in the immunoprecipitates were consistently significantly higher under blue light (Fig. 3b; Fig. 3c compare co-immunoprecipitated light/blue (LB), light/red (LR) and light/dark (LD) cycles), indicating a blue-light-enhanced GI–ZTL interaction. If blue-light activation of the LOV domain is responsible for this increased interaction, mutations in the LOV domain should diminish or eliminate blue-light-enhanced GI–ZTL binding. We determined the relative proportion of wild-type or mutant ZTL in GI immunoprecipitates from N. benthamiana extracts when expressed together under dark, white, red or blue light. The GI–ZTL interaction was enhanced fourfold in blue light, relative to dark or red light, and similar to results in white light (Fig. 3d). Kelch (D425N) and F-box (L200A, L213A) mutations showed blue-light-enhanced interactions very similar to wild type, indicating GI–ZTL light-enhanced interactions independent of these domains. Similarly, the G119D mutation has little effect on the blue-light-enhanced interaction and differences between dark, red and blue light remain significantly different, indicating that the mutation diminishes the GI–ZTL interaction in a similar manner across light conditions (compare with Fig. 2e). Strikingly, the C82A mutation entirely eliminates the blue-light-enhanced interaction. Although the GI–ZTL interaction was strongly reduced in white light by this mutation (Fig. 2e), ZTL was, similarly, weakly detectable in GI immunoprecipitates under all four light conditions (Fig. 3d). These results demonstrate that blue-light-enhanced binding between ZTL and GI requires a photo-activated LOV domain, which is abrogated by the C82A mutation. Notably, FMN is still bound to LOV domains with this mutation, indicating that photo-activation is necessary for complete function (CITATION) . Light absorption by the LOV domain may affect ZTL interactions with proteins outside the N terminus. Therefore, we next asked whether light also affects the binding of ZTL and TOC1. The amount of ZTL associated with the TOC1 immune complex was determined from N. benthamiana plants incubated in darkness, red or blue light. In strong contrast to the ZTL–GI interaction, there was no effect of light on the association of TOC1 and ZTL (Fig. 3e). Hence, among the known interaction partners of ZTL, the LOV domain seems dedicated to the control of the GI–ZTL interaction. Because TOC1 is a proteolytic target of ZTL, an expected consequence of reduced ZTL in gi mutants is increased TOC1 levels. We compared the levels of TOC1–YFP (yellow fluorescent protein) (CITATION) under light/dark cycles in gi-2 and wild-type plants. We found a significant increase in TOC1 protein during the light period, and a moderate decrease during the dark period (Fig. 4a). This net result of reduced amplitude is consistent with reduced ZTL abundance. The amplitude and levels of TOC1–YFP message are unchanged in a GI-deficient background (Fig. 4b; ref. 6), suggesting that the weak residual cycling of TOC1 derives from the tracking of clock-regulated TOC1–YFP mRNA. These results directly link the circadian control of TOC1 to GI, by the control of ZTL protein levels. [[FIGURE]] Our data demonstrate a new and an unexpected relationship between ZTL, a component of an E3 ubiquitin ligase, and GI, an element of the photoperiodic flowering pathway and peripheral clock component, with a heretofore unidentified function. In this relationship, ZTL’s role as a photoreceptor is to enhance its own stability at specific times during the circadian and photocycles. The blue-light-enhanced cooperative stabilization of GI and ZTL boosts the amplitude and refines and sharpens the circadian waveform of both proteins, allowing for their rapid deployment in the light, and accelerated loss in the dark, in which the ZTL–GI interaction is weakened. This interaction is critical for establishing the rhythm for ZTL and leads to amplification and sharpening of the expression profile of TOC1 (Fig. 4a; Supplementary Fig. 6). The simultaneous in-phase expression of GI, ZTL and TOC1 in the cytoplasm, and the absence of ZTL from the nucleus, suggests that it is the dynamics of the cytosolic interactions of these three proteins that determines the levels of TOC1 in the nucleus, where it may act (CITATION) . These findings also define a new, third, function of the LOV domain in eukaryotes. The LOV domains of plant phototropin and Neurospora WHITE COLLAR 1 (WC-1) facilitate blue-light-dependent autophosphorylation and protein–DNA interactions, respectively (CITATION) . The ZTL LOV domain promotes blue-light-enhanced binding to GI, and this protein–protein interaction confers post-translational circadian regulation on ZTL. This new regulatory mechanism can be added to the growing list of post-translational processes (for example, phosphorylation and SUMOylation (CITATION) ) that contribute to the essential robustness of the circadian system.
!~MM~! Except where indicated, the Columbia ecotype of Arabidopsis was used. gi-1, gi-2, gi-3, gi-4, gi-5, gi-6 (ref. 4), TOC1-TOC1–YFP (CITATION) , 35S-GI-OX (Ler) (CITATION) , GI-GI–TAP (CITATION) , ztl-21 (ref. 17) and 35S-ZTLOX (CITATION) have been described previously. The T-DNA insertion line in the GI gene is identical to gi-t (ref. 28) and gi-201 (ref. 6). Double mutants of GI-GI–TAP ztl-103 were obtained by crossing and genotyped by PCR (CITATION) . Further details are found in the Methods. Bioluminescent imaging of free-running rhythms and subsequent period analysis was as previously described (cited in ref. 19). Full details of constructs and two-hybrid analysis are found in the Methods. Immunoprecipitations were performed as described (CITATION) with modifications. See Methods for full details of protein extraction, GST pull-down assays, immunoblotting and immunopreciptations. RNA was extracted using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) and quantified by spectrophotometer. Transcripts were quantified by reverse transcription (RT)–PCR followed by ethidium-bromide-staining. Reverse transcription was performed using SuperScript II RT (Invitrogen), oligo(dT)12–18 (Invitrogen), and 4 µg of total RNA according to the manufacturer's instructions. The PCR reaction was done with two different sets of primers: gene specific primers and actin (ACT) primers, in the same PCR. ACT was used to normalize the amount of complementary DNA. Different numbers of cycles (23, 21 and 23) were used for ZTL, GI–TAP and TOC1–YFP, respectively. See Methods for primer sequences and annealing temperatures. To generate 35S-GI–GFP in gi-2, the 35S-GI–GFP plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (AGL1) by electroporation and transformed into gi-2 plants (CITATION) . Two transgenic lines showing early flowering, short hypocotyls in constant red light, and altered leaf movement rhythm in constant light after entrainment in light/dark cycles (data not shown) were characterized and one used here. The GI-GI–HA gene expression construct, consisting of the GI genomic region (from pPZP121-GI clone from E. Huq and P. Quail) including a 2.7-kb upstream region with a triple-HA epitope tag inserted upstream of the stop codon to create an in-frame GI–HA protein fusion, was transformed into gi-2 plants. Details of the vector construction are available from the authors. The late flowering of the gi-2 mutant was rescued in three lines, one of which was used here. ztl(G46E) was isolated in a mutant screen for revertant rhythmic expressors of cab2-luciferase in a background of 35S-ZTL long hypocotyl, overexpressing plants (arrhythmic) (C24 ecotype). Seeds of a transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana line expressing 35S-ZTL were mutagenized with 0.3% ethyl methanesulfonate and assayed under white fluorescent light (30 µm, 12-h-light/12-h-dark) for 7 to 10 days. Seedlings having shorter hypocotyls compared to the 35S-ZTL parent were transferred to new plates for period analysis. The mutation was confirmed by DNA sequencing of the ZTL transgene. To create the 35S-GI–GFP construct, the protein-coding sequence of the GI cDNA was generated by PCR with Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene), using the full length GI cDNA in pBluescript II SK(+) plasmid (CITATION) as template and the primers, GI-GFP-F: TGGTTCTAGAATGGCTAGTTCATCTTCATC and GI-GFP-R: TTTTTCTAGATTGGGACAAGGATATAGTACA. The GI sequence in the final construct was confirmed by sequencing. The 35S-GI–TAP construct was prepared using the LR recombination reaction (GATEWAY) starting with a pENTR 1A entry vector containing a GI cDNA clone generated by PCR from a full-length GI cDNA in pBluescript II SK(+) plasmid (CITATION) as template and cloned in by EcoRI/ NotI using the primer sets: 5′-GAATTCTTATGGCTAGTTCATCTTC-3′ and 5′-GCGGCCGCTGGGACAAGGATATAGTACA-3′. The GI sequence was confirmed by sequencing and the final construct was established by LR recombination with the pC-TAPa vector (CITATION) . The pTriEX GI construct (GST pull down) was generated by PCR with Pfu DNA polymerase, using the full-length GI cDNA as template and the primer sets, 5′-GGATCCGATGGCTAGTTCATC-3′ and 5′-GGTACCATTGGGACAAGGATATAG-3′. PCR products were digested with BamHI and KpnI and ligated into the pTriEx-1 vector (Novagen). ZTL cDNA sequence was subcloned into pGEX-KG to make the GST-FL ZTL construct as previously described (CITATION) , For LKP2 and FKF1, full-length cDNA sequences were amplified using plasmid template containing the genomic DNA from LKP2-OX and FKF1 cDNA sequences, respectively, and subcloned into pGEX-KG. GST-SPL11 constructs were kindly provided by G.-l. Wang (CITATION) . The unique identifiers of the genes discussed are: ZTL, AT5G57360; TOC1, AT5G61380; ACT2, AT3G18780; GI, AT1G22770; SPL11, AY652590; LKP2, AT2G18915; and FKF1, AT1G68050. GST, GST–LKP2, GST–FKF1, GST–SPL and GST–ZTL were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) and purified with glutathione–agarose (Sigma). 35S-labelled GI protein was synthesized by using the T'n'T in vitro transcription–translation system (Promega) according to the manufacturer's instructions. In vitro binding assays were according to (ref. 18) with minor modifications. Concentration of each fusion protein was determined by Coomassie staining. The amount of glutathione–agarose beads with bound GST, GST–LKP2, GST–FKF1, GST–SPL and GST–ZTL was adjusted to use equal amounts of fusion protein for the in vitro binding reactions. The beads were then washed twice with binding buffer and once with TBS buffer. The bound protein was eluted in 1× SDS sample buffer and size-fractionated on 8% SDS–PAGE along with 0.05 μl 35S-labelled GI as input. Detection was by autoradiography. The protein coding sequence of the GI cDNA was cloned into the pGilda vector (DupLEX-A) and pOST4-5, a modified vector for pJG4-5 containing the same multiple cloning sites as pGilda, for bait and for prey, respectively. The bait and prey clones for the protein-coding sequence of ZTL, FKF1 and LKP2 were prepared using LR recombination reaction (GATEWAY). The final bait and prey constructs were established by LR recombination reaction using the ZTL, FKF1 or LKP2 entry clone and the Gateway version of pGilda or pOST4-5, according to the manufacturer's instructions. The bait or prey clones for the sub-domains of ZTL were prepared using LR recombination reaction (GATEWAY). The protein-coding sequence of the KELCH and LOV domains in ZTL were generated by PCR with Pfu DNA polymerase, using the full-length ZTL cDNA clone (RAFL05-03-P09, RIKEN; refs 31, 32) as template and the primer sets: 5′- ATGACCACCCTTGAAGCT-3′ and 5′-TTACGTGAGATAGCTCGCTA-3′ for KELCH, and the primer sets: 5′-CTTCTGCAGATGGAGTGGGACAGTGGTTCC-3′ and 5′- CTTAGGCCTTCATCGGGAAACATTCCGCTCCC-3′ for LOV, and the resulting clones confirmed by sequencing. The final bait and prey constructs were established by LR recombination reaction using the entry clones for the subdomains of ZTL and the gateway version of pGilda or pOST4-5, according to the manufacturer's instructions. Expression of all proteins was confirmed by immunoblot analysis. Vectors and strains of a LexA-based yeast two-hybrid system (DupLEX-A, OriGene Technologies) were used. Sets of constructs were co-transformed into EGY48 (ura3, his3, trp1, leu::6 LexAop-LEU2)-containing lacZ reporter plasmid pSH18-34 (ref. 33). Quantitative yeast two-hybrid interaction assays were performed according to published protocols. For detection of ZTL, GI–TAP, GI–HA, ADK and Histone H3 from Arabidopsis, extracts were prepared from 10-day-old seedlings grown in the indicated light conditions. Ground tissue was resuspended in extraction buffer by vortexing and clarified by centrifugation. Supernatant was concentrated by TCA precipitation and resuspended in urea/SDS loading buffer. Separation was on 8% (150:1, acrylamide:bis) or 10% (37.5:1, acrylamide:bis) SDS–PAGE and subjected to immunoblot analysis. Immunoprecipitations were performed according to ref. 3 with minor modifications. For immunoprecipitation of GI–GFP and co-immunoprecipitation of ZTL, anti-GFP mouse monoclonal antibody (anti-GFP, mAb 3E6; Molecular Probes) was pre-incubated with protein A agarose (Invitrogen) at 4 °C, after which protein extracts were incubated for 1 h with gentle rotation. Immune complexes were washed four times, resuspended in SDS–PAGE sample buffer, briefly heated and subjected to SDS/PAGE and immunoblotting. For GI–TAP co-expressed with LKP2–GFP/ZTL–GFP and FKF1–TAP co-expressed with GI–GFP, supernatants were incubated with IgG-agarose (Sigma) and harvested immune complexes were washed twice with buffer, and elution from IgG beads performed using 3 C Protease (2 units µl-1, Precision Protease, Amersham Bioscience) for GI–TAP complexes, and AcTEV protease (10 units µl-1, Invitrogen), for FKF1–TAP complexes. Supernatant was collected after centrifugation, resuspended in SDS–PAGE sample buffer, briefly heated and subjected to SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. For GI–TAP expression analysis, Arabidopsis tissues were harvested as indicated and extracts were prepared in buffer by gentle vortexing and clarified by centrifugation. Immune complexes were purified and processed as above. Protein was transferred to PVDF membrane (Bio-Rad) by standard techniques. For ZTL, ADK, GI–TAP, TOC1–TAP and histone H3, each immunoblot was incubated with the appropriate primary antibody (affinity-purified anti-ZTL antibody, 1:666; anti-ADK antibody, 1:1,000; peroxidase anti-peroxidase complex (PAP) (Sigma), 1:1,000; anti-histone H3 (Abcam), 1:1,000; anti-His6 (Abcam)) for 4 h at room temperature or over night 4 °C. GFP, HA and Thioredoxin h3 immunoblots were incubated with primary antibodies (anti-GFP rabbit polyclonal antibody (1:2,000) (Molecular Probes or Abcam); anti-HA antibody, (1:2,000) (Abcam); Thioredoxin h3, (1:3,000)]. The membranes were developed using peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (1:3,000–5,000) (GE, UK or Sigma) by enhanced chemiluminescence (SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent substrate; Pierce Biotechnology). Cytoplasmic fractions were prepared with extraction, vortexed and clarified by centrifugation at at 4 °C. For ZTL and GI–HA immunoblots, supernatant protein was concentrated by TCA precipitation as described above. Nuclei were isolated using CelLytic Plant Nuclei Isolation/Extraction Kit (Sigma) and stored at -70 °C. Cytoplasmic extract:nuclear extract were loaded with a ratio of 1:6 (GI–HA) and 1:2 (TOC1–YFP and ZTL). The primer sequences and annealing temperatures used to amplify ZTL, GI–TAP, TOC1–YFP and ACT fragments are: ZTL, 50 °C, 5′-GATCTAAGCGCCGATGATGC-3′ and 5′-GCTAACAGATGCAACGTCTC-3′; GI–TAP, 50 °C, 5′-GGAGTTGCAGCCTTGGATCG-3′ and 5′-AAGGTACCTCAGGTTGACTTCCCCGC-3′; TOC1–YFP, 50 °C, 5′- CTTGACAGAAGAGAGGAAGC-3′ and 5′-ACGCTGAACTTGTGGCCGTTTACG-3′; ACT, 50 °C, 5′-GTTGAACGGAAGGGATTGAGAGT-3′ and 5′-AAAACCACTTACAGAGTTCGTTCG-3′.
