!~ABS~! Two putative Arabidopsis E group bZIP transcript factors, AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61, are nuclear-localized and their transcriptional activation domain is in their N-terminal region. By searching GenBank, we found other eight plant homologues of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61. All of them have a proline residue in the third heptad of zipper region. Yeast two-hybrid assay and EMSA showed that AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 could not form homodimer while their mutant forms, AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m, which the proline residue was replaced by an alanine residue in the zipper region, could form homodimer and bind G-box element. These results suggest that the conserved proline residue interferes with the homodimer formation. However, both AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 could form heterodimers with members of I group and S group transcription factors in which some members involved in vascular development. So we speculate that AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 may participate in plant development via interacting with other group bZIP transcription factors.
!~RES~! bZIP region of AtbZIP61 (sequence from 198aa to 302aa) was used for blast search in GenBank database, ten bZIP proteins with high similarity to AtbZIP61 were found, which all have a proline residue in the third heptad of zipper region. These 10 proteins belong to different species: two from Arabidopsis, three from rice and five from other plant species. The two Arabidopsis bZIP proteins are AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61, belonging to the members of bZIP E group. All these 10 bZIP proteins have a relatively conserved structure: their basic region is highly conserved with only one residues differed, and also the leucine zipper region is highly conserved. Besides that, three other conserved regions can be found in N-terminal, designated as D1, D2, D3, although their functions remain unknown (CITATIONA). Basing on the sequence alignment result we found the differences between members of I and E group were more than a different amino acids residues at position −10 in the basic region, members of I group do not have a proline residue in the third leucine heptad of zipper region; the homology of basic region between AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 is 94.2%, that between AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP51 (a member of I group) is only 48.1% (CITATIONB). Moreover, members of I group do not have D1, D2, D3 conserved regions. Because dimer is the functional formation of bZIP proteins, the yeast two-hybrid assay was carried out to study the character of dimerization of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61. AtbZIP34ΔN or AtbZIP61ΔN which deleted N-terminal transcription activation domain fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain as bait, respectively. Full length of AtbZIP34, or AtbZIP61 fused behind a GAL4 transcriptional activation domain as prey, respectively. Bait and prey were co-introduced into the yeast strain AH109. We observed homodimerization by co-expressing BDbZIP34ΔN/ADbZIP34, or BDAtbZIP61ΔN/ADAtbZIP61, respectively, in yeast cells. To our surprising, the yeast cells with co-expressing BDAtbZIP34ΔN/ADAtbZIP34, or BDAtbZIP61ΔN/ADAtbZIP61 did not grow or hardly grow in SD/-Trp-Leu-His-Ade selective medium (CITATION A). This means AtbZIP34 or AtbZIP61 could not form homodimer. Electrostatic conflicting in the leucine zipper region is the major reason why the GBF4 can not form homodimer CITATION. We analyzed the leucine zipper region of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61, the residues for interaction in certain sites in the leucine heptads do not exist electrostatic conflicting. But we noticed the proline residue in the third leucine heptad of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61.The α-helix can be stopped by the proline residue. It can be inferred the proline residue in the leucine zipper region of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 may interfere with the formation of coiled-coil structure that would result in the difficulty for AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 to form homodimer. We got the mutants in which proline was replaced by alanine in leucine region of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61, these two mutants were called AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m. The yeast cells with co-expressing BDAtbZIP34ΔNm/ADAtbZIP34m grew well in SD/-Trp-Leu-His-Ade selective medium (CITATION). The similar result was also got for AtbZIP61m. The strength of interaction was quantified with β-gal assay making use of the lacZ reporter gene. The interaction between BDAtbZIP34ΔNm and ADAtbZIP34m resulted in 3.5-fold higher β-gal activity than that observed between BDAtbZIP34ΔN and ADAtbZIP34, the corresponding result of AtbZIP61m was 5.8-fold higher. This result was verified our inference that the proline residue in the lucine zipper would interfere with the homodimer formation of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61. The bZIP region is relatively similar between members of E and I group, the length of ZIP region of members of E group is same as that of I group. So, we deduce they are potential to interact with each other. The result of yeast two-hybrid assay verified our inference that AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 could interact with AtbZIP51 and form heterodimer (CITATION). We also found AtbZIP43, a member of bZIP S group, could interact with AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 (CITATION). We used AtbZIP16, a member of bZIP G group as control and found they had no interaction between AtbZIP43 and AtbZIP16. So, the interactions between AtbZIP43 and AtbZIP34 or between AtbZIP43 and AtbZIP61 were specific. Members of I group and their orthologues in several plants can bind G-box and nonpalindromic boxes such as rbe, AC-I and vs-1 CITATION. The basic regions between members of I group and members of E group have some similarities but residue in position −10 is arginine in members of E group which is placed by lysine in members of I group, this substitution would affect their DNA binding specificity. We carried out EMSA to test DNA binding specificity of members of E group. Because AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 could not form homodimer, we used AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m to test DNA binding. The full length proteins of AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m were expressed in vitro using TNT coupled transcription/translation reticulocyte lysate system (Promga). The translated products were incubated with radio-labeled oligonucleotides containing G-box. As shown in CITATION , AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m bound G-box specifically and formed protein–DNA complex. AtbZIP34m or AtbZIP61m interacted with the G-box was inhibited by an excess amount of unlabeled G-box. We also got AtbZIP61 translated product, this product was incubated with radio-labeled oligonulceotides containing G-box, and band for protein–DNA complex was not found (CITATIONB). The result was consistent with that of the yeast two-hybrid assay which AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 could not form homodimer. Nonpalindromic boxes, such as rbe, AC-I and vs-1 were also tested, but we did not find any of them could be bound by AtbZIP34m and AtbZIP61m (date not shown). AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 have nuclear location signal in the basic region. As putative transcription factors, they are likely to be localized in the nucleus. To localize AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 protein, we used full length CDS in frame fusion with sequence encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP). The plasmid containing 35S:GFP-AtbZIP34 (or AtbZIP61) was bombarded into onion epidermal cells. The recombinant GFP-AtbZIP34 and GFP-AtbZIP61 accumulated dominantly in the nucleus of onion epidermal cells (CITATION B). While GFP accumulated in both cytoplasm and nucleus of onion epidermal cells in GFP control (CITATIONB). The results suggested AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 were nuclear-localized proteins. To test whether AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 possess the potential activation domain, the full-length coding region of AtbZIP34 or AtbZIP61 was fused in frame to the yeast GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD), respectively. Fusion protein BDAtbZIP34 and BDAtbZIP61 conferred high levels of LacZ expression in yeast reporter strain AH109 (CITATIOND), this result indicated that AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 were able to activate transcription in yeast cells. To figure out the transcriptional activation domain, N-terminal regions of both AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 were deleted and the fusion protein BDAtbZIP34ΔN and BDAtbZIP61ΔN were constructed. Yeast cells with expressing BDAtbZIP34ΔN or BDAtbZIP61ΔN did not grow in the SD/-Trp-His-Ade selective medium, suggesting the transcriptional activation domain was localized in their N-terminal. The C-terminal region of AtbZIP34 was deleted and fusion protein BDAtbZIP34ΔC was constructed. Yeast cells with expressing BDAtbZIP34ΔC grew in the SD/-Trp-His-Ade selective medium, therefore the transcriptional activation domain was not in their C-terminal.
!~MM~! Plant material. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) plants were cultured under controlled environmental conditions in 16h light/8h dark cycles, plants were maintained at 22°C. Gene cloning and plasmid construction. Total RNA was extracted with Trizol reagent from seedlings cultivated for 14 days, and reversely transcribed to cDNA according to the manufacturer’s instruction. The ORFs of AtbZIP34 (At2g42380) and AtbZIP61 (At3g58120) were isolated by RT-PCR via specific primers designed for amplification: AtbZIP34F: 5′ CACCACAAAATGGCACAACTCCCTCCTAAAATC 3′, AtbZIP34R: 5′ TGAGACATTGAGGAGCTGCTCTGT 3′, AtbZIP61F: 5′ CACCACAAAATGGCACAACTTCCTCCGAAAATC 3′, AtbZIP61R: 5′ GACATTGAGGAGCTGTTCCTTCTC 3′, The PCR products were purified and ligated into pENTER-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen, USA) and sequencing confirmed. Bioinformatic analysis of AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61. Protein sequence comparisons were carried out using BLAST at NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast). Multiple protein sequence alignment was performed using CLUSTALW (v1.8). Transcription activation assay and yeast two-hybrid analysis. The MATCHMAKER Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) was used for transcription activation assay and the yeast two-hybrid experiments. The activation domain (AD) vector was pGADT7 and the DNA-binding domain (BD) vector was pGBDT7. The yeast strain used was YH109. The experiments were carried out by following the manufacturer′s specifications. EMSA (Electrophoretic mobility shift assays). Complementary oligonucleotides were annealed in annealing buffer (10mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 100mM NaCl) at 70°C for 5min and cooled slowly to room temperature (∼30min). Oligonucleotides (10pmol) were end-labeled with [α-32P]dATP by filling-in the overhang using Klenow fragment. Binding reactions were performed as described in CITATION. DNA–protein complexes were resolved by electrophoresis through a 5% polyacrylamide gel (acrylamide:bisacrylamide ratio of 60:1) in 1× TBE for 2–2.5h at 150V. Subcellular localization of GFP-AtbZIP34 and GFP-AtbZIP61 in onion epidermal cells. The AtbZIP34 and AtbZIP61 full length CDS were cloned into a pRTL2S65TGFP vector (A.V. Arnim, X.W. Deng , unpublished data). The plasmid was isolated using Tiangen kits (Beijing, China), concentrated to about 1μg/μl and used to coat the tungsten particles for bombardment experiments. A plasmid containing GFP alone was concentrated as above and bombarded in parallel as controls. Transformation of onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells and localization of the protein were performed essentially as described in CITATION. After bombardment, onion cell layers were incubated for 48h at 22°C, the cell layers were then examined by fluorescence microscopy.
