!~ABS~! The initiation of meiotic recombination by the formation of DNA double‐strand breaks (DSBs) catalysed by the Spo11 protein is strongly evolutionary conserved. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Spo11 requires nine other proteins for meiotic DSB formation, but, unlike Spo11, few of these proteins seem to be conserved across kingdoms. In order to investigate this recombination step in higher eukaryotes, we have isolated a new gene, AtPRD1, whose mutation affects meiosis in Arabidopsis thaliana. In Atprd1 mutants, meiotic recombination rates fall dramatically, early recombination markers (e.g., DMC1 foci) are absent, but meiosis progresses until achiasmatic univalents are formed. Besides, Atprd1 mutants suppress DSB repair defects of a large range of meiotic mutants, showing that AtPRD1 is involved in meiotic recombination and is required for meiotic DSB formation. Furthermore, we showed that AtPRD1 and AtSPO11‐1 interact in a yeast two‐hybrid assay, suggesting that AtPRD1 could be a partner of AtSPO11‐1. Moreover, our study reveals similarity between AtPRD1 and the mammalian protein Mei1, suggesting that AtPRD1 could be a Mei1 functional homologue.
!~RES~! In a screen for T‐DNA insertions that generate meiotic mutants (CITATION), a line showing a semi‐sterile phenotype was identified. The semi‐sterile phenotype segregated 3:1 as a single recessive mutation, and was found to be linked to the T‐DNA insertion, allowing us to isolate the tagged meiotic gene (see Materials and methods). The mutant and the corresponding gene were called Atprd1‐1 and AtPRD1, respectively (for Arabidopsis thaliana Putative Recombination initiation Defect 1). The T‐DNA was found to be inserted in a predicted open reading frame (ORF) of the Arabidopsis genome, At4g14180. We selected from the SALK database (CITATION) a new insertion in At4g14180 (SALK_024703, Atprd1‐2; Supplementary data Sup_1A). We observed that this new insertion was also responsible for a meiotic phenotype when homozygous, and that both mutants were allelic (see Materials and methods). Furthermore, the Atprd1‐1 mutant was complemented by insertion of a T‐DNA construct containing a wild‐type genomic DNA fragment, harbouring the AtPRD1 gene and its putative promoter region (see Materials and methods), proving that disruption of At4g14180 was responsible for the isolated meiotic mutation. As no cDNA was available in the database for this ORF, we sequenced the corresponding cDNA isolated from flower buds (GenBank accession number EF195233). The resulting ORF is 3993 nucleotides long and codes for a protein of 1330 amino acids (aa) containing no putative conserved domains. An alignment of the isolated cDNA with the genomic DNA revealed a total of nine exons and eight introns (Supplementary data Sup_1A). Expression of AtPRD1, analysed by RT–PCR, was mainly found in young buds (Supplementary data Sup_1B). The mutant allele, Atprd1‐1, was found to carry an insertion in the second intron and Atprd1‐2 in the eighth exon of AtPRD1 (Supplementary data Sup_1A). Database searches using a BLASTP programme (Blosum 45) revealed significant sequence similarity (38% identity and 57% similarity) to a rice sequence (OsPRD1, NCBI accession number CAE02100). In addition, using tBLASTn programme, AtPRD1 putative homologues were found in Medicago truncatula, Populus trichocarpa and Physcomitrella patens genomes (see Materials and methods). BLASTP searches also revealed sequence similarity with the N‐terminal part of a human protein HsMei1 (accession number CAI17882), homologous to the mouse Mei1 protein involved in meiotic recombination (CITATION; CITATION). The greatest similarity between AtPRD1 and HsMei1 covers a region of one‐third of the protein (22% identity and 39% similarity over aa 50–396 of AtPRD1). Nevertheless, when similarity between the two proteins was scored directly (Blast2 sequence, Matrix Blosum 45) (CITATION), 17% identity and 34% similarity were found over 914 aa. No direct similarity was found between MmMei1 and AtPRD1, because MmMei1 is described as being shorter than the predicted HsMei1, being deleted of the first 379 aa. Nevertheless, genomic MmMei1 could code for a longer protein, according to genescan protein prediction software (CITATION), suggesting that MmMei1 is longer than described. We also performed a homology search using HsMei1 as a query and identified several putative vertebrate homologues such as Xenopus tropicalis (JGI sequence: e_gw1.19.261.1 from 40 to 3417 bp). Multiple alignment of AtPRD1 homologues was carried out using BioEdit software (version 7.0.5, Blosum 62), and revealed an overall alignment of all these proteins. Several stretches of conserved aa between plants and vertebrates can be observed, mainly located in the N‐terminal regions of these proteins (FIG-REF). Furthermore, all these proteins show a very high leucine content (14.2% for AtPRD1), and those leucines appeared to be scattered throughout the entire sequence of the protein (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Atprd1‐1 and Atprd1‐2 mutants did not show any vegetative growth defects, but displayed short silique elongation, suggesting fertility defects (Supplementary data Sup_2). The wild‐type plants developed siliques containing an average of 63.5 seeds/silique, whereas Atprd1‐1 plants produced only 2.62 (n=78) seeds/silique. The sterility of Atprd1‐1 and Atprd1‐2 mutants was correlated with abortion of the male and female gametophytes (data not shown). To identify the stages of sporogenesis and/or gametogenesis that were impaired in Atprd1 mutants, we examined developing male gametophytes by DIC microscopy of cleared buds. Comparison of the early steps of male sporogenesis did not reveal any difference between wild‐type and mutant plants (FIG-REF): round pollen mother cells (PMCs, also called meiocytes) were distinguished within the anther locules. In wild‐type anthers, these cells underwent two meiotic divisions to produce a characteristic tetrad of microspores enclosed in a callose wall (FIG-REF). Meiotic products were also detected in Atprd1 mutant plants, but lacked the regular tetrahedral structure, and were either asymmetric tetrads or ‘polyads’ containing more than four products (FIG-REF), suggesting disturbance of the meiotic program in both Atprd1‐1 and Atprd1‐2 mutants. [[FIGURE]] We therefore investigated the behaviour of meiotic chromosomes in Atprd1 mutants and in wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). Wild‐type Arabidopsis meiosis is summarised in FIG-REF). The 10 Arabidopsis chromosomes appeared as thread‐like structures at leptotene (not shown), then underwent synapsis from zygotene (FIG-REF) to pachytene (FIG-REF). After the disappearance of the synaptonemal complex (SC) at diplotene (not shown), the five bivalents condensed through diakinesis (FIG-REF). At metaphase I, the five bivalents were aligned on the metaphasic plate (FIG-REF). During anaphase I, each chromosome separated from its homologue, leading to the formation of dyads corresponding to two pools of five chromosomes (FIG-REF). The second meiotic division then separated the sister chromatids, generating four pools of five chromosomes (FIG-REF), which gave rise to tetrads of microspores (FIG-REF). In Atprd1 mutants (shown for Atprd1‐1), the leptotene stage appeared similar to wild type. The first observable defect was the absence of typical zygotene and pachytene stages. Instead, we observed a pachytene‐like stage (FIG-REF), with a clear absence of extended synapsis. In order to further investigate this synapsis defect, we performed co‐immunolocalisation of ASY1 and ZYP1. ASY1 is associated with the chromosome axes during prophase I (CITATION), while ZYP1 is a major component of the central element of the SC (CITATION). We observed a total absence of ZYP1 immunolabelling in Atprd1‐1 mutant (FIG-REF) in comparison with wild type (FIG-REF), confirming that no synapsis occurs in Atprd1 mutants. At later stages of meiotic prophase, chromosomes condensed progressively during diakinesis (FIG-REF) until metaphase I, to give rise to 10 univalents instead of five bivalents (FIG-REF). Not a single bivalent was observed in 180 Atprd1‐1 or 230 Atprd1‐2 metaphase I cells. Consequently the 10 univalents segregated randomly to the two anaphase I poles (FIG-REF). In 13.2% of Atprd1‐1 anaphase I (n=129) (12.2% for Atprd1‐2; n=147), univalents appeared submitted to a bipolar tension (FIG-REF). But sister chromatid separation at anaphase I occurred rarely, since only 4% of Atprd1‐1 (n=129) and Atprd1‐2 (n=147) meiocytes at metaphase II showed more than 10 chromosomes (not shown). The second meiotic division then produced unbalanced products (FIG-REF), which generate the previously described polyads (FIG-REF). In conclusions, both Atprd1 mutants show synapsis failure associated with a total absence of chiasmata. Female meiosis was also investigated after chromosome staining by propidium iodide and subsequent observation by confocal microscopy. The defects observed were similar to those seen in male meiosis. Univalents were also observed at the end of the prophase I, leading to random segregation of chromosomes at anaphase I (Supplementary data Sup_3). Absence of chiasmata in Atprd1 mutants can be explained either by an absence of recombination or by bivalent instability. In order to test these hypotheses, we measured recombination frequencies in the progeny of Atprd1‐1. Therefore, lines heterozygous for the Atprd1‐1 mutation (Ws ecotype) were crossed to Columbia (Col‐0). Among the mutant F2 plants, we selected by genotyping the ones that were heterozygous for the two chosen linked markers: nga280 and nga111 on chromosome 1 or nga106 and nga76 on chromosome 5 (CITATION), in order to measure recombination rates within these two intervals. Mapmaker (CITATION) was used to convert data into genetic distances (Table I). The markers were chosen according to the RI map (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk/) as being approximately 30 cM apart, distance confirmed in a previous study (CITATION, Table I). Both distances were dramatically decreased in the Atprd1‐1 background: from 36.8 to 0 cM between nga111 and nga280, and from 23.8 to 1 cM between nga76 and nga106 (Table I). These recombination rates are comparable to the residual level of recombination observed in a strong Atspo11‐1‐2 allele (Table I), suggesting that no recombination was induced in Atprd1 mutant. [[TABLE]] We also analysed the nuclear distribution of the protein DMC1, which is an essential component of the recombination machinery, particularly in meiotic recombination‐mediated DSB repair (CITATION). To follow the meiotic progression of DMC1 foci during meiosis, co‐immunolocalisation was performed with antibodies that recognise the meiotic protein ASY1. Detailed analysis of DMC1 progression in wild‐type Arabidopsis meiotic prophase was described in CITATION. DMC1 foci were not detected during early leptotene, when discontinuous staining of the chromosome axis is observed with the anti‐ASY1 antibody (FIG-REF). DMC1 signal appeared and tended to a maximum at late leptotene/early zygotene (FIG-REF) reaching an average of 240 foci per nucleus (CITATION). The number of DMC1 foci decreased during late zygotene (FIG-REF) to completely disappear at pachytene (FIG-REF). To confirm that the signal was specific to DMC1, a similar dual immunolocalisation was performed in an Atdmc1 mutant (CITATION), where no DMC1 foci was observed at any stage (FIG-REF). Similarly, as expected, no DMC1 foci was seen in the Atspo11‐1‐1 mutant (FIG-REF). Dual immnunolocalisation was also performed in Atprd1‐1 and Atprd1‐2 mutants and we could not detect any DMC1 chromatin‐associated foci (FIG-REF), revealing a very early defect in the recombination process. A modified version of FIG-REF, with enhanced green channel signal, is available as Supplementary data Sup_4, in order to check that no signal above the background (Atdmc1 control) is detected in Atspo11‐1 or Atprd1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] In Arabidopsis two kinds of mutation are known to induce early defects in meiotic recombination: mutations that prevent DSBs such as Atspo11‐1 (CITATION; FIG-REF), and mutations in AtDMC1 that prevent normal DSB repair (FIG-REF; CITATION). In the latter case, DSBs are formed as in wild type, but are probably repaired using the sister chromatids as template, and not the homologous chromosomes, explaining the presence of 10 intact univalents at metaphase I (CITATION; FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] In order to discriminate between a role of AtPRD1 in DSB formation per se or in later stages of DSB repair, we used different mutant backgrounds unable of repairing SPO11‐induced DSBs such as Atrad51 (FIG-REF) or Atscc3 and Atrec8 (Supplementary data Sup_5). In a Atrad51 mutant, meiotic DSBs are formed but abnormally repaired, yielding aberrant meiotic figures at metaphase I and chromosome fragmentation at anaphase I (CITATION; FIG-REF). Chromosome fragmentation is abolished in an Atspo11‐1 background (CITATION; FIG-REF), but not in an Atdmc1 background (FIG-REF), demonstrating that this fragmentation is a consequence of DSB repair defects and that DSBs are formed in an Atdmc1 background. Interestingly, chromosomal fragmentation was also abolished in the Atprd1‐1Atrad51 double mutant, leading to 10 univalents that segregated randomly at anaphase I (FIG-REF). These results show that Atprd1‐1, like Atspo11‐1‐1, can prevent the meiotic recombination repair defects occurring in Atrad51 and therefore demonstrate that AtPRD1 is involved in DSB formation. To confirm the role of AtPRD1 in the initiation of meiotic recombination, the Atprd1‐1 mutation was introduced into the cohesin Atrec8 and Atscc3‐1 mutants that present strong DSB repair defects (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The introduction of Atprd1 or Atspo11‐1 into both cohesin mutants abolished similarly their DSB repair defects (Supplementary data Sup_5). Lastly, we observed that AtPRD1 was not involved in AtSPO11‐1 or AtSPO11‐2 transcription. RT–PCR experiments showed no modification of these gene expressions in any of the Atprd1 mutants (Supplementary data Sup_1C). We have shown that AtPRD1 is involved at the same step of meiotic recombination as AtSPO11‐1. This prompted us to test the interaction between the two proteins using the Clontech Matchmaker yeast two‐hybrid system or derived (see Materials and methods). For this, we cloned the AtPRD1 full length (PRD1FL), AtPRD1 5′ end (encoding aa 1–802), AtPRD1 3′ coding sequence (encoding aa 755–1330) as well as AtSPO11‐1 and AtSPO11‐2 cDNAs into yeast expression vectors in frame with either the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain (pGBKT7 vector) or the GAL4 DNA‐activation domain (pGADT7 vector). Two‐hybrid assays performed with these different forms of AtPRD1 revealed interactions between AtPRD1(1–802) and AtSPO11‐1 when AtPRD1(1–802) is fused to the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain (Table II; FIG-REF). Moreover, we also detected interactions between AtPRD1(1–802) and AtPRD1 full length, as well as between AtPRD1(1–802) and the two truncated parts of AtPRD1 (Table II; FIG-REF), indicating that AtPRD1 can form, at least in yeast, a homodimer. No interaction was observed between AtPRD1(755–1330) and AtSPO11‐1, suggesting that the N‐terminal part of AtPRD1, but not the C‐terminal part of AtPRD1, is essential for interaction with AtSPO11‐1. Lastly, we could not detect any interaction between AtPRD1 (1–802) and AtSPO11‐2 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! The Atprd1‐1 mutant (EEO4 line) was obtained from the Versailles collection of Arabidopsis T‐DNA transformants (Ws accession) (CITATION). Mutant screening was performed as described in CITATION. The Atprd1‐2 mutant, line SALK_ 024703, was obtained from the collection of T‐DNA mutants of the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (Col‐0 accession) (SIGnAL, http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) (CITATION) and provided by NASC (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk/). Atrec8, Atdmc1, Atspo11‐1, Atrad51‐1 and Atscc3‐1 mutants were described in CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, respectively. Isolation of Atprd1‐1: The EEO4 line segregated 3:1 for kanamycin resistance (one of the T‐DNA markers), suggesting the presence of a single T‐DNA insert. After crossing to wild type, linkage between the T‐DNA insert and the meiotic phenotype was checked as described in CITATION. Double mutants and allelism test: See Supplementary data. Recombination rates: These were calculated as described in CITATION. Isolation of plant T‐DNA flanking sequence: The left border (Lb) of the T‐DNA insert of Atprd1‐1 was obtained from https://genoplante.infobiogen.fr/flagdb/info (FST 305H03). A T‐DNA inversed repeat (Lb–Rb–Rb–Lb) insertion occurred between nucleotides 1393 and 1398 of the EF195233 sequence. The insertion site of the T‐DNA in Atprd1‐2 was obtained from http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress (FST SALK_024703.29.25). Complementation of Atprd1‐1: A 7.8 BamHI kb from BAC clone T8H22 (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) was subcloned into pBSK (Fermentas). Then a BamHI‐NcoI fragment, containing the full‐length genomic sequence, was transferred into the binary vector pCAMBIA1381 (http://www.cambia.org/daisy/bios/585.html). Complementation was checked by transforming Atprd1‐1 mutants with the previously described clone. PCR genotyping: See Supplementary data. cDNA and RT–PCR: See Supplementary data. Protein sequence similarity searches were performed at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/), at the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast), at JGI (http://genome.jgi-psf.org/), and at PHYSCObase (http://moss.nibb.ac.jp/), using BLOSUM45 matrix and default parameters. Multiple alignments were performed with Bioedit software (http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/BioEdit/bioedit.html). AtPRD1 homologues: Oriza sativa PRD1 accession number is CAE02100 (OsPRD1), Physcomitrella patens (PpPRD1) from ASYA488561.b1, Homo sapiens (HsMei1) is CAI17882, Mus musculus MmMei1 is XP_487041 and Xenopus tropicalis (XtPRD1) was obtained from JGI (e_gw1.19.261.1). Medicago truncatula (MtPRD1) and Populus trichocarpa (PtPRD1) were derived from sequences AC147484 and LG_II:20125180–20129370 (http://genome.jgi-psf.org/Poptr1_1/Poptr1_1.home.html), respectively, after genescan processing (http://genes.mit.edu/GENSCAN.html). Comparison of early stages of microsporogenesis and the development of PMC was carried out as described in CITATION. Preparation of prophase stage spreads for immunocytology was performed according to CITATION, with the modifications described in CITATION. The ASY1 and ZYP1 polyclonal antibodies (CITATION; CITATION) were used at a working dilution of 1:500. The AtDMC1 antibody was described in CITATION and was used at a working dilution of 1:20. All observations were made using a Leica DM RXA2 microscope; photographs were obtained using a CoolSNAP HQ (Roper) camera driven by Open LAB 4.0.4 software; all images were further processed with Open LAB 4.0.4 or Adobe Photoshop 8.0. Plasmids expressing either AtSPO11‐1, AtSPO11‐2 or AtPRD1 were constructed as described in Supplementary data. They were co‐transformed into yeast strain AH109 (Clontech) following the protocol MATCHMAKER GAL4 Two‐Hybrid System 3 (Clontech). Co‐transformants were selected on SD‐LW (synthetic drop‐out media lacking the aa leucine and tryptophan). Interactions were tested on selective media lacking leucine, tryptophan, adenine and histidine (SD‐LWAH), according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Serial 1:10 dilutions were prepared in water and 5 μl of each dilution was used to yield one spot. Plates were incubated at 30°C for 3 days before scoring and taking photographs. SV40 antigen T (AgT) known to interact with p53 protein but not with Lamin C (LAM) were used as positive and negative controls, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Plasmid inserts in clones growing onto SD‐LWAH were checked by PCR. Expression of AtPRD1, AtSPO11‐1 and AtSPO11‐2 fusion proteins was checked by Western blot. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
