!~ABS~! SOS2, a class 3 sucrose-nonfermenting 1-related kinase, has emerged as an important mediator of salt stress response and stress signaling through its interactions with proteins involved in membrane transport and in regulation of stress responses. We have identified additional SOS2-interacting proteins that suggest a connection between SOS2 and reactive oxygen signaling. SOS2 was found to interact with the H2O2 signaling protein nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2 (NDPK2) and to inhibit its autophosphorylation activity. A sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant was more salt sensitive than a sos2-2 single mutant, suggesting that NDPK2 and H2O2 are involved in salt resistance. However, the double mutant did not hyperaccumulate H2O2 in response to salt stress, suggesting that it is altered signaling rather than H2O2 toxicity alone that is responsible for the increased salt sensitivity of the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant. SOS2 was also found to interact with catalase 2 (CAT2) and CAT3, further connecting SOS2 to H2O2 metabolism and signaling. The interaction of SOS2 with both NDPK2 and CATs reveals a point of cross talk between salt stress response and other signaling factors including H2O2. 
!~RES~! Using a yeast two-hybrid approach, we screened a λ-ACT Arabidopsis seedling cDNA library for proteins that interacted with the bait protein SOS2 (CITATION). One of the interacting clones was found to encode NDPK2. Subsequent analysis demonstrated that, while NDPK2 interacted strongly with SOS2, it did not interact with SOS1, SOS3, or the SOS2-like kinase SnRK3.1 (Fig. 1A). The SOS2-NDPK2 interaction was confirmed in vitro by demonstrating that GST fusion proteins of NDPK2 or the positive control SOS3 both pulled down SOS2 (Fig. 1B) while the unrelated negative control glutamate glyoxylate transferase 1 did not. Further tests found that NDPK2 interacted with SnRK3.15 but not SnRK3.13 or SnRK3.5 (Fig. 1C). These results demonstrated that, while NDPK2 interacts with more than one SnRK3, the interaction was specific to certain members of the SnRK3 family. This is similar to the pattern seen for the interaction of SOS3-like SCaBPs and PP2Cs (ABI1 and ABI2) with SOS2 and other SnRK3s (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] We next used deletion constructs of SOS2 to determine the SOS2 domain required for interaction with NDPK2 (Fig. 2A). The N-terminal kinase domain (SOS2-N) containing the SOS2 catalytic site (CITATION, CITATION) did not interact with NDPK2. In contrast, the C-terminal regulatory domain (SOS2-T1) containing the FISL motif (also referred to as a NAF domain) was sufficient for interaction. Removal of the FISL motif (SOS2-T3) abolished the interaction with NDPK2. The FISL motif by itself showed an interaction, demonstrating that the FISL motif is both required and sufficient for interaction with NDPK2. Thus, NDPK2 interacts with the same domain of SOS2 that is required and sufficient for interaction with SOS3 (CITATION). A full-length, catalytically inactive SOS2, SOS2-K40N (CITATION), also interacted, demonstrating that the phosphorylation activity of SOS2 was not required for interaction with NDPK2.  [[FIGURE]] A similar strategy was used to identify the NDPK2 domain required for interaction with SOS2 (Fig. 2B). The N-terminal region of NDPK2 (NDPK2-N) was not sufficient for interaction with full-length SOS2. However, the C-terminal portion of NDPK2 (NDPK2-T1) was sufficient for interaction. Two additional constructs (NDPK2-T2 and NDPK-T3) containing portions of the C-terminal region were not sufficient for interaction. Thus, the ATP/GTP binding motif, as well as the catalytically active His-197, was within the portion of NDPK2 required for interaction with SOS2. Interaction of NDPK2 with phytochrome A also occurred through the C-terminal portion of NDPK2, although in that case it was NDPK2 amino acids 214 to 221 that were especially important (CITATION).  To determine the effect of SOS2 interaction on NDPK2 function, we analyzed the effect of SOS2 on NDPK2 autophosphorylation. NDPK2 alone had high autophosphorylation activity (Fig. 3A, lane 1). When 0.5 μg of NDPK2 was coincubated with 0.5 μg of SOS2, phosphorylation of NDPK2 was almost completely eliminated (Fig. 3A, lane 3). It should be noted that the molar ratio of SOS2 to NDPK2 in this case was approximately 1 to 2. Decreasing the SOS2/NDPK2 molar ratio to approximately 1 to 4 (0.5 μg SOS2 and 2 μg NDPK2) recovered only a small amount of NDPK2 phosphorylation. This is consistent with previous reports that wild-type NDPK2 exists almost exclusively in a hexameric form (CITATION), and our results imply that SOS2 inhibited autophosphorylation of the NDPK2 hexamer or another multimeric form of NDPK2.  [[FIGURE]] To test whether SOS2 kinase activity was required for inhibition of NDPK2 phosphorylation, NDPK2 was incubated with either SOS2 or the catalytically inactive SOS2-K40N. SOS2-K40N suppressed NDPK2 kinase activity to a similar extent as SOS2 (Fig. 3B). This also confirmed that the low level of NDPK2 phosphorylation observed in the presence of SOS2 was autophosphorylation instead of phosphorylation by SOS2. Together with recent data suggesting that Arabidopsis NDPK2 is autophosphorylated only on the active-site His (CITATION), this suggests that SOS2 regulates NDPK2 kinase activity by inhibition of active-site phosphorylation rather than by regulatory phosphorylation at another site.  To determine whether this inhibitory effect on NDPK2 autophosphorylation was specific to SOS2, we assayed NDPK2 phosphorylation in the presence of the SOS2-related kinase SnRK3.22. SnRK3.22 has functions in pH homeostasis but not salt tolerance (Y. Guo and J.-K. Zhu, unpublished data). SnRK3.22 had no effect on the autophosphorylation of AtNDPK2 (Fig. 3C). This demonstrated that a specific interaction was required to inhibit NDPK2 autophosphorylation. We also note that SnRK3.22 itself had a much higher autophosphorylation activity (Fig. 3C) than SOS2 (Fig. 3B).  We next examined whether knockout of NDPK2 could affect salt tolerance and how this effect would interact with the known salt sensitivity phenotype of the sos2-2 mutant (CITATION). When ndpk2, sos2-2, and sos2-2ndpk2 mutants were plated on media containing 50 mM NaCl, growth of the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant was more inhibited than that of either the sos2-2 or ndpk2 mutant (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] To further quantify the salt sensitivity of these mutants, we also tested the salt sensitivity of wild-type and mutant seedlings that were germinated on control media for 4 days and then transferred to salt-containing media for an additional 6 days. Quantification of seedling fresh weight at the end of the salt treatment again showed an increased salt sensitivity of the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant (Fig. 4B). The ndpk2 mutant grew less than the wild type in the absence of salt stress; however, the effect of transfer to 100 mM NaCl on seedling fresh weight was only slightly more in the ndpk2 mutant than in the wild type (fresh weight of salt-treated wild-type seedlings was 83% that of the control, while for the ndpk2 mutant it was 72%; Fig. 4B). For the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant, however, fresh weight of seedlings on 100 mM NaCl was only 30% that of sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings on control media (Fig. 4B) compared to 59% for the sos2-2 single mutant. This analysis showed that the ndpk2 mutant by itself did not have substantially increased sensitivity to salt but rather was constitutively growth impaired. The sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant, on the other hand, was severely salt sensitive, indicating that NDPK2 has an effect on salt tolerance that is more apparent in the absence of SOS2. It should also be noted that we have previously reported increased ABA response of root growth and proline accumulation in the ndpk2 mutant compared to the wild type (CITATION), which may be caused either by direct action of NDPK2 or indirectly by the increased H2O2 content of the ndpk2 mutant.  The involvement of NDPK2 in phytochrome signaling has been well characterized (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION); thus, we tested whether the response of ndpk2 to salt was altered in etiolated seedlings. Etiolated wild-type and the sos2-2 seedlings germinated and grew on 50 mM NaCl; however, the root growth of the sos2-2 mutant was inhibited compared to that of the wild type (Fig. 4C). sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings developed similarly to sos2-2 seedlings under these conditions. ndpk2 seedlings, however, failed to develop even on this relatively low level of salt (Fig. 4C). Additional experiments found that, although ndpk2 seedling germination was inhibited more than that of the wild type at higher salt concentrations, it was not affected at 50 mM NaCl, where nearly all seeds germinated (Fig. 4D). Thus, these experiments suggested that NDPK2, perhaps because of its interaction with phytochrome, has a strong effect on the salt response of etiolated seedlings.  To determine if altered NDPK2 gene expression could have a role in salt resistance, the gene expression pattern of NDPK2 was examined. We found that NDPK2 expression was not induced by salt, ABA, cold, or dehydration treatment (Fig. 4E) and that expression was not altered in the sos2 or sos3 mutant either under control conditions or after salt stress treatment (Fig. 4F). Consistently with its previously described role in phytochrome A signaling (CITATION, CITATION), NDPK2 is expressed in all shoot tissues including leaf, stem, flower, and silique tissue, but not in roots (Fig. 4F; data not shown).  ndpk2 has previously been shown to have altered sensitivity to H2O2 along with elevated H2O2 levels, and NDPK2 gene expression was induced by exogenous H2O2 (CITATION). H2O2 is also believed to be involved in a number of stress and ABA signaling events (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, we quantified the H2O2 content of entire seedlings under control conditions or after transfer to salt-containing media to determine if altered H2O2 levels could be a factor in the salt sensitivity of the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant. H2O2 was quantified after a short-term salt shock (150 mM NaCl; Fig. 5A) and after longer-term exposure to 50 mM NaCl, a condition where the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant had inhibited growth but did still survive (Fig. 5B; growth conditions for seedlings used in this assay were the same as those used in the experiment shown in Fig. 4A). Under these experimental conditions, the H2O2 content of the salt-stressed sos2-2 mutant was slightly greater than that of the salt-stressed wild type for both salt treatments (Fig. 5A and B). The ndpk2 mutant, in contrast, had constitutively elevated levels of H2O2 even under control conditions, as has been observed previously (CITATION, CITATION), but its H2O2 content was slightly decreased by salt stress (Fig. 5A and B). Interestingly, the sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant had H2O2 levels generally similar to that of ndpk2 (Fig. 5A and B), but salt stress tended to increase its H2O2 content slightly, in contrast to seedlings of other genotypes (Fig. 5A and B). Since no large differences in H2O2 content between ndpk2 and sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings were found, it can be concluded that increased build-up of toxic H2O2 could not explain the greater salt sensitivity of sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings than of ndpk2 seedlings. It should be noted that the 150 mM NaCl experiments (Fig. 5A) were conducted using media containing 0.5% sucrose while the 50 mM NaCl experiments (Fig. 5B) were conducted on media without sucrose (same conditions as used for Fig. 4B). The presence of sucrose in the media led to a higher basal level of H2O2 in seedlings of all genotypes; however, the differences between seedlings with the different genotypes were similar and consistently observed in both conditions.  [[FIGURE]] Both ndpk2 and sos2 mutants have previously been reported to have increased tissue damage when exposed to exogenous H2O2 or other ROS (CITATION, CITATION). We tested whether sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings had greater sensitivity to H2O2 than ndpk2 seedlings and found that again the phenotype of sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings was similar to that of ndpk2 seedlings grown at a range of H2O2 concentrations (data not shown). This suggested that it was not greater susceptibility to H2O2-induced damage that was responsible for the greater salt sensitivity of sos2-2 ndpk2 seedlings but leaves open the possibility that altered H2O2 signaling is a factor.  We also detected two additional SOS2-interacting proteins that support a connection between H2O2 and the SOS pathway. The yeast two-hybrid interaction screen (CITATION) also identified CAT3 as a SOS2-interacting protein (data not shown). In addition, subsequent experiments to detect SOS2-interacting proteins by purifying protein complexes containing NTAPi-SOS2 (CITATION) identified both CAT2 and CAT3 as SOS2-interacting proteins. LC-MS/MS analysis detected a number of peptides from both CAT2 and CAT3 in protein complexes isolated from salt-stressed plants (Fig. 6A and B). Interestingly, when SOS2-containing protein complexes were isolated from unstressed plants, we were not able to detect any CAT3 peptides and found only a relatively low level of a single CAT2 peptide. This suggests that salt stress may be required to promote the interaction of SOS2 with CAT2 and CAT3.  [[FIGURE]] Direct interaction of SOS2 with both CAT2 and CAT3 was confirmed by yeast two-hybrid assays (Fig. 6A and B), with CAT3 having an especially strong interaction with SOS2. Both CAT2 and CAT3 interacted with the catalytically inactive SOS2-K40N mutant, indicating that SOS2 kinase activity was not required for the interaction (Fig. 6A and B). We also tested whether SOS2 could interact with CAT1 in the yeast two-hybrid system and found that it did not (Fig. 6C). In addition we found that neither CAT2 nor CAT3 interacted with NDPK2 in the yeast two-hybrid system (Fig. 6D). These results support the conclusion that SOS2 interacts specifically with CAT2 and CAT3 and provides an additional link between SOS2 and H2O2. 
!~MM~! pAS-SOS2, pAS-SOS2 K40N, pAS-SOS1, pAS-PKS3 (SnRK3.1), pAS-PKS11 (SnRK3.13), pAS-PKS18 (SnRK3.6), pASPKS24 (SnRK3.15), pAS-SOS3, and deletion constructs of SOS2 in pAS were constructed previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Deletion constructs of pACT-NDPK2 were made by PCR amplification using the original pACT-NDPK2 isolated from the SOS2 library screening (CITATION) as a template and insertion into SmaI and EcoRI sites of pACT2. The following primer sets were used: for pACT-NDPK2-1/79, forward, 5′-AATGGTGGGAGCGACTGTAG-3′; reverse, 5′-GCGAATTCAAGAAGCTACAAGGTGAGGAAGGAAG-3′; for pACT-NDPK2-80/231, forward, 5′-AATGGAGGACGTTGAGGAGAC-3′; reverse, 5′-GCGAATTCACTCCCTTAGCCATGTAG-3′; for pACT-NDPK2-80/140, forward, 5′-AATGGAGGACGTTGAGGAGAC-3′; reverse, 5′-GCGAATTCAAAAGAATGATTTAGCACTAAG-3′; and for pACT-NDPK2-141/231, forward, 5′-TCCTAACCTGATTGAGTAC-3′; reverse, 5′-GCGAATTCACTCCCTTAGCCATGTAG-3′.  The pACT-CAT2 construct was obtained by PCR amplification followed by digestion of an EcoRI-CAT2-XhoI fragment generated using sequence-specific primers (forward, 5′-CCGGAATTCGAATGGATCCTTACAAGTATCG-3′; reverse, 5′-CCGCTCGAGTTAGATGCTTGGTCTCACG-3′) and the U19716 cDNA clone obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) as a template. The fragment was then ligated in a digested pACT2 plasmid (Clontech). The CAT3 coding sequence was amplified using Arabidopsis cDNA prepared from total RNA. The amplified fragment was then ligated in a TOPO plasmid (Invitrogen), and the resulting CAT3-TOPO vector was used as a template for PCR to generate a CAT3-SacI fragment using the forward primer 5′-ATGGATCCTTACAAGTATCGTCC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-CCCGAGCTCCTAGATGCTTGGCCTCACGTTC-3′. The fragment was then digested with SacI and inserted into a pACT2 vector digested with NcoI, filled in, and subsequently digested with SacI. For CAT1, the full-length coding region was PCR amplified from clone U24477 (obtained from ABRC) using the following oligonucleotides: 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGGATCCATACAGGGTTCGTCC-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTCAGAAGTTTGGCCTCACGTTAAG-3′. The amplified fragment was cloned into the entry vector pDONR207 and moved to the destination vector pDEST22 using the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen).  Yeast two-hybrid experiments using bait constructs in either pAS2 or pDEST32 and prey constructs in either the pACT2 or pDEST22 vector were performed using Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y190 as previously described (CITATION, CITATION).  RNA extraction and RNA gel blot analysis were performed using previously described techniques (CITATION, CITATION). Twenty micrograms of total RNA was loaded in each lane, and blots were probed for Actin expression as a loading control.  E. coli BL21 codon+ was transformed with pGEX-2TK-NDPK2, pGEX-2TK-SOS2, pGEX-2TK-SOS3, or pGEX-2TK-GGT1 and grown in 2× yeast extract tryptone agar media with ampicillin and chloramphenicol. Cells harvested from 1-liter cultures were resuspended in 50 ml of 1× phosphate-buffered saline containing 1.0 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1.0 μM leupeptin, and 0.3 μM aprotinin, sonicated, and centrifuged (3,000 rpm for 10 min at 4°C). Glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein was recovered by adding the supernatant to glutathione-Sepharose 4B resin. Radiolabeled SOS2 proteins were produced from pET14b-SOS2 using the TNT coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega) for in vitro transcription and translation, with [35S]methionine as the sole source of methionine. In vitro pull-down assays were performed as previously described (CITATION).  Autophosphorylation assays were performed with GST-NDPK2 and GST-SOS2 as previously described (CITATION) with the following modifications. The reaction buffer contained 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM CaCl2, and 1 mM dithiothreitol. After addition of appropriate amounts of each recombinant protein in buffer on ice, 2 μl cold 200 μM ATP and 0.5 μl [γ-32P]ATP (5 μCi) were added and the reaction volume was adjusted to 20 μl with distilled H2O. The reaction mixture was incubated at 30°C for 30 min, and the reaction was stopped by addition of 1 μl of 0.5 M EDTA. After addition of an equal volume of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-containing 2× sample buffer, samples were run on 7.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) gels.  SOS2 was cloned into the NTAPi vector (CITATION) and used to transform sos2-2 as described previously (CITATION). Expression of NTAP-SOS2 complemented the salt sensitivity of the sos2-2 mutant, indicating that the NTAP-SOS2 recombinant protein retained wild-type SOS2 functionality. SOS2-containing protein complexes were purified from either unstressed plants or plants treated with 150 mM NaCl for 24 h using the protocols described in reference CITATION. The purified proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, and protein bands detected by Coomassie blue staining were excised, trypsin digested, and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) as described previously (CITATION).  The ndpk2 transferred DNA line was a generous gift from G. Choi (CITATION) and has an insertion in an intron between codons 128 and 129 of NDPK2. The sos2-2 ndpk2 double mutant was obtained by crossing homozygous sos2-2 and ndpk2 single mutants and subsequent PCR screening.  For seedling analysis, seedlings of each genotype were routinely grown by surface sterilizing seed and plating onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) with 6 mM MES (morpholineethanesulfonic acid; pH 5.7). Seeds were stratified for 4 days at 4°C and then transferred to a growth chamber maintained at 23°C and continuously lighted (70 μmol m−2 s−1). Salt treatments were performed by adding salt to the media that the seeds were germinated on or by transferring 7-day-old seedlings from control media to salt-containing media. Seedling H2O2 content was assayed using an Amplex Red H2O2 assay kit (Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION). 
