!~ABS~! In the Arabidopsis root, the SHORT-ROOT transcription factor moves outward to the ground tissue from its site of transcription in the stele and is required for the specification of the endodermis and the stem cell organizing quiescent center cells. In addition, SHORT-ROOT and the downstream transcription factor SCARECROW control an oriented cell division in ground tissue stem cell daughters. Here, we show that the JACKDAW and MAGPIE genes, which encode members of a plant-specific family of zinc finger proteins, act in a SHR-dependent feed-forward loop to regulate the range of action of SHORT-ROOT and SCARECROW. JACKDAW expression is initiated independent of SHORT-ROOT and regulates the SCARECROW expression domain outside the stele, while MAGPIE expression depends on SHORT-ROOT and SCARECROW. We provide evidence that JACKDAW and MAGPIE regulate tissue boundaries and asymmetric cell division and can control SHORT-ROOT and SCARECROW activity in a transcriptional and protein interaction network. 
!~RES~! The moving transcription factor SHR specifies the QC and the endodermis as a single cell layer and regulates stem cell daughter divisions. To identify new factors involved in this process, we screened ∼15,000 T-DNA insertion lines harboring a promoterless β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene adjacent to the right border of the T-DNA (CITATION) for expression patterns similar to SCR and mutations affecting asymmetric division in the ground tissue. We identified one line, DWK15, with strong GUS staining in the ground tissue and QC (Fig. 1b). DWK15 homozygotes reveal ectopic periclinal divisions in the ground tissue (Fig. 1b and see below). Based on the contrasting phenotype in the ground tissue to scr mutants, we designated this mutation as jackdaw-1 (jkd-1). The flanking sequence of the insertion in jkd-1 identified a T-DNA insertion residing in the promoter region of the At5g03150 gene, 3.5 kb upstream of the predicted coding region (Fig. 1r).  JKD mRNA accumulates in the QC, the ground tissue stem cells, and to a lesser extent in mature cortex and endodermis cells (Fig. 1c). This pattern resembles the GUS staining pattern of the jkd-1 promoter trap line, and 2.8 kb of the JKD promoter fused to CFP essentially recapitulates the expression pattern observed by in situ hybridization (Fig. 1d). JKD transcript first accumulates during the 16- to 32-cell stage of embryogenesis, where it is strongest in the lower tier ground tissue or its precursor cells (Fig. 1e). At the globular stage, JKD transcript expands into the lens-shaped upper derivative of the hypophysis (Fig. 1f), and by heart stage (Fig. 1g) it takes on the QC and ground tissue expression found also in later-stage embryos (Fig. 1h). A translational JKD:GFP fusion driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter localizes to the nucleus of Arabidopsis root cells (Fig. 1m).  The predicted JKD protein is a member of a large family of zinc finger proteins (Fig. 1o), defined by the Maize protein INDETERMINATE (ID1), a regulator of flowering time (CITATION; CITATION). The protein family is defined by the N-terminal ID domain, a highly conserved amino acid sequence consisting of a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) followed by two C2H2 and two C2HC zinc finger motifs (Fig. 1r; CITATION). We additionally identified two C-terminal domains of unknown function conserved in many members of this protein family (Fig. 1p,q). The two middle zinc fingers (Z2 and Z3) of ID1 are required for binding to a specific 11-base-pair (bp) DNA sequence (CITATION), indicating that one function of ID-like proteins is transcriptional regulation.  We searched the AREX data set (CITATION) for ground tissue-expressed JKD homologs and identified At1g03840, which we designated MAGPIE (MGP), a gene independently discovered as a SHR target (CITATION). Like JKD, MGP:GFP protein localizes to the nucleus (Fig. 1n). MGP transcript accumulates in ground tissue and stele cells of embryos and 2-d post-germination (dpg) wild-type roots but, in contrast to JKD, mRNA is absent from the QC (Fig. 1i–l).  The initiation of JKD expression is not affected in scr and shr mutant embryos (Fig. 2a–f). However, post-embryonic QC and ground tissue stem cell expression of JKD is markedly reduced in shr-1 and shr-2 roots (Fig. 2h; data not shown) and less reduced in scr-4 mutants (Fig. 2i; Supplementary Fig. 1g–i).  [[FIGURE]] In contrast to our results with JKD, MGP transcript in a shr-2 mutant background is barely detectable by in situ hybridization at any stage (Supplementary Fig. 1b,e), whereas expression is strongly reduced in scr-4 (Supplementary Fig. 1c,f). RT–PCR analysis confirmed that SHR is required for MGP expression (Supplementary Fig. 2g,i).  Because both JKD and MGP transcription are closely associated with the stem cell niche, we assessed whether their expression is controlled by the PLT1 and PLT2 genes, which redundantly control QC specification and stem cell activity in a SHR- and SCR-independent way (CITATION). In plt1,plt2 double mutants, neither JKD nor MGP transcript accumulation was affected in seedlings (Fig. 2j–l) or embryos (data not shown).  To study the function of the JKD gene, we identified three independent jkd insertion lines and constructed a line with reduced JKD levels by RNA interference (RNAi) referred to as jkd-i (see Materials and Methods). Severely reduced levels of JKD were detected in jkd-4 homozygotes, while no signal was detected in jkd-2 homozygotes (data not shown), indicating that jkd-2 is a null mutant.  jkd mutants display a slight reduction in root length compared with wild-type (Fig. 3a), and ∼15% of jkd-4 and jkd-2 seedlings show an early initiation of lateral roots (data not shown). To determine if root meristem size is also affected in jkd mutants, we measured meristem cell number in wild-type, jkd-4, and jkd-2 seedlings. At both 5 and 12 dpg, the meristem cell number of jkd-4 and jkd-2 roots is reduced compared with that of wild type (Fig. 3b).  [[FIGURE]] The reduction in meristem size and root growth suggested a role for JKD in QC/stem cell specification and/or maintenance. To investigate JKD function in the QC, we examined several independent QC markers in jkd mutants. We were unable to detect the QC-specific promoter trap QC46 (CITATION) in jkd mutants (data not shown), while QC25 expression (CITATION) is normal from germination to 7 dpg but disappears at 8–9 dpg, with a concomitant disorganization of the QC and columella (Fig. 3c,d). Cells at the position of the QC in jkd mutants of that age often neighbor columella cells containing starch granules, indicating the absence of columella stem cells (Fig. 3d). Expression of QC25 and QC46 requires cell-autonomous SCR activity (CITATION). We could not detect SCR expression in the QC of jkd-4 mutants (Fig. 3e,f) and detected no QC expression of pSCR∷YFPER in jkd mutant roots (Fig. 4b). To determine at what developmental time point JKD is required for QC expression of SCR, we analyzed SCR expression in jkd-4 mutant embryos. From early heart stage onward, QC expression of SCR in jkd-4 mutant embryos is absent (Fig. 3g–i), indicating a requirement for JKD in the regulation of SCR expression.  [[FIGURE]] In jkd-4 scr-4 and jkd-i scr-3 double homozygotes, cells in the root meristem differentiate earlier and root lengths are shorter than in scr single mutants (Supplementary Fig. 2a,c), indicating that JKD regulates additional factors required for QC and stem cell maintenance. One candidate is the SHR protein, which regulates SCR-independent factors in the QC (CITATION). To test whether JKD could act independently of SHR, we constructed jkd-4 shr-2 and jkd-i shr-2 double mutants. We observed only a slight reduction in root length compared with shr-2 single mutants (Supplementary Fig. 1b,d; t-test, P = 0.005), indicating that JKD largely but not exclusively acts through SHR in the QC.  Wild-type roots contain ground tissue with an inner endodermis and a single outer cortex layer (Figs. 1a, 4a,c). In contrast, we observed ectopic periclinal divisions in the cortex of all jkd mutants generating ground tissue with three layers (Fig. 4b,d,f). Close to the root tip, patches of ectopic cells revealed that these derive from divisions of cortex cells based on the length of the adjacent cells relative to one another and the position of subsequent divisions (Fig. 4b, h–j). These cell clones join to form a continuous extra layer higher up in the meristem (Supplementary Fig. 2h–k).  To determine whether these ectopic divisions were asymmetric, we analyzed the expression of the SCR promoter fused to ER-targeted YFP or GFP, together referred to as pSCR∷FPER. In wild-type roots, pSCR∷FPER is found in the QC, ground tissue stem cells, and endodermis (Fig. 4a,c). In both jkd4 and jkd-i, small clones of cortex cells (one to three cells) containing periclinal divisions do not show pSCR∷FPER expression. However, endodermal cells adjacent to these cells display a reduced level of pSCR∷FPER expression compared with endodermal cells above and below, and this reduction can be observed prior to the periclinal divisions (Fig. 4d, h–j). The inner cells of larger clones (more than three cells) with ectopic cortical periclinal divisions show expression of pSCR∷FPER (Fig. 4i,j), demonstrating that the ectopic divisions are asymmetric and that the inner cells take on endodermis characteristics. These new cells express also a SCR protein fusion (Fig. 4f; Supplementary Fig. 2h,i). Interestingly, in many cases, former endodermal cells adjacent to large clones no longer express pSCR∷FPER (Fig. 4i,j) and eventually acquire pericycle fate based on their capacity to generate lateral root primordia (Fig. 4k). These data, together with the reduction of pSCR∷FPER in cells adjacent to smaller clones, demonstrate a requirement for JKD in the restriction of SCR transcription in the ground tissue region.  We did not observe the ectopic periclinal divisions found in cortex cells of jkd mutants in jkd-4 scr-4 and jkd-4 shr-2 double mutants (Fig. 4p–s), indicating that these divisions require SHR and SCR and that JKD acts in the ground tissue by modifying the activity of SHR and SCR.  It is of note that the jkd mutant showed increased cortex and endodermis cell numbers within layers (Fig. 4l-m; Supplementary Table 1), revealing its requirement for restricting cell number in the ground tissue. This increase in numbers is suppressed in jkd-4 shr-2 double mutants but not in jkd-4 scr-4 mutants (Fig. 4p–s), suggesting that JKD controls cell numbers in the circumference of the ground tissue through SHR but independent of SCR.  To assess whether MGP acts in a similar process as JKD, we analyzed MGP RNAi (mgp-i) lines in wild-type and in jkd-4 background. While mgp-i lines reveal no phenotype on their own (Fig. 4n; Supplementary Fig. 2e), combination with jkd-4 homozygotes largely complements the jkd-4 ground tissue phenotype and restores pSCR∷SCR:GFP expression (Fig. 4o; Supplementary Fig. 2g,l,m).  To determine how JKD could affect SHR activity in the QC, we analyzed pSHR∷GFP:SHR expression in the QC of jkd-4 and jkd-i roots. In contrast to the nuclear-localized GFP in wild-type roots (Fig. 5a,d), we observed cytoplasmic GFP:SHR in the majority of jkd-4 and jkd-i mutant QC cells (Fig. 5b,e; data not shown). CITATION demonstrated a role for SCR in sequestering SHR within the endodermis. To determine whether loss of SCR function in the QC could affect GFP:SHR localization, we examined pSHR∷GFP:SHR expression in scr-4 mutants. Despite the low expression of pSHR∷GFP:SHR in scr-4 roots, GFP:SHR mostly localizes to both nucleus and cytoplasm in cells at the position of the QC (Fig. 5c,f); however, occasionally we did observe nuclear localization of SHR (Fig. 5c, inset), as in jkd-4 (Fig. 5b, inset). Together, these results suggest that JKD controls the nuclear localization of SHR in the QC mostly through its effect on the maintenance of SCR expression.  [[FIGURE]] Normal levels of SCR transcript in the endodermis require functional SHR (CITATION). To determine if the alterations in SCR transcription in jkd mutants were due to changes in SHR expression, we analyzed pSHR∷GFP:SHR expression in jkd-4 and jkd-i roots. In wild type, GFP:SHR localizes to both cytoplasm and nuclei in stele cells, its site of transcription, and exclusively in the nuclei of endodermis cells (Fig. 5g; CITATION). In large clones of cortex cells that had divided periclinally, we observed GFP:SHR in the inner cells (Fig. 5h), while smaller clones showed no GFP: SHR (Fig. 5i). All former endodermis cells still express nuclear-localized GFP:SHR (Fig. 5 h,i) at a stage when SCR promoter activity is already reduced (cf. Fig. 4h,i). The expansion of pSHR∷GFP:SHR expression in jkd mutants is completely suppressed in the mgpi background (Supplementary Fig. 2n,o). These data show that the expression of new SCR in jkd associates with an expanded SHR domain, but lack of maintenance of SCR expression in the inner ground tissue layer is not caused by down-regulation of SHR.  SHR and SCR proteins interact with each other, and a SHR–SCR complex binds promoters of SCR and MGP (CITATION). To assess whether JKD and MGP could influence SHR and SCR activity at least in part through protein interaction in the stem cell area where they are jointly expressed, we performed in planta Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) assays using JKD, MGP, SCR, and SHR cDNAs. We observed no fluorescence following coexpression of free nonfused YFP subfragments and negative control proteins (Supplementary Table 2). Consistent with reported interactions, fluorescence accumulated in nuclei of cells expressing SCR and SHR, and ATH1 and STM (CITATION), but notably also in most of the combinations with JKD and MGP, suggesting multiple interactions (Fig. 6; Supplementary Table 2). These interactions were confirmed using the yeast two-hybrid system. We did not observe growth when fusion proteins (BD or AD) were tested with control empty vectors and when JKD and SCR were tested with a negative control protein. Next, we confirmed that SHR interacted strongly with SCR (Fig. 6c,d; Supplementary Fig. 2; see also CITATION). Autoactivation domains in JKD and MGP were identified by comparing full-length cDNAs with fragments and eliminated from the analysis by selecting fragments with low autoactivation potential for subsequent experiments (Supplementary Figs. 2, 4).  [[FIGURE]] Next, we showed that all interactions involving JKD and MGP required their first zinc finger domain (located between 107and 215 for JKD and 95 and 202 for MGP, designated as JKD1 and MGP1) (Fig. 6b). In pairwise combinations we found that SHR interacted with JKD1 and MGP1 (Fig. 6; Supplementary Fig. 2); JKD1 could interact with itself and with both SCR and MGP1. We detected weak interaction between SCR and MGP1 but no self-interaction for MGP and SCR. Taken together, our data strongly indicate that JKD and MGP can be part of nuclear SHR–SCR complexes. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Wassilewskija (WS) and Columbia (Col) were used. Origins and ecotypes of mutant and transgenic lines are as follows: jkd-1 (WS), INRA T-DNA lines (CITATION); jkd-3, jkd-4, and jkd-2 (Col), the SALK t-DNA collection (http://signal.salk.edu); scr-3 (Col) and scr-4 (WS) (CITATION); shr-1 (WS) (CITATION); QC25 and QC46 (WS) (CITATION); shr-2 and pSHR∷GFP:SHR (Col) (CITATION); pSCR∷YFP (Col) (CITATION). Growth conditions of seedlings and embryos are described in CITATION and CITATION, respectively.  For determination of the insertion site of jkd-1, the sequence flanking the left border (LB) of the T-DNA was amplified by Vectorette-PCR (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion sites in jkd-3, jkd-4, and jkd-2 are described in the Salk Institute Web site (http://signal.salk.edu) and were confirmed by PCR-based genotyping: jkd-1, −3450 bp from the predicted translation start point; jkd-3, 1940 bp from the predicted translation start point; jkd-4, 1381 bp from the predicted translation start point; and jkd-2, −206 bp from the predicted translation start point.  The pGreenII vector set (CITATION; http://www.pgreen.ac.uk) was used for plant transformation. For the 35S∷JKD:GFP and 35S∷MGP:GFP translational fusion, xGFP was amplified by PCR from pGIIxGFP using the primers xGFP-L (5′-GCGAGCT CACTAGTAAAGGAGAAGAACTTTTCA-3′) and xGFP-R (5′-CGGAATTCTCATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATGT-3′) and was cloned into a cassette containing the 35S promoter. The coding sequence of JKD was amplified by PCR using the primers JKD-HA-0C-L (5′-GCGGATCCATGCAGATGATTCCAGGA GATCCAT-3′) and JKD-HA-1N-R (5′-GCGAATTCTCAAC CCAATGGAGCAAACC-3′) from root cDNA and fused in-frame before xGFP. 35S∷JKD:GFP was transferred into pGreen carrying the methotrexate resistance cassette (CITATION). For pJKD:CFP, a 3.5-kb fragment of the JKD promoter was PCR-amplified using the primers K15prom-dn-L (5′-GGC GCGCTGTTCGATATCACATTTTGAC-3′) and K15prom-dn-R-mk2 (5′-GCGCGTGCTTGACTCTTTGGTTATGCC-3′) and placed before ER-CFP and the NOS terminator and transferred into pGreenII carrying the nos-basta resistance cassette. For the JKD-i and MGP-i constructs, 500-bp fragments of the JKD and MGP coding sequence were amplified with the primers K15ZFRNAi-L (5′-ATTCTAGACTCGAGCATCATCATCCCT CCCTGAT-3′) and K15ZFRNAi-R (5′-ATATCGATGGTAC CAACCTTGCGAGTTCTTGAGG-3′) for JKD and MGPi FW primer (5′-CTCGAGGGATCCGACGCTTTAGCAGAAGAAA CCGC-3′) and MGPi REV primer (5′-GGTACCATCGATATT GGTCGGTAGTAATCGTCGTC-3′) for MGP, and cloned into the pKANNIBAL vector (CITATION). JKD-i and MGP-i were transferred into pGreenII carrying the norflurazon resistance or methotrexate resistance cassette, respectively (CITATION).  For DIC optics, seedlings and embryos were cleared and mounted according to CITATION. Starch granules and β-glucuronidase activity were visualized as described (CITATION). Root length was measured as described (CITATION). The number of root meristematic cells was obtained by counting cortex cells showing no signs of rapid elongation. For confocal microscopy, roots were mounted in 10 μM propidium iodide. In situ hybridization on whole-mount tissues was performed manually as described (CITATION). Root tissue sections were performed as described (CITATION).  Yeast two-hybrid interactions were studied using the ProQuest Two Hybrid System (Invitrogen Life Technologies). The coding sequences of JKD, MGP, SCR, and SHR were amplified and fused to both the pDEST32 BD and pDEST22 AD vectors. Primers used to amplify full-length cDNAs and deletion fragments are described in Supplementary Table 3.  Autoactivation of yeast containing bait was tested using selective medium −His −leu and supplied with 2, 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, and 100 mM 3AT (3-Amino-1,2,4-Triazol, Fluka).  The bait and prey constructs were transformed into the yeast strains Pj694α and Pj694a, respectively. Mating and selection for interactions were performed as described in CITATION. β-Gal activity was measured using CPRG as substrate according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Clontech).  For “Split-YFP” analysis (CITATION), the coding sequence of Enhanced Yellow Fluorescence Protein (EYFP, Clontech Laboratories) was fragmented into an N-terminal domain of 154 amino acids (YFP/N) and a C-terminal domain of 84 amino acids (YFP/C). Two sets of vectors were generated: one for C-terminal fusions of the two YFP fragments to proteins of interest (pARC235 and pARC236), and one for N-terminal fusions (pARC233 and pARC234). The YFP/N- and YFP/C-encoding fragments were generated by PCR and cloned as XbaI– BamHI fragments into pGD120, which drives expression from the CaMV35S promoter and is suitable for transient assays (CITATION). An Ochre stop codon was introduced after codon 154 of YFP/N for the pARC233 C-terminal fusion construct. For the pARC236 N-terminal fusion construct, the stop codon of YFP/C was left out. The four pGD120-derived vectors were made Gateway compatible by introducing the RFB Gateway cassette (Invitrogen) into the BamHI-digested and -blunted vector (N-terminal fusion constructs) or XbaI-digested and -blunted vectors (C-terminal fusion constructs). This resulted in pARC233–pARC236. JKD, MGP, SCR, and SHR cDNAs were inserted to generate N-terminal YFP fusions (pARC233 and pARC234) and C-terminal fusions (pARC235 and pARC236). YFP fluorescence after bombardment of onion epidermal cells was recorded using a Leica SP2 CLSM. 
