!~ABS~! Cellular DNA, RNA and their precursor nucleotides are at high risk of being oxidized by reactive oxygen species. An oxidized base, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2′-(deoxy)guanosine, can pair with both adenine and cytosine, and thus would cause both replicational and translational errors. Previously, we have reported that an Arabidopsis Nudix hydrolase, AtNUDX1, acts to hydrolyze an oxidized deoxyribonucleotide, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2′-deoxyguanosine 5′-triphosphate (8-oxo-dGTP). Here we showed that 8-oxo-dGTP pyrophosphohydrolase activity is not exhibited by any other Arabidopsis Nudix hydrolase. AtNUDX1 acted on an oxidized ribonucleotide, 8-oxo-GTP, with high affinity (Km 28.1 μM). In a transcriptional mutational analysis using the lacZ reporter gene, the phenotypic suppression of the lacZ amber mutation in a mutT-deficient Escherichia coli strain caused by the misincorporation of 8-oxo-GTP into the mRNA was significantly diminished by expression of AtNUDX1. These findings suggest that AtNUDX1 prevents transcriptional errors in vivo. A confocal microscopic analysis using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein demonstrated that AtNUDX1 is distributed in the cytosol, where the main pool of nucleotides in the cells exists. The level of 8-oxo-guanosine in genomic DNA was significantly increased in knockout nudx1 plants compared with wild-type plants under normal and oxidative stress (3 μM paraquat) conditions. The results obtained here indicate that AtNUDX1 functions in cellular defense against oxidative DNA and RNA damage through the sanitization of their precursor pools in the cytosol in Arabidopsis cells.
!~RES~! Previously, we have identified 24 Arabidopsis Nudix hydrolases that are classified based on their predicted subcellular localization (TargetP: http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) as either cytosolic (AtNUDX1–11), mitochondrial (AtNUDX12–18) or chloroplastic (AtNUDX19–24) (Ogawa et al. CITATION). At that time, we analyzed the substrate specificity of recombinant forms of all the cytosolic AtNUDXs except AtNUDX8, because of the formation of inclusion bodies, and showed that only AtNUDX1 (At1g68760) acts on 8-oxo-dGTP (Ogawa et al. CITATION). Recently, a BLAST search revealed an additional three types of the Nudix hydrolase gene that are predicted to be located in the cytosol (AtNUDX25, At1g30110) and chloroplast (AtNUDX26, At3g10620; and AtNUDX27, At5g19470). At first, therefore, we tried to identify 8-oxo-dGTP pyrophosphohydrolase activity among cytosolic (AtNUDX8 and 25), mitochondrial (AtNUDX12–18) or chloroplastic (AtNUDX19–24, 26 and 27) Arabidopsis Nudix hydrolases. Using the vector pCold TF expressing a trigger factor chaperone as a soluble tag, the AtNUDX8 recombinant protein was produced with high efficiency in the soluble fraction and then was purified using a HiTrap chelating HP column. Therefore, we could analyze the substrate specificity of the cytosolic recombinant AtNUDX8. However, the recombinant protein showed no hydrolytic activity toward various nucleoside diphosphate derivatives, such as 8-oxo-dGTP, dGTP, dCTP, dATP, dTTP, ADP-ribose, NADH, FAD, CoA, diadenosine polyphosphate (ApnA), UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose (data not shown). The recombinant AtNUDX25 protein generated using the pET16b expression vector showed hydrolytic activity toward diadenosine tetraphosphate (26.4 ± 2.1 nmol min−1 mg protein−1), diadenosine pentaphosphate (16.7 ± 0.6 nmol min−1 mg protein−1), NADH (15.9 ± 0.3 nmol min−1 mg protein−1) and CoA (11.6 ± 0.5 nmol min−1 mg protein−1). Next, we prepared recombinant proteins from mitochondrial (AtNUDX12–18) and chloroplastic (AtNUDX19–24, 26 and 27) genes and analyzed their activities toward 8-oxo-dGTP, dGTP, dCTP, dATP and dTTP; however, we could not detect any pyrophosphohydrolase activity by these proteins. Furthermore, no change in frequency of spontaneous mutations in the E. coli mutT-deficient strain was observed with the expression of mitochondrial and chloroplastic AtNUDXs (T. Ogawa et al. unpublished data). Judging from both analyses, no 8-oxo-dGTP pyrophosphohydrolase was present among these AtNUDXs. It has been shown that E. coli MutT and hMTH1 catalyze the hydrolysis of not only 8-oxo-dGTP but also 8-oxo-GTP to the monophosphate (Taddei et al. CITATION, Ishibashi et al. CITATION). Therefore, we analyzed the 8-oxo-GTP pyrophosphohydrolase activity of AtNUDX1. The recombinant AtNUDX1 protein was active in converting 8-oxo-GTP to 8-oxo-GMP (Table 1). The Km value (28.1 μM) for 8-oxo-GTP was >10-fold lower than that of hMTH1 (Km 290 μM). Therefore, the recombinant AtNUDX1 protein was a highly efficient catalyst (kcat/Km 1.9 × 104 s−1 M−1), although its Vmax value (1.7 μmol min−1 mg protein−1) was lower than that of hMTH1 (Vmax 12 μmol min−1 mg protein−1).  Next, we examined the ability of AtNUDX1 to eliminate the mismatch-evoking oxidized nucleotides from the RNA precursor pool using two E. coli lacZ strains (CC101 and CC101T) (Ishibashi et al. CITATION). CC101T cells, which carry a mutT mutation, produced blue colonies on plates containing X-gal through partial phenotypic suppression of the lacZ amber mutation caused by the misincorporation of 8-oxo-GTP into mRNA (Fig. 1A, B). On the other hand, when the hMTH1 or AtNUDX1 cDNA was introduced into the CC101T cells, the formation of blue colonies was mostly suppressed to the same degree as for the CC101 cells. More quantitative data were obtained by measuring the actual β-galactosidase activities in cultures of CC101T cells harboring plasmids with the AtNUDX1 cDNA. The β-galactosidase activity in the CC101T cells increased approximately 40,000-fold compared with that in the CC101 cells (Fig. 1C). The increase in activity in the CC101T cells was significantly suppressed by the expression of the hMTH1 or AtNUDX1 cDNA. These results clearly show that AtNUDX1, as well as hMTH1, can compensate for a lack of MutT in E. coli cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To clarify the distribution of the defense systems protecting against oxidative DNA damage in plant cells, the subcellular localization of AtNUDX1was determined. The AtNUDX1 cDNA was fused in-frame with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at the C-terminus and then introduced into Arabidopsis plants. The fluorescence of the GFP fusion proteins in protoplasts prepared from each transgenic Arabidopsis plant was monitored using confocal microscopy (Fig. 2). Nuclei and chloroplasts were identified by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining and autofluorescence, respectively. GFP fluorescence spread throughout the cytosol in the protoplasts from GFP-expressing plants as an experimental control (Fig. 2a–d). Similarly, the AtNUDX1–GFP fluorescence was detected only in the cytosol (Fig. 2e–h).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A wide range of environmental stresses, such as high light, drought and salinity, cause enhanced production of ROS (Shigeoka et al. CITATION). Therefore, a quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis was carried out to examine the changes in the expression of AtNUDX1 under various stressful conditions (Fig. 3). However, the expression of AtNUDX1 was not significantly changed by treatment with paraquat (PQ), salinity, high light and drought.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We obtained a T-DNA knockout line (KO-nudx1) for AtNUDX1 from the SIGnAL project. The T-DNA insert was located in the second exon of the gene (Fig. 4A). A semi-quantitative RT–PCR-based analysis was performed to investigate the expression of AtNUDX1 mRNA in the KO-nudx1 plants. The quantity of template was verified to be the same in each reaction by amplifying a constitutively expressed Actin 2 mRNA. All of the amplified fragments were cloned and their sequences confirmed. When two primer sets, AtNUDX1-F/AtNUDX1-R1 and AtNUDX1-F/AtNUDX1-R2, were used for the PCR analysis, amplified fragments with lengths of 380 and 453 bp, respectively, derived from the AtNUDX1 mRNA were detected in the wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). On the other hand, no amplified fragment was detected in the KO-nudx1 plants using the primer set AtNUDX1-F/AtNUDX1-R2 (Fig. 4B). Notably, an amplified fragment (454 bp) derived from the unspliced AtNUDX1 mRNA containing the intron sequence was detected in the KO-nudx1 plants using the primer set AtNUDX1-F/AtNUDX1-R1 (Fig. 4B). These results indicated that insertion of the T-DNA into the second exon of AtNUDX1 in the KO-nudx1 plants resulted in an inhibition of pre-mRNA splicing. Therefore, it is clear that no active AtNUDX1 protein exists in the KO-nudx1 plants, since the remaining intron sequence in the AtNUDX1 mRNA causes a frameshift mutation in the Nudix motif, a conserved active site of Nudix hydrolases.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition to the sanitization of nucleotide pools by a MutT-type Nudix hydrolase, such as AtNUDX1, there are base excision repair pathways for removing oxidized bases from DNA in living organisms (Michaels and Miller CITATION). The pathways in Arabidopsis are comprised of a bacterial MutM-type 8-oxo-G DNA glycosylase/lyase (At1g52500, designated AtMMH) (Ohtsubo et al. CITATION), a mammalian OGG-type 8-oxo-G DNA glycosylases/lyase (At1g21710, designated AtOGG1) (Dany and Tissier CITATION) and possibly an adenine DNA glycosylase/lyase-like protein (At4g12740, designated AtMYH). By the quantitative RT–PCR analysis, no significant differences in the respective levels of AtMYH, AtOGG1 and AtMMH were observed between the wild-type and KO-nudx1 plants (see Supplementary Fig. S1), indicating that the absence of AtNUDX1 protein has no effect on their expression. The KO-nudx1 plants did not exhibit any discernible differences in growth phenotype and chlorophyll content from the wild-type plants under normal conditions (Fig. 4C, D). To investigate the effect of a lack of AtNUDX1 on oxidative stress tolerance, the wild-type and KO-nudx1 plants were treated with 3 μM PQ. The amount of chlorophyll in the wild-type plants decreased during the exposure to stress. No significant difference was observed in chlorophyll content between the wild-type and KO-nudx1 plants under the stressful conditions (Fig. 4C, D). Next, we examined the amount of 8-oxo-G in the genomic DNA of the wild-type and KO-nudx1 plants under normal conditions and oxidative stress by conducting an HPLC-electrochemical detector (ECD)-based analysis (Fig. 5). The level of 8-oxo-G in the KO-nudx1 plants was approximately 2.5-fold higher than that in the wild-type plants under normal conditions. Furthermore, the 8-oxo-G level in KO-nudx1 plants was significantly increased under the oxidative stress caused by 3 μM PQ.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The E. coli strain, CC101, and the mutT-deficient strain, CC101T, were gifts from Professor Hisaji Maki (Nara Institute of Science and Technology). The plasmids pTrc100 and pTrc100/hMTH1 (Yakushiji et al. CITATION) for the complementary assay and 8-oxo-GTP were kindly provided by Professor Yusaku Nakabeppu (Kyushu University) and Dr. Hiroshi Hayakawa (Kyusyu University), respectively. The vectors for the GATEWAY cloning system, pDONR201 and pGWB5, were obtained from Dr. Tsuyoshi Nakagawa (Shimane University). All other chemicals were of analytical grade and used without further purification. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was grown under long-day conditions (16 h light, 25°C/8 h dark, 22°C) on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium under a light intensity of 100 μmol m−2 s−1. Construction of pET16b/AtNUDX1 and -8, and production of the recombinant AtNUDX1 proteins fused with a hexahistidine tag, were carried out as described previously (Ogawa et al. CITATION). pET16b/AtNUDX8 was digested with NdeI, and the AtNUDX8 (At5g47240) cDNA was re-cloned into the vector pCold TF (TAKARA BIO INC., Kyoto, Japan). Total RNA was isolated from the leaves of 4-week-old wild-type plants (1.0 g fresh weight) as previously described (Yoshimura et al. CITATION). First-strand cDNA was synthesized using ReverTra Ace (reverse transcriptase; Toyobo, Osaka, Japan) with an oligo(dT) primer. The reaction was performed in a 20 μl mixture containing the buffer supplied by the manufacturer (Toyobo), 5 μg of total RNA, 0.25 μM oligo(dT) primer, 1 mM dNTPs and 100 U of the reverse transcriptase. The coding sequence of AtNUDX25 (At1g30110) was amplified by PCR from the first-strand cDNA synthesized from total RNA of Arabidopsis, using primers AtNUDX25-Sac I-F (5′-GAGCTCATGGAGAATCTACC-3′) and AtNUDX25-Pst I-R (5′-CTGCAGGGTTCTTGGTATCT-3′). The sequence was identical to that of the cDNA of AtNUDX25 except for the replacement of native nucleotides to introduce optional restriction sites (bold sequences). The amplified DNA fragment was ligated into pSTBlue T-vectors (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). DNA sequencing was performed using the dideoxy chain terminator method with an automatic DNA sequencer (ABI PRISM™ 310, Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). The resulting construct was digested with SacI/PstI and ligated into the expression vector, pET16b (Novagen), to produce histidine-tagged proteins. The hexahistidine-tagged recombinant AtNUDX proteins were produced using E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) pLysS cells (Ogawa et al. CITATION) and purified from the extracts using a HiTrap chelating HP column (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Protein contents were determined following the method of Bradford (CITATION). The hydrolytic activity of the AtNUDX protein toward various types of nucleoside diphosphate derivatives was assayed according to a method described previously (Ogawa et al. CITATION). A 60 μl aliquot of the reaction mixture, containing 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), 5 mM MgCl2, 25 μM substrate and 0.2–1.0 μg of recombinant protein, was incubated at 37°C for 10 min. The reaction was terminated by adding 10 μl of 100 mM EDTA. The mixture was then analyzed by HPLC using a COSMOSIL C18 column (4.6 × 250 mm, Nacalai tesque, Kyoto, Japan) at a flow rate of 0.6 ml min−1 for the mobile phase buffer, which contained 73 mM KH2PO4, 5 mM tetrabutylammonium dihydrogen phosphate and 20% methanol. The substrates and their reaction products were detected according to their UV absorbance, as follows: 8-oxo-(d)GTP, 293 nm; dGTP, 252 nm; dCTP, 271 nm; dTTP, 264 nm; ADP-ribose, NADH, FAD, CoA, ApnA (n = 3–5), UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose, 260 nm. The E. coli CC101 (wild-type) and CC101T (mutT-deficient) strains carry an amber mutation in codon 461 of the lacZ gene, where the A:T to C:G transversion mutation is reversed phenotypically to produce the β-galactosidase (Taddei et al. CITATION, Ishibashi et al. CITATION). The E. coli CC101 cells yield white colonies, since they are unable to produce an active β-galactosidase when cultured in the presence of X-gal. On the other hand, the CC101T cells, which carry a mutT mutation in addition to the lacZ amber mutation, produce blue colonies, probably due to the partial phenotypic suppression of the lacZ mutation caused by the misincorporation of 8-oxo-G into mRNA. The pTrc100 empty vector, the plasmid pTrc100/AtNUDX1, which was constructed as described previously (Ogawa et al. CITATION), and pTrc100/hMTH1 were introduced into the E. coli CC101 and CC101T strains. The transformants obtained were grown on LB medium containing 20 μg ml−1 ampicillin and 0.5 mg ml−1 X-gal. Quantitative assays for β-galactosidase activity were performed by measuring the absorbance at 420 nm, which represents the hydrolysis of o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactoside to o-nitrophenol as a substrate, in crude extracts prepared from transformants grown to a mid-exponential phase in liquid LB medium containing 20 μg ml−1 ampicillin. Three independent clones from each transformant were used, and at least four experiments were performed with each clone. The vectors for the generation of the GFP fusion proteins were constructed using GATEWAY cloning technology (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). AtNUDX1 cDNA (Ogawa et al. CITATION) was cloned into the donor vector, pDONR201, and then re-cloned into the destination vector, pGWB5, in which the AtNUDX1 protein fused with GFP at its C-terminus was expressed under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The specific primers with attB1 and attB2 sequences were as follows: attB1-AtNUDX1cGFP (5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTTAATGTCGACAGGAGAAG-3′) and attB2-AtNUDX1cGFP (5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTAGTCTCCACCACCATGAG-3′). PCR and in vitro BP and LR recombination reactions were carried out according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58), which was transformed with each construct by electroporation, was used to infect Arabidopsis via vacuum infiltration (Bechtold and Pelletier CITATION). T1 seedlings were selected on basic MS medium in Petri dishes containing 3% sucrose and 20 mg l−1 of hygromycin for 2 weeks, and transferred to soil. T2 seeds were harvested and used for the experiments. Leaf protoplasts were prepared from 2-week-old transgenic plants by the method of Abel and Theologis (CITATION). The nucleus was stained with 1 μg ml−1 DAPI. The fluorescence was observed under a Radiance 2100 confocal fluorescence microscope (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Pictures were processed using LaserSharp2000 software (Carl Zeiss, Inc.). Two-week-old Arabidopsis plants were subjected to various types of stress, treatment with PQ (an agent producing O2−), and salinity, high light and drought. PQ treatment was imposed by transferring the plants to MS medium containing the agent at 3 μM and growing them under normal light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) conditions. High-light irradiation was accomplished by exposure to illumination at 1,600 μmol m−2 s−1. Salinity stress was imposed by transferring the plants to MS medium containing 500 mM NaCl. Drought stress was imposed by harvesting whole plants, washing them gently and then subjecting them to dehydration on a paper towel. The shoots were collected from approximately 30 plants per stress treatment, flash-frozen in liquid N2, and stored at −80°C for the experiments described as follows. Total RNA (50 μg) extracted from shoots of Arabidopsis, as described above, was purified with an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA), treated with DNase I (TAKARA BIO INC.) to eliminate any DNA contamination, and converted into first-strand cDNA using ReverTra Ace (Toyobo) with the oligo(dT) primer. Primer pairs for the quantitative PCR designed using Primer express™ software (Applied Biosystems) were as follows; AtNUDX1-RT-F (5′-TTGAAGAATGTGCAGCGAGAGA-3′), AtNUDX1-RT-R (5′-GGCGTTGGTGCTTCTTTGAA-3′), Actin2-RT-F (5′-GGCAAGTCATCACGATTGG-3′) and Actin2-RT-R (5′-CAGCTTCCATTCCCACAAAC-3′). The quantitative PCR was performed with an Applied Biosystems 7300 Real Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems) using the SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TAKARA BIO INC.). Actin2 mRNA was used as an internal standard in all experiments. The knockout Arabidopsis line (SALK_025320: KO-nudx1) containing a T-DNA insert in the AtNUDX1 gene was obtained through the SIGnAL project (http://signal.salk.edu/tabout.html). The KO-nudx1 plants were self-fertilized to obtain a purely homozygous line (T5 generation). Semi-quantitative RT–PCR analysis of the AtNUDX1 transcript was performed using specific primers for AtNUDX1 in a reaction involving 23 cycles of 95°C for 30 s, 60°C for 30 s and 72°C for 60 s, followed by 72°C for 10 min. Aliquots of the products were analyzed on a 2% agarose gel. Actin2 was used to normalize the transcript levels in each sample. The specific primers for the AtNUDX1 and Actin2 mRNAs were as follows: AtNUDX1-F (5′-ATAATGTCGACAGGAGAAGC-3′), AtNUDX1-R1 (5′-AAAGGCTTTGGTAGATTCTC-3′), AtNUDX1-R2 (5′-CATCTATTAGTCTCCACCAC-3′), AtOGG1-RT-F (5′-TTCGGAGAGCTAGCGAGACATC-3′), AtOGG1-RT-R (5′-AAGCACTCGAGCGGATCCT-3′), AtMMH-RT-F (5′-CGCCGACGACAACAAAGTG-3′), AtMMH-RT-R (5′-CCGAGGATTGAGGTCTGGAA-3′), AtMYH-RT-F (5′-TGTATCAAAGCCAAGTTGCTCTTC-3′), AtMYH-RT-R (5′-TCCTCGGAAAGTGAAAATGCA-3′), Actin2-F (5′-GAGATCCACATCTGCTGG-3′) and Actin2-R (5′-GCTGAGAGATTCAGGTGCCC-3′). The amplified fragments were cloned into pSTBlue T-vector (Novagen) and their sequences confirmed. Measurement of 8-oxo-G in genomic DNA was carried out according to Minowa et al. (CITATION) with some modifications. Genomic DNA was extracted from ∼1.0 g of plant tissue (Yoshimura et al. CITATION). A 250 μg aliquot of DNA was suspended in 165 μl of 10 mM sodium acetate solution and digested with 4 U of nuclease P1 (Sigma-Aldrich Japan, Tokyo, Japan) and 2 U of alkaline phosphatase at 37°C for 2 h. The resulting deoxynucleoside mixture was filtered with Ultrafree-MC centrifugal filter units (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA). The mixture was lyophilized, resuspended in 500 μl of water, and analyzed with an HPLC-ECD system: column, COSMOSIL C18 column (4.6 × 250 mm, Nacalai tesque); eluent, 50 mM NaH2PO4 buffer (pH 6.0), containing 5 mM tetrabutylammonium dihydrogen phosphate, 10 μM EDTA and 4% methanol; flow rate, 1 ml min−1. The amounts of deoxyguanosine (dG) and 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine (8-oxo-dG) in the DNA samples were measured with UV absorbance at 290 nm and an ECD. Supplementary material mentioned in the article is available to online subscribers at the journal website www.pcp.oxfordjournals.org.
