!~ABS~! Successful fertilization in plants requires the properly coordinated development of female reproductive tissues, including stigma, style, septum and transmitting tract. We have identified three closely related genes, HECATE1 (HEC1), HECATE2 (HEC2) and HECATE3 (HEC3), the expression domains of which encompass these regions of the Arabidopsis gynoecium. The HEC genes encode putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors with overlapping functionality. Depending on the amount of HEC function missing, plants exhibit varying degrees of infertility, defects in septum, transmitting tract and stigma development and impaired pollen tube growth. The observed phenotypes are similar to those reported for mutations in the SPATULA (SPT) gene, which also encodes a bHLH transcription factor required for development of the same female tissues. We show that the HEC proteins can dimerize with SPT in a yeast two-hybrid system, indicating that the HEC genes work in concert with SPT to coordinately regulate development of the female reproductive tract. Furthermore, when the HEC genes are ectopically expressed from the CaMV 35S promoter, some of the resulting transgenic plants show pin-shaped inflorescences, suggesting that the HEC genes are probably involved in auxin-mediated control of gynoecium patterning.
!~RES~! Previous work identified the bHLH transcription factor INDEHISCENT (IND) as a key regulator of valve margin development in the Arabidopsis fruit (CITATION). Reasoning that bHLH proteins related to IND might also function in plant development, we performed a BLAST search to find those genes most closely related to IND. HEC1 (At5g67060; BHLH088), HEC2 (At3g50330; BHLH037) and HEC3 (At5g09750; BHLH043) were thus identified. All three HEC genes were subsequently found to function in gynoecium development, but to have roles distinct from that of IND.   [[FIGURE]] Like IND, each of the HECs is composed of a single small exon (Fig. 1C). HEC1, HEC2 and HEC3 encode proteins of 242, 232 and 225 amino acids, respectively. The IND and HEC gene products share extensive protein sequence similarity in the bHLH domain, as well as in a 30 amino acid N-terminal extension of this region (Fig. 1D). Similarity in this 30 amino acid region leads to both IND and HECs being grouped as a subfamily of bHLH proteins (CITATION). HEC1 and HEC2 are the most closely related and share 61% amino acid identity across the length of the proteins and 100% identity within the bHLH domain. Previous phylogenetic analysis of the Arabidopsis bHLH transcription factor family placed HEC1 and HEC2 in regions that arose from a putative interchromosomal duplication event (CITATION). Protein alignment of the HECs with IND and more-distantly related bHLH factors reveals that the HECs, like IND, lack a conserved glutamate at position 13 of the basic domain (Fig. 1D, asterisk). This glutamate has been shown to be important for DNA binding (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, if the HECs regulate gene transcription through DNA binding, they are likely to do so through the use of other residues. To investigate whether the HEC genes function in gynoecium development, we analyzed their expression patterns using both RNA in situ hybridization and β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene constructs. In contrast to the valve margin expression pattern described for IND (CITATION), all three HEC genes were found to be expressed in the stigma and septum during stages 8 to 12 of flower development. RNA in situ analysis showed that for all three HECs, expression was first observed during stage 8 of gynoecium development, in the medial ridges of the septum, which have grown together and fused at this time (Fig. 2A-C, large arrowheads), and in the apical tips (Fig. 2G, lower arrow), where the stigma will arise. By stage 10 to early stage 12, hybridization signal was localized to the transmitting tract (Fig. 2D-H, large arrowheads) and developing stigmas (Fig. 2G,H, arrows). Patchy signal was also apparent in the ovules for HEC1 and HEC2 (Fig. 2D-E, small double arrowheads) and in the ovule funiculus for HEC3 (Fig. 2F, arrow). By late stage 12, just prior to fertilization, HEC3 expression was still evident in the transmitting tract (Fig. 2I,J, large arrowheads) and was strong in the ovule funiculus (small arrowheads), but was no longer visible in the stigma (arrow). HEC1 and HEC2 expression could no longer be detected by late stage 12 (data not shown). GUS reporter results confirmed the septum and stigma expression of HEC1 and HEC2 (see Fig. S1A-D in the supplementary material) and also indicated that HEC3 funiculus expression continued even after pollination (see Fig. S1E in the supplementary material, arrowheads). Some HEC2p::GUS lines also expressed GUS in pollen and the nectaries (data not shown), and a number of the HEC3p::GUS lines showed expression in vasculature (see Fig. S1E in the supplementary material, arrow). GUS analysis did not confirm HEC3 transmitting tract and stigma expression, HEC1 and HEC2 ovule expression, or HEC1 anther expression, presumably because the GUS constructs lack essential DNA regulatory elements necessary for them to represent the entire pattern of expression indicated by RNA in situ hybridization. The close sequence similarity of the HEC genes and their overlapping expression patterns suggest that they might have partially redundant functions in stigma and septum development. To determine the functions of the HEC genes, we identified T-DNA insertion lines in HEC1 and HEC3 from available mutant collections (Fig. 1C) and confirmed these lines as RNA-nulls by RT-PCR (see Fig. S2A,B in the supplementary material). An absence of HEC3 RNA in the hec3 mutant was further demonstrated by in situ hybridization (data not shown). No satisfactory mutants in HEC2 were available at the time of this work.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] hec1 mutant plants showed no alteration in fruit phenotype (Fig. 3A,B; Table 1). hec3 mutant plants had smaller fruit and a modest reduction in fertility compared with wild type (59% wild-type seed set) (Fig. 3A,C; Table 1). Reciprocal crosses revealed the fertility defect to be female-specific (data not shown). The hec1 hec3 double mutant had a sizable reduction in overall fertility (17% wild-type seed set), along with significant variations in individual fruit size and seed yield (Fig. 3A,D; Table 1). Seed distribution was biased toward the apical half of the carpel, but substantial fertilization also occurred in the basal half (Fig. 3D). The fact that the double mutant had a more severe phenotype than either single mutant demonstrates that both genes are required for wild-type levels of fertility.    Loss of HEC function leads to a reduction in fertility  We were able to rescue the fertility defect of hec1 hec3 plants to approximately wild-type levels by transforming them with a HEC3 rescue construct composed of 3 kb of the HEC3 promoter driving the HEC3 coding region (Fig. 3E). This result would be anticipated as the hec1 mutation alone produces no obvious change in the fruit, and it confirms that the observed mutant phenotypes are due to the hec1 and hec3 mutations. Stigma and transmitting tract provide the apical-to-basal tissue path for pollen tube growth in Arabidopsis. Since the HEC genes are expressed in these tissues, it seemed likely that the loss of fertility in hec mutants would correlate with aberrant or reduced pollen tube growth. To visualize pollen tubes within the ovary, we used an Aniline Blue staining technique (CITATION) 24 hours after hand-pollinating emasculated carpels (Materials and methods). Aniline Blue stains callose, a component of pollen tubes, allowing them to be visualized by fluorescence microscopy.   [[FIGURE]] Wild-type and hec1 gynoecia showed an abundance of pollen tubes throughout the length of the transmitting tract (Fig. 3G,H). Fertilization events, evident as lateral deviations in tube growth, likewise occurred throughout the entire length of the ovary. hec3 carpels showed significantly fewer pollen tubes and pollination events, particularly in the basal half of the gynoecium (Fig. 3I). This difference was even more pronounced for the hec1 hec3 double mutant (Fig. 3J). A similar pattern of reduced pollen tube growth was found when carpels were examined only 6 to 7 hours after pollination, when wild-type pollen tubes had not yet reached the bottom of the ovary (data not shown). Both stigma and style showed obvious developmental abnormalities in hec mutants. Compared with wild type (Fig. 4K), stigmas were smaller and more variable in size in hec1 hec3 mutants (Fig. 4L). Although not evident in Fig. 4, there was also a slight tendency for the style to be somewhat longer in the double mutant. To visualize the transmitting tract in hec mutants, post-fertilization flowers were thin-sectioned and stained with Alcian Blue, a dye that detects acidic polysaccharides characteristic of the transmitting tract ECM. Wild type showed a characteristically large, intensely staining transmitting tract (Fig. 4A,H, arrowheads). The transmitting tract of hec1 was indistinguishable from that of wild type in size, staining intensity and cytology (Fig. 4B). The hec3 transmitting tract was smaller in size than wild type in both the septum and the style (Fig. 4C,I), but had the same general appearance as wild type. The hec1 hec3 double mutant, however, had dramatically reduced Alcian Blue staining in both the style and the septum compared with wild type (Fig. 4D,E,J). In analyzing pre-fertilization stages of development, we found that the transmitting tract of the hec1 hec3 double mutant had no delay in onset of ECM production, but produced less ECM than wild type (see Fig. S3 in the supplementary material). Taken together, these data demonstrate that HEC1 and HEC3 are redundantly required for transmitting tract differentiation. Given the sequence similarity and overlapping expression domains among the HEC genes, and considering the synergistic nature of hec1 and hec3 single mutations, it seemed likely that all three HEC genes would share functionally related roles in Arabidopsis. To confirm this hypothesis and to substantiate a role for HEC2 in gynoecium development, we used RNAi to create the equivalent of a hec1 hec2 hec3 triple mutant. To make the RNAi construct we used 180 bp from the 5′ coding region of HEC2 (Fig. 1C). This region contains some areas of close sequence similarity to HEC1, but little similarity to HEC3. The construct was transformed into both the wild type and the hec1 hec3 double mutant. RT-PCR analysis of several independent lines of HEC2-RNAi in the wild type revealed a strong to moderate reduction in the level of both HEC1 and HEC2 RNA and only a slight effect on HEC3 RNA (see Fig. S2C,D in the supplementary material). These HEC2-RNAi lines, equivalent to hec1 hec2 double mutants, showed little or no effect on fertility (data not shown). However, when the HEC2-RNAi construct was transformed into the hec1 hec3 double mutant, 8 of 32 lines exhibited complete sterility (Fig. 3F). Such lines had dramatic defects in apical gynoecium development, with a complete absence of stigmatic tissue and, in many cases, an incomplete fusion of the apical region of the style (Fig. 4M,N). The style of HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 plants was exceptionally long. We found severe effects on septum and transmitting tract development in HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 gynoecia (Fig. 4F,G). The septum was either unfused (Fig. 4G, arrow) or had only a few cells at its thinnest point (Fig. 4F, arrow). Alcian Blue staining of the transmitting tract was never observed. Since this phenotype is reminiscent of that reported for mutants of SPT (see below), we specifically confirmed that there was no reduction in SPT RNA in the HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 lines (see Fig. S2C in the supplementary material). We also confirmed that the fertility defect of HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 lines was female-specific by crossing HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 pollen onto wild-type flowers. These crosses resulted in fruit of normal length (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] Individual HEC2-RNAi hec1 hec3 lines are formally equivalent to hec1 hec2 hec3 triple mutants. The severe developmental defects seen in these lines indicate that the HEC genes are functionally redundant and play a fundamental role in stigma and transmitting tract development and in the post-genital fusion of the septum and the apical gynoecium. Owing to the requirement of the three HEC genes for female fertility, we named them after the Greek goddess of fertility Hecate, often portrayed as three women. The well-studied developmental regulator SPATULA (SPT) encodes a bHLH protein that is considerably larger than any of the HEC proteins (373 amino acids versus approximately 230 amino acids) and is poorly conserved with the HEC proteins (Fig. 1D). Nevertheless, SPT is expressed in both septum and stigma during stages 6 to 11 (CITATION), and genetic studies have shown it to be required for septum, transmitting tract and stigma formation (CITATION). We therefore investigated possible interactions between SPT and the HECs. Since SPT expression is detectable at earlier stages of gynoecium development than is HEC expression (CITATION), the possibility existed that SPT might be a transcriptional regulator of the HECs. We examined this by analyzing the expression of HEC1, HEC2 and HEC3 in early carpels of plants carrying the strong spt-2 allele (Fig. 5A-C). All three HECs continued to be expressed in this mutant background, indicating that a functional SPT protein is not required for HEC gene expression. A more likely possibility was that the SPT and HEC proteins might interact cooperatively to regulate development. bHLH proteins are known to both homodimerize and heterodimerize, and dimer formation is essential for transcriptional regulation (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore used a yeast two-hybrid system to investigate protein-protein interactions among the HEC1, HEC2, HEC3 and SPT gene products. The HEC proteins do not form either homodimers or heterodimers in yeast, but each is capable of heterodimerizing with SPT (Fig. 5G,H). If the HEC proteins function as transcriptional regulators, the data strongly suggest that SPT is likely to be a required partner. Since both SPT and the HEC genes are required for aspects of interior carpel development, specifically septum and transmitting tract development, it is relevant that mutants in the ARF factor ETT display a dramatic phenotype in which transmitting tract tissue develops on the outside of the gynoecium. This externalization of transmitting tract derives at least in part from the unrestricted expression of SPT in carpel valves (CITATION). We wanted to determine whether the HEC genes might also be under ETT control and play a similar role in the formation of external ectopic transmitting tract in ett mutants. HEC expression was examined in ett-7 gynoecia and found to be equivalent to that seen for SPT. The HECs were ectopically expressed on the outside of ett-7 gynoecia (Fig. 5D-F). ETT therefore negatively regulates HEC expression in the abaxial gynoecium in a similar manner as it does SPT. To further examine the effects of ectopic HEC activity, we generated overexpression lines in which HEC gene expression was driven from the constitutive 35S promoter. Overexpression of each HEC gene resulted in flowers that produced ectopic carpelloid tissue, most often stigmatic tissue (Fig. 6B,C,D, arrowheads; Fig. 6B,C, insets). The data indicate that the HEC genes are able to activate carpel identity factors when ectopically expressed. The overexpression of HEC1 and HEC3 also occasionally led to the production of gynoecia with defects in apical-basal polarity reminiscent of a weak ett phenotype. Carpels had enlarged stigmas, reduced ovaries and elongated gynophores (Fig. 6G-I). The HEC genes thus could be involved in the ETT-mediated auxin-signaling pathway needed for apical-basal development. This possibility is further supported by even more extreme phenotypes seen among overexpressing lines, such as those shown in Fig. 6K,L. Here, pin-shaped inflorescences or carpelloid stalks were observed, resembling those that result from loss of the auxin efflux carrier PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) or from treatment with the chemical NPA, an auxin transport inhibitor (CITATION). These dramatic phenotypes suggest that in these 35S::HEC1 and 35S::HEC3 lines there was an alteration of auxin levels, auxin transport and/or auxin perception.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The hec1 allele corresponds to the GABI-KAT line 297B10 (CITATION). It was genotyped using the gene-specific primers oKG156 (5′-ACCACAACAACACTTACCCTTTTC-3′) and oKG157 (5′-GTTCCACACCCTTTCATAACCACT-3′) to amplify a wild-type fragment and the T-DNA-specific primer (5′-CCCATTTGGACGTGAATGTAGACAC-3′; sequence provided by GABI-KAT) in combination with oKG156. The hec3 allele corresponds to the SALK_005294 line (CITATION). It was genotyped using primers C-X1 (5′-GTGCTATTTCGTGAAGAGACAAGAGA-3′) and C-X4 (5′-TCCTAACAAACCCTTATTTCGTATCCA-3′) to amplify a wild-type fragment and C-X4 in combination with the T-DNA-specific primer JMLB2 (5′-TTGGGTGATGGTTCACGTAGTGGG-3′). The ett-7 allele was kindly provided by Patricia Zambryski (University of California, Berkeley, CA). The spt-2 allele was kindly provided by David Smyth (CITATION). HEC2-RNAi lines were generated by amplifying a 180 bp fragment, using primers oKG93 (5′-GGGATCCTCTAATGAACATGATGATGC-3′) and oKG110 (5′-TTATCGATTAACCGGGTTGGTGGTGAGGCATG-3′) for the 5′-3′ orientation, and primers oKG94 (5′-CCTCGAGTCTAATGAACATGATGATGC-3′) and oKG91 (5′-GGGTACCCCGGGTTGGTGGTGAGGCATG-3′) for the 3′-5′ orientation. Both fragments were cloned into the pHANNIBAL vector (CITATION) and the entire cassette was subsequently cloned into pART27 (CITATION) to generate KG154-1. Phenotypes were analyzed in the T1 generation. The HEC3 rescue construct was generated by amplifying a genomic fragment that included 2979 bp upstream of the translational start site and the coding region, using primers oKG121 (5′-CCGTCGACCTTCCCATGCCTTGTAATCAC-3′) and oKG256 (5′-TGTCGACCTAGATTAATTCTCCTACTC-3′). A SalI fragment was cloned into pMX202 to generate KG153-7. KG153-7 was transformed into the hec1 hec3 double mutant and phenotypes were analyzed in the T1 and T2 generations. In situ analysis was performed to confirm that the promoter was sufficient to drive both septum and funiculus expression. The HEC1p::HEC1:GUS construct was generated by amplifying a genomic fragment that included 2972 bp upstream of the translational start and the coding region up to, but not including, the stop codon. The region was amplified using primers oKG117 (5′-CCGTCGACCACCCAACTACCAACTAAATG-3′) and oKG118 (5′-CCGTCGACTCTAAGAATCTGTGCATTGCC-3′). A SalI fragment was cloned into pBI101.1 to generate KG92-12. The HEC2p::GUS construct was generated by amplifying a genomic fragment that included 3058 bp upstream of the translational start codon, using primers oKG119 (5′-GGGTCGACGAATACAGAGCACTTGTTCAAG-3′) and oKG187 (5′-CAGATCTCCTCCTTTTTTGTGGAATTTATAG-3′). A SalI/BglII fragment was cloned into pBI101.1 to generate KG128-6. The HEC3p::GUS construct was generated by amplifying a genomic fragment that included 2979 bp upstream of the translational start codon, using primers oKG121 (5′-CCGTCGACCTTCCCATGCCTTGTAATCAC-3′) and oKG188 (5′-GGTCGACAATTTTTGTTTGTTTGGTTCG-3′). A SalI fragment was cloned into pBI101.1 to generate KG141-5. To generate the overexpression lines, coding sequences were PCR amplified using Col genomic DNA as a template and cloned into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector. HEC1 was amplified using primers oKG83 (5′-GGTCGACATCTTTCTCTATGGATTCTGAC-3′) and oKG84 (5′-CGGATCCCATCATCATCTAAGAATCTGTG-3′). A SalI/BamHI fragment was cut out of pCR2.1 and cloned into pBIN-JIT (CITATION) to create KG72-4. HEC2 was amplified using primers oKG89 (5′-CGTCGACAAAAAGGAGGATGGATAACTC-3′) and oKG90 (5′-CCCCGGGCATCATCATCTAAGAATCTGTG-3′). A SalI/SmaI fragment was cloned into pBIN-JIT to create pKG68-4. HEC3 was amplified using primers oKG95 (5′-CGTCGACCCAAACAAACAAAAATTATGA-3′) and oKG96 (5′-CGGATCCCTTGTCTAGATTAATTCTCC-3′). A SalI/BamHI fragment was cloned into pBIN-JIT to create pKG80-22. In the pBIN-JIT vector, the coding sequences were placed under the control of a double repeat of the 35S promoter. Overexpression phenotypes were analyzed in the T1 and T2 generations. The integrity of all constructs was confirmed by sequencing. RNA was isolated using the Qiagen RNeasy Plant Mini Kit. The reverse transcriptase reaction was performed using the Promega Reverse Transcription System. HEC1 was amplified with primers oKG83 and oKG84. HEC2 was amplified with primers oKG89 and oKG90. HEC3 was amplified with primers oKG95 and oKG96. A β-TUBULIN control amplification was performed using primers (5′-GGACAAGCTGGGATCCAGG-3′) and N-1137 (5′-CGTCTCCACCTTCAGCACC-3′). The annealing temperature was 58°C. The PCR amplification in Fig. S2A,B (see Fig. S2A,B in the supplementary material) was carried out using 2 μl of reverse transcriptase reaction, the HEC amplification was performed with 35 cycles, and TUBULIN was amplified using 25 cycles. In the PCR amplification shown in Fig. S2C (see Fig. S2C in the supplementary material), HEC2 was amplified with 30 cycles using 1 μl of reverse transcriptase reaction, SPT was amplified with 28 cycles using 1 μl of reverse transcriptase reaction, and TUB was amplified with 25 cycles using 0.5 μl of reverse transcriptase reaction. In situ hybridization was performed as described by Dinneny et al. (CITATION). An antisense HEC1 probe was transcribed with T7 polymerase (Promega) using a full-length coding sequence in pCR2.1 (KG62-1) that had been linearized with HindIII. An antisense HEC2 probe was transcribed with T7 polymerase using a full-length coding sequence in pBluescript (KG100-1) linearized with SpeI. An antisense HEC3 probe was transcribed with T7 polymerase using a full-length coding sequence in pCR2.1 (KG76-2) linearized with SpeI. Staining for β-glucuronidase expression was as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. Wild-type (Columbia ecotype) and transgenic fruit and flowers were fixed and analyzed by scanning electron microscopy as previously described (CITATION). Aniline Blue staining for pollen tubes was performed after emasculating flowers just prior to pollination (late stage 12), growing them for another 18-24 hours to allow transmitting tract and ovule development to be completed, and then hand-pollinating them maximally. After allowing another 24 hours for pollen growth, they were fixed, cleared, stained with Aniline Blue (CITATION) and examined under a fluorescence microscope. Staining with Alcian Blue 8GX was used to visualize the transmitting tract. Alcian Blue stains the acidic mucopolysaccharide component of the transmitting tract ECM (CITATION). Paraplast-embedded flowers and inflorescences were sectioned at 4 μm and fixed to slides. Slides were then de-waxed with Histoclear (National Diagnostics), rehydrated through a gradual ethanol series, counterstained for 5 minutes with 0.1% Nuclear Fast Red, rinsed, stained for 5 minutes with Alcian Blue pH 3.1, rinsed again, dried briefly at 37°C, then mounted directly in Permount (Fischer Scientific). Directed yeast two-hybrid interactions were conducted as described (CITATION). Full-length HEC1 was cloned into both the bait vector pBI-880 to make SP7-2 and into the prey vector pBI-771 to make SP18. Full-length HEC2 was cloned into both the bait vector pBI-880 to make SP8-4 and into the prey vector pBI-771 to make SP19. Full-length HEC3 was cloned into the prey vector pBI-771 to make SP20. The full-length HEC3 in the bait vector was able to activate the reporters on its own. Hence, a partial HEC3 fragment, which included amino acids 92-224, was cloned into pBI-880 to make SP14-1. The SPT prey vector had previously been isolated from a cDNA library in a yeast two-hybrid screen with IND. The partial clone contains amino acids 47-373.
