!~ABS~! The salt overly sensitive (SOS) pathway is critical for plant salt stress tolerance and has a key role in regulating ion transport under salt stress. To further investigate salt tolerance factors regulated by the SOS pathway, we expressed an N-terminal fusion of the improved tandem affinity purification tag to SOS2 (NTAP-SOS2) in sos2-2 mutant plants. Expression of NTAP-SOS2 rescued the salt tolerance defect of sos2-2 plants, indicating that the fusion protein was functional in vivo. Tandem affinity purification of NTAP-SOS2-containing protein complexes and subsequent liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis indicated that subunits A, B, C, E, and G of the peripheral cytoplasmic domain of the vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) were present in a SOS2-containing protein complex. Parallel purification of samples from control and salt-stressed NTAP-SOS2/sos2-2 plants demonstrated that each of these V-ATPase subunits was more abundant in NTAP-SOS2 complexes isolated from salt-stressed plants, suggesting that the interaction may be enhanced by salt stress. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that SOS2 interacted directly with V-ATPase regulatory subunits B1 and B2. The importance of the SOS2 interaction with the V-ATPase was shown at the cellular level by reduced H+ transport activity of tonoplast vesicles isolated from sos2-2 cells relative to vesicles from wild-type cells. In addition, seedlings of the det3 mutant, which has reduced V-ATPase activity, were found to be severely salt sensitive. Our results suggest that regulation of V-ATPase activity is an additional key function of SOS2 in coordinating changes in ion transport during salt stress and in promoting salt tolerance. 
!~RES~! To identify proteins interacting with the protein kinase SOS2, we used the TAP method (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The coding sequence of SOS2 was fused to that of the C terminus of the TAP tag sequence in the binary plasmid pNTAPi (CITATION). This plasmid (encoding NTAP-SOS2) was used for transformation of sos2-2 mutant plants, and, among the different lines generated, a line that expressed TAP-tagged SOS2 and rescued the salt sensitivity phenotype of the sos2-2 mutant (Fig. 1A and B) was used for purification of SOS2-containing complexes.  [[FIGURE]] TAP was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION) using 20-day-old NTAP-SOS2 (sos2-2) plants that had been exposed to 150 mM NaCl for 24 h. Salt-treated plants were used to maximize the chances of identifying interactions that are important in the function of SOS2 in salt stress tolerance. The proteins were then separated by SDS-PAGE, and the individual bands were isolated and digested in situ with trypsin for analysis using LC-MS/MS. Using this strategy, we identified several subunits constituting the peripheral stalk of the V-ATPase (Table 1). We also confirmed the presence of both NTAP-SOS2 and VHA-B in the purified protein complexes by performing Western blot analysis (Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] After our initial identification of proteins from the V-ATPase peripheral domain as SOS2-interacting proteins, we performed additional experiments to determine whether the interaction is affected by salt stress and whether the interaction may be affected by altered abundance of either SOS2 or VHA-B in salt-stressed tissue. NTAP-SOS2 complexes were purified in parallel from untreated plants and from plants exposed to salt stress (150 mM NaCl) for 24 h. To estimate the relative levels of various proteins in the purified complexes from control versus salt-stressed plants, the arbitrary total ion current counts of all the peptides representing the SOS2-interacting proteins including VHA-B were summed and expressed relative to the trypsin enzyme used for peptide digestion (CITATION).  Extracts from control and salt-treated plants had similar total protein levels both before and after TAP (Fig. 3A and C). Likewise, the amounts of NTAP-SOS2 recovered from the two samples were not significantly different in either the protein extract before purification (input) or after TAP (Fig. 3B). This was expected since the expression of NTAP-SOS2 was driven by the constitutive 35S promoter. Western blot analysis also showed similar total amounts of VHA-B in the extracts from control and salt-treated plants before TAP (Fig. 3B), indicating that the total protein abundance of VHA-B was not altered by the salt treatment imposed. However, LC-MS/MS analysis of the purified complexes showed that greater amounts of several V-ATPase peripheral subunits copurified with NTAP-SOS2 in samples from salt-treated plants than in control samples (Table 2). In particular, in the NTAP-SOS2 complexes purified from salt-stressed plants we observed a 4.1-fold increase in the relative amount of VHA-C, a 3.6-fold increase in VHA-A, and a 2.5-fold increase in VHA-B compared to the control. The consistently higher levels of several V-ATPase peripheral subunits associated with SOS2 in salt-stressed plants suggested that interaction of SOS2 with the V-ATPase complex is enhanced by salt stress.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] While successful in identifying a salt-inducible interaction between SOS2 and the V-ATPase complex as a whole, the TAP-tagging experiments could not establish which of the V-ATPase peripheral subunits interacted directly with SOS2 and which were simply copurified as part of the V-ATPase complex. Our previous yeast two-hybrid screen using SOS2 as the bait protein identified not only ABI2 (CITATION) but also VHA-B and several other clones as putative interactors with SOS2 (data not shown). VHA-B, together with VHA-A, controls the binding of ATP, whose hydrolysis is then catalyzed by VHA-A alone while VHA-B, it has been suggested, has a role in regulating the activity of the V-ATPase complex (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To confirm the interaction between VHA-B proteins and SOS2, the entire open reading frames of VHA-B1 and VHA-B2 were fused with the GAL4 activation domain in the prey plasmid pACT2 and cotransformed with the bait plasmid pAS-SOS2, pAS-SOS2 K40N, or pAS-SOS1 (CITATION) into the yeast strain Y190. SOS2 interacted with both of the VHA-B subunits, as indicated by the β-galactosidase activity produced when pAS-SOS2 or pAS-SOS2K40N was cotransformed with pACT-VHA-B1 or pACT-VHA-B2 (Fig. 4A and B). The positive interaction observed using the catalytically inactive SOS2-K40N mutant, indicated that the interaction did not depend on SOS2 kinase activity (Fig. 4B); however, the interaction with SOS2-K40N did appear somewhat weaker than the interaction with wild-type SOS2. As expected, a SOS1 C-terminal fragment, used as negative control, showed no interaction with VHA-B1 or -B2 (SOS1 is a plasma membrane protein and so would not be expected to interact with the V-ATPase complex on the tonoplast).  [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the interaction of SOS2 with VHA-B1 and -B2 constructs with the N-terminal 140 amino acids deleted. This was because previous yeast two-hybrid screening using SOS2 as the bait protein had identified VHA-B clones with this N-terminal portion deleted (data not shown). Also, the N-terminal 140 amino acids of the VHA-B subunits contain a domain called the ATP-synt_ab_N domain (amino acids 1 to 90) and part of the ATP binding domain (amino acids 90 to 380). The ATP-synt_ab_N domain forms a closed beta-barrel with Greek-key topology. Although the Greek-key motifs do not have an assigned function, computational analysis suggests that they mediate protein-protein interactions (CITATION). Interestingly, SOS2 could still interact with VHA-B1 or -B2 Δ140 constructs (Fig. 4). These results indicate that the N-terminal 140 amino acids of VHA-B did not participate in SOS2 binding.  Although a number of studies report an increase in V-ATPase activity and/or amounts in response to salt stress, to our knowledge, the effect of reduced V-ATPase activity on salt tolerance has not been directly tested. To address the physiological importance of V-ATPase activity in salt tolerance, we tested the salt response of the det3 mutant. The det3 mutant was isolated by screening for mutants that had a light-grown phenotype, most notably a reduction in hypocotyl length, even when grown in the absence of light (CITATION). The det3 mutant was subsequently shown to have a twofold reduction in levels of VHA-C and a conditional lack of V-ATPase peripheral sector assembly and V-ATPase activity, which were more pronounced in etiolated seedlings (CITATION).  det3 seedlings grown on control media and then transferred to salt-containing media exhibited a severe salt sensitivity phenotype (Fig. 5A; no sucrose or other sugars were added to the media in these experiments). Root elongation of the det3 mutant was inhibited by more than 40% on 50 mM NaCl, a concentration that caused no root growth inhibition in the wild type. On 100 mM NaCl, root elongation was almost completely inhibited and over the course of 7 days the det3 seedlings became completely bleached (Fig. 5A). To determine whether this increased sensitivity was also true in dark-grown seedlings, where the reduction in V-ATPase activity should be the greatest, wild-type and det3 seedlings were sown directly on control or 100 mM NaCl media and kept either in darkness or standard growth conditions. In these experiments, 0.5% sucrose was added to all the treatments to support seedling growth in the dark. Dark-grown det3 seedlings on control media exhibited the characteristic reduction in hypocotyl length that was used to isolate the mutation (Fig. 5B). det3 seedlings on 100 mM NaCl in the dark again had greatly reduced growth. Light-grown det3 seedlings on sucrose-containing media were also more salt sensitive, although the addition of sucrose seemed to partially alleviate the salt sensitivity of the det3 mutant. Overall, the severe salt sensitivity of the det3 mutant is consistent with a key role of V-ATPase activity in salt tolerance.  [[FIGURE]] The interaction of SOS2 with VHA-B1 and -B2 along with the salt sensitivity of the det3 mutant suggested that one mechanism by which SOS2 promotes salt tolerance may be by stimulation of V-ATPase activity. To test this possibility, we measured the H+ transport activity of vacuolar membrane vesicles purified from wild-type, sos2-2, and sos3-1 vesicles. In wild-type vesicles the H+ transport activity of the V-ATPase increased with increased ATP concentration (Fig. 6A) and kinetic analyses indicated a Km for ATP of 0.75 mM and Vmax of 220 units (Table 3). In contrast, the H+ transport activity of tonoplast vesicles isolated from sos2-2 cells was reduced significantly relative to that of the wild-type vesicles. At 3 mM ATP, sos2-2 mutant transport activity was reduced by 30.7% (Fig. 6A) and kinetic analysis showed a reduced Vmax and a higher Km for ATP (Table 3). The results suggest that SOS2 is required for maximal activity of the V-ATPase.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] In previous studies addition of mutant forms of SOS2 with constitutively active phosphorylation activity could directly stimulate ion transport activity of either plasma membrane Na+ transport mediated by SOS1 or tonoplast Na+/H+ exchange mediated by NHX transporters (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Thus, we attempted a similar experiment by adding constitutively active SOS2 (T/DSOS2DF) which has a T168D mutation combined with deletion of the FISL domain (CITATION). Interestingly, we observed that T/DSOS2DF could not stimulate the V-ATPase activity of wild-type tonoplast vesicles (Fig. 6B; Table 3), nor could it rescue the reduced V-ATPase activity of vesicles from sos2-2 cells (Fig. 6C; Table 3) in the in vitro assay. Together, these V-ATPase assays indicated that SOS2 may be required for V-ATPase activation although SOS2 kinase activity itself cannot stimulate V-ATPase activity. It is possible that other factors not present in these in vitro assays, such as additional proteins, the FISL domain of SOS2, or posttranslational modification of SOS2, may be required to stimulate V-ATPase activity in vivo.  Another interesting result was that the V-ATPase activity of vesicles obtained from the sos3-1 mutant was significantly enhanced relative to that of the wild type (activity of sos3-1 vesicles was 77% higher than that of the wild type in the presence of 3 mM ATP; Fig. 6A and Table 3). While the exact mechanism behind this increased activity is not known, one possibility is that SOS3 competes with the V-ATPase for SOS2 binding, possibly through the FISL domain of SOS2. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in all experiments. The sos2-2 and sos3-1 mutants have been previously described (CITATION). The det3 mutant was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Soil-grown plants were kept under continuous light (70 mmol m−2 s−1) at 23°C. Seedlings were grown under the same conditions. For seedling salt tolerance assays, sterilized seed was plated on half-strength MS media without sucrose or other sugars (unless otherwise noted in text or figure legends) and stratified for 3 days at 4°C. Four-day-old seedlings were transferred to fresh plates of either the same media (control) or media containing NaCl at concentrations indicated in the text or figures. Root length increase was monitored over the following 7 days, and seedlings were photographed at the end of the experiment. For experiments involving dark-grown seedlings, seed was plated on control or salt-containing media with 0.5% sucrose, stratified, and either placed under the same growth conditions or kept in darkness by wrapping the plates in foil.  To make TAP-tagged SOS2, SOS2 cDNA was amplified by PCR with KOD polymerase (Takara) using SOS2-pGEX (CITATION) as the template. The primers used amplified a 1,207-bp fragment encoding SOS2 with flanking BP clonase recognition sites. Primer sequences were 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCAACCATGACAAAGAAAATGAGAAGAG-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTCCTCAAAACGTGATTGTTCTGAGA-3′. The PCR product was first cloned into pDONOR207 and then transferred to the pNTAPi vector (CITATION) using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). The recombinant plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation and used to transform sos2-2 plants by the floral dip method. Transgenic plants were selected on MS agar plates containing 25 mg liter−1 glufosinate ammonium.  TAP was carried out using NTAP-SOS2 plants grown in soil for 20 days and either harvested directly (control) or irrigated with 150 mM NaCl for 24 h (salt stressed). For both control and salt-stressed samples, entire plants (30 g of tissue) were collected from pots, briefly washed with water to remove soil from the roots, ground in liquid nitrogen, and used for TAP as previously described (CITATION). After the final elution step, the isolated protein was precipitated using STRATARESIN (Stratagene) and separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) using 8% polyacrylamide gels, and proteins were visualized by Coomassie staining. The gel was cut into horizontal slices, and corresponding slices (containing proteins of the same molecular weight) from control and salt-treated samples were processed in parallel. In each slice, proteins were subject to in-gel trypsin digestion and processed essentially as described previously (CITATION). The trypsin-digested peptides were analyzed by a micro-liquid chromatography (μLC) nano-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) with a Micromass quadrupole time-of-flight API US instrument (Waters, Milford, MA). For protein identification, the resulting MS/MS spectra were then searched against the NCBInr Arabidopsis database using the MASCOT program. For the relative quantification of proteins purified from salt-treated and control plants, samples were analyzed in a pairwise manner to minimize variation and an LC-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based label-free quantification strategy (CITATION) was used. Briefly, the LC-MS spectral intensity (counts) of an individually extracted ion chromatographic peak that was located by the m/z ratio, charge state, and retention time identified in the preceding LC-MS/MS experiment was used to represent the relative amount of the corresponding peptide ion. The total ion counts of several selected peptides were calculated for both control and salt-stressed samples to obtain relative quantitative ratios. The values were normalized by ion counts of autodigested tryptic peptides that were common to all samples. An average ratio ± standard deviation of all the peptides belonging to a single protein was calculated to estimate relative abundances of SOS2-interacting proteins for salt stress and control conditions.  Immunoblotting was performed both to check the levels of NTAP-SOS2 expression and to check the levels of NTAP-SOS2 present before and after the TAP procedure was performed. For detection of NTAP-SOS2 expression, 2-week-old seedlings grown on MS agar plates were homogenized in liquid nitrogen and suspended in extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA, 5 mM EGTA, 20% glycerol, 2 mM dithiothreitol, 2 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). An equal volume of 2× SDS-containing sample buffer was added, and the samples were heated at 95°C for 5 min and subjected to SDS-PAGE. Western blotting was performed using standard protocols. Briefly, proteins were electrophoretically transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Amersham) and blocked with 5% milk in phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.1% Tween 20. Blots were incubated with either SOS2 or VHA-B antibody, washed, and probed with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G antibody (Bio-Rad), and immunoreactive bands were detected with the ECL Western blotting detection system (Amersham). The SOS2 antibody has been previously described by our laboratory (CITATION). The VHA-B antibody was a generous gift from Heven Sze (University of Maryland) and has also been previously described (CITATION). Immunoblotting was also used to check the levels of NTAP-SOS2 and VHA-B present either before and after TAP in extracts from 20-day-old NTAP-SOS2 plants.  The entire coding sequence of VHA-B1 (At1g76030) was amplified by PCR from the cDNA clone U21927, obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, with primers containing restriction sites and cloned in frame between NcoI and XmaI sites of pACT2. Primer sequences were 5′-CATGCCATGGGGACGAATGATCTCGA-3′, 5′-TCCCCCCGGGTTAACTGGTTGAGTCGCGGCT-3′, and 5′-CATGCCATGGAGAGAACCTATCCTGAAGAGATGAT-3′. Similarly, the full-length coding sequence of VHA-B2 (At4g38510) was cloned in frame in pACT2 using NcoI and PstI and the cDNA clone U12748, obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, as a template. Primers sequences were 5′-CATGCCATGGGTGCTGCTGAAAACAACCTT-3′ and 5′-AAAACTGCAGTCAGTTGGTGGTATCGCGACTGTA-3′. For cloning of VHA-B1 and VHA-B2 Δ140, the same forward primer was used; the sequence was 5′-CATGCCATGGAGAGAACCTATCCTGAAGAGATGAT-3′. pAS-SOS2, pAS-SOS1, and pAS-SOS2K40N were used as previously described (CITATION). Plasmid DNA of bait and prey constructs was cotransformed (CITATION) into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y190. Yeast growth and the β-galactosidase assay were performed as previously described (CITATION, CITATION).  Transport assays were conducted using membranes isolated from suspension-cultured cells originated from wild-type, sos2-2, or sos3-1 calli. Calli were induced by transferring 2-week-old seedlings to plates containing callus initiation medium (4.3 g/liter MS salts, 30 g/liter sucrose, 1× MS vitamins, 3 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.05 mg/liter kinetin, 1 g/liter casein hydrolysate, and 7 g/liter agar at pH 5.7). The plates were then placed in the dark and subcultured onto new medium every 2 weeks. After three to five passages, friable callus formed and was transferred from plates to liquid culture (4.3 g/liter MS salts, 30 g/liter sucrose, 1× MS vitamins, 3 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.05 mg/liter kinetin, and 1 g/liter casein hydrolysate at pH 5.0). Cells were cultured in the dark at 24°C with shaking at 130 rpm and were subcultured every 5 to 7 days to generate sufficient suspension cells for the vesicle isolation and transport assays. Cells were harvested and used for membrane isolation at 7 days after subculturing.  Tonoplast vesicles were isolated using dextran gradients, and H+ transport assays were conducted as previously described (CITATION, CITATION). The proton transport activity of the tonoplast H+-ATPase was measured as a decrease (quench) in the fluorescence of the pH-sensitive fluorescent probe quinacrine (CITATION, CITATION). For V-ATPase H+ transport activity, the assay medium (1 ml) contained 5 μM quinacrine, 3 mM ATP, 100 mM 1,3-bis-Tris propane (BTP) chloride, 25 mM BTP-HEPES (pH 7.5), 250 mM mannitol, and 50 μg tonoplast membrane protein. Glutathione S-transferase-tagged recombinant, constitutively active T/DSOS2DF protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as previously described (CITATION, CITATION). When used in transport assays, 0.2 μg of T/DSOS2DF was incubated with membrane vesicles for 7 min at room temperature before pH gradient formation across the membrane (ΔpH) was initiated with the addition of MgSO4. 
