!~ABS~! In all land plants, cellulose is synthesized from hexameric plasma membrane complexes. Indirect evidence suggests that in vascular plants the complexes involved in primary wall synthesis contain three distinct cellulose synthase catalytic subunits (CESAs). In this study, we show that CESA3 and CESA6 fused to GFP are expressed in the same cells and at the same time in the hypocotyl of etiolated seedlings and migrate with comparable velocities along linear trajectories at the cell surface. We also show that CESA3 and CESA6 can be coimmunoprecipitated from detergent-solubilized extracts, their protein levels decrease in mutants for either CESA3, CESA6, or CESA1 and CESA3, CESA6 and also CESA1 can physically interact in vivo as shown by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. We also demonstrate that CESA6-related CESA5 and CESA2 are partially, but not completely, redundant with CESA6 and most likely compete with CESA6 for the same position in the cellulose synthesis complex. Using promoter-β-glucuronidase fusions we show that CESA5, CESA6, and CESA2 have distinct overlapping expression patterns in hypocotyl and root corresponding to different stages of cellular development. Together, these data provide evidence for the existence of binding sites for three distinct CESA subunits in primary wall cellulose synthase complexes, with two positions being invariably occupied by CESA1 and CESA3, whereas at least three isoforms compete for the third position. Participation of the latter three isoforms might fine-tune the CESA complexes for the deposition of microfibrils at distinct cellular growth stages.
!~RES~! The existence of two nonredundant isoxaben-resistant loci suggested that CESA3 and CESA6 are part of the same complex. To investigate this idea, we raised isoform-specific antibodies against the N-terminal predicted cytoplasmic domain of each protein. The antibodies were enriched by using a two-step immunopurification procedure, and their specificity was shown on immunoblots with the corresponding N-terminal fragments of CESA3, CESA6, and CESA1 produced in Escherichia coli (see Methods). The absence of cross-reactivity was also shown in the co-IP experiments described below. It is not excluded, however, that anti-CESA6 antibodies cross-reacted with more closely related isoforms CESA2, CESA5, or CESA9. CESA3 and CESA6 were undetectable in imbibed seeds and appeared after germination [supporting information (SI) Fig. 5]. The immunostained bands showed a size of ≈120 kDa, which is the predicted molecular mass for the CESA proteins. The amount of both proteins increased simultaneously in growing seedlings to reach a maximum at 96 h postimbibition, suggesting a coregulation at the protein level in developing seedlings. We next investigated the cellular and subcellular localization of CESA3 and CESA6. GFP-CESA3 and GFP-CESA6 were expressed from their own promoters in the respective cesa3je5 and cesa6prc1–1 mutant backgrounds. These constructs were biologically functional as shown by the complementation of the short hypocotyl phenotype of the mutants (SI Fig. 6). Both GFP-CESA3 and GFP-CESA6 could be observed in epidermal and cortical cells of 3-day-old dark-grown hypocotyls (FIG-REF A–D). In addition, GFP-CESA3 and GFP-CESA6 fluorescence showed a similar subcellular distribution. Both proteins accumulated in similar intracellular compartments and formed rows of fluorescent particles at the cell surface as described for yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-CESA6 (CITATION). Among these compartments one could recognize 1.3-μm doughnut-shaped compartments as described for YFP-CESA6 (CITATION) and smaller highly motile compartments. Time-lapse spinning disk microscopy showed bidirectional migration of surface particles for both fusion proteins. The average velocity of the particles in elongating epidermal cells was 272 nm/min (range: 53 to 622 nm/min) and 277 nm/min (range: 40 to 566 nm/min) for GFP-CESA6 and GFP-CESA3, respectively (FIG-REF E). These velocities are similar to those reported for YFP-CESA6 (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] If distinct CESA isoforms are present in the same complex, one can expect that reducing the protein levels of one isoform will also affect the levels of the other isoforms. To investigate this notion, we quantified the relative abundance of CESA3 and CESA6 in 4-day-old dark-grown seedlings in cesa1, cesa3, and cesa6 mutants. cesa6prc1–1 is a null allele (CITATION), whereas cesa3eli1–1 (CITATION) and cesa1rsw1–10 (CITATION) are both leaky alleles. All three mutants show a short hypocotyl and are deficient for cellulose in their primary cell walls (SI Fig. 7) (CITATION). CESA3 and CESA6 proteins accumulated to similar levels either in Col-0 or WS backgrounds (FIG-REF A and B). As expected, in cesa6prc1–1 the anti-CESA6 antibody detected only a few percent of the wild-type levels (FIG-REF A). The residual signal may be related to cross-reaction with related CESA subunits, such as CESA2 or CESA5. Interestingly, CESA3 protein levels were also significantly reduced in this mutant. In a similar way, in cesa3eli1–1 not only the level of CESA3 was reduced but also that of CESA6 (FIG-REF A). The less severe reduction of CESA6 compared with CESA3 in this mutant may be related to the altered properties of the remaining mutant CESA3 protein. Because we did not dispose of specific antibodies for CESA1, we could not analyze directly the CESA1 protein levels in the three mutants. However, in cesa1rsw1–10 we observed that levels of CESA3 and CESA6 were also diminished (FIG-REF B). Together, these data show that the normal accumulation of each of the CESA3 and CESA6 proteins requires the presence of normal levels of both CESA1, CESA3, and CESA6, which is consistent with the presence of these three proteins in the same complex. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether CESA3 and CESA6 physically interact, we carried out co-IP experiments on detergent-solubilized protein extracts from 4-day-old dark-grown seedlings (FIG-REF C). As expected, anti-CESA3 antibodies precipitated CESA3 both in nondenaturing and denaturing conditions (FIG-REF C, lane 5). Interestingly, CESA6 also coimmunoprecipitated with CESA3 in nondenaturing conditions, whereas no CESA6 signal was observed in denaturing conditions. The latter observation also confirms the absence of cross-reactivity of anti-CESA6 with CESA3. Similar results were obtained with the reciprocal experiment in which anti-CESA6 antibodies were used for the co-IP. Again, CESA6 precipitated in both nondenaturing and denaturing conditions, whereas CESA3 only coprecipitated in nondenaturing conditions. These results show that a stable interaction existed between CESA3 and CESA6 in Triton X-100-solubilized extracts and that this interaction was disrupted in denaturing buffer. None of the CESAs were immunodetected in the absence of the primary antibody (CESA3 or CESA6) (data not shown). Using the anti-CESA6 antibody, we observed a second band on the immunoblot. This band may correspond to a truncated CESA6 isoform or a CESA6-related isoform. We also investigated the interaction of CESA3 and CESA6 with the membrane-bound cellulase KOR1, which is also required for normal cellulose synthesis (CITATION). KOR1 protein was detected only in the unbound fraction and not in the immunoprecipitates with anti-CESA3 or CESA6 antibodies. These results indicate that KOR1 did not stably interact with CESA3 nor with CESA6 in detergent-solubilized extracts and underscore the specificity of the observed CESA3–CESA6 interaction. To confirm the co-IP results, we studied the capacity of CESA isoforms to interact in vivo by using the BiFC technique (CITATION). The N-terminal and the C-terminal fragments of YFP were both fused to the N terminus of the coding sequences of CESA1, CESA3, and CESA6. As shown in SI Fig. 6, GFP fusions at this position do not interfere with the functionality of at least CESA3 and CESA6. Combinations of chimeric genes expressed from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves using Agrobacterium infiltration. As a positive control, we used the aquaporin PIP2–1 (CITATION). Aquaporins are known to form homotetramers in the plasma membrane (CITATION). As expected, coexpression of YN-PIP2-1 and YC-PIP2-1 yielded a YFP signal (FIG-REF D), whereas no signal was detected by expression of either YN-PIP2-1 or YC-PIP2–1 alone (data not shown). The fluorescence emission spectrum of the signal indeed confirmed that the signal was derived from a functional YFP (SI Fig. 8B ). We next investigated whether the fusion proteins derived from the three CESA proteins could homodimerize. As shown in FIG-REF D and SI Fig. 8, a fluorescent signal was observed for YN-CESA3/YC-CESA3 and YN-CESA6/YC-CESA6 combinations. Fluorescent signals were observed both at the cell surface and in intracellular compartments, similar to that of CESA3 or CESA6 fused to intact YFP (SI Fig. 8C ). For YN-CESA1/YC-CESA3 and YN-CESA3/YC-CESA3, the signal was always weaker, suggesting that this protein homodimerizes less efficiently (SI Fig. 8E ). We also analyzed the YN-CESA1/YC-CESA1 combination, which also reconstituted the YFP fluorescence (SI Fig. 8D ). For all three CESA fusions, no fluorescent signal was detected by expression of either YN-CESA or YC-CESA alone (data not shown). To investigate whether heterodimers could also be formed, we coexpressed YN-CESA3/YC-CESA1, YN-CESA1/YC-CESA3, YN-CESA6/YC-CESA1, YN-CESA1/YC-CESA6, YN-CESA3/YC-CESA6, or YN-CESA6/YC-CESA3 (SI Fig. 8 and FIG-REF D). We observed that YFP fluorescence was reconstituted for all of the combinations, suggesting that all three isoforms can form a complex. As a negative control, we coexpressed PIP2-1 chimerae with corresponding CESA constructs (FIG-REF D). No signal was detected with combinations of either YN-PIP2-1 or YC-PIP2-1 for all of the CESA fusions tested, suggesting that PIP2-1 and CESA proteins were unable to interact despite the presence of both proteins in the plasma membrane. In conclusion, all three isoforms showed interactions in vivo, confirming the co-IP results for CESA3 and CESA6. The mild phenotype of CESA6 null alleles as compared with strong mutant alleles of CESA1 or CESA3 and the lower resistance to isoxaben of cesa6ixr2–1 mutant than cesa3ixr1–1 or cesa3ixr1–2 (CITATION, CITATION) might be caused by partial redundancy with other CESA isoforms. CESA2, CESA5, and CESA9 are closely related to CESA6. CESA9 is only expressed during embryogenesis, as shown by public microarray data and promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusions (data not shown), and was not considered in this study. We first studied single T-DNA insertion mutants for CESA2 or CESA5. Mutant light-grown seedlings and adult plants were indistinguishable from the wild type (FIG-REF A and C). However, the dark-grown hypocotyl of cesa2 was slightly shorter than that of the wild type (FIG-REF B and Table 1). The analysis of the cell wall of dark-grown mutant hypocotyls with FTIR microspectroscopy failed to detect differences with the wild type as shown by the tight clustering of the mutants with wild-type controls (SI Fig. 7). The FTIR spectra of double cesa2/cesa5 mutants also clustered with those of the wild type. Interestingly, compared with the single cesa2 mutant, the dark-grown hypocotyl of the double mutant was slightly longer. In addition, roots of light-grown cesa2/cesa5 seedlings were slightly longer, and adult plants were slightly larger than the wild type (FIG-REF A and C). In contrast, mutant combinations with cesa6 showed a very different picture. cesa2/cesa6 double mutants showed an enhanced phenotype compared with cesa6 as shown by the reduced hypocotyl length in the dark, the reduced root length in the light, and the strongly dwarfed and bushy adult cesa2/cesa6 plants (FIG-REF). cesa5/cesa6 double homozygotes were seedling lethal. Interestingly, the cesa5 allele showed a strong dosage effect in a homozygous cesa6 background as shown by the 1:2:1 segregation of the dark-grown hypocotyl into three size classes within the F2 population of a cesa6 −/−;cesa5 +/− heterozygote (SI Fig. 9). To construct the triple mutant, we crossed cesa2 −/− cesa5 −/− with cesa2 −/− cesa6 −/−. Among the cesa2−/− cesa6 −/− F2 seedlings only the cesa5 +/+ seedlings were viable. The cesa5 +/− or cesa5 −/− seedlings either bleached and died or survived as very small sterile plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Hypocotyl lengths of 5-day-old dark-grown seedlings We next investigated whether the lower isoxaben resistance of cesa6ixr2–1 compared with cesa3ixr1–2 was caused by the presence of CESA6-related proteins in the cellulose synthase complexes of cesa6ixr2–1 plants. To this end, we quantified the resistance to isoxaben of all double and triple mutant combinations of cesa2 and cesa5 with cesa6ixr2–1 (FIG-REF) by measuring the hypocotyl length of 5-day-old dark-grown seedlings on increasing concentrations of isoxaben. As observed previously, cesa6ixr2–1 was ≈50-fold more resistant to isoxaben than the wild type, and cesa3ixr1–2 was 5-fold more resistant than cesa6ixr2–1 . Interestingly, adding cesa5 increased the resistance of cesa6ixr2–1 to that of cesa3ixr1–2 , adding cesa2 caused a >10-fold increase in resistance, and adding both cesa2 and cesa5 rendered the seedling insensitive to 100 nM isoxaben. The increased resistance was not caused by increased CESA3 or CESA6 protein levels in the mutants (data not shown). Together, these data show that all three CESA6-related isoforms are targets for isoxaben, suggesting that they compete for the same binding site within the cellulose synthase complex. [[FIGURE]] Using promoter-GUS fusions we studied the expression patterns of CESA6, CESA2, and CESA5 genes in dark-grown hypocotyls and roots of 72-h-old seedlings (SI Fig. 10A ). At this stage, different phases of cell expansion are represented from the top to the base of the hypocotyl or from the tip to the base of the root. Promoter CESA5-GUS was weakly expressed only in the unexpanded cells in the apical hook of the hypocotyl. Promoter CESA6-GUS expression occurred throughout the hypocotyl and root, peaking in the growth acceleration zone just below the apical hook and in the cell elongation zone in the root. Promoter CESA2-GUS expression largely overlapped with that of promoter CESA6-GUS, but in the root, peaked in more mature cells. The GUS expression patterns in the root were consistent with the microarray data for CESA2, CESA5, and CESA6 on flow-sorted root protoplasts (CITATION). In conclusion, the three partially redundant CESA genes mark distinct cellular growth stages in hypocotyl and root. We showed that CESA5 is partially redundant with CESA6 and most likely competes for the same site in the complex. The incomplete redundancy can be caused by the partially overlapping expression patterns or intrinsic differences in the protein structure and function. To investigate this, we expressed CESA5 from the CESA6 promoter in a cesa6prc1–1 null background. Three independent transformants showed incomplete restoration of the hypocotyl growth defect (SI Fig. 10B ). On the contrary, expressing CESA6 from the same promoter sequence completely restored the wild-type phenotype to cesa6prc1–1 (data not shown). The results show that CESA5 cannot entirely substitute for CESA6, suggesting that both isoforms have specialized roles in the deposition of cellulose in expanding cells.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis wild-type Col-0 and mutant lines were grown as described (CITATION) at 20°C without sucrose. See SI Table 2 for mutants and T-DNA insertion lines used in this study. Plants were grown in the dark as described (CITATION) or in a 16-h light and 8-h dark cycle. Homozygous lines for cesa2 and cesa5 were screened for the simultaneous presence of a PCR product amplified from the left T-DNA border and absence of a PCR product from the genomic sequence using primers flanking the T-DNA insertion (SI Table 3). Double and triple cesa mutants were genotyped by PCR. Promoter-GUS lines for CESA2, CESA5, and CESA6 (described in ref. CITATION) were kindly provided by M. Doblin (University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia). The length of hypocotyls fixed with 0.2% formaldehyde were measured by using Optimas 4.1 software as described (CITATION). The N-terminal regions upstream of the first transmembrane domains of CESA3 and CESA6 were amplified (primers in SI Table 3) and cloned into the EcoR1 site of pGEX3X and pGEX2T (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ), respectively. GST-fusion proteins were purified on GHS-Sepharose 4B resin according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Amersham Biosciences). Rabbit antibodies against the GST-fusion polypeptides were produced by BioGenes (Berlin, Germany). GST-fusion proteins were coupled to CNBr-activated Sepharose 4F according to the supplier's protocol (Amersham Biosciences). The serum was incubated with the antigen-Sepharose matrix, and the unbound fraction was extensively washed from the resin according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Antibodies were eluted with 0.2 M glycine (pH 2), 0.15 M NaCl and neutralized with 1.5 M Tris·HCl, pH 8.8. To further improve the specificity of the sera, the pooled fractions eluted from the CESA3-Sepharose resin were loaded on the CESA6-Sepharose resin, and the unbound fraction on this matrix was used as purified CESA3 antibody. The antibodies raised against CESA6 were prepared in the same manner. The specificity of the CESA3 and CESA6 antibodies was verified by immunoblotting against the GST-fusion proteins (SI Fig. 11A ). Samples corresponding to 50 dark-grown seedlings were collected at different times and ground in 50 μl of extraction buffer (4 M urea and 100 mM DTT). Twenty-five microliters of modified Laemmli buffer (without bromophenol blue) was added, and the samples were boiled for 5 min and centrifuged at 10,000 × g for 10 min at room temperature. Protein content of the supernatant was quantified by using the RC DC Protein Assay method (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Aliquots of 20 μg protein were then analyzed by 8% SDS/PAGE (CITATION) and immunoblotted according to standard protocols. The purified anti-CESA sera were used in 1:1,000 dilution, and the signals were measured by fluorescent detection of AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit (used at 1/3,000; Molecular Probes–Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and quantified with ImageGauge software (Fuji, Tokyo, Japan). Fifty Arabidopsis seedlings grown in liquid medium (CITATION) for 48 h in the dark were labeled with a mixture of 35S-labeled methionine and [35S]cysteine (0.2 MBq; PerkinElmer Life Science, Albany, NY) for 4 h. Seedlings were then extensively washed and used for IP. Radiolabeled proteins were separated by 8% SDS/PAGE (CITATION) and visualized by phosphorimaging (Fuji FLA 5000). Two grams of 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings was ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was transferred to either 6 ml of solubilization buffer [50 mM Tris·HCl, pH 8/150 mM NaCl/2% Triton X-100, containing 1% (wt/vol) polyvinylpyrrolidone (Polyclar AT), plant protease inhibitor mixture and phosphatase inhibitor mixture 1 and 2 (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) used, respectively, at a 100- and 200-fold dilution] or denaturing buffer [50 mM Tris·HCl, pH 8/150 mM NaCl/1% Nonidet P-40/0.5% deoxycholate/0.1% SDS, containing 1% (wt/vol) polyvinylpyrrolidone (Polyclar AT) and the mixture of inhibitors]. A cleared cell lysate was obtained by centrifugation at 8,000 × g for 10 min and filtration of the supernatant through Miracloth. An aliquot of 2 mg of protein was supplemented with purified polyclonal antisera at 1:50 dilutions, and IPs were carried out essentially according to established protocols (CITATION). Immunoprecipitated proteins bound on Protein A Sepharose CL-4B beads (Amersham Biosciences) were boiled in 2× Laemmli buffer, and proteins were analyzed by 8% SDS/PAGE (CITATION) and immunoblotted using the ECL Luminescent Detection System (Amersham Biosciences). Autoradiography of the proteins precipitated in denaturing conditions with either anti-CESA6 or anti-KOR1 out of extracts from 35S-labeled seedlings confirmed the specificity of the respective antibodies for proteins of the expected molecular masses (respectively, 120 and 72 kDa; SI Fig. 11B ) also when used in IP experiments. For plant expression vectors see SI Text . Leaves of 3-week-old plants were transformed by infiltration as described (CITATION). YFP fluorescence was detected 3 days after infiltration by using the 514-nm laser line of a SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica, Solms, Germany,) equiped with an argon laser. To check the YFP reconstitution, spectral analysis was performed with the 496-nm laser line. For BiFC experiments, all constructs fluorescence was detected at the same photo-multiplier tube (PMT) settings (760), except for the negative interactions for which the PMT was increased up to 880. Seedlings expressing GFP-CESA3 and GFP-CESA6 were cultured as described (CITATION). Three-day-old etiolated seedlings were analyzed on an Axiovert 200M confocal microscope (Zeiss, Thornwood, NY) equipped with a Yokogawa CSU22 spinning disk, Zeiss ×100/1.4 N.A. oil objective, and Andor EMCCD DV885 camera (Plateforme d'Imagerie Dynamique, Institut Pasteur, Paris). GFP was excited at 488 nm by a diode pumped solid-state laser, and fluorescence emission was collected through a 505/555-nm band-pass filter (Semrock, Rochester, NY). GFP-CESA velocities were quantified by using the manual tracking plugin (F. Cordelières) in ImageJ (W. Rasband, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD) (n = 307 for CESA3; n = 393 for CESA6). Seventy-two-hour-old dark-grown seedlings expressing promoter CESA-GUS fusion were submerged in GUS buffer as described (CITATION), infiltrated three times (3 min) under vacuum, and incubated at 37°C for 1 or 2 h. Seedlings were washed three times with 70% ethanol. Four biological replicates of wild-type or mutant dark-grown seedlings were analyzed by FTIR microscopy as described (CITATION). The collected spectra were baselined and normalized as described, and statistical analysis was performed by using Student's t test (CITATION).
