!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis thaliana, the BEL1-like TALE homeodomain protein family consists of 13 members that form heterodimeric complexes with the Class 1 KNOX TALE homeodomain proteins, including SHOOTMERISTEMLESS (STM) and BREVIPEDICELLUS (BP). The BEL1-like protein BELLRINGER (BLR) functions together with STM and BP in the shoot apex to regulate meristem identity and function and to promote correct shoot architecture. We have characterized two additional BEL1-LIKE HOMEODOMAIN (BLH) proteins, SAWTOOTH1 (BLH2/SAW1) and SAWTOOTH2 (BLH4/SAW2) that, in contrast with BLR, are expressed in lateral organs and negatively regulate BP expression. saw1 and saw2 single mutants have no obvious phenotype, but the saw1 saw2 double mutant has increased leaf serrations and revolute margins, indicating that SAW1 and SAW2 act redundantly to limit leaf margin growth. Consistent with this hypothesis, overexpression of SAW1 suppresses overall growth of the plant shoot. BP is ectopically expressed in the leaf serrations of saw1 saw2 double mutants. Ectopic expression of Class 1 KNOX genes in leaves has been observed previously in loss-of-function mutants of ASYMMETRIC LEAVES (AS1). Overexpression of SAW1 in an as1 mutant suppresses the as1 leaf phenotype and reduces ectopic BP leaf expression. Taken together, our data suggest that BLH2/SAW1 and BLH4/SAW2 establish leaf shape by repressing growth in specific subdomains of the leaf at least in part by repressing expression of one or more of the KNOX genes.
!~RES~! The loss of BEL1 gene function results in abnormal ovule growth and embryo sac arrest (CITATION; CITATION). Consistent with its mutant phenotype, BEL1 is expressed in the developing ovule and in the inflorescence apex (CITATION; CITATION). However, RNA gel blot (CITATION) and in situ hybridization (CITATION) indicate that BEL1 is expressed in vegetative tissues where there is no obvious mutant phenotype. This lack of vegetative phenotype in a bel1 null mutant could be explained by genetic redundancy. In Arabidopsis, there are 12 TALE homeobox genes closely related in sequence to BEL1 that have been identified, including BLH1-7, BLH10, BLH11 (for BEL1-LIKE HOMEODOMAIN), BLR, PNF, and ATH1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; this study). These deduced BLH proteins share at least three regions of sequence similarity: the DNA binding homeodomain and the BELL and SKY domains involved in BEL1 interactions with KNOX TALE homeodomain proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis of this gene family (Figure 1A ; CITATION) indicates that the genes most closely related in sequence to BEL1 are two genes formerly referred to as BLH2 and BLH4 (CITATION) that we designate SAW1 and SAW2, respectively, based on their loss-of-function leaf phenotype (see below). We focused on these two genes as the ones most likely to have overlapping functions with BEL1, similar to the situation observed with Arabidopsis MADS domain proteins (CITATION). SAW1 and SAW2 proteins are 87% identical. The BEL1 gene is more closely related to BLH2/SAW1 and BLH4/SAW2 than to other BLH genes (Figure 1A; 73 and 72% protein sequence similarity, respectively). SAW2 and SAW1 are on chromosomes 2 and 4, respectively, and the chromosomal regions surrounding these genes share extensive sequence similarity (Table 1 ; see Supplemental Figure 1B online; CITATION), suggesting that they arose from segmental chromosomal duplication of one of the two loci. Since SAW1 and SAW2 exhibit sequence similarity, it is possible that the two genes share similar functions and exhibit similar expression patterns. Indeed, a comparison of the regions upstream to the translational start sites of SAW1 and SAW2 genes shows three conserved regions in the 5′ untranslated region (see Supplemental Figure 1C online), indicating that they might have common transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulatory elements. In support of this hypothesis, results of a PRIMe microarray coexpression gene search (http://prime.psc.riken.jp/?action=coexpression_index) with one of the two genes identifies the other as the best coexpression match, indicating that the two genes are expressed in similar domains. [[FIGURE]] Paralogous Genes Found in the Duplicated Region That Includes SAW1 and SAW2 We have previously reported that BEL1 selectively interacts with KNOX homeodomain proteins and that this interaction primarily involves the SKY and BELL domains (CITATION). Since these domains are highly conserved between BEL1, SAW1, and SAW2 proteins, it is possible that their ability to interact with KNOX proteins is also similar. To test this hypothesis, full-length cDNAs for BEL1, SAW1, and a more distantly related gene BLH1 were used in yeast two-hybrid assays as prey (TA) to test for interaction with KNAT homeodomain proteins and the seed storage protein Cruciferin (negative control) as bait (DB). As anticipated from previous results (CITATION), BEL1 was able to interact with STM, BP, KNAT2, and KNAT5 but not KNAT3, KNAT4, KNAT7, or Cruciferin. None of the BLH proteins in combination with DB-Cruciferin activated β-galactosidase, indicating that BLH proteins do not interact with GAL4 DB or nonspecifically with other proteins (Figure 1B). TA-SAW1 and TA-SAW2 promoted β-galactosidase activity in combination with DB-BP, KNAT2, KNAT5, and STM but not with DB-KNAT3, 4 or 7; an interaction profile identical to that of BEL1. However, TA-BLH1 promoted β-galactosidase activity only in combination with TA-KNAT2 and pTA-KNAT5. These data suggest that members of BLH family are generally capable of forming heterodimeric complexes with KNOX proteins but that the specific KNOX partners may vary. We investigated the expression domains of SAW1 and SAW2 in more detail using RT-PCR, RNA in situ hybridization (SAW1 and BEL1), and β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter constructs fused to the SAW1, SAW2, and BEL1 promoter regions to provide clues to their function and determine the extent to which their expression domains overlap with each other and that of BEL1 (Figure 2 ; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Unlike BEL1 (CITATION; CITATION), SAW1 and SAW2 were not expressed in developing ovules (Figures 2B and 2C) and therefore are unlikely to be redundant with BEL1 function in ovule development. These data are consistent with the fact that mutation of BEL1 results in an ovule mutant phenotype (CITATION). BEL1 is expressed in the inflorescence and floral meristems (Figure 2D; CITATION), but SAW1 and SAW2 are not (Figures 2E and 2F). However, in other parts of the plant, especially lateral organs, the expression domains of BEL1, SAW1, and SAW2 overlap extensively, indicating that these proteins might play a specialized role in the development of such lateral organs. In flowers, all three genes were expressed in the sepals. SAW1 and SAW2, but not BEL1, were expressed in the anther filament, style, and transmitting tract (Figures 2H and 2I), while only BEL1 was expressed in the ovary walls and at the base of the flower (receptacle; Figure 2G). SAW1 showed a unique, but faint, expression in the petals. [[FIGURE]] In developing leaves, BEL1:GUS was localized to the adaxial side (Figure 2J), similar to the adaxial expression observed for SAW1 in sepals and leaves by in situ hybridization experiments (Figures 2E and 2K) and for SAW2:GUS in the cotyledons of a developing embryo (Figure 2L), suggesting a role for these genes in the development of lateral organ asymmetry. SAW1, SAW2, and BEL1 were all expressed in mature leaves, with a more uniform adaxial/abaxial distribution. BEL1 expression is fairly uniform throughout the mature leaf; however, SAW1 and SAW2 show higher expression in vasculature and hydathodes in comparison to the mesophyll and epidermal cells (Figures 2M to 2O), and BEL1, SAW1, and SAW2 expression patterns also overlapped in the stem (cortex), pedicel, root, and embryo (data not shown). Several lines of evidence suggest that SAW1 could be redundant with BEL1. To test this hypothesis directly, we introduced 35S:SAW1 into a bel1 mutant background and evaluated its ability to complement the bel1 mutant phenotype. A 35S:SAW1 gene construct was transformed into wild-type plants. A hemizygous 35S:SAW1 transformant was crossed to bel1-3 using bel1-3 as a pollen donor (the 35S:SAW1 plants are male sterile; see below) and the F1 progeny backcrossed to bel1-3. The bel1-3 homozygous testcross progeny were identified by PCR (see Methods) and the ovule phenotype examined. All 18 35S:SAW1 bel1-3/bel1-3 lines tested had ovules that appeared morphologically wild-type with both inner and outer integuments. Approximately 50% of the ovules in each silique were indistinguishable from the wild type in appearance, while the remainder had integuments that were shorter in length than the wild type (Figure 1C). Furthermore, all 35S:SAW1 bel1-3/bel1-3 lines that were cross-pollinated set seeds (data not shown), indicating that the ovules were fertile. Similar results were also obtained when 35S:SAW1 was crossed into the bel1-1 mutant (data not shown). These results demonstrate that 35S:SAW1 can complement the bel1-3 ovule defect. In an attempt to learn more about the function of SAW1 and SAW2 in planta, reverse genetic techniques were used to generate plant lines with loss-of-function SAW1 and SAW2 alleles. We examined saw1 and saw2 mutant alleles obtained through the Salk collection of T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION) and by screening ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized plants by TILLING (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Figure 3A shows the position of insertion/mutation in the gene in these alleles. A SAW1 TILLING allele (saw1-2) had a missense mutation that would be expected to result in a nonconservative amino acid substitution that could alter the function of the encoded protein. The saw1-1 allele has a T-DNA insertion in the third intron that separates the two exons that code for the homeodomain region. The saw1-1 transcript is severely reduced in abundance relative to SAW1 (Figure 3B), but transcript is still detectable. Thus, the saw1-1 mutant could be hypomorphic. The T-DNA insertional lines, saw2-1 and saw2-2, have insertions in the first intron and first exon, respectively, and have no detectable full-length transcripts (Figure 3B). All mutant alleles segregated in F2 populations as expected for single nuclear loci (data not shown). Under our normal growth conditions, no obvious morphological defects in the shoot segregated with any of the alleles examined. [[FIGURE]] Since SAW1 and SAW2 are products of chromosomal duplication (Table 1) and have very similar expression profiles, we suspected that the lack of visible defects in the single mutants might be because of functional redundancy and decided to examine saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants. Plants from an F2 population segregating for both saw1-1 and saw2-1 were genotyped using molecular assays (see Methods). All saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants, unlike the single mutants, had a distinct mutant phenotype characterized by increased serrations in leaf margins and revolute leaves that have margins curled abaxially (Figures 3C to 3E). Since in wild-type leaves SAW1 and SAW2 are specifically expressed in the adaxial side of developing leaves (Figures 2K and 2L) and in the hydathodes in the margins of older leaves (Figures 2N and 2O), these phenotypes could arise from loss of SAW function in these tissues. The saw2 single mutants also have slightly revolute margins, but the phenotype is not as obvious as in the double mutant. On closer examination, the single mutants also show a slight increase in serration length and numbers. The serrations observed were most prominent in the seventh and subsequent leaves initiated, and these leaves have a sawtooth appearance; hence, the genes were designated as SAW1 and SAW2. The double mutants had significantly more and deeper serrations than the wild type or the single mutants (Table 2 ). Also, the number of serrations increased with leaf number (Figure 3F). Plants heterozygous for either of the two mutations and homozygous for the other also exhibit serrations (less prominent than the double mutants), indicating that this phenotype is dosage dependant (data not shown). In addition to the leaf margin defects, saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant leaves are darker green in color, and the third and fourth leaves of the double mutant are more elongated than the wild-type leaves of the same stage. The plants produce more leaves than the wild type and show a delay in flowering by 2 to 3 d in our continuous light growth conditions (Table 2). Serration Length and Flowering Time in Wild-Type and saw Mutants We demonstrated that the observed phenotypes were due to disruption of saw1 and saw2 in three ways. First, all phenotypes cosegregated with the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant genotype. Second, saw double mutants carrying different saw1 and saw2 allele combinations (saw1-1 saw2-1; saw1-2 saw1-1 and saw1-1 saw2-2) had similar phenotypes (Table 3 ). Third, the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant phenotype was complemented by transformation with a SAW2 genomic DNA fragment (see Methods). Nineteen out of 28 transformants showed a significant reduction in the number of leaf serrations (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Since complementation of the mutant phenotype looks to be dosage dependent, both the number of copies inserted and the position of insertion may influence the extent of complementation in the transformant. Serrations in the Seventh Leaf of Different Allele Combinations of saw Mutants Since BEL1 and the SAW proteins are very similar in structure, expression, and interaction pattern, a triple mutant was generated with saw1-1, saw2-1, and bel1-1 to check for potential genetic redundancy or interaction. The progeny of an F2 plant that was homozygous for saw1-1 and saw2-1 and heterozygous for bel1-1 (bel1-1 is female sterile) were screened for triple mutants. The triple mutants identified showed an additive phenotype, including both bel1-1–like ovule defects and serrated leaves similar to those of the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant, indicating that BEL1 and SAW genes are not functionally redundant in tissues where their expression overlaps and/or as yet uncharacterized genes provide additional functional redundancy masking the affect of BEL1 loss. As shown above, SAW1 transcript in the shoot is found primarily in leafy organs and excluded from the meristematic region. Interestingly, although SAW1 has the ability to interact with Class 1 KNOX proteins STM, BP, and KNAT2, the available data for STM, BP, and KNAT2 gene expression has shown that all three genes are expressed in meristems, stem, and reproductive organs but not leaves, sepals, and petals (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To verify the nonoverlap in expression pattern, we used in situ hybridization to compare SAW1 transcript distribution in the inflorescence with that for STM and BP. Our results (Figure 4A ) clearly indicate that in these tissues, the SAW1 transcript distribution is adjacent to but does not significantly overlap with that of either STM or BP except in the stage 1 to 2 floral meristem. These data suggest that interaction between SAW1 and Class 1 KNOX proteins in the developing inflorescence either does not occur, occurs at early stages only to resolve to mutually exclusive domains, or occurs in cells along the common border of the different expression domains. [[FIGURE]] The leaf serrations of the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant are similar to those found in the leaves of BP overexpression lines with weak phenotypes (CITATION). BP expression is not detected in wild-type Arabidopsis leaves (CITATION). To test if there is a change in BP expression pattern in the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants, we introduced a BP:GUS transgene (CITATION) into a saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutant background by crossing the appropriate lines and screening the F2 population. BP:GUS expression was detected in the hydathodes (present at the tip of serrations) of the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants (Figure 4B) but not in the wild type. The intensity of GUS expression was roughly proportional to the size of the serration in the leaf margin (Figure 4B). BP:GUS expression was also observed in secondary serrations found in the ninth leaf and onwards (Figure 4B, d, arrow). In addition to misexpression of BP in the leaf, 4-methylumbelliferyl β-d-glucuronide fluorometric assays (see Methods) revealed increased BP:GUS expression in the inflorescence and stem internodes of saw1 saw2 double mutants (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), indicating that BP (and perhaps other KNOX genes) may be upregulated in areas where SAW and BP expression overlap. To further characterize the interactions of SAW and BP, saw1 saw2 bp triple mutants were generated. These plants had the characteristics of both saw1 saw2 double mutant (serrated leaves) and the bp phenotype (downward-pointing pedicels; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The lack of a genetic interaction might be ascribed to the possible misexpression of other Class 1 KNOX genes, as was observed in the as1 and as2 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). In support, our RT-PCR data does indicate that besides BP, the KNOX genes KNAT6 and STM are also expressed in the leaves of saw1 saw2 but not in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). The as1 mutant of Arabidopsis exhibits lobing of the leaves and misexpression of KNOX genes, such as BP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Like the saw1 saw2 double mutant serrations, the number of lobes in the as1 mutant increases with the leaf number (CITATION). To investigate the genetic interaction between SAW1, SAW2, and AS1, we constructed the saw1 saw2 as1 triple mutant. The leaves (fifth leaf and higher) of saw1-1 saw2-1 as1-1 triple mutants exhibited more lobing/serrations than as1 and also showed deeper sinuses than either as1 or the saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants (Figure 5 ). Although the triple mutant had more lobes than are found in as1 single mutants, the lobes were fewer in number than the serrations found in saw1-1 saw2-1 double mutants (Figure 5C). One possible explanation for this is that the as1 mutant has fewer hydathodes than the wild type and hence is unable to make as many serrations/lobes (CITATION). Another possibility is that the longer serrations are formed at the expense of the serration number. Such an inverse correlation between serration length and serration number has been observed in a comparison of different species of Begonia (CITATION). In any case, these additive phenotypic effects observed in the double mutant suggest that the functions regulated by SAW1 and SAW2 are relatively independent of those regulated by AS1. Furthermore, RT-PCR analysis of SAW1 expression in wild-type and as1 leaves indicates that there is no difference in expression (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Therefore, as1 phenotype is not a consequence of SAW1 downregulation. Taken together, these data indicate that AS1 and SAW1 are likely functioning in parallel pathways to repress BP expression. [[FIGURE]] The saw1-1 saw2-1 loss-of-function phenotype suggests that the SAW genes function, at least in part, to suppress growth in developing leaves. To test this hypothesis, transgenic plant lines expressing SAW1 ectopically were generated by transforming Arabidopsis with a SAW1 gene under the control of a tandem cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Of 100 transformants recovered, 15 showed a similar set of morphological defects described below. All aspects of the phenotype segregated together with the T-DNA, and RNA gel blot analysis showed such plants to have a much higher level of SAW1 transcript than the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). Taken together, these data suggest that the phenotype is due to over/ectopic expression of SAW1. The 35S:SAW1 shoots were significantly smaller than that of the wild type (Figure 6A ). Leaves were rounder in shape and either flat or curved in the dorsal-ventral axis toward the adaxial side unlike wild-type leaves that are slightly curved toward the abaxial side (Figure 6A, c) or the saw mutant, which has revolute leaves (Figure 3D). These data suggest defects in the abaxial-adaxial polarity of 35S:SAW1. Comparison of the cell types of the 35S:SAW1 abaxial and adaxial leaf surfaces with those of the wild type showed no obvious differences, indicating that the polarity defects were primarily due to differences in adaxial-abaxial growth rather than cell identity. Internodal length of the inflorescence stem was significantly shorter than the wild type, and measurements of stem epidermal cell length indicated that the growth defect was due to both a decrease in cell size and number (Figure 6A, d, Table 4 ). [[FIGURE]] Cell Size and Number of Stem Epidermal Cells in the Wild Type and 35S:SAW1 The flowers of 35S:SAW1 plants also showed morphological defects (Figure 6B). The number of organs in the second and third whorls was consistently less than in the wild type (Figures 6B and 6C), and organ fusions were not uncommon (Figure 6B, e and f). These phenotypes are similar to those described for the weak stm-2 allele, which also exhibits a reduction in organ number and organ fusions in the second and third whorls (CITATION). Like the leaves, floral organs were smaller than the wild type. Petals were sometimes folded and pistils had an irregular bumpy appearance likely due to growth suppression in the silique valves (Figure 6B, c). Finally, 35S:SAW1 plants were sterile in part due to reduced pollen development in the anther and a decrease in stamen length that prevented self-fertilization. However, hand pollination of 35S:SAW1 pistils with their own pollen produced viable seed. Taken together, these data suggest that SAW1 can act as a negative regulator of growth throughout the plant. As described earlier, the as1 mutant shows lobed leaves that are associated with ectopic expression of Class 1 KNOX genes. Since the SAW1 genes also suppress KNOX function in the leaf, we tested their ability to suppress the as1 mutant phenotype when expressed ectopically. The leaf phenotype of 35S:SAW1 as1 plants more closely resembled that of 35S:SAW1 alone, suggesting that SAW1 function can partially complement the as1 mutant phenotype (Figure 7A ). To determine whether 35S:SAW1 has a direct effect on BP expression in as1 leaves, RNA gel blot analysis was used to compare BP expression in leaves of as1 and 35S:SAW1 as1 plants. 35S:SAW1 was sufficient to significantly repress BP expression in the leaves of as1 mutants (Figure 7B). Since the level of expression of SAW1 remained unchanged in an as1 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), it is quite possible that in wild-type leaves, AS1 and SAW1 repress BP expression in leaves by independent mechanisms, possibly in temporally and/or spatially distinct subdomains of the leaf. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Columbia-0 (Col-0), Col-2, Col with erecta mutation (Col er105), and Landsberg erecta were used as wild-type controls in phenotypic screens and other experiments for the mutants and transgenics, in accordance with their genetic backgrounds. BP:GUS was a gift from Sarah Hake (CITATION). All Salk insertion lines, TILLING lines, and the as1-1 mutant were ordered from the ABRC (stock numbers: as1, CS3374; saw1, SALK_009120; saw1-2, CS87673; saw2-1, SALK_121117; and saw2-2, SALK_149402). The genotypes of the saw1 and saw2 mutants and any double mutants generated were confirmed by PCR-based genotyping. Plants were grown as previously described (CITATION; CITATION) and transformed using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION). The amino acid sequences for the BLH proteins were aligned using the ClustalX program (CITATION, CITATION) with default alignment parameters except for the protein matrix, for which BLOSUM62 (CITATION) was used. To construct the phylogram based on the maximum likelihood method (CITATION), the aligned sequences were imported into Bioedit for manual editing (CITATION; http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/BioEdit/bioedit.html). Three highly conserved regions were identified (see Supplemental Figure 1A online), and these regions were selected for further analysis. The alignment of the conserved sequences was bootstrapped 1000 times using SEQBOOT (from PHYLIP version 3.6, distributed by J. Felsenstein, University of Washington, Seattle). The program Phyml (CITATION; CITATION) was then used to generate maximum likelihood–based trees for both bootstrapped and nonbootstrapped data sets. The trees were visualized using Treeview (R. Page; http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html) and processed with IrfanView (I. Skiljan; http://www.irfanview.com/) and Photoshop (Adobe Systems), where the bootstrap values were converted to 100 and added to the tree branches. cDNA was synthesized by RT using Superscript II RT (Invitrogen) and 1 μg of total RNA isolated from required organs of the mutants or the wild type. PCR was performed using 1 μL of cDNA as template and Taq DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Primers were as follows: BEL1, p1 5′-CACAAGTCACCACAGCAACA-3′/p2 5′-TGCTTGAATCTGTCCCACAA-3′; SAW1, p1 5′-CAGCGGGAATCTCTTCTTCC-3′/p2 5′-TGGATTTTGTGCTCTTGTCG-3′; SAW2, p1 5′-CCATTGGAGGGATCTACACG-3′/p2 5′-ATCCCCTAGAAGCTCACAGC-3′; BP, p1 5′-CGATGTTGAAGCCATGAAGG-3′/p2 5′-GCTGTTGTCGAGCCTCAAAG-3′; KNAT2, p1 5′-CGCGTATTCGAAAAGCTGAG-3′/p2 5′-CATGGTTCTCTCGCTGAATCTC-3′; KNAT6, p1 5′-AAATCGCTTGTCATCCTTCG-3′/p2 5′-TCACTCTCCCGTTGAATCTCC-3′; STM, p1 5′-CAACCCTTGCTCCTCTTCC-3′/p2 5′-CCTGTTGGTCCCATAGATGC-3′. Either GAPC (CITATION) or ACTIN8 (CITATION) was used as a loading control. These genes were amplified using the following primer pairs: GAPC p1 5′-TGGGGAGACATTCTTGCTG-3′/p2 5′-GATGGGCTTGTGTGTGTTTG-3′; ACT8 p1 5′-TGTGACAATGGTACTGGAATGG-3′/p2 5′-TTGGATTGTGCTTCATCACC-3′. All PCR reactions were repeated at least three times, and the PCR cycle numbers were adjusted to ensure that the amplification was in the logarithmic phase. The PCR products were resolved in a 1% agarose gel and stained with ethidium bromide. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed in the MJ MinipOticon real-time PCR system (Bio-Rad Laboratories) using iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Each real-time PCR experiment was done in triplicate, and the graph was generated from the pooled data of two independent experiments. For all constructs made during this project, PCR fragments were amplified using Expand High-Fidelity polymerase (Roche; according to the manufacturer's protocol) from Col-2 genomic DNA isolated as described (CITATION). For the promoter-GUS constructs, the promoter regions of BEL1, SAW1, and SAW2, including the 5′ untranslated region, were amplified using the following gene-specific primers: BEL1, p1 5′-GAATTCCAATCTCTTTCACGTACTGTGCG-3′/p2 5′-GGATCCTGTCTCTCAAGAATTGAAAACCC-3′; SAW1, p1 5′-TTAGTCGACAAAGATTCCCACATGGTGTC-3′/p2 5′-TATCTCGAGGTTATTCCCATATCAATACTTCAATC-3′; SAW2, p1 5′-ATTATGAATTCTTGCAACCACCATTGAAGAG-3′/p2 5′-ATTATCTCGAGCAAAGCTCTTGGATCCTGTAAG-3′. The BEL1 promoter was cloned into pCR 2.1 blunt (Invitrogen) and then introduced into pBAR1 (a gift from Ben Holt and Doug Boyes, Dangl Lab, University of North Carolina) containing GUS that we subcloned from pBI101 (Clontech Laboratories). SAW1 and SAW2 promoters were cloned into pENTR1A (Invitrogen) and then subcloned into pGWB3 (a gift from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Research Institute of Molecular Genetics, Shimane University, Japan) by the Gateway LR recombination reaction (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's directions. GUS histochemical assays were done on freshly isolated plant organs or whole seedlings using a protocol that was adapted for staining Arabidopsis (CITATION). For whole mounts, stained tissues were destained by incubation in 70% ethanol overnight at room temperature. The destained samples were either directly viewed under a light microscope (Zeiss Axioskop microscope) or incubated in clearing solution (chloral hydrate:glycerol:water, 9:1:3 [w:v:v]; CITATION) for 1 h to 4 d depending on the organ being cleared (ovules start clearing within an hour and leaves take 2 to 4 d) and photographed under the compound microscope or dissecting photomicroscope. For resin embedding and sectioning, the stained samples were fixed with 3% glutaraldehyde (Canemco) in 0.5 M sodium phosphate buffer at 4°C overnight and then dehydrated through an ethanol series and embedded in Technovit 8100 resin based on the manufacturer's instructions (Heraeus Kulzer; Electron Microscopy Sciences, distributor). Embedded tissue was sectioned using a glass microtome. Sections were spread on glass slides and mounted with Entellan (Merck). The samples were then visualized under a light microscope and photographed using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments). The photographs were processed using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). GUS activity was quantified in crude protein extracts from stem internodes (the first two internodes from the base) and inflorescence apices (including the region from inflorescence meristem to the first open flower) from 5-week-old wild-type (Col-0), BP:GUS Col-0, and BP:GUS saw1 saw2 plants using the 4-methylumbelliferyl β-d-glucuronide fluorometric assay (CITATION). Protein concentrations were quantified against a BSA standard curve using the Bio-Rad protein microassay according to the manufacturer's instructions. The concentration of the hydrolysis product, 4-methylumbelliferone (MU), in each aliquot was measured using a Finstruments Fluoroskan plate reader (Thermo Electron/Labsystems; excitation at 365 ± 7 nm; emission at 460 ± 15 nm) at 0 h, 30 min, and 1 h and reported as absolute fluorescence units. The amount of MU produced by each sample was determined in comparison with an MU standard curve. Expand high-fidelity polymerase (Roche) was used to amplify a wild-type genomic fragment containing the SAW2 coding sequence (including introns), as well as 3000 kb of the 5′ and 1000 kb of the 3′ sequence, using the primers 5′-TTCGCGGCCGCTGCTATTTCAAGGACGTGAGC-3′ and 5′-CTAGCGGCCGCATTGTGACTTATTGGCGCTTTCC-3′. Genomic DNA isolated by the method of CITATION from leaves of wild-type plants was used as a template for PCR. The PCR-generated fragment was cloned directly into the NotI site of the pART27 binary vector (CITATION). This construct was used to transform it into saw1 saw2 double mutant plants. We then evaluated selected transformants for complementation of the mutant phenotypes. A GAL4-based yeast two-hybrid system was used as described previously (CITATION). Plasmid constructs were generated by cloning full-length cDNAs into either the GAL4 DNA binding domain (DB) plasmid pBI-770 as the bait or the GAL4 transcriptional activation domain (TA) plasmid pBI-771 as the prey. Full-length SAW1 and BLH1 cDNAs were amplified from plasmids (obtained by screening flower-specific cDNA libraries) using the Expand high-fidelity PCR system (Invitrogen). The PCR product was digested with SalI and NotI and cloned into pBI-771 to create TA-SAW1 and TA-BLH1. Construction of TA-BEL1, all the DB-KNOX, and DB-Cruciferin has been described earlier (CITATION). The bait and prey constructs were transformed into the yeast strain YPB2 (CITATION), and interacting transformants were selected on medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His. The interactions were further visualized using X-Gal filter assays that were performed as described previously (CITATION). Tissue fixation, sectioning, hybridization, and signal detection were performed as described previously (CITATION). Full-length SAW1 cDNA was amplified from the TA-SAW1 construct (described earlier) and was used for probe preparation. Sections were viewed through a light microscope (Zeiss Axioskop II) and photographed under bright-field conditions using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments). Approximately 10 μg of RNA isolated from leaves of as1, 35S:SAW1, and 35S:SAW1 as1 plants was resolved in a denaturing agarose gel and blotted onto a nylon membrane as previously described (CITATION). The membrane was then hybridized with a 32P-labeled BP probe and detected as previously described (CITATION), and the specific signal was detected with a Storm 860 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). Full-length SAW1 cDNA was amplified by PCR from wild-type cDNA using the primers 5′-GCCTCTAGATGGAATAACTAAAACTTC-3′ and 5′-GCTCTAGACTAAAACCCCCAAACTC-3′. The resulting fragment was cut with XbaI and cloned into pGPTV pBAR (CITATION) with a tandem 35S promoter with an AMV leader sequence (M. Bellaoui and G.W. Haughn, unpublished results) and transformed into Col-2 plants as described earlier. All macroscopic images were either taken using a Nikon CoolPix camera or were scanned using an HP Scanjet 7400c (Hewlett Packard). Micrographs were taken using a dissection or compound microscope equipped with a Spot digital camera and Northern Eclipse software. Adobe Photoshop was used for image processing and the creation of montages. To measure lengths of leaf serrations, leaves were scanned using a Canoscan 8400DF scanner (Canon). Scanned images were converted to gray scale, and threshold was adjusted to include only the leaves. Measurements were made using ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) calibrated with a scanned ruler. To evaluate cells of the 35S:SAW1 plants, epidermis was peeled from the bottom three internodes of stems of 5-week-old plants and mounted in 50% glycerol on glass slides. Cell counts and measurements were made using phase contrast optics of a compound light microscope. The GenBank accession numbers and Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI) locus identifiers of the SAW genes are as follows: BLH2/SAW1, AF173816 (GenBank), At4g36870 (AGI locus); BLH4/SAW2, AF353092 (GenBank), At2g23760 (AGI locus). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Conservation and Duplication in the BLH Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. RT-PCR Analysis of BEL1, SAW1, and SAW2. Supplemental Figure 3. Complementation of saw1 saw2 Double Mutants by a SAW2 Genomic DNA Fragment. Supplemental Figure 4. Increased BP:GUS Activity in Stems of saw1 saw2 Double Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. RT-PCR Analysis of SAW1. Supplemental Figure 6. The saw1 saw2 bp Triple Mutant Phenotype. Supplemental Figure 7. RT-PCR Analysis of Class 1 KNOX Gene Expression. Supplemental Figure 8. Real-Time PCR Analysis of Class1 KNOX Genes. Supplemental Figure 9. RNA Gel Blot Comparing SAW1 Expression in Wild-Type and 35S:SAW1 Plants.
