!~ABS~! In response to wounding and pathogens, jasmonate (JA) serves as a signal molecule for both induction and repression of gene expression. To examine defense-regulated gene repression in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), we have identified a nonclassical arabinogalactan protein (AGP) gene, AGP31, and show that its mRNA decreased to about 30% of its original level within 8 h in response to methyl JA (MeJA) treatment of whole 7-d-old seedlings. Wounding and abscisic acid treatment had similar effects. MeJA suppression primarily depends on the action of the JA-signaling protein, COI1, as shown by much lower MeJA suppression in coi1-1 mutant plants. The main mechanism of mRNA suppression by MeJA is repression of transcription, as shown by nuclear run-on experiments. The AGP31 protein shares features with several known and putative nonclassical AGPs from other species: a putative signal peptide, a histidine-rich region near the N terminus followed by a repetitive proline-rich domain, and a cysteine-rich C-terminal PAC (for proline-rich protein and AGP, containing cysteine) domain. Positive Yariv reagent interaction demonstrated that the protein is an AGP. Monosaccharide analysis of purified AGP31 indicated it is a galactose-rich AGP. Expression of an AGP31-enhanced green fluorescent protein fusion protein in transgenic cells revealed that the AGP31 protein was localized to the cell wall. AGP31 promoter-β-glucuronidase reporter gene analysis showed expression in the vascular bundle throughout the plant, except in the flower. In the flower, β-glucuronidase staining occurred throughout the pistil, except in the stigma. The strong preferential expression in vascular tissues suggests that AGP31 may be involved in vascular tissue function during both the defense response and development.
!~RES~! A BLASTP search was conducted to identify Arabidopsis proteins with features and protein organization similar to the French bean PvPRP1 protein, including low Tyr content (generally <5%). The gene with the greatest similarity throughout the encoded protein length was At1g28290. Using reverse transcription-PCR, we obtained a cDNA clone spanning the complete open reading frame of At1g28290. DNA sequencing confirmed the annotation of At1g28290 (http://www.arabidopsis.org). At1g28290 has one intron and a 208-nucleotide 3′-untranslated region (UTR) deduced from the cDNA sequence. At1g28290 encodes a 359-amino acid Pro-rich protein with four distinct domains: a putative signal peptide followed by a His-rich domain, a middle repetitive Pro-rich domain, and a C-terminal non-Pro-rich domain (Fig. 1A ). In the Pro-rich domain, there are only five types of amino acids, with 45.9% Pro, 18.2% Lys, 15.7% Val, 6.3% Ala, and 3.8% Tyr. These amino acids form different exact repeat units. There are two long repeats with 31 amino acids overlapping with four shorter 20-amino acid repeats (Fig. 1A). These repeats are essentially composed of different variants of the basic repeat unit PP(A/V/T)(K/Y). This degenerate quadripeptide is different from the typical pentapeptide PPVX(K/T) of other PRPs, such as several AtPRPs in Arabidopsis (CITATION) and ENOD11 in Medicago (CITATION), and is characteristic of a class of nonclassical AGPs and AGP-like proteins. Also in common with these proteins, the At1g28290 protein has a C-terminal region with six well-conserved Cys residues that has been named PAC (for PRP and AGP, containing Cys; CITATION). This domain also exists in the OLE E 1 pollen allergen in olive (Olea europa). [[FIGURE]] The protein sequence of At1g28290 suggested that it may encode a nonclassical AGP. Preceding the His-rich domain, there is a module APAPAP and there are six single AP duplets scattered in the PRP domain (Fig. 1A). Increasing evidence suggests that these AP modules are sites of carbohydrate attachment in AGPs (CITATION). In addition to these putative O-glycosylation sites, there are two putative N-glycosylation sites in the PAC region (Fig. 1A). Based on these analyses, we postulated that this protein might be a nonclassical AGP. Further supporting evidence was provided using the PAC domain sequence to BLAST the GenBank database. This identified several putative homologs among different species. Among these putative homologs, we searched for proteins that have similar structure: predicted signal sequence, N-terminal His-rich stretch, a Pro-rich region with the repeat PPXX, and a PAC domain. After applying these criteria, we identified several proteins, PvPRP1 (French bean), HyPRP1 (cotton [Gossypium hirsutum]), DcAGP1 (carrot [Daucus carota]), NaPRP4, NtTTS1, and NtTTS2 (tobacco), which we consider to be homologs of At1g28290 (Fig. 1B). Among these homologs, DcAGP1, NaPRP4, NtTTS1, and NtTTS2 have been shown to be bona fide nonclassical AGPs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In the Arabidopsis genome, there are two genes, AtAGP30 and At2g34700, showing similarity with At1g28290. AtAGP30 (CITATION) shows the highest similarity with At1g28290 but it has no His-rich domain. At2g34700 has only the PAC domain without His- and Pro-rich domains. Based on these analyses, we concluded that At1g28290 is the only gene in this nonclassical AGP subclass in the Arabidopsis genome. To determine whether At1g28290 is a bona fide AGP, we used the 35S promoter to overexpress the At1g28290 protein fused with a 6×-myc tag at the C-terminal end in transgenic plants. A cell wall fraction was isolated from 7-d-old seedlings. Proteins released by high salt extraction of this fraction were incubated with β-glucosyl Yariv reagent, a compound that selectively precipitates AGPs. Western-blot analysis of the AGP fraction using an anti-myc antibody detected the fusion protein and an endogenous, nonspecific 50-kD protein (Fig. 1C). This result demonstrates that At1g28290 is a bona fide AGP. The myc fusion protein detected by the antibody ran by SDS-PAGE as a broad high-molecular-mass band of about 170 to 200 kD, whereas the predicted molecular mass of the mature At1g28290 protein alone is 38 kD. In addition to this experiment, we isolated the myc fusion protein from the high-salt cell wall protein fraction by nickel nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Ni-NTA) affinity purification, capitalizing on the fact that there is a His-rich stretch near the N terminus of At1g28290. The resulting enriched protein fraction spotted on nitrocellulose stained positively with Yariv reagent (data not shown). Based on these analyses, we concluded that At1g28290 encodes a nonclassical AGP and named it AGP31. To examine its carbohydrate composition and likely hydroxylation of Pro residues, we purified native AGP31 protein from transgenic plants overexpressing native AGP31. Transgenic lines were generated by introducing a genomic fragment that contains about 3 kb upstream of translation start codon and about 700 bp downstream of the translation stop codon of the AGP31 gene. Due to the nature of Agrobacterium transformation, multiple copies of fragments are frequently introduced into plants and can exhibit higher mRNA levels. Plants of a transgenic line that showed a higher mRNA level than wild type grown in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium were used to isolate the high-salt eluted cell wall protein. AGP31 was purified by a Ni-NTA metal affinity column from high-salt eluted cell wall protein and an aliquot subjected to trifluoromethanesulfonic (TFMS) acid hydrolysis, a treatment that removes the majority of carbohydrate in glycoproteins. The Coomassie Blue-stained gel showed that acid hydrolysis resulted in a dramatic shift from the broad high-molecular-mass band to a single prominent band of 45 kD in the deglycosylated sample (Fig. 1D). It is noteworthy that the innermost Asn-linked N-acetylglucosamine of an N-linked oligosaccharide is resistant to TFMS treatment (CITATION). The observed higher than predicted molecular mass migration may be due to nonuniform association of SDS with HRGP as suggested by others (CITATION; CITATION) and possibly some residual N-linked sugars. The identity of the band was identified by matrix-assisted laser-desorption time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS), which covered 61% of the AGP31 amino acid sequence. No other protein was identified by MALDI-TOF MS from the single band. Together, these findings demonstrate that AGP31 is a glycoprotein and that a highly purified preparation of AGP31 has been obtained. Amino acid composition analysis of purified, deglycosylated AGP31 showed approximately equal amounts of Pro and Hyp (Table I ). Another nonclassical AGP, NaPRP4, which is the homolog of AGP31 in Nicotiana alata, also has about equal amounts of Pro and Hyp (CITATION). Monosaccharide composition analysis showed that purified AGP31 contains mostly Gal (80.9%), with lesser amounts of Ara (13.5%), Xyl (2.1%), Fuc (1.3%), and Man (1.3%; Table II ). In addition, very low amounts of Glc (0.5%) and GlcUA (0.5%) were detected. Again, AGP31 is very similar to NaPRP4, which has a glycosyl composition of 83% Gal, 6.8% Ara, 3.5% Xyl, and 1.5% Man (CITATION). Besides AGP31's interaction with the Yariv reagent, glycosyl composition analysis provided independent confirmation that AGP31 is an AGP. Amino acid composition of AGP31 Monosaccharide composition of AGP31 To investigate AGP31 gene expression during the defense response, the leaves of 4-week-old plants were mechanically wounded and directly wounded leaves were harvested at various times. RNA-blot analysis shows a decrease in AGP31 mRNA level over the 8-h time course (Fig. 2A ). The 1.35-kb size of the AGP31 transcript matches the expected size based on the cDNA sequence. The GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASE1 (GST1) transcript was also hybridized as a known wounding-induced mRNA, whereas the UBIQUITIN10 (UBQ10) transcript was monitored to show equal loading. Because JA and its derivatives are well-known secondary messengers induced by wounding, we also examined the effect of MeJA. MeJA treatment resulted in a decrease in AGP31 mRNA to about 30% of the original level by 8 h (Fig. 2B). After 12 h, the AGP31 mRNA level began to recover but remained below its original level through the 24-h time course. In contrast, control plants treated with the solvent exhibited only a slight decrease in AGP31 mRNA. The marked induction of LIPOXYGENASE2 (LOX2) mRNA, a known MeJA-regulated mRNA, demonstrated effective MeJA exposure. Control plants treated with solvent showed low-level induction of LOX2 mRNA, especially at early time points. However, compared with MeJA-treated plants, the response was much lower and diminished after 4 h. [[FIGURE]] ABA has been shown to be involved in some plant defense responses and is widely active in the response to water stress and other abiotic stresses. To determine the expression pattern of AGP31 mRNA in response to ABA, we treated seedlings with ABA and harvested after 8 h. Northern-blot analysis showed that AGP31 mRNA was also repressed by ABA treatment (Fig. 2C). COI1 has been shown to play a pivotal role in JA signaling. Based on microarray data, it has been estimated that about one-half of JA signaling involves the action of this protein, which encodes an F-box protein as part of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex (CITATION). Although slight repression was still observed, AGP31 mRNA repression in response to MeJA was dramatically reduced in the coi1-1 mutant compared to the response in wild-type plants, indicating the AGP31 mRNA repression is mainly dependent on the COI1 pathway (Fig. 3 ). Interestingly, the basal level of AGP31 mRNA is similar in untreated plants of both genetic backgrounds. [[FIGURE]] In French bean, repression of PvPRP1 mRNA is due to mRNA stability regulation with no change in the rate of transcription (CITATION). To evaluate these two parameters for AGP31 regulation, we performed a nuclear run-on assay to measure the transcription rate of the AGP31 gene after MeJA treatment. Because Arabidopsis cultured cells can provide a large quantity of homogeneous cells, the run-on assay was carried out with cultured cell nuclei. Figure 4A shows that MeJA treatment of cultured cells resulted in AGP31 mRNA repression similar to the response in whole plants. Nuclei from the same batches of cells were used for run-on transcription assays. The results show that AGP31 mRNA repression reflected decreased transcription rate (Fig. 4B). Moreover, the magnitude of transcription reduction (to about 30% of the original level) correlates well with the observed reduction in the steady-state mRNA level to approximately 30% of the original level. A known MeJA-induced gene, ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR1 (ERF1), showed increased transcription, whereas the rates of ACTIN2 and UBQ10 transcription were essentially unchanged. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether mRNA stability regulation may also play a role, the AGP31 3′-UTR was inserted downstream of a LUC+ reporter coding sequence. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation generally results in the concatenated insertion of several T-DNA copies at a single locus. To avoid possible generation of double-stranded RNAs and RNA interference processes that could variously impact the steady-state mRNA levels, transgenic plants were screened to identify single-copy insertions by Southern blot as described by CITATION. Analysis of three lines of transgenic plants containing single-copy insertions showed that the LUC+ reporter mRNA level remained approximately constant in MeJA-treated plants, whereas the endogenous AGP31 and LOX2 mRNAs showed expected regulation (Fig. 5 ). The results suggest that MeJA-induced down-regulation of AGP31 mRNA does not involve mRNA destabilization through the 3′-UTR sequence. Whereas mRNA stability regulation commonly operates through the 3′-UTR (CITATION), the evidence does not rule out a role for another part of the transcript or the 3′-UTR plus another sequence in conferring MeJA-induced mRNA stability regulation. Together with the run-on data, our results support predominant regulation by repression of transcription. [[FIGURE]] AGP31 protein is predicted to be a cell wall or secreted protein based on its putative signal sequence and past findings of these locations for numerous AGPs. To establish the subcellular localization of AGP31, enhanced GFP (eGFP) was fused to the C-terminal end of AGP31 to form an AGP31∷eGFP fusion construct under the control of the 35S promoter. The constructs were stably expressed in Arabidopsis transgenic plants and also bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells to express the fusion protein transiently. Figure 6, A and B , shows confocal microscope views of the same root section from stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The eGFP signal indicated that the fusion protein was localized to the cell periphery (Fig. 6, A and B). In bombarded onion epidermal cells, the eGFP-alone construct showed intracellular localization, including a commonly observed presence in the nuclei (Fig. 6, C and D). To distinguish between cell wall and cell membrane locations, the transiently transformed cells were treated with 0.8 m mannitol to induce plasmolysis. As shown in Figure 6E, mannitol treatment effectively contracted the plasma membrane from the cell periphery in a cell that expressed eGFP alone. The corresponding fluorescence image (Fig. 6F) showed that eGFP fluorescence was also contracted with the cytoplasm. In contrast, in a plasmolyzed transgenic cell expressing the AGP31-eGFP fusion protein, a significant portion of the fusion protein was found at the cell periphery (Fig. 6H), indicating cell wall localization. Some fusion protein was also seen more faintly inside the cell and at the plasma membrane, which would be consistent with intermediate locations of the protein during its biogenesis. The AGP31-myc fusion protein was also highly enriched in the high-salt elution fraction from partially purified cell walls (data not shown). In work from other researchers, AGP31 was also identified in a cell wall proteomics study (CITATION) and this is consistent with our data indicating that AGP31 is a cell wall protein. [[FIGURE]] Toward understanding the biological function of this protein during defense and normal development, we characterized the AGP31 mRNA expression level in roots, leaves, stems, and inflorescences of Arabidopsis plants. RNA-blot analysis showed that AGP31 mRNA was expressed in all parts of the plant, with the roots and inflorescences having the highest expression levels (Fig. 7A ). To determine the expression pattern of the AGP31 gene more precisely, we made transgenic plants harboring the bacterial uidA gene (GUS) under the control of a 1.4-kb fragment extending upstream from the AGP31 start codon. This construct is termed the AGP31 promoter-GUS reporter construct (PAGP31∷GUS). The GUS expression pattern based on histochemical staining for GUS activity revealed that the AGP31 promoter-GUS reporter gene was predominantly expressed in the vascular bundles throughout the plants (Fig. 7, B–F). In flowers, apart from staining vascular bundles in sepals and stamen filaments, GUS was also expressed throughout pistils, except for stigmas (Fig. 7C). In roots, GUS stain was predominant in vascular bundles without appearance in the root tip regions (Fig. 7, D and E). Cross section of the root showed GUS activity was broadly distributed through the vascular bundle, including the phloem and primary xylem (Fig. 7F). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown on agar plates with 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% Suc, and 0.8% phytoagar (Bio World) under continuous light at 20°C to 23°C. The wild-type plant is ecotype Columbia. The coi1-1 mutant was a gift from Dr. J.G. Turner (University of East Anglia). Arabidopsis cell culture was obtained from Dr. W.F. Thompson (North Carolina State University). The cell wall fractions were isolated from 8-g 11-d seedlings according to CITATION, with some modifications. Briefly, plants were ground into powder in liquid nitrogen and extracted with 2 volumes of extraction buffer (5 mm sodium acetate, pH 4.0, 0.4 m Suc with Roche protease inhibitor cocktail, 0.1 g polyvinylpolypyrrolidone/g tissue) at 4°C for 30 min. Extracts were centrifuged at 1,000g for 15 min at 4°C. After removing the supernatant, pellets were sequentially washed with 5 mm sodium acetate, pH 4.0, with 0.6 m Suc and 1 m Suc, respectively. Finally, pellets were washed with 5 mm sodium acetate (at least five times) and considered to be the cell wall fraction. AGPs were isolated from high-salt eluted cell wall proteins according to CITATION with some modifications. The high-salt eluted cell wall proteins were extracted by incubating the cell wall fraction with high-salt extraction buffer (5 mm sodium acetate, pH 4.0, 1 m sodium chloride, protease inhibitor) at 4°C for 30 min. Then the samples were centrifuged at 5,000g for 15 min at 4°C, the supernatants were transferred to new tubes and dialyzed against water overnight at 4°C. The dialyzed cell wall proteins were freeze dried and dissolved in 1 mL 1% sodium chloride. To isolate the AGP fraction from cell wall protein, Yariv reagent was added to the cell wall protein at 1 mg/mL and incubated at 4°C overnight. To collect the Yariv-AGP complex, mixtures were centrifuged at 10,000g for 1 h at 4°C. The resulting pellets were washed three times with 1% sodium chloride and once with methanol. After air drying at room temperature, pellets were dissolved in minimal dimethyl sulfoxide. To release AGP from Yariv reagent, water and sodium hydrosulfite were added until the solution became pale yellow. Solutions were then dialyzed against water overnight at 4°C and freeze dried. Finally, AGP fractions were dissolved in water and concentrations were determined by gel diffusion assay using gum arabic as standard (CITATION). To isolate native AGP31, a transgenic plant overexpressing native AGP31 was generated by transforming plants with Agrobacterium carrying an EcoRI and HindIII genomic fragment from bacterial artificial chromosome F3H6 (obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource). This fragment contains 3,130 bp upstream of AGP31 translation start codon and 701 bp downstream of AGP31 translation stop codon, respectively. A transgenic plant overexpressing AGP31 was used to isolate native AGP31. Plants were grown in Murashige and Skoog liquid medium supplemented with 1% Suc and full-strength Murashige and Skoog vitamins (CITATION). Thirty-gram plants were used to isolate cell wall protein as described above. The high-salt eluted cell wall protein was dialyzed against water overnight. One-tenth volume of lysis buffer (100 mm NaH2PO4, pH 8.0, 500 mm imidozone, 3 m NaCl) was added to the cell wall protein fraction. AGP31 was isolated from cell wall protein by a Ni-NTA column (Ni-NTA Fast Start kit; Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions. Finally, isolated AGP31 was dialyzed against water and concentrated by Amicon Ultra-15 (Millipore). Isolated AGP31 was deglycosylated by the TFMS acid method using the Glyco-Profile IV kit (Sigma). Deglycosylated AGP31 and native AGP31 were separated by SDS-PAGE on 15% Tris-Gly gel. Protein bands were excised from Coomassie Blue-stained gel and digested by trypsin. MALDI-TOF MS was carried out by the core facility service of the University of Texas at Austin to identify the protein bands. Amino acid analysis was carried out by AAA Service Laboratory as described (CITATION; CITATION). Monosaccharide composition analysis was carried out by the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center as described (CITATION). AGP (7.5 μg) from wild-type and transgenic plants was loaded on 4% to 15% gradient gel and blotted to nitrocellulose membrane (Bio-Rad) by a semidry transfer unit (Bio-Rad). Membranes were blocked in 5% bovine serum albumin in phosphate-buffered saline + 0.5% Triton 100. The primary antibody, anti-myc polyclonal antibody (Sigma), was diluted 1:1,000, and the secondary antibody was diluted 1:25,000. The signal was captured using the enhanced chemiluminescent method following the manufacturer's instructions (Pierce). Four-week-old plants grown in soil were used for wounding treatment. About one-third of the leaves were pressed with pliers and only wounded leaves were used for RNA extraction. For MeJA treatment, 11-d-old plants grown vertically in standard agar plates (0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% Suc, and 0.8% phyto agar) were sprayed with 500 μm MeJA or transferred to 50 μm MeJA plates (0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% Suc, and 0.8% phyto agar, 50 μm MeJA). For ABA treatment, 11-d-old plants were transferred to 10 μm ABA plates (0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% Suc, and 0.8% phyto agar, 10 μm ABA). After treatment for the indicated times, whole plants were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was isolated from plant and cell culture samples according the protocol of CITATION. Ten micrograms of total RNA were separated on 1.2% formaldehyde agarose gels and blotted to ζ-probe (Bio-Rad) membranes. Blots were hybridized following the manufacturer's instructions. Probes were amplified by PCR from genomic DNA or reverse-transcribed cDNA and labeled by the DECAprime II kit (Ambion). Signals were quantitated by the National Institutes of Health ImageJ program. Nuclei were isolated from 10-g Arabidopsis cell culture according to the previously described protocol (CITATION). Nuclei in vitro transcription was carried out using 50 μL nuclei in a 100-μL reaction with 100 mm NH4SO4, 5 mm MgCl2, 500 μm ATP, GTP, and CTP, 30 μm UTP, 20 μL α-32P-UTP (3,000 Ci/mmol, 10 μCi/μL; Perkin-Elmer), and 80 units RNAsin (Promega). The mixture was incubated at 30°C for 30 min. The reaction was stopped by extracting the reaction using the RNA extraction buffer used in RNA isolation. Subsequently, labeled RNA was extracted as total RNA isolation. Five micrograms of linearized plasmid DNAs were blotted onto a ζ-probe membrane using a BIO DOT apparatus (Bio-Rad). Membranes were prehybridized in 50% formamide, 7% SDS, 0.25 m NaCl, 0.125 m phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, for 1 h, then membranes were hybridized at 42°C in the same solution with 1 × 106 cpm/mL in vitro-transcribed RNA overnight. Blots were then sequentially washed with 2× SSC/0.1% SDS, 0.5× SSC/0.1% SDS, and 0.1× SSC/0.1% SDS. Finally, blots were wrapped in parafilm and exposed to the phosphor screen for 48 h. Signals were quantitated by the National Institutes of Health ImageJ program. 35S∷GFP was generated by cloning the eGFP coding region into the KpnI and BamHI sites of pCHF3. 35S∷AGP31∷eGFP was generated by cloning the eGFP coding region into the BamHI site of 35S∷AGP31∷myc to replace the 6×-myc fragment. Constructs were bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cell using a PDS-1,000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) as described (CITATION). After bombardment, cells were incubated for 18 h in the dark at room temperature before being examined under the microscope. About 1.4 kb upstream of the translation start site of the AGP31 promoter were amplified by PCR from genomic DNA using primers 5′-CCAGAATTCGCAATTACGCTCAAAGTCTCC-3′ and 5′-CGCGAGCTCTTTGTTTTGTTTTTGGGTTA-3′ and cloned into EcoRI and SacI sites of binary vector pCHF3 (CITATION) to replace the 35S promoter in pCHF3. The resulting construct is called PAGP31-pCHF3. Then, a BamHI-XbaI fragment containing the GUS coding region from PKYLX71 (CITATION; CITATION) was cloned into the PAGP31-pCHF3 to generate the construct harboring AGP31 promoter∷GUS (PAGP31∷GUS). For the 35S∷AGP31∷myc fusion protein construct, the cDNA of AGP31 was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-CCCGGTACCATGGGTTTCATTGGTAAGA-3′ and 5′-TTTGGATCCTTTGGGGCAAGACGG-3′ from cDNA to remove the stop codon and cloned into KpnI and BamHI sites of pCHF3, then a fragment encoding 6×-myc was cloned in frame to the C terminus of the AGP31 at the BamHI site. The UBQ10 promoter was amplified from genomic DNA using primers 5′-TTTAGATCTGAATTCTGTCCCGACGGTGGTGT-3′ and 5′-CGTCCATGGCTTGATCACGGTAGAGAGAATT-3′. The UBQ10 promoter∷Luc+∷AGP31-3′-UTR construct was made by cloning the UBQ10 promoter and the 208-bp 3′-UTR of AGP31 in front of and behind the luciferase coding region (Promega), respectively. All construct sequences were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Constructs were transformed into plants using the floral-dip method (CITATION). The GUS staining procedure was carried out as described in CITATION.
