!~ABS~! In plants, cell polarity and tissue patterning are connected by intercellular flow of the phytohormone auxin, whose directional signaling depends on polar subcellular localization of PIN auxin transport proteins. The mechanism of polar targeting of PINs or other cargos in plants is largely unidentified, with the PINOID kinase being the only known molecular component. Here, we identify PP2A phosphatase as an important regulator of PIN apical-basal targeting and auxin distribution. Genetic analysis, localization, and phosphorylation studies demonstrate that PP2A and PINOID both partially colocalize with PINs and act antagonistically on the phosphorylation state of their central hydrophilic loop, hence mediating PIN apical-basal polar targeting. Thus, in plants, polar sorting by the reversible phosphorylation of cargos allows for their conditional delivery to specific intracellular destinations. In the case of PIN proteins, this mechanism enables switches in the direction of intercellular auxin fluxes, which mediate differential growth, tissue patterning, and organogenesis.
!~RES~! To identify a possible phosphatase component of the mechanism responsible for PIN polar targeting, we analyzed the three closely related regulatory A subunits of the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) complex in Arabidopsis - PP2AA1, PP2AA2 and PP2AA3. We focused preferentially on the PP2A class since a loss-of-function mutation in one of the A regulatory subunits (PP2AA1), called ROOT CURLING ON NPA1 (RCN1) causes various developmental defects, some of which are in processes governed by auxin transport (CITATION). We analyzed the expression pattern of PP2AA genes using PP2AA1::GUS, PP2AA2::GUS, PP2AA3::GUS and PP2AA1::PP2AA1:GFP fusions. Analysis of seedlings 4 and 8 days after germination (dag) revealed high and overlapping transcriptional activity for all three genes (CITATIONA–S1D in the CITATION available with this article online). In the root, PP2AA1 was expressed in the whole root tip, PP2AA2 prominently in the elongation zone and columella root cap, and PP2AA3 more restricted to the columella root cap ( CITATIONA). These overlapping expression patterns of PP2AAs have been confirmed by analysis of global transcription data (http://www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress) and are in accordance with previous reports (CITATION). To test the requirement of PP2AA activities for plant development, we isolated and analyzed phenotypes of pp2aa1, pp2aa2 and pp2aa3 double and triple mutant combinations. In line with previous observations (CITATION), the pp2aa2 and pp2aa3 single mutants, and pp2aa2 pp2aa3 double mutants showed largely normal development (data not shown), but double-mutant combinations that included the pp2aa1 suffered from increasingly severe developmental aberrations (CITATIONB). Both pp2aa1 pp2aa2/+ and pp2aa1 pp2aa3/+ mutants displayed defects in root growth and root gravity response (n = 90) (CITATIONA and S2B). Also homozygous seedlings for pp2aa1 pp2aa2 and pp2aa1 pp2aa3 showed identical but more severe defects (CITATIONA and CITATIONC). Primary root meristems typically collapsed at 6-8 dag (76% for pp2aa1 pp2aa2, n = 40; 80% for pp2aa1 pp2aa3, n = 50) as evident from the disturbance of proper patterning and lack of columella-specific lugol staining (CITATIONL). During subsequent development, initiation of numerous lateral roots substituted for a defective primary root (CITATIOND). About 30% (n = 90) of pp2aa1-containing double-mutant seedlings showed defects in cotyledon development. These included collar-shaped or fused cotyledons (10%) as well as aberrant positioning and irregular numbers of cotyledons (19%) (CITATION; CITATIONC). Because pp2aa1 pp2aa2 pp2aa3 triple mutant seedlings were not recovered among progeny of pp2aa1 pp2aa2 pp2aa3/+ plants (n = 87), we constructed transgenic lines with estrogen (4-hydroxytamoxifen)-inducible overexpression of two different artificial microRNAs (amiRNAs) (CITATION) that simultaneously target all three PP2AA genes. In both amiRNA lines, we observed identical defects that were similar to but more severe than the phenotypes observed in pp2aa1 double mutants. These included root and cotyledon defects (CITATIONE), which resembled phenotypes seen in mutants compromised in auxin signaling (monopteros, CITATION) or auxin transport (pins, CITATION). Functional primary and lateral root meristems were not established (n = 120), causing arrest of further growth at the seedling stage (CITATIONE). These results extend previous findings (CITATION) that PP2A activity (as assessed by downregulation of its regulatory A subunits) is important for seedling development. Importantly, our additional analysis highlighted that some features of loss of PP2AA function phenotypes including root agravitropism, cotyledon defects and root meristem collapse resemble auxin transport-related defects (reviewed in CITATION) and in particular gain-of-function PID Ser/Thr kinase phenotypes (35S::PID, CITATION). The pronounced seedling patterning defects in pp2aa loss-of-function mutants suggested that PP2A activity is already required during embryo development. Analysis of PP2AA1,2,3::GUS embryos revealed transcriptional activity of all three genes from the 8-cell-stage onward. PP2AA1::GUS and PP2AA1::PP2AA1:GFP reporters showed strong expression throughout the whole embryo ( CITATIONA and 2B). Expression of the PP2AA2::GUS was similar but slightly weaker and PP2AA3::GUS was only weakly detectable (data not shown). Next, we analyzed the development of mutant embryos from pp2aa1 pp2aa2/+ and pp2aa1 pp2aa3/+ plants. These embryos showed identical strong developmental aberrations as early as at the preglobular stages (CITATIOND–2I). Affected embryos (70%, n = 80) displayed a range of defects, including root pole (68%) and cotyledon (36%) misspecifications (CITATIONG and 2H). The most severe cases were characterized by embryos lacking a clearly defined apical-basal axis (3%) (CITATIONI). All these embryonic phenotypes resemble those of embryos with defects in auxin transport (CITATION), or those observed in PID gain-of-function embryos (RPS5A > > PID; CITATION). Several of the phenotype features in pp2aa loss-of -function embryos and seedlings suggested defects in auxin transport-related processes as an underlying cause. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed local auxin distributions in various pp2aa mutant backgrounds using a reporter system based on the synthetic auxin-responsive promoter DR5 (CITATION), which can be employed for the in planta visualization of auxin activity gradients (CITATION; reviewed in CITATION). In globular and post-globular wild-type embryos, strong DR5 activity can be seen at the root pole (CITATIONJ) and at later stages at tips of developing cotyledons (CITATION). In embryos excised from DR5rev::GFP pp2aa1 pp2aa2/+ and DR5rev::GFP pp2aa1 pp2aa3/+ plants, we still observed the correct pattern of DR5 activity in about one-half of the analyzed embryos (56%, n = 80), but with reduced signal intensity (CITATIONL). In some embryos (18%), the DR5 activity maximum was misplaced (CITATIONK) whereas in others (26%) it was not detectable at all (data not shown). Next we examined the DR5 activity pattern in roots (CITATIONF–1H). We analyzed young (2.5 dag) pp2aa seedlings well before the collapse of the root meristem. In pp2aa1 pp2aa2/+ (CITATIONG) and pp2aa1 pp2aa3/+ (data not shown) root tips, the DR5 signal was strongly decreased. This reduction was even more pronounced in pp2aa1 pp2aa2 (data not shown) and pp2aa1 pp2aa3 (CITATIONH) double homozygous mutants. 53% (n = 40) of these roots showed strongly reduced DR5 intensity and in 20% the DR5 signal was not detectable at all. The observed changes in DR5 activity could be either due to alterations in auxin response or auxin distribution. To address this question, we treated pp2aa1 pp2aa2 and pp2aa1 pp2aa3 roots with the synthetic auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or the auxin transport inhibitor 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA). 2,4-D caused a comparable induction of DR5 in both wild-type and mutant roots, suggesting that auxin response is unaffected (CITATIONG–S2J). Notably, NPA did rescue the decrease in the DR5 expression and the root meristem collapse of the pp2aa1 double mutants (CITATIONF–1M), as previously observed for 35S::PID seedlings ( CITATIONA, 3F, and 3G; CITATION), indicating that the mutants are affected in auxin transport. To substantiate these observations, we assessed a possible defect in auxin transport of pp2aa mutants by monitoring auxin redistribution during gravity response. It is well established that the root gravitropic response is mediated by transport-dependent redistribution of auxin to the lower side of the responding root tip (e.g., CITATION). In contrast to wild-type roots, which all responded (100%, n = 25), only about 23% of pp2aa1 pp2aa2/+ and pp2aa1 pp2aa3/+ roots (total n = 48) showed weak relocation of the DR5 signal following gravistimulation (CITATIONC–S2F; not shown). In summary, these data suggest that PP2A activity is required for transport-dependent auxin distribution in embryos and seedling roots. The same phenotypes as those caused by loss of PP2AA function, including embryo patterning defects, agravitropic root growth and decreased DR5 activity in roots followed by meristem collapse have also been observed in PID kinase gain-of-function seedlings (CITATION). To test for genetic interactions between PID and PP2A, we introduced PID gain- and loss-of-function alleles (35S::PID and pid, respectively) into the pp2aa1 pp2aa3 background. pp2aa1 pp2aa3 35S::PID seedlings showed more severe phenotypes than either parental line (CITATIONB and 3C). Typically, the primary root meristem of 35S::PID seedlings collapses followed by essentially normal lateral root development (CITATION). In contrast, pp2aa1 pp2aa3 35S::PID plants (n = 36) failed to establish lateral root meristems and arrested growth as seedlings (CITATIONB and 3C). These defects were similar to those observed in amiRNA lines (see CITATIONE), in which all three PP2AA genes are downregulated. Conversely, the pid mutation partially suppressed pp2aa1 pp2aa3 double-mutant phenotypes. In pp2aa1 pp2aa3 pid mutant seedlings (n = 20), defects in root growth and root meristem maintenance, that are seen in pp2aa1 pp2aa3 double mutants, were rescued (CITATIONE and 3H). Nonetheless, additive phenotypes were observed in pp2aa1 pp2aa3 pid inflorescence axes (CITATIOND), suggesting additional, divergent roles of PID and PP2AA at later stages of above-ground development. Taken together, our genetic analysis strongly suggests that PP2AA Ser/Thr phosphatases and PID Ser/Thr kinase represent antagonistically acting regulators of embryo and root development. It has been suggested that PID kinase exerts its effect on polar auxin transport by controlling apical-basal targeting of the PIN auxin efflux carriers (CITATION). This prompted us to examine subcellular localization of PIN proteins in different pp2aa loss-of-function mutants. In pp2aa1 pp2aa2 and pp2aa1 pp2aa3 double-mutant embryos (total n = 45), the localization of PIN1 was impaired. Generally, basal (lower, root pole-facing) polarity of PIN1 localization was much less pronounced; in some cells a basal-to-apical polarity shift was detectable ( CITATIONA). Also, the polarity of the PIN4 protein was affected during embryo development (n = 57) occasionally resulting in a complete apicalization of signal (data not shown). During postembryonic development, polar localization of PIN proteins in roots of 2.5 dag seedlings was also affected in all pp2aa1 double-mutant combinations. PIN2, which in the wild-type localizes to the basal side of young cortical cells, changed its polarity to apical (upper, shoot apex-facing) in approximately 60% (n = 110) of pp2aa1 double-mutant roots, whereas the apical localization in the epidermis cells remained unaffected (CITATIONB). Similarly, PIN4, which is basally localized in proximal initials and daughter cells of the wild-type root meristem, shifted to the apical side in approximately 20% (n = 90) of pp2aa1 double-mutant roots (CITATIONC). Basal localization of PIN1 as observed in wild-type stele cells was also affected in pp2aa1 double-mutant roots. Although no complete apicalization of PIN1 localization was detectable, the subcellular polarity of PIN1 was less pronounced in these double mutants (data not shown). When activity of all three PP2AAs was decreased in tamoxifen-inducible amiRNA lines, a pronounced basal-to-apical shift of PIN1, PIN2 and PIN4 polarity could be observed following tamoxifen treatment (CITATIOND and data not shown). In control experiments, the same transgenic seedlings grown without tamoxifen (CITATIOND) as well as tamoxifen-treated transgenics harboring the empty T-DNA vector (data not shown) did not show changes in PIN polarity (CITATIOND). These data collectively show that loss of PP2AA function leads to a basal-to-apical shift in PIN polarity, a phenomenon identical to PIN polarity changes in PID gain-of-function plants. Furthermore, the observed reversal of basal PIN localization fully explains all observed auxin transport-related aspects of pp2aa mutant phenotypes. To obtain further insight into the potentially common action of PID and PP2A on PIN polar trafficking, we determined the subcellular localization of both proteins in PP2AA1::PP2AA1:GFP and PID::PID:YFP lines. For both constructs, functionality was demonstrated by complementation of the corresponding loss-of-function mutant (see CITATION). At the subcellular level, PP2AA1:GFP protein showed a broad intracellular distribution including endoplasmic reticulum-, cytosol-, and cell boundaries-associated signals ( CITATIONA and 5D). Closer examination by immunolocalization revealed colocalization of a fraction of PP2AA1:GFP with PIN1 and PIN2 at the plasma membrane (CITATIONA–5F). Quantitative analysis demonstrated that about 7% of the detected PP2AA1 signal colocalizes with PIN1, whereas 80% of PIN1 overlaps with PP2AA1. These results indicate that a sub-fraction of PP2AA1 colocalizes with PIN proteins at the plasma membrane. Analysis of PID::PID:YFP transgenic lines showed that PID:YFP is expressed in embryos (CITATIONC) and seedlings root tips (CITATIONE) where it is associated with the plasma membrane, corroborating previous observations on PID:GFP expressed in root hair cells (CITATION). Immunolocalization studies in roots revealed that PID:YFP is localized intracellularly and at the apical and basal cell sides thus partially colocalizing with PIN2 at apical plasma membrane of epidermis cells (CITATIONG–5I). Quantitative analysis of colocalization revealed that 23% of PID:YFP colocalizes with PIN2, whereas 89% of PIN2 colocalizes with PID:YFP. The association of PP2AA and PID with membranes was further substantiated by subcellular fractionation of protoplast extracts (see below) followed by Western blotting revealing a proportion of both proteins associated with the membrane fraction (data not shown). As PP2AA and PID do not represent intrinsic membrane proteins, their localization at the membrane structures necessitates at least transient association with membrane protein(s) or other membrane components. The opposite effects of both PP2AA and PID on PIN polar targeting and partial colocalization of these proteins suggest a scenario in which PINs are phosphorylation substrates of a pathway that depends on PID kinase and PP2AA phosphatase activities. To test the involvement of PID and PP2A in phosphorylation of PIN1 in vivo, we performed phosphorylation assays using extracts from Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). Protoplasts were transfected with the 35S::PIN1:GFP construct in combination with 35S::PID:FLAG and/or 35S::PP2AA1:HA. PIN1:GFP was observed by microscopy predominantly at the protoplast plasma membrane ( CITATIONA). Both PID:FLAG and PP2AA1:HA were detected on protein blots with the expected molecular weight (CITATIONB). PID:FLAG was found as a double band and, as the upper band disappeared upon phosphatase treatment (data not shown), this presumably reflects PID autophosphorylation, which was reported before (CITATION). Protein blots from extracts of protoplasts transfected with PIN1:GFP alone produced a single band of expected size for PIN1:GFP. When PIN1:GFP was cotransfected with PID:FLAG with or without PP2AA1:HA, we observed additional high molecular weight PIN1:GFP signals, in which two distinct, other bands could be distinguished (CITATIONC). This result was confirmed by immunoprecipitation from cell extracts - PIN1:GFP was pulled down as a compact band when expressed alone, but was accompanied by increased molecular weight PIN1-specific products when coexpressed with PID (CITATIONB). These results demonstrate PID-dependent modification of PIN1:GFP protein. Overexpression of PP2AA1:HA did not mitigate the effect of PID:FLAG on PIN1:GFP. This might be due to the dominance of PID- over PP2A activity, or due to the failure to increase the activity of the whole PP2A complex by overexpression of just the A regulatory subunit. To test whether the observed shift in molecular weight includes PIN1 phosphorylation, we incubated protein extracts with λ-phosphatase and/or phosphatase inhibitors. The higher molecular weight bands of PIN1:GFP were sensitive to incubation with λ-phosphatase. This effect was blocked by cotreatment with phosphatase inhibitors (CITATIOND), demonstrating that these additional PIN1:GFP signals with reduced mobility are the result of phosphorylation. The comparable effect of PID:FLAG on endogenous PIN1 in protoplasts cotransfected with PIN1:GFP was difficult to observe, due to transfection efficiencies of about 10% (data not shown). In addition, PIN1:GFP levels in the cotransfected cells was estimated to be about 10-fold higher than levels of endogenous PIN1 leading to preferential PID-dependent modification of PIN1:GFP. However, when we omitted PIN1:GFP and transfected protoplasts with only PID:FLAG with or without PP2AA1:HA, similar higher molecular weight bands for endogenous PIN1 were observed that disappeared upon λ-phosphatase treatment (CITATIONA). In summary, these data show that the PIN1 protein is phosphorylated in a PID-dependent manner in vivo. To test whether PINs are present in a phosphorylated state in planta, we immunoprecipitated PIN1:GFP protein from seedling roots and performed Mass Spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) on tryptic peptides. Seven different PIN1 peptides were identified, all falling within the large central hydrophilic loop (CITATION). One of these peptides was found both in a nonphosphorylated and phosphorylated state ( CITATIONA; CITATION). From the MS/MS spectrum, it cannot be determined whether the phosphorylation occurs at Serine 337 or at Threonine 340, both of which are conserved in several members of the PIN gene family. These results together with previous reports (CITATION) demonstrate that PIN1 and possibly also other PIN proteins are phosphorylated in their central hydrophilic loop in Arabidopsis. Next we tested whether the central hydrophilic loop of PIN proteins can be directly phosphorylated by PID. The HIS-tagged hydrophilic loop (HL) of PIN1 and GST-tagged PID were heterologously expressed in E. coli, and coincubated in an in vitro phosphorylation reaction. Following electrophoretic separation of the proteins, clear PID-dependent phosphorylation of HIS:PIN1HL was detected (CITATIONB). In addition, PID autophosphorylation and phosphorylation of the standard Ser/Thr kinase substrate Myelin Basic Protein (MBP), but not of an unrelated myosin-like protein (MLP) was detected. In another experiment, both GST:PID and HIS:PID were able to phosphorylate HIS:PIN2HL as well (CITATIONC). These results demonstrate that the PID kinase is able to phosphorylate the hydrophilic loop of PIN proteins in vitro. Furthermore, we tested the ability of protein extracts derived from wild-type, 35S::PID and pp2aa mutants to phosphorylate HIS:PIN2HL. The phosphorylation of HIS:PIN2HL was enhanced upon incubation with 35S::PID protein extract when compared to extracts from wild-type (CITATIOND). Similarly, protein extracts derived from plant material lacking PP2AA1 and either PP2AA2 or PP2AA3 had increased ability to phosphorylate PIN2HL (CITATIOND). These data confirm that PID activity positively regulates phosphorylation of PIN hydrophilic loops, whereas PP2A activity has a negative effect. When taken together, the results obtained in in vitro and the in vivo phosphorylation assays corroborate the genetic and cell biological studies and provide strong support for a scenario in which PID kinase and PP2A phosphatase activities antagonistically regulate phosphorylation of PIN proteins in their middle, hydrophilic loop.
!~MM~! Columbia ecotype (Col-O) plants were used for all experiments. The details on mutants, transgenic plants and constructs can be found in the supplementary material. Double mutants were generated by crosses and F2 progeny from five independent crosses for each combination of mutants were screened for phenotypes and confirmed by PCR genotyping. In an attempt to obtain pp2aa1 pp2aa2 pp2aa3 triple mutants among 120 genotyped F2 seedlings (all revealing strong phenotypes) no triple homozygous plants were found. Seeds were grown as described (CITATION). Short-time incubation of 3–5 dag seedlings with 5 μM 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; Sigma) was performed in 24-well cell-culture plates in liquid AM medium with 1% sucrose for 4 hr. Long-time treatment was done by growing seedling on AM medium supplemented with 0.3 μM NPA (Sigma). Seeds carrying inducible amiRNA system were germinated on AM medium supplemented with 1 or 5 μM tamoxifen (Sigma). Root gravitropic assays (CITATION) and embryo analyses (CITATION) were performed as described. Seedlings were analyzed at 3, 4, 6, 8, and 14 dag. Nine independent amiRNA lines were analyzed (four for amiRNA-1 and five for amiRNA-2). For pp2aas pid and pp2aas 35S::PID triple mutants five independent segregating lines of (n > 500 individuals) were examined. Microscopy was done with a Zeiss Axiophot equipped with Axiocam HR CCD camera. Histochemical stainings for GUS activity and whole-mount immunolocalization were performed as described (CITATION). Each experiment was done on three to ten independent lines with minimum of two repetitions. Antibodies were diluted as follows: anti-PIN1 (1:1000; CITATION), anti-PIN2 (1:1000; CITATION), anti-PIN4 (1:400; CITATION), anti-GFP (1:500; Molecular Probes); FITC- and CY3-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (Dianova) were both diluted 1:500. For in vivo GFP inspections, plant material was mounted in 5% glycerol. Analysis was done using a Leica TCS SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope. Images were processed in Adobe Photoshop and assembled in Adobe Illustrator. The colocalizations were quantitatively analyzed using MetaMorph (Molecular Devices). PIN1:GFP seedlings were grown vertically for 5 days and crude protein extract was prepared from excised roots (CITATION). Following preclearing protein extract with Tris-conjugated Microlink agarose matrix (Pierce), PIN1:GFP was precipitated by overnight incubation with anti-YFP antibody-coupled Microlink agarose matrix (R. Karlova, W. van Dongen, and S. de Vries, personal communication; details available upon request). The immunocomplexes were washed and Trypsin-digested as in CITATION. After Trypsin digestion, peptides were separated by nano-Liquid Chromatography and subjected to tandem Mass Spectrometry using an LCQ Classic (Thermo Electron, San Jose, CA). Spectra were compared with a custom-made database encompassing the Arabidopsis proteome using Bioworks 3.2 (Thermo Electron) software. The experiments were performed with three biological replicas giving comparable results. Arabidopsis protoplasts were isolated from suspension culture, transformed according to CITATION and harvested after 10–22 hr. Cell pellets were lysed by freeze-thaw cycles followed by a Dounce-type homogenizer. The extraction buffer used was based on CITATION except that PVPP was excluded, and 20% sorbitol was used instead of glycerol. Phosphorylation assays were performed using protoplasts extracted as above, but omitting the phosphatase inhibitors. Total cell extracts or membrane fractions were solubilised with 0.1% Brij35 and preheated at 65°C for 10 min to inactivate endogenous enzymes. After λ-phosphatase buffer (Sigma P9614) was added, four treatments were performed in a final volume of 30 or 50 μl: (a) sample plus 3 mM MnCl2; (b) sample plus 3 mM MnCl2 and 100 U λ-phosphatase (Sigma P9614); (c) sample plus phosphatase inhibitors (20 mM EDTA, 13 mM EGTA, 40 mM betaglycerolphosphate, 0.5 mM sodium orthovanadate, 1 mM sodium molybdate, 5 nM okadaic acid, 50 mM sodium fluoride); (d) sample plus 100 U λ-phosphatase and phosphatase inhibitors as in (c). All samples were incubated at 30°C for 5–20 min. Reactions were stopped by adding phosphatase inhibitors to (a) and (b) and freezing all samples. Protoplasts transformed with GFP and subjected to phosphatase treatment as above showed no change in GFP specific bands as detected by Western blotting, indicating that GFP itself was not phosphorylated when overexpressed in protoplasts (data not shown). Samples were separated as described (CITATION) and probed with the following antibodies: affinity purified rabbit polyclonal anti-PIN1 (CITATION), mouse monoclonal anti-FLAG (Sigma, clone M2, used at 2.5 μg/ml), mouse monoclonal anti-GFP (Roche, clones 7.1 and 13.1, used at 0.4 μg/ml), rat monoclonal anti-HA (Roche, clone 3F10, used at 0.2 μg/ml). Secondary antibodies (HRP-conjugated goat anti-rabbit, anti-mouse or anti-rat IgG, all from Jackson) were used at 0.02–0.08 μg/ml. Detection was performed using enhanced chemiluminescence (Pierce Super Signal). Approximately 1 μg of purified protein expressed in E. coli (PID and substrates) were added to kinase reaction mix (20 μl total volume), containing 1x kinase buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5]; 1 mM DTT; 5 mM MgCl2) and 1× ATP solution (100 μM MgCl2/ATP; 1 μCi 32P-γ-ATP). For the assays with seedling extracts, 3–4 dag seedlings were harvested in aliquots of 50 seedlings and stored at −80°C. Approximately 4 μg of the PIN2HL was incubated with 50 μg total protein extracted from seedlings, 1× kinase buffer and 1× ATP solution (see above) in a total volume of 150 μl. Reactions were incubated at 30°C for 30 min. and stopped by the addition of respectively 5 or 40 μl of 5 × protein loading buffer (310 mM Tris-HCl [pH 6.8]; 10% SDS; 50% Glycerol; 750 mM β-Mercaptoethanol; 0,125% Bromophenol Blue) and 5 min. boiling. Reactions were subsequently separated over 12,5% acrylamide gels, which were washed 3 times for 30 min. with kinase gel wash buffer (5% TCA [trichoroacetic acid]; 1% Na2H2P2O7), Coomassie stained, destained, dried, and exposed to X-ray films for 24 to 48 hr at −80°C using intensifier screens.
