!~ABS~! A key feature of plants (as opposed to animals) is their ability to establish new organs not only during embryogenesis, but also throughout their development. A master regulator of organ initiation in plants is the phytohormone auxin. Auxin acts locally as a morphogen and is directionally transported from cell to cell by polarized auxin efflux carriers, termed PIN-FORMED (PIN) proteins. Here we report that the Arabidopsis ortholog of the yeast and mammalian vacuolar protein sorting 29 (VPS29), a member of the retromer complex, mediates the formation of new axes of development. Furthermore, we show that VPS29 is required for endosome homeostasis, PIN protein cycling, and dynamic PIN1 repolarization during development. We propose a model that links VPS29 function, PIN1 polarity, and organ initiation in plants.
!~RES~! To study VPS29 function in A. thaliana, we analyzed three allelic T-DNA insertion lines in the VPS29 gene (CITATION in the CITATION, available with this article online). The three alleles were null mutants and exhibited the same sporophytic phenotype, which was fully complemented by transgenic expression of a genomic fragment spanning the VPS29 gene (CITATION). These results indicate that VPS29 is the only gene impaired in the vps29 mutants. As previously shown by CITATION, vps29 plants had a dwarf phenotype compared with wild-type controls ( CITATIONA). We found vps29 seedlings to exhibit abnormal cotyledons in their shape, number, and positioning (CITATIONB–1F, CITATION for quantitative data). Interestingly, the pin1 single or pin4 pin7 double mutants have similar defects in cotyledon number and positioning (CITATION). As cotyledons are embryonic leaves, we investigated early embryonic development of vps29 mutants. In comparison with wild-type controls, the stereotypical pattern of cell division in early embryos was affected in vps29 mutants (CITATIONG and 1H). In a significant number of vps29 embryos, the division plan of the apical cell of the embryo was compromised, as demonstrated by horizontal instead of vertical division (CITATIONH). At later stages, mutant embryos continued to exhibit abnormal shapes and cell division defects (see CITATION for quantitative data). Here again, the embryo defects in vps29 were reminiscent of some combinations of pin mutants, suggesting a role for VPS29 in regulating PIN protein function during embryogenesis (CITATION). Next, we investigated the root phenotype of vps29. Seedlings of vps29 had a reduced primary root length (CITATIONI and 1J) and displayed fewer secondary roots (CITATIONK and 1L) compared with the wild-type. In addition, roots and hypocotyls were agravitropic (CITATIONI). Thus, it appears that VPS29 is required at many stages of embryonic and postembryonic development. Moreover, our data indicate that the vps29 mutant has phenotypic defects very similar to those of some pin mutants. To some extent, phenotypic features of vps29 roots resembled those of snx1 mutants, although they were less severe in snx1 (CITATION). As SNX1 and VPS29 are possible components of the retromer complex in plants, we assumed that they are likely to cooperate in some common developmental pathways. We first quantitatively analyzed the shoot phenotype of two snx1 single mutant alleles (CITATION), which had mild defects for both root and shoot development as compared with vps29. Then, we crossed the vps29 and snx1 mutant lines to examine the genetic interactions between VPS29 and SNX1. In an F3 population derived from the self-pollination of a VPS29/vps29 snx1/snx1 plant, we found VPS29/vps29 snx1/snx1 seedlings to show a stronger phenotype than the snx1 single mutant and harbor cotyledons with aberrant shapes, which was never the case for snx1 single mutants ( CITATIONA and CITATION). After flowering, VPS29/vps29 snx1/snx1 plants exhibited an intermediate phenotype between that of snx1 and vps29 single mutants (CITATIONB). However, of more than two hundred F3 plants analyzed, we did not find any vps29/vps29 snx1/snx1 double mutant plants, suggesting that the loss of function of these two genes is either gametophytic or embryonic lethal. Our previous analysis of snx1 mutants suggested that SNX1 is involved in polar auxin transport in roots (CITATION). The presence of a genetic interaction between SNX1 and VPS29 we detected here indicates that VPS29 is likely to contribute to this pathway, in both the root and the shoot. As VPS29 is a component of the Vps35-Vps29-Vps26 retromer subcomplex in yeast and mammals, we investigated whether such a retromer subcomplex might occur in plant cells. A two-hybrid screen confirmed the physical interaction between VPS35a and the other two retromer components, VPS26a and VPS29 (CITATIONC). To verify the existence of this subcomplex in plants, we carried out a coimmunoprecipitation experiment using a transgenic line expressing VPS29 fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) (CITATIOND). Mass spectrometry analysis revealed the presence of VPS35 and VPS26 isoforms associated with VPS29-GFP in the immunocomplex (CITATION). Taken together, the genetic interaction between SNX1 and VPS29, the presence of the VPS35-VPS29-VPS26 retromer subcomplex in plants, and the reported degradation of VPS35 in the Arabidopsis mutant vps29-2/mag1-2 (CITATION) suggest that the retromer complex might be involved in the vps29-phenotype. To determine whether auxin distribution is affected in vps29, we used the DR5rev:GFP reporter line, which is a reporter of auxin maxima in Arabidopsis (CITATION). In wild-type seedlings, the GFP signal driven by the DR5 promoter was restricted to the tip of the cotyledons ( CITATIONA). In vps29, the GFP signal was greatly enhanced in the cotyledon tip and extended to the vascular tissue and margins of cotyledons (CITATIONA). In contrast, the DR5 reporter was less active at the primary root tip of vps29 than in the wild-type control (CITATIONB). Next, we asked whether sensitivity or response to auxin (or both) are altered in roots of the vps29 mutant. We treated roots with the transportable 1-Naphtalene-Acetic-Acid (NAA) auxin analog, which is known to artificially induce secondary root formation throughout the whole pericycle (CITATION). In vps29, we observed that poorly defined secondary root primordia were induced by NAA treatment (CITATIONC). This result indicates that vps29 is capable of sensing auxin treatment and subsequently initiating lateral root primordia, but is unable to produce fully polarized lateral roots. Similar results were observed in pin3 pin7 and pin1 pin3 pin4 mutants (CITATION). Control of auxin transport by PIN1 is known to be crucial for vascular tissue development (CITATION). In wild-type shoots, vascular tissue forms individual bundles (CITATIOND), which are partially fused in pin1 mutant and shows abnormal xylem proliferation (CITATION). Shoots of vps29 exhibited xylem overproliferation and a continuous xylem strand consisting of xylem poles fused to interfascicular parenchyma that differentiated into xylem (CITATIOND and CITATION for a more detailed analysis). As in pin1, phloem poles remained well separated and no overproliferation of phloem was detected. Altogether, our results suggest that vps29 has altered PIN function in polar auxin transport. To explore this hypothesis, we investigated the genetic interaction between vps29 and the pin1 auxin efflux carrier mutant. We chose pin1 because vps29-phenotypes resemble those of pin1 in many aspects, with the notable exception of the characteristic pin-formed inflorescent shoot apical meristem (SAM) phenotype (CITATION). We found all seedlings generated from self-pollination of a vps29/vps29 PIN1/pin1 plant to exhibit a vps29-phenotype, meaning that vps29 pin1 double mutant seedlings cannot be distinguished from vps29 single mutant plants (CITATIONE and CITATION). This result is consistent with a role for VPS29 in regulating PIN1 function during seedling development. After flowering, vps29 pin1 double mutant plants had an additive phenotype reflecting the sum of the two single mutant phenotypes; the plants were dwarf with a pin-shaped shoot (CITATIONF). This suggests that VPS29 does not control PIN1 function in the inflorescence SAM. This could be explained if VPS29 is not expressed in the inflorescence SAM, where PIN1 is active (CITATION). To test this assumption, we checked the expression pattern of VPS29 by in situ hybridization and by analyzing VPS29:VPS29-GUS-expressing lines. VPS29 transcripts were not detected in the SAM but were found in older organs and in flowers (CITATIONG and CITATION). As PIN1 acts in the SAM to regulate organ formation and phyllotaxis in the shoot, this result explains why the vps29 single mutant did not display a pin-shaped-phenotype. Thus, it appears that VPS29 is a major mediator of PIN1 function during root, vascular tissue, and seedling development, where both VPS29 and PIN1 are expressed (CITATION and CITATION), but is not involved in organ initiation at the SAM, where only PIN1 is expressed (CITATION). Another regulator of PIN1 function is the protein kinase PINOID (PID) (CITATION). pid and pin1 single mutant phenotypes are very similar in both seedling and shoot development (CITATION). To address whether VPS29 and PID act in the same developmental pathways, we generated vps29 pid double mutants. vps29 pid seedlings showed a strong synergistic phenotype compared with the phenotype of single mutants (CITATIONE). Double mutant seedlings totally lacked cotyledons (CITATIONE) but had a functional SAM capable of generating leaves. However, leaves were often fused and formed a radial cup surrounding the SAM (CITATION). Interestingly, similar phenotypes were reported for pin1 pid double mutants (CITATION) (see CITATIONE and CITATION). In the vps29 pid double mutant, vps29 mimics the defect provided by the loss of function of PIN1 in the pin1 pid double mutant. These results strongly argue for a role for VPS29 in regulating PIN1 function during seedling development. Altogether, our data indicate that VPS29 is required for the establishment of normal DR5 maxima in cotyledons and roots, and that some features of the vps29-phenotype can be explained by alteration of PIN1 function. In tobacco BY2 cells, VPS29 colocalizes with two other retromer components, VPS35 and VPS26, and with vacuolar sorting receptor-1 (VSR1) at the surface of MVBs (CITATION). To ascertain the subcellular localization of VPS29 in intact Arabidopsis root apices, we used the same genomic construct as that for the complementation experiment, but we added the coding sequence of the GFP at the 3′ end (CITATION). This construct was functional; it can fully rescue the vps29 mutant (CITATION). We analyzed VPS29-GFP localization in living Arabidopsis roots and found the fusion protein to label punctate structures in the cytosol ( CITATIONA). VPS29-GFP-labeled compartments were sensitive to both Wortmannin (Wm) (CITATIONB) and Brefeldin A (BFA) (CITATIONC–4E), which are two drugs that alter endosomes (CITATION). Additionally, VPS29-GFP-labeled compartments were stained by the FM4-64 endocytic tracer after 15 min of dye treatment (CITATIONF–4H). Next, we crossed the VPS29:VPS29-GFP-expressing line with either a 35S:mRFP-RABF2b or a functional SNX1:SNX1-mRFP expressing line, which are both endosome marker lines (CITATION). In hybrid seedlings, we detected a strong colocalization between VPS29-GFP and mRFP-RABF2b (CITATIONI–4K) or SNX1-mRFP (CITATIONL–4N). In contrast, VPS29 did not colocalize with the Golgi, TGN, or GNOM endosome markers in root cells (CITATION). Altogether, our localization study indicates that VPS29 is localized to SNX1 endosomes in Arabidopsis roots. Next, we investigated the impact of VPS29 loss of function on the morphology of endosomal compartments. In vps29, both GFP-RABF2b and SNX1-GFP markers were found in aberrant enlarged endosomes ( CITATIONA–5D). To determine whether VPS29 loss of function affects SNX1 endosomes specifically, we introgressed a GNOM:GNOM-GFP or VHA-a1:VHA-a1-GFP reporter line in the vps29 mutant (CITATION). GNOM-GFP compartments, as well as the TGN labeled with VHA-a1-GFP, had a normal shape and size in vps29 (CITATIONE–5H). The Golgi apparatus markers ERD2-GFP and ST-GFP were also not disturbed in vps29 roots (CITATION). In addition, GNOM-GFP- and VHA-a1-GFP-labeled compartments displayed the same BFA sensitivity in vps29 as in wild-type plants (CITATIONM–5P). Both markers accumulated inside the so-called “BFA compartment” together with internalized FM4-64 after BFA treatment. Interestingly, this was not the case for GFP-RABF2b- and SNX1-GFP-labeled endosomes, which still accumulated in BFA compartment, but were basically not stained by endocytosed FM4-64 in vps29, contrary to the wild-type (CITATIONI–5L). Together these data indicate that VPS29 is required to maintain the normal morphology and homeostasis of SNX1 endosomes, whereas it is not necessary to preserve the integrity of GNOM endosomes. As VPS29 is needed for both maintaining SNX1 endosome homeostasis and regulating PIN1 function, we investigated whether VPS29 is involved in PIN endocytic trafficking. In roots of a pin1 mutant line complemented by the PIN1:PIN1-GFP construct, PIN1-GFP was basally localized at the PM of stele cells ( CITATIONA) (CITATION). In vps29, although PIN1-GFP remained properly basally localized at the PM, it also accumulated within aberrant enlarged compartments in stele cells (CITATIONB). As we previously showed that SNX1 endosomes are enlarged in vps29, we hypothesized that PIN1-GFP is blocked in these enlarged SNX1-labeled compartments. To check this assumption, we introduced both PIN1-GFP and SNX1-mRFP markers into vps29. Intracellular PIN1-GFP labeling accumulated with SNX1-mRFP in the enlarged compartments in vps29 (CITATION). To ascertain that PIN1 localization was not artifactually caused by the GFP tag, we looked directly at the localization of endogenous PIN1 proteins in vps29 by using a specific anti-PIN1 antibody. We found endogenous PIN1 to accumulate in large intracellular compartments in vps29, confirming that routing of PIN1 is affected in vps29 (CITATION). We then wondered whether PIN2, which is also expressed in root apex, might be mislocalized in vps29 as well. To address this question, we introgressed a PIN2:PIN2-GFP transgenic line into the vps29 background (CITATION). PIN2 is apically localized in epidermal cells, whereas it is basally localized in cortical cells (CITATIONC) (CITATION). In vps29, PIN2-GFP was properly polarized at the PM, but it also accumulated within the characteristic enlarged intracellular compartments of vps29 root cells (CITATIOND and CITATION). However, intracellular accumulation of PIN2 was less pronounced than that observed for PIN1. Next, we used the same strategy to analyze the role of VPS29 in the trafficking of other PM proteins such as AUX1, low temperature inducible protein 6b (LTi6b), and plasma membrane intrinsic protein 2a (PIP2a) (CITATION). Interestingly, AUX1-YFP, GFP-LTi6b, and GFP-PIP2a remained correctly localized to the PM and were not found to label enlarged intracellular compartments in vps29 (CITATIONE–6J). Altogether, our results show that VPS29 is involved in the trafficking of at least two PIN proteins in root cells. Moreover, the protein trafficking pathway mediated by VPS29 appears to be specific to some cargo proteins, since AUX1, LTi6b, and PIP2a localization seems to be independent of a functional VPS29. We cannot exclude the possibility that VPS29 might be involved in the routing of cargos other than PIN1 and PIN2. Thus, it is possible that some of the vps29-phenotypes we reported here might be unassociated with alterations of auxin transport and PIN function. Accumulation of PIN1 into enlarged intracellular compartments led us to ask whether it is PIN1 recycling toward the PM or its degradation that is affected in vps29. To distinguish between these two possibilities, we studied PIN1:PIN1-GFP-expressing seedlings in wild-type and vps29 backgrounds after treatment with cycloheximide (CHX), a protein synthesis inhibitor. In the wild-type background, PIN1-GFP remained properly localized at the PM after 4 hr of CHX treatment, and we noticed almost no decrease in the GFP signal (CITATIONK). In contrast, PIN1-GFP labeling disappeared almost completely in vps29, especially at the PM (CITATIONL). This experiment indicates that PIN1 degradation is not compromised in vps29, while its recycling is likely to be altered. This implies that in the absence of recycling, PIN1 is sent for degradation by a default pathway. To gain more direct clues as to whether PIN1 cycling is indeed affected in vps29, we performed a fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis. In the control experiment, we observed a recovery of PIN1-GFP at the PM of stele cells within 20 to 30 min after photobleaching (CITATIONM and CITATION for quantitative data). This recovery was largely delayed either when recycling in wild-type was blocked by BFA treatment or in the vps29 mutant (CITATIONN and 6O, and CITATION). Thus, PIN1-GFP recovery at the basal side of the PM is conditioned by endocytic recycling, is dependent on the GNOM BFA-sensitive pathway, and involves the VPS29 protein. As both GNOM and VPS29 are required for PIN1 recycling, we next investigated whether VPS29 acts upstream or downstream of GNOM. As GNOM is the only BFA-sensitive ARF-GEF required for PIN1 recycling (CITATION), we looked at the effect of BFA on PIN1-GFP localization in roots of the wild-type and vps29 mutant. While PIN1-GFP accumulated in FM4-64-labeled BFA compartment in wild-type roots, we detected PIN1-GFP in two subcompartments in vps29; one displayed only a green fluorescent signal, whereas the other exhibited a yellow fluorescent signal corresponding to the sum of GFP and FM4-64 fluorescence (CITATIONP). Because we previously showed that SNX1-GFP endosomes form a compartment distinct from FM4-64-labeled, GNOM-GFP endosomes upon BFA treatment in vps29 background (CITATIONI–5N), we can assume that the GFP-labeled compartment corresponds to SNX1 endosomes, while the other corresponds to GNOM-endosomes. This observation suggests that BFA blocked trafficking of PIN1-GFP from GNOM toward SNX1 endosomes (CITATIONQ). Altogether, these data suggest that PIN1 is internalized first through GNOM endosomes and is then routed to SNX1 endosomes for its recycling to the PM. In vps29, PIN1 remains basally localized in the stele cells, indicating that VPS29 is not required for maintaining PIN1 polar localization in these cells. However, because of the severe effects of the loss of function of VPS29 on seedling development, we asked whether VPS29 could be involved in the control of PIN1 polarity during some developmental processes. For that purpose, we first looked at vps29 embryos, as control of PIN1 polarity is essential for proper embryo development (CITATION). In vps29 embryos exhibiting a wild-type-like morphology (about 40% of vps29 embryos, see CITATION), we found that PIN1 polarity failed to establish properly in some cells ( CITATIONE–7H) compared with the stereotypical pattern of PIN1 polarity in wild-type embryos (CITATIONA–7D). In vps29 embryos with abnormal shape (about 60% of vps29 embryos, see CITATION), PIN1 polarity and localization were more dramatically affected (CITATIONI–7L). In these embryos, PIN1 polarity was no longer coordinated and PIN1 accumulated inside the vps29 enlarged intracellular compartments (CITATIONL). This mislocalization of PIN1 was associated with altered auxin maxima, as deduced by DR5rev:GFP expression levels (CITATION). Next, we examined PIN1 polarity during lateral root emergence, as lateral root formation is strongly affected in vps29 (CITATION). In the wild-type, at very early stages of secondary root formation, PIN1-GFP was found at the basal side but also at the lateral side of the cells, facing the new root apex (CITATIONM and 7N). Later, nearly all the cells of the emerging primordia displayed laterally polarized PIN1 (CITATIONN). In vps29 young lateral root primordia, PIN1-GFP labeling was found at the PM and within the intracellular enlarged compartments (CITATIONO and 7P). Interestingly, at every stage of early lateral root development, lateral repolarization of PIN1-GFP failed and PIN1-GFP remained almost exclusively at the basal side of the cells (CITATIONP). As in embryos, the mislocalization of PIN1 was associated with an altered auxin maximum (CITATION). This result indicates that VPS29 is required for the reorientation of PIN1 polarity during secondary root formation and the establishment of new root primordia. Thus, VPS29 is involved in PIN1 polarity rearrangement and coordination during both embryo and root development. Small GTPases of the Rho of Plant (ROP) family are known to be regulators of cell polarity in different cell systems (CITATION). Interestingly, overexpression of a constitutive active (CA)-ROP2 leads to increased lateral root formation (CITATION), suggesting that ROP2 and VPS29 might be involved in the same developmental pathway. Thus, we examined the lateral root phenotype in vps29 plants overexpressing CA-ROP2. These plants displayed the same phenotype as the vps29 single mutant, characterized by a very limited number of lateral roots (CITATION). This indicates that VPS29 is required for ROP2 function in lateral root emergence.
!~MM~! The vps29-3 (Columbia accession, SALK010106), vps29-5 (Columbia accession, SALK117264) and vps29-4 (Columbia accession, GABI125H09) T-DNA mutant lines were obtained from the SALK Institute (CITATION) and Bernd Weisshaar (MPI for Plant Breeding Research; Cologne, Germany), respectively. The snx1-1, snx1-2, pin1-6, pid14,and pin1 pid mutant lines, the GNOM:GNOM-GFP line in gnom background, PIN1:PIN1-GFP line in pin1 background, PIN2:PIN2-GFP line in pin2 (eir1-1) background, SNX1:SNX1-mRFP line in snx1-1 background, SNX1:SNX1-GFP line in snx1-1 background, VHA-a1:VHA-a1-GFP line in vha-a1 background, AUX1:AUX1-YFP, 35S:GFP-LTi6b, 35S:GFP-PIP2a, 35S:GFP:RABF2b, 35S:mRFP-RABF2b, and DR5rev:GFP lines were described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown in soil with long daylight at 21°C and 70% humidity. For root analysis, seedlings were grown vertically on MS medium in Petri dishes for the indicated period of time. NAA treatments were performed as described (CITATION). For double mutant analysis, two to three allelic combinations were analyzed for each double mutant line. We generated the following allelic combinations: vps29-3 snx1-1, vps29-4 snx1-2, vps29-5 snx1-1, vps29-3 pin1-6, vps29-5 pin1-6, vps29-3 pid14, and vps29-5 pid14. Within each double mutant line, similar results were found. For introgression of marker lines (SNX1-GFP, GFP-RABF2b, GNOM-GFP, PIN1-GFP, PIN2-GFP, AUX1-YFP, GFP-LTi6b, GFP-PIP2a, and DR5-GFP) in vps29 mutant background, at least two vps29 alleles were independently analyzed and gave comparable results. Roots of 7-day-old seedlings grown on MS medium were mounted in LM medium (CITATION) and analyzed on an LSM-510 Laser-Scanning Confocal Microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). FM4-64, BFA (100 μM in DMSO/EtOH), Wm (33 μM in DMSO), and CHX (50 μm in DMSO) treatments were carried out as described (CITATION). NAA treatment and analysis of PIN1-GFP lateralization were performed as described (CITATION). For DR5rev:GFP analysis in cotyledons, a fluorescent stereomicroscope (Leica) coupled with a specific GFP filter set was used. For embryo analysis, siliques were dissected under a stereomicroscope, and developing seeds were cleared at least 2 hr in chloral hydrate (80 g in 30 ml H2O and 10 ml glycerol) and observed under a Nikon microscope coupled to a DIC optic. FRAP experiments were performed on an LSM-510 confocal microscope and analyzed with ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). The pixel intensity of each region of interest (ROI) determined before FRAP was reported as 100% of pixel intensity. After FRAP, the pixel intensity of each ROI corresponded to the percentage of pixel intensity compared with the initial value. Each experiment was repeated at least three times independently and more than ten roots or siliques were analyzed per experiment. Recombinant plasmid construction and plant transformation are described in CITATION, yeast two hybrid and coimmunoprecipitation experiments in CITATION, analysis of vps29 vascular tissue in CITATION, in situ hybridization protocol in CITATION, and immunolocalization in CITATION. All the experiments presented in this work were repeated at least three times independently. p values indicated for measurement of primary root length and lateral root density were obtained using a two-sided Student's test assuming unequal variances. All calculations were performed using Microsoft Excel 2003.
