!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana genome expresses five evolutionarily conserved prohibitin (PHB) genes that are divided into type-I (AtPHB3 and AtPHB4) and type-II (AtPHB1, AtPHB2 and AtPHB6) classes, based on their phylogenetic relationships with yeast PHB1 and PHB2, respectively. Yeast and animal PHBs are reported to have diverse roles in the cell cycle, mitochondrial electron transport, aging and apoptosis. All transcribed Arabidopsis PHB genes are primarily expressed in both shoot and root proliferative tissues, where they are present in mitochondrial multimeric complexes. Loss of function of the type-I AtPHB4 had no phenotypic effects, while loss of function of the homologous AtPHB3 caused mitochondrial swelling, decreased meristematic cell production, increased cell division time and reduced cell expansion rates, leading to severe growth retardation. Double knockout atphb3 atphb4 plants were not viable, but transgenic lines overexpressing AtPHB3 or AtPHB4 showed leaf shape aberrations and an increased shoot branching phenotype. Genome-wide microarray analysis revealed that both knockout and overexpression perturbations of AtPHB3 and AtPHB4 provoked an altered abundance of mitochondrial and stress-related transcripts. We propose that plant type-I PHBs take part in protein complexes that are necessary for proficient mitochondrial function or biogenesis, thereby supporting cell division and differentiation in apical tissues.
!~RES~! Prohibitins are strongly conserved across different taxa (CITATION). A phylogenetic analysis revealed that the PHB protein family is split into two major groups that we designated type-I and type-II, with respect to their homology with yeast PHB1 and PHB2 (Figure 1a). All analyzed organisms contain at least one member of both types, suggesting that type-I and type-II PHBs are functionally interdependent. Generally, type-I PHBs are smaller than their type-II counterparts in the same species and have more acidic pI values. The Arabidopsis genome contains three type-I and four type-II PHB genes, which probably originate from ancestral duplications, as suggested by their conserved intron/exon composition: type-I and type-II AtPHB genes have one and four introns, respectively (Figure 1b). Phylogenetically, AtPHB5 and AtPHB7 are more divergent and are outliers in the set of plant PHBs. As no expressed sequence tags have been identified for both genes they are probably pseudogenes or only expressed at very low levels under unidentified specific conditions. [[FIGURE]] No canonical mitochondrial transit peptide or nuclear localization signals were detected in the AtPHB protein sequences, although the prediction tool TMHMM2 suggested a putative N-terminal transmembrane helix between the 6th and 40th amino acid (CITATION). To experimentally assess the function of this N-terminal domain in the subcellular targeting of AtPHBs, for all seven AtPHB genes we produced transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing the respective AtPHB promoter, the first AtPHB exon translationally fused to a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter cassette. The first AtPHB exons were expected to contain the putative targeting domains. The GUS histochemical stainings on the ProAtPHB:GFP–GUS lines revealed that the AtPHB promoters drive expression predominantly in proliferative tissues (see below), except for AtPHB5 and AtPHB7 in which no expression was visible. At the subcellular level, the fluorescent signal was observed in a punctate pattern (Figure 1c). Co-localization experiments with the Mitotracker mitochondrial marker demonstrated that this pattern matched that of the mitochondria for all five AtPHB:GFP–GUS fusion proteins (Figure 1c). The full-length open reading frames (ORFs) of AtPHBs were amplified by PCR, translationally fused upstream and downstream of a GFP-coding sequence and stably transformed into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow-2 suspension cells. The corresponding cDNAs for AtPHB5 and AtPHB7 could not be cloned. For the GFP–AtPHB fusion constructs, the GFP signal was diffused throughout the cytoplasm, but for the C-terminal AtPHB–GFP fusions, it clearly matched the Mitotracker marker (Figure 1d,e). Taken together, these results indicate that AtPHBs are targeted to the mitochondria by an N-terminal peptide. In both yeast and animal mitochondria, PHBs have previously been demonstrated to form complexes of 1–2 MDa that possibly function as chaperones for components of the respiration chain (CITATION; CITATION). To assess whether AtPHBs are also part of a multimeric complex, we identified the interacting proteins within such a complex with a tandem affinity purification (TAP)/mass spectrometry (MS)-based approach (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were stably transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated co-cultivation with a Pro35S:AtPHB3-TAP cassette. The TAP tag consisted of two IgG-binding domains of the Staphylococcus aureus protein A (ZZ) and a calmodulin-binding peptide (CBP), separated by a tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease cleavage site. Based on the presence of the double tag, two-step affinity purification was performed. In two independent experiments with AtPHB3 as bait, AtPHB4 and the type-II AtPHB1, AtPHB2 and AtPHB6 were isolated (Table 1). In addition AtPHB3 occurred in the tagged and untagged form, indicating that it can directly or indirectly bind itself. The AtPHBs were detected at their predicted molecular mass and peptides were found close to the N-termini, suggesting that, as in other organisms, no leader peptide is cleaved during import of AtPHB into the mitochondria (CITATION). The other proteins included the mitochondrial isocitrate dehydrogenase IDH1, a phosphoglycerate kinase, a DEAD box RNA helicase and three expressed proteins (Table 1). From these in vivo interaction experiments, we can conclude that all expressed AtPHBs are present within a multimeric complex. To obtain an initial insight into the AtPHB expression characteristics, we surveyed publicly available expression data accessible through the Genevestigator toolbox (CITATION). The highest AtPHB transcript levels were found particularly in proliferative tissues, such as the shoot apex, the root tip, young leaves and cell suspensions (Figure 2a). Tissue-specific expression was further explored by GUS histochemical staining on transgenic plants containing the promoter PHB:GFP–GUS fusion constructs in which the first AtPHB exon, intron and part of the second exon were translationally fused to GFP–GUS. Very similar results were obtained with all AtPHB promoter constructs, with the exception of AtPHB5 and AtPHB7, for which no staining was observed. We describe the results for AtPHB4 that are representative for all five expressed AtPHB promoters. [[FIGURE]] Sometimes GUS staining was observed in vasculature, but was most prominent in both shoot and root apical tissues (Figure 2b,e,f). Longitudinal sections through the shoot apex of young seedlings revealed strong staining in the young leaf primordia (Figure 2c). In cotyledons, hypocotyls and differentiating rosette leaves, AtPHB promoter activity was also detectable in stomatal meristemoid cells, guard mother cells and trichomes (Figure 2d,f). In mature leaves GUS staining was hardly detectable (Figure 2e). In inflorescences, the AtPHB4 promoter was also primarily active in the apical region, young leaves, emerging axillary buds and young flowers (Figure 2g). Within the anthers, GUS staining was located in the proximity of the sporogenous tissue and disappeared shortly after maturation (Figure 2h). In immature seeds, globular embryos, though not the suspensor cells, were significantly stained (Figure 2i). In roots, the AtPHB4 promoter was predominantly active in the meristematic zone. The expression diminished in the elongation zone and did not exceed background levels in the differentiation zone (Figure 2j). In cross-sections through the meristematic zone, the expression levels were lower in protophloem cells than in surrounding tissues (Figure 2k). No promoter activity was observed in root cap cells. In the elongation zone, expression was highest in epidermal cells, particularly in the trichoblasts (data not shown). The AtPHB4 promoter was also highly active in developing adventive and lateral root meristems (Figures 2b,l and 3a). [[FIGURE]] Lateral root initiation is induced by auxin-mediated cell cycle activation (CITATION). To assess the auxin responsiveness of AtPHB expression, ProAtPHB:GFP–GUS seeds were germinated on medium containing the auxin transport inhibitor naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA). No lateral root initials were formed and no clear staining was discernible in root pericycle cells 72 h after germination. Six hours after transfer to medium containing the auxin naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), elevated expression was observed in pericycle cells at the protoxylem poles (Figure 3c,d), indicating that the AtPHB promoter is already active during the first asymmetrical cell divisions of lateral root initiation. This auxin-inducible promoter activity is in line with increased AtPHB transcript abundance in a microarray analysis, in which AtPHB1, AtPHB3 and AtPHB4 transcripts accumulated within 6 h of the application of auxin (CITATION; Figure 3b). The abundance of AtPHB transcript was also monitored by real-time reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR in a leaf development time series (CITATION; Figure 3e). Transcript levels of all expressed AtPHB genes were highest in proliferating leaf tissue (days 8–12), decreased during the expansion phase (days 12–19) and reached minimal levels in mature leaf tissue (days 19–24). This observation is consistent with the ProAtPHB histochemical staining patterns (Figure 2h,i), in which expression was highest in the youngest leaves and faded toward leaf maturity. Thus, AtPHB genes are primarily expressed in proliferative tissues and dividing cells. A loss-of-function mutant atphb3KO (SALK_020707) contained a T-DNA insertion at the end of exon 1 (Figure 4a). RNA gel blot analysis showed that, in homozygous atphb3KO plants, the 1.2-kb sized AtPHB3 transcript levels were strongly reduced, but that a transcript of approximately 2 kb accumulated (Figure 4b). The atphb3KO plants had obvious developmental phenotypes with severe growth retardation throughout their development. Germination of atphb3KO seeds was delayed by 1–2 days compared with wild-type and atphb4KO plants (Supplementary Figure S1). The Atphb3KO plants were severely retarded in growth throughout their development. Sections through the shoot apex of 3-day-old seedlings showed a significant delay in the development of leaf structures (Figure 4c). After 4 weeks of growth, the rosette of atphb3KO plants had a leaf area that was more than 2.5-fold smaller than that of wild-type plants and had developed fewer leaves than did the wild type (9 versus 13) (Figure 4d). Rosette leaves of atphb3KO plants were often curled and inflorescence growth was decreased. These growth-related phenotypes were complemented by AtPHB3 expression because introduction of a Pro35S:AtPHB3 construct restored their growth rate (see below). Atphb4KO (GABI_535 G10) had a T-DNA insertion in the second exon of AtPHB4 (Figure 4a) and RNA gel blot analysis consolidated the absence of AtPHB4 transcript in homozygous plants (Figure 4b). The atphb4KO plants had no aberrant phenotypes compared with wild-type plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The lack of a phenotype in atphb4KO is probably due to a functional redundancy with AtPHB3 that is expressed at higher levels (Figures 2a and 3b). Accordingly, in atphb4KO, protein levels of type-I PHBs had not decreased compared with those of wild-type plants on protein gel blots with an antibody that recognizes type-I AtPHBs (CITATION), while in atphb3KO a drastic reduction in protein levels was observed (Figure 4b). The significant developmentally related defects of atphb3KO plants prompted us to investigate the effects of the atphb3 mutation on growth rates at the cellular level. Therefore, we monitored the growth characteristics of the cortex cells in the root apical meristem. These cells are well suited to a kinematic growth analysis because they provide a linear model to study plant cell division and expansion rates (CITATION; CITATION). Table 2 presents the average root cortex cell growth parameters of atphb3KO and Col-0 plants 1 week after germination. The overall rate of root growth in wild-type plants was approximately 300 μm h−1, whereas in atphb3KO roots it was less than 100 μm h−1. Despite a reduction in cellular diameter (123 ± 4 μm in atphb3KO versus 145 ± 5 μm in Col-0; P < 0.0001), the diminished growth rate was not due to a significant decrease in the length of mature cells, but rather to a decrease in production of meristem cells and the rate of cell expansion. The size of the root meristem was reduced from 528 ± 15 μm in Col-0 to 334 ± 16 μm in atphb3KO (Figure 4h). Furthermore, the number of cells in the atphb3KO root meristem was more than two-fold lower than that in wild-type plants and the average duration of cell division was significantly increased from 23.3 ± 1.7 h (Col-0) to 35.3 ± 2.7 h (atphb3KO). As a result, the atphb3KO root meristem produced only 0.49 ± 0.02 cells h−1, as opposed to 1.7 ± 0.13 cells h−1 for the wild type. Besides the cell division rate, cell expansion was also influenced. Root meristem cells spend most of their growth in the division (meristematic) zone (135 ± 10 h in Col-0; Table 2), and once they leave the actual meristem they expand very rapidly to their mature size in a matter of hours (5 ± 1 h in Col-0). In a wild-type root tip, approximately eight cells were in the expansion phase compared with only five in atphb3KO. Moreover, the rate of cell expansion itself in atphb3KO roots was less than half of that in wild-type roots. This loss was largely compensated in atphb3KO roots by allowing the cells to spend twice as long in the expansion phase (5 ± 1 h for Col-0 versus 10 ± 1 h in atphb3), so in the end the cells could reach a normal mature cell length. In conclusion, AtPHB3 is required to support proficient cell division and expansion rates in growing plant tissues. n.s., not significant. The root tips of wild-type and atphb3KO seedlings were examined by transmission electron microscopy (Figure 4g). A striking difference in atphb3KO sections was the presence of large-sized mitochondria. To quantify this difference, we measured the section plane of mitochondria in multiple sections. A more than two-fold increase in the section plane was noticed [0.076 ± 0.003 μm2 (n = 104) versus 0.163 ± 0.005 μm2 (n = 92) in wild type versus atphb3KO]. Qualitatively, atphb3KO mitochondria had a rounder, egg-like morphology together with a smoother surface than those of the more ruffled wild-type mitochondrial membranes (Figure 4g). By crossing atphb3KO and atphb4KO T-DNA insertion lines, we attempted to generate atphb3KOatphb4KO plants. However, within the F2 progeny no plants homozygous for the two T-DNA insertions could be found with PCR-based genotyping (n = 120) nor homozygous for one insertion and hemizygous for the other. To further address the functional redundancy between the type-I AtPHB genes, we tested whether the atphb3KO growth retardation phenotype could be complemented by the introduction of AtPHB3 or AtPHB4. Therefore, atphb3KO plants were transformed with a Pro35S:AtPHB3 and Pro35S:AtPHB4 construct, respectively. Transformants were selected and homozygous lines were produced. In both complementations, germination and root elongation rates were restored (Supplementary Figure S1), indicating that type-I PHBs are exchangeable for their role in supporting meristem activities. Taken together, these complementation experiments and the inability to retrieve a double mutant indicate that an undefined threshold level of type-I AtPHB is necessary to obtain viable plantlets and to support proficient meristematic activities. AtPHB3 appears to be the predominant type-I AtPHB acting in the mitochondria, because these threshold levels are jeopardized by loss of function of AtPHB3 and not AtPHB4 and total type-I AtPHB protein levels are appreciably reduced only in atphb3KO plants (Figure 4b). We also transformed atphb3KO plants with Pro35S-driven expression constructs containing the type-II AtPHB1, AtPHB2 and AtPHB6. None of the transformants had root growth or germination speed restored, indicative of a distinct functionality of the type-II PHBs (Supplementary Figure S1). Transgenic lines overproducing type-I AtPHBs were produced by transforming Arabidopsis with Pro35S:AtPHB3 and Pro35S:AtPHB4 constructs. Independent transformants with single-locus transgene insertions were retained for further analysis. Increased levels of AtPHB genes in the selected lines were confirmed by RNA and protein blot analyses (Figure 5c). Ectopic expression of AtPHB3 and AtPHB4 did not lead to aberrant phenotypes early in development and root growth rates were identical to those of wild-type plants (data not shown). However, at later developmental stages, both AtPHB3OE and AtPHB4OE had irregularly shaped leaves and, after emergence of the inflorescence, increased shoot branching (Figure 5a,b,d,e). In AtPHB3OE plants, the irregular rosette shapes were most apparent, leading to a reduction in biomass, while shoot branching was most prominent in AtPHB4OE plants. Occasionally, inflorescence fasciations were noted. Overexpressing lines had a shorter stature than wild-type plants (Figure 5a,b,d). [[FIGURE]] To obtain further insights into the downstream effects provoked by AtPHB3 and AtPHB4 perturbations, we used gene expression data as a molecular phenotype. Wild-type, atphb3KO, atphb4KO, Pro35S:AtPHB3 (AtPHB3OE) and Pro35S:AtPHB4 (AtPHB4OE) plants were analyzed by genome-wide microarrays. Transcriptomes of the different transgenic lines were compared at developmental stage 1.04 (CITATION). Except for the growth retardation of atphb3KO seedlings (Figure 4), no phenotypical differences were detectable between wild-type and transgenic plants at this stage. Three independent samples per genotype of pooled seedlings grown in vitro were harvested; RNA was prepared and hybridized to full-genome Affymetrix ATH1 Genechip microarrays. Probe sets with a fold change greater than 2 (P < 0.05 after multiple testing correction) were considered as differentially expressed. The complete inventory of differential probe sets can be found in Supplementary Table S1. Reproducibility of the ATH1 microarray hybridizations was assessed by monitoring the expression of a representative set of genes by real-time RT-PCR on biological replicate experiments (data not shown). In the atphb3KO seedlings, 130 and 100 probe sets were upregulated and downregulated, respectively. A strong effect of the atphb3KO mutation on mitochondrial metabolism – as noted earlier by aberrant mitochondrial phenotypes (Figure 4g) – was also reflected at the transcriptional level. Of the differentially expressed probe sets, 38 were known or predicted to be imported in the mitochondria [the Arabidopsis Subcellular Database (SUBA)], of which seven were involved in oxidative phosphorylation. Other upregulated probe sets included genes associated with transport and glycolysis. Several genes involved in cell wall metabolism and disease resistance were downregulated in atphb3KO seedlings. A breakdown into functional categories of the differential probe sets in atphb3KO seedlings can be found in Supplementary Table S1. Transcriptional changes in atphb4KO plants were minor: only one probe set was upregulated and three were downregulated (including AtPHB4). A high-affinity nitrate transporter was detected in the upregulated probe set, which was also upregulated in atphb3KO plants. MPK12 and an expressed protein (At2g46080) were downregulated. In AtPHB3OE seedlings, 27 probe sets were upregulated and 61 were downregulated. Six genes involved in disease resistance were upregulated and 15 genes predicted or annotated to be imported into the chloroplasts were downregulated. In AtPHB4OE seedlings, 32 probe sets were upregulated and 2 were downregulated. Remarkably, comparison of the differentially expressed probe sets from all four configurations revealed that 29 out of 34 probe sets up- or downregulated in AtPHB4OE lines had similar expression characteristics in atphb3KO plants (Figure 5f and Table 3). MATE, multidrug and toxin extrusion; AAA, [matrix-ATPases] associated with a variety of activities; ABC, ATP-binding cassette; UDP, uridine 5′-diphosphate. With the Genevestigator toolbox, the expression pattern of the 29 AtPHB4OE/atphb3KO-specific probe sets was assessed in more than 2000 publicly available microarray experiments (CITATION). Most of these genes were significantly upregulated under several abiotic stress conditions, mainly salt, UV-B, heat and oxidative stress (Figure 5g). In addition, a Spearman correlation analysis on the microarray data sets from the publicly available AtGenExpress time course experiments of cold, osmotic, salt, oxidative and UV-B stress (160 ATH1 chips; http://www.arabidopsis.org) indicates that these AtPHB4OE/atphb3KO-specific probe sets are co-regulated during abiotic stress conditions (Supplementary Table S2). Remarkably, a set of at least five genes had very high mutual correlation coefficients and was thus strongly co-expressed: At2g04050 (MATE efflux carrier), At2g41730 (expressed mitochondrial protein), At1g05680 (UGT74E2), At4g37370 (cytochrome P450 CYP81D8) and At2g04040 (MATE efflux carrier).
!~MM~! The PHB protein sequences of representative organisms were collected from the non-redundant GenBank protein database and the Populus trichocarpa PHBs from http://genome.jgi-psf.org/Poptr1/Poptr1.home.html. The sequences were aligned with ClustalW (CITATION) and a phylogenetic tree was generated with Treecon (CITATION) with 1000 bootstrap trials. To assess the subcellular localization of the seven AtPHBs based on the amino acid sequences, various prediction software tools available on the World Wide Web were used (Psort, TargetP, MitoProt, Predotar, Softberry and TMHMM2). Genomic sequences for the AtPHBs were collected from http://www.arabidopsis.org. Open reading frames were amplified by PCR from first-strand cDNA of A. thaliana (L). Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col-0). The forward and reverse primers are given in Supplementary Table S3. In a second PCR round, the amplicons were extended with the attB1 and attB2 primers. All products were cloned into pDONR221 (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). The AtPHB ORFs were recombinationally cloned from pDONR221 into the binary vectors pK7FWG2 and pK7WGF2 (CITATION). These constructs were transformed into N. tabacum BY-2 cell suspensions as described (CITATION). Transformed calli were selected and analyzed with a confocal microscope, consisting of an inverted Axiovert 100 M (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/), equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective (numerical aperture 1.2) and an argon ion laser. Mitotracker Red (Molecular Probes; http://www.probes.invitrogen.com) was used as mitochondrial marker for co-localization. Arabidopsis Col-0 seeds were sterilized by overnight incubation with chlorine gas (100 ml 12% NaOCl and 3 ml 37% HCl). Plants were grown on 4.3 g l−1 MS medium (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com/), 0.5 g l−1 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid, 0.1 g l−1 myo-inositol, 20 g l−1 sucrose, 7 g l−1 plant tissue culture agar (LabM, http://www.labm.com/), 0.5 mg l−1 nicotinic acid, 0.5 mg l−1 pyridoxine and 1 mg l−1 thiamine) at 21°C and 65 μE m−2 sec−1 radiation in a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod. Arabidopsis plants were transformed with the A. tumefaciens-mediated floral dip (CITATION). Transformants with the bar resistance gene were selected by spraying with 40 mg l−1 Pestanal (glufosinate ammonium; Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) or on MS medium containing 5 mg l−1 glufosinate ammonium. Transformant lines with a single T-DNA locus were selected by segregation analysis. Tandem affinity purification experiments were carried out according to CITATION. In short, the AtPHB3-coding sequence was cloned by recombination into the pKCTAP vector generating a Pro35S:AtPHB3-TAP cassette (pKCATPHB3TAP). Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were stably transformed by A. tumefaciens-mediated co-cultivation with pKCATPHB3TAP. Transformed Arabidopsis cells were selected and transferred to liquid medium for upscaling. Expression levels of TAP-tagged proteins were checked by protein blotting with an anti-CBP antibody (data not shown). In a first round of affinity purification, protein extracts of 15 g of plant material were incubated with an IgG resin. Bound complexes were released and eluted from the resin by tag cleavage with TEV protease. In a second affinity step on a calmodulin agarose column, co-eluting non-interacting proteins and the TEV protease were removed with the flow-through. Finally, both the AtPHB3 bait and interacting proteins were eluted from the calmodulin agarose via EGTA-mediated removal of calcium. Eluted proteins were separated on 4–12% NuPAGE gels, excised and analyzed by MS. To increase the stringency of the data set, contaminating proteins because of experimental background as determined by CITATION were systematically subtracted from the lists of co-purified proteins. Most contaminants were highly abundant proteins, such as chaperones, cytoskeleton proteins, ribosomal proteins, metabolic enzymes or protein translation factors. AtPHB genes were cloned by recombination from pDONR221 to the p35S overexpression vector pB7WG2 (CITATION) and transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0. Overexpression of AtPHB3 and AtPHB4 was confirmed by RNA gel blotting with digoxigenin- labeled AtPHB3 or AtPHB4 full-length cDNA (Roche Diagnostics, http://www.roche.com/), by real-time PCR on an iCycler (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) with a Real-Time PCR kit with SYBR-green (Invitrogen) and by protein gel blotting as described (CITATION). Overexpression of the other genes was also confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. Actin-related protein 7 (At3g60830) was used as a housekeeping gene with Universal ProbeLibrary probe no. 147 (Roche Diagnostics). Primer sequences can be found in Supplementary Table S3. Homozygote plants from the GABI-Kat line (CITATION) GABI_535 G10 with a T-DNA insertion into the second exon of AtPHB4 were selected by PCR with primer sequences generated against the genomic regions flanking the insert and a standard primer for the 3′ end of the insertion sequence, to obtain homozygous insertion lines (for primers, see Supplementary Table S3; CITATION). The SALK lines SALK_020707 with an insertion in the AtPHB3-coding region were ordered from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and screened by PCR for homozygous lines (for primers, see Supplementary Table S3). The upstream AtPHB promoter region, the first exon, the first intron and approximately 20 bp of the second exon were amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis Col-0 genomic DNA (Supplementary Table S3). All PCR products were cloned into pBGWSF7 (CITATION), generating an in-frame GFP-GUS fusion. All constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0 and assayed for GUS staining (CITATION). Samples were photographed with a stereomicroscope (Stemi SV11; Zeiss) or with a differential interference contrast microscope (Leica, http://www.leica.com/). For the lateral root induction assay, supplements consisted of 10 μM NPA (Duchefa) or 10 μm NAA (Sigma-Aldrich). Arabidopsis Col-0 and homozygous AtPHB3OE, AtPHB4OE, atphb3KO and atphb4KO seeds were sown on half-strength MS plant medium in triplicate. Per triplicate, the plantlets were harvested at developmental stage 1.04 (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated with TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen). Each triplicate of Arabidopsis Col-0 and homozygous transgenic plants was hybridized to one Affymetrix chip (GeneChip®, Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array; Affymetrix, http://www.affymetrix.com). For each hybridization, 5 μg of total RNA was used and analyzed with Affymetrix chips at the VIB Microarray Facility (Leuven, Belgium) under the manufacturer’s conditions (http://https://www.affymetrix.com). Raw data were processed in the bioconductor software package (CITATION) with the statistical algorithm robust multichip average (RMA; CITATION). The expression values were analyzed with the limma bioconductor package (CITATION) and a false discovery rate correction for multiple testing was applied (CITATION). Genes with a differential regulation of at least twofold and a P-value smaller than 0.05 were selected. For the housekeeping gene, the methods were as described above, whereas for At2g21640, At2g04050 and At2g41730 a real-time PCR kit with SYBR-green was used (for primers and probes, see Supplementary Table S3). With the ‘Response Viewer’ tool of Genevestigator, the expression profiles of genes to different stimuli were analyzed (CITATION). Tissue-specific expression values were examined with the ‘Gene Atlas’ tool. For more information on the described experiments, see http://https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch. Log2-transformed fold-change values were hierarchically clustered for genes and experiments by average linkage in GeneCluster (eisen@genome.stanford.edu). For the correlation analysis, the publicly available Affymetrix data from AtGenExpress (http://www.arabidopsis.org) on control versus cold, osmotic, salt (Kudla’s laboratory), oxidative (Bartels’ laboratory) and UV-B (Harter’s laboratory) stresses (160 ATH1 chips) were normalized with RMA and replicates were averaged. For each of the 34 differentially expressed probe sets in AtPHB4OE plants, the Spearman rank correlation coefficients with all 22 810 ATH1 probe sets were calculated (R statistical computing environment; http://www.r-project.org; CITATION). Probe sets were assigned ranks based on decreasing correlation coefficients. Wild-type and atphb3KO seeds were grown in vitro on vertical MS plates for 1 week. After full germination, root lengths were marked daily, the average root growth rates measured with the imagej software suite and the root tips photographed under a differential interference contrast microscope after 1 week. Images were stitched with the panaview software. Cell length profiles were made for seven wild-type and five transgenic roots and the different growth parameters were calculated according to CITATION. Arabidopsis root tips were excised, briefly immersed in dextran 15–20% and frozen immediately in a high-pressure freezer (EM Pact, Leica Microsystems; http://www.leica-microsystems.com). Over a period of 4 days, tissues were freeze substituted in dry acetone containing 1% OsO4 and 0.1% glutaraldehyde as follows: −90°C for 26 h, 2°C h−1 temperature increase over 15 h, −60°C for 8 h, 2°C h−1 temperature increase over 15 h, −30°C for 8 h with rinsing three times with acetone in a Leica EM Automatic Freeze Substitution. At the end, samples were slowly warmed up to 4°C and infiltrated at 4°C stepwise in Spurr’s resin over 3 days. Ultrathin sections of gold interference color were cut with an ultramicrotome (ultracut E; Leica Microsystems) and collected on Formvar-coated copper slot grids. Sections were post-stained in an LKB ultrastainer (http://www.lkb.com.au/) for 40 min in uranyl acetate at 40°C and 10 min in lead stain at 20°C. Grids were viewed with a transmission electron microscope JEOL 1010 operating at 80 kV.
