!~ABS~! Potassium (K+) is an essential nutrient for plant growth and development. Plants often adapt to low K+ conditions by increasing their K+ uptake capability. Recent studies have led to the identification of a calcium signaling pathway that enables plants to act in this capacity. Calcium is linked to two calcineurin B-like calcium sensors (CBLs) and a target kinase (CBL-interacting protein kinase 23 or CIPK23) that, in turn, appears to phosphorylate and activate the potassium channel, Arabidopsis K+ transporter 1 (AKT1), responsible for K+ uptake in roots. Here, we report evidence that this regulatory mechanism is more elaborate than earlier envisaged. The recently described pathway is part of an extensive network whereby several CBLs interact with multiple CIPKs in the activation of the potassium channel, AKT1. The physical interactions among the CBL, CIPK, and AKT1 components provide a mechanism for specifying the members of the CBL and CIPK families functional in AKT1 regulation. The interaction between the CIPKs and AKT1 was found to involve the kinase domain of the CIPK component and the ankyrin repeat domain of the channel. Furthermore, we identified a 2C-type protein phosphatase that physically interacts and inactivates the AKT1 channel. These findings provide evidence that the calcium-sensitive CBL and CIPK families together with 2C-type protein phosphatases form a protein phoshporylation/dephosphorylation network that regulates the AKT1 channel for K+ transport in plants.
!~RES~! The finding that AKT1 is a target for a CBL–CIPK pathway has uncovered a mechanism for the regulation of a plant K+ channel by protein phosphorylation (CITATION, CITATION). As both CBL and CIPK families consist of multiple members that can interact to form an integrated CBL–CIPK network, we suspected that the regulation of AKT1 by the pathway recently identified may be more complex than thought earlier (CITATION, CITATION). The finding that AKT1 activity was not completely eliminated in either the cipk23 single mutant or the cbl1cbl9 double mutant was consistent with this possibility (CITATION). To examine this point further, we applied a yeast two-hybrid assay to probe the interaction between AKT1 and each of the 25 CIPKs. These experiments revealed that, in addition to CIPK23, at least two other CIPKs, CIPK6 and CIPK16, interacted with the C terminus of AKT1 (FIG-REF A). However, among CIPK family members, CIPK6, CIPK16, and CIPK23 are not the most related in overall protein sequence. For instance, CIPK3 and CIPK9 are the closest homologues to CIPK23, yet these two CIPKs failed to interact with AKT1 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The three CIPKs physically associated with AKT1 should interact with a set of CBLs to provide CBL–CIPK complexes for regulating AKT1. To identify these partners, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays using the three CIPKs and all CBLs. Interestingly, despite the low overall sequence similarity in the three CIPK proteins, they interacted with the same members of the CBL family, including CBL1, CBL2, CBL3, and CBL9 (FIG-REF B). CBL1 and CBL9 share high sequence identity, while CBL2 and CBL3 are also highly homologous to each other. This result possibly suggests that, after activation by the four calcium-sensing proteins, these three CIPKs function in the same signal transduction pathway. The assays described above led to the identification of four CBLs and three CIPKs forming multiple complexes that interacted with AKT1. Such an interaction network may be functionally relevant to the regulation of AKT1 activity. To test this idea, we coexpressed AKT1 with various combinations of the CBL–CIPK complexes in Xenopus oocytes and measured AKT1 activity. Consistent with the earlier studies (CITATION, CITATION), the CBL1–CIPK23 duplex strongly activated AKT1 (FIG-REF C). Like CIPK23, CIPK6 and CIPK16 both activated AKT1 in a CBL1-dependent manner, although the magnitude of AKT1 activity was lower than with CIPK23 (FIG-REF D and E). In this experiment, we also tested the effect of CIPK1 and found that AKT1 was not activated by the CIPK1–CBL1 combination (FIG-REF B). We noted that CIPK1 interacted with CBL1 but did not physically interact with AKT1 (data not shown) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In addition to CBL1, we tested whether the two other CBLs (CBL2 and CBL3) that interacted with the three CIPKs (CIPK23, CIPK6, and CIPK16) enhanced the activation of AKT1 by these CIPKs. To this end, we coexpressed AKT1 in oocytes with each of the possible combinations formed by CBL1, CBL2, CBL3, CBL5, or CBL9 and the three CIPKs found to interact with AKT1. As shown in FIG-REF, CBL5, a component that does not interact with these CIPKs, had no effect on the level of AKT1 activation (FIG-REF C–E). However, CBL1, CBL2, CBL3, and CBL9 all dramatically enhanced the magnitude of AKT1 activation by CIPK23, CIPK6, and CIPK16 (FIG-REF C–E). Among the CBLs tested, CBL1 produced the strongest activation, and CBL2, CBL3, and CBL9 showed similar, but lower, effects (FIG-REF C–E). Among the three CIPKs interacting with AKT1, CIPK23 was more effective than CIPK6 or CIPK16 (FIG-REF C–E). These results show that physical interaction with CBLs is required for the activation of CIPKs and that the interaction between CIPKs and AKT1 defines the specificity of CIPK members for AKT1 channel activation. The cytoplasmic region of AKT1 available for interaction with CIPKs consists of cAMP binding, ankyrin repeat, and KHA domains. It has been shown that these C-terminal cytosolic domains are important for the assembly of the AKT1 tetrameric channel (CITATION), but little is known about their function in the regulation of channel activity. The finding of an AKT1–CIPK interaction indicates that at least part of the cytosolic domain of AKT1 mediates regulation of the channel by CIPKs. To investigate which AKT1 domain interacts with CIPK23, we made several truncated forms of the AKT1 C-terminal region and tested their interaction with CIPK23 in the yeast two-hybrid system. The analysis revealed that the ankyrin domain, which consists of six repeats, is sufficient for interaction with the kinase (FIG-REF A). Further analysis indicated that all six ankyrin repeats are required for the interaction and that deletion of any one abolished the ability to interact with CIPK23 (FIG-REF A). We conducted similar yeast two-hybrid assays with two other AKT1-interacting CIPKs (CIPK6 and CIPK16) and found that, like CIPK23, both interacted with the ankyrin repeat domain of AKT1 (FIG-REF B and C). As the ankyrin repeat domain is a common feature of several Shaker-like K+-channel proteins in Arabidopsis, this finding suggests that other K+ channels with this domain may interact with CIPKs, thereby forming an even larger network for CBL–CIPK ion channel regulation in plants. [[FIGURE]] As AKT1 is one of the first physiological substrates identified for the CIPK family, it serves as a useful model system for further characterizing the kinase–substrate interaction. To this end, we dissected CIPK to identify the domain responsible for interacting with the channel protein. CIPKs consist of two major domains, the kinase and CBL-interacting domains. Using CIPK23, we found that the kinase domain interacted with the ankyrin repeat domain of the AKT1 substrate (FIG-REF A). On further analysis, we observed that the catalytic domain (the large lobe in the 3D structure) was involved in this interaction (FIG-REF A). Similarly, the kinase domain of CIPK6 and CIPK16 was responsible for their interaction with the ankyrin repeat domain of AKT1 (FIG-REF B and C). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of their structures suggested that CBL1 and CBL9 have a myristoylation site in the N terminus that could function to recruit these proteins and their interacting partners to the cell membranes. Both CBL1 and CBL9 have been shown to recruit CIPK23 to the plasma membrane of plant cells (CITATION, CITATION). To examine the possibility that myristoylated CBLs recruit CIPKs to the plasma membrane to facilitate the interaction of CIPKs with AKT1, mutagenized forms of CBL1 and CBL9 (CBL1G2A and CBL9G2A) in which the glycine residue of the second amino acid from their N terminus was changed to alanine were expressed in the oocyte (FIG-REF A). Because this glycine is the site for myristoylation, the mutant CBLs should not be associated with cell membranes if this idea were valid. However, coexpression of CBL1G2A with CIPK23 and AKT1 still produced a significant level of inward current, ≈60% that of wild-type CBL1 (FIG-REF B). The CBL1G2A had a similar effect on currents produced by CIPK6- or the CIPK16–AKT1 complex (data not shown). The myristoylation mutant of CBL9 reduced the current produced by CIPK23–AKT1 to a similar degree (data not shown). A palmitoylation site at the cysteine residue adjacent to the myristoylated glycine was identified in the CBL1 (FIG-REF A). As palmitoylation has been shown to enhance the affinity of myristoylated proteins to the plasma membrane (CITATION), we tested the potential role of palmitoylation by mutating the cysteine residue of CBL1G2A mutant to a glycine residue (FIG-REF A). This double mutant induced a level of AKT1 current similar to that of CBL1G2A coexpressed with CIPK23 and AKT1 (FIG-REF B). These results collectively indicated that, while contributing to the activity of CBL–CIPK complex, lipid modification of the CBLs was not absolutely required for activation of the AKT1 channel in the oocyte expression systems. [[FIGURE]] To test the contribution of lipid modification and CIPK–AKT1 physical interaction in AKT1 activation, we coexpressed the truncated form of CIPK23 containing only the kinase domain with intact AKT1 (FIG-REF C). The kinase domain alone should be capable of physically interacting with AKT1 (FIG-REF) and more active than the wild type because it lacks the autoinhibitory domain in the C-terminal region. Although the full-length CIPK23 induced a low activity of AKT1, the CIPK23 kinase domain enhanced channel activity to a much greater degree (FIG-REF D). To analyze the role of myristoylation–directed membrane localization further, we constructed a plasmid to express the CIPK23 kinase domain fused with myristoylation domain (MD) derived from CBL1 (FIG-REF C) and expressed this fusion protein with the AKT1 channel in oocytes. The lipid modification of the kinase domain enhanced AKT1 activity compared with that induced with the unmodified CIPK23 kinase domain (FIG-REF D). However, the AKT1 current activated by the CBL1–CIPK23 complex was still greater than that produced with any of the other combinations (FIG-REF B and D). We concluded that the modification of CBLs with lipids enhances CBL–CIPK activity by localizing the complex to the plasma membrane while, as shown above, the physical interaction between AKT1 and CIPKs is absolutely required for activation of the channel. Identification of the CBL–CIPK network that regulates AKT1 activity provides a model system to study the regulation of plant ion channels by protein phosphorylation. When phosphorylation activates an ion channel in response to a signaling event, in this case calcium elevation in response to low K+, the event will be transient and countered by a signaling terminator leading to dephosphorylation, i.e., inactivation and return of the channel to the basal state. In search for a protein phosphatase that could serve as a signaling terminator, we applied the yeast two-hybrid assay to identify candidate protein phosphatases that interact directly with AKT1. Because earlier studies showed that AKT2, another AKT-type channel, interacts with PP2CA (CITATION, CITATION), we focused on PP2CAs. Among the five PP2CA subfamily members tested (ABI1, ABI2, HAB1, HAB2, and a novel member, At1g07430), only the novel member interacted with AKT1 (FIG-REF A). We therefore named this PP2C as AIP1 (for AKT1-interacting PP2C 1). Because CIPKs are known to interact with PP2CAs such as ABI1 and ABI2 (CITATION), we tested whether AIP1 and CIPK23 could interact with each other. The yeast two-hybrid results indicated that AIP1 (but not other PP2CAs) interacted with CIPK23 that also interacts with AKT1. The three components, CIPK23, AIP1, and AKT1, thus appeared to interact mutually and potentially form a molecular complex. [[FIGURE]] If AIP1 functions as an active AKT1 phosphatase in a manner opposing a corresponding kinase (CIPK23), AIP1 could potentially modify AKT1 channel activity. To test this possibility, we coexpressed AIP1 and each of the other PP2CAs tested above in the yeast two-hybrid system with AKT1 and CBL1–CIPK23 in the oocyte system. FIG-REF B shows that AIP1 significantly reduced AKT1 activity, suggesting that the phosphatase functions as a negative regulator of the channel by counteracting activity of the CBL–CIPK complexes. Other PP2CA members (ABI1, ABI2, HAB1, HAB2, and PP2CA) had no effect on AKT1 current (data not shown). These results suggested that the CIPK kinases and a PP2C (AIP1) physically interact with the AKT1 channel protein and modify its activity by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation.
!~MM~! The truncated AKT1 activation domain (AD) constructs were generated by PCR using different pairs of primers. Each of the PCR products was digested with EcoRI and SalI and cloned into pGAT7Rec vector. To create truncated CIPK23, CIPK6, and CIPK16, PCR was conducted with different pairs of primers. Each of the PCR products was digested with NdeI and SalI and cloned into a pGBKT7 vector. To express the proteins in oocytes for electrophysiological experiments, we cloned CBL2, CBL3, CBL5 and CIPK1, CIPK6, CIPK16, the kinase domains of CIPK23, and a full-length CIPK23 into the pGEMHE vector. Myristoylation and palmitoylation mutants of CBLs and the kinase domain with myristoylation site fusion were produced by using PCR-based mutagenesis and cloned into pGEMHE. The CBL1, CBL9, AKT1, and CIPK23 constructs for expression in Xenopus oocytes have been described (CITATION). The binding domain (BD) vector constructs and the AD vector constructs were used for yeast two-hybrid analysis in appropriate pairs described in the figure legends. To introduce AD and BD plasmids into yeast strain PJ69-4A, a lithium acetate-mediated transformation method was used. Transformants were selected on synthetic complete agar medium (SC)-leucin-tryptophan medium and then transferred to the interaction selection media (SC-leucine-tryptophan-histidine supplemented with 1.5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-aminotriazole) to score growth as an indicator of protein–protein interaction (CITATION). The concentration of the capped cRNA was determined by A260/A280 and adjusted to a final concentration of 0.5 μg/μl, except for that of AIP1 cRNA (1.5 μg/μl). The oocytes were bathed with a solution containing 100 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 1 mM CaCl2, and 10 mM Hepes (pH adjusted to 7.3 with 1 M KOH) and perfused with the same solution. The pipette solution contained 3 M KCl. Two-electrode voltage clamp recordings were performed to measure the activation and deactivation kinetics of currents, voltage steps of 48 to −132 mV (in 12-mV decrements, 2.25-s duration) were applied from a 0.25-s prepulse to −40 mV. Histograms were generated from the pooled current reached after 0.9 s of each voltage-clamp episode. Statistical analyses were performed by using either Student's paired test or unpaired t tests as appropriate, and differences were considered to be significant at P < 0.05. Data are presented as representative recordings or as mean ± SE of n observations, in which n is the number of samples.
