!~ABS~! Members of a large family of cellulose synthase-like genes (CSLs) are predicted to encode glycosyl transferases (GTs) involved in the biosynthesis of plant cell walls. The CSLA and CSLF families are known to contain mannan and glucan synthases, respectively, but the products of other CSLs are unknown. Here we report the effects of disrupting ATCSLD5 expression in Arabidopsis. Both stem and root growth were significantly reduced in ATCSLD5 knock-out plants, and these plants also had increased susceptibility to the cellulose synthase inhibitor isoxaben. Antibody and carbohydrate-binding module labelling indicated a reduction in the level of xylan in stems, and in vitro GT assays using microsomes from stems revealed that ATCSLD5 knock-out plants also had reduced xylan and homogalacturonan synthase activity. Expression in Nicotiana benthamiana of ATCSLD5 and ATCSLD3, fluorescently tagged at either the C- or the N-terminal, indicated that these GTs are likely to be localized in the Golgi apparatus. However, the position of the fluorescent tag affected the subcellular localization of both proteins. The work presented provides a comprehensive analysis of the effects of disrupting ATCSLD5 in planta, and the possible role(s) of this gene and other ATCSLDs in cell wall biosynthesis are discussed.
!~RES~! Four T-DNA homozygote insertion mutant lines were generated, all in the Col-0 ecotype, with insertions in different parts of the ATCSLD5 gene, designated atcsld5-1–atcsld5-4 (Figure 1a). Although atcsld5-2 and atcsld5-3 had insertions in the promoter region whilst atcsld5-1 and atcsld5-4 had insertions in the first and last exons of the ATCSLD5 gene, respectively. Levels of ATCSLD5 transcript were assessed using RT-PCR (Figure 1b). Only line atcsld5-1 showed an apparent complete loss of ATCSLD5 expression, and most of the work described here involves this line. Complementation lines were generated by insertion of the wild-type (WT) ATCSLD5 gene (driven by its own promoter) into atcsld5-1. RT-PCR analyses of two such lines, atcsld5-1 + WTD5-1 and atcsld5-1 + WTD5-2, indicated that ATCSLD5 transcript levels were indeed restored to at least WT levels (Figure 1c). [[FIGURE]] The stem height of mature (7-week olds) atcsld5-1 knock-out plants was significantly reduced compared with both WT plants and the atcsld5-2 line, which retained ATCSLD5 expression (Figure 2a). Stem growth was reduced in atcsld5-1 during stem development (Figure 2b), and the root length of 10-day-old atcsld5-1 seedlings was also less than that for WT control seedlings (Figure 2c). The diameter of rosettes was also reduced in atcsld5-1 compared with WT (Figure 2d,e). All of these reduced growth characteristics were restored to WT levels following complementation with ATCSLD5 driven by its own promoter. As shown in Figure 3a,b, the stem growth of complemented lines was similar to WT Col-0 transformed with empty vector. Similarly, the root growth of seedlings of one of these lines (atcsld5-1 + WTD5-1) was similar to WT plants transformed with empty vector (Figure 3c), as was rosette diameter (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Transverse sections were taken through main inflorescence stems of 5-week-old plants at three points: ‘top’ (approximately 2 cm below the stem apex), ‘middle’ (the mid point of stems) and ‘base’ (approximately 1 cm above the rosette leaves). Sections were labelled with a panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) with specificity for cell wall polymers including cellulose, hemicelluloses and pectin. No differences in labelling between WT and atcsld5-1 stems were observed with probes for α-(1-5)-arabinan, xyloglucan, homogalacturonan, β-(1-4)-mannan, crystalline cellulose, xylogalacturonan or β-(1-3)-glucan (data not shown). This was also the case for β-(1-4)-galactan (which is shown as a representative of where binding was the same in stems of WT and atcsld5-1; Figure 4a–f). In contrast, labelling with a mAb (LM10) with specificity for β-(1-4)-xylan indicated that, compared with WT plants of the same age, the occurrence of xylan was reduced in stems of atcsld5-1 plants (Figure 4g–l). The reduction was most pronounced in the top portion of stems (Figure 4g,h), but was also apparent to a lesser extent in sections taken from the middle and the base of stems (Figure 4i–l). In the top portion of WT stems, xylan was present in both xylem and interfasicular tissue, whereas in sections from atcsld5-1 plants, labelling was restricted to xylem tissue only. β-(1-4)-Xylan was also reduced somewhat in sections taken from the middle and base of stems of atcsld5-1 plants. Similar results were obtained using a carbohydrate-binding module (CBM22), which also has specificity for xylan (data not shown). It was clear from immunocytochemical analysis of both WT and mutant plants that the occurrence of xylan in stems was modulated in a gradient from base to apex, with the greatest abundance of xylan at the stem base. It was therefore important to determine whether the reduced occurrence of xylan observed in atcsld5-1 was simply a result of reduced stem growth, or was independent of this. To do this, we compared both age-matched and developmentally matched plants. In the case of the latter, sections were taken from atcsld5-1 plants that were 4 days older than WT plants of the same stem height. These labelling experiments established that atcsld5-1 plants that were developmentally matched to WT plants also had reduced levels of β-(1-4)-xylan (data not shown). Staining with toluidine blue was used to visualize the cellular anatomy of stem sections. No differences were observed between WT and atcsld5-1 plants (Figure 4m,n), suggesting that the reduction in mAb and CBM labelling in stems of atcsld5-1 plants was the result of reduced β-(1-4)-xylan in cell walls rather than a reduction in the number of cells with β-(1-4)-xylan-containing cell walls. No differences in labelling between WT and atcsld5-1 were observed for any mAbs or CBMs when applied to roots of mature plants and seedlings, and seedling hypocotyls (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Glycosyl transferase assays were performed using microsomes extracted from developmentally matched atcsld5-1 and WT plants of the same stem height. As shown in Figure 6a, xylan synthase activity was reduced in atcsld5-1 plants compared with WT plants. To a somewhat lesser extent, HG synthase activity was also reduced in atcsld5-1 plants (Figure 6a). In contrast, there was no difference in glucan synthase activity between atcsld5-1 and WT (data not shown). The products of the xylan synthase assay were digested with both xylanase and proteinase K in order to determine if the 14C xylose had been incorporated into xylan, or a xylosidated protein. As shown in Figure 6b, almost all 14C xylose was released by xylanase and very little by proteinase K, indicating that the product formed was predominantly xylan. [[FIGURE]] The Genevestigator database (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at), which collates information derived from over 1000 transcript profiling experiments, was used for initial in silico analysis of ATCSLD5 expression (Figure 7). The gene atlas function provides information about the location of gene expression, and indicated that ATCSLD5 is expressed to some extent in all organs/tissues – but is expressed at highest levels in the shoot apex and hypocotyl (Figure 7a). The meta-analyzer tool, which reports on gene expression during development, indicated that ATCSLD5 is expressed most abundantly during the stem elongation phase between 21 and 25 days (Figure 7b). Plants transformed with the β-glucuronidase gene driven by the ATCSLD5 genomic promoter were used to provide more detailed information about ATCSLD5 expression (Figure 8). In cotyledons, cauline leaves, rosette leaves and roots, GUS activity was localized predominantly in vascular tissues (Figure 8a–d). GUS activity was essentially absent from flowers and siliques, but some weak activity was evident at the silique/pedicel junction (Figure 8e). In sections taken from the middle region of stems, GUS activity was most abundant in a layer of cells between the secondary xylem interfasicular region and cortex, corresponding to the position of the vascular cambium. Some activity was also present in phloem tissue, and weak activity in cortical and pith parenchyma cells (Figure 8f). It should be noted that previous work has indicated that caution is required when interpreting GUS expression in phloem tissue, because of the possibility of the loading of GUS reaction products into phloem via symplastic connections (CITATION). The small size of phloem cells may also lead to misleadingly high colour densities (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of ATCSLD5 was determined in vivo by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana (Figure 9). Previous work to determine the subcellular localization of another ATCSLD family member, ATCSLD3 (KOJAK), concluded that this protein is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER; CITATION). In this earlier work a C-terminal GFP fusion of ATCSLD3 was used, and we repeated this for both ATCSLD3 and ATCSLD5 (except that YFP was used instead of GFP). Confocal laser scanning microscopy of transformed plants showed that ATCSLD5-YFP localized as a filigree network within the cytoplasm between the vacuole and the plasma membrane that is characteristic of the ER (Figure 9a). This localization was confirmed by co-infiltration with the ER marker protein GFP-HDEL (Figure 9b), and when signals from the two fluorescent proteins were merged a nearly complete overlap was obtained (Figure 9c). The same result was obtained using ATCSLD3-YFP (data not shown). Similar experiments were performed using ATCSLD5-YFP co-infiltrated with the Golgi marker protein STtmd-GFP (Figure 9d–f). As expected, the signal from STtmd-GFP had a punctuate distribution typical of Golgi apparatus localization (Figure 9e), and merging the ATCSLD5-YFP and STtmd-GFP signals indicated very limited overlap (Figure 9f). These data suggested that ATCSLD5, like ATCSLD3, is ER localized. However, a considerable body of evidence indicates that GTs involved in cell wall biosyntheses are located either at the plasma membrane (in the case of the CESAs) or at the Golgi apparatus, and not at the ER. Furthermore, proteomic LOPIT (localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging) analysis has recently demonstrated that ATCSLD3 is in fact localized in the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). With this mind we speculated that the fusion of fluorescent proteins to the C-terminal of ATCSLDs might disrupt normal targeting and lead to an ER localization via a default pathway. Therefore, we also analysed an N-terminal fusion of ATCSLD5 (Figure 9g–l). The YFP-ATCSLD5 fusion produced a punctuate distribution of signal (Figure 9g), and a merging of signals obtained from co-infiltrated YFP-ATCSLD5 and the ER marker GFP-HDEL revealed essentially no overlap (Figure 9i). In contrast, when YFP-ATCSLD5 was co-infiltrated with the Golgi apparatus marker STtmd-GFP, the signals obtained were nearly identical (Figure 9j,k), with a high degree of overlap in the merged signals (Figure 9l). This was also the case for YFP-ATCSLD3 (data not shown). Taken together these data indicate that ATCSLD5 is likely to be located in the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] Using global transcript profiling, we have previously demonstrated that the expression of ATCSLD5 was highly and differentially expressed when Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were habituated to grow in the cellulose synthase inhibitor isoxaben (CITATION). As increased ATCSLD5 expression was correlated to the ability of cells to grow in isoxaben, we were interested to see if the disruption of ATCSLD5 expression in seedlings resulted in increased sensitivity to isoxaben when incorporated into growth medium (Figure 10). The roots of atcsld5-1 seedlings transformed with empty vector (atcsld5-1 + EV) were shorter than those of WT seedlings transformed with empty vector (WT Col-0 + EV), and the root length of both WT Col-0 + EV and atcsld5-1 seedlings was severely reduced when grown in 4 nm isoxaben. However, the degree of reduction was significantly greater for atcsld5-1 + EV compared with WT Col-0 + EV seedlings. However, when atcsld5-1 seedlings complemented with the WT ATCSLD5 gene (atcsld5-1 + WTD5) were grown in isoxaben, the degree of reduction in root length was similar to that of WT Col-0 + EV seedlings grown in isoxaben. These data indicate that disruption of ATCSLD5 expression was correlated with increased sensitivity to isoxaben. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! T-DNA knock-out lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://arabidopsis.info). Lines homozygous for T-DNA insertions were identified by PCR using oligonucleotides specific for each insertion line. All work presented here was carried out in homozygous mutants and their homozygosity was confirmed in two successive generations. Seeds were surface sterilized, sown on plates containing MS media (1x Murashige and Skoog salts, 8 g l−1 agar, 1x B5 vitamins, 10.8 g l−1 sucrose) and incubated for 48 h at 4°C in the dark. Plates were transferred to a growth room at 21°C with 16-h light/8-h dark and incubated for 1 week. Seedlings were then transplanted to soil with solid fertilizer and grown at 22°C with cycles of 10-h light/14-h dark. For complementation experiments, 7-week-old plants were vacuum infiltrated with suspensions of the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 bearing constructs containing ATCSLD5 with its own promoter region using previously described procedures (CITATION). Selected seedlings were grown in the presence of isoxaben as follows: Isoxaben (36138 PESTANAL, analytical standard; Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) was prepared as a 0.1 m stock solution in dimethyl sulphoxide. Seeds were surface sterilized and sown on plates containing MS media and either 4 nm isoxaben or no isoxaben. Plates with seeds were incubated for 48 h at 4°C in the dark and then transferred to a growth room at 21°C with 8-h light/16-h dark and incubated for 2 weeks, after which the length of the primary root was determined for each of the seedlings. Total RNA was extracted from 6-week-old plants using TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Reverse transcription reactions were carried out using the ImPromII reverse transcription system (Promega, http://www.promega.com). Subsequent PCRs were carried out using 2 μl of the reverse transcription reactions: 2 mm MgCl2, 200 μm dNTPs, 0.4 μm primers and 1 unit of Taq polymerase. The PCRs were subjected to the following temperature cycling in a thermal cycler (Robo Cycler; Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com): 94°C for 2 min, followed by 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 sec, 53°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 1 min. A final extension of 5 min at 72°C was used. The products were separated in a 1% agarose gel. An identical reaction using primers specific for the elongation factor-α were used as controls for the level of RNA. Hand sections of stems from 6-week-old plants and resin-embedded roots and hypocotyls were prepared as described in Willats et al. (2001, 2004), respectively. mAb and CBM binding was detected using an FITC-conjugated secondary antibody (anti-rat, whole molecule; Sigma-Aldrich), and sections were observed using an epifluorescence microscope (BH2; Olympus, http://www.olympus-global.com) and images were collected using a 36-bit digital camera (Coolsnap; Media Cybernetics, http://www.mediacy.com). The anti-xylan mAb (LM10) and CBM (CBM22) used in this study are described in McCartney et al. (2005, 2004), respectively. For complementation of the atcsld5-1 knock-out mutant, the corresponding ATCSLD5 genomic DNA was amplified from the BAC clone T2I1 (obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resources Center, http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm) using oligonucleotides that annealed 1279-bp upstream of the start codon (GGTACCGATCAACCGGAACCAAACAC) and 392-bp downstream of the stop codon (CTCTAGAGAAATTGTGCCTAATGACGTGTTCTTG) of the predicted ATCSLD5 open reading frame (ORF). Pfu ultra DNA polymerase (Stratagene) was used for this amplification. The 5412-kb product obtained was ligated into pGEMTeasy (Promega) and transformed in Escherichia coli XL1Blue using standard procedures. After confirming that the sequence of the clone corresponded to the ATCSLD5 genomic sequence, it was digested with XbaI and ligated into pCAMBIA2300 using XbaI and SpeI restriction sites. The resulting clone was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and was used for plant transformation using the floral-dip method (CITATION). The empty vector pCAMBIA2300 was used as the negative control for complementation experiments. For expression studies using β-glucuronidase as a reporter gene, a construct was generated using the promoter region of ATCSLD5 as follows: the region encompassing 1263-bp upstream of the predicted start codon of the gene was amplified from genomic DNA using specific oligonucleotides (CTCTAGATGCAGCGAATCTTCTCTTTG and CGATATCCTTTGGTTCACAATTAGCAGTGAACC). The PCR fragment was then cloned into pGEM-TEASY and subcloned in front of the β-glucuronidase reporter gene of pCAMBIA 3301 using the NcoI and XbaI sites. The genomic region of ATCSLD5 (ATGGTGAAATCAGCAGC and TCAAGGGAATTGAAACTGC) and ATCSLD3 (ATGGCGTCTAATAATCATTTCATG and TCATGGGAAAGTGAAAGATC) were amplified with the indicated primers from genomic DNA from Arabidopsis using Phusion polymerase (Finnzymes; http://www.finnzymes.fi). The resulting PCR products were purified by Qiagen PCR purification kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) and subsequently served as templates in the following constructs obtained by the USER cloning method (CITATION). ATCSLD5-YFP (CITATION) was constructed with primers GGCTTAAUATGGTGAAATCAGCAGC and GGTTTAAUCCAGGGAATTGAAACTGCATATAG and was cloned in pCAMBIA230035SuYFP. CSLD3-YFP was constructed with primers GGCTTAAUATGGCGTCTAATAATCATTTCATG and GGTTTAAUCCTGGGAAAGTGAAAGATCCTC and was cloned in pCAMBIA230035SuYFP. Primers were designed in such a way that the stop codon of ATCSLD5 and ATCSLD3 were omitted, and the reading frame maintained with the downstream fluorescent protein of the fusion vector. YFP-ATCSLD5 was constructed with primers GGCTTAAUATGGTGAAATCAGCAGC and GGTTTAAUTCAAGGGAATTGAAACTGCAT and was cloned in pCAMBIA330035SYFPu. The cloned PCR products and vector-insert junctions were subsequently sequenced. Procedures used were essentially as described in CITATION and CITATION. Upper internodes were harvested from developmentally matched WT Col-0 and mutant atcsld5-1 plants (mutant seeds were planted 4–5 days before WT and were of the same stem height). Material was finely chopped in microsomal extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.3, 400 μm sucrose, 4 mm dithiothreitol and the complete protease inhibitors cocktail with EDTA; Roche, http://www.roche.com). Polyvinyl polypyrrolidone was mixed into homogenates at a final concentration of 2% w/v. Homogenates were filtered and centrifuged at 3000 g for 15 min. Supernatants were further centrifuged at 50 000 g for 45 min. Pellets were then resuspended in microsomal extraction buffer and total protein was quantified using the Bradford reagent procedure. For quantification of β-(1-4)-xylan synthase activity, a microsomal volume equivalent to 10 μg of protein was used in the reaction mixture [50 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.2, 200 mm sucrose, 50 mm MgCl2 and 1 mm DTT, and 32 000 counts per minute (cpm) of UDP-[14C]-xylose]. The reactions were incubated for 10 min at 30°C and were stopped by boiling. The product was precipitated by the addition of ethanol at a final concentration of 70%, aided by the addition of wheat arabinoxylan. Unincorporated radioactivity was removed by washing once with 500 μl of methanol:chloroform (2:3), and then with 65% ethanol three times or until the radioactivity counts in the supernatant were at background level. The final pellet was resuspended in 200 μl of water, mixed with 2.5 ml of scintillation fluid (Ecoscint; National Diagnostics, http://nationaldiagnostics.com) and subjected to scintillation counting. To confirm that the radioactivity was incorporated into β-(1-4)-xylan, a digestion with endo-xylanase (CITATION) was performed using 0.002 U μl−1 of enzyme in 0.05 m sodium acetate buffer (pH 5.2) at 40°C for 18 h. The solubilized product was then subjected to scintillation counting. For quantification of homogalacturonan synthase activity, a microsomal volume equivalent to 100 μg of protein was used in the reaction mixture (2 mm MnCl2, 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.3 and 30 000 cpm of UDP-[14C]-d-GalA). The reactions were incubated for 30 min at 30°C and precipitated with ethanol at a final concentration of 70%, aided by the addition of oligogalacturonides. Pellets were washed and quantified as described for the xylan synthase assay. For quantification of glucan synthase activity, a microsomal volume equivalent to 10 μg of protein was used in a reaction buffer (50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.3, 5 mm MnCl2, 30 μm UDP-glucose, 100 000 cpm, UDP-[14C]-d-glucose). The reactions were incubated for 1 h at 30°C and were precipitated with ethanol at a final concentration of 70%, aided by the addition of 100 μg BSA. Pellets were washed and quantified as described for the xylan synthase assay. The 1263-bp fragment of the ATCSLD5 genomic sequence upstream from the putative start codon was cloned in front of the GUS gene, as described above. The resulting clone was transformed using standard procedures into Col-0 plants. Transformation of plants was confirmed using selection and PCR amplification. GUS activity assays were then performed essentially as described by CITATION, using vacuum infiltration of the substrate into the plant tissues tested. The vectors containing ATCSLD5-YFP, ATCSLD3-YFP and YFP-ATCSLD5 were transformed into A. tumefaciens C58C1 pGV3850 and the resulting strains were co-infiltrated with a strain harbouring the 35S:p19 construct for the suppression of gene silencing (CITATION), and in some cases with the Golgi marker, STtmd-GFP (CITATION), or the ER marker, GFP-HDEL (CITATION) into N. benthamiana leaves. Prior to infiltration the strains were grown overnight in LB media, harvested by centrifugation, and resuspended in a buffer containing 10 mm 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid (MES), 10 mm MgCl2 and 100 μm acetosyringone (OD600 = 0.05), and allowed to stand at room temperature (20°C) for 2–3 h. Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (from 2- to 4-week-old plants grown in a greenhouse at 28°C/day and 18°C/night with a 16-h photoperiod) were infiltrated with the bacterial cell suspensions using 1-ml syringes. Infiltrated tobacco leaf pieces (2–3-square-inch pieces) were glued with the upper side facing down on the microscope slide, deionized water was added and subsequently a coverslip was fitted. Infiltrated leaves were observed 24–48 h after infiltration by confocal laser scanning microscopy with eight scans per line (TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com). The GFP and YFP fluorescent signals from the expressed fusion constructs were monitored sequentially. The excitation and detection wavelengths for GFP and YFP were 488 and 514 nm for excitation, and 495–510 nm and 565–593 nm for detection, respectively.
