!~ABS~! Chromosome integrity is maintained via the actions of ribonucleoprotein complexes that can add telomeric repeats or can protect the chromosome end from being degraded. POT1 (protection of telomeres 1), a class of single-stranded-DNA-binding proteins, is a regulator of telomeric length. The Arabidopsis genome contains three POT1 homologues: POT1A, POT1B and POT1C. Using yeast two-hybrid assays to identify components of a potential POT1A complex, we retrieved three interactors: the N-terminus of the telomerase, a protein kinase and a plant-specific protein. Further analysis of the interaction of POT1 proteins with telomerase showed that this interaction is specific to POT1A, suggesting a specific role for this paralogue. The interaction is specific to the N-terminal region of the telomerase, which can be encoded by splicing variants. This interaction indicates possible mechanisms for telomerase regulation by alternative splicing and by POT1 proteins.
!~RES~! Using NimUPot1 (CITATION) as a query in a PSI-BLAST search, several POT1 genes could be identified in plants. Two POT1-like genes were annotated in the Arabidopsis genome: POT1A (At5g05210) and POT1B (At5g06310). During the course of our study, both POT1A and POT1B were shown to be involved in telomere regulation in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We found an additional locus in Arabidopsis encoding a potential POT1 protein (At2g04395) that appeared to have arisen as a partial duplication of the POT1A locus and was shown to be transcribed by 5′ and 3′ RACE (Accession number AY464640). We refer to this gene as POT1C (Accession number BN000975). Sequence alignments of POT1C with the two other POT1 genes showed that the protein is 60% identical to the N-terminus of POT1A. In rice, only a single sequence could be identified as a POT1 orthologue (locus OSJNBa0016O02.10). As a first step towards understanding the function of POT1, we searched for proteins interacting with POT1 proteins using a yeast two-hybrid screen. To facilitate cloning of Gateway-ready open reading frames (ORFs), compatible two-hybrid vectors were generated by converting the existing Matchmaker III vectors (Clontech) pGADT7 and pGBKT7 to the Gateway system (Fig. 1) and used to clone AtPOT1 genes in translational fusion with either the activation domain (pAD-) or to the binding domain (pBD-) of GAL4. Because POT1 proteins have been reported to bind DNA (CITATION), we first checked whether POT1A could self-activate the yeast two-hybrid system. Diploids containing either pGADT7/pBD-POT1A or pGBKT7/pAD-POT1A were unable to grow on SD-LWH and SD-LWHA, indicating that POT1A alone cannot activate gene expression in this system (data not shown). Similar results were obtained for POT1B. The ciliate TEBP proteins heterodimerise in vivo and chicken POT1 protein has been reported to dimerise in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). However, growth tests using suitable diploids expressing these fusion proteins indicated that POT1 proteins are unable to homo-dimerise or heterodimerise in yeast (data not shown). To identify interacting proteins, we screened an expression library by mating the AH109 strain containing the library with Y187 transformed with pBD-POT1A. Positive clones were selected on SD-LWHA plates and the library plasmids rescued into Escherichia coli for further analysis. From a total of 1.4×107 clones screened, we isolated five putative interacting clones (Table 1). Of these, only three were confirmed to be able to interact with POT1A as fusions with both the DNA-binding and the activation domain of GAL4 (Fig. 2). These three positives include an N-terminal region of the telomerase, a CBL-interacting protein kinase (CIPK21) and a plant-specific protein of unknown function. Furthermore, these interactions were specific to POT1A, because no growth occurred when tested with POT1B or the telomeric protein KU80 (Fig. 2).   [[TABLE]] Telomerase and POT1-related proteins both bind to telomeres, where they interact functionally and genetically (CITATION; CITATION). The yeast two-hybrid results indicate that they also interact physically. To define the interaction domain, we tested different parts of the TERT protein for their ability to interact with POT1.   [[FIGURE]] The sequence of the TERT clone isolated from the library mapped to the 5′ part of the TERT (At5g16850) gene model. The inferred intron-exon structure of the library clone differs from that of the gene model, retaining the sixth and the eighth intron and terminating with a polyA tail part way through intron 8. We refer to this N-terminal variant as TERT-V(I8) (TERT variant in intron 8, accession number AM384991, supplementary material Fig. S1). Retention of intron 6 is predicted to introduce a stop codon 18 bp after the end of exon 6 (amino acid RILQWF-stop), resulting in a shorter version of TERT protein (supplementary material Fig. S1; from amino acids 1 to 323 plus six novel amino acids; 38.3 kDa, pI 9.69). This N-terminal peptide includes several conserved motifs (CITATION), including the GQ motif (amino acids 115 and 233) and part of the linker (supplementary material Fig. S1). To verify the yeast two-hybrid results, we investigated whether the two proteins could interact in vitro. For this we made use of the yeast two hybrid vectors that allow the in vitro expression of proteins fused to myc or HA tag using the T7 promoter (Fig. 1). The in-vitro-expressed proteins, therefore, do not contain the activation or binding domains of the GAL4 transcription system and allow the interaction to be assessed in the absence of possible interference by the GAL4 domains. HA-TERT-V(I8) and myc-POT1A were expressed separately in a coupled transcription/translation system based on the rabbit reticulocyte lysate system. We also used an `empty' vector, pGBKT7, containing the myc tag as a control. The HA-TERT-V(I8) protein was radio-labelled with [35S-methionine] (Fig. 3, lane 1), and the myc tag and myc-POT1A proteins (Fig. 3, lanes 2, 3) were detected using antibodies against the myc epitope. The proteins were mixed before immunoprecipitation with anti-myc bound to protein A-sepharose beads (Fig. 3, lanes 3, 4). Immunoprecipitation of TERT-V(I8) was found to be POT1A-dependent (Fig. 3, lane 6) because no TERT-V(I8) was detected in absence of myc-POT1A protein (Fig 3, lane 5). These results demonstrate the ability of the POT1A and TERT proteins to interact in vitro. Because POT1A interacts with a variant of TERT, we checked whether POT1A could also interact with other parts of the protein. Selected deletion derivatives (Fig. 4A) were tested for interaction with POT1A using the yeast two-hybrid assay. TERT1-323 (first six exons of the gene; amino acids 1-323) differs from TERT-V(I8) only in that it lacks the six amino acids encoded by the retained intron 6. TERT1-413 is encoded by exon 1 to exon 8 (amino acids 1-413), and the C-terminal part of TERT, TERT414-1123, is encoded by exon 9 to exon 12 (amino acids 414-1123). Only those cells containing POT1A in combination with both TERT-V(I8) or TERT1-323 were able to grow on media depleted of histidine and adenine (Fig. 4B), indicating that the interaction was specific to the N-terminal domain. The level of activation of the lacZ reporter gene, as judged by a β-galactosidase assay, was on average 2.38-fold higher for TERT-V(I8) and 1.60-fold for TERT1-323 than in the control. This suggests that the interaction with TERT1-323 is 30% reduced compared with the TERT-V(I8) variant. A longer N-terminal derivative of TERT (Fig. 4B) was unable to interact with POT1, as judged both by growth characteristics and by lacZ activation. One reason for the apparent lack of interaction – failure to express the fusion protein – was eliminated for most of the deletion derivatives by western blotting (Fig. 4C). However, we failed to detect the C-terminal domain or the full-length TERT, so we cannot exclude the possibility that these proteins are not expressed in yeast.   [[FIGURE]] The truncation study above suggests that the N-terminal domain of TERT has higher binding affinity for POT1 than longer versions, and that this domain might be expressed as a result of alternative splice-site selection. Alternative splicing of TERT genes is a widespread phenomenon in animals (reviewed in CITATION) and has also been reported in rice (CITATION; CITATION). To establish whether alternative splicing also occurs in the Arabidopsis TERT gene, we performed reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR on mRNA extracted from rapidly dividing tissue (inflorescences) and slowly dividing tissue (rosette leaves) using primers specific for the beginning of the ORF and at different downstream locations (Fig. 5A). Consistent with multiple mRNA species in dividing tissues, RT-PCR with several different primer combinations produced amplification products of variable molecular weight in addition to the expected product (Fig. 5B). To determine the precise sites of alternative splicing, we cloned and sequenced RT-PCR products from each primer set (Fig. 5C). This indicated that alternative splicing sites are located in or after exon 5, generating stop codons close after the alternative splicing site (annotated as * in Fig. 5). Using primer sets 1 and 6, we found that two out of the three clones sequenced were identical to TERT-V(I8), whereas the third one corresponded to unspliced mRNA. Consensus intron donor and acceptor sites are conserved for both splicing variants at introns 5 and 7 (Table 2). Taken together with the yeast two-hybrid results, this suggests that TERT could be regulated by alternative splicing to produce a variant protein comprising an N-terminal domain with increased POT1-binding capabilities.   [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]] If TERT and POT1 interact in vivo, then one prediction is that they should both be present in the same cellular compartment. In humans and in yeast, POT1 and telomerase are both located in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It has recently been shown that human POT1 is also localised in the cytoplasm and that its localisation in the nucleus is controlled by the interacting protein TPP1 (CITATION). Using the PSORT server, no particular motifs could be detected in the Arabidopsis POT1 proteins, but nuclear localisation signals were present in telomerase (certainty of 0.980) (see also CITATION). This prediction would agree with the nuclear localisation observed for the human and yeast proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Localisation of GFP fusion proteins was assessed by transient expression in Arabidopsis Col-0 cells and by BY-2 stable transformation (CITATION). GFP alone, histone H3-like (At4g40030, H3-like) – a centromeric histone CENH3 [whose localisation was shown to correspond to centromeric DNA by immunofluorescence (CITATION)] – and KU80 [involved both at telomere regulation and DNA recombination (CITATION)] were used as controls.   [[FIGURE]] GFP alone localised both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus (CITATION). H3-like::GFP localised to the nucleus and uniformly stained euchromatin during both interphase and mitosis (supplementary material Fig. S2). The heterochromatin marker CENH3::GFP specifically marked heterochromatin knobs and centromeric regions, as shown by counterstaining with DAPI (supplementary material Fig. S2). The putative telomeric protein, KU80, was observed both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus, as reported previously (CITATION) (Fig. 6A), and was very similar to both POT1A and POT1B (Fig. 6A). To assess whether the POT1 proteins were tightly bound to any particular structure, cells were treated with detergent and the DNA was stained with DAPI (Fig. 6B). The GFP-tagged POT1 fusion proteins in the nucleus were resistant to detergent extraction, whereas the cytoplasmic-located GFP-POT1 proteins were not. GFP fusions with both TERT-V(I8) or TERT1-413 were observed in the nucleoli and sometimes also in the nucleoplasm (Fig. 6C). These results, therefore, indicate that the two proteins locate in the same sub-cellular compartment and therefore have the potential to interact in vivo.
!~MM~! PolyA RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana flower buds or rosette leaves using the Dynabeads mRNA kit (Dynal, Bromborough, UK). Typically, one inflorescence bud or one rosette leaf was ground in 100 μl of lysis buffer (Dynal), centrifuged for 1 minute at 16,000 g and 80 μl was used to bind to 20 μl of Dynabeads. The beads were then used to perform the reverse transcription (Omniscript Quiagen, Valencia, C.A.). 4 μl of the RT-mix was used as template for a PCR reaction (KOD Hot Start DNA polymerase, Novagen) in a volume of 50 μl and 10 pmole of specific primers. For gene amplification, PCR primers were designed based on the predicted gene models available at TAIR (POT1A, At2g05210; POT1B, At5g06310). A list of primers and of their sequences is given in Table 3. Gateway Technology (Invitrogen) was used to generate entry clones using a two-step PCR procedure. The first set of primers, corresponding to half of the recombination site attB1 or attB2 and to the gene, are Pot1A-forward and Pot1A-reverse (amplifying a fragment of 1404 bp); a second PCR reaction added the full-length recombination sites, following Invitrogen's instructions. The PCR products were cleaned through PCR column purification (QIAQuick, PCR purification, Quiagen) and recombined into pDON207 by BP reaction. Plasmids were analysed by sequencing (Chromas, version 1.45, http://www.mb.mahidol.ac.th/pub/chromas/chromas.htm). Subsequent LR reactions were generated as recommended by Invitrogen.   [[TABLE]] The telomerase cDNA was amplified from the clone AF135454, a gift of Katsunori Tamura and Hideo Takahashi from the University of Tokyo (CITATION) using the Gateway-compatible primers TERT-forward and TERT-reverse (Table 3). TERT-V(I8) was sub-cloned from pGADT7-rec using TERT-forward and TERT-V(I8)-reverse. Primers were designed to generate combinations of different truncations using two-step PCR and subsequent cloning was performed as described above using the Gateway Technology. For the N-terminal region, TERT1-323 was generated using the primers TERT-forward and TERT1-323-reverse; TERT1-413 using primers TERT-forward and TERT1-413-reverse; and the C-terminal part of the gene, TERT414-1123, using primers TERT414-1123-forward and TERT-reverse (Table 3). For RT-PCR experiments to detect alternative splicing at the 5′ of the telomerase gene, reverse transcription was performed as above and 35 cycles of PCR amplification were performed using the primers shown in Fig. 5: Primer 1: TERT-forward; 2: TERT-intron5-reverse; 3: TERT-intron6-reverse; 4: TERT-exon7-reverse; 5: TERT1-413-reverse; and 6: TERT-V(I8)-reverse. PCR products obtained from inflorescence tissue were cloned in pGEMT-easy and the corresponding sequence obtained after sequencing using universal M13F/R primers. The two-hybrid vectors pGADT7 and pGBKT7, based on the GAL 4 system (Matchmaker III, Clontech Laboratories), were converted to the Gateway Technology by inserting the Gateway frame B cassette at the SmaI site of both vectors. The orientation and reading frame of the insert were confirmed by sequencing. The converted plasmids were called pDEST-GADT7 and pDEST-GBKT7 and are available from the ABRC DNA stock centre. Entry clones (containing full length or truncations) were used in recombination reactions to transfer genes to the pDEST-GADT7 and pDEST-GBKT7 vectors. The products, referred to as pBD-X or pAD-X, were transformed into S. cerevisiae AH109 or Y187 strains (Matchmaker III, Clontech Laboratories). Expression of fusion proteins in yeast were confirmed by western blotting of whole-cell extracts using antibodies against the haemagglutinin antigen HA (HA.11 antibody CRPinc, Berkerley, CA) and c-myc (Clontech) epitope tags according to the manufacturer's instructions. A gene library in pGADT7-rec vector, made using mRNA isolated from inflorescence tissues of A. thaliana, was a gift of Hans Sommers' laboratory (Max Plank Institute for Plant Breeding Research, Köln, Germany). Screening and interaction studies were carried out by mating compatible strains of yeast, following Clontech's instructions. Selection on media depleted of leucine, tryptophan, histidine and adenine, and liquid were performed following the manufacturer's recommendations. POTA and TERT-V(I8) were expressed in the in vitro TNT T7-coupled transcription/translation Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega) following the manufacturer's recommendation. TERT-V(I8) in pDEST-GADT7 was used as a template for the in vitro transcription/translation reaction and was radio-labelled using [35S]-methionine. POT1A fused to a myc tag in pDEST-GBKT7 was expressed using non-radioactive methionine and, as a control, we used an `empty' vector, pGBKT7, that should produce a short polypeptide containing the myc tag. Half of the total reaction of [35S met]-TERT-V(I8) (50 μl) was mixed with either the myc tag alone or POT1A-myc, 50 μl of protein A sepharose and 10 μl of anti-myc monoclonal antibody (clone 9E10, AbCam) in 500 μl of binding buffer [100 mM HEPES pH7.5, 50 mM KCl, 5% (v/v) glycerol, 15 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton-X100, 1 tablet mini complete EDTA free protease inhibitor (Roche)] and incubated overnight at 4°C. After four washes of 5 minutes each in binding buffer, the sepharose resin was re-suspended in 15 μl of 1× loading buffer and proteins denatured for 3 minutes at 80°C. The resin was spun for 30 seconds and the supernatant separated on a 10% polyacrylamide SDS gel. After transfer, the membrane was exposed to storage phosphor-screen imager (Molecular Dynamics) and the radio-labelled TERT-V(I8) detected using a Typhoon 9200 scanner (Amersham Biosciences). Western blots to detect proteins were performed using antibody against the epitope monoclonal anti-myc 9E10. The secondary antibody was against IgG of mouse and coupled to horseradish peroxidase (DAKO). Entry clones were used as templates for LR reactions to sub-clone the corresponding genes in fusion with the GFP (pBin-GFP N or C, a gift from Ben Trevaskis, MPI, Germany). Agrobacterium cells and Arabidopsis cell suspension cells were transformed as described previously (CITATION). Tobacco BY-2 cells stably expressing the GFP fusion were generated as previously described (CITATION). Cells were permeabilised with detergent (Triton X-100 0.01%) and DNA stained with 1 μg/ml DAPI (4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, Sigma). Analysis of the transformants was carried out with a 63× oil immersion objective on a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Leica SP and SP2; Leica microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany). GFP was excited at 488 nm from an Argon Ion laser and the emitted light was detected between 500 and 550 nm. To image DAPI images, sequential scans were taken between GFP and DAPI, with DAPI excited by 351-363 nm light from an Argon Ion (UV) laser and the emitted light detected between 420 and 470 nm. All images acquired were processed with Adobe Photoshop (7.0) and ImageJ programmes. ImageJ is a public-domain image-processing programme written by Wayne Rasband and is available at http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/. Overlay images of GFP and DAPI were created using Adobe Photoshop.
