!~ABS~! Finding gene-specific peptides by mass spectrometry analysis to pinpoint gene loci responsible for particular protein products is a major challenge in proteomics especially in highly conserved gene families in higher eukaryotes. We used a combination of in silico approaches coupled to mass spectrometry analysis to advance the proteomics insight into Arabidopsis cytosolic ribosomal composition and its post-translational modifications. In silico digestion of all 409 ribosomal protein sequences in Arabidopsis defined the proportion of theoretical gene-specific peptides for each gene family and highlighted the need for low m/z cutoffs of MS ion selection for MS/MS to characterize low molecular weight, highly basic ribosomal proteins. We undertook an extensive MS/MS survey of the cytosolic ribosome using trypsin and, when required, chymotrypsin and pepsin. We then used custom software to extract and filter peptide match information from Mascot result files and implement high confidence criteria for calling gene-specific identifications based on the highest quality unambiguous spectra matching exclusively to certain in silico predicted gene- or gene family-specific peptides. This provided an in-depth analysis of the protein composition based on 1446 high quality MS/MS spectra matching to 795 peptide sequences from ribosomal proteins. These identified peptides from five gene families of ribosomal proteins not identified previously, providing experimental data on 79 of the 80 different types of ribosomal subunits. We provide strong evidence for gene-specific identification of 87 different ribosomal proteins from these 79 families. We also provide new information on 30 specific sites of co- and post-translational modification of ribosomal proteins in Arabidopsis by initiator methionine removal, N-terminal acetylation, N-terminal methylation, lysine N-methylation, and phosphorylation. These site-specific modification data provide a wealth of resources for further assessment of the role of ribosome modification in influencing translation in Arabidopsis. 
!~RES~! To develop strategies to identify ribosomal proteins from the cytosolic ribosome with confidence based on peptide MS/MS, we undertook a wide survey of the predicted ribosomal protein sequences from Arabidopsis. The latest release of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome (TAIR6) contains 409 genes (excluding pseudogenes) annotated as encoding cytosolic, mitochondrial, or chloroplastic ribosomal proteins or ribosomal protein-like proteins. These include the protein sequences of nine genes that were not annotated at the time of the Barakat et al. (CITATION) analysis of Arabidopsis ribosomal sequences that are new isoforms of S15, S25, P0, P1, L10a, L19, L24, and L41. The corresponding set of 409 predicted protein sequences were subjected to batch in silico digestion with either “trypsin,” “chymotrypsin,” or “pepsin” using an in-house modified version of the published script Proteogest (CITATION). Processing of Proteogest output using custom PHP scripts produced a table for each enzyme containing the entire list of peptide sequences theoretically produced and for each peptide the gene(s) and gene family(s) from which it could be derived and a list of those peptides that were predicted to come from only one of the 409 protein sequences (see supplemental Data 1 for lists of total and gene-specific peptide sequences and m/z values for [M + 2H+]2+ ions). For example, in silico digestion using trypsin allowing one missed cleavage produced ∼13,000 unique peptide sequences (Fig. 1). Approximately 9400 (72%) of these peptide sequences were predicted to come from only one of the 409 protein sequences (gene-specific peptides), whereas others could be derived from a number of different genes. Analysis of all these data showed that many low molecular mass peptides are produced by trypsinization of ribosomal proteins due to the high arginine and lysine content of these relatively basic protein sequences.  [[FIGURE]] Comparison with the data published by Chang et al. (CITATION) and Giavalisco et al. (CITATION) on the experimental identification of ribosomal proteins showed that six protein families were not represented in either of these earlier reports: the 40 S families S29 and S30 and the 60 S subunits L36a, L39, L29, and L41. These proteins are all small in size (<12 kDa), highly basic in nature (pI 10.5–13.4; average, 11.7), and, from our in silico digestions, lead to especially small peptides for analysis when trypsinized.  From this analysis of both theoretical digestion and published data on the ribosome, a strategy was developed to maximize coverage of the ribosomal analysis. First, it would be necessary to obtain a large number of unique MS/MS spectra to provide coverage of the likely 80–249 ribosomal proteins expected in the cytosolic proteome. Given that 72% of tryptic peptides were likely to be gene-specific (Fig. 1), ∼500–1500 peptide identifications would be required to provide, on average, three to four specific peptides for each protein match depending on the number of specific proteins in the ribosome. Second, it would be important to use a low m/z cutoff for the selection of MS ions for MS/MS analysis; 200–900 was chosen on the basis of the abundance of peptides below 800 amu (which would be doubly charged MS ions below 400 m/z from electrospray ionization) especially in the families of proteins so far not identified in Arabidopsis samples. Third, it would be valuable to use a simple protein display technology such as 1D SDS-PAGE to ensure that proteins were not lost for analysis due to being too basic or not dissolving in IEF buffers for 2D gel analysis or being lightly stained and not analyzed due to lack of visible spots in 2D gel analysis of ribosomes. This was especially important because these technical reasons had been used to explain the lack of coverage of certain families in previous reports on the ribosome composition (CITATION, CITATION). Fourth, given the similarity of peptide sequences within and between ribosomal protein families it would be necessary to undertake an extensive analysis of the gene specificity of any given peptide sequence to ensure that only real gene-specific matches were used as evidence of specific proteins.  The protein complement of ribosomes isolated from Arabidopsis cell culture was displayed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The gel separation of the successive steps in the purification of ribosomal proteins provides a view of the decreasing complexity of the protein sample and the refinement of the major bands of r-proteins. In Fig. 2, far right lane, the discrete banding pattern of the ribosomal samples is evident.  [[FIGURE]] To assess whether our ribosomal preparation method produced intact 80 S ribosomes that could be dissociated into two distinct subunits by a buffer of high ionic strength, we compared the sucrose density gradient sedimentation profiles of ribosome samples suspended in 5 mm MgCl2 ribosome buffer of either moderate (0.1 m KCl) or high ionic strength (0.5 m KCl). The sedimentation banding patterns of 80 S ribosomes and 60 and 40 S subunits was followed by UV absorbance at 260 and 280 nm. This analysis revealed that at 0.1 m KCl, ribosomal subunits remained essentially completely associated into 80 S ribosomes, whereas at 0.5 m KCl, subunits were completely dissociated into 40 and 60 S subunits with virtually no 80 S band detected (Fig. 3). No other obvious UV-absorbing bands were detected.  [[FIGURE]] For analysis of the proteins in the purified ribosomal samples, three lanes each containing 100 μg of ribosomal proteins were run in parallel, and the Coomassie-staining bands of the entire three-lane width were excised and digested in small pieces with trypsin in 12 separate wells of a 96-well plate. In total a set of 21 band regions were handled separately to provide 21 sets of peptides from 300 μg of ribosomal r-proteins (Fig. 4A). A further nine sets of bands for low molecular mass gel regions were cut from replicate gels and digested with either chymotrypsin or pepsin to increase the coverage of low molecular weight ribosomal proteins (Fig. 4A). Each of the 48 (21 + 9 + 9 + 9) samples were separately analyzed by gradient elutions of peptides from a C18 column into an Applied Biosystems QStar Pulsar Q-TOF mass spectrometer at 8 μl/min under the parameters outlined under “Experimental Procedures.”  [[FIGURE]] The 48 raw data files generated by LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of the in-gel digested 1D SDS-PAGE protein bands were divided into three groups based on the protease used, and each group of data files was used to generate a .MGF peak list file for analysis by Mascot as outlined under “Experimental Procedures” (supplemental Data 2). Peptide hits reported by Mascot were filtered to remove low confidence matches (expect value >0.05) and mapped, on the basis of peptide sequence, onto their associated r-protein genes, r-protein families, and gene specificity information using custom PHP scripts built around database tables of in silico predicted tryptic, chymotryptic, or peptic peptide sequences. These in silico digestion tables were built by using the data from Proteogest (that were analyzed in Fig. 1). These data were automatically processed using the PHP script to generate peptide mapping report tables containing columns for peptide sequence, AGI, ribosomal protein family, and peptide MS/MS match data and a column indicating whether or not the peptide sequence was gene-specific (supplemental Data 3). In this way, each mapping between a peptide match and an r-protein gene was represented by a separate row. Hence gene-specific peptide matches only occurred in one row of the script-generated table, and nonspecific peptide matches occurred in multiple rows (one for each gene from which they could be derived).  Peptide hit information mapped onto genetic loci was then processed by the PHP script to automatically count the number of unique peptide sequences detected per gene in the ribosomal gene set, select the highest scoring MS/MS spectrum for each unique detected peptide sequence, and add together the peptide scores for all the best unique peptide hits for each r-protein family (compiled in Table I). The same approach was used to calculate the number of gene-specific peptides found and the sums of the peptide scores for non-redundant gene-specific peptides found for each gene (see supplemental Data 4). Systematic analysis of the sequences of in silico predicted gene-specific peptides revealed that some of these peptides differed from each other only through isobaric Leu/Ile or Gln/Lys substitutions that would not be resolvable in our MS/MS analysis and would result in these spectra giving rise to search engine matches against more than one gene-specific peptide sequence. This finding highlighted the importance of using only unambiguously matched MS/MS spectra to support gene-specific protein identification. Hence spectra that matched significantly to more than one peptide sequence were not allowed to contribute gene-specific peptide identification counts or scores. Fig. 5 provides a flow diagram overview of the whole data analysis procedure.  [[FIGURE]] Our analysis mapped 1446 MS/MS spectra (1413 tryptic, 26 chymotryptic, and seven peptic) as positive matches to 795 (776 tryptic, 13 chymotryptic, and six peptic) non-redundant peptides from ribosomal proteins. We also detected a high scoring match (Mascot Ions Score = 61) to a tryptic peptide derived from the r-protein family L29 in a separate analysis of r-proteins enriched for phosphopeptides. Together these data confirmed the presence of peptides from 79 of the 80 protein families believed to make up the ribosome (Table I). In comparison, Chang et al. (CITATION) and Giavaliso et al. (CITATION) claimed data for 75 and 61 protein families, respectively. Only one protein family thus remains undetected in experimental ribosome preparations in Arabidopsis, L41. The four L41 proteins are extremely small (3–4 kDa) and extremely basic (pI 13.5).  The newly identified proteins from our analysis were from the 40 S S29 and S30 families and the 60 S L29, L36a, and L39 families. These small proteins were identified through a combination of spectral matches from trypsin, chymotrypsin, and pepsin digestions of low molecular mass protein bands (Table II). Inspection of the matched peptides showed that 64% of the matches were to MS ions smaller than 400 m/z, justifying our strategy to include low m/z MS2+ and MS3+ ions in our analysis. All the presented spectra for these newly identified proteins were family-specific, but none were gene-specific. In the cases of the three members of S29, two members from L36a, and three members from S30, there are no specific peptides derived from theoretical digests. Among the three members of L39, a very small number of gene-specific peptides can theoretically be produced, but none were found in this analysis.  [[TABLE]] One of the most taxing issues in analysis of the ribosomal dataset, but of high interest to researchers, is the question of heterogeneity in the proteins that make up the ribosome derived from the families of genes encoding proteins for each specific subunit. Table I shows that in every case in Arabidopsis ribosomal subunits are encoded by at least two and in some cases up to seven different genes with an average of three genes per subunit across the whole protein complex. Importantly our data for peptide identification are based on a large MS/MS dataset of over 1400 matching spectra, and they contain 267 unambiguous gene-specific peptide identifications (see supplemental Data 3). The claims of earlier studies of the ribosome were made on the basis of much smaller datasets, and although many specific member proteins were claimed in these publications, the strength of the evidence in any particular case was substantially weaker than that obtained in this study. Chang et al. (CITATION) based their claims on ∼850 peptide identifications mainly from MS ions in MALDI-TOF with only 172 claims based on MS/MS spectra of which only 66 were gene-specific MS/MS matches. The Giavalisco et al. (CITATION) study was entirely based on an unknown number of MS ions derived by MALDI-TOF. Claiming gene-specific identifications within conserved protein families relies on the high confidence matching of data derived from often only a small number of individual peptides. In this context, MS/MS spectra are much more powerful discrimination tools than the matching of MS ion masses from MALDI-TOF spectra. We used a high confidence cutoff for claiming gene-specific identification. For genes with only a single detected gene-specific peptide, the peptide had to have a peptide score equal to or greater than 40 and an expect value below 0.05, and the MS/MS spectrum had to be manually verified. The annotated MS/MS spectra for these cases are supplied in supplemental Data 4. For genes with more than one detected gene-specific peptide, all peptides were required to have an expect value below 0.05 and an average peptide score of at least 30.  Our analysis of gene-specific peptides in silico revealed that within 10 gene families no theoretical gene-specific peptides exist: S18, S29, S30, L11, L21, L23, L36a, L38, L40, and L41. So for these proteins, no amount of spectral data will allow verification of heterogeneity of the protein population. For a further eight families the level of sequence identity is so high that few sequence-specific peptides exist, and hence it is rather unlikely they could be found (S4, S13, S17, S26, S27, L15, L35a, L37, and L29). But for the remaining 63 families enough theoretical gene-specific peptides exist to suggest that a high coverage MS/MS dataset could be able to define with clarity whether gene-specific data exist to justify the specific presence of gene products from different chromosomal loci.  Several errors in the assignments made by Chang et al. (CITATION) were apparent from our further analysis. In the family P3, Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed specific identification of At4g25890, but the peptides they claimed as matches were actually not from this gene product but from the other member of the family, At5g57290. For this protein we also made the specific identification of a locus-specific peptide. Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed a specific gene match to two L19 proteins from a family of four members, At1g02780 and At4g02230. However, on closer inspection the peptide claimed for At1g02780 (GPGGDVAPVAAPAPAATPAATPAPTAAVPK) is not present in the sequence of this protein. Our data strongly point to gene-specific data only for At4g02230. In the two-member L15 family, Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed gene-specific identification of At4g16720 based on a single peptide, but on closer inspection this peptide is indistinguishable from the peptide from the other member of this family as it is a Leu/Ile difference that cannot be determined by MS. The two members of L15 are indistinguishable in our analysis; there is only one theoretical peptide that could distinguish this pair, but it remained undetected by MS even though we had MS/MS data on 12 peptides to this family. A similar story is evident in the S5 family of two members. Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed a specific peptide to At2g37270, but it is again a Leu/Ile difference to At3g11940 and therefore indistinguishable by MS. We had six MS/MS spectra to this family but were unable to provide a gene-specific peptide; only three exist based on theoretical digests. In S25, Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed specific peptides for At2g21580, but these peptides are no longer gene-specific because of the discovery of a new member of S25, At4g34555. S25 proteins are only ∼12 kDa (encoded in a single exon), and this gene was not annotated in the earlier versions of the Arabidopsis genome. The claims of Giavalisco et al. (CITATION) on gene specificity were not based on gene-specific peptides per se but on selecting the top match based on the Molecular Weight Search score from a search of peptide mass fingerprinting data; thus we could not with confidence compare our data with the claims made in this study.  We found good gene-specific matches for all three S3 members and also for both members in the two-member families S3a, S6, and S24 (supplemental Data 4). In each of these cases substantial EST evidence suggests that all members of these families are expressed and hence that there is a heterogeneous population of these isoforms in ribosomes. However, there are also families in the 40 S subunit where the evidence is much more in favor of single gene products or two gene products (from large families) dominating the expressed protein profile, for example in Sa, S28, S9, and S8 where the member-specific data match closely to the EST evidence for gene expression. There are still families where we are unable to provide substantial evidence for which specific protein products are found in the ribosome (e.g. S5, S15, S20, and S25).  We found good gene-specific matches for three of four members for the four-member families L7, L13a, and L35 and for both members in the two-member families L4, L5, L7a, L14, L17, L23a, L26, L28, and L32 (supplemental Data 4). In all of these cases substantial EST evidence suggests that all members of these families are expressed, suggesting a heterogeneous population of these isoforms from the 60 S ribosome subunit. However, there are also families in the 60 S subunit where the evidence is much more in favor of single gene products or two gene products (from large families) dominating the expressed protein profile, for example in L3, L10a, L13, L24, and L37a where the member-specific data match closely to the EST evidence for gene expression. There are still families where we are unable to provide substantial evidence for which of the protein products are found in the ribosome (e.g. L12, L15, L19, L27a, L29, and L30).  In the four P r-protein families of acidic stalk proteins specific peptides were found for two of the four P0 and three of the five P2 protein isoforms (supplemental Data 4). A series of P1 family peptides were found, one each specific for the first three members of this family, but only one of these met our tight specifications of gene specificity. Only one gene-specific peptide was found for P3, and this had a high Mascot Ions Score and was specific for At5g57290, which is consistent with much higher EST contribution from this gene family member.  The S15a family was highlighted in a high profile analysis of ribosomal protein evolution as an example of a cytosolic gene family that evolved to direct specific members to be part of the mitochondrial ribosome and retain others in the cytosolic ribosome (CITATION). Sequence comparisons showed two types of S15a sequences, type I (At1g07770, At2g35590, At3g46040, and At5g59850) and type II (At2g19720 and At4g29430). The type II proteins were shown to be translocated to the mitochondria, whereas the type I proteins remained in the cytosol (CITATION). Chang et al. (CITATION) claimed peptide-specific evidence for both type I and type II proteins in the cytosolic ribosome. In our analysis we were unable to find any evidence for peptides even redundantly matching the type II proteins (At2g19720 and At4g29430) in our cytosolic ribosome samples; all 11 peptides found were specific for type I protein members (Tables I and III). In parallel, we partially enriched ribosomes from mitochondrial samples and analyzed the analogous band on 1D gels that matched band 21 where S15a peptides were found. Here we found strong evidence of type II sequences, one peptide that redundantly matched to At2g19720 and At4g29430 and two peptides specific for At4g29430 (Table III), and no significant evidence of cytosolic type I sequences. Thus we propose that the presence of type II peptides in the study of Chang et al. (CITATION) is likely due to mitochondrial ribosome contamination of their samples rather than the real presence of type II proteins in the cytosolic ribosome.  [[TABLE]] A set of five proteins that do not represent members of the 80 established families of ribosomal proteins were identified in this study (supplemental Data 5). These were two guanine nucleotide-binding family proteins (At1g18080 and At1g48630), several of which have been reported previously in ribosomal extracts (CITATION, CITATION); a eukaryotic translation initiation factor (At3g55620) that is likely bound to active ribosomes; and a ferritin-like protein (At3g56090).  Covalent protein modifications such as acetylation, methylation, and phosphorylation have emerged as potentially being important factors contributing to ribosomal heterogeneity in both eukaryotes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) and prokaryotes (CITATION, CITATION). In the ribosomes of higher plants, studying the role of covalent r-protein modification in ribosomal heterogeneity is complicated by the frequent expression of relatively high (compared with other classes of organism) numbers of different, yet often highly conserved isoforms of each ribosomal subunit. This situation adds another layer of complexity to the MS-based analysis of covalent r-protein modification in higher plants because very often the mass difference between two closely related peptides from two closely related r-protein isoforms is exactly or almost equal to the mass difference expected from a covalent modification. Hence in many cases, parent ion mass, as obtained by simple MS, cannot distinguish the modified peptide of one family member from a closely related, unmodified peptide derived from another family member. As we demonstrate here, this problem can be largely overcome through the use of LC-ESI-Q-TOF-MS/MS, which allows isobaric peptides of very similar structure to be distinguished on the basis of their MS/MS fragmentation patterns.  To identify sites of covalent modification on ribosomal proteins, candidate MS/MS spectra potentially corresponding to covalently modified peptides were identified in the complete MS/MS dataset through a series of Mascot searches considering various combinations of acetylation; formylation; mono-, di-, and trimethylation; and phosphorylation as variable modifications. MS/MS spectra for which the top Mascot match (across all the Mascot searches) was a covalently modified peptide with a peptide score greater than 30 were manually inspected to verify the identity of the peptide and determine the exact position(s) of the modified residue(s). This manual inspection process allowed near isobaric modifications such as trimethylation/acetylation and dimethylation/formylation (which each differ by 0.0364 amu) to be distinguished on the basis that for low m/z fragment ions carrying the modification the mass accuracy of the TOF analyzer was sufficient to resolve the two near isobaric modifications. This approach revealed strong MS/MS evidence for 30 unique covalently modified peptides corresponding to a total of 41 covalent modification events. Detected modification types included removal of N-terminal methionine (15 cases), N-terminal acetylation (12 cases), N-terminal dimethylation (one case), N-methylation of lysine side chains (three cases), and phosphorylation (nine cases). Of the 30 covalently modified peptides detected, 13 (43%) could be assigned to a specific genetic locus, whereas the remaining 57% could only be redundantly assigned to two to four members of a particular r-protein family due to sequence conservation between family members. Overall the results of this analysis (Table IV and supplemental Data 6) suggest extensive covalent modification of the ribosome with at least 23 (29%) of the 80 ribosomal protein families exhibiting at least one covalent modification.  [[TABLE]] Under the stringent MS/MS matching criteria, a total of 23 unique N-terminal peptides representing 18 r-protein families were detected (Table IV). Of these 23 N-terminal peptides, 20 (87%) were modified by either initiator methionine removal, N-terminal acetylation, or both. The remaining three (13%) peptides, specific to the r-proteins S10C (At5g52650), P2A (At2g27710), and P2B (At2g27720), retained an unmodified N-terminal methionine residue. Five (22%) of the N-terminal peptides detected, representing r-protein families L18, L21, L32, L36, and S27, had parent ion masses and CID fragmentation patterns consistent with initiator methionine removal without further modification. In these peptides, the N-terminal residue was either glycine, proline, alanine, or valine, consistent with previous observations that initiator methionine removal occurs preferentially when the residue immediately adjacent to the initiator methionine has a relatively small radius of gyration (CITATION). Ten (43%) of the detected N-terminal peptides, representing r-protein families L10a, L28, S15, S18, S20, S3, S5, and Sa, were detected as ions with parent masses and CID fragmentation patterns consistent with initiator methionine removal and acetylation on or near the N-terminal residue. In these peptides the N-terminal residue was invariably alanine (80% of cases) or serine (20% of cases). Two peptides, which were specific to the r-proteins S21B (At3g53890) and S7A (At1g48830), were detected with MS/MS support for N-terminal acetylation on the initiator methionine (see example spectrum in Fig. 6A). In the raw spectra of all but three of the putatively acetylated peptides, an MS/MS signal peak within 5–53 ppm of the expected singly charged b1 ion of acetyl alanine (m/z = 114.0550), acetyl serine (m/z = 130.0499), or acetyl methionine sulfoxide (m/z = 190.0453) was observed providing strong support for acetylation at the N terminus, although O-acetylation of the serine side chain cannot be ruled out for peptides containing an N-terminal serine. For the three putatively acetylated peptides lacking b1 ion support for acetylation of the N-terminal residue, MS/MS signals within 23 ppm of the expected m/z of the acetylated b2 ion were observed. Interestingly in these three peptides (one representing the r-protein family L10a and two representing L28) the residue in the second position was capable of being acetylated, and hence acetylation of this second residue cannot be ruled out.  [[FIGURE]] Several Mascot searches considering various combinations and types of acetylation; formylation; and mono-, di-, and trimethylation as variable modifications matched several spectra to a modified form of the N-terminal peptide PPKLDPSQIVDVYVR, which matches redundantly to all three members of the L12 r-protein family (At2g37190, At3g53430, and At5g60670) (Table IV). The actual modifications reported by Mascot varied from acetyl (N-terminal) + formyl (Lys) to dimethyl (N-terminal) + trimethyl (Lys) depending on which combination of variable modifications was included in the search. The high peptide scores (often >50), the lack of any other significantly scoring assignments to this spectrum, and the fact that the spectra matched by Mascot to this modified peptide were detected in SDS-PAGE gel bands that gave rise to other L12-matching spectra suggested that this was a real peptide match, although the exact nature of the modification(s) was not clear from Mascot results except that they introduced a total nominal mass increase of 70 Da. Upon manual inspection of the most highly scoring spectrum, several lines of evidence suggested that the peptide was in fact dimethylated at the N-terminal proline residue and N-trimethylated at the ε-amino group of the Lys-3 residue. First, in the raw spectrum, signals corresponding to singly charged, unmodified y1–y6 and y10 ions were clearly present suggesting that the modification(s) adding 70 Da to the parent ion mass was located within the first five residues. This conclusion was supported by strong doubly charged b3–b5, b8, and b11–b14 series ions that were all ∼35 m/z (∼70 Da) higher than expected for the unmodified peptide. This confirmed that the modifications were localized to the first three residues, Pro-Pro-Lys-. Although a number of combinations of modifications that could occur at these residues could explain a nominal mass increase of 70 Da (e.g. formyl + acetyl, acetyl + dimethyl, formyl + trimethyl, or dimethyl + trimethyl), these modifications could be divided into three different accurate mass groups resolvable on the TOF mass analyzer: +C3O2H2 (+70.0055 Da), +C4OH6 (+70.0419 Da), and +C5H10 (+70.0783 Da). Calculation of the observed accurate mass shifts of the putatively modified doubly charged b3, b4, and b5 ions relative to the theoretical unmodified masses revealed that the observed signals for these ions in the raw spectrum corresponded to respective mass shifts of 70.0688, 70.0692, and 70.0782 Da. That is, the observed masses of the modified b3, b4, and b5 ions were, respectively, 44, 36, and 58 ppm closer to the masses expected for a +C5H10 modification (e.g. N-terminal dimethylation + lysine N-trimethylation) than to the next most isobaric modification, +C4OH6 (e.g. N-terminal acetylation + lysine N-dimethylation). This observation strongly suggested that the modifications responsible for the 70-Da mass increase within the first three N-terminal residues of L12 were caused entirely by the addition of alkyl groups, most probably five methyl groups. Given that the proline N terminus is theoretically capable of accommodating up to two methyl groups and the ε-amino group of lysine is capable of accommodating up to three, we propose that the most likely explanation for the observed data is that the N-terminal region of the Arabidopsis cytosolic r-protein L12 is N,N-dimethylated at the N-terminal proline and N,N,N-trimethylated at the ε-amino group of the Lys-3 residue (see annotated spectra in Fig. 6B).  Mascot searches considering mono-, di-, and trimethylation of lysine as variable modifications matched 27 MS/MS spectra to a total of 20 unique lysine-methylated r-protein-derived peptides with a parent ion delta mass <0.1 Da and peptide score >30. However, on closer inspection it was found that the spectra matched to nine of the 20 peptides actually matched more strongly with unmodified, isobaric peptides of similar sequence from closely related family members. Manual interpretation of the highest scoring spectra for the 11 remaining peptides revealed strong y series evidence for lysine methylation in three peptides (Table IV). Two of these manually confirmed peptide matches, MGLENMDVESLKMe3K (Mr = 1566.76) and MGLSNMDVEALKMe3K (Mr = 1508.71) where KMe3 represents trimethylated lysine, matched specifically to two members of the L10a family (At1g08360/RPL10aA and At2g27530/RPL10aB, respectively) providing strong evidence for site-specific N-trimethylation of Lys-90, which resides in a conserved region of At1g08360 (RPL10aA) and At2g27530 (RPL10aB). The third manually confirmed hit to a lysine-methylated peptide was to QSGYGGQTKMePVFHK (Mr = 1546.79), which matches redundantly to the two completely homologous isoforms of the L36a r-protein family, At3g23390 and At4g14320. The annotated spectrum for this peptide is shown in Fig. 6C.  Previous analyses of the eukaryotic ribosome from a variety of species have characterized a range of phosphoproteins from this complex. To obtain a more complete picture of the extent of protein phosphorylation of the Arabidopsis cytosolic ribosome, the in-gel phosphoprotein stain Pro-Q Diamond (Invitrogen) was used to obtain an in-gel phosphorylation profile (Fig. 4B). Significant staining was observed with the phosphostain in several regions of the 1D PAGE and cross-referenced with the Coomassie-stained version of the gel. Ribosomal proteins identified through mass spectrometry in these regions were highlighted as putative phosphorylation targets (Fig. 4B). Data from samples previously analyzed from these regions were reinterrogated with Mascot (Matrix Science) using the phosphorylation modification feature. Significant matches were only found for two peptides using this process, and both were derived from the two isoforms of RPS6 (Table IV). In an attempt to identify further phosphoproteins from the samples and further validate the phosphostaining, a phosphopeptide enrichment procedure using TiO2 was used on trypsin-digested ribosome lysates. A total of 10 μg of total ribosome protein was used for phosphoprotein enrichment with the enriched fraction analyzed by nano-LC-MS/MS. Resultant data were queried using Mascot (Matrix Science) with the phosphorylation modification enabled. Several significant matches were obtained to phosphopeptides derived from ribosomal proteins (Table IV), and all except the S6 peptides were shown to be highly enriched by the TiO2 procedure (data not shown). These included peptides derived from the entire family of acidic ribosomal proteins, P0, P1, P2, and P3, and a specific isoform of RPL13. The MS/MS spectra for all phosphopeptides were manually interrogated to ensure high levels of confidence for the match (supplemental Data 6), and the annotated MS/MS diagrams and MS/MS peak lists are provided in supplemental Data 7. The P3 spectrum is shown as an example in Fig. 6D. 
!~MM~! Predicted sequences for Arabidopsis ribosomal proteins were obtained from the file “ATH1_pep_20051108,” which was downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) website (www.Arabidopsis.org) as part of the TAIR6 Arabidopsis Genome Release. A modified version of the published Perl script, Proteogest (CITATION), and custom hypertext preprocessor (PHP) scripts were used to populate peptide database tables containing rows for every tryptic, chymotryptic, or peptic peptide sequence predicted from the set of 409 protein sequences annotated as ribosomal proteins or ribosomal protein-like proteins (allowing one missed cleavage) whereby each row represented an individual peptide-to-gene association. In addition to columns for peptide sequence and Arabidopsis Gene Index (AGI), the tables also included a column containing the name of the r-protein family to which each gene belonged according to the nomenclature of Barakat et al. (CITATION). These tables were used to map Mascot-reported peptide match information onto r-proteins and r-protein families and were processed by additional PHP scripts to generate lists of peptide sequences that were only derived from single genes (gene-specific) and calculate the predicted m/z ratios of [M + 2H+]2+ ions of total and gene-specific peptides for r-protein peptide ion m/z distribution analysis.  All steps were carried out on ice or at 4 °C. Approximately 100 g fresh weight of Arabidopsis cell culture was homogenized in 300 ml of extraction buffer (0.45 m mannitol, 30 mm Tris, 0.5% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone 40, 100 mm KCl, 20 mm MgCl2, 0.5% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, 20 mm cysteine) in a Waring blender for 2 min, and the homogenate was filtered through four layers of muslin. The filtrate was centrifuged for 5 min at 1500 × g, and the supernatant was again centrifuged at 16,000 × g for 15 min. The supernatant of this 16,000 × g sample was then centrifuged at 30,000 × g for 30 min. In 70-ml polycarbonate bottle assemblies (Beckman part number 355655), 50-ml portions of the 30,000 × g supernatant were then layered over 20-ml cushions of 1.5 m sucrose dissolved in Ribosome Buffer (30 mm Tris, 100 mm KCl, 20 mm MgCl2, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol) and centrifuged at 180,000 × g for 14.5 h to form a crude ribosomal pellet. Each crude ribosomal pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of Ribosome Buffer and centrifuged at 20,800 × g for 30 min to pellet insoluble material. The supernatants were combined, brought to a volume of 50 ml with Ribosome Buffer, and ultracentrifuged through 1.5 m sucrose as above. The pure ribosomal pellet was resuspended to a protein concentration of 6.5 mg/ml in Ribosome Buffer, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80 °C until use. This protocol yielded 2–3 mg of ribosomal protein from 100 g fresh weight of cells.  For the isolation of ribosomes from mitochondria, mitochondria were first purified from Arabidopsis by differential centrifugation and density gradient centrifugation essentially as described by Millar et al. (CITATION). A concentrated suspension of mitochondria containing ∼40 mg of mitochondrial protein was resuspended to a total volume of 50 ml in Ribosome Buffer containing 2% (w/v) Triton X-100. The suspension was incubated on ice for 30 min with occasional gentle mixing. The suspension was then clarified by centrifugation at 30,000 × g for 30 min, and the supernatant was layered over a 20-ml cushion of 1.5 m sucrose in Ribosome Buffer and centrifuged at 180,000 × g for 20 h. After removal of the supernatant, the ribosomal pellet was resuspended in a minimal volume of Ribosome Buffer, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80 °C until use.  Ribosome dissociation was essentially carried out according to Lin and Key (CITATION). Briefly 100 μg of purified cytosolic ribosomes were resuspended in 50 μl of either modified ribosome buffer (30 mm Tris, 100 mm KCl, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, pH 7.5) or modified ribosome buffer containing 0.5 m KCl. Resuspended samples were loaded onto a 10-ml linear sucrose gradient (15–30%) in either modified ribosome buffer or modified ribosome buffer containing 0.5 m KCl and subjected to ultracentrifugation at 260,800 × g at 4 °C for 4 h using a Beckman SW41 Ti rotor. Fractions of ∼200 μl were collected directly into 96-well plates using a peristaltic pump. Absorbance readings (A260 and A280) were conducted on a POLARstar OPTIMA microplate reader (BMG Labtech) using 200 flashes/well.  SDS-PAGE gels used were 4% acrylamide stacking gels above 12% (w/v) acrylamide, 0.1% (w/v) SDS or 5–16% (w/v) acrylamide, 0.1% (w/v) SDS in a large gel format (0.1 × 16 × 16 cm) and were run with a Tris-glycine buffering system. Gel electrophoresis was performed at 25 mA/gel and completed in 3 h.  Approximately 25 μg of ribosomal proteins were solubilized in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and loaded onto a 12% polyacrylamide gel (14 cm × 16 cm × 0.75 mm) overlaid with a 4% stacking gel. The sample underwent electrophoresis for 4 h at 30 mA and upon completion was fixed in a solution consisting of 10% acetic acid and 50% methanol overnight. Following three 10-min washes in ddH2O each, gels were stained with 100 ml of Pro-Q Diamond (Invitrogen) for 90 min and destained using three successive 30-min washes with 100 ml of destain solution containing 50 mm sodium acetate (pH 4.0) and 20% acetonitrile. After two washes in ∼100 ml of ddH2O for 5 min at a time, fluorescent images of in-gel phosphorylated proteins were acquired using a Typhoon fluorescence scanner (GE Healthcare) with 532 nm excitation, a 580-nm band pass emission filter, and the photo multiplier tube set at 500 for optimal Pro-Q dye detection. ImageQuant™ software was used to view Pro-Q staining of the 1D PAGE gel. The gel was then stained with colloidal Coomassie overnight with gentle rocking. Following staining, the solution was discarded, and the gel was destained in 0.5% phosphoric acid for 4 h.  TiO2 tips (NuTip) were supplied by Glygen Inc., and phosphopeptide enrichment procedures were essentially those outlined by Larsen et al. (CITATION) with some modifications. Briefly TiO2 tips were conditioned prior to binding of phosphopeptides by aspirating/expelling 10 μl of 0.1% TFA solution in ddH2O (pH ∼1.9) five times using a pipette and expelling all of the TFA solution from the tip. Before binding, the pH of a 5-μl sample containing 10 μg of trypsin-digested ribosomal peptide lysate mixture was adjusted to pH ∼1.9 by adding one part 1% TFA solution in ddH2O to four parts peptide mixture. The peptide mixture was aspirated/expelled 50 times using a pipette to ensure maximal binding of phosphorylated peptides to TiO2. The binding solution was then completely expelled from the tip. Bound samples were washed with 10 μl of 50% acetonitrile, 0.1% TFA aspirating/expelling the wash solution 10 times through the tip. This step was repeated two more times for a total of three wash steps. At the end of each wash step, all of the wash solution was expelled from the tip. Finally the bound phosphopeptides were eluted from the TiO2 tip by aspirating/expelling 10 μl of 0.3 m NH4OH solution in ddH2O (pH 10.5) 10 times through the tip. Portions of this eluate were used for nano-ESI-MS/MS analysis.  For gel-arrayed proteins, samples to be analyzed were cut from the gels and destained twice for 45 min in 10 mm NH4CO3 and 50% (v/v) acetonitrile. Samples were dehydrated at 50 °C in a dry block heater for 30 min and rehydrated with 15 μl of digestion solution, which for trypsin and chymotrypsin consisted of 25 mm NH4CO3 and 25 μg/ml protease in 0.01% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid and for pepsin consisted of 25 μg/ml pepsin in 7% (v/v) formic acid, and incubated overnight at 37 °C. Peptides were extracted by adding 15 μl of acetonitrile and vigorous shaking for 15 min, removing liquid, and adding 15 μl of 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and 5% (v/v) formic acid to the gel plugs followed by another 15 min of shaking (this step was repeated); washes were pooled after each extraction step. Samples were loaded onto self-packed Microsorb (Varian Inc.) C18 (5-μm, 100-Å) reverse phase columns (0.5 × 50 mm) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 series capillary liquid chromatography system and eluted into a QStar Pulsar i MS/MS system fitted with an IonSpray source (Applied Biosystems). Peptides were eluted from the C18 reverse phase column at 8 μl/min using a 9-min acetonitrile gradient (5–60%) in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Ions were selected automatically for the N2 collision cell utilizing the information-dependent acquisition capabilities of Analyst QS version 1.1 (Applied Biosystems) and the rolling collision energy feature for automated collision energy determination based on the m/z of the ions. The method used a 1-s TOF MS scan that automatically switched (using information-dependent acquisition) to a 2-s product ion scan (MS/MS) when a target ion reached an intensity of greater that 30 counts and its charge state was identified as 2+, 3+, or 4+. TOF MS scanning was undertaken on an m/z range of 200–900 m/z using a Q1 transmission window of 180 amu (100%). Product ion scans were undertaken at m/z ranges of 70–2000 m/z at low resolution utilizing Q2 transmission windows of 50 (33%), 190 (33%), and 650 amu (34%).  For ribosomal protein lysates, samples were digested with trypsin (1:10, w/w) in 10 mm NH4CO3 overnight at 37 °C. For initial analyses digested samples of 1–10 μg were analyzed directly or after TiO2 selection as above except bound peptides were eluted over a 30-min period (5–60% acetonitrile in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid) at 10 μl/min. The analysis method used was similar to that described above except a TOF MS scan range of 400–1200 m/z was used with a Q1 transmission window of 380 amu (100%). For more detailed analyses samples of ∼0.2–1 μg were analyzed on a QStar Pulsar i MS/MS system (Applied Biosystems) fitted with a NanoES source (Protana Inc.) outfitted with a New Objective adapter (ADPT-PRO) to allow direct liquid chromatographic coupling to the source. Samples were loaded using an 1100 series capillary LC system (Agilent Technologies) onto a capillary sample trap column containing a 100-μm × 2.5-cm C18 insert (Upchurch Scientific) at 1 μl/min in 5% (v/v) acetonitrile and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Bound peptides were eluted at 500 nl/min into the mass spectrometer after automatically switching a retrofitted 10-port nanobore valve (Valco Inc.) on the QStar Pulsar i by an 1100 series Nano Pump (Agilent Technologies). Peptides were eluted over a 30-min period and analyzed using parameters similar to those outlined above for LC-MS/MS analysis of lysates.  Resulting MS/MS-derived spectra were analyzed against an in-house Arabidopsis database comprising ATH1.pep (release 6) from TAIR and the mitochondrial and plastid protein sets (TAIR). This sequence database contained a total of 30,700 protein sequences (12,656,682 residues). Mascot Generic Format (.MGF) MS/MS peak lists were generated from raw Sciex Analyst format (.WIFF) data files with Mascot Daemon using the “mascot.dll 1.6b21 for Analyst QS 1.1” data import filter available from Matrix Science. The settings used for MS/MS peak list generation were: centroid survey scan ions (TOF MS) at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 0.1 amu (for charge state determination); centroid MS/MS data at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 2 amu; reject a CID if less than 10 peaks or if precursor mass less than 50 Da or greater than 10,000 Da; precursor mass tolerance for grouping, 1 Da; maximum number of cycles between groups, 10; minimum number of cycles per group, 1; default precursor charge states, 2+ and 3+. Searches were conducted using Mascot Search Engine version 2.1.04 (Matrix Science) with the following parameters: mass error tolerances of ±75 ppm for MS and ±0.6 Da for MS/MS; “Max missed cleavages” set to 2; variable modification, oxidation (Met); instrument set to ESI-Q-TOF. Results were filtered using “Standard scoring,” “Maximum number of hits” was set to 200, “Significance threshold” was set at p < 0.05. For initial searching, “Ions Score cut-off” was set at 0; however, peptide matches were later filtered to remove peptide matches with expect values above 0.05. To test the expected confidence levels of the analytical approach, false positive peptide identification rates under the matching criteria described above were estimated at 2.7% by searching against a randomized version of the sequence database used for real searches. More extensive protein modification options were used after initial matching was performed with putative modified peptide spectra manually interpreted to confirm modification.  Mascot peptide match reports thus produced were exported to comma-separated value text file format and parsed with a custom PHP script to collect and filter peptide match results, map peptide hits onto r-protein genes and r-protein families, produce customized tab-delimited text and HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) reports quantitatively summarizing MS/MS evidence for the detection of specific r-protein genes and r-protein families, and automatically generate annotated MS/MS spectral diagrams in scalable vector graphics (.SVG) format for manual verification of peptide identifications in cases where a protein identification was supported by a single spectrum. The script included steps to filter out peptide matches with expect values above a threshold value of 0.05, select the highest scoring MS/MS match to each non-redundant peptide sequence (different charge or modification states on the same peptide sequence were regarded as the same peptide sequence), and use the tables of in silico predicted peptides described earlier under “In Silico Digestion Analysis” to automatically assign and count “total” and “gene-specific” peptide hits to r-protein genes and total peptide hits to r-protein families and sum the Mascot “Ions Scores” for each of the resultant sets of unique top scoring hits to total and gene-specific peptides assigned to each r-protein and r-protein family. To avoid false positive claims of gene-specific r-protein identification based on ambiguous spectra, MS/MS spectra that gave significant matches to more than one peptide sequence were not allowed to contribute to gene-specific peptide counts and scores.  Size analyses of theoretical peptides derived from ribosomal proteins following cleavage by different enzymes are provided in supplemental Data 1. Generic format data files (.MGF) generated from the primary mass spectra based on the script explained above are provided as supplemental Data 2; these can be directly reanalyzed on line at Matrix Science by the reader. Detailed information of the mass spectra matching and individual peptide scores and sequence coverage information that form the basis of the identifications in Table I are provided in supplemental Data 3. Detailed information about the mass spectral matching and peptide scores for gene-specific matches to members of protein families among S, L, and P ribosomal proteins are in supplemental Data 4 together with annotated MS/MS spectra and MS/MS peak lists for gene-specific identifications and protein families supported by single peptide identifications and the protein families S29, L36a, S30, L39, and L29. Detailed information of the mass spectra matching and peptide scores for gene-specific matches to non-ribosomal proteins identified is supplied in supplemental Data 5. Detailed information on the spectra interpreted for different classes of post-translational modified peptides is presented in supplemental Data 6; annotated, centroided, and deisotoped spectra supporting these post-translational modification claims are provided in supplemental Data 7.  [[TABLE]]
