!~ABS~! During meiosis, homologous chromosomes recognize each other, align, and exchange genetic information. This process requires the action of RecA-related proteins Rad51 and Dmc1 to catalyze DNA strand exchanges. The Mnd1–Hop2 complex has been shown to assist in Dmc1-dependent processes. Furthermore, higher eukaryotes possess additional RecA-related proteins, like XRCC3, which are involved in meiotic recombination. However, little is known about the functional interplay between these proteins during meiosis. We investigated the functional relationship between AtMND1, AtDMC1, AtRAD51, and AtXRCC3 during meiosis in Arabidopsis thaliana. We demonstrate the localization of AtMND1 to meiotic chromosomes, even in the absence of recombination, and show that AtMND1 loading depends exclusively on AHP2, the Arabidopsis Hop2 homolog. We provide evidence of genetic interaction between AtMND1, AtDMC1, AtRAD51, and AtXRCC3. In vitro assays suggest that this functional link is due to direct interaction of the AtMND1–AHP2 complex with AtRAD51 and AtDMC1. We show that AtDMC1 foci accumulate in the Atmnd1 mutant, but are reduced in number in Atrad51 and Atxrcc3 mutants. This study provides the first insights into the functional differences of AtRAD51 and AtXRCC3 during meiosis, demonstrating that AtXRCC3 is dispensable for AtDMC1 focus formation in an Atmnd1 mutant background, whereas AtRAD51 is not. These results clarify the functional interactions between key players in the strand exchange processes during meiotic recombination. Furthermore, they highlight a direct interaction between MND1 and RAD51 and show a functional divergence between RAD51 and XRCC3.
!~RES~! We investigated the distribution of the AtMND1 protein during meiosis by immunolocalization in wild-type meiotic cells, using a polyclonal antibody against AtMND1. ASY1, an axial element protein, was used as a marker of meiotic progression [CITATION]. The specificity of the MND1 antibody was demonstrated in both western blot and cytology experiments by comparing wild-type and Atmnd1 mutant plants. The antibody did not result in a signal from mutant plant material following either experimental approach (CITATION and CITATION). Moreover, the signals observed in wild-type plant material disappeared in both western blot and cytology experiments when the serum was preincubated with the recombinant AtMND1 protein, confirming the specificity of the serum (CITATION and CITATIOND). Meiotic chromosomes from wild-type plants were strongly labeled with anti-AtMND1 antibody (CITATIONA–CITATIONC). AtMND1 was first detected at early leptotene, when ASY1 filaments had not yet completely formed along the chromosomal axes (CITATIONA). AtMND1 was also detected in the nucleolus. Several data suggest that the nucleolus may function as a reservoir of proteins, including proteins involved in DNA repair and meiosis [CITATION,CITATION]. A pool of AtMND1 protein may thus be stocked in the nucleolus. As meiosis progressed and the ASY1 signal extended all along the axial element, AtMND1 was detected along the entire length of the chromosome, in both unsynapsed and synapsed chromosome regions (CITATIONB and CITATIONC). The MND1 labeling was thicker than the one for ASY1, for which the signal was detected exclusively along the axis of the chromosomes. Thus, in clear contrast to ASY1, AtMND1 was localized to both chromosome axes and loop regions (CITATIONB and CITATIONC). Regions of lower and higher intensity of AtMND1 signal were detected, the higher-intensity regions resembling foci. The AtMND1 antibody yields two specific bands when applied to blotted protein extracts from wild-type buds, designated “H” and “L,” for AtMND1 species with “higher” (29.8 kDa) and “lower” (29 kDa) molecular mass (Lane 1). These bands were not detected in the Atmnd1 mutant (Lane 2). Furthermore, no such bands were detected when the serum was depleted of the specific AtMND1 antibody by preincubation of the serum with recombinant AtMND1 protein (Lane 4). The AtMND1 antibody was not depleted by incubation of the serum with BSA (Lane 3). The asterisk designates a nonspecific band. The preimmune serum did not recognize these two protein species (unpublished data). Male meiocytes of the wild type (A–D) and the Atmnd1 mutant (E). Chromosomes are stained with the ASY1 antibody (red), the AtMND1 antibody (green), and DAPI (gray). The AtMND1 antibody strongly labels the chromosomes and nucleolus in the wild type (B), whereas no signal is detected in Atmnd1 mutants (E). The signal disappears also in wild type when the serum was preincubated with the recombinant AtMND1 protein (D) but was not affected when the serum was preincubated with BSA (unpublished data). Scale bar, 10 μm. We analyzed the distribution of AtMND1 in several mutants. We investigated AtMND1 loading in mutants with disrupted meiotic recombination initiation (Atspo11–1), DSB processing (Atmre11), strand invasion, and homology search (Atrad51, Atxrcc3, and Atdmc1), and SC formation (asy1) [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. The distribution of AtMND1 was not affected in these six mutants (CITATIONA and CITATION), showing that the localization of AtMND1 is independent of the above-mentioned processes. We also investigated the distribution of AtMND1 in Atscc3 and Atrec8 mutants, to determine whether cohesion was required for AtMND1 loading on chromosomes [CITATION,CITATION]. We observed no aberration of AtMND1 distribution in these mutants (CITATIONB and CITATIONF). These results indicate that AtMND1 is present on meiotic chromosomes during meiosis, even in the absence of recombination, axis formation, or cohesion. This finding was confirmed by the normal AtMND1 distribution in swi1 mutants (CITATIONG), in which meiotic recombination, the establishment of cohesion, and the formation of axial elements are defective [CITATION,CITATION]. Male meiocytes of atspo11–1 (A), Atrec8 (B), and ahp2 (C) mutants. Chromosomes are stained with the ASY1 antibody (red), the AtMND1 antibody (green), and DAPI (gray). Magnified images of individual chromosome axes are shown within the white rectangles. No AtMND1 signal is detected in ahp2 meiocytes, whereas the distribution of AtMND1 appears to be normal in Atspo11–1 and Atrec8. Scale bar, 10 μm. We investigated whether AtMND1 distribution depended on AHP2, the Arabidopsis homolog of Hop2 [CITATION]. AtMND1 was not detected on the meiotic chromosomes of ahp2 mutants (CITATIONC), demonstrating the crucial role of AHP2 in controlling the distribution of AtMND1. We investigated the possibility of AtMND1/AtDMC1 colocalization in Arabidopsis, by coimmunolocalization studies on meiocyte spreads. AtDMC1 foci overlapped with the diffuse signals for AtMND1, but the regions strongly labeled for AtMND1 displayed no colocalization with the AtDMC1 foci (CITATION). Wild-type male meiocyte stained with the AtMND1 antibody (A), the AtDMC1 antibody (B), and DAPI (D). (C) was generated by merging A and B. AtDMC1 foci are not extensively co-localized with AtMND1 on meiotic chromosomes. Magnified images of individual chromosome axes are shown within the white rectangles. Scale bar, 10 μm. In almost all organisms, including A. thaliana, the Rad51 and Dmc1 recombinases are both required for meiotic recombination to be performed correctly [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. In addition, Arabidopsis has five RAD51 paralogs in its genome, all of which have homologs in mammalian genomes. Only two of these paralogs, AtRAD51C and AtXRCC3, have been shown to encode proteins with meiotic function [CITATION,CITATION]. We investigated the links between AtMND1 and RecA-related proteins in Arabidopsis, by studying the epistatic relationships between Atmnd1, Atrad51, Atdmc1, and Atxrcc3, and by analyzing the phenotypes of the corresponding double and triple mutants. In the wild type, homologous chromosomes synapse along their entire length at pachytene (CITATIONA). At this stage, a fully extended SC can be visualized by immunolocalization of the AtZYP1 protein, which forms the transverse filament of the SC [CITATION], coupled with immunolocalization of ASY1, to label the chromosome axes [CITATION] (CITATIONA). The first visible defect in Atrad51 and Atmnd1 mutants, which display similar meiotic phenotypes [CITATION,CITATION], is the absence of a normal pachytene stage. This stage is replaced by a failed pachytene stage with unsynapsed chromosomes (CITATIONB and CITATIONC). In Atdmc1 mutants, the chromosomes also fail to synapse (CITATIOND). In the Atxrcc3 mutant, synapsis has been reported [CITATION]; however, we observed exclusively failed pachytene stages (n = 125) and never synapsed chromosomes in this mutant (CITATIONE). We clarified the issue of synapsis by immunolocalizing AtZYP1 in Atdmc1, Atxrcc3, Atmnd1, and Atrad51 mutants. The Atdmc1 mutant has been shown to be defective in extensive AtZYP1 localization [CITATION] (CITATIONB). AtZYP1 is observed only as numerous foci on chromosome axes, a minority of which elongate to form short filaments. A similar pattern of staining was observed in this study for AtZYP1 in Atxrcc3, Atmnd1, and Atrad51 mutants (CITATIONC–CITATIONE), demonstrating that synapsis is impaired in all these mutants. A similar type of AtZYP1 loading was also observed when both recombinases, AtRAD51 and AtDMC1, were disrupted (CITATIONF). Male meiocytes stained with the ASY1 antibody (red) and the AtZYP1 antibody (green). During wild-type pachytene stages AtZYP1 extends along the entire length of the axes (A). In Atdmc1 (B), Atxrcc3 (C), Atmnd1 (D), Atrad51 (E), and Atrad51-Atdmc1 (F) mutants, AtZYP1 staining is restricted to a few foci and a few short stretches. Scale bar, 10 μm. During metaphase I in wild type, five bivalents align, allowing homologous chromosomes to segregate properly at anaphase I (CITATIONA and CITATIONB). Atmnd1, Atrad51, and Atxrcc3 mutants do not undergo classical metaphase I with the alignment of bivalents; instead, they display entangled chromosomes interconnected by chromatin links [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION] (CITATIONC and CITATION). Then the chromosomes start to separate at anaphase I, leading to chromosome fragmentation (CITATIOND and CITATION). We generated the associated double mutants and showed identical phenotypes compared to the single mutants (unpublished data). Taking advantage of the difference that the Atdmc1 mutant displays compared to Atmnd1, Atrad51, and Atxrcc3 at prophase end and afterward, we investigated the meiotic behavior of Atmnd1, Atrad51, and Atxrcc3 mutants in the Atdmc1 background to decipher the relationship between these factors. The chromosomes of the Atdmc1 mutant are not aligned as bivalents at metaphase I but instead, they remain as intact univalents [CITATION] (CITATIONE), resulting in random segregation at anaphase I [CITATION]. The metaphase–anaphase I stages of the double Atrad51-Atdmc1, and Atxrcc3-Atdmc1 mutants resembled those of the Atrad51 and Atxrcc3 single mutants (CITATIONF and CITATIONG), with the same pattern of chromosome entanglement followed by fragmentation. Thus, AtRAD51 and AtXRCC3 are epistatic to AtDMC1. In contrast, the Atmnd1-Atdmc1 double mutant had intermediate meiotic defects between those of the two single mutants. Its phenotype varied from meiocytes with ten apparently intact univalents (42%, n = 220) during metaphase-anaphase I (CITATIONH) to meiocytes with fewer chromatid links and milder chromosome fragmentation than the Atmnd1 mutant (CITATIONI). However, fragmentation defects and the abundance of chromatid links were obvious at the second division, after sister chromatid separation (CITATIONJ). Indeed, a larger proportion of meiocytes (98%, n = 57) presented fragmented chromosomes during the second division than during the first. Seed counts with the Atmnd1-Atdmc1 double mutant showed that seed formation rates were similar to those for the Atmnd1 single mutant, and significantly lower than those for the Atdmc1 single mutant (unpublished data). In wild type, five bivalents are aligned at metaphase I (A), and the homologous chromosomes segregate at anaphase I (B). In Atmnd1 (C), as in AtRad51 and Atxrcc3 (see CITATION), an entangled mass of chromosomes is observed at metaphase I, with chromatid connections between multiple chromosomes. Segregation at anaphase I leads to chromosome fragmentation (D). In Atdmc1, ten univalents are visible at metaphase I (E). Typical Atrad51 or Atxrcc3 single mutant metaphase I defects are seen in Atrad51-Atdmc1 (F) and Atxrcc3-Atdmc1 (G) double mutants, respectively. Metaphase I defects in Atmnd1-Atdmc1 mutants are intermediate between those of the single mutants: some meiocytes have ten univalents (H), whereas the others display chromatin links and fragmentation (I). In most Atmnd1-Atdmc1 anaphase II chromatid connections and fragmentation following chromatid separation were observed (J). The mutation of either AtRAD51 (K) or AtXRCC3 (L) in the Atmnd1-Atdmc1 mutant results in a typical Atrad51 meiosis defect. Scale bar, 10 μm. We also studied meiotic chromosomes of the Atrad51-Atdmc1-Atmnd1 and Atdmc1-Atmnd1-Atxrcc3 triple mutants. The metaphase–anaphase I phenotype of these mutants is similar to that of the Atmnd1, Atrad51, and Atxrcc3 single mutants (CITATIONK and CITATIONL). Thus, the depletion of AtRAD51 or AtXRCC3 in the Atmnd1-Atdmc1 background results in a reversion to a defect resembling the Atmnd1, Atrad51, or Atxrcc3 single-mutant defect. In conclusion, the disruption of AtMND1, AtRAD51, or AtXRCC3 leads to the same meiotic phenotype. The formation of intact univalents during prophase I in Atdmc1 mutants is only mildly affected by the Atmnd1 mutation, but absolutely requires AtRAD51 or AtXRCC3. We deduce that AtRAD51 and AtXRCC3 are epistatic to AtDMC1, and to AtMND1, in an Atdmc1 mutant background. As the Mnd1–Hop2 complex appears to be active in a Dmc1-dependent pathway (see Introduction), we investigated the distribution of AtDMC1 foci in Atmnd1 meiocytes. An antibody directed against a synthetic peptide specific for the AtDMC1 protein [CITATION] was used in immunolocalization experiments, together with an antibody against ASY1 [CITATION]. We analyzed the number of AtDMC1 foci on wild-type chromosomes during meiotic progression and obtained results similar to those reported by [CITATION], with the number of AtDMC1 foci maximal during zygotene (CITATIONA). The mean number of AtDMC1 foci in the wild type was 234 ± 89 (n = 28). We counted AtDMC1 foci in Atmnd1 cells during the failed pachytene stage replacing the wild-type zygotene-pachytene stages (CITATIONB). We observed a mean of 342 ± 103 (n = 22) foci, a number significantly higher than that for the wild type (p < 10−4; custom hypothesis tested with a contrast using the GLM procedure of SAS 8.1; SAS Institute). Thus, AtDMC1 foci accumulate in the Atmnd1 mutant, indicating a failure to progress in the meiotic strand invasion process. Distribution of AtDMC1 foci in male meiocytes of the wild type (A), Atmnd1 (B), Atrad51 (C), Atxrcc3 (D), Atrad51-Atmnd1 (E), and Atxrcc3-Atmnd1 (F) mutants. Chromosomes have been stained with the ASY1 antibody (red) and the AtDMC1 antibody (green). The AtDMC1-only (left) and the AtDMC1–ASY1 merge (right) images are shown. AtDMC1 foci are localized on the chromosome axes, as revealed by the ASY1 signal. The mean number of AtDMC1 foci for the wild type and all mutants is presented in the histogram (G). Scale bar, 10 μm. We analyzed the number of AtDMC1 foci in Atrad51 and Atxrcc3 mutants. The distribution of AtDMC1 was considerably altered in these mutants (CITATIONC and CITATIOND), with a mean of 50±11 (n = 21) foci in the Atrad51 mutant and 56±13 (n = 17) in the Atxrcc3 mutant (no significant difference between these two results; p = 0.81). We conclude that the AtRAD51 and AtXRCC3 proteins are required for efficient AtDMC1 foci formation. We therefore analyzed the number of AtDMC1 foci in Atrad51-Atmnd1 and Atmnd1-Atxrcc3 double mutants (CITATIONG). The Atrad51-Atmnd1 double mutant had far fewer AtDMC1 foci than the Atmnd1 single mutant (CITATIONE), with a mean of 87±16 foci (n = 17). This number of foci is significantly different from that for the Atmnd1 single mutant (p < 10−4) or the wild type (p < 10−4). The accumulation of AtDMC1 foci in Atmnd1 mutants therefore depends on AtRAD51. In contrast, the mean number of AtDMC1 foci in the Atmnd1-Atxrcc3 double mutant (CITATIONF, 217±76; n = 35) is only slightly lower than that for the Atmnd1 single mutant (p < 10−4). Thus, AtDMC1 foci formation is not dependent on AtXRCC3 in an Atmnd1 mutant background and we conclude that AtRAD51 and AtXRCC3 play different roles during meiosis. We addressed the issue of direct interaction between the RecA-related proteins—AtRAD51 and AtDMC1—and AtMND1/AHP2 by carrying out in vitro protein interaction studies with proteins produced by in vitro transcription and translation. We demonstrated binding of AtMND1 and AHP2 (CITATION, lane1), as anticipated in our previous study, in which this interaction was observed in a yeast two-hybrid system study [CITATION]. AtMND1 also interacted with itself, but the coimmunoprecipitation of an AtMND1–AtMND1 complex was only possible with one of the two epitope tags used (CITATION, lane 2). Interactions of AtMND1 with itself have also been reported in a yeast two-hybrid assay (unpublished data). Both AtMND1 and AHP2 interacted with AtDMC1 (CITATION, lanes 3 and 4). In addition, both AHP2 and AtMND1 interacted with AtRAD51 (CITATION, lanes 5 and 6). While the AHP2-AtRAD51 interaction was detected with only one of the two epitope tags used (CITATION, lane 5), the interaction of AtMND1 with AtRAD51 was detected with both of the two epitope tags (CITATION, lane 6). Coupled transcription/translation of AtMND1, AHP2, AtRAD51, and AtDMC1 was performed either alone or in the indicated combinations, in the presence of radioactively labeled L-methionine. Samples were split and incubated with one of the antibodies, directed against the c-myc or the HA epitope tag. The protein bands corresponding to AtMND1, AHP2, AtRAD51 and AtDMC1 are indicated. The first six lanes correspond to coimmunoprecipitation experiments, the following five lanes correspond to controls, demonstrating the specificity of the immunoprecipitations, and the last six lanes correspond to the cotranslated protein samples before immunoprecipitation.
!~MM~! The wild-type reference plant material used in this study was A. thaliana accession Columbia (Col-0). The mutants used were Atmnd1 [CITATION], Atrad51 [CITATION], Atdmc1 [CITATION], Atxrcc3 [CITATION], ahp2 [CITATION], Atspo11-1-2 [CITATION], Atrec8/dif [CITATION], Atscc3–1 [CITATION] swi1–2 [CITATION], and Atmre11 [CITATION]. Arabidopsis plants were cultivated in a greenhouse or growth chamber under the following conditions: photoperiod 16 h day/8 h night; temperature 20 °C day and night; humidity 70%. Double mutants were obtained by crossing plants heterozygous for each mutation. Double heterozygous plants identified in the F1 generation were self-fertilized to obtain the F2 generation. Plants in the F2 generation homozygous for the two relevant mutations were analyzed. The Atrad51-Atdmc1-Atmnd1 and Atdmc1-Atmnd1-Atxrcc3 triple mutants were obtained by crossing Atrad51-Atdmc1 and Atmnd1-Atxrcc3 double heterozygous plants from the F2 generations. Quadruple heterozygous plants were self fertilized and triple homozygotes in their offspring were identified and analyzed. Plants were selected by the PCR genotyping of individual plants, using diagnostic primer sets. Comparisons of the development of pollen mother cells were carried out as described by Grelon et al. [CITATION]. Prophase-stage spreads for immunocytology were prepared as described by Armstrong et al. [CITATION], incorporating the modifications described by Chelysheva et al. [CITATION]. All observations were made with a LEICA DM RXA2 microscope using an oil PL APO 100X/1.40 objective (Leica); photographs were taken using a CoolSNAP HQ (Roper) camera driven by Open LAB 4.0.4 software; all images were further processed with Open LAB 4.0.4 or AdobePhotoshop 7.0. The polyclonal anti-ASY1 antibody has been described elsewhere [CITATION], and was used at a dilution of 1:500. The polyclonal anti-AtZYP1 antibody has been described elsewhere [CITATION]. It was used at a dilution of 1:500. The purified polyclonal anti-AtDMC1 antibody was described by Chelysheva et al. [CITATION]. It was used at a dilution of 1:20. The full-length coding region of AtMND1 was inserted into the expression vector pET29 (Novagen) as an N-terminal fusion to a HIS tag. The resulting construct was transferred into E. coli BL21 cells (Novagen). Purified recombinant protein was prepared as previously described [CITATION] and used to produce a rat polyclonal antiserum (Eurogentec). This antibody was used at a dilution of 1:200. The specificity of the antibody was tested by preincubation serum, a dilution of 1:100 with 5 μg/mL of purified recombinant AtMND1 protein, or 5 μg/mL of BSA for 1h at 4 °C prior to its use for cytology and western blotting experiments. Secondary antibodies used were goat anti-rabbit AlexaFluor488, goat anti-rabbit AlexaFluor566, goat anti-rat AlexaFluor488, and goat anti-rat AlexaFluor566 (Invitrogen). Secondary antibodies were used at a 1:100 dilution. We constructed an AtMND1-HA fusion, by amplifying the AtMND1 cDNA in plasmid U50561 by PCR, using Pfu-polymerase (MBI Fermentas) and the primers SpeI_up (5′-TAACTAGTTCTAAGCTTCATCTTGTACTAGC-3′) and SmaI_dn (5′-ATCCCGGGATGTCTAAGAAACGGGGACTTTC-3′). This fragment was then ligated into pCR2.1.TOPO (Invitrogen). The AtMND1 cDNA was released by digestion with SpeI and SmaI and ligated into pCR2.1/3xHA digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to pCR2.1/MND1-3xHA (or MND1-3xHA for short), which encodes the HA tag fused to the N terminus of AtMND1 under the control of a T7 promoter. A vector encoding AtMND1 fused to a GAL4 DNA-binding domain was constructed by amplifying the AtMND1 cDNA contained within plasmid U50561 by PCR, using Ex-Taq (TaKaRa) and the primers M1 (5′-CATATGTCTAAGAAACGGGGACTTTC-3′) and M4 (5′-CTAAGCTTCATCTTGTACTAGC-3′). The resulting fragment was ligated into pCR2.1.TOPO (Invitrogen). The cDNA was obtained from this vector by digestion with NdeI/BamHI, and was ligated into pGBKT7 (Clontech) digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to the Y2H vector pGBKT7/AtMND1 (or MND1-myc). For construction of the AHP2-GAL4 DNA binding domain fusion, the AHP2 cDNA in pGAD10/AHP2 [CITATION] was amplified by PCR (Ex-Taq/TaKaRa) with the primers AHP2_Ncodn (5′-TAGTCCATGGCTCCTAAATCGGATAAC-3′) and AHP2_PstIup (5′-TATGCTGCAGTTACTGTCCTCGAGGCCTC-3′). The PCR fragment was digested with the restriction enzymes NcoI and PstI and ligated into pGBKT7 digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to the Y2H vector pGBKT7/AHP2 (or AHP2-myc). All fragments generated by PCR were sequenced to confirm error-free amplification. Antibodies were coupled to Protein G beads, by washing 30 μl of Protein G Sepharose (Amersham) three times with NET2 buffer (150 mM NaCl, 50 mM Tris-Cl pH7.4, 0.05% Igepal), incubating overnight at 4 °C with 300 μl of undiluted sera containing antibodies against the c-myc (#9E11) or the HA tag (12CA5) (both antibodies were generously provided by K. Nasmyth), and then washing three times with NET2 buffer. Vector DNA (1 μg) was used as a template for in vitro translation with the TNT Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega), as recommended by the manufacturer. One third of the reaction mixture was incubated for 2 h at 4 °C with myc-coupled beads, one third was incubated with HA-coupled beads, and one third was kept untreated. The beads were washed three times with buffer, resuspended in 10 μl 2× Laemmli sample buffer, and boiled at 95 °C for 5 min. The sample was briefly centrifuged in a microfuge and the supernatant was run on a 12% polyacrylamide gel. The gel was incubated for 30 min in 20% methanol/10% acetic acid with gentle shaking, followed by 15 min in acetic acid and 15 min in 24% diphenoloxazol (in acetic acid). The gel was then floated on dH2O, washed three times with dH2O for 5 min each, then incubated for 5 min with 3% glycerol and vacuum dried for at least 3 h at 60 °C.
