!~ABS~! The plant homologs of the archaeal DNA topoisomerase VI complex are required for the progression of endoreduplication cycles. Here, we describe the identification of MIDGET (MID) as a novel component of topoisomerase VI. We show that mid mutants show the same phenotype as rhl1, rhl2, and top6B mutants and that MID protein physically interacts with RHL1. The phenotypic analysis revealed new phenotypes, indicating that topoisomerase VI is involved in chromatin organization and transcriptional silencing. In addition, genetic evidence is provided suggesting that the ATR-dependent DNA damage repair checkpoint is activated in mid mutants, and CYCB1;1 is ectopically activated. Finally, we demonstrate that overexpression of CYCB1;2 can rescue the endoreduplication defects in mid mutants, suggesting that in mid mutants, a specific checkpoint is activated preventing further progression of endoreduplication cycles.
!~RES~! The mid-1 mutant was initially isolated as a recessive dwarf mutant from a population of 8000 activation-tagged T-DNA lines (CITATION). A second mid allele, mid-2, was obtained from the SALK T-DNA mutant collection (SALK_110705). Both alleles show a strong general growth reduction (Figures 1A and 1D ) and carry T-DNA insertions in the At5g24630 gene. The mid-1 allele has a T-DNA insertion in exon V, and the mid-2 allele a T-DNA insertion in intron III. A 3596-bp genomic fragment containing the At5g24603 gene rescued the mid-1 mutant phenotype completely, indicating that At5g24630 encodes the MID gene. [[FIGURE]] The full-length sequence of the MID cDNA was determined using 3′ and 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) techniques (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). MID is a single-copy gene that shows significant amino acid sequence similarity only to other plant genes, including the rice (Oryza sativa) Os02g0147700 gene (32% sequence identity), the Jerusalem artichoke (Cynara scolymus) EL434975 gene (35% sequence identity), and the barley (Hordeum vulgare) AK250018 gene (33% sequence identity). Several domains can be recognized, including two direct repeats, a putative HMG DNA binding domain, and a bipartite nuclear localization signal (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The general reduction in plant size correlates with a strong size reduction of various cell types, including trichomes (Figures 1B and 1C), hypocotyl cells, and leaf pavement cells (data not shown). The general reduction in cell size suggested to us that MID might be involved in DNA endoreduplication. To test this, we analyzed endoreduplication levels of leaves by flow cytometry. Both alleles show a strong shift toward lower endoreduplication levels. In mid-2 alleles, the population of 2C cells has become the most prominent fraction (Figure 1E). We confirmed this result for trichome cells by measuring the relative fluorescence intensity of the 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)–stained nuclear DNA. Wild-type trichomes typically undergo four rounds of endoreduplication and have a DNA content of on average 32C. By contrast, mid trichomes have a DNA content of ∼8 C (n = 56), which corresponds to two endoreduplication cycles. Together, these data suggest that MID function is required for DNA endoreduplication. To further explore whether MID assists the progression of endoreduplications, we used the trichome system for a genetic analysis. Here, various mutants are known that show higher or lower endoreduplication levels than the wild type (CITATION; CITATION). Double mutants of mid-1 with mutants forming trichomes with a DNA content of 64C, such as triptychon, kaktus, and rastafari, exhibit a small trichome phenotype indistinguishable from mid-1 (data not shown). This epistatic behavior of the mid-1 mutation suggests that the MID gene is essential for the progression of endoreduplication cycles. In addition to the cell size phenotype, the mid mutants produce fewer root hairs (Figures 2A and 2C ). To decide whether this is because root hair cell fate is not properly determined or whether root hair cells do not differentiate, we analyzed the expression and localization of specific markers in the mid mutants. Early events during cell fate specification can be monitored using root hair patterning genes expressed in future root hair cell files (trichoblasts) and non-root hair cells (atrichoblasts). Here, we analyzed the expression of CAPRICE:β-glucuronidase (CPC:GUS) as an early marker for developing atrichoblasts (CITATION) and ENHANCER OF GLABRA3 (EGL3):GUS (CITATION) as a marker for trichoblasts. Both markers showed an unchanged expression pattern in the mid mutant, indicating unperturbed position-dependent cell fate specification (Figures 2E to 2H). [[FIGURE]] We used the localization of ROP2 (for Rho-related GTPase from plants-2) as a marker for the earliest indication of actual root hair initiation. In the wild type, ROP2 protein becomes localized at the future root hair outgrowth site (CITATION). In the wild type, we found ROP2-green fluorescent protein (GFP) accumulation close to the apical end of trichoblasts marking the future root hair outgrowth site. By contrast, in the mid mutants, ROP2-GFP was not detectable in most of the root epidermal cells of the root hair initiation zone (Figures 2B and 2D). The outer cell layer of the Arabidopsis seed coat is characterized by hexagonally shaped cells with thick radial cell walls and a spindle (columella) centrally positioned in the cell. This distinctive cell shape is a result of the massive mucilage secretion in a ring between the plasma membrane and the outer cell wall that forces the cytoplasm in a columnar shape in the cell center. Seed hydration releases mucilage, providing the seed with a gelatin-like coating. The outer cell layer of the mid mutant seeds does not develop columella (Figures 2I to 2K), and seeds of the mid mutant fail to release seed coat mucilage after hydration (data not shown). Thus, MID is required for seed epidermal differentiation. To study the expression of the MID gene, a MID:GUS fusion was created that contained the 5′ upstream region used in the rescue experiments. All 10 transformants analyzed showed the same expression pattern. Expression was found in the actively proliferating tissues of the shoot and root (Figures 3A to 3D ). We also found expression in elongating hypocotyl cells and developing trichomes (Figure 3C) at a phase when their DNA undergoes endoreduplication; however, because of the stability of the used GUS reporter protein, it is not possible to decide whether this GUS staining is truly reflecting an expression in endoreduplicating tissues. [[FIGURE]] The MID protein contains a putative nuclear localization signal (predicted by PSORT algorithm) and AT hook-type DNA binding motives (predicted by SMART algorithm), suggesting that MID is located in the nucleus. To test the cellular localization of the MID protein, a translational fusion of MID and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) was created and expressed from the 35S promoter. This 35S:MID-YFP construct rescued the mid phenotype completely. It has been previously reported that YFP alone is equally distributed in the cytoplasm and the nucleus and that protein fusions larger than 50 kD are excluded from the nucleus (CITATION). In 35S:MID-YFP lines, a strong YFP fluorescence signal was found in the nuclei in different cell types, indicating that MID is a nuclear protein (Figures 3E and 3F). Except for the predicted nuclear localization and DNA binding motives, no further sequence similarity pointing to a potential function of MID was found. We therefore performed a yeast two-hybrid screen with MID as bait to identify interacting proteins. One of the found putative interactors, RHL1, was particularly interesting as the mid and rhl1 mutants show an identical phenotype. As RHL1 interacts with the A and B subunits of the Arabidopsis topoisomerase VI complex, RHL2 and TOP6B (CITATION), we speculated that MID is a new component of this complex. In support of this, the rhl2 and top6b mutant phenotypes are indistinguishable from mid and rhl1 (CITATION). To test this hypothesis, we created the mid rhl2 and mid topb6 double mutants. The double mutants showed the same phenotype as the single mutants (data not shown), indicating that the corresponding genes act in the same pathway. To test further the hypothesis that MID is a component of the topoisomerase VI complex, we tested interactions between MID and RHL1 by directed yeast two-hybrid assay and the bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay (BiFC; CITATION). Directed yeast two-hybrid assays confirmed the MID–RHL1 interaction found in the yeast two-hybrid screen (data not shown). To independently verify MID–RHL1 interactions by BiFC, we cotransformed plasmids encoding BiFC fusion constructs of the two proteins with the N- or C-terminal part of YFP into Arabidopsis protoplasts. A restored YFP fluorescence was localized in the nuclei of transfected protoplasts, suggesting that MID and RHL1 can interact in planta (Figures 4A to 4C ). Previous data on the interactions between RHL1 and RHL2 (CITATION) could also be confirmed by BiFC (Figures 4D to 4F). [[FIGURE]] To substantiate that MID and RHL1 are components of the topoisomerase VI complex in planta, coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) experiments were performed. We created transgenic plants harboring the 35S:RHL1-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and 35S:HA-RHL2 constructs and transgenic plants harboring the 35S:RHL1-CFP and 35S:HA-MID constructs. In these experiments, we could not detect the HA-MID protein in Co-IP experiments with the MID and RHL1 proteins with anti-HA beads (data not shown). However, we found that HA-RHL2 protein was immunoprecipitated with anti-GFP beads and RHL1-CFP with anti-HA beads from the plants harboring the 35S:RHL1-CFP and 35S:HA-RHL2 constructs (Figure 4G). Taken together, the results of the yeast two-hybrid screen, genetic interactions, BiFC, and Co-IP suggest that MID protein is part of the RHL1/RHL2/TOP6B complex and its function is essential for activity of Arabidopsis topoisomerase VI. Recent studies provide evidence for a role of Topo II in chromosome condensation during mitosis (CITATION) and implicated it in chromatin structure and organization in nonmitotic cells (CITATION; CITATION). To test genetically whether MID is involved in chromatin organization, we created a double mutant of mid-1 with a mutant defective in the p150 subunit (fasciata1 [fas1]) of chromatin assembly factor1 that was shown to affect the heterochromatin formation in nonmitotic cells in Arabidopsis (CITATION). The double mutant displayed dramatically reduced seedlings size and died shortly after germination (Figure 5A ). This synergistic phenotype suggests the involvement of the Arabidopsis topoisomerase VI in chromatin organization. [[FIGURE]] To further address the role of the Arabidopsis topoisomerease VI complex in heterochromatin formation, we analyzed DAPI-stained nuclei of several cell types in the mid mutant. Mitotic cells showed no detectable defects in chromosome condensation and ploidy levels (data not shown), suggesting that mitotic chromosome assembly and segregation are not dependent on Topo VI in Arabidopsis. However, nuclei of endoreduplicating cells, such as trichomes, elongated root epidermal cells, and occasionally root hairs, exhibited aberrant staining patterns (Figures 5B and 5C). In the wild type, highly condensed heterochromatic DNA consisting of centromeric and pericentromeric repeats and rDNA genes (CITATION) was visible as brightly stained distinct chromocenters in 81% of the nuclei (n = 31; Figure 5B). In the mid mutants, chromocenters are smaller and less defined (Figure 5C). Only 12% of the analyzed nuclei showed clearly defined chromocenters (n = 52), suggesting that heterochromatin organization is affected by the mid mutation. Generally, heterochromatic regions correlate with transcriptional gene silencing, whereas euchromatic regions show more transcriptional activity. Thus, defective heterochromatin formation in the mid mutant could result in a release of transcriptional silencing within heterochromatin regions. We used the TRANSCRIPTIONAL SILENCING INFORMATION A (TSI) gene as a marker to test this assumption. The TSI gene is located in centromeric regions and serves as a specific marker for disturbed transcriptional gene silencing (CITATION). As shown in Figure 5D, TSI expression is activated in the mid and fas1 mutants. Taken together, these data illustrate a role of Arabidopsis topoisomerase VI in heterochromatin-dependent transcriptional gene silencing. Cell cycle checkpoints detect various defects at different cell cycle phases and impose delays in the cell cycle progression. Two closely related protein kinases, ATM (ataxia telangiectasia-mutated) and ATR (A-T and red3 related), sense DNA abnormalities and send signals to regulate mitotic progression (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether defects in the Arabidopsis Topo VI complex activate a DNA damage response pathway, we created the respective double mutants mid atr and mid atm. Arabidopsis atm and atr mutants are viable and do not show any effect on plant growth and development under normal conditions except for a reduced fertility of the atm mutant (CITATION). atm mid double mutant plants were similar in size as the mid mutant and partially sterile (data not shown). By contrast, we could not isolate an atr mid double mutant. Among the 63 PCR-tested siblings of the mid-1/mid-1 atr/ATR progeny, 35 plants had mid-1/mid-1 atr/ATR and 18 plants had mid-1/mid-1 ATR/ATR genotype (close to a 2:1 ratio). The mid-1/mid-1 atr/ATR plants showed normal gametophytic transmission. Thus, genetic analysis suggests that the double homozygous mid atr plants are lethal. In a recent study, CITATION reported that genomic stress caused by γ-irradiation leads to a strong transcriptional activation of the Arabidopsis B-type cyclin (CYCB1;1). This upregulation depends on both the ATM and ATR kinases, with the ATM pathway inducing the CYCB1;1 transcription and the ATR pathway suppressing the degradation of the CYCB1;1 protein. We speculated that if the genetic link between MID and the ATM/ATR checkpoint is correct, mid mutants might also show an upregulation of CYCB1;1. We analyzed the expression of the pCYCB1;1:GUS reporter in the mid mutants (CITATION) and found expression not only in mitotic cells but also in differentiated cells, including cells that have endoreduplicated DNA-like trichomes and hypocotyl cells (Figures 6A and 6B ). One explanation for this finding is that the mid mutation induces mitotic entry in these cell types causing an induction of the mitotic cyclinB1;1 similar as in siamese mutants (CITATION). However, in >300 inspected trichomes, we found no multicellular situation as it is typical for siamese mutants. The data suggest that a loss of the topoisomerase VI function causes genomic stress that activates the ATR-dependent checkpoint and an ectopic induction of CYCB1;1:GUS. [[FIGURE]] Our findings suggesting that a G2 damage repair checkpoint is activated in the mid mutants led us to the hypothesis that the reduced endoreduplication levels are caused by a checkpoint-driven cell cycle arrest in endoreduplicating cells. If this hypothesis is correct, one would expect that bypassing the DNA checkpoint by the expression of cell cycle regulators would restore DNA endoreduplication in the Topo VI mutants. We tested this assumption by expressing a truncated version of the Arabidopsis CYCB1;2 gene under the control of the GL2 promoter in the mid mutants. This CYCB1,2 version carries a deletion of 133 amino acids at the C terminus, and it has been shown that its expression from the GL2 promoter leads to multiple nuclei in trichomes (CITATION). We analyzed 20 transformants and found weak rescue in five lines and full rescue of the mid mutant trichome phenotype in 15 lines. In these transformants, trichomes were rescued to normal size and branching. Also, the nuclear size was like the wild type (mid-2: 275 ± 82 μm2, n = 17; GL2:CYCB1,2 mid-2: 562 ± 100 μm2, n = 10; Columbia: 597 ± 163 μm2, n = 14; Figures 6C to 6H). The dwarf phenotype was not rescued. The same results were obtained for rhl2 mutants in which the GL2:CYCB1;2 construct was introduced (data not shown). In summary, these experiments suggest that the ATR-dependent DNA checkpoint response is relevant in endoreduplication cycles and that the expression of mitotic B type cyclin can bypass this checkpoint in endoreduplicating cells.
!~MM~! The mid-1 mutant (Columbia ecotype) was isolated in a screen of 8000 activation tagging T-DNA lines obtained from the Arabidopsis Stock Center (CITATION). The mid-2 mutant allele was isolated from the SALK T-DNA collection (Columbia ecotype; SALK_110705). In addition, the following other mutants were used in this study: atr-4 (ecotype Columbia; SALK_054383), atm-3 (ecotype Columbia; SALK_089805), fas1-4 (in C24 background; CITATION), kaktus, rastafari, and triptychon (Landsberg erecta background; CITATION), and rhl2 and top6B (Columbia ecotype; CITATION). Lines carrying multiple mutations and/or transgenes were constructed by crossing single mutants or transgenic plants, examining the F2 progeny for putative mutant phenotypes and verifying the genotype of selected plants in subsequent generations by backcrossing to single mutants and/or PCR-based tests. The histochemical analysis of plants containing the GUS reporter constructs was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Flow cytometry analysis was performed on propidium iodide–stained nuclei of the fully developed rosette leaves. The DISCUS software package (Carl H. Hilgers-Technisches Büro) was used to measure the fluorescence intensity of DAPI-stained nuclei. The C value was calculated using wild-type trichomes (32C) as a reference (CITATION). For RT-PCR and 5′ RACE analysis RNA was isolated from rosettes of 2-week-old plants. The 5′ RACE was done according to Invitrogen recommendations to determine the open reading frame of the MID gene. Gene-specific TSI-A primers used in RT-PCR and TA-F1 and TA-R1 were described previously (CITATION). Amplifications of the translation elongation factor EF1αA4 cDNA (primers EF1α-UP, 5′-ATGCCCCAGGACATCGTGATTTCAT-3′, and EF1α-RP, 5′-TTGGCGGCACCCTTAGCTGGATCA-3′) were used as control. 35S:MID-YFP was constructed by fusing MID cDNA and EYFP and cloning the fusion into p35S-HPT vector (CITATION). For rescue experiments, a 3596-bp genomic fragment was used that included 433-bp upstream and 18-bp downstream sequences. This fragment was introduced into a modified pCAMBIA3000 vector carrying a transcriptional terminator sequence. The MID:GUS reporter construct was designed as a translational fusion to GUS containing a 2115-bp MID genomic fragment comprising 433 bp upstream of the START codon and a part of the MID transcriptional unit including seven introns and coding sequence for the first 272 amino acids. 35S:MID-HA, 35S:RHL1-CFP, and 35S:RHL2-HA constructs were created using pEarleyGate plasmid vectors and Gateway-compatible vectors for plant functional genomics and proteomics (CITATION). Details of the used constructs are available upon request. Fusions with the GAL4 activation domain and GAL4 DNA binding domain were performed into the bait vector pCD2attR and into the pray vector pCACT2attR. All used constructs and empty vectors did not show self-activation in yeast. Yeast two-hybrid screens were performed as described before (CITATION). The Gal4BD-fused MID and RHL1 proteins were used as bait proteins to screen an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library (flowers, siliques, and green seeds). Polyethylene glycol–mediated transfection of Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed as previously described (CITATION). Biolistic transformation was performed using a Helios particle bombardment device (Bio-Rad). The bombarded cells of leak (Allium porrum) were then placed at 22°C in the dark and analyzed after 24 h. For every assay, 80 to 200 different transformed cells of at least two independent transformations were analyzed. Protein extracts were made from double transformed plants (Columbia ecotype) expressing HA-RHL2 and RHL1-CFP fusions under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Expression of RHL1-CFP was tested by fluorescence microscopy and expression of HA-RHL2 by protein gel blotting (see below). Young leaves (0.25 g) at the rosette stage were ground in 1 mL of lysis buffer complemented with 10 mM DTT, 0.1% SDS, and 50 μL protease inhibitor (Complete EDTAfree protease inhibitor). A 900-μL aliquot of this lysate was used with 50 μL of anti-GFP MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec) according to the manufacturer's instructions. HA and CFP fusion proteins were visualized by protein gel blotting using a monoclonal rat anti-HA antibody or a mouse anti-GFP antibody (Roche) and a horseradish peroxidase–conjugated goat anti-rat antibody or goat anti-mouse antibody (Jackson). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative data library under the following accession number: At5g24630 (MID). The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Information on the MIDGET Gene and MIDGET Protein.
