!~ABS~! CONSTITUTIVELY PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1 (COP1) and ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL5 (HY5) are two major regulators of light signaling in plants. Here, we identify SALT TOLERANCE HOMOLOG2 (STH2) as a gene that interacts genetically with both of these key regulators. STH2 encodes a B-box–containing protein that interacts physically with HY5 in yeast and in plant cells. Whereas STH2 is uniformly nuclear by itself, it shows a COP1-dependent localization to speckles when coexpressed with COP1. We identified two independent T-DNA insertion lines in STH2. Both alleles are hyposensitive to blue, red, and far-red light. The sth2 mutant, like hy5, shows an enhanced number of lateral roots and accumulates less anthocyanin. Analysis of double mutants between sth2 and hy5 indicates that STH2 has both HY5-dependent and -independent functions. Furthermore, besides partially suppressing the hypocotyl phenotype of dark-grown cop1 alleles, sth2 also suppresses the reduced number of lateral roots and high anthocyanin levels in light-grown cop1 alleles. Interestingly, we found that STH2 can activate transcription. Transient transfection assays in protoplasts using a LUC reporter driven by the chalcone isomerase promoter show that the B-boxes in STH2 and a functional G-box element in the promoter are required for this activity. In conclusion, we have identified STH2, a B-box protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, as a positive regulator of photomorphogenesis and report that the B-box domain plays a direct role in activating transcription in plants.
!~RES~! In an effort to identify putative regulators of light signaling, COP1 was used as bait in a yeast-two hybrid screen (CITATION, CITATION). STO, STH1, and COL3, all containing B-boxes, were identified in this screen (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, STO as well as a related protein, STH2, had been identified previously in a yeast two-hybrid screen using HY5 as bait; however, in both cases, the cDNAs had 5′ untranslated region sequences that put them out of frame from the activation domain (T. Oyama, personal communication). STH2, like STO and STH1, contains two B-boxes in the N-terminal region, which show 57.3 and 52.7% amino acid identity respectively (Figure 1A ). To confirm and further characterize the interaction between HY5 and STH2, we inserted the STH2 cDNA into the pYX141 yeast expression vector, where the cDNA is expressed from a weak promoter, and assayed its interaction with HY5 in liquid β-galactosidase assays (Figure 1D). The STH2 protein expressed from the pYX141 vector did not activate transcription together with the Gal4 DNA binding domain (Gal4-DBD) vector control but resulted in a 24-fold increase in β-galactosidase activity over the vector control when expressed together with Gal4-DBD-HY5. [[FIGURE]] In order to map the interaction between HY5 and STH2, we examined the interactions between wild-type and mutated HY5 and STH2 proteins in β-galactosidase assays. To this end, we used Gal4-DBD fusions of full-length HY5 and two truncated HY5 proteins with either the Leu zipper domain (amino acids 115 to 168) or the basic zipper domain (amino acids 77 to 168) deleted (Figure 1B). Deletion of the zipper domain or the basic zipper domain in HY5 resulted in a dramatic reduction in β-galactosidase activity, indicating that the basic zipper domain is required for the interaction with STH2 (Figure 1D). To further characterize the interaction between HY5 and STH2, we individually substituted three conserved Asp residues in the B-boxes of STH2; two of the residues, Asp-20 and Asp-75, correspond to Zn2+-ligating residues in the B-box protein MID1 (CITATION), and substitution of these is likely to disrupt the structure of the B-box. The substituted proteins were named STH2-B1, -B2, and -B3, respectively (Figures 1C and 1D). We found that all three substitutions resulted in dramatic reductions of β-galactosidase activity compared with wild-type levels (Figure 1D). Together, these results suggest that the basic zipper domain in HY5 and the B-boxes in STH2 are important for the HY5–STH2 interaction. HY5 gives a diffused nuclear fluorescence when expressed in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells (CITATION) (Figure 2A ). In order to determine the subcellular localization of the STH2 protein, we prepared a Cyan Fluorescent Protein (CFP) fusion of STH2 and expressed it in onion epidermal cells. STH2, like HY5, localizes uniformly throughout the nucleus (Figure 2A). Since both proteins give a diffused nuclear fluorescence, we proceeded to examine whether they interact physically within the nucleus. To this end, we examined whether fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) occurred between the two fusion proteins using the acceptor photobleaching technique. Here, we coexpressed CFP-STH2 with Yellow Fluorescent Protein (YFP)–fused HY5 and excited them with 405- and 514-nm lasers. Both CFP and YFP fluorescence were detected before the bleach (Figure 2A, top panels). After raising the intensity of the 514-nm laser, the YFP fluorescence from the acceptor, YFP-HY5, was bleached (Figure 2A, bottom panel). The bleaching of the acceptor resulted in an increased emission from CFP-STH2, as shown in Figures 2A and 2B, indicating that FRET had occurred between the two proteins prior to the bleach. [[FIGURE]] COP1 has previously been shown to be able to recruit HY5 as well as several other interacting proteins to nuclear speckles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since STH2 showed a similar localization pattern to HY5, we wanted to determine whether STH2 interacts with COP1 in vivo. To this end, we coexpressed unfused COP1 (35S:COP1) with CFP-STH2 in onion epidermal cells. A weak uniform fluorescence with consistent nuclear speckles was seen (Figure 2C). Since STH2 by itself gives a uniform fluorescence, the detection of nuclear speckles when coexpressed with untagged COP1 suggests the recruitment of STH2 into COP1 speckles. Coexpression of CFP-COP1 also resulted in the localization of YFP-STH2 into nuclear speckles; however, we did not detect any FRET in these experiments (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In order to examine the role of STH2 in light-regulated development, we obtained T-DNA insertions in the STH2 gene (At1g75540) from the SALK collection. The STH2 gene is located on the bottom arm of chromosome I and contains three exons. We identified two T-DNA insertions in the STH2 gene (Figure 3A ). The first insertion is located in the 5′ untranslated region at nucleotide position −43 from the start ATG and results in a total loss of STH2 mRNA (Figure 3B), indicating that it is a null mutation. This null mutant is in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) accession and was named sth2-1. The second allele, sth2-2, is in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) accession. There, the T-DNA insertion is present in the third exon and the RNA gel blot revealed weak signals from larger transcripts, possibly STH2–T-DNA fusion transcripts, in sth2-2 (Figure 3B), suggesting that sth2-2 is a knocked down allele. Both mutant lines sth2-1 and sth2-2 were backcrossed into their corresponding wild-type backgrounds, Col-0 and Ler, respectively, and sth2-1 was also crossed into hy5-215, hy5-ks50, cop1-4, and cop1-6. The backcrossed F1 plants were indistinguishable from wild-type plants, and we observed a 3:1 (wild type:sth2) segregation in the F2 plants, in which the selection markers cosegregated with the phenotypes. This suggests that the mutations are recessive in nature and that single T-DNA loci were responsible for the observed phenotypes in sth2-1 and sth2-2. [[FIGURE]] The homozygous sth2 mutants were germinated at different fluences of monochromatic blue, red, and far-red light to examine whether STH2 plays a role in light-mediated seedling development. We found that sth2 had longer hypocotyls in blue light and that the effect became more pronounced at higher fluence levels (Figure 4 ). At a fluence level of 9 μmol·m−2·s−1, the sth2-1 seedlings were 65.6% longer than the Col-0 seedlings and the sth2-2 seedlings compared with Ler seedlings had 31.4% longer hypocotyls (Figures 4A and 4B). At very low fluence levels (0.09 μmol·m−2·s−1), the sth2 mutant was indistinguishable from wild-type plants, suggesting that sth2 is specifically hyposensitive to higher fluence levels of blue light. Similar effects were seen in monochromatic red light (Figures 4C and 4D). At high fluence levels (50 μmol·m−2·s−1), both alleles had longer hypocotyls than the corresponding wild-type plants and the difference in hypocotyl length became lower with reduction in the fluence levels. Under far-red light, at a fluence level of 20 μmol·m−2·s−1, the sth2-1 mutant seedlings had 76.7% longer hypocotyls than the Col-0 seedlings, whereas the sth2-2 seedlings were 84.3% longer compared with Ler seedlings. [[FIGURE]] The homolog of STH2, STO, was first identified as an Arabidopsis protein that could ectopically rescue the salt sensitivity of calcineurin-deficient yeast (CITATION) and later shown to enhance root growth tolerance to high salinity upon overexpression in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, we examined the root growth of sth2-1 in high-salt medium; however, as has been reported for sto T-DNA and RNA interference lines (CITATION), we saw no distinguishable salt tolerance or sensitivity in the sth2-1 loss-of function allele (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Together, these phenotypes suggest that STH2 acts as a positive regulator of light-dependent inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. We tried to examine whether daylength had any effect on the seedlings. To this end, we germinated homozygous sth2 seedlings along with their corresponding wild types under long-day (16 h of light/8 h of dark) and short-day (8 h of light/16 h of dark) conditions. While we did not see a significant effect under long days, in short days sth2 seedlings were slightly longer than the wild-type seedlings (Figure 5A ). [[FIGURE]] Since hy5 has long hypocotyls in all light conditions, we wanted to check the phenotype of the sth2 hy5 double mutant. We generated homozygous sth2 hy5-215 and sth2 hy5-ks50 double mutants and germinated them in the different light conditions together with the single mutants and the respective wild types (Figure 5). While both sth2-1 and hy5-215 are in the Col-0 accession, hy5-ks50 is in Wassilewskija. Interestingly, under all light conditions tested, the sth2-1 hy5-ks50 seedlings had longer hypocotyls than the hy5-ks50 single mutant seedlings. However, owing to the mixed genetic background of sth2-1 hy5-ks50, we decided to focus on the effects seen in the isogenic cross sth2-1 hy5-215. In short days and in red light, the sth2 hy5-215 double mutants were almost indistinguishable from hy5, indicating that under these conditions hy5 is epistatic to sth2 (Figures 5A and 5B). By contrast, in blue and far-red light, the sth2 hy5 double mutant had significantly longer hypocotyls than hy5-215, 12.8 and 22.3%, respectively (Figures 5C and 5D). These results suggest that while the long hypocotyl phenotype of sth2 is dependent on a functional HY5 protein in short days and red light, it is independent of HY5 in blue and far-red light. Since we had seen a COP1-dependent localization of STH2 in onion epidermal cells, we wanted to examine the genetic relationship between the two mutants. To this end, we generated double mutants between sth2-1 and two different cop1 alleles, cop1-4 and cop1-6. cop1 mutants show a very dramatic phenotype in the dark wherein they have short hypocotyls and open expanded cotyledons. sth2, on the other hand, does not show any significant difference from the wild type when grown in the dark. Interestingly, the sth2 cop1 double mutants, when germinated in the dark, had longer hypocotyls than the cop1 single mutants (Figures 6A and 6B ). However, there was some difference in the extent of suppression between the different alleles of cop1. While the sth2 cop1-4 double mutant seedlings were 39.4% longer than cop1-4 seedlings, sth2 cop1-6 showed an increase of 30.3% over the cop1-6 single mutant. These results indicate that sth2 acts as a weak allele-specific suppressor of cop1 in the dark. [[FIGURE]] Examination of publicly available microarray data (www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) showed high expression of STH2 in the radical, indicating a possible role of the gene in root development. Previous studies have shown that several regulators of light signaling, such as COP1, HY5, HYH, and COL3, have an effect on the formation of lateral roots (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In order to determine whether STH2 also plays a role in lateral root development, seedlings were germinated on vertical plates and grown for 8 or 9 d under different light conditions. In all light conditions tested, we found that the sth2 mutants had more emerged lateral roots than the corresponding wild types. Since the effect was more pronounced under white light in short-day conditions, we performed all experiments in this condition (Figure 7 ). In order to understand the genetic relationship with hy5 and cop1 with respect to the lateral root phenotype, we studied the sth2 hy5 and sth2 cop1 double mutants. Interestingly, the sth2-1 mutant has 67.6% more lateral roots than hy5-215, but hy5 is epistatic to sth2 in this phenotype. By contrast, cop1 mutants have a reduced number of lateral roots compared with the wild type. sth2 can suppress this phenotype in the sth2 cop1 seedlings; however, while the sth2 cop1 double mutants have significantly more lateral roots than wild-type plants, they have fewer than the sth2 single mutant. Interestingly, the suppression seen in the sth2 cop1-4 double mutant was more than that seen in sth2 cop1-6, again indicating an allele-specific genetic interaction. In conclusion, sth2 like hy5 has an enhanced number of emerged lateral roots and hy5 is epistatic to sth2 with respect to lateral roots; furthermore, sth2 can suppress the reduced number of lateral roots in the cop1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] hy5 and cop1 show altered levels of anthocyanin accumulation, while hy5 has reduced levels, and cop1 accumulates more anthocyanin. Since sth2 was found to interact genetically with both hy5 and cop1, we decided to determine whether sth2 affects anthocyanin accumulation. To this end, seedlings were grown in different light conditions for 3 d. We saw that the sth2 seedlings looked significantly paler than the wild-type plants when grown under blue light, but the apparent difference was less pronounced in red or white light. Anthocyanin levels were measured in both alleles of sth2 grown for 3 d in different light conditions. Indeed, seedlings of both sth2 alleles accumulated less anthocyanin than the corresponding wild-type seedlings under all light conditions tested. While in sth2-1 the levels were 47.5% of Col-0, sth2-2 showed 53.6% accumulation with respect to Ler under blue light, and the corresponding levels were 65.6% of Col-0 for sth2-1 and 60.9% of Ler for sth2-2 in white light (Figures 8A and 8C ). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the genetic relationships between sth2, hy5, and cop1, anthocyanin levels were measured in the double mutant seedlings (Figures 8A to 8D). Similar to the effect seen in lateral roots, we found that the anthocyanin levels in the sth2 hy5 double mutants were close to the levels present in the hy5 single mutants, indicating an epistatic relationship between hy5 and sth2 with respect to the accumulation of this pigment. On the other hand, the enhanced accumulation of anthocyanin in the cop1 mutants was suppressed in the sth2 cop1 double mutants, again similar to the effect seen in the roots. In conclusion, STH2, like HY5, positively regulates the anthocyanin levels in light and can partially suppress the enhanced anthocyanin accumulation in cop1. Since we found that STH2 and HY5 proteins interact and the phenotypes of sth2 suggest a role in HY5-regulated processes, such as the accumulation of anthocyanin, we decided to investigate a possible functional interaction between the two proteins on a promoter in vivo. For this, we set up a transient transfection assay in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION) using the chalcone isomerase (CHI) promoter as a reporter. CHI is the second committed enzyme in the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway. The CHI promoter has a G-box, and the expression of CHI has been reported to show strong HY5 and COP1 dependence (CITATION). The CHI-LUC reporter was transfected into protoplasts along with a 35S-RnLUC internal control and 35S-STH2 or an empty 35S vector. As shown in Figure 9B , STH2 activated transcription at 7.35-fold above the basal levels from a 610-bp fragment of the CHI promoter. To examine the role of the B-boxes in this activity, we tested the three STH2 proteins with amino substitutions in their B-boxes (Figure 9A) and found an almost complete abolishment of activation in the case of the B1 mutation and reductions in activation by 68.8 and 67.3% in the B2 and B3 mutations, respectively, indicating that the B-boxes play a direct role in transcriptional activation. Furthermore, mutating the G-box core from CG to TA resulted in negligible activation by STH2, suggesting that STH2 might act through this G-box (Figures 9A and 9B). Thus, STH2 can activate transcription, and the B-boxes in STH2 and a functional G-box element in the promoter are required for the transcriptional activity of STH2. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The sth2-1, hy5-215, cop1-4, and cop1-6 alleles are in the Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 accession, sth2-2 is in Ler, and hy5-ks50 (CITATION) is in Wassilewskija. Unless stated otherwise, seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.8% Bactoagar (Difco) and 1% sucrose. The plates were then cold-treated at 4°C for 3 d and transferred to light chambers maintained at 22°C with the desired light regime. The β-galactosidase assays were performed as described (CITATION). For the FRET acceptor photobleaching experiments, the pAM-PAT-35SS-YFP-HY5, pAM-PAT-35SS-CFP-STH2, and pRTL2-COP1 overexpression constructs were introduced into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells by particle bombardment and incubated, and live cell images were acquired using an Axiovert 200 microscope equipped with a laser scanning confocal imaging LSM 510 META system (Carl Zeiss). Cells were visualized at 20 h after particle bombardment using the confocal microscope through a Plan-Neofluor 403/1.3 oil (differential interference contrast) objective. The multitracking mode was used to eliminate spillover between fluorescence channels. The CFP was excited by a laser diode 405 laser and the YFP by an argon-ion laser, both at low intensities. Regions of interest were selected and bleached with 100 iterations using the argon-ion laser at 100%. Total RNA was extracted from seedlings grown in continuous white light for 6 d after germination using the RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen). Twenty micrograms of total RNA was loaded for the RNA gel blot analysis. A full-length STH2 open reading frame was used as a probe to detect transcript levels in the wild-type, sth2-1, and sth2-2 backgrounds. For all monochromatic light assays, plates were cold-treated at 4°C for 3 d and then transferred to continuous white light for 8 h to induce uniform germination. The plates were then transferred to monochromatic light conditions and incubated at 22°C for 6 d in the case of hypocotyl experiments and for 9 d for the measurement of roots. Blue, red, and far-red light were generated by light emission diodes at 470, 670, and 735 nm, respectively (model E-30LED; Percival Scientific). Fluence rates for blue and red light were measured with a radiometer (model LI-250; Li-Cor), and for far-red light we used an opto-meter (40A Opto-Meter; United Detector Technology). The hypocotyl length of seedlings and the number of lateral roots were measured/counted using ImageJ software. For the anthocyanin determinations, seedlings were harvested at 3 d after putting them in light, weighed, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground, and total plant pigments were extracted overnight in 0.6 mL of 1% HCl in methanol. After the addition of 0.2 mL of water, anthocyanin was extracted with 0.65 mL of chloroform. The quantity of anthocyanins was determined by spectrophotometric measurements of the aqueous phase (A530 to A657) and normalized to the total fresh weight of tissue used in each sample. Arabidopsis mesophyll cell protoplasts were generated and transfected as described previously (CITATION). The reporter used was a 610-bp fragment of the CHI promoter driving firefly luciferase (pPCV814-CHI610). Full-length STH2 driven by a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was used as the effecter (pRTL2-STH2). The B-box–mutated STH2 constructs used in this study are the same as those described previously. For detection, the dual luciferase system was used (Promega). Renilla lucerifase driven by a full-length cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was used as an internal control (pRNL). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: At1g75540 (STH2), A5g11260 (HY5), At2g32950 (COP1), At2g31380 (STH1), and At1g06040 (STO). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. STH2 Colocalizes with COP1 but Does Not Show FRET. Supplemental Figure 2. The Loss of STH2 Does Not Affect Tolerance to Salt.
