!~ABS~! HEXOKINASE1 (HXK1) from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) has dual roles in glucose (Glc) signaling and in Glc phosphorylation. The cellular context, though, for HXK1 function in either process is not well understood. Here we have shown that within normal experimental detection limits, AtHXK1 is localized continuously to mitochondria. Two mitochondrial porin proteins were identified as capable of binding to overexpressed HXK1 protein, both in vivo and in vitro. We also found that AtHXK1 can be associated with its structural homolog, F-actin, based on their coimmunoprecipitation from transgenic plants that overexpress HXK1-FLAG or from transient expression assays, and based on their localization in leaf cells after cryofixation. This association might be functionally important because Glc signaling in protoplast transient expression assays is compromised by disruption of F-actin. We also demonstrate that Glc treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings rapidly and reversibly disrupts fine mesh actin filaments. The possible roles of actin in HXK-dependent Glc signaling are discussed.
!~RES~! We used several approaches to test whether AtHXK1 is indeed bound to mitochondria and whether it might dissociate and/or move to the nucleus under a range of treatments. First, we examined localization of HXK1-GFP fusion proteins after their transient expression in leaf protoplasts. HXK1-GFP has typical HXK1 functions of abundant Glc phosphorylation activity (data not shown) and normal levels of Glc signaling activity in protoplast transient expression assays (Supplemental Fig. S1). Bioimaging revealed specific mitochondrial association of HXK1-GFP in transfected mesophyll protoplasts from Arabidopsis (Fig. 1, A–C ), as well as maize (Zea mays) and pea (data not shown). We showed that HXK1-GFP is expressed at mitochondria by costaining with the organelle-selective reagent, MitoTracker Red (Fig. 1B). The fluorescence patterns from both fluorophores overlap completely and can be merged (Fig. 1C). Moreover, we observed similar fluorescence patterns of expressed HXK1-GFP and mitochondrial porin-GFP (Fig. 1D). However, transfected HXK1 (Fig. 1A) did induce association of mitochondria into larger, less numerous foci than observed for transfected porin-GFP, even with high expression levels of the latter. We also examined whether the localization of HXK1-GFP might change in protoplasts treated with Glc, Suc, auxin, or extended exposure to light or darkness. However, none of these treatments altered the subcellular targeting of HXK1 to the mitochondria (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] As further evidence of the mitochondrial targeting of AtHXK1, we showed that the N-terminal, 27-amino acid peptide from HXK1 is both necessary and sufficient for targeting to mitochondria in transfected leaf protoplasts. HXK1ΔN-GFP (lacking amino acids 1–27) was localized to the cytosol (Fig. 1, E and F), whereas HXK1ΔC-GFP (lacking amino acids 28–496) was localized to the mitochondria (Fig. 1, G and H; see also, CITATION). Similarly, yeast HXK2-GFP also lacks an N-terminal membrane anchor (CITATION) and is expressed only in the cytosol (Fig. 1I). Neither of the two constructs expressed in the cytosol were observed to localize even partly to the nucleus, or elsewhere, after different protoplast treatments (data not shown). Second, as a follow-up to the localization experiments using transient expression assays, we also examined protein localization in stable transgenic seedlings that express HXK1-GFP (Fig. 2, A–D ). GFP fluorescence occurred in smaller punctate areas of the cells as in transient expression studies, but, in this case, they also occurred in some larger foci. Costaining with MitoTracker Red again showed specific fluorescence of the same smaller foci, plus many of the larger foci. The identity of the larger foci is uncertain. They could represent aggregated mitochondria and/or they could be artifacts from protein overexpression. However, as seen with the protoplast studies, seedling treatments with sugars or extended periods of light or darkness did not affect the mitochondrial location of HXK1-GFP (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We extended these observations with two different approaches to determine the subcellular localization of native HXK1: immunostaining of seedling leaves after cryofixation and acetone freeze substitution and immunoblotting of purified organelles from mature leaves. In the former case, we used a polyclonal antibody to HXK1, followed by a fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated secondary antibody (Fig. 2, E, F, and H). This antibody reacts well with other HXKs (CITATION; B. Moore, unpublished data). As a positive control, we tested a monoclonal antibody to pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH; Fig. 2G). We observed HXK1 antigen in numerous fusiform shapes that were occasionally in close proximity to chloroplasts and nuclei. We observed that PDH antigen occurred in similarly shaped structures. We also examined by western blot the distribution of AtHXK1 antigen in different organelle fractions of pea and Arabidopsis leaves (Fig. 3, A and B ). As reported elsewhere (CITATION), pea protein that cross-reacts with anti-HXK1 antibody occurred only in the isolated mitochondrial fractions and was not present in the cytosolic, nuclear, or chloroplast fractions. Proteins from isolated Arabidopsis leaf mitochondria also cross-reacted with anti-HXK1 antibody under these conditions, whereas the nuclear protein fraction did not. Thus, AtHXK1 did not occur at readily detectable levels in isolated nuclei from pea or Arabidopsis. Because isolated mitochondria from castor bean endosperm will release bound HXK following treatment with hexose phosphates (CITATION), we also tested whether different phosphorylated metabolites might induce the release of HXK from isolated pea mitochondria (Fig. 3C). However, treatment of the mitochondrial fraction with a variety of sugar phosphates or adenylates did not result in any apparent release of HXK1 antigen. These results extend similar recent observations that treatments of maize and rice (Oryza sativa) mitochondria with a variety of sugars and related metabolites failed to solubilize bound HXK (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To identify proteins that might interact with HXK1, we first used a proteomics approach to immunocapture HXK1-FLAG from leaf extracts of a constitutive overexpression line made in gin2-1, a HXK1 null mutant (CITATION). HXK1-FLAG was bound to primary mouse anti-FLAG and then partially purified using magnetic beads coated with a secondary antibody. This isolation procedure avoided pelleting by centrifugation. After washing the beads that had bound proteins, FLAG peptide was used to release HXK1 by competitive binding interactions to the primary antibody. About 25% of bound HXK1 was typically released by this process and about 40 proteins were identified by mass spectroscopy as coeluting with HXK1 (data not shown). Among identified proteins were seven other mitochondrial proteins, including the two most abundant Arabidopsis porin isoforms (At5g515090 and At3g01280; CITATION). In mammals, mitochondrial porins are the docking proteins in the outer membrane for some HXKs (CITATION). We further examined the possible interaction of HXK1 with the two mitochondrial porins by testing with coimmunoprecipitation assays of transiently expressed proteins after labeling with 35S-Met (Fig. 4A ). Only when HXK1-FLAG was coexpressed with either porin or hemagglutinin (HA) clones was the anti-FLAG antibody also able to pull down porin proteins and the anti-HA antibody able to pull down HXK1-FLAG. As one pair of controls, anti-FLAG antibody did not capture porin-HA protein, and anti-HA antibodies were not able to capture HXK1-FLAG protein. These data demonstrate that both porins can interact with AtHXK1, apparently as docking proteins. As an additional control, we showed that HXK1 interactions with cellular proteins are not promiscuous in this assay because a cytosolic calcium-dependent protein kinase could not be coimmunoprecipitated (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] Among the coeluting proteins from the FLAG proteomic experiment, we also identified vegetative actins (ACT2 and ACT8). Notably, ACT2 and ACT8 proteins differ by only one amino acid. This was interesting because certain mammalian HXKs can bind to actin (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether the corresponding Arabidopsis proteins can interact, we carried out coimmunoprecipitation assays between HXK1-FLAG and ACT2-HA (Fig. 4B) and ACT8-HA (data not shown). In both cases, positive interaction was observed, with appropriate controls. Because we do not know that actin-HA was incorporated into actin filaments, these data do not discriminate whether HXK1 can bind to monomeric actin (G-actin) or to actin filaments (F-actin). However, when ACT2-GFP was expressed in leaf protoplasts, the fluorescent tag was present only in microfilaments (see below; Fig. 6B). Thus, these data suggest that HXK1 can physically interact with F-actin. To further clarify whether this interaction can occur in mesophyll cells, we examined the dual immunolocalization of HXK and ACT proteins following cryofixation and freeze substitution of seedling leaf tissue (Fig. 5 ). As is typical of mesophyll cells, F-actin was observed to form a network of filaments and bundles, including baskets around the chloroplasts and nucleus. However, many of the expected fine mesh filaments are not so readily seen with the epifluorescence microscope. We did observe that numerous fusiform HXK fluorescent structures are associated with or immediately adjacent to actin filaments. In many cases, these fusiform structures were seen along filaments that encircle the chloroplasts and nuclei (Fig. 5B). Thus, most of the visible foci for HXK fluorescence in the single optical sections were associated with F-actin. [[FIGURE]] Given our results that HXK1 and actin possibly interact both in vitro and in vivo, we examined whether this putative interaction might have functional significance. First, we tested known reagents that disrupt actin filaments for their possible effects on HXK1-dependent Glc signaling in transient expression assays, using Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (Fig. 6 ). In these assays, activities of two different HXK1 reporters were evaluated as a function of expressed luciferase (LUC) activity from promoter-LUC fusion constructs. Activities were normalized for small variances in transfection efficiency by assaying a control promoter construct, UBQ10-GUS. Notably, expression of the control promoter was not affected by cotransfected HXK1, by Glc addition, or by drug treatment (data not shown). In these assay conditions, cotransfection of HXK1 plus treatment with 2 mm Glc resulted in a 3-fold reduction in reporter activities (Fig. 6). Interestingly, the addition of latrunculin-B (LatB) did not affect expression of either promoter in the absence of HXK1 and Glc, but it did completely block effector-dependent repression of both reporter activities. To validate the influence of LatB, we also showed that its treatment extensively disrupted the finer actin filaments of leaf protoplasts from transgenic plants that express the cytoskeleton marker protein, GFP-hTalin (Fig. 6B). Substitution of cytochalasin D (CytoD) for LatB also blocked Glc signaling (data not shown) and even more extensively disrupted the F-actin (Fig. 6B). However, Glc signaling was not affected by treatment with 20 μm oryzalin to disrupt the organization of microtubules (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Recognizing that many stimuli are reported to affect F-actin structure (e.g. auxin, Ca, ABA; CITATION; CITATION), we used a GFP-hTalin reporter of F-actin to test both short- and long-term effects of Glc treatment on F-actin organization in seedlings. These seedlings had a normal phenotype when grown on agar plates with 0.5% Suc and had readily visualized actin filament structures. In hypocotyl cells, we observed a few prominent longitudinal fibers located toward the periphery of columnar-shaped cells, with a larger number of transverse and finer mesh filaments (Fig. 7A ). Transfer of GFP-hTalin seedlings from Suc plates to a solution of 1.8% (0.1 m) Glc resulted in the rapid loss of many transverse and fine mesh filaments, with increased bundling of the longitudinal F-actin cables (Fig. 7A). This response was specific to Glc and not mannitol. Additionally, seedling transfer instead to 0.18% (10 mm) Glc, but not mannitol, had the same effect on the cytoskeleton after longer treatment time of 10 to 12 h (data not shown). We also tested a transgenic line expressing GFP-Fimbrin ACTIN-BINDING DOMAIN2 (GFP-fABD2; CITATION), but in our hands the fine mesh filaments were not so readily visualized (see “Discussion”). [[FIGURE]] We next tested how Glc treatment might affect F-actin organization after long-term growth at elevated Glc levels. One well-established Glc bioassay is a developmental repression phenotype observed in wild-type seedlings grown on plates with 6% Glc (CITATION). In Glc-arrested seedlings, cell morphology was altered as shown by reduced length and increased width of hypocotyl cells (Fig. 7B). Also in these seedlings, the actin cytoskeleton had decreased numbers of fine transverse filaments, with increased numbers of shorter longitudinal fibers that appeared to lack directional organization. These also had increased diffuse fluorescence, perhaps due to some actin molecules not being incorporated into filaments. Staining of hypocotyls with MitoTracker Red indicated that mitochondria still remained associated with the altered actin filaments in repressed seedlings (data not shown). As long as the Glc-repressed seedlings were maintained in solutions of 6% Glc, the actin network underwent no visible structural changes. However, upon transfer of repressed GFP-hTalin seedlings to a solution of water or 0.5% Suc, we observed rapid reorganization of F-actin (Fig. 7B). This included an apparent polar aggregation of actin filaments, followed by formation of longitudinal cables. With additional treatment time, fine mesh filaments also form in transferred seedlings (observations). Growth of GFP-hTalin seedlings on 6% mannitol was normal, as was their F-actin structure before and after transfer to water (observations). These results collectively indicate that Glc treatments have profound and rapid effects on the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. The possible significance of these data to HXK1-dependent Glc signaling will be considered below.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L. Heynh.) ecotype Columbia-0 and ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center; gin2-1, and transgenic gin2-1, which express HXK1-FLAG, were as previously described (CITATION); seeds of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing hTalin-GFP were generously provided by Dr. Adrienne Hardham (Australian National University); seeds of Arabidopsis that express GFP-fABD2 were a gift from Dr. David McCurdy (University of Newcastle); and seeds of maize (Zea mays; Seed Genetics) and pea (Pisum sativum var. Little Marvel; Gurneys Seed and Nursery Co.) were purchased. Plants were chamber grown with a 12-h photoperiod at 125 μmol m−2 s−1 and a 23°C day/20°C night thermoperiod. Seeds were germinated and grown on agar plates after 2 d at 4°C as in CITATION. Greening maize seedlings (CITATION) were used as a source of protoplasts for protein expression and immunoprecipitation. Two Glc-responsive promoters driving firefly LUC, pea RBCS-LUC (CITATION), and Arabidopsis ASN1-LUC (Dr. Li Zhou; see also CITATION), and an internal control reporter, UBQ10-GUS, were cloned in the plant expression vector previously described (CITATION). ACT2 cDNA (At3g18780) was amplified from a previously described plasmid (CITATION) and subcloned as a C-terminal GFP fusion (CITATION) in the plant expression vector. Porin genes At3g01280 (por301) and At5g15090 (hsr2) were amplified from cDNA stocks U12693 and U18357 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center), respectively, using the following primers: por301, 5′-GGGATCCCATGGTGAAAGGTCCCGGT and 5′-GAAGGCCTAGGCTTGAGTGCGAGAGCCAATCC; and hsr2, 5′-GTCAAGGCCTGGGCTTGAGAGCGAGAGCAATC and 5′-GGGATCCATGGTTAAAGGTCCAGGACTCTACACT. These were subcloned as C-terminal GFP and double HA constructs in the expression vector. HXK1-HA and HXK1-FLAG were as described previously (CITATION) and HXK was subcloned as a C-terminal GFP fusion. HXK1ΔC (amino acids 1–27) was made by inserting a StuI site after amino acid 27 of HXK1-GFP, using Quick Change (Stratagene) and the following primers: 5′-GGTTGTTCGACGACGGAGGCCTATGCAGAGCTCAGGG and 5′-CCCTGAGCTCTGCATAGGCCTCCGTCGTCGAACAACC. HXK1ΔN (amino acids 28–496) was made by deletion using Quick Change (Stratagene) and the following primers: 5′-CCTTGCTCCGTGGATCCCGATGCAGAGCTCAGGGAAG and 5′-CTTCCCTGAGCTCTGCATCGGGATCCACGGAGCAAGG. HXK1-GFP was subcloned into the minibinary vector pCB302 (CITATION) with the bar selection marker and plants of Arabidopsis Ler were transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip (CITATION). Homozygous lines with a single insert were selected for characterization. All PCR-based cloning was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were isolated as described previously and transfected using polyethylene glycol (CITATION). Transfection efficiencies were >60%. Protoplasts were transfected with RBCS-LUC (4 μg) or ASN1-LUC (6 μg) ± HXK1-HA (6 μg) as an effector + UBQ10-GUS (2 μg) as an internal control, and empty vector to make equal concentrations of cDNA. Following transfection, protoplasts were incubated in the light at 35 mmol m−2 s−1, then treated with ±2 mm Glc after 90 min, and harvested after 6 to 8 h. The protoplast pellet was resuspended in lysis buffer and GUS and LUC activity was measured as previously (CITATION; CITATION). Promoter activity is expressed as LUC/GUS values and normalized to untreated controls. [35S]Met (25 μCi; Perkin-Elmer) was added to maize protoplasts 90 min after polyethylene glycol transfection. Protoplasts were harvested after 10 h and resuspended in 200 μL immunoprecipitation buffer (150 mm NaCl, 50 mm Tris chloride, pH 7.5, 5 mm EDTA, 1% [v/v] Triton X-100, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm NaF, 1 mm NaVO3, complete protease inhibitors [Roche Molecular Biochemicals], and 0.075% [v/v] SDS). Anti-HA (Roche) or anti-FLAGM2 (Sigma-Aldrich) antibodies were used with protein A agarose (Roche) for immunoprecipitation. Proteins were solubilized, electrophoresed on 10% SDS gels, and visualized by fluorography. Organelles from leaves of 10-d-old pea or 4-week-old Arabidopsis were isolated following low-speed blending. Mitochondria were isolated on Percoll gradients as described in CITATION. Chloroplasts (CITATION) and nuclei (CITATION) were isolated from the initial low-speed pellet. Fraction purities were initially monitored by fluorescence microscopy (see below). For western blots, organelle proteins were electrophoresed by SDS-PAGE, transferred to Immobilon-P (Millipore), and probed with antibodies: rabbit polyclonal anti-HXK1 (CITATION), polyclonal anti-RuBP carboxylase/oxygenase (Dr. Rowan Sage), mouse monoclonal anti-PDH (Dr. Jan Miernyk), polyclonal antihistone (CITATION), and polyclonal phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (Dr. Ray Chollet). Protoplasts and seedlings were monitored using an Axiovert 200 m fluorescence microscope with Apotome (Carl Zeiss) and band-pass filters (Chroma), with most reported images acquired using an LSM 510 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss). Mitochondria were visualized by staining with MitoTracker Red (Molecular Probes) and nuclei by staining with Hoechst 33342 (Molecular Probes). During organelle purification, fractions were routinely visualized for cross contamination, including also chlorophyll fluorescence for chloroplasts. For visualizing actin disruption in protoplasts, samples were treated 30 min with 2 μm LatB, 10 μm CytoD, or 20 μm oryzalin (Molecular Probes). To visualize actin disruption in vivo, transgenic plants that express GFP-hTalin were grown on agar plates with 0.5% Suc medium for 7 d, then transferred to deep well slides with either 1.8% (0.1 m) Glc, 1.8% mannitol, or 0.5% Suc. To visualize actin organization in Glc-repressed seedlings, transgenic plants of either GFP-hTalin or fABD2-GFP were grown on 6% Glc plates for 6 d. In one experiment, seedlings were then placed in water or 0.5% Suc to visualize F-actin reorganization. Immunolocalization of HXK1 and F-actin was done using methods previously described (CITATION; CITATION), following leaf cryofixation and acetone freeze substitution of young seedlings. Because anti-HXK1 is a polyclonal antibody and anti-ACT (MAbGPa) is a monoclonal antibody, we labeled cells with corresponding secondary antibodies conjugated to FITC. Double labeling of actin and HXK1 was done by incubating the cells in a mixture of anti-actin and anti-HXK1 primary antibodies for 12 h and the FITC-conjugated anti-mouse and Texas Red-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies for 4 h. DNA was stained with 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole (DAPI; Sigma-Aldrich) and 0.1 μg/mL phosphate-buffered saline. For control, mitochondria were labeled with anti-PDH monoclonal antibody. Cells were visualized with a fluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss) or a Leica scanning confocal microscope (TCS-SP2). Leaves of greenhouse-grown plants of line HXK1-FLAG29 were collected into liquid N2. About 0.35 g fresh weight were extracted using a mortar and pestle with 5 volumes of buffer (100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 10% glycerol, 5 mm MgCl2, 15 mm KCl, 1 mm EDTA, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 0.5% CHAPS, and 1× protease inhibitors [Roche]). Extracts were microfuged at 12,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant was kept on ice, whereas the pellet was reextracted with 0.5 mL of grinding buffer plus 0.31 m KCl by flopping for 30 min at 4°C. Following microfuging, both extracts were assayed for glucokinase activity (CITATION) and protein content (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Extracts were combined to give 1 to 1.2 mL with 12 to 15 units of activity at 0.15 m KCl, then incubated with 4 μg of anti-FLAG M2 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) for 60 min on a flopper at room temperature. Extracts were transferred to washed anti-mouse magnetic beads (MagnaBind Beads; Pierce) and flopped for 60 min at room temperature. Beads were separated and washed three times with buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 150 mm KCl, 10% glycerol), then incubated for 30 min at room temperature with FLAG peptide elution medium (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 150 mm KCl, 5% glycerol, 2% CHAPS, 125 μg/mL FLAG peptide). FLAG peptide (Massachusetts General Hospital Core Facility) was quantified by A274 (ε = 1,420 m−1 cm−1). The eluted fraction generally had 10% to 15% of initial glucokinase activity. Protein was concentrated for electrophoresis using the Pierce PAGE prep kit (catalog no. 26800). Protein samples were electrophoresed on 10% SDS-PAGE gels. Gels were stained using the Colloidal Blue staining kit (Invitrogen), then the gel lane was excised into four sections and submitted for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis (Harvard Microchemistry and Proteomics Analysis Facility). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_119057, NM_112764, NM_110994, and NM_121513. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Glc signaling activity of HXK1-GFP in protoplast transient expression assays.
