!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains more than 30 genes encoding SET-domain proteins that are thought to be epigenetic regulators of gene expression and chromatin structure. SET-domain proteins can be divided into subgroups, and members of the Polycomb group (PcG) and trithorax group (trxG) have been shown to be important regulators of development. Both in animals and plants some of these proteins are components of multimeric protein complexes. Here, we have analyzed the Arabidopsis trxG protein ASHR3 which has a SET domain and pre- and post-SET domains similar to that of Ash1 in Drosophila. In addition to the SET domain, a divergent PHD finger is found in the N-terminus of the ASHR3 protein. As expected from SET-domain proteins involved in transcriptional activation, ASHR3 (coupled to GFP) localizes to euchromatin. A yeast two-hybrid screening revealed that the ASHR3 protein interacts with the putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor ABORTED MICROSPORES (AMS), which is involved in anther and stamen development in Arabidopsis. Deletion mapping indicated that both the PHD finger and the SET domain mediate the interaction between the two proteins. Overexpression of ASHR3 led in general to growth arrest, and specifically to degenerated anthers and male sterility. Expression analyses demonstrated that ASHR3 like AMS is expressed in the anther and in stamen filaments. We therefore propose that AMS can target ASHR3 to chromatin and regulate genes involved in stamen development and function.
!~RES~! The ASHR3 protein shows sequence similarity to known HMTases from the ASH1 group of SET-domain proteins. The ASHR3 protein (Fig. 1a), encoded by At4g30860, has been classified as a member of the ASH1 subgroup of trxG SET-domain proteins based on sequence similarity of the SET domains and overall domain composition (Baumbusch et al. CITATION). To refine the classification of ASHR3, BLAST searches were performed against the GenBank nr database with the ASHR3 SET-domain sequence. Alignment of the most similar sequences representing functionally characterized proteins demonstrated sequence similarity between these proteins and ASHR3 not only in the catalytically important motifs of the SET domain, but also in the flanking AWS (Associated With SET) and post-SET domains (amino acids (aa) 287–463) (Fig. 1b). Like many other trxG proteins the ASHR3 protein also contains a putative PHD finger (aa 118–186, Fig. 1c). [[FIGURE]]  A prerequisite for a function in chromatin modulation is nuclear localization. To identify the subcellular localization of the ASHR3 protein (Fig. 2), we analyzed transgenic plants containing a DEX inducible ASHR3-GFP fusion construct (GVG::ASHR3-GFP). Root preparations from induced seedlings were inspected for subcellular GFP-expression pattern and counterstained in DAPI (that binds strongly to DNA). ASHR3-GFP was exclusively localized in the nucleus (Fig. 2a). The fusion protein was excluded from the nucleolus and the bright DAPI stained heterochromatin, but associated with the less stained euchromatin in interphase nuclei (Fig. 2a, c). Similarly, when full length ASHR3-EGFP was expressed in human HeLa cells, it showed an exclusively nuclear localization and exclusion from the nucleoli (Fig. 2b). In the nucleoplasm, the protein showed a combined granular and diffuse pattern. When comparing the EGFP signal with the TO-PRO-3 signal (a general nucleic acid stain), it is evident that ASHR3-EGFP is excluded from the perinuclear and perinucleolar regions, which are rich in heterochromatin. Together, these data suggest that ASHR3 is predominantly targeted to euchromatic chromatin. [[FIGURE]]  The homology with known lysine-specific HMTases and the nuclear localization led us to investigate whether the ASHR3 protein contained intrinsic HMTase activity in vitro. Residues 181–497 of ASHR3 or full-length ASHR3 were expressed as GST-fusion proteins in E. coli and incubated with recombinant histones in an in vitro HMTase assay, but no activity was detected (data not shown). The lack of activity could be due to requirements of other histone tail modifications or that nucleosomes, rather than free histones, were the preferred substrate of ASHR3. Therefore the activity was tested in the in vitro HMTase assay on core histones isolated from calf thymus and on mononucleosomes reconstituted from recombinant histones. Several different assay conditions and incubation times were also tested (see Materials and methods). While the GST-SUV39H1 protein included as a positive control as expected showed methyltransferase activity towards H3, the recombinant ASHR3 proteins showed no activity on these substrates even after four days exposure (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]]  To identify ASHR3-interacting proteins, a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) screen was performed using the full-length ASHR3 protein (aa 1–497) as a bait. Five independent ASHR3 interacting prey clones were isolated from diploid colonies able to grow on stringent (QDO) medium selective for protein-protein interactions. One clone encoded a carboxy-terminal part (residues 431–571) of ABORTED MICROSPORES (AMS, AGI code At2g16910) downstream of the annotated bHLH domain. The specificity of the interaction was tested by mating AH109[pGADT7-AMS] with Y187 cells containing either empty vector, pGBKT7-Lamin or pGBKT7-ASHR3. Only ASHR3-AMS diploid yeast cells could grow on QDO medium (Fig. 4a). The interaction was confirmed in a GST pull-down assay, which showed that bacterially expressed full-length GST-ASHR3, but not GST alone, was able to pull down, i.e. interact with, in vitro translated 35S radiolabelled full-length AMS (Fig. 4b). The C-terminal fragment of AMS picked up in the Y2H screen, was also efficiently pulled down by ASHR3 (data not shown), suggesting that the C-terminus is sufficient for AMS interaction with ASHR3. [[FIGURE]]  To identify the part of ASHR3 responsible for the interaction with AMS, eight partly overlapping deletion constructs of ASHR3 (Fig. 4c) were introduced into the yeast bait vector. These fragments were tested in the Y2H assay against the C-terminal fragment of AMS. Initally, ASHR3 was divided in two fragments (aa 1–187 and aa 181–497) which both interacted. These were further divided, and as shown in Fig. 4d, a fragment constituting the PHD finger (aa 115–187) and a fragment containing the SET domain (aa 327–443) without the AWS and post-SET domains, both tested positive in the assay. This deletion mapping suggests that AMS interacts with ASHR3 at two points: the PHD finger, and the SET domain. In the dilution series of diploid cells containing the different constructs, growth was seen for the PHD finger fragment at a 10−3 dilution and for the SET-domain at the 10−2 dilution (Fig. 4d), suggesting that the interaction between the PHD finger and AMS is stronger than AMS’s interaction with the SET domain.  AMS is exclusively expressed in anthers (Sorensen et al. CITATION) and it was therefore of interest to identify the expression pattern of ASHR3. As a first approach, we performed a real-time quantitative PCR analysis with ASHR3 specific primers using cDNA from different tissues (Fig. 5a). The highest transcript levels were found in flowers and buds. In all other tissues tested, however, only weak ASHR3 expression was detected (Fig. 5a). [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the spatial and temporal expression pattern of ASHR3 in more detail, four independent Arabidopsis lines carrying single copies of a construct (ASHR3::GUS) where the ASHR3 promoter was coupled to the GUS reporter gene, were examined. Except for weak GUS expression signal in the vasculature and around hydathodes of developing leaves (data not shown), no expression was found in the above-ground structures of transgenic plants. However, a closer inspection of early floral stages detected a temporally limited and moderate GUS signal in developing anthers (Fig. 5b). At stages corresponding to pre-meiosis and meiosis no signal was detected (Fig. 5b a, I–III; floral stages (FS) 8–9, anther stages (AS) 4–7; stages according to Smyth et al. (CITATION) and Sanders et al. (CITATION), respectively). At stages corresponding to early post-meiosis a weak signal could be detected in the anthers (Fig. 5b a, IV; FS 10, AS 8). The ASHR3::GUS signal persisted and increased in intensity during anther and microspore development (Fig. 5b a, V–VIII; FS 10–11, AS 9–11), but was no longer present in the latest stages of pollen development and at pollination (Fig. 5b a, IX–X; FS 12–13, AS 13). In anthers of different stages, ASHR3::GUS activity was predominantly limited to the tapetum layer (Fig 5b b–e). No expression was observed in the stamen filament (Fig. 5b c). ASHR3::GUS activity could also be found accumulating in developing microspores at binucleate and trinucleate stages (Fig. 5b d, e; FS 12, AS 11–12). This expression was, however, very weak compared to the prominent expression pattern in the tapetum. No expression was found in the surrounding endothecium and epidermis layers (Fig. 5b e; FS12, AS12). A GUS expression signal was also present in developing roots (Fig. 5b f–i); first in root tips of 2 days old seedlings (Fig. 5b f). Speckled GUS expression was found throughout the lower part of the root, in the root cap and lateral root cap, but could also be found in the epidermis and in non-epidermal tissue in the division and elongation zone (Fig. 5b f, g). A more specific GUS expression pattern in the root was found in cells lining lateral root formation (Fig. 5b h, i). This expression pattern was found as early as surrounding two cell-layer lateral roots (Fig. 5b h) and persisted to mark the site of lateral root initiation throughout their development (Fig. 5b i). To further elucidate the ASHR3 spatial and temporal expression pattern in situ hybridization with an ASHR3 riboprobe was performed. No ASHR3 expression was observed in the cells surrounding the vascular tissue, the pericycle, in the hypocotyl (Fig. 5c a) and the root (Fig. 5c b, c) of 1 week old seedlings. A pronounced expression pattern could, however, be found in pollen (Fig. 5c d, e; FS 11–12, AS 9–11) and tapetum (Fig. 5c e; FS 11, AS 11) early in anther development. As the tapetum cells degraded, the tapetum and pollen ASHR3 expression level also faded. In contrast to our GUS results, in situ ASHR3 expression was also observed in the stamen filaments (Fig. 5c f; FS 11, AS 11). No expression was observed in the embryo during the stages of embryonic development tested (from globular stage throughout bent cotyledon stage) (data not shown). To our knowledge no T-DNA insertion knock-out line or other mutant null-alleles disrupting normal ASHR3 function is publicly available at present. An alternative to studies of mutants is however studies of lines overexpressing a gene of interest. Therefore, the plants containing the inducible GVG::ASHR3-GFP overexpression construct were inspected for phenotypic effects after induction with DEX (Fig. 6). Transgenic plants showed strong expression of the ectopic ASHR3-GFP fusion transcript after DEX induction in addition to the endogenous ASHR3 transcript (Fig. 6c). Three independent GVG::ASHR3-GFP overexpression lines and wild type (wt) plants were grown on DEX-containing medium, and after transferring them to soil, 4 weeks old plants were sprayed with DEX every 48 h for 1 week. None of the seedlings from these lines showed any aberrant phenotype when grown on DEX-containing medium. In contrast, the shoots in all the ASHR3-GFP overexpressing adult plants showed a reduced growth phenotype and developed fewer new floral buds compared to wt (Fig. 6a, b). In DEX-sprayed wt plants, on average 17 (st. dev. = 1, n = 3) buds developed to flowers/siliques in 168 h, and the developing siliques and internodes between them elongated (Fig. 6a). In induced GVG::ASHR3-GFP plants, on average five (st. dev. = 1.7, n = 3) buds developed to flowers/siliques in 168 h. In the representative plant shown in Fig. 6b, fertilization had already taken place at the onset of spraying (0 h) in five of the flowers, as judged from their developmental stage. From these flowers, and to some extent flower 6, siliques developed, but the internodes between them did virtually not elongate, and no further development was seen after the second spraying. There was apparently no increase in number of bolting buds after 48 h (Fig. 6b). In contrast, ten buds without visible sepals at 48 h had developed into siliques after 168 h in the wt plant shown in Fig. 6a. [[FIGURE]]  The floral organs of DEX-sprayed buds were inspected in plants at 120 h. While induction of ASHR3 led to a general developmental arrest, a specific effect was seen on the GVG::ASHR3-GFP stamen filaments, as these showed a more severe defect in elongation and development compared to other organs in the flowers of overexpression lines (Fig. 6e, g). The length of filaments of the DEX-treated plants never reached the length of wt stage 12 flowers (Fig. 6d; FS 12). Furthermore, at stages corresponding to wt flower stages 13 and 14 the ASH3R-GFP anthers aborted development and degenerated, leading to complete male sterility (Fig. 6g). At these stages carpels and papillar cells appeared normal. The phenotypic changes observed in the stamens were never seen in DEX-sprayed wt plants (Fig. 6d, f), or other transgenic plants containing DEX-inducible constructs (data not shown).
!~MM~! The pPZP211-AHR3::GUS construct was made using Gateway cloning, where a 2054 bp PCR fragment of the upstream region of the ASHR3 gene (from +24 to −2030) was cloned in front of the promoter-less GUS reporter. PCR was run on genomic DNA with the Gateway primers 5′-attB1-GCTTCGTCGCCTACTTATACGG-3′ and 5′-attB2-ACGTTTTGTCTTTGTTGGGTAGGC-3′. The PCR fragment was recombined into pDONR201 and the resulting clone was recombined with vector pPZP211G-GAW1 (Butenko et al. CITATION) to give ASHR3::GUS. To generate the bait vector for Y2H screening the ASHR3 coding sequence (CDS) was PCR amplified from cDNA with the proofreading Pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) using the primers 5′-GGATCCGGATGTTAGATCTGGGAAACA and 5′-GGATCCCTAATCTTGCTGCGGTTTACG, with the BamHI restriction site underlined. The PCR product was inserted into the BamHI site of the bait vector pGBKT7 (Clontech). Eight ASHR3 fragments were amplified from cDNA using the following Gateway primers 1–54: attB1-GGATGTTAGATCTGGGAAACA + attB2CGGTGGAATCATTGGTAA, 55–114: attB1-GAGGAAGAGGTCAAGGACATTA + attB2-ACCAACAAGAAAAGGAAG, PHD (115–187): attB1-GTGCCAAGAAAATGGTT GATTG + attB2-AGCAGCCATTGGACACTT, 1–187: attB1-GGATGTTAGATCTG GGAAACA + attB2-AGCAGCCATTGGACACTT, 181–497: attB1-TTAAGTGTCCAATGGCTGC + attB2-AATCTTGCTGCGGTTTACG), 187–280: attB1-GCTCATGATAAACATTCT + attB2-ATTATCACGCTTTTTCTT, SET (327–443): attB1-ACAGACCATTCCGCAAAGAG + attB2-TCTGTAGTCATATGTAAG, C-term (461–497): attB1-CAAGGTTATCTTGGGACAAAGAG + attB2-CTAATCTTGCTGCGGTTTACG respectively, introduced into the pDONR/Zeo vector (Invitrogen), recombined into the vector pGBKT7-GW, and used in the Y2H deletion analysis. The ASHR3 cDNA, generated with the Gateway primers attB1-GGATGTTAGATCTGGGAAACA and attB2-AATCTTGCTGCGGTTTACG was introduced into the Gateway pDONR201 vector (Invitrogen) by recombination, creating the entry clone pDONR201-ASHR3-5UTR. This clone was recombined into the destination vectors pGEX-AB GAW and pTA7002GWsmGFP (Thorstensen et al. CITATION) to create the pGEX-ASHR3full GST-ASHR3 fusion construct for expression in E. coli and the GVG::ASHR3-GFP fusion construct for induction in Arabidopsis, respectively. The pGBKT7-AMSfull construct was created by recombination of the full-length AMS CDS, amplified with the primers 5′-attB1-TAATGGAGAGTAATATGCAAAA CTTG and 5′-attB2-CATCTTTATAGCTTTGGGGA, into pDONR/Zeo. This construct was then recombined into the Gateway destination vector pGBKT7-GW and used for in vitro translation in the GST pull-down assay. For transient transfection in HeLa cells, the ASHR3 CDS, covering residues 1–498, was first PCR amplified from cDNA using primers 5′-ggccatatggaattcTTAGATCTGGG AAACATG and 5′-ggccggggatccCTAATCTTGCTGCGGTTT and then cloned into the pEGFP-C3mycESBS. The EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites used for cloning are underlined. The vector backbone pEGFP-C3mycESBS was made by replacement of the polylinker of pEGFP-C3 (Clontech) with that of pGAD424 (Clontech) to generate pEGFP-C3ESBS. An oligonucleotide encoding the Human c-Myc epitope 9E10 (residues 410–419) was inserted in the EcoRI site of pEGFP-C3ESBS to generate pEGFP-C3mycESBS. The adaptor primers were Upper-myc (5′-AATTGGAGCAGAAACT GATCTCTGAAGAAGACCTGG) and Lower-myc (5′-AATTCCAGGTCTTCTT CAGAGATCAGTTTCTGCTCC), where the EcoRI compatible ends are underlined (note that only the 3′EcoRI site was regenerated). Arabidopsis plants were grown at long day conditions at 20°C. Transgenic plants were generated by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). Transgenic plants containing the glucocorticoid inducible GVG::ASHR3-GFP construct were selected on medium containing 15 μM hygromycin. Induction of GFP-fusion proteins using dexamethasone (DEX) was done as described in Aoyama and Chua (CITATION). Transgenic T2 plants were grown on agar plates containing 5 μM DEX for 1–2 weeks and then sprayed every 48 h with a solution containing 50 μM DEX and 0.01% (w/v) Tween-20. HeLa cells were cultured in IMDM (BIO Whittaker) media with 25 mM Hepes and L-Glutamine supplemented with 5% FCS (HyClone Laboratoriers) and 100 μg gentamicin (BIO Whittaker) in a 5% humidified atmosphere at 37°C. Cells were transfected by Fugene 6 (Roche) diluted in 100 μl medium without FCS, added the appropriate plasmid (0.5 μg DNA: 0.75 μl Fugene 6), incubated for 20 min at room temperature, and subsequently transferred to cover slips in 0.75 ml medium without FCS and incubated for 24 h. The Matchmaker library construction and screening kit (Clontech) was used. The cDNA library was created from Columbia wt flowers and buds and recombined into the pGADT7-Rec vector to create an AD-fusion library in the yeast strain AH109. Two-hybrid interactions were screened by mating of yeast strain Y187 carrying the full-length pGBKT7-ASHR3 bait construct with the AD fusion library at 30°C ON. Selective media for the nutritional reporter genes ADE2, HIS3 and MEL1 (QDO) containing 20 mg l−1 X-α-Gal, was used to identify positive two-hybrid interactions. Putative positive clones were control mated against empty vector (pGBKT7), a lamine control (pGBKT7-Lam) and the SET-domain protein SUVR4 (At3g04380) (pGBKT7-SUVR4) (Thorstensen et al. CITATION) to verify the interactions. Y187 cells transformed with pGBKT7-ASHR3 full-length and deletion constructs were tested for autoactivation of the ADE2, HIS3 and MEL1 reporter genes. Recombinant proteins for the histone methyltransferase assays and GST pull-down were expressed in BL21 cells and solubilized in modified RIPA buffer (20 mM Tris pH 7.7, 150 mM NaCl, 1% NP-40, Protease Cocktail EDTA free (Pierce), 0.25 mg ml−1 lysozyme). GST pull-down was done according to Katsani et al. (CITATION). The in vitro histone methyltransferase assay was essentially performed as described by Thorstensen et al. (CITATION) with 5–10 μg of matrix-bound GST-ASHR3 protein and 5 μg core histones from calf thymus (Roche) or reconstituted, recombinant mononucleosomes and C14-labelled S-Ado-Met for 1–3 h. In addition to the standard HMTase buffer an alternative buffer was also used (20 mM Tris pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 0.4 mM EDTA, and 2 mM β-mercaptoethanol). mRNA was extracted from different tissues (100 mg) as described in Berg et al. (CITATION). For Northern hybridization 1 μg of oligo dT-purified mRNA was loaded in each lane on a denaturizing agarose gel, blotted onto Hybond N+ membrane and hybridized with single-stranded antisense probes labeled with 32P dCTP using Rediprime II Labelling Kit (Amersham Biosciences). The following gene specific primers were used to generate the probes: 18SrDNA—5′-GCAAGTCGTGTGCCAGCAGCC and 5′-CTTCCGTCAA TTCCTTTAAG; ASHR3—5′-GCTCTCACTTGTTGCCCTTC and 5′-ATGCCTC CAACAAACTGCTC. For in situ hybridization a 599 bp ASHR3 product amplified from cDNA using the gene specific primers 5′-ATGCCTCCAACAAACTGCTC- and 5′-GCTCTCACTTGTTGCCCTTC-3′, was cloned into pGEM®T vector (Promega, Madison, WI), and the T7 and SP6 polymerases (Promega) were used to synthesize the antisense and sense UTP-digoxigenin-labeled (Roche) RNA, respectively, as described (Jackson et al. CITATION). Plant fixation and in situ hybridization were performed according to Jackson (CITATION). Total RNA for Realtime PCR was isolated from different tissues from a pool of 12 plants using RNeasy Plant Minikit (QUIAGEN) and DNase treated according to the manufacturer’s protocol. 4 μg of RNA was reverse transcribed using SuperscriptIII (Invitrogen) and RNase H treated according to the protocol. A 1:3 dilution of the cDNA was used for Realtime PCR performed on a LightCycler LC480 instrument (ROCHE) with LightCycler 480 SYBR Green I Master Kit (ROCHE) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. For ASHR3 primers were 5′-CGACATGTTTCCTTCCTTTTCT and 5′-CGGCTTATGGCAAACAAGAC. Primers for the ACTIN2 (At3g18780) reference were 5-CGCTCTTTCTTTCCAAGCTC and 5′-CCGGTACCATTGTCACACAC. Melting point analyses were performed for both primer pairs to guarantee the absence of multiple peaks and primer dimers. The PCR efficiency was determined independently for all tissues and primer combinations using 1:1 dilution series. The experiment was performed in four technical replicates and relative expression ratios and standard deviations were calculated according to Pfaffl (CITATION) using an Excel Spreadsheet. Light microscopy was performed using a Zeiss Axioplan Imaging2 microscope system equipped with Nomarski optics, epifluorescence attachment and cooled LCD imaging facilities. Histochemical GUS assays were performed according to Grini et al. (CITATION). For investigation of subcellular localization of ASHR3-GFP, roots from induced seedlings were chopped, covered with cover slips, and squashed. All preparations were counterstained in a 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) solution (2.5 μg/ml) in 50 mM PBS and inspected with a Zeiss Axioplan Imaging2 microscope system. DAPI fluorescence was exited using a 365/12 nm band pass filter and emission recorded using a 397 nm long pass filter. GFP was exited using a 450–490 nm band pass filter and emission was collected with a 515–565 band pass filter. Transfected HeLa cells were washed in PBS and fixed in freshly prepared 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS, washed in PBS and rinsed quickly with water. Finally the cells were mounted in 5 μl Slowfade (Molecular Probes), added 1 μl 10 μM TO-PRO-3 (Molecular Probes) diluted in PBS on glass slides and examined by confocal laser microscopy using a Leica TCS SP. GFP was excited at 488 nm and emission was collected between 500 nm and 550 nm, while TO-PRO3 was excited at 568 nm emission was collected between 620 nm and 700 nm. Images were assembled using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator software. The ASHR3 (At4g30860) mRNA sequence is registered in Genbank with accession number AY050894. Database searches, alignments, identification of domain and motifs were performed using tools as described in Thorstensen et al. (CITATION).
