!~ABS~! ANGUSTIFOLIA (AN) controls leaf morphology in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Previous studies on sequence similarity demonstrated that the closest proteins to AN are members of animal C-terminal-binding proteins (CtBPs) found in nematodes, arthropods, and vertebrates. Drosophila CtBP (dCtBP) functions as a transcriptional corepressor for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-binding repressors containing the short amino acid motif, PXDLS, to regulate tissue specification and segmentation during early embryogenesis. It has previously been shown that AN was thought to repress transcription similar to the function of CtBPs; however, AN lacks some of the structural features that are conserved in animal CtBPs. In this paper, we examined whether AN is functionally related to dCtBP. Firstly, we re-examined sequence similarity among AN and various CtBPs from several representative species in the plant and animal kingdoms. Secondly, yeast two-hybrid assays demonstrated that AN failed to interact with an authentic CtBP-interacting factor, adenovirus E1A oncoprotein bearing the PXDLS motif. Thirdly, AN tethered to DNA was unable to repress the expression of reporter genes in transgenic Drosophila embryos. Fourthly, overexpression assays suggested that dCtBP and AN function differently in Drosophila tissues. Finally, AN failed to rescue the zygotic lethality caused by dCtBP loss-of-function. These data, taken together, suggest that AN is functionally distinct from dCtBP. Likely, ancestral CtBPs acquired corepressor function (capability of both repression and binding to repressors containing the PXDLS motif) after the animal–plant divergence but before the protostome–deuterostome split. We therefore propose to categorize AN as a subfamily member within the CtBP/BARS/RIBEYE/AN superfamily.
!~RES~! As shown in Fig. 1, we re-examined the sequence similarity among AN and various CtBP or CtBP-like proteins from several representative species comprising the plant and animal kingdoms in the public database. [[FIGURE]]  Our Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) search against the protein database of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae revealed that YNL274C (a NADPH-dependent glyoxylate reductase) is most similar to dCtBP, although it lacks the PXDLS- and RRT-binding motifs (Rintala et al. CITATION). So far, worms appear to be the simplest animal that contains CtBP. Worms, flies, sea urchins, and ascidians contain only one CtBP gene, whereas all vertebrates, including humans, mice, frogs, and zebrafish, contain two copies of the CtBP gene, CtBP1 and CtBP2. Hence, the CtBP gene was duplicated after the split of urochordates and vertebrates (Fig. 6). Although two zebrafish CtBP genes, CtBP1 and CtBP2, have been previously reported (Muraoka et al. CITATION), our BLAST search revealed an additional CtBP gene (Fig. 1). A predicted coding sequence of this gene encoding a hypothetical protein LOC678649 is most similar to mCtBP1 sharing 92% identical aa (referred here as “zCtBP1”). A predicted coding sequence of a second gene, previously identified as CtBP2, contains the NLS at the N terminus similar to mCtBP2 sharing 89% identical aa (referred here as “zCtBP2”). Finally, a third gene, previously known as CtBP1, encodes the CtBP2-specific N terminus containing the NLS, and this protein shares 76% identical aa residues with mCtBP2 (referred here as “zCtBP2-like”). It is interesting to note that Danio rerio genome view at the National Center for Biotechnology Information displays that zCtBP2-like and zCtBP1 are separated by 14 open reading frames on chromosome 14 and that zCtBP2 is located on chromosome 17. These three zCtBPs seem to be equally divergent, as zCtBP1 vs zCtBP2, zCtBP1 vs zCtBP2-like, and zCtBP2 vs zCtBP2-like share 78, 80, and 77% identical aa residues, respectively. Because mouse and human CtBP1 and CtBP2 genes map to different chromosomes (Katsanis and Fisher CITATION), the zebrafish genome might display a trace of the first duplication event between CtBP1 and CtBP2 genes. zCtBP1 and zCtBP2-like might be initially duplicated on the same chromosome, and then the zCtBP2-like gene might have undergone an additional duplication/translocation between chromosome 14 and 17. Alternatively, it is also possible that zCtBP2 and zCtBP2-like were initially duplicated and then zCtBP2-like was duplicated as zCtBP1. Most likely, zCtBP2 was remained as “CtBP2” for further evolution, as the zCtBP2 locus has a N-terminal alternative splicing form encoding Ribeye (Ribeye a), like the mammalian CtBP2 locus (Wan et al. CITATION). Zebrafish Ribeye a has a similar domain structure, but it has an alternatively spliced C terminus, unlike the mammalian Ribeye. Zebrafish carries an additional ribeye gene (ribeye b) on chromosome 12 but lacks an alternative exon of the N terminus of CtBP2. Worm (Ce) and sea urchin (Sp) apparently carry a single CtBP gene with the two splicing forms. As shown in Figs. S1, S2, and S3, the longer forms contain a putative zinc-binding domain at the N terminus (Thanatos-associated protein domain) that may bind to DNA (referred as “Ce-CtBP-L” and “Sp-CtBP-L”), whereas the shorter forms lack it (referred as “Ce-CtBP-S” and “Sp-CtBP-S”; Liew et al. CITATION; Poortinga et al. CITATION; Turner and Crossley CITATION). However, the fruit fly, which is evolutionarily positioned in between these two animals, obviously does not have this domain, suggesting that the dCtBP locus lost it. Taken all together, all examined CtBP family members share architectural similarities: the NAD(H)-binding motif and the residues necessary to contact the PXDLS peptide motifs (corresponding to A58 and V72 in mCtBP2; Fig. 1; Kumar et al. CITATION; Nardini et al. CITATION; Quinlan et al. CITATION). The three residues essential for dehydrogenase catalysis (catalytic triad) are conserved in all CtBPs, but Ce-CtBP-S lacks two of them (Kumar et al. CITATION). All of the aforementioned CtBP signatures, however, are not found in AN or IAN. One of the two aa’s critical to contact the RRT sequence (corresponding to D237 in mCtBP2) is conserved in all CtBPs and in the AN members (Quinlan et al. CITATION). The other aa (corresponding to E181 in mCtBP2) is substituted by an equivalent aa (D) in insects and ascidians but is not conserved in Ce-CtBP-S, AN, or IAN. A separate CLUSTALW analysis displays that dCtBP 476 aa and AN share 26.6% identical residues. Thus, AN and IAN superficially resemble animal CtBPs, but more detailed comparisons between AN and CtBPs demonstrate that these two molecules differ drastically. Fundamentally, all known plant AN proteins share the same features, suggesting a unique function has evolved within the AN family. In the following examinations, we compared the function of AN with dCtBP in detail, from protein–protein interaction ability in vitro to in vivo functional assay. dCtBP physically interacts with Krüppel, Knirps, and Snail through the PXDLS motif (Fig. S4; Keller et al. CITATION; Nibu et al. CITATION, CITATION). Using yeast two-hybrid assays, we then tested whether AN interacts with the adenovirus E1A oncoprotein containing the PXDLS motif that is recognized by hCtBP1 (Fig. 2). AN fused to the activation domain (AD-AN) represented a positive interaction with AN fused to the DNA-binding domain (DB-AN) in yeast, as previously observed (Kim et al. CITATION). However, E1A fused to the DNA-binding domain (DB-E1A) failed to interact with AD-AN (Fig. 2), consistent with the fact that AN lacks an aa residue critical for binding to the PXDLS motif (Fig. 1). These results reflect two different properties between the AN and CtBPs: (1) AN forms homodimers, similar to CtBP, but unlike CtBPs, AN does not require NADH binding to form homodimers (Balasubramanian et al. CITATION; Kumar et al. CITATION; Nardini et al. CITATION; Thio et al. CITATION), as the NADH-binding site is not conserved in the AN primary sequence (Fig. 1), and (2) AN does not interact with the protein containing the PXDLS motif. [[FIGURE]]  The repression activity of mammalian and Drosophila CtBPs has been tested by fusing them to DNA-binding domains. Such CtBP fusion proteins are capable of inhibiting expression of reporter constructs that contain binding sites for the DNA-binding domains in tissue culture and transgenic Drosophila embryos (Grooteclaes et al. CITATION; Phippen et al. CITATION; Quinlan et al. CITATION, CITATION; Ryu and Arnosti CITATION; Sutrias-Grau and Arnosti CITATION; Thio et al. CITATION). We have also shown that a similar chimeric dCtBP fused to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain can act independently of DNA-bound repressors to mediate repression in transgenic embryos (Nibu et al. CITATION, CITATION). For example, as shown in Fig. 3, the expression of lacZ from the NEE.UAS-lacZ transgene in the ventral mesoderm region of transgenic embryos is reduced in the central regions where Gal4-dCtBP 383aa is expressed (Fig. 3a to c; Nibu et al. CITATION). Moreover, this repression appears to function over a limited range, as the modified NEE enhancer containing the UAS sites is repressed while the distant twist enhancer is fully active (Fig. 3d). This result is in agreement with a previous study carried out using a different reporter gene, containing two enhancers (Sutrias-Grau and Arnosti CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Next, to test whether AN is capable of repression, we extended a similar experiment to AN. Gal4-AN, AN fused in frame to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain, failed to alter lacZ expression of reporter genes (Fig. 3e to h). These results indicate that AN is unable to mediate repression in the fly embryo, despite the fact that AN genetically suppresses expression of a few genes in plantlets (Kim et al. CITATION).  dCtBP under the control of UAS sites (UAST-dCtBP 383aa) was overexpressed in eyes, wings, or dorsal thorax of Drosophila using transgenic fly strains carrying the different tissue-specific Gal4 activators (Brand and Perrimon CITATION). When overexpressed in the eyes, dCtBP induces extra bristles (Fig. 4b). In addition to these effects, overexpression of dCtBP results in ectopic wing veins, suggesting that dCtBP is involved in cell fate decisions between intervein and vein cells during wing development (Fig. 4d to g). In almost all of these cases, the extra veins appear to originate from the node marked by the extant posterior cross-vein and the L4 vein of the wing. Overexpression of dCtBP in wing imaginal disk (precursor to the dorsal thorax) causes loss of large sensory bristles (macrochaetes) as well as occasional malformation of cuticles and thus affects the patterning of the adult peripheral nervous system (PNS; Fig. 4i and k). [[FIGURE]]  Next, the effect of AN overexpression was assayed in Drosophila tissues. In eyes or wings, overexpressed AN failed to induce any defects (Fig. 4a). It is interesting to note that overexpression of AN in the dorsal thorax by the early Gal4 driver, ap-Gal4, also induced loss of large sensory bristles (Fig. 4j) with a penetrance similar to that seen in the case of dCtBP overexpression (Fig. 4m). However, when AN was overexpressed using the proneural-specific sca-Gal4 driver, the socket structures were present whenever the bristles were lost (Fig. 4l). This phenotype is clearly different from that caused by dCtBP overexpression using the same Gal4 driver (Fig. 4k). These results suggest that despite the similarities in the phenotypes seen in PNS development, AN plays a distinct role than dCtBP. Finally, we carried out genetic rescue assays to test whether AN can functionally substitute for dCtBP in flies. Such an ability would indicate that AN is functionally homologous to dCtBP. We previously used the P-element-induced dCtBP 03463 mutant allele to analyze the function of dCtBP (Nibu et al. CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). For the rescue assays in the present study, we used the dCtBP 87De-10 mutant allele (a null or a stronger hypomorphic allele), which fails to complement the dCtBP 03463 mutant allele (Barolo et al. CITATION; Poortinga et al. CITATION). As shown in Fig. 5a, the eve expression pattern in the germ-line clones derived from dCtBP 03463 is severely altered (Nibu et al. CITATION; Poortinga et al. CITATION). Similar altered eve expression was observed in embryos derived from dCtBP 87De-10 germ-line clones (Fig. 5b), further supporting the evidence that the dCtBP 87De-10 allele represents a loss-of-function allele. [[FIGURE]]  First, we tested whether zygotic lethality associated with the dCtBP 87De-10 allele is due to the loss of the dCtBP gene by introducing the ubc-Myc-dCtBP transgene into dCtBP homozygous mutants. One and two copies of the ubc-Myc-dCtBP transgene in a wild-type background did not induce any phenotype (compared to the overexpression of dCtBP, shown in Fig. 4). In the progeny of the final cross that indicated in Fig. 5c, we found 131 adult flies that are homozygous for the dCtBP mutation and carry ubc-Myc-dCtBP, out of a total of 876 flies (Fig. 5d), suggesting that the exogenous Myc-dCtBP provided by the transgene partially rescued the zygotic lethality. This genetic complementation thus demonstrates the gene specificity of this lethal phenotype. About 65% of the rescued flies (66 flies out of total 101 flies counted) showed the extra bristle phenotype (Fig. 5g) otherwise normal. A similar extra bristle phenotype was also observed in flies heterozygous for dCtBP 03463 mutant allele, but the penetrance is much lower; that is, only 2.7% of the heterozygotes (4 out of 137 flies) display the phenotype (Fig. 5f). Thus, the expression of transgenic dCtBP might not be high enough to compensate for the reduced levels of the endogenous dCtBP protein. We next tested whether AN function is evolutionarily conserved using a similar genetic rescue scheme. Myc-AN was expressed in flies homozygous for the dCtBP mutation using one copy of the ubc-Myc-AN transgene. Myc-AN expressed comparable levels of the Myc-dCtBP transgene used above (Fig. 5e). In contrast to the rescue with Myc-dCtBP, Myc-AN completely failed to rescue the zygotic lethality in dCtBP mutants (Fig. 5d), indicating that AN is not able to compensate for a lack of dCtBP gene function. Therefore, this result is consistent with our data that AN may not function as a corepressor for DNA-binding repressors containing the PXDLS motif; that is, AN lacks both the binding activity to the PXDLS motif (Fig. 2) and the repression activity in Drosophila cells (Fig. 3). In conclusion, these results obtained in the present study clearly suggest that Arabidopsis AN and dCtBP are structurally related yet are functionally distinct. Their high sequence similarity suggests that CtBPs and AN were probably evolved divergently from an ancestral NAD(H)-dependent d-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase. In this sense, plant AN likely lost both the dehydrogenase activity and the NAD(H)-binding motif, and nematodes CtBP also lost the dehydrogenase activity but retained the NAD(H)-binding motif (Fig. 6). The corepressor function (repression activity and capability to interact with proteins containing the PXDLS and RRT motifs) was then likely acquired by animal CtBPs after the animal–plant divergence and possibly before the protostome–deuterostome split (Fig. 6). Alternatively, the corepressor function, particularly the ability to interact with the PXDLS motif, may have been lost in an ancestral AN during plant evolution. It has been shown that several genes are upregulated in an mutant leaves (Kim et al. CITATION), but our repression assays revealed that AN did not inhibit transcription in the Drosophila embryo (Fig. 3). We note that it is still unclear whether AN is a bona fide transcriptional corepressor in plants and how it may function. At least, we could exclude the possibility that AN inhibits transcription, for example, by binding to another factor such as the retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor, as AN does not bind to Rb in yeast two-hybrid assays (Fig. S5). Further analyses will be required to clarify this issue. Considering the difference in the molecular function, we further support the idea that AN should be categorized as a subfamily member within the CtBP/BARS/RIBEYE/AN superfamily. Namely, members of this superfamily have been functionally diverged in the course of multicellular organisms, thereby resulting in CtBP, BARS, RIBEYE, and AN. Further functional analyses of AN will lead us to understand how this unique gene family has evolved in plants. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! All the steps of yeast two-hybrid analysis using the Y190 strain of S. cerevisiae and constructions of DB-AN (AN complementary DNA [cDNA] containing the entire coding region fused to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain in the pAS2-1 vector, Clontech Japan, Tokyo, Japan) and AD-AN (AN full-length fused to the activation domain in the pACT2 vector) were described previously (Kim et al. CITATION). pAS2-1/E1ACter was constructed by inserting the C-terminal region of E1A (E1ACter: kind gift from Dr. R. H. Goodman) into the pAS2-1 vector at the NdeI/BamHI site. The E1ACter was cloned by polymerase chain reaction with primers (5′E1ACter-NdeI; 5′-CTTTGACTCATATGTCTAGAGAATGCAATAGTAGTACGG-3′ and 3′E1ACter-BamHI; 5′-GACGGATCCTTATGGCCTGGGGCGTTTAC-3′). Transgenic strains were obtained by injecting yw embryos with various P-element transformation vectors as previously described (Nibu et al. CITATION). For each transgenic construct, at least three independent transgenic lines were tested, except for genetic rescue assays, and similar results were observed. All the genetic crosses were carried out at 25°C. Embryos for in situ hybridization aged 2–4 h were collected from adult flies carrying different transgenes or producing germ-line clones and then fixed and hybridized with digoxigenin-labeled antisense lacZ, dCtBP, AN, or even-skipped (eve) ribonucleic acid probe as previously described (Nibu et al. CITATION). Transgenic strains carrying reporter genes, NEE.UAS-lacZ and NEE.UAS-twi-lacZ were described previously (Nibu et al. CITATION). Both the dCtBP (containing the entire coding region of 383 aa) and AN cDNAs were fused in frame with the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (1–93 aa) under the control of the Krüppel enhancer as previously described (Nibu et al. CITATION). Females bearing reporter genes were crossed into Gal4-dCtBP or Gal4-AN males. The dCtBP (383aa) or entire AN coding sequence was inserted into the pUAST vector (UAST-dCtBP or UAST-AN), and transgenic strains were established. The UAST-dCtBP or UAST-AN strains were crossed into numerous Gal4-expressing lines described in Fig. 4a, and then adult phenotypes were observed under a dissecting scope.  dCtBP germ-line clones were generated as previously described (Nibu et al. CITATION, CITATION). Two fly strains carrying dCtBP alleles were used: FRT82B, dCtBP 03463 /TM3, Sb, and yw; FRT82B, dCtBP 87De-10 /TM3, Sb. Embryos were collected for 24 h, aged another 48 h, heat-shocked 3 successive days at 37°C for 3 h, and then grown to adults. Non-Sb females were mated with males to generate germ-line clones. A 1.2-kb Asp718-AscI fragment containing the wild-type dCtBP gene encoding 383 aa flanked by the SV40 3′ untranslated region was fused in frame to a Myc-tag at the N terminus and placed under the control of the ubiquitin promoter (ubc-Myc-dCtBP) in the pWUM vector (Heck et al. CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION). The P-element plasmid containing the Myc-tagged dCtBP gene under control of an ubiquitin promoter (ubc-Myc-dCtBP) was constructed, and a transgenic fly strain carrying ubc-Myc-dCtBP on the second chromosome was established. The presence of the ubc-Myc-dCtBP transgene marked with the white gene was confirmed by observing the eye color of the flies. A single transgenic male (yw/Y; ubc-Myc-dCtBP/CyO; Pr, Dr/TM3, Sb) was crossed into females heterozygous for the dCtBP mutant allele (yw; +/+; FRT82B, dCtBP 87De-10 /TM3, Sb). The male flies obtained (yw/Y; ubc-Myc-dCtBP/+; FRT82B, dCtBP 87De-10 /TM3, Sb) were then back-crossed to females heterozygous for the dCtBP mutant allele (yw; +/+; FRT82B, dCtBP 87De-10 /TM3, Sb). The progeny was scored according to genetic markers (eye color and Sb, which causes short and thick bristles on adult thorax). To control for reproducibility, two independent sets of rescue assays, both using the same ubc-Myc-dCtBP transgenic line, were carried out. Similar results were observed in all cases. Likewise, the entire AN cDNA fused in frame to Myc-tag at the N terminus was placed under the control of the ubiquitin promoter of the pWUM vector (ubc-Myc-AN). A transgenic fly strain carrying ubc-Myc-AN on the second chromosome was chosen for these assays, based on the equivalent expression levels of Myc-AN and Myc-dCtBP in Western blotting. To test for reproducibility, two independent sets of assays were conducted for each transgenic line. Ten flies carrying one copy of either ubc-Myc-dCtBP or ubc-Myc-AN were collected, disrupted by sonication in 100 μl of the 2× sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) sample-loading buffer, and heated at 100°C for 5 min. After centrifugation, the supernatant was recovered, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was measured using the Coomassie Plus Kit (Pierce). Approximately 5.5 μg of the extracted proteins were resolved by 10% SDS polyacrylamide gels, and transferred to Immobilon-P polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Millipore). To detect the Myc-tagged proteins, monoclonal anti-Myc tag antibody (clone 4A6; 1:500 dilution; Upstate) as a primary antibody and peroxidase-conjugated anti-Mouse IgG (1:1,000 dilution; Jackson ImmunoResearch) as a secondary antibody were used. Chemiluminescent signals were visualized using SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Pierce) and X-ray films (Kodak).
