!~ABS~! The role of plant mitochondrial outer membrane proteins in the process of preprotein import was investigated, as some of the principal components characterized in yeast have been shown to be absent or evolutionarily distinct in plants. Three outer membrane proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana mitochondria were studied: TOM20 (translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane), METAXIN, and mtOM64 (outer mitochondrial membrane protein of 64 kD). A single functional Arabidopsis TOM20 gene is sufficient to produce a normal multisubunit translocase of the outer membrane complex. Simultaneous inactivation of two of the three TOM20 genes changed the rate of import for some precursor proteins, revealing limited isoform subfunctionalization. Inactivation of all three TOM20 genes resulted in severely reduced rates of import for some but not all precursor proteins. The outer membrane protein METAXIN was characterized to play a role in the import of mitochondrial precursor proteins and likely plays a role in the assembly of β-barrel proteins into the outer membrane. An outer mitochondrial membrane protein of 64 kD (mtOM64) with high sequence similarity to a chloroplast import receptor was shown to interact with a variety of precursor proteins. All three proteins have domains exposed to the cytosol and interacted with a variety of precursor proteins, as determined by pull-down and yeast two-hybrid interaction assays. Furthermore, inactivation of one resulted in protein abundance changes in the others, suggesting functional redundancy. Thus, it is proposed that all three components directly interact with precursor proteins to participate in early stages of mitochondrial protein import.
!~RES~! TOM20 is encoded by four paralogous genes in the Arabidopsis genome, TOM20-1 to TOM20-4 (CITATION). TOM20-1 and TOM20-3 are tandemly duplicated genes, the predicted proteins of which display 60% amino acid identity. TOM20-2, TOM20-3, and TOM20-4 are highly expressed in diverse plant organs (CITATION), whereas by contrast, TOM20-1 transcript is rarely detectable (see Supplemental Figure 1A online) (CITATION; CITATION), and TOM20-1 is the only TOM20 protein that has not been directly identified in isolated plant mitochondria (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Antibodies raised against TOM20-3 cross-react with in vitro–translated TOM20-1 (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), but TOM20-1 could not be detected with this antibody in mitochondria isolated from whole seedlings of any of the Arabidopsis genotypes used in this study. Mitochondria were isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia-0) and two independent T-DNA insertion lines of each highly expressed TOM20 gene (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and the absence of transcript derived from the specific TOM20 isoforms was verified by RT-PCR (data not shown) and immunodetection of total mitochondrial protein samples with specific antibodies raised to each of these TOM20 isoforms (Figure 1A ). No severe phenotypic abnormalities were observed in any of the single insertion mutants; however, tom20-2 had a slightly delayed flowering time, 4 to 7 d later than wild-type plants (Figure 2A ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In vitro import of radiolabeled plant mitochondrial precursor proteins into mitochondria isolated from wild-type and tom20 plants was performed. While the selection of precursor proteins represented a wide range of mitochondrial protein import pathways (general import pathway, alternative oxidase [AOX] and the 10-kD protein of the small mitochondrial ribosomal subunit [RPS10]; carrier import pathway, mitochondrial phosphate carrier [PiC]; dual-targeted proteins, glutathione reductase [GR]; plant specific protein, FAd-subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase) (CITATION; CITATION), no significant differences in the rate of protein import were observed between wild-type and tom20 mitochondria for any precursor protein (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Therefore, none of the Tom20 proteins alone appeared to have an essential function in mitochondrial protein import. The single TOM20 isoform mutant plants were crossed to generate double TOM20 knockout plants deficient in each combination of the three highly expressed TOM20 isoforms. Notably, the resulting double knockout plants were viable and did not display severe phenotypic abnormalities, although again slight delays in flowering time were noticeable (Figure 2A). Mitochondria were isolated from wild-type and double tom20 knockout plants and the protein complexes solubilized by digitonin treatment and separated by one-dimensional blue native PAGE (BN-PAGE), followed by immunodetection of the remaining TOM20 protein (Figure 1B). TOM20-3 in both wild-type mitochondria and the tom20-2 tom20-4 mitochondria was detected in a protein complex of a similar apparent molecular mass, indicating that the loss of two TOM20 isoforms did not disrupt the integrity or structure of the TOM complex. This was also observed for TOM20-4 in wild-type and tom20-2 tom20-3 mitochondria. Residual Coomassie blue staining of the mitochondrial inner membrane respiratory complexes I, III, IV, and V enabled estimation of the TOM complex molecular mass at ∼230 kD, based on a comparison with a previous study of potato (Solanum tuberosum) mitochondrial membrane protein complexes (CITATION). Interestingly, a second complex containing TOM20-2 was always detected in wild-type mitochondria (Figure 1B, open arrowhead), indicating that some TOM20-2 is located in a higher molecular weight complex. Furthermore, in mitochondria isolated from tom20-3 tom20-4 plants, a larger proportion of TOM20-2 was present at a higher molecular weight, abolishing the two discrete complexes and forming a continuous distribution of larger complexes. Thus, when mitochondria only contain TOM20-2 it appears to lead to an ectopic size distribution of TOM complexes. The rate of protein import into mitochondria with only one functional TOM20 protein was measured in vitro for a range of plant mitochondrial precursor proteins (Figure 2B). The import of TOM40 and PiC was unaffected; however, for the other precursor proteins, significant differences in the rate of protein import in various mutants were observed (P < 0.05). AOX import into tom20-2 tom20-3 and tom20-2 tom20-4 mitochondria was reduced to 71 and 64%, respectively, compared with AOX import into wild-type mitochondria. FAd was imported into tom20-2 tom20-4 mitochondria at 85% of the wild-type rate of import. Finally, the import of the dual-targeted protein GR into tom20-2 tom20-3 mitochondria was 31% higher after 10 min and 71% higher after 20 min, at which the rate was still linear. Therefore, generation of mutant plants with only one functional TOM20 protein revealed that a functional TOM complex can be formed with a single TOM20 and that different TOM20 isoforms display some precursor recognition specificity that is evident when import of a variety of precursor proteins is assessed. Plants were generated that lacked all the three highly expressed TOM20 isoforms, tom20-2 tom20-3 tom20-4 (tom20 triple knockout). These plants were viable but displayed a slightly slower growth rate (Figure 2A). In vitro import of radiolabeled precursor proteins into mitochondria isolated from tom20 triple knockout plants indicated that TOM20 is involved in the import of a diverse range of mitochondrial precursor proteins (Figure 2C). Import of AOX, TOM40, and PiC was reduced to only 20 to 30% of the amount of import into wild-type mitochondria (P < 0.01), indicating that TOM20 is involved in the general, carrier, and outer membrane β-barrel protein import pathways. However, the import of GR was unaffected, and import of FAd did not decrease significantly (P > 0.05), indicating that TOM20 has little or no involvement in the import of these precursor proteins or that its absence can be compensated for completely by another import component. mtOM64 is a protein anchored in the mitochondrial outer membrane that has 67% protein sequence identity to At TOC64-III, a chloroplast outer envelope protein import receptor (CITATION; CITATION). Sequence analysis indicated that mtOM64 has three C-terminal tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs, resembling the C-terminal TPR domains of At TOC64-III and TOM70 that function to recognize chloroplast and mitochondrial proteins bound to HSP90 (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate the role of mtOM64, two Arabidopsis lines with independent T-DNA insertions in the coding region of mtOM64 were obtained and a specific antibody was raised to verify the absence of mtOM64 protein in the knockout plants (Figure 3A ). BN-PAGE analysis revealed that mtOM64 did not migrate with a complex, but rather it was consistently detected at the bottom of the gel, indicating that it did not form part of a larger complex under the conditions tested (data not shown). In vitro protein import reactions were conducted with a wide range of mitochondrial precursor proteins into mitochondria isolated from the two mtom64 plant lines (Figure 3B). In comparison with wild-type mitochondria, no difference in the rate of protein import was observed for AOX, PiC, GR, and TOM40. However, the import of FAd was consistently 30 to 40% lower in plants lacking mtOM64 (P < 0.05), indicating that it is involved in the import of this plant-specific protein. This is in agreement with a previous study that suggested that FAd does not solely rely on TOM20 for import (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the interaction of mtOM64 with mitochondrial precursor proteins, import competition experiments were performed with mtOM64 competitor protein that was synthesized in an in vitro wheat germ lysate transcription/translation system. First, radiolabeled precursor proteins were preincubated with expressed competitor proteins in a wheat germ lysate mix (wheat germ lysate resuspended in wheat germ reconstitution buffer), either mtOM64 or an equivalent volume, and a quantity of β-glucuronidase (GUS). Following preincubation, the precursor/competitor protein mix was added to wild-type mitochondria under conditions that support import, and the amount of precursor protein imported after 10 min was quantitated (Figure 3C). Preincubation with the wheat germ reconstitution buffer alone decreased protein import of AOX and FAd by 69 and 53%, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Preincubation with wheat germ lysate mix inhibited AOX import by 65%, indicating that the wheat germ reconstitution buffer, and not the wheat germ lysate, was responsible for the decrease in AOX import. By contrast, preincubation with the wheat germ lysate mix did not inhibit FAd import, indicating that a factor present in the wheat germ lysate stimulates FAd import, thus abrogating the inhibitory effect of the wheat germ reconstitution buffer. To control for the effects of wheat germ lysate, wheat germ reconstitution buffer, and protein overexpression, an identical volume of wheat germ lysate mix in which GUS was overexpressed was used as a control competitor protein; thus, the specific effect of mtOM64 on the import of a variety of proteins could be assessed. Preincubation of AOX or TIM23 with the mtOM64 competitor protein did not result in a significant change in the amount of precursor protein import relative to the GUS control. However, preincubation of FAd with mtOM64 resulted in a significant reduction (P < 5.0 × 10−4) of FAd import into mitochondria of 32% compared with GUS (Figure 3C), in close agreement with the decrease in the amount of import into mtom64 mitochondria (Figure 3B). Therefore, exogenous mtOM64 protein was able to specifically compete with the FAd precursor protein but not other precursors tested. Preincubation of FAd with the chloroplast import receptor At TOC64-III did not affect FAd import, in contrast with the 32% reduction after preincubation with mtOM64 (Figure 3D), again indicating a specific effect of mtOM64. The ability of mtOM64 to compete with the FAd precursor could result either from a direct interaction with this precursor or interaction with a common component on the outer membrane that enables import into mitochondria. Although the tom20 triple and mtom64 knockout plants appeared to interact with a range of precursor proteins, the lack of a striking phenotype, as observed previously when plastid import receptors were inactivated (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), suggested that additional components may also be present. Experiments were conducted to identify additional mitochondrial outer membrane proteins involved in protein import. As human METAXIN1 has previously been implicated in mitochondrial protein import (CITATION), the role of Arabidopsis METAXIN was investigated. Arabidopsis lines with independent T-DNA insertions in the METAXIN coding sequence were obtained and the absence of METAXIN transcript confirmed (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). metaxin plants displayed severe phenotypic abnormalities following leaf emergence, including diminished growth, abnormal leaf morphology and ectopic floral development and sterility (Figures 4A and 4B ). Iodine staining of plants at the end of both the light and dark photoperiods revealed that metaxin plants accumulated higher levels of starch (Figure 4C). Light microscopy of leaf cross sections indicated that the mesophyll cells of the metaxin plants contained more chloroplasts compared with the wild type (Figures 4D and 4E). Transmission electron microscopy of leaf mesophyll cells revealed large starch deposits within the chloroplasts of metaxin cells, which was not observed in wild-type cells (Figures 4F and 4G). Genetic transformation of the METAXIN cDNA sequence under the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus into metaxin plants rescued the mutant phenotype (data not shown). Sequence analysis indicated that METAXIN has two highly hydrophobic segments near the C terminus, possibly acting as transmembrane regions that anchor the protein in a membrane (Figure 4H). Arabidopsis suspension cell culture was biolistically transformed with a chimeric construct that fused green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the N terminus of METAXIN. The full-length METAXIN protein was able to direct N-terminal GFP to mitochondria, as indicated by the colocalization of GFP with the mitochondrial-targeted AOX-RFP (red fluorescent protein) control construct (Figure 4H). Interestingly, the GFP signal formed hollow circular structures, suggesting that the GFP was targeted only to the outer mitochondrial membrane. These structures closely resemble those observed by CITATION upon immunofluorescence microscopy–based detection of the mammalian mitochondrial outer membrane proteins TOM22 and Bak. [[FIGURE]] To independently confirm the outer membrane localization of METAXIN, intact wild-type mitochondria were isolated and incubated in increasing concentrations of proteinase K (PK). Immunodetection of TOM20-2 and TOM20-4 using specific polyclonal antibodies raised to their cytosolic domains revealed that 1.7 μg/mL PK resulted in the complete digestion of the cytosolic portion of these proteins (Figure 4I). Immunodetection of METAXIN by a specific polyclonal antibody raised to the predicted METAXIN cytosolic domain indicated that the cytosolic portion of METAXIN was completely degraded in the presence of 53.3 μg/mL of PK (Figure 4I). At up to 106.7 μg/mL PK, there was no noticeable degradation of VDAC (voltage-dependent anion channel) or AOX, which are located in the outer membrane and on the matrix side of the inner mitochondrial membrane, respectively, indicating that the PK did not compromise the integrity of either of the mitochondrial membranes at the concentrations used. Therefore, METAXIN is accessible to externally added PK, indicating that the predicted cytosolic domain to which the antibody was raised is exposed to the cytosol. Membrane protein complexes from both wild-type and metaxin mitochondria were solubilized by digitonin and separated by one-dimensional BN-PAGE, followed by immunodetection of METAXIN, TOM20, and the COXII subunit (cytochrome c oxidase) of mitochondrial respiratory Complex IV (Figure 4J). COXII colocalized with Complex IV, as determined by Coomassie blue staining of the respiratory complexes (data not shown), whereas METAXIN was detected in a high molecular weight complex that is distinct from the smaller TOM complex (Figure 1B). Furthermore, this high molecular weight complex could not be detected in metaxin mitochondria, indicating that it is an authentic mitochondrial protein complex containing METAXIN. Therefore, while METAXIN is exposed to the cytosol on the outer mitochondrial membrane, it is located in a distinct complex that has not previously been characterized in plant mitochondria. A range of radiolabeled mitochondrial proteins were incubated with mitochondria isolated from wild-type and metaxin plants (Figure 5 ). As the yeast SAM37 forms part of the SAM complex, the import of two β-barrel proteins, TOM40 and VDAC, was also studied. The rate of protein import into metaxin mitochondria was dramatically reduced for all precursors tested, especially TOM40 and VDAC. This indicates that METAXIN is involved in the import of these proteins into mitochondria, either because it is directly required for import by all of these mitochondrial proteins or because it is required for correct TOM40 import and assembly and thus needed for generation of a functional general import pore, as is observed for SAM37 in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). Although the decrease in protein import of all the precursor proteins may be due to insufficient import or assembly of TOM40, two-dimenstional PAGE analysis indicated that TOM40 was present in the same amount in metaxin plants as in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This indicates that the inactivation of METAXIN does not completely block the import of TOM40. [[FIGURE]] As it cannot be ruled out that the decrease in the rate of protein import into metaxin mitochondria was a downstream consequence of the disruption of TOM complex structure/organization or a process in mitochondria not directly related to protein import, an alternative approach was required to determine if it played any direct role in the import of a variety of precursor proteins destined to various intramitochondrial locations. METAXIN was expressed in a wheat germ lysate and preincubated with radiolabeled mitochondrial precursor proteins before incubation with mitochondria to determine if exogenous METAXIN could compete with mitochondria for interaction with the precursor proteins. The addition of METAXIN resulted in a large decrease in the import of diverse precursor proteins into mitochondria, relative to the amount of protein import when precursors were incubated with GUS (Figure 6A ). METAXIN preincubation inhibited the import of the general pathway proteins AOX and RPS10, the carrier pathway protein PiC, and the dual-targeted GR by 50 to 70%, while the β-barrel proteins TOM40 and VDAC were imported 30 to 40% less. Notably, very little reduction (∼10%) was observed for FAd, and TIM23 import was not significantly reduced (P > 0.1), indicating that the addition of METAXIN to the in vitro protein import reaction was not causing general disruption of the protein import machinery or general import pore but was likely specifically interacting with certain precursor proteins. [[FIGURE]] Comparative sequence alignment of plant METAXIN, animal METAXIN1, and fungal SAM37 protein sequences from nine diverse species revealed that the sequence of SAM37 from the fungi Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Aspergillus clavulata were more similar to the animal METAXIN1 proteins than to yeast SAM37 (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Two putative conserved domains were identified at similar positions in each protein, in plant METAXIN the N-terminal GST-N-METAXIN, and C-terminal GST-C-METAXIN domains, and in animals/fungi the N-terminal GST-N-METAXIN1-like and C-terminal GST-C-METAXIN1-3 domains (Figure 6B) (CITATION). Alignment of the METAXIN/SAM37 protein sequences revealed regions of significant sequence similarity in these domains. Furthermore, a region of 40 to 52 amino acids from the C-terminal end of the GST-N-METAXIN domain displayed significant similarity between all species, suggesting it may be important for protein function (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Progressive truncations of METAXIN from the C terminus were made to disrupt the three putative conserved domains, and the proteins were translated in a wheat germ lysate (Figure 6C). These METAXIN deletions were used in competition import assays with wild-type mitochondria to ascertain which regions of the METAXIN protein were required for it to compete with mitochondrial-located METAXIN for the import of radiolabeled AOX (Figure 6C). The first 112 amino acids of METAXIN inhibited AOX import; however, further deletion to only the first 72 or 37 residues of METAXIN abolished the competitive inhibition of AOX import, suggesting that the conserved region (or competitor domain) identified between amino acids 72 and 112 may be important for interaction of the METAXIN protein with AOX (Figure 6C). Preincubation with METAXIN that lacked only the competitor domain resulted in a significant decrease in import compared with GUS, but the amount of import inhibition was less than when full-length METAXIN was used as a competitor protein, further supporting a role for this region in the import of preproteins across the outer membrane. Finally, increasing the concentration of the METAXIN1-112 competitor protein resulted in increased levels of AOX import inhibition (Figure 6D). To determine if these proteins could interact directly with precursor proteins, pull-down and yeast two-hybrid interaction assays were performed. For the pull-down assays, full-length TOM20-4, METAXIN, and mtOM64 proteins were synthesized in a wheat germ lysate and added to a variety of radiolabeled precursor proteins. The interactions of each of these proteins with various precursors was tested by the ability to pull down radiolabeled precursor protein with antibodies raised against TOM20-4, METAXIN, and mtOM64, respectively (Figure 7A ). All three proteins interacted with various precursor proteins, AOX, PiC, FAd, TIM23, and TOM40. However, the precursor protein GR could not be pulled down in this assay with any of the antibodies tested (Figure 7A). Although it is not possible to compare how efficiently each antibody pulls down each precursor due to variable antibody affinities, it was apparent that although the precursor protein FAd could be pulled down by all three antibodies, it was weak in comparison to the other precursor proteins. For both AOX and FAd, removal of the mitochondrial targeting signal resulted in no interaction (Figure 7A). In contrast with the positive interaction detected with the various precursor proteins and TOM20, METAXIN, and mtOM64, using the same lysate programmed to synthesize GUS, or using the lysate alone (Figure 7A) resulted in no detectable interaction, indicating that the antibodies were not directly binding to any of the precursor proteins (Figure 7A). The binding of the Protein A Sepharose to the antibody was confirmed with protein gel blotting (Figure 7B). To further determine if these proteins interacted with mitochondrial precursor proteins, a yeast two-hybrid interaction screen was performed. The cDNAs encoding the three TOM20 proteins, METAXIN, mtOM64, and At TOC64-III, were each cloned to produce a recombinant fusion protein with the GAL4 binding domain (bait), while cDNAs encoding the precursor proteins were cloned to produce a fusion protein with the GAL4 activation domain (prey). Interactions were determined by the ability to grow without the addition of His to the media and the ability to grow in the absence of adenine to give a red/orange color. All mitochondrial precursor proteins supported growth in the absence of His when TOM20, METAXIN, or mtOM64 was used as bait, and colony numbers were typically 5- to 10-fold higher than that obtained when At TOC64-III was used as bait (data no shown). To visualize the difference, colonies were grown in the absence of adenine (Figure 7C). Whereas a red/orange color is clearly evident for all mitochondrial precursor proteins with the mitochondrial proteins as bait, At TOC64-III colonies are clearly white. Notably, nonrecombinant bait and/or prey constructs did not produce any interaction (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Removing the mitochondrial targeting signal from AOX or FAd resulted in no interaction. One exception was when GR was used as the prey fusion protein; a weak orange color was evident with At TOC64-III as bait. Arabidopsis GR is a dual-targeted protein (CITATION), although the plastid receptor for this protein has not yet been determined. It contains the consensus phosphorylation motif in the targeting signal that has been reported to increase targeting ability to chloroplasts (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Thus, it is possible that it can interact with At TOC64-III, although the color was weak compared with the color development with mitochondrial precursor proteins and mitochondrial outer membrane components. In summary, the two assays show the ability of the three mitochondrial proteins, TOM20, METAXIN, and mtOM64, to interact with a variety of mitochondrial precursor proteins. [[FIGURE]] Adaptive responses of the plant cell to ablation of the different protein import components were monitored using antibodies raised to each TOM20 isoform, mtOM64, METAXIN, and several other mitochondrial proteins (Figure 8A ). Overall, these results indicated a complicated series of responses. The absence of any one of the TOM20 isoforms did not result in an increase in the abundance of either of the remaining two TOM20 proteins (Figure 8A). However, in plants lacking two TOM20 isoforms, the amount of the remaining TOM20 protein increased at least twofold, supporting the observation from in vitro protein import experiments (Figure 2B) that the TOM20 isoforms are largely functionally redundant. Furthermore, the amount of METAXIN was increased in each TOM20 double mutant. The level of the inner mitochondrial membrane translocase component TIM17 increased in tom20-2 tom20-4, tom20-3 tom20-4, and the tom20 triple knockout, indicating that the retrograde regulatory mechanism that increases TOM20 abundance may also control other mitochondrial protein import components. Interestingly, mtOM64 abundance increased in all tom20 plants except tom20-2 (Figure 8A). Together, the alteration in abundance of each component is consistent with the proposal of overlapping roles for these proteins. Notably, no signal was evident in the tom20 triple knockout when probed with the TOM20-3 antibody. As this antibody clearly interacts with TOM20-1 (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), and as the abundance of TOM20-2, TOM20-3, and TOM20-4 increased in the respective TOM20 double knockout lines, it appears that TOM20-1 abundance is not being increased perceptibly to compensate for the loss of the three highly expressed isoforms. As TOM20-1 transcript abundance is extremely low (see Supplemental Figure 1C online) and detection of the TOM20-1 protein has not been reported, it appears that this isoform does not play an important role in mitochondrial protein import. [[FIGURE]] AOX protein abundance, a marker for retrograde signaling in plant mitochondria (CITATION), increased in all mutants lacking TOM20-2, most noticeably in tom20-2/tom20-4 and the tom20 triple knockout. The in vitro protein import experiments revealed that TOM20-2 plays a specialized role in AOX recognition and import (Figure 2B). AOX is a marker of stress-induced mitochondrial retrograde pathways in plants, and its upregulation in tom20-2 indicates that this isoform alone appears to trigger this response (CITATION). Similarly, the E1α subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1α) was less abundant in mitochondria isolated from tom20-2/tom20-3 and the tom20 triple knockout, indicating that TOM20-2 and TOM20-3 may both have a higher affinity for this mitochondrial protein. The levels of the inner membrane uncoupling protein (UCP), VDAC, cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COXII), and heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) were unchanged in the tom20 mutant plants, including the tom20 triple knockout, demonstrating that despite lacking all TOM20 receptors, the mitochondria are able to import a wide range of proteins to a final abundance very similar to wild-type levels. This again demonstrates that TOM20 is not an essential protein import component and that the plant cell lacking TOM20 is able to generate a mitochondrial proteome quite similar to wild-type mitochondria. This may be achieved by the operation of the other protein import components mtOM64 and METAXIN. Furthermore, it suggests that the upregulation of TOM20, mtOM64, and TIM17 in the tom20 double and triple knockout plants is not the consequence of an extensive alteration of a wide range of mitochondrial proteins, but rather the outcome of a precise retrograde regulatory pathway that specifically targets the mitochondrial protein import apparatus. The mtom64 mitochondria did not display significant changes in the abundance of the proteins tested, except that the abundance of METAXIN was consistently higher (Figure 8A). The metaxin mitochondria showed dramatic decreases in the abundance of several mitochondrial proteins, including an almost total absence of all TOM20 isoforms and mtOM64 and a large reduction in TIM17 and UCP abundance (Figure 8A). Interestingly, AOX protein levels increased significantly in the metaxin mitochondria, as did the alternative respiratory pathway activity catalyzed by AOX (CITATION), suggesting that this protein is required at a greater abundance in the mitochondria in response to aberrant mitochondrial behavior. This is in agreement with the suggestion that elevated AOX abundance in mitochondria lacking TOM20-2 is an adaptation to increased stress. By contrast, the level of VDAC, E1α, COXII, and HSP60 were unaltered compared with wild-type mitochondria, suggesting that despite a partially dysfunctional protein import apparatus in metaxin, the plant cell can achieve normal levels of many mitochondrial proteins. To determine if the abundance of VDAC throughout the plant cell was unaltered by ablation of METAXIN, cytosolic proteins were isolated from wild-type and metaxin leaves and the amount of VDAC measured by immunodetection (Figure 8B). metaxin plants had a much higher abundance of VDAC in the cytosol, in contrast with the very low levels of VDAC in the wild-type cytosolic fraction. Equivalent abundance of the cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase between wild-type and metaxin cytosolic fractions demonstrated that not all cytosolic proteins in the mutant had increased abundance. Cytosolic accumulation of mitochondrial E1α was not observed, indicating that the cytosolic accumulation does not occur for all mitochondrial proteins and that METAXIN may be particularly important for the recognition and import of VDAC. Together with the increased VDAC and TOM40 transcript abundance in metaxin plants (Figure 8C), this suggests that the metaxin cells upregulate the expression of this critical protein to attain normal levels in mitochondria, potentially by saturating the residual import capability of the metaxin mitochondria. To determine if TOM40 was present in the metaxin and tom20 triple knockout lines, two-dimensional isoelectric focusing (IEF)/SDS-PAGE analysis was performed with purified mitochondrial proteins, and the amount of TOM40 was determined. Overall, there appeared to be no significant changes in TOM40 abundance in any of the mutant plant lines (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Likewise, for the FAd subunit, it was evident that it was present at normal levels in the mtom64 plants (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Finally, it was evident that AOX was more abundant in tom20-2, tom20-2 tom20-4, tom20-2 tom20-3 tom20-4, and metaxin lines (Figure 8A), even though import was reduced from ∼30 to 80%, respectively. Thus, the steady state levels of proteins present in mitochondria isolated from 4-week-old mutant plants was not affected by the absence of the respective import components, even though a reduced rate of protein import for these proteins was measured in vitro.
!~MM~! All plants were grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of 100 μE m−2 s−1 light, 8 h dark), except for metaxin plants that were iodine stained for starch content analysis, which were grown with a 12-h-light/12-h-dark photoperiod. For T-DNA insertion line genotyping, Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were grown on soil after stratification for 2 d. For mitochondrial isolation, Arabidopsis seeds were sterilized in 70% (v/v) ethanol and 5% (v/v) bleach/0.1% (v/v) Tween 20 and grown for 14 d on an orbital shaker at 80 rpm in 80 mL of sterile liquid growth media (0.5× Murashige and Skoog media, 0.5× Gamborgs B5 vitamins, 2% [w/v] sucrose, 50 μg/mL cefotaxime, and 2 mM MES KOH, pH 5.7). As metaxin homozygotes are infertile, seeds from plants heterozygous for the metaxin-1 or metaxin-2 null allele were sterilized as above and grown for 14 d on agar growth media (1× Gamborgs B5 salts, 3% [w/v] sucrose, 50 μg/mL cefotaxime, 2 mM MES KOH, pH 5.7, and 0.75% [w/v] agar). metaxin homozygote plants were then transplanted to soil and grown until flowering. Columbia-0 control plants were grown under the same conditions as metaxin. For iodine staining of starch, plant tissue was boiled for 5 min in 80% (w/v) ethanol, washed in water, and then incubated for 5 min in 50% (v/v) Lugols's solution (Sigma-Aldrich). Plant tissue was then destained for 90 min in water. The following T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from SALK (CITATION), SAIL (CITATION), and GABI-KAT (CITATION) collections and genotyped to confirm homozygosity for the T-DNA insert: tom20-2 (At1g27390): SALK_067986, SALK_134973; tom20-3 (At3g27080): GABI_554C03, SAIL_88_A03; tom20-4: SALK_147093, SALK_004057; mtOM64 (At5g09420): SALK_068772, SALK_089921; and metaxin (At2g19080): SALK_107629, SALK_039892. Approximately 10 g (fresh weight) of aerial tissue from soil-grown plants or 20 g (fresh weight) of 14-d-old seedlings from liquid-grown (water culture) plants were used to isolate mitochondria as described previously (CITATION), with 10 mM l-Cys added to the grinding medium. Typically, 10 g of soil-grown and 20 g of liquid-grown plant tissue yielded ∼2 mg of mitochondrial protein. For isolation of mitochondria for protein gel blot analysis, BSA was omitted from the final washes. All mitochondria were isolated from liquid-grown seedlings except for the metaxin genotypes, for which aerial tissue was used due to sterility of the metaxin null mutant. Rosette tissue was homogenized in grinding buffer without BSA (CITATION), centrifuged at 2500g for 5 min, and then the supernatant centrifuged at 40,000g for 40 min. Crude cytosolic supernatant was centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. The supernatant was concentrated in a >5 kD centrifugal filter unit (Millipore). Mitochondrial or cytosolic proteins (50 μg) were resolved by SDS-PAGE, transferred to Hybond-C extra nitrocellulose membrane, and immunodetection performed as previously outlined (CITATION). Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against recombinant protein encoded by the predicted cytosolic regions of METAXIN, mtOM64, TOM20-2, and TOM20-4. TOM20-3 polyclonal antibody was obtained from Trevor Lithgow (University of Melbourne, Vic, Australia) (CITATION). Antibodies to HSP60 were obtained from Stress-Gen, and antibodies to COXII and cFBPase were obtained from Agrisera. Monoclonal antibodies against VDAC (PM035) and E1α (PM030) were obtained from Tom Elthon (University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE). Antibodies to AOX (CITATION), TIM17 (CITATION), and UCP (CITATION) have been described previously. For the immunodetection experiments, mitochondrial proteins were isolated from the same water culture-grown seedling tissue that was used to prepare mitochondria for the in vitro import experiments, except for metaxin plants, for which tissue was always obtained from aerial rosettes. IgG was purified for pull-down and inhibition studies using the Pierce Melon IgG purification kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Pierce). For the pull-down assays, TOM20, mtOM64, and METAXIN were expressed in the wheat germ RTS (Roche), and on completion of the 24-h synthesis reaction, 1 μL of freshly synthesized radiolabeled precursor was incubated with 15 μL of freshly synthesized TOM20, mtOM64, or METAXIN and incubated at 24°C for 1 h. RTS lysate programmed to synthesize GUS was used as a control, antibody obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. At the end of the incubation period, the volume was adjusted to 300 μL in PBS with 1% (w/v) BSA, and 50 μL of Protein A Sepharose 4B conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich) was added to preclear the lysate for any nonspecific binding to the Protein A Sepharose (CITATION). After incubation with gentle mixing for 1 h, the Protein A Sepharose was removed by centrifugation. Five microliters of the appropriate purified antibody was added and incubated for 1 h, followed by addition of 50 μL of Protein A Sepharose and incubation for a further 1 h. The beads were pelleted by centrifugation at 5000 rpm, washed in 200 μL of PBS with 1% (w/v) BSA, and repelleted. Products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by exposure to a BAS-TR2040 plate for 48 h and imaged in a BAS2500 (Fuji). Four different sets of negative controls were performed to ensure that the antibody was only pulling down the target proteins and that interactions of the precursor protein with the test proteins was mediated by the mitochondrial targeting signal. First, AOX and FAd proteins were engineered that lacked the mitochondrial targeting signal, called AOXΔp and FAdΔp, respectively (see below for details), to test if interaction was with this region of the protein. Second, the pull downs were performed in the absence of TOM20, METAXIN, mtOM64, or GUS to ensure that any radiolabeled precursor was not being pulled down directly with the antibody. Third, the nonmitochondrial protein GUS was used as a comparison. Finally, the specificity of the pull down was tested by protein gel blotting. The Clontech Matchmaker two-hybrid system was used to determine interactions between the precursor proteins AOX, AOXΔp, FAd, FAdΔp, PiC, GR, and TOM40 with TOM20-2, TOM20-3, TOM20-4, mtOM64, METAXIN, and At TOC64-III. The latter were cloned into the bait vector pGADT7-Rec[2] (Leu selection) and the precursor proteins cloned into the prey vector pGBKT7 (Trp selection) by recombination cloning according to the manufacturer's instructions. Positive interactions were screened via two rounds of selection, first by growth on -His (with -Leu and -Trp) media and secondly by growth on -Ade media (with -Leu, -Trp, and -His); this higher stringency protocol reduces the rate of false positives (CITATION). In the case of the AOX and FAd precursor proteins, the first 42 and 31 amino acids were removed as these regions had been previously shown to contain the mitochondrial targeting activity (CITATION; CITATION). Mitochondrial membrane complexes were solubilized in 5% (v/v) digitonin and separated by first dimension BN-PAGE as described previously (CITATION). Proteins from the first dimension gel were transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane and immunodetection performed as described above. The cDNAs encoding the following proteins have been described previously: AOX (GenBank accession number X68702) (CITATION), FAd (GenBank accession number X79057) (CITATION), GR (At3g54660) (CITATION), PiC (GenBank accession number ABO16064) (CITATION; CITATION), and RPS10 (At3g22300) (CITATION). METAXIN (At2g19080), mtOM64 (At5g09420), At TOC64-III (At3g17970), TOM40 (At3g20000), and VDAC (At3g01280) were amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA as described previously (CITATION). GFP subcellular localization was performed by cloning GFP-5 in frame with the N or C terminus of the cDNA clone and subsequent transformation of Arabidopsis suspension cells by biolistic transformation (CITATION; CITATION). RFP was fused to the targeting signal of soybean (Glycine max) alternative oxidase (AOX-RFP) as a mitochondrial control (CITATION). Fluorescence patterns were visualized after 48 h under an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope and imaged using CellR imaging software. [35S]-Met–labeled precursor proteins were synthesized using rabbit reticulocyte TNT in vitro transcription/translation lysate (Promega) as described previously (CITATION). The use of equivalent quantities of mitochondria from different genotypes in import reactions was ensured by triplicate measurement of protein concentration with the Coomassie protein assay reagent (Pierce). Time-course analysis of precursor protein import into intact mitochondria isolated from wild-type or mutant plants was performed as described previously (CITATION), but with the addition of 1 mM GTP and 1 mM NADH to the import master mix. Briefly, 250 μg of mitochondria were added to 450 μL of ice-cold import master mix (0.3 M sucrose, 50 mM KCl, 10 mM MOPS, 5 mM KH2PO4, 0.1% [w/v] BSA, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM Met, 0.2 mM ADP, 0.75 mM ATP, 5 mM succinate, 5 mM DTT, 1 mM GTP, and 1 mM NADH, pH 7.5) and incubated on ice for 3 min. Twenty-five microliters of radiolabeled precursor protein was added and the import reaction initiated by incubation at 26°C with gentle rocking. One hundred microliters containing 50 μg mitochondrial protein was removed at 2, 5, 10, and 20 min. Upon removal, each aliquot was mixed with 3.2 μg PK and incubated on ice for 30 min. Proteolysis was inhibited by the addition of 1 μL of 100 mM PMSF. Mitochondria were reisolated by centrifugation at 20,000g for 3 min at 4°C, the mitochondrial pellet resuspended in sample buffer, and the protein sample separated by SDS-PAGE gel and imported radiolabeled proteins detected as outlined previously (CITATION). PK protected mature radiolabeled protein was quantitated at each time point and normalized to the highest time point measurement for replicate experiments (n = 3 ± se). For import competition assays, competitor proteins were synthesized using the RTS wheat germ lysate in vitro transcription/translation system (Roche), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Competitor protein was used in the wheat germ lysate mix (consisting of wheat germ lysate resuspended in wheat germ reconstitution buffer) in which it was synthesized, without further purification from the wheat germ lysate mix. Five microliters of radiolabeled precursor protein was mixed with 15 μL of competitor protein (2 μg) in wheat germ lysate mix and preincubated at room temperature for 15 min. A control competition reaction was performed by preincubation of precursor protein with 15 μL (2 μg) of GUS in wheat germ lysate mix. Therefore, the same quantity of wheat germ lysate mix was added to both competitor and control competition import reactions. The expressed competitor protein was quantitated by separation of the proteins by SDS-PAGE and protein gel blotting with Anti-6-His antibodies, as all proteins expressed in this system contained a 6-His tag. The radiolabeled precursor/competitor solution was added to an import master mix containing mitochondria and incubated at 26°C for 10 min, after which the import reaction was stopped by incubation on ice and PK treatment. PK-protected mature radiolabeled protein was quantitated at each time point and normalized to the amount of protein imported after preincubation with GUS. To test for the effect of the wheat germ lysate mix upon mitochondrial protein import, AOX and FAd precursor proteins were preincubated for 15 min at room temperature with either 15 μL of wheat germ lysate mix or 15 μL of wheat germ reconstitution buffer alone, after which protein import was performed as described above. Mature imported radiolabeled protein was quantitated after import and normalized to the amount of protein imported in a control import reaction in which precursors had not been preincubated in wheat germ lysate mix or wheat germ reconstitution buffer. Mitochondria were isolated from liquid grown plants as described above and 500 μg of mitochondria incubated with 0 to 32 μg PK in a final volume of 300 μL of 1× wash buffer (CITATION) on ice for 15 min. Proteolysis was inhibited by the addition of 2 μL of 100 mM PMSF. Mitochondria were reisolated by centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min and resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Fifty micrograms was separated in each lane by SDS-PAGE and immunodetection with specific antibodies performed. Mitochondria for two-dimensional IEF/SDS PAGE separation were further purified by centrifugation on a 45% Percoll gradient in 1× wash buffer minus BSA (CITATION). The mitochondrial fraction was washed twice in 1× wash buffer minus BSA, then pelleted by centrifugation at 31,000g for 15 min. Mitochondrial proteins were separated by two-dimensional IEF/SDS-PAGE as described previously (CITATION). Trypsin digestion and tandem mass spectrometry identification of proteins from two-dimensional PAGE gels was performed as described previously (CITATION). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed as per the manufacturer's instructions using the Roche LC480 and LightCycler480 SYBR Green I Master (Roche) in a total volume of 10 μL. Gene-specific primers were used with cDNA pools synthesized from wild-type and metaxin rosette leaf total RNA as described previously (CITATION). Primers for measurement of transcript abundance are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Transcript abundance for each amplicon was normalized to the wild-type sample. The phylogenetic relationship was inferred using the neighbor-joining method. Sequence alignment was performed using ClustalW (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The bootstrap consensus tree inferred from 5000 replicates was taken to represent the relatedness of the sequences analyzed. Branches corresponding to partitions reproduced in <50% bootstrap replicates are collapsed. The percentage of replicate trees in which the associated sequences clustered together in the bootstrap test (5000 replicates) are shown next to the branches. The tree is drawn to scale, with branch lengths in the same units as those of the evolutionary distances used to infer the phylogenetic tree. All positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated from the data set (complete deletion option). There were a total of 263 positions in the final data set. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted in MEGA4. Sequence data from this article can be found in the National Center for Biotechnology Information and Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: TOM20-1, NP_189343 and At3g27070; TOM20-2, NP_174059 and At1g27390; TOM20-3, NP_189344 and At3g27080; TOM20-4, NP_198909 and At5g40930; MEXAXIN, NP_565446 and At2g19080; mtOM64, NP_196504 and At5g09420; Pic, X57566; AOX, X68702; FAd, X79057; GR, X27456; TOM40, NP_188634 and At3g2000; VDAC, Q9SMX3 and At5g15090; ACT2, NM_112764 and At3g18780; UBC, ABF59034 and At5g25760. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Analysis of the Expression of TOM20-1. Supplemental Figure 2. Null Mutations in Any of the TOM20 Genes Do Not Lead to Deficiencies in Mitochondrial Protein Import. Supplemental Figure 3. Effect upon Protein Import by Components of the Wheat Germ Lysate Expression System. Supplemental Figure 4. metaxin Mutants Are Depleted in METAXIN Transcript. Supplemental Figure 5. ClustalW Protein Sequence Alignment of Plant METAXIN, Animal METAXIN1, and Fungal SAM37 Protein Sequences. Supplemental Figure 6. The Mitochondrial Proteome Is Not Significantly Altered by Lesions in METAXIN, mtOM64, or Any TOM20 Isoform. Supplemental Figure 7. Negative and Positive Controls for Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay.
