!~ABS~! As in mammalian systems, heterotrimeric G proteins, composed of α, β and γ subunits, are present in plants and are involved in the regulation of development and cell signaling. Besides the sole prototypical G protein α subunit gene, GPA1, the Arabidopsis thaliana genome has three extra-large GTP-binding protein (XLG)-encoding genes: XLG1 (At2g23460), XLG2 (At4g34390) and XLG3 (At1g31930). The C-termini of the XLGs are Gα domains that are homologous to GPA1, whereas their N-termini each contain a cysteine-rich region and a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS). GFP fusions with each XLG confirmed nuclear localization. All three XLG genes are expressed in essentially all plant organs, with strong expression in vascular tissues, primary root meristems and lateral root primordia. Analysis of single, double and triple T-DNA insertional mutants of the XLG genes revealed redundancy in XLG function. Dark-grown xlg1-1 xlg2-1 xlg3-1 triple mutant plants showed markedly increased primary root length compared with wild-type plants. This phenotype was not observed in dark-grown xlg single mutants, and was suppressed upon complementation of the xlg triple mutant with each XLG. Root cell sizes of the xlg triple mutant and root morphology were highly similar to those of wild-type roots, suggesting that XLGs may regulate cell proliferation. Dark-grown roots of the xlg triple mutants also showed altered sensitivity to sugars, ABA hyposensitivity and ethylene hypersensitivity, whereas seed germination in xlg triple mutants was hypersensitive to osmotic stress and ABA. As plant-specific proteins, regulatory mechanisms of XLGs may differ from those of conventional Gαs.
!~RES~! Results from Southern blotting by CITATION indicated that additional gene(s) in the Arabidopsis genome exist which are sufficiently similar to XLG1 that they can hybridize with the full-length XLG1 cDNA probe. With completion of the Arabidopsis genome sequence, two more genes encoding XLGs were found by sequence homology search: XLG2 (At4g34390), which was originally annotated as ‘extra-large G protein-like’, and XLG3 (At1g31930), which was originally annotated as ‘G protein α subunit, putative’. XLG2 and XLG3 have 59% and 66% similarity to XLG1, respectively (calculated by blast 2 sequences at NCBI; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/bl2seq/wblast2.cgi). The three predicted proteins share similar conserved structural features (Figure 1). In this report, we provide evidence that the three proteins encoded by these genes exhibit functional redundancy. Therefore, we propose that the annotation of At4g34390 as XLG2 and At1g31930 as XLG3, a nomenclature that is extant on the TAIR website (http://www.arabidopsis.org), be universally adopted. [[FIGURE]] As for XLG1, a Gα domain is present in the C-terminal regions of XLG2 and XLG3, as deduced by a scan of the sequences using the NCBI conserved domain search (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Structure/cdd/wrpsb.cgi; CITATION) and the Protein families database of alignments and hidden Markov models (Pfam; http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk; Bateman et al., 2002, 2004). The C-terminal regions of the conceptually translated XLG2 and XLG3 have 48% and 51% similarity to GPA1, respectively (calculated by BLAST2 sequences at NCBI; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/bl2seq/wblast2.cgi). A comparison of critical residues for G protein structure and function between conventional G proteins and XLG1 has been elaborated by CITATION. As observed for XLG1 (CITATION), XLG2 and XLG3 also maintain most features of Gα domains: G-1 to G-5 regions of the GTPase domain, a helical domain between the G-1 and G-2 regions, and an aspartate (D)/glutamate (E)-rich loop between the G-3 and G-4 regions (Figure 1). Although all three XLG proteins maintain some of the conserved amino acids within the GTPase domain, there are also variations in some amino acid residues that have been thought to be critical for GTP binding and hydrolysis. In the G-1 region for NTP binding (featured by GxxxxGKST), XLG1 and XLG3 both have GxxxxGTST, whereas XLG2 has GxxxxGATT. In the G-2 (featured by DxxxxxxxT) and G-3 (featured by DxxGQ) regions, both of which are involved in GTP hydrolysis, XLG1 and XLG3 maintain the conserved D and T in the G-2 region; XLG2 has the conserved D in the G-2 region, but lacks the T in the G-2 region. All three XLGs lack the conserved D, G, and Q in the G-3 region. XLG1 and XLG3 maintain all conserved residues in the G-4 region (featured by NKxD) for guanine interaction, whereas XLG2 has one variation in the G-4 region: the N is replaced by a T. As is also true for XLG1, XLG2 and XLG3 do not have the C-terminal cysteine for ADP-ribosylation by pertussis toxin, or the arginine residue for ADP-ribosylation by cholera toxin, which are found in some Gαs. A cysteine-rich region in the N-termini of XLG2 and XLG3 shows the same cysteine-spacing pattern as in XLG1. However, unlike XLG1, XLG2 and XLG3 do not possess a TonB box consensus sequence. All three XLGs have predicted nuclear localization sequences (NLS; Figure 1; PredictNLS, http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/cgi/var/nair/resonline.pl), and are predicted by PSORT to localize to the nucleus (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/form.html). Besides the three XLGs, the Arabidopsis genome also contains four genes annotated as encoding ‘XLG-related proteins’ (At1g01440, At2g46380, At3g61670 and At4g01090). These proteins share weak similarity to XLGs, but high similarity to one another (Figure S1). At2g46380, At3g61670 and At4g01090 are 50%, 51% and 58% similar to At1g01440 at the amino acid level, respectively. None of these XLG-related proteins is predicted to have a Gα domain, by either NCBI conserved domain search or Pfam, and nor do these XLG-related proteins have the cysteine-rich region that is highly conserved in the XLGs. However, the C-terminal regions of XLG-related proteins do show similarity to parts of the XLG N-termini (Figure S1). The XLGs and the XLG-related proteins may share an evolutionary relationship, but there is little evidence from sequence analysis for a functional connection. To confirm the bioinformatic prediction of a nuclear localization sequence in the N-termini of XLG proteins, the N-termini of the XLG coding regions were fused upstream of a GFP reporter, and the resulting constructs were used to transiently transform Vicia faba leaves via biolistic particle bombardment. The fluorescence of all three XLG N-terminus-GFP (XLGN-GFP) fusion proteins is localized in the nucleus (Figure 2a). Similarly, fluorescence of the full-length XLG proteins, with N-terminal (GFP-XLG; Figure 2b) or C-terminal (XLG-GFPs; data not shown) GFP fusions also localizes in the nucleus, confirming nuclear localization, independent of the position of the GFP tag within the fusion protein. Localization in the nucleoplasm was confirmed by z-axis sectioning using confocal microscopy (Zeiss LSM 510; data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Results from reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) indicate that the three XLG genes are expressed in the roots, hypocotyls, cotyledons, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flowers and green siliques of Arabidopsis (Figure 2c), consistent with microarray results from public databases (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/, CITATION; data not shown). To investigate expression patterns in more detail, promoters of the XLG1, XLG2 and XLG3 genes were fused upstream of the GUS reporter gene, and the resulting constructs were transformed into Columbia wild-type plants to generate XLG promoter::GUS (PXLG::GUS) lines. Staining of these PXLG::GUS lines revealed strong expression in shoot vasculature and meristem (Figure 3a–e). Figure 3(a–d) shows results from PXLG1::GUS lines, and Figure 3(e) is from a PXLG2::GUS line; these results are typical of the data for all three XLGs.Figure 3(f) shows expression of PXLG2::GUS at the base of the flower and in sepals, petals, stigma and anthers; the pattern of PXLG3::GUS staining was identical, whereas PXLG1::GUS did not express in petals, stigma or pollen under the same staining conditions (Figure S2). At higher magnification, staining of the vascular tissue of sepals and filaments was evident for all three PXLG::GUS constructs, and PXLG2::GUS and PXLG3::GUS expression in veins of petals was also seen (Figure S2 and data not shown). The XLG genes are expressed in young seedlings grown both in light and darkness (Figure 3g,h). Darker GUS staining was observed in the lateral root primordia (g). Similar darkly stained areas were also consistently observed in the hypocotyls (h), but their significance is unknown. Corresponding to the root phenotype in the xlg triple mutant, which will be described later, all three XLG genes are strongly expressed in the radicle (Figure 3i–k), in the primary root meristem and columnella cells (Figure 3l–n), and in the lateral root primordia (Figure 3o–q). The XLG genes are expressed in both xylem and phloem of primary roots (e.g. Figure 3r). Expression of XLG2 and XLG3 was strong throughout the entire root tip (Figure 3m,n), whereas XLG1 exhibited a more restricted expression pattern (Figure 3l). Analysis of publicly available cell-specific root microarray data is consistent with the root expression patterns observed (Figure S3), and reveals an interesting 1.9-fold enrichment of XLG1 transcript levels in the quiescent center (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To facilitate the study of the biological functions of the XLGs, we screened for T-DNA insertional mutants of the XLG genes in the publicly available collections. All T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed on both sides of the insertion by genomic PCR, followed by sequencing of the PCR product, using upstream and downstream gene-specific primers in combination with T-DNA specific primers. Figure 4(a) depicts the single T-DNA insertional mutants used in this study. The T-DNA insertion in xlg1-1 is in the promoter region. Although a polyclonal XLG1 antibody is available that identifies recombinant XLG1 protein, the specificity and sensitivity of this antibody was not sufficient to assess XLG protein levels in planta (data not shown), and additional attempts to raised XLG antibodies have been unsuccessful to date. However, based on RT-PCR analysis and quantitative real-time PCR analysis of xlg1-1, the xlg1-1 mutation reduces expression of full-length XLG1 transcript approximately fourfold (Figure S4a). xlg2-1 does not produce a full-length transcript, but it does produce a truncated XLG2 transcript at a level that is only ∼10% of the full-length transcript present in wild-type, as assessed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (Figure S4c). xlg3-1 is a null mutation, as assessed using pairs of gene-specific primer both upstream and downstream of the T-DNA insertion site (Figure S4b,c). All of these mutations are recessive. Given their sequence similarity, it is possible that the three XLGs have functional overlap. Therefore, plants harboring the mutant alleles depicted in Figure 4a, which were the best available alleles in the Col-0 background, were used to generate double and triple mutants. The homozygous triple mutant xlg1-1 xlg2-1 xlg3-1 will hereafter be referred to as the ‘xlg triple mutant’. [[FIGURE]] Homozygous xlg single mutant lines, along with wild type, were tested on agar plates and in soil with or without various hormone, nutrient and light treatments. In >20 different conditions, no significant phenotypic differences from wild-type were observed (data not shown), suggesting redundancy of XLG function. By contrast, striking root phenotypes were observed for the xlg2-1 xlg3-1 double mutant and the xlg triple mutant when grown in darkness. Correlating with strong XLG expression in the root apical meristem, etiolated xlg2-1 xlg3-1 double mutants and xlg triple mutants showed much longer primary roots as compared with wild-type plants (Figure 4b,c). The primary root length of the xlg2-1 xlg3-1 double mutant plants is ∼1.3-fold that of the wild-type plants, whereas the primary roots of the xlg triple mutant plants are ∼1.6-fold longer than those of wild type. The differences in root length of these mutants could be detected as early as 4–5 days after growth in darkness (data not shown). Considering different mutational strengths of the xlg1-1, xlg2-1 and xlg3-1 alleles, it is not surprising to see a graduated phenotype among single, double and triple mutants. Complementation experiments, in which either an empty vector or cDNAs for XLG1, XLG2 or XLG3, were introduced into the triple mutant, confirmed XLG mutation as the cause of the phenotype (Figure 4d). Partial or complete suppression of the long root phenotype was observed in nine out of 10 independent XLG1 complementation lines, eight out of eight independent XLG2 complementation lines, and five out of five independent XLG3 complementation lines, whereas none of 10 independent empty vector lines showed any complementation. For each of these 33 lines, at least 20 individual seedlings were assessed per line. The complementation experiments definitively associate the long root phenotype with xlg mutation. Moreover, it is doubtful that the use of the 35S promoter in this case led to overexpression, because, for example, GFP fluorescence could not be detected in the lines complemented with XLG1-GFP (data not shown), despite the fact that restoration of a wild-type phenotype was observed, indicating that the transgene was expressed at very low levels. In addition, quantitative real-time PCR analysis (data not shown) showed that lines complemented with XLG1-GFP and XLG2-FLAG had levels of these transgene transcripts that were similar to those of the native genes in wild-type Col-0. To assess whether increased root length in the xlg triple mutant was the result of increased cell elongation, we evaluated the length of root epidermal cells in the xlg triple mutant versus wild-type plants grown in darkness on 2% sucrose, conditions that maximize differences in root length. The fluorescent dye FM4-64 was used to clearly delineate cell size (Figure 5a,c). As shown in Figure 5(b), cell lengths of the xlg triple mutant are only 1.05-fold larger than those of wild-type plants. This slight increase is not sufficient to account for the 1.6–2.0-fold increase in root length. In addition, there were no evident differences in the sizes of cells in the root meristematic region or elongation zone (Figure 5c, and data not shown), and the proportional sizes of the zones of cell division and cell elongation were indistinguishable from wild type. No visible difference in patterning of root cell types or cellular morphology was seen in the xlg triple mutant by confocal laser scanning microscopy using the fluorescent dye FM4-64 to visualize cellular morphology (cf Figure 5c and data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Increased root length in the presence of sucrose is a characteristic of some sugar-insensitive mutants (CITATION), and conventional heterotrimeric G proteins are involved in sugar sensing (CITATION; CITATION). As the experiments reported in Figure 4(b–d) were performed in the presence of 1% sucrose, which is a standard media composition, we further evaluated the effects of sucrose concentrations ranging from 0.5% to 10% on the root length phenotype of the xlg triple mutant (Figure 6a,b). Although both wild-type and xlg triple mutants showed decreased root lengths at both low sucrose concentrations (presumably reflecting a nutritional need for sucrose in these dark-grown plants) and at high sucrose concentrations (presumably resulting from osmotic effects, see below), the xlg triple mutants showed considerable growth promotion over wild type at sucrose concentrations between 0.5% and 3.0% (Figure 6a,b). At 2% sucrose, primary roots of the xlg triple mutant were almost twice as long as those of wild type (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] Maximum differential growth between the xlg triple mutant and wild-type roots was observed at 2–3% sucrose. Accordingly, root growth at glucose, fructose and mannitol molarities equivalent to 3% sucrose (i.e. 87.6 mm for each sugar) was also evaluated (Figure 6c). Enhanced root length of dark-grown xlg triple mutants was also observed in the presence of glucose, and fructose, although less so. Of interest is the observation that root growth of the xlg triple mutant was less than in wild type in the presence of 3% mannitol. This result suggests that the xlg triple mutant is hypersensitive to osmotic stress, but yet can overcome this hypersensitivity at 2–3% concentrations of metabolizable sugars. In support of this hypothesis, root length of the xlg triple mutant was reduced to wild-type values on 6% sucrose, and was actually shorter than wild type on 6% concentrations of glucose, fructose and mannitol (Figure 6d). xlg triple mutant plants were also hypersensitive to the non-metabolizable sugars, l-glucose, and 3-O-methyl-d-glucose (Figure 6d). Because selected sugar-insensitive (sis) or glucose-insensitive (gin) mutants reveal interaction between sugar signaling and ABA or ethylene signaling pathways (CITATION; CITATION), we also evaluated root growth responses of the xlg triple mutant to these phytohormones. As illustrated in Figure 6e, dark-grown xlg triple mutants were indeed less sensitive than wild type to ABA inhibition of primary root growth, and much more sensitive than wild type to inhibition of root elongation by the ethylene precursor, ACC (Figure 6f). Because mutants in sugar sensing often exhibit seed germination phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we also evaluated the sugar and ABA sensitivity of germination in the xlg triple mutant (Figure 7b). At low sugar concentrations (1% or 3%), germination of the xlg triple mutant was statistically identical to wild type with all sugars tested, including sucrose. At higher sugar concentrations (6%), the xlg triple mutant showed inhibition of germination when compared with wild type. However, this appears to be an osmotic stress phenotype, rather than a sugar sensing phenotype, as it is uniformly observed with all sugars tested, including mannitol (Figure 7a). Despite hyposensitivity of primary root growth to ABA in the xlg triple mutant, this mutant shows hypersensitivity to ABA inhibition of seed germination: about 50% inhibition of germination was observed at 0.5 μm ABA for the xlg triple mutant, as compared with the ∼2 μm ABA required for wild-type seeds (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]] To assess whether there is any phenotypic correlation between the xlg triple mutants and heterotrimeric G protein mutants, comparative morphological analyses were performed. Because growth phenotypes may vary with subtle differences in environmental conditions (CITATION; CITATION), gpa1-3, agb1-2, gpa1-4 agb1-2 double mutant and the xlg triple mutant were grown and assessed simultaneously for growth assays, even for established gpa1 and agb1 phenotypes. When grown in darkness under our particular conditions, plants harboring an agb1 mutation also had longer roots than wild type (as reported in light-grown plants; CITATION), although not as long as the xlg triple mutant (Figure S6a). Root length of the gpa1-3 mutant was indistinguishable from wild type, as has also been previously reported for light-grown plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As reported before (CITATION; CITATION; Ullah et al., 2001, 2003), mature rosettes of the gpa1 and the agb1 mutants have rounded rosette leaves and a smaller rosette diameter relative to wild type, whereas the xlg triple mutant is indistinguishable from wild type at this developmental stage (Figure S6b). Unlike the agb1 mutants, which have shorter but wider siliques with blunt tips (CITATION), the xlg triple mutant siliques exhibit a wild-type morphology (data not shown).
!~MM~! In this study, if the intergenic region upstream of the XLG gene was <2.5 kb, the entire intergenic region was defined as the promoter of the gene. If the upstream intergenic region was longer than 2.5 kb, the promoter was defined as a 2.5-kb intergenic region immediately upstream of the start codon of the XLG gene. Using these criteria, the promoters of the XLG1, XLG2 and XLG3 genes are 2492, 1240 and 1960 bp, respectively. The promoters of the XLG genes were amplified by PCR, cloned into pCR2.1-Topo vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com), sequenced, and then subcloned upstream of the GUS gene of binary vector pGPTV-HPT (CITATION). The constructs were transformed into wild-type plants (Col-0) via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Transformants were selected from progeny based on growth on selective antibiotic marker-containing medium, and were confirmed by genotyping PCR. Embryos of PXLG::GUS lines dissected from the seed after 12 h of imbibition, young seedlings grown on agar plates for 5–10 days, or young leaves or flowers from plants germinated on agar plates for 7–10 days and then transplanted to soil for ∼3–4 weeks (under long-day conditions), were stained in GUS staining solution as described by CITATION. For each construct, at least 15 independent lines were examined. cDNAs encoding the N-terminal regions of the XLG proteins (473, 457 and 420 amino acids for XLG1, XLG2 and XLG3, respectively) were fused upstream of GFP encoding sGFP (S65T), a variant of GFP (CITATION), and the full-length XLG cDNAs were fused downstream or upstream of GFP. All constructs were driven by the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION), and were constructed in a modified pUC18 plasmid backbone with a nopaline synthase (Nos) terminator (CITATION). These constructs were transformed into V. faba leaves by biolistic bombardment, as described by CITATION. After an overnight incubation of the leaves on wet filter paper under darkness, abaxial epidermal peels were taken and GFP fluorescence was recorded under blue light illumination with an Olympus BX-60 digital microscope (exciter 480 ± 20 nm, dichroic 505 nm and emitter 535 ± 25 nm; Olympus, http://www.olympus-global.com), or with a Zeiss LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope (488-nm argon laser; 505–530-nm bandpass filter; Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). In order to identify T-DNA insertional mutants of the XLG genes, we first screened both the alpha and BASTA populations of the University of Wisconsin’s T-DNA insertional mutant collections (Krysan et al., 1996, 1999). We also obtained T-DNA insertional lines from the Salk collection (CITATION) through ABRC (http://www.arabidopsis.org/abrc), the Syngenta collection (CITATION) and the GABI-kat collection (CITATION). For the mutants used in this report, xlg1-1 and xlg3-1 are from the Syngenta collection, and xlg2-1 is from the Salk collection. After identification of the T-DNA insertional mutant lines, homozygous lines of these mutants were screened from progeny of the heterozygous mutant lines by PCR genotyping. For each specific T-DNA insertional mutant, two sets of PCRs (36 cycles) were performed using genomic DNA as a template: one with a gene-specific primer and a T-DNA left border primer; the second with two gene-specific primers. The T-DNA left border primers and the two gene-specific primers used for genotyping the three xlg mutant lines are listed in Tables S1 and S2. Single mutant alleles (xlg1-1, xlg2-1 and xlg3-1; Figure 4a) were used to make crosses between two individual mutant lines. The F1 generation of these crosses was allowed to self, and three homozygous double mutants (xlg1-1 xlg2-1, xlg1-1 xlg3-1, xlg2-1 xlg3-1) were identified from the F2 generation by PCR genotyping. The double mutants were used in further crosses for production of triple mutants. The progeny of these crosses were screened for triple mutants by PCR genotyping. The homozygous xlg triple mutant lines were obtained from different combinations of crosses between the double mutants, and all of them showed the same phenotypes. A start codon and a nucleotide sequence encoding a FLAG tag were fused in frame upstream of the XLG3 cDNA. The fusion construct driven by the 35S promoter was then subcloned into binary vector pCGN1547 (CITATION). The XLG2 cDNA was subcloned upstream of the C-terminal FLAG tag of Gateway cloning binary vector pGWB11, and the XLG1 cDNA-GFP construct was subcloned into Gateway cloning binary vector pGWB2. Both the XLG2 and XLG1 complementation constructs were also driven by the 35S promoter. These three XLG complementation constructs were transformed into the xlg triple mutant, and resulting transformants were used for complementation assays. Seeds were surface sterilized and transferred to agar plates [0.8% agar, 1× MS salts (Invitrogen), 1% sucrose, pH 5.7] with various treatments depending on the experiment. These plates were sealed with Parafilm, wrapped in aluminum foil and stored at 4°C for stratification for 2–4 days before transfer to standard long-day conditions in growth chambers. For growth in soil, young seedlings were transplanted into soil (Metro Mix-250) after 7–10 days of growth on agar plates. For growth assays on agar plates in darkness, seeds were treated as above, except plates were wrapped in aluminum foil with the exception of a 1-h light treatment immediately after stratification to promote seed germination. For assays of ABA effects on root growth, seeds were first germinated and grown on agar plates (1% agar, 1× MS salts, 2% sucrose, pH 5.7) in darkness for 4 days, and then robust seedlings were transferred to treatment plates containing various concentrations of ABA (no change in other components), and grown in darkness for 10 more days. For ACC treatment assays, seeds were planted on treatment plates directly and grown in darkness for 2 weeks. For the effects of sugars on root length, MS media was supplemented with indicated concentrations of different sugars, which were the sole source of sugar in the media. For each sugar, Col-0 and xlg triple mutant seedlings were grown side by side on the same plates and root lengths were recorded after 8 days of growth in darkness. Each plate had 12 seedlings per genotype and three duplicate plates were used for each assay. Seed germination assays were performed essentially according to the method of CITATION, in the presence of different concentrations of ABA or in the presence of different sugars. Ten-day-old seedlings of each mutant allele grown on agar plates under long-day conditions were harvested, and total RNA was isolated from these plants using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). For xlg2-1 and xlg3-1, RT-PCRs were performed using two sets of PCR primers: one set of two PCR primers flanking or downstream of the T-DNA insertion; the other set of two PCR primers upstream of the T-DNA insertion (Table S3). Amplification of Actin2 served as a control. XLG transcript levels in the xlg1-1 mutant and the xlg triple mutant were assessed using quantitative real-time RT-PCR (Table S4). Real time RT-PCR was performed as described by CITATION, using Actin2 as a housekeeping gene. Primary roots of seedlings grown in darkness for 2 weeks were incubated in 10 μm FM4-64 (Molecular Probes, http://probes.invitrogen.com) for 2–3 min. The stained samples were then observed under a Zeiss LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope (543-nm HeNe laser; long band pass 560-nm filter). Considering that cell size varies with developmental stage and between layers, only root hair cells were measured so as to guarantee that all measured cells were mature cells from the same layer.
