!~ABS~! Ethylene is an important plant growth regulator perceived by membrane-bound ethylene receptors. The ETR1 ethylene receptor is positively regulated by a predicted membrane protein, RTE1, based on genetic studies in Arabidopsis. RTE1 homologs exist in plants, animals and protists, but the molecular function of RTE1 is unknown. Here, we examine RTE1 expression and subcellular protein localization in order to gain a better understanding of RTE1 and its function in relation to ETR1. Arabidopsis plants transformed with the RTE1 promoter fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene revealed that RTE1 expression partly correlates with previously described sites of ETR1 expression or sites of ethylene response, such as the seedling root, root hairs and apical hook. RTE1 transcript levels are also enhanced by ethylene treatment, and reduced by the inhibition of ethylene signaling. For subcellular localization of RTE1, a functional RTE1 fusion to red fluorescent protein (RFP) was expressed under the control of the native RTE1 promoter. Using fluorescence microscopy, RTE1 was observed primarily at the Golgi apparatus and partially at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in stably transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts, roots and root hairs. Next, a functional ETR1 fusion to a 5xMyc epitope tag was expressed under the control of the native ETR1 promoter. Immunohistochemistry of root hairs not only showed ETR1 residing at the ER as previously reported, but revealed substantial localization of ETR1 at the Golgi apparatus. Lastly, we demonstrated the subcellular co-localization of RTE1 and ETR1. These findings support and enhance the genetic model that RTE1 plays a role in regulating ETR1.
!~RES~! Gene array data indicate that Arabidopsis RTE1 is expressed at detectable levels in most organs and stages, and is up-regulated by ethylene (CITATION; CITATION; http://bbc.botany.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi). Based on gene arrays, RTE1 is most highly expressed in developing seeds and young siliques, with high expression also seen in seedlings and the shoot apex. Using a luciferase reporter, CITATION observed expression of RTE1 in cotyledons, leaves, the rachis and flowers, with lower expression seen in the seedling root and hypocotyl. To further examine RTE1 gene expression, we fused the RTE1 promoter region (consisting of a 2.5 kb genomic DNA fragment just upstream of the RTE1 translation start codon and including the 5′ UTR of RTE1) with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, and transformed the resulting construct into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium infiltration. The expression pattern of RTE1 was observed by staining for GUS activity in the transgenic lines. As shown in Figure 1, there is strong expression of RTE1 in 1–4-day-old seedlings in the apical hook, cotyledons, root vascular tissue, root tip and root hairs, with little or no expression in the hypocotyl. The pattern of expression was similar in dark- and light-grown seedlings (Figure 1a–d). In light-grown seedlings, expression could also be seen in the apex and young leaves (Figure 1d,g,i), and disappeared from the cotyledons by 10 days (Figure 1i). In mature plants, RTE1 was expressed in floral buds (Figure 1j), the style of mature flowers (Figure 1k), stems and the rachis (not shown). [[FIGURE]] To analyze the effect of ethylene treatment on RTE1 expression, we examined the GUS staining pattern of etiolated seedlings germinated in the presence of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC). We also examined the effect of AgNO3 (an inhibitor of the ethylene response; CITATION), as well as the effect on expression when the reporter construct was transformed into the ethylene-insensitive etr1-1 mutant background. Etiolated seedlings responding to ethylene or ACC treatment display the ‘triple response’ phenotype, which consists of shortening and radial swelling of the hypocotyl, inhibition of root growth, proliferation of root hairs and an exaggerated apical hook, whereas seedlings treated with AgNO3 or in the etr1-1 background have longer hypocotyls and roots (CITATION). Based on a qualitative assessment of GUS staining, RTE1 transcript levels in comparison to untreated seedlings were enhanced by ACC and reduced by AgNO3 and etr1-1, although the pattern itself was unaltered by the treatments (Figure 1l–w). These results suggest that there is a negative feedback mechanism in ethylene signaling via regulation of RTE1 expression, as RTE1 is a negative regulator of ethylene responses. Using antiserum raised against an RTE1 peptide, we detected RTE1 in the microsomal fraction of protein extracts from Arabidopsis seedlings, confirming the prediction that RTE1 is localized at the membrane (data not shown). It was not feasible, however, to use this antiserum to determine the subcellular localization of RTE1, because Western blots showed cross-reaction with numerous non-specific bands. In order to detect the RTE1 protein, we therefore created a reporter fusion to RTE1. To construct the reporter, the open reading frame of red fluorescence protein (RFP) was fused in-frame to the RTE1 sequence at the N- or C-terminus of RTE1 (Figure 2a). Each fusion was placed under the control of the native RTE1 promoter region (identical to that used in the GUS expression analysis) and cloned into the binary transformation vector pMLBart to create RFP–RTE1 and RTE1–RFP, respectively. To test the functionality of RFP–RTE1 and RTE1–RFP in planta, the constructs were stably transformed into the double mutant etr1-2 rte1-3 to test for rescue of the rte1-3 mutation. Five independent transgenic lines of each construct were examined for the ability to restore ethylene insensitivity in etr1-2 rte1-3 (by alleviating rte1-3 suppression of etr1-2). For the RFP–RTE1 construct, all five lines exhibited substantial rescue of the rte1-3 mutation based on the seedling triple response, indicating that RTE1 carrying an N-terminal RFP tag retains substantial function (Figure 2b). For the other construct, none of the five lines rescued rte1-3 to the same extent as the RFP–RTE1 construct (Figure 2b). Therefore, all subsequent analyses of the RTE1 protein were performed using RFP–RTE1, in which RFP is fused at the N-terminus of RTE1. [[FIGURE]] To determine the intracellular localization of RTE1, protoplasts were prepared from wild-type plants that had been stably transformed with the RFP–RTE1 construct, and then various GFP-tagged organelle markers were transiently expressed in the protoplasts to compare their localization patterns with those of RFP–RTE1. The markers were: GFP–HDEL (ER), ST–GFP (Golgi), GmMan1(tTMsC)–GFP (cis-Golgi), GFP–δTIP (vacuole), GFP–CPK9 (plasma membrane), GFP–SKL (peroxisome), COX4ts–GFP (mitochondria) and cp targeting signal–YFP (plastid). Using confocal laser scanning microscopy, we examined at least 20 protoplasts expressing each marker. Substantial co-localization of RFP–RTE1 with the Golgi and cis-Golgi markers was detected, in addition to partial co-localization with the ER marker (Figure 3a–c). There was potentially some slight co-localization with the vacuole marker (Figure 3d). In contrast, we did not detect co-localization of RFP–RTE1 with GFP-tagged markers for the plasma membrane, peroxisome, mitochondria or plastid (Figure 3e–h). These results suggest that RTE1 in protoplasts localizes primarily to the Golgi apparatus and partially to the ER. [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm the Golgi and ER localization, we examined the localization of RFP–RTE1 in planta. For this, we stably transformed GFP–HDEL (ER) and ST–GFP (Golgi) into wild-type Arabidopsis, and then crossed the resulting transformants to the above RFP–RTE1 transformants. The F1 were allowed to self-pollinate, and several F2 progeny were analyzed for the presence of both RFP–RTE1 and the ER or Golgi marker. We examined fluorescence in seedling root cells, which were easy to access and because GUS staining had been pronounced in the seedling root. Confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that RFP–RTE1 co-localized well with the Golgi marker in both root cells and root hair cells, consistent with the Golgi apparatus localization in protoplasts (Figure 4a,c). There also appeared to be partial co-localization with the ER marker. The RFR–RTE1 signal was more punctate (thus more Golgi-like) than that of the ER marker (Figure 4b,d). [[FIGURE]] To test whether ethylene affects the subcellular localization of RTE1, we compared the localization pattern of RFP–RTE1 with that of the GFP–HDEL and ST–GFP markers in roots of 2–4-day-old etiolated seedlings germinated in the presence and absence of the ethylene precursor ACC. No change was detected in the localization of RFP–RTE1 resulting from ACC treatment (data not shown). Next, we were interested in investigating whether ETR1 and RTE1 share similar subcellular localization. To visualize the localization of RTE1 and ETR1, we initially prepared protoplasts from the leaves of RFP–RTE1 transgenic plants and transfected the protoplasts with a construct that expressed ETR1 fused to a C-terminal CFP tag. The ETR1–CFP fusion yielded only weak fluorescence, however (data not shown). To increase the sensitivity for detection of ETR1, we switched to a 5xMyc epitope tag fused at the C-terminus of ETR1. The ETR1–5xMyc fusion was expressed under the control of the native ETR1 promoter region (comprising 3.2 kb upstream of the ETR1 translation start site) (Figure 5a). We determined that the ETR1–5xMyc fusion construct possessed wild-type ETR1 activity by transforming it into the etr1 etr2 ein4 triple null mutant, which has a constitutive ethylene-response phenotype (Huo and Meyerowitz, 1998). We examined five independent transgenic lines, and found that the triple null phenotype was rescued to the less severe etr2 ein4 double null mutant phenotype (Figure 5b). In all subsequent analyses with the ETR1 protein, the ETR1–5xMyc construct was stably transformed into either the etr1-7 null mutant or wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] To ensure that the ETR1–5xMyc fusion protein was intact in the transformed lines, we isolated protein from the transformed plants and visualized the protein on a Western blot using an anti-Myc antibody. The results consistently showed a single band of the correct monomer size on a Western blot of a denaturing PAGE gel (Figure 5c). There was also a single band of the predicted molecular weight for the dimer under non-denaturing conditions (data not shown). Occasionally, a single non-specific background band of smaller size was detected, whether or not the samples carried the ETR1–5xMyc protein (Figure 5c). Given that the anti-Myc antibody detected an intact fusion protein, we proceeded with immunohistochemistry of root hair cells of plants that had been stably transformed with ETR1–5xMyc. The GFP–HDEL and ST–GFP marker constructs (used above) were transformed into the ETR1–5xMyc lines to generate separate lines expressing ETR1–5xMyc with each marker. Notably, substantial co-localization of ETR1–5xMyc was observed with the Golgi marker (Figure 6a), and partial co-localization was also seen with the ER marker (Figure 6b). No signal was observed in root hair cells of untransformed seedlings that were fixed and treated in parallel with the anti-Myc antibody, indicating that the background band seen in the Western blot was not detected by this method (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Finally, we examined whether RTE1 co-localizes with the ETR1 receptor. To obtain Arabidopsis plants harboring both RFP–RTE1 and ETR1–5xMyc, we crossed the individual transformants (above) together, and allowed the resulting F1 to self-pollinate to produce F2 seeds. Whole roots from 4-day-old F2 seedlings were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using a monoclonal anti-Myc antibody. The immunolocalization of ETR1–5xMyc, as well as RFP fluorescence from RFP–RTE1, was viewed in root hair cells by confocal laser scanning microscopy. As shown in Figure 7, co-localization of RTE1 and ETR1 was observed. No antibody signal was detected in root hair cells of approximately one fourth of the segregating F2s indicating the absence of non-specific background signal for this method (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants [ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were grown in soil under a 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod in a controlled environment chamber at 20°C under white fluorescent light 100 μmol m−2 s−1. For seedling growth, seeds were sown on MS plates containing 0.8% agar. After stratification for 3 days at 4°C, the seeds were incubated at 20°C either under continuous light or in the dark for the indicated lengths of time. Transgenic plants were generated by the floral dip infiltration method (CITATION) mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. To select for transformed plants, we used either hygromycin (250 mg l−1) or Basta (0.1% Finale™ [Bayer Crop Science; http://www.bayercropscience.com] sprayed onto seedlings), depending on the binary vector used. The triple response assay was performed as described previously (CITATION) using the stated concentrations of ACC or AgNO3 in the medium. To construct the RTE1promoter–GUS fusion, a DNA fragment containing the RTE1 promoter region (2485 bp upstream from the RTE1 start codon, which includes the intron located in the RTE1 5′ UTR) was PCR-amplified from Arabidopsis wild-type genomic DNA using the primers 5′-GGATGATGTGATCACCATCG-3′ and 5′-TTTTAGATTCCTAATCACACAAGAC-3′. The PCR product was cloned into the pCR8/GW/TOPO TA cloning plasmid vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) and verified by nucleotide sequencing. Using the Gateway recombination system (Invitrogen), the RTE1 promoter region was inserted upstream of the GUS reporter gene in binary vector pBGWFS7 (CITATION). To generate constructs encoding RFP-tagged RTE1 fusion proteins, the RFP coding sequence was PCR-amplified from pDSRed2-C1 kindly provided by Biao Ding (Ohio State University). For the eventual fusion of RFP at the N-terminus of RTE1, primers 5′-CCTAGGATGGCCTCCTCCGAGAACGTC-3′ and 5′-GCTAGCTCTAGATCCGGTGGATCCCGG-3′ were used to PCR-amplify the RFP coding sequence, eliminating the stop codon and incorporating an AvrII restriction site at the 5′ end and a BmtI restriction site at the 3′ end. For the eventual fusion of RFP at the C-terminus of RTE1, primers 5′-CCTAGGATGGCCTCCTCCGAGAACGTC-3′ and 5′-GCTAGCTTATCTAGATCCGGTGGATCC-3′ were used to PCR-amplify the RFP coding sequence, incorporating an AvrII restriction site at the 5′ end and a BmtI restriction site at the 3′ end. The resulting fragments were cloned into pGEM-T Easy (Promega, http://www.promega.com/) and verified by nucleotide sequencing. The clones were designated pGEM-NT-RFP and pGEM-CT-RFP, respectively. For the N-terminal RFP tag on RTE1, primers 5′-CCTAGGTTGGATGATGTGATCACCATCG-3′ and 5′-CCTAGGTTTTAGATTCCTAATCACACAAGAC-3′ were used to PCR-amplify a 2487 bp fragment from genomic DNA encompassing the RTE1 promoter region and 5′ UTR, incorporating flanking AvrII restriction sites. Primers 5′-GCTAGCATGTCACGTGGAAGAGGAGTTCC-3′ and 5′-GCTAGCTCACTGTTGGTACAACTTTGTGG-3′ were used to PCR-amplify a 1298 bp fragment from genomic DNA encompassing the coding sequence of RTE1 and the terminator region, incorporating flanking BmtI restriction sites. The amplified fragments were cloned separately into pGEM-T Easy and verified by nucleotide sequencing. The fragments were released and ligated in succession into the respective AvrII and BmtI sites of pGEM-NT-RFP. For the C-terminal RFP tag on RTE1, primers 5′-CCTAGGTTGGATGATGTGATCACCATCG-3′ and 5′-CCTAGGAGTAATTATGTTCTTAAAACAGTAAC-3′ were used to PCR-amplify a 3351 bp fragment from genomic DNA, encompassing the RTE1 promoter region through to the end of the RTE1 coding sequence, eliminating the stop codon and incorporating flanking AvrII restriction sites. Primers 5′-GCTAGCAGCAGTATGAGAGAAAT-3′ and 5′-GCTAGCTCACTGTTGGTACAACTTTGTGG-3′ were used to PCR-amplify a 431 bp fragment from genomic DNA, encompassing the 3′ UTR and terminator region of RTE1 and incorporating flanking BmtI restriction sites. These amplified fragments were cloned separately into pGEM-T Easy and verified by nucleotide sequencing. The AvrII and BmtI fragments were released and ligated in succession into the respective AvrII and BmtI sites of pGEM-CT-RFP. Finally, the composite fragments for both the C-terminal and N-terminal RFP fusions to RTE1 were released with NotI and ligated into the NotI site of the binary vector pMLBart (CITATION), which contains the bar gene for the selection of stably transformed plants. To generate the ETR1–5xMyc construct, a 3.9 kb PstI–BstXI genomic DNA fragment containing the ETR1 promoter region (3167 bp upstream from the ETR1 start codon including the native intron located in the 5′ UTR) plus 733 bp of the ETR1 coding sequence was cloned into plasmid pBJ36 (CITATION) just upstream of the 3′ UTR OCS terminator sequence. Just downstream of this ETR1 fragment, we inserted a 1593 bp BstXI–BamHI ETR1 cDNA fragment (including the stop codon and 25 bp of the ETR1 3′ UTR). Next, a fragment of approximately 400 bp containing the 3′ end of the ETR1 coding region was PCR-amplified, replacing the stop codon with StuI–BamHI restriction sites. After digesting the fragment with both AflII (a natural internal site in the ETR1 coding sequence) and BamHI, the fragment was used to replace the AflII–BamHI fragment of the above construct (in which the BamHI site was located just after the ETR1 stop codon). An StuI–StuI DNA fragment containing five copies of the Myc epitope (5xMyc) followed by a stop codon (from clone CD3-128; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University) was then cloned in-frame into the introduced StuI site. The clone was verified by nucleotide sequencing, and then the entire composite gene including the OCS terminator was released with NotI and ligated into the NotI site of the binary vector pMLBart for stable plant transformation. The established fluorescent protein markers used in this study were GFP–HDEL (pVKH18En6-mGFPer) for the ER (CITATION), ST–GFP (pVKH18En6-STtmd-GFP) for the Golgi apparatus (CITATION), GmMan1(tTMsC)–GFP (pAN33) for the cis-Golgi (CITATION), GFP–CPK9 for the plasma membrane (CITATION), GFP–δTIP for the vacuole (CITATION), GFP–SKL (pAN81) for the peroxisome (CITATION), COX4ts–GFP (pAN107) for the mitochondria (CITATION), and cp targeting signal–YFP (pAN186) for the plastid (CITATION). Transient gene expression in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was carried out as described previously (CITATION). In brief, Arabidopsis protoplasts were isolated from the leaves of 25-day-old plants (10 h light/14 h dark, 22°C day/20°C night) that had been stably transformed with RFP–RTE1. Leaf strips were digested in a buffer containing cellulose R-10 and macerozyme R-10 (Yakult Pharmaceutical; http://www.yakult.co.jp). An equal volume of protoplasts was mixed with PEG buffer (40% PEG4000 (Sigma; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), 20% 1 m mannitol, 10% 1 m CaCl2) after adding 60–120 μg of plasmid marker DNA, and then incubated at room temperature for 30 min. After gentle washing, the protoplasts were kept in the dark at room temperature overnight, and then viewed by confocal laser scanning microscopy as described below. GUS staining was carried out as previously described (CITATION). Images of GUS-stained plants were obtained using a Nikon SMZ1000 dissecting microscope or a Nikon Eclipse E600 microscope (Nikon; http://www.nikon-instruments.jp) using differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy. For immunohistochemistry of ETR1–5xMyc, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown under white light and prepared essentially as described by CITATION. In brief, 5-day-old light-grown seedlings were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in MTSB (50 mm PIPES, 5 mm EGTA, 5 mm MgSO4, pH 7, adjusted with KOH) for 1 h. Samples were washed with MTSB/0.1% Triton (5–10 min) and with de-ionized water (5–10 min). Cell walls were digested with 1% cellulase and 0.1% maceroenzyme in MTSB for 30 min, and then samples were washed with MTSB/0.1% Triton (5–10 min). Incubation with 10% DMSO/3% NP-40 in MTSB for 1 h followed. After another washing in MTSB/0.1% Triton (5–10 min), seedlings were pre-incubated in 2% BSA/MTSB (1 h at 37°C), and then incubated overnight (4°C) with the primary antibody, which was mouse monoclonal anti-c-Myc antibody (Invitrogen) at 1:200 dilution. After extensive washing with MTSB/0.1% Triton (8–10 min), the seedlings were incubated with a 1:500 dilution of the appropriate secondary antibody in 3% BSA/MTSB (3 h at 37°C). The secondary antibody for co-localization with the GFP-tagged ER and Golgi markers was Alexa Fluor 633 goat anti-mouse IgG (H+L) (Invitrogen). For co-localization with RFP–RTE1, the secondary antibody was Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse IgG (H+L) (Invitrogen). The samples were washed with MTSB/0.1% Triton (5–10 min, then overnight) and transferred into VectaShield mounting medium (Vector Laboratories; http://www.vectorlabs.com). Imaging of fluorescent proteins in protoplasts or seedling roots was conducted under a laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss LSM510, http://www.zeiss.com/). The excitation wavelengths for GFP (or YFP) and RFP were 488 and 543 nm, respectively, and the emission filter wavelengths were 505–530 nm for GFP 505–550 nm for YFP and 560–615 nm for RFP. Protoplasts were directly mounted on a glass slide in buffer solution (0.5 m mannitol, 4 mm MES, pH 5.7, 20 mm KCl), and seedling root fragments were mounted in water for visualization of the fluorescent proteins. For immunohistochemistry imaging of ETR1–5xMyc using Alexa Fluor 633, the excitation and emission wavelengths were 633 and 650 nm, respectively. For immunohistochemistry imaging of ETR1–5xMyc using Alexa Fluor 488, the same confocal microscopy settings were used as for GFP. For isolation of Arabidopsis membranes, 8-day-old etiolated seedlings were homogenized at 4°C in extraction buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl, 10 mm EDTA and 20% v/v glycerol) containing a protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). The homogenate was strained through Miracloth (Calbiochem-Novabiochem; http://www.emdbiosciences.com) and centrifuged at 8000 g for 15 min. The supernatant was centrifuged at 100 000 g for 30 min, and the membrane pellet resuspended in 10 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA and 10% v/v glycerol with protease inhibitors. Immunoblot analysis was performed as described by CITATION. In brief, membrane proteins were treated with 100 mm DTT at 37°C for 1 h and then fractionated by SDS–PAGE on an 8% w/v polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, proteins were electroblotted to a supported nitrocellulose membrane (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/). To detect ETR1–5xMyc, a 1:1000 dilution of the primary rabbit polyclonal anti-myc antibody (Sigma) was used, followed by a 1:5000 dilution of the goat anti-rabbit HRP secondary antibody (Pierce; http://www.piercenet.com). For the ECA1 protein loading control, we used an anti-ECA1 antibody (CITATION) kindly provided by Heven Sze. Immunodecorated proteins were visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence detection using the SuperSignal West femto maximum sensitivity kit (Pierce Chemical).
