!~ABS~! Calcium (Ca) and manganese (Mn) are essential nutrients required for normal plant growth and development, and transport processes play a key role in regulating their cellular levels. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains four P2A-type ATPase genes, AtECA1 to AtECA4, which are expressed in all major organs of Arabidopsis. To elucidate the physiological role of AtECA2 and AtECA3 in Arabidopsis, several independent T-DNA insertion mutant alleles were isolated. When grown on medium lacking Mn, eca3 mutants, but not eca2 mutants, displayed a striking difference from wild-type plants. After approximately 8 to 9 d on this medium, eca3 mutants became chlorotic, and root and shoot growth were strongly inhibited compared to wild-type plants. These severe deficiency symptoms were suppressed by low levels of Mn, indicating a crucial role for ECA3 in Mn nutrition in Arabidopsis. eca3 mutants were also more sensitive than wild-type plants and eca2 mutants on medium lacking Ca; however, the differences were not so striking because in this case all plants were severely affected. ECA3 partially restored the growth defect on high Mn of the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) pmr1 mutant, which is defective in a Golgi Ca/Mn pump (PMR1), and the yeast K616 mutant (Δpmc1 Δpmr1 Δcnb1), defective in Golgi and vacuolar Ca/Mn pumps. ECA3 also rescued the growth defect of K616 on low Ca. Promoter:β-glucuronidase studies show that ECA3 is expressed in a range of tissues and cells, including primary root tips, root vascular tissue, hydathodes, and guard cells. When transiently expressed in Nicotiana tabacum, an ECA3-yellow fluorescent protein fusion protein showed overlapping expression with the Golgi protein GONST1. We propose that ECA3 is important for Mn and Ca homeostasis, possibly functioning in the transport of these ions into the Golgi. ECA3 is the first P-type ATPase to be identified in plants that is required under Mn-deficient conditions.
!~RES~! AtECA3 from ecotype ‘Columbia-0’ contains an open reading frame of 998 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 109.062 kD. It is identical to the sequence predicted from genome sequencing (The Arabidopsis Information Resource; http://arabdopsis.org), but differs from the ECA3 sequence (AJ132388) that we cloned previously from ‘Landsberg erecta’ (CITATION) in four bases: A336G, T453A, T1647G, and C2934T. In the ECA3 sequence from ‘Landsberg erecta’, the second- and fourth-base changes are silent, but the first and third give changes in the amino acid sequence: R46G and S549R. Conpred II, a consensus prediction method for obtaining transmembrane (TM) topology models (http://bioinfo.si.hirosaki-u.ac.jp/∼ConPred2), indicates that AtECA3 contains 10 TM domains, a small cytoplasmic loop between TMs 2 and 3 and a large cytoplasmic loop between TMs 4 and 5. The latter contains the highly conserved phosphorylation domain CSDKTGTLT, which includes the phosphorylated Asp residue (Asp-347 for AtECA3) that is phosphorylated during the reaction cycle in all P-type ATPases. This model is consistent with structural models that have been presented for the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase from animal cells (CITATION). To determine the physiological function of ECA2 and ECA3, we obtained mutant lines in which ECA2 and ECA3 were likely to be functionally disrupted. We isolated two independent mutant alleles for each (eca2-1, eca2-2, eca3-1, and eca3-2). These T-DNA insertion alleles were identified using the reverse-genetics approach outlined in “Materials and Methods.” Figure 1A illustrates genotyping of plants from the Salk line 045567; Figure 1B shows that, for each particular mutant, no product with the appropriate gene-specific primers could be detected in reverse-transcribed cDNA from plants homozygous for the insert. Figure 1C and Table I summarize the T-DNA insertion positions in the resulting mutant alleles and indicate where in the protein the insertion would occur. The position of the inserts in each of the mutants means that these are predicted loss-of-function mutants. [[FIGURE]] eca mutant alleles identified in this study Introns and exons are numbered so that the first exon begins with the start ATG and is followed by the first intron. To elucidate the biological function of ECA2 and ECA3 in Arabidopsis, we monitored insertion mutants under a wide range of conditions comparing their growth and development to wild-type plants. When grown on soil, no major differences from wild-type plants were observed (Supplemental Fig. S1). Because eca1-1 mutants were previously shown to be extremely retarded when grown on low-Ca medium (0.2 mm; CITATION), eca2 and eca3 mutants were tested in this range. At basal levels of Ca (1.5 mm), eca3-1, eca3-2, eca2-1, and eca2-2 mutants were similar in their fresh weight and chlorophyll content to wild-type plants; results are shown only for fresh weight for eca2-1 and eca3-1 (Fig. 2A ). In contrast to results reported previously for eca1-1 mutants (CITATION), eca2 and eca3 mutants were no more retarded in growth than wild-type plants at low Ca (in this case, 0.1 mm). We next tested whether there was a difference in the growth of the mutants when Ca was omitted from the medium. Under these conditions, both wild-type and mutant seedlings were adversely affected (Fig. 2B). They became chlorotic and stopped growing at an early stage. In general, both eca3 mutants were slightly more sensitive than wild-type and eca2 mutants, but in this experiment only eca3-1 was significantly lower in fresh weight (P < 0.05; Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] eca1-1 mutants were previously shown to be more adversely affected in growth on high (0.5 mm) Mn medium (CITATION). We found no difference in the response of eca2 and eca3 mutants to this level of Mn compared to wild-type plants (data not shown). Therefore, we investigated whether the mutants showed any responses under Mn-deficient conditions. A striking difference was observed in the eca3 mutants compared to eca2 and wild type when grown on medium with Mn omitted (Fig. 3 ). Under these conditions, eca3 mutants showed a marked reduction in growth, which first became apparent after approximately 8 to 9 d. Both root and shoot growth were reduced (Fig. 3, A and B). In addition, the cotyledons became yellow and the marked reduction in chlorophyll is indicated in Figure 3B. There were some interesting features observed when individual seedlings were examined closely (Fig. 3A; Supplemental Fig. S2). In some seedlings, dark areas were seen at the tips of developing leaves (Supplemental Fig. S2). On leaves where the lamina was expanding, a brown band was often observed across the petiole or lamina with bleaching occurring distal to the band. In many cases, the leaf lamina failed to expand further and senescing areas were observed. When leaves did develop, these and the expanded cotyledons were seen to bleach. Addition of Mn to the medium at a concentration of around 1 μm was sufficient to suppress these phenotypes (Fig. 4 ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The response of Arabidopsis mutants to other ion deficiencies was also investigated. When Zn was omitted from the growth medium, there was no significant difference in the performance of the eca3 (Fig. 5A ) or eca2 mutants (data not shown) compared to wild type. eca3 mutants were inhibited in their growth to the same extent as wild type and there were no significant differences in terms of fresh weight of shoot or chlorophyll content. Omission of iron (Fe) from the medium had a marked effect on growth and chlorophyll content of all plants, but there was no specific detrimental effect on the mutants compared to wild-type plants (Fig. 5B). Omitting copper (Cu) from the medium also had no specific effect on mutants compared to wild type (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] Because the eca3 mutants showed a clear phenotype under Mn-deficient conditions, Mn content was determined under nutrient-sufficient (basal; 50 μm Mn) and Mn-deficient (0 μm Mn) conditions. The levels observed in each genotype are shown in Figure 6 . To make this clearer, the level relative to the wild type (expressed as a percentage) is shown in Supplemental Figure S3, with the level in the wild type (100%) indicated as a dashed line. Despite the marked differences observed in the growth phenotype of eca3 mutants compared to wild-type plants when grown under Mn-deficient conditions, there were no major differences in metal content changes when eca3 mutants and wild-type plants were compared. Generally, Mn content of eca3 mutants was slightly lower than wild-type plants under both conditions (i.e. basal Mn supplied and Mn omitted). Ca content was slightly higher under both conditions in the eca3 mutants compared to wild-type plants and Zn was similar or slightly lower (Fig. 6). Again, for both Ca and Zn, there was little difference in the response to reducing the Mn concentration in the medium of eca3 mutants compared to wild-type plants. We cannot rule out that extended growth under Mn-deficient conditions could lead to metal content changes, but we chose a point at which the symptoms, although apparent, were not too severe. [[FIGURE]] Semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was used to determine whether ECAs were present in various organs of hydroponically grown Arabidopsis. Primers designed to regions of AtECA1 to AtECA4 amplified products of 127, 325, 279, and 127 bp, respectively (Fig. 7A ). Amplification of a 122-bp product with primers to the constitutively expressed ribosomal protein S16, a component of the 40S subunit (CITATION), was used as a control. Transcripts for all ECAs are present in all major organs (Fig. 7A). Results for ECA2 and ECA3 are consistent with data from publicly available microarray studies (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch; CITATION), which also show that these genes are expressed in all major organs (Fig. 7B). Expression of ECA1 and ECA4 cannot be determined from microarray analysis because the probe sets are not distinct. [[FIGURE]] To confirm these results and obtain further information about the tissue-specific expression of ECA3 within the different plant organs, a GUS reporter gene was cloned under the control of the promoter region for ECA3. GUS staining of seedlings showed high expression levels in guard cells, hydathodes, and the vascular tissue in leaves (Fig. 8 ). In primary roots, high levels of expression were seen at the root tip and vascular system. Transverse sections of roots showed high GUS activity in the stele, particularly in pericycle and xylem parenchyma cells. Staining was also observed in developing lateral roots and tip and vascular staining was seen in more mature lateral roots. Strong staining was also found in different flower tissues, including stamens, petals, and sepals, as well as in siliques (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] Some metal transporters are regulated at the transcriptional level by the metals they transport. For example, AtHMA4, a Zn-transporting ATPase, is up-regulated by elevated levels of Zn (CITATION; CITATION), and the Fe transporter IRT1 is up-regulated under Fe-deficient conditions (CITATION). Others, such as MTP1/ZAT, show no obvious regulation by metals at the level of transcription (CITATION). Real-time PCR was performed to determine whether expression of ECA2 and ECA3 changed under conditions of metal deficiency. Root and shoot expression levels of ECA2 and ECA3 relative to the S16 component of ribosomal 40S are shown for seedlings grown on basal medium (control) or in the absence of either Mn or Zn (Fig. 9 ). There were no significant differences in the expression of either gene when grown under these conditions. For a comparison, we measured expression levels of the transporter ZIP4 and in this case there was marked up-regulation under Zn-deficient conditions as reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of ECA3, fusions with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) were generated. Transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) epidermal cells followed by confocal laser-scanning microscopy revealed small motile organelles characteristic of Golgi (Fig. 10 ). There was a high level of colocalization with the Golgi protein GONST1 (CITATION) visualized using GONST1-GFP fusions. [[FIGURE]] Heterologous expression in yeast has been used in a number of studies to functionally characterize animal and plant transporters. The K616 (Δpmr1, Δpmc1, and Δcnb1) yeast mutant is defective in endogenous Ca/Mn pumps and has been very useful in functional analysis of plant Ca pumps (CITATION; CITATION). Growth of K616 yeast is inhibited in the presence of elevated Mn or Zn in the medium (CITATION). ECA3 rescues K616 on high Zn, restoring growth almost to the level of control K601 cells (Fig. 11A ). ECA3 also partially restored growth of K616 on elevated Mn, but not to the extent of the K601 cells. Increased sensitivity to elevated Mn concentrations is also observed in the pmr1 mutant (CITATION) and ECA3 reduced this growth defect compared to vector controls (Fig. 11C). K616 vector transformants are also unable to grow on medium containing reduced levels of Ca (i.e. in the presence of EGTA). ECA3 suppresses the EGTA-sensitive phenotype, allowing growth in the presence of EGTA to levels similar to those seen in the control K601 strain (Fig. 11B). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ‘Columbia-8’) were sterilized in 10% (v/v) bleach for 20 min, rinsed five times with sterile water, and inoculated onto plates containing 0.8% (w/v) agarose (Melford), 1% (w/v) Suc, and either one-half-strength (0.5×) Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) or the same medium but with Ca levels reduced from 1.5 mm to 0.1 mm (0.5× Murashige and Skoog*). For experiments investigating the effect of Mn deficiency on phenotype, Mn was omitted from the 0.5× Murashige and Skoog* medium. Seeds were stratified at 4°C for 48 h prior to transfer to a controlled-environment cabinet (23°C, 16 h light; 18°C, 8 h dark) and plates were incubated vertically or horizontally as indicated. To examine the development of the plants to maturity, seeds were sown in soil (one part Levingtons F5 no. 2; one part John Innes no. 2; one part Vermiperl-graded horticultural vermiculite, medium grade) sterilized by autoclaving at 121°C for 15 min at 1 bar pressure, and plants were grown in a controlled-environment cabinet (22°C, 16 h light; 20°C, 8 h dark cycle) or under glasshouse conditions. To obtain organ material from mature plants for gene expression analysis, plants were grown hydroponically as described previously (CITATION). Fresh-weight and chlorophyll measurements were determined using seedlings grown on five separate plates, each plate having six wild-type seedlings and six mutant seedlings. The data presented are generally the means from the five plates ±se expressed on a per-seedling basis. Student's t test (paired) was used to determine significant differences between mutant and wild-type plants and an asterisk (*) indicates a significant difference (P < 0.05). Chlorophyll was determined following extraction in N,N-dimethylformamide (CITATION). Shoots and roots were harvested separately from plants grown on agarose plates (see above). Plant samples were dried for 2 d at 70°C and weighed. Samples were digested at 120°C in 0.5 mL of 65% nitric acid for 4 h. After the solution was cooled, it was diluted to 10 mL with deionized water and metal content was determined by atomic absorption. Total RNA was extracted from different plant organs (roots, leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques) of hydroponically grown plants and from root and shoot tissue from plants grown on agarose plates (see above) using a phenol-SDS extraction and LiCl precipitation method based on CITATION. RNA was checked for purity, integrity, and quantity using RNA gel electrophoresis and spectrophotometry (CITATION). First-strand cDNA synthesis using 2 μg of total RNA was carried out using SuperScript RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions with an oligo(dT)12-18 primer. The expression pattern of AtECA1 to AtECA4 was determined by semiquantitative RT-PCR using primers designed to specifically amplify parts of each sequence: AtECA1 and AtECA4 forward primer, 5′-GCTACCGCTACTCACCTCGC-3′; AtECA1 reverse primer, 5′-CCAACGCCGAGGTAAGTAAC-3′; AtECA4 reverse primer, 5′-GCAAGGATGAGTAAAGCAACAA-3′; AtECA2 forward primer, 5′-TAGGGACGAGGAAAATGG-3′, and reverse primer, 5′-GCTCTAAACAACTTCCCTTC-3′; and AtECA3 forward primer, 5′-GCTATGACAGTACTTGTTGTTG-3′, and reverse primer, 5′-GCCTGTATTTCTAGAGAGGA-3′. Control PCR was performed using primers to S16 ribosomal gene (40S component): forward primer, 5′-ACGCCATCCGTCAGAGTATC-3′; and reverse primer, 5′-CGCCACAAGCAGAGTCCTAT-3′. Products were amplified using Biomix Taq (Bioline) and cycles were chosen that were in the exponential phase of PCR amplification. Primers were used at a final concentration of 0.2 μm. PCR conditions were 94°C for 2 min, the required number of cycles of 94°C for 30 s, then 65°C (ECA1), 52°C (ECA2), or 60°C (ECA3, ECA4) or 56°C (S16) for 1 min, then 72°C for 1 min. Amplified DNA was separated on 1.2% (w/v) agarose gels and visualized using ethidium bromide. A similar procedure was used for real-time PCR, but using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase and oligo(dT)20 primers (Invitrogen). The same primer pairs were used for S16 (reference gene) and ECA3, and the primer pair 5′-TAGGACCATCGCGTTTGAGAAC-3′ (forward) with 5′-TCTCCATGGTGGCATCGTTAAG-3′ (reverse) was used for ECA2. Real-time PCR reactions were performed in a 96-well plate using a Chromo 4 thermal cycler (MJ Research) with the Opticon Monitor III program. SYBR Green (Finnzymes) was used to monitor cDNA amplification. For data evaluation, target gene expression was normalized to reference gene expression by an efficiency-calibrated method using the equation , where E is PCR efficiency (2 is optimal) and Ct is the number of PCR cycles before the signal reaches the threshold level (CITATION). AtECA3 from Arabidopsis ‘Columbia-0’ was cloned in two overlapping parts as initial attempts to amplify full-length cDNA failed. The 5′ part was amplified from clone RZL01a05 (AV554735/AV545775) obtained from Kazusa DNA Research Institute (CITATION) using the primers ECA3.F (5′-GCGGATCCAAACCCTTGGCTTTTCCAAC-3′) and ECA3-5′.R (5′-CATCCCATTGCTGTCAAAGACGGTACCTT-3′). The ECA3.F primer introduced a BamHI site, allowing the product to be cut with BamHI, and at an EcoRI site within the ECA3 sequence for ligation into the same sites of p426 (CITATION) giving p426-5′-ECA3. The 3′ part of ECA3 was amplified from reverse-transcribed RNA from leaf tissue using the primers ECA3-3′.F (5′-TGATGTCGGTGTCTAAGATATGTGT-3′) and ECA3.HR (5′-CGAAGCTTCGAAAAAGCCATCTCTTGCT-3′) and cloned into pGEMTe. The primer ECA3-3′.F overlaps the end of the 5′ part and the ECA3.HR primer introduced a HindIII site, allowing the ECA3 3′ fragment to be excised with EcoRI and HindIII and ligated into the same sites of p426-5′-ECA3 to produce the full-length ECA3 cDNA in p426 (p426-ECA3). Sequencing of the final product confirmed that the full-length ECA3 was identical to the sequence predicted from genome sequencing. The GenBank accession number for ECA3 cloned in this study is EU082212. Gateway technology was used to produce the YFP-ECA3 construct. ECA3 cDNA was PCR amplified from the p426-ECA3 construct and integrated into the pENTR-TOPO vector by TOPO cloning (Invitrogen). ECA3 was then subcloned into the pEarleyGate 104 destination vector (CITATION), which attaches YFP in-frame to the N terminus of ECA3. For tissue-specific expression studies, 1.5 kb of the 5′-untranslated region for ECA3 was amplified by high-fidelity PCR with primers 2548 (5′-CACCGTGTACAGTTGTATAGTTTACCAAC-3′) and 2549 (5′-GTTGGAAAAGCCAAGGGTTTCTG-3′). The PCR product was cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) using Gateway technology and transferred to plasmid pMDC162 (CITATION) to generate a construct containing the open reading frame for a GUS reporter gene under the control of the ECA3 promoter region. The K616 yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain (MATα pmr1∷HIS3 pmc1∷TRP1 cnb1∷LEU2, ura3; CITATION) was transformed with p426-ECA3 or p426 vector alone using a Li-acetate method based on CITATION. Yeast transformants were selected on medium lacking uracil. Yeast strain K601/W3031A (MATα leu2, his3, ade2, and ura3; CITATION) transformed with the empty p426 vector was used as a positive control. To compare the growth of K616 cells containing p426-ECA3 or p426 alone, cells were first grown in liquid culture overnight at 30°C in synthetic complete (SC) without uracil (pH 5.0) and containing 20 g L−1 Glc as the carbon source. Cultures were adjusted to the same OD600 and aliquots were inoculated onto 2% (w/v) agar plates containing the SC − uracil medium (pH 4.9) with Gal or Glc and various additions as specified in “Results.” Plates were incubated at 30°C for 3 to 5 d. Four-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum ‘Petit Havana’) plants grown at 22°C on a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)-mediated transient expression (CITATION). pVKH18En6-GONST1-GFP (CITATION) or pEG104-ECA3-YFP-transformed A. tumefaciens was cultured at 28°C, until the stationary phase (approximately 24 h), washed, and resuspended in infiltration medium (MES 50 mm, pH 5.6, Glc 0.5% [w/v], Na3PO4 2 mm, acetosyringone 300 μm [from 750 mm stock in dimethyl sulfoxide]). The bacterial suspension was inoculated using a 1-mL syringe without a needle by gentle pressure through the stomata on the lower epidermal surface (CITATION). Transformed plants were then incubated under normal growth conditions for 3 d at 22°C. Transformed leaves were analyzed 72 h after infection of the lower epidermis. Confocal imaging was performed using an inverted Zeiss LSM510 META laser-scanning microscope with a 63× oil immersion objective. For imaging expression of GFP and YFP, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 458 nm for GFP and 514 nm for YFP with a 475/525-nm band-pass filter for GFP and a 530/600-nm band-pass filter for YFP were used alternately with line switching using the multitrack facilities of the microscope. Appropriate controls were performed to exclude any cross talk and bleed through of fluorescence. A. tumefaciens strain C5851 (CITATION) was transformed by electroporation and transformants were selected on YEP plates (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 1.5% agar) containing 25 μg mL−1 gentamycin and 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Wild-type Arabidopsis ecotype ‘Columbia-0’ plants were transformed by floral dipping (CITATION). Seeds were selected on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog plates without Suc and supplemented with 25 μg mL−1 hygromycin B under short-day (8-h-light) conditions. After 2 weeks, transformants were tested for GUS activity as described by CITATION. For flower and silique staining, plants were selected on plates as before and then transferred to soil under long-day (16-h-light) conditions for 2 weeks. Transverse sections of GUS-stained roots were obtained as by CITATION and visualized in a Nikon Eclipse 80i light microscope. At least four independent transformant lines were tested in each case. Seed for putative T-DNA insertion lines for AtECA2 and AtECA3 from the Salk collection (http://signal.salk.edu) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. These were seed lines N576961 (eca2-1), N539146 (eca2-2), N545567 (eca3-1), and N570619 (eca3-2). To isolate eca mutants, homozygous for the insert, a similar procedure to that previously described for hma4 mutants was followed (CITATION). Briefly, genomic DNA was isolated from soil-grown plants using the DNAMITE plant kit (Microzone). To genotype the plants with respect to the T-DNA insert, PCR was carried out on genomic DNA using the primer for the T-DNA left border (Salk LBa1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′) and gene-specific primers ECA2.F (5′ TAGGGACGAGGAAAATGG-3′) for eca2-1 and eca2-2, ECA3.R (5′-CATCCCATTGCTGTCAAAGACGGTACCTT-3′) for eca3-1, and ECA3.F (5′-TCCAATCTGCAGAGCATGGTCCTATGA-3′) for eca3-2. PCR conditions were 94°C for 2 min followed by 40 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, then 54°C (ECA2.F), 56°C (ECA3.F), or 58°C (ECA3.R) for 1 min, then 72°C for 1 min (except 2 min for ECA3.R), and then a final elongation step of 72°C for 5 min. For N576961 (eca2-1), N545567 (eca3-1), and N570619 (eca3-2), sequencing confirmed the original Salk-predicted T-DNA locations, whereas for N539146 (eca2-2) the insert location was confirmed at 139 bp 3′ of the predicted location. Mutant alleles for ECA2 (eca2-1 and eca2-2) and ECA3 (eca3-1 and eca3-2) were obtained and lines homozygous for the inserts were selected for phenotypic analysis. The lack of a transcript was confirmed at the RNA level by RT-PCR using primers that span the insertion site: for ECA2, ECA2.F (see above) and ECA2RTR (5′-CTTAAGGATTACTTCTCTGCTA-3′); and ECA3, ECA3ex10F (5′-GCATACACGATTCTATGTTGCAGACAGATGAT-3′) and ECA3SGR (5′-GTTACCAAATTGACCCACAGAAGT-3′). Amplification of Actin2 was used as a positive control using primers Actin2.F, 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′, and Actin2.R, 5′-CTCGGCCTTGGAGATCCACATC-3′. After denaturation at 94°C for 2 min, PCR was cycled as follows: 24 cycles of 94°C, 30 s; 56°C, 1 min; 72°C, 1 min for Actin2; 40 cycles of 94°C, 30 s; 50°C, 1 min; 72°C, 1 min for ECA2; and 40 cycles of 94°C, 30 s; 55°C, 1 min; 72°C, 2 min for ECA3. A final elongation step of 72°C for 5 min was used in all. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number EU082212. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Growth of eca mutants is similar to wild-type plants on soil. Supplemental Figure S2. Phenotype of eca3 mutants grown under Mn-deficient conditions. Supplemental Figure S3. Elemental analysis of eca3 mutant. Supplemental Figure S4. Maximum-likelihood phylogenetic tree for P2-type ATPases created using Tree-puzzle 5.2.
