!~ABS~! ALTERED RESPONSE TO GRAVITY1 (ARG1) and its paralog ARG1-LIKE2 (ARL2) are J-domain proteins that are required for normal root and hypocotyl gravitropism. In this paper, we show that both ARL2 and ARG1 function in a gravity signal transduction pathway with PIN3, an auxin efflux facilitator that is expressed in the statocytes. In gravi-stimulated roots, PIN3 relocalizes to the lower side of statocytes, a process that is thought to, in part, drive the asymmetrical redistribution of auxin toward the lower flank of the root. We show that ARL2 and ARG1 are required for PIN3 relocalization and asymmetrical distribution of auxin upon gravi-stimulation. ARL2 is expressed specifically in the root statocytes, where it localizes to the plasma membrane. Upon ectopic expression, ARL2 is also found at the cell plate of dividing cells during cytokinesis, an area of intense membrane dynamics. Mutations in ARL2 and ARG1 also result in auxin-related expansion of the root cap columella, consistent with a role for ARL2 and ARG1 in regulating auxin flux through the root tip. Together these data suggest that ARL2 and ARG1 functionally link gravity sensation in the statocytes to auxin redistribution through the root cap.
!~RES~! To analyze the function of ARL2 in regulating asymmetrical redistribution of auxin, we analyzed the expression of transgenic reporters that fuse the auxin-responsive DR5 promoter to either β-glucuronidase (DR5::GUS) or GFP (DR5rev::GFP) in arl2-3, arg1-2 and wild-type root tips both before and after gravi-stimulation (CITATION; CITATION). After 6 h of gravi-stimulation, lateral activation of GUS expression on the lower side of the root tip was detected in wild-type controls but was absent in all arl2-3 and arg1-2 root tips analyzed (Figure 1a). Analysis of DR5rev::GFP expression in live seedlings was performed by growing seedlings expressing DR5rev::GFP in agar against a cover slip mounted on a vertically oriented microscope with a rotating stage (see Experimental procedures). This allowed visualization of the same root throughout the gravitropic response, and was important because asymmetric expression of both DR5::GUS and DR5rev::GFP reporters also occurs in vertically oriented roots, making it difficult to attribute asymmetrical GUS activity to gravity-regulated redistribution (Table 1) (CITATION). By comparing signals in roots just after gravi-stimulation (time 0) to those at later time points, we were able to identify post-stimulation expression patterns. Under these conditions, dramatically asymmetric expression of DR5rev::GFP was seen 8 h after stimulation within the lateral cap and epidermal cells of the distal elongation zone. During these experiments, we observed instances of asymmetrical expression along the upper flank of some gravi-stimulated root tips. To determine the gravity-regulated proportion of asymmetrical signals, we subtracted the number of roots showing signal along the upper flank from those showing signal along the lower flank and divided this value by the total number of roots observed (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] Percentages were calculated as 100 × (number of roots showing asymmetrical expression on the lower flank − number of roots showing asymmetrical expression along the upper flank)/total number of roots. The total numbers of roots analyzed per genotype per time point are shown in parentheses. Values for time zero reflect the number of vertically grown roots showing asymmetrical expression in either lateral direction. For wild-type roots, 71% showed asymmetrical expression of DR5rev::GFP on the lower flank following 8 h of gravi-stimulation (Figure 1b and Table 1). This proportion decreased to 37.5% after 12 h of stimulation. After 17 h, wild-type roots occasionally displayed an opposite gradient in DR5rev::GFP expression, with preferential expression on the upper flank of the root (Table 1). In comparison, arl2-3 [DR5rev::GFP] and arg1-2 [DR5rev::GFP] roots showed greatly attenuated responses after 8 h, with only 8% and 6% of roots, respectively, displaying asymmetrical expression on the lower flank (Figure 1b and Table 1). The extent of asymmetrical DR5rev::GFP expression in arl2-3 and arg1-2 was also less dramatic than that in the wild-type. Similarly, at 12 and 17 h after gravi-stimulation, expression of DR5rev::GFP in arl2-3 and arg1-2 was only rarely asymmetrical, indicating that auxin redistribution is not simply delayed in either mutant (Table 1). ARL2 and ARG1 encode similar J-domain proteins and may function in gravitropism by modulating the activity, localization or complex formation of other target proteins (CITATION). One candidate substrate for ARL2 and ARG1 in gravitropism is PIN3. If PIN3 activity/localization depends on ARL2 and ARG1, arl2 pin3 and arg1 pin3 double mutants will not display a gravitropic phenotype that is more dramatic than that of the single mutants. If, however, PIN3 functions in a gravitropic response pathway that is ARL2- and ARG1-independent, the gravitropic response of arl2 pin3 and arg1 pin3 double mutants will be more severely affected than that of either single mutant. In order to perform double mutant analysis in the same genetic background, we isolated Columbia (Col-0) alleles of ARL2 (arl2-4) and ARG1 (arg1-3) and crossed them to the null pin3-3 Col-0 allele (CITATION). arl2-4 harbors T-DNA in the 2nd exon of ARL2, 327 nt from the start codon, whereas arg1-3 carries T-DNA within the 9th intron of ARG1, 1971 nt from the start codon (Figure S1). Analysis of transcription from arl2-4 indicated that this allele produces a transcript that results from splicing together the 1st and 3rd exons, thereby excising the 2nd exon and T-DNA (Figure S1). Sequencing of the corresponding cDNA segment revealed that the 1st and 3rd exons of ARL2 are out of phase, so the mutant mRNA encodes only 57 amino acids followed by a stop codon within the highly conserved J-domain. Analysis of transcription from arg1-3 by RT-PCR indicated that no full-length transcript is produced from this allele (Figure S1). Both arl2-4 and arg1-3 are therefore likely to be null alleles. Additionally, arl2-4 and arg1-3 failed to complement arl2-3 and arg1-2 mutations, respectively, indicating that the gravitropic phenotypes of arl2-4 and arg1-3 are due to mutations in ARL2 and ARG1 (Figure S1). Roots of arl2-4 pin3-3 and arg1-3 pin3-3 double mutants showed gravitropic kinetics that were indistinguishable from those of arl2-4 and arg1-3 single mutants, respectively (Figure 2a,b). These results indicate that PIN3 functions in the ARL2 and ARG1 pathway to mediate root gravitropism. [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, the hypocotyls of arl2-4 pin3-3 and arg1-3 pin3-3 seedlings showed slower gravitropic bending at later time points than either arl2-4 or arg1-3 single mutants respectively (Figure 2c,d). These results demonstrate that ARL2 and ARG1 function in a distinct pathway from PIN3 to mediate hypocotyl gravitropism. However, the mean angles for double arl2-4 pin3-3 and arg1-3 pin3-3 mutants at the early time points of the hypocotyl gravitropic response (3 and 6 h) are similar to the arl2-4 and arg1-3 single mutant angles. Upon gravi-stimulation, PIN3 accumulates on the new lower side of root statocytes and is thought to drive lateral redistribution of auxin to the lower flank of the root (CITATION; CITATION). Mutations in ARL2 and ARG1 attenuate auxin redistribution (Figure 1 and Table 1) (CITATION), and eliminate the contribution of PIN3 to root gravitropism (Figure 2). We therefore hypothesized that arl2 and arg1 mutants have altered expression or localization of PIN3. In order to determine the effect of mutations in ARL2 and ARG1 on the expression or subcellular localization of PIN3 in columella cells, we immunolocalized PIN3 in arl2-3, arg1-2, and Wassilewskija (Ws, wild-type) roots before and after gravi-stimulation, using anti-PIN3 antibodies (CITATION). Root tips were cut and collected into fixative either from vertically oriented seedlings (vertical samples) or from seedlings gravi-stimulated by rotating the plates 90° (stimulated samples). Stimulated samples were cut diagonally across the gravity vector such that their orientation within the gravity field could be determined unambiguously after staining. PIN3 was symmetrically localized at the cell periphery and within the cytoplasm in columella cells of vertically grown arl2-3, arg1-2 and Ws roots (Figure 3). This result indicates that there is no apparent defect in expression or peripheral localization of PIN3 within statocytes of vertically growing arl2-3 and arg1-2 roots. Upon gravi-stimulation, PIN3 was asymmetrically localized to the new lower side of the columella cells of about 50% of wild-type root tips after 10, 20 or 40 min of stimulation (Figure 3 and Table 2). Consistent with the results of CITATION, we did not see asymmetrical accumulation of PIN3 signals in all stimulated wild-type root tips or in every cell of any root tip. Importantly, accumulation toward the new topside was observed in only one wild-type sample, with the rest showing no detectable bias (Table 2). These results demonstrate a clear bias toward lateral accumulation of PIN3 on the new lower side of columella cells of gravi-stimulated wild-type root tips, as proposed by CITATION and reported by CITATION. PIN3 did not show lateral accumulation to the new lower side of statocytes in either arl2-3 or arg1-2 (Figure 3 and Table 2). The lack of asymmetrical PIN3 accumulation in arl2-3 and arg1-2 persisted in roots stimulated for 40 min, indicating the absence or severe attenuation of this response to gravi-stimulation in both mutants. [[FIGURE]] aNumber of root tips showing polar PIN3 localization on the new lower side of the columella cells. bNumber of root tips showing polar PIN3 localization on the new upper side of the columella cells. cNumber of root tips where PIN3 localization showed no bias toward lower or upper sides of the columella cells. dRIPIN3, relocalization index for PIN3 = 100 × (number of roots showing bias toward the lower side − number showing bias toward the upper side)/total number of roots. ARG1 is expressed throughout the plant, and localizes to several organelles and membranes including the plasma membrane (CITATION). In order to determine the expression pattern and subcellular localization of ARL2, we created two constructs, fusing either the ARL2 genomic region, including the promoter, to GFP (ARL2pro::ARL2-GFP), or fusing the ARL2 cDNA, controlled by the strong, constitutive 35S promoter, to GFP (35S::ARL2-GFP), and analyzed their expression in transformed Arabidopsis by confocal microscopy (Figures 4 and 5). When expressed from its own promoter, ARL2–GFP shows a striking expression pattern, restricted to tiers 1, 2 and 3 of the root cap columella (Figure 4a,d). Closer inspection of ARL2–GFP in these cells revealed that most of the signal is associated with the cell periphery, with weaker cytoplasmic signal occasionally observed in cells with high expression levels (Figure 4e). Under the control of the 35S promoter, ARL2–GFP localizes to the periphery of all cells in which it can be detected. In root epidermal, cortical and lateral cap cells, it co-localizes with AGR1/PIN2 in membranes that carry the latter protein (Figure 5a). Interestingly, ARL2–GFP signals were most intense at the newly forming cell wall (cell plate) in dividing cells (Figure 5a,b). Note that at least five independent transformants for each construct showed similar signals, and both transgenic ARL2–GFP fusions rescue the gravitropic defect of arl2-3 (Figure 4f, and data not shown), indicating that the fusion protein is functional. Plants expressing either 35S::ARL2-GFP or ARL2pro::ARL2-GFP showed only weak fluorescence in hypocotyls (not shown), suggesting that ARL2 might be subject to post-transcriptional regulation. ARL2–GFP also co-fractionated with membranes upon centrifugation, indicating that ARL2 is membrane-associated (Figure 5c). Additionally, ARL2–GFP signals remained within the protoplasm upon brief plasmolysis, indicating that ARL2 is not associated with the cell wall (Figure 5d). Together, these results indicate that ARL2 is expressed in root statocytes and associates primarily with the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, PIN3 protein was found in an expanded number of root tip cells in arl2-3 and arg1-2 compared to Ws (Figure 3), as were DR5rev::GUS (Figure 6a) (CITATION) and DR5rev::GFP expression (Figure 6b). These results suggested that there may be more cells with columella identity in arl2-3 and arg1-2 root tips. To investigate this possibility, we stained root tips for starch to identify columella cells. We observed an increase in the number of columns of starch-staining cells in arl2-3 (5.8 ± 0.46, mean ± SD, P value < 2 × 10−31, t test) and arg1-2 (5.9 ± 0.60, P value < 4 × 10−26) compared to wild-type (4.3 ± 0.60, Figure 6c). We also noted the occurrence of arl2-3 and arg1-2 root caps with additional cell files shaped like central columella cells (Figure 6d). These results indicate that there are more files of cells with columella cell identity in mutant root tips compared to wild-type, but the number of tiers is unaffected. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! arl2-4 (SALK_034413), arg1-3 (SALK_024542) and pin3-4 (SALK_038609) were isolated by screening the SALK T-DNA insertion collection, in the Col background (CITATION). arg1-2 and arl2-3 mutants, in the Ws background, have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION); these alleles are probably null. DR5::GUS-transformed seeds in the Col background (CITATION) were obtained from T.J. Guilfoyle (University of Missouri, Columbia, MO). Seeds of the pin3-3 allele (CITATION), as well as DR5rev::GFP-transformed seed in the Col background (CITATION), were obtained from J. Friml (University of Tübingen, Germany). For analysis of DR5::GUS and DR5rev::GFP expression, arg1-2 and arl2-3 were crossed to the DR5::GUS- and DR5rev::GFP-transformed lines. Seed for analysis was collected from F3 families that were either homozygous for arg1-2 or arl2-3, or homozygous for ARG1 and ARL2 (wild-type controls) and non-segregating for GUS activity or GFP fluorescence. arg1-3 pin3-3 and arl2-4 pin3-3 double mutants were isolated from F4 populations. All plant manipulations, including surface sterilization of seeds, plating on agar-based medium, and growth conditions were as previously described (CITATION). For analysis of DR5rev::GFP expression, seed was sterilized and cold-treated for 3 days, then sown on approximately 1 ml of half-strength Linsmeier and Skoog (LS) medium containing 0.5% sucrose and 0.8% agar that had been solidified on sterile cover slips. Cover slips were then sealed in petri plates with parafilm, tilted back 30° from the vertical and placed into a growth chamber such that the roots grew along the cover slip surface. After 4–5 days of growth, cover slips were removed and sealed in plexiglass slides. Slides were mounted on a vertical-stage microscope (Nikon Optiphot-2; http://www.nikon.com, tilted on its back) equipped with a standard FITC/GFP filter cube. Seedlings were allowed to acclimatize for > 30 min before each experiment. Gravi-stimulation was performed by rotating the microscope stage 90°. Digital images were taken using a CCD camera (Diagnostic Instruments; http://www.diaginc.com). For analysis of DR5rev::GFP expression and starch staining in the same root, seedlings were mounted on slides and images of GFP fluorescence were collected prior to lugol staining for starch visualization. Root and hypocotyl gravitropism experiments were carried out as described previously (CITATION), using 3–5-day-old seedlings, which, in our hands, develop more uniform gravi-responses than older seedlings. For hypocotyl gravitropism, seed was plated on nutrient medium containing 2% agar, stratified, treated with light for 24 h to induce germination, then wrapped in aluminum foil for 3 days of etiolated growth. Gravi-stimulation was provided by 90° rotation of the plates. Hypocotyl angles were measured from digital images using NIH Image, version 1.63 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). For the 35S::ARL2-GFP construct, the ARL2 cDNA was PCR-amplified without its stop codon from a Col-0 cDNA template and cloned between the attL1 and attL2 sites in the Gateway entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) resulting in ARL2pENTR. Subsequent LR recombination (Invitrogen) into the binary vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION) resulted in 35S::ARL2-GFP, which fuses GFP to the C-terminus of ARL2 under the control of the 35S promoter. For the proARL2::ARL2-GFP construct, the complete genomic sequence of ARL2 without the stop codon, as well as 2354 kb of upstream sequence, was PCR-amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA using the primers 5′-CACCTAATAGTATAAATGTTCAGTCAGAGTT-3′ and 5′-GTTTTTTTTCTTGTCTTGCCTCAGC-3′, and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO, resulting in proARL2::ARL2pENTR. The insert was then recombined into pK7FWG2w/o35S (a pK7FWG2 plasmid that had been modified by removal of the 35S promoter as an SpeI–SacI fragment, followed by blunt-ending the remaining vector using Klenow fragment, and ligation). The DNA sequence of each construct was confirmed by sequencing. Transformation of Arabidopsis using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was performed by the floral dip method (CITATION). For starch staining, 4- or 5-day-old seedlings were immersed in 1% lugol solution (0.1% potassium iodine, 0.05% iodine, in distilled water) for 1–2 min, and mounted on slides in water saturated with chloral hydrate. For GUS activity, vertically grown or gravi-stimulated seedlings were immersed in 100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.2, containing 1.9 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc, Research Organics; http://www.resorg.com), 2 mm potassium ferricyanide and 0.5% Triton X-100. Seedlings in solution were subjected to 3.3 kPa vacuum for 30 min, followed by incubation for up to 16 h at 37°C. Samples were examined with a Leica DM LB2 microscope (Leica; http://www/leica-microsystems.com) using DIC/Nomarski optics, and images were recorded with a CCD camera. For cell-wall and membrane staining, 3–4-day-old seedlings were immersed in 10 μg ml−1 propidium iodide (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) for 5–10 min, or 10 nM FM4-64 (Molecular Probes; http://www.probes.invitrogen.com) for 2 min, respectively, mounted in water and examined by laser scanning confocal microscopy using 488 nm excitation light from an argon laser and a 560 nm long-pass (LP) emission filter. In situ immunolocalization of PIN3 was performed as described previously (CITATION). Determination of bias in lateral localization (Table 2) was performed by analysis of the entire z-series for each root. The sample genotype and direction of stimulation were not known at the time of evaluation in order to eliminate subjective interpretation. Individual roots were recorded as presenting a bias in PIN3 protein localization if several of their columella cells displayed preferential PIN3 localization on the same side (upper or lower) relative to the general axis of the root. In situ immunolocalization of PIN2 and α-tubulin was performed as described previously (CITATION) using 1:200 anti-AGR1/PIN2 (CITATION) and 1:100 anti-α-tubulin (clone B-5-1-2, Sigma). Rhodamine-conjugated anti-rabbit (Sigma; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) and Cy3TM-conjugated anti-mouse (Jackson Labs) were used as secondary antibodies at 1:300. For Western blots, anti-GFP (CITATION) was used at 1:8000 and anti-PUX1 (CITATION) and anti-PEP12 (CITATION) were used at 1:5000. Detection of positive signals was performed using HP-conjugated anti-rabbit at 1:20 000 (Sigma). Laser scanning confocal micrographs were generated using either a Bio-Rad MRC-1024 (http://www.bio-rad.com/) or a Zeiss LSM510 microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/) at the Keck Biological Imaging Laboratory, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Multi-photon images were generated using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 MP Rainbow multi-photon system at Keck Biological Imaging Laboratory. Plasmolysis was performed by immersing 3-day-old seedlings in 0.8 m mannitol, 1 m potassium nitrate or water (control) containing counterstain (see Figure 5) for 6 min, mounting in solution without stain, and observing by confocal microscopy. cDNA was generated using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) from total RNA, isolated using an RNA-easy kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/) from approximately 100 mg of 5-day-old whole seedlings grown on nutrient medium. Equal amounts of cDNA were then used to perform PCR using the following primer pairs: 5′-CGAGAAGATGAGCGCGAAAAAGCTTGAA-3′ and 5′-TATATCATCAATCCACCATCACAAT-3′ for ARG1, 5′-CACTCAAACTGGGAAACAAAAAC-3′ and 5′-TTCAACGCCTCCCCCAATAAATTT-3′ for ARL2, and 5′-CTCAGATCGAAATCGAGAAGAAG-3′ and 5′-GAACCGGAAGCAGACAGAAG -3′ for PAE2, for 30 cycles (ARG1), 40 cycles (ARL2) or 25 cycles (PAE2). The mutant and wild-type cDNAs from ARL2 and arl2-4 were cloned into pGEM-T and sequenced. Basic molecular protocols were as described by CITATION. Membrane fractions were prepared as described previously (CITATION), except that plants were 1-week-old, the buffer lacked DTT, and membranes were pelleted for 30 min.
