!~ABS~! Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) is an aspartic proteinase that hydrolyses its substrate within the plane of the cellular membrane. In vertebrates, it plays crucial roles in life processes such as differentiation, embryogenesis, cell signaling and immunological response. We first found SPP in plants. An ortholog of human SPP (AtSPP), and its five AtSPP homologs (AtSPPL1–AtSPPL5), were searched for in the Arabidopsis database. These clones were grouped into three different clusters: AtSPP was grouped with human SPP (HsSPP) orthologs, AtSPPL1 with the HsSPPL3 family, and AtSPPL2–AtSPPL5 with the group of SPP‐like proteins of plant origin. AtSPP, AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were examined for their expression profiles by in situ hybridization. AtSPP was strongly expressed in both the shoot meristem of germinating seeds and the inflorescence meristem at the reproductive stage. On the other hand, AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were expressed in the shoot meristem of germinating seeds, but at very low levels in the shoot apex at the reproductive stage. The subcellular localization of AtSPP, AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 was investigated using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in cultured ‘Deep’ cells. GFP–AtSPP localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and GFP–AtSPPL1 and GFP–AtSPPL2 to the endosomes. These results suggest that AtSPP mediates the cleavage of signal peptide in the ER membrane as well as HsSPP does, and also that AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 located in the endosomes have distinct roles in cells. 
!~RES~! We screened an Arabidopsis genome database using HsSPP as a query sequence. We obtained one ortholog of HsSPP, AtSPP, and five homologs of AtSPP, AtSPPL1, AtSPPL2, AtSPPL3, AtSPPL4, and AtSPPL5. Computer‐generated topological analysis revealed that all protein sequences possessed several transmembrane domains with high hydrophobicity indexes (Fig. 1). The two active sites, YD and GXGD, were conserved in AtSPP and AtSPPLs, as well as the PAL motif occurring in the I‐CliP of AP (EC 3.4.23) [CITATION] (Fig. 1). As predicted, AtSPP and AtSPPL1 encoded proteins of 344 and 372 amino acid residues, respectively, comparable in size to full‐length HsSPP. AtSPPL2, AtSPPL3, AtSPPL4 and AtSPPL5 encoded proteins of 536−540 amino acid residues, which contained approximately 160 additional amino acid residues in their N‐terminal regions as compared to AtSPP and AtSPPL1.  [[FIGURE]] We constructed a phylogenetic tree of SPPs and SPPLs using the conserved amino acid sequences in deduced transmembrane domains 1–9 (Fig. 2). AtSPP clustered with human, mouse and zebrafish SPPs, having 39% identity to HsSPP. Thus, it was given the designation AtSPP. AtSPPL1 and HsSPPL3 grouped together with mouse and zebrafish SPPL3, and the putative protein encoded by a clone from the rice cultivars Nipponbare. A third cluster was composed of HsSPPL2, and SPP homologs from mouse, zebrafish and C. elegans. AtSPPL2, AtSPPL3, AtSPPL4 and AtSPPL5 together, with rice SPPL genes, comprised a cluster independent of nonplant homologs. AtSPP shared 22–23% sequence identity with genes in this cluster, whereas the clones in this cluster shared 60–70% sequence identity with each another. These results showed that SPP and SPPL genes in Arabidopsis are classified into three groups: AtSPP with HsSPP; AtSPPL1 with HsSPPL3; and AtSPPL2, AtSPPL3, AtSPPL4 and AtSPPL5 with a plant‐specific group.  [[FIGURE]] To examine the tissue‐specific expression pattern of AtSPP and its homologs, RT‐PCR was carried out using the primers shown in Experimental procedures (Fig. 3). Amplified fragments corresponding to AtSPP, AtSPPL1, AtSPPL2 and AtSPPL3 mRNAs were detected in all the tissues, roots, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flower‐bud clusters, siliques and dry seeds. In contrast, AtSPPL4‐specific and AtSPPL5‐specific fragments were undetectable.  [[FIGURE]] We next performed in situ hybridization to verify the tissue expression of AtSPP, AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2. AtSPP‐specific signals were not detected 32 h after imbibition (Fig. 4A), but appeared 40 h after (Fig. 4B) and remained for up to 48 h (Fig. 4C). Intent signals were detected in the shoot meristem (arrows) and the epidermis of the radicle, particularly in cells near the root tip (arrowhead). The patterns of AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were similar to that of AtSPP in the shoot meristem (Fig. 4D–F). At the reproductive stage, AtSPP was expressed in the whole shoot apex (Fig. 4G), whereas AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were hardly detected (Fig. 4H,I).  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular localization of AtSPP, AtSPPL1, and AtSPPL2, we generated expression constructs in which the expression of their GFP fusion proteins was placed under the control of the 35S promoter (Fig. 5Aa). Analysis of AtSPP and its homologs using signalp 3.0 server software revealed the presence of a signal sequence in the N‐terminal regions of the proteins composed of approximately 30 amino acid residues (Fig. 1). GFP was fused to the C‐termini of the full‐length proteins, AtSPP, AtSPPL1, and AtSPPL2. These fusion proteins were transiently expressed in ‘Deep’ cells. Fluorescence signals corresponding to AtSPP–GFP were observed as tubular/reticular shapes, which are typical of the plant ER [CITATION] (Fig. 5Ba). Similar results were obtained with GFP–HDEL, which consisted of the ER retention signal sequence (His‐Asp‐Glu‐Leu) fused to the C‐terminus of GFP (Fig. 5Bb).  [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence signals corresponding to AtSPPL1–GFP and AtSPPL2–GFP exhibited a punctate pattern (Fig. 5Bc,d). To determine whether these proteins localized to endosomes, we labeled transfected cells with FM4‐64, an endocytic tracer that labels endosomes [CITATION]. As shown in Fig. 5Bg,h, fluorescence signals of AtSPPL1–GFP and AtSPPL2–GFP were observed on a subpopulation of dotty organelles stained by FM4‐64, which strongly suggests that AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 localize to endosomes in ‘Deep’ cells. The cells expressing GFP alone (Fig. 5Ac) exhibited nuclear and cytosolic fluorescence (Fig. 5Be), and cells expressing GFP–2SC, a GFP fusion protein of the vacuolar sorting signal of pumpkin 2S albumin (2SC) (Fig. 5Ad), exhibited vacuole fluorescence (Fig. 5Bf). These results indicate that AtSPP localizes to the ER, and both AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 localize to the endosomes.  In germinating seeds and flowers, the expression sites of AtSPPL3 were the same as those of AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2, but the localization was not identified (data not shown).  To examine the localization of endogenous AtSPP, crude membrane fractions were prepared from ‘Deep’ cells and subjected to equilibrium sucrose density gradient centrifugation in the presence or absence of Mg2+. Fractions were subjected to SDS/PAGE, and proteins were transferred to a poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane membrane. Membranes were then incubated with an antibody against the C‐terminal region of AtSPP (anti‐AtSPP‐CT). AtSPP was present in fractions 6–16, which almost corresponded to the elution profile of the luminal binding protein (BiP) (Fig. 6A). In the presence of EDTA, membrane‐bound ribosomes are separated from the rough ER. Under these conditions, AtSPP shifted to lower‐density fractions (fractions 12–19), along with BiP (fractions 8–19) (Fig. 6B). The localization of plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP1), and vacuolar‐type proton pyrophosphatase (V‐PPase) as controls was almost similar in the presence or absence of Mg2+. These results support the idea that AtSPP localize in the ER or the Golgi apparatus. The transient expression of GFP–AtSPP showed the ER localization of AtSPP. Together with these results we concluded that AtSPP localizes in the ER.  [[FIGURE]] We then examined fraction 10 (from Fig. 6A) and fraction 14 (from Fig. 6B) by western blotting, using an antibody raised against AtSPP‐CT. Immunoblot analysis indicated that AtSPP was present as a protein of 30 kDa (Fig. 6C), which is smaller than the expected molecular mass of AtSPP (38 kDa). However, when immunoblot analysis was carried out in the presence of a competing antigenic peptide, the 30 kDa band disappeared (Fig. 6C). The shift in molecular mass observed for AtSPP may be due to its anomalous behavior on SDS/PAGE. 
!~MM~! A. thaliana, ecotype Columbia 0 (Col‐0), was grown on rock‐wool bricks supplemented with Hyponex (HYPONeX, Osaka, Japan) in growth chambers paved with vermiculite at 22 °C under long‐day conditions (16 h light : 8 h dark). For analysis of expression of AtSPP and its homologs during germination, seeds were imbibed on moist cotton wool under continuous dark conditions, and harvested after 32, 40 and 48 h of imbibition.  Suspension cultures of Arabidopsis cells (also known as ‘Deep’ cells) were cultured at 22 °C in Murashige and Skoog medium under dark conditions.  AtSPP and its homologs were identified using a blast search of The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; http://www.arabidopsis.org) databases and the sequence of HsSPP as a probe [CITATION]. The primary structures of AtSPP and AtSPP homologs were analyzed using tmhmm Server v. 2.0 software (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM‐2.0/) to predict the presence of transmembrane domains, and signalp 3.0 Server software (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/) to predict signal sequences. The sequence of AtSPPL5 cDNA was confirmed by RT‐PCR, because of errors in TAIR leading to incorrect designations of the introns and exons of AtSPPL5.  The phylogenetic tree was constructed on the basis of amino acid sequence alignments by the neighbor‐joining method as implemented in clustal w. The sequence adapted in the phylogenetic tree was the region of transmembranes 1–9, which are conserved in all SPPs and SPPLs. The stabilities of the trees were estimated by bootstrap analysis for 1000 replications using the same program. The tree figure was generated by the tree‐view program [CITATION].  Total RNA was extracted from root, rosette leaf, cauline leaf, stem, flower‐bud cluster, silique and whole dry seed using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan). For RT‐PCR, 1 μg of total RNA from each tissue was used as a template for first‐strand cDNA synthesis with an oligo(dT) primer. Gene‐specific nucleotide sequences of PCR primers were: AtSPP, 5′‐CATTCCGGGTATTTTCGTTG‐3′ and 5′‐CGTGAGGATCACACCAACAG‐3′; AtSPPL1, 5′‐TGGTCTTGGTGACATGGCTA‐3′ and 5′‐GCATATCCGGGAAGTGCATA‐3′; AtSPPL2, 5′‐ATGGAGTGCCCGAGAAGCA‐3′ and 5′‐CCCGAAGCAAGAACTACGAA‐3′; AtSPPL3, 5′‐TGCTCGGAAATCTGTGAAGC‐3′ and 5′‐GCCAACCCAAGAATACGATG‐3′; AtSPPL4, 5′‐TCGGGTTTGTTCTTCTCAGC‐3′ and 5′‐CTTCTGTCACCACGGGCTAC‐3′; and AtSPPL5, 5′‐CGAATGTTGACGCTACCAAAG‐3′ and 5′‐CGAGGAATGTGGACGCTGAT‐3′. PCR was carried out as follows: 30 cycles of 94 °C for 1 min, 30 cycles of 94 °C for 30 s (denaturation), 62 °C for 30 s (annealing), and 72 °C for 30 s (elongation), and then 72 °C for 5 min.  Seeds were obtained after 32, 40 and 48 h of imbibition and soaked in 100 mm phosphate buffer (pH 7.3) containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde. Samples were degassed for 1 h with an aspirator. To prevent the loss of samples, seeds were embedded in 1% agarose and cut into 5 mm sections, and then fixed in fresh 4% paraformaldehyde overnight at 4 °C. Fixed samples were dehydrated in increasing concentrations of ethanol (50%, 70%, 90% and 100%), placed in xylene, and embedded in Paraplast Plus (Oxford Labware, St Louis, MO, USA).  Shoot apex samples were obtained 3 weeks after seedlings were soaked in 50% ethanol containing 5% formaldehyde/glacial acetic acid. Samples were degassed for 3 h with an aspirator, and dehydrated immediately with a series of washes in increasing concentrations of ethanol, placed in xylene, and embedded in Paraplast Plus.  Each sample was cut into 10 or 8 μm thick slices along the longitudinal axis and mounted on 3‐aminopropyltriethoxysilane‐coated slideglasses (Matsunami Glass, Tokyo, Japan). Antisense RNA probes were transcribed from their respective cDNA clone using T3 or T7 polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA), with a digoxigenin RNA Labeling Mix (Roche Biochemicals, Indianapolis, IN, USA). Full‐length cDNAs of AtSPP and its homologs were used as templates. Hybridization was performed as previously described [CITATION].  cDNAs of AtSPP, AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were purchased from the RIKEN Bioresource Center (pda02833, pda05349 and pda02853, respectively). Each cDNA fragment was cloned into pBluescript II KS (−), digested with BamHI, and subcloned into pSHO1, a plasmid derivative of pBluescript II KS (+) that contains the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter followed by GFP (S65T, provided by Y. Niwa, University of Shizuoka, Japan), and the Nos terminator [CITATION]. GFP–HDEL, containing the ER sorting signal, has been previously described [CITATION]. GFP–2SC, containing the vacuolar sorting signal of 2SC, has been previously reported [CITATION]. Plasmids were transiently expressed in suspension‐cultured Arabidopsis cells (also known as ‘Deep’ cells) by the method described previously [CITATION, CITATION]. Transformed cells were viewed using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus BX60, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with a confocal scanning unit (CSU10; Yokogawa Electric, Tokyo, Japan) and a charge‐coupled device (CCD) camera (Hamamatsu Photonics, ORCA‐ER, Shizuoka, Japan).  To visualize the localization of GFP and FM4‐64, Arabidopsis cells expressing GFP‐tagged AtSPPL1 and AtSPPL2 were incubated in Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.4 m mannitol and 25 μm FM4‐64 for 30 min. Cells were washed in fresh medium, and GFP and FM4‐64 were observed with a Zeiss confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510 META; Carl Zeiss, Tokyo, Japan).  We synthesized a C‐terminal peptide of AtSPP [EEATTDESKTSEEVNKAHDE(325–344)] with a cysteine residue at the N‐terminus. The peptide was conjugated to a carrier protein and injected into rabbits. The C‐terminal peptide and antibody (anti‐AtSPP‐CT) were supplied by ProteinPurify (Gunma, Japan). Polyclonal antibodies against the Arabidopsis ER‐luminal binding protein BiP, and the α‐subunit of V‐PPase, were kindly provided by M. Maeshima, Nagoya University, Japan. For western blot analysis, proteins were subjected to SDS/PAGE, and then transferred to a poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane. The membrane was soaked in 5% skimmed milk, and then incubated for 1 h with anti‐AtSPP‐CT (1 : 200), anti‐BiP (1 : 1000), anti‐PIP1 (1 : 2000) and anti‐V‐PPase (1 : 770), as indicated. Immunoreactive proteins were visualized using alkaline phosphatase‐conjugated goat anti‐rabbit IgG (GE Healthcare, Tokyo, Japan).  The crude membrane fractions were extracted from ‘Deep’ cells cultured for 5 days, and homogenized in medium containing 50 mm Tris/acetate (pH 7.5), 250 mm sorbitol, 1 mm EGTA, 2 mm dithiothreitol and 1 mmp‐(amidinophenyl)methanesulfonyl fluoride hydrochloride. The homogenate was filtered through cotton cloth prior to centrifugation at 10 000 g for 10 min. The supernatant was then centrifuged at 100 000 g for 40 min, and the resulting pellet was suspended in Tris/HCl (pH 7.5) containing 5% (w/w) sucrose, 1 mm EGTA, 2 mm dithiothreitol, and 2 mm MgCl2 or 4 mm EDTA. This crude membrane suspension (0.30 mL) was layered on a sucrose‐density gradient (15–45%), and centrifuged at 100 000 g for 19 h in a swinging‐bucket rotor, and 0.5 mL fractions were collected. 
