!~ABS~! The exosome complex plays a central and essential role in RNA metabolism. However, comprehensive studies of exosome substrates and functional analyses of its subunits are lacking. Here, we demonstrate that as opposed to yeast and metazoans the plant exosome core possesses an unanticipated functional plasticity and present a genome-wide atlas of Arabidopsis exosome targets. Additionally, our study provides evidence for widespread polyadenylation- and exosome-mediated RNA quality control in plants, reveals unexpected aspects of stable structural RNA metabolism, and uncovers numerous novel exosome substrates. These include a select subset of mRNAs, miRNA processing intermediates, and hundreds of noncoding RNAs, the vast majority of which have not been previously described and belong to a layer of the transcriptome that can only be visualized upon inhibition of exosome activity. These first genome-wide maps of exosome substrates will aid in illuminating new fundamental components and regulatory mechanisms of eukaryotic transcriptomes.
!~RES~! Previously, we demonstrated that Arabidopsis thaliana RRP4 and RRP41 proteins physically interact and reside in a high-molecular-weight complex in planta (CITATION). To elucidate its composition, we generated transgenic plants expressing either TAP-tagged RRP4 or RRP41 at physiological levels in rrp4-1 or rrp41-1 mutant plants, respectively. TAP-tagged RRP4 and RRP41 fully rescued the lethal phenotypes of their corresponding null alleles. TAP-tagged complexes were purified, and polypeptides shared between RRP4-TAP and RRP41-TAP samples but absent from the wild-type (WT) sample were subjected to MALDI and MS/MS analyses. Nine polypeptides corresponding to known subunits of the exosome core were identified: S1 and/or KH domain-containing subunits RRP4, RRP40A, and CSL4 as well as the RNase PH-type subunits RRP41, RRP42, RRP43, RRP45B, RRP46, and MTR3 ( CITATION and CITATION available online). In the case of subunits encoded by duplicated genes, only RRP40A and RRP45B were identified. This may be due to differences in the expression patterns and/or levels between the members of these gene pairs (CITATION). RRP6, which is restricted to a nuclear form of the exosome (CITATION) and is likely underrepresented in our preparations, was also absent. On the other hand, the absence of RRP44, which is responsible for most if not all of the catalytic activity of the core exosome in yeast and humans, may reflect a genuine species-specific difference in the functional architecture of the exosome since the Arabidopsis RRP41 subunit is unique in retaining its full catalytic activity (CITATION). To determine the consequences of losing specific exosome components on plant development, we characterized transfer-DNA (T-DNA) insertional alleles in several core subunits of the Arabidopsis exosome. In yeast, the CSL4 subunit is essential for viability (CITATION), and X-ray crystallographic analysis of the human exosome predicts that all of its core subunits are critical to maintaining structural integrity and functionality of the complex (CITATION). In marked contrast, we found that neither integrity nor function of the Arabidopsis exosome was significantly compromised by loss of CSL4. First, neither csl4-1 nor csl4-2 (a confirmed null allele) mutant plants manifested any discernible phenotype (CITATION). Second, size fractionation demonstrated that the Arabidopsis exosome complex lacking CSL4 remained nearly intact (CITATIONC). Furthermore, tiling microarray analyses (below) revealed that loss of CSL4 affects only a subset of exosome targets (CITATION and CITATION). In contrast, Arabidopsis RRP41 was essential for development of the female gametophyte, an eight-celled haploid structure derived from the primary product of female meiosis. While the rrp41-1 mutant allele was normally transmitted through the male parent, it was not transmitted through the female (n = 194), and selfed rrp41/RRP41 heterozygotes produced seeds and aborted ovules in a 1:1 ratio ( CITATIONA and CITATION; three independent rrp41 alleles showed identical phenotypes). Furthermore, the resulting progeny segregated 1:1 for WT and heterozygous plants. The mutant female gametophytes arrested (n = 422) after the first mitosis (two-nucleate stage, 43.1%; CITATIONB and 2C) and less frequently at one-nucleate (1.4%), four-nucleate (3.3%), or later stages (3.0%). Finally, loss of RRP4 resulted in an additional unique phenotype. Specifically, rrp4-1 mutant seeds arrested at early stages of embryogenesis (CITATIOND and CITATIONA–S4E). By the time WT progeny seeds of rrp4-1/RRP4 plants reached the heart or torpedo stages of embryogenesis, 30% of the rrp4-1/rrp4-1 progeny contained two-cell embryos, 0.5% undivided zygotes, and 3% had embryos at the early globular stage (n = 393). Analysis of stage-specific markers confirmed that rrp4-1 seed morphology faithfully reflects their developmental timing (CITATIONF and S4G). The rrp4-1 mutant endosperm developed to varying degrees but never past the cellularization stage (CITATIONB–S4D). These phenotypes cosegregated with the T-DNA genetic lesion, which was confirmed to be a null mutation using an SNP-based assay (CITATIONE), and were fully rescued by the WT and TAP-tagged RRP4 transgenes. In light of the recent findings that loss of the Arabidopsis mRNA decapping complex results in seedling lethality (CITATION), the phenotype of rrp4-1 mutant seeds suggests a more general function for RRP4 in postzygotic development, which is consistent with its broad substrate range revealed by tiling microarray analyses (below). In summary, the distinctiveness of the phenotypes of csl4, rrp4, and rrp41 mutant plants and their associated molecular signatures (below) indicate that the individual subunits in the Arabidopsis exosome core make nonequivalent contributions to its integrity and function. These findings set the plant exosome complex apart from those analyzed so far in other systems. To address the functions of RRP4 and RRP41 during vegetative growth, we engineered an estradiol-inducible RNAi (iRNAi) system (see CITATION). Growing these transgenic plants on estradiol-containing medium induced the RNAi-mediated knockdown of RRP4 (rrp4iRNAi ) or RRP41 (rrp41iRNAi ) mRNA, resulting in growth arrest (CITATIONF) and subsequent death of seedlings. Importantly, arrest was preceded by accumulation of 3′-underprocessed 5.8S rRNA species (CITATIONG). This molecular phenotype is indicative of exosome malfunction (CITATION) and was never observed in WT plants exposed to estradiol (neither is growth inhibition). These results show that Arabidopsis RRP4 and RRP41 are essential for postembryonic growth and validate the conditional iRNAi knockdown system as a useful approach for investigating their functions in vivo. To comprehensively identify exosome targets in Arabidopsis and gain additional insights into the apparent subfunctionalization of its core subunits, we implemented iRNAi in conjunction with whole-genome tiling microarrays. To minimize changes in gene expression that did not result directly from exosome depletion, we selected the earliest time point of estradiol treatment corresponding to the accumulation of underprocessed 5.8S rRNA species, but before growth retardation. Oligo(dT)-primed targets prepared from RNA samples from plants containing empty vector, rrp4iRNAi , or rrp41iRNAi constructs grown with or without estradiol were used to interrogate oligonucleotide tiling arrays. Therefore, the array signals should correspond exclusively to polyadenylated RNA species. Moreover, to rule out the possibility of spurious internal priming events, we employed 3′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (3′-RACE) to map the polyadenylation sites in a subset of targets (CITATION) as well as compared the relative change in expression between poly(A)+ and total RNA fractions for selected targets ( CITATIONC, CITATIONB, S5C, S5H, and CITATION). We used the TileMap algorithm, which utilizes a two-state hidden Markov model based on probe-level t statistics (CITATION), to identify genomic regions showing statistically significant changes. Expression data from arrays hybridized with targets from rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi plants that had been estradiol-treated were compared against the corresponding mock (DMSO)-treated samples, as well as against the empty-vector line treated with estradiol. We identified a total of 1612 genomic regions exhibiting increased levels of polyadenylated RNA upon the depletion of RRP4 (rrp4iRNAi ) and RRP41 (rrp41iRNAi ), while only about 1/10 as many regions showed downregulation (CITATIONH and 2I; CITATION). Depleting an exoribonucleolytic complex should cause increased accumulation of its target RNAs, thus the overwhelming majority of expression changes in RRP4- and RRP41-depleted seedlings most likely represent direct effects. In contrast, when we conducted a similar analysis of csl4-2 mutant versus wild-type (Ws) plants, upregulation was no longer a predominant trend (CITATION). Thus, the constitutive absence of CSL4 likely results in many secondary effects. This observation raises a general concern applicable to transcriptome studies using constitutive loss-of-function mutants and, conversely, emphasizes the value of conditional alleles like rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi . At the same time, it is notable that the overlap in the upregulated RNA targets among the csl4-2, rrp4iRNAi , and rrp41iRNA samples is highly significant, while the overlap in spectra of downregulated RNAs is negligible (CITATION). Hence, the majority of upregulated RNA targets in csl4-2 seedlings constitute a direct molecular signature of the CSL4-less exosome. Remarkably, many of the exosome targets upregulated in rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi samples were unaffected in the csl4-2 seedlings, including both nuclear-confined species (e.g., miRNA precursors, CITATION) as well as cytoplasmic RNAs (e.g., spliced mRNAs, CITATION). Therefore, the CSL4-less exosome is fully active on some of the exosome substrates in both cellular compartments. In addition, these data represent a valuable resource for narrowing down which of the exosome targets are essential for viability, via subtracting the csl4-2 upregulated dataset from the rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNA analyses. For example, the 7S pre-rRNA processing defect in the csl4-2 seedlings was as severe as in the RRP4- and RRP41-depleted seedlings (CITATIONG), and yet csl4-2 mutant plants are phenotypically indistinguishable from WT. A global comparative overview of similarities and differences in the expression changes among the csl4-2, rrp4iRNAi , and rrp41iRNA lines can be found in CITATION and CITATION and on the accompanying website (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/exosome). The following major classes of Arabidopsis exosome direct targets were defined by tiling microarray analysis of rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi plants: (1) small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs; 9 snRNA genes from both rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi ; CITATION); (2) the majority of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) encoded in the genome (83 and 96 snoRNA genes from rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi samples, respectively; CITATION); (3) a select subset of tRNA genes (20 and 14, respectively; CITATION); (4) an upregulated subset of Arabidopsis mRNAs (205 and 266 mRNAs, respectively; CITATION); (5) a subset of mRNAs that extend beyond their annotated 3′ end, indicative of 3′-processing defects (29 from both rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi ; CITATION); (6) a subset of specific pri-miRNA genes (12 from rrp4iRNAi and 11 from rrp41iRNAi ; CITATION); (7) a large class of previously uncharacterized noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs); many of these ncRNAs overlap with repetitive elements and small RNA (smRNA)-generating loci (210 and 156 ncRNAs, respectively; CITATION); and (8) a distinct class of previously undetected polyadenylated transcripts that map exclusively to the 5′ ends of known protein-coding mRNAs and hence may possess regulatory potential (52 from both rrp4iRNAi and rrp41iRNAi ; CITATION). Notably, while the overlap in the spectra of upregulated target RNAs revealed by the depletions of RRP4 and RRP41 was highly significant (∼64%), the extent of differences between them corroborates the notion of subfunctionalization of the subunits in the Arabidopsis exosome core (for example see CITATION). Taken together, these results circumscribe a complex spectrum of Arabidopsis exosome targets that spans RNAP I, II, III, and possibly RNAP IV transcripts and includes nuclear-restricted RNAs (e.g., pri-miRNAs), cytoplasmic RNAs (e.g., spliced mRNAs), as well as RNAs distributed between the two compartments. Interestingly, our array analyses identified appreciable amounts of polyadenylated RNA signals across the rDNA repeat unit even under normal conditions, which were dramatically upregulated upon depletion of RRP4 or RRP41 (CITATION). This increased and expanded signal corresponded largely to polyadenylated pre-rRNA precursors. For example, northern analysis targeting the sequences just downstream of 5.8S rRNA revealed an increase in a polyadenylated, 3′-underprocessed species of ∼2.4 kb (CITATIONC, top) that included both the 18S and 5.8S mature rRNA regions, while neither the nonpolyadenylated precursor (CITATIONC, bottom) nor the levels of mature rRNAs (data not shown) were affected. Furthermore, two major clusters of polyadenylation sites identified by 3′-RACE were both located outside of the boundaries of the mature rRNA (CITATION). These findings parallel observations in yeast, where targeting of pre-rRNA species for degradation by the exosome is mechanistically linked to their oligoadenylation by the TRAMP complex (CITATION). In addition, both tiling array and qPCR analyses revealed increased accumulation of poly(A)+ RNAs in the intergenic spacer region (IGS, CITATIONA and 3B). Notably, in mouse cells the IGS-derived RNA regulates the activity of the main rDNA promoter in an epigenetically stable manner (CITATION). Interestingly, depletion of RRP4 and RRP41 also impacted the abundance of polyadenylated RNAs of antisense polarity relative to rRNAs. For example, we observed a strong increase in transcripts complementary to the external transcribed spacer and to the 5′ half of 25S rRNA. Conversely, exosome depletion led to the significant decrease of a naturally occurring antisense RNA whose boundaries closely correspond to that of 18S rRNA. Notably, this polyadenylated antisense RNA is immediately flanked by polyadenylated sense RNA, suggestive of a mutually exclusive relationship. Moreover, in csl4-2 seedlings, where the upregulation of the sense poly(A)+ RNA in the 18S region does not occur, this antisense species is not downregulated (CITATIONA). Therefore, these findings may be indicative that rRNA C-related species are regulated by complementary antisense transcripts. Tiling array data also revealed that depletion of RRP4 and RRP41 resulted in dramatic increases in accumulation of poly(A)+ snRNAs (CITATION) and snoRNAs (CITATION), including those encoded by free-standing polycistronic clusters (CITATIONA–S5C), solitary genes (CITATIONA), as well as those embedded in introns of genes functionally related to protein synthesis (CITATION). The latter gene arrangement may help to coordinate snoRNA biogenesis with cellular demands on translation and is prevalent in animals, but it has been observed in Arabidopsis only once (CITATION). Moreover, we identified 3′-extended upregulated poly(A)+ snoRNAs (CITATIONA and S5B), which may represent either incompletely processed byproducts of snoRNA biogenesis targeted for degradation or normal processing intermediates. Several classes of Arabidopsis small stable RNAs constitute previously unknown exosome substrates. One example is the RNAP III-transcribed MRP/7-2 RNA (CITATIONE and S4F), which in yeast is processed by Rex3, not the exosome (CITATION). Second, we observed accumulation of a poly(A)+ form, as well as of the 3′-extended species of 7SL RNA, also an RNAP III transcript (CITATIONG–S5I and CITATION). Hence, the Arabidopsis exosome may degrade the poly(A)+ 7SL RNA during RNA quality control and/or process 3′-readthrough species into mature 7SL RNA. Notably, the scattered distribution of polyadenylation sites throughout the RNA body in MRP, 7SL, U12, and U3B RNAs (CITATION) is consistent with repeated cycles of oligoadenylation by TRAMP and exosomal “nibbling” (CITATION). Third, we observed strong accumulation of a poly(A)+ tRNATyr (CITATIOND; CITATION), which is different from the tRNA species downregulated by the exosome and TRAMP in yeast (CITATION). Biogenesis of plant tRNATyr requires highly ordered events of U35 → ψ35 modification and splicing (CITATION), hence this observation likely reflects the role of the exosome in proofreading of this complex process. Taken together, our observations of massive accumulation in exosome-depleted seedlings of poly(A)+ forms of many stable RNAs strongly suggest that oligoadenylation coupled to exosome-mediated RNA quality control and/or processing are fundamental features of plant gene expression. The exosome degrades poly(A)− intermediates of mRNA decay produced by deadenylating enzymes. Poly(A)− species cannot be detected in microarray experiments using oligo(dT)-primed targets. Nevertheless, a number of upregulated signals detected in the exosome-depleted Arabidopsis seedlings were protein-coding mRNAs (CITATION). Notably, transcripts from intronless genes were highly overrepresented in this category (p < 0.001), suggesting a significant enrichment for processed pseudogenes. Moreover, a surprising proportion of the upregulated regions were of antisense polarity (23.3% for rrp41iRNAi and 24.4% for rrp4iRNAi ). These findings suggest that sense and antisense poly(A)+ transcripts derived from potential pseudogenes in Arabidopsis are specifically and directly targeted for exosome-mediated 3′–5′ decay. Interestingly, a number of mRNAs targeted by the Arabidopsis exosome exhibit subunit-specific responses (CITATION). For example, the level of a putative glycosyltransferase mRNA (At5g54060) is increased upon the depletion of RRP4 but not of RRP41, while the opposite is true for a putative β-galactosidase mRNA (At5g56870; CITATIONA–4D). While the mechanistic basis of differential sensitivity to the depletion of RRP4 or RRP41 remains to be determined, these examples parallel their distinct mutant phenotypes and corroborate the notion of subfunctionalization of the Arabidopsis exosome core subunits. Unexpectedly, tiling array experiments also revealed a number of mRNAs with extended 3′ ends but whose absolute levels were unaffected (CITATION; CITATIONE and 4F). This may be indicative of Arabidopsis exosome-mediated degradation of aberrant readthrough mRNAs although we cannot rule out the alternative possibility that the exosome participates in 3′ end formation of some mRNAs. Depletion of RRP4 and RRP41 also revealed significant increases in pri-miRNA transcripts (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, the increased signal was mostly located upstream of the stem-loop structure that harbors the miRNA/miRNA∗ duplex, while the downstream segments were usually unaffected (CITATIONA), and the levels of mature miRNAs were also unchanged (CITATIONC). In addition, our analyses revealed novel polyadenylated intermediates corresponding to the region between the miRNA and miRNA∗ (CITATIOND, CITATIONB, and CITATION). Together, these findings delineate a 3′–5′ pathway of removal of upstream and middle (loop) byproducts involving TRAMP-like and exosome activities (CITATIONA). Although these exosome-dependent reactions do not appear rate limiting for biogenesis of mature miRNAs, they likely facilitate efficient recycling of the pre-miRNA processing factors. Surprisingly, our 3′-RACE analyses of the upregulated signal in the pri-miRNA168a transcript demonstrated that in the majority of cases (72%) polyadenylation occurred immediately upstream of the mature miRNA sequence (CITATIONB and CITATIONC), indicating that pri-miRNA168a is often cleaved directly at the precursor/miRNA boundary. These findings are inconsistent with the proposed two-step pathway of plant miRNA biogenesis via an initial processing of pri-miRNA into pre-miRNA, followed by processing of pre-miRNA into mature miRNA (CITATION), and suggest the existence of possible alternative pathways. Additionally, tiling microarray experiments revealed the accumulation of numerous poly(A)+ transcripts that have neither protein-coding potential nor predicted functions. Significantly, a large fraction of these RNA species escaped detection in previous transcriptome analyses (CITATION), apparently because their steady-state levels in WT plants are tightly downregulated via exosome-mediated degradation (CITATION). Notably, there was a highly significant overlap among these RNAs in rrp4iRNAi , rrp41iRNAi , and csl4-2 samples (CITATIONC). Remarkably, these novel exosome-specific RNAs exhibit a strikingly nonrandom association with small RNA-producing loci, as well as with repeated sequences: 72% from rrp4iRNAi and 63% from rrp41iRNAi (p < 0.001; CITATIONA and 6B). Furthermore, we often observed the accumulation of complementary RNAs of both polarities (CITATIONC and 6E). Another characteristic example concerns an exosome-specific sense/antisense transcript pair emanating from a repetitive sequence element containing 42 bp interspersed tandem subrepeats (CITATIONG). Such sense/antisense transcript pairs serve as precursors for the ∼24 nt endogenous heterochromatic small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that guide RNA-dependent DNA methylation (RdDM) and H3K9 methylation of transposon and tandem repeat loci (CITATION). Therefore, we confirmed the increased expression of the 5S rDNA region that gives rise to siRNA1003 in RRP4- and RRP41-depleted seedlings, as well as csl4-2 mutant plants (mature 5S rRNA levels were unaffected; CITATIONC and 6D). Notably, the novel exosome-specific ncRNAs are preferentially associated with centromeric and pericentromeric regions of the Arabidopsis genome highly coincident with repetitive elements and DNA methylation (CITATION), while exosome-regulated mRNAs are excluded from these regions (CITATIONH). Hence, the Arabidopsis exosome may have a general role in quality control of RdDM-associated siRNA biogenesis precursors and/or degrade heterochromatin-associated RNAs, as shown for heterochromatic silencing of select loci in S. pombe (CITATION). Overall, these data suggest that the Arabidopsis exosome plays an important role in regulating heterochromatin-associated transcripts. Another remarkable example of a novel ncRNA upregulated upon exosome knockdown was an ∼4 kb long transcript lacking significant protein-coding capacity but conserved in closely related dicots (e.g., Capsella rubella, CITATIONA–7C). Curiously, sequence conservation between the Arabidopsis and Capsella transcripts is confined to two interspersed short direct repeats 16 nt and 24 nt in length (CITATIONB and CITATION), suggesting that these small conserved segments constitute its functionally important elements. For example, they might serve as recognition sites for RNA-binding proteins or be processed out to form small RNAs. These repeated segments do not reside in secondary structures resembling DICER substrates, thus their processing would likely have a distinct mechanistic basis. Perhaps the most intriguing category of exosome targets was a distinct subclass of ncRNAs colinear with the 5′ ends of known protein-coding transcripts (CITATION and CITATIOND and 7E). We propose that the origin of these ncRNAs (hereafter called upstream noncoding transcripts, or UNTs) is distinct from that of the overlapping “main” RNAP II transcription units. First, they are unlikely to be derived from cytoplasmic mRNA degradation because the exosome enters the decay pathway after mRNA deadenylation and degrades the mRNA body processively in a 3′–5′ direction. Hence, exosome depletion would cause an accumulation of deadenylated, full-length transcripts and/or heterogeneous populations of 3′-truncated poly(A)− fragments with endpoints scattered throughout the mRNA body (CITATION). In contrast, the UNTs are collinear only with the 5′ ends of known mRNAs (CITATION). Also, UNTs frequently extend into the first intron of respective overlapping genes. The possibility that UNTs derive from the pre-mRNAs is highly improbable, particularly when the UNT is more abundant than the corresponding mRNA (CITATIOND and 7E). The striking association of Arabidopsis UNTs with the 5′ ends of RNAP II transcription units must reflect some aspect of their biogenesis or function. Several features of UNTs are reminiscent of cryptic unstable transcripts (CUTs) in yeast, which are present at very low levels in WT cells (CITATION). CUTs are frequently associated with promoters of protein-coding genes, and while some may merely reflect transcriptional noise, others may also have biological functions (CITATION). Moreover, recent detailed mapping of the human transcriptome also revealed an abundant class of promoter-associated short (up to 200 nt) ncRNAs, termed PASRs (CITATION), which also may act as negative regulators of the main transcription units (CITATION). Although UNTs may differ from both CUTs and PASRs because their 5′ ends appear to coincide with those of the main RNAP II transcripts (CITATIOND and CITATION), our results suggest that the exosome-regulated ncRNAs associated with 5′ ends of genes likely represent a fundamental regulatory feature of eukaryotic transcriptomes. We combined genetic, proteomic, and whole-transcriptome analyses to investigate the function of the exosome complex in the multicellular eukaryote Arabidopsis thaliana. We find that individual subunits of the plant exosome are functionally specialized, ranging from being dispensable for growth and development (CSL4) to being essential for the development of female gametophytes (RRP41) or embryogenesis (RRP4). Moreover, the plant exosome complex lacking its CSL4 subunit is partially intact and functional. These findings demonstrate an unexpected degree of functional plasticity in the plant exosome core. Our whole-genome tiling array analyses revealed numerous novel exosome substrates, new metabolic aspects of several known important RNA species, a broad role of the exosome in regulation of ncRNAs associated with heterochromatic regions, as well as the widespread occurrence of polyadenylation- and exosome-mediated RNA quality control in plants. Furthermore, our findings reveal a “deeply hidden” layer of the transcriptome composed of intergenic noncoding transcripts that are tightly downregulated by constitutive exosome activity. Finally, a publicly available exosome-regulated transcriptome database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/exosome) should aid in illuminating new fundamental components and regulatory mechanisms in complex eukaryotic transcriptomes.
!~MM~! Mutant alleles csl4-1 and csl4-2 correspond to SALK_004561 (CITATION) and FLAG_055B05 lines, respectively. The rrp4-1 allele is SALK_025995, rrp41-2 and rrp41-3 are SALK_139189 and SALK_112819, respectively, while rrp41-1 was isolated from the University of Wisconsin BASTA population. WT plants of matching accessions were used in all reciprocal crosses (Col-0 for all Salk alleles and Ws for FLAG and University of Wisconsin alleles). For complementation with the WT and TAP tagged transgenes, respective heterozygotes were transformed (CITATION) and the progeny plants lacking the WT allele and containing both the T-DNA insertion allele and the transgene identified by PCR. TAP purification protocol was adapted from CITATION. The Coomassie-stained protein bands were treated with trypsin using an In-Gel Digestion kit (Pierce), and dried peptides dissolved in 50% acetonitrile, 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid with 5 mg/ml alpha 4-hydroxycinnamic acid as a matrix. 0.6 μl of peptide/matrix mix was loaded onto the 6AB MALDI sample plate, dried, and subjected to MALDI-TOF MS and subsequent MS/MS analyses using the 4700 Proteomics Analyzer and GPS software (Applied BioSystems). A combination of peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) and MS/MS sequencing analysis was performed using the Mascot search engine. Fragmentation of the precursors was carried out using the collision-induced dissociation (CID). CID spectra were submitted for protein identifications with a precursor precision tolerance of 1 Da and MS/MS fragment tolerance of 0.5 Da. A criterion of correct protein identification was a confidence interval exceeding 95%, which was a combination of protein scores from PMF and ion scores from MS/MS sequencing. RNAi cassettes contained 940 bp (RRP4) or 788 bp (RRP41) fragments of the target cDNA sequence as a pair of inverted repeats, separated by the FAD2 intron in the pER8 vector backbone (CITATION). For iRNAi, seedlings were germinated and grown for ≤7 days on 8 μM of 17β-estradiol. Polyacrylamide Northern blot analyses were performed as described (CITATION). Transcripts were quantified by RT qPCR using the comparative threshold cycle method (ΔΔCt, primers listed in CITATION), using Actin 3 (At3g53750) as endogenous reference. Fifteen micrograms of total RNA extracted using TRIzol (Invitrogen) was used to synthesize double-stranded cDNA using the GeneChip One-Cycle cDNA Synthesis Kit (Affymetrix). Biotin-labeled cRNA was generated using the GeneChip IVT Labeling Kit and fragmented, and 15 μg of cRNA was hybridized to Arabidopsis tiling arrays (CITATION). Hybridization, staining, and washing were performed according to the Affymetrix Eukaryotic Target Protocol. A minimum of two biological replicates were performed for each of the three genotypes, the empty vector (referred to as WT for brevity), rrp4iRNAi , and rrp41iRNAi , using estradiol or control (DMSO) treatment. The TileMap tiling array analysis software package (CITATION) was used to detect statistically significant differences in transcriptional activity in the tiling microarray data as described in CITATION and further detailed in the CITATION.
