!~ABS~! Golgins are large coiled-coil proteins that play a role in tethering of vesicles to Golgi membranes and in maintaining the overall structure of the Golgi apparatus. Six Arabidopsis proteins with the structural characteristics of golgins were isolated and shown to locate to Golgi stacks when fused to GFP. Two of these golgin candidates (GC1 and GC2) possess C-terminal transmembrane (TM) domains with similarity to the TM domain of human golgin-84. The C-termini of two others (GC3/GDAP1 and GC4) contain conserved GRAB and GA1 domains that are also found in yeast Rud3p and human GMAP210. GC5 shares similarity with yeast Sgm1p and human TMF and GC6 with yeast Uso1p and human p115. When fused to GFP, the C-terminal domains of AtCASP and GC1 to GC6 localized to the Golgi, showing that they contain Golgi localization motifs. The N-termini, on the other hand, label the cytosol or nucleus. Immuno-gold labelling and co-expression with the cis Golgi Q-SNARE Memb11 resulted in a more detailed picture of the sub-Golgi location of some of these putative golgins. Using two independent assays it is further demonstrated that the interaction between GC5, the TMF homologue, and the Rab6 homologues is conserved in plants.
!~RES~! cDNAs of six large coiled-coil proteins from Arabidopsis were amplified from Arabidopsis cell culture or leaf cDNA and fused to the 3’ end of the mGFP5 gene (CITATION) in binary vectors. The proteins had previously been noted to share sequence similarity with golgins from mammals and yeast (CITATION, 2004; CITATION; CITATION), although the regions of significant similarity were mainly confined to specific domains (Table 1). To save confusion, the proteins were arbitrarily named GC1 to GC6 (for Golgin Candidate 1 to 6). One of them, GC3, has recently been named GDAP1 by CITATION. The six GFP fusion proteins were expressed in tobacco CB137 epidermal cells using infiltration of a suspension of Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying the appropriate construct (agroinfiltration). The tobacco line CB137 stably expresses the signal anchor sequence of a rat sialyl transferase fused to mRFP (ST-mRFP) as a Golgi marker (Fig. 1I; CITATION). GFP-fusions of the previously characterized putative Arabidopsis golgins AtGRIP and AtCASP were included for comparison (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The AtGRIP and AtCASP fusions both co-located with ST-mRFP, as was reported previously (Fig. 1A, B). GC3/GDAP1 had previously been shown to co-locate with another Golgi marker, ERD2 (CITATION; CITATION) and, thus, its co-localization with ST-mRFP confirms the Golgi localization of this protein (Fig. 1E). GC1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 also labelled the same organelles as ST-mRFP, suggesting that they too are Golgi proteins. At higher magnification, GFP-AtCASP, GFP-GC1, and GFP-GC2 were observed as green fluorescent rings around the ST-mRFP-fluorescent bodies (Fig. 1B–D). When these fusion proteins were expressed at high levels, Golgi stacks were sometimes observed to aggregate into large clusters (results not shown). GFP-GC3/GDAP1 and GFP-GC4 displayed similar rings around the Golgi stacks, but were also detected on structures that did not co-locate with ST-mRFP (Fig. 1E, F, arrows). In the case of GC3/GDAP1, these non-Golgi structures have been studied in more detail (CITATION). They were shown to be identical to ARF-GFP-labelled structures that can bud from the Golgi and that can also be stained by the stryryl dye FM4-64, suggesting that it concerns a post-Golgi compartment (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). GFP-GC5 similarly appeared as rings around Golgi stacks, but a relatively high level of GFP fluorescence was also detected in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1G). GFP-GC6 concentrated on one side of the ST-mRFP-labelled Golgi body (Fig. 1H). In the case of GFP-GC6, only a minority of cells showed Golgi labelling, presumably reflecting the sensitivity of location to expression levels. Most cells accumulated the GFP-fusion protein in large structures that appeared to be membrane-bounded, frequently rounded and sometimes elongated in shape (see Supplementary data Supplementary Data at JXB online). It was not possible to assess the nature of these structures and it is speculated that they are either involved in degradation of a surplus of the GFP-GC6 fusion protein or are formed from aggregated Golgi. GFP-GC1 to GFP-GC5 were also expressed in wild-type tobacco leaves in the presence of ST-YFP (transient expression) and the co-labelling patterns were the same as the ones described for ST-mRFP (results not shown). AtGRIP located to Golgi stacks regardless of whether it was fused to the N-terminus or the C-terminus of GFP (CITATION). By contrast, when AtCASP and GC1 to GC5 were fused to the N-terminus of GFP, their labelling patterns were reminiscent of cytoplasmic labelling. In the case of GC3-GFP and GC4-GFP, large aggregates were also observed (results not shown). GFP-GC6 and GC6-GFP showed the same combination of Golgi labelling in some cells and the previously described large structures in others. In addition, EYFP (a GFP derivative with high quantum yield) was inserted between amino acid no. 389 and 390 of GC6 (nGC6:EYFP:cGC6). The nGC6:EYFP:cGC6 fusion protein, again, resulted in the same labelling patterns as GFP-GC6 (Golgi stacks and large unidentified structures). Co-expression of this construct with ST-mRFP also showed a similar distribution of YFP fluorescence on one side of the ST-labelled Golgi stacks (see Supplementary data Supplementary Data at JXB online). Figure 2 is a schematic representation of the domain structures of AtGRIP, AtCASP, and GC1 to GC6. Arabidopsis large coiled-coil domain proteins have been annotated in the Arabicoil database (www.coiled-coil.org/Arabidopsis/; CITATION). The positions and sizes of the predicted coiled-coil domains in the golgins were derived from this database and drawn to scale. The sequences of our GC1 and GC5 cDNA clones showed that the splicing patterns giving rise to the corresponding mature mRNAs differed from those reported in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) database (www.Arabidopsis.org). In the case of GC1, four splicing events differed between our sequence and the sequence in the database and in GC5 only one was different. The programme Paircoil (http://paircoil2.csail.mit.edu/) was used to predict positions and sizes of the coiled-coil domains in GC1 and GC5. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtGRIP possesses a C-terminal GRIP domain sharing up to 50% identity with GRIP domains from four human golgins (CITATION). AtCASP shows 32% overall amino acid identity to human CASP and has a single C-terminal TM domain (CITATION). Two TM prediction programmes, DAS-domain prediction (CITATION) and TMPRED (CITATION), predicted that GC1 and GC2 similarly possess single C-terminal TM domains. These TM domain are 50% and 46% identical, respectively, to the TM domain of human golgin-84, and GC1 and GC2 have the same predicted membrane topology as golgin-84 (Fig. 3A). The alignments of the full-length proteins are presented in Supplementary Supplementary Data at JXB online. GC1 and GC2 share 17% overall identity and 56% similarity. Short regions in the C-termini of GC3/GDAP1 and GC4 are 32% and 30% identical, respectively, to the C-terminal GRAB domain of the human golgin GMAP210 (Fig. 3B). Downstream of the GRAB domain in both GC3 and GC4, a second motif was detected, called the GRAB-associated 1 (GA1) motif. This motif is also conserved in the GRAB domain proteins from other organisms (CITATION). GC3 and GC4 are 70% identical at the protein level. The most C-terminal predicted coiled-coil domain of GC5 shows sequence similarity to the C-terminus of human TMF (32% amino acid identity in the C-terminal 109 amino acids). This region is also conserved in the yeast golgin Sgm1p and single proteins from Neurospora crassa and Drosophila melanogaster (CITATION; Fig. 3C). Finally, the N-terminus of GC6 shows 40% amino acid identity with human p115 (Fig. 3D). The N-terminus of p115 is predicted to be a globular domain to an otherwise rod-like structure (CITATION). As is the case in both human p115 and yeast Uso1p, this domain is followed by two regions of coiled-coil in GC6. A region similar to the short C-terminal acidic domain found in p115 and Uso1p can also be distinguished in GC6 but it contains fewer acidic amino acids and is, therefore, less distinct (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] According to CITATION the predominant Golgi-localization signal in human golgin-84 resides in the C-terminal domain, encompassing the TM domain and approximately 100 amino acids preceding the TM domain. C-terminal domains of GC1 (amino acids 558–715) and GC2 (amino acids 508–668), comprising the TM domains and 100–115 amino acids upstream, were fused to the C-terminus of GFP. The resulting fusion proteins GFP-cGC1 and GFP-cGC2 both co-located with ST-mRFP in CB137 epidermal cells and labelled ring-shaped structures around Golgi bodies. Their labelling patterns were indistinguishable from the corresponding GFP-labelled full-length proteins (Fig. 4A, B), although at high expression levels, GFP-cGC2 accumulated on small, structures of unidentified nature (Fig. 4C). The GC1 and GC2 N-termini (amino acids 1–558 for GC1 and 1–508 for GC2) fused to the C-terminus of GFP resulted in cytoplasmic labelling, as well as labelling of the nucleus in the case of the GC2 N-terminus (see Supplementary data Supplementary Data at JXB online). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The GRAB domain-containing C-termini of yeast Rud3p and human GMAP210 provide the Golgi-localization signal for these proteins (CITATION). To test if the localization signals in GC3/GDAP1 and GC4 also reside in the C-terminus, fusion proteins with GFP were prepared of the C-terminal 161 and 169 amino acids of GC3/GDAP1 and GC4, respectively. The resulting fusion proteins were named GFP-GRAB3 and GFP-GRAB4 and encompass the conserved GRAB and GA1 domains. The fusion proteins were expressed in tobacco CB137 epidermal cells and both labelled ring-like structures that co-located with ST-mRFP (Fig. 4D, E). Additional fluorescent structures were detected that did not co-locate with ST-mRFP, similar to those observed with full-length GFP-GC3/GDAP1 and GFP-GC4. The N-terminal domain of GC3/GDAP (amino acids 1–551) showed cytoplasmic labelling whereas in the case of GC4 (amino acids 1–556), the fluorescence was predominantly found in the nucleus (see Supplementary data Supplementary Data at JXB online). The C-terminal 139 amino acids of GC5 (cGC5), containing the region of similarity with human TMF and yeast Sgm1p, targeted GFP to Golgi stacks and to the cytoplasm, again showing very similar fluorescence to the corresponding full-length protein GFP-GC5 (Fig. 4F). Fluorescence was observed in the cytoplasm and around the nucleus with the N-terminus of GC6 (amino acids 1–817) fused to GFP (see Supplementary data Supplementary Data at JXB online). The C-terminal 225 amino acids of GC6 encompass the region that corresponds to the region in human p115 which binds Rab1 and is responsible for Golgi targeting. This part of GC6 was fused to the C-terminus of GFP and the fusion protein showed the same distribution as full-length GFP-GC6 (Fig. 4G); some cells with clear Golgi labelling and others with large, irregularly-shaped GFP-fluorescent structures. To characterize further which regions of the Golgi stacks were labelled with the GFP-tagged golgin candidates, the fusion proteins were co-expressed with a fusion protein of the Arabidopsis Q-SNARE Memb11 (CITATION) and YFP. The human and yeast homologues of Memb11 (called Membrin and Bos1, respectively), are cis Golgi SNARE proteins (CITATION). It has been shown that overexpression of YFP-Memb11 in tobacco epidermal cells causes ERD2, the Arabidopsis homologue of the H/KDEL receptor (CITATION), to redistribute to the ER (CITATION). This effect was not found with other SNARE-XFP fusion proteins. Memb11 is therefore most likely involved in processes related to transport at the ER–Golgi interface or cis Golgi (CITATION). High magnification images of YFP-Memb11 in CB137 plants suggested that its location overlaps with, but does not fully coincide with, ST-mRFP (Fig. 5H). Furthermore, it has previously been shown that it locates to the opposite side of the stack to AtGRIP-GFP in a ST-mRFP/YFP-Memb11/AtGRIP-GFP triple labelled cell (CITATION). This led to the suggestion that AtGRIP is a trans-Golgi or TGN protein. When GFP-AtCASP and GFP-GC1 to GFP-GC5 were co-expressed with YFP-Memb11 in tobacco CB137 epidermal cells, triple-labelled Golgi were detected in cells expressing low levels of each of the three fluorescent proteins. YFP-Memb11 was detected precisely in the centre of the rings formed by GFP-AtCASP and GFP-GC1 to GFP-GC5 (Fig. 5A–F). In the case of GFP-AtCASP and GFP-GC1 to GC4, the GFP and YFP signals both located slightly to one side of the area labelled by ST-mRFP (especially clear in the insets to Fig. 5B and D). This localization of AtCASP and GC1 to GC4 relative to Memb11 clearly differs from that of AtGRIP, indicating that they locate to a different part of the Golgi to the GRIP domain protein, most likely the cis Golgi area. Due to the fainter Golgi fluorescence of GFP-GC5 and the higher level of fluorescence in the cytoplasm, its location relative to ST-mRFP was difficult to discern. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To study the location of three of the eight putative Arabidopsis golgins in more detail, tobacco leaves expressing AtGRIP-GFP, GFP-CASP, and GFP-GC1 were high-pressure frozen and labelled with an anti-GFP antibody and a gold-conjugated secondary antibody. In the case of AtGRIP, the gold label was predominantly found in trans-Golgi cisternae and on vesicular or tubular structures adjoining the trans-Golgi, presumably the TGN, (see Fig. 6A–D for representative images). In GFP-AtCASP (Fig. 6E, F) and GFP-GC1 (Fig. 6G, H) expressing cells, gold label was mainly detected in the often bulbous margins of the cisternae. No gold label was found associated with Golgi stacks in control leaves. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal domain of the yeast golgin Sgm1p interacts with the yeast Rab6 homologue, Ypt6p, which recruits Sgm1p to Golgi membranes (CITATION). TMF, the human homologue of Sgm1p, binds the three human Rab6 isoforms, but not Rab1 (CITATION). To investigate whether the interaction between TMF and Rab6 is conserved in Arabidopsis, the C-terminus of GC5 and the two Arabidopsis Rab6 homologues, RabH1b and RabH1c (CITATION; CITATION), were used in a yeast two-hybrid assay. cGC5 was fused to the Gal4-binding domain (GBD-cGC5) and both Rab6 homologues were fused to the Gal4-activation domain (GAD-RabH1b and GAD-RabH1c, respectively). The test showed a clear interaction between cGC5 and both RabH1b and RabH1c (Fig. 7A). By contrast, GBD-cGC5 did not interact with the Rab1 homologue RabD2a (CITATION), nor did the C-terminus of GC3/GDAP1 (GRAB3) interact with any of the three GAD-Rab proteins. Next, RabH1b and RabH1c were fused to glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and cGC5 to a six histidine tag. GST-RabH1b and GST-RabH1c were immobilized on glutathione agarose and incubated with an Escherichia coli lysate of a strain producing His6-cGC5. The interacting proteins were eluted, separated on SDS-PAGE, and detected using an anti-His6 antibody on western blot. His6-cGC5 showed a strong interaction with both GST-RabH1b and GST-RabH1c and the interactions were equally efficient in the presence of GDP and GTP (Fig. 7B). No binding was detected between His6-cGC5 and GST-fusions of the two Rab1 homologues RabD1 and RabD2A (Fig. 7B). Again, a His6-tagged version of GRAB3 failed to interact with any of the four GST-tagged Rab proteins. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used as described in CITATION. Primers were obtained from MWG Biotech (Ebersberg, Germany) or from Invitrogen (Paisley, UK). Restriction enzymes were from New England Biolabs (Herts, UK). Expand HiFi polymerase (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) or Phusion high fidelity DNA polymerase (New English biolabs) were used for PCR. All PCR products were sequenced using the Big Dye Terminator v3.1 cycle sequencing kit (Applied Biosystems, Foster City. USA). Full length sequences for GC6, GC1, GC5, GC2, GC4, and GC3 were submitted to GenBank (accession numbers EU249327 to EU249332). The BLAST algorithm (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/) or (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/Blast/) was used for similarity searches. CLUSTALW (http://npsa-pbil.ibcp.fr/cgi-bin/npsa_automat.pl?page=npsa_clustalw.html; Pole BioInformatique Lyonnais) was used to align Arabidopsis proteins with proteins from other organisms and to obtain similarity or identity values. Total RNA from an Arabidopsis Col-0 cell suspension culture or from Arabidopsis Col-0 leaves or flower buds was used in a first strand cDNA synthesis reaction (Superscript III, Invitrogen, Paisley, UK) using an oligo dT20 primer. The cDNAs of AtGRIP, AtCASP, and GC1 to GC6 were amplified from this cDNA pool using forward and reverse primers corresponding to the 5′ end and the 3′ ends of the open reading frames, respectively. The sequence preceding the start codon in the forward primers was AGGCGCGCCAAAA, where the AscI site is underlined. The reverse primer extension following the stop codon was AAAAAAGCGGCCGCGCC, with the NotI sequence underlined. Using the AscI and NotI sites, the cDNAs were cloned into pENTR-1a-MCS (CITATION). From pENTR-1a-MCS, the cDNAs were transferred to the binary vectors pMDC83 and pMDC43 (CITATION), using the Gateway cloning system, following instructions provided by the manufacturer (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK). In pMDC83, Gateway recombination sites precede the mGFP5 gene (CITATION), whereas in pMDC43 they are situated at the 3′ of the mGFP5 gene. YFP-Memb11 has been described previously by CITATION. To construct GFP-cGC1, GFP-cGC2, GFP-GRAB3, GFP-GRAB4, GFP-cGC5, and GFP-cGC6, C-terminal fragments were amplified from the respective cDNAs using the forward primers TCACGCCAGGAGCATACAG (cGC1), ACTGAAGTGGAAATTGAAC (cGC2), ATGACAAGGCTCAATAGAAT (GRAB3), ATGACAAGGCTCAATAGAAT (GRAB4), CAAGCTTCTCTTGATTCTTCAG (cGC5) and TATAGTCGGCCAAAAAGTG (cGC6), respectively, the primer sequences were again preceded by AGGCGCGCCAAAA, in combination with the reverse primers previously used to amplify the full-length cDNAs. The C-terminal fragments were cloned into pENTR-1a-MCS using the Asc1 and Not1 sites and transferred to pMDC43 using the Gateway system. To create nGC6:EYFP:cGC6, a fragment encoding amino acids 1–389 of GC6 was amplified using the XbaI site-containing forward primer CTCTAGAACTAGTATGGATTTGGCATCC and TGGATCCTGATCTCGGGATGTGGGA, with a BamHI site, as the reverse primer. The second fragment, corresponding to the amino acids 390–925 was amplified using CGGATCCTCTAGAAGATGATGTTCA, containing a BamHI site and the reverse primer TGAGCTCTCAGTCTTCTTCAGA containing a SacI site. The stop codon of EYFP (Clontech, Moutain View, USA) was removed, and the EYFP sequence was inserted into GC6 using newly created BamH1 sites. The resulting fragment was cloned into the binary vector pVKH18-En6 (CITATION) using the XbaI and SacI sites. RabH1b, RabH1c, RabD1, and RabD2A (CITATION) were amplified with forward primers containing BamH1 sites and reverse primers containing HindIII sites. The PCR fragments of RabH1b, RabH1c, RabD1, and RabD2A were inserted into the BamH1 and HindIII sites of pRP265 (CITATION) to create fusion proteins with GST. cGC5 and GRAB3 were inserted into the BamH1 and HindIII sites of pQE-30 (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) to fuse it with the six-histidine tag. For the yeast two-hybrid assay, cDNAs were amplified using primers containing Sma1 sites. The PCR fragments were digested with SmaI and inserted into pGBKT7 (BD Biosciences Clontech, Moutain View, USA) for fusions to the GAL4 binding domain (GBD) and into pGADT7-Rec for fusions to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD). Wild-type Nicotiana tabacum plants and N. tabacum line CB137 plants were grown in a greenhouse at 22 °C (day temperature) and 18 °C (night temperature) with a minimum of 16 h light. Each construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 or AGL1 by electroporation or heat shock. Agrobacterium expression was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, overnight Agrobacterium cultures strains were centrifuged (6 min; 2600 g) and the pellets resuspended in 5 ml (10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MES pH 5.6, 150 μM acetosyringone). The bacterial suspension was diluted with the same buffer to adjust the inoculum concentration to the final OD600 value (see figure legends). Infiltrations were performed as described in CITATION. For experiments requiring co-infection of more than one construct, bacterial strains containing the constructs were mixed prior to the leaf infiltration, with the inoculum of each mixed construct adjusted to the required final OD600. Imaging was conducted on a Leica TCS-SP2 AOBS using an HCX APO 63×/0.90w water dipping lens. GFP was imaged using 488 nm excitation and its emission was collected from 500–520 nm or from 500–510 nm if imaged in combination with YFP. For mRFP, excitation at 561 nm was used and emission collected at 600–620 nm. The excitation wavelength for YFP was 514 nm and its emission was recorded at 535–545 nm. GFP and mRFP were imaged simultaneously, whereas GFP and YFP or YFP and mRFP were imaged sequentially using a line by line mode. The optimal pinhole diameter was maintained at all times. Post-acquisition image processing was done using Photoshop 8.0 software (Adobe Systems Incorporated, USA). 2 mm diameter discs from expressing leaves were taken using a disposable biopsy punch (Stiefel Laboratories Ltd, Wooburn Green, UK), and placed in an aluminium sample holder. Prior to capping the sample holder, the sample was covered with MES buffer Pairs of holders were clamped together and samples were immediately frozen using a BAL-TEC HPM 010 high-pressure freezer. Freeze-substitution was carried out in a Reichert AFS (Leica, Vienna, Austria) freeze-substitution system. Sample holders were split open under liquid nitrogen and placed into plastic porous specimen pots containing the substitution medium (0.5% uranyl acetate in 100% ethanol) previously frozen in liquid nitrogen. Plastic specimen pots were put into a universal aluminium container onto the surface of the frozen substitution medium and transferred into the Reichert AFS precooled to –160 °C. Sample temperature was increased to –85 °C over 5 h. Freeze-substitution was carried out by slowly warming the samples at 1 °C per hour to –20 °C. Samples were rinsed in cold ethanol and, after careful removal from the sample holders, embedded stepwise in LR White medium resin (Agar Scientific, Stansted, Essex, England) over one week. Polymerization was under UV light for 24 h at –20 °C and for another 24 h at 0 °C. Ultrathin sections were cut with a RMC Powertome XL ultramicrotome (RMC, Tucson, Arizona, USA) and collected on formvar-coated 300 mesh hexagon copper grids (Agar Scientific, Stansted, Essex, England). For immunolabelling, sections were incubated by floating the grids on droplets of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) pH 7 containing 50 mM glycine for 15 min to inactivate residual free aldehyde groups. They were then incubated with blocking solution for goat gold conjugates (PBS, pH 7.4, 5% BSA, 0.1% CWFS gelatine, 5% normal serum 10 mM sodium azide) (Aurion, Wageningen, Netherlands) for 1 h, and equilibrated by washing on IGL buffer (PBS pH 7.4; 0.1% BSA-c; 0.1% Tween-20), three times for 5 min. They were then transferred to anti-GFP antiserum (ab290; AbCam, Cambridge, UK), diluted 1:2000 in IGL buffer, for 1 h at room temperature. The diluted antiserum had been pre-absorbed overnight with approximately 1 mg Nicotiana tabacum protein extract (frozen ground leaf tissue washed in acetone) at room temperature. The grids were washed six times for 5 min with IGL buffer and incubated on secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit IgG antibody conjugated with 15 nm gold, Amersham Biosciences, Buckinghamshire, UK), diluted 1:50 in IGL buffer, for 2 h with gentle agitation. The grids were extensively washed in IGL buffer (3 times 5 min), PBS (3 times 5 min), 0.1 M phosphate buffer (2 times 5 min) and ddH2O (5 times 2 min) and dried. Sections were stained with uranyl acetate followed by lead citrate and examined under a Phillips CM10 transmission electron microscope. The specificity and reliability of the immuno-gold labelling were tested by two negative controls; either, the primary antiserum was omitted to test for unspecific labelling of the goat anti-rabbit IgG antibody–gold conjugate, or sections from untransformed control leaves (i.e. lacking GFP) were used to test the specificity of the primary antiserum. Yeast strain AH109 was sequentially transformed with a pGBKT7 bait vector and a pGADT7-Rec prey vector using a lithium acetate method (CITATION). Colonies were selected on synthetic plates lacking histidine, tryptophan, leucine, and adenine for up to 7 d. Positive yeast transformants were replated on plates containing X-α-gal (Clontech) to test the expression of the reporter gene MEL1. For in vitro binding studies, GST fusion proteins were produced in E. coli JM109 cells, bound to glutathione sepharose beads (Sigma Aldrich, Gillingham, UK), purified and loaded with GDP or GTPγS (Sigma Aldrich) as previously described (CITATION). Affinity chromatography was carried out as described by CITATION. A lysate was prepared of E. coli JM109 expressing a His6-tagged protein. The lysate was incubated with sepharose-bound GST fusion proteins, in the presence of GDP or GTPγS for 2 h at 4 °C. The interacting proteins were eluted in elution buffer [(20 mM Tris pH 8.0, 1.5 M NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol and 1 mM of the opposite nucleotide (GTPγS or GDP)]. The eluates were analysed on SDS-PAGE and blotted onto nitrocellulose (Schleicher and Schuell, Dassel, Germany). Western blots were probed with an anti-His6 antibody conjugated with HRP (Sigma Aldrich) in (PBS, 0.1% Tween 20, 5% milk powder) and developed using the ECL detection system (Amersham biosciences, Buckinghamshire, UK).
