!~ABS~! The GNOM protein plays a fundamental role in Arabidopsis thaliana development by regulating endosome–to–plasma membrane trafficking required for polar localization of the auxin efflux carrier PIN1. GNOM is a family member of large ARF guanine nucleotide exchange factors (ARF-GEFs), which regulate vesicle formation by activating ARF GTPases on specific membranes in animals, plants, and fungi. However, apart from the catalytic exchange activity of the SEC7 domain, the functional significance of other conserved domains is virtually unknown. Here, we show that a distinct N-terminal domain of GNOM mediates dimerization and in addition interacts heterotypically with two other conserved domains in vivo. In contrast with N-terminal dimerization, the heterotypic interaction is essential for GNOM function, as mutations abolishing this interaction inactivate the GNOM protein and compromise its membrane association. Our results suggest a general model of large ARF-GEF function in which regulated changes in protein conformation control membrane association of the exchange factor and, thus, activation of ARFs.
!~RES~! The amino acid sequence and secondary structure of the DCB domain is highly conserved in large ARF-GEFs across eukaryotes (CITATION; CITATION), suggesting its functional conservation. The DCB domain of the Arabidopsis thaliana large ARF-GEF GNOM has been suggested to mediate dimerization by homotypic interaction based on yeast two-hybrid and in vitro experiments, although this interaction was not shown in planta (CITATION). We therefore investigated whether the DCB–DCB interaction occurs in vivo by analyzing differentially epitope-tagged GNOM variants for interaction in transgenic plants. These GNOM proteins were full length (GNOM-Myc and GNOM-HA), lacked the DCB domain (GNOMΔDCB-Myc and GNOMΔDCB-HA), or had their DCB domain replaced with a heterologous dimerization module, XLIM and XLDB (XLIM-GNOMΔDCB-Myc and XLDB-GNOMΔDCB-HA) (CITATION). GNOM-HA interacted with GNOM-Myc, whereas no in vivo interaction was observed between GNOMΔDCB variants (Figure 1B) in coimmunoprecipitation experiments, consistent with the corresponding yeast two-hybrid assay (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Coimmunoprecipitation of XLIM-GNOMΔDCB-Myc and XLDB-GNOMΔDCB-HA indicated that the XLIM-XLDB module restores N-terminal interaction between GNOMΔDCB proteins (Figure 1B). Thus, the DCB domain of GNOM functions as a dimerization domain in vivo. To analyze the relative abundance of GNOM dimers compared with monomers in vivo, we investigated complex formation of GNOM proteins with altered dimerization ability. Protein extracts from plants expressing epitope-tagged GNOM proteins were fractionated by size-exclusion chromatography, the fractions were analyzed by protein gel blotting, and signal density of the fractions was quantified. The vast majority of GNOM protein eluted in fractions corresponding to 570 to 670 kD (Figure 1C), which is consistent with complex sizes reported for mammalian and yeast large ARF-GEFs BIG1, BIG2, and Gea1p, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Deletion of the DCB domain (GNOMΔDCB) led to a shift in protein complex size to fractions corresponding to ∼300 kD, whereas constitutive dimerization of GNOMΔDCB (XLIM-GNOMΔDCB and XLDB-GNOMΔDCB) relocated GNOMΔDCB into full-length GNOM-positive fractions (Figure 1C). Thus, the DCB–DCB domain interaction mediates the formation of GNOM dimers, rather than oligomers, as its most abundant form in vivo. To assess the in vivo significance of dimerization, we analyzed GNOM lacking the DCB domain (GNOMΔDCB) and constitutively dimerized GNOMΔDCB (XLIM-GNOMΔDCB and XLDB-GNOMΔDCB) for their functionality in planta by assessing their ability to complement catalytically inactive gnomE658K mutants. This mutant displays early embryonic defects leading to developmental arrest of grossly abnormal seedlings (CITATION; CITATION). Constitutively dimerized GNOMΔDCB variants complemented gnomE658K, demonstrating that constitutive dimerization does not interfere with GNOM function (Figure 2A ; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Surprisingly, GNOMΔDCB complemented gnomE658K, too (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental Table 1 online). These data indicate that dimerization neither has to be regulated nor is it required for large ARF-GEF function. However, the in vivo significance of dimerization had been suggested by the interallelic complementation of two nonfunctional alleles, gnomG579R and gnomE658K, which encode full-length inactive proteins with single amino acid exchanges in the SEC7 domain (Figure 2C; CITATION). To understand the molecular mechanism(s) underlying this interallelic complementation, we examined the biological role of dimerization in the context of the two complementing alleles. GNOM mutant proteins lacking the DCB domains (XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB or XLDB-GNOME658KΔDCB) did not complement the respective other mutant full-length protein, resulting in the gnom mutant phenotype (Figures 2D and 2E; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Interestingly, constitutive dimerization of XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB and XLDB-GNOME658KΔDCB did not rescue gnomE658K mutant plants either (Figure 2F; see Supplemental Table 1 online). These results indicate that the DCB domain is required for interallelic complementation and that, surprisingly, dimerization is not sufficient. This suggests that the DCB domain performs another essential function that cannot be mimicked by the XLIM–XLDB interaction module. [[FIGURE]] The interaction of the DCB domain with the immunophilin CYP19-4 (CYCLOPHILIN5) in Arabidopsis, suggested by yeast two-hybrid and in vitro interaction assays (CITATION), might represent the additional function of the DCB domain. Similarly to GNOM, the two mammalian large ARF-GEFs BIG1 and BIG2 interact with the immunophilin FKBP13 in Jurkat T cells via their conserved DCB domains (CITATION). Curiously, mammalian FKBP13 and Arabidopsis CYP19-4 harbor an N-terminal signal for translocation into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (CITATION; CITATION), whereas large ARF-GEFs are localized in the cytosol or to the cytosolic leaflet of target membranes (CITATION). FKBP13, which harbors an additional ER retention signal, has been reported to localize to the ER lumen (CITATION). Therefore, we assessed the subcellular localization of Myc-tagged CYP19-4 expressed from the RPS5A promoter (CITATION). Both immunofluorescence and immunogold labeling localized CYP19-4 protein to the ER, Golgi stacks, and multivesicular bodies in seedling root tips (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). These results make it unlikely that GNOM interacts with CYP19-4 in vivo. Moreover, neither physical interaction of GNOM with CYP19-4 in planta nor alteration of the catalytic GDP/GTP exchange of GNOM in the presence of CYP19-4 in vitro nor genetic interaction of gnom and cyp19-4 mutants was detected (CITATION; CITATION). Taken together, our results suggest that the DCB domain does not bind immunophilin in vivo nor is its interaction with another DCB domain essential for ARF-GEF function. To assess its essential, unidentified function, the DCB domain was tested for interaction with other domains of the GNOM protein by yeast two-hybrid assay. Surprisingly, the DCB domain interacted not only with itself (homotypic interaction) but also remarkably strongly with GNOM lacking the DCB domain (GNOMΔDCB; heterotypic interaction) (Figure 3A ). To determine whether the heterotypic interaction also occurs in vivo, we coexpressed fragments of GNOM protein in transgenic plants. Coimmunoprecipitation of both DCB-Myc and full-length GNOM-Myc with GNOMΔDCB-HA revealed the heterotypic interaction (Figure 3B), even though the interaction of GNOMΔDCB with full-length GNOM was reduced, which might suggest that an intramolecular interaction of full-length GNOM is preferred to an intermolecular interaction with GNOMΔDCB. Attempts by yeast two-hybrid analysis to map the DCB-interacting region to any specific domain within GNOMΔDCB were unsuccessful (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), which might be attributed to improper folding of single domains when taken out of their normal context or to more than one domain being involved in heterotypic interaction. To delineate the interacting region and to assess the functional significance of the heterotypic interaction, we analyzed the impact of amino acid exchange mutations that are known to compromise large ARF-GEF function (Figure 3D): E658K and G579R mutations characterized in GNOM and the HUS box mutation (D468G) characterized in the yeast ARF-GEF Gea2p. The HUS box mutation disrupts a conserved motif N(Y/F)DC(D/N) of the HUS domain and severely affects viability (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis of the DCB domain with mutated GNOMΔDCB revealed that the E658K mutation had no deleterious effect. By contrast, the G579R mutation and the HUS box mutation eliminated the heterotypic interaction (Figure 3D). Coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated the biological significance of the yeast two-hybrid results for the G579R mutant GNOM protein in planta (Figure 3C). Specifically, XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB did not coprecipitate with full-length GNOM. By contrast, full-length GNOM proteins that carried the G579R mutation were still able to dimerize via their DCB domains. Thus, the heterotypic interaction critically depends on specific amino acid residues in the C-terminal part of the HUS domain and the adjacent N-terminal part of the SEC7 domain. The mutations of these residues cause severe mutant phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION), strongly suggesting that the heterotypic interaction is essential for large ARF-GEF function. [[FIGURE]] The E658K mutation destroys the Glu finger in motif 1 of the SEC7 domain required for GDP release from the ARF substrate, resulting in catalytic inactivity (CITATION; CITATION). The G579R mutation and the mutation of a newly isolated gnom allele G568R reside in the N-terminal part of the SEC7 domain comprising the first two α-helices (αA and αB) clearly not in contact with the ARF GTPase (see Supplemental Figure 4 online; CITATION). To assess whether the integrity of the two α-helices in the N-terminal part of the SEC7 domain is required for the heterotypic interaction, we analyzed the G568R mutation along with double point mutations of two conserved Lys residues directly adjacent to the G579R mutation (KK577,578EE), residing in an intervening loop between the two α-helices (Figure 3D; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Compared with G579R, the G568R mutation affected the heterotypic interaction only moderately (Figure 3D). Interestingly, this correlates well with its weaker mutant phenotype compared with the complete loss-of-function phenotype of G579R (Figure 4A ). By contrast, the KK577,578EE mutation did not affect the heterotypic interaction (Figure 3D). [[FIGURE]] The alleles gnomG579R and gnomE658K were shown to complement each other, which already suggested that the N-terminal part of the SEC7 domain is required for a function unrelated to catalytic activity (CITATION). Consistent with this, the newly isolated weak allele gnomG568R also complemented the catalytically inactive gnomE658K, whereas gnomG568R did not complement gnomG579R, suggesting that the latter two mutations affect the same noncatalytic function (Figure 4A). To obtain biochemical confirmation for this conclusion, we attempted to assess the catalytic activity of the SEC7 domain of GNOM harboring the G579R mutation. As this recombinant protein was insoluble, we instead used the SEC7 domain of the GNOM homolog BIG3 (previously named BIG2), which had been shown to be catalytically active on ARF1 (CITATION). We introduced the G579R-homologous mutation into the highly conserved SEC7 domain of BIG3 (SEC7BIG3G626R; Figure 3D). SEC7BIG3G626R catalyzed the GDP/GTP exchange on ARF1 as efficiently as wild-type SEC7BIG3 (Figure 4B). Thus, the N-terminal part of the SEC7 domain mediates a noncatalytic, fundamental aspect of large ARF-GEF function. The catalytic GDP/GTP exchange reactions of ARF-GEFs depend on the translocation of the ARF-GEF and its ARF substrate from the cytosol to the membrane. Therefore, we analyzed whether impaired heterotypic interaction compromises membrane association of GNOM. As shown above, XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB was unable to complement the catalytically inactive GNOME658K protein (Figure 2D), in contrast with the nonmutant variant XLIM-GNOMΔDCB (Figure 2B). These two truncated GNOM proteins were analyzed for their ability to associate with membranes by subcellular fractionation of protein extracts. Similar to endogenous GNOM, XLIM-GNOMΔDCB partitioned between soluble (S100) and membrane (P100') fractions, whereas the ratio of partitioning was altered in the mutant variant XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB, with the majority of the truncated protein localizing in the soluble fraction (Figure 5A ). There was still XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB detectable in the membrane fraction, which might be due to contamination of the highly concentrated P100' fraction with soluble proteins (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Alternatively, there might be residual mutant protein associated with the membrane. To assess membrane association of GNOMG579RΔDCB independently, we additionally localized the transgenic proteins in seedling roots treated with the fungal toxin Brefeldin A (BFA). BFA traps ARF exchange intermediate ARF•GDP-SEC7 on membranes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), leading to the accumulation of GNOM in large ARF1-positive BFA compartments (CITATION; CITATION), which makes it very easy to detect membrane association of GNOM in cells. Like full-length GNOM protein, XLIM-GNOMΔDCB colocalized with ARF1 in BFA compartments. By contrast, the same truncated protein carrying the G579R mutation, XLIM-GNOMG579RΔDCB, was not detectable in ARF1-positive BFA compartments (Figures 5B to 5D). We ensured that the expression levels of both transgenic proteins were comparable, and the BFA sensitivity of the SEC7 domain was not impaired by the mutation (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). We therefore conclude that the heterotypic interaction of the DCB domain with GNOMΔDCB promotes the association of GNOM with membranes. This conclusion is moreover consistent with the observation that HUS box mutations, which we showed also to compromise the heterotypic interaction, affect membrane association of the yeast homolog Gea2p (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana growth conditions and gnom alleles G579R (B4049) and E658K (emb30-1) have been described (CITATION). Sequencing of the ethyl methanesulfonate–induced gnomG568R allele revealed a change of codon 568 from GGA (G) to AGA (R). GNOM constructs are based on the genomic fragment GNXbaIwt-myc (CITATION). The 3xMyc-tag was substituted by 1xHA-tag, where indicated. Primer extension PCR deleted the DCB domain (1 to 232 amino acids) and introduced restriction sites at the start codon. XLIM (1 to 58 amino acids) and XLDB (290 to 350 amino acids) (CITATION) were PCR amplified and introduced into the restriction sites, in the case of XLDB, a 2xHA-tag was added C-terminally. G579R and E658K mutations were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION). To generate the DCB-Myc construct (1 to 246 amino acids), restriction sites used for insertion of the C-terminal 3xMyc-tag were inserted by primer extension PCR on the cDNA vector c96 (CITATION). GNOM constructs were cloned into pGreenII conferring BASTA or hygromycin resistance. PCR-amplified CDS of At CYP19-4 was cloned into the ribosomal protein S5A promoter expression cassette (CITATION) and C-terminally 3xMyc tagged. gnom heterozygous transgenic seedlings were selected on 50 μg/mL of kanamycin (Roth), 15 μg/mL of hygromycin, or 30 μg/mL of phosphinothricin (Duchefa). Complementation was analyzed by transgenic expression, GNOM genomic background, and gnom segregation rates in T2-T5 generations. Assay and constructs of DCB (1 to 246 amino acids), SEC7 (551 to 818 amino acids), HDS1-3 (818 to 1451 amino acids) domains, and CYP19-4 are as described (CITATION). GNOMΔDCB (232 to 1451 amino acids) and HUS domain (232 to 548 amino acids) were PCR amplified and cloned into pJG4-5 and pEG202. D468G, G568R, KK577,578EE, G579R, and E658K mutations were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis. Seedlings (0.5 g) were homogenized (potter) in 1.5 mL of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich], and 1 mM PMSF) and centrifuged twice (10,000g for 30 min at 4°C). Protein extracts containing 1% Triton X-100 were incubated with 20 μL of bed volume of equilibrated rabbit anti-Myc agarose beads (Sigma-Aldrich) at 4°C overnight. Beads were washed four times with extraction buffer and bound proteins eluted by boiling in 50 μL of 2× Laemmli buffer. Protein extracts were centrifuged at 100,000g for 60 min at 4°C, yielding supernatant S100. The pellet was incubated with 1.3 mL of extraction buffer for 30 min and centrifuged, and the pellet (P100') was resolved in 50 μL of 2× Laemmli buffer. Protein extracts were separated as described (CITATION). Protein size distribution was analyzed with a gel filtration calibration kit (Amersham Biosciences). The fractions were precipitated using Stratagene Clean resin and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and protein gel blotting and the signals quantified (Bio-Rad QuantityOne software). SDS-PAGE and protein gel blotting were performed as described (CITATION). Antibodies and dilutions were as follows: anti-Myc 9E10 (Santa Cruz) 1:600, rabbit anti-SEC7 (CITATION) 1:6000, rabbit anti-POR (CITATION) 1:5000, anti-mouse or anti-rabbit alkaline phosphatase–conjugated antibodies (Novagen and Jackson Immunoresearch) 1:5000, and peroxidase-conjugated mouse anti-HA (Roche) 1:1000. Detection was performed with the CDP-Star (Tropix) or BM-chemiluminescence blotting substrate (Roche). Construction of expression vectors, production of recombinant proteins, and fluorescence measurements were performed as described (CITATION). G626R and L741M mutations were introduced into the SEC7 domain of BIG3 by site-directed mutagenesis. Immunofluorescence analysis and confocal microscopy were performed as described (CITATION). Rabbit anti-ARF1 antibody (CITATION) was diluted 1:1000. Seedlings were treated with 200 μM BFA for 120 min, where indicated. Immunogold labeling and electron microscopic analysis of ultrathin thawed cryosections were performed as described (CITATION). The 9E10 mouse anti-Myc antibody was diluted 1:200. Goat anti-mouse IgG coupled to Nanogold was silver enhanced with HQSilver for 8 min (Nanoprobes). Sequence data from this article can be found in GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis genes GNOM (At1g13980), GNL1 (At5g39500), GNL2 (At5g19610), BIG1 (At4g38200), BIG2 (At3g60860), BIG3 (At1g01960), BIG4 (At4g35380), BIG5 (At3g43300), ARF1 (At2g47170), CYP19-4 (At2g29960); Xenopus leavis XLIM (AAB70190), Xl XLDB (NP_001080549); Homo sapiens BIG1 (NP_006412), Hs BIG2 (NP_006411), Hs GBF1 (NP_004184), Hs ARNO (X99753.1); Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gea1p (NP_012565), Sc Gea2p (NP_010892), Sc Sec7p (P11075). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Domain Interactions of the GNOM Protein. Supplemental Figure 2. Functional Analysis of GNOM Mutant Proteins. Supplemental Figure 3. CYP19-4 Localizes to the Secretory Pathway. Supplemental Figure 4. The N-terminal α-Helices A and B of the SEC7 Domain Are Not in Contact with the ARF Substrate. Supplemental Figure 5. Antibody Detection of Proteins in Subcellular Fractions. Supplemental Figure 6. G579R and the Homologous Mutation in BIG3 Do Not Interfere with ARF-GEF Expression Level and BFA Sensitivity, Respectively. Supplemental Table 1. Segregation Rates of Complementing Allele Combinations.
