!~ABS~! Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) play key regulatory roles in diverse cellular functions, including cell-cycle progression, transcription and translation. In plants, CDKs have been classified into several groups, named A through to G, but the functions of most are poorly characterized. CDKCs are known to phosphorylate the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II), and therefore the CDKC-cyclinT (CycT) complex may have a role similar to the animal CDK9-CycT complex of the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb). However, we found that the predicted structure of the Arabidopsis CDKC2 protein is more similar to the mammalian cdc2-related kinase, CRK7, than to CDK9. CRK7 is proposed to link transcription with splicing, and CDKC2 contains all the structural features of CRK7 that make the latter distinct from CDK9. Consistent with this, we show that GFP-CDKC2 fusion proteins co-localize with spliceosomal components, that the expression of CDKC2 modifies the location of these components, and that co-localization was dependent on the transcriptional status of the cells and on CDKC2-kinase activity. We propose, therefore, that the Arabidopsis CDKC2 combines the functions of both CRK7 and CDK9, and could also couple splicing with transcription.
!~RES~! As a first step towards understanding the possible function of the Arabidopsis CDKC genes, we compared their structural features with other classes of CDK, particularly those from animals. The Arabidopsis genome contains two CDKC genes, CDKC1 and CDKC2, which share a variant cyclin-binding motif, PITAIRE. The entire protein sequence of CDKC2 was used in a BLAST search against the human genome (NCBI database, 15-9-07), which revealed that the two proteins most similar to CDKC2 were members of either the cholinesterase-related cell division kinases (CHED-kinases) or the cdc2-related protein-RS (CrkRS) family. CHED-kinases are involved with megakaryocyte differentiation in hematopoiesis (CITATION), and the relation of plant CDKCs with these mammalian proteins has been reported previously (CITATION). The other structurally-related mammalian protein is CrkRS, also known as CRK7, which is a novel cdc2-related kinase proposed to link transcription with splicing, as it phosphorylates the CTD of RNAP II and associates with components of the SR-splicing factors (CITATION). Although CDKC2 does share significant homology with mammalian CDK9, the BLAST score with CDK9 is significantly lower than with CRK7. Reciprocal BLAST searches using CDK9 and CRK7 both identified CDKC2 as the most similar plant protein (data not shown). This suggested to us that CDKC2 may have other roles in addition to its previously reported functions in transcriptional elongation (CITATION; CITATION). Similar results were obtained when the protein sequence of CDKC1 was used as a probe in a BLAST search against the human genome (data not shown), suggesting that both CDKC proteins were more similar to CRK7 than to CDK9. Furthermore, both CDKC2 and CRK7 have N- and C-terminal extensions on either side of the core kinase domain, whereas CDK9 lacks such extensions (Figure 1a). The N- and C-terminal amino acid extensions on CRK7 are much longer than those of CDKC2 (723 and 452 residues respectively, vs 22 and 181), but they share several features. The hydropathic profiles of the extensions of both CDKC2 and CRK7 indicated that they both contain mainly hydrophilic residues (data not shown). Amino acid inserts and extensions within the sequence of protein kinases are usually composed of hydrophilic residues, and represent surface elements that do not disrupt their basic core structure (CITATION). CRK7 also contains an RS-rich domain, a prominent feature of the pre-mRNA splicing factors. Twenty-one RS motifs are present within the N-terminal amino extension of the CRK7 protein, and only one in the remaining sequence (CITATION). On the other hand, analysis of the CDKC2 sequence revealed the presence of only two RS motifs (one within the N-terminal extension of the protein and the other within the core kinase), whereas CDK9 had only one (Figure 1a). A characteristic feature of CRK7, which is also present in Arabidopsis CDKC2, is that no RS motifs are found after the ‘PPE’ sequence, corresponding to the ‘APE motif’ of protein kinases (CITATION). The ‘APE’ motif represents the boundary of the kinase central core, as almost all of the characterized functional residues are found before that motif (CITATION). This indicates the importance of RS motifs in the functional properties of those proteins. In CDK9, however, the only RS motif present is located after the ‘PPE’ triplet, and is consequently outside of the central core of protein kinases (Figure 1a). This suggests that the RS motif of CDK9 is unlikely to be implicated in the functional properties of the protein. The lower number of RS motifs in CDKC2 compared with CRK7 could be a plant-specific characteristic. [[FIGURE]] Comparison of central core regions indicated that the region between the ‘GxGxxG’ and the ‘APE’ motifs of CDKC2 was significantly more similar to CRK7 (60.7%) than to CDK9 (51.1%). CDKC2 and CRK7 also share a key regulatory motif, T14/Y15, which CDK9 lacks. Y15 is substituted by Phe in CDK9 (Figure 1b), suggesting that this residue is not involved in the regulation of protein function (CITATION). Finally, comparison of the predicted 3D structure of CDKC2, CDK9 and CRK7 (Figure 1c) revealed that CRK7 is more similar to the plant protein in terms of backbone conformation and arrangement of putative phosphorylation sites. BLAST searches of Arabidopsis proteins with both CRK7 and CDK9 revealed CDKCs as the best match for both, suggesting that CRK7-like and CDK9-like functions in plants may be undertaken by the same protein. Therefore, on balance, the bioinformatic analysis suggested that the Arabidopsis CDKC proteins are more closely related to CRK7 than to CDK9. We previously found that CDKA localized to both the nucleus (CITATION), where it associates with the chromatin up until the metaphase and then transfers to the microtubules, and the cytoplasm, where it associates with the cortical microtubules (CITATION) and other cytoplasmic components. To determine the localization and dynamics of CDKC2, we made transgenic tobacco BY2 cells that expressed a GFP-CDKC2 fusion protein, and followed the distribution of the fusion protein through the cell-division cycle. During the interphase, the GFP-CDKC2 protein is localized primarily in the nucleus (Figure 2a) where it accumulates in small bodies within the nucleoplasm. The CDKC2 fusion appeared to be more diffuse in BY2 cells, probably because of differences in nuclear organization between the two species or because of variations at the expression levels of the fusion proteins (compare Figures 2a and 3a). Unlike CDKA, GFP-CDKC2 is not retained on the chromatin during mitosis (Figure 2b–d), and appears to be diminished in the chromatin regions throughout mitosis. GFP-CDKC2 becomes diffusely associated with the spindle region during the metaphase (Figure 2c). During the anaphase (Figure 2d), GFP-CDKC2 begins to accumulate in regions adjacent to the incipient daughter nuclei, and regains a more discretely nuclear localization pattern in the telophase (Figure 2e and f). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The localization of CDKC2 to nuclear bodies, and its dynamic relocalization during the cell cycle, suggested to us that it may play a role in transcript processing, possibly in splicing. To further characterize the association of CDKC with nuclear bodies, we determined its subcellular localization by transiently expressing translational fusions between CDKC genes and GFP in Arabidopsis cell suspensions. Subsequently, we subjected the expressing cells to various extractions and drug treatments to test the interaction of CDKC with nuclear components. The Arabidopsis GFP-CDKC2 fusion protein localized to the nucleus, with a reduced level in the nucleolus, and produced a network of bright speckles and diffuse nucleoplasmic staining (Figure 3a). The same localization pattern was obtained for the GFP-CDKC1 fusion protein (data not shown). Western blot analysis, using an anti-GFP antibody, revealed a band of approximately 82 kDa, which corresponded to the predicted size of the fusion protein, and established that the fusion protein remained intact (Figure 3b). To determine how tightly CDKC2 interacts with nuclear components, cells expressing the GFP fusion protein were extracted with different levels of non-ionic detergents: (i) 10% (v/v) NP-40 (Nonidet P-40), (ii) 1% (v/v) Triton X-100 and (iii) 10% (v/v) DMSO + 0.05% (v/v) NP-40 + 0.45 m Sorbitol, referred to hereafter as the ‘extraction buffer’). Under such conditions, membranes and the nuclear envelope are dissolved, and soluble proteins are differentially extracted (CITATION), but the GFP–CDKC2 fusion protein was completely resistant to extraction, even after prolonged treatment (Figure 3c,e). The signal from soluble GFP control cells was completely eliminated by these treatments (Figure 3d). To test if the speckled localization pattern of CDKC2 was dependent on the integrity of either DNA or RNA, Arabidopsis cells expressing the GFP-CDKC2 fusion protein were treated with DNase and/or RNase, and were then stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) or ethidium bromide. Nuclease treatment did not substantially alter the speckled pattern of GFP-CDKC2, although DNA in the nucleus was digested, as revealed by DAPI staining (Figure 3f,g). Thus, we concluded that GFP-CDKC2 was tightly localized to speckles, but this probably did not require direct association with either RNA or chromatin. The plant splicing machinery is located in the nucleus in a distinctive distribution that is well characterized (CITATION; CITATION), and if CDKC2 plays a role in splicing, one might expect the protein to be found co-located with splicing factors. To test this, we localized GFP-CDKC2 in cells that were also expressing the splicing factor SRp34 (CITATION) fused to RFP (Figure 4a). Co-expression resulted in a very finely dispersed pattern of speckles for both the GFP and RFP fusion proteins, suggesting that expression of SRp34 promoted the redistribution of CDKC2 into smaller structures. [[FIGURE]] Merging of the GFP and RFP signals indicated a similar distribution pattern for the two fusion proteins (Figure 4a). To quantify the correlation between the green and the red channels more precisely, we plotted line-intensity profiles for each channel with a series of randomly selected lines through the merged images of nuclei. Comparing the line profiles from the two channels showed that the positions of the maxima and minima in the two channels coincided precisely. A significant level of RFP-SRp34 was also found in the nucleolus. The RFP-SRp34 fusion protein stained the nucleolar cavity less intensively when expressed alone in Arabidopsis cells (Figure 4a,b), as has been reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, CDKC2 localizes in the same regions of the nucleus as SRp34, but co-expression of the two proteins modifies the distribution of each protein. Another protein, a cyclophilin containing RS repeats (CypRS64), has been proposed to associate with and play a role in regulating the splicing machinery in Arabidopsis. CypRS64 was found to associate with the splicing factor SRp34, and a role for cyclophilins in the regulation of spliceosomal dynamics was proposed (CITATION). To determine whether CDKC2 also co-localizes with CypRS64, we co-transformed Arabidopsis cells with plasmids carrying the GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-CypRS64 fusion constructs. Co-expression of GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-CypRS64 resulted in the co-localization of the two fusion proteins into large dots (Figure 4c). Both fusion proteins stained the nucleolus, and areas of co-localization were also found within the nucleolar cavity (Figure 4d). A more diffuse pattern and less defined dots were observed when the RFP-CypRS64 fusion protein was expressed alone in Arabidopsis cells. Also, the nucleolar cavity was less intensively stained (Figure 4e). The relocalization of CDKC2 upon co-expression with CypRS64 could result from an interaction between the two proteins, as was observed previously with CypRS64 and SRp34 (CITATION). Our results, combined with previous findings, indicate that CDKC2, SRp34 and CypRS64 all locate to the same subcompartment of the nucleus, and that they all influence each other’s distribution. Co-localization of splicing components with other members of Arabidopsis CDK families demonstrated different localization profiles (Figures S1 and S2). Co-expression of CDKB2;1 with SRp34 led to their co-localization in the nucleus, with CDKB2;1 also being localized in the cytoplasm (Figure S1). Moreover, co-expression of two proteins did not alter the other’s localization profile, as compared with the profile observed when each protein was expressed alone. Co-expression of SRp34 with CDKD demonstrated that localization of the splicing factor was not altered (Figure S2, compare with Figure 4). CDKD was relocalized into fine speckles, but careful observation of the two protein localization profiles, in combination with line-intensity profiling, showed that co-localization between CDKD and SRp34 was restricted to a few loci (Figure S2). The human homolog of CDKD, CDK7, was reported to localize in coiled bodies, structures that contain snRNPs of the U family (CITATION). Also, SR-splicing factors associate with U-snRNPs, and facilitate their recruitment to the 5′ splicing site and branch-point sequences (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, relocalization of CDKD upon overexpression of SRp34 could result from the association of the latter with U-snRNP. Therefore, the above observations indicate that co-localization of splicing components with CDKC2 seems to be specific, and does not result from changes in nuclear organization. Most pre-mRNA splicing occurs co-transcriptionally (CITATION), so that the transcriptional status of the cell affects the spatial distribution of the SR-splicing factors. In general, inhibition of transcription causes a decrease in the numbers of nuclear speckles, and the redistribution of splicing factors into larger storage bodies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we tested if the distribution of CDKC2 was influenced by the level of RNAP II transcription in vivo, and compared this with the localization of SR-splicing factors. Arabidopsis cell suspensions transiently expressing the GFP-CDKC2, either alone or with RFP-SRp34 or RFP-CypRS64 fusion proteins, were incubated with the transcription inhibitor 5,6-dichloro-1-β-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB; CITATION). When cells expressing GFP-CDKC2 were incubated in DRB for 2 h, the fusion protein accumulated in the nucleolus (Figure S3), and the relative level of fusion protein in the nucleoplasm seemed diminished, although speckles were still visible. However, DRB treatment had a more dramatic effect when GFP-CDKC2 was co-expressed with SRp34 (Figure 5). After 1 h in DRB, the fine, speckled localization pattern was lost, and both proteins accumulated in larger bodies, but the extent of co-localization between CDKC2 and SRp34 temporally decreased, with considerable variation in the content of the larger bodies. Some bodies contained primarily one or other protein, but other bodies contained both proteins (Figure 5a). Treatment for longer periods (3 and 5 h) resulted in the accumulation of GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-SRp34 in even larger bodies, which decreased in number and increased in the level of co-localization (Figure 5b,c). Areas of co-localization between GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-SRp34 were also found within the nucleolar cavity. Incubation with DRB for 7 h led to co-localization of the two proteins into a few very large nuclear domains (Figure 5d). The gradual co-localization between GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-SRp34 is also shown, with the plotted line intensity profiles for the green and red channels, across randomly selected lines through nuclei. In transcriptionally inactive cells, the diffuse fraction of RFP-SRp34 decreased until it completely disappeared, whereas low levels of GFP-CDKC2 fluorescence remained diffusely distributed in the nucleoplasm. The relocation of CDKC2 and SRp34 to larger bodies was reversible by the removal of DRB: 1.5 h after washing out the drug, the GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-SRp34 fusion proteins redistributed to the original finely dispersed pattern, resembling untreated cells (Figure 5e). This suggested that inhibition of transcription led to altered localization of both CDKC2 and the splicing factors. [[FIGURE]] As CypRS64 also co-located with CDKC2, we tested their reaction to the transcription inhibitor DRB. Following treatment for 3 h, the intracellular localization of CypRS64 was significantly modified, as RFP fluorescence accumulated into large nuclear domains (Figure 6a), where it co-localized with GFP-CDKC2. Prolonged treatment (5 and 7 h) decreased the number of these bodies, and increased their size until GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-CypRS64 were co-localized in a few very large foci (Figure 6b,c), similar to the pattern observed for GFP-CDKC2 and RFP-SRp34 fusion proteins upon treatment with DRB (see Figure 5). However, a fraction of both GFP and RFP fluorescence remained diffusely distributed in the nucleoplasm. [[FIGURE]] We then used heat shock as an alternative way of inhibiting transcription, as heat treatment is known to inhibit the transcription of most RNAP-II genes (CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis cells, transformed with plasmid expressing the CDKC2-GFP fusion protein and incubated at 42°C, CDKC2 was accumulated in enlarged nuclear speckles that increased in size after prolonged treatment (Figure 7a). The pattern of these speckles was distinct from that observed after DRB treatment, indicating that these two treatments might inhibit transcription by affecting different pathways. On the other hand, nuclear speckles almost disappeared after cold treatment at 4°C, and GFP-CDKC2 was more evenly distributed in the nucleoplasm (Figure 7b). Similar results were reported previously for splicing factors of the SR family (CITATION). All the above data indicate that the subnuclear distribution of Arabidopsis CDKC2 is dependent on the transcriptional status of the cell. Furthermore, CDKC2 responds after inhibition of transcription similarly to the splicing factor SRp34 and the cyclophilin CypRS64. Thus, the plant kinase could be associated with components of the mRNA processing apparatus. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether CDKC2 localization is dependent on its kinase activity, we generated a dominant-negative mutant of the kinase (mCDKC2) by mutating a conserved aspartic acid (Asp) residue located in the ATP-binding pocket to asparagine (D182N). This conserved Aspartic acid residue was shown to be essential for Mg-ATP phosphate binding and transposition of the phosphate group to the substrate (CITATION), and mutation of this residue produced inactive kinases in both Saccharomyces cerevisiae and humans (CITATION: CITATION). Transient expression revealed that a GFP-mCDKC2 fusion also localized to the nucleoplasm, but tended to produce a more diffuse pattern than the wild-type fusion protein (Figure 8a). However, unlike the wild type, the mutant fusion protein gradually accumulated into the nucleolus when cultured for prolonged times under glass (gas-impermeable) cover slips (Figure 8a). The partitioning of the mutant CDKC2 fusion protein between the nucleoplasm and the nucleolus therefore seems to be defective. This prompted us to investigate the effect of roscovitine, a CDK-kinase inhibitor that competes with ATP for binding in the kinase ATP-binding site (CITATION). When cells are incubated in 20 μm roscovitine, GFP-CDKC2 accumulates in the nucleolus (Figure S3), supporting the idea that normal partitioning of CDKC2 between the nucleus and the nucleolus requires kinase activity. [[FIGURE]] Co-expression of CDKC2 with components of the spliceosomal machinery resulted in their co-localization, which was enhanced by the inhibitor DRB, implying the involvement of CDKC2 in splicing (Figure 4). To assess if kinase activity affects this co-localization profile, we co-expressed the mutant fusion protein with RFP-CypRS64. Co-expression resulted in the accumulation of both proteins in large particles within the nucleus, closely resembling the pattern observed when cells co-expressing the wild-type CDKC2 and CypRS64 fusion proteins were treated with DRB (Figure 8b). All the above observations suggest that kinase activity is required to maintain CDKC2 and spliceosomal components in a dispersed-particulate form. These observations indicate that the inhibition of CDKC2 kinase activity does not affect the nuclear-specific localization of the kinase, but does affect the dynamics of CDKC2 protein localization within the nucleus, and this change is particularly apparent in response to conditions that affect mRNA processing. Previous studies indicated that CDKC genes are expressed throughout the cell cycle and throughout development (CITATION; CITATION), and mRNA in situ analysis confirms this pattern of general expression in meristems (data not shown). Analysis of the large number of expression microarray experiments currently available (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) reveals that the strongest expression of CDKC is found in seeds and imbibing seeds, but that otherwise both CDKC genes are expressed throughout development, with At5g64960 (CDKC2) being expressed at a higher level. To gain further insight into CDKC function, we interrogated the Arabidopsis co-response database (http://csbdb.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/csbdb/dbcor/ath.html) and the PRIMe database (http://prime.psc.riken.jp/?action=coexpression_index) to find which classes of gene show similar patterns of expression. These resources compile microarray expression data from numerous experiments, and can provide clues to gene function by association with genes of known function. Nineteen out of the top 40 genes showing co-expression with CDKC2 (At5g64960) have functional annotations as splicing factors or RNA binding proteins (Table 1), and include the CypRS64 cyclophilin and SR-related genes, the products of which co-localize with CDKC2. The other genes include RSZp21, RSp41, a U2-snRNP auxiliary factor (At1g27650), a protein showing similarity to splicing factor 1 from Drosophila, a LUC7-domain-containing U1-snRNA-associated protein with a role in splice-site recognition, three different KH domain proteins, and three RNA recognition motif (RRM) RNA binding proteins and a 5′–3′ exoribonuclease (XRN3). Taken together with the co-localization data, these microarray data indicate that CDKC2 is co-regulated with a suite of genes involved in mRNA processing. The expression pattern of CDKC2 was compared in silico with all other Arabidopsis genes available in Affymetrix microarray experiments using co-response databases. The 40 genes that are most closely co-regulated with CDKC2 are presented in rank order with the Spearman correlation coefficient. Genes with functional annotations related to mRNA processing are illustrated in bold.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis CDKC2 and CDKB2;1 genes were obtained as trimmed open reading frames (ORFs) from the SSP consortium collection (http://signal.salk.edu/SSP/index.html), in the form of ‘U clones’ (CDKC2-clone number 09114 and CDKB2;1-clone number 12632) and in a pUNI51 expression vector (accession AY260846). The ORFs were cloned into the Gateway™-compatible expression vector pGWB6 (a gift from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan), which is a 35S::N-terminus GFP-fusion expression vector, as described in CITATION. The Agrobacterium strain used was GV3101 (CITATION), and bacterial cells were transformed by the freeze-thaw method. Approximately 1 μg of plasmid DNA was added to 100 μl of bacterial cells. The mixture was frozen in liquid nitrogen, thawed at a 37°C for 5 min and incubated at 28°C for 2–4 h. Transformed cells were selected on agar plates containing the appropriate antibiotic. Colonies appeared following incubation at 28°C for 2–3 days. The Arabidopsis cell suspension used was the Arabidopsis Colombia-0 (CITATION). The Tobacco cell suspension was BY2 (CITATION). Plant cells were transformed as described in Koroleva et al. (2004, 2005). Mutation at the ATP-binding pocket of CDKC2 (D182N; GAT→AAT) was generated using the GeneTailorR site-directed mutagenesis kit (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Primer sequences used for the mutagenesis were: 5′-AGGGAAATTTAAAGCTAGCGAATTTTGGGCTTGC-3′ (forward; the mutagenic nucleotide is underlined) and 5′-CGCTAGCTTTAAATTTCCCTCATTGTCAAT-3′ (reverse). Constructs containing the mutated CDKC2 were sequenced to confirm the presence of the desired mutation and the absence of any other changes, transformed into Agrobacterium and were then transiently expressed into Arabidopsis cells, as described above. Transformed cells were centrifuged for 1 min at 208 g, and the plant pellet was resuspended in the following detergent solutions: (i) 10% (v/v) Nonidet P-40 (NP-40; Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), (ii) 1% (v/v) Triton X-100 (ACROS, http://www.acros.com) and (iii) extraction buffer [10% (v/v) DMSO + 0.05% (v/v) NP-40 + 0.45 m Sorbitol in PEM buffer (50 mm PIPES, 5 mm MgSO4, 5 mm EGTA)]. Before DNaseI and RNaseA treatments, Arabidopsis cells were converted into protoplast, as described in CITATION. The obtained protoplasts were washed twice with PEM plus 0.025 m Sorbitol (PEMS), and were then incubated in extraction buffer for 15 min. The extracted protoplasts were washed twice with 10% DMSO in PEM and 5–50 μl of DNase (10 mg ml−1; Sigma), and 100–200 μl of RNaseA (10 mg ml−1; Sigma) was added to 1 ml of the extracted protoplasts. For nuclei staining, 1 μg ml−1 DAPI and 1 μg ml−1 ethidium bromide was used. CDK-kinase activity was inhibited with roscovitine (Sigma). Transcription was inhibited with DRB (Sigma). Arabidopsis cells were treated with 20 μm roscovitine, 20 μm Microcystin-LR and 50 μg ml−1 DRB. To remove the drugs, treated cells were washed with ATN growth medium [4.42% (w/v) MS + GB5 (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com), 3% (w/v) sucrose and 0.2 mg l−1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (Duchefa), pH 5.7]. Arabidopsis cells expressing the GFP-CDKC2 fusion protein were washed twice with ATN medium to remove excess bacteria. Plant pellets were homogenized to a powder with liquid nitrogen, and were resuspended in ×2 EB buffer [50 mm Tris–HCl, 150 mm NaCl, 5 mm EDTA, 5 mm NaF, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, one plant protease inhibitor cocktail tablet per 10 ml of buffer (Roche, http://www.roche.com)]. Thawed samples were centrifuged at 14 000 rpm for 20 min and at 4°C. The supernatant was removed and the pellet was resuspended in 5 ml of EB buffer and subjected to sonication using a SANYO™ Soniprep 150 sonicator (SANYO, http://www.sanyo.com). The sonicated plant lysates were resolved by SDS-PAGE, transferred to nitrocellulose [PROTRAN BA 85 CELLULOSENITRAT(E); Schleicher and Schuell;http://www.whatman.com/protrannitrocellulosemembranes.aspx]; and incubated with rabbit anti-GFP (Abcam, http://www.abcam.com) and anti-rabbit HRP (Pierce, http://www.piercenet.com) antibodies. Arabidopsis cells expressing green and red fluorescent protein fusions were visualized with an epifluorescence microscope (Eclipse E600; Nikon, http://www.nikon.com) and the Cain CCD system (Hamamatsu Orca HQ cooled CCD digital camera; Hamamatsu, http://www.hamamatsu.com). Images were processed using Photoshop® Software (version CS2; Adobe Systems, http://www.adobe.com) and ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij).
