!~ABS~! Under phosphate deprivation, higher plants change their lipid composition and recycle phosphate from phospholipids. A phospholipase D, PLDζ2, is involved in this recycling and in other cellular functions related to plant development. We investigated the localization of Arabidopsis PLDζ2 by cell fractionation and in vivo GFP confocal imaging. AtPLDζ2 localizes to the tonoplast and the Nter regulatory domain is sufficient for its sorting. Under phosphate deprivation, AtPLDζ2 remains located in the tonoplast but its distribution is uneven. We observed PLDζ2-enriched tonoplast domains preferentially positioned close to mitochondria and beside chloroplasts. In absence of PLDζ2, membrane developments were visualized inside vacuoles.
!~RES~! PLDζ2 protein has been detected as a possible vacuole protein by a single proteomic analysis CITATION . To verify this localization, we performed several assays of vacuole fractionation from Arabidopsis cells or plants. A protein was immunodetected at the expected size for PLDζ2 (118 kDa) in the microsome fraction of Arabidopsis cells ( CITATION A). This signal was weak and increased in a tonoplast-enriched fraction correlated with tonoplast markers such as γ-TIP (tonoplast intrinsic protein) and V-ATPase. In contrast, it did not show any correlation with chloroplast envelope, ER or plasma membrane markers. Under Pi deprivation, the signal was stronger as expected from enhanced pldζ2 expression and still enriched by purification of the tonoplast fraction ( CITATION B). A protein was also immunodetected in a tonoplast fraction similarly prepared from Arabidopsis plant leaves and was not present in a pld ζ2 − KO mutant confirming the identity of the PLDζ2 signal ( CITATION C). Several smaller proteins were immunodetected only in the wild type plant suggesting some PLDζ2 degradation. Altogether, immunodetection experiments indicated an association of PLDζ2 with the tonoplast. To find out the in vivo PLDζ2 localization we prepared a set of expression constructs of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to the C-terminus of either the entire PLDζ2 protein (PLDζ2::GFP) or the putative regulatory domain of PLDζ2 excluding the phospholipase activity domain CITATION (Nter-PLDζ2::GFP) ( CITATION ). The fusion proteins were transiently expressed in pea leaves by biolistic transformation. By confocal imaging after expression of PLDζ2::GFP, we observed GFP fluorescence at the tonoplast in different types of leaf cells, e.g. stomata guard cells and epidermal cells ( CITATION ). An additional but weak fluorescence was sometimes detected in the cytosol. For a better delineation of tonoplast, DsRed was co-introduced as a soluble cytosolic and nuclear control. GFP fluorescence was thus detected along the DsRed fluorescence at expected position for tonoplast. When PLDζ2::GFP was co-introduced with a tonoplast marker KCO1::DsRed. PLDζ2::GFP, fluorescence co-localized with KCO1::DsRed fluorescence. These results altogether demonstrated a localization of PLDζ2 to the tonoplast. Stronger GFP signal and similar sorting to the tonoplast were obtained with Nter-PLDζ2::GFP indicating that the Nter part of PLDζ2 was sufficient to address the PLDζ2 protein to the tonoplast and suggesting that expression of the GFP fusion protein was stabilized in absence of the phospholipase activity domain. Immunodetection and confocal imaging indicated the localization of PLDζ2 in the tonoplast. The presence of PLDζ2 in the tonoplast membrane can be important for this membrane. We checked the aspect of the tonoplast in the pld ζ2 − KO mutant. By electron microscopy, we observed an unusual abundance of membranes inside the vacuole ( CITATION ). This result was confirmed by imaging of the NRAMP3::GFP tonoplast marker. After biolistic transformation of 30 day old plant leaves, the GFP fluorescence indicated membrane budding inside the vacuole of the pld ζ2 − KO mutant that was not apparent in the wild-type ( CITATION and CITATION ). Electron microscopy and confocal imaging therefore indicated that, in absence of PLDζ2, vacuole membrane development was different. Under Pi deprivation, the suppression of PLDζ2 reduces the lipid modification associated with Pi-deprivation CITATION . In order to analyze if the localization of PLDζ2 was affected by Pi deprivation, Arabidopsis was stably transformed via Agrobacterium transfection with binary vectors containing PLDζ2::GFP or N-ter-PLDζ2::GFP downstream of the CaMV35S promoter. Both in PLD ζ2- GFP and Nter-PLD ζ2- GFP plants, GFP fluorescence was located at the tonoplast as observed in pea. Relative position of mitochondria and chloroplasts as determined respectively by mitotracker and chlorophyll fluorescence confirmed localization to tonoplast ( CITATION ). Under Pi deprivation, GFP fluorescence was still located at the tonoplast in the PLD ζ2- GFP plants (Supl Fig. 4) as indicated by cell fractionation analysis. The same localization was observed with Nter-PLDζ2::GFP ( CITATION ). The overall aspect of the GFP fluorescence was however different from the Pi sufficient condition. The distribution along the membrane was rather uneven especially in young seedlings. When the Nter-PLD ζ2- GFP plants were grown on −Pi medium for 11 days, GFP fluorescence formed a dot pattern on tonoplast ( CITATION ). This dot pattern was also observed in the control plants grown on +Pi medium but the number of highly fluorescent dots in the −Pi condition was 4–5 times higher than in the +Pi condition. After 16 days of culture, the dots were brought back to low level in both conditions. We verified that level of GFP protein was similar in all conditions ( CITATION ). The punctuate pattern of the tonoplast was moreover specific to (Nter) PLDζ2 since we did not observed it with 2 other tonoplast GFP markers ( CITATION ). This therefore indicated transient formation of tonoplast domains enriched in PLDζ2 and some role of the N-ter part of the protein in this formation. Since DGDG synthesis induced by Pi deprivation is located in the plastid envelope and since mitochondria interact with plastids at an early stage of Pi deprivation CITATION , we analyzed the possible interaction of these domains with chloroplasts and mitochondria. By chemical labeling with mitotracker, we observed in root cells that most of GFP-fluorescent domains were very close to mitochondria (about 80%) ( CITATION and CITATION ). In the leaf tissue, mitotraker labeling was difficult to obtain under Pi deprivation. We however obtained some images showing that GFP domains were close to mitochondria too. We also observed that a relatively high proportion of GFP-domains were beside chloroplasts (34%) ( CITATION and CITATION ).
!~MM~! Photosynthetic Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension was cultured as in Ref. CITATION . Arabidopsis plants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa) with 0.5% sucrose with 1.25 mM Pi (+Pi) or with 5 μM Pi (−Pi) under a daily 10 h light cycle (150 μmol photons m −2 s −1 ). Full length PLDζ2 cDNA was obtained from Drs M. Seki and K. Shinozaki (RIKEN, Japan). Frame shift at position nucleotide 1712 from start of the coding sequence of At3g05630 was corrected by PCR as indicated in ( CITATION ). PCR products were sequenced and digested by SalI and NcoI restriction enzymes. Digested fragments were fused upstream and inframe with GFP S65T gene under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in pUC 18. Biolistic transformation of 10 d-old pea leaves was done as in Ref. CITATION . DsRed and KCO1::DsRed vectors were kind gifts of S. Thomine and K. Czempinski. PLDζ2-GFP cDNAs were inserted into the binary vector, pEL103, and into Arabidopsis Col via Agrobacterium using flower dip method. The pld ζ2 − KO mutant is the Arabidopsis homozygous insertion mutant SALK_094369 described in Refs. CITATION . CaMV 35S-NRAMP3-GFP and CaMV 35S-TIP1;1-GFP Arabidopsis lines are described in Refs. CITATION . Membrane fractions were prepared as in Ref. CITATION except that cells or plants were ground as in Ref. CITATION . Tonoplast-enriched fraction was recovered from the top of the sucrose gradient and heavy membrane-enriched fraction was collected at the interface between the 25% and 30% sucrose layers. PLDζ2 antibodies were obtained by rabbit immunization with a fusion protein containing the Nter 16 amino acid sequence of PLDζ2 linked in Cter to ovalbumin by a cystein and purified by affinity on the corresponding PLDζ2 oligopeptide. E37, γ-TIP, V-ATPase antibodies were used as in Refs. CITATION . 2E7 and W1C antibodies (gifts from B Satiat-Jeunemaitre and M Boutry) were used at 1/100 and 1/1000 dilution. Monoclonal of Anti-GFP (Clontech) was used at 1/2000 dilution. Immunodetection was done as described in Ref. CITATION . Confocal imaging was done as in Ref. CITATION . Each fluorescence emission was imaged sequentially (400 Hz, line to line) to avoid signal overlapping. GFP fluorescence emission was measured between 500 and 539 nm with excitation at 488 nm, DsRed fluorescence between 555 and 616 nm with excitation at 543 nm; chlorophyll fluorescence between 644 and 726 nm with excitation at 633 nm, mitotracker orange fluorescence between 555 and 616 nm with excitation at 543 nm.
