!~ABS~! During photosynthesis, two photoreaction centers located in the thylakoid membranes of the chloroplast, photosystems I and II (PSI and PSII), use light energy to mobilize electrons to generate ATP and NADPH. Different modes of electron flow exist, of which the linear electron flow is driven by PSI and PSII, generating ATP and NADPH, whereas the cyclic electron flow (CEF) only generates ATP and is driven by the PSI alone. Different environmental and metabolic conditions require the adjustment of ATP/NADPH ratios and a switch of electron distribution between the two photosystems. With the exception of PGR5, other components facilitating CEF are unknown. Here, we report the identification of PGRL1, a transmembrane protein present in thylakoids of Arabidopsis thaliana. Plants lacking PGRL1 show perturbation of CEF, similar to PGR5-deficient plants. We find that PGRL1 and PGR5 interact physically and associate with PSI. We therefore propose that the PGRL1-PGR5 complex facilitates CEF in eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Groups of transcriptionally coregulated nuclear genes (regulons) in Arabidopsis thaliana that were enriched for photosynthetic genes have been previously identified (CITATION). These photosynthetic regulons include genes of unknown function, the products of which represent putative photosynthetic proteins. One of these, designated PGRL1 (because of its pgr5-like photosynthetic phenotype; see below), is encoded by the two highly homologous genes At4g22890 (PGRL1A) and At4g11960 (PGRL1B) ( CITATION), which are located in segmentally duplicated regions of the A. thaliana genome. Genes for PGRL1 homologs exist in the nuclear genomes of algal and plant species, but not in prokaryotes. All PGRL1 proteins share a predicted N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide, two predicted transmembrane domains (TMs) separated by a loop of 19 amino acids, and a stretch of negatively charged amino acids in the N-terminal loop of the mature protein (CITATION). Both Arabidopsis isoforms of the protein, PGRL1A and B, are located in the chloroplast, as shown by in vivo subcellular localization of full-length N-terminal fusions to the dsRED protein and by the uptake into chloroplasts of PGRL1A and PGRL1B translated in vitro, with concomitant removal of their transit peptides ( CITATIONA and 2B; CITATION available online). Chloroplast subfractionation after import revealed that both isoforms are thylakoid proteins (CITATIONC). PSII-O is a peripheral, lumen-exposed thylakoid protein and can be released by treatment of thylakoid membranes with urea. Under such conditions, PGRL1 translated in vitro remains predominantly associated with the membrane fraction (CITATIOND), indicating that it is an integral thylakoid protein, as already suggested by the presence of TMs (see CITATION). To determine the topology of PGRL1 more precisely (CITATIONE), thylakoids were subjected to mild digestion with trypsin, such that only the stroma-exposed face was accessible to the protease. As expected, PSII-O on the lumen side of the thylakoid membrane was not affected, whereas multiple proteolytic fragments of PGRL1 were detected (CITATIONF). Because the N- and C-terminal parts of PGRL1, but not the loop between the TM domains, contain trypsin cleavage sites, Topology 1 depicted in CITATIONE represents the actual topology of PGRL1. The appearance of two unexpected, larger fragments might indicate that certain domains of PGRL1 are relatively more resistant to trypsin, perhaps implying tight interactions of PGRL1 with other stroma-exposed thylakoid proteins. Indeed, when protein complexes were released from the thylakoid membrane by treatment of thylakoids with β-dodecylmaltoside prior to exposure to trypsin, both PSII-O and PGRL1 were completely degraded (CITATIONG). The topology of the endogenous Arabidopsis PGRL1 protein was also examined by immunoblotting. A PGRL1-specific antiserum raised against the first 140 N-terminal amino acids of the mature protein (see CITATION) failed to detect PGRL1 in trypsin-treated membranes (CITATIONH), confirming that its N-terminal region is exposed to the stroma. Insertion mutants for PGRL1A and PGRL1B were obtained from publicly available T-DNA insertion collections ( CITATIONA), and each lacked the respective transcript (CITATIONB). The pgrl1a pgrl1b double mutant (pgrl1ab) was generated by crossing single pgrl1a and pgrl1b knockouts and screening the resulting F2 generation for homozygous double mutants. All single mutants retained varying amounts of PGRL1 protein derived from the nonmutated PGRL1 locus (CITATIONC), and they were indistinguishable from the wild-type (WT) with respect to their developmental behavior (CITATIOND and 3E). The pgrl1ab double mutant entirely lacked PGRL1 transcripts and the PGRL1 protein, grew slowly, and had pale green leaves (CITATIONC–3E; CITATION). The leaf color can be attributed to a decrease in chlorophyll concentration (chlorophyll a + b) (CITATION). WT-like growth and leaf color were fully restored by expression, in the pgrl1ab background, of either PGRL1A or PGRL1B under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus, indicating that the two genes are functionally redundant. Photosynthetic electron flow, measured on the basis of chlorophyll fluorescence, was altered at high light intensities (>400 μE/m2s) in pgrl1ab plants, but not in either of the single mutants ( CITATIONA; CITATION). The maximum quantum yield (FV/FM) in the pgrl1ab double mutant was normal, but it showed a moderate decrease in the effective quantum yield (ΦII) and a slight increase in the fraction of QA (the primary electron acceptor of PSII) present in the reduced state (1-qP) (CITATION). These findings suggest that electron flow through PSII is unaltered but that a later electron transfer step is affected. Increasing light intensity leads to induction of NPQ in WT plants, but in the pgrl1ab mutant the degree of induction was substantially reduced. This is reminiscent of the behavior of the pgr5 mutant, which is defective in Fd-dependent CEF (CITATION) (CITATIONB). An indirect method to measure CEF is to monitor NPQ induction during dark-to-light transition. In WT, NPQ was transiently induced within 1 min light (80 μE/m2s) and relaxed within 2 min postinduction (CITATIONC), a behavior thought to be caused by a transient imbalance between generation (by CEF) and relaxation (by ATP synthase activity) of ΔpH (CITATION). Both pgrl1ab and pgr5 mutants exhibited a severe reduction in the rapid and transient induction of NPQ (CITATIONC), which is attributed to CEF around PSI during the reactivation of photosynthesis upon exposure to light (CITATION). If indeed Fd-dependent CEF is affected in pgrl1ab, one would expect to see an effect on the oxidation state of the PSI reaction center (P700) and on reduction of PQ, as in the case of the pgr5 mutant (CITATION). The dependence of the P700 oxidation ratio (ΔA/ΔAmax) on light intensity in pgrl1ab plants, measured as absorbance changes at 820 nm, was indeed found to be very similar to that seen in the pgr5 mutant, where the decrease in CEF is thought to lower the ATP/NADPH ratio during photosynthesis, leading to stromal overreduction and depletion of NADP+, thus indirectly decreasing P700 oxidation by charge recombination (CITATION) (CITATIOND). To investigate the decrease in P700 oxidation observed in pgrl1ab and pgr5 in more detail, the amount of photooxidizable P700 was measured as a function of the dark interval between two consecutive illuminations. In WT, very short dark periods (≤5 ms) are sufficient to allow complete reduction of P700 +, which can then be reoxidized during the subsequent light period. In contrast, in pgrl1ab and pgr5 plants reoxidation of P700 in the light is slow (t1/2 of ∼50 ms) (CITATIONE and CITATIONA), suggesting that, in the absence of PGRL1 or PGR5, the regeneration of PSI acceptors is impaired, i.e., a significant portion of the PSI acceptors remain reduced during the dark period. To assess electron transfer from Fd to PQ during CEF around PSI, Fd-dependent reduction of PQ was monitored in situ as an increase in chlorophyll fluorescence under low measuring light (CITATION) (CITATIONF). In WT, the addition of NADPH and Fd to ruptured chloroplasts induces a marked increase in chlorophyll fluorescence that reaches a plateau after 60 s. In this in situ assay NADPH is thought to transfer electrons to Fd via the reverse reaction of the Fd:NADP+ reductase (FNR). In pgrl1ab plants, as in the pgr5 mutant (CITATION), the increase in chlorophyll fluorescence reaches a markedly lower plateau compared to WT, suggesting that PGRL1 and PGR5 operate in the same pathway associated with Fd-dependent CEF. In the same assay, the psad1-1 (CITATION) and psae1-3 (CITATION) mutants, which both display a pronounced decrease in subunits forming the stromal part of PSI and both exhibit a severe impairment of PSI oxidation and a partial block in LEF, were examined. Both mutants exhibited an increased CEF efficiency compared to WT, as indicated by the fact that chlorophyll fluorescence reaches a higher plateau. To measure the rates of CEF around PSI in intact leaves, the kinetics of P700 oxidation were followed after illumination with far-red light when PSII has a 10-fold lower turnover rate than PSI (CITATION). In this intact-leaf assay, the relatively slow P700 oxidation observed in dark-adapted leaves is thought to signal the occurrence of CEF, whereas the fast P700 oxidation observed in light-adapted leaves should reflect the rate of LEF because the Calvin cycle is activated (CITATION). Without preillumination, pgrl1ab, pgr5, and WT plants exhibited similar P700 oxidation kinetics, an observation that has previously been suggested to reflect similar abilities to perform CEF (CITATION). In leaves that were first illuminated for 5 min with green light to activate LEF, oxidation of P700 occurred as rapidly in pgrl1ab plants as in the pgr5 mutant and in WT plants. These results imply that, under these conditions, LEF has replaced CEF with equal efficiency in all three genotypes (CITATIONG and CITATIONB). However, after shorter periods of priming with green light, both pgrl1ab and pgr5 showed faster P700 oxidation than WT, clearly implying that the CEF-to-LEF transition occurs more rapidly in the two mutants. In the same assay, P700 oxidation is suppressed in dark-adapted leaves of psad1-1 (CITATIONH and CITATIONC) and psae1-3 (data not shown) mutants, indicating that they display increased rates of CEF. Because in psad1-1 and psae1-3 plants CEF around PSI appeared to be increased in both the in situ and the intact-leaf assay (CITATIONF and 4H), an increase in lumen acidification with concomitant enhancement of NPQ induction would be expected in the mutants. Previous measurements of NPQ, both under constant light and as a function of changing light intensity, have shown that plants with less PSI-D exhibit an increase in NPQ and in the size of the pool of xanthophyll cycle pigments (CITATION). Indeed, in both psad1-1 and psae1-3 plants, a dark-to-light transition provokes a more rapid and transient induction of NPQ than is observed in WT plants (CITATIONI). This indicates either that destabilization of the stromal ridge of PSI indirectly increases CEF as a regulatory response to the decrease in LEF, or that the altered structure of mutant PSI directly increases its affinity for components of CEF, resulting in a higher rate of CEF in the psad1-1 and psae1-3 mutants. Taken together, both the intact-leaf assay and the in situ assay indicate that CEF is perturbed to similar extents in pgrl1ab and pgr5 mutants. However, the relative severity of the CEF defect revealed by the two assays differs (CITATION; see CITATION section). In the psad1-1 and psae1-3 mutants, CEF appears to be increased. To investigate whether, in addition to their functional interaction, PGRL1 can also interact physically with PGR5, we employed split-ubiquitin and two-hybrid assays in yeast ( CITATIONA and 5B), as described in the CITATION. In the split-ubiquitin assay, PGRL1 and PGR5 interacted (CITATIONA). Because the topology of PGRL1 allows efficient protein-protein interaction only with the stroma-exposed N- and C-terminal loops (see CITATIONE), we infer that PGR5 must be located at the stromal face of the thylakoid membrane. The stromal exposure of PGR5 was indeed confirmed by protease protection assays (CITATION). To identify further physical interactions between PGRL1 (or PGR5) and other thylakoid proteins thought to be involved in CEF around PSI, interaction studies were extended to Fd, PSI-D, Cyt b 6 (PetB), and the two FNR isoforms, FNR1 and FNR2. Whereas PGR5 interacts in yeast two-hybrid assays with Fd and in the split-ubiquitin assay with Cyt b 6, the PGRL1 protein interacts in the split-ubiquitin assay with Fd, PSI-D, Cyt b 6, FNR1, and FNR2 (CITATIONA and 5B), pointing to a central role for PGRL1 in multiple interactions between components of Fd-dependent CEF. To determine which of the two stroma-exposed loops of PGRL1 is responsible for the protein-protein interactions described above, additional yeast two-hybrid analyses were performed. Interaction between PGRL1 and Fd were found to require the C-terminal loop of the former (see “C-PGRL1” in CITATIONB). Binding between the individual loops and PGR5, the FNR isoforms, PSI-D, or Cyt b 6 could not be detected (data not shown), implying that both loops might be required for such interactions. The abundance of negatively charged amino acids in the N-terminal loop of PGRL1 (see CITATION), however, indicates that the positively charged PGR5 protein (CITATION) might interact with this part of the mature PGRL1 protein. The relationship between PGRL1 and other thylakoid proteins, in particular PGR5, was also studied using 2D gel methods. In the pgrl1ab mutant, the stability of the major thylakoid multiprotein complexes was not noticeably affected (CITATION). Immunoblot analyses of total leaf proteins from photosynthetic mutants lacking PSII, PSI, Cyt b 6/f, or the chloroplast ATPase indicated that PGRL1 can accumulate independently of the major thylakoid protein complexes (CITATIONC). As in the pgr5 mutant (CITATION), Cyt b 6/f and NDH complexes accumulate to WT levels in pgrl1ab plants, as indicated by immunoblot analyses of representative subunits (CITATIOND). However, in the absence of PGRL1, no accumulation of PGR5 was observed, whereas PGR5 expression is not essential for accumulation of PGRL1 (CITATIONC). To probe the relationship between PGRL1 and PGR5 in more detail, thylakoid preparations from WT, pgrl1ab, and pgr5 plants were immunoblotted and analyzed with antibodies specific for PGRL1 and PGR5 (CITATIONE). Whereas PGRL1 can stably accumulate in plants devoid of PGR5, no traces of the PGR5 protein could be detected in thylakoid preparations from plants lacking PGRL1. At the mRNA level, the accumulation of PGR5 and PGRL1 transcripts was not affected in pgrl1ab and pgr5 plants, respectively (CITATION), indicating that the changes in protein abundance noted above occur at the translational or posttranslational level. Although presence of PSI is not required for the stable accumulation of PGRL1 (see CITATIONC), the protein is found together with PGR5 in PSI preparations from WT plants (CITATIONE), indicating that the two proteins at least transiently associate with the PSI complex. This association, however, plays no role in stabilizing the PSI complex because absence of PGRL1 (or PGR5) has no effect on the composition of the PSI complex or on the accumulation of its various subunits (CITATIONF). To clarify whether the abundance of putative components of CEF on the stromal side of PSI is changed in mutants with decreased (prg5 and pgrl1ab) or increased (psad1-1 and psae1-3) CEF rates, PGR5, PGRL1, Fd, and FNR were analyzed by western blotting of proteins isolated from total chloroplasts, stroma, or thylakoids (CITATIONG). Lack of PGR5 or PGRL1 has no marked effect on the abundance of Fd and FNR, although a slight increase in the stromal fraction of FNR can be seen. The increase in CEF in psad1-1 and psae1-3 is associated with increased levels of PGRL1 and PGR5, with a slight increase in the abundance of thylakoid-associated FNR, and with markedly increased amounts of Fd in the thylakoid fraction. Interestingly, CITATION found the amount of Fd in total protein extracts of PsaD antisense plants to be only slightly increased relative to WT, and in our hands Fd levels were not markedly altered in the total chloroplast preparations from psad1-1 or psae1-3 plants (CITATIONG), suggesting that the surplus protein might be associated with PGRL1-PGR5 and/or Cyt b 6/f (CITATION) or another thylakoid component. The increase in levels of PGRL1 and PGR5, together with Fd and FNR associated with thylakoids, seen in psad1-1 and psae1-3 plants might indicate that their markedly increased rates of CEF (CITATIONF and 4H) are functionally linked to the rise in levels of the PGRL1-PGR5 complex. If this hypothesis is true, measurable consequences for plant performance would be expected if one deprives psad1-1 or psae1-3 plants of the ability rapidly to switch from LEF to CEF by introducing the pgrl1ab mutation, thereby removing the PGRL1-PGR5 complex. To this end, pgrl1ab psad1-1 triple mutants were generated by crossing. The triple mutants indeed showed markedly decreased growth, very pale leaves, and a further impairment in photosynthesis ( CITATION; CITATION), implying that enhanced CEF, which requires formation of the PGRL1-PGR5 complex, helps to compensate for the photosynthetic lesion induced by the psad1-1 mutation.
!~MM~! Mutant lines were either obtained from the SAIL (CITATION) and SALK (CITATION) T-DNA mutant collections or from Toshiharu Shikanai (pgr5 mutant; CITATION). Methods for plant propagation and for the measurement of their growth have been described elsewhere (CITATION). Arabidopsis DNA was isolated (CITATION), and T-DNA insertion junction sites were recovered by PCR using combinations of insertion- and gene-specific primers and sequenced. Five plants of each genotype were analyzed and average values and standard deviations were calculated. Photosynthetic electron transport and NPQ were measured as described previously (CITATION). Changes in the redox state of P700 were measured by monitoring absorbance at 810 nm and 860 nm with a PAM 101/103 chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz) connected to a dual wavelength ED-P700DW emitter-detector unit. Oxidized P700 (ΔA) was recorded during illumination with actinic white light (from 70 to 800 μE/m2s). The maximum content of oxidized P700 (ΔAmax) was recorded during illumination with far-red light (720 nm; 50 μE/m2s). The P700 oxidation state was then calculated as (ΔA/ΔAmax). CEF-to-LEF transitions were measured as P700 redox kinetics in intact leaves with a flash spectrophotometer as described before (CITATION). Actinic light driving LEF was provided by a green LED peaking at 520 nm, and P700 oxidation was measured at 820 nm (CITATION). P700 was specifically excited by far-red light and the maximum extent of P700 + was estimated from the kinetics of P700 oxidation as described (CITATION). The redox state of P700 was measured as a function of the dark period between consecutive illuminations. The variable dark interval between the two illuminations (2 ms to 1 min) is designed to permit reduction of P700 + and regeneration (oxidation) of PSI electron acceptors. After the dark period a short saturating pulse of light was applied to reoxidize P700. The level of P700 reoxidation was then plotted as a function of the interval between the two illuminations. Ferredoxin-dependent plastoquinone reduction activity was measured in ruptured chloroplasts as described (CITATION) using 5 μM spinach ferredoxin (Sigma) and 0.25 mM NADPH. The PGRL1A and PGRL1B cDNAs were cloned 3′ to the T7 promoter in the pGEM-T vector (Promega). mRNA was obtained by transcription with T7 RNA polymerase (MBI Fermentas Leon-Rot, Germany) and used for translation in wheat germ extracts (Wheat Germ Extract System, Promega, Madison, WI, USA) in the presence of 35S-methionine. The PSBO construct was transcribed from the SP6 promoter, and proteins were synthesized in reticulocyte extracts (Flexi, Promega). All translation mixtures were centrifuged at 50,000 g (1 hr; 4°C) prior to import experiments. Thylakoid or total chloroplast proteins or PSI complexes were prepared from 4-week-old Arabidopsis leaves, fractionated on an SDS-polyacrylamide gradient gel (8%–25% polyacrylamide), and transferred to poly(vinylidene difluoride) membranes (CITATION). Filters were then probed with antibodies specific for individual thylakoid proteins and signals were detected by enhanced chemiluminescence (Amersham Biosciences). PGRL1-specific antibodies were raised against the N-terminal loop (aa 61 to 200; N-PGRL1) of PGRL1A. For this purpose the corresponding cDNA was cloned into pET151Topo (Invitrogen) and transformed into the BL21Star strain of E. coli for IPTG-induced protein expression following the manufacturer's instructions. The N-PGRL1 protein was purified by virtue of its His-Tag using Ni-NTA Agarose (QIAGEN) and injected into rabbits for antibody production. Thylakoid membranes were prepared as described (CITATION), washed twice with 5 mM EDTA (pH 7.8), centrifuged (5 min, 10,000 g, 4°C), and resuspended in double-distilled water. After solubilization with 2% (w/v) β-dodecyl maltoside for 10 min at 4°C, PSI isolation and subsequent fractionation by 16%–23% gradient SDS-PAGE were carried out as described (CITATION). Proteins were visualized by staining with colloidal Coomassie blue.
