!~ABS~! Sexual reproduction requires the specification of cells with distinct fates in plants and animals. The EMS1 (also known as EXS) leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRR-RLK) and TPD1 small protein play key roles in regulating somatic and reproductive cell fate determination in Arabidopsis anthers. Here, we show that ectopic expression of TPD1 causes abnormal differentiation of somatic and reproductive cells in anthers. In addition, ectopic TPD1 activity requires functional EMS1. Yeast two-hybrid, pull-down, and coimmunoprecipitation analyses further demonstrate that TPD1 interacts with EMS1 in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, TPD1 induces EMS1 phosphorylation in planta. Thus, our results suggest that TPD1 serves as a ligand for the EMS1 receptor kinase to signal cell fate determination during plant sexual reproduction.
!~RES~! In wild-type anthers at stage 5 of development, each lobe comprises five types of differentiated cells: the epidermis, endothecium, middle layer, tapetum, and microsporocytes (FIG-REFA). Microsporocytes are located at the center of each lobe, surrounded by a tapetum layer (FIG-REFB). At stage 6, tapetal cells are partially vacuolated, and microsporocytes are separated from each other (FIG-REFC). The ems1 anther at stage 5 completely lacks tapetum but produces excess microsporocytes (FIG-REFD). At stage 6, microsporocytes are abnormally enlarged and still attached (FIG-REFE). The tpd1 anther phenotype [see supporting information (SI) Text] is similar to that of ems1 (FIG-REFF). Consistent with previous findings (CITATION), our results show that the ems1 tpd1 double-mutant anther exhibits the identical phenotype to the ems1 and tpd1 single mutants (FIG-REFG), which suggests that TPD1 and EMS1 function in the same genetic pathway. [[FIGURE]] We then tested whether ectopic expression of TPD1 affects anther cell differentiation by expressing TPD1 with the cauliflower mosaic virus CaMV35S promoter (CaMV35S). Both the TPD1 gene and TPD1 protein levels were elevated in CaMV35S::TPD1 transgenic plants (data not shown). Seventy-seven percent of the 581 CaMV35S::TPD1 transgenic lines studied produced wider and shorter seed pods than wild type (SI Fig. 5), which is in agreement with the findings of Yang et al. (CITATION). Fifty-two percent of lines exhibited the greatly reduced fertility. Moreover, anthers in 25% of the lines had no or few viable pollen grains (SI Fig. 6). Our analysis of semithin sections revealed abnormal cell differentiation in these anthers. Well differentiated tapetum layers were not detected. Instead, cells in the position of a tapetum would normally be located are highly vacuolated (FIG-REF H–J). Microsporocyte-like cells also appear to have degenerated (FIG-REF I and J). High-resolution confocal microscopy confirmed that the tapetal cell and microsporocyte differentiation are impaired in these anthers. In wild-type anthers, tapetal cells typically contain two separated nuclei that result from endomitosis (CITATION, CITATION) (SI Fig. 7A). However, in CaMV35S::TPD1 anthers, we did not observe two nuclei in the tapetum-positioned cells (SI Fig. 7B), suggesting that the differentiation of tapetum is not complete. In wild-type anthers, the tapetum is established at stage 5 (FIG-REFB) and begins to degenerate at stage 10. Yang et al. (CITATION) found that formation of tapetum is normal in the TPD1 ectopic expression plants but that degeneration of tapetal cells is delayed. In addition, microsporocytes do not degenerate. Our results, which show more severe defects than the previous findings, indicate that ectopic TPD1 signaling affects tapetal cell fate determination and inhibits microsporocyte development. To test whether TPD1 signaling requires functional EMS1, we introduced the CaMV35S::TPD1 transgene into the ems1 mutant. The resulting CaMV35S::TPD1 ems1 transgenic plants exhibit the typical ems1 phenotype in seed pod size and fertility (SI Fig. 5). Furthermore, anthers in CaMV35S::TPD1 ems1 plants at stages 5 and 6 (FIG-REF K and L) have the same phenotypes as ems1 (FIG-REF D and E). Thus, TPD1 signaling requires the presence of EMS1, and the phenotypes observed in CaMV35S::TPD1 transgenic plants are the result of ectopic TPD1 signaling. To test whether TPD1 interacts with EMS1, we conducted yeast two-hybrid experiments that have been used to identify the protein ligand LAT52 for the LePRK2 LRR-RLK in tomato (CITATION). Initially, we did not detect any interaction between EMS1 and TPD1 using the entire EMS1 LRR domain (FIG-REF A and B). LePRK2 contains 5 LRRs with a low potential for glycosylation, whereas EMS1 has 29 LRRs with 11 potential N-linked glycosylation sites that may have interfered with protein interaction (CITATION). Therefore, we cloned a series of shortened cDNAs that encode truncated EMS1 LRRs (FIG-REFA). We found that one small fragment interacts with TPD1 (FIG-REF A–C, SI Fig. 8). We named this small fragment the TPD1-interacting region (TIR). The TIR contains four typical LRRs and one LRR with low similarity to the typical LRR (FIG-REFD). Therefore, our results indicate that TPD1 biochemically interacts with EMS1. [[FIGURE]] Direct interaction between TPD1 and EMS1 was further confirmed by GST pull-down experiments. We produced fusion proteins of GST to the entire EMS1 LRR domain, TIR and non-TIR (SI Figs. 9 and 10). The TPD1 protein was fused to three HA tags. Instead of GST and non-TIR, GST-EMS1 LRR and GST-TIR were able to pull down HA-TPD1 from crude protein extracts (FIG-REFA). Thus, our results strongly indicate that TPD1 directly interacts with EMS1 in a specific LRR extracellular region, which is TIR. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether TPD1 interacts with EMS1 in vivo, we performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments. EMS1::EMS1-cMyc and TPD1::TPD1-FLAG transgenic plants were created to express EMS1-cMyc and TPD1-FLAG proteins by their native promoters. Both transgenes complemented phenotypes of their corresponding mutants. EMS1-cMyc and TPD1-FLAG proteins were also detected in double-transgenic plants (FIG-REFB). Membrane protein extracts from young inflorescences of double-transgenic plants were immunoprecipitated with an anti-cMyc antibody. We detected TPD1-FLAG by Western blot with an anti-FLAG antibody (FIG-REFC Upper). In the reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation experiment, we also detected EMS1-cMyc from the anti-FLAG immunoprecipitates (FIG-REFC Lower). In conclusion, our results strongly indicate that TPD1 interacts with EMS1 in planta. We investigated whether the binding of TPD1 to EMS1 triggers a downstream signaling event. EMS1 is predicted to be a receptor-like serine/threonine kinase. Based on the well established paradigm for mammalian receptor kinase action, ligand binding can elicit receptor kinase phosphorylation. Such phosphorylation often causes a change in mobility in SDS/PAGE (CITATION). We generated EMS1::EMS1-cMyc tpd1 plants and found that EMS1-cMyc proteins from EMS1::EMS1-cMyc tpd1 plants (FIG-REFD, lane 2) migrated faster in SDS/PAGE than those from EMS1::EMS1-cMyc plants (FIG-REFD, lanes 1 and 3). To test whether the mobility shift was caused by phosphorylation, we treated proteins with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (CIP). This treatment shifted the slower migrating band (FIG-REFD, lane 4) to the same position as the faster band (FIG-REFD, lane 5, lane 6 is the control). Therefore, our results suggest that TPD1 binding leads to EMS1 phosphorylation. In summary, our studies indicate that interaction between TPD1 and EMS1 is required for cell fate determination during plant sexual reproduction. Furthermore, TPD1 interacts with EMS1 in vitro and in vivo, and TPD1 binding activates EMS1 phosphorylation. Thus, we propose that the TPD1 small protein serves as a ligand for the EMS1 receptor kinase.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were of the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype and were grown in Metro-Mix 360 soil (Sun-Gro Horticulture) in growth chambers under a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod at 22°C and 50% humidity. Semithin sections were made according to the previous procedure (CITATION). Images were photographed with an Olympus BX51 microscope by using an Olympus DP 70 digital camera. In this study, all DNA and cDNA fragments for cloning were PCR-amplified by the Phusion High-fidelity DNA polymerase (SI Table 1) (New England Biolabs). The resulting constructs were verified by sequencing. The TPD1 cDNA was cloned into pAD-GAL4 vector (HybriZAP 2.1 Two-Hybrid System; Stratagene). cDNAs encoding the entire EMS1 LRR domain and shortened EMS1 LRRs were cloned into the pBD-GAL4 vector (FIG-REFA). Yeasts containing a combination of bait and prey constructs were grown on synthetic complete (SC) medium without Leu, Trp, His, and SC medium with a series of concentrations (5, 10, and 30 mM) of 3-Amino-1,2,4-Triazole (3AT). The filter lift assay was performed according to the manufacturer's manual. Positive and negative controls were provided by the manufacturer. EMS1 cDNA fragments encoding the EMS1 LRR domain, TPD1-interacting region (TIR), and a non-TIR were PCR-amplified, respectively (SI Fig. 9 and SI Table 1), and then cloned into pGEX-4T-2 vector (Amersham) to produce GST fusion proteins (SI Fig. 10). The TPD1 cDNA was cloned into pWS93 vector to produce HA-TPD1 proteins in yeast. Three μg each of GST and GST fusion proteins bound to Glutathione-Sepharose-4B beads (Amersham) were incubated with 200 μg of crude protein extract overnight at 4°C. After washing three times, the pull-down mixtures were analyzed by Western blot using an anti-HA antibody (Roche). The Gateway binary vectors were used to generate transgenic plants. The 1740-bp EMS1 promoter and full-length EMS1 cDNA were PCR-amplified (SI Table 1), and then cloned into the pENTR TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The EMS1::EMS1 fragment was cloned into the Gateway binary vector pGWB16 with cMyc tag by an LR reaction (Invitrogen). The 2,770-bp TPD1 promoter was PCR-amplified (SI Table 1) and then cloned into a vector harboring the TPD1 cDNA. Similarly, the TPD1::TPD1 fragment was cloned the Gateway binary pGWB10 vector with the FLAG tag. To ectopically express TPD1, the TPD1 cDNA was cloned into the Gateway vector pGWB2 with a CaMV35S promoter. The resulting constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101. After plant transformation, transformants were screened with 50 mg/liter kanamycin and hygromycin. Forty individual EMS1::EMS1-cMyc and TPD1::TPD1-FLAG transgenic lines were crossed to their corresponding mutants to examine for complementation of the phenotype. EMS1::EMS1-cMyc and TPD1::TPD1-FLAG plants were then crossed to produce double-transgenic plants. Forty CaMV35S::TPD1 transgenic lines that occasionally produced a few pollen grains were also crossed to the ems1 mutant. Young inflorescences harvested from wild-type, single- and double-transgenic plants were ground into fine powder by using liquid N2 and then in cold grinding buffer [20 mM Tris·HCl (pH 8.8), 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 50 mM NaF, 100 μM Na3VO4, 20% glycerol, and protease inhibitor cocktails]. Samples were spun at 6,000 × g for 15 min at 4°C, and supernatants were further spun at 100,000 × g for 40 min at 4°C to pellet membrane fractions (CITATION, CITATION). The pellets were sonicated and resuspended in membrane protein extraction buffer [10 mM Tris·HCl (pH 7.3), 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 50 mM NaF, 100 μM Na3VO4, 10% glycerol, 2% Triton X-100, and protease inhibitors]. After centrifugation at 100,000 × g for 25 min at 4°C, supernatants were incubated with prewashed anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma–Aldrich) overnight at 4°C. After three washes, the eluted immunoprecipitates were used in Western blots to detect EMS1-cMyc (Anti-cMyc; Roche). The reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation was performed by using the Profound c-Myc Tag IP/Co-IP kit (Pierce). Proteins extracted from EMS1::EMS1-cMyc and EMS1::EMS1-cMyc tpd1 plants were separated on a 5% SDS/PAGE gel (CITATION), followed by Western blotting to detect EMS1-cMyc proteins. To confirm whether the mobility shift was caused by phosphorylation, proteins were treated with 10 units of calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (New England Biolabs) at 37°C for 60 min (CITATION).
