!~ABS~! Plants flower in response to both environmental and endogenous signals. The Arabidopsis LEAFY (LFY) transcription factor is crucial in integrating these signals, and acts in part by activating the expression of multiple floral homeotic genes. LFY-dependent activation of the homeotic APETALA3 (AP3) gene requires the activity of UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO), an F-box component of an SCF ubiquitin ligase, yet how this regulation is effected has remained unclear. Here, we show that UFO physically interacts with LFY both in vitro and in vivo, and this interaction is necessary to recruit UFO to the AP3 promoter. Furthermore, a transcriptional repressor domain fused to UFO reduces endogenous LFY activity in plants, supporting the idea that UFO acts as part of a transcriptional complex at the AP3 promoter. Moreover, chemical or genetic disruption of proteasome activity compromises LFY-dependent AP3 activation, indicating that protein degradation is required to promote LFY activity. These results define an unexpected role for an F-box protein in functioning as a DNA-associated transcriptional co-factor in regulating floral homeotic gene expression. These results suggest a novel mechanism for promoting flower development via protein degradation and concomitant activation of the LFY transcription factor. This mechanism may be widely conserved, as homologs of UFO and LFY have been identified in a wide array of plant species.
!~RES~! Plants containing an epitope tagged version of UFO driven by the 35S promoter, 35S::UFO-Myc (CITATION), displayed an ectopic petal and stamen phenotype (Fig. 1A,B) and serrated leaves (Fig. 1F, left). This phenotype is identical to that produced by 35S::UFO (CITATION), indicating that the epitope tag does not interfere with UFO activity. In addition, the complete elimination of LFY function in the 35S::UFO-Myc plants also resulted in a lfy mutant phenotype, with a complete transformation of flowers to shoots (Fig. 1A, arrows) or intermediate structures between flower and shoot (Fig. 1D). We observed that when LFY is heterozygous in the 35S::UFO-Myc background, the plants showed suppression of the ectopic 35S::UFO-Myc phenotype (Fig. 1A,C,E,F). Unlike 35S::UFO-Myc plants, which are completely infertile because of a complete transformation of carpels to stamenoid organs (Fig. 1A,B,E), 35S::UFO-Myc; lfy-26/+ flowers produced short curved siliques containing viable seeds (Fig. 1A,E). Most 35S::UFO-Myc; lfy-26/+ flowers appeared similar to wild type with four petals and six stamens (Fig. 1C). Serration of leaf margins, observed in 35S::UFO-Myc plants, was also reduced in the 35S::UFO-Myc; lfy-26/+ plants (Fig. 1F, middle), consistent with a proposed role for LFY during vegetative development (CITATION). These genetic data indicate that there are dose dependent effects of LFY on the 35S::UFO-Myc phenotype, suggesting that LFY and UFO physically interact in a complex. To demonstrate explicitly a physical interaction between LFY and UFO, we carried out several assays. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) have shown that LFY binds directly to sequences in the AP3 promoter (CITATION) (Fig. 2A). We showed that EMSA using both LFY and UFO proteins resulted in a supershift of the DNA/protein complex, even though UFO itself did not show any DNA-binding affinity for AP3 promoter sequences (Fig. 2A). These results indicate that UFO and LFY can directly and physically interact, at least within the context of AP3 promoter sequences. To examine whether such interactions were dependent on the presence of DNA, we also performed GST-pull down assays. As shown in Fig. 2B, a GST-LFY fusion protein could successfully pull down radiolabeled UFO, whereas GST alone could not. In addition, yeast two-hybrid assays that we carried out also demonstrated that LFY and UFO can physically associate in the absence of AP3 promoter DNA. LFY directly interacted with UFO when UFO was fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain and LFY was fused to the GAL4 activation domain (Fig. 2C). However, the reciprocal fusion of the GAL4 domain to LFY and UFO did not result in a positive interaction (Fig. 2C). As the conformation of an unoccupied F-box has been suggested to occlude protein-protein interaction domains (CITATION), we reasoned that the protein-protein interaction domain of UFO would be more accessible when the F-box domain of the protein was deleted. As expected, a ΔFUFO construct that lacks the F-box showed a much more robust interaction with LFY in yeast, irrespective of whether ΔFUFO was fused to the Gal4 activation domain or to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (Fig. 2C). We also found that LFY protein can homodimerize in yeast cells (Fig. 2C), while UFO does not (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] To test whether or not this interaction can be observed in a physiologically relevant context, we examined the ability of LFY and UFO to interact in inflorescence tissue. We generated transgenic plants harboring epitope tagged versions of both LFY and UFO. Because 35S::UFO-Myc; 35S::LFY-FLAG plants arrest at the seedling stage in a manner similar to that of 35S::UFO; 35S::LFY plants (CITATION) (and data not shown), we used 35S::LFY-FLAG; 35::UFO-Myc; ufo-2 (LF; UM) plants as a source of inflorescence tissues. These LF; UM plants produce flowers with petals or petaloid organs, indicating that both transgenes are functional, and that the dose of UFO is appropriate to bypass lethality (see Fig. S1 in the supplementary material). For co-immunoprecipitations, we used a line in which both the 35S::LFY-FLAG and 35S::UFO-Myc transgenes showed robust expression (Fig. 2D, input lanes). We performed immunoprecipitations with an anti-FLAG antibody to pull down the LFY immune complex and tested whether or not UFO was co-immunoprecipitated. As shown in Fig. 2D, UFO-Myc was detected in the anti-FLAG immunoprecipitated lane from LF; UM tissue, indicating that UFO co-immunoprecipitates with LFY. This interaction was weak but detectable, suggesting that UFO-LFY interactions may be transient. Neither control IgG immunoprecipitations nor immunoprecipitations from plants expressing only epitope-tagged UFO (UM) showed any UFO bands, indicating that this interaction is specific. Together, these observations demonstrate that UFO physically interacts with LFY both in vitro and in vivo. Phylogenetic analyses of LFY orthologs identified conserved N-terminal and DNA-binding C-terminal domains (CITATION). Nonsense mutations in LFY, even those located within the C-terminus [e.g. lfy-26 that lacks the last 48 amino acids (CITATION; CITATION)], cause strong lfy mutant phenotypes, implying that the C-terminal domain is crucial for LFY function. To determine which domains in LFY are required for the interaction with UFO, we generated four truncated versions of LFY: LFYN1 (amino acids 1-141), LFYC1 (amino acids 142-420), LFYN2 (amino acids 1-375, equivalent to the truncated mutant form found in lfy-26) and LFYC2 (amino acids 376-420) (Fig. 3A). Yeast two-hybrid assays revealed that LFYN1 failed to interact with ΔFUFO, while LFYC1 still retained the interaction albeit at somewhat reduced levels (Fig. 3B), indicating that the C-terminal domain of LFY is crucial for interaction with UFO and that the N-terminal domain may stabilize the interaction. Interestingly, LFYN2 did not show any interaction withΔ FUFO. We confirmed the abrogation of the interaction of LFYN2 with full-length UFO using GST pull-down assays, which were performed with bacterially produced GST fusion proteins and protein extracts from inflorescence tissues of 35S::UFO-Myc plants (Fig. 3C). Full-length LFY protein efficiently pulled down UFO protein from plant extracts, while LFYN2 failed to do so. Considering that a LFYN2 construct has also been shown to lack DNA-binding activity (CITATION), it appears that an intact C terminus is important for LFY function in two ways: conferring stable DNA binding affinity and interacting with UFO.   [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, LFY contains a sequence motif (DSGTH; amino acids 139-143) similar to the DSGXS `destruction box' motif found in substrates of the F-box protein β-TRCP (CITATION; CITATION). We tested whether the motif present in LFY can serve as the recognition site for UFO by mutagenizing the aspartic acid or serine residue to alanine (Fig. 3A). Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that mutation of either D139 or S140 had no effect on LFY interaction with either UFO or ΔFUFO (Fig. 3B). This observation indicates that the cryptic destruction box present in LFY is not required for recognition by the F-box protein UFO. The observation of physical interaction between LFY and UFO led us to test whether UFO could potentially act as a transcriptional co-factor and be recruited to the AP3 promoter through its physical association with LFY. Two AP3 promoter elements (termed DEE and PEE) have been shown to be essential for establishing the initial domain of AP3 expression (CITATION). LFY has been previously shown to bind to the DEE region of the AP3 promoter in vitro (CITATION). We first sought to confirm the LFY-AP3 promoter association in vivo using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). ChIP carried out using inflorescence tissue from 35S::LFY-FLAG plants showed that both the DEE and PEE sequence elements are enriched in the immunoprecipitated chromatin when compared with controls (Fig. 4A,B). We confirmed that we could recapitulate the interaction of LFY protein with other known DNA targets such as the AP1 promoter (CITATION), as AP1 promoter sequences were enriched in our ChIP assays (Fig. 4B). ChIP assays from inflorescence tissues of 35S::LFY-FLAG; ufo-2 plants also resulted in enrichment of the promoter region tested (Fig. 4B), indicating that functional UFO is not required for LFY binding to target sequences, although it may facilitate such binding. Control IPs or ChIP assays performed using wild-type tissue showed no significant enrichment of the promoter regions tested, nor did the control Mu genomic region show specific enrichment, indicating that the binding of LFY to the promoter fragments of AP1 and AP3 was specific (Fig. 4B). To examine if UFO can be recruited to the AP3 promoter, we performed ChIP assays using inflorescence tissues of 35S::UFO-Myc plants and examined whether AP3 promoter fragments were enriched in the immunoprecipitated chromatin. ChIP analyses (Fig. 4C) showed that UFO associates with the AP3 promoter and localizes to both AP3 promoter elements. Furthermore, we observed that the association of UFO with the AP3 promoter was abolished when ChIP was performed using extracts from lfy-26 mutant plants harboring the 35S::UFO-Myc transgene (Fig. 4C). As this association is dependent on the presence of functional LFY protein, these results indicate that UFO is recruited to the AP3 promoter through its interaction with LFY. To assay the ability of UFO to function as a transcriptional co-factor of LFY in planta, we fused the strong SRDX transcriptional repressor domain that contains an EAR motif (CITATION) to UFO and introduced it into Arabidopsis plants under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. If UFO acts as a LFY transcriptional co-factor, then 35S::UFO-SRDX should confer dominant repressor activity to the transcription events that LFY governs, resulting in a phenotype similar to that of lfy mutants. However, if UFO does not act via modulating transcription, the 35S::UFO-SRDX construct should generate a phenotype more similar to that of a UFO gain-of-function transgene. We also generated 35S::UFO-mSRDX transgenic plants in which the SRDX domain has been replaced with an epitope tag of similar size; these plants were used to control for the possibility that a chimeric UFO protein would non-specifically abrogate LFY activity.   [[FIGURE]] As expected, we observed that ten out of 30 independent primary 35S::UFO-SRDX transformants showed a range of lfy-like mutant phenotypes (Fig. 5). In addition, one line appeared indistinguishable from the strong ufo-2 mutant (Fig. 5F), whereas none of the transgenic lines showed the gain-of-function phenotype of UFO (Fig. 5; see Fig. S2 in the supplementary material). As is prominently seen in lfy mutants, these ten lines showed defects in petal and stamen development (Fig. 5; see Fig. S2). Furthermore, we also observed a complete or partial transformation of flowers to inflorescence shoots, which is a hallmark of lfy mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For example, two severe lines had up to six secondary inflorescences (data not shown) and most lines harbored intermediate structures between inflorescence shoots and flowers (Fig. 5B-D). These intermediate structures were often subtended by bracts (Fig. 5I, arrow), with leaf-like organs arranged in a spiral pattern rather than in a whorl (Fig. 5B-D) and internode elongation was also often observed (Fig. 5C,D). The only difference we observed in 35S::UFO-SRDX plants compared with lfy mutants is that secondary flowers rarely form in the axils of leaf-like organs in 35S::UFO-SRDX plants when compared with lfy mutants, which is consistent with the proposed role of LFY in functioning as a transcriptional repressor in inhibiting secondary flower formation (CITATION). Later in development, the 35S::UFO-SRDX flowers tended to terminate with fused carpelloid leafy organs (Fig. 5E), which is also a typical characteristic of lfy mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In most lines, the transformation of flowers to inflorescence shoots was less severe in later arising flowers (Fig. 5D; see Fig. S2A,B). RT-PCR analyses showed that none of these lines had a reduction in endogenous UFO transcript levels when compared with wild type, indicating that the 35S::UFO-SRDX phenotypes are not caused by co-suppression of endogenous UFO expression (data not shown). Furthermore, none of plants expressing 35S::UFO-mSRDX showed any lfy-like mutant phenotypes, indicating that the mSRDX fusion does not confer a dominant-negative effect. Rather, these control 35S::UFO-mSRDX plants showed a typical UFO overexpression phenotype. Together, these results demonstrate that the transformations seen in the 35S::UFO-SRDX plants reflected the dominant transcriptional repressor activity conferred by the fusion of the SRDX domain to UFO. The observed dominant-negative effect of the UFO-SRDX protein on LFY activity supports the idea of a direct physical interaction between LFY and UFO, and suggests that UFO acts as a LFY transcriptional co-factor. The two most severe 35S::UFO-SRDX lines showed more drastic transformations than the strongest lfy alleles characterized to date in terms of floral organ identity defects. These two severe lines produced lateral structures consisting of only reiterating leaf-like organs with stipules arranged in a spiral pattern (Fig. 5G, see Fig. S2C in the supplementary material). This severe phenotype was maintained throughout the inflorescence, and was not ameliorated over time. This indicates that the specification of floral organ identity was almost completely repressed in those lines. This phenotype resembled that found in ap1 lfy double mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and suggests the possibility that 35S::UFO-SRDX not only reduces the transcriptional activity of LFY, but also potentially of AP1.   [[FIGURE]] To examine whether these severe phenotypic defects are correlated with transgene expression levels, we quantified transcript levels of the UFO-SRDX transgene using quantitative RT-PCR. Indeed, the two most severe lines harboring lateral structures with only leafy organs (Fig. 5G) showed the highest levels of UFO-SRDX transcripts (see Fig. S2D in the supplementary material). In addition, the two strong lines that showed lfy mutant phenotypes (Fig. 5B-E; see Fig. S2D in the supplementary material) produced a few progeny that segregated in a 1:2 ratio of plants appearing identical to the most severe lines of the primary transformants when compared with parental lines, which was consistent with homozygous and hemizygous segregants for the transgene. Therefore, expression studies of the transgene and progeny testing strongly suggest that all the observed phenotypic defects described above were due to a strong dominant repressive effect of the UFO-SRDX transgene. Given that the F-box protein UFO associates with the AP3 promoter and functions as a transcriptional co-factor of LFY, it is probable that UFO mediates transcriptional regulation in a proteasome-dependent manner. To test if 26S proteasome activity is required for AP3 expression in vivo, we used an inducible form of LFY, 35S::LFY-GR (CITATION) and a proteasome mutant, halted root (hlr) (CITATION). This inducible form of LFY can activate AP3 transcription in seedlings upon DEX treatment only in the presence of UFO (CITATION). The proteasome subunit Rpt2a mutant hlr has been shown to have reduced proteasome activity during seedling development, and thus fails to degrade the substrate of the well characterized SCF complex SCFTIR1 (CITATION). Therefore, we introduced 35S::LFY-GR and 35S::UFO into a hlr mutant background and then tested for the requirement of proteasome activity for LFY and UFO to activate AP3 transcription in seedlings. 35S::LFY-GR; 35S::UFO; hlr-1 seedlings were grown without DEX for 7 days, treated with 1 μM DEX for 16 hours, and then harvested and the relative levels of AP3 expression assayed using qRT-PCR. We used 35S::LFY-GR; 35S::UFO seedlings as a positive control; DEX treatment resulted in the induction of AP3 expression as previously reported (CITATION) (Fig. 6A). However, AP3 expression was not induced in the hlr mutant background, even in the presence of both LFY and UFO, indicating that proteasome activity is required for AP3 transcription to ensue (Fig. 6A). To independently confirm the requirement of proteasome activity for the induction of AP3 expression in seedlings, we also used epoxomicin, a potent inhibitor of the proteolytic activity of the 20S core component of the proteasome (CITATION). We observed that epoxomicin treatment reduced the level of AP3 transcripts induced by DEX (Fig. 6B) up to 64% and 40 % in two independent biological replicates, respectively. These results indicate that proteasome activity is required for AP3 to be fully induced in seedlings by LFY and UFO. These observations support the idea that UFO acts to target proteins for 26S proteasome mediated degradation, and that such degradation is a requirement for AP3 transcription. To test whether UFO can act to post-translationally modify LFY, we examined the ubiquitylation status of LFY protein. When LFY-FLAG protein was subjected to SDS-PAGE, we detected the fusion protein at the expected size, but also saw a faint smear of cross-reacting higher molecular weight proteins (Fig. 6C, lane 1), suggesting that LFY may be ubiquitylated in vivo. The abundance of these high molecular weight proteins is somewhat reduced in a ufo-2 mutant background, suggesting that UFO may act to modify post-translationally a subset of LFY proteins in vivo (Fig. 6C, lane 2; Fig. 6D). We further showed that the levels of high molecular weight FLAG-tagged proteins are increased in epoxomicin-treated tissue when compared with mock DMSO treatment (Fig. 6C), suggesting that, in vivo, LFY is subject to ubiquitin-dependent proteasome mediated degradation. To confirm that the high molecular weight protein smear corresponds to ubiquitylated forms of LFY, or LFY-associated proteins, the immunoprecipitated LFY-FLAG protein, isolated from the inflorescences of 35S::LFY-FLAG transgenic plants, was examined for the presence of ubiquitylated species in both UFO and ufo-2 backgrounds (Fig. 6D). Polyubiquitylated species could be detected in immunoblots decorated with anti-ubiquitin antibody (Fig. 6D, upper panel). These observations indicate that LFY-FLAG, or tightly associated co-immunoprecipitated LFY-FLAG complex components, are polyubiquitylated in vivo. Furthermore, LFY-FLAG complex polyubiquitylation is partially abrogated in the ufo-2 mutant background (Fig. 6D). This suggests that, in vivo, LFY (or LFY complex) ubiquitylation is partly dependent on UFO activity, but probably also depends on the action of other F-box proteins.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants were grown in 3:1 vermiculite: soil at 22°C under 16-hour light/8-hour dark conditions. For dose studies, lfy-26 homozygotes were crossed to homozygous 35S::UFO-myc plants. Homozygotes for 35S::UFO-myc were selected in the F2 generation. Siblings from the F4 generation segregating for lfy-26 in the 35S::UFO-myc homozygous background were assessed for their phenotypes. For 35S::UFO-Myc; 35S::LFY-FLAG; ufo-2, each plant was subjected to western blot analysis to assay expression levels of epitope tagged proteins. Plants expressing both proteins at high levels were used for co-immunoprecipitations. For 35S::LFY-GR; 35S::UFO; hlr-1, kanamycin was used to identify the appropriate genotype that show a halted root mutant phenotype. Transgenic lines were generated using the floral dip method (CITATION). 35S::UFO-myc plants were generated previously (CITATION); lfy and ufo mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH) and hlr-1 seeds were a kind gift from Dr K. Okada, Kyoto University. pUFOA and pLFYX used in EMSA assays and GST pull-down assays have been reported (CITATION). Yeast constructs AD-LFY and BD-UFO were generated by inserting the LFY open reading frame into pGAD424 and that of UFO into pGBT9. BD-ΔFUFO was constructed by excising the F-box of UFO (amino acids 1-87) using NcoI and XhoI sites from BD-UFO and religated. Truncated versions of LFY were constructed using Expand High Fidelity PCR (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). 35S::LFY-FLAG was constructed by inserting three FLAG tags (DYKDDDDK) at the C terminus of LFY. To generate SRDX fused to UFO in frame, the ORF of UFO was cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR201 and then recombined into the destination vector pH35GEAR [a gift from Taku Demura (CITATION)], resulting in 35S::UFO-SRDX. The negative control (35S::UFO-mSRDX) was generated by replacing the SRDX domain with a FLAG tag in 35S::UFO-SRDX. This results in a UFO fusion protein containing an additional 19 amino acids (PAFLYKVVDNSDYKDDDKA; the FLAG tag is underlined; remaining sequences derived from vector) at the C-terminal end. 35S::UFO-SRDX contains an additional 24 amino acids (AFLYKVVVISRPLDLDLELRLGFA; SRDX domain is underlined; remaining sequences derived from vector). All binary expression constructs were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. Proteins for EMSA were transcribed and translated in vitro using wheat germ extract (Promega, Madison, WI). Preparation of DNA probes, binding reactions and gel running conditions were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). In frame fusion constructs were generated in pGAD424 or pGBT9 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) and transformed into the yeast strain Y190. lacZ liquid assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). GST-LFY and GST constructs were expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3) codon plus (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and affinity purified using glutathione sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). Approximately 1 μg of GST-LFY and GST-LFY-N2, based on spectrophotometric measurements, were incubated overnight with [35S] Met-labeled in vitro transcribed and translated UFO at 4°C in 0.2 ml of buffer A [100 mM NaCl, 50 mM Tris-Cl (pH 7.5), 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.1 mM EGTA, 50 mM NaF, 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.1% β-mercaptoethanol, complete protease inhibitor (Roche, Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN) and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride]. The beads were washed four times with ice-cold buffer B [100 mM NaCl, 50 mM HEPES (pH 7.5), 0.1 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and complete protease inhibitor] at 4°C. The washed beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE. Gels were fixed, dried and exposed to X-ray film. Total protein from inflorescence tissue was extracted using an extraction buffer containing 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and complete protease inhibitor (Roche, Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). Immunoprecipitation was performed using anti-FLAG M2 agarose (Sigma, St Louis, MO) at 4°C overnight. After washing four times with extraction buffer lacking NP-40, proteins were eluted using 3XFLAG (Sigma, St Louis, MO). Immune complexes were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted using anti-FLAG (M2, Sigma, St Louis, MO) or anti-Myc (9E10, Covance, Philadelphia, PA) antibodies and were detected using an ECL kit (Amersham Biosciences, Buckinghamshire, UK). To detect LFY ubiquitylation, immunoprecipitations were performed as above, except that the extraction buffer contained 20 μM MG132, and incubated for 3 hours at 4°C. The pellet was washed with extraction buffer four times and eluted using 3XFLAG. Samples were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with either anti-FLAG (M2, Sigma, St Louis, MO) or anti-ubiquitin (Sigma, St Louis, MO) antibodies. For anti-ubiquitin immunoblot, the membrane was pre-treated with denaturing buffer [6 M guanidine HCl, 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 5 mMβ -mercaptoethanol and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride] as described (CITATION). The procedure essentially followed (CITATION) and (CITATION). Approximately 5 g of inflorescence tissue from either UM or UM; lfy-26 was used as starting material. Immunoprecipitation (IP) was performed using 30 μl of anti-Myc affinity matrix (Covance, Philadelphia, PA). For control IP, the same amount of normal mouse IgG serum conjugated to agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) was used. Inflorescence tissue from either 35S::LFY-FLAG or 35S::LFY-FLAG;ufo-2 was used to IP the LFY-chromatin complex using 30μ l of anti-FLAG resin (Sigma, St Louis, MO). LFY-FLAG was eluted from the resin using 3XFLAG peptides. Amplification of genomic fragments was performed following standard semi-quantitative PCR conditions, with 28 to 35 cycles of amplification. Seven day-old seedlings of different genotypes were transferred to solid MS media containing 1 μM dexamethasone (DEX, Sigma, St Louis, MO) or 0.01% ethanol for mock treatment. Epoxomicin (10 μM) (Sigma, St Louis, MO) in liquid MS media was added to DEX containing MS and vacuum infiltrated for 1 minute. DMSO was used as mock control. After 4 hours of treatment, seedlings were harvested in liquid nitrogen and used for RNA preparation. For epoxomicin treatment, inflorescences were treated with 1 μM epoxomycin in 1/2 MS, 0.02% silwet for 4 hours.   [[FIGURE]] RNA was extracted from seedlings using Trizol (GibcoBRL, Frederick, MD). cDNA was synthesized using Superscript III Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Quantitative real-time PCR was performed in 25 μl using the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) on an ABI Prism 7900 HT Sequence Detector (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). Reaction conditions were: 95°C for 15 minutes, followed by 40 cycles of 94°C for 15 seconds, 53°C for 30 seconds and 72°C for 30 seconds. Primer sequences for AP3 have been reported (CITATION). Triplicate assays were carried out using at least two independent RNA samples. The amount of mRNA was quantified using DART-PCR 1.0 (CITATION) or 2-ΔΔCt and normalized either to the value of eukaryotic translation elongation factor-1α (EF-1α) or to that of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). PCR products were subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis to test the specificity of the amplification.
