!~ABS~! The timely transition from vegetative to reproductive growth is vital for reproductive success in plants. It has been suggested that messenger RNA 3′-end processing plays a role in this transition. Specifically, two autonomous factors in the Arabidopsis thaliana flowering time control pathway, FY and FCA, are required for the alternative polyadenylation of FCA pre-mRNA. In this paper we provide evidence that Pcf11p-similar protein 4 (PCFS4), an Arabidopsis homologue of yeast polyadenylation factor Protein 1 of Cleavage Factor 1 (Pcf11p), regulates FCA alternative polyadenylation and promotes flowering as a novel factor in the autonomous pathway. First, the mutants of PCFS4 show delayed flowering under both long-day and short-day conditions and still respond to vernalization treatment. Next, gene expression analyses indicate that the delayed flowering in pcfs4 mutants is mediated by Flowering Locus C (FLC). Moreover, the expression profile of the known FCA transcripts, which result from alternative polyadenylation, was altered in the pcfs4 mutants, suggesting the role of PCFS4 in FCA alternative polyadenylation and control of flowering time. In agreement with these observations, using yeast two-hybrid assays and TAP-tagged protein pull-down analyses, we also revealed that PCFS4 forms a complex in vivo with FY and other polyadenylation factors. The PCFS4 promoter activity assay indicated that the transcription of PCFS4 is temporally and spatially regulated, suggesting its non-essential nature in plant growth and development.
!~RES~! As part of the efforts to characterize plant polyadenylation factors, we identified four A. thaliana homologues of yeast polyadenylation factor Pcf11p based on amino acid sequence similarity in the Arabidopsis genome: they are designated as PCF11p-Similar protein 1 or PCFS1, PCFS2, PCFS4 and PCFS5. Yeast Pcf11p is a multi-domain protein required for both transcriptional termination and 3′-end processing of pre-mRNA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Domain mapping revealed that the N-terminal part of the C-terminal interaction domain (CID) of Pcf11p is responsible for the interaction with the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II large subunit, while its C-terminal part is responsible for interaction with polyadenylation factor Clp1p, Rna14p and Rna15p (CITATION). The C-terminal part also contains two zinc finger motifs (CITATION). All four Arabidopsis homologues contain a C-terminal part corresponding to that of yeast Pcf11p with similarity ranging from 34% to 38%, and the two zinc finger motifs in the C-terminal part were also conserved between Arabidopsis and yeast (Figure 1a). Among them, PCFS4 is the only one containing an intact CID domain at its N-terminus with 52% similarity to the CID domain of yeast Pcf11p (Figure 1a and Figure S1). While PCFS2 also contains an N-terminal sequence with 51% similarity to the CID domain of yeast Pcf11p, the conserved sequence is only in the smaller middle part, suggesting a truncated CID domain in PCFS2 (Figure 1a and Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] In contrast to a single copy of PCFS homologue in other eukaryotic genomes, the multiple copies of PCFS in plant genomes (two in rice, Oryza sativa, and four in Arabidopsis) suggest an expansion of PCFS genes after the divergence of plants from other eukaryotes (Figure 1b and Figure S1). Phylogenetic analysis of PCFS homologues indicates that the PCFS gene was duplicated at least once before the divergence of dicots from monocots since Arabidopsis AtPCFS2 and AtPCFS4 are more closely related to rice OsPCFS1 and OsPCFS2, respectively (Figure 1b). Another duplication also occurred after the divergence of monocots and dicots which gave rise to Arabidopsis AtPCFS1 and AtPCFS5 (Figure 1b). The high homology (90% of identity and 92% of similarity) between AtPCFS1 and AtPCFS5 suggests that the duplication was probably a recent event and that there might be functional redundancy between AtPCFS1 and AtPCFS5 (Figure S1). To characterize the function of PCFS4, we identified two T-DNA insertion mutants (pcfs4-1 and pcfs4-2) within exon 4 and intron 5, respectively, of the PCFS4 gene in a Columbia (Col) genetic background from the SALK T-DNA collection (Figure 2a; CITATION). Both mutants flowered later than Col in a long-day growth condition (Figure 2b and Table 1). The flowering delay is associated with an increased number of rosette and cauline leaves (Figure 2b and Table1), suggesting that the late flowering phenotype of the mutants did not result from growth retardation but rather from late floral initiation (CITATION). Gene expression analysis of PCFS4 with northern blotting using PCFS4 full-length cDNA as a probe revealed a shorter transcript in pcfs4-1 mutant than in Col, suggesting that PCFS4 transcription was disrupted (Figure 2c). Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) assay of PCFS4 expression confirmed that the truncated transcript in pcfs4-1 was derived from the 5′-end of the PCFS4 transcript. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis with primer pair p3/p4, which spans the T-DNA insertion site in the pcfs4-1 mutant, detected a strong fragment in Col, as expected, while no amplification was detected in pcfs4-1 mutants (Figure 2a,d). On the other hand, an equally strong fragment was amplified in both pcfs4-1 and Col using primer pair p1/p2, which are located upstream of the T-DNA insertion site of pcfs4-1 (Figure 2a,d), confirming the existence of shorter transcripts. [[FIGURE]] Plants were grown in long-day (LD) or short-day (SD) conditions with (+) or without (−) vernalization (VRN). Flowering time (FT) was counted in days from the day of germination to the day of the first flower opening. Total number of leaves (No. leaves) was counted as the sum of rosette leaves and the cauline leaves on the main stem. Genotypes 11-2 and 16-6 are two homozygous complementation lines containing PCFS4 transgene on the pcfs4-1 mutant background. Data represent mean ± standard error of samples (n ≥ 12). n.d., not determined. To confirm that the late flowering phenotype of pcfs4 mutants was indeed caused by the mutation of the PCFS4 gene, a complementation test was performed in which the pcfs4-1 mutant was transformed with the genomic fragment spanning the complete PCFS4 gene (including the 1.4-kb region upstream of translation start site and the 0.7-kb region downstream of translation stop site). We observed that the flowering phenotype of transgenic plants was indeed restored to that of the wild type as demonstrated in both the T1 (Table S1) and subsequent generations of homozygous transgenic lines (Figure 2b and Table 1), indicating that the mutation of PCFS4 is responsible for the late flowering phenotype. In addition to the late flowering phenotype, the leaf morphology of pcfs4 mutants was also altered, with the leaf edge curved towards the abaxial side (Figure 2b), a phenotype that was also complemented by the wild-type PCFS4 gene in transgenic plants (Figure 2b). Other than the late flowering and the altered leaf morphology, the pcfs4 mutants grew and developed normally (Figure 2b). Late flowering mutants in Arabidopsis have been classified into three groups based on their responses to photoperiod and vernalization (Koornneef et al., 1991, 1998). One group of mutants, including fca and fy, which belong to the autonomous pathway, shown delayed flowering in both short-day and long-day growth conditions and after vernalization treatments, while the other two groups are either insensitive to vernalization or to both short-day conditions and vernalization (Koornneef et al., 1991, 1998). To determine which pathway was affected by pcfs4 mutants, the effects of both short-day conditions and vernalization treatment on pcfs4 flowering time were tested. The flowering time of pcfs4-1 and pcfs4-2, measured by total leaf number when the first flower was open, was greatly reduced after 22 days of vernalization treatment (Table 1) than without vernalization treatment, suggesting that the vernalization pathway was still intact in pcfs4 mutants. On the other hand, the leaf number of pcfs4-1 and pcfs4-2 grown in a short-day photoperiod was twice that of pcfs4-1 and pcfs4-2 grown in long-day conditions (Table 1), suggesting that the photoperiod pathway was not affected in pcfs4 mutants. In either situation, the leaf numbers of pcfs4 mutants were still more than that of Col control grown under the same conditions (Table1). As the effect of pcfs4 mutants on flowering time is independent of photoperiod and vernalization, it can be concluded that Arabidopsis PCFS4 is a novel autonomous pathway factor. The factors in the autonomous pathway promote flowering by suppressing FLC expression (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). If the same is true for PCFS4, FLC expression should be increased in the pcfs4 mutants. Compared with wild-type Col, the abundance of FLC mRNA was indeed increased in pcfs4-1 mutant, which was similar to the FLC level in fy-3 mutant, but less abundant than that found in fy-2 mutant (Figure 3a). Consistent with their similar FLC expression levels, pcfs4-1 and fy-3 mutants had their flowering delayed to a similar extent (Table 1). More importantly, the FLC expression level in the complementation line 16-6 was restored to a level similar to that of the wild type as well (Figure 3a), indicative that the role of PCFS4 on the flowering time is mediated by FLC. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the increase of FLC expression, the accumulation of SOC1, FT and LFY mRNA (genes whose expressions are negatively regulated by FLC; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), was decreased in pcfs4-1 as well as in fy-2 and fy-3 mutants (Figure 3b). Again, the transcript abundance of these genes was restored to the level of the wild-type control in the complemented line 16-6. Thus, our results show that Arabidopsis PCFS4 promotes flowering by suppressing FLC-mediated inhibition of flowering. To test whether FLC is the sole target of PCFS4 in regulating flowering time, we created a pcfs4-1 flc-3 double mutant. In long-day growth conditions, the pcfs4-1 flc-3 double mutant flowered earlier than the pcfs4-1 mutant, comparable to the Col control but later than the flc-3 mutant (Figure 3c). On the one hand, this result confirmed the role of FLC in mediating the function of PCFS4 in the control of flowering time. On the other hand, it indicated that PCFS4 also regulated flowering time through an FLC-independent pathway because it still postponed flowering in the absence of FLC. Since both PCFS4 and FY are polyadenylation factors and since the characteristics of the pcfs4 mutants have a remarkable resemblance to those of fy and fca in both flowering time and molecular phenotype (Figures 2 and 3, Table 1; CITATION; CITATION), we hypothesized that PCFS4 might function together with FY and FCA to regulate FCA pre-mRNA processing. To test this hypothesis, we first asked whether the levels of different transcripts of FCA were altered in the PCFS4 mutants. Indeed, the abundance of FCA-β was significantly decreased in pcfs4-1 mutant compared with Col, although to a lesser extent than that observed in the fy-2 mutant (Figure 4a,b). The reduced FCA-β level was accompanied by the increase of FCA-γ in both pcfs4-1 and fy-2 mutants (Figure 4a,b), as one would expect based on what was observed previously (CITATION). These results demonstrated that, similar to FY and FCA, Arabidopsis PCFS4 stimulates the usage of the alternative poly(A) site within FCA intron 3 and thus alters the expression profile of FCA. [[FIGURE]] In light of the above results, we then ask whether PCFS4 physically interacts with FY and FCA. To make this determination, we conducted yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assays. The coding sequences of PCFS4 and FY were cloned into Gateway® compatible pGAD and pGBD plasmids (CITATION), resulting in GAD–PCFS4 and GBD–FY fusions, respectively. No interaction was observed between GAD–PCFS4 and GBD–FY (Figure 5a), indicating that PCFS4 did not directly interact with FY. Since both GBD–PCFS4 and GBD–FCA showed self-activation activity for GAL4 expression (data not shown), the interaction between PCFS4 and FCA could not be addressed with the Y2H assay. However, we found that PCFS4 did interact with another putative polyadenylation factor, Clp1p-similar protein 3 (termed CLPS3; GenBank accession no. NP_187119; Figure 5a). CLPS3 is an Arabidopsis homologue of yeast polyadenylation factor cleavage/polyadenylation factor IA subunit (Clp1p) that has been tightly associated with Pcf11p in yeast, both functionally and physically (CITATION; CITATION). This result raised the possibility that the interaction between PCFS4 and FY might be bridged by CLPS3. However, CLPS3 did not directly interact with FY in the Y2H assays either (Figure 3a). These results still do not rule out the possibility that PCFS4 indirectly interacts with FY through other protein factor(s). It is possible that PCFS4 and FY might exist in a multisubunit complex in vivo in a way that cannot be directly detected by the Y2H assay. Therefore, we applied an alternative strategy, tandem affinity purification (TAP; (CITATION), to detect the possible in vivo protein–protein associations. [[FIGURE]] To accomplish this we generated PCFS4–TAP and GUS–TAP (used as a control) gene fusions driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and transformed the constructs into Arabidopsis suspension culture cells. Following the TAP procedure, immunoblot analyses of the purified proteins were performed with anti-FY antibody (CITATION) and anti-CLPS3 antibody. As shown in Figure 5(b), no signal was detected with either anti-FY or anti-CLPS3 antibodies in the GUS–TAP (negative control) purified sample. In contrast, in the PCFS4–TAP purified sample, a peptide of ∼40 kDa and another of ∼75 kDa were detected by anti-CLPS3 and anti-FY antibodies, respectively (Figure 5b). The molecular weights of detected peptides are consistent with the predicted sizes for CLPS3 and FY, indicating the presence of these proteins in the PCFS4–TAP purified complex. These results show that Arabidopsis PCFS4 forms a protein complex in vivo with FY and CLPS3, and interacts directly with CLPS3 and indirectly with FY potentially through other unknown protein(s). To further probe the function of PCFS4, the temporal and spatial patterns of PCFS4 expression were analysed using β-glucuronidase (GUS) staining analysis in transgenic plants. The 1.4-kb promoter region upstream of PCFS4 translation start site, which was proved to be sufficient to activate the PCFS4 gene in the complementation test described above, was fused to the GUS gene, resulting in PCFS4pro–GUS fusion. The fusion construct was transformed into wild-type Col plants. The GUS activity was then analysed for a variety of developmental stages of the transgenic plants (Figure 6a). In embryo development, GUS activity was not detectable until the heart stage (Figure 6a, parts a–d). Starting from the torpedo stage, GUS activity spreads through the whole developing embryo (Figure 6a, parts d–f). Intriguingly, the GUS activity started to disappear in the root tip of the mature embryo (of upturned-U stage), and the lack of GUS activity in the root tip persisted for the rest of the plant’s life cycle (Figure 6a, parts f–i). In the seedlings, GUS activity was primarily evident in the shoot apical meristem and young leaves (Figure 6a, parts g–j). In flowers, GUS activity was detectable in sepals, stamens and pistils, but not in petals (Figure 6a, part k). This pattern of GUS activity indicates that PCFS4 transcription is developmentally and tissue-specifically regulated. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether the PCFS4 promoter activity detected by GUS staining indeed reflects the expression of PCFS4 in vivo, we performed semi-quantitative RT-PCR assays for its expression in different tissues of 10-day-old wild-type seedlings. As shown in Figure 6(b), the PCFS4 expression was hardly detectable in root tips and cotyledons, in contrast to the strong signal in shoots and roots (excluding tip). This result is mostly consistent with the promoter activity of seedlings of the same age seen in Figure 6(a, part i), hence validating the GUS staining results. To determine the subcelluar localization of Arabidopsis PCFS4 and CLPS3, the gene constructs of PCFS4–GFP and CLPS3–GFP fusions driven by the CaMV 35S promoter were made and transformed into wild-type Col. The GFP fluorescence in the transgenic plants was examined under a confocal microscope. The GFP signals in PCFS4–GFP transgenic plants were observed in both cytoplasm and nucleus as in the control plants containing 35S–GFP transgene (Figure 7), suggesting that PCFS4 is located in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. In contrast, the GFP signals in CLPS3–GFP transgenic plants are solely located in the nucleus (Figure 7), suggesting the nuclear localization of CLPS3. The nuclear localization of both PCFS4 and CLPS3 is consistent with their physical interaction (Figure 5) and with their cellular function in 3′-end processing of mRNA, which occurs in the nucleus. The cytoplasmic localization of PCFS4 suggests that it may have additional cellular function(s). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All A. thaliana genotypes used in this study were in Col-0 (CS6000) background. The pcfs4-1 (SALK_102934), pcfs4-2 (SALK_063588), fy-2 and fy-3 mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resources Center (ABRC, Ohio State University; CITATION). Mutant flc-3 was a kind gift from Dr Yuehui He. Seeds were sown in plastic pots (50 × 60 mm) with soil (Conrad Fafard, http://www.fafard.com/) stratified at 4°C for 2 days and moved to a growth chamber. The growth conditions were set as the following: temperature 22°C; light intensity 100 μmol m−2 sec−1; photoperiods 16-h light/8-h dark for long-day and 8-h light/16-h dark for short-day. Homozygous pcfs4-1 and pcfs4-2 were genotyped based on kanamycin resistance and PCR markers using gene-specific primers (p376/p379 for pcfs4-1 and p401/p422 for pcfs4-2) and T-DNA left boarder primer (p341; all primer sequences are listed in Table S2). Genotyping of fy-2 was carried out as described (CITATION). The double mutant pcfs4-1 flc-3 was created by crossing pcfs4-1 and flc-3 mutants, and the F2 plants were genotyped with PCR markers as described (CITATION). Flowering time was analysed as described (CITATION). In brief, flowering time was scored as the number of days from seed germination to the opening of the first flower. Leaf number was counted as the total number of rosette and cauline leaves on the main stem of each plant. All gene fusions in this study were constructed by employing the Gateway® cloning technology (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). The DNA fragments of interest were first amplified with PCR and cloned into pTOPO-D vector (Invitrogen), forming entry clones, and then introduced into destination vectors by the LR reaction. All clones were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Gene fusion constructs in appropriate T-DNA plasmids were first introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and then transferred into Col plants (CITATION) or suspension cells (CITATION), as described, and screened by appropriate antibiotics or herbicide. For the complementation test of the wild-type PCFS4 gene to the pcfs4-1 mutant allele, a 5.5-kb genomic fragment spanning the PCFS4 gene (1.5 kb extended upstream of the translation start site and 0.7 kb extended downstream of the translation stop site) was amplified with primers p601 and p602 (Table S2) from a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone T4B21 (from ABRC) with eLongase Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen), as described by the manufacturer. The PCR product was cloned into pTOPO-D vector, resulting in the PCFS4gene–pTOPO entry clone, and it is further cloned into pMDC123 binary vector (CITATION), resulting in plasmid PCFS4gene–pMDC123, using methods as described by CITATION. The pcfs4-1 mutant plants were transformed, and six independent homozygote lines were identified. All of the transgenic lines were restored to wild type, as shown in Figure 1 and Table 1. For Y2H assays, the coding sequences (CDSs) of PCFS4, FY, CLPS3 and the RNA polymerase II CTD were fused to the Gal4 activation or binding domain, respectively. Briefly, the PCFS4 CDS was amplified from plasmid RAFL21-50-C04 (purchased from Riken; http://pfgweb.gsc.riken.go.jp) with primer pair p459/p442 and cloned into pTOPO-D, resulting in PCFS4CDS-pTOPO(TAG); the FY CDS was amplified from plasmid pUNI51 (from ABRC) with primer pairs pFY(ATG)/pFY(TAG), and cloned into pTOPO-D, resulting in plasmid FYCDS–pTOPO; The CDS of the RNA Pol II CTD domain was amplified with primer pair p590/p591 from the CTD–GST construct (a gift from Dr A. Hunt, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA) and cloned into pTOPO-D vector. LR reactions were then performed to introduce the CDSs of PCFS4, FY and CTD into pGAD or pGBD vectors, resulting in pGAD–PCFS4, pGBD–FY and pGBD–CTD constructs, respectively. The CLPS3 CDS was introduced into pGBD vector from plasmid U17288 (from ABRC), resulting in the pGBD–CLPS3 construct. The Y2H assay was performed as described (CITATION). For the TAP purification assay, the PCFS4 CDS was amplified from RAFL21-50-C04 with primer pair p459/p442 and cloned into pTOPO-D, resulting in PCFS4CDS–pTOPO(-TAG). The PCFS4 CDS was further cloned into cTAPi binary vector (CITATION), resulting in PCFS4–TAP plasmid which was used for Arabidopsis cell culture transformation (CITATION). For PCFS4 promoter activity analysis, PCFS4pro–GUS fusion was constructed. A 1.5-kb DNA fragment upstream of the translation start codon of PCFS4 was amplified with primer pair p601 and p584 from BAC clone T4B21. The PCR product was cloned into pTOPO-D vector, resulting in a PCFS4pro–pTOPO entry clone and further cloned into pMDC162 (CITATION), resulting in plasmid PCFS4pro–pMDC162, which was then finally transformed into Col plants. For generating PCFS4:GFP and CLPS3:GFP fusions, the PCFS4 CDS was amplified from plasmid RAFL21-50-C04 with primer pair p459/p589 and cloned into pTOPO-D, resulting in PCFS4CDS–pTOPO(-TAG). The PCFS4 CDS was further cloned into pMDC83 by the LR reaction, resulting in PCFS4–pMDC83 plasmid. The CLPS3 CDS was introduced into pMDC83 from plasmid U17288 (from ABRC) by the LR reaction, resulting in plasmid CLPS3–pMDC83. For semi-quantitative analysis, total RNA, extracted from 16-day-old seedlings, was treated with DNase I (Ambion, http://www.ambion.com/), and then 3 μg of DNA-free total RNA was used for a reverse transcription reaction (20 μl) with Oligo(dT)18 primer using Superscipt III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. For PCR, 1 μl of reverse transcription product was used as a template in a 20-μl reaction. For northern blot analysis, 10 μg of total RNA, or poly(A) RNA from 400 μg of total RNA, were fractioned on a 1.2% denatured gel and blotted to a nylon membrane. The cDNA probes were labelled with Priming-it II® Random Primer Labeling Kit (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/). Hybridization and washing were as previously described (CITATION). Expression of the PCFS4 promoter was monitored by GUS activity (CITATION) of the transgenic plants containing PCFS4pro–pMDC162. Briefly, seedlings grown on MS medium were harvested at different times. Open flowers and siliques at different developmental stages were collected from plants grown in soil. The siliques were carefully opened (without wounding the developing seeds) with a dissection blade and stained with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-glucuronic acid, cyclohexylammonium salt (X-Gluc) at 37°C for 16 h. For differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy examination of GUS activity of the embryos, the siliques were fixed in solution (ethanol:acetic acid = 1:1) for 4–8 h and cleared in Hoyes Medium overnight as described (CITATION). For later-stage (from the torpedo stage) embryos, the embryos were carefully squeezed out from seed coat before observation under a DIC microscope. The TAP assay was performed essentially as described (CITATION). Briefly, the protein extract was cultured with IgG Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare Bioscience; http://www.gelifesciences.com) at 4°C for 4 h then washed four times. The protein complex was released from the beads with AcTEV protease (incubated for 2 h at 16°C; thus the protein A part of the TAP-tag is free from the protein complex). After a brief centrifugation (105, 12 000 g), the supernatant was used for immunoblot analysis. The western blot analysis was performed as described (CITATION). The FY antibody was a gift from Caroline Dean (John Innes Centre, UK). The detection of the TAP tag protein A part was done by using the peroxidase-conjugated anti-peroxidase antibody (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). The peptide ‘ARRRFAKASTSNDPEC’ at 111 amino acids downstream of the N-terminal of CLPS3 was synthesized, conjugated to KLH by an Imject maleimide-activated mcKLH kit (Pierce, http://www.piercenet.com/) and used to immunize two New Zealand white rabbits as described (CITATION). Peptide-specific CLPS3 antibodies were purified from CLPS3 cross-reactive serum using affinity purification techniques (AminoLink; Pierce). The CLPS3 antibody was used at a concentration of 1:2000 according to standard procedures. The transgenic plants containing PCFS4–pMDC83 or CLPS3–pMDC83 plasmid were germinated in MS medium for 3–5 days. The GFP signals in the guard cells of cotyledons were examined under a confocal microscope. The amino acid sequences of homologous PCFS proteins from a variety of eukaryotes were downloaded from NCBI, aligned with ClustalW (CITATION) and then analysed using parsimony and bootstrap programs within the paup 4.0 package.
