!~ABS~! ABI1, a protein phosphatase 2C, is a key component of ABA signal transduction in Arabidopsis that regulates numerous ABA responses, such as stomatal closure, seed germination and inhibition of vegetative growth. The abi1-1 mutation, so far the only characterized dominant allele for ABI1, impairs ABA responsitivity in both seeds and vegetative tissues. The site of action of ABI1 is unknown. We show that there is an essential requirement for nuclear localization of abi1 to confer insensitivity towards ABA responses. Transient analyses in protoplasts revealed a strict dependence of wild-type ABI1 and mutant abi1 on a functional nuclear localization sequence (NLS) for regulating ABA-dependent gene expression. Arabidopsis lines with ectopic expression of various abi1 forms corroborated the necessity of a functional NLS to control ABA sensitivity. Disruption of the NLS function in abi1 rescued ABA-controlled gene transcription to wild-type levels, but also attenuated abi1-conferred insensitivity towards ABA during seed germination, root growth and stomatal movement. The mutation in the PP2C resulted in a preferential accumulation of the protein in the nucleus. Application of a proteosomal inhibitor led to both a preferential nuclear accumulation of ABI1 and an enhancement of PP2C-dependent inhibitory action on the ABA response. Thus, abi1-1 acts as a hypermorphic allele, and ABI1 reprograms sensitivity towards ABA in the nucleus.
!~RES~! ABI1 interaction with the transcription factor ATHB6 implied a nuclear localization of the PP2C (CITATION). Sequence analysis of ABI1 revealed a short region enriched in basic amino acids sharing similarity to the monopartite NLS of simian virus 40 large T antigen, which has known functionality in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The predicted NLS of ABI1 is located at the very end of the carboxyl-terminal domain of the PP2C (Figure 1a). Amino-terminal GFP fusions of ABI1 and abi1, and of NLS-deleted versions (dNLS), were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts to examine a possible NLS function. ABI1-GFP and abi1-GFP predominantly accumulated in the nucleus (Figure 1b). Deletion of the NLS led to a redistribution of the proteins between the nuclear and cytosolic compartments, similar to the GFP control. To examine whether disruption of NLS function rather than mere carboxyl-terminal truncation of the PP2C yielded the change in subcellular distribution, four lysine and arginine residues of the NLS were mutated into asparagine and glutamine residues (ABI1mtNLS; Figure 1a) with the aim of inactivating the NLS of both wild-type and mutant PP2Cs. The basic amino acid residues of NLS are critical for function, and substitution for neutral amino acid residues abrogates nuclear import (CITATION). The cellular localization of abi1mtNLS (Figure 1b) and ABI1mtNLS (data not shown) was indistinguishable from the GFP control. In addition, we examined whether the NLS of simian virus 40 large T antigen is capable of rescuing the nuclear compartmentation of abi1mtNLS. The fluorescent signal of abi1dNLS-SV40NLS-GFP clearly accumulated in the nucleus of Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 1c). The analysis provides strong evidence for a NLS-dependent import of the PP2C into the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] Next, we addressed whether the capacity of ABI1 to enter the nucleus affects ABA signal transduction. ABI1 and abi1 are known to block ABA-inducible gene expression when they are ectopically expressed in protoplasts of maize or Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). To monitor ABI1 action on the ABA signal pathway, Arabidopsis protoplasts were transfected with various ABI1 effector genes and an ABA-dependent reporter construct (Figure 2a). Aliquots of the transfected sample were analysed for their ABA response after incubation in the presence and absence of ABA, by normalizing the reporter expression to GUS activity that was generated by co-transfection of a constitutively expressed GUS cassette. In the absence of effectors, ABA exposure (30 μm) of the mesophyll protoplasts resulted in an approximately 20-fold increase of reporter activity (Figure 2b). This increase was not affected by transfection of the empty effector cassette (10 μg DNA, data not shown). However, effector cassettes that provide expression of either ABI1 or abi1 led to a clear and dose-dependent inhibition of the ABA response (Figure 2b). The response to ABA was essentially eradicated by transfection with 10 μg of the abi1-expressing plasmid, resulting in a residual activity of 3% above control levels. Expression of ABI1 was less effective in downregulating ABA-mediated reporter expression. A twofold inhibition of the response required about 200 ng of the ABI1 effector construct, and approximately threefold lower quantities of the corresponding abi1 plasmid. These differences in effectiveness were consistently observed in the analyses (n > 5) carried out independently and with different plasmid preparations, and hence reflect a functional consequence of the single nucleotide exchange within the PP2C gene. Functional inactivation of the NLS completely abolished the negative regulation exerted by abi1 (abi1mtNLS; Figure 2b) and ABI1 (not shown) on ABA signalling. A complete loss of PP2C action was also observed by expression of a phosphatase non-active form of ABI1 (ABINAP; Figure 2b). We conclude that the nuclear localization of the PP2C seems to be required to negatively regulate ABA signalling in protoplasts. Alternatively, protein stability of the NLS-mutated PP2Cs is severely compromised. [[FIGURE]] We then sought to establish whether the NLS-mutated PP2Cs protein was unstable. Unfortunately, polyclonal antibodies that were raised against ABI1 crossreacted with the homologous ABI2 (CITATION), and might even have recognized other related PP2Cs (CITATION). Therefore, we decided to tag the different PP2Cs with GUS (Figure 3a), and determine whether the stability of the fusion proteins was affected by the carboxyl-terminal modifications. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were transfected with the corresponding effector plasmids. Subsequently, GUS activity was determined and normalized to the expression of a transfected p35S-driven LUC control gene. There was no major difference in reporter activity, irrespective of the fused PP2C version (Figure 3b). The fusion proteins were still functional to block ABA signalling, albeit with a reduced efficacy compared with the non-fused forms (Figure 3c). Again, the ABI1 fusion was less inhibitory than the abi1 version. Taken together, PP2C stability was not detectably affected by the NLS modification. Similarly to the results obtained with GUS fusions, ABI1-GFP and abi1-GFP effectors inhibited ABA-dependent reporter expression (Figure 4a). The reporter fusion impaired the efficiency of the effectors to act on ABA signalling to some extent. Deletion of the NLS abrogated the action of abi1 on ABA signalling, whereas substitution of the endogenous NLS with the NLS of simian virus 40 large T antigen rescued the response (Figure 4b). Furthermore, regulation of the ABA response by ectopic expression of abi1-GFP was similar, irrespective of expressing the effector under the control of the p35S promoter or pABI1 promoter (Figure 4b). We conclude from these experiments that the NLS modification does not impact protein stability and that the tagged ABI1 and abi1 versions are still functional, albeit at a reduced level. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Tagging the PP2C with GUS or GFP reduced its ability to inhibit ABA signalling. The ABI1 fusions still blocked the ABA-mediated response in protoplasts, although less so than the abi1 versions, whereas deletion or mutation of the NLS abolished the inhibitory action. To evaluate the contribution of the ABI1 NLS domain on other ABA responses in plants, transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated expressing either GUS or GFP fused to ABI1, abi1, ABI1dNLS and abi1dNLS. Transgenic plants expressing GUS fusions were recovered, and seeds of homozygous lines were analysed with respect to ABA-mediated inhibition of germination, by scoring radicle emergence after 4 days of incubation in the presence of exogenous ABA. The expression of GUS-abi1 resulted in a strong change in ABA sensitivity of the seed material. Control seeds transformed with the empty GUS cassette were fully inhibited from germinating in the presence of 1 μm ABA (Figure 5a). In contrast, GUS-abi1 seeds revealed a germination efficiency that was greater than 90%, even in the presence of 10 μm ABA, which is consistent with an inhibitory action of the effector protein on the ABA response. The marked ABA insensitivity mediated by abi1 was entirely lost, however, in seeds expressing the NLS-deficient version. The germination rate was indistinguishable from that of control seeds. Expression of both ABI1-GUS and the fusion protein with deleted NLS had no significant effect on ABA-dependent seed germination. [[FIGURE]] The requirement for a functional NLS domain for conferring ABA insensitivity by abi1-GUS was corroborated by analysis of ABA-mediated inhibition of root expansion (Figure 5b). In the presence of high levels of ABA (100 μm), root elongation of abi1-GUS expressing seedlings was reduced by approximately 35% compared with non-exposed seedlings. At the same ABA level, the transgenic line expressing the NLS-deleted abi1 was inhibited by >80%, and was comparable with the GUS control and the ABI1-GUS line. ABA insensitivity of stomatal responses leads to a wilting phenotype characterized by increased water loss of detached leaves (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To analyse stomatal responses, water loss was determined from leaves of comparable size and age that were obtained from the different transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Expression of ABI1 and its carboxyl-terminally truncated version did not affect stomatal closure. Leaves expressing abi1-GUS revealed a twofold enhanced water loss relative to the leaves of the control line or the line expressing the NLS-deficient abi1 (Figure 5c). The increased water loss of the abi1 line resulted in a clearly visible wilting phenotype (data not shown). Arabidopsis lines expressing the corresponding PP2C-GFP fusions yielded similar results. ABA-insensitive germination was observed in seed material expressing abi1-GFP under the control of either the p35S or the pABI1 promoter (Figure 5d), whereas expression of abi1dNLS-GFP had no effect on ABA responsiveness during germination (Figure 6a). [[FIGURE]] The phenotypes of the transgenic lines are consistent with the previous analysis in protoplasts, which revealed a requirement for a functional NLS domain in the PP2C to mediate insensitivity towards ABA responses. In variance to the analysis in protoplasts, expression of ABI1-GFP or ABI1-GUS proteins did not significantly alter the ABA response of Arabidopsis plantlets. The necessity for nuclear localization of the PP2C to mediate the inhibitory effect prompted us to analyse in more detail the intracellular localization of the fusion proteins in the transgenic lines. The cytological analysis of guard and root cells revealed a predominance of abi1-GFP in the nucleus compared with the non-fused GFP control, which was similar to the previous analyses in protoplasts (Figure 6b,c). In contrast, the fluorescent signal of the non-fused GFP marker was clearly shifted to the cytosolic compartment, and the shift was even more pronounced with ABI1-GFP. The PP2C-tagged proteins were detected throughout the seedling, similar to GFP expression under control of the p35S promoter, by confocal laser scanning microscopy. There was a single difference in the root tip. The PP2C-GFP signal was clearly detected in the lateral root cap and columella cells, whereas the meristematic zone of the root tip yielded a much lower signal (Figure 7). The GFP control under the same promoter showed an even expression pattern in both the cap and meristematic zone of the root. Close-ups of the samples revealed a subcellular distribution of ABI1-GFP, consistent with a nuclear and cytosolic compartmentation (Figure 7c). The abi1-GFP preferentially accumulated in the nucleus (Figure 7f), whereas abi1 with deleted NLS yielded an intracellular distribution resembling ABI1 (Figure 7i). An intracellular relocation of ABI-GFP and abi1-GFP was not observed in response to ABA (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The analyses indicate an intracellular distribution of tagged ABI1 that is different from abi1, in that the mutant protein was primarily detected in the nucleus. Comparison of the fluorescent signal obtained with the PP2C-GFP fusion and the GFP control indicate an efficient degradation or export of the fusion proteins from the meristematic zone (Figure 7c,i,l). To address whether a proteosomal pathway operates in the turnover of the PP2C, the proteosomal inhibitor MG132 was administered to Arabidopsis seedlings. Inhibitor application did not stabilize the GFP signal of the fusion proteins in the meristem. It did, however, affect the nuclear compartmentation of ABI1 (Figure 8a). ABI1-GFP now localized preferentially to the nucleus, and the subcellular distribution pattern resembled more that of abi1-GFP, whereas the proteosomal inhibitor had little effect on the subcellular localization of abi1. We examined the effect of MG132 on both ABI1-controlled reporter expression and PP2C stability in transient expression analyses. Arabidopsis protoplasts transfected with effector constructs revealed a marked stimulation of ABI1 and abi1 inhibitory action on ABA signalling in the presence of the proteosomal inhibitor (Figure 8b). The 11.3-fold induction of reporter expression by ABA was little affected by the proteosomal inhibitor (9.8-fold increase). In the presence of MG132, protoplasts expressing ABI1-GFP showed an approximately twofold enhanced reduction of ABA-responsive reporter expression, resulting in expression levels of between one- and twofold of the non-induced control. Western blot analysis revealed no significant change in the protein abundance of differently tagged PP2C proteins (Figure 8c). [[FIGURE]] ABA signalling re-addresses gene expression, and ABA-induced transcripts are deregulated in the abi1-1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION). We wanted to know whether the NLS function of abi1 affects ABA-induced gene transcription. Therefore, we isolated RNA from seedlings expressing abi1 and abi1dNLS fused to either GUS or GFP, in addition to seedlings of the wild type and the abi1-1 mutant. Genes such as the dehydrin RAB18 (At5g66400), the desiccation-responsive gene RD29B (At5g52300) and the homeobox-leucine zipper protein AtHB12 (At3g61890) failed to respond towards ABA in abi1-1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and were selected for analysis. Transcript abundance of these ABA-inducible genes was analysed in response to 3 μm ABA. An impaired ABA-mediated induction in the abi1-1 mutant, and also in the abi1 fusion protein expressing plants, could be observed by semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis (Figure 9a). Real-time RT-PCR analysis of ABA-induced RAB18 transcripts confirmed the finding (Figure 9b). Inhibition of ABA-dependent gene induction was less effective in the abi1 fusion expressing lines compared with abi1 expressing plants, similar to the previous transient and stable expression analyses. No significant differences in ABA-dependent gene regulation were observed between the abi1dNLS-GUS expressing seedlings and the wild type. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants of Arabidopsis thaliana Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were grown in pots on a perlite/soil mixture at 23°C under long-day conditions with 16-h light (250 μE m−2 sec−1). These plants were used for stable transformation, protoplast preparation and DNA extraction. For microscopy, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on agar plates as previously described (CITATION). For RNA extraction, transgenic seeds of accession RLD and abi1-1 seeds (accession Landsberg) were grown on agarose plates containing 50% MS salt base (pH 5.7) and 0.5% sucrose. Plates were kept for 2 days at 4°C and thereafter were maintained at 22°C under continuous illumination (60 μE m−2 sec−1). All chemicals used were of analytic grade or of highest purity, and were purchased from Fluka (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/Brands/Fluka), Sigma-Aldrich (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) and Merck (http://www.merck.de). ABA (Sigma-Aldrich) was dissolved in 10 mm 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid (MES, pH 7.0) to yield a 5 mm stock solution. The pRAB18::LUC reporter plasmid was constructed by cloning the LUC gene from pGEM-Luc (Promega, http://www.promega.com) into the BamHI-EcoRI site of pSK (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/). The pRAB18 promoter (from −524 to +67 bp) was PCR amplified from Arabidopsis (Col-0) genomic DNA using the primers 5′-TCCCCGCGGATCTAAACGCGGCGTTTGG-3′ and 5′-CGCGGATCCACTTTGAGCTAAGCTAG-3′. These primers introduced single BamHI and SacII sites into the promoter fragment, which was fused to the LUC gene by using the SacII and BamHI sites of pSK. Construction of pRDB29::LUC has been described previously (CITATION). The effector plasmids used for transient expression in protoplasts are all derivatives of the pBI221 vector (CITATION). The plasmids pBI221-p35S::ABI1 and pBI221-p35S::abi1 are created by replacing the glucuronidase gene of pBI221 by a BamHI-Eco147I fragment of ABI1 and abi1, respectively. The p35S::ABI1NAP (ABI1D177A) construct corresponds to the non-active protein phosphatase sequence previously described (CITATION). To create the p35S::GFP fusion cassettes of ABI1, abi1, abi1mtNLS, abi1dNLS and abi1dNLS-SV40NLS, the GUS gene of pBI221 was replaced by a BamHI-SacI fragment of the smRS-GFP gene (CITATION). The STOP codon of GFP was removed via PCR using the primer 5′-CGAGCTGCAGTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGC-3′, thereby generating an XhoI site at the 3′ end of GFP. The ABI1 and abi1 sequences were both amplified with the primers 5′-AATTCCTCGAGGGAAGTATCTCCGGC-3′ (forward) and 5′-GTACTCGAGTCAGTTCAAGGGTTT-3′ (reverse). The reverse primers used for the amplification of abi1mtNLS, abi1dNLS and abi1dNLS-SV40 were 5′-CCCCTCGAGTCAGTTCAAGGGTTTGCTCTGCAGATTATTCTGAGGCTTC-3′ (abi1mtNLS), 5′-GTACTCGAGCTCTCACACACTTATGTTGTCTTTGC-3′ (abi1dNLS) and 5′-TTGCTCGAGTCAATTTACCTTTCTCTTCTTTTTTGGAGGAGTCACACTTATGTTGTCTTTGC-3′ (abi1dNLS-SV40NLS). All ABI1 and abi1 PCR products were inserted into the XhoI site at the 3′ end of smRS-GFP. The pABI1::GFP-abi1 effector construct was generated by replacing the p35S promoter of the previously described pBI221p35S::GFP-abi1 plasmid with the pABI1 promoter (from −1999 to +456 bp) amplified from genomic Arabidopsis DNA with SphI- and NheI-overhang primers 5′-TTTGGCGCGCCGCATGCTTGAATATATACAAGATTT-3′ and 5′-CCTAGCTAGCTAACGGTAAAGATTTGATC-3′. To generate the p35S::GUS fusion constructs in pBI221, the STOP codon of the GUS gene was removed via PCR with the reverse primer 5′-ACTGCTCGAGCATTGTTTGCCTCCCTG-3′, thereby creating an XhoI site at the 3′ end of GUS. This XhoI site was used to fuse the ABI1, abi1, ABI1dNLS and abi1dNLS PCR products generated with the aforementioned XhoI-overhang primers to the GUS gene in pBI221. Total RNA was extracted from 4-week-old leaves using the AurumTM Total RNA Mini Kit (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com). A 600-ng sample of total RNA was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis via oligo dT primer following the supplier’s instructions (First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit, Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com). The primer pairs used were as follows: 5′-GCGTCTTACCAGAACCGT-3′ and 5′-GAAGCATTCCTCCCAAGC-3′, 5′-CCCTGTAAAAGATGAAACTCCGAG-3′ and 5′-CCCAATCTCTTTTTCACACAAAG-3′, 5′-CAGCGAGATTAGTAGTGGCA-3′ and 5′-GTAATTGCTGCTAGATTGGTC-3′, 5′-CAATACATGATTAGCCCGAG-3′ and 5′-ACTGTTTGGAGTGATGACTCC-3′. Amplification of the ACT1 transcript (At2g37620) as an internal standard was performed with the primers 5′-TGGGATGACATGGAGAAGAT-3′ and 5′-ATACCAATCATAGATGGCTGG-3′. To determine the RAB18 transcript quantities by real-time RT-PCR, the aforementioned gene-specific primers were used. Actin primers were designed as follows: 5′-TGGAACTGGAATGGTTAAGGCTGG-3′ and 5′-TCTCCAGAGTCGAGCACAATACCG-3′. The experiment was performed on the LightCycler instrument with the FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I kit (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, http://www.roche.com). RNA from two independent ABA-induction experiments was analysed. Plasmids containing the RAB18 and ACT1 cDNA, respectively, were used as quantification standards (CITATION). Isolation of protoplasts from rosette leaves of 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants and polyethyleneglycol mediated protoplast transfection were performed as described previously (CITATION). For transfection experiments, approximately 5 × 104 protoplasts (0.1 ml) were transfected with 15 μg DNA of the reporter plasmid (pRAB18::LUC or pRD29B::LUC, respectively) and 0.1–10 μg DNA of the effector plasmid. In addition, 5 μg of p35S::GUS plasmid was included in each transfection as a control. The analysis of ABI1- and abi1-regulated reporter expression in protoplasts was performed as previously described (CITATION). For transient expression of GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis protoplasts, 10 μg of the pBI221 p35S::GFP fusion plasmids mentioned above were introduced into protoplasts, and GFP localization was monitored 14–18 h after transfection. To generate Arabidopsis plants overexpressing GFP fusions to ABI1, abi1 and abi1dNLS, the p35S::GUS cassette of binary vector pBI121 (CITATION) was exchanged by the respective pBI221 GFP fusion cassettes mentioned above. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants, ecotype RLD, using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101pMP90 (for GFP fusions) and C58pGV3850 (for GUS fusions) was carried out as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Analyses of germination, root growth and stomatal closure in Arabidopsis plants overexpressing either p35S::GUS fusions or p35S::GFP fusions were carried out as previously described (CITATION). For GFP analysis in transgenic plants, 6-day-old seedlings were examined using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Fluoview FV1000; Olympus, http://www.olympus-global.com). For inhibitor studies on whole Arabidopsis plants, transgenic seedlings were vacuum infiltrated for 5 min with either 50 μm MG132 or the corresponding inhibitor solvent (2% dimethyl sulfoxide), and were left in culture for 4 h before analysis by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CITATION). The intensity of GFP fluorescence in guard and root cell nuclei was quantified using confocal microscope pictures and Simple PCI 5.2 software (Compix, http://www.cimaging.net). Western blot analyses of transiently expressed proteins were performed as previously described (CITATION) by using anti-GFP and anti-c-myc antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, http://www.scbt.com). Protoplasts were exposed for 4 h to either 50 μm MG132 or 2% DMSO. Data were analysed using the Mann–Whitney U-test and WinSTAT® software (R. Fitch Software, http://www.winstat.de). All experiments were repeated at least twice and yielded similar results.
