!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) sucrose transporter AtSUC1 (At1g71880) is highly expressed in pollen; however, its function has remained unknown. Here, we show that suc1 mutant pollen is defective in vivo, as evidenced by segregation distortion, and also has low rates of germination in vitro. AtSUC1-green fluorescent protein was localized to the plasma membrane in pollen tubes. AtSUC1 is also expressed in roots and external application of sucrose increased AtSUC1 expression in roots. AtSUC1 is important for sucrose-dependent signaling leading to anthocyanin accumulation in seedlings. suc1 mutants accumulated less anthocyanins in response to exogenous sucrose or maltose and microarray analysis revealed reduced expression of many genes important for anthocyanin biosynthesis. The results indicate that AtSUC1 is important for sugar signaling in vegetative tissue and for normal male gametophyte function.
!~RES~! Two insertional mutant alleles, suc1-1 (SM_3_19971) and suc1-2 (SM_3_20664), were used in this study. Homozygous lines were identified using PCR on genomic DNA (see “Materials and Methods”). Figure 1A shows a diagram of the AtSUC1 gene containing three exons with the suc1-1 insertion in the first exon and the suc1-2 insertion in the second exon. Growth of homozygous suc1 mutant plants was not different from wild type. suc1 seedlings did not differ from wild type in primary root length: suc1-1 seedlings had a root length of 49.4 ± 1.4 mm (n = 53), suc1-2 had an average root length of 43.8 ± 1.1 mm (n = 54), and the root length for Columbia (Col-0) was 46.6 ± 1.6 mm (n = 44) after 11 d of growth on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. No differences in fertility were observed for suc1 mutants compared to wild type; this is of interest considering that AtSUC1 is expressed in pollen (CITATION). Both the number of seeds per silique and silique length were not statistically different in Col-0 and suc1-2: Col-0 had 49.7 ± 8.9 seeds/silique (n = 23) and siliques were 12.2 ± 1.4 mm long (n = 24), whereas suc1-2 had 44.8 ± 8.6 seeds/silique (n = 20) and siliques were 11.8 ± 1.0 mm long (n = 19). AtSUC1 is also expressed in young trichomes (CITATION), suggesting a role in trichome development. However, the suc1 mutants displayed no obvious defects in trichome development, perhaps due to redundant expression of other Suc transporters in trichomes. [[FIGURE]] Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR indicated that wild-type (Col-0) seedlings grown in liquid MS supplemented with 3% Suc produced more AtSUC1 mRNA than those grown on MS alone (Fig. 1B). Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed this finding; AtSUC1 expression levels were 1.64 ± 0.20-fold higher in Suc-grown plants than in those grown without Suc (Fig. 1C). Suc-induced expression of AtSUC1 was also found in transgenic plants expressing pSUC1∷SUC1∷GUS fusions (this construct includes 2 kb upstream of the ATG, all introns and exons, and a translational fusion to GUS; CITATION). Figure 2 shows an increase in GUS enzyme activity in plants grown either for 3 d (Fig. 2B) or 24 h (Fig. 2, C, E, and H) in medium containing Suc compared to plants grown in medium lacking Suc (Fig. 2, A, D, and G). Plants transformed with an AtSUC1 promoter-GUS construct do not have detectable GUS activity in roots (CITATION) and Suc application did not induce GUS expression in roots in AtSUC1 promoter-GUS lines (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] AtSUC1 expression in root tissue was analyzed at the cellular level using vibratome sections of GUS-stained transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing pSUC1∷SUC1∷GUS. CITATION previously showed that AtSUC1 is expressed in the root vasculature in the elongation zone of the root and sites of lateral root formation (Fig. 2, F and I). Root cross sections show that AtSUC1 expression is not limited to cells within the vascular cylinder (Fig. 2D): AtSUC1 is expressed in the pericycle and endodermis as well. Treatment with Suc, such as in Figure 2C, resulted in extension of AtSUC1 expression to the cortex and epidermis (Fig. 2E). AtSUC1 is highly expressed in pollen (CITATION; Fig. 2J). Figure 3 shows confocal images of pSUC1∷SUC1∷GFP-expressing pollen tubes where AtSUC1 was localized in the plasma membrane (Fig. 3, A–E). Fluorescence was also observed in unidentified internal structures (Fig. 3, A and B) associated with callous plugs (Fig. 3E), and cytoplasmic fluorescence was more pronounced at the tip (Fig. 3D) probably associated with plasma membrane biosynthesis and membrane trafficking. [[FIGURE]] When suc1-2 plants were backcrossed to wild type, the F2 population did not show normal Mendelian segregation. Only 4% of the F2 plants were homozygous for suc1-2 instead of the expected 25% (n = 28). To determine whether this was caused by embryo lethality or a gametophyte defect, reciprocal crosses of suc1-2 heterozygous (het) plants to Col-0 wild type were made. When the pollen for the cross was from the suc1-2 het, only 6% of the progeny were het for the suc1-2 allele instead of the expected 50% of the progeny (n = 284; Table I ), indicating that transmission of the mutation through the male gametophyte was reduced. Whereas when the female parent was the suc1-2 het, 50% of the plants in the F1 generation were het for the mutation (n = 147). The pollen defect could be rescued by expressing AtSUC1 under its own promoter in the suc1-2 mutant background. suc1-2 homozygous mutants carrying one copy of the AtSUC1 transgene (het for the transgene) do not show normal Mendelian segregation of the transgene. Mutants carrying one copy of AtSUC1 transgenically should have a higher rate of transgene transmission through the male gametophyte because the pollen carrying the transgene (one-half of all pollen grains) should show greater rates of transmission than the mutant pollen without the complementing transgene. As expected, significantly more than 75% of the progeny of three independent lines of suc1-2 mutants het for a transgenic AtSUC1 construct carried the transgene (Table II ). One line (C) did not show complementation probably due to an incomplete transgene insertion or positional effects and was not investigated further. Reciprocal crosses demonstrate that suc1-2 mutants segregate aberrantly Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of plants with an insertion/total progeny counted. P value is calculated from a two-tailed t test. Complementation of suc1-2 mutants with the wild-type SUC1 gene or SUC1-GFP fusion Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of plants resistant to hygromycin/total progeny counted. P value is calculated from a two-tailed t test. Four independent T2 transgenic lines were selfed and the percent of the progeny that were hygromycin resistant were counted (transgene marker). Because AtSUC1 is highly expressed during pollen maturation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the effect of the suc1 mutation on pollen germination was analyzed. In vitro, only 7.9% of suc1-2 pollen and 13.1% of suc1-1 pollen germinated, whereas 39.0% of wild-type pollen germinated (Fig. 4 ). This was not due to low viability of the mutant pollen; there was no difference in the viability of suc1-2 pollen compared to wild type based on Alexander's viability stain (data not shown). To test for complementation, suc1-2 mutant lines homozygous for either pSUC1∷SUC1 or pSUC1∷SUC1∷GFP were generated. Both constructs were able to complement the mutant phenotype as indicated by pollen germination rates that were similar to wild type (Fig. 4A). Replacing Suc in the germination medium with equimolar Glc did not improve the germination rate of suc1-2 pollen; however, there was a reduction in wild-type pollen germination rates (from 39% to 24%; Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] The lack of rescue of the pollen germination phenotype with Glc indicated that potentially pollen development was affected because Suc transporters do not transport Glc. To attempt to characterize an effect of AtSUC1 mutation on pollen development, we looked for ultrastructural defects in mutant pollen by transmission electron microscopy. The pollen coat is important for proper pollen grain adhesion and hydration (CITATION), but appeared identical in both the suc1 mutant and the wild type (data not shown). No differences between mutant and wild-type pollen were observed. Fatty acid accumulation occurs during pollen development and oil bodies supply energy required for germination and pollen tube growth. To assess the stored energy status of the pollen, the fatty acid content of pollen grains was examined. Fatty acids were extracted from both wild type and the suc1-2 mutant pollen grains and analyzed by gas chromatography (Table III ). There was no difference in the types of fatty acids present (Table III; % total fatty acid). Total fatty acids in mutant pollen were not significantly different compared to wild type (Col-0 had 2.74 ± 0.14 μg fatty acid/μg protein, whereas suc1-2 had 2.25 ± 0.23 μg fatty acid/μg protein). Fatty acid content of Col-0 and suc1-2 pollen CITATION reported that Arabidopsis accumulates anthocyanins in response to Suc. The authors noted that the effect was Suc specific (although, to a lesser extent, it was also observed with maltose) and not observed in response to Glc, Fru, or sorbitol. Figure 5 , A to C, shows plants grown with 3% Suc. Wild-type and het plants accumulated visible anthocyanins in cotyledons and at the apex of the hypocotyl, whereas suc1-2 mutants (Fig. 5B) did not, indicating that the phenotype is recessive. All plants looked similar when grown on medium lacking Suc (Fig. 5, insets). suc1-2 plants accumulated anthocyanins in response to high light (data not shown), indicating that suc1-2 plants are not impaired in anthocyanin biosynthesis in response to an alternative stimulus. [[FIGURE]] Figure 6 shows quantification of accumulated anthocyanins. When suc1-2 seedlings were grown continuously on 3% Suc or 3% maltose, they did not accumulate as many anthocyanins as wild-type seedlings (Fig. 6A). However, when Suc concentration was raised to 5%, there was no difference in anthocyanin accumulation between wild type and suc1-2 mutants (Fig. 6A). Nevertheless, mutants and wild type showed differences in anthocyanin accumulation at 5% Suc if the plants were assayed after being grown first on MS medium without Suc, and then incubated with 5% Suc for 24 h (Fig. 6A). suc1-1 also showed reduced anthocyanin accumulation when grown continuously on 3% Suc (Fig. 6B). And, as expected, two independent lines of suc1-2 plants expressing an AtSUC1 transgene showed wild type-like Suc-induced anthocyanin accumulation (Fig. 6B). Assaying radioactive Suc uptake into whole seedlings grown for 3 d in liquid MS showed that suc1-2 mutants did not accumulate less Suc than wild type. After 15-min incubation in 0.044 mm 14C-labeled Suc, wild type accumulated 6.3 ± 0.4 pmol/seedling (n = 4), whereas suc1-2 accumulated 7.5 ± 0.9 pmol/seedling (n = 4). [[FIGURE]] Expression of many genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis is increased by exogenous Suc (CITATION). To determine whether AtSUC1 is necessary for this process, we performed microarray analysis on suc1-2 and wild-type plants that were grown in liquid 0.5× MS medium for 3 d and then 24 h in liquid 0.5× MS medium supplemented with 3% Suc. Labeled RNA was hybridized to Affymetrix GeneChip ATH1 microarrays for each of the two genotypes (each with two biological replicates) to find up- and down-regulated genes. Table IV shows normalized signal from individual hybridizations for the suc1-2 mutant and Col-0 treated with 3% Suc for 24 h and data from CITATION for Arabidopsis wild-type seedlings treated similarly (without or with 3% Suc applied for 6 h). Genes in Table IV were identified by CITATION as regulated by Suc and involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. The data are sorted by fold signal difference between suc1-2 and Col-0. Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase is a downstream enzyme in the anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway that is regulated by the PAP1 complex (for review, see CITATION). TT3 (At5g42800) is a Suc-induced dihydroflavonol reductase (CITATION) and is expressed at a 3.6-fold higher level in Col-0 versus suc1-2. Many other genes show a similar pattern: TT6 (At3g51240), flavonol 3-O-glucosyltransferase (At5g54060), cinnamate-4-hydroxylase (At2g30490), flavonol synthase (At5g08640), chalcone isomerase (At3g55120), and TT4 chalcone synthase (At5g13930) are all strongly induced by Suc (CITATION) and show lower expression in suc1-2 as compared to Col-0. At1g53520, encoding a putative chalcone isomerase, was the only anthocyanin biosynthetic gene found to be expressed at a higher level in the mutant than wild type. On a whole-genome level, a contingency table and Fisher exact test (P value < 2.2 e-16) showed that genes up-regulated by Suc have higher expression in Col-0 compared to suc1-2. Likewise, genes down-regulated by Suc showed lower expression in Col-0 compared to suc1-2 (P value < 2.2 e-16). In summary, microarray analysis revealed that suc1 mutants have reduced response to exogenous Suc. Effect of suc1-2 mutation on expression of Suc-responsive genesa in the anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway Seedlings were grown in liquid culture without Suc and then moved to medium without Suc (MS) for 6 h, or to medium containing 3% Suc for 6 h (Suc) or 24 h (suc1-2 and Col-0). Normalized signal values are normalized with the MAS 5.0 algorithm and scaled to 100. Each column of signal values represents an independent biological replicate.
!~MM~! Plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h of light) at 23°C unless otherwise noted. For analysis of root growth, plants were grown vertically on 0.5× MS plates supplemented with 2% Suc. Results for root length, silique length, and seeds per silique are presented as mean ± se. In vitro pollen germination was determined using liquid medium (5 mm MES-Tris, pH 5.8, 1 mm KCl, 0.8 mm MgSO4, 1.5 mm boric acid, 10 mm CaCl2, 15% [w/v] polyethylene glycol 3350, 5% [w/v] Suc) modified after CITATION. For some assays, Suc was replaced with an equimolar amount of Glc (2.5% [w/v]). Anthers were removed from one or two stage 14 flowers. The anthers were briefly agitated in a 30-μL drop of germination medium on a glass slide. The slide was placed in a humidor for 22 h and then a coverslip was applied and the number of germinated pollen grains was counted. For each replicate, at least 200 pollen grains were scored. Insertional mutants were ordered from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. SM_3_20664 (suc1-2) and SM_3_19971 (suc1-1; CITATION) were screened for homozygous mutants using PCR. The following primers were used: SUC1cdsF2 (5′-agcgttgaagctattctatgggagcctatgaaacagaaa), SUC1_3′-untranslated region (5′-tcgcctaaaccgttctaaactacataaa), and Spm32 (5′-tacgaataagagcgtccattttagagtga). Anthocyanins were extracted as described by CITATION, with minor modifications. In brief, plants were grown in liquid culture (0.5× MS supplemented with indicated sugar) for 3 d, and then extracted in 250 μL of 1% HCl in ethanol (v/v). Then 250 μL of water was added. A sample was taken for spectrophotometer readings at 645 and 663 nm. The remaining extract was cleaned with 200 μL of chloroform and another sample was taken for spectrophotometer readings at 535 nm. Anthocyanin content is presented on a fresh-weight basis. Transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants with AtSUC1 whole-gene clones are described by CITATION. PCR was used to generate a whole-gene AtSUC1 fragment. The primers SUC1F (5′-cagttaagttttcggttcacaaccaatatg) and SUC1R (5′-gtggaatcctcccatggtcgttgcc) were used with the vector pCR2.1 containing the AtSUC1 whole gene (CITATION) as the template. The PCR product was TA cloned into pCR8 (Invitrogen). This plasmid was then recombined with either pMDC99 or pMDC107 (CITATION) using LR recombinase (Invitrogen). Plant transformations were done as by CITATION. Transformed plants were selected on 30 mg L−1 hygromycin. RNA was extracted from 5-d-old seedlings of Col-0 and suc1 mutants using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). RT-PCR was performed on 100 μg of RNA using the Qiagen One-Step RT-PCR kit. RT-PCR was performed with 30 cycles each with 1-min, 30-s extension time, and an annealing temperature of 50°C. The following primers were used: SUC1F3 (5′-ctccggtgcaggccaaggactttca), SUC1R1 (5′-aaaggagtactgaaagtaatagctaatggg), and SUC1R3 (5′-ctagtggaatcctcccatggtc). RNA was extracted using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen) from 5-d-old liquid-grown seedlings. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg of total RNA with Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen), and quantification on a LightCycler instrument (Roche Diagnostics) with Platinum SYBR Green. Quantitative PCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. The quantitative RT-PCR program was as follows: 2 min at 50°C, 2 min at 95°C, followed by 40 cycles of denaturation for 15 s at 95°C, and annealing/extension for 30 s at 60°C. Expression levels were normalized to Actin-11 expression levels. Quantitative RT-PCR experiments were performed on two independent biological samples and on three technical replicates. The following primers were used: Actin-11F and R (5′-tcgttggtcgtcctcgac and 5′-gggttgagaggagcctca), and SUC1F1 and R1 (5′-agagacacagtcgccgga and 5′-aaaggagtactgaaagtaatagctaatggg). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were vacuum infiltrated with GUS staining solution (1 mm X-GlucA in 50 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.2, containing 0.5% Triton X-100). Plants were incubated overnight at 37°C and cleared in 70% ethanol. Ten seedlings grown for 3 d in liquid 0.5× MS were incubated for 15 min in 0.044 mm 14C Suc, and then washed and incubated for 30 min in 2% SDS. Utlima Gold scintillation cocktail (Packard Biosciences) was added and samples were counted. Pollen was collected by vacuuming open flowers daily and stored at −80°C until extraction. Vacuum collection involved filtering through a 35-μm nylon mesh and collection on a 6-μm nylon filter. The filter and pollen were placed directly into 500 μL of 1 n methanolic HCl containing 25 μg of heptadecanoic acid (17:0) as an internal standard. Samples were heated to 80°C for 1 h and then nylon filters were removed. Equal volumes of 0.9% (w/v) NaCl and hexane were added. The hexane layer was collected and fatty acid methyl esters were analyzed and quantified by gas chromatography. Total protein analysis was done on the aqueous fraction after hexane extraction. For microarray analysis, seeds stratified for 3 d at 4°C were grown in liquid 0.5× MS for 3 d, then in liquid 0.5× MS medium supplemented with 3% Suc for 24 h. RNA was extracted using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). Biotin labeling of the RNA, hybridization to the Affymetrix GeneChip Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array, and scanning of the chip were all performed at the University of Minnesota BioMedical Genomics Center Microarray Facility. Data were normalized using the MAS 5.0 algorithm and scaled to 100. Present or absent calls were also made with MAS 5.0. Significant genes, q values, and fold change were generated using S-adenosyl-Met.
