!~ABS~! The small heat shock proteins (sHsps), which are ubiquitous stress proteins proposed to act as chaperones, are encoded by an unusually complex gene family in plants. Plant sHsps are classified into different subfamilies according to amino acid sequence similarity and localization to distinct subcellular compartments. In the whole Arabidopsis thaliana genome, 19 genes were annotated to encode sHsps, of which 14 belong to previously defined plant sHsp families. In this paper, we report studies of the five additional sHsp genes in A. thaliana, which can now be shown to represent evolutionarily distinct sHsp subfamilies also found in other plant species. While two of these five sHsps show expression patterns typical of the other 14 genes, three have unusual tissue specific and developmental profiles and do not respond to heat induction. Analysis of intracellular targeting indicates that one sHsp represents a new class of mitochondrion-targeted sHsps, while the others are cytosolic/nuclear, some of which may cooperate with other sHsps in formation of heat stress granules. Three of the five new proteins were purified and tested for chaperone activity in vitro. Altogether, these studies complete our basic understanding of the sHsp chaperone family in plants.
!~RES~! Searching the genome database of A. thaliana by BLASTP and BLASTN with known plant sHsp sequences as queries revealed 19 ORFs coding for putative sHsp genes (Scharf et al. CITATION). This genomic search was complemented by EST database searches including those for other plant species (Table S3). Sequence comparison and parsimony analyses of amino acid residues in the conserved ACD regions revealed that the corresponding proteins are grouped into distinct clusters formed on separate branches in a phylogenetic tree (Fig. 1a). Based on this analysis and localization studies (see below), we defined five new subfamilies of sHsps (Fig. 1a, CIV, CV, CVI, CVII, MII) in addition to the previously known seven subfamilies CI, CII, CIII, ER, M, P, and Po (Scharf et al. CITATION; Ma et al. CITATION). In contrast to the CI, CII, and MI (former class M) subfamilies, which each consist of more than one member in A. thaliana, each of the newly defined subfamilies is represented by only one gene in A. thaliana, i.e., Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp15.4-CV, Hsp21.7-CVI, Hsp14.7-CVII, and Hsp26.5-MII. [[FIGURE]]  For all but Hsp14.7-CVII, homologous genes were identified in other plant species (Fig 1a; Fig. S1 and Table S3). It is interesting to note that genes homologous to Hsp18.5-CIV were exclusively found in dicotyledonous plants, while homologues of Hsp21.7-CVI were only found for monocotyledonous plants. Except for genes in the CIV family, represented by Hsp18.5-CIV in A. thaliana, the other four genes all contain one intron, either in the ACD domain (Hsp15.4-CV and Hsp21.7-CVI) or in the N-terminal arm (Hsp14.7.CVII and Hsp26.5-MII; Fig. 1b). Altogether, these sequence data define 12 families of sHsps in plants. sHsps have a typical β-sheet structure within the ACD composed if eight β-strands (β2−β9) as seen in the X-ray structures of MjHsp16.5 and TaHsp16.9C-CI (Kim et al. CITATION; van Montfort et al. CITATION) (Fig. 1b). Predicted secondary structures within the evolutionary-conserved ACD of the plant orthologous sHsps revealed that irrespective of the species, most of the sHsps contain all these typical β-strands (Fig. 1b). Significant exceptions were found for members of the CIV (Hsp18.5-CIV in A. thaliana) and CV (Hsp15.4-CV in A. thaliana) subfamilies, which lack amino acid residues involved in strand β6 (Figs. 1b, S1). Due to the function of β6 in strand exchange for dimer formation (Kim et al. CITATION; van Montfort et al. CITATION), these sHsps would be predicted to have a different overall quaternary structure. No reliable secondary structure predictions were possible for sequences outside of the ACD for any of these proteins. However, with exception of subfamily CVI, the C-terminal ends of all other sHsps contain conserved sequence motifs, which are specific for each subfamily (Fig. S1 and Scharf et al. CITATION, Fig. 1). To understand the potential functional complexity of these diverse new families of sHsps, gene expression analysis by RT-PCR and microarray profiling were used to determine what abiotic stresses and developmental conditions specifically affect their expression. A. thaliana cell suspension cultures or whole plants were heat stressed as shown in Fig. 2a, and messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of the indicated genes were analyzed in different tissues by semiquantitative RT-PCR (Fig. 2b). Comparable to the expression of Hsp17-CI and Hsp17-CII sHsps, accumulation of transcripts for most of the newly identified sHsp members was induced or strongly enhanced by hs treatment irrespective of the analyzed tissue. It is surprising to note that the expression pattern of three members showed remarkable differences. For Hsp 15.4-CV, high transcript levels were already detectable in leaves and flowers of nonstressed plants. However, under hs, the expression of Hsp15.4-CV was induced in roots and significantly enhanced in leaves but strongly repressed in flowers. Expression of Hsp21.7-CVI was constitutive and ubiquitously present in all tissues, and transcript levels were not altered during hs. The expression of Hsp14.7-CVII was also found to be constitutive, but abundant transcript levels were only detectable in cultured cells and flowers. [[FIGURE]]  Another interesting observation was the accumulation of nonspliced precursor transcripts under hs for some but not all intron-containing sHsp genes. Hsps 17.4-CIII, 15.4-CV, and 26.5-MII accumulated unspliced precursors, while Hsp21.7-CVI and Hsp14.7-CVII did not. To obtain a broader overview of the expression behavior of all of the sHsp genes, microarray data provided by the AtGenExpress consortium were analyzed for A. thaliana plants and cell suspension cultures subjected to various abiotic stress conditions. With exception of the newly identified sHsps Hsp15.4-CV, 21.7-CVI, and 14.7-CVII, all other sHsps respond to different stressors to various extents, but the strongest accumulation of transcripts was observed under hs conditions (Fig. 3a). However, regarding the abundance and dynamic changes of transcript levels during ongoing stress treatments, remarkable differences in the expression behavior of individual sHsp genes were obvious. This was even evident for individual members belonging to the same sHsp family when compared over the time coarse of the applied stress treatments. [[FIGURE]]  The AtGenExpress experimental series also includes information on the A. thaliana transcriptome of different organs and developmental stages. Previous studies revealed that sHsp family members are also expressed under control conditions at specific plant developmental stages and in defined tissues (Prändl et al. CITATION; Zarsky et al. CITATION; zur Nieden et al. CITATION; Wehmeyer et al. CITATION; Wehmeyer and Vierling CITATION; Lubaretz and zur Nieden CITATION). In contrast to the majority of CI and CII sHsps, which show enhanced expression levels in pollen and during late stages of seed maturation, expression of Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp26.5-MII, and Hsp15.7-Po were only detectable in seeds but not in pollen (Fig. 3b). it is interesting to note that none of the other newly identified or any other of the organellar sHsps shows a significant increase in transcript accumulation during these developmental stages. In agreement with our RT-PCR data, the expression pattern of most members of the newly defined cytoplasmic/nuclear families is much broader, and enhanced transcript levels of Hsps 18.5-CIV, 15.4-CV, and 21.7-CVI are visible in diverse nonstressed vegetative tissues, especially in rosette leaves. Also remarkable is the expression pattern of Hsp14.7-CVII, which is virtually restricted to late stages of shoot apex and early stages of flower development. After the classification of the newly identified A. thaliana sHsps 18.5-CIV, 15.4-CV, 21.7-CVI, 14.7-CVII, and 26.5-MII on the basis of their phylogenetic relationship, subcellular localization of these proteins was analyzed to verify this classification and to confirm the targeting predictions. Expression constructs encoding myc epitope-tagged fusion proteins were constructed, and the subcellular localization was studied in transiently transformed tobacco mesophyll protoplasts expressing the fusion proteins under the control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. The results shown in Fig. 4a illustrate that Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp15.4-CV, Hsp21.7-CVI, and Hsp14.7-CVII were distributed in the cytoplasmic/nuclear compartment. Both N- and C-terminal tagged versions were tested to minimize the possibility of mislocalization due to the position of the myc tag. However, in all cases, the intracellular distribution pattern was not altered by expression of the alternatively tagged variants (data not shown). As predicted, the C-terminally tagged Hsp26.5-MII was found exclusively in mitochondria, which is shown by its colocalization with a cotransformed GFP variant targeted to the mitochondria (Fig. 4b). For comparison, the intracellular distribution pattern of Hsp15.7-Po was similar, but its colocalization with endogenous catalase confirmed the expected targeting of this sHsp to peroxisomes (see also Ma et al. CITATION). In contrast to Hsp26.5-MII-Myc, the N-terminal-tagged version accumulated in the cytoplasm by forming large protein aggregates, which is probably due to the masking of the N-terminal mitochondrial TP (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  sHsps of the cytoplasmic/nuclear subfamilies CI, CII, and CIII have been shown to be recruited to HSCs under hs where they may fulfill protective functions toward denatured proteins (Nover et al. CITATION; Kirschner et al. CITATION; Siddique et al. CITATION). To analyze the localization of the newly identified sHsps under hs conditions and to determine if they are incorporated into endogenous tobacco HSCs, hs was applied to transformed protoplasts to induce the expression of endogenous sHsps. The formation of HSCs was followed by immunodetection of endogenous CI sHsps, which became clearly visible as a speckled pattern in the cytoplasm of heat-stressed protoplasts (see mock transformation in Fig. 5a). Changing of the nuclear–cytoplasmic distribution to the characteristic speckled pattern after hs and coimmunostaining with sHsp CI-specific antibodies indicated the recruitment of sHsps 18.5-CIV, 15.4-CV, and 14.7-CVII into HSCs (Fig. 5a). In contrast, the intracellular localization of Hsp21.7-CVI and of both organellar sHsps, Hsp26.5-MII and Hsp15.7-Po (Fig. 5b), was not altered by hs treatment. [[FIGURE]]  It is well known that sHsps can protect denatured proteins from irreversible aggregation by forming stable sHsp–substrate complexes (Lee et al. CITATION; Ehrnsperger et al. CITATION; Friedrich et al. CITATION). To test the possible chaperone activity of the newly identified sHsps, we prepared purified recombinant Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp21.7-CVI, and Hsp26.5-MII (Fig. S3; Craig CITATION). Unfortunately, Hsp15.4-CV and Hsp14.7-CVII proved to be insoluble and could not be purified in sufficient quantity for analysis. We also purified recombinant Hsp15.7-Po, as this peroxisomal-localized protein had not previously been tested for chaperone activity. All four of these purified proteins were tested for their ability to protect firefly luciferase from heat insolubilization and to support luciferase refolding in reticulocyte lysate in comparison to purified Hsp17.6-CI. The plant CI sHsps are well characterized for their chaperone activity (Lee et al. CITATION; Lee and Vierling CITATION; Basha et al. CITATION). As shown in Fig. 6a (sample C), the activity of nonheated luciferase remained constant during the assay. After denaturation by heating at 42°C for 8.5 min in the absence of any sHsp (sample H), the relative luciferase activity was reduced to less than 10%, and there was no measurable activity increase by subsequent incubation at room temperature. In contrast, by addition of increasing amounts of recombinant Hsp17.6C-CI, a concentration-dependent increase in recovery of luciferase activity was observed. These observations are consistent with the model that sHsps can stabilize luciferase during heat treatment by keeping the enzyme in a soluble state and thereby competent for refolding by ATP-dependent chaperones provided by the rabbit reticulocyte lysate (see also Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]]  Although different amounts of the individual sHsps were required to facilitate the same amount of luciferase refolding, comparable results were obtained with purified recombinant Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp26.5-MIIΔTP, and Hsp15.7-Po (Fig. 6b,d,e). In contrast, Hsp21.7-CV did not show any protection capacity, although even higher amounts of the sHsp were tested (Fig. 6c).
!~MM~! Growth and hs treatment of A. thaliana (ecotype Col-0) plants were performed under long-day conditions as described by Schramm et al. (CITATION). For transient gene expression studies, tobacco (Nicotiana plumbaginifolia) leaf mesophyll protoplasts were used as described previously (Lyck et al. CITATION; Scharf et al. CITATION; Kirschner et al. CITATION). Monoclonal antibodies, clone 16B12 and 9E10 (Hiss Diagnostics), were used for immunodetection of 3HA and Myc-tagged proteins, respectively. Class-specific antibodies for immunodetection of endogenous class CI Hsps in tobacco protoplasts were used as described by Port et al. (CITATION), and polyclonal antibodies against rye catalase (Hertwig et al. CITATION) were kindly provided by Matthias Schmidt (Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main). Secondary antibodies conjugated with horseradish peroxidase or with fluorescent dyes CY2 and CY3 were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich and Dianova, respectively. Standard procedures were used for cloning and nucleic acid analyses. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fragments for subcloning were generated using the High Fidelity PCR Enzyme Mix (Fermentas). Protein extraction, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), and immunoblot analysis were performed as described previously (Mishra et al. CITATION; Port et al. CITATION). Protein sequence analyses were done with ClustalX 1.8.3, and phylogenetic relationships were visualized using TreeView 1.6.6. For secondary structure predictions, 3D-PSSM (http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/~3dpssm/index2.html) was used. Organellar targeting sequences and corresponding cleavage sites were predicted by iPSORT (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/), TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/), and MITOP (http://www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter). For calculation of isoelectric points (pI), Clone Manger 8 was used. Plant expression vectors were derived from the pRT series of vectors (Töpfer et al. CITATION). Modified versions providing a Myc epitope for N-terminal immunotag fusions were described before (Kirschner et al. CITATION; Siddique et al. CITATION). For the generation of fusion constructs with a C-terminal Myc tag, pRTC-Myc was constructed by ligation of the double-stranded annealing product of oligonucleotides 589F (5′-aattcccggctagcgagcaaaagctgatttctgaggaggatctgtaact-3′) and 590R (5′-ctagagttacagatcctcctcagaaatcagcttttgctcgctagccggg-3′) into pRT104 digested with EcoRI and XbaI. Specific forward and reverse primers were used for amplification of complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) fragments encoding the full-length open reading frames (ORFs) of sHsps analyzed in this study. Details of primer sequences and appropriate restriction sites inserted for ligation into pRTN-Myc or pRTC-Myc are summarized in Table S1. For analysis of transcript levels by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR in different tissues and temperature treatments, harvesting of plant material and ribonucleic acid (RNA) isolation were performed as described by Schramm et al. (CITATION). Specific forward and reverse primer combinations for amplification of the corresponding cDNA fragments are summarized in Table S1. For microarray-based expression analysis, primary datasets released by the AtGenExpress consortium (http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/expression/ATGenExpress.jsp) were normalized and further processed as described by Schramm et al. (CITATION). Microarray elements (Affymetrix ATH1 Gene Chip) selected for expression analysis are summarized in Table S2. For indirect immunofluorescence microscopy in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, procedures described by Scharf et al. (CITATION) were followed. The endogenous hs response of tobacco protoplasts was induced by preinduction (40°C for 15 min followed by 25°C for 3 h) and a second hs treatment at 40°C for 2 h. As a mitochondrial marker, an expression construct was cotransformed encoding amino acid residues 1 to 78 of the β1-subunit of A. thaliana F1-ATPase (At5g08670) fused N-terminally to the ORF of green fluorescent protein (GFP). Nuclei were visualized by staining with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Confocal laser scanning micrographs were captured using a Leica CLSM (Leica, Bensheim, Germany) and Imaris Software (Bitplane, Zurich). Bacterial expression constructs for Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp21.7-CVI, Hsp26.5-MII, and Hsp15.7-Po are based on plasmid pJC20 (Clos and Brandau CITATION) and were generated by PCR amplification using the corresponding plant expression constructs as template DNA. Details of primer sequences and appropriate restriction sites inserted for ligation into NdeI–BamHI linearized pJC20 are summarized in Table S1. For Hsp26.5-MII, a N-terminally truncated version (Hsp26.5-MIIΔTP, amino acid residues 42–232) was generated to remove the putative mitochondrial target peptide (TP, amino acid residues 1–41) to express the predicted mature protein. For expression, Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) (Stratagene) was used, and the purification of recombinant sHsps was performed according to the protocol described by Lee and Vierling (CITATION) with following modifications. Hsp18.5-CIV, Hsp21.7-CVI, and Hsp26.5-MIIΔTP were precipitated from cell lysates by adding ammonium sulfate to the concentration of 60% to 80% (w/w). Protein precipitates were dissolved in T25E1 buffer, dialyzed, and loaded on a diethylaminoethyl (DEAE) column (Sigma Fast Flow, DFF-100, DEAE Sepharose) as previously described (Lee and Vierling CITATION). After elution of AtHsp21.7-CVI with TE25E1 buffer, the protein was used without any further purification. For elution of Hsp18.5-CIV and Hsp26.5-MIIΔTP gradients of NaCl in T25E1 buffer were required with 0 to 200 mM and 0 to 120 mM NaCl, respectively. Hsp26.5-MIIΔTP was further purified by hydroxyapatite chromatography (Bio-Gel HT, Biorad) according to Lee and Vierling (CITATION). For elution, a gradient from 25 to 400 mM NaPO4 was used. Expression of Hsp15.7-Po resulted in the formation of inclusion bodies. After resolubilization with 5 M guanidinium–HCl in T25E1, the recombinant protein was further purified according to Lin and Cheng (CITATION). Solubilized protein samples were loaded on a DEAE chromatography column and eluted with buffer D (Lin and Cheng CITATION). Eluted protein fractions were pooled and dialyzed against 5 M guanidinium–HCl in 25 mM NaPO4 buffer (pH 7.5) before application to a final purification step on hydroxyapatite. Purified recombinant Hsp17.6C-CI was kindly provided by E. Basha (University of Arizona, USA). Protein concentrations were determined using calculated extinction coefficients according to Pace et al. (CITATION). The firefly luciferase-refolding assay was done as previously described (Lee and Vierling CITATION). Rabbit reticulocyte lysate (RRL) was acquired from Green Hectares (Oregon, USA) and QuantiLum Recombinant Luciferase from Promega. Heating reactions were carried out in 2.5 mM HEPES–KOH pH 7.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 150 mM KCl, and 2 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) in a total volume of 25 μl. For denaturation, samples containing 1 μM luciferase and various amounts of recombinant sHsp were incubated at 42°C for 8.5 min and cooled on ice for 5 min. After dilution of all samples into the RRL reactivation mixture (Lee and Vierling CITATION) to a final luciferase concentration of 25 nM in a total volume of 40 μl, luciferase activity was determined by adding 2.5-μl aliquots of each reaction to 50 μl of luciferase-measuring buffer (20 mM Tricine–KOH pH 7.5, 2.7 mM MgSO4, 0.1 mM ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, 33 mM DTT, 0.5 mM ATP, 255 μM coenzyme A, 100 μM luciferin). Luminescence was measured in a luminometer (Mikrolumat 2400; EG&G Berthold) with an integration time of 10 s. The activity, expressed as relative light units was compared to the corresponding activity before heating. Denaturation of luciferase was monitored immediately after heat treatment by centrifugation of sample aliquots at 15,000 rpm for 15 min. The resulting supernatant and pellet fractions were separated by 12% SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue.
