!~ABS~! The transcriptional regulator CONSTANS (CO) promotes flowering of Arabidopsis under long summer days (LDs) but not under short winter days (SDs). Post-translational regulation of CO is crucial for this response by stabilizing the protein at the end of a LD, whereas promoting its degradation throughout the night under LD and SD. We show that mutations in CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (COP1), a component of a ubiquitin ligase, cause extreme early flowering under SDs, and that this is largely dependent on CO activity. Furthermore, transcription of the CO target gene FT is increased in cop1 mutants and decreased in plants overexpressing COP1 in phloem companion cells. COP1 and CO interact in vivo and in vitro through the C-terminal region of CO. COP1 promotes CO degradation mainly in the dark, so that in cop1 mutants CO protein but not CO mRNA abundance is dramatically increased during the night. However, in the morning CO degradation occurs independently of COP1 by a phytochrome B-dependent mechanism. Thus, COP1 contributes to day length perception by reducing the abundance of CO during the night and thereby delaying flowering under SDs.
!~RES~! Previously cop1 mutants were shown to flower earlier than WT plants under short days (SDs) and at a similar time to WT plants under LDs (CITATIONet al, 1994). Under our conditions, cop1–4 mutants flowered dramatically earlier than WT plants under SDs, as shown previously, but in addition flowered earlier than WT plants under LDs. The cop1–4 mutant produced around 53 leaves fewer than WT plants before flowering under SDs, whereas under LDs the difference between mutant and WT was around 5 leaves (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the photoperiod response of cop1–4 mutants was severely reduced so that they flowered after forming only 3 leaves more under SDs than LDs, whereas WT plants formed around 45 leaves more under SDs. In WT plants, CO promotes early flowering under LDs but not SDs. To test whether the early flowering of cop1–4 mutants under SDs was caused by activation of CO under these conditions, the cop1–4 co-10 double mutant was constructed and its flowering time was measured. The double mutant flowered after forming around 30 leaves more than cop1–4 mutants under SDs, demonstrating that CO has an important role in the early flowering of cop1–4 mutants under SDs (CITATION). Nevertheless, cop1–4 co-10 plants formed 20 leaves fewer than co-10 plants under these conditions, indicating that part of the early flowering of the cop1–4 mutant occurs independently of CO. Under LDs, cop1–4 co-10 plants also flowered at a time intermediate between co-10 and cop1–4 (CITATION). These genetic results suggest that COP1 exerts an effect as a negative regulator of CO under SDs, so that CO promotes flowering of cop1–4 mutants but not WT plants under SDs. CO is expressed only in the vascular tissue and exerts an effect in the phloem companion cells to activate the transcription of the flowering-time gene FT (CITATION; CITATIONet al, 2004). To test whether COP1 also regulates flowering from the phloem, COP1 or HA:COP1 was expressed from the SUC2 promoter, which is active specifically in the phloem companion cells (CITATIONet al, 1999). The SUC2:COP1 transgene was introduced into WT Columbia plants and into cop1–4 mutants, whereas SUC2:HA:COP1 was introduced into SUC2:CO plants. SUC2:COP1 delayed flowering of cop1–4 mutants under LDs and SDs, and of WT plants under LDs (CITATION). Therefore, COP1 exerts an effect in the companion cells, where CO is expressed, to delay flowering. However, SUC2:COP1 cop1–4 plants still flower earlier than WT plants under SDs, suggesting that COP1 expression in companion cells is not sufficient to completely rescue the early-flowering phenotype of cop1–4 mutants, and therefore that COP1 probably also exerts an effect in additional cell types to delay flowering. The observation that SUC2:HA:COP1 delays flowering of SUC2:CO plants under LDs and SDs supports the idea that the delay of flowering associated with SUC2:COP1 is at least in part caused by reduction of CO activity (CITATION). Taken together, the flowering-time phenotypes of plants misexpressing COP1 in the phloem are consistent with the idea that COP1 exerts an effect in the phloem companion cells to repress the promotion of flowering by CO. FT transcription is activated by CO and likely represents a direct target of CO protein (CITATIONet al, 2000; CITATIONet al, 2005). Therefore, if COP1 exerts an effect to repress CO activity this should be reflected in reduced FT mRNA levels. In WT plants grown under SDs, CO mRNA is present during the night but FT mRNA is not expressed, because CO protein is rapidly degraded in the dark (CITATIONet al, 2001; CITATIONet al, 2004). The effects of COP1 on CO transcription and CO activity were tested by analysing CO and FT mRNA levels at 4-h intervals for 24 h in SD-grown plants of different genotypes (CITATION). In WT Columbia, CO mRNA was detected during the night under SDs, but was absent in co-10 and cop1–4 co-10 plants as expected due to the T-DNA insertion present in the CO gene in the co-10 allele (Materials and methods). In cop1–4 mutants, the CO mRNA pattern is similar to that observed in WT plants but rises earlier, appearing weakly 8 h after dawn, whereas in WT plants CO mRNA was first detected 12 h after dawn. In contrast, FT mRNA was detected in cop1–4 mutants but not WT plants, consistent with the early flowering of these mutants under SDs. Similarly, under LDs, FT mRNA levels were much higher in cop1–4 plants than in WT plants consistent with the earlier flowering of the mutants under these conditions (CITATION). However, under LDs, CO mRNA was consistently detected at lower levels in cop1–4 mutants than in WT plants (CITATION). The expression of FT mRNA in cop1–4 mutants requires CO activity, as demonstrated by the absence of FT mRNA in cop1–4 co-10 plants (CITATION). These results are consistent with the idea that COP1 delays flowering of WT plants under SDs, and to a lesser extent under LDs, by repressing CO activity and thereby preventing FT expression. The abundance of FT mRNA was also tested in transgenic plants expressing COP1 or HA:COP1 mRNAs at high levels in the phloem companion cells from the SUC2 promoter (CITATION). CO and FT mRNA levels were compared through a LD time course in SUC2:COP1 and WT plants. CO mRNA levels were very similar in both genotypes at all times, whereas FT mRNA levels were severely reduced in SUC2:COP1 plants (CITATION), consistent with the overexpression of COP1 in phloem companion cells leading to a reduction in CO activity at the post-transcriptional level. Similarly, 16 h after dawn under SDs, when FT mRNA reaches peak levels in cop1–4 mutants (CITATION), SUC2:COP1 cop1–4 plants displayed severely reduced levels of FT mRNA (CITATION). Finally, in SUC2:HA:COP1 SUC2:CO plants the level of FT mRNA was lower than in the SUC2:CO progenitor plants, but the level of CO mRNA was unaffected (CITATION). Therefore, analysis of FT mRNA in these transgenic plants supports the conclusion that COP1 delays flowering by repressing at the post-transcriptional level the capacity of CO to promote FT transcription in the phloem companion cells. The observation that the ubiquitin ligase COP1 represses CO-mediated activation of FT suggested that CO might be a substrate for COP1. To test this hypothesis, we first investigated whether COP1 was able to physically interact with CO. In the yeast two-hybrid system, we detected no interaction between CO and COP1, although an interaction between COP1 and the CO-related protein CO-LIKE3 (COL3) was previously detected by this method (CITATIONet al, 2006), and we were able to confirm this interaction. Therefore, whether COP1 and CO interact in vitro was tested using a co-immunoprecipitation assay (CITATION). COP1 attached to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD:COP1) and CO were made in an in vitro transcription/translation system and combined. GAD:COP1 was precipitated with anti-GAD antibody and CO was co-precipitated with GAD:COP1 (CITATION). In contrast, CO was not co-immunoprecipitated with GAD alone. These experiments suggest that CO interacts with COP1 in the GAD:COP1 fusion protein. Fragments of CO were also combined with GAD:COP1 to determine which regions of CO are required for the interaction with COP1. Two segments of CO were tested: one containing the region between amino acids 107 and 373, which was called COΔB-box because it did not contain the zinc-finger B-boxes found at the N terminus of CO, and a second containing the region between amino acids 1 and 331, which was named COΔCCT, because the CCT domain near the C terminus of CO was removed. In vitro precipitation experiments demonstrated that COΔB-box was co-immunoprecipitated with GAD:COP1, whereas COΔCCT was not. Therefore, the N-terminal region containing the B-boxes is not required for interaction with COP1, suggesting that the interaction with COP1 is mediated by the C-terminal region of CO that contains the CCT domain. Whether the interaction between CO and COP1 also occurred in vivo in plant cells was tested using fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET). Microprojectile bombardment was used to co-express cyan fluorescent protein (CFP):COP1 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):CO in leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis. CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO colocalized to the nucleus and also colocalized in speckles within the nucleus (CITATION). Physical interaction of CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO was tested by measuring FRET using photoacceptor bleaching, as previously described (CITATIONet al, 2006) (CITATION). Quantification of FRET signals demonstrated that FRET occurred between YFP:CO and CFP:COP1 both in the nucleus and specifically in nuclear speckles (CITATION). In control experiments using YFP and CFP, YFP:CO and CFP or YFP and CFP:COP1 FRET was detected at significantly lower levels (CITATION). These experiments demonstrate that YFP:CO and CFP:COP1 colocalize and physically interact in the nuclei of plant cells. The genetic and molecular experiments described earlier supported the hypothesis that COP1 negatively regulates CO activity at the post-transcriptional level. Therefore, we tested the effect of COP1 on CO protein levels. First, CO protein abundance was examined in nuclei of WT Columbia, co-10, transgenic 35S:CO and cop1–4 plants harvested 16 h after dawn under LDs, when CO protein is expected to be at highest abundance (CITATIONet al, 2004) (CITATION). As shown previously, CO was clearly detectable in 35S:CO transgenic plants that overexpress the protein, but was below the level of detection in nuclei of WT plants. However, in cop1–4 mutants, CO was clearly detected, suggesting that in WT plants COP1 has a major function in reducing CO protein levels at this time. Strong support that the protein detected in cop1–4 mutants was indeed CO protein came from the analysis of cop1–4 co-10 double mutants, in which the protein detected in cop1–4 mutants was no longer present (CITATION). CO mRNA shows a diurnal rhythm in abundance in WT plants and in cop1–4 mutants, therefore the diurnal pattern of CO protein abundance was tested under LDs and SDs in cop1–4 mutants (CITATION). Under SDs of 8 h light, cop1–4 mutants flower dramatically earlier than WT plants (CITATION) and CO protein was present for most but not all of the diurnal cycle (CITATION). CO was strongly detected soon after dawn, was absent or present at much lower abundance 4 and 8 h after dawn, and then was present strongly for the remainder of the night from 10 to 24 h after dawn. The appearance of CO protein from 10 h after dawn is likely due to an increase in CO mRNA levels, as the abundance of CO mRNA increased steeply between 4 and 14 h after dawn in the same plants used for the protein analysis (CITATION). In contrast, CO mRNA abundance fell between 14 and 24 h after dawn, whereas CO protein levels were high throughout this time. This comparison suggests that impairing COP1 function causes CO protein to be relatively stable in the dark. However, the steep decline in CO protein abundance between 0.5 and 4 h after dawn suggests that a second post-translational mechanism, independent of COP1, might negatively regulate CO protein levels in the morning. Under LDs of 16-h photoperiods, CO protein was detected from dawn until 4 h into the photoperiod, was undetectable 6 h after dawn and then was present for the remainder of the photoperiod and throughout the night (CITATION). This pattern was similar to that detected under SDs, but the protein was detectable for longer and was only absent at one time point, 6 h after dawn. The broader peak in CO protein under LDs is likely due to CO mRNA being expressed for longer under LDs, as previously described (CITATIONet al, 2001; CITATIONet al, 2003). The photoreceptor phyB was previously shown to promote the degradation of CO protein early in the day in 35S:CO plants, and this was proposed to contribute to the inhibitory effect of phyB on flowering time (CITATIONet al, 2004). To test whether phyB is responsible for the reduction in CO protein levels early in the day in cop1 mutants, the phyB-9 cop1–6 double mutant was tested for flowering time and CO protein levels. Under SDs, phyB-9 cop1–6 plants flowered at a very similar time to cop1–6 mutants, demonstrating that the early flowering of cop1–6 mutants is not enhanced by loss of function of phyB (CITATION). Under LDs, the double mutant flowered significantly later than either single mutant, which indicates a complexity in the interaction between COP1 and phyB under these conditions that cannot be simply explained by regulation of CO protein levels (see Discussion). To test whether phyB is responsible for the reduction in CO protein early in the day in cop1 mutants, protein was extracted from phyB-9 cop1–6 and cop1–6 plants 6 and 16 h after dawn under SDs. In the cop1–6 plants, CO protein was undetectable 6 h after dawn, as observed for cop1–4 mutants, but in phyB-9 cop1–6 plants CO protein accumulated strongly 6 h after dawn (CITATION). In contrast, CO mRNA was present at similar levels in cop1–6 and phyB-9 cop1–6 plants 6 h after dawn (CITATION). These results indicate that phyB is required for post-transcriptional regulation of CO expression early in the day and independently of COP1. However, in the samples harvested 16 h after dawn CO protein was present at similar levels in cop1–6 and phyB-9 cop1–6 plants, indicating that phyB does not influence CO protein levels at that time of day (CITATION). SPA1 interacts with COP1 and is implicated in the degradation of some COP1 substrates. Recently, CO protein was shown to be more abundant in spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutants 16 h after dawn under LDs (CITATIONet al, 2006). The diurnal pattern of CO protein abundance in spa1–7 mutant plants was tested to compare with that described for cop1–4 mutants (CITATION). A similar pattern of CO protein accumulation was observed in spa1–7 and cop1–4 mutants between 14 h after dawn and the following morning, but the rise in the abundance of the protein was delayed in the spa1–7 mutant, so that it could not be detected until 14 h after dawn. In contrast, in the cop1–4 mutant CO protein was strongly detected 10 h after dawn. These results suggest a functional relationship between COP1 and SPA1 proteins in the degradation of CO, and that of the four SPA proteins SPA1 has the major role in regulating CO levels. The delayed increase in CO abundance in spa1–7 compared with cop1–4 mutants might be due to the activity of other SPA proteins. Arabidopsis plants flower later under red light and previously this was proposed to be at least partly due to degradation of CO protein under these conditions (CITATIONet al, 2004). To test whether red light-mediated degradation of CO protein is also impaired in the cop1–4 mutants, CO protein abundance was compared in 35S:CO and cop1–4 plants grown under white and red light (CITATION). Similar levels of CO protein were detected in both lines grown under 16 h of white light (CITATION). Furthermore, when both genotypes were exposed to 16 h of red light, CO protein abundance fell sharply in both 35S:CO plants and cop1–4 mutants (CITATION). The reduced levels of CO protein observed in cop1–4 mutants under red light compared with white light are not due to lower levels of CO mRNA, which were identical under both conditions (CITATION). This result demonstrates that a COP1-independent mechanism is required for CO protein degradation under red light.
!~MM~! WT Arabidopsis thaliana plants and all mutants used in this study were Col-0. The cop1–4 allele was previously characterized (CITATIONet al, 1994). The co-10 allele was previously used (CITATIONet al, 2006) and was confirmed to have a T-DNA insertion 342 bp after the ATG. Homozygous cop1–4 co mutant plants were found using PCR-based markers. The cop1–6 phyB-9 and cop1–6 seeds were kindly provided by Dr Jorge Casal (CITATIONet al, 2004). For analysis of flowering time and gene expression, plants were grown on soil in controlled environment rooms under LDs (16 h light–8 h dark) or SDs (8 h light–16 h dark). Flowering time was measured by scoring the number of rosette and cauline leaves on the main stem of at least eight individuals. Data are expressed as average±s.d. Arabidopsis RNA was isolated with the Plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA was analysed by RT–PCR. Detailed protocols and the origins of the primer sequences are presented in CITATION. The COP1 full-length cDNA was isolated by RT–PCR and produced as entry clone through BP reaction of Gateway system from Invitrogen. Then, the entry clone was utilized for the construction of destination vectors for plant transformation, FRET experiments and in vitro-binding assay. All plasmids for plant transformation were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (pMP90RK) and transformed into WT Columbia, cop1–4 or SUC2:CO (CITATIONet al, 2004) plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). For the in vitro expression of GAD:COP1, we produced the vector pJIC39 containing pT7:GAD:GATEWAY cassette and T7 terminator, so that by LR reaction with the COP1 entry clone, the construct expressing GAD∷COP1 is produced. Vector (CITATIONet al, 2006; CITATIONet al, 2007) pJIC26 is similar but contains only the GAD domain and was used for expressing full open reading frame of CO or parts of the ORF. COΔB-box and COΔCCT (CITATIONet al, 2006) were also tested for the binding with COP1. The detailed method used for the in vitro precipitation experiments is presented in CITATION. To express CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO in plants, the CO and COP1 genes were cloned into the GATEWAY vectors pENSG:CFP or pENSG:YFP by recombination reaction. In these vectors, CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO are expressed under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter (CITATIONet al, 2006). The method used to analyse FRET is described in detail in CITATION. WT Columbia, cop1–4 and spa1–7 were grown in temperature-controlled light cabinets either under LDs (16 h light and 8 h dark) or SDs (8 h light and 16 h dark). Plants were grown on solid germination medium for 2 weeks, harvested at specified zeitgeber time (ZT), frozen in liquid nitrogen and kept at −80°C until further use. For the red light experiments, 35S:CO and cop1–4 plants were grown in LD (16 h light–8 h dark) for 12 days, moved to red light conditions at ZT 0 and maintained for 16 h under red light. Nuclear extracts were prepared from the plants at different ZT times as described previously (CITATIONet al, 2004). Nuclear proteins (17 μg) were separated employing 10% bis-Tris NuPAGE gels (Invitrogen), transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and probed with an anti-CO antibody followed by a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody. Immunoreactive proteins were visualized by Pico chemiluminescence substrate system (Pierce). The membrane was subsequently reprobed with an antibody against histone H3a (Abcam) as a loading control.
