!~ABS~! The plant ethylene receptor ETR1, which shows substantial sequence homology to typical bacterial histidine kinases, is involved in the coordination of several growth and development processes. Fluorescence polarization studies presented here demonstrate a specific interaction of ETR1 with the histidine-containing transfer protein AHP1, supporting the idea that a phosphorelay module is involved in ethylene signaling. The sensitive assay employed in our studies allows analysis of protein–protein interactions in a homogenous aqueous environment, exact control of external parameters, and quantitative analysis of the affinity and stability of the complex. Thereby it provides the basics for a more quantitative elucidation of phosphorelay modules acquired in phytohormone signaling.
!~RES~! The DNA fragment encoding the A. thaliana histidine-containing transfer protein AHP1 obtained from expression plasmid pAHP1 was cloned into expression plasmid pET21a (Novagen). Thereafter DNA coding for the S65T variant of the GFP was fused to the 3′ end of AHP1 in the pET21a expression plasmid resulting in a C-terminally hexahistidine-tagged AHP1-GFP(S65T) fusion protein (CITATION A) that was transfected into E. coli strain BL21 Gold (DE3). Induction of E. coli BL21 Gold (DE3)/pAHP1:GFP(S65T) by the addition of IPTG resulted in production of recombinant AHP1-GFP(S65T) fusion protein partially in the soluble form (data not shown). Production of recombinant fusion protein was analyzed by SDS–PAGE. Studies to optimize IPTG-induced protein expression demonstrated maximum protein yield after overnight expression induced with 0.1 mM IPTG at 16°C (CITATIONB). Overexpressed recombinant AHP1-GFP(S65T) was purified to apparent homogeneity from extracts of E. coli BL21 Gold (DE3) cells using Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). A single band on SDS–PAGE confirmed the homogeneity of the protein (CITATIONC). Identity of AHP1-GFP(S65T) was confirmed with antihistidine antibodies (CITATIOND). Fluorescence characteristics of purified AHP1-GFP(S65T) resembling those of isolated GFP(S65T) support the native conformation of the overexpressed recombinant protein. Derivatives of the pET16b expression vector encoding for an N-terminal decahistidine-tagged protein (ETR11-738 or ETR11-609) were used for the expression of the A. thaliana ETR1 receptor in E. coli strain C43 (λDE3). Expression was monitored by SDS–PAGE and ETR1 was found in the membrane fraction of the cells (data not shown). ETR1 was solubilized from the membranes by 8 M urea and purified to homogeneity on Ni-NTA agarose (CITATION A). The purified proteins were refolded by dilution, and intrinsic autokinase activity of the proteins was demonstrated by incorporation of radiolabeled [γ-32P]ATP into the protein (CITATIONB). Regulation of autokinase activity by ethylene CITATION suggests that the recombinant ETR1 proteins adopt a well-folded structure which is likely to reflect the natural structure of the protein. Fluorescence polarization was used to monitor and quantify the interaction between purified recombinant AHP1-GFP(S65T) and ETR1 in a homogenous solution allowing precise control of external parameters, e.g., pH, viscosity, and temperature. Formation of a complex between the two putative phosphorelay partners was deduced from an increase in fluorescence polarization caused by the slower rotation and the associated increased rotational correlation time of a ETR1-AHP1-GFP(S65T) complex (apparent M r 130 kDa) compared to free AHP-GFP(S65T) (apparent M r 45 kDa). CITATION A demonstrates that addition of purified ETR1 receptor to fluorescent AHP1-GFP(S65T) resulted in a marked increase in fluorescence polarization that was also observed when only the membrane extrinsic part of ETR1 (amino acids 164–738) was applied in the assay. Addition of ETR1 buffer solution on its own resulted in no detectable change in fluorescence polarization, emphasizing that the changes observed in the titration studies with purified ETR1 are not induced due to solution effects. Fluorescence polarization measurements at pH 7.0 and 9.0 (CITATIONB and 3C) showed that the interaction between the two signaling partners was not significantly altered by changing the pH by 1.0 unit, suggesting that none of the amino acids involved in the interaction experience a change in its protonation state within this pH range. Specificity of the AHP1–ETR1 interaction and identification of the interacting domains was probed in fluorescence polarization studies using a truncated ETR1 receptor protein (amino acids 1–609) lacking the C-terminal receiver domain which shows high sequence homology with prokaryotic response regulator proteins. With the C-terminal part of ETR1 missing, no increase in fluorescence polarization was detected upon addition of ETR1 (CITATION), supporting the idea that this part of the protein bearing the conserved aspartate is involved in signaling of the phosphoryl group to the invariant histidine residue in histidine-containing transfer proteins such as AHP1. Fluorescence polarization was also used to quantify the stability of the AHP1–ETR1 complex and to calculate the apparent dissociation constant of this putative phosphorelay intermediate. The dissociation constant K d was calculated from the changes in fluorescence polarization induced by different amounts of ETR1 directly added to the fluorescent AHP1-GFP protein in the fluorescence cuvette (CITATION ). The average value obtained from three independent preparations and triplicate measurements was 1.43×10−6 ±0.29×10−6 M. Titrations at higher starting concentrations of AHP1-GFP(S65T) confirmed this number. Typical numbers for protein–protein interactions range from 6×10−14 M for trypsin:pancreatic trypsin inhibitor CITATION to 1.3×10−5 M for the signaling complex CheA–CheW CITATION. The apparent dissociation constant found for the AHP1–ETR1 complex is at the upper border of these data but fits reasonable well with the data obtained for other phosphorelays such as the bacterial CheA–CheW complex CITATION. Furthermore, the dissociation constant and the related stability of the AHP1–ETR1 complex might depend on the phoshorylation status of ETR1 or AHP1 and lower numbers might be obtained with the phosphorylated proteins or with ethylene agonists or antagonists bound to the N-terminal transmembrane sensor domain. Also higher complex constants might be found for the interactions of ETR1 with AHP2-AHP5. Previous studies by yeast two-hybrid analyses have indicated a specific interaction of the hybrid-type histidine kinase ETR1 of A. thaliana which is a central element of ethylene signaling with histidine-containing transfer proteins CITATION. However, these studies have been restricted to the soluble extramembranous domain of the ETR1 receptor protein (amino acids 321–721) because the yeast two-hybrid system is not suitable for monitoring interactions between proteins containing hydrophobic membrane-intrinsic patches. Also false positive interactions might occur in this system because no intrinsic tool verifying correct folding of the heterologous proteins expressed in yeast is applied. Naturally, yeast two-hybrid systems also provide no quantitative information on the stability or affinity of the putative interaction partners. In the context of the abundant cross talk reported for phytohormone signaling CITATION a quantitative elucidation of the protein–protein interactions involved in these signaling cascades is crucial to recognize and perhaps predict how certain environmental or developmental conditions affect these interactions. The fluorescence polarization assay presented here confirmed a specific interaction between the full-length ethylene receptor ETR1 and the histidine-containing transfer protein AHP1. Functional folding of both reaction partners was demonstrated before–either by intrinsic fluorescence characteristics of the GFP fusion protein or, for the full-length ETR1 receptor protein, by an activity assay regulated by the binding of the phytohormone or its analogues to the transmembrane sensor domain. The sensitive fluorescence techniques applied in our studies require only small amounts of proteins (10−9 M range) and allow exact control of the external parameters of the protein–protein interaction. More importantly they offer quantification of the affinity and stability of the complex and could provide information on the kinetics of the protein–protein interaction when analysis is extended from steady state to time-resolved fluorescence polarization measurements. With this method we now have a tool for systematic and quantitative analysis of protein–protein interactions between ETR1 and the different AHPs of A. thaliana. These studies are thought to identify the preferred interaction partners under certain conditions, e.g., depending on the phosphorylation status, and to provide an excellent approach to elucidate, some of the signaling processes involved in ethylene signaling in a quantitative context. Extension of our sensitive fluorescence-based assay by various fluorescent Arabidopsis response regulator fusion proteins is in development, enabling quantitative analysis of the complete multistep phosphorelay cascade that is supposed to be involved in ethylene signaling and other two-component systems.
!~MM~! The DNA fragment encoding the A. thaliana AHP1 protein and a fragment coding for the S65T variant of the green fluorescent protein CITATION which was used because of its enhanced brightness, faster chromophore formation, and slower photobleaching CITATION were cloned into the expression vector pET21a (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany). Resulting plasmid pAHP1-GFP(S65T) containing hexahistidine-tagged fusion protein AHP1-GFP(S65T) was transformed into the Escherichia coli strain BL21 Gold (DE3) and cells were grown in TB medium at 16°C. Expression of AHP-GFP(S65T) was induced by the addition of 0.1 mM IPTG at an optical density of 1.0–1.2. Cells were harvested 24 h after induction by centrifugation and stored at −70°C. Cells were resuspended in 30 mM Bis–Tris–HCl, pH 6.0, 150 mM sodium chloride, 30 mM imidazole, 10% (v/v) glycerol and disrupted by sonification. The cell lysate was centrifuged at 10,000g and supernatant was purified by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography under native conditions. Purified AHP1-GFP(S65T) fusion protein was stored at −70°C. Plasmid pET16b (Novagen) containing the fragment encoding the complete ETR1 receptor protein from A. thaliana was cloned according to the protocol given in CITATION and transformed into strain C43 (DE3) CITATION. Cultures were grown at 30°C. Expression of full-length ETR1 was induced by addition of 0.5 mM IPTG at an optical density of 1.0. Cells were harvested 7 h after induction by centrifugation. The resulting cell pellet was resuspended in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 15% (v/v) glycerol, 200 mM sodium chloride, 0,002% (w/v) phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and twice passed through a French pressure cell at 12,000 psi. After centrifugation of the cell lysate at 30,000g for 30 min the pellet was resuspended in 20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM sodium chloride, 8 M urea. Proteins were extracted by stirring at 37°C for 1 h. Then the extract was cleared by centrifugation at 30,000g. The supernatant was supplied with 20 mM imidazole and applied on a Ni-NTA affinity column (0.5 cm diameter×7 cm length) previously equilibrated with 20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM sodium chloride, 8 M urea. Bound ETR1 was washed with 30 column volumes of the same buffer containing 50 mM imidazole and eluated with 6 column volumes of the buffer containing 250 mM imidiazole. Purified ETR1 was concentrated to 0.8 mg/ml and refolded by diluting 1:20 in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM potassium chloride, 1.1 mM EDTA, 0.055% polyethylene glycol 3350, 10 mM dithiothreitol, 0.1% (w/v) β-d-dodecylmaltoside. To remove remaining urea, imidazole, and reagents required for refolding, ETR1 was loaded onto a G25 gel filtration column (1 cm diameter×4 cm length) and eluated with a buffer containing 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM potassium chloride, 0.1% (w/v) β-d-dodecylmaltoside, 0.002% PMSF. ETR1 lacking the C-terminal receiver domain (amino acids 610–709) was cloned into plasmid pET16b, expressed in E. coli C43 (DE3), and purified as described for the full-length receptor. Fluorescence polarization was measured with a LS-55 Luminescence Spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer, Rodgau-Jügesheim, Germany). Measurements were carried out with 8 nM AHP1-GFP(S65T) at 20°C in a Quartz SUPRASIL macro/semi-micro cuvette (Perkin Elmer) containing 500 μl of 100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.0, 8.0, or 9.0, 100 mM potassium chloride, 0.1% (w/v) β-d-dodecylmaltoside, 0.002% (w/v) PMSF. Purified ETR1 was added to a final concentration of 20 μM. The concentration-dependent increase in fluorescence polarization associated with the addition of the receptor protein was fit to the equation CITATION P - P min = ( P max - P min ) × [ R ] K d + [ R ] , where [R] is the concentration of the added ETR1 receptor, P is the polarization determined at different concentrations of the receptor, Pmin is the polarization in the absence of ETR1 corresponding to the free AHP1-GFP(S65T) phosphotransfer protein, and K d is the dissociation constant of the ETR1-AHP1-GFP(S65T) complex. Pmax , which corresponds to the polarization of the ETR1-AHP1-GFP(S65T) complex, is treated as a fitting parameter because the amount of protein added was just enough to attain saturation. Protein concentrations were determined by the bicinchoninic acid assay (Perbio Science, Bonn, Germany) for the membrane receptor protein ETR1 and by the Bio-Rad protein assay (Bio-Rad, München, Germany) for AHP1-GFP(S65T), using bovine serum albumin as a standard. Purification of recombinant proteins was examined by SDS polyacrylamide electrophoresis as described by Laemmli CITATION and Schägger and Jagow CITATION. Proteins were separated on 10–12% polyacrylamide gels and visualized by silver staining according to Heukeshoven and Dernick CITATION.
