!~ABS~! Given the central role of cell division in meristems, one might expect meristem growth to be regulated by mitotic checkpoints, including checkpoints for correct microtubule function. Here, we studied the role of two close Phosducin-Like Protein 3 homologs from Arabidopsis thaliana (PLP3a and PLP3b) in the microtubule assembly pathway and determined the consequences of inhibiting PLP3a and PLP3b expression in the meristem. PLP3 function is essential in Arabidopsis: impairing PLP3a and PLP3b expression disrupted microtubule arrays and caused polyploidy, aneuploidy, defective cytokinesis, and disoriented cell growth. Consistent with a role in microtubule formation, PLP3a interacted with β-tubulin in the yeast two-hybrid assay and, when overexpressed, increased resistance to drugs that inhibit tubulin polymerization. Inhibition of PLP3 function targeted to the meristem caused severe mitotic defects, but the cells carried on cycling through DNA replication and abortive cytokinesis. Thus, we showed that PLP3 is involved in microtubule formation in Arabidopsis and provided genetic evidence that cell viability and growth in the meristem are not subordinate to successful completion of microtubule-dependent steps of cell division.
!~RES~! Here, we refer to Arabidopsis PhLP3 (CITATION) as PLP3a and to a closely related gene, which encodes a protein 90% identical and 97% similar to PLP3a, as PLP3b. PLP3a initially attracted our attention because microarray experiments indicated that this gene was preferentially expressed in the inflorescence meristem (using whole seedlings as the baseline) and was activated by ectopic expression of the meristem development gene SHOOT MERISTEMLESS (STM), suggesting that PLP3a could be relevant to meristem function (C. Woodward and R. Sablowski, unpublished data). RNA in situ hybridization confirmed the expression of PLP3a in the inflorescence and floral meristems but also showed expression in floral organ primordia and to a lower level throughout the inflorescence tip (Figures 1A and 1B ). [[FIGURE]] For a wider view of PLP3a expression, we used reporter genes that contained the complete intergenic region upstream of PLP3a and the complete coding sequence and introns, fused with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporters inserted in frame just before the stop codon. Three independent GUS reporter lines were examined in detail and showed the same pattern. In the inflorescence, GUS expression was detected in the meristem and in young floral buds and subsequently remained strong in parts of the carpels and stamens (Figure 1C). During the vegetative phase, GUS was initially expressed throughout the mature embryo, including the hypocotyl and cotyledons (Figure 1D). In seedlings, expression was highest in the shoot meristem and leaf primordia, in the primary and lateral root meristems, and at the base of the hypocotyls; lower levels were seen in the elongating zone of the root, in the hypocotyls near the shoot apex, and in the vasculature of cotyledons (Figures 1E and 1G); in leaves, the initial expression in the primordia disappeared as the leaves began to expand (Figure 1F). This pattern was consistent with the expression of PLP3a in different organs as determined by quantitative RT-PCR (Figure 1H) and reported in publicly available expression array data (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at/). The two independent GFP reporter lines analyzed showed the same expression pattern as the GUS lines and were used for a more detailed analysis at the cellular level. Optical sections through the inflorescence apex showed GFP throughout the meristem and floral buds (Figure 1I); in the root meristem, GFP was seen in all meristem cells and in the elongation zone (Figure 1J). In both cases, the GFP fusion protein was dispersed in both the cytoplasm and in the nucleus (Figure 1K), similar to the localization reported for PhLP3 in C. elegans (CITATION). In summary, expression of PLP3a was highest in tissues with active cell division and decreased as cells differentiated but was not exclusively associated with cell division, as it was also seen in the vasculature and in mature reproductive organs. To study the function of PLP3a, we initially searched public databases for insertional mutants, but none were available. TILLING (CITATION) only yielded alleles with amino acid changes (H83N and D93N) that caused no visible phenotypes alone or in combination with the plp3b-1 mutation described below. We then inhibited PLP3a expression by RNAi, using the widely expressed 35S promoter to direct expression of an RNA hairpin construct matching the PLP3a sequence. We recovered three 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) lines that segregated the construct as single Mendelian loci (to avoid the complication of transcriptional silencing of the transgene) and had reduced levels of PLP3a RNA. In seedlings (combined progeny of hemizygous individuals), the levels of PLP3a expression ranged from 35 to 72% of the wild-type control, while expression of the closest homolog of PLP3a (PLP3b) showed only minor changes (Figure 2A ). The reduced expression of PLP3a in these plants, however, caused no obvious defects. [[FIGURE]] As PLP3b expression overlapped with PLP3a (Figure 1H), these genes could be functionally redundant. To test this, we crossed the 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) lines with a PLP3b insertional mutant (plp3b-1) caused by a Ds element insertion in the first exon. The plp3b-1 mutation abolished expression of PLP3b (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), but on its own did not cause any visible phenotypes. However, when each of the three independent 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) lines was combined with plp3b-1 (with both transgene and mutation confirmed by PCR genotyping), a novel phenotype was seen (Figures 2C to 2F). The cotyledons and hypocotyls of 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings appeared rough and deformed, cotyledon number was frequently abnormal (1 to 3), the seedlings failed to produce more than one or two leaves, and in the most severe cases growth of the primary root was also inhibited. A range of phenotypic severity (Figure 2C) was seen in each line, with more severe defects in the lines with the strongest reduction in PLP3a expression (lines 1 and 2, Figure 2A). As often seen for RNAi, the penetrance of the abnormal phenotype in populations of 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings was not complete, with the frequency of deformed and arrested seedlings in different lines ranging from 25% (line 1, n = 337) to 73% (line 2, n = 185). Nevertheless, the fact that these phenotypes were seen only when independent 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) lines were crossed into the plp3b-1 background confirmed the specificity of RNAi inhibition in these lines (since a knockout of the most closely related gene was still required) and showed that PLP3b was indeed able to cover for partial loss of PLP3a function during seedling development. Closer examination of the deformed cotyledons in 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 plants revealed that they contained enlarged and misshapen cells, sometimes forming a sector within the cotyledon (Figures 2D to 2F). Partial cell walls (arrows in Figures 2E and 2F) indicated defects in cytokinesis (see also Figure 7H). 4′,6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining showed that the nuclei of the abnormal cotyledon cells were larger than in the wild type and contained multiple nucleoli, instead of the single nucleolus seen in wild-type cells (cf. insets in Figures 2G and 2H). In the 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings, pairs of cells that appeared to derive from a recent mitosis often, but not always, had their nuclei very closely juxtaposed (cf. pairs of cells indicated by arrows in Figure 2H with the wild-type controls in 2G). The large nuclei with extranumerary nucleoli suggested that these cells were polyploid, so we used flow cytometry to measure ploidy in the abnormal seedlings. The 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings had not only increased ploidy but also discrete peaks of nuclei with intermediate levels of DNA content, suggesting aneuploidy (Figure 3 ). [[FIGURE]] The cellular defects caused by loss of both PLP3a and PLP3b function suggest a deficiency in microtubule functions, consistent with the proposed role of the closest homolog in yeast (PLP1) in an early step of β-tubulin folding (CITATION). To directly check whether PLP3a and PLP3b are required for microtubule assembly in vivo, we tested whether microtubule arrays were disrupted in the 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings using Arabidopsis plants also expressing a fusion between GFP and α-tubulin (GFP-TUA6; CITATION). GFP-TUA6, plp3b-1 seedlings developed normally and showed a normal pattern of cortical microtubule arrays in the cotyledon epidermal cells (Figure 4A ). When GFP-TUA6 was crossed into the 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 background, the seedlings again developed the enlarged cotyledon cells shown in Figures 2E and 2F. Using the same settings as for Figure 4A, GFP-TUA6 was barely visible in these cells, suggesting that lower levels of GFP-tubulin accumulated. With increased sensitivity, GFP-TUA6 could be detected, but it was not organized in microtubule arrays and sometimes appeared to be inside vesicles (Figures 4C and 4D); this pattern of fluorescence was not detected with the same settings in 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 cells lacking GFP-TUA6. [[FIGURE]] To control for the possibility that loss of PLP3 function could preferentially affect the accumulation of the GFP-TUA fusion protein, but still leave enough native tubulin to form microtubule arrays that would not be tagged with GFP, we used the microtubule binding MAP4-GFP fusion as an independent microtubule marker (CITATION). In agreement with the results using GFP-TUA6, the cotyledon epidermal cells of 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings had only a few faint MAP4-GFP–marked microtubules, contrasting with the wild-type control that showed clear MAP4-GFP–marked microtubule arrays (Figures 4E and 4F). The results above showed that PLP3a/PLP3b activity is required for microtubule assembly and for microtubule-dependent processes. To determine whether increased PLP3a expression would facilitate microtubule function, we tested whether PLP3a overexpression would alter the plant's resistance to microtubule poisons. Plants were generated that expressed a HA-tagged PLP3a under the 35S promoter (35S:HA-PLP3), and three independent transgenic lines were chosen in which expression of the tagged protein was confirmed by protein gel blotting (Figure 5A ). Seedlings of these lines were germinated on media containing propyzamide, oryzalin, or taxol. Both propyzamide and oryzalin are plant-specific microtubule poisons that bind rapidly and reversibly to tubulin subunits. Propyzamide inhibits the assembly of microtubules both in vivo and in vitro (CITATION), whereas oryzalin appears to be incorporated into microtubules and to slow down or inhibit further incorporation of tubulin subunits (CITATION). Taxol, by contrast, stabilizes microtubules in vivo and in vitro (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Propyzamide (3 μM) and oryzalin (50 nM) had similar effects on wild-type seedlings: root growth was twisted and inhibited by 65 to 70%, and root epidermal cells were grossly enlarged and protruded from the root surface (Figure 5; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Consistent with its different mode of action, 1 μM taxol caused different growth defects: root growth was inhibited to a lesser extent (37%), and root epidermal cells did not swell, but the aerial parts were more strongly affected, showing thickened hypocotyls and inhibited cotyledon expansion (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Increased PLP3a expression did not affect the way seedlings responded to 1 μM taxol (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) but partially suppressed the effects of propyzamide and oryzalin. In the 35S:HA-PLP3a lines, the inhibition of root elongation by 3 μM propyzamide ranged from 41 to 45% (Figure 5B), and the abnormal expansion of epidermal cells was reduced, although twisted root growth was still observed (Figures 5C to 5G). On 50 nM oryzalin, root elongation was rescued in the 35S:HA-PLP3a lines to a smaller but still significant extent, and swelling of root epidermal cells was visibly reduced (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). In conclusion, overexpression of PLP3a partially restored growth in conditions that compromise microtubule assembly, supporting the idea that PLP3 facilitates microtubule formation. A final connection between PLP3a and microtubules came from interaction between PLP3a and β-tubulin. A yeast two-hybrid screen using PLP3a as the bait yielded 89 candidate interactors out of 1.2 million clones from an Arabidopsis cDNA library. Six of these clones corresponded to three different isoforms of Arabidopsis β-tubulin (Figure 6A ). In all cases, the clones contained fusions between the GAL4 activation domain and the C-terminal region of β-tubulin, suggesting that the interaction with PLP3a occurs within this region (amino acids 300 or 302 to stop for TUB2; 237 or 292 to stop for TUB3; 370 to end for TUB4 and 351 to end for TUB5). Because the various β-tubulin isoforms show >98% identity over the C-terminal region, only a TUB2 clone was used to confirm the interaction (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] The results above showed that reduced PLP3 function caused defects in cytokinesis and nuclear division, which are likely due to a general role of PLP3 in microtubule formation. Thus, inhibition of PLP3 function provided an opportunity to investigate how meristem cells respond to defects in microtubule function that would normally trigger cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in animal cells. In 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings with a severe phenotype, the shoot apex was disorganized (Figure 2C). This could be due to a requirement of PLP3a/b for meristem function, consistent with the expression of PLP3a in the meristem and organ primordia, but we could not exclude the possibility that the defective shoot apex was an indirect consequence of earlier defects in embryogenesis. To investigate the role of PLP3a/b specifically in the shoot meristem, we generated plants in which the hairpin construct used to make double-stranded RNA matching PLP3a was controlled by the Op promoter, which is activated by the artificial transcription factor LhG4 (CITATION). Two independent Op:PLP3a(RNAi) plants were then combined with a transgene in which the meristem-expressed STM promoter directs expression of LhG4 (CITATION) in an otherwise wild-type background. Although STM is expressed in all shoot meristems, the STMpro:LhG4 line used here is expressed more strongly in the inflorescence and floral meristems, based on activation of an Op:GFP reporter (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). For simplicity, the combination of STMpro:LhG4 and Op:PLP3a(RNAi) will be called STMpro:PLP3a(RNAi). As seen for the 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) plants, STMpro:PLP3a(RNAi) plants looked normal. By contrast, when two independent STMpro:PLP3a(RNAi) lines were crossed into the plp3b-1 background, a striking phenotype was seen in the inflorescence apex. In both the primary and lateral inflorescences, the floral buds at first appeared to develop normally, but a few days after bolting the meristem and young buds were replaced by what superficially looked like disorganized tissue (Figures 7A and 7B ). A closer look, however, revealed that the floral buds were still recognizable and were organized in the correct phyllotactic pattern, but contained enormously enlarged cells (Figures 7C and 7D). In the largest of the abnormal buds, these cells measured 50 to 100 μm across, in contrast with the 5 to 10 μm cells seen in buds at approximately the same position in the wild type; roughly, this corresponds to an increase in volume of several-hundred fold. DAPI staining revealed that although greatly enlarged, these cells were not highly vacuolated and retained the high ratio of nuclear-to-cytoplasmic volume that is typical of cells in the meristem and early organ primordia (Figures 7E and 7F). The nuclei, however, were also grossly enlarged and branched; because of their irregular shapes, it was not possible to accurately estimate the DNA content in individual nuclei, but the presence of multiple nucleoli indicated that they were likely polyploid. The irregularly shaped nuclei appeared to weave around partial cell walls, suggesting incomplete cytokinesis. Staining of live tissues with FM4-64 confirmed the presence of cell wall stubs (Figures 7G and 7H), which were seen unambiguously in younger buds, before the cells had enlarged to the same extent as those in Figure 7F. As the buds grew, the enlarged cells did not elongate to the well-defined shapes seen in floral organs of wild-type buds, showing that oriented cell enlargement had also been disrupted. [[FIGURE]] In summary, loss of PLP3a/b function targeted to the shoot meristem caused cellular defects comparable to those seen in the cotyledons of 35S:PLP3(RNAi) plp3b-1 seedlings. Although cell division and cellular organization were severely disrupted, growth of the meristem and floral buds persisted. Partial cell walls indicated that cytokinesis had been initiated in these cells, showing that continued cell growth was not due to a switch to the endoreduplication pathway, but persisted through defective mitosis.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Landsberg erecta [Ler] or Columbia) was grown in vermiculite:soil:sand mix at 18°C, on a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION) with the constructs described below, using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C or strain GV3103 RK9 containing pSOUP (for pGREEN derivatives). The plp3b-1 mutation (Ler background) has a Ds insertion in the first exon of At5g66410 and was obtained from the CSHL Genetrap collection (http://genetrap.cshl.org, line GT9152). The STMpro:LhG4 line (Ler) was a gift from Yuval Esched (Weizmann Institute, Tel Aviv, Israel). Arabidopsis lines containing GFP-TUA6 (CITATION) and MAP4-GFP (CITATION) were obtained from Clive Lloyd (John Innes Centre); the 35S:ABD2-GFP line (CITATION) was provided by Karim Sorefan (John Innes Centre). The transgenes and plp3b-1 mutation were combined by cross-pollination. Segregation at the PLP3b locus was monitored by PCR with primer 5′-TCTCTGGCTATCTTAGAGGGATTTTTG-3′ combined with 5′-ACCCGACCGGATCGTATCGGT-3′ (for plp3b-1) or with 5′-TTCTTGACCAGAAGATTCTCCAGC-3′ (for the wild type). Transgenes were genotyped with primer 5′-CTCCTCCTCTGCTAACGTAAGCCTC-3′ combined with 5′-GTGAAATCGTCCTTGGTTCCCAGATCC-3′ (PLP1a-35S:RNAi) or 5′-GAGATAGATTTGTAGAGAGAGACTGGTGATT-3′ (PLP1a-Op:RNAi). To generate PLP3a reporter fusions, a genomic fragment from nucleotide −641 (relative to the start codon) to the end of the coding sequence was amplified from Ler DNA using the primers (5′-AAAACCCGGGAATCGAAAATATACTTCTTTAAC-3′) and (5′-TTTACCATGGAGTCCAGATTCTCTGAAGACCTAAC-3′). This fragment was cloned into pcr2.1-TA (Invitrogen) and fused in-frame with the NcoI site containing the start codons of GFP or GUS. These translational fusions were subcloned into the binary vector pGreen0229 (CITATION) to generate PLP3apro:PLP3a-GFP and PLP3apro:PLP3a-GUS, respectively. To create 35S:PLP3a(RNAi), which contains the 35S promoter directing expression of inverted repeats of PLP3a, the coding sequence for PLP3a was amplified from floral cDNA using the primers (5′-ATGGACCCAGATGCAGTCAAATCGACTCTC-3′) and (5′-CAACTGCTTGATCAGTCAGAATC-3′) and cloned into pcr2.1-TA (Invitrogen). The PLP3a cDNA was subcloned into pENTR4 (Invitrogen) and recombined using the Gateway system (Invitrogen) into pJawohl17-RNAi (gift from Imre Somsich, Max Planck Institute, Koeln, Germany). To create Op:PLP3a(RNAi), the PLP3a inverted repeats from 35S:PLP3a(RNAi) were cloned into the SalI site of pW49 (gift from Phil Wigge, John Innes Centre), modified from pU-6OpΩ (gift from Ian Moore, Oxford University, UK). The resulting Op:PLP33a(RNAi) construct contained six copies of the Op sequence and the tobacco mosaic virus Ω leader, upstream of the PLP3a inverted repeats, followed by the cauliflower mosaic virus terminator. To generate 35S:HA-PLP3a, full-length PLP3a cDNA was amplified using the primers (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTCAGTCAGAATCAGAGTCCAGATTCTCTG-3′) and (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTGGATCCAGATGCAGTCAAATC-3′) and recombined into pDONR201 (Invitrogen), then into pGWB15 (gift from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan), which allows HA tagging of proteins under the 35S promoter. For RNA in situ hybridization (CITATION), digoxygenin-labeled riboprobes were used (full-length cDNA for the sense probe and nucleotides 446 to 693 for the antisense probe).Whole-mount GUS detection was performed as previously described (CITATION); for thin sections, the tissues were treated and sectioned as for the in situ hybridization experiments. For scanning electron microscopy, flowers of 5-week-old plants or cotyledons were mounted on an aluminum stub using O.C.T. compound (BDH Laboratory Supplies). The stub was plunged into liquid nitrogen and transferred onto an ALTO 2500 cryo-transfer system (Gatan) attached to a Zeiss Supra 55 VP FEG scanning electron microscope. Sublimation of surface frost was performed at −95°C for 3 min before sputter coating the sample with platinum for 2 min at 10 mA, −110°C, and imaging at −130°C at 3 kV. Confocal microscopy was performed using a Leica TCS SP2 microscope and the associated software. For imaging nuclei, plant tissues were fixed in PBS containing 4% formaldehyde, washed in PBS, and stained with 1 μg/mL of DAPI (Sigma-Aldrich). Excitation was set at 405 nm (diode laser) and emission filtered to 420 to 500 nm. For imaging cell walls, live tissues were stained with 50 μg/mL FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) and imaged with excitation at 488 nm (He laser) and emission filtered to 600 to 660 nm. For GFP imaging, excitation was at 488 nm and emission between 500 and 550 nm; GFP-negative control tissues gave no signal with the settings used. Images were processed (brightness, color balance, and size) with Adobe Photoshop CS2 9.0 (Adobe Systems). RNA was extracted from adult Arabidopsis Ler plants (rosette leaves, inflorescence, mature flowers, and stem) or from 2-week-old seedlings grown on GM medium (root and cotyledon samples), using TRI reagent (Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Treatment with 10 units of RNase-free DNase I (Amersham) for 30 min at 37°C was followed by a phenol/chloroform extraction. Total RNA (1.5 μg) was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis using oligo(dT) primer and the M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using SYBR Green JumpStart (Sigma-Aldrich) in a DNA engine Opticon2 (MJ Research) following the manufacturer's instructions. Values were normalized using adenosine phosphotransfererase (APT1) as the internal reference. The primers were as follows: for PLP3a, 5′-CAGATTTTTGGTGTTAAAAGATGG-3′ and 5′-ATTCCTTATGGTAGAAATGAC-3′; for PLP3b, 5′-TCTCTGGCTATCTTAGAGGGATTTTTG-3′ and 5′-GTCGCCTTCGCTAACTTCTCGG-3′; and for APT1, 5′-CCTTTCCCTTAAGCTCTG and 5′-TCCCAGAATCGCTAAGATTGCC-3′. The ploidy level of individual flowers or 3-week-old seedlings was measured by flow cytometry as described (CITATION). Wild-type Ler or p35S:HA-PLP3 seeds were surface-sterilized as described (CITATION). Sterile seeds were plated on GM medium (CITATION) containing propyzamide (1 to 3 μM), taxol (0.25 to 2 μM), or oryzalin (25 to 150 nm), and negative controls containing the appropriate amounts of the solvent used for stock solutions (dimethyl sulfoxide). The seeds were stratified at 4°C for 2 d, and then the plates were incubated vertically at 20°C, with 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles for 1 week. After photographing, the root length was measured using the ImageJ program (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). pGBKT7-PLP3 and pGADT7-PLP3 were generated by recombination between pDONR201-PLP3a and pDEST-GBKT7 and pDEST-GADT7 (CITATION). Yeast transformation and screening were performed using standard methods (CITATION). The yeast strain Y187 (MATα, his3-200, trp1-901, ade2-101, ura3-52, leu2-3, 112, gal4[Delta], met, gal80Δ, URA3∷GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1) transformed with pGBKT7-PLP3 was mated with the yeast strain AH109 (MATa, trp1–901 m, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS∷GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, MEL1 GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3∷MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ) transformed with an Arabidopsis inflorescence AD fusion library (from Brendan Davies, Leeds University, UK; CITATION) and selected on /SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers. PLP3a, At3g50960; PLP3b, At5g66410; β-tubulin 5 (TUB5), At1g20010; β-tubulin 2 (TUB2), At5g62690; β-tubulin 3 (TUB3), At5g62700.1; β-tubulin 4 (TUB4), At5g44340; adenosine phosphoribosyl transferase (APT1), At1g27450; yeast phosducin-like protein 1 (PLP1), GenBank 851764; Dictyostelium discoideum phosducin-like protein 3 (PhLP3), GenBank 3385572; human thioredoxin domain containing 9 (Txndc9), GenBank 10190; Caenorhabditis elegans C05D11.3, GenBank 182257. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Molecular Analysis of the plp3b-1 Mutation. Supplemental Figure 2. Effect of Oryzalin and Taxol on 35S:HA-PLP3a Seedlings Grown for 1 Week on Media Containing Oryzalin or Taxol. Supplemental Figure 3. Optical Section through an Inflorescence Tip, Showing the Expression Pattern of Op:GFP Directed by the STMpro:LhG4 Driver in the Inflorescence Meristem and Floral Meristems.
