!~ABS~! A hydrophilic cation‐binding protein, PCaP1, was found to be stably bound to the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis thaliana. PCaP1 was quantified to account for 0.03–0.08% of the crude membrane fractions from roots and shoots. Its homologous protein was detected in several plant species. We investigated the mechanism of membrane association of PCaP1 by transient expression of fusion protein with green fluorescent protein. The amino‐terminal sequence of 27 residues of PCaP1 had a potential to localize the fusion protein with green fluorescent protein to the plasma membrane, and the substitution of Gly at position 2 with Ala resulted in the cytoplasmic localization of PCaP1. When PCaP1 was expressed in the in vitro transcription/translation system with [3H]myristic acid, the label was incorporated into PCaP1, but not into a mutant PCaP1 with Gly2 replaced by Ala. These results indicate that PCaP1 tightly binds to the plasma membrane via N‐myristoylation at Gly2. We examined the binding capacity with phosphatidylinositol phosphates (PtdInsPs), and found that PCaP1 selectively interacts with phosphatidylinositol 3,5‐bisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5‐triphosphate. Competition assay with the N‐terminal peptide and mutational analysis revealed that PCaP1 interacts with these two PtdInsPs at the N‐terminal part. Interaction of PCaP1 with the membrane and PtdInsPs was not altered in the presence of Ca2+ at physiological concentrations. Furthermore, calmodulin associated with PCaP1 in a Ca2+‐dependent manner, and its association weakened the interaction of PCaP1 with PtdInsPs. These results indicate that the N‐terminal part is essential for both N‐myristoylation and interaction with PtdInsPs, and that PCaP1 may be involved in intracellular signalling through interaction with PtdInsPs and calmodulin. 
!~RES~! PCaP1 is composed of 225 amino acids and is rich in Glu (44 residues), Lys (35 residues) and Val (25 residues). The protein has characteristic repeats (IEEKK, VEEKK and VEETKK) (Fig. 1A). To date, no motif has been found for enzymatic function. A possible candidate for N‐myristoylation exists at the N‐terminal region, as described later. PCaP1 has many Ser and Thr residues, and some residues have been estimated to be phosphorylation sites. A homologous protein with high identity with PCaP1 was found in Nicotiana tabacum by blast search (http://blast.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/top‐j.html) (Fig. 1A). This protein was named DREPP1 (developmentally regulated plasma membrane protein) [CITATION]. Although the protein was detected in the plasma membrane and endomembrane fractions, its physiological and biochemical properties are unknown. The N‐terminal halves are highly conserved between the two sequences, suggesting that PCaP1 and its orthologues are not unique to A. thaliana.  [[FIGURE]] The calculated molecular mass of PCaP1 is 24 584; however, the protein was detected with a molecular mass of 36 kDa in an immunoblot with anti‐PCaP1 IgG (Fig. 1B), which was raised against the peptide with internal sequence of PCaP1 (positions 152–166). The difference between the calculated and apparent size may be caused by the amount of dodecyl‐sulfate bound to PCaP1 and/or the structure in SDS. Immunoblotting showed bands in Raphanus sativus (radish, 41 kDa), Brassica rapa (turnip, 42 kDa), Brassica rapa var. glabra Regel (Chinese cabbage, 43 kDa) and Brassica oleracea var. italica (broccoli, 41 kDa) (Fig. 1B). The immunostained bands disappeared when the corresponding peptide was added to the reaction medium. Thus, these bands were orthologues of PCaP1. The low intensity of immunostaining, except for A. thaliana, may be caused by the partial difference in the sequence corresponding to the epitope. We did not examine the membrane preparation from N. tabacum, because the corresponding sequence is not a match with that of PCaP1 (Fig. 1A).  To determine the amount of PCaP1 in tissues and the distribution of PCaP1 in the membrane and soluble fractions (by an immunochemical method), we prepared the recombinant PCaP1 as the standard protein. As shown in Fig. 2A, a highly purified preparation of PCaP1 without any tag was obtained. The protein was analysed by SDS‐PAGE and immunoblotting with an anti‐PCaP1 IgG to obtain a calibration curve (Fig. 2B,C). The crude membrane fractions and soluble fractions were prepared from shoots and roots and subjected to immunoblotting (Fig. 2D). The absolute amount of PCaP1 was calculated using a standard curve. Most PCaP1 was recovered in the membrane fractions, and the PCaP1 amounts in the shoot and root fractions were 0.79 and 0.29 μg·mg−1 of total membrane protein, respectively. There was only a trace amount of PCaP1 in the soluble fractions. Thus, PCaP1 was predominantly localized to the membrane in the tissues, and was present at 0.079% and 0.029% of total membrane proteins in the shoots and roots, respectively.  [[FIGURE]] The stability of the interaction of PCaP1 with the plasma membrane was examined by treating the membranes with several reagents (Fig. 3). PCaP1 was not released from the plasma membrane by treatment with 0.1 m NaCl or 2 m urea. Even in 1 m NaCl, PCaP1 was stably associated with the membrane (data not shown). PCaP1 was partially released from the membrane by treatment with 0.1 m Na2CO3 or 1% Triton X‐100 (Fig. 3). In general, alkaline treatment with Na2CO3 removes peripheral membrane proteins, which are associated with membrane intrinsic proteins, and a mild detergent Triton X‐100 is used to solubilize membrane proteins, but not all membrane integral proteins. Partial resistance to detergent and alkaline treatment indicates that PCaP1 has properties similar to membrane integral proteins.  [[FIGURE]] The stable association of a protein without transmembrane domains with the plasma membrane led us to determine the mode of interaction. The results shown in Fig. 3 suggest that the interaction of PCaP1 with the membrane does not occur electrostatically or by association with transmembrane proteins. Indeed, we failed to isolate a complex of PCaP1 with transmembrane protein(s). Therefore, we examined lipid modification, especially N‐myristoylation, as PCaP1 contains a putative N‐myristoylation consensus sequence, Met‐Gly‐X‐X‐X‐Ser‐Lys, at the N‐termini [CITATION] (Fig. 1).  If the protein is N‐myristoylated, Gly2 will be the site of covalent modification. We prepared a PCaP1 mutant construct, whose Gly2 was replaced by Ala, linked with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at the C‐terminus of PCaP1 (PCaP1G2A‐GFP). We then expressed the GFP fusion proteins in A. thaliana suspension‐cultured cells. We observed more than 25 cells for each construct by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Green fluorescence of wild‐type PCaP1 was clearly detected in the plasma membrane (Fig. 4A). In contrast, the fluorescence of the PCaP1G2A mutant was observed in the cytosol, but not in the plasma membrane (Fig. 4B). This was not caused by the release of the GFP moiety from the fusion protein by proteolytic cleavage in the cells, because free GFP was always localized to the cytosol and nucleus (data not shown). To examine whether the N‐terminal sequence included a possible myristoylation signal, we prepared two additional GFP fusion proteins: one with the first 27‐amino‐acid sequence of PCaP1 (PCaP11−27) and the other with a modified N‐terminal 27‐residue sequence, in which Gly2 was replaced by Ala (PCaP11−27/G2A). Green fluorescence of PCaP11−27‐GFP and PCaP11−27/G2A‐GFP was detected in the plasma membrane and cytosol, respectively (Fig. 4C,D). The results indicate that the N‐terminal part with 27 residues has the ability to localize the protein to the plasma membrane, and that Gly2 is essential for plasma membrane localization.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm the N‐myristoylation of PCaP1, we carried out an in vitro transcription/translation assay in the presence of [3H]myristic acid, using rabbit reticulocyte lysate, which contained N‐myristoyltransferase activity [CITATION]. Because N‐myristoylation occurs cotranslationally, the experiments were carried out in a cell‐free transcription/translation system. CBL4 (also known as SOS3), a typical myristoylated protein, was synthesized as a 28 kDa protein, as detected by immunoblotting in this system, and was labelled with [3H]myristic acid as shown by fluorography (Fig. 5). CBL4 is myristoylated at Gly2 in the N‐terminal sequence (MGCSVSKKK) and functions as an EF‐hand‐type Ca2+‐binding protein [CITATION]. When the Gly residue was replaced by Ala, the mutant CBL4 (CBL4G2A) did not incorporate [3H]myristic acid. Both PCaP1 and its variant (PCaP1G2A) were translated and detected as 36 kDa proteins by immunoblotting. Radioactive [3H]myristic acid was incorporated into PCaP1, but not into PCaP1G2A (Fig. 5). These results indicate that PCaP1 is myristoylated at Gly2.  [[FIGURE]] The N‐terminal part of PCaP1 is rich in Lys and aromatic (Tyr, Trp and Phe) residues (Fig. 1A). These characteristic sequences with clusters of basic/aromatic residues have been found in domains for interaction with PtdInsPs [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION].  We determined the binding nature of PCaP1 using PIP Strips™, which were spotted with a series of PtdInsPs (Fig. 6A). PCaP1 bound to phosphatidylinositol 3,4‐bisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4)P2], PtdIns(3,5)P2, PtdIns(4,5)P2 and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5‐triphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3], and weakly with PtdIns(3)P, PtdIns(4)P and PtdIns(5)P. The protein did not associate with lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, sphingosine 1‐phosphate, phosphatidic acid or phosphatidylserine. Next, we examined the effect of calcium on these properties, because PCaP1 has been demonstrated to bind calcium [CITATION]. The selectivity of binding was not changed by the addition of calcium to the reaction mixture at 4 μm (Fig. 6B). Potassium did not affect the intensity or selectivity, even at 10 mm, but magnesium weakened the affinity but not the selectivity.  [[FIGURE]] Further quantitative analysis was performed using a PIP Array™ (Fig. 6C). PCaP1 bound PtdInsPs in a concentration‐dependent manner (Fig. 6D). PCaP1 had a high affinity for PtdIns(3,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, and bound even at 3.1 pmol on the sheet. The affinity for PtdIns(3,4)P2 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 was relatively low. We examined the binding selectivity of PCaP1 using an array sheet containing PtdIns(3,5)P2, PtdIns(3,4)P2 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 (spotted by ourselves; data not shown), because there was a difference in the signal strength for the three PtdInsP2 between the PIP Strips™ and PIP Array™ (Fig. 6A–C). This careful assay confirmed the high affinity of PCaP1 for PtdIns(3,5)P2, but not for PtdIns(3,4)P2 or PtdIns(4,5)P2. The results indicated that PCaP1 has an ability to bind selectively to PtdIns(3,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 amongst the various PtdInsPs. It should be noted that a (His)6 tag did not affect the interaction of PCaP1 with PtdInsPs (data not shown). At present, we cannot deny the weak interaction with PtdIns(3,4)P2 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 in this in vitro assay system.  In general, the polybasic residue region is a good candidate for binding to PtdInsPs. The N‐terminal part is the most basic region, containing seven Lys residues. Thus, we carried out a competition assay of PtdInsP binding using a peptide that corresponds to the N‐terminal part (positions 2–24) (Fig. 7E). The purified PCaP1 bound PtdInsP2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3. The binding intensity was decreased markedly in the presence of the PCaP12−24 peptide (Fig. 7A,B), suggesting that PCaP1 binds PtdInsPs at the N‐terminal region. This possibility was confirmed by comparison of the binding intensity to PtdInsPs of the wild‐type and N‐terminal truncated protein Δ2‐25PCaP1/His (Fig. 7E). The truncated form was slightly smaller than the wild‐type PCaP1 and highly purified, as shown in Fig. 7F. This Δ2‐25PCaP1/His mutant protein gave no signal on either the PIP Strips™ or PIP Array™ (Fig. 7C,D).  [[FIGURE]] PCaP1 has been demonstrated to bind calcium by the 45Ca‐overlay assay [CITATION]. Thus, we examined the effect of calcium on the association of PCaP1 with the plasma membrane. The purified plasma membranes did not release PCaP1, even in the presence of 10 mm CaCl2 (Fig. 8A). Thus, calcium cannot be an effector or regulator for dissociation/association of PCaP1 from the membrane. As shown in the PIP Array™ test (Fig. 8B), calcium did not affect the interaction with PtdInsPs. The selectivity to PtdInsPs was unchanged and the interaction with PtdIns(3,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 was retained up to 100 μm CaCl2. The affinity was decreased strongly in 1 mm Ca2+ and lost at 5 mm, concentrations way above the physiological concentration. Thus, binding to the plasma membrane and PtdInsPs may be stable in living cells at a physiological concentration of 0.1 μm [CITATION, CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] There is no motif of enzymatic function in PCaP1. In order to understand the physiological role of a non‐enzymatic protein, it is worth surveying the partner of the interaction protein. We examined the interaction of PCaP1 with CaM. When purified recombinant PCaP1 was incubated with CaM‐agarose, PCaP1 bound to CaM‐agarose, especially in the presence of Ca2+, and no PCaP1 was recovered in the unbound fraction or wash fraction (Fig. 9A, −CaM). This interaction was competitively inhibited by free CaM in the incubation medium (Fig. 9A, +CaM). The bound PCaP1 was released and eluted by an SDS solution (Fig. 9B). When free calcium was removed from the incubation medium by EGTA, no PCaP1 was bound to CaM‐ agarose (Fig. 9B). The results indicate that PCaP1 associates with CaM in a calcium‐dependent manner. The membrane association of PCaP1 was not affected by CaM, even in the presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 9C). However, CaM suppressed the interaction of PCaP1 with PtdInsPs in the presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 9D); the amount of PCaP1 bound to PtdInsPs was decreased to 25% as shown by the intensity of the PCaP1 signal in the PIP Array™ test. These results indicate that CaM binds with PCaP1 and affects the association of PCaP1 with PtdInsPs in a calcium‐dependent manner.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana (ecotype Col‐0) were grown on sterile gel plates for 2 weeks at 22 °C under continuous light. The gel plates contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt, 2.5 mm 2‐(N‐morpholino) ethanesulfonate/KOH, pH 5.7, 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.25% Gellangum (Wako Pure Chemicals, Osaka, Japan) (1× MS‐sucrose). A. thaliana suspension‐cultured cells (also known as ‘Deep’ cells) were a kind gift from Masaaki Umeda (University of Tokyo, Japan). The cells were cultured in MS medium at 22 °C in the dark. Other plants [Raphanus sativus (radish), Brassica rapa (turnip), Brassica rapa L. var. glabra Regel (Chinese cabbage) and Brassica oleracea var. italica (broccoli)] were purchased from a market.  Two‐week‐old A. thaliana plants were used for membrane fractionation [CITATION, CITATION]. The tissue homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth (EMD Bioscience, Darmstadt, Germany) and centrifuged at 10 000 g for 10 min. The supernatant was centrifuged at 100 000 g for 30 min. The pellet obtained was suspended in 50 mm Tris/acetate buffer, pH 7.5, containing 5% glycerol and 1 mm dithiothreitol, and used as a crude membrane fraction. Plasma membranes were isolated from the crude membranes with an aqueous two‐phase partitioning system [CITATION, CITATION]. Crude membranes were prepared from taproots of R. sativus and B. rapa, petioles of B. rapa var. glabra Regel and shoots of B. oleracea var. italica by the same methods, and used for immunoblotting.  Three types of recombinant PCaP1 protein were prepared, namely the full‐length PCaP1 (PCaP1), PCaP1 with a (His)6 tag at the C‐terminus (PCaP1/His) and PCaP1 that lacked the 24 N‐terminal residues, except for the first Met, and was tagged with (His)6 at the C‐terminus (Δ2‐25PCaP1/His). A construct for PCaP1/His was prepared and introduced into E. coli BL21(DE3) using the pET23b expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA), as described previously [CITATION]. The expression vector, pET/ PCaP1/His, was directly amplified by PCR with a pair of PCaP1‐specific primers (forward, 5′‐TAAGCGGCCGCACTCGAG‐3′; reverse, 5′‐AGGCTTTGGTGGTTCAG CC‐3′). PCR was performed using KOD‐Plus DNA polymerase (TOYOBO, Osaka, Japan). The amplified DNA fragment (pET/PCaP1) was self‐ligated and subjected to nucleotide sequencing. The vector, pET/PCaP1, was then directly amplified by PCR with a pair of primers (forward, 5′‐CACCACCACCACCAGATGGGTTACTGGAATTCCA AG‐3′; reverse, 5′‐GTGGTGTTTCATATGTATATCTCCT TCTTAAAGTTAAAC‐3′; italic type shows the His‐tag adaptor sites). After confirmation of the nucleotide sequences of the pET/His/PCaP1 obtained, the expression vector was introduced into E. coli BL21(DE3) (Novagen). Transformants were grown in Luria–Bertani (LB) broth for 2 h at 25 °C after induction with 1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside. For Δ2‐25PCaP1, the DNA construct was prepared from the pET vector possessing pET/ PCaP1/His by PCR with a pair of specific primers (forward, 5′‐GCTGCTGAAGCTACCAAGAC‐3′; reverse, 5′‐CATATGTATATCTCCTTCTTAAAG‐3′). Transformants of E. coli BL21(DE3) were grown in LB broth at 37 °C and treated with 1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside for 3 h. The cells were then harvested and used for protein purification.  E. coli cells expressing PCaP1/His, Δ2‐25PCaP1/His and His/PCaP1 were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in 20 mm Tris/acetate, pH 7.5, containing 20% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1 mg·mL−1 DNase I, 0.2 mg·mL−1 lysozyme, 10 mm 2‐mercaptoethanol and protein inhibitor cocktail (0.5× Complete, EDTA‐free) (Roche Applied Science, Mannheim, Germany). The cells were disrupted by sonication for 12.5 min on ice. After removal of cell debris by centrifugation at 104 000 g for 30 min, the supernatant was applied to a nickel nitrilotriacetic acid Superflow column (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) equilibrated with 20 mm imidazole containing 20 mm Tris/acetate, pH 7.5, 20% (v/v) glycerol and 2 m NaCl. Recombinant PCaP1 proteins tagged with (His)6 were eluted with 300 mm imidazole containing 20 mm Tris‐acetate, pH 7.5, and 2 m NaCl. The content of recombinant protein was measured by immunoblotting with anti‐PCaP1 IgG. The peak content fractions were collected and applied to a HiTrap Phenyl HP column (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ, USA) equilibrated with 20 mm Tris/acetate, pH 7.5, and 2 m NaCl. The His‐tagged PCaP1 proteins were recovered in the flow‐through fraction, desalted and used as the purified proteins. To prepare PCaP1, we removed the (His)6 tag from His/PCaP1 by treatment with TAGZyme (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Then, PCaP1 and PCaP1/His were applied to a column (2.6 × 60 cm) of Sephacryl S‐300 HR (GE Healthcare). The peak content fractions were collected and used as the purified preparations.  The protein concentration was determined using a bicinchoninic acid protein assay reagent kit (Pierce Biotechnology, Rockford, CA, USA) [CITATION]. Protein samples were subjected to SDS‐PAGE on a 12.5% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel and immunoblotting. The blots were visualized with horseradish peroxidase‐coupled protein A and western blotting detection reagents (GE Healthcare).  The purified plasma membranes were incubated with 0.1 m NaCl, 2 m urea, 0.1 m Na2CO3 or 1% Triton X‐100 at room temperature for 20 min to release PCaP1 protein from the membrane. The suspensions were centrifuged at 100 000 g for 15 min to separate the soluble fraction from the membrane fraction. Both fractions were subjected to immunoblotting with polyclonal antibody to PCaP1, which was prepared previously [CITATION].  The purified plasma membranes were incubated with CaCl2 at room temperature for 20 min, and then centrifuged at 100 000 g for 15 min to determine the effect of calcium on the association of PCaP1 with the plasma membrane. In some cases, the plasma membranes were incubated with 0.1 mm CaCl2 and 0.167 mg·mL−1 CaM (bovine brain; Wako Pure Chemicals) at room temperature for 20 min, followed by centrifugation at 100 000 g for 15 min, to determine the effect of calcium on the association of PCaP1 with the plasma membrane. As a control experiment, EGTA was added to the suspension to remove free Ca2+.  PCaP1 linked to GFP was prepared, and the fusion protein was transiently expressed using pENTR/D‐TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and pUGWB5 (developed by T. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan), as described previously [CITATION]. GFP protein was linked to the C‐terminus of PCaP1 (PCaP1‐GFP). Three other GFP fusion constructs were prepared: with the PCaP1 construct with Gly2 replaced by Ala (PCaP1G2A‐GFP), with the N‐terminal 27‐residue sequence (PCaP11−27‐GFP) and with the PCaP11−27 peptide with Gly2 replaced by Ala (PCaP11−27/G2A‐GFP). The PCR primers for pUGWB5‐PCaP11−27‐GFP were 5′‐ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAG‐3′ (forward) and 5′‐AGCAGCAGCAGCCTTCTTAG‐3′ (reverse). pUGWB5‐PCaP1G2A‐GFP and pUGWB5‐PCaP11−27/G2A‐GFP were generated from pUGWB5‐PCaP1‐GFP and pUGWB5‐PCaP11−27‐GFP, respectively, by site‐directed mutagenesis [CITATION], with a primer set of 5′‐ATGGCTTACTGGAATTCCAAG‐3′ (forward; italic type, site‐directed mutation site) and 5′‐AGGCTTTGGT GGTTCAGCC‐3′ (reverse).  The four constructs of GFP fusion proteins (PCaP1‐GFP, PCaP1G2A‐GFP, PCaP11−27‐GFP and PCaP11−27/G2A‐GFP) were introduced and expressed in A. thaliana suspension‐cultured cells, as described previously [CITATION]. GFP fluorescence was visualized with a Fluoview FV500 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) using a set of BA465–495 (excitation) and BA505–550 (emission) filters.  In vitro transcription and translation were performed using the TNT T7 Quick coupled transcription/translation system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Constructs for PCaP1, PCaP1G2A, CBL4 and CBL4G2A were prepared using the vector pBS (Promega). The constructs obtained were transcribed and translated in a TNT Quick master mix containing rabbit reticulocyte lysate in a single test tube. A. thaliana CBL4 and its modified protein with the substitution of Gly2 with Ala (SOSG2A) were used as controls. [3H]Myristic acid (1.96 × 103 TBq·mol−1) (GE Healthcare) was dried by heating at 65 °C for 40 min, suspended in distilled water and then added to the reaction medium at a final concentration of 37 kBq·μL−1. After reaction at 30 °C for 60 min, aliquots were subjected to SDS‐PAGE. The gel was treated with Amplify (GE Healthcare). The dried gel was contacted with an X‐ray film (RX‐U type; Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan) and packed in a TranScreen (Kodak, Rochester, NY, USA). After incubation for 3 weeks at −80 °C, the X‐ray film was developed.  Sheets of PIP Strips™ (Echelon Biosciences, Salt Lake City, UT, USA) and PIP Array™ (new version after 2004) (Echelon Biosciences) were treated with 10 mm Tris/HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl and 0.1% (w/v) Tween 20 (TBST), supplemented with 3% fatty acid‐free BSA, for 1 h at 25 °C to block the sheets. The sheets were incubated for 16 h with 50 ng·mL−1 recombinant PCaP1 in TBST at 4 °C, and then washed with TBST and immunoblotted with anti‐PCaP1 IgG. The blots were then visualized with horseradish peroxidase‐coupled protein A and western blotting detection reagents (GE Healthcare, Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan). For some experiments with PIP Strips™, Ca2+, Mg2+ or K+ was added to the reaction medium at a concentration of 4 μm. To evaluate the role of the N‐terminal sequence on the lipid‐binding capacity, we prepared N‐terminal truncated PCaP1 (Δ2‐25PCaP1) and subjected it to the lipid‐binding assay as described above. The effect of CaM on the interaction of PCaP1 with PtdInsPs was also examined. Recombinant PCaP1 (50 ng·mL−1) was incubated with 2.4 μg·mL−1 CaM in the presence of 0.1 mm CaCl2 for the PIP Strips™ assay.  The binding property of CaM was assessed using CaM‐agarose (Sigma‐Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA). Recombinant PCaP1 (50 ng·mL−1) was incubated with 30 μL of CaM‐agarose suspended in 20 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl and 0.5 mm CaCl2 [CITATION]. After centrifugation at 1600 g for 2 min, the supernatant was removed as an unbound fraction. CaM‐agarose was washed three times with the same buffer, and the proteins bound to CaM‐agarose were eluted with SDS sample buffer containing 2% SDS. Both bound and unbound fractions were analysed by SDS‐PAGE and immunoblotting. 
