!~ABS~! The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD54 gene has critical roles in DNA double-strand break repair, homologous recombination, and gene targeting. Previous results show that the yeast gene enhances gene targeting when expressed in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this work we address the trans-species compatibility of Rad54 functions. We show that overexpression of yeast RAD54 in Arabidopsis enhances DNA damage resistance severalfold. Thus, the yeast gene is active in the Arabidopsis homologous-recombination repair system. Moreover, we have identified an A. thaliana ortholog of yeast RAD54, named AtRAD54. This gene, with close sequence similarity to RAD54, complements methylmethane sulfonate (MMS) sensitivity but not UV sensitivity or gene targeting defects of rad54Δ mutant yeast cells. Overexpression of AtRAD54 in Arabidopsis leads to enhanced resistance to DNA damage. This gene's assignment as a RAD54 ortholog is further supported by the interaction of AtRad54 with AtRad51 and the interactions between alien proteins (i.e., yeast Rad54 with AtRAD51 and yeast Rad51 with AtRad54) in a yeast two-hybrid experiment. These interactions hint at the molecular nature of this interkingdom complementation, although the stronger effect of the yeast Rad54 in plants than AtRad54 in yeast might be explained by an ability of the Rad54 protein to act alone, independently of its interaction with Rad51.
!~RES~! A BLAST search (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) on the Arabidopsis genome using the sequence of yeast Rad54 protein (blastp) yielded ∼40 significant hits. These hits included all the previously analyzed RAD54-related-SWI2/SNF2 Arabidopsis genes (CITATION). The Arabidopsis gene At3g19210 had the highest resemblance of its predicted protein sequence to the yeast Rad54 protein (E score value, E−120), exceeding by far the other hits. We cloned the cDNA of this gene by PCR (as described below and in materials and methods) along with that of another member of the family (At5g63950, with significance score E−59 for resemblance of the predicted protein to that of yeast Rad54). Using the published genomic sequence of A. thaliana (TAIR) (http://www.arabidopsis.org/), we designed primers for cloning the cDNA of the gene At3g19210, by RT–PCR on a two-leaf-stage cDNA library. The cDNA thus obtained was sequenced and the sequence indicated that the gene comprises an open reading frame (ORF) of 2730 bp. The ORF of At3g19210 encodes a 910-amino-acid (aa) protein; i.e., it is 58 aa longer than the length predicted by TAIR. At3g19210 is composed of 21 exons and 20 introns (Figure 1A), the boundaries of which are slightly different from the predicted gene structure (NM_112808). The ORF's full sequence is provided in supplemental Figure 1. This ORF's sequence is identical to that previously published (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Nine domains that are conserved among the Arabidopsis Swi2/Snf2 proteins were identified in At3g19210 by combining results obtained by three different bioinformatics methods (CITATION). Eight of these domains were similar in sequence and in order to the yeast Rad54 protein (Figure 1B). The yeast Rad54 protein and the protein encoded by At3g19210 show 38% identity and 54% similarity. The domains shared by these two proteins are similar among the Arabidopsis Rad54-like proteins. These include domains a, b, c, f, g, and h that are homologous to the Snf2-helicase-like domain. Domain e is homologous to a DNA-dependent ATPase, with a very strong DEAH signature (CITATION). The function of domain d is still unknown. Another functionally important domain in the yeast gene is the region necessary for the interaction between Rad54 and Rad51 that is located within the NH2-terminal 115 residues (CITATION). This region is not conserved in any of the plant Rad54-like proteins (Figure 1B). The human ortholog of yeast RAD54 has been shown to partly complement the DNA repair defect of yeast rad54Δ cells (CITATION). To test whether members of the A. thaliana RAD54-like gene family are able to similarly function as a Rad54 substitute, we introduced cDNA constructs of two such genes into rad54Δ cells and tested for complementation of their DNA repair defect. This defect prevents rad54Δ cells from growing on media containing MMS, a mutagen that damages DNA (CITATION). The rad54Δ mutants are also more sensitive to UV radiation than wild-type cells, because of the involvement of Rad54 in the repair of some UV-damaged DNA molecules (CITATION; CITATION). Two Arabidopsis genes were cloned as cDNAs and transferred to a yeast expression vector with the inducible promoter of the gene GAL1: At3g19210, which is the A. thaliana gene closest to yeast RAD54, and At5g63950, another gene from the same SWI2/SNF2 family in Arabidopsis, but more distantly related to yeast RAD54. The GAL1 promoter is active only in the presence of galactose in the medium. As shown in Figure 2, the plant gene At3g19210 remedies the inability of rad54Δ cells to grow on MMS plates; yeast cells containing the plant gene grew (divided) on galactose-containing MMS medium and not on glucose MMS medium, unlike the original rad54Δ cells, which did not grow on either medium. At3g19210 was thus named AtRAD54, being a true ortholog of yeast RAD54. RT–PCR (data not shown) and Western analyses (Figure 2g) both confirmed that the AtRAD54 cDNA and protein were specifically expressed in medium containing galactose but not in a medium containing glucose. The other plant gene, At5g63950, did not complement the MMS sensitivity of rad54Δ cells in similar experiments (Figure 2), suggesting that the ability to alleviate the repair deficiency of rad54Δ is not a general property of SWI2/SNF2 Arabidopsis genes but rather a specific property of AtRAD54.  [[FIGURE]] We also tested these two plant genes for complementation of the repair deficiency of rad54Δ cells following UV radiation. Both genes, At3g19210 and At5g63950, did not complement the UV repair defect of the yeast rad54Δ cells (Figure 3).  [[FIGURE]] It was previously shown that rad54Δ cells of budding yeast are defective in targeted integration of DNA fragments introduced by transfection (CITATION), probably due to the defect in the homologous recombination pathway. We have tested whether AtRAD54 complements the rad54Δ defect in this respect. The assay was based on integration of a fragment from plasmid pRS404 into the genome of yeast strains containing another plasmid, pRS426 (see materials and methods). The results in Figure 4 show that the integration efficiency of the fragment in strain rad54Δ + pRS426 was reduced to 0.1% compared to 3.9% in strain yPH87 + pRS424 (wild type). The plasmid harboring ScRAD54 partially rescued the rad54Δ deficiency by increasing the integration efficiency up to 1.4%. Thus, the rad54Δ mutation is indeed responsible for the low integration frequency in the yeast mutant, as originally proposed by CITATION. However, neither AtRAD54 nor At5g63950 complemented the DNA integration defect of rad54Δ yeast cells. We also tested whether the presence of the AtRAD54 gene elevated the generation of His+ colonies in a heterozygous heteroallelic his4B/his4X strain. This strain harbors a different mutation on each allele of HIS4. A recombination event between the two mutation sites results in a functional allele and generation of a His+ colony. Therefore an elevation in the level of His+ colony generation might indicate a functional role of the gene in HR (see CITATION and materials and methods). The plant AtRAD54 gene did not cause elevation of the level of His+ colonies when transformed into either a rad54Δ strain or a RAD54 strain (data not shown). It thus seems that the plant ortholog AtRAD54 complements some DNA repair deficiencies in rad54Δ yeast cells but does not fully replace the gene in all aspects of recombination/repair.  [[FIGURE]] To test functioning of yeast Rad54 in Arabidopsis, we examined whether expression of RAD54 improved resistance of Arabidopsis plants to ionizing radiation. We subcloned the yeast RAD54 into a binary vector, under the regulation of the 35S promoter and introduced it into wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Seeds of independently derived transgenic plants expressing the pHS-35SRAD54 construct (all seedlings derived from these seeds expressed the yeast RAD54 mRNA, as shown in supplemental Figure 2 by an RT–PCR assay) were γ-irradiated and allowed to germinate (Figure 5A). Seeds of the transgenic plants were more resistant to γ-irradiation than their wild-type progenitors, as shown by the increased fraction of seedlings developing to the true-leaves stage following exposure to 40 krad (Figure 5B): 7.7% for the wild type vs. 14% (plant no. 6) to 96% (plant no. 5) in plants expressing the yeast RAD54 gene. Irradiation of 60 krad resulted in total death of progeny of the wild-type plants whereas seedlings of transgenic plant nos. 2, 5, and 8 (which showed the highest resistance to 40 krad) were relatively resistant to 60 krad, with 6.8, 4.4, and 9% of seedlings developing two true leaves or more, respectively (Figure 5C). The differences in radiation resistance between independent transgenic plants (or their seedling progeny) might be due to position effects (resulting from the different integration sites of the yeast gene) or to the number of copies integrated.  [[FIGURE]] In previous work (CITATION), it was shown that expression of yeast RAD54 in Arabidopsis cells causes increases of the rates of targeted (homologous) integration by two orders of magnitude. Therefore, we conclude that in the plant context yeast Rad54 might increase the efficiency of the plant homologous recombination system and that the yeast protein is very active in this alien context, possibly replacing or acting in addition to the native AtRAD54. As it is known that the yeast Rad54 protein interacts with Rad51 in a yeast two-hybrid system (CITATION), we examined whether the plant protein AtRad54 interacts similarly with the plant AtRad51 and whether this interaction is conserved between proteins of the two species. Use was made of the Two-Hybrid kit (Clontech). We found (as shown in Figure 6) that yeast Rad54 interacted with AtRad51, and that AtRad54 interacted with yeast Rad51. The plant proteins AtRad54 and AtRad51 also showed significant interaction, as did their yeast homologs Rad54 and Rad51 (as previously shown by CITATION and by CITATION). These results (Figure 6) support the designation of AtRAD54 as the true ortholog of yeast RAD54 and show that the molecular function of the RAD54 homologs is conserved across different kingdoms.  [[FIGURE]] Following the identification of At3g19210 as a RAD54 ortholog, we wanted to further test the function of this gene in planta, by suppressing or increasing its activity. RNAi was previously reported to downregulate the plant native gene (CITATION). Here, overexpression of the plant gene was performed by fusing it to a strong promoter, with the aim of producing high resistance/tolerance to DNA damage. Sensitivity to γ-irradiation was scored as the fraction of seedlings with two or more true leaves (resistant seedlings). Seedlings with cotyledons only or with only one true leaf were considered as sensitive to DNA damage. In the wild type, 7% of the 30-krad irradiated seeds developed as resistant seedlings compared to <2% for the RNAi line in which AtRAD54 was silenced (CITATION). The RNAi line was also more sensitive than the wild-type line to UV radiation (data not shown). For overexpression of AtRAD54, AtRAD54 cDNA was cloned into a binary vector, under the regulation of the 35S promoter, and introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Seeds of independently derived transgenic plants expressing the pHS-35SAtRAD54 cDNA construct (Figure 7) were γ-irradiated prior to sowing. Seeds of the transgenic plants were more resistant to γ-irradiation than their wild-type progenitors when exposed to 40 krad (Figure 7). Irradiation of wild-type plants with 40 krad resulted in 0.65% of seedlings with two or more true leaves, whereas plants overexpressing AtRAD54 cDNA showed much higher fractions of resistant seedlings, ranging from 11.1% (plant no. 3) to 30.4% (plant no. 2) (Figure 7). The differences in radiation resistance between independent transgenic plants (or their seedling progeny) might be due to position effects or to the number of copies of the introduced gene. Thus, overexpression of AtRAD54 enhances resistance of Arabidopsis seedlings to γ-radiation. It is worth noting that such an overexpression did not enhance homologous recombination rates in another work (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The plant gene At3g19210, in its protein-coding form (without introns), was cloned by PCR from cDNA of two-leaf-stage plants. Primers were designed according to the predicted sequence of the gene. (primer 1, 5′-CGGGATCCATGGAGGAAGAAGATGAAGAGATCT; primer 2, 5′-CGGAATTCTCATACAAAATCATCATCGTGATTT). The primers contained BamHI restriction sites. The PCR product was subcloned into the BamHI restriction site in the pRS426-gal1p (Gal1 promoter, a galactose inducible promoter) yeast expression vector (CITATION). Arabidopsis gene At5g63950 cDNA was ordered from SALK seed bank (clone no. R21465, see http://signal.salk.edu/index.html) and cloned directly into the pMBLArt binary vector. For expression in yeast, the cDNA was cut from the plasmid using EcoRI and cloned into a pDrive cloning vector using a PCR cloning kit (QIAGEN). The fragment was cut using EcoRI, and recloned into the pRS426-gal1p plasmid using the same site. A control gene (RAD54 of S. cerevisiae) was amplified with large upstream and downstream regions, cut using SpeI and SalI and cloned into pRS426 and pRS426-gal1p plasmids, into the same restriction sites. Both vectors contained the URA3 marker (all inserts were verified by sequencing). The vectors were transformed into yeast cells using the LiAc method (CITATION). Strain MKP15, used for the complementation experiments, was of YPH background, with the rad54Δ mutation inserted into strain YPH857 by the one-step replacement method (CITATION); MKP15 has the genotype MATa, can1r, leu2, ade2, trp1, ura3, his3, rad54Δ∷HIS3. For the intragenic recombination assay we used the following strains: OH1X2: MATa/MATα, ho:LYS2/ho:LYS2, lys2/lys2, ura3/ura3, ADE2/ade2, TRP1/trp1, leu2∷hisG/leu2∷hisG, his4B∷LEU2/his4X∷LEU2-BamHI-ura3 (mutated on 5-FOA). AA9X10: MATa/MATα, ho:LYS2/ho:LYS2, lys2/lys2, rad54∷ura3 (mutated on 5-FOA)/ rad54∷ura3 (mutated on 5-FOA), ura3/ura3, leu2∷hisG/leu2∷hisG, his4B:LEU2/his4X∷LEU2-BamHI-ura3 (mutated on 5-FOA). For the two-hybrid experiment we used Clontech (Mountain View, CA) strain AH109. MMS sensitivity was tested by growing yeast cells of strains MKP15 and YPH857 to logarithmic phase in liquid SC −Ura medium (either with glucose or with galactose), counting, and plating in serial dilutions on SC +glucose +MMS (0.06%), SC +galactose +MMS (0.06%), or on complete (SC) medium with glucose (CITATION). After 4 days incubation at 30°, appearance of colonies was assayed and recorded. UV sensitivity was tested by growing yeast cells of the above two strains to logarithmic phase in liquid SC −Ura medium (either with glucose or with galactose), counting them, and plating on SC, or SC +galactose plates. After 2 hr at 30°, the plates were irradiated with UV (0.85 J/m2/sec, standard General Electric 15-watt lamp) for the indicated times, wrapped immediately in aluminum foil (to prevent photorepair), and incubated at 30° for 4 days, after which colonies were counted. A PvuI-AatII fragment from the plasmid pRS404, containing the TRP1 marker and flanking sequences was either cut from the plasmid or amplified by PCR (the results of the two methods were indistinguishable) and transformed into recipient cells also containing URA3 2μ plasmids, either pRS426 or pRS426-Gal1p (a galactose inducible promoter) with the yeast or plant RAD54 genes. To prevent plasmid loss, yeast cells were grown on medium lacking uracil (SC −Ura). The DNA fragment (500 ng) was transfected into yeast cells (2 × 107/ml) of strains MKP15 and YPH857 by the LiAc method (CITATION). Before plating the cells, the cloned genes on the host plasmids were induced by incubating the cells in SC −Ura +galactose liquid medium for 60 min. The cells were subsequently plated on selective plates (either SC −Trp or SC −Trp +galactose). After 4 days of incubation at 30°, the number of emerging colonies was recorded. Fifty plates were analyzed for every strain. To evaluate transformation efficiency of each strain, the same yeast strains were transformed with 50 ng of uncut DNA of the plasmid pRS424, also harboring the TRP1 marker and plated on SC −Trp medium. The relative integration efficiency of each strain was calculated by dividing the number of colonies obtained in the transformation with the fragment by the number of colonies in the transformation with the uncut plasmid (pRS424), adjusted to the amounts of DNA used. Diploid yeast cells containing the heteroallelic his4B/his4X mutations were transformed either with AtRAD54 or with the yeast RAD54 harboring plasmids (mentioned above, pRS426-gal1p-AtRAD54 and pRS426-ScRAD54). Recombination was monitored by the appearance of His+ colonies on SC −His +Glucose or SC −His +galactose plates. To express the full length of the S. cerevisiae gene RAD54 in Arabidopsis, we amplified it with primers containing the EcoRI and XbaI sites, cloned it into corresponding sites on the pArt7 vector (CITATION), isolated the NotI insert from this construct, and cloned it into the same site of the pMBLArt binary vector, containing gluphosinate (BASTA) plant resistance, giving rise to plasmid pHS-35SRAD54. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation was done in wild-type Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia). Plant transformation was done by floral dipping and transformants (T0) were selected by BASTA selection. T0 plants were grown to maturity and the resulting T1 seeds were used for further analysis. To test γ-irradiation sensitivity of seedlings, seeds were surface sterilized, soaked overnight in distilled water at 4°, and then irradiated by a dose of 30 or 40 krad, provided by a 60Co source from a Gammabeam 150 machine (Nordion, Kanata, Ontario, Canada) at the Radiation unit of the Weizmann Institute of Science. Plants were grown on 1/2 MS medium + 2% sucrose for 10 days. Growth conditions were 16 hr of light/day, at 25°. Seedlings were considered resistant to γ-irradiation if they developed at least two true leaves following irradiation, whereas sensitive seedlings had no true leaves or only one. All the seeds used in this experiment (transgenic plants or WT), when not irradiated, had germination rates >99%. This assay is similar to that described elsewhere (CITATION). Use was made of the Two-Hybrid kit (Clontech). Bait plasmid pAS1 was used to clone AtRAD54 (in XhoI sites, keeping correct orientation of the genes with respect to the vector) and yeast RAD54 (in the NcoI and BamHI restriction sites). Prey plasmid pACT was used to clone both AtRAD51 (CITATION) and yeast RAD51 (with restriction sites XhoI and BamHI). Plasmids pACT containing yeast RAD51 and pAS1 containing AtRAD54 were cotransformed into wild-type AH109 yeast cells using the LiAc method (CITATION). Similarly, pAS1 containing yeast RAD54 and pACT containing AtRAD51 were cotransformed into the same yeast cells. We also cotransformed into yeast AtRAD51 in pACT together with AtRAD54 in pAS1 and yeast RAD51 on pACT together with yeast RAD54 on pAS1, as positive controls. Interaction between each pair of protein-coding plasmids was monitored by two steps of plate selection, first on SC −Leu −Trp medium, followed by SC −Leu −Trp −His +3AT [the latter is a potent histidine uptake antagonist, 3-amino-Triazole (Sigma, 5 mm final concentration)]. To express the AtRAD54 cDNA in plants, we isolated it from the pRS426 plasmid harboring the AtRAD54 cDNA (previously cloned for yeast-expression purposes), using BamHI restriction nuclease and cloned it into the same sites of the pArt7 vector. The new insert was isolated by NotI and cloned into the same site of the pMBLArt binary vector, giving rise to plasmid pHS-35SAtRAD54. RNA was extracted from mid-log-phase yeast cells using the RNeasy kit (QIAGEN). RT was performed by using the Superscript II enzyme (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Results were analyzed using standard 1% agarose TBE gel. Extraction of proteins from yeast cells was done according to Knop et al. (1999), as was Western blotting. As first antibody we used the anti-AtRad54 antibody described in CITATION (kindly donated by S. Toki).
