!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana NAC domain transcription factor, VASCULAR-RELATED NAC-DOMAIN7 (VND7), plays a pivotal role in regulating the differentiation of root protoxylem vessels. In order to understand the mechanisms underscoring the function of VND7 in vessel differentiation in more detail, we conducted extensive molecular analyses in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), Arabidopsis, and Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2 (tobacco BY-2) cells. The transcriptional activation activity of VND7 was confirmed in yeast and Arabidopsis, and the C-terminal region was shown to be required for VND7 transcriptional activation. Expression of the C-terminus-truncated VND7 protein under the control of the native VND7 promoter resulted in inhibition of the normal development of metaxylem vessels in roots and vessels in aerial organs, as well as protoxylem vessels in roots. The expression pattern of VND7 overlapped that of VND2 to VND5 in most of the differentiating vessels. Furthermore, a yeast two-hybrid assay revealed the ability of VND7 to form homodimers and heterodimers with other VND proteins via their N-termini, which include the NAC domain. The heterologous expression of VND7 in tobacco BY-2 cells demonstrated that the stability of VND7 could be regulated by proteasome-mediated degradation. Together these data suggest that VND7 regulates the differentiation of all types of vessels in roots and shoots, possibly in cooperation with VND2 to VND5 and other regulatory proteins.
!~RES~! Most NAC domain proteins have been previously characterized as transcriptional activators, and the C-terminal regions have been demonstrated to confer the transcriptional activation (reviewed in CITATION). To determine whether VND7 has transcriptional activation activity, full-length VND7 was fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GAL4-BD) and introduced into the AH109 yeast strain. GAL4-BD alone was used as a negative control. The cells transformed with full-length VND7 fused to GAL4-BD grew on the selective media without histidine or without histidine and adenine, indicating that VND7 exhibits transcriptional activation activity (Figure 1a). To investigate in detail the regions required for the transcriptional activation, truncated VND7 proteins deleted from the C-terminus were fused to GAL4-BD and expressed in AH109. The NAC domain proteins in the IIb/OsNAC7 subgroup contain two highly conserved domains, the LP-box and the WQ-box, within the C-terminal regions (CITATION). VND71–270 and VND71–242, which contain the LP-box but lack almost all or all of the WQ-box, promoted growth on selective medium lacking histidine but not on medium lacking histidine and adenine (Figure 1a), indicating that VND71–270 or VND71–242 are weaker transcriptional activators than full-length VND7. Little or no growth was observed in the cells transformed with VND71–216 and VND71–188, which lack both the LP- and WQ-boxes (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] The transcriptional activation activity of VND7 in plants was further assessed using dual luciferase assays (Figure 1b,c). The reporter plasmid containing the firefly (Photinus pyralis) luciferase (LUC) linked to GAL4-binding sites and the effector plasmid containing full-length or VND7 deletion mutants fused to GAL4-BD under the control of the CaMV35S promoter were delivered to Arabidopsis leaves by particle bombardment. Luciferase activity increased at least four-fold when GAL4-BD-VND7full was expressed, while no such increase was detected in LUC activity when only the NAC domain of VND7 (VND71–161) was expressed (Figure 1b,c). We next tested whether the C-terminal region of VND7 functions as a portable transcriptional activation domain. Expression of the entire C-terminal region (VND7162–324) fused to GAL4-BD exhibited stronger LUC activity than that of the truncated C-terminal region (VND7217–324). These results suggested that VND7 has transcriptional activation activity, and that the entire C-terminal region containing the LP- and WQ-boxes is required for full activity. Overexpression of VND7 in Arabidopsis induces the transdifferentiation of non-vascular cells into protoxylem-like vessel elements (CITATION). To elucidate the functional domain in VND7 required for transdifferentiation, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing full-length or C-terminal truncated VND7 (see Figure 1a) fused to the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. While fluorescence signals in transgenic control plants overexpressing YFP alone were detected in both the nucleus and cytosol (Figure 2a), the VND7full protein fused to YFP localized only to the nucleus, as described previously (CITATION) (Figure 2b). Moreover, all the C-terminal truncated VND7 proteins, including VND71–161 containing only the NAC domain, were localized specifically to the nucleus (Figure 2c), indicating that the NAC domain of VND7 is sufficient for nuclear localization. In control plants overexpressing YFP alone, vascular development in roots was normal – two protoxylem vessels were continuously formed and metaxylem vessels were located between these protoxylem vessels at the central region of the primary roots (Figure 2d,e). Overexpression of VND7full-YFP induced transdifferentiation of the various types of non-vascular cells into the xylem vessel elements in roots (Figure 2f,g; CITATION). However, we found that the cell fate of the original metaxylem vessel elements was unaffected by VND7full-YFP overexpression (Figure 2g). This result suggested that overexpression of VND7full-YFP driven by the CaMV35S promoter is sufficient for many cells to transdifferentiate but insufficient to change cell fate at the metaxylem position. Corresponding with the reduced transcriptional activation activities observed in yeast, the VND71–270 and VND71–242 proteins induced transdifferentiation of vessel elements with fainter secondary cell walls compared with those induced by overexpression of VND7full, and at a lower frequency (Table 1); in contrast, overexpression of VND71–216, VND71–188 and VND71–161 failed to induce any transdifferentiated cells (Table 1). These results suggest that the entire C-terminal region containing LP- and WQ-boxes is required to induce vessel transdifferentiation. [[FIGURE]] Nine-day-old roots with indicated number of transdifferentiated vessel elements were counted under a differential interference contrast (DIC) microscope. Values in parentheses are expressed as percentage (%) of the total. We found that overexpression of VND71–216, VND71–188 and VND71–161 failed to induce transdifferentiation of vessels and instead resulted in discontinuous formation of one or both protoxylem vessel columns (Figure 2h,i), a phenotype similar to transgenic plants overexpressing VND7 fused to the SRDX strong repression domain (CITATION). These data suggest that the C-terminus-truncated VND7 proteins exert a dominant negative effect on the formation of protoxylem vessels. To elucidate the dominant negative effects of expression of truncated VND7 on vessel formation, we generated transgenic plants expressing VND71–161 and VND7full fused to YFP under the control of the native VND7 promoter. The YFP signal in these transgenic seedlings was localized specifically in the nuclei in both immature protoxylem and metaxylem vessels, whereas the YFP signal of VND7pro:YFP-SV40 nuclear localizing signal (NLS) seedlings was detected not only in immature vessels but also in various vascular cells of older part of the roots, near the location of emergence of the lateral root (Figure 3a, Figure S1). Among 49 first-generation transgenic seedlings carrying VND7pro:VND71–161-YFP, 34 exhibited a dwarf phenotype in the aerial part (Figure 3b,f). In roots of these seedlings, discontinuous formation of protoxylem vessel was observed (Figure S2), as seen in transgenic seedlings expressing CaMV35Spro:VND71–161-YFP (Figure 2i) or CaMV35Spro:VND7full-SRDX (CITATION). Moreover, the VND7pro:VND71–161-YFP seedlings often showed inhibition of metaxylem vessel formation in roots as well as discontinuous vessel formation in the aerial parts, including the petioles and leaves (Figure 3c,e, Figure S2). In addition, more than half of the VND7pro:VND7full-SRDX lines (15 out of 24 lines) exhibited a dwarf phenotype with defects in vessel formation (data not shown), similar to the phenotype of VND7pro:VND71–161-YFP seedlings (Figure 3, Figure S2). These results strongly suggest that VND7 has a critical role not only in the formation of protoxylem vessels in roots, as shown previously (CITATION), but also in the formation of other types of vessels. Recently, it was reported that mis-expression of XYLEM NAC DOMAIN 1 (XND1), encoding another NAC domain protein, resulted in extreme dwarfism associated with the absence of xylem vessels (CITATION), suggesting a possible functional relationship between VND7 and XND1. [[FIGURE]] Several NAC domain proteins form homodimers, and heterodimerize with other family members (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that VND7 may associate with other VND proteins. To investigate this possibility, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid assay. As full-length VND7 functions as a transcriptional activator in yeast, as described above, only the N-terminal regions containing the NAC domains of VND family proteins (VNDNTERM) were used as bait and prey. Although the yeast cells carrying NAC11–199 fused to the GAL4-BD (GAL4-BD-NAC11–199) grew on the selective medium lacking histidine when co-transformed with NAC11–199 fused to the GAL4 transactivating domain (GAL4-AD-NAC11–199), as previously reported by CITATION, GAL4-BD-NAC11–199 co-transformed with other VNDNTERM proteins fused to GAL4-AD or CUC21–228-GAL4-AD failed to grow on the selective medium (Figure 4). The transformants co-expressing GAL4-BD-VND71–188 along with any of the GAL4-AD-VNDNTERM constructs all grew on the selective medium, though co-expression with GAL4-AD-VND11–187, VND21–188 and VND31–192 exhibited better growth than other VNDNTERM proteins (Figure 4). However, transformants expressing GAL4-BD-VND71–188 with GAL4-AD-NAC11–199 or CUC21–228 failed to grow on the selective medium (Figure 4). These data suggest that VND7 might homodimerize and heterodimerize with other VND members. In contrast, the transformants carrying GAL4-BD-VND61–186 showed strong reporter expression only with co-transformed GAL4-AD-VND61–186, suggesting that VND6 preferentially formed homodimers (Figure 4). It is possible that the distinct dimerization patterns of VND6 and VND7 reflect their differential function in the regulation of vessel formation. [[FIGURE]] To identify the cells in which VND family proteins may associate with each other via homo- and heterodimerization, we analyzed the detailed expression patterns of the VND family genes using a promoter assay with GUS as a reporter driven by the promoters of the VND family genes (CITATION; Figure 5, Table 2, Figure S3). The vascular expression of VND7pro:GUS was detected in protoxylem poles of root procambium, differentiating protoxylem and metaxylem vessels of roots, differentiating vessels of hypocotyls and leaves (Figure 5, Table 2). The expression pattern of VND7pro:GUS in the root procambium partially overlapped with that of VND2pro:GUS and VND3pro:GUS (Table 2, Figure S3). GUS expression driven by the VND2 to VND5 promoters in differentiating vessels was observed in all organs examined (roots, hypocotyls, cotyledons and leaves), and was similar to the pattern of GUS expression driven by the VND7 promoter (Table 2, Figure S3). VND6pro:GUS expression was restricted in the inner metaxylem vessels in roots and several vessels in hypocotyls, where VND7pro:GUS was also expressed (Table 2, Figure S3). These data suggest that VND7 might collaboratively function with other VND members in differentiating xylem vessels of all organs. [[FIGURE]] Expression levels: +++, strong; ++, medium; +, weak. aLateral root primordia. bA part of cells in columella root caps. Epidermal and cortex cells in the older part of roots and the root–hypocotyl junctions. cVascular cells other than vessels and pericycle cells in the older part of roots. dThe terms, pre-procambium and procambium, were used based on CITATION. eHydathodes of leaves. fEpidermal cells surrounding trichomes. Distal parts of true leaves 3 and 4. Marginal regions of true leaves 1 and 2. gBasal cells of stipules. hShoot apical regions. While YFP-tagged VND7 expression driven by the VND7 promoter was only observed in differentiating vessels in the roots of transgenic VND7pro:VND7full-YFP Arabidopsis seedlings, the YFP signal in VND7pro:YFP-NLS seedlings and GUS staining in VND7pro:GUS seedlings were observed not only in differentiating vessels but also in other vascular cells and pericycle cells in the older areas of roots (Figure 5, Figure S1). These data suggest that VND7 gene expression may be regulated post-transcriptionally. The expression of several NAC genes, such as CUC1, CUC2 and NAC1, was shown to be regulated via mRNA cleavage mediated by miR164 (CITATION; CITATION). However, sequence analysis did not reveal any potential cleavage sites for currently characterized miRNAs in the VND7 mRNA. We therefore postulated that VND7 expression levels could be controlled by protein stability, and thus investigated the stability of the VND7 protein in plant cells. Transformed tobacco BY-2 cells expressing VND7-YFP and YFP were prepared using an estrogen receptor-based chemical-inducible system (CITATION). Two days after subculture, the transformed cells were treated with or without 10 μm 17-β-estradiol for 24 h. In the absence of 17-β-estradiol, none of the cell lines had detectable YFP signals (data not shown). In the presence of 17-β-estradiol, the cells expressing YFP alone exhibited fluorescence signals in both the cytosol and nucleus, while those expressing VND7-YFP showed only nuclear signals (Figure 6a). Cells were cultured in the presence or absence of 17-β-estradiol for 16 h and were subsequently treated with or without 100 μm MG-132, a proteasome inhibitor (CITATION), for an additional 8 h. Immunoblot analysis with anti-GFP, which recognizes GFP derivatives including YFP and cyan fluorescent protein, and anti-tubulin antibodies showed that the VND7-YFP protein accumulated upon treatment with MG-132, while YFP alone and tubulin were unaffected by MG-132 (Figure 6b). This result suggested that the VND7 protein is regulated by proteasome-mediated degradation. VND7-YFP was observed to migrate as two bands (Figure 6b), which could be the result of post-transcriptional modifications, such as alternative mRNA splicing, partial protein degradation, protein glycosylation or protein phosphorylation. [[FIGURE]] Notably, vessel elements were induced in the BY-2 cells overexpressing VND7-YFP under the control of the estrogen receptor-based chemical-inducible system (Figure 6c). The rate of differentiation reached up to 2% of cells 4 days after treatment with 17-β-estradiol. No vessel elements were found with the transgenic cells cultured in the absence of 17-β-estradiol or from cells overexpressing YFP alone (data not shown). Furthermore, 4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylinodole (DAPI) staining showed that the nuclei of some differentiated vessel elements from the VND7-YFP cells disappeared (Figure 6c). These data indicate that VND7 could induce the complete program of vessel element formation including programmed cell death even in BY-2 cells, which have been sustained as proliferating cells for several decades.
!~MM~! To generate the destination vectors for the two-hybrid assay under the GATEWAY system, pBD-GAL4 Cam and pAD-GAL4-2.1 (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com), which contain a GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GAL4-BD) and GAL4 transactivating domain (GAL4-AD), respectively, were digested with EcoRI/PstI or EcoRI/XhoI and blunted using the BKL kit (Takara Bio, http://www.takara-bio.com/). These linearized fragments were ligated to an EcoRV-digested GATEWAY Reading Frame Cassette (GWRFC) B (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). The resultant plasmids were named pBD-GAL4-GWRFC and pAD-GAL4-GWRFC, respectively. The pH35GY and pH35GEAR vectors (CITATION) were digested with HindIII and XbaI, blunted using the BKL kit, and self-ligated to generate pHGY and pHGEAR, which lack the CaMV35S promoter sequence and contain YFP and SRDX, respectively. Full-length or truncated cDNAs of VND family genes, NAC1 or CUC2 with or without the native promoters were subcloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and then integrated into GATEWAY destination vectors, such as pH35GY (CITATION), pBD-GAL4-GWRFC, pAD-GAL4-GWRFC, pHGY or pHGEAR, using LR clonase (Invitrogen). The nucleotide sequence of the multicloning site (MCS) fragment is 5′-CACCTAGTGGATCCCCCGGGCTGCAGGAATTCGATATCAAGCTTATCGATACCGTCGACCTCGTGATG-3′, and includes a stop codon at the 5′ end and a start codon at the 3′ end. The GATEWAY destination vectors containing the MCS fragments were used as controls. Complementary DNA fragments of YFP and VND7 fused to the 3′ end of YFP were amplified by PCR from the pH35GY-VND7 plasmid, and then subcloned into the XhoI/SpeI sites of the pER8 vector, an estrogen receptor-based chemical-inducible system for use in transgenic plants (CITATION). For the dual luciferase transient transfection assay, VND7 cDNA fragments were inserted into the SmaI/SalI sites of the p35S-GAL4DB effector plasmid (CITATION); reporter and reference plasmids containing firefly LUC and Renilla reniformis LUC, respectively, were prepared as described previously (CITATION). The resultant plasmids constructed on pBD-GAL4-GWRFC and/or pAD-GAL4-GWRFC were introduced into S. cerevisiae strain AH109 (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com/) by the lithium acetate method (CITATION). The transformants were incubated at 30°C on minimal SD medium (Clontech) either lacking tryptophan and leucine, tryptophan, leucine and histidine, or tryptophan, leucine, histidine and adenine. pBD-wt and pAD-wt (Stratagene) were used as the positive controls. The effector, reporter and reference plasmids were delivered to rosette leaves of 4-week-old Arabidopsis by particle bombardment (GE Healthcare, http://www.gelifesciences.com/) and LUC activity was assayed with the Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay System (Promega, http://www.promega.com/) using the Mithras LB940 (Berthold, http://www.bertholdtech.com/). The resultant plasmids were electroporated into Agrobacterium strain GV3101::pMP90, which was used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 and BY-2. The T1 generation of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was selected by growth medium (GM) supplemented with 20 μg mL−1 hygromycin under conditions of continuous light. Six days after germination, the antibiotic-resistant plants were transferred to antibiotic-free medium. The T1 generation of transgenic Arabidopsis containing VND7pro:VND7 was selected by GM supplemented with hygromycin for 7 days, transferred to antibiotic-free medium for 7 days, and planted into Jiffy seven pots (Sakata Seed, http://www.sakata.com/) under 16-h light/8-h dark conditions. The observation of transgenic plants, including the promoter:reporter (YFP-NLS or GUS) lines, was carried out according to CITATION. Transformation of BY-2 cells was essentially as previously described by CITATION. Transgenic BY-2 cells from the single colonies were maintained in Linsmaier–Skoog (LS) medium (CITATION). BY-2 cells were stained with DAPI to visualize nuclei and safranin to visualize the cell wall. To block proteasome-mediated protein degradation, transgenic BY-2 cells were subcultured for 2 days and first treated with 10 μm of 17-β-estradiol (Wako Pure Chemical, http://www.wako-chem.co.jp/) for 16 h and then with 100 μm MG-132 (Wako Pure Chemical) for an additional 8 h. Protein was extracted using an extraction buffer [25 mm 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-HCl pH 7.6, 75 mm NaCl, 15 mm MgCl2, 15 mm EGTA, 60 mmβ-glycerophosphate, 0.1% (v/v) NP-40, 0.1 mm Na3VO4, 1 mm NaF, 1 mm DTT] containing Protease Inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) and 100 μm MG-132. Protein samples were fractionated by SDS-PAGE, subjected to immunoblotting with the anti-GFP antibody (MBL, http://www.mbl.co.jp/) or anti-tubulin antibody (CITATION), and signals were detected with ECL plus (GE Healthcare).
