!~ABS~! Plant steroid hormones, brassinosteroids (BRs), are of great importance for plant growth and development. BRs signal through a cell surface receptor kinase, BRI1, and a GSK3-like kinase, BIN2, to regulate the BES1/BZR1 family of transcription factors, which directly bind to target gene promoters to activate or repress gene expression and mediate BR responses. To understand how BES1 regulates target gene expression, we identified two BES1-interacting proteins, ELF6 (early flowering 6) and its homolog REF6 (relative of early flowering 6), both of which are Jumonji N/C (JmjN/C) domain-containing proteins and were previously found to regulate flowering time. The interactions between BES1 and ELF6/REF6 were confirmed by GST pull-down and BiFC (bimolecular fluorescence complementation) experiments. Mutations in ELF6 or REF6 genes in Arabidopsis lead to BR-related phenotypes, including impaired cell elongation and reduced expression of BR target genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments indicated that histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methylation status was changed in elf6 and ref6 mutants, consistent with recent findings that many Jmj proteins are histone demethylases. Our results demonstrate that BES1 recruits other transcriptional regulators such as ELF6 and REF6 to regulate target gene expression and coordinate BR responses with other developmental processes such as control of flowering time. Jmj domain-containing histone demethylases are involved in gene expression in many developmental processes and diseases, but how these proteins affect specific pathways is not well understood. Thus, our study establishes an important mechanism by which Jmj domain proteins modulate specific gene expression by interacting with pathway-specific transcription factors such as BES1.
!~RES~! We used a yeast one-hybrid system to identify BES1 partners. To avoid high background activation caused by BES1, we used a BES1 binding site (E2 box: CACTTG) that binds BES1 with moderate affinity (data not shown) to construct the reporters. From ≈5 million colonies screened, several clones were able to activate reporter gene expression. One of the clones carried a cDNA fragment encoding the C-terminal part of ELF6 (ELF6-C, FIG-REFA). To confirm the interaction between ELF6-C and BES1, we transformed GAL4AD-ELF6-C (or control vector) into a yeast reporter strain without or with BES1 and determined the LacZ activity by qualitative or quantitative assays (FIG-REF B and C). Whereas ELF6-C alone had little effect on reporter gene expression, BES1 by itself can activate reporter gene expression. More important, coexpression of BES1 and ELF6-C led to synergistic activation of the reporter gene, suggesting that BES1 interacts with ELF6-C. Predicted full-length ELF6 has 1,340 amino acids and is composed of three recognizable functional domains: JmjN, JmjC, and four tandem C2H2-type zinc fingers (FIG-REFA). A close homolog of ELF6, REF6, has the same architecture, except for a predicted coiled-coil region (FIG-REFA). Because of the high homology between ELF6 and REF6, especially at their C termini, we tested whether REF6 also interacted with BES1. Like ELF6-C, REF6-C fused with GAL4AD could also synergistically activate the lacZ reporter with BES1 (FIG-REFC). Taken together, these results suggest that BES1 interacts with both ELF6 and REF6 in the yeast system. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the direct interactions between BES1 and ELF6/REF6, we fused full-length BES1 with MBP and ELF6-C and REF6-C with GST and performed a GST pull-down experiment. GST–ELF6-C or GST–REF6-C, but not GST alone, was able to pull down full-length BES1 (FIG-REFA), indicating that ELF6 and REF6 directly interact with BES1 in vitro. [[FIGURE]] To determine which domain of BES1 was required for the interaction with ELF6, we mapped the binding site of ELF6 on BES1 using a series of truncated BES1 and GST–ELF6-C and GST–REF6-C proteins. Deletion of the N-terminal 41 amino acid of BES1 (BES1ΔN) disrupted the interaction between BES1 and ELF6-C or REF6-C (FIG-REFA). The fragment containing the first 41 residues of BES1 was sufficient for the interaction, although the binding was much weaker (BES1 1–41). When we further deleted amino acid 21–41, the interaction was abolished (BES1 1–20). Thus, the first 41 amino acids of BES1 were necessary and sufficient for the BES1-EFL6/REF6 interaction, and residues 21 to 41 are important for this interaction. Interestingly, these residues overlap with the basic region of the bHLH domain of BES1 (underlined in FIG-REFA). We then took a similar approach to map the BES1 interaction regions in ELF6-C and REF6-C using a fragment of BES1 containing the first 98 amino acids (BES1-N). While deletion of individual zinc finger weakened the interaction (FIG-REFB Left), zinc fingers in both ELF6 and REF6 can bind BES1 (FIG-REFB Right). These results demonstrated that both the zinc fingers and the fragment immediately upstream of zinc fingers of ELF6 and REF6 contributed to the interaction with BES1. To test whether full-length ELF6 interacts with BES1 in vivo, we constructed plasmids for BiFC. In the assay, we fused EYFP C terminus downstream of BES1 (pXY108) and EYFP N terminus upstream of ELF6 (pXY110) (FIG-REFA). When both constructs were introduced to Arabidopsis protoplasts, strong fluorescence was observed in the nucleus (FIG-REFB), indicating an interaction of BES1 and ELF6. Among the cells observed, ≈10% cells showed positive signals. To determine whether the observed fluorescence was truly due to an ELF6-BES1 interaction, we deleted the ELF6/REF6-interacting domain in BES1 and tested the interaction again. Because the deletion also disrupts the BES1 nuclear localization signal, the NLS from SV40 was fused to the BES1 fragment (BES1ΔN, amino acid 42–335, which does not interact with ELF6 as shown in FIG-REFA). The fusion protein indeed is localized in the nucleus when tagged with full-length EYFP (data not shown). The NLS-BES1ΔN-EYFP-C (pXY122) is cotransfected into protoplasts with pXY110, and no positive signal was observed (FIG-REFC). We conclude that BES1 interacts with ELF6 in Arabidopsis cells. [[FIGURE]] To determine the biological functions of ELF6 and REF6 in BR responses, we obtained T-DNA insertion alleles of both ELF6 and REF6 and named them as elf6 and ref6, respectively. Light grown seedlings of elf6 or ref6 did not show obvious phenotypes; however, adult elf6 plants were early flowering and ref6 plants flowered late, as previously reported (CITATION). In addition, adult plants of both mutants have reduced cell elongation phenotypes, characterized by shorter leaf petioles compared to a wild-type control (about 30% reduction) (FIG-REF). Interestingly, ref6, but not elf6, also produces shorter leaf blades, suggesting that these two genes probably function in a tissue-specific manner. Both mutants have similar leaf widths as the wild type. To determine the genetic relationship between ELF6 and REF6, we also made double mutant elf6 ref6, which has essentially the same phenotype as ref6 (FIG-REF), suggesting that ELF6 and REF6 function in a common pathway, at least with respect to the cell elongation process. [[FIGURE]] These elf6 and ref6 phenotypes are reminiscent of BR-deficient or -insensitive mutants. To further confirm that the observed cell elongation phenotype is related to BR responses, we made a ref6 and bri1-5 (a weak allele of bri1) double mutant. As shown in FIG-REFD, ref6 mutation could enhance bri1-5's phenotype, displaying even shorter hypocotyls as well as darker green and more curled leaves. The result is consistent with our hypothesis that REF6 modulates BR response. Because ref6 displayed a stronger cell elongation phenotype, we determined the gene expression profile of ref6 adult plants using Affymetrix Arabidopsis Genomic Arrays (ATH1). Among the 342 genes previously shown to be induced by BRs (CITATION), we found that 45 of them were reduced in ref6 by about 30–80% [supporting information (SI) Table S1]. A semiquantitative RT-PCR was carried out with BR-induced genes in ref6, elf6, and elf6 ref6 double mutant to confirm the results from the microarray experiment (FIG-REFA). Most genes we tested (9 of 11) were indeed reduced in ref6, elf6 ref6, and to a lesser extent in elf6, which is consistent with the severity of the cell elongation phenotypes. Quantitative RT-PCR studies indicated that the BL induction of TCH4 and ATEXLA2 genes is attenuated in elf6 ref6 double mutant (Fig. S1). Taking together, these results suggest that ELF6 and REF6 are required for BR-induced gene expression. [[FIGURE]] Given the facts that ELF6 and REF6 can interact with BES1 and that the expression levels of some BR-regulated genes decrease in elf6 and ref6 mutants, we hypothesized that ELF6 and REF6 were recruited by BES1to modulate the expression of some BR target genes. As an example, we used the TCH4 gene, which was known to be up-regulated during BR-regulated cell elongation (CITATION) and was also consistently reduced in both elf6 and ref6. By ChIP with anti-BES1 antibody, we found that BES1 bound to two E-box-containing fragments in the TCH4 promoter, TCH4–1 (−1125/−919) and TCH4–2 (−319/+3) (FIG-REFC). As a negative control, there was no enrichment of Ta3, a retrotransposable element in Arabidopsis. These results indicate that TCH4 is a direct target of BES1. Based on the conserved residues required for binding cofactors, ELF6 and REF6 seem most closely related to the JHDM3 subfamily (FIG-REFB). The JHDM3 family members have been shown to remove methyl groups from trimethyl histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3) (CITATION). If ELF6 and REF6 have same enzyme activity, we should expect elevated H3K9me3 in loss-of-function mutants at the promoter regions of ELF6/REF6-affected genes. ChIP assays were then performed with anti-H3K9m3 antibody. As shown in FIG-REFC (middle gel), H3K9me3 level is significantly elevated at the TCH4–2 site in both elf6 and ref6 mutants. Interestingly, at the TCH4–1 site (which is further upstream from the TCH4 gene core promoter), there is no enrichment of H3K9me3 level compared with antibody control (FIG-REFC, top gel). Although the Ta3 locus appears to have H3K9me3 modification, there is no change in H3K9me3 level between wild-type and elf6 and ref6 (FIG-REFC, bottom gel). Taking together, our ChIP studies indicate that ELF6 and REF6 are recruited to BR target gene promoters by BES1 and likely modulate gene expression through histone modifications (FIG-REFD).
!~MM~! A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was the wild type. T-DNA insertion mutants, elf6 and ref6, were obtained from ABRC (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) and corresponded to lines SALK_074694 and SALK_001018, respectively. elf6 has a T-DNA insertion at amino acid 169, and ref6 at amino acid 1082, which were previously designated as elf6–3 and ref6–1 (CITATION). Plants were grown in MS plates or soil under long day (16-h light/8-h dark) conditions at 22°C. The ELF6 coding region was amplified from Col-0 cDNA and incorporated into the pETMALc-H vector (Merck). BES1 and the C-terminal domains of ELF6 and REF6 were cloned into pGBKT7 and pGADT7 (Clontech), respectively, for expression in yeast. BES1 and ELF6/REF6 as well as deletion mutants were cloned into pMAL-p2x (NEB) and pET42a(+) (Novagen), respectively, for recombinant protein production. For BiFC assay (CITATION), the N (amino acids 1–174) or C (amino acids 175–239) terminus of EYFP was amplified from pEYFP-N1 (Clontech). The N-terminal parts of the EYFP and ELF6 coding region were cloned into pCHF3 (CITATION) to yield pXY110. The C terminus of EYFP and then the full-length or N-terminal-truncated form of BES1 with SV40 nuclear localization signal (NLS) (CITATION) were cloned into pCHF3 to create pXY108 and pXY122, respectively. The omega translational enhancer is placed in the plant expression vectors before the fusion genes. The primer sequences used for cloning, genotyping, and PCR are listed in Table S2. The Clontech yeast one-hybrid system was used. Four tandem copies of E2 sites (CACTTG) were cloned into the yeast minimal promoters directing lacZ (β-galactosidase) and His reporter genes, which are integrated into yeast strain YM4271 that has a his−trp−leu− genotype. Yeast transformed with both BES1 (with TRP marker) and an Arabidopsis cDNA library (with LEU marker) (CITATION) was first screened in media lacking His, Trp, and Leu. Positive clones were then assayed for LacZ activity by using X-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-b-d-galactopyranoside) or ONPG (ortho-nitrophenyl-b-d-galactopyranoside). BES1 and BES1 fragments fused with maltose binding protein (MBP) were purified with amylose resin (NEB). ELF6 and REF6 fragments fused with GST were purified with glutathione beads (Sigma). GST pull-down assays were performed as described (CITATION). Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared and transformed by PEG-mediated transfection (CITATION). After culturing for 2 days, cells were observed under an OLYMPUS IX71 fluorescence microscope with an EYFP filter. Total RNA was extracted from adult plants with TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) and then purified with RNeasy Mini kit (Qiagen). Microarray experiments were performed with GeneChip Facility (http://www.biotech.iastate.edu/facilities/genechip/Genechip.htm). Data were analyzed by R with the affy package (http://bioconductor.org/packages/2.1/bioc/html/affy.html). Genes that are reduced by at least 33% in both biological replicates were considered to be significant. For RT-PCR, 2.5 μg total RNA was reverse-transcribed to cDNA by SuperScript II Reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Equal amount of cDNA was used for PCR with 25 to 31 cycles, which were in the linear range of amplification (data not shown). RT-PCRs were repeated twice, and typical results are presented. ChIP was performed as described (CITATION). Antibodies against BES1 or trimethylated H3K9 (Abcam) were used to precipitate chromatin, and GFP antibody (Molecular Probes) was used as a negative control. The ChIP assays were repeated two to three times, and the typical results are presented.
