!~ABS~! The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains five sequences with high similarity to FLAVONOL SYNTHASE1 (AtFLS1), a previously characterized flavonol synthase gene that plays a central role in flavonoid metabolism. This apparent redundancy suggests the possibility that Arabidopsis uses multiple isoforms of FLS with different substrate specificities to mediate the production of the flavonols, quercetin and kaempferol, in a tissue-specific and inducible manner. However, biochemical and genetic analysis of the six AtFLS sequences indicates that, although several of the members are expressed, only AtFLS1 encodes a catalytically competent protein. AtFLS1 also appears to be the only member of this group that influences flavonoid levels and the root gravitropic response in seedlings under nonstressed conditions. This study showed that the other expressed AtFLS sequences have tissue- and cell type-specific promoter activities that overlap with those of AtFLS1 and encode proteins that interact with other flavonoid enzymes in yeast two-hybrid assays. Thus, it is possible that these “pseudogenes” have alternative, noncatalytic functions that have not yet been uncovered.
!~RES~! The first Arabidopsis gene with high homology to FLS genes from other plant species, AtFLS1 (At5g08640), was originally identified in the EST database a number of years ago (CITATION). Analysis of flavonols in an En-induced mutant line and activity assays with recombinant protein confirmed that the gene encoded a protein with FLS activity (CITATION; CITATION). Five additional sequences with high homology to FLS genes were subsequently uncovered during sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome, which we have designated AtFLS2 (At5g63580), AtFLS3 (At5g63590), AtFLS4 (At5g63595), AtFLS5 (At5g63600), and AtFLS6 (At5g43935; Arabidopsis Genome Initiative, 2000). These sequences cluster more closely with FLS genes from other plants than with other plant flavonoid 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases (2-ODDs), both at the nucleotide (data not shown) and predicted amino acid (Fig. 1 ) levels. The six genes are all located on chromosome 5, with AtFLS2, -3, -4, and -5 arranged in a 7.5-kb tandem array (Fig. 2 ). The four clustered genes are no more closely related to each other than to the other two genes, with AtFLS2 the most distantly related at the nucleotide level (48%–51% identity) and the others exhibiting 62% to 73% identity. This suggests that the duplications leading to the amplification of this gene family, including the AtFLS2 to -5 tandem array, are ancient events. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtFLS1, -3, and -5 appear to encode full-length proteins and all contain two introns at identical positions, corresponding to two of the five intron sites that are conserved among plant 2-ODD genes (CITATION). The AtFLS2 gene contains a large second intron, and the predicted coding sequence encodes a truncated protein lacking key C-terminal residues required for Fe2+ coordination (H220, D222, and H276 in AtFLS1) and α-ketoglutarate binding (R286 and S288 in AtFLS1; CITATION; CITATION). The situation is more complex for AtFLS4 and AtFLS6, both of which are predicted to contain an additional intron relative to the other four AtFLS genes in what is otherwise the second exon (The Arabidopsis Information Resource [TAIR] 7.0 genome sequence, released April 23, 2007; CITATION). To date, no full-length cDNA sequences have been reported for AtFLS4. Of the four AtFLS4 EST sequences available in GenBank (CITATION) and the RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center (Seki et al., 2004), only one spans the region containing the predicted additional intron, and these sequences are not spliced out, severely truncating the coding region. As described in further detail below, reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis of ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) roots identified multiple transcripts for AtFLS4 that apparently arise from a complex differential splicing scheme. Sequence analysis of four of these cDNAs showed erroneous splicing at the 3′ ends of exons 1 and 2, resulting in premature stop codons (Fig. 2); all also retained the additional predicted intron sequences. In the case of AtFLS6, no cDNA or EST sequences have been reported to date, and efforts to amplify transcripts from root RNA by RT-PCR were unsuccessful (data not shown). If this gene is expressed at all, the transcript is likely to be processed in a manner similar to that used for AtFLS4. Thus, it appears that AtFLS2, -4, and -6 are pseudogenes that are unlikely to contribute to flavonol synthase activity in Arabidopsis. To test the possibility that the AtFLS genes have acquired differential patterns of expression, transcript abundance and promoter activities were examined over the course of Arabidopsis plant growth and development. Plants growing in soil under a 16-h photoperiod were sampled at regular intervals over a 7-week period. Semiquantitative RT-PCR was used to compare the abundance of the transcripts in whole seedlings and in plant organs known to accumulate high levels of flavonols (CITATION). AtFLS1 displayed the broadest pattern of expression (Fig. 3A ). The highest AtFLS1 transcript levels were detected during the reproductive stage, in the developing inflorescence, floral buds, flowers, and siliques. Lower, but still substantial, levels were detected in the roots and shoots of young seedlings and in leaves of later vegetative stages. This pattern is consistent with the publicly available microarray data for different stages of Arabidopsis development (Genevestigator [Fig. 3, B and C] and AtGenExpress [data not shown]). Interestingly, the AtFLS2 pseudogene appears to be expressed at high levels in the shoot apex and lower stem, tissues in which AtFLS1 transcripts were not detected, and at low levels in flowers and siliques (Fig. 3A). These patterns are also reflected in the microarray data (Fig. 3, B and C). AtFLS5 appeared to be expressed at much lower levels, with transcripts detected primarily in seedling roots, while AtFLS3 expression was undetectable or extremely low in all samples examined; these findings are again consistent with the microarray data (Fig. 3, B and C). Expression of the AtFLS4 and -6 pseudogenes was not examined, as these genes appear to have little, if any, expression based on the EST databases; they are also not represented on either the 8 K or 22 K array used to generate the data compiled in Genevestigator. [[FIGURE]] It is interesting that the microarray data indicate that expression of AtFLS1, but not AtFLS2, -3, or -5, parallels that of the other “early” flavonoid genes during development and in the response to light and several other external cues (Fig. 3, B–D). This is also reflected in the ATTED-II database, where AtFLS1 expression has a 0.83 to 0.84 correlation score with other “early” flavonoid genes, while AtFLS3 and AtFLS5 are correlated with each other (score of 0.70) but not with any other flavonoid genes (CITATION). Developmental gene expression patterns were further investigated by analyzing transgenic plants containing AtFLS1, -2, -3, and -5 promoter sequences fused to the GUS gene. AtFLS1, -3, and -5 were expressed in the root-shoot transition zone of 3-d-old seedlings and along the length of the roots at 9 d (Fig. 4, A–C and G–I). In 9-d-old seedlings, AtFLS3 promoter activity was strongest in the vascular bundle, while the AtFLS5 promoter was active from the vascular bundle up to, but not including, the epidermis, although it was not possible to resolve staining differences between the endodermis and cortex. Compared with AtFLS3 and -5 in 9-d-old roots, AtFLS1 expression appeared more sporadically, with no consistent expression pattern emerging in roots at this stage of development. AtFLS1 and -3 root expression decreased in later vegetative stages, but AtFLS5 was sporadically detected in various positions of older roots (data not shown). All three isoforms showed expression in initiating lateral roots, especially in young plants (Fig. 4, J–L). [[FIGURE]] In vegetative shoots, AtFLS1 promoter activity was consistently detected in young leaves, appearing in the upper epidermal tissues and especially concentrated in the youngest initiating leaves (near the shoot apical meristem), including the trichomes (Fig. 4M). The AtFLS3 and -5 promoters were also active in young leaves, but they were limited to trichomes for AtFLS3 and to the meristem for AtFLS5 (Fig. 4, N and O). While AtFLS1 expression was visible in leaf tissues for all transgenic lines that we investigated, this was not the case for AtFLS3 and -5, in which expression was limited to a few lines each, consistent with the overall lower gene expression levels for these isoforms as assessed by RT-PCR. High levels of AtFLS1 promoter activity were also detected in reproductive tissues, specifically in petals, stamens (filament and anther), carpels (stigma), and siliques (pedicel/valve junction), and sporadically through the perianth of young bud clusters and mature flowers (Fig. 4, P–R), consistent with the results of RT-PCR analysis. No AtFLS3 or AtFLS5 promoter activity was detected in any of these tissues. However, this is the one stage at which the AtFLS2 promoter was observed, with the highest GUS activity occurring in the shoot apex at the base of the inflorescence bolt and in the pedicel/valve junction (Fig. 4, S–U), consistent with the RT-PCR experiments and the Genevestigator microarray database. A hallmark of flavonoid genes such as CHS, CHI, and DFR is that their expression is strongly induced by a variety of environmental factors, including both biotic and abiotic factors that cause mechanical damage to the plant (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). One example is the induction of CHS gene expression in diverse plant species by Orobanche aegyptiaca, a plant parasite that forms a physical connection with host roots and activates a variety of wound- and jasmonic acid-inducible genes (CITATION; J.H. Westwood, unpublished data). To test whether the AtFLS genes were also induced by infection with this parasite, the promoter-GUS plants were grown for 3 weeks in a semihydroponic system and then infected with O. aegyptiaca as described by CITATION. Unlike the AtCHS promoter, which was strongly induced upon invasion of the O. aegyptiaca haustorium, the AtFLS1 to -5 promoters did not exhibit any detectable activity in this assay (Fig. 4, V–AA). The AtFLS1 to -5 promoters were also not induced when roots were accidentally damaged during handling, unlike the CHS promoter, which showed strong activation at sites of breakage (data not shown). A similar lack of wound inducibility of FLS genes relative to other flavonoid genes was recently reported in Populus and was suggested to reflect the lack of participation of FLS in the synthesis of condensed tannin defense molecules (CITATION). Therefore, although AtFLS1 is coordinately expressed with other flavonoid genes during development (CITATION; Fig. 3), it is also subject to distinct regulation in response to environmental factors. In Arabidopsis, as in other plant species, the relative levels of quercetin and kaempferol vary substantially depending on the tissue and cell type (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To test the possibility that differential expression of AtFLS isoforms with distinct substrate specificities could determine the relative ratios of these two flavonols, AtFLS1, -3, and -5 enzymes were produced in E. coli as thioredoxin fusion proteins and assayed using a variety of substrates. Consistent with previous reports, AtFLS1 was very effective at converting dihydrokaempferol (DHK) to kaempferol (Fig. 5A ; CITATION; CITATION), while only a portion of the supplied dihydroquercetin (DHQ) was converted to quercetin by this enzyme under the same conditions (Fig. 5B; CITATION). In addition, a portion of naringenin, normally the substrate for F3H, was converted to DHK by AtFLS1, some of which was subsequently converted to kaempferol (Fig. 5C; CITATION). Thus, AtFLS1 exhibited a clear preference for DHK in these assays, while, surprisingly, DHQ was used less well than even naringenin. However, neither AtFLS3 nor AtFLS5 appeared to have enzyme activity with any of the substrates under a variety of conditions that included variations in pH, temperature, enzyme and substrate concentration, and enzyme enrichment and cleavage procedures (Fig. 5, A–C; data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Close inspection of the primary sequences of the AtFLS proteins identified a region spanning approximately 30 amino acids that is present in AtFLS1 and all other plant flavonoid dioxygenases but that is altered or absent in AtFLS2 to -6 (Fig. 6A ). Included in this region are Arg and Glu residues (Arg-25 and Glu-29 in AtFLS1) that are invariant in all other plant dioxygenases as well as numerous other residues that are strictly conserved among the flavonoid 2-ODD enzymes, FLS, F3H, ANS, and FNS1. To analyze this region on a structural level, homology models were constructed based on the crystal structure of Arabidopsis ANS (Protein Data Bank identifier 1GP4, CITATION), with which AtFLS1, -3, and -5 exhibit 37.8%, 33.9%, and 31.4% amino acid identity, respectively (Fig. 6B). The root mean square deviation (RMSD) values for the homology models of AtFLS3 and AtFLS5 compared with AtFLS1 were 1.23 and 1.48 Å, respectively, indicating that the structures are quite similar overall, including the architecture of the jellyroll core. However, there appeared to be substantial differences in the positions of several key active site residues among these proteins. In particular, the Fe2+-coordinating residue Asp-222 differed by 3.28 Å between AtFLS1 and -3, while the adjacent His-220 varied by 2.55 Å between AtFLS1 and -5. The largest apparent differences are near the N terminus and in the largely unstructured C terminus. The conserved 30 amino acids that are altered or absent in the AtFLS2 to -6 proteins constitute a region in the AtFLS1 model that contains a seven-residue α-helix (residues 26–31) near the mouth of the jellyroll motif and is otherwise largely unstructured. The absolutely conserved Arg-25 is adjacent to this helix, while the conserved Glu-29 is in the center of the helix. This structural element appears to be missing in AtFLS3 and AtFLS5. An additional N-terminal α-helix in the homology model (AtFLS1 residues 5–8) is also absent in AtFLS3 and is present, but appears to be positioned differently, in AtFLS5. [[FIGURE]] Further evidence for the functional importance of this N-terminal region comes from analysis of expression constructs derived from AtFLS1 clone EST 153O10T7, which lacks the coding sequences for the 21 N-terminal amino acids (CITATION). The truncation completely eliminates the first α-helix and the first seven residues in an unstructured region of the conserved 30-amino acid fragment. Protein produced from this construct had no activity with any of the tested substrates when assayed under the same conditions as the full-length AtFLS1 (data not shown). To test the possibility that the N-terminal region of AtFLS1 could restore the activity of the inactive AtFLS isoforms, a chimeric construct was generated in which the N-terminal 30 amino acids of AtFLS5 were replaced with the first 40 amino acids of AtFLS1 (Fig. 5D). However, the chimeric protein also had no detectable activity with any of the tested substrates. This indicates that the 21 N-terminal amino acids of AtFLS1 are required for activity in that enzyme but are not sufficient to restore activity to AtFLS5. This suggests that the structural integrity of the remaining AtFLS5 gene product underwent further decay following loss of the critical N-terminal residues. The possibility that the FLS proteins may serve nonenzymatic roles as part of a flavonoid biosynthetic metabolon was investigated by yeast two-hybrid analysis of potential interactions of AtFLS1, -3, and -5 with AtCHS, AtCHI, AtF3H, and AtDFR. The proteins were analyzed in all possible pairwise combinations, fused to either the activation domain or the binding domain of GAL4 (CITATION; CITATION). The observed interactions are summarized in Table I . AtFLS1, -3, and -5 interacted with AtCHS when they were fused to the GAL4 activation domain but not when fused to the bait domain. AtFLS1 also interacted with AtF3H and AtDFR in both configurations. The only other positive result was for AtFLS5 fused to the GAL4 bait domain with AtDFR. These findings are reminiscent of those reported previously for AtCHS, AtCHI, and AtDFR (CITATION) and suggest that AtFLS1 may function as yet another component of a flavonoid multienzyme complex. Moreover, although AtFLS3 and AtFLS5 do not have measurable enzyme activity, these proteins appear to have retained the ability to interact physically with other members of the central flavonoid biosynthetic pathway and could conceivably play structural and/or regulatory roles in flavonoid metabolism. Yeast two-hybrid analysis of interactions between AtFLS1, -3, and -5 and other flavonoid enzymes To further investigate the possibility that AtFLS genes play unanticipated roles in flavonoid biosynthesis in planta, knockout lines were identified for each of the genes in the SALK and GABI-KAT T-DNA collections (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous lines were obtained in the Columbia (Col) background for AtFLS2 (GABI 429B10), AtFLS3 (SALK_050041), AtFLS4 (SALK_002309), AtFLS5 (GABI 317E12), and AtFLS6 (SALK_003879) as described in “Materials and Methods.” The only knockout candidate for AtFLS1, SALK_076420, was found to be embryo lethal in the homozygous state (data not shown). However, this insertion lies in the intergenic region shared by AtFLS1 and a divergently transcribed gene (At5g08630) that encodes a DDT domain-containing protein of unknown function. Two other T-DNA insertions, in the coding region of At5g08630 (SALK_004358 and SALK_039219), were also homozygous lethal (data not shown), indicating that this phenotype in the SALK_076420 line was due to disruption of the adjacent gene, not AtFLS1. A line homozygous for an insertion in the 5′ untranslated region of AtFLS1, AJ588535, was subsequently recovered in the ecotype Wassilewskija (Ws) background from the INRA collection (CITATION). The T-DNA lines were then used to explore the contributions of the AtFLS1 to -6 genes to flavonoid biosynthesis. Extracts were prepared from whole seedlings and from flowers, in which these genes were found to be expressed at high levels in the experiments described above. The insertion in AtFLS1 resulted in a substantial reduction in peaks with retention times corresponding to those of quercetin and kaempferol, and these peaks had different UV-visible light absorption spectra than did those from wild-type Ws and the authentic standards (Fig. 7 ; supplemental material). This suggested that these compounds in fls1 were sinapate esters, not flavonols, similar to what is observed in Arabidopsis CHS and F3H null mutants (CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 7B). To examine this possibility further, seedling extracts were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS); surprisingly, small quantities of both quercetin and kaempferol were detected in fls1 (Supplemental Fig. S2). The fls1 plants also exhibited a much more intense red coloration of the hypocotyl and cotyledons during germination and at the base of the stalk of mature plants compared with the wild type (data not shown). Analysis of anthocyanidin levels in seedlings showed that fls1 seedlings accumulated approximately twice as much of these pigments per gram dry weight as the wild-type Ws counterpart (Fig. 7A). This apparent diversion of flux into neighboring branch pathways is similar to what has been reported for other flavonoid mutants, such as banyuls, which is deficient in ANS (CITATION). In contrast, neither the fls3 and fls5 lines nor any of the other FLS mutant lines exhibited a detectable effect on flavonol or anthocyanidin accumulation, either in flowers or seedlings (Fig. 7A; supplemental material; data not shown). This suggests that only AtFLS1 contributes to flavonol synthesis in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The fls1 mutant also provides a new genetic tool for exploring the role of flavonols in root gravitropism. Extensive work over the past several years with Arabidopsis tt4 mutants has provided strong support for a model in which flavonoids, and flavonols in particular, function to slow auxin transport in specific cell files in order to cause root curvature (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To provide further support for the specific role of flavonols, as opposed to other flavonoids, in this process, the gravity response of fls1 roots was compared with that of tt4(8), an allele in the Ws background, and the wild-type Ws. Surprisingly, neither tt4(8) nor fls1 exhibited a substantial difference in the response of roots to gravity relative to the Ws wild type (data not shown ). This could reflect differences in the ecotype that was used (Ws versus Col) compared with previously published experiments. However, both fls1 and tt4(8) showed a distinct difference from Ws in the amount of variation in the response among seedlings (Fig. 8). This suggests that, although the overall response is similar in Ws, with or without flavonols present, the precision of the response is much higher in the presence of these compounds. The similarity between fls1 and tt4(8) provides further evidence that it is flavonols, and not other flavonoids, that mediate root bending in response to gravity. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in 7.5- × 5.5- × 5.5-cm pots containing Sunshine Mix 1 soil (Sungro Horticulture Processing) in a climate-controlled incubator (I-66LLVL; Percival Scientific) with a 16-/8-h photoperiod, 45 μmol m−2 s−1 fluorescent light, and 20°C constant temperature. The soil was amended with Osmocote controlled-release fertilizer (Scotts) or weekly fertilizing with 0.015% (w/v) Miracle-Gro 15-30-15 (Scotts). Under these conditions, inflorescence development was prominent at 6 weeks after planting. Seedlings for the analysis of flavonol and anthocyanidin content were grown on the surface of Murashige and Skoog/Suc/agar plates under continuous light as described previously (CITATION). Sequences for the six members of the AtFLS gene family in Col (AtFLS1, accession no. At5g08640; AtFLS2, At5g63580; AtFLS3, At5g63590; AtFLS4, At5g63595; AtFLS5, At5g63600; AtFLS6, At5g43935) were obtained from TAIR and analyzed using Lasergene (DNAStar). Gene maps were prepared by comparing Col and Ler sequences using published ESTs (TAIR) and cloned Ler cDNAs (see below). Intergenic regions upstream of the start codon of each AtFLS isoform (1,002 bp for AtFLS1, 1,109 bp for AtFLS2, 768 bp for AtFLS3, 645 bp for AtFLS4, and 1,374 bp for AtFLS5) were amplified from Ler genomic DNA by PCR using Elongase (Invitrogen) or Taq polymerase, incorporating a SphI site in the forward primers and HindIII in the reverse primers (Supplemental Table S1). The fragments were first cloned into pBluescript KS+ (Stratagene) and sequences were confirmed prior to subcloning into the BamHI/HindIII sites in the binary vector pBI121 (Clontech), replacing the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. AtFLS:pGUS fusion constructs and positive and negative controls (pBI121 and pBI101 vectors, respectively) were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101) and then used to transform Ler plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Ten independent transgenic T1 lines were selected for each construct and control vector on solid Murashige and Skoog growth medium with 0.005% (w/v) kanamycin. Transgenic lines were confirmed by PCR using the forward primers (Supplemental Table S1) with a reverse primer complementary to the 5′ end of the GUS gene, 5′-ACTTTGCCGTAATGAGTG-3′. To test for the expression of promoter-GUS constructs, T2 plants were grown on soil (six plants per pot) for 3, 9, 16, 23, 30, 37, 44, and 51 d as described above or in a semihydroponic system for infection with Orobanche aegyptiaca as described by CITATION. GUS activity was assayed using a histochemical procedure modified from CITATION. Plants were submerged in 90% (v/v) 4°C acetone for 15 min and rinsed in water, and soil particles were removed from roots using forceps. Plants were then blotted on tissue paper, placed into microcentrifuge tubes, covered with staining solution [50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, 0.5 mm K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mm K4Fe(CN)6, and 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (cyclohexylammonium salt; Gold Biotechnology)], vacuum infiltrated three times for 30 s at 5 to 10 Torr, and then incubated overnight at 37°C. Chlorophyll was removed with subsequent rinses of 15%, 30%, 50%, 75%, 80%, and 100% (v/v) ethanol. GUS-stained plants were then transferred to water in petri dishes (16 d or older plants) or onto glass microscope slides and photographed using a digital camera system (3CCD; MIT) mounted on a dissecting microscope (Stemi SVII Apo; Zeiss). Tissues from two independent biological replicates of representative developmental stages were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit with optional DNase treatment (Qiagen). cDNA was prepared from 5 μg of total RNA in a 33-μL final volume using the NotI-d(T)18 primer and other standard components included with the First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Amersham Biosciences). The resulting cDNA served as a template for PCR amplification of either 0.3 kb of each AtFLS isoform or 0.5 kb of β-tubulin (At5g62690; CITATION) as a control using the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. RT-PCRs contained 20 pmol of each primer, 2 mm deoxynucleoside triphosphate, 0.5 unit of Taq polymerase (New England Biolabs), and template cDNA (either 2.5 μL of cDNA for AtFLS reactions or 0.5 μL of cDNA for β-tubulin reactions). Reactions used the following parameters: 94°C for 2 min, and 26 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 60°C (AtFLS1, AtFLS2, and β-tubulin) or 56°C (AtFLS3 and AtFLS5) for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min. cDNA clones for AtFLS1, AtFLS2, AtFLS3, and AtFLS5 in pBluescript KS+ (described below) were used as a positive control for cDNA amplification at 56°C and 60°C (50 ng of vector per reaction). These constructs were also used to confirm the specificity of the primers. A second independent (biological) replicate of this experiment was performed and produced similar results. The AtFLS1 coding region was amplified by PCR from cDNA generated using the iScript cDNA Synthesis Kit (Bio-Rad) and RNA isolated with the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) from 15-d-old Arabidopsis Ler roots. The AtFLS2 coding region was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis Col EST clone SQ202h01 (accession no. AV564339). AtFLS3 and AtFLS5 were amplified by RT-PCR utilizing RNA isolated from 4-d-old Arabidopsis Ler seedlings using the method described by CITATION. All reactions used primers that incorporated EcoRI and XhoI sites (Supplemental Table S1) to allow cloning into the corresponding sites in pET32a (Novagen). An AtFLS1/AtFLS5 chimeric construct was generated by amplifying a 925-bp fragment from the SphI site in pET32a through the first 120 bp in AtFLS1 using the primers shown in Supplemental Table S1. The product was used to replace the corresponding fragment in pET32a-AtFLS5. The integrity of all clones was confirmed by DNA sequencing. It should be noted that although the AtFLS1, -3, and -5 sequences were derived from the Ler ecotype, identical products are encoded by the corresponding genes in Col. The pET-FLS constructs were used to transform BL21(DE3) pLysS cells and produce recombinant protein essentially as described by CITATION. Expression was induced by the addition of isopropylthio-β-galactoside to 1 mm final concentration and incubation for 4 h at room temperature and 250 rpm. Similar levels of expression were observed for all of the constructs, as assessed by SDS-PAGE. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 7,400g and 4°C for 10 min and stored at −80°C. Frozen cells were resuspended in 3 mL of 0.2 m Gly (pH 8.5) and lysed by sonication on ice. The resulting cell slurry was centrifuged at 16,170g and 4°C for 40 min, and the supernatant was used as the source of crude enzyme in activity assays. The FLS assay was based on the method of CITATION. Each 100-μL reaction contained 10 mm α-ketoglutaric acid (disodium salt), 10 mm ascorbic acid, 0.25 mm ferrous sulfate, 50 mm Gly (pH 8.5), and 0.1 mm substrate. All flavonoid compounds were dissolved in 80% HPLC-grade methanol at a starting concentration of 10 mm. The ferrous sulfate solution was prepared in 50 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, containing 10 mm ascorbic acid to inhibit the oxidation of Fe2+. All other assay components were suspended in 50 mm HEPES, pH 7.5. The solutions were degassed under vacuum for 10 min, equilibrated under N2 for 5 min, and again degassed under vacuum for 10 min immediately before use. Activity assays were performed at 25°C for up to 60 min using crude extracts containing similar amounts of each recombinant protein (approximately 3.5–100 μg, depending on the experiment, as assessed by comparison with a dilution series of bovine serum albumin on a Coomassie Blue-stained SDS-PAGE gel). Reactions were initiated by the addition of substrate and terminated by extraction with ethyl acetate (1:1, v/v), performed by adding 200 μL of ethyl acetate and mixing well for 1 min. Solvent layers were separated by centrifugation at 13,000 rpm for 5 min. A 100-μL aliquot of the organic layer was then reextracted with another 200 μL of ethyl acetate and 200 μL of the organic layer combined with the initial 100 μL of extract (R. Lukacin, personal communication). The solvent was evaporated in a SpeedVac under low heat. Dried samples were reconstituted in 50 μL of 80% methanol, mixed for 5 min, and spun at 13,000 rpm. Supernatants were analyzed by HPLC using a Waters system with a 2996 photodiode array and Millenium 3.2 or Empower 2 software. Samples were kept at 4°C prior to analysis. A 20-μL aliquot was injected and fractionated at room temperature as described by CITATION, except that the absorbance was monitored from 200 to 600 nm. The resulting data were analyzed by extracting a single wavelength chromatogram at 289 nm; an unidentified peak that coelutes with DHQ was subtracted from all of the samples. Homology models were generated for AtFLS1, AtFLS3, and AtFLS5 based on the crystal structure of Arabidopsis ANS (CITATION). The sequence of each protein was aligned with ANS, and five models were generated using MODELLER6 essentially as described by CITATION. These five structures were then combined by coordinated averaging with the first structure used as the reference, and overlay was on the backbone to generate a single structure. The resulting average structure was subjected to 500 steps of steepest descent minimization using the Sander module of AMBER7. The structure was solvated, and the net charge of the system was brought to zero by the addition of Na+ atoms using LeaP. Equilibration was performed on the water and counter ions by molecular dynamics at constant volume for 100 ps. The solvent and counter ions as well as the entire system were subjected to 500 steps of steepest descent minimization. All molecular dynamics calculations were performed using the AMBER94 force field with a time step of 2 fs and coordinates collected every 1 ps. Molecular dynamics consisted of an 80-ps heating phase to raise the temperature from 0 to 300 K, a 100-ps constant volume equilibration, and a 1-ns constant pressure phase. All calculations were performed using up to eight processors on Virginia Tech's Laboratory for Advanced Scientific Computing and Applications Linux cluster (Anantham). Final models were generated by coordinated averaging from the last 100 ps of dynamics simulation and minimization data. The solvent and Na+ ion coordinates were removed from the analyzed files using the Vi text editor to improve the visualization of the model. Models were visualized and analyzed using DeepView/Swiss-Pdb Viewer v3.7 sp5 and rendered with POV-ray v3.5. Structural comparisons were performed by aligning the isoform homology models using the DeepView iterative magic fit function and calculating the corresponding RMSD values. Coding regions for AtFLS1, AtFLS3, AtFLS5, and AtDFR were amplified from the pET32a constructs described above and for AtF3H from a pBluescript KS+ construct (CITATION) using the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. Each PCR product was then digested with SalI (AtFLS1, AtFLS3, and AtDFR), XhoI (AtFLS5), or PstI (AtF3H) and NotI and then inserted into the corresponding sites in the yeast two-hybrid vectors pBI880 and pBI881 (CITATION). Plasmids were transformed into Escherichia coli DH10B cells by electroporation. The sequence integrity of all clones was confirmed by sequencing. HF7c yeast cells (CITATION) were transformed simultaneously with bait and prey constructs essentially as described by CITATION. Several independent colonies from each transformation were used to inoculate −Leu−Trp broth and then cultured on −Leu−Trp−His solid medium at 30°C. Lines segregating for T-DNA insertions in the AtFLS1, -2, -3, -4, and -6 genes were obtained from the SALK and INRA collections; homozygous T-DNA knockout lines were obtained for AtFLS2 and AtFLS5 from GABI-KAT. These included INRA AJ588535 (insertion in the 5′ untranslated region of AtFLS1), SALK_076420 (AtFLS1 promoter), GABI 429B10 (second intron of AtFLS2), SALK_050041 (third exon of AtFLS3), SALK_002309 (third exon of AtFLS4), GABI 317E12 (first intron of AtFLS5), and SALK_003879 (third intron of AtFLS6). Homozygous lines were identified/confirmed by PCR analysis using slight modifications of the method of CITATION to extract genomic DNA from one large leaf from each plant. In the first method, extraction was in 750 μL of 50 mm Tris, pH 8, and 10 mm EDTA, pH 8. Following incubation at 65°C for 10 min, 200 μL of 5 m KOAc was added and the sample was incubated on ice for 20 min. The sample was then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 10 min, the supernatant was mixed with 750 μL of isopropanol and spun at 13,000 rpm for 10 min, and the pellet was rinsed twice in cold 80% ethanol. The pellet was then resuspended in 1 mm Tris, pH 7.5, and 0.1 mm EDTA for 15 min at 37°C. In the second method, extraction was in 350 μL of 200 mm Tris, pH 7.5, and 25 mm EDTA, pH 7.5. The samples were incubated at 65°C for 10 min and centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 10 min, and the supernatant was mixed with an equivalent volume of isopropanol followed by 5 min of incubation at room temperature. The DNA was pelleted by centrifugation at 13,000 rpm for 10 min and then resuspended overnight in 100 μL of distilled, deionized water. PCR was performed using 1 to 2 μL of each sample with the primers and annealing temperatures given in Supplemental Table S2 in a total volume of 10 to 20 μL. PCR products were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. Four-day-old seedlings were collected in preweighed 2-mL cryotubes (Corning) containing two 3-mm-diameter stainless steel balls, type 316 (Small Parts). Tissue was then flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and freeze dried for 36 to 48 h in a lyophilizer in the same tubes. For HPLC analysis of flavonols, 50 μL of 1% acetic acid in 80% methanol was added per milligram of tissue dry weight. Samples were ground by agitation for 3 min in a 5-G paint mixer (IDEX) and then clarified by centrifugation at 13,000 rpm and 4°C for 15 min. The samples were then hydrolyzed by the addition of an equal volume of 2 n HCl, followed by incubation at 70°C for 40 min. An equal volume of 100% methanol was added to prevent the precipitation of aglycones. Samples were again centrifuged at 13,000 rpm and 4°C for 15 min and then analyzed by HPLC as described above for the FLS activity assays, except that chromatograms were extracted at 365 nm. For spectrophotometric analysis of anthocyanidins, 30 μL of 1% HCl in methanol was added per milligram of tissue dry weight. Samples were ground and clarified as above, except that centrifugation was at room temperature. The supernatant was mixed with two-thirds volume of distilled, deionized water and then back extracted with an equivalent volume of chloroform to remove chlorophyll. Samples were centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 10 min, and the upper, aqueous phase was mixed with two volumes of 60% extraction buffer and 40% water. Absorbance at 530 and 657 nm was used to determine the relative levels of anthocyanidins in these samples, as described by CITATION. Three independent biological replicates were analyzed for each genotype. Seedlings were grown on the surface of Murashige and Skoog/2% Suc/agar plates under continuous light at 23°C for 4 d. Plates were rotated 90° relative to the initial growth orientation and placed at room temperature under normal ambient light conditions. Seedlings were photographed every 30 min for the first 5 h, then every 60 min for another 5 h; a final photograph was taken at 12 h. Changes in the angle of root tips relative to the original orientation were measured using Photoshop and analyzed using Microsoft Excel. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Effects on flavonol accumulation of T-DNA insertions in the AtFLS genes. Supplemental Figure S2. LC-MS analysis of flavonols in fls1. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in cloning and RT-PCR. Supplemental Table S2. Primers and annealing temperatures used to identify/confirm homozygous FLS knockout lines. Supplemental Table S3. Arabidopsis flavonoid gene homologs. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. LC-MS analysis of plant extracts.
