!~ABS~! The polyadenylation of mRNA is one of the critical processing steps during expression of almost all eukaryotic genes. It is tightly integrated with transcription, particularly its termination, as well as other RNA processing events, i.e. capping and splicing. The poly(A) tail protects the mRNA from unregulated degradation, and it is required for nuclear export and translation initiation. In recent years, it has been demonstrated that the polyadenylation process is also involved in the regulation of gene expression. The polyadenylation process requires two components, the cis-elements on the mRNA and a group of protein factors that recognize the cis-elements and produce the poly(A) tail. Here we report a comprehensive pairwise protein-protein interaction mapping and gene expression profiling of the mRNA polyadenylation protein machinery in Arabidopsis. By protein sequence homology search using human and yeast polyadenylation factors, we identified 28 proteins that may be components of Arabidopsis polyadenylation machinery. To elucidate the protein network and their functions, we first tested their protein-protein interaction profiles. Out of 320 pair-wise protein-protein interaction assays done using the yeast two-hybrid system, 56 (~17%) showed positive interactions. 15 of these interactions were further tested, and all were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and/or in vitro co-purification. These interactions organize into three distinct hubs involving the Arabidopsis polyadenylation factors. These hubs are centered around AtCPSF100, AtCLPS, and AtFIPS. The first two are similar to complexes seen in mammals, while the third one stands out as unique to plants. When comparing the gene expression profiles extracted from publicly available microarray datasets, some of the polyadenylation related genes showed tissue-specific expression, suggestive of potential different polyadenylation complex configurations. An extensive protein network was revealed for plant polyadenylation machinery, in which all predicted proteins were found to be connecting to the complex. The gene expression profiles are indicative that specialized sub-complexes may be formed to carry out targeted processing of mRNA in different developmental stages and tissue types. These results offer a roadmap for further functional characterizations of the protein factors, and for building models when testing the genetic contributions of these genes in plant growth and development.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome possesses genes that encode most of the polyadenylation factor subunits that have been described in other eukaryotes (Table CITATION; [CITATION]). Possible exceptions to this include the absence of orthologs to CFIm59/68 and Hrp1. However, this is probably due to an inability to identify, using BLAST, authentic orthologs in the large array of SR+RRM- or RRM-containing proteins encoded by the Arabidopsis genome. Many of these genes and their protein products have been studied previously. Moreover, with a few exceptions (discussed in the following), the expression of these genes can be seen in microarray studies. For the majority of these proteins, the sequence similarity with other eukaryotic counterparts (such as their human homologs) is extensive, suggestive of a conservation of function that has been preserved in the different eukaryotic lineages. However, a subset of the plant factors shares a more limited similarity with their eukaryotic counterparts. These proteins include AtCPSF30, AtCSTF64, and the FIPS and PCFS (Table CITATION). With these proteins, functional motifs are conserved, but other parts show sizable sequence divergence. Arabidopsis genes encoding plant polyadenylation factor subunits * This value is from the comparison to a homologue of Danio rerio. Although polyadenylation is expected to be essential for growth and development, the nature of some mutants impaired in Arabidopsis polyadenylation factor subunits [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION] raises the possibility that some plant polyadenylation-related genes are active at specific times during development, or in response to particular environmental cues. To explore this hypothesis, the expression of the set of Arabidopsis genes listed in Table CITATION was studied using public domain microarray data. For this study, the data available from NASC (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre) was used; normalized expression values for most of the genes listed in Table CITATION was extracted from the datasets listed in Additional file CITATION: microarray keys and data, and plotted so as to permit easy comparison. One of the Arabidopsis polyadenylation-related genes listed in Table CITATION (At4g04885, AtPCFS4) is not represented in the Affytmetrix ATH probe set and was thus not included in this study. The complete results of this study are presented in Additional file CITATION. The most interesting and salient aspects of this study are discussed in more detail in the following. As shown in Figure CITATION, the expression of most of these genes varied modestly at different stages of growth and development. The gene encoding AtPAPS3 was a pollen-specific gene (Figure CITATION). Several genes showed elevated expression in developing seeds (this pattern is typified by the AtFIPS5 and AtCSTF77 genes, respectively) while others showed reduced seed expression (AtCPSF160 is an example). Curiously, a subset of these genes showed dramatically reduced expression in pollen; this set of genes includes those encoding AtCPSF160, AtCSTF77, and AtPABN3. Meta-analysis of Arabidopsis poly(A) factor gene expression during development. Normalized expression data for the NASC Arabidopsis developmental series (Additional file CITATION) were extracted and plotted as shown. The set of genes listed in Table 1 were split into three groups; the grouping was done according to historical views of the polyadenylation complex. Thus, genes encoding CPSF and CSTF subunits are shown in the top panel, PAPS and PABN genes in the middle, and the remaining genes in the lower panel. This grouping also applies for the plots shown in Figures 3–5. The legends indicate the correspondence between the plots and the respective Arabidopsis gene identification designation. The numerical key for each array experiment is given along the X-axis. The full list of the keys can be found in the Additional file CITATION. Here is a brief description of these samples, including wt and some mutants: 1–7, root 7–21 days; 8–10, stem 7–21 days; 11–27, leaf 7–35 days; 28–38, whole plant 7–23 days; 39–49, shoot apex 7–21 days; 50–71, flowers and floral organs 21+ day; 72–79, 8 week seeds and siliques. The arrows point to the positions for mature pollen. Of all the tissues and growth stages represented in Figure CITATION, pollen was the most different. To extend this observation, the expression of all of the genes listed in Table CITATION (except for those not present in on the ATH chip) in pollen was plotted (Figure CITATION). This representation emphasizes the increased expression of AtPAPS3. As interesting, however, was the dramatic reduction in expression (more than 10-fold) of three other genes – AtCPSF160, AtCSTF77, and AtPABN3. Several other genes also had reduced levels of expression in pollen, suggestive of a tissue-specific gene expression program that may yield a modified polyadenylation complex. Normalized expression of Arabidopsis polyadenylation-related genes in mature pollen. The values for each gene in the array analysis of mature pollen were plotted as shown. A similar analysis of expression in response to various abiotic stresses revealed that most polyadenylation-related genes responded modestly, if at all, to the battery of stresses represented in the NASC dataset (Figure CITATION). For the most part, polyadenylation-related genes were unresponsive to chemical or hormone treatments (Figure CITATION). Cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein biosynthesis, increased the expression of the AtPAPS1 and AtPAPS3 genes, suggesting that these mRNAs are relatively unstable [CITATION]. Many of these genes were affected by mutations in giberrellic acid-related pathways and were induced by imbibition, probably reflecting induction of expression upon germination. This was most predominant with the AtFIPS3 gene, the expression of which was rather GA and imbibition-dependent. Meta-analysis of Arabidopsis poly(A) factor gene expression in different abiotic stress conditions. Normalized expression data for the NASC Arabidopsis abiotic stress series (Additional file CITATION) were extracted and plotted as shown. The legends indicate the correspondence between the plots and the respective Arabidopsis gene identification designation. The numerical key for each array experiment is given along the X-axis and the detail can be found in Additional file CITATION. Here is a brief list of the stress treatments: 1–18, control; 19–30, cold; 31–42, osmotic; 43–54, salt; 55–68, drought; 69–80, genotoxic; 81–92, oxidative; 93–106, UV-B; 107–120, wound; 121–136, heat; 137–141, cell culture control; 142–149, cell culture + heat. Meta-analysis of Arabidopsis poly(A) factor gene expression in response to chemicals and hormones. Normalized expression data for the NASC Arabidopsis chemical/hormone series (Additional file CITATION) were extracted and plotted as shown. The legends indicate the correspondence between the plots and the respective Arabidopsis gene identification designation. The numerical key for each array experiment is given along the X-axis, and the detail can be found in Additional file CITATION. The single arrows indicate the position for cycloheximide; double arrows for GA mutants; empty arrows for imbibition and ABA treatment. The responses of these genes to various pathogen-related stimuli (inoculation with bacterial of fungal pathogens, treatment with elicitors of defense responses) was modest, with no poly(A) – related gene showing more than 3-fold variation in response to the different treatments (Figure CITATION). Dark or different light treatments had little effects on the expression of these genes (sample 37–52 in Figure CITATION). Meta-analysis of Arabidopsis poly(A) factor gene expression in response to biotic stress and different light treatments. Normalized expression data for the NASC Arabidopsis biotic stress series (Additional file CITATION) were extracted and plotted as shown. The legends indicate the correspondence between the plots and the respective Arabidopsis gene identification designation. The numerical key for each array experiment is given along the X-axis. While the full list of the agents can be found in Additional file CITATION, here is a brief list: 1–16, control and Pseudomonas syringae infection; 17–22, control and Phytophthora infection; 23–36, control and elicitors treatment; 37–52, dark and different light treatment. To better understand the functioning of the various plant polyadenylation factor subunits, a comprehensive set of pair-wise interaction assays was conducted. For this, a standard yeast two-hybrid approach was adopted. The protein coding regions for each of the Arabidopsis genes listed in Table CITATION were cloned into the "AD" and "BD" yeast two-hybrid plasmids as described [CITATION,CITATION]. For most of these genes, the entire coding region was used. However, in some cases, the proteins were "broken" into domains, based on their predicted structures. This set of constructs (Additional file CITATION: Y2H constructs) was then used to collate an exhaustive pair-wise interaction map of the polyadenylation factor subunits. In these assays, both combinations of clones (e.g., AD-AtCPSF160 + BD-AtCPSF100 as well as the converse BD-AtCPSF160 + AD-AtCPSF100 combination) were tested whenever possible. Some combinations could not be tested, since several of the proteins possessed transcriptional activation domain activity in the yeast system (Additional file CITATION: Y2H constructs). Interactions were assessed by plating several double transformants from "non-selective" media (media that allows for identification of the double transformants) on which growth is possible only if there exists an interaction between the test subjects. All such tests included negative controls (cotransformation of the AD or BD recombinant with "empty vector" AD or BD plasmid) and positive controls [the SFN1/SFN4 combination [CITATION], or the AtCSTF77-AtCSTF64 combination, reported as being positive [CITATION], and confirmed in this study). The results of this exercise are summarized in Additional file CITATION (Yeast_2_Hybride_results). Of the 320 tested interactions, 56 (or 17.5%) proved to be positive. Limited confirmation tests suggest that these interactions are all authentic. Specifically, 15 independent tests, using in vitro or co-purification techniques, have confirmed the interactions (Table CITATION), and no tested two-hybrid interaction has been contradicted by other tests. Thus, the positive interactions listed in Additional file CITATION are reliable. Independent confirmation of the yeast two-hybrid results The positive interactions (Additional file CITATION) were displayed using Cytoscape (Figure CITATION). From this exercise, it is apparent that the interaction network indicated by the two-hybrid study is extensively interconnected, as they are found to interact in the reciprocal yeast two-hybrid assays in most cases (e.g. AD-AtCPSF100 + BD-AtCPSF73-I, and BD-AtCPSF100 + AD-AtCPSF73-I; in some cases, due to self-activation of the BD constructs, such reciprocal tests were not possible). However, it does resolves itself into three hypothetical complexes, centered around AtFIPS5, AtCPSF100, and a putative CFIIm-like complex (consisting of AtCLPS and AtPCFS orthologs), respectively. The AtFIPS5 and AtCPSF100 subcomplexes are bridged by AtCPSF30, AtCFIS1, and three AtCSTF subunits. Additionally, AtCPSF30 links the CFIIm-like complex with the others. Interestingly, the four AtPAPS isoforms and the three AtPABN isoforms are all parts of the AtFIPS5 subcomplex, although one AtPAPS isoform (AtPAPS2) is also directly linked to the AtCPSF100 subcomplex. Also of interest, one CLPS and one CFIS isoform were positioned very differently from the other isoforms in the network. Thus, while AtCLPS3 was part of the CFIIm subcomplex, AtCLPS5 interacts independently with the two AtFIPS isoforms and with one (but only one) of the AtPAPS isoforms. While AtCFIS2 interacts with AtCPSF30, AtPAPS4, and AtFIPS5, the AtCFIS1 subunit interacts only with AtFIPS5. Summary of the set of protein-protein interactions revealed by the two-hybrid assays. Interactions were compiled and displayed using the Cytoscape software package. The results of the meta-analysis of microarray data indicate that AtPAPS3 is a pollen specific gene, that AtPCPS1 and/or AtPCPS5 are probably restricted to small parts of the plants, and that pollen and seed have a reduced polyadenylation complex. When AtPAPS3 and AtPCFS1+AtPCFS5 are removed from the overall interaction network, very little changes as far as the overall topology is concerned (Figure CITATION). The CFIIm-like complex reduces to but two subunits and the FIPS-PAPS hub loses one PAPS, but the general layout and inferred functionalities are otherwise unchanged. This representation is the best estimate for the network that exists in most cells in the plant. Summary of the set of protein-protein interactions involving the products of constitutively-expressed genes. Proteins corresponding to those genes that are expressed only in specialized tissues or times of development (PAPS3, PCFS1, and PCFS5) were removed from the network shown in Figure 6. In contrast, the reduction of the pollen network is more substantial, as shown in Figure CITATION. This is apparent in the smaller size of the CPSF complex and FIPS hub. Of particular note is the absence of PABN and CFIS in the pollen network. However, these changes do not affect the overall topology of the network, which retains the CPSF and CFIIm complexes, the FIPS and CPSF30 hubs, and the bridging functions of two of the CSTF subunits. Summary of the set of protein-protein interactions involving proteins whose genes are expressed in pollen. Proteins whose genes are not expressed in pollen (see Figure 2) were removed from the network shown in Figure 6 and the results displayed using Cytoscape.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis orthologs of eukaryotic polyadenylation factor subunits were identified with BLASTP using the BLAST server of the TAIR web site [CITATION]. For this, the Arabidopsis proteins database was queried, using the default parameters. To conduct the in silico gene expression analyses (Figures CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), expression data for the Arabidopsis genes listed in Table CITATION was downloaded from the NASC web site (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre;[CITATION]). Normalized expression values were extracted, compiled (Additional file CITATION), and analyzed as indicated in the text and figure legends. The sample key for the experiments used here is presented in Additional file CITATION; this key connects the individual experiments with the various plant sample types and experimental variables. Two hybrid assays of the interactions between the different polyadenylation factor subunits were carried out as described [CITATION,CITATION]. The various protein-coding regions (see Additional file CITATION) were subcloned into pGEM as described [CITATION], excised as BglII fragments, and cloned into pGAD-C(1) and pGBD-C(1) [CITATION] to yield for activation domain (AD) and binding domain (BD) clones, respectively. AD and BD plasmids were transformed into PJ69-4 [CITATION] and dual transformants (identified as colonies growing on media lacking leucine and tryptophan, the selective markers for these two plasmids) subsequently tested on media lacking leucine, tryptophan, and adenine (the latter being one of the scorable markers for interactions). Positive interactions were those in which all tested colonies (between 4 and ten) grew on the adenine-free media. Negative controls for these tests included transformations with combinations of plasmids that included unmodified pGAD-C(1) or pGBD-C(1). For positive controls, the SFN1/SFN4 combination [CITATION], or the AtCSTF77-AtCSTF64 combination, reported by Yao et al. [CITATION] as being positive, were used. Interactions were scored as either positive or negative. The set of positive interactions were compiled as .sif files and displayed using Cytoscape 2.2 [CITATION].
