!~ABS~! The transcription factor ABA-Insensitive5 (ABI5) is a key regulator of ABA signaling and stress response in Arabidopsis seeds and seedlings. Potential ABI5-interacting proteins were identified by a yeast two-hybrid screen; the most prevalent interactors were a family of four highly conserved plant-specific proteins with no domains of known function, but homology to a previously characterized ABI Five Binding Protein (AFP). This study compares expression and function of the family members. The AFPs are induced by ABA and/or dehydrating stresses in young seedlings, but the developmental timing of their induction differs. Mutations in AFP1 or AFP2 result in increased sensitivity to ABA and salt, whereas afp4 mutants are mildly ABA-resistant. AFP2, like AFP1, acts epistatically to ABI5. Reduced germination or seedling growth of the mutants under stress correlates with a higher level of ABI5 protein when compared to wild-type seedlings, but it is not clear whether this is a cause or effect of the reduced growth. Although both ABI5 and the AFPs are ABA-induced, the ABI5:AFP ratio increases at high ABA concentrations, maintaining growth inhibition under severe stress. An AFP2:GFP fusion, which complements the afp2 mutation, is nuclear-localized in seedlings exposed to stress, but becomes delocalized before being degraded following removal of stress. The AFPs may also interact to varying extents with many ABI5-related bZIP transcription factors. This study suggests that germination and seedling growth are regulated by antagonistic interactions among at least two functionally redundant families, the AFPs and the ABI5-related proteins, providing a mechanism to fine-tune seedling stress responses.
!~RES~! We used a GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD)-ABI5 fusion protein as “bait” to screen a GAL4 activation domain (AD)-cDNA fusion library of transcripts from 3-day-old de-etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings (Kim et al. CITATION). Out of approximately 2 million transformants screened, we analyzed more than 100 positive clones, over half of which encoded four members of a plant-specific protein family. During our analysis of this family, one family member (At1g69260) was identified in an independent screen for ABI5-interacting proteins and designated ABI FIVE binding protein, AFP (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION). Consequently, we propose naming the family members as AFP1 (At1g69260), AFP2 (At1g13740), AFP3 (At3g29575), and AFP4 (At3g02140). Recently, AFP4 was described as TMAC2 (two or more ABREs-containing gene 2), and shown to be ABA- and salt-regulated (Huang and Wu CITATION). The AFPs are members of a small plant-specific protein family that share three highly conserved domains, designated A, B and C (Fig. 1). A BLAST sequence homology search identified related genes in Arabidopsis, (AFP homologs: AFPH1, At3g07250 and AFPH2, At4g28910), Oryza sativa (rice AFPH) and Helianthus annuus (sunflower, HaABRC5) (Liu and Baird CITATION). Additional related genes are present in rice and other species but they lack at least one of the conserved domains. Even though the A, B and C domains are conserved within the AFP family they are not homologous to any domains of known function, except for the presence of a putative nuclear localization signal in the B domains of AFP1, AFP2, and AFP3. The degree of similarity over the entire protein revealed by T-coffee alignment (Notredame et al. CITATION) varies among the family members (Supplementary Figure 2), which may reflect functional differences. The B domains of AFPH1 and AFPH2 are most divergent. These homologs also differ in that the AFPH1 protein is predicted to contain an additional carboxyl terminal region of 665 amino acids including a putative nuclear targeting sequence and a putative RNA binding domain, whereas the AFPH2 protein includes an additional region homologous to the beta subunit of urease. However, no cDNAs have been reported for AFPH1 so it may be a pseudogene. [[FIGURE]]  Several of the clones isolated in our yeast two-hybrid screen were partial cDNAs, some of which encoded only the C domain, demonstrating that this domain is sufficient for the interaction with ABI5. In fact, fusions containing only the C domains show even stronger interactions with ABI5 than those including full-length AFPs (Fig. 2A). Failure to identify AFPH1 or AFPH2 in the yeast two-hybrid screen led us to subclone the C domain of each homolog from genomic DNA and test for an interaction with ABI5 in yeast. Despite the strong similarity in the C domain, neither fusion protein produced a significant interaction with ABI5, suggesting that these family members are functionally distinct from those isolated in the screen. In addition to interacting with ABI5, several of the AFPs interacted with each other in the yeast two-hybrid assay (Fig. 2B), indicating that they can form homo- or heterodimers. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate whether the AFPs function in ABI5-dependent responses, AFP loss-of-function lines were analyzed. T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the SALK SIGnAL (afp1-3, afp1-4, afp2-1, afp2-2 and afp3; Col ecotype) or FLAGdb/FST (afp4; Ws ecotype) collections (Fig. 3). Homozygous lines for the afp1-3, afp1-4, afp2-1, and afp3 insertions, which all disrupt upstream regions, were isolated and confirmed as knockdown lines, showing reduced levels of endogenous transcript. These residual transcripts are unlikely to reflect cross-hybridization within the family because the transcripts differ in size and are at most 69% homologous. The afp4 line is likely to be a knockout because the insertion is within the coding sequence. The afp2-1 and afp4 lines each contained high levels of abnormally large AFP-homologous transcripts. We used 5′ Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends to identify the larger transcripts for afp2-1 as fusions of the T-DNA and AFP2 gene. Analyses of the predicted junction sequences indicated that these fusions are unlikely to code for functional proteins due to the presence of multiple stop codons. The afp2-2 allele has an insertion in the coding sequence, but appears to have a rearrangement that maintains both the wild-type and insertion alleles, preventing isolation of a complete loss-of-function line (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  To analyze the physiological role of each AFP family member, homozygous mutant lines were tested for altered sensitivity to ABA, salt (NaCl), sugar (glucose) or osmotic (sorbitol) stress (Fig. 4 and Supplementary Figure 3). Stress sensitivity varies substantially among seed lots depending on seed growth and storage conditions; analyses were further complicated by differential changes occurring during after-ripening, possibly reflecting differences in dormancy (Table 1). The afp2-1 mutants were consistently hypersensitive to salt, glucose, and osmotic stress, and were hyperdormant, but were only mildly hypersensitive to ABA. In contrast to the ABA hypersensitivity reported for the afp1-1 and afp1-2 mutants (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION), the afp1-4 mutants showed only slight hypersensitivity to ABA, salt and osmotic stress in freshly harvested seeds, which attenuated over time in storage (Fig. 4A–C). Similar results were obtained for afp1-3 mutants (data not shown). The differences between previously reported and recently isolated afp1 mutant lines might reflect different growth conditions during seed maturation or leaky expression of these knockdown lines. However, AFP1 protein levels were severely reduced in afp1-4 (Supplementary Figure 4). Afp1-4, afp2-1 digenic mutants were slightly more sensitive to ABA than their monogenic parents, consistent with partial redundancy of these loci (Supplementary Figure 5). Although TMAC2/AFP4 was previously described as a negative regulator of ABA and stress signaling based on overexpression and RNAi knockdown lines, the knockout line was mildly resistant to ABA and salt (Fig. 4D), suggesting a positive role in response to these stresses. However, afp4 mutants showed decreased germination on high concentrations of Glc and sorbitol (Fig. 4B, Supplementary Figure 3). Consistent with the mild physiological differences of the mutant seeds, no major changes in expression of ABI5-regulated dry seed transcripts such as AtEm1 and AtEm6 were observed (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Genetic relationships between the AFP loci and ABI5 were analyzed by comparing germination behavior of double mutants versus their monogenic mutant parents. The afp2,abi5 double mutant displays an abi5-like ABA insensitive phenotype indicating that ABI5 is epistatic to AFP2 and thus acts downstream (Fig. 4E), similar to results reported for an afp1-1,abi5 double mutant (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION). The afp4,abi5 double mutant did not show a greater resistance to ABA than its monogenic parents, indicating that these loci do not function redundantly (data not shown). Analyses of AFP family transcript accumulation and promoter activity demonstrate that all are regulated by ABA/stress signaling in seeds and young seedlings and are co-expressed with ABI5 during this developmental window, but they differ slightly in timing and stress responsiveness (Fig. 5). Transcript levels were measured in total RNA extracted from dry seeds, seeds harvested after dormancy-breaking cold treatment (stratification), and in young seedlings in the presence of ABA, salt, glucose or sorbitol, an osmo-stress equivalent to the salt and glucose treatments (Fig. 5A). ABI5 and AFP2 are present in dry seeds and stressed seedlings, but decline following stratification in the absence of stress. AFP1, AFP3 and AFP4 are expressed at low to undetectable levels in dry seeds and directly after stratification. AFP1 and AFP3 transcripts accumulate by 2 days following stratification in the presence of ABA and increase over time in the presence of all stresses. In slight contrast, AFP4 appears to increase following stratification even without stress treatment but its expression is higher in stressed seedlings. TMAC2/AFP4 was also shown to be highly induced by ABA or salt stress in older plants (Huang and Wu CITATION). As described by Lopez-Molina et al. (CITATION), AFP1 expression increases several days after stratification, and may assume a more important role post-germination. Publicly available microarray data from the Nambara lab shows that AFP2 is the most abundantly expressed family member in maturing and dry seeds (Fig. 5B), whereas studies from the Shimada and Harter labs show that AFP1 and AFP3 are most abundant and strongly stress-induced in older plants (Fig. 5C, D) (Toufighi et al. CITATION; Kilian et al. CITATION). Among the AFPs, AFP2 expression is most similar to that of ABI5. [[FIGURE]]  Abiotic stresses may be mediated by ABA-dependent or -independent mechanisms (Zhu CITATION; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki CITATION). Therefore, an ABA deficient mutant line, aba1-1 (Koornneef et al. CITATION), was used to determine if AFP expression in dry seeds or 5-day-old stressed seedlings is dependent on de novo ABA biosynthesis (Fig. 6). AFP1, AFP2 and ABI5 transcript levels are much lower in response to stress in the aba1 mutant, whereas AFP3 and AFP4 levels are only slightly reduced in the mutant. AFP2 and ABI5 expression are also reduced in dry seeds in the aba1 mutant line. Thus, stress-induction of AFP1, AFP2, and ABI5 expression is mostly ABA dependent, whereas stress-induction of AFP3 and AFP4 is partly ABA-independent. [[FIGURE]]  RNA gel blot analyses show that each AFP is co-expressed with ABI5 under some conditions, allowing for the possibility of interactions in planta. Tissue specificity of expression was examined using transgenic plant lines expressing AFP promoters fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (P AFP :GUS). GUS staining patterns were analyzed in a variety of tissues and developmental stages. The highest overall expression of the differentially expressed AFPs and ABI5 was seen in 5-day-old stressed seedlings (Fig. 7), where the AFP promoters all show activity that overlaps with ABI5 promoter activity. Several of the AFPs and ABI5 also have distinct and/or overlapping expression profiles later in development as demonstrated by the comparison of GUS staining in leaves and flowers. Promoters of AFP2 and AFP3 are active throughout leaves whereas AFP4 promoter activity is primarily vascular. ABI5 promoter activity is also present in vascular tissue of young leaves, but confined to hydathodes of mature leaves (Fig. 7; Brocard et al. CITATION). There appear to be many instances of co-expression, providing the opportunity for the encoded proteins to be present together and interact in planta. [[FIGURE]]  To test for co-localization at the subcellular level, a transgenic line expressing an AFP2-GFP fusion was also analyzed. The AFP2:GFP fusion construct contains the putative AFP2 promoter region (1.5 kb of sequence upstream of the AFP2 coding sequence) driving expression of the AFP2 cDNA fused to the GFP gene. This fusion protein complements the afp2 mutant phenotype indicating that wild-type protein function is maintained (Fig. 8A). The AFP2 gene contains a putative NLS and, accordingly, the AFP2-GFP was observed in the nuclei of young stressed seedlings exposed to ABA or NaCl (Fig. 8B). ABI5-GUS and ABI5-GFP fusions have demonstrated similar localization patterns for ABI5 (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION, CITATION), although the donut-like localization of AFP2 appears to be a unique feature of this protein. Nuclear localization has also been demonstrated for AFP1 and AFP4 in transient expression assays (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION; Huang and Wu CITATION). However, the nuclear localization of AFP2-GFP is stress-dependent; fluorescence disappears within 7 h of removal from stress conditions, even though these seedlings still retain 70–80% of the fusion protein present prior to removal from stress (Fig. 8C, D). ABI5 levels also decrease upon removal from ABA, whereas extended exposure to ABA maintains both proteins at or above their initial levels (Fig. 8E), indicating that their concurrent localization in nuclei is not sufficient to induce loss of ABI5. [[FIGURE]]  The variations in ABI5-dependent processes and gene expression in the afp mutant lines may reflect changes in the expression, activity, localization and/or stability of ABI5. To address possible changes in ABI5 stability, we compared ABI5 accumulation in wild-type and afp mutant lines. ABI5 protein migrates as a doublet of which the higher molecular weight form is phosphorylated (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION). Phosphorylation of ABI5 and related bZIPs is correlated with increased activity as transcription factors. Western analysis demonstrated that ABI5 protein levels are unaffected in the afp1-3, afp1-4, afp2 and afp4 mutant lines exposed to ABA levels sufficient to inhibit seedling growth, i.e. at least 3 μM (Fig. 9A and data not shown), even though all contain either severe knockdown or knockout mutations. However, ABI5 levels were slightly higher in the afp1 and afp2 mutants exposed to an ABA concentration low enough to permit germination, but inhibit growth of the mutants slightly more than that of wild-type. This is in surprising contrast to a previous report showing that ABI5 protein levels are significantly higher in the afp1-1 ABA hypersensitive line (Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION). This discrepancy may reflect the difference between the relatively mild ABA hypersensitivities of the afp1-3, afp1-4, and afp2 lines as compared with the previously reported afp1 alleles. [[FIGURE]]  A more striking mutant phenotype was observed when afp2 seeds were exposed to high salt concentrations. After 7 days on salt, 70% of the wild-type seeds have germinated, but only 40% have acquired green cotyledons. In contrast, afp2 growth was strongly inhibited under these conditions: only 20% of the mutants germinated and only 6% were greening. Accordingly, the afp2 mutant has higher levels of ABI5 protein than wild-type under salt stress (Fig. 9B). Subdivision of the wild-type salt-stressed mixed germinating vs. green seedling populations revealed that the seedlings with green cotyledons have low levels of ABI5, which reflects the low levels of ABI5 transcript. Wild-type salt-stressed seedlings that are just beginning to germinate also have less ABI5 protein than the non-germinating afp2 mutant seeds even though the levels of ABI5 transcript are at least as high in the wild-type population as in the mutants. Although these results demonstrate a correlation between AFP2 function and decreased ABI5 accumulation, it is unclear whether AFP2 promotes ABI5 degradation or the transition to the next stage of growth and development, which results in ABI5 degradation. In contrast to ABI5, AFP1 and AFP2 negatively regulate ABA and stress response, yet all are induced by stress treatments in young seedlings, suggesting that they may function in a feedback loop. To determine whether seedling growth reflects the balance between these positive and negative regulators, we measured ABI5 and AFP1/2 protein levels in seedlings exposed to a series of ABA concentrations for different periods of time. Although the absolute concentrations vary, along with germination behavior, among seed lots, growth inhibiting conditions are characterized by higher ABI5:AFP1/2 ratios (Fig. 10). After 5 days, ABI5 levels are similarly high on 3–10 μM ABA, but AFP1/2 is maximal at 3 μM (Fig. 10B, C) and growth is suppressed at ABA concentrations exceeding 3 μM (Supplementary Figure 6). By 8d, AFP1/2 levels increase on even the higher ABA concentrations resulting in lower ABI5:AFP1/2 ratios (Fig. 10C, D); this is correlated with the eventual growth of these seedlings. [[FIGURE]]  Some aspects of the afp family mutant phenotypes can not be fully explained via effects on ABI5-dependent activities, suggesting that the AFPs may interact with additional factors. An obvious set of candidate interactors are the other members of the ABI5-like bZIP family, many of which are also co-expressed with the AFPs in a variety of tissues. To begin to test the possibility that these families participate in multiple interactions, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays using AD-AFP and BD-bZIP protein fusions. In this assay, the AFPs appear to interact, to varying extents, with most of the ABI5-homologous bZIP family members tested (Fig. 11A). In fact, by this assay, the interactions between ABF1 and nearly all the AFPs appear even stronger than those between ABI5 and the AFPs. [[FIGURE]]  Since most of the AFPs show stress-regulated expression, and all contain at least two potential ABREs in their promoter regions, potential cross-regulation of transcript accumulation was tested in various abi, abf and afp mutant lines (Fig. 11B). No significant differences among these genotypes were observed for AFP1 and AFP2 transcript levels in dry seeds (data not shown). In contrast, induction of AFP3 and AFP1 in 10d old plants by a brief exposure to ABA was reduced in abf3 mutants, consistent with the role of ABF3 as a major bZIP regulator of ABA and stress response at this stage (Finkelstein et al. CITATION). AFP3 also appears slightly overexpressed in afp2 mutants, suggesting that it could provide some compensatory function in the mutant.
!~MM~! A translational fusion between the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD) and an ABI5 cDNA, lacking the sequence encoding the first eight amino acids, was constructed as reported in Nakamura et al. (CITATION). Translational fusions between GAL4 BD and the ABI5 related bZIPs (ABF1, ABF3.1, ABF3.2, ABF4, AREB3, AtDPBF2, and EEL) were constructed as described in Finkelstein et al. (CITATION). Yeast strain PJ69-4A was first transformed with pGBD-ABI5, followed by transformation with an Arabidopsis λ-ACT cDNA expression library (ABRC stock CD4-22; Kim et al. CITATION) using the alkali cation yeast transformation kit, according to manufacturer’s instructions (Bio101, Vista, CA, USA). Transformed yeast were initially plated onto Complete Synthetic Medium (CSM) (Bio101) lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine. After growth for 7–9 days, colonies were replica plated onto CSM lacking leucine, tryptophan, histidine and adenine and allowed to grow for several days. GAL4AD fusion plasmids were recovered by using yeast total DNA preps to transform HB101, followed by selection for complementation of the leucine auxotrophy. Inserts were then sequenced using a nested forward primer: 5′CCA AAA AAA GAG ATC TGG AAT TCG3′. Sequencing reactions were performed using ABI big dye and displayed on an ABI Prism 310 Genetic Analyzer according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). Sequences were analyzed using the Accelrys Inc. GCG Software. Gene fusions were transformed into the yeast cell line PJ69-4A using the EZ yeast transformation kit, according to manufacturer’s instructions (Bio101, Vista, CA, USA). The pACT- or pGAD- and pGBD-plasmid fusions were maintained in yeast by using selective media lacking leucine and tryptophan, respectively. Quantitative assays of GAL4-BD driven ß-galactosidase gene expression were performed following a standard protocol, as described in Nakamura et al. (CITATION). All plants were grown in pots in growth chambers under continuous light at 22°C. The abi5-1 (Finkelstein CITATION) and aba1-1 (Koornneef et al. CITATION) mutants are in the Wassilewskija (Ws) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) backgrounds, respectively. The afp mutant lines were obtained from the SIGnAL (afp1-3, afp1-4, afp2, and afp3; Columbia (Col) background) or FLAG (afp4; Ws background) T-DNA insertion line collections (Samson et al. CITATION; Alonso et al. CITATION). Homozygous insertion lines were identified by screening for 100% kanamycin resistance and/or confirmed by PCR amplification of T-DNA junction fragments with the left border primer and a gene-specific primer. A lack of the endogenous product from two gene-specific primers flanking the insertion was also required. The NPTII gene conferring kanamycin resistance is no longer active in the afp1 and afp3 lines.  AFPpromoter:GUS (P AFP :GUS) lines were constructed in pBI101 (Jefferson et al. CITATION) as translational fusions containing approximately 1.5 kb of upstream genomic sequence and the first 18 codons for AFP2, 15 codons for AFP3, and 8 codons for AFP4. The data presented displays results from one representative transgenic line for each P AFP :GUS fusion. The P ABI5 :GUS line is as described in Brocard et al. (CITATION). The AFP2:GFP fusion was constructed in two parts. A DNA fragment containing 1.5 kb of AFP2 upstream genomic sequence and 314 nucleotides of the 5′ end of the AFP2 gene was amplified by PCR and ligated into the EcoRV site of pBluescript II KS+ (pBS; Stratagene). The second half of the GFP construct was made by fusing a BglII/DraI AFP2 cDNA fragment, lacking the first 90 nucleotides and the final stop codon, to the GFP coding region from pSMGFP with the GFP at the 3′ end of the gene. The AFP2 promoter/5′ end and the AFP2:GFP constructs were fused via an XbaI site internal to both. A SacII/HindIII/blunt fragment, containing the AFP2 promoter driving expression of an AFP2:GFP fusion gene, was ligated into SacI/HindIII/blunt digested pEGAD vector (accession 4775612) (Cutler et al. CITATION). Binary plasmids carrying transgenes were introduced into A. tumefaciens line GV3101 by direct transformation, followed by selection for growth on kanamycin. Plant transformation of both Col and Ws ecotypes was performed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens in the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). P AFP :GUS transformants were selected for growth in the presence of 40 μg/ml of kanamycin. The AFP2:GFP transgene was introduced into the afp2 mutant line. Transgenic plants were selected on the basis of BASTA resistance and then tested for complementation of the ABA hypersensitivity phenotype. Double mutants were generated from plant crosses. The afp2,abi5, afp4,abi5, and afp1,afp2 double mutant lines were selected from F2 populations based on kanamycin resistance and PCR confirmation of genotypes. Germination assays were performed with seeds surface sterilized in 5% hypochlorite and 0.02% Triton-X solution and then rinsed several times with sterile water before plating on minimal mineral salts (Haughn and Somerville CITATION) or germination medium [0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts (Murashige and Skoog CITATION), 1% sucrose, 0.05% MES, pH 5.8] containing 0.7% (w/v) agar supplemented with different concentrations of ABA, glucose, NaCl, or sorbitol. Plates were incubated for 3 days at 4°C to break any residual dormancy and then transferred to 22°C in continuous light (50–70 μE m−2 s−1). Germination, identified as radicle emergence, was scored daily. For glucose sensitivity, seedling development and anthocyanin accumulation were scored visually after 10 days. RNA was isolated from seeds and seedlings using LiCl and hot phenol extractions, respectively, as described in Finkelstein et al. (CITATION). Total RNA (1–5 μg lane−1) was size fractionated on MOPS-formaldehyde gels (Sambrook et al. CITATION), and then transferred overnight to Magna Nylon membranes (Osmonics, Westborough, MA) using 20× SSPE as blotting buffer. RNA was bound to filters by UV-crosslinking (120 mJ cm−2 at 254 nm). Transcripts for the AFPs were detected by hybridization to cDNA clones obtained from the original λ-ACT plasmids obtained in the yeast two-hybrid screen. The AFP cDNAs were isolated by enzyme digest from the λACT plasmids containing the cDNAs obtained in the original yeast two-hybrid screen. The ABI5 probe was a PCR-amplified genomic fragment excluding most of the conserved bZIP domain. Hybridization conditions were as described in Finkelstein et al. (CITATION). All hybridizations were performed in a Hyb-Aid rotisserie oven. Filters were first washed in 2× SSC and 0.1%SDS followed by the final wash in 0.2× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 60–65°C. Hybridization was quantified by Phosphoimager analysis; abundance of individual transcripts was normalized relative to rRNA present in each lane. Several of the T-DNA insertion lines expressed transcripts that were larger than the endogenous transcript as seen by RNA blot-analysis. The identity of the larger afp2 transcripts was investigated by 5′ Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends following manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), DNA sequencing and RNA blot-analysis. The junction sequence of the afp4 line includes multiple stop codons in the predicted fusion transcript, which would encode a truncated protein. For GUS localization, seedlings, leaves and flowers were infiltrated with a staining solution consisting of 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.5 mM K3/K4 FeCN, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro3-indoyl-ß-glucuronic acid and incubated overnight at 37°C (Jefferson et al. CITATION). Tissues were cleared of chlorophyll in 95% ethanol. Photographs of whole-mounted tissues were taken using a stereomicroscope. GFP expression was viewed in whole seedlings mounted on glass coverslides using a point-scanning laser confocal microscope (Olympus Fluoview 500). Images were processed with Adobe Photoshop (Mountain View, CA). A GST-tagged ABI5 fusion protein containing amino acids 10–255 of ABI5 (excluding the conserved bZIP domain) was used to generate rabbit polyclonal anti-ABI5 antibodies, which were then affinity purified (Cocalico Biologicals, Reamstown, PA). The anti-AFP antibody (described in Lopez-Molina et al. CITATION) was a gift. Although it binds most strongly to AFP1, it also cross-reacts with the two other most closely related family members: AFP2 and AFP3 (Supplementary Figure 1). Due to the similarity in size of AFP1 and AFP2, and the cross-reactivity of the antibody, we quantified these together as AFP1/2. Protein samples were isolated by homogenizing seeds or seedlings in 1× Laemmli buffer (Laemmli CITATION) using a sintered glass homogenizer (Kontes, Vineland, NJ). Samples were centrifuged for 15 min at 4°C to remove debris. Protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE on 10% polyacrylamide gels, stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, and scanned using the 700 channel of a LI-COR Imaging System (LI-COR Biosciences, Lincoln, NE) for comparison of protein concentrations. Equal amounts of protein were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and then prepared for immunoblot analysis by electroblotting to a nitrocellulose membrane for 1 h at 4°C in 25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, 20% v/v methanol. Membranes were blocked using Odyssey blocking buffer (LI-COR Biosciences) and then incubated with primary affinity purified rabbit anti-ABI5 (1:5,000) or anti-AFP (1:1,200) overnight at 4°C followed by secondary IRDye 800 conjugated affinity purified anti-rabbit IgG [Goat] (Rockland, PA) as specified by the LI-COR protocol. Antibody binding was visualized using the 800 channel of the Odyssey Infrared Imaging System (LI-COR Biosciences). Total protein concentrations were determined by comparison to BSA standards; ABI5 and AFP1/2 concentrations were determined by comparison of cross-reactivity to recombinant FLAG-tagged standards.
