!~ABS~! The exocyst, an octameric tethering complex and effector of Rho and Rab GTPases, facilitates polarized secretion in yeast and animals. Recent evidence implicates three plant homologs of exocyst subunits (SEC3, SEC8, and EXO70A1) in plant cell morphogenesis. Here, we provide genetic, cell biological, and biochemical evidence that these and other predicted subunits function together in vivo in Arabidopsis thaliana. Double mutants in exocyst subunits (sec5 exo70A1 and sec8 exo70A1) show a synergistic defect in etiolated hypocotyl elongation. Mutants in exocyst subunits SEC5, SEC6, SEC8, and SEC15a show defective pollen germination and pollen tube growth phenotypes. Using antibodies directed against SEC6, SEC8, and EXO70A1, we demonstrate colocalization of these proteins at the apex of growing tobacco pollen tubes. The SEC3, SEC5, SEC6, SEC8, SEC10, SEC15a, and EXO70 subunits copurify in a high molecular mass fraction of 900 kD after chromatographic fractionation of an Arabidopsis cell suspension extract. Blue native electrophoresis confirmed the presence of SEC3, SEC6, SEC8, and EXO70 in high molecular mass complexes. Finally, use of the yeast two-hybrid system revealed interaction of Arabidopsis SEC3a with EXO70A1, SEC10 with SEC15b, and SEC6 with SEC8. We conclude that the exocyst functions as a complex in plant cells, where it plays important roles in morphogenesis.
!~RES~! Although strong mutant alleles of the two exocyst subunit genes tested to date cause severe sporophytic (EXO70A1; CITATION) or gametophytic (SEC8; CITATION) defects in Arabidopsis, exocyst subunit mutations without phenotypic effects have also been isolated. We hypothesized that if a plant exocyst complex exists in vivo, then combining weak alleles could produce a phenotype that is more severe than that observed for each of the individual mutant alleles alone (i.e., a synergistic effect due to functional interaction). To test this prediction, we evaluated hypocotyl elongation in etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings harboring mutations both in EXO70A1 and in a second exocyst gene. The exo70A1-1 and -2 mutations are null alleles that significantly reduce the number and length of hypocotyl cells in etiolated seedlings, resulting in a shortened hypocotyl (CITATION) (Figure 1A ; P < 0.001). An exo70A1 mutation was combined with either the partially functional sec8-4 allele (CITATION; Table 1 ) or the sec5a-1 allele (likely to be a null allele for one of the two genes encoding the SEC5 subunit; see below). In contrast with exo70A1, single mutant homozygotes for either sec8-4 or sec5a-1 do not display an aberrant phenotype during vegetative development. However, the combination of either of these mutations with a mutation of exo70A1 resulted in a more severe reduction of hypocotyl elongation in etiolated seedlings than the exo70A1 mutation alone (Figure 1; P < 0.001 for both combinations). A similar result was obtained when the second partially functional SEC8 allele (sec8-6) was combined with exo70A1-2 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), arguing that this phenotypic enhancement is due to properties of the gene products and not of particular alleles. Such synergism indicates a functional relationship between these putative exocyst complex components. [[FIGURE]] Outcross Data Indicate That Mutations in Any of the Four Putative Exocyst Genes Evaluated Result in a Pollen-Specific Transmission Defect Mutants in Arabidopsis SEC8 locus have a gametophytically expressed pollen defect, resulting in reduced transmission of the mutant alleles through the male (CITATION). We hypothesized that if an exocyst complex functions in the male gametophyte, then mutations in other components of the complex should also have a male-specific transmission defect. To test this prediction, we focused our genetic studies on those exocyst genes that appear in the Arabidopsis genome as single copies (SEC6 and SEC8) or as two-copy genes that are not tandemly arranged (SEC5a/b and SEC15a/b). Initially, SEC10 was included in this list, but bioinformatic analysis along with analyses of several insertion alleles showed that this locus consists of two tandemly repeated genes (M. Elias, personal communication). Transmission frequencies were determined for T-DNA insertion mutants of exocyst genes SEC6, SEC15a, SEC5a, and SEC5b as well as for the sec5a-1 sec5b-1 double mutant. Each mutant allele was reciprocally outcrossed to wild-type plants for at least three generations (Table 1). In each instance, the mutant allele was transmitted through the female gametophyte at the expected frequency. However, in outcrosses, neither of the two independent mutant alleles (for SEC6 and SEC15a) was transmitted through the pollen. Similarly, the sec5a-1 and sec5b-1 alleles were never transmitted through the pollen together, although neither single mutation demonstrated a transmission defect (Table 1), likely reflecting a redundant function for these genes in pollen. The transmission defect of the sec6-1 and sec6-2 mutants was complemented by expression of the wild-type SEC6 coding sequence driven by the pollen-specific LAT52 promoter (see Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental Table 1 online), as had been previously demonstrated for sec8-1 and sec8-3 using LAT52:SEC8 (CITATION). RT-PCR assessment of RNA extracted from plants homozygous for the SEC5a, SEC5b, or SEC15a mutant alleles indicates that these do not produce full-length transcripts (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). (The SEC15a homozygous mutants arose at low frequencies from unassisted self-crosses of heterozygotes, likely due to decreased pollen competition in such crosses [CITATION].) The altered SEC5a, SEC5b, and SEC15a transcripts are predicted to encode truncated proteins that appear likely to be functionally impaired. Overall, the genetic evidence demonstrates that strong mutations in any of four putative complex components, SEC5, SEC6, SEC8, or SEC15a, result in a similar severe pollen-specific transmission defect. Furthermore, the molecular evidence suggests that this phenotype is associated with null, or near-null, alleles. We were interested to know if the transmission defect observed for components of the putative exocyst complex was associated with similar pollen developmental phenotypes. The male-specific transmission defect in SEC8 mutants is associated with defects in pollen germination and pollen tube growth (CITATION). However, limitations in the earlier studies (e.g., no homozygous plants were available for the most severe SEC8 alleles) prevented determination of the null phenotype in the pollen tube. To overcome these limitations, representative alleles for each of the four exocyst components with transmission defects were crossed into the quartet1 (qrt1) background. In the qrt1 background, all four products of a meiosis remain attached to each other (e.g., exactly two wild-type and two mutant pollen grains from a heterozygous plant), allowing direct observation of phenotypes in severe gametophytic mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Staining of mature pollen from plants homozygous for the qrt1 mutation and heterozygous for mutations in SEC6, SEC8, or SEC15a with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole revealed two sperm cell nuclei and a vegetative nucleus in each of the pollen grains in a quartet, and none of the grains showed obvious developmental defects. This indicates that none of these mutations severely affects early pollen grain development, including its mitotic divisions. To assess for a germination defect, pollen from qrt1 plants that were heterozygous for a mutation in SEC6, SEC8, or SEC15a was germinated in vitro and compared with the pollen of a qrt1 sibling lacking the exocyst mutation. Due to the 2:2 distribution of the wild type versus mutant, germination of three or four pollen grains in a quartet from a heterozygote requires the germination of one or both mutant pollen grains. Thus, a pollen germination defect would reduce the relative frequency of quartets with three or four grains germinated. Indeed, we found that the sec6-1, sec6-2, sec8-1, sec8-3, sec15a-1, and sec15a-2 mutant alleles were associated with a significant reduction (P < 0.001) in the percentage of germinating quartets with three or four grains germinated, compared with their wild-type siblings (mutant frequencies, 1 to 7%; wild-type frequencies, 10 to 30%; Table 2 ). Only quartets from heterozygotes harboring the weak sec8-4 allele were not significantly different from the wild type. Percentage of Germinating Quartets with Three or Four Grains Germinated Pollen containing mutations of both SEC5 genes was studied by generating plants that were homozygous for sec5a-1 and heterozygous for sec5b-1 in the qrt1 background. These were compared with pollen from qrt1 siblings that had a mutation either in only one of the SEC5 genes or in neither. The frequency of quartets having three and four pollen grains germinating was not significantly affected by either single mutant (sec5a-1: 18%, n = 367; sec5b-1: 22%, n = 223; wild type: 23%, n = 635). By contrast, pollen from plants homozygous for sec5a-1 and heterozygous for sec5b-1 demonstrated a severe germination defect, with only 1.8% of quartets having three or four grains germinated (Table 2). These analyses revealed that, although mutation of any of the four exocyst components dramatically reduced germination, mutant grains can occasionally produce a pollen tube. Despite the rarity of such events, the arrangement of pollen into quartets allowed us to identify a defective phenotype associated with the mutant pollen tubes by assessing pollen tube length and width in quartets with at least three germinated grains. In all such cases, one or (rarely) two aberrant pollen tubes were observed (Figures 2B to 2E ). The length and width of the shortest tube in quartets with three or four germinated grains from mutant heterozygotes (or sec5a-1 homozygous; sec5b-1 heterozygous plants) and their corresponding wild-type siblings were determined. For all four exocyst components, the mutants were associated with significantly shorter and thicker pollen tubes than the shortest pollen tubes produced by the wild type (P < 0.001, n = 22 to 44 for each genotype) (Figures 2G and 2H). In addition, mutant pollen tubes were only 15 to 25% as long as the average wild-type pollen tube, whereas the length of the longer tubes in these same quartets closely resemble the wild type (Figure 2I). The aberrant pollen tubes were occasionally irregularly shaped (e.g., Figure 2E), with the observed range of shapes similar for all mutations evaluated. Again, only in sec8-4 quartets were the pollen tubes morphologically indistinguishable from the wild type (Figures 2F to 2H). Taken together, these data show that mutation of each of four putative exocyst components, SEC6, SEC8, SEC15a, or SEC5, results in similar developmental defects in both pollen germination and polarized pollen tube growth. [[FIGURE]] Defects in pollen germination and pollen tube growth observed in Arabidopsis exocyst subunit mutants imply a common function for these proteins in pollen tube germination and tip growth. If acting as a complex, all exocyst subunits should show some overlapping localization in vivo. Subunit localization was investigated using indirect immunofluorescence in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes, taking advantage of their larger size and more robust in vitro germination. Mouse polyclonal antibodies raised against recombinant Arabidopsis proteins SEC6 and EXO70A1 and a rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against an Arabidopsis SEC8 peptide all recognized homologs of these subunits in tobacco (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Preimmune sera for these antibodies showed a very weak homogenous background signal lacking any specific pattern (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). As predicted, based on a function in pollen tube tip growth, all three antibodies revealed predominant tip-focused localization of the exocyst subunits that they recognize (Figure 3 ). Bright tiny dots forming a granular pattern could be discerned within the apical signal. Behind the intense signal at the tip, the staining is much weaker. However, sparse small spots are also distributed in the cytoplasm and especially along the plasma membrane within the entire tube length. [[FIGURE]] We took advantage of the distinct sources for anti-SEC8 (rabbit) versus anti-EXO70A1 and anti-SEC6 (mouse) and demonstrated colocalization of SEC8 and EXO70 proteins and SEC8 and SEC6 proteins, respectively, by double labeling (Figures 3G and 3H). We initially observed that only the SEC6 signal was visible in the tip of pollen tubes when labeled by both anti-SEC6 and anti-SEC8 simultaneously, even though either antibody stained the tip when used alone (Figures 3C to 3F). When the procedure was adjusted such that anti-SEC8 was added first, followed by the addition of anti-SEC6 1 h later, both labels were visualized at the pollen tube tip (Figure 3H). One possible explanation for these observations is that the SEC6 antibody spatially blocks the epitope recognized by the SEC8 antibody due to close association of these two components within the exocyst complex. When we examined subcellular distribution of SEC6 and SEC8 in germinating tobacco pollen, we observed a maximum of the signal in the 100,000g pellet fraction (Figure 4 ) containing all postnuclear membranes. In both cases, only weak signal was observed in the cytosolic fraction. Moreover, the signal increased in both cases during the first 60 min of pollen germination, indicating simultaneous accumulation of exocyst subunits in the membrane fraction and implying de novo synthesis of these subunits. [[FIGURE]] Overall, we conclude that the exocyst subunits SEC6, SEC8, and EXO70 have an overlapping localization pattern predominantly at the tips of growing pollen tubes. This localization pattern is consistent with a role indicating their close spatial interaction to facilitate the intensive exocytosis at that site. Shared pollen phenotypes, colocalization at the growing pollen tube tip, and the synergism of mutations in the reduction of hypocotyl elongation provide strong, but indirect, evidence that the exocyst subunits form a functional exocyst complex in plants. We adapted chromatography methods previously used to successfully characterize the exocyst complex in yeast and mammalian cells (CITATION; CITATION) to provide more direct evidence for the existence of the exocyst complex as a biochemical entity in plant cells. Because an Arabidopsis suspension culture in its exponential growth phase expresses exocyst subunit genes at high mRNA levels (see Supplemental Figure 8 online), this cell type was chosen as a source for exocyst complex purification. Also, preliminary experiments showed cosedimentation of the putative complex with the microsomal fraction after centrifugation at 100,000g (Figure 4). Therefore, we used a crude total cell lysate depleted of heavy membranes but containing microsomes for our chromatographic analyses. To detect the complex subunits, we used the three antibodies already described above (anti-EXO70A1, anti-SEC6, and anti-SEC8) as well as anti-SEC3, anti-SEC5, and anti-SEC15a (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). Duplication of genes encoding several of the exocyst subunits in the Arabidopsis genome raises a question about antibody specificity. Based on high sequence similarity, we expect that polyclonal antibodies against SEC3 and SEC5 recognize both isoforms of respective subunits. Because the polyclonal anti-SEC15a was prepared against a peptide specific for SEC15a, we do not expect cross-reactivity with SEC15b. Conversely, we have confirmed using an exo70A1 mutant that the EXO70A1 antibody is specific to EXO70A1 (at least in the sporophyte), as it does not recognize any other proteins on protein gel blots (see Supplemental Figure 5C online). We initially performed size exclusion gel chromatography (SEGC) on a HiLoad SUPERDEX 200 column. When the resultant protein fractions were subjected to SDS-PAGE and protein gel blotting, most of the exocyst subunits were detected in high molecular mass fractions. Figure 5A shows that signals of all polyclonal antibodies form peaks with a maximum in the same fractions, suggesting a complex size of ∼900 kD. These peaks are well behind the total protein maximum (Figure 5A), suggesting specific enrichment of all putative exocyst subunits detected in these fractions. Incubation of the total lysate with 0.5 M phosphate in the lysis buffer led to similar results after SEGC, SDS-PAGE, and protein gel blots, suggesting that the presence of phosphate does not affect complex stability (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We next employed three-step purification based on the method described by CITATION to purify the mammalian exocyst. We started with high-capacity affinity chromatography on polyphosphate hydroxyapatite matrix (hydroxyapatite Bio-Gel) with discontinuous phosphate elution. All fractions were subjected to SDS-PAGE, protein gel blotting, and analyzed by anti-SEC6 and anti-SEC8 antibodies. Corresponding fractions containing both SEC6 and SEC8 were collected and prepared for the second purification step by dialysis. In the second purification step, the dialyzed fractions from the affinity chromatography were loaded onto an ion exchange chromatography column (Fractogel EMD-TMAE). All expected subunits of Arabidopsis exocyst have a calculated pI under 7, with values ranging mostly between 5.2 and 5.8. Anex resin was then used to isolate the exocyst complex in the buffer with almost neutral pH. Fractions containing exocyst antibody signals were eluted with the salt concentration between 0.35 and 0.42 M. Protein gel blot analysis of these fractions demonstrated a weakened signal for the SEC5 and especially SEC15a proteins, possibly due to a partial loss of these subunits during this purification step. The fractions obtained from ion exchange chromatography were then subjected to SEGC and protein gel blot analysis to complete the third step of the purification. Figure 5B shows that the distribution of the antibody signals demonstrates again cofractionation of exocyst subunits. All signals had only one maximum, and this occurred in fractions corresponding to a molecular mass of 750 kD. Consistent with a smaller mass for the three-step purified complex, SEC15a could not be detected, and the SEC5 signal was very weak, requiring substantially longer exposure time. This observation suggests that some subunits may form a stable core of the complex, whereas other subunits (e.g., SEC15a and SEC5) are more loosely associated, at least under these experimental conditions. Importantly, cofractionation of five exocyst subunits (SEC3, SEC5, SEC6, SEC8, and EXO70A1) was maintained through all three steps of purification. To complement identification of exocyst subunits by protein gel blot analysis following partial purification, we used liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) to analyze protein bands of expected molecular masses following the three-step purification (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This approach confirmed that the exocyst-positive fractions (by protein gel blot) contain the SEC3a, SEC6, and SEC8 subunits. In addition, SEC10 (for which we had no antibody) was also identified in these fractions (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Taken together, using a combination of analytic methods we demonstrated that SEC3, SEC5, SEC6, SEC8, SEC10, SEC15, and EXO70A1 were components of the same protein complex (for EXO84, see Discussion). To confirm data obtained from the chromatographic approach, we employed two additional methods. First, we used a blue native PAGE (BN-PAGE) technique that is based on a mild solubilization in detergent and treatment with the dye Coomassie Brilliant Blue G 250 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). After the solubilization with the mild detergent dodecyl-β-d-maltoside (DDM) in concentrations of total protein to DDM ratio of 1.33 and low NaCl concentrations (10 and 30 mM), a range of high molecular mass complexes was detected for four of the five exocyst complex components tested: SEC3, SEC6, SEC8, and EXO70A1 (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). Under the conditions of higher detergent concentrations (total protein:DDM ratio of 0.67) and no additional salt, SEC6 and EXO70A1 were predominantly present in small, rather than in high, molecular complexes (see Supplemental Figure 7B online). Notably, we observed a well-defined complex detected only by anti-SEC6 that could represent SEC6 dimers. By contrast, the SEC3 subunit was still found in larger complexes under these conditions, although running at a lower mass than at lower detergent concentrations. Again, this is consistent with loss of some subunits (e.g., SEC6 and EXO70) from the complex under certain conditions (see Discussion). To further support complex formation, the interaction abilities of one of each type of the expected exocyst subunits were tested using the yeast two-hybrid assay. We used the GAL4 system, based on the split GAL4 transcription factor controlling expression of reporter genes (Figure 6 ). We found that SEC3a, SEC10, and EXO84b showed high activation capacity when fused with the DNA binding domain alone and thus were unsuitable as bait proteins in this assay; EXO84b also showed promiscuous interactions when fused with the activation domain. However, we observed three pairs of strongly interacting subunits: EXO70A1/SEC3a, SEC15b/SEC10, and SEC6/SEC8 (Figure 6). All three pairs were confirmed by β-galactosidase assay and by the double auxotrophic marker. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Lines of Columbia-0 ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana with T-DNA insertions and the qrt1 mutant were obtained from the SALK Institute (CITATION) and GABI-Kat (CITATION). See Table 4 for gene and line codes. The location of each T-DNA insertion within a gene of interest was verified by sequencing from each end of the insert. The Arabidopsis suspension culture was derived from vegetative tissue of the Columbia-0 ecotype. For indirect immunofluorescence experiments on pollen, we exploited mature pollen of Nicotiana tabacum cv Samsun. List of Arabidopsis Mutants Used in This Work Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized, stratified at 4°C for 3 to 5 d, and planted on growth media (1× Murashige and Skoog, 2% [w/v] sucrose, and vitamins) or soil as previously described (CITATION). Plants were grown in a climate chamber at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light per day; 7500 lx), with the exception of dark-grown seedlings used in hypocotyl elongation experiments. In the hypocotyl elongation experiments, surface-sterilized, stratified, and plated seeds were placed in a lighted incubator at 22°C for 2 to 4 h to stimulate germination and then wrapped in foil, oriented vertically, and placed in a dark box in the incubator. After 5 d, images of the hypocotyls were captured with a Moticam 1000 camera attached to a Zeiss Stemi SV 11 dissecting microscope. Measurement of hypocotyl lengths was performed from the digital photographs using ImagePro software (MediaCybernetics). Flowers shedding pollen from Arabidopsis plants of the desired genotypes were placed in each well of a 96-well plate (one flower per well) containing 50 μL liquid Arabidopsis pollen germination medium [18% sucrose, 0.01% boric acid, 2 mM CaCl2, 1 mM Ca(NO3)2, and 1 mM MgSO4, with pH adjusted to 6.5 with KOH]. Each plate was incubated at 22°C overnight. A researcher blind to the genotypic source of the flowers microscopically screened the plate for wells with >50% of the quartets showing germinated pollen grains. For these wells, the number of quartets showing one, two, three, or four pollen grains germinated were counted, and images of quartets with three or four grains germinated were captured with a SPOT camera (Diagnostic Instruments) for subsequent measurement of pollen tube widths and lengths with ImagePro software. Staining of ungerminated quartet pollen with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole was performed as previously described (CITATION). Polyclonal mouse anti-At SEC3a, anti-At SEC5a, and anti-At EXO70A1 were raised against full-length proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. The anti-At SEC3a antibody was affinity purified on Ni-NTA agarose according to the manufacturer's protocol (Qiagen). Polyclonal mouse anti-At SEC6 antibody was prepared against truncated At SEC6Δ protein (At SEC6 cDNA cleaved by BamHI and religated). Polyclonal anti-At SEC8 was raised by synthesis of a peptide (C-LREELARIDESWAAA) corresponding to amino acids 16 to 30 of the predicted Arabidopsis protein, conjugation of the peptide to KLH via the N-terminal Cys (C), immunization of rabbits using a standard protocol, and affinity purification of the antibody against the peptide on a column (Genemed Synthesis). Polyclonal anti-At SEC15a was raised against a peptide (CZ-TAKKKSMDMLKKRLKEFN) corresponding to amino acids 772 to 789 (the C terminus) of the predicted Arabidopsis protein, which was conjugated to KLH via the N-terminal Cys (C), with the aminocaproic acid (Z) serving as a spacer between the Cys/KLH and SEC15a sequence. Chickens were immunized using a standard protocol, and the antibody was affinity purified against the peptide on a column (Aves Labs). Tobacco pollen was cultivated in tobacco pollen germination medium II (10% sucrose and 0.01% H3BO3) for 1 h and then fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde in PEM (50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM MgSO4, pH 6.9) containing 10% sucrose for 1 h (equal volumes of double-concentrated fixation solution and pollen suspension were mixed together). All steps were performed at room temperature unless otherwise specified. After two rinses with PEM and one rinse with PEM/PBS (1:1), pollen was treated with a cell wall–degrading enzyme mix (0.3% cellulase, 0.3% pectinase, and 0.05% pectolyase in PBS) for 20 min. After Tween 20 was added to a final concentration of 0.05%, this preparation was incubated for 10 min. After incubation in 1% BSA in PBS for 30 min, specimens were processed as follows: (1) overnight incubation with primary antibody (mouse anti-SEC6, anti-EXO70A1, and anti-tubulin DM1 [Sigma-Aldrich], or rabbit anti-SEC8, respectively) in PBS containing 1% BSA at 4°C; (2) three rinses in PBS for 10 min; (3) 1-h incubation with FITC-conjugated sheep anti-mouse antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) or TexasRed-conjugated donkey anti-rabbit antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), both diluted 1:150; (4) three rinses in PBS for 10 min. Finally, pollen was mounted into antifade mounting medium (50% glycerol with 0.1% p-phenylenediamine in PBS) and observed using an Olympus BX51 fluorescence microscope and a Zeiss LSM 5 Duo confocal laser scanning microscope. The antitubulin antibody served as a positive control for the labeling procedure, revealing a pattern of tubulin cytoskeleton typical for tobacco pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Seven-day-old Arabidopsis suspension culture cells (90 g) were ground in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle. Then, 1 mL of Sec6/8 buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 6.8, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and 0.5% Tween 20) supplemented with 1× protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich) per 1 g of the fresh weight was added and grinded again. The total lysate was sequentially centrifuged at 5000g, 10 min, and 30,000g, 30 min at 4°C. Supernatant was then supplemented with 110 mM sodium phosphate (final concentration) and applied to 25 mL hydroxyapatite column (Bio-Rad), which was equilibrated with Sec6/8 buffer supplemented with 110 mM sodium phosphate at room temperature (flow rate 24 mL/h). The column was washed with 70 mL of wash buffer (0.15 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.4, 0.15 M NaCl, and 1 mM DTT), and elution was done in 10 5-mL steps using wash buffer with a sodium phosphate concentration varying between 0.2 and 0.65 M, pH 7.4. Fractions containing exocyst subunits (protein gel blot analysis) were pooled and dialyzed twice against 1 liter of 20 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 100 mM NaCl, 0.2 mM EDTA, and 0.5 mM DTT. Dialyzed hydroxyapatite fractions were diluted with the equal volume of 20 mM Tris, pH 6.8, and loaded on the 3-mL Fractogel EMD TMAE (S) column (Merck) equilibrated with 10 mL of 20 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 50 mM NaCl, and 1 mM DTT. The column was then washed with 20 mL of equilibration buffer and eluted with 3 mL fractions containing 150 to 450 mM NaCl (50 mM increment) in equilibration buffer. All was done at 4°C using flow rate of 24 mL/min. Pooled ion exchange chromatography fractions containing exocyst subunits or 80 mg of total protein (in one-step analysis) were applied on an equilibrated (Sec6/8 buffer) Superdex300 HiLoad 26/60 column (Pharmacia) at 4°C with a flow rate 60 mL/min. Protein concentration in eluate was measured with a UV detector (254 nm). Five-milliliter fractions were taken and assayed by protein gel blot analysis. A volume of the sample containing ∼30 μg of total protein was acetone precipitated and loaded on 10% SDS-PAGE. Proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and blocked overnight with 5% nonfat dry milk in TBS (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.4, and 150 mM NaCl). Primary antibody dilutions in TBS supplemented with 0.5% Tween 20 were as follows: polyclonal mouse anti-At SEC3a, 1:500; polyclonal mouse anti-At SEC5a, 1:1500; polyclonal mouse anti-At SEC6, 1:1000; polyclonal rabbit anti-At SEC8, 1:500; polyclonal chicken anti-At SEC15a, 1:500. Appropriate secondary horseradish peroxidase–conjugated antibodies were applied followed by chemiluminescent ECL detection (SuperSignal; Amersham). Protein bands were excised from the SDS-PAGE gel in the expected area visible after Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining after the last step (i.e., SEGC fractionation) of the three-step procedure. Excised proteins were digested directly in the gel using trypsin (porcine, sequencing grade, modified; Promega) overnight at 37°C. Reversed-phase nano-LC-MS/MS was performed using an Ultimate nanoflow LC system (Dionex/LC Packings) containing the components Famos (autosampler), Switchos (loading pump and switching valves), and Ultimate (separation pump and UV detector). The LC system was coupled to a QSTAR Pulsar i Hybrid QqTOF mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex) equipped with a nanoelectrospray ion source (Column Adapter [ADPC-PRO] and distal coated SilicaTips [FS360-20-10-D-20]; New Objective). Briefly, the tryptic peptide mixtures were autosampled at a flow rate of 30 μL/min in 0.1% aqueous trifluoroacetic acid and desalted on a PepMap C18 trapping cartridge (LC Packings). The trapped peptides were eluted and separated on the analytical column (75 μm i.d. × 15 cm; PepMap C18; LC Packings) using a linear gradient of 7 to 50% solvent B (acetonitrile 84% [v/v] in 0.1% [v/v] formic acid) for 27 min at a flow rate of 220 nL/min and ionized by an applied voltage of 2200 kV to the emitter. The mass spectrometer was operated in data-dependent acquisition mode to automatically switch between MS and MS/MS. Survey MS spectra were acquired for 1.5 s, and the three most intense ions (doubly or triply charged) were isolated and sequentially fragmented for 1.5 s by low-energy collision-induced dissociation. All MS and MS/MS spectra were acquired with the Q2-pulsing function switched on and optimized for enhanced transmission of ions in the MS (m/z 400 to 1000) and MS/MS (m/z 75 to 1300) mass ranges. Proteins were identified by correlating the ESI-MS/MS spectra with the NCBI.nr-protein sequence database Viridiplantae (green plants) as of 07/25/07 using the MOWSE algorithm as implemented in the MS search engine MASCOT (Matrix Science; CITATION). All results from two-dimensional electrophoresis and MS and all search results were stored in a LIMS database (Proteinscape 1.3; Bruker Daltonics). Five-day-old Arabidopsis cell suspension culture cells (100 mg) were ground in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder, and protein extraction was performed using 100 μL of solubilization buffer (0.5 mM EDTA, 500 mM aminohexanoic acid, 50 mM BisTris, 2 mM PMSF, and protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich]) supplied with either 10, 30, or 100 mM NaCl and 0.5 or 1% DDM (Fluka). Additionally, an extraction with no salt added and a ratio of proteins to DDM 0.67 and 1.33 was performed. The protein concentration was determined by the Lowry method (Bio-Rad Dc Protein Assay). Protein samples of ∼300 μg were loaded onto 6 to 10% gradient BN-PAGE (6 × 8 cm) gels at 4°C under constant current of 3.5 to 7 mA for 2 to 3 h (CITATION). A mixture of thyroglobulin (670 kD; Sigma-Aldrich) and ferritine (440 kD; Sigma-Aldrich) was used as the marker. Additionally, the plant green tissue extract was used as a marker with distinct chlorophyll binding complexes of ∼600 and 150 kD. The individual lanes were cut out, incubated for 30 min with 2% SDS and 2% β-mercaptoethanol, and placed on the top of the 12% SDS-PAGE and assayed by protein gel blot analysis. The yeast two-hybrid screening employed the MATCHMAKER GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech), and all procedures followed the manufacturer's protocols. The yeast strain AH109 (MATa, trp1-109, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2∷GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, MEL1, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3∷MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ) was stepwise transformed with all possible combinations of exocyst subunits (SEC3a, SEC5a, SEC6, SEC8, SEC10, SEC15b, EXO70A1, and EXO84b), fused either with the GAL4 DNA binding domain (pGBKT7vector) or with the GAL4 activation domain (pGADT7 vector). Yeast were grown on -LEU-TRP selective media and then transferred both to -ADE-HIS-LEU-TRP selective media and to filter paper for the β-galactosidase assay. Murine p53 (binding domain) and SV40 large T-antigen (activation domain), provided by the kit manufacturer, were used as a positive control, and a combination of empty pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors was used as a negative control. Only combinations positive in β-galactosidase assay and growing on -ADE-HIS-LEU-TRP selective media were accepted as true interactors. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under following accession numbers. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative codes for Arabidopsis loci are also provided in parentheses: At SEC3a, NM 103648.2 (At1g47550); At SEC3b, NM 103649.2 (At1g47560); At SEC5a, AF 479278.1 (At1g76850); At SEC5b, NM 101971.2 (At1g21170); At SEC6, AF 479279.1 (At1g71820); At SEC8, NM 111873.3 (At3g10380); At SEC10, AF 479280.1 (At5g12370); At SEC15a, NM 115523.1 (At3g56640); At SEC15b, NM 116468.3 (At4g02350); At EXO70A1, NM 120434.4 (At5g03540); At EXO84a, NM 100913.1 (At1g10385); At EXO84b, NM124361.4 (At5g49830); At EXO84c, NM 100892.2 (At1g10180); At QRT1, NM 124941.2 (At5g55590). See also Table 4 for a list of Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers, germplasm identification numbers, and references for mutant lines used in this study. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Comparison of Hypocotyl Lengths of Siblings That Differ with Respect to SEC8-6 and EXO70A1-2 Genotypes. Supplemental Figure 2. Complementation of sec6 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Altered Transcripts Predicted to Encode Truncated Proteins in the T-DNA Insertion Mutants in Exocyst Subunits. Supplemental Figure 4. Negative and Positive Controls Used for Indirect Immunofluorescence on Tobacco Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 5. Protein Gel Blot Analysis of Exocyst-Specific Antibodies. Supplemental Figure 6. SDS-PAGE of the SEGC Fraction Containing Partially Purified Exocyst. Supplemental Figure 7. Blue Native Electrophoresis of the Exocyst Complex from Arabidopsis Suspension Culture. Supplemental Figure 8. Expression Analysis of Exocyst Genes in Different Arabidopsis Tissues. Supplemental Table 1. Genotyping Results for sec6 Mutant Complementation Experiments. Supplemental Table 2. ESI-MS Identification of SEC3a, SEC6, SEC8, and SEC10 Exocyst Subunits. Supplemental Table 3. List of PCR Primers Used in This Work.
