!~ABS~! N6-Methyladenosine is a ubiquitous modification identified in the mRNA of numerous eukaryotes, where it is present within both coding and noncoding regions. However, this base modification does not alter the coding capacity, and its biological significance remains unclear. We show that Arabidopsis thaliana mRNA contains N6-methyladenosine at levels similar to those previously reported for animal cells. We further show that inactivation of the Arabidopsis ortholog of the yeast and human mRNA adenosine methylase (MTA) results in failure of the developing embryo to progress past the globular stage. We also demonstrate that the arrested seeds are deficient in mRNAs containing N6-methyladenosine. Expression of MTA is strongly associated with dividing tissues, particularly reproductive organs, shoot meristems, and emerging lateral roots. Finally, we show that MTA interacts in vitro and in vivo with At FIP37, a homolog of the Drosophila protein FEMALE LETHAL2D and of human WILMS' TUMOUR1-ASSOCIATING PROTEIN. The results reported here provide direct evidence for an essential function for N6-methyladenosine in a multicellular eukaryote, and the interaction with At FIP37 suggests possible RNA processing events that might be regulated or altered by this base modification.
!~RES~! In order to establish whether m6A is present within Arabidopsis mRNA, a two-dimensional thin layer chromatography (TLC) method was adapted from CITATION to detect and quantify m6A levels. In this method, mRNA is first digested with T1 ribonuclease, which cuts after every guanosine residue, leaving short polynucleotides that can be readily labeled with 32P at their 5′ ends. Thus, only those nucleotides that immediately follow a guanosine will be labeled. The labeled polynucleotides are further digested to give nucleotide 5′ monophosphates, which are separated by TLC as described in Methods. Using mixtures of in vitro transcribed RNA either containing or not containing m6A, the relative positions of the nucleotides following TLC separation were established and the efficient labeling of m6A was demonstrated (Figures 1A and 1B ). As expected, the spot corresponding to guanosine 5′-monophosphate (pG) is relatively weak; this is because the only Gs available for labeling following T1 digestion are mononucleotides, which are not efficient substrates for the kinase reaction. Thus, pG will be underrepresented relative to the other nucleotides. By combining in vitro transcribed methylated and nonmethylated RNA in known ratios, we demonstrated that this detection method, combined with phosphor imaging, gives quantitative values for pm6A relative to pA over the biological range observed (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] Total RNA was extracted from 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings, and the poly(A) fraction was purified by oligo(dT) chromatography. Both the total and the poly(A) RNA fractions were subjected to TLC analysis. As expected, due to the abundance of rRNA and tRNA species containing modified nucleotides, the total RNA sample gave spots in addition to pG, pA, pC, and pU following TLC separation (Figure 1C). The relative positions of these additional spots are consistent with the established positions of pseudouridine and the 2′ methylated forms of the four nucleotides (CITATION). A spot corresponding to pm6A was not readily detectable in the total RNA sample. In contrast, the poly(A) sample gave a clear spot in the expected position for pm6A, while the additional spots seen in the total RNA sample were absent or very much reduced (Figure 1D). Measuring the intensity of the pm6A spot relative to the pA spot gave an m6A-to-A ratio of 1.5%, which is consistent with reported values in animal systems. To investigate the functional importance of MTA during Arabidopsis development, we characterized a T-DNA insertion mutant in At4g10760. SALK_074069 contains a T-DNA within an annotated exon (exon 4) of MTA (Figure 2A ). Plants containing this insertion could only be isolated as hemizygotes and produced green and white seeds in immature siliques. The white seeds failed to develop further, indicating an embryo-lethal phenotype for the homozygous insertion (Figures 2B and 2C). This ratio does not differ significantly (P = 0.26) from the 3:1 ratio that would be predicted for a recessive embryo-lethal mutation. Of the normally developing seeds, approximately two-thirds produced plants containing the SALK_074069 insertion. A second T-DNA insertion line (SALK_114710) in exon 6 also gave the same embryo-lethal phenotype (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Further examination of the green and white seeds from siliques of different developmental stages in the SALK_074069 plants revealed that the embryos were not progressing from the globular stage to the heart stage (Figure 2D). However, a limited number of additional cell divisions occurred as the embryo aged (Figure 2F). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the disruption to MTA was the sole cause of the embryo-lethal phenotype, plants hemizygous for the SALK_074069 insertion were transformed with a full-length MTA cDNA under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. From these lines, progeny were selected that were homozygous for the SALK_074069 insertion, as confirmed by DNA gel blot analysis (Figure 3A ). The complemented homozygous lines gave only green seeds in their siliques, confirming that the insertion in MTA is the cause of the embryo-lethal phenotype (Figure 3B). Poly(A) RNA was purified from 2-week-old seedlings of the complemented line and subjected to TLC analysis as described above. The presence of m6A was readily detected (Figure 3C), and the levels were not significantly different from those in the wild type, even though the MTA cDNA transgene was expressed at a sixfold higher level than the wild type, as confirmed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) (Figure 3D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] Published Affymetrix data suggest that MTA is expressed at relatively low levels in most tissues, with the highest levels of expression being found in seeds, pollen microspores, and meristems (CITATION). We constructed a promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter using the 1.5-kb promoter region of MTA. This promoter is sufficient to drive the expression of MTA to complement the SALK_074069 knockout line (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Twenty-eight plants containing this reporter were examined, and all of them showed essentially identical expression patterns, which were consistent with published Affymetrix data sets. Strong GUS staining occurred in just a few limited locations: in the apical meristems, ovules, anthers, and developing seeds (Figure 4 ). Some expression was also seen at the lateral root primordia. The expression in anthers was initially seen only in tapetal cells, but as they matured, strong expression was also found in the pollen microspore. [[FIGURE]] We purified mRNAs from Arabidopsis roots, leaves, and flower buds and subjected them to TLC analysis. A high ratio of m6A to A was found in the floral mRNA sample (1.4%; Figure 5C ), whereas the leaf and root mRNAs contained less m6A (0.9 and 0.6%, respectively; Figures 5A and 5B). Values for m6A:A were consistent between biological replicates, differing by <0.1% from mean values. RNA gel blot analysis confirmed MTA expression in all tissues, with the highest levels in flower buds (Figure 5D). [[FIGURE]] CITATION demonstrated that a null mutation of the MTA ortholog, IME4, in S. cerevisiae results in a loss of m6A from sporulating yeast mRNA. To test the role of MTA in mRNA methylation in Arabidopsis, we assayed m6A levels in the white embryo-defective seeds. Microgram quantities of total RNAs were extracted from ∼1000 white seeds dissected from the SALK_074069 siliques, and the mRNA was enriched using oligo(dT) magnetic beads and subjected to TLC analysis, as described in Methods. As expected, mRNA prepared from the white seeds of the MTA null mutant does not contain quantifiable levels of m6A (Figure 6B ), whereas this modification is readily detectable in both green seeds and in the white seeds of the embryo-defective control mutant EMB15 (N6307), which also arrests at the globular stage (Figures 6A and 6C). RT-PCR from the purified mRNA samples confirmed the absence of MTA transcript in the SALK_074069 white seeds (Figure 6D). Similar results were also obtained for white seeds of the SALK_114710 allele of MTA (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). While the white seeds of an additional embryo-lethal control line, SALK_072168, contained wild-type levels of m6A (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), SALK_072168 was mutated for At5g60540 (EMB2407), a gene required for vitamin B6 synthesis (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Human MT-A70 was originally isolated as part of a 200-kD complex that, together with an 875-kD component, is required for mRNA methylation activity in vitro (CITATION). We sought to identify potential interacting partners of the Arabidopsis MTA by screening an Arabidopsis yeast two-hybrid library prepared from anther tissues, in which MTA is highly expressed (a gift from Z. Wilson). One strongly interacting clone was obtained (Figure 7A ), which was identified as encoding At FIP37 (At3g54170). This protein had been characterized previously as a plant homolog of the human WTAP (for WILMS' TUMOUR1-ASSOCIATING PROTEIN) and Drosophila FL(2)D (for FEMALE LETHAL2) and a target of the 12-kD Arabidopsis immunophilin, FKBP12 (CITATION). In addition, disruption of At FIP37 by T-DNA insertion also results in an embryo-lethal phenotype with developmental arrest at the globular stage (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We tested whether the interaction between MTA and FIP37 occurs in vivo by carrying out coimmunoprecipitation experiments. The MTA coding sequence was fused at its C-terminus to four copies of the c-Myc epitope tag. This construct was used to transform hemizygous SALK_074069 plants, and complementing lines were isolated. Coimmunoprecipitation was carried out using an anti-c-Myc antibody (Invitrogen), and protein gel blot analysis of the precipitated proteins was performed using a polyclonal antibody previously raised against FIP37 (CITATION). A band corresponding to FIP37 was only detectable in extracts from the MTA-c-Myc–tagged Arabidopsis plants and was not present in the wild type (Figure 7B). The band detected with the anti-FIP37 antibody appears to have a molecular mass of 48 kD compared with the protein markers, a mass that is ∼11 kD larger than the predicted molecular mass of FIP37. Interestingly, a similar observation was reported for the Drosophila FL(2)D protein, which runs with an apparent molecular mass 38% greater than its predicted size (CITATION). The coimmunoprecipitation was repeated using plants expressing a hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged version of MTA, and identical results were obtained (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). It has been reported that both the human MT-A70 and Arabidopsis FIP37 plus its Drosophila homolog FL(2)D are found in speckle-like nuclear bodies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We investigated the interaction and subcellular localization of MTA and FIP37 in Arabidopsis by generating C-terminal fusions to yellow and cyan fluorescent protein tags (MTA-YFP and FIP37-CFP, respectively). As expected, FIP37 was targeted to nuclear speckles when transiently expressed in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells (Figure 7C). The YFP-tagged MTA proteins clearly colocalize to the same discrete spots within the nucleus when coexpressed with FIP37-CFP (Figure 7C), further supporting their in vivo interaction.
!~MM~! Qualitative analysis of m6A in Arabidopsis thaliana mRNA was performed by two-dimensional TLC. Briefly, 100 μg of total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis tissue samples using the Plant RNeasy Mini kit (Qiagen), and the poly(A) fraction was purified using the PolyAttract mRNA isolation kit (Promega). The quality of the mRNA was checked by Agilent Bioanalyzer (Ambion), and samples analyzed containing 50 ng of mRNA were digested with 1 μL of Ribonuclease T1 (1000 units/μL; Fermentas) in a final volume of 20 μL (1× polynucleotide kinase buffer, 1 unit/μL RNase inhibitor). The 5′ end of the digested mRNA fragments were then labeled using 10 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas) in the presence of 1 μL of [γ-32P]ATP (6000 Ci/mmol; Perkin-Elmer). After ethanol precipitation, the labeled RNA was resuspended in 10 μL of 50 mM sodium acetate (pH 5.5) and digested to monophosphonucleotides by RNase P1 (Sigma-Aldrich). Two microliters of the samples was applied to cellulose TLC plates (20 × 20 cm; Merck) and developed in a solvent system composed of isobutyric acid:0.5 M NH4OH (5:3, v/v) in the first dimension and isopropanol:HCl:water (70:15:15, v/v/v) in the second dimension. The identification of labeled nucleotide spots was carried out using synthetic methylated and nonmethylated RNAs and by comparison with the published reference map of nucleotides for this solvent system (CITATION). Quantification was carried out using a storage phosphor screen (K-Screen; Kodak) and Bio-Rad Molecular Imager FX in combination with Quantity One software (Bio-Rad). For analyzing the m6A levels in aborted Arabidopsis seeds, 2 μg of total RNA was extracted from ∼1000 white embryo-defective seeds collected from siliques with a stereomicroscope, and mRNA was isolated using oligo(dT) Dynabeads (Invitrogen) or latex beads (Qiagen). The RNA was first hybridized to 5 μL of oligo(dT) beads, then washed five times with low-salt buffer A (150 mM LiCl, 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1% SDS) and three times with low-salt buffer B (100 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 1 mM EDTA). Half of the mRNA-bound beads were used for T1 digestion and subsequent two-dimensional TLC analysis as described above, and the remaining beads were used for RT-PCR. Following reverse transcription of total Arabidopsis seedling RNA, a 2079-bp cDNA fragment of MTA was amplified using forward primer 5′-CACCGAAGCCATGGAAACTGAATCTGATG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AGCTGTGATTGAGTCAATAGCCATTGGTTC-3′ (without stop codon) or 5′-TTGGAATTGAACTAAGCTGTGATTGAGTC-3′ (with stop codon) and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). Following the LR reaction, the MTA cDNA (minus stop codon) was transferred to the plant binary transformation vectors pGWB14 and pGWB17 to create MTA-HA and MTA-c-Myc (CITATION). The MTA cDNA (with stop codon) was also transferred to the binary vector pGWB8 to create 35S:MTA. After transfer to Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58, these vectors were used for floral dip transformation of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants heterozygous for the SALK_074069 insertion. The presence of the SALK_074069 insertion in potentially complementing lines was initially tested by PCR and confirmed by DNA gel blot analysis. For RNA gel blot analysis, 3 μg of total RNA was loaded per lane and transferred to a HyBond-N membrane (GE Healthcare). The ethidium bromide–stained membrane was imaged under UV light as a record of equal loading and transfer. The MTA cDNA was labeled (Rediprime; GE Healthcare) and used for hybridization. The membrane was then washed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Reverse transcription was carried out using SuperScriptII (Invitrogen) and oilgo(dT)25. Real-time PCR was carried out using the MX3005P qPCR machine and the Brilliant SYBR Green qPCR Master Mix (Stratagene). MAXpro software was used for data analysis. Samples were run in duplicate, and relative expression levels were determined compared with actin expression. All measurements were taken in the log phase of amplification (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). MTA primers were 5′-GGAACCTTTGGAGTTGTTATG-3′ and 5′-CAAAGCTCCAAACATTCACG-3′, and normalizer gene β-ACTIN2 primers were 5′-GTACAACCGGTATTGTGCT-3′ and 5′-ATCAGTAAGGTCACGTCCA-3′. Genomic DNA from Arabidopsis Columbia wild-type, hemizygous SALK_074069, and complemented lines was digested with NcoI (Fermentas). After gel electrophoresis, DNA was transferred to a HyBond-N membrane (GE Healthcare) and hybridized to an MTA exon 1 gene-specific probe as described above. NcoI cuts the MTA genomic sequence in exon 1 upstream of the probe fragment (Figure 2A) and also cuts within the SALK T-DNA and in exon 4. Thus, the genomic DNA fragment containing the SALK T-DNA migrates at a higher molecular weight than the endogenous MTA. The 1.5-kb MTA promoter sequence was PCR amplified with primers 5′-CACCATGCTCGACCCATAACCTACGAC-3′ and 5′-GGCTTCGAAACAAAAGAATTCGAGAC-3′. Following cloning into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen), it was recombined into the destination vector pGWB3, which contains a GUS reporter gene. This construct was transferred to Agrobacterium C58 for transformation of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia. The GUS assay was performed in a GUS staining solution containing 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7, 1 mM EDTA, pH 8, 0.1% Triton X-100, 2 mM potassium ferricyanide and ferrocyanide, and 2 mM X-glucuronic acid for 24 to 48 h at 37°C. After termination of staining, tissues were cleared with ethanol and imaged. For the construction of the bait vector, the MTA coding sequence was cloned into bait plasmid pDEST32 (Invitrogen). A ProQuest pEXP-AD502 (Invitrogen) prey library, prepared from developing Arabidopsis anthers, was kindly provided by Z. Wilson (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center). A total of 4 × 106 colonies were screened for their ability to grow on plates lacking His (with 15 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole). Putative positive colonies were further tested for uracil-independent growth, β-galactosidase expression, and lack of growth on 5-fluoroorotic acid containing medium to eliminate any false-positive interactions. Arabidopsis proteins were extracted by grinding 4 g of aerial tissues at 4°C in 6 mL of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, and a protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich]). Cell lysates were cleared of debris by centrifugation at 14,000g for 15 min at 4°C. The protein concentration in each lysate was determined using the Bradford protein assay kit (Bio-Rad). An equal volume containing 2 mg of total protein of each extract was precleared by adding 100 μL of protein G magnetic beads (New England Biolabs). After incubation at 4°C for 1 h, the protein G magnetic beads were collected, the supernatants were transferred to new tubes, and 6 μL of anti-c-Myc antibody (mouse monoclonal; Invitrogen) was added. After incubation at 4°C for 1 h, 100 μL of protein G magnetic beads (New England Biolabs) was added to bind and precipitate the antigen–antibody complex. The protein G magnetic beads were collected after 3 h of incubation at 4°C and washed four times with 10 volumes of extraction buffer. The antigen–antibody complex was eluted by adding 30 μL of SDS sample loading buffer without β-mercaptoethanol and incubated at 70°C for 5 min. Following this, DTT was added to a final concentration of 100 mM and the sample was incubated at 37°C for 1 h. The magnetic beads were removed, and the supernatant was separated on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel and then transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane by electroblotting. FIP37 was detected using an anti-FIP37 polyclonal rabbit antibody (CITATION) and the WesternBreeze kit (Invitrogen). Transient gene expression was carried out using the Biolistic PDS-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) as described previously (CITATION). The MTA and FIP37 cDNA (without stop codon) in pENTR vector were cloned into pDH51-GW-CFP (AM773751) and pDH51-GW-YFP (AM773752), respectively. Two micrograms of each plasmid was mixed, coated onto gold particles (sphere, 0.8 to 1.5 μm; AlfaAesar), and bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal peels placed on Murashige and Skoog medium. The onion peels were then incubated overnight at room temperature. Images were obtained using line-by-line sequential scan mode (Leica TCS SP2 AOBS laser confocal scanning microscope). CFP was excited using a 458-nm laser, and its emission was measured from 465 to 505 nm. The excitation wavelength for YFP was 514 nm, and its emission was measured from 525 to 600 nm. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: β-ACTIN2, At3g18780; FIP37, At3g54170; FKBP12, At5g64350; EMB2407, At5g60540; FL(2)D, AJ243599 (EMBL); KAR4, YCL055W; MTA, At4g10760; and WTAP, NM_152858. Germplasm information for the mutant and T-DNA insertion lines used in this study can be found in the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center under accession numbers N6307 (EMB15), N570469 (SALK_070469), N614710 (SALK_114710), and N572168 (SALK_072168). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. TLC Detection of m6A in Synthetic RNA. Supplemental Figure 2. Embryo Lethality and Absence of m6A in MTA SALK_114710. Supplemental Figure 3. Amplification Plots for qRT-PCR and RNA Gel Blot Analysis. Supplemental Figure 4. Complementation of SALK_074069 with the Endogenous Promoter-Driven Construct. Supplemental Figure 5. mRNA from Control White Seeds of the Embryo-Defective Mutant SALK_072168 Contains Wild-Type Levels of m6A. Supplemental Figure 6. Coimmunoprecipitation of MTA-HA and FIP37.
