!~ABS~! Plant morphogenesis depends on polarized exocytic and endocytic membrane trafficking. Members of the Arabidopsis thaliana dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) subfamily are required for polarized cell expansion and cytokinesis. Using a combination of live-cell imaging techniques, we show that a functional DRP1C green fluorescent fusion protein (DRP1C-GFP) was localized at the division plane in dividing cells and to the plasma membrane in expanding interphase cells. In both tip growing root hairs and diffuse-polar expanding epidermal cells, DRP1C-GFP organized into dynamic foci at the cell cortex, which colocalized with a clathrin light chain fluorescent fusion protein (CLC-FFP), suggesting that DRP1C may participate in clathrin-mediated membrane dynamics. DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci dynamics are dependent on cytoskeleton organization, cytoplasmic streaming, and functional clathrin-mediated endocytic traffic. Our studies provide insight into DRP1 and clathrin dynamics in the plant cell cortex and indicate that the clathrin endocytic machinery in plants has both similarities and striking differences to that in mammalian cells and yeast.
!~RES~! To determine the cellular distribution of DRP1C, a DRP1C-mGFP5 translational fusion (now referred to as DRP1C-GFP) was constructed and introduced into DRP1C/drp1C-1 plants (CITATION). To ensure normal expression and localization of GFP-tagged DRP1C, a genomic fragment of DRP1C including 2.9 kb of the native promoter, which is known to complement the drp1C pollen defect (CITATION), was positioned at the N terminus of GFP (Figure 1A ). DRP1C-GFP rescued the development of drp1C-1 pollen, and drp1C-1/drp1C-1 plants transformed with DRP1C-GFP had no visual defects. Immunoblot analysis of total protein extracts from plants expressing DRP1C-GFP confirmed that the fusion protein was intact and expressed at levels similar to native DRP1C (Figure 1B). Together, these data indicated that the DRP1C-GFP fusion protein was functional in vivo. [[FIGURE]] DRP1C-GFP was expressed throughout pollen germination. GFP fluorescence was first observed in hydrated pollen and localized to the plasma membrane (Figure 1D) but was not detected in pollen from untransformed plants (Figure 1C). During pollen grain germination, plasma membrane–localized DRP1C-GFP converged to the region near the aperture through which the pollen tube would emerge (Figure 1D). As the pollen tube continued to grow, DRP1C-GFP remained in the distal end of the pollen tube in the cytoplasm and along the plasma membrane (Figure 1E; see Supplemental Video 1 online). As previously observed in roots using immunofluorescence (CITATION), DPR1C-GFP localized to the division plane in the transition zone of roots (Figure 1F) and to the distal region of elongating root hairs (Figure 1G). In addition, live-cell imaging showed that DRP1C-GFP associated with the plasma membrane in these cell types. In aboveground tissue, DRP1C-GFP was expressed in hypocotyls (see Supplemental Figure 1A online), leaf pavement, and socket cells (Figure 1H) and in developing leaf trichomes (Figure 1H), where it localized to both the cell cortex and the cytoplasm. DRP1C-GFP was not observed to be associated with any cytoskeletal structures or mitochondria in dividing or nondividing cells as was previously reported (CITATION; CITATION). DRP1C-GFP did not colocalize with the mitochondrial tracer dye MitoTracker Orange CM-H2XRos in root epidermal cells (see Supplemental Figure 1B online) or cortical cells. To confirm the lack of mitochondrial localization, roots expressing a GFP-tagged mitochondria signal sequence fusion protein (ss-β-ATPase-GFP; CITATION) were fixed and probed with an antibody specific for DRP1C (CITATION). Again, α-DRP1C did not associate with the ss-β-ATPase-GFP mitochondrial marker (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). Previous studies have shown that Arabidopsis DRP1s are involved in polarized cell expansion (CITATION, CITATION). Root hairs are a model cell for the study of polar cell growth as they expand through membrane addition exclusively at the tip. Many signaling and membrane trafficking pathways that are required to establish and maintain this polar cell growth have been characterized (reviewed in CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we analyzed the in vivo dynamics of DRP1C-GFP in these tip-growing cells. DRP1C-GFP fluorescence was not evenly distributed throughout the root hair but was primarily localized at the distal end (toward the tip) during all stages of root hair development, beginning with the appearance of the first bulge and continuing through to termination of root hair growth (Figure 2A ). DRP1C-GFP fluorescence levels at the distal end of the root hair decreased as root hairs stopped growing and eventually reached levels similar to the rest of the root hair plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the dynamics of DRP1C-GFP during root hair growth with greater time resolution, seedlings were grown at a 30° horizontal angle through half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) + 0.5% agar medium (CITATION) on a glass cover slip (CITATION) to allow root hairs to elongate in one plane without disturbance. Root hairs that grew along the surface of the glass cover slip were imaged using CLSM. Root hairs appeared morphologically normal throughout the 3 h of imaging. Their growth rate oscillated over time, with rates varying between 0.4 and 1.7 μm/min, which was consistent with root hair growth dynamics observed previously (CITATION). DRP1C-GFP localized to the plasma membrane primarily at the tip apex, which is the site of membrane addition (CITATION), and the lateral plasma membrane within ∼15 μm of the apex (referred to as tip lateral flanks) as well as throughout the circulating cytoplasm (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Video 2 online). As the root hair elongated, the plasma membrane–associated DRP1C-GFP fluorescence intensity fluctuated both at the lateral flanks and at the tip apex throughout the 2 h of imaging (Figure 2C). The highest DRP1C-GFP fluorescence intensities at the tip apex were observed when the growth rate of the root hair was lowest (Figure 2C). At the fastest growth rates (∼1.7 μm/min), only 6% of total membrane-associated DRP1C-GFP fluorescence was located at the tip apex. By contrast, at the slowest rate, 60% of the total plasma membrane–associated DRP1C fluorescence was present at the root hair tip apex. This analysis suggested an inverse relationship between the localization of DRP1C at the tip apex, where exocytosis occurs, and the rate of root hair growth during expansion (Figure 2C). We performed a FRAP analysis to determine how DRP1C is recruited to the plasma membrane at the root hair tips. DRP1C could be recruited directly from the cytoplasm and/or delivered to the tip apex via an exocytic pathway and then diffuse into the root hair tip flanks during periods of rapid growth. To test these models, the diffusion of plasma membrane–associated DRP1C-GFP at the tip lateral flanks of expanding root hairs was analyzed. If DRP1C-GFP were recruited directly from the cytoplasm, the fluorescence in the entire photobleached area would recover at a uniform rate. Alternatively, if DRP1C-GFP localization depended on initial delivery to the root hair apex and subsequent diffusion, the initial fluorescence recovery would occur at the edge of the photobleached area. As a control, the fluorescence recovery rate of the cytoplasmic pool was determined, which recovered to its original intensity (corrected for photobleaching) in 17.1 ± 5.1 s (n = 9; Figures 3A, 3C, and 3D , black circles). The plasma membrane–associated fluorescence recovered in 47.6 ± 15.8 s (n = 18; Figures 3B to 3D), indicating that DRP1C-GFP did not freely diffuse at the plasma membrane. The photobleached area of the root hair tip flank was divided into two regions, one comprising the peripheral two-thirds of the photobleached area (Figures 3C and 3D, white boxes) and the other comprising the inner one-third of the bleached area (Figures 3C and 3D, black boxes). In 83% of the root hairs (n = 18), the peripheral and inner regions recovered with equal kinetics, suggesting that DRP1C-GFP was primarily recruited from the cytoplasm (Figures 3B to 3D; see DPR1C-GFP forms discreet foci at the plasma membrane below). [[FIGURE]] Root hair growth has been shown to require calcium gradients and reactive oxygen species as signaling modules, phosphatidylinositol metabolism, actin dynamics, and a functional secretory pathway (CITATION; CITATION). To determine if these processes are also required for DRP1C-GFP polarity, DRP1C-GFP dynamics in root hairs were analyzed before, during, and after the addition of inhibitors of the above processes, including, 0.1% DMSO (control treatment; Figure 4A ), 20 μM brefeldin A (secretory trafficking inhibitor; Figure 4B; CITATION), 30 μM cytochalasin D (F-actin inhibitor; Figure 4C; CITATION), or 30 μM tyrphostin A23 (CME inhibitor; Figure 4D; CITATION). Unlike the control treatment, which did not affect growth (Figure 4A), each inhibitor caused a cessation of root hair growth 10 to 30 min after inhibitor addition (Figures 4B to 4D). With the exception of tyrphostin A23 (tyrA23), polarized localization of DRP1C-GFP at the apical and lateral plasma membrane was abolished within 15 min of growth cessation, resulting in a nonpolar distribution of DRP1C-GFP throughout the root hair (Figures 4B and 4C). These results suggested that the known requirements for active root hair tip growth are most likely not directly required for DRP1C-GFP recruitment or dynamics at the plasma membrane but that DRP1C-GFP localization at the tip of root hairs is intimately tied with active growth. This is supported by the result that DRP1C-GFP was not mislocalized in several root hair mutants, including the tip growth expansion mutants rhd2, rhd4, cow1, tip1, cob-1, cob-2, and erh1 (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] tyrA23 inhibits mammalian AP-2 binding of endocytic cargo and has been shown to block CME in mammalian cells (CITATION) and endocytic traffic in plants (CITATION). Although CME has not yet been shown to be required for tip growth in Arabidopsis, clathrin-coated structures have been observed at the flanks of root hair tips (CITATION). We sought to determine if disrupting CME would alter the dynamics of DRP1C-GFP in root hairs. Within ∼15 min of tyrA23 application, root hair growth slowed and stopped. (Figure 4D). In contrast with the other inhibitor treatments, DRP1C-GFP fluorescence at the apical or lateral plasma membrane decreased but never completely disappeared upon growth cessation. Instead, DRP1C-GFP remained localized at the tip up to 30 min after growth of the root hair had ceased. A further analysis of the effects of tyrA23 on DRP1C-GFP dynamics is presented below. To examine DRP1C-GFP dynamics at the plasma membrane of transformed plants, VAEM was used, which allows for imaging of the plant cell cortex with a high signal-to-noise ratio (CITATION). The distribution of DRP1C-GFP was visualized using VAEM in root hair tips and flanks (Figures 5A and 5B ), expanding epidermal cells of the differentiation and elongation zone of the root (Figures 5E and 5F; see Supplemental Video 3 online), mature atrichoblasts in the root, leaf pavement cells, hypocotyl epidermal cells, and guard cells (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In all cell types, DRP1C-GFP was prominently organized into discreet cortical-associated foci (Figures 5A to 5C; see Supplemental Video 3 online). To eliminate any differences that may occur in different cell types, DRP1C-GFP foci were initially analyzed in expanding root epidermal cells. In addition, only foci that had lifetimes (defined as the length of time that a focus was visible in the imaging plane) of >2 s were included in the analysis. Each of the DRP1C-GFP foci that appeared also disappeared during the 5 min of imaging. The average lifetime of the DRP1C-GFP foci was 17.7 ± 8.8 s (n = 175; Figure 5C). When first appearing, the foci had low but detectable fluorescence (Figures 5B to 5D) that increased steadily. Upon reaching peak fluorescence intensity, the fluorescence rapidly decreased to background levels and the foci disappeared from the cell cortex (Figures 5B to 5D). This behavior was characteristic of DRP1C-GFP foci as suggested by the average, normalized fluorescence intensity of 25 foci, which were centered at peak intensity (Figure 5D). In addition, the foci were largely immobile (Figure 5B), with 55% of the foci exhibiting no lateral movement in the imaging plane. The remaining foci were immobile for >90% of their lifetime at the cell cortex but were mobile within the image plane and exhibited additional behaviors, including foci splitting (Figure 5E), foci fusion (Figure 5G), and dimming without disappearing (Figure 5F). In addition, short-lived (<5 s) foci that did not fluctuate in fluorescence intensity and long-lived (>45 s) foci that underwent several rounds of fluorescence intensity fluctuations were also present (Figures 5E and 5F). Besides having limited mobility in the image plane, the foci exhibited movement just out of the plane of focus as they disappeared from the cell cortex. Seventy percent (n = 220) of foci were observed moving out of focus, presumably deeper into the cytoplasm, within 1 s of completely disappearing, most likely due to cytoplasmic streaming. [[FIGURE]] Endocytic membrane trafficking is more active in expanding than in nonexpanding cells (CITATION). To determine if the distribution or dynamics of DRP1C-GFP foci were also different, we compared the density and behavior of foci in the expansion zone of root epidermal cells with those in fully expanded root epidermal cells. Although the focus lifetimes were quite variable within a single cell, ranging from 2 to 60 s in both expanding and nonexpanding epidermal root cells, the average lifetime of the DRP1C-GFP foci did not vary widely between cell types. The average lifetime was 17.7 ± 8.8 s in expanding root epidermal cells and 24.2 ± 12.4 s in nonexpanding root epidermal cells. By contrast, the density of DRP1C-GFP foci varied between cell types, with the highest density being measured in actively expanding cells (Figure 5H). In addition, more foci exhibited splitting and fusion in expanding cells (45%, n = 182) than in nonexpanding cells (28%, n = 182). To test the hypothesis that DRP1C plays a role in endocytosis, drp1C-1/drp1C-1 seedlings transformed with DRP1C-GFP were treated with 50 μM tyrA23, which was previously shown to inhibit endocytic traffic in cultured plant cells (CITATION). After 3 min of treatment with tyrA23, ∼15% of the cortical-associated foci imaged with VAEM began to increase in size and fluorescence intensity (Figure 5I) and the cytoplasmic pools of DRP1C-GFP began to amass into immobile structures with high GFP fluorescence as viewed by time-lapse CLSM (Figure 5J; see Supplemental Video 4 online). Thirty min after the addition of tyrA23, the cortical and cytoplasmic-associated DRP1C-GFP fluorescent signal was observed in immobile cortical-associated foci and cytoplasmic structures, respectively (Figures 5I to 5J). After 30 min of tyrA23 treatment, <1% (n = 600) of the cortical foci entered or disappeared from the cell cortex during 2 min of imaging. By contrast, the phosphotyrosine analog tyrphostin A51, which does not inhibit mammalian clathrin/AP2–cargo interaction (CITATION; CITATION), had no effect on localization or behavior of DRP1C-GFP (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). The effect of tyrA23 was rapidly reversible, with a complete disappearance of immobile cytoplasmic DRP1C-GFP structures within 5 min of washout (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). tyrA23 most likely does not inhibit the GTPase activity of DRP1C, as tyrA23 had no inhibitory effect on the GTPase activity of Escherichia coli expressed DRP1A (Supplemental Figure 4C online), which is 88% identical to DRP1C in its GTPase domain. Cortical-associated DRP1C-GFP displayed characteristics that were reminiscent of the dynamics of dynamin 1 during CME (CITATION). Based on this and our finding that tyrA23 inhibits DRP1C-GFP dynamics, CLC fluorescent fusion proteins were created and expressed in planta for real-time imaging of clathrin dynamics at the plasma membrane. Fluorescent fusions of CLC have been successfully used for illuminating clathrin dynamics in yeast (CITATION) and mammalian cells (CITATION). C-terminal fusions to mGFP5 (CITATION), mOrange, or enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP) were used. All three CLC fusion proteins exhibited similar localizations (Figures 6A to 6F ): to intracellular organelles that colocalized with the TGN marker, N-sialyl transferase-YFP (Figures 6D to 6F; CITATION), within the cytoplasm, and at the plasma membrane of root epidermal cells (Figures 6A to 6C) and root hairs (Figure 6G). Plasma membrane–associated CLC-GFP exhibited a similar distribution as DRP1C-GFP in growing root hairs. In time-lapse images (see Supplemental Video 5 online), CLC-GFP was localized to the tip flanks in growing root hairs and redistributed to the tip-most region of the plasma membrane as growth ceased. [[FIGURE]] CLC-GFP localization at the plasma membrane was examined using VAEM. Similar to DRP1C-GFP, plasma membrane–associated CLC-FFPs were organized into dynamic, discreet foci (Figures 6H to 6J; see Supplemental Video 6 online). CLC-GFP foci had a similar lifetime distribution (Figure 6J) as DRP1C-GFP in expanding root epidermal cells, with the average lifetime of 19.7 ± 6.8 s. The density of CLC-GFP foci was also similar in expanding root epidermal cells (3.48 ± 0.55 foci/μm2) to that of DRP1C-GFP (3.54 ± 0.62 foci/μm2). Actin dynamics and membrane sterols are required for efficient CME in mammals and yeast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine cellular components that are required for DRP1C-GFP and CLC-FFP dynamics, seedlings were treated with molecular inhibitors of cytoskeletal dynamics, sterol synthesis, and membrane and protein trafficking and then imaged with VAEM. Specifically, 1 and 50 μM latrunculin B (latB; F-actin inhibitor), 10 μM oryzalin (microtubule inhibitor; CITATION), 50 mM 2,3-butanedione monoxime (BDM; myosin inhibitor; CITATION), 10 μg/mL fenpropimorph (sterol synthesis inhibitor; CITATION), 50 μM wortmannin (CITATION), and 50 μM brefeldin A (CITATION) were assessed and their effects were compared with mock treatment with 0.1% DMSO (except for fenpropimorph, which was compared with half-strength MS). Inhibitors were used at concentrations previously shown to effectively inhibit their corresponding cellular processes, and where possible, inhibition was visually confirmed as described below. All inhibitors, except wortmannin and brefeldin A, had significant effects on foci dynamics (Figures 7A to 7C ). [[FIGURE]] Seedling roots were treated with low (1 μM) and high (50 μM) concentrations of latB for 20 min to inhibit cytoplasmic streaming independent and dependent processes, respectively. F-actin depolymerization was verified using the actin probe GFP-ABD2 (CITATION). At 1μM latB, there was no effect on DRP1C-GFP foci dynamics (data not shown) and a small, but significant increase in CLC-GFP average focus lifetime (from 19.7 ± 6.8 s in control cells to 31.1 ± 23.8 s; Figure 7A, striped). However, at latB concentrations that inhibited cytoplasmic streaming as viewed in bright-field images (i.e., 50 μM), >95% of the cortical-associated immobile DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci that were present at the beginning of imaging were present after 5 min. Besides this immobile population, ∼30% of CLC-GFP foci were in constant motion in and out of the plane of focus, which was not observed in mock-treated CLC-GFP seedlings. To determine if the effects of actin inhibition on foci dynamics were due to cytoplasmic streaming, seedlings were incubated with BDM, a myosin inhibitor, for 20 min. Both DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci became immobile. Foci that were present at the beginning of imaging rarely (<1%) disappeared from the cell cortex. CLC-GFP also formed constantly mobile foci, similar to those observed after treatment with 50 μM latB. In addition, DRP1C-GFP foci increased in size and fluorescence intensity, similar to those observed after tyrA23 treatment (Figure 7C). Microtubules are the major cytoskeletal component of the cortex of plant cells (CITATION). Thus, microtubule organization may be important for regulating processes at the plasma membrane. To examine the role of the microtubule cytoskeleton on cortical-associated DRP1C and CLC dynamics, expanding epidermal root cells expressing DRP1C-GFP or CLC-GFP were imaged after 20 min incubation with 10 μM oryzalin, which caused complete depolymerization of microtubules, as assessed by a microtubule binding domain–GFP reporter (CITATION). Both DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci had a wider lifetime distribution than with 0.1% DMSO treatment (Figures 7A and 7B, white bars), and the average focus lifetime of DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP with oryzalin treatment was 2.6 and 1.6 times, respectively, that of mock-treated roots. In addition, DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP had a greater mobility within the plane of the cell cortex after treatment with oryzalin. Twice as many cortical-associated DRP1C-GFP foci were observed to split and/or merge, and more than twice as many CLC-GFP foci moved laterally in the cell cortex compared with mock-treated roots. Interestingly, foci dynamics were greatly inhibited in the absence of both the actin and microtubule cytoskeletons (Figures 7A and 7B, gray bars). In seedlings incubated with 10 μM oryzalin and 1 μM latB for 20 min, DRP1C and CLC foci displayed an average focus lifetime of 135.2 ± 71.3 s and 46.2 ± 35.5 s (n = 106), respectively (as opposed to 17.7 ± 8.8 s and 19.7 ± 6.8 s in mock-treated cells, respectively). In addition, the mobile DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci that were present in mock-treated seedlings or with either drug alone were not apparent in seedlings treated with both oryzalin and latB, with <2% of DRP1C and CLC foci being mobile within the cell cortex. Plant cell expansion and division are greatly affected by sterols present in the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION). CME in mammalian cells also requires the presence of sterols in the plasma membrane (CITATION). Fenpropimorph has been used as a sterol synthesis inhibitor to probe the effects of altered membrane sterol profiles on plant morphology (CITATION; CITATION). Seedlings germinated and grown on half-strength MS + 10 μg/mL fenpropimorph had altered DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci dynamics (Figures 7D and 7E). The average DRP1C-GFP foci lifetime from seedlings grown on fenpropimorph was 39.3 ± 20.9 s (n = 200), which was 1.9 times that of seedlings grown on 0.5× MS media (Figure 7D). Likewise, the average lifetime of CLC-GFP foci when seedlings were grown on fenpropimorph was 34.0 ± 23.2 s (n = 90), which was 1.7 times that of seedlings grown on half-strength MS (Figure 7E). Together, these inhibitor studies indicated that the cortical environment was critical for efficient DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci dynamics. As cortical-associated DRP1C-GFP and CLC-GFP foci displayed very similar dynamics, we decided to test whether these foci colocalize in the cell cortex. Plants expressing both DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange were imaged using dual fluorescence color VAEM imaging (Figure 8A ; see Supplemental Video 7 online). As demonstrated by single fluorophore imaging, both DRP1C and CLC fusion proteins formed discreet foci in the cell cortex (Figure 8A, yellow arrowheads). CLC-mOrange was also found in larger structures that represent TGNs (Figure 8A, blue arrowhead, and Figures 6D to 6F). We found that 48.8% (n = 3 cells) of pixels that had green fluorescence above an intensity threshold that included all fluorescence within the cell boundaries also contained mOrange fluorescence above the intensity threshold. Conversely, only 15.3% (n = 3 cells) of pixels that contained orange fluorescence above threshold intensity also contained green fluorescence above the threshold intensity. This was most likely due to the TGN-associated CLC-mOrange fluorescence signal. On the other hand, when only foci were analyzed for the presence of green or orange fluorescence, 95.1% of all CLC-mOrange foci analyzed (n = 1044) overlapped with DRP1C-GFP foci, while 94.6% of all DRP1C-GFP foci analyzed (n = 1049) overlapped with CLC-mOrange foci. The total percentage of overlapping foci was 90.4% (n = 1100). To eliminate the possibility that the high percentage of colocalization was due to random overlap of the highly dense foci in the cell cortex of elongating epidermal cells, the red channel image from eight different cells was rotated 180° with respect to the green channel, an analysis technique that has been used previously to show nonrandom colocalization (CITATION; CITATION). The average peak distance for the original image (3.29 pixels; n = 256) was significantly different from that of the rotated images (6.43 pixels; n = 253; P < 0.000001), indicating that the colocalization was statistically significant. [[FIGURE]] The dynamics of DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange were analyzed for 88 foci from expanding epidermal root cells in 10 individual roots that displayed overlapping DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange localization. In 85% of these foci, the DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange fluorescence decreased within 1 s of each other (Figures 8B and 8C), suggesting that DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange resided on the same structure in the cell cortex. Of those that displayed simultaneous disappearance, 65% of foci (n = 68) had simultaneous rise in fluorescence (Figure 8B), indicating that the fluorophores were recruited concurrently, while 28% of foci were characterized by a peak in CLC-mOrange fluorescence before DRP1C-GFP (Figure 8C), suggesting a stepwise recruitment. Furthermore, 9% of all foci had concurrent recruitment of the DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange but did not have simultaneous disappearance (Figure 8D). The time difference between the disappearances of the two foci ranged from 2.5 to 7 s. Finally, 6% of foci did not display coordinated dynamics of DRP1C-GFP and CLC-mOrange (Figure 8E).
!~MM~! The DPR1C-GFP plant expression vector was constructed as follows: A SalI/HpaI DRP1C genomic construct from pBK03K (CITATION), which included 1.8 kb of 5′ untranslated (UTR) and promoter elements, and 3′UTR of DRP1C were subcloned into pPZP211 (CITATION) containing mGFP5 and the nopaline synthase (NOS) terminator (CITATION) using SmaI and SalI sites (pSB29). The native 3′UTR was removed from pSB29 by restriction digestion using KpnI and SacI sites and a DRP1C coding DNA fragment amplified with primers 5′-AGAGAGTCGATATGATT GCTGCACGTAGA-3′ and 5′-CTAGAGCTCCTTCCAAGCCACTGCATCGATGTC-3′ was inserted after digestion with KpnI and SacI (pSB31). The CLC-mOrange plant expression vector was constructed as follows: The coding sequence for mOrange (CITATION) was PCR amplified from pRSET-B mOrange (a gift from R. Tsien) using primers 5′-TTGAGCTCATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGAATAACATGG-3′ and 5′-TTGAGCTCTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGCCGGTG-3′, subcloned as a SalI fragment into a pPZP221-B vector (CITATION), resulting in pPZP221B-mO-NOS. A genomic fragment of At2g40060 (CLC) was PCR amplified from BAC T28M21 (ABRC) with primers 5′-CTGCAGGAGTCGGAGATGATGATTATGATG-3′ (CLC for) and 5′-GAGCTCAGCAGCAGTAACTGCCTCAGTGGGC-3′ (CLC rev) and subcloned with PstI and SacI into pPZP221B-mO-NOS. CLC-ECFP was constructed as follows: The coding sequence for ECFP was PCR amplified from pECFP-C1 (Clontech) using primers 5′-GAGCTCATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′ and 5′-GAGCTCTTAGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGAGAGTGA-3′, subcloned as a SacI fragment into a modified pPZP221-B vector (CITATION) resulting in pPZP221B-ECFP-NOS. A genomic fragment of At2g40060 (CLC) was PCR amplified from BAC T28M21 (ABRC) with primers CLC for and CLC rev and subcloned as a PstI-SacI fragment into pZP221B-ECFP-NOS, resulting in pPZP211B-CLC-ECFP. The DNA sequence of all constructs was verified. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Wassilewskija wild-type or DRP1C/drp1C-1 (CITATION) plants were transformed with the constructs for CLC-FFP or DRP1C-GFP, respectively, using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected either on solid medium (0.6% phytagar), half-strength MS medium (Caisson Labs) containing 40 μg/mL kanamycin (DRP1C-GFP) or on soil, sprayed once with 20 μg/mL ammonium glusofinate (CLC-ECFP; Liberty). To determine expression level of the transgenic DRP1C-GFP construct, total protein extracts were prepared from wild-type, wild-type transformed with DRP1C-GFP, DRP1C/drp1C-1, and drp1C-1/drp1C-1 transformed with DRP1C-GFP seedlings grown vertically on half-strength MS + 1% phytagar. Seven-day-old seedlings were homogenized in SDS-PAGE sample buffer (CITATION), incubated at 65°C for 15 min, and insoluble debris was cleared by centrifugation at 16,000g for 10 min at room temperature. The supernatant was separated on a 12.5% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gel and analyzed by immunoblotting as described (CITATION) using anti-DRP1C (CITATION) and biotin-conjugated anti-GFP antibodies (Rockland Immunochemicals). HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (GE Healthcare) and HRP-conjugated streptavidin (Rockland Immunochemicals) were used to detect the primary antibodies, and anti-DRP1C and anti-GFP, respectively. For indirect immunolocalization of DPR1C in plants expressing ss-β-ATPase-GFP (CITATION), 5-d-old seedlings that were grown vertically on half-strength MS + 0.6% phytagar were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde (Ted Pella) in PME (55 mM PIPES-KOH, 2.5 mM MgSO4, and 1 mM EGTA, pH 6.9) for 1 h under vacuum. All subsequent incubations were conducted at room temperature in a humid chamber unless otherwise noted. Fixed seedlings were washed in PME, placed on Probe-On-Plus slides (Fisher Scientific), dried on a slide warmer at 55°C, incubated in permeabilization buffer (0.1% Nonidet P-40 in PME) for 10 min, and treated with 0.1% (w/v) pectolyase and 0.5% (w/v) macroenzyme in PME for 20 min. The roots were then washed in 0.1% Triton X-100 in PME and then in PME. For immunolabeling, the roots were blocked with 3% BSA (w/v) in PME for 1 h and probed with anti-DRP1C (CITATION) in PME + 3% BSA overnight at 4°C. Roots were then washed in PME + 3% BSA and incubated with Cy3-conjugated anti-rabbit antibodies (Jackson ImmunoResearch) in PME + 3% BSA for 1 h. Afterward, roots were washed with PME + 3% BSA, covered with Vectashield (Vector Laboratories), topped with a cover slip, and sealed with fingernail polish. To examine the association of DRP1C with mitochondria, 5-d-old drp1C-1/drp1C-1 seedlings transformed with DRP1C-GFP were incubated with 5 μM MitoTracker Orange CM-H2TMRos (Molecular Probes) in half-strength MS for 30 min at room temperature and rinsed for 2 min in half-strength MS before imaging. All CLSM images, except for those of the FRAP experiments, were captured using a Nikon TE2000-U inverted confocal laser scanning microscope fitted with a ×60/1.4 numerical aperture (NA) PlanApo VC objective lens and EZ-C1 acquisition software (Nikon). For colocalization studies in epidermal and cortical cells, DRP1C-GFP and β-ATPase-ss-GFP were excited at 488 nm (Melles Griot) while MitoTracker Orange and Cy3 (anti-DRP1C) were excited at 543 nm (Melles Griot). CLC-FPs were detected using 488-nm light (GFP), 543-nm light (mOrange), or 408-nm light (ECFP; Melles Griot). All dual-color imaging was performed using sequential scans to prevent bleed through fluorescence. For imaging of trichomes expressing DRP1C-GFP, seedlings with one to two pairs of true leaves were selected and the roots were removed. Seedlings were inverted onto a cover slip within water and covered by a glass slide. Pollen was allowed to germinate in vitro as described previously (CITATION) on a glass slide for 0 to 12 h, covered with a cover slip, and imaged with CLSM as described above, except a ×100/1.4 NA PlanApo lens was used. For time-lapse imaging of growing root hairs, seedlings were grown on half-strength MS + 0.5% phytagar coated cover slips as described (CITATION) and imaged by CLSM with either the ×60 or ×100 objective lens. One hundred and fifty microliters of half-strength MS + 1% (w/v) sucrose was pipetted on top of the agar and covered with parafilm to prevent desiccation during imaging. FRAP experiments were performed on a Zeiss 510 Meta confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss) equipped with a ×63x/1.4 NA PlanApo Chromat objective. Circular or rectangular areas were photobleached using 30 iterations of the 488-nm line from a 200-mW argon laser operating at 100% laser power. Fluorescence recovery was monitored at 1-s intervals. Cortical-associated DRP1C-GFP and CLC-FFP dynamics were imaged using variable angle fluorescence microscopy as described (CITATION). Briefly, seedlings were transferred from vertically growing plates to a glass slide with 150 μL of half-strength MS and covered with a cover slip. Plants were imaged with a Nikon Eclipse TE2000-U fitted with the Nikon T-FL-TIRF attachment and a Nikon ×100/NA 1.45 CFI Plan Apo TIRF objective. For double fluorophore imaging, GFP and mOrange were excited with a 488- and 543-nm laser, respectively, and the fluorescence emission spectra were separated with a 540LP dichroic mirror and filtered through either a 515/30 (GFP) or 585/65 (mOrange) filter in a Dual View filter system (Photometrics). For trichomes and root hairs, z-series were recombined using the average projection command on Image J 1.36b (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Root hair length was calculated from XYZ coordinates of the tip and base of the root hair. For growing root hairs, time series images were captured every 8 to 10 s and compiled using Image J. Growth rate was determined using MetaMorph's (Molecular Devices) track points application. An intensity threshold value was assigned to each root hair so that the maximum number of pixels in the plasma membrane was included, and the number of pixels in the cytoplasm was limited. Threshold area was calculated using the region measurements application in Metamorph (Molecular Devices). Analysis of FRAP, DRP1C-GFP, CLC-GFP, and CLC-mOrange foci dynamics was performed using Image J. Fluorescence recovery in the FRAP experiments was corrected for photobleaching as follows. The percentage of inherent photobleaching (PIP) for each frame during recovery was determined by measuring the change in fluorescence intensity of a region that was not initially photobleached. This fluorescence intensity in the initial bleached regions was multiplied by (1 + PIP) for each frame. A focus was identified by a local increase in intensity above a designated threshold assigned to each time-lapse image for >2 s. Foci dynamics were analyzed for plants that were grown on half-strength MS solid medium and imaged in half-strength MS liquid medium. Lifetime was calculated from the first frame the focus appeared to the frame that it disappeared from the imaging planes. The intensity profiles in Figures 5, 6, and 8 were generated using Image J's Region of Interest (ROI) Multi Measure Plugin. Circular ROIs included all pixels of the focus, and a mean intensity for the ROI was recorded. To determine if colocalization was random, the green channel of dual-color images was rotated 180° relative to the red image using Adobe Photoshop CS2 (Adobe Systems). The distance from each focus in the green channel to the nearest focus in the red channel was measured using MetaMorph. All images for figures were processed in Adobe Photoshop CS2. tyrA23, tyrphostin A51, cytochalasin D, wortmannin, brefeldin A, and latB were purchased from EMD Biosciences; oryzalin was purchased from Restek; lanthanum chloride and BDM were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Stock solutions of lanthanum chloride and BDM were prepared in deionized water. All other inhibitors were dissolved initially in 100% DMSO for a stock solution. Inhibitors were diluted in half-strength MS (for VAEM imaging of expanding root epidermal cells and confocal imaging of the root tip) or half-strength MS + 1% sucrose (for confocal imaging of root hairs). The final DMSO concentration was 0.1% (v/v) or less in all working solutions. For VAEM analysis, inhibitor treatment was for 20 min unless otherwise stated. Foci lifetime analysis for inhibitors was compared with a mock treatment in 0.1% DMSO, except for fenpropimorph. For treatment of growing root hairs, inhibitors were pipetted on top of agar and allowed to diffuse into the agar to reach the root hairs. Time series imaging was initiated prior to the addition of the inhibitor to confirm the growth status of the root hair. For treatment of root tips with inhibitors, 5- to 7-d-old vertically grown seedlings were transferred from 1% agar plates to 3 mL of final working concentration in half-strength MS in a 12-well culture plate. After the indicated time, seedlings were transferred to a glass slide with 150 μL of inhibitor solution, covered with a glass cover slip, the excess liquid was wicked away, and they were imaged as described above. For tyrA23 washout experiments, seedlings were incubated with 50 μM tyrA23 in half-strength MS for 20 min, transferred to media without the drug for 5 min, and subsequently imaged in half-strength MS. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under accession numbers At2g40060 (CLC) and At1g14830 (DRP1C). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. DRP1C Localizes to the Plasma Membrane in Hypocotyls and Does Not Associate with Mitochondria. Supplemental Figure 2. DRP1C-GFP Retains Its Tip Localization in Several Root Hair Expansion Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. DRP1C-GFP Forms Cortical Foci in Various Epidermal Cells. Supplemental Figure 4. tyrA23, but Not tyrA51, Reversibly Inhibits DRP1C Dynamics in Vivo but Not DRP1 GTPase Activity in Vitro. Supplemental Video 1. Time-Lapse Images of a Growing Pollen Tube Expressing DRP1C-GFP. Supplemental Video 2. Time-Lapse Images of Growing Root Hair Expressing DRP1C-GFP. Supplemental Video 3. Time-Lapse Images of Expanding Root Epidermal Cell Expressing DRP1C-GFP Imaged with VAEM. Supplemental Video 4. Time-Lapse Images of Seedling Root Tip Expressing DRP1C-GFP Treated with 50 μM tyrA23. Supplemental Video 5. Growing Root Hair from Root Expressing CLC-GFP. Supplemental Video 6. Time-Lapse Images of Expanding Root Epidermal Cell Expressing CLC-GFP Imaged with VAEM. Supplemental Video 7. Time-lapse VAEM Images of Expanding Root Epidermal Cell Expressing DRP1C-GFP (Middle Panel) and CLC-mOrange (Left Panel), and Merged (Right Panel).
