!~ABS~! GRAS proteins belong to a plant-specific transcription factor family. Currently, 33 GRAS members including a putative expressed pseudogene have been identified in the Arabidopsis genome. With a reverse genetic approach, we have constructed a “phenome-ready unimutant collection” of the GRAS genes in Arabidopsis thaliana. Of this collection, we focused on loss-of-function mutations in 23 novel GRAS members. Under standard conditions, homozygous mutants have no obvious morphological phenotypes compared with those of wild-type plants. Expression analysis of GRAS genes using quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), microarray data mining, and promoter::GUS reporter fusions revealed their tissue-specific expression patterns. Our analysis of protein–protein interaction and subcellular localization of individual GRAS members indicated their roles as transcription regulators. In our yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assay, we confirmed the protein–protein interaction between SHORT-ROOT (SHR) and SCARECROW (SCR). Furthermore, we identified a new SHR-interacting protein, SCARECROW-LIKE23 (SCL23), which is the most closely related to SCR. Our large-scale analysis provides a comprehensive evaluation on the Arabidopsis GRAS members, and also our phenome-ready unimutant collection will be a useful resource to better understand individual GRAS proteins that play diverse roles in plant growth and development.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains 33 GRAS genes scattered among the five chromosomes (annotation version 7.0; TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org) (Fig. 1a). Of 33 GRAS genes, only a third was genetically analyzed: GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, RGL3, SCR, SHR, PAT1, SCL13, and SCL18/LAS (Di Laurenzio et al. CITATION; Peng et al. CITATION; Silverstone et al. CITATION; Bolle et al. CITATION; Helariutta et al. CITATION; Dill and Sun CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION; Wen and Chang CITATION; Greb et al. CITATION; Tyler et al. CITATION; Torres-Galea et al. CITATION). Typically, GRAS proteins share signature motifs of VHIID flanked by two leucine heptad repeats (LHRI and LHRII), PFYRE and SAW (designated after the profound amino acid residues in the conserved regions) with rather variable N-terminal regions (Pysh et al. CITATION; Bolle CITATION). All GRAS genes are transcriptionally active, evidenced by the presence of either full-length cDNAs or expressed sequence tags (ESTs). With the full-length deduced amino acid sequences of 32 members excluding a putative expressed pseudogene (SCL16), we carried out a phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 1b and Supplementary Fig. 1). In our neighbor-joining tree, GRAS proteins can be grouped into 8 branches (I–VIII) (Fig. 1b). The branch I (PAT1 subfamily) includes 6 members (SCL1, SCL5, SCL8, SCL13, SCL21 and PAT1), and among these, it was reported that PAT1 and SCL13 play a role in phytochrome A and B signal transduction pathways, respectively (Bolle et al. CITATION; Torres-Galea et al. CITATION). The branch II consists of SCL9, SCL11, SCL14, SCL30, SCL31, and SCL33, whose biological roles are largely unknown. In particular, SCL33, which encodes a polypeptide with 1336 amino acid residues, is unique among GRAS members due to the presence of two sets of GRAS signature motifs separated by an intron (940 bp). SHR, SCL29, and SCL32 belong to the branch III, and only SHR has been analyzed in detail (Helariutta et al. CITATION; Nakajima et al. CITATION). The branch IV comprises so-called “DELLA” proteins: GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, and RGL3, which are negative regulators of GA signaling (Peng et al. CITATION; Silverstone et al. CITATION; Dill and Sun CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION; Wen and Chang CITATION; Tyler et al. CITATION). LAS, SCR, and SCL23 appear to belong to the branch V, but only the robustness of node for SCR and SCL23 is strongly supported in our bootstrap analysis (Supplementary Fig. 1). Previous studies in rice and maize (monocots) also strongly supported the grouping of SCR and SCL23, suggesting that a gene duplication resulting in SCR and SCL23 predates the divergence of dicots and monocots (Tian et al. CITATION; Lim et al. CITATION). The branch VI includes only two members (SCL3 and SCL28), and the function of these members remains unknown. For the branch VII, only the node robustness for SCL4 and SCL7 is strongly supported in our bootstrap analysis, resulting in the grouping of only SCL4 and SCL7 together, even though SCL26 appears to belong to the same branch (Fig. 1b and Supplementary Fig. 1). The branch VIII consists of SCL6, SCL15, SCL22, and SCL27. It was previously reported that SCL6, SCL22, and SCL27 are the targets of miR171, and the transcripts of SCL6, SCL22, and SCL27 were cleaved by the action of miR171 (Llave et al. CITATION). However, the role of these members in relation to miR171 in growth and development still remains elusive. [[FIGURE]]  Previously, SCL16 was predicted as a pseudogene, but is currently annotated as unknown protein (At5g67411), which has a single intron (88 bp) (annotation version 7.0; TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org). With the analysis of its EST and cDNA sequences, we found that the amino acid sequence deduced from the current gene annotation of At5g67411 lacks the signature motifs of the GRAS family (annotation version 7.0; TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org). Recently, a large-scale genome annotation was reported using 5′ and 3′ RACE (Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends) (Moskal et al. CITATION). Thus, we reexamined the contigs of cDNA, EST, and RACE sequences currently available for At5g67411. When compared with other GRAS members, its ORF should be extended to both 5′ and 3′ ends from the current gene structure for At5g67411 to contain the signature motifs of VHIID, LHRI, LHRII, PFYRE and SAW (Supplementary Fig. 2). It is interesting to notice that the deduced amino acid sequence of the extended version for SCL16 with all the signature motifs contains frameshift and nonsense mutations in the ORF, suggesting that it has no potential to encode a functional GRAS protein (Supplementary Fig. 2). Our analysis of the rectified gene annotation of SCL16 strongly suggests that it is a putative expressed pseudogene. Alternatively, SCL16 may be an oddly unique member of the GRAS family, lacking the signature motifs. To help define the biological roles of the GRAS genes, we have taken a reverse genetic approach to isolate loss-of-function mutations in the GRAS genes. By searching the SIGnAL database (http://signal.salk.edu), we identified either T-DNA (SALK, SAIL or GABI-KAT), or transposon (RIKEN, SM or GT) insertional mutations, obtained seeds of insertion lines, and verified the authenticity of insertional mutations mainly by a PCR-based method depending on the nature of insertions. Approximately 20 individual plants per line were genotyped to identify homozygous plants for insertional mutations. Subsequently, the precise positions of insertions were determined by sequencing the PCR products. As a result, we identified homozygous plants for insertional mutations in almost all the GRAS genes, except for SCL21 and SCL30 (Fig. 2). All the lines have been backcrossed to wild-type (Col-0) plants at least once, and homozygous progeny were used for our analysis (see section ‘Materials and methods’). In 3 years, we have finished constructing a “phenome-ready unimutant collection” of the Arabidopsis GRAS genes. Since the alleles of the previously described mutations showed similar known phenotypes, we have focused on the characterization of loss-of-function mutants of 23 novel GRAS genes in our phenome-ready unimutant collection (Fig. 2). We also performed semi-quantitative RT-PCR to see if mutants are truly missing expression of the individual genes. As expected, the majority of homozygous mutants showed either complete loss (probably null) or reduced levels of gene expression (Supplementary Fig. 3). In some cases (scl29-1, scl33-1 and scl33-3), however, there was no change even in the mutant alleles at the levels of gene expression (Supplementary Fig. 3). On average, we were able to isolate 2 homozygous lines per gene in the 23 GRAS members. [[FIGURE]]  For the phenotypic analysis of seedlings, we compared each of the insertion lines with wild-type seedlings grown on MS plates with 1% sucrose under continuous light at 7 days after germination (DAG). In particular, we analyzed the root system to see if mutants have any growth or developmental defects. We found, however, that homozygous mutant seedlings appeared to have no obviously visible morphological phenotypes (Supplementary Fig. 4). Furthermore, we also compared each of loss-of-function mutants with wild-type plants grown for 4–7 weeks under the long day condition (16 h light/8 h dark cycles). In some cases, adult mutant plants appeared smaller or delayed (scl3-1, scl11-2, scl14-1, scl16-3, scl26-2 and scl26-1 in Fig. 3). However, our observation of these mutant plants in comparison with the allelic mutant plants revealed that phenotypes in different alleles fell into the range of variation as observed among wild-type (Col-0) plants grown simultaneously. In addition, we investigated the flower pattern to characterize any morphological defects. Disappointingly, we found that adult mutant plants exhibited no obvious visible phenotypes in growth and development under normal conditions (Fig. 3). These results suggest that highly similar GRAS members are functionally redundant, or some GRAS members function under specific stimuli and/or in specific tissues. [[FIGURE]]  To analyze the expression patterns of the GRAS genes, we have taken three independent approaches: quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) experiments, microarray data mining and GUS histochemical detection in Arabidopsis transgenic plants harboring the transcriptional fusions of the upstream regulatory sequences of GRAS genes to the GUS marker. With the use of gene-specific primers for each GRAS gene, we carried out qRT-PCR experiments in different tissue samples (Supplementary Table S2). Total RNA samples from flowers at mixed stages, rosette leaves, roots, and 10-day-old light-grown seedlings were used for our analysis. Approximately 100–200 bp PCR products were amplified unique to each GRAS gene. Among housekeeping genes examined, we found that the expression level of the ACTIN2 (ACT2, At3g18780) gene remained fairly constant, when compared to ACTIN7 (ACT7, At5g09810) and 18S rRNA (data not shown). Thus, we used ACT2 to normalize transcript levels of each GRAS gene in the samples (see Materials and methods). The relative transcript levels of 33 GRAS genes in the four tissue samples are shown in Fig. 4. The majority of GRAS genes exhibited tissue-specific expression patterns (Fig. 4). For instance, the overall expression level of SCL23 was quite low with the lowest expression in the root, as compared with that of SCR (Fig. 4e). In addition, we compared the expression patterns of 33 GRAS genes by qRT-PCR with the microarray results obtained from the GENEVESTIGATOR database (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at/; Zimmermann et al. CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. 5). There was no expression data on SCL16 in the microarray results. In the comparative expression analysis, we found that the expression patterns of individual GRAS genes were slightly different between our qRT-PCR and the microarray results from the database, possibly due to the use of the tissue sources at different developmental stages. Nevertheless, the overall expression patterns of individual GRAS genes in flowers, leaves, roots, and seedlings were similar between the expression results from two independent platforms, which substantiate their expression patterns. [[FIGURE]]  For the qualitative expression analysis, we tried to monitor the GUS reporter expression driven by the upstream regulatory sequences of each GRAS gene in transgenic plants. In this study, we obtained the promoter::GUS transcriptional fusion results from stable T2 plants for 11 GRAS genes (SCL4, SCL7, SCL9, SCL14, SCL21, SCL23, SCL27, SCL28, SCL30, SCL31, and SCL33) (Fig. 5). The expression patterns of pSCL4::GUS and pSCL7::GUS in the seedlings are distinct, partially overlapping in the aerial parts (Fig. 5a, b). GUS driven by pSCL4 and pSCL7 is observed rather uniformly in the leaf, whereas in flower it is detected mainly in sepals and filaments of stamen. In the seedlings at 14 DAG, expression of pSCL4::GUS and pSCL7::GUS is detected in the central vascular cylinder of the elongation zone in the root (data not shown). Expression of pSCL9::GUS is detected in the cotyledons and the vascular tissue in the root at which the expression is restricted to the elongation zone, and its expression is observed in the leaf and flower as well (Fig. 5c). In the seedlings with pSCL11::GUS, it is strongly expressed in the root, whereas in flower its expression is detected mainly in sepals and upper region of carpel (Fig. 5d). Expression of pSCL14::GUS in the root is observed broader in the elongation zone and also detected in the meristematic region, whereas pSCL21::GUS in the root is observed only in the elongation zone onwards (Fig. 5e, f). Interestingly, expression of pSCL23::GUS is found only in the aerial parts including the vascular tissue in the cotyledons and the shoot apex (Fig. 5g). Unlike SCR, the most closely related member, we found no expression of pSCL23::GUS in the root, suggesting that SCL23 plays a role in the aerial parts. Expression of pSCL27::GUS in the root is very similar to that of pSCL9::GUS (Fig. 5h). GUS driven by pSCL28 is restricted to the cotyledon tips and the meristematic region in the root (Fig. 5i). Intriguingly, pSCL30::GUS expression is detected specifically in the quiescent center in the root meristem, and its expression is dispersed along the root (Fig. 5j). The expression patterns of pSCL31::GUS and pSCL33::GUS are very similar, which are detected in the vascular tissue, root cap, and the meristematic region (Fig. 5k, l). Overall, our expression analyses reveal that the majority of GRAS genes are expressed in tissue-specific patterns. [[FIGURE]]  Usually, if not always, transcription regulators are found to be localized in the nucleus to turn on or off a group of target genes. Interestingly, the motifs in GRAS proteins possess the features of transcription regulators. To examine the localization of GRAS proteins, we attempted to produce Arabidopsis transgenic plants with the GFP translational fusions. We analyzed GFP localization in root cells of stable T2 plants by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. In total, we obtained GFP translational fusion results of 10 GRAS proteins (SCL4, SCL6, SCL7, SCL14, SCL15, SCL23, SCL27, SCL28, SCL30 and SCL32), which were mainly nuclear-localized (Fig. 6). Our results suggest that these GRAS proteins may act as transcription regulators. [[FIGURE]]  Recent study demonstrated that SCR and SHR directly interact, which plays a crucial role in regulating SHR movement (Cui et al. CITATION). In addition, transcription regulators frequently act as homo- or heterodimers to implement the mode of action. Thus, we tried to examine protein–protein interactions among GRAS members in yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assay. For Y2H assay, we also utilized the Gateway cloning technology to generate bait and prey clones (see section ‘Materials and methods’). In total, we constructed 28 pairs of bait and prey clones, and expression of two reporter genes (HIS3 and lacZ) was assayed for protein–protein interactions in yeast cells. Of 28 bait clones, 20 (71.4%) clones were able to activate the marker genes without prey clones (autoactivation), suggesting that these 20 GRAS members could act as transcription activators in yeast (Supplementary Table S4). Intriguingly, 8 of 20 autoactivating bait clones were previously reported as transcription regulators (Peng et al. CITATION; Silverstone et al. CITATION; Helariutta et al. CITATION; Dill and Sun CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION; Wen and Chang CITATION; Greb et al. CITATION; Tyler et al. CITATION; Torres-Galea et al. CITATION). Excluding these 20 autoactivating bait clones, we performed pair-wise Y2H assay. Surprisingly, we were unable to detect an interaction between the same GRAS members in yeast, suggesting that the GRAS proteins tested may not act as homodimers (Supplementary Table S4). In addition, our pair-wise analysis revealed that only two pairs showed protein–protein interactions. We confirmed the interaction between SHR and SCR, which plays an important role in the regulation of SHR movement as recently reported (Cui et al. CITATION, Welch et al. CITATION) (Fig. 7). It is interesting to notice that SCL23, the most closely related to SCR among the members, was also able to interact with SHR (Fig. 7 and Supplementary Table S4). No expression of SCL23, however, was observed in roots, suggesting its role in other SHR-involved developmental pathways. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! All plants used in this study were Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) and its derivatives except for scl6-1, scl27-1 (Nossen, No-0) and scl16-4 (Landsberg, Ler). Seeds were surface sterilized in 5% sodium hypochlorite and 0.15% Tween 20 for 3 min, rinsed in distilled water, and placed onto MS plates (1X Murashige-Skoog salts, 0.5 mM MES, pH5.7, 1% sucrose and 0.8% agar). The seeds were cold-treated at 4°C for 3 days, and were grown vertically for 7–10 days under continuous light. For the phenotypic analysis of adult plants, light-grown seedlings were transferred onto soil, and were grown for 4–6 weeks under the long day conditions (16 h light/ 8 h dark cycle). The full-length ORF sequences of GRAS genes were extracted from the TAIR database (annotation version 7.0; TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org), and were converted into the amino acid sequences that were initially aligned using the ClustalX program with default gap penalties (Thompson et al. CITATION). These alignments were then manually adjusted to minimize insertion/deletion events as previously described (Lim et al. CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis using parsimony (PAUP* 4.0b10; Swofford CITATION) was used to infer the evolutionary relationships among GRAS members. The phylogenetic tree was constructed by the neighbor-joining method (Saitou and Nei CITATION) using a human (Homo sapiens) STAT1 protein (AAH02704) as an outgroup. The bootstrap analysis was conducted to measure node robustness using 2000 replicates (Felsenstein CITATION). To construct a phenome-ready unimutant collection for GRAS genes, we identified T-DNA or transposon insertional mutations in the GRAS genes by searching the SALK database (SIGnAL; http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). Seeds were obtained from ABRC, NASC and RIKEN, and homozygous mutants were identified by a combination of gene-specific primers for each GRAS gene, and T-DNA or transposon border primers. The resulting PCR products were sequenced to verify the positions of insertional mutations (Supplementary Table S1). Homozygous mutants were, in turn, backcrossed to wild type (Col-0) plants, and homozygous plants for insertional mutations were identified in F2 generation. To verify that homozygous plants are loss-of-function mutants of the individual genes, we carried out semi-quantitative RT-PCR with gene-specific primers (Supplementary Table S1). Total RNA samples were isolated from 10-day-light-grown seedlings or rosette leaves, using the RNeasy Plant RNA Mini Kit (QIAGEN, http://www.qiagen.com) with RNase-free DNaseI. RNA integrity was confirmed by gel electrophoresis stained with ethidium bromide, and the quantity of each RNA sample was measured by spectrophotometry. Reverse transcription was carried out with Superscript II RNase H-reverse transcriptase (INVITROGEN, http://www.invirogen.com), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The synthesized cDNA samples served as templates. For the analysis of tissue-specific expression of 33 GRAS genes by qRT-PCR, total RNA samples were isolated from 10-day-light-grown seedlings, rosette leaves, flowers and roots as described above. For qRT-PCR, gene-specific primers were employed to amplify approximately 100–200 bp PCR products unique to each gene (Supplementary Table S2). The qRT-PCR reactions were performed with the Mx3000P machine (STRATAGENE, http://www.stratagene.com), using SYBR Green Master Mix (QIAGEN, http://www.qiagen.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For the internal reference, ACTIN2 (At3g18780) was used, and the relative expression of each GRAS gene was evaluated. Experiments were carried out independently with RNA samples of biological triplicates. The mean values of triplicates were calculated, and the standard errors (±SE) were indicated. For microarray data mining, we obtained the microarray results of 32 GRAS genes (except for SCL16). The relative expression levels are displayed with the standard errors (±SE). Expression of the GUS reporter was monitored in T1, T2 and T3 transgenic plants. The transgenic plants were treated in GUS staining buffer (5 mM potassium ferrocyanide; 5 mM potassium ferricyanide; 0.5 M EDTA, pH 8.0; 1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0; 0.1 % Triton X-100; and 20 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide) for 2–16 h at 37°C in the dark. The staining was terminated by replacing the staining solution with 70% ethanol solution. Samples were stored at 4°C until observation with Stemi 2000-C stereo microscope or Axio Imager compound microscope (CARL ZEISS, http://www.zeiss.com). To generate transgenic plants with the promoter::GUS fusions, putative promoter regions upstream of the translation initiation codon of each GRAS were amplified using Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0) genomic DNA with Phusion High-Fidelity DNA polymerase (FINNZYMES, http://www.finnzymes.com) (Supplementary Table S3). Each PCR product was subcloned into either pENTR Directional TOPO or pDONR221 vector using the Gateway recombination cloning technology according to the manufacturer’s instructions (INVITROGEN, http://www.invitrogen.com), except for the promoter region of SCL23. Subsequently, each promoter fragment was transferred to the pMDC162 Gateway-compatible binary vector (Curtis and Grossniklaus, CITATION) by recombination reactions, according to the manufacturer’s instruction (INVITROGEN, http://www.invitrogen.com). For SCL23, the amplified promoter fragment was digested with XbaI and BamHI restriction enzymes, and subcloned directly into the XbaI-BamHI site of the pBI101 vector. All promoter fragments were completely sequenced, and full details are given in Supplementary Table S3. For GFP subcellular localization, the full-length open reading frames (ORFs) were amplified using either genomic DNA of Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants (for the GRAS genes with no intron), or cDNA clones (for the GRAS genes with introns). Each fragment was cloned into the pENTR Directional TOPO vector as described above. Subsequently, each error-free full-length ORF in pENTR was transferred to the pMDC43 Gateway-compatible binary vector by recombination reactions to generate N-terminal GFP translational fusions as previously described (Curtis and Grossniklaus CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants were transformed using standard procedures for floral dipping (Clough and Bent CITATION). After selection of transformed plants on medium containing antibiotics, the presence of each construct was verified by PCR. We observed the GFP localization in root cells of transgenic seedlings at 4 DAG with propidium iodide staining (10 μg/ml) under a Zeiss LSM510 meta confocal microscope (CARL ZEISS, http://www.zeiss.com) with excitation mirrors 488 and 543 nm, and emission filters 505–530 nm and 561–700 nm to record images as described previously (Lee and Schiefelbein CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assay was performed as described previously (Welch et al. CITATION) using the ProQuest Two Hybrid System (INVITROGEN, http://www.invitrogen.com). For the bait and prey protein fusions, the full-length ORF of each GRAS member (except for SCL9, SCL11, SCL16, PAT1, and SCL33) in pENTR was recombined with both pDEST32 and pDEST22, according to the manufacturer’s instructions (INVITROGEN, http://www.invitrogen.com). The pDEST32 vector possesses GAL4 DNA-binding domain (DB), whereas the pDEST22 vector has GAL4 activation domain (AD). To test whether bait clone alone can activate the marker genes without prey clones (autoactivation), yeast cells were selected on the media without leucine and tryptophan (-Leu, Trp) supplemented with 30 mM of 3-aminotriazole (3-AT, SIGMA-ALDRICH, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com). Furthermore, we confirmed protein–protein interactions, growing yeast cells on the media without leucine, tryptophan and histidine (-Leu, Trp, His) supplemented with 30 mM 3-AT. Excluding 20 autoactivating bait clones, pair-wise Y2H assay was implemented according to the manufacturer’s instructions (INVITROGEN, http://www.invitrogen.com).
