!~ABS~! Complete and accurate chromosomal DNA replication is essential for the maintenance of the genetic integrity of all organisms. Errors in replication are buffered by the activation of DNA stress checkpoints; however, in plants, the relative importance of a coordinated induction of DNA repair and cell cycle‐arresting genes in the survival of replication mutants is unknown. In a systematic screen for Arabidopsis thaliana E2F target genes, the E2F TARGET GENE 1 (ETG1) was identified as a novel evolutionarily conserved replisome factor. ETG1 was associated with the minichromosome maintenance complex and was crucial for efficient DNA replication. Plants lacking the ETG1 gene had serrated leaves due to cell cycle inhibition triggered by the DNA replication checkpoints, as shown by the transcriptional induction of DNA stress checkpoint genes. The importance of checkpoint activation was highlighted by double mutant analysis: whereas etg1 mutant plants developed relatively normally, a synthetically lethal interaction was observed between etg1 and the checkpoint mutants wee1 and atr, demonstrating that activation of a G2 cell cycle checkpoint accounts for survival of ETG1‐deficient plants.
!~RES~! Previously, we have identified 70 conserved plant E2F target genes (CITATION). This list holds 40 known regulators of DNA replication and chromatin dynamics, but also 21 genes with unknown function. To identify novel S‐phase regulatory genes, we screened the latter phenotypically with T‐DNA insertion lines. One of the insertion lines showed an endoreduplication phenotype and was designated E2F TARGET GENE 1 (ETG1; At2g40550). To address the role of the ETG1 gene in plant growth and development, we analysed the loss‐of‐function effect of ETG1 with two independent T‐DNA insertion lines. The T‐DNA was inserted into the first intron (etg1‐1; SALK_071046) or last exon (etg1‐2; SALK_145460) of the ETG1 gene (FIG-REF). ETG1 transcripts were not detected in the etg1‐1 mutant, whereas the transcript level was 80% reduced in etg1‐2, when compared to control plants (FIG-REF). In etg1 mutant seedlings, plant growth appeared macroscopically normal (FIG-REF). However, by comparing the DNA ploidy level of wild‐type leaves with that of etg1‐1 and etg1‐2 mutants, the distribution of the C values was slightly, but significantly, changed: in etg1 mutants, the population of cells with an 8C and 16C DNA ploidy level had increased, demonstrating that deficiency in ETG1 stimulated endoreduplication (FIG-REF). A similar effect was seen in root tissue (Supplementary Figure S1). The increase in the DNA ploidy level of etg1 mutants probably originated from an advanced onset of the endocycle, as illustrated by the faster increase in the population of cells with an 8C and 16C DNA content during leaf development (Supplementary Figure S2). [[FIGURE]] When the first leaf pair from wild‐type and etg1 mutant plants at maturity was compared, the leaf blade area was almost identical for both genotypes (FIG-REF). By contrast, the average abaxial pavement cell area had increased significantly in the mutant plants (FIG-REF), accompanied with a decrease in cell number per leaf (FIG-REF). At the bolting stage, younger leaves showed a slightly elongated and serrated leaf phenotype (FIG-REF), resembling the phenotype observed in plants whose cell division is inhibited by ectopic expression of the CDK inhibitory gene KRP2 (CITATION). In addition, the root growth rate of the mutant plants was significantly reduced (Supplementary Figure S3). To study the effect of loss of ETG1 function on cell cycle progression in more detail, kinematics of leaf growth was analysed. From day 5 until day 22 after sowing, the first leaves of etg1‐1 and wild‐type plants grown side by side under the same conditions were harvested and the leaf blade area and the average cell area of the abaxial epidermal cells was measured by image analysis (CITATION; CITATION). The total cell number was extrapolated as the ratio of leaf blade and average cell areas. Although the leaf blade area was similar in the wild‐type and etg1‐1 plants during the whole period of leaf development (FIG-REF), the average cell area, which initially was approximately 100 μm2 in both plants, increased significantly faster in the etg1‐1 mutant (FIG-REF). The average surface area of etg1‐1 cells was 155% that of wild‐type cells at maturity (3880±320 versus 2500±255 μm2). Simultaneously, the number of epidermal cells of etg1‐1 was only approximately 60% that of the wild type (6650±530 versus 11 170±1017 cells; FIG-REF). Until day 9 after sowing, the average cell division rate for the whole leaf, calculated on the basis of the increase in cell numbers over time, were constantly lower in the etg1‐1 than in wild‐type leaves (FIG-REF). The average cell cycle duration between days 5 and 9, estimated as the inverse of the cell division rate, was significantly longer in the etg1‐1 mutant (25.3 h) than that in the wild‐type plants (21.1 h). In summary, these data illustrate that ETG1‐deficient plants suffer from a cell cycle delay, with a reduced total cell number that is offset by an enlarged cell size. [[FIGURE]] To pinpoint the cell cycle arrest point, we measured the ratio of 4C/2C cells of 8‐day‐old leaves by flow cytometry. At this time point, leaf cells of both genotypes divide (FIG-REF); consequently, 2C and 4C cells represent G1 and G2 cells, respectively. By comparing the ploidy level of wild type and etg1‐1, a significant increase in the 4C/2C cell ratio was observed (0.29±0.06 and 0.79±0.04 in wild‐type and etg1‐1 plants, respectively; FIG-REF). These data indicate that the G2‐to‐M transition was inhibited in the etg1‐1 mutant. Analysis of the expression levels of cell cycle marker genes by real‐time reverse transcriptase (RT)–PCR revealed that the transcript level of the G2/M‐phase‐specific CYCB1;1, CDKB1;1, and KNOLLE genes had increased in the etg1‐1 mutant, whereas those of the S‐phase‐specific histone H4 and CYCA3;1 genes was unaltered (FIG-REF). Despite the increased transcript levels of G2/M‐phase‐specific genes, a decrease in A‐type CDK activity was observed in the etg1‐1 mutant plants (Supplementary Figure S4), in agreement with the observed growth delay and extended cell cycle duration. Counting the number of root cells within the meristem in either metaphase or anaphase/telophase showed that the amount of M‐phase nuclei was approximately two‐fold lower in the etg1 mutant than that of wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). Combined with the observed cell cycle delay, these data indicate a prolonged G2 phase in the etg1 mutant. More particularly, induction of the CYCB1;1 and KNOLLE genes implies that the cell cycle arrest occurs around late G2. [[FIGURE]] The ETG1 gene had originally been identified by microarray analysis as an induced transcript in plants ectopically expressing the heterodimeric E2Fa‐DPa transcription factor (CITATION). This induction was confirmed by quantitative real‐time PCR analysis (FIG-REF). To analyse whether the ETG1 gene was directly regulated by E2F transcription factors, we looked for the presence of consensus E2F‐binding sites in its putative promoter region. Two consensus E2F‐binding elements were found, ATTCCCGC and TTTCCCGC (158 and 136 bp upstream from the putative start codon, respectively), both in a reverse orientation (FIG-REF). To address whether ETG1 is an E2F target gene in vivo, we used ChIP with antibodies against E2Fa, E2Fb, and E2Fc. Promoter fragments of the ETG1 gene were specifically amplified from the anti‐E2Fa and anti‐E2Fb immunoprecipitates. These results indicate that E2Fa and E2Fb can bind directly to the ETG1 promoter in vivo, probably participating in the regulation of its expression. By contrast, the ETG1 promoter sequences were not recovered from the immunoprecipitates with anti‐E2Fc antibodies (FIG-REF). Correspondingly, ETG1 expression levels were not altered in plants that overexpress E2Fc (Supplementary Figure S5). [[FIGURE]] The regulation of the ETG1 promoter activity through its E2F consensus sites was further analysed with transgenic plants expressing the β‐glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under control of the ETG1 promoter. To define the contribution of each of the E2F‐binding sites, we deleted exactly either one (ΔI or ΔII) or both (ΔI, II) of the E2F elements. More than five independent transgenic lines were analysed per gene construct, all with identical results. In 6‐day‐old seedlings, high levels of ETG1 expression were observed in the shoot apical and root meristems (FIG-REF). This expression pattern matched that of the E2Fa and DPa genes (CITATION). Deletion of either one of the E2F‐binding elements (ΔI or ΔII) led to GUS activity patterns identical to those of plants carrying the wild‐type ETG1 promoter (FIG-REF). In contrast, deletion of both E2F‐binding elements resulted in a drastic decrease in promoter activity (FIG-REF). These results suggest that E2Fa and E2Fb bind both E2F consensus elements in the ETG1 promoter and regulate its expression in dividing tissues. The ETG1 gene encodes a protein of 598 amino‐acid residues (Supplementary Figure S6). ETG1 is a singleton in Arabidopsis. No specific amino‐acid domain could be identified with the exception of a putative nuclear localization signal, PFKKMKV (amino acids 184–190), suggesting that ETG1 resides in the nucleus. To investigate the subcellular localization of ETG1, a fusion protein of ETG1 and an enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) was transiently produced in leaf epidermal cells of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). ETG1–eGFP fluorescence was observed in the nucleus only, illustrating that ETG1 is a nuclear protein (FIG-REF). Orthologous proteins of ETG1 were found in rice (Oryza sativa; Os01g0166800), human (Homo sapiens; C10orf119), mouse (Mus musculus; 1110007A13Rik), Xenopus laevis (CAJ81286), Drosophila melanogaster (CG3430), and fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe; SPAC1687.04) (Supplementary Figure S6), but none in budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Interestingly, the transcript of the human ETG1 is significantly upregulated in brain cancer, breast cancer, and seminoma (http://www.oncomine.org). [[FIGURE]] Coexpression patterns can reveal networks of functionally related genes and provide a deeper understanding of processes requiring multiple gene products (CITATION; CITATION). To predict the ETG1 function, we searched for genes coexpressed with ETG1 by using the ATTED‐II coexpression database (CITATION). This search revealed that ETG1 is highly coexpressed with genes encoding DNA replication proteins, such as the MCM family proteins (MCM2, MCM3, MCM4, MCM5, and MCM7), proliferating cell nuclear antigen proteins (PCNA1 and PCNA2), DNA primase small subunit protein, and DNA polymerase α subunits (Table I). Moreover, when searching for proteins interacting with orthologous ETG1 proteins with the BioGRID protein interactions database (http://www.thebiogrid.org/index.php), we found that the Drosophila orthologue CG3430 interacted with the MCM5 protein. An identical interaction between the Arabidopsis ETG1 and MCM5 (At2g07690) proteins was demonstrated with the yeast two‐hybrid system (FIG-REF). This protein–protein interaction was confirmed in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments (CITATION; CITATION). The sequences coding for ETG1 and MCM5 were fused in frame with either the N‐terminal or C‐terminal fragment of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (ETG1–YFPN or MCM5‐YFPC, respectively). Interaction between the different fusion proteins was tested by introducing them into tobacco leaf epidermal cells. YFP fluorescence was observed in the nuclei of cells transfected with ETG1–YFPN and MCM5–YFPC, demonstrating that the ETG1 protein interacted with MCM5 in the plant nucleus (FIG-REF; ETG1–YFPN and MCM5–YFPC). As expected, no fluorescence was detected when any combination with empty vectors was introduced into tobacco cells (FIG-REF; ETG1–YFPN and YFPC, YFPN and MCM5–YFPC). When the subcellular localization of MCM5 was examined in plants with MCM5–eGFP, the fusion protein MCM5–eGFP resided in both the nucleus and cytoplasm (FIG-REF). [[TABLE]] To identify additional ETG1‐associated proteins, tandem affinity purification (TAP) was confirmed with MALDI‐TOF‐TOF‐MS‐based protein identification (CITATION). Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were stably transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens‐mediated cocultivation with a Pro35S:TAP‐ETG1 cassette. On the basis of the presence of the double tag, two‐step affinity purification was performed. Besides MCM5, we identified five interacting proteins, including other components of the MCM complex, namely MCM2 (At1g44900), MCM3 (At5g46280), MCM4 (At2g16440), MCM6 (At5g44635), and MCM7 (At4g02060) (Table II; Supplementary Figure S7). Combined with the subcellular localization results, these data indicate that ETG1 assembled into the replisome complex. Therefore, ETG1 depletion was expected to affect the efficiency of DNA replication. This hypothesis was substantiated by the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation rate that was lower in etg1‐1 mutant plants than that in the control plants (FIG-REF). Although this decrease in BrdU incorporation might be unexpected in the light of the observed increase in the endoreduplication level, the reason might be that the endocycle is far slower than the mitotic cell cycle (CITATION). Therefore, because of the short labelling period, the BrdU label probably refers to the mitotic S phase only. [[TABLE]] Inhibition of DNA replication in Arabidopsis results in the simultaneous induction of DNA repair genes and the cell cycle inhibitory WEE1 gene that arrests cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle (CITATION). The decreased rate of BrdU incorporation and observed interaction of ETG1 with MCM proteins suggested that the G2 arrest noticed in ETG1‐deficient plants might be the consequence of replication checkpoint activation. The activation of a cell cycle checkpoint might be the reason for the observed decrease in CDK activity as well. To test this hypothesis, we compared the expression levels of the RAD51 (DNA repair) and WEE1 (cell cycle checkpoint) marker genes by real‐time RT–PCR in wild‐type and etg1 mutant plants. Ionizing radiation (for example, γ‐irradiation and UV light), DNA replication inhibitory drugs (for example, hydroxyurea and aphidicolin), and radiomimetic agents (such as bleomycin) are known to induce RAD51 and WEE1 expression (CITATION; CITATION). Expression of both RAD51 and WEE1 was significantly upregulated in the etg1‐1 (FIG-REF) and similarly in etg1‐2 seedlings (data not shown). Activation of the DNA stress checkpoint was confirmed by using plants that carried as transgenes promoters of PARP2 and WEE1 fused to GUS, which are markers for DNA stress and activation of the replication checkpoint, respectively (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). No GUS activity was observed in PARP2:GUS plants grown under non‐stress conditions (FIG-REF). By contrast, treatment of the PARP2:GUS reporter line with bleomycin resulted in a strong induction of GUS activity (FIG-REF), demonstrating the DNA stress‐inducible promoter activity. Similarly, PARP2 promoter activity was induced in an etg1‐1 background in the absence of any external DNA stress stimulus (FIG-REF). Especially, GUS activity was strongly induced in shoot apical meristem and vascular cells. Analogous results were obtained with WEE1:GUS reporter plants. In control plants, WEE1 expression was observed in the shoot apex and vascular cells (FIG-REF; CITATION). This expression pattern was intensified in the etg1‐1 background (FIG-REF), confirming the real‐time RT–PCR experiments. The ETG1 gene itself was not induced under conditions that cause DNA stress, such as γ‐irradiation or UV‐B treatment (CITATION; CITATION). Additionally, etg1‐1 mutant plants were not hypersensitive to hydroxyurea or bleomycin (Supplementary Figure S8). [[FIGURE]] DNA replication stress caused by blocking of the replication fork is mainly sensed by the ATR kinase (CITATION). Previously, we have demonstrated that the WEE1 gene is transcriptionally activated upon replication stress in an ATR‐dependent manner and transiently arrests cells in the G2 phase, allowing them to finalize DNA replication before proceeding into mitosis (CITATION). When the increased cell cycle duration observed in the etg1 mutant plants is assumed to result from the activation of the replication checkpoint, ETG1 deficiency is expected to have a dramatic impact on the development of plants that are unable to arrest their cell cycle in response to DNA stress. To test this hypothesis, double mutants were constructed between etg1‐1 and two DNA stress checkpoint mutants, atr‐2 and wee1‐1. WEE1‐deficient plants fail to arrest their cell cycle when DNA replication is perturbed, but DNA repair genes are still induced (CITATION; T Cools, DI and LDV, unpublished data). In contrast, atr mutant plants fail both to arrest their cell cycle and to induce repair genes (CITATION, CITATION). Both wee1‐1 and atr‐2 mutants were hypersensitive to replication‐blocking or DNA‐damaging drugs, but were viable and developed normally in the absence of exogenous DNA stress treatments (FIG-REF). By contrast, etg1‐1 wee1‐1 and etg1‐1 atr‐2 double mutant plants had a dwarf phenotype under non‐stress conditions, illustrating a synthetic interaction between ETG1 and WEE1, or ATR (FIG-REF). Scanning electron microscopy revealed severe growth suppression (FIG-REF). Especially, the size of trichomes was reduced in the double mutants (FIG-REF). No significant difference in leaf epidermal cell shape was observed in etg1‐1 wee1‐1 double mutants, whereas cells lost their jigsaw‐like shape in etg1‐1 atr‐2 plants (FIG-REF). The double mutants arrested at an early stage of development. These results unequivocally indicate that the activation of the DNA replication checkpoint in etg1 mutant plants is essential for their survival. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Leaves were chopped with a razor blade in 300 μl of buffer (45 mM MgCl2, 30 mM sodium citrate, 20 mM 3‐[N‐morpholino]propanesulphonic acid, pH 7, and 1% Triton X‐100). To the supernatants, 1 μl of 4,6‐diamidino‐2phenylindole (DAPI) from a stock of 1 mg/ml was added, which was filtered over a 30‐μm mesh. The nuclei were analysed with the CyFlow flow cytometer and the FloMax software (Partec, Münster, Germany). At least three biological and two technical replicates were used for each sample analysed. Roots were fixed in a solution of formaldehyde, ethanol, and acetic acid (2:17:1) for 12 h at 4°C, washed twice in water, and mounted under cover slips. The samples were crushed, snap‐frozen with liquid nitrogen to remove the cover slip, and mounted in Vectashield (Vector Laboratories) containing 1 μg/ml DAPI. The roots were analysed for mitotic stages with a Zeiss Axiovert fluorescence microscope. TAP experiments were carried out according to CITATION. In short, the ETG1‐coding sequence was cloned by recombination into the pKNTAP vector, generating a Pro35S:TAP‐ETG1 cassette (pKNTAPETG1). Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were stably transformed by Agrobacterium‐mediated cocultivation with pKNTAPETG1. Transformed Arabidopsis cells were selected and transferred to a liquid medium for upscaling. Expression levels of TAP‐tagged proteins were checked by protein blotting with an anti‐calmodulin‐binding protein antibody (data not shown). In the first round of affinity purification, protein extracts of 15 g plant material were incubated with an IgG resin. Bound complexes were released and eluted from the resin by tag cleavage with TEV protease. In the second affinity step on a calmodulin agarose column, co‐eluting non‐interacting proteins and the TEV protease were removed with the flow‐through. Finally, both the ETG1 bait and interacting proteins were eluted from the calmodulin agarose through EGTA‐mediated removal of calcium. Eluted proteins were separated on 4–12% NuPAGE gels, excised, and analysed by MALDI‐TOF‐TOF‐MS as described (CITATION). To increase the stringency of the data set, contaminating proteins due to experimental background as determined by CITATION were systematically subtracted from the lists of co‐purified proteins. Seedlings (3 day old) grown on MS agar plates were incubated in the labelling solution with 10 μM BrdU (Roche) at room temperature for 3 h. After treatment, the genomic DNA was extracted with a DNeasy® Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). The amount of incorporated BrdU was determined by ELISA with an anti‐BrdU‐POD antibody (Roche). Three biological and two technical replicates were used at each time point for ELISA. Here, 50 μl of the extracted DNA (0.2 μg/ml) was placed in each well. The ELISA procedure was chiefly that of the 5‐bromo‐2′‐deoxyuridine Labeling and Detection Kit III (Roche). Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
