!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, MYB transcription factors regulate flavonoid biosynthesis via the formation of protein complexes with a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor and a WD40 repeat protein. Several R3-type single-MYB proteins (R3-MYB), such as CPC and TRY, act as negative regulators of the development of epidermal cells. However, such regulators of flavonoid biosynthesis have not yet been reported, to our knowledge. We show here that an R3-MYB protein, AtMYBL2, acts as a transcriptional repressor and negatively regulates the biosynthesis of anthocyanin in Arabidopsis. In an AtMYBL2 knockout line (mybl2), the expression of the DFR and TT8 genes was enhanced and resulted in the ectopic accumulation of anthocyanin, while ectopic expression of AtMYBL2 or of a chimeric repressor that is a dominant negative form of AtMYBL2 suppressed the expression of DFR and TT8, and the biosynthesis of anthocyanin. The expression of AtMYBL2 was detected in various tissues but not in those in which anthocyanin accumulated or TT8 was expressed. The minimal repression domain of AtMYBL2 was found to be the six amino acids (TLLLFR) at the carboxyl terminus, and TLLLFR appears to be a novel repression motif that is different from the ERF-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif. The defective phenotype of mybl2 mutants was complemented by 35S:AtMYBL2 but enhanced by a truncated form of AtMYBL2 from which the repression domain had been deleted. AtMYBL2 bound directly to TT8 protein and this complex suppressed the expression of DFR and TT8. The repression activity of AtMYBL2 appears to play a critical role in the regulation of anthocyanin biosynthesis.
!~RES~! We reported previously that the expression of a chimeric repressor derived from the anthocyanin regulatory factor, PAP1 (35S:PAP1SRDX), suppressed tannin deposition in seeds and resulted in a pale seed color (CITATION). To investigate whether AtMYBL2 is involved in the regulation of flavonoid biosynthesis, we expressed the chimeric AtMYBL2 repressor (35S:AtMYBL2SRDX) and examined the seed color of the resultant transgenic Arabidopsis. Twenty of 46 T2 transgenic lines of 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants had light-yellow seeds (data not shown). The ectopic expression of AtMYBL2 (35S:AtMYBL2) also resulted in yellow seeds that were similar in color to those of 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants (Figure 1c). By contrast, an AtMYBL2 T-DNA-tagged line (SALK_126807, mybl2) had dark-brown seeds similar to those of the wild type (data not shown). This tagged line includes T-DNA in the 3′-untranslated (UTR) region of the AtMYBL2 gene (Figure 1d) and we confirmed the absence of the AtMYBL2 transcript (see Figure 5a). Our observations suggested that AtMYBL2 might be involved in flavonoid biosynthesis and that AtMYBL2 is a possible repressor, since ectopic expression of AtMYBL2 and the expression of the chimeric repressor resulted in similar phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional involvement of AtMYBL2 in the regulation of anthocyanin biosynthesis, we treated plants with 6% sucrose for 5 days. Under this stress condition, wild-type plants accumulated anthocyanin as purple pigment in rosettes (Figure 1e,f), while the 35S:AtMYBL2 and the 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants did not accumulate anthocyanin under the stress condition (Figure 1e,g,i; CITATION). By contrast, mybl2 plants accumulated anthocyanin in stems under stress-free conditions, and this accumulation was enhanced with aging and by sucrose stress (Figure 1e,j,k). Quantitative analysis showed that, under a stressed condition, wild-type and mybl2 plants accumulated high levels of anthocyanin in rosette leaves while no such accumulation was evident in the 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX and the 35S:AtMYBL2 plants (Figure 1l). In addition, expression of two anthocyanin biosynthetic genes, namely DFR and LDOX, was clearly suppressed in both 35S:AtMYBL2 and 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants even under stress-free conditions, while expression of these genes was enhanced in mybl2 plants (Figure 1m). Analysis by RT-PCR revealed that AtMYBL2 was expressed in various tissues, including root, seedling, rosette leaf, stem, flower and silique (Figure 2a). Promoter analysis of the AtMYBL2 genes using a ProAtMYBL2:GUS reporter gene, revealed promoter activity in the portion of cotyledons in which no anthocyanin accumulated in seedlings (Figure 2b). In adult plants, promoter activity was more prominent in rosette leaves, sepals and siliques, but less prominent in roots and petioles, and absent from trichomes and seeds (Figure 2c–g). Consistent with the results of the promoter analysis, expression of the chimeric AtMYBL2 repressor driven by its own promoter (ProAtMYBL2:AtMYBL2SRDX) reduced the anthocyanin content of rosette leaves by suppressing expression of DFR and LDOX (Figure 1m), but it had no effect on seeds because of absence of expression in seeds, in contrast to the seeds of 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants (Figure 1b). These results indicated that AtMYBL2 plays a role as a negative regulator in the biosynthesis of anthocyanin. [[FIGURE]] Transient expression assays with the 35S-GAL4:LUC reporter gene, in which the luciferase gene (LUC) was controlled by the CaMV 35S promoter with five copies of the GAL4-binding site immediately upstream of the TATA box (Figure 3) and an effector gene composed of the AtMYBL2 coding region and the yeast GAL4 DNA-binding domain (35S:GAL4DB-L2F; CITATION), revealed that AtMYBL2 repressed the activity of the reporter gene (Figure 3). Further transient expression assays with truncated AtMYBL2 constructs revealed that the carboxy-terminal region of residues 142–195 (L2CE) fused with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain had strong repressive activity. Since the truncated AtMYBL2, in which the carboxy-terminal region had been deleted (L2N), had no repressive activity, we postulated that the repression domain of AtMYBL2 was located in this region. Because a putative EAR-like motif (DLNIGL, residues 157–162) is present in AtMYBL2, we replaced the leucine and isoleucine residues in the putative EAR-like motif by alanine residues (L2m2 and L2m3). However, these substitutions did not affect the repressive activity, indicating that the repression domain of AtMYBL2 is located in another region. Further analysis revealed that the 13 amino acids at the carboxy-terminal end, residues 183–195 (L2C), were sufficient for repressive activity, and the repressive activity of AtMYBL2 was abolished when these 13 amino acids were deleted (L2ΔC). Furthermore, the six amino acids TLLLFR, but not the five amino acids LLLFR, were found to constitute the minimal domain for repression (Figure 3). Substitution of all leucine residues in TLLLFR by alanine (TAAAFR) abolished repressive activity, while replacement of the second leucine residue by alanine (TLALFR) did not affect the repressive activity (Figure 3). The repressive activity of this domain was confirmed with a combination of a different activator and reporter genes (35S:AtERF5 and GAL4x5-GCCx4:LUC; CITATION; data not shown). Our results demonstrated that AtMYBL2 is an active repressor and its repressive activity is attributable to the carboxy-terminal region of six amino acids, TLLLFR. [[FIGURE]] We confirmed that expression of 35S:AtMYBL2 complemented the defective phenotype of mybl2 plants and it suppressed the ectopic accumulation of anthocyanin and reduced the level of expression of DFR to a level similar to that in wild-type plants (Figure 4a,b,g). By contrast, the expression of truncated AtMYBL2, in which the carboxy-terminal repression domain had been deleted (35S:AtMYBL2ΔC), did not complement the phenotype of mybl2 plants but induced the accumulation of anthocyanin in cotyledons, on abaxial surfaces of the first to fourth rosette leaves and in petioles (Figure 4c). The level of expression of the DFR gene in 35S:AtMYBL2ΔC mybl2 plants was >50-fold higher than in wild-type controls and about 10-fold higher than in mybl2 plants (Figure 4g). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the promoter activity of DFR with a ProDFR:GUS reporter gene revealed the promoter activity of DFR in petioles of wild-type rosette leaves and a similar pattern was also observed in 35S:AtMYBL2 mybl2 plants (Figure 4d,e). In 35S:AtMYBL2ΔC mybl2 plants, the promoter activity of DFR was also detected in cotyledons, rosette leaves, stems and roots (Figure 4f). These results were consistent with the pattern of expression of DFR mRNA shown in Figure 4(g) and indicated that AtMYBL2 suppresses the accumulation of anthocyanin by suppressing the expression of DFR and, moreover, that the repressive activity of AtMYBL2 might play a critical role in suppression of the accumulation of anthocyanin. We examined the expression of genes for transcription factors that are involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. We determined levels of transcripts of the endogenous AtMYBL2, PAP1, PAP2, EGL3, TT8 and GL3 genes by quantitative RT-PCR, using RNA extracted from 2-week-old rosette leaves of 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX, 35S:AtMYBL2 and mybl2 plants, respectively, which had all been grown on MS plates (Figure 5a). Endogenous AtMYBL2 was expressed at a similar level in 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX, 35S:AtMYBL2 and wild-type plants but not in mybl2 plants, suggesting that the expression of AtMYBL2 is not autoregulated. Among the genes investigated, only the expression of TT8 was drastically enhanced in mybl2 plants and was suppressed in 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX and 35S:AtMYBL2 plants, when compared with that in the wild type. By contrast, the expression of PAP1, PAP2, EGL3 and GL3 was not affected in mybl2, in 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX or in 35S:AtMYBL2 plants (Figure 5a). Analysis of the promoter activity of TT8 using a ProTT8:GUS reporter gene revealed activity in the lower part of petioles and in the main veins of rosette leaves of wild-type plants (Figure 5c). In mybl2 plants, the promoter activity of TT8 extended throughout the entire petiole and the vascular region of the rosette leaves and it was also observed in the region of the axillary stems in which anthocyanins were deposited (Figure 5e,g). In addition, slight promoter activity was detected in the pistils and immature seeds of wild-type and mybl2 plants (Figure 5f,h). By contrast, no TT8 promoter activity was detected in 35S:AtMYBL2SRDX plants (Figure 5d). Thus, loss of function of AtMYBL2 resulted in enhancement of the promoter activity of TT8, suggesting that AtMYBL2 negatively regulates the expression of the TT8 gene. By contrast, the expression of AtMYBL2 was clearly suppressed in a tt8 mutant plant but was significantly enhanced in the TT8-overexpressing plants (Figure 5b), suggesting that TT8 positively regulates the expression of AtMYBL2. AtMYBL2 was shown to interact with GL3, EGL3 and TT8 in a yeast system (CITATION; CITATION). Our transient expression assays with the 35S-5xGAL4:LUC reporter gene and 35S:GAL4DB-TT8 and 35S:AtMYBL2 effector genes showed that expression of either GAL4DB-TT8 or AtMYBL2 alone did not affect the expression of the reporter gene but expression of the reporter gene was prominently suppressed when these two effectors were expressed simultaneously (Figure 6a). Since 35S:AtMYBL2 is unlikely to directly regulate the 35S-5xGAL4:LUC reporter gene because of the absence of a GAL4 DNA-binding domain, it is likely that AtMYBL2 suppressed the activity of the 35S-5xGAL4:LUC reporter gene by transrepression via interaction with TT8. Such suppression was not observed when 35S:AtMYBL2ΔC was co-expressed (Figure 6a). A protein–protein interaction assay revealed that AtMYBL2ΔC interacted with TT8 in yeast cells (Figure 6b). This observation suggests that restoration of repression of the reporter gene by co-expression of AtMYBL2ΔC and GAL4DB-TT8 was due to loss of the repressive activity of AtMYBL2 and not to the failure of proteins to interact (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the functional relationship of AtMYBL2 to TT8 and PAP1 in the regulation of the expression of DFR using the ProDFR:LUC reporter gene that contained the 520-bp upstream region of DFR (Figure 7a,b). This promoter region contains putative MYB- and bHLH-binding sites (CITATION). Results of the transient expression assay showed that co-expression of PAP1 (35S:PAP1) with the ProDFR:LUC reporter gene enhanced the activity of the reporter gene and this activation was drastically enhanced when 35S:PAP1-VP16, in which PAP1 was fused with the VP16 activation domain from Herpes simplex virus, was co-expressed with the reporter gene. Thus, it appeared that PAP1 had bound to the promoter of the DFR gene (Figure 7a). By contrast, the expression of AtMYBL2, of AtMYBL2ΔC and of AtMYBL2ΔC-VP16, respectively, did not affect the activity of the reporter gene, suggesting that AtMYBL2 is unlikely to interact with the promoter of the DFR gene (Figure 7a). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the involvement of AtMYBL2 in the regulation of the expression of DFR, we performed co-expression analysis using tt8 mutant plants to avoid the possible effects of endogenous TT8, which influences the expression of AtMYBL2. Expression of 35S:PAP1 enhanced the activity of the reporter gene in the tt8 mutant, and this activity was enhanced to a greater extent when 35S:TT8 was co-expressed with 35S:PAP1 (Figure 7b). This strong activity of the reporter gene, upon activation by PAP1 and TT8, was drastically reduced when 35S:AtMYBL2 was co-expressed (Figure 7b). However, this reduction was not observed when 35S:AtMYBL2ΔC was co-expressed, suggesting that AtMYBL2ΔC is unlikely to interfere with the interaction of PAP1 with TT8. These results suggest that AtMYBL2 might suppress the expression of DFR by transrepression, via interaction with TT8, because AtMYBL2 is unlikely to interact directly with the DFR promoter. We obtained similar results for regulation by the TT8 promoter. The ProTT8:LUC reporter gene was activated by co-expression with 35S:PAP1 and 35S:TT8 and this activation was diminished by co-expression of 35S:AtMYBL2 (Figure 7c). Our results indicated that a protein complex composed of PAP1, TT8 and AtMYBL2 might regulate, negatively, the expression of the TT8 gene in a manner similar to that found in the case of the DFR gene.
!~MM~! The protein-coding region of AtMYBL2 was amplified from a cDNA library using appropriate primers, as shown in Table S2, and cloned into the p35SSRDXG or p35SG vector (CITATION). p35S-VP16G was prepared by insertion of the activation domain of VP16 into the p35SG vector (CITATION). These plasmids were transferred into the pBCKH plant-expression vector (CITATION). The 2955-bp 5′-region upstream of the site of initiation of translation of the AtMYBL2 gene was used for preparation of ProAtMYBL2:AtMYBL2SRDX and ProAtMYBL2:GUS. ProTT8:GUS and ProDFR:GUS were constructed using 1519- and 1423-bp regions upstream of the site of initiation of translation of the TT8 and the DFR genes, respectively. For the transient expression assays, effector plasmids were prepared as described previously (CITATION). A 520-bp region upstream of the ATG codon of the DFR gene and a 992-bp region upstream of the ATG codon of the TT8 gene were used to generate the ProDFR: LUC and ProTT8:LUC reporter gene construct, respectively. For two-hybrid analysis, the bait plasmids BD-TT8, BD-AtMYBL2 and BD-AtMYBL2ΔC were constructed with the pBTM116 vector. Prey DNAs, AD-PAP1 and AD-TT8 were prepared using the pVP16S1vector. Details of transient expression assays in Arabidopsis leaves, after particle bombardment of Arabidopsis leaves, have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil under long-day conditions (16 h of light and 8 h of darkness daily) at 22°C. Transformation of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was performed as reported previously (CITATION). To promote the accumulation of anthocyanins, 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown on Murashige–Skoog (MS) agar-solidified medium with 0.5% sucrose (MS plates), were transferred to plates of MS medium that contained 6% sucrose and cultured for 5 days. Assays of β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity were performed with T2 transgenic plants. Anthocyanins were extracted from rosette leaves of 2-week-old plants by immersion in 45% methanol plus 5% acetic acid at 4°C for 16 h. The relative level of anthocyanin was calculated from the absorbance at 530 nm and 637 nm, as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was prepared from 2-week-old rosette leaves with an RNaeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/). Total RNA (3.3 μg) treated with DNaseI was subjected to first-strand cDNA synthesis. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed by the SYBR green method, as described previously (CITATION), using gene-specific primers (Table S2). Relative amounts of transcripts were calculated by an absolute-quantification method, with the UBQ1 gene as an internal control. At least three replicates were included in each experiment. Yeast two-hybrid analysis was performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain L40. Yeast cells were transformed by the LiAc/DNA/PEG method according to the Hybrid Hunter instruction manual from Invitrogen (http://www.invitrogen.com/). Co-transformed yeast cells were plated on dropout medium without tryptophan, histidine and leucine to test for histidine prototrophy and protein interactions. A filter-lift assay was used for detection of β-galactosidase activity in accordance with the protocol provided with the Hybrid Hunter system.
