!~ABS~! Proteins in CPL1 family are unique to plants and contain a phosphatase catalytic domain and double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-binding motifs (DRMs) in a single peptide. Though DRMs are important for the function of Arabidopsis CPL1 in vivo, the role of CPL1 DRM has been obscure. We have isolated two transcription factors, ANAC019 (At1g52890) and AtMYB3 (At1g22640), which specifically interact with the C-terminal region (640–967) of AtCPL1 containing two DRMs. Detailed interaction analysis indicated that AtMYB3 specifically interacted with the first DRM but not with the second DRM in CPL1 C-terminal fragment. GFP-fusion analysis indicated that AtMYB3 localized in nuclei-like CPL1, and its expression is induced by abiotic stress and ABA treatment. These results suggest that AtMYB3 function in abiotic stress signaling in concert with CPL1.
!~RES~! To identify proteins that interact with the defined C-terminal region (640–967) in AtCPL1, yeast two-hybrid screen was performed by using an AtCPL1 640–967 bait clone and an Arabidopsis cDNA prey library. Fifty unique clones were identified as CPL1-interacting proteins after secondary confirmation and sequencing analysis. Among these, eight clones including two transcription factors, ANAC019 (At1g52890) and AtMYB3 (At1g22640), are predicted to be nuclear proteins (CITATION ), and exhibited specific interactions with AtCPL1 640–967 in yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). ANAC019 has been previously characterized and is a NAC family transcription factor, which functions in the signal transduction pathway leading to the activation of erd1 promoter in response to drought and high salinity, and ANAC019 itself is induced by dehydration, salt and ABA CITATION, however, AtMYB3 has not been characterized. Therefore, in this study, we focused on characterizing AtMYB3. AtCPL1640–967 contains two DRM sequences. DRMs are known to function as dsRNA-binding domain and/or protein–protein interaction domain CITATION. In order to determine the AtCPL1 region that interacts with MYB3, yeast two-hybrid assay was performed using four truncated CPL1 variants as baits (CITATION A). The constructs were cotransformed into yeast with AtMYB3. The CPL1-MYB3 interaction was observed in the absence of NLS and the second DRM, suggesting the first DRM (727–790) was sufficient for their interaction (CITATIONB). In contrast, for ANAC019 and six other clones isolated from two-hybrid screening were used as preys, both of two DRMs were required for their interactions (CITATION). It demonstrated that DRMs could mediate the specific interaction between AtCPL1 and transcription factors, and the mode of CPL1-AtMYB3 interaction is distinct from other proteins isolated in the screening. To identify the region of AtMYB3 responsible for the interaction with AtCPL1, bait clones encoding five truncation mutants deleting its C-terminal regions around the LNL[E/D]L motif were prepared (CITATION A). The LNL[E/D]L motif in the C-terminal regions is well conserved in AtMYB3, AtMYB4, AtMYB7, and AtMYB32 proteins, which form a subgroup of R2R3-type MYB family, and is essential for the repressor function of AtMYB4 CITATION. As shown in CITATIONB, the LNL[E/D]L motif was essential for interaction with the C-terminal region of AtCPL1. Interestingly, MYB proteins containing the LNL[E/D]L motif, such as AtMYB4 and AtMYB32, but not AtMYB8 without the motif, showed the same interaction as AtMYB3 did in CITATIONB (CITATIONC and data not shown). These results suggested that the LNL[E/D]L motif in AtMYB proteins function as interaction interface for their partner proteins like AtCPL1. AtCPL1 is targeted to nuclei via a nuclear localization signal in its C-terminal region (640–967) CITATION. In order to confirm the nuclear location of AtMYB3 with previously characterized ANAC019, a chimeric GFP-AtMYB3 gene was prepared along with the GFP-AtCPL1 and GFP-ANAC019 genes. A free GFP and NLSSV40-DsRed was used as cytosolic and nuclear reference controls. These genes were introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts using polyethylene glycol transformation method, and the fluorescence of the gene products were observed by fluorescence microscopy. As shown in CITATION , a free GFP was distributed uniformly in the cytoplasm, whereas the fusion constructs of GFP-ANAC019 and GFP-AtMYB3 were targeted to nucleus, as the GFP-AtCPL1 did. This results support the function of AtMYB3 as a transcriptional factor. Since AtMYB3 specifically interacted with AtCPL1, the regulator of gene expression under abiotic stress, expression of AtMYB3 under salt stress and ABA treatment was analyzed using Northern blot. AtMYB3 gene was highly expressed by salt and ABA treatment, as shown in CITATION A. The level of AtMYB3 expression was quantified by RT-qPCR. Dose-dependent increase of AtMYB3 transcript level was observed with NaCl treatment, but not with ABA treatment (CITATIONB). Time course analysis of AtMYB3 expression under NaCl and ABA treatment revealed relatively slow expression kinetics. The expression reached at the maximal level at 3h after salt and ABA treatment (CITATIONC). This confirms that AtMYB3 is involved in plant abiotic stress and ABA responses. In short, we identified several AtCPL1-interacting proteins, such as ANAC019 and AtMYB3, using yeast two-hybrid assay. The stress- and ABA-inducible expression of AtMYB3 implied that AtMYB3 is involved in plant stress response together with AtCPL1. The relatively slow kinetics of AtMYB3 indicates that AtMYB3 may function in secondary response rather than initial activation of stress-responsive genes, because the expression level of such activators increases rapidly during the early phase of abiotic stresses, reach at the maximal level within an hour CITATION. AtMYB3 is homologous to AtMYB4, which is a repressor of lignin biosynthesis gene expression, and LNL[E/D]L that is essential for CPL1-MYB3/4/32 interactions are also essential for the repressor function of AtMYB4 CITATION. This implies that the CPL1 is recruited to target promoters that are repressed by AtMYB3 and its homologs. Since the entire regulon for CPL1 is not known, further study is necessary to determine whether all CPL1-regulated genes require MYB3/4/32 for its regulation, or multiple mode of regulation exist for CPL1 pathway.
!~MM~! Materials. Arabidopsis plants for protoplast preparation were grown on the medium (pH 5.6) containing 1/2× Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts 1.5% sucrose in a controlled growth chamber (22°C, 70% humidity and illumination of 100μmolm–2 s–1 white light) with 16h light and 8h dark. pENSOTG GFP-fusion vector has been prepared previously CITATION, and pUCNLSDsRed was provided by Hwang CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid screen. Yeast two-hybrid screen was performed according to Yeast Protocols Handbook (Clontech). The Arabidopsis cDNA library (Walker Two-hybrid cDNA library) was obtained from Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, and the cDNA fragments were ligated into pACT at XhoI sites, resulting in pACT/cDNA library as a prey. The cDNA fragment encoding AtCPL1 640-967 was amplified by polymerase chain reaction using Arabidopsis CPL1 cDNA as the template and then ligated into the pBUTE plasmid, a modification of the pGBDU-C1 vector CITATION, resulting in pBUTE/AtCPL1(640–967) as a bait. Subsequently, the Arabidopsis cDNA library was transformed into the yeast strain PJ69-4A including the pBUTE/AtCPL1(640–967), and was screened via auxotrophic selection on Leu/Ura/His drop-out media containing 5mM of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) eliminating the leaky expression of HIS3 reporter gene. Positive clones were detected by growth on the selection media and confirmed by β-galactosidase assay. From positive clones, prey plasmids were isolated by antibiotic selection, and then, the inserts were confirmed by sequencing. To validate positive interactions, the purified plasmids were cotransformed into the yeast strain, together with pBUTE/AtCPL1(640–967), and analyzed by prototrophy and β-galactosidase assays. Isolation of total RNA, RT-PCR and RNA gel blot analysis. Total RNAs were isolated from 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants by using TRI-Reagent (Molecular Research Center) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, and 2μg of total RNA were used for RT-PCR analysis. cDNA was constructed by using M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) and an oligo(dT18) primer, and amplification was performed with cDNAs and specific primer pairs for 25 cycles (denaturation; 95°C for 20s, annealing; 50°C for 30s, and synthesis; 72°C for 30s). For reproducibility, RT-PCR analysis was carried out at least three times. For RNA gel blot analysis, 20μg of total RNA were fractionated by electrophoresis on a 1.2% formaldehyde–agarose gel and transferred onto a nylon membrane, and radiolabeled probes were prepared by using a random labeling kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Promega). After hybridization, the membranes were washed with 2× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15M NaCl and 0.015M sodium citrate), 0.1% SDS at room temperature for 20min, and then, with 0.1× SSC and 0.1% SDS at 60°C for 30min. Finally, the membrane was exposed to an X-ray film. Transient expression of GFP-fusion proteins. ANAC019 and AtMYB3 inserts for the GFP-fusion constructs were prepared by PCR, and the PCR products were cloned into the vector pENSOTG. The resulting constructs (20μg) were introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation as described, previously CITATION. Transformed protoplasts were incubated at 22 °C in the dark. Expression of the fusion proteins were observed 2 and 3 days after transformation with an Olympus AX-70 fluorescence microscope, and the images were captured with a cooled charge-coupled device camera (Olympus DP-70).
