!~ABS~! The lipophilic biopolyester suberin forms important boundaries to protect the plant from its surrounding environment or to separate different tissues within the plant. In roots, suberin can be found in the cell walls of the endodermis and the hypodermis or periderm. Apoplastic barriers composed of suberin accomplish the challenge to restrict water and nutrient loss and prevent the invasion of pathogens. Despite the physiological importance of suberin and the knowledge of the suberin composition of many plants, very little is known about its biosynthesis and the genes involved. Here, a detailed analysis of the Arabidopsis aliphatic suberin in roots at different developmental stages is presented. This study demonstrates some variability in suberin amount and composition along the root axis and indicates the importance of ω-hydroxylation for suberin biosynthesis. Using reverse genetics, the cytochrome P450 fatty acid ω-hydroxylase CYP86A1 (At5g58860) has been identified as a key enzyme for aliphatic root suberin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. The corresponding horst mutants show a substantial reduction in ω-hydroxyacids with a chain length <C20, demonstrating that CYP86A1 functions as a hydroxylase of root suberized tissue. Detailed expression studies revealed a strong root specificity and a localized expression in the root endodermis. Transgenic expression of CYP86A1 fused to GFP distributed CYP86A1 to the endoplasmic reticulum, indicating that suberin monomer biosynthesis takes place in this sub-cellular compartment before intermediates are exported in the apoplast.
!~RES~! To gain more insights into the biochemical reactions involved in the formation of aliphatic root suberin, suberin compositional changes in the course of root development were studied in more detail. Roots of 5-week-old, fully developed Arabidopsis plants were dissected in three zones along the root axis for histochemical and chemical analysis (CITATION). The basal zone ranged from the root base 15 mm towards the tip. The middle zone contained the tissue of the next consecutive 25 mm and the apical root zone is represented by the remaining distal tissue including the root tip. Representative cross-sections were microscopically examined and histochemically analysed using Sudan 7B, a lipophilic dye commonly used to stain suberin depositions. The basal root zone is mainly represented by roots in a secondary developmental stage, characterized by suberin depositions in the cell walls of the outermost peridermal cell layer (CITATION). Similar suberized periderms were observed in cross-sections from the middle root zone (CITATION). The apical root zone was dominated by roots in a primary developmental stage characterized by the presence of an endodermis with apoplastic suberin depositions (CITATION). Tissue distribution and suberin composition in different developmental stages of the Arabidopsis root. (A) Arabidopsis root sectioned in the three zones investigated. The positions of the cross-sections from B, C, and D are indicated by dashed lines. (B–D) Bright field microscopic picture of representative cross-sections of the Arabidopsis root stained with the lipophilic dye Sudan 7B. The red-stained suberin is deposited in the periderm of the roots in a secondary developmental stage (B, C) or in the endodermal cell walls of the roots in a primary developmental stage (D). (E–I) Aliphatic suberin composition and amount in the different developmental stages of the Arabidopsis root. (E–G) Suberin monomer composition in μg mg−1 dry weight in the basal (E), middle (F), and apical (G) root zone. (H) Substance class distribution in the three root zones in relative amounts. (I) Total aliphatic suberin amount in μg mg−1 dry weight in the three root zones. Values 1-Alc., 1-Alcohols; ω-OH-Ac., ω-hydroxyacids; α,ω-Diac., α,ω-diacids; 2OH-Ac., 2-hydroxyacid are given as mean ±SD of three replicates, each containing 2–8 mg isolated suberized root cell wall material. P, Periderm; E, endodermis; C, cortex. To analyse the quantity and composition of the aliphatic root suberin, root tissue of the different root zones was subjected to depolymerization and subsequently analysed using GC and GC-MS. The same monomers were detected in the suberin hydrolysate of all three root zones: unsubstituted fatty acids ranging in chain length from C18 to C24, primary alcohols (C18–C22), ω-hydroxyacids (C16–C24), α,ω-diacids (C16–C24), and 2-hydroxyacids (C20–C26) (CITATION). The most prominent substance classes in all root zones are ω-hydroxyacids (37–52%) and α,ω-diacids (28–31%) (CITATION). Along the root axis all aliphatic suberin monomers increase from the tip to the base. The total aliphatic suberin amount in the basal root part is more than twice the amount in the apical part (CITATION). In the substance class composition, the relative amounts of α,ω-diacids and alcohols did not change. However, significant changes in the relative amounts of ω-hydroxyacids and fatty acids were detected among the different root zones. Comparing the apical and the basal root zones, the relative amount of ω-hydroxyacids increased >40% in the basal zone. By contrast the relative amount of fatty acids is significantly reduced in this zone; 12% compared with 21% in the apical zone. A reduction from the tip to the base was also observed in the minor compounds of the 2-hydroxyacid class. The abundance of ω-hydroxyacids and α,ω-diacids in aliphatic root suberin in Arabidopsis and the significant increase in ω-hydroxyacids as suberin formation goes on during root development indicates that ω-hydroxylases are required for suberin monomer biosynthesis. Of the known fatty acid ω-hydroxylases, CYP86A1 is preferentially expressed in roots. Therefore CYP86A1 seemed to be a good candidate for an involvement in suberin biosynthesis. To investigate the in vivo function of CYP86A1, a reverse genetics approach was chosen. Two allelic T-DNA insertion mutant lines in CYP86A1 were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre and further characterized. Since it was supposed that CYP86A1 encodes a ω-hydroxylase in suberin formation the mutant lines were named horst-1 (SALK_107454) and horst-2 (SALK_104083) for hydroxylase of root suberized tissue. PCR amplification of T-DNA flanking genomic sequences showed that horst-1 carries the T-DNA insertion in the first exon of CYP86A1, whereas in horst-2 the T-DNA insertion is located in the second exon (CITATION). The T3 progeny of the SALK insertion lines were genotyped using PCR, and homozygous T4 horst-1 and horst-2 plants were used to determine the CYP86A1 transcript levels by semi-quantitative RT-PCR (CITATION). In contrast to wild type, no CYP86A1 transcript could be detected in total RNA from horst-1 and horst-2 seedlings. No obvious phenotypes could be observed when horst-1 and horst-2 mutant lines were grown together and compared with wild-type plants. CYP86A1 locus and mutant verification. (A) Structure of the CYP86A1 gene and designated locations of the horst alleles. (B) RT-PCR analysis of CYP86A1 expression in 10-d-old seedlings of wild-type, horst-1, horst-2, and horst1-CYP86A1 complemented plants. To investigate a potential involvement of CYP86A1 in suberin biosynthesis, a qualitative and quantitative root suberin analysis of horst mutants was performed by GC and GC-MS and compared with the corresponding wild type. horst-1 and horst-2 aliphatic suberin exhibited significant reductions in the amount of specific monomers of all compound classes except alcohols (CITATION). The most pronounced reductions were detected in ω-hydroxyacids of chain length C16 and C18 and α,ω-diacids with chain length C16–C20 (CITATION). However, significant reductions could also be detected in C22 and C24 fatty acids and significant but less pronounced reductions can be detected in 2-hydroxyacids of horst-1 and horst-2 suberin. In total, horst-1 and horst-2 aliphatic root suberin amount is reduced by 60.86% (±7.96) and 63.4% (±10.61), respectively, compared with the wild type (CITATION). Aliphatic suberin composition in wild type and horst mutant plants. (A) Suberin monomer composition. (B) Total amount of each substance class and total aliphatic suberin amount. Suberin analysis of 5-week-old plants in μg mg−1 dry weight ±SD of four or five replicates, each containing one or two roots. Statistically significant changes are indicated at ≥99%. To verify that the suberin phenotypes determined in horst mutant lines are attributed to the knockout of CYP86A1, horst-1 plants were transformed with a wild-type genomic fragment comprising the 1.4 kb 5′ region upstream of the predicted CYP86A1 start codon and the CYP86A1 encoding genomic sequence. RT-PCR analysis on total RNA from hygromycin-resistant seedlings (horst-1-CYP86A1) confirmed the successful reintegration and expression of wild-type CYP86A1. Wild-type levels of CYP86A1 intron-excised transcript were detected in horst-1-CYP86A1 transgenic plants (CITATION). Root suberin analysis of the complemented CYP86A1-transformed horst-1 plants revealed a quantitative and qualitative aliphatic suberin composition similar to the wild type (CITATION). Since ω-hydroxyacids and α,ω-diacids, the most strongly affected compounds in the horst mutant suberin, are also abundant monomers in the biopolyesters of leaves and seeds, these tissues were also analysed for compositional changes in their long-chain aliphatic compounds. No significant differences could be detected in the leaf and seed polyester composition of the wild-type and horst-1 mutant plants (CITATION). Other significantly reduced monomers in horst suberin are unsubstituted fatty acids. However, the amount of long-chain fatty acids as part of leaf waxes and other fatty acid-derived wax monomers is not modified in horst-1 mutant plants (CITATION). Cutin, seed coat, and wax analysis in wild type and horst mutant plants. (A) Leaf cutin substance class composition and total amount in μg cm−2 ±SD of three replicates, each containing 15–20 leaves. (B) Seed coat substance class composition and total amount in μg mg−1 dry weight ±SD of five replicates, each containing at least 16 μg seeds. (C) Leaf wax substance class composition and total amount in μg cm−2 ±SD of five replicates, each containing seven leaves. To investigate the expression pattern of CYP86A1 in more detail on the organ and tissue level, experiments using RT-PCR and GUS reporter gene constructs were performed. RT-PCR analysis on total RNA preparations from different organs resulted in no detectable CYP86A1 transcript levels in above-ground organs such as leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques (CITATION). In roots, high expression levels for CYP86A1 were detected in all three root zones from the tip to the base. Organ-specific expression pattern of CYP86A1. Expression determined by RT-PCR of CYP86A1 transcript levels in three different root zones, leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques of 5-week-old fully developed Arabidopsis plants. In each reaction, 0.2 μg of total RNA was used. ACTIN was used as a control. For expression analysis of CYP86A1 on the tissue level the 1.4 kb putative promoter region upstream of the predicted CYP86A1 start codon was fused in frame to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene and used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis. Several independent PromCYP86A1:GUS transgenic plant lines were investigated. GUS staining was observed in the root of all PromCYP86A1:GUS seedlings, while GUS activity was not found in the hypocotyl or cotyledons (CITATION). Microscopic examination of the intact seedling roots showed GUS staining in the centre of the root, inside cortical tissue (CITATION). In cross-sections of GUS-stained PromCYP86A1:GUS roots, GUS protein activity could be located to the endodermis (CITATION). Similar to seedlings, no GUS staining could be observed under these conditions in above-ground organs like leaves or stems of mature plants. Tissue expression pattern and sub-cellular protein localization. (A–C) GUS staining in Arabidopsis transformed with a PromCYP86A1:GUS construct: (A) in a 7-d-old seedling GUS staining is only observed in the root; (B) close-up view of the intact seedling root with a GUS staining limited to the centre of the root; (C) cross-section through the seedling root showing GUS staining restricted to the endodermis. (D–H) Confocal microscope pictures of transiently expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP) and red fluorescent protein (DsRED) tagged peptides in epidermis of tobacco (N. benthamiana) leaves: (D) projection of serial confocal optical sections through an epidermis cell expressing a CYP86A1:GFP fusion protein, showing reticulate ER-like structures (brightness indicates GFP fluorescence); (E) close-up view showing the vitality of the cell by movement of the ER-like structures over the time indicated by an arrow (also see Video S1 in Supplementary material available at JXB online); (F–H) co-localization of CYP86A1:GFP (green, F) and HDEL:DsRed (red, G) in ER network, shown in the merged image (yellow, H). CC, Central cylinder; E, endodermis; C, cortex. In order to examine the sub-cellular protein localization of CYP86A1, the green-fluorescent-protein (GFP) was fused to the 3′ end of the coding sequence of CYP86A1. Employment of the native promoter to drive the expression of this construct in transgenic Arabidopsis plants resulted in a weak GFP fluorescence in roots, only slightly above background (data not shown). The weak fluorescence signal did not allow the GFP localization inside the root tissue with a resolution high enough for sub-cellular localization in endodermal tissue. Therefore, we focused on heterologous expression and transiently expressed this construct (CYP86A1:GFP) under the control of the CaMV35S-promoter (35S) in the epidermis of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Using confocal laser scanning microscopy, intense GFP fluorescence was observed in reticulate structures characteristic for ER (CITATION). Continuous observation of the GFP-tagged CYP86A1 revealed the movement of these membranous structures, typical of ER in vital cells (CITATION; Video S1 in Supplementary material available at JXB online). Co-expression with an ER marker construct containing the HDEL retention signal for ER fused to DsRed (HDEL:DsRed) revealed it co-localized with CYP86A1:GFP (CITATION).
!~MM~! All plants used are in the Arabidopsis thaliana L. Heynh. ecotype Columbia background. Plants were either cultivated in Floradur potting mix (Floraguard, Germany), or on agar sucrose medium [1.5% (w/v) sucrose, 0.7% (w/v) agar agar] containing MS salts (CITATION) adjusted to pH 5.7 using KOH. When grown on agar sucrose medium, seeds where surface-sterilized by shaking for 15 min in sterilization-solution [50% (v/v) EtOH, 1% (v/v) NaHClO], rinsed three times with 100% EtOH, and dried. Plants were grown in a growth chamber at 22 °C with a photoperiod of 16 h/8 h light/dark cycle and 100 μE m−2 s−1 light intensity. The T-DNA insertion mutant lines SALK_107454 and SALK_104083 (CITATIONet al., 2003) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. For the genotype screening to isolate homozygous mutant alleles, the T-DNA left border primer LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) has been used together with the gene-specific primers 5′-AAGAACCAGCTCAAGGCCACC-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGCAAAAAGCCTAAACCGGGA-3′ (reverse) for line SALK_107454 and 5′-AACGAGTTTCTTGAGCCTCAAG-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACCAGGATTTCAAATACGTCG-3′ (reverse) for line SALK_104083. Homozygous T-DNA insertion mutants were verified by RT-PCR analysis (see below) of 10-d-old seedlings cultivated on MS-agar and examined for the presence or absence of a gene transcript of CYP86A1 (At5g58860). For cloning and generation of expression constructs, the Gateway® Cloning Technology (CITATIONet al., 2000) was used according to the manufacture's suggestions (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany). After PCR amplification of the desired fragment, the amplicon was cloned by homologous recombination using Gateway® BP Clonase™ II Enzyme Mix and the pDONR/Zeo entry vector (Invitrogen). The generated entry clones were recombined with selected binary destination vectors (pMDC) provided by CITATION. The correctness of all vectors was confirmed by sequencing. For cloning of the putative CYP86A1-promoter, the 1426 bp upstream region of At5g58860 was amplified from genomic DNA using the Gateway-compatible primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGTGTTGATTATGTTGATGATGCTGAG-3′ (forward; LS248) and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTGGTTTAGGCTTTTTGCTTTTGTTCTGT-3′ (reverse) and inserted in the pDONR/Zeo entry vector yielding plasmid p176. LR recombination of p176 with destination vector pMDC162 yielded the promoter reporter gene (β-glucoronidase; GUS) fusion PromCYP86A1:GUS for expression studies. Similarly, the coding sequence of At5g58860 was amplified from cDNA with the primer pair 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACAGAACAAAAGCAAAAAGCCTAAACC-3′ (forward) and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTGCAAGCACCTCACCACGAG-3′ (reverse; LS298) to generate the entry clone p161. The C-terminal fusion to GFP (CYP86A1:GFP) was obtained by recombination of p161 with destination vector pMCD84. The 3.4 kb genomic DNA fragment for complementation analysis was generated by PCR using primers LS248 and LS298 amplifying the promoter of At5g58860 together with the genomic sequence. After cloning in entry vector p166, the genomic fragment was inserted in pMDC99 for mutant complementation. Transgenic plants were generated by introduction of the plant expression constructs into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101) and subsequent floral dip transformation as described previously (CITATION). The RNA for organ-specific expression studies was extracted from 5-week-old soil-grown Arabidopsis plants using hot phenol according to CITATIONet al. (1988). For expression studies confirming the knock-out or complementation, the total RNA was isolated from 10-d-old seedlings with TRI-Reagent (Molecular Research Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA) according to the instructions of the manufacturer. The RT-PCR was performed using the SuperScript™ III One-Step RT-PCR System with Platinum® Taq DNA Polymerase (Invitrogen) with each reaction containing 200 ng RNA. ACTIN was used as a control. The primer sequences and predicted amplicon sizes were 5′-ACAGAACAAAAGCAAAAAGCCTAAACC-3′ (forward) and 5′-TGCAAGCACCTCACCACGAG-3′ (reverse) for CYP86A1 (1572 bp) and 5′-GTGATGATGCCCCGAGAGC-3′ (forward) and 5′-GACCCGCAAGATCAAGACGA-3′ (reverse) for ACTIN (At5g09810) (480 bp). RT-PCR conditions were 30 min at 50 °C followed by 25–40 cycles of 30 s at 94 °C, 30 s at 57 °C and 90 s at 68 °C, and finally 5 min at 68 °C. Transgenic T1 and T2 plants containing the PromCYP86A1:GUS construct were selected on agar sucrose medium containing hygromycin (50 μg ml−1). Hygromycin-resistant seedlings were either transferred to Floradur potting mix (Floraguard) and grown to maturity, or directly stained. All samples were stained according to CITATION with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide (X-Gluc) (1 mM) in staining buffer solution [10−1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 10−2 M EDTA, 0.5 mM FeK3(CN)6, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] at 37 °C for 2–18 h. To stop staining and remove chlorophyll in above-ground organs, samples were transferred to 70% ethanol with two or three changes. Specimens were examined using an Olympus SZ61 binocular (Olympus, Japan) or fixed for light microscopy. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 containing the CYP86A1:GFP construct under the control of the CaMV35S-promoter (35S) were grown in 2 ml LB medium containing the appropriate antibiotics. Following overnight growth at 28 °C, bacteria were pelleted from 500 μl culture by centrifugation and resuspended in 2 ml infiltration medium (20 mM citric acid, 2% sucrose, 200 μM Acetosyringon; adjusted to pH 5.2) according to CITATIONet al. (2006) with minor modifications. Bacteria were resuspended in this medium. Cultures were incubated at room temperature for 3 h before infiltration. Bacterial suspensions were infiltrated into young but fully expanded leaves of 6- to 8-week-old N. benthamiana plants using a needle-less syringe. After infiltration, plants were placed at 20 °C with a photoperiod of 16 h/8 h light/dark. After 40–48 h, GFP fluorescence was monitored by confocal laser scanning microscopy. As a positive control for co-localization studies, a similar 35S-driven fusion construct, HDEL:DsRED, possesing the ER resident protein retention signal HDEL (CITATIONet al., 1997) fused to the Discosoma sp. red fluorescing protein (DsRed; CITATIONet al., 2001) was co-infiltrated in N. benthamiana leaves. Transfected N. benthamiana leaves were examined with an Olympus FV 1000 confocal microscope (Olympus, Germany) using a ×63 water-immersion objective. GFP fluorescence was imaged using excitation with the 488 nm line of an argon/krypton laser and a 530 nm band pass emission filter. Serial confocal optical sections were taken at different step sizes. Projections of serial confocal sections were done using Olympus FV100 software. Whole root bundles or root parts were washed with water and fixed in a mixture of formaldehyde (3.7%; v/v) in phosphate buffer saline (10−2 M NaPO4, 0.137 M NaCl, 27×10−4 M KCl, adjusted to pH 7.4) for at least 24 h. The specimens were embedded in frozen section medium (Neg-50; Richard-Allan Scientific, USA) and frozen at –25 °C. Sections (20 μm thick) were prepared using a cryo microtome (Cryostat H 500). Sections were transferred to microscope slides, embedded in glycerol:water (1:1; v/v) and examined with an Axioplan microscope (Zeiss, Germany) with bright field illumination. Sudan staining was performed according to CITATIONet al. (1991) with Sudan red 7B (0.1%; w/v) in 50% (v/v) PEG-400, 45% (v/v) glycerol, 5% (v/v) H2O at room temperature for 1 h. After staining, sections were rinsed with 1% SDS, washed thoroughly with water and mounted in glycerol:water (1:1; v/v) before microscopic examination. As described previously (CITATIONet al., 2005) one to five roots of 5-week-old plants were carefully dug out from the potting mix, washed with water and incubated in polysaccharide hydrolases [1% v/v cellulase (Celluclast, Novo Nordisc, Denmark), 1% v/v pectinase (Trenolin, Germany), 10−3 M NaN3 in 10−2 M citric buffer pH 3] for 2 weeks with one exchange of enzyme solution. The remaining cell wall materials were washed with borate buffer (10−2 M, pH 9) and distilled water. Finally samples were copiously extracted with chloroform:methanol (1:1; v/v), dried, weighed, and used for depolymerization reaction. The samples were depolymerized by transesterification with 2 ml 1 M MeOH/HCl (Supelco, USA) for 2 h at 80 °C. After addition of 2 ml saturated NaCl/H2O and 10 μg dotriacontane as internal standard, aliphatic monomers were gradually extracted (three times with 1 ml) in hexane. The combined organic phase was evaporated in a steam of nitrogen to a volume of ∼100 μl before analysis using gas-liquid chromatography (GC) and mass spectrometry (MS). All samples were treated with bis-(N,N,-trimethylsilyl)-tri-fluoroacetamide (BSTFA; Macherey-Nagel, Germany) for 40 min at 70 °C to convert free hydroxyl and carboxyl groups into their corresponding trimethylsilyl (TMS) ethers and esters. Monomers were identified on the basis of their electron-impact MS spectra (70 eV, m/z 50–700) after capillary GC (DB-1, 30 m, 0.32 mm, 0.1 μm) on an Agilent 6890N gas chromatograph combined with an Agilent 5973N quadrupole mass-selective detector (Agilent Technologies, Germany). The depolymerization products were separated by on-column-injection at 50 °C, 2 min at 50 °C, 10 °C/min to 150 °C, 1 min at 150 °C, 3 °C/min to 310 °C, 15 min at 310 °C. Quantitative determination of the components was carried out with an identical GC system coupled with a flame ionization detector based on the internal standard. All analyses are presented as means ±standard deviation of three to five replicates. Leaf wax and leaf polyester analysis was basically performed as described by CITATIONet al. (2006). For wax extraction, 6–10 rosette leaves from 35-d-old plants were harvested, individually dipped in chloroform for 10 s and scanned to determine the leaf surface area using imaging software. The chloroform extract was spiked with 10 μg of tetracosan (Fluka, Germany) as internal standard and evaporated under a steam of nitrogen to a volume of ∼100 μl prior to GC and GC-MS analysis. Following BSTFA derivatization, wax extracts were separated by the GC system described above applying the following temperature gradient: on-column-injection at 50 °C, 2 min at 50 °C, 40 °C/min to 200 °C, 2 min at 200 °C, 3 °C/min to 310 °C, 30 min at 310 °C. Leaf polyesters were analysed from totally extracted, delipidated leaves. After collecting and scanning 15–20 rosette leaves from 5-week-old plants, leaves were completely extracted in chloroform:methanol (1:1; v/v). The solvent was changed five times within 2 weeks. Samples were dried and used for depolymerization reaction as outlined above (CITATIONet al., 2005). Adapted from the protocols of CITATIONet al. (2006) for seed coat polyester analysis, at least 15 μg of fully developed and dried seeds were crushed in liquid nitrogen using a mortar and pestle. The resulting powder was exhaustively extracted in chloroform:methanol (1:1; v/v) for 2 weeks with five changes of solvent. After drying, the residue was used for depolymerization reaction.
