!~ABS~! Rhomboid proteins comprise a class of serine proteases that are conserved in all kingdoms of organisms. They contain six or seven transmembrane helices and control a wide range of cellular functions and developmental processes by intramembrane proteolysis. This paper provides experimental evidence for the existence of rhomboid proteases in plant mitochondria and chloroplasts. Among 15 putative rhomboid-like proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana, we selected five predicted as mitochondrially targeted. For these proteins we performed the GFP transient assay, and identified two homologues, AtRBL11 (At5g25752) and AtRBL12 (At1g18600) to be targeted into plastids and mitochondria, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that AtRBL12 or AtRBL11 have only one clear orthologue in plant species with completely sequenced genomes. Complementation of the yeast lacking a functional copy of mitochondrial rhomboid with AtRBL12 indicates that this plant protease, in contrast to the human orthologue, does not recognize the yeast substrates, cytochrome c peroxidase (Ccp1) or dynamin-like GTPase (Mgm1). In agreement with this, we did not observe processing of Mgm1 when labeled precursor of this protein was incubated in vitro with Arabidopsis mitochondrial extract. Our results imply that plant mitochondrial rhomboids function in a specific manner and thus differ from their yeast and mammal counterparts.
!~RES~! The main goal of this paper was to identify catalytically active rhomboid-like proteases in plant mitochondria. Our strategy described in “Materials and methods” was based on two criteria. First, we searched for Physcomitrella patens, Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana and Populus trichocarpa rhomboid like proteins containing at least six TMDs as well as residues believed to be essential for catalysis. Using this criterion, we identified 13 rhomboid-like proteins in each plant species (Table 1). Second, subcellular localization of the selected plant RBLs was predicted using three organelle-targeting programs. We considered RBL as potentially mitochondrial when it was predicted by at least one algorithm. We found that eight of moss (e_gw1.84.66.1, estExt_fgenesh1_pg.C_120050, estExt_Genewise1.C_5090005, PpRBL10, PpRBL12, PpRBL14.1, PpRBL14.2, PpRBL15), three of rice (Os11g47840, OsRBL12, OsRBL14), five of Arabidopsis (AtRBL6, AtRBL11, AtRBL12, AtRBL14 and AtRBL15) and four of poplar (PtRBL10, PtRBL12, PtRBL14, PtRBL15) putative catalytically active rhomboid-like proteins may reside in mitochondria (Table 1). To avoid any ambiguity in nomenclature, we have termed rhomboid-like genes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Populus trichocarpa according to proposed names in literature (Kanaoka et al. CITATION; Garcia-Lorenzo et al. CITATION). In the case of Physcomitrella patens and Oryza sativa, we proposed a nomenclature based on their closest homologues in Arabidopsis (Fig. 1). We have not named the rice and moss RBLs which do not exhibit a clear orthological relationship with the Arabidopsis rhomboids. Searching for rice RBLs, we found that the gene at the locus Os3g44830 encodes three proteins differing in N-termini (Table 1) and all of them are most homologous to AtRBL15. Therefore, we named them OsRBL15a–OsRBL15c. [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]]  [[TABLE]] The topology of the phylogenetic tree shown in Fig. 1 clearly indicates that the plant catalytically active rhomboid-like proteins segregate into two groups. One of them contains AtRBL1 and AtRBL2, rhomboids experimentally localized to the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis cell and have been designated as members of the RHO subfamily (Kanaoka et al. CITATION). The second group includes plant rhomboid-like proteins along with all known mitochondrial members of the PARL subfamily: Pcp1 (yeast), PARL (human), Rhomboid-7 (D. melanogaster) and TgROM6, which was characterized as the closest Toxoplasma ghondii orthologue of the mitochondrial rhomboids (Dowse and Soldati CITATION). To verify the subcellular localization of the Arabidopsis rhomboid–like proteases predicted as mitochondrially targeted (AtRBL6, AtRBL11, AtRBL12, AtRBL14, and AtRBL15), we conducted the GFP transient expression assay. In this analysis we also included AtRBL13 because based on the phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 1) this protease is closely related to other plant RBLs predicted as mitochondrial. Two types of constructs were used in our experiments. In the first set of constructs, the GFP reporter was fused in frame to the C terminus of the full-length coding sequences (FL), while the second set of constructs contained GFP attached to sequences coding for N-terminal regions of proteins (N) (Table 2). These constructs were used for transfection of protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis mesophyll cells. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Based on the clustering of the phylogenetic analysis, it became evident that the AtRBL11, AtRBL12 are most closely related to the non-plant mitochondrial rhomboids (Fig. 1). Therefore, we started our experiments by looking for sub-cellular localization of these two enzymes. First, we found that FL-AtRBL11-GFP was localized in chloroplasts, as the green fluorescence co-localized with chlorophyll autofluorescence (Fig. 2a). Sometimes dotted signals were seen as located on chloroplast envelope, but they were never found in the cytosol. The chloroplast-targeting was consistent when N-AtRBL11-GFP was used. These results suggest that AtRBL11 is a chloroplast protein. [[FIGURE]]  Next, localization of AtRBL12 was examined. In our assay, however, we were unable to obtain transformants expressing FL-AtRBL12-GFP. Two possible reasons could be considered: one, inefficient expression of the GFP fused to FL-AtRBL12 or alternatively, that overexpression of the fusion protein was toxic, so that very little or no transformants were visible. In contrast, we obtained transformants using N-AtRBL12-GFP. These transformants contained GFP signals that were globular or rod-shaped, similar to those obtained by the control GFP fused to a presequence from ATPδ (δ subunit of mitochondrial ATPase) (Fig. 2b). A high-magnification image of protoplasts expressing N-AtRBL12 shows indeed the co-localization of the GFP with MitoTracker signals. However, we could not completely rule out possibility that RBL12 might be also targeted into other cellular compartments since we only used its N-terminal region. We also detected GFP signals when GFP fused to FL-AtRBL6 and FL-AtRBL14 was expressed in mesophyll protoplasts. However, the detected signals appear to correspond neither to chloroplast nor to mitochondria, and were not co-localized with chlorophyll autofluorescence or MitoTracker-orange signals (see Supplemental Fig. 2). Although they co-localized with some membrane structures such as the Golgi apparatus, the actual location of these GFP fusion proteins were undetermined in this study. Therefore, we considered that AtRBL6 and AtRBL14 were neither chloroplastic nor mitochondrial proteins. For AtRBL15 and AtRBL13, we were unable to obtain transformants regardless of using FL- or N-GFP fusions (data not shown). In summary, our transient assay allowed us to identify two Arabidopsis RBL proteins, AtRBL11 and AtRBL12, to be localized in chloroplasts and mitochondria, respectively. Given that AtRBL12 is the closest Arabidopsis homologue of Pcp1 (Fig. 1, protein sequence identity of 29%) and is localized in mitochondria, we wondered whether AtRBL12 might also share substrate specificity with the yeast mitochondrial rhomboid. To address this issue, we tested the ability of AtRBL12 to cleave the Pcp1 substrates, Mgm1 and Ccp1, in yeast cells lacking a functional copy of the yeast mitochondrial rhomboid. In the first approach, Δpcp1 cells were transformed with plasmids containing the full open reading frame of AtRBL12 (construct A in Fig. 3) or PCP1 sequence as a positive control. Then, mitochondrial fractions were isolated and subjected to western blot analysis using anti-Ccp1 serum. As shown in Fig. 6a, the band corresponding to the mature cytochrome c peroxidase (mCcp1) is visible in mitochondrial fractions isolated from the wild type and Δpcp1 cells transformed with the Pcp1-coding construct, but not from the Δpcp1 cells transformed with the construct containing the full open reading frame of AtRBL12 (Fig. 6a, construct A). [[FIGURE]]  At that time we assumed that lack of Ccp1 processing by AtRBL12 might be because of an inefficient transport of plant protease into yeast mitochondria or an improper sub-mitochondrial targeting. Therefore, we decided to replace the native signal peptide of AtRBL12 with putative mitochondrial targeting sequence of PCP1 (Fig. 3, construct B). Due to the lack of an antibody directed against the plant rhomboid, we tested mitochondrial targeting of a hybrid protein encoded by the construct B using two methods. Firstly, we performed an import into isolated yeast mitochondria of a radioactive-labeled hybrid protein B (Fig. 4a). A protein band smaller than the precursor and resistant to proteinase K digestion was detected after the import, suggesting that the hybrid protein B was targeted into mitochondria and that the import was accompanied by processing. No import was observed in the presence of valinomycin, supporting an expectation that the import of AtRBL12 involves the protein translocation system of the inner membrane. To further verify this finding, yeast mitochondria were isolated and separated into the soluble and membrane fractions using sodium carbonate procedure which discriminates between peripheral and integral membrane proteins. The purity of both fractions was monitored using antibodies directed against marker proteins (Fig. 4b). This experiment confirmed that the mature product of the hybrid B processing is an integral membrane protein (Fig. 4c). In the second approach, we fused the sequence coding for the hybrid protein B at its 3′-end to the GFP gene and the resulting construct F (Fig. 3) was used for yeast transformation. The fusion protein of expected size, ∼55 kD, was detected exclusively with the mitochondrial membrane fraction by the anti-GFP antibody (Fig. 4c). Taken together, these results demonstrate that the hybrid protein B is efficiently imported into mitochondria and it is totally located in the membrane fraction. [[FIGURE]]  Subsequently, Δpcp1 cells (both the haploid and diploid strain) were transformed with the construct B. Total protein extracts from the transformed cells and controls were subjected to western blot analysis using anti-Ccp1 serum as well as antibodies against Mgm1. It is known that the Pcp1 protease generates the short isoform of Mgm1 and the mature form of Ccp1, respectively. As expected, the large (L) and the short (S) isoforms of Mgm1 and the mature form of Ccp1 were observed in wild type cells and in the Δpcp1 cells transformed with the yeast mitochondrial rhomboid. However, plasmid-borne expression of the hybrid protein B did not rescue cleavage of either substrate and the observed patterns were the same as those in Δpcp1 (Fig. 5). Both, Ccp1 and Mgm1, were processed only to the intermediate forms. In the case of both substrates, we also observed additional bands, which were distinct in size from the isoforms described above (asterisks). The occurrence of additional bands in the Δpcp1 cells as products of nonspecific degradation of Mgm1 or Ccp1 has already been reported (Herlan et al. CITATION; Michaelis et al. CITATION; Tatsuta et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  The experiments described above imply that the plant mitochondrial rhomboid is not able to generate the mature form of either of the Pcp1 substrates in yeast cells. To identify regions responsible for apparently divergent functional properties of plant AtRBL12 and yeast Pcp1, several hybrids of Pcp1 and AtRBL12 were generated and expressed in Δpcp1 cells (Fig. 3). Replacement of three N-terminal TMDs of Pcp1 (construct C) or three C-terminal TMDs of Pcp1 (construct D) by the corresponding domains of AtRBL12 resulted in loss of the Pcp1 processing activity towards its native substrate, cytochrome c peroxidase (Fig. 6a). Moreover, the PCP1 gene in which only the fourth TMD containing the catalytic serine was replaced by the respective AtRBL12 sequence (construct E) did not display catalytic activity against Ccp1 (Fig. 6a). Using an anti-Pcp1 antibody, we confirmed that the hybrid protein E is integrated into the mitochondrial membrane fraction (Fig 4c). This hybrid protein migrates slower than native Pcp1 (Fig. 6b). We think this may be due to the difference in hydrophobicity between these two proteins, caused by the presence of four addition polar residues in the exchanged fourth domain. Below, the band corresponding to Pcp1 or the hybrid protein E we detected additional bands (asterisks), which as we assume, may result from degradation of these proteins. [[FIGURE]]  The above results suggest that the functional differences between AtRBL12 and Pcp1 appear to be at least caused by differences in their TM domains. In addition, it is possible, that other proteins not present in yeast cells are needed for activity of AtRBL12. To challenge this assumption, we decided to carry out in vitro processing of radio-labeled precursors of Mgm1 and Ccp1 using Arabidopsis mitochondrial extract (Fig. 7). To prove that the conditions used in the experiment do not prevent efficient Mgm1 and Ccp1 maturation, we used yeast mitochondrial extract as a positive control. As a negative control, mitochondrial extract generated from the Δpcp1 cells was also tested (Fig. 7a and b, right panel). Both Mgm1 and Ccp1 were processed by the yeast mitochondrial extract. In contrast, after in vitro processing, we did not receive the mature form of Mgm1 using Arabidopsis extract (Fig. 7a). Incubation of radio-labeled precursor of Ccp1 with plant extract resulted in a protein bands pattern different from the pattern observed with yeast extract, but a form in size of the mature Ccp1 was visible (Fig. 7b). Rather, different cleavage pattern suggests that the pathway connected with the appearance of a protein of mature Ccp1 size is not the same in plants and yeast. Moreover, a form similar in size to the mature Ccp1 was also present after processing with mitochondrial extract generated from the Δpcp1 cells. This result indicates that in the absence of the rhomboid protease, Ccp1 precursor is cleaved by unknown peptidase/s to the form with electrophoretic mobility of the mature Ccp1. In this context, interpretation of the proteolytic pattern obtained with Arabidopsis extract is difficult. Taken together, results obtained in vitro using plant mitochondrial extract, suggest that AtRBL12 does not recognize at least one yeast rhomboid substrate. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and Pisum sativum plants were grown in soil under short-day (8-h light/16-h dark) conditions at 23/21°C with a light intensity of 100 μmol m−2 s−1. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains BY4741 (MATα, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0), BY4742 (MATα, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, lys2Δ0, ura3Δ0) and BY4743 (MATa/MATα, his3Δ1/his3Δ1, leu2Δ0/leu2Δ0, met15Δ0/+, lys2Δ0/+, ura3Δ0/ura3Δ0) and the corresponding Δpcp1 knockout strains were obtained from EUROSCARF (http://web.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/mikro/euroscarf/, Winzeler et al. CITATION). Yeast strains were grown on complete YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% glucose) and YPG (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% glycerol) media or on minimal YNB medium (0.67% yeast nitrogen base, 2% glucose) supplemented with auxotrophic requirements (Kaiser et al. CITATION). S. cerevisiae cells were transformed with plasmids by a modified lithium acetate method using PLATE mixture (Kaiser et al. CITATION). Total yeast DNA was isolated according to the method of Rose et al. (CITATION). Total RNA from leaves was isolated from 21-day old seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany; http://www1.qiagen.com/). Total cDNA was synthesized using Termoscript reverse transcriptase and (dT)16 primer according to the manufacturer’s instruction (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA; http://www.invitrogen.com/). The AtRBLs sequences predicted at least by one algorithm to localize in mitochondria were cloned into the expression vector p35S-GFP (Sakamoto et al. CITATION). Two sets of constructs were made for each of the selected AtRBL. The first set contained full-length coding sequences (FL), while the second set of constructs contained DNA sequences corresponding to the putative target peptides and ten additional amino acids (N; Table 2). In the case of AtRBL13 and AtRBL15, for which transit peptide could not be established by TargetP (Table 2), DNA sequences encoded N-terminal regions preceding the first TMD were cloned. Full-length and N-terminal sequences of AtRBLs were amplified from cDNA using gene specific primers with SalI/NcoI or XhoI/NcoI (see Supplemental Table 1 for details) recognition sites added to the ends. Respective fragments were inserted in frame into the p35S-GFP vector. In the case of AtRBL15, we could not clone the full-length coding sequence because cloning sites from the vector polylinker were also present within AtRBL15 (Table 2). All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. All primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 1. For the yeast complementation analysis, we created constructs using two vectors: YEp352 (Fig. 6) and pRS316 (Fig. 5). In both vectors, inserts were cloned under control of the PCP1-Promoter and their structures are schematically presented in Fig. 3. Construct A contains the whole ORF of AtRBL12 (1–336 aa). Construct B has two versions. One of them used in the experiment shown in Fig. 6 contains the PCP1 signal sequence (1–88 aa) followed by the AtRBL12 sequence coding for transmembrane domains 1–6 (59–336 aa). The second version was used in the experiment illustrated in Fig. 5 and contains the PCP1 signal sequence (1–86 aa) followed by the AtRBL12 coding sequence lacking its own signal sequence (92–336 aa). Construct C contains the PCP1 signal sequence (1–88 aa) followed by the AtRBL12 sequence coding for transmembrane domains 1–3 (59–248 aa) and the PCP1 sequence coding for transmembrane domains 4–6 (244–346 aa). Construct D contains the PCP1 sequence coding for the signal sequence and transmembrane domains 1–3 (1–241 aa) and the AtRBL12 sequence for transmembrane domains 4–6 (242–336 aa). The PCP1 sequence for transmembrane domain 4 (242–272 aa) is replaced by the corresponding AtRBL12 sequence (242–276 aa) in construct E. Construct F contains the PCP1 signal sequence (1–88 aa) followed by the AtRBL12 sequence (59–328 aa) and the GFP gene. For in vitro import assay insert B (the second version) was cloned into a TOPOII vector under T7 promoter (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA) according to the manufacturer’s instruction. For in vitro processing experiments sequences of Ccp1/YKR066C and Mgm1/YOR211C were amplified from yeast genome with gene-specific primers, and subsequently cloned into TOPOII vector (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA). All constructs were verified by sequencing. All primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 1. A GFP transient assay was performed as described previously (Sakamoto et al. CITATION) except that protoplasts for transfection were prepared from mature leaves of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia. Protoplasts suspended in enzyme solution (0.1% cellulase Onozuka R10 (Yakult; http://www.yakult.co.jp/)), 0.05% pectolyase Y-23 (Kyowa Chemical Products, Japan; http://www.kyowachemical.co.jp), 400 mM mannitol, 10 mM CaCl2, 20 mM KCl, 5 mM EGTA, 20 mM MES, pH 5.7) were gently shaken for 1 h at room temperature. After being washed with Wash buffer (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM MES, pH 5.7), the isolated protoplasts were suspended with MaMg buffer (400 mM mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, 5 mM MES, pH 5.7). The isolated protoplasts were transformed with 10 μg of each of the plasmid and 100 μl of PEG solution (0.4 M mannitol, 1 M Ca(NO3)2, and 40% (w/v) polyethylene glycol 4000), followed by incubation on ice for 20 min. After being washed with Wash buffer, the protoplasts were suspended in MS medium containing 0.4 M mannitol. The suspended protoplasts were incubated overnight at 23°C with gentle agitation. To visualize mitochondria, protoplasts were treated briefly with 0.5 μM MitoTracker Orange in MS medium containing 0.4 M mannitol. The protoplasts were examined using a fluorescent microscope (Olympus BX51 equipped with DP-50 digital camera) with a B-excitation filter set (for GFP) and G-excitation filter set (for chlorophyll autofluorescence and MitoTracker).  Arabidopsis mitochondria were isolated from leaves of 8-week plants according to the procedure described previously by Urantowka et al. (CITATION). Yeast mitochondria were isolated from 100 ml of overnight culture of BY4742 strain according to Daum et al. (CITATION). Yeast protein extract was generated from 5 ml of overnight culture by alkaline lysis (Herlan et al. CITATION). Precursor proteins were synthesized by in vitro transcription and translation using the TNT-coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega; http://www.promega.com/) in the presence of [35S]methionine, according to the manufacturer’s instruction. Import assay into yeast mitochondria according to Daum et al. (CITATION). In vitro processing reactions were performed according to Whelan et al. (CITATION). To generate mitochondrial extracts, we used n-Dodecyl β-D-maltoside (DDM; 2 g/g). Subfractionation of mitochondrial proteins was performed using carbonate extraction procedure (Herlan et al. CITATION). Total protein extracted from yeast culture, as well as Arabidopsis mitochondrial extracts after in vitro processing or import were separated on SDS-PAGE (10% gel) according to Schagger and von Jagow (CITATION). For Western blotting, proteins were transferred on PVDF membrane (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA; http://www.bio-rad.com), and probed with anti-Ccp1 and anti-Mgm1 sera. Immunodetection was performed using the Enhanced Chemiluminescence Plus Detection System (ECL, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Little Chalfont, UK; http://www1.gelifesciences.com). After in vitro processing and import, separated proteins were visualized by autoradiography. The preliminary list of rhomboid-like proteins from Physcomitrella patens, Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana and Populus trichocarpa was made based on sequences reported by others (Kanaoka et al. CITATION; Garcia-Lorenzo et al. CITATION; Tripathy and Souwdhamini CITATION) and our own search of the NCBI BLAST server (for A. thaliana and O. sativa; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) and JGI database (for P. trichocarpa and P. patens; http://genome.jgi-psf.org) using the blastp algorithm (http://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/) with the sequences of non-plant rhomboids as queries. A sequence with an expectation value (E) of <0.05 was considered as a potential rhomboid-like protein. Subsequently, all selected plant sequences were evaluated on the basis of the presence of the rhomboid domain (Pfam accession number PF01694) using InterProScan (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/InterProScan/; Quevillon et al. CITATION) and Pfam (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/; Finn et al. CITATION) with the cutoff level set on 0.01. Transmembrane domains were predicted according to the TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/; Krogh et al. CITATION) and TMPred (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html; Hofmann and Stoffel CITATION) algorithms. Only proteins containing at least six transmembrane domains and amino acids essential for proteolytic activity, serine residue in the fourth TMD and histidine residue in the sixth TMD, were considered as active plant rhomboids-like proteins. For sequence alignments Vector NTI® Advance 9.1 program (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA) and for construction of phylogenic trees ClustalX v.1.83 (Jeanmougin et al. CITATION) and MEGA3.1 (Kumar et al. CITATION) were used. Subcellular localization was predicted with TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; Emanuelsson et al. CITATION), PREDOTAR (http://urgi.infobiogen.fr/predotar/; Small et al. CITATION) and iPSORT (http://hc.ims.utokyo.ac.jp/iPSORT/; Bannai et al. CITATION) algorithms.
