!~ABS~! The DEHYDRATION-RESPONSIVE ELEMENT BINDING PROTEIN2A (DREB2A) transcription factor controls water deficit–inducible gene expression and requires posttranslational modification for its activation. The activation mechanism is not well understood; however, the stability of this protein in the nucleus was recently found to be important for its activation. Here, we report the isolation of Arabidopsis thaliana DREB2A-INTERACTING PROTEIN1 (DRIP1) and DRIP2, C3HC4 RING domain–containing proteins that interact with the DREB2A protein in the nucleus. An in vitro ubiquitination assay showed that they function as E3 ubiquitin ligases and are capable of mediating DREB2A ubiquitination. Overexpression of DRIP1 in Arabidopsis delayed the expression of DREB2A-regulated drought-responsive genes. Drought-inducible gene expression was slightly enhanced in the single T-DNA mutants of drip1-1 and drip2-1. By contrast, significantly enhanced gene expression was revealed in the drip1 drip2 double mutant under dehydration stress. Collectively, these data imply that DRIP1 and DRIP2 function negatively in the response of plants to drought stress. Moreover, overexpression of full-length DREB2A protein was more stable in drip1-1 than in the wild-type background. These results suggest that DRIP1 and DRIP2 act as novel negative regulators in drought-responsive gene expression by targeting DREB2A to 26S proteasome proteolysis.
!~RES~! A yeast two-hybrid screen was performed to identify proteins that interact with DREB2A. The N-terminal region of DREB2A, between residues 1 and 205 (DREB2A 1-205), was fused to the yeast GAL4 DNA binding domain and used as a bait protein for screening against an Arabidopsis cDNA library fused to the yeast GAL4 activation domain (AD). Approximately 2.5 × 106 yeast transformants were screened on a synthetic defined (SD) medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His (SD/-T-L-H) plus 1.5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. Forty-two positive clones were obtained, and β-galactosidase activity was individually assessed for all of these clones (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Sequence determination from the clone exhibiting the strongest activity identified a C3HC4 RING domain–containing protein of unknown function. Considering the high reporter gene activity and DREB2A protein instability, we further examined this clone and confirmed its interaction with DREB2A. As shown in Figure 1A , even under several selective conditions (SD/-T-L-H + 20 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole or SD/-T-L-H-A [for adenine]), yeast cells transformed with the interacting clone and the bait plasmid could grow well. Conversely, the growth of other yeast cells was completely inhibited. The protein encoded by this gene was subsequently named DRIP1. A homolog of DRIP1 (At1g06770) in the Arabidopsis genome (At2g30580) was found to be closely related to DRIP1. Analysis with ClustalW revealed that At2g30580 shares 66% amino acid identity and 77% similarity with DRIP1. Consequently, this gene was designated DRIP2. Similar to DRIP1, the DRIP2 protein also contains a conserved N-terminal C3HC4-type RING domain of ∼60 amino acids. Both proteins contain a predicted nuclear localization signal (NLS) (Figure 1B). Moreover, orthologs of DRIP1 and DRIP2 were also found in the GenBank database from rice (Oryza sativa) and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). Multiple sequence alignment revealed that these proteins share a region of high conservation in their C termini; however, no characterized motif could be identified within these regions (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] We conducted additional yeast two-hybrid assays to localize the domain of DRIP1 that interacts with DREB2A. Based on the sequence alignment information, several DRIP1 fragments were generated and fused to the yeast GAL4-AD vector, and each construct was transformed into yeast cells containing the DREB2A bait fragment. The fragment excluding the RING and NLS domains strongly interacted with DREB2A and showed the highest β-galactosidase activity (Figure 1C). The fragment containing only the RING-NLS or lacking the C-terminal conserved region was not sufficient for mediating a protein–protein interaction (Figure 1C). Reporter gene expression of the bait cells transformed by full-length DRIP1 was lower than that of the N-terminal truncated DRIP1 fragment. These data were consistent with the fact that the clone isolated from screening was an N-terminal truncated cDNA and did not contain a full-length cDNA of DRIP1. To determine whether DRIP2 also interacts with DREB2A, full-length DRIP2 and two different N-terminal truncated fragments were constructed in the yeast GAL4-AD vector and tested in yeast two-hybrid assays. When these constructs were transformed into yeast cells containing either empty pGBKT7 or the DREB2A bait construct, all cells could grow on SD/-L-T plates. However, on the selective medium, SD/-L-T-H-A, only bait cells transformed with the construct containing the DRIP2 N-terminal truncated fragment lacking the RING domain and NLS could grow well; other transformants could not survive (Figure 1D). Similar to DRIP1, these results suggest that the protein C-terminal region of DRIP2 is sufficient for the protein–protein interaction with DREB2A. We further tested the interaction between the full-length DRIP1 protein and DREB2A with in vitro protein pull-down assays. Full-length DREB2A, the N-terminal region (amino acids 1 to 165, containing the DNA binding and NRD domains), and the C-terminal region (amino acids 166 to 335) were fused to the T7 tag in the pET28a vector. The three constructs were transformed into Escherichia coli, and the isopropylthio-β-galactoside–induced cell lysates were mixed with the DRIP1-GST (for glutathione S-transferase) fusion or GST protein and glutathione-Sepharose. After washing, the resultant glutathione-Sepharose was analyzed by anti-T7 immunoblotting. As a result, the full-length DREB2A-T7 and DREB2A 1-165-T7 proteins could be pulled down by DRIP1-GST, whereas DREB2A 166-335-T7 protein was barely retained by the bait DRIP1-GST protein (Figure 2A ). These in vitro data indicate that DRIP1 interacts with the N-terminal region of DREB2A containing the DNA binding domain and NRD. Apparently, the AD of DREB2A is not involved in the interaction with DRIP1. [[FIGURE]] As a first step to confirm an in vivo interaction of DRIP1 with DREB2A, we confirmed that DRIP1 was a nuclear protein. Microscopic observations of transgenic plants carrying the 35S:DRIP1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) construct confirmed its nuclear localization (Figure 2B). We then employed the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) system to study their interaction in plant cells (CITATION). Full-length DRIP1 cDNA was fused to the N-terminal region of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFPN1-155), and the DREB2A cDNA was fused to the C-terminal region of YFP (YFPC156-239). The two constructs were cobombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. In parallel, the empty vectors in combination with each fusion construct were also transformed into the cells. After an overnight incubation, YFP signals were observed with fluorescence microscopy. Samples cotransformed by pUCSPYNE-DRIP1 and pUCSPYCE-DREB2A yielded YFP fluorescence, whereas, all of the samples cotransformed by the empty vector with either pUCSPYNE-DRIP1 or pUCSPYCE-DREB2A failed to give any YFP signal (Figure 2C). These results indicate that DRIP1 and DREB2A colocalize and interact in plant cell nuclei. In vitro ubiquitination experiments were performed with DRIP1 protein to confirm its function as an E3 ligase. Purified DRIP1-GST fusion protein was mixed with myc-tagged ubiquitin (ubi-myc), rabbit E1, and human UBCH5c (E2). Immunoblot analysis with anti-myc showed that ubiquitinated proteins were detected in the presence of all these components (Figure 3A ). Furthermore, when DRIP1 autoubiquitination activity was assessed with anti-GST, two additional higher molecular weight protein bands appeared when the DRIP1-GST protein was mixed with ubiquitin, E1, and E2. According to their molecular weights, these additional bands appear to result from the attachment of one or two ubiquitin monomers (Figure 3B). These results suggest that DRIP1 protein could be autoubiquitinated in the presence of E1 and E2 enzymes. To verify whether the RING domain was essential for DRIP1 protein ubiquitination ability, we deleted the first 60 amino acids of DRIP1, thereby removing the RING domain, and purified this truncated protein as a GST fusion (DRIP1 del 1-60-GST). In the presence of ubiquitin, E1, and E2 enzymes, the mutated DRIP1 protein was incapable of autoubiquitination (Figure 3C). These data confirm that the RING domain is required to facilitate protein ubiquitination. [[FIGURE]] In order to determine whether DRIP1 could mediate DREB2A protein ubiquitination, the in vitro ubiquitination assay was conducted using DREB2A protein as a substrate. The DREB2A protein was fused with His and Trx tags, and the recombinant fusion protein was purified by the His tag affinity to a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose matrix. As shown in Figure 3D, in the presence of DRIP1, ubiquitin, E1, and E2, a higher molecular weight shifted band could be observed by anti-His immunoblot analysis. When any component of this assay was omitted from the mixture, only the original DREB2A-His-Trx protein band could be detected. According to the molecular weight, the shifted band corresponded to one additional ubiquitin monomer attached on the substrate. Similar results were obtained when a DRIP2-MBP fusion protein was used in the ubiquitination assays (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). A 2.5-kb promoter sequence of DRIP1 was cloned and constructed in front of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene to facilitate the study of DRIP1 tissue-specific expression patterns. DRIP1pro:GUS transgenic plants were generated, and DRIP1 gene expression was followed developmentally. Figure 4A shows the representative GUS staining observed in a majority of the transgenic lines. GUS activity was observed in cotyledon nodes in 10-d-old seedlings (Figure 4A-b). In 3-week-old plants, GUS expression was detected in cotyledons and weakly in rosette leaves (Figures 4A-c and 4A-d). In roots, DRIP1 promoter activity was clearly exhibited in root tips and elongation zones (Figure 4A-e). In flowers, GUS expression was observed in the anthers of opened flowers (Figure 4A-f). After pollination, DRIP1 promoter activity was also exhibited in the stigma (Figure 4-g). DRIP1 expression was barely detected in mature dry seeds (Figure 4A-a). We also investigated the tissue-specific gene expression of DRIP1 and DRIP2 by quantitative RT-PCR analysis and revealed similar patterns of gene expression for DRIP1 and DRIP2 (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). DRIP1 and DRIP2 expression was also monitored under various stress conditions. No clear induction was observed for either gene when the plants were subjected to 250 mM NaCl, dehydration, or abscisic acid treatment. An exception to this was the minor induction of DRIP2 under dehydration stress (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). In general, DRIP1 and DRIP2 appear to be expressed in plants in only a subset of tissues, but at similar levels regardless of stress conditions. [[FIGURE]] We previously reported that the DREB2A gene was induced by drought stress but also showed low levels of expression under normal growth conditions, in contrast with undetectable levels of expression of DREB1A (CITATION; CITATION). DREB2A transcripts could be clearly detected in plant roots and weakly in the leaves under nonstressed conditions (CITATION). We were interested to characterize DREB2A protein levels under normal conditions in plants. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants harboring a GFP-DREB2A construct driven by the DREB2A promoter (DREB2Apro:GFP-DREB2A) were generated in an attempt to determine DREB2A protein stability in cells. The DREB2A-GFP protein was not detected in either roots or leaves under normal growth conditions. However, when these plants were treated with a 26S proteasome inhibitor, MG132, clear GFP fluorescence was observed with the microscope in both roots and cotyledons (Figure 4B). A similar phenomenon was also observed when 35S:GFP-DREB2A transgenic plants were examined under similar conditions (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Although the DREB2A gene was expressed under normal growth conditions, the DREB2A protein is apparently unstable and may be degraded by the 26S proteasome. Transgenic plants overexpressing DRIP1 were generated using an enhanced 35S promoter (CITATION). The growth of all transgenic lines was similar to that of wild-type plants, without any remarkable phenotypic changes (data not shown). Two transgenic lines with a similar level of transgene expression were further characterized (35S:DRIP1-b and 35S:DRIP1-e) (Figure 5A ) and monitored for the expression of a set of stress-inducible marker genes. When subjected to dehydration stress, the expression of these stress marker genes in the transgenic plants was not obviously different from that in the wild type. However, upon a close comparison of gene expression under 2 and 5 h of dehydration stress between the transgenic and wild-type plants, the inductions of RD29B, At1g52690, and At2g41190, specific target genes of DREB2A (CITATION, CITATION), were delayed in the DRIP1 overexpressors relative to the wild type (Figure 5B). Under the same experimental conditions, maximum expression of these genes peaked earlier in the wild type than in the transgenics. Unlike specific target genes of DREB2A, it is interesting that the induction of genes targeted by both DREB1A and DREB2A, such as RD17 and RD29A, was not postponed. The expression level of these genes was also quantified by real-time PCR analysis; the data coincided with and supported the data obtained from RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 5C). This suggests that DRIP1 overexpression negatively affects DREB2A-regulated gene expression in an early dehydration stress response. [[FIGURE]] In order to further understand the physiological function of DRIP1 and DRIP2, we obtained T-DNA insertion mutants of drip1-1 and drip2-1 in the Columbia background. DRIP1 and DRIP2 gene expression was monitored in homozygous mutants with quantitative RT-PCR. DRIP1 expression was significantly reduced in the drip1-1 mutant, and DRIP2 expression was completely interrupted by T-DNA insertion in the drip2-1 mutant (Figure 6A ). However, both single mutants did not give an apparent morphological phenotype (Figure 6B). Considering the high homology of DRIP1 and DRIP2 and their similar expression profiles, we generated a drip1 drip2 double mutant. Further RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of both DRIP1 and DRIP2 genes in the double mutant was disrupted as in the single mutants (Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] Plant development and growth of the drip1 drip2 double mutant were significantly delayed and prolonged compared with those of the wild type (Columbia) and the two single mutants. After 10 d, wild-type seedlings developed two rosette leaves in addition to two cotyledons, while most of the double mutant plants only had two cotyledon leaves or were just starting to produce the first true leaves. Moreover, after 5 weeks, both the wild type and the two single mutants already bolted and developed ∼12- to 13-cm-long inflorescences. Conversely, most of the drip1 drip2 plants still remained in the rosette stage or had just started bolting (Figure 6B-b). A similar retardation in plant development was also observed in DREB2A-CA overexpressors (Figure 6B-b). In addition, flowering and seeding of drip1 drip2 were also delayed compared with the wild type. However, if watering was maintained, the overall plant size of double mutants eventually exceeded that of wild-type plants (data not shown). We investigated alterations in the transcriptome between the drip1 drip2 mutant and wild-type plants under both normal and 2-h dehydration conditions with Agilent 22k microarray analyses. A massive transcriptomic change was revealed in the drip1 drip2 mutant under both normal and stressed conditions. Especially in 2-h dehydrated drip1 drip2 plants, the expression of many stress-inducible genes was significantly enhanced compared with the wild type. For the unstressed plants, 317 genes were upregulated more than twofold (fold change absolute > 2.0) in the mutant. Under nonstressed conditions, several stress-inducible genes were enhanced in the drip1 drip2 plants. Among the 317 upregulated genes, 28, 11, 43, and 26 genes were previously identified to be cold-, dehydration-, high salinity–, and abscisic acid–inducible, respectively (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online; a complete microarray data set is available at ArrayExpress [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/] under accession number E-MEXP-1351). Thirty-four of the genes upregulated in drip1 drip2 were also found to be upregulated more than twofold in the DREB2A-CA overexpressor (CITATION). Also, 49 of the genes upregulated in drip1 drip2 contain DRE sequence(s) in their promoters. Among them, 12 genes were upregulated by DREB2A-CA. For the 2-h dehydrated plants, the expression of 369 genes was enhanced more than twofold in the double mutant relative to the wild type. Among the 369 upregulated genes, 121, 164, 202, and 125 genes were characterized to be cold-, dehydration-, high salinity–, and abscisic acid–inducible, respectively (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online; a complete microarray data set is available at ArrayExpress [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/] under accession number E-MEXP-1352). Sixty-seven of the genes upregulated in drip1 drip2 under stress were also upregulated more than twofold in the DREB2A-CA overexpressor. Also, 134 of the genes upregulated in drip1 drip2 under stress contain DRE sequence(s) in the promoters (CITATION). Among them, 43 genes were upregulated by DREB2A-CA. These data indicate that DRIP1 and DRIP2 negatively function in DREB2A-regulated drought-inducible gene expression, especially under dehydration stress. In order to verify the microarray results and to have a closer view of how DREB2A-regulated genes were affected in drip1 drip2, we investigated the expression of some stress-inducible genes by RNA gel blot analysis in wild-type, drip1-1, drip2-1, and drip1 drip2 plants. Expression of DREB2A-regulated genes, such as RD29B, At1g52690, At2g41190, and At4g33720, was significantly enhanced in the 2-h dehydrated double mutant compared with the wild type (Figure 6C) (CITATION). Prior analysis of the DREB2A-CA overexpressors placed GolS1, GolS2, At3g02480, and At3g17520 in the DREB2A regulon (CITATION). Similarly, expression of these genes was elevated in the 2-h dehydrated drip1 drip2 plants (Figure 6C). Expression of some genes was slightly enhanced in the unstressed plants relative to the wild type. Even in the drip1-1 and drip2-1 single mutants, the expression of most genes was also increased in the 2-h dehydrated plants, although the elevated levels were not very high (Figure 6C). The expression of genes regulated by both DREB1A and DREB2A, such as RD29A, LEA14, and RD17, was also verified to be upregulated in the mutants, but only under 2 h of dehydration stress (Figure 6C). However, the expression of a DREB1A-specific target gene, At2g02100, was not altered in the mutants (Figure 6C) (CITATION). Consistent with microarray results, the expression of some drought-responsive genes was mildly enhanced under nonstressed conditions. Additionally, many drought-responsive genes, especially DREB2A-regulated genes, were significantly upregulated under dehydration stress in the drip1 drip2 mutant relative to the wild type. To confirm that the enhanced gene expression was caused by a disruption in the drip1 locus, we transformed the 35S:DRIP1 construct into the drip1-1 mutant as a means to complement the gene expression. From two independent complementation lines, none of the monitored stress-responsive genes exhibited higher expression relative to wild-type plants (Figure 6D). Recovery of DRIP1 gene function clearly complemented the mutant phenotype. DNA blot analysis suggested that the drip2-1 mutant was only a single-copy T-DNA insertional mutant (data not shown). Collectively, these data indicate that DRIP1 and DRIP2 function negatively and redundantly in drought-responsive gene expression, especially through affecting DREB2A-regulated gene expression. In order to evaluate the comparative drought stress tolerance of three mutants and the wild type, we first monitored leaf electrolyte leakage subsequent to drought stress. Aerial parts of 3-week-old seedlings were removed from agar plates and subjected to dehydration stress on an empty plate. After a 3-h dehydration treatment, >64% of ions leaked from cells in the wild type, whereas ion leakage of the drip1 drip2 double mutant was less than 32%. Although a slight reduction of ion leakage was also observed in the drip1-1 and drip2-1 single mutants, these data did not meet the significance criteria (Figure 6E). A clear reduction of ion leakage was also observed in the drip1 drip2 mutant after a 3.5-h exposure to dehydration stress (Figure 6E). Drought stress tolerance was also evaluated by the survival rate in soil after plants stopped receiving water. When data were analyzed from several independent tests, 37.5% of the wild-type plants survived the drought stress treatment, and 41.5% and 32.3% of drip1-1 and drip2-1 plants, respectively, recovered from the stress after rewatering. Although the difference between the wild type and the single mutants was not statistically significant, the survival rate of the drip1 drip2 double mutant was 65.4%, which is significantly higher than that of the wild-type plants (Figure 6F). We also monitored the plant water content under dehydration stress at different time points. The standardized water content in the drip1 drip2 double mutant in response to water stress was slightly higher than that of wild-type plants. It is possible that this difference in water content might contribute to the increased plant dehydration stress tolerance in the double mutants (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Since DREB2A is expressed at very low levels under nonstressed conditions, in order to understand DRIP1 function on DREB2A protein stability under normal conditions, we transformed the 35S:GFP-DREB2A construct into the drip1-1 mutant and obtained eight independent transgenic lines. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed a relatively high level of transgene expression in four lines (Figure 7A ). Interestingly, all four lines showed growth retardation and an overall dwarfed phenotype, resembling the DREB2A-CA overexpressor phenotype (Figure 7B). However, when the 35S:GFP-DREB2A construct was transformed into the wild-type Columbia plants, with a comparable level of transgene expression, normal growth was observed in transgenic plants (Figure 7B). Furthermore, stronger green fluorescent signals were observed in the roots of the 35S:GFP-DREB2A/drip1-1 plants relative to the 35S:GFP-DREB2A/Col plants. An anti-GFP immunoblot detection of GFP or GFP fusion proteins in 35S:GFP/Col, 35S:GFP-DREB2A/Col, and 35S:GFP-DREB2A/drip1-1 plants was performed. The predicted GFP-DREB2A molecular mass is ∼64.3 kD. With protein gel blot analysis, a protein band was detected in two independent 35S:GFP-DREB2A/drip1-1 transgenic lines (B and D) in the corresponding size range. However, no band was detected in 35S:GFP/Col or two 35S:GFP-DREB2A/Col transgenic lines, G and R (Figure 7C). The expression of two DREB2A-regulated genes (RD29A and RD29B) under normal conditions was compared in two separate lines from both 35S:GFP-DREB2A/drip1-1 and 35S:GFP-DREB2A/Col with quantitative RT-PCR analysis. As expected, even under nonstressed conditions, these genes were higher in the 35S:GFP-DREB2A/drip1-1 plants than in 35S:GFP-DREB2A/Col plants (Figure 7D). These results suggest that DRIP1 could mediate DREB2A protein degradation under nonstressed conditions and consequently may limit the amount of DREB2A to minimize its potential negative effects on plant growth. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia plants were grown on germination medium (GM) agar plates for 3 weeks, as described previously (CITATION). They were subsequently transferred into vermiculite and grown under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime. T-DNA insertion lines of drip1 (WiscDsLox437G06) and drip2 (SALK_145041) were obtained from the ABRC. DRIP1- and DRIP2-specific primers were designed according to http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html (see Supplemental Table 1 online). To generate 35S:DRIP1 and 35S:DRIP1-GFP constructs, DRIP1 coding sequence was inserted into pGKX and pGK-CsGFP vectors, respectively (see Supplemental Methods online), by a NotI site. The DRIP1 promoter was amplified from Columbia by the primer pair 5′-GGGGGATCCAGGAGATGACCTAGAGGAACC-3′ and 5′-GGGGGATCCCTTTCTCTTTATCTGTTGGGC-3′ using a high-fidelity PCR method. The generated fragment was constructed in front of the GUS gene by a BamHI site in the pGK-GUS vector (see Supplemental Methods online). The 35S:GFP-DREB2A plasmid was created by an insertion of DREB2A coding sequence into pGK-NsGFP (see Supplemental Methods online) by NotI-SacI sites. To prepare the DREB2Apro:GFP-DREB2A construct, the fragment of GFP-DREB2A-NosT was amplified from 35S:GFP-DREB2A with primers containing PstI-SalI linkers and constructed into pGK-GUS by these two sites. Then, the DREB2A promoter (CITATION) was inserted in front of the GFP-DREB2A-NosT fragment in a sense orientation by a PstI site. The constructed plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 cells. Plants were transformed as described previously (CITATION). An Arabidopsis cDNA library, which was prepared in the pGADT7 vector (MatchMaker GAL4 two-hybrid system 3; Clontech), was kindly donated by T. Umezawa (RIKEN Plant Functional Genomics Group). Yeast transformation was performed according to the supplier's instructions (Clontech). β-Galactosidase activity was determined in Y187 yeast report cells as described in the Yeast Protocols Handbook (Clontech). Total RNA was isolated with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) from 3-week-old plants. Procedures for RNA gel blot analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). One microgram of total RNA was used for cDNA synthesis with SuperScript III reverse transcriptase according to the supplier's instructions (Invitrogen). Real-time PCR analyses were performed using an Applied Biosystems 7500 real-time PCR system. The SYBR Premix Ex Taq kit (Takara) was used for the reactions according to the manufacturer's instructions. Arabidopsis 18S RNA amount was quantified as a loading control. All reactions were performed in duplicate or triplicate for technical repeats. For overexpression transgenic lines, at least two independent lines were analyzed for biological repeats. For T-DNA insertion lines, a representative result obtained from several independent samples was shown. The primers used for quantitative RT-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. To obtain the quantitative data, three replicates were performed for characterization of expression data from each gene. Recombinant GST fusion proteins were prepared as described previously (CITATION). The coding region for DRIP1 (or DRIP del 1-60) was inserted into the pGEX-4T-3 vector by a NotI site. DRIP1-GST protein used for ubiquitination assays was dialyzed at 4°C overnight in the following buffer: 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05 mM ZnCl2. The DRIP2 cDNA was inserted into the pMAL-c2x vector by a BamHI site. DRIP2-MBP fusion protein was purified according to the instruction book for the pMAL protein fusion and purification system (New England Biolabs) and dialyzed against the same buffer as DRIP1-GST protein. The full-length coding sequence of DREB2A was inserted into the pET48b vector (Novagen) between the SmaI and BamHI sites to generate an in-frame fusion to the N-terminal His and Trx tags. The plasmid was expressed in Rosetta (DE3) cells, and recombinant fusion proteins were purified by His tag affinity to nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose matrix according to the Qiagen instruction book. The ubiquitination assays were generally performed as described by CITATION. Approximately 500 ng of DRIP-GST fusion protein was mixed with 100 ng of rabbit E1 (Boston Biochemicals), 200 ng of human E2 UBCH5C (Biomol), and 5 μg of ubiquitin-myc (Boston Biochemicals)/ubiquitin (Sigma-Aldrich). The reactions were made in the buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 5 mM MgCl2, 2 mM ATP, 2 mM DTT, 10 mM phosphocreatine, and 1 unit of creatine kinase (Sigma-Aldrich). After incubating at 30°C for 2 h, the reaction was stopped with 2× SDS sampling buffer by boiling at 100°C for 5 min. Ten microliters of each reaction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using a corresponding antibody. To confirm that DRIP1 mediates DREB2A ubiquitination, DREB2A-His-Trx fusion protein was affinity-purified and ∼200 ng of purified protein was incubated together with the ubiquitination mixture for 2 h. The mixture was then subjected to 6% SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. For anti-GFP immunoblot analysis, the nuclear fraction was prepared according to the methods of CITATION with minor modifications. Eighteen micrograms of protein was loaded and blotted for immunodetection with a monoclonal anti-GFP primary antibody (Clontech). Full-length DREB2A, the DREB2A 1-165 fragment, or the DREB2A 166-335 fragment was inserted into pET-28a by an EcoRI site. Each construct was transformed into BL21 (DE3) Escherichia coli cells and grown in 50 mL of 2× YT broth until the OD600 reached 0.8. Cultures were then induced by adding 0.1 mM isopropylthio-β-galactoside and held at 16°C overnight. Harvested cells were lysed by adding 0.1 mg of lysozyme at 4°C for 1 h and were subsequently sonicated. After sonication, the disrupted cells were centrifuged and the supernatant was used as prey protein for pull-down assays. Forty microliters of supernatant was mixed with ∼1.2 μg of DRIP-GST or GST protein in the buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20, 0.5 mM DTT, and 0.8% glycerol) in a total volume of 100 μL at room temperature for 1 h. Thirty microliters of a 50% slurry of glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads was added into the mixture and rotated at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture was subsequently washed three times with 1 mL of binding buffer, and washed beads were boiled in 30 μL of 2× SDS sampling buffer at 100°C for 5 min. Four microliters of soluble cell lysate (10% input) was loaded as a control to indicate the original prey protein amount. Three-week-old plants were removed from GM medium (or selective medium) and placed in empty Petri dishes and sealed with Parafilm. The dehydration treatment was performed as described previously (CITATION). For the electrolyte leakage experiment, aerial portions of 3-week-old plants were dehydrated by sitting on a piece of Parafilm in empty Petri dishes under dim light conditions on a clean bench. The approximate RH and temperature for the corresponding time course treatment were 30% and 22 ± 2°C, respectively. Plants were subsequently dipped into 0.4 M mannitol solution and gently shaken at room temperature for 2 h. Electrolyte leakage was determined by measuring the conductivity of the solution using the DS-15 conductivity meter (Horiba). The total amount of electrolytes was determined after the solutions were autoclaved for 1 min. For the plant drought stress tolerance test, 3-week-old plants were transferred from agar plates to soil conditions. After a 1-week period of conditioning, they were subjected to a water stress by withholding watering. The plants were rewatered when significant differences in wilting were observed. Several independent experiments were performed under the conditions of 16 h/8 h of light/dark and RH of ∼60% to obtain statistically significant data. According to CITATION, DRIP1 and DREB2A full-length sequences were cloned into the pUCSPYNE or pUCSPYCE vectors with SpeI-SalI sites after the 35S promoter sequence, respectively. Analysis of transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells was performed as described previously (CITATION). YFP fluorescence was observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM510; Zeiss). Histochemical GUS staining was performed by soaking plants in solution containing 1 mM Glc, 50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, and 10% methanol at 37°C for ∼10 h. Three-week-old transgenic plants harboring the DREB2Apro:GFP-DREB2A constructs were removed from GMK agar plates and treated with either 50 μM MG132 (dissolved in DMSO; Calbiochem, lot B68556) or 50 μM DMSO solution (mock treatment) under dim light conditions overnight. GFP fluorescence was observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM510; Zeiss). Genome-wide expression studies using the Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray (Agilent Technologies) were performed using 3-week-old wild-type and drip1 drip2 plants. Gene expression was compared between wild-type and drip1 drip2 plants under both unstressed and 2-h dehydration stress conditions. Total RNA (200 ng) isolated with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) from each sample (pooled from six plants) was applied for the analysis. Biological replication was performed by analyzing the samples obtained from two independent treatments (for both control and 2-h dehydration stress). For each experiment, two slides were analyzed for a Cy3 and Cy5 dye swap, and eight slides were hybridized for the four experiments. All microarray data are available at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/ with the accession numbers E-MEXP-1351 and E-MEXP-1352. Integration and normalization of each spot's signal intensities were performed using the Lowess method of the Feature Extraction 9.5 program (Agilent Technologies). Statistical analysis was performed using ArrayAssist software (Stratagene). The Welch t test was used for the parametric test, and the Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate for multiple testing corrections was used with a P value of <0.05 to filter reliable genes. By this statistical analysis, we generated lists of the genes that present significant differences in their expression between wild-type and drip1 drip2 plants under normal conditions and exposed to a 2-h dehydration stress. All genes that were considered to show significant expression differences by the previous tests were then filtered by a fold change absolute > 2.0. Such genes were considered to be upregulated in drip1 drip2 plants in relation to wild-type plants. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: DRIP1 (At1g06770), DRIP2 (At2g30580), RD29A (At5g52310), RD29B (At5g52300), LEA14 (At1g01470), RD17 (At1g20440), GolS1 (At2g47180), and GolS2 (At1g56600). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Multiple Sequence Alignment of DRIP1, DRIP2, and Their Orthologs. Supplemental Figure 2. DRIP2 Functions as an E3 Ubiquitin Ligase and Mediates DREB2A Protein Ubiquitination. Supplemental Figure 3. DRIP1 and DRIP2 Gene Expression Profiling under Various Stresses in Different Tissues. Supplemental Figure 4. The Proteasome Inhibitor MG132 Inhibits GFP-DREB2A Fusion Protein Degradation When It Is Overexpressed by the 35S Promoter in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 5. Relative Water Content of Wild-Type Columbia and the drip1 drip2 Double Mutant under Dehydration Conditions. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in Quantitative RT-PCR. Supplemental Table 2. Positive Clones from Yeast Two-Hybrid Library Screening. Supplemental Methods. Description of pGreen Vectors. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File Corresponding to the Alignment in Supplemental Figure 1 online. Supplemental Data Set 2. Genes Upregulated in Nonstressed drip1 drip2 Mutant Plants. Supplemental Data Set 3. Genes Upregulated in the drip1 drip2 Mutant Relative to Wild-Type Plants after a 2-h Dehydration Stress.
