!~ABS~! SKP1-Cullin1-F-box protein (SCF) ubiquitin-ligases regulate numerous aspects of eukaryotic growth and development. Cullin-Associated and Neddylation-Dissociated (CAND1) modulates SCF function through its interactions with the CUL1 subunit. Although biochemical studies with human CAND1 suggested that CAND1 plays a negative regulatory role by sequestering CUL1 and preventing SCF complex assembly, genetic studies in Arabidopsis have shown that cand1 mutants exhibit reduced SCF activity, demonstrating that CAND1 is required for optimal SCF function in vivo. Together, these genetic and biochemical studies have suggested a model of CAND1-mediated cycles of SCF complex assembly and disassembly. Here, using the SCFTIR1 complex of the Arabidopsis auxin response pathway, we test the SCF cycling model with Arabidopsis mutant derivatives of CAND1 and CUL1 that have opposing effects on the CAND1–CUL1 interaction. We find that the disruption of the CAND1–CUL1 interaction results in an increased abundance of assembled SCFTIR1 complex. In contrast, stabilization of the CAND1–CUL1 interaction diminishes SCFTIR1 complex abundance. The fact that both decreased and increased CAND1–CUL1 interactions result in reduced SCFTIR1 activity in vivo strongly supports the hypothesis that CAND1-mediated cycling is required for optimal SCF function.
!~RES~! We have previously described a CAND1 mutant, eta2-1, that contains a missense mutation within a highly conserved region near the C terminus (CITATION). eta2-1 plants exhibit diminished SCFTIR1 activity and a corresponding reduction in auxin response. To examine how the mutation affects CAND1 function, we examined interactions between CAND1 and CUL1 by using coimmunoprecipitation assays. As previously reported, the eta2-1 mutation had no effect on CAND1 or CUL1 protein levels (FIG-REF A). However, although unmodified CUL1 efficiently coprecipitated with CAND1 from wild-type extracts, little if any CUL1 was observed in α-CAND1 precipitates from eta2-1 extracts (FIG-REF A). Thus, the eta2-1 point mutation greatly diminishes the ability of CAND1 to bind CUL1. Consistent with this finding, the eta2-1 mutation completely abolished the ability of CAND1 to interact with CUL1 in a yeast 2-hybrid assay (FIG-REF C). [[FIGURE]]  axr6-1 and axr6-2 are dominant-negative alleles of CUL1 that confer reduced auxin response when heterozygous and a seedling-lethal phenotype when homozygous (CITATION). These two mutations are distinct missense alleles of the same amino acid in an N-terminal domain of CUL1 that is involved in both SKP1 and CAND1 binding (CITATION). To investigate how axr6-1 and axr6-2 affect the CAND1–CUL1 interaction, we performed α-CAND1 immunoprecipitations with wild-type and homozygous mutant seedling extracts. In both axr6 mutants, we detected a dramatic increase in the amount of CUL1 coprecipitating with CAND1 (FIG-REF B). Like wild-type CUL1, however, the interaction was abolished by the eta2-1 mutation [supporting information (SI) Fig. S1A ]. To investigate the possibility that axr6-2 increases affinity for CAND1, we examined the interaction in a yeast 2-hybrid system. In contrast to our results with plant extracts, axr6-2 did not obviously affect interactions with CAND1 in yeast (FIG-REF C). A possible explanation for this difference is that Saccharomyces cerevisiae does not contain a CAND1 ortholog. Thus, there may be factors regulating CAND1–CUL1 interactions in higher eukaryotes that are absent from the yeast 2-hybrid system. If CAND1 regulates cycles of SCF assembly and disassembly by binding to CUL1, this cycle should be disrupted in eta2-1 and axr6-2 mutants. To test this possibility, we examined the SCFTIR1 complex in eta2-1 mutants by using a gel-filtration assay. A construct containing the TIR1 promoter driving expression of a TIR1-HA-Strep-tagged transgene was introduced into tir1-1 plants. This transgene fully complemented the auxin response defects conferred by the tir1-1 mutation (L.D.N., unpublished data). The transgene was subsequently crossed into the tir1-1 eta2-1 background, and α-HA Western blots confirmed equivalent levels of TIR1-HA-Strep expression (FIG-REF A). Protein extracts of tir1-1[TIR1-HA-Strep] and tir1-1 eta2-1[TIR1-HA-Strep] (subsequently referred to as “wild-type control” and “eta2-1,” respectively) were fractionated and blotted with antibodies against CAND1, CUL1, HA, and ASK1 (Arabidopsis SKP1). [[FIGURE]] In wild-type extracts, the ≈135-kDa CAND1 protein was detected predominantly in fractions 10–14, corresponding to molecular masses of ≈100–350 kDa (FIG-REF B). The CAND1–CUL1–RBX1 (CCR) complex has a predicted molecular mass of ≈235 kDa. The major CUL1 peak cofractionated with the upper distribution of CAND1 (FIG-REF B). Consistent with our findings that the eta2-1 mutation prevents CUL1 binding, the mutant protein was only detected in the low-molecular mass fractions (FIG-REF B). Thus, the CCR complex is present predominantly in fractions 10 and 11. Surprisingly, the CUL1 elution profile was unaltered by the eta2-1 mutation (FIG-REF B). However, SCF complexes have a predicted molecular mass very similar to that of the CCR complex. Because CUL1 assembles into the CCR and SCF complexes in a mutually exclusive fashion, it seemed possible that the disruption of the CCR complex by the eta2-1 mutation results in more CUL1 assembling into SCF complexes, which would be consistent with the predictions of the SCF cycling model. Consistently, we found that the eta2-1 mutation results in an enrichment of TIR1 in fractions corresponding to the molecular mass of the SCFTIR1 complex. The majority of TIR1 from wild-type extracts eluted in low-molecular-mass fractions the size of monomeric TIR1 or a TIR1–ASK complex (FIG-REF B). In contrast, TIR1 was nearly equally distributed between these low-molecular-mass fractions and fractions 10–11 in eta2-1 extracts. The eta2-1 mutation also caused a consistent increase in the relative amount of ASK1 that coeluted with CUL1 and TIR1 in fractions 10 and 11 (FIG-REF B). Together these results indicate that loss of the CCR complex in the eta2-1 mutant results in an increased abundance of the SCFTIR1 complex. Compared to eta2-1, the axr6-2 mutation had opposing effects on CCR and SCF complex abundance. A clear shift in the CAND1 elution profile was consistently observed, with more CAND1 coeluting with CUL1 in fractions 10 and 11 containing the CCR complex (FIG-REF B). Additionally, consistent with previous coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicating that the axr6-2 mutation dramatically reduced interactions with ASK1 (CITATION), we find axr6-2 causes a reduction in the relative abundance of ASK1 that coelutes with CUL1 in SCF fractions 10 and 11 (FIG-REF B). In a yeast 2-hybrid assay, however, axr6-2 caused only a moderate reduction in the ability to interact with ASK1 (FIG-REF C). Together these findings suggest that the axr6-2 mutation may shift the CUL1-binding equilibrium in favor of CAND1, thus reducing SCF complex assembly. To further test this possibility, we performed pull-down assays with plant extracts by using a domain II peptide from IAA7, an SCFTIR1 substrate (CITATION). Consistent with there being less assembled SCFTIR1, the axr6-2 mutation resulted in a reduction in the amount of CUL1 protein pulled down by the domain II bait peptide. However, CUL1 binding was partially restored in eta2-1 axr6-2 double mutants (FIG-REF D). To test the possibility that the axr6-2 mutation prevents CAND1–CUL1 dissociation, we generated double mutants with eta2-1. eta2-1 suppressed the seedling-lethal phenotype of axr6-2 homozygotes (FIG-REF A). Additionally, although eta2-1 is recessive, its suppression of axr6-2 is dominant, indicating increased sensitivity to CAND1 dosage. Examination of auxin inhibition of root growth revealed that eta2-1 axr6-2 double mutants display only a weak auxin response defect comparable to eta2-1 single mutants (Fig. S1B ). Like eta2-1, the cand1-1-null allele (CITATION) also suppressed the lethality of axr6-2 in a dominant fashion (FIG-REF B), indicating that suppression is not allele-specific, but is simply due to loss of CAND1 function. Thus, in the absence of CAND1, the axr6-2 mutant protein must be capable of fulfilling most, if not all, CUL1 functions. Curiously, although cand1-1 was largely epistatic to axr6-2, the axr6-2 mutation partially suppressed the dwarf phenotype of eta2-1 (FIG-REF A and B). [[FIGURE]] In addition to suppressing the lethality of axr6-2, mutations in cand1 also suppress the effects of axr6-2 on the cullin protein. As previously reported (CITATION), axr6-1 and axr6-2 cause a modest increase in the CUL1 protein level and a decrease in the ratio of RUB modified to unmodified CUL1, implying a defect in RUB modification. However, the loss of CAND1 restores both wild-type cullin levels and normal RUB modification to axr6-1 and axr6-2 plants (FIG-REF C). Unlike the dominant CUL1 alleles described above, axr6-3 is a recessive, temperature-sensitive mutation. We have previously shown that this mutation prevents SCF assembly by abolishing ASK1 binding, but does not affect interactions with CAND1 (CITATION). In sharp contrast to the suppression seen with axr6-2, eta2-1 axr6-3 double mutants displayed very dramatic phenotypes. All double mutant plants died when grown at 28°C (FIG-REF A and B). When grown at the more permissive temperature of 18°C, a few double mutants survived to adulthood, but exhibited extreme dwarfism, delayed senescence, and complete sterility (FIG-REF C and D). Auxin response assays of eta2-1 axr6-3 double mutants revealed that, although eta2-1 enhances the auxin response defect of axr6-3 at semipermissive temperature (data not shown), axr6-3 is largely epistatic to eta2-1 at higher temperatures (FIG-REF E). This finding is consistent with our previous finding that axr6-3 prevents SCF assembly at 28°C (CITATION). Thus, the severe growth defects of eta2-1 axr6-3 double mutants may be due to the effects of eta2-1 on CUL3- and CUL4-based ubiquitin ligases (CITATION, CITATION), rather than further impairment of CUL1-based SCF complexes. [[FIGURE]] The eta6 mutant was isolated from the same tir1-1 enhancer screen used to isolate eta2-1 (CITATION). Map-based cloning revealed that eta6 is a recessive allele of CSN1/FUS6, which encodes a subunit of the CSN (CITATION). This finding was confirmed by allelism tests with fus6-1 and by complementation with a CSN1 transgene, prompting us to rename our mutant csn1-10 (FIG-REF A). csn1-10 is a transition mutation resulting in a Ser→Asn substitution at amino acid 305 (Fig. S2A ) This residue is highly conserved among eukaryotic CSN1 orthologs. However, this mutation is in the last base of exon 4 and also affects mRNA splicing. Our analysis of CSN1 transcripts from csn1-10 plants detected two mRNA species: one that was correctly spliced and a second produced by using an errant splice site 32 bases upstream, resulting in a short deletion followed by a frameshift that truncates the protein. Western analysis revealed a reduction in the level of full-length CSN1 protein, but we did not detect the truncated derivative (Fig. S2B ). At this time, we do not know whether the csn1-10 phenotypes are the result of the missense mutation, the reduction in CSN1 levels due to the splicing error, or a combination of both. [[FIGURE]] Previous screens for constitutive photomorphogenesis/de-etiolated/fusca (cop/det/fus) mutants have identified CSN1 and several other CSN subunit mutations (CITATION). All of these mutants exhibit a strong cop − phenotype when grown in the dark and are seedling-lethal. Unlike these previously characterized csn mutants, csn1-10 does not display a cop − phenotype and is viable throughout development (FIG-REF A and C). csn1-10 seedlings do, however, exhibit auxin-resistant root growth (FIG-REF B) and reduced SCFTIR1 activity (Fig. S2C ). These findings suggest that csn1-10 is a weak allele that must retain sufficient CSN function for viability and repression of photomorphogenesis. Because the CSN has been proposed to act in conjunction with CAND1 to regulate cullins, we generated csn1-10 eta2-1 double mutants to examine genetic interactions. While cand1 single mutants exhibit only a weak cop − phenotype (CITATION, CITATION), eta2-1 csn1-10 double mutants display a much stronger de-etiolation defect (FIG-REF C). When grown in the light, double mutants produced several pairs of very small leaves, but never transitioned into reproductive development (FIG-REF D). This phenotype is similar to severe csn mutants, although csn-null plants generally produce only a few pairs of leaves before arresting (FIG-REF E). The csn1-10 mutation causes a modest increase in the auxin response defect conferred by eta2-1 (FIG-REF F). The CSN regulates SCF function via its metalloisopeptidase activity that cleaves RUB from CUL1 (CITATION). CUL1 Western blots revealed a clear accumulation of RUB-modified CUL1 in csn1-10 seedling extracts. However, this defect was not enhanced by eta2-1 (FIG-REF G). Likewise, gel-filtration analysis of CSN4 and CSN5 (Fig. S2D ) revealed that the eta2-1 mutation does not affect the elution profile of these subunits, suggesting that CSN assembly and interactions are not dependent on CAND1.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis lines used are in the Col-0 ecotype. Seedlings were grown under sterile conditions on ATS nutrient medium (CITATION) under long-day lighting at 20°C. For coimmunoprecipitation experiments, seedlings were grown in liquid ATS medium on a shaker at 20°C. Adult plants were grown in soil under long-day conditions at 18°C or 20°C. For root growth assays, 4-day-old seedlings were transferred to ATS medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and root growth was measured after an additional 4 days. The 35S::Flag-CSN1 transgene was provided by X. W. Deng (Yale University, New Haven, CT). To construct the PTIR1 ::TIR1-HA-Strep transgene, a fragment containing 1.7 kb of upstream promoter sequence, the 5′-UTR, and the TIR1 coding sequence without the stop codon was amplified by PCR from Col-0 genomic DNA and cloned into the pExtag-HAStrep vector (CITATION). The construct was subsequently transformed into tir1-1 mutant plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The full-length CAND1 ORF was cloned into pJG4/5 (Origene) to make the prey construct. The pEG202-CUL1 bait construct was a gift from X. W. Deng (CITATION). The K682R mutation in the RUB conjugation site and the axr6-2 mutation were introduced into the CUL1 bait construct by using the QuikChange XL site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). These plasmids were cotransformed with the P LexA ::lacZ reporter pSH18–34 (31) into yeast strain EGY48. Transformed colonies were inoculated into liquid media lacking histidine, uracil, and tryptophan supplemented with 2% raffinose. Cells were subcultured in 5 ml of the same media supplemented with 2% galactose to induce the expression of the AD-CAND1 fusion. After 6–8 h growth, cells were harvested for liquid β-gal assays as described previously (CITATION). For the CUL1-ASK1 assays, the constructs have been previously described (CITATION). β-gal activities from the integrated P GAL1 ::lacZ reporter in strain YPB2 were determined from cultures at 1.5 × 107 cells/ml grown at 24°C. CAND1, CUL1, and ASK1 antibodies have been described previously (CITATION). HA monoclonal antibody was obtained from Covance Research Products. CSN4, CSN5, and RPN6 antibodies were purchased from Biomol. CAND1-CUL1 coimmunoprecipitations were performed as per Quint et al. (CITATION) using extracts prepared from 5- to 7-day-old seedlings. The 6×His-IAA7-dII pull-down assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Seven-day-old seedlings were homogenized in extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris·HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), and 1× Halt protease inhibitors (Pierce). Homogenates were centrifuged for 15 min at 4°C to remove debris. Supernatants were spun again for 10 min and then filtered through a 0.2-μm filter (Pall). Then 600 μg of total protein was fractionated through a Superdex 200 10/300 GL column (Amersham). After loading the sample, proteins were eluted in filtered and degassed extraction buffer at a flow rate of 0.2 ml/min; 0.5-ml fractions were collected after the 6-ml void volume was reached and concentrated with StrataClean Resin (Stratagene). The column was calibrated by using gel-filtration calibration kits (Amersham) as per the manufacturer's instructions. All procedures were carried out at 4°C.
