!~ABS~! Plants use the energy in sunlight for photosynthesis, but as a consequence are exposed to the toxic effect of UV radiation especially on DNA. The UV-induced lesions on DNA affect both transcription and replication and can also have mutagenic consequences. Here we investigated the regulation and the function of the recently described CUL4-DDB1-DDB2 E3 ligase in the maintenance of genome integrity upon UV-stress using the model plant Arabidopsis. Physiological, biochemical, and genetic evidences indicate that this protein complex is involved in global genome repair (GGR) of UV-induced DNA lesions. Moreover, we provide evidences for crosstalks between GGR, the plant-specific photo reactivation pathway and the RAD1-RAD10 endonucleases upon UV exposure. Finally, we report that DDB2 degradation upon UV stress depends not only on CUL4, but also on the checkpoint protein kinase Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR). Interestingly, we found that DDB1A shuttles from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in an ATR-dependent manner, highlighting an upstream level of control and a novel mechanism of regulation of this E3 ligase.
!~RES~! In order to define the role of Arabidopsis CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 in DNA repair, a genetic approach was conducted. Two Arabidopsis DDB1A (ddb1a-1 and ddb1a-2) and one DDB2 (ddb2-2) insertion lines were identified using the web-assisted program: http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress. The Arabidopsis CUL4 insertion line used in this study (cul4-1) is described in CITATION. We used this hypomorphic mutant, which exhibits a strong reduction of CUL4 expression, instead of a null mutant that is lethal in Arabidopsis (unpublished). In lines ddb1a-1 and ddb1a-2 the T-DNAs are integrated in the 10th exon and in the 5th intron, respectively (CITATION). For both tagged lines, Arabidopsis plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertions did not exhibit significant phenotypical differences compared to wild-type (WT) plants under standard growth conditions. Using RT-PCR DDB1A transcripts remain undetectable in ddb1a-1 and ddb1a-2 mutant plants (CITATION) indicating that both mutant lines are defective for DDB1A expression. For DDB2, which is encoded by a single gene in Arabidopsis, we raised antibodies against the protein for its immunodetection in different mutant lines (see experimental procedures for details). One T-DNA insertion mutant for AtUV-DDB2 (here referred as ddb2-1) was recently reported CITATION, but this mutant still expresses low amount of DDB2 protein (not shown). For this reason, we chose another mutant line, ddb2-2 (Nossen ecotype), in which a transposon is integrated in the 10th exon (CITATION). No signal on western blot is detectable in ddb2-2 (CITATION), suggesting a loss-of-function mutation. Similarly to ddb1a mutants, plants homozygous for this insertion did not exhibit significant phenotypic differences compared to the wild type Arabidopsis plants grown under standard conditions. It is noteworthy that DDB2 expression level in both Col0 and Nossen WT Arabidopsis ecotypes is low (CITATION), which is in agreement with the signal intensity of several different microarray experiments reflecting the transcript level CITATION. (A) Genomic organization of the DDB1A and DDB2 loci. T-DNAs are inserted in the 10th exon (black boxes) in the ddb1a-1 and in the 5th intron (black line) in ddb1a-2 mutant plants. Primers a–b, c–d and LBb1 were used for genotyping ddb1a-1 and ddb1a-2, respectively. In the ddb2-2, the transposon is inserted in the 10th exon (black boxes). Primers h–g and Ds5-2a were used for genotyping (see supplemental material for details). (B) Molecular characterisation of DDB1A- and DDB2-mutant plants. RT-PCR analyses were performed for DDB1A expression in WT and the insertional mutants ddb1a-1 and ddb1a-2 using the specific e–f primers. RPL4 primers were used as a control (See supplemental material for details). Immuno-detection of DDB2 protein in two different WT Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes (Columbia: Col0 and Nossen: No) and in the ddb2-2 insertional mutant. Coomassie blue staining was used as loading control. (C) Root-growth assay. One-week-old mutant (cul4-1, ddb1a-1, ddb1a-2, ddb2-2), and WT control plants were exposed to 600 J/m2 of UV-C. Root growth was measured 24h following irradiation. Root growth was calculated relative to the corresponding untreated plants (±SEM). Eight plants per replicate were used and experiments were performed in triplicates. For all mutants p<0.05, compared to WT plants (both ecotypes). To test whether Arabidopsis CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 are involved in the repair of UV-induced DNA lesions, root growth inhibition experiments were performed. In plants, roots are the material of choice to measure the defect in UV tolerance, because they lack UV-screen compounds, which protect cells from UV light. cul4, ddb1a and ddb2 defective mutant plants were grown vertically on the agar surface and roots were irradiated with 600 J/m2 of UV-C. Relative root growth (root length treated/ root length untreated) in % was determined 24h following the UV-C treatment. Root growth was reduced to 28, 37, 50 and 53% for cul4-1, ddb1a-1, ddb1a-2 and ddb2-2, respectively, relative to that of WT control plants (CITATION). Therefore all insertion lines exhibit a significant root growth inhibition upon exposure to UV-C compared to WT Arabidopsis plants. Interestingly, both Arabidopsis DDB1A and DDB2 over expressing plants exhibit an enhanced UV-C tolerance compared to WT plants (CITATION) suggesting that both proteins, as effectors of the excision repair pathway, are limiting factors in this process. Cisplatin is another DNA damaging agent that induces bulky DNA lesions. Similarly to UV-C stress, cul4-1, ddb1a-2 and ddb2-2 exhibit a significant growth reduction compared to WT control plants, as measured by their relative weight (CITATION). However, we did not observe such a difference in sensitivity upon exposure of the mutant lines to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2; CITATION). This lack of sensitivity is in agreement with the fact that H2O2 induced DNA lesions are not predominantly repaired by the NER pathway. Taken together these data suggest that CUL4-, DDB1A- and DDB2-deficient plants are affected in the tolerance to induced bulky DNA damage and this may reflect a defect in DNA repair. Plants compensate the deleterious effects of UV radiation by various mechanisms including the accumulation of secondary metabolites CITATION. To check whether the UV-C hypersensitive phenotype of cul4, ddb1a and ddb2 mutant lines is the consequence of a defect in a DNA repair mechanism, cell extracts of WT, cul4-1 and ddb2-2 plants were used in an in vitro DNA repair assay as described in CITATION. This assay measures the efficiency of DIG dUTP incorporation in a UV-C damaged plasmid in the presence of plant cell extracts. Thereby the efficiency of dark repair of UV-induced DNA damage can be evaluated. Strikingly, cell extracts derived from the mutant plants were less efficient in DIG dUTP incorporation after 1 and 2 h of incubation (CITATION). Taken together these results show that the UV hypersensitivity of cul4 and ddb2 (and most likely ddb1a) mutant plants is due to a defect in synthesis-dependent repair of UV-induced DNA lesions, indicating an important role for these factors in the excision repair process. Cell extracts (20 µg) from WT (Col/Nossen), cul4-1 and ddb2-2 plants were incubated with UV-C damaged (UV-C treated pGEX: +UV-C) and control (untreated pBKS: −UV-C) plasmids in the presence of DIG-dUTP. Incorporation was evaluated during a time course. These pictures are representative of 2 independent experiments. CENTRIN2 (CEN2) and the heterodimer RAD1-RAD10 (XPF-ERCC1) act in the GGR-NER repair pathway CITATION. CEN2 is part of the XPC-RAD23 recognition complex, whereas, RAD1-RAD10 in cooperation with RAD2 are the endonucleases excising the bulky DNA lesions. In Arabidopsis CEN2, RAD1-RAD10 are also part of the GGR-NER repair process CITATION. In order to define whether CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 act in the same repair pathway as CEN2 and RAD1-RAD10 different double mutants were produced and characterised for their UV-C sensitivity by using the root growth assay. Double ddb1a-2 ddb2-2, cul4-1 cen2-2, ddb1a-2 cen2-2 and ddb2-2 cen2-2 mutant plants did not exhibit significant additive effects on root growth inhibition compared to the respective single mutants (CITATION). These results are consistent with epistatic interactions between CUL4, DDB1A, DDB2 and CEN2 indicating that they act in the same pathway. One-week-old single and double mutant plants (A) ddb1a-2-ddb2-2; cul4-1-cen2-2; ddb1a-2-cen2-2; ddb2-2-cen2-2 (B) cul4-1-rad10; ddb1a-2-rad10; ddb2-2-rad10; cen2-2-rad1 were exposed to 600 J/m2 of UV-C. Root growth was measured 24h following irradiation. Root growth was calculated relative to the corresponding untreated plants (±SEM). Eight plants per replicate were used and experiments were triplicated. For all the single and double mutants p<0.05, compared to WT plants. Because ddb2-2 is in a different Arabidopsis ecotype, the single control mutants were selected as segregants from each double mutant involving ddb2-2 and are indicated by *. The same approach was used using Arabidopsis RAD1 or RAD10 defective plants. Contrary to the results observed with cen2-2, all double mutant plants (cul4-1 rad10, ddb1a-2 rad10, ddb2-2 rad10 and cen2-2 rad1) exhibit an enhanced UV-C sensitivity compared to the respective single mutants (CITATION). These synergistic genetic interactions suggest that UV induced DNA lesions are processed by at least two different repair pathways in which RAD1 and RAD10 seem to play a role. Although it is assumed that RAD1 and RAD10 are mainly involved in NER, a role in homologous recombination (HR) has also been reported CITATION,CITATION. In addition, UV was already shown to stimulate somatic homologous recombination CITATION. Thus our genetic approach suggests that not only NER, but also HR, contributes to maintain genome integrity upon UV irradiation. In contrast to mammals, plants and other organisms have a direct DNA repair mechanism, which involves photolyases CITATION. It has previously been shown that the Arabidopsis UVR2 gene encodes a photolyase (PHR1) specific for CPDs CITATION,CITATION, which are the main UV-induced DNA lesions. Because CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 act in the GGR-NER pathway (see above), we checked how a combined defect in both DNA repair pathways affects UV-C tolerance in plants. For this, double cul4-1 phrI, ddb1a-2 phrI and ddb2-2 phrI mutant plants were produced and exposed to chronic UV-C doses. Hence, all double mutants exhibited a significant higher UV sensitivity compared to the corresponding single mutant plants reflected by a reduction in the number of newly formed leaves and a higher number of bleached plants (CITATION). This synergistic genetic interaction between both pathways indicates that NER and not only photolyase plays a major role to maintain genome integrity in green tissues, which are constantly exposed to sunlight. Ten-day-old single (cul4-1, ddb1a-2, ddb2-2, phrI) and double mutant plants (cul4-1 phrI, ddb1a-2 phrI, ddb2-2 phrI) were irradiated with UV-C (3000 J/m2) 3 times in row every 2 days. (A) Graph representing the average number of leaves. Counting was one week after the last UV-C exposure. At least 20 plants were used per replicate and this experiment was duplicated. T-test *p<0.05, compared to WT plants. (B) Graph representing the percentage of bleached plants. Counting was 2 weeks after the last UV-C exposure. At least 20 plants were used per replicate and this experiment was duplicated. (C) Pictures showing the phenotype of plants 14 days after the last UV-C exposure (Bar = 1 cm). Next, we investigated whether Arabidopsis CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 proteins form a complex in planta. As no antibody against DDB1A was available and because we further aimed to determine the subcellular localisation of DDB1A and DDB2, we first produced Arabidopsis transgenic plants expressing GFP-tagged versions of both proteins (CITATION). To test whether the DDB1A-GFP fusion protein was functional, complementation of the UV-C sensitivity of ddb1a-2 plants was analysed using the root growth assay. Expression of both untagged DDB1A and DDB1A-GFP fusion protein complement the ddb1a-2 UV-C sensitivity compared to the control plants to the same extent (CITATION). Therefore DBB1A-GFP expressing plants are suitable for further analyses. Pair-wise immunoprecipitation experiments were conducted using either anti-CUL4 or anti-GFP antibodies. Indeed we found that both DDB1A and DDB2 co-immunoprecipitate with CUL4 (CITATION). In addition, we showed an enrichment of DDB2 when co-immunoprecipitated with CUL4 upon UV-C exposure compared to untreated plants (CITATION). (A) Schematic representation of the constructs (mas: mannopine synthase; GFP: Green Fluorescent Protein; T: nos terminator). (B) Root growth assays showing complementation of ddb1a-2 with either DDB1A or DDB1A-GFP ectopically expressed proteins. (C) In vivo pull down of CUL4 with DDB1A and DDB2 proteins. WT, pOEX4GFP-DDB2 and ddb1a-2 pOEX2DDB1A-GFP plants were used for immunoprecipitation assays using either anti-CUL4 (Bernhardt et al., 2006) or anti-GFP antibodies. WT plants were used as controls. (D) In vivo pull down of CUL4 complex upon UV-C exposure. WT plants were used for immunoprecipitation assays using anti-CUL4 antibody. CUL4 and DDB2 were detected before (−) and 15 min upon UV-C exposure (+). (E) Localisation of GFP-DDB2 fusion protein in root cells using confocal microscopy (Bar = 50 µm) and immunolocalisation in root cells (Bar = 5 µm). (F) Localisation of DDB1A-GFP fusion protein in root cells using confocal microscopy (Bar = 25 µm). All pictures are representative of 3 different experiments using independent transgenic lines. Chromatin is stained by DAPI (blue). In XP group E patients, a point mutation in the DxR motif (R273H) of the WD40 domain in DDB2 abolishes its interaction with DDB1 leading to the human genetic disorder XPE CITATION. This motif is also conserved in Arabidopsis. Therefore, we investigated the interaction between the mutated Arabidopsis DDB2 protein DDB2 (R343H) and DDB1A using the yeast two-hybrid assay. In contrast to human, interaction between DDB1A and DDB2 was not abolished by the DxR mutation (CITATION). This shows that some features of the Arabidopsis DDB1A-DDB2 interaction may differ from those of human. Overall, our immunoprecipitation and previously published yeast two-hybrid assays CITATION suggest that CUL4, DDB1A and DDB2 are part of a same protein complex in vivo. To better understand the regulation of the CUL4-DDB1A-DDB2 complex in the context of DNA repair, the subcellular localisation of DDB1A and DDB2 was investigated. Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-tagged versions of DDB1A and DDB2 were analysed using confocal microscopy. We observed that GFP-DDB2 is localized exclusively in the nucleus (CITATION). This result is consistent with the published work in metazoans, including human CITATION. To investigate into more details the localisation of DDB2, we performed immunolocalisation experiments using the anti-GFP antibody. We found DDB2 broadly distributed on chromatin with a lower intensity at the chromocenters and nucleoli (CITATION). This result is also in agreement with the recent work of CITATION showing a homogenous distribution of human DDB2 on chromatin in absence of genotoxic stress. On the other hand, the subcellular localisation of DDB1 in mammalian cells is less well understood and seems more complex CITATION,CITATION,CITATION. Here we show that Arabidopsis DDB1A-GFP is mainly located in the cytosol and is enriched in speckles of unknown origin (CITATION). This subcellular localisation contrasts with the situation in mammals, where both nuclear and cytoplasmic localisations have been reported. The strict cytosolic localisation of plant DDB1A raises the question whether this protein relocates to the nucleus under genotoxic stress conditions in order to contribute to the DNA repair process. To investigate whether DDB1A protein accumulates in the nucleus, at least transiently upon DNA stress, we performed a time course experiment following UV-C exposure. Strikingly, as soon as five minutes upon exposure to UV-C, we observed a clear enrichment of the DDB1A-GFP signal in nuclei of UV-C treated roots and this signal even increased up to 30 min (CITATION). The UV-C dependent nuclear shuttling of DDB1A suggests an upstream level of control of the CUL4-DDB1A-DDB2 complex. (A) DDB1A-GFP dynamics upon UV-C exposure (600 J/m2) in WT (upper panel) and in atr-2 mutant plant (lower panel). Bar = 75 µm. Pictures are representative of 3 different experiments using 2 independent transgenic lines. (B) Higher magnification of DDB1A-GFP localisation 15 min upon UV-C exposure in either ddb1a-2 or atr-2 mutant backgrounds. Chromatin is stained by DAPI (blue). (C) Immunoblot revealing DDB2 content upon UV-C exposure (900 J/m2) in WT, cul4-1, ddb1a-2 and atr-2 Arabidopsis plants. Coomassie blue staining was used as loading control. Ataxia telangiectasia-mutated and Rad3-related (ATM, ATR) kinases play a crucial role in sensing and transmitting DNA damage signals to downstream effectors of cell-cycle progression or DNA repair components. The response of ATR to UV lesions and stalled replication forks occurs independently of ATM, although both ATM and ATR have also cooperative roles CITATION. Thus we investigated whether DDB1A nuclear shuttling depends on ATR. To do so, we engineered ATR-deficient plants (atr-2) expressing the DDB1A-GFP construct and monitored the DDB1A dynamics upon UV-C exposure. In contrast to the rapid DDB1A shuttling from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in WT plants, DDB1A-GFP remained excluded from the nucleus in UV-exposed atr deficient plants (CITATION). Thus we conclude that both DDB1A and DDB2 accumulate in the nuclei of cells upon UV-stress, most likely to promote excision repair and that this mechanism is dependent on ATR. In order to study the regulation of DDB2 stability in the context of DNA repair, the DDB2 protein content was determined upon exposure of WT, CUL4-, DDB1A- and ATR-deficient plants to UV-C. Both the endogenous DDB2 and the GFP-DDB2-tagged protein steady state levels in WT plants start to decrease between 30 min to 1 hour after UV-C treatment (CITATION and CITATION). Two hours after UV-C treatment neither the DDB2 protein content (CITATION) nor the DDB1A subcellular localisation (data not shown) was re-established. As similar decrease in DDB2 protein content was observed when plants where treated with cisplatin (CITATION), which also induces bulky DNA lesions that are processed by the excision repair pathway. However, it is noteworthy that the decrease in the steady state level of DDB2 was only evident after 6 hours, most likely because the drug uptake by the plant and its genotoxic effects need more time, compared to UV-treatment. In contrast to UV and cisplatin treatments, no DDB2 decay was observed upon exposure of WT plants to hydrogen peroxide, that induces DNA lesions which are not predominantly repaired by the GGR-NER pathway (CITATION). In human, DDB2 stability is controlled by the CUL4-based E3 ligase CITATION. Therefore we tested whether CUL4 and DDB1A are essential components for UV-induced degradation of DDB2 in vivo by exposing Arabidopsis CUL4- and DDB1A-deficient plants to UV-C. Interestingly, DDB2 protein level remained stable and even slightly increased upon UV-C exposure in cul4-1 and ddb1a-2 mutant plants, suggesting that DDB2 is a target of the CUL4-DDB1A E3 ligase complex (CITATION and CITATION). Moreover, all our attempts to express GFP-DDB2 in either cul4-1 or ddb1a-2 mutant backgrounds failed leading to plant death, suggesting that DDB2's turnover is crucial for plant survival (data not shown). As we showed that DDB1A shuttles from the cytoplasm to the nucleus upon UV-C exposure in an ATR-dependent manner (CITATION), we investigated whether a defect in this mechanism abolishes also DDB2 decay. Thus, atr-2 mutant plants were irradiated with UV-C and DDB2 protein content was determined during a time course. Interestingly, no decay of DDB2 protein was observed (CITATION and CITATION), indicating a role for ATR in the regulation of DDB2 stability, most likely via the direct or indirect control of DDB1A shuttling to the nucleus.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis mutant plants have been identified using the web assisted program: http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress. ddb1a-1 (SALK 055584), ddb1a-2 (SALK 038757), cen2-2 (SM-3-20758), atr-2 (SALK 032841), rad10 (SALK 077000), rad1 CITATION, phrI (WiscDsLox 466C12) are in Columbia ecotype whereas ddb2-2 (RATM53-3351-1) is in Nossen ecotype. The cul4-1 mutant is described in CITATION. For in vitro culture plants were germinated on GM medium (MS salts (Duchefa, The Netherlands), 1% sucrose, 0.8% agar, pH 5.8) in the presence or absence of a selectable agent. Plants were grown in a culture chamber under a 16h/8h photoperiod (22°C/20°C). For soil cultured plants, seeds were sown (20/pot) and put at 4°C in the dark during 3 days. The pots were transferred in greenhouse and kept under a regime of 16h/8h photoperiod (20°C/16°C; 70% humidity). At the 4 leaf developmental stage, plants were individualized and grown for further experiments. Single and double homozygous mutant plants were characterised by PCR (see supplemental material for details). The effect of the T-DNA or transposon on gene expression was determined by RT-PCR for DDB1A and western blotting for DDB2, respectively. Total RNA from WT plants or insertion lines was prepared using Trizol (GibcoBRL). The reverse transcription was performed using 4.5 µg of total RNAs, hexamers and the Reverse Transcription kit (Applied Biosystems). The PCR reaction was performed in 50 µl reaction mixture containing 1 µl of the RT reaction mixture, 1.25U of ExTaq (Takara), 1.5 mM MgCl2, 200 µM of each dNTP and 2 µM of gene specific primers The genes specific primers and PCR conditions are in supplemental material. For all genes different dilutions of the RT reaction mixture and number of PCR cycles were used to confirm that the PCR amplifications were within the linear range. The pOEX2 and pOEX4 vectors CITATION driving expression of DDB1A or DDB2, respectively, under the control of the mannopine synthase constitutive promoter were constructed. The cDNAs of Arabidopsis DDB1A and DDB2 were amplified by PCR from the stock center clones (C104978 and U61992), sequenced and cloned into the pOEX2 and pOEX4 vectors, respectively between the NcoI-AvrII sites for DDB2 and PmeI-AvrII sites for DDB1A. For GFP fusion, the GFP coding sequence was inserted into the NcoI sites for pOEX4GFP-DDB2 fusion and AvrII site for pOEX2DDB1A-GFP fusion. The resulting plasmids pOEX2DDB1A, pOEX2DDB1A-GFP and pOEX4GFP-DDB2 were mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and used to transform Arabidopsis WT and ddb1a-2 plants. DDB1A expression was verified by RT-PCR and DDB1A-GFP using primers combination e and f (see supplemental material). To evaluate the UV-C (254 nm) sensitivity, we used a root-growth assay. Three-day-old in vitro germinated WT and homozygous mutant plants were transferred to square plates containing GM medium and grown vertically for an additional day. Root length was measured 24h upon UV-C exposure (600 J/m2) using a Stratalinker (Stratagene). The relative root growth was calculated: (root length treated/ root length untreated)×100 (±SEM). Eight plants per replicate were used. Experiments were performed in triplicates. No significant differences in root growth were observed between all untreated mutants and WT plants under our growth conditions and at the time the plant material was analysed. To evaluate the UV-C (254 nm) sensitivity on whole plants 1-week-old in vitro germinated WT and homozygous mutant plants were irradiated with UV-C (3000 J/m2) 3 times in row every 2 days using a Stratalinker (Stratagene). Plants were immediately returned to the growth chamber. The bleached phenotype was observed one week later. At least 20 plants per replicate were used and the experiment was duplicated. For treatment with Cisplatin (Cis) and hydrogen peroxyde (H2O2), 10 day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were transferred from solid GM plates into 24-well culture plates placed in sterile liquid GM medium containing 0; 0.1; 0.5; 1; 5 and 10 µM of Cisplatin (Sigma) or 0; 1.25; 2.5; 3.75 and 5 mM of H2O2 (Sigma). The use of different concentrations allowed us to check the linear range of the treatment. The relative weight was calculated: (weight treated/ weight untreated)×100 (±SEM) for the most representative concentration (5 µM Cisplatin and 2.5 mM H2O2). Eight plants per concentration were used. Experiments were performed in triplicates. The in vitro repair assay according to CITATION was performed on cell extracts prepared from cul4-1, ddb2-2 Arabidopsis mutant plants and from WT as control. The pGEX and pBSK plasmids were linearised using the SmaI restriction enzyme and purified using the Gel extraction kit (Qiagen). The pGEX-linearised plasmid was either UV-C damaged (450 J/m2) using the Stratalinker (Stratagene) and used as repair substrate. The non-damaged pBSK-linearised plasmid was used as internal control. Fifteen µg of protein extracts were used per time point and mixed with 200 ng of damaged plasmid (pGEX) and 300 ng of non-damaged plasmid (pBSK). The reaction was stopped 30 min, 1 h or 2 h after incubation by rapid frozen into liquid nitrogen. Plasmids were purified using the Gel extraction kit (Qiagen) and separate by electrophoresis on a 0.8% agarose gel. DNA was transferred to a nylon membrane (Roche) by capillary transfer and DIG detection procedures were performed using the DIG Nucleic Acid Detection kit (Roche) according the manufacturer's instruction. Roots of vertically grown one week-old in vitro germinated WT and pOEX4 GFP-DDB2 plants were excised and images were captured as a stacked series using the Axiovert 100M confocal microscope (Zeiss). For immunolocalisation roots were excised, fixed and immunostained using the anti-GFP antibody (Clontech) as described in CITATION. Roots of DDB2-GFP plants were fixed during 45 min in 4% formaldehyde prepared in 1×PME (50 mM Pipes, 5 mM MgSO4, 5 mM EGTA, pH 6.9) and washed 5 times 5 min in 1×PME. Roots were digested for 45 min in a 0.3% (w/v) cellulase, 0.3% (w/v) pectolyase solution (Onuzuka RS cellulase) prepared in 1×PME and washed 5 times for 5 min with 1×PME. Root tips were squashed onto poly-lysine-coated slides and allowed to air dry. Slides were rehydrated in 1×PME and incubated for 15 min with 0.5% Triton X-100 (Sigma) in 1×PME and rinsed with 1×PME. Slides were incubated 3 times 5 min in 1×PME and immersed in −20°C methanol for 10 min. Slides were rinsed in 1×PBS for 10 min and washed 3 times 5 min in 1×PBS at room temperature, then incubated with the monoclonal anti-GFP antibody (Clontech). Antibody was diluted 1∶750 in 3% BSA, 0.05% Tween-20, 0.02% NaN3 in 1×PBS. Hundred µl of diluted primary antibody were applied to each slide for 3 h at room temperature. Slides were washed 3 times 5 min in 1×PBS and incubated for 3 h at room temperature in presence of 100 µl of FITC-conjugated goat anti-mouse secondary antibody diluted in (1∶1000) in 3% BSA, 0.05% Tween-20, 0.02% NaN3 in 1×PBS dilution solution. Slides were washed as before and mounted in DAPI-containing mounting medium (Vectashield, Vector). Nuclei were visualized using a Nikon E800 fluorescence microscope. For monitoring DDB1A dynamics, roots of vertically grown one week-old in vitro germinated ddb1a-2 pOEX2DDB1A-GFP plants were irradiated with UV-C at 600 J/m2 using a the Stratalinker (Stratagene) and images were captured every 5 min during the first hour following UV-C exposure. A peptide of 16 amino acids (DLPSREIVHSNDFNRH) was synthesised and used to immunise rabbit. The antiserum was immunopurified against the peptide according the protocol of BIOMOL. For determining DDB2 content, 2-week-old germinated WT, cul4-1 and atr-2 plants were grown in vitro on GM medium. Plants were UV-C irradiated (900 J/m2) using the Stratalinker (Stratagene). Eight plants per time point (before irradiation, 15 min, 30 min, 1 h and 2 h after irradiation) were harvested. Total protein was prepared using a denaturating buffer. Twenty µg of total protein were separated by SDS gel and blotted onto Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore). The anti-peptidic anti-AtDDB2 antibody was used to 1/1000 dilution. Quantification of protein content was performed using the Image J software relative to the loading controls. a: TTTGGTATGGCTTTTACTTCCTG b: TGGTCATCTGATATATTGCTTCC c: TGAGAGACCATAACCATCTTCTAGC d: GATGTGCAAAGCCCACTATTG e: GGAAAATGAACCAACTAAGGAAGG f: TTGATTGATGATTGATTTGACTC g: GATTCAAGATTGATGATCCATTCCAC h: AAAATCCTCACGACGTGTCAG LBa1: TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG LBb1: GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT Ds5: TCCGTTCCGTTTTCGTTTTTTAC Ds3: CCGGATCGTATCGGTTTTCG
