!~ABS~! In contrast to animals, where polyamine (PA) catabolism efficiently converts spermine (Spm) to putrescine (Put), plants have been considered to possess a PA catabolic pathway producing 1,3-diaminopropane, Δ1-pyrroline, the corresponding aldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide but unable to back-convert Spm to Put. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome contains at least five putative PA oxidase (PAO) members with yet-unknown localization and physiological role(s). AtPAO1 was recently identified as an enzyme similar to the mammalian Spm oxidase, which converts Spm to spermidine (Spd). In this work, we have performed in silico analysis of the five Arabidopsis genes and have identified PAO3 (AtPAO3) as a nontypical PAO, in terms of homology, compared to other known PAOs. We have expressed the gene AtPAO3 and have purified a protein corresponding to it using the inducible heterologous expression system of Escherichia coli. AtPAO3 catalyzed the sequential conversion/oxidation of Spm to Spd, and of Spd to Put, thus exhibiting functional homology to the mammalian PAOs. The best substrate for this pathway was Spd, whereas the N1-acetyl-derivatives of Spm and Spd were oxidized less efficiently. On the other hand, no activity was detected when diamines (agmatine, cadaverine, and Put) were used as substrates. Moreover, although AtPAO3 does not exhibit significant similarity to the other known PAOs, it is efficiently inhibited by guazatine, a potent PAO inhibitor. AtPAO3 contains a peroxisomal targeting motif at the C terminus, and it targets green fluorescence protein to peroxisomes when fused at the N terminus but not at the C terminus. These results reveal that AtPAO3 is a peroxisomal protein and that the C terminus of the protein contains the sorting information. The overall data reinforce the view that plants and mammals possess a similar PA oxidation system, concerning both the subcellular localization and the mode of its action.
!~RES~! In silico analysis of the Arabidopsis genome showed that it contains five putative PAOs, AtPAO1 (At5g13700; GenBank accession no. NM_121373), AtPAO2 (At2g43020; GenBank accession no. AF364952), AtPAO3 (At3g59050; GenBank accession no. AY143905), AtPAO4 (At1g65840; GenBank accession no. AF364953), and AtPAO5 (At4g29720; GenBank accession no. AK118203), all of which encode proteins with a single amine oxidase domain (CITATION). Irrespective of their origin, all PAO proteins contain four conserved motifs (Fig. 1 ). More specifically, PAOs in their N terminus (amino acids 30–60) contain a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-binding motif, while the positions 300 to 330, 380 to 410, and 440 to 460 approximately contain three specific PAO motifs (Fig. 1). All these motifs were present in AtPAO3 as indicated using the Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool software (Fig. 1; CITATION). Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis of the five putative genes indicated that PAO genes in Arabidopsis can be separated into three paraphyletic groups (Fig. 2 ). More specifically, the gene AtPAO1 can be classified with the well-characterized plant PAO genes from maize (Zea mays; ZmPAO; GenBank accession no. NM_001111636; CITATION) and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum; NtPAO; GenBank accession no. AB200262; Yoda et al., 2006). On the other hand, AtPAO2, AtPAO3, and AtPAO4 can be clustered together in one group, while AtPAO5 is the most distinct PAO gene (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In mammals, PAOs able to back-convert PAs are localized in peroxisomes (CITATION). From the above-mentioned Arabidopsis genes, AtPAO2, AtPAO3, and AtPAO4 are predicted from the AraPerox database to be localized in plant peroxisomes (CITATION), containing a peroxisomal targeting signal 1-type signal responsible for the localization of mammalian PAOs in peroxisomes. These triggered us to further investigate AtPAO3 as a starting point for the comparative analysis between plant and mammalian PA catabolism. AtPAO3 protein exhibits 84% identity with AtPAO2, 77% identity with an unknown protein from Vitis vinifera (GenBank accession no. CU459235.1), 72% identity with Os04g0623300 gene product from Oryza sativa (GenBank accession no. NM_001060458.1), and 61% identity with AtPAO4. The similarity to other PAOs, including those localized in peroxisomes of mammals, was very low. The coding region of the AtPAO3 cDNA was obtained by performing PCR on a pUNI 51 vector containing the AtPAO3 cDNA (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center [ABRC] Stock Center, clone no. U21196). The size of the AtPAO3 coding region is 1,467 bp. In addition, we checked the expression of the gene in both leaves and roots using reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and detected that the gene is mostly expressed in the leaves (Supplemental Fig. S1). AtPAO3 encodes for a 488-amino acid protein, with a calculated molecular mass of 54.1 kD and pI 5.81. To overexpress the AtPAO3 protein in a heterologous system, the AtPAO3 cDNA containing the complete open reading frame was introduced into the pDEST-TH1 vector, to fuse AtPAO3 to the maltose-binding protein (MBP; MBP:PAO3) under the inducible tac promoter (fusion of the trp and lac promoters; Fig. 3A ). This construct was introduced into Escherichia coli BL21 cells and induced with isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) for protein expression (Fig. 3B). AtPAO3 protein was detected at high levels in total cell lysates as soon as 1 h after induction (Fig. 3B). At 37°C, the accumulation of the MBP:PAO3 protein was found mostly in the pellet fraction of cell lysates, as indicated using an anti-MBP-specific polyclonal antibody (Fig. 3C). After decreasing the culture temperature from 37°C to 18°C and the inductive IPTG concentration from 1 mm to 0.05 mm, higher MBP:PAO3 protein accumulation was detected in the soluble fraction (Fig. 3C). Lower temperatures or IPTG concentrations did not have any significant effect on the amount of MBP:PAO3 protein accumulation (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To purify the MBP:PAO3 protein, supernatants from cell lysates from induced cultures were passed through an amylose resin to bind the MBP tag, and AtPAO3 protein was purified to >80% (Fig. 3D). Furthermore, digestion of the MBP:PAO3 fusion with the Xa factor, a protease that specifically cleaves the junction between the MBP and PAO3 in the Ile-Leu-Glu-Gly-Arg sequence, resulted in two separate proteins, MBP with a molecular mass of 42 kD and AtPAO3 with a molecular mass of 54 kD (Fig. 3E). The MBP:PAO3 protein was further purified using gel filtration (Fig. 3F). More specifically, the MBP:PAO3 protein sample was applied again to an amylose resin and subsequently to a Sephadex gel filtration column equilibrated with MBP buffer, pH 7.0. Elution was performed with the same buffer, collecting fractions of 3.0 mL. The procedure was repeated twice, and the MBP:PAO3 protein was dialyzed in MBP buffer. More than 3 mg of recombinant MBP:PAO3 L−1 culture could be obtained after the gel filtration step at 18°C and inductive IPTG 0.05 mm (Fig. 3F). The AtPAO3 protein was further purified from the MBP tag after digestion with the Xa factor by applying it to an amylose resin to rebind the MBP. The Xa factor was removed through a hydroxyapatite column, resulting in a single band corresponding to the AtPAO3 protein (Fig. 3F). The final purified protein was subsequently used for the following experiments. PAO proteins characterized so far are flavoproteins, able to bind via noncovalent bond(s) FAD molecule(s) that act as electron donors to molecular oxygen, necessary for PAO-oxidizing activity (CITATION). Thus, in silico analysis of the AtPAO3 protein showed that it contains at the N terminus of the protein a domain responsible for the binding of a FAD molecule. To test whether AtPAO3 protein is able to bind to a FAD molecule in vitro, we disrupted the noncovalent bonds through addition of 5% TCA to the purified protein, which was subsequently precipitated. Supernatant absorbance was measured and exhibited the characteristic two-curve spectrum, typical for FAD-containing proteins, with absorption maxima at 380 and 460 nm, indicating that AtPAO3 is in an oxidized state (Fig. 4 ). A similar spectrum was obtained without disrupting the bonds between the FAD and AtPAO3, while the slight differences observed are most probably due to the protein microenvironment that surrounds the FAD molecule, which alters its absorbance characteristics (Fig. 4). No significant differences were observed between the AtPAO3 and MBP:PAO3 absorbance, suggesting that MBP protein does not affect the absorbance features of protein (data not shown). Each mole of protein could adhere approximately 0.8 mol of FAD, suggesting a close to 1:1 molecular ratio for FAD:PAO3 protein. In some cases, the supernatant exhibited an absorbance peak at 280 nm, indicating contamination of the supernatant from the precipitated protein. [[FIGURE]] In plants, most characterized proteins encoded by PAO genes are responsible for the terminal catabolism of Spd and Spm. Only recently was the Arabidopsis gene AtPAO1 shown to encode for a FAD-binding PAO protein that exhibits a single step back-conversion activity, converting Spm to Spd (CITATION). Analysis of the substrate specificity of the protein purified in this work showed that AtPAO3 is able to oxidize both Spd and Spm, producing H2O2, whereas no oxidizing activity was found when using Put (Fig. 5A ). Both the crude bacterial lysate and the purified protein exhibited similar activities with respect to the oxidizing specificity (data not shown). Interestingly, Δ1-pyrroline was not a product of AtPAO3, as no yellowish product was observed after its reaction with o-aminobenzaldehyde, typical for most PAO enzymes that catalyze the terminal deamination of Spd and Spm. [[FIGURE]] The previous results prompted us to identify the reaction products of AtPAO3-oxidizing activity. To this end, an in vitro assay and HPLC were combined (Fig. 5B). Analysis of the reaction products revealed that both Spm (retention time, approximately 15 min) and Spd (retention time, approximately 10.9 min) are oxidized by AtPAO3, giving rise to Spd and Put, or Put alone, respectively, without any concomitant production of 1,3-diaminopropane (Fig. 5B). Production of Put from Spm could be detected after approximately 15 min in the in vitro assay using 2 μg of AtPAO3 protein, while when Spd was used as substrate, significantly higher amounts of Put at the same time points could be observed (Fig. 5B). These results reinforce the view that AtPAO3 encodes for an enzyme with PA-oxidizing activity, able to back-convert Spm and Spd to the final product Put in a two-step reaction producing H2O2 as end-product. The pH optimum for the oxidation of the substrates was found to be 7.5 (Fig. 5C), similar to AtPAO1 (pH = 8; CITATION) but different from that of ZmPAO (pH 6.5). Interestingly, the enzyme was quickly inactivated at lower pH values, and at pH > 9.5 or < 6.5, no significant activity was found (Fig. 5C). The pH dependence of the enzyme did not follow the bell-shaped dependency of AtPAO1, suggesting different ionization groups within the active site (CITATION; results herein). Interestingly, the mouse (Mus musculus) peroxisomal PAO exhibits similar pH dependence (CITATION). The optimum temperature was found to be 37°C, similar to the Homo sapiens peroxisomal PAO (CITATION), whereas at higher temperatures, the enzyme was quickly inactivated (Fig. 5C). Moreover, equimolar amounts of Spd and Put to Spm were produced via AtPAO3 oxidation activity (Fig. 5D). The enzyme exhibited a progressive inactivation with time, possibly due to end-product inhibition, either through H2O2 or Put (Fig. 5D). To further confirm the back-converting activity of AtPAO3, a radiometric method was employed using radiolabeled PAs as substrates, and the conversion efficiency to each product was estimated as a fraction of time (Fig. 6 ). Thus, 80% of the initial Spd was converted to Put within 1 h, while 65% of initial Spm was converted to Spd and Put at the same time point (Fig. 6; Spd and Spm, respectively). On the contrary, radiolabeled Put was not recognized as substrate by AtPAO3. [[FIGURE]] Because the known mammalian PAOs oxidize N1-acetyl derivatives with higher affinity than the nonacetylated ones (CITATION), the in vitro activity of AtPAO3 was determined not only using Spd and Spm as substrates, but also using N1-AcSpd, N8-AcSpd, and N1-AcSpm (Table I ). AtPAO3 was found to oxidize not only Spd (Km = 0.204 mm) and Spm (Km = 0.588 mm) but also N1-AcSpd (Km = 1 mm) and N1-AcSpm (Km = 2 mm), converting them to AcSpd and AcPut, respectively (Table I; data not shown). The substrate specificity was Spd > Spm > N1-AcSpd > N1-AcSpm (Table I), suggesting that AtPAO3 differs with respect to the substrate specificity from the functionally homologous mammalian enzymes. Kinetics in the presence/absence of specific inhibitors for the PAO3 enzyme Data are the means from a single representative experiment. In addition, the inhibition constants of two well-known PAO inhibitors, guazatine and aminoguanidine, were determined using Spd as substrate (CITATION; CITATION). Guazatine, the most potent inhibitor characterized so far for PAO enzymes, including AtPAO1 (CITATION), significantly inhibited AtPAO3 activity with a Ki of 0.028 μm (Table I). Aminoguanidine also inhibited PAO3 but with a higher Ki of 1.08 μm (Table I). In addition, Put, the end-product of PAO3 activity and N8-AcSpd, also inhibited the enzyme (Table I; Ki = 61.5 μm and Ki = 40.8 μm, respectively). Put similarly inhibited AtPAO3 when using Spm, N1-AcSpd, and N1-AcSpm as substrates (Ki = 60.1, 50.2, and 40.9 μm, respectively). In silico protein localization prediction software failed to identify AtPAO3 as a putative peroxisomal protein. However, AtPAO3 contains a peroxisomal targeting signal 1, consisting of a Ser, an Arg, and a Met residue (SRM sequence; amino acids 486–488) at the C-terminal end of the protein, which has been shown to target proteins to peroxisomes in plants (CITATION). To investigate the in vivo AtPAO3 localization, we fused AtPAO3 cDNA to either the C-terminal (35S:GFP:PAO3) or N-terminal (35S:PAO3:GFP) part of the GFP. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of the 35S:GFP:PAO3 in N. benthamiana leaves showed a green fluorescent pattern in small spots distributed throughout the cytoplasm of the epidermal cells (Fig. 7A ). In contrast, when 35S:PAO3:GFP construct was used, a diffuse fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm was found (Fig. 7B), suggesting that the fusion remained as a soluble protein in the cytosol. These results indicate that AtPAO3 has targeting information to small cytoplasmic organelles and that the sorting motifs are masked when GFP is fused to the C terminus. [[FIGURE]] To determine where AtPAO3 is localized, we performed a colocalization experiment using yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and Cherry markers of compartments that resembled the spots observed in 35S:GFP:PAO3 (d35S:YFP:SKL, d35S:mCherry:SKL for peroxisomal and d35S:mYFP for mitochondrial localization; SKL represents the motif Ser-Lys-Leu responsible for peroxisomal localization; CITATION; Fig. 6C). Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of the 35S:GFP:PAO3 in N. benthamiana leaves with simultaneous cotransformation of the d35S:mCherry:SKL (Fig. 7C, top), or the d35S:YFP:SKL (Fig. 7C, bottom) showed that the signals colocalized, suggesting that AtPAO3 is a peroxisomal protein (Fig. 7). On the contrary, 35S:GFP:PAO3 and d35S:mYFP did not colocalize (data not shown). Because peroxisomes are organelles involved in various stress responses (CITATION), we decided to monitor the abundance of AtPAO3 mRNA under various stress treatments. In addition, to gain a more comprehensive view of the regulation of PA catabolism and to compare to AtPAO3, we monitored the expression of the other members of the AtPAO gene family under the same conditions. Thus, the expression pattern of AtPAO1, AtPAO2, AtPAO3, AtPAO4, and AtPAO5 was followed after supplying 10-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings with various chemicals for 24 h (Fig. 8 ). Interestingly, AtPAO1 could not be detected either by RT-PCR or by northern blotting under the various treatments, consistent with the results obtained by CITATION. [[FIGURE]] Among the various treatments performed, abscisic acid (ABA) induced AtPAO2 and AtPAO3 mRNA accumulation 1 h posttreatment, while induction of AtPAO4 took longer (6 h). On the other hand, AtPAO5 mRNA abundance was slightly reduced upon ABA treatment. Interestingly, AtPAO3 mRNA returned to basal levels after 24 h in ABA-treated plants (Fig. 8, ABA). JA-treated seedlings showed a marked and transient increase in AtPAO3 mRNA, constantly accumulated up to 6 h to later decrease at 24 h, while AtPAO2 mRNA accumulated only 1 h posttreatment. Treatment with JA did not provoke any significant increase of AtPAO4 or AtPAO5 mRNAs at all time points examined (Fig. 8; JA). SA treatment clearly induced AtPAO3 and AtPAO4 mRNA accumulation 6 h posttreatment, while AtPAO2 showed a slight increase 24 h posttreatment. Interestingly, AtPAO5 significantly accumulated after 24 h, at 0.1 mm SA (Fig. 8, SA). AtPAO2, AtPAO3, and AtPAO4 mRNA rapidly accumulated in wounded plants 1 h after wounding and returned to almost basal levels 6 h thereafter. In addition, seedlings treated with flagellin 22, a pathogen elicitor that activates the plant basal defense, exhibited AtPAO2 and AtPAO3 induction after the 6-h time point, with constant increase up to 24 h, while AtPAO4 was induced 1 h posttreatment returning to basal levels 24 h thereafter (Fig. 8, flagellin). On the other hand, AtPAO5 mRNA abundance showed a significant decrease in seedlings treated with flagellin.
!~MM~! All chemicals were purchased from Sigma unless stated otherwise, while radiolabeled PAs were purchased from Amersham. For the multiple protein alignment and the phylogenetic tree construction, the Expasy Database tools were used (http://au.expasy.org/tools/). For motif and domain scan, the Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool database was used (http://smart.embl.de). The cDNA encoding for the AtPAO3 (clone no. U21196) was provided by the ABRC stock center (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia-0 were surface sterilized and sown in 24-well (10 seeds per well) tissue culture clusters, containing 1 mL/well of sterile Murashige and Skoog medium (Murashige and Skoog salts; Duchefa) supplemented with 0.5% Suc and grown with shaking (150 rpm) in a culture room under 16-h-d (26°C)/8-h night (22°C) diurnal cycles. Fresh medium, 500 μL/well, was added 9 d after sowing, and experiments were conducted 1 d later. Prior to treatment initiation, the medium remaining in the wells was removed and 1 mL of fresh medium with the different compounds tested was added. For the AtPAO3 cDNA cloning into vector pDONR207, the primer pairs GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTGATGGAGTCCGGAGGCAAC (PAO3-FOR) and GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTATTACATACGGGAGATCAGAAG (PAO3-REV) were used, and inserts were cloned into the pDEST-TH1 (CITATION) and pGWB6 (GFP:PAO3) vectors using the GATEWAY recombination system (Invitrogen). To eliminate the stop codon of PAO3 cDNA, the PAO3-REV-no stop primer GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTATTACATACGGGAGATCAGCG was used in combination with PAO3-FOR, and AtPAO3 was cloned into a second pDONR207 vector and further transferred into the pGWB5 (PAO3:GFP) vector using the GATEWAY recombination system. The vector pDEST-TH1 was used for protein expression, whereas vectors pGWB6 and pGWB5 correspond to the N-terminal and C-terminal GFP binary fusion vectors, respectively. All vectors prepared were direct sequenced. PCR amplifications were performed using a thermal PTC-200 PCR cycler and the Pfu (Promega) or Taq (Minotech) polymerase following standard PCR protocols. Escherichia coli strain BL21 cells were transformed with standard transformation protocols and were induced for protein expression by adding 0.05 to 1 mm IPTG in the Luria Nutrient Broth culture media supplemented with 100 μg mL−1 ampicillin and 2 g L−1 Glc after reaching OD600 = 0.5. The cells were harvested at 2,500g for 20 min at RT and frozen overnight at −80°C. Cells were dissolved in 10 mL of MBP buffer (20 mm Tris, pH 7.4, 400 mm NaCl, and 1 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm PMSF) and lysed at 4°C in a sonicator using four cycles of 15 to 20 s. Cell debris (pellet fraction) was removed after a centrifugation step at 10,000g at 4°C, and supernatant was filtrated using Miracloth and passed through an amylose resin (Biolabs) at 4°C. Protein was eluted using MBP buffer supplemented with 20 mm maltose, and collected fractions were electrophoretically resolved. Protein fusion was digested using the protease Xa factor as described by the manufacturer (Biolabs). The Xa factor was removed using a hydroxyapatite column as described by the manufacturer (Biolabs). In vitro activity was determined using four different assays. To determine directly the H2O2 production, a modified method of luminol measurement was used. Thus, 2 μg of purified protein were incubated in a 690-μL H2O2 lumination buffer (10 mm Tris, pH 7.0, 1 mm CaCl2, 0.1 mm KCl) supplemented with 100 μL 2.5 mg mL−1 luminol, 10 μL of 0.1 unit mL−1 peroxidase, and 1 to 10 mm final concentration of Put 2HCl, Spd 3HCl, or Spm 4HCl. Counts were measured in a scintillation counter (Beckman) for 10 min, and values were taken in the linear part of the assay. For determination of the kinetic parameters, the method of the oxidation of 4-aminopterine was used (CITATION). Analysis of AtPAO3 oxidation products was performed by incubating saturating amounts of substrate with 4 μg of purified protein, in a final volume of 200 μL, buffered with 100 mm Tris, pH 7.5. Reaction was stopped by the addition of equal volume of 5% (v/v) perchloric acid. The samples were centrifuged for 20 min at 12,000g at 4°C, the supernatant was derivatized, and PAs were determined as previously described, using an HP 1100 High Performance Liquid Chromatographer (Hewlett-Packard; CITATION). Additionally, reaction products were estimated using radiolabeled Spm by a modification of the radiometric method of CITATION, using [1,4-14C]Put, [1,4-14C]Spd, [1,4-14C]Spm (Amersham; specific activities, 4.37 GBq mmol−1) as labeled substrates and 4 μg of AtPAO3 enzyme. The assay mixture contained 0.2 mL of Tris, pH 7.5, 1 mm unlabeled Put, Spd, and Spm and 3.7 KBq of [1,4-14C]Put, [1,4-14C]Spd, [1,4-14C]Spm. After incubation on a shaker at 37°C for 60 min, the reaction was terminated by adding 150 μL of saturated sodium carbonate. Products were separated on a thin layer chromatography plate using as a mobile phase Chlorophorm/Triethylamine 4:1 (v/v). The plate was dried out for 10 min at 60°C, the radioactivity was estimated after scraping off the spots from the plate, and the powder from each spot was measured using a scintillation counter (Beckman). To identify the retention factor of each spot, 1 mm standards of PAs were also used and were visualized under UV light following dansylation as described by CITATION. Additionally, radiolabeled products were dansylated to maintain the Rr accuracy. Standard calibration curves for N1-AcSpm, N1-AcSpd, and N8-AcSpd were additionally prepared. The Δ1-aminopyrroline production was assayed by using the o-aminobenzaldehyde method and the formation of a yellowish product, as described in CITATION. Proteins were extracted and treated as described in CITATION. Total protein extracts were electrophoretically resolved using SDS-PAGE, transferred to membranes, and hybridized against an anti-MBP polyclonal antibody. Total RNA was extracted with the optimized hot-phenol method according to CITATION, transferred to nylon membranes, and hybridized against 32P-labeled probes. All hybridizations were performed at 67°C and the appropriate controls were used, including RNA ladders, for the correct size of each transcript to be estimated. Templates for probes were obtained using the following primers and standard PCR conditions: for PAO1, GGTAGTGGTGAAGACAGAGG (PAO1-FOR) and AGCTTGTGCCTGAGATAAA (PAO1-REV); PAO2, ATGGAGTCCAGGAAAACTC (PAO2-FOR) and GAGACGAGATATAAGAAG (PAO2-REV); PAO3, GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTGATGGAGTCCGGAGGCAAC (PAO3-FOR) and GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTATTACATACGGGAGATCAGAAG (PAO3-REV); PAO4, GGTCACCAAACCCTTCATC (PAO4-FOR) and TTGAGCAAACGATGGAGAAG (PAO4-REV); PAO5 ATGGCGAAGAAAGCAAGA (PAO5-FOR) and AAAATTACATTTGTAAT (PAO5-REV). For semiquantitative RT-PCR reactions, total mRNA from leaves and roots was extracted and subjected to DNase I RNase-free treatment (Invitrogen) for 45 min at 37°C. After checking the RNA in agarose gel, the samples were subjected to RT-PCR reactions using polyT as primer and the Super RT enzyme according to the manufacturer's instructions (HT Biotechnology). The samples were normalized according to actin and the primers TTGAGCACATTCTGGAAGAGGTG (forward PAO3) and ACACTTTGCCGAGATGGTTTCAG (reverse PAO3) were used for AtPAO3-specific 30 cycle (exponential phase) quantitative RT-PCR reactions. Reactions with samples treated with DNase I but not subjected to RT were also used as negative controls. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 cells were transformed with the appropriate binary vectors using the freeze-thaw method and PCR confirmed. A. tumefaciens positive clones were grown in Luria-Bertani until OD600 = 0.6 and were pelleted after a centrifugation step at 3,000g for 20 min. Cells were resuspended in MMA (Murashige and Skoog salts, 10 mm MES, pH 5.7, 0.2 mm acetosyringone, 3% Suc) until OD600 = 0.5, incubated at RT for 1 h, and infiltrated in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, using a 1-mL syringe. Leaves were analyzed after 48 h using a Leica TCS-NT confocal microscope, using the 40× objective. The excitation/emission wavelength was 480/508 nm for GFP, 513/527 nm for YFP, and 587/610 nm for mCherry. The YFP-PRX (PRX: peroxisomal) and mCherry-PRX constructs were purchased from the ABRC Stock Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Colocalization was performed by mixing the MMA-resuspended A. tumefaciens GFP:PAO3 with A. tumefaciens YFP-PRX or mCherry-PRX in a ratio 1.2:1 (v/v). Merge of the images was performed using the Leica Confocal software version 2.61. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_121373 (AtPAO1), AF364952 (AtPAO2), NM_115767 (AtPAO3), AF364953 (AtPAO4), and AK118203 (AtPAO5). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Expression of AtPAO3 in leaves and roots. cDNAs were equalized according to actin.
