!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana yellow variegated2 (var2) mutant is variegated due to lack of a chloroplast FtsH-like metalloprotease (FtsH2/VAR2). We have generated suppressors of var2 variegation to gain insight into factors and pathways that interact with VAR2 during chloroplast biogenesis. Here, we describe two such suppressors. Suppression of variegation in the first line, TAG-FN, was caused by disruption of the nuclear gene (SUPPRESSOR OF VARIEGATION1 [SVR1]) for a chloroplast-localized homolog of pseudouridine (Ψ) synthase, which isomerizes uridine to Ψ in noncoding RNAs. svr1 single mutants were epistatic to var2, and they displayed a phenotypic syndrome that included defects in chloroplast rRNA processing, reduced chloroplast translation, reduced chloroplast protein accumulation, and elevated chloroplast mRNA levels. In the second line (TAG-IE), suppression of variegation was caused by a lesion in SVR2, the gene for the ClpR1 subunit of the chloroplast ClpP/R protease. Like svr1, svr2 was epistatic to var2, and clpR1 mutants had a phenotype that resembled svr1. We propose that an impairment of chloroplast translation in TAG-FN and TAG-IE decreased the demand for VAR2 activity during chloroplast biogenesis and that this resulted in the suppression of var2 variegation. Consistent with this hypothesis, var2 variegation was repressed by chemical inhibitors of chloroplast translation. In planta mutagenesis revealed that SVR1 not only played a role in uridine isomerization but that its physical presence was necessary for proper chloroplast rRNA processing. Our data indicate that defects in chloroplast rRNA processing are a common, but not universal, molecular phenotype associated with suppression of var2 variegation.
!~RES~! We previously reported the isolation of var2 suppressors using ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis (CITATION). Here, we used T-DNA activation tagging (CITATION) as an alternative mutagenesis approach. This was accomplished by transforming plasmid pSKI015 (activation tagging vector) into var2-5, a weak var2 allele (CITATION). We observed a number of lines in which the T1 and/or T2 generations had altered variegation phenotypes due to gain-of-function or loss-of-function mutations. Figures 1A and 1B show a line (designated TAG-FN) in which the T1 plant was variegated but the T2 plants were variegated or all green in an ∼3:1 ratio (variegated:nonvariegated). This indicated that suppression of variegation in this line was due to a recessive (loss-of-function) mutation. We named this locus SVR1; the mutant allele in TAG-FN was designated svr1-1. TAG-FN plants grew somewhat more slowly than wild-type plants (Figure 1A), but they attained a normal stature at flowering. Mature leaves of the TAG-FN plants had normal chlorophyll concentrations, chlorophyll a/b ratios (Figures 1C and 1D), and chloroplast anatomies (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). These observations suggested that chloroplast biogenesis was not grossly altered in the TAG-FN suppressor line. [[FIGURE]] To identify the suppressor gene in TAG-FN, we performed cosegregation analysis to establish the linkage between the T-DNA insert(s) and the mutant phenotype. DNA gel blot analyses revealed that a 6.5-kb HindIII band cosegregated with the suppression-of-variegation phenotype (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). This band was isolated by plasmid rescue, and the rescued plasmid was sequenced. We recovered a 92-bp Arabidopsis genomic sequence flanking the T-DNA right border in the rescued plasmid that corresponded to a portion of intron 6 of At2g39140 on chromosome 2. This suggested that At2g39140 was SVR1. At2g39140 contains nine exons and eight introns (Figure 2A ) and has been annotated as the gene for a 410–amino acid protein (45.1 kD) that bears resemblance to members of the E. coli pseudouridine synthase family of enzymes. [[FIGURE]] Figure 2B shows that TAG-FN (var2-5/var2-5 svr1-1/svr1-1) contained two forms of SVR1 mRNAs. The sizes of these transcripts were smaller than the mature-sized mRNAs in the wild type and var2-5 (i.e., truncated SVR1-1 transcripts were produced in TAG-FN). This conclusion was confirmed by RT-PCR analyses showing that full-length SVR1 transcripts did not accumulate in TAG-FN (Figure 2C). It is possible, therefore, that svr1-1 translation products retained function (at least in part) and that svr1-1 was a knockdown, rather than a knockout, allele. The subsequent isolation of a more severe SVR1 allele (svr1-2; described in Figure 5 below) lent support to this conclusion. Complementation tests were performed to confirm that suppression of var2 variegation in TAG-FN was due to the disruption of SVR1 expression. Because TAG-FN was homozygous recessive at the SVR1 and VAR2 loci (svr1-1/svr1-1 var2-5/var2-5), we reasoned that overexpression of a wild-type copy of SVR1 in TAG-FN might mask the svr1 defect, thus restoring a variegation phenotype. To test this hypothesis, we transformed TAG-FN with an overexpression construct that contained a full-length SVR1 cDNA driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Consistent with our hypothesis, the transgenic plants were variegated (Figures 3A and 3B ). This was likely a consequence of SVR1 overexpression, inasmuch as the transformants had dramatically increased SVR1 transcript levels (Figure 3C). These data support the notion that a defect in SVR1 was responsible for the suppression of var2-5 variegation in the TAG-FN double mutants. [[FIGURE]] To obtain svr1-1 single mutants (i.e., svr1-1/ svr1-1 VAR2/VAR2 seedlings), we backcrossed TAG-FN to wild-type Columbia and selfed the F1; the F2 were genotyped using derived cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence primers that detected mutant var2-5 sequences (CITATION). Figure 4A shows that svr1-1 single mutants were not variegated and that they resembled TAG-FN in morphology and growth habit. This indicated that svr1-1 was epistatic to var2-5. [[FIGURE]] The var2-5 allele contains a missense mutation in the AAA cassette domain of the protein (CITATION). It is a leaky allele and accumulates VAR2 mRNA and protein; its variegation phenotype is less severe than that of var2-4, a putative null allele (CITATION) (Figures 4A and 4B). var2-4 lacks detectable VAR2 mRNA and protein due to a splice site mutation. To examine the allele specificity of svr1-1–mediated variegation suppression, we crossed svr1-1 with var2-4. Figure 4A shows that the double mutants (svr1-1/svr1-1 var2-4/var2-4) were not variegated and that they resembled TAG-FN. This indicated that the mechanism of svr1-1 suppression was not allele-specific and, in addition, that suppression of variegation did not require the presence of the VAR2 protein. Because we could not rule out the possibility that svr1 was a leaky allele, we sought to identify a true knockout allele of this gene in the Salk collection of T-DNA insertion mutants (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress; CITATION). Several lines were identified, one of which (Salk_013085) had an insertion in the first exon of the gene (Figure 5A ). Homozygous plants of this line (designated svr1-2) were yellow-green and significantly reduced in size compared with wild-type and svr1-1 plants (Figure 5B). The leaves of svr1-2 also remained pale green throughout their development. [[FIGURE]] Supplemental Figure 3B online shows that svr1-2 was able to suppress the variegation phenotypes of var2-5 (leaky allele) and var2-4 (null allele); both double mutants resembled svr1-2 single mutants. This confirmed (1) that loss-of-function mutations in SVR1 were epistatic to var2 and (2) that interactions between SVR1 and VAR2 proteins were not required for the suppression of var2 variegation phenotypes. Taken together, the observations in Figure 5 and Supplemental Figure 3B online indicated that svr1-2 was a more severe allele than svr1-1. Consistent with this idea, SVR1 transcripts could not be detected in this line by RNA gel blot analysis (data not shown). This indicated that svr1-2 was a molecular null allele. As mentioned earlier, At2g39140 has been annotated as a member of the Arabidopsis pseudouridine synthase gene family. Ψ is the most abundant modified nucleotide in noncoding RNA species, including rRNAs, tRNAs, small nuclear RNAs, and small nucleolar RNAs; it is not normally found in mRNAs (CITATION; CITATION). The isomerization of uridine to Ψ is catalyzed by pseudouridine synthase (CITATION). Phylogenetic analyses were undertaken as a first step toward determining whether SVR1 was a bona fide pseudouridine synthase. Pseudouridine synthases are best characterized in E. coli, in which there are 11 family members. These enzymes mediate uridine-to-Ψ isomerization in tRNAs (designated Tru genes) and rRNAs (designated Rlu genes, for ribosomal 50S rRNAs, and Rsu genes, for ribosomal 30S rRNAs) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). E. coli pseudouridine synthases diverge widely in amino acid sequence, yet they fold into similar structures (CITATION). They also share a conserved nine–amino acid motif at the active site that includes a universally conserved Asp residue. This Asp is perfectly conserved not only among E. coli pseudouridine synthases but also among all other pseudouridine synthases identified to date, ranging from bacteria to yeast to humans (CITATION). The frequency of amino acids within this motif in pseudouridine synthases from diverse sources is illustrated in Figure 6B . [[FIGURE]] To determine the complement of pseudouridine synthases in Arabidopsis, we searched the databases for sequences with similarity to each of the 11 E. coli proteins. Twenty-two homologous sequences were found. Of these, 17 contained the active site motif with the perfectly conserved Asp; these included SVR1. The phylogenetic relatedness of the E. coli, Arabidopsis, and Chlamydomonas pseudouridine synthases is illustrated in Figure 6A. The tree is complex but notable for the relative lack of phylogenetic pairs that have arisen as a consequence of duplications that occurred during the evolution of the Arabidopsis genome, as seen in many Arabidopsis gene families, including FtsH (CITATION). On the basis of our phylogenetic analyses, we concluded that SVR1 bore all of the hallmarks of a true pseudouridine synthase. SVR1 was predicted to be plastid-localized based on the presence of a putative transit peptide of 35 amino acids. To confirm this localization, we examined the intracellular location of a transiently expressed P35S:SVR1:GFP (for green fluorescent protein) fusion construct in protoplasts isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis leaves; the control was a P35S:GFP fusion construct. Fusion protein expression was monitored by confocal microscopy. Figures 7A to 7C show control protoplasts that were transformed with GFP alone: green fluorescence was present in the cytoplasm (Figure 7A) but was not associated with the chloroplast (as shown by chlorophyll autofluorescence; Figure 7B); consistent with this apparent lack of congruity, the two fluorescence images did not merge (Figure 7C). By contrast, green fluorescence from the SVR1:GFP fusion protein (Figure 7D) matched the pattern of chlorophyll autofluorescence (Figure 7E); this was confirmed by the merging of the two images (Figure 7F). These data indicated that SVR1 was a chloroplast protein. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether SVR1 is expressed in plastid types other than chloroplasts, we conducted RNA gel blot analyses using RNAs from various tissue types (Figure 7G). As anticipated, SVR1 was highly expressed in chloroplast-containing tissues; we suspect that floral expression was from the sepals. SVR1 mRNAs also accumulated in amyloplast-containing root tissues but not in etioplast-containing tissues of dark-grown seedlings. We concluded that SVR1 was important for chloroplast development and maintenance but that it likely functioned in other plastid types as well. rRNAs are the most abundant RNA species in plant cells, and plastid rRNAs (23S, 16S, 5S, and 4.5S) and cytosolic rRNAs (25S, 18S, 5.8S, and 5S) can be easily observed on ethidium bromide–stained, denaturing agarose gels (CITATION; CITATION). Casual observation of RNA gels such as those in Figures 2 and 3 revealed that chloroplast rRNA metabolism was likely affected in the TAG-FN suppressor line, inasmuch as the abundant 1.2- and 1.0-kb 23S rRNA species were reduced in amount compared with the wild type and var2-5 (Figure 2). To examine the patterns of chloroplast rRNA accumulation in TAG-FN in greater detail, we conducted RNA gel blot analyses using gene-specific probes. The genes for chloroplast rRNAs (23S, 16S, 5S, and 4.5S) are located in the large inverted repeat region of land plant chloroplast genomes, where they form part of the rrn operon (Figure 8A ). This operon, which also includes two tRNA genes, is transcribed as a large polycistronic RNA that is processed by endoribonucleases and exoribonucleases to yield the mature rRNA and tRNA species (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Figure 8B shows that there was a dramatic shift in the stoichiometry of rRNAs complementary to the 23S probe in TAG-FN compared with the wild type, var2-5, and the TAG-FN complementation line. This shift was due to a marked enhancement in levels of the three largest 23S rRNAs (the 3.2-kb precursor and the 2.9- and 2.4-kb mature rRNA species) and to a sharp decline in levels of the four smaller 23S rRNA species (the 1.7-kb processing intermediate and the mature 0.5-, 1.0-, and 1.2-kb rRNA species). Maturation of the 4.5S, 5S, and 16S rRNAs was also perturbed in TAG-FN: levels of the mature rRNAs were decreased, while those of the precursor rRNAs were increased. Cytosolic 18S rRNA levels were normal in all plants, suggesting that the accumulation of cytosolic rRNAs was not affected in the mutants. Considered together, the data in Figure 8B indicated that TAG-FN was impaired in chloroplast rRNA processing and that this defect was rescued in the TAG-FN complementation line. This supported the idea that defects in chloroplast rRNA processing can be mediated by svr1-1. This was confirmed by examining profiles of chloroplast rRNA accumulation in the svr1-1 and svr1-2 single mutants. Supplemental Figure 3A online shows that these profiles were qualitatively the same as those in TAG-FN (Figure 8B) but that there were quantitative differences in rRNA accumulation between svr1-1 and svr1-2. In particular, svr1-2 had enhanced accumulation of the three largest 23S rRNAs and of the 16S and 4.5S rRNA precursors as well as compensating decreases in the levels of the four smaller 23S rRNAs and of the mature 16S and 4.5S rRNAs. These observations were consistent with the notion that svr1-2 was a more severe allele than svr1-1. One question that arose was whether the alterations in plastid rRNA processing were indicative of a more global defect in RNA metabolism in svr1 plants. Were patterns of mRNA accumulation affected? To address this question, we performed RNA gel blot analyses using representative nuclear and plastid genes as probes. These included rbcL (encoding the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase [Rubisco] large subunit; LS), psbA (encoding the D1 protein of PSII), psaA (encoding the PsaA protein of PSI), atpA (encoding the α-subunit protein of the proton ATP synthase), and petB (encoding cytochrome f of the cytochrome b6f complex). Two nuclear genes for plastid proteins served as controls: RbcS (encoding the Rubisco small subunit) and Lhcb2 (encoding the major light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b binding protein of PSII). Figure 9A shows that the transcript profiles of the two nuclear genes were quantitatively and qualitatively similar in the wild type, var2-5, TAG-FN, and the TAG-FN complementation line. The patterns of mRNA accumulation were also qualitatively similar for each of the plastid genes. This indicated that mRNA processing per se was not likely altered in TAG-FN, since genes that were transcribed as polycistronic mRNAs, then processed to their mature forms (such as atpA and petB), had qualitatively similar mRNA accumulation profiles. It was notable, however, that plastid mRNA levels were increased in TAG-FN by about twofold, as estimated by comparing the amount of rbcL mRNA in TAG-FN to a titration series of rbcL mRNA accumulation in wild-type plants (Figure 9B). These increases were mediated by svr1-1, inasmuch as they were reversed in the TAG-FN complementation line. Considered together, the data in Figure 9 suggested that SVR1 played a global role in plastid mRNA accumulation, perhaps by affecting rates of transcription and/or turnover. [[FIGURE]] We were next interested in determining whether a lack of SVR1 affected chloroplast protein accumulation. For these experiments, we conducted immunoblot studies (Figure 10 ) on leaf proteins from the wild type, var2-5, TAG-FN, svr1-1, and svr1-2 using antibodies against representative photosynthetic proteins: D1, PsbP, and Lhcb2 (all from PSII); PsaF (from PSI); the Rieske Fe-S protein (from the cytochrome b6f complex); ATPα (the α-subunit of the proton ATPase); and LS. We also probed the blots with antibodies against VAR2 and FtsH1. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the nearly normal chlorophyll levels and chlorophyll a/b ratios in TAG-FN and var2-5 (Figures 1C and 1D), the data in Figure 10 showed that chloroplast protein levels were very similar in var2-5, TAG-FN, and svr1-1. Exceptions were VAR2 and FtsH1, which were dramatically reduced in amount in var2-5 and TAG-FN. This was as expected for var2-5: FtsH1, FtsH2 (VAR2), FtsH5, and FtsH8 interact to form oligomeric complexes in the thylakoid membrane, and when one of these proteins is produced in excess, it is degraded to match the abundance of the others (CITATION, CITATION). The fact that VAR2 and FtsH1 were coordinately reduced in amount in TAG-FN indicated that suppression of var2 variegation in this line was not due to an enhancement of VAR2 and/or of FtsH1 protein abundance. In contrast with svr1-1, some of the plastid proteins in Figure 10 were markedly reduced in amount. For instance, we consistently observed reductions of ∼50% in D1, PsaF, the Rieske Fe-S protein, ATPα, and LS. This suggested that SVR1 was capable of influencing chloroplast protein accumulation. The data in Figures 9 and 10 were consistent with the idea that defects in SVR1 resulted in higher than normal chloroplast mRNA levels but decreased abundance of at least some chloroplast proteins. This suggested that translation was impaired in the svr1 mutants. This might not be unexpected, since chloroplast rRNA processing defects of the sort documented for svr1 (Figure 8; see Supplemental Figure 3 online) have previously been correlated with defects in plastid ribosome assembly and translation (CITATION; CITATION). To test this hypothesis, we pulse-labeled wild-type and svr1-2 plants with [35S]Met for 20 min. In this system, the LS is the most abundant labeled protein in the soluble fraction and the D1 protein of PSII is the most abundant labeled protein in the membrane fraction (CITATION; CITATION). Figures 11A and 11B show that the amounts of labeled LS and D1 that accumulate during the pulse were markedly reduced in svr1-2. This was consistent with the notion that chloroplast translation was reduced in svr1-2. [[FIGURE]] To test whether translation defects were able to suppress var2 variegation, we treated var2-4 (a null allele) with chemical inhibitors of chloroplast translation, including chloramphenicol, which prevents the binding of amino acyl–tRNA to the A site on the 50S subunit of 70S ribosomes (CITATION), and spectinomycin, which prevents translocation of the peptidyl-tRNA from the A site to the P site on the 30S subunit of 70S ribosomes (CITATION). We found that high concentrations of these inhibitors were lethal but that sublethal concentrations were able to suppress the variegation phenotype of var2-4 (Figure 11C). As mentioned earlier, pseudouridine synthases contain a short stretch of nine amino acids in their active sites that includes a perfectly conserved Asp residue (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 6B). Mutations of this residue abolish the ability of pseudouridine synthase to isomerize uridine to Ψ in E. coli (CITATION). This Asp corresponds to amino acid 274 of the SVR1 gene product. We wanted to take advantage of our molecular null allele (svr1-2) to ask whether in vitro mutagenized copies of SVR1 that contained substitutions of this residue could complement the svr1-2 defect, thus normalizing the mutant phenotype. Figure 12A shows results from a representative experiment in which Asp-274 was mutagenized in vitro to Asn (D274N), a substitution of a charged residue with a similarly sized, uncharged residue. The mutant form of SVR1 was transformed into svr1-2 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter; the transformants were designated P35S:SVR1(D274N). Transformation of svr1-2 with a wild-type SVR1 cDNA served as a control (transformants were designated P35S:SVR1). Figure 12A shows that both sets of transgenic plants resembled the wild type (i.e., both constructs were able to rescue svr1-2). This correlated with high levels of mRNA expression from both transgenes (Figure 12B). Figure 12B further shows that the 23S rRNA processing defects in svr1-2 were reversed in the overexpressors. This is consistent with our earlier data showing that SVR1 is necessary for normal chloroplast rRNA processing. [[FIGURE]] Figure 3 shows that overexpression of wild-type SVR1 was able to restore a variegated phenotype to the TAG-FN suppression line. To test whether the active site Asp-274 was necessary for this restoration, we transformed TAG-FN with the D274N construct. Figure 12C shows that the transformants were variegated. This suggested that D274N, like wild-type SVR1, was able to complement the svr1-1 defect in TAG-FN. Also like the TAG-FN lines in which wild-type SVR1 was overexpressed (Figure 8B), the 23S rRNA-processing defect in TAG-FN was normalized in the D274N overexpression lines (Figure 12D). This indicated that Asp-274, which is required for the isomerization of uridine to Ψ, was not required for plastid rRNA processing. However, plastid rRNA processing appeared to require the presence of the SVR1 protein per se (Figure 12B). During the course of our var2 suppressor screens, we identified a T-DNA–tagged line (designated TAG-IE) with a chloroplast rRNA processing defect similar to that of svr1 (Figure 13E ). TAG-IE plants were smaller than normal and had a pronounced virescent phenotype, with newly emerged leaves having a bright yellow coloration (Figure 13A). We found that TAG-IE suppressed var2 in a recessive manner and that the TAG-IE suppressor phenotype cosegregated with a complex T-DNA structure (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). DNA gel blot analyses revealed that this structure was likely composed of multiple rearranged T-DNAs. We named the suppressor locus SVR2 and the mutant allele in TAG-IE svr2-1. Homozygous svr2-1 plants had the same virescent phenotype as TAG-IE, indicating that svr2-1 was epistatic to var2-5 in TAG-IE. [[FIGURE]] Due to the complex nature of the T-DNA insertion in svr2-1, we failed to isolate the gene via plasmid rescue and thus turned to map-based cloning procedures. Bulked segregant analysis of a mapping population obtained by crossing TAG-IE with Landsberg erecta showed that svr2-1 was genetically linked to molecular markers ciw1 and nga80 on chromosome 1. Using a candidate gene approach, we noted that this region of chromosome 1 contained genes for a number of putative and identified plastid proteins, including At1g49970, the gene for the ClpR1 subunit of the chloroplast Clp protease complex. It has been suggested that Clp protease core complexes (325 to 350 kD), which are composed of ClpP/R/S subunits (CITATION), are involved in general protein turnover in plastids (CITATION; CITATION). We focused our attention on ClpR1 because previously described clpR1-1 and clpR1-2 mutants have a virescent phenotype similar to that of svr2-1 (CITATION). To test whether svr2-1 defined the gene for ClpR1, we performed allelism tests between svr2-1 and clpR1-2, a T-DNA insertion allele (Salk_088407) (CITATION). We found that clpR1-2 and svr2-1 failed to complement one another, suggesting that they were allelic. To confirm this hypothesis, we examined whether the ClpR1 gene in TAG-IE contained a T-DNA structure. This was accomplished by PCR analysis of genomic DNA from TAG-IE using three pairs of primers that spanned the Arabidopsis ClpR1 gene (Figure 13B). Figure 13C shows that the F2 and R2 primer pair failed to amplify a genomic DNA fragment, consistent with the idea that an insertion resided between these two primers. We also failed to detect a ClpR1 transcript in TAG-IE via RT-PCR using ClpR1 primers that would have amplified the entire gene (Figure 13D). This indicated that the clpR1 allele in TAG-IE was likely a molecular null. Considered together, the data in Figure 13 supported the idea that SVR2 encoded ClpR1. Molecular characterization of clpR1-1 (a null allele) has been performed in the Chory laboratory (CITATION). Their studies showed that this mutant has many similarities to svr1. First, it accumulates higher molecular weight forms of chloroplast 23S and 4.5S rRNAs, suggesting that it is impaired in chloroplast rRNA processing. Second, it has normal levels of mRNA from several representative plastid genes but reduced protein accumulation. To explain these findings, CITATION suggested that chloroplast rRNA maturation and translation are linked and that chloroplast translation is inhibited in clpR1-1. Again, this is similar to our conclusions regarding svr1-2. The question arose whether defects in plastid rRNA processing were universally associated with the suppression of var2 variegation. To address this question, we examined chloroplast 23S rRNA profiles in various suppressors of var2 we had generated (see Methods); the suppressors described below were all recessive. Supplemental Figure 5 online shows that three suppressors had profiles that resemble the wild type (and var2-5): TAG-11, ems2505, and ems2544. By contrast, other suppressor lines had 23S rRNA processing defects similar to those in TAG-FN, svr1-2, and TAG-IE. These included clpC1, a mutant that lacks the ClpC1 chaperone, which could suppress var2 variegation at early stages of seedling development (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). We concluded that not all var2 suppressors had defects in chloroplast rRNA processing.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study are in the Columbia ecotype background. They were grown at 22°C under continuous light of ∼100 μmol·m−2·s−1. The mutant var2-4 and var2-5 alleles have been described (CITATION). Suppressor lines included TAG-FN (this study), TAG-IE (this study), TAG-11 (X. Liu, F. Yu, and S. Rodermel, unpublished data), all obtained by activation tagging (below); and ems2505 (S. Park and S. Rodermel, unpublished data) and ems2544 (CITATION), both obtained by ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis. svr1-2 was identified from a Salk line (Salk_013085); a T-DNA insertion allele of svr2 was also obtained from a Salk line (Salk_088407) (CITATION). The clpC1 mutant was described by CITATION. In some experiments, var2-4 seeds were grown on Murashige and Skoog plates in the presence or absence of inhibitors of chloroplast translation (10 mM chloramphenicol or 1 mg/L spectinomycin) under the conditions described above. The var2-5 allele was used for the activation tagging experiments. An Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain containing the activation tagging vector pSKI015 was kindly provided by Joanne Chory at the Salk Institute. Bolting Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip method (CITATION). T1 plants were germinated on soil, and transgenic plants were selected by spraying with a 1:2000 dilution of Finale (AgrEvo), which contains 5.78% (w/v) ammonium glufosinate. The T1 plants were self-fertilized, and analyses were performed on T2 and subsequent generation plants. The suppressor gene in TAG-IE was mapped by bulked segregation analysis (CITATION) using a pool of 112 F2 seedlings from a cross between TAG-IE and Landsberg erecta. The gene was fine-mapped using sets of codominant simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION). The suppressor gene resides between SSLP markers ciw1 and nga280, described by CITATION. Three pairs of PCR primers were used for confirmation of the site of T-DNA insertion in the suppressor gene (F1 and R1, F2 and R2, and F3 and R3); these are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. PCR primers MRO11F and MRO11R were used as an internal PCR control (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Full-length protein sequences for 17 pseudouridine synthases from Arabidopsis, 11 pseudouridine synthases from Escherichia coli, and the Maa2 pseudouridine synthase from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii were obtained from the National Center for Biotechnology Information GenBank. The sequences were aligned with ClustalX (see alignment in Supplemental Data Set 1 online), and a phylogenetic tree was constructed using default settings of MEGA 2.1 (CITATION). Bootstrap analysis was performed using 1000 trials. To complement the TAG-FN mutant, a full-length At2g39140 (SVR1) cDNA was amplified by Plantium pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) using primers FNCF and FNCR (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The PCR product was digested with SacI and cloned into the SacI site of pBluescript KS+. The resulting construct was sequenced to confirm the SVR1 sequence. The SacI fragment was then transferred into a modified pBI121 plasmid (CITATION), and the resulting construct was transformed into Agrobacterium by electroporation. Arabidopsis transformation was performed as described above (CITATION). To generate a GFP-tagged SVR1 fusion protein (SVR1:GFP) for transient expression in protoplasts, At2g39140 (SVR1) cDNA was amplified using primers FNCBF and FNGFPR (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned into vector pTF486 at the BamHI and NcoI sites, creating a C-terminal GFP fusion. Transcription is driven by the CaMV 35S promoter (P35S) in this vector. Protoplasts from wild-type Arabidopsis leaves were isolated and transiently transformed with the P35S:SVR1:GFP construct or, alternatively, with a GFP vector control (P35S:GFP) according to CITATION. Fluorescence from GFP and autofluorescence from chlorophyll were monitored by confocal microscopy. Genomic DNA was isolated and DNA gel blot analyses were performed as described by CITATION. Total cell RNA isolation from Arabidopsis leaf tissues using the Trizol RNA reagent (Invitrogen) and RNA gel blot analyses were also performed as described by CITATION. Primers used to generate the probes used in this work are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Most probes were labeled by random priming, but the 4.5S and 5S probes were labeled by the end-labeling method (CITATION). RT-PCR was performed as described (CITATION) using the primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. For plasmid rescue, genomic DNA was extracted from 100 mg of Arabidopsis tissue and resuspended in 30 μL of deionized water (CITATION). A 10-μL aliquot of this suspension was digested with various restriction enzymes for 8 h in 30-μL reactions, and the digests were extracted with phenol-chloroform followed by chloroform. DNA was precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in 20 μL of deionized water. This suspension was split into two 10-μL fractions and ligated overnight using T4 DNA ligase (Invitrogen) at either 14°C or room temperature. The two ligation reactions were combined and extracted with phenol-chloroform, followed by chloroform, and the DNA was precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in 10 μL of deionized water. One microliter of the final suspension was used for transformation using recombination-deficient E. coli SURE competent cells (Stratagene). Rescued plasmids were selected on Luria-Bertani plates containing 100 mg/L ampicillin. Arabidopsis leaves were weighed and frozen in liquid N2. Frozen leaves were then homogenized in 2× SDS buffer and incubated at 65°C for 2 h. After centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 10 min, the supernatants were loaded onto 12% SDS polyacrylamide gels based on equal fresh weights (CITATION). SDS-PAGE was performed based on CITATION as described by CITATION, CITATION). Polyclonal antibodies used in this study were directed against VAR2 (CITATION), FtsH1 (CITATION), D1 (CITATION), Rieske Fe-S protein (CITATION), and the ATPase α-subunit (CITATION). Antibodies against PsbP and PsaF were from Agrosera and were kindly provided by Poul Erik Jensen at the University of Copenhagen. The SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescence kit (Pierce) was used for signal detection on the immunoblots. Labeling of proteins in vivo was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). In brief, [35S]Met (50 μCi) was applied to the surface of expanding Arabidopsis leaves, and the leaves were vacuum-infiltrated for 10 s. After a 20-min pulse of the label, total proteins were isolated (as described above) and equal cpm were loaded onto 12.5% SDS polyacrylamide gels. The gels were dried using a Bio-Rad Geldryer and exposed to autoradiograph film. The first pair of rosette leaves of 2-week-old seedlings was harvested and weighed. Leaves were ground in liquid N2, and chlorophyll was extracted with 95% ethanol. Total chlorophyll contents and chlorophyll a/b ratios were calculated as described (CITATION). The full-length At2g39140 (SVR1) cDNA was amplified using primers FNCBF and FNCBR and cloned into pBluescript KS+ at the BamHI site. Asp-274 was then mutated in vitro using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). The primers used for mutagenesis were DNF and DNR (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The wild-type and mutated forms of the SVR1 cDNA were cloned into the BamHI site of pB003 (provided by Dr. David Oliver, Iowa State University); transcription was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in this vector. The constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis by the methods described above. For transmission electron microscopy, leaf samples were obtained from 7-d-old seedlings grown as described above. The samples were fixed, stained, and examined as described by CITATION. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: SVR1/At2g39140, NP_181447; ClpR1/SVR2/At1g49970, NP_564560; At1g09800, NP_172451; At1g20370, NP_564112; At1g34150, NP_564438; At1g56345, NP_176031; At1g76050, NP_177732; At1g76120, NP_565126; At1g78910, NP_178012; At2g30320, NP_180591; At3g04820, NP_187133; At3g06950, NP_187351; At3g19440, NP_188575; At3g57150, NP_191274; At4g21770, NP_193908; At5g14460, NP_196950; At5g35400, NP_198390; At5g51140, NP_199927; Maa2, CAB62387; RsuA, AAC75244; RluB, AAC74351; RluE, AAC74219; RluF, AAC76992; RluA, AAC73169; RluC, AAC74170; RluD, AAC75643; TruC, AAC75833; TruB, AAC76200; TruA, AAC75378; TruD, AAC75787. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The Ultrastructure of Chloroplasts in the Wild Type, var2-5, and TAG-FN. Supplemental Figure 2. Linkage Analysis of TAG-FN Double Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Characterization of svr1-2. Supplemental Figure 4. Linkage Analysis of TAG-IE Double Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. Chloroplast 23S rRNA Accumulation in var2 Suppressors. Supplemental Figure 6. The Suppression of var2-5 by clpC1. Supplemental Figure 7. Ethidium Bromide Staining of RNA Gels. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. Alignment Used to Generate the Phylogenetic Tree in Figure 6.
