!~ABS~! Proteins containing the forkhead-associated domain (FHA) are known to act in biological processes such as DNA damage repair, protein degradation, and signal transduction. Here we report that DAWDLE (DDL), an FHA domain-containing protein in Arabidopsis, acts in the biogenesis of miRNAs and endogenous siRNAs. Unlike mutants of genes known to participate in the processing of miRNA precursors, such as dcl1, hyponastic leaves1, and serrate, ddl mutants show reduced levels of pri-miRNAs as well as mature miRNAs. Promoter activity of MIR genes, however, is not affected by ddl mutations. DDL is an RNA binding protein and is able to interact with DCL1. In addition, we found that SNIP1, the human homolog of DDL, is involved in miRNA biogenesis and interacts with Drosha. Therefore, we uncovered an evolutionarily conserved factor in miRNA biogenesis. We propose that DDL participates in miRNA biogenesis by facilitating DCL1 to access or recognize pri-miRNAs.
!~RES~! ddl-1 and ddl-2 are two recessive, potentially null alleles in the DDL gene in the Wassilewskija genetic background (CITATION). The ddl-1 and ddl-2 mutants show delayed growth and reduced fertility, and have defects in root, shoot, and floral morphology. These pleiotropic developmental defects resemble those of mutants deficient in miRNA biogenesis and prompted us to test whether the ddl mutants are compromised in miRNA accumulation. We examined the abundance of various miRNAs in ddl-1 and ddl-2 by RNA filter hybridization. Indeed, the levels of 9 of 10 tested DCL1-dependent miRNAs were reduced by 2- to 3.3-fold in ddl-1 and ddl-2, relative to WT [FIG-REF and supporting information (SI) Fig. S1]. The levels of an antisense miRNA, miR172*, were reduced by 3.3 times in ddl mutants (FIG-REF). Introduction of a DDL transgene into ddl-1 rescued the morphological defects of the mutants (CITATION) and fully recovered the levels of miRNAs and miR172* (FIG-REF and Fig. S1), demonstrating that the defects in miRNA accumulation in the two mutants were due to DDL loss of function. To determine whether DDL plays a role in the methylation of miRNAs, we evaluated the methylation status of miR161 in ddl mutants by treating total RNAs with sodium periodate followed by β-elimination (CITATION) and analyzing miR161 by filter hybridization. Loss of methylation would result in faster migration of the RNA in this assay (CITATION). We found that the ddl mutations had no detectable effects on the methylation of miR161 (Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] We next tested whether DDL is involved in the biogenesis of endogenous siRNAs. We found that two DCL4-dependent siRNAs—siRNA1511, a ta-siRNA from the TAS2 locus (CITATION), and siRNA255, a ta-siRNA from the TAS1 locus (CITATION)—were reduced in abundance in ddl mutants (FIG-REFA). The reduced accumulation of these ta-siRNAs was rescued by the DDL transgene (FIG-REFA). Because the ta-siRNAs require a DCL1-dependent miRNA in their biogenesis, the reduction in ta-siRNA accumulation in ddl mutants could not support a direct role of DDL in the biogenesis of DCL4-dependent small RNAs. We tested the effect of ddl mutations on the accumulation of a DCL4-dependent miRNA, miR822 (CITATION). We found that the ddl mutations led to reduced levels of this miRNA, and that DDL genomic DNA rescued the molecular defect in ddl-1 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We also examined the levels of DCL3-dependent siRNAs from repeated DNA or transposons, such as siRNA02, siRNA1003, AtSN1 siRNAs, and cluster 2 siRNAs. Three of the four siRNAs were reduced by 2- to 10-fold in the ddl mutants, and this reduction was rescued by the DDL transgene (FIG-REFB). To determine the step at which a defect in miRNA biogenesis occurred in ddl mutants, we examined the levels of pri-miRNAs and pre-miRNAs in WT and ddl mutants. We determined the levels of pri-miRNAs at five MIR loci (MIR159a, MIR166a, MIR167a, MIR171a, and MIR172b) by RT-PCR. The levels of the five tested pri-miRNAs were reduced by 1.7- to 3.0-fold in ddl-1 and 1.9- to 4.8-fold in ddl-2 relative to WT (FIG-REFA). Next we examined the levels of pre-miR166a and pre-miR164b, which were shown to be detectable by RNA filter hybridization (CITATION). We also included dcl1-9, which has reduced levels of pre-miRNAs (CITATION), and its WT control (Ler) in the analysis. The levels of the two pre-miRNAs were reduced in ddl mutants (FIG-REFB). Furthermore, in the ddl mutants, the levels of pri-miRNAs, pre-miRNAs, and miRNAs appeared to be reduced to a similar extent (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The reduction in pri-miRNA levels in ddl mutants raised the possibility that DDL is a general transcription factor for MIR genes or that DDL is a general regulator of transcription for most or all genes. We used two strategies to determine whether DDL controls the transcription of MIR genes. First, we tested the effect of the ddl-1 mutation on the expression of a GUS reporter gene under the control of the promoter of MIR172a or MIR172b. If DDL was a transcriptional regulator of MIR genes, the ddl-1 mutation would be expected to affect the expression of the GUS transgene like it affects the endogenous MIR genes. We first generated transgenic lines containing a single-locus pMIR172a::GUS or pMIR172b::GUS transgene. The promoters of the two genes were defined as the genomic DNA from the upstream neighboring gene to the start of transcription of MIR172a and MIR172b as determined by 5′ RACE (data not shown) and were 6.3 kb and 3.4 kb, respectively, for MIR172a and MIR172b. The transgenic plants were crossed to ddl-1, and DDL+ (DDL/DDL or DDL/ddl-1) or ddl-1 genotypes containing the GUS transgene were obtained in the F2 generation. The ddl-1 mutation did not affect the amount of GUS staining resulting from pMIR172a::GUS or pMIR172b::GUS (FIG-REFA). Because GUS staining might not be a quantitative measure of transgene expression, we also determined the levels of GUS transcripts from the transgenes by RT-PCR. No difference in GUS transcript levels was found between DDL+ and ddl-1 plants (Fig. S2). In addition, the expression of a GUS reporter driven by the promoter of PISTILLATA (CITATION), a protein coding gene, was also similar between DDL+ and ddl genotypes (FIG-REFA), suggesting that DDL is unlikely a general regulator of transcription. [[FIGURE]] Second, we monitored the steady-state levels of pri-miR172a, pre-miR172a, and miR172 in DDL+ and ddl-1 plants containing a single-locus MIR172a transgene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. If DDL functions as a transcriptional regulator of MIR172a through its promoter, the ddl-1 mutation would not be expected to affect the expression of MIR172a driven by the 35S promoter. We crossed a transgenic line containing a single locus of 35S::MIR172a (CITATION) to ddl-1 and obtained DDL+ and ddl-1 plants containing the transgene in the F2 generation. As expected, the presence of the 35S::MIR172 transgene led to a large increase in the levels of miR172 relative to control Ws plants (FIG-REFC; compare lanes with the 35S::MIR172a transgene to those without the transgene), which indicated that the miR172 signal detected in the presence of the transgene largely reflected the miRNA pool produced from the transgene. It was obvious that both miR172 and pre-miR172a levels were reduced in the ddl-1 mutant (FIG-REFC). The levels of pri-miR172a, as determined by RT-PCR, were also reduced in ddl-1 (FIG-REFB). These data demonstrated that DDL did not act through the promoters of MIR genes. Because our results did not support a role of DDL in the transcriptional control of MIR genes, we investigated other possibilities that may explain the reduced levels of miRNAs in ddl mutants. One possibility was that DDL regulates the expression of genes involved in miRNA biogenesis. We determined the levels of DCL1, HYL1, and SERRATE RNAs by RT-PCR and the levels of HEN1 protein by using Western blot analysis. We found that the ddl mutations had no obvious effects on the expression of these genes (data not shown). Next, we tested for interaction of DDL with proteins involved in miRNA biogenesis with a yeast two-hybrid assay and did not detect any interaction between DDL and AGO1, HEN1, or HYL1 (data not shown). However, DDL was found to interact with an N-terminal portion (amino acids 1–833), but not a C-terminal portion (amino acids 814-1909), of DCL1 in the yeast two-hybrid assay (FIG-REFA). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction between DDL and DCL1 with an independent assay, we tested coimmunoprecipitation (coIP) of the two proteins transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana. The presence of the viral-silencing suppressor p19 of tomato bushy stunt virus was reported to result in at least a 50-fold increase in the expression of a target protein in a transient expression system in N. benthamiana (CITATION). We used this system to separately express the DCL1 protein fused to a yellow fluorescent protein (DCL1-YFP) and the DDL protein fused to an HA epitope (HA-DDL). The HA-DDL extract was then mixed with the DCL1-YFP extract at a 1:1 ratio. We then used anti-GFP (and GFP variants) polyclonal antibodies conjugated to agarose beads to pull down DCL1-YFP from mixed DCL1-YFP/HA-DDL extracts or from HA-DDL extracts alone (control). As shown in FIG-REFB, an anti-HA antibody detected the enrichment of HA-DDL in the DCL1-YFP immunoprecipitate relative to the control immunoprecipitate, suggesting the association between DDL and DCL1. As another negative control, we expressed HA-HEN1 and performed coIP on DCL1-YFP and HA-HEN1 with the same procedure. We did not find any association between DCL1-YFP and HA-HEN1 (FIG-REFB). It should be noted that only a small portion of the input HA-DDL was associated with DCL1-YFP in this assay. In fact, HA-DDL was not detected in the DCL1-YFP immunoprecipitate when the levels of DCL1-YFP were low (i.e., in the absence of p19). These observations suggested that only a portion of DCL1 molecules could interact with DDL or that DDL interacted transiently with DCL1. BLAST analysis showed that an N-terminal domain of DDL was conserved in several proteins with roles in RNA metabolism (FIG-REFA) (data not shown). The presence of this domain prompted us to test whether DDL was an RNA binding protein. We performed a GST pull-down assay to test whether DDL could bind to pri-miR162b, which was transcribed in vitro in the presence of [α-32P]UTP. We chose to test pri-miR162b because its 5′ and 3′ ends were determined experimentally (CITATION). GST-DDL or the control GST was expressed in E. coli and purified with glutathione beads. Labeled pri-miR162b was added to the beads containing GST-DDL or GST. After washes and elution, the RNA was resolved on a polyacrylamide gel. Pri-miR162b was retained by GST-DDL but not GST alone (FIG-REF A and B). Under the same conditions, double-stranded DNA corresponding to pri-miR162b was not retained by GST-DDL (FIG-REFB). We found that GST-DDL could also bind to an in vitro transcribed RNA corresponding to part of the APETALA1 mRNA (data not shown). These observations indicate that DDL is an RNA binding protein, but it does not bind specifically to pri-miRNAs in vitro. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] By BLAST searches of the nonredundant protein databases of the National Center for Biotechnology Information, we found that the SNIP1 proteins from human, mouse, and other organisms were obvious homologs of DDL (FIG-REFA). The human SNIP1 protein was reported to function in TGF-β and NF-κB signaling pathways, but a potential role in miRNA metabolism was not evaluated. We tested whether the human SNIP1 protein was involved in miRNA biogenesis. We first used an siRNA (siRNA1) targeting SNIP1 to knock down SNIP1 expression in HeLa cells. Indeed, siRNA1 targeting SNIP1 reduced the levels of SNIP1 protein by ≈50% relative to a nontargeting control siRNA (FIG-REFB). The accumulation of five tested miRNAs (let-7i, miR21, miR22, miR23, and miR25) showed 1.7- to 2-fold reduction after SNIP1 siRNA1 treatment (FIG-REFC). We further tested the effect of a different SNIP1 targeting siRNA (siRNA2). Transfection of HeLa cells with siRNA2 resulted in >50% reduction in SNIP1 protein levels relative to a nontargeting control siRNA (FIG-REFB). A 2-fold reduction in three tested miRNAs was observed in siRNA2-treated cells (FIG-REFC). These data demonstrated that human SNIP1 functions in miRNA metabolism and is therefore likely an ortholog of DDL. Both SNIP1 and Drosha, which processes pri-miRNAs in humans, are localized in the nucleus. We reasoned that, like the association between DDL and DCL1, which processes pri-miRNAs in plants, SNIP1 might be associated with Drosha. We tested the association of SNIP1 and Drosha by coIP. We first transfected 293T cells with an HA-SNIP1 plasmid (CITATION), the vector alone control for HA-SNIP1, or a Drosha-Flag plasmid (CITATION). Western blot analyses showed that HA-SNIP1 and Drosha-Flag were indeed expressed in the transfected cells (FIG-REFD, “Input” lanes). Next, we mixed the extract from Drosha-Flag cells with the HA-SNIP1 extract or the vector alone extract and performed coIP. After immunoprecipitation of HA-SNIP1 with an anti-HA antibody, we were able to detect the presence of Drosha-Flag in the SNIP1 immunoprecipitate, but not in the control immunoprecipitate, with an anti-Flag antibody (FIG-REFD). To further test the specificity of the SNIP1-Drosha interaction, we performed coIP of SNIP1 and exportin 5 and of SNIP1 and Dicer. We first transfected 293T cells with the HA-SNIP1 plasmid, the vector alone control, a Dicer plasmid (Gregory Hannon, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY), or a Myc-exportin 5 plasmid (CITATION). Next, we confirmed that HA-SNIP1, Dicer, and Myc-exportin 5 were expressed in the cells (Fig. S3, “Input” lanes). We then mixed Myc-exportin 5 or Dicer extracts with the HA-SNIP1 extract or the vector alone extract and performed immunoprecipitation with anti-HA antibodies. Although HA-SNIP1 was successfully immunoprecipitated, neither Dicer nor exportin 5 was detected in the immunoprecipitate (Fig. S3). Therefore, SNIP1 was associated with Drosha in vivo.
!~MM~! The ddl-1 and ddl-2 mutants and the ddl-1 mutant expressing a DDL genomic construct were reported by Morris et al. (CITATION). To generate DDL+ (DDL/DDL or DDL/ddl-1) or ddl-1 plants harboring a single-locus GUS transgene, transgenic lines (in Ler background) containing a single locus of pMIR172a::GUS, pMIR172b::GUS, or pPISTILLATA::GUS (CITATION) were crossed to ddl-1. In the F2 population, plants showing the WT (of the DDL/DDL or DDL/ddl-1 genotypes) and ddl-1 phenotypes were screened for the GUS transgene by GUS staining. To generate DDL+ (DDL/DDL or DDL/ddl-1) or ddl-1 plants expressing 35S::MIR172a, we crossed a transgenic line (in Ler background) containing a single locus of 35S::MIR172a (CITATION) to ddl-1. F2 seeds were selected on Kanamycin medium for the presence of the transgene, and DDL+ (DDL/DDL or DDL/ddl-1) or ddl-1 plants were identified by their phenotypes. The construction of GST-DDL, pMIR172a::GUS, and pMIR172b::GUS plasmids is described in SI Materials and Methods. cDNA was synthesized from 5 μg of total RNA by using reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT). Quantitative PCR was performed in triplicate on a Bio-Rad IQcycler apparatus with the Quantitech SYBR green kit (Bio-Rad). The primers used are listed in Table S1. RNA isolation and hybridization for miRNAs and endogenous siRNAs were performed as described (CITATION). 5′-End-labeled 32P antisense DNA oligonucleotides or LNA oligonucleotides were used to detect miRNAs, ta-siRNAs, AtSN1 siRNA, siRNA02, and siRNA1003. For cluster 2 siRNAs, a DNA fragment was amplified from genomic DNA with forward and reverse primers (Table S1), gel-purified, and labeled by random priming. The detection of pre-miR166a and pre-miR164b was performed as described (CITATION). GST-DDL RNA binding assays were performed as described (CITATION, CITATION). A DNA fragment corresponding to pri-miR162b was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA with primers miR162bp1, which contained a T7 promoter, and miR162bp2 (Table S1). The resulting PCR product was purified and used as a template for in vitro transcription with T7 polymerase in the presence of [α-32P]UTP to generate pri-miR162b. Transient expression of DCL1-YFP and HA-DDL was performed as described (CITATION). For coIP between DDL and DCL1, the harvested leaves of N. benthamiana were ground in liquid nitrogen and homogenized in 3 vol of protein lysis buffer [50 mM Tris·HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, 2 mM DTT, 5% glycerol, complete proteinase inhibitor mixture (Roche)] and centrifuged for 15 min at 16,110 × g. After preclearing with protein-A agarose, half of the HA-DDL or HA-HEN1 lysate was mixed with the DCL1-YFP lysate. The mixed lysate or the HA-DDL or HA-HEN1 lysate alone was incubated with anti-GFP (and GFP variants) antibodies coupled to protein A agarose beads (Clontech) for 2 h. The immune complexes were then washed four times with 1 ml of lysis buffer. Proteins retained on the beads were resolved on SDS/polyacrylamide gels. Anti-YFP (Covance), anti-HA (Sigma-Aldrich), and anti-HEN1 antibodies were used to detect DCL1-YFP, HA-DDL, and HA-HEN1, respectively, by using Western blot analysis. HeLa cells were transfected with siRNAs targeting SNIP1 or a nontargeting control siRNA (Table S1) (Dharmacon) by using Oligofectamine (Invitrogen). Cells were harvested for protein and RNA analyses 3 days after transfection. Anti-SNIP1 antibodies were purchased from Bethyl Laboratories. For details, see SI Materials and Methods.
