!~ABS~! cpSRP54 (for chloroplast SIGNAL RECOGNITION PARTICLE54) is involved in cotranslational and posttranslational sorting of thylakoid proteins. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) cpSRP54 null mutant, ffc1-2, is pale green with delayed development. Western-blot analysis of individual leaves showed that the SRP sorting pathway, but not the SecY/E translocon, was strongly down-regulated with progressive leaf development in both wild-type and ffc1-2 plants. To further understand the impact of cpSRP54 deletion, a quantitative comparison of ffc2-1 was carried out for total leaf proteomes of young seedlings and for chloroplast proteomes of fully developed leaves using stable isotope labeling (isobaric stable isotope labeling and isotope-coded affinity tags) and two-dimensional gels. This showed that cpSRP54 deletion led to a change in light-harvesting complex composition, an increase of PsbS, and a decreased photosystem I/II ratio. Moreover, the cpSRP54 deletion led in young leaves to up-regulation of thylakoid proteases and stromal chaperones, including ClpC. In contrast, the stromal protein homeostasis machinery returned to wild-type levels in mature leaves, consistent with the developmental down-regulation of the SRP pathway. A differential response between young and mature leaves was also found in carbon metabolism, with an up-regulation of the Calvin cycle and the photorespiratory pathway in peroxisomes and mitochondria in young leaves but not in old leaves. The Calvin cycle was down-regulated in mature leaves to adjust to the reduced capacity of the light reaction, while reactive oxygen species defense proteins were up-regulated. The significance of ClpC up-regulation was confirmed through the generation of an ffc2-1 clpc1 double mutant. This mutant was seedling lethal under autotrophic conditions but could be partially rescued under heterotrophic conditions.
!~RES~! The ffc1-2 mutant was generated by ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis and is devoid of cpSRP54 transcript and protein (CITATION). Throughout the remainder of this article, we refer to ffc1-2 as ffc. When ffc was grown on agar plates under continuous moderate light (70 μmol photons m−2 s−1), young seedlings showed yellow first leaves, which subsequently became green (CITATION). However, when ffc was grown on soil with a light/dark period at 300 μmol photons m−2 s−1, plants remained pale green with reduced rosette diameter (CITATION). To better characterize plant growth and development of ffc, wild-type and ffc plants were grown on soil under four different light intensities, and their visible phenotypes, rates of leaf development, and rosette diameters were carefully monitored (Fig. 1 ). Plants were sown directly on soil without replanting to minimize biological variation. Figure 1 shows wild-type and ffc plants at 33 d after planting when grown under four different light regimes (note that the magnification is not the same for each plant). ffc plants were always paler, with fewer leaves and a 40% to 60% reduction in rosette diameter (Fig. 1). Bolting was delayed by 25% under each light regime but occurred after formation of the same number of leaves as in the wild type, indicating that loss of cpSRP54 does result in a delay in development (data not show). Therefore, to understand the role of cpSRP54 in chloroplast and leaf development, primary cpSRP54 effects and secondary developmental effects must be distinguished. [[FIGURE]] The chloroplast sorting machinery is particularly important during early leaf and chloroplast development, when protein synthesis and import rates are high. We postulated that the plastid protein sorting machinery might be down-regulated with progressive leaf development. There has been no systematic investigation of the response of the chloroplast sorting pathway in the ffc mutant. However, we note that cpSecY levels were determined in total leaf extracts of 10- and 24-d-old ffc and wild-type plants grown on agar plates (with vitamin mix) under continuous moderate light; this showed that cpSRP43 was not affected, while cpSecY levels were somewhat increased in ffc (CITATION). In order to separate changes in protein accumulation due to the ffc mutation from those naturally occurring throughout development, we used the developmental stage of both wild-type and ffc plants, and not the age of plant material, as the basis for selecting leaf material for analysis. Developmental stages used in this study were as defined by CITATION. Specifically, the developmental stage of plants in the vegetative stage is determined by the number of leaves, which is indicated by the number after the digit (e.g. stage 1.4 is a young seedling with four rosette leaves of at least 1 mm). To monitor the direct effects to the protein sorting machinery along with development in both ffc and wild-type plants, we first determined the chlorophyll content and total protein content of the cotyledons and leaves 1/2, 3/4, 7/8, and 11/12 at developmental stages 1.4, 1.8, 1.12, and 1.16 for each leaf pair. Protein-to-chlorophyll ratios in each leaf decreased strongly (up to 50-fold) during development, reflecting assembly of the photosynthetic apparatus and accumulation of chlorophyll in the thylakoid membrane; ffc leaves trailed in their chlorophyll accumulation (Supplemental Fig. S1). This is consistent with a 60% reduction of chlorophyll levels observed for leaf rosettes of ffc plants compared with the same aged wild-type plants (CITATION). Accumulation levels of the cpSRP pathway proteins cpSRP54, cpSRP43, and cpFtsY and the thylakoid protein translocons ALB3 and cpSecY/E were determined for these separate leaf pairs (Fig. 2 ) and cotyledons (data not shown) at different developmental plant stages. This showed that accumulation levels of SRP pathway components (cpFtsY, cpSRP43, cpSRP54, and ALB3) were strongly reduced with progressive leaf development (Fig. 2A), whereas cpSecY (Fig. 2B) and cpSecE (Fig. 2C) levels were relatively constant. Comparing ffc with wild-type leaves showed that, when seedlings of the same developmental stage were compared, levels of each of these sorting components were similar (except for cpSRP54, which was absent in ffc; Fig. 2). This provides additional evidence that comparison of wild-type and ffc leaves of similar development stage, rather than the same age, will best determine the direct effects of cpSRP54 deletion. [[FIGURE]] Silver-stained one-dimensional SDS-PAGE of whole leaf extracts of the leaf pairs at the different developmental stages showed that the overall accumulation levels of the family of major LHCII proteins (with a molecular mass of 25–27 kD) became more abundant during leaf maturation (Fig. 2D, top), as expected from previous studies. The LHCII levels were always lower in ffc compared with wild-type leaves. As an example, the profiles for leaves 3/4 and 7/8 at stages 1.4, 1.8, 1.12, and 1.16 are shown (Fig. 2D, top). The levels of chloroplast-encoded D1 and D2 thylakoid membrane proteins were determined by western blots (Fig. 2D, bottom). The concentrations of D1 and D2 proteins increased with leaf expansion and were initially lower in ffc than in the wild type. However, they reached near equivalent levels in fully expanded leaves, in contrast to LHC proteins. This is in agreement with earlier observations for whole seedlings grown of agar plates in continuous light (CITATION; CITATION). To further determine the consequences of the loss of cpSRP54 during early stages of leaf development, total cellular leaf proteomes of ffc and wild-type plants were compared using iTRAQ-based protein quantification. To account for developmental delays that may mask direct effects of the loss of cpSRP54, we compared young ffc seedlings with an average of seven true leaves (stage 1.07) with wild-type seedlings of the same age (21 d; stage 1.11) and wild-type seedlings of the same developmental stage (stage 1.07; 17 d old; Fig. 3A ). Plants at these developmental stages are shown in Figure 3B. [[FIGURE]] Total cellular leaf proteomes were extracted in the presence of SDS followed by removal of lipids and detergents in an optimized protocol for the recovery of integral membrane proteins. Each proteome was subsequently digested in solution with trypsin. A total of 30 μg of each digested proteome was labeled with the different iTRAQ reagents containing the 114-, 115-, 116-, or 117-D reporter (Supplemental Fig. S2). The labeled peptides were then mixed and separated using off-line strong cation-exchange (SCX) chromatography (Supplemental Fig. S2). Eight fractions from each SCX run were analyzed using on-line reversed-phase nano-liquid chromatography electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). The three seedling stages (wt1.07, wt1.11, and ffc1.07) were directly compared within each labeling experiment, and a label switch was included to remove a possible labeling bias. These experiments were carried out with two independent biological replicates. The structure of this isobaric tagging reagent, the labeling scheme, labeling principles, and quantification are explained in Supplemental Figure S2. A total of 123 proteins were identified unambiguously with one or more unique peptides (Supplemental Table S1A) using an established bioinformatics pipeline that included a decoy database search and a false-positive peptide identification rate of less than 1% (CITATION). In addition, 39 proteins were identified as part of small gene families, in particular in the LHC family and ribosomal proteins (Supplemental Table S1A). Relevant extracted information from the MS analysis is shown in Supplemental Table S1A and can also be found in the Plant Proteomics Database (PPDB; http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/; see “Materials and Methods”). About 60% of the identified proteins are localized in the chloroplast, using the curated subcellular localization as described by CITATION. A total of 19% of the identified proteins have at least one confirmed TMD, which is close to the predicted 22% for the whole Arabidopsis proteome (CITATION). The ffc/wild-type ratios of 97 proteins (or small families of proteins) were quantified in both biological replicates (Table I ); additional proteins quantified in only one replicate are not further discussed. Details of the quantifications (e.g. individual ffc/wild-type ratios for each peptide sequence) can be found in Supplemental Table S2. The average coefficient of variation (CV) for the ffc/wild-type ratio between the biological replicates was 15%. The quantified proteome covered mostly chloroplast stromal and thylakoid proteins (30% and 39%, respectively). Quantified proteins outside the chloroplast were enriched for peroxisomal and mitochondrial proteins involved in photorespiration as well as for cytosolic proteins involved in protein synthesis (Table I). The ffc/wild-type ratios that are below 0.85 or above 1.15 and are also 2 sd away from unity are marked in boldface (Table II ). This corresponds to P < 0.05, assuming normal distribution. Quantified proteins in seedlings using iTRAQ with two biological replicates between wt1.07/wt1.11 and ffc1.07/wt1.07 and ffc1.07/wt1.11 Comparative analysis of soluble stromal proteins from isolated chloroplasts of fully developed leaf rosettes of ffc and wt plants using ICAT When comparing the two wild-type seedling developmental stages, it is notable that levels of major LHCI and LHCII antennae proteins in the thylakoid proteome increase up to 50% during these 4 d of plant growth, reflecting the buildup of the photosynthetic apparatus during leaf development. This also underlines the importance of accounting for a developmental delay when addressing the role of cpSRP54 and biogenesis of the LHC family. Interestingly, accumulation of the subunits of PSI and PSII core complexes and the thylakoid ATP synthase complex increased on average only by 9%, 5%, and 5%, respectively, indicating that assembly of the peripheral antennae complexes trails the accumulation of the PSI and PSII cores as well as ATP synthase. Levels of 12 quantified Calvin cycle enzymes, and most other quantified functions inside and outside of the chloroplast, did not change between stages 1.07 and 1.14 in wild-type seedlings (Table I). We note that the ffc/wild-type ratios within these complexes and pathways were highly consistent, providing additional testimony for the accuracy and significance of the quantitative analysis. There are 22 LHC proteins in the antennae of PSI and PSII, and they are arranged in six LHCII and five LHCI subfamilies (Fig. 4 ). They contain a partially conserved L18 hydrophilic domain located between TMDs 2 and 3 (Fig. 4); this L18 domain was shown to be essential for interaction with cpSRP43 and formation of the “transit complex” (CITATION; CITATION). We detected and quantified nine out of the 11 LHC subfamilies; their accumulation levels in ffc were between 70% and 100% of wt1.07 levels. When comparing LHC levels in ffc1.07 and wt1.11, these accumulation levels were further reduced as a consequence of the developmental delay (Table I). Compared with other LHC members, the LHCII-1 family was most reduced, while CP26 (LHCII-6) was unaffected. The abundant PsbS protein with pigment-binding domains and four TMDs (rather than three in the LHC family) accumulated at 40% higher levels in ffc than in the wild type, in agreement with observations that PsbS does not require the SRP pathway in vivo (CITATION) and can stably accumulate in the thylakoid, independent of PSII (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The four major complexes, PSII, PSI, the ATP synthase, and the cytochrome b6f complex, contain several chloroplast-encoded integral membrane proteins that are potential substrates of the cpSRP54-dependent cotranslational insertion pathway. The accumulation levels of these chloroplast-encoded proteins could be directly affected by the lack of cpSRP54 in the ffc mutant. The nucleus-encoded subunits in these complexes are not known to require the cpSRP pathway. Within the PSII core complex, 11 proteins were quantified (Table I), including five chloroplast-encoded proteins (D1, D2, CP43, CP47, and cytochrome b559α), the nucleus-encoded integral membrane core protein PsbR, and the three nucleus-encoded proteins of the water-splitting complex (OEC16, OEC23, and OEC33 and some of their homologues). The average accumulation of PSII core proteins in ffc was 8% reduced when compared with wt1.07 and 19% reduced when compared with wt1.11. The Sec-dependent OEC33 and the TAT-dependent OEC23 were unaffected in ffc, while the two TAT-dependent OEC16 homologues showed a strong differential response, suggesting that they have complementary functions (Table I). Five PSI core subunits were quantified: the major PSI core subunits PsaA and PsaB (chloroplast encoded), and PsaD, PsaF, and PsaG (nucleus encoded). An average reduction of 54% for these PSI core subunits was observed when comparing ffc with wt1.07, which increased to 65% when comparing ffc with wt1.11. When comparing the changes in accumulation for the core subunits of these two photosystems, it is clear that the PSI/PSII ratio is lower in ffc as compared with the wild type. The PSI/PSII ratio (calculated from the average ffc/wild-type ratio of the core subunits) does not change during the 4 d of development in the wild type (wt1.07/wt1.11 = 0.98) but is only about 70% of the wild-type ratio in ffc seedlings (0.70 for ffc/wt1.07 and 0.67 for ffc/wt1.11). Three chloroplast-encoded (CF1α, -β, and -ε) and two nucleus-encoded peripheral (CF1δ and -γ) ATP synthase subunits, as well as one nucleus-encoded integral ATP synthase subunit (CF0-II), were quantified. The peripheral subunits of this complex were reduced by 15% in ffc as compared with wt1.07 and by 22% compared with wt1.11, while CF0-II was unaffected in ffc. In vitro studies suggested that the CF0-II protein inserts “spontaneously” into the membrane (CITATION), which is consistent with our observations. Stromal chaperones (Cpn60, Cpn21, and Hsp70) involved in protein folding and maturation, as well as a highly abundant protein isomerase without known function (ROC4), increased 40% to 89% in ffc as compared with wt1.07 (Table I). The increase was slightly higher (46%–107%) when compared with wt1.11. ClpC1 and -2 levels increased 67% in the ffc mutant compared with both wt1.07 and wt1.11. ClpC1 and -2 are members of the Hsp100 family; in particular, ClpC1 has been shown to be involved in protein import (CITATION). ClpC1 and -2 are likely also involved in the delivery of proteins for degradation to the stromal ClpPR protease complex (CITATION). Three abundant RNA-binding proteins (CP29A, CP29B, and CP31) involved in mRNA stability and the elongation factor and chaperone EF-Tu1 (CITATION) accumulated to 50% higher levels in ffc. The thylakoid membrane proteases FtsH1 and -5 accumulated to 69% higher levels in ffc compared with the wild type, suggesting an increased need for degradation within the thylakoid membrane. The small and large subunits of Rubisco accumulated at slightly lower levels in ffc (Table I). In contrast, nine other Calvin Cycle enzymes accumulated on average at 38% (±13%) higher levels in ffc compared with wt1.07 (and 45% ± 11% compared with wt1.11). Eight peroxisomal and mitochondrial proteins involved in various aspects of photorespiration were quantified. Glycolate oxidases 1 and 2, the first respiratory enzymes in the peroxisomes, increased by 39% in ffc as compared with wt1.07 (and 86% compared with wt1.11). Consistently, catalases 2 and 3, involved in the detoxification of hydrogen peroxide released by glycolate oxidases, increased 45% in ffc. Three mitochondrial photorespiratory enzymes were quantified. The P protein of the Gly decarboxylase complex increased by 61% ± 7% in ffc when compared with wt1.07 (and 118% ± 19% when compared with wt1.11), while the T subunit was unaffected. The enzyme immediately downstream of Gly decarboxylase, Gly/Ser hydroxymethyltransferase, increased by 61% ± 7% in ffc when compared with wt1.07 (118% ± 19% compared with wt1.11). Chloroplast stromal Glu synthase, involved in the photorespiratory cycle as well as nitrogen assimilation, was not significantly affected in ffc. Nine cytosolic proteins involved in protein synthesis and folding were quantified (Table I). However, several peptides used for these quantifications matched multiple members of the respective protein families, reducing the value of the quantification. Nevertheless, it appears that cytosolic protein homeostasis was not or only slightly affected (ffc/wild type = 1.27 ± 0.13). Three enzymes of the cytosolic S-adenosyl-Met (SAM) cycle were quantified but did not show any consistent change in ffc. To compare the mature chloroplast proteomes of wild-type and ffc plants, chloroplasts were isolated from fully grown rosettes prior to bolting from 40-d-old wild-type plants and 47-d-old ffc plants, both at growth stage 3.90, as defined by CITATION; Fig. 3, A and B). The isolated chloroplasts were fractionated into soluble stroma and thylakoid membranes. The isolated thylakoid membranes were stripped of lumenal and peripheral proteins, and the remaining membrane proteomes of ffc and the wild type were compared using iTRAQ labeling and quantification by MS/MS analysis (see Supplemental Fig. S2 for experimental design). The stromal proteomes of wild-type and ffc plants were compared using differential stable isotope labeling with cleavable ICAT (Fig. 5 ; CITATION) as well as 2DE gels using immobilized pH gradient (IPG) strips in the first dimension and SDS-PAGE in the second dimension (Fig. 6). In addition, wild-type and ffc stroma were also analyzed by 2DE PAGE using native gels in the first dimension (CN-PAGE) and SDS-PAGE in the second dimension (Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] The stromal ICAT analysis was carried out with two biological replicates and included a label switch between the wild type and ffc. An overview of the procedure is provided in Figure 5, with an explanation provided in its legend. The two ICAT experiments identified 194 and 196 proteins, totaling 271 proteins (all identifications with associated scores and sequences are available via PPDB; Supplemental Table S1B). Since on average only about 20% of tryptic peptides contain a Cys, a significant proportion of the identified proteins were not quantified. A total of 293 and 133 ICAT-labeled peptide pairs were manually quantified in experiments 1 and 2, respectively (Supplemental Table S3, A and B). After removing peptides matched to proteins that did not pass the identification criteria, 267 and 126 peptides (experiments 1 and 2, respectively) were matched to 83 identified proteins (Supplemental Table S3C). We did not detect unlabeled Cys-containing peptides (even after searching for acrylamide adducts to Cys: propionamide C modification), indicating that the ICAT labeling was saturating. This was expected, as the ICAT reagent is an efficient alkylating reagent that was added in large excess. Forty-six proteins were quantified in both biological replicates (Table II), with an average CV for ffc/wild-type protein ratios of 14%. A few proteins were not quantified individually but as small clusters of closely related family members (Table II). We focus on the 46 proteins that were quantified in both experiments and passed the strict identification filters (Table II). These proteins include members of the major biosynthetic pathways (Calvin cycle, pentose phosphate pathway, minor carbohydrates, starch, amino acids, chlorophyll, sulfur/Cys metabolism) as well as protein synthesis and folding (CPN60, cpHSP70, and ROC4) and protein degradation (ClpC and zinc metalloprotease). While most of the ffc/wild-type protein ratios were close to 1, levels of 12 quantified Calvin cycle enzymes were systematically reduced in ffc (average ffc/wild type = 0.78 ± 0.10), which is consistent with the reduced LHC cross section and decrease in growth rates (see section below on the thylakoid). Stromal ascorbate peroxidase (At4g08390) was significantly increased by 56%, suggesting an increased level of hydrogen peroxide and consistent with 2-fold up-regulation of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD; At2g23190), as shown by 2DE gel analysis (see next section). It was also clear that there was no increased demand for either protein folding or stromal protein degradation, since the major chaperone systems Cpn60 and HSP70, as well as ClpC1 and -2 and the abundant stromal metalloprotease AtZnMP, accumulated at wild-type levels (Table II). We finally note that three ClpPR subunits of the major stromal Clp protease complex (quantified only in one of the biological replicates) were also at wild-type levels (Supplemental Table S3C). The CN-PAGE analysis of ffc and wild-type stroma did not show any obvious differences (Supplemental Fig. S3). The Rubisco holocomplex of approximately 550 kD represents 58% of the stromal protein mass in isolated chloroplasts from fully developed Arabidopsis leaf rosettes (CITATION). This strongly reduces the resolving power of 2DE gels using isoelectric focusing as the first dimension. Since our previous and current CN-PAGE gel analysis showed that most abundant stromal proteins are found in monomers or complexes below 550 kD (CITATION), we fractionated stroma from wild-type and ffc plants by Suc density centrifugation and collected proteins sedimenting above the Rubisco complex as two fractions (fractions 1 and 2). These two fractions were each focused in the first dimension on IPG strips and then separated by SDS-PAGE in the second dimension (Fig. 6 ). The experiment was carried out in duplicate using independent chloroplast preparations and including a technical replicate for fraction 1, resulting in 12 2DE gels. Protein spots were then matched across the 12 gels and quantified using image analysis software. The most abundant 150 spots were analyzed by peptide mass fingerprinting using matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of flight (MALDI-TOF) MS to ensure correct spot matching (data not shown) and to identify proteins in up- and down-regulated spots. [[FIGURE]] We were able to match and quantify 197 spots across fraction 1 and 109 spots across fraction 2, while 101 spots were matched and quantified across both fractions. Most spots did not show significant changes, consistent with the ICAT analysis of the stroma (presented above), showing that proteome homeostasis returned to steady state in fully developed leaves. However, we did find significant (>2-fold sd) changes for CuZnSOD (At2g28190) and an oxidoreductase-like protein of unknown function (At1g23740; Fig. 7 ). Both proteins likely relate to reactive oxygen species (ROS) defense and/or redox regulation (see “Discussion”). [[FIGURE]] The two independent stripped thylakoid preparations of wild type and ffc were digested with trypsin and labeled with iTRAQ reagents (114, 115, 116, and 117), and a label switch was included for each independent preparation (Supplemental Fig. S2). The two sets were fractionated by off-line SCX chromatography, and fractions were analyzed by nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS similar to the seedling samples, discussed above. This unambiguously identified 65 proteins with one or more uniquely matched peptides, and an additional nine proteins were identified as part of small protein families (Supplemental Table S1C; see PPDB). We quantified 42 proteins in both biological replicates, and only those are considered (Table III ). Quantified proteins in ffc and wild-type thylakoids of mature rosettes using iTRAQ with two biological replicates Accumulation levels of LHCI and major LHCII were reduced between 20% and 30% in ffc, while accumulation of the minor LHC proteins CP24, CP26, and CP29.1 was unaffected or even slightly increased. However, CP29.2 decreased by 40%. Accumulation levels of 10 quantified PSII core proteins in ffc increased on average by 12%, while the six quantified PSI core proteins decreased on average by 20%. Consequently, the PSI/PSII core ratio (determined by the average ffc/wild-type ratio for the core subunits) decreased by 30% in ffc as compared with the wild type in fully grown plants. Accumulation levels of subunits of ATP synthase and the cytochrome b6f complex did not change. Interestingly, accumulation levels of thylakoid proteases FtsH2 and -8 doubled in ffc, suggesting an increased need for degradation of thylakoid proteins, similar to the findings in young seedlings (Table III). A central component in chloroplast protein biogenesis is the AAA+ chaperone ClpC1 (At5g50920). ClpC1 predominantly accumulates in the chloroplast stroma, but it has also been shown to interact with the inner envelope protein import complex (CITATION). A null mutant in CLPC1 was isolated and has a virescent phenotype and reduced protein import rates (CITATION; CITATION). A null mutant in a closely related homolog expressed at lower levels, ClpC2 (At3g48870), does not have any visible phenotype (CITATION). ClpC is not only involved in the chloroplast import process but also likely targets proteins to the ClpPR core complex for degradation (CITATION; CITATION). It is conceivable that the functional association of ClpC with the Tic complex is to keep this major protein import pathway free from substrates that are trapped in the translocon. The comparative proteomics analysis of young ffc and wild-type seedlings described above, as well as previous western-blot data (CITATION; CITATION), showed that ClpC1 and -2 levels are increased by 30% to 50% in young ffc plants. Given the relevance of ClpC1 in both import and degradation, we isolated a ClpC1 null mutant, clpc1-1, and crossed it with ffc. Double homozygous mutants were recovered in the F2 generation, and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR confirmed the lack of mRNA for both cpSRP54 and CLPC1 (Fig. 8 ). The double mutant was blocked in development after emergence of the cotyledons under autotrophic conditions, but it could be partially rescued under heterotrophic conditions (1% Suc; Fig. 8). Under these heterotrophic conditions, the double mutant developed and greened slowly and could eventually be transferred to soil. After about 9 months, the plants finally flowered and produced low amounts of viable seed. The strong phenotype confirms the significance of the iTRAQ-based quantification in young seedlings and indicates that ClpC1 is of particular importance when intraplastid sorting is disturbed. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The ffc mutant previously characterized (CITATION) was originally isolated from an ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis screen and shown to have an approximately 10-kb insertion in intron 8 of the gene encoding cpSRP54 (At5g03940.1). The clpc1 mutant is a T-DNA insertional mutant in At5g50920 in the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype obtained from the SALK collection (SALK_014058). The T-DNA is inserted in the fourth exon, at 1,332 bp from the start codon, which was confirmed by DNA sequencing. The ffc mutant was crossed to clpc1, and the F2 population was screened on soil in short days (10 h of light, 14 h of dark). No double homozygotes were found, but screening the F2 population on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates containing 1% Suc in short days identified an ffc clpc1 double mutant. ffc clpc1 double mutant plants exhibit seedling lethality when grown only on MS medium without Suc in short days. mRNA levels in wild-type, clpc1, ffc, and ffc clpc1 plants were determined from 24-d-old plants grown in short days on half-strength MS medium containing 1% Suc by RT-PCR. Total RNA was isolated from approximately 100 mg of tissue from these plants using Tri-Reagent (Molecular Research Center). cDNA was amplified from 2 μg of total leaf RNA with SuperScript III (Invitrogen). Primers for cpSRP54 (forward, 5′-GAGGCTCTTCAATTTTCCAGCG-3′; reverse, 5′-CAGGCTTGCTTGATGCTGACTC-3′) were used to amplify the entire coding sequence of 1,663 bp. Primers for CLPCl (forward, 5′-ATGGCTATGGCCACAAGGGTGTTG-3′; reverse, 5′-GATCTTCTGGGTACAGCTCACAATATTG-3′) were used to amplify a 1,024-bp segment at the N-terminal portion of the gene. For chloroplast isolation, stroma purification, thylakoid preparation, and total plant protein isolation, wild-type (Col-0) and ffc plants were grown on soil under a 10-h-light/14-h-dark period at 22°C/19°C at 280 μmol photons m−2 s−2. Individual leaf pairs at defined stages were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Around 20 to 30 leaves were pooled for small leaves (2–5 mm), around eight to 10 for medium-sized leaves (5–10 mm), and two to six for big leaves (<10 mm). Frozen leaves were ground with mortar and pestle in 500 μL of medium containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 2 mm EDTA, and 50 μg mL−1 water-soluble irreversible Ser protease inhibitor Pefablok [(4-(2-aminoethyl)benzenesulfonyl fluoride hydrochloride; Biomol] and subsequently filtered through nylon mesh (22 μm). Proteins were then either precipitated in 80% acetone (the supernatant was used to determine chlorophyll concentrations [CITATION]) or thylakoid membranes were collected by centrifugation at 12,000g for 3 min. Protein pellets were solubilized in 50 to 100 μL of 5% SDS and 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.3), and thylakoid membrane pellets were solubilized in 100 μL of 6 m urea, 5% SDS, 0.3 m Suc, and 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.3). Before starting the western-blotting analysis of the leaf pairs, titrations were carried out to determine the linearity of the antibodies directed against cpSRP54, cpSRP43, cpFtsY, cpSecY, and ALB3 using wild-type and ffc1-2 leaf material from young leaves (data not shown). Based on these titrations, 50 μg of total leaf protein extract was loaded for analysis of cpSRP54, 20 μg for cpSRP43, and 30 μg for cpFtsY and ALB3. Thylakoid membranes corresponding to 100 μg of total leaf protein extract were loaded for analysis of cpSecY and cpSecE. A fragment of ALB3 (amino acids 327–462) was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, gel purified, and injected into rabbits for the production of polyclonal antiserum (AgriSera), and the serum was used at 1:1,000. Generation of cpSecE serum has been described (CITATION). Rabbit polyclonal antisera raised against cpSecY (used at 1:2,000), cpFtsY (used at 1:2,000), and cpSRP54 (used at 1:1,000) were kind gifts from Neil E. Hoffmann. The cpSRP43 sera (used at 1:3,000) were kind gifts of Laurent Nussaume and Ralph Henry. Proteins were separated on 12% or 14% Laemmli SDS-PAGE gels containing 6 m urea and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. For cpSecE, proteins were separated on an 8% to 16% gradient Tricine SDS-PAGE gel containing 6 m urea and blotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Bound primary antisera were detected with secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Sigma) and detected by enhanced chemiluminescence. Proteins from total tissue were isolated from wild-type and ffc seedlings at growth stage 1.07 (wild type and ffc at 17 and 21 d, respectively) and for wild-type seedlings at growth stage 1.11 (wild type at 21 d). Ten seedlings (leaf tissue only) of each developmental stage and genotype were ground in extraction buffer (6 m urea, 5% SDS, 0.3 m Suc, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.3, and 5 mm tributylphosphine) in a mortar. The supernatant was filtered through a 45-μm Miracloth, and insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at 18,000g for 1 min at 4°C. Each sample was precipitated in 80% or 100% acetone at −20°C. The protein pellets were collected by centrifugation at 18,000g for 5 min at 4°C followed by solubilization in 2% SDS and protein determination using the bicinchoninic acid method (CITATION). Thylakoids were purified from fully developed leaves using a combination of differential and gradient centrifugation steps as described previously (CITATION). Soluble and peripheral proteins were removed by stripping the thylakoid membrane as follows: thylakoid membranes were resuspended at 10 mg chlorophyll mL−1 in ice-cold 10 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 8.0) buffer containing a cocktail of protease inhibitors as listed (CITATION). The suspension was diluted 20 times with ice-cold solutions of 2 m KBr and KNO3 to a final concentration of 1 m. The suspension was stirred slowly for 30 min on ice with 10-s sonication steps every 5 min. Membranes were collected by centrifugation at 150,000g for 25 min at 4°C, washed with 10 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 8.0) buffer with sonication to remove the remaining salts, followed by centrifugation at 150,000g for 15 min to collect the stripped membranes. The membranes were then solubilized with 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 3 m urea, and 2% SDS. A total of 30 μg of protein from each sample was incubated overnight at −20°C with 450 μL of 100% acetone followed by centrifugation (18,000g, 4°C, 15 min), washing the pellet with 80% acetone, 10% methanol, 0.2% acetic acid, and 9.8% water in acetone, followed by 30 min of incubation at −20°C, followed by a final centrifugation (18,000g, 4°C, 15 min) to collect the protein. The proteins were solubilized in 20 μL of 100% DMSO, followed by dilution with digestion buffer to a final concentration of 50 mm ammonium bicarbonate and 30% DMSO. After adding trypsin to a protein:trypsin ratio of 20:1 (and a final volume of 67 μL), the samples were incubated on a shaker overnight at 37°C. After digestion, the DMSO was removed by evaporation in a SpeedVac and the peptides were dissolved in 100 μL of 5% formic acid (FA). A total of 13 μg (43.3 μL) from each sample was divided into aliquots in two tubes and dried down. A total of 100 μL of water was added to each tube and evaporated to remove residual ammonium bicarbonate. Then, 30 μL of 0.5 m triethyl ammonium bicarbonate was added to each tube and vortexed. Each peptide sample was mixed with a whole tube of labeling iTRAQ reagent (114, 115, 116, or 117; Applied Biosystems) and incubated on a shaker at room temperature for 1 h. The samples to be compared were pooled, and 50 μL of 5% FA per sample was added per label to set the pH. Finally, the solutions were diluted to 10 times the reaction volume with 25% acetonitrile (ACN) and 1% FA (final concentration < 0.05 m triethylammonia bicarbonate). The iTRAQ-labeled peptides were separated using SCX chromatography on a PolySULFOETHYL A column (200 × 2.1 mm, 5 μm, 300 Å) from PolyLC connected to an Agilent 1100 HPLC system. Solution A was 25% ACN and solution B was 25% ACN and 0.5 m ammonium formate (pH 3.0, set with FA). A total of 100 μL of each sample was injected five times (3% B, 0–3 min) before eluting the peptides off the column at a flow rate of 200 μL min−1 as follows: 3% B, 0 to 10 min; 3% to 10%, 10 to 15 min; 10% to 60%, 15 to 20 min; 60% to 100%, 20 to 25 min; 100%, 25 to 35 min; 100% to 3%, 35 to 37 min; 3%, 37 to 45 min. The fractions were collected on microtiter plates (start at 2 min, end at 45 min; 1 min per fraction; approximately 3-min dead volume). The fractions were lyophilized and resuspended with 5% FA. For identification and quantification, the eight SCX fractions containing the majority of the peptides (fractions 23–30) were analyzed by data-dependent on-line tandem MS using CapLC-ESI-MS/MS (Q-TOF1; Waters), as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were identified by searching the MS data against the ATH1v6 database concatenated with a decoy in which all sequences were in reverse orientation using Mascot with a significance threshold of 0.01. The maximum mass error tolerance for precursor and product ions was set at 1.2 and 0.8 D, respectively. Search criteria were as follows: full tryptic peptides only, variable Met oxidation, fixed iTRAQ modification for N termini and Lys residues, and variable iTRAQ modification for Tyr residues. In addition, only MS/MS spectra with ion scores of 20 or higher were considered for identification, although lower ion scores were allowed for quantification. Mascot distiller was used to calculate peak areas and extract mass-to-charge ratio values of the precursor ions, areas, and retention times. The peak areas of the reporter ions were extracted and then corrected for label purity with parameters supplied by Applied Biosystems using a program written by Dr. Qi Sun (Theory Center, Cornell University). The quantified reporter ion information for each fragmented precursor ion was coupled to the queries matched to protein accessions; quantifications for queries that were not used for identification were removed. When queries were used to identify more than one peptide, only the best match (i.e. the best interpretation of the spectrum) was kept, unless it seemed that more than one peptide was fragmented at the same time. In the latter case, the spectrum was used for the normalization but discarded for the statistical analysis of the proteins, since the reporter ions would originate from two different sources. After normalization, the peptides were grouped according to peptide sequence and the areas of reporter ions originating from the same peptide sequence were added together (i.e. repeated fragmentation of the same ion, or fragmentation of peptides with different modifications such as oxidized Met) to prevent one peptide sequence from biasing the protein average. The peptides were then grouped according to the proteins they matched. The sequences of the proteins that had shared peptides were aligned using Multi-align (CITATION), and the peptide sequence was matched to the alignment to clarify the peptide-protein relationship. Unique and shared peptides were kept separate to not compromise the data, and averages and sd values for the individual biological replicates were calculated using the ratios from the labeling experiments. Outliers were removed conservatively using the sd. Isolation of chloroplasts and extraction of stromal proteins were carried out as described (CITATION). A total of 2 mg of purified total concentrated stroma from both wild-type (Col-0) and ffc chloroplasts was loaded onto a 2-mL 10% to 30% continuous Suc gradient (in 10 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, 5 mm MgCl2, and protease inhibitors). Gradients were spun at 4°C for 3 h at 55,000 rpm in an ultracentrifuge (Beckman-Coulter) and manually fractionated at 4°C into four fractions. A total of 150 μg of protein from fraction 1 and fraction 2 was precipitated in 80% acetone, resuspended in rehydration buffer (final concentration), and rehydrated onto 11-cm pI 4 to 7 IPG strips (Amersham Pharmacia). Strips were focused in the first dimension, reduced, alkylated, and run in the second dimension on 8% to 16% Tris-HCl Criterion gels (Bio-Rad). Gels were fixed in 10% methanol and 7% acetic acid for 1 h and stained with Sypro Ruby O/N. Gels were then destained in fix solution and rinsed with double-distilled water for 15 min, and images were acquired with a Fluor-S unit (Bio-Rad). Spot quantification was performed using Phoretix 2D software. Final spot volumes were normalized to total gel volume for each gel. Stained gel spots were excised manually or using a ProPic robot (Genomic Solutions). The spots were washed, digested with modified trypsin (Promega), and extracted using a ProGest robot (Genomic Solutions). The extracted peptides were dried and resuspended in 15 μL of 5% FA. Protein identification was performed by peptide mass fingerprinting using MALDI-TOF MS in reflectron mode (Voyager DE-STR; Perseptive Biosystems). Peak lists (mgf files) from the MALDI data were generated using MoverZ software m/z (Freeware edition; Proteometrics) using a minimum signal-to-noise ratio of 3.0 and peak resolution of 5,000. The peak lists were searched against Athv6 using Mascot version 2.2 with a maximum P value of 0.05. Criteria for positive identification by MALDI-TOF MS peptide mass fingerprinting included five or more matching peptides with a narrow error distribution (clustering of errors) within 25 ppm and at least 15% sequence coverage. Only peptides without missed cleavages (by trypsin) were considered, with Met oxidation as variable modification and carbamido methylation as fixed modification. In exceptional cases (i.e. proteins of less than 20 kD and matching gel coordinates), four matching peptides were considered as positive identification. A total of 200 μg of purified stromal proteins from wild-type and ffc plants was denatured and reduced using 50 mm TCEP-HCl. All Cys residues were labeled with the light (containing only 12C stable isotopes) or heavy (13C) ICAT reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Applied Biosystems). Labeling reactions were performed separately by incubation at 37°C for 2 h. After labeling, the samples were combined and proteins separated by one-dimensional SDS-PAGE (12% acrylamide), followed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250 staining. The gel lane containing the ICAT-labeled samples was completely cut into 12 slices. Each slice was cut into 1-mm3 pieces, washed, and digested with modified trypsin (Promega), and the resulting peptides were eluted principally as described (CITATION). After vacuum concentration, 30 μL of 25% ACN, 5 mm KH2PO4, 350 mm KCl (pH 2.7), and 500 μL of affinity-loaded buffer (pH 7.2) were added to each sample as described (CITATION). The biotin-tagged peptides were purified on avidin columns as instructed by the manufacturer. Protein digests were qualitatively analyzed by MALDI-TOF MS (Voyager DE-STR; Applied Biosystems) to confirm total digestion and/or labeling. Labeled peptides were then loaded on a guard column (LC Packings; MGU-30-C18PM), followed by separation on a PepMap C18 reversed-phase nano column (LC Packings nan75-15-03-C18PM), using 90-min gradients with 95% water, 5% ACN, and 0.1% FA (solvent A) and 95% ACN, 5% water, and 0.1% FA (solvent B) at a flow rate of 200 nL min−1. The labeled peptide mixtures were analyzed by LC-ESI-MS/MS (Q-TOF1). Each ICAT-labeled sample was run in duplicate under the same chromatographic settings. For protein quantification, the samples were first analyzed in MS mode and the areas of the peptides were calculated using Masslynx 4.0 SP1. The second run was set up for data-dependent MS/MS acquisition for protein identification. The flow-through from the 12 avidin column purifications (containing nonlabeled peptides, i.e. peptides without Cys residues) was also collected and analyzed by MS/MS (peptides not usable for quantification but valuable for protein identification) after off-line desalting on C18 microcolums (CITATION). The experiment was carried out in duplicate with independent chloroplast preparations and “label switch” to avoid a possible bias due to the ICAT label. All quantified peptides and details are listed in Supplemental Table S3. Criteria for protein identification were similar to those for the iTRAQ-labeled peptides, except that a variable ICAT modification was included (instead of variable iTRAQ modification). MS-based information for all identified proteins listed in Supplemental Table S1 was extracted from the Mascot search pages and filtered for significance (e.g. minimum ion scores, etc.), ambiguities, and shared peptides as described (CITATION). This information includes Mowse score, number of matching peptides, number of matched MS/MS spectra (queries), number of unique queries, highest peptide score, highest peptide error (in ppm), lowest absolute error (ppm), sequence coverage, and tryptic peptide sequences. This information is available using the search function “Proteome Experiments” and selecting the desired output parameters; this search can be restricted to specific experiments. Alternatively, information for specific accessions (either individually or a group) can be extracted using the search function “Accessions,” and if desired, this search can be limited to specific experiments. Finally, information for a particular accession can also be found on each “Protein Report Page.” The Map-Man Bin system (CITATION) is used for functional assignment, and all assignments for identified proteins were verified manually. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Protein-to-chlorophyll a/b ratios (w/w) of cotyledons and leaf pairs 1/2, 3/4, 5/6, 7/8, and 11/12 at developmental stages 1.08 and 1.12 of wild-type and ffc plants. Supplemental Figure S2. Experimental design of iTRAQ experiments. Supplemental Figure S3. CN-PAGE of chloroplast stroma from fully developed leaf rosettes of wild-type and ffc plants. Supplemental Table S1. Identification and annotation of identified proteins in seedlings (A), stroma (B), and thylakoids (C) obtained from chloroplasts isolated from fully developed leaf rosettes. Supplemental Table S2. Quantification data of total seedling leaf proteomes of ffc and wild-type plants by iTRAQ. Supplemental Table S3. ICAT-based quantification of chloroplast thylakoid proteins from fully developed ffc and wild-type leaf rosettes. Supplemental Table S4. iTRAQ-based quantification of chloroplast thylakoid proteins from fully developed ffc and wild-type leaf rosettes. Supplemental Program S1. Program for the correction of iTRAQ purity.
