!~ABS~! Among the signal transduction pathways in higher eukaryotes, the two-component system (TCS) is unique to plants. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, it consists of more than 30 proteins, including eight receptors, five phosphotransmitters and 23 response regulators. One of its important functions is to perceive and transduce the signal of the plant hormone cytokinin. The basic signal flow within the TCS is well-understood, but it is unclear how this pathway is integrated with the remainder of the proteome. Thus, knowledge about the interactions of TCS proteins should contribute to the understanding of their mode of action. Therefore, we conducted medium-scale yeast two-hybrid screens focusing on those members of the TCS, which are thought to be involved in cytokinin signaling. In total, more than 6.3 × 107 transformants were screened resulting in the identification of 160 different interactions, of which 136 were novel. Most of the interacting proteins belong to the functional categories of signal transduction and protein metabolism. TCS proteins and their interactors localized to the same subcellular compartment in many cases, a prerequisite to being of biological relevance. The resulting interaction network map revealed large differences in the connectivity. Cytokinin receptors (AHK2, CRE1/AHK4) showed the highest numbers of different interaction partners. This study is the first systematic protein−protein interaction experiment for a plant signal system and provides numerous starting points for further analysis of the molecular mechanisms used to convert the signal carried by the TCS into biological processes.
!~RES~! To begin to elucidate the interaction network of the TCS of Arabidopsis, we screened 17 of the TCS proteins against at least one of the six cDNA libraries derived from different tissues (CITATION). In total, more than 40 screens were performed using the cytoplasmic part of the three cytokinin receptors (AHK2, AHK3 and CRE1/AHK4), one phosphotransmitter (AHP5), nine A-type response regulators (ARR3−ARR9, ARR15 and ARR16) and four B-type response regulators (ARR1, ARR2, ARR10 and ARR14) as bait. These screens resulted in more than 6.3 × 107 transformants (Table CITATION). The other previously cloned TCS proteins (AHP1, AHP2, AHP3, ARR11 and ARR20) could not be used as bait due to a very high level of autoactivation, which could not be suppressed by the addition of even up to 20 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazol in the selection medium.CITATION For a large number of the baits, 1.2 × 106 to over 1.5 × 107 transformants were screened, yielding in total more than 2800 primary positives of which a maximum of 96 primary positives per screen were further investigated (Table CITATION). This resulted finally in a total of 569 interactions (secondary positives, CITATION). Of these, sequence analyses identified 145 (26%) as histone encoding genes. These clones also interacted with the LexA DNA-binding domain alone and thus proved to be unspecific interactors. These clones were therefore excluded from the subsequent analysis. The remaining 424 interactions represent 160 different interaction pairs with 129 different prey proteins (Table CITATION and CITATION). Most of the different interactions (136) are novel. The other 24 interactions have been previously described (ref CITATION and references therein) and were thus confirmed in this study. Of the 129 different prey proteins, a majority (83) were identified only once, while 46 were found more often, in some cases more than 15 times (e.g., ARR2-AHP3 or ARR3-AHP3; see Table CITATION). For some baits, like ARR3, a high number of interactions was detected (32); however, these interactions were with only six different proteins. Other baits, like AHK2 or ARR5, interacted with a high number of different proteins (Table CITATION and CITATION). The Y2H screens identified 136 new and 24 previously published interactions. Of the 24 published interactions, 13 were found by the yeast two-hybrid system only and the remaining 11 were additionally confirmed by other methods, for example, pull-down or phosphorelay (summarized in ref CITATION). The fact that a relatively high number of previously described interactions was also detected in our screens underlines the quality of the particular vector-strain-library combination used in our experiments. To further estimate the reliability of our data set, we selected several novel interactions detected in our screens and attempted to confirm the interactions in vitro by affinity copurification. As the cytokinin receptors AHK2 and CRE1/AHK4 and the A-type ARRs ARR7 and ARR15 showed a high number of different interactors, 20 different interactions of those proteins were investigated. Using the affinity co-purification assay, 11 interactions, namely, AHK2 with AT5G64070, AT5G62740, AT5G13120, AT5G42080, AT4g27160 and AT1G69840; AHK4 with AT3G51630, AT2G38280 and AT4G15630; ARR7 with AT1G79690 and ARR15 with AT5G43170 could be verified. For the other 9 interactions, AHK2 with AT1G26270, AT4G29040, AT5G52410, AT5G48470 and AT1G17100; AHK4 with AT2G23760 and ARR7 with AT5G48630, AT2G19480 and AT1G68790 an interaction could not been shown using this in vitro method (Figure CITATION). For a detected protein−protein interaction to be biologically meaningful, both interacting proteins have to be present in the same subcellular compartment. Thus, we examined the subcellular localization of most TCS proteins by transiently expressing them as GFP-fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells. For the AHP proteins, a localization in the cytosol as well as in the nucleus was detected (Figure CITATIONA). Both, A- and B-type response regulator proteins were found to be localized in the nucleus only (Figure CITATIONB,C). The only exceptions were the A-type ARRs ARR3 and ARR16, which were found to be localized to the cytosol. However, a weak signal could also be detected in the nucleus. A comparison of the published data with our findings revealed an overlap for almost all investigated TCS proteins (Table CITATION). In a second step, the subcellular localization of identified interactors was determined by using the SUBA database.CITATION This resulted in 50 candidates with known subcellular localization among the 129 different prey proteins (CITATION). Of these interactors, three were identified as AHPs (AHP1, AHP2 and AHP3) which are localized to the cytosol according to the Arabidopsis database and our experimental data (Table CITATION), but have been shown to shuttle to the nucleus after induction by cytokinin.CITATION They interacted with almost all A- and B-type ARRs and the AHKs which were used as baits (Table CITATION). Furthermore, two interactors of AHP5 detected in the screens, the A-type ARR4 and the B-type ARR1, are also localized in the nucleus (Table CITATION). The other 45 proteins showed different localizations (e.g., cytosol, nucleus, mitochondria, plastid and plasma membrane). A comparison between the localization of the TCS proteins and their respective interaction partner showed a localization to the same subcellular compartment in most cases, thus, fulfilling an important prerequisite for in planta interaction. This further increased the confidence in the interactions detected in our screens (Tables CITATION and CITATION and CITATION). The interactors found in the yeast two-hybrid screens were further characterized by analyzing their respective functional annotations. For this purpose, the GO annotation of the TAIR database (TAIR7 release at www.arabidopsis.org) was used to group the interactors according to their functions. Some proteins play a role in several different processes and were therefore annotated for more than one category. Thus, in total, 304 functional annotations were assigned for the 160 interactors found in the screens. Most interactors fall into the little defined categories of “other metabolic processes” (17%) and “other cellular processes” (18%) or into the undefined category of “unknown biological processes” (18%) (Figure CITATION). Among those interactors having a clearly defined functional annotation, members of the categories “signal transduction” (9%) and “protein metabolism” (11%) are overrepresented, when compared to the other categories.
!~MM~! The full-length cDNAs encoding the TCS proteins were amplified either by PCR using a cDNA library from A. thaliana C24 CITATION or by RT-PCR using total RNA extract from A. thaliana Col-0 primary leaves as described previously.CITATION In the case of the receptors, we cloned the part encoding the cytoplasmic domains, as transmembrane domains are known to lead to misfolding in the Y2H. For the sequence of primers used in the different amplifications see CITATION. To screen for protein−protein interaction, a LexA DNA binding domain-based bait vector (pBTM116-D9, kind gift of E. Wanker, MDC Berlin, Germany)CITATION and a Gal4 activation domain encoding prey vector (pACT2, Clontech, Mountain View, CA), adapted to the GATEWAY system, were used in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae, strain L40ccua (MATa his3Δ200 trp1-901 leu2-3,112 LYS2::(lexAop)4-HIS3, URA3::(lexAop)8-lacZ, ADE2::(lexAop)8-URA3, GAL4 gal80 can1 cyh2).CITATION Of the six cDNA libraries used in the screens, four were derived from total RNA obtained from seedlings, hormone-treated seedlings, flowers and seeds, respectively. These libraries were generated in the pENTR1A vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and shuttled into the prey vector by in vitro recombination.CITATION The remaining two cDNA libraries were derived from root cell culture (courtesy of C. Koncz, MPI Cologne, Germany) and from seedlings (TAIR stock CD4−22, kindly provided by A. Theologis, Berkeley, CA) and were already cloned in the pACT2 vector (Clontech, Mountain View, CA). The Y2H transformations were conducted based on the LiAc method as described beforeCITATION and the selection scheme was performed as shown in CITATION. For the pull-down assay, the cDNAs were cloned by in vitro recombination using the GATEWAY system into the pDEST15 vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), for the expression as GST-tag fusion proteins. For the expression as His-tag fusion proteins, cDNAs were cloned either by in vitro recombination or by PCR-amplification, restriction and subsequent ligation into the pDEST17 vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). For the ligation-mediated cloning, the cDNA-inserts of the interacting prey clones were amplified using the following primers: sense, 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′; and antisense, 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′. Subsequently, the PCR products were digested using Bsp1407I (Fermentas, St. Leon Rot, Germany) and ligated into the pDEST17 using T4-DNA-Ligase (Fermentas, St. Leon Rot, Germany). Protein expression, purification and in vitro interaction assays were performed using the MagneGST pull-down system (Promega, Madison, WI) as described previously.CITATION Subcellular localization experiments were done by expressing the respective cDNAs as a GFP-fusion protein in onion epidermal cells under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter (pB7WGF2).CITATION The constructs were transformed into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment using a biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Gold particles (1.6 μm) were coated with the respective plasmid and a helium pressure of 9 MPa (rupture disks, 1350 psi) was employed. The distance between target stop screen and onion cells was set to 9 cm. After bombardment, onion epidermis cells were incubated in the dark from 24 to 48 h at 26 °C and subsequently examined under a fluorescence microscope (Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany).
