!~ABS~! Salt stress and abscisic acid (ABA) induce accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plant cells. ROS not only act as second messengers for the activation of salt-stress responses, but also have deleterious effects on plant growth due to their cytotoxicity. Therefore, the timing and degree of activation of ROS-producing or ROS-scavenging enzymes must be tightly regulated under salt-stress conditions. We identified a novel locus of Arabidopsis, designated itn1 (increased tolerance to NaCl1), whose disruption leads to increased salt-stress tolerance in vegetative tissues. ITN1 encodes a transmembrane protein with an ankyrin-repeat motif that has been implicated in diverse cellular processes such as signal transduction. Comparative microarray analysis between wild-type and the itn1 mutant revealed that induction of genes encoding the ROS-producing NADPH oxidases (RBOHC and RBOHD) under salt-stress conditions was suppressed in the mutant. This suppression was accompanied by a corresponding reduction in ROS accumulation. The ABA-induced expression of RBOHC and RBOHD was also suppressed in the mutant, as was the case for RD29A, an ABA-inducible marker gene. However, the ABA-induced expression of another marker gene, RD22, was not impaired in the mutant. These results suggest that the itn1 mutation partially impairs ABA signaling pathways, possibly leading to the reduction in ROS accumulation under salt-stress conditions. We discuss the possible mechanisms underlying the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1 mutant.
!~RES~! It has been reported that altered levels of fatty acid desaturation in membrane lipids, caused by overexpression of ω-3 desaturase genes, result in increased tolerance of plants to osmotic stress (CITATION). To determine whether the levels of ω-3 desaturation in membrane lipids affect the tolerance of Arabidopsis to salt stress, we compared salt-stress tolerance levels in wild-type plants with those in a mutant line, JB101, which contains a nonsense mutation in the FAD7 gene encoding an ω-3 fatty acid desaturase (CITATION). The JB101 line survived for 5 days on medium containing 200 mm NaCl, although almost all the wild-type plants died under the same conditions (Figure 1a,b). As shown in Figure 1(c), NaCl treatment decreased the fresh weights of shoots in wild-type plants, but this treatment did not markedly affect the fresh weights of shoots in the JB101 line. A similar result was also obtained when tissue damage was monitored in leaves by ion leakage, an indicator of plasma membrane damage, after 2 days of incubation on medium containing 200 mm NaCl (Figure 1d). Thus, the JB101 line is more tolerant to salt stress than wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] To confirm whether disruption of the FAD7 gene was responsible for this increased tolerance to salt stress, we isolated a T-DNA insertion allele of FAD7 (SALK_049635), and examined its tolerance to salt stress. Unexpectedly, however, there were no obvious differences in the extent of tolerance to salt stress between the T-DNA insertion line and the wild-type plants (Figure 1a,b). Additionally, the wild-type FAD7 gene did not complement the salt-tolerant phenotype of the JB101 line (data not shown). These results suggested that the increased tolerance to salt stress in the JB101 line was not due to the fad7 mutation. The salt-tolerant phenotype has now been separated from the fad7 locus by genetic recombination, suggesting that the JB101 line carries at least two mutations, one in the FAD7 gene and a second mutation in an unidentified gene involved in salt sensitivity. We have designated this gene as itn1 (increased tolerance to NaCl1). The itn1 phenotype segregated as a single recessive Mendelian trait when crossed with Col-0 (observed segregation results: 104 wild-type and 46 itn1 phenotype plants; expected: 112.5 wild-type and 37.5 itn1 phenotype plants; n = 150, χ2 = 0.109). As shown in Figure 2(a), genetic mapping revealed that the ITN1 locus is located in a 56 kb region on chromosome 3. By genomic DNA sequencing of this region, we found a single point mutation (C→T) in the open reading frame of the At3g12360 gene. To confirm that this mutation was responsible for the salt-tolerant phenotype of the JB101 line, we introduced the wild-type At3g12360 gene into the JB101 line by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Expression of the wild-type At3g12360 gene complemented the salt-tolerant phenotype of the JB101 line (Figure 1b), suggesting that At3g12360 is the wild-type ITN1 gene. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that the salt-tolerant phenotype of JB101 is not dependent on the fad7 mutation, we examined salt tolerance in two lines of itn1–itn1-1 and itn1-T. The itn1-1 homozygous line was selected from F3 progeny resulting from crosses between JB101 and wild-type plants, and does not contain the fad7 mutation. The itn1-T homozygous line is an Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutant (GABI 366G12) that contains an insertion in the second exon of ITN1. Both lines showed lower proportions of damaged seedlings under salt-stress conditions, compared with wild-type plants (Figure 1b). This result strongly supports the conclusion that disruption of ITN1 causes increased tolerance to salt stress. In further experiments, we used the itn1-1 single mutant line to investigate the physiological role of ITN1, because this line exhibits a more severe phenotype than the itn1-T line. In RT-PCR experiments using primers that amplify sequences downstream of the T-DNA insertion site, ITN1 transcript was detected in the itn1-T line (Figure 2c). It might be therefore possible that a truncated version of the ITN1 protein, with a deletion at the N-terminus, may be produced and partially functional in this line. The ITN1 gene consists of 2350 bp between the start and stop codons. It is organized into four exons and three introns (Figure 2b). The itn1-1 mutation occurs in the third exon. Genomic DNA sequencing revealed that the itn1-1 mutation changed a glutamine codon (CAG) into a stop codon (TAG). ITN1 encodes a novel protein containing ankyrin repeats and putative transmembrane regions. The deduced ITN1 protein consists of 590 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 64 135 Da and a predicted pI of 9.44. The N-terminal region (72 amino acids) does not match any peptides with known functions. The middle part contains seven ankyrin repeats, based on the SMART protein domain prediction program (http://www.smart.embl-heidelberg.de). The C-terminal region contains four predicted transmembrane helices. A database search using the deduced amino acid sequence of ITN1 identified cDNA clones from Lotus japonicus (IGN1) and Oryza sativa (Os03g0281000), which encode proteins highly homologous to ITN1. Their deduced amino acid sequences show 79.4% and 71.1% identity, respectively, with ITN1. It was previously reported that the IGN1 protein is essential for nitrogen-fixing symbiosis between L. japonicus and Rhizobium bacteria (CITATION). However, the exact biochemical functions of these proteins are yet to be characterized. To investigate the expression pattern of ITN1, we performed RT-PCR using RNA extracted from various organs (Figure 3a). Although ITN1 was expressed in all organs examined, higher expression of this gene was observed in green tissues than in roots and flowers, as previously reported (CITATION). This is consistent with our results indicating that the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1-1 mutant is observed mainly in shoots. [[FIGURE]] To further examine its expression in various tissues, we used the GUS reporter gene. A 0.9 kb 5′ upstream sequence from ITN1 was ligated with the GUS reporter gene, and the resulting ITN1 promoter–GUS construct was introduced into wild-type plants. A histochemical analysis of the transgenic plants revealed that GUS activity was highest in vascular tissues (Figure 3b), suggesting that ITN1 might be expressed most highly in these tissues. To investigate the subcellular localization of ITN1, a construct was produced in which ITN1 was fused to GFP. The construct was transiently expressed in living onion epidermal cells, which were then subjected to analysis by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Although the TargetP program (CITATION) made no prediction regarding the most likely location of ITN1, the fluorescence image showed a clear localization of GFP to the cell periphery (Figure 3c). For this experiment, we used both intact and plasmolyzed onion epidermal cells, which allowed us to differentiate between localization within the cell wall and within the plasma membrane. Our results indicate that ITN1–GFP is localized to the plasma membrane. To analyze the effect of salt stress on ITN1 expression, levels of the ITN1 transcript were evaluated in shoots and roots of Arabidopsis exposed to high-salt conditions for various periods of time. Northern blots revealed that the ITN1 transcript was present in shoots under normal conditions, but the amount of the transcript increased after exposure of plants to salt stress (Figure 4a). A salt-induced accumulation of ITN1 transcript was also detected in roots by RT-PCR analysis (Figure 4b). We also analyzed the effects of other abiotic stresses and ABA on ITN1 expression. As shown in Figures 4(a) and 6(b), accumulation of ITN1 transcripts was induced by drought, but not by cold, osmotic stress (mannitol treatment) or ABA. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Salt stress causes both hyper-ionic and hyper-osmotic stresses. To determine whether the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1-1 mutant results from an ionic effect, an osmotic effect, or both, we examined the development of chlorosis in mutant and wild-type plants on media containing various salts (NaCl, Na2SO4 or KCl) or non-ionic osmotic reagent (mannitol). On the media containing 200 mm NaCl or 100 mm Na2SO4, development of chlorosis in leaves was delayed in the itn1-1 mutant compared with the wild-type plants (Figures 1a and 5). By contrast, on the media containing 200 mm KCl or 300 mm mannitol, there was no obvious difference in the timing of chlorosis development between the mutant and wild-type plants (Figure 5). These results suggested that the itn1-1 mutation might affect tolerance to ionic stress, especially Na+ stress, rather than to non-ionic osmotic stress. Results consistent with these were obtained when ion leakage was measured from leaves of mutant and wild-type plants under various stress conditions (Table 1). In most cases, the measurements were performed 1 day before the appearance of visible chlorosis in the wild-type plants. However, the data for plants under osmotic stress were obtained after the appearance of chlorosis, because we could not measure ion leakage from the leaves of these plants at an earlier time. [[FIGURE]] Seven-day-old seedlings were treated with NaCl, KCl, Na2SO4 or mannitol. Data are means ± SE (n = 5). We also analyzed the drought tolerance of the itn1-1 mutant by measuring the rate of water loss from leaves under drought-stress conditions. We found no obvious differences in sensitivity to drought stress between this mutant and wild-type plants (data not shown). These results suggest that ITN1 functions in the responses of plants to Na+ stress. We found that ITN1 was highly expressed in vascular tissues (Figure 3b). It has been proposed that vascular tissue is an important site for proline catabolism (CITATION), ABA biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION) and Na+ transport (CITATION). Proline and ABA are known to play roles in adaptation of plants to salt stress (CITATION; CITATION). Maintenance of Na+ and K+ homeostasis is also thought to be crucial under salt-stress conditions (CITATION). This raises the possibility that the increased tolerance to salt stress in the itn1-1 mutant might be due to changes in levels of these cellular components. We quantified the levels of ABA, proline, Na+ and K+ in NaCl-treated or mock-treated vegetative tissues of mutant and wild-type plants. There were no obvious differences between the mutant and the wild-type plants with respect to the levels of these cellular components (Table 2). Therefore, the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1-1 mutant cannot be explained by alterations in proline catabolism, ABA biosynthesis or cation uptake. Seven-day-old seedlings were treated with 200 mm NaCl for 1 day or mock-treated. Data are means ± SE (n = 5). FW, fresh weight. DW, dry weight. To explore the biological role of ITN1, a microarray experiment was performed using RNA from NaCl-treated or mock-treated vegetative tissues of itn1-1 mutant and wild-type plants. The genes represented on the ATH1 arrays were assigned to functional categories using unbiased gene ontology (GO) statistical analysis (CITATION). We focused our analysis on molecular function annotations and GO terms represented by at least two genes from our data set. For each of these GO terms, the ratios of the transcript signals from the itn1-1 and wild-type plants were determined and averaged. No category was found to be expressed at a level at least twofold higher or lower in the itn1-1 mutants than the wild-type plants under normal growth conditions. On the other hand, under salt-stress conditions, genes in five categories were found to be up- or downregulated by at least twofold in the itn1-1 mutants compared with the wild-type plants with significance at P < 0.05 (Table S1). The category ‘(+)-abscisic acid 8′-hydroxylase activity’ contains genes involved in abscisic acid catabolic processes, and these genes were expressed at levels that were 2.7-fold lower in the itn1-1 mutants than in the wild-type plants. However, because the ABA content of the itn1-1 mutants was not considerably different from that of the wild-type plants, the reduction in expression levels in this category is probably not responsible for the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1-1 mutant. Three categories ‘phosphoric ester hydrolase activity’, ‘oxygen evolving activity’ and ‘protochlorophyllide reductase activity’ contain genes involved in photosynthesis, and these genes showed mean expression levels that were at least twofold higher in the itn1-1 mutants than in the wild-type plants. It has been proposed that the expression of many photosynthesis-related genes is down regulated under salt-stress conditions (CITATION). The higher expression of genes in these categories in the itn1-1 mutant may result from increased tolerance to salt stress. The category ‘NAD(P)H oxidase activity’ contains genes encoding enzymes involved in the generation of ROS, and the mean expression level of genes in this category was 2.3-fold lower in the itn1-1 mutants than in the wild-type plants. Furthermore, the expression levels of many genes known to be induced by ROS (CITATION) were suppressed in the itn1-1 mutants, compared with the wild-type seedlings, as shown in Table S2. Salt stress is known to cause accumulation of ROS, which are highly toxic. Therefore, the reduced expression levels of NADPH oxidase genes may be responsible for the salt-tolerant phenotype of the itn1-1 mutant. To verify a subset of the microarray data, the expression of three NADPH oxidase genes, RBOHC, RBOHD and RBOHF, was evaluated in mutant and wild-type plants by RT-PCR (Figure 6a). The expression of these genes was induced in response to salt stress in the wild-type plants. In agreement with the microarray data, the salt-responsive induction of these genes was markedly suppressed in the itn1-1 mutant. To confirm that suppression of the NADPH oxidase genes affected ROS levels in the itn1-1 mutant, the accumulation of H2O2 was measured in situ by precipitation of polymerized 3,3-diaminobenzidine (DAB). An intense brown precipitate was observed in wild-type plants after exposure for 4 days to 200 mm NaCl (Figure 7), indicating high levels of H2O2. The DAB staining intensity was greatly reduced in the itn1-1 mutant compared with the wild-type plants. These results suggest that the itn1-1 mutation may somehow suppress induction of the NADPH oxidase genes in response to salt stress, resulting in lower levels of H2O2, and this may be the cause of the salt-tolerant phenotype. However, salt-stress induction of these genes is not completely abolished in the itn1-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] It is known that expression of RBOHD and RBOHF is induced by ABA (CITATION). To investigate whether the itn1-1 mutation affects the induction of the NADPH oxidase genes by ABA, the expression levels of RBOHC, RBOHD and RBOHF were evaluated in the mutant and the wild-type plants by RT-PCR. ABA treatment (100 μm) strongly induced expression of RBOHC and RBOHD in the wild-type plants (Figure 6b). We did not detect ABA induction of RBOHF expression in the wild-type plants (data not shown), even though this gene was previously shown to be ABA-inducible. In the itn1-1 mutant, induction of RBOHC and RBOHD expression in response to ABA treatment was suppressed (Figure 6b). The expression levels of two other ABA-inducible genes, RD29A and RD22, were also evaluated. Interestingly, expression of RD22 was induced in response to ABA treatment in the itn1-1 mutant at similar levels to those in the wild-type plants; however, expression of RD29A was not induced in this mutant. These results suggest that the itn1-1 mutation inhibits a branch of the ABA signal transduction pathway regulating the expression of RBOHC, RBOHD and RD29A. We also investigated the expression levels of RBOHC, RBOHD and RBOHF in the itn1-1 mutant and wild-type plants under ozone, drought and osmotic stress conditions (Figure S1). It is known that expression of RBOHD is induced by ozone (CITATION), and that drought and osmotic stress activate the ABA signal transduction pathway (CITATION). There were no obvious differences in the induction of these genes between the itn1-1 mutant and wild-type plants after these stress treatments. This result is consistent with the idea that the mutant phenotype is specific for salt stress. ABA mediates various physiological processes in plants, such as stomatal closure and inhibition of seed germination (CITATION). To investigate whether ITN1 is involved in these ABA-mediated responses, we measured stomatal apertures and seed germination rates of mutant and wild-type plants in the presence of exogenous ABA. After ABA treatment (10 μm), stomatal pores closed to 2.17 ± 0.14 μm in the itn1-1 mutant and 2.67 ± 0.18 μm in the wild-type plants (mean ± SE, n = 60), suggesting that the itn1-1 mutant is not ABA-insensitive. As shown in Figure S2, the itn1-1 seeds germinated at a similar rate to that of wild-type seeds on plates containing ABA (0–1 μm). These results suggest that the itn1-1 mutant responds normally to ABA during stomatal closure and seed germination.
!~MM~! All lines of Arabidopsis thaliana described here were derived from the Columbia wild-type. The mutant JB101 line (CITATION) and the SALK_049635 line are available from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University. The mutant itn1-1 line was isolated from the progeny of a cross between JB101 and wild-type plants. The GABI 366G12 line (designated itn1-T) was obtained from the GABI-Kat consortium at the Max Planck Institute. Unless otherwise stated, plants were routinely grown at 22°C under continuous white light on solid MS medium (CITATION) containing 1% w/v sucrose and 0.5% w/v gellan gum. Seedlings were used for experiments at 7 days after germination. For salt or osmotic stress, seedlings were transferred onto fresh media supplemented with 200 mm NaCl, 200 mm KCl, 100 mm Na2SO4 or 300 mm mannitol. For cold stress, the plastic dishes containing the seedlings were transferred to 4°C. For drought stress, seedlings were removed from the agar medium and dehydrated in plastic dishes. Ozone treatment was performed as described previously (CITATION). For ABA treatment prior to RT-PCR analysis, 100 μm ABA solution (mixed isomers dissolved in 0.1% ethanol/0.01% Tween-20) was sprayed directly onto the shoots. Plasmid DNAs used in this study are listed in Table S3. A 3.9 kb fragment containing the full-length ITN1 gene and a 0.9 kb fragment containing the ITN1 promoter were amplified by PCR from wild-type genomic DNA. A 1.8 kb ITN1 cDNA fragment was amplified by RT-PCR using total RNA from wild-type plants as the template (CITATION). All PCR products were sequenced to confirm the absence of PCR errors. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral dipping method (CITATION). Positive transformants were selected on agar medium supplemented with 30 μg ml−1 hygromycin as described previously (CITATION). The fresh weight of each individual seedling shoot was measured immediately after harvest. Ion leakage from leaves was measured as described previously (CITATION). An F2 mapping population was established by crossing the JB101 line with the wild-type ecotype Landsberg erecta. The F2 plants were screened for homozygous itn1 mutants, and these were used for analysis with DNA markers flanking ITN1. Total RNA was isolated using TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Blotting, labeling of DNA probes, and hybridization were performed as described previously (CITATION). ITN1 DNA probes were amplified by PCR from the ITN1 cDNA using primers 5′-CAGAAGTTGTGAACCAGC-3′ and 5′-TGAGCTCGGTTGCATTGTTGATCCC-3′. We used 0.4 μl of the reverse transcription reactions as templates in 10 μl PCR reactions. RT-PCR was performed using specific primers for each gene (Table S4) and PCR reactions as follows: ITN1, 94°C for 1 min, then 26 cycles of 94°C for 20 sec, 58°C for 20 sec and 72°C for 30 sec; RBOHC, RBOHD, RBOHF, RD22 and RD29A, 94°C for 1 min, then 25 cycles for RBOHC, RBOHD and RBOHF, 28 cycles for RD22 or 31 cycles for RD29A of 94°C for 20 sec, 54°C for 20 sec and 72°C for 20 sec; ACT2, 94°C for 1 min, then 23 cycles of 94°C for 20 sec, 48°C for 20 sec and 72°C for 30 sec. Histochemical GUS staining was performed as described previously (CITATION). DAB staining was performed as described by CITATION. The mean index of DAB stain per unit area was estimated using the nih image program (National Institutes of Health, http://www.nih.gov/). Plasmid DNAs for analysis of GFP expression were introduced into onion epidermal cell layers as described previously (CITATION). For cell plasmolysis, the onion epidermal strips were exposed to 1 m sucrose. GFP fluorescence was monitored using confocal laser scanning microscopy as described previously (CITATION). Seedlings were treated with 200 mm NaCl or mock-treated for 1 day and then harvested. The contents of ABA were determined as described by CITATION). The levels of proline were determined as described by CITATION). The levels of Na+ and K+ were determined as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from shoots of seedlings treated with 200 mm NaCl or mock-treated for 2 days. cDNA synthesis, cRNA labeling and hybridization on the GeneChip Arabidopsis ATH1 genome array were performed using an automated hybridization station (Bio Matrix Research, http://www.biomatrix.co.jp/). The GeneChip operating software was used to evaluate probeset signals on the array. The generated datasets were analyzed using the GeneSpring GX software package for normalization and estimation of signal intensities. By selection of probesets that were ‘present’, this dataset was reduced from 22 746 to 13 882 probesets for seedlings under normal conditions, and to 14 467 probesets for seedlings under salt-stress conditions. Stomatal apertures and seed germination rates were measured as described previously (CITATION).
