!~ABS~! Appropriate methylation of genomes is essential for gene regulation. Here, we describe the six-member ORTHRUS (ORTH) gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana that plays a role in DNA methylation in vivo. ORTH1− ORTH5 are predicted to encode proteins that contain one plant homeodomain (PHD), two really interesting new gene (RING) domains, and one set ring associated (SRA) domain, whereas ORTHlike-1 encodes a protein with only one RING and SRA domain. cDNAs for ORTH1, ORTH2, ORTH5 and ORTHlike-1 were isolated, and when expressed as glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins, were capable of promoting ubiquitylation in vitro with the E2 AtUBC11. ORTH1 promotes ubiquitylation when paired with additional AtUBC8 family members. ORTH1 proteins with substitutions in metal–ligand binding residues in each ORTH1 RING domain individually, and ORTH1 truncation derivatives lacking one or both RING domains, were tested for their ability to catalyze ubiquitylation in vitro. In these assays, either ORTH1 RING domain is capable of promoting ubiquitylation. The PHD alone is not active as an E3 ligase, nor is it required for ligase activity. GFP-ORTH1 and GFP-ORTH2 are nuclear-localized in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Overexpression of ORTH1 or ORTH2 in Arabidopsis leads to an altered flowering time. Inspection of DNA methylation at FWA and Cen180 repeats revealed hypomethylation when ORTH proteins were overexpressed. Once initiated, a late-flowering phenotype persisted in the absence of the ORTH transgene, consistent with epigenetic effects at FWA. We conclude that ORTH proteins are E3 ligases mediating DNA methylation status in vivo.
!~RES~! Inspection of the Arabidopsis predicted proteome for multiple RING domain-containing proteins identified five members of the ORTHRUS/VIM family and a related protein ORTH-LIKE1 (ORL1/VIM6). ORTH proteins contain an N-terminal PHD and two RING domains flanking an SRA domain (Figure 1a, upper). ORL1/VIM6 is missing the N-terminal PHD and C-terminal RING domain, but contains the SRA and N-terminal RING domains. Proteins with both SRA and RING domains are referred to here as SRA-RING proteins. Mammalian SRA-RING proteins have an altered domain organization compared with plant ORTH proteins, with an N-terminal ubiquitin-like domain and an SRA domain that is flanked N-terminally by a PHD and C-terminally by a RING domain (Figure 1a, lower). [[FIGURE]] Additional Arabidopsis proteins contain an SRA domain without a PHD or RING domain. These include ones with a SET domain (referred to here as SRA-SET proteins), as well as those without any other described protein–protein interaction domain (SRA-only). The SRA domains of all Arabidopsis SRA-RING family members were compared with selected SRA-RING proteins from other species, and with the other Arabidopsis SRA-SET and SRA-only proteins (Figure 1b). Phylogenetic analysis using the entire protein results in the same conclusions (Figure S1 and data not shown). Within the AtORTH family, ORTH1, ORTH4 and ORTH5 form a clade (Figure 1a). ORTH1 has 95% similarity to ORTH4 and 91% amino acid identity to ORTH5 across the entire protein, and ORTH4 and ORTH5 have overall 99% amino acid and 99% nucleotide identity. In contrast, ORTH1 is 70% and 62% identical to ORTH2 and ORTH3, respectively, and ORTH2 and ORTH3 have 73% amino acid identity. Interestingly, ORTH2 and ORTH3 (At1g57820 and At1g57800, respectively) are separated by only one predicted pseudogene, and ORTH4 and ORTH5 (At1g66040 and At1g66050, respectively) are similarly separated one predicted open reading frame apart, suggesting that duplication events gave rise to the ORTH2/ORTH3 and ORTH4/ ORTH5 pairs. Comparisons of the SRA domains reveal that the SRA-RING proteins of Arabidopsis have greater similarity to SRA-RING proteins from chordates, than they do to Arabidopsis SRA-SET proteins. This implies that SRA-RING proteins were present in the common ancestor of plants and animals. In contrast, the plant-specific Arabidopsis SRA-SET proteins are present in a clade with the SRA-only proteins, suggesting that they are more closely related to each other than to the SRA-RING proteins. To determine which genes are expressed, effort was expended to isolated cDNAs for all six members. cDNAs were isolated for ORTH1, ORTH2, ORTH5 and ORL1 using RT-PCR. Attempts to isolate cDNAs for ORTH3 and ORTH4 failed using TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org) annotations for their predicted open reading frames. Thus, the expression of ORTH3 and ORTH4 is uncertain. The 99% nucleotide identity between ORTH4 and ORTH5 coding regions makes expressed sequence tag (EST)/cDNA gene assignments challenging. Two ORTH4 ESTs/cDNAs are listed on TAIR (1/08), but their sequences (GenBank EL177826 and EL265513) are 100% identical to both ORTH4 and ORTH5, and the clones are not available for further sequencing, so their assignment to a single locus cannot be made. The cDNA sequences that are ascribed to ORTH5 have few ORTH5-specific nucleotides, indicating that these are annotated correctly, and that there is no ORTH4 cDNA in that set. Only a single EST is listed for ORTH3, and this assignment appears to be correct. Thus, there is no evidence for expression of ORTH4, and there is scant evidence for ORTH3 expression. These data suggest that only a subset of ORTHs significantly contribute to ORTH activity in vivo. The RING domain is associated with the ability to function in ubiquitin transfer (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), although not all RING proteins demonstrate in vitro E3 ligase activity. The murine SRA-RING domain-containing protein mUHRF1 is active in in vitro ubiquitylation assays with the E2 UBCH5B (CITATION). To determine if ORTH proteins function as E3 ligases, full-length ORTH1, ORTH2, ORTH5 and ORL proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli as glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusions, purified on glutathione beads and tested for the ability to promote ubiquitylation in vitro, as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). All three ORTH proteins were active with the Arabidopsis E2 UBC11 (Figure 2a) and as expected, omission of E1, E2 or ORTH protein eliminates the attachment of ubiquitin to higher molecular weight proteins. Similarly, ORL1, which lacks the C-terminal RING and N-terminal PHD, was also active (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] We asked whether ORTH proteins require a specific E2 or E2s for activity. UBC11 is a member of the UBC8 family of Arabidopsis E2s (CITATION). ORTH1 was tested with additional E2s of the UBC8 family (UBC8, UBC10, UBC28, UBC29 and UBC30), as well as with members of three other E2 subgroups (UBC27, UBC32, UBC34 and UBC36) (CITATION). ORTH1 shows robust activity with UBC8 family members UBC8, UBC10 and UBC11 (Figure 2b). ORTH1 also shows activity, albeit diminished, with other more divergent UBC8 family members UBC28 and UBC29 (Figure 2b). ORTH1 was not active with the other E2s tested; UBC34 (Figure 2b) and UBC27, UBC30, UBC32 and UBC36 (data not shown). Thus, recombinant GST-ORTH1 is most active in vitro with E2s from the UBC8 subfamily. To determine the domain associated with the E3 ligase activity of ORTH1, codons for conserved metal–ligand residues in the PHD and each RING domain were individually targeted for mutagenesis. These residues have been shown for many RING proteins to be essential for ligase activity (CITATION; CITATION). Codons for the PHD metal–ligand binding positions 3–6, for the N-terminal RING metal–ligand binding positions 3–6 or for the C-terminal RING metal-ligand binding positions 4 and 5 were mutagenized to encode alanine, creating proteins called mPD for mutant PHD, mNR for mutant N-terminal RING and mCR for mutant C-terminal RING (Figure 3a). When these GST-ORTH1 fusion proteins were tested for ubiquitylation activity with UBC8, all three retained robust activity in end-point assays (Figure 3b). Time course experiments to detect differences in ubiquitylation rates showed that activity of each mutant protein was largely unaffected relative to wild-type GST-ORTH1 (Figure 3c), indicating that alteration of one RING domain or the PHD does not dramatically interfere with the in vitro ubiquitylation activity of ORTH1. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the RING domain responsible for E3 ligase activity of ORTH1, the open reading frame was truncated to express GST-ORTH1 proteins lacking one or more domains; lacking either the C-terminal RING only (C-Trunc; Figure 4b), the C-terminal RING and SRA domains (P/NR; Figure 4c) or the PHD and N-terminal RING domains (SRA/CR; Figure 4d). These truncations were assayed with UBC11 in in vitro ubiquitylation assays, and were compared with the activity of the full-length protein (Figure 4a). All truncated proteins exhibited E3 ligase activity with UBC11, demonstrating that either RING domain can provide E3 ligase activity in vitro. The autoubiquitylation of these proteins can be seen in the anti-GST blots, visualized as slowed migration in the complete reactions only, resulting from covalent addition of ubiquitin to the GST-ORTH fusion protein (Figure 4, below each activity blot). [[FIGURE]] The contribution of the PHD to ubiquitylation activity was additionally tested by comparing the reactions of a truncated ORTH1 protein with only the PHD to that of the identical protein, except with substitutions in four of the eight metal–ligand binding residues in the PHD (mPHD; Figure 4e). In these reactions, there were faint higher molecular weight anti-ubiquitin immunoreactive bands, but the profile was identical between reactions with or without the ORTH-PHD (−E3 lanes) and reactions containing either ORTH-PHD or ORTH-mPHD (T lanes). There does not appear to be any ubiquitylation activity associated with the closely related PHD, at least in these in vitro assays. To determine the intracellular localization of ORTH proteins, constructs for expression of ORTH1 and ORTH2 in fusion with GFP were made and stably transformed into Arabidopsis. GFP was visualized by fluorescence microscopy and compared with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) nuclear staining. Both GFP-ORTH2 and GFP-ORTH1 co-localized with DAPI-staining nuclei (Figure 5a,b, respectively). Thus, ORTH1 and ORTH2 are located primarily in nuclei. [[FIGURE]] While producing plants for intracellular localization studies, we observed that GFP-ORTH1 and GFP-ORTH2 expressing transgenic plants exhibited delayed flowering, whereas GFP-ORL plants did not (data not shown and Figure S2). Similarly, CITATION recently reported that expression of GFP-ORTH2/VIM1 under the control of a constitutive promoter leads to a mild to moderate late flowering phenotype, whereas expression of GFP-ORL/VIM6 does not. To further explore the molecular basis of this effect, multiple T1 plants were analyzed for FWA expression. FWA is a homeodomain transcription factor completely silenced by DNA methylation in all cells of wild-type plants, except in the developing endosperm. Hypomethylation of the FWA promoter leads to ectopic expression, causing a late-flowering phenotype (CITATION). Using RNA extracted from leaf tissue, no expression of FWA is observed in wild-type plants, whereas varying levels of expression are seen in almost all independent T1s transformed with either GFP-ORTH1 or GFP-ORTH2 by real-time PCR of cDNA relative to ACTIN (Figure 6a). Further analysis by Southern blotting confirmed hypomethylation at the FWA promoter. Increased digestion of genomic DNA by the methylation-sensitive enzyme CfoI was present in all GFP-ORTH1- and GFP-ORTH2-expressing lines, compared with the negative control, untransformed Col ecotype (Figure 6b, upper panel). [[FIGURE]] A correlation is observed between FWA expression levels and FWA methylation levels throughout the independent T1s for both GFP-ORTH1 and GFP-ORTH2. Higher FWA expression is generally coincident with decreased methylation (GFP-ORTH2 #16), and lower FWA expression is coincident with a more wild-type level of methylation (GFP-ORTH2 #10). Noticeable late-flowering phenotypes are only observed in lines with the highest expression of FWA (GFP-ORTH2, #12, #15 and #16, data not shown). To test if the late-flowering phenotype was the function of a dominant negative form of ORTH protein caused by the GFP tag, an expression construct for untagged-ORTH1 was also introduced into Col under the control of the 35S promoter. Flowering time, expressed as the leaves present prior to transition to flowering, was measured in segregating T2 seedlings derived from independent T1s, and five of the 10 lines had an average leaf number higher than wild type (Figure S3a). This late-flowering phenotype was also associated with decreased methylation at the FWA locus (Figure S3b, top panel). Therefore, plants overexpressing either ORTH1/VIM3 or ORTH2/VIM1 exhibit a late-flowering phenotype that is likely to be caused by the ectopic expression of a hypomethylated FWA locus. Loss of ORTH2/VIM1 leads to decreased methylation at the heterochromatic Cen180 repeats (CITATION). To test if overexpression of ORTH family members affects methylation at the Cen180 repeats, in addition to the FWA locus, Cen180 Southern blots were performed on similarly digested genomic DNA from wild-type Columbia and transgenic lines. Decreased Cen180 DNA methylation was observed in GFP-ORTH1, GFP-ORTH2 and untagged-ORTH1 lines (Figure 6b and Figure S3b; lower panels). Finally, to test if FWA hypomethylation was stable in subsequent generations, T2 plants from two GFP-ORTH1 (#2, #3) and GFP-ORTH2 (#8, #16) lines were planted. The flowering time was measured, and plants were genotyped for the presence of the ORTH transgene. As expected, the average flowering time of all T2 lines was delayed relative to wild-type Columbia plants (Figure 6c). In addition, the presence or absence of the GFP-ORTH expressing transgene did not affect the flowering time (Figure 6c). This shows that ORTH overexpression in the T1 generation leads to a stable and heritable late-flowering phenotype.
!~MM~! The RING domain of Arabidopsis CIP8 was used in BLAST searches against the complete non-redundant Arabidopsis genome (TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org; also see CITATION). BLAST searches identified five proteins each with two RING domains, a PHD, and an SRA domain, as well as one protein with only a single RING and SRA domain. The SMART database was used to analyze retrieved sequences (Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool, version 4.0, http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de) followed by manual inspection to confirm the presence of the complete PHD/RING/SRA domains. The ClustalX program was used to generate an alignment of the ORTH protein sequence. The alignment was generated using a PAM350 protein matrix, with gap opening and gap extension penalty parameters of 35.0 and 0.75, respectively, in pairwise alignment, and 15.0 and 0.3, respectively, in the multiple alignments (CITATION). The MacClade sequence editor (Sinauer Associates Inc., http://www.sinauer.com) was used to manually edit the alignment. The phylogenetic trees were created by PAUP* 4.0 (Sinauer Associates, Inc.) using the neighbor-joining method with 1000 bootstrap replicates. Arabidopsis ORTH cDNAs were cloned by reverse transcription (RT) reactions, followed by PCR to amplify the predicted open reading frame (ORF) and recombined into Gateway pDONR vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). RNA was isolated from either 10-day-old Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 seedlings or floral tissue from 6- to 7-week-old plants using Qiagen RNeasy plant RNA extraction kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) following manufacturer’s instructions. The DNA sequence was identical to the predicted ORF (http://www.arabidopsis.org). ORTHs were expressed in bacteria as GST fusions from pDEST15-based plasmids (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). Quik-Change site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com) was used to make a series of point mutations in RING-domain metal–ligand codons. Truncations were made with gene-specific primers with in-frame stop codons using cDNA clones as templates, and the sequences were verified. The positions of truncations (nucleotide relative to ATG) are as follows: PHD only, nt 198; PHD and N-terminal RING, nt 675; no C-terminal RING, nt 1476. The protein with the SRA and C-terminal RING domains contains nucleotides from 676 to stop. ORTH1 and ORTH2 coding regions were recombined into the pGWB6 binary transformation vector for localization studies (CITATION). Overexpression of tagless ORTH1 was achieved by recombination into pYL TAP C-t, but with a stop codon present (CITATION). GST-ORTH fusions were expressed in E. coli strain BL21 AI or BL21-pLysS. Transformed cells were grown at 37°C for 2–3 h, or to an OD600 of 0.4–0.6 before induction with 0.2% arabinose or 0.5 mm isopropyl-β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), respectively, for 2–3 h at 25°C. Cells were harvested by centrifugation and were then lysed in a buffer containing 25 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 500 mm NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100. For purification, glutathione agarose (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) was added to cleared lysates and incubated for 1 h at 4°C. Beads were then washed four times with wash buffer containing 25 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 300 mm NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100. GST fusion proteins were eluted with elution buffer containing 25 mm Tris–HCl, pH 8.1, 50 mm glutathione and 0.1% Triton X-100. Glycerol was added to the eluted protein to a final concentration of 40%. Proteins were stored at −80°C until needed. Ubiquitylation reactions (30 μl) containing 50 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mm MgCl2, 0.05 mm ZnCl2, 1 mm ATP, 0.2 mm dithiothreitol, 10 mm phosphocreatine, 0.1 unit creatine kinase (Sigma-Aldrich), 50 ng yeast E1 (Boston Biochem, http://www.bostonbiochem.com), 250 ng of recombinant Arabidopsis E2 (CITATION), 500 ng of GST-ORTH and 2 μg ubiquitin (Sigma-Aldrich) were incubated at 30°C for 2 h. For histone ubiquitylation assays, 2 μg of crude bovine nucleosomes (Sigma-Aldrich) were added to the ubiquitylation reaction. Reactions were stopped by adding 6 μl of 5× SDS-PAGE sample buffer [125 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 20% (v/v) glycerin, 4% (w/v) SDS and 10% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol], and were then analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by western blotting using ubiquitin and/or GST antibodies, as described previously (CITATION). All transgenes were expressed in ecotype Arabidopsis (A. thaliana) ecotype Columbia (Col). Seed was surface-sterilized with 30% (v/v) bleach and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, and were grown on GM containing 1% (w/v) agar with 1× MS salts (Sigma-Aldrich) under continuous light. Seedling roots were examined for GFP expression using a Nikon Optiphot 2 fluorescent microscope with a Nikon Super High Pressure Mercury Lamp power supply, model HB-10101AF (Nikon, Melville, NY, USA). Images were captured by a QImaging Retiga 1300 camera and QCapture 2.68.2 software (Quantitative Imaging Corporation, http://www.qimaging.com). Six micrograms of RNA extracted from adult leaf tissue (Trizol; Invitrogen) was converted to cDNA (First Strand; Invitrogen). FWA transcript levels were analyzed by semiquantitative real-time PCR, using primers JP3130 (CCCACCAAGATCTGAAGTCC) and JP3133 (CAGGTGCAATGGTGGTGTAT), and internal primer M12 (CCTTCGGGATTTTCGATAGTGCCA). ACTIN was used to standardize cDNA levels, and was quantified with primers JP2452 (TCGTGGTGGTGAGTTTGTTAC) and JP2453 (CAGCATCATCACAAGCATCC), and visualized with Brillant SYBR Green QPCR Master Mix (Stratagene). DNA was extracted from leaves or flowers of recently bolted plants using a slightly modified cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB)/sarkosyl method (CITATION). For Cen180 Southern blots, 0.5–1 μg of DNA was digested with HpaII overnight and run for 4 h on a 1% agarose gel, and was then transferred to membrane. The membrane was incubated overnight with radiolabeled probe for Cen180 bp repeats (CITATION). After washing, the membrane was exposed to film for 4 h. FWA Southern blots were performed as previously described (CITATION).
