!~ABS~! Three reading frames called ccmFN1, ccmFN2, and ccmFc are found in the mitochondrial genome of Arabidopsis. These sequences are similar to regions of the bacterial gene ccmF involved in cytochrome c maturation. ccmF genes are always absent from animal and fungi genomes but are found in mitochondrial genomes of land plant and several evolutionary distant eukaryotes. In Arabidopsis, ccmFN2 despite the absence of a classical initiation codon is not a pseudo gene. The 3 ccmF genes of Arabidopsis are expressed at the protein level. Their products are integral proteins of the mitochondrial inner membrane with in total 11 to 13 predicted transmembrane helices. The conserved WWD domain of CcmFN2 is localized in the inter membrane space. The 3 CcmF proteins are all detected in a high molecular mass complex of 500 kDa by Blue Native PAGE. Direct interaction between CcmFN2 and both CcmFN1 and CcmFC is shown with the yeast two-hybrid split ubiquitin system, but no interaction is observed between CcmFN1 and CcmFC. Similarly, interaction is detected between CcmFN2 and apocytochrome c but also with apocytochrome c1. Finally, CcmFN1 and CcmFN2 both interact with CCMH previously shown to interact as well with cytochrome c. This strengthens the hypothesis that CcmF and CCMH make a complex that performs the assembly of heme with c-type apocytochromes in plant mitochondria. 
!~RES~! ccmF in Mitochondrial Genomes—In plants, ccm genes were inherited from the α proteobacterial ancestor of mitochondria. Presently, some lineages have retained Ccm proteins, their genes are encoded in both mitochondria and the nucleus. Still, ccmF genes are only found in mitochondria. A high number of complete mitochondrial genomes covering the entire diversity of eukaryotic lineages have become available (CITATION). We have searched mitochondrial genomes deposited in GOBASE (rel. 21, 2008) (gobase.bcm.umontreal.ca/) to try to understand the evolutionary history of ccmF genes among eukaryotes. ccmF, similar to all ccm genes has been lost from all holozoa (including animals) and from fungi. In viridiplantae, ccmF genes are absent from all the 10 mitochondrial genomes of chlorophytes available (including Mesostigma). In land plants including the bryophyte Marchantia polymorpha and the moss Physcomitrella patens fully sequenced to date (CITATION, CITATION), ccmF genes are always found. ccmF is also found in a wide array of other lineages: in charophytes, Rhodophytes, alveolates, Discicristata, and jako-bids (CITATION) (Fig. 1A). For all these lineages, ccmF is found in some species but not in all of them. Altogether, the presence of ccmF genes in evolutionary distant lineages, in some mitochondrial genomes, but not in all of them in the respective lineages, suggest that ccmF genes were lost from mitochondrial genomes at several time points during the evolution of eukaryotes. In particular in viridiplantae, the sequence data available suggests that they were lost at least twice: at the separation between streptophytes and chlorophytes and during the evolution of charophytes.  The Orthologue of Bacterial ccmF Is Encoded by Multiple Genes in Land Plants—In land plants, beyond the 16 fully sequenced mitochondrial genomes, ccmF genes are also found in all the incomplete genomic sequences available, in mitochondrial genomes of evolutionary distant organisms, such as e.g. Ginkgo or Amborella. Thus it appears to be strictly conserved in land plants. However, in this lineage, contrary to bacteria, ccmF is not encoded by single genes. ccmF has been split in multiple genes, each orthologue to different domains of the bacterial ccmF (Fig. 1B). This separation is differential according to species. In most plants, ccmF is split into 2 genes, e.g. in wheat (CITATION, CITATION). In M. polymorpha, the part encoding the C-terminal end of ccmF is further split in 2 genes (CITATION). In Brasicacea such as Arabidopsis the part encoding the N-terminal end of ccmF is encoded by 2 genes (CITATION, CITATION). Thus, the 3 Arabidopsis ccmF genes are named ccmFN1, ccmFN2, and ccmFC. ccmFN2 that encodes the highly conserved WWD domain does not start by an ATG initiation codon (CITATION). The 3 Arabidopsis ccmF sequences have an estimated 1027 codons, as compared with the 647 of ccmF in E. coli. This difference is explained by the presence of large insertions in plant between the regions of high sequence conservation between prokaryotes and eukaryotes (Fig. 1B).  The Three Arabidopsis ccmF Genes Are Translated—Gene expression has been documented for ccmF genes for various plant mitochondrial genomes. In wheat, the translation of CcmFN and CcmFC has also been reported (CITATION, CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the absence of the ATG initiation codon in ccmFN2 suggested that ccmFN2 could be a pseudo gene. However, transcription and RNA editing had been observed for the 3 Arabidopsis ccmF genes (CITATION). Still, in plant mitochondria, many sequences and reading frames are transcribed but not translated (CITATION, CITATION). Similarly, RNA editing has been observed for pseudogene transcripts (CITATION). A recent study where Arabidopsis mitochondrial transcript ends were mapped by circular reverse transcriptase-PCR shows that no ATG codon has been brought in 5′ of ccmFN2 by trans-splicing (CITATION), nor RNA editing (CITATION). Thus we had to test whether the 3 ccmF were indeed translated and that ccmFN2 was not a pseudo gene. Therefore, we raised antibodies against peptides representing the 3 CcmF. The antibodies were used to probe Arabidopsis cell fractions. Single bands were detected in the mitochondrial fractions only, at 42, 30, and 60 kDa for CcmFN1, CcmFN2, and CcmFC antibodies, respectively (supplementary Fig. S1A). These sizes correspond to the calculated sizes of the proteins, 382, 203, and 442 amino acids long, respectively. For the CcmFN2 reading frame, we calculated its predicted size starting from a GUG codon (see below). Thus, it confirms that the 3 CcmF proteins, including CcmFN2, are indeed translated. The quality of cell fractionation was assessed with antibodies directed against cytosolic, chloroplastic, and mitochondrial proteins. The exact position of CcmFN2 translation start, however, remains uncertain. A precise answer would be brought by the direct N-terminal sequencing of CcmFN2 purified from Arabidopsis mitochondria.  The antibodies were also used with mitochondrial extracts from other plants. The CcmFN2 antibodies detect bands of 53 and 58 kDa for wheat mitochondria. The 58-kDa protein is only detected in a soluble protein fraction thus suggesting that it is not CcmFN, whereas the band of 53 kDa corresponds to the calculated size of wheat CcmFN and is mostly found in a membrane fraction. For CcmFC, as expected, a band of 60 kDa is detected in both wheat and Arabidopsis mitochondrial extracts. These results confirm at the protein level the differential organization of ccmF genes between wheat and Arabidopsis (supplementary Fig. S1B).  Submitochondrial Localization and Topology of CcmF Proteins—The submitochondrial localization, the biochemical properties, and the topologies of the 3 Arabidopsis CcmF proteins were investigated to establish whether they correspond or not to the predicted function of CcmF. Mitochondria were fractionated into soluble and membrane fractions. The antibodies detected signals in the membrane fractions only for CcmFN1, CcmFN2, and CcmFC (Fig. 2A). Membrane proteins were further fractionated into peripheral and intrinsic membrane proteins by alkaline treatment. The 3 CcmF proteins were all found to be intrinsic membrane proteins. In bacteria, the topology of Rhodobacter CcmF was determined by fusing PhoA and LacZ to the predicted soluble domains of CcmF and by measuring the corresponding enzymatic activities (CITATION, CITATION). We used this data as well the ConPred II transmembrane and the topology prediction program (CITATION) to build topology models for the 3 Arabidopsis CcmF proteins (Fig. 2B). CcmFN1 could have 3 to 5 transmembrane helices, and CcmFN2 2 or 3 transmembrane helices. CcmFC, however, has a clear prediction of 6 helices. We investigated experimentally the topology of the CcmF proteins by preparing mitoplasts (mitochondrial matrix and inner membrane) and digesting them with trypsin. The 3 CcmF proteins were detected in the mitoplast fraction, indicating that they are localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. After trypsin digestion, the 42-kDa band of CcmFN1 was reduced to 35 kDa, the 30-kDa band of CcmFN2 was unchanged, and the 60-kDa signal of CcmFC was nearly undetectable (Fig. 2A). For CcmFN1, all models give trypsin cleavage sites of the C-terminal domain accessible in the intermembrane space. Their cleavage result as observed in a shorter 35-kDa protein, which can be detected, indicates that the peptide used as an epitope is indeed oriented toward the matrix. Similarly, for CcmFC, accessible cleavage sites are located in the third intermembrane space loop. Their cleavages result in the generation of small proteins, as short as 4.8 kDa containing the antibody epitope and not detectable here. Accordingly, the 60-kDa signal disappeared for CcmFC. For CcmFN2, trypsin cleavage sites present at the N-terminal end of the protein are not accessible to the protease in any of the two models. Trypsin sites are also present in the C-terminal domain including the CcmFN2 epitope. With a 3 transmembrane domains model, these sites would be accessible on the outside of mitoplasts, whereas with the 2 transmembrane domains model, the sites are localized in the matrix. Here, the inner membrane appears to have protected the C-terminal domain from digestion, thus the 2 helices model is privileged. The tryptophan-rich WWD domain is present in a large loop, in the intermembrane space (Fig. 2B). Altogether, the results designate the 3 CcmF proteins as intrinsically attached to Arabidopsis mitochondrial inner membranes, with the conserved WWD domain oriented toward the intermembrane space. These features are in agreement with the predicted function of CcmF.    [[FIGURE]] The Three CcmF Proteins Are Detected in a Complex of 500 kDa—Because the 3 Arabidopsis CcmF proteins are similar to different domains of a single bacterial protein, we investigated whether in plant mitochondria, these 3 proteins could be assembled in a single complex that would be the functional orthologue of bacterial CcmF. For this, we first used one- and two-dimensional Blue Native gels. We prepared mitochondrial membranes and solubilized their complexes with digitonin. The complexes were separated according to their sizes on one-dimensional Blue Native PAGE. For the second dimension their respective subunits were resolved on SDS-PAGE. One- and two-dimensional gels were transferred on membranes and reacted with the CcmF antibodies. For one-dimensional experiments, each antibody detected a signal corresponding to a 500-kDa complex (Fig. 3A). Two-dimensional experiments were then performed to verify that the 500-kDa signals truly corresponded to CcmF proteins. For CcmFN1 a signal at 42 kDa corresponding to complexes ranging from 470 to 620 kDa was detected, the strongest signal was for a 500-kDa complex. For CcmFN2, a double signal was observed at 30 kDa corresponding to complexes of 500 and 600 kDa. Finally, for CcmFC, a unique signal at 60 kDa, corresponding to a complex of 500 kDa was observed (Fig. 3B). Thus, the 3 CcmF proteins are indeed all detected in complexes of 500 kDa. This does not prove a direct interaction between the 3 Arabidopsis CcmF proteins but strongly suggests that they are, together with other proteins, in particular CCMH that was also found in a 500-kDa complex (CITATION), all part of a cytochrome c maturation complex.  The Three CcmF Proteins Can Be in Direct Interaction—The direct interaction of the 3 Arabidopsis CcmF proteins was investigated by “split ubiquitin,” a genetic system derived from yeast two-hybrid, designed for membrane-bound hydrophobic proteins (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, a protein of interest is fused to the C-terminal domain of ubiquitin followed by the PLV transcription factor (XCub constructs). A second protein of interest is fused in N- or C-terminal to a mutated version of the N-terminal domain of ubiquitin (XNub and NubX constructs). If an interaction takes place between the 2 proteins of interest, the functional ubiquitin is reconstituted and ubiquitin-specific proteases release the transcription factor, which migrates to yeast nucleus and activates the expression of reporter genes. We cloned full-length cDNA fragments corresponding to fully edited transcripts of CcmFN1, CcmFN2, and CcmFC into split ubiquitin vectors. We first cotransformed the XCub constructs with the respective Nub empty vectors and plated them on medium lacking leucine, tryptophan, adenine, and histidine (–LWAH). This was done to control that XCub fusion proteins were bound to membranes and could not freely diffuse to yeast nucleus to activate the expression of the reporter genes ADE2 and HIS3 without protein interaction. FN1 Cub, FN2 Cub, and FC Cub alone were as expected unable to activate the reporter genes (Fig. 4). Then, we cotransformed the XCub constructs with all the XNub and NubX constructs and plated them on -LWAH. For FN1 Cub, we observed growth with FN2 constructs, for FN2 Cub, growth was observed with both FN1 and FC constructs, and for FC Cub, with FN2 constructs (Fig. 4A). This shows that CcmFN2 can interact with CcmFN1 and CcmFC, whereas CcmFN1 cannot interact with CcmFC. These interactions were also monitored by the activation of lacZ, a third reporter gene. Background levels were estimated with wild-type yeast cells (Fig. 4B). The signals resulting from the interaction of CcmFN2 with CcmFN1 and with CcmFC were found to be on average 10 times higher than background levels, whereas with double transformants from CcmFN1 and CcmFC constructs, β-galactosidase activity never raised significantly above background levels (Fig. 4B). The results show that CcmFN2 can interact with both CcmFN1 and CcmFC and thus suggest that the 3 mitochondrial encoded Arabidopsis CcmF proteins are assembled in vivo into a protein complex that reconstitute a bacterial-like CcmF.    [[FIGURE]] CcmFN2 Interacts with c-Type Apocytochromes—Because the assembly of heme with c-type cytochromes was predicted to take place at the level of CcmF (CITATION, CITATION), we analyzed whether one or all the plant mitochondrial CcmF proteins were able to bind c-type apocytochromes, i.e. apocytocrome c and/or apocytochrome c1. Similar to what is described above, we cloned apocytochrome c and apocytochrome c1 in split ubiquitin vectors. We controlled that the apocytochrome c1 Cub construct did not activate alone the expression of reporter genes. The soluble apocytochrome c Cub fusion protein was logically not attached to membranes and could alone activate the expression of reporter genes (Fig. 5A). Therefore, interaction with apocytochrome c could only be tested with Nub constructs. We cotransformed the apocytochrome c1 Cub construct with all the CcmF Nub and NubF constructs and the CcmF Cub constructs with the apocytocrome c and apocytochrome c1 XNub and NubX constructs. For the apocytochrome c1 Cub construct, we observed growth with the FN2 constructs only, for FN2 Cub growth was observed with both apocytocrome c and apocytochrome c1 constructs. For the FN1 Cub and FC Cub constructs, no growth was observed with any of the apocytochrome c and apocytochrome c1 constructs (Fig. 5A). The activation of lacZ gave similar results to that of ADE2 and HIS3 (Fig. 5B). The results show that CcmFN2 can interact with both c-type apocytochromes and suggest that in vivo the assembled CcmF indeed interacts with c-type apocytochromes at the level of CcmFN2.  Two CcmF Proteins Interact with CCMH—Because apocytochrome c had been found to interact with CCMH as well in a previous study (CITATION), the interaction of CcmF proteins with CCMH was also investigated. First, split ubiquitin assays showed that CCMH Cub fusion proteins could interact with both CcmFN1 and CcmFN2 Nub fusions, but not with the CcmFC fusion (Fig. 6A). Then, to better characterize the regions responsible for these interactions, the four largest domains of CcmF proteins, localized in the intermembrane space according to our topology models (Fig. 2), were cloned in yeast two-hybrid vectors. Interactions were tested against the D1 domain of CCMH localized as well in the intermembrane space (CITATION). The activation of reporter genes was observed when the CCMH-D1 AD construct was co-transformed with CcmFN1 domain 5 and with CcmFN2 domain 2 constructs but not with CcmFN1 domain 3 and CcmFC binding domain 6 constructs (Fig. 6B). This suggests that CCMH can interact with CcmF at the level of both CcmFN1 and CcmFN2 and that these interactions are, at least in part, mediated by two domains localized in the intermembrane space in CcmFN1 and CcmFN2.  Overall, these results together with previous work (CITATION) suggest that the attachment of heme to c-type apocytochromes is done in cooperation with CCMH at the level of CcmF. 
!~MM~! Phylogenic Analysis—CcmF protein sequences were aligned with the Muscle version 3.52 program (CITATION). The poorly aligned and too divergent positions were removed from alignment using Gblocks 0.91b program (CITATION). A phylogenetic analysis was performed using PhyML (CITATION) and 100 boostraps support. The unrooted tree (Fig. 1A) was drawn with Treedyn (CITATION).  Cell Fractionation and Purification of Mitochondria—Arabidopsis thaliana var. Landsberg erecta suspension cultures were maintained in a Gamborg G0210 basal medium containing 1 mg/liter 2.4-Dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and 2% (w/v) sucrose (pH 5.8). Cell cultures of 100 ml were maintained in 250-ml conical flasks in the dark at 22 °C on a rotary shaker at 150 rpm. Every 7 days, 10 ml of the culture was subcultured into 100 ml of fresh media. Five-day-old cultures were used for the preparation of sub-cellular fractions as described previously (CITATION). For mitochondrial extraction, cells were harvested by filtration through 100μm nylon mesh and mitochondria were extracted and purified by Percoll gradient centrifugation as described previously (CITATION). Mitochondria were fractionated into mitoplast, membrane, and soluble fractions as described previously (CITATION). The membrane fraction was subjected to alkaline treatment (0.1 m Na2CO3, pH 11.5, for 30 min at 4 °C) to extract peripheral proteins.  Blue Native PAGE—Mitochondrial membrane complexes were resolved by Blue Native PAGE in the first dimension followed by SDS-PAGE in the second dimension as described previously (CITATION). 400 μg of mitochondrial membrane proteins were resuspended in ACA750 buffer containing 750 mm amino dicaproic acid, 50 mm bis-Tris,4 and 0.5 mm Na2EDTA (pH 7.0). Protein complexes were solubilized with digitonin, 5/1 detergent/protein (w/w) for 30 min on ice, centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C, and 5% (v/v) Serva blue solution (750 mm ACA750 solution, 5% (w/v) Serva Blue G250) was added to the supernatant. For the first dimension, mitochondrial complexes were separated on 5–13% acrylamide (in 0.5 m amino dicaproic acid, 50 mm bis-Tris, pH 7.0, buffer) gradient gels, with 50 mm bis-Tris (pH 7.0) anode buffer and 50 mm Tricine, 15 mm bis-Tris, 0.02% (v/v) Serva Blue G-250 (pH 7.0) cathode buffer. Electrophoresis was carried out overnight at 5 mA. Gel lanes were cut out and denatured for 1 h at room temperature in 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 1% (w/v) SDS, and 1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol. For the second dimension, subunits of the various complexes were separated by SDS-PAGE according to the method of Schagger and von Jagow (CITATION).    Antibodies and Immunodetection—Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against LDAWRFRGSREGKRTH for CcmFN1 (amino acids 189–204) and MKQQASVRRTYKKEM for CcmFN2 (amino acids 163–177) peptides coupled to ovalbumin, and PSLLRQLQKDKLRWN (amino acids 428–442) for CcmFC coupled to KLH. SDS-PAGE and Blue Native gels were transferred to PVDF Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore). After blocking, membranes were incubated overnight with serum at dilutions of 1/20,000 for CcmFN1 and CcmFN2, 1/500 for purified CcmFC antibodies, 1/100,000 for wheat Nad9 (CITATION), 1/10,000 for tobacco MnSOD (CITATION), 1/40,000 for Arabidopsis TRXh3 (CITATION), 1/20,000 for Chlamydomonas LHC II (CITATION), 1/50,000 for yeast Cytc1 (obtained from G. Schatz, Basel), and 1/5,000 for Arabidopsis CCME (CITATION). Goat anti-rabbit antibodies conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences) were used as secondary antibodies and visualized with enhanced chemiluminescent reagents (Amersham Biosciences).  Protein Interactions by the Split Ubiquitin System—cDNA fragments representing the full-length Arabidopsis CcmFN1, CcmFN2, CcmFC, apocytochrome c (At1g22840), apocytochrome c1 (At5g40810), and CCMH (CITATION) were amplified by PCR with oligonucleotides containing B1 and B2 recombination sites necessary for the entry of the cDNA fragments into vectors by in vivo recombination in yeast (sequences available upon request to authors). PCR products were recombined with linearized pMet-X-Cub-PLV, pX-NubG, and pNubG-X vectors also containing B1 and B2 sites (CITATION) to obtain “XCub, XNub, and NubX” constructs. XCub constructs express a fusion between the protein of interest, the C-terminal domain of ubiquitin, and the chimeric transcription factor PLV consisting of protein A, LexA, and VP16 under control of the methionine repressible pMET25 promoter. XNub and NubX constructs express N-terminal and C-terminal fusions of the protein of interest with the N-terminal domain of ubiquitin (containing a point mutation that abolishes its ability to associate spontaneously with Cub) and the 3HA epitope, under the control of the pADH promoter. XCub constructs were transformed by heat shock in the haploid yeast strain AP4 (MATa), and XNub and NubX constructs in the haploid yeast strain AP5 (MATα) according to standard methods (CITATION). Transformation in yeast was controlled by the growth on –Leu and –Trp media (-LW). Protein interaction was monitored by the expression of the reporter genes ADE2, HIS3, and lacZ. The expression of ADE2 and HIS3 was visualized by the growth on –Ade–His media (-AH). The expression of lacZ was followed by measuring at OD420 the accumulation of the product metabolized by β-galactosidase with 2.2 mm 2-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside (Sigma) as substrate.    [[FIGURE]] Yeast Two-hybrid Assays—cDNA fragments representing domain 3 (residues 50–80) and domain 5 (residues 240–382) of CcmFN1, domain 2 of CcmFN2 (residues 40–165), and domain 6 of CcmFC (residues 262–409) were cloned in pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors (Clontech) to express proteins fused to the DNA-binding domain and the activation domain (AD) of GAL4. Interaction assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). 
