!~ABS~! The functional genomics approach requires systematic analysis of protein subcellular distribution and interaction networks, preferably by optimizing experimental simplicity and physiological significance. Here, we present an efficient in planta transient transformation system that allows single or multiple expression of constructs containing various fluorescent protein tags in Arabidopsis cotyledons. The optimized protocol is based on vacuum infiltration of agrobacteria directly into young Arabidopsis seedlings. We demonstrate that Arabidopsis epidermal cells show a subcellular distribution of reference markers similar to that in tobacco epidermal cells, and can be used for co-localization or bi-molecular fluorescent complementation studies. We then used this new system to investigate the subcellular distribution of enzymes involved in sphingolipid metabolism. In contrast to transformation systems using tobacco epidermal cells or cultured Arabidopsis cells, our system provides the opportunity to take advantage of the extensive collections of mutant and transgenic lines available in Arabidopsis. The fact that this assay uses conventional binary vectors and a conventional Agrobacterium strain, and is compatible with a large variety of fluorescent tags, makes it a versatile tool for construct screening and characterization before stable transformation. Transient expression in Arabidopsis seedlings is thus a fast and simple method that requires minimum handling and potentially allows medium- to high-throughput analyses of fusion proteins harboring fluorescent tags in a whole-plant cellular context.
!~RES~! We developed a transient expression method based on batch infiltration of young Columbia (Col-0) seedlings by Agrobacterium that allows rapid and robust monitoring of protein localization and interaction in Arabidopsis seedlings. Briefly, seedlings were grown in six-well plates for 3–4 days on regular Arabidopsis medium. Seedlings were then submerged in an Agrobacterium tumefaciens culture and vacuum-infiltrated twice for 1 min. Agrobacterium solution was then discarded, and the seedlings were grown for a further 3 days before observation (Figure 1a). Vacuum infiltration tended to force young seedlings down on the medium, which was systematically associated with a low transformation rate and high autofluorescence. In contrast, a high number of transformed cells were observed on seedlings that were still erect after vacuum infiltration. A sterile polyvinyl grid (0.5 mm grid) was thus placed on the medium prior to sowing to provide a holding frame for the young seedlings and to prevent their collapse after infiltration (Figure S1). In the absence of a grid, we usually obtained few transformed seedlings (<20%), but its presence tripled the transformation yield (see below). Compared to vacuum- or syringe-based infiltration of rosette leaves, this method has the advantages of being fast (less than a week for plant growth), requiring minimum handling, being completed in vitro, and generating a high number of transformed cells and seedlings in a limited space. [[FIGURE]] Transient transformation was monitored by using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 strain carrying the binary pGWB2 vector which allows the expression of a 35S:GFP construct (CITATION; CITATION). GFP fluorescence was recorded using either a stereo or confocal microscope (Figure 1a). Most of the GFP fluorescence was observed in the cotyledons, scattered in individual cells or within cell patches (Figure 1a and Figure S2). Occasional GFP fluorescence was also observed in young leaves and petioles (Figure S2). Various cell types were successfully transiently transformed. Epidermal and mesophyll cells were routinely transformed, but stomata guard and companion cells, as well as epidermal cells at the cotyledon edges, could also be transformed (Figure 1b–e). Roots showed a high level of autofluorescence, which prevented easy observation of GFP fluorescence, but were not transformed (Figure 1a). Failure to transform root cells was not due to the GFP reporter, as infiltration with 35S:GUS did not lead to any detectable GUS activity in roots (Figure S3). However, GUS expression in cotyledons showed a pattern similar to that observed for GFP constructs, demonstrating that the seedling infiltration method could be used successfully for various types of constructs (Figure 1a and Figure S3). Arabidopsis seedlings with GFP-expressing cells were used to estimate the efficiency of cotyledon cell transformation. First, we investigated the influence of the Agrobacterium infiltration medium on transformation efficiency, as it has been reported that its composition can affect the rate of Arabidopsis transformation (CITATION). The infiltration medium used for floral dip stable transformation, based on 5% sucrose and 0.01% Silweet, did not lead to any detectable transgene expression and produced a high seedling mortality rate. We tested other infiltration media containing 10 mm MgCl2 and 200 μm acetosyringone and buffered or not with 5 mm MES at pH 5.6. These media resulted in more than 50% of seedlings being transformed (68 and 58%, respectively) (Figure 2a). We then replaced the magnesium salts by sucrose, which resulted in a further increase in transformation efficiency (approximatively 75% GFP-positive seedlings) (Figure 2a). Vacuum infiltration (10 mmHg pressure) also appeared to be essential, as the seedling transformation rate was reduced by half when vacuum was not applied (Figure S4). The best results were observed with two successive vacuum infiltrations. [[FIGURE]] The effect of Agrobacterium concentration on transient transformation of seedlings was determined by testing various bacterial densities in the culture and infiltration media. We did not test the efficiency of various Agrobacterium strains as it was previously reported that the laboratory strain C58C1 was the most competent for transforming Arabidopsis (CITATION). Bacteria were harvested at three growth stages, i.e. the exponential phase [attenuance at 600 nm (OD600) = 0.5], and the early (OD600 = 1) and late (OD600 = 5) stationary phases. For each culture phase, five bacteria concentrations were used for infiltration. Transient transformation efficiency was directly correlated with Agrobacterium concentration in both the culture and the infiltration medium (Figure 2b). The highest efficiency (92% of transformed seedlings) was obtained with a saturated culture (OD600 = 5) and the most concentrated infiltration solution (OD600 = 2) (Figure 2b). Bacteria from saturated cultures could still achieve a reasonably good transformation yield (>50%) even at low infiltration densities (≥0.01), while bacteria from low-density cultures required higher infiltration densities (>0.5) to achieve similar yields. We also determined the cellular transformation efficiency for each transformed plant by counting the number of GFP-expressing cells per cotyledon. As expected, the number of transformed cells per cotyledon was directly correlated with Agrobacterium density in the culture and infiltration medium (Figure 2c). However, the bacterial density of the culture seemed to have a greater influence on the efficiency of cell transformation, as use of fully saturated cultures doubled the number of transformed cells compared to early stationary phase cultures. Increasing the Agrobacterium density in the infiltration medium improved the transformation yield by only 20–35%, except for OD600 = 0.5 (Figure 2c). In conclusion, a saturated Agrobacterium culture associated with a high infiltration density led to >90% transformed seedlings, with, on average, 25% of epidermal cotyledon cells expressing the GFP marker. Finally, we investigated the influence of the origin of Arabidopsis accession lines on the transient transformation efficiency (Figure 2d). We tested the widely used accessions Columbia 0 (Col-0), Landsberg erecta (Ler), Wassilewskija (WS), C24 or Cape Verde Islands (CVi), and also accessions used to generate recombinant inbred lines, such as Bay-0 or Shadarah (Sha). The accessions showed significant variations in transformation yield, with Ler and Cvi being the most (85%) and the least (30%) susceptible accessions, respectively. We observed differences among the Arabidopsis accessions not only with regard to the yield of seedling transformation but also the efficiency of transient expression at the cell level. For instance, Ler showed a much higher number of GFP-expressing cells per cotyledon than Col-0 (73 ± 23 and 8 ± 3%, respectively, with an infiltration OD600 of 1). Having obtained a high transformation rate of seedlings, we then tried to co-express into cotyledon cells two constructs carried in two independent Agrobacterium strains. For this purpose, we co-transformed seedlings with 35S:GFP and 35S:mRFP1-AtYPC1 constructs that encode fluorescent proteins localized in the cytosol and nucleus (GFP) and in the ER (AtYPC1). A large number of cells were able to co-express both fluorescent proteins (Figure S5). We then monitored the effect of Agrobacterium culture and infiltration density on the number of plants showing GFP and mRFP1 co-expressing cells (Figure 3a). Similar to the single transformation experiments, an increase of Agrobacterium concentration in the infiltration medium up to an OD600 of 2 had a positive effect on co-transformation yield, with almost 60% of seedlings showing co-transformation events. Above an OD600 of 2, the high infiltration density reduced co-transformation efficiency, especially when bacteria were grown at low density (Figure 3a). We then evaluated the number of GFP and mRFP cells that co-expressed both markers (Figure 3b and Table S1). In contrast to seedlings, the yield of co-transformed cells was not greatly affected by Agrobacterium concentration in the culture or the infiltration medium. Around 17–19% of transformed cells expressed both the GFP and mRFP1 markers, whatever the concentration of Agrobacterium. However, there were two exceptions: first, the highest culture concentration (OD600 = 5) and infiltration concentration (OD600 = 4) significantly reduced the number of co-transformed cells (12%), and second, an OD600 of 1 and 2 for the culture and infiltration medium, respectively, led to the highest yield of co-transformed cells (26%). Finally, to further improve the co-transfomation rate, we also determined the influence of seedling age on the ability to co-express two markers. During initial tests on transient expression, we had noticed that seedlings growing for less than 3 days or more than 4 days showed much lower transformation efficiency than 3–4-day-old seedlings. Indeed, after 2 days of growth, only 15% of seedlings were co-transformed, compared to 65–70% for 3- and 4-day-old seedlings (Figure 3c). Similarly, 6- and 8-day-old seedlings showed reductions in co-transformation efficiency to 45 and 27%, respectively. The co-transformation yields for 3- and 4-day-old seedlings were then compared at various Agrobacterium concentrations in the infiltration medium (Figure 3c). Three-day-old seedlings showed a higher co-transformation rate compared to four-day-old seedlings, mainly at low Agrobacterium concentration (OD600 = 0.1 and 0.5). At higher concentration (OD600 = 2), transformation competency was similar between the two ages of seedlings. [[FIGURE]] We then assessed whether our protocol for transient expression in Arabidopsis epidermal cells could be used to systematically investigate protein subcellular distributions. We first chose to express at least one representative marker of the best characterized subcellular compartments (Table S2). Transient expression in cotyledon epidermal cells labeled various membrane compartments such as ER, plasma membrane, Golgi, nucleolus and tonoplast, and also organelles such as mitochondria, peroxisomes and plastids (Figure 1f–o). As shown previously, the cytosolic and nuclear compartments could also be labeled (Figure 1b–e). We then used our transient expression system to investigate the subcellular distribution of proteins by systematic co-localization with known markers. To demonstrate the potential of our method, we focused our study on the enzymes involved in the metabolism of a specific class of lipids, the long-chain-base (LCB) precursors of sphingolipids. Lipids in general, and sphingolipids in particular, are molecules for which subcellular localization is difficult to determine. One way to partially address the problem is to localize the enzymes that synthesize and modify these molecules. The LCB sphinganine is synthesized from palmitoyl CoA and serine, and is used to produce the sphingolipid ceramide. Alternatively, LCBs can be phosphorylated by LCB kinases and probably act as LCB-1P lipid messengers, which are either dephosphorylated by a LCB phosphatase or degraded by an LCB-1P lyase. In yeast, most of this metabolic pathway is localized in the ER (CITATION). Altogether, these enzymatic reactions represent six major enzymes that are potentially encoded by a total of ten genes in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To better characterize this metabolic pathway, the corresponding cDNAs were systematically cloned as N- and C-terminal fusions in GFP and mRFP1 Gateway expression vectors (CITATION) (Table S3). Of the 36 available FP constructs, ten were not functional in tobacco (mainly GFP–X and mRFP1–X), among which three were still not functional in Arabidopsis (Table 1). In seven cases, the FP constructs gave a fluorescence signal in Arabidopsis but not in tobacco, demonstrating that homologous expression systems are preferable to investigate protein expression. To address the subcellular distributions of the various enzymes, FP constructs were co-transformed with known subcellular markers into Arabidopsis seedlings and also into tobacco leaves for comparison (Figure 4a–i and Table 1). The lyase AtDPL1 was the only protein among our dataset that had been previously characterized as associated with the ER (CITATION). As expected, AtDPL1 was observed in the ER in Arabidopsis seedlings for all the FP configurations tested (Table 1 and Figure 4g). The subcellular distribution was often similar in both expression systems. However, we observed two cases (LOH3 and LOH1) for which ambiguous localizations occurred in the heterologous tobacco system. The position of the FP tag led to a clear difference in protein subcellular distribution. The most striking examples were observed with the putative LCB hydroxylases (AtSUR2A and AtSUR2B), ceramidase (AtYPC1) and ceramide synthases (LOH1, LOH2 and LOH3). For these six proteins, all the FP–X constructs showed ER localization, but the X–FP constructs accumulated in the Golgi apparatus (Figure S6). Comprehensive databases of information on the subcellular distribution of Arabidopsis proteins, such as SUBA (CITATION; http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/applications/suba2/index.php), did not provide a clear conclusion (Table S4), stressing the need for experimental validation of subcellular localizations. The fact that all these enzymes are associated with the ER in yeast and mammals strongly suggests that the FP–X construct indicates the true subcellular localization (CITATION; CITATION). The presence of an ER-retrieving such a KxxK or KxK in the C-terminus of three of these proteins (Table S4) suggests that C-terminal addition of an FP tag exerts a masking effect (CITATION; CITATION). The two putative LCB kinases AtSPHK1 and AtSPHK2 were found to be associated with the tonoplast (AtSPHK2) and the mitochondria (AtSPHK1) (Figure 4h,i). The mitochondrial localization of SPHK1 was confirmed by most of the predictions in the SUBA database (Table S4). Only one protein of the ten (the putative phosphatase AtLCB3) showed an ambiguous subcellular distribution that could not be resolved using the four construct combinations in the two expression systems. Indeed, the phosphatase AtLCB3 FP constructs did not give any signal in tobacco, and only one construct was functional in Arabidopsis but was associated with variable subcellular distribution (Table 1). ER, endoplasmic reticulum; G, Golgi; M, mitochondria; PM, plasma membrane; N, nucleus; Ch, chloroplast; Cy, cytosol; T, tonoplast; ND, not detected; NA, not available. Proteins for which the localization is given as ‘ambiguous’ showed different localizations in different cells. [[FIGURE]] Finally, we investigated whether transient co-transformation of Arabidopsis seedlings could also be used for detection of protein–protein interactions by BiFC. We evaluated BiFC in Arabidopsis seedlings using the Deficiens (Def) and Globosa (Glob) proteins from Arabidopsis for which an interaction has previously been reported in the nucleus and cytosol (CITATION; CITATION). Co-transformation with the N-terYFP–Def and C-terYFP–Glob fusion proteins in Arabidopsis epidermal cells showed clear YFP fluorescence signals in the nucleus and cytosol, as expected (Figure 4k). To demonstrate the specificity of the Def–Glob BiFC interaction, we used the cytosolic protein AKINβγ as a negative control (CITATION). Co-transformation of N-terYFP–Def and C-terYFP–Glob with C-terYFP–AKINβγ and N-terYFP–AKINβγ fusion proteins, respectively, did not give any detectable YFP signal (Figure 4j and data not shown).
!~MM~! Sterile Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sown on a sterile filter (Saatitech, http://www.saati.com, reference PA500/38, pore size 500 μm) placed on Arabidopsis agar medium (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com) in six-well culture plates (TPP, http://www.tpp.ch, reference 92406) and stratified for 2 days at 4°C. Seedlings were grown for 4 days (18°C temperature, 60% humidity, 16/8 h day/night cycle) prior to infiltration. Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells of strain C58C1 GV3101 (CITATION) with pMP90 helper plasmid and transformed with the various constructs were grown overnight in 5 ml pre-culture (2YT liquid medium: 16 g l−1 bacto-tryptone, 10 g l−1 yeast extract, 5 g l−1 NaCl, pH 7), and used to inoculate a 30 ml culture (2YT liquid medium). After overnight growth at 28°C, A. tumefaciens cells were collected and resuspended at the appropriate OD600 in 2 ml of 5% sucrose, 200 μm acetosyringone. Three other infiltration media were tested in this study: (i) 10 mm MgCl2, (ii) 10 mm MgCl2 and 5 mm MES pH 5.6, and (iii) 5% sucrose and 0.01% Silweet (http://www.agridyne.fr). In the case of co-infiltration, each culture was equally diluted in 4 ml to achieve the final infiltration concentration as measured by the OD600. Infiltration was performed by covering the seedlings with the Agrobacterium solution and by applying vacuum (10 mmHg) twice for 1 min. Excess infiltration medium was subsequently removed and the plates were transferred to a culture room for 3 days (same growth conditions as above). Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were agro-infiltrated as previously described (CITATION). Gateway cloning (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) was performed by amplifying full-length cDNA with and without stop codons with respectively, the primer pairs Gene1-F and Gene1-R1 or Gene1-F and Gene1-R2 (containing half attB1 and attB2 sequences). A second round of PCR was performed using full-length attB1 and attB2 primers (94°C for 3 min, then 25 cycles of 94°C for 30 sec, 55°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 2 min), and PCR products were purified using a Nucleospin extract kit (Macherey-Nagel, http://www.macherly-nagel.com). PCR products were introduced into the pDONR207 vector (Invitrogen), via recombination with a BP reaction (Gateway, Invitrogen). An LR reaction was used to transfer cDNAs from the resulting entry vectors to the appropriate destination vectors pB7WGF2, pB7FWG2, pK7WGR2 or pK7RWG2 (CITATION) according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). GUS staining was carried out as described previously (CITATION). For confocal microscopy, 7-day-old seedlings were incubated for 30 min in 15 μm propidium iodide, and cotyledons were imaged using an inverted TCS-SP2-AOBS spectral confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica, http://www.leica.com). GFP and YFP samples were excited with 488 or 514 nm argon laser lines, respectively, with an emission band of 495–540 nm for GFP detection, 520–560 nm for YFP detection, 605–660 nm for propidium iodide, and 675–765 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence. Co-localization experiments using GFP and mRFP1 constructs were performed simultaneously using the same settings as above for GFP detection and the 594 nm HeNe laser and an emission band of 600–645 nm for mRFP1. The mRFP1 settings were used to localize mCherry constructs as described above. The number of transformed cells was determined using Optimas software (Imasys, http://www.imasys.com). Images of whole seedlings and cotyledons were taken using a Nikon SMZ1500 stereomicroscope with GFP band-pass and long-pass filters (Nikon, http://www.nikon.com). All quantitative data on the number of seedlings or cells expressing fluorescent constructs were obtained from at least two independent experiments. At least two Arabidopsis infiltrations were performed for each experiment.
