!~ABS~! SR proteins are multidomain splicing factors which are important for spliceosome assembly and for regulation of alternative splicing. In mammalian nuclei these proteins localise to speckles from where they are recruited to transcription sites. By using fluorescent protein fusion technology and different experimental approaches it has been shown that Arabidopsis SR proteins, in addition to diffuse nucleoplasmic staining, localise into an irregular nucleoplasmic network resembling speckles in mammalian cells. As Arabidopsis SR proteins fall into seven conserved sub-families we investigated co-localisation of members of the different sub-families in transiently transformed tobacco protoplast. Here we demonstrate the new finding that members of different SR protein sub-families localise into distinct populations of nuclear speckles with no, partial or complete co-localisation. This is particularly interesting as we also show that these proteins do interact in a yeast two-hybrid assay as well as in pull-down and in co-immunopreciptiation assays. Our data raise the interesting possibility that SR proteins are partitioned into distinct populations of nuclear speckles to allow a more specific recruitment to the transcription/pre-mRNA processing sites of particular genes depending on cell type and developmental stage.
!~RES~! SR proteins have often been used as markers for nuclear speckles, also termed SC35 domain, because they were observed in localisation studies of human SR protein SC35 CITATION. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 19 different SR proteins which can be grouped into seven sub-families (CITATIONA) some of which do not have orthologs in metazoans and are therefore considered as plant specific CITATION. By using different experimental approaches it has been shown that Arabidopsis SR proteins localise into speckled pattern in the nucleus CITATION. However, we noticed that transient expression of some SR proteins in tobacco leaf protoplasts showed characteristic patterns easily distinguishable from the others. For example, RSZp21, RSZp22, and RSZ33, Arabidopsis SR proteins containing zinc knuckles CITATION, always localised into few somewhat larger speckles in addition to being found in “normal speckles” CITATION (see also CITATIONB and C, arrowheads). To find out whether these structures are the same we performed co-localisation studies of FP-tagged SR proteins in transiently transformed tobacco leaf mesophyll protoplasts. These cells were chosen for this analysis because speckles in these cells appear to be more prominent compared to Arabidopsis cell suspension-derived protoplasts CITATION. Co-expression of RSZp21 and RSZp22 fused to GFP with RSZ33-RFP resulted in co-localisation of each protein pair (CITATIONB and C). Analysis of serial confocal sections revealed complete co-localisation in each of them (CITATIONC, shown is only the nucleus expressing RSZp22-GFP and RSZ33-RFP), indicating that co-localisations seen in the maximum projection images shown in CITATIONB are not due to the projection of confocal sections. Essentially the same results were obtained with cells co-expressing RSZp21-GFP and RSZ33-RFP (CITATIONB, upper panel). Co-expression of RSZp21-GFP and RSZp22-RFP also resulted in their complete co-localisation (CITATIONB, lower panel). Thus, co-localisation of these three proteins belonging to RSZ (RSZp21 and RSZp22) and RS2Z (SZ33) sub-families indicated that the larger nuclear structures observed with each of them separately are the same. To find out if the structures observed with the RSZ and RS2Z proteins are indeed different from speckles observed with other SR proteins we performed co-localisation studies with members of each Arabidopsis SR protein sub-family (CITATIONA). SRp34/SR1 is the Arabidopsis ortholog of human SF2/ASF CITATION, which is a prototype of SR protein family. Analysis of serial confocal sections from nuclei co-expressing SRp34-RFP with RSZp21-GFP (CITATIONA), SRp34-RFP with RSZp22-GFP (CITATIONB), and SRp34-RFP with RSZ33-GFP (CITATIONA) did not show significant co-localisation of SRp34/SR1 with any of the three proteins. Rather, SRp34/SR1 and RSZ and RS2Z proteins localised into distinct speckle populations usually positioned next to each other with very little overlap. This is evident from single confocal sections as well as from maximum intensity projection images where very little co-localisation of GFP and RFP signals is visible (CITATIONA and B for RSZp21 and RSZp22 and CITATIONA and CITATION for RSZ33). Quantification of fluorescence intensities along line segments across the nuclei clearly showed that RSZp21/22 and RSZ33 speckles do not coincide with those of SRp34 (CITATIONA and data not shown). Since RSZ33 and SRp34/SR1 are known to interact with each other in vitro and in the yeast two-hybrid assay CITATION this observation was somewhat surprising. However, co-expression of SRp34-RFP with the U1 snRNP-specific protein 70K fused to GFP, another protein pair known to interact in vitro and in vivo CITATION, resulted in their precise co-localisation as reported previously (CITATIONB). Consistently, quantification of fluorescence intensities in these cells clearly showed perfect overlap of RFP and GFP peaks (CITATIONB). In line with the above results cells co-expressing RSZ33-RFP and U1-70K-GFP showed only partial co-localisation (CITATIONC). Taken together, co-localisation studies with SRp34/SR1 described above demonstrate that RSZ and RS2Z proteins localise into speckles that are distinct from those observed with prototype SR protein SRp34/SR1. SCLs are Arabidopsis SR proteins identified by their ability to interact with RSZ33 in yeast two-hybrid assay and in vitro CITATION. Since SRp34/SR1, which is also interacting with the RSZ33, did not significantly co-localise with RSZ33 it was of interest to find out whether SCL proteins do co-localise with RSZ33. Co-expression of RSZ33-GFP with SCL28, SCL30, and SCL30a fused to RFP resulted in their partial co-localisation, which is clearly evident in maximum intensity projection images as well as in serial confocal sections (CITATIONA and C and data not shown). Closer inspection of merged images revealed that, in addition to speckles in which the two proteins do co-localise (CITATIONB, arrowheads), each of the SCL proteins and RSZ33 are also found in speckles where no co-localisation was observed (CITATIONB and D, arrows). Furthermore, in some nuclear areas differences in local protein concentration were observed (CITATIONB and D). As in the case of SRp34/SR1 and RSZ33, the majority of speckles without co-localisation are found close to each other. Quantification of fluorescence by using profiles of fluorescence intensities along lines through the nuclei confirmed the above observations (CITATIONA). Like RSZ33, RSZp21 was also found to interact with SCL proteins in yeast two-hybrid assay (Lopato, S., Forstner, C., and A. Barta, unpublished results; see also CITATION). Consistent with this, co-localisation experiments with cells co-expressing SCL proteins with RSZp21 and RSZp22 revealed results similar to that described for RSZ33 (data not shown) indicating that all RSZ and RS2Z proteins only partially co-localise with SCLs. Despite of being able to interact with SRp34/SR1 and SCL proteins CITATION (see below), we have demonstrated here that, in transiently transformed tobacco protoplasts, RSZ and RS2Z proteins do not or only partially co-localise with them (CITATION). Therefore, it was of interest to analyse co-localisation of SCL proteins with each other and with members of other Arabidopsis SR protein sub-families. Co-expression of protein pairs indicated in CITATIONA clearly revealed that SCL proteins do co-localise with each other. SC35, together with SF2/ASF, is a prototypic member of the SR protein family and one of the proteins extensively used as a marker for nuclear speckles in mammalian cells CITATION. AtSC35 is most similar to Arabidopsis SCL (SC35-like) proteins. Therefore, we were interested to analyse its co-localisation with SCLs and with members of other Arabidopsis SR protein sub-families. Co-expression of atSC35 with SCL proteins resulted in nearly complete co-localisation (CITATIONB). However, deeper analysis of marked nuclear areas of cells expressing atSC35-GFP and SCL30a-RFP revealed differences in local concentrations of the two proteins (CITATIONB, arrows in enlarged images at the bottom). Arrowheads in atSC35/SCL28 and atSC35/SCL30 images in CITATIONB point to speckles in which mainly one of the proteins is found. Together, data presented in CITATION demonstrate that SCL proteins do co-localise with RSZ33 and atSC35, although not completely which is particularly evident for RSZ33 (CITATION). Therefore, co-localisation of atSC35 with RSZ33 was analysed. As evident from CITATION the two proteins showed precise co-localisation in maximum intensity projections as well as in single confocal images (CITATION). In contrast, cells co-expressing atSC35 and SRp34/SR1 showed only partial co-localisation which is also evident from quantification of fluorescence intensities along the three lines (CITATIONA). Thus, in this cell type the two prototypic members of the SR protein family do not localise to the same nuclear domains. This is also consistent with the observed lack of co-localisation between SRp34/SR1 and RSZ33 described before. In addition, co-expression of RSp31-GFP with SCL30a-RFP and with SRp30-RFP (another ortholog of the human SF2/ASF) also resulted in complete co-localisation of these fusion proteins (CITATIONB). These data, together with the above described co-localisation patterns of RSZ and RS2Z proteins with each other, with SRp34/SR1, with SCLs and with U1-70K, demonstrate that in this particular cell type Arabidopsis zinc knuckle-containing SR proteins localise into nuclear patterns which are distinct from other SR proteins and splicing factors. Extensive yeast two-hybrid screens as well as direct two-hybrid assays revealed a complex network of interactions between Arabidopsis SR proteins. For example, RSZ33 was found to interact with SRp30 and SRp34/SR1, two Arabidopsis orthologs of the human SF2/ASF, with all SCL proteins, and with RSZp21 CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid screens and direct two-hybrid assays performed with SCL proteins revealed that they interact with atSC35, SRp30, SRp34/SR1, RSZp21, as well as with each other and with themselves (except for SCL33) [CITATION, Lopato, S., Forstner, C., and A. Barta, unpublished results]. atSC35 was also found to interact with all four SCL proteins and with itself in yeast two-hybrid assay (Lopato, S., Forstner, C., and A. Barta, unpublished results). Some of these interaction data seem to be in contrast to above described co-localisation data. Therefore, interactions between these proteins were analysed by in vitro binding assays. Pull-down assays were performed with GST fusion proteins expressed in E. coli and HA-tagged proteins expressed in yeast cells. Immunoprecipitations were performed with HA- and GFP-tagged proteins co-expressed in tobacco protoplasts. Because all SR proteins are RNA binding proteins, protein extracts used for pull-downs and immunoprecipitations were treated with RNase A to avoid indirect, RNA-mediated interactions. By using in vitro pull-down assay we could recapitulate interaction between RSZp21 and SRp34/SR1 (CITATION A). Similarly, pull-down assays confirmed interactions of SCL28, SCL30 and SCL30a with RSZp21, SRp30, SRp34/SR1, SCL28, SCL30, and SCL30a (CITATIONB). Interactions between SCL33 with other SCL proteins were assayed by immunoprecipitation. To do so, tobacco protoplasts were co-transformed with plasmids expressing SCL33-GFP and all four SCL proteins fused to HA tag. As shown in CITATIONC all but SCL30a were co-precipitated with SCL33-GFP, thereby confirming yeast two-hybrid interactions. By using co-immunoprecipitation assay with cell extracts prepared form protoplasts co-expressing atSC35-GFP and HA tagged SCL proteins we were able to demonstrate interactions of atSC35 with SCL30, SCL30a, and SCL33, but not with itself (CITATIOND).
!~MM~! Plasmids for the expression of HA-tagged RSZp21, SRp30, SRp34/SR1, and SCL28 in yeast cells have been described CITATION. Plasmids for the expression of GFP and RFP tagged SR proteins have been described CITATION. Plasmids for the expression of GST fusions of SCL28, SCL30, SCL30a, RSZp21, and RSZ33 have been described CITATION. Plasmids for the expression of HA-tagged SCL proteins and SC35 in plant protoplasts were created by cloning corresponding PCR products CITATION into pDEDH-HA. Nicotiana tabacum SR1 leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transformed with 20 μg of plasmid DNA per one million of protoplasts by the polyethylene glycol method as described in Koop et al. CITATION. Arabidopsis cell suspension (derived from root cells) protoplasts were prepared and transformed as described in Lorkovic et al. CITATION. Protoplasts were collected 24 hours after transformation and used for confocal laser scanning microscopy or for preparation of protein extracts. Images were obtained with a TCS-SP confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg). GFP and RFP/mRFP were excited with an ArKr laser at 476 and 568 nm, respectively. GFP emission was recorded at 510 to 545 nm, and RFP/mRFP emission was recorded at 630 to 680 nm. Serial optical sections were collected with the 0.5 μm Z setting. The diameter of the pinhole was set up equal to the Airy unit. Image acquisition was set up to avoid crosstalk of the two fluorescence excitations and emissions. Images were exported to Adobe Photoshop software and prepared for presentation. ImageJ software was used for fluorescence quantification. For each protein pair at least 30 randomly chosen cells were scaned and analysed. GST fusions of SCL, RSZp21, and RSZ33 proteins were overexpressed in E. coli BL21 CodonPlus-RIL (Stratagene). Purification of fusion proteins, extraction of proteins from yeast cells expressing HA-tagged Arabidopsis SR proteins and pull-down assays have been done as described CITATION. S. cerevisae cells expressing Arabidopsis HA-tagged SR proteins were resuspended in three cell volumes of extraction buffer [50 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 300 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 1% Triton X-100, EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Diagnostics)], 3 cell volumes of glass beads were added to the pellet, and lysis was performed by vortexing 4 times for 30 seconds. The supernatants were transferred to new tubes and the cells were extracted once more with 4 volumes of extraction buffer. The supernatants were mixed together and centrifuged for 20 min at 4°C 15,000× g. Protein extracts were mixed with glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads (AmershamPharmacia Biotech) coated with recombinant proteins or with beads alone, and incubated on a rotary shaker for 2 hours at 4 °C. The beads were washed 3 times with 1 ml of ice-cold extraction buffer, containing 150 mM NaCl. Bound proteins were denatured in 50 μl of Laemmli buffer, and 25 μl were separated on a 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and analyzed by Western blotting. These have been done according to previously described procedure CITATION. Plant protoplasts co-transformed with plasmids expressing HA- and GFP-tagged SR proteins were collected 24 hours latter (15 min, 70×g), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and resuspended in 300 μl (per 2 millions protoplasts) of protoplasts extraction buffer (PEB400; 50 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.9, 400 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100), supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Diagnostics) and RNase A (final concentration of 0.5 μg/μl). Suspension was sonicated three times for 6 seconds and incubated on ice for 20 min with occasional mixing. After centrifugation (15 min, 14,000 rpm, 4 °C) concentration of KCl in extracts was adjusted to 200 mM (PEB200) with KCl-free PEB. Protein extracts were incubated for one hour with or without anti-GFP antibody (6 μg; Roche Diagnostics) on ice, and then Protein-A Sepharose (AmershamPharmacia Biotech) beads were added and incubated for additional three hours on the rotary shaker at 4 °C. Beads were washed three times with PEB200, resuspended in 50 μl of SDS-PAGE loading buffer, and 25 μl were separated on a 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and analyzed by Western blotting. Proteins were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) on 12% gels and were electroblotted on a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Millipore Corporation, Billerica, USA). Blots were developed by using enhanced chemiluminescence system (Amersham Biosciences, UK). Antibodies were diluted as follows: mouse monoclonal anti-GFP 7.1 and 13.1 (Roche Diagnostics) 1:1,000, rat monoclonal anti-HA 3F10 (Roche Diagnostics) 1:1,000, goat anti-rat IgG horseradish peroxidase-conjugated (Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, St. Louis, MO, USA) 1:10,000 and goat anti-mouse IgG horseradish peroxidase-conjugated (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, CA, USA) 1:10,000.
