!~ABS~! Computational prediction and in vivo protein coupling experiments identify candidate plant G-protein coupled receptors in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar.
!~RES~! Due to the low sequence similarity of GPCRs, alternative methods beyond BLAST are required to identify novel GPCRs. Because the QFC algorithm was reported to have an approximately 98% success rate in classifying GPCRs from non-GPCRs [CITATION], and GPCRs are classically described by their 7TM topology, our criterion to identify a protein sequence as a candidate GPCR comprises the requirements of direct prediction as a GPCR by the QFC algorithm and the presence of exactly seven TM domains as predicted by at least two of the three TM prediction programs used (TMHMM2, HMMMTOP2, and Phobius) after correction for signal peptide misprediction (Figure CITATION). Flowchart detailing our A. thaliana candidate GPCR identification and in vivo analysis scheme. Numbers in parentheses include redundant protein sequences. A complete list of splice variants and redundant proteins for the Arabidopsis proteome is supplied in Additional data file 12. We identified 2,469 Arabidopsis proteins that satisfied the QFC requirement (Figure CITATION). To predict proteins containing seven TM domains, we performed whole proteome analyses with the dedicated TM prediction programs TMHMM2 and HMMTOP2, and the signal peptide/TM domain co-prediction program Phobius. The mature proteins of sequences with signal peptides detected by Phobius were subsequently re-analyzed by TMHMM2 and HMMTOP2 (Figure CITATION). A total of 401 non-redundant protein sequences were predicted to have seven TM domains by at least one of the three programs and 83 were predicted to have seven TM domains by all three. We identified 178 proteins that satisfied our '2/3 predictions' rule for the presence of exactly seven TM domains (Figure CITATION). The intersecting set of these 178 proteins with the 2,469 proteins identified by QFC analysis contains 127 candidate GPCRs, which we call the 'intermediate pool'; of these, 71 are predicted to have exactly seven TM domains by all three TM domain predictors (Figure CITATION; Additional data file 1). Proportional Venn diagrams detailing the number of predicted and co-predicted 7TM protein sequences in the non-redundant (a) Arabidopsis, (b) Oryza, and (c) Populus proteomes. Signal peptides were removed in silico prior to topology analyses. From this intermediate pool of 127 proteins, we designated a sequence as a high ranking candidate GPCR if it also satisfied the criterion of prediction as a GPCR by GPCRHMM using the relaxed global threshold of -10. Because GPCRHMM appears to have high specificity for selecting GPCRs, and it has been reported that reducing the GPCRHMM global cutoff threshold to as low as -53 still allows GPCRHMM to function with a false positive rate of only approximately 1% when analyzing data sets composed of proteins containing 6-8TMs [CITATION], we chose to use the relaxed global threshold of -10 in order to select more divergent GPCR candidates while still minimizing the number of false positives. Whole Arabidopsis proteome analysis by GPCRHMM using this threshold identified a non-redundant set of 99 sequences (Figure CITATION). Of these 99 sequences, 16 also satisfied the prediction criteria from our QFC and 7TM analyses; thus, we designated these 16 as 'high ranking' candidate GPCRs (Figure CITATION; Table CITATION), while the remaining 111 proteins from the intermediate pool were designated as second tier GPCR candidates. Further filtering of the 16 sequences through the use of a stricter global threshold in combination with a local GPCRHMM filter, namely a GPCRHMM global filter threshold level of 0 and a positive GPCRHMM local score, identified 11 of the 16 candidates as belonging to an upper bin within the set of high ranking candidate GPCRs (Table CITATION). Characterization of our high ranking Arabidopsis candidate G-protein coupled receptors Protein sequences predicted to be GPCRs by QFC and GPCRHMM are indicated by an asterisk and the GPCRHMM global score is provided for sequences we identify as GPCRs using a relaxed cutoff threshold score of -10. The predicted number of transmembrane domains and the intracellular (in) or extracellular (out) localization of the amino terminus are shown. Pcut-T and Pcut-H describe topology predictions of the mature proteins by TMHMM and HMMTOP, respectively, after in silico cleavage at the signal peptide cleavage site predicted by Phobius. Candidates shown to interact with GPA1 in vivo using the split-ubiquitin system are identified in bold while the sole negative result from that assay is shown in italics. ‡GCR1 interaction with GPA1 in the split-ubiquitin system was previously described by Pandey and Assmann [CITATION]. †RGS1 interaction with GPA1 in the split-ubiquitin system was previously described by Chen et al. [CITATION]; the RGS1 sequence was truncated at the upstream border of the RGS box prior to analysis by GPCRHMM. Twelve of the sixteen high ranking candidate GPCR sequences were predicted to have seven TM domains by all three methods (Table CITATION), with ten of the consensus 7TM proteins found within the eleven member upper bin. Two of the upper bin consensus 7TM predictions (Cand6, At5g02630.1; Cand7, At5g18520.1) are only apparent after removal of the signal peptide (Table CITATION). Although the identification of candidate GPCRs by bioinformatic means is informative, the validity of the predictions can only be determined empirically. One obvious criterion that GPCR proteins should logically satisfy is that they should physically interact with a G-protein α subunit. As wet-bench evaluation of such protein-protein interactions is not a trivial task, we chose half of our Arabidopsis high ranking candidate GPCRs for in vivo analysis, and did so using additional information beyond our initial criteria of direct GPCR prediction and TM domain analysis. Candidates Cand2 and Cand8 were chosen based on their limited similarity to GPR175, a mammalian GPCR. Heptahelical protein 2 (HHP2) was selected for analysis since the HHP family shows similarity to the atypical GPCRs of the human adiponectin receptor and membrane progestin receptor family [CITATION]. The Tobamovirus replication protein TOM1 sequence was selected for analysis since both TOM1 and TOM3 were shown to be essential for tobamovirus pathogenicity in Arabidopsis [CITATION] and mammalian GPCRs are essential for HIV pathogenesis [CITATION]. Two of the splice variant products encoded by the At3g59090 locus (Cand3 and Cand5) were chosen based on the fact that they differ primarily in their amino-terminal regions and both are annotated as being similar to TOM1. Our BLAST analyses show that Cand3 and Cand5 have only limited similarity to TOM1 or TOM3, with BLAST e-values ranging between e-12 and e-07 (data not shown). A high proportion of GPCRs, especially class A GPCRs, are known to be intronless [CITATION], and this information was used to select Cand1 and Cand7 instead of other candidates that, like Cand1 and Cand7, are also annotated only as expressed proteins. Additional support for selecting Cand7 came from domain prediction analyses using the conserved domain database at NCBI, which indicated that Cand7 has a Lung 7TM receptor domain with a query e-value of 3.1e-35. After choosing these candidates, we applied the split-ubiquitin system to test their ability to interact with GPA1, the sole canonical G-protein α subunit of Arabidopsis. The split-ubiquitin system variant of the yeast two hybrid assay is based on the ability of the amino-terminal (Nubwt) and carboxy-terminal (Cub) domains of ubiquitin to spontaneously reassemble and become a functionally recognized target for ubiquitin specific proteases, which cleave an artificial transcription factor, PLV, that is fused downstream of Cub (Figure CITATION). PLV translocation to the nucleus and subsequent induction of reporter gene expression leads to functional complementation of auxotrophic yeast and positive interactions are easily visualized through yeast growth. Protein-protein interaction test assays are possible through the use of NubG, a mutant version of Nubwt that has reduced affinity for Cub; thus, a functional ubiquitin is reassembled only if the two test proteins (in our case, a candidate GPCR and GPA1) interact. Increased assay stringency is achieved by modulating test protein expression levels through the application of methionine, which downregulates the methionine repressible Met25 promoter that drives Cub fusion protein expression. In our split-ubiquitin system assays we separately fused the Nubwt and NubG domains to both the amino terminus and carboxyl terminus of the candidate GPCR and tested the ability of these fusion proteins to interact with the GPA1-Cub-PLV fusion protein (Figure CITATION, sectors 1-4). Fusion with the Nubwt is a positive control that should always yield protein-protein interaction. Because the fusion of additional protein sequence can cause physiochemical changes in protein structure and loss of function, we also performed the reciprocal assay in which the Nub domains were fused to GPA1, and the candidate GPCR was fused to Cub-PLV (Figure CITATION, sectors 5-8). The two reciprocal assays were performed on the same methionine supplemented media plate (Figure CITATION). Since a lack of yeast growth indicates a lack of protein-protein interaction, all interaction assay cultures were simultaneously verified as capable of growing on minimal media alone (data not shown). All of the positive interactions, as determined by yeast growth due to complementation of the his3 mutation, were also accompanied by the expected color change of the diploid yeast due to complementation of the ade2 mutation (data not shown). Experimental organization and two representative results for GPA1-candidate GPCR interaction assessed by the split-ubiquitin system. (a) Schematic showing a simplified outline of the split-ubiquitin system assay: protein A is fused to the amino-terminal half of ubiquitin as an amino- or carboxy-terminal fusion (only the amino-terminal fusion orientation is shown here); protein B is fused to the carboxy-terminal half of ubiquitin, which in turn has a fused artificial transcription factor (PLV). Interaction of protein A with protein B brings the two halves of ubiquitin into close proximity and a functional ubiquitin molecule is restored. Ubiquitin specific proteases cleave off PLV, which translocates to the nucleus and activates transcription of target genes allowing for yeast growth. (b) Cartoon detailing the control (Nubwt) and test (NubG) fusion protein construct orientations for sectors 1-4 in (c). (c) Schematic depicting the organization of the interaction assay plates in (d,e). The X represents the candidate GPCR open reading frame (ORF). Sectors 5-8 show the reciprocal assay. (d,e) Representative results for the ability of candidate GPCRs to interact with GPA1, the Gα subunit, on 1 mM methionine repression media. Diploid yeast containing GPA1 fusion constructs and either candidate Cand5 (d) or TOM1 (e) fusion constructs both grow on minimal media (not shown), but Cand5 specifically interacts with GPA1 and allows growth on the repression media (d, boxed sector) while TOM1 does not (e, boxed sector). Figure CITATION illustrates one positive result, while Figure CITATION illustrates the sole negative result from our tests of candidate GPCRs. As shown in sector 2 of Figure CITATION, the candidate GPCR Cand5 interacts with GPA1 as shown by the presence of yeast growth; however, this interaction does not occur when the Cand5 protein has a carboxy-terminal NubG or Cub fusion protein (Figure CITATION, sectors 4, 6 and 8), consistent with the known importance of GPCR carboxyl termini in binding G-proteins as well as other GPCR interacting proteins [CITATION]. As shown in Figure CITATION, sectors 2, 4, 6 and 8 all lack yeast growth, demonstrating that this candidate GPCR, TOM1, does not interact with GPA1 regardless of the orientation of the fusion proteins. Our complete results, summarized in Table CITATION, demonstrate that seven of the eight candidate GPCRs we tested indeed interact with GPA1. All of the positive control interactions using Nubwt-candidate fusion proteins showed heavy yeast growth, as expected. Fusion proteins made using Cand1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8 and HHP2 in the NubG-candidate orientation interacted with the GPA1-Cub-PLV fusion protein as indicated by yeast growth (Table CITATION). The NubG TOM1 fusion protein did not interact with GPA1-Cub-PLV in our highly stringent conditions with 1 mM methionine (Figure CITATION), nor did it show any interaction when the methionine concentration was reduced five-fold to 200 μM (data not shown). None of the test assays involving candidate-NubG constructs showed any interaction with GPA1, while all of the control assays showed heavy yeast growth except the assay involving HHP2, which did not show any growth (Table CITATION). From these data we can conclude that a free carboxyl terminus is required for Cand1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 8 to interact with GPA1. Results for the split-ubiquitin system protein-protein interaction assays between candidate GPCR Nub fusion proteins and the GPA1-Cub-PLV fusion protein All results were recorded after 3-5 of days of yeast growth on minimal media containing 1 mM methionine to identify proteins that interact specifically with GPA1 as indicated by the extent of yeast growth. (+) indicates moderate growth while (++) indicate heavy yeast growth. Empty vector control plates did not show growth (data not shown). Nubwt, wild type amino-terminal half of ubiquitin. NubG, reduced affinity mutant of Nubwt. All of the reciprocal interaction assays using the GPA1 Nub fusion proteins and the candidate-Cub-PLV fusion protein were negative, while all of the control assays involving either the Nubwt-GPA1 or the GPA1-Nubwt fusion proteins were positive except Cand8 (Table CITATION). Taken together, the results from the reciprocal assays provide further evidence that a free carboxyl terminus is required for candidate GPCR interaction with GPA1. Because the interaction of GPA1-Nubwt and Cand8-Cub-PLV did not show any yeast growth, the negative results for interaction between GPA1-NubG and Cand8-Cub-PLV are inconclusive (Table CITATION). Results for the split-ubiquitin system protein-protein interaction assays between GPA1 Nub fusion proteins and the candidate GPCR-Cub-PLV fusion proteins Results were recorded after 3-5 days of yeast growth on minimal media containing 1 mM methionine to identify proteins that interact specifically with GPA1 as indicated by the extent of yeast growth. (+) indicates moderate growth while (++) indicate heavy yeast growth. Empty vector control plates did not show growth (data not shown). X-Cub-PLV, candidate GPCR-Cub-PLV fusions. Nubwt, wild type amino-terminal half of ubiquitin. NubG, reduced affinity mutant of Nubwt. Although GPCRs are highly divergent and generally have low sequence similarity, extensive study has led to the ability to categorize metazoan GPCRs into receptor families and subfamilies, and even subfamily categories [CITATION]. Importantly, GPCR classification systems are based on the pharmacological properties of GPCR function [CITATION]; therefore, classification of candidate GPCRs may give clues regarding their functional relatedness. The comprehensive GPCR classification software GPCRsIdentifier [CITATION] was utilized to classify our candidate GPCRs in order to compare classifications of plant candidate GPCRs with those from metazoan systems. As the GPCRsIdentifier method is independent of primary sequence and also does not attempt to verify a query sequence as having the typical 7TM topology of GPCRs prior to classification, we applied GPCRsIdentifier to proteins that we had previously predicted to contain 7TM domains (Figure CITATION). GPCRsIdentifier was able to classify the great majority of these proteins: 94.74% of the 7TM proteins identified by TMHMM2, 90.56% of the 7TM proteins identified by HMMTOP2, and 91.52% of the 7TM sequences identified by Phobius were classifiable by GPCRsIdentifier. We next specifically applied GPCRsIdentifier to classify our high ranking candidate GPCRs in the Arabidopsis proteome. All 16 of these candidates were classified as being class A GPCRs, and 12 of these were identified as belonging to the Olfactory subfamily (Table CITATION). GCR1 was the only sequence to be classified as belonging to the Olfactory I subfamily type category, and nine of the Olfactory classified sequences were diversely classified into the Olfactory II subfamily type category numbers 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, and 13. Two of the sequences classified into the Olfactory II subfamily were classified into the FOR-like category. The remaining four Arabidopsis high ranking candidate GPCRs were only classified to the subfamily level: three sequences were identified as belonging to the Peptide subfamily of class A, while one sequence was classified as belonging to the Viral subfamily of class A. GPCRsIdentifier classification of the high ranking candidate GPCRs in the Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs shown to interact with GPA1 in vivo in the split-ubiquitin fusion assays are identified in bold while the sole negative result is indicated with an asterisk. Oryza and Populus candidate GPCRs that are orthologous to one of the emboldened Arabidopsis candidates are identified in italic type (see Table 5 for orthology details). †GCR1 and RGS1 interaction with GPA1 in the split-ubiquitin system was previously described by Pandey and Assmann [CITATION] and Chen et al. [CITATION], respectively. To identify candidate GPCRs in Oryza the same bioinformatics pipeline was applied as was used for Arabidopsis. Application of the QFC algorithm to the Oryza non-redundant proteome identified 3,344 proteins as GPCRs. Topology predictions using TMHMM2, HMMTOP2, and Phobius identified 187 proteins that were predicted to have 7 TMs by at least two of these programs, after considering the presence of signal peptides (Figure CITATION). As summarized in Figure CITATION, we identified an intermediate pool of 151 non-redundant Oryza candidate GPCRs that satisfied the criterion of direct prediction as a GPCR by the QFC algorithm and a majority 7TM topology prediction. Sixty-seven proteins in this intermediate pool were predicted to have exactly seven TM domains by consensus prediction (Additional data file 2). Application of GPCRHMM with a relaxed global threshold to the intermediate pool resulted in identification of 138 second tier candidate GPCRs (Additional data file 2) and 13 high ranking candidate GPCRs (Table CITATION). Seven of these sequences were further segregated into an upper bin of high ranking candidates using the additional filtering steps of requiring a GPCRHMM global score greater than 0 and a positive GPCRHMM local score (Table CITATION). Characterization of our high ranking Oryza candidate G-protein coupled receptors High ranking Oryza candidate GPCRs that are orthologous to our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs demonstrated to interact with the Arabidopsis Gα subunit are shown in bold and BLAST e-values are provided to support their identification (see Table 1 for additional details). Flowchart detailing our O. sativa candidate GPCR identification scheme. Numbers in parentheses include redundant protein sequences. A complete list of splice variants and redundant proteins for the Oryza proteome is supplied in Additional data file 13. Four of the thirteen high ranking candidates were predicted to have seven TM domains by all three TM predictors, although 7TM consensus predictions became evident for three of the sequences (Os01g61970.1, Os03g36790.1, and Os02g40550.1) only after considering the confounding effect of signal peptides on amino-terminal TM domain prediction (Table CITATION). GPCRsIdentifier classified all but one of the high ranking candidate GPCRs in the Oryza proteome into the class A family of GPCRs (Table CITATION). Interestingly, the two Oryza putative paralogs most closely related to Cand1 were classified differently; Os04g36630.1 was classified as belonging to the class A family while Os01g66190.1 was classified as belonging to the class C family. This may indicate that these Oryza candidate GPCRs have functionally diverged and have differential ligand specificities since GPCR classification systems are based on pharmacological function. Classification of the Oryza class A candidate GPCRs identified a greater diversity of subfamily representation than that seen in the Arabidopsis analysis (Table CITATION). Only 5 of the 13 candidates were classified into the Olfactory subfamily and of these, two were identified as Olfactory I family sequences. The other three were classified into the Olfactory II subfamily type category numbers 4, 5, and 10. Another 5 of the 13 candidates were classified into the Rhodopsin subfamily, and the remaining 2 sequences were divided between the Peptide and Lysosphingolipid subfamilies. Direct detection of potential candidate GPCRs by the QFC algorithm identified 2,678 sequences within the non-redundant Populus proteome (Figure CITATION) and our protein topology analysis identified a total of 249 protein sequences predicted to be heptahelical by two out of the three prediction programs (Figure CITATION). The intermediate pool of Populus candidate GPCRs, defined as those proteins that satisfied both the QFC and majority 7TM prediction requirements, contains 202 proteins of which 96 are 7TM by prediction consensus (Additional data file 3). Flowchart detailing our P. trichocarpa candidate GPCR identification scheme. Numbers in parentheses include redundant protein sequences. A complete list of splice variants and redundant proteins for the Populus proteome is supplied in Additional data file 14. Using the same GPCRHMM criteria as previously employed, we identified 20 high ranking candidate GPCRs in the non-redundant Populus proteome (Table CITATION), 12 of which compose an upper bin of candidates as they were co-predicted by the QFC and GPCRHMM using our most stringent criteria. Of these 20 high ranking candidate GPCRs, 16 are predicted to have 7 TM domains by agreement of TMHMM2, HMMTOP2, and Phobius. Nine of the consensus 7TM prediction sequences are found within the twelve sequence upper bin (Table CITATION). Characterization of our high ranking Populus candidate G-protein coupled receptors Protein sequences orthologous to our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs demonstrated to interact with the Arabidopsis Gα subunit are shown in bold and BLAST e-values are provided to support their identification (see Table 1 for additional details). Out of the 20 Populus high ranking candidate GPCRs, 18 protein sequences were classified as class A GPCRs by GPCRsIdentifier (Table CITATION). Of these, eleven were classified into the Olfactory family with three identified as belonging to the Olfactory I subfamily and eight identified as belonging in one of the Olfactory II subfamily type category numbers 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10. The remaining seven class A sequences were identified as belonging to the Peptide (four), Nucleotide (two), and Thyrotropin (one) subfamilies. One sequence, Pop 279432, which was not classified as a class A GPCR, was classified into class C, while the remaining non-class A sequence, Pop796139, was classified by GPCRsIdentifier as a globular protein. Since individual GPCRs and GPCR families are known to be evolutionarily conserved across species [CITATION], we sought to identify sequences in the Oryza and Populus proteomes that are homologous to our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs that we empirically demonstrated to interact with GPA1 (Tables CITATION and CITATION). Specifically, we hypothesized that our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs shown to interact with GPA1 should have likely orthologs in the Oryza and Populus proteomes and that these likely orthologs should also have been predicted as candidate GPCRs using our most stringent identification scheme. To evaluate the hypothesis that our Arabidopsis high ranking candidate GPCRs shown to physically interact with GPA1 exhibit sequence conservation in higher plants, we performed phylogenetic analyses using potential orthologs identified by BLAST analyses of the Arabidopsis, Oryza and Populus proteomes (Figure CITATION). This molecular evolutionary analysis supported both parts of our hypothesis. First, as described in more detail below, all seven of our interacting GPCRs as well as GCR1, previously shown to interact with GPA1 [CITATION], indeed have close homologs (E-values < e-60) in Oryza and Populus, while RGS1 [CITATION] has a close homolog only in Populus (Tables CITATION and CITATION, Figure CITATION). Second, nearly all of the orthologous sequences uncovered by phylogenetic analyses were independently predicted as GPCRs using our GPCR prediction pipeline (Figure CITATION), despite differences in primary sequence, physiochemical characteristics, and topological boundaries. Molecular evolutionary analyses of candidate GPCRs shown to physically interact with GPA1. The Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes were subjected to BLAST analyses (e-20 cutoff) using our positive interacting candidate GPCR protein sequences (filled triangles). Multiple sequence alignments were created in ClustalX and evolutionary relationships were estimated using the neighbor joining method with 1,000 bootstrap replicates. Sequences identified by our bioinformatic pipeline as candidate GPCRs are indicated with empty triangles, with upward pointing triangles indicating those found within our high ranking candidate sets and downward pointing triangles indicating those present in the second tier. Scale bars indicate evolutionary distance as measured by residue substitutions per site. (a) RGS1; (b) GCR1; (c) Cand2 and Cand8; (d) Cand1; (e) Cand3, 4, and 5; (f) Cand6 and Cand7; and (g) HHP2. Using GCR1 as the input sequence, we identified single homologous proteins in both the Oryza and Populus proteomes (Os06g09930.1, Pop820940), and both these proteins were among those independently predicted by our bioinformatic pipeline as high-ranking candidates in these proteomes. Queries using the RGS1 sequence did not identify a homolog in the proteome of the monocot, Oryza, but did identify a sole homologous protein in the proteome of the dicot, Populus (Pop720911). This sole Populus RGS1 homolog was identified as second tier candidate GPCR by our bioinformatic analysis. Further queries of publicly available databases show that GCR1 is highly conserved across the plant kingdom, including dicots and monocots, while RGS1 sequences are highly conserved within the dicotyledonous species (data not shown). BLAST analyses showed that Cand1 has no homologs within the Arabidopsis proteome, but it does have two highly similar proteins in the Oryza proteome and three homologs in the Populus proteome (Figure CITATION), all of which we had previously identified as high ranking candidate GPCRs. Although highly similar sequences (BLAST < e-95) were identified in other plant species, the identification of non-plant possible homologs of Cand1 was limited to a single Dictyostelium protein [GenBank:XP_637589] with an expected value of 5e-07 (data not shown). Candidate GPCRs Cand2 and Cand8, which share 83% identity and compose a two gene family in Arabidopsis, identified a similarly closely related protein pair in Populus but only identified a single homolog in the Oryza proteome; we had previously identified all three of these proteins as belonging to the high ranking candidate GPCR gene sets of these proteomes. The Cand2/8 family is not only widely conserved across monocot and dicot plant lineages, but is also conserved across higher metazoa as BLAST searches identify homologs in mouse (GPR175) and honeybee (Figure CITATION). Multiple sequence alignment of the Cand2 (At3g05010.1) and Cand8 (At5g27210.1) family. The family is widely conserved beyond the Oryza and Populus proteomes; homologous sequences can be found in other dicotyledonous plants (grape [GenBank:CAN61534.1]), monocotyledonous plants (sorghum [GenBank:AAM47585.1]), insects (honeybee [GenBank:XP_625021.2]), and mammals (mouse GPR175 protein [GenBank:AAH10244.1]). The long carboxy-terminal region of the honeybee and mouse protein sequences are truncated due to the lack of any meaningful alignment beyond that shown. Schematic above the alignment blocks indicates the 7TM topology of Cand2, as predicted by TMHMM. Blue lines, extracellular regions; blue blocks, TM domains; red lines, intracellular regions. Queries with all three splice variants of At3g59090 (Cand3, 4, and 5) detected a single sequence in the Oryza proteome (Os01g54784.1) and two sequences (Pop205267, Pop551235) in the Populus proteome (Figure CITATION). BLAST analyses using these At3g59090 splice variants did not detect any non-plant sequences, suggesting that this family, like the TOM1/3 family with which it is weakly associated, is plant-specific. The HHP family has five members in Arabidopsis and has previously been reported to be similar to human adiponectin and progestin receptors [CITATION]. BLAST searches of the Oryza and Populus proteomes using HHP2 identify five homologs in the Oryza proteome and six homologs in the Populus proteome (Figure CITATION), and all but 2 of these 11 sequences were found by our independent GPCR candidate search. BLAST searches using Cand6 and Cand7, which compose half of a four gene family in Arabidopsis, identified six homologous protein sequences in the Oryza proteome and five in Populus. A broader BLAST analysis, using all of these sequences as queries, showed that the Cand6/7 'super-family' contains 29 non-redundant members within the Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes. The majority of these sequences (20/29) are independently identified by our GPCR prediction pipeline as candidate GPCRs, with 13 of the 20 sequences identified as high ranking candidate GPCRs. Molecular evolutionary analyses using all 29 members show that the superfamily strongly and equally bifurcates into two clades (Additional data file 4), with one clade containing Cand6, Cand7, and all of their close homologs identified in the initial BLAST analyses (Figure CITATION). Subsequent BLAST searches using Cand7 as the query show that this large plant family of sequences is similar to the human GPR107 family of GPCRs and conserved across plants, insects, fish, and mammals (Additional data file 5 and data not shown). To further characterize the phylogenetic relationships identified by our molecular evolutionary analyses, we queried the Pfam database [CITATION] using all of our candidate GPCRs (Additional data file 6). Domain search analyses using the Pfam database confirm the previous descriptions of GCR1 having a Dicty_CAR domain, and we find that this attribute is also found in the Oryza and Populus homologs of GCR1 (Figure CITATION; Additional data file 6). Our analyses show that the plant Cand6/7 superfamily members all contain the Lung_7TMR domain (Figure CITATION; Additional data file 6), which is common to the mammalian GPR107/108 family. Plant sequences in the TOM1/3 family have a domain of unknown function, DUF1084, while Cand9 and Cand10 both have a DUF300 domain. The haemolysin-III domain of the HHP2 family of Arabidopsis sequences was previously noted [CITATION] and we show that this domain is conserved across the greater HHP family in Oryza and Populus (Figure CITATION; Additional data file 6). Interestingly, several of our candidate GPCRs and candidate GPCR families (Cand1-5 and Cand8) do not have any of the domains included in the PfamA database. This provides additional support that these are novel, uncharacterized proteins, but does not provide negative support for their identification as a candidate GPCR: analysis of all of the human sequences available in the GPCRDB using the Pfam database shows that 21.4% do not have any associated PfamA domains, and 6.2% of the sequences have domains that are other than those annotated as GPCR specific (data not shown). Similar to the number observed for the human GPCRDB sequences, 20.4% of our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs did not have matches in the PfamA database. Although PfamB family domains are not annotated and are of lower quality, all of our candidate GPCRs without PfamA domains were assessed for the possibility of functionally conserved domains in order to computationally characterize these proteins to the fullest extent. After PfamB analyses, we find that nearly all of these candidate GPCRs have some type of uncharacterized domain (Additional data file 7). Interestingly, in some cases the associated domain is based exclusively on data from members of the candidate GPCR family or superfamily. For instance, members of the Cand2/8 family have Pfam-B_26759 and Pfam-B_14631 domains, but these domains are based on the ProDom alignment of Cand2/8, a sorghum homologue, and the human GPR175 sequence (see also Figure CITATION). This domain analysis suggests that these two unannotated PfamB domains may be uncharacterized GPCR domains, but this remains to be proven. Taken together, our results show that the high ranking Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs that we have empirically shown to interact with GPA1 are widely conserved in plant species, and that homologous sequences in other plant proteomes are indeed independently predicted as high ranking GPCRs by our approach, further supporting the validity of this method.
!~MM~! All A. thaliana sequences were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) ftp Gene download site [CITATION]. All our bioinformatic analyses performed on Arabidopsis sequences were performed using protein sequence from the updated TAIR ATH1 version 7.0 annotation of the genome, except for those performed using PRED-GPCR, which was performed on version 6.0. Although the TAIR ATH1 annotation of the Arabidopsis genome advanced from version 7 to version 8 during manuscript review, none of the sequences of our Arabidopsis candidate GPCRs changed and our predictions are still valid. All O. sativa sequences were obtained from The Institute for Genomic Resource (TIGR) and downloaded from the pseudomolecules ftp site [CITATION]. All Oryza bioinformatic analyses were performed on the TIGR release 5 of the Osa1 Rice Pseudomolecules and Genome Annotation database. All P. trichocarpa sequences were obtained from the DOE Joint Genome Initiative (JGI) and downloaded from the ftp data download site [CITATION]. All Populus bioinformatic analyses were performed on the JGI version 1.1 release of the proteome. All three proteomes were the most currently available versions at the time of analysis. For brevity, the official locus identifiers used in the Oryza and Populus proteomes have been abbreviated. For the Oryza data set, the locus identifier has been shortened by removing the characters 'LOC_' prior to each loci (for example, Os01g01010.1 corresponds to LOC_Os01g01010.1). For the Populus data set, the locus identifier has been shortened to a three letter abbreviation to indicate the Populus proteome followed by the unique numerical identifier for each sequence (for example, Pop171407 corresponds to jgi|Poptr1_1|171407). To identify candidate GPCRs, bioinformatic analyses were performed with software designed to directly predict putative GPCRs, to predict protein topology, to predict the presence of signal peptides, and to classify putative GPCRs into family, subfamily, and type. Computational analyses to directly predict candidate GPCRs were initiated by analyzing the complete proteome of Arabidopsis with the QFC algorithm [CITATION], GPCRHMM [CITATION], and PRED-GPCR [CITATION]. The QFC algorithm from Kim et al. [CITATION,CITATION] was run using the default feature set and discriminant cutoff values; the results were further filtered by a discriminant function for ion channels based on amino acid usage frequency difference between GPCRs and channel proteins (J Kim, unpublished data). Analyses using GPCRHMM were performed with the local scoring option turned on. The Arabidopsis proteome version 6.0 was independently analyzed twice with PRED-GPCR. The first analysis was performed with the default parameters and the second analysis was performed with a less stringent user defined filtering option: combined family motif off, Global E-Value motif cutoff set to 1.1, and CAST low complexity filtering off. The Oryza and Populus proteomes were analyzed by GPCRHMM and QFC with the same software settings as those used for Arabidopsis. Topology prediction was performed on the Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes by analyzing the complete proteomes with TMHMM version 2.0 [CITATION], HMMTOP version 2.0 [CITATION], and Phobius [CITATION]. TMHMM2 was run using the 'one line per protein' option. HMMTOP2 was run in the advanced mode with the parameters: FASTA format, Single Sequence type, Reliable prediction type, text output, and the results in one line. Phobius was run in the Normal prediction mode with the short output format mode selected. Signal peptide predictions were performed on the Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes using Phobius. Only a single run of Phobius is necessary to obtain signal peptide predictions and TM domain prediction as they are co-predicted. For those protein sequences identified as having a signal peptide by Phobius, the sequences were cleaved 'in silico' and the predicted mature protein sequences were analyzed using TMHMM2 and HMMTOP2. Phobius was not utilized for TM domain prediction of the predicted mature protein sequences because the co-prediction analytical method of Phobius could lead to additional in silico cleavage of the mature proteins and consequent inaccurate TM domain prediction. GPCR classification was performed using the GPCRsIdentifier executable program [CITATION] and was applied to analyze the set of heptahelical proteins identified in our topological analyses of the Arabidopsis, Oryza and Populus proteomes. All of our candidate GPCRs from all three proteomes were assessed for coupling specificity using Pred-Couple 2 [CITATION] and examined for the presence of domains catalogued in the Pfam database [CITATION]. GPCRHMM, HMMTOP2, Phobius, Pred-Couple 2, and the Pfam queries were run using their respective public web servers, while the QFC algorithm was run locally on a LINUX cluster. The initial whole proteome analyses using TMHMM2 were kindly provided by Dr Jannick Bendtsen while subsequent analyses by TMHMM2 were performed over the internet. PRED-GPCR analyses of the Arabidopsis proteome were kindly provided by Dr Pantelis Bagos (University of Athens, Greece). The stand alone executable GPCRsIdentifier program was obtained from the author [CITATION] and run locally. Results from the BTP method as published by Inoue et al. [CITATION] were downloaded from the publisher's supplemental information website. The published BTP analysis was performed on the 2001 version of the Arabidopsis proteome and only protein sequences from their published results retaining an exact match to a protein sequence in the TAIR ATH1 version 7.0 were considered further. It is notable that almost all of our whole proteome analyses were performed, or could have been performed, using the publicly available web servers in a reasonable amount of time with the exception of PRED-GPCR, which appears to time out while analyzing large batch submissions. All the raw output files from the computational analyses were formatted, coded where appropriate, and used to create a relational database where the single unifying field between all tables for each respective proteome was the Locus identifier with splice variant information where available. BLASTClust (NCBI) was used to create the set of non-redundant proteins for each proteome with the percent identity and sequence length options set to 100% and the alignment length threshold enforced for all sequences. Redundant proteins were handled by using the lowest numerical identifier within a redundant protein set as a representative identifier. The data sets of corresponding splice variant or other protein redundancies within each proteome are available as Additional data files 12, 13, and 14. Arabidopsis, Oryza and Populus protein sequences potentially orthologous to our Arabidopsis high ranking candidate GPCRs were identified using the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix and the BLAST algorithm implemented as a module in the BioEdit software package [CITATION], with a cutoff value of e-20. Additional analyses performed to identify homologous sequences were performed using the public BLAST service at NCBI. Multiple sequence alignments were prepared in DAMBE [CITATION] using ClustalW and the Blosum series protein matrix. Phylogenetic trees were reconstructed in MEGA4 [CITATION] using the neighbor joining method with pairwise deletion of alignment gaps, Poisson correction for amino acid substitutions, and 1,000 bootstrap replicates. Coupling of the Arabidopsis heterotrimeric G-protein α subunit, GPA1, and proteins selected from the highest ranking pool of candidate GPCRs was experimentally investigated using the membrane-based split-ubiquitin system assay [CITATION,CITATION]. Split-ubiquitin system linker adapted gene specific primer pairs were designed to include a 5' translation initiation codon but not a 3' termination codon and were used to amplify the full length open reading frame cDNAs of the candidate GPCRs and GPA1. The cDNAs were cloned into the TOPO-BLUNT II vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California, U.S.A), sequenced, and the inserts were recovered by restriction digestion and gel purification. The Nubwt, NubG and Cub fusion constructs were created by homologous recombination following co-transformation of 50-100 ng of insert and 50-100 ng of linearized split-ubiquitin system vector into the haploid AP5 and AP4 yeast strains. AP4 transformants containing a Cub fusion construct were mated to AP5 transformants having one of the four Nub fusion constructs and then selected on SD minimal media. Protein-protein interaction was assayed by patching diploid cultures to SD minimal media plates lacking His and Ade but containing either 0 μM, 200 μM, or 1 mM methionine and scored by visualization of yeast growth after 3-5 days. All experiments were independently replicated at least twice starting from the co-transformation stage.
