!~ABS~! Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) oxidizes, reduces, and isomerizes disulfide bonds, modulates redox responses, and chaperones proteins. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains 12 PDI genes, but little is known about their subcellular locations and functions. We demonstrate that PDI5 is expressed in endothelial cells about to undergo programmed cell death (PCD) in developing seeds. PDI5 interacts with three different Cys proteases in yeast two-hybrid screens. One of these traffics together with PDI5 from the endoplasmic reticulum through the Golgi to vacuoles, and its recombinant form is functionally inhibited by recombinant PDI5 in vitro. Peak PDI5 expression in endothelial cells precedes PCD, whereas decreasing PDI5 levels coincide with the onset of PCD-related cellular changes, such as enlargement and subsequent collapse of protein storage vacuoles, lytic vacuole shrinkage and degradation, and nuclear condensation and fragmentation. Loss of PDI5 function leads to premature initiation of PCD during embryogenesis and to fewer, often nonviable, seeds. We propose that PDI5 is required for proper seed development and regulates the timing of PCD by chaperoning and inhibiting Cys proteases during their trafficking to vacuoles before PCD of the endothelial cells. During this transitional phase of endothelial cell development, the protein storage vacuoles become the de facto lytic vacuoles that mediate PCD.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis PDI5 is one of 12 PDI genes found in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION; CITATION). A homozygous T-DNA insertion (SALK_010645; http://signal.salk.edu) within the pdi5 locus was identified using PCR (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), and it is located −248 bp upstream from the initiator ATG codon in the 300-nucleotide 5′ untranslated leader. The PDI5 gene is predicted to encode a spliced sequence of 1506 bp for a deduced polypeptide of 501 amino acids (locus number AAD41430) that contains a putative signal peptide, two thioredoxin catalytic domains (TRX and PWCghC), and an ER KDEL retention motif (Figure 1 ). We generated a polyclonal rabbit antibody against a peptide in PDI5 (DKNKDTVGEPK, residues 478 to 488; Figures 1B and 1C). The specificity of the antiserum was tested in situ by immunolabeling high-pressure frozen Escherichia coli cells expressing the recombinant PDI5 protein (see Supplemental Figures 2C and 2D online) as well as by immunoblot analysis of protein extracts from these cells (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis using the anti-PDI5 antiserum on protein extracts of wild-type Arabidopsis plants identified a 68-kD polypeptide (Figures 2A and 2B ), which was abundant in flowers, stems, and immature seeds and was less abundant in leaves and siliques (Figure 2B). No immunodetection was seen in any tissues of the homozygous pdi5Δ mutant (T-DNA SALK_010645) (Figure 2B) nor in mature siliques and roots of wild-type plants (Figure 2B). RT-PCR analyses of the three PDI5 gene insertion lines (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1C online) and the wild type showed that Salk_010645, which is the insertion line used in this study, gave no detectable mRNA. The absence of PDI5 protein and PDI5 mRNA in the mutant confirms that pdi5Δ is indeed a null mutant. [[FIGURE]] To characterize the expression of PDI5 in young flowers (Figure 2B), we examined the distribution of PDI5 in florets using light, fluorescence, and electron microscopy. Figure 3A illustrates the tissues of a stage 12 Arabidopsis flower (CITATION; CITATION), including the gynoecia organ, which encompasses the developing ovules, the septum, the ovary, and the petals. Immunofluorescence labeling with the polyclonal PDI5 antiserum (Figure 3B) revealed a weak general fluorescence in all gynoecial tissues, including the ovules, the septum, and the ovary. Little labeling was seen in the petals. In electron micrographs of immunolabeled endothelial cells within the ovules, virtually all of the anti-PDI5 labeling was seen over ER cisternae (Figure 3C), consistent with the presence of a predicted KDEL ER retention motif and consistent with the classic localization of PDI in mammals and plants. Immunocytochemistry controls for the specificity of the anti-PDI5 antiserum are shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online. In the absence of the specific antiserum, there was no immunofluorescence or immunogold labeling of endothelial cell sections. [[FIGURE]] We used light and immunofluorescence microscopy to investigate the cellular distribution of PDI5 in longitudinal sections of developing seeds (silique stages 16 to 19; CITATION) and to correlate the expression of PDI5 in the differentiating cells with the following stages of embryo development: the pre-embryo stage (Figure 4A ), the globular stage (Figure 4B), the heart stage (Figure 4C), and the early-bent cotyledon stage (Figure 4D). [[FIGURE]] The cell layer that is immunolabeled in Figures 4A to 4C is referred to as the endothelium or endothelial layer in this article. This name has a long history (CITATION) and is used extensively in recent literature (e.g., CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, it is not universally accepted. Other names given to this cell layer include pigment layer (CITATION), integumentary tapetum (CITATION), inner epidermis (CITATION), endothecium (CITATION), inner integument layer 1 (CITATION), and L5 ovule integument layer (CITATION). Characteristic features of the endothelial layer include direct contact with the endosperm cells of the embryo sac, a cuticular layer on the cell wall facing the endosperm, and a dense cytoplasm that stains intensely with several histochemical stains (Figures 4 and 5 ). [[FIGURE]] The endothelial cell layer is most prominent during the pre-embryo stage and begins to thin thereafter, becoming nearly undetectable in the early-bent cotyledon stage. The autofluorescence of the tissue slices is illustrated in Figures 4A-1 to 4D-1. Accumulation of the PDI5 protein was specific to the endothelial cell layer (Figures 4A-2 to 4C-2), being abundant in the pre-embryo stage ovule (Figure 4A-2) and decreasing thereafter as this layer thinned and underwent PCD (Figures 4B-2 to 4C-2). By the early-bent cotyledon stage, all immunolabeling had disappeared (Figure 4D-2). The merged fluorescence images show the spatial relationship between the immunolabeling pattern of the endothelial layer and the developmental stage of the surrounding tissues (Figures 4A-3 to 4D-3). These findings demonstrated that PDI5 accumulated exclusively in endothelial cells from the pre-embryo up to the heart stage and disappeared when the endothelial cells underwent PCD in the early-bent cotyledon stage. The control experiments involved omission of the primary anti-PDI5 antiserum and/or incubation with the pre-immune serum to test for any cross-reaction of the secondary antibody (AF 555) (see Supplemental Figures 3A to 3D online) and for any nonspecific binding of the primary antibody (see Supplemental Figures 3E to 3H online). All controls consistently produced negative results. To better understand the cellular changes that parallel the decrease in PDI5 expression, we correlated stages of embryo development with modifications in endothelial cell architecture (Figures 5A to 5L). During the pre-embryo and two-cell stages (Figures 5A and 5B), the endothelial cells (Figure 5I) display a typical plant cell architecture with a large central LV and a thin layer of cortical cytoplasm containing many smaller PSVs, amyloplasts, and other cellular organelles. As the embryo develops into the globular and heart stages (Figures 5C and 5D), the PSVs fuse and expand, while the lytic vacuoles become smaller and fragment (Figure 5J). By the time this transformation is complete, the swollen PSVs occupy more than half of the cellular volume (Figure 5K). In the heart-torpedo stage (Figure 5E), the PSVs continue to enlarge and the cytoplasm decreases in size (Figure 5K). Finally, at the bent-cotyledon stage (Figures 5F and 5G), the nucleus, vacuoles, and cytoplasm degenerate and the surrounding tissues envelope the endothelial cells (Figure 5G). As the cellular endosperm expands, the endothelial cell layer degenerates from the central zone (Figure 5E, asterisks) through the chalaza to the micropyle (Figure 5F). Identification of the PSVs during this transformation involved immunolabeling with anti-δ-TIP antibodies (Figure 6E ) and antistorage protein 2S albumin antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 4A online), both of which are markers for PSVs. Unexpectedly, storage protein 2S albumins were also localized in the endothelial cell walls (see Supplemental Figures 4A and 4B online) but not in the walls of surrounding cells or embryonic cells (see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C online). Control experiments with omission of the primary anti-2S antibody showed no labeling of PSVs (see Supplemental Figures 3J and 3K online) or endothelial cell walls (see Supplemental Figure 4D online). These experiments demonstrate that the endothelial cells exhibit many features of cells undergoing PCD. [[FIGURE]] Sections of developing Arabidopsis seeds were immunolabeled with the PDI5 antiserum. In heart-stage embryos, the endothelial cells exhibited a normal complement of cellular organelles in addition to the swollen PSVs, which were larger than the LVs (Figure 6A). Anti-PDI5 antibody gold labeling was seen in LVs (Figure 6B), PSVs (Figure 6C), and ER cisternae (Figure 6D). To confirm that PDI5 is present in both types of vacuoles, we also labeled sections with the PSV membrane marker, anti-δ-TIP (for Tonoplast Intrinsic Protein) antibody (CITATION), both alone (Figure 6E) and after colabeling with anti-PDI5 antibodies (Figure 6F). The δ-TIP antibodies produced intense labeling over the membrane of PSVs (Figure 6E), and double-labeling experiments demonstrated that those vacuoles also contained PDI5 (Figure 6F). A low level of anti-PDI5 antibody labeling was present over LVs and PSVs of other embryonic cells (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). While the number of LVs is greater than the number of PSVs, the cross-sectional area (μm2) of the PSVs is ∼40-fold greater. The density of anti-PDI5 labeling over endothelial cell vacuoles (LVs and PSVs) was also five times higher than over the vacuoles of embryonic cells. These findings indicate that PDI5 is more highly expressed in heart-stage endothelial cells than in other types of cells in developing seeds and that, within the former, the bulk of PDI5 accumulates in PSVs. To elucidate the function of PDI5 in endothelial cell vacuoles, we screened two Arabidopsis cDNA libraries for proteins interacting with PDI5 bait using the yeast two-hybrid system. The principal isolates were clones encoding the following three Cys proteases: RD21 (NM_103612), CP43 (NM_123672), and CP19 (NM_112826), which represented 66, 31, and 3.8% of the total recombinants isolated, respectively. Three different validation tests were performed to verify the interaction specificity. β-Galactosidase (β-gal) activities of the reporter gene (Figure 7A ), which were based on an equal cell culture density (Figure 7B), represent the degree of interaction between the Cys proteases and PDI5. Cys protease RD21 had the highest level of β-gal activity, but each Cys protease had β-gal levels similar to the positive control. Growth on histidine dropout medium (CITATION) was also similar to the positive control (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), indicating a solid interaction. Cys protease RD21 has been found in the vacuoles of senescing Arabidopsis leaves (CITATION). We conducted coimmunoprecipitation assays on the two most abundant recombinant Cys proteases (RD21 and CP43) isolated (Figure 7C). The PDI5 antiserum coimmunoprecipitated with RD21 and CP43 only in the presence of recombinant PDI5 (Figure 7C). To determine the nature of the interaction, a Cys protease assay was performed in vitro with recombinant PDI5 and RD21 (Figure 7D). The presence of an equivalent amount of PDI5 inhibits the Cys protease RD21 by >50%. The dithiol reducing agent, DTT, partially disrupts the inhibition, whereas the dithiol oxidizing agent, dithionitrobenzene (DTNB), mimics the inhibition. [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis that Cys proteases associate with PDI5 during trafficking to vacuoles, we analyzed the subcellular distributions of PDI5 and Cys protease, RD21, in endothelial cells by means of double immunolabeling techniques. PDI5 and RD21 colocalized in ER cisternae (Figures 8A and 8D ), LVs (Figure 8B), PSVs (Figure 8C), the Golgi, trans-Golgi network (TGN), and vesicles (Figure 8D) of endothelial cells. Dual immunolocalization showed that PDI5 often surrounded RD21. Quantitative analysis of the colabeling experiments demonstrated that on a per μm2 area of vacuole, the LVs and PSVs contain similar amounts and ratios of anti-PDI5 and anti-RD21 binding sites (Figure 9 ). Taken together, the yeast two-hybrid, the coimmunoprecipitation, the in vitro Cys protease assay, and the colabeling experiments demonstrate that PDI5 associates with RD21 and that the two proteins traffic together from the ER through the Golgi to LVs and PSVs before the initiation of PCD of endothelial cells. All immunogold-labeling controls involved omission of the primary antibodies and/or substitution with the preimmune serum and gave negative results (see Supplemental Figures 3I to 3M online). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To assess the function of PDI5 on seed development, we used the homozygous pdi5Δ null mutant (Figure 1A) that lacks PDI5 protein (Figure 2B) and PDI5 mRNA (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). The pdi5Δ mutant had siliques with fewer seeds than the wild type, and clear gaps were evident in the seed rows where seed development was aborted (Figures 10C and 10D ). The number of aborted seeds varied greatly between siliques. The viability of the developing wild-type and mutant seeds was evaluated using the tetrazolium-based embryo viability test (CITATION). All wild-type seeds (Figure 10A, top) exhibited a uniform red color, indicating viability, whereas the red staining of the mutant seeds varied from a deep orange red color to no staining, indicating that only a fraction of the embryos were viable (Figure 10B, top). These findings suggest that the PDI5 knockout mutation reduces seed set and embryo viability. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seedlings and plants from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) wild-type and SALK mutant lines were used for the experiments. T-DNA SALK insertion lines (SALK_010645, SALK_015253, and SALK_136642, http://signal.salk.edu; seeds provided by the ABRC) were identified via PCR of Arabidopsis genomic DNA. The homozygous T-DNA line (SALK_010645) was verified by PCR analysis of genomic DNA of selfed plants using gene-specific PDI5 primers (5′-ATCTTTGAGGCTTTGGGGAAT-3′ and 5′-CTCCGTCTCTTCGCTTCTGAT-3′) and a T-DNA left border primer, LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) as described by CITATION. The accurate insertion positions were determined by sequencing each PCR product. Wild-type and homozygous pdi5Δ mutant seeds were surface-sterilized and then grown on soil (Farfard Super Fine germinating mix; American Clay Works and Supply Company) under 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles at 19 to 21°C for 4 to 6 weeks and on solid Murashige-Skoog (Gibco) media supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) phytagar (Gibco BRL). For seed viability tests, developing embryos were removed from siliques and soaked in 1% 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium-chloride solution (Sigma-Aldrich). Samples were incubated for 1 d in the dark at 37°C (CITATION), and photographs of siliques were recorded with a LEICA M212 stereomicroscope. Total RNA was treated with RNase-free DNase (Promega) and used to produce the first-strand cDNA with 1.0 units of M-MLV reverse transcriptase and oligo(dT) (Promega). Fifty nanograms of total RNA was used to amplify the transcripts of PDI5 and actin to produce first-strand cDNA. The first-strand cDNAs were mixed with 1× final concentration of reaction buffer (Bio-X-Act Short Mix; Bioline) and 50 ng primers, and PCR was conducted for 30 cycles. The number of cycles to generate a linear range of DNA amplification was previously determined for all PDI genes (CITATION). PCR products were visualized by staining with ethidium bromide after agarose gel electrophoresis. The gene-specific primers used in the study corresponded to exon-exon junctions to avoid amplification of genomic DNA. RT-PCR primers for PDI5 were forward, 5′CTCGTGAAGCTGAGGGTATTG-3′, and reverse, 5′-AAGATTGGAGCAAGCTTTTGG-3′. Primers for Actin2 were forward, 5′-TTGCAGGAGATGATGCTCCCAGG-3′, and reverse, 5′-CATTCCCACAAACGAGGGCTGG-3′. Polyclonal antibodies were raised against a unique synthetic peptide (New England Peptide) corresponding to amino acid residues 456 to 468 of PDI5. Affinity-purified antibody specificity was tested by immunoblot analysis and immunogold labeling of a recombinant PDI5 protein expressed in Escherichia coli cells. Flowers, leaves, siliques, and stems were collected from 4- to 6-week-old wild-type and homozygous pdi5Δ mutant plants grown on soil. Roots were collected from 4- to 5-week-old seedlings grown in Murashige-Skoog solid medium. Immature seeds were collected from the developing siliques of 6- to 8-week-old plants. Mature seeds were collected from mature siliques. Frozen tissue was ground with a mortar and pestle in liquid nitrogen and homogenized with extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 0.25 M sucrose, 2 mM DTT, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM PMSF, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). Protein concentrations were determined with a Bio-Rad kit. Proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE on 10% polyacrylamide gels and electroblotted onto nitrocellulose Hybond-ECL (Amersham Biosciences) using a semidry transfer technique. Protein blots were incubated with the polyclonal anti-PDI5 antiserum at 1:1000 dilution, and conjugates were detected using the ECL anti-rabbit IgG linked to horseradish peroxidase and the ECL chemiluminescence's kit (Amersham Biosciences). The coding cDNA for residues 21 through 497 of the 501 residues in the PDI5 protein (AAD41430) was inserted into the pBUTE vector (a kanamycin-resistant version of GAL4 bait vector pGBDUC1; CITATION) as a translational fusion to the GAL4 DNA binding domain. The resulting PDI5 bait vector was sequenced to confirm an in-frame fusion, transformed into mating type A of strain PJ694, tested for autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene, and then used in a yeast two-hybrid screen (CITATION; CITATION) of two Arabidopsis cDNA libraries cloned as fusions to the GAL4 activation domain in pGADT7-rec (Clontech). One library was prepared from 3-d-old etiolated seedlings, and the second was a composite prepared from entire 3-week-old seedlings stressed by various hormones and osmotic and environmental treatments as described by CITATION and at the University of Wisconsin Molecular Interaction Facility (www.biotech.wisc.edu/mif/). Approximately 18 million clones were screened via mating at the University of Wisconsin–Madison Molecular Interaction Facility (www.biotech.wisc.edu/mif/). Putative interactors were identified by growth on histidine dropout medium plus 1 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole and by β-galactosidase assays (described below). Negative controls included media only, empty prey (activation domain) vector (pGADC1; CITATION), prey construct expressing mouse epsin, and prey construct expressing human Fbox5, whereas positive controls for the yeast two-hybrid system were two premated interacting pairs: EH:Epsin (CITATION). Following selection, 81 yeast wells tested positive (via selection on histidine dropout plus 1 mM 3AT and β-galactosidase assay) for interaction. From these, 62 representative prey plasmids were retransformed into the alpha mating type of PJ694 and validated in a parallel mating and selection assay with the PDI5 bait and the empty bait vector. Fifty-nine clones were positive (grew in interaction selection media and β-gal positive) in the validation test, 51 of which were identified via sequencing. β-Gal activity was assayed in yeast cultures lysed by the addition of YPER (Pierce Biotechnology) combined with chlorophenylred-β-d-galactopyranoside (Roche Diagnostics) as a substrate. Yeast was mated on yeast extract-peptone-dextrose medium plus adenine for 24 h at 30°C and then grown on complete supplemental medium (Q-BIOgene) minus Leu and Trp. Equal quantities (200 μg) of recombinant PDI5 plus either recombinant RD21 or CP43 or total E. coli proteins [empty pET-25(+) vector] were mixed with 5 μg anti-PDI5 antiserum in 20 mM Tris-Cl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1 mM DTT and incubated for 2 h at 4°C. Thirty microliters of Protein-A Agarose beads (Invitrogen) was added, and the mixture was rotated (40 rpm) for 1 h at 4°C, centrifuged at 3000g for 10 min at 4°C, and washed three times with the above buffer. The pellet was resuspended in 25 μL of protein loading buffer, heated to 95°C for 5 min, and centrifuged for 30 s at 2000g. Supernatants were loaded onto a 10% polyacrylamide gel for SDS-PAGE. As controls, 40 μg recombinant PDI5, RD21, or CP43 were directly loaded on the gel. The proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and probed with a 1:750 dilution of anti-HA tag polyclonal primary antibody (BD Biosciences Clontech), and conjugates were detected using the ECL kit (GE Healthcare) as described above for immunoblotting. To construct the expression plasmids, the coding regions of RD21 and PDI5 cDNAs were amplified by RT-PCR from Arabidopsis (Col) wild-type mRNA. The forward and reverse primers of RD21 were 5′-GCCAAGCTTATGGGGTTCCTTAAGCCAACCA-3′ and 5′-GCACTCGAGGGCAATGTTCTTTCTGCCTTGTG-3′ (added HindIII and XhoI sites are underlined, respectively). The forward and reverse primers of PDI5 were 5′-AACGGATCCATGGCGATGAGGGGCTTCACG-3′ and 5′-GCGCTCGAGGAGCTCATCCTTGACTTCCTCA-3′ (added BamHI and XhoI sites are underlined). Each PCR product was digested, ligated into the expression vector pET25b+ (Novagen), and then transformed into DH5α cells for plasmid preparation and confirmation by sequencing. The recombinant proteins were expressed in BL21 (DE3) cells by growing cultures at 22°C for RD21 and 37°C for PDI5 with shaking at 250 rpm to OD600 = 0.6 and then induced with 0.5 mM isopropyl-d-thiogalactoside. Proteins were extracted, purified on Ni-NTA His-Bind columns as described by the manufacturer (Novagen), separated via 10% SDS-PAGE, analyzed by immunoblotting with anti-His-Tag antibodies, and detected by chemiluminescence using the ECL kit (Amersham Biosciences). Protease activity was assayed using a fluorescence-based (BODiPY) EnzChek protease assay kit (Molecular Probes). Four micrograms of affinity-purified RD21 and/or PDI5 were preincubated at 4°C with and without 5 mM DTT or 5 mM DTNB before processing in the assay. Fluorescence was read in a fluorometer (Turner Bio Systems) with a fluorescein filter (excitation at 485 ± 12.5 nm and emission at 530 ± 15 nm). The reading for PDI5 alone was subtracted from the sample values as background. The assays were conducted in three individual experiments and the data analyzed via analysis of variance. For light and immunofluorescence analysis, Arabidopsis developing flowers, siliques, and seeds were chemically fixed as previously described by CITATION. Samples of developing seeds, siliques, and young 12-stage florets prior to bud opening (CITATION; CITATION) of the wild type and pdi5Δ mutant were vacuum-fixed overnight at 4°C with 1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde (EMS) and 2% (v/v) paraformaldehyde (EMS) in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffered medium, pH 7.2. Samples were washed, dehydrated in ethanol, and embedded in LR White. The infiltrated samples were polymerized overnight at 60°C. LR White resin-embedded thin sections (0.5 to 1.5 μm) were stained with toluidine blue and observed on a Zeiss Axioplan microscope with DIC optics. Immunofluorescence labeling of flowers and developing seeds was performed as previously described (CITATION), except that the secondary antibody anti-rabbit IgG was conjugated to Alexa Fluor 555 (Invitrogen, Molecular Probes). The stained flowers, siliques, or seeds were observed with a Zeiss Axioplan2 equipped with epifluorescence irradiation optics and standard filter sets for Alexa 555 (Lambda Technologies Laboratory Service). Immunofluorescence images were acquired with the Image Intelligent digital camera at the same magnification and time exposure. For further processing, the images were imported as TIFF files into Adobe Photoshop 7.0.1. For immunogold labeling analysis, flowers and developing seeds were preserved by high-pressure freezing/freeze substitution techniques (CITATION). Whole individual 6-week-old Arabidopsis 12-stage florets and developing seeds were placed into an aluminum hat filled with 150 mM sucrose. The samples were frozen in a BALTEC HPM-010 high-pressure freezer (Technotrade) and then transferred to liquid nitrogen for storage. Freeze substitution was performed either in 2% OsO4 for Epon embedding or in 0.1% uranyl acetate plus 0.25% glutaraldehyde in anhydrous acetone in cryo-vials (Nunc) for Lowicryl HM20 embedding for 7 d at −90°C, followed by slow warming to room temperature or −50°C, respectively, over a period of 1 d. After three rinses in acetone, samples were embedded in Epon (Ted Pella), resin/acetone 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, and 2 × 100% (24 h for each concentration), or in Lowicryl HM20 resin (EMS), 33% (24 h), 66% (24 h), and 100% resin (3 d). Polymerization was performed at 60°C for the Epon resin samples and at −50°C under UV light for 2 to 3 d in flat bottom embedding capsules for the Lowicryl HM20 resin samples. For ultrastructural analysis of seeds, Epon resin-embedded sections were stained with uranyl actetate followed by lead citrate (CITATION). For immunolabeling, Lowicryl HM20 resin-embedded sections were placed on formvar-coated gold or nickel slot grids and blocked for 30 min with 3% (w/v) nonfat dried milk solution in 0.01 M phosphate-buffered saline, pH 7.2, containing 0.1% Tween 20 (PBST-milk). The sections were washed and then incubated with a 10-fold dilution of the following primary polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) for 2 h at room temperature: anti-PDI5, a vacuolar marker; anti-δ-TIP (CITATION), a protein storage marker; anti-2S albumin large chain (CITATION); and a Cys protease, anti-RD21 antibodies (CITATION). Sections were washed and transferred to a 25-fold dilution of secondary antibody goat anti-rabbit IgG-conjugated to 10- or 15-nm gold particles (Ted Pella) for 2 h at room temperature. After washing, samples were counterstained by uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Coimmunogold labeling of anti-PDI5, anti-δ-TIP, anti-2S, and anti-RD21 antibodies in nucellus cells involved the following modifications of the techniques described above. Sections were blocked with PBST-milk for 30 min, washed, blotted dry, and incubated for 1.5 h with the pAbs (anti-δ-TIP or anti-2S or anti-RD21). Grids were washed with 0.5% PBST and then transferred to a droplet of secondary goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to 10-nm colloidal gold particles and diluted 25-fold in PBST-milk for 1.5 h. Sections were washed again, fixed with 0.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in PBS, pH 7.2, for 30 min, and washed again. Samples were then blocked in PBST-milk again and blotted dry, incubated with either no antisera or specific antisera for 1.5 h with a pAb anti-PDI5, washed, and transferred to a droplet of goat IgG anti-rabbit IgG conjugated directly to either 10- or 15-nm colloidal gold particles for 1.5 h. Sections were washed and then poststained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. All observations were performed using a Philips CM10 microscope. The mean surface area (μm2) of the lytic and protein storage vacuoles was determined by stereological means (CITATION; CITATION). Five independent grids were analyzed, and from each grid 10 randomly chosen lytic and protein storage vacuoles were imaged. Labeling density of the anti-PDI5 or anti-RD21 antibodies was estimated on LVs and PSVs. The density of gold particle labeling was calculated as the average number of particles per μm2 of vacuoles. All controls involved omission of the primary antibody and/or incubation with the preimmune serum. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis Cys proteinase/thiol protease, putative 13 (CP13), At5g43060; Arabidopsis CP19, At3g19390; Arabidopsis CP28, At5g43060; Arabidopsis CP42, At3g19390; Arabidopsis CP43, At5g43060; Arabidopsis PDI5, At1g21750; Arabidopsis Cys protease responsive to dehydration/thiol protease 17 (RD21A17), At1g47128; Arabidopsis Cys protease responsive to dehydration/thiol protease 21 (RD21), At1g47128; Arabidopsis RD21A47, At1g47128; Arabidopsis RD21A52, At1g47128; Arabidopsis RD21A63, At1g47128; Arabidopsis NADH-ubiquinone reductase, At3g62790. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Genetic Map of Arabidopsis PDI5 Gene and T-DNA Insertion Mutant Lines. Supplemental Figure 2. Expression and Immunodetection of Recombinant PDI5 Protein in E. coli Cells. Supplemental Figure 3. Immunological Controls of PDI5 Antibody Specificity in the Endothelial Cell Layer and in Endothelial Cells. Supplemental Figure 4. Single- and Double-Immunogold Labeling of PSVs in Endothelial Cells with Anti-2S Albumin with/without Anti-PDI5 or Anti-RD21 Antibodies. Supplemental Figure 5. Quantitative, Comparative Analysis of the Number and Cross-Sectional Area of LV and PSV, and of Anti-PDI5 Labeling in Senescing Heart-Stage Endothelial and Embryonic Cells. Supplemental Figure 6. Interaction of PDI5 with Selected Prey in Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay. Supplemental Figure 7. Immunogold Labeling of BiP in Endothelial Cells.
