!~ABS~! Chloroplasts change their intracellular distribution in response to light intensity. Previously, we isolated the chloroplast unusual positioning1 (chup1) mutant of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). This mutant is defective in normal chloroplast relocation movement and shows aggregation of chloroplasts at the bottom of palisade mesophyll cells. The isolated gene encodes a protein with an actin-binding motif. Here, we used biochemical analyses to determine the subcellular localization of full-length CHUP1 on the chloroplast outer envelope. A CHUP1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion, which was detected at the outermost part of mesophyll cell chloroplasts, complemented the chup1 phenotype, but GFP-CHUP1, which was localized mainly in the cytosol, did not. Overexpression of the N-terminal hydrophobic region (NtHR) of CHUP1 fused with GFP (NtHR-GFP) induced a chup1-like phenotype, indicating a dominant-negative effect on chloroplast relocation movement. A similar pattern was found in chloroplast OUTER ENVELOPE PROTEIN7 (OEP7)-GFP transformants, and a protein containing OEP7 in place of NtHR complemented the mutant phenotype. Physiological analyses of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing truncated CHUP1 in a chup1 mutant background and cytoskeletal inhibitor experiments showed that the coiled-coil region of CHUP1 anchors chloroplasts firmly on the plasma membrane, consistent with the localization of coiled-coil GFP on the plasma membrane. Thus, CHUP1 localization on chloroplasts, with the N terminus inserted into the chloroplast outer envelope and the C terminus facing the cytosol, is essential for CHUP1 function, and the coiled-coil region of CHUP1 prevents chloroplast aggregation and participates in chloroplast relocation movement.
!~RES~! To determine the subcellular localization of the full-length CHUP1 biochemically, we performed immunoblot analyses of whole leaves and isolated chloroplasts using two different polyclonal antibodies, one against the N-terminal (head) 200 to 320 amino acids (αH) and the other against the C-terminal (tail) 700 to 1,004 amino acids (αT) of CHUP1 (Fig. 1A ). A specific CHUP1 band of approximately 150 kD was detected with both anti-CHUP1 antibodies in whole leaf extracts of wild-type plants but not in extracts of chup1 plants (Fig. 1B). The CHUP1 signal was also detected in the purified chloroplast fraction from wild-type plants (Fig. 1C). Interestingly, CHUP1 protein was not detected after treatment of isolated chloroplasts with the protease thermolysin (Fig. 1D). The transport protein Toc159, which is also sensitive to thermolysin, is localized on the chloroplast outer envelope and known to project into the cytoplasm (CITATION), suggesting that CHUP1 may also be located on the chloroplast surface. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the subcellular localization of CHUP1, we generated transgenic plants stably expressing GFP fused to the N terminus (GFP-CHUP1) or C terminus (CHUP1-GFP) of CHUP1 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter on the chup1 background (Fig. 2A ). An immunoblot analysis using whole leaf extracts of transgenic plants confirmed that CHUP1-GFP and GFP-CHUP1 accumulated to the levels of endogenous CHUP1 in the wild type, although the GFP-CHUP1 and CHUP1-GFP were detected as different sizes (Fig. 2B, top). GFP-CHUP1 was not detected in an isolated chloroplast fraction (Fig. 2B, bottom). Analyses of intracellular chloroplast distribution under various light conditions revealed that the transgenic lines expressing CHUP1-GFP showed normal chloroplast relocation, but GFP-CHUP1 could not complement the chup1 phenotype (Fig. 2C). Although the GFP fluorescence of CHUP1-GFP and GFP-CHUP1 was faint, CHUP1-GFP was observed at the periphery of chloroplasts and GFP-CHUP1 was not (Fig. 2D). The localization observed is consistent with the results of the immunoblot analyses (Figs. 1 and 2, B and D). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the chloroplast targeting region of CHUP1, we used particle bombardment to transiently express various fragments of CHUP1 fused to GFP in leaf cells of wild-type plants. Two types of fluorescence patterns were observed, one surrounding chloroplasts and the other cytosolic (Fig. 3A ). CHUP1 fragments containing the N-terminal hydrophobic region (NtHR) were fused to the N terminus of GFP to form CHUP11-25-GFP, CHUP11-100-GFP, CHUP11-300-GFP, and CHUP11-500-GFP. All were detected at the periphery of the chloroplasts, consistent with the distribution of CHUP1-GFP in Figure 2D. CHUP1 fragments were then fused to the C terminus of GFP to form GFP-CHUP11-25, GFP-CHUP1500-1004, GFP-CHUP1750-1004, and GFP-CHUP1950-1004; all were detected in cytosol (Fig. 3A). This result was consistent with the distribution of GFP-CHUP1 in stably expressed transgenic lines shown in Figure 2D, but neither GFP-CHUP1 nor CHUP1-GFP fluorescence was observed in the transiently expressing plants (data not shown). To clarify which parts or amino acids among 25 amino acids in NtHR were necessary for the localization, we constructed various deletion constructs deleted from either the N-terminal or C-terminal side of NtHR fused with GFP and transiently expressed them in leaf palisade mesophyll cells. Almost all 25 amino acids tested were necessary for targeting NtHR-GFP fragments to chloroplasts (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Next, we compared the amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis NtHR with those of CHUP1 orthologs from rice (Oryza sativa), fern (Adiantum capillus-veneris), and moss (Physcomitrella patens). We found that the NtHR of all of the orthologs contained large hydrophobic residues and some charged and polar amino acids, such as Arg and Ser, as consensus amino acids (Fig. 4A ). When NtHR-GFPs of the CHUP1 orthologs were expressed transiently in Arabidopsis leaf cells, GFP fluorescence was detected at the periphery of chloroplasts for OsCHUP11-25 (rice CHUP1) and PpCHUP1A1-25 (moss CHUP1) but not AcCHUP1A1-25 (fern CHUP1; Fig. 4B). To investigate the importance of the consensus amino acids Arg-4, Ser-12, and Arg-20, each modified NtHR sequence fused to GFP was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaf cells. GFP fluorescence was found at the periphery of chloroplasts when one of these amino acids in the NtHR was changed to Ala, whereas the fluorescence was found in the cytosol when two or all three of these amino acids were changed (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] To address the correlation between NtHR and chloroplast distribution, NtHR-GFP was expressed stably under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in wild-type cells of Arabidopsis (Fig. 5A ). Transgenic lines were classified into three groups according to the expression level of NtHR-GFP (Fig. 5B). In the highly expressing lines, endogenous CHUP1 was detected as the same level as in wild-type plants (Fig. 5C). GFP fluorescence was found at the periphery of chloroplasts in all transgenic lines (Fig. 5D); however, chloroplasts in these transgenic lines showed abnormal positioning and aggregation even under weak light conditions (Fig. 5D). The chloroplast distribution became more abnormal as the NtHR-GFP expression level increased, and chloroplast positioning in the highly expressing line was similar to that in the chup1 mutant (Fig. 5D). These results suggest that excessively expressed NtHR-GFP disturbs the function of CHUP1 by competing with authentic CHUP1 to target chloroplasts; that is, it has a dominant-negative effect. To confirm this hypothesis, we performed a similar experiment with CHLOROPLAST OUTER ENVELOPE PROTEIN7 (AtOEP7), which inserts its N terminus into the outer envelope and exposes its C terminus to the cytosol (CITATION). A construct of the OEP7 targeting signal fused to GFP (OEP71-50-GFP) was introduced into wild-type plants. The sequence of the targeting signal region of OEP7 (OEP71-50) shows very low similarity to the NtHR sequence, although both sequences have hydrophobic regions (Fig. 5E). Nevertheless, in the transgenic plants, chloroplasts aggregated and GFP fluorescence was observed at the periphery of chloroplasts (Fig. 5F), consistent with the pattern seen with NtHR-GFP. [[FIGURE]] We next examined whether the amino acid sequence of NtHR is essential for CHUP1 function by replacing the NtHR of CHUP1 with OEP71-50. Genes encoding the full-length CHUP1 or two CHUP1s modified at the N terminus (CHUP1ΔNtHR and OEP71-50-CHUP1ΔNtHR) were expressed in chup1 mutant plants under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 6A ). The transcript of each construct in each transgenic line was confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR with specific primers (Fig. 6B). Endogenous CHUP1, exogenous CHUP1, and OEP71-50-CHUP1ΔNtHR were expressed at their predicted sizes, as confirmed by immunoblot analysis, but CHUP1ΔNtHR was not (Fig. 6C). It is possible that CHUP1ΔNtHR was degraded because it was not localized to the correct position, the chloroplast outer envelope. We then tested whether the mutant phenotypes were complemented by these constructs under various light conditions. Chloroplasts in transgenic lines expressing CHUP1 or OEP71-50-CHUP1ΔNtHR showed normal chloroplast relocation similar to that of the wild-type plants under all light conditions tested, but chloroplasts in the CHUP1ΔNtHR transgenic lines did not (Fig. 6D). These results indicate that the presence of an N-terminal region is essential for CHUP1 function, although the wild-type sequence can be replaced with OEP71-50. Thus, the localization of full-length CHUP1 at the chloroplast envelope is essential to its function in the chloroplast relocation machinery. [[FIGURE]] CHUP1 has various putative functional regions, including an N-terminal chloroplast targeting signal region (N), a coiled-coil region (C), a filamentous actin binding region (A), a Pro-rich region (P), and a C-terminal highly conserved region (Ct; Fig. 7A ). However, the roles of these regions in chloroplast relocation movement remain unknown. To examine whether these regions participate in the physiological regulation of chloroplast relocation, we conjugated various types of truncated CHUP1 to GFP and stably expressed these genes in chup1 plants under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 7A). An immunoblot analysis showed that these transgenes were expressed in each transgenic plant (Fig. 7B). However, the calculated sizes of the accumulated CHUP1-GFP proteins in the transgenic lines expressing CHUP11-300(N-C), CHUP11-500(N-C-A), and CHUP11-700(N-C-A-P) were larger than the sizes estimated from the gene constructs (Fig. 7B). In contrast, the transgenic line expressing CHUP11-50,500-1004(N-P-Ct) showed a specific signal at the predicted size (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] Next, we investigated the physiological effects of these constructs on chloroplast relocation under various light conditions by observing chloroplast positioning, focusing from top to bottom of the palisade mesophyll cells, with a microscope. In wild-type palisade mesophyll cells, a few chloroplasts were localized to the surfaces of cells, but mostly at the anticlinal position if they had been kept in the dark for 3 h. After 12 h in the dark, most chloroplasts were localized to the cell bottom, as reported previously (CITATION). In contrast, chloroplasts accumulated along the periclinal and anticlinal sides of palisade mesophyll cells under weak and strong light conditions, respectively (Fig. 7C). On the other hand, at all light intensities, and even in the dark, the chloroplasts of N-C, N-C-A, and N-C-A-P transgenic plants were positioned along the whole part of anticlinal sides of palisade mesophyll cells, as observed for chloroplast positioning in the wild-type plants under strong light conditions (Fig. 7C). The N-P-Ct transgenic plant still showed the chup1 phenotype (Fig. 7C). Since all of these constructs except for N-P-Ct contain the coiled-coil region of CHUP1, the function of the coiled-coil region must be responsible for the chloroplast distribution along the anticlinal cell walls. To further examine whether chloroplasts in these transgenic lines respond to light, we analyzed chloroplast relocation movement in N-C-A plants by time-lapse imaging after microbeam irradiation. In cells of wild-type plants, chloroplasts moved toward the area irradiated with weak light but avoided the areas of strong light (Fig. 7D; Supplemental Movie S1). However, no chloroplast relocation movement was observed in cells of the N-C-A transgenic lines, although the chloroplasts of the transgenic line looked firmly anchored to the plasma membrane in any light conditions (Fig. 7D; Supplemental Movie S2). The fact that CHUP11-300(N-C) does not contain the filamentous actin-binding region raises the question of whether cytoskeletal components are involved in this chloroplast distribution. We tested whether treatment with cytoskeletal inhibitors would change the chloroplast distribution pattern under weak light in the transgenic lines (Fig. 7E). The chloroplast distribution pattern was not affected at all by latrunculin B (LatB) and BDM in any line tested (Fig. 7E). To address the function of the coiled-coil region for attaching chloroplasts to the plasma membrane, we transiently expressed three truncated N-terminal regions of CHUP1 fused with GFP in wild-type cells (Fig. 8A ). GFP fluorescence from CHUP125-322-GFP (i.e. the coiled-coil region with GFP) was detected at the plasma membrane in a pattern identical to that of the fluorescence of N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl)pyridinium dibromide (Fig. 8B), which was used as a plasma membrane marker (CITATION). However, the fluorescence of CHUP125-166-GFP (a truncated coiled-coil region with GFP) was detected in the cytosol, similar to the pattern of GFP as a control (Fig. 8B). GFP fluorescence from CHUP125-500-GFP in palisade mesophyll cells was too weak to determine its subcellular localization (Fig. 8B). These results indicate that the coiled-coil region of CHUP1 interacts with the plasma membrane, enabling CHUP1 to bridge the chloroplast and the plasma membrane to anchor chloroplasts on the anticlinal side. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of the coiled-coil region of endogenous CHUP1 in light-dependent chloroplast relocation, we observed the distribution patterns of chloroplasts in wild-type, chup1, phot1phot2, and N-C-A lines under weak light conditions after treatment with the cytoskeleton inhibitors LatB and BDM (Fig. 9 ). When these plants were kept in the dark for 3 h, chloroplasts gathered at the cell bottom in chup1 cells but were located along the anticlinal plasma membrane in the wild-type, phot1phot2, and transgenic N-C-A plants (Fig. 9A). In the wild type, chloroplast accumulation at the periclinal plasma membrane was usually observed after transferring the plants to weak light, but the relocation movement was not observed after treatment with LatB or BDM (Fig. 9A). No chloroplast relocalization was observed in phot1phot2, N-C-A, and chup1 plants irrespective of the presence of cytoskeletal inhibitors and even under weak light conditions (Fig. 9A). Finally, we observed chloroplast distribution under strong light in these plants. We observed chloroplast relocation from the avoidance to the accumulation positions only in wild-type plants, and this movement was prevented by the cytoskeletal inhibitors (Fig. 9B). These results indicate that chloroplast distributions in phot1phot2 and N-C-A leaves are determined by the coiled-coil structure of endogenous CHUP1 that is located along the anticlinal plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of wild-type (accession Columbia, gl-1), chup1-2 (CITATION), and transgenic lines of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were sown on the surface of one-third-strength Murashige and Skoog medium solidified with 0.8% (w/v) agar containing 1% (w/v) Suc on plastic culture plates as described previously (CITATION), incubated at 4°C for 2 d, and then grown under light conditions of 16 h of light (white fluorescent light at 70 μmol m−2 s−1) and 8 h of dark at 22°C for 3 to 4 weeks in an incubator (Biotron LH300-RPSMP; Nippon Medical and Chemical Instruments). Two different regions of the CHUP1 gene, corresponding to H1 (121 amino acids of CHUP1 at the coiled-coil region; CHUP1200-320) and T1 (the 305 amino acids of CHUP1 at the C-terminal region; CHUP1700-1004), were cloned into a pET21d vector for expression in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells (Novagen) as the His-tagged fusion proteins CHUP1-H1 and CHUP1-T1, respectively. Expression was induced by the addition of 1 mm isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside for 4 h at 37°C. The cells were harvested and broken in a commercial bacterial cell lysis buffer (CelLytic; Sigma-Aldrich). CHUP1-H1 was recovered in the soluble fraction, whereas CHUP1-T1 became insoluble. CHUP1-T1 was solubilized with a buffer containing 7 m urea, 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), and 300 mm NaCl. The solubilized protein was purified with a Talon metal affinity column (Clontech). The purified proteins were desalted with NAP-10 columns (GE Healthcare) containing 0.01% Triton X-100 and used for the generation of antibodies in rabbits, as described previously (CITATION). Rosette leaves of Arabidopsis were homogenized with phosphate-buffered saline (137 mm NaCl, 8.1 mm Na2HPO4, 2.68 mm KCl, and 1.47 mm KH2PO4) containing 10% (w/v) glycerol. The homogenized samples were centrifuged at 10,000g for 5 min. The supernatants (20 μg of protein) were mixed with an equal volume of 2× sample buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl [pH 6.8], 2% [w/v] SDS, 6% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol, and 10% [w/v] glycerol). The solubilized samples were subjected to SDS-PAGE separation on a 7.5% (w/v) acrylamide gel. The resolved proteins were blotted onto a Hybond-P membrane (GE Healthcare). The anti-CHUP1-H1 (αH) and anti-CHUP1-T1 (αT) antibodies were diluted 1:2,000 and used to detect the CHUP1 proteins. An anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with alkaline phosphatase (GE Healthcare) was used as a secondary antibody for both the αH and αT primary antibodies. Finally, cross-reactive protein bands were detected using a commercial alkaline phosphatase development kit (ProtoBlot II AP System with Stabilized Substrate Kit; Promega). To determine the CHUP1 localization in chloroplasts, immunoblot analysis was performed with isolated chloroplasts treated with thermolysin, 100 or 200 μg mL−1 for 20 min on ice. Toc159, Toc75, Tic110, and cpHsp70 were used as known controls of chloroplast proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Rosette leaves of Arabidopsis (10 g fresh weight) were homogenized in 200 mL of a homogenizing medium (50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 7.8], 330 mm sorbitol, 2 mm EDTA, 1 mm MnCl2, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 5 mm sodium ascorbate) using a modified mixer equipped with razors. The homogenate was filtered through a doubled rayon-polyester filter (Miracloth; Calbiochem). The filtered samples were centrifuged at 1,500g for 5 min. The precipitate was gently resuspended in 10 mL of a washing medium containing 50 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.8), 330 mm sorbitol, and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete EDTA-free; Roche Diagnostics). This fraction was loaded on layers of 40% and 80% Percoll medium (40% or 80% [v/v] Percoll [GE Healthcare], 50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 7.8], 330 mm sorbitol, and the protease inhibitor cocktail). After centrifugation at 1,500g for 15 min, intact chloroplasts banded at the interface between the 40% and 80% Percoll media were carefully recovered. The isolated chloroplasts were washed with the washing medium by centrifugation at 1,500g for 5 min. The precipitate was resuspended in the washing medium and used as intact chloroplast samples. All procedures were carried out at 4°C. To generate plasmids for transiently expressing fusion proteins of each DNA fragment and GFP, the corresponding regions were amplified by PCR using specific primers and a CHUP1 cDNA or OEP7 cDNA as a template (Supplemental Table S1). The PCR products were cloned into the CaMV35-sGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION; CITATION) at the SalI-NcoI site for N-terminal GFP fusion and at the BsrGI-NotI site for C-terminal GFP fusion. The resulting plasmids were named as described in Supplemental Table S1. To generate plasmids for transformation of Arabidopsis, each DNA fragment that had been cloned in the CaMV35-sGFP(S65T) plasmid for transient expression of GFP fusion proteins as described above was introduced into a binary vector, pPZP211, at the XbaI-SmaI site (Supplemental Table S1). Transformation was performed according to the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated floral dip method (CITATION). T1 plants were selected on a medium containing one-third-strength Murashige and Skoog salts and 1% Suc with 0.8% agar and 25 μg mL−1 kanamycin. On the basis of segregation of kanamycin resistance, T2 lines that contained a single transgene locus were selected, and homozygous T3 seeds were maintained for further experiments. At least three homozygous lines were used for each transgenic plant in this study. All of the transgenic plants were isolated independently. Arabidopsis leaves were bombarded with gold particles (1 μm in diameter) coated with plasmid DNA using a gene delivery system (PDS-1000/He particle delivery system; Bio-Rad) as described previously (CITATION). The samples were incubated at 22°C for 12 h before observation with a microscope. Total RNA was isolated using an RNA isolation kit (RNeasy Plant Mini Kit; Qiagen) from rosette leaves of transgenic plants. RT-PCR was performed according to the instructions in a commercial RT-PCR kit (PrimeScript RT-PCR Kit; TaKaRa). The primers used to identify each transcript from the transgenes were the specific forward primers CHUP1 (5′-AAGTCGACATGGGAAAAACTTCGGGA-3′), CHUP1ΔNtHR (5′-AAGTCGACATGTCCAAACCAAGCAAACCATCAG-3′), and OEP71-50-CHUP1ΔNtHR (5′-ATGGGAAAAACTTCGGGA-3′), and a common reverse primer, 5′-AACCATGGACTCTTTCTCAGCTTTCTCCAAGT-3′. Chloroplast relocation in palisade mesophyll cells of transformants was analyzed with detached leaves incubated on agar plates under weak light (10 μmol m−2 s−1), strong light (100 μmol m−2 s−1), or in the dark for 3 h after adaptation in the dark for 6 h. Chloroplast positioning of each palisade mesophyll cell was visually determined with a microscope (Axioplan2; Zeiss) while adjusting focuses throughout the cell from top to bottom. The subcellular localization of CHUP1-GFP, GFP-CHUP1, and NtHR-GFP was determined using a fluorescence microscope (Axioplan2; Zeiss) or a laser scanning microscope (LSM Meta 510; Zeiss). Before observation, detached leaves were adapted to weak light for 3 h. Chloroplast relocation movement of wild-type and transgenic lines was observed as described previously (CITATION). The individual cell was irradiated with a microbeam of blue light with a spot size of 19 μm in diameter. Images of observed cells were obtained at 30-s intervals. The intensity of the blue light was 3 μmol m−2 s−1 for the weak light response and 30 μmol m−2 s−1 for the strong light response. Cells were incubated in the dark for at least 12 h before use. Fluorescence intensity was measured as a gray value with the public domain software ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). The average fluorescence intensities of GFP were obtained by measuring the fluorescence intensity at the chloroplast periphery of 20 individual chloroplasts in both the GFP and NtHR-GFP lines. The fluorescence intensity of each NtHR-GFP line was expressed as fluorescence percentage normalized to the value of the GFP line with sd. LatB (Biomol) and BDM (Sigma-Aldrich) were used to disrupt the actin filament and inhibit myosin function, respectively. LatB and BDM were dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide as stock solutions of 2 mm and 1 m, respectively. Final concentrations of 100 μm LatB and 50 mm BDM were used in the experiments. Detached leaves placed on agar plates were adapted to either strong light or dark for 3 h. Then the leaves were submerged in medium containing either inhibitor and incubated under weak light for 3 h. Chloroplast distribution was observed with a microscope as described previously (CITATION). The cDNA sequences for AtCHUP1, OsCHUP1, AcCHUP1A, AcCHUP1B, PpCHUP1A, and PpCHUP1B were deposited in the DNA Data Bank of Japan under accession numbers AB087408, NM001072463.1, AB444611, AB444612, AB292414, and AB292415, respectively. The cDNA sequence for AtOEP7 was deposited in GenBank under accession number NP_190810. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table S1. Primer sets for the plasmids used in these experiments. Supplemental Movie S1. The accumulation response and avoidance response of chloroplasts in wild-type cells. Supplemental Movie S2. The response does not occur in N-C-A transgenic plants. For details, see the legend of Figure 7D.
