!~ABS~! We compare three Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) complex glycan1 (cgl1) alleles and report on genetic interaction with staurosporin and temperature sensitive3a (stt3a). STT3a encodes a subunit of oligosaccharyltransferase that affects efficiency of N-glycan transfer to nascent secretory proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum; cgl1 mutants lack N-acetyl-glucosaminyltransferase I activity and are unable to form complex N-glycans in the Golgi apparatus. By studying CGL1-green fluorescent protein fusions in transient assays, we show that the extra N-glycosylation site created by a point mutation in cgl1 C5 is used in planta and interferes with folding of full-length membrane-anchored polypeptides in the endoplasmic reticulum. Tunicamycin treatment or expression in the stt3a-2 mutant relieved the folding block, and migration to Golgi stacks resumed. Complementation tests with C5-green fluorescent protein and other N-glycosylation variants of CGL1 demonstrated that suppression of aberrant N-glycosylation restores activity. Interestingly, CGL1 seems to be functional also as nonglycosylated enzyme. Two other cgl1 alleles showed splicing defects of their transcripts. In cgl1 C6, a point mutation affects the 3′ splice site of intron 14, resulting in frame shifts; in cgl1-T, intron 11 fails to splice due to insertion of a T-DNA copy. Introgression of stt3a-2 did not restore complex glycan formation in cgl1 C6 or cgl1-T but suppressed the N-acetyl-glucosaminyltransferase I defect in cgl1 C5. Root growth assays revealed synergistic effects in double mutants cgl1 C6 stt3a-2 and cgl1-T stt3a-2 only. Besides demonstrating the conditional nature of cgl1 C5 in planta, our observations with loss-of-function alleles cgl1 C6 and cgl1-T in the stt3a-2 underglycosylation background prove that correct N-glycosylation is important for normal root growth and morphology in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We addressed the molecular basis for missing complex glycan formation in three available Arabidopsis cgl1 alleles. Mutants cgl1 C5 and C6 were originally identified in a screen of EMS-mutagenized M2 seedlings (CITATION) and shown to contain mRNA levels comparable to those of the wild type (CITATION). Sequence analyses of PCR-amplified genomic DNA fragments proved that both result from single G-to-A base changes. For cgl1 C5, our data confirmed the change at position 1,231 reported by CITATION. Besides altering a conserved sequence motif, the mutation creates a new N-glycosylation site (CITATION) in the context of Arabidopsis GnTI (CITATION). For cgl1 C6, we established that the G-to-A change at position 2,556 alters the 3′ splice site of intron 14 (Fig. 1A ). Insertion mutant cgl1-T was identified in the SIGnAL-SALK database. Genomic PCR analyses confirmed that a single T-DNA resides within intron 11 (Supplemental Fig. S1A). Sequence analyses of both border fragments located the T-DNA insertion at position 1,792 without any base deletion. [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm the predicted molecular defects in cgl1 C6 and cgl1-T at the transcript level, we characterized the structures of mutant CGL1 transcripts by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and sequence analyses. For cgl1 C6, sequencing the products amplified with Ex12/13_F and Ex18_R (Fig. 1B) revealed that intron 14 is aberrantly spliced by shifting the 3′ splice site to the next G, introducing a translational frame shift (Fig. 1A). Larger PCR products found in cgl1 C6 were aberrant transcripts that retain intron 15, 16, and 17 (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Fig. S1C). For cgl1-T, transcripts were characterized using primers binding upstream or flanking the T-DNA insertion. RT-PCR with upstream primer pairs 5′_F and Ex3_R detected wild-type transcript levels; however, PCR using primer pairs Ex6_F and Ex12_R flanking the T-DNA insertion yielded no product for cgl1-T (Fig. 1B). This demonstrated that cgl1-T does not produce intact CGL1 transcripts. Since we could detect chimeric CGL1:T-DNA transcripts (Supplemental Fig. S1B), it appears that mature CGL1-T transcripts contain unspliced intron 11 with an additional 4.5 kb of T-DNA sequence. In both cgl1 C6 and cgl1-T, the mutations create premature stop codons a few codons downstream of the mutated sites (Fig. 1C). Due to the D→144N change, CGL1 C5 polypeptides most likely acquire a second N-glycan (CITATION) upon cotranslational insertion into the ER membrane. Based on a three-dimensional model of the catalytic domain, the D→144N change lies in a buried region of the protein, whereas native glycan 351N is exposed at the surface (Fig. 2A ). CITATION compared the secretion of soluble versions of rabbit and Arabidopsis GnTI proteins in insect cells. They deduced that neoglycosylated C5 polypeptides are inactive due to aberrant folding and do not leave the ER. [[FIGURE]] In order to determine whether reduced frequency of N-glycosylation can specifically restore GnTI function of CGL1 C5 in planta, the viable stt3a-2 allele was introgressed into all three Arabidopsis cgl1 lines. STT3a encodes an isoform of OST subunit STT3, and the stt3a-2 mutation was previously shown to cause underglycosylation of glycoproteins (CITATION). Both double mutants cgl1 C6 stt3a-2 and cgl1-T stt3a-2 failed to react with complex glycan antiserum on immunoblots (“nonstainers”; Fig. 2B). This, however, was not the case for the cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 double mutant lines. Compared with the wild type and the cgl1 single mutants, cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 displayed intermediate complex glycosylation patterns on immunoblots (Supplemental Fig. S2). It is noteworthy that the complex glycosylation pattern and intensity in cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 match exactly those of the stt3a parent (Fig. 2B). Thus, despite the D→144N change in a highly conserved GnTI motif (CITATION; CITATION), CGL1 C5 polypeptides appear to retain sufficient activity to restore complex glycosylation in the stt3a mutant. In order to test the N-glycosylation status of CGL1 variants, cDNA fragments encoding wild-type and mutated CGL1 variants were fused to GFP (Fig. 3A ) and expressed in Arabidopsis wild-type and stt3a-2 mutant protoplasts. The variants of CGL1 tested include C5, CGL1* (lacking native glycosylation site 351N), and C5* (lacking native glycosylation site 351N but containing aberrant glycosylation site 144N). Experiments were conducted in both the presence and absence of proteasome inhibitor MG-132 to prevent potential degradation of aberrant fusion proteins (CITATION), which gave similar results (representative data shown in Fig. 3B). Consistent with the expected N-glycosylation states, CGL1-GFP variants displayed different mobilities in anti-GFP immunoblot analyses of transformed protoplasts. In both wild-type and stt3a mutant protoplasts, CGL1 variants showed similar electrophoretic mobility (Fig. 3B, top left and center). Furthermore, protein levels of C5-GFP and C5*-GFP were lower than those of wild-type CGL1-GFP and unglycosylated CGL1*-GFP in both genotypes. In stt3a-2 protoplasts, we occasionally observed additional bands for C5-GFP and C5*-GFP (Fig. 3B, top right), whose mobility is consistent with underglycosylated polypeptide forms. Interestingly, treatment with the N-glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin promoted the accumulation of C5-GFP and C5*-GFP in both wild-type and stt3a genotypes (Fig. 3B, bottom). This indicated that aberrant N-glycosylation interferes with the stability of CGL1 C5 polypeptides in plant cells. Nevertheless, since complex glycosylation is restored in the cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 double mutant, it appears that small amounts of underglycosylated CGL1 C5 polypeptides regain catalytic activity. [[FIGURE]] Since aberrant glycosylation of CGL1 C5 polypeptides may also affect Golgi targeting, we determined the subcellular location of fluorescent protein fusions using confocal laser-scanning microscopy. In transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts, CGL1-GFP and CGL1-OFP (for orange-shifted monomeric red fluorescent protein [mRFP]) both labeled Golgi stacks, as indicated by shape, size, and characteristic stop-and-go movements (CITATION; Supplemental Videos S1 and S2). Furthermore, fluorescent signals were redistributed into ER/Golgi-hybrid compartments upon incubation with brefeldin A (data not shown). When mutated C5-GFP and C5*-GFP constructs were analyzed in ecotype Columbia (Col) wild-type protoplasts, green fluorescence was not detected in Golgi stacks labeled by CGL1-OFP but faint GFP signals could be seen in the ER and in certain areas of the cytosol (Fig. 3C, arrows). This indicates that C5-GFP and C5*-GFP are not delivered to the Golgi apparatus but are likely degraded in the ER. In the presence of tunicamycin, Col wild-type protoplasts transformed with either C5-GFP or C5*-GFP constructs developed a typical Golgi pattern within 24 h after transfection that colocalized with CGL1-OFP used as an internal control (Fig. 3D, a–c and d–f). This showed that blocking N-glycosylation can restore protein folding of CGL1 C5, independent of the altered amino acid motif, so that migration to Golgi stacks resumes (Supplemental Video S1A). Expression of C5-GFP or C5*-GFP constructs in protoplasts of the stt3a-2 mutant resulted in Golgi labeling within 24 h (Fig. 3D, j–l and m–o), similar to tunicamycin-treated wild-type protoplasts. In the stt3a-2 mutant background, however, signal intensities of Golgi stacks were much lower than in tunicamycin-treated wild-type protoplasts, perhaps because only a small proportion of C5-GFP and C5*-GFP polypeptides are underglycosylated and allowed to exit the ER (Fig. 3D; Supplemental Fig. S3). In order to biochemically confirm the Golgi localization of CGL1 variants, structures of N-glycans attached to CGL1 polypeptides were analyzed using peptide:N-glycosidase F (PNGase F). PNGase F cleaves N-glycans that do not contain core Fuc modification. Since addition of core Fucs occurs in the Golgi apparatus, PNGase F-resistant N-glycans can be regarded as a hallmark for successful delivery to Golgi stacks. In order to obtain CGL1 variants in sufficient quantity, all constructs were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Subcellular localization and immunoblot profiles of CGL1-GFP variants expressed in agroinfiltrated N. benthamiana leaf tissue were consistent with those expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Supplemental Fig. S4; Supplemental Video S2). We found that C5-GFP displayed a downward mobility shift after PNGase F treatment. The lower Mr form produced after PNGase F digestion migrated similar to nonglycosylated CGL1*-GFP or C5-GFP produced in the presence of tunicamycin. In contrast, CGL1-GFP hardly shifted at all (Fig. 4 ). These findings establish that CGL1-GFP arrives in Golgi stacks, where core fucosylation of its N-glycan occurs, but C5-GFP decorated with two high-Man N-glycans remains in the ER. Taken together, our in planta approaches unequivocally show that CGL1 C5 is likely retained in the ER because of aberrant N-glycosylation. Prevention of aberrant N-glycosylation of C5-GFP and C5*-GFP polypeptides alleviated misfolding in the ER and enabled membrane-bound delivery to Golgi stacks. Next, we set out to determine whether this can explain the restoration of GnTI function in the cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 double mutant. [[FIGURE]] The ability of the N-glycosylation variants of CGL1 to restore complex N-glycan production in planta was analyzed by transient expression of CGL1-GFP constructs in cgl1-T mutant protoplasts. In addition, the impact of CGL1 underglycosylation was assessed by expressing the same variants in cgl1-T stt3a-2 protoplasts. In principle, all CGL1-GFP variants expressed in cgl1-T stt3a-2 restored complex glycan formation within 96 h on a fraction of proteins (traveling along the secretory route) compared with mock-transfected controls (minus DNA; Fig. 5 ). The extent of recovery varied among constructs and correlated with expression level of the GFP fusions. Best recovery was observed with CGL1-GFP (wild-type situation) followed by nonglycosylated CGL1*-GFP. These two protein fusions were clearly detectable with GFP antiserum (Fig. 5, arrows in bottom left sections). C5-GFP and C5*-GFP showed delayed and less efficient recovery of complex glycosylation in the cgl1-T stt3a-2 background, consistent with low abundance of the GFP fusions. In cgl1-T mutant protoplasts, only CGL1-GFP and CGL1*-GFP displayed Golgi labeling and produced complex modified glycoproteins (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Since all CGL1-GFP variants were localized to the Golgi apparatus in cgl1-T stt3a-2 protoplasts (data not shown), we conclude that complementation depends upon delivery of correctly folded CGL1 variants to Golgi stacks. As already observed for Col wild-type and stt3a-2 mutant protoplasts (Fig. 3B), C5-GFP and C5*-GFP signals were hardly detectable in cgl1-T stt3a-2 protoplasts (Fig. 5, bottom right sections). This might be due to a generally reduced stability of aberrantly glycosylated polypeptides in protoplasts. Nevertheless, this demonstrates that minimal amounts of CGL1 C5 protein are functional and can account for the recovery of complex glycosylation in cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 double mutant lines (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Fig. S2). Probably, this can also explain why transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants with less than 3% GnTI activity produce normal levels of complex glycans (CITATION) and indicates that “low-stainer” plants obtained by an antisense approach in tobacco and potato (Solanum tuberosum; CITATION) are essentially devoid of GnTI. None of the tested single or double mutants with N-glycosylation defects displayed obvious growth phenotypes in soil (data not shown). However, differences in root growth were detected on vertical agar plates (Fig. 6 ). The most striking morphological deviations (i.e. shorter, more branched, and hairy roots) were displayed by cgl1 C6 stt3a-2 and cgl1-T stt3a-2 double mutants (Fig. 6A). Root growth of cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 seedlings resembled the wild-type and single mutant parents, which can be explained by suppression of the cgl1 C5 defect in the stt3a-2 mutant background (described above). Close-up images of root tips show that all cgl1 alleles produce longer root hairs compared with Col wild type or stt3a-2 (Fig. 6B). In cgl1 C6 stt3a-2 and cgl1-T stt3a-2 double mutants, stunted growth of the root hair zone probably accounts for the bushy appearance (Fig. 6A). Scanning electron microscopy images of root tips show that root hairs of the cgl1-T stt3a-2 double mutant are much thinner and longer than those of the Col wild type (Fig. 6C). The latter seems to be a feature of true loss-of-function cgl1 alleles, since roots of stt3a-2 single and cgl1 C5 stt3a-2 double mutants grown in parallel have shorter hairs (Fig. 6B). Together, these findings point to problems with expansion and probably also division of cells in the root elongation zone as a consequence of combining two basic N-glycosylation defects (i.e. less frequent core glycosylation in the ER combined with aberrant N-glycan modification in the Golgi). An obvious glycoprotein candidate known to affect root tip morphology when mutated in Arabidopsis is KORRIGAN1 (KOR1/RSW2), a class II membrane protein with eight predicted N-glycosylation sites (CITATION). The β1,4-d-glucanase activity of KOR1 seems to play crucial roles for cellulose biosynthesis at the plasma membrane (CITATION) and during cytokinesis (CITATION; CITATION). In accordance, we observed altered SDS gel migration of KOR1 protein in cgl1-T, stt3a-2, and mutants with other N-glycosylation defects (CITATION). In the past, root hair phenotypes have been associated with defects in various secreted enzymes. Among them is KOJAK, a cellulose synthase-like protein found in Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa; CITATION; CITATION), glycoproteins affecting the synthesis of extracellular matrix components in Arabidopsis (e.g. LRX1; CITATION; CITATION), and COBRA (CITATION; CITATION). In this context, it is noteworthy that the latter seems to be indispensable for oriented root cell expansion. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana Col) plants were grown in soil under a long-day regime (16 h of light, 21°C). Backcrossed lines (more than seven rounds) of cgl1 C5#5 and cgl1 C6#22 EMS mutants (CITATION; CITATION) were used for all analyses. Information on T-DNA insertion lines was retrieved from the SIGnAL database at http://signal.salk.edu (CITATION). Intron line cgl1-T (SALK_073650) was provided by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, and stt3a-2 (SALK_058814) was provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). T3 individuals were analyzed for the presence of the T-DNA insertion by genomic PCR (Supplemental Fig. S1; data not shown). To generate double mutants, anthers of a previously established stt3a-2 BiP-GUS line (H. Koiwa, unpublished data) were used for pollination of emasculated cgl1 mutant flowers. F1 individuals that showed GUS staining in roots were selected (successful mates), checked for binding of complex glycan antiserum on dot-blotted leaf extracts (“stainers”; CITATION), and allowed to self. Among the segregating F2 progeny, double mutant candidates were checked for homozygosity of the T-DNA insertion at the stt3a-2 locus (see below). For protoplast isolation, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized with 12% hypochloride, placed on agar medium (0.8% agar, 1% Suc, and 0.5 Murashige and Skoog [MS] salts plus vitamins, pH 5.8), and kept at 4°C for 3 d. Plates were transferred to a growth room with artificial illumination (Phillips TLD, 36W/827 and 36W/840 twin bulb sets). One-week-old seedlings were transferred to Magenta boxes (Sigma) and grown in sterile culture for 4 to 5 weeks under a long-day regime (16 h of light/21°C, 8 h of dark/18°C) prior to harvesting sterile leaf material. For root growth analyses, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized, placed on hard agar plates (1.5% agar, 3% Suc, and MS salts plus vitamins, pH 5.8), and stratified for 3 d (CITATION). Seedlings of similar growth stages were transferred to a new plate and kept in a vertical position in a growth chamber (Percival E36L, equipped with Phillips F17T8/ TL741 17W neon light bulbs) under a short-day regime (8 h of light/20°C, 16 h of dark/18°C) for 5 to 7 d. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in soil in the greenhouse with permanent fertilization (2‰ NPK 14:6:24) and additional illumination (12 h of light/22°C; Phillips 400W/645 Master HPI-T Plus light bulbs, 250 μE at plant height). Three-week-old plants were used for Agro-leaf infiltrations. Genomic DNA was isolated from small amounts of leaf tissue (CITATION). PCR fragments were amplified with Phusion High-Fidelity DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes) and either subcloned into EcoRV-digested pBSK (Stratagene) or sequenced directly to identify the point mutation in C5 (1,235G→A) and in C6 (2,556G→A). To determine the exact position of the T-DNA insertion in cgl1-T, T-DNA border fragments (Phusion amplified with primer pair 5′_F/RBa1 or LBa1/3′_R) were subcloned into pJET (Fermentas) and sequenced using primers LBb1 and RBa1. Homozygosity at the C5 locus was determined either by 3-(cyclohexylamino)propanesulfonic acid (CAPS) analyses (CITATION) using C5-CAPS primers and FokI digests or by direct sequencing of genomic PCR products using CGL1_336F or CGL1_503R (see Supplemental Table S1 for primers used in this study). Total RNA from leaf tissue was isolated with the guanidinium HCl procedure (CITATION). Five-microgram aliquots were treated with RNase-free DNase I (Fermentas), primed with 30 ng of oligo(dT) (30-mers), and used for reverse transcription of first-strand cDNA with RevertAid H Minus M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) in 20-μL reactions. PCR amplification was conducted with various primer combinations (10 μm each) using 0.1-μL reverse transcriptase aliquots, 1 mm dNTP mix, and BioTherm Taq-DNA Polymerase (Genecraft) in the buffer provided. To obtain a three-dimensional structure model, the amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis CGL1 was analyzed with Swiss-model, an automated comparative protein-modeling server at http://swissmodel.expasy.org/workspace. A glycosylated protein model of CGL1 was created with GlyProt for in silico glycosylation of proteins (Glycosciences.de of the Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum Heidelberg) at http://www.glycosciences.de/modeling/glyprot/php/main.php. For OFP fusion constructs, we started from pOFP-ΔNco (T. Meyer, personal communication), a derivative of plant expression vector pSY526 with cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-mRFP cassette. The second NcoI site in the mRFP coding region was eliminated by silent mutagenesis using the Quick Change PCR mutagenesis protocol (Stratagene) and Phusion High-Fidelity DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes). The OFP-ER control was obtained by multistep cloning. First, a 950-bp HindIII-EcoRI fragment, comprising the 35S promoter and signal sequence of pBIN m-gfp5-ER (CITATION), was subcloned in pBSK (Stratagene). From pOFP-ΔNco, a 680-bp fragment was amplified with primer pair OFP-ER_F/R and inserted 3′ of the signal sequence into the pBSK subclone via EcoRI-SacI. The entire open reading frame (signal sequence-OFP-HDEL) was excised and inserted into plant expression vector pGFP2 (CITATION) via XbaI-SacI (replacing GFP) and termed pOFP2-ER. Short and full-length CGL1-OFP constructs were assembled in pOFP-ΔNco (via XhoI-NcoI) after reverse transcription of leaf mRNA (Col wild type) and PCR amplification of cDNA fragments with primer combination CGL1-OFP_F and CGL-s-OFP_R or CGL-OFP_R, respectively. GFP fusion constructs were obtained by transfer of short and full-length CGL1-cDNA fragments (via XhoI-NcoI) into pGFP2 (CITATION) after mutagenesis of the NcoI site in the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. To generate C5-GFP, the G-to-A point mutation (CGL1 position 1,235) was introduced into CGL1 by site-directed mutagenesis with SDM primer pair C5mut_F/R. Alteration of the native N-glycosylation context in CGL1 was done after consulting an amino acid alignment of plant GnTI sequences (CITATION). CGL1*-GFP and C5*-GFP constructs were created with SDM primer pairs C5*mut_F/R and CGL1*mut_F/R, respectively. All changes were confirmed by sequence analyses. Constructs were first tested by transient expression in protoplasts. Binary constructs were obtained by inserting expression cassettes into pGPT.VII (CITATION) via XhoI-SacI and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV2260 (CITATION) by direct transformation (CITATION). Protoplasts were prepared from leaves of 4- to 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants in sterile culture and transfected with the polyethylene glycol method as described by CITATION. Routinely, 5 × 105 protoplasts were incubated with 30 μg of pure plasmid DNA (NucleoBond AX kits; Macherey-Nagel) premixed in Tris-EDTA buffer up to a total volume of 50 μL. As a precaution, cefotaxime (0.1 mg mL−1 final concentration [f.c.]; Duchefa) was added to the final protoplast cultivation medium. Where indicated, proteasome inhibitor MG-132 (20 μm f.c.; Calbiochem) or glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin (5 μm f.c.; Serva) was either added already to protoplasts on ice (i.e. before transfection) or solely included during protoplast cultivation, which gave similar results. Tunicamycin-treated protoplasts were vital for about 24 h, but most cells died within 48 h of incubation, similar to a study with BY2 cells (CITATION). In contrast, protoplasts of the stt3a-2 mutant were vital for more than 3 d. Agro-leaf infiltration of soil-grown N. benthamiana plants was essentially done as described by CITATION. Fresh agrobacteria cultures (grown under selection in liquid YT medium at 28°C) were diluted (1:50) in YT medium, 10 mm MES, pH 5.6, supplemented with 100 μm acetosyringone (in dimethyl sulfoxide; Fluka), and incubated at 28°C overnight in a shaking-water bath. Cells were harvested by centrifugation (2,500g, 4°C for 15 min), adjusted to 1 OD600 with infiltration buffer (10 mm MES, pH 5.6, 10 mm MgCl2, and 100 μm acetosyringone), and incubated for 2 to 3 h at room temperature in the dark. To suppress gene silencing, Agrobacterium strain 19K (C58C1:p19, expressing a viral anti-silencing protein; CITATION) was grown in parallel, adjusted to 2 OD600, incubated as above, and mixed (1:1) with the recombinant test strains prior to infiltration. Leaves were infiltrated from the lower epidermis using a rubber clamp injection device holding a syringe (custom made by the shop at Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität). Tunicamycin (5–10 μm f.c.) was either added to the Agrobacterium suspension or infiltrated the following day. The latter improved detection of the GFP fusions. Light microscopy was performed with a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP2/AOBS) set up for simultaneous three-channel color detection. Fluorescing cells were spotted under an inverse microscope (Leica DM IRE2 UV) equipped with filter sets for detecting GFP (L5; Leica) or OFP (Phycoerythrin; AF Analysentechnik). One of two water-dipping objectives was used: 63× (0.9 W) for submerged leaf tissue on Petriperm plates (flexible bottom; Greiner), or 63× (1.2 W corrected) for protoplasts in a Bachhofer chamber (coverslip bottom). Confocal laser-scanning microscopy images were recorded digitally using the Leica confocal software. Excitation/emission wavelengths were 488/490 to 510 nm for GFP and 543/580 to 600 nm for OFP (orange-shifted mRFP or DsRed). As a reference, chloroplast fluorescence was recorded above 700 nm. During coexpression analyses, care was taken that real-time recorded signals did not bleed through into other detection channels. Equal amounts of cultivated protoplasts were cooled on ice and harvested by centrifugation (5 min at 1,000g, 4°C). Supernatants were discarded and cell pellets were frozen in liquid nitrogen. Leaf discs were excised with a cork borer and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Concomitant with thawing in protein extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.5, 250 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 1% β-mercaptoethanol, 0.6% SDS, and 1 mm Pefabloc SC; Serva), a tip of spatula polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (Sigma) was added to prevent protein oxidation. Samples were ground with a potter, and cleared supernatants were used for further analyses. Prior to PNGase F treatment, cleared leaf extracts were boiled for 3 to 5 min. Heated samples were diluted with extraction buffer to reduce SDS to 0.2% (f.c.) and supplemented with Triton X-100 (1% f.c.) and EDTA (10 mm f.c.). One unit of PNGase F (Roche) was added to each sample, mixed, and kept at 37°C for 18 h or longer prior to SDS-PAGE. Mock-incubated samples were treated in the same way, except for omitting the enzyme. Successful PNGase F digests reduce concanavalin A binding to blotted glycoproteins in the presence of Ca2+ and Mn2+ ions, as revealed by peroxidase-coupled affinoblot detection (CITATION). Protein extracts were separated by SDS-PAGE followed by western-blot transfer using the MiniProtean-III system (Bio-Rad). In brief, SDS gels were rinsed with transfer buffer (25 mm Tris, 192 mm Gly, and 5% methanol) and electrotransferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (PROTRAN; Schleicher & Schüll). Blotted proteins were stained with Ponceau S (0.3% [w/v] in 3% TCA; Serva) on the blot, documented with a scanner, and destained with TBST (20 mm Tris, pH 7.4, 150 mm NaCl, and 0.1% Tween 20) prior to 1-h incubation of the membrane in blocking buffer (2% nonfat milk powder in TBST). Incubation in primary antibodies diluted in blocking buffer (1:300–1:50,000 depending on the antiserum and detection system used) was either at room temperature for 2 h or at 4°C overnight. Blots were washed with TBS (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 500 mm NaCl), TBST, and TBS (10 min each) and incubated for 1 h with goat anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase conjugate (Bio-Rad), diluted 1:3,000 in blocking buffer for colorimetric detection, where indicated (CITATION; CITATION), and otherwise 1:20,000 for chemiluminescence detection with the ECL Advance Western Blotting Detection Kit (Amersham/GE Healthcare) and washed again with TBS, TBST, and TBS (as above) prior to development. For additional probing, blots were incubated in blot-strip buffer (2% SDS, 0.1 m β-mercaptoethanol in 62.5 mm Tris, pH 6.7; ECL detection kit manual) at 50°C for 30 min followed by extensive washing with TBST. Anti-GFP serum (rabbit) was purchased from Molecular Probes/Invitrogen. A polyclonal GnTI antiserum directed against the catalytic domain of potato (Solanum tuberosum) GnTI (CITATION) was purified using His-GnTI antigen immobilized on blot-strips. Those were incubated with crude antiserum at room temperature for 3 h, followed by two 5-min washes with TBS and two 5-min washes with phosphate-buffered saline. Bound antibodies were eluted by two 10-min incubations in 0.1 m Gly buffer, pH 2.5, followed by immediate adjustment to pH 7.4 using 1 M Tris-HCl, pH 9. Root growth assays were conducted on hard agar plates as described previously (CITATION). Photographs were taken at day 5 with a digital camera (Nikon D100, AF NIKKOR lens) prior to measuring root lengths. Close-up images were recorded with a light-sensitive digital camera (Leica DC 300F) attached to a stereomicroscope (Olympus SZ61). Seedlings were removed from hard agar plates and taken through a series of dehydration steps with increasing ethanol concentrations. Seedlings were kept in absolute ethanol, then dried with a critical point drier (Emitech K850), gold coated with a vacuum-sputter device (Emitech K550x), and examined by scanning electron microscopy (Hitachi S-3000N) at 15 kV under high vacuum. Micrographs were recorded digitally. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. A simple T-DNA insertion characterizes the cgl1-T allele (SALK_073650). Supplemental Figure S2. Complex glycosylation recovers in C5 stt3a-2 double mutants. Supplemental Figure S3. Signal intensities of labeled Golgi stacks differ in Col wild-type and stt3a-2 mutant protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S4. Analysis of CGL1-GFP and C5-GFP variants in Agro-infiltrated N. benthamiana leaves, coexpressing the m-OFP-ER reference. Supplemental Table S1. PCR primers used in this study. Supplemental Video S1. Plasmid DNA-transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts (after 24-h cultivation), coexpressing C5-GFP and Golgi control CGL1-OFP in the presence of tunicamycin. Supplemental Video S2. Agro-infiltrated N. benthamiana leaves (2 dpi), and protoplasts released thereof coexpressing C5-GFP or C5*-GFP plus the m-OFP-ER control.
