!~ABS~! COP1 (for CONSTITUTIVELY PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1) and the four partially redundant SPA (for SUPPRESSOR OF PHYA) proteins work in concert to repress photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana by targeting key transcription factors and phytochrome A for degradation via the 26S proteasome. Here, we report a detailed biochemical characterization of the SPA-COP1 complexes. The four endogenous SPA proteins can form stable complexes with COP1 in vivo regardless of light conditions but exhibit distinct expression profiles in different tissues and light conditions. The SPA proteins can self-associate or interact with each other, forming a heterogeneous group of SPA-COP1 complexes in which the exact SPA protein compositions vary depending on the abundance of individual SPA proteins. The four SPA proteins could be divided into two functional groups depending on their interaction affinities, their regulation of ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL5 degradation, and their opposite effects on COP1 protein accumulation. Loss-of-function mutations in a predominant SPA protein may cause a significant reduction in the overall SPA-COP1 E3 ligase activity, resulting in a partial constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype. This study thus provides an in-depth biochemical view of the SPA-COP1 E3 ligase complexes and offers new insights into the molecular basis for their distinct roles in the light control of plant development.
!~RES~! To monitor the expression pattern of endogenous SPA1 to SPA4 proteins, we raised member-specific polyclonal antibodies from rabbits for each SPA protein. To ensure the specificity of these antibodies, fragments containing ∼300 to 500 amino acids in the relatively less conserved N-terminal regions of SPA1, SPA2, and SPA4 were chosen to produce recombinant proteins as antigens (Figure 1A ). In the case of SPA3, which shares 76% amino acid identity with SPA4, a 120–amino acid fragment from the most divergent region of SPA3 was chosen to raise its antibodies. As expected, the protein gel blot of the total protein extracts from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings and individual spa mutants revealed that each of the four SPA proteins migrated at the predicated size and showed no observable cross-detection among the four individual SPA protein antibodies (Figure 1B). It is worthwhile to note that the spa2 mutant allele produces a truncated SPA2 protein at a level comparable to that of the endogenous wild-type protein; thus, a truncated protein band was observed in spa2 mutants together with a faint slightly higher cross-reacting background band. [[FIGURE]] Next, with these specific antibodies, we investigated the expression levels of endogenous SPA1 to SPA4 proteins in different tissue types. In 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants, SPA1 protein was highly abundant in leaves and flowers, but lesser amounts were detected in other organs (Figure 2A ; see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Notably, the highest level of expression was detected in root tissues for SPA2, which may implicate a role of SPA2 in regulating root development in darkness under the soil. SPA3 is expressed in stems, leaves, and, more copiously, in flowers, but it is almost undetectable in roots. Abundant expression of SPA4 was detected in most tissues examined (root, leaf, stem, and flower), but only a trace amount was detected in siliques. Moreover, the comparable expression levels of SPA proteins in both white light–grown seedlings and 4-week-old adult plants suggest that these SPA proteins are required for Arabidopsis development throughout different stages (Figure 2B). Together, our data suggest that the four SPA proteins are expressed in all developmental stages, but with distinct tissue-specific expression patterns. [[FIGURE]] Previous studies demonstrated that the transcript levels of SPA1, SPA3, and SPA4 are upregulated by various light signals, but the mRNA level of SPA2 is not altered in response to light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Here, we examined the protein expression patterns of these SPA genes under different light conditions. Consistent with the reported changes in transcript levels, the expression of SPA1 and SPA3 endogenous proteins is more abundant in 6-d-old seedlings grown under various continuous light conditions (white, far-red, red, and blue light) than seedlings grown in complete darkness (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Figure 1B online), while the expression of SPA4 is more abundant in both far-red light and blue light conditions than in darkness. By contrast, the level of SPA2 protein is approximately sixfold higher in dark-grown seedlings than in white light-grown seedlings. This result is in agreement with the previous finding that SPA2 is a predominant player in darkness (CITATION). We next investigated light regulation on SPA protein accumulation during a dark-to-light transition. For this experiment, 4-d-old dark-grown wild-type seedlings were transferred to white light for different periods of time and the abundance of individual SPA proteins was examined. As shown in Figure 2C, the abundance of SPA1, SPA3, and SPA4 proteins was upregulated by light. Consistent with the change in transcript level, the increase in SPA1 protein level was fast and could be detected after 1 h of light exposure, while the upregulation of SPA3 and SPA4 could only be clearly seen after 6 h of white light irradiation. By contrast, the endogenous SPA2 level was downregulated by light, which is evident after 1 h of white light irradiation for seedlings transferred from darkness. As reported previously (CITATION), the cellular pool of COP1 remained constant during the dark-to-light transition (Figure 2C; see Supplemental Figure 1C online). Since the most pronounced constitutive hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype can only be seen in the absence of all four SPA genes, these SPA genes must function redundantly in repressing photomorphogenesis (CITATION). To help understand the molecular basis of this functional redundancy, we first tested SPA protein self-association and interaction by an in vitro pull-down assay. In this assay (Figure 3A ), recombinant GAD-SPA fusion proteins (fused with the GAL4 activation domain at the N terminus) were used to pull down [35S]Met-labeled SPA proteins produced by coupled in vitro transcription/translation reactions (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3B, GAD-SPA1 can pull down SPA1 itself as well as the other three SPA proteins. Reciprocal experiments using GAD-SPA2, GAD-SPA3, and GAD-SPA4 fusion proteins as baits confirmed the self-association and pairwise interaction of these SPA proteins in vitro (Figures 3C to 3E). Interestingly, a quantitative analysis of the percentage of preys bound to each of the four GAD-SPA proteins revealed that SPA1 and SPA2 have the highest affinity toward each other among all possible hetero–pairwise interactions (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Furthermore, self-association of SPA1 and SPA2 was also significantly stronger than that of SPA3 and SPA4. The unequal strength of self-association or interaction among these SPA proteins may affect the formation and relative abundance of various SPA-COP1 protein complexes in vivo (see below). [[FIGURE]] Previous studies have shown that the coiled-coil domain of SPA1 mediates its interaction with COP1 (CITATION; CITATION) and that the WD-repeat domain is involved in binding the substrate proteins, such as HY5 and HFR1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine which region within SPA1 is responsible for mediating its self-association and interaction with other SPA proteins, we tested a series of deletion derivatives of SPA1 using an in vitro binding assay (Figure 4A ). 35S-labeled full-length SPA1 and deletion derivatives SPA1-NT696, SPA1-NT545, and SPA1-CC were used as the preys. GAD-SPA1, GAD-SPA2, and GAD were used as the baits. SPA1-NT696, which lacks the C-terminal WD-repeat domain, bound to both SPA1 and SPA2 at least as efficiently as the SPA1 full-length protein, indicating that the WD-repeat domain is not essential for SPA1 self-association or SPA1–SPA2 interaction (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Deletion of the coiled-coil domain strongly reduced but did not fully abolish these interactions. Furthermore, the coiled-coil domain by itself also supported weak interactions (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Hence, we conclude that the N-terminal region of SPA1 containing the kinase-like domain and the coiled-coil domain is sufficient for strong self-interaction and SPA2 binding, while the C-terminal WD-repeat domain of SPA1 is dispensable for these interactions. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether these SPA proteins can interact directly with each other in plant cells, we first used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BIFC) (CITATION) to investigate their interactions. Successfully transfected cells were monitored in the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) channel with a cotransformed CFP-talin construct. Coexpression of a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) N-terminal fragment fused to SPA1 with a YFP C-terminal fragment also fused to SPA1 in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells resulted in strong YFP fluorescence in the nuclei, indicating that SPA1 can self-interact (Figure 5A ). The BIFC system could only be reliably used for the SPA1–SPA1 interaction. For unknown reasons, the SPA2, SPA3, and SPA4 fusion proteins produced weak YFP signals when coexpressed with negative controls (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We next used an alternative approach to examine the colocalization of SPA proteins by coexpressing CFP-SPA and YFP-SPA fusion proteins in transiently transfected Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells. Figure 5B shows that CFP-SPA1 colocalized with YFP-SPA1, YFP-SPA2, and YFP-SPA4 in nuclear speckles. Interestingly, YFP-SPA4 only produced speckles when coexpressed with CFP-SPA1, indicating that SPA1 can recruit SPA4 into nuclear speckles. This colocalization suggests that SPA1 can interact with itself as well as with SPA2 and SPA4 in plant cell nuclei. We also observed colocalization of CFP-SPA2 and YFP-SPA2 (Figure 5B), thus supporting the conclusion that SPA2 can self-associate in plant cell nuclei as well. However, we did not observe any recruitment of SPA3 into the nuclear speckles of SPA1 (data not shown). To test for in vivo homodimerization of these SPA proteins, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing 35S promoter–driven N-terminal TAP (for tandem affinity purification)–tagged full-length SPA2, SPA3, and SPA4 transgenes in the spa1 spa2, spa3-1, and spa4-1 mutant backgrounds, respectively. The progeny homozygous for the respective transgene were selected, and the transgenes were subsequently introduced into the wild-type background by genetic cross for further biochemical assays. As shown in Figures 6A to 6C , the TAP-SPA2, TAP-SPA3, and TAP-SPA4 transgenes complemented their corresponding mutant phenotypes, suggesting that these TAP-SPA fusion proteins are functional. The expression of these SPA fusion proteins was confirmed by protein gel blot using anti-myc monoclonal antibody. We also generated transgenic plants expressing 35S promoter–driven full-length SPA4 fused with three copies of the flag epitope tag at the N terminus (3× flag-SPA4). [[FIGURE]] Using these and the previously generated 35S:myc-SPA1 transgenic lines, we examined the interaction of these tagged SPA proteins with their endogenous counterparts by coimmunoprecipitation. Wild-type Arabidopsis, spa control mutants, and transgenic lines were grown under continuous white light for 6 d. Protein extracts prepared from the seedlings were subjected to pull-down assays using an anti-myc affinity matrix (Figure 6E), IgG-agarose beads (Figures 6F and 6G), or anti-flag affinity matrix (Figure 6H). In the case of SPA1 (Figure 6E), the agarose beads conjugated with anti-myc antibody efficiently pulled down myc-SPA1 and a similar amount of endogenous SPA1. Similarly, both TAP-SPA3 and endogenous SPA3, but not the negative control RPT5, were pulled down in the immunoprecipitates from the 35S:TAP-SPA3 transgenic plants (Figure 6G). For SPA2, we used spa1 spa2/35S:TAP-SPA2 transgenic plants. Protein gel blot analysis from IgG precipitates using SPA2-specific antibody resulted in the identification of the TAP-SPA2 protein as well as the slightly fast-migrating truncated SPA2 protein that lacks the last 64 amino acids at the C terminus (Figure 6F). Of note, the truncated SPA2 protein is still able to coimmunoprecipitate and cofractionate with COP1 in vivo (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). In the case of SPA4, the endogenous SPA4 was not successfully detected in the immunoprecipitates using the anti-flag affinity matrix (Figure 6H). Instead, a slightly lower mobility band was recognized by both anti-flag and anti-SPA4 antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The identity of this band is not clear, but it is possible that it may represent a mixture of the endogenous SPA4 and 1× flag-tagged SPA4 (due to a separate ATG start codon in the third flag copy in the 3× flag-SPA4 construct). Regardless, our data confirmed the in vivo homodimeric interaction for at least SPA1, SPA2, and SPA3. We next examined the possible heteromeric association among these SPA proteins and the effect of light on these associations in vivo. As shown in Figure 7A , immunoprecipitation of TAP-SPA1 fusion protein from 6-d-old far-red light–grown and dark-grown spa1-3/35S:TAP-SPA1 seedlings also pulled down three other SPA proteins and COP1, but not the RPT5 negative control (Figure 7A). In similar experiments with TAP-SPA3 (Figure 7B) and TAP-SPA4 (Figure 7C), anti-myc antibody–conjugated beads immunoprecipitated not only the TAP fusion proteins but also the other SPA proteins and COP1. These results support the notion that these SPA proteins are able to form all possible heteromeric interactions and that all members of the SPA family of proteins associate with COP1 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] It is worth noting that in each pull-down assay, although essentially the same amount of COP1 was precipitated by TAP-SPA1, TAP-SPA3, and TAP-SPA4, the yields of TAP-SPA proteins in the immunoprecipitates were slightly higher under light conditions compared with darkness (Figure 7). This is most likely due to the elevated levels of total TAP-SPA proteins under light conditions. On the contrary, the yield of coimmunoprecipitated SPA2 protein seems to be downregulated by light (Figure 7), again consistent with the accumulation of SPA2 being highest in darkness. We next performed reciprocal immunoprecipitation to test the ability of COP1 to pull down each of the four SPA proteins in vivo. As shown in Figure 8A , COP1 was able to pull down each of the four SPA proteins effectively in various light conditions tested. Interestingly, the yields of endogenous COP1 precipitated by anti-COP1 antibody are similar regardless of the light signals, while the yields of individual SPA proteins pulled down by anti-COP1 antibody differ. A quantification of the ratios of each precipitated SPA protein versus COP1 suggests that the amounts of SPA proteins coimmunoprecipitated with COP1 were correlated with their expression levels in different light conditions (Figures 8B to 8E), with more SPA1, SPA3, and SPA4 and less SPA2 proteins being coimmunoprecipitated with COP1 under all light conditions. Furthermore, it is also possible that light may affect the affinity of the SPA–COP1 interaction. [[FIGURE]] To test whether SPA2, SPA3, and SPA4 are indeed components of COP1 complexes, as previously shown for SPA1 (CITATION), we performed gel filtration analysis using 6-d-old seedlings grown in both light and dark conditions. All four endogenous SPA proteins roughly cofractionated with each other and with COP1, regardless of light conditions (Figure 8F). The gel filtration patterns of all four SPA proteins were significantly altered in the cop1-5 mutant (Figure 8G), indicating that COP1 is essential for the integrity of the SPA-COP1 complexes. The profiles of the four SPA proteins can be classified into two groups: in the first group, SPA1 and SPA2 cofractionated at around 440 kD in the absence of COP1; the other group, including SPA3 and SPA4, cofractionated and migrated at much smaller fractions (around 200 kD) in the absence of COP1. Thus, we concluded that COP1 is required for proper complex formation for all SPA proteins. We also examined the gel filtration pattern of COP1 in a series of spa mutants. We did not see any notable change in the COP1 fractionation pattern between the wild type and a selected group of spa double mutants. However, both the quantity and integrity of the COP1 complexes were affected in the triple mutant spa1 spa2 spa3, although this was not observed in other triple mutants (Figure 8H). Strikingly, in the spa quadruple mutant, the COP1 complex was split into two parts, one eluting at around 700 kD and the other eluting at around 440 kD. Thus, the integrity of the SPA-COP1 association depends on the SPA proteins, although COP1 can aggregate into some complexed forms (the 700-kD fractions) in the absence of all four SPA proteins. To characterize the protein–protein interactions further among the four endogenous SPA proteins and COP1, we performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments using anti-COP1, anti-SPA1, and anti-SPA4 antibodies. As shown in Figure 9A , these antibodies consistently pulled down their respective endogenous protein as well as the other two proteins. It is interesting that the COP1 antibody can still bring down a reduced amount of SPA1 and SPA4 in the cop1-4 mutant seedlings. This is because cop1-4 produces a truncated COP1 protein containing the N-terminal 282 amino acids, including the SPA-interacting coiled-coil domain. This result supports the conclusion that the coiled-coil domain of COP1 is involved in mediating the interactions between COP1 and SPA proteins. [[FIGURE]] It is important to note that in both the SPA1 and SPA4 immunoprecipitates, the yields of COP1 were similar but the amounts of other SPA proteins pulled down were much reduced (Figure 9A, red box; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This unequal efficiency of immunoprecipitation of the different SPA proteins strongly argues against the presence of all SPA proteins in the same SPA-COP1 complex. Instead, the data suggest the coexistence of a group of heterogeneous SPA-COP1 complexes, all of which contain COP1 but that differ in the composition of SPA proteins. To gain further insight into the possible compositional configuration of the SPA-COP1 complexes, we took advantage of a unique distinction in the COP1 and SPA fractionation patterns of Arabidopsis seedlings and floral tissue of cauliflower (Brassica oleracea), a closely related species. Both anti-COP1 and anti-SPA1 antibodies recognize their respective counterparts from cauliflower floral extracts (Figure 9B). Strikingly, the size of the SPA1-COP1 complex in cauliflower floral tissue is around 440 kD in a gel filtration assay (Figure 9B), whereas Arabidopsis COP1 and all four SPA proteins show a very broad distribution toward larger fractions (Figure 9C). Thus, the cauliflower SPA-COP1 complexes could represent a stripped-down version, or core complex, while the Arabidopsis complexes may contain other peripheral subunits or represent an oligomerized form of the core complexes. To test this possibility, we performed size-fractionation analysis of Arabidopsis SPA-COP1 complexes with a more stringent high-salt wash (450 mM NaCl), which should strip away the peripheral subunits or disassociate the oligomerized complexes, thus reducing the apparent complex size. Indeed, under such a stringent condition, COP1, SPA1, and SPA4 still cofractionated with each other (Figure 9D), with the peak fractions changed from high molecular weight around 700 kD to smaller fractions around 400 kD. In addition, some COP1 fractionated to the size range representing COP1 dimers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether each SPA-COP1 complex contains at least two COP1 molecules (dimer), we tested the coimmunoprecipitation of endogenous COP1 with a TAP-tagged COP1 (TAP-COP1). As shown in Figure 9E, IgG agarose beads effectively pulled down TAP-COP1 and the endogenous COP1 from both dark- and light-grown seedlings. Thus, our data indicated that there are at least two copies of COP1 in a SPA-COP1 complex. It is worth pointing out that under normal salt conditions, no endogenous COP1 was detected in the dimer fractions. Thus, the COP1 dimer most likely exists within the heterogeneous SPA-COP1 complexes under normal physiological conditions. Overall, our data point to a possible tetrameric configuration of the heterogeneous SPA-COP1 core complexes that contain two COP1 molecules and two SPA molecules (Figure 9F). Theoretically, there are 10 possible compositional configurations for two SPA proteins within a complex, considering all possible homomeric and heteromeric associations among the four SPA proteins. As reported previously (CITATION; CITATION), various spa mutant combinations exhibited a varying range of hyperphotomorphogenic phenotypes (Figure 10A ; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). The spa quadruple mutant displayed a strong cop-like phenotype in darkness. All other spa mutants could be divided into two subgroups according to their dark-grown phenotypes: (1) mutants lacking both SPA1 and SPA2 proteins exhibited partial photomorphogenic development in darkness; (2) mutants lacking both SPA3 and SPA4 displayed a normal etiolation phenotype in darkness (Figure 10A). To determine whether their phenotypic differences can be correlated with the overall activity of the SPA-COP1 complexes, we examined HY5 accumulation in a series of spa mutants, as the abundance of HY5 can be used as a hallmark for COP1 activity. Interestingly, we noticed that HY5 abundance was higher in all spa mutants tested than in the wild-type background (Figure 10A; see Supplemental Figure 8 online), indicating that all SPA proteins contributed toward the targeted degradation of HY5. In particular, we detected high levels of HY5 protein in the spa1 spa2, spa1 spa2 spa3, and spa1 spa2 spa4 mutants that show a deetiolated phenotype in darkness (Figure 10B). By contrast, loss of spa3 and spa4 resulted in relatively low levels of HY5 accumulation. Additionally, loss of SPA1 or SPA2 in the spa3 spa4 background increased HY5 accumulation. Together, these data suggest a strict correlation between HY5 level and the severity of the spa mutant phenotype in darkness (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Furthermore, our data suggest that SPA1 and SPA2 contribute more to targeted HY5 degradation in darkness than do SPA3 and SPA4 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To gain further insights into the relationship between COP1 and SPA proteins, we examined COP1 protein accumulation in various spa mutants. Interestingly, elevated COP1 accumulation was observed in spa1 spa2 double mutants. On the contrary, COP1 abundance was slightly reduced in the normal etiolated spa3 spa4 double mutants (Figure 10C; see Supplemental Figure 9A online). Although additional lesions in SPA1 or SPA2 resulted in an increase of COP1 accumulation, the levels of COP1 in spa1 spa3 spa4 and spa2 spa3 spa4 mutants were still much lower than the levels in spa1 spa2 spa3 and spa1 spa2 spa4 mutants. It is also interesting that COP1 level was decreased by almost twofold in the spa quadruple mutant. Therefore, it appears that these SPA proteins might have opposite effects on COP1 accumulation. It is worth noting that the endogenous COP1 transcript levels are very similar in the wild type and the representative spa1 spa2 and spa3 spa4 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). Our data suggested that translational or posttranslational regulation may be involved in regulating the abundance of COP1 by SPA proteins. This conclusion is supported by the observation that treatment of wild-type and spa mutant seedlings with a proteasome inhibitor (50 μM MG132) resulted in increased COP1 protein amounts but not transcript levels (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). Furthermore, SPA1 and SPA2 play a negative role in regulating COP1 accumulation, whereas SPA3 and SPA4 are required to promote COP1 accumulation. Indeed, continuous treatment of the 5-d-old dark-grown seedlings with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 for 9 h enabled detection of polyubiquitinated forms of COP1 in the coimmunoprecipitates using spa3 spa4 double mutants (see Supplemental Figure 9B online). Our data also suggest that the high levels of HY5 accumulation in spa mutants cannot be solely due to the changes in COP1 levels, since even in the spa quadruple mutant, which shows a constitutive cop phenotype, there is ∼50% as much COP1 as in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 10 online), a situation similar to that in heterozygous cop1 mutant plants. As cop1 mutations are strictly recessive, our data provided another layer of evidence to support the notion that COP1 and SPA proteins must work cooperatively to mediate HY5 degradation in darkness and that loss of a predominant SPA-COP1 complex may result in changed functional output, such as the degradation of HY5 and photomorphogenic development. Additionally, we checked whether the difference in COP1 and HY5 protein levels seen in spa triple mutants could be caused by altered levels of the remaining SPA protein. The abundance of SPA1 and SPA4 was not obviously altered even in the absence of the other three SPA proteins (Figures 10D and 10G). However, accumulation of both SPA2 and SPA3 increased in the relevant triple mutants (Figures 10E and 10F). Thus, increased accumulation of one SPA protein in the absence of the other three SPA proteins is not sufficient for normal degradation of HY5 in vivo, further supporting our idea that COP1 and the four SPA proteins function cooperatively. The COP/DET/FUS proteins are known to be important negative regulators of photomorphogenesis (CITATION; CITATION). To test the possible involvement of other COP/DET/FUS proteins in regulating SPA proteins, we examined the expression of SPA proteins in dark-grown cop1-6, cop9-1, cop10-1, and det1-1 mutants. We observed that both COP1 and SPA proteins accumulated at high levels in both cop9-1 and det1-1 backgrounds (Figure 11 ). In the absence of COP10, accumulation of SPA2 and COP1 was slightly decreased compared with the wild-type. However, the abundance of SPA1, SPA3, and SPA4 was upregulated in the cop10-1 lethal allele. Our data suggest that these COP/DET/FUS proteins also play a role in regulating the steady state levels of SPA proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in the study are the Columbia-0 and RLD ecotypes unless otherwise stated. Some of the mutants and transgenic lines used in this study were described previously: spa1-3 (CITATION), spa2-1, spa1 spa2, spa1 spa2 spa3, spa1 spa2 spa4, and spa1 spa3 spa4 (CITATION), spa3-1, spa4-1, and spa3 spa4 (CITATION), spa2 spa3 spa4 (CITATION), cop1-4, cop1-5, and cop1-6 (CITATION), cop9-1 (CITATION), det1-1 (CITATION), cop10-1 (CITATION), 35S:TAP-SPA1 (CITATION), 35S:myc-SPA1 (CITATION), and 35S:TAP-COP1 (CITATION). The Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized and cold-treated at 4°C for 2 to 3 d, and then the plants were grown on solid 1× Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% sucrose for biochemical assays or with 0.3% sucrose for phenotype analysis. Cold-treated seeds were exposed to white light for 12 to 14 h and then transferred to continuous light conditions (0.5 μmol·m−2·s−1 for far-red light, 10 μmol·m−2·s−1 for red light, 4 μmol·m−2·s−1 for blue light, and 30 μmol·m−2·s−1 for white light) or continuous darkness, unless otherwise stated. The full-length open reading frames (ORFs) of SPA2, SPA3, and SPA4 were amplified from RNA isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings by RT-PCR with the following gene-specific primers: SPA2 forward primer (5′-ACTAACCGCGGGGACAAAATGGATGAGGGATCAGTAGGGGATGTG-3′) and SPA2 reverse primer (5′-ACTAAGGCGCGCCTCAGACCAACTGTAGAACTTTGATTGA-3′); SPA3 forward primer (5′-ACTAACCGCGGGGACAAAATGGAAGGTTCTTCAAATTCTAACTCT-3′) and SPA3 reverse primer (5′-ACTAAGGCGCGCCTCAAGTCATCATCTCCAGAATTTTTAT-3′); SPA4 forward primer (5′-ACTAACCGCGGGGACAAAATGAAGGGTTCTTCAGAATCTAGTTCC-3′) and SPA4 reverse primer (5′-ACTAAGGCGCGCCTCATACCATCTCCAAAATCTTGATATT-3′). All primers contain an in-frame AscI site at the 5′ end of each ORF and a SacII site at the 3′ end of each ORF. The resulting PCR products were cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). These constructs were used as LR reaction templates for subsequent cloning of SPA2 to SPA4 ORFs into the plant binary vector pN-TAPa (CITATION) using Gateway LR Clonase enzyme mix (Invitrogen). The transgenes are under the control of the 35S promoter. To generate 3× flag-tagged SPA4 transgene, we amplified a PCR fragment using SPA4 forward primer (5′-TTTGGGGTACCATGAAGGGTTCTTCAGAAT-3′) and SPA4 reverse primer (5′-AGCCAGAGCTCACTAGTTCATACCATCTCCAAAAT-3′). The PCR product (an in-frame KpnI/SacI fragment) was cloned into the binary vector pF3PZPY122 (CITATION). For stable transformation, the binary DNA constructs were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90). 35S:TAP-SPA2, 35S:TAP-SPA3, and 35S:TAP-SPA4 were transformed into spa1 spa2, spa3-1, and spa4-1, respectively. The 35S:flag-SPA4 construct was introduced into the previously generated 35S:TAP-SPA1 transgenic background (CITATION). All transformation was done via A. tumefaciens–mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected using gentamycin (200 mg/L; Sigma-Aldrich). To generate antibodies specific to each SPA protein, NotI/BamHI fragments containing amino acid residues 1 to 273 of SPA1, amino acid residues 1 to 500 of SPA2, amino acid residues 359 to 495 of SPA3, and amino acid residues 1 to 500 of SPA4 were cloned into pET28a (Novagen). Recombinant proteins were expressed in the bacterial strain BL21 (DE3) (Novagen). The soluble recombinant His6-SPA1 protein was purified using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid beads (Qiagen). The insoluble His6-SPA2, His6-SPA3, and His6-SPA4 recombinant proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and electroeluted. Polyclonal SPA antibodies were raised by immunizing rabbits using purified recombinant proteins as antigens. The antibodies were affinity-purified using the purified SPA antigen proteins immobilized on polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. The polyclonal antibodies against COP1, CSN3, CSN6, RPT5, and HY5 antibodies and the monoclonal antibodies against the flag and myc epitopes were described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Prey proteins of full-length SPA1 to SPA4, SPA1-NT696 (amino acid residues 1 to 696), SPA1-CC (amino acid residues 521 to 696), and SPA1-NT545 (amino acid residues 1 to 545) were synthesized in the presence of [35S]Met. Bait proteins GAD-SPA1, GAD-SPA2, GAD-SPA3, and GAD-SPA4 were synthesized in the presence of a mixture of [35S]Met and unlabeled Met. Both the prey and bait proteins were produced by coupled in vitro transcription/translation reactions (Promega), and the subsequent coimmunoprecipitation assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Immunoprecipitated proteins were detected using film in the linear range of detection, and the signal was quantified using image-analysis software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Three biological replicates were used for the quantification of the percentages of prey SPA proteins bound to baits. For BIFC analysis, the ORF of SPA1 was amplified by PCR and cloned by Gateway technology (CITATION) into the Gateway vectors pCL112 and pCL113, which carry N-terminal (YN) and C-terminal (YC) fragments of YFP, respectively. For colocalization experiments, the ORFs of various SPA genes were cloned into the pENSG-YFP and pENSG-CFP vectors using Gateway technology (CITATION). All cDNAs were expressed from the constitutive 35S promoter. For transient expression, these constructs were introduced into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells or Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells by particle bombardment using a helium Helios gun (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For the BIFC experiments, CFP-mTalin, under the control of the 35S promotor, was used as a marker for successful transfection (CITATION). Talin is an actin binding protein. CPRF1 fusion proteins were used as negative controls (CITATION). Fluorescence microscopy was performed using a Leica DMRE microscope equipped with a high-resolution KY-F70-3CCD JVC camera, differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics, and epifluorescence optics. Protein extraction, protein gel blot, and gel filtration analyses were performed as described previously (CITATION) with a modified lysis buffer: 50 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaF, 25 mM β-glycerophosphate, 2 mM Na3VO4, 10 mM NaF, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). For gel filtration analysis, 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were homogenized in the lysis buffer, and the extract was centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C, subsequently filtered though a 0.22-mm syringe filter, and fractionated using a Superose 6 column (Amersham Biosciences). After the void volume (7 mL) was achieved, consecutive fractions of 0.5 mL were collected. Protein samples were concentrated using Strataclean resin (Stratagene) and subsequently analyzed by protein gel blot. For pull-down assays, 1 mg of total proteins from Arabidopsis tissues was incubated with 40 μL of IgG-agarose beads (Amersham), 40 μL of anti-flag antibody–conjugated agarose beads (Sigma-Aldrich), or 40 μL of anti-myc–conjugated Sepharose beads (9E10 affinity matrix; Covance) in the total protein extraction lysis buffer without DTT for 3 h at 4°C. Next, the beads were washed three times in the lysis buffer containing 200 or 250 mM NaCl. The immunoprecipitates were eluted into a buffer containing 100 mM Gly at pH 2.5 and 100 mM NaCl. The samples were immediately neutralized by adding buffer containing Tris (2 M, pH 9.0) and 100 mM NaCl and then concentrated using Strataresin (Stratagene). Protein blot analyses were performed as described previously (CITATION). Three independent biological replicates were subjected to protein gel blot analysis. Protein gel blot signals were detected by film, with exposures in the linear range of detection. RPT5 was used as a loading control. For immunoprecipitation, 500 μg of total proteins was incubated with 2 μL of polyclonal anti-COP1 or anti-SPA antibodies for 2.5 h at 4°C. Then, 10 μL of protein A–agarose beads (Sigma-Aldrich) was subsequently added to each of the protein samples and incubated for 2 h at 4°C. The antigen-antibody-protein A-agarose conjugates were precipitated by centrifugation and washed twice with the lysis buffer containing 250 mM NaCl, followed by wash using the lysis buffer containing 150 mM NaCl two times. Then, the immunoprecipitated samples were released into the acid elution buffer (100 mM Gly, pH 2.5, and 100 mM NaCl), neutralized, and subjected to protein blot analysis as described above. For examination of COP1 levels in wild-type, spa1 spa2, and spa3 spa4 seedlings, dark-grown 5-d-old seedlings were vacuum-infiltrated with 50 μM MG132 (Calbiochem) dissolved in DMSO or DMSO alone for 10 min and kept immersed in the same solution for 9 h. Samples were extracted and analyzed by protein gel blotting using anti-COP1 antibody. Three independent plant samples were also processed for RNA gel blotting as described previously (CITATION). 28s rRNA was stained with SYBR Green for linearity detection. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At2g46340 (NM_130197), At4g11110 (NM_117181), At3g15354 (NM_148725), At1g53090 (NM_104188), and At2g32950 (NM_128855). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Quantification of Tissue-Specific Expression of Endogenous SPA Proteins and Their Regulation by Light. Supplemental Figure 2. Quantification of the Percentages of Prey SPA Proteins Bound to Baits. Supplemental Figure 3. Quantification of the Percentages of Full-Length SPA1 and Its Domain Deletions Bound to Baits. Supplemental Figure 4. The Truncated SPA2 Protein in spa2-1 Interacts with COP1 in Vivo. Supplemental Figure 5. Detection of a Slightly Fast-Mobility Form of flag-SPA4. Supplemental Figure 6. Quantification of the Unequal Efficiency of Immunoprecipitation of SPA1 and SPA4 Proteins. Supplemental Figure 7. Correlation between HY5 Level and the Severity of the spa Mutant Phenotype in Darkness. Supplemental Figure 8. HY5 Accumulates at a High Level in the spa Quadruple Mutant in Continuous White Light. Supplemental Figure 9. Regulation of COP1 Levels by SPA Proteins in Vivo. Supplemental Figure 10. Correlation between HY5 Level and COP1 Level in the spa Mutant Series.
