!~ABS~! In multicellular organisms, organogenesis requires a tight control of the balance between cell division and cell differentiation. Distinct signalling pathways that connect both cellular processes with developmental cues might have evolved to suit different developmental plans. Here, we identified and characterized a novel protein that interacts with pre‐replication complex (pre‐RC) subunits, designated Armadillo BTB Arabidopsis protein 1 (ABAP1). Overexpression of ABAP1 in plants limited mitotic DNA replication and decreased cell proliferation in leaves, whereas ABAP1 downregulation increased cell division rates. Activity of ABAP1 in transcription was supported by its association with the transcription factor AtTCP24. The ABAP1–AtTCP24 complex bound specifically to the promoters of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, expression levels of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b were reduced in ABAP1‐overexpressing plants and they were increased in plants with reduced levels of ABAP1. We propose that ABAP1 participates in a negative feedback loop regulating mitotic DNA replication during leaf development, either by repressing transcription of pre‐RC genes and possibly by regulating pre‐RC utilization through direct association with pre‐RC components.
!~RES~! In an attempt to identify protein complexes formed with Arabidopsis pre‐RC members, a search for pre‐RC‐interacting proteins was performed. Because AtORC1a harbours two domains involved in transcription regulation—BAH and PHD domains (CITATION), its complete open‐reading frame was assayed in a two‐hybrid screen against an Arabidopsis cDNA two‐hybrid library. Among the interacting proteins, a novel 737‐amino‐acid protein (At5g13060) of approximately 81 kDa was identified. It harbours eight predicted repeats of the β‐catenin‐type Armadillo domain (ARM repeats) in its N‐terminal region (amino acids 111–162, 164–212, 213–254, 256–296, 298–338, 340–380, 381–421 and 496–536) as well as a BTB/POZ domain (acronym for Broad complex/Tram‐Track/Bric‐a‐brac/Poxyvirus and zinc‐finger), located in the C terminus (amino acids 568–665) (FIG-REF). Therefore, the gene was designated ABAP1. Yeast two‐hybrid assays revealed that ABAP1 interaction with AtORC1a was mediated by the ARM repeats and by AtORC1a N terminus (amino acids 1–341) that contained the BAH and PHD domains (Supplementary Figure 1A). β‐Catenin ARM repeats are approximately 40‐amino‐acid‐long tandemly repeated sequence motifs and occur in various families of eukaryotic proteins involved in different cellular processes, such as cell–cell adhesion, nuclear import, cell signalling and transcriptional regulation (CITATION; CITATION). The BTB/POZ domain is usually found in leucine zipper proteins involved in transcriptional repression with a possible role as E3 ligase (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In agreement with the presence of a putative nuclear localization signal in ABAP1 N terminus (FIG-REF), confocal and fluorescent microscopy of Arabidopsis plants producing GFP::ABAP1 indicated that ABAP1 was exclusively located in the nucleus, homogeneously distributed or enriched in nuclear domains, and GFP::ABAP1 was absent in mitotic cells (FIG-REF). Analyses of endogenous levels of ABAP1 in synchronized Arabidopsis cell cultures indicated that it accumulated during G1 and/or early S phase (Supplementary Figure 2B–E). This result was corroborated by the studies on BY2 tobacco cells producing GFP::ABAP1 after treatment with inhibitors of cell cycle progression (Supplementary Figure 2A and Supplementary Video 1). A genomic search revealed the existence of at least 108 ARM domain and 80 BTB domain proteins in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION; CITATION). ABAP1 has the unique feature to harbour both Armadillo and BTB domains in its primary sequence. Arabidopsis has an ABAP1 homologue (At5g19330), characterized earlier as ARIA (ARM repeat protein interacting with ABF2) that shares 59% identity of the deduced amino‐acid sequence with ABAP1 and is involved in abscisic acid response through interaction and regulation of the transcription factor ABF2 (CITATION). Remarkably, no ABAP1 homologue was found in eukaryotes other than plants. In a yeast two‐hybrid assay against all other pre‐RC proteins, except MCM2–7, ABAP1 associated directly with AtORC1b, AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b (Supplementary Figure 1B). The interactions between ABAP1 and the pre‐RC components were confirmed in GST‐pulldown experiments with ABAP1–GST and radiolabelled AtORC1a35S, AtORC1b35S, AtCDT1a35S and AtCDT1b35S. The pre‐RC components bound to ABAP1 but not to GST alone (FIG-REF). The specificity of the interactions was demonstrated in an assay where ABAP1–GST did not bind to radiolabelled AtORC435S and bound to AtORC1a N terminus35S (FIG-REF). The formation of a triple complex between AtORC1a, ABAP1 and AtCDT1b was shown in a GST‐pulldown experiment with AtORC1a–GST, ABAP135S and AtCDT1b35S (FIG-REF). As AtCDT1b and AtORC1a did not bind directly, the presence of two radioactive bands indicated that ABAP1 can associate with pre‐RC subcomplexes or eventually with the full complex. The association between ABAP1 and pre‐RC was further confirmed in vivo by immunoprecipitations with the polyclonal anti‐ABAP1 antibody (Supplementary Figure 3) and protein extracts of Arabidopsis cell suspension LMM‐1 protoplasts that produced ABAP1, AtORC1a–GST, AtORC3–HA and AtCDT1a–FLAG (FIG-REF). In two‐hybrid assays with pre‐RC proteins, AtORC3 did not interact either with ABAP1 (Supplementary Figure 1B) or with the AtCDT1 homologues, but with all AtORCs, except AtORC1a and itself, possibly having a central function in maintaining ORC associations (CITATION). Similar interaction profile of AtORC3 with the other ORC proteins was reported by GST‐pulldown experiments (CITATION). In immunoprecipitation experiments with anti‐ABAP1, ABAP1 interacted in vivo with AtORC1a–GST, AtCDT1a–FLAG and also with AtORC3–HA (FIG-REF), suggesting that ABAP1 might associate with pre‐RC subcomplexes or eventually with the full complex in plant cells. Possibly, ABAP1 can form different complexes with different affinities to anti‐ABAP1, as the immunoprecipitations depleted the interacting AtORC3 and AtCDT1a, but not AtORC1a and ABAP1 itself. Studies on localization of ABAP1 expression in plant tissues showed that ABAP1 was weakly expressed in the emerging lateral roots (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 2B), being mainly expressed in the shoot apex, young leaves (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 2C) and flower buds (Supplementary Figure 4A and D), suggesting a possible function in these organs. Strong GUS expression was detected in developing leaves of 7‐ and 9‐day‐old seedlings, as observed for other pre‐RC components, such as PROLIFERA (AtMCM7), AtCDC6, AtCDT1 homologues and AtORC1b (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As the leaf grew, GUS expression decreased in a tip‐to‐base gradient (FIG-REF). In agreement, ABAP1 mRNA levels were higher in developing leaves during proliferation stage (9‐day‐old plants) and rapidly declined as observed in leaves of 13 till 21‐day‐old plants (FIG-REF). GUS expression in the meristemoid and young stomatal cells illustrates ABAP1 expression during stomatal cell differentiation (Supplementary Figure 4E). [[FIGURE]] To assess the function of ABAP1 during development, plants with increased or reduced expression levels of ABAP1 were characterized. Seventeen lines of Arabidopsis plants expressing higher levels of ABAP1 mRNA and protein under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S constitutive promoter were generated (here denoted as ABAP1OE). The increase in mRNA and protein levels varied among the different overexpressing lines and the developmental stage, ranging from 5‐ to 17‐fold and 2‐ to 5‐fold, respectively (Supplementary Figure 5A and B). A heterozygous enhancer trap line (ET13614, here denoted as ABAP1ET) with interference T‐DNA inserted into the first exon of ABAP1 gene (10 base pairs after the initial ATG) was analysed (Supplementary Figure 6). The plants showed an average of two‐ and five‐fold reduction in ABAP1 mRNA and protein levels, respectively (Supplementary Figure 6A and B). Homozygous plants could not be rescued in ABAP1ET, suggesting that the absence of ABAP1 causes a lethal phenotype (Supplementary Figure 6C). Comparative phenotype analyses between ABAP1 overexpressor lines (ABAP1OE) and control lines showed that plants with higher levels of ABAP1 developed normally, except that rosette area and leaf growth were moderately diminished during development (FIG-REF). Quite the opposite, reduction of ABAP1 levels in ABAP1ET plants caused an increase in the rosette and leaf growth (FIG-REF). Kinematics studies of developing leaves showed that cell division rates were higher in ABAP1ET plants and lower in ABAP1OE plants during early leaf development when compared with wild‐type controls (FIG-REF). Though leaf cell organization (data not shown) and cell sizes were similar to those of control plants, cell numbers were significantly reduced in ABAP1OE and increased in ABAP1ET plants (FIG-REF). Our data suggested that ABAP1 negatively regulated overall cell divisions in leaves, differing from the pre‐RC subunits AtCDT1 and AtCDC6 that could specifically affect stomata formation (CITATION). An effect of ABAP1 levels in early leaf development is consistent with its high expression levels in shoot meristem and young leaves. [[FIGURE]] As ABAP1 interacted with members of the pre‐RC and accumulated at G1 and early S phase of the cell cycle, the cell proliferation phenotypes observed in ABAP1OE and ABAP1ET leaves could be at least partly triggered by a misregulation of the DNA replication machinery. Cell proliferation assays with [3H]thymidine in ABAP1OE and ABAP1ET seedlings showed that the DNA replication levels were significantly lower in ABAP1OE plants than those in the wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). In contrast, ABAP1ET seedlings showed higher levels of DNA replication than wild type (FIG-REF). A direct role of ABAP1 in pre‐RC assembly and association with chromatin was investigated by measuring MCM loading onto chromatin, the hallmark step in the formation of the pre‐RC. Cells were separated into cytoplasmic, nucleus‐soluble and chromatin‐enriched fractions and levels of MCM7 (PROLIFERA) and ABAP1 were assayed by immunoblot analysis (FIG-REF). PROLIFERA association with chromatin was lower in 6‐day‐old ABAP1OE plants than in wild‐type plants, and the excess of ABAP1 was mostly found as a soluble nuclear protein. When ABAP1 levels were reduced in ABAP1ET, higher levels of PROLIFERA were found loaded onto chromatin. Ploidy levels in developing leaves of ABAP1OE plants were similar as control, suggesting that ABAP1 might have a function in mitotic replication but not in endocycles (Supplementary Figure 7). Altogether, the data on the characterization of plants with modified levels of ABAP1 indicated that ABAP1 exert a negative role in cell proliferation in leaves, possibly by inhibiting mitotic DNA replication. To unravel protein complexes in which ABAP1 takes part, a yeast two‐hybrid screen under high stringency selection conditions was performed with an Arabidopsis cDNA library as a bait. Several transcription factors, belonging to the NAC, AP2 and TCP families (unpublished results) were identified. One of the ABAP1‐associated transcription factors was AtTCP24 (At1g30210) that belongs to the class‐II TCP transcription factor family (CITATION), the members of which negatively regulate plant cell proliferation and leaf morphogenesis (CITATION; CITATION). To address a possible cooperation of ABAP1 and AtTCP24 in the control of gene transcription, the association between both proteins was characterized. The AtTCP24–ABAP1 interaction was confirmed in a GST‐pulldown assay with AtTCP24–GST and radiolabelled ABAP135S. ABAP1 bound to AtTCP24–GST but not to GST alone (FIG-REF). In vivo interaction was observed in immunoprecipitation experiments of protein extracts of Arabidopsis cell suspension LMM‐1 protoplasts that produced ABAP1 and AtTCP24–FLAG, with the anti‐ABAP1 antibody (FIG-REF). The ability of the ABAP1–AtTCP24 heterodimer to recognize the consensus sequence for class‐II TCP (TGGGCC/T) (CITATION) was confirmed in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) (Supplementary Figure 8). The data demonstrated that the association of ABAP1 with AtTCP24 did not affect the DNA‐binding properties of the latter and that ABAP1 could participate in mechanisms of transcriptional regulation. Other class‐II TCP members (AtTCP3, AtTCP5, AtTCP13 and AtTCP17) did not interact with ABAP1 in yeast two‐hybrid assays (Supplementary Figure 9A), indicating some specificity in the ABAP1 association with class‐II TCP family. [[FIGURE]] To investigate a possible role of ABAP1 in the control of gene expression, putative target genes regulated by ABAP1–AtTCP24 complex were examined by searching for class‐II TCP‐interacting motifs in the promoters of Arabidopsis genes. Surprisingly, four boxes for class‐II TCP were found in the 500 bp upstream of the initial methionine of the AtCDT1a promoter region, making it a good candidate for AtTCP24‐mediated expression. One class‐II TCP box was also found in the AtCDT1b promoter. In EMSA performed with the TCP consensus motif of AtCDT1a (ATGGGCCT, −215 to −223) and its homologue AtCDT1b (ATGGGCCC, position −129 to −137), both AtTCP24 and AtTCP24–ABAP1 were associated with the wild type (FIG-REF, lanes 1, 5, 10 and 14) but not with the mutated probes (FIG-REF, lanes 4, 9, 13 and 18). ABAP1 alone was associated with neither of the probes (FIG-REF, lanes 6 and 15). The presence of AtTCP24–GST and ABAP1 in the protein–DNA complex was confirmed by a supershift assay with anti‐ABAP1 and anti‐GST antibodies (FIG-REF, lanes 3, 7, 8, 12, 16 and 17). The data indicate that both AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b expression might be regulated by ABAP1–AtTCP24 complex. To test this hypothesis, we first confirmed that ABAP1 associates with AtCDT1 promoters in vivo in chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments with anti‐ABAP1 antibody (FIG-REF). The results revealed that ABAP1 was associated with regions of the AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b promoters harbouring the TCP consensus motif. This interaction was site‐specific as ABAP1 was not detected in a 350‐bp region inside the AtCDT1a‐coding region. In addition, AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b mRNA levels were analysed in 6‐day‐old ABAP1OE and ABAP1ET versus wild‐type seedlings by real‐time PCR (FIG-REF). Both genes were downregulated in plants with higher levels of ABAP1 mRNA and protein (FIG-REF) and they were upregulated in plants where ABAP1 mRNA and protein levels were diminished (FIG-REF). These data suggest a direct effect of ABAP1 on AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b expression. These results indicate that ABAP1 might exert a function together with transcription factors to regulate cell division in plants. Various class‐II TCP genes have been shown to negatively regulate cell proliferation in leaves (CITATION; CITATION); nevertheless, their mechanism of action is still not understood. Because cell division rates were lower in ABAP1OE plants and higher in ABAP1ET plants, one hypothesis is that, during leaf development, ABAP1 might collaborate with AtTCP24 in mediating repression of genes that promote cell proliferation, such as AtCDT1. If so, downregulation of AtCDT1 could be one of the pathways used by class‐II TCP genes to negatively regulate cell division. To test this hypothesis, plants overexpressing AtTCP24 (AtTCP24OE) were generated (LM Cabral, unpublished data). Remarkably, these plants exhibited a phenotype similar to that of ABAP1OE plants showing reduced rosette areas and smaller leaves with normal cell sizes but fewer cells (Supplementary Figure 9B–D), pointing to an inhibition of cell proliferation in AtTCP24OE leaves. Gene expression analyses of 9‐day‐old AtTCP24OE seedlings with real‐time RT–PCR showed that AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b levels were downregulated in AtTCP24OE plants (Supplementary Figure 9E). These data are consistent with ABAP1 and AtTCP24 functioning together during leaf development, to negatively regulate AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b expression levels. To test whether ABAP1 could have a dual function in mechanisms controlling DNA replication and transcription, or whether it executes separate functions in these complexes, we addressed if the ABAP1–AtTCP24 complex could associate with pre‐RC members in plants. The formation of a triple complex between AtORC1a, ABAP1 and AtTCP24 was shown in vitro in a GST‐pulldown experiment with AtORC1a–GST, ABAP135S and AtTCP2435S (FIG-REF). A triple complex between ABAP1, AtTCP24 and AtCDT1b was also observed in a GST‐pulldown experiment with AtTCP24–GST, ABAP135S and AtCDT1b35S (FIG-REF). As AtTCP24 did not bind directly to AtORC1a or AtCDT1b (FIG-REF, lane 5 and FIG-REF, lane 1), the presence of two radioactive bands indicated that ABAP1 might work as a bridge connecting pre‐RC proteins and AtTCP24 in a complex. The ability of ABAP1 to bind both AtTCP24 and AtORC1a concomitantly was further tested in a GST‐pulldown competition assay, where increasing amounts of AtORC1a–GST were mixed with ABAP1–GST and AtTCP2435S (FIG-REF). There were no differences in binding intensity between ABAP1 and AtTCP24 in the absence or presence of either 2.5, 10 and 50 μg of AtORC1a–GST, suggesting that there was no competition between AtORC1a and AtTCP24 for ABAP1‐binding sites. The association of ABAP1 with AtTCP24 and pre‐RC proteins in the same complex in vivo was revealed in a GST‐pulldown experiment with protein extracts from protoplasts transformed with AtORC1a–GST, AtTCP24‐CBP, AtCDT1a–FLAG and AtORC3–HA (FIG-REF, lane 4). The specificity of the interactions was demonstrated in an assay where ABAP1, AtORC1a–GST, AtTCP24–CDB, AtCDT1a–FLAG and AtORC3–HA were not rescued when an excess of free GST was added prior to column purification (FIG-REF, lane 2). In addition, an EMSA supershift assay revealed that the triple complex formed by AtTCP24, ABAP1 and AtORC1a was still able to recognize and bind to the TCP consensus motif of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b promoters (FIG-REF). Neither AtORC1a alone nor AtORC1a–ABAP1 was associated with AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b probes (data not shown). The triple complex formed by AtORC1a, AtTCP24 and ABAP1 interacted with the wild type but not with the mutated probes of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b promoters, as the migration of the probes in the gel was delayed, indicating the presence of the triple complex interacting with the DNA probes (FIG-REF, lanes 1 and 7). The presence of ABAP1 in the complex was confirmed by an extra shift in the gel when anti‐ABAP1 antibody was added (FIG-REF, lanes 5 and 11). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Expression analyses using real‐time PCR, transgenic plants production, GUS activity assay and subcellular localization in Arabidopsis are described in Supplementary data. Transgenic lines were identified by selection in 50 mg/l kanamycin in germination medium (for proABAP1::GUS and GFP::ABAP1) or by enhanced green fluorescence (for ABAP1OE and AtTCP24OE plants). At least, 10 transgenic lines were analysed for each construct. ABAP1ET belongs to the Cold Spring Harbor Enhancer trap bank (seed code ET13614). Lines were selected in 50 mg/l kanamycin in germination medium. Thirty plant genotypes were determined by PCR with specific primers for Enhancer Trap DS element and for ABAP1. Primers ABAP1 5 and ABAP1 3, DS5‐4 and ABAP1 3 were used for WT and DS insertion alleles, respectively (Suplementary data—constructs). For details on phenotypic analysis of ABAP1OE and ABAP1ET plant, see Supplementary data. Yeast two‐hybrid screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library was carried out according to CITATION. For details, see Supplementary data. ABAP1–GST, AtTPC24–GST and AtORC1a–GST were produced in cells of Escherichia coli strain BL21 (Supplementary data). In vitro transcription and translation of 35S‐methionine (GE Healthcare) was performed using the TNT Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation Systems (Promega) according to the supplier's instructions. GST‐pulldown analyses were carried out according to CITATION. Protoplast transformation, immunoprecipitation and protein gel blots were carried out by standard techniques, according to protocols described in the Supplementary data. EMSAs were performed as described earlier (CITATION) with modifications. For details, see Supplementary data. Wild‐type, ABAP1OE and ABAP1ET plants were collected at 6 days after sowing and submitted to lysis in liquid nitrogen. Plant cell lysates and chromatin fractionation were performed as described by CITATION, with minor adaptations. For details, see Supplementary data. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
