!~ABS~! This article presents evidence that DELLA repression of gibberellin (GA) signaling is relieved both by proteolysis-dependent and -independent pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana. DELLA proteins are negative regulators of GA responses, including seed germination, stem elongation, and fertility. GA stimulates GA responses by causing DELLA repressor degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. DELLA degradation requires GA biosynthesis, three functionally redundant GA receptors GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1a, b, and c), and the SLEEPY1 (SLY1) F-box subunit of an SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase. The sly1 mutants accumulate more DELLA proteins but display less severe dwarf and germination phenotypes than the GA biosynthesis mutant ga1-3 or the gid1abc triple mutant. Interestingly, GID1 overexpression rescued the sly1 dwarf and infertility phenotypes without decreasing the accumulation of the DELLA protein REPRESSOR OF ga1-3. GID1 rescue of sly1 mutants was dependent on the level of GID1 protein, GA, and the presence of a functional DELLA motif. Since DELLA shows increasing interaction with GID1 with increasing GA levels, it appears that GA-bound GID1 can block DELLA repressor activity by direct protein–protein interaction with the DELLA domain. Thus, a SLY1-independent mechanism for GA signaling may function without DELLA degradation.
!~RES~! To explore the role of the GID1 genes in Arabidopsis GA signaling, we introduced three chimeric constructs each containing an N-terminal HA fusion of one of three GID1 genes (GID1a, GIDb, or GID1c) under control of the 35S CaMV promoter into several Arabidopsis backgrounds including wild-type Landsberg erecta (Ler), ga1-3, sly1-10, sly1-2, rga-Δ17 (heterozygous; +/−), and gai-1 (homozygous; −/−) (Figure 1 ; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Figure 1A shows 36-d-old plants grown with or without a 10 μM GA4 treatment. GID1 gene overexpression suppressed the sly1-10 plant height and fertility defects. GID1b-overexpression (GID1b-OE) had the strongest effect on plant height causing some increase in wild-type Ler height and restoration of the sly1-10 mutant to a final height similar to the wild type (see Supplemental Table 1 online). However, plant growth in sly1-10 GIDb-OE appeared somewhat slower than in the wild type. By contrast, GID1a- and GID1c-overexpression (GID1a-OE and GID1c-OE) resulted in plants slightly taller than the vector-only and untransformed sly1-10 controls (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental Table 1 online). Similar results were observed when the GID1 overexpression (GID1-OE) constructs were introduced into the more severe sly1-2 mutant (Figure 1A). Final plant height appeared to be independent of the sly1 allele severity (see Supplemental Table 1 online). [[FIGURE]] GA also stimulates reproductive development, transition to flowering, and fertility in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). To explore the effect of GID1-OE on fertility, we determined the number of seeds per silique for each line (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The infertility of sly1-2 and sly1-10 was better suppressed by transformation with the GID1c-OE construct than by transformation with GID1a-OE or GID1b-OE (see Supplemental Table 2 online). GA treatment of sly1 transformants had no effect on plant height and fertility (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Tables 1 and 2 online), suggesting that endogenous GA levels were not a limiting factor in determining the degree of sly1 phenotype restoration. To determine whether GID1-OE can suppress the stem elongation and fertility phenotypes of a GA biosynthesis mutant, the same constructs were introduced into the ga1-3 mutant. None of the GID1-OE constructs rescued plant height or fertility in the absence of GA, suggesting that endogenous GA is necessary (Figure 1A). The GA-treated ga1-3 GID1b-OE lines were the tallest, suggesting that the GID1b-OE lines are more GA sensitive (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). To assess this, we examined the effect of increasing GA concentrations on seedling leaf area and root elongation. Seeds were incubated in GA4 to stimulate seed germination, washed, and transferred to medium containing increasing concentrations of GA4. After 10 d of incubation, seedling leaf area and root length were determined. The GID1b-OE lines appeared to have larger leaf area and longer primary root, suggesting that these lines are more GA sensitive (Figure 2 ; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). GID1b-OE lines also had larger leaves on media containing no hormone, possibly due to prolonged response to the GA treatment used to stimulate seed germination. [[FIGURE]] GA stimulates plant growth by triggering the disappearance of RGA protein via the action of GID1, SCFSLY1, and the 26S proteasome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on this, we hypothesized that GID1 overexpression may stimulate plant growth in the wild-type Ler, sly1, and ga1-3 backgrounds by stimulating DELLA degradation. Protein blot analysis was used to examine the accumulation of DELLA RGA and HA:GID1 protein in the wild type, sly1, and ga1-3 (Figure 1B). GID1-OE caused no change in RGA protein accumulation in the ga1-3 mutant (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). GID1-OE in wild-type Ler resulted in lower RGA protein levels and increased final plant height compared with the untransformed control (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). This is consistent with previously published results showing that GID1a-OE caused decreased accumulation of RGA (CITATION). By contrast, RGA protein destruction was blocked by the sly1-10 and sly1-2 mutations. GID1 overexpression and increased plant height did not correlate with decreased RGA protein accumulation (Figure 1B). Thus, GID1 overexpression in the sly1 mutants restored plant height without altering the RGA protein levels. Whereas the final plant height of sly1 GID1-OE lines was not strongly correlated with the level of HA:GID1 accumulation (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Table 1 online), examination of 10-d-old seedlings revealed that higher levels of HA:GID1b accumulation correlated with more rapid hypocotyl and root elongation (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). This suggests that GID1 can stimulate GA signaling in sly1 mutants without DELLA proteolysis and that the rate of stem elongation is not determined by the absolute DELLA protein level but by the amount of GID1 accumulation. There are two possible explanations for this. GID1 overexpression may be able to deactivate the DELLA/RGA repression of stem elongation without proteolysis, or it may stimulate stem elongation via a DELLA-independent mechanism. If the latter model is true, we would expect GID1 overexpression to suppress the dwarf phenotype of DELLA motif deletion mutants, gai-1 and rga-Δ17. We introduced the three GID1-OE constructs into the gai-1 (−/−) and rga-Δ17 (+/−) backgrounds, two mutants missing the 17–amino acid DELLA motif known to be essential for DELLA protein interaction with the GID1 GA receptor (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Transformants carrying the GID1-OE constructs in these backgrounds showed no change in plant height (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 6 online) and no change in DELLA RGA protein levels (Figure 1B). This suggests that GID1 must bind to DELLA protein to stimulate stem elongation, ruling out a DELLA-independent mechanism. Previous work has shown that the gai-1 and rga-Δ17 mutant proteins are resistant to GA-induced degradation and fail to interact with GID1 in the presence of GA, suggesting that the resulting dwarf phenotype is due to inability to undergo GID1/GA-induced protein destruction or deactivation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although sly1 mutants accumulate higher levels of DELLA protein than do ga1-3 or the gid1a gid1b gid1c triple mutant, sly1 mutants are taller and show less severe germination and fertility phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We previously hypothesized that the intermediate sly1 phenotypes result from DELLA accumulation in a less active form (CITATION). The GID1 overexpression data suggest that the less active DELLA form may result from interaction with GID1-GA. If so, introduction of the DELLA deletion mutations rga-Δ17 or gai-1 into the sly1 mutant background should block DELLA interaction with GID1 leading to a more severe dwarf phenotype. Indeed, sly1-10 rga-Δ17 (+/−) and sly1-10 gai-1 (−/−) double mutants were completely infertile and showed a more extreme dwarf phenotype than the sly1-10, rga-Δ17 (+/−), and gai-1 (−/−) single mutants (Figures 3A and 3B ). This additive effect indicates that the functional DELLA motif is required for the sly1 intermediate fertility and plant height phenotype and suggests that the GID1-GA-DELLA protein complex that accumulates in the sly1 mutant is less effective at repressing stem elongation than is unbound DELLA protein. [[FIGURE]] Next, the effect of the DELLA motif deletion in gai-1 on protein accumulation in the sly1-10 mutant background was examined. Protein blot analysis of sly1-10, sly1-10 gai-1 (−/−), and gai-1 (−/−) mutants showed that the level of GAI protein accumulation was lower in the sly1-10 gai-1 and gai-1 mutant than in the sly1-10 single mutant (Figure 3C). By contrast, the RGA protein level in sly1-10 gai-1 was equivalent to the sly1-10 mutant. Thus, it appears that GAI regulates its own protein accumulation but not RGA protein accumulation. This suggests that the increased dwarfism and decreased gai-1 protein accumulation in sly1-10 gai-1 compared with the sly1-10 single mutant may be due in part to a failure of the gai-1 protein to interact with GID1. The fact that sly1 rescue by GID1 overexpression requires GA and a functional DELLA motif suggested that GID1 inactivates DELLA protein by direct protein interaction. We next confirmed the GA-dependent interaction of DELLA GAI and RGA with the GID1 receptor. Previously published yeast two-hybrid results indicated that GAI shows GA-dependent interaction with the three GID1 proteins (CITATION). In an in vitro GST-GID1 pull-down assay, GST-GID1a and GST-GID1b showed interaction with GAI only in the presence of GA, whereas GST-GID1c showed some interaction in the absence of GA and increased interaction in the presence of GA (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Previously published results showed GA-dependent GST-GID1 pull-down of DELLA RGA (CITATION). Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) of RGA using FLAG:GID1b was used to confirm that RGA shows increasing interaction with FLAG:GID1b with increasing concentrations of GA3 in vivo (Figure 4 ). [[FIGURE]] The GA receptor GID1 requires GA to efficiently bind DELLA proteins. If the intermediate plant height and fertility phenotypes of sly1 mutants result from DELLA interaction with GID1-GA, we expect the rescue of sly1 mutants by GID1 overexpression to require GA. Treatment of pregerminated sly1 GID1-OE seedlings with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (PAC) blocked the growth restoration from GID1a, GID1b, and GID1c overexpression in sly1 seedlings (Figure 5A ; see Supplemental Figure 8 online). This confirms that growth stimulation by GID1 overexpression requires GA. PAC treatment also suppressed the growth of the wild type and ga1-3 (Figure 5A). PAC treatment probably slightly retards the growth of ga1-3 due to the fact that some GA biosynthesis occurs in ga1-3 (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] PAC treatment caused the expected increase in RGA protein accumulation in GA-treated wild type (Figure 5B). This is likely due to reduced GA-dependent proteolysis of RGA protein. PAC treatment caused no significant change in RGA protein levels in the gid1a gid1b gid1c triple mutant. By contrast, PAC treatment caused a decrease in RGA and GAI protein accumulation in sly1-10, sly1-2, and in sly1 mutants transformed with the GID1-OE constructs. Following PAC treatment of sly1 mutants, the RGA protein accumulation decreased to a level similar to that seen in PAC-treated wild type and ga1-3. These results raise two interesting notions. First, GA is necessary for GID1-OE suppression of the GA-insensitive sly1 dwarf phenotype. Second, the high level of RGA protein accumulation in sly1 mutants requires GA synthesis. To confirm that the decrease in DELLA accumulation was not due to nonspecific effects of PAC, the accumulation of DELLA RGA was examined over a time course of GA treatment in a ga1-3 sly1-10 double mutant. The dwarf phenotype of ga1-3 sly1-10 is more severe than that of sly1-10 and is rescued by GA treatment (Figure 6A ). Consistent with the PAC experiment, less DELLA RGA protein was seen in the ga1-3 sly1-10 double mutant than in the sly1-10 mutant in the absence of GA (Figure 6B). Surprisingly, GA treatment of the ga1-3 sly1-10 double mutant resulted in a gradual increase in DELLA RGA protein accumulation (Figure 6B) associated with a reproducible ∼50% increase in RGA mRNA level (Figure 6C). Thus, the severity of the dwarf phenotype does not directly correlate with the level of DELLA RGA protein accumulation in the sly1-10 background, suggesting that GID1-GA can partly inactivate DELLA RGA protein repression of stem elongation in the sly1 mutant background, even when DELLA RGA protein levels are increasing. [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the effect of GID1 overexpression on GA induction of RGA protein accumulation over a time course in PAC-treated sly1-2 mutant and sly1-2 GID-OE seedlings. Pregerminated seedlings were grown in the presence of PAC and then treated with 100 μM GA3. Time points were taken for protein blot and quantitative RT-PCR analysis of RGA protein and RGA mRNA accumulation, respectively. All GA-treated lines showed a gradual increase in RGA protein levels reaching a maximum that resembled control seedlings that were not treated with PAC (Figure 7A ). This increase was associated with a small but significant increase in RGA mRNA transcript level (Figure 7B), suggesting that this increase is due at least in part to a gradual induction of RGA transcription by GA. PAC treatment caused a decrease in RGA mRNA levels both in sly1-2 and in wild-type Ler (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). It appeared that GID1 overexpression significantly accelerated RGA mRNA and protein accumulation in response to GA treatment (Figure 7). Interestingly, GID1 overexpression results in a higher level of RGA mRNA accumulation associated with a more rapid increase in RGA protein accumulation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana Ler, sly1-10, sly1-2, gai-1, rga-Δ17, ga1-3, gai-t6, ga1-3 rga-t2, and transformants in which each GID1 gene is overexpressed were used in this study (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). All genotypes are in the Ler background. The rga-Δ17 line contains a wild-type copy of RGA on the chromosome and a transgene containing a 17–amino acid deletion of the DELLA motif as described by CITATION. Germination of ga1-3 seeds was stimulated by first imbibing in 100 μM GA4 for 3 d at 4°C and then washing five times with sterile water. Seeds of Ler, sly1-10, sly1-2, gai-1, and rga-Δ17 backgrounds were sterilized and imbibed in sterile water for 3 d at 4°C. After the stratification, all seeds were transferred to the 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (Sigma-Aldrich)/0.8% agar (MS-agar), and they were incubated at 22°C for 10 to 14 d. Seedlings were transferred to soil and grown at 22°C under fluorescent light (16 h day; CITATION) for growth rate, and fertility was compared. To determine the effect of GA treatment on the plant growth, plants grown in soil were sprayed every 3 d with 10 μM GA4. In-frame fusions of the GID1a, GID1b, and GID1c to the hemagglutinin (HA) epitope tag were constructed under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. The DNA sequence corresponding to three repetitions of the HA epitope was amplified using HA-F and HA-3R primers (see Supplemental Table 3 online). The PCR fragment was phosphorylated with T4 polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas) and then blunt-ligated into the EcoRV site of pBluescript II KS− vector. This vector was named HA/pBluescript. PCR fragments containing the full-length coding region of the GID1a, GID1b, and GID1c genes were obtained by RT-PCR using gene-specific primer pairs (CITATION; see Supplemental Table 3 online) and then directly cloned as a blunt-end fragment into HA/pBluescript at the SmaI site to obtain HA-GID1a-c/pBluescript vectors. To make the HA-only control and HA:GID1 constructs, the HindIII-SacI fragment from the HA/pBluescript and HA:GID1a-c/pBluescript plasmids were excised and cloned into the T-DNA binary vector pTA27 that had been digested with HindIII and SacI. pTA27 contains the 35S promoter and nos terminator from pBI101H (CITATION) inserted as an EcoRI-HindIII fragment into EcoRI-HindIII–digested pGPTV-HPT (CITATION) thereby replacing the GUS gene. The in-frame N-terminal fusion of GID1b to the FLAG epitope was constructed by transferring the GID1b gene from pENTR1A (Invitrogen) to pEarleyGate202 (ABRC) using the Gateway LR Clonase enzyme (Invitrogen). The constructs were then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 by the freeze-thaw method (CITATION). Constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis Ler, ga1-3, sly1-2, sly1-10, gai-1, and rga-Δ17 by the flower dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on MS-agar plates containing hygromycin (15 to 20 mg/L). Four to eight independent transformants were isolated in each background. Transformants showing similar levels of HA:GID1 protein accumulation were selected for further studies (Figure 1). The construction of the GST:GID1 vectors was previously described (CITATION). To examine GA sensitivity, seeds of the ga1-3 mutant and of ga1-3 GID1-OE lines were imbibed at 4°C for 3 d in the presence of 10 μM GA4, washed five times with sterile water, then transferred to the MS-agar plates containing 0, 10−10 M, 10−9 M, and 10−8 M GA4. Leaf area and root length were determined after 10 d of growth at 22°C under constant light. Experiments were conducted to examine the effect of the GA biosynthesis inhibitor PAC on seedling growth and DELLA RGA protein accumulation. Seeds of Ler, sly1-10, and sly1-2 and corresponding transformants carrying the GID1-OE constructs were first germinated under MS-agar plates as described above. Note that ga1-3 seeds were pretreated with GA4 to stimulate germination. Ten-day-old seedlings were transferred to fresh MS-agar plates including 1 μM PAC, followed by further incubation for 12 d. For time-course experiments, the PAC-treated plants were first prepared as described above and treated with 100 μM GA3, and time points (0, 2, 9, 15, 24, 72, and 120 h) were taken for quantitative RT-PCR and protein blot analyses. Protein blot analysis was used to examine DELLA RGA and GAI protein accumulation in 10- to 14-d-old seedlings. Transgenic homozygous T3 seeds were germinated under hygromycin selection (15 mg/L) and imbibed for 3 d at 4°C, followed by incubation at 22°C. Total plant protein was extracted as described (CITATION). Forty micrograms of protein was separated on an SDS-PAGE and transferred onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. The protein concentration was determined using the Bio-Rad protein assay and even loading confirmed by Ponceau staining. For RGA protein detection in the wild-type background, 150 μg of protein was loaded. Protein detection was performed using an enhanced chemiluminescence system (ECL; GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer's protocol. RGA and GAI proteins were detected using the polyclonal RGA (1:10,000; CITATION), GAI (1:1000; CITATION), and CULLIN (1:10,000; CITATION) as the primary antibodies. HA:GID1 fusion proteins were detected using anti-HA (1:5000; Immunology Consultants Laboratory.). The anti-rabbit IgG-horseradish peroxidase (GE Healthcare) was used as a secondary antibody (1:150,000). RGA mRNA accumulation was analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR using total RNA extracted from GA-treated seedling tissues as indicated in Figures 6 and 7⇑ using an RNA easy kit (Qiagen). Genomic DNA contamination was removed using the DNA-Free RNA kit (ZYMO Research). cDNA was generated from 1 μg total RNA using a first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (GE Healthcare). cDNA was then used as a template for quantitative PCR with specific primers (see Supplemental Table 3 online; CITATION, CITATION). The quantitative PCR experiments were performed using a Roche LightCycler with LightCycler FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I kit. PCR conditions consisted of 10 min of denaturation at 95°C, followed by 45 cycles of 10 s denaturation at 95°C, 5 s annealing at 60°C, and 10 s extension at 72°C. Transcript levels were analyzed using LightCycler Software version 3.5 to determine RGA mRNA levels relative to the GAPC control mRNA as by CITATION. The sly1-10 mutant was transformed with a GID1b N-terminal fusion to the FLAG epitope expressed on the constitutive 35S promoter (FLAG:GID1b). The fusion appeared to be functional since transformation of sly1-10 with 35S:FLAG:GID1b resulted in a rescue of dwarfism similar to than seen with 35:HA:GID1b (Figure 1). The 10-d-old sly1-10 FLAG:GID1b seedlings were ground in liquid N2 and suspended in buffer C (20 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton, and 1× complete proteinase inhibitor [Roche]). The protein extract was centrifuged at 21,000g for 15 min, and 1 mg of supernatant was incubated with FLAG M2 agarose (Sigma-Aldrich) for 12 h at 4°C in the presence of ethanol (mock), 1 μM GA3, and 100 μM GA3. The co-IP agarose was washed three times with buffer C, 6× sample buffer was added, and the sample was boiled for 5 min prior to protein blot analysis. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: SLY1 (At4g24210), RGA (At2g01570), GAI (At1g14920), GID1a (At3g05120), GID1b (At3g63010), GID1c (At5g27320). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Schematic Diagram of the Chimeric HA:GID1 Constructs. Supplemental Figure 2. The HA Control Construct Had No Effect on Growth and Development. Supplemental Figure 3. ga1-3 Plants Used for Measurements Shown in Figure 2 Show Enhanced GA Sensitivity when Transformed with GID1-OE Constructs. Supplemental Figure 4. RGA Protein Accumulation after GA Treatment in ga1-3 GID1-OE Plants. Supplemental Figure 5. HA:GID1b Levels Correlate with sly1-10 Seedling Growth. Supplemental Figure 6. HA:GID1 Constructs Did Not Suppress Growth Defects of the gai-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 7. GST-GID1 Pull-Down Assay Shows Interaction with DELLA GAI Protein. Supplemental Figure 8. The GA Biosynthesis Inhibitor PAC Blocks Rescue of sly1-10 by GID1 Overexpression. Supplemental Figure 9. Comparison of the Level of RGA mRNA Accumulation in Wild-Type Ler, ga1-3, sly1-2, and gid1 Mutants. Supplemental Table 1. Final Plant Height in GID1-OE Lines. Supplemental Table 2. Fertility in GID1-OE. Supplemental Table 3. Primer Sequences Used for This Study.
