!~ABS~! Nitrate is an essential nutrient, and is involved in many adaptive responses of plants, such as localized proliferation of roots, flowering or stomatal movements. How such nitrate-specific mechanisms are regulated at the molecular level is poorly understood. Although the Arabidopsis ANR1 transcription factor appears to control stimulation of lateral root elongation in response to nitrate, no regulators of nitrate assimilation have so far been identified in higher plants. Legume-specific symbiotic nitrogen fixation is under the control of the putative transcription factor, NIN, in Lotus japonicus. Recently, the algal homologue NIT2 was found to regulate nitrate assimilation. Here we report that Arabidopsis thaliana NIN-like protein 7 (NLP7) knockout mutants constitutively show several features of nitrogen-starved plants, and that they are tolerant to drought stress. We show that nlp7 mutants are impaired in transduction of the nitrate signal, and that the NLP7 expression pattern is consistent with a function of NLP7 in the sensing of nitrogen. Translational fusions with GFP showed a nuclear localization for the NLP7 putative transcription factor. We propose NLP7 as an important element of the nitrate signal transduction pathway and as a new regulatory protein specific for nitrogen assimilation in non-nodulating plants.
!~RES~! To investigate the function of the AtNLP proteins, a systematic screen of T-DNA insertion mutants for most genes of the AtNLP family was undertaken. Preliminary studies revealed a visible phenotype for two homozygous allelic mutants of the NLP7 gene (At4g24020), nlp7-1 and nlp7-2 (Figure 1a). We therefore focused on the NLP7 gene, and further investigated the physiological impact of loss of function of NLP7. No NLP7 mRNA and only 6% of the wild-type NLP7 mRNA level were found in nlp7-1 and nlp7-2, respectively (Figure 1b). The nlp7 mutants developed a smaller rosette compared to the wild-type, especially when grown on full nutrient supply (Figure 1c), but the root fresh weight was not modified (data not shown). As a consequence, the shoot to root fresh weight ratio (S/R ratio), an important marker for nutrient starvation (CITATION), was lower for the nlp7 mutants grown hydroponically on 6 mm nitrate (Figure 1d). Moreover, mutants showed delayed growth and flowering when grown in the greenhouse (data not shown and Figure 1e). In addition, nlp7 mutants grown on nutrient-rich agar plates developed a longer primary root and had a higher lateral root density compared to wild-type (Figure 1f,g), whereas the root architecture was identical for wild-type and mutant plants grown on N-, P- or S-free agar plates (Figure 1f,g and Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] The allelic mutant nlp7-2 has a slightly less severe phenotype than nlp7-1. The T-DNA insertion in nlp7-2 is in the last exon of the NLP7 gene (Figure 1a), which may give rise to a small amount of protein, truncated only by the last few amino acids, including the PB1 protein-binding site. We have isolated a third knockout mutant, nlp7-3, which has a T-DNA insertion in the first intron and shows the same severe phenotype as nlp7-1 mutant (Figure S2). To identify which processes are deregulated in nlp7 mutants, we performed transcriptome analyses on nlp7-1 and wild-type plants grown hydroponically under low-N conditions (0.2 mm nitrate). Growth of wild-type plants is slightly limited under these conditions, but no N starvation arises as the nutrient solution is replaced regularly (CITATION). Developmental defects of the nlp7-1 mutant were less pronounced under these conditions (Figure 1c,d), which allowed us to study changes in gene expression directly related to the mutation. Around 500 genes were differentially expressed in the mutant compared to the wild-type under these conditions, and most of them were downregulated in the mutant (data not shown). However, only 145 genes had more than a twofold modified expression, and 121 of them were specifically deregulated in the roots of the mutant (Figure S3). Comparing these data to the transcriptome data for wild-type plants starved for nitrogen (CATdb, http://urgv.evry.inra.fr/CATdb/; project GNP3-B4), it was obvious that many marker genes for N starvation had modified expression in nlp7-1 roots (Figure 2). The left panel of Figure 2 shows the expression level of 12 selected genes that are downregulated by N starvation in wild-type plants. These genes also show lower expression in roots of the mutant, compared to the wild-type, even in the presence of N. Similarly, eight genes that are upregulated by N starvation in the wild-type are upregulated even in the presence of N in the nlp7-1 mutant. Marker genes for sulphate and phosphate starvation that are either up- or downregulated in wild-type plants (data from CITATION and CITATION, respectively) (Figure 2, right panel) showed no obvious expression changes relative to wild-type plants in the nlp7-1 mutant. The fact that only expression of marker genes for N starvation was modified in the nlp7-1 mutant reinforced our hypothesis that the mutant phenotype is a constitutive response to N starvation. However, the total gene expression pattern of the mutant did not match perfectly the pattern of a wild-type N-starved plant. Although 11 of the 16 genes that are induced in nlp7-1 roots are also induced by N starvation in the wild-type, only 16% of the genes repressed in the roots of the mutants are also repressed by N starvation. This indicates that only specific parts of the response to N starvation are modified in the nlp7 mutants. [[FIGURE]] We analyzed nitrate assimilation and the nitrate responsiveness of nlp7 mutants in order to determine the origin of the mutant’s N-starved-like phenotype. Nitrate content was increased in the mutants, but high-affinity nitrate uptake and total amino acid content were slightly lower (Table 1 and Figure S4a). However, no changes occurred in the pattern of individual amino acids (Table S1). These results led us to investigate the enzymatic activity of key enzymes of the nitrate assimilation pathway. The nitrate reductase and glutamine synthetase enzyme activities were two to three times lower in the mutants compared to the wild-type (Table 1), which could explain nitrate accumulation and lower levels of amino acids. However, the percentage of total N remained unchanged in the nlp7 mutants (Figure S4c), indicating that their physiological status was not reminiscent of N starvation per se. The mutants were therefore not nitrogen-starved, but seem to respond to N starvation signals. Data are means ± standard deviation of four individual plants. The responses of the nlp7 mutants to nitrate were studied by following steady-state amounts of root transcripts for four known nitrate-responsive genes (high-affinity nitrate transporters NRT2.1 and NRT2.2, and the NIA1 and NIA2 genes encoding nitrate reductase) after re-supply of nitrate to N-starved plants in hydroponic culture. The wild-type and the mutants had a similar expression level for these genes after a short period of N starvation (time point zero in Figure 3). However, the expression pattern after re-supply of nitrate was different in the nlp7 mutants when compared to the wild-type (Figure 3a–d). In the wild-type, all four genes were highly induced by nitrate supply, but the induction was much lower in the nlp7 mutants, especially after 2 h of induction. At this time point, NIA1 and NIA2 expression levels in nlp7-1 were 89 and 64% lower than in the wild-type, respectively. A similar reduction was observed for the nlp7-2 mutant (84% and 62%, respectively). The induction of the nitrate transporter genes NRT2.1 and NRT2.2 was also impaired in the nlp7 mutants. Compared to the wild-type, NRT2.1 expression was two times lower in the nlp7 mutants, and NRT2.2 expression was reduced by 85 and 82% in the nlp7-1 and nlp7-2 mutants, respectively. [[FIGURE]] Using quantitative RT-PCR, we have shown that the NLP7 gene is expressed in all plant organs, but chiefly in roots (Figure S5). We studied tissue-specific expression of NLP7 using in situ mRNA and whole-mount hybridization (Figure 4a–c). NLP7 mRNA was detected in root hairs and emerging secondary roots (Figure 4a). NLP7 RNA was also detected in vascular tissue of stems (Figure 4b,c), close to the xylem. These results were confirmed by expression of the GUS reporter gene under the control of the NLP7 promoter, which was detected in the root tip and vascular tissue (Figure 4d,e, 1 h of staining) and to a lesser extent in whole roots and root hairs (Figure 4f, 16 h of staining), leaf parenchyma cells and stomata (Figure 4g, 16 h of staining). Taken together, the NLP7 gene is highly expressed in tissues or cells that are involved in transport and sensing of nutrients and assimilates. [[FIGURE]] NLPs have been described as putative transcription factors, with bipartite SV40-like nuclear localization signals (CITATION). Up to now, however, no proof of nuclear localization has been obtained for proteins of this gene family. To investigate the subcellular localization of the NLP7 protein, we cloned the NLP7 cDNA in-frame with the GFP reporter gene at either the C- or N-terminal position (35S::NLP7-GFP and 35S::GFP-NLP7). These constructs permitted the localization of NLP7 by transient expression and generation of stable lines expressing the corresponding fusion proteins. Both constructs restored the wild-type phenotype when expressed in the nlp7-1 mutant genetic background, which indicates that the fusion proteins are correctly processed and are functional in planta (Figure S6a,b). Using both transient and stable expression, we showed that NLP7 is indeed located in the nucleus (Figure 4h–j and Figure S7a–d), which is in agreement with the function of a transcriptional regulator. In addition to the clear nuclear staining, slight GFP fluorescence also occurred in the cytosol. These results were confirmed using the 1.6 kb NLP7 promoter region in front of the fusion proteins instead of the 35S promoter (Figures S6c and S7e,f). The GUS staining observed in the guard cells of the pNLP7::GUS lines led us to further investigate the involvement of NLP7 in stomatal function. We therefore performed water-loss experiments on both detached leaves and whole nlp7-1 and wild-type plants. Interestingly, water loss form excised leaves was slower for the nlp7-1 mutant compared to the wild-type (Figure 5a). Moreover, nlp7-1 mutant plants subjected to drought stress for 14 days showed less damage (leaf senescence, loss of turgor) than the wild-type, and were able to recover after 5 days of water re-supply, whereas the wild-type could not (Figure 5b). These results suggest that NLP7 may play a role in stomatal movements and drought resistance. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The nlp7-1 (SALK_26134) and nlp7-2 (SALK_114886) lines were obtained from a Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre T-DNA-mutagenized population of the Col-8 Arabidopsis ecotype. Homozygous mutant plants were identified by PCR using the primers listed in Table S2. Transgenic plants carrying 35S::NLP7cDNA-GFP or 35S::GFP-NLP7cDNA constructs or a 1.6 kb NLP7 promoter fused to the GUS reporter gene (pNLP7::GUS) were obtained by floral dipping (CITATION) of Col-8 Arabidopsis plants after cloning into Gateway technology-compatible (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) pMDC83, pMDC43 and pGWB3 plasmids, respectively. Plants were grown for 42 days in hydroponic culture (CITATION) (8 h light at 20°C, 150 μmol m−2 sec−1/16 h dark at 18°C) on limiting (0.2 mm NO3−) or non-limiting (6 mm NO3−) nitrate supply. The solutions were changed three times per week during the first 5 weeks of the culture and then changed daily. For nitrate induction experiments, mutant and wild-type plants were grown under the same conditions for 21 days on 6 mm NO3− supply, starved for 5 days (0 mm NO3−), and re-supplied with 6 mm NO3− for 0, 30, 60 or 120 min. Plants were harvested 2 h after the start of the light period, and immediately frozen in liquid N2. Plants were grown in vitro for 12 days on vertical agar plates containing either 9 mm nitrate (CITATION) or no nitrogen. For the medium without nitrogen, the ion balance was adjusted by adding KCl (5 mm) and CaCl2 (4 mm). The culture was performed at 18°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark), with a light intensity of 70 μmol m−2 sec−1. The plates were photographed, and the primary root length and lateral root number were determined using Photolite software (Photonic Science, http://www.photonic-science.co.uk). nlp7-1 and wild-type plants were grown in the greenhouse for 49 days. Water loss from excised leaves was measured by weighing leaves placed under a laminar air flow. For drought resistance experiments, plants were grown for 23 days on soil in the greenhouse (watered twice a week), drought-stressed (no irrigation) for 14 days and, then re-supplied with nutrient solution for 5 days (watered every second day). Plants were grown in hydroponic culture as described above. After ethanolic extraction, nitrate and amino acid contents were determined in leaf and root samples (CITATION). A further aliquot of the same frozen plant material was used for determination of the maximum in vitro activities of nitrate reductase (CITATION) and glutamine synthetase (CITATION). Means and standard errors were calculated from three biological repetitions of three plants each. Total RNAs were isolated from shoots and roots using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocols. Microarray analysis was performed using the complete Arabidopsis transcriptome micro array (CATMA) array, containing 24 576 gene-specific tags from Arabidopsis thaliana (CITATION; CITATION). RNA samples from two independent biological replicates were used for each comparison, with dye-swap technical replicates (i.e. four hybridizations per comparison). The labelling, hybridizations and scanning were performed as described previously (CITATION). The statistical analysis was based on two dye swaps (CITATION). To determine differentially expressed genes, we performed a paired t test on the log ratios, assuming that the variance of the log ratios was the same for all genes. The raw P values were adjusted by the Bonferroni method, which controls the family-wise error rate. Genes with a family-wise error rate of 5% were considered as differentially expressed. Using the Bonferroni method (with a type I error equal to 5%) avoids false positives in a multiple-comparison context (CITATION). Reverse transcription reactions and quantitative PCR were performed as described by CITATION (see Table S2 for primer sets). Results are given as a percentage of the expression of the EF1α gene (At5g60390), which was used as a constitutive reference. Transgenic plants carrying a pNLP7::GUS construct were grown on horizontal plates (CITATION) for 10 days at 25°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) with 75% relative humidity and with a light intensity of 100 μmol m−2 sec−1. The plantlets were observed under a light microscope (Axioplan 2, Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/) after GUS staining (CITATION). Transgenic plants carrying a 35S::NLP7cDNA-GFP or 35S::GFP-NLP7cDNA construct (see above) were grown on horizontal plates on standard culture medium (CITATION) for 6 days at 25°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) with 75% relative humidity and a light intensity of 100 μmol m−2 sec−1. The fluorescence was observed using a TCS-SP2-AOBS confocal microscope (Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com). The pMDC83-NLP7 and pMDC43-NLP7 plasmids used to obtain stable Arabidopsis transformants (see above) were introduced into Arabidopsis cell-suspension protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation (CITATION). Confocal laser-scanning microscopy using a TCS-SP2-AOBS confocal microscope (Leica) was performed 24 h after transformation. A 466 bp 3′NLP7 DNA template for the antisense RNA probe was produced by PCR using the oligonucleotides listed in Table S2. Dioxygenin labelling of the RNA probe, tissue preparation and in situ hybridization were performed as described previously (CITATION). Whole-mount hybridization of NLP7 mRNA was performed using the same probe. The coloration was observed under a light microscope (Axioplan 2, Zeiss).
