!~ABS~! The BIM1 protein which has been implicated in brassinosteroid (BR) signal transduction was identified from a two hybrid screen using the N-terminus, including the AP2 domain, of the transcription factors DORNROESCHEN (DRN) and DORNROESCHEN-LIKE (DRNL) which control embryonic patterning. The protein–protein interaction between BIM1 and DRN or DRNL was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and for DRN also in vivo by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. BIM1 can also physically interact with PHAVOLUTA (PHV), another interaction partner of DRN and DRNL. Loss of BIM1 function results in embryo patterning defects at low penetrance, including cell division defects in the hypophyseal region and apical domain defects such as cotyledon fusion and polycotyledony, in addition to polyembryony. BIM1 expression overlaps with that of DRN and DRNL from early globular embryo stages onwards. Higher order mutants between bim1, drn, drnl and phv suggest that although BIM1 may act partially redundantly with DRN in early embryo development, all genes function within the same pathway determining cotyledon development, supporting the hypothesis that they participate in a multimeric transcription factor complex. A role of BIM1 in embryonic development not only implicates a function for brassinosteroids in this process, but the interaction of BIM1 with DRN, involved with auxin signalling, represents a possible point of hormonal crosstalk in embryonic patterning and the first example of an interaction of components of the auxin and BR signalling pathways.
!~RES~! The BIM1 gene was identified from independent yeast two-hybrid screens using DRN or DRNL as a bait. In either case, the amino terminal 116 or 117 amino acids of the DRN or DRNL, respectively, were used as a bait, which contain the AP2 domain but exclude activating sequences located towards the C-terminus. For the screen with DRN and DRNL respectively, 177 positive clones from a total of 1576 or 119 from a total of approximately 2000 were sequenced, following quadruple selection for the TRP, LEU, ADE and the β-Glucuronidase reporter gene. Amongst these clones in each case were those encoding several protein kinases, metabolic enzymes and proteins with unknown function, and for the screen with DRN, PHAVOLUTA (Chandler et al. CITATION). Common to both populations was BIM1, which was independently isolated 26 times from the screen with DRN and nine times for DRNL (Fig. 1). The position of the different BIM1 clones from each screen is indicated in Fig. 1, relative to the open reading frame. Although random-primed cDNA synthesis gave rise to the yeast two hybrid library, all BIM1 clones clustered to the C-terminus and did not contain the bHLH DNA-binding/dimerization motif. The shortest clone for the screen with DRN and DRNL encoded 104 or 100 C-terminal amino acids, respectively, thus identifying a protein interaction complex involving the BIM1 C-terminus, a region showing patchy homology between BIM1, BIM2 and BIM3 (Yin et al. CITATION). The yeast two hybrid interactions were substantiated at the biochemical level by co-immunoprecipitation (CoIP) experiments using HA epitope-tagged full-length BIM1 and His-tagged full-length DRN and DRNL proteins. Both DRN and DRNL could be co-precipitated by BIM1 (Fig. 2a, b), confirming stable, high-affinity protein–protein interactions. The input proteins were detected with both antibodies as a control and only the respective proteins were detected in each case, demonstrating that the IP and CoIP detections were specific. As an additional control, mock CoIPs were performed using protein A beads against IgGs for protein purification. The absence of detectable bands once more confirms that co-precipitation of DRN and DRNL is dependent on BIM1. The biochemical interaction between DRN and BIM1 was further tested in vivo, using BiFC (Walter et al. CITATION) in a transient assay in leek epidermal cells. Control experiments with GFP fused to both proteins gave GFP expression (Fig. 2c, d), showing that both proteins can be functionally expressed in this system. Additionally, BiFC using full-length DRN and BIM1 proteins reproducibly demonstrated a functional in planta interaction between BIM1 and DRN in multiple independent experiments when co-bombarded into leek cells (Fig. 2f). The frequency of fluorescent cells in independent experiments was three, six and one, respectively. A functional interaction with BiFC was only observed by combining YFP moieties at the C-terminal end of BIM1 and N-terminal end of DRN (Fig. 2e), reflecting the interaction domains resulting from the two hybrid screen, and not with other combinations, demonstrating there is some steric constraint to the protein–protein interaction. Negative controls included co-bombardment of empty YFP vectors (data not shown) and we found no evidence of heterodimerisation of DRN with DRNL, nor interaction between DRN and SHOOTMERISTEMLESS using BiFC (Chandler et al. CITATION), demonstrating here not only that BIM1 can form stable heterodimers with DRN in planta, but also that this interaction is specific for DRN. A further control for the specificity of interaction is the necessity in steric terms, for a particular conformation in BiFC experiments. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  As DRN and DRNL interact with PHV via their AP2 domain and the PAS domain in the PHV protein (Chandler et al. CITATION), as well as with BIM1, we queried whether BIM1 was also capable of interacting with PHV. The rationale for this experiment is the hypothesis that DRN, BIM1 and PHV mutually interact via a ternary protein complex. For this, His-tagged full-length DRN protein, HA-tagged full-length BIM1 protein and full-length myc-tagged PHV were co-transcripted/translated in vitro, and CoIP was performed via the myc and HA tags. BIM1 could be co-precipitated by PHV and reciprocally, PHV by BIM1 (Fig. 3a, b). In the same experiment, DRN could be co-precipitated by both PHV and BIM1 (Fig. 3a, b). Although these data are not confirmation of a ternary protein complex between DRN, PHV and BIM1, the fact that DRN, BIM1 and PHV can mutually and stably interact with each other indicates that this is a strong possibility. [[FIGURE]]  The position of the T-DNA insertion within bim1 is after nucleotide +689 (relative to the ATG) of the BIM1 gene (Fig. 1). The phenotype of bim1 mutants consists of embryo cell division defects observable from the globular stage. This is the stage in wild type when the hypophysis divides asymmetrically to result in an upper lens-shaped cell, the precursor of the quiescent centre, and a lower daughter cell which will proscribe the columella stem cells (Fig. 4a). In bim1 mutants, abnormal and asymmetric cell divisions are occasionally observed in the hypophysis region or in the upper lens-shaped cell (Fig. 4b, c), leading to abnormal embryonic cell patterning. Alternatively, atypical cell divisions cause the resolution between the embryo proper and the suspensor to be lost, with multiple cell files in the suspensor (Fig. 4c). These defects occur at low penetrance in about 7% of bim1 embryos (Table 2) and are reflected in a post-germination phenotype (about 2% seedlings, Table 2), where the embryo lacks a central and/or basal domain (Fig. 4h, i). In rare cases (<1% embryos), defects in cotyledon ontogeny are also observed, with embryos showing either mono- or tricotyledony or fused cotyledons (Fig. 4f). In rare cases (approximately 0.2% of homozygous embryos), polyembryony is observed (Fig. 4g and Table 2), with two seedlings germinating from a single seed (Fig. 4f). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] In view of the ability of the BIM1 protein to interact with DRN and DRNL, we characterised the expression pattern of the BIM1 gene to confirm spatial co-expression with both DRN and DRNL. BIM1 is expressed in the embryo from the early globular stage (Fig. 5a), before being localised to apical regions of the globular embryo (Fig. 5b) and to the lobes of the developing cotyledons (Fig. 5c, d), thus showing a very similar spatial and developmental expression pattern to that of DRN and DRNL (Chandler et al. CITATION). PHV has also been shown to co-express spatially and temporally with DRN and DRNL in the pro-embryo and in the apical region of the globular embryo (Prigge et al. CITATION; Chandler et al. CITATION), and also with BIM1 in this study. [[FIGURE]]  The synthetic auxin-responsive DR5::GFP reporter is widely used for the in planta visualisation of active auxin concentration or response (Benková et al. CITATION; Bao et al. CITATION). A total of 92 bim1 mutant plants expressing the DR5::GFPer construct were analysed from the four-cell stage to torpedo stage and in no case was the DR5 expression pattern altered compared with wild type, with a concentration of DR5 expression observed in the hypophysis at early globular stages (Fig. 5e, f) and subsequently in the tips of the developing cotyledons (Fig. 5g, h). This is in contrast to in drn mutants, which show an absence of DR5 expression in these regions (Chandler et al. CITATION). We therefore conclude that BIM1 has no effect on the concentration of auxin in these tissues, which has been shown to be essential in regulating apical-basal development (Friml et al. CITATION). Based on the finding that BIM1 interacts with DRN and DRNL, we tested for potential genetic interactions between BIM1 and either DRN or DRNL by creating bim1 drn and bim1 drnl double mutants. Both double mutants showed a similar range of post-germination cotyledon defects observed in the single mutants and a similarly low phenotypic penetrance (Table 3). However, there was clearly a higher proportion of embryo cell division defects in bim1 drn double mutants (81%), compared to each single mutant (52% for drn and 7% for bim1, Table 3), suggesting that BIM1 provides an additional contribution to early embryonic development, to that of DRN. The embryo phenotype of bim1 drn or bim1 drnl mutants was no more extreme than that of single drn or bim1 mutants, either reflecting abnormal hypophysis region divisions or multiple cell files in the suspensor (Fig. 4d, e). No additional mutant phenotype was observed at later developmental stages.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] DRN and DRNL also interact with PHAVOLUTA (PHV) and both DRN and PHV contribute to the same pathway leading to correct embryonic cell divisions (Chandler et al. CITATION). We therefore constructed higher order mutants including drn and drnl and phv or bim1 to test for any genetic redundancy between gene functions in cotyledon development. The penetrance of cotyledon phenotypes in the bim1 drn phv triple mutant was not obviously higher than that of drn single mutants and drn phv double mutants, including the proportion of seedlings with a monopteros (mp)-like phenotype (Table 3). As DRNL also interacts with PHV and BIM1 and is highly redundant with DRN (Chandler et al. CITATION), we analysed both drn drnl bim1 triple mutants and drn drnl phv bim1 quadruple mutants, to determine whether BIM1 and PHV control embryonic patterning in pathways not involving DRN and DRNL. Triple or quadruple mutants showed a high variance in the penetrance of cotyledon defects between different lines, but in no case did the penetrance exceed that of the drn drnl double mutant, suggesting that PHV and BIM1 both function in the same pathway as DRN/DRNL and lending support to the hypothesis that they are a part of the same protein complex. Since BIM1, BIM2 and BIM3 act redundantly in hypocotyl elongation (Yin et al. CITATION), and redundancy exists between DRN and DRNL and within the Class III HD-ZIP family including PHV in the control of embryo patterning (Chandler et al. CITATION; Prigge et al. CITATION), we investigated whether the low penetrance of bim1 embryo defects could be explained by redundant functions of BIM2 and BIM3 in embryogenesis, by analysing the phenotype of bim1 bim2 bim3 triple mutants. Neither bim2 nor bim3 single mutants demonstrated obvious cotyledon defects (Table 3). Additionally, bim1 bim2 bim3 triple mutants showed no increased penetrance of cotyledon or embryo defects above that of the single bim1 mutant (Tables 2 and 3), suggesting that BIM2 and BIM3 functions do not contribute to embryonic patterning pathways.
!~MM~! Plants were grown on soil in the greenhouse or in sterile culture on 0.5× MS medium supplemented with 1% sucrose under long day (16 h light/8 h dark) conditions at 22°C. A T-DNA insertion line (SALK_132178) in the Columbia background was obtained from the SALK collection (Alonso et al. CITATION) with a T-DNA insertion in the BIM1 gene (At5g08130). The position of the insertion was verified using primers LBa1 and BIM1R and the resulting amplicon was cloned into the topo II vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced. The wild type BIM1 gene was detected using primers BIM1F and BIMR which span the insertion. The bim1 bim2 bim3 triple mutant (Yin et al. CITATION), which contains an insertion upstream of the BIM1 open reading frame (SALK_085924) was crossed to the bim1 insertion line SALK_132178 and a triple mutant isolated by PCR genotyping which contained the SALK_132178 insertion as well as those in BIM2 and BIM3, using BIM2- and BIM3-specific primers and LBa1. Homozygous bim2 and bim3 single mutants were additionally isolated from this cross. Genotyping of drn, drnl and phv mutant lines is described in Chandler et al. (CITATION). The sequence of all other primers is given in Table 1.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] The construction of a meristem-enriched cDNA library has been described by Cole et al. (CITATION). Yeast two hybrid screening was described previously (Chandler et al. CITATION). For the screen with DRN, 348 bp of the DRN open reading frame encoding the amino terminal 116 amino acids of the DRN protein was amplified by PCR using the primers DRNbaitF and DRNbaitR (Table 1) for use as bait. Similarly, for the screen with DRNL, 351 bp of the open reading frame encoding the amino terminal 117 amino acids of the DRNL protein was amplified using primers DRNLbaitF and DRNLbaitR (Table 1). For non-radioactive in situ hybridisation on sections of Arabidopsis embryos, young siliques about 5–10 mm in length were trimmed at both ends, fixed in formaldehyde and embedded in paraffin wax. Samples were sectioned using a rotary microtome and 7 μm sections were used for hybridisation. A 784 bp fragment of the BIM1 mRNA extending from +625 bp of the coding region (with the A of the start codon being +1), to the stop codon and including 181 bp of 3′ untranslated sequence, was cloned in either sense or antisense orientation to the T7 promoter and used as a template for synthesis of dioxygenin-labelled RNA probes by T7 polymerase as described by Bradley et al. (CITATION). For bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), the ORFs encoding full-length BIM1 and DRN proteins were cloned to enable the YFP moiety to be either expressed N-terminally or C-terminally in relation to BIM1 or DRN proteins. For C-terminal YFP fusions, BIM1 and DRN were cloned in-frame into the vectors pUC-SPYNE (containing the N-terminal YFP moiety) or pUC-SPYCE (containing the C-terminal YFP moiety (Walter et al. CITATION) using BamHI. For N-terminal YFP fusions, BIM1 and DRN were appropriately cloned into the pRT-NotI/AscI vector (Überlacker and Werr CITATION), containing the N-terminal YFP moiety (pRT-NE) or C-terminal moieties of YFP (pRT-CE). For control experiments for BIM1, a GFP fusion was created in the pRT-NotI/AscI vector (Überlacker and Werr CITATION). Transient expression of the constructs in leek epidermal cells was performed according to Cole et al. (CITATION). YFP/GFP fluorescence was visualised using a MZFLIII stereomicroscope (Leica) after UV excitation and using a GFP filter. Images were processed using Photoshop software (Adobe). Epitope-tagged proteins were synthesised using the EasyXpress protein system (Qiagen) in an in vitro transcription/translation system based on the T7 promoter. A T7 promoter transcription template of BIM1 was obtained via nested PCR reactions on the BIM1 open reading frame in pUC-SPYCE which contains an HA epitope coding sequence prior to the YFP C-terminal domain. Both the T7 promoter and the 6× His tag or myc tag were added to the DRN/DRNL and PHV coding regions respectively by a nested PCR strategy. BIM1, DRN and PHV proteins were cotranscribed/translated by mixing the relevant amplicons. Control reactions were performed with single amplicons. The MACS epitope-tagged protein isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec) was used to purify BIM1 or PHV proteins via the HA or myc epitope. For co-immunoprecipitation (CoIP) experiments, the two or three respective proteins were mixed and eluted protein samples were divided into two or three fractions, size-fractionated in parallel on different polyacrylamide SDS-gels, electroblotted onto Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore) and subjected to antibody detection. For CoIPs with BIM1 and DRN or DRNL, a mock control was performed using protein A beads for protein purification. HA-tagged BIM1 protein was identified using an anti-HA horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody (clone 3F10; Roche: 2012819). The co-precipitated 6-His-tagged DRN and DRN-LIKE proteins were visualised by a primary penta-His mouse antibody (α-(H)5; Qiagen: 34660) and secondary horseradish peroxidase-coupled goat anti-mouse IgG (Dianova: 115-035-062). Myc-tagged PHV was detected by an anti-(C-myc) antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidise (Roche 1814150). Peroxidase activity was detected non-radioactively via chemiluminescence (ECL PLUS kit, Amersham Biosciences) and documented on Kodak-X-Omat AR films. The DR5::GFPer reporter line (a gift from J. Fiml, Göttingen University, Germany) was crossed into the bim1 mutant background. Homozygous bim1 plants containing the DR5::GFPer construct were analysed for GFP expression using a Leica confocal microscope. For microscopic analysis of embryos, ovules were harvested from siliques and cleared overnight with Hoyer’s solution (2.5 g gum arabic, 100 g chloral hydrate, 5 ml glycerol and 30 ml H20). Microscopy was performed using a Zeiss Axiophot microscope equipped with an Axiocam HR CCD camera using differential interference contrast optics. Images were subsequently processed in Adobe photoshop.
