!~ABS~! Guard cells, which form stoma in leaf epidermis, sense and integrate environmental signals to modulate stomatal aperture in response to diverse conditions. Under drought stress, plants synthesize abscisic acid (ABA), which in turn induces a rapid closing of stoma, to prevent water loss by transpiration. However, many aspects of the molecular mechanism for ABA-mediated stomatal closure are still not understood. Here, we report a novel negative regulator of guard cell ABA signaling, DOR, in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The DOR gene encodes a putative F-box protein, a member of the S-locus F-box-like family related to AhSLF-S2 and specifically interacting with ASK14 and CUL1. A null mutation in DOR resulted in a hypersensitive ABA response of stomatal closing and a substantial increase of drought tolerance; in contrast, the transgenic plants overexpressing DOR were more susceptible to the drought stress. DOR is strongly expressed in guard cells and suppressed by ABA treatment, suggesting a negative feedback loop of DOR in ABA responses. Double-mutant analyses of dor with ABA-insensitive mutant abi1-1 showed that abi1-1 is epistatic to dor, but no apparent change of phospholipase Dα1 was detected between the wild type and dor. Affymetrix GeneChip analysis showed that DOR likely regulates ABA biosynthesis under drought stress. Taken together, our results demonstrate that DOR acts independent of phospholipase Dα1 in an ABA signaling pathway to inhibit the ABA-induced stomatal closure under drought stress.
!~RES~! F-box proteins are known to play important roles in various aspects of plant growth and development via the ubiqutin/26S proteasome pathways (CITATION). To examine possible functions of the Arabidopsis AtSFL gene family related to AhSLF-S2 (CITATION), which controls the pollen function of S-RNase-based self-incompatibility (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION), we obtained a total of 61 T-DNA insertion lines corresponding to 40 individual genes (CITATION). Most of the T-DNA mutations produced no obvious morphological phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION). We reasoned that some of them could produce conditional phenotypes under various environmental stresses given the fact that several of these genes were inducible under various abiotic stresses (data no shown). Thus, we first performed a drought treatment of these T-DNA mutants. Water was withheld from the T-DNA insertion mutant seedlings grown in a growth room for 2 weeks. Putative mutants with drought response phenotypes were scored by the degree of leaf wilting compared with that of wild-type plants. In this way, we identified a loss-of-function mutant that showed a significant increase in drought tolerance after the water withdrawal experiment; thus, the gene was subsequently named as DOR (for drought tolerance repressor; At2g31470). The dor mutant plants did not show any obvious morphological or developmental abnormalities under normal growth conditions (Fig. 1A ). However, when subjected to the drought stress, as shown in Figure 1A, the dor plants were turgid and their leaves remained green, whereas the wild-type plants showed severe wilting and chlorosis of the rosette leaves, indicating the dor mutation enhanced the plant tolerance to drought stress. [[FIGURE]] To examine the physiological mechanism of the drought tolerance of the dor plants, we investigated the mutation on water loss and transpiration rate during drought stress. First, we measured the water loss from the wild-type and the dor rosette leaves after incubation at 22°C in the light. As shown in Figure 1B, detached leaves of the dor mutant lost water more slowly than did those of the wild-type plants. But the water loss showed no apparent difference between the wild type and dor in the first 2 h, owing to the fact that dor plants had a lower relative water content (RWC) level compared to wild-type plants prior the treatment, with the RWC of dor and wild-type leaves at approximately 82% and 84% (P < 0.05; Fig. 1C), respectively. To estimate whole-plant transpiration under drought stress, we examined the RWC level of wild-type and dor plants after the cessation of irrigation. Transpirational water loss, as determined by the RWC measurements after 8 and 12 d from the start of the drought treatment, was greatly reduced in the mutant compared to the wild type (P < 0.001; Fig. 1C). The higher RWC level in the dor plants during drought stress indicates that the dor plants could limit the water loss and maintain a higher RWC, resulting in an enhanced drought tolerance. DOR encodes a putative F-box protein, AtSFL35, a member of Class C of the AtSFL gene family (CITATION). The dor mutant was found to have a T-DNA inserted 3 bp downstream of the translational start of the coding region (Supplemental Fig. S1A). DNA-blot hybridization showed that a single T-DNA copy was inserted into the genome (Supplemental Fig. S1B), and DOR is a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome (Supplemental Fig. S1C). No DOR transcripts were detected in the homozygous dor plants, indicating a complete loss of gene function (Fig. 2A ). To further confirm dor was indeed a null allele, we analyzed the cDNA fragment downstream of the insertion site, and the result showed that no DOR transcripts were detected in the homozygous dor plants (Supplemental Fig. S1D). [[FIGURE]] To further test whether the drought tolerance of dor was the result of DOR gene disruption, we introduced a 35S∷DOR wild-type genomic region construct (Fig. 2B) into the dor plants. Six independent transgenic lines were fully complemented showing the wild-type phenotype, indicating a full complementation of the null allele (one line, Rescued dor-1S, is shown in Fig. 2C). To further confirm the identity of DOR, the dor mutant was transformed with the DOR genomic region under its own promoter (Fig. 2C, Rescued dor-1E). There was no discernable difference observed between the two types of rescued plant phenotypes, and all the following analyses were thus performed with the dor plants rescued with DOR∷TAPa under the 35S promoter. In addition, the transgenic lines were analyzed by DNA blot to confirm their molecular phenotypes (Supplemental Fig. S2), and the results of quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) indicated that DOR expression was markedly increased at the mRNA level in the rescued lines compared with the wild type (Fig. 2D). This latter finding was consistent with the fact that the overexpression lines were more susceptible to drought stress (Fig. 2C, Rescued dor-1S and Rescued dor-1E). Infrared thermography can be used as a proxy indicator of stomatal function, because plants with stomata that are more closed lose less thermal energy by evaporative cooling and, therefore, register as being warmer by thermography. Conversely, plants whose stomata are more open should be cooler (CITATION). Our infrared thermal imaging revealed that the leaf surface temperature of the overexpression line Rescued dor-1S was about 0.5°C cooler than that of the wild-type plants, whereas the temperature of the dor plants was approximately 0.5°C warmer than that of the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S3A). These results suggest that the Rescued dor-1S plants resulted in more open stomata, so as to lose more water by transpiration under drought stress. In addition, the results of the water loss for the Rescued dor-1S, wild-type, and dor plants also proved that the dor plant lost water more slowly during drought stress than Rescued dor-1S and wild-type plants (Supplemental Fig. S3B). Taken together, these results demonstrate that DOR encodes a negative regulator of drought tolerance. Stomata are known to close in response to drought stress to limit water loss by transpiration. During this process, ABA is synthesized and plays a role in closing stomata. To examine this possibility, we first measured the endogenous ABA in dor and the wild type using an immunoassay. The content of ABA in the wild type and dor did not show a significant difference in the absence of the stress treatment (Fig. 3 ). But after the drought treatment, the endogenous ABA was increased more in the dor mutant than that in the wild type (Fig. 3; P < 0.001), consistent with the higher RWC level in the dor plants (Supplemental Fig. S4), suggesting that the dor plant had an elevated endogenous ABA level under drought stress. To further investigate whether dor affected the sensitivity of guard cells to ABA, we measured the changes in stomatal aperture after ABA treatment. We exposed the wild-type and dor plants to strong light and high humidity to induce a full stomatal opening, and epidermal peels from these plants were used to analyze stomatal responses to ABA (CITATION). In response to ABA treatment at different concentrations, stomata in the dor plants were almost completely closed with 5 μm ABA treatment for 2 h, but the stomata did not completely close even with 20 μm ABA in wild-type plants for the same treatment duration (Fig. 4, A and B ). These results indicate that dor showed an ABA hypersensitivity of the stomatal closing compared with the wild type. However, other well-characterized responses to ABA, such as the inhibition of seed germination (Fig. 4C) and the reduction of vegetative growth (data not shown, but see Fig. 1A), were not significantly altered in the dor plants. These results show that DOR plays a role in controlling the ABA sensitivity of the guard cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As a first step to look into the reason as why DOR specifically acts in the guard cells, we used qRT-PCR to analyze DOR expression in five major tissues, including silique, root, leaf, seedling, and flower. As shown in Figure 5A , DOR mRNA was detected in flower, seeding, and rosette leaves, but its expression in the root and silique was extremely low. In addition, DOR mRNA was generally of a very low abundance and hardly detectable in northern blots of these samples (data not shown). To gain more insight into the cell type expression pattern of DOR, we generated the transgenic plants harboring a transcriptional fusion of the GUS reporter gene and a putative DOR promoter. The result indicated that GUS activity was clearly visible in the stoma of the leaves (Fig. 5B). No GUS signals were detected in tissues devoid of stoma, suggesting that DOR expression is preferentially expressed in the guard cells. This was consistent with the finding that the DOR gene was expressed in the guard cells compared with the mesophyll cells by a previous microarray analysis (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, we examined whether ABA treatment induced a change in the DOR transcript level. As shown in Figure 5C, DOR expression was rapidly reduced during early application of exogenous ABA in the wild-type plants. Similarly, DOR expression was reduced by drought stress (Fig. 5D). These results suggested that DOR acts as a negative regulator of guard cell ABA signaling, but its own expression is suppressed by ABA, revealing a negative feedback loop for ABA response. As a guard cell-preferential gene, how is DOR involved in ABA signaling? We found that the ABA-induced reduction of DOR expression observed in the wild-type plants (see Fig. 5C) was completely abolished in an abi1-1 background (Fig. 5E), suggesting that ABI1 is essential for this ABA repression of DOR. In addition, DOR expression was elevated in abi1-1, suggesting that ABI1 negatively regulates DOR expression. To further examine whether DOR acts exclusively through the ABI1-mediated ABA signaling pathway, we generated a homozygous double mutant of dor/abi1-1. The dor/abi1-1 double mutant showed the ABA insensitivity in seed germination, the impairment in ABA-induced stomatal closing, and the wilty phenotype similar to those of the abi1-1 single mutant (Fig. 6, A–C ; Supplemental Fig. S5), indicating that abi1-1 is epistatic to dor, the dor locus acts upstream of the abi1-1 locus, and, together with the increased expression of DOR in abi1-1, they also formed a negative regulatory feedback loop for ABA signaling. [[FIGURE]] Recently, CITATION reported PLDα1 and PA act upstream of GPA1 and ABI1 in a pathway regulating the stomatal responses to ABA signals. We next examined whether DOR and PLDα1 function in the same pathway by probing immunoblots with an antibody against PLDα1, and the results indicated that the PLDα1 protein did not show any obvious change in the wild-type and dor plants under the normal and drought stresses (Fig. 7 ). However, we found that PLDα1 protein in the wild type and dor was drastically decreased by drought treatment, and this may be related to other signal transduction pathway(s) that the PLDα1 protein involves. In addition, the ABA responses of the double mutant dor/pldα1 resembled the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S6), confirming that they function independently. These results suggested that DOR does not act through PLDα1 in its negative regulation of ABA responses in the guard cells and possibly represents a new pathway. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that DOR actually encodes an F-box protein (Fig. 8A ), we examined whether DOR interacts with ASK proteins by a yeast two-hybrid analysis. We isolated 17 ASK genes from Arabidopsis and tested the interaction between them and DOR. The result indicated that DOR specifically interacts with the ASK14 protein (Fig. 8B). To further confirm that DOR forms the SCF complex, we performed a pull-down assay using an antibody against AtCUL1, which is a known subunit of several SCF complexes. CUL1 proteins were detected in the pull-down product of the TAPa-tagged DOR (DOR-TAPa) transgenic plants and the wild type, whereas no protein was detected in the negative control TAPa transgenic plants (Fig. 8C). In general, it was observed that conjugation of RUB1 occurred on wild-type CUL1 protein, but such a modification did not occur on the C-terminal DOR-TAPa, which could be explained by the finding that the N-terminal and C-terminal TAPa fusions could have different functional properties (CITATION). Taken together, these results indicate that DOR is associated with the two known subunits of the SCF complex and likely forms a bona fide SCFDOR complex in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To find further functional clues to DOR, we performed an Affymetrix GeneChip analysis to investigate the effect of DOR gene disruption on global gene expression under drought stress. Subsequently, we found among the transcripts up-regulated in the dor mutant (Table I ), the NCED3 gene encoding a key enzyme, 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase, in ABA biosynthesis (CITATION) was significantly enhanced in the dor plants after drought treatment, suggesting that more synthesis and accumulation of endogenous ABA occurred in the dor plant. Moreover, the ABA- and desiccation-inducible genes (i.e. RD29A, RD29B, XERO2, and RAB18; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) were also highly expressed in the dor plants (Table I). The high-level expression of ABA-biosynthetic and ABA-responsive genes in the dor plants is consistent with the fact that the disruption of the DOR gene slightly increased the cellular ABA levels but with the dramatic increase after the drought stress (see Fig. 3). In addition, we did drought treatment for the detached leaves from wild type and dor mutant and harvested the samples at two time points, 2 and 6 h, and then did qRT-PCR for the NCED3, RAB18, and RD29A expression profiles. The results showed that NCED3 expression was significantly enhanced in the dor plants after drought treatment in the first 2 h, and the RAB18 and RD29A were strongly enhanced at 6 h after drought treatment (Supplemental Fig. S8). Taken together, these results show that DOR, as an F-box protein, is likely involved in the regulation of ABA biosynthesis under drought stress, though other possible roles in regulating the ABA breakdown and/or signaling could not be completely excluded at this stage. Top candidate genes differentially expressed between the wild-type and dor leaves under drought stress using ATH1 GeneChip
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia was used. The dor mutant was obtained from the SALK T-DNA insertion collection (http://signal.salk.edu). The original line was Salk-050074. The abi1-1 mutant seeds were a gift from Xiangdong Fu (Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences). Arabidopsis plants were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2% (w/v) Suc and 0.8% (w/v) agar or grown in soil under a long-day condition (16 h light, 8 h dark) at 22°C, except where otherwise stated. Total RNA was prepared as previously described (CITATION) and was digested with DNase I (TaKaRa). Reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) was used to synthesize the first strand cDNA. Specific primers of DOR used for RT-PCR were as follows: 5′-ACCCTATTCTTATATCGTTCC-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGGGTTACATATCGCCGAGAC-3′ (reverse). Specific primers of DOR used for RT-PCR of the downstream sequence of the T-DNA insertion site were as follows: 5′-CCAGAATTTGTCTCGGCGAT-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCTCTTCCTTGTCTTAGGTTTTGG-3′ (reverse). Specific primers of TUBULIN used for RT-PCR were as follows: 5′-TTTGGAGCCTGGGACTATGGAT-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACGGGGGAATGGGATGAGAT-3′ (reverse). RT was performed using TaqMan Reverse Transcription Regents kit (Applied Biosystems). The cDNA samples were diluted to 10, 5, and 1 ng/μL. Triplicate quantitative assays were performed on 1 μL of each cDNA dilution using the SYBR Green Master mix with an ABI 7900 sequence detection system according to the manufacturer's protocol (Applied Biosystems). Gene-specific primers were designed by using PRIMEREXPRESS 1.0 software (Applied Biosystems). The relative quantization method (ΔΔCT) was used to evaluate quantitative variation between the replicates examined. The amplification of 18S rRNA was used as an internal control to normalize all data. Specific primers of DOR used for qRT-PCR were as follows: 5′-CCAGAATTTGTCTCGGCGAT-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCTCTTCCTTGTCTTAGGTTTTGG-3′ (reverse). Specific primers of 18S rRNA used for qRT-PCR were as follows: 5′-CGGCTACCACATCCAAGGAA-3′ (forward) and 5′-TGTCACTACCTCCCCGTGTCA-3′ (reverse). Genomic DNA sequence corresponding to 1,858 bp upstream of the predicted ATG codon of the DOR open reading frame was cloned into pCAMBIA1391 binary vector between SmaI and SalI sites. Junction sequences of the resulting construct DOR∷GUS were sequenced for verification. The PCR primers used were as follows: 5′-ATGTCGACGTGTGGCTAACTCTTCTCTGTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-ATCCCGGGGTTGCAGTAATCAAATTCTTTTGGAAC-3′ (reverse). The open reading frame sequence of the DOR gene was introduced into the pC-TAPa vector (see Fig. 1C). The PCR primers used were as follows: 5′-CACCACAAAATGAAATCACGGCGACAGAATGTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-TATAAGCTTCACATCCTCTACATG-3′ (reverse). Genomic DNA sequence corresponding to 1,858 bp upstream the predicted ATG codon of DOR and the full-length genomic sequence of DOR was cloned into pCAMBIA1300 binary vector between SmaI and SalI sites. The PCR primers used were as follows: 5′-ATGTCGACGTGTGGCTAACTCTTCTCTGTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-TATAAGCTTCACATCCTCTACATG-3′ (reverse). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were obtained by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). Analyses of transgenic lines were performed on homozygous T3 progeny plants. For ABA treatments, 3-week-old wild-type and abi1-1 seedling were grown in solid Murashige and Skoog medium with 2% (w/v) Suc and transferred to liquid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 100 μm ABA. For drought stress, both the wild-type and dor plants were grown under normal watering conditions for 24 d and then stressed by completely depriving them of irrigation for 11 d. For water loss measurement, rosette leaves of wild type and the dor mutant were detached as described above. Loss in fresh weight (FW) was monitored at indicated time points. RWC was measured after drought stress. The leaves were detached and weighted for the initial FW, then were submerged in water overnight to measure saturated weight (SW), followed by drying in an oven at 80°C for 24 h for dry weight (DW). RWC was expressed as (FW − DW)/(SW − DW) × 100%. Arabidopsis rosette leaf samples were homogenized in liquid nitrogen prior to RNA isolation. Total RNA was extracted using Qiagen Rneasy kit (Valencia). For Affymetrix GeneChip ATH1 analysis, 8 μg of total RNA was used for making biotin-labeled cRNA targets. The process for microarray experiment followed the GeneChip Standard Protocol (Eukaryotic Target Preparation), including cDNA and cRNA synthesis, cRNA fragmentation, hybridization, washing and staining, scanning, etc. In this experiment, we applied Poly-A RNA Control kit and the One-Cycle cDNA Synthesis kit. We used Affymetrix developed GCOS software to do data collection and normalization so that signals from different arrays were comparable. The overall intensity of all probe sets of each array was scaled to 500 so hybridization intensity of all arrays was equivalent, and each probe set was assigned P, A, and M and also a P value from algorithm in GCOS. To find differentially expressed genes between wild type and the mutant or between control and drought stress, the log2-transformed signal ratio of each gene was calculated by applying the GCOS baseline tool. ATH1 GeneChip was used for gene expression analysis of wild-type and dor mutant plants under drought treatment (both the wild-type and dor plants were grown under normal watering conditions for 24 d and then stressed by completely depriving them of irrigation for 10 d). Two biological repeat experiments were conducted, and the raw data was analyzed by applying Affymetrix GCOS software. A large number of genes showed significant up- and down-regulations in dor-drought versus control without drought treatment (CK), and wild type-drought versus CK, separately. We further did a comparison for difference between dor mutant and wild type under drought conditions. The fold change for dor-drought/CK versus wild type-drought/CK was calculated. First, ABA biosynthesis and signal transduction pathway-related gene expression in the GeneChip were investigated. Second, we found that some of the significantly changed genes were also identified in the guard cells under an ABA treatment experiment (CITATION). We listed the top candidate genes in Table I. The ATH1 GeneChip data for the dor mutant analysis has been submitted to the public microarray database under the accession number GSE10643 (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/geo/). Thermal imaging of drought-stressed plantlets was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, plantlets were first grown under well-watered conditions (21°C, 60%–70% relative humidity [RH], 16-h photoperiod) for approximately 1 week. Drought stress then was initiated by withholding watering and transferring the pots to a drier atmosphere (24°C, 50% RH, 16-h photoperiod). Thermal images were obtained using a Thermacam PM250 infrared camera (Inframetrics). Images were saved on a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card and were analyzed subsequently on a Macintosh computer using version 1.56 of the public domain image-analysis program, NIH Image (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). Stomatal closing assays were conducted as described previously (CITATION). Rosette leaves were floated in a solution containing 50 μm CaCl2, 10 mm KCl, 10 mm MES [2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid]-Tris, pH 6.15, and exposed to light (150 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h. Subsequently, ABA was added to the solution to assay for stomatal closing. After ABA treatment for 2 h, stomatal apertures were measured as described previously (CITATION). Values are means ± ses (n = 50). Histochemical location of GUS activities in the transgenic plants was analyzed after incubating tissues in 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid buffer (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, and 2 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl glucuronide) at 37°C for 12 h and subsequently cleared in a transparent liquid medium (85% lactic acid, chloral hydrate, phenol, clove oil, xylene; weight ratio is 2:2:2:2:1). GUS images were taken with an Olympus BX-RFA fluorescence microscope. Drought stress was treated by the method of CITATION. In brief, plants grown on Murashige and Skoog plates for 21 d and were exposed to 30% RH for 10 h. The leaves of drought stress and unstressed control were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground into powder. One gram of the tissue was suspended in 10 mL of extraction solution containing 80% methanol, 100 mg/L butylated hydroxytoluene, and 0.5 g/L citric acid monohydrate. The suspension was stirred overnight at 4°C and centrifuged at 1,000g for 20 min. The supernatant was transferred to a new tube and dried under vacuum. The dry residue was dissolved with 500 μL of Tris-buffered saline (50 mm Tris, 0.1 mm MgCl2·6H2O, and 0.15 m NaCl, pH 7.8). ABA concentration in the solution was then determined using the Phytodetek ABA immunoassay kit (Idetek). We obtained the dor/abi1-1 homozygous mutant lines by crossing abi1-1 into dor. F2 plants were screened by PCR amplification with the DOR-specific primers of 5′-CAAGCAATGCTTCAAAGCAGAGGG ATGG-3′ and 5′-AGGGTTACATATCGCCGAGAC-3′; the segregation ratio was about 9:3:4. The homozygous dor plants, which had been confirmed by DNA blot (Supplemental Fig. S1), were further confirmed by direct sequencing of the ABI1 loci. The primers of abi1-1 were 5′-GGAATCAGCAGCTGCTGATATAGTCGT-3′ and 5′-TCTCCGAGTCAACTCTCAGGAACGAG-3′. Twenty-one-day-old seedlings of wild type and dor (treated with or without 30% polyethylene glycol 6000 for 5 h) were homogenized with extraction buffer (0.2 m Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 4% SDS, and 25% glycerol). The samples were boiled and analyzed by immunoblotting with the PLDα1 Antibody (a gift from Wenhua Zhang, Nanjing Agricultural University, People's Republic of China) and a mouse monoclonal anti-tubulin Ab (Sigma) as described previously (CITATION). The coding sequence of the DOR gene was introduced to pGBKT7 bait plasmid (CLONTECH) to produce a fusion protein with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain, and 17 ASK cDNA (ASK1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, and 19) were inserted into pGADT7 prey plasmid containing the GAL4 activation domain (CITATION). Yeast transformation, growth conditions, and assays for β-galactosidase activity were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (CLONTECH). DOR-TAPa and TAPa seedlings (5 g FW) grown in agar under a long-day condition (16 h light, 8 h dark) at 22°C were ground in liquid nitrogen, thawed in 2 volumes of extraction buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail; Roche), filtered through four layers of cheesecloth, and centrifuged at 12,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). Extracts containing similar amounts of total protein were incubated with 500 μL IgG beads for 6 h at 4°C with gentle rotation. Elution from the IgG beads was performed by the protocol of IgG Sepharose 6 Fast Flow (Amersham Biosciences). All the steps in the purification procedure were carried out at 4°C. Proteins in each fraction were separated on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Protein bands were visualized, independently, by immunoblotting using the Arabidopsis CUL1 antibody (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number NM-128704. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Southern-blot analyses of the dor mutant. Supplemental Figure S2. Molecular analyses of the DOR rescued lines. Supplemental Figure S3. The overexpression line Rescued dor-1S enhances transpiration under drought stress. Supplemental Figure S4. RWC in leaves of dor and wild-type plants was measured 0 and 10 h after drought stress. Supplemental Figure S5. qRT-PCR analysis of RAB18 expression in response to 100 μm ABA in wild-type (Ler), wild-type (Col), dor, dor/abi1-1, and abi1-1 seedlings. Supplemental Figure S6. ABA-induced stomatal closure in dor/pldα1. Supplemental Figure S7. qRT-PCR confirmation of the GeneChip expression data for three selected genes. Supplemental Figure S8. qRT-PCR analyses of the expression of RAB18, RD29A, and NCED3 at indicated intervals from the detached leaves of dor and wild-type plants. Supplemental Figure S9. DOR promoter∷GUS expression in pollen.
