!~ABS~! Peroxisomes play key roles in energy metabolism, cell signaling, and plant development. A better understanding of these important functions will be achieved with a more complete definition of the peroxisome proteome. The isolation of peroxisomes and their separation from mitochondria and other major membrane systems have been significant challenges in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) model system. In this study, we present new data on the Arabidopsis peroxisome proteome obtained using two new technical advances that have not previously been applied to studies of plant peroxisomes. First, we followed density gradient centrifugation with free-flow electrophoresis to improve the separation of peroxisomes from mitochondria. Second, we used quantitative proteomics to identify proteins enriched in the peroxisome fractions relative to mitochondrial fractions. We provide evidence for peroxisomal localization of 89 proteins, 36 of which have not previously been identified in other analyses of Arabidopsis peroxisomes. Chimeric green fluorescent protein constructs of 35 proteins have been used to confirm their localization in peroxisomes or to identify endoplasmic reticulum contaminants. The distribution of many of these peroxisomal proteins between soluble, membrane-associated, and integral membrane locations has also been determined. This core peroxisomal proteome from nonphotosynthetic cultured cells contains a proportion of proteins that cannot be predicted to be peroxisomal due to the lack of recognizable peroxisomal targeting sequence 1 (PTS1) or PTS2 signals. Proteins identified are likely to be components in peroxisome biogenesis, β-oxidation for fatty acid degradation and hormone biosynthesis, photorespiration, and metabolite transport. A considerable number of the proteins found in peroxisomes have no known function, and potential roles of these proteins in peroxisomal metabolism are discussed. This is aided by a metabolic network analysis that reveals a tight integration of functions and highlights specific metabolite nodes that most probably represent entry and exit metabolites that could require transport across the peroxisomal membrane.
!~RES~! An organellar fraction consisting mainly of mitochondria and peroxisomes was obtained from disrupted Arabidopsis protoplasts using differential centrifugation and density gradient purification. FFE was then employed to separate peroxisomes from the bulk of mitochondrial material. We have demonstrated previously that FFE is able to increase the purity of mitochondrial isolates by separating them from plastids and peroxisomes according to differences in the surface charge of each organelle, yielding mitochondria that have seven times less contamination (CITATION). Under the conditions applied, mitochondria, peroxisomes, and other cellular material migrated close together in FFE, but with different degrees of overlap (CITATION). The electrophoretic mobility of peroxisomes was lower than that of mitochondria at 600 V (Fig. 1A ). In order to optimize FFE for the isolation of Arabidopsis peroxisomes, a higher voltage (800 V) was applied to increase the separation between the mitochondrial and peroxisomal fraction peaks (Fig. 1B). The distribution of mitochondria and peroxisomes was monitored using immunodetection of marker proteins. At 600 V, the mitochondrial fraction marker protein, HSP70, peaked in fraction 44, while the peroxisomal marker, KAT2, peaked in fraction 48, but the distributions were overlapping. By expanding the distributions at 800 V, both mitochondrial and peroxisomal signals moved further toward anodic fractions, revealing two mitochondrial subpopulations with different electrophoretic mobilities peaking between fractions 21 to 23 and fractions 29 to 31. Meanwhile, the peak fractions enriched in peroxisomes were nearly 10 fractions away, in fractions 39 to 45, and devoid of visible mitochondrial contamination. While this higher voltage did tend to lead to greater losses of KAT2 signal into the anodic mitochondrial fractions than was apparent at 600 V (Fig. 1A), the displacement of the bulk of mitochondria from peroxisomes was optimal for the preparation of peroxisomes. Using this approach, peroxisomal and mitochondrial samples with only minimal amounts of contamination were obtained by selecting the central three fractions of each distribution at 800 V to ensure the best compromise between yield and purity. In order to produce a highly enriched mitochondrial sample for comparative functional assays against the peroxisomal fraction, the mitochondria were then subjected to another round of FFE at 600 V (i.e. repeating the separation in Fig. 1A) to separate them from contaminating plastids, which migrated into the left border of the separation chamber and therefore were not resolved well from the mitochondria at 800 V (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Measurement of catalase activity as a marker for peroxisomes gave an oxygen production rate of 60 μmol min−1 in pre-FFE organelle pellets (Supplemental Table S1A), which was approximately 20% of total cellular extract activity. Total catalase activity was approximately 15 μmol min−1 in the FFE-purified peroxisome fraction, which is approximately 23% of the activity in pre-FFE organelle pellets and approximately 4% of total cellular extract activity. This degree of recovery is similar to that shown in preparations of leaf peroxisomes from Arabidopsis when following hydroxypyruvate reductase activity (CITATION). To quantify the difference between mitochondrial and peroxisome fractions, catalase and succinate dehydrogenase activities were measured as marker enzymes (Supplemental Table S1A). The specific activity of catalase was much higher in the putative peroxisomal fraction than in the pre-FFE or mitochondrial sample, indicating clear enrichment of peroxisomes in this fraction. At the same time, the specific activity of succinate dehydrogenase in the putative peroxisomal fraction was only approximately 8% of that measured in the mitochondrial sample. Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained SDS gel lanes of a pre-FFE organellar sample compared with post-FFE samples of pooled peroxisomes and mitochondria fractions are shown in Figure 1C. While the banding pattern of the pre-FFE sample was very similar to that of the mitochondrial fraction, the putative peroxisomes displayed a distinct pattern with very little resemblance to the other two samples. Therefore, we concluded that the pre-FFE fraction contained mostly mitochondria and only a limited proportion of other organelles, whereas the putative peroxisomal fraction was largely free of mitochondrial proteins. Abundant protein bands present in the mitochondrial and peroxisomal samples were excised from one-dimensional (1D) gels for identification by MS (Fig. 1C, annotations on gel lanes). The primary protein identification for each spot is summarized in Supplemental Table S1B, supporting these as purified mitochondrial and peroxisomal fractions derived from FFE. Subsequent quantitative proteomic analysis (see below) allowed the quantification of a series of classical peroxisomal and mitochondrial markers between the two fractions. This shows an average ratio of 0.14 for mitochondrial proteins in the peroxisomal compared with the mitochondrial samples and approximately 70-fold enrichment for peroxisomal proteins in the peroxisomal compared with mitochondrial samples (Fig. 1D). In general agreement, the succinate dehydrogenase specific activity in the peroxisomes was one-twelfth of that in the mitochondrial sample (18 ± 1 versus 231 ± 45 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1 protein), and the catalase specific activity was approximately 30-fold higher in the peroxisome sample (13.7 ± 1.7 versus 513 ± 181 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1 protein; Supplemental Table S1A). Based on these specific activity measurements and protein ratios, we estimated the approximate peroxisome purity as 85% to 90%. This is based on mitochondria being the largest contaminant in the peroxisome preparations and this mitochondrial contamination being 8% to 14% (based on Fig. 1D and Supplemental Table S1A). Also, the catalase specific activity in the mitochondrial fraction is only 3% of that in the peroxisome fraction, so the at least approximately 30-fold increase in catalase and other peroxisome markers indicates that approximately 90% of the protein in the peroxisome fraction should be of peroxisomal origin. An in-depth analysis of the proteins in each fraction was obtained by two-dimensional differential in gel electrophoresis isoelectric focusing (DIGE 2D IEF/SDS-PAGE) using three independent peroxisomes and mitochondria preparations. Figure 2 shows the false-colored spot intensity maps for both organelle fractions (top) as well as a superimposition of the two spot maps for one of the three gel sets. The amount of overlap between the two samples is low, and two clearly distinct patterns can be observed. While the mitochondrial pattern is focused around pI values between 5 and 8 and resembles that of a previously published study using the same material (CITATION), the distribution of the peroxisomal pattern is heavily skewed toward the basic side of the pI spectrum. This shift to basic pI can also be observed on 2D gels of leaf peroxisome proteins (CITATION). Many peroxisome protein spots of high abundance have very high pI values, and a considerable number did not even reach their pI on the pH 3 to 10 nonlinear immobilized pH gradient strips but migrated right to the cathode. The basic nature of many peroxisome proteins may be related to the typically alkaline nature (pH 8–8.5) of the peroxisome lumen (CITATION). Quantification of mitochondrial and peroxisomal spot intensities from all three gel sets was performed using the DeCyder software package (GE Healthcare). In total, 1,019 matched spots were found consistently across the three sets. Spots with P ≤ 0.05 and an average ratio of 2 or greater (mitochondria-peroxisomes) were designated as mitochondrial, and those with an average ratio of 2 or greater (peroxisomes-mitochondria) were designated as peroxisomal. On average, the peroxisome-mitochondria ratio was approximately 37 for selected putative peroxisomal protein spots, while the average mitochondria-peroxisome ratio was approximately 5 for selected putative mitochondrial protein spots. Spots from a preparative gel were matched with those on the DIGE gels. Prominent peroxisomal and mitochondrial spots matched to the DIGE gels (Supplemental Fig. S1) were excised for tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) identification. In total, 136 unique proteins were identified from this gel (Supplemental Table S2). [[FIGURE]] As a complement to the gel-based approaches, reverse-phase HPLC separation coupled with MS/MS was used to gain additional depth in the whole peroxisome proteome. Four 60-min Intelligent Data-Dependent Acquisition (IDDA) runs of the same sample were conducted in series, with peptides identified in each run subsequently excluded from MS/MS acquisition in the next run. This analysis was performed on the same peroxisomal sample used for the 2D gels containing 8% to 10% mitochondria (high purity) and also on a second sample containing twice the amount of mitochondrial contamination (21%; low purity) as deduced from the respiratory assays. In cases in which a protein was identified in both samples, the comparison of (1) the emPAI values (which is the exponentially modified ratio of the observed peptides over the number of peptides that can theoretically be observed) and (2) the difference in a protein's MOWSE score between the samples was taken as a semiquantitative indicator for localization of a protein. Proteins with a higher emPAI value or a higher MOWSE score in the high-purity sample are putative peroxisomal proteins, and those that produced higher values in the low-purity sample are putative contaminants. In cases in which a protein was identified in only the high-purity sample, this has been considered to be an indication of a higher abundance of the protein in that sample. A total of 135 proteins were identified in the high-purity sample and 209 in the low-purity sample, with an overlap of 93 between both fractions (Supplemental Table S4). DIGE and the MS-derived quantitative data (emPAI and MOWSE difference measures) form an important part of our final assessment of the peroxisomal proteome (see below). Sequence information for proteins identified by only a single but significant peptide is given in Supplemental Data Set S2. Three suborganellar fractions were prepared from whole peroxisomes by repeated freeze/thaw cycles, followed by centrifugation in order to separate soluble and membrane proteins. Isolation of integral membrane proteins was achieved by sodium bicarbonate stripping of an aliquot of the membrane proteins. A total of 40 μg of protein from the soluble and complete membrane fractions was separated by 1D SDS-PAGE, whereas only 5 μg could be loaded from the integral membrane fraction due to the limited amount of material available. The gel reveals distinct differences in the protein banding patterns between the peroxisomal subfractions (Fig. 3 ). Based on the protein quantitation (data not shown), we estimate that the integral proteins account for about 5% of the whole membrane fraction protein content. Spots from the bands indicated in Figure 3 were excised, digested, and analyzed by liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS. From 65 gel bands, a total of 94 unique proteins were identified using this approach (Supplemental Table S3A). Double SDS-PAGE (dSDS-PAGE) separation of 50 μg of the membrane fraction and 5 μg of the integral membrane fraction was also performed (Supplemental Fig. S2). The dSDS gel system has an increased resolution compared with conventional SDS-PAGE because proteins are separated not only by size but also, to a limited extent, by their hydrophobicity (CITATION). Therefore, it is well suited for the separation of membrane proteins. A set of 49 spots from both gels were cut out, and the identities of 68 proteins were derived from tandem MS analysis (Supplemental Table S3B). Unfortunately, a DIGE approach was not feasible for quantification of the membrane proteins in these two approaches. This is due to the limited resolution inherent to SDS-PAGE gels compared with IEF/SDS-PAGE, which often leads to the identification of more than one protein in a band. Therefore, even if the quantitative analysis of a 1D DIGE gel could indicate a difference in protein abundance, it would be impossible to determine the protein responsible for the change. To complement the 1D and 2D SDS gels, a carbonate-stripped membrane sample of the high-purity peroxisomal fraction was also analyzed by IDDA-MS/MS for the detection of further integral membrane proteins. This analysis resulted in the identification of 89 proteins (Supplemental Table S5). We also used a phosphopeptide enrichment strategy from organelle peptide preparations to identify phosphopeptides from peroxisome proteins; the one significant match was a Ser phosphopeptide for one of the membrane proteins, PMP38 (At2g39970), at Ser-155 (Supplemental Data Set S3). [[FIGURE]] Several hundred unique proteins were identified in the analyses noted above. While the quantitative proteomics data provided evidence to validate or invalidate peroxisomal location in many cases, a selection of proteins for which this analysis was not clear was further verified in vivo on the basis of the transient expression of fluorescent fusion proteins. For this purpose, proteins carrying a GFP5 insertion 10 to 13 amino acids from their C terminus, to allow targeting by N- and C-terminal sequences and the influence of the mature protein sequence on targeting (CITATION), were compared with red fluorescent protein (RFP) fused to the 10 C-terminal amino acids of the PTS1-containing pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima) malate synthase. Four proteins (At1g54340, At3g12800, At4g05530, and At4g14430) were used as controls. These were found by our MS analysis and had each previously been documented to be in leaf peroxisomes by GFP and MS (CITATION; Table I ). As our GFP data were completely convergent with these localizations, a range of additional proteins were selected for analysis (Supplemental Data Set S1). This list does not include all of the proteins with ambiguous localization data; rather, it merely focuses on those for which clarification, in our view, would be most beneficial. Nonredundant list of proteins found in peroxisomes after removal of contaminants based on quantification The identities of proteins were determined by MS/MS; the predicted molecular mass (MW) of the match is shown along with the best MOWSE score (P < 0.05 when score > 37), number of peptides and sequence coverage (Seq. Cov.), and the number of times this identification was made (No. Exp.) across the series of experiments performed. Localization of proteins within peroxisomes can be deduced from subfractionation of organelles (Mem = membrane fraction, Sol = soluble fraction, Whole = whole organelles). Quantitative assessments presented in detail in Supplemental Tables S2, S4, and S5 are presented in the DIGE column (P = higher in peroxisome sample, M = higher in mitochondria sample, P/M = both localizations possible) and the MS High versus Low column (MOWSE score in high-purity compared with low-purity samples, with the sample with the organelle [P or M] with the greater score displayed). Similarly, the largest emPAI score based on the number of peptides matched in the high-purity versus low-purity samples is indicated by High or Low in the emPAI column, and independent GFP localization data (presented as images in Supplemental Data Set S1) were used to designate location in the GFP column. Further columns indicate the presence of PTS1 or PTS2 sequences, predicted number of transmembrane domains (TMs), previous identifications of each protein in published peroxisome proteomes, and the new proteins unique to this analysis. Asterisks indicate where a single peptide with a score above but approaching the threshold was used for identification; spectra and detailed interpretation are provided in Supplemental Data Set S2. For four of these proteins (At5g11520, At1g65520, At1g49670, and At5g27520), the GFP localization confirmed peroxisomal location, and no previous GFP data have been reported, to our knowledge. Three of them have recognizable PTS1 and PTS2 sequences, while At5g27520 lacks a recognizable PTS and appears to be a six-transmembrane domain carrier family protein (Fig. 4A ). Accordingly, the fluorescence of the At5g27520-GFP construct appears ring like, surrounding the matrix-targeted RFP-SRL. [[FIGURE]] Five targets had been previously reported to localize GFP to other cell compartments (At3g02360, cytosol [CITATION]; At5g42020, ER [CITATION]; At4g29130, mitochondria [CITATION]; At5g58070, vacuole [CITATION]; and At4g16210, unclear [CITATION]). However, these earlier reports had used terminal GFP fusions, which frequently localize differentially depending on the terminus to which GFP is fused (CITATION). For example, At3g02360 is localized solely to the cytosol when the whole protein is fused to the C terminus of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (CITATION) but is found to be present in peroxisomes by internal GFP fusion of the whole protein (Fig. 4B). The other reported locations were confirmed, except for At5g58070, which did not allow for a confident positive assignment of location based on the internal fusion (data not shown). A set of 14 other proteins analyzed by internal GFP fusion to supplement quantitative proteomic data (At1g02930, At1g07920, At1g44575, At1g44820, At2g16060, At1g77120, At2g17265, At3g52190, At4g00390, At4g29130, At5g19760, At5g43190, At5g43940, and At5g46710) could not be assigned to peroxisomes by GFP and are most likely mitochondrial, cytosolic, plastidic, nuclear, or vacuolar contaminants (Supplemental Data Set S1). Within our list of identified proteins, 14 appeared to be major ER proteins (Table II ). These proteins were considered to be of special interest, as connections between the ER and the peroxisomes in relation to peroxisomal protein import have been reported previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). One of the proteins detected was calreticulin. The distribution of calreticulin across the 800-V separations used for peroxisomal purification reveals enrichment of the antibody signal in the same lanes as the peroxisomes (Fig. 5A ), indicating either the comigration of ER components with peroxisomes during FFE or the presence of calreticulin in these organelles. Analysis of the DIGE 2D IEF/SDS-PAGE data revealed that many of the ER proteins reported in Table II, including three isoforms of calreticulin, were enriched in the peroxisome sample relative to the mitochondrial sample (Fig. 5B), consistent with the enrichment in peroxisomal fractions seen with the calreticulin antibodies (Fig. 5A). Nonredundant list of probable ER proteins found in peroxisomal samples but removed on the basis of our GFP data (Supplemental Data Set S1) and previous proteomics reports on ER samples The identities of proteins were determined by MS/MS; the predicted molecular mass (MW) of the match is shown along with the best MOWSE score (P < 0.05 when score > 37), the number of peptides and sequence coverage (Seq. Cov.), and the number of times this identification was made (No. Exp.) across the series of experiments performed. Localization of proteins within peroxisomes can be deduced from subfractionation of organelles (Mem = membrane fraction, Sol = soluble fraction, Whole = whole organelles). Quantitative assessments presented in detail in Supplemental Tables S2, S4, and S5 are presented in the DIGE column (P = higher in peroxisome sample, M = higher in mitochondria sample, P/M = both localizations possible) and the MS High versus Low column (based on the MOWSE score in high-purity compared with low-purity sample, with the sample with the greater score displayed in the column). New GFP localization data are shown in Our GFP (presented as images in Supplemental Data Set S1). Literature reports of these proteins in subcellular locations based on GFP data (Cyt, cytosol; Mito, mitochondria; Nuc, nucleus; P-Mem, plasma membrane; Plast, plastid; Vac, vacuole), MS data, or in protein name annotations are shown in the last three columns; these data were sourced from the SUBA database (www.suba.bcs.uwa.edu.au). [[FIGURE]] Eleven of the 14 proteins suspected to be ER proteins (At1g08450, At1g09210, At1g21750, At1g56340, At2g47470, At4g15955, At4g24190, At5g28540, At5g42020, At5g60640, and At5g61790) were analyzed by internal GFP fusions. Besides their obvious ER location, none of them could be positively localized to peroxisomes (Table II; Supplemental Data Set S1). However, it became apparent from the analysis of the fluorescent images that some sort of interaction between the ER and the peroxisomes might exist. Frequently, peroxisomes appear to be heavily embedded in the ER, with the fluorescence intensity peaking at the ER-peroxisome border (e.g. calreticulin, BIP, and protein disulfide isomerase; Fig. 5C), but so far it is unclear whether this is a result of a higher ER density in this area or a higher concentration of the fusion protein. To ensure maximum depth in protein analysis, multiple strategies employing gel and nongel separation of proteins and peptides were used in our analysis. Quantitative or semiquantitative measurement of the abundance of proteins was obtained using DIGE fluorescence measurements from highly purified peroxisome versus purified mitochondrial samples and the ratio of MOWSE scores, or emPAI (CITATION), in the nongel LC-MS/MS experiments of high-purity peroxisomal versus low-purity peroxisomal samples. These provided data to discriminate peroxisomal proteins from potential contaminants. Altogether, 250 unique proteins were identified in the course of this study. All of them were assessed by a series of factors to define the final proteome set. These include the quantitative data generated in this study, our and other GFP data, as well as previous reports of subcellular localization from other proteome studies. Additionally, all proteins identified from gels and the liquid phase analysis were examined for the presence or absence of known PTS1 and PTS2 sequences according to the AraPerox database (CITATION). In light of these data, we have classified 89 of these proteins as of peroxisomal origin (Table I) and 14 as ER proteins that copurify with peroxisomes (Table II). Subfractionation of the organelles to soluble, peripheral membrane and integral membrane fractions provided suborganelle location information. Hydrophobic proteins are notoriously underrepresented in proteome studies using 2D IEF-SDS approaches. To determine our success rate in the identification of hydrophobic proteins, we used the ARAMEMNON database (CITATION; release 5.0) to predict transmembrane domains in the set of 89 peroxisomal proteins; 16 proteins were predicted to have one or two transmembrane domains, two proteins most probably had three to four transmembrane domains, and four proteins had more than four transmembrane domains. The latter group (At2g39970, At4g04470, At4g39850, and At5g27520) mainly consisted of the proteins listed as transporters or integral membrane proteins in Table I. In order to test if our proteins form an integrated set of functions and to predict if many peroxisomal enzymes are missing from our list, we created a metabolic network using data from the AraCyc database and visualized it with the Cytoscape software package (Version 2.6.0). This was based on the Enzyme Commission (EC) number of all identified proteins as annotated in AraCyc, which links Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI) numbers with EC reactions. A total of 44 of the proteins in our peroxisome set from Table I were assigned EC numbers, making a nonredundant set of 28 enzyme nodes and 64 metabolites. Focusing on the metabolites that represent the substrates, reactants, and products of the network enables us to see points of contact between the different functional categories of proteins and also to predict the need for transporters in the peroxisomal membrane by analysis of the metabolite end points of the network. In the network, colored nodes (rounded squares) represent enzymes in different functional categories, metabolites are shown as small gray circles, while the reaction is shown as connecting lines between the enzymes and metabolite nodes (Fig. 6 ). [[FIGURE]] The result is a structure derived from our proteome discovery strategy that appears as a well-connected single metabolic entity, showing that the different metabolic pathways within this peroxisome proteome are interlinked and that there are no large gaps created by lack of identification of critical enzymes in a sequence. About one-third of the metabolites do not represent starting or end points of a pathway but are considered to be intermediates of peroxisome metabolism by this network. The terminal metabolite nodes of the network are potential substrates to be transported in or out across the peroxisomal membrane via transporters or pores. Many of these metabolites have been reported to be transported, to diffuse freely across peroxisomal membranes, or to be incapable of crossing the peroxisomal membrane, and these are highlighted in Figure 6. The network shows key features of established peroxisome biochemistry. It shows citrate synthase and malate dehydrogenase as key points of contact between β-oxidation and organic acid/amino acid metabolism through CoA/acetyl-CoA and NAD/NADH pools. It also shows that antioxidant defense enzymes operate to detoxify hydrogen peroxide produced by a series of oxidases. The metabolites oxygen, hydrogen peroxide, water, and CoA are the most heavily connected nodes, but removal of these “currency metabolites” (CITATION) does not break the highly interconnected structure of this metabolic network.
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) suspension cell culture has been maintained and subcultured as stated elsewhere (CITATION). Briefly, 20 mL of a 7-d-old cell culture grown in the light was transferred into 100 mL of fresh medium. Starting material for the peroxisome preparation was grown in the dark for 7 d, whereas material used for the maintenance of the culture was incubated in the light for the same period of time. The preparation of the organelles was based on CITATION, with some modifications. Approximately 200 g of cells was used for each preparation. After enzymatic digestion of the cell wall, the resulting protoplasts were disrupted by four strokes in a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer. The homogenization medium contained bovine serum albumin and EDTA as general protease inhibitors; in addition, Complete (Roche Applied Science) protease inhibitor cocktail was used according to the manufacturer's instructions to inhibit Ser, Cys, and metalloproteases. The homogenate was centrifuged at 3,000g for 5 min to remove cell debris. The supernatant was spun at 24,000g for 10 min to concentrate the organelles. However, in order to avoid pelleting of the organelles, the supernatant of the low-speed spin was layered on top of 5 mL of a Percoll cushion (60% [v/v] Percoll, 10 mm MOPS-KOH, pH 7.2). The organelle-containing interphase was taken and diluted 1:1 with wash buffer and loaded onto discontinuous Percoll density gradients consisting of 5 mL of 50% (v/v) Percoll and 25 mL of 25% (v/v) Percoll (bottom to top) in wash buffer. After centrifugation, the mitochondrial/peroxisomal band was found between the 50% (v/v) and the 25% (v/v) Percoll phases. This band was extracted, and the Percoll was removed by three repeated washes in FFE separation buffer. The first two washes were performed using a 60% (v/v) Suc cushion (60% [v/v] Suc, 10 mm MOPS-KOH, pH 7.2) at the bottom of the tubes, again to prevent pelleting of the organelles. The third wash was performed without any cushion, and the organelles were pelleted. After resuspension in a small volume of FFE separation buffer (2 mL), the organelle suspension was slowly homogenized in a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer in preparation for FFE. FFE buffer composition and conditions were similar to those described previously (CITATION) with the exception of the use of either 800 V or 600 V in experiments as indicated. Using the higher voltage, mitochondria and plastids were deflected to such an extent that the plastids were running into the anode stabilization medium, whereas the mitochondria just stayed within the borders of the separation medium. Although a certain amount of mixing between those two organelles occurred, the distance between the mitochondria and the peroxisomes increased, which led to a higher level of purity of the peroxisomal fraction. After visual inspection of the 96-well plate, mitochondrial fractions (contaminated with plastids) and peroxisomal fractions were pooled separately. The mitochondria were then subjected to a second round of FFE at 600 V in order to obtain purer material for the subsequent measurements. Catalase activity was measured using a Clark-type oxygen electrode (Hansatech) as outlined previously (CITATION). Succinate dehydrogenase measurements were performed using a Clark-type oxygen electrode in the presence of 10 mm succinate, 500 nmol of ADP, and 100 nmol of ATP. Fifty micrograms of protein was used for each assay. These techniques were performed according to CITATION. For the preparative 2D gels, 300 μg of protein was used. Primary antibodies to calreticulin (1:1,000; Agrisera), HSP70 (1:2,000; PM003 from Dr. Tom Elton), and KAT2 (1:5,000; CITATION) were visualized with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies (1:10,000) and chemiluminescent detection of the signal. Aliquots of membrane and integral membrane proteins extracted from peroxisome samples were separated according to CITATION on 10% (w/v) Tricine-SDS-PAGE containing 6 m urea. After the migration, gel strips corresponding to each sample were cut and incubated in acidic solution (100 mm Tris, 150 mm HCl, pH < 2). The strips were then loaded on top of a 16% (w/v) Tricine-SDS-polyacrylamide gel. The gap between the strip and the gel was filled with a 10% (w/v) acrylamide mixture. After electrophoresis, the gels were stained with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue. The procedure essentially follows the method outlined by CITATION. A 1-mg organellar protein pellet was solubilized in 100 μL of 8 m urea, 3 mm EDTA, and 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0. The sample was reduced with 25 mm DTT for 1 h at room temperature followed by alkylation of thiols with 50 mm iodoacetamide for 1 h at room temperature. The solution was diluted to approximately 1 m urea with 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, used to hydrate 25 μg of trypsin (Invitrogen), and incubated at 37°C overnight. Peptides were desalted on Bio-Select reverse-phase C18 extraction columns (Grace Vydac) and dried in a vacuum concentrator. Peptides were reconstituted in 400 μL of solution containing 50% (v/v) acetonitrile, 2.5% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), and 20 mg mL−1 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This solution was added to 5 mg of Titanosphere TiO 5 μm (GL Science) equilibrated with 50% (v/v) acetonitrile, 2.5% (v/v) TFA, and 20 mg mL−1 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The slurry was rotated for 30 min at room temperature in a mobicol spin column (MoBiTec), then washed twice with the 50% (v/v) acetonitrile, 2.5% (v/v) TFA, and 20 mg mL−1 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid solution, twice with 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and 0.1% (v/v) TFA, and twice with a 0.1% (v/v) TFA solution. Phosphopeptides were eluted from the Titanosphere chromatographic material using a freshly prepared 0.3 m NH4OH solution. Eluted phosphopeptides were dried in a vacuum desiccator and resuspended in 5% (v/v) acetonitrile and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid prior to analysis. Phosphopeptides were identified in peptide mixture analysis by 6510 Q-TOF LC-MS/MS (Agilent Technologies) as outlined below. Colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained protein spots where cut from gels and destained twice in 10 mm Na2HCO3 with 50% (v/v) acetonitrile. Samples were dried at 50°C before being rehydrated with 15 μL of digestion solution (10 mm NH4CO3 with 12.5 μg mL−1 trypsin [Invitrogen] and 0.01% [v/v] TFA) and incubated overnight at 37°C. Peptides produced from trypsination were twice extracted from gel plugs using 15 μL of acetonitrile. The supernatant was then collected, and plugs were washed twice with 15 μL of 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and 5% (v/v) TFA and combined with the initial supernatant. The pooled extracts were dried by vacuum centrifugation and stored at 4°C before being analyzed by MS using an Agilent XCT Ultra IonTrap (Agilent Technologies) mass spectrometer. The mass spectrometer was fitted with an electrospray ionization (ESI) source equipped with a low-flow nebulizer in positive mode and controlled by Chemstation (Rev B.01.03; Agilent Technologies) and MSD Trap Control software Version 6.1 (Bruker Daltonik). Peptides were eluted from a self-packed Microsorb (Varian) C18 (5 μm, 100 Å) reverse-phase column (0.5 × 50 mm) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 series capillary liquid chromatography system at 10 μL min−1 using a 9-min acetonitrile gradient (5%−60%, v/v) in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid at a regulated temperature of 50°C. The method used for initial ion detection utilized a mass range of 200 to 1,400 mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) with scan mode set to standard (8,100 m/z s−1), ion charge control conditions set at 250,000, and three averages taken per scan. Smart mode parameter settings were employed using a target of 800 m/z, a compound stability factor of 90%, a trap drive level of 80%, and optimize set to normal. Ions were selected for MS/MS after reaching an intensity of 25,000 cps, and two precursor ions were selected from the initial MS scan. MS/MS conditions employed SmartFrag for ion fragmentation, a scan range of 70 to 2,200 m/z using an average of three scans, the exclusion of singly charged ions option, and ion charge control conditions set to 200,000 in ultra scan mode (26,000 m/z s−1). Resulting MS/MS spectra were exported from the DataAnalysis for LC/MSD Trap Version 3.3 (Build 149) software package (Bruker Daltonik) using default parameters and 1,000 compound maxima for AutoMS(n) and compound export. The .mgf files generated were then analyzed as outlined below. Protein samples were also analyzed with a nongel approach, using peptide mixture LC-MS/MS analysis. The protein extracts were digested overnight at 37°C with trypsin (10:1), and insoluble components were removed by centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min. The supernatant was then dried by vacuum centrifugation and stored at 4°C before being analyzed by MS. Samples were analyzed on an Agilent 6510 Q-TOF mass spectrometer (Agilent Technologies) with an HPLC Chip Cube source. The chip consisted of a 40-nL enrichment column (Zorbax 300SB-C18 5 u) and a 150-mm separation column (Zorbax 300SB-C18 5 u) driven by the Agilent Technologies 1100 series nano/capillary liquid chromatography system. Both systems were controlled by MassHunter Workstation Data Acquisition for Q-TOF (Version B.01.02, Build 65.4, Patches 1,2,3,4; Agilent Technologies). Peptides were resuspended in 5% (v/v) acetonitrile and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid and loaded onto the trapping column at 4 μL min−1 in 5% (v/v) acetonitrile and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid with the chip switched to enrichment and using the capillary pump. After the sample volume passed through the enrichment column five times, the chip was then switched to separation and peptides were eluted from the enrichment column and run through the separation column during a 1-h gradient (15% to 60% [v/v] acetonitrile) directly into the mass spectrometer. The mass spectrometer was run in positive ion mode, and MS scans were run over a range of m/z 275 to 1,500 and at four spectra per second. Precursor ions were selected for auto MS/MS at an absolute threshold of 500 and a relative threshold of 0.01, with a maximum of three precursors per cycle, and active exclusion set at two spectra and released after 1 min. Precursor charge-state selection and preference were set to 2+ and then 3+, and precursors were selected by charge and then abundance. Resulting MS/MS spectra were opened in MassHunter Workstation Qualitative Analysis (Version B.01.02, Build 1.2.122.1, Patches 3; Agilent Technologies), and MS/MS compounds were detected by Find Auto MS/MS using default settings. The resulting compounds were then exported as mzdata.xml files and searched as outlined below. Output files were analyzed against an in-house Arabidopsis database comprising ATH1.pep (release 7) from The Arabidopsis Information Resource and the mitochondrial and plastid protein sets (The Arabidopsis Information Resource). This sequence database contained a total of 30,700 protein sequences (12,656,682 residues). Searches from ion trap data were conducted using the Mascot search engine Version 2.1.04 (Matrix Science) utilizing error tolerances of ±1.2 D for MS and ±0.6 D for MS/MS, Max Missed Cleavages set to 1, the Oxidation (M) and Carboxymethyl (C) variable modifications, and the Instrument set to ESI-TRAP and Peptide charge set at 2+ and 3+. Results were filtered using standard scoring, maximum number of hits set to 20, significance threshold at P < 0.05, and ion score cutoff at 0. Searches from Q-TOF data were conducted using the Mascot search engine Version 2.1.04 (Matrix Science) utilizing error tolerances of ±100 ppm for MS and ±0.5 D for MS/MS, Max Missed Cleavages set to 1, the Oxidation (M) and Carboxymethyl (C) variable modifications, and the Instrument set to ESI-Q-TOF and Peptide charge set at 2+ and 3+. Results were filtered using MUDPIT scoring, maximum number of hits set to 20, significance threshold at P < 0.05, and ion score cutoff at 0. Protein matches were only claimed if at least two distinct peptides were detected per protein, resulting in MOWSE scores typically higher than 70 (P < 0.05 significance level is score > 37). Following an initial run as outlined above in peptide mixture analysis, the resulting mzdata.xml files were searched as outlined in “Data Analysis.” The resulting matches were then filtered by an Ion Score setting of 37, and all peptides with ion scores of 37 or greater were exported from MASCOT along with their respective peptide charge into a .csv file. This file was then used to construct an exclusion list, based on peptide (m/z) and charge (z). Isolation width was set to medium approximately 4 m/z, precursor type was set to Exclude, retention time was set to 0, and Δm/z was set to 100 ppm. This table was then loaded into the MassHunter Workstation Data Acquisition for Q-TOF (Version B.01.02, Build 65.4, Patches 1,2,3,4; Agilent Technologies) software, and then the next sample was run. Following the second run, the new list of excluded peptides was added to the previous list and the new list was loaded for the third run. This process was repeated for the fourth run also. Following acquisition of data from all four runs, the resulting mzdata.xml files were concatenated into a single mzdata.xml file using mzdataCombinator Version 1.0.4 (University of Western Australia Centre of Excellence for Computational Systems Biology; http://www.ce4csb.org/software.shtml). The resulting files were then used to search an in-house Arabidopsis database as outlined above. GFP fusions were constructed according to a modification of the fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins (FTFLP) method (CITATION). FTFLP introduces GFP into genomic clones (including native promoters and terminators) in a stretch of hydrophilic amino acids in a position corresponding to approximately 10 amino acids from the C terminus. In its original context, FTFLP is claimed to represent a good first pass for spatial and temporal localization of proteins for which no other information is available (CITATION; CITATION) and is suggested to be a good alternative to constructing both N- and C-terminal fusions (CITATION). CITATION present proof of principle for marker proteins targeted to numerous organelles, including MFP2, which was directed to peroxisomes. A number of studies have specifically used FTFLP to preserve the N-terminal targeting signal and the C-terminal retention motifs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We adapted the method for high-throughput analysis of full-length proteins via a transient expression assay. For many of the proteins examined here, there were either no clear predicted targeting signals or potentially conflicting N- and C-terminal signals. Thus, GFP was still inserted 10 to 13 amino acids from the C terminus, but this was done using coding sequence alone and driven by the 35S promoter for transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) cell epidermal peel and Arabidopsis cell culture. The position of 10 amino acids from the C terminus largely avoids structural and functional protein domains and preserves both N- and C-terminal targeting sequences in full-length proteins (CITATION). The aim of this approach was to avoid masking potential N- or C-terminal targeting signals with GFP and to reduce the chance that blocking the biologically relevant signal might allow cryptic, physiologically meaningless signals to take precedence (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). GFP5 was amplified including adapters as described (CITATION). The portion of the gene corresponding to the N terminus of the protein was amplified using appropriate primers (primers P1 and P2). Templates for amplification were cloned cDNAs if available (ordered from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center if available) or total cDNA. Oligonucleotides P3 and P4, corresponding to the C-terminal 10 to 13 amino acids plus the stop codon of the protein (i.e. 33–42 nucleotides), were synthesized to constitute a template for direct inclusion in a second round of PCR. Primers P1 and P4 included adapters that partially overlapped with attB Gateway cloning sequences, while primers P2 and P3 had adapters that overlapped with those bounding the GFP fragment; the adapters were as described by CITATION. Three-template PCR thus included three overlapping templates (the P1-P2 PCR fragment, GFP, and the P3-P4 oligonucleotides). Three-template PCR products were cloned into Gateway vector pDONR207 and sequenced to check PCR accuracy. The GFP constructs were then introduced into a pGREEN vector modified for Gateway. We used pGREEN0179 containing cauliflower mosaic virus 2× 35S promoter and cauliflower mosaic virus terminator with the Gateway A cassette inserted between them in the SmaI site of the pGREEN multiple cloning site. For colocalization studies, pGREEN0049-RFP-SRL (CITATION) was used as a peroxisomal marker. Plasmids were precipitated onto 1-μm gold particles and biolistically transformed into Arabidopsis cultured cells or onion epidermal peel as described by CITATION. Fluorescence images were obtained using an Olympus BX61 epifluorescence microscope with HQ GFP (U-MGFPHQ) and RFP (U-MRFPHQ) filters and CellR software. Alternatively, a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS multiphoton confocal microscope was used with laser excitation of GFP at 488 nm and RFP at 561 nm. Emission collection was in the ranges of 500 to 550 nm and 570 to 700 nm, respectively. Confocal images were captured using Leica confocal software. AraCyc (www.arabidopsis.org/biocyc/; CITATION) is a database of biochemical pathways for Arabidopsis. Over 90% of the pathways in the current release of AraCyc (4.5) have been manually curated with experimental data. Proteins identified in this study were associated with biochemical reactions in AraCyc release 4.5 by downloading from the Plant Metabolic Network FTP server (ftp://ftp.plantcyc.org/Pathways/) the tab-delimited text files “aracyc_compounds.20080611” and “aracyc_dump.20080611.” For each AGI code in Table I, pathway names, EC numbers, and enzyme names that have been associated by AraCyc with that AGI code were extracted from the “aracyc_dump” file. Biochemical reactions and their compounds were extracted from the lines in the “aracyc_compounds” file, which contained both the pathway name and the EC number associated with each AGI code. A total of 44 of the AGI numbers in our peroxisome set shown in Table I were assigned EC numbers in this manner, making a nonredundant set of 28 enzyme nodes and 64 metabolites. It should be noted that multiple distinct reactions, corresponding to differing substrates, can be assigned to a single EC number in AraCyc. These often occur when an EC number occurs in the context of separate biochemical pathways. Therefore, we extracted only those biochemical reactions for which both the EC number and the pathway name matched those associated with an AGI code, to avoid incorporating metabolites that may only be involved in pathways outside of the peroxisome. After the recovery of these data, the set of unique EC numbers and biochemical reactions was parsed to generate a Simple Interaction Format file to represent a metabolic network. The Simple Interaction Format file and other data, such as AGI codes associated with EC numbers, enzyme names, and node types (enzyme or metabolite), were inputted into the Cytoscape software (Version 2.6.0; CITATION) for network visualization and analysis. Network images were exported from Cytoscape as .svg files, imported into Adobe Illustrator, and modified visually for presentation purposes. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. 2D IEF/SDS-PAGE gels and spots annotated that were analyzed by MS. Supplemental Figure S2. dSDS-PAGE gels and spots annotated that were analyzed by MS. Supplemental Table S1. A, Catalase and succinate dehydrogenase activity assays. B, Gel spot identifications by MS of protein bands from Figure 1C. Supplemental Table S2. Gel spot identifications by MS of gel spots from Supplemental Figure S1 and the corresponding DIGE ratios from Figure 2. Supplemental Table S3. A, Gel band identifications by MS for Figure 3. B, Gel spot identifications by MS for Supplemental Figure S2 (dSDS). Supplemental Table S4. Complex peptide mixture MS analysis by IDDA of digested whole peroxisomes of two different purities. Supplemental Table S5. Complex peptide mixture MS analysis by IDDA of peroxisome membrane sample. Supplemental Table S6. Proteins reported in peroxisomes by CITATION and CITATION, CITATION) but not found in Table I. Supplemental Data Set S1. Images of fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins, supporting Table I and Table II GFP claims. Supplemental Data Set S2. Single peptide mass spectral analysis supporting the data in Table I. Supplemental Data Set S3. Phosphopeptide analysis of PMP38.
