!~ABS~! Flowering plants possess a unique reproductive strategy, involving double fertilization by twin sperm cells (CITATION) . Unlike animal germ lines, the male germ cell lineage in plants only forms after meiosis and involves asymmetric division of haploid microspores, to produce a large, non-germline vegetative cell and a germ cell that undergoes one further division to produce the twin sperm cells (CITATION) . Although this switch in cell cycle control is critical for sperm cell production and delivery, the underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. Here we identify a novel F-box protein of Arabidopsis thaliana, designated FBL17 (F-box-like 17), that enables this switch by targeting the degradation of cyclin-dependent kinase A;1 inhibitors specifically in male germ cells. We show that FBL17 is transiently expressed in the male germ line after asymmetric division and forms an SKP1–Cullin1–F-box protein (SCF) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex (SCFFBL17) that targets the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors KRP6 and KRP7 for proteasome-dependent degradation. Accordingly, the loss of FBL17 function leads to the stabilization of KRP6 and inhibition of germ cell cycle progression. Our results identify SCFFBL17 as an essential male germ cell proliferation complex that promotes twin sperm cell production and double fertilization in flowering plants.
!~RES~! The differential control of cell cycle progression is paramount in patterning development and in the establishment of germ cell populations in animals (CITATION) . This is also apparent in the highly reduced plant male germ cell lineage, in which cell division is promoted or suppressed in unequal daughter cells2 (Supplementary Fig. 1a). The key mechanism underlying cell cycle control is achieved by regulating the activity of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) (CITATION) and male germ cell division requires the conserved CDKA;1 in Arabidopsis (CITATION) . Although cdka;1 mutants show specific arrest of male germ cell proliferation, CDKA;1 is expressed in germ and non-germ cells formed after asymmetric division (CITATION) . Thus, cell-specific modulation of CDKA;1 activity may distinguish germ and non-germ cell cycles. CDKs are controlled by the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of key regulators such as cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs) (CITATION) . SCF complexes are the largest family of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases that facilitate the ubiquitination of proteins targeted for proteasome-dependent degradation (CITATION) , and are critically involved in cell cycle control and diverse developmental processes with various substrate-specific F-box proteins (CITATION) . The Arabidopsis genome contains hundreds of F-box proteins (CITATION) , indicating the existence of a large array of SCF complexes. Yet, the functions of only a few F-box proteins have been identified (CITATION) . We identified a T-DNA mutant in the F-BOX-LIKE17 (FBL17) gene that encodes a protein with an amino terminus F-box motif and 12 leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) in the carboxy terminus (Supplementary Fig. 2). Subsequent analysis revealed that fbl17 mutants displayed remarkably similar phenotypes to cdka;1 mutants (CITATION) . We could not obtain homozygous progeny (n = 1,999), and heterozygous fbl17/+ plants showed no noticeable phenotypic defects. In cdka;1 mutants, the single male germ cell preferentially fertilizes the egg cell to initiate embryo development, leading to endosperm failure and embryo abortion (CITATION) . Similar to cdka;1 mutants, the male transmission of fbl17 was almost completely blocked (Table 1) and heterozygous fbl17/+ plants produced 42% of seeds (n = 278) that contained arrested embryos with no or limited endosperm development (Fig. 1a–d, Supplementary Fig. 3, Supplementary Table 1). The pollen phenotype in fbl17 mutants also closely resembled that observed in cdka;1 mutants. Early pollen development in fbl17/+ plants was normal (Fig. 1e–i), but 47.2% of pollen (n = 720) failed to undergo germ cell division and contained a single male germ cell (Fig. 1j–o). Moreover, the fbl17 mutant pollen phenotype was rescued by introduction of the wild-type FBL17 gene (Fig. 1m), demonstrating the requirement for FBL17 in male germ cell division. [[FIGURE]] To determine when during the cell cycle fbl17 germ cells arrest, we measured nuclear DNA content in mature pollen from fbl17/+ plants. fbl17 germ cells have an average DNA content of 1.52C (where 1C is the DNA content of a haploid cell), similar to the average DNA content of mature sperm cells (CITATION) (Fig. 1p). The incomplete S phase in fbl17 germ cells is similar to that observed in cdka;1 germ cells (CITATION) . Moreover, the germline-specific nuclear marker DUO1::H2B-mRFP1 that is expressed in twin sperm cells in wild-type pollen (CITATION) is expressed in fbl17 germ cells (Fig. 1q, r). Thus, arrested fbl17 germ cells have male germ cell characteristics and are functionally differentiated in a similar fashion to cdka;1 germ cells (CITATION) . The remarkably similar phenotypes of fbl17 and loss-of-function cdka;1 mutants (CITATION) suggested a possible connection between FBL17 and CDKA;1 activity in germ cells. In yeast and animals, the SCF complex is a critical component of a canonical mechanism controlling cell division by targeting CKIs for proteasome-dependent degradation (CITATION) . We showed that the F-box domain of FBL17 was both necessary and sufficient for binding to the Skp1 homologue ASK1 in yeast (Supplementary Fig. 4); and using plant cell extracts we showed that both FBL17 and Cullin1 were pulled down with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged ASK1 (Fig. 2a). These results suggest that FBL17 forms an SCF complex in plant cells, consisting of ASK1, Cullin1 and FBL17. The Arabidopsis genome contains seven CKIs designated Kip-related proteins (KRPs), which can bind to CDKA;1 and inhibit its activity at least in vitro (CITATION) . Among these only KRP4, KRP6 and KRP7 showed clear binding to FBL17 in yeast (Supplementary Fig. 5a) that was mediated through the LRR domain (Fig. 2b, c). In contrast to KRP4, which was not expressed in developing pollen, KRP6 and KRP7 showed enhanced expression in bicellular pollen similarly to FBL17 (Supplementary Fig. 5b) and were further investigated as candidate targets of FBL17. [[FIGURE]] Further support for the hypothesis that KRP6 and KRP7 may be in vivo substrates of FBL17 is provided by binding of N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)–FBL17 to C-terminal YFP–KRP6 and KRP7 in bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in transfected protoplasts (Fig. 2d). In addition, in co-immunoprecipitation assays haemagglutinin (HA)-tagged FBL17 was pulled down in extracts of transfected protoplasts by GFP-tagged KRP6 and KRP7, demonstrating in vivo interaction of FBL17 and these KRPs (Fig. 2e). We also examined whether KRP6 and KRP7 are degraded through a proteasome-dependent pathway. When recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins GST–KRP6 or GST–KRP7 were incubated with crude extracts from floral buds of wild-type plants, their abundance decreased during incubation. However, the rate of decrease was reduced by treatment with the proteasome inhibitor, MG132, indicating that degradation of KRP6 and KRP7 is dependent on 26S proteasome activity (Fig. 2f). In other studies on F-box proteins, a reduced degradation rate of target proteins has been shown using F-box knockout lines (CITATION) . Unfortunately, homozygous plants that are null for fbl17 cannot be made because of the lack of male transmission. Therefore, we examined degradation of KRP6 and KRP7 in assays in which GST–KRP fusion proteins were added to extracts from transgenic plants where expression of FBL17 was under the control of the inducer methoxy fenozide (MOF). Even though FBL17 was rapidly degraded in plant extracts, recombinant GST–KRP6 and GST–KRP7 showed relatively modest, but consistent, increases in the rate of degradation when incubated with extracts of MOF-induced transgenic plants (Supplementary Fig. 6). Collectively, these results strongly support the conclusion that FBL17 exists in an SCF complex and provides evidence that this is causally required for degradation of KRP6 and KRP7. FBL17 transcripts are widely expressed in different plant organs (CITATION) and could therefore have other roles in addition to that in male germ cell division. In pollen, however, FBL17 transcripts are present throughout development (Supplementary Fig. 5b), but peak in bicellular pollen, consistent with its role in male germ cell division. To monitor the expression of FBL17 protein during pollen development, we constructed a fusion of full-length FBL17 and GFP under the control of the FBL17 promoter. The fusion protein FBL17–GFP was able to complement the fbl17 mutation and we could observe GFP signal only in the male germ cell nucleus of early to mid bicellular pollen (Fig. 3a). The GFP signal was not detected in uninucleate microspores, or in tricellular or mature pollen; nor was it observed in vegetative cells (Fig. 3a). These results suggest that FBL17 protein transiently accumulates in male germ cells and is degraded before division into the twin sperm cells. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the expression of the candidate FBL17 target proteins, KRP6 and KRP7, in wild-type pollen. We constructed full-length KRP6–GFP and KRP7–GFP fusion proteins under control of their native promoters, and examined their expression in stably transformed plants. KRP6–GFP expression was detectable in microspores and increased strongly in vegetative cell nuclei immediately after asymmetric division (Fig. 3b). KRP7–GFP showed a similar nuclear localization and expression profile, but the GFP signal was significantly weaker and not detectable in microspores or in mature pollen (Supplementary Fig. 7). Both fusion proteins were present in newly formed male germ cells after asymmetric division, but the GFP signal was rapidly turned over and was absent from sperm cells. The degradation of KRP6 and KRP7 in wild-type early male germ cells therefore coincides with the transient expression of FBL17–GFP. In contrast to KRP7–GFP, the highly expressed KRP6–GFP fusion allowed us to monitor KRP6 degradation in the absence of FBL17. When KRP6–GFP fluorescence was examined in pollen from heterozygous fbl17 plants, persistent GFP was detected in the single germ cell in fbl17 pollen (Fig. 3b panel 6). When KRP6–GFP expression was monitored in pollen stained with DAPI to allow direct detection of mutant pollen, persistent GFP was observed in 86% (44/51) of fbl17 mutant germ cells but not in any sperm cells (0/63) in wild-type pollen grains. Thus, KRP6–GFP showed persistent expression in mutant fbl17 germ cell nuclei, while vegetative cell expression was unaffected, consistent with a germ-cell-specific role for FBL17 in the proteasome-dependent turnover of KRP6 (Fig. 3b). The data presented here leads to the following model for the differential control of male germ cell proliferation in flowering plants (Supplementary Fig. 1b); in this model, the canonical SCF-mediated mechanism of cell cycle regulation is being used in unique cellular contexts in different kingdoms (CITATION) . Inhibitors of CDKA;1 activity KRP6 and KRP7 are present in vegetative and germ cells following asymmetric microspore division. Vegetative cell cycle progression is inhibited by persistent KRP expression. However, the transient expression of FBL17 in germ cells promotes germ cell cycle progression through an SCFFBL17 complex that targets the proteolysis of KRP6 and KRP7, enabling CDKA;1 activation and germ cell S-phase progression. But completion of germ cell division at G2/M to form twin sperm cells requires the germline-specific Myb protein DUO1 during G2/M transition (CITATION) . Thus, flowering plants have developed parallel regulatory mechanisms to control the differential proliferation of germ and non-germ cells and the production of the twin sperm cells that are essential for double fertilization.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col-0) ecotype was the parent strain for mutants and transgenic lines. The fbl17 mutant allele (GABI_170E02) was screened from the GABI-Kat T-DNA population. The genotype at the FBL17 locus and its transmission efficiency (TE) (CITATION) in reciprocal crosses was determined by PCR. Segregation of T-DNA antibiotic resistance markers was assayed by growing seedlings in 0.5×B5 medium containing 5.25 μg ml-1 sulphadiazine (4-amino-N-[2-pyrimidinyl]benzene-sulphonamide-Na). Plants were grown in an environmentally controlled growth room at 22 °C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Nuclei in pollen grains were visualized by DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2 phenylindone) staining and fluorescence microscopy as previously described (CITATION) . Transmission electron microscopy was carried out as described (CITATION) . To monitor the expression of FBL17–GFP, KRP6–GFP and KRP7–GFP, pollen at different stages was teased out of the anther with a needle and mounted in 0.3 M mannitol; mature pollen was released directly into 0.3 M mannitol. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was conducted with a Nikon TE2000E inverted microscope and C1 confocal system using a Melles Griot argon ion laser (emission 488 nm) , detection filter for GFP, and EZ-C1 control and imaging software. For phenotypic characterization of mutant embryos, cleared whole mount seeds were prepared as described (CITATION) and viewed with differential interference contrast microscopy (DIC) on a Nikon TE2000E inverted microscope. Images were captured and processed as described (CITATION) . For complementation analysis, the 5.0 kb DNA fragment containing 1.4 kb of the promoter region, the predicted ORF and 0.7 kb of downstream sequence of FBL17 was amplified by PCR using primers FBL17c-F and FBL17c-R (Supplementary Table 2). The fragment was cloned into the KpnI and SalI sites of the pCAMBIA1300 vector (MRC). Transformed plants were selected on 0.5× B5 medium containing 20 μg ml-1 hygromycin and 5.25 μg ml-1 sulphadiazine. For conditional expression of FBL17, the C. fumiferana EcR-based inducible system was used (CITATION) . For expression of FBL17, KRP6 and KRP7 during pollen development, the full-length DNA fragments were generated by PCR with primer pairs FBL17-F/FBL17-R, KRP6-F/KRP6-R and KRP7-F/KRP7-R, and inserted into a vector containing a GFP-tag with their own promoters, which were amplified with primer pairs promFBL17-F/promFBL17-R, promKRP6-F/promKRP6-R and promKRP7-F/promKRP7-R (Supplementary Table 2). Agrobacterium strain AGL1 harbouring these binary vectors was used for transformation of wild-type or fbl17/+ plants using the floral dip method (CITATION) . The DupLEX-A system (OriGene Technologies) was used. The full-length FBL17 and FBL17 cDNA fragments encoding FBL17F-box (1–175) and FBL17LRR (176–593) were obtained by PCR amplification with primer pairs FBL17-F/FBL17-R, FBL17-F/FBL17F-box-R and FBL17LRR-F/FBL17-R (Supplementary Table 2), and cloned into the both pGilda bait vector and pJG4-5 prey vector, which produce an in-frame fusion with the LexA DNA-binding domain and B42 activation domain, respectively. The full-length ASK1 and KRP coding sequences were amplified with primer pairs ASK1-F/ASK1-R and KRP1∼7-F/KRP1∼7-R (Supplementary Table 2), and fused to the pJG4-5 prey vector and pGilda bait vector, respectively. The yeast strain EGY48 (MATa, trp1, his3, ura3, leu2::6 LexAop-LEU2) that contains the lacZ reporter plasmid pSH18-34 was transformed with the appropriate ‘bait’ and ‘prey’ plasmids. Interactions were tested on 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside (X-gal) media. A β-galactosidase activity assay of the transformants was performed as described (CITATION) . The full-length FBL17 and Cullin1 were generated by PCR amplification with primer pairs FBL17_ha-F/FBL17_ha-R and Cullin1_ha-F/Cullin1_ha-R (Supplementary Table 2), and inserted into a plant expression vector that containing two copies of HA tag driven by the 35SC4PPDK promoter (CITATION) . DNA fragments encoding ASK1, KRP6 and KRP7 were obtained by PCR amplification with primer pairs ASK1_gfp-F/ASK1_gfp-R, KRP6-F/KRP6-R and KRP7-F/KRP7-R (Supplementary Table 2), and fused to GFP coding sequences controlled by the cassava vein mosaic virus promoter (CITATION) . Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from mature leaves of the wild-type plants and transfected with various constructs expressing HA- or GFP-tagged proteins as described (CITATION) . Protoplasts were further incubated overnight at 22 °C under dim light. Cells (0.4 × 105 per sample) were harvested and solubilized with 100 μl 1× immunoprecipitation (IP) buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% SDS, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 50 μM MG132, 1 mM PMSF and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The extracts were centrifuged at 12,000g for 15 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was incubated with 3 μg of agarose-conjugated anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (Santacruz) for 6 h at 4 °C and the pellet fraction was washed four times with washing buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40 and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The protein extracts and immunoprecipitated samples were separated on 10% SDS–PAGE gels, transferred to PVDF membranes, and detected with HRP-conjugated anti-GFP (Santacruz) and anti-HA (Roche) monoclonal antibodies. DNA fragments encoding FBL17, KRP6 and KRP7 were obtained by PCR amplification with primer pairs FBL17_yfpN-F/FBL17_yfpN-R, KRP6_yfpC-F/KRP6_yfpC-R and KRP7_yfpC-F/KRP7_yfpC-R (Supplementary Table 2), and fused to plant expression vector containing either N- or C-terminal fragments of the YFP fluorescent (YFPN and YFPC). Transfected protoplasts were examined with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus FluoView FV1000). For expression analysis of FBL17 and KRP genes during pollen development, total RNA was extracted from 50 mg of isolated spores at each developmental stage using the RNeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen) as described (CITATION) . Samples of 750 ng of total RNA were reverse transcribed using Superscript III RNase H reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). For PCR amplification, 1 μl of a 20× diluted RT mix was used in a 25 μl reaction using Biotaq DNA polymerase (Bioline). The histone H3 gene (At4g40040) was used as a control. The full-length KRP6 and KRP7 cDNAs were amplified by PCR with primer pairs KRP6-F/KRP6-R and KRP7-F/KRP7-R (Supplementary Table 2), respectively, to introduce EcoRI and XhoI restriction enzyme sites. This fragment was inserted into corresponding sites of the pGEX4T-1 vector (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) to generate an in-frame fusion with GST. The plasmid was introduced into Escherichia coli strain BL21-Codon Plus (DE3)-RIL (Stratagene) and E. coli cells were grown to an OD600 of approximately 0.6. Fusion protein expression was then induced with 0.5 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) for 16 h at 18 °C. After centrifugation, the pellets were lysed in 1/10 culture volume of lysis buffer (50 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.2, 150 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100 and protease inhibitor cocktail) and cleared by centrifugation. The GST fusion protein was purified by glutathione sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). All purification steps were performed at 4 °C. The recombinant proteins were then eluted with a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 120 mM NaCl and 10 mM glutathione overnight at 4 °C. To test the effect of the proteasome inhibitor on KRP stability, MG132 (100 μM) or DMSO (1%) was added directly to protein extracts of wild-type floral buds for 2 h before mixing with recombinant GST–KRP proteins. For induction of FBL17–HA protein, VGE::FBL17-HA seedlings were grown on 0.5× B5 medium for 10 days before treatment with 50 μM MOF for 3 days. Seedlings were ground to a fine powder and homogenized at 4 °C in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM PMSF and protease inhibitor cocktail). Crude extracts (∼400 μg) were pretreated with 10 μM MG132 to slow down FBL17 degradation, and mixed with 0.8 μg purified GST–KRP proteins in a total volume of 400 μl and incubated at 4 °C. At each time point 16 μl was removed, heated at 95 °C for 5 min in 4 μl of 5× SDS–PAGE sample buffer and subjected to 10% SDS–PAGE. GST-tagged KRP proteins were detected using peroxidase-conjugated (HRP) anti-GST antibody (Santacruz). The same membrane was stripped and re-probed with anti-HA antibody to detect the induced level of FBL17.
