!~ABS~! It has been known for decades that red light pretreatment has complex effects on subsequent phototropic sensitivity of etiolated seedlings. Here, we demonstrate that brief pulses of red light given 2 h prior to phototropic induction by low fluence rates of blue light prevent the blue light–induced loss of green fluorescent protein–tagged phototropin 1 (PHOT1-GFP) from the plasma membrane of cortical cells of transgenic seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana expressing PHOT1-GFP in a phot1-5 null mutant background. This red light effect is mediated by phytochrome A and requires ∼2 h in the dark at room temperature to go to completion. It is fully far red reversible and shows escape from photoreversibility following 30 min of subsequent darkness. Red light–induced inhibition of blue light–inducible changes in the subcellular distribution of PHOT1-GFP is only observed in rapidly elongating regions of the hypocotyl. It is absent in hook tissues and in mature cells below the elongation zone. We hypothesize that red light–induced retention of the PHOT1-GFP on the plasma membrane may account for the red light–induced increase in phototropic sensitivity to low fluence rates of blue light.
!~RES~! As blue light induces a loss of PHOT1-GFP from the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION), and as red light sensitizes the phototropic response to low fluence rates of blue light, we investigated whether red light treatment would affect the blue light–activated phototropin relocalization we previously described (CITATION; CITATION). We first determined how much blue light is required to saturate the blue light–induced PHOT1-GFP relocalization. Using an external light source, we administered blue light fluences ranging from 20 to 2000 μmol m−2 (given at a constant fluence rate of 20 μmol m−2 s−1 with time varied). We then examined the cortical cells of the elongation region of etiolated hypocotyls of Arabidopsis seedlings using the confocal microscope for any changes in PHOT1-GFP distribution after a 1-h dark period. As shown in Supplemental Figure 1 online, the response was not induced by 200 μmol m−2 (10 s × 20 μmol m−2 s−1) but was clearly detectable after exposure to 600 or 2000 μmol m−2, in agreement with our previous results (CITATION). Thus, when we used an external light source in subsequent experiments instead of the microscope laser, we used 2000 μmol m−2 (20 μmol m−2 s−1 for 100 s) of blue light to make certain that the blue light response was saturated. A time course showing the effect of blue light alone is shown by the projection images in Figure 1A . For this experiment, the blue light source was the laser in the confocal microscope (20 μmol m−2 s−1). At time zero, PHOT1-GFP is relatively evenly distributed at the plasma membranes of these cortical cells from the elongation region of an etiolated Arabidopsis hypocotyl. Within 10 min of the start of blue light irradiation, some reorganization and mottling of the label is evident, and this mottling increases over the course of an hour in all of the cells shown in the field. By 12 min after the onset of blue light, movement of PHOT1-GFP into the cytoplasm can be observed in single optical sections of the cortical cells (Figure 2 ). These results confirm our previous results (CITATION) and provide a control for experiments investigating possible involvement of phytochrome(s) in the phenomenon (see below). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The protein gel blot shown in Supplemental Figure 2 online indicates that a fraction of the PHOT1-GFP released to the cytoplasm on blue light treatment is in the supernatant following centrifugation of seedling extracts for 1 h at 135,000g and is likely soluble. The experiment does not eliminate the possibility that some of the cytoplasmic PHOT1-GFP may still be membrane associated, but the results confirm previous observations by CITATION that a fraction of the released PHOT1-GFP cannot be sedimented under the above conditions. The blue light–induced movement of PHOT1-GFP into the cytoplasm is not a general property of plasma membrane proteins and is not indicative of a major endocytosis. Figure 3 shows the effect of blue light on three fluorescent-labeled plasma membrane proteins: YFP:PIP2 (yellow fluorescent protein:Plasma Membrane Intrinsic Protein 2), an aquaporin; BRI1-GFP (Brassinosteroid-Insensitive 1:green fluorescent protein), a brassinolide receptor; and GFP:SIMIP (Salt Stress-Induced Major Intrinsic Protein), an aquaporin. None of the three marker proteins shows a change in distribution even after 30 min of blue light treatment (20 μmol m−2 s−1) (Figure 3, top and lower left). These results are in sharp contrast with the dramatic effect of the same blue light treatment on PHOT1-GFP (Figure 3, lower right). [[FIGURE]] If a brief pulse of red light (50 μmol m−2) is given 2 h prior to the onset of blue light treatment, these dramatic changes in PHOT1-GFP distribution are almost completely eliminated (Figure 1B, projection images). The slight mottling seen in the red light–treated cells in Figure 1B after blue light treatment stands in sharp contrast with the extensive relocalization response seen without the prior red light treatment (Figure 1A). Thus, red light pretreatment appears to cause retention of PHOT1-GFP at the plasma membrane of these cells. The effect of red light in preventing the movement of PHOT1-GFP into the cytoplasm is illustrated in the single optical sections shown in Figure 4 . The 2-h dark period was chosen as it was the time period used in virtually all of the physiological experiments cited in the Introduction investigating the effect of red light preirradiation on subsequent phototropic responses. [[FIGURE]] To test whether a brief pulse of red light affected phototropism under our growth conditions, we tested the phototropic responses of the PHOT1-GFP, gl1, and phot1-5 lines with or without prior red light treatment (Table 1 ). A 2-h dark incubation period followed the red treatment. In the PHOT1-GFP line, PHOT1-GFP is the only functional phototropin. In the gl1 line, both PHOT1 and PHOT2 are functional. In the phot1-5 line, only PHOT2 is functional. Furthermore, a blue light fluence rate of 1 μmol m−2 s−1 can only activate PHOT1, whereas 20 μmol m−2 s−1 activates both PHOT1 and PHOT2 (CITATION). Effect of Red Light (R) on Subsequent Blue-light (B)-Induced Phototropic Curvature At blue light fluence rates of either 1 or 20 μmol m−2 s−1, red light significantly enhanced the response of the PHOT1-GFP line after both 8 and 11 h exposure (Table 1). When PHOT2 alone is functional (phot1-5, blue light = 20 μmol m−2 s−1) red light treatment also significantly enhanced the phototropic response. The gl1 line irradiated with 1 μmol m−2 s−1 of blue light (11 h) failed to show strong enhancement, possibly because both red light–treated and control seedlings had reached the saturation level for curvature. When the blue light fluence rate was 20 μmol m−2 s−1, some enhancement occurred, although the enhancement was less than seen in the other lines. The phot1-5 line failed to curve in response to 1 μmol m−2 s−1, as it lacked PHOT1, and the fluence rate was too low to activate PHOT2. We conclude that under the conditions we used to demonstrate a red light effect on blue light–induced PHOT1-GFP relocalization, the same red light treatment enhances the phototropic response mediated by PHOT1-GFP (and by PHOT2 alone). Since 50 μmol m−2 (5 μmol m−2 s−1 for 10 s) of red light administered 2 h prior to blue light treatment was sufficient to reduce blue light–induced relocalization dramatically (Figure 1B), we investigated how much dark time was required between red light pretreatment and a blue light pulse for the red light to be effective. PHOT1-GFP relocalization was then allowed to proceed for 20 min in darkness following the blue light pulse (2000 μmol m−2) prior to observation with the confocal microscope. The results are shown in Figure 5 . Red light administered 0, 30, or 60 min prior to blue light was essentially ineffective. In all three cases, blue light induced movement of PHOT1-GFP into the cytoplasm. However, by 2 h after red light treatment, the effect of blue light was eliminated. This effect of red light persisted at least for an additional hour. We next asked how much red light was required to prevent the effect of blue light on the subcellular distribution of PHOT1-GFP in the elongating hypocotyl cells. The results are shown in Figure 6 (constant 10-s exposure time for red light with intensity varied) and Figure 7 (constant fluence rate at 10 μmol m−2 s−1 with time varied). The red light effect was saturated between 40 and 100 μmol m−2 in both experiments. This range is well within that to be expected for a classic low-fluence phytochrome response (CITATION). Furthermore, the reciprocity law (CITATION) holds under these experimental conditions. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] If the effect of red light is indeed a low-fluence phytochrome response, one would expect it to be fully far-red reversible. Indeed, 1260 μmol m−2 of far red completely reversed the effect of red light. Figure 8 shows that the effect of blue light (confocal laser) was diminished if 100 μmol m−2 of red light (administered 2 h before blue) was followed immediately by the far-red treatment (Figure 8, bottom right panel). The appearance of the cells 15 min after the blue light pulse is virtually identical to that of blue light without any red pretreatment (Figure 8, bottom left panel) and essentially indistinguishable from that seen in Figure 2A. As expected, red light alone almost eliminated the blue light response (Figure 8, middle panels). We next investigated how much far-red light is required to reverse the effect of red light. The results are shown in Figure 9 , which presents cells near the bottom of the hypocotyl elongation zone. Far-red light (1260 μmol m−2) was sufficient to reverse the effect of red light (Figure 9, center panel). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Finally, we investigated the time course for escape from far-red reversibility. The results are shown in Figure 10 . Regardless of when far-red light was given, the total dark period was always 2 h. With a 15-min dark period between red and far-red treatment, the effect of far-red light in reversing the red-light effect was diminished, and with a 25-min dark period after red light, far-red light was completely ineffective. Hence, the consequences of red light treatment become fixed relatively rapidly, although they are not fully expressed until 2 h has passed following red light treatment (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] We were puzzled that we did not always obtain an effect of red light in preventing subsequent blue light–induced PHOT1-GFP relocalization. We identified two reasons for this variability: First, if the hypocotyls are handled a little roughly, some PHOT1-GFP relocalization occurred in the absence of any blue light treatment. We solved this problem by mounting the seedlings carefully on agar (see Methods). However, some variability still persisted. The effect of red light in blocking blue light–inducible PHOT1-GFP movement into the cytoplasm had a developmental component. We found that the standard red light fluence had little effect on blue light–induced PHOT1-GFP distribution in the hook (Figure 11A ) or in the mature cells, below the elongation zone (Figure 11C), but prevented the blue light effect in the elongation zone (Figure 11B). It was logistically possible in these experiments to observe two regions from the same seedlings, but not three. Thus, the images shown in the center and bottom panels of Figure 11 were taken from the same seedlings, but those in the top panel were from a different seedling. Experiments shown in Figure 1A indicate that substantial blue light–induced PHOT1-GFP relocalization can be observed well before 30 min from the onset of blue light treatment. However, no effect is detectable after 30 min in the elongation zone cells given prior to red light treatment (Figure 11, center panels). By contrast, by 40 min there is a strong effect of blue light both above and below the elongation zone despite red light pretreatment. Thus, the interaction between phytochrome and PHOT1-GFP develops as cells enter their elongation phase and is lost when they are mature. [[FIGURE]] Since the red light effect is restricted to the hypocotyl elongation zone, we were unable to detect a red light–induced decrease in the level of PHOT1-GFP in the soluble fraction. It is likely that a red-induced decrease in the amount of PHOT1-GFP released to the cytoplasm in the elongation zone in response to blue light treatment would be masked by its blue light–induced release in the cotyledons, hook, and mature hypocotyl tissues, especially given the large amount of PHOT1-GFP detectable in the cotyledons and hook (CITATION). This latter release is unaffected by the red light treatment (see below). We made crosses for plants carrying the PHOT1-GFP transgene in the phot1-5 null background with strong mutant alleles of phyA (phyA-211, CITATION) or phyB (phyB-9, CITATION) and with the phyA-211 phyB-9 double mutant to identify the phytochrome(s) that mediated the red light response described above. The seedlings were given 50 μmol m−2 s−1 of red light, 2 h of darkness, a blue light pulse (total fluence 2000 μmol m−2), and 30 min of darkness prior to observation with the confocal microscope. In the phyB mutant, red light still blocks blue light–induced relocalization of PHOT1-GFP (Figure 12B ), whereas in the phyA mutant, blue light induces normal relocalization despite the prior red light treatment (Figure 12A). As expected from these results, the response of the phyA phyB double mutant is no different from that of the phyA mutant: there is no red light effect (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Thus, the red light–induced inhibition of blue light–activated PHOT1-GFP relocalization from the plasma membrane is mediated by phyA. From following subsequent generations, we identified the three classes of phytochrome mutant lines in which PHOT1-GFP was the only functioning PHOT1. Red light treatment still prevented the blue light–induced relocalization of PHOT1-GFP in the absence of wild-type phot1 (the null phot1-5 allele, CITATION) as long as functional phyA protein was present (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used the phot1-5 mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia ecotype, gl1 background) transformed with PHOT1-GFP, constructed by CITATION. Seeds were surface sterilized and plated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.8% agar and 1% sucrose. The plates were held in darkness for 3 d at 4°C and then exposed to red light (22°C, fluence rate of 15 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h to induce uniform germination. The seedlings were then grown in complete darkness at 22°C for ∼2.5 d. The mutants phyA-211, phyB-9, and phyA-211 phyB-9, kindly provided by Peter H. Quail, were crossed with PHOT1-GFP plants. F2 seeds were selected under red (8 μmol m−2 s−1) or far-red (2 μmol m−2 s−1) light, and seedlings with long hypocotyls were screened for PHOT1-GFP fluorescence. To confirm the phot1-5 mutant background, we performed PCR genotyping with forward primer 5′-GCAGGTACATAGAGCTAGAGC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GCTGTGAGTAATTAGTCCTCC-3′. The phot1-5 mutation deleted the primary site for the forward primer and therefore produced no PCR product. The wild-type PHOT1 gene yielded a PCR product of ∼1.8 kb, while the PHOT1-GFP fusion produced a band of ∼2.4 kb. We selected plants that only produced the 2.4-kb product. The red light source to induce germination consisted of two 20-W red fluorescent tubes (Sylvania F20T12/R) filtered through one layer of Rohm and Haas 2444 red Plexiglas. The red light source used to treat the seedlings was a bank of LEDs (630 nm). The source of far-red light was a 12-V, 20-W tungsten halogen lamp filtered through a Rohm and Haas FRF Plexiglas filter. The different fluence rates used in the individual experiments are provided above. For certain experiments, the source of blue light was the laser in the confocal microscope (488 nm). For other experiments, except phototropism, it was a bank of LEDs (470 nm). Unless otherwise indicated, the fluence rate from blue light sources was 20 μmol m−2 s−1. For phototropism experiments, the blue light sources were either two fluorescent lamps (Philips F20T12/CW), with the light passed through a blue Plexiglas filter (Rohm and Haas) (1 μmol m−2 s−1), or a Kodak Carousel 4400 slide projector equipped with a Corning blue filter (20 μmol m−2 s−1). As mentioned above, even slight physical damage could cause the loss of some PHOT1-GFP from the plasma membrane to the cytoplasm. To avoid this physical damage, a layer of 1.5% agar dissolved in distilled water was allowed to solidify between two cover slips (22 × 22 mm). When it had hardened, the upper cover slip was slid off and the seedlings were gently placed on the remaining agar bed on the lower cover slip. A cover slip was then gently placed over the seedling and the assembly was turned over and transferred to the microscope upside down. Uniform plasma membrane distribution of PHOT1-GFP on initial observation with the confocal microscope was taken as evidence that no damage had occurred. All images were acquired with a Nikon inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with appropriate Nikon water immersion objective lenses and a Bio-Rad MRC confocal head. All experiments were repeated three or more times with results similar to those presented above. Phototropism experiments were performed as described elsewhere (CITATION). Three-day-old seedlings were treated with red light (total fluence 100 μmol m−2) and returned to darkness for 2 h prior to blue light treatment. Blue fluence rates were either 1 or 20 μmol m−2 s−1, and exposure times were either 8 or 11 h. The plates of seedlings were scanned and the hypocotyl images were analyzed with NIH ImageJ 1.62 software. Representative data from four different experiments are shown. In all phototropism experiments, the curvatures of 20 or more seedlings were measured for each data point with similar results. Total protein was extracted from control or blue light–treated seedlings under dim red light as described elsewhere (CITATION). The extract was centrifuged for 10 min at 10,000 rpm in an Eppendorf 5415C tabletop centrifuge to sediment cell walls, larger organelles, and cellular debris not fully broken up. The supernatant was then centrifuged for 1 h at 135,000g .0 to obtain soluble and membrane fractions. Subsequent steps were as described (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: BRI1 (NM 120100), FKF1 (NM 105475), LKP2 (NM 179652), PIP2A (NM 115202), PHOT1 (NM 114447), PHOT2 (NM 180881), PHYA (001,123,784), PHYB (NJM 127435), and SIMIP (NM 119676). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Fluence Requirement for Blue Light–Induced Relocalization of PHOT1-GFP from the Plasma Membrane into the Cytoplasm in Cortical Cells of the Hypocotyl of Etiolated Arabidopsis Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 2. Protein Gel Blots Demonstrating Blue Light–Induced Release of Both PHOT1 and PHOT1-GFP from the Membrane to the Soluble Fraction of Etiolated Arabidopsis Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 3. In the phyA phyB Double Mutant, as in the phyA Single Mutant, Red Light Does Not Prevent Blue Light–Induced PHOT1-GFP Relocalization. Supplemental Figure 4. In phyA but Not phyB Mutants, Red Light Pretreatment Does Not Prevent Blue Light–Induced Relocalization of PHOT1-GFP in Lines Lacking Wild-Type PHOT1.
