!~ABS~! There are three iron superoxide dismutases in Arabidopsis thaliana: FE SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE1 (FSD1), FSD2, and FSD3. Their biological roles in chloroplast development are unknown. Here, we show that FSD2 and FSD3 play essential roles in early chloroplast development, whereas FSD1, which is found in the cytoplasm, does not. An fsd2-1 fsd3-1 double mutant had a severe albino phenotype on agar plates, whereas fsd2 and fsd3 single knockout mutants had pale green phenotypes. Chloroplast development was arrested in young seedlings of the double mutant. The mutant plants were highly sensitive to oxidative stress and developed increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during extended darkness. The FSD2 and FSD3 proteins formed a heteromeric protein complex in the chloroplast nucleoids. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing both the FSD2 and FSD3 genes showed greater tolerance to oxidative stress induced by methyl viologen than did the wild type or single FSD2- or FSD3-overexpressing lines. We propose that heteromeric FSD2 and FSD3 act as ROS scavengers in the maintenance of early chloroplast development by protecting the chloroplast nucleoids from ROS.
!~RES~! A pale green mutant, named apg8 (for albino or pale green8), was identified in a screen of 702 RIKEN Dissociation (Ds)-tagged lines (CITATION; CITATION) that had disrupted nucleus-encoded chloroplast proteins. The Ds transposon was inserted in a gene encoding FSD2 in Arabidopsis. Therefore, we renamed the apg8 mutant fsd2-1. Three FeSOD group proteins, FSD1, FSD2, and FSD3, are encoded in the Arabidopsis genome. To investigate the functions of these Arabidopsis FeSODs, we searched for lines with Ds or T-DNA insertions within the FSD1, FSD2, and FSD3 genes. From the SALK (CITATION), SAIL (CITATION), and GABI-Kat (CITATION) collections, seven independent lines were identified and named fsd1-1 (SALK_029455), fsd1-2 (GABI_740E11), fsd1-3 (GABI_341D04), fsd 2-1 (11-6562-1), fsd2-2 (SALK_080457), fsd3-1 (SALK_103228), and fsd3-2 (SAIL_224_E05) (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In these mutants, the Ds or T-DNA segregated as a single locus. Homozygous plants were obtained by self-pollination. RT-PCR analysis showed that the transcripts of the corresponding genes were absent in the mutant plants, whereas the transcripts of CSD2 were upregulated in both fsd2 and fsd3 mutants (Figure 1A ). The two mutant fsd2 lines and the two mutant fsd3 lines had pale green leaves; the leaves of the fsd3 lines were paler than those of the fsd2 lines (Figure 1B). Both fsd2 and fsd3 mutants were retarded in growth but could flower and produce seeds. By contrast, the fsd1 mutants grew normally and did not have any obviously abnormal phenotypes under normal growth conditions (Figure 1B). Overexpression of FSD2 and FSD3 cDNAs driven by the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter functionally complemented the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutants, respectively (Figure 1B). These results suggest that both FSD2 and FSD3 are required for normal plant growth. [[FIGURE]] We then crossed fsd2-1 with fsd3-1 to obtain a double mutant, named fsd2-1 fsd3-1. RT-PCR analysis confirmed that both the FSD2 and FSD3 transcripts were absent in the double mutant plants (Figure 1A). In contrast with the single mutant plants, the double mutant plants had a more severe albino phenotype when grown on agar plates (Figure 1B). A detailed study revealed that the leaf color of the double mutant was dramatically reduced compared with those of the single mutants, whereas the roots grew as well as the wild-type roots. The aerial organs (leaves and rosettes) developed normally in double mutant plants grown on agar medium containing 1% sucrose, but when they were transferred to soil, all of the plants withered and died and failed to produce progeny. We measured the chlorophyll fluorescence of the mutants by pulse amplitude–modulated fluorometry to investigate their photosynthetic activity (see Supplemental Table 1A online). After 1 week under normal light conditions, the primary maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII; Fv/Fm) and nonphotochemical quenching were significantly decreased in both fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 plants compared with wild-type and fsd1-1 plants (P < 0.001, with Bonferroni correction), whereas no significant effects on the fraction of open PSII centers were observed (P > 0.05). This indicates that PSII itself, and not the downstream photosynthetic apparatus of PSII, such as cytochrome b/f complexes or PSI, was impaired in the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 plants. We used transmission electron microscopy to investigate morphological changes in the plastids of fsd2 and fsd3 pale green leaves (Figure 2 ). We found abnormal plastids in the severely albino tissues of fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutants. The plastids were highly vacuolated and lacked internal membrane structures such as single stromal thylakoids or stacked grana thylakoids, and they contained abnormal suborganelle structures. In addition, there were a considerable number of densely stained globular structures, probably plastoglobuli. However, when the mutants were grown in darkness for 10 d and then exposed to low light (7 μmol·m−2·s−1) for 3 h, the plastids of fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 cotyledons had phenotypes similar to those of the wild type and the fsd1-1 mutant grown under the same conditions. They formed stromal-thylakoid–like membranes instead of stacked grana thylakoids. These results suggest that the greening processes of fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutants are normal (i.e., like those of wild-type and fsd1-1 plants) under low-light conditions and that both FSD2 and FSD3 proteins play important roles in chloroplast development, particularly in the maintenance of thylakoid membranes. [[FIGURE]] Ten-day-old seedlings of both fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutants did not show a wild-type response when subjected to changes in light intensity (Figure 3A ). Severe growth retardation and the albino phenotype were observed in fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 plants grown under strong light (240 μmol·m−2·s−1). By contrast, accumulation of anthocyanin was observed in normally grown seedlings of wild-type and fsd1-1 plants under strong-light conditions. Under low-light conditions (7 μmol·m−2·s−1), the stems of seedlings of both wild-type and fsd1-1 plants grew fast, the cotyledons remained folded, and the photosynthetic machinery was immature. By contrast, the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutant seedlings were pale green with expanded cotyledons, but the green was darker than that seen in these plants under normal light conditions. Moreover, low light caused a slight increase in chlorophyll accumulation in fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 leaves but a markedly reduced accumulation of chlorophyll in wild-type and fsd1-1 leaves during greening (see Supplemental Table 1B online). When fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 plants were transferred to a medium supplemented with 3.0% (w/v) sucrose, their phenotypes improved, even when grown under low-light conditions, compared with those on a medium with 1.0% (w/v) sucrose under low-light conditions (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Table 1C online). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the removal of the ROS produced by photosynthesis in plants, we detected superoxide production by the reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT). Formazan, produced upon the reduction of NBT by superoxide, appears strongly in the leaves of wild-type and mutant plants, and the reduction of NBT is suppressed by the application of a specific ROS scavenger of O2−, tetramethyl piperidinooxy, which was used as a negative control (CITATION). When plants were incubated for 2 d at 22°C in darkness, formazan production was suppressed in both wild-type and fsd1-1 plants. By contrast, its formation was not reduced in the pale green seedlings of the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutants (Figure 3B). Quantification of the formazan spots demonstrated that wild-type and fsd1-1 mutant plants produced smaller amounts of formazan precipitates than the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutant plants during a prolonged dark period (Figure 3C). These results suggest that the fsd2-1 and fsd3-1 mutations have a negative effect on the capacity to scavenge superoxide radicals. Multiple alignments of plant and bacterial FeSODs revealed that the N-terminal sequences were not conserved and that long N-terminal sequences were present in the FSD2 and FSD3 proteins (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). FSD2 and FSD3 contained a putative N-terminal chloroplast-targeting sequence predicted by the TargetP (CITATION), Predotar (CITATION), WoLF PSORT (CITATION), and PCLR (CITATION) programs. However, TargetP, Predotar, and PCLR failed to detect the N-terminal targeting sequence in FSD1 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). To confirm the chloroplast localization of these proteins in plant cells, we generated constructs containing full-length cDNAs of FSD1, FSD2, and FSD3 fused to a synthetic green fluorescent protein (sGFP) at their C termini (FSD1-GFP, FSD2-GFP, and FSD3-GFP, respectively). Transient expression of FSD-GFP fusion proteins in the epidermal cells of tobacco leaves transformed by means of particle bombardment resulted in GFP fluorescence in various subcellular compartments (Figure 4A ). The FSD2-GFP and FSD3-GFP fusion proteins colocalized with the chloroplasts, whereas FSD1-GFP proteins were detected in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. FSD2-GFP signals were detected in the entire chloroplast, but FSD3-GFP signals were detected only in discrete regions inside the chloroplasts. To confirm the localization of FSD2 and FSD3 proteins in chloroplasts, we prepared chloroplast fractions from transgenic lines producing His-tagged fusion proteins of FSD1, FSD2, FSD3, and CSD2, with the tags fused to the C termini. Immunoblot analysis using anti-His tag antibody revealed that FSD2 and FSD3 localized to the thylakoids but not to the stroma and FSD1 localized to the cytosol (Figure 4B). Application of antibodies against the thylakoid lumenal protein light-harvesting chlorophyll protein complex and against the stromal Rubisco complex confirmed that the thylakoid fraction was reasonably pure. These results suggest that FSD2 and FSD3 are tightly attached to the stromal side of the thylakoid membranes, because they do not have transmembrane domains. The membrane association of FSD2 and FSD3 is similar to that of CSD2 in spinach (Spinacia oleracea) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In the mature chloroplast, plastid nucleoids are located within the stroma as small particles mostly associated with thylakoids (CITATION). We analyzed whether FSD3 was colocalized with PEND (for plastid envelope DNA binding), a well-characterized DNA binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of the developing chloroplast (CITATION), by transiently coexpressing FSD3–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and a modified PEND–cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fusion protein consisting of the N-terminal region of the PEND homolog of Arabidopsis (CITATION). Fluorescence signals of PEND-CFP were observed in the cell nucleus and chloroplast nucleoids (Figure 4C); this finding differs from that of a previous report of stable PEND-CFP transformants of Arabidopsis (CITATION), in which only plastid nucleoids were observed without interference by cell nuclei. This difference may be because we transiently expressed Arabidopsis PEND-CFP fusion proteins in tobacco. Figure 4C shows that the FSD3-YFP signals colocalized with the PEND-CFP signals in the chloroplasts, indicating that FSD3 colocalized with the nucleoids in mature leaf chloroplasts. We then examined the expression of nucleus-encoded plastid RNA polymerase (NEP) and/or plastid-encoded plastid RNA polymerase (PEP) genes in both wild-type and fsd mutant plants (Figure 5 ). The psaA, psbA, and petB genes were selected as PEP-dependent genes (class I); accD, rpoA, and ycf2 were chosen as NEP-dependent genes (class III); and atpB, clpP, and ndhB were used as both PEP- and NEP-dependent genes (class II). RT-PCR analysis using primer sets (CITATION) specific for each gene showed that pale green and albino mutants (i.e., fsd2, fsd3, and fsd2 fsds3 mutants) accumulated decreased amounts of mRNA for class I genes and increased amounts of mRNA for class III genes in the total mRNA pool. In the case of the class II genes—especially ndhB—accumulation of the mRNA in the fsd2 and fsd3 mutants was higher than in the wild-type and fsd1 plants. These results suggest that the chloroplast expression system that utilizes PEP is deficient in the fsd2 and fsd3 mutants. [[FIGURE]] FSD2 and FSD3 transcripts could not be detected in RNA gel blots of wild-type plants, but quantitative RT-PCR showed their accumulation in all organs tested except roots, with maximum amounts in immature siliques, whereas transcripts of FSD1 were detected strongly in all organs except flowers and mature seeds (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). FSD2 and FSD3 mRNA rapidly accumulated in response to oxidative stresses such as high light, cold, and MV treatment (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). In corroboration of the results of our RT-PCR analysis, examination of the Genevestigator database (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) revealed that the expression profiles of FSD2 and FSD3 by growth stage and stress response differ from those of FSD1 but are similar to each other. We analyzed the expression of FeSODs throughout the development of Arabidopsis using tissue-specific staining patterns in transgenic plants expressing β-glucuronidase (GUS) driven by a specific FeSOD promoter (FSDpro:GUS). GUS staining of FSD1pro:GUS transgenic Arabidopsis plants was strong in all organs of seedlings and young plants and weak in mature siliques (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). In the FSD3pro:GUS plants, GUS staining was observed in the cotyledons, leaf primordia, and young leaves but not in mature leaves, stems, flowers, or mature siliques. GUS staining was not observed in FSD2pro:GUS plants. The GUS staining pattern suggests that FSD3 functions in the early stage of chloroplast development. There have been several reports that FeSODs in plants form homodimers (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether the FSD2 and FSD3 proteins form homodimers and heterodimers with each other, we examined the interactions among the three FSDs and CSD2 by yeast two-hybrid assays. However, yeast cells producing full-length proteins of FSD2, FSD3, or CSD2 were not viable, even on plates containing a low-stringency medium such as SD/–Leu/–Trp, probably because they have functional chloroplast transit peptides and are thus likely misdirected to intracellular compartments in the yeast. Therefore, we transformed yeast cells with FSD2, FSD3, or CSD2 sequences that lacked transit peptide regions. Coproduction of FSD2 with FSD3 resulted in positive β-galactosidase activity and growth on SD/–Leu/–Trp/–His/–adenine (Ade)/30 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) plates (Figure 6A ). Similar interactions between FSD1 and FSD1, FSD1 and FSD3, and FSD3 and FSD3 were observed, with faint β-galactosidase activity. Among these, complexes between FSD1 and FSD3 are not formed in plants because of the different subcellular localizations of these proteins (Figures 4A and 4B). Taken together, these results led us to speculate that FSD1 and FSD3 exist as homodimers and that FSD2 and FSD3 form a heterodimer in planta. To confirm the FSD2 and FSD3 interaction in vivo, we performed coimmunoprecipitation assays using leaf cell extracts (Figure 6B). FSD2 with a C-terminal Flag epitope tag (FSD2-Flag) and FSD3 with a C-terminal hemagglutinin (HA) epitope tag (FSD3-HA) were coproduced in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana following agroinfiltration. Leaf extracts were subsequently immunoprecipitated with the anti-HA antibody. FSD2-Flag was coimmunoprecipitated with FSD3-HA using the anti-HA antibody. Similar results were obtained by immunoprecipitating FSD2-HA with the anti-Flag antibody when leaf extracts expressing both FSD2 with a C-terminal HA epitope tag (FSD2-HA) and FSD3 with a C-terminal Flag epitope tag (FSD3-Flag) were used. Neither FSD2 nor FSD3 could interact with itself, because immunoprecipitation using anti-Flag or anti-HA antibody was not observed when FSD2-Flag and FSD2-HA, or FSD3-Flag and FSD3-HA, were cotransformed in leaf cells. [[FIGURE]] We then tried to visualize the protein interaction between FSD2 and FSD3 in chloroplasts using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) in transiently transformed tobacco leaves. BiFC involves the reconstitution of YFP fluorescence upon association of nonfluorescent, N-terminal (NY) and C-terminal (CY) fragments of YFP, brought together as a consequence of their fusion with interacting proteins (CITATION). GFP fluorescence in tobacco cells producing full-length FSD2 and FSD3 fused with sGFP (FSD2-GFP and FSD3-GFP) was detected in the chloroplast (Figure 4A). This observation suggested that BiFC fluorescence associated with the FSD2–FSD3 interaction would be observed as if the two fluorescence images of FSD2-GFP and FSD3-GFP in Figure 4A were combined. Indeed, when we analyzed tobacco leaves coproducing fusions of FSD2-NY and FSD3-CY, a strong YFP fluorescence signal was detected in specific regions of the chloroplast nucleoids and weakly in the entire chloroplast (Figure 6C). By contrast, no FSD2 and FSD3 homodimerization-induced YFP fluorescence was observed in epidermal cells that were transformed with FSD2-NY and FSD2-CY, and FSD3-NY and FSD3-CY, respectively. Taken together, these results strongly support the hypothesis that FSD2 and FSD3 form a heterodimer that functions in chloroplast nucleoids. To obtain a large amount of soluble and active FSD2 and FSD3 proteins, we induced the expression of N-terminally His-tagged or glutathione S-transferase (GST)–tagged cDNA fragments of FSD2 and FSD3 in transgenic Escherichia coli by adding isopropylthio-β-galactoside. However, His-FSD3 was exclusively recovered in inclusion bodies and was absent from the soluble fraction when subjected to SDS-PAGE, followed by Coomassie blue staining, and was not detected in the protein fraction purified on a nickel column (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The enzyme activities of His-FSD2 and GST-FSD3 were then further analyzed. SOD activity signals on the native PAGE gels were detected with both of the recombinant proteins, indicating that both FSD2 and FSD3 proteins have specific enzymatic activity (see Supplemental Figure 6A online). GST-FSD3 had SOD activity that was at least 10 times that of His-FSD2 in several active bands (monomer, dimer, trimer, etc.). We investigated whether the formation of FSD2 and FSD3 heterodimers caused an elevation in enzyme activity levels. Addition of His-FSD2 and GST-FSD3 led to increased SOD activity. However, no significant difference in the SOD activity was observed between a mixture of His-FSD2 and GST-FSD3 and the sum of the individual His-FSD2 and GST-FSD3 activities (see Supplemental Figure 6A online). To further analyze the interaction between His-FSD2 and GST-FSD3 in vitro, we performed pull-down assays. For this purpose, GST and GST-FSD3 were immobilized on glutathione–Sepharose columns and assayed for their ability to pull down recombinant His-FSD2 by immunoblotting with anti-His antibodies. GST-FSD3 weakly interacted with His-FSD2 but not with GST alone (see Supplemental Figure 6B online). These data indicated that FSD2 weakly interacts with FSD3 directly in vitro; under these conditions, SOD activity due to the formation of a His-FSD2/GST-FSD3 heterodimer was not significantly higher than that produced by each protein individually. To further analyze the functions of FSD2 and FSD3, we generated transgenic lines overexpressing FSD2, FSD3, and CSD2 individually and FSD2 and FSD3 together. There were no obvious morphological or developmental differences between the transgenic and wild-type plants. However, seeds of transgenic plants overexpressing FSD2 and FSD3 together had a 50% reduction in germination compared with those of the wild-type plants, after treatment at 4°C for 3 d in darkness. Furthermore, after germination, no morphological differences were observed in transgenic plants overexpressing FSD2 and FSD3 compared with wild-type plants. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed strong overexpression of the transcripts in T3 plants of homozygous transgenic lines (Figure 7A ). Transgenic lines expressing FSD2, FSD3, and CSD2 had high levels of the corresponding mRNAs, whereas FSD2 and FSD3 expression in plants overexpressing both of these genes was only slightly increased compared with those of the wild type. Overexpression of FSD2 was suppressed by the induction of FSD3 expression in 35S:FSD2 plants retransformed with 35S:FSD3, indicating the existence of a reciprocal regulation between FSD2 and FSD3 expression. Relatively high levels of FeSOD and Cu/ZnSOD activity were observed in transgenic plants compared with those of the wild type, while the activity of MnSOD was almost similar to each other (Figure 7B). MV causes an increase in the production of superoxide radicals in chloroplasts. We investigated the effect of MV on the transgenic plants by measuring the MV-dependent decrease in activity of the PSII reaction center under normal light conditions at 30 μmol·m−2·s−1. The leaves of transgenic plants expressing FSD2 and FSD3 individually and combined showed less inactivation of PSII, as indicated by Fv/Fm, than did wild-type plants (Figure 7C). These results indicate that transgenic plants were more tolerant to MV than were wild-type plants. The differences between transgenic and control plants were significant in the presence of 0.25 μM MV (wild type versus FSD2-OE/FSD3-OE, P < 0.05; wild type versus CSD2-OE/double-OE, P < 0.001, with Bonferroni correction; see Supplemental Table 3 online). Under this level of exposure, transgenic plants expressing both FSD2 and FSD3 transgenes showed less inactivation of PSII than did wild-type plants and transgenic plants expressing a single transgene (FSD2-OE/FSD3-OE versus double-OE, P < 0.01). Taken together, these data indicate that overexpression of both FSD2 and FSD3 together improves tolerance to MV and protects chloroplasts against light-dependent oxidative stress; this also supports the hypothesis that FSD2 and FSD3 act as a heterodimer. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sown on GM agar plates, and seedlings were grown in CF-405 chambers (TOMY-Seiko) at 22°C with a 16-h photoperiod (CITATION). Single-knockout FeSOD mutants were obtained from the ABRC (Ohio State University) and GABI-Kat (Bielefeld University). The fsd2-1 fsd3-1 double mutant was obtained by crossing flowers of fsd2-1 plants with pollen from fsd3-1. All genotypes were initially screened in the F2 generation and then confirmed in the F3 and F4 generations. The genotypes at various loci were determined by PCR analysis. Standard cloning techniques were used to make the plant transformation constructs and to generate transgenic Arabidopsis (Columbia ecotype). The multiple independent transgenic lines producing each fusion protein reported here were T-DNA homozygous plants in the F3 generation that were selected and tested by PCR and RNA gel blot analyses for high expression of the transgenes. Putative full-length cDNA clones of Arabidopsis FeSODs were obtained from the RIKEN Bioresource Center (a gift from Masatomo Kobayashi). Clones used were FSD1 (RAFL02-01-K01), FSD2 (RAFL15-24-J05), FSD3 (RAFL06-83-B22), and CSD2 (RAFL09-24-G05). To prepare FSD-GFP/YFP, FSD-His, FSD-Flag, and FSD-HA epitope tag fusion proteins, the open reading frames (ORFs) of the FeSODs were fused to the N termini of GFP/YFP, His, Flag, and HA, respectively. To prepare promoter-GUS fusion constructs, the FeSOD promoter sequences were fused to GUS. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 4 online. PCR was performed using PrimeSTAR HS DNA polymerase (Takara) in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended conditions. Using Gateway cloning technology (CITATION), FeSOD ORFs were cloned into the pGWB2 (35S promoter, no tag), pGWB5 (35S promoter, C-terminal [C]-sGFP), pGWB8 (35S promoter, C-6xHis), pGWB11 (35S promoter, C-Flag), pGWB14 (35S promoter, C-3xHA) (CITATION), and pH35GY (35S promoter, C-YFP) (CITATION) vectors. Promoter sequences of FeSODs were cloned into the pGWB3 (no promoter, C-GUS) vector. For PEND-CFP constructs, the DNA fragments encoding the N-terminal region of PEND (88 amino acids) amplified from genomic DNA were inserted into the pH35GC (35S promoter, C-CFP) vector. After transfection in DH5α, stably transformed lines were cultured with appropriate antibiotics. Total RNA was isolated from 3-week-old seedlings grown on GM agar plates using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's protocol and then treated with RNase-free DNase I (Promega) to degrade any remaining DNA. First-strand cDNA synthesis was performed from 2 mg of total RNA using a random hexamer with the SuperScript II reverse transcriptase kit (Invitrogen). For RT-PCR, cDNAs were amplified using ExTaq DNA polymerase (Takara) and gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online). The number of amplification cycles was reduced to 25 from 35 to evaluate and quantify any differences among transcript levels before the levels reached saturation. PCR fragments were separated on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel containing a 1:10,000 dilution of Sybr safe (Invitrogen) dye. DNA was visualized with a UV light transilluminator. For quantitative RT-PCR, the cDNAs were amplified using TaKaRa SYBR Premix ExTaq in an ABI PRISM 7500 real-time PCR instrument (Applied Biosystems). PCR was optimized, and reactions were performed in triplicate. The transcript level was standardized based on cDNA amplification of reference genes such as ACTIN2 and UBIQUITIN1. Relative gene expression data were generated using the wild type as the reference (for basal expression comparisons). Primers used for real-time PCR amplifications are described in Supplemental Table 4 online. Primers specific for plastid-encoded genes used for RT-PCR analysis have been described (CITATION). Photosynthetic parameters were calculated from chlorophyll fluorescence data collected with a portable pulse amplitude modulator fluorometer (MINI-PAM; Walz). The maximum efficiency of PSII photochemistry was determined as the ratio of variable to maximum chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm), and the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter fractions of open PSII centers and nonphotochemical quenching (Fm/Fm′ − 1) were determined as described (CITATION; CITATION). Before measurement, fully expanded leaves taken from plants grown under normal conditions for 3 weeks were dark-adapted for 20 min. Chlorophyll content was assayed as described (CITATION). ROS were quantified by precipitation in leaves by a method used to monitor O2− radicals, as described previously (CITATION). To quantify formazan generation, leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen and solubilized in a mixture of 2 M KOH and DMSO at a ratio of 1:1.167 (v/v). The amount of formazan was determined as A700. As negative controls, seedlings were incubated with 1 mM tetramethyl piperidinooxy, an O2− scavenger. GUS-stained Arabidopsis leaves were observed with an MZ APO (Leica) or a BX60 (Olympus) light microscope and recorded with a VB-7000 digital camera (Keyence). Subcellular localization of several FSD fusion proteins was analyzed using GFP, YFP, and CFP fluorescence. GFP, YFP, and CFP fluorescence of transiently transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv SR1) leaves was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (LSM510 Meta; Zeiss). For transmission electron microscopy, images were obtained as described (CITATION). Fresh leaves from transgenic and control Arabidopsis plants were homogenized in extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 330 mM sorbitol, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM MnCl2, 2 mM EDTA, pH 8.0, 0.2% BSA, and 2 mM sodium ascorbate). Intact chloroplasts were isolated by centrifugation of cell lysates through a Percoll density gradient (40 to 80%), essentially as described previously (CITATION). The integrity of the chloroplasts was assessed by phase-contrast light microscopy (CITATION), and >90% of chloroplasts were found to be intact. To prepare the chloroplast fractions, isolated chloroplasts were osmotically lysed in a hypotonic buffered solution (5 mM Tricine-NaOH [pH 7.8], 5 mM NaCl, and 1 mM MgCl2) and further ruptured by two freeze–thaw cycles. The suspension of broken chloroplasts was then centrifuged for 1 h at 100,000g. The soluble fraction containing the stroma and envelopes was removed and used directly for further analyses. The pellet, containing crude thylakoid membranes, was resuspended in the hypotonic buffered solution described above. Protein extraction, SDS-PAGE, and immunoblot analysis were performed essentially as described (CITATION). Leaf tissue for protein analysis was collected from 3-week-old plants grown under standard conditions. The antibodies used in this report are monoclonal anti-His antibody (GE Healthcare), monoclonal anti-Flag antibody (F1804; Sigma-Aldrich), monoclonal anti-HA antibody (H9658; Sigma-Aldrich), and horseradish peroxidase–conjugated antibody against mouse IgG (GE Healthcare) for detection with the ECL detection system (GE Healthcare). A commercial yeast two-hybrid system (Clontech) was used to test interactions among FSD1, FSD2, FSD3, and CSD2. The plasmids used in yeast two-hybrid assays were generated by PCR amplification of ORFs of FSDs and CSD2 that removed the predicted chloroplast transit peptides, followed by insertion of the resulting amplimers between the EcoRI and BamHI sites of both plasmid pGBKT7 DNA-BD/bait and pGADT7 AD/library (Clontech), respectively. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AH109 was cotransfected by the lithium acetate method (CITATION) with both bait and library plasmids. His prototrophs were selected on medium-stringency plates containing triple-dropout medium (lacking Leu, Trp, and His) supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT to suppress background colony growth. His and Ade prototrophs were selected on high-stringency plates containing quadruple-dropout medium (lacking Leu, Trp, His, and Ade) supplemented with both 30 mM 3-AT and 40 mg/L X-α-Gal to detect reporter gene expression. The BiFC method was used to visualize FSD2–FSD3 interactions in living plant cells (CITATION). The cDNA regions encoding FSD2 and FSD3 were amplified from plasmid templates containing the corresponding cDNA by PCR using gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) and cloned into each of the BiFC vectors, pUC-SPYNE and pUC-SPYCE. The constructs were delivered into leaf cells of tobacco by particle bombardment using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000 He particle delivery system according to the manufacturer's instructions. The BiFC-induced fluorescence was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy after 24 h of incubation at 22°C in the dark. FSD with a C-terminal Flag epitope tag (FSD-Flag) and FSD with a C-terminal HA epitope tag (FSD-HA) were coproduced in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana by agroinfiltration using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Agrobacterium culture and infiltration were performed as described (CITATION). Protein extraction and immune complex formation were performed as described (CITATION), with minor modifications. The extraction protein (1 mL) was incubated at 4°C for 2 h with either anti-Flag–agarose (A2220; Sigma-Aldrich) or anti-HA–agarose (A2095; Sigma-Aldrich) in a 40-μL bed volume. The immune complexes were centrifuged for 30 s at 700g and washed three times in 500 μL of 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4) and 150 mM NaCl. Finally, 50 μL of 2× SDS-PAGE sample buffer was added to each sample, and the samples were boiled for 3 min. Undissolved agarose was removed by centrifugation at 700g for 5 s, and the supernatant was used for further analysis. The protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted using specific antibodies against the tagged proteins. For SOD activity analysis in vitro, recombinant proteins of His-FSD2 (residues 47 to 305) and GST-FSD3 (residues 42 to 263) from which the predicted chloroplast transit peptides had been removed were cloned into the pQE30 (Qiagen) and pGEX-5X-1 (GE Healthcare) vectors, respectively. His-FSD2 was produced in Escherichia coli strain M15[pREP4] and purified with nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen). GST-FSD3 was produced in E. coli strain BL21 and purified with glutathione–Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare) in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. For the GST pull-down assay, GST and GST-FSD3 fusion proteins were incubated on a rotating wheel for 2 h at 4°C with glutathione–Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare) in a total volume of 500 μL of homogenization buffer (HB; 25 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 100 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, and 0.5% Triton X-100). After the fusion-protein–coated beads had been washed three times with HB, a total volume of 500 μL of homogenization buffer containing His-FSD2 fusion proteins was incubated with the beads for 2 h at 4°C. After the incubation, the beads were washed three times with HB and resuspended with 50 μL of 2× sample buffer. The mixture was boiled for 2 min to dissociate the protein complex from the beads and then centrifuged for 30 s at 700g. The supernatant protein fractions were separated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE for immunoblot analysis with an anti-His antibody (GE Healthcare). SOD was assayed by the method of CITATION by visualizing its ability to inhibit the photochemical reduction of NBT. For SOD visualization, protein samples were separated by 10% nondenaturing PAGE in Tris-Gly buffer (pH 8.3). The gel was then soaked in 0.1% (w/v) NBT solution for 15 min, rinsed with distilled water, and held for another 15 min in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 0.028 mM riboflavin and 28 mM N,N,N′,N′-tetramethyl-ethylenediamine. After being washed with distilled water, the gel was illuminated for 15 min on a light box under a light intensity of 30 μmol·m−2·s−1 to initiate the photochemical reaction. The intensities of the protein bands were quantified using ImageJ imaging software (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). SOD activity was verified by the application of KCN or H2O2. KCN is an inhibitor of Cu/ZnSOD, whereas H2O2 inhibits both Cu/ZnSOD and FeSOD. The MnSOD activity is not inhibited by either chemical. MV damage of plants was analyzed as described by CITATION, with some modifications. Leaf discs of ∼0.3 cm2 from wild-type and transgenic plants were preincubated in the dark at 22°C overnight in water or in an aqueous solution of MV (0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.25, 0.35, and 0.50 μM) to generate superoxide radicals. They were then illuminated for 2.5 h at a photon flux density of 30 μmol·m−2·s−1 and subsequently incubated at 22°C for 2 h in the dark. MV-dependent oxygen radical damage was measured as Fv/Fm, a measure of the activity of the PSII reaction centers (CITATION), with a pulse amplitude modulator fluorometer (Walz). The average values of at least 60 leaf discs at seven different MV concentrations were used to calculate the MV-induced decrease in Fv/Fm. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: FSD1 (At4g25100, NP_19420), FSD2 (At5g51100, NP_19923), FSD3 (At5g23310, NP_197722), CSD1 (At1g08830), CSD2 (At2g28190), CSD3 (At5g18100), MSD1 (At3g10920), UBIQUITIN1 (At3g52590), ACTIN2 (At3g18780), PEND (At3g15170), Ec FSD (BAA15422), Ss FSD (BAA18027), and Os FSD (BAA37131). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Structures of FSD1, FSD2, and FSD3 Genes and Their Ds/T-DNA Insertion Sites. Supplemental Figure 2. SOD Gene Family from Arabidopsis and Other Species. Supplemental Figure 3. RT-PCR Analysis of Transcripts of FSD1, FSD-2, FSD-3, and CSD2 in Wild-Type Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. Activity of the FSD1 and FSD3 Promoters Is Tissue-Specific. Supplemental Figure 5. Total Soluble Protein Profiles of Isopropylthio-β-Galactoside–Induced E. coli Cells Containing the Tagged Constructs Indicated. Supplemental Figure 6. SOD Activity of Recombinant FSD2 and FSD3 Proteins. Supplemental Table 1. Restoration of Greening in Pale Green Mutants Grown under Low-Light Conditions. Supplemental Table 2. Prediction of Targeting Sequences and Subcellular Localization of SOD in Arabidopsis by Different Software Tools. Supplemental Table 3. Bonferroni Multiple Comparison Test. Supplemental Table 4. Nucleotide Sequences of Gene-Specific Primers.
