!~ABS~! VH1/BRL2 is a receptor-like kinase of the BRI1 family with a role in vascular development. In developing Arabidopsis leaves it is expressed first in ground cells and then becomes restricted to provascular and procambial cells as venation forms. We isolated proteins interacting with the activated (phosphorylated) cytoplasmic domain of VH1/BRL2, and found that most belong to three processes: proteasome activity, vesicle traffic and intracellular signal transduction. Two adaptor proteins are included that we named VIT [VH1-interacting tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR)-containing protein] and VIK (VH1-interacting kinase), which are co-expressed in the same cells as VH1/BRL2 at two distinct time points in vein differentiation. Mutation of either adaptor or of VH1 results in vein pattern defects and in alterations in response to auxin and brassinosteroids. We propose that these two adaptors facilitate the diversification and amplification of a ligand signal perceived by VH1/BRL2 in multiple downstream pathways affecting venation.
!~RES~! The intracellular portion of the VH1/BRL2 protein includes canonical kinase amino acid motifs joined at the carboxyl end to a unique region likely to mediate specific interactions (CITATION). We used a 998-amino acid C-terminal fragment fused to a maltose binding protein (MBP) tag as a probe against phage libraries expressing Arabidopsis seedling proteins. We chose this in vitro approach to enable us to control the kinase activation state, which may influence significant interactions. When the VH1/BRL2kin domain was used as a probe in its activated (phosphorylated) state, 66 interaction candidates were recovered, including the VH1/BRL2 protein itself, which were categorized as strong, medium and weak interactors (Table 1 and Tables S1 and S2 in Supporting Information). Column 1, gene number. Column 2, annotation from TAIR and NCBI websites (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/ and http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). Column 3, presence of signal peptide (sp), transmembrane domain (tmd), or post-translational modification (ptm) which are predicted to target the protein to membranes. Column 4, number of serine (S), threonine (T) and tyrosine (Y) embedded in phosphorylation target sequences from the DIPHOSPHO database (http://core.ist.temple.edu/pred/pred.html) (CITATION). Column 5, prediction of kinase recognition: a, basophilic serine/threonine kinase group; b, kinase-binding site group; c, acidophilic serine/threonine kinase group; d, phosphoserine/threonine-binding group. H, high stringency (top 0.2%); M, medium stringency (top 1%). The homodimerization of VH1/BRL2 is consistent with its ability to autophosphorylate in vitro (CITATION); dimerization and transphosphorylation are properties shared by many RLKs (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). In VH1/BRL2, this relies on the intracellular portion of the protein: the last 990 nucleotides, encoding a juxtamembrane region, the kinase domain and the carboxyl tail. Membrane-localized proteins usually contain features such as a signal peptide and a transmembrane domain, or motifs for membrane-anchoring post-translational modifications (e.g. prenylation) or for interaction with membrane components. Of the strong signal strength candidates, 11 display a predicted transmembrane domain, 8 of which are associated with a signal peptide, and 3 are predicted targets of post-translational modification for membrane localization (Table 1, column 3). Phosphodependent protein interaction domains typically recognize peptide motifs on their binding partners, including a phosphorylated tyrosine or serine/threonine. Sixteen of the strong interaction candidates display at least one serine embedded in a phosphorylation target sequence (Table 1, column 4). All but four of the interaction candidates are predicted to be able to bind a basophilic kinase or belong to the kinase-binding group (Table 1, column 5 and Tables S1 and S2). We compared the morphology and leaf venation pattern of plants with homozygous T-DNA insertions in 13 of the VH1/BRL2kin interaction candidates (Table S3) with a vh1 insertion mutant in the same background. None, including vh1, showed an alteration in gross plant morphology or growth rate. The vh1 mutant and insertion mutants of several of its partner candidates exhibited a variety of defects in the pattern of veins in cotyledons and leaves, compared with wild type Columbia ecotype (Col-0, Figure 1) or wild-type siblings of each mutant grown under the same conditions (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] In wild-type Arabidopsis cotyledons, secondary veins branch from the midvein to form four loops without gaps (Figure 1). Occasionally, the number of loops is reduced when proximal secondary veins do not connect to the base of the midvein or are absent. Gaps in veins or fewer than two secondary veins are observed in the Col-0 ecotype only in mutants (e.g. auxin resistant2, axr2, Figure 1; CITATION). T-DNA insertion mutants of 11 of the strong and 1 of the medium interaction candidates display a reduced venation, with fewer cotyledon secondary veins or a greater number of unconnected secondary veins, and more discontinuous venation with gaps in secondary veins (Figure 1). The Col-0 wild type and an unrelated control insertion line (SALK_031993 in At4g38410) did not exhibit these abnormalities when grown under the same conditions (Figure 1). Each insertion mutant exhibited a unique and constant distribution of pattern defects, although not all of the mutants were confirmed as RNA nulls. The identity of VH1/BRL2 partners implies an influence on at least three cellular processes: targeted protein degradation, vesicle trafficking and signal transduction (Figure 2). Seven of the interaction candidates bear interaction domains characteristic of adaptor proteins (Figure 2), which link a receptor to alternative outputs and thereby amplify and diversify a signal (CITATION). These have a modular structure, including a protein–protein interaction domain, such as ankyrin or tetratricopeptide repeats, for association with the receptor, plus additional domains mediating interactions with downstream proteins or having enzymatic activity that amplifies and transduces a signal. [[FIGURE]] We tested the interaction of the VH1/BRL2kin with two candidates having adaptor-like protein–protein interaction domains: VIT (At2g42580) and VIK (At1g14000). For both, the in vitro interaction with VH1/BRL2kin was phosphorylation-dependent and mediated by the protein–protein interaction domain of the putative adaptor: the TPR domain of VIT and the ankyrin domain of VIK (Table 2 and Figure S1). VH1-kin, VH1-kin*, VH1 with unphosphorylated or phosphorylated kinase domain; VIT-TPR, tetratricorepeat domain of VIT; VIT-TrxL, thioredoxin-like domain of VIT; VIK-kin, kinase domain of VIK; VIK-Ank, ankyrin domain of VIK. Corresponding gel bands are shown in Figure S1. The VIK protein bears a conserved serine-threonine kinase domain downstream of the ankyrin repeat and belongs to the C1 subgroup of MAP kinase kinase kinases (MAPKKKs) (CITATION), based on domain structure. It is possible that this kinase activity is used to transduce the signal perceived by VH1/BRL2 through a MAPK cascade. We were able to detect kinase activity from in vitro-expressed VIK, using a standard myelin basic protein substrate assay (data not shown); its true substrate is unknown. The VIT protein bears a thioredoxin-like domain downstream of three tandem TPRs and belongs to the Arabidopsis four-member TTL family (TPR thioredoxin-like; CITATION). The thioredoxin-like domain of VIT does not appear to possess a reducing enzymatic activity (Figure 3, and data not shown), in agreement with its lack of the conserved cysteine pairs found in active thioredoxins of the h class (CITATION). When we screened with VIT as the probe, we recovered four interactors in common with VH1/BRL2 (Table 3 and Tables S4 and S5), suggesting it may serve as an adaptor for multiple complexes, including that for VH1/BRL2. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether VIT and VIK mutant phenotypes overlap with those of VH1/BRL2, suggesting participation in the same downstream branch of signal transduction, we evaluated plants with likely null mutations in VH1/BRL2 and VIT (SALK_016024 and SALK_029904, respectively), or producing a truncated RNA for VIK (SALK_002267) with respect to vein pattern, hormone sensitivity and expression pattern (Figure S2). vh1 and vit mutants show alteration in the positioning, continuity and complexity of secondary veins in cotyledons (Figures 1 and 4); the vik mutant does not (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] For the vh1 mutant, in 57.5% of the gap-containing cotyledons (n = 25) the defect is observed in only a single secondary vein (Figure 4c), while in 37.5% (n = 25) the vein pattern is extremely reduced (Figure 4e), resembling the one produced in auxin mutants. In 1% (n = 180) of the observed cotyledons, one of the two apical loops is mislocalized (Figure 4b), absent or discontinuous. Another 1% (n = 180) of the vh1 cotyledons exhibit an extra secondary vein (Figure 4d). For the vit null mutant, 16.6% (n = 25) of the gaps are associated with extremely reduced venation pattern (Figure 4i). In 1% (n = 177) of the vit cotyledons, a vascular island was observed (Figure 4h). In a small subset of cotyledons the pattern is highly reduced, with two gaps present (Figure 4g). A small number of vit cotyledons (5/177) display an altered shape associated with a defect in vein patterning (Figure 4f,i). vit cotyledons exhibit rare defects, including misalignment in both the midvein [Figure 4j, 2% (n = 177) of cases] and distal loops (Figure 4k; 5%, n = 177), a subset (3%) of which have smaller gaps visible only at high magnification. Vein pattern defects are present in adult organs of all three mutants. To assess the role of VH1/BRL2, VIT and VIK in post-embryonic vegetative development, veins were scored in 2-week-old primary leaves (n ≥ 50), when a wild-type leaf has a central midvein and three secondary veins on each side. The vh1/brl2 and vit mutations exhibit an increase in the number of veins (Figure 5a). The vik mutant exhibits an increase in veins ending freely, rather than closing in a loop, and therefore a more open pattern than wild type (Figure 5b,c). In contrast, vh1 and vit mutations lead to a more closed pattern, with a decrease in the ratio of free ending veins to closed loops (Figure 5b). For vit, this includes an increase in branching points in the midvein and a decrease in the tertiary veins (Figure 5c). [[FIGURE]] The distal secondary loops in leaves of the vit mutant exhibit small gaps (10% of vit leaves, 2% of wild type) (Figure 5d) which are not spanned by elongated cells, suggesting that procambial differentiation is absent in the gaps (Figure 5e). None of the other insertion lines shows this defect. The determination of cells to become vein elements requires the participation of several hormones (CITATION). We tested whether hormone responses were affected in vh1, vit and vik, using root or hypocotyl elongation bioassays. Root growth inhibition was compared in response to exogenous auxin (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2,4-D), auxin transport inhibition by naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA), and BRs (epibrassinolide, eBL) (Figure 6a–c). Root length is reduced in vit, compared with vh1, vik and wild type (Figure S3). vh1 and vit were hypersensitive and vik was hyposensitive to low concentrations of 2,4-D (25 and 50 nm) and NPA (1 μm); all responded as wild type at higher concentration (Figure 6a,b). vh1 and vik were hyposensitive and vit was hypersensitive to low eBL concentrations (0.02 and 0.2 μm); all responded as wild type at higher eBL concentration (Figure 6c). [[FIGURE]] Although it is possible that the defective responses of the mutants at low- but not high-concentration treatments are a consequence of defects in uptake, the effects were specific to these compounds. Responses to other compounds, including ABA and gibberellins (GAs; in the form of GA3), were normal (Figure 6d,e, and data not shown). The altered sensitivity observed in the insertion mutants to auxin and BR could be due to the effects of an altered signaling pathway, if VH1/BRL2, VIT or VIK are part of it, or to an altered hormone response, if VH1/BRL2, VIT, or VIK are part of the target hormone transcriptome. We measured the effect of auxin, eBL, ABA and GA3 on the expression levels of VH1/BRL2, VIT and VIK in liquid culture. In wild-type seedlings, both VH1/BRL2 and VIK transcripts were induced after 3 h of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) supplementation (1.51 ± 0.08- and 1.50 ± 0.09-fold, respectively), while VIT transcription was repressed (0.72 ± 0.04-fold) (Figure 7a). In contrast, eBL had little effect on VIK and VH1/BRL2 transcripts (0.98 ± 0.06- and 1.19 ± 0.07-fold, respectively), but induced VIT transcription (1.6 ± 0.1-fold) (Figure 7b). Gibberellin GA3 did not affect transcription of the three genes, but VH1/BRL2 was repressed by ABA (Figure 7c,d). [[FIGURE]] To test whether defects in VH1/BRL2, VIT and VIK cause alterations in auxin- and BR-regulated gene expression, we measured the hormone-induced transcripts of several previously characterized responsive genes (CITATION; CITATION), all of which are expressed in developing or mature veins, based on cell-specific transcriptome data (NG, unpublished results) The auxin responses of the auxin-regulated genes ARF19, SAUR46, GH3-1 and IAA18 are altered only in the vit mutant. In wild type and vh1 and vik mutants ARF19, SAUR46 and GH3-1 are up-regulated upon IAA treatment, while IAA18 is down-regulated, in agreement with reported data for Col-0 wild type (data not shown and CITATION; CITATION). In the vit mutant ARF19, SAUR46 and GH3-1 are more up-regulated, while IAA18 is not down-regulated as much as in Col-0 (Figure 8), suggesting that VIT normally attenuates their regulation by auxin. [[FIGURE]] The BR-regulated genes are similarly affected. In the vh1 and vik mutant backgrounds, the BR-responsive genes BZR1, BRI1, CPD and TCH4 react normally to eBL treatment (data not shown and CITATION; CITATION). In vit, however, uninduced levels of BZR1, BRI1 and CPD are higher than in wild type, eBL inhibits CPD as in wild type and eBL causes greater induction of BZR1 and TCH4. Also in vit, BRI1 is up-regulated instead of down-regulated (Figure 8). To determine whether VIT and VIK are co-expressed with VH1/BRL2 in patterns that would permit their interaction during development, we characterized the expression patterns of all three genes, using a combination of GUS reporter expression, RT-PCR, laser microdissection and microarray data-mining. Consistent with previous studies (CITATION) VH1/BRL2 was expressed uniformly in early stage embryos and in organ primordia in a pattern progressively restricted to provascular and procambial cells. In leaves, expression ends with the differentiation of mature vascular elements (Figures S3 and S4). VIT exhibits a comparable highly dynamic expression pattern that overlaps VH1/BRL2 in all organs tested (Figure 9 and Figures S4 and S5). Transcripts for both are present in early stage embryos and in organ primordia in the shoot and in the root (Figure 9a,b,g–i,q; CITATION). In the embryo, in the root and in emerging secondary roots, expression of VIT is broad and more diffuse than VH1/BRL2 (Figure 9c–f,r,s and Figure S4). Although initially diffuse in leaf primordia, the two genes are co-expressed in a progressively restricted subset of leaf cells. In emerging and expanding primary leaves, VIT is expressed in hydathodes (Figure 9j–l and Figure S5c), guard cells (Figure 9l), certain petiole cells (Figure 9k,l and Figure S5c) and isolated cells or groups of cells associated with differentiating vascular bundles, apparently immature tracheary elements or xylem parenchyma (Figure 9k and Figure S5c). The same pattern is observed in cauline leaves (Figure 9m) and petals (Figure 9n). The xylem-associated cells are elongated and flank more mature xylem elements (Figure S5e), and are particularly evident at branching points in the vascular network (Figure 9l), although we were unable to identify the cell type unambiguously. VH1/BRL2 is present in the same cells (compare Figure S5e,f). In some cases multiple parallel aligned elongated cells expressed VIT. The VH1/BRL2-VIT-positive cells, individual or multiple, can be above, below or on the flank of differentiated xylem cells. A similar pattern has been reported for the ZINNIA CYSTEINE PROTEASE4 (ZCP4), identified by its transient induction during tracheary element differentiation (CITATION), and confirmed in vivo (CITATION). A GUS reporter analysis suggested that ZCP4 is expressed exclusively in elongated cells flanking differentiated xylem elements, similar to the pattern for VIT. Unlike VIT, for which this pattern is only observed in adult foliar organs, ZCP4 shows a similar pattern in all organs tested, and the authors concluded that it is a marker for immature tracheary elements (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] VIK is also expressed in vascular cells, but first appears at a distinctly later stage than VIT. We captured leaf mesophyll, epidermal, vascular (combined xylem, phloem and parenchymal) and guard cells from 1-month-old expanding Arabidopsis leaves, using laser microdissection, as part of a separate study of leaf cell transcriptomes (N.G., unpublished data). VIK transcripts are present in the vascular cells, not in epidermal, mesophyll or guard cells, when assayed by RT-PCR (Figure 10). The overlapping patterns and specificity of expression of VIK and VIT revealed by RT-PCR and by GUS reporter expression are confirmed by the mining of data from cell-specific transcriptomes obtained by microarray profiling. In expanding leaves, VIT is already present in the transcriptomes of provascular/procambial cells (early stage vascular) and more mature vascular cells, while VIK is found only in the more mature vascular cells (data not shown). It was not possible to resolve the contributions of subsets of vascular cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The PCR reactions were performed using High Fidelity Taq (Roche, http://www.roche-applied-science.com/) and constructs were confirmed by sequencing. Primer sequences are given in Table S6. For fusion of MBP with VH1, the intercellular domain (positions 2355–3352) of VH1kin, was amplified by PCR with BamHI sites at both ends. The pMALcR1 expression vector (New England Biolabs, http://www.neb.com/) was modified by introducing the sequence CGTCGTGCATCTGTT, encoding a target of kinase A (RRASV) between the EcoRI and BamHI sites creating the MBP* tag for labeling fusion protein probes. The amplified VH1kin digested product was cloned into the BamHI site. To create a carboxyl-terminal fusion of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) with VIT, the VIT cDNA was obtained from the ABRC (http://www.arabidopsis.org/abrc/), amplified by PCR, inserted in the pDONR201 vector and in the pDEST15 vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) by recombination following the manufacturer’s instructions. To create a GST::VIK fusion, the VIK cDNA was isolated using RT-PCR from RNA extracts of 1-week-old plants, amplified by PCR with BamHI and XhoI sites at either end and cloned into BamHI–XhoI-digested pGEX-4T-1 expression vector (Novagen, http://www.novagen.com/), downstream of the GST tag. To create deletion constructs of VIT and VIK, the VITTPR (positions 603–1678), VITTXL (positions 1692–2073), VIKANK (positions 1–307) and VIKKIN (positions 484–1315) cDNA fragments were amplified by PCR with EcoRI and XhoI sites on either ends. After purification and digestion, they were cloned in the EcoRI–XhoI-digested pGEX-4T1 vector. To obtain a fusion of MBP* with VIT, the VIT cDNA was amplified by PCR with SalI and PstI sites at the ends and cloned in the modified pMalcR1 vector containing a kinase A site. Constructs were transformed in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) codon plus (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/). MBP*::VH1 and MBP*::VIT were isolated following the procedure described in CITATION. GST::VIT and GST::VIK were batch-purified according to Novagen after 2 h 0.1 mm isopropylthiogalactoside induction. Purified fusion proteins were quantified by Bio-Rad protein assay (http://www.bio-rad.com/) and checked by western blot analysis using VH1 (CITATION), MBP (NEB) or GST (Sigma Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) antisera. One microgram of purified MBP*::VH1 was phosphorylated as described in CITATION. One microgram of purified MBP* or MBP*::VIT was phosphorylated using 5 units of bovine kinase A (Sigma Aldrich) and 10 μCi [γ32P] ATP (Amersham Biosciences, http://www.amersham.com/). Before use, the proteins were purified using MicroBioSpin chromatography columns (Bio-Rad). The phage expression CD4-13, CD4-14 and CD4-15 A. thaliana cDNA libraries from 3-day-old seedlings were obtained from the ABRC. Approximately 5 × 106 plaques were screened for each library, according to CITATION with the following variations: probe filters washed 3 × 30 min, 25 mm Hepes pH 7.5, 75 mm KC1, 0.1 mm EDTA, 2.5 mm MgCl2, 1% non-fat dry milk; dried filters exposed to x-ray film for 3–5 days. Positive phage were plaque-purified through three screens. Libraries probed with the labeled MBP* alone resulted in no signal after exposure for up to 9 days. For MBP*::VH1, screens of the three libraries resulted in the recovery of 66 clones, and for MBP*::VIT, the screen of the CD4-13 library resulted in 43 positive clones. Based on the primary screen intensities, the clones were classified as strong, medium or weak. The positive clones were isolated and the cDNA excised using the ExAssist helper phage (Stratagene) according to the manufacturer. The resulting bacterial colonies were grown and the plasmid DNA was isolated using Qiagen Spin Miniprep kit (http://www1.qiagen.com/) and sequenced. The following web resources were used for the bioinformatics analysis of the VH1 interaction candidates: NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) and TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/) for general protein characteristics and annotation; SignalIP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalIP) (CITATION) for the presence of a signal peptide; Myristoylator (http://expasy.org/tools/myristoylator) (CITATION), PrePS-prenylation (http://mendel.imp.ac.at/sat/PrePS/index.html) (CITATION) and Terminator (http://www.isv.cnrs-gif.fr.terminator2/index.html) (CITATION) for post-translational modification; DIPHOSPHO (http://core.ist.temple.edu/pred/pred.html) (CITATION) for phosphorylation target sites; Scansite (http://scansite.mit.edu/) (CITATION) and Prosite (http://ca.expasy.org/tools/scanprosite) (CITATION) for the presence of protein motifs and domains. Plants were grown as described in CITATION. For comparative studies, wild-type siblings from the same seed stocks were grown on the same plates as mutants. The SALK T-DNA database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) (CITATION) was searched for insertion lines in VH1 and in its interaction candidates and seeds were obtained from the ABRC stock center. For each insertion line, the presence of a single T-DNA insertion, its location within the gene and its co-segregation with the phenotype was confirmed. Plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were identified by PCR genotyping. For vh1, vit and vik mutant lines, RNA was extracted from plant material using TRIzol (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer. The RT-PCR was performed using 1 μg of extracted RNA and oligo-dT primers (Ambion, http://www.ambion.com/), followed by PCR with the appropriate primers (Table S6) and the Red Taq Ready Mix (Sigma Aldrich). Two-week-old seedlings were fixed and cleared as described in CITATION. After dissection, cotyledons and primary leaves were mounted on slides in 50% glycerol and observed under dark field illumination or in differential interference contrast (DIC) mode to view lignified tracheary elements within the xylem. Col-0 wild-type plants are presented in the figures as representative wild type, since vein patterns of wild-type siblings of each mutant were indistinguishable from Col-0. Thre micrograms of purified GST::VIT or GST::VIK and 5 μg of MBP::VH1kin were incubated for 2 h at 30°C in a MBP column buffer (CITATION), washed twice, incubated with amylose (NEB) or GST resin (Novagen), washed three times with the appropriate column buffer, resuspended in 1× SDS-sample buffer and boiled for 3 min. After separation on SDS-PAGE, the precipitated proteins were subjected to western Blot analysis using either GST, MBP or VH1 antisera. The deletion constructs bound to the GST beads (Novagen) were incubated with 1 μg of phosphorylated MBP*::VH1 at 24°C for 2 h, washed three times with GST column buffer, resuspended in 1× SDS-sample buffer and boiled for 4 min. The proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE followed by western blot analysis using GST, MBP or VH1 antisera. Reducing activity of MBP*::VIT or GST::VIT (not shown) and a human thioredoxin (Sigma Aldrich) positive control was measured as described in CITATION. The VIK kinase activity was measured as described in CITATION. Seeds were surface-sterilized in 20% bleach and plated on basal media plus the indicated amount of hormone. After 3 days at 4°C in the dark, plates were transferred to 22°C under constant light (∼300 μE m−2 sec−1) in a vertical position. After 3 days, seedlings were transferred to plates containing the indicated concentration of 2,4-D, NPA, eBL, ABA or GA3. Measurements of roots or hypocotyls were taken after 7 days. Experiments were repeated three times. Because root elongation is reduced in the vit mutant compared with Col-0 wild type (Figure S3), comparisons were made between plants of the same genotype, with and without hormone treatment. For hormone induction, seedlings were grown in basal liquid media under constant light at 24°C. After 7 days, IAA (20 μm), eBL (1 μm), ABA (100 μm) and GA3 (10 μm) were added to the media. Whole seedlings were collected 1 or 3 h later for RNA isolation, dried on Kimwipes, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. The room temperature reactions were performed as described above. The semiquantitative RT-PCR reactions were performed using the RedTaq Ready Mix (Sigma Aldrich) on 1 μl of cDNA and gene-specific primers (Table S6) at a final concentration of 0.25 μm. No genomic DNA was ever detected. Scanned gel bands were quantified with the Image J program (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). The value of the area obtained for each band was normalized to a tubulin (At3g18780) control. Laser microdissection (LM) of leaf cell types using the Arcturus PixCell IIe system (Molecular Devices, http://www.moleculardevices.com/), isolation of cell-specific RNA, and RT-PCR were performed as described in CITATION. Primers pairs are given in Table S6.
