!~ABS~! Many fungal parasites enter plant cells by penetrating the host cell wall and, thereafter, differentiate specialized intracellular feeding structures, called haustoria, by invagination of the plant’s plasma membrane. Arabidopsis PEN gene products are known to act at the cell periphery and function in the execution of apoplastic immune responses to limit fungal entry. This response underneath fungal contact sites is tightly linked with the deposition of plant cell wall polymers, including PMR4/GSL5-dependent callose, in the paramural space, thereby producing localized wall thickenings called papillae. We show that powdery mildew fungi specifically induce the extracellular transport and entrapment of the fusion protein GFP–PEN1 syntaxin and its interacting partner monomeric yellow fluorescent protein (mYFP)–SNAP33 within the papillary matrix. Remarkably, PMR4/GSL5 callose, GFP–PEN1, mYFP–SNAP33, and the ABC transporter GFP–PEN3 are selectively incorporated into extracellular encasements surrounding haustoria of the powdery mildew Golovinomyces orontii, suggesting that the same secretory defense responses become activated during the formation of papillae and haustorial encasements. This is consistent with a time-course analysis of the encasement process, indicating that these extracellular structures are generated through the extension of papillae. We show that PMR4/GSL5 callose accumulation in papillae and haustorial encasements occurs independently of PEN1 syntaxin. We propose a model in which exosome biogenesis/release serves as a common transport mechanism by which the proteins PEN1 and PEN3, otherwise resident in the plasma membrane, together with membrane lipids, become stably incorporated into both pathogen-induced cell wall compartments.
!~RES~! The PEN1 syntaxin has been shown to accumulate at sites of attempted fungal entry in interactions between Arabidopsis and the non-adapted barley (Hordeum vulgare) powdery mildew B. g. hordei, as well as the adapted powdery mildew G. cichoracearum (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate whether this is a specific response to powdery mildews, Arabidopsis plants expressing a functional GFP–PEN1 fusion protein were challenged with a range of different ascomycete pathogens that penetrate epidermal cells through the cuticle and cell wall. Cells underlying fungal appressoria were analyzed by confocal microscopy at 24 h post-inoculation (hpi) of seedling cotyledons. Accumulation of GFP–PEN1 was observed beneath the appressoria of two non-adapted powdery mildews, B. g. hordei (Figure 1a,b) and the pea powdery mildew E. pisi (Figure 1c,d), which typically fail to enter Arabidopsis epidermal cells, as indicated by the absence of haustoria. GFP–PEN1 also accumulated beneath appressoria of the adapted powdery mildew G. orontii (Figure 1e,f), both at successful penetration sites as well as failed entry sites. Quantitative analysis of interaction sites revealed that the adapted and non-adapted powdery mildews induced accumulation of GFP–PEN1 beneath differentiated appressoria with comparable frequency (Table S1). Thus, accumulation of PEN1 was not associated uniquely with failed mildew entry attempts and was triggered by both adapted and non-adapted mildew species. [[FIGURE]] Appressoria of the non-adapted rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, were never observed to penetrate Arabidopsis epidermal cells, as shown by the absence of intracellular hyphae (Figure 1h). Callosic papillae were deposited by host cells beneath appressoria (Figure S1a–d), but accumulation of GFP–PEN1 was never seen at these sites (Figures 1g and S1a–d). Similarly, the non-adapted Medicago anthracnose fungus, Colletotrichum destructivum, typically failed to enter Arabidopsis epidermal cells (Figure 1i,j), although 2–5% of sporelings entered epidermal cells, as indicated by the formation of intracellular primary hyphae beneath appressoria (Figure S1e–h). Callosic papillae were present at both successful (Figure S1e–h) and unsuccessful entry sites of C. destructivum (Figure 1i,j), but the accumulation of GFP–PEN1 was never observed at these sites. Entry rates of the adapted crucifer anthracnose fungus, Colletotrichum higginsianum, were higher than C. destructivum: typically 60–80% of appressoria formed primary hyphae. Following penetration by both Colletotrichum species, the host plasma membrane invaginated around the primary hyphae was labeled by GFP–PEN1, but the fluorescence intensity was similar to that of the normal plasma membrane (Figures 1k,l and S1e–h). Although the darkly melanized appressorial cell walls of M. grisea and Colletotrichum species may attenuate the apparent fluorescence intensity of GFP beneath appressoria, we obtained no evidence that any of these ascomycete fungi induce accumulation of GFP–PEN1 at attempted penetration sites, even though they penetrate epidermal cells in a similar manner to powdery mildew fungi (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, GFP–PEN1 did not accumulate at successful entry sites of the adapted oomycete pathogen H. parasitica (data not shown), which enters Arabidopsis epidermal cells from intercellular hyphae (CITATION). Taken together, these results suggest that accumulation of PEN1 may be a unique response of plant cells to attempted entry by powdery mildews. In previous studies on the adapted powdery mildew, G. cichoracearum, optical sectioning by confocal microscopy detected the presence of GFP–PEN1 within the interior of host papillae (CITATION). However, in the Arabidopsis–B. g. hordei interaction, plasmolysis experiments indicated that focal accumulation of GFP–PEN1 was associated with a plasma membrane microdomain rather than the papilla itself (CITATION). To clarify the location of PEN1 accumulation at attempted entry sites, we used both optical cross-sectioning and plasmolysis experiments. In the Arabidopsis–B. g. hordei interaction, optical sectioning at 12–16 hpi demonstrated that GFP–PEN1 fluorescence was uniformly distributed through the interior of papillae, but was excluded from fungal penetration pegs encased within papillae (Figure 2a,b). Next, we performed plasmolysis experiments on transgenic lines expressing either GFP–PEN1 (Figure 2c) or monomeric yellow fluorescent protein (mYFP)–SNAP33 fusion proteins (Movie S1). Cotyledons were plasmolyzed in 5 m sorbitol and imaged by confocal microscopy. In plasmolyzed epidermal cells, accumulation of GFP–PEN1 and mYFP–SNAP33 remained associated with papillae beneath appressoria. Weaker fluorescent labeling by both fusion proteins was uniformly distributed along the protoplast plasma membrane, without visible enrichment into membrane microdomains (Figure 2c and Movie S1). No GFP signal was detected in papillae formed in non-transgenic Arabidopsis inoculated with B. g. hordei, and the fluorescence emission spectrum associated with papillae formed in GFP–PEN1 transgenic plants was characteristic of GFP (not shown). Overall, this extends previous observations that in addition to the syntaxin PEN1 resident in the plasma membrane, its membrane-associated interacting partner SNAP33 also accumulates beneath powdery mildew appressoria. Furthermore, their concentration is extracellular, resulting from incorporation into discrete cell wall thickenings. Remarkably, GFP–PEN1 fluorescence could still be detected in papillae at 14 days post-inoculation (dpi; not shown), indicating that GFP remains stable outside the cell for extended periods of time. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Barley (Hordeum vulgare, cultivar Ingrid-10) and Arabidopsis plants were grown as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The following Arabidopsis thaliana mutant and transgenic lines were used in this study (all Col-0 background): pen1-1 and p35S::GFP–PEN1 in pen1-1 (CITATION), pmr4-1 (CITATION), p35S::GFP–SIMIP, p35S::GFP–Vamp3, p35S::GFP–PIP2a and p35S::GFP–LTI6b (CITATION), pn::mYFP–PEN1 in pen1-1 (CITATION), pn::GFP–VAMP722 in vamp722 and p35S::mYFP–SNAP33 in snap33 (the fusion protein rescues the snap33 lethality; CITATION), p35S::CFP–SYP122 in pen1-1 (CITATION), and pn::PEN3–GFP in pen3-1 (CITATION). Growth conditions, inoculation methods and infection assays for the pathogens used in this study were described in CITATION for B. g. hordei (isolate K1) and E. pisi (Birmingham isolate), in CITATION for G. orontii (strain MPIZ), in CITATION for M. grisea (isolate Haku 1-007), in CITATION for C. destructivum (isolate LARS 202) and C. higginsianum (isolate IMI34906I) and in CITATION for H. parasitica (isolate Noco2). The frequency of GFP–PEN1 accumulations beneath differentiated appressoria was scored on primary leaves of 2-week old plants expressing 35S::GFP–PEN1 in pen1-1. Three to seven plants (one leaf per plant, 100 interaction sites per leaf) were inspected at 24 hpi and analyzed by bright field and epifluorescence microscopy to visualize differentiated appressoria and GFP–PEN1 focal accumulations. To quantify callosic encasements, inoculated cotyledons were harvested at 3 dpi, cleared in ethanol/acetic acid (3:1) for 24 h and stained with aniline blue (in 150 mm KH2PO4, pH 9.5) and inspected by UV-light epifluorescence microscopy. In four independent experiments at least three plants (one leaf per plant, 100 interaction sites per leaf) were scored. Two-week old Arabidopsis seedlings were inoculated as described above. To stain for membrane lipids and callose, aqueous solutions of FM4-64 (17 μm; Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) or Sirofluor (0.1 mg ml−1; Biosupplies, http://www.biosupplies.com.au/products.htm) were vacuum-infiltrated into excised cotyledons 3 × 5 min. To analyze callosic papillae in barley, inoculated primary leaves were cut into pieces of length 1 cm and vacuum-infiltrated with Sirofluor (3 × 10 min). Marker proteins and fluorochromes were viewed using a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope (Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com/) equipped with an argon/helium–neon laser. The GFP was excited at 488 nm, mYFP was excited at 514 nm, FM4-64 was excited at 561 nm and a 405 nm diode laser was used to excite cCFP, Sirofluor and aniline blue. Images were analyzed and processed with Leica software (LCS Lite, Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com) and Adobe Photoshop 8.0. To monitor plasmolysis, cotyledons from 10-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings expressing fluorochrome-tagged SNARE proteins were mounted on microscope slides in 5 m sorbitol and imaged immediately by confocal microscopy. Haustoria of G. orontii were isolated from 4- to 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants heavily infected with the fungus at 7 dpi, using a protocol developed for the isolation of Colletotrichum lindemuthianum primary hyphae by isopycnic centrifugation (CITATION). Isolated cells were then processed for resin embedding as follows. Samples were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde, 0.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in 0.05 m sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), washed and dehydrated through a graded ethanol series. They were then incrementally infiltrated with LR white acrylic resin (London Resin Company, http://www.lrgold.com/), and polymerized at 50°C. Sections (700 nm) were cut and mounted onto poly-l-lysine-coated slides, stained with aniline blue and analyzed by confocal microscopy as described above.
