!~ABS~! In higher plants, the plane of cell division is faithfully predicted by the preprophase band (PPB). The PPB, a cortical ring of microtubules and F-actin, disassembles upon nuclear-envelope breakdown. During cytokinesis, the expanding cell plate fuses with the plasma membrane at the cortical division site, the site of the former PPB. The nature of the “molecular memory” that is left behind by the PPB and is proposed to guide the cell plate to the cortical division site is unknown. RanGAP is the GTPase activating protein of the small GTPase Ran, which provides spatial information for nucleocytoplasmic transport and various mitotic processes in animals. Here, we show that, in dividing root cells, Arabidopsis RanGAP1 concentrates at the PPB and remains associated with the cortical division site during mitosis and cytokinesis, requiring its N-terminal targeting domain. In a fass/ton2 mutant, which affects PPB formation, RanGAP1 recruitment to the PPB site is lost, while its PPB retention is microtubule-independent. RanGAP1 persistence at the cortical division site, but not its initial accumulation at the PPB requires the 2 cytokinesis-regulating kinesins POK1 and POK2. Depletion of RanGAP by inducible RNAi leads to oblique cell walls and cell-wall stubs in root cell files, consistent with cytokinesis defects. We propose that Arabidopsis RanGAP, a continuous positive protein marker of the plant division plane, has a role in spatial signaling during plant cell division.
!~RES~! The mitotic localization pattern of Arabidopsis RanGAP1 was revealed using indirect immunofluorescence in root tip cells. During preprophase, RanGAP1 was concentrated at the PPB [FIG-REF A and B and supporting information (SI) Movie S1]. Once the cell entered metaphase, the PPB disassembled, whereas RanGAP1 stayed at the position of the former PPB (cortical division site, CDS) until the end of cytokinesis (FIG-REFA). During metaphase, RanGAP1 also accumulated in several bright dots on chromosomes, resembling the kinetochore regions (FIG-REF A and Fig. S1). As the cells progressed into anaphase, RanGAP1 was found enriched around the spindle midzone in addition to remaining at the CDS (FIG-REF A and C). When the spindle midzone microtubules assembled into the phragmoplast, RanGAP1 was concentrated at the midline of the phragmoplast or the nascent cell plate and the CDS (FIG-REFA). None of the above-mentioned staining patterns was seen in a RanGAP1 null mutant (data not shown), confirming the specificity of the immunofluorescence signal. To monitor RanGAP1 localization throughout cell division, we performed real-time imaging of a 35S-promoter driven RanGAP1-GFP fusion protein in transgenic Arabidopsis roots. Except that RanGAP1-GFP accumulation on the phragmoplast midline was less evident, the fusion protein showed an essentially identical localization pattern compared with endogenous RanGAP1. In 43% of dividing cells, significant enrichment of RanGAP1 at the PPB and CDS was observed continuously throughout mitosis and cytokinesis (Table 1, Fig. S2, and Movie S2). Cells dividing without observable RanGAP1 concentration might either be below the detection limit of the assay, or suggest that the accumulation does not occur equally in all cells. The signal narrowed as the cells progressed from preprophase to metaphase and anaphase, similar to what has been observed for TANGLED (CITATION). In summary, a concentration of RanGAP1 was seen at the division plane from preprophase to cytokinesis, making RanGAP1, after TANGLED, the second continuous positive protein marker of the plant division plane. [[FIGURE]] Number of cells observed with RanGAP1 (or its derivatives) concentrated at the PPB and CDS in different backgrounds Arabidopsis RanGAP1 has a plant-unique WPP domain that is necessary and sufficient for its targeting to the nuclear envelope during interphase and to the phragmoplast midline/cell plate during cytokinesis (CITATION, CITATION). When a RanGAP1WPP/AAP-GFP (with key residues WPP mutated to AAP) fusion protein was tracked through mitosis in Arabidopsis roots, the protein was diffusely distributed throughout the cytoplasm without concentration at the PPB, kinetochore region, or CDS (Table 1 and Fig. S3A). This indicates that the WPP motif is necessary for the mitotic targeting of RanGAP1, likely through interaction with protein partners. To investigate whether the WPP domain is also sufficient for RanGAP1 targeting during mitosis, localization of a fusion protein between the WPP domain and GFP (RanGAP1ΔC-GFP) was monitored by immunofluorescence. Similar to full-length RanGAP1, RanGAP1ΔC-GFP was targeted to the PPB, kinetochore region, CDS, and cell plate (Table 1 and Fig. S3B), indicating that the WPP domain is the targeting domain for RanGAP1 throughout cell cycle. RanGAP1 concentrates at the CDS after the PPB disassembles, indicating that its retention at the CDS does not require microtubules. Consistently, when PPB microtubules were disrupted with oryzalin, RanGAP1 accumulation at the PPB site persisted, pointing to a microtubule-independent mechanism for anchoring RanGAP1 at the PPB (FIG-REFA). Mutants of FASS/TONNEAU2, a putative regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2A, lack a preprophase band before mitosis and fail to guide the phragmoplast properly (CITATION). In ton2-14 mutant cells, RanGAP1 still accumulated around the kinetochore, spindle midzone and phragmoplast midline/cell plate, while no RanGAP1 concentration could be detected corresponding to the PPB or CDS (FIG-REFB and Table 1). The lack of RanGAP1 concentration at the PPB/CDS in ton2-14 suggests that either FASS/TONNEAU2 plays a direct role in directing RanGAP1 targeting or that FASS/TONNEAU2 is required for PPB assembly and the PPB in turn both recruits RanGAP1 and sets up a mechanism for its subsequent retention. [[FIGURE]] Two other players have been implicated in the spatial regulation of plant cytokinesis. POK1 and POK2 are 2 redundant kinesins whose mutations affect the guidance of the phragmoplast toward the CDS (CITATION). In pok1-1 pok2-1 mutants (FIG-REFA and Table 1) and pok1-2 pok2-2 mutants (Table 1), RanGAP1 accumulated at the PPB, kinetochore region and spindle midzone. Significantly, however, no evident RanGAP1 concentration could be detected at the cell periphery corresponding to a CDS association (Table 1). These data show that RanGAP1 persistence at the CDS, but not its initial accumulation at the PPB requires POK1 and POK2. [[FIGURE]] To test whether this effect could be based on direct binding of RanGAP1 to the POK kinesins, we investigated their interaction after transient expression in N. benthamiana. Fig. S4A shows that both full-length RanGAP1 and the N-terminal WPP domain bind POK1C, the C-terminal fragment of POK1 also shown to bind to TANGLED (CITATION). The RanGAP1WPP/AAP-GFP mutant, which does not accumulate at the CDS has significantly reduced affinity for POK1C. In addition, both POK1C and full-length POK1 bind the WPP-domain of RanGAP1 in a yeast 2-hybrid assay (Fig. S4 B and C). Like RanGAP1, TANGLED was shown to positively label the PPB and CDS and to interact with the C-terminal domain of POK1 (CITATION). When endogenous RanGAP1 was imaged in the TANGLED mutant allele tan-csh, mitotic targeting of RanGAP1 remained relatively normal (Fig. S5 and Table 1). It has to be noted, however, that all published tan mutant alleles have only very weak phenotypes. It is therefore possible that RanGAP1 localization might be affected in a stronger tan mutant background. Arabidopsis RanGAP1 concentration at the nuclear envelope in nondifferentiated root tip cells is dependent on a group of nuclear pore-associated proteins (WIPs) (CITATION). However, WIPs appear dispensable for RanGAP1 phragmoplast midline/cell plate targeting during cytokinesis (CITATION). Similarly, the mitotic targeting of RanGAP1 to the PPB, kinetochore, or CDS does not depend on WIPs, supporting the notion that different mechanisms are involved in targeting plant RanGAP at different cell cycle stages (FIG-REFB). The functional investigation of mitotic plant RanGAP is non-trivial for several reasons. First, depleting RanGAP likely affects interphase nucleocytoplasmic transport, which could conceivably lead to pleiotropic downstream effects. Second, Arabidopsis RanGAP is encoded by a family of 2 highly similar genes (63% identity and 80% similarity at the amino acid level) with similar expression patterns, expected to act redundantly. And third, RanGAP activity is likely essential, and a complete loss-of function mutant is therefore expected to be lethal. We isolated T-DNA insertion mutants for RanGAP1 and RanGAP2 and applied 2 specific polyclonal antisera to investigate protein levels (see Materials and Methods for details). Both the RanGAP1 mutant allele rg1-1 and the RanGAP2 mutant allele rg2-3 are likely null alleles based on the absence of detectable protein (Fig. S6). Both rg1-1 and rg2-3 were phenotypically normal, suggesting that the 2 copies of RanGAP are indeed functionally redundant (data not shown). A cross between rg1-1 and rg2-3 showed that the rg1-1 rg2-3 double mutant is gametophyte lethal (T.R.-P., X.M.X., and I.M., unpublished data), suggesting that RanGAP activity is essential in plants. In light of these findings, an inducible RNAi strategy was instead explored. Two constructs were made to specifically deplete RanGAP1 in the rg2-3 background (RanGAP1RNAi/rg2-3) or RanGAP2 in the rg1-1 background (RanGAP2RNAi/rg1-1). Identical phenotypes were achieved from both constructs (see below). The phenotype was dependent on the homozygosity of the corresponding T-DNA insertion background. A line that contained a truncated RanGAP1RNAi construct in rg2-3 that did not deplete RanGAP1 was used as a control against artifacts caused by the induction conditions (FIG-REFA). It behaved identical to the RNAi lines under uninduced conditions shown below (data not shown). Only data observed for RanGAP1RNAi/rg2-3 are described below. [[FIGURE]] After 4–9 days of induction, there was a pronounced reduction of RanGAP1 level in the roots of RanGAP1RNAi/rg2-3 plants (≈70% reduction, FIG-REFA) compared with uninduced control plants, with a lesser reduction in shoots (≈40% reduction, data not shown). Immunofluorescence experiments with the anti-RanGAP1 antibody showed that the level of RanGAP1 was not depleted equally in all cells, with some cells, especially toward the root tip, still showing RanGAP1 signal at the nuclear envelope (data not shown). At this stage, induced plants had shorter roots with swollen root tips (FIG-REFB). Under higher magnification, this phenotype resembled the previously reported radially swollen mutants (CITATION, CITATION). No obvious shoot phenotype was detected, possibly based on the less severe RanGAP1 depletion in shoots. The swollen root phenotype might conceivably be a currently not understood interphase effect on directional cell expansion, downstream of nucleocytoplasmic partitioning or other unknown functions of RanGAP. When the root tips were examined closely, oblique cell walls and cell wall stubs were found frequently in induced RanGAP1RNAi/rg2-3 plants, suggesting aberrant cell division events (FIG-REFC). This was in contrast to the consistently orderly cell files in control plants. These effects were very similar to those observed in tan and pok1 pok2 mutants (CITATION, CITATION). To further investigate whether mitotic figures were affected, we attempted to capture RanGAP-depleted cells during cell division and investigate the microtubule structures. However, this approach failed due to the near-absence of dividing cells in the growth-arrested roots in combination with the uneven RanGAP depletion levels. Although we can therefore—with the tools at hand—not exclude that the misplaced cell walls are downstream effects of interphase functions of RanGAP, we note the strong correlation between RanGAP1 localization at the PPB and CDS, its interaction with known cell plate positioning regulators, and the depletion phenotypes consistent with cell plate-positioning defects, all indicating a role for RanGAP during cytokinesis.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis seedlings (Columbia and Wassilewskija ecotype) were grown in soil under standard long-day condition (16 h light and 8 h dark) or on MS (Caisson Laboratories) plates under constant light. Mutant rg1-1 (SALK_058630, with a T-DNA inserted ≈720 bp downstream of the RanGAP1 start codon) was acquired from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). Mutant rg2-3 (FLAG_184A06, with the T-DNA insertion ≈190 bp upstream of the RanGAP2 start codon) was obtained from the Versailles T-DNA lines collection (CITATION). Homozygous insertion plants were identified by PCR genotyping (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html). The mutant line wip1-1 wip2-1 wip3-1 and transgenic plants expressing RanGAP1-GFP, RanGAP1WPP/AAP-GFP, and RanGAP1ΔC-GFP were described in ref. CITATION. Mutant or marker lines ton2-14 (CITATION), pok1 pok2 (CITATION), and HTR12-GFP (CITATION) were previously described. For Dex-inducible RNAi, the first 334 nt of the RanGAP1 coding region and the last 478 nt of the RanGAP2 coding region were cloned into pENTR3C and pENTR/D-TOPO, respectively. The target fragments were subsequently recombined into destination vector pOpOff2(hyg) (CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were selected on MS plates containing Hygromycin (35 μg/ml) and CEFOTAXIM (125 μg/ml) after Agrobacterium transformation. A line recovered from this transformation that carried a truncated transgene and did not lead to RanGAP depletion was used as a control (FIG-REFA). For induction, seedlings were either germinated directly on or transferred to MS plates containing Dex (10 μM; Sigma), whereas ethanol (solvent) was used for control treatments. Immunolabeling and confocal microscopy were performed as described in ref. CITATION and as detailed in SI Materials and Methods. Development of the anti-RanGAP1 antibody has been described in ref. CITATION. For the anti-RanGAP2 antibody, full length RanGAP2 protein was expressed as a His-tag fusion protein using the pDEST17 vector (Invitrogen). After purification of the recombinant protein with a Ni-NTA resin column and excision from a preparative SDS/PAGE gel, a guinea pig antiserum was produced by Cocalico Biologicals (Reamstown, PA).
