!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) has an important role for plant growth, development, and stress adaptation. HYPERSENSITIVE TO ABA1 (HAB1) is a protein phosphatase type 2C that plays a key role as a negative regulator of ABA signaling; however, the molecular details of HAB1 action in this process are not known. A two-hybrid screen revealed that SWI3B, an Arabidopsis thaliana homolog of the yeast SWI3 subunit of SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complexes, is a prevalent interacting partner of HAB1. The interaction mapped to the N-terminal half of SWI3B and required an intact protein phosphatase catalytic domain. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation and coimmunoprecipitation assays confirmed the interaction of HAB1 and SWI3B in the nucleus of plant cells. swi3b mutants showed a reduced sensitivity to ABA-mediated inhibition of seed germination and growth and reduced expression of the ABA-responsive genes RAB18 and RD29B. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments showed that the presence of HAB1 in the vicinity of RD29B and RAB18 promoters was abolished by ABA, which suggests a direct involvement of HAB1 in the regulation of ABA-induced transcription. Additionally, our results uncover SWI3B as a novel positive regulator of ABA signaling and suggest that HAB1 modulates ABA response through the regulation of a putative SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex.
!~RES~! A yeast two-hybrid screen was used to identify proteins that interact with the PP2C HAB1. Preliminary experiments revealed that full-length HAB1 fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain (GBD) resulted in the activation of HIS3 and ADE2 reporters from the AH109 yeast strain used in this study (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). N-terminal truncation of some clade A PP2Cs (CITATION) is required to reduce their potential to activate transcription (CITATION; this work). Indeed, the N-terminal 1 to 180 amino acid residues either from HAB1 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) or from the closely related PP2C HAB2, when fused to the GBD, generated a powerful transcriptional activator. Thus, only the catalytic region (amino acid residues 179 to 511) of the PP2C HAB1 (ΔNHAB1) was used as a bait to screen an Arabidopsis expression library containing random cDNAs fused to the GAL4 activation domain (GAL) in the pACT2 vector (CITATION). This N-terminal truncation of HAB1 showed approximately twofold higher phosphatase activity than full-length HAB1 (Figure 1B ). From 106 colonies screened, 20 positive clones that showed autotrophic growth in medium lacking both adenine and His were selected. Sequence analysis of the recovered pACT2 clones revealed that 11 of the 20 putative interacting preys contained the full-length cDNA from SWI3B. Therefore, these results indicate that AtSWI3B is a prevalent HAB1-interacting partner in a two-hybrid screening. [[FIGURE]] Protein domain analysis using the PFAM database of global domain hidden Markov models and different pattern and profile searches in Expasy (http://www.expasy.org) served to identify SWIRM (48 to 136), SANT (224 to 272), and Leu zipper domains (399 to 452) in the SWI3B amino acid sequence, in agreement with previous findings from CITATION. Additionally, we could identify a ZZ zinc finger domain (Cys-x2-Cys motifs plus a conserved YDL motif) between amino acid residues 169 and 208. A similar ZZ zinc finger domain was identified in Arabidopsis SWI3C by CITATION. In order to determine specific regions of SWI3B involved in the interaction with ΔNHAB1, different deletions of the SWI3B coding sequence in the prey vector pACT2 were generated. Previously, we confirmed that a combination of the empty pGBT9 plasmid and pACT2-SWI3B did not activate transcription of the HIS3 and ADE2 reporter genes (Figure 1A); moreover, none of the deletion constructs activated transcription in the absence of bait protein interactors. In combination with the bait construct pGBT9-ΔNHAB1, the deletion constructs C1 and C2 activated transcription of the reporter genes to the same levels as full-length SWI3B (Figure 1A). This result mapped the HAB1-interacting domain to the first 220 amino acid residues of SWI3B. In agreement with this result, the prey construct N1 did not activate the reporter genes in the growth assay. Further attempts to delimit the minimal region of SWI3B that interacted with ΔNHAB1 failed, as additional deletions affecting the N-terminal half of SWI3B (SWIRM and ZZ prey constructs) eliminated the interaction with ΔNHAB1. In order to clarify the specificity of the interaction, we examined whether other SWI3-like proteins from Arabidopsis showed interaction with ΔNHAB1. In contrast with SWI3B, none of the SWI3A, SWI3C, or SWI3D proteins interacted with ΔNHAB1 (Figure 1A, middle). This result highlights the remarkable functional diversification previously described for the four SWI3-like proteins from Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). HAB1 belongs to a group of PP2Cs (clade A; CITATION) in which six of the identified genes are associated with ABA signaling. Gene expression data and genetic analysis indicate that HAB1, PP2CA, ABI1, and ABI2 play a predominant role in ABA signaling in both seeds and vegetative tissue (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch). Therefore, we generated N-terminal truncations of PP2CA, ABI1, and ABI2 fused to GBD and their interaction with SWI3B was examined (Figure 1A, bottom). ΔNPP2CA, ΔNABI1, and ΔNABI2 were able to interact with SWI3B, although it was apparent in the growth assay that the interaction was weaker than that observed for ΔNHAB1. All fusion proteins were expressed at similar levels, as verified by protein gel blot analysis using antibodies against the GAD and GBD. Finally, in order to examine the role of the catalytic PP2C domain in the interaction with SWI3B, a point-mutated version of HAB1 that replaced Gly-246 for Asp (G246D hab1) was introduced in the two-hybrid test. The Gly-246 is localized in a conserved motif from eukaryotic PP2Cs, and its replacement by Asp interferes with Mg2+ binding and strongly impairs PP2C activity (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, both G246D hab1 (CITATION) and G246D ΔNhab1 (Figure 1B) show <3% in vitro activity than the wild type. Interestingly, G246D ΔNhab1 did not interact with SWI3B in the two-hybrid assay, indicating that a functional catalytic domain of HAB1 is required for its interaction with SWI3B (Figure 1C). To determine the subcellular localization of HAB1 and SWI3B proteins in plant cells, we performed in vivo targeting experiments in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana). To this end, 35S:HAB1-GFP and 35S:SWI3B-GFP constructs were generated and delivered into leaf cells of tobacco by Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration (CITATION). Coexpression of bZIP63-YFPN and bZIP63-YFPC served as a positive control for localization of a nuclear protein (CITATION). In the case of SWI3B, strong green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence was observed in the nucleus of tobacco cells, whereas HAB1 localized in both the nucleus and the cytosol (Figure 2A ). Similar results were obtained when the coding region of HAB1 was fused to the C-terminal end of GFP (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Finally, ABA treatment did not modify the subcellular localization of either HAB1-GFP or SWI3B-GFP under our experimental conditions (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] In addition to using GFP fusions, we examined the subcellular localization of HAB1 by standard biochemical techniques. To this end, we generated transgenic lines (in a hab1-1 background) that expressed a double hemagglutinin (HA) epitope–tagged version of HAB1 (HAB1-dHA) under the control of the HAB1 native promoter. HAB1-dHA efficiently complemented the ABA-hypersensitive phenotype of hab1-1 in germination assays (CITATION). HAB1-dHA could be detected in both the cytosolic and nuclear fractions (Figure 2B). Washing of the nuclei/organelles with a buffer containing 0.5% Triton X-100 released a significant amount of HAB1-dHA (W fraction), which we assume to be of nuclear origin according to the localization of HAB1-GFP and GFP-HAB1 fusions. Additionally, a fraction of HAB1-dHA was associated with the nuclear insoluble fraction, which contains the major histones and is mostly composed of chromatin (CITATION; CITATION). Finally, HAB1-dHA was also detected in a nuclear soluble fraction that was obtained by rupture of the nuclei and extraction with a buffer containing 0.4 M NaCl. An estimation of the cytosolic:nuclear HAB1 ratio was made based on protein blot analysis with the anti-HA antibody. Figure 2C shows an approximately threefold difference in HAB1 abundance between the cytosolic and combined nuclear fractions. Taking into account the additional fourfold enrichment during the nuclei isolation process before protein gel loading, the HAB1 cytosolic:nuclear ratio was ∼12:1. Treatment with 50 μM ABA for 1 h did not substantially modify this ratio (Figure 2C). Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays were used to detect the interaction between HAB1 and SWI3B in plant cells. To this end, HAB1 was translationally fused to the C-terminal 84–amino acid portion of yellow fluorescent protein (YFPC) in the pSPYCE vector, which generated a HAB1-epitope HA-YFPC fusion protein (Figure 3B ). For the other partner, the N-terminal half of SWI3B was translationally fused to the N-terminal 155–amino acid portion of yellow fluorescent protein (YFPN) in the pSPYNE vector, which generated a SWI3B-epitope myc-YFPN fusion protein (Figure 3B). The corresponding constructs were codelivered into leaf cells of tobacco by Agrobacterium infiltration and, as a result, fluorescence was observed in the nucleus of tobacco cells (Figure 3A, left). No fluorescence signal was observed when pSPYCE-HAB1 vector was codelivered with pSPYNE or when pSPYNE-SWI3B was codelivered with pSPYCE. Moreover, in agreement with the previous finding in the two-hybrid assay, introduction of the G246D mutation in the sequence of HAB1 abolished the interaction with SWI3B in the BiFC assay (Figure 3A, right). [[FIGURE]] In addition to the observed BiFC fluorescent signal, we confirmed the interaction by coimmunoprecipitation of HAB1 and SWI3B in tobacco protein extracts prepared from the BiFC assay described above (Figure 3B). HAB1 and SWI3B can be coimmunoprecipitated, as we could detect SWI3B in the immunocomplex precipitated with an antibody to epitope HA, which pulls down the HAB1-HA-YFPC fusion protein (Figure 3B). By contrast, introduction of the G246D mutation in the sequence of HAB1 prevented the coimmunoprecipitation of SWI3B (Figure 3B). Thus, results from two in planta assays support the interaction between HAB1 and SWI3B. Finally, BiFC assays showed that PP2CA, ABI1, and ABI2 were able to interact with SWI3B in the nucleus of tobacco cells (Figure 3C). Expression of fusion proteins was verified by protein gel blot analysis using antibodies against the epitope HA and peptide comprising amino acids 3 to 17 of GFP (anti-GFPN) (Figure 3D). ABA treatment (50 μM for 1 h) did not change the interaction of the PP2Cs and SWI3B. However, complex formation in BiFC is essentially irreversible, which prevents the imaging of changes in the protein association state (CITATION). The swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 knockout mutants (Figure 4A ) were previously reported to be embryo-lethal (CITATION); therefore, we decided to examine heterozygous mutants for phenotypic effects. Phenotypic effects caused by gene haploinsufficiency (monoallelic expression and heterozygosis) have been described in mutants affected in diverse components of the chromatin-remodeling machinery (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For instance, heterozygous mice that have a single copy of either BRG1 (the mammalian orthologous gene of the yeast Swi2/Snf2 ATPase) or SNF5 (a core component of the SWI/SNF complex) are predisposed to different tumors, indicating that a full dosage of both BRG1 and SNF5 is required for proper control of gene expression and tumor suppression (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we decided to analyze ABA responsiveness in the progeny of Arabidopsis swi3b +/− seedlings, which represents an ∼2:1 mixture of heterozygous and wild-type seeds (CITATION). Thus, the progeny from swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 heterozygous plants were analyzed to score ABA-mediated inhibition of germination and growth. These assays revealed a reduced sensitivity to ABA of swi3b +/− seeds and seedlings compared with the wild type (Figures 4B and 4C). This phenotype was particularly apparent in growth assays, as after 10 d in 10 μM ABA both swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 +/− seedlings showed ∼80 to 90% higher weight than wild-type seedlings (Figure 4C). By contrast, water-loss assays did not show significant differences between wild-type and swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 +/− plants (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). Nevertheless, since ∼50% reduction in the expression of SWI3B (see Supplemental Figure 3B online ) led to reduced sensitivity to ABA in germination and growth assays, these results suggest that SWI3B is a positive regulator of ABA signaling. [[FIGURE]] Further evidence of the role of SWI3B in ABA signaling was obtained through the analysis of point mutations in swi3b alleles that were recovered by the Arabidopsis TILLING (for targeting-induced local lesions in genomes) program (http://tilling.fhcrc.org:9366/home.html) in a Columbia (Col)–er105 background. Thus, two new swi3b alleles were identified, swi3b-3 and swi3b-4, which resulted in the substitution of Asp-245 by Asn and Ser-264 by Phe, respectively. Both Asp-245→Asn and Ser-264→Phe mutations are localized in the SANT domain of SWI3B and, according to SIFT (for sorting intolerant from tolerant) software analysis, are predicted to affect protein function (SIFT score < 0.05) (CITATION). Analysis of ABA-mediated inhibition of germination in swi3b-3 and swi3b-4 revealed that both mutants showed a reduced sensitivity to ABA in this assay compared with the Col-er105 background (where TILLING mutants were originated) (Figure 4D). In particular, the swi3b-3 mutant also showed a reduced sensitivity to ABA-mediated inhibition of early growth (Figure 4E). These results, together with those of swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 +/− seedlings, show that SWI3B is a positive regulator of ABA signaling that mediates the ABA response in seeds and vegetative tissue. Additionally, we wondered whether SWI3B might play a role in the regulation of gene expression in response to ABA. SWI3B is a putative core component of SWI/SNF complexes, and chromatin remodelers have a well-established role in transcriptional regulation. Therefore, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to analyze the expression of the ABA-responsive RD29B, RAB18, KIN1, RD22, RD29A, and P5CS1 genes in the wild type and the swi3b-3 mutant (Figure 4F). In general terms, these gene markers show low expression in the absence of ABA or stress treatment, which is upregulated in response to the inductive signal. Upon ABA treatment, expression of RD29B and RAB18 in swi3b-3 was 15 and 6%, respectively, of that found in the wild type, whereas expression of the other gene markers did not differ more than twofold in both genotypes. Thus, SWI3B appears to regulate a subset of ABA-inducible genes, whereas its function seems to be partially dispensable or redundant for the expression of other ABA-responsive genes. Finally, to further characterize the genetic relationship between the ABA-hypersensitive locus hab1-1 and the ABA-insensitive locus swi3b-3, we generated a hab1-1swi3b-3 double mutant. Analysis of ABA-mediated inhibition of germination (Figure 4G) and early seedling growth (Figure 4H) revealed that hab1-1swi3b-3 showed an ABA-insensitive phenotype, in contrast with hab1-1, which indicates that SWI3B is epistatic to HAB1; therefore, HAB1 functions upstream of SWI3B in the ABA signaling pathway. In addition to reduced sensitivity to ABA in the assays described above, the swi3b-3 allele showed both impaired vegetative and reproductive growth (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), which likely reflects the key role of SWI3B in plant growth and development as a core component of diverse SWI/SNF complexes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In agreement with this role, combination of the swi3b-3 and swi3b-2 alleles was embryo-lethal (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The interaction of HAB1 and SWI3B as well as the phenotype of swi3b mutants suggest that HAB1 modulates ABA response through the regulation of a putative SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex. In order to analyze the presence of HAB1 in plant chromatin and the putative influence of ABA on it, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments. To this end, we used the hab1-1 transgenic line complemented by HAB1-dHA described above and demonstrated that HAB1-dHA could be immunoprecipitated using a monoclonal antibody to HA peptide (Figure 5A ). ChIP experiments were performed on formaldehyde–cross-linked chromatin extracted from either hab1-1 or hab1-1∷ProHAB1-HAB1-dHA plants. Genomic DNA fragments that coimmunoprecipitated with HAB1-dHA were analyzed by RT-qPCR (Figures 5B to 5D). To this end, we used different primer pairs that covered the promoters of the ABA-responsive genes RD29B and RAB18 as well as a control gene, β-ACT8, which is not responsive to ABA (CITATION). Aliquots of the total chromatin input were previously used to provide a quantitative measurement of the DNA input present in each sample, and DNA amounts present in ChIP precipitates were measured using cycle threshold values from RT-qPCR amplification curves (see Methods). Figures 5B and 5C show that the amounts of RD29B and RAB18 promoter DNAs immunoprecipitated from the HAB1-dHA transgenic plants were over 40- and 10-fold higher, respectively, than that precipitated from hab1-1 control plants, whereas the amount of β-ACT8 promoter DNA immunoprecipitated was very similar in both cases (Figure 5D). Interestingly, HAB1 was enriched in those regions of the RD29B and RAB18 promoters that were close to ABA-responsive elements and TATA boxes, and after treatment with 50 μM ABA for 1 h the presence of HAB1 in these regions was abolished (Figures 5B and 5C). 35S-HAB1 lines showed reduced expression of ABA-inducible genes compared with the wild type (CITATION); conversely, the hab1-1 loss-of-function mutant showed twofold higher expression of ABA-inducible genes than the wild type (CITATION). These data, together with ChIP results, suggest that HAB1 might repress ABA-induced transcription through direct chromatin interaction and that ABA treatment seems to release such inhibition. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Col) and tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants were routinely grown under greenhouse conditions in pots containing a 1:3 perlite:soil mixture. For in vitro culture, Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized by treatment with 70% ethanol for 20 min, followed by commercial bleach (2.5%) containing 0.05% Triton X-100 for 10 min, and finally, four washes with sterile distilled water. Stratification of the seeds was conducted during 3 d at 4°C. Afterward, seeds were sown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates containing solid medium composed of MS basal salts and 1% sucrose, solidified with 1% agar, and pH was adjusted to 5.7 with KOH before autoclaving. Plates were sealed and incubated in a controlled-environment growth chamber at 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod at 80 to 100 μE·m−2·s−1. The swi3b-1 (Koncz_2208) and swi3b-2 (GABI_302G08) alleles are T-DNA mutants in the Col background. They were kindly provided by G. Rios and have been described previously (CITATION). TILLING mutants were obtained through the Arabidopsis TILLING project, which performed a high-throughput reverse genetic screening to identify ethyl methanesulfonate–induced mutations in the Col-er105 background (CITATION). As a result, two alleles were identified, swi3b-3 and swi3b-4, which showed changes with SIFT score < 0.05 and, therefore, were predicted to be deleterious to the gene product (CITATION). These mutants were backcrossed once with Col-er105, and F2 homozygous mutants were genotyped by PCR amplification and DNA sequencing using the primers F1261 and R1560. In the case of swi3b-3, a second backcross was done with Col, and F2 swi3b-3 mutants lacking the er105 mutation were selected. In order to generate the hab1-1swi3b-3 double mutant, we transferred pollen of swi3b-3 (Col background) to the stigmas of emasculated flowers of hab1-1 (Col background). The resulting F2 individuals were genotyped by PCR for the presence of the double mutant. The HAB1 coding sequence was excised from a pSK-HAB1 construct (CITATION) using EcoRI-SalI double digestion and subcloned into EcoRI-SalI doubly digested pGBT9 to generate an in-frame fusion with the GBD. To generate the HAB1 deletion, the HAB1 sequence encoding the catalytic PP2C region (amino acid residues 179 to 511; ΔNHAB1) was amplified by PCR and blunt-end-cloned into the EcoRV site from pBluescript SK+ (Stratagene). The ΔNHAB1 coding sequence was excised with EcoRI-SalI and subcloned into pGBT9. The pGBT9-ΔNHAB1 bait was transformed into the yeast strain AH109 (BD Biosciences). An oligo(dT)-primed cDNA library prepared in plasmid pACT2 using mRNA from an Arabidopsis cell suspension was kindly provided by K. Salchert (CITATION). Yeast host AH109 carrying the pGBT9-ΔNHAB1 bait was transformed with 100 μg of DNA from the pACT2 cDNA library, then the cells were plated on SCD medium lacking Leu and Trp. Approximately 106 clones were obtained, and upon plating in SCD medium lacking Leu, Trp, His, and adenine, 20 clones containing putative interacting preys were selected. Yeast DNA was recovered and electroporated into Escherichia coli strain MC1065. pACT2 clones containing putative interacting preys were sequenced and retransformed into yeast strain AH109 carrying either the empty vector pGBT9 or pGBT9-ΔNHAB1 bait in order to verify true positives. The PP2CA cDNA was obtained from the ABRC (clone M76G17STM). The PP2CA sequence encoding the catalytic PP2C region (amino acid residues 90 to 399) was amplified using the primers FDNPP2CA and RPP2CA. The PCR product was cloned into the pCR8/GW/TOPO entry vector (Invitrogen), and the ΔNPP2CA-coding sequence was excised with EcoRI-SalI and subcloned into pGBT9. The ABI1 and ABI2 cDNAs were kindly provided by Erwin Grill and have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The ABI1 sequence encoding the catalytic PP2C region (amino acid residues 122 to 433) was excised using EcoRI-PstI double digestion and subcloned into pGBKT7 to generate pGBKT7-ΔNABI1. The ABI2 sequence encoding the catalytic PP2C region (amino acid residues 96 to 423; ΔNHAB2) was excised using ScaI-SalI double digestion and subcloned into pGBT9 to generate pGBT9-ΔNABI2. pACT2-SWI3B-C1 was generated from the pACT2-SWI3B full-length cDNA recovered from the two-hybrid screening through XhoI digestion and subsequent religation. pACT2-SWI3B-C2, pACT2-SWI3B-N1, pACT2-SWIRM, and pACT2-ZZ were generated through PCR-mediated amplification using the following primer pairs, respectively: FATG and R660, F661 and R1410, FATG and R420, and F400 and R660. Constructs that express fusion proteins between the GAD and SWI3A, SWI3B, SWI3C, or SWI3D in the centromeric vector pPC86 were kindly provided by J.C. Reyes (CABIMER), and they have been described by CITATION. Protein fusion between the GBD and ΔNHAB1 were generated in the multicopy vector pGBT9 for the yeast two-hybrid screening or the centromeric vector pDBLeu for targeted interaction assays with SWI3-like proteins. The G246D mutation was introduced into the pGBT9-ΔNHAB1 construct through replacement of a BglII-EcoRV fragment of HAB1 with a PCR-mutagenized version (see below). Constructs to investigate the subcellular localization of HAB1 and SWI3B were generated in Gateway-compatible vectors. To this end, the coding sequences of HAB1 and SWI3B were PCR-amplified using the following primer pairs, respectively: FBamHI and Rno-stop, and FATG and R1407no-stop. The PCR products were cloned into the pCR8/GW/TOPO entry vector (Invitrogen) and recombined by LR reaction into the pMDC83 destination vector (CITATION). Constructs to investigate in planta interaction using BiFC assays were made in the pSPYNE-35S and pSPYCE-35S vectors (CITATION) as well as the Gateway vector pYFPN43 (kindly provided by A. Ferrando, Universidad de Valencia). The coding sequences of HAB1 and G246D hab1 were excised from pCR8/GW/TOPO constructs using double digestion with BamHI-StuI and subcloned into pSPYCE doubly digested BamHI-SmaI. The N-terminal half of SWI3B was excised from a pSK-SWI3B construct using double digestion with BamHI-DraI and subcloned into pSPYNE and pSPYCE doubly digested BamHI-SmaI. Constructs in which the basic Leu zipper TF bZIP63 is cloned in pSPYNE-35S and pSPYCE-35S were kindly provided by J. Kudla (University of Münster). The coding sequences of ABI1, ABI2, and PP2CA were PCR-amplified and cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO and recombined by LR reaction into the pYFPN43 destination vector. The coding region of the HAB1 cDNA (CITATION) was PCR-amplified using the primers FSphI and RSphISacI. The PCR product was cloned subsequently into the EcoRV site of pBluescript SK (Stratagene), generating pSK-HAB1. Next, an EcoRI-SalI DNA fragment was excised from pSK-HAB1 and subcloned into the pMal-c2 vector (New England Biolabs). In order to obtain an N-terminal deletion of HAB1 (ΔNHAB1), a HindIII DNA fragment encompassing the amino acid residues 116 to 511 was excised from pSK-HAB1 and subcloned into the pMal-c2 vector. HAB1 cDNA was mutagenized by PCR in order to engineer a G246D substitution (CITATION). To this end, the following oligonucleotides were used as primers: FPCR1 (5′-TATGATGGTCATGACGGCCATAAGGTT-3′), in which the codon for Gly-246 (GGA) was changed to Asp (GAC), RATT380, FATTATG, and RPCR2. Once the pMalc2-based constructs were verified by sequencing, expression of recombinant MBP-HAB1, MBP-ΔNHAB1, and MBP-G246D ΔNhab1 was induced with 1 mM isopropylthio-β-galactoside in E. coli DH5α cells. The fusion proteins were purified by amylose affinity chromatography according to the manufacturer's instructions (New England Biolabs). Phosphatase activity was measured using 33P-labeled casein as a substrate. Dephosphorylated casein (P-4765; Sigma-Aldrich) was 33P-labeled with bovine heart cAMP-dependent protein kinase (P-5511; Sigma-Aldrich) in a 500-μL reaction volume containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 60 μM cAMP, 50 μM unlabeled ATP, and 0.1 μCi/μL [γ-33P]ATP. The radiolabeled casein was precipitated with 20% trichloroacetic acid, and after two washings with 10% trichloroacetic acid, the casein was dissolved in 200 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6. Phosphatase assays were performed in a 50-μL reaction volume containing 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, and ∼10,000 cpm of 33P-labeled casein. After incubation for 30 min at 30°C, the reaction was stopped with 100 μL of 20% trichloroacetic acid, samples were centrifuged, and the release of 33Pi in the supernatant was determined by scintillation counting. Experiments were performed basically as described by CITATION. The different binary vectors described above were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 (pGV2260) (CITATION) by electroporation, and transformed cells were selected on Luria-Bertani plates supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg/mL). Then, they were grown in liquid Luria-Bertani medium to late exponential phase and cells were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.6, containing 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 μM acetosyringone to an OD600 of 1. These cells were mixed with an equal volume of Agrobacterium C58C1 (pCH32 35S:p19) expressing the silencing suppressor p19 of Tomato bushy stunt virus (CITATION) so that the final density of Agrobacterium solution was ∼1. Bacteria were incubated for 3 h at room temperature and then injected into young fully expanded leaves of 4-week-old tobacco plants. Leaves were examined after 3 to 4 d with a Leica TCS-SL confocal microscope and a laser scanning confocal imaging system. Samples for immunoblot and immunoprecipitation assays were harvested, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. To measure ABA sensitivity, seeds (∼200 seeds per experiment) were plated on solid medium composed of MS basal salts, 1% sucrose, and increasing concentrations of ABA. In order to score seed germination, the percentage of seeds that had germinated and developed fully green expanded cotyledons was determined. ABA-resistant growth from swi3b +/− heterozygous seedlings (∼20 seedlings per experiment) was scored by weighing whole plants after 12 d of the transfer of 5-d-old seedlings grown on 0.5 μM ABA onto MS plates supplemented with 10 μM ABA. Heterozygous individuals from the swi3b-1 or swi3b-2 progeny were identified by their hygromycin or sulfadiazine resistance, respectively. Protein extracts for immunodetection experiments were prepared from either tobacco leaves infiltrated with Agrobacterium or transgenic lines from Arabidopsis. Plant material (∼200 mg) for protein gel blot analysis was directly extracted in 2× Laemmli buffer (125 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 4% SDS, 20% glycerol, 2% mercaptoethanol, and 0.001% bromphenol blue), and proteins were run on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel and analyzed by immunoblotting. Plant material (∼1 g) for immunoprecipitation experiments was extracted in 3 volumes of PBS supplemented with 1 mM EDTA, 0.05% Triton X-100, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Protein concentration in each lysate was adjusted to the same value, and equal volumes of lysates (1 mL) were incubated with 1 μg/mL anti-HA high-affinity rat monoclonal antibody (clone 3F10; Roche) for 4 h at 4°C. After incubation, 20 μL of protein G–agarose beads (Roche) was added to precipitate the antigen/antibody complex. The protein G–agarose beads were collected after 1 h of incubation at 4°C by centrifugation and washed three times with extraction buffer. The antigen/antibody complex was eluted by boiling in Laemmli buffer and run on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel. Proteins immunoprecipitated with anti-HA antibodies were transferred onto Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore) and probed with either anti-HA-peroxidase or anti-c-myc-peroxidase conjugate (Roche), and detection was performed using the ECL advance protein gel blotting detection kit (GE Healthcare). The imaging of the chemiluminiscent signal was achieved using a highly efficient cooled CCD camera system (LAS-3000 luminiscent image analyzer from Fuji Photo Film). The signal intensities of the digitalized images were quantified using Image-Gauge version 4.0 software (Fuji Photo Film) according to the manufacturer's conditions. Immunodetection of GFP fusion proteins was performed with an anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (clone JL-8; Clontech) as primary antibody and ECL anti-mouse peroxidase (GE Healthcare) as secondary antibody. A rabbit antibody against peptide comprising amino acids 3 to 17 of GFP (anti-GFPN) was employed to detect YFPN fusion proteins (G1544; Sigma-Aldrich). Plants were grown on MS plates supplemented with 1% sucrose either in the absence or presence of 0.3 μM ABA. After 7 d, ∼30 to 40 seedlings were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was extracted using a Qiagen RNeasy plant mini kit, and 1 μg of the RNA solution obtained was reverse-transcribed using 0.1 μg of oligo(dT)15 primer and Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (Roche), to finally obtain a 40-μL cDNA solution. RT-qPCR amplifications and measurements were performed using an ABI PRISM 7000 sequence detection system (Perkin-Elmer Applied Biosystems). RT-qPCR amplifications were monitored using the Eva-Green fluorescent stain (Biotium). Relative quantification of gene expression data was performed using the 2−ΔΔCT (or comparative CT) method (CITATION). Expression levels were normalized using the CT values obtained for the β-actin8 gene. The presence of a single PCR product was further verified by dissociation analysis in all amplifications. All quantifications were made in triplicate on RNA samples obtained from three independent experiments. The sequences of the primers used for PCR amplifications are indicated at Supplemental Table 1 online. The pBluescriptSK-ProHAB1:HAB1 construct was described by CITATION. Two copies of the HA epitope sequence encoding YPYDVPDYA were cloned at the C-terminal sequence of HAB1 cDNA in the construct mentioned above. The complete expression cassette comprising the HAB1 promoter, the double HA epitope–tagged HAB1 coding sequence, and the NOS terminator was subcloned into SacI-SalI doubly digested pCAMBIA 1300 (hygromycin-resistant). The resulting construct was named pCAMBIA1300-ProHAB1:HAB1-dHA and used to transform hab1-1 (kanamycin-resistant) plants as described by CITATION. Transgenic plants were screened in vitro on MS medium (M5524; Sigma-Aldrich) with 20 mg/L hygromycin B (H9773; Sigma-Aldrich). This protocol is based on fractionation techniques described by CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION. Rosette leaves from 3- to 4-week-old plants were mock-treated or treated with 50 μM ABA for 1 h, harvested, and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Next, plant material was ground in lysis buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 25% glycerol, 20 mM KCl, 2 mM EDTA, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 250 mM sucrose–containing protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche], and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride [PMSF]). The lysate was filtered through four layers of Miracloth and centrifuged at 1000g for 10 min at 4°C to pellet the nuclei. The soluble cytosolic fraction was removed, and the pellet was washed in nuclei resuspension buffer, 20 mM Tris-HCl, 25% glycerol, 2.5 mM MgCl2, and 0.5% Triton X-100. After centrifugation at 1000g for 30 s at 4°C, a nuclear pellet was obtained, which was resuspended in 5 volumes of medium salt buffer (CITATION), 20 mM Tris-HCl, 0.4 M NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol, 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.5 mM PMSF, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) and then frozen and thawed. After incubation with gentle mixing for 15 min at 4°C, the nuclear insoluble fraction, containing the major nuclear protein histones, was precipitated by centrifugation at 10,000g for 10 min, whereas the supernatant contained the nuclear soluble fraction. Detection of HAB1 was performed using anti-HA peroxidase conjugate (Roche). The purity of the different fractions was demonstrated using rabbit antibodies against histone H3 (Abcam) and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase. The ChIP protocol described here is a variation of the previously published protocols from CITATION and CITATION. A transgenic line of Arabidopsis expressing a double HA epitope–tagged HAB1 in a hab1-1 background was used as starting plant material. In parallel, plant material from the hab1-1 mutant was used as a control for the experiment. Rosette leaves from 3- to 4-week-old plants were mock-treated or treated with 50 μM ABA for 1 h and then harvested and immersed in buffer A (0.4 M sucrose, 10 mM Tris, pH 8, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM PMSF, and 1% formaldehyde) under vacuum for 10 min. Gly was added to a final concentration of 0.1 M, and incubation was continued for an additional 5 min under vacuum. Next, the plant material was washed with TBS (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, and 150 mM NaCl) and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Cross-linked material (∼1 g) was ground with a mortar with pestle, after which it was resuspended in 1 mL of ice-cold lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, 0.1% deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, and 1 mM PMSF) and transferred to a 2-mL screw-cap vial. Approximately 0.5 mL of zirconia/silica beads was added, and plant material was disrupted at 4°C for 10 min in the Mini Bead Beater 8 (Biospec Products; maximal speed, three rounds of 1 min). The lysate was collected into a 1.5-mL microtube and centrifuged for 1 min at 4°C. The pellet was collected and washed once in 1 mL of ice-cold lysis buffer. Next, the pellet was resuspended in 0.5 mL of cold lysis buffer and sonicated three times for 20 s (Branson Sonifier; output, 50%; needle, 5). Sonication resulted in the fragmentation of the chromatin into soluble pieces in the range of 300 to 500 bp. After centrifugation for 30 min at 4°C, the supernatant containing the soluble chromatin fragments (chromatin input) was transferred to 1.5-mL microtubes and stored at −80°C. To immunoprecipitate HAB1-dHA cross-linked to chromatin fragments, samples were incubated with 10 μg/mL anti-HA high-affinity rat monoclonal antibody (clone 3F10; Roche) for 30 min on a roller at room temperature. In the meantime, protein G–agarose beads were washed twice with lysis buffer, 25 μL was added to each sample, and the incubation was continued for 60 min. The agarose beads were recovered by centrifugation and then washed with 1 mL of each of the following buffers: 2× lysis buffer, 2× lysis buffer and 0.5 M NaCl, 1× buffer B (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, 0.25 M LiCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and 0.5% deoxycholate), and 1× TE (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, and 1 mM EDTA). The immunocomplexes were eluted from the beads by incubation for 10 min at 65°C in 250 μL of buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, 10 mM EDTA, and 1% SDS. After centrifugation, the supernatant was transferred to a microtube containing 250 μL of TE buffer and 20 μg of Pronase (Roche), and the samples were incubated for 1 h at 42°C followed by 5 h at 65°C to reverse formaldehyde-induced cross-links. In addition to the immunoprecipitated samples, aliquots (50 μL) of the total chromatin input that were not subjected to immunoprecipitation were also treated with Pronase and de-cross-linked to provide a quantitative measurement of the DNA input present in each sample. Finally, genomic DNA fragments were purified by the addition of 50 μL of 4 M LiCl and extraction with 300 μL of phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol and ethanol precipitation (adding 20 μg of glycogen as carrier). DNA pellets were washed with 70% ethanol, dissolved in 100 μL of TE buffer, and stored at −20°C. RT-qPCR was used to determine the amounts of genomic DNA immunoprecipitated in the ChIP experiment. The sequences of the primers used for PCR amplifications are indicated at Supplemental Table 1 online. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for HAB1 and SWI3B are At1g72770 and At2g33610, respectively. RD29B, RAB18, KIN1, RD22, RD29A, and P5CS1 correspond to At5g52300, At5g66400, At5g15960, At5g25610, At5g52310, and At2g39800, respectively. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The N-Terminal Region of HAB1 Has Transcriptional Activation Function in Yeast When Fused to the Gal4 DNA Binding Domain. Supplemental Figure 2. Treatment with 50 μM ABA for Different Periods of Time (5 min to 1 h) Does Not Change the Subcellular Localization of GFP-HAB1. Supplemental Figure 3. Detached Leaves Water Loss Assays Do Not Show Significant Differences between Wild-Type and swi3b-1 and swi3b-2 +/− Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. Reduced Vegetative and Reproductive Growth of the swi3b-3 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 5. Putative Nuclear Localization Signals in HAB1, PP2CA, and ABI2. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used for PCR Amplifications. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Alignment Corresponding to Supplemental Figure 5.
