!~ABS~! Pollen tubes must navigate through different female tissues to deliver sperm to the embryo sac for fertilization. Protein disulfide isomerases play important roles in the maturation of secreted or plasma membrane proteins. Here, we show that certain T-DNA insertions in Arabidopsis thaliana PDIL2-1, a protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), have reduced seed set, due to delays in embryo sac maturation. Reciprocal crosses indicate that these mutations acted sporophytically, and aniline blue staining and scanning electron microscopy showed that funicular and micropylar pollen tube guidance were disrupted. A PDIL2-1-yellow fluorescent protein fusion was mainly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and was expressed in all tissues examined. In ovules, expression in integument tissues was much higher in the micropylar region in later developmental stages, but there was no expression in embryo sacs. We show that reduced seed set occurred when another copy of full-length PDIL2-1 or when enzymatically active truncated versions were expressed, but not when an enzymatically inactive version was expressed, indicating that these T-DNA insertion lines are gain-of-function mutants. Our results suggest that these truncated versions of PDIL2-1 function in sporophytic tissues to affect ovule structure and impede embryo sac development, thereby disrupting pollen tube guidance.
!~RES~! An extracellular PDI was shown to be important for gamete fusion in mammals (CITATION). Analyses of EST databases obtained from egg, sperm, and embryo sac EST libraries in maize (Zea mays) (CITATION; CITATION) indicated that several PDI-like genes were represented in these libraries. To determine if Arabidopsis homologs of these maize PDIL proteins played any role in plant reproduction, we analyzed several Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants. There were no reproductive phenotypes for the PDIL1-1, PDIL2-3, or PDIL5-3 insertion lines. However, plants with certain insertions in PDIL2-1 showed smaller siliques and reduced seed set in both heterozygous and homozygous plants (Figure 1B, 1D, and 1E), indicating the dominant effect of these insertions. Vegetative growth was normal except for the shorter stature (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] We obtained eight T-DNA insertion mutants (Figure 2A) in PDIL2-1 (CITATION; CITATION). For all of these, we could identify homozygous lines (Figure 2B), but only FLAG_427G04 (line 4) and SALK_046705 (line 5) showed reduced seed set (Figure 1). To understand why this might be, we performed detailed expression and phenotypic analyses on these mutants. As shown in Figures 2A and 2C, the T-DNA insertion lines SALK_097094 and CS859015 (lines 9 and 10), located in the promoter region, had no or only a minor effect on gene expression. By contrast, in SALK_135268c and SALK_148421 (lines 7 and 8), inserted in the first or 7th introns, respectively, expression levels were significantly reduced. For three other insertion lines (i.e., FLAG_427G04, SALK_046705, and SALK_082179; lines 4, 5, and 6), we could only detect truncated transcripts. Although line 5 was predicted to be inserted in the 4th intron according to The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.Arabidopsis.org), our thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR and sequencing analyses indicated that there was another insertion in the 5th intron, with an opposite orientation. There was also a 344-bp deletion between these two insertions. The FLAG_015D01 (line 3) appears to be a null, since no transcript was detected with any of the primer pairs tested. [[FIGURE]] Both heterozygous and homozygous plants of line 4 and line 5 had reduced seed set (Figure 1; data not shown), somewhat more so in the homozygotes. As shown in Figure 2C, the expression level of both these insertion lines was lower than in the wild type, suggesting that the phenotype was due to the truncated protein, rather than to overexpression. The siliques of these two lines were also significantly smaller than those of the wild type (Figure 1B; data not shown). Surprisingly, the null mutant line 3, as well as line 6, which has truncated transcripts, showed normal seed set. These results suggested that the truncated products of line 4 and line 5 had dominant effects but that they were not completely penetrant, as some seed was set. We also crossed line 3 with insertion lines in PDIL2-3 (CS856199) and PDIL1-1 (SALK_015253C). However, neither double mutant showed fertilization-related phenotypes, which might reflect the highly redundant functions of the 22 PDI-like genes in Arabidopsis genome. Since these two insertion lines showed seed set phenotypes and both sides of the T-DNA insertion in line 5 were recovered, we chose line 5 for further analyses. To determine what caused the reduced seed set phenotype, we checked pollen tube growth in pistils of the line 5 homozygous mutant (Figure 3). Approximately 30% of the ovules in the homozygote attracted pollen tubes to the micropyle (Figure 3B), but ∼70% did not, although many pollen tubes were seen growing on the placenta and funicular tissue (Figures 3B and 3C). The pollen tubes appeared to have lost their way after they grew out of the transmitting tract. The undeveloped ovules either received no pollen tubes (58.6%) (Figures 3B and 3C, left) or had pollen tubes randomly growing onto the ovule surface and on the funiculus (10.2%) (Figures 3C, right, and 3D). These observations indicated that funicular and microplylar guidance to undeveloped ovules was disrupted in this line. To further confirm the observed pollen tube guidance defects, we used scanning electron microscopy. Many ovules had no pollen tubes in the vicinity (Figure 3G), or pollen tubes wound around the surface of undeveloped ovules (Figure 3H), indicating funicular and micropylar defects in pollen tube guidance. [[FIGURE]] To determine if the reduced seed set was caused by defects of gametophyte origin, we performed reciprocal crosses with wild-type plants using plants that were heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion. The kanamycin resistance marker was silenced in line 5, so we used PCR to determine the genotype of the progeny. Despite the reduced seed set, the transmission of the T-DNA insertion was normal through both parents (Table 1), suggesting that the reduced seed set phenotype was caused by sporophytic effects. Although we had not noticed any abnormalities in ovule structure (Figure 3), we decided to check ovule and embryo sac development in both heterozygous and homozygous plants. In heterozygous plants, ovule development was normal (Figures 4A to 4D), but ovules of line 5 homozygotes often showed a protruding embryo sac phenotype, presumably caused by shorter integuments (Figure 4E). Furthermore, although many line 5 embryo sacs were normal (Figures 4A and 4E), others were delayed at varying stages of maturation (two, four, or eight nuclei), in both heterozygous and homozygous plants (Figures 4B to 4D and 4F to 4H; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Embryo sacs of line 4 homozygotes showed similar phenotypes and thus are not shown. Segregation Analysis of the Line 5 (SALK_046705) Insertion Mutant [[FIGURE]] We also performed reciprocal crosses between the homozygous mutants and wild-type plants. When the mutants were used as female, the number of undeveloped ovules was similar to those in a self cross (Table 2). Similar results were obtained when heterozygous plants were used for the crosses (Table 2), suggesting that the reduced seed set phenotype was of maternal sporophytic origin but affected female gametophyte development. Seed Set Analyses Following Reciprocal and Self Crosses To test the prediction that the reduced seed set phenotypes were caused by the expression of truncated transcripts, we transformed wild-type plants with constructs in which the gene products would correspond to those in the line 4 or line 5 insertion lines, named truncation1 (TRC1) and truncation2 (TRC2), respectively. Figure 5A shows the constructs used for this purpose (#1 and #2) as well as three other constructs used in subsequent experiments. For each construct, we used the endogenous promoter (1.66 kb) and inserted either green fluorescent protein (GFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) between the signal peptide (SP) and the coding sequence. [[FIGURE]] The resulting T1 transgenic plants were selected by BASTA, and resistant plants were transferred to soil. Siliques were dissected to analyze the seed set. For each truncation construct, some plants had reduced seed set (Table 3). To confirm expression of the transgene, real-time quantitative PCR experiments were used to compare plants showing the phenotype with those that did not. For each construct, plants showing the phenotype (TRC1-2, TRC1-4, TRC1-6, TRC2-7, TRC2-11, and TRC2-15) also had higher levels of the truncated transcripts (Figures 5B and 5C). The endogenous PDIL2-1 expression level was only slightly altered in the truncation 1 and truncation 2 transformants, whether or not the plant showed the reduced seed set phenotype (Figures 5B and 5C). These results indicate that the phenotypes were caused by the transgene, rather than by a cosuppression effect. Characterization of the PDIL2-1 Transgenic Plants We also checked the pollen tube growth in siliques of the transgenic plants and found that undeveloped ovules failed to attract pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In these transgenic lines and similar to the insertion lines, we found normal embryo sacs (Figure 4I) and arrested embryo sacs (Figures 4J to 4L). Most of the arrested embryo sacs arrested early (one or two nuclei) (Figures 4J to 4L; see Supplemental Table 1 online). The phenotypes were stronger than in lines 4 and 5 and correlated with the reduced seed set (see Supplemental Table 1 online). PDIL2-1 has two typical active thioredoxin (CGHC) domains, usually named a and a′, but it lacks the inactive thioredoxin domains b and b′ as well as the acidic c domain and the ER retention signal, KDEL. Because it has a D domain at its C terminus, PDIL2-1 belongs to the PDI-D family (CITATION). There is also a predicted signal peptide at the N terminus. The protein structure of PDIL2-1 is shown in Figure 6A.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the expression pattern of PDIL2-1, we performed RT-PCR analysis using cDNA samples extracted from different Arabidopsis organs. PDIL2-1 was expressed in all the tissues examined, with a lower expression level in pollen relative to other tissues (Figure 6B). To determine expression at the protein level, we used a YFP fusion construct (ProPDIL2-1:SP-YFP-PDIL2-1) (Figure 5A, construct #5). At least 100 ovules from six independent T1 transgenic plants were checked and all showed similar YFP expression patterns. As shown in Figures 6C to 6J, ProPDIL2-1:SP-YFP-PDIL2-1 was highly expressed in vegetative and reproductive meristems, in the main and lateral roots, and in flowers. Although the RT-PCR results showed lower expression in pollen (Figure 6B), the YFP fusion protein was easily detected in pollen tubes germinated in vitro (Figure 6J). To obtain detailed expression information for flowers, where pollen tube guidance takes place, we checked the YFP fusion pattern in ovules of different developmental stages. In early stage 12 flowers, the funiculus curves backward and the inner and outer integuments do not cover the nucellus. The YFP signal was observed in both inner and outer integuments and also in nucellar cells (Figures 7A and 7B). In late stage 12 and in stage 13 flowers, YFP was also expressed in the integument cells but was not observed in the embryo sac (Figures 7C to 7F). Expression in the mature ovule was striking, with enhanced fluorescence in the micropylar region, as shown in Figures 7E and 7F. After fertilization, YFP was observed in the seed integuments but not in the embryo (Figure 7G). [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of PDIL2-1, we used two strategies. First, we checked localization in plants expressing ProPDIL2-1:SP-YFP-PDIL2-1. In root hair cells, YFP was observed around the nuclei and in some organelles, consistent with ER localization (Figures 7H and 7I). The YFP signal was also localized in the ER in leaf and hypocotyl cells (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). Second, we made a construct with a red fluorescent protein fused to the C terminus of PDIL2-1, driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. This construct was cobombarded into onion epidermal cells with a GFP-KDEL construct to mark the ER. As shown in Figures 7J to 7L, PDIL2-1 colocalized with the ER marker. A construct that lacked the D domain was also ER localized (see Supplemental Figures 2C to 2E online). To determine whether PDIL2-1 is a functional enzyme, we performed a yeast complementation experiment. The TRG1/PDI1 gene of yeast encodes an ER-resident protein that is structurally related to PDI and essential for growth. The complementation experiments were performed in BK203-15B cells carrying a deletion of the TRG1 gene, which can be rescued by the pWBK-PDI centromeric plasmid (CITATION). This centromeric vector carries a URA3 gene, which allows positive selection for growth in the absence of uracil and negative selection in the presence of 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA). As shown in Figure 8A, the PDIL2-1 construct complemented the yeast mutant and allowed growth on YPG plates in the absence of pWBK-PDI. Furthermore, constructs in which mutations in either of the two thioredoxin active sites (a and a′) were introduced only inefficiently complemented the yeast mutant. The inactive mutant PDIL2-1m, which has both active sites mutated, was unable to complement under these conditions. None of the colonies picked from the 5-FOA plate grew on plates lacking uracil, demonstrating that growth on YPG plates was not due to the presence of the centromeric plasmid pWBK-PDI (Figure 8A). We therefore conclude that PDIL2-1 has PDI activity. [[FIGURE]] Plants that were heterozygous or homozygous for the T-DNA insertions (line 4 and line 5) and transformants carrying truncated PDIL2-1 constructs (constructs #1 and #2) all showed reduced seed set (Table 3), suggesting that the truncated protein in these lines had a dominant effect. To determine whether a dominant-negative or a gain-of-function mutation could explain the phenotype, we analyzed the isomerase activity of the truncated PDIL2-1 proteins. As shown in Figure 8B, constructs in which the D domain was truncated (TRX1+TRX2) or in which only the first thioredoxin domain was present (TRX1) both complemented the yeast PDI mutation. These results strongly support the gain-of-function explanation. If the truncated protein of PDIL2-1 caused a gain-of-function effect, overexpression of PDIL2-1 might have the same effect. To test this possibility, we transformed wild-type plants with the PDIL2-1 cDNA driven by its endogenous promoter and separately with a construct in which both active sites were mutated, also driven by its endogenous promoter (Figure 5A, #3 and #4). Of the 15 plants transformed with the wild-type version of the cDNA, six showed reduced seed set, while all 20 transformants with the mutated version showed normal seed set (Table 3). We also observed some developmentally delayed embryo sacs in the transgenic plants with the wild-type version (see Supplemental Table 1 online), supporting the idea that it was the action of PDIL2-1 in the sporophyte that affected embryo sac development. Expression of the transgene was tested by real-time quantitative PCR. As shown in Figure 5D, transformants with different expression levels were obtained for both constructs, but all expressed PDIL2-1 to levels higher than those found in wild-type plants. These results support the idea that the T-DNA insertion lines 4 and 5 are dominant gain-of-function mutants.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) and T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the ABRC (Ohio State University). Seeds were surface-sterilized with 20% sodium hypochlorite solution for 10 min, washed three times with sterile water, and plated onto Petri dishes containing basal MS medium (CITATION) supplemented with Arabvitamins (1 mg/L thiamine, 0.5 mg/L pyridoxine, 0.5 mg/L nicotinic acid, and 0.1 mg/L myo-inositol), 0.5 g/L MES (Sigma-Aldrich), and 1% (w/v) sucrose (Fisher Scientific), adjusted to pH 5.8 and solidified with 0.8% agar. Seeds were stratified for 3 d at 4°C in the dark and then grown in long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark at 21°C) for 7 d in a Percival growth chamber. After transfer to soil, plants were grown in a greenhouse, with 16 h of daylight, supplemented with lights at an intensity of 75 to 100 μmol m−2 s−1, day/night temperatures of 21°C/18°C, and relative humidity of ∼50%. The insertions in the T-DNA lines were confirmed by PCR. Primers used for PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The yeast strain BK203-15B (Mata, ura3, leu2, his3, trp1, pdi∷leu2), pDS2 plasmid, and positive and negative controls were kindly provided by David M. Ferrari. Strain BK203-15B, which carries a deletion of the TRG1 gene, is rescued by a centromeric plasmid (pWBK-PDI) that contains a copy of the wild-type TRG1 gene and a URA3 selection marker. The yeast vector pDS2 contains the HIS3 selection marker and has the yeast galactose-inducible GAL1 promoter for the introduced genes. The wild-type PDIL2-1 and a mutated version (with both CGHC boxes mutated to SGHS) were cloned using PCR and inserted into the BamHI and SalI sites of pDS2. Primers used for cloning the PDIL2-1 gene were PDIL2-1 BamHI forward 5′-TAGGATCCATGGCGAAATCTCAGATCTGGTTTG-3′ and PDIL2-1 SalI reverse 5′-TATAGTCGACTTAAGAAGAAGCAACGAACGTGGT-3. Primers used for mutating the first TRX motif were MCC1F 5′-ACGCTCCCTGGAGTGGTCACAGCAAGAAACT-3′ and MCC1R 5′-AGTTTCTTGCTGTGACCACTCCAGGGAGCGT-3′. Primers used for mutating the second TRX motif were MCC2F 5′-TGCACCATGGAGTGGCCACAGCAAATCACT-3′ and MCC2R 5′-AGTGATTTGCTGTGGCCACTCCATGGTGCA-3′. The insertions were sequenced, and transformants from each construct were selected on SGC-HIS medium and then transferred to galactose and 5-FOA (SGC/FOA) medium to counterselect for the presence of the pWBK-PDI centromeric plasmid. Colonies that grew on SGC/FOA were transferred to SGC-URA medium to verify the absence of pWBK-PDI and then analyzed on YPG plates for complementation of the TRG1 deletion. To analyze seed set, siliques 8 to 10 d after fertilization were placed on double-sided tape and transversely dissected under a stereoscope, and then undeveloped and normal ovules were counted. Images of siliques were taken with a Nikon SMZ800 stereoscope. For reciprocal crosses with Col-0, flowers were emasculated at night and crosses were performed 18 to 20 h later. Pollen tube growth in pistils was analyzed using aniline blue staining in pistils 1 to 2 DAP as described (CITATION). For scanning electron microscopy, pistils 1 to 2 DAP were carefully opened with a sharp needle and then fixed with FAA (50% ethanol, 3.7% formaldehyde, and 5% acetic acid) for 2 h. After a series of dehydration steps using increasing concentrations of ethanol, siliques were stored in absolute ethanol or were directly subjected to critical point drying, and then siliques were mounted for sputter coating with gold palladium for 25 s and observed on a Hitachi S-4700 scanning electron microscope at an accelerating voltage of 5 kV. For ovule clearing, unpollinated pistils, open flowers, and 3-DAP pistils were dissected to expose ovules, fixed in FAA for 20 min, washed in water, and cleared overnight in Hoyer's solution (chloral hydrate:water:glycerol; 3:1:1; v/v/v). Ovules were observed using DIC microscopy. The ER marker was kindly provided by Robert Blanvillain and Patrick Gallois (unpublished data). In this pKar6 vector, a chitinase signal peptide sequence (5′-ATGGTGAAGACTAATCTTTTTCTCTTTTTCATCTTTTCACTTCTCCTATCATTATCCTCGGCCGAC-3′) was placed in front of the GFP coding sequence, and a sequence encoding an ER retention signal sequence (5′-AAGGACGAGCTG-3′) was inserted just before the stop codon. To construct the PDIL2-1-tdTomato fusion construct used for cobombardment, the cDNA of PDIL2-1 was amplified from pollen cDNA using forward 5′-CACCATGGCGAAATCTCAGATCTGGTTTGGT-3′ and reverse 5′-CGCTTTCGCGGCCGCTTCCGCAGAAGAAGCAACGAACGTGGTTAGGA-3′ primers, using phusion high fidelity DNA polymerase (New England BioLabs) and then blunt-ligated to tdTomato (CITATION), driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in the pUC19 backbone. The reverse primer contains a sequence encoding the linker AEAAAKA. For onion bombardment, gold particles (1 μm in diameter) were coated with equal amounts (5 μg) of each plasmid DNA and bombarded with a BIOLISTIC-PDS-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) at a pressure of 1100 p.s.i. Onion epidermal peels were placed on solidified 0.5× MS medium and held at 22°C in the dark for 24 h before observation. RNA was extracted from seedlings, leaves, buds, flowers, unfertilized pistils, pollen, and siliques using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). For expression analysis, 2 μg of total RNA was reverse-transcribed using the SuperScript II system (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions, with oligo poly-T primers in a 20-μL reaction. The gene-specific primers were forward 5′-CACCATGGCGAAATCTCAGATCTGGTTTGGT-3′ and reverse 5′-AGAAGAAGCAACGAACGTGGTTAGGATAT-3′. ACTIN2 expression was used as control, and the primers for ACTIN2 were ACT2Fw 5′-GCCATCCAAGCTGTTCTCTCC-3′ and ACT2Re 5′-TTCTCGATGGAAGAGCTGGT-3′. The primers used for detection of PDIL2-1 expression in the T-DNA insertion lines were P1 5′-CACCATGGCGAAATCTCAGATCTGGTTTGGT-3′, P2 5′-TGTTCACGTATTCAGCCAAAGCT-3′, P3 5′-GCACCAACGTAAAATTAGCTGCAG-3′, and P4 5′- CCTCTCCGTTTCTTTGCTAGC-3′. The GFP-specific primer used to check the expression of the transgenic construct was 5′-AGAAGCGCGATCACATGGTC-3′. Real-time quantitative PCR and calculation of relative expression were performed as described by CITATION. In brief, 3 μg of total RNA from inflorescences were used for reverse transcription. A MyIQ Real-Time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad) and EvaGreen Dye (Biotium) were used to detect gene expression. The IPP2 gene (At3g02780) was used as an internal control. Each real-time PCR experiment contained four technical replicates, and five independent transgenic plants from each truncation construct were used to check expression levels. The primers used for endogenous PDIL2-1 were EndoF 5′-CAACAAAGCTGGTCACGATTATG-3′ and EndoR 5′-GGTCCCAGATTTCTCGTTGATG-3′; primers used for both the endogenous gene and the transgene were BothF 5′-AAAGGAGCTCTCGTCGAGTTTTAC-3′ and BothR 5′-CCTAGCTTTTCATACTCTGGAGCAA-3′. To obtain the endogenous promoter, a 1.66-kb fragment upstream of the ATG plus the sequence encoding the signal peptide was amplified using the wild type Col-0 genomic DNA as template and forward 5′- GAGCTCTGCATCACATCTGCGAATCATCA-3′ and reverse 5′- ACTAGTAGCTACGGCTGAAACCAGAAGCA-3′ primers. The amplified fragment was ligated to the T-easy vector (Clontech). After sequencing, the fragment was cleaved by SacI and SpeI and then ligated to the destination vector pB7WGY2 for an eYFP fusion or to pB7WGF2 for an eGFP fusion. The destination vectors used were obtained from VIB-Ghent University (CITATION). The genomic region of PDIL2-1 was amplified using forward 5′-CACCGACGATGTGGTTGTTTTGACTGACGA-3′ and reverse 5′-TTAAGAAGAAGCAACGAACGTGGTTAGGA-3′ primers. The same primers were used to obtain a fragment that would encode the full-length protein, but the cDNA was used as template. For the construct that would encode truncated PDIL2-1, to phenocopy the mutant, the forward primer was the same used for the fragment that would encode the full-length protein. The reverse primer used for truncation 1 (corresponding to line 4) was 5′-TTAGGCTTTGTGTGCATCAGCATC-3′, and the reverse primer used for truncation 2 (corresponding to line 5) was 5′-TTATCCTTCCTTGTTCACGTATTCAGC-3′. The purified PCR products were cloned into the pENTR D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced. The resulting vector was used in an LR reaction using LR Clonase II (Invitrogen) to insert the coding sequence into the destination vectors. Plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Seeds were sown on soil and seedlings were selected by spraying with BASTA (Farnam Companies) at a 1:400 dilution. Resistant plants were transferred to freshly prepared soil. Arabidopsis in vitro pollen tube growth was conducted at 22°C, as described (CITATION). Microscopy imaging was performed using an inverted Axiophot microscope (Carl Zeiss) with either bright-field or epifluorescence optics. Images were captured using a Spot digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments), exported using AxioVision (Carl Zeiss), and processed using Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PDIL2-1 (At2g47470, NM_130315), PDIL1-1 (At1g21750, NM_102024), PDIL2-3 (At2g32920, NM_128852), PDIL5-3 (At3g20560, NM_112948), ACTIN2 (At3g18780, NM_112764), IPP2 (At3g02780, NM_111146), and yeast TRG1 (M76982). Accession numbers of T-DNA insertion lines are as follows: line 3, FLAG_015D01; line 4, FLAG_427G04; line 5, SALK_046705; line 6, SALK_082179; line 7, SALK_135268c; line 8, SALK_148421; line 9, SALK_097094; line 10, CS859015, PDIL1-1 (SALK_015253C), PDIL2-3 (CS856199), and PDIL5-3 (SALK_003716). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Pollen Tube Growth Defects. Supplemental Figure 2. Subcellular Localization of PDIL2-1 and of the Truncated PDIL2-1 Missing the D Domain. Supplemental Figure 3. Expression of PDIL2-1 in the Wild Type and UNE5. Supplemental Table 1. Embryo Sac Developmental Stages in Lines 4 and 5 and PDIL2-1 Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for Identification of T-DNA Insertion Sites.
