!~ABS~! Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is a widely conserved cytoprotective protein localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. We identified Arabidopsis cytochrome b5 (AtCb5) as an interactor of Arabidopsis BI-1 (AtBI-1) by screening the Arabidopsis cDNA library with the split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid (suY2H) system. Cb5 is an electron transfer protein localized mainly in the ER membrane. In addition, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis confirmed that AtBI-1 interacted with AtCb5 in plants. On the other hand, we found that the AtBI-1-mediated suppression of cell death in yeast requires Saccharomyces cerevisiae fatty acid hydroxylase 1 (ScFAH1), which had a Cb5-like domain at the N terminus and interacted with AtBI-1. ScFAH1 is a sphingolipid fatty acid 2-hydroxylase localized in the ER membrane. In contrast, AtFAH1 and AtFAH2, which are functional ScFAH1 homologues in Arabidopsis, had no Cb5-like domain, and instead interacted with AtCb5 in plants. These results suggest that AtBI-1 interacts with AtFAHs via AtCb5 in plant cells. Furthermore, the overexpression of AtBI-1 increased the level of 2-hydroxy fatty acids in Arabidopsis, indicating that AtBI-1 is involved in fatty acid 2-hydroxylation.
!~RES~! To investigate the molecular function of AtBI-1, we attempted to identify its interactors. When we screened the Arabidopsis cDNA library with the split-ubiquitin yeast two hybrid (suY2H) system, AtCb5 (At2g32720) was isolated as a candidate for interaction. Cb5 is a ubiquitous electron transport protein found in yeasts, animals and plants (CITATION). Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) sequence analyses in Arabidopsis identified five putative Cb5 isoforms (AtCb5-A, At1g26340; AtCb5-B, At2g32720; AtCb5-C, At2g46650; AtCb5-D, At5g48810; AtCb5-E, At5g53560; from which AtCb5-B was isolated by the suY2H system, as mentioned above) and one Cb5-like protein (AtCb5LP, At1g60660) that had significant similarities to yeast Cb5 (Figure 1a,b). They all contain a heme-binding motif (-HPGG-) as a conserved feature of the Cb5 family protein. AtCb5s have a single transmembrane domain at their C terminus, like yeast Cb5, whereas AtCb5LP has one at its N terminus (Figure 1b). Moreover, Cb5 is well known as a tail-anchored (TA) membrane protein that is exposed to the cytosol, possesses a single transmembrane domain and tail regions located near the C terminus, and is known to regulate intracellular localization (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, AtCb5-D is localized in the ER membrane, whereas AtCb5-A is localized in the chloroplast envelope or mitochondrial outer membrane (CITATION). Furthermore, the C-terminal sequences of AtCb5-B, -C and -E, as well as AtCb5-D, resembled those of Cb5-A, -B and -C in Tung (Aleurites fordii), the localization of which has been defined as the ER membrane both in vitro and in vivo (CITATION), suggesting that AtCb5-B, -C, -D and -E could be localized in the ER membrane (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] To examine whether other AtCb5-family proteins interacted with AtBI-1, the suY2H analysis was performed. pMet-AtBI-1, NuI-AtCb5s-myc and NuI-AtCb5LP-myc were used as bait and prey constructs, respectively (Figure 2a). In the suY2H system used in this study, only yeast cells containing interactors survive on the plate including 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA) because the URA3 protein expressed by the URA3 gene in the bait vector is disrupted by the effect of full-length ubiquitin (CITATION). As shown in Figure 2b, all AtCb5s interacted with AtBI-1, although AtCb5LP did not. To further ascertain the interaction between AtBI-1 and AtCb5, we divided AtCb5-B into an N-terminal cytosolic region (AtCb5-BN; 1–106 aa) and a C-terminal transmembrane-tail region (AtCb5-BC; 107–134 aa), and tested the interaction with AtBI-1 (Figure 2c). As demonstrated in Figure 2d, it was seen that AtBI-1 interacted only with AtCb5-BN, suggesting that AtBI-1 interacts with AtCb5 on the cytosolic side of the ER. [[FIGURE]] In the next step, we confirmed the interaction between AtBI-1 and AtCb5 in plant cells by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay. The pSPYNE and pSPYCE vectors contain YFPN (1–155 aa) and YFPC (156–239 aa) in the C-terminal side of target proteins, respectively (Figure 3a). Thus, we used AtCb5-BN in this experiment because the topology of the C terminus of AtCb5-B is different from that of AtBI-1. pSPYNE-AtCb5-BN and pSPYCE-AtBI-1 were constructed (Figure 3a), and were co-expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves by Agrobacterium infiltration. As shown in Figure 3b and c, strong YFP fluorescence was observed in the cell periphery and the perinuclear region in a combination of pSPYNE-AtCb5-BN and pSPYCE-AtBI-1. In contrast, pairwise expression of empty vectors (pSPYNE and pSPYCE) induced no fluorescent signal (Figure 3d). These results indicate that AtBI-1 interacts with AtCb5-BN in N. benthamiana cells. [[FIGURE]] Next, we attempted to detect the interaction between AtBI-1 and full-length AtCb5-B in plant cells. Fusion constructs of AtBI-1 and AtCb5-B were generated using genes encoding CFP and YFP, driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. AtBI-1-CFP and YFP-AtCb5-B, when co-bombarded in onion epidermal cells, co-localized in the cell periphery and the perinuclear region (Figure 3h). In addition, YFP-AtCb5-B showed a reticulum network (Figure 3i), confirming that AtCb5-B was localized in the ER. Then, we examined the interaction with fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)–acceptor photobleaching (APB) analysis. The mean FRET efficiency was 10.2 ± 1.14% for the combination of AtBI-1-CFP and YFP-AtCb5-B, whereas a low-level FRET signal was recorded in control experiments (−0.92 ± 0.95% AtBI-1-CFP + YFP) (Figure 3j). In addition to BiFC assay, these results revealed that AtBI-1 physically interacts with the full-length of AtCb5-B in the ER membrane of plant cells. Cb5 is related to fatty acid synthesis, in processes such as hydroxylation (CITATION; CITATION), desaturation (Dailey and Strittmatter, 1978, 1980) and elongation (CITATION). However, direct evidence of Cb5 involvement in the regulation of cell death has not been reported to date. To investigate the role of Cb5 in the AtBI-1-mediated suppression of cell death, we used yeast mutants deficient in the Cb5 gene and several Cb5-related genes (FAH1, ERG5, CBR1 or MCR1) (Table 1). Previous studies demonstrated that the expression of AtBI-1 in yeast suppressed Bax-induced cell death (CITATION; CITATION). We then evaluated the suppression activity of AtBI-1 against Bax-induced cell death in these mutants. The wild-type yeast line (WT) and mutants co-transformed with Yep51-Bax and pYX112-AtBI showed almost the same sensitivity against Bax-induced cell death (data not shown). As shown in Figure 4a,b most mutants including the Cb5-deficient mutant co-expressing Bax and AtBI-1 survived equally well in Gal-containing medium, compared with the WT line. However, the mutant lacking FAH1 failed to inhibit Bax-induced cell death in the presence of AtBI-1. Cytological analysis showed that the cellular ER localization of AtBI-1 (AtBI-1-GFP) was not affected in this mutant (Figure 4c). [[FIGURE]] Saccharomyces cerevisiae FAH1/SCS7 (ScFAH1) is a sphingolipid very-long-chain fatty acid (VLCFA) 2-hydroxylase localized in the ER membrane that contains a Cb5-like domain at the N terminus (Figure 4d) (CITATION; CITATION), thus indicating the possibility that ScFAH1 interacts with AtBI-1 in yeast. In fact, suY2H confirmed the interaction between AtBI-1 and ScFAH1 (Figure 4e). These results indicate that ScFAH1 plays an important role in the AtBI-1-mediated suppression of cell death. CITATION reported previously that in Arabidopsis, At2g34770 (AtFAH1) was homologous to ScFAH1, and that it had fatty acid 2-hydroxylation activity in yeast. Further investigation of the FAH1-encoding genes in Arabidopsis using the BLAST database again identified another protein called At4g20870 (AtFAH2) that had high identity with ScFAH1. AtFAH1 and AtFAH2 shared 42.5 and 43.6% amino acid sequence identities with the hydroxylase domain of ScFAH1, respectively, and were putative membrane-proteins that possessed between two and four transmembrane domains. Both AtFAHs like ScFAH1 contained five conserved general motifs HX(2–3)(XH)H to receive electrons, which were characteristics of membrane-bound fatty acid hydroxylases, whereas none of them contained any N-terminal Cb5-like domains (Figure 5a). [[FIGURE]] To verify that plant FAH (AtFAH1 and AtFAH2) complements the phenotype of the ScFAH1-deficient yeast mutant, the Δfah1 strain possessing Bax and AtBI-1 was transformed with AtFAH1 and AtFAH2. As shown in Figure 5b,c AtBI-1 failed to inhibit Bax-induced cell death in the Δfah1 mutant. Additional expression of AtFAH1 or AtFAH2 in the Δfah1 mutant possessing both Bax and AtBI-1, however, restored the inhibitory activity of AtBI-1 against Bax-induced lethality. This result suggests that both AtFAH1 and AtFAH2 are functionally homologous to ScFAH1, and that the function of FAH is required for the AtBI-1-mediated suppression of cell death. As mentioned above, both AtFAHs were expected to have similar functions to ScFAH1. However, although ScFAH1 consists of both a hydroxylase domain and a Cb5-like domain, neither AtFAH1 nor AtFAH2 has a Cb5-like domain (Figures 5a and 6a). CITATION reported that the Cb5-like domain is essential for the activation of human FA2H, a homologue of ScFAH1. Hence, it is possible that AtFAHs are supplied with electrons by AtCb5 through their direct interaction in Arabidopsis. In fact, suY2H showed that both AtFAHs interacted with AtCb5-B (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 7a, when AtFAH2-CFP and YFP-AtCb5-B were co-bombarded in onion epidermal cells, both signals were noted in the cell periphery and the perinuclear region. In addition, AtFAH2-GFP showed a reticulum network (Figure 7b), suggesting that AtFAH2 is also localized in the ER. Then, we attempted to detect the interaction between AtFAH2 and AtCb5-B by FRET-APB analysis. Co-expression of AtFAH2-CFP and YFP-AtCb5-B yielded a mean FRET efficiency of 13.90 ± 1.29%, whereas control experiments involving combinations of AtFAH2-CFP and YFP showed low-level FRET signals (–0.53 ± 0.63%) (Figure 7c), indicating that AtFAH2 interacts with AtCb5-B in the ER of plant cells. [[FIGURE]] The results above indicate that AtBI-1 interacts with AtFAHs via AtCb5 in plant cells. Accordingly, AtBI-1 may influence the activity of FAH, or the fatty acid 2-hydroxylation. In the next step, we examined 2-hydroxy fatty acids (2-HFAs) in the total lipids of transgenic Arabidopsis plants with AtBI-1 overexpression (OX), and in knock-out (KO) or knock-down (KD) lines. In the OX line, AtBI-1 was overexpressed under the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and no obvious phenotype was noted under general growing conditions, which was similar to the overexpression lines of AtBI-1-GFP (CITATION). In the KO line, T-DNA was inserted in the AtBI-1 gene and AtBI-1 mRNA was deleted completely, as reported by CITATION. Moreover, in the KD line, AtBI-1 was suppressed by RNAi, as reported previously by CITATION. Total lipids were extracted from whole rosettes of 4-week-old plants, and fatty acids were derivatized to methyl esters. 2-HFA methyl esters were extracted by thin-layer chromatography (TLC), and were detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). It is known that in Arabidopsis there are thirteen 2-HFAs, including a very small number of 2-HFAs such as 23 h:0 and 25 h:0 (CITATION). In this study, we detected six major 2-HFAs: 16 h:0, 22 h:0, 24 h:1, 24 h:0, 26 h:1 and 26 h:0 (see Figure S1). As shown in Figure 8a, the levels of all 2-HFAs in the KO and KD lines were almost similar to those in the wild type (WT; Col-0). In contrast, the levels of 2-HFA excluding 16 h:0 in the OX line were higher than those in the WT, especially in 26 h:1 and 26 h:0 (Figure 8a–g). VLCFA is defined as the fatty acids that are longer than stearic acid (C18) (CITATION), suggesting that AtBI-1 mediates the VLCFA 2-hydroxylation through an interaction with Cb5 in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Columbia ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana was used in all experiments. Transgenic plants overexpressing AtBI-1 were generated by using pBIG-AtBI-1 (35S promoter with enhancer; CITATION). Transgenic plants in which AtBI-1 was knocked down by RNAi have been described previously by CITATION. The T-DNA insertion mutant of AtBI-1 was obtained from the GABI-Kat collection (line 117B05). Arabidopsis plants were cultivated at 23°C under continuous light (60 μmol m−2 s−1). The protein interaction was analysed using the suY2H system (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Plasmid vectors and yeast cells were kindly provided by Dr Ralph Panstruga and Dr I. E. Somssich. Library screening was carried out using this system. The Arabidopsis cDNA library was provided by Dr I. E. Somssich. The pMet-Cub-Ura3 or pCup-NuI-myc vectors contain a His+ or Trp+ marker, respectively. Ura3 in the bait vector is used as a reporter to demonstrate an interaction (CITATION). pMet-AtBI-1 was constructed previously (CITATION). The coding regions of AtCb5-A-E, AtCb5LP, AtFAH1, AtFAH2, AtCb5-BN (1–318 base pairs of AtCb5-B), AtCb5-BC (319–402 base pairs of AtCb5-B) or ScFAH1 were cloned into pMet-Cub-Ura3 or pCup-NuI-myc vectors to construct the bait or prey vectors, respectively. WT yeast cells (W303 strain) were transformed with different combinations of bait and prey constructs, and the His+Trp+ transformants were streaked on a minimum medium containing 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA; 0.1%), and were incubated at 30°C for 4 days. The low Cub-affinity NuA prey variant served as a negative control (CITATION). Plasmids for BiFC analysis were kindly provided by Dr Klaus Harter (University of Koln) and Dr Hironori Kaminaka (University of Tottori; CITATION). PCR-amplified coding regions of AtBI-1 and AtCb5-BN (1–318 base pairs) were introduced into the XbaI/BamHI site. The resultant plasmid, pSPYCE-AtCb5-BN, contained the N-terminal (1–155 amino acids) region of YFP, and pSPYCE-AtBI-1 contained the C-terminal (156–239) part of YFP. BiFC was performed in 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants after Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation, according to the method described by CITATION. For analysis of the BiFC signal, a fluorescence microscope (DMRD; Leica, http://www.leica.com) was used. The coding regions of AtBI-1 or AtFAH2 were cloned into the pEarleyGate102 vector to construct AtBI-1-CFP or AtFAH2-CFP, respectively (CITATION). The coding region of AtCb5-B was also cloned into pEarleyGate104 to construct YFP-AtCb5-B. The CFP excitation is at 442 nm. Plasmid DNA was introduced into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment with a helium-driven particle accelerator (PDS/1000; Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com), as described by CITATION. Confocal microscopy was carried out with a Leica TCS-SP5. For FRET measurements, Leica FRET acceptor photobleaching was used according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer. Enhanced YFP (EYFP) was photobleached in a region of 4–8 μm in diameter, by between two and five scans with a 514-nm laser at 100% intensity. The ECFP fluorescence intensity was quantified before [donor 1 (d1)] and after [donor 1 (d2)] acceptor photobleaching along the background fluorescence intensity (bk), and FRET efficiency was determined using the equation [(d2–bk) – (d1 – bk)]/(d2 – bk). Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene disruption mutants were purchased from Euroscarf (http://web.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/mikro/euroscarf). The plasmids used here have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast disruption mutants and wild-type (BY4741) cells were transformed with galactose-inducible Yep51 vector harbouring Bax (Yep51-Bax; CITATION), and pYX112 vector harboring AtBI-1 (pYX112-AtBI-1; CITATION). After transformants were cultured in leucine- and uracil-free SD (SD–Leu/Ura)-glucose medium for 1 day, the OD600 of each culture was adjusted to 0.1 and serially diluted to 0.0001. Each dilution was spotted on SD–Leu/Ura medium containing glucose or galactose, and was incubated at 30°C for 2 or 4 days (for glucose or galactose, respectively). For the complementation test, the FAH1-deficient mutant already transformed with Yep51-Bax and pYX112-AtBI-1 was re-transformed with pMet vector harbouring either AtFAH1 (pMet-AtFAH1) or AtFAH2 (pMet-AtFAH2), or with an empty vector (pMet). Cell death suppression activities of transformants were evaluated by spot assay on leucine-, uracil- and histidine-free SD (SD–Leu/Ura/His) medium containing glucose (2 days) or galactose (3 days). GFP-tagged AtBI-1 (pYX112-AtBI-1-GFP) was transformed into yeast cells (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was examined at 488 nm excitation wavelength with a fluorescence microscope (DMRD; Leica). Whole rosettes of Arabidopsis (2 g fresh weight) were immersed in 10 ml of boiling 2-propanol for several minutes, and were then chilled on ice. Total lipids were then extracted using the method described by CITATION. 2-HFA methyl esters, with 2-hydroxy pentadecanoic acid (15 h:0) methyl ester as an internal standard, were prepared and separated by silica gel TLC using n-hexane/diethyl ether (4:1, vol/vol) as the mobile phase, according to the method described by CITATION. Derivatized samples were analysed by GC-2010 gas chromatography (Shimadzu Scientific, http://www.ssi.shimadzu.com), with the injector in splitless mode. The analytes were fractionated on a Restek RTX-1 column (100% dimethyl polysiloxane; 0.25-mm inner diameter, 0.25-μm film thickness, 30-m long; Restek, http://www.restek.com), and the injection port and the transfer line were maintained at 250°C. The column temperature was programmed from 100°C (2-min hold) to 280°C, with a 10°C per min temperature gradient, and was maintained at 280°C for another 45 min. Mass spectrum data were obtained on a Shimadzu GCMS-QP2010 mass spectrometer after electron impact ionization. Peaks of the target analytes and internal standards were processed using the GC-MS Lab Solutions software (Shimadzu Scientific). Absolute values of 2-HFAs were calculated by the obtained areas of target analytes, based on the area of 15 h:0. Taking into consideration the recovery rate of lipid extraction (93%; CITATION), the absolute values of 2-HFAs were determined using the following equation: [(peak area of each 2-HFA methyl ester/peak area of 15 h:0 methyl ester) × the molecular coefficient of each 2-HFA methyl ester × the molecular quantity of 15 h:0 added before methylation].
