!~ABS~! Calmodulin-regulated protein phosphorylation plays a pivotal role in amplifying and diversifying the action of calcium ion. In this study, we identified a calmodulin-binding receptor-like protein kinase (CBRLK1) that was classified into an S-locus RLK family. The plasma membrane localization was determined by the localization of CBRLK1 tagged with a green fluorescence protein. Calmodulin bound specifically to a Ca2+-dependent calmodulin binding domain in the C-terminus of CBRLK1. The bacterially expressed CBRLK1 kinase domain could autophosphorylate and phosphorylates general kinase substrates, such as myelin basic proteins. The autophosphorylation sites of CBRLK1 were identified by mass spectrometric analysis of phosphopeptides.
!~RES~! To identify the molecular components of CaM-mediated defense signaling, an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library prepared from seedlings treated with the bacterial pathogen Pst DC3000 was screened. The screening was performed using HRP–conjugated CaM as a probe. One of the isolated clones encoded an S-locus receptor-like kinase designated CBRLK1. CBRLK1 consists of 830 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 93.2kDa and possesses the typical structural features of an RLK-type kinase, including a hydrophobic N-terminal putative signal peptide (residues 1–25), an extracellular domain consisting of an S-domain (residues 1–424), a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning domain of 22 amino acids (residues 435–456), and an intracellular C-terminal kinase catalytic domain with all 11 subdomains described for protein kinases (residues 517–801). A comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of CBRLK1 with those of several S-domain family members showed that the N-terminal half of CBRLK1 shares 31%, 32%, 35%, 28%, and 27% identities with S-domains of SRK6, SRK910, ARK1, RLK4, and RLK1, respectively (CITATION). The putative kinase catalytic domain of CBRLK1 shares high similarity with those of other S-domain RLKs (CITATION). Comparative analysis of the CaM-binding regions of many CaMBPs has led to the identification of multiple sequence motifs required for complex formation with CaM CITATION. Based on the structural characteristics of known CaMBDs, a putative CaMBD was predicted in the C-terminus of CBRLK1, between Val601 and Ile618 (CITATION A). Within this 18-amino acid stretch, hydrophobic amino acids are present at positions 1 (Val601), 8 (Trp608), and 14 (Ile614). Several basic residues (two lysines and two arginines) are interspersed between these hydrophobic residues, which is a known structural characteristic of Ca2+-dependent CaM-binding motifs. A helical wheel projection of the CBRLK1 CaMBD (18 amino acids, Val601 to Ile618) reveals a characteristic segregation of basic and polar residues on one side with hydrophobic amino acids on the other side (CITATION A). To confirm the location of the putative CaMBD, GST-fusion constructs encoding the full-length CBRLK1 (designated D0) and eight serial deletion fragments (D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, D6, D7, and D8) were generated (CITATIONA). Expression of the GST-fusion proteins was verified by protein blot analysis with an anti-GST polyclonal antibody. Two recombinant proteins that contain the putative CaMBD (D0 and D7) interacted with AtCaM2::HRP conjugate, and GST-fusion proteins lacking the predicted CaMBD (D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, D6, and D8) did not interact with CaM. Moreover, CaM bound to CBRLK1 in the presence of Ca2+ but not in the absence of Ca2+ (CITATIONB). These results indicate that CaM binds to a CaMBD located in the C-terminus region of CBRLK1 in a Ca2+ -dependent manner. To further analyze the putative binding of CaM to the 18-amino acid sequence of CBRLK1 from Val601 to Ile618, a peptide corresponding to this region was synthesized and employed for a CaM mobility shift assay on non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels CITATION. As shown in CITATIONB, the amount of peptide–CaM complex increased with increasing concentrations of the synthetic peptide in the presence of Ca2+ and was undetectable in the presence of EGTA. This result is consistent with data from a previous CaM overlay assay under similar Ca2+ and EGTA conditions. At a molar ratio of 1:1 (peptide:CaM), a half of CaM was shifted; whereas, at molar ratio of 3:1 (peptide:CaM), all CaM was shifted. To confirm binding of the synthetic peptide to CaM, a competition assay with PDE, a Ca2+/CaM-dependent enzyme, was performed. To determine the K d values of the peptide for activation of PDE by CaM, the CaM-mediated, dose-dependent activation of PDE was monitored in the presence (100nM) and in the absence of the peptide (CITATIONC). The activation curves shifted to the right in the presence of the peptide, indicating competition between PDE and the peptide for binding to CaM. Concentrations of AtCaM2 needed to achieve half-maximal activation of PDE activity (K m) in the absence and presence of the 18-mer peptide were 10.9nM and 40nM, respectively, a 4-fold difference. The K d value of the peptide for the activation of PDE by AtCaM2 is 26.5nM. To examine direct interactions between CaM and CBRLK1 in vivo, a yeast split ubiquitin assay system, based on the reassembly of N- and C-terminal halves (Nub and Cub) of ubiquitin (Ub), was used CITATION. CaM and full-length CBRLK1 were fused to the C-terminus of Nub and the N-terminus of Cub, respectively. The Cub of ubiquitin was linked to an N-terminally modified Ura3p reporter containing Arg at position 1 (RUra3p). When CaM interacts with the CBRLK1 protein, Nub and Cub reassemble into native-like Ub. This is followed by cleavage of RUra3p by ubiquitin-specific proteases (UBP) and rapid degradation of the released RUra3p through the N-end rule pathway of protein degradation. Consequently, cells coexpressing CBRLK1-Cub-RUra3p and Nub-CaM are unable to grow on plates lacking uracil but are able to grow on plates containing 5-FOA, which is converted into toxic 5-fluorouracil by RUra3p. In the opposite cases, yeast cells are uracil prototrophs and 5-FOA sensitive. Cells co-expressing CBRLK1-Cub-RUra3p and Nub-CaM were unable to grow on plates lacking uracil but successfully grew on plates containing 5-FOA, indicating that CBRLK1 effectively forms stable complexes with CaM in vivo (CITATION ). Cells co-expressing DsPTP1-Cub-RUra3p and Nub-CaM used for a positive control were unable to grow on plates lacking uracil but grew on plates containing 5-FOA CITATION. No interactions were observed between Cub-RUra3p and Nub-CaM, which was used as a negative control. To examine the kinase activity of CBRLK1, the GST-fused CBRLK1 KD (residues 457–830) was expressed in E. coli and purified by affinity chromatography. To know the requirement of divalent cations for kinase activity of CBRLK1, different amounts of MgCl2 and MnCl2 were used in the kinase assay. A linear increase in the enzymatic activity of the CBRLK1 KD was observed in the range of 0.5–10mM MgCl2, followed by a plateau of the autophosphorylation at more than 10mM MgCl2. MnCl2 conferred the highest enzymatic activity of the CBRLK1 KD at 2mM (CITATION A). The ability of the CBRLK1 protein to phosphorylate other proteins was tested with general substrates such as myelin basic protein (MBP), casein, and histone (Type IIIS). All proteins were clearly phosphorylated by the CBRLK1 KD (CITATIONB). To confirm the residue specificity of CBRLK1 autophosphorylation, phosphoamino acid assays were performed by using an autophosphorylated CBRLK1 KD fusion protein. In these assays, serine and threonine residues were phosphorylated, and no phosphorylated tyrosine residues were detected (CITATIONC). These results strongly indicate that CBRLK1 is a functional Ser/Thr protein kinase. To map the autophosphorylation sites in CBRLK1, TiO2 chromatography in combination with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry was used to selectively enrich phosphopeptides. The GST-fused CBRLK1 KD protein was autophosphorylated in vitro, separated by SDS–PAGE, and digested with trypsin. After TiO2 purification and R3 desalting, a total of nine serine/threonine residues originating from 11 phosphopeptide peaks were autophosphorylated in vitro (CITATION and CITATION). Consequently seven autophosphorylation sites are located in several kinase subdomains and two autophosphorylation sites in behind kinase domain, but not in the CaMBD of CBRLK1. These results indicate that multiple serine/threonine residues on CBRLK1 are autophosphorylated. To determine the subcellular localization of CBRLK1, the fluorescence pattern of green fluorescent protein (GFP) was monitored in transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively expressed CBRLK1–GFP fusion proteins using confocal microscopy. The fluorescence of GFP was detected in the living root cells of 1-week-old seedlings grown on an agar-solidified medium. Free-GFP and ACA8-GFP were used as cytosol and plasma membrane marker proteins, respectively CITATION. The fluorescent signal of free-GFP was dispersed throughout the whole cell and that of ACA8-GFP was clearly detected in the plasma membrane. The fluorescent signal of CBRLK1–GFP was mainly detected in the plasma membrane (CITATION ). Compared to the GFP fluorescence in ACA8-GFP, the diffused GFP signal around plasma membrane in CBRLK1–GFP was partly detected. It is possible that the diffused GFP signal might come from intracellular vesicles because receptor kinases have been known to be internalized for the regulation CITATION. To verify the expression of the intact full-length protein in transgenic plants, we performed Western blotting using an anti-GFP antibody. All GFP fused CBRLK1 were detected at their expected sizes (data not shown).
!~MM~! Screening of the Arabidopsis cDNA expression library using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)–conjugated Arabidopsis calmodulin 2 (AtCaM2) (AtCaM2::HRP) was carried out as previously described CITATION. All clones were individually introduced into E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS and expressed. Recombinant proteins were purified on a glutathione-sepharose 4B column (GE healthcare). Expressed glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fusion proteins were detected using a polyclonal GST-specific antiserum. The CaM:HRP overlay assay was carried out as previously described CITATION. AtCaM2 (303pmol) was incubated with increasing concentrations of the 18 amino acids peptide spanning the CBRLK1 calmodulin binding domain (CaMBD) (601Val–618Ile) in binding buffer (100mM Tris–HCl [pH 7.2], plus 0.1mM CaCl2 or 2mM EGTA) at room temperature for 1h. The bound complexes were resolved by non-denaturing PAGE and visualized by staining with Coomassie brilliant blue. Bovine heart CaM-deficient PDE (Sigma) activity was assayed as described in CITATION with varying concentrations of AtCaM2 (1–200nM) plus 100nM synthetic peptide. The following equation was used to calculate dissociation constants CITATION: Kd =([Pt ]+ K −[CaM])K/([CaM-]−K), where [Pt ] is the total concentration of peptide added and [CaM] and K represent the concentrations of CaM required to obtain half-maximal activation of PDE in the presence or absence of peptides, respectively. The yeast split ubiquitin assay was performed as previously described CITATION. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain JD53 was used for all the experiments. CBRLK1 cDNA was cloned into pMet-Ste14-Cub-RUra3, replacing yeast Ste14. AtCaM2 cDNA was cloned into modified versions of the pCup-Nub-Sec62 vector, replacing yeast Sec62 CITATION. Interactions between each pair of proteins were tested on selective medium containing 1mg/ml 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA) and selective medium lacking uracil. Plates were incubated at 30°C for 3–5d, unless specified otherwise. The kinase activity of CBRLK1 was measured as the incorporation of radioactivity from γ-32P-ATP into the CBRLK1 kinase domain (KD) protein (autophosphorylation) or into the substrate proteins. Assays were performed at room temperature for 30min in a final volume of 20μl containing 500ng of GST–CBRLK1 KD fusion protein, 10μCi of γ-32P-ATP, 50mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 1mM DTT, 0.5mM EDTA, and 0.5mM EGTA in the different concentrations of divalent cations (Mg2+ or Mn2+) and substrate proteins. GST-fused CBRLK1 KD protein bands autophosphorylated in vitro were in-gel digested CITATION by modified trypsin (Promega). The tryptic peptides were dissolved in loading buffer (80% acetonitrile/5% trifluoroacetic acid) and passed through a TiO2 microcolumn CITATION. The phosphopeptides were eluted with NH4OH (pH 10.5), purified by Poros Oligo R3 reversed-phase material (Applied Biosystems), and eluted using 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB; Fluka) solution (20mg/ml DHB in 50% acetonitrile/0.1% trifluoroacetic acid/1% ortho-phosphoric acid) directly onto the target CITATION. MALDI-TOF analysis was performed using a Voyager-DE STR mass spectrometer (PerSeptive Biosystems Inc.). Mass spectra were obtained in the reflectron/delayed extraction mode. Monoisotopic peptide masses were analyzed using the MoverZ software (www.proteometric.com). Confocal images were generated using a laser confocal microscope (Olympus, Fluoview 1000) attached to a vertical microscope equipped with a fluorescein filter. An X100, 1.35 Plan Apo objective lens was used to image root tips. The GFP signal was excited with the 488nm wavelength under confocal laser-scanning microscope with argon ion laser system. These fluorescence images were collected in the green channels.
