!~ABS~! AtMPB2C is the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) homolog of MPB2C, a microtubule-associated host factor of tobacco mosaic virus movement protein that was been previously identified in Nicotiana tabacum. To analyze the endogenous function of AtMPB2C and its role in viral infections, transgenic Arabidopsis plant lines stably overexpressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-AtMPB2C were established. The GFP-AtMPB2C fusion protein was detectable in various cell types and organs and localized at microtubules in a punctuate pattern or in filaments. To determine whether overexpression impacted on the cortical microtubular cytoskeleton, GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were compared to known microtubular marker lines. In rapidly elongated cell types such as vein cells and root cells, GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression caused highly unordered assemblies of cortical microtubules, a disturbed, snake-like microtubular shape, and star-like crossing points of microtubules. Phenotypically, GFP-AtMPB2C transgenic plants showed retarded growth but were viable and fertile. Seedlings of GFP-AtMPB2C transgenic plants were characterized by clockwise twisted leaves, clustered stomata, and enhanced drought tolerance. GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants showed increased resistance against oilseed rape mosaic virus, a close relative of tobacco mosaic virus, but not against cucumber mosaic virus when compared to Arabidopsis wild-type plants. These results suggest that AtMPB2C is involved in the alignment of cortical microtubules, the patterning of stomata, and restricting tobamoviral infections.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis contains only a single homolog of MPB2C, AtMPB2C, with a calculated molecular mass of 37,35 kD (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, Arabidopsis presents an ideal system to study the function of the AtMPB2C protein. Bioinformatic analysis of NtMPB2C, NbMPB2C, and AtMPB2C highlights a coiled-coil region (CITATION) in AtMPB2C similar as described for the N. tabacum MPB2C (CITATION). An alignment of MPB2C protein sequences from Arabidopsis, N. tabacum, and N. benthamiana showed four conserved domains (Fig. 1 ), with domain II and III located within the coiled-coil region. Thus, there is considerable similarity, suggesting that AtMPB2C has functions similar to the NtMPB2C and NbMPB2C proteins. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize AtMPB2C functions, the generation of AtMPB2C knockdown plants and GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression lines was attempted, the latter one with the aim to facilitate microtubular analysis on the subcellular level. Whereas in the case of knockdown lines, whose generation was attempted by transforming plants with a silencing construct, no transformants could be regenerated (data not shown), the generation of GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression lines was successful. AtMPB2C cDNA was cloned by reverse transcription-PCR from RNA derived from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) into the binary vector pMDC43, an overexpression vector, which contains two 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoters followed by the GFP coding sequence (CITATION) to enable expression of GFP-AtMPB2C fusion protein at high levels. Arabidopsis wild-type plants were transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION) and several nonsegregating transgenic lines were established. To confirm overexpression of GFP-AtMPB2C in those lines, total protein extracts were analyzed by western blotting with a GFP antibody. Indeed, in GFP-AtMPB2C transgenic plants, a band at the expected height of the GFP-AtMPB2C fusion protein was present, which was absent in wild-type plants (Fig. 2 , compare lanes 2 and 3 to lane 1). Two lines were selected for subsequent experiments and yielded similar results. [[FIGURE]] Previous experiments in N. tabacum indicated punctuate localization of MPB2C at microtubules (CITATION). To test whether AtMPB2C was similarly localized, its subcellular localization in Arabidopsis was evaluated in two ways. Firstly, by transient expression of GFP-AtMPB2C via biolistic delivery into wild-type plants and secondly by analyzing various cell types in transgenic plants expressing GFP-AtMPB2C. For transient expression, the pMDC43-GFP-AtMPB2C vector was biolistically delivered into epidermal leaf cells of Arabidopsis Col-0 wild-type plants. Expressing cells were analyzed by confocal microscopy. The GFP-AtMPB2C fusion protein showed a punctuate localization pattern (Fig. 3A ). In transgenic Arabidopsis plants, GFP-AtMPB2C fusion protein was clearly detectable in various tissues and organs by confocal microscopy. In epidermal leaf cells, GFP-AtMPB2C appeared either as a mixture of filaments and punctae (Fig. 3B) or it localized solely in filaments (Fig. 3C). [[FIGURE]] Punctuate localization of AtMPB2C was similar to the pattern observed for endogenous MPB2C detected in N. tabacum protoplasts (CITATION). Filamentous localization pattern was also previously observed for an N terminally truncated version of MPB2C, which decorated microtubules in a continuous fashion (CITATION). In the case of GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression lines, filamentous appearance is probably due to the high levels of protein. In summary, AtMPB2C displays a localization pattern in line with the pattern found for the tobacco homolog, indicating that AtMPB2C likely localizes to microtubules. To confirm that GFP-AtMPB2C binds to microtubules, plant leaves were treated with oryzalin, a drug that inhibits polymerization of microtubules (CITATION). As a control, a GFP-TUA6 line (CITATION) was used, where α-tubulin fused to GFP is overexpressed and readily incorporated into microtubules. Leaves of GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression lines and of control plants were incubated in 20 μm oryzalin in 0.1% ethanol or in 0.1% ethanol for 20 h. Confocal images were taken before and at the end of the incubation period. GFP-AtMPB2C appeared in filaments before treatment (Fig. 3D) and after 20-h incubation in 0.1% ethanol (Fig. 3E). After incubation in 20 μm oryzalin, filaments disappeared and a uniform cytoplasmic fluorescence was observed instead (Fig. 3F). GFP-TUA6-expressing leaves showed fluorescent filaments representing microtubules before treatment (Fig. 3G; CITATION). After 20 h of treatment with 20 μm oryzalin, GFP-TUA6 appeared as diffuse cytoplasmic labeling, indicating that microtubules were depolymerized (Fig. 3I). Interestingly, incubation in 0.1% ethanol resulted already in a strong reduction of filamentous labeling, as only occasionally was labeling of microtubules visible (Fig. 3H, arrows). Overall, these results indicate that GFP-AtMPB2C localizes to microtubules. However, in contrast to GFP-TUA6, GFP-AtMPB2C likely exerts a stabilizing function, because microtubules remained intact upon incubation in ethanol (Fig. 3E), whereas GFP-TUA6-labeled microtubules were largely lost under those conditions (Fig. 3H). To determine if overexpression of GFP-AtMPB2C changes the organization of the cortical microtubular cytoskeleton, GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were compared to known microtubular marker lines expressing MAP4-GFP and GFP-TUA6. In the MAP4-GFP transgenic line, MAP4 is overexpressed in Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 and decorates microtubules (CITATION; CITATION). Cortical microtubular assemblies showed a striking difference between GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing lines and marker lines in vein cells and roots. In GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing trichomes, vein cells and root cells microtubules appeared snake-like (Fig. 4, A, C, E, and F , arrows) and crossed each other, forming star-like clusters (CITATION; Fig. 4, A, C, E, and F, circles). This was in contrast to the marker lines, where microtubules in those cell types had a more straight shape (Fig. 4, B, D, and G). The regularity of cortical microtubular arrays in vein cells and root cells also differed between GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing transgenic plants (Fig. 4, E and F) and those in the marker lines (Fig. 4G). GFP-AtMPB2C-decorated microtubules were unordered and extended in all directions (Fig. 4, C, E, and F). In contrast, microtubules in control root cells and vein cells were regularly ordered and arrayed transversely to the longitudinal axis (Fig. 4, D and G) similar to cortical microtubular arrays in Arabidopsis wild-type plants (CITATION). Interestingly, in cells where GFP-AtMPB2C manifested as punctae, enrichment at some microtubular star-like clusters became apparent (Fig. 4E, orange circles). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, analysis of the cortical microtubular array in root tips was performed. GFP-AtMPB2C-decorated microtubules showed strong bundling, leading to short and thick microtubules (Fig. 4H). In root tips of MAP4-GFP-overexpressing plants, however, no bundling of microtubules was observed (Fig. 4I). In summary, overexpression of GFP-AtMPB2C leads to severe disturbance of cortical microtubular arrays in elongated cell types such as trichomes, vein cells, and root cells, as well as in root tips. Transgenic plants overexpressing GFP-AtMPB2C showed retarded growth and reduced efficiency in the production of seeds but were viable and fertile (data not shown). Interestingly, seedlings grown on GM medium or soil developed clockwise twisted leaves. On GM medium, this phenotype first became apparent in 13-d-old seedlings and became more pronounced during development (Fig. 5A , left); it was clearly absent from wild-type seedlings grown in the same conditions (Fig. 5B, right). The phenotype was also visible in older plants grown directly on soil (Fig. 5B, left). Because leaves were twisted, we also examined petioles to see whether any differences in cellular arrangement were apparent. Petioles of GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants appeared thicker than those of wild-type plants (Fig. 5A, bottom). At the microscopic level, this impression was clearly confirmed (Fig. 5C). Here, individual cells of the petioles were larger in GFP-AtMPB2C-expressing lines than in their wild-type counterparts. However epidermal cells were arranged in regular files oriented along the axis of the petiole (Fig. 5C), both in GFP-AtMPB2C-expressing lines and in wild-type plants, indicating that arrangement of epidermal cell files is not the cause for the twisted leaf phenotype. [[FIGURE]] MPB2C has been identified as a negative regulator of viral cell-to-cell transport (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, it was hypothesized that on the endogenous level, MPB2C functions might include regulation of endogenous non-cell-autonomous processes. One of those processes is the patterning of stomata at leaf surfaces. Stomata are almost always separated from each other by at least one intervening cell (CITATION). This phenomenon is also called the one-cell-spacing rule. When the abaxial side of leaves of GFP-AtMPB2C transgenic plants grown on GM medium was examined, two or more stomata located next to each other could frequently be observed (Fig. 6, A and B ). In contrast, in Arabidopsis wild-type plants. stomata were usually separated by at least one cell (Fig. 6C). To quantify this phenomenon, stomata of 12 leaves from GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and wild-type plants were evaluated. In GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing lines, 75% of stomata were single, 18.5% were paired, 5.4% were triples, and 1% of stomata were found even in quartettes (Fig. 6D). Stomata in clusters were positioned at various angles to each other (compare, for example, stomata in box in Fig. 6A and in top box in Fig. 6B). In Arabidopsis wild-type plants, most of the stomata (96.1%) were single and only 3.9% were paired. No triple or quartette stomata were observed (Fig. 6E). Individual stomata appeared similar in GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and wild-type plants; they showed bilateral symmetry and were always composed of paired cells. In addition, the number of stomatal units (SU), the number of separate stomatal sites (CITATION), increased from 125 SU/mm2 in wild type to 247 SU/mm2 in GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression plants, indicating that stomatal sites are denser and the absolute number of stomata is larger in GFP-AtMPB2C overexpression plants. In summary, this analysis suggests that in GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants, the morphology of individual stomata is retained, whereas stomata patterning is severely disturbed. [[FIGURE]] Stomata control water loss under changing environmental conditions. Prompted by the increased number of stomata in plants overexpressing AtMPB2C, we analyzed the performance of these plants under drought stress conditions. Four-week-old, soil-grown, wild-type plants and overexpressor line GFP-AtMPB2C were exposed to a severe drought and analyzed for their survival rate. After a period of withholding water for 14 d, GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants showed significantly less wilting than wild-type plants. After rehydration for 48 h, 70% of GFP-AtMPB2C plants had recovered, while all wild-type plants had died (Fig. 7 ), showing that AtMPB2C overexpressors tolerate severe drought periods significantly better than wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] Based on the known negative effect of transiently overexpressed MPB2C on TMV-MP cell-to-cell movement in N. tabacum (CITATION), it was expected that stable overexpression of AtMPB2C in plants might have a negative effect on TMV infections. Due to the symptomless nature of TMV infection in Arabidopsis (CITATION), we used a related tobamovirus, ORMV, to test this hypothesis with the GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing lines. A total of 120 GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and 120 Arabidopsis wild-type plants were inoculated with ORMV. To evaluate whether plants were infected or not, total protein extracts were analyzed for the presence of viral coat protein, which is made in large amounts during tobamovirus infection and can be easily detected (CITATION). Indeed, a band at the expected height of the ORMV coat protein could be clearly detected 14 d after inoculation (Fig. 8A , compare lanes 2 and 3). At 3, 5, 7, and 14 d after inoculation, plants were harvested and their infection status was determined. For wild-type plants, none were infected at 3 d postinoculation (DPI), 63.3% of plants were infected at 5 DPI, 76.7% at 7 DPI, and 90% of plants were infected at 14 DPI (Fig. 8B). For GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants, none were infected at 3 DPI, 30% at 5 DPI, 36.7% at 7 DPI, and 53.3% of GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were infected at 14 DPI (Fig. 8B). These results indicate that overexpression of GFP-AtMPB2C has a negative effect on ORMV infections and that plants overexpressing GFP-AtMPB2C show increased resistance against ORMV. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether increased resistance is specific for ORMV infections or a more general effect, the LS strain of CMV (LS-CMV) was employed for a similar study. Again, detection of coat protein was used to determine the infection status of a plant (Fig. 8C). At 3 DPI, neither Arabidopsis wild-type plants nor GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were infected. At 7 DPI, 6.3% of wild-type plants were infected, 27.3% at 10 DPI, and 25% at 14 DPI of wild-type plants were infected (Fig. 8D). At 7 DPI 9.4% of GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were infected, 31.6% at 10 DPI, and 31.3% at 14 DPI (Fig. 8D). Thus, GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and Arabidopsis wild-type plants do not show a significant difference in infectivity, indicating that overexpression of GFP-AtMPB2C has no effect on LS-CMV infection. Taken together, these results confirm the hypothesis that stable overexpression of AtMPB2C in plants has a negative effect on ORMV infections. This negative effect is likely specific for ORMV infections, because LS-CMV infections were not impaired.
!~MM~! The T Coffee server (http://tcoffee.vital-it.ch/cgi-bin/Tcoffee/tcoffee_cgi/index.cgi; CITATION; CITATION) was used to align AtMPB2C, NtMPB2C, and NbMPB2C protein sequences. The resulting output in Clustal format was submitted to http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/interfaces/boxshade.html, a server that was used to shade the multiple-aligned MPB2C sequences. Conserved patterns in MPB2C protein sequences were detected by PRATT (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pratt). Four conserved patterns were found. Coiled coil domains were detected by Pepcoil (http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/interfaces/pepcoil.html). Total RNA of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Col-0 leaf tissue was extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Reverse transcription of the AtMPB2C mRNA was performed according to the following conditions: 10 μL of total RNA (1 μg) was incubated at 65°C for 5 min to destroy RNA secondary structures, placed on ice, and mixed with 10 μL of reaction mixture containing 1 mm dNTPs, 5× AMV Reverse Transcription buffer (Promega), 2.5 units of AMV Reverse Transcriptase (Promega), 20 mm dithiothreitol, 40 units RNAsin (Promega), and 5 pmol of primer revAtMPB2C-TOPO (5′-TTAATATGTAAAGGCTAGTGATTGCAGG-3′). The reaction mixture was incubated for 2 h at 42°C. AtMPB2C cDNA was amplified by PCR by adding primers AtMPB2C-TOPO (5′-CACCATGTATGAGCAGCAGCAACATTTC-3′) and revAtMPB2C-TOPO (5′-TTAATATGTAAAGGCTAGTGATTGCAGG-3′) with the following PCR conditions: 5 min at 95°C, followed by 40 cycles consisting of 30 s at 95°C, 1 min 45 s at 55°C, and 1 min at 72°C, followed by 7 min at 72°C. Primer AtMPB2C-TOPO was chosen such that the PCR fragment encoding the AtMPB2C cDNA could be cloned directionally into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector, a Gateway entry vector specifically designed for directional cloning (Invitrogen). Cloning was done according to the protocol of the manufacturer, giving rise to vector pENTR/D-AtMPB2C. The sequence of the 981-bp AtMPB2C cDNA was confirmed by sequencing. The T-DNA transformation vector pMDC43 (CITATION) contains two 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoters followed by a GFP coding sequence and a hygromycin resistance gene. The AtMPB2C cDNA from pENTR/D-AtMPB2C was inserted 3′ of the GFP coding sequence into vector pMDC43 by an in vitro LR recombination reaction performed according to the protocol of the manufacturer (Invitrogen), thereby giving rise to the construct pMDC43-GFP-AtMPB2C. For biolistic delivery, a hand-held gene gun (Bio-Rad Laboratories) was used. A total of 25 μg of plasmid pMDC43-GFP-AtMPB2C was coated onto 12.5 mg of 1-μm gold particles according to the manufacturer's instructions (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Arabidopsis leaves were bombarded at the bottom side of rosette leaves with a helium pressure of 250 psi (CITATION). Expressing cells were analyzed by confocal microscopy 24 h after bombardment. A small piece of plant tissue was excised and analyzed with a TCS-SP confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). GFP fluorescence was excited with an ArKr laser at 488 nm and detected at 500 to 550 nm. Serial optical sections were acquired in 1-μm steps. These sections were then assembled into projections using software supplied by the manufacturer (Leica Microsystems). The pMDC43-GFP-AtMPB2C vector was transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0 plants using Agrobacteria strain GV3101 (CITATION). Seeds were collected and grown on selective GM medium (4.3 g Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture [Sigma-Aldrich], 10 g Suc, 0.5 g MES [Sigma-Aldrich], 8 g agar, 1× vitamins of Murashige and Skoog vitamin powder [Sigma-Aldrich], pH 6.0) containing 20 μg mL−1 hygromycin. Nonsegregating plant lines were established and used for all experiments. Arabidopsis Col-0 stably overexpressing MAP4-GFP (CITATION; CITATION) or Arabidopsis gl1 stably overexpressing GFP-TUA6 were used (CITATION). For evaluation of phenotype for seed production, Arabidopsis plants were grown on GM medium or on soil at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). Plants for viral infections were grown on soil at 22°C under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h dark). Nicotiana tabacum plants were grown on soil at 20°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). Arabidopsis leaf tissue was frozen and ground to powder in liquid nitrogen. Proteins were extracted by shaking the powder in the same volume of 2× Laemmli sample buffer for 30 min and subsequent boiling for 10 min. The extract was cleared by ultracentrifugation at 35,000g for 1 h. Proteins were separated on 12% SDS-PAGE gels and blotted onto nitrocellulose membrane. The blot was blocked in M-TBS (5% [w/v] milk powder, 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 150 mm sodium chloride) for 30 min, incubated for 2 h with anti-GFP antibody (Roche) at a dilution of 1:1,000 in M-TBS, washed three times with M-TBS, and incubated for 1 h with alkaline phosphatase-coupled goat anti-mouse antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) diluted at 1:30,000 in M-TBS. After washing three times with M-TBS and once with TBS (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 150 mm sodium chloride), the blot was developed with nitroblue tetrazolium chloride and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-phosphate. Thirty plants of each line, Arabidopsis wild-type and GFP-AtMPB2C overexpressor plants, were germinated on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium and transferred to soil in single pots 10 d after germination. Plants were grown under long-day conditions. For drought stress, 4-week-old plants were withheld from water for 2 weeks. The survival rate was determined after 48 h of rehydration of wilted plants. Six-week-old N. tabacum plants were mechanically inoculated with ORMV particles. Plants were regularly visually inspected for mosaic symptoms and necrotic lesions, which became apparent 3 weeks after inoculation. Purification of ORMV particles was done from 20 g of symptomatic leaves, similar to that of TMV particles (CITATION). The concentration of the viral particles was determined by measuring the A260. The yield was estimated assuming an extinction coefficient of 3.0 for a 1 mg mL−1 solution. All steps were performed with autoclaved material at 4°C or on ice. LS-CMV-infected N. tabacum tissue was homogenized by grinding in 1 mL buffer A (0.5 m sodium citrate, pH 5.7) per gram of plant tissue. One volume of chloroform and 0.1% of total volume of thioglycolic acid was added. The homogenized plant tissue was centrifuged at 11,950g for 10 min. The upper, aqueous phase was filtered through Miracloth, pipetted onto a 10% Suc cushion, and centrifuged at 185,500g in an ultracentrifuge for 90 min. The virion pellet was resuspended in 3 mL buffer C (0.05 m sodium citrate, pH 7.0) overnight and cleared by centrifugation at 5,400g for 10 min. Three parts of supernatant were mixed with 1 part of 10% Suc cushion and centrifuged in an ultracentrifuge at 48,500g for 90 min. The virion pellet was resuspended in 1 mL buffer C overnight, and a final centrifugation at 5,400g for 10 min was performed. Virion concentration was determined at 260 nm. OD260 = 5 for 1 mg mL−1 LS-CMV. Virion solution was mixed with 1 volume VEBA (0.2 m Tris, pH 8.5, 1 m NaCl, 2 mm EDTA, 1% SDS), 1 volume chloroform, and 4 volumes phenol, stirred at room temperature for 15 min, and centrifuged at 11,950g for 10 min at room temperature. The upper, aqueous phase was recovered, and the procedure was repeated once with 1 volume chloroform and 2 volumes phenol and a second time with 0.2 volumes chloroform and 0.8 volumes phenol, followed by centrifugation at 11,950g for 10 min at 4°C. Next, the upper, aqueous phase was recovered, mixed with 1 volume 1-butanol, and centrifuged at 2,900g for 5 min at 4°C. The upper 1-butanol phase was discarded. To precipitate RNA, the aqueous phase was mixed with 2.5 volumes absolute ethanol and 0.1 volume 2 m sodium acetate, pH 5.2, incubated for at least 3 h at 4°C and centrifuged at 7,650g for 20 min at 4°C. The RNA pellet was washed with 70% ethanol, air dried for 10 min, and dissolved in an appropriate amount of water. RNA concentration was determined by measuring A260. Purified ORMV particles at a concentration of 40 ng μL−1 in 50 mm phosphate buffer (0.5 m disodium hydrogen orthophosphate, pH 7.2) served as standardized inoculum for infection. Three leaves per plant were dusted with silicon carbide powder and 5 μL of diluted ORMV particle solution was rubbed into the surface of each leaf. At 3, 5, 7, and 14 d postinoculation, the green tissue of 10 Arabidopsis plants and 10 GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants, respectively, was individually frozen in liquid nitrogen. Similarly, wild-type plants and GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were inoculated with 0.5 μg of purified LS-CMV RNA per plant. Green tissue was harvested at 3, 7, 10, and 14 d postinoculation. Plants were homogenized individually in 2× Laemmli sample buffer, and total protein extract was prepared by shaking for 30 min and boiled for 10 min at 95°C. Proteins were separated on a 12% denaturing SDS-PAGE gel and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250. Plants were scored positive for infection if a coat protein band was visible. The percentage of infected plants for each time point and plant line was calculated and the weighted mean of the percentage of infection and the error of the weighted mean were calculated and assembled into a graph (CITATION). For each virus, 120 wild type and 120 GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants were evaluated. Oryzalin (Sigma-Aldrich) was used at a concentration of 20 μm in 0.1% ethanol. Leaves of GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and GFP-TUA6-overexpressing plants were cut into pieces and incubated at room temperature in 20 μm oryzalin or in 0.1% ethanol for 20 h. To remove chlorophyll, plant tissue was repeatedly washed in 70% ethanol until the ethanol remained clear. Washing was continued in 40, 20, and 10% ethanol for 5 to 10 min each, followed by incubation in 4% ethanol and 25% glycerol for 2 h or overnight. For staining, the leaves were washed twice with water and incubated for 30 min in a 20-μg/mL propidium iodide solution (Sigma-Aldrich). Plant tissue was mounted on a microscope slide and examined on the abaxial side of leaves with a Leica TCS-SP confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). Propidium iodide fluorescence was excited at 488 nm and detected at 600 to 620 nm. Four images were taken per leaf. Twelve leaves of GFP-AtMPB2C-overexpressing plants and 12 leaves of Arabidopsis wild-type plants grown on GM medium were analyzed by counting the total number of stomata. The percentage of stomata in clusters was determined.
