!~ABS~! Pollen represents an important nitrogen sink in flowers to ensure pollen viability. Since pollen cells are symplasmically isolated during maturation and germination, membrane transporters are required for nitrogen import across the pollen plasma membrane. This study describes the characterization of the ammonium transporter AtAMT1;4, a so far uncharacterized member of the Arabidopsis AMT1 family, which is suggested to be involved in transporting ammonium into pollen. The AtAMT1;4 gene encodes a functional ammonium transporter when heterologously expressed in yeast or when overexpressed in Arabidopsis roots. Concentration-dependent analysis of 15N-labeled ammonium influx into roots of AtAMT1;4-transformed plants allowed characterization of AtAMT1;4 as a high-affinity transporter with a Km of 17 μM. RNA and protein gel blot analysis showed expression of AtAMT1;4 in flowers, and promoter–gene fusions to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) further defined its exclusive expression in pollen grains and pollen tubes. The AtAMT1;4 protein appeared to be localized to the plasma membrane as indicated by protein gel blot analysis of plasma membrane-enriched membrane fractions and by visualization of GFP-tagged AtAMT1;4 protein in pollen grains and pollen tubes. However, no phenotype related to pollen function could be observed in a transposon-tagged line, in which AtAMT1;4 expression is disrupted. These results suggest that AtAMT1;4 mediates ammonium uptake across the plasma membrane of pollen to contribute to nitrogen nutrition of pollen via ammonium uptake or retrieval.
!~RES~! Out of the six AMT proteins identified in Arabidopsis, five have been subjected to functional analysis to date. For a functional characterization of AtAMT1;4 (At4g28700), the corresponding gene was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA of the Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 which was possible due to the absence of introns. The open reading frame (ORF) in AtAMT1;4 is 1,515 bp long and encodes a protein of 504 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 53.7 kDa. At the amino acid level, AtAMT1;4 shares a high degree of homology (69.7–74.3% identity) to other members of the AMT1 family in Arabidopsis. To investigate the functional properties of the AtAMT1;4 protein, the ORF of AtAMT1;4 was cloned into the yeast expression vector p426 and placed under control of the constitutively active yeast hexose transporter promoter HXT7. The resulting construct was used for transformation of the yeast stain 31019b, which is defective in the expression of three endogenous ammonium transporter genes (mep1, mep2 and mep3) (Marini et al. CITATION). This strain grows poorly on low ammonium concentrations (<5 mM) as a sole nitrogen source. In contrast to transformants carrying the empty vector, yeast cells expressing either AtAMT1;4 or AtAMT1;1 were able to grow on 1 mM ammonium, indicating that AtAMT1;4, similarly to AtAMT1;1, encodes a functional ammonium transporter (CITATION).Fig. 1.Growth complementation of the ammonium uptake-defective yeast strain 31019b by AtAMT1;4. The triple mep yeast mutant 31019b was transformed with the empty vector p426, p426-AtAMT1;4 or p426-AtAMT1;1. Transformants were pre-cultured for 24 h on YNB medium supplemented with 5 mM arginine. A 1 ml aliquot of a saturated culture was harvested, and resuspended in 1 ml of water. One- to 5-fold dilutions of a 5 μ l aliquot of yeast cell suspension were spotted on YNB medium supplemented with either 5 mM arginine or 1 mM NH4Cl at pH 6.0. Growth complementation of the ammonium uptake-defective yeast strain 31019b by AtAMT1;4. The triple mep yeast mutant 31019b was transformed with the empty vector p426, p426-AtAMT1;4 or p426-AtAMT1;1. Transformants were pre-cultured for 24 h on YNB medium supplemented with 5 mM arginine. A 1 ml aliquot of a saturated culture was harvested, and resuspended in 1 ml of water. One- to 5-fold dilutions of a 5 μ l aliquot of yeast cell suspension were spotted on YNB medium supplemented with either 5 mM arginine or 1 mM NH4Cl at pH 6.0. AtAMT1;4 was then constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis plants to examine whether AtAMT1;4 has the potential to contribute to ammonium uptake in roots. To circumvent transport activities from endogenous AtAMTs in Arabidopsis roots, a multiple insertion line (qko) was chosen for transformation, in which the high-affinity ammonium uptake capacity is reduced by approximately 90% due to the genetic disruption of the AtAMT1;1, 1;2, 1;3 and 2;1 genes (Yuan et al. CITATION). Four independent homozygous lines from the T2 generation of CaMV35S:AtAMT1;4 transformants were selected for further investigation. RNA gel blot analysis of root RNA from 6-week-old plants grown in nitrogen-sufficient nutrient solution showed that AtAMT1;4 transcripts were highly expressed in roots of the transgenic lines H2f, H3a, H6d and H8g (CITATIONA). No hybridization signal was detected in qko, confirming that AtAMT1;4 is not or at least very weakly expressed in roots under these conditions. Furthermore, large amounts of AtAMT1;4 protein were found in the same transgenic lines by protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from roots using a rabbit antibody directed against 15 amino acid residues in the C-terminus of AtAMT1;4. Also no protein signal was detected in qko (CITATIONB). Two AtAMT1;4-specific bands were observed with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 40 and 80 kDa. Although the predicted molecular weight of the AtAMT1;4 protein is approximately 53.7 kDa, the 40 kDa band is supposed to correspond to the monomer, since lipophilic membrane proteins usually migrate at a lower apparent molecular mass (Sauer and Stadler CITATION). The 80 kDa band probably represents the dimer of AtAMT1;4 or a stable complex with another unknown protein. Fig. 2.Overexpression of AtAMT1;4 in a multiple insertion line defective in high-affinity ammonium uptake. (A) RNA gel blot analysis of root RNA from a quadruple knock-out line (qko), and qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants (lines H2f, H3a, H6d and H8g) using the ORF of AtAMT1;4 as a probe. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA served as loading control. Six-week-old plants were cultured hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate. (B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from roots of the same plants as in (A) using an antibody directed against 15 amino acids from the C-terminus of AtAMT1;4 (anti-AtAMT1;4). Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). Protein levels of DET3 served as a loading control. (C) Microsomal fractions (M) from shoots of qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants (H3a) were separated by aqueous two-phase partitioning into a plasma membrane-enriched upper phase (U) and an endosomal membrane-enriched lower phase (L). Protein gel blot analysis was conducted with antibodies against AtAMT1;4, an Arabidopsis plasma membrane H+-ATPase (AtAHA2), a V-ATPase (DET3) and a VPPase. Overexpression of AtAMT1;4 in a multiple insertion line defective in high-affinity ammonium uptake. (A) RNA gel blot analysis of root RNA from a quadruple knock-out line (qko), and qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants (lines H2f, H3a, H6d and H8g) using the ORF of AtAMT1;4 as a probe. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA served as loading control. Six-week-old plants were cultured hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate. (B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from roots of the same plants as in (A) using an antibody directed against 15 amino acids from the C-terminus of AtAMT1;4 (anti-AtAMT1;4). Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). Protein levels of DET3 served as a loading control. (C) Microsomal fractions (M) from shoots of qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants (H3a) were separated by aqueous two-phase partitioning into a plasma membrane-enriched upper phase (U) and an endosomal membrane-enriched lower phase (L). Protein gel blot analysis was conducted with antibodies against AtAMT1;4, an Arabidopsis plasma membrane H+-ATPase (AtAHA2), a V-ATPase (DET3) and a VPPase. To examine the subcellular localization of AtAMT1; 4 in these transgenic lines, shoot microsomal membrane fractions of the line H3a were separated by two-phase partitioning into a plasma membrane-enriched upper phase (U) and a lower phase (L) enriched in endosomal membranes including endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, chloroplast and tonoplast membranes (CITATIONC). The purity of these membrane fractions was verified by the abundance of the DET3 protein, a subunit of the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase; Schumacher et al. CITATION), and, alternatively, by the abundance of the vacuolar pyrophosphatase (VPPase; Takasu et al. CITATION), which both were enriched in the lower phase. In contrast, AtAMT1;4 protein accumulated in the upper phase, coinciding with high expression levels of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase AHA2 (DeWitt et al. CITATION). This observation strongly indicated a localization of the AtAMT1;4 protein in the plasma membrane. To test the functionality of overexpressed AtAMT1;4 protein in roots, qko and three transgenic lines (H2f, H3a and H8g) were grown on agar medium supplemented with either ammonium or nitrate as the sole nitrogen source. At 250 μM ammonium, qko plants grew poorly because of a low ammonium uptake capacity in roots (Yuan et al. CITATION), while the transgenic lines were able to increase shoot biomass significantly, indicating that AtAMT1;4 is able to mediate ammonium uptake into plant roots (CITATIONA, B). In contrast, plant growth did not differ between qko and transgenic plants with the supply of 250 μ M nitrate. Besides ammonium, plant AMT1-type transporters have also been shown to permeate the substrate analog methylammonium (MeA) which is toxic to plants (Loqué et al. CITATION, Yuan et al. CITATION). When grown on 1 mM nitrate in the presence of 10 mM MeA, the transgenic lines showed a much higher sensitivity to MeA than qko plants (CITATIONC, D), supporting that AtAMT1;4 is also able to transport MeA. Fig. 3.Growth of qko-35S-AtAMT1;4 transgenic lines on ammonium and its toxic analog methylammonium (MeA). (A) Growth of qko plants and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 plants (lines H2f, H3a and H8g) on agar containing 250 μ M NH4+ (125 μ M as ammonium succinate) or 250 μ M NO3− (250 μ M as potassium nitrate) for 10 d after pre-culture on half-strength MS medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as sole nitrogen source) for 7 d. (B) Shoot dry weights of the same plants as in (A). Bars indicate means ± SD (n = 6), and significant differences at P < 0.001 within each group are indicated by different letters. (C) Growth of qko plants and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 plants (lines H2f, H3a and H8g) on agar containing no or 10 mM MeA in the presence 1 mM nitrate and 1% sucrose for 10 d after pre-culture on half-strength MS medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as sole nitrogen source) for 8 d. (D) Shoot dry weights of the same plants as in (C). Bars indicate means ± SD (n = 4), and significant differences at P < 0.001 within each group are indicated by different letters. Growth of qko-35S-AtAMT1;4 transgenic lines on ammonium and its toxic analog methylammonium (MeA). (A) Growth of qko plants and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 plants (lines H2f, H3a and H8g) on agar containing 250 μ M NH4+ (125 μ M as ammonium succinate) or 250 μ M NO3− (250 μ M as potassium nitrate) for 10 d after pre-culture on half-strength MS medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as sole nitrogen source) for 7 d. (B) Shoot dry weights of the same plants as in (A). Bars indicate means ± SD (n = 6), and significant differences at P < 0.001 within each group are indicated by different letters. (C) Growth of qko plants and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 plants (lines H2f, H3a and H8g) on agar containing no or 10 mM MeA in the presence 1 mM nitrate and 1% sucrose for 10 d after pre-culture on half-strength MS medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as sole nitrogen source) for 8 d. (D) Shoot dry weights of the same plants as in (C). Bars indicate means ± SD (n = 4), and significant differences at P < 0.001 within each group are indicated by different letters. To evaluate the ammonium uptake capacity in roots, a short-term influx study was conducted using 15N-labeled ammonium, and 15N was subsequently determined by stable isotope mass spectrometry. Six-week-old plants grown hydroponically under nitrogen-sufficient conditions were subjected to influx analysis at 200 μ M 15N-labeled ammonium as a measure for high-affinity uptake. All four lines showed an almost 2-fold higher ammonium uptake capacity compared with qko (CITATIONA). In contrast, no significant difference was observed when the influx analyses were conducted at 5 mM 15N-labeled ammonium supply (Supplementary Fig. S1). Low-affinity ammonium uptake capacity, as calculated by subtraction of the influx value at 200 μ M from that at 5 mM, did not differ among the lines (data not shown). Therefore, these results indicate that overexpression of AtAMT1;4 in qko roots increases the capacity for high-affinity but not for low-affinity ammonium uptake. To investigate the biochemical properties of AtAMT1;4 in more detail, a concentration-dependent influx analysis was performed with qko and the transgenic line H8g (CITATIONB). Ammonium influx in qko roots followed almost a linear concentration dependency, indicative of a lack of high-affinity uptake as described in Yuan et al. (CITATION). However, ammonium influx in H8g roots saturated above approximately 100 μ M. Net ammonium influx mediated by the AtAMT1;4 protein was then determined by subtraction of values of qko from those of H8g, allowing calculation of a Km value of approximately 17 μ M (CITATIONC). Fig. 4.Increased high-affinity ammonium uptake capacity in qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants. (A) Influx of 15N-labeled ammonium into roots of qko and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 lines (H2f, H3a, H6d and H8g). 15N-labeled ammonium was supplied at 200 μ M. Bars indicate means ± SD, n = 8–10 plants, and significant differences at P < 0.001 are indicated by different letters. (B) Concentration-dependent influx of 15N-labeled ammonium into roots of qko and the transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 line H8g. Symbols indicate means ± SD, n = 5–6 plants. (C) 15N-labeled ammonium influx mediated by AtAMT1;4 was calculated by subtracting the value of qko from H8g in (B). Curves were directly fitted to the data for H8g in (B) and those in (C) using the Michaelis–Menten equation. A linear curve was used to fit the data for qko in (B).The caclulated Km value for AtAMT1;4 was 17 ± 5.3 μ M. All plants were cultured hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate for 6 weeks. Increased high-affinity ammonium uptake capacity in qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 transgenic plants. (A) Influx of 15N-labeled ammonium into roots of qko and transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 lines (H2f, H3a, H6d and H8g). 15N-labeled ammonium was supplied at 200 μ M. Bars indicate means ± SD, n = 8–10 plants, and significant differences at P < 0.001 are indicated by different letters. (B) Concentration-dependent influx of 15N-labeled ammonium into roots of qko and the transgenic qko-35S:AtAMT1;4 line H8g. Symbols indicate means ± SD, n = 5–6 plants. (C) 15N-labeled ammonium influx mediated by AtAMT1;4 was calculated by subtracting the value of qko from H8g in (B). Curves were directly fitted to the data for H8g in (B) and those in (C) using the Michaelis–Menten equation. A linear curve was used to fit the data for qko in (B).The caclulated Km value for AtAMT1;4 was 17 ± 5.3 μ M. All plants were cultured hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate for 6 weeks. Organ-specific expression of AtAMT1;4 was determined by RNA and protein gel blot analysis (CITATIONA, B). Total RNA was extracted from roots and shoots of hydroponically grown Arabidopsis plants, or from leaves, stems, flowers and siliques of mature plants grown in soil (CITATIONA). The ORFs of AtAMT1;4 and AtAMT1;1 were used as probes. While AtAMT1;1 showed a ubiquitous expression pattern with relatively weak expression in flowers, AtAMT1;4 was detected exclusively in flowers. Furthermore, using the AtAMT1;4-specific antibody, AtAMT1;4 protein was also exclusively detected in the microsomal membrane fractions of flower tissue (CITATIONB). There, the AtAMT1;4 protein appeared at a molecular mass of approximately 80 kDa. In contrast to the overexpressed AtAMT1;4 protein in transgenic roots and shoots of qko (CITATIONB, C), the putative monomer at 40 kDa was not observed in flowers. Fig. 5.Expression of AtAMT1;4 is restricted to pollen. (A) RNA gel blot analysis of RNA from various Arabidopsis tissues using the ORFs of AtAMT1;4 and AtAMT1;1 as probes. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA served as loading control. The tissues of roots (R) and shoots (S) were harvested from 6-week-old plants grown hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate, while leaves (L), stems (St), flowers (Fl) and siliques (Si) were obtained from 6-week-old plants grown in soil. (B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissue as in (A) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the left border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (C) Fluorescence microscopy of stamen (left) and pollinated stigmata (right) of transgenic plants expressing AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP construct. Expression of AtAMT1;4 is restricted to pollen. (A) RNA gel blot analysis of RNA from various Arabidopsis tissues using the ORFs of AtAMT1;4 and AtAMT1;1 as probes. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA served as loading control. The tissues of roots (R) and shoots (S) were harvested from 6-week-old plants grown hydroponically under continuous supply of 2 mM ammonium nitrate, while leaves (L), stems (St), flowers (Fl) and siliques (Si) were obtained from 6-week-old plants grown in soil. (B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissue as in (A) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the left border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (C) Fluorescence microscopy of stamen (left) and pollinated stigmata (right) of transgenic plants expressing AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP construct. To localize AtAMT1;4 expression in more detail, a genomic DNA fragment corresponding to 1,935 bp of the upstream region of AtAMT1;4 including the start codon and the ORF of AtAMT1;4 was fused to the EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) reporter gene and used for transformation of Arabidopsis wild-type plants. Thus, in these transgenic lines, the AtAMT1;4–GFP fusion protein was expressed under control of its native promoter. Within all of six independent T2 homozygous transgenic lines, GFP-dependent fluorescence of the fusion protein was detected exclusively in pollen (CITATIONC). According to Smyth et al. (CITATION), green fluorescence in pollen was initiated at flower stage 10 and became more intense with pollen maturity during floral development (Supplementary Fig. S2). AtAMT1;4 promoter activity also appeared to be high during pollen germination on the stigmata of flowers (CITATIONC). To determine the subcellular localization of the AtAMT1;4 protein in pollen, transgenic plants expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP construct were investigated in parallel using the same promoter sequence as for generation of the AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP lines. Mature pollen from transgenic plants was germinated in vitro on solid agar medium. By fluorescence imaging, AtAMT1;4-dependent green fluorescence appeared as a thin layer along the border of pollen grains (CITATIONA) and pollen tubes (CITATIONB), although some fluorescence was also observed in internal cell compartments. In the transgenic plants expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP construct, GFP-derived fluorescence was also found to be expressed only in pollen grains and pollen tubes (CITATIONC, D), which further confirmed the pollen-specific promoter activity of AtAMT1;4. In contrast to the AtAMT1;4–GFP fusion protein, soluble GFP produced fluorescence throughout the whole body of the pollen grain (CITATIONC) or pollen tube (CITATIOND). These observations indicated that the AtAMT1;4 protein localizes to the plasma membrane of pollen grains and pollen tubes. Fig. 6.AtAMT1;4 localizes to the plasma membrane of pollen grains and pollen tubes. Fluorescence microscopy of (A) a mature pollen grain and (B) a pollen tube of transgenic plants expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP construct or (C and D) expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP construct. GFP fluorescence micrographs in (A–D) were present on a black background, alongside equivalent light micrographs on a gray background. Flowers and pollen grains were harvested from 6-week-old plants grown in soil, and pollen tubes were germinated in vitro. AtAMT1;4 localizes to the plasma membrane of pollen grains and pollen tubes. Fluorescence microscopy of (A) a mature pollen grain and (B) a pollen tube of transgenic plants expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP construct or (C and D) expressing the AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP construct. GFP fluorescence micrographs in (A–D) were present on a black background, alongside equivalent light micrographs on a gray background. Flowers and pollen grains were harvested from 6-week-old plants grown in soil, and pollen tubes were germinated in vitro. To investigate further the physiological role of AtAMT1;4 in Arabidopsis pollen, six independent insertion lines for the AtAMT1;4 gene were identified by screening of publicly available libraries, and homozygous plants were generated and selected by PCR analysis. The T-DNA insertion sites were verified by sequencing to be upstream of the start codon of the AtAMT1;4 gene in five independent lines, named atamt1;4-1 to atamt1;4-5 (Supplementary Fig. S3). However, RNA gel blot analysis revealed that AtAMT1;4 gene expression was neither absent nor repressed. When compared with their corresponding wild-type Col-0, AtAMT1;4 expression was even higher in the lines atamt1;4-2, -3, -4 and -5, probably resulting from the presence of an additional promoter activity within the T-DNA insertion (Uelker et al. CITATION), or from the ectopic expression of AtAMT1;4 in other parts of flowers due to the disruption of pollen-specific elements in the AtAMT1;4 promoter region. With regard to the considerable level of AtAMT1;4 mRNA that could still be detected, only atamt1;4-1 appeared to represent a knock-down line (Supplementary Fig. S3). However, in the line atamt1;4-6, a transposon insertion was identified to be located within the ORF of AtAMT1;4, 654 bp downstream of the start codon (CITATIONA). As a consequence, AtAMT1;4 transcript abundance was absent, as revealed by RNA gel blot analysis of flower RNA (CITATIONB) and, in addition, no more AtAMT1;4 protein was detected in microsomal membrane fractions of flower tissue (CITATIONC). Subsequently, three independent transgenic lines were generated, in which AtAMT1;4 gene expression was conferred to atamt1;4-6 plants under control of its native promoter. The expression of AtAMT1;4 in these lines was evaluated at the transcript and protein levels as shown in CITATIONB and C. Fig. 7.Characterization of the transposon-tagged line atamt1;4-6. (A) The position of the transposon insertion in the ORF of AtAMT1;4 located 654 bp downstream of the start codon. (B) RT–PCR analysis of RNA from flowers of atamt1;4-6, the corresponding wild-type (ecotype Nössen), and three independent lines recomplemented with the ORF of AtAMT1;4 driven by its native promoter (3b, 9b and 17a). Expression of the Actin8 gene served as loading control. The plants were grown in soil for 6 weeks. (C) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissues as in (B) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (D) In vitro pollen germination assay of atamt1;4-6 and wild-type Nössen in the medium with the supply of different concentrations of MeA. Characterization of the transposon-tagged line atamt1;4-6. (A) The position of the transposon insertion in the ORF of AtAMT1;4 located 654 bp downstream of the start codon. (B) RT–PCR analysis of RNA from flowers of atamt1;4-6, the corresponding wild-type (ecotype Nössen), and three independent lines recomplemented with the ORF of AtAMT1;4 driven by its native promoter (3b, 9b and 17a). Expression of the Actin8 gene served as loading control. The plants were grown in soil for 6 weeks. (C) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissues as in (B) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (D) In vitro pollen germination assay of atamt1;4-6 and wild-type Nössen in the medium with the supply of different concentrations of MeA. The mutant line atamt1;4-6 was then analyzed regarding phenotypic differences in comparison with the corresponding wild-type Nössen and the complemented transgenic lines. However, when grown in nutrient solution or in soil substrate, no phenotypic difference appeared. The mutant plants were fertile and produced normal seeds. Moreover, no significant difference was observed with regard to pollen development, pollen size or pollen abundance (data not shown). In in vitro pollen germination assays, germination rates did not differ between mutant and wild-type pollen (CITATIOND). Since the AtAMT1;4 protein is able to transport MeA (CITATIONC, D), in vitro pollen germination in the presence of MeA was analyzed (CITATIOND). Pollen germination was strongly inhibited by increasing concentrations of MeA in the medium, indicating the acquisition of toxic MeA by pollen during the germination process. However, no significant difference in the pollen germination rate was observed between mutant and wild-type plants.
!~MM~! The ORF of AtAMT1;4 was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA (Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0) using the specific primers AMT1;4-HindIII, CCCAAGCTTATGGCGTCGGCTCTCTCTTG; and AMT1;4-XhoI, CCGCTCGAGTCAAACACTACATTGGGAT. The amplified fragment was cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) and DNA sequences were verified. The HindIII–XhoI fragment was subcloned into the yeast expression vector p426-HXT7 (kindly provided by Eckhard Boles, University of Düsseldorf, Germany) resulting in the plasmid, which was used for the transformation of the triple mep deletion yeast strain 31019b (Marini et al. CITATION). Growth complementation assays were performed on solid YNB medium supplemented with 3% glucose, and 5 mM arginine or 1 mM ammonium chloride as nitrogen sources, and buffered at pH 6.0 by 50 mM MES-Tris. Using the NotI restriction site, the DNA fragment containing the ORF of AtAMT1;4 was released from pGEM-T, and then subcloned into the plant transformation vector pGreen-Hyg which was modified based on pGreen0029 between the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and terminator sequence. A multiple knock-out line (qko) defective in the expression of AtAMT1;1, 1;2, 1;3 and 2;1 (Yuan et al. CITATION) was transformed by Agrobacterium, and transformants were selected via hygromycin resistance. Homozygous T2 lines were further selected by segregation analysis. The 1,935 bp promoter region upstream of the start codon of AtAMT1;4 was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA (A. thaliana Col-0) using the specific primers AMT1;4-pro-BamHI, CGGATCCCCAGACGTTTTGTGAGATGGTAAGAATGTG; and AMT1;4-pro-NcoI, GCCATGGTGTTGCAAAGATTAAGAGAGATTTTGTGAG, and then cloned into the PCR-Blunt II-TOPO vector (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA, USA). The BamHI–NcoI fragment was subcloned into the plant transformation vector pBI101 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) upstream of the EGFP coding sequence, resulting in the plasmid AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP. The fragment of the AtAMT1;4 promoter was inserted in front of the AtAMT1;4 ORF sequence in pGEM-T, and then the AtAMT1;4 promoter:ORF fragment was subcloned into the binary vector pTKan derived from pPZP212 (kindly provided by Karin Schumacher, ZMBP, Tübingen, Germany) at the Bsp120I restriction site. The ORF of AtAMT1;4 was amplified without a stop codon by PCR, ligated to the EGFP coding sequence, and this fragment was introduced into the plasmid AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF-pTKan using the PstI restriction site and yielding the plasmid AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP. Arabidopsis Col-0 transformed with both of these constructs by Agrobacterium were selected via kanamycin resistance, and homozygous T2 lines were further selected by segregation analysis. The fluorescence of GFP in the transgenic plants was observed by an inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with an Apotome (Zeiss Axiovert 200M, Jena, Germany) and by a confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) as described by Loqué et al. (2005, 2006). Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown hydroponically as described by Loqué et al. (CITATION) under non-sterile conditions for 6 weeks (±2 d) in a growth cabinet under the following conditions: 10/14 h light/dark at a temperature of 22°C/18°C and a light intensity of 280 μmol m−2 s−1 at 70% humidity. The nutrient solution contained 1 mM KH2PO4, 1 mM MgSO4, 250 μM K2SO4, 250 μM CaCl2, 2 mM NH4NO3, 100 μM Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 μ M KCl, 50 μM H3BO3, 5 μ M MnSO4, 1 μM ZnSO4, 1 μM CuSO4 and 1 μM NaMoO4, pH adjusted to 6.0 with KOH. In plate growth tests of transgenic lines, Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized and plated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as the sole nitrogen source) solidified with Difco agar. The plants were pre-cultured for 7 d and transferred to vertical plates containing half-strength MS medium supplemented with different nitrogen sources at the indicated concentrations. Plants were grown under axenic conditions in a growth chamber under the above-mentioned conditions except that the light intensity was 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1. In addition, the plants were grown in a pre-fertilized peat-based substrate (www.einheitserde.de) in a climate-controlled greenhouse (16/8 h light/dark, temperature 22°C/18°C). Total RNA was extracted from various tissues by the phenol–guanidine extraction method. Northern blot analyses were performed as described by Loqué et al. (CITATION). Total RNA (20–30 μ g per lane) was separated by formaldehyde agarose gel electrophoresis, and RNA was transferred to a nylon membrane. DNA fragments carrying the ORFs of AtAMT1;1 or AtAMT1;4 were labeled with 32P as probes for RNA hybridization. Total microsomal membrane fractions were extracted from Arabidopsis roots, shoots and flowers, and fractionated by aqueous two-phase partitioning as described by Yuan et al. (CITATION). Protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford Protein Assay (Bio-Rad, Munich, Germany) and bovine serum albumin served as the standard. A polyclonal antibody was raised against the peptide representing a sequence of the C-terminus of AtAMT1;4 (n-MVRRVGGDNDPNVGV-c) (Biotrend, Köln, Germany). The antiserum from rabbits was further affinity purified using a nitrocellulose membrane for binding of the corresponding peptide. For protein gel blot analysis, proteins (5–10 μg per lane) were electrophoresed on SDS–polyacrylamide gels, transferred to a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane, and blots were developed using an ECL Advance Western Blotting Detection Kit (Amersham, Little Chalfont, UK). Primary antibodies and secondary antibody (peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG, Amersham) were diluted in blocking solution at the following combinations: anti-AtAMT1;4 at 1 : 200 with secondary antibody at 1 : 10,000; anti-AtAHA2 (DeWitt, et al. 1996) at 1 : 20,000, anti-VPPase (Takasu et al. CITATION) at 1 : 2,000, and anti-DET3 (Schumacher et al., CITATION) at 1 : 20,000 with secondary antibody at 1 : 100,000. Rainbow marker (Amersham) was used as molecular weight marker. Protein blots of DET3, a subunit of the V-ATPase, were used as a control for equal loading. Ammonium influx measurements in Arabidopsis roots were conducted after rinsing the roots of hydroponically grown plants in 1 mM CaSO4 solution for 1 min, followed by an incubation during 6 min in nutrient solution containing different concentrations of 15N-labeled NH4+ (95 atom% 15N) as the sole nitrogen source, and a final wash in 1 mM CaSO4 solution. Roots were harvested and stored at –70°C before freeze-drying. Samples were ground and approximately 1.6 mg of powder was used for 15N determination by isotope mass spectrometry (Thermo-Finnigan, Bremen, Germany). Information about T-DNA and transposon mutants for the AtAMT1;4 gene was obtained from the SIGnAL database (Alonso et al. CITATION). The atamt1;4-1 (SAIL_912_E05), atamt1;4-2 (SAIL_761_F02) and atamt1;4-3 (SAIL_557_C08) lines were obtained from the Syngenta SAIL collection (Torrey Mesa Research Institute, San Diego, CA, USA). The atamt1;4-4 (194B10) and atamt1;4-5 (359E07) lines were obtained from the GABI-KAT collection (MPIZ, Köln, Germany) (Rosso et al. CITATION). The atamt1;4-6 (53-2537-1) line was obtained from RIKEN BioResource Center (Tsukuba, Japan). The genotypes of plants were determined by PCR using left or right border-specific primers and gene-specific primers, and the locations of the insertions were verified by sequencing of the PCR products. Mature pollen was harvested from flowers at stage 13. Pollen was germinated on a liquid or solid agar medium containing 0.6% agar, 1.65 mM boric acid, 2 mM CaCl2, 17% sucrose (adjusted to pH 7.0 with 1 M NaOH), and incubated for 12–24 h at room temperature at 100% humidity.
