!~ABS~! Glutathione-S-transferases are essential proteins involved in cellular detoxification. The expression of GSTs has been studied extensively under various environmental stressors including xenobiotics. Here, we have isolated AtGST10, one of the phi classes of AtGSTs on the basis of its interaction with BAK1 in a yeast two-hybrid screen. BAK1 is an LRR-RLK, acting in both brassinosteroid signaling and plant defense responses. We found that AtGSTF10 binds to BAK1 through its N-terminal domain. AtGSTF10 is expressed ubiquitously in plant tissues, and the endogenous transcript level of AtGSTF10 was not induced by plant growth regulators or abiotic stressors, except drought, unlike other GSTs. Overexpression of AtGSTF10 conferred higher tolerance to salt and disturbed redox status of transgenic plants. The down-regulation of AtGSTF10 produced by RNA interference caused reduced tolerance to abiotic stress and an accelerated senescence of transformants, indicating that AtGSTF10 is involved in stress tolerance and the BAK1-mediated spontaneous cell death signaling pathway in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Several papers have reported on downstream interactors of BRI1 that are involved in BR signaling. The homolog of mammalian TGF-beta receptor interacting protein (TRIP1) CITATION, trans-thyretine like protein (TTL) CITATION, and BRI1 kinase inhibitor 1 (BKI1) CITATION are all known to be BRI1 interactors. BRI1 can phosphorylate BKI1 and TTL, causing them to be negative regulators of BR signaling. TRIP1 may be a growth regulator. Other than BRI1 there have been no reports regarding the substrate of BAK1. To search for putative interactors for BAK1, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screen. We did three independent batches of large-scale library transformations to yield yeast cells containing the kinase domain of BAK1 fused to DNA binding domain of the GAL4 yeast transcriptional factor as bait. Among the around 500,000 yeast colonies screened, we obtained 27 putative colonies that grew on histidine-lacking media. After sequencing the DNA fused to the activation domain of GAL4 yeast transcriptional factor in these putative colonies, we found that three of the 27 fragments turned out to be non-translated fusions, two encoding Rubisco small subunit 2b, and another two encoded unknown hypothetical proteins. Thioesterase family protein, chlorophyll a/b binding protein, and PCD/DcoH-like protein were each encoded by one colony. The remaining 17 DNA sequences encoded glutathione-S-transferase. Only yeast containing the GST sequence showed a specific interaction with BAK1 kinase domain and displayed no interaction with several non-relevant baits (CITATION A). The deduced amino acid sequence of GST revealed that it is AtGSTF10, one of the members of plant-specific phi group of GSTs. The gene consists of three exons and encodes with a protein of 215 amino acids (CITATIONB). Among 14 GSTs in phi group AtGSTF10 showed the closest homology with AtGST9 with 80.4% amino acid sequence similarity CITATION (CITATIONC). Generally the phi class of GSTs has a well-conserved glutathione binding site called a G-site, an E-S-R triplet in the N-terminal domain. The C-terminal domain of GST is involved in the binding of an electrophilic co-substrate CITATION. Based on this information we generated several deletion constructs of ATGSTF10 and transformed them into yeast containing the plasmid encoding BAK1 kinase to investigate which region of GST would be required for binding to BAK1. Compared to the interaction of full-length GST and BAK1, we found that only GST(1–59), containing the N-terminal region prior to the start of the G-site, showed a specific interaction with similar strength to intact GST. In contrast, GST(1–139), GST(60–215), and GST(140–215) did not bind with BAK1, implying that the region near the N-terminus comprised of about 60 amino acids might be sufficient for conferring the binding specificity of GST to BAK1 (CITATIOND and E). This result explained why 15 out of 17 yeast clones pulled from two-hybrid screening had DNA sequences that encoded almost full-length GST. Altogether, these results suggest that AtGSTF10, one of the members of phi class of GSTs, is a protein that can interact with BAK1 via its N-terminal domain. We investigated the expression pattern of AtGSTF10 in order to find its possible roles in BR-related plant development. A few previous reports have already shown that AtGSTF10 is not induced by herbicide CITATION. Wagner et al. CITATION performed extensive analysis of the expression of several AtGSTs from Arabidopsis tissues. They found that the expression of AtGSTF10 and its close homolog, AtGSTF9 were not changed by treatment with plant growth regulators including ethylene, methyl jasmonate (MeJA), salicylic acid (SA), and 2,4-D. Hydrogen peroxide did not induce the expression of AtGSTs, either. The transcript levels of AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9 were not changed upon infection of Arabidopsis tissue with Peronospora parasitica isolate NOCO and Peronospora parasitica isolate EMIWA, pathogens able to trigger compatible and incompatible interactions, respectively. From these results, it was concluded that AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9 are constitutively expressed genes, although AtGSTF10 was first known as EDR13, a dehydration-inducible gene CITATION. We noticed that most of the expression data for AtGSTs have been produced by northern blot analysis. As mentioned above, because AtGST10 and AtGST9 showed close sequence homology even at the nucleotide level, northern blot analysis might not be suitable for detecting differences in expression levels between the two genes. Therefore, we designed gene-specific primers for each gene and performed RT-PCR analysis. We first examined the tissue-specific expression pattern of AtGST10 and ATGSF9 by detecting RNA in various tissues of 4-week-old plants. Neither AtGSTF10 nor AtGSTF9 displayed tissue-specific expression, except in cauline leaves where the expression level of AtGSTF10 was decreased (CITATION A). We next investigated the expression of these two genes in response to various plant growth regulators including brassinolide (BL), the most active brassinosteroid. In our experimental conditions, the expression levels of AtGSTF9 and AtGSTF10 were not changed by any growth regulators provided in the medium (CITATIONB). To learn whether these genes’ expression would be affected by environmental stress, we isolated RNA from seedlings subjected to several abiotic stresses. Exposing 10-day-old seedlings to cold treatment at 4°C for 24h or to UV radiation for 4h induced the expression of AtGSTF9, while the expression level of AtGSTF10 was not affected under the same conditions. In contrast, AtGSTF10 expression was increased by the stress of drought (CITATIONC). These results suggest that regardless of the close sequence homologies between AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9, the expressions of both genes may be differentially regulated in various conditions, and that the endogenous level of AtGSTF10 expression remains relatively stable. To further investigate the physiological functions of AtGSTF10, we generated transgenic plants using two means. First, we introduced the entire open reading frame of AtGSTF10 driven by the 35S CaMV constitutive promoter into wild type Arabidopsis for overexpression analysis. Secondly, because we did not notice any discernible phenotypic changes from the single knock out T-DNA insertional mutant of AtGSTF10 (SALK_113838), we reasoned that it was possible that AtGSTF9 could perform overlapping physiological roles with AtGSTF10 due to high sequence homology. Thus, we produced RNA interference construct covering the highest region of homology between AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9 in order to down-regulate both genes. Lines homozygous for AtGSTF10 overexpression were chosen in the T3 generation by segregation analysis using a selective antibiotic marker. We examined the level of transgene overexpression by RT-PCR analysis using the RNA isolated from each line of transformants and found that the degree of transgene expression could be sorted into three groups: strongly overexpressed, moderately expressed, and co-suppressed (CITATION A, upper panel). The plants phenotypes were similar to wild type regardless of the level of expression (CITATIONA, lower panel). In contrast, transgenic plants containing the AtGSTF10 RNA interference construct displayed a compact rosette shape as in weak bri1 or bak1 mutants (CITATIONB). The growth of these lines was inhibited by more than 30% compared to wild type over the growing periods (CITATIONC). Furthermore, the color of their rosette leaves was purplish, indicating that antocyanine accumulates more in these lines than in the untransformed wild type. Since overexpression of AtGSTF10 did not lead to phenotypic changes and since AtGSTs have been known to be involved in stress tolerance, we attempted to monitor their responsiveness to various environmental stress conditions. We grew the wild type seeds in media containing a high concentration of sodium chloride, in which seed germination and seedling growth is inhibited. Compared to the wild type, transgenic plants overexpressing AtGSTF10 grew well in NaCl-containing media. In contrast, the number of surviving plants among the RNAi lines decreased greatly under the same conditions (CITATIOND). Transgenic plants overexpressing AtGSTF10 also showed a higher survival rate when grown in media containing N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC). NAC is a pharmacological reagent that scavenges free radicals CITATION. Treatment with a high dosage of NAC reduced plant growth. We found that the down-regulation of AtGSTF10 resulted in a great reduction in the survival rate in the NAC-containing environment. Growth inhibition in the AtGSTF10 RNAi lines in the presence of NAC was much higher than that of wild type (CITATIONE). Taken together, these results suggest that modulation of AtGSTF10 levels should affect developmental aspects as well as stress tolerance in plants. As AtGSTF10 was originally isolated as a BAK1 interactor, we wanted to pursue the nature of its relationship in BR signaling. However, transgenic plants overexpressing AtGSTF10 or AtGSTF10 RNAi showed a growth pattern similar to wild type, based on the root and hypocotyls elongation in the presence of BL or brassinazole, the biosynthetic inhibitor. This result indicated that AtGSTF10 might not be directly involved in BR signaling (data not shown). To further confirm this finding, we produced AtGSTF10 transgenic plants having a bak1 mutant background. While we did not observe any noticeable phenotypic changes in bak1 plants overexpressing AtGSTF10, we found that these plants showed an early senescence phenotype (CITATION ). Recently BAK1 was reported to play a role in BR-independent spontaneous cell death via the production of reactive oxygen species CITATION. Therefore, AtGSTF10 might be a functional effector of premature cell death via BAK1-mediated signaling in plants.
!~MM~! Yeast two-hybrid assay. We amplified the cDNA encoding kinase domain of BAK1 as bait, cloned it into the pAS2 vector and used the resulting plasmid to transform Y190 yeast cells. Bait yeast were transformed again with a cDNA library CITATION cloned in the pACT2 vector. We used the Matchmaker system from BD Biosciences Clontech (Palo Alto, CA) for yeast transformation and selection of putative clones. To determine the specificity of two targeted proteins, Y190 yeast cells containing genes encoding putative candidates in pACT2 were mated with Y187 yeast cells containing genes encoding non-relevant proteins in pAS2. To determine the binding domain of AtGSTF10 to BAK1, we amplified partial fragments encoding AtGSTF10 by PCR and cloned them into the EcoRI and NcoI sites of pACT2. The resultant deletion plasmids were co-transformed with pAS2-BAK1 into Y190. Yeast cells confirmed to harbor both clones were grown on synthetic medium lacking histidine but containing 30mM 3-aminotriazole (3-AT) and re-streaked to observe blue-colored colonies on 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-β-d-galactoside-containing medium. Expression analysis of AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9. Gene-specific primers for AtGSTF10 and AtGSTF9 for RT-PCR analysis were designed as following: GST10F (5′ aaaatcccagtcctcgtcgacgga 3′), GST10R (5′ aagtggtgcaaagacaatgttgag 3′), GST9F (5′ actgttcctgctgttgttgacggt 3′), and GST9R (5′ gactgatgcgaacattatgtgaag 3′). Total RNA was isolated from various tissues grown for four weeks or seedlings grown for 10 days on 1/2 MS media. RNA was treated with RNase-free RQ1 DNases (Promega) priot to first strand cDNA synthesis using the Superscript|||-MMLV reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo d(T15) as a primer. The same aliquot used for first strand cDNA synthesis was used as a template in the second step polymerase chain reaction for 26 cycles with gene-specific primers. Plasmids construction. cDNA encoding full-length AtGSTF10 (At2g30870) was PCR-amplified using Turbo-DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and cloned into between the SacI and KpnI sites of pCHF1. To make the RNA interference construct, a 250bp-fragment containing the N-terminal domain of AtGSTF10 was amplified and cloned into the pHannibal vector using the BamHI/ClaI and XhoI/KpnI pairs to generate inverted repeat. The resultant pHannibal-GSTRNAi plasmid was digested with NotI to clone it into pART27 and then digested with BamHI and XhoI to clone it into the pCHF1 binary vector. Plant growth and transformation. Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col-0) was used as wild type. Transgenic plants were made by floral dipping into suspensions of Agrobacterium tumerfecience (GV3101) containing the appropriate plasmid constructs. Seeds were sterilized with 75% ethanol containing 0.05% Tween-20 after which they were washed twice with 95% ethanol, and germinated in 1/2 MS (Duchefa) and 0.8% phytoagar supplemented with appropriate antibiotics. To observe the phenotypes of transgenic plants in the T3 generation, seeds were directly planted onto Sunshine #5, top-layered with fine granules of vermiculite. All plants were grown at 22°C under long light conditions (16h L/8h D). Stress treatment. Ten-day-old seedlings grown on 1/2 MS were used for stress treatment in all cases. For cold, seedlings were transferred to 4°C-growth chamber and incubated for 24h under the same light condition as above. For UV treatment, seedlings were exposed to UV-light with 20J/s for 4h. For drought conditions, plates containing seedlings were opened in a laminar flow chamber set with 4Kgf/cm2 of blower speed for the indicated times.
