!~ABS~! Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are essential sensor-transducers of calcium signaling pathways in plants. Functional characterization of CDPKs is of great interest because they play important roles during growth, development, and in response to a wide range of environmental stimuli. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 34 CDPKs, but very few substrates of these enzymes have been identified. In this study, we exploited the unique characteristics of CDPKs to develop an efficient approach for the discovery of CDPK-interacting proteins. High-throughput, semi-automated yeast two-hybrid interaction screens with two different cDNA libraries each containing 18 million prey clones were performed using catalytically impaired and constitutively active AtCPK4 and AtCPK11 variants as baits. The use of the constitutively active versions of the CPK baits improved the recovery of positive interacting proteins relative to the wild type kinase. Titration of interaction strength by growth under increasing concentrations of 3-aminotriazole (3-AT), a histidine analog and competitive inhibitor of the His3 gene product, confirmed these results. Possible mechanisms for this observed improvement are discussed. The reproducibility of this approach was assessed by the overlap of several interacting proteins of AtCPK4 and AtCPK11 and the recovery of several putative substrates and indicated that yeast two-hybrid screens using constitutively active and/or catalytically impaired forms of CDPK provides a useful tool to identify potential substrates of the CDPK family and potentially the entire protein kinase superfamily.
!~RES~! In previous reports, truncated versions of CDPKs were used to identify potential substrates using the Y2H system (Patharkar and Cushman CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION). Therefore, we decided to test whether the use of catalytically impaired and/or constitutively active mutants would improve the recovery of CDPK substrates. Five different AtCPK4 bait constructs were created to isolate putative interacting proteins. To make these constructs, three residues were substituted to alanine (A) according to two studies that reported critical amino acid residues that resulted in functionally impaired protein kinases. Rational scanning mutagenesis identified functional regions that were involved in catalysis and substrate interactions in TPK1, a cAMP-dependent protein kinase of yeast (Gibbs and Zoller CITATION). The substitution of Aspartic acid (D) 280 to A resulted in inviable yeast cells, whereas the D210A mutation allowed the Kcat to decrease without altering Km for Mg2+-ATP. In addition, site-directed mutation of phenylalanine (F) 430 to A, which disrupted the CDPK autoinhibitory or junction domain, resulted in constitutively active AtCPK1 (Arabidopsis calcium-dependent protein kinase 1) (Vitart et al. CITATION). Amino acid sequences of full-length AtCPK1 and the kinase domain of TPK1 were aligned with that of full-length AtCPK4 and AtCPK11 to identify conserved and functionally critical residues (Fig. 1). AtCPK4 D149 and D170 residues (D150 and D171 in AtCPK11) were highly conserved in the kinase domain among all three proteins. AtCPK4 F305 (F306 in AtCPK11) was also conserved in the autoinhibitory domain (residues 286–319 in AtCPK4) among AtCPK1, AtCPK4, and AtCPK11. Therefore, for the initial screens for AtCPK4 interactors, five mutations were created: D149A, D170A, F305A, D149A/F305A and D170A/F305A. [[FIGURE]]  We next performed in vitro kinase assays to assess the effect of the different mutations on the activity of AtCPK4. Wild type AtCPK4 and the five mutant versions were expressed in E. coli as 6×His-tagged fusion proteins and their kinase activity tested using the serine-rich protein (SRP) detected in the Y2H screens as a substrate (Fig. 2). Wild type AtCPK4 strongly phosphorylated SRP in vitro in a Ca2+-dependent manner. These results indicated that the recombinant AtCPK4 was calcium-dependent for maximal activity. In contrast, none of the catalytically impaired versions of AtCPK4 (D149A and D170A) and their combinations with constitutively active versions of the protein kinase (D149A/F305A and D170A/F305A) could phosphorylate SRP in vitro. However, constitutively active AtCPK4 (F305A) was able to phosphorylate the substrate in the absence of Ca2+, although this activity was enhanced slightly in the presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 2). These results indicate that the effects of the mutations created in AtCPK4 were as expected and, therefore, similar mutants can be obtained for other CDPKs, such as has been reported for AtCPK11 (Rodriguez Milla et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  For all Y2H screens, we used PJ69-4A MATa strain for the propagation of DNA-binding domain fusion (bait) constructs and PJ69-4α MATα strain for propagation of activation domain fusion (prey) constructs. PJ69-4A features three different reporter constructs each driven by different Gal4-responsive promoters. This variety of reporters eliminates many of the false positives commonly obtained in Y2H screenings (James et al. CITATION). This assay system allows for semi-automated screening using computerized sample tracking to perform large-scale transformation and mating reactions quickly in 96-well plates through all steps. Furthermore, this screening approach employs independent mating, which can locate an interaction between one bait and one prey in each well compared with large-scale mating systems, which use pooled bait and prey clones (Buckholz et al. CITATION). The overall strategy of the screening process is outlined in Fig. 3. [[FIGURE]]  All bait constructs were tested in yeast strains for their ability to auto-activate the histidine (HIS3) nutritional reporter. None of the yeast strains containing bait constructs could activate the HIS3 reporter to any degree on the histidine drop-out medium supplemented with 1 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT), a competitive inhibitor for the biosynthesis of histidine (Fig. 4a). Hence, this medium was used for subsequent screens. Approximately 18 million prey clones from each of two different libraries were tested for each of the six AtCPK4 bait constructs (wild type and five mutants) as described in detail in the Materials and methods section. A total of 14 redundant prey fusion proteins were recovered in the twelve independent screens (ranging from 2 to 18 clones) (Table 1), whereas the remaining 16 preys corresponded to ‘single hits’ (Table 2). The use of constitutively active AtCPK4 baits (F305A) clearly improved the efficiency of recovering positive interactors relative to the wild type protein kinase or the catalytically impaired versions (D149A and D170A) as shown in Table 1. However, neither the D149A/F305A combination nor the D170A/F305A combination resulted in a synergistic improvement in the recovery of positive interactors (Table 1). Some clones were specific to either the seedling or stress cDNA library. Wild type AtCPK4 bait detected only two prey proteins, corresponding to a heat shock protein and a ribosomal protein. These proteins represent possible non-specific interactions, as they are commonly reported in different protein interaction assay screens as artifacts (Henger CITATION). The rich variation in the insert size and the percentage of full-length clones (67%) indicated the high quality of the cDNA libraries used (see also supplementary Figures S3–S6). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] To obtain more insight into the relative strengths of the interactions detected in our initial Y2H screening, we performed a titration with 3-AT, a competitive inhibitor of the HIS3 protein. We also measured the β-galactosidase activity of the selected interactions. As a negative control, the prey clones were transformed in combination with the empty pBUTE bait vector to check that they did not autoactivate reporter gene expression. The five most redundant prey clones recovered in the Y2H screens (e.g., AtDi19, heat shock protein 1, serine-rich protein, zinc finger protein, and AtToc33) were selected for further characterization. First, interactions were confirmed by retransforming yeast with the empty pBUTE plasmid or the six AtCPK4 baits and the corresponding prey isolated from yeast. None of the yeast strains expressing preys was able to grow when mated with a yeast strain expressing the empty bait vector (Fig. 4a). This indicated that AtCPK4 was responsible for the interaction. For AtDi19, serine-rich protein, and zinc finger protein, interaction with AtCPK4-F305A was significantly stronger than the interaction with wild type AtCPK4, which was almost undetectable in the presence of 1 mM 3-AT. The interaction of AtDi19 with AtCPK4-F305A was the strongest, as yeast cells were able to grow on up to 10 mM 3-AT and also in media lacking Leu, Ura, His and Ade. Two proteins, heat shock protein 1 and AtToc33, interacted not only with wild type AtCPK4, but also with the other mutated bait constructs. The significance of these interactions is discussed below. In general, both adenine drop-out and β-galactosidase assays reflected reliably the results obtained with selection on His drop-out media including various concentrations of 3-AT. Finally, in other Y2H screening efforts, out-of-frame interactors were demonstrated to interact with the bait when recloned as in-frame (Sourdive et al. CITATION) or as a result of apparent frame-shifted translation products (Fromont-Racine et al. CITATION; Giot et al. CITATION; Albers et al. CITATION). Therefore, we studied the interactions of two highly redundant out-of-frame clones, one encoding a proton translocating pyrophosphatase (Ppase) and the other encoding a protein responsive to drought (RD2). Both clones clearly interacted with all AtCPK4 baits (Fig. 4b), but when recloned in-frame, the resulting protein fusions failed to retain interaction with any bait proteins. This indicates that the out-of-frame clones might encode non-native, frame-shifted proteins that interact non-specifically with any bait. Taken together, these results indicate that interaction of a protein with wild type AtCPK4 and the other baits is likely to be the result of non-specific interactions. Kinase-substrate interactions are expected to be rather transient and probably not detected well using the Y2H system, which requires relatively strong interactions to be detected with Kd in the 20 nM to 1 mM range (Estojak et al. CITATION), unless a modified or catalytically impaired protein kinase is employed as bait. Because AtCPK4 and AtCPK11 are 95% identical at the amino acid level, they might exhibit similarities in their substrate specificity. Therefore, we decided to use our Y2H approach to screen for AtCPK11 interactors. In this case, only the F306A, D150A/F306A and D171A/F306A mutants were used as baits, as wild type AtCPK4 and the D149A and D170A mutants did not improve interaction with substrates. As we observed for the AtCPK4 baits, none of the three AtCPK11 baits were able to auto-induce the His3 reporter gene (data not shown). Two independent screens were performed with yeast strains expressing each bait, with each screen using yeast expressing a different cDNA library (see Material and methods) for a total of six independent screens. A total of 13 redundant prey fusion proteins were recovered (ranging from 2 to 7 clones) (Table 3), whereas the remaining 11 preys corresponded to ‘single hits’ (Table 4). In contrast to the results obtained with the three AtCPK4 baits containing the constitutively active mutation, in the AtCPK11 screens we did not observe any significant difference in the number of clones detected by the three baits. Whereas the most redundant proteins were detected by two or three baits (with the exception of a PB1 domain-containing protein), the remaining interacting proteins were detected only once. Interestingly, several proteins identified in the AtCPK4 screens were also detected in the AtCPK11 screens. These results indicate that both kinases, which share 95% amino acid identity, would appear to have overlapping sets of substrates.[[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] To validate the interactions of AtCPK11 with the proteins detected in the high throughput Y2H screens, we decided to test the growth of yeast strains expressing the 13 redundant proteins in drop out media lacking Ura and Leu, supplemented with 1 mM 3-AT (Fig. 5). Plasmids were isolated from yeast, transformed into E. coli and then transformed back to yeast PJ69-4A. A yeast strain expressing wild type AtCPK11 was also included to compare the interactions obtained with those of yeast strains expressing the mutant baits. Yeast strains expressing five prey proteins, including a histone variant (AtH2A.Z), a drought-induced protein (AtDi19), an unknown protein 3, a zinc finger protein, and a ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase, showed a very similar pattern: a clear interaction with strains expressing the three mutant baits and no or very weak interaction with strains expressing wild type AtCPK11. In addition, strains expressing four proteins (PB1 domain-containing protein, geranylgeranyl reductase, actin depolymerizing factor 3, and acyl carrier protein) did not interact with strains expressing wild type AtCPK11, but their interaction with the three baits was more variable, although in all cases interaction was observed with the AtCPK11-F306A constitutively active mutant. For two of the preys, heat shock proteins 1 and 2, interaction strength was not improved above that observed for wild type AtCPK11, and for two more preys, AtToc33 and chloroplast thylakoid formation 1 protein, interaction with wild type AtCPK11 was evident, although it was not as strong as with the three AtCPK11 mutant baits. Similar results were obtained for strains expressing heat shock protein 1 and AtToc33 in their interaction with strains expressing AtCPK4 wild type and mutants (Fig. 4a). In the case of chloroplast thylakoid formation 1 protein, yeast cells grew in the presence of the empty pBUTE plasmid indicating that this protein could auto-activate transcription of the His3 reporter gene (Fig. 5). The results of the high throughput screens (Tables 3, 4) and the growth of the yeast cells in the second screening under the same conditions (Fig. 5) were generally consistent. In some cases, the observed differences may be due to the fact that in the second screening only the clone containing the longest open reading frame was used as a prey and shorter fragments of the same protein might show a different interaction with each of the AtCPK11 baits (see supplementary Figs. S3–S6). Overall, these results confirm the data obtained in the AtCPK4 screens and suggest that constitutively active CDPKs, alone or in combination with catalytically impaired variants of the kinase can improve the recovery of putative substrates. [[FIGURE]]  In order to functionally verify the validity of the interactors identified in the AtCPK4/11 Y2H screens, we conducted in vitro phosphorylation assays with the highly redundant interactors and were able to verify that 46% of the putative interactors served as substrates for either AtCPK4 or 11 (see supplementary Figs. S1 and S2) with AtDi19 serving as substrate for both protein kinases. Although no canonical CPK binding or interaction motifs could be discerned from among the different prey proteins, we mapped the interaction region of each prey protein relative to each full-length open reading frame so that such domains might be mapped in the future. These data are summarized in supplementary Figs. S3–S6. Although correlation between mRNA and protein abundance is not well correlated generally in flowering plant species (Watson et al. CITATION; Gion et al. CITATION; Liu et al. CITATION; Faurobert et al. CITATION), it is possible that the CPKs could interact potentially with the preys if their mRNA expression patterns overlap. Therefore, we tested this hypothesis by comparing the mRNA expression of AtCPK4 and 11 with the redundant prey clones using the GENEVESTIGATOR reference expression database and meta-analysis system (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). We confirmed that the mRNA expression patterns of both AtCPK4 and 11 overlapped in one or more tissues and developmental stages for all of the prey genes (Fig. 6) indicating that the CPKs and their candidate prey proteins have the potential to interact with one another. However, no improvement in the correlation of such mRNA profiles among validated substrates versus apparent non-substrates was apparent (Fig. 6 and supplementary Figs. 1 and 2). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! AtCPK4 and AtCPK11 mutants were created using the QuickChange™ site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) following manufacturer’s instructions. The primers used (only the forward primer is shown) were: AtCPK4-D149A, 5′-GGTGTTATGCATAGAGCTCTTAAGCCTGAG-3′; AtCPK4-D170A, 5′-GCTTAAAGCTACAGCTTTTGGTTTGTCTG-3′; AtCPK4-F305A, 5′-TCGCGACTTAAGCAGGCCTCGCAAATGAAT-3′; AtCPK11-D150A, 5′-GGTGTTATGCATAGAGCTCTCAAACCTGAG-3′; AtCPK11-D171A, 5′-GCTTAAGGCTACCGCTTTTGGTTTGTCTG-3′; AtCPK11-F306A, 5′-TCTCGTCTAAAGCAGGCTTCTCAAATGAAT-3′. PCR amplification products of these genes were subcloned by recombinational cloning (Oldenburg et al. CITATION) into the pBUTE Y2H bait vector to make a GAL4BD fusion protein using the following primers: AtCPK4 Forward, 5′ CAAAGACAGTTGACTGTATCGCCGGAATTCatggagaaaccaaaccctagaagaccctca, AtCPK4 Reverse 5′ TCAGTATCTACGATTCATAGATCTCTGCAGttactttggtgaatcatcagatttagcagt, AtCPK11 Forward, 5′-CAAAGACAGTTGACTGTATCGCCGGAATTCgagacgaagccaaaccctagacgtccttca-3′, AtCPK11 Reverse, 5′-TCAGTATCTACGATTCATAGATCTCTGCAGtcagtcatcagatttttcaccatcaactcc-3′. Uppercase nucleotides indicate vector target sequence; lowercase nucleotides indicate bait inserts. The pBUTE vector was constructed by swapping a kanamycin-resistance marker gene for ampicillin-resistance gene of pBDU-C1 (James et al. CITATION). Bait plasmids were sequenced to be sure the inserts were in-frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain and transformed into PJ69-4A [MATa trp1-901 leu 2-3, 112 ura3-52 his 3-200 gal4∆ gal80∆ LYS2::GAL1-HIS3 GAL2-ADE2 met2::GAL7-lacZ] (James et al. CITATION). Autoactivation was assayed by β-galactosidase assay. Two Arabidopsis cDNA libraries were prepared from total RNA. For the seedling library, total RNA was isolated from 3-day-old etiolated Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) seedlings. Seeds were soaked in sterile water for 20 min, surface-sterilized with 95% ethanol for 5 min and 50% commercial bleach for 5 min, washed five times with sterile water, and then incubated at 4°C for 4 days to synchronize germination. Plants were grown in plates containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) supplemented with 2% sucrose, pH 5.8 at 22°C under 120 μE m−2 s−1 light for a 16 h photoperiod. For the stress library, seedlings were grown as described above, but then, 40–50 seedlings were removed from at least three different agar plates and held under the light at 22°C using the conditions described below. Total RNA was prepared and pooled from 14-day-old plants stressed for 30, 60, 90, and 120 min with the following treatments: dehydration (plants were removed from the agar and placed in a dry, sterile, Petri dish at 60% relative humidity), cold (4°C), heat (42°C), darkness, high light (300 μE M−2 s−1), and wounding (leaf piercing with needle). For the remaining treatments, plants were removed from the agar and bathed in liquid MS in a sterile Petri dish containing the following additives: salinity (150 mM NaCl), osmotic (440 mM mannitol), 100 μM abscisic acid (ABA), 100 μM benzylaminopurine (BAP), 100 μM brassinolide (BR), 100 μM gibberellic acid (GA), 100 μM indole acetic acid (IAA), 100 μM methyl jasmonate (MeJA), 100 μM Salicylic acid (SA), 100 μM 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-d), 10 μM N,N′-dimethyl-4,4′-bipyridinium dichloride (Paraquat), and 20 mM hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). All chemicals were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich, Inc. (St Louis, MO, USA). Both prey libraries were constructed in pGADT7-Rec using a Matchmaker™ GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 kit (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA) and the library was then introduced into PJ69-4α using the Lithium Acetate yeast transformation method [BD Yeast Protocols Handbook (PT3024-1), BD Biosciences]. Transformed yeast libraries were harvested and arrayed in 96-well format in 15% glycerol-leucine drop-out media. Transformations were replicated for each library (seedling and stress) to yield a library containing >18 million original transformants. High throughput Y2H screens were performed in the University of Wisconsin Molecular Interaction Facility according to their methods (http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/MIF/). Briefly, semi-automated screens were performed based on methods developed at GlaxoWellcome (Buckholz et al. CITATION), wherein bait and prey clones were systematically mated and yeast expressing interactors were selected on histidine dropout media plus 1 mM 3-aminotriazole (3AT; media recipes at http://www.umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/units/biochem/gietz/media.html). Positives were detected by assaying growth (at 620 nm) and confirmed by assaying for a second yeast reporter via β-galactosidase assays. To validate observed interactions, prey plasmids were isolated, analyzed by restriction digest and representative plasmids were transformed into PJ69-4α. Yeast with preys was mated one-on-one in parallel against the yeast expressing the target baits and the empty bait vector (baits were in yeast mating type A). Following selection for interaction in histidine dropout plus 1 mM 3AT, positives were confirmed by assaying β-galactosidase activity using chlorophenolred-β-d-galactopyranoside (CPRG) as a substrate. DNA samples corresponding to bait-specific positive interacting prey were hit-picked for DNA sequencing. A second screening of the most redundant clones was then performed to compare the interactions detected using AtCPK11 mutants to AtCPK11 wild type baits. cDNA fragments containing the open reading frame (ORF) of AtCPK11 (wild type and the three site-directed mutant versions) were amplified by PCR using PfuUltra Hotstart DNA Polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and the primers AtCPK11-BamHI-F: 5′-CGCGGATCC ATGGAGACGAAGCCAAACCCTAGA-3′ and AtCPK11-SalI-R: 5′-ACGCGTCGAC TCAGTCATCAGATTTTTCACCATC-3′ (restriction sites are indicated with underlined, whereas start and stop codons are indicated with bold font). The fragments were inserted into the BamHI and SalI sites of the pBUTE vector and the constructs verified by restriction digestion and sequencing. Yeast transformation was carried out using the Lithium Acetate method [BC Yeast Protocols Handbook (PT3024-1), BD Biosciences]. The plasmid DNAs isolated from yeast clones that tested positive for interaction with the baits constructs were sequenced using the dideoxy chain-termination method on an Applied Biosystems 3730 automated DNA sequencing system using the Prism™ Ready Reaction Dyedeoxy™ Terminator Cycle Sequencing kit (Applied Biosystems Division, Perkin-Elmer, Foster City, CA, USA). DNA sequence data were analyzed using the MacVector®/AssemblyLIGN™ sequence analysis programs (MacVector, Inc., Cary, NC, USA). Annotation of the sequences was carried out by BLASTX searches against the non-redundant GenBank database. For validation of AtCPK4 interactors, the plasmids expressing the five most redundant prey clones from the Y2H screens were transformed back into PJ69-4A as described above and the resulting yeast strains were mated with strains containing each of the six AtCPK4 wild type, site-directed bait plasmids or pBUTE alone. A positive bait-prey pair control, containing EH-pGADT7 and EPSIN-pBUTE, was also included. Mated zygotes were grown on SD-agar medium that lacked leucine and uracil (SD-Leu/Ura) for the selection for both the library prey and bait plasmids. One yeast colony was picked and cultured in liquid SD-Leu/-Ura medium. After 2 days, 2 μl of each yeast culture solution was spotted onto SD-agar media, which lacked leucine and uracil (-Leu/Ura), leucine, uracil, and histidine supplemented with or without 1–10 mM 3-AT (-Leu/Ura/His +3AT; this selects for both plasmids and tests interaction strength arising from the action of the expressed fusion proteins) or lacking leucine, uracil, histidine and adenine (-Leu/Ura/His/Ade; this selects for both plasmids and the interaction of the respective bait or prey fusion proteins) and grown for 3 days at 30°C. Yeast in vivo β-galactoidase assays (β-gal) were carried out on drop-out medium that lacked leucine and uracil, but included 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-galactoside (X-gal) as a substrate. For AtCPK11, the 13 redundant clones from the Y2H screens were transformed back into PJ69-4A and the transformed yeast strains were mated with strains of opposite mating type containing each of the three AtCPK11 mutant baits, AtCPK11 wild type, or pBUTE alone. Six AtCPK4 cDNA fragments encoding wild type and mutants forms of the kinase were amplified by PCR with the following primers: forward, 5′-AAGGGATCCATGGAGAAACCAAACCCTAGAAG-3′ and reverse, 5′-CTTCTCGAGTTACTTTGGTGAATCATCAGATTT-3′. Each PCR product was cloned between the BamHI and XhoI sites of the pET-30a expression vector (Novagen, Inc., Madison, WI, USA). The open reading frame (ORF) of a cDNA clone encoding a serine-rich protein (At5g21940) was amplified with the primers: forward, 5′-AAGGAATTCATGAAAATCCACCCATTACCCAGA-3′ and reverse, 5′-CTTCTCGAGTTACTGTACAAGCACTATCAAATC-3′. This cDNA along with other cDNA clones encoding putative substrate proteins (see supplementary Figure S1 and S2) were amplified and cloned between the EcoRI and XhoI sites of the pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ, USA) to generate GST fusion proteins or pET43a vectors (Novagen, Inc., Madison, WI, USA) to generate NusA–His fusions (in the case of proton translocating pyrophosphatase (Ppase; At4g32530), see supplementary Figure S1). E. coli BL21(DE3) cells (Novagen, Inc.) were transformed with the above vectors. Transformed cells were grown in 2× YT medium with appropriate antibiotics until an O.D. 600 of 0.6–0.8 was reached. Protein expression was then induced by adding IPTG to a final concentration of 1 mM. Cells were grown for 2–3 h, harvested by centrifugation at 4°C and stored at −80°C until use. Cells were disrupted by sonication. Fusion proteins were purified from crude sonicate by glutathione agarose (Sigma-Aldrich, Inc.) or nickel resin (Novagen, Inc.) affinity chromatography according to manufacturers’ instructions. Approximately 50 ng of 6×His-AtCPK4 and 1 μg of GST-prey fusion proteins were incubated in a 20 μl reaction containing 20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, and 1.1 mM CaCl2 (in control reactions, CaCl2 was omitted), 50 μM ATP and 0.6 μCi of [γ32P] ATP at 37°C for 10 min. Reactions were stopped by adding 20 μl of 2× SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Samples were boiled for 5 min and proteins were separated by 10% SDS-PAGE gels. Then, proteins were separated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE gels (Laemmli CITATION) and visualized by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining and autoradiography. Gene expression was analyzed in silico using the publicly available A. thaliana microarray data from total 3,110 chips of 22 k high quality arrays and the Meta Analyzer tool of the GENEVESTIGATOR software package (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch). Public expression analysis microarray data were analyzed using the GENEVESTIGATOR reference expression database and meta-analysis system. Heat map presented in Fig. 6 was generated for interacting groups of AtCPK4 and AtCPK11, respectively. To visualize gene expression levels and render visible slight changes in signal intensity, a blue—white color scheme was chosen by the software developers (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). Absolute values are displayed either as MAS5-normalized signal values, or as MAS5 normalized values relative to the expression potential of each gene. The darkest color (dark blue) corresponds to the expression potential (EP) value of each gene, which was defined as the average of the top 1% signal values of a probe set across all arrays in the database. Clustering analysis was carried out using Pearson correlation. See Zimmermann et al. (CITATION) for definitions of various growth stages.
