!~ABS~! Two similar Arabidopsis dynamin-related proteins, DRP3A and DRP3B, are thought to be key factors in both mitochondrial and peroxisomal fission. However, the functional and genetic relationships between DRP3A and DRP3B have not been fully investigated. In a yeast two-hybrid assay, DRP3A and DRP3B interacted with themselves and with each other. DRP3A and DRP3B localized to mitochondria and peroxisomes, and co-localized with each other in leaf epidermal cells. In two T-DNA insertion mutants, drp3a and drp3b, the mitochondria are a little longer and fewer in number than those in the wild-type cells. In the double mutant, drp3a/drp3b, mitochondria are connected to each other, resulting in massive elongation. Overexpression of either DRP3A or DRP3B in drp3a/drp3b restored the particle shape of mitochondria, suggesting that DRP3A and DRP3B are functionally redundant in mitochondrial fission. In the case of peroxisomal fission, DRP3A and DRP3B appear to have different functions: peroxisomes in drp3a were larger and fewer in number than those in the wild type, whereas peroxisomes in drp3b were as large and as numerous as those in the wild type, and peroxisomes in drp3a/drp3b were as large and as numerous as those in drp3a. Although overexpression of DRP3A in drp3a/drp3b restored the shape and number of peroxisomes, overexpression of DRP3B did not restore the phenotypes, and often caused elongation instead. These results suggest that DRP3B and DRP3A have redundant molecular functions in mitochondrial fission, whereas DRP3B has a minor role in peroxisomal fission that is distinct from that of DRP3A.
!~RES~! To examine whether DRP3A and DRP3B interact with each other, we conducted yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 1b–e). In this experiment, interactions between DRP3A-DRP3A and between DRP3B-DRP3B were detected. These are consistent with a previous report (CITATION). Moreover, an interaction between DRP3A and DRP3B was also detected. These results indicate that DRP3A and DRP3B form homo-oligomers and hetero-oligomers. We also investigated the interactions between DRP3A, DRP3B and another dynamin-related protein, DRP1A. DRP1A has a domain organization that is different from DRP3A and DRP3B (Figure 1a), and is involved in cytokinesis and polarized cell growth (CITATION). Although DRP1A was found to interact with itself, no interaction with DRP3A or DRP3B was detected (Figure 1b–e). To examine the expression and localization of DRP3A and DRP3B in leaf epidermal cells, we prepared two reporter genes: GFP fused to the C terminus of DRP3A (DRP3A:GFP) and monomeric Kusabira Orange (mKO) fused to the C terminus of DRP3B (DRP3B:mKO). DRP3A:GFP was expressed under the control of a 3-kb sequence immediately upstream of DRP3A, and DRP3B:mKO was expressed under the control of a 3-kb sequence immediately upstream of DRP3B. In our confocal laser scanning microscopic (CLSM) images of leaf epidermal cells, both the DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:mKO signals were dot-like (Figure 2a). In almost all (97.8 ± 1.3%, mean ± SD) of the dot-like signals of Figure 2a (based on 10 CLSM images of a 48 × 48 μm epidermal cell area), the DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:mKO signals overlapped. Because the non-overlapping signals were faint, they might be the result of noise, or one of the color signals might be too faint to detect. These results indicate that DRP3A and DRP3B are expressed together in the same cells (at least in the epidermal cells) of Arabidopsis, and co-localize with each other. [[FIGURE]] To examine how DRP3A and DRP3B, when expressed under the control of their own promoters, are localized to mitochondria and peroxisomes in Arabidopsis, we introduced DNA fragments containing DRP3A:GFP or DRP3B:GFP with their own promoters into drp3a or drp3b-1 T-DNA insertion mutants (described below), respectively. The abundances of fusion gene transcripts in each transgenic line were checked by RT-PCR (Figure S1). The CLSM observations of leaf epidermal cells showed that DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:GFP signals localized to the tips and constriction sites of mitochondria, which seem to be the completed fission sites and future fission sites, respectively (Figure 2b, c, arrowheads and arrows). DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:GFP signals were also localized to the tips and constriction sites of peroxisomes in leaf epidermal cells (Figure 2d, e, arrowheads and arrows). These results suggest that DRP3B also localizes to peroxisomes, and that DRP3A and DRP3B localize to the tips and constriction sites of mitochondria and peroxisomes in leaf epidermal cells. Most mitochondria (81.1 ± 2.6%) had DRP3A:GFP signals (calculated from seven images of epidermal cells containing 581 mitochondria, mean ± SD), whereas only 24.9 ± 14.8% of peroxisomes had DRP3A:GFP signals (calculated from 16 images of epidermal cells containing 190 peroxisomes, mean ± SD). These results suggest that DRP3A is much more likely to be associated with mitochondria than with peroxisomes in leaf epidermal cells. Although DRP3A and DRP3B were shown to localize to the tips and constriction sites of mitochondria in our present study (Figure 2b, c), and also in previous studies (CITATION; CITATION), it is unknown whether these mitochondrial spots with DRP3A and DRP3B are the actual fission sites. To address this, we took serial CLSM images to observe the dynamic interactions of DRP3A:GFP or DRP3B:GFP expressed under their own promoters during the course of mitochondrial fission in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells. Prior to mitochondrial fission, the signals of DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:GFP seemed to appear and localize to the surface of future fission sites of mitochondria (Figure 3: arrows in a, 0 sec; arrows in b, 4 sec). As the mitochondrial fission progressed, the intensities of these signals at constriction sites increased (Figure 3: arrows in a, 4–12 sec; arrows in b, 8 sec). After the fission, GFP signals remained on both tips of fissioned mitochondria (Figure 3: arrows in a, 16 sec; arrows in b, 12–16 sec). These results indicate that DRP3A and DRP3B are actually localized to fission sites of mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] If DRP3A and DRP3B have some redundancy, which phenotypes will result when both genes are simultaneously disrupted? At first, we observed the plant appearances of drp3a, drp3b and their double mutants. We obtained DRP3A and DRP3B T-DNA insertion mutants, SALK_066958 (drp3a), SALK_045316 (drp3b-1) and SALK_085270 (drp3b-2), which have T-DNA insertions in the fifth intron, the twentieth exon and the ninth intron in respective genes (Figure 4a). The mature DRP3A mRNA in drp3a was reported to be undetectable by a northern blot analysis (CITATION). The drp3a/drp3b-1 and drp3a/drp3b-2 double mutants were obtained by crossing and self-pollinating. RT-PCR analysis using gene-specific primers, which amplify almost the entire open reading frames (ORFs), suggested that the mutants had severe reductions of DRP3A or DRP3B mRNA (Figure 4b). Compared with the wild type, these drp3a and drp3b-1 plants didn’t have any noticeable developmental or growth defects (Figure 4c). In the drp3a/drp3b-1 double mutants, neither DRP3A transcripts nor DRP3B transcripts were detected (Figure 4b). The drp3a/drp3b-1 double mutants showed growth retardation, dwarfism and distorted leaf phenotypes (Figure 4c). However, the double mutant plants didn’t have developmental lethality; they were able to complete their life cycle and remained fertile. The drp3a/drp3b-2 mutants showed phenotypes similar to those in the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant (Figure S2). Constitutive expression of either DRP3A or DRP3B under the CaMV35S complemented the growth defects, dwarfism and distorted leaf phenotypes of the drp3a/drp3b-1 double mutants (Figure 4c). The synthetic phenotypes in the double mutant suggest that DRP3A and DRP3B have overlapping functions in Arabidopsis development and growth. [[FIGURE]] Although DRP3A and DRP3B have roles in mitochondrial fission, it is unclear whether they have redundant roles in the same cells. To address this question, we analyzed the morphology, size and number of mitochondria in leaf epidermal cells of drp3a, drp3b and their double T-DNA insertion mutants, described above. Mitochondria in each leaf epidermal cell were visualized by bombardment with plasmids harboring the gene encoding CaMV35S:mitochondria-targeting GFP (Mt-GFP). In wild-type cells, most mitochondria were observed in particle or rod-like structures, the short diameters of which ranged from about 0.5 to 1 μm (Figure 5a, panel 1). In drp3a and drp3b-1, mitochondria were a little longer (tube-like structures) than those in the wild-type plants (Figure 5a, panels 2 and 3, respectively), but with similar short diameters. The averages of mitochondrial planar areas of each mitochondrion in drp3a and drp3b-1 were about 2.7 and 1.5 times larger than those in the wild type, respectively (Figure 5b). On the other hand, the average numbers of mitochondria in every 100-μm2 planar area of bombarded cells in the CLSM images of drp3a and drp3b-1 were less than those in the wild type (Figure 5b). These phenotypes in drp3a were more severe than those in drp3b-1. In drp3a/drp3b-1 plants, massively elongated and interconnected networks with some nodule-like structures of mitochondria were observed (Figure 5a, panel 4). Mitochondria in drp3a/drp3b-1 were much larger in size (about 40 times) and smaller in number (about 12 times less) than those in the wild type (Figure 5b). We confirmed that the mitochondrial phenotypes in morphology, size and number in drp3b-2 and drp3a/drp3b-2 were similar to those in drp3b-1 and drp3a/drp3b-1, respectively (Figure 5a, panels 7 and 8; Figure 5b). These results suggested that: (i) DRP3A and DRP3B have at least partially redundant functions in the mitochondrial morphology in leaf epidermal cells; (ii) DRP3A seems more effective in promoting mitochondrial fission than DRP3B; and (iii) loss of both DRP3A and DRP3B causes not only synthetic severe elongation of mitochondria, but also the formation of a network of mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] The functional redundancy of DRP3A and DRP3B in mitochondrial fission led us to test the possibility that DRP3A and DRP3B are interchangeable. To test this idea, we analyzed the mitochondrial morphology, size and number in transgenic drp3a/drp3b-1 lines with overexpression of DRP3A or DRP3B by CaMV35S. Almost all of the mitochondria in these transgenic plants showed particle structures (Figure 5a, panels 5 and 6). Interestingly, mitochondria in these lines were rather smaller (shorter) in size, and greater in number, than those in the wild-type plants (Figure 5b), possibly resulting from mitochondrial over-fission caused by the overexpression of each of the proteins. These results indicate that DRP3A and DRP3B have an interchangeable and redundant molecular function in mitochondrial fission. In the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant leaf epidermal cells, mitochondria were not only elongated but were also networked (Figure 5a, panel 4). The CLSM images in Figure 6a showed GFP-labeled mitochondria that were interconnected and stretched out, three-dimensionally, in the cell. The tubules are often longer than 100 μm. The network of mitochondria contained some large nodule-like structures, with diameters of 5–10 μm (Figure 6a, arrowheads). [[FIGURE]] The internal structures of tubule-structured mitochondria and nodule-like structures in the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant were examined with electron microscopy. The drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant had particle- or rod-shaped mitochondria (Figure 6b, panel 1, arrows, and panel 2) like those in the wild type (Figure 6b, panel 3). These particle- or rod-shaped mitochondria in the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant were expected to be the cross sections of tubule-structured mitochondria (Figure 6a, arrows). The mitochondria in sections of the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant and the wild type both have short diameters of similar size (Figure 6b, panels 2 and 3). The outer-membrane and inner-membrane structures of the mutants seem to be intact, but the cristae structures in the double mutant (Figure 6b, panel 2) were slightly more vacuolated than those of the wild type (Figure 6b, panel 3). Additionally, the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant often had dense aggregates of mitochondria (Figure 6b, panel 1, arrowhead). The aggregate in Figure 6b, panel 4, looks like a section of a ‘knot’ intricately entangled by tubule-structured mitochondria. These structures seem to be the nodule-like structures observed in the CLSM images (Figure 6a, arrowheads). These results suggest that the loss of both DRP3A and DRP3B result in the formation of a highly complicated network, constituted by tubule-structured mitochondria. Dynamin-related proteins that are involved in mitochondrial fission are localized to the outer surface of mitochondria, where they constrict the membrane in the last step of fission. Therefore, in the double mutant, fission of the inner membrane and matrix might be achieved by other mechanisms. To check the matrix continuity in the mutant, we analyzed the diffusion of mitochondrial matrix-targeting fluorescent protein in a single leaf epidermal cell of the drp3a/drp3b-1 mutant. The vectors for the transient expression of mitochondrial matrix-targeting Kaede (CITATION), an irreversible photoconvertible fluorescent protein (CITATION), were introduced into a leaf epidermal cell via particle bombardment. We bleached the green fluorescence of Mt-Kaede in the upper half of the transformed cell by exposing it to light of 380–420 nm in wavelength (Figure 6c, 1 min after bleach). After bleaching, the green-Kaede fluorescence in the bleached area gradually recovered with the flow of green-Kaede from the unbleached area (Figure 6c, 5–15 mins after bleach). At 20 mins after bleaching, most of the mitochondrial matrix appeared green again (Figure 6c, 20 mins after bleach). These results suggest that highly elongated and networked mitochondria in the drp3a/drp3b-1 double mutant have a continuous matrix space, and that the fission of the inner membrane and matrix is mediated by DRP3 proteins. To investigate the contributions of DRP3A and DRP3B in peroxisomal fission, we analyzed the morphology, size and number of peroxisomes in leaf epidermal cells of drp3a and drp3b T-DNA insertion mutants. Peroxisomes in each leaf epidermal cell were visualized by bombardment with plasmids harboring the gene encoding CaMV35S:Kaede, fused with peroxisomes targeting signal 1 (Kaede-PTS1). Most peroxisomes in wild-type cells had diameters of 0.5–1 μm (Figure 7a, panel 1). The peroxisomes in drp3a mutant cells (Figure 7a, panel 2) were larger in size (as were the particle structures) and fewer in number than those in the wild type (Figure 7b). Unexpectedly, peroxisomes in drp3b-1 and drp3b-2 mutant cells (Figure 7a, panels 3 and 7) were similar to those of the wild type in size and number (Figure 7b). Peroxisomes in drp3a/drp3b-1 and drp3a/drp3b-2 mutant cells (Figure 7a, panels 4 and 8) were also similar to those in the drp3a single mutant cells. The peroxisomes of drp3a, drp3a/drp3b-1 and drp3a/drp3b-2 were about 2.5 times larger and fewer than those of the wild type and drp3b-1 (Figure 7b). These results raise the possibility that DRP3A has the dominant role, and that DRP3B has little or no role, in peroxisomal fission in the leaf epidermal cells. [[FIGURE]] In the transgenic drp3a/drp3b-1 cells with overexpression of DRP3A, the morphology, size and number of peroxisomes were almost the same as those in wild-type cells (Figure 7a, panel 5; Figure 7b). On the other hand, in the transgenic drp3a/drp3b-1 cells with overexpression of DRP3B, the size and number of peroxisomes were not recovered to those of wild-type cells, but rather, were similar to those in drp3a/drp3b-1 cells (Figure 7b). In this transgenic line, elongated peroxisomes were often observed (Figure 7a, panel 6). Rather than having no role, these results suggest that DRP3B has a minor role in peroxisomal fission that is distinct from the role of DRP3A. To confirm the functional redundancy and difference between DRP3A and DRP3B in mitochondrial fission and peroxisomal fission simultaneously, we investigated the mitochondrial and peroxisomal morphology at the same time in Arabidopsis cultured cells overexpressing wild type of GTPase-defective mutants of DRP3A or DRP3B. Mitochondria appeared as rod or particle structures in the wild-type cells (Figure 8a), and as particles in cells overexpressing DRP3A or DRP3B (Figure 8b, c). Most peroxisomes were particle structures in the wild-type cells (Figure 8a), and in cells overexpressing DRP3A (Figure 8b). However, in cells overexpressing DRP3B, some of the peroxisomes were elongated (Figure 8c). These results suggest that overexpression of DRP3B causes the elongation of peroxisomes, irrespective of the presence or absence of native DRP3A and DRP3B. [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of either DRP3A or DRP3B with mutations in their GTPase domains caused mitochondrial elongation (CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis cultured cells transformed with same mutated DRP3A (Figure 8d) and DRP3B (Figure 8e), the peroxisomes were elongated, and mitochondria were swollen. Moreover, the elongated peroxisomes (Figure 8d, e) were similar to those in cells overexpressing wild-type DRP3B (Figure 8c). These results indicate that the overexpression of DRP3B caused the elongation of peroxisomal morphology, similar to that caused by the overexpression of GTPase-defective mutants of DRP3A or DRP3B.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia-0) were grown at 22°C under 14-h of diurnal light (50–100 μE m−2 sec−1). The T-DNA insertion mutants were provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/~plantbio/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm). Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were grown in modified MS medium with 1 mg l−1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and were maintained as described in CITATION. Expressed sequence tag (EST) clones of DRP3A (GenBank accession no. AV528354) and DRP3B (GenBank accession no. AV529344), and a cDNA clone of DRP1A (GenBank accession no. BT001063), were obtained from Kazusa DNA Research Institute (http://www.kazusa.or.jp/e) and ABRC, respectively. Vectors used in yeast two-hybrid assays, and plant binary vectors harboring DRP3A and DRP3B, were constructed by using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). The oligonucleotide primers used in this study are presented in Table S1. Open reading frames (ORFs) of DRP3A, DRP3B and DRP1A were amplified by PCR, and were then cloned into pDONR201 and pDONR207 Gateway entry vector via the Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). For yeast two-hybrid assays, the ORFs of DRP3A, DRP3B and DRP1A cloned into pDONR201 were transferred to pDEST32 for fusing to the GAL4 DNA binding domain, or were transferred to pDEST22 for fusing to the GAL4 activation domain, via Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen). Ti plasmids were prepared for transforming A. thaliana via Agrobacterium tumefaciens with DRP3A:GFP and DRP3B:GFP, in which expression was driven by the DRP3A and DRP3B promoters, respectively. The promoters consisted of 3025 and 3027 bp, respectively, of the region upstream of the ATG initiation codon. The promoters were amplified from genomic DNA, and the ORFs were amplified from EST clones. The promoters and ORFs were then fused by PCR with synthetic overlapped primers. The resulting fragments of DRP3Apromoter:DRP3A and DRP3Bpromoter:DRP3B were subcloned into pDONR207 via the BP reaction. These two fragments in entry vectors were transferred into the plant binary vector pB7FWG to fuse the GFP:CaMV35Sterminator via the LR reaction (Invitrogen). pB7FWG was generated by the removal of the CaMV35Spromoter region from pB7FWG2 through HindIII–SpeI digestion, DNA blunting and self ligation. pB7FWG2 is the Ti plasmid for the overexpression of the gene encoding the C-terminal GFP fusions by CaMV35S (CITATION). To make Ti plasmids for DRP3B:mKO expressed by its own promoter, the fragments of DRP3Bpromoter:DRP3B and mKO were amplified and fused by PCR. The resulting DRP3Bpromoter:DRP3B:mKO fragment was cloned into pENTRTM/D-TOPO entry vector via the TOPO cloning reaction (Invitrogen). The DRP3Bpromoter:DRP3B:mKO fragment was transferred from the entry vector to the plant binary vector pGWB7 via the LR reaction. In pGWB7, any fragments can be located in the upstream region of 6 × His:NOSterminator (CITATION). To make Ti plasmids for the overexpression of mutated DRP3A [DRP3A (K72A)] and DRP3B [DRP3B (K56A)], the ORFs were amplified by PCR from previously constructed vectors (CITATION), and were cloned into pDONR201 via the Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). Entry vectors containing DRP3A, DRP3B, DRP3A(K72A) and DRP3B(K56A) were used in the LR reaction with the plant binary vector pB2GW7 and pH2GW7mt. pB2GW7 and pH2GW7mt are the Ti plasmids for the overexpression of any fragments by CaMV35S (CITATION), and for the co-overexpression of Mt-GFP and any fragments, respectively. The construction method of pH2GW7mt was described in CITATION. The yeast two-hybrid assay was performed by using the ProQuest two-hybrid system (Invitrogen). Paired plasmids of pDEST32 and pDEST22 harboring DRP3A, DRP3B and DRP1A (shown in Figure 1b) were co-transformed into the strain Mav203 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp (synthetic defined plate deficient for both Leu and Trp) plates. The interactions were examined independently by growth on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His with 100 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (AT) and SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ura plates, and by assessing the X-gal assay according to the supplier’s protocol. The Ti plasmids described above were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain C58C1. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed by using transformed A. tumefaciens via floral dipping (CITATION). Transgenic T1 plants were selected on plates containing solid modified MS medium, containing 1% sucrose and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin, or on rock-fiber blocks by spraying a solution containing 35 mg l−1 glufosinate. Each pH2GW7mt construct and a Ti plasmid expressing the peroxisome-targeting PTS2-RFP were co-transformed into A. tumefaciens strain C58C1. Each transformed Agrobacterium cultured in LB medium, containing 50 mg l−1 kanamycin and 100 mg l−1 spectinomycin (OD = 0.5) was suspended in modified MS medium. The Agrobacterium suspensions were inoculated with a 10-ml culture of 2-day-old Arabidopsis cells. For the removal of Agrobacterium, 30 μl of 250 mg ml−1 claforan was added to these cultures 1 day after inoculation. The Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were transferred to fresh media 5 days after the inoculation. Microscopic observations were performed 8 days after the Agrobacterium inoculation. Plasmids for visualizing mitochondria and peroxisomes were introduced into leaf epidermal cells via particle bombardment, by using a helium-driven particle accelerator (PDS/1000; Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com), with all basic adjustments set according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. The bombardment parameters applied were as follows: bombardment pressure, 7.6 × 104 hPa; gold particles of 1.6 μm in diameter; 12 cm between the macrocarrier and leaf pieces; decompression vacuum, 915 hPa. After bombardment, Arabidopsis leaves were incubated on MS agar plates at a constant 22°C under diurnal light conditions for 12 h. The construction method of the plasmid for transient expression of Mt-Kaede and Kaede-PTS1 was described by CITATION. Mitochondrial targeting of GFP and Kaede was accomplished by adding a targeting signal for the ATPase δ-subunit. Small sections (10–50 mm2) were cut out of the Arabidopsis leaves with new laser blades, and were then stained with 1 μm MitoTracker Orange (Molecular Probes, http://www.invitrogen.com/site/us/en/home/brands/Molecular-Probes.html) for about 60 mins. Arabidopsis leaves, and cultured cells with fluorescent fusion proteins or stained with fluorescent dyes, were subjected to vital imaging by using a fluorescence microscope (TE2000-U; Nikon, http://www.nikon.com), and CLSM systems (MicroRadiance MR/AG-2, Bio-Rad; LSM 5-LIVE, Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). The latter system was used to generate Figure 6a. In both systems, a 488-nm Ar/Kr laser was used for the excitation of GFP and Kaede. A 543-nm He/Ne laser was also used for mKO, DsRed and MitoTracker Orange. Emission signals were detected using 515/30-nm filter for GFP and Kaede, and a 590/70-nm or 570-nm long-pass filter for mKO, DsRed and MitoTracker Orange. The CLSM images in Figures 2a and 3 were acquired in a single focal plane. The CLSM images in Figures 2b–e, 5, 6c, 7 and 8, or 6a, were obtained by superimposing several images on the same position, except that the z-axis position of the focal plane was varied by steps of 1 μm or 0.25 μm. The acquired images were prepared with Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com), and were analyzed by Image pro plus 4.0 (Media Cybernetics, http://www.mediacy.com). For the electron microscopic analysis, 50-day-old Arabidopsis leaves were harvested from wild-type plants and drp3a/drp3b-1 mutants. Ultra-thin sectioning and microscopic analysis were performed as described previously by CITATION, with slight modifications as described below. The fixation was performed without 0.06 m sucrose overnight at 4°C. Samples were cut into 1–2-mm2 square sections. The fixed samples were then post-fixed with 0.5% osmium tetroxide for 2 h. The specimens were stained in 0.4% uranyl acetate for 2 h. After staining, all sections were examined under a transmission electron microscope (model H-7600; Hitachi, http://www.hitachi-hitec.com). The total RNA for RT-PCR analysis was extracted from 50-day-old Arabidopsis leaves by using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) following the manufacturer’s instructions. A 400-ng portion of total RNA was used for RT-PCR analysis. RT-PCR analysis was performed with gene-specific primers by using the One Step RT-PCR Kit (Qiagen). The oligonucleotide primers used in this study are presented in Table S1.
