!~ABS~! Oligomeric structures of the four LOV domains in Arabidopsis phototropin1 (phot1) and 2 (phot2) were studied using crosslinking. Both LOV1 domains of phot1 and phot2 form a dimer independently on the light conditions, suggesting that the LOV1 domain can be a stable dimerization site of phot in vivo. In contrast, phot1-LOV2 is in a monomer–dimer equilibrium and phot2-LOV2 exists as a monomer in the dark. Blue light-induced a slight increase in the monomer population in phot1-LOV2, suggesting a possible blue light-inducible dissociation of dimers. Furthermore, blue light caused a band shift of the phot2-LOV2 monomer. CD spectra revealed the unfolding of helices and the formation of strand structures. Both light-induced changes were reversible in the dark.
!~RES~! Crosslinking showed that almost all the phot1-LOV1 molecules form dimers in the dark independently for all sample concentrations measured, although the polypeptide bands became smeared, probably due to heterogeneous crosslinking (CITATION A, left). Light irradiation had little effect on the oligomeric state (CITATIONA, middle and right). Similarly, the majority of phot2-LOV1 molecules were dimers in the dark at all concentrations measured (CITATIONB left). Blue light hardly changed the oligomeric patterns (CITATIONB, middle and right) as in the case of phot1-LOV1. Phot1-LOV2 is a mixture of monomers and dimers with a trace amount of trimer in dark conditions (CITATIONC, left). The monomer band became slightly thicker upon blue light irradiation (CITATIONC, middle) which was reversible in the dark (CITATIONC, right). The population of dimers in the mixture increased as the sample concentration increased. To measure this quantitatively, SDS–PAGE was performed so that the monomer bands show the same thickness by Coomassie staining (CITATION ). The increase in the monomer to dimer ratio clearly shows that the increase of the dimer population depends on the increase in sample concentration, indicating that pho1-LOV2 is in a dissociation–association equilibrium between monomers and dimers. In contrast, phot2-LOV2 was in a monomeric form with trace amounts of dimer under dark conditions in all concentrations measured (CITATIOND, left). Interestingly, there seem to be two bands overlapping in the monomer band. Blue light did not alter the oligomeric pattern; however, it did induce an increase in the lower molecular weight species (CITATIOND, middle). This increase is reversible in the dark (CITATIOND, right). To discover the origin of the blue light-induced shift of the monomer band of phot2-LOV2 (CITATION A), CD spectra were measured in the dark and after irradiation (CITATIONB). The two negative peaks at 222nm and 208nm lost their intensity by 14% and 19%, respectively, suggesting a loss of helicity and the positive peak at around 190nm showed a small red shift (CITATIONB, black and gray lines and 3C). These blue light-induced CD changes were reversed after leaving the sample in the dark. To analyze the changes quantitatively, the CD spectra were decomposed into Helix1, Helix2, Strand1, Strand2, Turns and Unordered (CITATION ). The analysis indicates that both Helices I and II decreased by 3% and 2%, respectively, and Strands I and II increased by 3% and 1%, respectively, upon blue light-activation. Taken together, the results suggest a blue light-induced unfolding of α-helices and the formation of a β-sheet.
!~MM~! DNA fragments encoding Atphot1-LOV1 (amino acids 180–329), Atphot1-LOV2 (449–586), Atphot2-LOV1 (117–265), and Atphot2-LOV2 (363–500) were cloned into the bacterial expression vector pGEX4T1 (Amersham) and expressed as fusion proteins to N-terminal glutathione S-transferase (GST) in JM109 Escherichia coli cells. The cells were grown at 310K in LB medium containing 50μg/ml ampicillin until A600 reached 0.5, and then incubated at 297K for 20h in darkness with 0.1mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside. The following purification procedures were carried out at 273–277K under dim red light. Bacterial cells were collected by centrifugation, washed with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and lysed in the presence of 1mM phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride by sonication. The supernatant was mixed with glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham). After the resin was washed with PBS, the LOV polypeptides were cleaved from the GST tag with thrombin which left five amino acid residues (Gly-Ser-Pro-Glu-Phe) on the N-terminal end. Since phot2-LOV1 has an endogenous thrombin cleavage site in the N-terminal region, phot2-LOV1 was treated by thrombin extensively to make it a single component of 120V–265K. The dissociated polypeptides from the resin were purified further by gel chromatography on a Sephacryl S-100 HR column (Amersham) equilibrated and eluted with a 100mM NaCl, 20mM NaHPO4, (pH 7.8) solution. The eluted protein showed a single band in SDS–PAGE gels stained with Coomassie brilliant blue, except for phot1-LOV2, which had a small amount of degradation. The purified polypeptides were concentrated by ultrafiltration and stored at 277K until use. For crosslinking, glutaraldehyde (GA) (Sigma–Aldrich) was used. Protein concentrations of the four LOV polypeptide stock solutions were determined using the reported molar absorption coefficients at FMN absorption peak CITATION. The stock solutions were diluted with the same buffer used for column chromatography. The final concentration of GA was set to 5mM. Crosslinking was performed under three different light conditions. (1) Dark: GA was added under dim red light and incubated in the dark for 1h; (2) Light: after preirradiation for 1min by blue light, GA was added and incubated under blue light for 1h; (3) Light-Dark: after the same blue light treatment as that of the Light sample in the absence of GA, the sample was kept for 15min in the dark. Then, GA was added under dim red light and incubated for 1h in the dark. The crosslinking reactions were stopped with SDS–PAGE sample buffer and the polypeptide samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE. Polypeptide bands were visualized with Coomassie brilliant blue staining. Blue light (150μmolphotonsm−2 s−1 at the sample position) was supplied with an LED illuminator (ISL-150X150-88, CCS Inc. Japan, λ max at 475nm). CD spectra of phot2-LOV2 in PBS solution were measured in the far UV (180–260nm) region at 273K with a spectropolarimeter (J820, JASCO) equipped with an electric temperature-controlling system under flowing N2 gas. The optical pathway was 0.1cm and the concentration of the phot2-LOV2 sample was 7.4μM. For each measurement, 10 spectra were collected and averaged. Sample spectra were obtained by subtracting the spectra of the sample buffer. Setting the cuvette and measuring CD spectra were carried out in darkness. Between every measurement, samples were kept in darkness for 5min. The measuring light from a spectropolarimeter in the far UV region has little actinic effect on the UV–visible absorption spectra of phot2-LOV2 solutions as measured with a spectrophotometer (U-3010, Hitachi). To obtain the CD spectra of the light-activated state, a scan was started immediately after blue light irradiation for 1min during which the CD measuring light was shuttered. For blue light irradiation, a handmade LED illuminator (λ max at 467nm) was used that was set beside the sample cuvette in the spectropolarimeter (150μmolphotonsm−2 s−1 at the sample position). To avoid the effect of dark recovery during the measurements, CD spectra were measured at 273K to slow down the dark recovery from a half life of 5–28s (data not shown), and a single scan was completed within 9.6s. Besides the retarded dark recovery, UV–visible absorption spectral changes by blue light were almost the same between 298K and 273K. The secondary structure composition of Atphot2-LOV2 was predicted based on the CD spectra from 190 to 240nm using the On Line Circular Dichroism Analysis, DICHROWEB (http://dichroweb.cryst.bbk.ac.uk) CITATION. Input and output units, and the wavelength step were θ (mdeg) and 1.0nm, respectively. The algorithm used was CDSSTR CITATION and reference database was SP175 CITATION.
