!~ABS~! The ultraviolet‐B (UV‐B) portion of the solar radiation functions as an environmental signal for which plants have evolved specific and sensitive UV‐B perception systems. The UV‐B‐specific UV RESPONSE LOCUS 8 (UVR8) and the multifunctional E3 ubiquitin ligase CONSTITUTIVELY PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (COP1) are key regulators of the UV‐B response. We show here that uvr8‐null mutants are deficient in UV‐B‐induced photomorphogenesis and hypersensitive to UV‐B stress, whereas overexpression of UVR8 results in enhanced UV‐B photomorphogenesis, acclimation and tolerance to UV‐B stress. By using sun simulators, we provide evidence at the physiological level that UV‐B acclimation mediated by the UV‐B‐specific photoregulatory pathway is indeed required for survival in sunlight. At the molecular level, we demonstrate that the wild type but not the mutant UVR8 and COP1 proteins directly interact in a UV‐B‐dependent, rapid manner in planta. These data collectively suggest that UV‐B‐specific interaction of COP1 and UVR8 in the nucleus is a very early step in signalling and responsible for the plant's coordinated response to UV‐B ensuring UV‐B acclimation and protection in the natural environment.
!~RES~! To uncover players involved in early UV‐B signalling, we screened for mutants altered in UV‐B‐induced expression of the HY5 gene. This was accomplished by generating an Arabidopsis line carrying a transgene consisting of the HY5 promoter fused to the firefly luciferase coding sequence (Ws/ProHY5:Luc) (CITATION). A number of mutants showing no UV‐B induction were identified in the M2 generation after EMS mutagenesis. The identified mutants fell into two complementation groups, and we found that these constituted new cop1 and uvr8 alleles. In addition to the cop1‐4 allele described before (Gln‐283 to Stop) (CITATION), we identified a novel allele carrying a point mutation in the region encoding the WD40 repeats of COP1, namely Gly‐608 (GGA) changed to Arg (AGA). The corresponding mutant, designated as cop1‐19, has a weak constitutively photomorphogenic (cop) phenotype in dark and enhanced photomorphogenesis in light, similar to cop1‐4. This genetic screen also identified nine novel uvr8 alleles different from any of the previously described ones (uvr8‐1 to uvr8‐5) (CITATION; CITATION) (Supplementary Figure S1). In addition, we identified an uvr8 T‐DNA insertion line from the SALK collection (uvr8‐6, SALK_033468; see Supplementary Figure S1 for molecular characterization). Throughout the remainder of the work described, we used the uvr8‐6 (Col) and uvr8‐7 (Ws; Gln‐124 to Stop)‐null mutant alleles. The results were comparable for both alleles. To increase our understanding of UVR8 function in regulating UV‐B‐induced photomorphogenesis, we examined UV‐B‐responsive hypocotyl shortening. These experiments were performed under specific UV‐B irradiation conditions using white light supplemented with narrowband UV‐B. Under these conditions, 4‐day‐old wild‐type Arabidopsis seedlings are grown without any sign of damage, but display about 50% inhibition of hypocotyl growth accompanied by anthocyanin and flavonoid accumulation (CITATION). FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure S1 show that hypocotyl growth of the uvr8 mutant seedlings, in stark contrast to wild‐type seedlings, was not inhibited by UV‐B. Importantly, in contrast to cop1 (CITATION), the hypocotyl growth of uvr8 under visible light is not different from wild type. Thus, we conclude that uvr8 mutants are non‐responsive to UV‐B as a photomorphogenic signal. Moreover, these data strongly indicate that the narrowband UV‐B irradiation conditions used are ideal to specifically analyse UV‐B‐induced photomorphogenesis and distinguish it from UV‐B damage/stress responses. [[FIGURE]] Next to the hypocotyl phenotype, analysis of the uvr8 alleles showed that all of them are completely insensitive to UV‐B concerning HY5 gene activation (data not shown). However, the same uvr8 mutants showed normal HY5 activation by red, far‐red and blue light (Supplementary Figure S2). These data, together with the previous data from CITATION, indicate a UV‐B‐specific function of the UVR8 protein. To have a more global view on gene expression changes underlying the UV‐B photomorphogenic response, we carried out Affymetrix ATH1 Genechip analysis. We investigated, parallel to wild type, the impact of the loss of UVR8 and COP1 under these low‐level, narrowband (∼312 nm) UV‐B conditions using the uvr8‐6‐null and the cop1‐4 mutants. We analysed gene expression changes in 4‐day‐old seedlings grown under continuous light with or without supplementary UV‐B in the same light field (under WG305 and WG345 cutoff, respectively). In addition, to analyse the early UV‐B response (see CITATION for experimental scheme), we grew seedlings for 4 days without UV‐B under a WG345 cutoff filter and then exchanged it for a WG305 cutoff filter 1 or 6 h before harvesting. These different treatments are designated as 96 h −UV‐B, 1 h +UV‐B, 6 h +UV‐B and 96 h +UV‐B. Data obtained demonstrate that in wild‐type seedlings already after 1 h UV‐B irradiation numerous transcripts are altered (e.g. 377 and 102 genes up‐ and downregulated, respectively), whereas these changes are virtually absent in the uvr8‐6 and cop1‐4 mutants (FIG-REF). These effects are similarly true for genes activated at 6 h +UV‐B and 96 h +UV‐B, as well as for genes downregulated at all time points (FIG-REF). These UV‐B‐activated classes include genes associated with UV‐B tolerance such as photorepair of UV‐B‐induced DNA damage and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis to mount a sunscreen effect and their transcriptional regulators (see Supplementary Tables S1, S2 and S3). Most importantly, these data strongly indicate that almost all genes of the postulated UV‐B photoreceptor‐specific regulatory pathway(s) are dependent on functional UVR8 and COP1 proteins, supporting their major role. To determine whether UVR8 protein is a rate‐limiting factor in the Arabidopsis UV‐B response, we generated transgenic lines overexpressing UVR8 under the control of the constitutive strong CaMV35S promoter. Using western blot analysis, levels of UVR8 overexpression were estimated and two transgenic lines in which quantitative RT–PCR also detected an approximately 30‐fold overexpression of UVR8 mRNA compared with wild type were used for detailed analysis (FIG-REF). In these lines, a marked UV‐B photomorphogenic hypersensitivity was observed in all assays employed, including hypocotyl growth inhibition, HY5 and CHS gene activation, and anthocyanin accumulation (FIG-REF). Thus, we conclude that UVR8 has a rate‐limiting function in the UV‐B photomorphogenic pathway. [[FIGURE]] Using quantitative RT–PCR assays, we found no detectable UV‐B‐mediated early activation of the endogenous HY5 and CHS genes in cop1 and uvr8 mutants (FIG-REF). However, it is of note that uvr8 mutants do not show any constitutively photomorphogenic phenotype, indicating normal function of COP1. Reciprocally, to analyse the UVR8 protein levels in cop1 mutants, we have generated polyclonal antibodies against a specific C‐terminal peptide of UVR8. The antibody detects a single band (about 47 kDa) in wild‐type cell extracts that corresponds to the expected size of the UVR8 protein (440 amino acids with predicted mass 47 kDa) and this is absent in the uvr8‐6‐null mutant. Importantly, levels of UVR8 protein are comparable in cop1‐4, hy5‐215 mutant and wild‐type seedlings (FIG-REF), thereby excluding an indirect cause of their previously described UV‐B phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, we conclude that COP1 does not affect UVR8 protein levels under standard growth conditions. Moreover, chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that UVR8 associates with the HY5 promoter region independent of COP1 (Supplementary Figure S3A). [[FIGURE]] The total absence of a UV‐B regulatory response, for example, in HY5 and CHS gene activation, indicates that the COP1 and the UVR8 proteins function in the same genetic pathway. We thus hypothesized that COP1 and UVR8 might function together in the UV‐B photomorphogenic signalling pathway. To investigate whether COP1 and UVR8 proteins interact, we made use of a transient expression system in mustard (Sinapis alba), a plant with a well‐established photomorphogenic response (CITATION, and references therein) (Supplementary Figure S4A). We generated expression constructs of YFP–COP1 and CFP–UVR8 and delivered the corresponding plasmids into mustard hypocotyls by biolistic gene transfer. Under standard conditions without UV‐B, YFP–COP1 localized to nuclear bodies in mustard hypocotyl cells (Supplementary Figure S4B), as described before for onion epidermal cells (e.g. CITATION). In contrast, CFP–UVR8 is detected as diffuse nuclear fluorescence in the same cells. However, when the co‐bombarded plants were irradiated with UV‐B, also CFP–UVR8 formed nuclear bodies that largely colocalized with YFP–COP1 (Supplementary Figure S4B). This indicates that CFP–UVR8 was recruited into YFP–COP1 nuclear bodies in a UV‐B‐dependent manner and that these two proteins might reside in the same protein complex under UV‐B specifically. To investigate whether UVR8 and COP1 are indeed directly interacting under UV‐B, we used the bimolecular fluorescent complementation (BiFC) assay (CITATION). By using this assay, we could clearly identify reconstitution of a functional YFP signal from the complementary ‘split YFP’ parts attached to the UVR8 and COP1 proteins. However, similar to the colocalization, the direct interaction of UVR8 and COP1 was again UV‐B dependent (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S4C, right), as there was barely any YFP signal detectable when the supplementary UV‐B was removed (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S4C, left). Importantly, we could not detect any YFP signal when empty vector controls were used in combination with YN‐/YC‐UVR8 and YN‐/YC‐COP1 (Supplementary Figure S4D). It is also of note that in sharp contrast to the UV‐B‐dependent interaction of COP1 with UVR8, interaction of UVR8 with itself was readily detectable independent of supplementary UV‐B (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We further investigated whether mutant alleles of COP1 and UVR8 are still able to interact with their corresponding wild‐type partner or whether COP1–UVR8 interaction correlates with a functional UV‐B response. A number of uvr8 mutants express mutant UVR8 proteins at about wild‐type level (Supplementary Figure S1B). This is of note as the mutants with single amino‐acid changes in UVR8 displayed absence of the UV‐B response, apparently identical to the null alleles (e.g. uvr8‐1 and uvr8‐6). Thus, we have tested interaction of UVR8G145S (corresponding to uvr8‐15) and UVR8G202R (corresponding to uvr8‐9) with wild‐type COP1 and found that these non‐functional UVR8 alleles were not capable of interacting with COP1 anymore (FIG-REF). By using the COP1N282 (corresponding to cop1‐4) truncation and COP1G608R (corresponding to cop1‐19) protein, we found that it is the WD40 repeats of COP1 that are important for interaction with UVR8 (FIG-REF). In contrast to cop1‐4 and cop1‐19, the cop1eid6 mutant is still able to respond to UV‐B (CITATION), despite their comparable enhanced photomorphogenic phenotype in visible light (CITATION). In agreement, we found that the corresponding COP1H69Y protein, mutated in a conserved histidine residue of the RING finger domain, still interacts with UVR8 under UV‐B (FIG-REF). Thus, we conclude that functional UVR8 and COP1 are required for direct interaction with their wild‐type partner protein. To further investigate COP1–UVR8 interaction in planta, we performed co‐immunoprecipitation experiments. To do this, we have generated transgenic lines constitutively expressing YFP‐tagged COP1 in cop1‐4 mutants, which led to complementation of the cop1‐4 UV‐B response (CITATION). In agreement with the BiFC data, endogenous UVR8 protein was co‐immunoprecipitated with YFP–COP1 from cop1‐4/Pro35S:YFP‐COP1 under UV‐B specifically (FIG-REF). In contrast, no co‐immunoprecipitation of UVR8 was found under conditions devoid of UV‐B or from control plants not expressing YFP–COP1 (FIG-REF). Similarly, no protein cross‐reacting with our anti‐UVR8 antibodies was detected in the YFP control pull downs from plants expressing YFP–COP1 in a cop1 uvr8 double mutant background (cop1‐4 uvr8‐6/Pro35S:YFP‐COP1) (FIG-REF). It should also be pointed out that YFP–COP1 protein levels are stabilized under UV‐B and that this effect is dependent on the presence of UVR8 protein (FIG-REF). Notwithstanding this, we could detect co‐immunoprecipitation of UVR8 with YFP–COP1 as early as 5 min after UV‐B irradiation, when YFP–COP1 levels are not yet elevated (FIG-REF). Thus, we conclude that COP1 and UVR8 interact in vivo in a specific, rather rapid and UV‐B‐dependent manner. [[FIGURE]] Altogether, our and published data predict an important role of the UVR8/COP1‐mediated UV‐B photomorphogenic pathway in UV‐B acclimation and tolerance. To further support this notion and provide a physiological demonstration of UV‐B acclimation, we combined weak narrowband UV‐B exposure with subsequent broadband UV‐B stress. Exposure of wild‐type seedlings for 7 days to narrowband UV‐B that activates photomorphogenic responses resulted in tolerance to a subsequent broadband UV‐B stress treatment (FIG-REF). This acclimation effect was absent in uvr8 mutants and enhanced in UVR8 overexpressor lines (FIG-REF). Similarly, cop1‐4 mutants were impaired in their acclimation response, whereas the cop1eid6 displayed higher UV‐B stress tolerance after acclimation (Supplementary Figure S5). This is in good agreement with the previously demonstrated absence and presence of UV‐B photomorphogenic response in cop1‐4 and cop1eid6 alleles, respectively (CITATION). Thus, weak photomorphogenic UV‐B promotes plant survival under higher fluence rates of UV‐B in a UVR8‐ and COP1‐dependent manner. [[FIGURE]] Moreover, to clarify the importance of the UV‐B photomorphogenic pathway under natural conditions, we grew plants in sun simulators with a natural spectral balance throughout the ultraviolet to infrared spectrum (CITATION). Under these realistic conditions, uvr8 mutant plants were strongly affected by UV‐B radiation. They displayed strong leaf curling and cell death, and were light green (FIG-REF). In contrast, UVR8 overexpressor lines were clearly tolerant to UV‐B, but they were dwarf and dark green (FIG-REF). We conclude that a major role of the UV‐B‐induced photomorphogenic response is the acclimation of plants to finally establish UV‐B tolerance, a role required for survival in sunlight. The dwarfed phenotype of UVR8 overexpression lines under UV‐B closely resembles the cop1 mutant grown in light. This may be explained by a high cost of having an elevated UV‐B photomorphogenic response or that UVR8 interaction results in COP1 inactivation. In agreement with the latter, we found that endogenous and constitutively expressed HY5 protein is stabilized under supplementary UV‐B and is readily degraded under UV‐B exclusion in a COP1‐dependent manner (FIG-REF). Thus, our data indicate that part of the UV‐B signalling mechanism includes COP1 inactivation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! cop1‐4, hy5‐215 and uvr8‐6 (SALK_033468) are in the Columbia ecotype (Col) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), cop1eid6 in Landsberg erecta (Ler) (CITATION), uvr8 and cop1 mutants derived from the ProHY5:Luc+ genetic screen are in the Wassilewskija background (Ws). The uvr8‐7 mutant was backcrossed at least five times to wild type. Plants were grown exactly as described previously (CITATION). The Ws/ProHY5:Luc+ reporter and the cop1‐4/Pro35S:YFP‐COP1 were described before (CITATION; CITATION). The wild‐type and mutant COP1‐ and UVR8‐coding regions were cloned into pDONR207 and sequenced to check integrity of the cloned fragment. Gateway‐based cloning was then used to insert the ORF into the binary destination vectors pB2GW7, pB7WGC2 and pB7WGY2 (CITATION). The constructs were verified by sequencing and Arabidopsis plants were transformed by Agrobacterium using the floral dip method (CITATION). The resulting transgenic lines described in this study were genetically determined to have the transgene integrated at a single locus. Conditions for narrowband UV‐B irradiation were exactly as described before (CITATION): plants were grown under continuous irradiation in a white‐light field with Osram L18W/30 tubes (3.6 μmol m−2 s−1; measured with a LI‐250 Light Meter; LI‐COR Biosciences) supplemented with Philips TL20W/01RS narrowband UV‐B tubes (1.5 μmol m−2 s−1; measured with a VLX‐3W Ultraviolet Light Meter equipped with a CX‐312 sensor; Vilber Lourmat). The UV‐B range was modulated by the use of 3‐mm transmission cutoff filters of the WG series with half‐maximal transmission at the indicated wavelength (WG305 and WG345; Schott Glaswerke). In general, seedlings were grown for 4 days under continuous light supplemented with UV‐B under a 345‐nm cutoff filter (−UV‐B) or 305‐nm cutoff filter (+UV‐B). The 345‐nm cutoff filters were exchanged after 4 days for a 305‐nm cutoff at 1 and 6 h before harvesting, as indicated. For UV‐B stress treatments, broadband UV‐B lamps (Philips TL40W/12RS) were used exactly as described previously (CITATION). A sun simulator was used to study the plants’ response under natural light and UV radiation conditions (CITATION). The daylight period was 14 h with a mean PAR of 800 μmol m−2 s−1 and 12 h UV‐B irradiance, which was weighted with the generalized plant action spectrum, normalized at 300 nm (CITATION), giving the biologically effective (BE) quantity UVBE 400 mW m−2. Controls were grown under UV exclusion. The temperature was 23 and 18°C during the day and night, respectively, with relative humidity kept at 60%. Anthocyanins were extracted and quantified according to CITATION. Hypocotyl growth inhibition was analysed as described before (CITATION). Experiments were carried out in at least three independent biological repetitions. Arabidopsis RNA was isolated with the Plant RNeasy Kit (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA quality control, cRNA synthesis and labelling, and ATH1 array hybridizations were performed by the NASC's International Affymetrix Service. Expression values were estimated from the arrays using the GC‐RMA function within Genedata's Refiner 4.5 package. Expression values were quantile normalized and genes with a Wilcoxon signed rank detection P‐value ≤0.04 in at least 66% of the condition replicates were considered to be expressed. Analysis was performed in Genedata's Analyst 4.5 application. Genes were required to pass a one‐way ANOVA (P<0.05) and a Tukey post hoc test. The highest Storay–Tibshirani Q‐value observed in the data with these settings was 0.025 (CITATION). The lists were further reduced to emphasize the largest changes by applying an ad hoc 1.5‐fold difference in medians. These are the lists reported. The microarray data are deposited under accession number E‐MEXP‐1957 in the ArrayExpress database (www.ebi.ac.uk/microarray-as/ae/). Arabidopsis total RNA was treated with DNaseI according to the manufacturer's specifications (Qiagen). Per PCR reaction, cDNA was synthesized from 50 ng RNA with random hexamers using the TaqMan Reverse Transcription Reagents Kit (Applied Biosystems). Quantitative RT–PCR was carried out in 96‐well format using a 7300 Real‐Time PCR System and TaqMan probes (Applied Biosystems). PCR reactions were performed using the ABsolute QPCR Rox Mix Kit following the manufacturer's instructions (ABgene). The gene‐specific probes and primers were as follows: CHS (At5G13930) probe 6‐FAM‐TCGAGCGCGTGCGTTCTCTTCA‐TAMRA with CHS_for (5′‐CGTGTTGAGCGAGTATGGAAAC‐3′) and CHS‐rev (5′‐TGACTTCCTCCTCATCTCGTCTAGT‐3′); HY5 (At5g11260) probe 6‐FAM‐CTCTGCTCCACATTTG‐MGB with HY5_for (5′‐CAAGCAGCGAGAGGTCATCA‐3′) and HY5_rev (5′‐CATCGCTTTCAATTCCTTCTTTG‐3′). cDNA concentrations were normalized to the 18S rRNA transcript levels as standard using the Eukaryotic 18S rRNA Kit (Applied Biosystems). Expression was determined in triplicate measurements. The COP1 and UVR8 gene fragments were transferred into BiFC binary vectors (CITATION), pE‐SPYNE‐GW and pE‐SPYCE‐GW, that were made Gateway compatible and kindly provided by Caroline Carsjens and Wolfgang Dröge‐Laser (University of Göttingen). Transient transformation of mustard seedlings using the biolistic PDS‐1000/He system (Bio‐Rad) and BiFC assays were carried out according to CITATION. Microscopical analysis was performed as described before (CITATION). Microscopy data were confirmed in at least three independent experiments. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies were generated against a synthetic peptide derived from the UVR8 protein sequence (amino acids C+426–440: CGDISVPQTDVKRVRI) and were affinity purified against the peptide (Eurogentec). For YFP–COP1 immunoprecipitation, protein extracts were incubated with monoclonal anti‐GFP antibodies (Invitrogen) and protein A‐agarose (Roche Applied Science) in extraction buffer EB (50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Igepal, 2 mM benzamidine, 10 mM β‐mercaptoethanol, 1 mM PMSF, 1 mM TPCK, 10 μM leupeptine, 10 μM dichloroisocumarin, 1% (v/v) protease inhibitor cocktail for plant extracts (Sigma), 10 μM MG132) for 1 h at 4°C, and beads were washed three times in buffer EB. For protein gel blot analysis, total cellular proteins (10 μg) or immunoprecipitates were separated by electrophoresis in 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gel and electrophoretically transferred to PVDF membrane according to the manufacturer's instructions (Bio‐Rad). We used polyclonal anti‐UVR8, anti‐HY5 (CITATION), anti‐actin (Sigma), anti‐CHS (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and monoclonal anti‐GFP (BAbCO) as primary antibodies, with horseradish peroxidase‐conjugated protein A (Pierce) or anti‐rabbit, anti‐goat and anti‐mouse immunoglobulins (Dako A/S) as secondary antibodies, as required. Signal detection was performed using the ECL Plus Western detection kit (GE Healthcare). Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
