!~ABS~! DNA damage in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings results in upregulation of hundreds of genes. One of the earliest and highest levels of induction is displayed by a previously uncharacterized gene that we have termed X-ray induced 1 (XRI1). Analysis of plants carrying a null xri1 allele revealed two distinct requirements for this gene in plant fertility. XRI1 was important for the post-meiotic stages of pollen development, leading to inviability of xri− pollen and abnormal segregation of the mutant allele in heterozygous xri1+/− plants. In addition, XRI1 was essential for male and female meiosis, as indicated by the complete sterility of homozygous xri1 mutants due to extensive chromosome fragmentation visible in meiocytes. Abolition of programmed DNA double-strand breaks in a spo11-1 mutant background failed to rescue the DNA fragmentation of xri1 mutants, suggesting that XRI1 functions at an earlier stage than SPO11-1 does. Yeast two-hybrid studies identified an interaction between XRI1 and a novel component of the Arabidopsis MND1/AHP2 complex, indicating possible requirements for XRI1 in meiotic DNA repair.
!~RES~! Microarray analysis of Arabidopsis seedlings exposed to gamma rays identified a number of uncharacterized genes that were upregulated in response to DNA damage and had potential roles in DNA repair, DNA damage signalling and cell-cycle control (CITATION). In the present study, we aimed to elucidate the molecular function of a gene that displays rapid and high transcriptional induction in response to X-rays, X-RAY INDUCED 1 (XRI1, AGI code At5g48720). High-throughput cDNA cloning identified an 801 bp XRI1 coding sequence (Genbank accession number BT020567) and a 1066 bp XRI1 cDNA clone that included two untranslated 5′ exons (Genbank accession number NM_124249) (Figure 1a) (CITATION). However, we were unable to detect the 1066 bp XRI1 transcript in RT-PCR experiments despite using similar source materials, suggesting that the transcript was expressed at very low levels, is only expressed in very specific growth conditions, or represents an artefact. The predominant transcript in our studies was initiated from an upstream transcriptional start site relative to XRI1 accession BT020567 (Figure 1a). The resulting 1229 bp cDNA, identified using 5′ and 3′ RACE PCR, had a single untranslated first exon followed by a second exon upstream of XRI1 accession BT020567, and encoded a protein of 300 amino acids with no significant sequence similarity beyond the plant kingdom (Table S1). The primary sequence contained a consensus nuclear localization sequence (KRRR), which is conserved between the XRI1-like sequences identified in rice and Arabidopsis (Figure 1c). These sequences showed weak but significant sequence similarity to XRI1 (At2g01990 expect value 10−10; At1g14630 expect value 10−7). However, the sequence similarity was largely confined to the C-terminal domains of these proteins, and there was no evidence of X-ray induction of either the At2g01990 or At1g14630 transcripts. The nuclear localization of XRI1 was confirmed using confocal analysis of a GFP–XRI1 fusion protein expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and visualized in root tips of 10-day-old seedlings (Figure 2a). GFP fluorescence was localized exclusively to the nucleus, with evidence for nucleolar exclusion in some cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The induction of XRI1 by ionizing radiation (IR) was further characterized using real-time RT-PCR analysis. Arabidopsis seedlings were subjected to 10 Gy X-rays, and XRI1 transcript levels were analysed in the period following irradiation. Whilst XRI1 accession BT020567 was undetectable, the longer XRI1 transcript was induced in response to X-rays (Figure 2b). The X-ray-induced transcriptional response was rapid, with transcript levels increasing after 20 min and peaking at 1–2 h post-irradiation at levels approximately 55-fold greater than in untreated plants, before declining over the next few hours. This induction was completely dependent on ATM, as atatm-3 mutants fail to display a significant increase in XRI1 transcript levels after irradiation (Figure 2b) (CITATION; CITATION). The pattern of XRI1 induction closely resembled that of AtRAD51, and inspection of the publicly available microarray data (CITATION) indicated that this response was specific to reagents that cause DSBs, rather than a generic stress response (data not shown). Analysis of the sequence-tagged T-DNA mutant database identified a line in the GABI-KAT collection (CITATION) that contains a T-DNA in the third exon of the XRI1 gene (Figure 3a). The T-DNA insertion used to generate these lines carries a CaMV 35S promoter adjacent to the right border for use in activation tagging experiments (Figure 3b). This led to the possibility that the 3′ end of the XRI1 transcript might be overexpressed in this line. However, RT-PCR analysis of homozygous xri1-1 mutants did not detect XRI1 expression downstream of the insertion site. PCR and sequence analysis revealed a 432 bp truncation of the T-DNA right border that resulted in deletion of most of the 537 bp CaMV 35S promoter (Figure 3b), explaining the absence of ectopically expressed 3′XRI1 transcript in this line. Re-introduction of the wild-type XRI1 gene into the xri1-1 mutant background restored expression of XRI1 (Figure 3c), and complemented the xri1-1 mutant phenotypes (Figures 4 and 5). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Southern analysis indicated that xri1-1 plants contain a single T-DNA insertion at a single locus, which would be expected to segregate 1:2:1 homozygous mutant:heterozygous:wild-type (data not shown). However, the observed segregation, both in terms of the sulphadiazine resistance gene and PCR genotyping, was found to be 0.11:1.19:1 (n = 223). This ratio is closer to 0:1:1 homozygous mutant:heterozygous:wild-type, as would result from loss of the mutant allele through either the male or female germline. Siliques from heterozygous plants contained a substantial number of aborted embryos, leading to a reduction in the number of seeds from a mean of 59.5 ± 0.4 per silique in wild-type plants to 31.4 ± 5.1 in xri1-1+/− plants (Figure 4a,b). Arabidopsis seed development requires a double fertilization event to form a viable embryo and endosperm tissue. Arabidopsis pollen contains two generative cells, one of which fertilizes the egg cell to form the zygote, whereas the second fertilizes the central cell of the ovule leading to endosperm development. Analysis of pollen from xri1-1+/− plants revealed that loss of the mutant allele was associated with defects in pollen development. DAPI staining revealed that 48.7% of pollen was arrested at the bicellular stage, with a vegetative cell nucleus but only a single generative cell nucleus rather than the two generative cell nuclei observed in both wild-type and the remaining half of the xri1-1+/− pollen (Figure 4c). These levels of bicellular pollen were far greater than those observed in wild-type plants (3.3%). Alexander staining suggested that the bicellular pollen was viable, but the presence of a single generative cell nucleus means that xri1-1− pollen would be incapable of double fertilization, leading to embryo lethality and failure to transmit the xri1-1 allele. Bicellular pollen is also observed in plants that are heterozygous for a mutation in the Arabidopsis cdc2 homologue CDKA;1, and the ratio of tricellular to bicellular pollen in the cdka-1+/− heterozygote (51.3% tricellular, 48.7% bicellular) is comparable to that in xri1-1+/− (CITATION). As observed with cdka;1 mutants, the xri-1+/− pollen defect was not fully penetrant; 1 in 20 seedlings from an xri1-1+/− plant were homozygous for the xri1-1 allele, indicating that approximately 10% of the xri1-1 pollen are tricellular and capable of producing viable embryos by double fertilization. The leaky nature of the xri1-1 phenotype in the male gametophyte is consistent with residual levels of XRI1 protein or transcript being sufficient to permit normal pollen development in approximately 10% of haploid mutants. Heterozygous xri1-1+/− plants that were homozygous for the complementation construct carrying the wild-type XRI1 gene displayed normal Mendelian inheritance of the mutant xri1-1 allele, and pollen was largely tricellular as seen in wild-type anthers (Figure 4d). This complementation demonstrated that the inviability of pollen and embryo abortion in xri1-1 heterozygotes originated from lack of a functional XRI1 gene in the developing male gametophyte. These results point to an essential role for XRI1 in pollen development. Transmission of the xri1-1 allele was not affected in the female germline, as determined by segregation of the allele and crossing experiments. Using wild-type pollen to fertilize xri1 heterozygotes resulted in a ratio of wild-type to heterozygous mutant progeny of 1:0.92 (n = 238), which is not significantly different from the expected ratio of 1:1 (χ2 test, P > 0.05). This could reflect either a specific requirement for XRI1 in male gametogenesis, or differences in male and female gametophyte development (CITATION). On completion of meiosis in pollen mother cells, haploid spores undergo a mitotic division to produce the vegetative cell nucleus and a generative cell nucleus. Before the second mitotic division, the generative cell nucleus undergoes cellularization, whereby it is physically isolated from the surrounding vegetative cell and contains very little cytoplasm (CITATION). This is in contrast to female gametogenesis, in which cellularization occurs at completion of the mitotic divisions (CITATION). Analysis of xri1-1 mutants is consistent with a requirement for de novo XRI1 expression for mitotic division of the generative cell nucleus and the development of mature tricellular pollen grains. Homozygous xri1-1 mutants were indistinguishable from wild-type plants during germination, seedling establishment and subsequent vegetative growth up to the point of flowering. However, in comparison to wild-type plants, xri1-1 displayed prolonged flowering and developed very short siliques that were devoid of seeds (Figure 5a,b). The sterility of xri1-1 null mutants was complemented by the wild-type XRI1 gene, resulting in wild-type levels of seeds (58.8 ± 6.2 per silique) in these lines (Figure 4a). The nature of the sterility of homozygous xri1-1 mutants was further analysed by out-crossing. Pollen from wild-type plants was unable to fertilize xri1-1 mutants. This indicates an essential role for XRI1 in female gametogenesis, with xri1-1 plants unable to produce viable ovules. Similarly, homozygous xri1-1 mutant pollen was unable to fertilize wild-type plants in out-crossing experiments. Male sterility is consistent with the requirement for XRI1 in male gametogenesis as observed in heterozygous xri1-1+/− plants. Inspection of anthers found that xri1-1 mutants released no mature pollen grains, in contrast to xri1-1+/− and wild-type plants (Figure 5c). Alexander staining of anthers revealed that pollen from homozygous xri1-1 plants was non-viable, staining green in comparison to the strong purple stain of wild-type pollen (Figure 5d). Although the bicellular pollen of xri1-1+/− appears to be viable by Alexander staining, there remains the possibility that pollen development is more severely affected in homozygous mutants where XRI1 is absent as opposed to the reduced levels found in xri1-1+/− plants. Alternatively, underlying meiotic defects in xri1-1 plants could be responsible for pollen inviability in Alexander staining. These two possibilities (meiotic failure versus defects later in gametophyte development) could also apply to the observed female sterility, even though female gametophyte development is unaffected in heterozygous plants. This is because the defects observed in male gametogenesis may be attributed to the early cellularization of pollen cells, whereas female levels of XRI1 could be sufficient for completion of embryo sac development in the heterozygous xri1-1+/− background. The presence of meiotic defects in xri1-1 plants was therefore investigated by cytological analysis of megaspore mother cells and pollen mother cells. Wild-type meiosis in pollen mother cells consists of two rounds of chromosome segregation, preceded by a single S phase, which results in haploid meiotic products (Figure 6a–f). During prophase I, homologous chromosomes align, synapse and recombine before they are separated in anaphase I (meiosis I). The sister chromatid products of DNA replication are separated in the second round of division (meiosis II). Prophase I is sub-divided into several stages. During leptotene, the chromosomes start to condense and appear as thin thread-like structures (Figure 6a,b). This stage is followed by zygotene, with chromosomes further condensing and partial pairing between homologues. In pachytene, pairing of homologous chromosomes is complete and synapsis is established (Figure 6c). At the diakinesis stage of prophase I, wild-type chromosomes are identified as pairs of highly condensed chromosome bivalents held together by chiasmata (crossovers). At metaphase I, the five bivalents are aligned on the equator prior to segregation of the homologous chromosomes to the poles (Figure 6d). During metaphase II (Figure 6e), the chromosomes align and the sister chromatids are separated at anaphase II. Finally, tetrads consisting of four sets of five chromatids are seen, resulting from completion of the second round of meiotic segregation (Figure 6f). [[FIGURE]] The progression of male meiosis was severely impaired in homozygous xri1-1 mutants (Figure 6g–l) The meiocytes at early leptotene/leptotene (Figure 6g,h) appeared to be normal. Homozygous xri1-1 meiocytes that had progressed further through prophase I, as indicated by the condensation of the chromosomes, appeared to fail to synapse (Figure 6i). We did not see any equivalent stages of late prophase or metaphase I chromosomes, but observed meiocytes at anaphase I (Figure 6j) and anaphase II (Figure 6k) that displayed extensive fragmentation, and, on the completion of meiosis, xri1-1 formed polyads (Figure 6l) that contained unequal amounts of fragmented chromosomal material. These results identified the cause of male sterility in homozygous xri1-1 mutants as a severe disruption of meiosis. To determine whether female meiosis was disrupted as observed for male meiosis, cytological analysis was performed on megaspore mother cells. Embryo sac mother cells prepared from homozygous xri1-1 mutants were similar in appearance at leptotene to wild-type, with chromosomes visible as unsynapsed threads with areas of bright DAPI staining corresponding to the centromeres and nucleolar organizing regions. No further wild-type-like stages of prophase I were identified in the xri1-1 mutants. Instead the embryo sac mother cells that had progressed further through prophase I had chromosomes that had a ‘clumped’ appearance and did not condense to form the same thread-like structures observed in wild-type spreads. There was no evidence of synapsis in xri1-1 female meiosis, and the meiocytes displayed extensive chromosome fragmentation (data not shown). These results of cytological analysis of meiosis of embryo sac mother cells confirmed that female sterility in homozygous xri1-1 mutants is due to an early defect in female meiosis that is similar to that of male meiosis. Programmed DSBs are induced early in meiosis by SPO11-1/SPO11-2 proteins (CITATION; CITATION). These DSBs form a substrate for the HR-mediated repair that is required for chromosome pairing during prophase I. Mutants in HR factors show extensive chromosome fragmentation resulting from an inability to repair SPO11-induced DSBs. This is illustrated by the fact that mutations in SPO11-1 are epistatic to mutations in genes needed for HR repair (e.g. atrad51), with atrad51 spo11-1 double mutants having spo11-1 levels of fertility. The rescue of atrad51 by spo11-1 is confirmed at the cytological level, with atrad51 spo11-1 double mutants losing the chromosome fragmentation observed in atrad51 mutants (CITATION). To test whether the fragmentation observed in homozygous xri1-1 mutants was due to failure to repair SPO11-induced DSBs, we analysed the progression of male meiosis in an xri1-1 spo11-1 double mutant. Meiosis in spo11-1 pollen mother cells (Figure 7a–h) appeared similar to that in wild-type plants during early prophase I, although synapsed cells were not seen (Figure 7a–c). At metaphase I (Figure 7d), the chromosomes were always seen as ten univalents, and segregated unevenly at anaphase I leading to unbalanced tetrads (Figure 7f). Cytological analysis of meiotic progression in spo11-1-1xri1-1 (Figure 7g–l) revealed that double mutant pollen mother cells closely resembled those seen during meiosis of homozygous xri1-1 single mutants. The failure of the spo11-1-1 mutation to rescue xri1-1 meiotic chromosome fragmentation was also reflected in the complete sterility of spo11-1-1 xri1-1 double mutants compared to spo11-1-1 mutants, which produce approximately two seeds per silique (CITATION), and the absence of pollen in spo11-1-1 xri1-1 anthers, which was not observed in spo11-1-1 plants (Figure 5c). [[FIGURE]] These results illustrate that meiosis is severely disrupted in xri1-1 mutants. The failure of the spo11-1-1 mutation to rescue the chromosome fragmentation suggests that the function of XRI1 may be related to preventing the accumulation of DSBs that arise during pre-meiotic DNA replication. The observations do not exclude the possibility that XRI1 has an additional role during subsequent meiotic DNA repair, a scenario consistent with the physical interaction of XRI1 with a novel component of the MND1/HOP2 recombination complex (see below). Pre-meiotic S phase is a specialized instance of DNA replication, and has a longer duration than mitotic S phase (CITATION). While many of the components of the DNA replication machinery are the same as those of mitotic cells, meiosis-specific factors are also required, which in plants includes the DNA replication factors CDC45 and MEI1; disruption of CDC45 or MEI1 in Arabidopsis results in SPO11-independent DNA fragmentation and sterility, indicating a non-redundant role in pre-meiotic S phase (CITATION; CITATION). The MEI1 protein shows sequence similarity to yeast CUT5/DPB11, which is required in the initiation of DNA replication (CITATION; CITATION) and the human homologue TOPBP1. Altering the activities of CDC45 or DPB11 in yeast was sufficient to overcome the requirement for CDK activity to initiate DNA replication (CITATION). Interestingly, DPB11 (and potentially MEI1) is also required for HR-mediated repair of DNA damage (CITATION; CITATION). To further characterize the potential roles of XRI1 in DNA replication and/or repair, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with the C-terminal region of XRI1, as full-length XRI1 had intrinsic transcriptional activation activity. Several putative interactors were identified and further tested to verify the yeast two-hybrid results. Of these, one was confirmed by several additional approaches (below), and encoded a protein previously identified in another yeast two-hybrid screen as a protein partner of the meiotic HR factor AtMND1 (Figure 8a). AtMND1-interacting protein 1 (MIP1, At1g32530) has a conserved structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) domain, typical of chromosome segregation ATPases (CITATION), and a C-terminal RING finger domain, implicated in protein–protein interactions (Figure S1). The AtMND1 interaction screen identified a MIP1 fragment towards the C-terminal region (498–589) as sufficient for AtMND1 binding. This region of MIP also interacted with AHP2 (the Arabidopsis HOP2 homologue), but not with the GAL4 DNA binding domain alone (Figure 8a). These results suggest that MIP1 forms multiple interactions with the AHP2/AtMND1 complex in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal domain (amino acids 513–711) of MIP1 was sufficient for interaction with XRI1. This region included the RING finger domain and overlapped with the AHP2/AtMND1 interaction domain. Further analysis of XRI1 identified the C-terminal 26 amino acids as sufficient for MIP1 interaction in yeast two-hybrid analysis (Figure 8b). This is the most highly conserved region shared between the three XRI1-like sequences found in Arabidopsis and the two found in rice. Full-length XRI1, expressed as a GAL4 activation domain (AD) fusion, failed to interact with an MIP1–GAL4 DNA binding domain (DB) fusion in yeast two-hybrid analysis, which may reflect conformational or steric constraints that prevent binding of the proteins in this orientation. In vitro studies verified the interactions between MIP1 and both MND1 and XRI1. MND1 and XRI1 bound to MIP1-coated beads, with only trace levels of MND1 binding to Escherichia coli lysate-coated control beads (Figure 8c). Similarly, full-length MIP1 and its C-terminal region bound to MND1- or XRI1-coated beads, but not to controls (Figure 8d). Interaction between XRI1 and MIP was also observed in co-immunoprecipitation experiments using either in vitro translated proteins or extracts of yeast expressing XRI1–GAL4DB and either MIP1–GAL4AD or GAL4AD alone (Figure S2). These data provide further evidence that XRI1 interacts with MIP, a protein that binds MND1, which is required for meiotic HR in eukaryotes. In mitotic cells, HR is mediated by the conserved RAD52 epistasis group that was first characterized in yeast (CITATION). However, HR-mediated repair in plants may differ from that of yeast, as AtMND1 may be involved in DNA repair in vegetative tissues (CITATION; CITATION). HR has multiple roles during DNA replication as it is required for the repair of collapsed replication forks and in post-replication repair pathways (CITATION; CITATION). The links between HR and DNA replication provide an explanation for the expression patterns and mutant phenotypes of Arabidopsis XRI1. A role for XRI1 in DNA replication is indicated by the SPO11-1-independent chromosome fragmentation in meiocytes that is displayed by plants deficient in XRI1, while X-ray induction of XRI1 and interaction with the AtMND1-interacting protein indicate a connection with HR. XRI1 therefore provides a novel link between DNA replication and repair in plants, and, like CDKA;1, is an essential requirement for meiosis and pollen mitosis.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants were raised in growth chambers under 70% humidity, with 16 h light/8 h dark cycles at 20°C. Arabidopsis line 075E02 was obtained from GABI-KAT (CITATION), and Col-0 and atatm-3 mutants (SALK_089805) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation was performed as described previously (CITATION). Mutant and wild-type pollen mother cells were examined by fluorescence microscopy in DAPI-stained spreads as described by CITATION. Female meiosis was examined in DAPI-stained spreads of embryo sac mother cells as described by CITATION. DNA procedures and bacterial manipulations used established protocols (CITATION). RNA was isolated from above-ground tissues of flowering Arabidopsis using the SV total RNA isolation kit (Promega; http://www.promega.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. XRI1 was cloned by RT-PCR using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen; http://www.invitrogen.com/) for cDNA synthesis followed by amplification using iPROOF (Bio-Rad; http://www.bio-rad.com/). RACE PCR was performed using a FirstChoice RNA ligase-mediated RACE kit (Ambion, http://www.ambion.com), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. PCR products were cloned using a TOPO-TA cloning kit and E. coli TOP10 cells (Invitrogen), and plasmid DNA was prepared using spin columns (Qiagen; http://www.qiagen.com/) prior to fluorescent dye-terminator DNA sequencing (Perkin Elmer, http://www.perkinelmer.com). To determine the subcellular localization of XRI1, the XRI1 cDNA was cloned into pCB1300 containing soluble modified red-shifted (smrs)–GFP (CITATION) under the control of the 35S promoter to create XRI1–smrs–GFP, and used for Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation. Confocal analysis for detection of GFP fluorescence was performed as described previously (CITATION). Real-time PCR analysis was performed on an iCycler thermocycler (Bio-Rad) using iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) and primers At5g48720_f (GCTACCTGATGACTTAAACTTTGGTTC) and At5g48720_r (CATTTGGAGAAGATCGAGTCACAG) for XRI1, and qPCR_ACTf (CTCAGGTATCGCTGACCGTATGAG) and qPCR_ACTr (CTTGGAGATCCACATCTGCTGGAATG) for ACTIN2 (At1g49240). AtRAD51 (At5G20850) was amplified using primers rad51RTf (GTTCTTGAGAAGTCTTCAAGAAGTTAG) and rad51RTr (GCTGAACCATCTACTTGCGCAACTAC). The XRI1 and RAD51 transcript levels were normalized against those for ACTIN2. Complementation of the xri1-1 mutation was performed using a genomic clone of chromosome 5 region 19774598–19779380. The complementation construct consisted of a 4782 bp XbaI/SpeI fragment of BAC clone JAtY55H08 cloned into the XbaI site of the pCB1300 binary vector, and this was used to transform heterozygous xri1-1 plants according to standard protocols (CITATION; CITATION). Protein expression and interaction studies were performed as described previously (CITATION). Full-length AtMND1 and MIP1 cDNAs were cloned into separate pET32EkLIC vectors (Novagen, http://www.merckbiosciences.co.uk) and XRI1 was cloned into pET30EkLIC, generating C-terminal 6× His-tagged proteins. These constructs were used to transform aliquots of E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS. Expression was induced using 1 mm IPTG (Promega) once cells had reached an absorbance at 600 nm of 0.4, and growth at 37°C was continued for a further 3 h. Bacteria were recovered by centrifugation at 5000 g for 10 min at 22°C, re-suspended in Bugbuster (Novagen), and lysed by freezing and thawing. Nucleic acids were removed by benzonase treatment (25 U ml−1, Novagen) at 37°C for 15 min, and the extract was cleared by centrifugation at 25 000 g for 30 min at 4°C. As XRI1 and MND1 were soluble, lysate containing the His-tagged proteins [or from untransformed BL21(DE3) controls] was applied to 20 μl of nickel-coated paramagnetic beads (Promega), and washed five times for 1 min with 1 ml fresh binding buffer (100 mm HEPES pH 7.4, 200 mm NaCl, 100 mm imidazole, 0.1% v/v Triton X-100), then resuspended in 100 μl binding buffer and used immediately for in vitro interaction studies. MIP1 was insoluble under various induction conditions, and on-bead renaturation was therefore used. Following the same induction protocol as for XRI1 and MND1, pelleted MIP1 was solubilized in denaturing buffer (100 mm HEPES pH 7.4, 8 m urea, 200 mm NaCl, 10 mm imidazole, 0.1% Triton X-100), and centrifuged at 25 000 g for 10 min at 25°C to remove particulates. The supernatant was applied to 20 μl paramagnetic beads (Promega), washed five times in denaturing buffer, and resuspended in 100 μl denaturing buffer. Renaturation buffer (100 mm HEPES pH 7.4, 200 mm NaCl, 10 mm imidazole, 0.1% Triton X-100) was added slowly to the beads to reduce the urea content to 0.5 m, at which point the beads were recovered and equilibrated with binding buffer as described above. Two-hybrid analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). XRI1 cDNA encoding amino acid residues 175–300 was cloned into plasmid pGBKT7 to create a GAL4DB fusion protein for use in yeast two-hybrid screening. RNA was isolated from two-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings 2 h after exposure to 10 Gy X-rays, and mixed with an equal quantity of RNA isolated from buds and flowers at various stages of development. RT-PCR and in vivo cloning were used to generate an activation domain library and perform the library screening using the Matchmaker kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech; http://www.clontech.com/). Transformants were plated directly onto selective media lacking tryptophan, leucine and histidine, and supplemented with 2.5 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. Colonies growing after one week were re-plated onto selective media that also lacked adenine, before analysis by PCR and sequencing. Interactions were verified by plasmid isolation and re-transformation into the yeast reporter strain AH109 (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1) as described previously (CITATION). Alexander staining was performed on anthers according to published protocols (CITATION). DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) staining of pollen grains was performed as described by CITATION, and viewed on a Zeiss LSM 510 META Axiovert 200M inverted confocal microscope. Preparation of embryo sac and pollen mother cells was as described previously (CITATION), except cytohelicase was omitted from the digestion mix and the digestion time was extended to 75 min.
