!~ABS~! In plants, sterols play fundamental roles as membrane constituents in the biosynthesis of steroid hormones, and act as precursors for cell wall deposition. Sterols are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), but mainly accumulate in the plasma membrane. How sterols are trafficked in plant cells is largely unknown. In non-plant systems, oxysterol-binding proteins have been involved in sterol trafficking and homeostasis. There are at least twelve homologs of oxysterol-binding proteins in the Arabidopsis genome, but the biology of these proteins remains for the most part obscure. Here, we report our analysis of the targeting requirements and the sterol-binding properties of a small Arabidopsis oxysterol-binding protein, ORP3a. We have determined that ORP3a is a bona fide sterol-binding protein with sitosterol-binding properties. Live-cell imaging analyses revealed that ORP3a is localized at the ER, and that binding to this organelle depends on a direct interaction with PVA12, a member of the largely uncharacterized VAP33 family of plant proteins. Molecular modeling analyses and site-directed mutagenesis led to the identification of a novel protein domain that is responsible for the PVA12–ORP3a interaction. Disruption of the integrity of this domain caused redistribution of ORP3a to the Golgi apparatus, suggesting that ORP3a may cycle between the ER and the Golgi. These results represent new insights into the biology of sterol-binding proteins in plant cells, and elucidate a hitherto unknown relationship between members of oxysterol-binding protein and VAP33 families of plant proteins in the early plant secretory pathway.
!~RES~! To determine the in vivo localization of PVA12, we followed the distribution of a fluorescent-tagged Venus fusion protein (YFP-PVA12) in plant cells by laser scanning confocal microscopy. We observed that YFP-PVA12 was distributed to the ER, and confirmed this finding in co-expression analyses with the known ER marker calnexin-GFP (CX-GFP; CITATION) (Figure 1a). These data support our earlier proteomic analyses that PVA12 is an ER protein (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To identify putative PVA12 interactors, we used gene transcript co-response analyses. These analyses are based on the concept that genes with similar expression profiles are more likely to encode functionally interacting proteins than are random pairs (CITATION). This approach has been successfully used to identify networks of genes involved in linked processes (CITATION; CITATION). We hypothesized that genes with products exhibiting biological activity with direct relevance to the biology of PVA12 significantly co-respond with the PVA12 gene. To proceed with this approach, we used the Correlation Database Module of CSB.DB (CITATION). This database has made the identification of new components in various biological processes possible, including cell wall biosynthesis (CITATION), unfolded protein response (CITATION) and the brassinosteroid pathway (CITATION). We queried the CSB database to analyze the co-response profile of PVA12, and found that the gene encoding a putative oxysterol binding protein, ORP3a, showed a highly significant correlation with PVA12 (Table S1). To confirm experimentally that PVA12 interacts with ORP3a, we developed a glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography assay, based on the interaction of a recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-PVA12 with a cerulean fluorescent protein (CFP) fusion of ORP3a (ORP3a-CFP), expressed in tobacco leaves (Figure 1b). The GST fusion contained the entire cytosolic domain of PVA12, but excluded the transmembrane domain to facilitate recombinant protein production. Leaf extracts were loaded onto glutathione-agarose resin for western blot analyses on the column eluates with anti-GFP serum. We found that ORP3a interacted with recombinant GST-PVA12 (Figure 1b, lane 2), but not with GST alone (Figure 1b, lane 1) or with the resin (Figure 1b, lane 3). Given the PVA12–ORP3a interaction, we hypothesized that ORP3a is localized in the ER with PVA12 (Figure 1a). Consistent with this hypothesis, live-cell imaging of ORP3a-CFP showed that this fusion was distributed to the ER, as demonstrated in cells co-expressing the ER luminal marker (ssYFP-HDEL; CITATION; Figure 2b) or YFP-PVA12 (Figure 2c). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that PVA12 and ORP3a interact in vivo, we adopted a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis based on the split-YFP system, which has proven successful in revealing protein–protein interactions in plant cells and other systems (CITATION). In BiFC analyses, the N-terminus half of YFP (nYFP) is fused to a Protein and the C-terminus half of YFP (cYFP) is fused to a putative interacting partner. Protein–protein interactions are confirmed by detection of a YFP signal in cells co-expressing interacting fusions, as the N- and C-terminal halves come into close proximity with each other to form an almost irreversibly intact fluorochrome (CITATION). To carry out the BiFC analysis, we spliced nYFP to the N-terminus of PVA12 (nYFP-PVA12) and cYFP to the C-terminus of ORP3a (ORP3a-cYFP). Confocal microscopy analyses showed YFP signal in cells co-expressing nYFP-PVA12 and ORP3a-cYFP (Figure 3a). The absence of YFP signal in cells transformed either with nYFP-PVA12 or ORP3a-cYFP alone, or of these fusions with either the N-terminal half or C-terminal half of YFP (Figure S1), indicate that the YFP signal resulted from the PVA12–ORP3a interaction, rather than the spontaneous fluorescence of the split-YFPs or the interaction of the two cytosolic YFP halves with PVA12 or ORP3a fusions. These data support our GST-pull-down results that PVA12 and ORP3a form an interacting pair (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the interaction between PVA12 and ORP3a was direct, we produced recombinant GST-PVA12 and His6-ORP3a fusions, and tested whether ORP3a and PVA12 could interact with each other in vitro (Figure 4). We loaded extracts of Escherichia coli expressing a His6-ORP3a onto glutathione columns, which had been pre-loaded with either GST alone or GST-PVA12, and had been pre-washed of unbound proteins. Proteins were then eluted, and immunoblot analysis of the eluates showed that His6-ORP3a interacted specifically with GST-PVA12 (Figure 4a, lane 3), as the fusion was not found in the eluates of columns pre-loaded with GST (Figure 4a, lane 2) or resin alone (Figure 4a, lane 1). These results not only support the interaction results gathered from the GST pull-down from leaf extracts (Figure 1b) and the BiFC assay (Figure 3a), but also indicate that PVA12 and ORP3a interact directly. [[FIGURE]] One prediction analysis (Table S1) and three independent experimental approaches (Figures 1b, 3a, and 4a) indicated that PVA12 and ORP3a form an interacting pair. Mammalian and yeast VAPs interact with ORPs via an FFAT motif, i.e. two phenylalanine residues embedded in an acidic tract (consensus sequence, EFFDAxE; CITATION). The Arabidopsis ORP3a does not have an FFAT motif (Figure 2a). Similarly, such a motif does not appear in any Arabidopsis ORPs (Figure S2A). However, the N-terminus of ORP3a, which contains the sterol-binding region, and its C-terminus are homologous with a number of proteins of which the structure is known. Therefore, to identify a region of ORP3a that would interact with PVA12, we generated a molecular model of docked structures of the PVA12 and ORP3a motif complex using the crystal structures of homologous proteins as a template. We followed modeling procedures that we have successfully used before to establish interactions between other proteins (CITATION; CITATION). To produce a molecular model for the PVA12–ORP3a complex, we first generated models for each individual protein, and then docked them (see Experimental procedures). The final minimized structure for the complex is shown in Figure S3. This approach enabled us to see that the tryptophan (W398), phenylalanine (F399), aspartate (D400) and glutamate (E401 and E403) residues of ORP3a may serve as contact sites for PVA12. To confirm experimentally that these residues were indeed important for a PVA12–ORP3a interaction, we mutated the ORP3a residues 398–WFDETE–403 (hereafter referred to as the WFDE region or domain, for simplicity) containing the amino acid residues that could contact PVA12, to AAGGTG (ORP3a398AAGGTG403). An in vitro pull-down assay with recombinant GST-PVA12 and a His6-tagged ORP3a398AAGGTG403 (His6-ORP3a398AAGGTG403) was then conducted using wild-type His6-ORP3a as a control, as detailed above (also see Experimental procedures). Western blot analysis of column eluates using anti-His serum revealed that although wild-type His6-ORP3a interacted with GST-PVA12 (Figure 4a, lanes 3 and 6; Figure 4c, lane 2), His6-ORP3a398AAGGTG403 did not (Figure 4c, lane 4). These differences were reinforced by the evidence that we loaded wild-type ORP3a on the column in a similar quantity to the mutant (Figure 4b, 10% input); furthermore, similar amounts of GST-PVA12 were in the columns, where either the wild-type ORP3a or its mutant were loaded (Figure 4c, lanes 6 and 8). Finally, circular dichroism spectra of both the wild type and the ORP3a398AAGGTG403 mutant between 200 and 260 nm showed that the mutations of the WFDE region did not significantly alter the secondary structure of ORP3a (Figure 5). Therefore, our results indicate that disruption of the PVA12–ORP3a398AAGGTG403 interaction is specific to the mutations of the WFDE region, rather than resulting from secondary effects of the mutations on protein folding. [[FIGURE]] We then hypothesized that if the interaction of PVA12 with ORP3a was essential for the localization of ORP3a to the ER, a disruption of such an interaction would lead to a redistribution of the ORP3a mutant. To test this hypothesis, we expressed ORP3a398AAGGTG403 as a cerulean fluorescent protein fusion (ORP3a398AAGGTG403-CFP) in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that ORP3a398AAGGTG403-CFP was not distributed on the ER, but to punctate structures and the cytosol (Figure 6a), in marked contrast with the distribution of wild-type ORP3a (Figure 2b,c). The punctate structures were identified as Golgi bodies in co-expression analyses of ORP3a398AAGGTG403-CFP with the known ER and Golgi marker, ERD2-GFP (CITATION) (Figure 6b). The lack of an interaction of the ORP3a398AAGGTG403 mutant and PVA12 was confirmed in vivo with BiFC analyses, based on co-expression of ORP3a398AAGGTG403-cYFP and nYFP-PVA12 (Figures 3b). Taken together, these data confirm that a productive interaction of PVA12 with ORP3a mediated by the WFDE domain is necessary for ER targeting of this protein, and that PVA12 is the receptor of ORP3a on the ER. Furthermore, these data also show that the lack of interaction of mutant ORP3a398AAGGTG403 with PVA12 results in a redistribution of the protein from the ER to the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] We next sought to further characterize the requirements for the PVA12–ORP3a interaction. As we know of no data on the sterol-binding properties of plant oxysterol-binding proteins, we first aimed to determine whether ORP3a was indeed capable of an interaction with sterols, and whether the sterol-binding properties of ORP3a could affect the interaction with PVA12. To determine whether ORP3a has an affinity for sterols, we performed three different sterol-binding assays (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). First, we incubated recombinant purified His6-ORP3a with liposomes containing stigmasterol and sitosterol, which are known to be present in plants (CITATION), or ergosterol. Western blot analysis of the pellets with anti-His serum showed an association of ORP3a with sitosterol-containing liposomes (Figure 7a, upper panel). Second, we measured the binding activity of ORP3a in conditions of increasing concentration of [H3]β-sitosterol (Figure 7b), and found that the ORP3a-sitosterol binding increased with the increasing concentration of sterol in the reaction tubes. Both tests suggested that an interaction of ORP3a with sitosterol takes place. To further dissect such an interaction, we carried out an additional sterol-binding assay based on the ORP3a extraction of radiolabeled sterols from liposomes. As shown in Figure 7c, ORP3a was capable of extracting [H3]β-sitosterol from liposomes, further confirming that it is a bona fide sterol-binding protein. [[FIGURE]] ORP3a contains a conserved OSBP signature (Figures 2a and S2). The crystal structure of the yeast ORP, OSH4, in complex with sterols (PDB#1ZHT) shows that the two conserved proline and histidine residues of such a signature allow the formation of a gate that favors the entrance of the sterol in a sterol-binding pocket within the protein. To establish whether the sterol-binding properties of ORP3a depend on such a signature motif, we mutated the conserved proline residues to alanine residues. Such mutations did not affect the overall protein secondary structure, as demonstrated by CD spectroscopy analyses (Figure 5). To ensure that the resulting mutant (named ORP3a172AA173) was unable to bind sterols, we carried out the sterol-binding assays as detailed above. We found that the ORP3a172AA173 did not bind sterols (Figure 7a,b). This was in clear contrast with the similar ability of the wild type and ORP3a398AAGGTG403 mutant to bind sterol (P < 0.01; Figure 7b). Taken together, these data confirm that ORP3a is a sterol-binding protein, and that its interaction with sterols depends on the integrity of residues that are conserved with non-plant ORPs. We next aimed to test whether the ORP3a–PVA12 interaction was dependent on the ability of ORP3a to bind sterols. To do so, we used an in vitro GST pull-down assay with a recombinant His6-ORP3a172AA173 fusion and GST-PVA12. Results revealed that ORP3a172AA173 was capable of interacting with PVA12 to a similar extent as the wild-type protein (Figure 7d). An ORP3a172AA173–PVA12 interaction was also confirmed in vivo using BiFC analyses based on the co-infiltration of ORP3a172AA173-cYFP and nYFP-PVA12 fusions (Figure 3c). Together, these results suggest that the interaction of PVA12 with ORP3a is probably not regulated by the ability of ORP3a to bind sterols. We next wanted to establish whether a reduced ability of ORP3a172AA173 to bind sterols would affect its localization. We hypothesized that it would not, because PVA12 was capable of interacting with the mutant (Figures 3 and 7). To test this hypothesis, we generated a CFP fusion to ORP3a172AA173 (ORP3a172AA173-CFP), and expressed it in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. We found that the protein was distributed to the ER (Figure 8), similarly to the wild-type (Figure 2). This suggests that at steady state, ORP3a resides on the ER unless the interaction with its ER receptor, PVA12, is disrupted. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used for subcloning. The fluorescent proteins used in this study were based on fusions with mGFP5 (CITATION), Venus YFP and cerulean CFP (CITATION). The spectral properties of mGFP5 allow efficient spectral separation from YFP (CITATION). The coding sequence of ORP3a (AGI: At5 g02100) was obtained from ABRC (http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/~plantbio/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm), and was then subcloned upstream of CFP in the binary vector pVKH18En6 (CITATION). cDNA of PVA12 (AGI: At2 g45140) was obtained as an ABRC clone and fused to the N terminus of a YFP in the binary vector pVKH18En6. For BiFC experiments, nYFP (aa 1–154) and cYFP (aa 155–239) replaced YFP and CFP in the YFP-PVA12 and ORP3a-CFP, respectively. Cytosolic nYFP and cYFP were subcloned as untagged sequences in pVKH18En6. Mutant sequences of ORP3a were generated by site-directed mutagenesis using specific primers. For protein His6 and GST tagging, DNA sequences of wild-type and mutant proteins were subcloned in recombinant E. coli expression vectors pET-28b(+) (Novagen, http://www.merckbiosciences.co.uk/g.asp?f=NVG/home.html) or in pGEX (Amersham, now part of GE Healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com), respectively. The His6 and the GST tags were placed upstream of either ORP3a proteins or PVA12, respectively. The primer sequences used for the subcloning and mutagenesis indicated above are available upon request. Constructs and mutations were confirmed by sequencing. Four-week-old Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Petit Havana) glasshouse plants grown at 25°C were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)-mediated transient expression (CITATION). The bacterial optical density (OD600) used for plant transformation was 0.05 for all constructs. The protein production of His6 and GST fusions was induced in E. coli BL21 lysogens, as described previously (CITATION). Cell lysis and interaction assays were carried out according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Profound Pull-Down GST Protein Interaction Kit; ThermoFisher Scientific, http://www.thermofisher.com). In both cases, E. coli extracts were prepared under native conditions in order to discharge insoluble proteins in the pellet: they were cleared of inclusion bodies by centrifugation (12 000 g for 30 mins). The pellet was then eliminated, and the soluble supernatants were used for further analyses. A 1-g portion of leaves transformed with CFP-tagged ORP3a proteins, or untransformed leaves, were subjected to protein extraction in 1.25 ml of protein extraction buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 10 mm EDTA, 5 mm MgCl2 and 1 mm DTT), with protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cell extracts (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) in liquid N2. The resulting suspension was then centrifuged at 20 000 g, at 4°C, for 15 mins. A 1-ml portion of the supernatant was added to 150 μμl of glutathione-agarose bead suspension (see below) (72% in NS buffer; 20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 5 mm MgCl2 and 1 mm DTT), previously mixed with bacterial lysates with or without GST or GST-PVA12, and washed from unbound proteins. To ensure that equal quantities of GST-PVA12 were mixed with leaf extracts, 400 μl of overnight E. coli culture expressing GST-PVA12 were extracted with 25 μl of GST extraction buffer (Profound Pull-Down GST Protein Interaction Kit; ThermoFisher Scientific) mixed with 1 ml of resin. Resin (150 μl) was then aliquoted with leaf extracts expressing ORP3a proteins. The mix was kept for 3 h at 4°C with gentle rotation. The beads were centrifuged at 500 g, at 4°C, for 1 min, and then washed three times with NS buffer. Bound proteins were eluted from the beads with an appropriate volume of 6x SDS-PAGE sample buffer (0.225 M Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 50% glycerol, 5% SDS, 0.05% bromophenol blue and 0.25 M DTT; QIAexpressionist kit, Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) in a 1.0:0.4 proportion of sample : buffer, and run on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Gels were developed by immunoblotting with an anti-His serum (Santa-Cruz Biotechnology, Inc., http://www.scbt.com). Proteins were quantified with a Bio-Rad Protein Assay Kit (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com) using BSA as a standard. Protein extracts were diluted to 1.0 : 0.4 with 6x SDS loading buffer, and boiled for 5 mins. Equal volumes of all extracts were loaded on 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gels, transferred to nitrocellulose membrane by electroblotting, and blocked with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), 0.05% Tween 20 and 5% milk powder for 2 h. The filter was then incubated in blocking buffer with either anti-GFP serum from rabbit (AbCam, http://www.abcam.com) at a dilution of 1:1000 overnight at 4°C, anti-His (Santa-Cruz Biotechnology, Inc.) at a dilution of 1 : 200 for 4 h or anti-GST (AbCam) at a dilution of 1:500 for 4 h. The anti-GFP serum is known to recognize all of the GFP variants. Further steps were performed previously (CITATION). The biochemical results presented in this work are representative of at least three independent repetitions. Transformed leaves were analyzed 48 h after infiltration of the lower epidermis. Confocal imaging was performed using an inverted LSM 510 META confocal microscope with a 20 × or 63 × oil immersion objective (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). For imaging the co-expression of YFP and GFP/CFP constructs, excitation lines of an argon ion laser at 458 nm for GFP/CFP and 514 nm for YFP were used alternately with line switching using the multi-track facility of the microscope. A 458/514-nm dichroic beam splitter was used, and a 475–525-nm bandpass filter and a 560–615-nm bandpass filter were used for GFP and YFP, respectively. In this way, any crosstalk and bleed-through of fluorescence was eliminated (CITATION). The same settings were used for imaging cells expressing one fluorescent protein fusion alone (i.e. GFP, CFP or YFP). Photoshop Imaging Suite (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com) was used for further image processing. Images presented in the microscopy figures are representative of at least five independent experiments. Commercially purified phosphodylcholine (PC; Avanti Polar Lipids, Inc., http://www.avantilipids.com) was dissolved in chloroform, mixed to the designated compositions and then dried under N2. Residual solvent was completely removed by placing the dried lipid mixtures in a vacuum for 1 h. β-Sitosterol, stigmasterol and ergosterol (Sigma-Aldrich) were solubilized in DMSO, and mixed with PC to form small unilamellar liposomes (sterols : PC, 4:6, wt/wt). Liposomes were incubated in Tris-buffered saline (TBS; 50 mm Tris·HCl, pH 7, 0.1 m NaCl) at 37°C for 1 h, followed by vigorous vortexing for 5 mins. The liposomes were then precipitated by centrifugation at 20 000 g, and then washed twice with ice-cold TBS for the lipid-binding assay (CITATION). Purified recombinant ORP3a proteins (B-PER 6xHis Fusion Protein Purification Kit; ThermoFisher Scientific) were mixed with the liposomes (200 μg) at a final concentration of 10 μg ml−1 in TBS. The mixture was incubated at 30°C for 30 mins, and washed twice with ice-cold TBS by centrifugation at 20 000 g at 4°C. The liposome pellet mixed with 6x SDS-PAGE sample buffer was analyzed by 12% SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted with anti-His serum (Santa-Cruz Biotechnology, Inc.) at 1 : 200. Control samples included sterol-amended liposomes alone. Purified recombinant His fusions of ORP3a proteins were used for the assays. Sterol-binding reactions were set-up at room temperature (22°C). Each reaction, in a final volume of 1000 μl, contained 20 μg of purified His-tagged wild-type or mutant proteins, 10–100 nm [3H]β-sitosterol and 25 mm phosphatidylcholine. After incubation for 4 h at room temperature, 200 μl of Ni-NTA beads were added to each reaction, followed by rotation, which continued for 1 h at 4°C. Beads were then sedimented at 500 g for 2 mins. The beads were then resuspended in 10 mm imidazole, followed by a wash (500 g for 2 mins) and resuspension in 25 mm imidazole. Finally, the protein-bound [3H]β-sitosterol was eluted with 200 mm imidazole, and measured by scintillation counting. For each experiment, the purified lysate from control cells expressing empty pET28 vector was employed for a parallel binding assay, and the radioactivity in the elution was considered as the background. ORP3a-specific 3H-binding was obtained by subtracting the background radioactivity from the total radioactivity associated with the ORP3a samples. The ORP3a-specific bound tritium was then converted into fmol of sterol μg−1 protein. Each binding curve was plotted with Prism (GraphPad, http://www.graphpad.com). Liposomes were prepared with phosphatidyl choline (PC) (Avanti Polar Lipids, Inc.) and β-sitosterol [22 23-3H] (American Radiolabeled Chemicals, Inc., http://www.arcincusa.com) at a molar ratio of 99 : 1. A dry thin film, containing PC and [3H]β-sitosterol mixture was obtained after solvent evaporation under nitrogen flow, and then resuspended in 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, and 100 mm NaCl, and at a final concentration of 1 mm. Liposomes were vortexed for 1 h at room temperature for complete swelling of the membranes. For the sitosterol extraction, 100 μg of purified recombinant ORP3a protein was incubated with 100 μl of liposomes (mean diameter ∼1 μm) at 30°C for 1 h, after which the membranes were kept at 4°C and pelleted by centrifugation at 190 000 g for 1 h. The resulting [3H]β-sitosterol in the supernatant was assumed to have been extracted from liposomes by ORP3a (CITATION). The level of radioactivity in the supernatant was determined by standard liquid scintillation counting techniques. The purified lysate from control cells expressing empty pET28 vector was employed for a parallel sterol extraction assay, and the radioactivity measured in the supernatant was considered to be aspecific. Data are the mean of three independent biological replicates. Error bars indicate the SEM. Circular dichroism spectra of ORP3a proteins were obtained using a Chirascan spectrometer (Applied Photophysics, http://www.photophysics.com), with a 10-sec integration time (CITATION). The sample was placed in a 1-cm cuvette, and all spectra were obtained at room temperature at 10 mg ml−1 in 10 mm Tris buffer. Molecular model building and dynamic simulations for PVA12 and ORP3a complexes were carried out using the following InsightII modules: Homology, Biopolymer, Discover_3, Docking and Binding Site (Accelrys Inc., http://accelrys.com) on a Silicon Graphics Octane2 workstation (CITATION). Secondary structural predictions were performed using Homology and Jpred. Molecular models for the N-terminal region of PVA12, VAP1–141, were constructed by secondary structural alignment of PVA12 to rat VAP-A major sperm protein (MSP) homology domain, in complex with the rat FFAT motif (PDB# 1Z9O). Only two short-loop regions on the surface of PVA12 were created to accommodate PVA12 C82 and PVA12 A111–H113. The quality of the initial model was assessed by measuring the deviations in bond lengths, bond angles and torsion angles. Only a few residues showed high deviation (standard deviation >4), and these residues were fixed prior to relaxing the entire structure. The splicing regions of the loops were subjected to dynamic simulations and energy minimization: the entire structure was relaxed, and the energy minimized. For ORP3a, a model was constructed for aa 88–243 and aa 360–453. The first region (aa 88–243) contains the sterol-binding domain and the gate, and the second region contains the WFDE region. A structure for the sequence linking these two regions was not assigned, but would extend out from ORP3a between helix 13 and 14. ORP3a aa 88–243 was constructed by secondary structural alignment of ORP3a to OSH4 (PDB# 1ZI7 and 1ZHT). Insertions or deletions were performed only in loop regions of ORP3a: these were then subjected to dynamic simulations and energy minimization, prior to relaxation of the entire structure of ORP3a. For aa 88–243, there is good overall sequence homology (ClustalW2 alignment score 173, ∼70% homology) with OSH4, and the gate region is highly conserved (EQVCHHPPMSA versus EQVSHHPPVTA). The aa 360–453 region of ORP3a contains regions of high sequence homology, and its N terminus has 90% structural (helical) homology with OSH4. The WFDE motif of ORP3a was then docked to PVA12 using the coordinates of the FFAT motif in rat VAP-A (PDB# 1Z9O) as an initial docking model (see Figure S3 for additional explanations). For PVA12 gene correlation analyses, the Correlation Database Module of CSB.DB (http://csbdb.mpimp-golm.mpg.de) was used (CITATION). This web-based tool permits the generation of co-response profiles with the Matrix nasc0271, which contains transcript profiles of 9694 genes in 51 experiments derived from the NASC Affymetrix Facility (NASCArrays; CITATION).
