!~ABS~! Proteomic approaches on lipid bodies have led to the identification of proteins associated with this compartment, showing that, rather than the inert fat depot, lipid droplets appear as complex dynamic organelles with roles in metabolism control and cell signaling. We focused our investigations on caleosin [Arabidopsis thaliana caleosin 1 (AtClo1)], a minor protein of the Arabidopsis thaliana seed lipid body. AtClo1 shares an original triblock structure, which confers to the protein the capacity to insert at the lipid body surface. In addition, AtClo1 possesses a calcium-binding domain. The study of plants deficient in caleosin revealed its involvement in storage lipid degradation during seed germination. Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a heterologous expression system, we investigated the potential role of AtClo1 in lipid body biogenesis and filling. The green fluorescent protein-tagged protein was correctly targeted to lipid bodies. We observed an increase in the number and size of lipid bodies. Moreover, transformed yeasts accumulated more fatty acids (+46.6%). We confirmed that this excess of fatty acids was due to overaccumulation of lipid body neutral lipids, triacylglycerols and steryl esters. We showed that the original intrinsic properties of AtClo1 protein were sufficient to generate a functional lipid body membrane and to promote overaccumulation of storage lipids in yeast oil bodies.
!~RES~! In order to follow AtClo1 expression in yeast cells, a GFP C-terminally tagged version of the protein, a powerful tool for monitoring the intracellular fate of heterologous (CITATION; CITATION) or endogenous membrane proteins (CITATION; CITATION), was created. AtCLO1 was under the control of the galactose-inducible GAL promoter in order to check the potential toxicity of AtClo1-GFP in yeast. Cell growth tests were performed on plates. BY4741 cells expressing pGAL-GFP or pGAL-CLO1-GFP were spotted onto plates containing glucose or galactose as the carbon source. The size of colonies was weakly altered by the presence of AtClo1-GFP when growth was performed on galactose-containing medium (Fig. 1a), but no toxicity was evidenced. The expression of the AtClo1-GFP protein (presence and apparent molecular mass) was analyzed by immunoblot experiments using the polyclonal serum raised against the N-terminal hydrophilic domain of the protein as described elsewhere (CITATION). One band at 55 kDa was present in the galactose-cultured cell extract, but not in the glucose-culture one, corresponding to the proper fusion protein (Fig. 1b). As this anti-caleosin serum also reacted with several yeast proteins, we confirmed that the 55-kDa band detected was indeed AtClo1-GFP using antibodies raised against GFP. We also determined by time-course experiments that the highest level of AtClo1-GFP expression was obtained after an overnight induction (Fig. 1c). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] An experiment conducted in planta revealed the localization of AtClo1 at the periphery of seed lipid bodies (CITATION). Our previous immunoblot experiments revealed the expression of AtClo1-GFP in yeast cells, but it was necessary to demonstrate the correct targeting of the protein to lipid bodies before investigating the function of the protein. As Erg6p, a delta(24)-sterol C-methyltransferase, is localized specifically inside the lipid bodies, this protein was selected as a specific marker for colocalization experiments (CITATION). We introduced at the chromosomal locus of the ERG6 gene the RedStar2 coding sequence a brighter fast-maturing version of DsRed (CITATION), leading to the expression of an RFP C-terminal-tagged version of Erg6p. This strain was transformed with the pGAL-GFP or the pGAL-CLO1-GFP plasmids. Experiments were first conducted on cells fully induced for AtClo1-GFP (overnight galactose-containing medium cultures), but due to the high level of expression, the protein was present in all the sucrose gradient fractions and the cells were too bright for observation of fluorescence punctuate staining under the microscope (data not shown). To reduce the level of AtClo1-GFP, the induction was started after overnight growth in a raffinose-containing medium. After 4 h of galactose induction, cells were collected for sucrose gradient fractionation and for observations under the microscope. Lipid bodies from cells expressing Erg6-RFP and AtClo1-GFP were purified by centrifugation on sucrose gradient density (Fig. 2a) and were recovered in fractions 1 and 2 (upper fractions) of the gradient as revealed by the presence of the 69 kDa Erg6-RFP protein on Western immunoblot experiments (Fig. 2c). AtClo1-GFP was mostly present in fractions 1 and 2, indicating the localization of the protein in lipid bodies (Fig. 2c). Faint staining was also detectable in fractions 3 and 4, indicating that AtClo1-GFP localization was not entirely restricted to lipid bodies (protein on their way to lipid bodies) or could be linked to the high expression of the protein in the cells. Indeed, AtClo1-GFP was one of the most abundant proteins in the lipid bodies (Fig. 2b). The cells were also observed under a microscope equipped with Nomarski optics and for GFP and RFP fluorescences. Cell observations confirmed the proper localization of Erg6p-RFP to lipid bodies, clearly visible with Nomarski optics (Fig. 3a and b). The same staining, ring-like structures, at the surface of lipid bodies, was also evidenced for GFP fluorescence corresponding to the AtClo1 fusion protein (Fig. 3c). These observations demonstrated that the correct targeting of the protein as its insertion at the surface of lipid bodies was similar to the localization observed for the endogenous AtClo1 reported in A. thaliana seeds by CITATION. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Careful examination of cells expressing AtClo1-GFP under the microscope pointed out potential morphological modifications affecting the size and number of lipid bodies per cell. A large cell-to-cell variability of lipid body number and size was also observed. This variability was correlated to the cell-to-cell heterogeneity of AtClo1-GFP expression (Fig. 3), due to the wide range of induction of the GAL promoter. Indeed, these observations were confirmed by electron microscopy of the ultrastructural morphology of cells induced for AtClo1-GFP expression. Analysis of cell thin sections revealed modifications in the intracellular organization of organelles with a significant proliferation of intracellular membranes probably corresponding to the endoplasmic reticulum, often induced during strong heterologous expression in yeast (CITATION; CITATION) (Fig. 4a). We also observed that only a subset of cells presented a very high number of lipid bodies, probably corresponding to cells fully induced for AtClo1-GFP expression (Fig. 4a and b). These numerous lipid bodies were organized in clusters around proliferation membrane sites where mitochondria were also stacked (Fig. 4a). We also observed the presence of contacts between oil bodies (Fig. 4a). In these expressing cells, we detected a global increase of lipid body number per cell, up to 18 lipid bodies per cell, whereas the control cells contained between 0 and 2 lipid bodies per cell (Fig. 4b). We also observed a wide range of lipid body sizes with larger structures (maximum size 284 715 nm2, n=33) than the control cells (maximum size 138 524 nm2, n=27) (Fig. 4c). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because the morphological modifications observed on lipid bodies after AtClo1-GFP expression could lead to lipid accumulation, we analyzed the lipid content of AtClo1-GFP-expressing yeasts. We first focused our investigation on cell fatty acids, which provided a rapid overview of the total cell lipid content. After overnight induction in a galactose-containing medium, cells were processed to obtain FAME, and the organic extract was separated by GC to determine the FAME composition. We observed a significant accumulation of lipids in cells expressing AtClo1-GFP (59.1±0.56 μg FAME mg−1 d.w.; n=3) when compared with the control cells (40.3±0.69μg FAME mg−1 d.w.; n=3), leading to a statistically significant increase (P<0.001) in the total fatty acid content of 46.6%. According to the retention times obtained from FAME standards, we also determined the fatty acid composition of the yeast with major species, C16:1, C18:1 and C16:0, and minor species, C18:0, C14:1, C14:0, C12:0 and C10:0. The expression of AtClo1-GFP did not modify the FAME composition of yeast (Fig. 5). To determine the nature of the lipids accumulated after AtClo1-GFP expression, cellular lipids were analyzed by TLC after Folch extraction. We decided to quantify storage neutral lipid, triacylglycerols and steryl esters, lipids specifically stored in lipid bodies. Lipids from cells expressing AtClo1-GFP were analyzed and compared with those extracted from the control strain expressing only free GFP. Quantification of each class of lipids revealed a significant variation in cells expressing At-CLO1-GFP for lipids specific for lipid bodies (i.e. storage lipids: triacylglycerols and seryl esters) and not for other cellular lipid classes such as free fatty acids, phospholipids and sterols (Fig. 6a). We observed that the impact on storage was most significant for neutral lipids, 2- and 2.8-fold increases for steryl esters and triacylglycerols, respectively, and less significant for synthesis intermediates such as diacylglycerols and monoacylglycerols (Fig. 6b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Yeast strains were transformed as described by CITATION. Yeast strains used throughout this study are BY 4741 (Mata his3Δleu2Δmet15Δura3Δ) from Euroscarf (Frankfurt, Germany) and BY ERG6-RFP. This strain, expressing the RFP-tagged Erg6p protein, was constructed by inserting into the BY 4741 cell the REDSTAR2 coding sequence in frame at the 3′ of the ERG6 gene by homologous recombination as described in CITATION. Each strain was transformed with either pGAL-GFP (pNBT29) (CITATION) or pGAL-CLO1-GFP. Cells were grown in minimal medium (YNB) containing 0.67% yeast nitrogen base without amino acids and ammonium sulfate (BDBioscience, Heidelberg, Germany), supplemented with 5 g L−1 ammonium sulfate and 0.2% casamino acids. The carbon source was 2% glucose or 2% galactose+0.02% glucose as indicated in the figure legend. Galactose induction was performed by adding 2% galactose on flasks containing cells grown overnight in 2% raffinose+0.02% glucose up to an A600 nm=0.6. All cultures were performed in conical flasks, containing 1/5 volume of medium, and incubated at 28 °C in an orbital shaker at an agitation rate of 200 r.p.m. DNA manipulations were performed essentially as described by CITATION. To obtain the pGAL-CLO1-GFP plasmid, we performed PCR amplification of the ORF of the AtCLO1 gene using pET20b-CLO1 plasmid DNA (CITATION) as the template. The BamHI/SmaI PCR fragment obtained was introduced into the pNBT29 plasmid (CITATION) in frame with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence, thereby creating a GFP C-terminally tagged version of AtClo1. Cells were cultured overnight in 5 mL of minimal medium containing 2% glucose (for details, see Yeast strains and growth conditions) and were spotted on plates containing agar minimal medium with 2% galactose to induce expression of AtClo1-GFP. Plates were incubated for 72 h at 28 °C. The first drop contained 3 × 104 cells and each subsequent drop was diluted sixfold compared with the previous drop. Total protein extracts were prepared using the NaOH/trichloroacetic acid (TCA) lysis technique as described by CITATION. Cells [corresponding to 1.5 UA600 nm or 0.75 mg dry weight (d.w.)] were collected and resuspended into a final volume of 500 μL. Fifty microliters of 1.85 M NaOH was added to the sample and cells were disrupted by vortexing and incubating on ice for 10 min. Proteins were precipitated 10 min on ice by adding 50 μL of 50% TCA. The resulting protein pellet was resuspended in 50 μL of loading buffer containing two volumes of 2 × sample buffer [100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 4 mM EDTA, 4% SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate), 20% glycerol and bromophenol blue], one volume of Tris base 1 M and 2% mercaptoethanol. Lipid droplets were separated by density gradients as described previously by CITATION. Cells expressing AtClo1-GFP after 4 h of galactose induction (corresponding to 100 UA600 nm or 50 mg d.w.) were harvested by centrifugation, washed with water and disrupted by vortexing (four times, for 1 min) in the presence of 0.45 mm glass beads and 0.3 mL of fat body buffer (FBB) (10 mM HEPES, 10 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA and 0.1 mM EGTA) supplemented with 10 mM DTT and protease inhibitors (Complete cocktail, Roche Diagnostics, Meylan, France). The extract was transferred to a fresh tube and the beads were washed twice with FBB. The extract and washings were pooled and spun at 3000 g for 5 min to remove cell debris. The volume of cleared extract was adjusted to 2.7 mL with FBB, mixed with an equal volume of FBB including 1.08 M of sucrose and transferred into an 11-mL ultracentrifugation tube. It was overlaid sequentially with 1.8 mL each of 0.27 and 0.135 M sucrose in FBB and FBB only. After centrifugation at 150 000 g for 90 min, seven fractions of 1.5 mL were collected from the top to the bottom (floating lipid bodies in fractions 1 and 2) and the proteins were precipitated by adding 1.5 mL of 20% TCA and incubated on ice overnight. Proteins were collected by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 30 min, and resuspended in 400 μL of loading buffer. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE using ready-to-use NuPage Novex 12% Bis–Tris gels and NuPAGE MES SDS running buffer (Invitrogen, Cergy Pontoise, France). Gels were stained with Coomassie blue (G-250) according to CITATION or using the silver staining kit (Invitrogen). For immunoblotting experiments, proteins were transferred onto Immobilon-P PVDF membranes (Millipore, Saint Quentin en Yvelines, France) and probed with polyclonal antibodies raised against AtClo1 (CITATION), or red fluorescence protein (RFP) (Abcam, Paris, France), or monoclonal antibodies raised against GFP (Roche Diagnostics) and actin (Abcam). Primary antibodies were detected using horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit or anti-mouse immunoglobulin G secondary antibodies and revealed using SuperSignal West Dura Extended Duration Substrate (Perbio, Brebières, France). Luminescence from peroxidase activity was recorded using the LAS-3000 imaging system and multigauge software from Fujifilm (Saint Quentin en Yvelines, France). GFP and RFP fluorescences were monitored in cells collected from cultures and examined under a microscope without any treatment. We used a Zeiss Axioplan 2 Imaging microscope (Zeiss, Le Pecq, France) equipped with fluorescence and Nomarski optics and a Roper CoolSnap HQ camera coupled to a Metamorph driver (Roper Scientific, Evry, France). Cells (c. 10 UA600 nm or 5 mg d.w.) were fixed for 1 h at 28 °C by adding 250 μL of 50% glutaraldehyde to 5 mL of overnight galactose-growing cells. After 5 min of centrifugation at 3000 g, cells were resuspended in 3% glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer and fixed overnight at 4 °C. Then, cells were washed three times with 0.1 M sodium cacodylate, pH 7.4, three times with water, incubated in 1% KMnO4 for 2 h on ice and again washed three times in water. Subsequently, cells were treated with 2% aqueous uranyl acetate for 1 h at 4 °C and washed with water. Cells were gradually dehydrated in ethanol, and in propylene oxide, and embedded in Epon containing 2% dimethylaminoethanol (Delta Microscopies, Labège, France). Thin sections (70 nm) were cut, stained with lead citrate and examined in a Zeiss EM902 transmission electron microscope (Zeiss) at 80 kV. Micrographies were acquired using MegaView III CCD camera and analyzed using item software (Eloise SARL, Roissy en France, France). Lipids from yeast cells were extracted as described by CITATION. Cells (corresponding to 200 UA600 nm or 100 mg d.w.) were harvested by centrifugation and washed with water. Five milliliters of chloroform/methanol ratio 2/1 (v/v) was added to the pellet and the cells were disrupted by vortexing for 5 min using glass beads (0.45 mm). After a 1-h incubation with shaking, the extract was centrifuged for 5 min at 500 g and the supernatant was recovered in a new tube and mixed with 2.5 mL of 0.9% NaCl. The organic phase (lower phase) was collected after centrifugation at 500 g for 5 min and washed three times with chloroform/methanol/water 3/48/47 (v/v/v) (CITATION). The organic solvents were evaporated under a stream of N2 and lipids were resolubilized in 100 μL of chloroform/methanol 2/1 (v/v). Lipids (20 μL) were separated by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) on HPTLC silica-coated aluminum plates (Merck, Fontenay Sous Bois, France) using successively two mobile phases, petroleum ether/diethyl ether/acetic acid 10/10/0.4 (v/v/v) and petroleum ether/diethyl ether 49/1 (v/v), until the solvent front reached about 15 and 1 cm from the top of the plate, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Lipid classes were visualized using the MnCl2 charring method. A silica plate was incubated for 1 min in a solution containing 120 mL of methanol, 120 mL of water, 0.8 g of MnCl2 and 8 mL of sulfuric acid and then heated in an oven at 100 °C until the dark lipid spots appeared. Lipid identification was based on migration obtained for lipid standards (Sigma-Aldrich, Saint Quentin Fallavier, France). Lipid staining was recorded using the LAS-3000 imaging system and multigauge software from Fujifilm. Transmethylation of acylated and free fatty acids was performed as described in CITATION. Cells (corresponding to 50 UA600 nm or 25 mg d.w.) were collected by centrifugation, washed with water and freeze dried for 72 h. The pellet was disrupted by vortexing in the presence of 0.45 glass beads and 2 mL of 2.5% (v/v) sulfuric acid in methanol. Heptadecanoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich) was added (100 μg for each sample) as an internal standard for quantification. The samples were heated for 90 min at 80 °C. Fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) were extracted by addition of 3 mL of water, 0.9 mL of hexane and with vigorous shaking. Samples of the organic upper phase were separated by GC using a GC3900 chromatograph (Varian, Les Ulis, France) with a Factor Four VF-23 ms 30 m × 0.25 mm capillary column (Varian). The carrier gas was helium at an inlet pressure of 1 mL min−1. The column temperature program started at 40 °C for 1 min, ramping to 120 °C at 40 °C min−1, holding for 1 min at 120 °C, ramping to 210 °C at 3 °C min−1 and holding for 10 min at 210 °C. Identification of FAME peaks was based on the retention times obtained for standards (Sigma-Aldrich). The quantification was performed by flame ionization detection at 270 °C. The total amount of fatty acids was calculated from the ratio between the sum of FAME peak areas and the heptadecanoic acid methyl ester peak area.
