!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana gene At1g74030 codes for a putative plastid phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) enolase (ENO1). The recombinant ENO1 protein exhibited enolase activity and its kinetic properties were determined. ENO1 is localized to plastids and expressed in most heterotrophic tissues including trichomes and non-root-hair cells, but not in the mesophyll of leaves. Two T-DNA insertion eno1 mutants exhibited distorted trichomes and reduced numbers of root hairs as the only visible phenotype. The essential role of ENO1 in PEP provision for anabolic processes within plastids, such as the shikimate pathway, is discussed with respect to plastid transporters, such as the PEP/phosphate translocator.
!~RES~! The A. thaliana genome contains three genes annotated as putative ENOs (At2g29560, At2g36530, At1g74030). According to the Aramemnon database CITATION , At1g74030 encodes a protein containing an N-terminal transit peptide for plastid targeting with a consensus prediction (i.e. its probability) of 15.8 compared to 0.6 and 0.0 for At2g36530 and At2g29560, respectively ( http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/ ). For one of the two putative cytosolic ENO proteins (At2g36530, equivalent to AtLOS2), a dual targeting has been shown recently CITATION . A LOS2-GFP fusion protein was located both in the cytosol and in the nucleus. The subcellular localization of the putative plastidic ENO (i.e. ENO1) and the second cytosolic ENO (ENOc; At2g29560) was investigated after fusion of protein fragments to GFP and transient expression in a heterotrophic A. thaliana cell culture. The ENO1-GFP fusion protein ( CITATION A) was localized within the plastids ( CITATION B). As a positive control for plastid targeting, GFP was fused to a fragment of the triose phosphate/phosphate translocator (TPT; At5g46110) and expressed in the same A. thaliana cell culture (data not shown). In contrast, the GFP-ENOc fusion protein was found both in the cytosol ( CITATION A and B) and the nucleus ( CITATION C and D) and its subcellular localization hence resembles that of AtLOS2. In order to functionally characterize ENO1, the cDNA was fused to a C-terminal His-tag, the construct expressed in E. coli and the ENO1 protein enriched by Ni-NTA chromatography. Separation of the final preparation by SDS–PAGE revealed three major protein bands ( CITATION C) with apparent molecular masses ( M r ) of 77.0 kDa, 61.2 kDa and 23.7 kDa. On Western blots only one band ( CITATION D) corresponding to a M r of 60.3 kDa emerged using an anti-His antibody. This band was identical to the protein band after SDS–PAGE with an apparent M r of 61.2 kDa. Based on the amino acid sequence of the ENO1 protein, a M r of 51.5 kDa can be calculated, which is lower compared to the apparent M r . As estimated densitometerically after SDS–PAGE, approximately 49% of the total protein consisted of ENO1 (data not shown). The enriched recombinant ENO1 preparation after Ni–NTA chromatography was analyzed for ENO activity using a standard assay (i.e. in the direction of PEP formation at pH 8.0) with either 3-PGA or 2-PGA as substrates. The specific activity of ENO was between 0.25 and 0.30 U mg −1 protein. Considering that about half of the protein on the gel was in the ENO1 protein band identified after SDS–PAGE and on Western blots, the maximum specific activity was calculated to be in the range between 0.5 to 0.6 U mg −1 protein. As a control, lysates of wild-type or transformed E. coli cells, before induction of ENO1 expression by IPTG, were subjected to Ni–NTA chromatography. No ENO activity could be detected in either case (data not shown). Moreover, ENO activity in crude cell lysates was increased 8-fold and 11-fold upon induction with IPTG compared to lysates prepared from un-induced and wild-type E. coli cells, respectively. The specific ENO activity was further increased by a factor of 14 after Ni–NTA chromatography (data not shown). For a further kinetic characterization, the relative reaction velocity ( v ) observed for saturating 2-PGA concentrations at pH 8.0 was referred to the highest ENO1 activity (100%). The pH response curves shown in CITATION revealed distinct pH optima for the forward (PEP formation) and reverse (2-PGA formation) reaction. For the forward direction, there was a sharp pH-optimum between pH 7.5 and pH 8.5 compared to the reverse reaction, which exhibited a broader pH-optimum between pH 6.0 and pH 7.5. Substrate dependencies of ENO1 activity in the forward and reverse reaction obeyed Michaelis-Menten kinetics ( CITATION A–D), with apparent K m values for the respective substrates in the submillimolar range ( CITATION ). At pH 8.0 the V max of the forward direction was more than doubled compared to the V max of the reverse reaction ( CITATION , CITATION ). In particular, the affinity for 2-PGA was high at pH 8, with a K m in the upper micromolar range ( CITATION ). In general, the K m values for both substrates were higher at pH 7.0 as compared to pH 8.0 ( CITATION ). The kinetic constants determined at pH 7.0 and pH 8.0 were used to calculate the equilibrium constants for the ENO reaction at both pH values by applying the Haldane equation, e.g. CITATION , K eq = V max ( 2 - PGA ) · K m ( PEP ) V max ( PEP ) · K m ( 2 - PGA ) , ( see Table 1 ) , The thermodynamic equilibrium favors the formation of PEP from 2-PGA, with K eq -values of 5.66 and 3.45 at pH 8.0 and pH 7.0, respectively ( CITATION ) and is hence close to the reported value of 6.7 CITATION . Moreover, from the ratios of the apparent K m values for 3-PGA and 2-PGA, the thermodynamic equilibrium for the PGyM reaction could be estimated at both pH values ( CITATION ). The temporal and spatial expression profile of ENO1 was investigated both by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and promoter::reporter gene fusions ( CITATION ). The mRNA abundance of ENO1 was high in young roots and young siliques as well as in the shoot apex, but low in young leaves, stems and cotyledons. It was virtually absent from mature leaves and flowers ( CITATION A). In order to study the expression of ENO1 at the cellular level, transgenic A. thaliana plants were generated carrying three different ENO1 promoter::GUS gene fusion constructs ( CITATION A). For the promoter construct A, there was no GUS staining detectable, indicating that relevant regulatory cis -acting elements were missing in this fragment (data not shown). As shown in CITATION , the tissue-specific expression profile with the promotor-fusion-construct AB ( CITATION B) matched very well with RT-PCR data ( CITATION A) and in silico expression profiles based on microarray data (i.e. http://bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi ). In particular, mature leaves were free of GUS activity ( CITATION D), and in roots expression was found only in an early developmental state ( CITATION D). Moreover, the shoot apex ( CITATION ) and the hypocotyls ( CITATION C) exhibited substantial GUS activity. Similar to the RT-PCR data, cotyledons were devoid of GUS activity ( CITATION A and C). Apart from the spatial and temporal expression profiles of different organs, interesting insights in ENO1 expression emerged at the cellular level. ENO1 expression in roots is restricted to the cortex (in particular to the non-root-hair cells of the rhizodermis) and the central cylinder of the elongation zone ( CITATION H). There was no expression at the root tip or basal parts of the roots. High GUS activity was found in trichomes of emerging leaves ( CITATION ), whereas trichomes of mature leaves were devoid of GUS activity ( CITATION D). Moreover, GUS activity was also high in the meristematic regions of emerging leaves and the petioles ( CITATION D and F). With the promotor construct C a similar, but not identical, spatial and temporal expression profile was obtained as with the construct AB ( CITATION ). Again, mature leaves were free of GUS activity ( CITATION C) and trichomes of young developing leaves exhibited an intense GUS staining ( CITATION D, E, G and H). In contrast to promoter construct AB, promoter construct C also reveals high GUS expression in young and older roots ( CITATION B and I), in particular at the root tips and in root hairs ( CITATION J). Moreover, GUS expression was also found in the vasculature of cotyledons ( CITATION ), which contrasts the lack of ENO1 expression in cotyledons observed in RT-PCR experiments ( CITATION A). Furthermore, with promoter construct C, there was also some GUS staining in the style ( CITATION K) and in the embryo sac ( CITATION L). As predicted from RT-PCR data, flowers lack ENO1 expression completely ( CITATION A), whereas developing siliques showed a transient increase in ENO1 expression . The expression profile of ENO1 is consistent with the idea that photosynthetic active chloroplasts lack a complete glycolysis to PEP, whereas certain plastids of non-green tissues, in particular those of developing seeds or in roots, are capable of generating PEP via glycolysis. In order to test the consequence of a deficiency in ENO1, two eno1 mutant alleles were isolated from the SALK T-DNA insertion mutant collection and established as homozygous lines, eno1-1 and eno1-2 ( CITATION A). Both mutant alleles lacked ENO1 expression completely ( CITATION B) and total ENO activity was reduced by 50% in roots, but not in leaves of eno1-1 compared to the wild type (data not shown). On a macroscopic scale there were no differences in the phenotypes between the wild type and eno1-1 or eno1-2 ( CITATION A–C). Both shoot and root growth was unaffected when plants were grown on MS agar ( CITATION ). However, a closer inspection of trichomes of young leaves revealed differences between mutant and wild-type plants. Trichomes of the mutants appeared less turgescent and had a distorted phenotype ( CITATION D) as compared to the wild type ( CITATION C). In particular, the occurence of a trichome phenotype in both eno1-1 and eno1-2 underlines the expression pattern observed in ENO1 promoter::GUS plants (compare CITATION E and F). Furthermore, there was no significant difference in the root hair lengths between the mutant and the wild type ( CITATION D and E), but the number of root hairs was reduced by 17% in 2-week-old plants (data not shown) compared to the wild type, which might form a link to the expression of ENO1 in non-root-hair cells as has been observed with the ENO1 promotor::GUS construct AB (compare CITATION H).
!~MM~! Wild-type and mutant A. thaliana plants, ecotype Colombia were used in all experiments. The eno1 mutant alleles ( eno1-1 ; N616157 and eno1-2 ; N421734) were provided by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (NASC; http://arabidopsis.info/ ). Arabidopsis plants were initially germinated and grown on soil for 4–5 weeks in a temperature-controlled greenhouse at a 17-h-light/7-h-dark-cycle. The average photon flux density (PFD) on plant level was 70–100 μmol m −2 s −1 . For growth of plants in sterile culture, seeds were surface-sterilized and germinated on agar supplemented with half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2% sucrose (Duchefa, Haarlem, Netherlands). Plantlets were grown in a Percival growth cabinet at day/night temperatures of 21 °C/18 °C and a 17-h-light/7-h-dark-cycle at an average PFD of 50–80 μmol m −2 s −1 . For the subcellular localization of ENO1 (At1g74030) and ENOc (cytosolic ENO, At2g29560) proteins, N-terminal amino acid fragments were translationally fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). The coding regions of ENO1 and ENOc equivalent to 107 and 101 amino acids, respectively, were amplified by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using the primer pairs ENO1-GFP sense, 5′ TC ATGGCTTTGACTACAAAACCTCACCATCTT 3′, ENO1-GFP antisense, 5′ CACCTTTACCACCATAGACGCTCT 3′, ENOc-GFP sense, 5′ TC ATGTCTGTGCAAGAGTATTTAGACAAGCA 3′, and ENOc-GFP antisense, 5′ CAAGATACATTCCTTTGTCTCCATCA 3′, and subjected to Gateway cloning (Invitrogen GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany). The fragments were cloned into the pDONOR207 vector followed by recombination usind the LR reaction with the pGWB5 destination vector containing a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S driven full-length PAN w/C-terminal GFP. For transient expression of the ENO1-GFP and ENOc-GFP constructs, an A. thaliana suspension cell culture line was generated from roots and maintained in AT-medium according to CITATION . One-week-old, dark-grown cultured A. thaliana cells were transformed using the super-virulent Agrobacterium strain LBA4404.pBBR1MCS.virGN54D (kindly provided by Dr. Memelink, University of Leiden) as described by CITATION . GFP fluorescence was visualized with a fluorescence microscope (Leica DM RA2 filter F46-002 ET-Bandpass 470/40). PCR primers were designed for the full length coding sequence (CDS) of ENO1 from A. thaliana (At1g74030). A sense primer ENO1-GW-F (5′ CACC ATG GCTTTGACTACAAAACC 3′) containing the start codon and an antisense primer lacking the stop codon ENO1-GW-R (5′ TGGTGATCGGAAAGCTTCACCG 3′) was designed for cloning into the Gateway entry vector pENTR SD/D-TOPO harboring a Shine-Dalgarno (SD) sequence for efficient sequence initiation of C-terminal fusion in E. coli . The PCRs were run at 95 °C for 2 min followed by 35 cycles (30 s at 95 °C, 30 s at 59 °C and 1 min at 72 °C) and a final extension at 72 °C for 7 min. Full length ENO1 was recombined by LR reaction into the Gateway destination vector pET-DEST42 (Invitrogen GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany), containing a C-terminal polyhistidine tag (His-tag) and transformed into competent E. coli cells (strain BL21; Invitrogen GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany). E. coli cells were grown at 37 °C in 100 ml LB-medium containing 50 μg ml −1 carbenicillin, and ENO1 expression was induced by the addition of 1 mM IPTG (isopropyl-β- d -thiogalactopyranoside). The cells were pelleted by centrifugation (4000× g for 15 min), resuspended in 100 mM Tris–HCl (pH7.5), 1.5 M NaCl, 2 mM EDTA supplemented with 20 μl ml −1 Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Sigma, P2714) and lysed by sonication (20 cycles, duty cycle 50%, output control 4) with a Branson sonifier 450. The lysate was centrifuged at 4000× g for 15 min and the supernatant subjected to Ni–nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni–NTA) affinity chromatography. The supernatant was mixed with 0.5 ml of Ni–NTA agarose (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) pre-equilibrated with 50 mM NaCl and 100 mM Na-Pi (pH 7.8). The recombinant protein was allowed to bind to the Ni–NTA agarose for 1 h at 4 °C, and after transfer to a column (i.e. a glasswool plugged pasteur pipette), the resin was washed twice with 800 μl of 100 mM Na-Pi (pH 7.8), 8 mM imidazole and ENO1 was specifically eluted in four steps with 100 μl each of 100 mM Na-Pi (pH 7.8) and 150 mM imidazole. ENO1 activity was enriched in the third fraction. Cell lysates and purified ENO1 preparations were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) on 12% separation gels according to Ref. CITATION and protein stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250 (Serva, Heidelberg, Germany). Western blots were performed according to CITATION using a Semidry Western transfer apparatus (Itf-Labortechnik GmbH & Co., KG Wasserburg/Bodensee, Germany). The blots were incubated with the primary penta-His-antibody (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) followed by the secondary goat anti-mouse immunoglubulin G (IgG) antibody conjugated with alkaline peroxidase and developed in a solution containing 30 mg ml −1 NBT (nitroblue tetrazolium chloride), 15 mg ml −1 BCIP (5-bromo-4-chloro-3′-indolyl phosphate), 100 mM Tris–HCl (pH 9.5), 100 mM NaCl and 5 mM MgCl 2 . Enolase activity was determined spectrophotometrically in coupled enzyme assays according to CITATION at 340 nm and a temperature of 25 °C in a microtiter plate reader (Spectrafluor Plus, Tecan, Austria). For the forward (glycolytic) reaction the assay mixture contained in 200 μl, 100 mM Tricine–NaOH (pH 8.0) or 100 mM HEPES–NaOH (pH 7.0), 1 mM MgSO 4 , 10 mM KCl, 5 mM 3-phosphoglyceric acid (3-PGA), 0.1 mM 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPGA), 1 mM ADP, 0.2 mM NADH, 3 U phosphoglycerate mutase (PgyM) from rabbit muscle (Boehringer, Mannheim, Germany), 2 U pyruvate kinase (PK) (Sigma–Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) and 2.75 U lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). Despite the lack of availability of 2-PGA by chemical supply companies, a residual batch of 2-PGA (Sigma–Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) was used as the direct substrate at concentrations of up to 5 mM. In the case when 2-PGA was used 2,3-DPGA and PGyM were omitted. For the reverse (gluconeogenic) reaction the standard assay mixture contained 100 mM Tricine–NaOH (pH 8.0) or 100 mM HEPES–NaOH (pH 7.0), 1 mM MgSO 4 , 10 mM KCl, 5 mM PEP, 0.1 mM 2,3-DPGA, 2 mM ATP, 0.2 mM NADH, 3 U PGyM, 6 U 3-phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) from baker’s yeast (Sigma–Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) and 3 U glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) from rabbit muscle (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). Kinetic constants ( K m , V max ) were obtained from hyperbolic curve fits to the experimental data implemented in SigmaPlot8.0 for windows (SPSS Inc.). Protein was determined according to CITATION with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a standard. Total RNA was extracted from flowers of wild-type A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) using the RNase ALL method CITATION . The RNA was treated with DNase I to digest traces of DNA using a DNA-free kit (Ambion, Darmstadt, Germany). The first strand cDNA was synthesized using the BioScript enzyme from Bioline (Luckenwalde, Germany) and its integrity was checked using actin primers ActinF-Lg 5′ TAACTCTCCCGCTATGTATGT 3′ and ActinR-Lg 5′ CCACTGAGCACAATGTTACCGTAC 3′. For the amplification of the full length CDS of ENO1 the sense primer ENO1-GW-F (5′ CACCATGGCTTTGACTACAAAACC 3′) and the antisense primer ENO1-GWstop-R (5′ TCATGGTGATCGGAAAGCTTCACC 3′) were used. The PCRs were run at 95 °C for 2 min followed by 30 cycles (30 s at 95 °C, 30 s at 59 °C and 1 min at 72 °C) and a final extension at 72 °C for 7 min. The PCR products were separated on 1% agarose gels. ENO1 promoter-GUS constructs were generated as translational fusions of DNA fragments comprising three individual promoter and/or putative regulatory regions designated as A, AB, and C) to the uidA gene. The individual ENO1 promoter constructs consisted of a 306 bp fragment upstream of the translational start including the complete intergenic region in front of At1g74040 and the 5′-untranslated region (5′-UTR) (A), a fusion of construct A with a 676 bp fragment downstream of the translational stop including the 3′-UTR (AB) CITATION , and (C) a 1312 bp fragment including fragment A, the first exon, the first intron and parts of the second exon. To generate construct A, 306 bp of the sequences at the 5′-UTR region before the ATG of ENO1 were amplified with the primers ENO1(A) sense 5′ ACGGCACAGTGTCTCTGGTTACTACTTTGCTAGTG and ENO1(A) antisense CCTCTTCGATACGGCAAAGCCATTACACGATACCT. For the generation of construct AB, initially 676 bp of B (i.e. the 3′-UTR region of ENO1 ) was amplified using the primers ENO1(B) sense 5′ CACCGTAATGGCTTTGCCGTATCGAAGAGGAACTCG and ENO1(B) anti sense 5′ GAACTTGCTCACAGCTCCACATAATTTCCTTCA 3′ and fused to construct A by PCR yielding a product of 982 bp. To generate construct C, which included the sequence of construct A, primers ENO1(A) sense 5′ ACGGCACAGTGTCTCTGGTTACTACTTTGCTAGTG 3′ and ENO1(C) anti sense 5′ CATAAACTCTTGCATAGCCAAACTATTCCCAGCATG 3′ were used to amplify a product of 1312 bp. The PCR products (A, AB and C) were cloned into the Gateway entry vector pENTR D-TOPO and recombined using attB recombination (Invitrogen GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany) into the pGWB3 destination vector. The constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type plants and 20 transgenic lines containing the individual constructs selected by kanamycin were analyzed for GUS expression. GUS staining was performed according to CITATION overnight at 37 °C.
