!~ABS~! Chloroplasts are descendents of a cyanobacterial endosymbiont, but many chloroplast protein genes of endosymbiont origin are encoded by the nucleus. The chloroplast–cyanobacteria relationship is a typical target of orthogenomics, an analytical method that focuses on the relationship of orthologous genes. Here, we present results of a pilot study of functional orthogenomics, combining bioinformatic and experimental analyses, to identify nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins of endosymbiont origin (CPRENDOs). Phylogenetic profiling based on complete clustering of all proteins in 17 organisms, including eight cyanobacteria and two photosynthetic eukaryotes, was used to deduce 65 protein groups that are conserved in all oxygenic autotrophs analyzed but not in non-oxygenic organisms. With the exception of 28 well-characterized protein groups, 56 Arabidopsis proteins and 43 Synechocystis proteins in the 37 conserved homolog groups were analyzed. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) targeting experiments indicated that 54 Arabidopsis proteins were targeted to plastids. Expression of 39 Arabidopsis genes was promoted by light. Among the 40 disruptants of Synechocystis, 22 showed phenotypes related to photosynthesis. Arabidopsis mutants in 21 groups, including those reported previously, showed phenotypes. Characteristics of pulse amplitude modulation fluorescence were markedly different in corresponding mutants of Arabidopsis and Synechocystis in most cases. We conclude that phylogenetic profiling is useful in finding CPRENDOs, but the physiological functions of orthologous genes may be different in chloroplasts and cyanobacteria.
!~RES~! An all-against-all BLASTP search was performed on a data set (CZ16X) comprising all predicted proteins (102,513 sequences excluding duplication, as of December 2002) in 17 organisms including eight cyanobacteria, three photosynthetic bacteria, two non-photosynthetic bacteria, two non-photosynthetic eukaryotes and two photosynthetic eukaryotes (A. thaliana and C. merolae). The genomes used in the analysis are listed in Supplementary Table S1. Homolog groups were constructed by single-linkage clustering with several different threshold E-values using the Gclust software version 3.0. The method of clustering was briefly described in previous publications (Sato CITATION, Sato et al. CITATION). We used the results of clustering with E-values 10–8, 10–12 and 10–20. The homolog groups that are shared by all of the eight cyanobacteria and the two photosynthetic eukaryotes but not by other organisms were selected for each E-value, and the groups were combined. We thus obtained 65 homolog groups that were specific for photosynthetic organisms (Supplementary Table S2). This clustering was done using all the proteins coded for by the nuclear genome as well as organellar genomes and, therefore, some groups contained plastid-encoded proteins and cyanobacterial proteins, such as photosynthetic reaction center proteins, PsbB, PsbC (Group ID 1 in Supplementary Table S2), PsaA and PsaB (Group ID 3). However, other groups contained nuclear-encoded proteins of the plant and the alga with cyanobacterial homologs. Among the 65 selected groups, 28 groups contained known proteins involved in photosynthesis or chloroplast biogenesis. Finally, 37 homolog groups, in which the proteins in A. thaliana and C. merolae are encoded by the nucleus and have not been assigned a well-defined function, were selected as targets for further functional analysis. These homolog groups included 56 A. thaliana proteins and 43 Synechocystis proteins (Table 1). Each of the homologous protein groups was assigned a CPRE number. An alignment of an example homolog group is shown in Fig. 1. In this example, the member proteins were highly similar to one another, but each of the proteins of A. thaliana and C. merolae had an N-terminal extension. Among the 56 A. thaliana sequences, 48 had an N-terminal extension. Three programs were tested for the prediction of intracellular localization (Table 2). With the exception of seven proteins, most of the 56 proteins were predicted to be localized in chloroplasts by at least two prediction programs. Note that these results were obtained with the most recent software. Only an old version of TargetP was available at the start of the present study. Based on these results, we considered these proteins as putative CPRENDOs, and analyzed protein targeting and light-regulated gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Intracellular targeting of these A. thaliana proteins was analyzed using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in onion epidermis with particle bombardment. This is a heterologous system; however, we obtained no unexpected results that contradicted previously reported biochemical or immunological data in Arabidopsis or Cyanidioschyzon proteins (Moriyama et al. CITATION). Of the 56 proteins analyzed, 54 proteins were targeted to plastids (Fig. 2 and Table 2). Seven of these were also targeted to mitochondria (see also Table 3). A complete set of fluorescence micrographs is presented in Supplementary Fig. S1. Two proteins in CPRE 7, consisting of four paralogs, showed no clear localization, and are possibly cytoplasmic proteins. Note that these two cytoplasmic proteins (At2g43910 and At2g43920) are included in a different cluster in a recent database (see the rightmost column in Table 1: ALL95 cluster). The data were consistent with the proteomic studies on various chloroplast fractions (Table 2): namely, 37 proteins belonging to 29 homolog groups among the 56 examined groups have been detected in at least some fractions of chloroplast. It is known that the proteomics data alone should not be considered as conclusive evidence for the presence of these proteins in chloroplasts, because many non-chloroplast proteins have been detected in chloroplast fractions. The GFP data indicated that even the putative CPRENDOs that were not predicted to be chloroplast proteins by targeting prediction or that had not been detected in chloroplasts by mass spectrometry were indeed localized to chloroplasts. We conclude, therefore, that we identified 54 CPRENDOs.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The transcript level of the genes encoding the 56 proteins (CPREs) was also analyzed by RNA gel blot analysis. The transcript level of 36 genes was elevated in the light as compared with in the dark, suggesting light-promoted expression of these genes (Fig. 2, Table 2 and Supplementary Fig. S1). Table 3 summarizes the targeting and expression analyses. Among the 56 candidate proteins, 38 (= 34 + 4) showed both chloroplast localization and light-promoted expression. Disruptants of the corresponding genes (called sCPRE) were prepared in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 by homologous recombination using a kanamycin resistance cassette from pUC4K. Among the 43 genes, 33 were knocked out, while seven genes were not completely disrupted and are likely to be essential. Constructs for three genes could not be made despite repeated attempts, either because of experimental failure or due to sequence differences in the strain used. The kinetics of fluorescence induction were measured for all the mutants as an initial survey (Supplementary Fig. S2). The abbreviation ‘FI’ in Fig. 3 indicates that the kinetics was different in the mutant. To analyze the kinetic properties of photosynthesis in more detail, we performed pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorescence analysis (for a review, see Schreiber CITATION) on selected mutants. These included the mutants that showed some differences in the fluorescence kinetics (FI), and several apparently normal mutants. Representative traces for the PAM analysis are shown in Fig. 4. The maximal level of fluorescence (Fm) was obtained by the addition of DCMU at the end of each measurement (Fujimori et al. CITATION). A disruptant of sCPRE36 showed significantly reduced Fv′ while retaining F and Fm values. A disruptant of sCPRE30 showed an elevated level of F, thus exhibiting very low Fv/Fm. Traces from PAM analysis for all 28 mutants analyzed are presented in Supplementary Fig. S3, and the results are summarized in Fig. 3. The mutants that showed normal fluorescence kinetics in the initial survey were not, in principle, analyzed by PAM. This was justified by the fact that six such ‘normal’ mutants (sCPRE 5, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 19) were also normal in the PAM analysis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Eleven mutants showed both increased qN and decreased ΦPSII. Two others showed elevated qN, while two others showed reduced ΦPSII. These 15 mutants also showed other symptoms in qP, NPQ, Fv/Fm or F0′/Fm. These results suggested that the mutants had defects in photosynthetic electron transport or photosystems. The results of oxygen evolution and spectral analysis are summarized in Table 4. Oxygen evolution activity (per Chl) was low in three mutants, whereas seven mutants showed elevated O2 evolution per Chl. This must be due to a reduced content of Chl, most probably the antenna Chl of PSI. The ratio of carotenoid to Chl and the ratio of phycobilin to Chl, as estimated from the absorbance ratio, A492/A680 and A626/A680, respectively, were also affected in 18 mutants. It should be noted that the five mutants that did not show significant difference in PAM fluorescence showed changes in the absorption spectrum. Interestingly, the seven mutants that have not been completely segregated did show phenotypes in PAM fluorescence, oxygen evolution or pigment composition.  T-DNA insertion lines (tag-lines) of A. thaliana that tagged the CPRE genes were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) and analyzed. Among the 37 CPRE groups, we obtained data for 18 groups (Fig. 3), while results on eight other mutants were reported during the course of the present study (see the next section). Mutants were not obtained for seven CPREs because no T-DNA insertion lines were available in the stock centers, and only heterozygous lines were obtained for four CPREs. Mutants of a gene of CPRE27 (At1g65420) had variegated cotyledons and foliage leaves (Fig. 5B, C). A mutant of CPRE16 (At1g68590) had non-green cotyledons on sucrose-containing medium (Fig. 5D). PAM analysis showed that mutants of nine CPREs had some defects in photosynthesis (Fig. 3 and Supplementary Fig. S4). Representative traces for the PAM analysis are shown in Fig. 6. In our current analysis, 17 out of 30 CPREs (except for CPREs without tag-line stocks) indeed showed phenotypes that were considered as being related to photosynthesis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] This project began 5 years ago and, during this time, some of the proteins have been characterized in detail and the reports have been published (Fig. 3). These are PIC1/Tic21 (iron transporter or translocon component: CPRE6, Teng et al. CITATION, Duy et al. CITATION), NDF4 [NAD(P)H dehydrogenase component: CPRE11, Takabayashi et al. CITATION], Tab2/ATAB2 (RNA-binding protein involved in psaB translation: CPRE5, Dauvillée et al. CITATION, Barneche et al. CITATION), Psb29/THF1 (PSII component involved in thylakoid formation: CPRE19, Wang et al. CITATION, Keren et al. CITATION), PcyA/PebB/HY2 (phytochromobilin/phycobilin biosynthesis enzyme: CPRE26, Kohchi et al. CITATION, Frankenberg and Lagarias CITATION), CCB1 (CPRE32) and CCB3 (CPRE18) (cytochrome c biogenesis enzyme involved in b6f complex assembly: Lezhneva et al. CITATION) and NifU/NFU2/NFU3 (iron–sulfur cluster assembly enzyme: CPRE35, Nishio and Nakai CITATION, Léon et al. CITATION, Touraine et al. CITATION). Some other proteins were found to be homologs of proteins in other organisms, such as NnrU homolog (nitric oxide reductase: CPRE23, Bartnikas et al. CITATION), VKOR homolog (vitamin K epoxide reductase: CPRE10, Goodstadt and Ponting CITATION), ClpS homolog (component of Clp machinery in Escherichia coli: CPRE2, Dougan et al. CITATION) and yggH homolog (tRNA methyltransferase: CPRE37, De Bie et al. CITATION). APE1 (uncharacterized protein involved in acclimation to high light: CPRE22, Walters et al. CITATION) was described as a gene involved in a light acclimation defect, but biochemical analysis of the protein was not reported. CDF1 (CPRE29, Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION) was described only as a transgene in yeast cells. Other proteins that have Ycf numbers or annotations have not been analyzed in plants to date. Curiously, mutants in Psb29/THF1 and APE1 did not show detectable phenotypes in Synechocystis using the method of analysis and growth conditions in the study reported here. According to the publications on these proteins, the mutants showed phenotypes at high light conditions. This suggests that more of the mutants that were analyzed in the present study may show phenotypes under high light or other extreme conditions.
!~MM~! The genomes used in the present study are summarized in Supplementary Table S1. The sequence data were assembled as of December 2002. We also have more recent data (ALL95 in Table 1); however, the analyses reported in the present article were based on the data of 2002. The Gclust software version 3.0 was used to construct protein clusters by single-linkage clustering at a threshold E-value, such as 10–8, 10–12 or 10–20. The details of data processing were described in previous papers (Sato CITATION, Sato et al. CITATION). For the estimation of CPRENDOs, the clusters that had at least one member of each in the eight cyanobacteria, the plant and the red alga, but had no members belonging to non-photosynthetic organisms or non-oxygenic photosynthetic bacteria, were selected. Prediction of intracellular targeting was performed for the selected Arabidopsis protein sequences using the TargetP server version 1.01 at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/(Emanuelsson et al. CITATION), the WoLF PSORT at http://wolfpsort.org/(Horton et al. CITATION) and the Predotar at http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/predotar/predotar.html (Small et al. CITATION). Wild-type and mutant A. thaliana were grown on 0.8% agar-solidified MS medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) or on soil at 22°C under continuous illumination with fluorescent lamps (80 μmol m–2 s–1). T-DNA-tagged mutants of Arabidopsis were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA) or the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (University of Nottingham, Loughborough, UK). Wild-type (glucose-tolerant strain) and mutants of Synechocystis were grown at 30°C in BG-11 medium (Rippka et al. CITATION) supplemented by 5 mM sodium bicarbonate and 5 mM HEPES/NaOH (pH 7.5) under continuous illumination with fluorescent lamps (50 μmol m–2 s–1). Liquid cultures were aerated with 1.0% CO2 in air. Targeting of selected A. thaliana proteins was experimentally analyzed using the GFP fusion technique. A construct for the expression of a transit peptide or a full-length protein fused with GFP was prepared for each selected protein by repeated PCR. The standard PCR was done in a 100 μl reaction with 2.5 U of ExTaq (TAKARA Biomedicals, Kyoto, Japan) according to the program of 30 cycles, each consisting of denaturation at 93°C for 40 s, annealing at 55°C for 2 min and extension at 72°C for 2 min. After the final cycle, extension for 10 min was performed. First, the following three fragments were amplified by standard PCR: (1) the upstream half of the GFP vector containing the 35S promoter region plus a short connecting sequence A at its 3′ end; (2) the putative targeting sequence with a short connecting sequence A at its 5′ end and a short connecting sequence B at its 3′ end; and (3) the sGFP sequence with a short connecting sequence B at its 5′ end. The connecting sequences A and B were used to join two PCR fragments by PCR. For the amplification of fragments (1) and (3), the sGFP vector (Chiu et al. CITATION) was used as a template. The primers for the amplification of fragment (1) were: primer 1, ccctcagaagaccagagggctattgagact; and primer 2, ggatcctctagagtcgac. The primers for the amplification of fragment (3) were: primer 3, atggtgagcaagggcgag or gtgagcaagggcgaggag; and primer 4, tctcatgtttgacagcttatcatcggatct. The underlined sequences represent connecting sequences A and B, respectively. The primers used for amplifying fragment (2) varied with the genes to be amplified and are summarized in Supplementary Table S3. In the second PCR, purified fragments (1), (2) and (3) were mixed and connected by amplification in a condition slightly different from the standard one, i.e. the annealing temperature was 50°C. The amount of fragment (2) was twice as high as that of fragments (1) or (3). The final product (1–2–3) was further amplified for use in particle bombardment. Tungsten particles (1 μm in diameter) were coated with the DNA and then introduced into scaly leaves of onion bulb by the He-driven particle delivery system PDS-1000/He (BioRad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA), using rupture disks for 650 p.s.i. After incubating for 24 h at 25°C in dim light, the epidermis was peeled and examined under a fluorescence microscope (Olympus model BX-60) with an IB cube. For the control of chloroplast and mitochondrial proteins, cpRbcS (Lee et al. CITATION) and mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit δ (Moriyama et al. CITATION) were used, respectively. Seedlings of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia were grown on 0.2% agar-solidified MS medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) for 7 d under light (50 μE m–2 s–1) or in darkness. Shoots were harvested, rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at –80°C until use. Digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled probes for the RNA gel blot analysis were prepared by PCR using a DIG-PCR labeling mixture (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). The primers are listed in Supplementary Table S3. Preparation of total RNA, glyoxylation, electrophoresis, blotting to a nylon membrane and hybridization were done as described previously (Sekine et al. CITATION). The band was finally visualized by chemiluminescence of CDP-Star (Roche Diagnostics). The genes for CPRE were individually disrupted in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 by homologous recombination using a PCR-based disruption cassette. The method was described in a recent publication (Sakurai et al. CITATION). The primers are listed in Supplementary Table S4. Complete segregation was confirmed by PCR analysis using the upF and dnR primers. In some cases, complete segregation was not attained, but the partial mutants showing phenotypes were analyzed along with the complete disruptants. PAM fluorescence analysis was performed with Fluorescence Monitoring System FMS1 (Hansatech Instruments Ltd., Norfolk, UK). In the analysis of Arabisopsis, leaves of 30-day-old wild type or mutants grown on soil under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle at 23°C were used. Modulated measuring light at 594 nm was used at a setting 2 with gain 70. Actinic light with a setting 15 (corresponding to a fluence rate of 80 μmol m–2 s–1) was used to drive photosynthesis. Pulses (0.8 s) of white light at a setting 100 (fluence rate of 8,000 μmol m–2 s–1) at 30 s intervals were applied to obtain maximal fluorescence. The kinetics of fluorescence induction in Synechocystis were measured as described (Fujimori et al. CITATION). The results were used to select candidates for further analysis. In the PAM analysis of Synechocystis, exponentially growing cells (A750 ∼0.5) were used. Modulated light was used at a setting 1 with gain 70. Actinic light with a setting 15 and a series of 0.2 s saturating pulses was applied. At the end of each measurement, DCMU (10 μM) was added with an actinic light at a setting 30 to obtain Fm. Oxygen evolution of Synechocystis cells was measured polarographically in Oxytherm with an Oxygraph controller (Hansatech Instruments Ltd.). Absorption spectra of Synechocystis cells were measured by the ‘opal glass’ method using a Shimadzu UV160 spectrophotometer. Two sheets of Parafilm were used as a light scatterer, and the cuvettes were placed just in front of the light detectors. Chlorophyll was determined in a 90% methanol extract at 665 nm using the absorption coefficient 12.7 mM–1 cm–1.
