!~ABS~! Regulated cell division is critical for the development of multi-cellular organisms. In the Arabidopsis root, SCARECROW (SCR) is required for the first cell division, but represses the subsequent, longitudinal asymmetric cell divisions that generate the two cell types of the ground tissue – cortex and endodermis. To elucidate the molecular basis of the role of SCR in ground tissue patterning, we screened for SCR-interacting proteins using the yeast two-hybrid method. A number of putative SCR-interacting proteins were identified, among them LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN 1 (LHP1). In lhp1 mutants, a second longitudinal asymmetric cell division occurs in the ground tissue earlier than in wild-type plants. Similar to the scr mutant, this premature middle cortex phenotype is suppressed by the phytohormone gibberellin (GA). We provide evidence that the N-terminal domain of SCR is required for the interaction between SCR and LHP1 as well as with other interacting partners, and that this domain is essential for repression of asymmetric cell divisions. Consistent with a role for GA in cortex proliferation, mutants of key GA signaling components produce a middle cortex precociously. Intriguingly, we found that the spindly (spy) mutant has a similar middle cortex phenotype. As SPY homologs in animals physically interact with histone deacetylase, we examined the role of histone deacetylation in middle cortex formation. We show that inhibition of histone deacetylase activity causes premature middle cortex formation in wild-type roots. Together, these results suggest that epigenetic regulation is probably the common basis for SCR and GA activity in cortex cell proliferation.
!~RES~! Using the yeast two-hybrid method with an Arabidopsis root-specific cDNA library, we identified a number of putative SCR-interacting proteins (Table 1). Previously we showed that SCR interacts with SHR through its central domain (CD), which spans the VHIID motif and the two flanking leucine-rich heptad repeats (CITATION) (Figure 1c). We therefore examined the interaction with various domains of SCR. Interestingly, we found that, in yeast cells, all the putative SCR-interacting proteins interact specifically with the N-terminal domain (ND) of SCR. This observation suggests that the ND may be important for SCR function. Recently we have demonstrated that nuclear localization is critical for the restriction of SHR movement by SCR, resulting in a single layer of endodermis (CITATION). We therefore examined the subcellular localization of the SCR domains, first using a transient assay (see Experimental procedures). As shown in Figure 1(d), the GFP–ND fusion protein was detected only in the nucleus, whereas the GFP–CD protein was present in both the nucleus and cytoplasm, similar to the freely diffusible GFP protein expressed from 35S::GFP. In contrast, a GFP fusion protein with the C-terminal domain (GFP–PS) appeared to be excluded from the nucleus. These results confirm predictions by previous domain-swap experiments (CITATION). As the fusion proteins have similar sizes (57, 52 and 46 kDa, respectively), their distinct subcellular localization probably reflects the intrinsic properties of the various SCR domains. To assess their in vivo function, we then expressed the fusion proteins under the control of the SCR promoter in plants. The subcellular localization of the ND and PS domains was the same as observed in the transient assays, but the GFP–CD fusion protein in most transgenic lines was mostly localized in the nucleus (Figure 1e). Interestingly, we found that some transgenic lines expressing the GFP–ND fusion protein (3 of 10 examined) produced an extra ground tissue layer within 1 week of germination. The extra cell layer in GFP–ND-expressing plants appears to be middle cortex, as indicated by the reduction of GFP expression from the SCR promoter (Figure 1e). Premature middle cortex formation was not observed in any plants expressing the CD or PS domain. As the transgenic plants described above are in the wild-type background, the premature middle cortex phenotype could arise as a consequence of the ND activating cell division or alternatively interfering with the full-length SCR protein. To distinguish between these possibilities, we next over-expressed the GFP–ND fusion protein in the scr4 mutant. The scr mutant phenotype was not rescued, suggesting that the ND itself does not have the ability to activate cell division. To further examine the function of the ND, we deleted it from SCR and expressed the truncated protein as a GFP fusion under the control of the SCR promoter. Interestingly, there was a normal radial pattern in both the wild-type background and the scr mutant. Some plants (6 of 20) in the scr background also produced a middle cortex layer within the first week of germination (Figure 1e, pSCR::GFP-SCRΔND/scr-4). This is significant, because wild-type roots do not produce middle cortex at this stage of development (P = 0.02, Fisher’s exact test). We next performed a time-course study and found that these plants produced a middle cortex at 3 days after germination, but not at 2 days. This suggests that the Arabidopsis root has the potential to produce middle cortex during early seedling growth. These results indicate that the C-terminal region of SCR is sufficient to activate asymmetric cell divisions of the CEID, but the ND is required to repress further cell divisions. To determine how the ND of SCR regulates middle cortex formation, we next analyzed the function of putative SCR-interacting proteins. Preliminary observations indicated that a T-DNA insertional mutation in most of the putative interactor genes did not result in obvious radial patterning defects under normal growth conditions. Interestingly, SALK_011762 (CITATION), which has a T-DNA insert in the LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN 1 (LHP1) gene, not only shows severe growth defects in the shoot and an early flowering time as previously described (CITATION), but also has a premature middle cortex phenotype (Figure 2a). This phenotype was also observed in the well-characterized lhp1-4 mutant (CITATION), indicating that LHP1, like SCR, has a role in the timing of middle cortex formation. Consistent with this hypothesized function, we found that LHP1 is highly expressed in the meristem and elongation zone of the Arabidopsis root, as indicated by the expression of a genomic fusion between the LHP1 gene and the coding sequence for GFP (Figure 2b). The premature middle cortex phenotype in the lhp1 mutant is unlikely to be due to poor growth, as the lhp1 mutant seedlings have nearly normal root length and premature middle cortex formation was not seen in the sly1-10 mutant or wild-type seedlings treated with ABA, cytokinin or 5′-aza-cytidine (5-aza-dC), all of which severely retard root growth (see below). [[FIGURE]] The observation that lhp1 and scr mutants have a similar middle cortex phenotype is consistent with the notion that LHP1 and SCR physically interact with each other. If LHP1 and SCR act together in the control of cortex cell proliferation, they are expected to share a common set of target genes, especially those involved in cell division. To test this hypothesis, we performed ChIP–PCR with LHP1 and SCR to determine whether they bind to the promoter of MGP, a previously confirmed SCR target (CITATION) that appears to have a role in ground tissue patterning (CITATION). As shown in Figure 2(c), LHP1 binds as well as SCR does to the MGP promoter. The binding profiles for LHP1 and SCR overlap considerably. Next we performed quantitative RT–PCR and found that the expression levels of MGP and SCR are increased in the lhp1 mutant (Figure 2d), suggesting that LHP1 normally represses MGP and SCR transcription. These results together lend support to the conclusion that LHP1 and SCR act together to suppress premature middle cortex formation. In subsequent experiments, we found that roots from freshly harvested lhp1 seeds have a normal radial pattern. As fresh seeds are known to have a high level of GA (CITATION) and middle cortex formation can be suppressed by GA (CITATION), this observation raised the possibility that the lhp1 mutants might have reduced GA production or signaling. To investigate this possibility, we compared the radial pattern in lhp1 and wild-type roots after treatment with GA or with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (Pac). We found that middle cortex formation in the lhp1 mutants was completely suppressed by GA at 50 μm, and that Pac at 10 μm caused middle cortex formation in nearly all lhp1 mutant roots (19 of 20 examined) but in none of the wild-type roots (P = 3e−10, Fisher’s exact test). These results suggest that LHP1 and SCR might suppress premature cortex proliferation by a similar mechanism in which GA has a dominant role. As the phytohormones GA and ABA have antagonistic roles in many aspects of plant growth and development (CITATION), we asked whether ABA treatment could cause premature middle cortex formation. Precocious middle cortex formation was not observed in ABA treatment studies, even at a concentration of 10 μm when root growth was seriously compromised. In contrast, ABA appears to suppress middle cortex formation, because after 2 weeks of germination, when nearly all untreated plants have produced a middle cortex, few seedlings (1 of 10) treated with 1 μm ABA have a middle cortex layer (P = 7e−7, Fisher’s exact test). These results suggest that GA has an ABA-independent role at least in the promotion of middle cortex formation. To understand the molecular basis of GA signaling in cortex cell proliferation, we analyzed the role of GA signaling components in root radial patterning. As expected, the GA receptor mutant gid1a gid1b gid1c (gid1), which cannot transduce GA signals (CITATION) and the GA-insensitive mutant rgaΔ17, which blocks GA signaling transduction (CITATION), both show a premature middle cortex phenotype, even in seedlings from freshly harvested seeds (Figure 3a,b). Surprisingly, we found that the sly1-10 mutant, in which the DELLA protein RGA as well as other DELLA proteins cannot be degraded (CITATION), has a normal ground tissue pattern, even at 12 days after germination (data not shown). According to an Arabidopsis root gene expression map (CITATION), SLY1 is preferentially expressed in the stele, hence it is possible that other SLY homologs are responsible for DELLA protein degradation in the ground tissue. Interestingly, the closest SLY homolog, SNE (CITATION), is preferentially expressed in the endodermis and the QC, and we therefore examined its role in middle cortex formation. As no SNE mutant has been characterized so far, we first obtained a T-DNA insertional line, FLAG_461E03 (CITATION), which harbors a T-DNA insert within the only exon of the gene. Compared to wild-type plants, FLAG_461E03 seedlings have slightly shorter roots on normal MS medium, but this phenotype is enhanced when the water content of the medium is reduced (Figure S2). We named this T-DNA line sne-1. The sne-1 mutant seeds are also hypersensitive to Pac, as they do not germinate on MS medium containing 1 μm Pac (Figure S2), indicating GA signaling defects. Nevertheless, we did not observe any obvious radial patterning defects in the mutant root (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Intriguingly, premature middle cortex formation was observed in the spy mutant (Figure 3c). All mutant alleles examined, including spy-3, spy-4 and spy-8 (CITATION; CITATION), showed a similar middle cortex phenotype. This result is unexpected, because the spy mutant is believed to have an elevated level of GA signaling (CITATION; CITATION). The premature middle cortex phenotype in the spy mutant was not rescued by exogenous application of Pac or GA. Because cytokinin signaling is compromised in the spy mutant (CITATION), we next treated spy mutants with cytokinins, but were unable to rescue the middle cortex phenotype. We did not detect any radial patterning defects in the sec mutants, indicating that SECRET AGENT (SEC), the closest SPY homolog in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION), does not play a major role in ground tissue patterning. As SPY encodes an O-GlcNAc transferase, it may affect ground tissue patterning by modulating the expression patterns or activities of key cell-fate determinants such as SHR and SCR, either through its effect on GA signaling or through post-translational modifications. To test this hypothesis, we first examined the expression of pSCR::GFP and pSHR::SHR-GFP (CITATION) in the spy-3 background. Neither the expression pattern nor the subcellular localization of SHR and SCR appeared to be altered in the spy mutant (Figure 3d–f). We also examined protein–protein interactions using the yeast two-hybrid method, but did not detect any interaction between SPY and SHR or SCR, suggesting that SHR and SCR are unlikely to be SPY substrates. In animals, the SPY homolog is present in a Sin3 repressor complex and physically interacts with histone deacetylases (HDACs) (CITATION). This observation raises the possibility that SPY may also interact with HDACs in plants and regulate middle cortex formation through an epigenetic regulatory mechanism. As LHP1 is known to repress gene expression through modification of chromatin structure (CITATION; CITATION), the physical association between SCR and LHP1, together with the similar middle cortex phenotypes in scr and lhp1, lends support to this hypothesis. To test the role of histone deacetylation in cortex proliferation, we treated wild-type roots with trichostatin A (TSA), a specific HDAC inhibitor. At a concentration of 0.5 μg ml−1, TSA caused a third layer of ground tissue in some of the roots examined (5 of 15), and 1 μg ml−1 TSA caused an extra layer of ground tissue in all 20 roots examined (Figure 4a). The number of endodermal cell files that generated an extra cell layer was also dramatically increased by 1 μg ml−1 TSA, in some cases reaching six (Figure 4b). While the concentration of TSA required to completely inhibit HDAC activity in the ground tissue appears high, it is consistent with that used in a recent report showing root hair growth from non-root hair cells after TSA treatment (CITATION). To determine the identity of this extra cell layer, we examined expression of the cortex and endodermis markers, pCO:HYFP and pEn7:HYFP, after TSA treatment. This analysis clearly showed that the extra cell layer is cortex (Figure S3). [[FIGURE]] However, TSA treatment also caused abnormal cell divisions in the QC and surrounding stem cells (Figure 4a), as well as decreased root growth. To determine whether the middle cortex induced by TSA is due to a disorganized QC, we conducted a time-course study of middle cortex formation after transfer of 3-day-old seedlings grown on regular MS medium to MS medium containing 1 μg ml−1 TSA. Although the QC and initial cells appeared normal even 48 h after TSA treatment, a middle cortex layer was already apparent after 24 h on TSA (Figure 4). Notably, middle cortex cells were produced randomly along the endodermis cell file, suggesting that the effects of TSA on the QC and middle cortex are uncoupled. To determine whether TSA causes premature middle cortex formation by reducing the level of GA, we treated roots simultaneously with 1 μg ml−1 TSA and 100 μm GA. The presence of GA did not alleviate the effect of TSA on either middle cortex formation or root growth. We also treated roots with 5-aza-dC, which inhibits DNA methylation (5-methylcytosine). Although 1 μm 5-aza-dC inhibited root length to a greater extent than 1 μg ml−1 TSA did, it did not alter the radial pattern. These results indicate that reduced root growth is not the cause of premature middle cortex formation after TSA treatment; instead, it suggests a key role of histone deacetylation in this process.
!~MM~! Unless specified otherwise, all Arabidopsis plants used in this study are in the Columbia ecotype. After sterilization, seeds were sown and allowed to germinate on 1% w/v MS agar plates positioned vertically in an incubator set at 22°C with 16 h daily illumination. For GA, TSA and 5′-aza-dC treatments, seeds were sown on a piece of nylon mesh (NITEX, catalog number 03–100/47, Sefar Infiltration Inc., http://www.devicelink.com/company/ivdt/co/01/198.html) placed on a MS plate containing the chemical at the desired concentration. For paclobutrazol (Pac) treatment, seeds were first germinated for 4 days on regular MS plates, and the seedlings were allowed to grow for two more days after addition of 1 ml of 100 μm Pac to the plate or after transfer of the seedling together with the nylon mesh to a MS plate containing 10 μm Pac. ABA treatment was performed similarly by transferring seedlings to MS plates supplemented with 1, 2, 5 or 10 μm ABA. ABA, BA, GA, trichostatin A and 5′-aza-cytidine were purchased from Sigma (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/), and paclobutrazol was purchased from PhytoTechnology Laboratories (http://www.phytotechlab.com). The transgenic lines carrying pSCR::GFP-SCR, pSCR::GFP and pSHR::SHR-GFP have been described previously (CITATION). An Arabidopsis root-specific cDNA library was screened using the MATCHMAKER two-hybrid system 3 (BD Biosciences, http://www.bdbiosciences.com). The SCR bait construct pGBKT7-SCR has been described previously (CITATION). Approximately 2 million colonies were screened, and positive clones were selected based on their growth on histidine drop-out medium and β-galactosidase activity. Approximately 400 putative clones were sequenced, and the list of putative SCR interactors shown in Table 1 was compiled based on the strength of interactions (reporter activity), the number of matches, as well as in-frame fusion between the corresponding cDNA sequence and the Gal4 activation domain sequence, with common false-positive proteins subtracted. Each putative interacting protein was individually confirmed using the same reporter assay. Plasmid purification from yeast cells and re-transformation were performed using standard protocols. To clone the constructs for the transient assay, the sequences encoding the ND, CD and PS domains of SCR were obtained as NdeI–SalI fragments from the pGBKT7–ND, pGBKT7–CD and pGBKT7–PS plasmids (CITATION), and, together with an SpeI–AseI fragment from pBS-10–3 containing the GFP coding sequence, were subcloned into the SpeI–SalI site of the pBC-SK vector, giving rise to pBC-GFP-ND, pBC–GFP–CD and pBC-GFP-PS plasmids, respectively. The GFP–ND and GFP–PS coding sequences were then subcloned as XbaI–SmaI fragments into pBI221 cut with XbaI and SacI and blunt-ended using the Klenow enzyme, resulting in the final constructs pBI221-35S::GFP-ND and pBI221-35S::GFP-PS. Due to the presence of an XbaI site within the CD region, to produce the pBI221-35S::GFP-CD construct, the GFP–CD coding sequence was subcloned as an SpeI–SmaI fragment into the pBI221 vector. To express the GFP fusion proteins in plants, their expression cassettes were cut as SpeI–BamHI fragments from pBI221-35::GFP-ND, pBI221-35S::GFP-CD and pBI221-35S::GFP-PS, with the SpeI site blunt-ended by the Klenow enzyme, and then subcloned into the SmaI–BamHI sites of the pSCR::NosT vector. The resulting plasmids were named pSCR::GFP-ND, pSCR::GFP-CD and pSCR::GFP-PS, respectively. To clone the pSCR::GFP-SCRΔND construct, the sequence coding the CD and PS domain plus part of the endogenous 3′ UTR sequence was PCR-amplified from the pBS-SCR-NF plasmid using Phusion high-fidelity DNA polymerase (NeBiolabs, http://www.neb.com) and the primers SCR-GRAS-FW (5′-CTACTAGTCATATGCAAGACGAAGAAGGATTACACC-3′) and SCR-PS3′ (5′-AAAGAATTCCAATCAGGTAGCCAATA-3′). After purification and restriction digestion by NdeI and EcoRI, the truncated SCR sequence (SCRΔND) was subcloned into the pBBKT7 vector at the same restriction sites, resulting in pGBKT7-GPS3′. Subsequent cloning of the GFP–SCR expression construct was performed using the same strategy as for the pSCR::GFP-CD plasmid. The primers for genotyping T-DNA knockout lines were as follows: for Salk_011762, primers LHP1_LP (5′-ACGCGATTACCTTGATTCACC-3′) and LHP1_RP (5′-CTAAAGGCTCCCATGTGTTGG-3′) were used, and for FLAG_461E03, primers SLY2_LP (5′-AGAAACAAGAACCACCCAACC-3′) and SLY2_RP1 (5′-TCAATGAAAATTAGTGAAGGCC-3′) were used. The transient gene expression assay for subcellular localization of SCR domains was performed using with a biolistic delivery system (BioRad, http://www.biorad.com). After coating with plasmids pBI221-35S::GFP-ND, pBI221-35S::GFP-CD and pBI221-35S::GFP-PS, gold particles (1.0 μm gold microcarriers, Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/; catalog number 165-2263) were bombarded onto fresh onion epidermal cells on a 1% MS agar plate using 1100 psi rupture disks (Bio-Rad, catalog number 165-2329). GFP fluorescence was visualized using a Leica epifluorescence microscope (http://www.leica.com) with a narrow-band GFP filter. A Zeiss 510 upright confocal microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/) was used to image root samples. The ChIP-quantitative PCR assay as well as the transgenic lines pSCR::GFP-SCR (CITATION) and gLHP1::GFP (CITATION) used to determine SCR and LHP1 binding has been described previously (CITATION). After ChIP, various regions of the MGP promoter were PCR-amplified from both the mock (no antibody) and ChIP samples, and the fold enrichment was calculated as the ratio between the Ct values for each DNA fragment after normalization against the 18S signal.
