!~ABS~! Membrane trafficking plays a fundamental role in eukaryotic cell biology. Of the numerous known or predicted protein components of the plant cell trafficking system, only a relatively small subset have been characterized with respect to their biological roles in plant growth, development, and response to stresses. In this study, we investigated the subcellular localization and function of an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) small GTPase belonging to the RabE family. RabE proteins are phylogenetically related to well-characterized regulators of polarized vesicle transport from the Golgi apparatus to the plasma membrane in animal and yeast cells. The RabE family of GTPases has also been proposed to be a putative host target of AvrPto, an effector protein produced by the plant pathogen Pseudomonas syringae, based on yeast two-hybrid analysis. We generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively expressed one of the five RabE proteins (RabE1d) fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). GFP-RabE1d and endogenous RabE proteins were found to be associated with the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis leaf cells. RabE down-regulation, due to cosuppression in transgenic plants, resulted in drastically altered leaf morphology and reduced plant size, providing experimental evidence for an important role of RabE GTPases in regulating plant growth. RabE down-regulation did not affect plant susceptibility to pathogenic P. syringae bacteria; conversely, expression of the constitutively active RabE1d-Q74L enhanced plant defenses, conferring resistance to P. syringae infection.
!~RES~! We conducted a Y2H screening of two separate Arabidopsis cDNA libraries, using AvrPto as bait. Several AvrPto-interacting Arabidopsis proteins were identified, including a member of the RabE family of small GTPases (At5g59840), a putative cytoplasmic kinase (At4g11890), an auxin signaling repressor, IAA7 (At3g23050), two hypothetical proteins (At3g26600 and At5g16840), and several putatively chloroplast- or mitochondria-targeted proteins. The interaction with the small GTPase RabE was particularly interesting because RabE was predicted to be membrane localized, as is AvrPto (CITATION; CITATION), and, as mentioned above, because screening of a tomato cDNA library had also yielded two AvrPto-interacting proteins homologous to Rab8 (CITATION), the mammalian counterpart of Arabidopsis RabE. To characterize the specificity of the AvrPto-RabE interaction, we investigated whether AvrPto interacts with other members of the RabE family and with other Rab proteins. Of the other Arabidopsis Rab protein families (i.e. RabA to -D, -F, and -G), we cloned and expressed in yeast RabA1a, -B1b, -C1, -D2a, -F2a, and -G3a; none of these representatives interacted with AvrPto in the Y2H system (Fig. 1A ). Of the five RabE genes, all but RabE1c were successfully cloned and expressed in yeast. All four RabE proteins tested (RabE1a, -b, -d, and -e) interacted with AvrPto (Fig. 1B). Thus, it appears that AvrPto interacts specifically with the Arabidopsis RabE family of GTPases. [[FIGURE]] Small GTPases normally cycle between the active GTP-bound and the inactive GDP-bound states. Mutation of highly conserved residues can be used to alter the nucleotide binding and hydrolysis activities of Rab proteins (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). The mutant forms RabE1d-S29N (predicted to be GDP bound) and RabE1d-Q74L (predicted to be GTP bound) were engineered. In the Y2H system, AvrPto interacted only with wild-type RabE1d or with GTP-restricted RabE1d-Q74L but not with GDP-restricted RabE1d-S29N (Fig. 1C), suggesting that AvrPto preferably binds to the active form. Analysis of the Arabidopsis genome showed that 44 of the 57 Rab genes reside in duplicated regions. Of the five RabE genes, RabE1d and -E1e appear to be derived from a major duplication event between chromosomes III and V, and the same holds true for RabE1b and -E1c (CITATION; Fig. 2A ). The high degree of sequence identity among the five RabE proteins, equal to or higher than 86%, suggests functional redundancy. However, members of a gene family could be preferentially expressed in different tissues, at specific developmental stages, or in response to stresses. We used the Genevestigator Gene Atlas Tool (CITATION) to investigate whether this is the case with the five RabE genes. The in silico analysis revealed that all five genes are expressed in all Arabidopsis tissues and developmental stages. RabE1d and -E1e (encoding 94% identical proteins) are the only two gene family members whose expression is much lower in pollen than in all other tissues. Based on publicly available microarray data (Genevestigator; CITATION), RabE1d appeared to be the most highly expressed RabE gene in Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) rosette leaves, followed by RabE1c. The RabE1a, -E1e, and -E1b genes had the lowest expression levels (Fig. 2B). We conducted reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis on rosette leaf total RNA and confirmed a high expression level for RabE1d (Fig. 2C). [[FIGURE]] To investigate potential up- or down-regulation of the RabE family members in response to pathogens or other stresses, we analyzed the expression patterns of the RabE genes with the AtGenExpress Visualization Tool (http://jsp.weigelworld.org/expviz/expviz.jsp; CITATION) across several publicly available microarray data sets. None of the five genes appeared to be significantly (more than 2.5-fold) up- or down-regulated in response to pathogens or elicitors. In the absence of any expression-based indication of whether the five RabE proteins have redundant or distinct functions, we chose the highly expressed RabE1d (At5g03520) for further study. All Rab proteins are normally present in cells in two pools, one cytoplasmic and the other membrane associated (CITATION). Nucleotide-binding state and interaction with accessory proteins determine whether a Rab is in the cytosol or the membrane at any given time. A hallmark feature of Rab proteins is that they localize to the specific membrane compartments in which they function. It was previously reported that Arabidopsis RabE1d, when transiently and heterologously expressed in tobacco epidermal cells as a fusion with yellow fluorescent protein, was detected in the Golgi apparatus and in the cytoplasm (CITATION). To determine RabE localization in native Arabidopsis cells, we created stable transgenic plants that express RabE1d fused with enhanced GFP under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. By convention, GFP was fused to the N terminus of RabE1d to preserve the C-terminal CAAX geranylgeranylation site that is critical for membrane association and function (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). Several independent transgenic lines were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). GFP fluorescence was observed not only in intracellular punctate structures, consistent with the Golgi apparatus, as detected in heterologous tobacco cells (CITATION), but also prominently at the cell periphery (Fig. 3, A–E ). [[FIGURE]] Leaf epidermal cells typically contain a very large vacuole that accounts for most of the cell volume. Fluorescence detected at the cell periphery may represent the PM, the vacuolar membrane (tonoplast), or the thin layer of cytoplasm that is between the PM and the tonoplast. To more precisely determine whether GFP-RabE1d was also localized at the PM, we stained live leaf tissue with the lipophylic dye FM4-64 (CITATION; CITATION). FM4-64 produces a bright red fluorescence in membranes but not in aqueous solutions and is rapidly incorporated into the PM. It is often used in microscopy as an endocytic tracker, because it is retained in the portions of PM that are internalized by endocytosis (CITATION). Within the first 15 to 30 min after incorporation (depending on the system used), FM4-64 selectively stains the PM. CLSM analysis revealed a precise overlap of GFP-RabE1d fluorescence with FM4-64 fluorescence immediately after staining, indicating that RabE1d is associated with the plasma membrane (Fig. 3D). To investigate whether the punctate structures labeled by GFP-RabE1d correspond to the Golgi apparatus, we examined colocalization with rat sialyl transferase, a Golgi marker protein (CITATION), fused to DsRed (ST-RFP). ST-RFP was transiently expressed in the GFP-RabE1d transgenic leaves via particle bombardment. Observation of cells coexpressing GFP-RabE1d and ST-RFP revealed overlapping fluorescence signals, confirming RabE1d's association with the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 3E). Taken together, our analysis of GFP-RabE1d localization revealed that, in the native Arabidopsis leaf cells, membrane-associated RabE1d is found not only in the Golgi apparatus, as reported previously in heterologous tobacco cells, but also in the PM. GFP-RabE1d expression in the transgenic plants was driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S constitutive promoter. To exclude the possibility that the observed RabE localization reflects patterns of only the transgenically expressed protein, we conducted additional analyses to determine the localization of endogenous RabE in transgenic as well as wild-type Arabidopsis plants. We performed subcellular membrane fractionation by centrifugation of clarified plant extracts on Suc step gradients (CITATION). This method allowed separation of the PM from fractions containing lighter membranes (Golgi, tonoplast). Western-blot analysis with an anti-RabE polyclonal antibody that reacts with all RabE family members revealed that the bulk of membrane-associated endogenous RabE proteins, as well as transgenically expressed GFP-RabE1d, were in the same fraction as the PM marker H+-ATPase (CITATION). A lower amount of endogenous RabE, as well as GFP-RabE1d, cofractionated with xylosyl transferase (XT1), a Golgi apparatus resident protein (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 3, F and G). A tonoplast marker, γ-tonoplast integral protein (γ-TIP), was found predominantly in the same fraction as the Golgi marker. Independent membrane fractionation experiments yielded similar results, although minor differences in protein levels and distribution among fractions were occasionally observed across western blots as a result of interexperiment variability. Overall, the membrane fractionation experiments complemented the live cell imaging results; together, they indicate that endogenous and ectopically expressed RabE proteins are not only localized at the Golgi apparatus but that the majority of membrane-associated RabE is in the PM in Arabidopsis leaf cells. We also produced transgenic plants expressing RabE1d-Q74L, which is predicted to be constitutively active, as a GFP fusion. Unlike wild-type GFP-RabE1d, the GFP-RabE1d-Q74L fusion was not detected in intracellular punctate structures (i.e. Golgi) but was primarily found at the cell periphery (Fig. 4A ). PM staining with FM4-64 revealed that the bulk of GFP-RabE1d-Q74L fluorescence did not overlap with the PM but was most likely localized in the tonoplast (Fig. 4B). We obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center Arabidopsis transgenic lines expressing various endomembrane markers fused to GFP (CITATION). Comparison of GFP-RabE1d-Q74L fluorescence with that of either a PM-localized channel protein (line Q8) or a tonoplast marker (line Q5) revealed a localization pattern similar to that of the tonoplast, both in intact and in plasmolyzed leaf tissues (Supplemental Fig. S3). Plasmolysis in line Q8 resulted in the characteristic Hechtian strands (CITATION), typical of plasma membrane retracting from the cell wall; in mesophyll cells, the chloroplasts were clearly located on the inside of the GFP-labeled PM (Fig. 5 ). In contrast, plasmolyzed cells expressing GFP-RabE1d-Q74L did not display Hechtian strands, and chloroplasts in the mesophyll cells were distinctly on the outside of the GFP-labeled membrane (Fig. 5), further supporting RabE1d-Q74L localization in the tonoplast. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether intracellular distribution of the RabE1d protein was perturbed in the presence of bacteria, we performed microscopic observation of transgenic GFP-RabE1d plants challenged with various strains of Pst DC3000. Leaves were syringe inoculated with bacteria at 1 × 108 colony-forming units (cfu) mL−1 and analyzed by CLSM at 5 to 6 h after inoculation. We observed that bacterial inoculation caused polarized GFP-RabE1d accumulation in mesophyll cells (Fig. 6A ). Interestingly, whereas such a phenomenon was restricted to a few sparse cells in leaves challenged with wild-type virulent Pst DC3000 (Fig. 6D) or with the nonpathogenic TTSS-defective mutant hrpA− (Fig. 6C), focal accumulation of GFP-RabE1d was widespread in leaves inoculated with the avirulent strain Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2; Fig. 6E). These results suggest that the GFP-RabE1d subcellular localization is dynamic and can respond to bacterial infection, especially in a gene-for-gene interaction. [[FIGURE]] A large percentage of GFP-RabE1d transgenic Arabidopsis plants generated in this study showed cosuppression of the transgene and of endogenous RabE, as demonstrated by western-blot analysis (Fig. 7A ). Severe reduction of the endogenous RabE protein level in transgenic plants invariably correlated with a distinct morphological phenotype (Fig. 7, B and C). Rosette leaves developed normally for the first 3 weeks, when Arabidopsis development is usually slower, and plants were indistinguishable from Col-0 plants. In the following 2 weeks, when Arabidopsis size increases more rapidly, the leaves of RabE-cosuppressed plants did not fully elongate (Fig. 7D); midribs remained short, while the leaf lamina continued to expand, producing a characteristic wavy phenotype. Mature (6- to 7-week-old) RabE-cosuppressed plants were significantly smaller than wild-type plants and had short midribs and petioles. RabE-cosuppressed plants flowered at the same time as wild-type Arabidopsis, although their stems were much shorter than wild-type stems and the plants produced fertile seeds. The progeny of selected silenced lines (B8, B11, and B13) maintained silencing and had the same phenotype as the parental plants. [[FIGURE]] Expression of the RabE gene family was analyzed by RT-PCR in the cosuppressed lines and compared with expression in wild-type plants. RT-PCR demonstrated that not all RabE gene family members are equally affected by cosuppression. RabE1d and RabE1e were knocked down most severely, followed by RabE1b and RabE1c. RabE1a showed only slight down-regulation (Fig. 7E). Given the high degree of sequence similarity among small GTPases of the Arabidopsis Rab superfamily, we tested whether other closely related Rabs were affected by silencing. The closest relatives of the RabE clade in Arabidopsis are the four RabD proteins (RabD1, -D2a, -D2b, and -D2c). RabD was previously characterized as a regulator of the early secretory pathway, being involved in transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi (CITATION; CITATION). RT-PCR revealed that transcripts of all four RabD genes were present at similar levels in RabE1d-silenced plants and in wild-type Arabidopsis (Fig. 7E). Silencing in the transgenic plants, therefore, is specific and limited to the RabE genes, primarily RabE1d and -E1e. We performed pathogenesis assays with Pst DC3000 to establish whether the partially RabE-cosuppressed plants are impaired in their defenses against P. syringae. Pst DC3000 consistently caused disease symptoms and multiplied on RabE-cosuppressed plants, reaching similar population levels as on wild-type Arabidopsis (Supplemental Fig. S2). In several instances, however, we observed that older (6- to 7-week-old) or environmentally stressed RabE-cosuppressed plants displayed some degree of basal resistance, possibly due to stress caused by RabE down-regulation (Supplemental Fig. S2). We did not observe a consistent and reproducible difference between wild-type Col-0 plants and RabE-cosuppressed plants in the multiplication of Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2) or a TTSS-defective mutant of Pst DC3000, the hrpA− mutant (Supplemental Fig. S2). GFP-RabE-Q74L plants did not exhibit significant alterations in growth and development, other than the appearance of minute sparse indentations in mature rosette leaves about 2 weeks prior to bolting. The origin and significance of these indentations are unclear; however, we have been unable to show, using trypan blue staining, that they develop as a consequence of cell death. Although transgenic expression of constitutively active GFP-RabE1d-Q74L did not globally affect plant growth or development (as did RabE cosuppression), it had a remarkable effect on plant responses to P. syringae infection. Upon challenge with Pst DC3000, the GFP-RabE1d-Q74L-expressing plants displayed a considerable degree of resistance, reflected by bacterial multiplication being consistently restricted (10- to 100-fold) compared with multiplication on wild-type Arabidopsis (Fig. 8A ). This observation was consistent across several experiments on different transgenic lines. Visible disease symptoms, namely chlorosis and necrosis, were also markedly reduced (Fig. 8B). This enhanced resistance phenotype apparently requires the constitutively active form of RabE1d, as transgenic expression of GFP-RabE1d did not result in enhanced resistance (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] Up-regulation of the secretory pathway was recently demonstrated in systemic acquired resistance (SAR; CITATION), and plants undergoing SAR accumulate secreted proteins in the apoplast, including antimicrobial polypeptides (CITATION). Because RabE proteins are predicted to be involved in regulating secretory vesicle trafficking, the enhanced resistance to Pst DC3000 in GFP-RabE1d-Q74L-expressing plants could be caused by constitutive stimulation of defense-associated secretion. To test this possibility, Arabidopsis wild-type and GFP-RabE1d-Q74L-expressing plants were sprayed with benzothiadiazole (BTH), a synthetic activator known to trigger SAR in plants (CITATION), or with water as a control. Three days later, total protein secretion in the apoplast and secretion of the extracellular defense protein PR1 (for pathogenesis-related protein 1) were monitored. Intercellular wash fluid (IWF) collected from water-treated GFP-RabE1d-Q74L-expressing plants contained PR1 and several unknown proteins that were absent from the water-treated Arabidopsis wild-type IWF, indicating a constitutive activation of secretory and defense pathways. BTH application resulted in similar levels of secreted PR1 and several other proteins in the apoplast of both wild-type and transgenic plants (Fig. 8C). Interestingly, some protein bands were exclusively detected in the IWF of water- and BTH-treated RabE1d-Q74L-expressing plants but not in the BTH-treated wild-type plant IWF (Fig. 8C, arrowheads). These unique extracellular proteins associated with expression of RabE1d-Q74L suggest that other secretory pathways, in addition to the SAR pathway, are activated in these plants.
!~MM~! We identified Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) proteins that interacted with AvrPto of Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato strain DC3000 using the Matchmaker LexA-based Y2H system (Clontech Laboratories). Two Arabidopsis cDNA libraries, constructed from infected and uninfected Landsberg erecta plants (kindly provided by J. Jones), were screened. The AvrPto coding sequence was amplified from Pst DC3000 genomic DNA by PCR (sense primer, 5′-GCGAATTCCGAACCATGGGAAATATATGTGTC-3′; antisense primer, 5′-GCCTCGAGATTGCCAGTTACGGTA-3′) and cloned into pNLexA to serve as bait in the Y2H screen. We amplified the RabE1d (At5g03520) coding sequence from Arabidopsis Col-0 cDNA using the rabE-5′ and rabE-3′ primers (Supplemental Table S1), containing the EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites, respectively. The PCR product was ligated into a TOPO vector (pCR2.1; Invitrogen) and sequenced. Single nucleotide changes were introduced in the RabE1d sequence by two-step overlapping PCR, to generate the RabE1d-S29N and RabE1d-Q74L mutant derivatives. RabE1d-S29N was obtained through a G→A substitution; in the first PCR step, two overlapping RabE1d fragments were amplified using the primer combinations rabE-5′/S29N-rev and rabE-3′/S29N-for (Supplemental Table S1). The products were purified from agarose gel, mixed, and used as template for a second PCR amplification step, with the rabE-5′ and rabE-3′ primers. The presence of an overlapping region allowed annealing of the two gene fragments and amplification of the full-length coding sequence. A similar procedure was used to introduce the Q74L mutation through an A→T substitution. In this case, the following primer combinations were used in the first PCR step: rabE-5′/Q74L-rev and rabE-3′/Q74L-for (Supplemental Table S1). RabE1d-S29N and RabE1d-Q74L amplification products were introduced into pCR2.1-TOPO and sequenced. RabE1d and the mutant variant RabE1d-Q74L were subcloned in the EcoRI and BamHI sites of the binary expression vector pEGAD (CITATION), downstream of the enhanced GFP sequence, to create translational fusions. The binary vector was introduced in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3850 via triparental mating for plant transformation. Arabidopsis Col-0 glabrous (Col-0 gl1) plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected based on resistance to the herbicide Basta (glufosinate). A solution containing 0.012% glufosinate (Finale concentrate; AgrEvo Environmental Health) and 0.025% Silwet L-77 was sprayed on 2-week-old seedlings growing in soil. Surviving T1 plants were screened for GFP fluorescence with a Zeiss Axiophot microscope, and expression of the correctly sized GFP-RabE fusion proteins was verified by western blotting with an anti-RabE polyclonal antibody (described below). Total proteins were extracted as follows: approximately 20 mg (fresh weight) of fresh or frozen leaf tissue was ground with a pestle in a microfuge tube in the presence of 100 μL of 1× SDS-PAGE loading buffer (90 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mm dithiothreitol, 3% SDS, 22.5% Suc, 10 μL mL−1 Protease Inhibitor Cocktail for plant cell extracts [Sigma], and bromphenol blue [to saturation]). Extracts were immediately heated at 80°C for 10 min and then frozen at −20°C. Before loading, extracts were thawed at room temperature and centrifuged at 20,000g for 2 min to pellet debris. An equal volume of each sample was used for SDS-PAGE. Total proteins were separated on precast gradient gels (4%–20%; ISC BioExpress), then transferred onto Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore) using a semidry transfer apparatus (SEMI PHOR; Hoefer Scientific Instruments). Protein detection was carried out with the following primary antibodies: anti-RabE (raised in chicken against recombinant RabE protein expressed in Escherichia coli; Cocalico Biological), anti-XT1 (CITATION; CITATION), anti-PM ATPase (CITATION), and anti-γ-TIP (a gift of Dr. N. Raikhel). Leaves were harvested and weighed immediately prior to extraction. Leaf tissue (2.5 g) was ground with a cold mortar and pestle in the presence of 5 mL of ice-cold extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm KCl, 10 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and 10 μL mL−1 Protease Inhibitor Cocktail for plant cell extracts [Sigma]) containing 34% Suc (w/v). The extract was homogenized with a Polytron immersion blender (three pulses of 10 s each), filtered through a single layer of Miracloth, and centrifuged for 10 min at 10,000g to remove most unbroken chloroplasts and nuclei. The supernatant was adjusted to 40% Suc in about a 10-mL final volume (concentration was determined with a refractometer) and layered on a 5-mL cushion of 50% Suc in clear ultracentrifugation tubes. The homogenate was subsequently layered with 10 mL of 34% Suc, 8 mL of 25% Suc, and 8 mL of 18% Suc (w/v). All Suc solutions were prepared in the same buffer used for extraction. Gradients were centrifuged at 100,000g for 3 h, at 4°C, in an SW28 rotor (Beckman). After centrifugation, the membrane-containing interphases were collected and diluted with Suc-free extraction buffer, and membranes were collected by ultracentrifugation (1 h at 100,000g). Membrane pellets were resuspended in equal volumes of SDS-PAGE loading buffer and heated at 80°C for 10 min. Equal volumes were loaded on SDS-PAGE gels. Protein electrophoresis and western blotting were performed as described above. Pieces of leaves were sampled randomly and mounted in water. Imaging was performed using an LSM510 META inverted confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss) and either a 20× or a 40× oil-immersion objective. For GFP-RabE fluorescence analysis, the 488-nm excitation line of an argon ion laser was used, with a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter, in the single-track facility of the microscope. Images were processed with the LSM Image Browser version 3.1 (Zeiss) and with the Adobe Photoshop Elements version 5.0 software (Adobe Systems). For FM4-64 staining, detached Arabidopsis leaves were submerged in 8.2 μm FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) in water for 15 min. Leaves were rinsed in distilled water and observed immediately. For imaging GFP-RabE1d and FM4-64 fluorescence, the 488-nm excitation line was used; GFP fluorescence was collected with a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter, and FM4-64 fluorescence was collected with a 615-nm long-pass filter. ST-RFP transient expression in Arabidopsis leaves was achieved by biolistic transformation. The binary vector was a gift of Dr. F. Brandizzi (CITATION). Gold particles (1.0 μm; Bio-Rad) were coated with the ST-RFP plasmid DNA as described by CITATION. Arabidopsis leaves were harvested and arranged on Murashige and Skoog agar plates (4.3 g L−1 Murashige and Skoog salts, 0.8% agar, pH 5.7). The DNA-coated particles were delivered into the lower leaf epidermis with a particle gun (DuPont), using 1,100-psi rupture discs under a vacuum of 25 in mercury. After bombardment, leaves were incubated on the sealed plates at room temperature, and fluorescence was observed at 24 h after transformation. For coimaging GFP-RabE1d and ST-RFP, the argon ion laser excitation lines of 488 nm (for GFP) and 543 nm (for DsRed) were used. GFP fluorescence was collected with a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter, and DsRed fluorescence was collected with a 615-nm long-pass filter. Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil, in growth chambers, under a 12-h-dark/12-h-light cycle. The light intensity averaged 100 μE m−2 s−1, and the temperature was kept constant at 20°C. Pst DC3000 bacteria were cultured in low-salt Luria-Bertani medium (10 g L−1 tryptone, 5 g L−1 yeast extract, and 5 g L−1 NaCl) supplemented with 100 μg mL−1 rifampicin. For multiplication assays in plants, bacterial liquid cultures were incubated at 30°C to the mid to late logarithmic phase. Bacteria were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in sterile water with the addition of 0.004% Silwet L-77 (OSI Specialties). Titer of the bacterial inoculum was 1 × 105 cfu mL−1, unless otherwise indicated. Arabidopsis leaves were inoculated by syringe infiltration, and bacteria enumeration in leaves was conducted as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from 100 mg of Arabidopsis leaf tissue with the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer's specifications. RNA concentration in samples was determined with a NanoDrop ND-1000 Spectrophotometer (NanoDrop). RNA RT and target gene amplification (RT-PCR) were performed using the RNA LA PCR Kit (AMV), version 1.1 (TaKaRa). RT reaction mixture was prepared according to the manufacturer's protocol (5 mm MgCl2, 1× RNA PCR buffer, 1 mm deoxynucleoside triphosphate mixture, 1 unit μL−1 RNase inhibitor, 0.25 units μL−1 AMV reverse transcriptase, 0.125 μm oligo[dT] Adaptor Primer, RNase-free water, and 1 μg of total RNA). For amplification of the RabE and RabD transcripts, a single RT reaction was carried out in a total volume of 50 μL and incubated in a thermal cycler for 30 min at 45°C, followed by 5 min at 99°C and 5 min at 5°C. Five microliters of reverse-transcribed cDNA was used as template in each of 10 PCRs with gene-specific primer pairs designed to amplify the five RabE gene family members, the four RabD genes, and the Actin8 gene as a control. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S2. Each PCR sample contained 2.5 mm MgCl2, 1× LA PCR buffer II, 0.2 μm forward primer and 0.2 μm reverse primer, sterilized distilled water, and 5 μL of the RT reaction described above in a final volume of 25 μL. The reactions were placed in a thermal cycler, and amplification was performed under the following conditions: 94°C for 2 min (one cycle); 94°C for 30 s, 54°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min (22 or 25 cycles); 72°C for 1 min (one cycle); and then 4°C. Ten microliters of the PCR samples was loaded on a 1% agarose gel. Gels were photographed with a Bio-Rad Gel Documentation System, and band intensity was analyzed with the Quantity One software (Bio-Rad). BTH (Actigard) was prepared at a final concentration of 300 μm in water and sprayed onto potted GFP-RabE1d-Q74L and Col-0 gl1 Arabidopsis plants. A separate set of plants was sprayed with water as a control. Plants were covered with a tight-fitting clear plastic dome and assayed for responses at 3 d after BTH application. BTH-treated and control plants were harvested 3 d after treatment. Whole plants were vacuum infiltrated for 2 min with distilled water containing 0.002% Silwet L-77 (OSI Specialties). The plants were placed in conical centrifuge tubes (Nalgene) containing a mesh septum placed about 2 cm above the bottom. IWF was collected by centrifuging the infiltrated plants at 400g for 20 min at 4°C. The IWF volume was measured with a micropipette, and the appropriate volume of 5× SDS-PAGE loading buffer was immediately added. Samples were heated at 85°C for 5 min, then frozen or loaded onto an acrylamide gel. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. ClustalW alignment of the five Arabidopsis RabE proteins and their closest homologues in other organisms. Supplemental Figure S2. Bacterial multiplication assays. Supplemental Figure S3. Localization pattern of GFP-RabE1d-Q74L. Supplemental Figure S4. Focal accumulation of GFP-RabE1d in response to bacteria. Supplemental Table S1. Primers for RabE cloning and mutagenesis. Supplemental Table S2. Gene-specific primers for RT-PCR.
