!~ABS~! It has not yet been reported how the secondary CESA (cellulose synthase) proteins are organized in the rosette structure. A membrane-based yeast two-hybrid (MbYTH) approach was used to analyze the interactions between the CESA proteins involved in secondary cell wall synthesis of Arabidopsis and the findings were confirmed in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay. Results indicated that although all CESA proteins can interact with each other, only CESA4 is able to form homodimers. A model is proposed for the secondary rosette structure. The RING-motif proved not to be essential for the interaction between the CESA proteins.
!~RES~! The regular structure of the rosette suggests that the assembly of this complex is highly regulated. In order to understand these complexes, the first step is the identification of specific interaction between the building-blocks of the complex, the different CESAs. The membrane-based yeast two-hybrid (MbYTH) method was used to identify the interactions between membrane-bound CESAs as it avoids the need to co-purify membrane proteins present in the same complex. In this system the protein of interest (bait) is fused to Cub-transcription factor (TF) and expressed in yeast together with another protein (prey) fused to NubG CITATION. Upon interaction between the bait and prey, the Cub-TF and NubG reconstitute and the TF is released by a protease so it can activate reporter gene expression. As the interaction is detected by a protease, the location of interaction is therefore not restricted to the nucleus but might also occur at the plasma membrane CITATION. The selection with two different auxotrophic markers increased the reliability of the system dramatically in that the prey had to circumvent two different pathways to auto-activate the system, as well as a colorimetric marker. The screening was optimized for each bait by addition of appropriate amounts of inhibitor (3-AT) to the selected medium so that growth of the yeast expressing a bait protein and the positive or negative control were significantly different, to rule out auto activation and to make it possible to screen for interactions between different proteins. All possible combinations of fusion proteins were grown on selective medium to determine their interactions. CITATION A shows the results of the interactions when CESA4 was used as bait, indicating strong interaction with itself and CESA8, and a weaker yet still significant interaction with CESA7. When CESA7 was used as the bait, strong interactions were detected with CESA4 and CESA8, however, CESA7 did not homodimerize (CITATIONB). Similar results were obtained with CESA8 as a bait; CESA8 interacted with the other CESAs, but was unable to homodimerize (CITATIONC). The interactions were also tested in planta using BiFC assays. In this system a YFP fragment, either YFP/N or YPF/C, was linked to the N-terminal part of the secondary CESA proteins and transiently expressed in N. benthamiana. To determine whether heterodimers could be formed, two different CESA proteins were co-expressed YFP/N-CESA4/YFP/C-CESA7, YFP/N-CESA7/YFP/C-CESA4 (CITATION F), YFP/N-CESA4/YFP/C-CESA8 (CITATIONG), YFP/N-CESA8/YFP/C-CESA4, YFP/N-CESA7/YFP/C-CESA8 (CITATIONH), or YFP/N-CESA8/YFP/C-CESA7 (all interactions are shown in CITATION). To prevent false positives all fusion proteins were tested for interaction with the negative control, the aquaporin PIP2-1 protein, and all combinations showed no interaction. Although not all combinations were able to restore the YFP fluorescence, results indicated that all isoforms can interact with each other. Some combinations gave a weak signal, indicating that this dimerization is less efficient, particularly the combination of CESA7 and CESA8 even lacked fluorescence above the threshold in some of the repeat experiments. Also homodimerization of the CESA proteins was tested. A strong signal was found for the combination YFP/N-CESA4/YFP/C-CESA4 (CITATIONB) whereas YFP/N-CESA7/YFP/C-CESA7 (CITATIONC) was unable to restore YFP fluorescence, and YFP/N-CESA8/YFP/C-CESA8 (CITATIOND) only gave a very weak fluorescence signal. Whenever CESA8 was expressed the signal was weaker and punctuate structures appear. The N-terminal region of each CESA protein contains a double zinc-finger motif (CX2CX12FXACX2CX2PXCX2CXEX5GX3CX2C) highly homologous to the RING-finger domain. RING-fingers have been implicated in mediating protein-protein interactions, in a redox regulated bridging between cysteine residues CITATION. Protein–protein interaction studies with only these zinc-finger domains, showed that they were able to interact with themselves and with the zinc-fingers of other family members CITATION. In order to get more insight in the mechanism of interaction between the CESA proteins, the RING-finger motif of CESA7 was mutagenized and cysteines (C) at different positions were substituted by alanines (A) using site-directed mutagenesis. Also combinations of the substitutions were made (CITATION ). The interactions between the different mutated CESA7 proteins and the other secondary CESAs were tested with the MbYTH. The interaction between CESA8 and CESA7 decreased only slightly when one cysteine was mutated (C37A, C56A, C64A, or C79A). Double substitution affected the interaction more in only one combination (C37A+C79A), however the interaction was not abolished (CITATION ). The interaction between CESA4 and CESA7 also decreased upon introduction of mutations CITATION.
!~MM~! Yeast strain NMY51 (Dualsystems Biotech AG) was transformed according to the protocol (DUALmembrane Kit 1). Interactions were quantified by 100 colonies spotted on SD medium (lacking Leucine, Tryptophan, Histidine and Adenine) containing the appropriate concentration of 3-ammonium-triazole (130mM, 10mM, and 75mM, for baits CESA4, CESA7, and CESA8, respectively) and grown at 30°C for five days, the number of spots grown was scored. Detection β-galactosidase activity was performed with the filter-lift assay CITATION. Experiments have been done twice to confirm results. The full-length cDNAs were obtained from the Riken Bioresource Center CITATION ATCESA4 (RAFL15-30-K05), ATCESA7 (RAFL09-35-F05), and ATCESA8 (RAFL09-65-M12). Restriction sites were generated by PCR with primers as indicated in CITATION. The resulting PCR-products were digested and ligated in the pTFB1 vector (Bait) and the pADSL-Nx vector (Prey) (Dualsystems Biotech AG). Bait and prey expression is regulated by the TEF1 and ADH1 promoter, respectively. The sequences of the inserts were confirmed by Sanger sequence analysis. Experiments have been done four times to confirm results. The QuikChange Multi site-Directed MutagenesisKit from Stratagene (200514) was used to introduce point mutations into the RING-motif of CESA7 using primers CESA7C37, CESA7C56, CESA7C64, and CesA7C79 (CITATION) to introduce mutations C37A, C56A, C64A, C79A, respectively. Genes were cloned in the pBIFP-2 and pBIFP-3 plasmids and regulated by the constitutive 35S promoter CITATION. The sequence of the primers used are in Table SI. Leaves of 3-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants were transformed by infiltration CITATION. YFP (yellow fluorescent protein) fluorescence was detected 3days after infiltration by using the 514-nm laser line of a SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica, Solms, Germany) equipped with an argon laser. To check the YFP reconstitution, spectral analysis was performed with the 496-nm laser line.
