!~ABS~! The family 20 carbohydrate-binding module (CBM20) of the Arabidopsis starch phosphorylator glucan, water dikinase 3 (GWD3) was heterologously produced and its properties were compared to the CBM20 from a fungal glucoamylase (GA). The GWD3 CBM20 has 50-fold lower affinity for cyclodextrins than that from GA. Homology modelling identified possible structural elements responsible for this weak binding of the intracellular CBM20. Differential binding of fluorescein-labelled GWD3 and GA modules to starch granules in vitro was demonstrated by confocal laser scanning microscopy and yellow fluorescent protein-tagged GWD3 CBM20 expressed in tobacco confirmed binding to starch granules in planta .
!~RES~! The sequence of A. thaliana CBM20 has 26% identity/58% similarity to A. niger GA-SBD compared to 50% identity/69% similarity with a putative GWD3-SBD from Oryza sativa . Tryptophans at GWD3-SBD putative binding site 1 (W102 and W142) are conserved as are W115 (putative binding site 2) and W164 (structural in GA-SBD) ( CITATION ). The GWD3-SBD model exhibited a similar fold as GA-SBD with seven β-strands distributed in two β-sheets, and ligand-binding site 1 was readily identified ( CITATION A). Only F86 and W115 are conserved in GWD3-SBD from site 2, containing Y527, Y556 and W563 in GA-SBD. Noticeably, GWD3-SBD has a 7 residue deletion in the third, flexible GA-SBD loop including Y556 that is strongly involved in binding at site 2 ( CITATION ). The GWD3-SBD model ( CITATION B) illustrated this structural difference presumably affecting the binding. A GWD3-SBD construct containing residues 68–184 was the most stable one among those tested (not shown). The purified module had an apparent molecular weight in SDS–PAGE consistent with the calculated 14.2 kDa ( CITATION ). Nonetheless, the stability of GWD3-SBD was lower ( T m = 44.6 °C, Supplementary data) than that of GA-SBD ( T m = 56.7 °C) CITATION . Stability was lower after re-purification for efficient removal of β-CD indicative of ligand-stabilisation. It is also possible that interactions with the catalytic GWD3 domain provide stability to SBD when present in the native enzyme. Differential affinity of GWD3-SBD and GA-SBD towards α-, β-, and γ-CD was demonstrated using SPR ( CITATION ). GWD3-SBD showed strongest binding towards α-CD, and no detectable affinity for linear maltooligosaccharides (DP 3–7) or for phosphorylated β-CD. The β-CD affinity minimum was at neutral pH. GWD3-SBD forms expressed in Pichia pastoris and as a glutathione S -transferase (GST) fusion in Escherischia coli (not shown) gave similar K d values for β-CD at pH 7.0, excluding artefacts due to expression host or affinity tag. The optimum affinity for β-CD of A. niger GA is at pH 4.5 CITATION and comparison at the GWD3-SBD optimum pH 5.5 showed affinity 50-fold higher for GA- than for GWD3-SBD ( CITATION ) – consistent with GA UV difference spectroscopy ( K d = 14.4 μM CITATION ) and NMR titration ( K d = 9 μM CITATION ). Affinity differences between the two GA-SBD sites assessed for the mutants, W563K (site 2) and W590K (site 1) CITATION are reflected in K d of 28 μM and 6.4 μM, respectively. This agrees with K d1 of 2.0 and K d2 of 31.3 μM obtained by fitting a two binding site model to our GA-SBD SPR data (not shown). The 50-fold higher K d for β-CD ( CITATION ) clearly identifies GWD3-SBD as a low-affinity SBD compared to GA-SBD. The physiological relevance and generality is substantiated by the plant CBM45 in GWD1 CITATION and CBM53 in starch synthase III CITATION both having low affinity. As for GWD3 these enzymes are predominantly found in soluble form when extracted. Furthermore, GWD1 binding to starch in planta is stronger in the dark CITATION as a possible effect of the redox potential in stroma CITATION . However, GWD3 does not possess the suggested CFATC redox motif found in GWD1 and might not be redox regulated. The slightly lower affinity found at pH 6.5 as compared to pH 9 may suggest slightly stronger binding during the day when stromal pH increases indicating differential dynamics of binding for the GWD3-SBD in response to physiological needs. CLSM visualised binding of fluorescein-labelled GWD3-SBD to starch granules, including normal and waxy (high amylopectin content) barley and maize endosperm starch (type A) and normal potato tuber starch (type B). Clear fluorescence was detected at the granule surface ( CITATION ) and in channels – characteristic of maize starches CITATION . The sites of label in the starch granules indicate identical binding sites for the two SBDs. However, some subtle differences in binding distribution to specific starches were observed. While both SBDs interacted internally with the waxy granules, they showed more discrete surface binding to normal cereal granules. The potato starch showed least penetration. For the maize granules the label for the GA-SBD had higher contrast than the GWD3-SBD indicating a tendency for more distinct surface localisation for GA-SBD than for GWD3-SBD suggesting that GWD3-SBD more efficiently penetrates these granules. Fluorescein labelled bovine serum albumin gave no starch granule fluorescence and free dye penetrated the granules and resulted in unspecific binding (Supplementary data). In vivo , a GWD3-SBD-YFP fusion demonstrated affinity for starch granules by transient expression in tobacco leaves ( CITATION ). YFP fluorescence was localised in the chloroplasts (red chlorophyll autofluorescence) and was essentially confined to the starch granules.
!~MM~! A. niger GA-SBD (PDB 1KUL) was used as template (26% identity, 58% similarity for residues 509–616) to generate a GWD3-SBD homology model using Modeller v6.1 CITATION . GWD3-SBD residues 170–184 lacking in the template were deleted from the model. Sequences were aligned using ClustalW. GWD3-SBD (Asp 68 –Gly 184 ) was cloned from full-length GWD3 cDNA CITATION into NcoI and XhoI sites of pET-28a(+) (Novagen, Madison, WI), using sense: AACATG CCATGG CAGATGGATCAGGAACGAAAGTG (NcoI site underlined) and antisense primer: AACCG CTCGAGA CCAACATCATCATCATTACCAAC (XhoI site underlined) and standard molecular biology procedures. Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) harbouring the GWD3-SBD construct was grown at 37 °C (LB medium; 50 μg/mL kanamycin) to OD 600 ∼0.5. Expression was induced by adding isopropyl β- d -thiogalactopyranoside to 250 μM, followed by incubation at 20 °C for 20 h. After cell harvest, sonication and centrifugation, the extract was passed over a 1 mL His-trap column (QIAGEN, Hamburg, Germany). The GWD3-SBD was eluted as recommended by the manufacturer, applied to a 6 mL β-cyclodextrin Sepharose column and eluted with 10 mM β-CD. β-CD traces were removed by an additional His-trap purification and desalting using 0.5 mL Zeba Desalt Spin Columns (Pierce, Rockford, IL). Final yield was ∼0.7 mg/L culture. A. niger recombinant GA-SBD was produced as described CITATION . Surface plasmon resonance (Biacore T100; GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden) sensorgrams were recorded of binding 0.01–10 mM (15 concentrations) α-, β-, γ-CD, linear maltooligosaccharides (DP 3–7) and β-CD with 2–6 phosphate groups (Sigma, Steinheim, Germany) to biotinylated protein (900–1000 RU on streptavidin-chip). K d values were calculated by steady-state affinity fitting (BIAevaluation 1.1 software) to the response after subtracting the reference cell signal. Fluorescein 5-EX succinimidyl ester (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK) in 4-fold molar excess was reacted with 100 μL GWD3-SBD (1 mg/mL, 50 mM HEPES-carbonate, pH 8.0, 10 mM β-CD) (final 140 μL) for 1 h at 20 °C. Fluorescein-conjugated protein was His-trap purified, desalted twice and 10 μM protein was incubated with starch granules (10 mg/mL) for 45 min at 4 °C with gentle rotation. Visualisation by CLSM (TCS SP2, Leica Microsystems, Germany) CITATION used fluorescein excitation at 488 nm and recorded emission at 500–550 nm with 25% laser power and the gain varied to prevent saturation of the detector and to ensure comparable intensities. The objective used was HCX PL APO 63.0×1.20 W CORR UV. Image analysis was performed by the TCS SP2 software. The region encoding residues 1–201 of GWD3, containing the chloroplast transit peptide and SBD, was amplified using uracil-containing primers (sense: GGCTTAAUATGGAGAGCATTGGCAGCCATTG, antisense: GGTTTAAUCCCACTACTCTATCATCACCAACATCA) and fused to YFP CITATION . The fusion protein was transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana and analysed in situ by CLSM CITATION .
