!~ABS~! In fungi and metazoans, the SCF-type Ubiquitin protein ligases (E3s) play a critical role in cell cycle regulation by degrading negative regulators, such as cell cycle-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs) at the G1-to-S-phase checkpoint. Here we report that FBL17, an Arabidopsis thaliana F-box protein, is involved in cell cycle regulation during male gametogenesis. FBL17 expression is strongly enhanced in plants co-expressing E2Fa and DPa, transcription factors that promote S-phase entry. FBL17 loss-of-function mutants fail to undergo pollen mitosis II, which generates the two sperm cells in mature A. thaliana pollen. Nonetheless, the single sperm cell-like cell in fbl17 mutants is functional but will exclusively fertilize the egg cell of the female gametophyte, giving rise to an embryo that will later abort, most likely due to the lack of functional endosperm. Seed abortion can, however, be overcome by mutations in FIE, a component of the Polycomb group complex, overall resembling loss-of-function mutations in the A. thaliana cyclin-dependent kinase CDKA;1. Finally we identified ASK11, as an SKP1-like partner protein of FBL17 and discuss a possible mechanism how SCFFBL17 may regulate cell division during male gametogenesis.
!~RES~! To better characterize the role of the SCF in plant cell cycle function, we searched for F-box protein encoding genes that are expressed in a cell cycle dependent manner. Among the ∼700 A. thaliana F-box proteins CITATION, one of them, called FBL17 (At3g54650) was of particular interest because its expression was found to be 2.5 fold increased in S-phase based on available microarray data CITATION. Moreover, this gene was in silico identified as a putative target of E2F transcription factors CITATION. A. thaliana plants co-expressing ectopically E2Fa with its dimerization partner, DPa, display strongly induced cell proliferation rates CITATION and indeed in these plants, we found a 15-fold increase in FBL17 transcript accumulation (CITATION). (A) FBL17 transcript accumulation in plants over-expressing the E2Fa transcription factor and its dimerization partner, DPa. Quantitative RT-PCR on RNA extracted from E2Fa-DPa overexpressing (OE) seedlings show a 15-fold increase in the relative abundance of FBL17 transcript compared to control RNA (Col-0). The experiment was three times repeated. Data are means±SE. (B) Diagram of the genomic locus of FBL17. The two T-DNA insertions disrupt the 7th exon and the 6th intron in the fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 allele respectively. Light grey filling indicate non-translated region of the transcript whereas dark grey filling indicates coding sequence. (C) Wild type silique opened to reveal the seed content. (D) Heterozygous fbl17-1+/− silique displaying a reduced fertility and aborted seeds (marked by white arrows). (E) Homozygous fbl17-1 mutant complemented with the FBL17 genomic clone show wild type siliques and normal seed development. (C, D, E, bar = 500 µm). FBL17 is an LRR-type F-box protein, which has no close paralog in Arabidopsis. To gain insights into the function of FBL17, we isolated two A. thaliana T-DNA insertion mutants, named fbl17-1 and fbl17-2, in which the T-DNA insertions interrupt the 7th exon and 6th intron, respectively (CITATION). Ninety-six fbl17-1 and 102 fbl17-2 seedlings were genotyped and none of them was found homozygous for the mutation, suggesting that FBL17 is an essential gene in Arabidopsis. However, heterozygous fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 plants appeared normal in morphology during sporophytic development. As both lines contained single T-DNA insertions with integral sulphadiazine selection markers, we self-pollinated heterozygous mutant plants and analyzed the segregation of this marker in their progeny. This genetic analysis revealed a segregation ratio close to 1∶1 (53% of SulfR plants at most; CITATION), which is consistent with a gametophytic defect. Moreover, open siliques from self-pollinated fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 heterozygous plants showed a large proportion of aborted seeds (∼44%, see CITATION and CITATION). Therefore we analyzed the T-DNA transmission of fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 by reciprocal crosses with wild type plants. A severe reduction in the transmission rate was only observed when heterozygous fbl17 mutants were used as a paternal partner (CITATION). Resistance to sulfadiazine (SulfR, sulfadiazine resistant seedlings; SulfS, sulfadiazine sensitive seedlings) was used for the AtFbl17-1 and AtFbl17-2 plants. n = total number. Transmission efficiencies were calculated according to CITATION: TE = SulfR/SulfS×100%. n = total number. To demonstrate that this phenotype is caused by the fbl17-1 mutation, we engineered a rescue construct (pFBL17∶FBL17) consisting of 868-bp of the promoter sequence fused to FBL17 full length genomic sequence. Transgenic lines expressing this construction fully complemented the fbl17-1 seed abortion phenotype (CITATION, CITATION). A failure to transmit mutant alleles through the pollen can be caused by defects in pollen viability and/or development, germination, pollen tube growth or even fertilization. To test for pollen viability, we used Alexander's staining CITATION. Similarly to mature pollen grains from wild type plants, pollen from heterozygous fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 mutants appeared full, round and red-stained when treated with Alexander's stain (CITATION), showing that the mutation does not affect pollen viability. fbl17 (A) and wild type (B) mature pollen viability test by coloration with Alexander's stain. The purple staining indicates that the grains are viable. Dehiscent pollen of qrt1-1−/− (C) and qrt1-1−/−, fbl17-1+/− (D) stained with DAPI and observed under UV fluorescence. The four pollen grains of the tetrad show two densely stained sperm cell nuclei and one large diffuse vegetative cell nuclei in qrt-1 mutants, whereas two pollen grains of the tetrad show only a single germ cell nuclei in qrt1-1,fbl17-1+/− double mutants. (E, F) transmitted light picture of C and D. (G–L) Expression of the HT10 gene in the fbl17 mutant pollen. Expression of the HTR10-mRFPprotein under the HTR10 promoter in fbl17-1 (H) and wild type (K) pollen, counterstained with DAPI (G, fbl17-1; J, wild type). (I, L) transmitted light pictures of G and J. (A, B) bar = 100 µm; (C–L) bar = 10 µm. (M–U) Promoter-GUS analysis of FBL17 expression in pollen. (M, P, S) DAPI staining is applied to reveal the developmental stage of the pollen grain. (N–U) X-Gluc histochemical staining of pFBL17∶GUS (N, Q, F) and non-transformed Col-0 (O, R, U) pollen grains. Bars = 10 µm (V) DNA content measurement of wild type germinative cell nuclei at prophase (n = 9; DNA = 2C), wild type sperm cell nuclei at telophase (n = 16), WT sperm cell nuclei at anthesis (n = 111) in comparison to the unique germ-cell like nuclei of fbl17 pollen (n = 77). Error bars = standard error mean. Next, we investigated pollen development. In A. thaliana plants, after meiosis, wild type haploid microspores undergo a first mitotic division resulting in a vegetative cell and a generative cell, which divides a second time. Thus, wild type mature pollen contains one large vegetative cell and two sperm cells. Strikingly, about 45% of the heterozygous fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 mature mutant pollen exhibited only one generative-like cell (CITATION), indicating a failure to progress through the second mitotic division. To analyze this in more detail, we performed a tetrad analysis by crossing fbl17-1 to quartet mutation qrt1-1 CITATION, which causes the four products of male meiosis to remain attached (CITATION). Pollen produced by flb17-1+/−; qrt1-1−/− plants never contained more than two aberrant grains and rarely contained fewer, indicating that fbl17-1 is a highly penetrant male-gametophytic mutation. Pollen from dehiscent anthers of WT and fbl17 +/− plants was stained with DAPI and observed under UV illumination. n = total number. Normal pollen all showed two sperm cells. Abnormal pollen showed a single sperm-like cell. To confirm that FBL17 is expressed in mature pollen as suggested by microarray data CITATION, we generated a GUS promoter-reporter with the FBL17 promoter sequence that we have above shown to be functional, and introduced it into wild type plants. Histochemical staining revealed that FBL17 expression is detectable during the microspore to bi-cellular pollen transition and fades later when pollen reaches the tricellular stage (CITATION). To examine whether fbl17-1 mutation affects pollen cell fate, we introduced in the fbl17+/− background the H3.3 histone variant pHTR10-HTR10-mRFP marker, which is specifically expressed in the male germ line and accumulates in the nuclei of wild type generative cell and subsequently in sperm cells CITATION. Expression of this marker was observed in the generative-like cell nuclei of fbl17-1 mutant (n = 95), indicating that this cell has not lost its gametic fate (CITATION). Furthermore, the single generative-like cell nuclei of fbl17 mutant pollen is distinctively larger and less dense than the sperm cell nuclei observed in wild type pollen at anthesis (CITATION) and its morphology is reminiscent of the generative cell nuclei before the second mitotic division. Accordingly, measurement of DNA content by densitometry of DAPI stained pollen nuclei revealed that fbl17 single generative-like cell nuclei have a slightly higher content than the wild type sperm cell nuclei at anthesis (1,38C vs 1,25C respectively; CITATION). Thus, the fbl17 generative-like cell fails to progress into mitosis but has initiated S-phase reminiscent of wild-type sperms before fertilization. This suggested that the single generative-like cell of fbl17 mutant pollen might function as a sperm cell. Overall, our results indicate that fbl17 mutation prevents entry of the generative cell into mitosis, supporting a function of the FBL17 protein in cell cycle regulation in the male germ line. Interestingly, the production of a single sperm cell has recently been described for the loss of function of CDKA;1, the central A. thaliana cyclin-dependent kinase CITATION, CITATION. In these studies, it was found that the single sperm cell of cdka;1 may fertilize preferentially the egg cell in the embryo sac, leading to embryo arrest at the globular stage and fertilization-independent endosperm development. To further investigate the functionality of the single generative-like cell and the origin of semi-sterility of fbl17 plants, we characterized the embryo sac development of plants fertilized with fbl17 pollen. Siliques of selfed fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 plants showed arrested embryos at the globular stage with underdeveloped endosperm (CITATION). These embryos never developed further and eventually degenerated. When fbl17-1 pollen was used to fertilize wild type plants, the same phenotype was observed (CITATION). Hence, fbl17 mutants fully phenocopy the cdka;1 mutation. Embryo development in wild type plants fertilized with fbl17-1 mutant (A, E) and wild type (B) pollen, 3 days after pollination. Embryo development in wild type plants fertilized with fbl17-1 mutant (C, F) and wild type (D) pollen, 4 days after pollination. Early fertilization-independent development of the endosperm is visible in fbl17-1-fertilized seeds (E) as evidenced by the presence of multiple nuclei (asterisks). Arrested globular embryo in fbl17-1 mutant seeds with degenerated endosperm (F). Bars: 50 µm. Malfunction of the FIS-Polycomb group complex leads to central cell proliferation even in the absence of fertilization (reviewed in CITATION–CITATION). A striking observation was that mutations of genes encoding this complex, including mea, fis2 and fie, could rescue the cdka;1 paternally conferred seed abortion phenotype and allowed the formation of viable seeds with only a diploid endosperm CITATION. To test whether flb17 fertilized ovules behave in a similar manner, we crossed female fie+/− mutant with pollen from the heterozygous fbl17-1 and fbl17-2 mutants. The F1 generation was then genotyped to assess the transmission of both the fbl17 and fie mutant alleles (CITATION). In contrast with Col-0 fertilized by fbl17 mutants that only allowed 6–8% of transmission efficiency of the fbl17 mutant allele, the fie mutation raised the transmission efficiency of fbl17 to 27–32%. At the same time, the transmission efficiency of the fie mutant allele through the female gametophyte increased from 8% in crosses with wild-type pollen to 28–32% indicating a mutual rescue of fbl17 and fie similar to what has been previously reported for fis mutants and cdka;1. Taken together, we conclude that the single fb17 generative-like cell is able to some degree to function as a sperm cell leading to the production of viable seed when sufficiently developed endosperm is provided. N, number of F1 germinated seedlings scored; NA, not applicable; association factor, number of F1 plants carrying both a fis-class mutant (fie) and a fbl17 mutant allele divided by the total number of plants carrying a fis-class mutant allele expressed in per cent. Since FBL17 carries an F-box motif, we next examined whether this protein forms an SCF-type complex. Yeast two hybrid assays were conducted with the different A. thaliana SKP1-like proteins, called ASKs CITATION. In yeast, several ASKs were able to interact with FBL17 when fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain while failing to allow yeast growth on selective medium when fused to the activating domain (CITATION). In contrast, ASK11 displayed a robust interaction with FBL17 in both fusions. Interestingly, ASK11 is among the members of the A. thaliana ASK family that are strongly expressed in pollen CITATION, CITATION and constitutes therefore a strong candidate for participating in an SCFFBL17 complex. It is noteworthy that the most predominant ASK, ASK1, was not found to interact with FBL17 in our yeast-two hybrid experiment. To further test a possible interaction between FBL17 and ASK11, we performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments. As a control we fused to the N- and C-terminal half of YFP to the C-terminus of FBL17 and GUS, respectively. After co-injection of these fusion constructs into Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells no YFP fluorescence could be found (data not shown). In contrast, when split-YFP fusions with FBL17 and ASK11 were co-injected, a strong fluorescence signal was recovered corroborating an interaction between these two components of an SCF-type complex in vivo (CITATION). Moreover transient expression of YFP fusions revealed that the FBL17 protein is essentially nuclear, whereas ASK11 localizes both to the cytoplasm and the nucleus (CITATION). Consequently, an interaction between ASK11 and FBL17 in the BiFC assays was restricted to nuclei (CITATION). (A) Yeast-two-hybrid analysis of the interaction between FBL17 and ASKs. Yeast were grown for 3 days at 28°C. LTH- 3AT, low stringency selection, LTA, high stringency selection. Negative controls were done with empty bait vectors (pGBD) or empty prey vectors (pGAD). (B–G) Subcellular interaction of FBL17 with ASK11. Confocal laser-scanning micrographs of the abaxial surface of N. benthamiana leaves. (B, C) Transient expression of ASK11-YFP. The YFP signal is detected both in cytoplasm and nucleus. (D, E) Transient expression of FBL17-YFP. The signal is exclusively nuclear. (F–G) BiFC of FBL17-YN/ASK11-YC. Reconstitution of functional YFP as detected by YFP fluorescence occurs only in the nucleus. (H–K) Subcellular interaction of FBL17 with KRP7. (H, I) Transient expression of KRP7-YFP. A weak YFP signal in the cytoplasm and a strong signal in the nucleus can be detected. (J, K) BiFC of FBL17-YN/KRP7-YC. Reconstitution of functional YFP as detected by YFP fluorescence occurs only in the nucleus. (B, D, F, H, K, J) DIC images of the cells documented. (C, E, G, I, K) laser confocal micrograph of the YFP signal. Scale bars in B to K represent 45 µm. The FBL17 loss-of-function pollen phenotype is similar, if not identical, to the recently described cdka;1 mutant CITATION strongly supporting a cell cycle function of this F-box protein. An interesting hypothesis is that an SCFFBL17 E3 ligase targets one or more members of the plant cell cycle-dependent kinase inhibitors, called ICK/KRPs (reviewed in CITATION, CITATION). In such a scenario, ICK/KRPs would accumulate in fbl17 mutant pollen and consequently would inhibit the kinase activity mimicking the cdka;1 mutant phenotype. To test this possibility, we first carried out yeast two-hybrid experiments, with binding and activation domain fusions of both FBL17 and all seven KRPs being tested. However, no strong interaction between FBL17 and KRPs were observed (not shown). This lack of protein interaction was, however, not unexpected because most SCF substrates require post-translational modifications CITATION, which may not occur in yeast. To circumvent this problem we performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments with three ICK/KRPs, KRP3, KRP5 and KRP7 that are expressed in pollen CITATION. We also used KRP1, which is not expressed in pollen, as a control. No signal could be recovered when split-YFP fusion constructs of KRP1, KRP3, or KRP5 were co-injected with FBL17 into Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells (data not shown). In contrast, we observed a weak but distinct nuclear interaction when FBL17 and KRP7 were co-injected (CITATION). KRP7 protein shows strong sequence similarity to KRP6, which was recently found to be expressed in pollen, as early as meiosis CITATION. Interestingly, KRP6 turnover is necessary for cell cycle progression during gametogenesis. Thus we ordered krp6 and krp7 mutants from the stock centers but only krp6 mutants could be obtained. In one T-DNA insertion mutant line, called krp6-1, KRP6 expression was abolished as indicated by qRT-PCR analysis (not shown). Homozygous krp6-1 mutant plants showed no visible mutant phenotype. Strikingly, the krp6-1+/− fbl17-1+/− double mutant, showed a partial rescue of fbl17 pollen phenotype in F1 with the ratio of aberrant pollen of ∼35%, a number significantly lower than the ∼48% observed in fbl17+/− mutant (CITATION). From these experiments, we conclude that KRP6 and most likely KRP7 are targets of an SCFFBL17 during pollen development. Pollen from dehiscent anthers of wild type and the indicated genotypes was stained with DAPI and observed under UV illumination. n = total number.
!~MM~! A. thaliana plants used in this study were all derived from the Columbia-0 (Col-0) accession. The lines qrt1-1 CITATION, fbl17-1 (GABI-170E02) fbl17-2 (GABI-436F11), krp6 (SAIL_548-B03) and fie (GABI_362D08) were obtained from the NASC stock centre. The position of the T-DNA inserts in the fbl17 lines were verified by DNA sequencing of the flanking regions amplified with primer pairs GABI T-DNA LP/7, GABI T-DNA RP/8 for fbl17-1 and GABI T-DNA LP/9, GABI T-DNA RP/10 for fbl17-2 (see oligo table below the GABI web site: http://www.gabi-kat.de). Those primer pairs were also used for genotyping. The transgenic lines E2Fa/DPa over-expressing line and pHTR10-HTR10-mRFP have been described elsewhere CITATION, CITATION. For most experiments, plants were grown on soil under standard greenhouse conditions (22°C, 16 h light photoperiod). Analysis of the fbl17 alleles transmission efficiency and selection of heterozygous fbl17 plants were performed by growing seedlings on sterile 1× Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with 10 µg/ml sulfadiazine. The complementation genomic construct was generated by insertion of a 3747nt-long PCR amplified genomic product from (–)868 bp to the stop codon into the NotI site of pCBI CITATION. PCR amplification of this genomic fragment was done with the primers 11 and 12 (see table below). The construct was transformed into fbl17-1 mutant using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV31O1 with the floral-dip methods CITATION. Primers 3 and 4 were used to identify homozygous knock-out mutants rescued by the full genomic construct. The promFBL17∶GUS construct was created by PCR amplifying 868nt of the promoter region with primers 5 and 6 and cloning of the fragment in pENTR1A vector between the EcoRI and XhoI sites. The promoter fragment was then remobilized by LR clonase II recombination (Invitrogen) into pMDC162 CITATION. For the BiFc constructs FBL17, ASK11, KRP1, 3, 5 and 7 cDNAs were first amplified by PCR without their STOP codons, cloned into pDONR 201 (except FBL17 which was cloned into pDONR 207) by BP clonase recombination (Invitrogen) before to be transferred into the split-YFP destination vector pSYN and pSYC CITATION by LR clonase reaction (Invitrogen). 35S∶YFP fusion were obtained by remobilizing FBL17, ASK11, and KRPs cDNA from the pDONR vector to the plasmid pEXSG-YFP CITATION. Oligo Sequence (5′→3′) 1 TCGAGAGTGATTTTGACGCGACG 2 CCGAGAGCCAAAGAGTGGAGAG 3 GTAAATTCTTGATCTTTGGTTTGCA 4 GTTTTTCCATTTTGTAAGATATTTG 5 AAAAAGCAGGCTCGTGAGATTTTGGGAG 6 AGAAAGCTGGGTATCACCAAATCCTTGAG 7 GTCAGTTTCCTTTTTATCCAG 8 GACGAAAATTGTGACGAGTCC 9 GCCGAGAAGTTTTCAGAAACC 10 TGTCAGTTTCCTTTTTATCCAGG 11 ATAAGAATGCGGCCGCTGTATATGATTTGCGAG 12 ATAAGAATGCGGCCGCGATGAACAAGATTAGAG 13 gaaaccgaaaccgaaacctc 14 ccctcactcactggactcgt Total RNA for Q-PCR was extracted from 6 days-old E2Fa-DPa OE and Col-0 wild-type seedlings grown on sterile 1× Murashige and Skoog agar medium with the Plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen). For krp6-1 mutant analysis, total RNA was extracted from inflorescences of krp6-1 homozygous mutant and Col-0 wild-type plants. 1 µg of total RNA was reverse transcribed with the Superscript II RT kit (Invitrogen) and a mixture of random hexamers and oligo dT (18) according to the manufacturer's instruction. PCR was performed using oligos 1 and 2 (FBL17 specific) and oligos 13 and 14 (KRP6 specific) in a total volume of 15 µL SYBR Green Master mix (Roche) on a Lightcycler LC480 apparatus (Roche) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The ACTIN2, AT4G34270 and AT4G26410 genes were used as internal controls for the normalization of the q-PCR. Developing seeds were prepared from silliques at different days after pollination (DAP) and mounted on microscope slides in a clearing solution of 8∶2∶1 Chloral hydrate: distilled water: glycerol as described in CITATION. Observations were performed on a Zeiss Axiophot using 20× and 40× DIC optic. Pollen viability was assessed by mounting pollen in Alexander's stain CITATION and observed by transmitted light microscopy. For DAPI staining of pollen grains, anthers at different stage were dissected and mounted in DAPI solution (DAPI 5 µg/ml, PIPES 50 mM, EGTA 5 mM, NP-40 0,1%, and DMSO 10%) and incubated for 30′ before the observation on a Nikon fluorescent stereo-microscope E800 equipped with a 100× optic. Quantification of DNA content was performed with the software ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) on images taken with constant settings. Background fluorescence values were subtracted to the measure to correct for difference in staining intensity. The obtained measures were normalized against those of generative prophase nuclei from wild type bi-cellular pollen sampled in pre-dehiscent anthers, which are by definition at 2C. Pictures of qrt-1/fbl17-1 and qrt-1 mutant pollen were obtained on a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope as a Z-stack subsequently flattened into a single image in the ImageJ software. GUS staining of anthers at different stages was performed as described in CITATION and the state of pollen development was determined from the pollen DAPI staining taken from the same flower at the same time. The ASK1 to ASK19 cDNAs cloned as fusions to the GAL4 activation domain and GAL4 binding domain, respectively, in Gateway-compatible pGADT7 and pGBT9 (Clontech) yeast two-hybrid vector have been described in CITATION. Full length FBL17 cDNA was mobilized from the entry vector pDONR FBL17 to both pGADT7 and pGBKT7 (Clonetech) with LR clonase II kit (Invitrogen). The yeast strain AH109 (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4, gal80, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1) was transformed with the appropriate combinations of bait and prey vectors. Transformants were selected on synthetic defined (SD)/-Leu/-Trp (SD- LW) medium for 2 days at 30°C. Weak and strong interactions were tested by transferring transformants on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His (-LWH) with 5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) and SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade (-LWA) media, respectively, allowing growth for 3 days at 30°C. For infiltration of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves the A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 pMP90RK was used. The A. tumefaciens strains containing the BiFc vectors were infiltrated as described CITATION. Infiltration was performed on the abaxial leaf side of two-month-old plants and analyzed 3 to 5 days later.
