!~ABS~! Phytochromes are dimeric chromoproteins that regulate plant responses to red (R) and far-red (FR) light. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes five phytochrome apoproteins: type I phyA mediates responses to FR, and type II phyB–phyE mediate shade avoidance and classical R/FR-reversible responses. In this study, we describe the complete in vivo complement of homodimeric and heterodimeric type II phytochromes. Unexpectedly, phyC and phyE do not homodimerize and are present in seedlings only as heterodimers with phyB and phyD. Roles in light regulation of hypocotyl length, leaf area, and flowering time are demonstrated for heterodimeric phytochromes containing phyC or phyE. Heterodimers of phyC and chromophoreless phyB are inactive, indicating that phyC subunits require spectrally intact dimer partners to be active themselves. Consistent with the obligate heterodimerization of phyC and phyE, phyC is made unstable by removal of its phyB binding partner, and overexpression of phyE results in accumulation of phyE monomers. Following a pulse of red light, phyA, phyB, phyC, and phyD interact in vivo with the PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR3 basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, and this interaction is FR reversible. Therefore, most or all of the type I and type II phytochromes, including heterodimeric forms, appear to function through PIF-mediated pathways. These findings link an unanticipated diversity of plant R/FR photoreceptor structures to established phytochrome signaling mechanisms.
!~RES~! Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed with the Arabidopsis phyA through phyE N-terminal chromophore binding/photosensory regions and with large and small fragments of the C-terminal regions as shown in Figure 1A. No interaction was detected among the 600– to 650–amino acid N-terminal regions, which is consistent with previous observation that the truncated N-terminal regions of phyA and phyB remain monomeric when expressed in plants (CITATION; CITATION). The large C-550 PAS-PAS-HKRD phy regions and the small C-200 phy regions exhibit distinctive patterns of self- and cross-interaction. Figure 1B shows β-galactosidase assay results for all combinations of these C-terminal regions. In control assays, while all of the phy C-550 and C-200 fusions to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) have very low background activities by themselves, several of the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD) fusions show autoactivation of β-galactosidase, notably the BD-phyB-C550 and BD-phyD-C200 constructs. Taking these background values into account, assay results indicate that the following binding interactions are mediated by sequences in both the phytochrome C550 and C200 clones: A/A, D/D, B/D, B/E, and D/E. Interaction between the phyB and phyE C termini is seen in the AD-phyE-C550 X BD-phyB-C550 assay but not in the reciprocal assay or in assays using the C200 regions of these apoproteins (Figure 1B). The β-galactosidase enzyme values for homodimerization of phyB are low and are seen only with the C200 region. Nevertheless, these assays are consistent with all of the heterodimerization interactions previously observed (CITATION) and with observations that homodimerization of both phyA and phyB is mediated by sequences in their PAS domains and C-terminal 200 amino acids (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although the C-200 and C-550 AD-phyC and BD-phyC fusion proteins show no interaction with themselves or any other phytochrome in Figure 1B, they are expressed in yeast (Figure 1C). It is possible that these protein fusions do not fold correctly in yeast cells. No evidence for homodimerization of phyE C-terminal sequences is seen in yeast, although phyE interacts with phyD (Figure 1B), demonstrating that phyE C-terminal sequences are capable of binding interactions in this assay. These findings suggest that phyC and phyE may not homodimerize. To further investigate this, full-length phyB, phyC, and phyE proteins were synthesized in vitro and their quaternary structures were assayed by nondenaturing gel electrophoresis. Supplemental Figure 1 online shows that, although phyB migrates as a homodimer in the presence or absence of phycocyanobilin chromophore, neither phyC nor phyE forms a discrete homodimer band. To test the ability of phyC to bind to itself or to other phytochromes in vivo, transgenes containing epitope-tagged phyC driven by the 35S promoter were introduced into No-0 wild-type Arabidopsis (Figure 2A ). It has previously been observed that the phyC apoprotein is poorly overexpressed when driven by the 35S promoter but that this additional phyC produces an enlarged leaf phenotype (CITATION). Figure 2B shows that phyC tagged with six myc epitopes on either its N (m6-COE) or C terminus (COE-m6) can confer the increased leaf area phenotype. Blot analysis shows that the m6-phyC and phyC-m6 proteins are present at levels similar to endogenous phyC in seedling extracts of these lines, so the transgene products are not substantially overexpressed. Immunoprecipitation (IP) of the extracts with anti-myc antibody pulls down either m6-phyC or phyC-m6 but fails to co-IP native phyC (Figure 2C). The tagged phyC proteins also do not pull down phyA or phyE. However, they both co-IP phyB and very weakly pull down phyD (Figure 2C). These results suggest that phyC does not form homodimers in these lines but, instead, heterodimerizes with phyB and to a small extent with phyD. It should be noted that, throughout this article, extract and IP immunoblot panels in figure panels are not always comparable exposures and cannot be used to directly compare the levels of the phytochromes in one panel with those in other panels. Each panel, however, represents results from a single blot so lanes within panels are directly comparable. [[FIGURE]] Formation of phyB/phyC heterodimers (phyB/C) and a very weak signal for formation of phyC/D heterodimers was previously observed via IP of epitope-tagged phyB and phyD (CITATION). To confirm that phyC does not bind to itself in vivo, doubly transgenic lines, containing both the m6-COE gene and a 35S:his6-phyC (his6-COE) construct were produced. Figure 2D shows that these lines contain similar levels of the transgene products and native phyC and that IP of m6-phyC from extracts of these plants does not coprecipitate either the native phyC or the his6-phyC. Expression of m6-phyC from the 35S promoter likely results in that protein being expressed at levels and in cells that are not representative of the normal pattern of the native PHYC promoter, and this could affect the IP results. Therefore, transgenes with a PHYC upstream promoter region fused to either the β-glucuronidase (GUS) or m6-phyC coding region were introduced into the Columbia (Col) wild-type or Col phyC-3 mutant backgrounds. The PPHYC-GUS fusion is broadly expressed throughout seedlings, in a pattern similar to the PPHYB-GUS fusion (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). In Figure 3A , the PPHYC:m6-phyC transgene (m6-PHYC) is seen to fully complement the red light hypocotyl elongation phenotype of the phyC-3 null mutant (CITATION). Figure 3B shows that IP of m6-phyC from extracts of WT(m6-PHYC) lines does not coprecipitate native phyC, confirming that phyC does not bind to itself in planta. However, phyB strongly coprecipitates with m6-phyC irrespective of whether native phyC is present or absent. In addition, as in Figure 2C, phyD very weakly co-IPs with m6-phyC, indicating that phyC can bind to phyD but predominantly dimerizes with phyB. The experiments in Figures 2C and 3B were performed with dark-grown seedlings, while those in Figure 2D were done with light-grown seedlings. Homodimerization of phyC was not detected irrespective of the light conditions. [[FIGURE]] Yeast two-hybrid experiments indicate that the C terminus of the phyE apoprotein interacts with the phyB and phyD C termini, but not with itself (Figure 1B). To determine the binding characteristics of phyE in vivo, a PPHYE:phyE-myc6 transgene (PHYE-m6) was introduced into Landsberg erecta (Ler) wild-type, phyE, and phyB phyE (abbreviated phyBE) host plants. The phyE mutation causes early flowering in a phyB background (CITATION), but no effect of the phyE mutation by itself has been reported. Figure 4A shows that the phyE mutant flowers a few days earlier than the wild type under short days and that the PHYE-m6 transgene is biologically active; it induces delayed flowering in a wild-type background and complements the phyE early-flowering phenotype in both the phyE and phyBE backgrounds. Figure 4B shows that IP of phyE-m6 from extracts of dark-grown WT(PHYE-m6) seedlings fails to coprecipitate native phyE but does co-IP phyB and phyD. Co-IP of phyB and/or phyD with phyE-m6 is also observed in the complemented phyE(PHYE-m6) and phyBE(PHYE-m6) lines (Figure 4B). Similar results to these were obtained from IP of extracts of light-grown seedlings. Therefore, in seedlings, phyE is present as phyB/E and phyD/E heterodimers but not as a homodimer. Although not quantified, phyD was more readily detected than phyB in the phyE-m6 co-IP fractions in these experiments, suggesting that phyD/E heterodimers likely predominate over phyB/E dimers. [[FIGURE]] Together with the data presented by CITATION, Figures 2 to 4⇑⇑ provide a comprehensive assessment of the in vivo binding of each of the four Arabidopsis type II phytochromes to itself, each other, and phyA. Three of the five observed heteromeric complexes of these molecules (phyB/C, phyB/D, and phyB/E) were previously shown by size-exclusion chromatography to migrate at molecular masses characteristic of phytochrome dimers (CITATION), so it is likely that the interaction of phyD with phyC and phyE also results from dimerization of these proteins. No type II phytochrome shows detectable binding interaction with type I phyA. Therefore, we conclude that the phytochrome array in wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings consists of homodimers of phyA, phyB, and phyD, the phyB/C, phyB/D, phyB/E, and phyD/E heterodimers, and a very small amount of phyC/D (Figure 4C). To estimate the relative seedling pool sizes of the different forms of phyB, the amounts of phyB homodimer and phyB-containing heterodimers in extracts of the phyB(myc-PHYB) line were determined using a quantitative IP approach. In Figure 5 , samples from two independent dark-grown seedling anti-myc IPs were separated by electrophoresis along with standard curves of purified apoproteins, and the quantities of each immunoprecipitated phytochrome were determined from immunoblots. In dark-grown phyB(myc-PHYB) seedlings, the levels of the myc6-phyB, phyC, phyD, and phyE proteins per 1000 μg of total extract protein were calculated as 60 to 80 ng, 3 to 5 ng, 3 to 4 ng, and 0.5 to 2 ng, respectively (Figure 5). This indicates that, out of the total phyB-containing phytochrome in these dark-grown seedlings, the majority (∼85%) is homodimeric, with low levels (2 to 7%) of the three heterodimeric forms. These values are not markedly different from the relative levels of the four type II phytochromes (67% phyB, 13% phyC, 10% phyD, and 10% phyE) previously measured in dark-grown wild-type seedlings (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] CITATION observed that the level of phyC phytochrome is decreased fivefold relative to the wild type in phyB but not phyA mutants. Figure 6A shows that, in diverse Arabidopsis Ler lines containing single or multiple phy mutations, reduction in phyC level correlates with presence of a phyB null mutation, indicating that, in the absence of its principle binding partner, phyC is destabilized. There is no significant effect of phyD or phyE mutations by themselves on the level of phyC, but there is a small additive effect of combining the phyB and phyD mutations (Figure 6A). This suggests that phyD can weakly stabilize phyC by dimerizing with it when phyB is absent. To test whether loss of phyB shifts the dimerization of phyC to other type II phytochromes or even to itself, extracts of phyB(m6-COE) lines were immunoprecipitated with the myc antibody. Figure 6B shows that there is no evidence for phyC homodimerization in these lines, but dimerization of the m6-phyC protein with phyD is increased. Therefore, a phyB null mutation in Arabidopsis has complex effects. It not only removes homodimeric phyB and a number of phyB/phyX heterodimeric phytochromes but also causes a reduction in the total level of phyC and an increase in the level of the phyC/D heterodimer. [[FIGURE]] The level of phyE is not altered in single or multiple phyB or phyD mutants (Figure 6A). Therefore, unlike phyC, absence of its binding partner phytochromes does not destabilize phyE. To test whether the absence of both phyB and phyD causes phyE to either homodimerize or heterodimerize with phyC or phyA, a PPHYE:myc3-phyE gene was introduced into the Ler phyBD double mutant. Figure 7A shows that, in these phyBD(m3-PHYE) lines, the absence of phyB and phyD does not cause m3-phyE to dimerize with native phyE or to heterodimerize with phyC or phyA. This suggests that excess phyE molecules remain monomeric. In Figure 7B, native gel analysis of lines overexpressing each of the five myc6-tagged phytochromes shows that phyA, phyB, and phyD, which are capable of forming homodimers, are almost exclusively present as dimers. The 35S:m6-phyC line also contains only dimers of the tagged protein, but m6-phyC is not significantly overexpressed (Figures 2C and 2D). By contrast, overexpressed m6-phyE is predominantly present in plant extracts as a monomer, a form that is not present when myc-tagged phyE is expressed at a normal level from the PHYE promoter (Figure 7B). Hence, cells treat excess amounts of the two obligately heterodimeric phytochromes, phyC and phyE, in different ways: excess phyC is degraded, whereas excess phyE is stable but monomeric. [[FIGURE]] If the instability of phyC in phyB mutant lines (Figure 6A) results from lack of its major dimerization partner, expression of chromophoreless phyB containing a Cys357Ser mutation (PHYBC357S) in the phyB mutant background should restore the phyC level. Figure 8A shows that this in fact occurs. However, expression of chromophoreless phyB does not increase the sensitivity of hypocotyl elongation of the phyB(PHYBC357S) line relative to the phyB mutant over a range of R light fluences (Figure 8B). This indicates that both phyB homodimers consisting of two chromophoreless apoproteins and the presumed phyBC357S/phyC heterodimers that are formed in these lines are inactive. Therefore, phyC requires dimerization with chromophore-bearing phyB to have activity. [[FIGURE]] As illustrated in Figure 4C, one prediction of the dimerization profiles of phyC and phyE is that the light response deficiencies of Arabidopsis phyC and phyE null mutants result from a lack of specific phytochrome heterodimers. Moreover, unless phyC or phyE monomers have biological activity, mutational loss of their binding partner phys should disrupt the activities of either of these two photoreceptors. It is predicted that a phyBD double mutant completely lacks type II phytochrome homo- and heterodimers (Figure 4C) and should be phenotypically identical to phyBCD, phyBDE, and phyBCDE multiple mutants. Although not all combinations of phy mutations have been constructed, it appears that this prediction is not borne out. Figure 9 shows flowering times under short days and hypocotyl lengths under R of phyB, phyD, and phyE mutants and lines containing combinations of these mutations. The phyB and phyE mutants flower early relative to the wild type, and combination of phyB with either phyD or phyE exacerbates this phenotype. This is consistent with loss of the predicted phytochrome forms in these lines (Figure 4C). However, the phyBDE triple mutant flowers several days earlier than the phyBD double mutant, illustrating that, in the absence of its phyB and phyD dimerization partners, phyE has biological activity. Relative to the phyBD line, the phyBDE triple mutant also has elongated hypocotyls under R at the seedling stage (Figure 9). It has previously been observed that these two lines differ in flowering time at 16°C and that the phyABDE quadruple mutant flowers early and has altered expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS T mRNA relative to the phyABD triple mutant at 16°C (CITATION). These light responses demonstrate that a small flux of signaling activity through pathways involving phyE, mediated either by undetected amounts of homodimers of this protein or by activity of phyE monomers, can have physiological effects. [[FIGURE]] Similar reasoning suggests that, because phyC forms only heterodimers, a phyABDE quadruple mutant should contain no dimeric phytochrome (Figure 4C). However, phyABDE does not develop under continuous R with a completely etiolated phenotype; it has very small but significant increases in cotyledon area and angle under R compared with in the dark (CITATION). Hence, a small sensitivity to R remains in Arabidopsis seedlings that contain only phyC. Again, whether this is mediated through undetected phyC homodimers or phyC monomers is not known. A line expressing a 35S:PIF3-myc6 transgene (PIF3-m6) was constructed and, as previously observed (CITATION), showed hyposensitivity to R light (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Extracts of seedlings of this line harvested over a 10-min time course following a 30-s pulse of R were prepared and immunoprecipitated with the anti-myc antibody. Figure 10A shows that, by 10 min following the R pulse, the PIF3-m6 protein is shifted in migration, due to phosphorylation (CITATION), and is beginning to be degraded as previously observed for native PIF3 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By 1 min after the R pulse, phyA, phyB, phyC, and phyD are all detected in the PIF3-m6 immunoprecipitate, whereas they are not detected in control samples from untransformed lines or from the non-R-treated samples (Figure 10A). Therefore, all of the phytochromes, with the possible exception of phyE, bind either directly or indirectly to PIF3 upon their conversion to Pfr in vivo. [[FIGURE]] phyA and phyB synthesized in vitro and assembled with a phycocyanobilin chromophore co-IP selectively in their Pfr forms with a GAL4-PIF3 fusion protein, indicating that these two phys bind directly to PIF3 after exposure to light (CITATION). In addition, the isolated PIF3 APB domain binds in vitro to phyB but not to phyC or phyD (CITATION). Therefore, the association of the Pfr forms of phyC and phyD with PIF3 in vivo (Figure 10A) more likely results from PIF3 binding to phyB/C and phyB/D heterodimers through their phyB subunits than from direct phyC-to-PIF3 and phyD-to-PIF3 binding. The immunoprecipitate panels for the anti-phy antibodies in Figure 10 are from long exposures of chemiluminescent blots to film, suggesting that only a small fraction of each of these phytochromes is interacting with PIF3. This is expected because PIF3 is predominantly nuclear (CITATION), and, in dark-grown seedlings treated with a R pulse, only a small fraction of each of the phytochromes is located in the nucleus (CITATION). Colocalization of phyB–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) with PIF3–cyan fluorescent protein in nuclear bodies occurs within 2 min of exposure to R (CITATION), indicating that interaction of these proteins within the nucleus can be rapidly induced by light. However, it cannot be ruled out that, if a small fraction of PIF3 is in fact localized to the cytoplasm, the phyA–phyD that co-IP with PIF3-m6 in Figure 10A could be from the cytosolic phytochrome pools. Either way, it is expected that the majority of PIF3 molecules and the majority of each of the phytochromes are not in the same cellular compartment under the conditions of this experiment, so their interaction should be limited. Of all of the phytochromes, phyC is the most readily detected as binding to PIF3, perhaps because of high specificity and titer of the anti-phyC antibody. Immunoprecipitation data obtained up to this time for phyE interaction with PIF3-m6 in vivo are inconclusive (Figure 10A). Figure 10B shows that, using 15-s pulses of light, induction by R of co-IP of phyA, phyB, phyC, and phyD with PIF3-m6 is at least partially reversible with FR. Since phyC is present in seedling extracts as a heterodimer, these results demonstrate that phytochrome heterodimers interact with PIF3 in an R/FR-reversible manner and likely function through PIF-mediated pathways.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana phyB-1, phyD-1, and phyE-1mutant lines and the multiply mutant lines generated from these are in the Ler genetic background (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The phyC-3 mutant is in the Col background (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized and planted on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.8% agar without sucrose. The plates were incubated in the dark for 3 d at 4°C, exposed to fluorescent light at room temperature for 3 h to induce uniform germination, and then transferred to the growth conditions described in the figure legends. R (670 nm) and FR (735 nm) light were supplied by LEDs in an E-30LED growth chamber (Percival). Hypocotyl lengths were determined by laying out at least 20 seedlings per treatment on 0.8% agar plates, photographing them, and measuring the hypocotyls using ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health). First primary leaf areas were measured by excising these organs from 10-d-old seedlings grown under fluorescent light (60 μmol m−2 s−1), placing them on agar plates, and determining their areas using ImageJ. Flowering experiments were conducted in a growth chamber (Conviron) containing fluorescent bulbs (160 μmol m−2 s−1) at 21°C. Flowering time was measured as the day on which the first floral bud became visible at the center of the rosette. Histochemical staining of seedlings for GUS activity was performed as described (CITATION). All plant transformation plasmids were constructed in vectors derived from pBI123 (CITATION). These carried selectable marker genes encoding kanamycin resistance, designated pBI clones, or gentamicin resistance, designated pGNT clones. Full-length PHYA, PHYB, PHYC, and PHYD cDNA sequences from the Col ecotype and a PHYE cDNA sequence from the Ler ecotype were used in construction of all recombinant clones. The phyB(myc-PHYB) and WT(myc-DOE) lines were as described (CITATION). The PHYB, PHYC, and PHYE cDNA sequences were translationally fused at their N termini or their C termini to the myc6, his6, or myc3 epitope tags and placed under the control of the 35S promoter, a PHYC gene promoter region, or the PHYB or PHYE gene promoters previously described (CITATION), as indicated for each construct. DNA sequences, relevant restriction sites, and protein reading frames of the N-terminal and C-terminal cloning junctions from the epitope-tagged transgenes are presented in Supplemental Figure 4 online. DNA oligonucleotides used in construction of recombinant genes are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The PHYC promoter fragment contained 3149 bp of Col genomic sequence upstream of the ATG start codon. For the PPHYC:GUS transgene, a fragment containing the 3.15-kb PHYC promoter and the first 21 amino acids of the phyC polypeptide was translationally fused to the GUS sequence. The PHYBC357S transgene was identical to the PB-phyB construct (CITATION) except for a G-to-C substitution at base pair 1070 of the phyB coding sequence, changing the chromophore attachment site Cys-357 to a Ser. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed with a QuikChange Lightning kit (Stratagene). The PIF3 coding sequence was amplified by RT-PCR from Col wild-type dark-grown seedling cDNA, prepared with a SuperScript III cDNA kit (Invitrogen). Plant transformations were performed by the floral dip method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. The pBI-35S:myc6-phyC (m6-COE), pBI-35S:phyC-myc6 (COE-m6), and pGNT-35S:his6-phyC (his6-COE) T-DNA regions were transformed into No-0 wild type, and the pBI-35S:myc6-phyC (m6-COE) construct was also transformed into No-0 phyB-1. The pBI-PPHYC:myc6-phyC (m6-PHYC) construct was transformed into Col wild type and phyC-3. The pBI-PPHYE:phyE-myc6 (PHYE-m6) T-DNA region was transformed into the Ler wild-type, phyE-1, phyB-1 phyD-1, and phyB-1 phyE-1 backgrounds. The pBI-PPHYE:myc3-phyE (m3-PHYE) gene was transformed into Ler phyB-1 phyD-1. The PHYE promoter fragment consisted of 1.8 kb of genomic sequence upstream of the phyE start codon. The pBI-PPHYB:phyBCys357Ser (PHYBC357S) T-DNA was transformed into No-0 phyB-1, and the pBI-35S:myc6-phyA (m6-AOE) and pBI-35S:myc6-phyE (m6-EOE) constructs were transformed into No-0 wild type. pBI-35S:PIF3-myc6 was transformed into the Col wild type. In each of these transformations, multiple independent homozygous T3 lines expressing the PHY transgene were identified and used in experiments. Seedling protein extracts were prepared, and IPs were performed with the anti-myc 9E10 antibody as described (CITATION). Seedling extract and IP samples were analyzed by 6% SDS-PAGE, immunoblotting, and detection of antigen with the monoclonal antibodies anti-myc 9E10, anti-phyA 073d, anti-phyB B6B3, anti-phyC C11 and C13, anti-phyD 2C1, and anti-phyE 7B3 (CITATION). The his6 tag was detected with the RGS-His antibody (Qiagen). Dilutions of the primary antibodies were from 1:200 to 1:2000 and were determined empirically for each antibody sample. Chemiluminescent detection of primary antibodies was performed with horseradish peroxidase–conjugated secondary antibody and Supersignal West Pico reagents (Thermo Fisher Scientific). For each IP experiment, a set of gel lanes was loaded with the protein extract on the basis of protein concentration and a set of gel lanes was loaded with IP samples as equivalent volumes from precipitations performed in parallel. For native gel electrophoresis, 7-d-old dark-grown seedlings were ground at 0°C under dim green safe light at a 1:1 weight:volume ratio in nondenaturing extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM NaCl, and 5 mM EDTA) containing Complete EDTA-free Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche Diagnostics), and the extracts were centrifuged for 3 min at 4°C. Proteins were separated on 4 to 20% gradient PAGE gels in Tris/borate/EDTA buffer for 40 h at 4°C. Gel blotting and probing with the myc antibody were the same as for SDS-PAGE gels. Yeast protein extracts were prepared using the urea/SDS method in the Yeast Protocols Handbook of the Matchmaker GAL4 System 3 (Clontech). Anti-GAD antibody (Clontech) was used at 1:1000 dilution and was detected by chemiluminescence as described above. Seedlings of the phyB(myc-PHYB) line (CITATION) were grown for 7 d in darkness, extracted, and immunoprecipitated as two independent replicate experiments. Samples of tissue extracts containing 833 μg of total protein from the first experiment and 1000 μg from the second experiment were immunoprecipitated with the anti-myc antibody and fractionated by 6% SDS-PAGE along with standard curves of purified Escherichia coli–expressed phyB–phyE apoproteins (CITATION). Gels were blotted to nitrocellulose and probed with the anti-phy antibodies. Immunoblot chemiluminescence signals on autoradiography film were scanned and quantified by densitometry (CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed with materials and protocols from the Matchmaker GAL4 System 3 (Clontech). Regions from the PHY cDNA sequences encoding the following phy amino acid sequences were PCR amplified and cloned into the pGAD-T7 and pGBK-T7 vectors: phyA C-550 (D589-K1122) and phyA C-200 (Q930-K1122), phyB C-550 (E620-Y1172) and phyB C-200 (Q962-Y1172), phyC C-550 (Q578-I1111) and phyC C-200 (Q917-I1111), phyD C-550 (E624-S1164) and phyD C-200 (S955-S1164), and phyE C-550 (R570-K1112) and phyE C-200 (Q905-K1112). Primers used in PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Assays were performed under room light conditions. By introducing NdeI sites at their ATG start codons (see Supplemental Table 1 online), the full-length Arabidopsis Col wild-type PHYB and PHYC cDNA sequences were cloned into the pET3c expression vector and the Ler wild-type PHYE cDNA sequence was cloned into the pET-30a expression vector (Novagen). Plasmid DNA samples were amplified with primers 5′-TCCCGCGAAATTAATACGAC-3′ and 5′-CCGGATATAGTTCCTCCTTTCA-3′ to produce template PCR fragments, and these were transcribed and translated in the presence of 35S-methionine using reagents and protocols from the TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA kit (Promega). Following incubation for 90 min at 30°C for transcription/translation, 10 μM 3E-phycocyanobilin was added to some reactions, and incubations at 30°C were performed for an additional 90, 180, and 270 min. Labeled reactions were fractionated on 4 to 20% nondenaturing PAGE gels, dried, and exposed to autoradiography film. Phycocyanobilin was prepared from lyophilized Spirulina patensis (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PHYA (AT1G09570), PHYB (AT2G18790), PHYC (AT5G35840), PHYD (AT4G16250), PHYE (AT4G18130), and PIF3 (AT1G09530). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Native Gel Analysis of in Vitro–Translated phyB, phyC, and phyE with and without Phycocyanobilin Chromophore. Supplemental Figure 2. Histochemical Localization of PPHYB:GUS and PPHYC:GUS Expression in Light-Grown Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 3. Hypocotyl Lengths of Wild-Type and the 35S:PIF3-myc6 Transgenic Line Grown for 7 d under 25 μmol m−2 s−1 Continuous Red Light. Supplemental Figure 4. Sequences of PHYC, PHYE, PHYA, and PIF3 Epitope-Tagged Transgene Cloning Junctions. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotide Primers.
