!~ABS~! In a functional genomic screen performed by combining an Arabidopsis–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-fused complementary DNA (cDNA) library, rat fibroblasts as host and automatic microscopy, we found a short protein with a predictable trans-membrane domain encoded on chromosome 2. In rat fibroblasts, its pattern of distribution was to various organelle-like structures. From the databases, we learned that it has another family member in Arabidopsis and homologs in several other plants, Chlamydomonas and fungi, with a highly conserved N-terminal region. We named this protein from Arabidopsis short membrane protein (SMP) 2. No SMP homologs were found in mammalian sequence databases. When the full-length cDNAs of SMP2 was fused to YFP under the 35S promoter, comparable distribution was observed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, suggesting an unknown, evolutionarily conserved localization signal. Similar localization was observed when SMP2 was expressed in N. benthamiana leaves under the control of its own 5′ regulatory sequences. Colocalization studies with green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein chimeras revealed its colocalization with chloroplasts, peroxisomes, and mitochondria. No localization of SMP2 was observed in the Golgi. Immunostaining with specific antibodies corroborated the SMP2 localization to the three organelles.
!~RES~! When screening the Arabidopsis cDNA library in mammalian cells, we isolated a cDNA clone that labeled different organelles in rat embryonic fibroblasts. Sequencing the isolated cDNA revealed it to be At2g02510, an unknown short protein that had been previously found in a pool of mitochondrial membrane proteins (Brugiere et al. CITATION). At2g02510 has an additional unknown close homolog (84% identity) from Arabidopsis, At1g14450, isolated from a mitochondrial membrane fraction (Sunderhaus et al. CITATION). In addition, orthologous genes were found from Vitis vinifera (CAO46927.1), Populus trichocarpa (ABK94107.1), Picea sitchensis (ABK21539.1), and Oryza sativa (BAD15588.1), exhibiting 60% to 80% identity from Physcomitrella patens (XP_001776031.1) with 49% identity, and from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (XP_001700920.1) with 40% identity (Fig. 1). These organisms represent dicots and monocots, annuals and perennials, trees and herbaceous plants, and higher and lower plants, suggesting an important conserved role for these proteins. Several types of fungi also had orthologous genes exhibiting 46% to 37% identities (not shown). The annotations of the proteins from all plants and fungi were unknown, whereas the homolog from Chlamydomonas is annotated as a 7-kDa subunit of NADH/ubiquinone oxidoreductase. No homologous genes were found in animals. Expression profiles using Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION) showed both Arabidopsis genes to have constant expression throughout plant development. In a comparison of their expression in different tissues, slightly higher levels were observed in the stamen and various root cells (lateral roots, elongation zone, root hair zone, epidermal atrichoblasts, and stele; Supplementary Fig. 1). In addition, the expression of At2g02510 has been found to be dramatically increased in cells cultured in suspension (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). We checked the two unknown proteins using the Arabidopsis subcellular localization database SUBA (Heazlewood et al. CITATION) and found that At1g14450 is predicted to localize to the mitochondria and the ER. The At2g02510 protein was predicted to localize to the mitochondria, to the nucleus, and the Golgi. [[FIGURE]]  The two full-length Arabidopsis cDNAs were isolated and named SMP1 (At1g14450) and SMP2 (At2g02510). When expressed in rat fibroblasts as YFP fusions, SMP1 labeled a network resembling the ER (not shown). SMP2 localized to various bodies of different sizes, ranging from 0.2 to 5 μm (Fig. 1a). When these two cDNA–YFP fusions were transferred to a plant expression vector and transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves, their localization pattern was very similar to the respective localization in rat fibroblasts: SMP1 localized to an ER-like network (not shown) and SMP2 to different-sized bodies (Fig. 1b). The ER localization of SMP1 was not corroborated by staining with specific antibodies which showed distribution pattern similar to SMP2 (not shown), thus, the construct could no longer be used. The similarity in localization of SMP2 in animal and plant cells suggested an evolutionarily conserved localization signal recognized in both plant and animal cells, even though this protein is not normally expressed in the latter. To ensure that the observed subcellular localization was not an artifact of overexpression, the fluorescent chimera of SMP2 was sub-cloned downstream of its own 5′-flanking genomic sequence. This construct was coexpressed in N. benthamiana leaves together with RFP chimera of SMP2 under the regulation of the strong viral (CaMV) 35S promoter. Figure 2a–c shows almost identical subcellular localization of the YFP and RFP chimeras, with the exception of some minor red signals that were not visible in the green channel (arrows in Fig. 2a–c). We therefore continued our study with constructs containing SMP2 under the regulation of the 35S promoter. [[FIGURE]]  We determined to which organelles SMP2 is localized in plant cells. Specific markers used were ST-mRFP as a Golgi marker (Saint-Jore-Dupas et al. CITATION), GFP-βATPase as a mitochondrial marker (Logan and Leaver CITATION), and a RFP-peroxisomal marker (Nelson et al. CITATION). We found no colocalization of SMP2 with the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 2d–f). However, it did colocalize with the mitochondrial marker, as predicted and shown biochemically (Fig. 2h–j) and encircled peroxisomes and chloroplasts (Fig. 2g–l). No classical targeting signals were found using the public software PROSITE (http://npsa-pbil.ibcp.fr/cgibin/npsa_automat.pl?page=npsa_prosite.html) or SMART (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/). When GFP–SMP2 fusion was made (GFP at the N-terminus of SMP2), the opposite of SMP2–YFP fusion, it formed similar pattern of localization when transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves (not shown). Thus, no interference of the fluorescent protein with subcellular localization of SMP2 was observed. To reveal where the targeting signal is located in the protein, we generated deletion mutants and fused them to GFP. A C-terminal fusion was produced and two N-terminus GFP fusions, one with the N-terminus and one with both the N-terminus and the trans-membrane domain (Fig. 3a). When transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves, all constructs showed diffuse cytoplasmic distribution (Fig. 3b–d). The construct containing both the N-terminus and transmembrane domain occasionally formed aggregates and an ER-like pattern (Fig. 3d). When coexpressed with the full-length SMP2 fused to RFP, it was found that none of the aggregates or ER-like pattern formed by this deletion mutant colocalized with any of the organelles stained by SMP2 (Fig. 3e). This suggested that the aggregates and the ER-like structures that randomly appeared are non-relevant to the full-length protein and that sequences found in all three domains are important for the correct targeting of SMP2. [[FIGURE]]  Specific antibody was generated against a conserved peptide from the SMPs. To verify its specificity, total protein extracts were prepared from wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis plants, Arabidopsis plants expressing either SMP1–YFP or SMP2–YFP, and N. benthamiana leaves. In all plants, an ∼8-kDa band was labeled, corresponding to the predicted size of the SMPs (Fig. 4). Higher molecular weight bands (∼35 kDa) were labeled in the transgenic plants expressing the SMP–YFP chimeras. Identical molecular weight bands were also detected by anti-GFP antibodies further supporting the identity of these bands (Fig. 4). In addition, in Arabidopsis, an even higher molecular weight (>70 kDa) protein was labeled by the anti-SMP antibody (Fig. 4). Since no other homologous sequences are present in Arabidopsis, it is unlikely that the antibody cross-reacted with non-relevant proteins; we can therefore not rule out the possibility that SMP is part of a larger complex that is not fully unassembled by SDS-PAGE. In N. benthamiana, only the small 8-kDa protein was labeled. We therefore used this antibody for in situ immunogold labeling of endogenous N. benthamiana SMPs. Figure 5 shows that all three organelles, chloroplasts including inner membranes, mitochondria, and peroxisomes, were labeled by the anti-SMP antibody. Counting the gold particles in the three organelles and cytoplasm showed that mitochondria stained better than chloroplasts and peroxisomes and that staining of all three organelles was higher than the background in the cytoplasm (Supplementary Fig. 2). However, differences between the YFP patterns and the antibody labeling were revealed: the chloroplast and peroxisome staining looked different; while the YFP signal was stronger around peroxisomes and chloroplasts, the antibody labeled specifically chloroplasts inner membranes and the inner part of peroxisomes (compare Figs. 2j–l and 5b, c, g). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was seeded on Murashige and Skoog media, incubated for 4 days at 4°C in the dark, and then transferred to a growth room at 24°C under 16 h light/8 h dark. After 7–10 days, seedlings were transferred to pots with peat and grown in a temperature-controlled (23°C) greenhouse under continuous light. N. benthamiana plants were grown in peat in a controlled growth room at 25°C with optimum light for 16 h daily. To isolate the full-length cDNA of SMP2 and its Arabidopsis homolog SMP1, the following primers were used in reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on polyA+ RNA from Arabidopsis: SMP1 (f) 5′-CGGAATTCATGGCGAAGCCTTTGGGAACA-3′, (r) 5′-CGGGATC CGTGAGACGGAGCAGTCTGTTC-3′; SMP2 (f) 5′-CGGAATTCATGGCGA AACC GTTGGGAACA-3′, (r) 5′-CGGGATCCGTGAGATGGAGCGGGTTG TTTCTGA-3′. These were cloned upstream of YFP between EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites into the mammalian expression vector pLPCX (Clontech) modified as described previously (Abu-Abied et al. CITATION). For expression in plant cells, the YFP fusion was cut with EcoRI and ClaI from the mammalian expression vector and ligated into pART7 downstream of the 35S promoter. NotI cleavage excised the whole expression cassette from pART7, which was then ligated into the binary vector pART27. To create Cherry red fluorescent protein (RFP) fusions (Shaner et al. CITATION), SMP2 was amplified with the following primers in order to create the restriction sites XhoI and EcoRI: (f) 5′-CCGCTCGAG ATGGCGAAACCGTTGGGAACAACC-3′ and (r) 5′-CGGAA TTCGTGAGATGGAGCGGGTTGTTTCTG-3′. The PCR product was ligated to pART7 and later transferred to pART27 by NotI cleavage and ligation. To isolate the 5′-flanking region from the endogenous promoter of SMP2, the following primers were used for PCR on genomic DNA: (f) 5′-ACGCGTCGACGTTTTATCTCGCCT GAGAGAAGAAGAA-3′ and (r) 5′-AACTGCAGTT TCTCCGGTCTTCTTCGATTT TTACG-3′. The genomic fragment was ligated into vector BJ36 between the restriction sites SalI and PstI. The YFP fusion of SMP2 was ligated between EcoRI and ClaI downstream of its own promoter sequence. Deletion mutants were created as follows: the C-terminus was amplified using the primers (f) 5′-GGGGTACC GAACAGATCTATAGCAAACTC-3′ and (r) 5′-CGGGATCCTCAGTGAGAT GGAGCGGGTTG-3′. This fragment was ligated using KpnI and BamHI downstream of green fluorescent protein (GFP) separated by a 10× Ala bridge, into the vector pART7. The N-terminus truncation was created with or without the trans-membrane domain. N-terminus truncation without the trans-membrane domain was created using primers (f) 5′-CCGCTCGAGATGGCGAAACCGTTGGGAA CAACC-3′ and (r) 5′-GCGGATCCGTGTCTCATTTGATTCGA-3′, and truncation with the trans-membrane domain was created using primer (r) 5′-GCGGATCCACC GACGAGGTAAACGCA-3′. These were ligated upstream of GFP using XhoI and BamHI. Plasmids with markers ERD2-GFP and ST-mRFP were provided by Chris Hawes, Oxford Brookes University, and the plasmid with GFP-βATPase was from David Logan, University of St Andrews. GFP peroxisomal marker was from Andreas Nebenfuhr, University of Tennessee (Nelson et al. CITATION) via The Arabidopsis Information Resource. DNA was prepared as follows: two to three fresh mature leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder and dissolved in a mixture containing extraction buffer (350 mM sorbitol, 100 mM Tris, 5 mM ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), pH 7.5), nucleus lysis buffer (200 mM Tris, 50 mM EDTA, 2 M NaCl, 2% cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB)), and 5% N-lauroylsarcosine at a 1:1:0.4 ratio. After 15 min of incubation at 65°C, chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was performed. DNA was precipitated in isopropanol and resuspended in sterile ddH2O. Total RNA was prepared as follows: 2.5 g of plant tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder and incubated for 10 min in 20 ml hot (65°C) CTAB buffer (2% PVP, 2% CTAB, 2 M NaCl, 25 mM EDTA pH 8, 0.1 M Tris pH 8). Chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was performed and RNA was precipitated in 2.5 M LiCl. The pellet was redissolved in SSTE buffer (1 mM EDTA, 10 mM Tris pH 8, 1 M NaCl, 0.5% SDS) and another chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was performed. RNA was precipitated in ethanol and NH4Ac and the pellet was dissolved in sterile ddH2O. PolyA+ RNA was isolated using Qiagen's Oligotex kit according to the manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR was performed using SuperScript reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). An Olympus IX81/FV500 laser-scanning microscope was used to observe fluorescently labeled cells, with the following filter sets: to observe GFP or YFP we used the GFP channel, 488 nm excitation and BA505-525. No additional significant YFP detectable signal was observed when exciting YFP in the YFP channel (515 nm excitation, BA 535-565). To observe RFP, we used 543 nm for excitation and BA610. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence was determined as light with wavelength above 630 nm and given the pseudo-color blue. The objective used was PlanApo 60X1.00 WLSM ∞/0.17. When GFP and RFP were detected in the same sample, we used DM (dichroic mirror) 488/543. In all cases, where more than one color was monitored, sequential acquisition was performed. The fluorescent chimeras were expressed using Agrobacterium infiltration. Briefly, Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GVE3101 was transformed with the plasmid and grown at 28°C for 48 h. Bacterial culture originating from one colony was grown, precipitated, and dissolved to an OD600 of 0.5 in the following buffer: 50 mM MES, pH 5.6, 0.5% glucose, 2 mM Na3PO4, and 100 μM acetosyringone (Sigma Aldrich). Leaves of 3-week-old N. benthamiana plants were infiltrated with the bacterial culture using a 1-ml syringe. Expression of the fluorescent chimera in the leaf cells was detectable after 24 h and peaked at 48 h. Specific anti-SMP antibody was generated against the synthetic peptide RDEWRKHPMLSNQMRH-C, corresponding to a conserved region from SMP1 and SMP2, by Sigma Israel. For western blot analysis, 250 mg of seedlings of transgenic plants or N. benthamiana leaves was ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was boiled in 200 μl Laemmli protein sample buffer (Laemmli CITATION, #220) for 10 min and then centrifuged for 10 min at 14,000 rpm at room temperature. A sample (15–30 μl) of the extract was separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane. GFP fusion proteins were detected with anti-GFP (Roche) anti-actin (clone C4, ICN Biomedicals Inc.) or anti-SMP (Sigma) antibody and secondary HRP-conjugated antibodies (Jackson ImmunoResearch). For chemiluminescent reaction, the SuperSignal kit (Pierce) was used. Tissue was fixed in 2.8% glutaraldehyde and 2% paraformaldehyde for 2 h at room temperature. After several washings, tissue was dehydrated in a graded ethanol series (50%, 70%, 100%, and 90%; 15 min each). Sample infiltration with the resin was performed with a mixture of ethanol and LR white (1:1; Agar Scientific, Cambridge, UK), ethanol and LR white (1:3), and pure LR white for 1 h and then overnight. Polymerization was performed in gelatin capsules fully filled at 50°C for 48 h. Thin sections were prepared with a diamond knife and mounted on nickel grids. In staining, grid-mounted tissue sections of LR white were floated for 30 min on a drop of Tris-buffered saline Tween-20 (TBST) containing 1% bovine serum albumin (blocking buffer) to saturate non-specific binding sites, and then were incubated overnight at 4°C on a drop of rabbit anti-SMP polyclonal antibody diluted at 1:50. Sections were rinsed in TBST and incubated for 1 h at room temperature with gold-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibody (12 nm colloidal gold, Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, Code: 111-205-144). As control sections were incubated in gold-conjugated secondary antibody alone, the grids were then washed thoroughly with TBS, rinsed with distilled water, and air-dried. All sections were routinely stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and examined using a Tecnai G2 Spirit transmission electron microscope (FEI Company, Philips). Gold particles were counted in several area units of 500 nm2 placed in mitochondria, chloroplasts, peroxisomes, or cytoplasm in the EM micrographs and statistical analysis to evaluate the significance of the differences was done by the Scheffe’s multiple comparison test.
