!~ABS~! Discovery of the jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) repressors defined the core jasmonate (JA) signalling module as COI1–JAZ–MYC2, and allowed a full view of the JA signalling pathway from hormone perception to transcriptional reprogramming. JAZ proteins are repressors of MYC2 and targets of SCFCOI1, which is the likely jasmonate receptor. Upon hormone perception, JAZ repressors are degraded by the proteasome releasing MYC2 and allowing the activation of JA responses. All members of the JAZ family share two conserved domains, the Jas motif, required for JAZ interactions with MYC2 and COI1, and the ZIM domain, the function of which is so far unknown. Here, we show that the ZIM domain acts as a protein–protein interaction domain mediating homo- and heteromeric interactions between JAZ proteins. These JAZ–JAZ interactions are independent of the presence of the hormone. The observation that only a few members of the JAZ family form homo- and heteromers may suggest the relevance of these proteins in the regulation of JA signalling. Interestingly, the JAZ3ΔJas protein interacts with several JAZ proteins, providing new clues to understanding the dominant JA insensitivity promoted by truncated JAZΔJas proteins. We also provide evidence that the Jas motif mediates the hormone-dependent interaction between Arabidopsis JAZ3 and COI1, and further confirm that the Jas motif is required and sufficient for Arabidopsis JAZ3–MYC2 interaction. Finally, we show that interaction with MYC2 is a common feature of the JAZ family, as most JAZ proteins can bind MYC2 in pull-down and yeast two-hybrid assays.
!~RES~! It has been previously shown that the hormone-dependent interaction of some JAZ proteins with COI1 involves the Jas motif (CITATION; CITATION). To test if the Jas domain of Arabidopsis JAZ3 protein is responsible for the hormone-dependent interaction with COI1, recombinant JAZ3 and JAZ3 derivatives fused to MBP were used in pull-down (PD) experiments with cell extracts containing COI1-flag (from 35S:COI1-flag transgenic plants) (Figure S1). As shown in Figure 1a, full-length MBP–JAZ3 and MBP–JAZ3ΔZIM proteins, but not MBP–JAZ3ΔJas, were able to pull-down COI1-flag from the extracts in the presence of COR (a hormone agonist), indicating that the Jas motif is required for the hormone-dependent interaction between JAZ3 and COI1. Yeast two-hybrid analysis consistently confirmed these results (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, yeast two-hybrid assays have previously shown that JAZ3 interacts with MYC2, and that this interaction also involves the Jas motif of JAZ3 and the N-terminal half of MYC2 (CITATION; CITATION). To further confirm this interaction, we first obtained transgenic plants expressing a GFP-tagged MYC2 protein (MYC2–GFP) in a myc2 mutant background (jin1-2). Microscope visualization of GFP confirmed that the fusion protein was nuclear and fully functional, complementing the JA insensitivity of jin1-2 (Figure 2a, b). We next performed PD experiments using Arabidopsis cell extracts from the 35S:MYC2–GFP transgenic plants and recombinant MBP–JAZ3 or truncated derivatives lacking either the ZIM domain (MBP–JAZ3ΔZIM) or the Jas motif (MBP–JAZ3ΔJas). As shown in Figure 2c, MYC2–GFP protein was pulled-down by MBP–JAZ3 or MBP–JAZ3ΔZIM, independently of the presence or absence of COR. In contrast, JAZ3ΔJas failed to recover MYC2–GFP protein, confirming that JAZ3 interaction with MYC2 occurs through the Jas motif of JAZ3. To further define a shorter domain in the JAZ proteins required for MYC2 interaction, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays with additional JAZ3 derivatives. As shown in Figure 2d, in addition to JAZ3 and JAZ3ΔZIM proteins (previously shown to interact with MYC2; CITATION), the Jas motif alone (Jas) was sufficient for interaction with MYC2. Interestingly, however, this protein derivative (Jas) did not interact with COI1, suggesting that the interaction domain may be larger. Moreover, interaction with COI1 is hormone dependent, and the interaction with MYC2 is hormone independent. Therefore, the interaction of JAZ3 with both COI1 and MYC2 occurs through the same domain in JAZ3, the Jas motif, but via partially different regions, and with a different requirement of the hormone. [[FIGURE]] In addition to JAZ3, JAZ1 and JAZ9 have recently been shown to interact with MYC2 in yeast two-hybrid assays (CITATION). In order to test whether interaction with MYC2 is a general feature of the JAZ repressors, we assess the capacity of MYC2 to interact with all members of the Arabidopsis JAZ family using PD and yeast two-hybrid experiments. As shown in Figure 3a, MYC2–GFP was recovered by all MBP–JAZ proteins, except for JAZ7, in PD experiments. The interaction was strong in the case of JAZ1, JAZ2, JAZ3, JAZ5, JAZ9, JAZ10 and JAZ11, and was weak in the case of JAZ4, JAZ6, JAZ8 and JAZ12. Consistently, most JAZ proteins, with the exceptions of JAZ4 and JAZ7, interacted with MYC2 in yeast two-hybrid assays, also with different affinities (Figure 3b). We conclude that most JAZ proteins can interact with MYC2. [[FIGURE]] As bHLH proteins act as dimmers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we reasoned that an MYC2 repressor such as JAZ3 could also function as a dimmer. Supporting this hypothesis, yeast two-hybrid screening for the interactors of JAZ2 rendered a JAZ2 derivative missing the N-terminal 33 amino acids (data not shown). To further test this hypothesis we checked JAZ3 self-interaction by PD and yeast two-hybrid experiments. As shown in Figure 4a, PD assays using plant extracts expressing JAZ3–GFP and recombinant MBP–JAZ3 revealed that this protein can form homomers independently of the presence of the hormone (Figure 4a, b). To identify the domain responsible for dimerization, we used JAZ3 derivatives in PD experiments, defining the ZIM domain as the motif necessary and sufficient for homomeric interactions (Figure 4c). Yeast two-hybrid assays further confirmed these results (Figures 4d and S2), leading us to conclude that the ZIM domain in JAZ3 is responsible for its homomeric interaction. [[FIGURE]] We next tested homomeric interactions among all JAZ proteins in two-hybrid assays. As shown in Figure 5, the homomerization of full-length proteins was only observed for JAZ1, JAZ3, JAZ4 and JAZ9, suggesting that not all JAZ proteins can form homodimers. These assays were carried out simultaneously with those described in Figure 3b, where most of these constructs produced a positive interaction with MYC2, therefore supporting that all JAZ proteins are being properly expressed and are functional in yeast (also see Figure S3 for protein expression). [[FIGURE]] We also checked the possibility that JAZ proteins could form heteromers by testing all 144 possible combinations between the 12 JAZ repressors in yeast two-hybrid assays. As shown in Figure 6a, the same proteins that produced homomeric interactions (JAZ1, JAZ3, JAZ4 and JAZ9) also rendered heteromeric interactions. Thus, JAZ3, JAZ4 and JAZ9 produced the corresponding heteromers in reciprocal transformations (i.e. with the construct either as prey or as bait; Figures 4, S3 and S4). Interactions between JAZ1 and JAZ8 were also observed in reciprocal transformations, whereas interactions between JAZ1 and JAZ4 or JAZ9 were only observed with JAZ1 as the bait (Figures 6a and S5). All other combinations tested between JAZ proteins failed to establish heterodimers; however, these data in yeast do not preclude the scenario that additional JAZ proteins could heteromerize in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To assess if the ZIM domain is also responsible for heteromerization, we tested the interaction between each JAZ protein and JAZ3ΔJas. Interestingly, in addition to the interactions promoted by the full-length JAZ3, the truncated derivative also rendered a strong interaction with JAZ1 (Figure 7a, b). These results indicate that heteromeric interactions also involve the ZIM domain. Although the interactions between JAZ1 and JAZ3ΔJas were only observed with JAZ1 as the bait, these data also suggest that the lack of the Jas motif could broaden the range of JAZ partners interacting with a particular JAZΔJas, compared with the corresponding full-length JAZ protein. [[FIGURE]] Additional evidence of heteromeric interactions, and of the involvement of the ZIM domain, was obtained by testing the interaction of all 12 MBP–JAZ fusion proteins with JAZ3ΔJas–GFP in PD experiments using cell extracts from JAZ3ΔJas–GFP transgenic plants (Figure 7c). Consistent with the yeast two-hybrid results, JAZ1, JAZ3, JAZ4 and JAZ9 were the proteins that most strongly pulled-down JAZ3ΔJas–GFP from the extracts. JAZ2, JAZ5, JAZ6 and JAZ10 only showed a weak interaction with JAZ3ΔJas–GFP, and no interaction over the background was observed for JAZ7, JAZ8, JAZ11 and JAZ12. These results further support the existence of heteromeric interactions among JAZ proteins involving the ZIM domain. To demonstrate that interactions among JAZ proteins can also occur in vivo, we checked homo- and heteromeric interactions by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), and by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays. As shown in Figure 8a, fusion proteins of JAZ3ΔJas to the N-terminal and C-terminal halves of YFP (JAZ3ΔJas-NY and CY-JAZ3ΔJas, respectively) complemented the YFP, and produced fluorescent nuclei at the YFP wavelength (also see Figure S6). Moreover, JAZ3ΔJas-GFP and JAZ9-GFP, transiently expressed proteins in Nicotiana benthamiana, could be detected after co-IP experiments of JAZ9-HA using the α-HA matrix (Figure 8b). These results indicate that both homomeric and heteromeric interactions can occur in planta, and further support that ZIM mediates dimerization between JAZ proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 is the genetic background of wild-type and transgenic lines used throughout the work. Plant growth conditions in vitro (in Johnson’s media) were as previously described (CITATION). The generation of transgenic lines overexpressing JAZ3–GFP and JAZ3ΔJas–GFP are described in CITATION. To generate transgenic plants expressing MYC2–GFP in the jin1-2 background the full-length MYC2 coding sequence was amplified with high-fidelity Taq-polimerase (Roche, http://www.roche.com), using Gateway-compatible primers (see Table S1 for primers sequences). PCR products were cloned into pDONR207 with a Gateway BP II kit (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) and sequenced. A Gateway LR II kit (Invitrogen) and the destination vector pGWB5 (CITATION) was used to generate the 35S:MYC2–GFP construct, which was then transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 carrying the pGV2260 by heat shock, and Arabidopsis jin1-2 plants were then transformed by floral dipping (CITATION). GFP was visualized by fluorescence microscopy using DMR and confocal microscopes (Leica, http://www.leica.com). Photographs of cells expressing the GFP were taken as previously described (CITATION). Transgenic plants expressing COI1-flag in Col-0 (kindly provided by the laboratory of X.-W. Deng; CITATION) and wild-type plants were grown in the same conditions, collected after 12 days, immediately frozen, and were then used for pull-down assays. Coding sequences for full-length JAZ proteins and for truncated versions of JAZ3 were PCR amplified from plasmid templates provided by TAIR (Table S2) or cDNA, maintaining both the frame and the stop codons (see Table S1 for primer sequences). Using the Gateway system (Invitrogen), these amplicons were cloned into pDONR201/pDONR207 and recombined in pDEST-TH1 (CITATION) to obtain N-terminal MBP-fusions. All constructs were verified by sequencing prior to protein expression. Recombinant MBP-fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 cells, and were then purified in amylose resin columns (New England Biolabs, http://www.neb.com), following the method described by CITATION. Protein purity was assessed by Coomassie gel staining, and quantification was performed in gels by comparison with known concentrations of BSA. Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type seedlings, lines expressing 35S:COI1-flag (CITATION), 35S:JAI3-GFP or 35S:JAI3ΔJas-GFP (CITATION), and jin1-2 plants expressing 35S:MYC2-GFP were ground in liquid nitrogen and homogenized in extraction buffer containing 50 mm TrisHCl, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween-20, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride (PMSF), complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) and 50 μm MG132 (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com). After two rounds of 15 min of centrifugation at 16 000 g, at 4°C, the supernatant was collected and the total protein quantified by the Bradford method. For pull-down experiments, 6 μg of resin-bound MBP fusion protein was added to 1.8 mg of total protein extract, and, when indicated, supplemented with coronatine (COR) (Sigma-Aldrich), and then incubated for 1 h at 4°C under rotation. Samples were resuspended in 30 μL of extraction buffer and supplemented with 2 mm CaCl2 and 1 μL factor Xa (New England Biolabs), to digest MBP-fused proteins (3 h at room temperature (23°C), RT), so as to facilitate COI1-flag detection. Samples were boiled with loading buffer and run on 8% SDS–PAGE gels. Proteins were transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membranes and incubated with monoclonal anti-FLAG antibody (Sigma-Aldrich), or were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and incubated with anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (Roche). A 3-μl aliquot was taken from each sample to check the quantity of MBP-fused protein used in each PD sample. These samples were loaded into SDS–PAGE gels and stained with Coomassie. JAZ3ΔJas and JAZ9 proteins were fused to a GFP tag by cloning in the pGWB5 vector, and JAZ7 and JAZ9 were fused to an HA tag by cloning in pGWB14 (CITATION). Empty pGWB vectors were used for the expression of GFP, and HA proteins were used as the controls. N. benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with Agrobacterium harbouring these constructs, and were collected after 2 days. For each sample, 0.6 g of agroinfiltrated leaves were homogenized in 2 mL of co-IP buffer containing 50 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 2 mm DTT, 0.1% Tween-20, 1 mm PMSF, 50 μm MG132 and complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche), and were centrifuged twice at 16 000 g at 4°C. The supernatant was incubated for 2 h (4°C, with rotation) with the anti-HA affinity matrix (Roche), and was washed three times with 1 mL of IP buffer. After denaturalization in Laemmli SDS–PAGE loading buffer, samples were loaded into 10 or 12% SDS–PAGE gels, transferred to PVDF membranes (Millipore, http://www.millipore.com) and incubated with anti-HA-HR-peroxidase (Roche) and anti-GFP-HRP antibodies (Miltenyi Biotec, http://www.miltenyibiotec.com). A 15-μL aliquot of total protein extract was also used for immunoblot with the same antibodies to evaluate the expression of recombinant proteins in each sample. Truncated versions of JAZ3 were PCR amplified, with or without the stop codon, as previously described (CITATION). Using the Gateway system (Invitrogen), these amplicons were cloned into pDONR201 and subsequently to the destination vector series pBiCF (CITATION). The four resulting plasmids (pBiFC1–JAZ3ΔJas = JAZ3ΔJas–NYFP; pBiFC2–JAZ3ΔJas = NYFP–JAZ3ΔJas; pBiFC3–JAZ3ΔJas = CYFP–JAZ3ΔJas; pBiFC4–JAZ3ΔJas = JAZ3ΔJas–CYFP) were transformed in A. tumefaciens. The four possible combinations of CYFP and NYFP JAZ3ΔJas constructs were employed to infect N. benthamiana plants, as previously described (CITATION). Leaves of infected plants were analysed under a TCS SP5 Leica Microsystems confocal laser microscope. 4′,6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) solution was injected into plant leaves 2 min before imaging. DAPI and YFP fluorescence were analysed at the same time via excitation at a wavelength of 504 and 514 nm, respectively, and emission scanning at a wavelength between 418 and 479 nm (DAPI) and between 520 and 615 nm (YFP). The pDONR constructs described above were used in Gateway LR (Invitrogen) reactions, in combination with the destination vector pGADT7gateway (Gal4 activation domain, AD) and pGBKT7gateway (Gal4 DNA binding domain, BD), in which the gateway cassette was cloned within the EcoRI and NdeI restriction sites, to generate all vectors described in the text. All these constructs were checked by sequencing. All JAZ cDNA and MYC2 in pDNOR were also cloned in the destination low-copy yeast expression vector pDEST22 (Gal4 AD) and pDEST32 (Gal4 BD), and were then checked by sequencing. To assess protein interactions, the corresponding plasmids were co-transformed into Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH 109 cells following standard heat-shock protocols (CITATION). Successfully transformed colonies were identified on yeast synthetic drop-out lacking Leu and Trp. At 3 days after transformation, yeast colonies were grown in selective lacking Leu and Trp (–2) liquid media for 6 or 7 h, and the cell density was adjusted to 3 × 107 cells mL−1 (OD600 = 1). A 4-μl sample of the cell suspensions was plated out on yeast synthetic drop-out lacking Ade, His, Leu and Trp to test protein interaction (supplemented with 30 μm COR, where indicated). Plates were incubated at 28°C for 2–4 days. The empty vector pGADT7gateway was also co-transformed with pGBKT7 constructs as a negative control. The expression of recombinant proteins in yeast was assessed by western blot. Total yeast proteins were purified by growing yeast colonies in 10 mL of selective –2 liquid media until reaching a cell density of 2 × 107 cells mL−1 (OD600 = 0.7). Yeast cells were disrupted by FastPrep extraction (at a speed of 5.5 meters for 30 sec) in extraction buffer containing 125 mm Tris–HCl, pH 6.8, 4% SDS, 22% glycerol, 0.005% bromophenol blue, 140 mmβ-mercaptoethanol and complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Samples were boiled and run on 10% SDS–PAGE gels. Proteins were transferred onto PVDF membranes and incubated with anti-HA-peroxidase (Roche), following the manufacturer’s instructions, or anti-MYC-peroxidase (Boehringer Mannheim, now part of Roche) antibody to test the protein expressions of constructs expressed by the pGADT7 and pGBKT7 plasmid, respectively. The β-galactosidase activity in yeast was measured with liquid cultures, as described by the manufacturer (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com), using o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside (ONPG) as a substrate. Sequence analyses and phylogenetic trees were carried out as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, alignments of protein sequences were generated using DiAlign (Genomatix, http://www.genomatix.de) and ClustalW (EBI, http://www.ebi.ac.uk). The phenogram representation of the neighbour-joining tree of the JAZ family was created by ClustalW [1.75 (http://sci.cnb.uam.es/Services/MolBio/clustalw)].
