!~ABS~! Peroxisomes are metabolically diverse organelles with essential roles in plant development. The major protein constituents of plant peroxisomes are well characterized, whereas only a few low-abundance and regulatory proteins have been reported to date. We performed an in-depth proteome analysis of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaf peroxisomes using one-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. We detected 65 established plant peroxisomal proteins, 30 proteins whose association with Arabidopsis peroxisomes had been previously demonstrated only by proteomic data, and 55 putative novel proteins of peroxisomes. We subsequently tested the subcellular targeting of yellow fluorescent protein fusions for selected proteins and confirmed the peroxisomal localization for 12 proteins containing predicted peroxisome targeting signals type 1 or 2 (PTS1/2), three proteins carrying PTS-related peptides, and four proteins that lack conventional targeting signals. We thereby established the tripeptides SLM> and SKV> (where > indicates the stop codon) as new PTS1s and the nonapeptide RVx5HF as a putative new PTS2. The 19 peroxisomal proteins conclusively identified from this study potentially carry out novel metabolic and regulatory functions of peroxisomes. Thus, this study represents an important step toward defining the complete plant peroxisomal proteome.
!~RES~! We isolated peroxisomes from 4-week-old Arabidopsis leaves using a previously established method (CITATION). To gain deeper insights into peroxisomal functions and identify low-abundance proteins, we used immunoblotting and silver-stained protein gel analysis to assess the purity of isolated leaf peroxisomes, followed by a 1-DE-liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) strategy for protein identification. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are known to partially copurify with leaf peroxisomes. The detection of plastidic proteins by available polyclonal antisera (e.g. those against the inner envelope membrane protein Tic110 and the stromal chaperone ClpC) was below detection limits when analytical protein quantities (5 μg) were used (data not shown). Mitochondrial contamination, however, could be detected by immunoblotting using a monoclonal antiserum against the 30-kD voltage-dependent anion-selective channel (VDAC) protein from maize (Zea mays; Fig. 1A ). In addition, the intensity of the Arabidopsis VDAC band correlated with the abundance of a 110-kD protein band on silver-stained analytical SDS gels among different peroxisome isolates. The size of the protein indicated its identity as the P-subunit of the mitochondrial Gly decarboxylase, a major protein of leaf mitochondria (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Table S1). Using both immunoblotting and silver staining of protein gels as selection criteria, we identified three of approximately 30 preparations as leaf peroxisome isolates of highest purity and pooled these samples for subsequent proteome analysis. To increase the chance of discovering low-abundance proteins in the sample, we separated a large amount of peroxisomal proteins (500 μg) on a 1-D gel and cut the gel lane into 16 slices after electrophoresis (Fig. 1C). Proteins in each gel slice were in-gel digested by trypsin; the resulting peptide mixtures were subjected to LC-electrospray ionization-MS/MS. Proteins were judged to be present in the sample if they had a 95% probability of being correctly identified, as assigned by ProteinProphet (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We identified 302 proteins, among which 280 had at least two matching peptides and 285 were detected by ≥99% probability (Table I ; Supplemental Tables S1–S3). Sixty-five proteins are referred to in this study as established peroxisomal proteins, because they have been functionally characterized from at least one plant species. Except for seven proteins (ACX6, DEG15 protease, malate synthase, isocitrate lyase, polyamine oxidase 4, Hsp15.7, and sarcosine oxidase), we identified most matrix proteins that had been functionally characterized in plant peroxisomes (Supplemental Table S2). The 89% coverage (57 of 64 proteins) of established peroxisomal matrix proteins in this study is quite high compared with previous proteome analyses of plant peroxisomes. The coverage of membrane proteins in this study was also improved over a former study of leaf peroxisomes (CITATION). For example, all five members of the plant PEX11 family (PEX11a–PEX11e) of peroxisome proliferation promoters, the peroxisome biogenesis factor PEX14, two known metabolite transporters, PMP36 and PXA1, and MDAR4 (for monodehydroascorbate reductase isoform 4) were identified. Four of these 65 established peroxisomal proteins (ACX2, 4CLP2, PEX11b, and MDAR4; Supplemental Table S2) were identified for the first time in a proteomic study of plant peroxisomes. Putative novel proteins of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes identified by 1-D LC-MS/MS and classified into functional groups Listed are 85 proteins, among which 30 had also been independently identified by previous proteome analyses (indicated in the Proteome Evidence column) but had not been confirmed to be peroxisomal by alternative methods. Functional categories 1 to 6 refer to β-oxidation (auxiliary), ROS metabolism, other metabolic enzymes, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism, chaperones and proteases, and other proteins, respectively. PTSs in parentheses, such as (SRF>) for At5g02240, indicate PTS-related peptides; SKV> in At4g16566.1 and SLM> in At5g65400.1 were later proven to be functional PTS1s in this study. Detailed biophysical and MS data on all these proteins are provided in Supplemental Table S3. Reu07, CITATION; Eub08, CITATION; Fukao03, CITATION; chpt, chloroplast; cyt, cytosol; nuc, nucleus; perox, peroxisome; pm, plasma membrane; n.d., not determined. We also identified 30 additional proteins whose peroxisomal association had been demonstrated previously only by proteome data and remained to be verified by an independent line of evidence (Table I; Supplemental Table S3). Twenty-two of these proteins had first been identified by CITATION, which included, for instance, nearly all of those with a proven or predicted role in pathogen and herbivore defense (e.g. BGL1, TGG1 and TGG2, and MIF; Table I), further supporting their putative peroxisomal associations. Eleven additional proteins first associated with peroxisomes by CITATION were already confirmed to be peroxisomal by a subcellular targeting study of YFP fusion proteins (CITATION) and are now listed in the group of established plant peroxisomal proteins (Supplemental Table S2). Eight of the 30 proteins were independently identified by CITATION; ZnDH, AAE1, MCD, IndA, CuAO, AAE17, and PM-16) or CITATION; sT3). Protein levels within a subcellular compartment can span a wide dynamic range. To compare the abundance of proteins discovered from our shotgun proteomic experiment, we calculated normalized spectral abundance factors (NSAFs; i.e. spectral counts that were normalized after taking into consideration protein size and variation between sample runs; CITATION). Specifically, a spectral abundance factor (SAF) for each protein was first determined by dividing the spectral counts (i.e. the number of times a particular peptide from a given protein is sampled) of peptides assigned to this protein by the protein length. Then, each SAF was divided by the sum of SAFs from all proteins in the sample to generate the NSAF value (CITATION). In this study, all of those proteins detected by high NSAF values between 0.02 and 0.10 are established peroxisomal proteins, reflecting the predominance of photorespiratory and reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism-related enzymes in leaf peroxisomes (Fig. 2A ; Supplemental Table S2). On average, the established peroxisomal proteins were identified by relatively high NSAF values (12 × 10−3), whereas NSAF values for proteins that had been assigned to peroxisomes only by proteome data were about 7-fold lower (1.6 × 10−3; Fig. 2, A and B). These data suggest that previous proteome studies allowed the identification of proteins whose abundance is 1 order of magnitude lower than that of most matrix enzymes identified by biochemical and genetic methods. However, given that we only performed a single proteomic experiment and that some limitations are associated with this quantification method (see “Discussion”), the NSAF-based data presented here only serve as a semiquantitative and tentative indication of protein abundance. [[FIGURE]] In addition to the 95 peroxisomal proteins mentioned above, the higher sensitivity of our approach allowed the identification of a significant number of putative novel peroxisomal proteins. However, this achievement was inevitably accompanied by an increased identification rate of proteins from chloroplasts and mitochondria (Fig. 2, A and B), thus making the annotation of putative novel proteins of leaf peroxisomes more difficult. To differentiate between nonperoxisomal and putative novel peroxisomal proteins, we took advantage of the large number of organellar proteome studies published for Arabidopsis mitochondria and chloroplasts, summarized in the Arabidopsis Subcellular Proteomic Database (www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/applications/suba2/; CITATION). We classified proteins rather stringently as nonperoxisomal contaminants (Supplemental Table S1) if they were identified from at least two organelle-specific proteome studies (for mitochondria and chloroplasts) or are known to be major constituents of other compartments (ER, cytosol, vacuole, or nucleus) or proteasomes. The quantity (percentage) of chloroplastic and mitochondrial proteins, based on their NSAF values, was 7.1% and 2.9%, respectively. Eukaryotic ribosomal proteins and a few ER proteins represented 3.1% and 0.6%, respectively, of the total NSAF values (Fig. 2, A and B), likely reflecting the association in biogenesis between peroxisomes and the rough ER. We also detected a few of the most abundant proteins from other subcellular compartments, including five cytosolic, three vacuolar, one nuclear, and three from proteasomes (Fig. 2, A and B; Supplemental Table S1). Based on the above analyses, we concluded that 55 proteins have a strong probability for peroxisomal localization; thus, we referred to these proteins as putative novel proteins of leaf peroxisomes (Table I; Supplemental Table S3). Since the prediction of protein targeting to peroxisomes is not available at The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR), most of these proteins were tentatively annotated as being cytosolic by TAIR for lacking identifiable organelle targeting signals. In contrast to the highly to moderately abundant proteins identified previously in leaf peroxisomes (see above), most putative novel proteins of plant peroxisomes detected for the first time in this study are of low abundance, with an average NSAF value of 0.77 × 10−3 (Fig. 2A). Forty-eight of these 55 proteins were identified with high confidence (≥99% probability), and 46 had at least two matching peptides for each protein. To verify the reliability of protein identification below the high-confidence threshold, five of nine proteins identified by one matching peptide and/or 95% ≤ x ≤ 98% probability (At5g02240, At5g47210, GRF9, ATF2, and B12D1; Table I; Supplemental Table S3; see below) were also chosen and subjected to subsequent in vivo targeting analysis. Nine of the putative novel proteins carry predicted plant PTS peptides defined previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), seven contain PTS1/2-related sequences such as STL>, SLL>, SQV>, SLM>, and RVx5HF, and 39 lack recognizable PTSs (Table I). Based on annotation, sequence homology, and predicted function, we classified the putative novel proteins into several categories: β-oxidation (auxiliary enzymes), ROS metabolism (including glutathione metabolism and defense), other metabolic enzymes, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism, chaperones and proteases, and other proteins such as those with unknown functions (Table I). A major functional group is composed of seven proteins with predicted auxiliary functions in fatty acid β-oxidation, four of which carry predicted PTS1s (Table I). Our study identified two additional members of the functionally uncharacterized family of small thioesterases (sTs). The predicted PTS1 (AKL>) for sT1 was previously shown to be highly conserved in homologous genomic sequences and plant ESTs (CITATION, CITATION). Homologs of sT5, hydroxyacid oxidase isoform 1 (HAOX1), and esterase/lipase/thioesterase family isoform 1 (ELT1) in all or some of the plant lineages examined carry well-known major or minor PTS1 tripeptides, or PTS1-related sequences, such as CRM> and SLL> (Fig. 3, A–C ), supporting the localization of these proteins in peroxisomes and indicating the conserved function for these proteins in peroxisomal metabolism across a wide range of plant species. [[FIGURE]] Enzymes with annotated functions related to ROS metabolism include four glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) that belong to the U and F subfamilies (GSTU19 and GSTU20, and GSTF7 and GSTF10). Dehydroascorbate reductase 1 (DHAR1) is probably the last missing protein of the peroxisomal ascorbate glutathione cycle (CITATION), catalyzed by four matrix-targeted or membrane-associated enzymes (i.e. APX3, MDAR1/4, glutathione reductase, and DHAR). Peroxisomal DHAR had been characterized biochemically in pea (Pisum sativum) peroxisomes (CITATION), but the corresponding cDNA had not been cloned from any plant species. Additional metabolic enzymes that are not obviously β-oxidation related include a thiol methyltransferase (At2g43940), a dephospho-CoA kinase homolog (COAE), UDP-Xyl synthase 6 (UXS6), nucleoside-diphosphate kinase type 1 (NDPK1), a catalytic/coenzyme-binding protein (At5g02240), and a quinone reductase (FQR1); three of these six proteins carry C-terminal PTS1-related tripeptides: STA> (FQR1; At5g54500), STL> (At2g43940), and SRF> (At5g02240). In fulfillment of our intention to identify regulatory proteins, more than 20 of the putative novel proteins can be categorized as nonmetabolic proteins that most likely have regulatory roles in metabolism, signal transduction, or protein processing. Three proteins are likely involved in protein/peptide processing or turnover. Lon protease homolog 2 (Lon2) is orthologous to proteases from mammalian and yeast peroxisomes (CITATION; CITATION) and carries a conserved PTS1 (Fig. 3D). The Ser-type endopeptidase (At2g47390) has been detected in recent plastidic proteome studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, we classified this protein as a putative dual-targeted novel protein of peroxisomes due to its C-terminal PTS1-related peptide, SLL>, and the accumulation of upstream basic residues (KLRRSLL>). We also detected specific homologs of Arabidopsis chaperone families, including members of the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and HSP90 families, and three cyclophilin (CYP) homologs. The copper homeostasis factor (CCH) is a putative copper chaperone with the C-terminal PTS1-related tripeptide SQV>. In the category of nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism, we uncovered two isoforms of the Gly-rich RNA-binding family of proteins (GRPs) that added to the two GRPs previously identified by CITATION, an RNA- and export factor-binding protein and a putative nuclear RNA-binding protein. In addition to the previously identified nucleotide-binding protein NBP (At4g16566; CITATION), which is now annotated as a member of the His triad protein (HIT) family (NBP/HIT1; Table I), two additional HIT family members (HIT2 and HIT3) were identified from this study. HIT2 carries a predicted and conserved PTS2 nonapeptide (RLx5HL; Fig. 3E), and HIT3 contains an N-terminal PTS2-like nonapeptide that is also conserved among its homologs in other plant species (RVx5HF; Fig. 3F). HIT proteins constitute a superfamily of nucleotide-binding and -hydrolyzing enzymes (CITATION). Arabidopsis contains five HIT domain-containing proteins, none of which has been functionally characterized. Additional proteins with predicted regulatory functions include an acid phosphatase class B homolog, four isoforms of the 14-3-3 protein family of phosphorylated protein-binding factors (general regulatory factors), two thioredoxin homologs (TRX-H-3/5), two GTP-binding proteins, and a second homolog of the peroxisomal acetyl transferase (ATF2). Furthermore, a gibberellin-responsive GAST1 protein homolog, a cold-regulated protein, a putative cytochrome b5 homolog, and a senescence-associated protein (B12D1) were also assigned to this group. Homologs of actin and tubulin were also detected but were not associated with specific gene models, due to high sequence identity among the paralogs. Lastly, a few proteins lacking functional annotations are referred to as unknown proteins (UPs), among which three proteins carry predicted PTSs (UP5 [SRL>] and UP6 [SKL>]) or PTS1-related tripeptides (UP7 [SLM>]). Contrary to PTS1 conservation in UP5 and UP6 homologs across diverse plant families, peroxisome targeting of UP7 may be restricted to the Brassicaceae (Fig. 3, G–I). To validate peroxisomal targeting of the putative novel proteins identified in this proteome analysis, we tested the subcellular localization of a subset of these proteins utilizing in vivo targeting analysis of YFP fusions. During the course of this work, HAOX1 and Lon2 were independently confirmed by alternative methods to be peroxisome targeted (C. Mayer and S. Reumann, unpublished data; T. Johnson and L.J. Olsen, unpublished data; Table II ) and therefore were excluded from further analysis. We divided the proteins into three categories based on the detection of predicted PTSs, PTS-related peptides, or no recognizable PTSs in these proteins and focused on representatives from each category. Subcellular targeting results for selected proteins identified from this proteomic study chpt, Chloroplast; cyt, cytosol; perox, peroxisome; nuc, nucleus; pm, plasma membrane; TMs, transmembrane domains. Numbers in parentheses (on the scale of 0 to 1) are probabilities for the prediction of respective transmembrane domains by the plant membrane protein database Aramemnon (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/); values greater than 0.7 were considered to be positive. The first group contained all seven putative novel proteins with predicted PTS1/2 (sT1, sT5, ELT1, ATF2, HIT2, UP5, and UP6; Table I), as well as eight PTS-containing proteins also identified independently by CITATION; AAE1, AAE17, MCD, ZnDH, CuAO, IndA, and P-M16) or CITATION; sT3) but whose peroxisomal localization had not been verified by alternative means (Table I). In fact, these eight proteins are also highly likely to be peroxisomal, because their homologs in some or all other plant species contain PTS or PTS-related sequences (see CITATION, for sT3; see Supplemental Fig. S1 for the other seven). The second group included four putative novel proteins with C-terminal PTS1-related sequences or N-terminal PTS2-related sequences, namely, the putative copper chaperone CCH (SQV>), a putative coenzyme-binding protein (At5g02240; SRF>), UP7 (SLM>), and HIT3 (RVx5HF). We also added to this group HIT1/NBP (SKV>), another His triad family protein besides HIT2 and HIT3, because this protein had been identified previously through proteomics (CITATION) but had not been confirmed for its peroxisomal localization by alternative methods. The third group consisted of 16 putative novel proteins lacking predicted PTSs (Table II), most of which have annotated functions not associated with peroxisomes previously. For medium-throughput cloning of candidate genes, we first created two Gateway-compatible destination vectors for fusion of the coding regions of candidate cDNAs to the N terminus (for PTS2-containing proteins) or the C terminus (for PTS1-containing proteins) of the enhanced YFP and for driving gene expression by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Genes encoding proteins without predicted PTSs were cloned into both vectors or first into the vector for PTS2-containing proteins, because PTS2-related sequences are more difficult to detect than PTS1-like sequences. We were unable to clone AAE17, P-M16, and UP6 into destination vectors. As a result, YFP fusions for 33 genes (Table II) were transiently coexpressed with the peroxisomal marker gene CFP-PTS1 in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves. Subcellular protein targeting was analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) 2 to 3 d after Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated infiltration of the constructs. All 12 proteins with predicted PTS1 or PTS2 peptides were verified to be targeted to peroxisomes, largely with one-on-one colocalization between their YFP fusions and the CFP-PTS1 peroxisome marker (Fig. 4 ). Notably, seven of these proteins (AAE1, ELT1, MCD, sT1, sT3, sT5, and ZnDH) have annotated functions in lipid metabolism (Table II). [[FIGURE]] Peroxisomal targeting for three of the five proteins with PTS-relative peptides was also confirmed. Of the four proteins with PTS1-related sequences, HIT1/NBP (SKV>) and UP7 (SLM>) localized to peroxisomes (Fig. 5, A and D ), whereas CCH (SQV>) and At5g02240 (SRF>) were found to localize to the cytosol and nucleus, respectively (Table II). Peroxisome targeting of HIT1/NBP and UP7 suggested that SKV> and SLM> may be new PTS1 tripeptides. To further test this hypothesis, we analyzed the localization of two fusion proteins lacking the respective tripeptides. As expected, the truncated proteins failed to target to peroxisomes (Fig. 5, B and E). We also examined the subcellular localization of YFP with SKV> or SLM> fused to its C terminus (YFP-SKV or YFP-SLM) and observed strong colocalization of the respective fusion proteins with CFP-PTS1; in both cases, targeting to the nucleus and cytosol was also observed (Fig. 5, C and F). Besides UP7 and HIT1, the Arabidopsis genome contains 10 more proteins terminating with SLM> and 13 additional proteins containing C-terminal SKV>; these proteins thereby emerge as putative peroxisomal matrix proteins (Supplemental Table S4). Collectively, our results identified both SKV> and SLM> as new PTS1 tripeptides and suggested that some Arabidopsis proteins containing these two tripeptides may potentially target to the peroxisome as well. [[FIGURE]] HIT3, which has a PTS2-related nonapeptide (RVx5HF) in its N-terminal domain, targeted to spherical structures labeled by CFP-PTS1 (Fig. 6A ). Interestingly, this protein seems to be dual targeted, as reticulate structures mostly surrounding the chloroplasts were also labeled by yellow fluorescence (Fig. 6B). Thus far, three of the five Arabidopsis HIT proteins have been found to be associated with peroxisomes, revealing the unique involvement of this class of nucleotide hydroxylases/transferases in plant peroxisome functions. [[FIGURE]] We also tested the localization of 16 proteins that lack recognizable PTSs. Consistent with its predicted involvement in the peroxisomal ascorbate glutathione cycle, DHAR1 localized strongly to peroxisomes (Fig. 7A ). COAE localized to the periphery of peroxisomes, suggesting its possible association with the membrane of these organelles (Fig. 7B). B12D1, a senescence-associated small protein of 88 amino acids, targeted to peroxisomes and led to peroxisome aggregation (Fig. 7C). This peroxisomal phenotype indicates that B12D1 may have a role in peroxisome distribution; alternatively, the phenotype may represent a dominant negative effect caused by attaching the 27-kD YFP to a small protein. Finally, NDPK1 was highly enriched in peroxisomes, paralleled by its weak targeting to the nucleus and cytosol (Fig. 7D). These results collectively demonstrated that an increasing number of peroxisomal proteins lacking predicted or closely related PTS1/2 tripeptides are being identified. These proteins may be either surface associated with or imported into peroxisomes via alternative yet unknown import mechanisms. However, peroxisome targeting of the remaining 12 proteins lacking obvious PTS-related sequences was not supported by our transient expression assays, as they were found to be associated with the nucleus, plasma membrane, or cytosol (Table II). These data suggest that (1) some proteins from this group could be contaminants from other compartments and (2) our transient expression system may have limitations in validating some of the true peroxisomal proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were grown for 4 to 6 weeks in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle under 100 to 150 μE m−2 s−1 light. Rosette leaves were harvested and leaf peroxisomes isolated as described previously (CITATION). Protein concentration was determined as described before (CITATION) using bovine serum albumin as a standard. Proteins were precipitated by chloroform/methanol (CITATION) and separated on minigels. For immunoblotting, we transferred proteins in a semidry system according to standard procedures. Arabidopsis VDAC was detected by a monoclonal antiserum against the maize (Zea mays) VDAC (provided by Thomas Elthon, University of Nebraska), followed by anti-mouse IgGs coupled to horseradish peroxidase, and was visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence. Silver staining of proteins was performed according to CITATION. Based on anti-VDAC cross-reactivity, silver-staining intensity of the 110-kD P-protein band, and total protein visible by SDS-PAGE, leaf peroxisome isolates were classified into three categories: high, moderate, and low purity. Selected leaf peroxisome isolates of high purity were used as internal standards on all subsequent minigels. The proteins of highly pure Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes (500 μg) were precipitated (CITATION), dissolved in 80 μL of sample buffer, and loaded onto a single lane of a minigel for electrophoresis. After the protein front ran approximately 5 cm onto the resolving gel, the gel was faintly stained by Coomassie Brilliant Blue and cut into 16 slices, each of which was later digested by trypsin (CITATION). The extracted peptides were automatically injected by a Waters nanoAcquity Sample Manager (www.waters.com) and loaded for 5 min onto a Waters Symmetry C18 peptide trap (5 μm, 180 μm × 20 mm) at 4 μL min−1 in 2% acetonitrile/0.1% formic acid. The bound peptides were then eluted onto a Waters BEH C18 nanoAcquity column (1.7 μm, 100 μm × 100 mm) and eluted over 120 min with a gradient of 5% B to 90% B in 103 min using a Waters nanoAcquity UPLC system (buffer A = 99.9% water/0.1% formic acid, buffer B = 99.9% acetonitrile/0.1% formic acid) into a ThermoFisher LTQ-FTICR mass spectrometer (www.thermo.com) at a flow rate of 300 nL min−1. Survey scans were taken in the Fourier transformation at 25,000 resolution at a mass-to-charge ratio of 400, and the top 10 ions in each survey scan were then subjected to automatic low-energy collision-induced dissociation in the LTQ-FTICR mass spectrometer. The resulting MS/MS spectra were converted to peak lists using BioWorks Browser version 3.2 (ThermoFisher) with default parameters and searched using the Mascot searching algorithm version 2.2 (www.matrixscience.com) against the TAIR8 genome database downloaded from TAIR (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/). The Mascot output was then analyzed using Scaffold (www.proteomesoftware.com) to probabilistically validate protein identifications using the ProteinProphet (CITATION) computer algorithm. Protein-length-normalized NSAF values were calculated according to CITATION. Two destination vectors were created using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). Using the pPZP212 binary vector (CITATION) as a backbone, the 35S promoter, hexa-His (6xHis), and YFP (Clontech) were sequentially cloned into the vectors. pDest-35S-6xHis-YFP-X was designed for fusion of genes with putative PTS1 signals to the C terminus of YFP; pDest-35S-X-YFP-6xHis was designed for fusing genes with putative PTS2 to the N terminus of YFP. The coding region of a novel peroxisomal gene was PCR amplified from the cDNA clone obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center or from total RNA of ecotype Columbia seedlings. Each PCR product was first cloned into a donor vector (pDONR207) by the Gateway BP reaction to create an entry clone and later into the destination vector by the Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen). Four-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants were used for the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transient expression assays. A. tumefaciens strains C85C1 and GV3101 (pMP90) containing the plasmid of interest were incubated at 28°C overnight, washed, and resuspended in water to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5. Cells transformed with plasmids harboring either a YFP fusion or the CFP-PTS1 peroxisomal marker were mixed and infiltrated into tobacco leaves using 1-mL needleless syringes. Leaves of infiltrated plants were analyzed after 2 d by CLSM (Zeiss LSM 510 META). We used 458-, 514-, and 633-nm lasers to excite CFP, YFP, and chlorophyll, respectively. Fluorescence was detected using an emission filter of a 460- to 510-nm band pass for CFP, a 520- to 555-nm band pass for YFP, and a 650-nm long pass for chlorophyll. All images were acquired from single optical sections. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Analysis of PTS conservation in homologous plant ESTs for some of the peroxisomal proteins identified reproducibly by proteomics in this study. Supplemental Figure S2. Sequence alignment of small thioesterase homologs. Supplemental Table S1. Nonperoxisomal proteins identified in Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes. Supplemental Table S2. Sixty-five established proteins of plant peroxisomes identified in Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes by 1-D LC-MS/MS. Supplemental Table S3. Detailed biophysical and MS data for the proteins listed in Table I. Supplemental Table S4. Arabidopsis proteins terminating with the novel PTS1 tripeptides SLM> and SKV>. Supplemental Document S1. Abbreviations used in this report and plant species acronyms used in Figure 3 and Supplemental Figure S1.
