!~ABS~! ACAP-type ARF GTPase activating proteins (ARF-GAPs) regulate multiple cellular processes, including endocytosis, secretion, phagocytosis, cell adhesion and cell migration. However, the regulation of ACAP functions by other cellular proteins is poorly understood. We have reported previously that a plant ACAP, VAN3, plays a pivotal role in plant venation continuity. Here, we report on newly identified VAN3 regulators: the CVP2 (cotyledon vascular pattern 2) 5 PTase, which is considered to degrade IP3 and also to produce PtdIns(4)P from PtdIns(4,5)P2; and a PH domain-containing protein, VAB (VAN3 binding protein). Combinational mutations of both CVP2 and its closest homologue CVL1 (CVP2 like 1) phenocopied the strong allele of van3 mutants, showing severe vascular continuity. The phenotype of double mutants between van3, cvp2 and vab suggested that VAN3, CVP2 and VAB function in vascular pattern formation in the same pathway. Localization analysis revealed that both CVP2 and VAB colocalize with VAN3 in the trans-Golgi network (TGN), supporting their functions in the same pathway. The subcellular localization of VAN3 was dependent on its PH domain, and mislocalization of VAN3 was induced in cvp2 or vab mutants. These results suggest that CVP2 and VAB cooperatively regulate the subcellular localization of VAN3 through the interaction between its PH domain and phosphoinositides and/or inositol phosphates. In addition, PtdIns(4)P, to which VAN3 binds preferentially, enhanced the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3, whereas IP3 inhibited it. These results suggest the existence of PtdIns(4)P and/or IP3-dependent subcellular targeting and regulation of VAN3 ACAP activity that governs plant vascular tissue continuity.
!~RES~! Previously isolated van3/sfc alleles display various strength of defect in the continuity of the leaf vasculature and its phenotype was not significantly affected by the ecotype (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Many of these alleles carry a nonsense or frameshift mutation before the catalytic ARF-GAP domain, whereas a few missense mutations such as sfc-1 and sfc-6 are mapped onto the ARF-GAP domain. However, no missense mutation in other domains of VAN3 was identified (Fig. 1A). fkd2 has a defect in the venation pattern (Fig. 1B,D) and its mutation has been mapped close to the VAN3 locus (CITATION). Complementation test between these genes demonstrate that fkd2 was not rescued by van3-1, and its phenotype was dominant over the strong van3 phenotype (Fig. 1C-E), indicating that FKD2 reduces VAN3 function. Sequencing of fkd2 revealed a point mutation from G to A, which resulted in the change of amino acid from G to E in the PH domain of VAN3 (Fig. 1A). We concluded that fkd2 is an allele of van3, and we named fkd2 as van3-2. These results suggest that the PH domain is necessary for VAN3 function to connect the leaf vascular cells. We have reported from studies of the transient expression of VAN3-VENUS that VAN3 may localize both to subpopulations of the TGN and to unknown organelles in Arabidopsis suspension cells (CITATION). Here, we re-examined the in situ localization of VAN3 using van3-1 mutant lines that had been rescued by pVAN3::VAN3-VENUS (Fig. 2A). To identify the subcellular localization of VAN3-VENUS, we introduced GFP tagged-organelle marker genes into the VAN3-VENUS plants by crossing. The fluorescent signal of VAN3-VENUS showed dot-like localization in leaf vascular cells (see Fig. S1A-C in the supplementary material). This dot-like localization of VAN3-VENUS was observed in all tissues, including immature leaves, petioles and the root stele, in which VAN3 was expressed (see Fig. S2 in the supplementary material). This result indicates that the dot-like localization of VAN3 is common feature in VAN3-expressing cells. Next, we investigated colocalization of the VAN3-VENUS and various organelle markers. Because signals from leaf vascular cells were too weak to determine reliable colocalization with leaf vascular cells, we used petiole cells and root vascular cells in which enough fluorescence signals could be obtained. Dot-like fluorescence of VAN3-VENUS colocalized with some but not all fluorescence signals of the TGN marker GFP-SYP41 (CITATION) (Fig. 2B-E). VAN3-VENUS did not colocalize with the Golgi body marker ST-GFP (CITATION) (Fig. 2F) or with the PVC marker GFP-ARA7/RAB-F2b (CITATION) (Fig. 2G). As in the subcellular localization of the VAN3-VENUS in Arabidopsis suspension cells, VAN3-VENUS also localized to organelles that were not recognized by known organelle markers (Fig. 2D,E, arrows). These results clearly indicate that VAN3 resides both in a subpopulation of the TGN and in unknown organelles. Interestingly, VAN3-VENUS was not distributed uniformly but formed discriminate domains in the TGN marked by GFP-SYP41 (Fig. 2D,E, arrowheads). This result suggests that the TGN segregates into distinct membrane domains that display different biochemical compositions.   [[FIGURE]] Next, we analyzed the requirement of each domain of the VAN3 protein for its proper localization. We generated a series of truncated VAN3 proteins fused to the N terminus of sGFP and expressed them under the authentic promoter in plants. Fig. 3A includes a schematic representation of VAN3-sGFP fusion proteins. Transgenic plants expressing BAR-PH-GAP-sGFP or BAR-PH-sGFP showed dot-like fluorescence signals (Fig. 3B,C), which were similar to those in the full-length VAN3-VENUS (Fig. 2C). By contrast, the BAR-sGFP lines resulted in nuclear and cytoplasmic localization of the fluorescence (Fig. 3D). Deletion of the BAR domain also caused the cytoplasmic localization of the fluorescence (Fig. 3E-H). These results suggest that both the BAR and the PH domains are essential for the proper localization of VAN3. We have reported that the PH domain of VAN3 binds preferentially to PtdIns(4)P (CITATION). PtdIns(4)P is produced by the phosphorylation of PI and the dephosphorylation of PtdIns(4,5)P2 through the action of PI4 kinases and inositol 5′ phosphatases, respectively. CVP2, which encodes an inositol polyphosphate 5′ phosphatase (At5PTase), may function in the VAN3-related signaling pathway because of the phenotypic similarity between cvp2 and van3-2 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we analyzed the genetic interaction of CVP2 and VAN3 in terms of vascular continuity. Vascular discontinuity caused by the cvp2 mutation was restricted in the marginal region of cotyledons and leaves (Fig. 1F), whereas van3-1 caused many vascular islands (VIs) in leaves (Fig. 1C). We presumed that this difference is due to the presence of a redundant paralogue of CVP2. Search of the Arabidopsis genomic database showed a candidate of the paralogue, At2g32010, which was named CVL1 (CVP2-like gene). CVL1 encodes a protein comprising 582 amino acids, of which 459 amino acids were identical to those of CVP2. Although cvl1-1 and cvl1-2 single mutants did not cause any vascular defect (data not shown), the cvp2cvl1-1 double mutant showed an enhanced phenotype of cvp2 (Fig. 1G), which is reminiscent of van3-1 (Fig. 1C). The same result was also obtained by using cvl1-2 allele (data not shown). These results suggest that both CVP2 and CVL1 function redundantly in the continuity of veins, although CVP2 is predominant. Judging from the number of VIs, the phenotype of van3-2 was enhanced by introducing the cvp2 mutation (Fig. 1D,H), whereas the phenotype of van3-1 was not affected by the cvp2 mutation (data not shown). Genetic analysis of triple mutants between sfc-9, cvp2 and cvl1-1 also identified that the strength of vascular phenotype was essentially the same as sfc-9 (see Fig. S3A-C in the supplementary material). It has recently been reported that VAN3 is involved in the maintenance of continuous PIN1 expression domains in leaf primodia (CITATION). To investigate whether CVP2/CVL1 is also involved in this process, we performed PIN1 antibody staining in leaf primodia. Similar to the result obtained by Scarpella et al. (CITATION), in sfc-9, files of cells expressing PIN1 were first produced continuously and then became discontinuous during leaf development, showing a defect of the maintenance of continuous PIN1 expression (see Fig. S4M-P in the supplementary material). cvp2cvl1-1 showed the same defect in maintenance of continuous PIN1 expression (see Fig. S4D-H in the supplementary material) and the PIN1 expression pattern of sfc-9cvp2cvl1-1 was essentially the same as that of sfc-9 and cvp2cvl1-1 (see Fig. S4Q-T in the supplementary material). These results suggest that VAN3 and CVP2/CVL1 act on the pathway at the same point to regulate the continuity of the leaf vasculature.   [[FIGURE]] To analyze the link between VAN3 and CVP2 further, these two proteins were fused to sGFP and eYFP, respectively, and co-expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. They colocalized significantly to the dot-like structures (Fig. 4A-C). We also confirmed the functionality of CVP2-eYFP by introducing pCVP2::CVP2-GFP in cvp2 mutants (data not shown). These results further strengthened the connection between VAN3 and CVP2. VAN3 binds preferentially to PtdIns(4)P, a possible product of CVP2, presumably through its PH domain (CITATION). The PH domain also binds to soluble IP3 [Ins(1,4,5)P3], which is hydrolyzed by CVP2. Therefore, CVP2 may affect VAN3 function by regulating the cellular levels of PtdIns(4)P and/or IP3. Because the PH domain is related to the subcellular localization of proteins, we examined whether CVP2 mutation would affect the subcellular localization of VAN3. At first, we observed the localization of VAN3-sGFP in the leaf vasculatures of cvp2cvl1-1 mutants. Although it was difficult to focus on detail because of the weak fluorescence of VAN3-sGFP, it seems that localization of VAN3 is disturbed in cvp2cvl1-1 mutants (see Fig. S1D,E in the supplementary material). To clarify this issue, we performed subcellular localization analysis using the root vascular cells that give us reliable signals. In cvp2 mutants, dot-like structures derived from sGFP-tagged VAN3 was not largely different from wild-type background (Fig. 4D,E). By contrast, combinational mutations between CVP2 and CVL1 induced the mis-location of VAN3-sGFP from dot-like structures to the cytoplasm (Fig. 4F). To explore the cooperation of VAN3 and CVP2 further, we used a translational product of van3-2 (VAN3G321E), which has a mutation within the PH domain. Subcellular localization of VAN3G321E-sGFP mutants changed dramatically from the dot-like to cytoplasmic localization, accompanied by few dot-like structures in cvp2 (Fig. 4H), but essentially the same in the wild type (Fig. 4G). These results clearly indicate that functional CVP2 or CVL1 is necessary for localization of VAN3 onto the TGN membranes. To isolate the new player acting on vascular continuity through VAN3-mediated phosphoinositide signaling, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screening and obtained At3g63300 as a candidate. We confirmed its interaction by the yeast two-hybrid assay (see Fig. S5 in the supplementary material) and named it as a VAN3-binding protein (VAB), which possessed a PH domain and an unknown domain, DUF828 (Fig. 5A,B). To determine whether VAB is associated with VAN3 in situ, we first examined the colocalization of VAB and VAN3 by transient co-expression of VAB-eYFP and VAN3-sGFP in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermis. In epidermal cells, VAB-eYFP and VAN3-sGFP colocalized as dot-like structures (Fig. 5C-E). Functionality of VAB-eYFP was confirmed by introducing pVAB::VAB-sGFP in vab mutants (data not shown). To identify the direct interaction between VAN3 and VAB in vivo, we performed a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis (CITATION; CITATION). As a control, we used the VAN3-like 3 (VAL3) protein, which is a member of four plant ACAPs, including VAN3. No YFP fluorescence was detected in Arabidopsis protoplasts in which VAB-cYFP (C terminal fragment of YFP) was co-expressed with VAL3-nYFP (N terminal fragment of YFP) (Fig. 5H,I). By contrast, strong dot-like fluorescent signals were observed in protoplasts co-expressing VAN3-nYFP and VAB-cYFP (Fig. 5F,G). This result suggests that VAN3 and VAB form a specific complex in vivo.   [[FIGURE]] To study the involvement of VAB in vascular development, we observed the phenotype of vab mutants. vab-1 and vab-2 mutants caused defects in vascular continuity in cotyledons and leaves: the connection between the midvein and secondary veins, and between the proximal and distal veins, was often lost (Fig. 1I; see Fig. S3D,F in the supplementary material), a pattern that was indistinguishable from the van3-2 vein pattern (Fig. 1D,I). Although the vein phenotypes were essentially the same between sfc-9vab-1 and sfc-9 (see Fig. S3A,C in the supplementary material), veins of both van3-2vab-1 and van3-2vab-2 mutants were more discontinuous than those in cotyledons (Fig. 1D,I,J; see Fig. S3D,E in the supplementary material) and the first leaves (Fig. 1K-N; see Fig. S3F,G in the supplementary material) of any single mutant. Subsequent PIN1 antibody staining during leaf primodium development revealed that vab-1 caused a defect in the maintenance of the continuous PIN1 expression cells (see Fig. S4I-L in the supplementary material), and that the abnormal PIN1 expression in sfc-9 and sfc-9vab-1 were essentially the same (see Fig. S4M-P,U-X in the supplementary material). These results suggest that VAN3 and VAB function on the pathway at the same point for continuous vein formation, and that VAN3 and VAB may form a complex in a subpopulation of the TGNs to cooperatively regulate the vein continuity. Because VAB possesses the PH domain and interacts with VAN3, we hypothesized that the VAN3-VAB complex functions in recognizing the PtdIns(4)P-enriched domain of the membrane, resulting in the recruitment of VAN3 to the correct membrane domain. To address this issue, we examined the subcellular localization of VAN3 in vab-1 mutants. The vab-1 mutation affected the subcellular localization of VAN3G321E-sGFP (Fig. 4I), as did the cvp2 mutation, although the subcellular localization of VAN3-sGFP did not change dramatically in vab-1 mutants (Fig. 4J). In addition, the vab-1 mutation enhanced the mislocation of VAN3-sGFP in the cvp2 mutant background (Fig. 4K; see Fig. S1D,F in the supplementary material). These results suggest that VAB is involved in the recruitment of VAN3 into the PtdIns(4)P-enriched membrane domains of the TGN. Next, we examined the effect of phospholipids on the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3. To achieve this, GST-tagged VAN3, its derivatives and myristoylated AtARF1 were produced in E. coli and purified as shown in the Materials and methods. ARF-GAP activity was quantified using the change in intrinsic Trp fluorescence during the transition from the GTP- to the GDP-bound state of myristoylated AtARF1 (CITATION). Although phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylserine (PS) and PI have no effects (see Fig. S6A in the supplementary material), the ARF GAP activity of VAN3 was stimulated strongly by PtdIns(4)P, and moderately by and PtdIns(4,5)P2 and phosphatidic acid (PA) (Fig. 6A). By contrast, application of a nonhydrolyzable analogue GMPPNP instead of GTP or application of GST instead of GST-VAN3 did not reduce the fluorescence (see Fig. S6B,C in the supplementary material). These results indicate that the ARF GAP activity of VAN3 is dependent on specific phospholipids and that, among the phospholipids, PtdIns(4)P promotes the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3 most efficiently. This finding is consistent with our previous report that the VAN3 PH domain binds to PtdIns(4)P more strongly than to other phospholipids (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] To examine the requirement of the PH domain for the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3, we constructed a mutant VAN3 protein comprising the ARF-GAP domain and ANK repeats. This truncated VAN3 (VAN3GAP-ANK) had negligible ARF-GAP activity even in the presence of PtdIns(4)P or PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Fig. 6B). In addition, VAN3G321E, which harbors the same missense mutation in the PH domain as that of fkd2/van3-2, had weaker ARF-GAP activity than the wild-type VAN3 protein (Fig. 6B). These data suggest that binding of PtdIns(4)P or PtdIns(4,5)P2 to the PH domain is indispensable to the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3. Finally, we examined the effect of IP3 on ARF-GAP activity of VAN3 because the CVP2 mutation elevates the level of IP3 (CITATION) and enhances the phenotype of van3-2. Addition of IP3 in the GAP assay solution inhibited the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3 in the presence of PtdIns(4)P. The inhibitory effect of IP3 on the ARF-GAP activity of VAN3 became stronger with higher concentrations of IP3 (Fig. 6A). This result raises the possibility that CVP2 also upregulates ARF-GAP activity of VAN3 by suppressing the cellular level of IP3.
!~MM~! cvp2 and fkd2 seeds were gifts from Nelson and Schultz. cvl1 and vab seeds were obtained from the ABRC collection with stock numbers SALK 038828 (cvl1-1) and SALK 142575 (vab-1). Seeds of cvl1-2 (SALK 070963) and vab-2 (WiscDsLox342A08) were also used. All the mutants other than van3-1(Ler background) were Columbia background. Surface-sterilized seeds were plated on growth medium containing Murashige and Skoog basal salts, 1.0% (w/v) sucrose, 0.05% (w/v) Mes (pH 5.7) and 0.8% (w/v) Bact Agar (Becton Dickinson). The 3×[(Gly)3Ser]-VENUS sequence was amplified by PCR from the pCS2 plasmid (CITATION). The VAN3-VENUS construct was made using a TT-PCR method (CITATION) with the 3×[(Gly)3Ser]-VENUS sequence and the 8.6 kb XbaI-SpeI genomic fragment of VAN3 that contained the 1.1 kb upstream and the 1.1 kb downstream, as templates. The VAN3-VENUS fragment was cloned into pCAMBIA1300 at XbaI and SpeI sites, resulting in VAN3-VENUS translational fusion. For construction of VAN3 derivatives, essentially the same procedure was used. For subcellular localization analysis of VAN3, transgenic plants harboring VAN3-VENUS were crossed with lines expressing ST-sGFP, sGFP-SYP41 and sGFP-ARA7/RAB-F2b (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), which had been developed by ourselves. For observing the signals of sGFP and VENUS, Zeiss LSM 510 META system was used. sGFP (CITATION) and VENUS were excited with 488 nm line of Argon laser and emitted fluorescence was detected with META detector from 505 to 580 nm. The reference for sGFP or VENUS was obtained from cells expressing only the sGFP or VENUS fused protein. We also obtained the reference for autofluoresence (background) from non-transformed cells. Based on these references, sGFP and Venus signals were separated by Emission Fingerprinting. The genomic fragment of VAB and the cDNA fragment of CVP2 were cloned into a binary vector containing YFP: pH35GY (CITATION). VAN3cDNA was cloned into a binary vector containing GFP: pGWB2 (CITATION). These DNA fragments were introduced into leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana with Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90). Segregation of the fluorescent signals between sGFP and VENUS was performed as described above. Whole-mount immunolocalization of PIN1 was performed with anti-PIN1 (1:1000) and Cy3-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (1:600) as described by Friml et al. (CITATION). cDNA fragments of VAN3, VAL3 and VAB were used for the split-YFP assay. The YFP was split between residues 154 and 155 into nYFP and cYFP parts (CITATION; CITATION). The chimeric gene was subcloned under the control of 35S promoter and the NOS terminator. Co-introduction of VAN3-nYFP or VAL3-nYFP with VAB-cYFP into protoplasts from Arabidopsis cultured cells was performed as described previously (CITATION). The yeast two-hybrid assay was carried out as described previously (CITATION). The cDNAs for VAN3 and VAB were subcloned into pENTR D-topo (Invitrogen) and then moved into pAD-GAL4-GWRFC and pBD-GAL4-GWRFC (CITATION). Plasmids containing VAN3 and VAB were introduced into AH109 strain (Clontech). DNA for VAN3, VAN3G321E and the GAP-ANK domain of VAN3 was amplified by RT-PCR. These DNA fragments were cloned into the pGEX6p-1 vector and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The cells expressing the fusion proteins were resuspended in lysis buffer [50 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% mercaptoethanol and protease inhibitor cocktail (GE Healthcare)] and sonicated. Cell extracts were centrifuged at 10,000 g for 30 minutes, and the supernatant was loaded onto a glutathione-Sepharose 4B column (GE Healthcare). After washing with 10 column volumes of buffer [50 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 500 mM NaCl and 0.1% mercaptoethanol], GST-VAN3 was eluted with elution buffer [20 mM reduced glutathione, 50 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1% mercaptoethanol]. Myristoylated AtARF1 was purified from Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) that was co-transfected with expression vectors for AtARF1 and yeast N-myristoyltransferase, as described previously (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] Nucleotide exchange in the myristoylated AtARF1 was measured by monitoring the change in autofluorescence from intrinsic Trp. The purified myristoylated AtARF1 protein (0.5 μM) was preloaded with 40 μM GTP in reaction buffer (50 mM HEPES, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT and 100 mM NaCl) for 10 minutes, and 3 mM MgCl2 was added to stop the GTP-loading reaction. GTP hydrolysis was initiated by the addition of GST, GST-VAN3 or GST-GAP-ANK with the indicated phospholipids. The fluorescence shift was detected with a fluorescence spectrophotometer (F-2500; Hitachi High Technologies) at an excitation wavelength of 298 nm and an emission wavelength of 340 nm. Primer details can be provided on request.
