!~ABS~! Chloroplasts are the sites of photosynthesis in plants, and they contain their own multicopy, requisite genome. Chloroplasts are also major sites for production of reactive oxygen species, which can damage essential components of the chloroplast, including the chloroplast genome. Compared with mitochondria in animals, relatively little is known about the potential to repair oxidative DNA damage in chloroplasts. Here we provide evidence of DNA glycosylase-lyase/endonuclease activity involved in base excision repair of oxidized pyrimidines in chloroplast protein extracts of Arabidopsis thaliana. Three base excision repair components (two endonuclease III homologs and an apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease) that might account for this activity were identified by bioinformatics. Transient expression of protein-green fluorescent protein fusions showed that all three are targeted to the chloroplast and co-localized with chloroplast DNA in nucleoids. The glycosylase-lyase/endonuclease activity of one of the endonuclease III homologs, AtNTH2, which had not previously been characterized, was confirmed in vitro. T-DNA insertions in each of these genes were identified, and the physiological and biochemical phenotypes of the single, double, and triple mutants were analyzed. This mutant analysis revealed the presence of a third glycosylase activity and potentially another pathway for repair of oxidative DNA damage in chloroplasts. 
!~RES~! Chloroplasts were isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis leaves, and a soluble chloroplast protein extract was prepared by a method used previously to determine nucleotide excision repair and possible BER activity in Arabidopsis whole-cell extracts (CITATION). Chloroplast protein preparations were enriched in a stromal marker protein, CSD2 (CITATION), and were free of detectable contamination by cytosolic, nuclear, and mitochondrial proteins, as assessed by immunoblot analysis of marker proteins for each of these compartments (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] BER enzymatic activities targeted to TG lesions were detected in the chloroplast protein preparation using a plasmid-nicking assay. A supercoiled plasmid DNA substrate, which had been treated with OsO4 to generate TG lesions, was incubated with the chloroplast protein extract, and nicking of the sugar-phosphate backbone by either bifunctional TG glycosylase-lyase or TG glycosylase plus AP endonuclease activities resulted in the appearance of a relaxed, open circular plasmid product of lower mobility in agarose gel electrophoresis (Fig. 1B). The activity was specific to DNA that contained TG lesions, because only a low level of nonspecific nicking activity was detected in the chloroplast extract using untreated control plasmid as substrate.  Candidate BER genes that might encode enzymes responsible for the activity detected in chloroplast extracts were initially selected by sequence similarity to known TG glycosylases. The Arabidopsis genome has two Nth homologs, AtNTH1 (At2g31450) and AtNTH2 (At1g05900), but no recognizable Nei homolog. AtNTH1 and AtNTH2 are homologous to their human and E. coli counterparts, and they have 65% identity and 80% similarity to each other at the protein level. AtNTH2 has two splice variants (At1g05900.1 and At1g05900.2) that are described in data bases (e.g. TAIR). The At1g05900.1 transcript retains a 3′ intron, which introduces a stop codon prior to the conserved C-terminal Fe-S domain (Fig. 2B). By RT-PCR, we identified a third splice variant that lacks the fifth exon (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis also has three genes that encode homologs of AP endonuclease enzymes from human (Ape1) and E. coli (Xth). One of these, ARP (At2g41460), has been shown (CITATION) to have the predicted AP endonuclease activity in vitro. No homolog of the other E. coli AP endonuclease, Nfo, is present in Arabidopsis.  Subcellular localization of these candidate BER enzymes was predicted using six online prediction programs for chloroplast targeting (Table 1). Chloroplast targeting predicted by at least three programs was considered sufficient, and on this basis, AtNTH1, AtNTH2, and ARP were selected for further investigation.  [[TABLE]] cDNAs of AtNTH1, AtNTH2, and ARP were cloned in-frame with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the strong, constitutive 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. The GFP fusion plasmids were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts, which were examined by confocal microscopy after overnight expression. Transient expression of a 35S:GFP control plasmid showed GFP fluorescence in the cytosol and nucleus, but GFP was clearly excluded from the chloroplasts (Fig. 3D). All three fusion proteins expressed GFP in a pattern similar to each other. In each case the GFP fluorescence co-localized with the chlorophyll fluorescence and the visible structure of the chloroplast (Fig. 3, A–C). Moreover, the GFP fluorescence was seen in a distinct punctate pattern within the chloroplasts. DNA staining of these live cells with DAPI was difficult. However when the DAPI staining was successful, the GFP puncta clearly co-localized with the DAPI staining of chloroplast DNA, indicating that each of these proteins is not only chloroplast-targeted but is associated with the chloroplast nucleoids (Fig. 3, F and G).  [[FIGURE]] AtNTH1 was previously shown to have bifunctional glycosylase-lyase activity in vitro (CITATION), but the enzymatic function of AtNTH2 has not been experimentally determined. To test whether AtNTH2 also has glycosylase-lyase activity, a cDNA of the At1g05900.2 splice variant (Fig. 2B), which includes the conserved C-terminal Fe-S domain in the open reading frame, was expressed in and purified from E. coli as a His6-tagged protein. Glycosylase-lyase activity of AtNTH2 was assayed using TG-containing (OsO4-treated) plasmid DNA as a substrate, as described above for chloroplast proteins. The expressed AtNTH2 protein exhibited significant nicking activity specifically on OsO4-treated substrate DNA, consistent with its predicted bifunctional TG glycosylase-lyase activity, whereas an eluate from an empty vector control showed essentially no activity (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] T-DNA insertional disruptions of AtNTH1, AtNTH2, and ARP (Fig. 2) were obtained from either the SALK collection (CITATION) or the SAIL/GARLIC collection (CITATION), and homozygous lines were identified by PCR. RT-PCR was conducted to examine mRNA accumulation in the homozygous mutants (Fig. 5). The atnth2 and arp mutant lines were confirmed to lack their respective transcripts, whereas the atnth1 mutant was found to express an AtNTH1 transcript at a reduced level (Fig. 5 and supplemental Fig. 7). The homozygous lines were crossed with each other to create double mutants and the triple mutant. The atnth1 atnth2 arp triple mutant lacked AtNTH2 and ARP mRNAs but accumulated an intermediate level of AtNTH1 transcript (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the T-DNA insertion mutants affected the TG glycosylase-lyase/endonuclease activity detected in wild-type chloroplast extracts (Fig. 1B), the TG plasmid nicking assay was performed with chloroplast proteins isolated from the single, double, and triple mutant lines. The atnth1 and atnth2 mutants did not affect this glycosylase-lyase/endonuclease activity either independently or in their double mutant (Fig. 6). The arp mutation, however, eliminated the activity alone and in double and triple mutant combinations (Fig. 6).  [[FIGURE]] All mutants were screened for growth differences and whole-plant phenotypes using a variety of measures and under a variety of growth conditions. Photo-oxidative stresses, including high light, hydrogen peroxide, methyl viologen, and UV light were imposed, and parameters such as plant size, weight, lifetime seed production (fitness), and photosynthetic efficiency were measured. No conditions yielded significant or reproducible differences in any measure, even in the triple mutant (supplemental Fig. 8 and supplemental Table 2). 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis lines (Col-0 strain background) were grown in growth chambers or in a greenhouse under standard conditions. Plants were grown under long days (16 h light/8 h dark; 50–100 μmol photons m−2 s−1; 18–23 °C) on either Sunshine Mix (Sun Gro) or Promix (Scott's) combined 3:1 with vermiculite. Plants were watered periodically with Hoagland's nutrient solution (CITATION). T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and backcrossed one to four times to wild type (Col-0). The lines used were SALK_054181 for AtNTH1, SALK_03155 for AtNTH2, and SAIL 866_H10 for ARP. The double mutants atnth1 atnth2 and atnth2 arp were crossed to generate the triple mutant. For phenotypic analysis of mutants, growth conditions were varied as described below.  Chloroplasts were isolated as described previously (CITATION) with some modification. Arabidopsis plants were grown densely in whole flats or in randomly assorted 4-inch pots under short day (10 h light/14 h dark) conditions for 4–7 weeks. ∼50 g of above-ground tissue was harvested with a razor blade and washed quickly in cold water. All subsequent steps were carried out at 4 °C. Tissue was homogenized in 200–250 ml of fresh cold Xpl buffer, filtered through two layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem), and pelleted in 250-ml JA-14 tubes (Beckman) (1880 × g for 5 min at 4 °C). The pelleted material was gently resuspended in ∼4 ml of Xpl and carefully layered onto freshly prepared 40/80% Percoll gradients in 30-ml Corex tubes. The gradients were centrifuged (4740 × g for 18 min at 4 °C) with no braking in a swinging-bucket rotor (JS-13.1; Beckman). The interphase band was harvested into clean tubes, washed with 3 volumes of Xpl, and centrifuged for 5 min at 1880 × g. The pellet was transferred to microcentrifuge tubes and briefly repelleted at 7500 × g, and the supernatant was removed.  The resulting pellet of purified chloroplasts was then processed for total proteins (CITATION). Chloroplasts were fractured by several passes through glass homogenizers and then resuspended and rinsed with ∼7 ml of homogenization buffer. In 10-ml beakers with stirring, 2 m KCl was added to a concentration of 450 mm, and the mixture was incubated for 30 min. This extract was centrifuged at 40,000 × g in a Beckman JA-20 rotor for 1 h. The supernatant was transferred to 10-ml beakers and stirred as ammonium sulfate was added to ∼70% saturation over the course of 1–2 h. The precipitate was centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 1 h; the supernatant was discarded, and the pellet was redissolved in dialysis buffer (25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.8, 100 mm KCl, 12 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA, 17% glycerol, and 2 mm dithiothreitol). The protein was dialyzed overnight against two changes of buffer. Protein was then quantified spectrophotometrically by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad), aliquoted, and frozen at −20 or −80 °C.  Proteins were analyzed by PAGE using standard protocols and precast Tris-glycine gels (Invitrogen). Gels were either analyzed by Coomassie Blue staining (for expressed protein) or by immunoblotting with anti-cytosolic (CSD1) and anti-chloroplastic (CSD2) Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase antibodies (CITATION), anti-histone H3 (ab1791; Abcam), and anti-mitochondrial porin monoclonal antibodies (provided by Dr. Tom Elthon via Dr. Russell Jones). Equal protein amounts (25 μg) assessed by bicinchoninic acid assay (Sigma) of whole-cell or chloroplast extracts were loaded. For immunoblotting, proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and blocked in TBS-T (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% (v/v) Tween) with 5% dry milk. Antibodies were detected with Supersignal West Femto electrochemical detection (Pierce).  Plasmid DNA template was prepared by incubating 5 μg of Midi Prep-prepared (Qiagen) pBluescript SK in 100 μl of distilled H2O with 0.04% OsO4 for 10 min at 75 °C to introduce TG lesions (CITATION). Control plasmid was diluted identically, but not treated. ∼100 ng of DNA was incubated with a varied amount of protein with 200 μg of bovine serum albumin in 20-μl reactions in reaction buffer (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, and 0.5 mm dithiothreitol) for 7 or 15 min at 37 °C. Control reactions used cloned E. coli endonuclease III, human Ape1, or T4 endonuclease V (pyrimidine dimer glycosylase) (New England Biolabs) in the provided reaction buffers. Reactions were stopped with 2.2 μl of stopping buffer (40% (v/v) glycerol, 0.2% (w/v) bromphenol blue, and 1% (w/v) SDS) (CITATION), and 10 μl of each reaction was analyzed on a 1% agarose gel.  Candidates were tested for predicted chloroplast-targeting peptides with six on-line prediction algorithms: TargetP (CITATION); ChloroP (CITATION); iPSORT (CITATION); Predotar (CITATION); PSORT (CITATION); and PCLR (CITATION). PredictNLS, a nuclear localization sequence predictor, was also used (CITATION).  cDNA plasmids U13374 (At1g05900.1/AtNTH2) and U18037 (At2g31450/ AtNTH1) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. An ARP (At2g41460) cDNA was amplified by PCR from first-strand cDNA using primers BG1 and BG2 (see supplemental Table 3 for primers) with Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene). First-strand cDNA was generated with the Superscript II kit (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT) primer. cDNAs with NcoI and SalI restriction sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, were amplified by PCR using primers BG3 and BG4 (AtNTH2), BG3 and BG5 (AtNTH1), and BG6 and BG7 (ARP). The same 5′ primer (BG3) was used for AtNTH1 and AtNTH2, because both cDNAs were provided in the same pUNI plasmid (CITATION). Double digestion with NcoI and SalI allowed ligation of the cDNAs into the 35SΩ-sGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION), in-frame with the GFP and under the control of the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. For the 35S:AtNTH2:GFP fusion, the initiation codon of GFP was fused in-frame, one codon before the stop codon of the shorter (At1g05900.1) splice variant, thereby replacing a penultimate leucine with alanine and the terminal leucine with the methionine of GFP. In the 35S:AtNTH1:GFP construct, the initiating methionine of GFP replaced a lysine three residues from the C terminus of AtNTH1, and the preceding serine became a threonine as a result of the cloning. The 35S:ARP:GFP fusion omitted the C-terminal 54 amino acid residues of ARP, replacing a threonine with the GFP initial methionine and changing the preceding tyrosine to serine.  Protoplast isolation and transformation were done following the method of Abdel-Ghany et al. (CITATION), with the following variations. Plants were grown on soil, and leaves were sliced into ∼1-mm wide strips in sterile water, then submerged, and briefly (∼1 min) vacuum-infiltrated in enzyme solution and incubated at room temperature with gentle shaking for 2–3 h. Protoplasts were pelleted at 200 × g for 2 min. Protoplasts (100 μl) were transformed with 10 μg of plasmid DNA with no salmon sperm DNA. Expression was allowed to occur overnight in 1 ml of W5 solution.  Expression in protoplasts was analyzed by confocal microscopy using a Zeiss 510 confocal laser scanning microscope. All micrographs were taken with a 100× oil immersion objective with a numerical aperture (NA) of 1.4, with the exception of Fig. 2F, which was taken with a 60× oil objective, NA of 1.35. GFP was excited with a 488 nm argon ion laser, and fluorescence was detected using 505–550 nm detector barrier filter. Chlorophyll was excited with a 543-nm helium-neon laser and detected using a 560–700-nm filter. DAPI was excited with a 364-nm Enterprise II laser and detected using a 370–420-nm filter. Images were analyzed and false-colored using Zeiss 510 software, version 2.8.  Total RNA was isolated from leaves of wild-type Arabidopsis using TRIzol reagent (Stratagene), beginning with 100 mg of leaf tissue ground in liquid nitrogen, and first-strand cDNA was amplified as described above. An At1g05900.2 cDNA was amplified in two rounds of PCR using PrimeSTAR high fidelity polymerase (Takara) and the nested primers BG8 and BG9 and then BG10 and BG11 (supplemental Table 3), which contained NdeI restriction sites. A 1130-bp NdeI product, corresponding to At1g05900.2 (Fig. 2B) without the N-terminal first 19 amino acid residues of the putative chloroplast transit peptide, was gel-purified, cloned in-frame (at M20) into the NdeI site of the pET-15b His6 vector (Novagen), and transformed first into a DH5α host strain for sequencing and subsequently into a Rosetta DE3 lysogen (Novagen) expression host. Protein was expressed (CITATION) overnight at 18 °C. Cells were lysed with 100 μg/ml lysozyme for 20 min at 25 °C and sonicated in buffer A (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 10 mm imidazole, and 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol). Cleared lysate was incubated in buffer A with pre-equilibrated nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid HisBind matrix (Novagen) for ∼3 h. The matrix/lysate was loaded into a 5-ml syringe blocked with glass wool and washed two times with 4 ml of buffer B (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, 300 mm NaCl, 30 mm imidazole, 0.1% Tween, and 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol). Protein was eluted six times with 0.5 ml of buffer C (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 400 mm imidazole, and 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol) with 600 mm imidazole in the final two elutions, which were pooled and dialyzed overnight against 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol, and first 25% (v/v) glycerol and then 50% (v/v) glycerol. Dialyzed protein was aliquoted and stored at −20 or −80 °C.  Mutant lines were genotyped by PCR. DNA was isolated from young plant leaf samples as described previously (CITATION). For identifying insertions in AtNTH1 and ARP, a three-primer PCR was carried out (30 cycles of 94 °C denaturation for 30 s, 57 °C annealing for 30 s, and 72 °C elongation for 1 min) with two gene-specific primers flanking the specific insertion site and one insert-specific primer. The genotyping for the T-DNA insertion in AtNTH2 (At1g05900) used two separate reactions, each containing the right-flanking primer and either the left-flanking primer or the insert primer. Primers were as follows: Salk insert left-border, BG12; AtNTH2-specific, BG13 and BG14; AtNTH1-specific, BG15 and BG16; SAIL insert left border, BG17; and ARP-specific, BG18 and BG19 (supplemental Table 3).  RNA expression was tested by RT-PCR of homozygous insertion lines. RNA was isolated from healthy leaf samples with TRIzol reagent (Stratagene). First-strand cDNA was generated as described above. Primers for each gene flanking an intron were then used in a standard high cycle PCR (36 cycles of 94 °C denaturation for 30 s, 58 °C annealing for 30 s, and 72 °C elongation for 1 min). Expression primers (supplemental Table 3) were BG20 to BG25, and reactions using primers BG26 and BG27, which efficiently amplified an unlinked control gene (At1g30480), were conducted to confirm the presence of cDNA. 
