!~ABS~! Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling networks are important regulators of environmental responses and developmental processes in plants. To understand the role of MAPK signalling modules in the regulation of plant microtubule functions, we searched for MAPKs that interact with the dual-specificity MAPK phosphatase, PROPYZAMIDE HYPERSENSITIVE 1 (PHS1), whose mutation has previously been reported to confer hypersensitivity to microtubule-disrupting drugs in Arabidopsis. Yeast two-hybrid assays demonstrated that PHS1 specifically interacts with two MAPKs, MPK12 and MPK18. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) studies confirmed that the PHS1 and MPK18 proteins are physically coupled, and that this interaction occurs in the cytoplasm. At the biochemical level, in vitro dephosphorylation assays indicated that phospho-MPK18 can be dephosphorylated by recombinant PHS1. Mutant mpk18 seedlings show defects in microtubule-related functions, and have moderately stabilized microtubules. Absence of MPK18 in the phs1-1 background partially complements the phs1-1 root growth phenotypes, providing genetic evidence for involvement of MPK18 signalling in microtubule-related functions. We propose a model whereby the PHS1–MPK18 signalling module is involved in a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation switch that regulates cortical microtubule functions.
!~RES~! As a putative MAPK phosphatase, PHS1 is predicted to participate in a physical complex with MAPKs to form a signalling module. To identify Arabidopsis MPKs that might interact directly with PHS1, we used a pairwise yeast two-hybrid assay to evaluate the ability of PHS1 to physically interact with each of the 20 members of the Arabidopsis MPK family. For these assays, PHS1 fused to the DNA-binding domain of GAL4 was used as the bait protein, and individual MPKs fused to the transcriptional activation domain of GAL4 were used as the prey proteins. Of the 20 MPKs tested, only MPK12 and MPK18 interacted strongly with PHS1 (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] To test whether PHS1 could associate with MPK12 and MPK18 in vivo, we performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in Nicotiana leaf epidermal cells. In BiFC, the putative bait and prey partners are fused separately to the N- and C-terminal regions of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (CITATION). A physical association between bait and prey brings the N- and C-terminal fragments of the split YFP together, and allows functional reassembly of the fluorescent protein. When PHS1–YC and MPK18–YN were co-expressed, a positive YFP signal was detected in the cytoplasm (Figure 1b). However, no YFP fluorescence was detected for the PHS1–YC and MPK12–YN pair, or in the negative control (PHS1–YC and empty vector–YN). These observations confirm that PHS1 and MPK18 are able to physically interact both in vitro and in vivo. To determine whether MPK18 is a substrate of PHS1, we checked the ability of recombinant PHS1 to dephosphorylate phospho-MPK18 in vitro. For this purpose, we allowed recombinant MPK18 protein to autophosphorylate itself, as the identity of the endogenous MAP kinase kinase (MKK) that normally activates MPK18 is unknown. Incubation in vitro of autophosphorylated MPK18 with the generic MAPK substrate, myelin basic protein, confirmed that the autophosphorylated MPK was catalytically activated (Figure 1d). Treatment of 32P-autophosphorylated MPK18 with purified recombinant PHS1 results in removal of most of the incorporated label (Figure 1c), and this treatment also reduces the ability of activated MPK18 to phosphorylate myelin basic protein in vitro (Figure 1d), despite the continuous re-activation of the kinase through autophosphorylation. PHS1 displays specificity towards MPK18, as the recombinant phosphatase failed to dephosphorylate another autophosphorylated MPK, pMPK4, in vitro (Figure 1c). Taken together, these results demonstrate that MPK18 is a catalytically active kinase and substrate of PHS1. To investigate the biological significance of the PHS1–MPK18 interaction, we first examined the expression pattern of both PHS1 and MPK18. If the interaction between PHS1 and MPK18 is to have an influence on biological processes in vivo, it is necessary for the expression patterns of the PHS1 and MPK18 genes to overlap during various development stages in plant cells. Using RT-PCR analysis, PHS1 gene expression was previously reported to occur in all major organs (CITATION). To obtain a more detailed view of this pattern, we used a PHS1 promoter::GUS construct to monitor PHS1 promoter activity at various time points throughout Arabidopsis development. Expression of GUS was detected in all major tissue types, with the strongest signal observed in the root and leaf vasculature, the hypocotyls, at the hypocotyl–root junction, and in guard cells, the inflorescence stem and the stigma (Figure 2a). RT-PCR analysis detected MPK18 mRNA in all the major tissues of Arabidopsis tested, indicating that, like PHS1, MPK18 has the potential to be active in most parts of the plant (Figure 2b). Thus, both PHS1 and MPK18 are ubiquitously expressed in major organs and throughout development. [[FIGURE]] We further extended the expression analysis by examining the subcellular distribution of the PHS1 and MPK18 proteins. For this purpose, the full-length PHS1 and MPK18 coding sequences were each fused to the 5′ end of the GFP-encoding gene, and the resulting constructs were placed downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. Functionality of the GFP–MPK18 fusion product was demonstrated by its ability to complement the deficiency phenotype of an mpk18 null allele when expressed in that background (see below). When these two constructs were each transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, laser scanning confocal microscopic examination of the transformed cells revealed strong cytosolic localization of the chimeric proteins, with no apparent labelling in the nucleus (Figure 3b,c). [[FIGURE]] If PHS1 and MPK18 interact with proteins at the microtubule polymer surface and thereby directly influence microtubule functions, we hypothesized that GFP–PHS1 and GFP–MPK18 would be observed to co-localize with cortical microtubules. However, when the GFP–PHS1 or GFP–MPK18 constructs were transiently co-expressed with mRFP–TUB6 in tobacco epidermal cells, neither GFP–PHS1 fluorescence nor GFP–MPK18 fluorescence co-localized with mRFP–tubulin-labelled microtubules (Figure 3e,f). It therefore appears that either PHS1 and MPK18 do not interact with proteins at the microtubule surface, or their association with microtubules is very transient. To further define the subcellular distribution of functional MPK18 and PHS1, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants stably expressing GFP–MPK18 in the mpk18 mutant background and GFP–PHS1 in the phs1-1 mutant background. The GFP–MPK18 protein showed predominantly cytoplasmic labelling in epidermal root cells of these transgenic plants, consistent with the localization observed in the tobacco leaf epidermis transient expression assays (Figure 3d). However, we could detect little or no GFP fluorescence in T1 progeny when the GFP–PHS1 construct was integrated into phs1-1 plants. It is possible that expression of PHS1 cDNA under the control of the strong CaMV 35S promoter is not stable in Arabidopsis, and that native regulatory regions are required (T. Hashimoto, Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan, personal communication). Overall, however, these expression studies demonstrate that the tissue distribution patterns of PHS1 and MPK18 expression overlap, and that these two proteins are both located in the cytoplasm. In order to establish a functional link between MPK18 and microtubule organization, we examined the effect of loss of function of MPK18 on microtubule-dependent biological processes. Two mpk18 T-DNA insertional mutant lines were obtained from the SALK T-DNA insertion collection (SALK accession number SALK_069399, herein named mpk18-1, and SALK accession number SALK_112260, named mpk18-2) with insertions in exon 3 and the 5′ promoter region, respectively (Figure 4a). The complete absence of MPK18 mRNA in the mpk18-1 line was confirmed by RT-PCR (Figure 4b), but substantial levels (approximately 50%) of MPK18 transcript were detected in the mpk18-2 line. As the mpk18-1 line probably represents a null allele, it was used for further phenotypic analysis. [[FIGURE]] Homozygous mpk18-1 mutant plants were morphologically similar to wild-type plants at all stages of development, but displayed a subtle, yet informative, root growth phenotype when treated with low doses of microtubule-disrupting drugs. The Arabidopsis root is a useful system for studies of the microtubule cytoskeleton and the process of directional cell expansion. Directional biases in root growth have been specifically associated with changes in microtubule stability (CITATION; CITATION), whether induced by mutation or by treatment with chemicals that have an impact on microtubule dynamics. Treatment of growing roots with low doses of the microtubule-disrupting inhibitors oryzalin and propyzamide, as well as the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol, can alter root elongation and generate left-handed root twisting. These responses appear as leftward root skewing in seedlings grown on vertical agar plates, when viewed from above the plates. When we compared the sensitivity of mutant mpk18-1 roots and wild-type roots to two microtubule-destabilizing drugs, oryzalin and propyzamide, we observed leftward root skewing in the wild-type roots. A much lower degree of leftward root skewing was induced in mpk18-1 roots by application of 0.12 μm oryzalin or 2 μm propyzamide (Figure 4c,d). In contrast, root elongation in mpk18-1 seedlings was more severely inhibited at 0.12 μm and slightly higher oryzalin concentrations (0.15 and 0.2 μm oryzalin) than that in wild-type plants (Figure 4e). Interestingly, the skewing response of mpk18-1 mutants to low taxol was not significantly different from that of wild-type plants. This pattern of responses leads to the hypothesis that microtubules in the mpk18 mutant are more resistant to microtubule-disrupting drugs but do not show altered sensitivity to the microtubule-stabilizing agent taxol. Stable expression of 35S::GFP–MPK18 in the mpk18-1 line was able to rescue the altered root growth phenotype (Figure 5), confirming that the drug sensitivity phenotype was specifically caused by loss of MPK18. These data are consistent with a role for MPK18 in mediating root skewing and elongation processes, possibly through regulation of microtubule organization and dynamics. [[FIGURE]] As mutant mpk18-1 seedlings show altered responses to low doses of microtubule-disrupting drugs, we hypothesized that the mpk18-1 mutation might affect the stability of microtubules. When we examined cortical microtubule arrays in wild-type and mpk18-1 fixed roots labelled with anti-tubulin antibodies, the overall organization of the cortical arrays appeared to be normal in mpk18-1 roots. Throughout much of the root elongation zone, cortical microtubules remained transverse and well-organized in both mpk18-1 mutants and wild-type seedlings (Figure 6a). Next, we determined whether alterations in the stability of microtubules could be detected in mpk18-1 roots by subjecting them to short-term oryzalin treatments that affect microtubules rapidly enough for convenient observation without obscuring genotypic differences (CITATION; CITATION). When we treated wild-type and mpk18-1 roots for short periods (20 min) with 0.6 μm oryzalin and checked the stability of microtubules in epidermal cells of the root elongation zone of the fixed tissue, wild-type cells were found to possess only a very few microtubules. In contrast, mpk18-1 roots treated in the same way retained significantly more microtubules, which were relatively better co-aligned (Figure 6b). These observations suggest that loss of MPK18 function is associated with a moderate increase in microtubule stabilization. Taken together, our data support a model in which MPK18 and PHS1 form a functional signalling module that helps to mediate microtubule-related functions in plant cells, perhaps through regulation of microtubule dynamic instability. [[FIGURE]] To verify a functional relationship between MPK18 and PHS1, we utilized a genetic approach to determine whether absence of the MPK18 protein would rescue the reduced root length and leftward root-skewing phenotypes observed in the phs1-1 allele background. When double mutant mpk18 phs1-1, plants were examined for the effectiveness of MPK18 removal in complementing the phs1-1 root growth defects, we found that both the root growth and root skewing responses of the phs1-1 mutant were partially rescued (Figure 7a–c). Taken together, the genetic data indicate the biological significance of the physical interaction that we observed between PHS1 and MPK18. The root-skewing phenotype observed in phs1-1 plants was previously suggested to be a consequence of the location of the phs1-1 point mutation (R64C) within the putative MAPK interaction motif of PHS1 (CITATION). However, when we reconstructed PHS1-1(R64C) cDNA and tested the ability of its product to interact with MPK18, we found that PHS1-1(R64C) and MPK18 continue to show positive interactions both in yeast two-hybrid and BiFC assays (Figure S1). This suggests that the effect of the phs1-1 mutation on microtubule function in planta may not be directly mediated through interaction of PHS1 with MPK18 at its putative docking motif. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were cold-treated for 2–3 days and grown aseptically on Hoagland medium solidified with 1.2% agar at 21°C with a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle. Plants were transferred to soil after 2–3 weeks, and grown on under the same environmental conditions. Double mutant plants were screened by PCR in the F2 generation. For drug treatments, seedlings were grown on medium containing drugs at the indicated concentrations for 5–7 days. Stock solutions of oryzalin (10 mm), propyzamide (10 mm) and taxol (10 mm) (all Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) were prepared in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, the proquest yeast two-hybrid system (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) was used, together with pDEST32-PHS1 and each of 20 Arabidopsis MAPKs (in the pDEST22 vector) introduced into the yeast strain MaV203. The positive clones were isolated on the basis of two selectable markers, URA3 and HIS3. BiFC assays were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The p19 viral suppressor of gene silencing was co-expressed (CITATION) with the YFP constructs to enhance transient expression of BiFC fusion proteins. Proteins fused to the N- or C-terminal part of YFP in respective BiFC vectors (pBatTL) were co-expressed transiently in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. For co-expression experiments, an equal volume of each transformed Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 culture (OD600 = 0.5) was mixed with P19-transformed culture (OD600 = 0.7) before infiltration. YFP fluorescence was analysed 40–48 h after infiltration by laser scanning confocal microscopy. For GFP and mRFP–TUB6 co-expression, bacterial cultures (OD600 = 0.5) were mixed before infiltration, infiltrated as described previously (CITATION), and analysed after 48 h. GST–PHS1, GST–MPK18 and GST–MPK4 were expressed as glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells. An overnight culture was diluted by transferring to new LB medium supplemented with ampicillin, and shaking at 30°C until the absorbance at 600 nm was between 0.4 and 0.6. Isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside (IPTG) was then added to a final concentration of 0.5–1 mm, and the culture was incubated at 25°C for 4 h (GST–MPK4 and GST–MPK18) or at 16°C overnight (GST–PHS1). Bacterial cultures were pelleted at 6000 g, lysed by sonication, and the fusion proteins were purified on a glutathione–Sepharose 4B column as recommended by the manufacturer (Pharmacia, http://www.gelifesciences.com). The protein concentrations of the recombinant proteins were determined using a Bradford assay with BSA as the standard. For the in vitro de-phosphorylation assay, GST–MPK18 (1 μg) was incubated in 25 μl of kinase buffer (50 mm Tris/HCl pH 7.5, 2 mm DTT, 10 mm MgCl2, 0.1 mm ATP and 5 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP) at 30°C for 30 min. To de-phosphorylate the autophosphorylated MPK18 protein, recombinant PHS1 protein (1 μg) was mixed with the autophosphorylated MPK18 (1 μg), and the reaction was incubated for an additional 30 min at 30°C. Autophosphorylated GST–MPK4 (1 μg) prepared in a similar way was also incubated with PHS1 (1 μg). The reactions were terminated by addition of concentrated SDS–PAGE sample buffer followed by boiling for 5 min. Reaction products were analysed using SDS–PAGE, autoradiography, and Coomassie brilliant blue staining. For kinase activity assays, autophosphorylated MPK18 (1 μg) was incubated with PHS1 (0.5 or 1 μg) essentially as described above. The samples were then incubated (30 min at 30°C) in kinase buffer containing 2 μg myelin basic protein. The reaction was stopped by adding SDS–PAGE sample buffer, and the phosphorylation of myelin basic protein was assessed by SDS–PAGE followed by autoradiography. Full-length cDNAs corresponding to PHS1 and MPK18 were amplified by PCR, cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO or pENTR/D-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen), and subcloned into Gateway® binary vectors by LR recombination (Invitrogen). For GFP analysis, PHS1 and MPK18 were subcloned into pMDC43 and pMDC83 destination vectors to generate N- and C-terminal fusions with GFP. The constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). The vector pDEST15 (Invitrogen), which expresses the recombinant protein with an N-terminal GST tag, was used to produce GST–PHS1 and GST–MPK18 constructs. The PHS1 promoter was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pCAMBIA1381Z binary vector to generate a PHS1 promoter–GUS fusion, which was transformed into wild-type (Col) Arabidopsis plants. Homozygous T3 generation plants were used for histochemical GUS analysis as described previously (CITATION). R64C mutant PHS1 cDNA was generated by QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com) and confirmed by sequencing. Total RNA from various plant tissues was isolated using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Reverse transcription was performed using a first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Invitrogen). The following primers were used for the RT-PCR analysis: ACT8 forward, 5′-ATTAAGGTCGTGGCA-3′; ACT8 reverse, 5′-TCCGAGTTTGAAGAGGCTAC-3′; MPK18 forward, 5′-ATGCAACAAAATCAAGTGAAG-3′; MPK18 reverse, 5′-CTATGATGCTGCGCTGTAAC-3′; PHS1 forward, 5′-ATGGCGGAACCTGAGAAGAAG-3′; PHS1 reverse, 5′-CTAACCAGGATGAGATTGGAA-3′. For mpk18-1 genotyping by PCR, the primers RP (5′-GATCAAAAGCATTATGCTGCC-3′), LP (5′-TTTTGGTGTGCCAAGAAGATC-3′) and LBa1 (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGCCATCG-3′) were used to detect the T-DNA insertion in genomic DNA isolated from the leaves of 2-week-old seedlings. For immunolabelling of intact roots, specimens were prepared as described previously (CITATION). Anti-α-tubulin (clone B512, diluted 1/1000; Sigma-Aldrich) was used as the primary antibody and IgG:Alexa-488 was used as secondary antibody. For light microscopy, a Leica stereomicroscope (M216FA; http://www.leica.com) equipped with a DC500 (Leica); was used. Confocal imaging was performed using a 63× NA 1.4 oil-immersion objective mounted on a Zeiss LSM 510 microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/), using the 488 nm line from an argon laser. GFP, YFP and IgG:Alexa-488 fluorescence was observed using a 505–545 nm emission filter. Image analysis was performed using imagej software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/).
