!~ABS~! Chloroplast division involves the tubulin-related GTPase FtsZ that assembles into a ring structure (Z-ring) at the mid-chloroplast division site, which is where invagination and constriction of the envelope membranes occur. Z-ring assembly is usually confined to the mid-chloroplast site by a well balanced counteraction of the stromal proteins MinD and MinE. The in vivo mechanisms by which FtsZ nucleates at specific sites, polymerises into a protofil-ament and organises a closed ring of filament bundles remain largely unknown. To clarify the dynamic aspects of FtsZ, we developed a living cell system for simultaneous visualisation of various FtsZ configurations, utilising the Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressor and mutant of the MinE (AtMinE1) gene, which were modified to weakly express green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to AtFtsZ1-1. Time-lapse observation in the chloroplasts of both plants revealed disorderly movement of the dots and short filaments of FtsZ. The short filaments often appeared to emanate from the dots and to converge with a long filament, producing a thick cable. In the AtMinE1 overexpressor, we also observed spirals along the longitudinal axis of the organelle that often rolled the closed rings together. In the atminE1 mutant, we visualised the ‘isolated’ rings with a maximum diameter of ∼2 μm that did not encircle the organelle periphery, but appeared to be suspended in the stroma. Our observations further demonstrated heterogeneity in chloroplast shapes and concurrently altered configurations of FtsZ in the mutant.
!~RES~! Whilst GFP labelling is generally advantageous in visualising the spatio-temporal regulation of molecules of interest in living cells, the overexpression of an FtsZ–GFP transgene causes an unwanted inhibitory effect on normal chloroplast division (Vitha et al. CITATION, Gremillon et al. CITATION, Fujiwara et al. CITATION) that is possibly due to a stoichiometric imbalance between FtsZ and its interacting proteins and/or between FtsZ1 and FtsZ2. In fact, immunofluorescence staining of fixed plant cells was preferably used for FtsZ intrachloro- plastic localisation in most studies (McAndrew et al. CITATION, Mori et al. CITATION, Vitha et al. CITATION, Kuroiwa et al. CITATION, Momoyama et al. CITATION, Yoder et al. CITATION, McAndrew et al. CITATION). In a recent study, we generated transgenic A. thaliana plants, which moderately expressed an FtsZ1–GFP transgene under the control of an upstream genomic sequence of AtFtsZ1-1, but displayed sufficient GFP signals without an apparent inhibition of normal chloroplast division (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). We chose to make our observations in petioles because a gradient of chloroplast development can be readily observed along the elongation axis in petioles, enabling us to associate chloroplast division with leaf development (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). In the current study, we used a red-shifted excitation/emission filter set, which is normally used for yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) observation (see Materials and Methods). We found that this modification reduced background autofluorescence derived from chlorophyll and the cell wall. The time available for obtaining time-lapse images upon GFP observation was extended at the cost of signal gain. Under these conditions, we observed chloroplast morphology and FtsZ1–GFP localisation in the petioles of the transgenic lines that had moderately (FtsZ1–GFP line) or strongly (FtsZ1–GFP-ox line) expressed FtsZ1–GFP. The FtsZ1–GFP-ox line was previously obtained during the screening process of the FtsZ1–GFP lines (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). In the cortical cells of the leaf petioles, GFP signals appeared as ring-like formations at the midpoint of dividing chloroplasts in the FtsZ1–GFP line, whilst in the FtsZ1–GFP-ox line, the GFP signals appeared as unorganised networks or randomly oriented thick bands within enlarged chloroplasts (Fig. 1A, upper panels). A comparison of the signal intensities through the GFP (YFP) channel between the FtsZ1–GFP line and the wild-type (non-transgenic) plant suggested the presence of FtsZ1–GFP diffusion signals throughout the chloroplasts in addition to the Z-rings (Fig. 1A, upper panels), as noted previously (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). The Z-rings were efficiently detected in the small-sized plastids or immature chloroplasts (simply referred to as chloroplasts hereafter) of the epidermal pavement cells in the FtsZ1–GFP line (Fig. 1A, lower panels), demonstrating the utility of this line for Z-ring observation in various tissues. Plastid (non-photosynthetic type of chloroplast)-encircling, distorted loops of FtsZ1–GFP were observed with high fluorescence intensity in the trichomes of the FtsZ1–GFP-ox line (Fig. 1A, lower panels). This suggests various cell-specific effects from FtsZ1–GFP overexpression, such as disorganised networks in the petiole cortex and pavement cells, or thick distorted loops in the trichomes (Fig. 1A). Immunoblotting using the anti-GFP antibody confirmed that the amount of FtsZ1–GFP in the FtsZ1–GFP-ox line was higher than in the FtsZ1–GFP line (Fig. 1B). However, the amount of FtsZ1–GFP may only differ slightly between the two lines according to the signal intensities of the FtsZ1–GFP bands, which implies that the chloroplast division machinery only works properly when the FtsZ1 level is within a narrow permissible range. The results of immunoblotting also confirmed that the GFP signals from the two transgenic lines were derived from intact FtsZ1–GFP proteins and not from degraded fluorescent pieces of the fusions.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtMinE1 is an A. thaliana homologue of the eubacterial topological specificity factor MinE (Itoh et al. CITATION, Maple et al. CITATION, Reddy et al. CITATION). Previous studies demonstrated that AtMinE1 is localised within chloroplasts and that either the overexpression, repression or insertional mutation of the AtMinE1 gene leads to the generation of enlarged chloroplasts and a decreased number of chloroplasts per cell, although the chloroplast morphology is different amongst the three derived plant types (Itoh et al. CITATION, Itoh and Yoshida CITATION, Maple et al. CITATION, Reddy et al. CITATION, Fujiwara et al. CITATION). In taking advantage of the large-sized chloroplasts in the AtMinE1 mutant (atminE1) and overexpressor (AtMinE1ox) plants, we intended to establish a cellular system suitable for live imaging of FtsZ dynamics. We previously introduced the FtsZ1–GFP transgene into both atminE1 and AtMinE1ox plants by crossing them with the FtsZ1–GFP line (Fujiwara et al. CITATION) and utilised the two resultant lines for the above-mentioned purpose. In all of the experiments described below, the chloroplasts in the first layer of the cortical cells on the adaxial side of the leaf petiole were observed in these lines, unless otherwise specified. We newly found FtsZ dots within multiple dividing chloroplasts in the AtMinE1ox plant (Fig. 2A); this was in addition to the multiple rings and straying thin filaments that were previously reported. The FtsZ dots appeared to be either separate or adjacent to the Z-rings (Fig. 2B). Individual FtsZ dots moved around in an undirected manner, but the movement seemed to be substantially different from typical Brownian motion (Fig. 2B, cyan arrowhead, and Supplementary Movies S1 and S2). Distinct FtsZ dots, or somewhat amorphous structures, were also frequently observed in the middle of the FtsZ filaments (Fig. 2B, magenta arrowheads, and Supplementary Movies S1 and S2). In addition, FtsZ dots were occasionally located at the end of FtsZ filaments, as if the filaments emanated from or terminated at the dots (Fig. 2C). We hypothesised that the terminal FtsZ dots may be starting points for FtsZ filament elongation, but not ending points, because we observed a short FtsZ filament that originated from a terminal dot converge with a long FtsZ filament and produce an obviously thick, bundled subregion within the long filament (Fig. 2D). It might be possible that such the dot-like nucleators of FtsZ filaments could be integrated, but masked, in the closed Z-rings in wild-type chloroplasts. The waggling motion of the terminal dot and the dot-attached end of the short filament, without movement of the bundled subregion of the filaments, indicates that the dot was anchored by the bundled subregion of the FtsZ filaments, and that the short and long filaments were physically tied and not simply coaligned parallel to one another.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Although spiral-like forms of FtsZ in chloroplasts have been reported for wild-type plants (Vitha et al. CITATION, Momoyama et al. CITATION), transgenic plants (Vitha et al. CITATION) and mutants (Miyagishima et al. CITATION, Yoder et al. CITATION), no conclusive evidence has demonstrated that the observed FtsZ structures were continuous spirals. The structures may be made up of a collection of multiple closed rings and unclosed filaments (arcs). Through careful observations on individual chloroplasts in the AtMinE1ox plant with a shift in the focal plane along the z-axis, we reconstituted the bona fide continuous spirals of FtsZ (Fig. 3). The FtsZ spirals often rolled the closed rings together, and a single chloroplast sometimes contained two or more spirals (Fig. 3A and 3C, right illustration), or a separate closed ring and a spiral together (Fig. 3B and 3C, left illustration). FtsZ spirals that were similar to those observed in AtMinE1ox chloroplasts also appeared in the chloroplasts of the A. thaliana arc11 mutant, which is a loss-of-function AtMinD1 mutant (Marrison et al. CITATION, Fujiwara et al. CITATION). Additionally, multiple rings (up to 13 rings), dots and short filaments of FtsZ were observed (Supplementary Fig. S1).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The FtsZ spirals in the AtMinE1ox plant (Fig. 3) clearly differ from the spiral-like forms observed in the giant chloroplasts of the ARC6 overexpression lines (Vitha et al. CITATION) and arc5, pdv1, pdv2, pdv1 pdv2 and atftsZ1-1 mutants (Miyagishima et al. CITATION, Yoder et al. CITATION) of A. thaliana. That is, the spirals in AtMinE1ox were regularly formed along and throughout the longitudinal axis of the chloroplasts, with a relatively constant pitch (approximately 3 μm on average) surrounding the organelle periphery. This is in contrast to the relatively disorganised spirals in the ARC6 overexpressor plants (Vitha et al. CITATION) and the centrally biased spirals with narrower and less steady pitches in the arc5, pdv1, pdv2, pdv1 pdv2 and atftsZ1-1G366A mutants (Miyagishima et al. CITATION, Yoder et al. CITATION). These differences between AtMinE1ox and the other mutants/transgenics in the spiral configurations of FtsZ might reflect site differences whereby normal chloroplast division control is disturbed; ARC6, ARC5, PDV1, PDV2 and AtFtsZ1-1 all constitute the chloroplast division machinery in the stroma (AtFtsZ1-1; McAndrew et al. CITATION), inner envelope membrane (ARC6; Vitha et al. CITATION), outer envelope membrane (PDV1 and PDV2; Miyagishima et al. CITATION, Glynn et al. CITATION) or the cytosolic surface of the organelle (ARC5; Gao et al. CITATION). AtMinE1 is currently considered not to be a part of the division machinery, but is involved in the confinement of the division machinery assembly site in the mid-chloroplast, in co-operation with AtMinD1 (Maple and Møller CITATION, Fujiwara et al. CITATION). Furthermore, FtsZ spirals in the arc11 (atminD1A296G) mutant resemble those in AtMinE1ox (Supplementary Fig. S1). This similarity in the AtMinE1ox and arc11/atminD1 FtsZ configurations is consistent with the proposed model in which AtMinE1 counteracts AtMinD1 to specify a single midpoint at which Z-rings are allowed to form (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). The overexpression of AtMinE1 or the dysfunction of AtMinD1 probably fails to compress the FtsZ spiral into the mid-chloroplast zone, which might result in the formation of loosely expanded spirals instead of the centrally compressed spirals seen in division machinery protein mutants. Vitha et al. (CITATION) observed FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 (AtFtsZ2-1) filaments that spiralled off the central Z-ring in late-dividing chloroplasts of wild-type A. thaliana by means of immunofluorescence microscopy. Such FtsZ filament spiralling likely represents an intrinsic intermediary state during the late stage of chloroplast division in which twisted FtsZ filaments join with the central Z-ring, or excess FtsZ filaments unwind from the shrinking Z-ring. We favour the former explanation because of the bundling nature of FtsZ filaments that we inferred from Fig. 2D. In addition, the spiral-like configurations of plastid FtsZ were observed in logarithmically proliferating cells from a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY- 2line (Momoyama et al. CITATION), which further implies that the FtsZ spiral is a transitional structure that is finally converted into functional closed Z-ring(s). FtsZ spirals that rolled the closed rings together, like in AtMinE1ox (Fig. 3C), might be explained by such a conversion process. Next, we observed FtsZ distribution in the chloroplasts of atminE1 plants (Fig. 4 and Supplementary Fig. S2). In the giant chloroplasts of atminE1, we could visualise ‘isolated’ rings of FtsZ in addition to the previously reported dots and short filaments (Fig. 4A). In contrast to the Z-rings observed in wild-type and AtMinE1ox chloroplasts, these isolated rings did not encircle the organelle periphery, but appeared to be suspended in the stroma. The diameter of the isolated rings was not more than 2 μm, and they had no apparent location preference with regard to neighbouring FtsZ configurations (i.e., dots or short filaments) and chloroplast morphology (Fig. 4A). Recently, Vítová et al. (CITATION) reported the presence of tiny FtsZ rings and dots, which appeared not to be associated with the chloroplast membrane, during the cell cycle of the green alga Scenedesmus quadricauda. This implies that the isolated rings and the dots of FtsZ might play a certain role in the normal process of Z-ring assembly and consequently chloroplast division. Moreover, co-occurrence of the isolated rings and the dots (Vítová et al. CITATION, this study) highlights the possibility that the ‘dot’ might be an isolated ring of minimal size, in fact, which would appear as a filled body due to the limit of resolution.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, Srinivasan et al. (CITATION) observed similar rings of heterologously expressed Escherichia coli FtsZ (EcFtsZ)–GFP, which had a diameter comparable to those observed in atminE1 (i.e. <2 μm), in the cytoplasm of fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Time-lapse microscopy of GFP fused to EcFtsZQ47K, which is a mutant EcFtsZ with a much weaker GTPase activity, revealed that the tiny rings were formed from the linear bundles of FtsZ filaments through a spooling-like mechanism (Srinivasan et al. CITATION). The striking resemblance of the tiny FtsZ rings in the atminE1 chloroplasts to those in the yeast cytoplasm suggests that chloroplast FtsZ rings in atminE1 and wild-type plants can also be formed by a spooling process of the linear bundles. Additionally, our present data provide new evidence that chloroplast FtsZ can organise into closed rings through the steep curvature of filaments in the absence of a chloroplast division initiation factor such as AtMinE1. Time-lapse observation of FtsZ in atminE1 chloroplasts revealed disorderly movement, or rather fluctuation, of the FtsZ dots and short filaments within a certain area, at higher resolutions than in the previous study (Fig. 4B and 4C and Supplementary Movie S3). Location and emergence of the dots and short filaments also looked disorderly; we found no regularities and preferences in their intra-organelle locations, and varying degrees of dot/filament ratios within each chloroplast, even within the same tissue (Supplementary Fig. S2). Short filaments in atminE1 chloroplasts were found in two basic locations: one was seemingly suspended in the stroma (Fig. 4B and Supplementary Movie S3), and the other ran along the chloroplast periphery as if it were stuck on the inner envelope membrane (data not shown; see Fujiwara et al. CITATION and Supplementary Movie S1). The latter structure might visually resemble the FtsZ arc, which grew bidirectionally from a putative nucleation point to finally become a complete Z-ring surrounding the division plane of E. coli cells (Addinall and Lutkenhaus CITATION, Addinall et al. CITATION, Sun and Margolin CITATION) and cyanelles (peptidoglycan-walled chloroplasts) of the glaucocystophyte Cyanophora paradoxa (Sato et al. CITATION, CITATION). As is the case with AtMinE1ox chloroplasts (Fig. 2B and Supplementary Movies S1 and S2), the FtsZ movement in atminE1 chloroplasts appears to be distinct from Brownian motion. The maximum apparent velocity of the dots in the observational x–y plane was 3.4 μm s−1, as estimated by tracking the time-lapse images, whilst the maximum velocities of the ends and midpoints of the short filaments were 4.7 μm s−1 and 3.4 μm s−1, respectively. Note also that we frequently observed motionless dots and filaments. As a general rule, the dots moved more frequently than the short filaments, and the shorter the filament, the more frequently it moved. The velocity range of the dots in the atminE1 chloroplasts was comparable to AtMinE1ox (min. 0 μm s−1, max. 2.6 μm s−1). However, the velocity range for the short filament ends in atminE1 was greater than in AtMinE1ox (min. 0 μm s−1, max. 0.6 μm s−1), although short filaments in motion that had their ends unfixed were rarely observed in AtMinE1ox chloroplasts. The mobility of FtsZ dots and short filaments (Figs. 2B, 2D, 4B, 4C, Supplementary Fig. S1 [Short filament panels] and Supplementary Movies) and the presence of faint diffusion signals from FtsZ1–GFP throughout the stromal region (Fig. 1A, upper panels) suggested that the assembled FtsZ structures might actively turn over, swiftly exchanging subunits with the soluble pool of stromal FtsZ. Nevertheless, at present whether the motility of FtsZ structures in chloroplasts actually involves the assembly and disassembly of FtsZ monomers is unknown. Chloroplast observations in the leaf epidermal (pavement) cells of atminE1 plants highlighted unexpected heterogeneity in the distribution patterns of FtsZ, even within the same tissue (Fig. 4D). We recognised two distinct types of chloroplast morphology and at the same time an altered distribution of FtsZ. One type was a giant chloroplast containing short filaments and multiple dots (Fig. 4D, two right panels), similar to those observed in the petioles of atminE1 (Fig. 4A), and another type was a comparatively small and thin chloroplast containing multiple rings or possible spiral(s) (Fig. 4D, left panels), similar to those observed in AtMinE1ox (Figs. 2 and 3). Note that the occurrence of the latter type of chloroplasts in atminE1 unexpectedly implies that AtMinE1 is dispensable in Z-ring formation in leaf epidermal chloroplasts, but not in mesophyll and petiole chloroplasts, and therefore, the tissue-dependent operation of the plastid MinDE system. Isolated FtsZ rings were found in largely expanded chloroplasts of the petiole (Fig. 4A), but were not observed in poorly expanded chloroplasts of the leaf epidermis (Fig. 4D). The heterogeneity of chloroplast shapes along with the altered configurations of FtsZ in leaf epidermal cells of the atminE1 plants (Fig. 4D) might imply that the simple application of the bacterial Min system model (Kruse et al. CITATION, Lutkenhaus CITATION, CITATION) is not sufficient when explaining the complex modes of chloroplast division. In our previous report (Fujiwara et al. CITATION), we proposed a hypothesis stating that the excessive expansion of chloroplast membranes might inhibit the completion of Z-ring-mediated chloroplast division, while it might not necessarily prevent the Z-ring assembly per se. Our hypothesis predicts that a population of heterogeneously sized chloroplasts would tend to split into two subpopulations: smaller and larger chloroplasts. Our results regarding the leaf epidermal cells in the atminE1 mutant (Fig. 4D) are at least partially in accordance with that prediction. It was previously reported that overexpression of AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 in A. thaliana results in chloroplast size heterogeneity, even within one cell, in the bundle sheath or the mesophyll, although this phenomenon was infrequent (8% of the transgenic plants) and uniformly enlarged chloroplasts were typically observed in most plants (Raynaud et al. CITATION). In addition, Jeong et al. (CITATION) reported the similar chloroplast phenotype in transgenic tobacco (N. tabacum) plants, in which NtFtsZ1-2 was overexpressed; these plants occasionally contained one gigantic chloroplast with several normal-sized chloroplasts in mature cells. Taken together, there might be a hidden threshold in chloroplast size, which determines whether organelle division is successfully completed. In the future, comprehensive examinations of FtsZ configurations within the plastids at various differentiation and developmental states should be carried out in AtMinE1ox, atminE1 and other A. thaliana mutants, transgenics and the wild type. These examinations should provide us with more information concerning the assembly of the functional Z-rings and their intermediary structures, which are presumably the FtsZ dots, short filaments and spirals, upon plastid division.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. accession Columbia was used as the wild-type plant. A transgenic AtMinE1-overexpressing line (mEs #02, Columbia background; Itoh et al. CITATION) of A. thaliana expressing the gene in the sense orientation under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter was also used. A T-DNA insertional mutant of AtMinE1, Flag_056G07 (DLFTV7T3, Wassilewskija background), was obtained from the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA, Versailles, France; Samson et al. CITATION). A recessive accumulation and replication of chloroplasts 11 (arc11) mutant (arc11-1, Landsberg erecta background; Marrison et al. CITATION), was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Stock Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA). Transgenic A. thaliana lines, which express full-length AtFtsZ1-1/GFP fusion under the control of a 1.6-kb upstream genomic sequence of AtFtsZ1-1, were generated as described in Fujiwara et al. (CITATION). By crossing with these transformants, the AtFtsZ1–GFP transgene was introduced into the nuclear genome of the AtMinE1 overexpressor, the atminE1 mutant, or the arc11-1 mutant plants, also as described (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). A transgenic A. thaliana line, which expresses non-fused GFP under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, was generated by Agrobacterium- mediated stable transformation (Clough and Bent CITATION) using the binary vector pBI121 (Toyobo, Tokyo, Japan) with an inserted GFP gene, and was applied as a control sample in Western blotting with anti-GFP antibodies (see below). These plant seeds were surface-sterilised with 70% (v/v) ethanol, 1% (w/v) sodium hypochlorite and 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20 and sown on soil (Golden Peatban, Sakata Seed, Yokohama, Japan) or on 0.7% (w/v) agar-containing Murashige–Skoog medium (Wako Jun-yaku, Osaka, Japan) supplemented with Gamborg’s B5 vitamins (Wako Jun-yaku) and 2% (w/v) sucrose. Unless otherwise specified, the seeds were placed in the dark at 4°C for 3d, and then germinated and grown at 23°C under white light illumination (100 μE m−2·s−1) with a 16-h light, 8-h dark cycle. Whole plant organs were mounted under glass coverslips and observed under an epifluorescence microscope (IX70 [Olympus, Tokyo, Japan], equipped with a mercury lamp and a CCD digital camera ORCA-ER [Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu, Japan]) using 20 × N.A. 0.50, 60 × N.A. 1.20, 60 × N.A. 1.35 and 100 × N.A. 1.40 objective lenses (Olympus). GFP was detected with a YFP-type filter cube U-MYFPHQ (Olympus; excitation filter: 490–500 nm; emission filter: 515–560 nm). Chlorophyll autofluorescence was detected with a filter cube U-MWIG2 (Olympus; excitation filter: 520–550 nm; emission filter: >580 nm). Digital black-and-white images were processed using Adobe Photoshop CS2 (Adobe Systems Inc., San Jose, CA, USA) to obtain the final merged images. Approximately 50 mg of aerial parts from 2-week-old soil-grown A. thaliana plants were excised, placed in a 1.5 ml microtube containing 200 μl of ice-cold elution buffer (100 mM Tris–HCl [pH 8.0], 10% [v/v] glycerol, 0.5% [w/v] SDS, 2% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol) and ground with a micropestle. Aliquots of the homogenate corresponding to 10 μg of plant protein were mixed with an equal volume of 2 × sample buffer (125 mM Tris–HCl [pH 6.8], 20% [v/v] glycerol, 4% [w/v] SDS, 10% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.02% [w/v] bromophenol blue), and then boiled at 100°C for 2 min. The samples and a size marker Precision Plus Protein Standards (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) were fractionated using SDS-PAGE on a 7.5–15% gradient polyacrylamide gel (Laemmli CITATION) at 200 V for 1 h. Thereafter, the proteins in the gel were electrophoretically transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane (Trans-Blot Transfer Medium; Bio-Rad) using a Trans-Blot Electrophoretic Transfer Cell (Bio-Rad) at 100 V for 1 h. Successful transfer and equal loading of the protein samples were checked by staining the blotted membranes with Ponceau S. For immunological detection of GFP, mouse monoclonal anti-GFP clone GF200 (Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) was used as the primary antibody at a dilution of 1 : 1000. As a control for equal loading, the mouse monoclonal anti-actin clone C4 (ICN Biomedicals, Aurora, OH, USA) was used as the primary antibody at a dilution of 1:400. We used the horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-mouse IgG polyclonal antibody (GE Healthcare, Fairfield, CT, USA) at a dilution of 1:2000 as the secondary antibody. HRP-derived chemiluminescence signals were detected using ECL Western Blotting Detection Reagents (GE Healthcare).
