!~ABS~! DNA methylation is a conserved epigenetic mark in plants and mammals. In Arabidopsis, DNA methylation can be triggered by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) through an RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway. Here, we report the identification of an RdDM effector, KTF1. Loss-of-function mutations in KTF1 reduce DNA methylation and release the silencing of RdDM target loci without abolishing the siRNA triggers. KTF1 has similarity to the transcription elongation factor SPT5 and contains a C-terminal extension rich in GW/WG repeats. KTF1 colocalizes with ARGONAUTE 4 (AGO4) in punctate nuclear foci and binds AGO4 and RNA transcripts. Our results suggest KTF1 as an adaptor protein that binds scaffold transcripts generated by Pol V and recruits AGO4 and AGO4-bound siRNAs to form an RdDM effector complex. The dual interaction of an effector protein with AGO and small RNA target transcripts may be a general feature of RNA-silencing effector complexes.
!~RES~! Loss-of-function mutations in the DNA demethylase ROS1 cause transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) of the stress-responsive RD29A promoter-driven luciferase (RD29A-LUC) transgene, the endogenous RD29A gene, and the CaMV 35S promoter-driven NPTII (35S-NPTII) kanamycin resistance transgene that is physically linked to the RD29A-LUC transgene (CITATION). The silencing of the 35S-NPTII and RD29A-LUC transgenes is indicated by plant sensitivity to kanamycin and loss of luminescence, respectively. To identify components mediating TGS in ros1, we screened a T-DNA-mutagenized population in the ros1 background, based on reactivation of luminescence from RD29A-LUC (CITATION). Two allelic mutants, rdm3-1 and rdm3-2 (for RNA-directed DNA methylation 3), were characterized in this study. CITATIONA shows the luminescence phenotypes of the wild-type, ros1, ros1rdm3-1, and ros1rdm3-2. Like the wild-type, both ros1rdm3-1 and ros1rdm3-2 emitted strong luminescence after cold treatment, whereas ros1 emitted little or no luminescence. The result shows that the silencing of RD29A-LUC in ros1 was suppressed by the rdm3 mutations. However, the kanamycin sensitivity of ros1rdm3-1 and ros1rdm3-2 was similar to that of ros1, which indicated that the silencing of 35S-NPTII in ros1 was not suppressed by the rdm3 mutations. The ros1rdm3-1 and ros1rdm3-2 double mutants were crossed to ros1 (CITATIONA). The F1 plants emitted as little luminescence as the ros1 plants, but the F2 progenies segregated ∼3:1 for ros1:ros1rdm3 luminescence phenotypes, suggesting that the rdm3-1 and rdm3-2 mutations were recessive and that each mutation was in a single nuclear gene (data not shown). We crossed ros1rdm3-1 plants to the wild-type and identified the rdm3-1 single mutants. Interestingly, rdm3-1 plants emitted stronger luminescence than the wild-type (CITATIONA and S1B available online). The result is consistent with the presence of a low level of TGS of the RD29A-LUC transgene in the wild-type (CITATION) and suggests that RDM3 is required for this TGS. As reported previously (CITATION), the mRNA levels of the endogenous RD29A, RD29A-LUC, and NPTII transgenes were dramatically reduced by the ros1 mutation. In ros1rdm3-1, the mRNA levels of both the endogenous RD29A and the RD29A-LUC transgene were substantially higher than those in ros1 (CITATIONB). In contrast, the mRNA level of the NPTII transgene in ros1rdm3-1 mutant was undetectable, as it was in ros1, which is consistent with the kanamycin-sensitive phenotype of the ros1rdm3-1 and ros1 plants (CITATIONB). These results demonstrate that the rdm3 mutations suppress the TGS of the endogenous RD29A gene and the RD29A-LUC transgene, but not the NPTII transgene in the ros1 mutant. To test whether the suppression of RD29A-LUC transgene silencing in the ros1rdm3-1 mutant correlates with loss of DNA hypermethylation, we analyzed the DNA methylation status of the RD29A promoter by bisulfite sequencing. The results show that both the endogenous and transgenic RD29A promoters were heavily methylated at cytosine residues in all sequence contexts (CG, CHG, and CHH; H represents A, T, or C) in the ros1 mutant, but the methylation was reduced in the ros1rdm3-1 mutant ( CITATIONA and 2B). The reductions were comparable to those in ros1nrpd1 and were particularly evident at CHG and CHH sites (CITATIONA and 2B). For example, at the transgenic RD29A promoter, the asymmetric CHH methylation was 8.9% in the wild-type, 15.2% in ros1, 4.5% in ros1rdm3-1, and 2.8% in ros1nrpd1 (CITATIONA). The methylation change at the endogenous RD29A promoter was also demonstrated by Southern hybridization (CITATIONA). Hypermethylation at the BstUI site of RD29A promoter in ros1 prevented the methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme from cleaving the promoter. The partial cleavage in ros1rdm3-1 and ros1nrpd1 by BstUI thus indicates a reduction in DNA methylation (CITATIONA). The results suggest that, like nrpd1, rdm3-1 suppresses the TGS in ros1 by preventing DNA hypermethylation at the RD29A promoter. The DNA methylation status of the highly repetitive 180 bp centromeric repeat, which is not controlled by RdDM, was analyzed by Southern hybridization. No difference in DNA methylation of the centromeric repeat was detected among wild-type, rdm3-3 (a T-DNA allele from Stock Center, in the Col-0 background; CITATIONA), and nrpe1-11 (nrpd1b-11) (CITATIONB). However, DNA methylation of 5S rDNA, an RdDM target locus, was reduced by the rdm3 mutations at all cytosine contexts, similar to the effects of nrpd1 and nrpe1 (CITATIONC and S2D). We then examined the methylation status of several other well-characterized RdDM target loci, including AtSN1, MEA-ISR, AtMU1 and AtGP1. Bisulfite sequencing was used to examine DNA methylation at AtSN1, a retroelement, and at MEA-ISR, a subtelomeric repeat sequence present downstream of the MEA gene. The results show that, in the wild-type plants, AtSN1 was heavily methylated with 66.1% of cytosine methylation at CG sites, 52.0% at CHG, and 5.2% at CHH but that the methylation levels were reduced to 50.0%, 14.3%, and 1.2%, respectively, in the rdm3-3 mutant. This effect of the rdm3-3 mutation on AtSN1 methylation was similar to that of nrpe1 (CITATIONC). Our bisulfite sequencing results also revealed that the DNA methylation level at MEA-ISR was reduced in rdm3-3, as it was in nrpe1, compared to that in the wild-type (CITATIOND). The reduced methylation in rdm3 mutants at CHH sites of AtSN1 was further tested by digestion with the methylation-sensitive enzyme HaeIII, followed by PCR. CITATIONE shows that AtSN1 was heavily methylated in wild-type and ros1 and was thus resistant to HaeIII cleavage, but the methylation was much reduced in ros1rdm3-1, ros1nrpd1, and ros1nrpe1 (CITATIONE). For analysis of the DNA methylation of AtGP1 and AtMU1, the methylated DNA-digesting enzyme McrBC was applied, followed by PCR (CITATION). The results show that, like the nrpd1 and nrpe1 mutations, rdm3-1 reduced the DNA methylation of AtGP1 and AtMU1 (CITATIONE). The effect of rdm3 on DNA methylation at AtSN1, AtGP1, and AtMU1 was confirmed by examining the rdm3-3 allele (CITATIONA). Moreover, the methylation status of AtMU1 at CHH sites was further tested by Southern hybridization, which showed that three HaeIII undigested bands in the wild-type were mostly digested in rdm3-3, nrpd1, and nrpe1, confirming the reduced AtMU1 methylation in rdm3 (CITATIONF). Taken together, our results show that rdm3 mutations reduce DNA methylation at RdDM target sites and that the effect was similar to that of mutations in known RdDM components, such as nrpd1, nrpe1, rdr2, dcl3, and ago4. The above results suggest that RDM3 is required for DNA methylation at specific genomic loci. By semiquantitative RT-PCR, we tested whether the reduction of DNA methylation at AtSN1, AtGP1, and AtMU1 in rdm3 mutant plants resulted in elevated transcript levels from these loci. The AtSN1 transcript level was compared among the wild-type Col-0, rdm3-3, nrpd1, and nrpe1 mutant plants. The results show that a very low level of AtSN1 transcript was detected in the Col-0 wild-type but that the transcript level was drastically increased in rdm3-3, as well as in nrpd1 and nrpe1 ( CITATIONA). Similarly, AtGP1 and AtMU1 had very low transcript levels in the wild-type and ros1, but the transcript levels were substantially increased in ros1rdm3-1, as well as in ros1nrpd1 and ros1nrpe1 (CITATIONA). The results suggest that loss of DNA methylation caused by the rdm3 mutations leads to a release of TGS at the RdDM target loci. Our previous studies suggested that 24 nt siRNAs from the RD29A promoter are the trigger for TGS of RD29A-LUC and endogenous RD29A in ros1 (CITATION). To determine whether rdm3 mutations affect siRNA accumulation, we carried out small RNA blot analysis and found that the rdm3-1 mutation has no effect on the accumulation of 24 nt RD29A promoter siRNAs, whereas nrpd1 blocks the siRNAs and nrpe1 partially reduces them (CITATIONB). The results indicate a role for RDM3 that is downstream of siRNA production in the RdDM pathway. We also tested the effect of rdm3 on endogenous siRNAs from several other RdDM target loci, including AtSN1, 5S rDNA, Cluster 4, AtGP1, and AtMU1 (CITATIONB and CITATIONB). The siRNA1003 from 5S rDNA was not affected in ros1rdm3-1, although it was blocked in ros1nrpd1 and partially reduced in ros1nrpe1. The siRNAs from AtGP1, AtMU1, and Cluster 4 were mostly unaffected in ros1rdm3-1 and ros1nrpe1, although they were eliminated in ros1nrpd1 (CITATIONB). The AtGP1, AtMU1, 5S rDNA, and Cluster 4 siRNA results were further confirmed in rdm3-3 (CITATIONB). In addition, AtSN1 siRNAs and siRNA02 were not reduced by the rdm3-3 mutation (CITATIONB). The 21 nt miRNA171 and ta-siRNA siRNA255 were also tested, and the results show that the rdm3 mutations had no effect on either of them (CITATIONB and CITATIONB). These results suggest that RDM3 acts in the RdDM pathway downstream of siRNA production, and thus, like NRPE1 (Pol V), RDM3 can be considered as an effector of RdDM. To further delineate the role of RDM3 in the RdDM pathway, we tested whether RDM3 is required for the accumulation of Pol V-dependent transcripts (CITATION). Pol V-dependent transcripts at IGN5, IGN6, and AtSN1 loci (intervals B and C) were still detectable in the rdm3-3 mutant (CITATIONC). In fact, the IGN5 transcript level was slightly increased in rdm3-3 (CITATIONC). Pol II and Pol III transcripts at the solo LTR and AtSN1 (interval A) loci, respectively, were upregulated in nrpe1 and were also upregulated in the rdm3-3 mutant (CITATIONC). The RD29A promoter generates 24 nt siRNAs and is targeted by the RdDM pathway for silencing (CITATION). We found that the RD29A promoter also generated an RNA transcript that requires NRPE1 (CITATIOND). This Pol V-dependent RD29A promoter transcript was present in ros1rdm3-1, as well as in ros1 and the wild-type (CITATIOND). Collectively, these data suggest that RDM3 affects RdDM at a step downstream, or independent, of Pol V transcription. To clone the RDM3 gene, we used TAIL-PCR to determine the T-DNA insertion site in the ros1rdm3-1 mutant and found a single T-DNA insertion in the first intron of AT5G04290 (CITATIONA). In the ros1rdm3-2 mutant, we found a 61 bp deletion in the seventh exon of AT5G04290 (CITATIONA). We obtained the rdm3-3 mutant from the SALK collection (Salk_001254), which has a T-DNA insertion in the tenth exon of AT5G04290 (CITATIONA). In rdm3-3, DNA methylation was dramatically reduced at several tested genomic loci, including AtSN1, AtGP1, AtMU1, 5S rDNA, and MEA-ISR (CITATIONC, 2D, 2F, CITATIONC, S2D, CITATIONC, and CITATIONA). These multiple mutations indicate that AT5G04290 is the RDM3 gene. AT5G04290 was annotated as KTF1 (KOW domain-containing transcription factor 1) (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?id=136799&type=gene). The identity of the RDM3 gene was confirmed by complementation tests in which introduction of a KTF1 genomic fragment from the wild-type restored the silencing of RD29A-LUC and AtSN1 methylation in ros1rdm3-1 and rdm3-3 (CITATIONB and S3C). A cDNA containing the entire open reading frame of KTF1 was cloned. Based on the sequence of the cloned cDNA, the KTF1 gene contains 18 exons (CITATIONA) and encodes a protein of 1476 amino acid residues ( CITATIONA). This differs from the computational gene structure prediction on the TAIR website (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?id=136799&type=gene). RT-PCR assays showed that the three rdm3 mutations blocked the accumulation of full-length KTF1 transcripts (CITATIONA). Western blot analysis revealed a lack of the KTF1 protein in ros1rdm3-1 and rdm3-3 mutant plants (CITATIONB). These results suggest that the three rdm3 mutants are null alleles. The KTF1 protein is highly similar to the SPT5 family of transcription elongation factors in its N-terminal region (CITATIONA). SPT5 is an essential gene conserved in all eukaryotes and is known to play both positive and negative roles in transcription elongation (CITATION). SPT5 proteins contain an acidic domain at the N-terminal region in addition to NusG and KOW domains and C-terminal repeats (CITATION). KTF1 lacks an acidic N terminus, and its C-terminal region is different from that of SPT5 proteins, so its similarity to SPT5 proteins is restricted to the NusG and KOW domains. Phylogenetic analysis shows that KTF1 and its orthologs from other plants, including rice and grape, are more closely related to SPT5 orthologs from plants and animals than to SPT5 proteins from yeasts (CITATIONB). Consistent with a role of KTF1 in RdDM, KTF1 contains a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) near the N terminus (CITATIONA). The long C-terminal region of KTF1 is characterized by more than 40 WG-containing repeats (CITATIONA). A large number of WG/GW repeats are also present in the C-terminal region of the largest subunit of Pol V, NRPE1, and in GW182 and related proteins in metazoans (CITATION). The fission yeast Tas3 protein also contains several WG/GW repeats (CITATION). WG/GW-containing sequences are not conserved beyond the defining WG/GW core pattern, even between orthologous proteins. However, part of the WG repeat region of KTF1 is similar to the WG repeat region in Tas3, including residues surrounding the WG sequences (CITATIONC). There are 42 WG repeats in KTF1, and most of them are clustered in the C-terminal region of the protein as diagrammed in CITATIONA. As in NRPE1 (CITATION), the WG repeat domain in KTF1 is highly hydrophilic and rich in G, S, D, K, and W (CITATION). The WG repeats are concentrated in two subdomains in the C-terminal region of KTF1, which are designated WG-1 and WG-2 (CITATIONA); WG-1 has seven highly conserved WG repeats, and WG-2 has 15 such repeats (CITATIOND). Recently, it was discovered that WG/GW repeats in Arabidopsis NRPE1, animal GW182 (CITATIONA) and its paralogs, and the fission yeast Tas3 serve as AGO-binding motifs (CITATION). To determine whether the C-terminal WG repeat region of KTF1 can provide binding sites for AGO4, we generated GST-KTF1 fusion constructs (GST-KTF1-P1, -P2, and -P3) and produced truncated versions of KTF1 (CITATIONB). The C-terminal region of NRPE1 was used as a positive control (NRPE1-CTD; CITATIONB). The bacterially produced GST fusion proteins were purified (CITATIONC) and used to capture Myc-AGO4 from the crude protein extracts from Myc-AGO4 transgenic plants. Myc-AGO4 was captured by all three versions of truncated KTF1 proteins from the C-terminal region, as well as by NRPE1-CTD, but was not captured by the two truncated KTF1 proteins (KTF1-NusG and KTF1-KOW) from the conserved NusG and KOW domains (CITATIOND). As expected, Myc-AGO4 was not captured by the negative control protein, GST (CITATIOND). Because RNase was present in the binding assay, the capture of Myc-AGO4 by the GST fusion proteins (GST-KTF1-P1, -P2, and -P3) was probably due to direct interactions between AGO4 and the truncated KTF1 proteins rather than indirect interactions mediated by scaffold RNA transcripts. We also used anti-Myc antibodies to capture bacterially purified GST-KTF1-P1 and GST-NRPE1-CTD after mixing the recombinant proteins with crude protein extracts from Myc-AGO4-transgenic plants. The result shows that GST-KTF1-P1 and GST-NRPE1-CTD, but not GST, were captured by the Myc antibodies (CITATIONE). These results demonstrate that KTF1 and AGO4 interact in vitro and that only a few WG repeats from KTF1 are sufficient for the interaction because KTF1-P3 contains only four WG/GW repeats. In the fission yeast Tas3 protein, one or two WG repeats are sufficient for binding to Ago1 (CITATION). Nevertheless, KTF1-NusG and KTF1-KOW did not interact with AGO4, although the truncated proteins have one and two WG motifs, respectively (CITATIONB and 4D). Perhaps the hydrophilic amino acid residues in the WG repeat domain of KTF1 are also required for AGO4 interaction. We performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments to test whether KTF1 interacts with AGO4 in vivo. Myc-AGO4 was detected in KTF1 immunoprecipitates from Myc-AGO4-transgenic plants (CITATIONF). Likewise, KTF1 was detected in Myc-AGO4 immunoprecipitates (CITATIONG). The result suggests that KTF1 and AGO4 interact in vivo. To visualize the subnuclear localization of KTF1, we performed immunostaining in interphase nuclei using antibodies specific for KTF1. In 100% of labeled nuclei (n = 123), KTF1 immunosignals show distinct nucleoplasmic foci but no nucleolar localization in wild-type leaves ( CITATIONA). In the rdm3-1 mutant, the signal intensity is strongly reduced (CITATIONA, 100% of the nuclei, n = 97), confirming that the KTF1 antibody is specific. In order to determine whether KTF1 might be associated with AGO4 and Pol V in vivo in the nucleus, we performed coimmunolocalization experiments using antibody against the native KTF1 protein and transgenic lines expressing NRPE1-Flag and Myc-AGO4. Both NRPE1 and AGO4 are localized to the nucleoplasm but also display an intense, round-shaped nucleolar signal (CITATIONB) as described previously (CITATION). The merging of KTF1 and AGO4 signals showed a similar distribution pattern and colocalization in the same nucleoplasmic sites, but not in the nucleolus, as indicated by the yellow signals (CITATIONB) in most of the cells (81%, n = 147). With respect to KTF1 and NRPE1, the majority of cells (63%, n = 135) also showed a partial colocalization of the two proteins in the nucleoplasm, but not in the nucleolus or nucleolar periphery (CITATIONB). These colocalization results are consistent with a physical interaction between KTF1 and AGO4 in vivo in the nucleoplasm. There may also be an interaction between KTF1 and NRPE1, albeit to a lesser extent. In electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), the C-terminal region of KTF1 (i.e., KTF1-P1) displays an RNA-binding activity. KTF1-P1, but not GST, could bind to 40 nt single-stranded RNA corresponding to the RD29A promoter (part of the Pol V-dependent RD29A promoter transcript) (CITATIONA). Interestingly, KTF1-P3, but not KTF1-P2, was also capable of binding to the RNA ( CITATIONA). Because KTF1-P2 contains many more WG repeats than does KTF1-P3, the results indicate that WG repeats are not responsible for RNA binding. KTF1-P1 and KTF1-P3, but not GST or KTF1-P2, also bound to a 24 nt RNA, which corresponds to part of the 40 nt RNA (CITATIONB). Similarly, KTF1-P3, but not GST or KTF1-P2, was capable of binding to a 21 nt RNA (CITATIONC). Very strong binding was observed for KTF1-P3 to 500 nt RNA corresponding to the RD29A promoter (CITATIONB). KTF1-P3 was capable of binding to not only the 40 nt RNA, but also to its complementary RNA (CITATIONC). These results show that KTF1 can bind RNAs of various sizes and that the binding is not sequence or strand specific. KTF1-P3 bound to the 40 nt Pol V transcript in a dose-dependent manner (CITATIOND). The binding was reduced or blocked by competition with unlabeled RNA of the same sequence (CITATIOND). KTF1-P3 did not bind to 40 nt DNA of the same sequence as the RNA (CITATIONE). Furthermore, KTF1-P3 specifically bound to the 40 nt single-stranded RNA and did not bind to the corresponding double-stranded RNA (CITATIONF). To test whether KTF1 may be associated with Pol V transcripts in vivo, RNA immunoprecipitation was carried out using anti-KTF1 antibodies. The Pol V-dependent transcript from the RD29A promoter was detected in the KTF1 immunoprecipitate from ros1, but not from ros1rdm3-1 (CITATIONE). No signal was detected in ros1 or ros1rdm3-1 following precipitation in the absence of the anti-KTF1 antibody. Taken together, the results suggest that KTF1 can bind to the Pol V-dependent RD29A promoter transcript in vitro and in vivo.
!~MM~! The wild-type C24 and the ros1 mutant plants carry a homozygous stress-responsive RD29A-LUC transgene (CITATION). A T-DNA mutagenized population in the ros1 background was generated as described previously (CITATION). Screening for ros1 suppressors and isolation of T-DNA-tagged gene by TAIL-PCR (rdm3-1) and of untagged gene (rdm3-2) by map-based cloning were as described previously (CITATION). An ∼8.8 kb KTF1 genomic fragment was amplified from Col-0 wild-type plants and cloned into the Gateway vector PMDC164 for complementation assay in ros1rdm3-1 and rdm3-3. The DNA methylation status was analyzed by Chop-PCR, Southern hybridization, and bisulfite sequencing. For Chop-PCR, genomic DNA (500 ng) was digested with the methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme HaeIII overnight or the methylated DNA-digesting enzyme McrBC for 1 hr. The digested DNA was used to amplify the RdDM targets, including AtSN1, AtGP1, and AtMU1. The undigested genomic DNA was simultaneously amplified as controls. Southern hybridization and bisulfite sequencing were carried out as described in CITATION. RNA blot assays were carried out as described in CITATION. The sequences of DNA oligo probes and primers for probe amplification are listed in CITATION. For semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis, we extracted total RNA from flowers using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). After contaminating DNA was removed by DNase, 5 μg of total RNA was used for synthesis of cDNA with SuperScript III (Invitrogen). The cDNA reaction mixture was diluted and used for RT-PCR. The PCR conditions were: 95°C for 5 min followed by 28–35 amplification cycles (95°C for 30 s, 56°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min). The constitutively expressed TUB8 was used as an internal control. Primers used in RT-PCR are listed in CITATION. Conditions and primers for RT-PCR analysis of Pol V-dependent transcripts are as described in CITATION. The NRPE1-CTD (1410–1874 aa) and the five truncated forms of KTF1 (1104–1476 aa; 1104–1310 aa; 1304–1476 aa; 151–368 aa; and 335–753 aa) were amplified and cloned into bacterial expression vector pGEX4T1 (Invitrogen). The constructs were transformed into E. coli-competent cells BL21 for expression. The GST fusion proteins were purified by glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham) and used for binding assays as described previously (CITATION). In brief, a total of 150 μl of protein extract from flowers was added to the GST fusion protein beads (in bacterial protein extraction buffer containing DNase and RNase) and incubated at 4°C for 3 hr. The bound proteins were eluted with SDS-PAGE sample buffer after the beads were washed with IP buffer three times. Anti-Myc-conjugated agarose (Upstate) was used for immunoprecipitating Myc-AGO4 complexes from cell lysates mixed with purified GST fusion proteins at 4°C for 3 hr. The immunoprecipitated protein was eluted with SDS-PAGE sample buffer. All of the eluted protein was subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE gel for western blotting. One gram of flowers from Myc-AGO4 transgenic plants (CITATION), as well as from the wild-type plants, was used for preparation of cell lysates with 2 ml of protein extraction buffer. Equal amounts of crude protein extracts were precleared with protein A agarose beads (Sigma), followed by anti-KTF1 or anti-Myc incubation. The immunoprecipitated protein complexes were captured with protein A agarose beads, washed five times with the extraction buffer, and eluted by boiling the beads in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. The eluted sample was resolved by 8% SDS-PAGE for western blotting. Anti-KTF1 antibodies were generated by injecting rabbits with purified recombinant KTF1 protein (KTF1-P3) and were purified by affinity chromatography using KTF1-conjugated beads. Interphase nuclei were isolated as described by CITATION. Nuclei preparations were postfixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and incubated overnight at 4°C with primary antibodies for KTF1 (1:50), anti-Flag (1:200, Sigma), or anti-cMyc (1:200, Chemicon). Secondary antibodies anti-rabbit Alexa 488 (Invitrogen) and anti-mouse Alexa 594 (Invitrogen) were diluted at 1:200 in PBS and incubated for 4 hr at 37°C. DNA was counterstained with 1 μg/ml DAPI in Prolong Gold mounting medium (Invitrogen). The nuclei preparations were analyzed with a Nikon Eclipse E80i epifluorescence microscope equipped with a Photometrics Coolsnap ES Mono digital camera. Images were acquired by the Phylum software and pseudocolored and merged in Adobe Photoshop. NRPE1-CTD and various truncated forms of KTF1 cDNA were cloned into the pGEX4T1 vector (Invitrogen) for GST fusion constructs. The constructs were transformed into E. coli strain BL21 (Invitrogen) for protein expression. The GST fusion protein was purified by glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham) and used for electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). For the binding assay, single-stranded RNA or DNA probes were directly synthesized and end labeled with T4 polynucleotide kinase and γ-32P-ATP, and the 500 nt single-stranded RNA probe was generated from the RD29A promoter sequence using an in vitro transcription-labeling kit (Ambion). All of the probes used for binding assays were purified using 50 G columns (Biolab). The binding reaction included 2 μl of labeled RNA or DNA probes, 0.5 μg of GST fusion protein, 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.6), 50 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA (pH 8.0), 12.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.5% (w/v) BSA, and 5% (w/v) glycerol. Reactions were incubated at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixtures were resolved on 4% nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel following electrophoresis at 200 V for 2 hr. Gels were dried and exposed to X-Ray film for analysis. The ros1 and ros1rdm3-1 were subjected to RNA immunoprecipitation with anti-KTF1 antibodies, following the method of CITATION.
