!~ABS~! A major determinant of flowering time in natural Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) variants is FRIGIDA (FRI). FRI up-regulates expression of the floral repressor FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), thereby conferring a vernalization requirement and a winter annual habit. FRI encodes a novel nuclear protein with no conserved domains except for two coiled-coil regions. A mutation in the large subunit of the nuclear cap-binding complex (CBC) suppresses FRI activity, so we have explored the connection between FRI and the nuclear CBC in order to gain further insight into FRI biochemical activity. Mutations in the small subunit of the CBC (CBP20) also suppress FRI up-regulation of FLC. CBP20 interacted directly with FRI in yeast and in planta, and this association of FRI with the 5′ cap was reinforced by an RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends assay that showed FRI decreased the proportion of FLC transcripts lacking a 5′ cap. Loss of CBP20 resulted in very low FLC mRNA levels and an increased proportion of unspliced FLC transcripts. FRI compensated for CBP20 loss, partially restoring FLC levels and normalizing the unspliced-spliced transcript ratio. Our data suggest that FRI up-regulates FLC expression through a cotranscriptional mechanism involving direct physical interaction with the nuclear CBC with concomitant effects on FLC transcription and splicing.
!~RES~! Analysis of suppressors of FRI had revealed that the large subunit of the CBC, CBP80, was needed for FRI to up-regulate FLC transcript levels (CITATION). Therefore, we investigated if the small subunit of the CBC, CBP20, was also required for the activity of FRI. The cbp20 mutant has been previously described as conferring drought tolerance in Arabidopsis and having a serrated leaf phenotype (CITATION). cbp20 was crossed to a Col FRI line, and homozygous FRI cbp20 individuals were identified. The Col FRI line had been generated by recurrent (nine generations) backcrossing of a Landsberg erecta line transformed with a genomic clone carrying an active FRI allele (called JU223 in CITATION) to Col. FRI cbp20 flowered much earlier than FRI CBP20 (Fig. 1A ) but still showed the serrated leaf phenotype typical of cbp20 (Supplemental Fig. S1), and this early flowering was associated with reduced FLC RNA levels (Fig. 1B). Therefore, the cbp20 mutation does suppress FRI up-regulation of FLC. To ascertain how specific the cbp20 suppression was to FRI function, we also analyzed the effect of cbp20 on fca-9-dependent late flowering. fca-9 cbp20 plants flowered much earlier than fca-9 (Supplemental Fig. S2). Thus, cbp20, like cbp80, falls into the group of FRI suppressors that suppress both FRI and autonomous pathway functions. [[FIGURE]] As cbp20 suppressed FRI function, we explored if there was a physical interaction between FRI and CBP20. A full-length CBP20 protein interacted with a full-length FRI protein in a yeast two-hybrid analysis (Supplemental Fig. S3) but did not interact with proteins required to mediate vernalization, for example, VRN1, VRN2, VRN5, and VIN3, or autonomous pathway components, for example FCA or FY (data not shown). The interaction with CBP20 was confirmed using coimmunoprecipitation assays following Nicotiana benthamiana transient expression experiments using FRI-FLAG- and CPP20-HA-tagged proteins (Fig. 2 ). Unrelated FLAG- and HA-tagged proteins did not interact under our assay conditions (S. Marquardt and C. Dean, unpublished data). Since mutations in the FRI homolog FRL1 have also been found to suppress FRI up-regulation of FLC (CITATION), we also investigated the interaction of FRI and FRL1 in yeast. Previous studies had suggested that FRI and FRL1 did not interact in yeast (CITATION; CITATION); however, we found that FRI interacted with FRL1 in two different yeast strains, albeit less strongly than CBP20 (Supplemental Fig. S3). To identify additional proteins that interact with FRI, a yeast two-hybrid screen was carried out and two interacting proteins, FRIGIDA-INTERACTING PROTEIN1 (FIP1; At2g06005) and FIP2 (At4g17060), were found, FIP1 interacting more weakly than FIP2 (Supplemental Fig. S3). There is one close homolog of FIP1 in the Arabidopsis genome (At5g20580), but otherwise FIP1 and FIP2 show no strong homology to each other or to other proteins in the current databases. A ClustalW analysis suggests that FIP2 shows very weak homology to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae NUP protein, a subunit of the nuclear pore complex. T-DNA insertions into the FIP1 and FIP2 genes were identified, and the loss-of-function alleles were crossed to Col FRI. The flowering time of plants homozygous for the T-DNA and FRI was found to be the same as that of the Col FRI parent (data not shown), so unlike FRL1, CBP20, and CBP80, loss of FIP1 and FIP2 is not sufficient to disrupt FRI up-regulation of FLC. [[FIGURE]] Suppression of FRI up-regulation of FLC by components of the nuclear CBC and direct interaction of FRI and CBP20 led us to analyze whether FRI affects the proportion of FLC transcript that carries a 5′ cap. This was achieved using an assay based on 5′ RACE-PCR after ligation of an RNA adaptor (CITATION). Only RNAs lacking a 5′ cap have the necessary phosphate group for the ligation step. RNA extracted from young seedlings of Col-0 and Col FRI was compared using β-TUBULIN as an internal control for RNA quantity and the levels of uncapped mRNA (Fig. 3 ). An additional control was made by removing the 5′ cap from all of the mRNAs in Col-0 and Col FRI before ligation with the RNA adaptor. The result shows that Col FRI has much higher levels of FLC than Col-0, with β- TUBULIN levels unaffected (Supplemental Fig. S4). Cloning and sequencing of the 683-bp major PCR fragment confirmed that it corresponded to the FLC transcript, with the sequence starting in the 5′ RNA adapter and ending at the 3′ end of the FLC-specific primer. The absence of FRI led to an increase (approximately 4-fold) in the specific FLC fragment in Col-0 (fri), supporting the conclusion that FRI increases the proportion of FLC transcript that contains a 5′cap (Fig. 3). This effect appears to be specific to FRI and not just due to high levels of FLC RNA. fca-9 and fld-4 seedlings, which have levels of FLC comparable to FRI+ plants (CITATION), showed levels of uncapped FLC RNA equivalent to Col-0 (Fig. 3C). Col FRI and Col-0 plants were also vernalized and the assay repeated. Vernalization did not appear to antagonize FRI action by affecting levels of uncapped FLC mRNA (Supplemental Fig. S5). [[FIGURE]] We next analyzed the effect of mutations in the FRI interactors on FLC capping using the same ligation-mediated PCR assay. Consistent with their suppression of FRI up-regulation of FLC, cbp20 and frl1 mutations suppressed the FRI reduction in FLC RNA lacking a 5′ cap (Fig. 4 ; Supplemental Fig. S6). fip1 and fip2, in contrast, did not (Supplemental Fig. 6), reinforcing the correlation between an influence on the 5′ FLC cap and an ability to suppress FRI function. [[FIGURE]] The presence of a 5′ cap structure has previously been shown to protect RNA from degradation by 5′-3′ exonucleases (CITATION), such as the cytoplasmically localized XRN4 in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To investigate whether the influence of FRI on the FLC 5′ cap was through changed RNA stability, we analyzed FLC levels in fri and FRI plants carrying xrn4-1. xrn4-1 increased FLC levels in both fri (Landsberg erecta) seedlings and FRI+ genotypes, interacting additively with FRI (Fig. 5 ). This was also true when fca-9 was combined with xrn4. Thus, it seems that FRI and FCA function in genetically independent pathways to XRN4 to regulate FLC. xrn4 increased FLC levels, suggesting that there is a significant proportion of XRN4-accessible FLC message in the cytoplasm that is degraded by XRN4 activity. [[FIGURE]] The function of the nuclear CBC is intimately connected with messenger ribonucleoprotein assembly and transcript splicing in many organisms (CITATION). CBP20 and CBP80 have also recently been shown to have dual roles in splicing of many transcripts and miRNA processing in Arabidopsis, with many partially spliced transcripts being found in CBC mutants, such as cbp20 (CITATION). In general, a single intron from each gene was retained in cbp20, with the splicing of the first introns appearing to be most sensitive to loss of CBC. Therefore, we developed a quantitative reverse transcription (Q-RT)-PCR assay to compare both spliced and unspliced FLC transcripts in wild-type and different mutant genotypes. The splicing of intron 3 was chosen to represent “spliced” FLC transcript, but we found similar data if intron 6 was assayed (data not shown). FRI clearly up-regulated both unspliced and spliced FLC transcripts, consistent with an effect on transcription. The cbp20 mutation had a much higher proportion, approximately 10-fold more, of unspliced to spliced FLC transcripts (approximately 22% in cbp20 compared with 2% in FRI and CBP20 plants; Fig. 6 ) but very low levels of FLC RNA. FRI, however, can somewhat compensate for CBP20 loss, partially restoring FLC levels and normalizing the unspliced-spliced FLC transcript ratio. FRI perhaps functions as part of an extended CBC, where the components can partially function for each other but where the intact complex is required for maximal integration of transcription and splicing. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants grown in soil, seeds were sown in plastic pots. Seeds were vernalized for 4 or 6 weeks immediately after sowing at 5°C, with an 8-h photoperiod (photosynthetically active radiation, 9.5 μmol m−2 s−1; red-far red ratio, 3.9). Nonvernalized plants were stratified for 2 d in the same conditions. Plants were subsequently moved from the cold to extended short days at 20°C in a controlled-environment room (Sanyo Gallenkamp) with a 16-h photoperiod (photosynthetically active radiation, 114 μmol m−2 s−1) composed of 10 h from 400-W Wotan metal halide lamps and 100-W tungsten halide lamps (red-far red ratio, 2.4) and a 6-h extension of exclusively tungsten halide lamps (red-far red ratio, 0.66). Young seedlings were transferred to trays with 40 cells of 2 × 2 cm. Flowering time was measured by counting total leaf number, which was scored as the number of rosette leaves plus cauline leaves. Plants grown on plates were sown aseptically in petri dishes containing GM medium. The cbp20 and xrn4 mutants were kind gifts from Dr. István Papp (Agricultural Biological Center, Pest, Hungary) and Robert Sablowski (John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK), respectively. RNA was isolated using a scaled-down protocol described by CITATION). For real-time Q-RT-PCR, total RNA was treated with TURBO DNA-free (Ambion), and 2 μg was reverse transcribed with SuperScript III (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was used at 0.25 μL per Q-PCR run in a 20-μL reaction volume using SYBR Green JumpStart Taq ReadyMix (Sigma) and an MJ Research Opticon2 instrument. Expression was normalized to β-TUBULIN6 using the comparative CT (threshold cycle) method. Primer sequences were as follows: 5′-AGCCAAGAAGACCGAACTCA-3′ and 5′-TTTGTCCAGCAGGTGACATC-3′ for spliced FLC, 5′-CGCAATTTTCATAGCCCTTG-3′ and 5′-CTTTGTAATCAAAGGTGGAGAGC-3′ for unspliced FLC, and 5′-GTCATCTGCAGTTGCGTCTT-3′ and 5′-GGTGAAGGAATGGACGAGAT-3′ for TUB6. For transient overexpression of Flag-FRI and HA-CBP20 in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, the Flag tag and HA tag, respectively, were fused N terminally to the FRI and CBP20 cDNA and cloned into pBIN61 (CITATION). Expression in N. benthamiana leaves and coimmunoprecipitation were performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, for coimmunoprecipitation, protein extracts were incubated with anti-Flag M2 agarose (Sigma; A2220). After washing, bound proteins were eluted and analyzed by western blotting. Detection of RNA 5′ ends was performed using the GeneRacer Kit (Invitrogen), without the initial decapping reaction, a protocol adapted from CITATION) and CITATION). After isolation of poly(A) RNA (Oligotex; Qiagen), the GeneRacer RNA oligonucleotide was ligated to exposed 5′ ends and RT reaction was carried out using an oligo(dT) primer. A total of 250 ng of poly(A) RNA was ligated to the RNA adaptor using 5 units of T4 RNA ligase at 37°C for 1 h, follow by removal of proteins from solution with phenol/chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. The RNA obtained was used for cDNA synthesis with 200 units of SuperScript III reverse transcriptase enzyme and used for PCR amplification using a Taq polymerase enzyme (Qiagen). A 10-cycle hot-start PCR was performed (94°C for 4 min followed by 10 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 68°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 90 s) using a primer specific for the GeneRacer RNA oligonucleotide (5′-CGACTGGAGCACGAGGACACTGA-3′) and an FLC-specific primer (5′-TGGGAGAGTCACCGGAAGATTGTCG-3′). The PCR products were purified with the QIAQuick PCR purification kit (Qiagen) and used as templates for a second 30-cycle hot-start PCR (94°C for 4 min and then 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 68°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 90 s) with GeneRacer 5′ nested primer (5′-ACATGGACTGAAGGAGTAGAAACGAG-3′) and FLC nested primer (5′-TCCATCTCAGCTTCTGCTCCCACATGA-3′) to decrease the nonspecific amplification. These PCR products were separated on a 1% agarose gel and transferred to a nylon filter (Hybond N+; Amersham) by Southern blotting. The cloning and sequencing of the most prominent PCR product (approximately 1 kb) confirmed that it corresponded to full-length FLC cDNA. Similar results (amplification of the full length FLC cDNA, with no detectable cleavage products) were obtained using the GeneRacer 5′ primer and a primer directed to the 3′ end of FLC. A nonamplified yeast library was generated using cDNA made from RNA extracted from Col FRI plants and cloned in pGBT9 (Stratagene). This was transformed into the yeast strain YRG2, and transformants were plated in the absence of Trp, Leu, and His (selective minimal medium) and incubated at 28°C for 6 d. The medium was supplemented with 20 mm 3-aminotriazole to reduce false positives from the leaky His promoter. Interactions were also analyzed in yeast strain PJ69. After 4 d of incubation at 28°C, yeast cells were observed on the selection plates containing synthetic dextrose medium lacking Leu, Trp, adenine, and His and grown until colonies had formed. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank data libraries under accession numbers NM_126614 (FIP1) and NM_117810 (FIP2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. cbp20 FRI shows leaf serrations. Supplemental Figure S2. cbp20 can suppress fca late-flowering phenotype. Supplemental Figure S3. Yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis reveals an interaction between FRI and FRL1 and two novel FRI interactors, FIP1 and FIP2. Supplemental Figure S4. FLClevels in Col-0 and Col FRI after the removal of the 5′ cap structure. Supplemental Figure S5. Vernalization effect on FLC transcripts lacking a 5′ cap structure in Col-0 and Col FRI. Supplemental Figure S6. Effect of FRI interactors on the level of uncapped FLC RNA. Supplemental Table S1. Ct (threshold cycle) values from the FLC and β-TUBULIN Q-PCR analysis.
