!~ABS~! The role of RNA metabolism in chromatin silencing is now widely recognized. We have studied the Arabidopsis RNA-binding protein FCA that down-regulates an endogenous floral repressor gene through a chromatin mechanism involving histone demethylase activity. This mechanism needs FCA to interact with an RNA 3′ processing/polyadenylation factor (FY/Pfs2p), but the subsequent events leading to chromatin changes are unknown. Here, we show that this FCA–FY interaction is required for general chromatin silencing roles where hairpin transgenes induce DNA methylation of an endogenous gene. We also show 2 conserved RNA processing factors, AtCPSF100 and AtCPSF160, but not FCA, are stably associated with FY in vivo and form a range of different-sized complexes. A hypomorphic fy allele producing a shorter protein, able to provide some FY functions but unable to interact with FCA, reduces abundance of some of the larger MW complexes. Suppressor mutants, which specifically disrupt the FY motif through which FCA interacts, also lacked these larger complexes. Our data support a model whereby FCA, perhaps after recognition of a specific RNA feature, transiently interacts with FY, an integral component of the canonical RNA 3′ processing machinery, changing the interactions of the different RNA processing components. These altered interactions would appear to be a necessary step in this RNA-mediated chromatin silencing.
!~RES~! FCA has been shown to have a widespread role in transgene-induced and transposon silencing in the Arabidopsis genome, potentially detecting aberrant transcripts and silencing the loci through DNA methylation (CITATION). FCA has also been shown to transcriptionally silence FLC through a histone demethylase activity conferred by FLD (CITATION). Because FY is required for FCA-mediated down-regulation of FLC, we asked whether FY also transcriptionally regulates FLC. As a proxy for transcriptional activity, we used an RT-qPCR assay to measure levels of unspliced FLC nascent transcript (ref. CITATION, FIG-REFA). Both unspliced and spliced levels of FLC accumulated to higher levels in the hypomorphic fy-2 allele compared with the parental Columbia line, similar to what was shown for fca-9 and fld-4 (CITATION). Thus, we conclude that FY, like FCA and FLD, regulates FLC expression cotranscriptionally. [[FIGURE]] We next analyzed whether FY plays a more general role in chromatin silencing by testing whether fy-2 mutants suppress silencing mediated by the SUC-PDS reporter, which has been shown to require FCA and FLD (CITATION, CITATION). In this assay, system, a hairpin complementary to parts of the phytoene desaturase (PDS) coding region is expressed specifically in the phloem and a silencing signal moves from the veins into the adjacent mesophyll tissue, where it silences the endogenous PDS causing photobleaching. We crossed the SUC-PDS transgene into the fy-2 mutant background and found that fy-2 partially suppresses the silencing of endogenous PDS to a similar extent as fca-9 (ref. CITATION, FIG-REFB). As in fca-9 mutants, we did not find an effect on the abundance of transgene derived sRNA in fy-2, suggesting that FY acts downstream of sRNA generation, possibly at the perception and/or interpretation of the silencing signal. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the DNA methylation at the endogenous PDS in dissected leaf material enriched for silenced tissue using bisulfite sequencing. SUC-PDS-mediated silencing is strongly suppressed and corresponding DNA methylation strongly decreased in mutants required for RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) such as the largest subunit of the plant-specific DNA polymerase IVa, nrpd1a. Thus, nrpd1a mutants were included as a control for loss of DNA methylation (FIG-REFC). As reported, symmetric CG methylation was unaffected by the SUC-PDS transgene, whereas asymmetric DNA methylation in both CNG and CHH sequence contexts was strongly induced by the presence of the transgene (FIG-REFC, ref. CITATION). In fy-2 mutants, CNG and CHH methylation were both strongly reduced (CNG: 31.6% in SUC-PDS compared with 19.9% in fy-2 SUC-PDS; CHH: 9.1% in SUC-PDS compared with 3.5% in fy-2 SUC-PDS; FIG-REF, Table S1). Consistent with weaker suppression of photobleaching in fy-2 compared with nrpd1a, asymmetric DNA methylation in fy-2 was decreased slightly less than in nrpd1a. The loss of DNA methylation in fy-2 is similar to what was described for fca (CITATION), suggesting that FY acts closely with FCA also in this system. fy-2 had no effects on transgene expression or on endogenous PDS expression in the absence of the hairpin transgene. It would, therefore, appear that PDS becomes a target for FY only after association of the endogenous gene/transcript with a silencing signal that has spread from an adjacent cell. To identify additional components working together with FY, we chose to undertake a tandem affinity purification (TAP) strategy (CITATION) and fused the CTAPi tag (CITATION) to the C terminus of an FY cDNA. This was then cloned between the FY promoter and 3′ region to generate a construct aimed at expressing FY at wild-type levels and expression pattern. This construct rescued the fy-2 mutant phenotype with regard to flowering time and FLC levels (Fig. S1). The individual steps of the FYTAP complex purification were monitored and optimized by Western blot analysis using FY-specific antibodies until a strong FY-positive signal was obtained in the final eluate (FIG-REFA). Extracts from these plants taken through the TAP protocol reproducibly showed enrichment of proteins ≈160, 100, and 80 kDa not detected in WT Col samples (FIG-REFB). The final eluate was then taken through LC-MS analysis that revealed multiple peptides not present in control samples corresponding to core RNA processing factors AtCPSF100 (At5g23880) and AtCPSF160 (At5g51660) (FIG-REFC, Table S2). FY, the tagged protein, was not represented by most tryptic fragments suggesting tight association of AtCPSF160 and CPSF100 with FY. [[FIGURE]] In yeast, the Arabidopsis FY homologue Pfs2p interacts with Ysh1p (homologous to the mammalian protein CPSF73), Fip1p and a protein of the CstF complex, RNA14p (homologous to mammalian CstF77) (CITATION). However, no peptides from these proteins were detected in our FYTAP complex purification. Our in vitro interaction analyses between AtCstF77 or AtCPSF73 and FY, FY yeast 2-hybrid screening, and an extensive pairwise yeast 2-hybrid interaction analysis between Arabidopsis 3′ RNA processing factors (CITATION) also failed to find the expected pairwise interactions between FY and other RNA processing components. However, FY has been found copurifying with AtCPSF100, CLPS3 (CITATION, CITATION) and other RNA processing factors in apparently distinct complexes. The FCA/FY interaction is well characterized in vitro and can be reproduced by using FCA/FY counterparts from other plant species (CITATION, CITATION). Furthermore, this interaction was instrumental to the cloning of FY (CITATION). We were therefore expecting to find FCA peptides in the FYTAP purification; however, none were detected. In addition, attempts to verify the FCA/FY interaction in vivo by direct coimmunoprecipitation using either FCA or FY as baits and reciprocal antibodies failed even when stringency criteria were reduced compared with the FYTAP purification. This could reflect different stringencies of methods to detect interactions or biological complexity not recapitulated in vitro. To provide further insight into in vivo protein interactions of FY, we used size exclusion chromatography to analyze the protein complexes containing RNA processing components. Western analysis of different fractions using the anti-TAP antibody revealed multiple FY complexes clearly differing in size (FIG-REF). The larger complexes were present in fractions corresponding to ≈800 kDa and the smaller ones in fractions corresponding to ≈500 kDa. This pattern of FY complexes was also found in nontransgenic Columbia extracts analyzed using the FY polyclonal antibody (FIG-REF), indicating it was not an artifact of using the tagged protein. Assaying the same blots with an anti-AtCPSF160 antibody (CITATION) revealed AtCPSF160 was present in a large range of fractions including those containing FY, supporting the notion that the multiple FY-containing complexes also contain other AtCPSF machinery (FIG-REF). An anti-AtCPSF100 antibody (CITATION) was used, but no signal was detected on the Western blots, so AtCPSF100 presence could not be assayed. [[FIGURE]] We next asked whether FCA could also be present in fractions carrying FY/AtCPSF160 complexes. The specific FCA antibody revealed FCA protein in fractions migrating at ≈200kDa, both in lines expressing a 35S-FCAγ transgene (CITATION) (FIG-REF) and wild-type plants. There did not appear to be any overlap between FY/AtCPSF160 containing fractions and those containing FCA. This is consistent with the results of our FYTAP purification where FCA was not detected and furthermore lends support to the hypothesis that the FCA/FY interaction in vivo may be regulated or transient. Analysis of null fy alleles showed that FY, like Pfs2, is an essential gene (CITATION). This is also the case for both FY interactors AtCPSF160 and AtCPSF100 (CITATION). However, all currently available fca alleles and hypomorphic fy alleles expressing the conserved N-terminal 7 WD repeats but lacking the FCA interaction domain are viable but late flowering (CITATION). In light of the identification of multiple FY/AtCPSF containing complexes, we considered that FY might undertake multiple functions in vivo, some perhaps as part of a “housekeeping” complex performing essential functions and others as part of specialized FCA-associated functions. To test this idea, we exploited the hypomorphic fy-2 allele that expresses a truncated FY unable to interact with FCA. Strikingly, the ratio of the different complexes was substantially changed, with the smaller FY complexes being much more predominant in the fy-2 mutant (FIG-REF). It is possible, therefore, that a subset of the complexes is involved in more specialized functions, such as FCA-mediated chromatin silencing, although FCA is not an integral part of those complexes. To pursue the biological role of the FCA/FY interaction, we sought to identify novel fy alleles that specifically affected the FCA-binding motif in FY (CITATION). To this end, we exploited a mutagenesis strategy used to identify components required for FCA-mediated FLC down-regulation. Suppressors of overexpressed FCAγ (sof) mutants were identified based on increased FLC levels in a background expressing a 35S-FCAγ transgene. (FIG-REFA) The identification of the mutants is facilitated by the use of an FLC-luciferase (FLC-LUC) translational fusion (CITATION). The sof28 and sof44 mutants show high FLC-LUC reporter activity (Fig. S2A). Consistently, endogenous FLC levels (FIG-REFA) are increased through transcriptional effects (Fig. S2B) and flowering is delayed (Fig. S2C). This suggests that the mutations disrupt the regulation of endogenous FLC, and that their effect on FCA-mediated FLC repression is not specific for the FLC-LUC reporter. [[FIGURE]] Sequencing of FY cDNA revealed mis-sense mutations affecting the first FY PPLP motif (FIG-REFB). Both mutations changed a CCT base triplet coding for proline to TCT coding for serine instead. The sof44 mutation changed P488 in FY to serine and thus PPLP to SPLP, the sof28 mutation changed P489 to serine and consequently PPLP to PSLP (FIG-REFB). We confirmed that the mutations in FY are responsible for the phenotype by crossing the previously characterized fy-1 allele with sof28 and sof44 and the progenitor control and tested the phenotype of the F1 generation (Fig. S2D). Heteroallelic combinations between fy-1 and sof28 or sof44 showed significantly increased FLC-LUC reporter activity. We conclude that the novel mutations in FY are causing the phenotype, and that sof28 and sof44 are new fy-alleles. Compared with the fy-1 mutant that expresses a protein lacking most of the variable C-terminal domain (FIG-REFB), the phenotypic consequences of the amino acid substitutions found in the PPLP-disrupted alleles might be expected to be comparably weak. However, our analysis of endogenous FLC (FIG-REFA) and flowering time analysis of heteroallelic combinations between the PPLP mutants and fy-1 that did not lead to a further delay in flowering suggest they are similarly strong (Fig. S2 C and E). We therefore tested whether the PPLP mutations generally destabilized the FY protein but found that FY levels are not reduced compared with controls (Fig. S2F). Taken together, we conclude that mutations that specifically disrupt the function of the first FY PPLP motif have similar phenotypic strength to fy-1, and that the first PPLP motif is necessary for FCA-mediated FLC suppression in vivo. The functional requirement for the PPLP motif prompted us to analyze the importance of the FCA/FY interaction in the context of FY/AtCPSF and FCA complex formation (FIG-REF). The elution profile of the FCA complex was unchanged in PPLP mutants or in fy-1(FIG-REFC I–III). The elution profile of FY complexes was unchanged in PPLP mutants or fca-9 (FIG-REFD IV–VI); however, the profile of the AtCPSF complexes was significantly changed. The abundance of the higher MW complexes was reduced in fy-1 and a PPLP mutant (FIG-REFE VIII and IX compared with VII), and this was also observed in fca-9 (FIG-REFF XI compared with X); both results strengthen the argument that reduction in the abundance of the high MW AtCPSF complex in fy-2 (FIG-REF) may be attributed specifically to the loss of the FCA/FY interaction. It is also possible that overexpression of FCA through the 35S-FCAγ transgene (FIG-REFE VII compared with FIG-REFF X and FIG-REF) promotes formation of higher MW AtCPSF complexes. The different effect of these genotypes on the FY and AtCPSF160 profiles reinforces the view that multiple RNA processing complexes of differing composition occur in vivo. Taken together, our data suggest that the FCA/FY interaction leads to altered interactions in the FY/AtCPSF complexes and this is a necessary step in FCA-mediated chromatin silencing.
!~MM~! Constructs and expression analysis A 400-bp PCR-amplified FY probe was made by using primers FY1 5′-CAATGTACGCCGGCGGCGATA-3′and FY4 5′-ACGGTTGATTGAACAACGGTTC-3′. An FLC probe was made by using primers FLC 3′UTR3′: 5′-ACGAATAAGGTACAAAGTTC-3′ and FLC exon7 5′-GGAGAATAATCATCATGTGGGAGCA-3′, and Northern blot analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Spliced/unspliced FLC transcripts were determined as described (CITATION). FY Western blot analyses were performed as described in ref. CITATION. The TAP epitope was detected by using PAP antibodies (Sigma P1291) at 1:1,000 dilution. AtCPSF160 detection was performed by using anti-AtCPSF160 antibodies (CITATION) at 1:1,000 dilution. Generation of the FY-TAP construct is detailed in SI Methods. The TAP purification protocol (CITATION) and gel filtration analyses were used as described in ref. CITATION. Identification of proteins in the TAP eluates by mass spectrometry are described in the SI Methods. fy-2 was crossed into the SUC-PDS transgenic line (CITATION), and doubly homozygous plants were selected for phenotypic analyses. Bisulfite sequencing of the endogenous PDS gene was performed on dissected primary leaves enriched for silenced tissue as described in ref. CITATION. Nineteen to thirty-two independent clones were analyzed per genotype (see Table S1).
