!~ABS~! Translation of most mRNAs is performed in a cap-dependent manner, requiring a protein complex, the cap complex, to regulate the accessibility of the message to the 40S ribosome. The cap complex initiates protein translation by binding to the 5′ cap of an mRNA and recruiting ribosomes to begin translation. Compared to animals and yeast, there are significant plant-specific differences in the regulation of cap-dependent mRNA translation, but these are poorly understood. Here, we purified proteins that bind to the 5′ cap during the Arabidopsis growth cycle. The protein profile of the cap-binding complexes varies during the various stages of the growth cycle in suspension culture cells. Using Western blotting, the cap complexes of quiescent cells were found to be composed of only three major proteins: eIF4isoE, which is primarily a cytoplasmic protein, and eIF4E and CBP80, which accumulate in the nucleus. However, when cells proliferate, at least 10 major proteins bind directly or indirectly to the 5′ cap. Proteomic, Western blotting and immunoprecipitation data establish that the spectrum of RNA helicases in the cap complexes also changes during the growth cycle. Cap complexes from proliferating cultures mainly contain eIF4A, which associates with at least four cap complexes, but eIF4A is replaced by additional helicases in quiescent cells. These findings suggest that the dynamic and selective recruitment of various proteins to mRNA 5′ cap complexes could play an important role in the regulation of gene expression.
!~RES~! To define the profile of cap-binding proteins in Arabidopsis suspension cells through the growth cycle, we first established the protein levels in total cell extracts (Figure 1a, b), then precipitated m7GTP-binding proteins from the same cell extracts (Figure 1c, d). The m7GTP–Sepharose matrix acts as a cap analogue, and can isolate complexes containing proteins that would normally bind the 5′ cap of mRNA transcripts. To assess the specificity of the m7GTP–Sepharose, we probed the eluates for the presence of actin, an abundant cytoplasmic protein that would not normally be found in the cap complex. Actin was undetectable in the m7GTP eluates, even though it was abundant in the soluble cell extracts (compare Figure 1b and d), whereas known cap-binding proteins, such as eIF4E, were routinely isolated. This indicates that the m7GTP–Sepharose specifically isolates cap-associated proteins. [[FIGURE]] The abundance of several cap-associated proteins (Figure 1a, b) and their binding affinity for m7GTP–Sepharose (Figure 1c, d) varied markedly as the Arabidopsis cells grew and became quiescent. Some components of the cap complex, including CBP80, eIF4E and eIFiso4E, remained at similar levels over the growth cycle (Figure 1d). These three proteins were precipitated by m7GTP beads from extracts of both proliferating and quiescent cells, as expected for proteins that bind directly to the cap. However, accessory proteins that do not bind directly to the 5′ cap varied in their affinity. For example, eIF4A protein abundance remained constant over the growth cycle, but it was only precipitated using m7GTP beads during the early part of the growth phase (compare Figure 1b and d). Even though eIF4B levels were high until day 6, it was only detectable in m7GTP bead precipitates on day 2. eIFiso4G protein levels fell as the growth cycle proceeded, and only traces remained detectable in quiescent cells (Figure 1b). eIFiso4G association with the m7GTP beads also decreased, as it was no longer detected on Western blots of the cap complex from day 7 cells (Figure 1d). CBP20 is a notable exception to the general rule that abundance in cell extracts reflects abundance in the m7GTP bead precipitates: the cellular abundance of CBP20 was relatively low during the early growth period, being barely detectable until day 3, but it was much more abundant at later time points. However, CBP20 bound to the m7GTP beads during the early stages of cell growth cycle, but was barely detectable in m7GTP bead precipitates from quiescent cells (day 8), despite being more abundant in whole-cell extracts. CBP20 and 80 are two cap-associated proteins that are thought to be involved in nuclear mRNA processing and nuclear–cytoplasmic transport (CITATION). The other plant-specific cap-binding protein, nCBP, was selectively enriched by m7GTP–Sepharose precipitation from proliferating cell extracts, but was undetectable in Western blots of total cell protein, so we cannot comment on whether its affinity for m7GTP changes. As determined by SDS–PAGE and Western blot, the overall trend was for most proteins in the cap complex to peak in abundance during the first 3 or 4 days of the growth cycle, but then to exit the cap complex in quiescent cells (Figure 1d). As an exception to this trend, eIF4E, eIFiso4E and CBP80 were the major components of the simplified ‘core’ of cap proteins in 8-day-old cultures that had ceased both growth and division. To determine how the observed protein abundance was related to gene activity, we used the Genevestigator website (http://www.genevestigator.com/gv/index.jsp) to examine a microarray dataset from growth experiments using the same cell culture (CITATION). There were clear increases in gene expression over the initial 12 h of growth for eIF4E-1, eIFiso4E, eIFiso4G-1, eIFiso4G-2, eIF4A-1, eIF4A-2, CBP20 and RNA helicases RH9 and RH11, whereas other genes showed much less marked increases in expression. Furthermore, the observed reduction in the abundance of cap complex proteins through the late growth period was generally reflected by reduced gene expression Exceptions to this trend were the protein levels of eIF4A, which remained uniform, and of CBP20, which increased with the age of the culture, despite reduced mRNA levels. This indicates that the protein abundance of cap components is not always directly related to mRNA levels. Inspection of m7GTP–Sepharose eluates (such as that shown in Figure 1c) indicated that many proteins were present in addition to those known to directly bind the 5′ cap. As these could represent novel accessory proteins, we used mass spectrometry (MS) to identify them. A pilot experiment using m7GTP–Sepharose beads to purify m7GTP-binding complexes from a 4-day-old cell culture assessed the quantities of protein required for MS experiments and enabled identification of the major components. Six of the most prevalent bands were excised from a 10% SDS–PAGE gel, and the proteins were identified by MS as previously described (CITATION). To identify the less abundant proteins, we used the more sensitive approach of separating trypsin-digested peptide fragments by reverse-phase chromatography followed by Quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-ToF) or Linear ion Trap Quadrupole (LTQ) MS analysis. Proteins bound to 0.5 ml m7GTP–Sepharose columns loaded with 5 ml soluble cell extracts from proliferating (2-day-old) or quiescent (8-day-old) cells, were eluted with soluble m7GTP and acetone-precipitated to yield concentrated pellets (Table 1 and By comparing the proteins bound to Sepharose with those eluted from m7GTP–Sepharose, we were able to identify and eliminate proteins that bound non-specifically to the Sepharose matrix rather than the m7GTP cap analogue. We also took the precaution of adding RNase to the isolation buffers to preclude indirect co-precipitation of other non-relevant mRNA-binding proteins. The MS procedures used are only semi-quantitative, and therefore we did not use the method to estimate relative protein abundance. Thus, Table 1 indicates how often a particular protein was detected with high confidence over multiple experiments, not the abundance of that protein. Western blots on the other hand, as shown in Figure 1, provide relative quantification and can indicate how protein abundance varies over time. Proteins with high-ranking scores on a reproducible basis were taken to be cap-binding proteins and their interacting partners (Table 1). Several novel cap complex-associated proteins were also identified, including several RNA helicases, six RNA-binding proteins, three heat shock proteins, a ribosomal protein and two others of unknown function (At2g41800 and At4g01290). −, never identified; +, identified once; ++, identified 25–0% of the time; +++, identified ≥60% of the time. Next we compared the spectrum of proteins from cells at various stages of the growth cycle. Proteins unique to m7GTP eluates derived from proliferating cells included the major RNA helicase eIF4A, two heat shock proteins, a putative RNA-binding protein and a ribosomal protein. Eluted proteins specifically identified from quiescent cells included CBP20, a MIF4G domain-containing protein of unknown function, five RNA helicases, three RNA-binding proteins, a glycine-rich protein and one unknown protein (At2g41800). eIF4A was associated with cap complexes only from proliferating cells (in agreement with the Western blotting data from Figure 1d), and five RNA helicases were specific to quiescent cap complexes (Table 1). The proteins found in common between eluates from proliferating and quiescent cell cultures included: eIF4E-1, nCBP, eIFiso4E-1, eIF4G-1, eIF4isoG-1/2 proteins, CBP80, one RNA helicase (RH37), heat shock protein CPHSC70-1, two RNA-binding proteins (At1g10270 and At5g58470), a GYF domain-containing protein (At5g42950) and the unknown protein encoded by At4g01290. These data support the idea that new components may be recruited to cap complexes at various phases of the growth cycle. The m7GTP affinity purification procedure also captured a number of nuclear proteins, indicating that the m7GTP affinity method isolates both nuclear and cytoplasmic complexes. For example, a constitutively expressed, YFP-tagged glutamine-rich protein GRP23 (At1g10270) localizes to the Arabidopsis root cell nucleus (CITATION). CBP20 and 80 have previously been reported as being primarily localized in the nucleus (CITATION), and there are both cytoplasmic and nuclear pools of eIF4E in mammalian cells (CITATION). One possible explanation for the progressive simplification of the cap complex as seen by SDS–PAGE and Western blotting is that, in non-growing cells, the steady state localisation of some cap-associated proteins is nuclear, and translational control at the level of nuclear export may become a more important regulatory mechanism as cells exit the cell cycle. To evaluate this, we localized the various cap-binding proteins at various stages during the growth cycle using indirect immunofluorescence (Figure 2 and Table 2). During the early stages of the growth cycle, eIF4E and CBP80 were both preferentially localized to the cytoplasm, with relatively low levels in the nuclei (Figure 2a and g). CBP20 localized to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Figure 2d). By day 4, eIF4E, CBP20 and CBP80 were accumulating in the nucleus of cells (Figure 2b,e and h). This distribution of CBP20 and CBP80 in 4-day-old cells is similar to that seen in 5-day-old living culture cells expressing fluorescently tagged CBP20 and CBP80 (CITATION). The majority of cells showed a primarily nuclear localization pattern by day 7 of the growth cycle (Figure 2c,f,i). All other proteins tested (Table 2) were located in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and their localization did not change between proliferating and quiescent cells. [[FIGURE]] ∼, diffuse localization in cytoplasm and nucleus; cytoplasmic, preferential cytoplasmic localization; nuclear, preferential nuclear localization. The proteomic and Western blotting data suggest that the major RNA helicase, eIF4A, is present in cap complexes of proliferating but not quiescent cells. To identify which cap complexes contain eIF4A and when, we performed immunoprecipitation experiments using antibodies recognizing the four known cap-binding proteins eIF4E, eIFiso4E, nCBP and CBP20 (Figure 3). We found that although eIF4A co-immunoprecipitates with all of the cap protein-specific antibodies, the temporal pattern of its association with each complex differs slightly. For instance, it was most abundant in eIF4E complexes on day 2 (Figure 3a), but was detectable between days 2 and 4 in CBP20 complexes (Figure 3d). eIF4A was equally abundant in nCBP complexes at days 2 and 4, but was not detectable at later stages of growth (Figure 3c), but it was detectable until day 6 in eIFiso4E complexes (Figure 3b). The specificity of the antibodies was rigorously checked, and there were no detectable cap proteins in control immunoprecipitations using anti-GFP (Figure 3e) or lacking primary antibodies (data not shown). These results support the data shown in Figure 1 and Table 1, and indicate that the temporal pattern of eIF4A recruitment to cap complexes varies depending on the complex and on the phase of the growth cycle. [[FIGURE]] Next we compared the behaviour of cap-binding complexes from cultured cells with those in whole plants. In the shoot apical meristem and leaf primordia, many cells are in a proliferative state, but there is a proximal–distal down-regulation of mitosis and a reciprocal increase in cell expansion during leaf expansion. Then, in fully expanded leaves, the cells enter a stationary differentiated state. This series of events mirrors those in cell culture (CITATION; CITATION). Protein samples were prepared from fully expanded and expanding Arabidopsis leaves of varying size (indicated by the black, red and blue circles in Figure 4a) and from the central ‘meristematic zone’, which, in addition to the shoot apical meristem, contained the non-proliferating stem tissue beneath it. Proteins from soluble cell extracts, anti-eIF4A immunoprecipitates and m7GTP affinity purifications were separated by SDS–PAGE and silver-stained (Figure 4b–e, top panels), and protein samples from duplicate gels were transferred to nitrocellulose for probing with antibodies (Figure 4b–e, lower panels). In anti-eIF4A immunoprecipitation samples, eIF4A is uniformly present throughout the growth period of cell cultures (Figure 4b), reflecting the uniform cytoplasmic abundance of the protein (Figure 1b). The protein is also detectable in all plant samples at relatively similar abundance (Figure 4c). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the profile of cap-binding proteins and complexes, we used m7GTP–Sepharose to isolate cap complexes from plant extracts. Eluates from m7GTP–Sepharose gave profiles (Figure 4e) that indicated that there were fewer total proteins in the cap complexes from plants compared to those from cell culture. Upon probing these membranes with antibodies to eIF4E, eIF4G, eIFiso4E, eIFiso4G, nCBP, CBP20 and CBP80, it became clear that although the m7GTP–Sepharose eluates from proliferating cell cultures contained all proteins tested, those from plants lacked detectable eIF4G, CBP20 and eIF4A, and eIFiso4G and nCBP were present at very low levels (Figure 4e). Moreover, the overall plant protein profiles resembled those from non-proliferating cell suspensions. To measure the mitotic activity at each developmental stage, we used the DNA-specific dye, DAPI, to stain leaves at equivalent stages of development to those used for the biochemical studies. This revealed that the smallest leaves (blue dots, Figure 4a) had the highest mitotic index (0.2–0.5%), but no mitotic cells were found in the larger leaves. The small leaves therefore have rates of cell proliferation similar to those of quiescent cell cultures (Figure 1a). Also, it should be noted that the central shoot apical meristem region did not contain just meristematic tissues. These samples also contained a relatively large amount of stem tissue, containing cap complexes from non-proliferating cells, these proteins would have the effect of reducing the relative abundance of cap complex proteins from out the proliferative cells in the shoot apical meristem. This could explain why the profiles of cap complexes isolated from plant tissues resemble those from quiescent cells. An alternative explanation, not mutually exclusive with the previous one, is that plants have numerous differentiated cell types and are thus a more heterogeneous system compared to cell cultures.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis cell cultures were maintained as previously described (CITATION). Cells were harvested at daily intervals by centrifugation (150 g, 1 min), frozen in 2 ml aliquots in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. Arabidopsis plants were grown at 20°C under a 10 h light/14 h dark photoperiod in controlled environment conditions, and sampled during the light period. Soluble cell extracts were prepared by grinding frozen cells in liquid nitrogen, and re-suspending in extraction buffer [100 mm HEPES pH 7.5, 5% v/v glycerol, 50 mm KCl, 5 mm EDTA, 5 mm NaF, 0.1% v/v Triton X-100, 15 mm sodium β-glycerophosphate, 0.5 mm sodium vanadate, 1 mm DTT and one Complete EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail tablet (Roche, http://www.roche.com) per 50 ml] in the ratio of 2 g powder to 3 ml buffer. The supernatants from a 20 min 14 000 g centrifugation at 4°C were passed through a 0.45 μm filter (Sartorius, http://www.sartorius.co.uk/) and used immediately. SDS–PAGE, Western blotting and silver staining were performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, proteins transferred to nitrocellulose were incubated with primary antibodies (all diluted 1:1000 in 1% w/v dried milk powder/TBS containing 0.1% Tween-20, pH 7.2) for 2 h at 20°C or overnight at 4°C; peroxidase-conjugated antibodies (1:1000) were used similarly. Rabbit antibodies to wheat eIF4A and Arabidopsis eIF4B, eIF4E, eIFiso4E, eIFiso4G and nCBP were kindly provided by Dr Karen Browning (Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Texas at Austin, TX). The anti-actin C4 antibody was from Sigma (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), and the anti-GFP antibody was produced by immunizing rabbits with GFP protein (Eurogentec, http://www.eurogentec.com/). Labelled proteins were detected using a SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate kit (Pierce, http://www.piercenet.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Soluble cell extracts (0.5 ml adjusted to equal protein concentration) were incubated with 50 μl m7GTP–Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare, http://www5.gelifesciences.com/) on a rotator overnight at 4°C. The Sepharose beads were washed four times with 1 ml extraction buffer, and the bound proteins were eluted by boiling in Laemmli buffer and separated by SDS–PAGE. Equal volumes of sample were loaded per lane. A scaled-up procedure, using 0.5 ml of beads and 5 ml of cell extracts from 2- or 8-day-old cultures, was used to elute proteins for reverse-phase spectrometry; in this case, proteins were eluted using 200 μm m7GTP, concentrated by acetone precipitation and dried. Soluble cell extracts (0.5 ml adjusted to equal protein concentration) were incubated with 50 μl Protein A agarose beads (Sigma) with or without antibodies (20 μl aliquots) on a rotator overnight at 4°C. The beads were washed and processed for SDS–PAGE as described above: equal volumes of sample were loaded per lane. Aliquots of cells were taken from 1-, 4- and 7-day-old cultures and fixed in cold 4% w/v paraformaldehyde in PME buffer (50 mm PIPES pH 6.9, 5 mm MgSO4, 5 mm EDTA) containing 0.3 m mannitol. Cells were allowed to settle on poly-l-lysine-coated glass slides, washed in PBS (pH 7.2), and incubated for 10 min in a solution of 50 mg cellulase ‘Onozuka’ R10 (Yakult Pharmaceutical Industry Co., Ltd, http://www.yakult.co.jp), 5 mg Pectolyase Y23 (MP Biochemicals, http://www.mpbio.com), 0.05% v/v Triton-100 in 10 ml of PME buffer to permeabilize cell walls. Primary antibodies to cap-complex proteins and tubulin (YOL 1/34, Serotec, http://www.ab-direct.com/) were diluted 1:50 in 3% w/v BSA–TBS blocking buffer (pH 7.2) for 1 h; FITC conjugates diluted 1:100 were used similarly. Finally, cells were stained with DAPI, mounted in Citifluor anti-fade solution (CitiFluor Ltd, http://www.citifluor.co.uk), and examined using a Leica SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com/). Peptides generated from the tryptic digest of highly concentrated, acetone-precipitated cap proteins were loaded at high flow rate (30 μl/min) onto a reverse-phase trapping column [0.3 mm internal diameter × 5 mm in length, containing 5 μm C18 100 Å PEPMAP packing (Dionex UK Ltd., http://www.dionex.com/)] and eluted through a reverse-phase capillary column [(75 μm internal diameter x 150 mm in length, containing Symmetry 5 μm C18 300 Å packing, http://www.waters.com/)] directly into the nano-electrospray ion source of either a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer (Q-ToF2, Waters Micromass) or an ion trap mass spectrometer (LTQ, Thermo Fisher, http://www.thermofisher.com/). The LTQ conditions were as previously described by CITATION. Fragment ion spectra were searched using MASCOT (CITATION) against a weekly updated version of the SPTrEMBL protein database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/swissprot).
