!~ABS~! Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a broad-spectrum plant immune response involving profound transcriptional changes that are regulated by the coactivator NPR1. Nuclear translocation of NPR1 is a critical regulatory step, but how the protein is regulated in the nucleus is unknown. Here, we show that turnover of nuclear NPR1 protein plays an important role in modulating transcription of its target genes. In the absence of pathogen challenge, NPR1 is continuously cleared from the nucleus by the proteasome, which restricts its coactivator activity to prevent untimely activation of SAR. Surprisingly, inducers of SAR promote NPR1 phosphorylation at residues Ser11/Ser15, and then facilitate its recruitment to a Cullin3-based ubiquitin ligase. Turnover of phosphorylated NPR1 is required for full induction of target genes and establishment of SAR. These in vivo data demonstrate dual roles for coactivator turnover in both preventing and stimulating gene transcription to regulate plant immunity.
!~RES~! To examine if protein stability plays a role in NPR1 regulation, we performed a cell-free degradation assay (see CITATION available with this article online) using extracts from wild-type Col-0 plants and previously characterized transgenic 35S::NPR1-GFP plants (CITATION). We found that both the endogenous NPR1 and NPR1-GFP were completely degraded within 2 hr ( CITATIONA). To test which cellular mechanism is responsible for this observed degradation, we studied the effect of several proteolysis inhibitors. Whereas addition of the proteasome inhibitors MG115 or MG132 prevented NPR1 and NPR1-GFP degradation, the protease inhibitors leupeptin and PMSF were ineffective in this respect (CITATIONA), indicating that NPR1 degradation specifically requires proteasome activity. NPR1 degradation was then examined in planta by treating wild-type Col-0 plants with MG115 or MG132. Similar to SA-induced plants, inhibition of proteasome activity significantly enhanced the accumulation of both NPR1 oligomer and monomer (CITATIONB). To eliminate the effect of transcriptional regulation on NPR1 protein concentration, we examined the 35S::NPR1-GFP plants, which constitutively express the transgene independent of SA and proteasome inhibitor treatment (CITATION). As reported previously (CITATION), GFP fluorescence was weak in untreated plants due to the oligomeric status of the NPR1-GFP protein (CITATIONC and 1D). SA treatment induced NPR1-GFP monomer formation, resulting in strong GFP fluorescence in the nuclei (CITATIONC). Plants treated with MG115 or MG132 also exhibited readily detectable GFP fluorescence in the nuclei (CITATIONC) and showed a significant increase in total NPR1 protein (CITATIOND; +DTT). As shown in nonreducing western blot analysis, this increase was predominantly in the form of NPR1 monomer (CITATIOND; -DTT). Consequently, the NPR1 target gene PR-1 was induced in these MG115- or MG132-treated plants, albeit at a level lower than that found in SA-treated plants (CITATIOND). These data indicate that transcriptionally active NPR1 is constantly degraded by the proteasome. Blocking proteasome activity causes ectopic accumulation of NPR1 monomer and spurious expression of its target genes. However, an additional SA-dependent mechanism seems to be required to fully turn on transcriptional activity of NPR1. We then investigated whether NPR1 oligomer and monomer are equally sensitive to proteasome-mediated degradation using plant extracts supplemented with or without the reducing agent dithiothreitol (DTT). Addition of 5 mM DTT reduced nearly all NPR1-GFP oligomer to its monomeric form (CITATION) and consequently accelerated its degradation (CITATIONE), suggesting that NPR1 monomer is preferentially degraded. Because NPR1 monomer was observed in the nucleus upon proteasome inhibitor treatment, we hypothesized that proteolysis of NPR1 may occur there. To test this hypothesis, we examined the in vivo stability of NPR1-GFP and the nuclear localization sequence (nls) mutant npr1-nls-GFP by treating plants with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX). Whereas the amount of NPR1-GFP rapidly decreased in the absence of new protein synthesis, the levels of npr1-nls-GFP, which has been shown before to reside predominantly in the cytoplasm (CITATION), remained unchanged (CITATIONF). The lack of degradation of npr1-nls-GFP was probably due to its cytosolic mislocalization, not resistance to degradation per se, because the mutant protein was as readily degraded as the wild-type protein in cell-free extracts (data not shown). To confirm this result, we also used plants expressing NPR1 fused to a dexamethasone (DEX)-responsive glucocorticoid receptor (NPR1-GR) (CITATION). In the absence of DEX, NPR1-GR was retained in the cytosol and its abundance was not affected by CHX treatment (CITATIONG). In the presence of DEX, however, NPR1-GR was nuclear translocated and rapidly degraded. These findings demonstrate that in vivo NPR1 monomer is constitutively degraded in the nucleus by the proteasome. Since blocking entry into the nucleus completely stabilized the protein, NPR1 monomer is probably degraded only in the nucleus. NPR1 contains a BTB/POZ (broad-complex, tramtrack, and bric-à-brac/poxvirus, zinc finger) domain, which is found in proteins that function as substrate adapters of CUL3-based ubiquitin ligases for the degradation of specific substrates (CITATION). Interestingly, BTB-containing proteins themselves may also be substrates for these CUL3 complexes (CITATION). Since NPR1 is degraded by the proteasome, we tested the possibility that NPR1 is a substrate of CUL3-based ubiquitin ligases using coimmunoprecipitation experiments between NPR1-GFP and CUL3A. Even though previously reported yeast two-hybrid analysis found no direct interaction between CUL3A and NPR1 (CITATION), NPR1-GFP could be pulled down with an antibody against CUL3A ( CITATIONA). This suggests that CUL3 and NPR1 may interact indirectly through an adaptor protein. To validate the NPR1-CUL3 interaction genetically, we generated a double mutant between Arabidopsis cul3a and cul3b, both of which are T-DNA insertion mutants. It has been shown previously that a cul3a cul3b double knock-out is embryonic lethal (CITATION). To overcome this obstacle we generated a cul3a cul3b double mutant using a knockout cul3a allele and a ∼50% knockdown cul3b allele (CITATION), which resulted in viable adult plants. Compared to the wild-type, NPR1 mRNA levels were reduced in the cul3a cul3b mutant (CITATION). Nevertheless, steady-state NPR1 protein levels were comparable in wild-type and mutant plants (CITATIONB), suggesting that NPR1 protein is more stable in absence of CUL3. To further test this, wild-type Col-0 and cul3a cul3b plants were treated with CHX to block new protein synthesis. CHX treatment led to a decrease in the amount of NPR1 in the wild-type, yet NPR1 levels did not decrease in cul3a cul3b plants (CITATIONB). Similar results were obtained for NPR1-GFP protein expressed in wild-type and cul3a cul3b plants (CITATIONB). The COP9 signalosome (CSN) has been shown to regulate the stability and activity of CUL proteins by cycles of (de)neddylation, a process in which lysine residues are modified by the ubiquitin-like molecule Nedd8 (CITATION). To investigate if the CSN is also involved in NPR1 degradation, the 35S::NPR1-GFP transgene was introduced into the cop9 mutant background through genetic crosses. As shown in CITATIONC, NPR1-GFP degradation was dramatically blocked by the cop9 mutation. If degradation of transcriptionally active NPR1 monomer is to keep SAR inactive in unchallenged plants, we expected this regulation to be compromised in the cul3a cul3b mutant. Indeed, compared to wild-type plants, unchallenged cul3a cul3b mutants showed high constitutive expression of the NPR1 target genes PR-1, PR-2, and PR-5 (CITATIOND). Importantly, this constitutive PR gene expression was NPR1-dependent, because it was completely lost in the cul3a cul3b npr1-1 triple mutant (CITATIOND). In accordance with the observed constitutive PR gene activation, cul3a cul3b plants exhibited elevated levels of resistance against the virulent bacterial leaf-pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola (Psm) ES4326 (CITATION). Collectively, these findings demonstrate that in unchallenged plants, CUL3/CSN-mediated degradation of transcriptionally active NPR1 monomer prevents costly activation of PR genes and SAR. SA induces the release of transcriptionally active NPR1 monomer, which regulates the expression of many defense genes. This prompted us to investigate the effect of SA on NPR1 degradation. Unexpectedly, coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicated that in SA treated plants, more NPR1-GFP was pulled down with CUL3A and three components of the CSN complex (COP9, CSN4, CSN5; CITATIONA). To reconcile this with the fact that SA treatment leads to accumulation of NPR1-GFP monomer in the nucleus (CITATIONB), we hypothesized that this accumulation resulted from a significant increase in NPR1-GFP import into the nucleus rather than a reduction in protein degradation. Indeed, SA-induced monomer was completely absent when de novo protein synthesis was inhibited by CHX (CITATIONB). Accordingly, western blot analysis indicated that SA treatment did not rescue NPR1-GFP protein from degradation (CITATIONC). These data indicate that proteolysis of NPR1 still occurs after SAR induction despite the fact that NPR1 is a positive regulator of this response. We then examined whether proteasome activity affects induction of the NPR1 target genes WRKY18, WRKY38, and WRKY62 (CITATION). The NPR1-dependency of these target genes was clearly demonstrated by their complete lack of responsiveness to SA treatment in the npr1 mutant (CITATIOND). Transformation of 35S::NPR1-GFP into the npr1 mutant restored the SA-mediated transcription of the WRKY genes. Whereas treatment with MG115 alone resulted in weak NPR1-dependent activation of the WRKY genes (CITATION), the SA-mediated induction of these genes was strongly inhibited in the presence of MG115 (CITATIOND and CITATION), indicating that SA-induced transcription of these WRKY genes requires both NPR1 and the proteasome activity. SA-induced expression of PR-1, another NPR1 target (CITATION), was only modestly affected by MG115 treatment (CITATION), suggesting that its activation is less dependent on the proteasome. Since the NPR1-GFP transgene is constitutively expressed, independent of SA and MG115 (CITATION), the observed reduction in NPR1 target gene expression was specifically due to the change in NPR1 protein stability, not expression. Because degradation of NPR1 requires CUL3 in uninduced plants, we examined its requirement for NPR1 degradation in SA-induced plants. Blocking protein synthesis with CHX in SA-treated wild-type plants strongly reduced endogenous NPR1 protein levels, whereas NPR1 levels remained constant in the cul3a cul3b mutant ( CITATIONA). Moreover, the NPR1-GFP protein expressed in SA-treated wild-type plants was highly polyubiquitinylated (CITATIONB). This modification was significantly reduced in the cul3a cul3b mutant background (CITATIONB). To investigate the role of CUL3 in activation of NPR1-dependent gene transcription, we examined expression of the NPR1 targets in the cul3a cul3b mutant. SA-induced transcription of all three WRKY genes was partially compromised in this mutant (CITATIONC). Importantly, after SA treatment, the levels of gene expression in cul3a cul3b plants were comparable to those observed in wild-type plants treated with both SA and MG115 (CITATIONC), confirming the role of CUL3 in this proteasome-dependent gene expression. To examine the impact of impaired WRKY gene expression on SAR, we used the previously described wrky18 mutant (CITATION) and generated a double mutant of the two closely related and likely redundant WRKY38 and WRKY62 genes. In wrky18 and wrky38 wrky62 mutants, NPR1-dependent SAR against Psm ES4326, triggered after local inoculation of avirulent P.s. pv. tomato (Pst) DC3000/ avrRpt2, was partially compromised (CITATIOND and 4E). Thus, NPR1-mediated activation of these WRKY genes is essential for induction of SAR. Because knocking out NPR1-target WRKY genes impairs SAR, we predicted that the cul3a cul3b mutant would also be defective in SAR due to the failure to fully induce these genes. Indeed, cul3a cul3b plants failed to activate SAR against Psm ES4326 (CITATIONF), even though it had higher levels of basal resistance against this pathogen due to elevated PR gene expression (CITATIOND). Taken together, these data suggest that SA-induced, CUL3-mediated turnover of the coactivator NPR1 may stimulate target gene transcription and is required for activation of SAR. Targeting substrates to the proteasome is often regulated by post-translational modifications, such as phosphorylation. To examine if NPR1 is phosphorylated, we treated 35S::NPR1-GFP plants with or without SA, extracted total protein, and applied the extracts onto a column that specifically binds phospho-proteins (see CITATION). We found that NPR1-GFP could bind to the column as significant amounts of the protein were eluted, especially from extracts of SA-treated plants ( CITATIONA). Indeed, using an antibody against phosphorylated serine/threonine residues, we found that SA treatment strongly increased the level of NPR1 phosphorylation (CITATIONB). NPR1 contains an N-terminal phosphodegron motif that is highly conserved among NPR1 orthologs in different plant species (CITATIONC). Phosphodegrons are degradation motifs found in many proteasome-regulated substrates, including IκB (CITATION). To study if Ser11 and Ser15 of the IκB-like phosphodegron motif in NPR1 are phosphorylated in vivo, we generated an antibody that specifically recognizes phosphorylated Ser11/15 (CITATION; see CITATION). Little Ser11/15 phosphorylation of the endogenous NPR1 and NPR1-GFP was observed in untreated plants, whereas SA treatment greatly enhanced phosphorylation (CITATIOND and 5E). Moreover, SA-induced Ser11/15 phosphorylation of NPR1 occurs in the nucleus, as this modification was completely abolished in the cytoplasmic npr1-nls-GFP mutant protein (CITATIONE). Since NPR1 phosphorylation and degradation both occur in the nucleus, we investigated if SA-induced phosphorylation of the IκB-like phosphodegron motif was coupled to NPR1 turnover. Ser11 and Ser15 of NPR1-GFP were replaced with nonphosphorylatable alanines (S11/15A) or phospho-mimic aspartic acids (S11/15D). The resulting 35S::npr1S11/15A-GFP and 35S::npr1S11/15D-GFP constructs were then transformed into npr1-2 plants. In a cell-free degradation assay, the npr1S11/15D-GFP protein showed an increased degradation rate as compared to both NPR1-GFP (not phosphorylated in the absence of an inducer) and npr1S11/15A-GFP ( CITATIONA). To further investigate this, plants were treated with a combination of SA and MG115 and coimmunoprecipitation experiments were performed. As shown in CITATIONB, both the NPR1-GFP (phosphorylated in the presence of an inducer) and npr1S11/15D-GFP proteins were readily pulled down with CUL3A, whereas only a small amount of npr1S11/15A-GFP protein was recovered. Moreover, polyubiquitinylation of npr1S11/15A-GFP was markedly reduced compared to NPR1-GFP (CITATIONC). Thus, SA-induced phosphorylation of NPR1 facilitates its interaction with the CUL3-based ubiquitin ligase and stimulates turnover. To test our hypothesis that phosphorylation-mediated turnover of NPR1 is required for activation of gene expression and SAR, we first examined the stability of NPR1-GFP and npr1S11/15A-GFP proteins in systemic tissues during the time course of SAR induction. As shown in the western blot in CITATIOND, the constitutively expressed NPR1-GFP protein showed a remarkable biphasic degradation pattern at 4 and 16 hr post inoculation with avirulent Pst DC3000/avrRpt2. In contrast, this degradation pattern was significantly diminished for the npr1S11/15A-GFP protein. Corresponding to NPR1 protein measurements, the transcription profiles of the NPR1 target genes WRKY18, WRKY38, WRKY62, and PR-1 were also analyzed in systemic tissues (CITATIONE). Consistent with the notion that NPR1 turnover stimulates the expression of these target genes, induction of WRKY gene transcription coincided with a decrease in NPR1-GFP protein levels 4 hr post inoculation (CITATIOND and 6E). In 35S::npr1S11/15A-GFP plants, however, induction of WRKY gene transcription was weakened and/or delayed, corresponding to the slow turnover rate of the npr1S11/15A-GFP protein (CITATIOND and 6E). In 35S::NPR1-GFP plants, PR-1 gene expression was also strongly induced during the second NPR1 turnover phase (CITATIONE). Notably, induction of this gene was significantly reduced in 35S::npr1S11/15A-GFP plants. Similar patterns were also observed when these plants were treated with SA (data not shown), but protein fluctuations were the most profound in systemic tissue during biological induction of SAR. Together with the finding that mutations in Ser11 and Ser15 do not affect NPR1's ability to interact with transcription factors (CITATION), these data demonstrate that turnover of phosphorylated NPR1 is required for full-scale expression of its target genes. We next tested the ability of 35S::npr1S11/15A-GFP plants to mount SAR. As controls, pre-inoculation of 35S::NPR1-GFP plants with avirulent Pst DC3000/avrRpt2 protected the plants against virulent Psm ES4326 infection three days after. This protection was compromised in npr1 plants (CITATIONF). Interestingly, 35S::npr1S11/15A-GFP plants also failed to efficiently induce SAR, indicating that turnover of phosphorylated NPR1 is required for the onset of SAR. The result from the npr1S11/15A-GFP mutant was further corroborated using 35S::npr1S11/15D-GFP transgenic plants. Consistent with the increased degradation rate of the npr1S11/15D-GFP protein (CITATIONA), mock-treated 35S::npr1S11/15D-GFP plants exhibited elevated levels of resistance that were comparable to SAR-induced 35S::NPR1-GFP plants (CITATIONF). Interestingly, this might not be due to elevated basal expression of NPR1 target genes, but rather due to higher levels of target gene expression after induction in the 35S::npr1S11/15D-GFP plants (CITATION). This is consistent with the fact that NPR1 phosphorylation occurs only after pathogen challenge and suggests that the npr1S11/15D-GFP mutant is probably potentiated for this regulatory step. Indeed, SAR induction in 35S::npr1S11/15D-GFP did not further enhance resistance against Psm ES4326 (CITATIONF). These data demonstrate that the turnover of phosphorylated NPR1 is an important regulatory switch in inducing SAR.
!~MM~! See CITATION for details. The roots of soil-grown plants were submerged in 0.5 mM SA, 100 μM cycloheximide, and 100 μM MG115 or MG132. Alternatively, 12 day-old MS-grown seedlings were submerged in 100 μM cycloheximide and 5 μM dexamethasone. Pathogen infections were performed as described (CITATION). Protein analysis was performed essentially as described (CITATION). For cell-free degradation assays protein was extracted in 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM ATP, and with or without 5 mM DTT. After centrifugation (14,000 g, 10 min, 4°C) supernatants were incubated at room temperature and the reactions terminated with SDS sample buffer and incubation at 70°C (10 min). Inhibitors (40 μM MG115, 40 μM MG132, 4 mM PMSF, 40 μM Leupeptin) were applied using 2% DMSO as vehicle. RNA analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, cDNA was produced by first strand synthesis using oligo(dT) primer and Reverse Transcriptase. Real-time PCR was carried out using the Quantitect SYBR Green PCR kit (QIAGEN) and gene-specific primers in a LightCycler (Roche).
