!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, three receptors exist for the phytohormone gibberellin. Of the three, only a double loss-of-function mutant (atgid1a atgid1c) shows a dwarf phenotype, while other double and all single mutants show no abnormality in height. In this study we show that the expression of AtGID1b–GUS mRNA, driven by the AtGID1b promoter, is low in inflorescence stems, but may be 10% of AtGID1a–GUS mRNA, driven by the AtGID1a promoter. However, AtGID1b–GUS enzymatic activity does not exist in them. This factor strongly suggests that atgid1a atgid1c lacks sufficient AtGID1b protein for normal stem growth. In the stamens of pAtGID1c::AtGID1c–GUS transformants, we detected clear AtGID1c–GUS activity, while another atgid1a atgid1b, which has short stamens in its flowers, causes the adhesion of little pollen to stigmas thus leading to its low fertility. We then evaluated the affinity of the AtGID1–DELLA interaction by a competitive yeast three-hybrid system and also by QCM apparatus. AtGID1c showed a quite lower affinity to RGL2, the major DELLA protein in floral buds, than AtGID1a or AtGID1b. The low affinity of the AtGID1c–RGL2 interaction is likely to be responsible for the failure of AtGID1c to hold RGL2, which is required for normal stamen development. Taken together with expressional information of DELLA genes, we propose that in a double loss-of-function mutant of gibberellin receptors, the emergence of any phenotype(s) depends on the abundance of the remaining receptor and its preference to DELLA proteins existing at a target site.
!~RES~! Firstly we quantified the absolute amount of AtGID1 transcripts by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), for fear that the phenotypes of double mutants would simply be caused by a decrease of the remaining receptor gene. We prepared total RNA from double mutants and parental WTs. As shown in Figure 1(a), in atgid1a atgid1c inflorescence stems, the amount of AtGID1b transcript did not show a big change compared with that of WT. Also in atgid1a atgid1b floral buds, the amount of AtGID1c transcript was not that different with that of WT (Figure 1c). In addition to AtGID1 transcripts, we also quantified the absolute amount of DELLA transcripts (Figure 1b,d). Generally, no large change in their amounts was detected, but the amount of RGL1 transcript was lower in both atgid1a atgid1c inflorescence stems and atgid1a atgid1b floral buds compared with that in WT. Additionally, although we could not detect any phenotypic abnormalities in atgid1a atgid1c floral buds, an increase of AtGID1b transcript and a decrease of RGL1 transcript were detected (Figure 1c,d). [[FIGURE]] To better assess the transcriptional level of those genes at a much higher resolution, we decided to quantify both AtGID1 and DELLA transcripts by using qRT-PCR only in filaments. We removed all anthers from stamens of just blooming WT (Columbia) flowers, and collected ca. 300 filaments twice. These results are shown in Figure S1. In WT filaments, AtGID1a and AtGID1b transcripts were comparable with each other, and RGL1 and RGL2 transcripts were dominant in five DELLA genes. Next, we prepared transformants carrying a β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene driven by an AtGID1 promoter (Figure 2a). The GUS gene was fused with the C-terminus of each genomic AtGID1 coding region, including one intron. We obtained eight lines (p1a::1a) for pAtGID1a::AtGID1a–GUS, two lines (p1b::1b) for pAtGID1b::AtGID1b–GUS, and four lines (p1c::1c) for pAtGID1c::AtGID1c–GUS. We firstly focused on inflorescence stems of the transformants. Almost no GUS activity was detected at the p1b::1b site, while clear GUS activity was detected at both p1a::1a and p1c::1c sites (Figure 2b). Then we absolutely quantified the AtGID1–GUS transcript in inflorescence stems of each line with specific probes for the GUS gene; the AtGID1b–GUS transcript surely existed in inflorescence stems of p1b::1b (Figure 2c). Next, we focused on transformants’ floral buds. We detected clear GUS activity in the stamens of all lines examined, even in p1c::1c (Figure 2b). [[FIGURE]] We had already established a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) system that showed a GA-dependent interaction between an AtGID1 and a DELLA (CITATION). Then, to evaluate the affinity for the interaction of AtGID1–DELLA in vivo, we established a yeast three-hybrid (Y3H) system that contains three molecules in yeast using a GID1 as bait (BDGID1), a DELLA as prey (ADDELLA), and another GID1 (2ndGID1) as a competitor to BDGID1. In this situation, we can easily compare the interaction affinity of ADDELLA to BDGID1 with that to 2ndGID1 by the growth of yeasts. In other words, the yeasts grow when the interaction of BDGID1–ADDELLA is stronger than that of 2ndGID1–ADDELLA (Figure 3a). Contrarily, when the interaction of BDGID1–ADDELLA is equivalent to or weaker than that of 2ndGID1–ADDELLA, the yeasts can not grow as 2ndGID1 removes ADDELLA from BDGID1 (Figure 3b). To verify the system, we examined control experiments: (i) we constructed a set of vectors in which nothing was ligated to the MCS II site of pBridge vector for 2ndGID1. All control yeasts grew on selection medium in the presence of GA (Figure S2a), similarly to the Y2H results (CITATION); and (ii) we confirmed that all yeasts carrying a set of BDGID1–ADDELLA–2ndGID1 grew on non-selection medium without GA (Figure S2b). [[FIGURE]] Results are shown in Figure 3(c). We judged the survival of yeasts in the presence of 3-AT (10–100 mm). Interestingly, when RGL2 was used as prey, all yeasts carrying BDAtGID1c were difficult to grow, regardless of whether 2ndAtGID1a or 2ndAtGID1b were adopted as a competitor. Contrarily, all yeasts carrying 2ndAtGID1c grew, regardless of whether we adopted BDAtGID1a or BDAtGID1b as a competitor. Taken together, it is understood that the interaction of AtGID1c–RGL2 was fully blocked because both AtGID1a and AtGID1b could preferentially form a complex with RGL2, while the AtGID1a–RGL2 or AtGID1b–RGL2 interaction was maintained, even in the presence of AtGID1c. RGL2 showed the lowest preference to AtGID1c among the three GID1s. In addition, RGL2 showed the highest preference to AtGID1a because the yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1a–ADRGL2–2ndAtGID1b grew while the yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1b–ADRGL2–2ndAtGID1a could not. Both RGL1 and RGL3, when used as prey, showed the lowest preference to AtGID1b among the three because yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1a/c–ADRGL1/3–2ndAtGID1b grew while yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1b–ADRGL1/3–2ndAtGID1a/c could not. Unlike the RGLs, when GAI or RGA were used as prey, both appeared to show a higher preference to AtGID1b, because the yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1b–ADGAI/RGA–2ndAtGID1a/c grew, while yeast carrying a set of BDAtGID1a/c–ADGAI/RGA–2ndAtGID1b could not. By western blotting, we successfully detected comparable amounts of both BDGID1 and 2ndGID1 proteins from all yeasts grown on selection medium (Figure S3). This situation explains the yeasts can grow because 2ndGID1 is powerless to remove ADDELLA from BDGID1 but not because the amount of 2ndGID1 is too little to function in the yeast. Here, it was clearly shown that some advantageous combinations exist for the AtGID1–DELLA interaction in yeasts. To verify the preferences of the AtGID1–DELLA interaction more directly, we analysed the interaction kinetics of both molecules in vitro by using a quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). The weight of the gold electrode film on the quartz crystal and the change in its resonance frequency are strongly related. Therefore, the QCM can detect a tiny weight change on the gold electrode where some molecules bind to the molecules on the electrode surface (CITATION; CITATION). A purified recombinant glutathione-S-transferase-fused DELLA (GSTDELLA) was immobilized onto the surface of a sensor chip. We measured the oscillation frequency of the quartz crystal on the chip when various concentrations of a purified recombinant thioredoxin-fused GID1 (TrxGID1) were added in the presence of GA4 (10 μm). As we had detected in Y3H results that RGL2 showed the lowest preference to AtGID1c among the three GID1s, we decided to focus on the AtGID1c–RGL2 combination (Figure 3c). The dissociation constant value (Kd) was calculated based on Scatchard plots obtained from sensorgrams (Figure 4). The Kd value for the TrxAtGID1c–GSTRGL2 interaction was calculated to be 1.0 × 10−7 m, which was one-tenth the affinity of the TrxAtGID1a–GSTRGL2 interaction (Kd = 1.3 × 10−8 m). We could not perform the experiments with TrxAtGID1b because of its low amount in Escherichia coli. As a reference, we also employed RGA, which showed preference to AtGID1a, comparable with preference to AtGID1c, in the Y3H assay (Figure 3c). As expected, the value for the TrxAtGID1a–GSTRGA interaction (Kd = 5.1 × 10−8 m) was very similar to that for the TrxAtGID1c–GSTRGA interaction (Kd = 8.3 × 10−8 m). Taken together from the AtGID1–DELLA combinations examined here, it is clear that their affinity values obtained from QCM and the preferences from Y3H show a very similar tendency to each other. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used three mutants (atgid1a-Ds atgid1b-Ds, atgid1a-SALK atgid1c-1, and atgid1b-Ds atgid1c-1) in this experiment. The atgid1a-1 (Ds13-1770-1), atgid1a-2 (SALK_044317), and atgid1b-1 (Ds11-3970-1) shown in our previous report (CITATION) were renamed as atgid1a-Ds, atgid1a-SALK, and atgid1b-Ds, respectively. Total RNA was isolated by using Plant RNA Isolation reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and RT reaction was setup using M-MLV Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The vectors for standard curves were constructed by inserting the coding sequences into the pGEM T-easy vector (Promega). The primers used are the same as those for constructions of vectors for the Y3H assay (for pBridge MCS I and for pGADT7 MCS in Table S1). The amount of RNA of each gene in each cDNA sample was assessed by qRT-PCR using a standard curve derived from the vector, including the corresponding gene. The Real-Time PCR instrument (Thermal Cycler Dice), reagent (SYBR Premix Ex Taq) and primer sets were obtained from Takara Bio Inc. (Shiga, Japan) and executed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The primer sequences are listed in Table S1. A standard curve from the Act2 gene was used to ensure the total amount of RNA from samples. The genomic DNA fragments, including 3 kbp upstream and the coding region of AtGID1s, were cloned into the Hind III/BamH I sites of pBI121 GUS expression binary vector (Clontech). The resulting vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium GV3010. Arabidopsis was transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). For the GUS enzymatic assay, tissue was pre-fixed in ice-cold 90% (v/v) acetone for 20 min on ice, rinsed with 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.9), vacuum infiltrated for 20 min with staining solution (100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.9), 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 10 mm potassium ferricyanide, 10 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mg ml−1 X-gluc) and incubated at 37°C for 14 h. Samples were incubated in 70% (v/v) ethanol and then decolorizing solution (ethanol:acetic acid = 6:1 (v/v)) for 2 h. Decolorized samples were viewed under a stereoscopic microscope (SZX10, Olympus). Saccharamyces cerevisiae strains AH109 and Y187, plasmids pGADT7 and pBridge were from Takara Bio Inc. pBridge was restricted with a pair of adequate restriction enzymes shown in Table S1, and used for the expression of a GID1 fused with a GAL4-BD domain (BDGID1) and another GID1 (2ndGID1). Each GID1 gene for BDGID1 was excised from the pGBKT7–GID1 plasmid already obtained for Y2H (CITATION) using EcoR I and Pst I. Their fragments were ligated into pBridge MCS I for BDGID1 and into MCS II for 2ndGID1. In-frame insertion and correctness of the sequence was verified by DNA sequencing (ABI PRISM 310 Genetic Analyzer, Applied Biosystems Inc, CA). Strain Y187 was transformed with the pBridge vector carrying BDGID1 and 2ndGID1 genes or only a BDGID1 gene, and selected on SD media without l-tryptophan and uracil. Strain AH109 carrying a plasmid pGADT7–DELLA, which was obtained previously (CITATION), grew on SD media without l-leucine, uracil, and l-methionine. By mating both strains, the transformants carrying both plasmids of pBridge and pGADT7–DELLA were selected on SD medium without l-leucine, l-tryptophan, uracil, and l-methionine. For the assay, transformants were incubated on SD media without adenine hemisulfate, l-histidine, l-leucine, l-tryptophan, uracil, and l-methionine but in the presence of GA4 and 3-aminotriazole (3-AT). Yeasts (100 mg) were lysed with 0.5 ml of Y-PER® Yeast Protein Extraction Reagent (Takara Bio Inc.) containing a protease inhibitor cocktail (Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) and Benzonase® Nuclease (Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, NJ), according to manufacturer’s instruction. Soluble proteins were subjected to chloroform–methanol precipitation and subsequently separated on SDS-PAGE (10%). Detection of BDGID1 and 2ndGID1 were performed with polyclonal anti-GID1 antiserum generated against amino acids 34–47 and 243–256 of GID1a and SuperSignal® West Dura Extended Duration Substrate (Takara Bio Inc.). Preparation of recombinant proteins was according to an expression system with E. coli described previously (CITATION) with specific primers (Table S1). Purified GSTDELLA (0.3 mg ml−1 in 50 mm Tris–HCl, pH 8.0) was immobilized onto a QCM sensor chip (Initium, Tokyo, Japan) as described in the manufacturer’s protocol. After washing with distilled water, the sensor chip was set to AFFINIX Q (Initium), and then soaked in 8 ml of 20 mm Tris–HCl, 100 mm NaCl (pH 7.6) in the presence of GA4 (10 μm). Purified TrxGID1 (0.5 mg ml−1 in 50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.0) was added stepwise to the solution, and the frequency change for QCM was monitored at 25°C. Kinetics for the interaction was analysed with AQUA (Initium) software.
