!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis gene At2g47770 encodes a membrane-bound protein designated AtTSPO (Arabidopsis thaliana TSPO-related). AtTSPO is related to the bacterial outer membrane tryptophan-rich sensory protein (TspO) and the mammalian mitochondrial 18-kDa translocator protein (18 kDa TSPO), members of the group of TspO/MBR domain-containing membrane proteins. In this study we show that AtTSPO is mainly detected in dry seeds, but can be induced in vegetative tissues by osmotic or salt stress or abscisic acid (ABA) treatment, corroborating available transcriptome data. Using subcellular fractionation, immunocytochemistry and fluorescent protein tagging approaches we present evidence that AtTSPO is targeted to the secretory pathway in plants. Induced or constitutively expressed AtTSPO can be detected in the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi stacks of plant cells. AtTSPO tagged with fluorescent protein in transgenic plants (Arabidopsis and tobacco) was mainly detected in the Golgi stacks of leaf epidermal cells. Constitutive expression of AtTSPO resulted in increased sensitivity to NaCl, but not to osmotic stress, and in reduced greening of cultured Arabidopsis cells under light growing conditions. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtTSPO were more sensitive to ABA-induced growth inhibition, indicating that constitutive expression of AtTSPO may enhance ABA sensitivity. AtTSPO is rapidly downregulated during seed imbibition, and the ABA-dependent induction in plant is transient. Downregulation of AtTSPO seems to be boosted by treatment with aminolevulinic acid. Taken together, these results suggest that AtTSPO is a highly regulated protein, induced by abiotic stress to modulate, at least in part, transient intracellular ABA-dependent stress perception and/or signalling.
!~RES~! Transcriptome analyses suggested that transcripts of the Arabidopsis gene At2g47770 are induced by salt and water stress (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As previously reported (CITATION), a database search for AtTSPO-related proteins and primary sequence analyses identified mammalian 18-kDa TSPO, bacterial TspO and related proteins having in common the so-called TspO/MBR (IPR004307) domain. The first members of this group of proteins to be identified were the R. sphaeroides TspO protein (CITATION) and the mammalian 18-kDa TSPO (CITATION; CITATION), which have been extensively characterized. Arabidopsis AtTSPO was found to be encoded by a single intronless gene, and expressed sequence tag (EST) analyses suggested that this may be the case in other angiosperms. We first compared the primary sequence of AtTSPO with those of other full-length plant proteins containing the TspO/MBR domain and with that of human 18-kDa TSPO (HsTSPO18) protein. As shown in Figure 1(a), there is about 40% amino acid identity between the plant proteins and 25% between the plant proteins and the mammalian protein. It is worth mentioning that although R. sphaeroides TspO and mammalian 18-kDa TSPO only show about 30% identity, rat TSPO can functionally replace bacterial TspO (CITATION). The plant proteins have an N-terminal extension of about 40–50 amino acids not found in the bacterial and mammalian proteins (Figure 1a). The sequence of this extension is not conserved among plant proteins, but is characterized, as in AtTSPO, by a high frequency of charged residues (24/50 residues in AtTSPO, with a net charge of +4) (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] Query of Arabidopsis transcriptome data from Genevestigator (CITATION) and BAR (the Bio-Array Resource for Arabidopsis Functional Genomics, http://www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpweb.cgi; CITATION) and other reported data (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) suggested that, under normal conditions, At2g47770 expression is highest in seeds but can be induced in vegetative tissues by salt, osmotic stress and ABA treatment. In silico analysis of the approximately 500-bp intergenic region between At2g47760 (encoding a putative mannosyltransferase) and At2g47770 for known plant cis-regulatory elements identified three ABA-responsive elements (ABRE) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 1b). We also found a GBOX (CITATION) and two IBOXes (CITATION), both common in light-regulated plant genes. Another interesting motif in this region was the recently described plastid-responsive element (PRE) consensus (G/C)CGA(C/T)N(A/G)N15(T/C/A)(A/TG) (CITATION). To investigate where and when AtTSPO function was required in the plant, we generated polyclonal antibodies against the synthetic peptide 2DSQDIRYRGGDDRDA16 and used the affinity-purified antibodies to detect the protein by Western blotting in various extracts. As shown in Figure 2(a), when a total protein extract from 10-day-old seedlings grown in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was compared with a protein extract from seeds, a band of the expected size (approximately 21 kDa) was detected in seeds but not in seedlings, suggesting that, as expected from the transcriptome data, under normal growing conditions, AtTSPO accumulates in seeds but little, if any, in young vegetative tissues. AtTSPO was not detected in rosette and cauline leaves from wild-type plants grown in soil. However, AtTSPO was detected in 10-day-old seedlings pre-incubated in the dark for 24 h in liquid MS medium containing 10 or 50 μm ABA, but not in the absence of ABA, and AtTSPO levels increased with ABA concentration (Figure 2b). Next, we investigated the effects of mannitol (osmotic stress) and NaCl (salinity stress). The final concentrations of the two chemicals in the MS medium were chosen to give the same final osmolarity. As shown in Figure 2(c,d), mannitol or NaCl treatment induced the expression of AtTSPO, and expression increased with the osmolarity of the incubating medium. To verify that the generated antibodies were a reliable tool for measuring AtTSPO levels in various tissues, we used six independent Arabidopsis transgenic lines developed by the AGRIKOLA (Arabidopsis Genomic RNAi Knock-out Line Analysis) consortium expressing the RNAi construct CATMA2a46200 directed against At2g47770 transcripts (CITATION; CITATION). As recommended by the consortium (http://www.agrikola.org), we checked by PCR that the RNAi construct was present in genomic DNA extracted from three randomly selected seedlings of each RNAi line (no. 76–82, data not shown). Wild-type seedlings and each of the RNAi lines were incubated as described above in MS liquid medium containing 50 μm ABA and the anti-AtTSPO antibodies used to probe total protein extracts. As shown in Figure 2(e) (upper panel), variable levels of AtTSPO were detected in the RNAi lines, suggesting different degrees of reduction in At2g47770 transcript levels. Since little or no AtTSPO was detected in vegetative tissues of lines 82 and 79 after ABA treatment, we examined AtTSPO levels in protein extracts of dry seeds and found that they were almost undetectable (Figure 2e, lower panel). Similar results were obtained with the offspring of the homozygous T-DNA insertional line SALK_066561C (data not shown, but see also Figure S1 in Supporting Information). These results suggest that this gene is not essential for seed development, as the knock-down or knockout plants generated viable seeds, confirming the specificity of the generated antibodies and strengthening the interpretation of ABA as a regulator of the expression of this protein in plant tissues. Salinity and osmotic stress are known to increase ABA levels in plant tissues (CITATION; CITATION;CITATION; CITATION; CITATION;CITATION), and given the presence of ABRE elements in the putative promoter region of At2g47770, the observed induction of AtTSPO by abiotic stress may be due to ABA (see also Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of AtTSPO in vegetative tissues, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants and cell lines constitutively expressing AtTSPO under the control of the p35S promoter. As shown in Figure 2(f), in the absence of ABA AtTSPO was detected in extracts from 3-week-old transgenic seedlings grown on a MS plate and in the stably transformed cultured cell lines OEC1 and OEC2. Mammalian 18-kDa TSPO is localized to the OMM and most of its cellular activities are associated with mitochondrial functions (CITATION). A recent study suggested that P. patens PpTSPO1 is a mitochondrial protein (CITATION). As shown in Figure 2, under normal growing conditions AtTSPO is not expressed in vegetative tissues or in Arabidopsis suspension cells. To determine the subcellular localization of AtTSPO in plant cells, we first took advantage of the generated AtTSPO-overexpressing plant and cell lines. We used AtTSPO-overexpressing Arabidopsis cultured cells and sucrose gradient fractionation of total microsomes to investigate which cellular membranes co-sedimented with AtTSPO. As markers we used the plasma membrane proton pump ATPase (PMA) and the vesicle soluble NSF (N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor) attachment receptor (SNARE) AtSec22, which is predicted to shuttle between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi membranes, and cytochrome c oxidase enzymatic activity as a mitochondrial marker (CITATION). Figure 3 shows representative results using line OEC1 (similar results were obtained with line OEC2). Figure 3(a) shows the immunoblotting results for the odd-numbered fractions from the gradient. The PMA peak was found in fraction 11. Interestingly, both AtSec22 and AtTSPO peaked in fraction 9, with a minor peak in fraction 17. AtTSPO peaks were clearly separate from that of cytochrome c oxidase (Figure 3b), showing that AtTSPO-enriched fractions did not co-sediment with the optimal mitochondria-enriched fraction. In addition, AtTSPO was not enriched in either purified fractions of mitochondria or plastids (see Figure S2 and Appendix S1). [[FIGURE]] These results show that, in plant cells, AtTSPO is not a plasma membrane, a mitochondrial or a chloroplastic protein, raising the possibility that, as a membrane-bound protein, it may be targeted to a subcellular compartment of the secretory pathway, as suggested by its co-sedimentation with AtSec22 in the sucrose gradient (Figure 3). To determine the in situ subcellular localization of AtTSPO, we performed an immunocytochemical study on leaf tissues of stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtTSPO. Affinity-purified anti-AtTSPO antibodies covalently linked to fluorescein were used. We checked that no labelling was detectable in wild-type and knockout plants (data not shown, see also Figure S3). As shown in Figure 4(a), AtTSPO was detected (green) in a tubular network reminiscent of the ER and in brighter punctate structures associated with the network. The latter were structurally similar to Arf1-labelled Golgi stacks in leaf cells (Figure 4b). A similar distribution of AtTSPO was obtained after immunocytochemistry in seeds or after ABA treatment of wild-type seedlings (see Figure S3). To further investigate the idea that AtTSPO-containing structures found in seeds or in leaf tissues might be organelles of the early secretory pathway (ER and Golgi), we fused yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) to the N-terminus or green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the C-terminus of AtTSPO. Each of these genetic constructs (driven by the p35S promoter) was used to stably transform Arabidopsis and tobacco resulting in constitutive expression of the fluorescent fusion protein in the plant. No transgenic plants (Arabidopsis or tobacco) were recovered when the C-terminus of AtTSPO was tagged, suggesting a counter selection event. Selected plant lines expressing YFP–AtTSPO (low or high expressers) were analysed by confocal microscopy to localize the fusion protein. Figure 4(c) shows confocal z-stack projections of optical sections from representative rosette leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis. The fusion protein (YFP–AtTSPO in magenta, chlorophyll in red) was mainly detected in mobile punctate structures in the leaf epidermal cells, reminiscent of Golgi stacks (Figure 4c). In some cells, fluorescence was also seen around the nucleus and connected tubules. Similar observations were made with transgenic tobacco plants (see also Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] To determine the nature of the punctate structures containing YFP–AtTSPO, the same construct that was used to generate transgenic plants was transiently co-expressed with the well-described plant Golgi marker ST-GFP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. Figure 5 shows a subset of still images from the movie presented as supporting information (Movie S1). The YFP–AtTSPO fluorescence perfectly co-localized with the Golgi-localized signal from ST-GFP, confirming that the punctate structures containing YFP–AtTSPO were indeed Golgi stacks. In addition, the mitochondrial dye Mitotracker red stained organelles in transgenic plants which did not co-localize with YFP–AtTSPO fluorescent structures (see Figure S4). We therefore concluded that AtTSPO is an ER–Golgi-localized membrane protein in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells are heterotrophic and, if maintained in the dark, stay yellowish and contain mostly proplastids, but become green when exposed to light as a consequence of increased chlorophyll synthesis and the development of proplastids into chloroplasts. Light-induced synthesis of chlorophyll is coordinated with that of the major light-harvesting antenna complex (CITATION). Synthesis of the proteinaceous components of the antenna scaffold increases several fold under light conditions, as chlorophyll a/b-binding proteins are required for the assembly and functionality of the antennae (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Wild-type cells or AtTSPO-overexpressing line OEC1 were transferred to agar plates and incubated for up to 6 weeks either in the dark or on a 16-h/8-h light/dark regime, and then the cells were scraped from the agar plate, resuspended in homogenization buffer and pelleted by centrifugation. As shown by the plated cells and pelleted cells (Figure 6), the colour of the wild-type and overexpressing cells was comparable when the cells were grown in the dark (lanes 1 and 2 from the left) and, when subjected to a light/dark regime, both types of cells showed greening, the extent of which was affected by the constitutive expression of AtTSPO, with the wild-type cells being greener than AtTSPO-overexpressing cells (lanes 3 and 4 from the left). Immunoblotting of protein extracts showed that neither treatment induced detectable AtTSPO in wild-type cells, but AtTSPO was readily detectable in the overexpressing cells (Figure 6). Figure 6 also shows the relative content of some chloroplast proteins in these cells (lanes 1 and 2 dark conditions; lanes 3 and 4 light/dark). As expected, Elip1 was not detected when the cultures were maintained in the dark (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, its amount was markedly reduced in AtTSPO-overexpressing cells compared with wild-type cells grown in the light. Relative levels of the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), encoded by the chloroplast genome, and of Lhca2 (a component of the light-harvesting complex of photosystem I) and Lhcb1, both encoded by the nuclear genome, were reduced in AtTSPO-overexpressing cells, suggesting that constitutive expression of AtTSPO affected, through an as yet unknown mechanism, the accumulation of key components involved in chloroplast function in these non-phototrophic cells. This was more striking for Lhcb1, as the mature form of the protein was not detected in AtTSPO-expressing cells after light induction. Similar results were obtained with the second transgenic cell line OEC2 (data not shown). To correlate the variation in greening with pigment content, we compared the chlorophyll content of wild-type and OEC1 cells grown under the light/dark regime. As shown in the bottom panel of Figure 6, the wild-type cells had about 50% more total chlorophyll (a and b) than AtTSPO-overexpressing cells, with a approximately 2.5-fold increase in chlorophyll a but only a marginal difference in chlorophyll b. These results indicate that the variation in greening between the wild-type and AtTSPO-overexpressing cells was mainly due to the chlorophyll a content and that the normally strictly regulated chlorophyll a/chlorophyll b ratio in photosynthetic plant cells (CITATION) was drastically modified by constitutive expression of AtTSPO in these cultured cells. [[FIGURE]] AtTSPO is transcriptionally regulated by abiotic stress (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We checked whether constitutive expression of AtTSPO confers any advantage or disadvantage to cells in the presence of such stress. To this end, suspension-cultured Arabidopsis cells were spotted on agar medium and allowed to grow into calli in the dark on culture medium containing increasing concentrations of NaCl. Osmotic stress alone was applied by incorporating increasing amounts of mannitol into agar-containing culture medium; the cells were spread on these plates and incubated under the light/dark regime described above. After 6 weeks in the dark, wild-type cells were able to grow and form visible calli in the presence of up to 100 mm NaCl, with substantially reduced growth at higher concentrations (Figure 7a). In contrast, the growth of AtTSPO-overexpressing cells (OEC1 and OEC2) was already drastically impaired at 50 mm NaCl. AtTSPO-overexpressing cells did not survive in the presence of 150 mm NaCl or higher concentrations, while some viable wild-type cells could be seen in the presence of 150 mm NaCl (Figure 7a). This shows that AtTSPO overexpression increases the sensitivity of cultured cells to NaCl. We found that on average AtTSPO-overexpressing cells were larger than the wild-type cells (see Figure S5). To ascertain whether AtTSPO-overexpressing cells were more sensitive to Na+ toxicity or to the osmotic stress induced by salinity, we checked their sensitivity to mannitol-induced osmotic stress. Constitutive expression of AtTSPO appeared to attenuate the effect of a high concentration of mannitol on cell survival (Figure 7b). The growth of OEC1 cells was less impaired at 400 or 500 mm mannitol than that of wild-type cells. These observations suggest that the increased sensitivity to NaCl has more to do with Na+ toxicity than the water stress generated by increasing NaCl concentration in the culture medium. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the increased sensitivity to NaCl as a consequence of overexpressing AtTSPO was not a peculiarity of cultured cells, we also compared the sensitivity to NaCl of the knockout line, the wild type and a homozygous AtTSPO-overexpressing line (Figure 7c). Ten-day-old seedlings were allowed to develop on increasing NaCl concentrations. No striking growth difference was apparent between the three genotypes on control medium or at 50 mm NaCl (Figure 7c). The overexpressing plants showed more sensitivity to NaCl with reduced leaf development and root branching at 100 mm, with most of the plants dying after a week’s exposure to 150 mm NaCl (Figure 7c). Another intriguing observation was the increased sensitivity of AtTSPO-overexpressing plants to ABA-dependent growth inhibition, as compared to knockout and wild-type plants (Figure 8). Taken together, our results suggest that salinity and ABA may induce AtTSPO, but paradoxically constitutive expression of AtTSPO increases sensitivity to NaCl and ABA. This raises the possibility that AtTSPO may only be temporarily required by the cells in vegetative tissues and hence possibly rapidly downregulated after induction. [[FIGURE]] A time-course experiment was conducted to investigate the kinetics of AtTSPO induction by ABA (Figure 9a). After incubation of 10-day-old seedlings in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 50 μm ABA, detection of AtTSPO seems to peak around 24 h and steadily decline thereafter to become almost undetectable after 72 h. We observed substantial bleaching of the leaves during this ABA treatment, materialized by the degradation of the large subunit of Rubisco (Figure 9a, bottom panel, arrowheads). We checked by Western blotting that these protein bands corresponded to the degradation products of Rubisco large subunit (data not shown). We wonder if degradation of AtTSPO like that of Rubisco was consecutive to ABA-induced bleaching of the tissues or a result of an additional regulatory mechanism to reduce AtTSPO levels. We consistently found that, when overexpressed, AtTSPO and YFP–AtTSPO in the leaves were mainly detectable in the epidermis (poor in chloroplasts) and hardly detected in mesophyll cells (rich in chloroplasts) (DG and HB, unpublished data, see also Figure 4a,c). This circumstantial evidence of possible cell type-dependent stability of the protein and the published evidence that the endogenous ligand of TspO/MBR domain-containing proteins includes porphyrins (CITATION; CITATION) prompted us to check whether boosting porphyrin metabolism had any effect on the stability of AtTSPO in plant cells. Figure 9(b) clearly shows that incubating Arabidopsis cultured cells overexpressing AtTSPO with the porphyrin biosynthesis precursor 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) resulted in a reduction of detectable AtTSPO of up to 70% after 48 h in the dark. We also followed the AtTSPO content of wild-type seeds imbibing in water (control) or water supplemented with ALA. Here again we found that seed imbibition in the presence of ALA significantly enhanced AtTSPO degradation compared with seeds imbibing in water. These results suggest that porphyrins may be responsible for downregulating AtTSPO levels in plant cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Col-O) seeds were disinfected in a laminar flow hood by pouring 70% ethanol containing 0.01% Triton 100, followed by 100% ethanol, on the seeds spread on a sterile filter paper. The seeds were allowed to dry, then resuspended in 0.1% agar and finally spread on half-strength MS agar plates containing 1% sucrose, with or without selective antibiotics. The seeds were stratified for 2–3 days at 4°C in the dark, and transferred to 16-h/8-h light/dark conditions in a growth chamber (22–25°C, 90 μmol photons sec−1 m−2). After germination and growth for 10 days on the agar plate, the seedlings were either transferred to Jiffy pots (http://www.jiffypot.com) for further growth in soil (23–26°C, 16-h/8-h light/dark, 70–80 μmol photons sec−1 m−2) or subjected to various treatments as specified. Arabidopsis cell cultures (CITATION) (a gift from Dr D. Inzé, VIB, University of Ghent, Belgium) were maintained in the dark on a rotary shaker with constant agitation and diluted 10-fold weekly in freshly sterilized MS minimal organics (MSMO) culture medium (Sigma no. M6899, 4.43 g L−1, adjusted to pH 5.7 with KOH, 3% sucrose, 50 μg L−1 of kinetin, 500 μg L−1 of 1-naphthalene acetic acid; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). Standard molecular biology protocols (CITATION) were followed. All genetic constructs were validated by sequencing. The full-length cDNA encoding AtTSPO was obtained from RIKEN (clones RAFL09-68-G14 and RAFL05-18-I12). The YFP–AtTSPO was constructed by overlapping PCR. The AtTSPO coding sequence was PCR-amplified using AtTSPO5′-5′GGAGCTGGTGGAGCTGGTATGGATTCTCAGGACATC and AtTSPO3′-5′ATAAAGATCTTCACGCGACTGCAAGCTTTA and that of monomeric YFP (CITATION) was amplified using YFP5′-5′AATATCTAGAACCATGTATCCATACGATGTTCCAG and YFP3′-5′ACCAGCTCCACCAGCTCCGGCGGCGGTCACGAACTCCAG. AtTSPO and YFP PCR fragments were combined and the fusion cDNA amplified using AtTSPO3′ and YFP5′. This final PCR product was digested with XbaI/BglII and cloned into pVKH18-En6-ST-GFP (CITATION; CITATION) digested with XbaI/BamHI. AtTSPO–GFP was constructed by PCR amplifying the AtTSPO coding sequence with AtTSPOG5′-5′TAATTCTAGAACAATGGATTCTCAGGACATCAG and AtTSPOG3′-5′ATAACTCGAGTTCGCGACTGCAAGCTTTACATTAAC. The PCR product was digested with XbaI/XhoI and cloned into pVKH18-En6-ST-GFP digested with XbaI/SalI. In both fusion proteins, the linker GAGAGAG (single amino acid code) was added between AtTSPO and the fluorescent protein. To generate the AtTSPO-overexpressing cassette, AtTSPO cDNA was PCR-amplified using SeM5′-5′AAATCTAGAAAGCTTATGGATTCTCAGGACATCAG and SeM3′-5′ AAATCTAGAAAGCTTATGGATTCTCAGGACATCAG. The PCR fragment was digested with XbaI/BglII and cloned into pPily (CITATION) digested with XbaI/BamHI to generate pPily-AtTSPO. The expression cassette (driven by a double p35S promoter) in pPily was retrieved by Acc65I digestion and subcloned into pCAMBIA 1300 digested with the same enzyme. All plasmids were amplified in Escherichia coli strain DH5α and, for plant cell transformation, the plasmid was mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 containing the Ti plasmid pMP90 (a gift from Dr C. Koncz, MPI, Cologne, Germany). Arabidopsis plant transformation was performed essentially as described by CITATION. Transient expression in tobacco leaf was performed as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis cultured cells were transformed using an adapted protocol for BY2 cells (CITATION) and selected on 15 μg ml−1 of hygromycin. Resistant calli were screened by Western blotting for AtTSPO expression and used to reinitiate suspension cell cultures. All homogenization and centrifugation steps were at 4°C. Cells (23 g) were harvested from a 7-day-old suspension cell culture and homogenized in buffer H [300 mm sucrose, 25 mm HEPES, pH 8.0, 10 mm KCl, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 2 μg ml−1 of other protease inhibitors (leupeptin, aprotinin, antipain, pepstatin and chymostatin)] in a blender (3 × 15-sec pulses). The homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth filter paper (Calbiochem, http://splash.emdbiosciences.com/) and centrifuged for 20 min at 5200 g, then the supernatant was loaded on a 50% (w/w) sucrose cushion (in 25 mm HEPES pH 7.2, 50 mm KCl, 1 mm MgCl2), and the sample centrifuged for 2 h at 96 281 g (average) in a SW32 rotor (Beckman, http://www.beckman.com/). The subcellular membranes at the interface were recovered and the sample adjusted to 25% (w/w) sucrose, then loaded on a continuous 30–50% (w/w) sucrose gradient and centrifuged for 16 h at 28 000 rpm in SW32.1 rotor (Beckman). Thirty fractions of 500 μl were collected from the bottom of the tube using a peristaltic pump and analysed. For immunodetection, the proteins in 250 μl of each fraction were precipitated using 10% trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and centrifugation for 20 min at 20 000 gin a microcentrifuge. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet resuspended in Laemmli buffer. Antibodies against Lhcb1, Lhca2, Elip1, rbcL, AtSec21 and AtArf1 were purchased from AgriSera (http://www.agrisera.com/), while the horseradish peroxidase-coupled anti-rabbit secondary antibodies were from Sigma. Antibodies against S59 and H+-ATPase were provided by Dr Marc Boutry (Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium). Antiserum against AtSec22 (isoform At1g11890) was generated in a rabbit using the synthetic peptide 19GLDDGRDLPDSDMYK33 (Eurogentec, http://www.eurogentec.com/). Polyclonal anti-AtTSPO antibodies were raised against the synthetic peptide 2DSQDIRYRGGDDRDA16 and affinity-purified using the same peptide (Eurogentec). For Western blotting, anti-Lhcb1, Lhca2, AtSec21 and Elip1 were used at 1:2000, anti-rbcL at 1:3000, AtSec22 antiserum at 1:300, anti-AtTSPO at 1:5000, anti-rabbit secondary antibody at 1:10 000. For immunocytochemistry, 10-day-old seedlings were fixed and immunolabelled essentially as described by CITATION. The anti-AtTSPO antibodies were used at a 1:200 dilution and anti Arabidopsis Arf1 at 1:50 dilution. The probed samples were mounted in the antifade reagent Prolong Gold (Molecular Probes-Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/site/us/en/home/brands/Molecular-Probes.html). Total plant proteins were extracted in Plant CellLytic buffer (Sigma) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The extraction buffer was supplemented with 1 mm PMSF and 2 μg ml−1 of other protease inhibitors (leupeptin, aprotinin, antipain, pepstatin, chymostatin). Disruption of cultured cells (and occasionally plant tissues) was performed at room temperature (20–22°C) in a Precellys24 apparatus (Bertin Technologies, http://www.bertin.fr/) using 500 μm glass beads (1 mm ceramic beads for plant tissue). Seeds were homogenized at room temperature (20–22°C) in a mortar and pestle in 2× Laemmli buffer supplemented with PMSF and protease inhibitors. After homogenization, cell debris was pelleted by centrifugation for 15 min at full speed (20 000 g) in a cooled microcentrifuge and the supernatant used immediately for SDS-PAGE or stored at −20°C for subsequent use, after protein quantification by the Bradford, Lowry or BCA method. Routinely, the proteins were electrophoresed on a 12% SDS-PAGE resolving gel in a Mini-Protean 3 apparatus (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/). For standard Western blotting, after electrophoresis, the proteins were electrotransferred to a PVDF membrane (Millipore, http://www.millipore.com/) using a semi-dry system (Bio-Rad) or by standard wet transfer in 50 mm 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS), 40 mm glycine, 0.0375% (w/v) SDS and 20% methanol. The blot was blocked at room temperature for at least 45 min using 5% (w/v) low fat dried milk dissolved in TRIS-buffered saline (TBS, 50 mm TRIS, 150 mm NaCl, pH 7.6) containing 0.5% (v/v) Tween 20 (saturation buffer). Primary antibody incubation was performed at 4°C overnight in saturation buffer. After several washes of the blot with TBS containing 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20 and 0.5% (w/v) milk, second antibody incubation was performed at room temperature for 1–3 h, followed by ECL detection (Roche Diagnostics, http://www.roche.com/). The emitted light was captured using a Kodak Image Station 4000R and, when required, relative band intensity was measured using Kodak 1D Image Analysis software (Eastman KODAK Company, http://www.kodak.com/). Confocal images were acquired using a Fluoview1000 confocal microscope (Olympus, Life and Material Science Europa, http://www.olympus-europa.com/) or the Zeiss 710 confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/). The GFP was excited with the 458 nm line of an argon multilaser. The YFP was excited with the 515 nm (Olympus) or the 514 (Zeiss 710) line of an argon multilaser. The emitted fluorescence was collected between 476 and 500 nm (GFP) and between 530 and 570 nm (YFP) using the spectrum separation function (Olympus) or the online fingerprinting acquisition mode (Zeiss 710). Chlorophyll autofluorescence was collected between 650 and 750 nm using the standard Alexafluor 633 settings. We checked that there was no cross-talk between the GFP and YFP signals when imaged simultaneously using these settings. For ABA treatment, 10-day-old seedlings grown on MS agar plates were bathed in half-strength MS liquid medium [MSMO; MS salts with 25 mm 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid (MES), 2.2 g L−1, pH 5.7] containing appropriate concentrations of ABA for 24, 48 or 72 h in the dark on a rotary shaker with constant agitation. Abscisic acid-dependent growth inhibition was observed in seedlings germinated and grown on MS/2 solid medium supplemented with ABA for 2 weeks. For stress treatment, seeds were germinated on MS/2 solid medium for 10 days before being transferred to MS/2 medium containing either NaCl or mannitol for 1 week. Seedlings were then harvested for total protein extraction. The sensitivity of plants to NaCl was observed by transferring 5-day-old seedlings, grown vertically, to MS/2 medium containing an appropriate concentration of NaCl. In the case of Arabidopsis cultured cells, 1-week-old wild-type and AtTSPO-overexpressing cells were plated or spotted on solid MSMO media with or without NaCl or mannitol. The plates were then incubated either in the dark (NaCl) and in a growth chamber with a 16-h/8-h light/dark regime at 22–25°C. Chlorophyll extraction and quantification were performed essentially as described by CITATION. Feeding with ALA (Sigma) was accomplished by adding 100 μm (from a sterilized 100 mm stock solution) of the reagent to 5 ml of a freshly subcultured OEC1 cell line in liquid culture, and incubating in the dark. Two millilitres of cell suspension was sampled daily and processed for protein extraction and analyses. Seeds imbibition was accomplished in water with or without 10 mm ALA in the dark at room temperature (20–22°C), and sampled accordingly for protein extraction and analysis.
