!~ABS~! RADICAL-INDUCED CELL DEATH1 (RCD1) is an important regulator of stress and hormonal and developmental responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. Together with its closest homolog, SIMILAR TO RCD-ONE1 (SRO1), it is the only Arabidopsis protein containing the WWE domain, which is known to mediate protein–protein interactions in other organisms. Additionally, these two proteins contain the core catalytic region of poly-ADP-ribose transferases and a conserved C-terminal domain. Tissue and subcellular localization data indicate that RCD1 and SRO1 have partially overlapping functions in plant development. In contrast mutant data indicate that rcd1 has defects in plant development, whereas sro1 displays normal development. However, the rcd1 sro1 double mutant has severe growth defects, indicating that RCD1 and SRO1 exemplify an important genetic principle – unequal genetic redundancy. A large pair-wise interaction test against the REGIA transcription factor collection revealed that RCD1 interacts with a large number of transcription factors belonging to several protein families, such as AP2/ERF, NAC and basic helix–loop–helix (bHLH), and that SRO1 interacts with a smaller subset of these. Full genome array analysis indicated that in many cases targets of these transcription factors have altered expression in the rcd1 but not the sro1 mutant. Taken together RCD1 and SRO1 are required for proper plant development.
!~RES~! In order to probe the function of the RCD1 and SRO1 proteins, yeast two-hybrid screening was undertaken using full-length RCD1 and SRO1 proteins as baits. Eleven unique RCD1 and four SRO1 interaction partners were isolated (Table 1). The majority of them (7 out of 11, Table 1) were TFs belonging to the DREB, NAC, basic helix–loop–helix and constans-like zinc finger-containing families. The predominant interaction partner that was isolated was DREB2A, a TF that belongs to the AP2/ERF TF family and has a central role in the ABA-independent pathway in acclimation to salt and osmotic stress and high temperatures (CITATION; CITATION). DREB2A represented about 1000 of the 1200 colonies isolated with RCD1 and it was also the predominant clone among the 370 colonies discovered with SRO1. Abbreviations: TF, transcription factor; LIB, result of the library screen (LexA-based); REGIA, results of the pairwise interaction test (GAL4-based); FL, full-length RCD1; WP, truncated RCD1 protein containing only the WWE and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) domains (amino acids 1–471); PCT, truncated RCD1 protein containing only the PARP and C-terminal domain (amino acids 241–589); NA, not available in the REGIA collection. To overcome the technical difficulties presented by the abundance of DREB2A and to address the specificity of interaction within the TF families, we utilized the REGIA collection of 1394 Arabidopsis TFs (http://www.jicgenomelab.co.uk/libraries/arabidopsis/tf.html; (CITATION; FT, manuscript in preparation). This allowed high-throughput pair-wise interaction tests against RCD1 and SRO1. Screening of the REGIA collection confirmed that RCD1 interacts with a large number of TFs (Table 1). Of the seven TFs isolated in the library screen, all five present in the REGIA collection were positive for interaction with RCD1 (Table 1). In order to be included in Table 1, the interaction partners were required to show growth in the yeast two-hybrid screen with full-length RCD1 or SRO1 on both –Ade and –His selection, and to be positive for β-galactosidase assay. Of the total of 46 RCD1-interacting and 3 SRO1-interacting TFs identified, the 19 listed in Table 1 met these stringency criteria. Several other proteins not meeting these strict criteria were also isolated, including proteins involved in processes known to be relevant to rcd1 mutant phenotypes, such as PIF3, MYC2 and COL9 (very similar to strongly RCD1-interacting COL10) which only interacted with truncated RCD1 lacking the WWE domain. A subset of these observed interactions was verified in an in vitro system using recombinant RCD1 and glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-fused TFs. Recombinant RCD1 and four representative RCD1-interacting proteins, each from a distinct TF family, were bacterially expressed, purified and tested. Capture of DREB2A–GST, STO–GST and COL10–GST with GSH beads and subsequent detection in a western blot with a peptide anti-RCD1 antibody directed against the RCD1 C-terminus resulted in the expected RCD1 band of 65.7 kDa (Figure S1 in Supporting Information). Additionally, DREB2A–GST exhibits a smaller approximately 47 kDa band which probably represents an RCD1 degradation product. Exceptionally, the MYB91–GST band appeared as a high molecular weight aggregate. Lack of signal in the GST control (Figure S1) and the unpurified bacterial lysate (not shown) indicates the specificity of the assay. We conclude that the interaction of RCD1 with DREB2A–GST, STO–GST, MYB91–GST and COL10–GST was confirmed in this in vitro binding assay. To map interaction domains, RCD1 truncations were created and assayed with partners identified in the REGIA screen. Interaction was assayed with full-length RCD1 protein (FL), a C-terminal truncation, WWE plus PARP (WP) equivalent to the predicted truncated proteins in rcd1 mutant alleles (Figure 1) and an N-terminal truncation PARP plus C-terminus (PCT) resembling the shorter gene family members SRO2–SRO5 (Table 1). In all cases the RCD1 C-terminus was required for interactions (Table 1). SRO1 exhibited the same pattern with its three interaction partners from the REGIA interaction test. Tissue-level localization of RCD1 and SRO1 was determined by GUS staining visualizing the distribution of promoter activities with promoter::UidA fusions (Figure 2). RCD1 and SRO1 promoters exhibited similar activity patterns. Their expression was highest in young developing tissues, such as young leaves and root tips (Figure 2a,b,k,l). In fully developed mature tissue RCD1 and SRO1 promoters were active in vascular and perivascular tissues in the veins of leaves, petioles and the root vascular column (Figure 2c–f,i,j). Additionally, in leaves, RCD1, and to a lesser extent SRO1, promoter activity was visible in stomatal guard cells (Figure 2g,h). [[FIGURE]] Subcellular localizations of RCD1 and SRO1 were investigated by transient expression of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusions in onion epidermal cells. In Figure S2 both RCD1 and SRO1 were located exclusively in the nucleus, while the YFP control was located in both nucleus and cytoplasm. In addition to the two ethane methyl sulfonate (EMS) alleles, rcd1-1 and rcd1-2, which both result in a premature stop codon and thus predicted truncated proteins (CITATION; CITATION), we characterized the RCD1 insertion alleles rcd1-3 and rcd1-4, and the only known SRO1 allele sro1-1, which has a T-DNA-insertion close to the 3′ end of the coding sequence. The position of these mutations relative to RCD1 and SRO1 protein features is depicted in Figure 1. The transcripts present in these mutants were assayed by real-time quantitative (q)PCR (Figure S3). The rcd1-3 and sro1 mutants result in predicted truncated proteins; only rcd1-4 is a transcriptional null. The mutant phenotypes of rcd1 have been previously characterized (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and include alterations in stress sensitivity, gene expression and development (Table S1). Generally, all rcd1 alleles are identical in phenotype. The sro1 mutant, on the other hand, is visually indistinguishable from wild type and has, if any, only a few subtle phenotypes, which are opposite to those of rcd1 (Table S1, Figure 3; Sachin Teotia and Rebecca S. Lamb, Ohio State University, USA, personal communication). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional redundancy of RCD1 and SRO1, an rcd1 sro1 double mutant was created. Initial screens of rcd1 × sro1 F2 populations grown on soil failed to identify double mutants; plants with a growth phenotype more severe than rcd1 were present but genotyping revealed they were rcd1−/−sro1+/−. Germination and growth in sterile culture on sugar-containing media enabled the rescue of the rcd1 sro1 double mutant, which was confirmed by PCR genotyping (not shown). The double mutant had an extremely stunted phenotype and rcd1−/−sro1+/− had an intermediate stunted phenotype (Figure 3a). These plants, when rescued by germination on plates, could be transplanted to soil and grown to maturity (Figure 3b). However, the double mutant remained stunted, had deformed leaves and other developmental defects, and typically produced only one or two siliques resulting in very few seeds. This indicates a redundant function for RCD1 and SRO1 that is essential for plant development. Microarray hybridization was performed with rcd1 and sro1 mutant alleles. All alleles of rcd1 had similar gene expression profiles, thus data analysis was performed with data pooled from all of them (see Table S2 and Appendix S1). In total, 517 genes exhibited altered expression in rcd1 (252 with increased expression, 265 with reduced expression), whereas sro1 had only one gene (At5g11330) with a significant difference in regulation compared with wild type (Col-0). However, differential expression of this gene in sro1 could not be verified by real time quantitative PCR (qPCR; data not shown). In addition, expression of several other genes, with significance close to the P < 0.05 cut-off, was tested with qPCR and only one of these, a thylakoidal APX (tAPX; At1g77490), exhibited consistently lower mRNA abundance in sro1 in comparison to the wild type (Table 2). NR, no reproducible data could be obtained for this gene; NA, not available. Fifteen marker genes from several functional categories were selected for microarray data validation by qPCR (Table 2). Marker genes related to salicylic acid (SA) signaling, DREB2A target genes and stress, all processes specifically related to rcd1 phenotypes, were used for confirmation. In general the array and qPCR data were in agreement, but with slightly larger fold changes for some genes in the qPCR assay (Table 2). The literature and gene expression databases were mined for data identifying the target genes of RCD1-interacting TFs (Table 1), or processes known to be affected in rcd1. When available, these data were used to test for gene enrichment within the differentially expressed genes in rcd1. The control comparison of target genes for two TFs not interacting with RCD1, HY5 and LEC2 (CITATION; CITATION), did not show significant enrichment (P = 0.26 and 0.19, respectively) in the rcd1 differentially regulated genes (Table S2). DREB2A target genes identified in CITATION were significantly over-represented in the list of genes with altered regulation in the rcd1 mutant (Table S2; P = 3.76 × 10−6). Furthermore, the qPCR data validated lower expression levels of several DREB2A target genes in rcd1 (Table 2). Several RCD1-interacting TFs (PIF5, PIF7, COL9, COL10 and STO) belong to families known to play a role in light responses (CITATION; CITATION). Experimental data identifying target genes of these TFs are not available. However, for PIF3 (a close family member to PIF5 and PIF7), which interacted with the truncated RCD1 lacking the WWE domain, there is a data set describing PIF3-dependent red light-regulated genes (CITATION). These genes were significantly enriched in the rcd1 gene expression data (Table S2; P = 1.25 × 10−3). This suggests that RCD1 could be involved in light responses. The RCD1-regulated genes exhibited a statistically significant enrichment of genes that are expressed to lower levels in 35S:MYC2 (Table S2; P = 5.23 × 10−6). MYC2 was positive for interaction with RCD1 in the REGIA screen, however, only with the truncated RCD1 lacking the WWE domain (PCT). MYC2 is a regulator of ABA and JA responses (CITATION) and is required for paraquat tolerance (CITATION), which relate to rcd1 phenotypes. RCD1 interacted with TGA2 (Table 1), a regulator of SA-responsive genes (CITATION). We tested the expression of several known TF regulators of SA responses as well as the classical SA marker gene PR1 with qPCR (Table 2). WRKY25, a negative regulator of the SA response (CITATION), had increased expression in rcd1. In contrast the SA-positive regulators WRKY54 and WRKY70 (CITATION) and the downstream response gene PR1 had lower expression levels. The expression data set was further analyzed for enrichment of gene ontology (GO) classes in rcd1 (Table S3). Among the most enriched biological processes were abiotic stress, cold, temperature, osmotic stress, salt and water deprivation. The cellular component classifications most enriched were the extracellular region, proteasome complex, apoplast and cell wall. To further dissect the individual functions of RCD1 and SRO1, promoter swap and complementation studies were undertaken for three representative rcd1 phenotypes. We tested the ability of RCD1 driven by its own promoter and SRO1 driven by the RCD1 promoter to complement two alleles of rcd1 and assessed flowering time, the expression of several marker genes and paraquat tolerance (Figure 4, Table S4). [[FIGURE]] In all experiments, under the control of its own promoter, RCD1 fully complemented both rcd1-2 and rcd1-4 for all three phenotypes tested (Figure 4a–c, Table S4). In contrast, there was great variation in the ability of SRO1 to functionally replace RCD1. The rcd1 early flowering phenotype was fully or nearly fully complemented by SRO1 (Figure 4a). Varied degrees of partial complementation were seen for the expression of the marker gene ANAC087 (Figure 4b), as well as other marker genes (Table S4). However, SRO1 provided no functional compensation for rcd1 in the paraquat tolerance assay (Figure 4c). As a control, RCD1 and SRO1 protein levels were analyzed from wild-type, rcd1 and sro1 mutants, complemented rcd1 mutant, and promoter swap lines by western blot using an RCD1-specific antibody (Figure 4d). Surprisingly, neither the wild type nor the transgenically expressed proteins could be detected, even when full complementation of mutant phenotypes was achieved (Figure 4a–c). Detection was tested with two different peptide antibodies targeted for the N- and C-termini of RCD1, antibodies raised against denatured and native full-length recombinant RCD1, as well as a commercial antibody against the hemagglutinin (HA)-tag present in the complementation constructs (data not shown). Additionally, anti-GFP and anti-Myc antibodies were tested to detect a constitutively expressed tagged RCD1 in several independent plant lines, with the same result (not shown). A bacterially produced recombinant RCD1 protein dilution series (Figure 4e) demonstrated that 5 ng of RCD1 protein could be detected with the antibody used in Figure 4(d). The results presented above suggest the importance of the C-terminal regions of RCD1 or SRO1. Alignment of RCD1 and SRO1 proteins with RCD1-like sequences from grape, poplar, rice and Physcomitrella identified a highly conserved domain at the C-terminal end of these proteins corresponding to amino acids 494–569 in RCD1 and 493–568 in SRO1 (Figure 5). It also bears homology to TBP-ASSOCIATED FACTOR 4 (TAF4) and TAF4b, which are components of the transcription initiation factor complex TFIID (CITATION). This region of TAF4 that is related to RCD1 and SRO1 is, however, different from the conserved TAF4 superfamily-defining domain (Pfam 05236). This new domain is named the RST (RCD1 SRO TAF4) domain and has been registered with Pfam. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were sown on 1:1 peat–vermiculite mixture, stratified for 2 days and grown in controlled environment chambers (Weiss Bio1300; Weiss Gallenkamp, http://www.weiss-gallenkamp.com/) with 12-h/12-h day/night cycle, temperature 22°C/19°C, relative humidity 70%/90%. All experiments were performed with 3-week-old plants unless otherwise stated. T-DNA insertion lines for rcd1-3 (SALK_116432), rcd1-4 (GABI_229D11) and sro1-1 (SALK_074525) were obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://arabidopsis.info/) and the insertions were verified with the primers listed in Table S5. Double mutants were generated by crossing sro1 and rcd1-3 and genotyped in the F2 generation with insertion-specific primers. Molecular cloning procedures and generation of transgenic plants are described in Appendix S1. Construction of the yeast two-hybrid library is described in Appendix S1. Yeast transformations and screens were conducted according to the HybridHunter manual (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) using the L40 yeast strain and LexA DBD fusions of RCD1 and SRO1 in pHybLex as bait. For each screen, approximately 200 000–500 000 colony-forming units (c.f.u.) of tryptophan auxotrophic yeast was plated on –His selection, in the case of RCD1 supplemented with 10 mm 3-aminotriazole (3AT; Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) to remove autoactivation. Colonies were picked after 4 days of growth at 28°C and tested for β-galactosidase activity according to the HybridHunter manual. Putative interaction partners in the pYESTrp2 library plasmid were identified by sequencing. For confirmation, plasmids were transformed back into yeast and assayed again for His auxotrophy and β-galactosidase activity. Empty vectors were used as controls for the selection conditions. The screening of the REGIA collection was done following procedures described by CITATION, except that only one DBD construct at a time was tested against the whole REGIA collection. In short, the RCD1 or SRO1 GAL4 DBD fusion constructs in pDEST32 were transformed to PJ69-4α (MATα) and mated with the mating type MATA yeast containing the REGIA collection in pDEST22 (GAL4 AD fusion) on 15 individual plates in 12 × 8 grid format (exemplified in Figure S4). After selection for the presence of both vectors, the interaction test was done at 20°C on SD –Trp –Leu –His (+10 mm 3AT for RCD1) and SD –Trp –Leu –Ade. The growth of yeast was followed for up to 6 days and positive colonies were subjected to β-galactosidase assay. The interaction test was done twice for both proteins and only those putative interaction partners that were positive in both screens, for both histidine and adenine auxotrophy, as well as for β-galactosidase assay were selected for analysis. The results were verified by picking the interaction partners found in the interaction tests from the REGIA Escherichia coli entry vector collection in pDONR201, purifying the plasmids and sequencing the insert. Inserts were then transferred again to pDEST22 and the interaction test was performed with the same conditions as the original screen. RCD1 and SRO1 promoter activity was assessed from plants transformed with promoter::UidA fusions prepared as detailed in Appendix S1. The GUS staining of 14-day-old plants was done according to CITATION. Leaf and root samples for cross-sectioning were embedded in plastic using the Leica Historesin Embedding Kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com/). Plants were oriented using Ben Scheres’ oriented sections method (http://www.bio.uu.nl/mg/pd/). The GUS staining was visualized using Leica MZ10F and Leica DML microscopes equipped with a Leica DFC490 camera. Constitutively expressed RCD1 and SRO1 YFP fusions were constructed as detailed in Appendix S1. The plasmid was coated onto 1.6 μm gold (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) and bombarded into onion epidermal cells with a Helios Gene gun (Bio-Rad). The peels were floated on ½ MS medium at room temperature (27°C) in the dark for 12 h and fluorescence was observed a with Leica TCS SP 5 confocal microscope. Images were analyzed using Bitplane Imaris 6.2 (http://www.bitplane.com/). The RNA was isolated according to CITATION and treated with DNase I (MBI Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com/). Real-time quantitative PCR was performed as previously described with the primers listed in Table S5 (CITATION). Four biological replicates were used from Col-0, rcd1-1, rcd1-3, rcd1-4 and sro1. To avoid introducing bias, dye labeling was reversed in two of the four individual hybridizations per mutant. Probe labeling and hybridization protocols and raw data files are available from the ArrayExpress database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/microarray-as/ae/, accession E-MEXP-1949). The detailed procedure for data analysis is presented in Appendix S1. Plants were germinated as described above and 12 individuals of each accession were transferred on the same growth medium to 5 × 5 cm pots, one plant per pot, and placed randomly in the chamber. Plant positions were randomized every 3 days to minimize effects of chamber position. The plants were monitored daily and the day of bud emergence was recorded. Leaf disks were cut from 4-week-old soil-grown plants (eight disks/genotype) and floated on distilled water containing 1.0 μm paraquat (methyl viologen; Sigma-Aldrich) under low light (<100 μmol m−2 sec−1) for 30 h. Chlorophyll a retention was used as the measure of paraquat tolerance: pigments were extracted with 80% acetone containing 0.01% (w/v) MgCO3 and the absorbance at 663 nm was used to indicate the chlorophyll a content of the leaf disk. The experiment was repeated three times with similar results. Proteins were extracted by grinding 100 mg of frozen seedlings (7 days old) with sea sand in 100 μl of protein extraction buffer (CITATION) supplemented with 50 μm MG132. Thirty to 50 μg of total proteins was separated by 10% SDS–PAGE and transferred into PVDF membranes (Bio-Rad). The membranes were blocked in 5% milk powder in 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-saline buffer and probed with RCD1-specific antibody. Horseradish peroxidase-conjugated donkey anti-rabbit IgG (GE Healthcare, http://www6.gelifesciences.com/) was used as a secondary antibody and the signal was visualized by SuperSignal West Pico enhanced luminescence reagents (Pierce, now part of ThermoFisher Scientific, http://www.piercenet.com/). RCD1-specific antibody was raised in rabbit against a peptide QNQPKSKEIPGS corresponding to residues 567–578 of RCD1 (Sigma-Genosys). The antibody was purified using protein A-Sepharose (GE Healthcare). The sensitivity of the antibody was tested by dilution series of recombinant His-tagged protein produced in E. coli. Additional antibodies used are described in Appendix S1.
