!~ABS~! PEX7 is a soluble import receptor that recognizes peroxisomal targeting signal type 2 (PTS2)-containing proteins. In the present study, using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein of PEX7 (GFP-PEX7), we analyzed the molecular function and subcellular localization of PEX7 in Arabidopsis thaliana. The overexpression of GFP-PEX7 resulted in defective glyoxysomal fatty acid β-oxidation, but had no significant effect on leaf peroxisomal function. Analysis of the subcellular localization of GFP-PEX7 in transgenic Arabidopsis showed that GFP-PEX7 localizes primarily to the peroxisome. Transient expression of a C- or N-terminal fusion protein of PEX7 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (PEX7-YFP and YFP-PEX7, respectively) in leek epidermal cells, using the particle bombardment technique, confirmed that fluorescent protein-tagged PEX7 localizes to peroxisomes in Arabidopsis. Immunoblot analysis revealed that GFP-PEX7 accumulates primarily in peroxisomal membrane fractions, whereas endogenous PEX7 was distributed evenly in cytosolic and peroxisomal membrane fractions, which indicated that both endogenous PEX7 and GFP-PEX7 are properly targeted to peroxisomal membranes. The results of bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) and yeast two-hybrid analyses showed that PEX7 binds directly to PTS2-containing proteins and PEX12 in the peroxisomal membrane. We used red fluorescent protein (tdTomato) fusion protein of PEX7 (tdTomato-PEX7) in several Arabidopsis pex mutants to identify proteins required for the targeting of PEX7 to peroxisomes in planta. The results demonstrated that pex14, pex13 and pex12 mutations disrupt the proper targeting of PEX7 to peroxisomes. Overall, our results suggest that the targeting of PEX7 to peroxisomes requires four proteins: a PTS2-containing protein, PEX14, PEX13 and PEX12.
!~RES~! To analyze the molecular mechanism of PEX7 function, we constructed a chimeric gene encoding GFP fused to Arabidopsis PEX7 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (Figure S1). The gene was inserted into a Ti vector, and then introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Transgenic Arabidopsis progeny expressing GFP-PEX7 were selected and designated as AtGFP-PEX7. We first compared the phenotypes of AtGFP-PEX7 and wild-type Arabidopsis grown under normal atmospheric conditions. Previously, it was shown that plants with a defect in leaf peroxisomal function exhibit a dwarf phenotype with pale-green leaves (Hayashi et al., 2000, 2005; CITATION). As shown in Figure 1(a), the growth of AtGFP-PEX7 was similar to that of wild-type plants, which indicated that the overexpression of GFP-PEX7 does not affect leaf peroxisomal function. It has been reported that plants lacking peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation become resistant to 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB), and require sucrose during post-germinative growth (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the status of fatty acid β-oxidation in transgenic plants, we examined the effect of 2,4-DB and sucrose on the growth of AtGFP-PEX7. When AtGFP-PEX7 seedlings were grown on medium containing 0.3 μg ml−1 2,4-DB, they developed long roots, which indicated that AtGFP-PEX7 was resistant to 2,4-DB (Figure 1b, upper panel). In addition, AtGFP-PEX7 seedlings could not germinate in the absence of sucrose (Figure 1b, middle panel). It required sucrose for germination. These aspects of the AtGFP-PEX7 phenotype were identical to the ped1 mutant, which has a defect in the peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation enzyme 3-ketoacyl CoA thiolase (CITATION). These results indicated that the overexpression of GFP-PEX7 in plants results in a defect in glyoxysomal fatty acid β-oxidation. [[FIGURE]] To study the relationship between the glyoxysomal defect in AtGFP-PEX7 and the subcellular localization of GFP-PEX7, we analyzed AtGFP-PEX7 plants by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. As shown in Figure 2(a), all of the cells examined showed punctate green fluorescence, which indicated that the majority of GFP-PEX7 localizes to peroxisomes in these cells. To confirm the peroxisomal localization of GFP-PEX7, we constructed two chimeric cDNAs encoding N- and C-terminal fusion proteins of Arabidopsis PEX7 and YFP (YFP-PEX7 and PEX7-YFP, respectively; Figure S1). The chimeric cDNAs were placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and were then introduced into Allium ampelopresum (Japanese leek) epidermal cells using the particle bombardment technique. A peroxisomal marker protein composed of the red fluorescent protein tdTomato (CITATION) and 10 C-terminal amino acid residues from hydroxypyruvate reductase (CITATION) (tdTomato-PTS1) was also introduced into cells as a marker for transformation. Cells were incubated for 18 h after bombardment, and then the subcellular localization of the transiently expressed fluorescent fusion proteins was examined. Both YFP-PEX7 and PEX7-YFP were detected in the peroxisome (Figure 2), and co-localized with tdTomato-PTS1 (Figure 2d,g). The placement of YFP at either the N- or C-terminus of PEX7 did not affect the transport of PEX7 to peroxisomes. These results were consistent with the subcellular localization of GFP-PEX7 in transgenic Arabidopsis (Figure 2a), and provided additional evidence that fluorescent fusion proteins of PEX7 are properly targeted to peroxisomes. [[FIGURE]] We next analyzed whether fluorescent protein-tagged PEX7 localized to the peroxisomal membrane or peroxisomal matrix (Figure 3). Total tissue homogenate was prepared from 5-day-old etiolated cotyledons of AtGFP-PEX7 and wild-type Arabidopsis. The crude homogenate was then treated separately with low-salt buffer (Figure 3, L; 0.05 m NaCl), high-salt buffer (Figure 3, H; 0.5 m NaCl) or alkaline solution (Figure 3, A; 0.1 m Na2CO3), and was then fractionated into supernatant (S) and pellet (P) after centrifugation. The protein fractions from the AtGFP-PEX7 and the wild-type plants were analyzed by immunoblot using anti-GFP, anti-PEX7 and anti-PEX5 antibodies. As shown in Figure 3(a), anti-GFP antibody (a-GFP) revealed that a 69-kDa protein corresponding to GFP-PEX7 was detected primarily in the pellet, even after treatment with alkaline solution (Figure 3a, arrowhead in a-GFP). A small quantity of protein was also detected in the supernatant. These results indicated that GFP-PEX7 accumulates in the peroxisomal membrane. In contrast, a 43-kDa protein corresponding to endogenous PEX7 from AtGFP-PEX7 was present in approximately equal quantities in the supernatant and pellet, even after treatment with alkaline solution (Figure 3a, arrowhead in a-PEX7), which suggested that endogenous PEX7 is present in two subcellular compartments: the cytosol and the peroxisomal membrane. These results were consistent with previous findings that PEX7 is targeted to peroxisomes, and is then recycled back to the cytosol in mammals and yeast (CITATION; CITATION). As a control, 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase and peroxisomal ascorbate peroxidase were analyzed as markers for the peroxisomal matrix and the peroxisomal membrane, respectively (Figure 3a, a-thiolase and a-APX). These results suggested that GFP-PEX7 is properly targeted to peroxisomes, similar to endogenous PEX7, but that the addition of GFP inhibits the last step of the peroxisomal protein import pathway: the recycling of PEX7 from the peroxisomal membrane to the cytosol. In 5-day-old etiolated cotyledons of wild-type plants, 43-kDa PEX7 and 99-kDa PEX5 were detected in both supernatant and pellet fractions (Figure 3b, arrowheads in a-PEX7 and a-PEX5), whereas in AtGFP-PEX7, PEX5 was mostly detected in the pellet fractions, with only a small quantity detected in the supernatant fractions (Figure 3a, arrowhead in a-PEX5), indicating that PEX5 is trapped on the membrane together with GFP-PEX7 in AtGFP-PEX7. [[FIGURE]] Previously, the binding of Arabidopsis PEX7 to PTS2 was demonstrated using the yeast two-hybrid system (CITATION). To determine the subcellular localization of protein complexes composed of PEX7 and PTS2-containing proteins in plant cells, we carried out a series of BiFC assays using N- and C-terminal fragments of YFP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). An interaction between two proteins that are fused to two different YFP fragments results in the reconstitution of a functional YFP molecule with yellow fluorescence. We constructed two chimeric genes encoding the N-terminal half of YFP fused to PEX7, and the N-terminal 48 amino acid residues of citrate synthase, which contains a PTS2 (CITATION), fused to the C-terminal half of YFP. These chimeras were designated as nYFP-PEX7 and PTS2-cYFP, respectively (Figure S1). We transiently expressed nYFP-PEX7 and PTS2-cYFP in leek epidermal cells together with tdTomato-PTS1 using the particle bombardment technique (Figure 4a–c). As shown in Figure 4(a), YFP fluorescence (as indicated by the green pseudocolor) was observed exclusively in peroxisomes, and the signal co-localized perfectly with the red fluorescence of tdTomato-PTS1 (Figure 4b,c). These results demonstrated that fluorescent protein-tagged PEX7 is targeted to the peroxisome together with a PTS2-containing protein. [[FIGURE]] To confirm these results, we substituted a conserved arginine (arginine 16) of the PTS2 sequence of PTS2-cYFP with Glycine (R16G) to create PTS2*-cYFP. This mutation has been shown to disrupt the peroxisomal targeting of PTS2 (CITATION). When PTS2*-cYFP was co-expressed with nYFP-PEX7 together with tdTomato (a cytosolic marker for transformation; Figure 4e) or tdTomato-PTS1 (a peroxisomal marker for transformation; Figure 4h), weak YFP-positive signals were detected in the cytosol (Figure 4d,g). These results suggested that the peroxisomal targeting of PEX7 requires an intact PTS2 sequence in the cargo protein. We next examined whether there was a direct interaction between PTS1- and PTS2-containing proteins during import using BiFC (Figure 4j). We constructed a gene chimera encoding nYFP and PTS1 (nYFP-PTS1). When nYFP-PTS1 and PTS2-cYFP were co-expressed together with tdTomato-PTS1, YFP fluorescence was detected in the peroxisome (Figure 4j), and co-localized with tdTomato-PTS1 (Figure 4k,l). These results were in agreement with the model in which receptor–cargo complexes composed of PEX5, PEX7, a PTS1-containing protein and a PTS2-containing protein are targeted to peroxisomes during import. We carefully examined control cells that expressed nYFP-PEX7 and cYFP (Figure 4m), nYFP and PTS2-cYFP (Figure 4p), nYFP-PTS1 and cYFP, and PTS2*-cYFP and nYFP (data not shown), and none of the cells exhibited significant levels of YFP fluorescence, which indicated that the reconstitution of YFP fluorescence was indeed the result of complex formation between the two fusion proteins. Furthermore, to show that the expression of protein is occurring without the reconstitution of YFP fluorescence, we transiently expressed nYFP fused to mRFP1 (red fluorescent protein; nYFP-mRFP1) or cYFP fused to mRFP1 (cYFP-mRFP1) in leek epidermal cells. As shown in Figure S2(a,b), YFP fluorescence was then detected in cells with a significant red fluorescent signal. To determine whether there were additional factors required for PEX7 targeting to the peroxisomal membrane, we analyzed the subcellular localization of tdTomato-PEX7 in root cells of several Arabidopsis pex mutants. It has been reported that mutants with nucleotide substitutions in PEX14 and PEX13 are defective in peroxisomal function. These mutants are designated ped2 and apm2 (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, CITATION recently reported reduced PEX12 function in the RNAi knock-down mutant pex12i. In this mutant, GFP-PTS1 fails to localize properly, and accumulates in the cytosol (CITATION). We introduced tdTomato-PEX7 into the root cells of wild-type Arabidopsis, and into pex14, pex13 and pex12i mutants, by particle bombardment (Figure 5). tdTomato-PEX7 localized to the peroxisomes in wild-type plants (Figure 5, WT), consistent with the subcellular localization of GFP-PEX7 and YFP-PEX7 (Figure 2). In contrast, tdTomato-PEX7 localized to the cytosol in pex14, pex13 and pex12i mutants (Figure 5). These results indicated that the loss of PEX14, PEX13 or PEX12 prevents the targeting of PEX7 to peroxisomes. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether PEX7 directly interacted with PEX12 in vivo, we carried out a BiFC assay using nYFP-PEX7, a fusion protein of PEX12 and the C-terminal half of YFP (cYFP-PEX12). Transient expression of nYFP-PEX7 and cYFP-PEX12 in leek epidermal cells resulted in punctate YFP fluorescence signals in the peroxisome (Figure 6a). The YFP-specific spherical structures co-localized with tdTomato-PTS1 (Figure 6b,c), which suggested that the interaction of PEX7 and PEX12 occurred at the peroxisome. The PEX7-PEX12 complex was most likely localized to the peroxisomal membrane, as PEX12 is a peroxisomal membrane protein (CITATION). These results provide experimental evidence of a novel, direct protein–protein interaction between PEX7 and PEX12 in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction of PEX7 with PEX12 and PTS2, as shown by BiFC, the yeast two-hybrid system was employed. PEX12 contains two membrane-spanning domains, so we thought that it was difficult to use the full-length PEX12 for the two-hybrid assay, as was the case with PEX13 (CITATION). Accordingly, the truncated constructs with the N-terminal 240 amino acids (PEX12N) or the C-terminal 102 amino acids (PEX12C) were generated. PEX7 interacted with PEX12C, but did not interact with PEX12N (Figure 7a). With regard to the interaction of PEX7 with PTS2, PEX7 was able to interact with both the wild-type and mutated versions of PTS2 (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]] These data confirmed that PEX7 was capable of binding with PEX12 and PTS2, and the interaction was detected by BiFC (Figures 4 and 6). In addition, BiFC is a useful technique for detecting the interaction between peroxisomal proteins.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Columbia and Landsberg erecta, which were used as wild-type plants, and the mutants ped2, apm2 and pex12i, expressing GFP-PTS1, were grown as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). All seeds were surface sterilized in 2% NaClO, 0.02% Triton X-100, and were grown on germination media [2.3 mg ml−1 MS salts (Wako, http://www.wako-chem.co.jp/english), 1% sucrose, 100 μg ml−1 myo-inositol, 1 μg ml−1 thiamine-HCl, 0.5 μg ml−1 pyridoxine, 0.5 μg ml−1 nicotinic acid, 0.5 mg ml−1 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid (MES)-KOH (pH 5.7), 0.8% agar (INA, http://www.funakoshi.co.jp/export/product/NF060010.html)]. Where indicated, 0.3 μg ml−1 of 2,4-DB was added, or sucrose was removed from the growth medium. Germination was induced by incubation in the dark for 48 h at 4°C, followed by white light at 22°C. Seedlings that were grown for 7 days on growth medium were transferred to a 1:1 mixture of perlite and vermiculite. Plants were grown under constant illumination at 22°C. To generate the GFP-PEX7 chimera, a DNA fragment encoding the Met1–Ser317 region of PEX7 was amplified by PCR. The amplified fragment was inserted into pDONR221 (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) and then transferred into the Ti vector pK7WGF2 (VIB, Ghent University), using BP and LR clonases, according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). The resultant vector was introduced into A. tumefaciens strain C58C1RifR by electroporation, and the transformed bacteria were vacuum-infiltrated into A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on germination media plates containing 50 μg ml−1 of kanamycin. For the construction of YFP-PEX7, PEX7-YFP, nYFP-PTS1, PTS2-cYFP, nYFP-PEX7, cYFP-PEX12 and tdTomato-PEX7 fusion genes, cDNAs for the pair of interacting proteins [full-length PEX7 (CITATION) and PEX12 (Met1–Thr372) (CITATION)], the PTS1-containing C-terminal 10 amino acids of Arabidopsis hydroxypyruvate reductase (CITATION), and the PTS2-containing N-terminal 48 amino acids of pumpkin citrate synthase (CITATION) were amplified by PCR using specific sets of primers. All of the constructs were amplified with attB1 and attB2 sites at their 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively. The amplified fragments were cloned into the entry vector pDONR221 (Invitrogen) using BP clonases, according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Gateway technology; Invitrogen). The PEX7 coding region in pDONR221 was then transferred to the Gateway expression vectors pUGW41 and pUGW42 (kindly provided by Dr T. Nakagawa, Shimane University) by LR recombination (Gateway technology; Invitrogen) to generate plasmids that encoded YFP-PEX7 and PEX7-YFP, respectively (CITATION). The PEX7, PEX12, PTS1 and PTS2 coding regions in pDONR221 and mRFP1 in pCR8/mRFP1 were transferred to the attR1-attR2 sites of nYFP/pUGW0, cYFP/pUGW0 and cYFP/pUGW2, respectively, using the same procedure. PTS2 with a single base-pair substitution (CGC → GGC, arginine 16 → glycine) was generated by site-directed mutagenesis using a Quick-change site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com). Wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) and transgenic GFP-PEX7 seeds (3000; approximately 60 mg) were grown on growth medium for 5 days in darkness at 22°C. The 5-day-old etiolated cotyledons of AtGFP-PEX7 and wild-type Arabidopsis were homogenized with 250 μl of homogenization buffer [150 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.2), 1 mm EDTA and protease inhibitor cocktail tablet (Boerhinger, http://www.boehringer-ingelheim.com)]. Total homogenate was then treated with low-salt buffer, high-salt buffer or alkaline solution consisting of 150 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.2), with 50 mm NaCl, 150 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.2) with 500 mm NaCl, or 0.1 m Na2CO3, respectively. Samples were incubated for 1 h at 4°C, and were then subjected to centrifugation at 100 000 g for 30 min, and the supernatant and pellet fractions were collected. The pellet was resuspended in 1× SDS sample buffer, incubated for 1 h at 4°C and then subjected to centrifugation at 100 000 g for 30 min. The protein concentration of the extracts was estimated using the Bio-Rad protein assay (Bio-Rad Laboratories, http://www.bio-rad.com) and bovine gamma albumin as a standard. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and then transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher and Schuell Bioscience GmbH, now part of Whatman, http://www.whatman.com) using a semidry electroblotting system. The membrane was probed with antibodies raised against AtPEX7 (diluted 1:1000; CITATION), GFP (diluted 1:5000; CITATION), AtPEX5 (diluted 1:5000; CITATION), 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase (diluted 1:10 000; CITATION) and peroxisomal ascorbate peroxidase (pAPX) (diluted 1:1000), as indicated, followed by horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibody. Immunoreactive proteins were detected using an ECL detection kit (GE Healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com). Transient expression assays to assess the subcellular localization of YFP fusion proteins in Japanese leek epidermal cells were carried out using the particle bombardment technique. Plasmids encoding nYFP and cYFP fusion proteins were mixed at a 1:1 (w/w) ratio, and were adsorbed onto gold particles of 1.0 μm in diameter, according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Bio-Rad). Inner epidermal peels of leek (1-cm square), with the inner side oriented upwards, were placed on a 0.8% (w/v) agar plate containing 2.3 mg ml−1 MS salts and 0.5 mg ml−1 MES-KOH (pH 5.7). For each bombardment, 9 μl of DNA-coated gold particles were placed on the macrocarrier. Leek epidermal cells were bombarded using the PDS-1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad) at 7590 kPa under a vacuum of 84.7 kPa. Following bombardment, the cells were incubated in the same petri dish for 18 h at 22°C in the dark before observation. As a marker of transformation, we also analyzed the expression of tdTomato (a gift from Dr R.Y. Tsien, University of California) using the expression vector ptdGW and tdTomto-PTS1. tdTomato-PEX7 was introduced into root cells of wild-type Arabidopsis and the following mutants: ped2 (defective in PEX14; CITATION), apm2 (defective in PEX13; CITATION) and pex12i (defective in PEX12; CITATION) under the same conditions described above. Leek epidermal cells were examined under an LSM510 confocal laser-scanning microscope equipped with Argon and He–Ne lasers, and with a set of filters capable of distinguishing between yellow (YFP) and red (RFP) fluorescence. The 488-nm argon ion laser was used to excite GFP, whereas the 543-nm He line was used to excite RFP. Fluorescence signals from YFP and RFP were excited by 514- and 543-nm light wavelengths, respectively, and emissions were observed with a 565–615-nm band-pass filter and a LP560 long-pass filter, respectively (Carl Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). Images were collected in multi-channel mode. The two-hybrid analysis was carried out according to a method described previously (CITATION). The two vectors, pGBD-C1 and pGAD-C1, which contain the Gal4p DNA-binding domain or -activation domain, respectively, were modified to destination vectors to contain the Gateway cassette in the ClaI and BglII sites using the Gateway Vector Conversion System (Invitrogen). They were designated as pGBD-C1GW3 and pGAC-C1GW3, respectively. To make the two truncated constructs of PEX12 with the N-terminal 240 amino acids (PEX12N) or the C-terminal 102 amino acids (PEX12C), DNA fragments conjugated at the attB1 and attB2 sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, were amplified by PCR and purified. The PCR-amplified DNA fragments were transferred to the donor vector, pDONR221, by a BP recombination reaction according to the Gateway technology (Invitrogen). After sequencing to confirm that no mutation was introduced, the insert was transferred to pGAD-C1GW3 or pGBD-C1GW3 by an LR recombination reaction, according to the Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The vectors were designated as pGAPEX12N, pGBPEX12N, pGAPEX12C and pGBPEX12C. Two entry vectors containing wild-type or mutated PTS2 fragments, which were described above, were used to make four kinds of two-hybrid vectors, pGAPTS2wt, pGBPTS2wt, pGAPTS2m and pGBPTS2m. These two-hybrid vectors were co-transformed into tester strain PJ69-4A (CITATION) according to an established protocol (CITATION). Yeast transformants were selected and grown on complete synthesized media containing 2% glucose, 0.67% yeast nitrogen base without amino acid (DIFCO) and amino acids as needed. Two-hybrid interactions were assayed using His3 and LacZ reporters.
