!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) is a key phytohormone involved in adaption to environmental stress and regulation of plant development. Clade A protein phosphatases type 2C (PP2Cs), such as HAB1, are key negative regulators of ABA signaling in Arabidopsis. To obtain further insight into regulation of HAB1 function by ABA, we have screened for HAB1-interacting partners using a yeast two-hybrid approach. Three proteins were identified, PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8, which belong to a 14-member subfamily of the Bet v1-like superfamily. HAB1–PYL5 interaction was confirmed using BiFC and co-immunoprecipitation assays. PYL5 over-expression led to a globally enhanced response to ABA, in contrast to the opposite phenotype reported for HAB1-over-expressing plants. F2 plants that over-expressed both HAB1 and PYL5 showed an enhanced response to ABA, indicating that PYL5 antagonizes HAB1 function. PYL5 and other members of its protein family inhibited HAB1, ABI1 and ABI2 phosphatase activity in an ABA-dependent manner. Isothermal titration calorimetry revealed saturable binding of (+)ABA to PYL5, with Kd values of 1.1 μm or 38 nm in the absence or presence of the PP2C catalytic core of HAB1, respectively. Our work indicates that PYL5 is a cytosolic and nuclear ABA receptor that activates ABA signaling through direct inhibition of clade A PP2Cs. Moreover, we show that enhanced resistance to drought can be obtained through PYL5-mediated inhibition of clade A PP2Cs.
!~RES~! We have previously reported (CITATION) that fusion of full-length HAB1 to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain resulted in the activation of the Y2H gene reporters. Deletion of the HAB1 N-terminal domain was required to eliminate such activation, and therefore only the PP2C catalytic core of HAB1 (ΔNHAB1 amino acids 179–511) could be used as bait in the Y2H screen (CITATION). Despite this limitation, we were able to identify three closely related members of an Arabidopsis gene family that showed interaction with ΔNHAB1, namely At5g05440 (PYL5), At5g53160 (PYL8) and At2g40330 (PYL6) (Figure 1a). Deletions at the N-terminus (lacking amino acids 1–99) or C-terminus (lacking amino acids 163–203) that are predicted to affect protein structure of PYL5 (Figure S1) abolished its interaction with ΔNHAB1 (Figure 1b). On the other hand, introduction of a Gly246Asp (G246D) mutation, which severely reduces HAB1 PP2C activity, also led to loss of the interaction with PYL5, PYL8 and PYL6 (Figure 1c). [[FIGURE]] BLAST searches in Arabidopsis using as a query the amino acid sequence encoded by these genes revealed a gene family with 14 members (Figure S1), named the PYR/PYL family (CITATION). All the members encode small proteins, ranging between 159 and 221 amino acid residues, and protein domain analysis using the InterPro database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro) revealed the presence of the Bet v 1 family signature (Figure S1). Secondary structure analysis (http://bioinf.cs.ucl.ac.uk/psipred/; CITATION) revealed a β–α–β6–α arrangement, which is similar to the prototypic Bet v 1 structure (Figure S1) (CITATION). The PYR/PYL family represents a subfamily of the Bet v 1-like superfamily (CITATION), and its members are distantly related in sequence to Bet v 1 (Figure S1). As other members, e.g. PYR1 and PYL4, have also been identified in Y2H assays as HAB1-interacting partners, and this interaction was ABA-dependent (CITATION), we assayed the effect of exogenous ABA in our Y2H screen. No significant effect of ABA was found in our assay (Figure 1a). To bypass the limitation of using only the PP2C catalytic core of HAB1 in the Y2H assay, we generated a construct where full-length HAB1 was fused to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD). The corresponding fusion protein did not lead to self-activation of Y2H gene reporters (Figure 1d), and therefore we could use it to test the interaction with PYR/PYL genes fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GBD). The interaction of HAB1 and PYL5, PYL8 or PYL6 was not dependent on the addition of exogenous ABA, whereas the interaction with PYR1 and PYL4 did not occur in the absence of exogenous ABA (Figure 1d). Finally, introduction of a G246D mutation into the full-length HAB1 construct abolished the interaction with PYR/PYL constructs (Figure 1d). Interestingly, data from the Bio-Array Resource for Arabidopsis Functional Genomics (BAR) (http://bar.utoronto.ca) show that expression of PYL5, PYL8 and PYL6, as well as additional members of the family, PYL4, PYR1 and PYL1, was strongly down-regulated in whole-seedling tissue by ABA treatment (Figure 2a). These results are particularly intriguing, taking into account that HAB1 expression, as well as that of other clade A PP2C genes, is strongly up-regulated by ABA treatment (Figure 2a) (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, gene expression data reveal an opposite effect of ABA on the expression of clade A PP2Cs and at least six members of the PYR/PYL family. Microarray data analysis using the Arabidopsis eFP browser (CITATION; http://bar.utoronto.ca/) revealed differential expression among PYL5, PYL8 and PYL6 (Figure 2b). PYL5 showed higher expression than PYL8 and PYL6 in seeds, seedlings, leaves and guard cells (Figure 2b). Additionally, microarray data analysis at the Genevestigator database (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) (CITATION) revealed a general expression pattern for PYL5 in callus, cell suspension, seeds, seedlings, inflorescences, rosette leaves and roots (Figure 2c). This pattern was also observed for PYL8; however, its expression in seed and guard cells was lower than that of PYL5 (Figure 2b). Given these results, further biological analysis of the HAB1-interacting partners was performed on PYL5. [[FIGURE]] In vivo targeting experiments were performed in tobacco to determine the subcellular localization of PYL5. To this end, a GFP–PYL5 fusion was generated and delivered into leaf cells of tobacco by Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration. Figure 3(a) shows that the GFP–PYL5 fusion localizes to both nucleus and cytosol, similar to the subcellular localization described for HAB1 (CITATION). In contrast, SWI3B, another HAB1-interacting partner, was only found in the nucleus (CITATION). Additionally, the subcellular localization of PYL5 was examined by standard biochemical techniques in protein extracts from transiently transformed tobacco cells (Figure 3b) or in Arabidopsis cells that stably express a hemagglutinin (HA) epitope-tagged version of PYL5 (Figure 3c). In agreement with microscopy studies, GFP–PYL5 was detected in both the cytosolic and nuclear fractions by immunoblot analysis (Figure 3b). HA–PYL5 protein was also detected in both the cytosolic and nuclear fractions of Arabidopsis transgenic cells (Figure 3c). [[FIGURE]] Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays were used to test the interaction between HAB1 and PYL5 in plant cells. To this end, HAB1 was translationally fused to the N-terminal 155 amino acid portion of YFP (YFPN) in the pSPYNE vector, which generated an HAB1–myc epitope–YFPN fusion protein (Figure 3e). Similarly, PYL5 was translationally fused to the C-terminal 84 amino acid portion of YFP (YFPC) in the pYFPC43 vector (a derivative of pMDC43, CITATION), generating a YFPC–PYL5 fusion protein (Figure 3e). The corresponding constructs were co-delivered into leaf cells of tobacco by Agrobacterium infiltration, and, as a result, fluorescence was observed in the nucleus and cytosol of tobacco cells (Figure 3d). Suitable controls did not show fluorescent signal. Moreover, introduction of the G246D mutation into the sequence of HAB1 abolished the interaction with PYL5 in the BiFC assay (Figure 3d). We confirmed the interaction of HAB1 and PYL5 by co-immunoprecipitation experiments in tobacco protein extracts prepared from the BiFC assay described above. We found that HAB1 and PYL5 co-immunoprecipitated, as YFPC–PYL5 was detected in the immunocomplex precipitated with an antibody to the myc epitope, which pulls down the HAB1–myc–YFPN fusion protein (Figure 3e). In contrast, the co-immunoprecipitation assay did not show interaction between G246D hab1 and PYL5 (Figure 3e). Taking into account that homologous genes of the same family usually display functional redundancy to varying degrees, we used a gain-of-function approach to provide genetic evidence of the role of PYL5 in ABA signaling. We generated PYL5-over-expressing (OE) lines, and selected three homozygous T3 lines for further studies (Figure 4). Real-time quantitative PCR analysis showed that PYL5 expression in these lines was between 15- and 20-fold higher than in wild-type (Figure S2), and HA-tagged PYL5 protein was detected at similar levels in these lines (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] PYL5-OE lines showed higher sensitivity to ABA-mediated inhibition of seed germination than wild-type, as also found in the loss-of-function hab1-1 mutant (Figure 4b). Moreover, a significant reduction of germination (approximately 20%) was consistently found in these lines (Figure 4b). In contrast to the phenotype of hab1-1, 35S:HAB1-dHA lines (HAB1-OE, containing a double HA epitope) showed reduced sensitivity to ABA-mediated inhibition of seed germination (Figure 4b) (CITATION). Transgenic lines that showed simultaneous over-expression of PYL5 and HAB1 (HAB1-OE PYL5-OE) were generated by transferring pollen from 35S:HAB1-dHA lines (HygR; CITATION) to the stigmas of emasculated flowers from 35S:HA-PYL5 T3 lines (phosphinothricinR) (Figure 4a). Interestingly, transgenic plants over-expressing both HAB1 and PYL5 showed a phenotype similar to that of PYL5-OE lines, which suggests that PYL5 antagonizes HAB1 function in the plant (Figure 4b). To determine growth sensitivity to ABA, we used the double hab1-1 abi1-2 mutant as a reference for the enhanced response to ABA, as it shows a stronger phenotype than hab1-1 (CITATION). Root-growth assays revealed that PYL5-OE lines were as hypersensitive to ABA-mediated inhibition of growth as the double hab1-1 abi1-2 mutant (Figure 4c,d). Although HAB1-OE lines were insensitive to ABA-mediated inhibition of root growth, transgenic plants over-expressing both HAB1 and PYL5 showed enhanced root sensitivity to ABA, similar to the phenotype found in the PYL5-OE lines (Figure 4c,d). Gene expression in response to ABA was enhanced in PYL5-OE lines compared to wild-type, as real-time quantitative PCR analysis showed enhanced up-regulation of the ABA-inducible genes RAB18 and RD29B (Figure 5a). Finally, water-loss assays under drought-stress conditions indicated reduced water loss (Figure 5b) and enhanced drought resistance (Figure 5c) in PYL5-OE lines compared to wild-type. [[FIGURE]] The phenotypes observed for PYL5-OE lines are similar to those reported in loss-of-function pp2c alleles. Moreover, simultaneous over-expression of PYL5 and HAB1 abolished the ABA-insensitive phenotype of HAB1-OE lines, which indicates that PYL5 antagonizes HAB1 function in the plant (Figure 4b–d). As PYR/PYL proteins interact with HAB1, we hypothesized that they might have a regulatory effect on PP2C activity. We found an ABA-dependent inhibitory effect of PYR/PYL proteins on HAB1 activity (Figure 6a), whereas PYR/PYL proteins do not inhibit HAB1 activity in the absence of ABA (Figure S3). Moreover, the ABA inhibitory concentration required to achieve 50% inhibition (ABA-IC50) of HAB1 activity was dependent on the PYR/PYL protein assayed (Figure 6a). Thus, the ABA-IC50 values were 35, 135, 188 and 390 nm in the presence of PYL5, PYL8, PYL4 or PYR1, respectively. Interestingly, other hydrophobic hormones, such as brassinosteroids or giberellins, did not promote inhibition of HAB1 activity by PYL5 or PYR1 proteins (Figure S3). Therefore, PYR/PYL proteins act as potent negative regulators of HAB1 activity in an ABA-dependent manner. [[FIGURE]] To ascertain whether the effect of PYR/PYL proteins was or was not specific for HAB1, we have assayed their effect on ABI1 and ABI2 activity. The ABA-IC50 value for ABI2 was 115, 118, 110 and 360 nm in the presence of PYL5, PYL8, PYL4 or PYR1, respectively (Figure 6b). In the case of ABI1, these values were 123, 75, 272 and 330 nm, respectively (Figure 6c). In summary, PYR/PYL proteins have an ABA-dependent inhibitory effect on key representatives of clade A PP2Cs. The ABA-IC50 for HAB1 in the presence of PYL5 was 3-, 5- and 11-fold lower than values obtained with PYL8, PYL4 and PYR1, respectively (Figure 6a). In the case of ABI1, the ABA-IC50 in the presence of PYL8 was 1.6-, 3- and 4-fold lower than in the presence of PYL5, PYL4 and PYR1, respectively (Figure 6c). Finally, no significant effect was found for ABA alone, i.e. without PYR/PYL protein, on either HAB1, ABI1 or ABI2 activity (Figure 6a–c). We also tested whether PYL5 inhibited other PP2Cs in an ABA-dependent manner (Figure S4). Interestingly, a closely related PP2C from clade A, PP2CA (At3g11410), as well as a distantly related PP2C (At4g38520) from clade D, were not inhibited by PYL5, which indicates a selective effect of PYL5 on the HAB1/ABI1/ABI2 PP2Cs. Finally, we tested whether (+)ABA and (−)ABA enantiomers were equally effective at promoting PYL5-mediated inhibition of HAB1 activity (Figure S5). The ABA-IC50 for HAB1 in the presence of PYL5 was 23 nm for (+)ABA and 186 nm for (−)ABA, which indicates that (+)ABA is eight times more effective than (−)ABA at promoting inhibition of HAB1 mediated by PYL5. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) was used to determine whether ABA binds directly to 6× His-tagged PYL5 (His6–PYL5). In these experiments, known volumes of a solution containing (+)ABA, the natural enantiomer, were injected into a cell containing His6–PYL5 and the heat exchanged was measured. Figure 7(a) shows the ITC thermogram for one representative experiment. Addition of the ligand releases a large amount of heat, and a typical saturation curve was obtained upon sequential addition of ligand, demonstrating a specific and saturable binding reaction. Analysis of this thermogram (Figure 7b) indicated a dissociation constant (Kd) of 1.1 μm, with an enthalpy value (ΔH) of −7.9 kcal mol−1 and an entropy value (ΔS) of 1.3 cal mol−1 K−1. The negative value and magnitude of ΔH indicate the net creation of non-covalent bonds during the binding process. The stoichiometry (N) was approximately 0.7, which suggests binding of one ABA molecule per protein molecule. Minor experimental errors inherent to the methods for determining ligand and active protein concentration (minor proteolysis of the PYL5 protein was observed at the end of ITC experiments performed at 25°C over 4 h) might explain the deviation from an ideal 1:1 stoichiometry. Finally, the binding was partially sterospecific, as similar ITC experiments (Figure 7c,d) performed with the non-natural (−)ABA enantiomer revealed a Kd of 19 μm, which is one order of magnitude higher than for the natural enantiomer. These data indicate that PYL5 has at least 10-fold higher affinity for the natural isomer, but it is able to bind (−)ABA, which is expected given the lack of in vivo selection on the non-natural enantiomer action. These data are also consistent with the inhibitory effect of (−)ABA on HAB1 activity mediated by PYL5 (Figure S5). [[FIGURE]] CITATION have shown that addition of ABI2 to a similar ITC experiment in which they measured binding of (+)ABA to RCAR1/PYL9 led to an apparent Kd of 64 nm ABA, which is approximately 10-fold lower than in the absence of ABI2. We added the PP2C catalytic core of HAB1 (ΔNHAB1) to our ITC assay of (+)ABA binding to PYL5, and analogous results were obtained, with an apparent Kd of 38 nm ABA, which is approximately 25-fold lower than the value obtained in the absence of the PP2C (Figure 7e,f). These results suggest that the ternary complex ABA–receptor–PP2C behaves as a high-affinity system for ABA in the nanomolar range. Finally, we did not observe binding of (+)ABA to ΔNHAB1 using the ITC assay (Figure 7g,h). ΔNHAB1 was used for ITC experiments because we could not obtain the high amount of soluble protein required using the full-length construct. ΔNHAB1 is able to interact with PYL5 (Figure 1), and its phosphatase activity is inhibited by PYL5 in an ABA-dependent manner (Figure S4).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown as decribed by CITATION. The coding sequence of PYL5 cDNA was PCR-amplified using the primers FCDS5g05440 and RCDS5g05440 (the sequences of all primers used in this work are at Appendix S1). The PCR product was cloned into the pCR8/GW/TOPO entry vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) and recombined by LR reaction into the pEarleyGate 201 destination vector (CITATION). The pEarley201-35S:HA-PYL5 construct was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 (CITATION) by electroporation, and used to transform the wild-type. Seeds from transformed plants were harvested and plated on phosphinothricin (10 μg ml−1) selection medium to identify T1 plants. T3 progeny that were homozygous for the selection marker were used for further studies. Transgenic lines that show simultaneous over-expression of PYL5 and HAB1 were generated by transferring pollen from 35S:HAB1-dHA lines (HygR; CITATION) to the stigmas of emasculated flowers from 35S:HA-PYL5 T3 lines. F2 seedlings that showed resistance both to hygromicin (10 μg ml−1) and phosphinothricin (10 μg ml−1) were selected, and co-expression of 35S:HAB1-dHA and 35S:HA-PYL5 was verified by immunoblot analysis using peroxidase-conjugated anti-HA antibody (Roche, http://www.roche.com). The yeast two-hybrid screening method used here has recently been described by CITATION (see also Appendix S1). Experiments were performed essentially as described by CITATION (see also Appendix S1). The protocol used was based on fractionation techniques described by CITATION and CITATION, and has been described recently by CITATION (see also Appendix S1). Protein extracts for immunodetection experiments were prepared from N. benthamiana leaves infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 (pGV2260) transformed with the constructs indicated above or with Arabidopsis 35S:HAB1-dHA and 35S:HA-PYL5 transgenic lines. Protocols were essentially similar to those reported by CITATION (see also Appendix S1). To measure ABA sensitivity at germination, approximately 200 seeds per experiment were plated on solid medium comprising MS basal salts, 1% sucrose and increasing concentrations of ABA. In order to score seed germination, the percentage of seeds that showed radicle emergence was determined after 4 days. To score ABA-mediated root growth inhibition, approximately 20 seedlings per experiment were grown on vertically oriented MS plates for 4 days. Afterwards, plants were transferred to new plates containing MS medium supplemented or not with 10 μm ABA. Seedlings were grown vertically for 10 days, and plates were scanned on a flatbed scanner to produce image files suitable for quantitative analysis using NIH ImageJ software version 1.37 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). Drought stress was imposed by withholding water for plants maintained under greenhouse conditions essentially as described by CITATION. To this end, plants (five individuals per experiment, three independent experiments) were grown under normal watering conditions for 5 weeks and then subjected to drought stress by completely terminating irrigation and minimizing soil evaporation by covering the pots with plastic film. Two samples of 10 leaves of each genotype were then removed, weighed, incubated in de-mineralized water for 3 h, and weighed again. The difference in weight was considered to be water loss. Plants were grown on MS plates supplemented with 1% sucrose. After 10 days, plantlets were transferred to 100 ml Erlenmeyer flasks containing 2 ml of liquid MS medium supplemented with 1% sucrose. Ten days later, plantlets were either mock- or 10 μm ABA-treated for 3 h. RNA extraction, cDNA synthesis and real-time quantitative PCR amplifications were performed as described by CITATION (see also Appendix S1). The generation of HAB1, ABI1 and ABI2 cDNAs has been described previously (CITATION; Rodriguez et al., 1998a,b). The coding sequence of HAB1 or ΔNHAB1 (lacking the N-terminal amino acid residues 1–178) was excised from pCR/GW/TOPO vector by NcoI/EcoRI digestion and cloned into pETM11 to encode N-terminally 6× His-tagged recombinant proteins. ABI1 and ABI2 ORFs were cloned into the pMalc2 vector to generate constructs encoding MBP–ABI1 and maltose binding protein (MBP)–ABI2. Purification details are described in Appendix S1. Phosphatase activity was measured using the Ser/Thr phosphatase assay system (Promega, http://www.promega.com/) using the RRA(phosphoT)VA peptide as the substrate. Briefly, phosphatase assays were performed in a 100 μl reaction volume containing 25 mm Tris/HCl pH 7.5, 10 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, 25 μm peptide substrate and the indicated amount of the PP2C. When indicated, PYR/PYL recombinant proteins and ABA were included in the PP2C activity assay. After incubation for 60 min at 30°C, the reaction was stopped by addition of 100 μl molybdate dye (CITATION), and the absorbance at 630 nm was recorded. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) experiments were performed using a VP-ITC calorimeter equipped with the control, data acquisition and analysis software ORIGIN 7 (Microcal Inc., http://www.microcal.com/). Details of the technique are given in Appendix S1.
