!~ABS~! The metabolic control of the interaction between Arabidopsis N-acetyl-l-glutamate kinase (NAGK) and the PII protein has been studied. Both gel exclusion and affinity chromatography analyses of recombinant, affinity-purified PII (trimeric complex) and NAGK (hexameric complex) showed that NAGK strongly interacted with PII only in the presence of Mg-ATP, and that this process was reversed by 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG). Furthermore, metabolites such as arginine, glutamate, citrate, and oxalacetate also exerted a negative effect on the PII-NAGK complex formation in the presence of Mg-ATP. Using chloroplast protein extracts and PII affinity chromatography, NAGK interacted with PII only in the presence of ATP-Mg2+, and this process was antagonized by 2-OG. These results reveal a complex metabolic control of the PII interaction with NAGK in the chloroplast stroma of higher plants.
!~RES~! In order to characterise the PII-NAGK interaction we first used PII and NAGK His-tagged-proteins, gel exclusion chromatography (Sephacryl S-200 HR) and SDS–PAGE. When loaded separately, each protein eluted as a single peak from the column (CITATION A) corresponding to the expected molecular weight of their native form (a 45kDa PII trimer, and a 198kDa, NAGK hexamer) (CITATIONB). To test the effect of Mg-ATP and 2-OG on PII-NAGK interactions the two proteins were filtrated together (respecting the proportions of two homotrimers of PII for a single hexamer of NAGK CITATION) in the presence/absence of different metabolite combinations. In the absence of added Mg2+/ATP/2-OG, two peaks corresponding to native NAGK and PII, respectively, were obtained (CITATIONC). However, in the presence of Mg-ATP the elution profile was modified and a single peak with a molecular mass close to 243kDa was detected (CITATIOND). This observation suggests that Mg-ATP is required to obtain a strong PII-NAGK interaction. Interestingly, complex formation was not promoted when proteins were loaded in equilibration buffer containing Mg-ATP and 2-OG since two elution peaks were found (CITATIONE). Such data indicate that in the presence of Mg-ATP, the PII-NAGK interaction is disrupted by 2-OG. In order to confirm the effect of Mg-ATP and 2-OG in controlling the PII-NAGK interaction, a rapid affinity chromatography/pull-down protocol was developed in which His6-tagged PII was chemically immobilized onto NHS-activated Sepharose and PII-NAGK interactions were determined in the presence of tested metabolites. NAGK was incubated with an aliquot of the PII-immobilized-gel in the presence of different metabolites and after centrifugation the resulting supernatant was analysed by SDS–PAGE to determine if the NAGK interacted with the PII. In this way, NAGK was found to interact with PII only when Mg-ATP was added to the incubation medium and this interaction was disrupted in the presence of 2-OG (CITATION). This data therefore conclusively confirms the inhibitory effect of 2-OG on the PII-NAGK complex formation in the presence of Mg-ATP. PII-NAGK interactions were not observed neither in the absence of Mg-ATP nor in the presence of Mg2+ alone (CITATION). To examine the specificity of the interaction, bovine serum albumin was tested instead of NAGK and as expected it was not retained on the immobilized-PII matrix under the same conditions (data not shown). This approach was used to test the concentration dependence of the Mg-ATP and 2-OG effects on PII-NAGK interactions. It was found that a concentration of 0.5mM ATP (6mM MgCl2) was sufficient to allow the fixation of most of the NAGK protein onto the immobilized-PII (CITATION A) while the 2-OG effect was already detectable at a concentration of 0.5mM and was maximal at 4mM 2-OG (CITATIONB). Thus, in agreement with the results described above, this complementary approach confirmed that Mg-ATP was required to stabilize the Arabidopsis PII-NAGK complex and 2-OG counteracted this process. In a previous report CITATION, the binding of C and N metabolites to recombinant Arabidopis PII was investigated by isothermal titration calorimetry, but only Mg-ATP and 2-OG were found to bring about thermal changes indicating their interaction with the protein. In view of our observations (CITATION), we analysed the ability of various amino and organic acids (tested each at 5mM) in the presence of Mg-ATP to modulate the interaction between PII and the NAGK using the immobilized-PII technique. Arg and Glu displayed inhibitory effects but to a lesser extent than 2-OG (CITATION A and B). In contrast, other amino acids like Ala (CITATIONB) Gln, Asp, and Asn had no effect (data not shown). Amongst the different organic acids tested, only OAA and citrate exhibited an inhibitory effect on the NAGK-PII interaction (CITATIONC) while isocitrate, malate, malonate, and acetyl-CoA showed no effect (data not shown). In higher plants, NAGK has already been identified as a PII protein partner using PII affinity chromatography and extracts from Arabidopis cell cultures CITATION. In our hands, we were unable to identify NAGK as a PII-interacting protein using chloroplasts isolated from Arabidopsis leaves and the conditions described in CITATION. In view of the results presented in this work, we carried out PII affinity chromatography using chloroplastic soluble protein extracts. The presence of Mg-ATP was an essential condition for the binding of chloroplastic NAGK to immobilized-PII that was eluted by 5mM 2-OG in the elution buffer (data not shown). Indeed, after SDS–PAGE a 30kDa protein band was excised and identified as NAGK by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (data not shown).
!~MM~! Plants and growth conditions. Wild-type plants of Arabidopsis Wassilewskija ecotype (WS) were grown on sterilized compost in a greenhouse under short-day conditions CITATION. Chloroplast preparation. This was performed as described in CITATION. The plants (6-week-old) were maintained in darkness during 24h in order to reduce starch levels then subsequently transferred to light (150μEm−2 s−1) for 20 min. Expression and purification of recombinant PII and NAGK proteins. The fusion construct used for the production of the C-terminal 6-histidine-tagged Arabidopsis PII and NAGK protein minus the predicted transit peptide has been described previously CITATION. PII and NAGK recombinant proteins were produced in Escherichia coli and purified by His-Select Nickel Affinity gel (Sigma) chromatography as described in CITATION. PII affinity chromatography of soluble chloroplast proteins. His6-PII (25mg) was immobilized on 2mL His-Select Nickel Affinity Gel in buffer A (50mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150mM NaCl and a protease inhibitor cocktail). The chloroplast extract from 30–40mg of leaves (10.5mg chlorophyll in 15ml of buffer A±3mM ATP/6mM MgCl2) was loaded onto the column at a flow rate of 0.2ml/min. The flow-through was collected then rechromatographed. Unbound proteins were removed by washing with 50mL of buffer A±ATP/MgCl2. Elution of bound proteins was performed with 5mL of buffer A±ATP/MgCl2 containing 5mM 2-OG. The eluted proteins were precipitated with 10% (w/v) trichloroacetic acid and stored for 12h at −20°C. After centrifugation (12,000g, 30min, 4°C), the resulting pellet was solubilized in 20μL of Laemmli denaturation buffer and subjected to SDS–PAGE (12% acrylamide) according to CITATION. Proteins were detected in gel by silver nitrate staining CITATION. Matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS) analysis. The protein bands were excised, digested with trypsin and identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry at the proteomic platform (PAPSS) of INRA, Jouy-en-Josas, France. Proteins were identified by comparison of peptide masses derived from database sequences. Gel exclusion chromatography. The molecular mass of native PII and NAGK proteins was determined by gel filtration on a Sephacryl S-200 HR chromatography column (1×30cm; total volume, 15ml; bed volume, 7.5ml; void volume, 7.5ml). Recombinant PII (800μg) and NAGK (400μg) were loaded onto the column equilibrated in buffer B (50mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 100mM KCl) in the presence, or absence of 6mM MgCl2 and 3mM ATP. To test the effect of 2-OG on PII-NAGK interactions, 5mM 2-OG was added to buffer B containing 6mM MgCl2 and 3mM ATP. The fractions (0.35ml) were collected at a flow rate of 1mlh−1 and protein content was estimated by OD280 measurement. The presence of PII and NAGK in the eluted fractions was analyzed by gel electrophoresis (15% SDS–PAGE according to CITATION) and Coomassie Blue R-250 staining. Chemical immobilization of PII using (NHS)-activated Sepharose. NHS-activated Sepharose 4 fast flow (GE Healthcare) was prepared according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The PII-NAGK interaction was assayed by adding 5μg His6-NAGK recombinant protein to the gel (100μl) containing the immobilized His6-PII protein under different conditions (see the legend of CITATION for details). After incubation (under constant shaking) for 2h at room temperature followed by centrifugation at 5000g for 10min at 4°C, the supernatant was collected and precipitated with 10% (w/v) trichloroacetic acid. The pellet was re-dissolved in Laemmli denaturation buffer CITATION, subjected to SDS–PAGE (15% acrylamide) and proteins were detected by silver nitrate staining CITATION.
