!~ABS~! Flowering is controlled by a network of pathways that converge to regulate a small number of floral integrator genes. We studied the interactions in Arabidopsis between three of these integrators, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), TWIN SISTER OF FT (TSF) and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1), as well as their repression by the MADS box transcription factor SHORT VEGETATIVE PHASE (SVP). FT is a mobile signal transmitted from the leaf to the meristem to initiate flowering. Using mRNA null alleles, we show that FT and the closely related TSF are not essential for flowering, but that the double mutant is photoperiod-insensitive. Inactivation of both genes also fully suppresses the early-flowering phenotype caused by over-expression of CONSTANS (CO), a transcriptional regulator in the photoperiod pathway. In addition, we demonstrate that TSF and FT have similar biochemical functions by showing that they interact in yeast with the same bZIP transcription factors. Expression of FT or TSF from promoters specific for phloem companion cells drives early flowering of the double mutant, so no expression of either gene is required in the meristem. Furthermore, TSF, like FT, is repressed by SVP, but the triple mutant svp-41 ft-10 tsf-1 expresses SOC1 in the meristem sooner and flowers earlier than ft-10 tsf-1. Thus we distinguish the functions of SVP in repressing FT and TSF in the leaf and SOC1 in the meristem. In addition, a time course of in situ hybridizations suggested that repression of SVP and activation of SOC1 proceed simultaneously in the meristem. These observations clarify the relationships between these early regulators of the floral transition, and further emphasize the relatedness of mechanisms acting in the leaf and meristem to control flowering time.
!~RES~! To investigate genetic interactions between FT, TSF and MFT in controlling the flowering time of Arabidopsis, the effects of mRNA null alleles at each locus were studied (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 1a). Under LDs (16 h light, 8 h dark), ft-10 and tsf-1 mutants flowered with 26 and three more leaves than wild-type, respectively (Figure 1b). In contrast, mft-2 mutants flowered at the same time as wild-type plants. Under SDs, all single mutants flowered at the same time as wild-type. [[FIGURE]] Redundancy between FT and TSF was previously tested using ft-1 (CITATION; CITATION), which has been argued not to be a null allele (CITATION). To test the effect of abolishing the activity of both FT and TSF, two mRNA null mutations were combined, and the flowering time of ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants was measured. Under LDs, these plants flowered later, with 13 more leaves than ft-10 (Figure 1b). This result confirmed that, under LDs, TSF is partially redundant to FT, so that its effect on flowering is more pronounced in the ft-10 background. Under SDs, the ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants flowered at a similar time to wild-type plants or the single mutants (Figure 1b and Appendix S1), indicating that FT and TSF also have no or only a very slight promotive effect on flowering under SDs. The ft-10 tsf-1 plants eventually flower under both day lengths, demonstrating that the requirement for these genes is eventually bypassed in Arabidopsis, unlike in rice (CITATION). Previously, MFT over-expression was reported to cause early flowering (CITATION), raising the possibility that MFT may be responsible for the flowering of ft-10 tsf-1 plants. Therefore, the triple mutant ft-10 tsf-1 mft-2 was generated. However, these plants showed almost the same flowering time under both LDs and SDs as ft-10 tsf-1, so MFT does not promote flowering even in the absence of FT and TSF activity (Figure 1b). Gibberellin (GA) promotes flowering of Arabidopsis, and acts in parallel to the photoperiod pathway (CITATION; CITATION). However, FT and TSF act as pathway integrators and as long-distance signals from the leaves (CITATION), while GA can also trigger flowering when applied to leaves (CITATION). Application of GA3 caused ft-10tsf-1 plants to flower with 12 leaves fewer than untreated plants. A similar effect was observed with wild-type plants, which flowered with 13 leaves fewer after GA3 treatment. Thus, FT and TSF are not required for promotion of flowering by exogenous GA (Figure 1c,d), consistent with previous data suggesting that GA and FT/TSF promote flowering through distinct pathways (CITATION). TSF is rapidly induced by dexamethasone application to 35S:CO:GR plants (CITATION). We tested whether TSF was also activated by CO:CO:GR, in which CO:GR is expressed at similar levels to endogenous CO and from the CO promoter which is active in the vascular tissue. Leaves of CO:CO:GR plants were treated with dexamethasone, and TSF mRNA was analyzed in treated and untreated leaves (Figure 2a). TSF mRNA increased in treated leaves on dexamethasone application, but did not increase in untreated distal leaves. MFT mRNA levels were not affected by CO:CO:GR induction, suggesting that they are not regulated by CO (data not shown). As observed for FT, our data indicate that TSF is activated by CO autonomously in those leaves in which active CO is present and not indirectly in other leaves (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To test the contribution of FT and TSF to the promotion of flowering downstream of CO, the SUC2:CO transgene, which over-expresses CO in the phloem companion cells, was introduced into the ft-10 and ft-10 tsf-1 backgrounds. SUC2:CO ft-10 plants flowered earlier than ft-10 mutants under LDs and SDs, but significantly later than SUC2:CO plants (Figure 2b). A similar effect was obtained with SUC2:HA:CO (Figure 2b). Therefore, FT makes an important contribution to the early flowering of SUC2:CO, but, in the absence of FT, the SUC2:CO transgene can still promote much earlier flowering. As CO also activates TSF (Figure 2a) (CITATION), a likely possibility is that TSF contributes to the early-flowering phenotype of SUC2:CO ft-10 plants. To test this possibility, the mRNA levels of TSF were first examined in SUC2:CO ft-10 plants. TSF mRNA was around 24 times more abundant in SUC2:CO ft-10 plants than in wild-type plants (Figures 2c and S1), consistent with the idea that TSF promotes flowering of SUC2:CO ft-10. Indeed, TSF mRNA was approximately 2.5 times more abundant in SUC2:CO ft-10 or SUC2:HA:CO ft-10 plants than in SUC2:CO, suggesting that high levels of FT might reduce TSF transcription in SUC2:CO, as previously observed in plants carrying a dominant gain-of-function allele of FT (CITATION). The flowering time of SUC2:CO ft-10 tsf-1 plants was then tested under LDs and SDs (Figure 2b). These plants flowered with an almost identical number of leaves to ft-10 tsf-1 plants, demonstrating that FT and TSF are essential for the early flowering caused by CO over-expression in the phloem. Furthermore, although the leaves of SUC2:CO plants contained around 1.5 times higher levels of SOC1 mRNA than those of wild-type plants, this effect was suppressed in SUC2:CO ft-10 and SUC2:CO ft-10 tsf-1 plants (Figure 2c). Therefore, over-expression of CO activates SOC1 expression in leaves indirectly through FT, as demonstrated for 35S:CO plants (CITATION). However, there was no reduction of SOC1 mRNA in leaves of ft-10 tsf-1 plants compared to those of Columbia (wild-type), indicating that FT and TSF are not required for SOC1 expression in leaves of wild-type plants (Figure 2c). FT expression from phloem-specific promoters is sufficient to promote early flowering and to complement the ft-7 or ft-3 mutations (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These results were interpreted as demonstrating that FT expression is not required in the meristem to promote flowering; however, all of these experiments were performed in the presence of an active TSF allele, which is partially redundant with FT. To investigate whether expression of FT or TSF in the phloem is sufficient to promote flowering of plants completely lacking endogenous FT and TSF, both genes were mis-expressed in ft-10 tsf-1 plants from the SUC2 or GAS1 promoters, which are active in phloem companion cells (CITATION; CITATION). The GAS1:FT ft-10 tsf-1 and SUC2:FT ft-10 tsf-1 plants flowered as early under LDs and SDs as the GAS1:FT ft-10 and SUC2:FT ft-10 plants did (Figure 3a,b). Therefore, expression of FT in the phloem companion cells is sufficient to promote flowering in plants carrying mRNA null alleles of both FT and TSF. Furthermore, expression of TSF from the SUC2 promoter caused early flowering of ft-10 tsf-1 to a similar extent as for SUC2:FT, indicating that the FT and TSF proteins have similar capacities to promote flowering when expressed from promoters specific to the companion cells. [[FIGURE]] Mis-expression of FT and TSF in the companion cells from the heterologous SUC2 promoter demonstrated that these proteins can promote flowering to a similar extent, suggesting that they promote flowering by a related mechanism. FT activates flowering by interacting in the meristem with the bZIP transcription factor FD (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether TSF can also interact with FD, a yeast two-hybrid test was performed, similar to those used to demonstrate an interaction between FT and FD. An interaction between TSF and FD was clearly detected in these experiments, and growth of yeast cells was promoted as effectively by the interaction between TSF and FD as by FT and FD (Figure 4a). Furthermore, an interaction between TSF and the FD-PARALOG protein (FDP) was also detected, as previously shown for FT (Figure 4b) (CITATION; CITATION). To genetically test the significance of the interaction between FD and TSF, the fd-3 mutation was crossed to ft-10 and ft-10 tsf-1 plants, and the flowering time of the resulting double and triple mutants was measured (Figure S2). The fd-3 ft-10 mutant flowered later than ft-10 and at a similar time to ft-10 tsf-1, consistent with the idea that FD is required for the residual activity of TSF in an ft-10 mutant. In addition, the triple mutant fd-3 ft-10 tsf-1 flowered at a similar time to ft-10 tsf-1, indicating that FD has no effect on flowering in the absence of FT and TSF. These experiments support the notion that FT and TSF both promote flowering through interaction with FD; however, because the ft-10 tsf-1 double mutant flowers much later than fd-3 (Figure S2), FT and TSF must also promote flowering independently of FD. [[FIGURE]] Proteins related to FT promote flowering in a wide range of species. To test whether rice RFT1 can promote flowering of Arabidopsis, transgenic ft-7 mutants carrying 35S:RFT1 and SUC2:RFT1 were produced. These transgenic plants flowered extremely early (Figure S3). Furthermore, both RFT1 and Hd3a interacted with Arabidopsis FD and FDP in the yeast two-hybrid system (Figure 4a,b). Finally, the ability of other members of the Arabidopsis CETS domain protein family to interact with FD and FDP was tested. No interaction between BROTHER OF FT AND TFL1 (BFT), ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA CENTRORADIALIS HOMOLOGUE (ATC) or TFL1 with FD or FDP could be detected in this system (Figure 4). Therefore, there is a striking correlation between the capacity of CETS proteins FT, TSF and RFT1 to promote flowering of Arabidopsis and to interact with the bZIP proteins FD and FDP, further supporting the idea that these interactions are important in the promotion of flowering. FT and TSF are both activated by CO (Figure 2a) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), while FT is negatively regulated by the MADS box protein SVP (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether TSF is also negatively regulated by SVP, TSF mRNA levels were compared between svp-41 mutants and wild-type plants. Furthermore, because the abundance of both FT and TSF mRNAs varies during a diurnal cycle, each mRNA was tested at 4 h intervals in wild-type and svp-41 mutants during a long day (Figure 5a,b). In svp-41 mutants, the abundance of both FT and TSF mRNA is increased. The diurnal pattern of expression of these two genes is very similar in svp-41 compared to wild-type, but with a general increase in svp-41. Thus both FT and TSF are repressed by SVP, and, in the absence of this MADS box transcription factor, the peaks of abundance of FT and TSF mRNAs are higher, correlating with earlier flowering. Additionally, in svp-41 co-10 double mutants, the level of expression of both FT and TSF mRNA is strongly reduced, indicating that CO is required to promote high expression of FT and TSF in svp-41 mutants. [[FIGURE]] FT and TSF mRNA levels are increased in the svp-41 mutant (Figure 5a,b) (CITATION), and both genes promote early flowering from the phloem companion cells (Figure 3). To assess the role of these proteins in promoting early flowering of svp-41 mutants, the double mutants and the svp-41 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutant were constructed and their flowering times compared with those of the wild-type and the progenitors (Figure 5c). The svp-41 ft-10 plants flowered earlier than svp-41 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants under LDs and SDs, emphasizing the importance of TSF in contributing to the early flowering of svp-41 ft-10 plants. The triple mutant also flowered with approximately 30 fewer leaves than ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants under both LDs and SDs, and was still insensitive to day length. In addition, the triple mutant flowered with around 22 more leaves than svp-41 mutants under LDs and seven more leaves under SDs. Therefore, FT and TSF do contribute to the early flowering of svp-41 mutants, especially under LDs. However, even in the presence of the mRNA null mutations ft-10 and tsf-1, the svp-41 mutation causes significantly earlier flowering. Similarly, the svp-41 co-10 double mutant, in which the mRNA levels of both FT and TSF are low, flowers early compared to co-10 single mutants under LDs and SDs (Figure 5c). The observation that svp-41 causes early flowering in the absence of activity of FT and TSF, the genes at the end of the known flowering-time pathways in the leaf, suggests that SVP probably also negatively regulates genes that promote flowering in the meristem, such as SOC1 (CITATION), independently of its roles in repressing FT and TSF. SVP delays flowering by repressing FT, TSF and SOC1 transcription (Figure 5a,b) (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we tested by in situ hybridization the contributions of FT, TSF and SVP to the regulation of SOC1 expression in the meristem (Figures 6 and 7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] First, in situ hybridizations were performed to compare the temporal patterns of expression of SOC1 and SVP in the shoot apical meristems of wild-type Columbia plants grown under LDs. SOC1 mRNA is undetectable in the meristem of 10-day-old plants, but appears in that of 12-day-old plants before any floral primordia are present (Figure 6d,e). By 15 days, SOC1 mRNA is strongly expressed throughout the inflorescence meristem (Figure 6f). In contrast, SVP mRNA was present in the shoot apical meristems of 10-day-old Columbia plants, before SOC1 mRNA was detected (Figure 6a), but is then progressively reduced in abundance (Figure 6b,c). By 15 days, it is almost undetectable in the meristem, although it is present in developing floral primordia (Figure 6c). This reduction in SVP mRNA is regulated by day length, because plants grown under SDs for 14 days still show strong expression of SVP mRNA in the meristem and no detectable SOC1 mRNA (Figure S4). When these plants are shifted to LDs, SOC1 expression appears before SVP mRNA has been strongly down-regulated (Figure S4). The temporal pattern of SOC1 expression was studied in svp-41 mutants. Twelve-day-old svp-41 mutants exhibit very strong SOC1 expression throughout the meristem, while no floral primordia are visible in wild-type plants of the same age, and SOC1 mRNA is only weakly expressed in the meristem (Figure 7a,b). The mutant plants have already formed floral primordia by this time. By 15 days, wild-type plants have formed flowers and express SOC1 more strongly in the meristem (Figure 7d), while svp-41 mutants continue to form flowers (Figure 7e). The contribution of FT and TSF to the activation of SOC1 in the meristem of svp-41 mutants and wild-type plants was then examined. In ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants, SOC1 expression was strongly delayed compared to wild-type and was usually undetectable even in 24-day-old plants (Figure 7i), although SOC1 mRNA was detectable a few days later. In contrast, SOC1 mRNA appeared in the meristem of svp-41 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants between 12 and 15 days after germination (Figure 7c,f), and was still present in 17- and 20-day-old plants (Figure 7g,h) that had already formed floral primordia. Therefore, in svp-41 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants, SOC1 is activated in the meristem much earlier than in ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants, although still later than in wild-type plants. These results indicate that svp-41 bypasses the effect of ft-10 tsf-1 mutations by allowing SOC1 mRNA expression to occur independently of FT and TSF function. However, because activation of SOC1 occurs much later than in svp-41 mutants or wild-type plants (Figure 7a–c), the extremely early activation of SOC1 in svp-41 mutants must be caused by a combination of de-repression of FT and TSF as well as of SOC1.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col) was used throughout. The ft-10 and mft-2 mutants were from the GABI-Kat T-DNA insertion library (codes 290E08 and 658D03, respectively; http://www.gabi-kat.de/) (CITATION). In ft-10, the T-DNA is inserted into the first intron (CITATION). In mft-2, the insertion is 214 bp from the start of the 3rd intron. The tsf-1 (SALK 087522) and fd-3 (SALK 054421) mutants were obtained from the Salk collection, and have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The co-10 and svp-41 alleles have a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of CO (CITATION; CITATION) and a transposon insertion in the second exon of SVP (CITATION), respectively. For analysis of flowering time and gene expression, plants were grown on soil in controlled environment rooms under LDs (16 h light/8 h dark) or SDs (8 h light/16 h dark). Flowering time was measured by scoring the number of rosette and cauline leaves on the main stem of at least 10 individuals. Data are expressed as mean leaf number ± SD. Dexamethasone treatment of pCO:CO:GR co-2 plants was performed as previously described (CITATION). For the GA3 treatment, cotton sticks soaked with 100 μm GA3 were rubbed on four leaves of wild-type and ft-10 tsf-1 plants grown under SDs. The GA3 was applied for 5 days when the plants were 3 weeks old. The methods used for mRNA expression analysis and all primer information are provided in Appendix S1. The full-length cDNAs for CO, FT, TSF, BFT, TFL1, ATC, FD and FDP were isolated by RT-PCR and produced as entry clones via the BP reaction of the Gateway system (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). The entry clones were then used to construct destination vectors for plant transformation and yeast two-hybrid experiments. To construct SUC2:HA:CO, the CaMV 35S promoter of the pAlligator2 vector (CITATION) was replaced with the SUC2 promoter and the CO cDNA was inserted from an entry clone via LR reaction. All plasmids for plant transformation were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (pMP90RK) (CITATION) and transformed into Columbia wild-type, ft-10 or ft-10 tsf-1 double homozygous plants by the floral-dip method (CITATION). pAS2 and pAct2 vectors were obtained from Clontech (http://www.clontech.com/) and modified to create a Gateway version. The appropriate plasmids were transformed into yeast strain Y-190 using the lithium acetate method and selected on SD medium lacking leucine (Leu) and tryptophan (Trp). After 4 days of incubation at 30°C, yeast cells were streaked on new SD medium for the X-gal test (CITATION; CITATION). The methods used for in situ hybridization and the primers used to create the probe fragments are described in Appendix S1.
