!~ABS~! We report on the characterization of the interaction between reactive oxygen species signalling and abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated gene network in ozone (O3) stress response. To identify the stress-related signalling pathways and possible cross-talk controlled by an ABA-negative regulator, the protein phosphatase 2C abscisic acid insensitive1 (ABI1), we performed a genome-wide transcription profiling of O3-treated wild-type and ABI1 knockout (abi1td) plants. In addition, to better understand ABA signalling and the interactions between stress response pathways, we performed a microarray analysis of drought-treated plants. Functional categorization of the identified genes showed that ABI1 is involved in the modulation of several cellular processes including metabolism, transport, development, information pathways and variant splicing. Comparisons with available transcriptome data sets revealed the extent of ABI1 involvement in both ABA-dependent and ABA-independent gene expression. Furthermore, in O3 stress the ABA hypersensitivity of abi1td resulted in a significant reduction of the ABA level, ethylene (ET) over-production and O3 tolerance. Moreover, the physical interaction of ABI1 with ACC synthase2 and ACC synthase6 was shown. We provide a model explaining how ABI1 can regulate both ABA and ET biosynthesis. Altogether, our findings indicate that ABI1 plays the role of a general signal transducer linking ABA and ET biosynthesis as well as signalling pathways to O3 stress tolerance.
!~RES~! To obtain an insight into the role of ABA signalling in regulating the O3 stress response, we compared gene expression in stress-treated abi1td knockout line with that of WT using the ATH1 Genome Array. An ABI1 T-DNA knockout was isolated in our laboratory from the SALK collection of T-DNA insertion lines (Alonso et al. CITATION; see “Materials and methods”). The sequence analysis allowed us to map the inserted T-DNA at nucleotide 1132 in the third exon of the ABI1 gene (Supplementary Figure 1a). The knockout of the ABI1 expression by insertion was confirmed by qPCR (Supplementary Figure 1b). The isolated mutant line was subjected to detailed molecular and biochemical analyses to characterize its phenotype in cellular signalling and stress response. As expected, the abi1td mutant exhibited ABA hypersensitivity in germination, hypersensitivity to salinity, osmotic stress, sugar in germination and enhanced stomatal response to ABA (see Supplementary Figures 2, 3, 4). The O3 concentration (350 ppb) for the investigation of the ABI1 gene expression profile in O3-tolerant Col-0 WT plants was chosen based on our preliminary experiments and published data (Ludwikow et al. CITATION; Joo et al. CITATION) (Fig. 1). This earlier observation indicated that the ABI1 transcript level progressively increased during the stress period, implying that ABI1 mediated a more prolonged response to O3 stress conditions. In addition, to reveal the global patterns of ABA-regulated gene expression in the abi1td mutant and to test the interactions between stress–response pathways, the abi1td mutant and WT plants were subjected to drought stress treatment. Drought stress was induced by stopping watering for 5 days. We consistently found that under the experimental conditions used, Arabidopsis thaliana visibly wilted after the 5-day treatment and reached on average 50% RWC. [[FIGURE]]  To validate the robustness of the expression data obtained by the microarray analysis, we used qPCR. For the analysis, we selected 22 genes, which showed expression changes ranging from 0.14 to 290 and encoded high and extremely low (<100 signal intensity) abundance transcripts. In general, the expression ratios obtained with qPCR were higher than those obtained with the ATH1 Genome Array. The ATH1 Genome Array results were found to be in excellent agreement with the qPCR data, having a high confirmation rate of 83.27% (y = 1.0558x − 0.0321, R 2 = 0.8327; Fig. 2) (Supplementary Table 2). As expected, the validation experiment showed that values lower than a twofold change were not reliable. In addition, we could not confirm the expression changes for genes, the signal intensities of which were below 100 in all conditions. Therefore, probe sets with these values were excluded from further considerations. Our analyses are thus limited to genes with a statistically significant difference in expression level, showing hybridization signal values above 100 and a fold difference equal to or larger than 2 between control and treatments. [[FIGURE]]  Microarray analysis revealed that the expression profiles of a number of genes were changed in the abi1td mutant compared to WT Col-0 plants on abiotic stress treatment. In total, 384 and 120 genes were consistently differentially expressed by the abi1td mutant compared to WT in O3 and drought stress, respectively (Table 2; see Supplementary Tables 3, 4 for complete listing). Among 484 differentially expressed genes in abi1td, accounting for approximately 2.0% of the 24,000 genes represented in the ATH1 Array, 100 responded exclusively to drought stress and 364 to O3 stress, while 20 genes were commonly expressed in both stress treatments. Alternatively, genes can be classified according to their fold change in expression: of the 484 genes, the expression of which was exclusively affected in abi1td, 206 and 25 were up-regulated, and 178 and 95 were down-regulated in the abi1td mutant in response to O3 and drought, respectively (Table 3).[[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] To identify particular metabolic pathways or cellular functions that are impacted in the abi1td mutant in O3 stress and to correlate them with the gene expression pattern, standard K-mean clustering of all 484 genes was performed. Drought-treated samples were included in the analysis to identify the specificity of the ABI1 pathway in O3 stress response. K-means clustering resulted in four major clusters that distinguish the data set with respect to the applied treatments (Supplementary Fig. 5). Cluster I contains 95 genes that are up-regulated in O3 and drought, cluster II contains 189 genes that are down-regulated in O3 and drought stresses, and cluster III and IV represent 152 and 48 genes up-regulated in O3 and drought stress, respectively. Over-representation of functional categories in each cluster was analysed using categorizations from the MIPS database (Ruepp et al. CITATION). Supplementary Table 5 shows an overview of these statistically significant categories and all assigned FunCats with respect to their expression pattern. Immediately evident was the most prominent response for genes involved in metabolic pathways and transport. Genes related to transport were identified in clusters II–III, while the gene transcripts related to metabolism were found significantly abundant across all clusters. Among these, genes involved in hormone transport (auxin polar transport: PIN7, PIN4) were down-regulated in O3 and drought stress (cluster II). Genes related to transport routes (DIS1, MYA2) and vacuolar/lysosomal transport (AT1G30900, AT4G20110) were found up-regulated in O3. Cluster II was also significantly enriched in genes related to phosphate metabolism and metabolism of secondary products derived from l-methionine (ACS2, AT5G43450). Significant gene groups related to C-compound and carbohydrate metabolism, including metabolism of phospholipids (CDS1, AT5G55480), fatty acid biosynthesis (MOD1, FAD3, FAH1, FAD2) and isoprenoid metabolism (ABA2, AT1G60600), were found down-regulated independently of the stress treatment (cluster II), as were genes related to amino acid metabolism. Genes involved in nitrogen metabolism (AT1G29900, AT3G47450) and purin nucleotide/nucleoside/nucleobase metabolism (AT1G50480, AT3G22960, AT3G23810) were also identified in cluster II. In addition, several known cell wall-localized proteins, plasma membrane or membrane-attached proteins, as well as chloroplast and extracellular proteins, were identified in cluster II. Among these, we identified a proline-rich protein (PRP4), an expansin A8 (EXP8) and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein (COB) involved in cell growth. Genes involved in secondary metabolism or plant hormone biosynthesis form another important group in the abi1td-de-regulated data set. For example, several such genes were identified as members of clusters I and III, including ACC synthase (ACS2), a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED3) and a jasmonic acid carboxyl methyltransferase (JMT), suggesting that ABI1 might be involved in the regulation of stress-induced ET, ABA and JA synthesis, respectively. Previously it was shown that abi1-1 had increased ABA accumulation (Verslues and Bray CITATION). Interactions between ABA and ET cascades were also reported (Ghassemian et al. CITATION; LeNoble et al. CITATION; McCourt et al. CITATION). Therefore, we verified whether and how abi1td-regulated ABA or ET synthesis changed in stress conditions. As shown in Fig. 3, the abi1td mutant is deficient in ABA synthesis in O3 and drought stress. Thus, our results demonstrate that the ABA hypersensitivity of abi1td can be linked to changes in ABA biosynthesis. The regulation of ET synthesis by ABI1 also is described. [[FIGURE]]  Another interesting result was the detection of a number of genes-encoding components of signal transduction cascades including phospholipase (PLDZETA1; Li et al. CITATION), receptor-like protein kinases, disease-resistance proteins, as well as protein phosphatases and protein kinases that were significantly enriched across all functional O3 clusters. Most of these genes have not been described at the cellular level; nevertheless, several have been reported for their involvement in plant development, while others were involved in phosphate recycling or known as regulators of the ABA signalling pathway. For example, in the O3 and drought down-regulated cluster, genes encoding a CLAVATA1-related receptor kinase-like protein (BAM1, BAM2) required for shoot and flower meristem function (DeYoung et al. CITATION) were identified. In addition, genes coding for the regulators of ABA, stress signalling and stomatal movement such as MEK1 (Jiang et al. CITATION; Mészáros et al. CITATION), ABI2, HAB1, ICMT and GPA1 (Saez et al. CITATION, CITATION; Yoshida et al. CITATION) were identified. This indicates that ABI1 phosphatase might regulate the gene expression of other members of the ABA signalling pathway. The pattern of regulation may be highly dependent on the stress conditions. Clusters III and IV showed a particularly strong response for genes related to plant hormone JA. Genes that belong to this group were significantly up-regulated in O3 and drought stresses, suggesting a general trend of expression for these genes in the abi1td mutant. Among these, we found reduced transcript levels for transcriptional activator MYC2 (Boter et al. CITATION), a multi-responsive WRKY18 transcription factor as well as a pathogenesis-related protein (PR2), an extensin (EXT4), an acidic phosphatase gene (VSP1), epithiospecifier protein involved in pathogen resistance and leaf senescense and a JMT involved in JA biosynthesis (Seo et al. CITATION; Burow et al. CITATION). It appears, therefore, that ABI1 acts as a regulator of JA-related genes in O3 and drought stress conditions. As expected, a significant representation of ABA-related genes were found specifically up-regulated by O3 and drought conditions in cluster I. This group includes several known genes that were reported previously to be induced by ABA, salt, cold or dehydration stress (Hoth et al. CITATION; Seki et al. CITATION; Sanchez et al. CITATION). Those genes include LTI30 and COR15A with a putative function in freezing tolerance, a transcriptional activator of ABA-mediated dehydration response RD26 and a multi-responsive MYB7 and MYB44 transcription factors. Several factors have been shown to play roles in drought tolerance. In addition, an ABI2 PP2C known for its involvement in ABA-mediated signalling was also found de-regulated in abi1td as well as the MYC2 transcription factor involved in the regulation of diverse JA-dependent functions (Takahashi et al. CITATION). To identify other genes that are ABA regulated in the abi1td data set, we used data deposited in GENEVESTIGATOR (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). We established that nearly 68.5% of the 484 selected genes in the database were ABA regulated (see Supplementary Tables 3, 4). Because there were some selected genes that were not regulated by ABA, this result indicated that besides being an essential regulator of ABA signalling in both stresses, ABI1 might also be involved in the regulation of the ABA-independent signalling pathway. While FunCat is a powerful tool to detect the functional groups of significantly affected genes, it misses some specialized categories related to RNA metabolism, such as AS. This is also a limitation of the ATH1 Genome Array we used, which was not designed to address the detection and quantification of splice variants. In our data set, genes related to RNA processing were up-regulated by O3 and drought stress, including SRp30 encoding a serine–arginine-rich RNA binding protein involved in regulation of splicing (de la Fuente van Bentem et al. CITATION). This result suggested alterations of the splicing profile in the abi1td mutant in O3 and drought stress conditions. Previously, it was established that the splicing activity of SR proteins is regulated by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events and variant splicing (de la Fuente van Bentem et al. CITATION). In addition, SRp30 was identified to be alternatively spliced itself. Therefore, one additional analysis was carried out with the aim of identifying genes that exhibit some form of AS. By using the ASIP blast tool, we identified a group of 125 genes (25.82% of 484 genes) that show variant splicing in the entire abi1td data set (for complete listing see Supplementary Table 6). This over-representation was assessed as highly significant when compared with the occurrence in the Arabidopsis genome (P = 1.1e − 5; the Fisher exact test) (see “Materials and methods”). For most of the identified alternatively spliced genes in abi1td, a single AS event has been observed. Nevertheless, we also identified 25 genes (20%) with multiple AS events (2 and more) within the same transcripts. Moreover, although all five AS types known in Arabidopsis were observed in abi1td, the frequency of occurrence of the alternative acceptor site AS event (AltA) and the intron retention event (IntronR) were found to be affected (Table 4). The AltA and the IntronR events were over- (P = 0.018) and under-represented (0.049), respectively, in abi1td compared to the Arabidopsis thaliana genome.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Furthermore, to examine the biological activity of alternatively spliced transcripts affected in abi1td, we looked for significant representations of functional categories in this subset. As indicated in Supplementary Table 7, the genes significantly over-represented in the AS subset are related to metabolism, perception and response to stimuli, transport, information pathways and localization in the plasma membrane. By contrast, a functional category related to localization in the mitochondrion was under-represented in the subset. These results indicate that ABI1 activity might contribute to protein isoform diversity in stress-treated plants. Our microarray analysis revealed that ABI1 positively regulated the transcription of the ACS2 gene, suggesting a transcriptional correlation between these two genes and the regulation of ET synthesis by ABI1. We quantified the level of ABI1 transcripts in a time course experiment, with a view to correlate it to ACS2 transcript abundance in WT Col-0 and the abi1td mutant. The results revealed that the increase in the ABI1 gene transcription in WT Col-0 correlated with enhanced ACS2 transcript levels. In addition, the ACS2 transcript abundance was significantly decreased in abi1td compared with WT Col-0 (Fig. 4a). These results clearly demonstrated the existence of a transcriptional relationship between ABI1 and ACS2. [[FIGURE]]  So far, no reports have been published on the involvement of ACC synthase2 (ACS2) in O3-induced ET elevation. However, it is known that the phosphorylation of ACC synthase6 (ACS6) and ACS2 by MAPK6 increases protein stability and ET biosynthesis (Liu and Zhang CITATION). This suggests a posttranscriptional regulation of ET biosynthesis under O3 stress conditions. First, we analysed whether ABI1 interacts with ACS2 or ACS6 protein using yeast-two hybrid assay. The results showed that both ACS2 and ACS6 proteins are interacting partners for ABI1 phosphatase (Fig. 4b). Furthermore, we analysed whether this interaction may contribute to changes in ET accumulation. We measured the ACC content in the abi1td mutant and WT Col-0 plants. For comparison, we also used the ein2 mutant that has been shown to exhibit higher ET abundance than WT, due to the mutation affecting the feedback mechanism of ET synthesis (Wang et al. CITATION). We showed that abi1td produced significantly more ACC than did WT (P < 0.003), suggesting an increase in ACC synthase activity (Fig. 4c). Moreover, the ACC levels in ein2 and abi1td mutants did not differ significantly from each other (P > 0.46). Since ET over-production in abi1td did not correlate with the over-expression of ET-related transcripts, we analysed the sensitivity of abi1td to ACC. The result revealed that abi1td has WT sensitivity to ET in germination assays (Fig. 4d). To investigate the physiological relevance of the interaction between ABI1 and ACS2 or ACS6, we analysed the O3 sensitivity of abi1td and WT plants. As shown in Fig. 5, the abi1td mutant had increased tolerance to high O3 concentration compared to WT plants. These results clearly demonstrated the importance of ABI1 in the posttranscriptional regulation of ET synthesis induced by O3 stress. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia, abi1td and ein2 mutants (stock no. N1093, SALK_076309, CS8844, ABRC, Columbus, OH, USA) were sterilized with bleach, chilled for 4 days, transferred to a growth chamber and grown on compost three to five plants per pot. Plants were watered daily; once a week plants were irrigated with mineral nutrient solution (5 mM KNO3, 2.5 mM KH2PO4 (adjusted to pH 6.5), 2.0 mM MgSO4, 2.0 mM Ca(NO3)2, 50 μM Fe-EDTA, 70 μM H3BO3, 14 μM MnCl2, 0.5 μM CuSO4, 1 μM ZnSO4, 0.2 μM Na2MoO4, 10 μM NaCl, 0.01 μM CoCl2, pH 6.5). Environmental conditions in the chamber included a 16-h photoperiod from 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m., ~300 μmol m−2 s−1 photon flux density, 75% relative humidity, the circulating air flow path and a temperature of 21°C. O3 stress was performed by exposure of 4-week-old plants to 350 ppb of O3 dose from 9.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. for 1 day. O3 was produced from O2 with an electrical discharge. O3 concentration was determined by an ASIN GDC31 O3 sensor (Aseko, Prague, Czech Republic). For the microarray experiment, leaf tissues from WT and the abi1td mutant were harvested directly into liquid nitrogen after 3 and 6 h of O3 treatment. For the O3-time course experiment, ABA and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) content measurements in 4-week-old WT Col-0 and abi1td plants were subjected to O3 treatment and the plant material was collected after 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 9 and 24 h from the beginning of O3 exposure. The control plants were maintained in O3-free conditions. Drought stress was applied to well-watered 3-week-old plants by withholding water for 5 days until plant samples reached 52.5 ± 7.5% of relative water content. RWC: (fresh weight − dry weight)/(turgid weight − dry weight) × 100. The control plants received water regularly. In each pot, leaves from one plant were harvested for RWC analysis. All measurements were made on three or more replicates. Control and stress-treated plant material were collected simultaneously to avoid any long-term differences in stress response. The abi1td was selected from the SALK collection of T-DNA insertion lines, which corresponds to stock number SALK_076309 (ABRC stock no: abi1td; TAIR accession: Communication:501721656). To distinguish homozygous and hemizygous plants, genomic DNA was extracted from kanamycin-resistant plants and then the T-DNA insertion was confirmed by PCR reaction as described at http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress. For genetic complementation studies, the abi1td mutant was backcrossed to the wild-type plant. The F2 progeny was collected and subjected to kanamycin resistance and ABA assay. Segregation of the phenotype was analysed with the χ 2 test and Excel software. F2 seeds and heterozygotes from the F3 progeny exhibited ABA tolerance and sensitivity according to a 3:1 ratio (WT for abi1td χ 2 = 1.291, P > 0.2; abi1td for WT χ 2 = 0.027, P > 0.8). PCR-based segregation analysis revealed that seeds homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were ABA-hypersensitive and kanamycin-resistant. For functional complementation, the abi1td plants were transformed with pART:ABI1cDNA under CaMV promoter using the floral dip method with Agrobacterium tumefaciens AGL1 strain. The construct was validated by sequencing. T1 seeds were harvested and screened on a 1/2 MS selection medium containing 0.5 μM of ABA (Sigma-Aldrich, Poznan, Poland). The seedlings with a WT germination rate were further analysed by Northern blot to confirm transgene expression. This complementation restored ABI1 expression and eliminated the ABA-hypersensitive phenotype of abi1td plants. T2 and T3 progenies from two independent lines were subsequently used for complementation assay on 1/2 MS, supplemented with 0.5 μM ABA. To analyse the data of various microarray experiments, we used the plant materials grown in the same conditions (see Sect. “Plant growth and stress treatments”). Total RNA was extracted in triplicate from five plants. Then, corresponding extractions were pooled and 15 μg of total RNA from the pooled samples was used for a single microarray hybridization experiment using ATH1 Genome Array (Affymetrix, High Wycombe, UK). cRNA synthesis, labelling, hybridization and scanning were performed according to the standard Affymetrix protocol at Microarray Core, Manchester. The reliability and reproducibility of the microarray analyses were ensured by using biological replicates in the experiment (Table 1), as well as extensive microarray data validation using plant samples from additional stress treatments. A complete microarray data set was submitted in MIAME (Minimum Information About a Microarray Experiment)-compliant format to the ArrayExpress database (accession number E-MEXP-1863). The raw image data from a total of 22 ATH1 arrays were normalized with RMA. The normalized data were statistically analysed in Partek GS software (Partek Inc., St Louis, MO, USA). To determine statistically significant changes derived from the mutation, two-way ANOVA [test type: parametric test, assume variances equal; first parameter: mutation (M); second parameter: treatment (T)] was applied. Gene lists of differentially expressed genes were controlled for false discovery rate errors by using the method of Q value (Storey and Tibshirani CITATION). Q value of <0.18 was assessed to be significant. With respect to the applied statistics, two parameters, “mutation” (Q value M) and “interaction” (Q value M × T), refer to de-regulated gene expression in abi1td: “mutation” indicates genes with a significant change that is mutation dependent and “interaction” represents a significant change due to stress that is mutant dependent, or conversely a significant change due to mutation that is stress state dependent. According to validation data probe sets with signal intensity values below 100-signal intensity in all conditions were excluded. Following this, genes that were twofold over-expressed or twofold under-expressed were selected. Therefore, our analyses are limited to probe sets with a statistically significant difference in expression level (Q value <0.18), hybridization signal values above 100 and an equal or larger than twofold difference between control and treatments. This genelist has been validated by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR) and found to reliably detect differences between the investigated samples.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] For a correlation of the gene expression patterns with function and promoter sequence in the probe set significantly changed by the criteria described, k-mean clustering (k = 4) was used. The Pearson correlation as the measure of distance between clusters was applied (Genespring 7.3.1 software, Agilent, Warsaw, Poland). Clustering was performed on the means of each sample group (log 2) that had been z-transformed (for each probe set, the mean was set to 0 and standard deviation to 1). Annotation of each gene sequence was taken from the TAIR database. The functional distribution of genes in the abi1td data set was calculated by using the Munich Information Centre for Protein Sequencing (MIPS) Functional catalogue (Ruepp et al. CITATION). The identification of alternatively splice sequences was performed in the PlantGDB database using ASIP blast tool available at http://www.plantgdb.org/ASIP/tools/. The occurrence of alternative splice events in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome was calculated based on the predictions of alternative splicing (AS) events available in ASIP. In our calculations, the Fisher exact test was employed to determine if the distribution of the alternatively spliced events observed in the abi1td data set was significantly different to that seen in Arabidopsis. Microsoft Excel was used to manage the microarray data. The ABA extraction was performed according to Michaelle Hall and Dale Lynn Vogelien as described in http://science.kennesaw.edu/~dvogelie/. (+)ABA content was determined by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using the Phytodetek ABA test kit (Agdia Inc., Elkhart, IN, USA). From 4-week-old WT and mutant plants (grown under normal and stress conditions) 2 g of rosette leaves were homogenized in the ABA extraction buffer consisting of 80% methanol, 20 mM NaHCO3 and 0.001% BHT. Following the 3-day extraction, the supernatants were concentrated for 2 h by evaporation and stored at −20°C. ABA was quantified according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The absorbance at 405 nm was read with a plate reader (Rosys Anthos 2010, Poland). ABA content was determined based on ABA calibration standards and a logit transformation of data and finally expressed as pmol/g FW. Statistical significance was determined using the Student’s t test (two samples assuming equal variance) and Excel software. 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid measurements were basically performed as described by Wang and Arteca (CITATION), relying on the conversion of ACC to ET with NaOCl in the presence of Hg2+. As much as 2 g of leaf tissue was harvested into liquid nitrogen, homogenized with 2 ml of MiliQ water and centrifuged at 3200g for 15 min. For the assay, 0.2 ml of 6.8 mM HgCl2 was added to 1 ml of plant extract or ACC standard solutions in 5-ml test tubes. The tubes were sealed and then 0.3 ml of 5% NaOCl in 5.5 M NaOH was injected to convert ACC to ET. After 2 min, 0.1 ml of the gas sample was determined by the gas chromatograph (CP3800, Varian Inc, Warsaw, Poland) equipped with the DB-1 column (30-m long, 0.53-mm and 1.5-μm film thickness) with an argon flow of 10 ml/min (pressure 5.0 psi, 40°C–6.6 psi 100°C and P1041 injector) and a flame ionization detector (FID, Varian Inc.). The temperature program was 40°C for 3 min, 20°C/min for 3 min and 100°C for 3 min (FID sensitivity 12, temperature 220°C; injector temperature 200°C). The quantification of ACC content in the biological sample was determined from an ACC standard curve. Statistical significance was determined using the Student’s t test (two samples assuming equal variance) and Excel software. To generate pAS2-1ABI1, the coding region of the ATABI1, ATACS2 and ATACS6 cDNA were amplified (primer sequences available upon request). The PCR products were cloned into the pGEM vector, and then the inserts were digested with corresponding restriction enzymes and ligated into pAS2-1 or pACT2 vectors. Expression vectors were introduced into the yeast strain Y190 by the lithium acetate method and protein interactions were analysed with filter-lift assays as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook. All clones were tested for autoactivation with the addition of 20 μM 3-AT. The O3-dependent oxygen radical damage was assayed by measuring ion leakage from leaf discs. Ion leakage was measured as an increase in the conductance of the floating solution. All measurements were basically performed as described in Overmyer et al. (CITATION) with the following modifications. For each measurement, five leaf discs (7–9 mm in diameter) were floated in 5 ml of MiliQ water for 2 h at room temperature. After incubation, the conductivity of the solution was measured with a conductivity meter (SevenMulti, Mettler Toledo, Warsaw, Poland). The results are expressed as a percentage of total ion content (determined after destroying plants by boiling) and are the means of five to ten replicates. For the GeneChip validation and time course experiment, 2–3 μg of total RNA was subjected to RQ1 DNase treatment (Promega, Straszyn, Poland), then the first-strand cDNA (Abgene and Qiagen kits) was synthesized using half the volume of DNase-treated aliquot. The second half of the DNase-treated RNA sample was used as the negative control (DNase treatment control). Real-time PCR was carried out in an ABI 7700 detection system (Applied Biosystems, Warrington, UK) in the final volume of 15 μl. Duplicated validation assay was performed in triplicate on each cDNA sample, the negative control and no-template controls for each primer pair. As a reference, 18S rDNA (18S-29F and 18S-102R) or ACT2 (act2-123F and act2-190R) were used. The primer sequences used in the assay are indicated in Supplementary Table 1. Data analyses were performed using the Sequence Detector Software (Applied Biosystems). To determine relative quantification, we performed amplification on standard DNA (serial dilutions of Arabidopsis thaliana genomic DNA) for both target and reference genes. The normalized value of the target gene was calculated in Microsoft Excel software as follows: the abundance of the target gene transcript was divided by the amount of the reference gene transcript. The relative ratio (fold change) for each gene was calculated by the division of the corresponding normalized values of stress-treated versus a non-treated control sample.
