!~ABS~! The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) triggers production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in guard cells via the AtrbohD and AtrbohF NADPH oxidases, leading to stomatal closure. The ABA-activated SnRK2 protein kinase open stomata 1 (OST1) (SRK2E/SnRK2.6) acts upstream of ROS in guard cell ABA signaling. Here, we report that OST1 phosphorylates Ser13 and Ser174 on AtrbohF. In addition, substitution of Ser174 to Ala results in a ∼40% reduction in the phosphorylation of AtrbohF by OST1. We also show that OST1 physically interacts with AtrbohF. These results provide biochemical evidence suggesting that OST1 regulates AtrbohF activity.
!~RES~! The AtrbohF amino acid sequence was examined to find Ser/Thr residues that are likely to be phosphorylated by OST1, which displays similar phosphorylation preferences as the related SnRK2.10 kinase (S. Merlot, B. Turk, unpublished data). Based on the fact the SnRK2.10 kinase preferentially phosphorylates Ser/Thr in the motif [LIMVF]XRXXS/T CITATION, we identified three putative OST1 phosphorylation sites (Thr91, Ser97, Ser174) in the N-terminal region of AtrbohF. To test whether OST1 can phosphorylate AtrbohF, we carried out in vitro phosphorylation assays using a peptide from the region flanking Ser174 (LDRTRS174SAQR) as a substrate for OST1. The peptide was phosphorylated by OST1 with a K m of 8.3±1.49μM and a V max of 2.4±0.2nmol/min/mg (CITATION A). We then examined whether the AtrbohF protein can be phosphorylated by OST1. Because of the very low expression level and solubility of the full-length AtrbohF protein when expressed in E. coli, we used an N-terminal cytosolic domain of AtrbohF (amino acid residues 1–378) in our analysis. CITATIONB shows that the N-terminal domain of AtrbohF was also efficiently phosphorylated by OST1, indicating that AtrbohF is a substrate of OST1 in vitro. To determine whether the predicted Ser174 is phosphorylated by OST1, we mutated Ser174 to Ala and compared the phosphorylation of AtrbohF and AtrbohFS174A. CITATION shows that the S174A mutation resulted in a ∼40% reduction in phosphorylation in the mutant AtrbohFS174A. This result suggests that either Ser174 is one of the amino acid residues that are phoshorylated by OST1 or the mutation changes the conformation of AtrbohF such that another residue in the protein cannot be as efficiently phosphorylated. To verify the phosphorylation of Ser174 and to identify additional amino acid residues that are phosphorylated by OST1, AtrbohF and AtrbohFS174A were phosphorylated by OST1, digested with trypsin, proteinase K and chymotrypsin, and then subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. The LC-MS/MS analysis covered 83% of the protein sequence (CITATION). As anticipated, Ser174 was found to be phosphorylated (CITATION A and B). We also found that Ser13 was phosphorylated by OST1 (CITATIONC and D), which was not predicted because of aspartic acid at the −5 position instead of a hydrophobic amino acid. We did not identify other phosphorylated amino acid residues on AtrbohF or AtrbohFS174A. To investigate whether OST1 can physically interact with AtrbohF in plant cells, we conducted the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay CITATION. OST1 and AtrbohF in the BiFC vectors were transiently co-expressed in onion epidermal cells, and reconstituted YFP fluorescence was observed at the periphery of several examined cells when YFPN-OST1 was co-expressed with YFPC-AtrbohF (CITATION ). In contrast, onion epidermal cells expressing either of these constructs in conjunction with the empty vector or a control membrane protein that does not interact with OST1, showed no detectable fluorescent signals (CITATION). This result indicates that OST1 is able to interact with AtrbohF in vivo and further suggests that the interaction occurs near the plasma membrane where NADPH oxidases are localized CITATION. We then examined the sub-cellular localization of OST1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts. GFP-OST1 is localized in the cytoplasm, the nucleus, and in close proximity to the plasma membrane (CITATION ). ABA treatment did not affect OST1 localization, suggesting that the activity of OST1 CITATION but not its sub-cellular localization is regulated by ABA.
!~MM~! Phosphorylation assays were performed as described CITATION using a peptide MALDRTRS174SAQRKKK from the N-terminal region of AtrbohF that was purified to 93.08% by Genecust (http://www.genecust.com/). The peptide (1–100μM) was phosphorylated at 25°C in a 50μl reaction containing 20mM MgCl2, 1mM DTT, 25mM β-glycerophosphate, 0.1mM ATPγ32P (0.14μCinmol−1 ATP), 20mM HEPES, pH 7.4, and 200ng of OST1 expressed in Escherichia coli. GST-AtrbohF and GST-AtrbohFS174A (1μg) were phosphorylated in the same condition with 500ng of OST1 and 0.1mM ATPγ32P (0.46μCinmol−1 ATP). Proteins were resolved by SDS–PAGE and stained with Coomassie Blue. Protein phosphorylation was quantified by phosphoimaging. Details about the cloning and protein expression of GST-AtrbohF and GST-AtrbohFS174A, in vitro phosphorylation assays, and LC-MS/MS analysis are described in CITATION. BiFC assays were performed as described CITATION. The coding region of OST1 was cloned into the pUC-SPYNE vector, resulting in P35S:YFPN-OST1. The coding regions of AtrbohF and AtGLR3.1 were cloned into the pUC-SPYCE and pUC-SPYNE, resulting in P35S:YFPC-AtrbohF and P35S:AtGLR3.1-YFPC, respectively. Particle bombardments onto onion epidermal cells were performed using the Helios Gene Gun (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s manual with the following modifications: each shot delivered 125ng of tested pairs of plasmid DNA with 0.6μm gold particle (0.25 mg per shot) using 200 psi helium pulse. Fluorescence was observed 40h after incubation at RT in the dark using a Zeiss Observer Z1 inverted microscope with 38 HE GFP Zeiss filters. GFP-OST1 was used to transfect Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts, and fluorescent signals were analyzed using a Zeiss LSM 510 Confocal laser scanning microscope. Details about OST1 localization are described in CITATION.
