!~ABS~! Calcium (Ca2+) is a key second messenger in eukaryotes where it regulates a diverse array of cellular processes in response to external stimuli. An important Ca2+ sensor in both animals and plants is calmodulin (CaM). In addition to evolutionarily conserved CaM, plants possess a unique family of CaM-like (CML) proteins. The majority of these CMLs have not yet been studied, and investigation into their physical properties and cellular functions will provide insight into Ca2+ signal transduction in plants. Here we describe the characterization of CML42, a 191-amino acid Ca2+-binding protein from Arabidopsis. Ca2+ binding to recombinant CML42 was assessed by fluorescence spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy, microcalorimetry, and CD spectroscopy. CML42 displays significant α-helical secondary structure, binds three molecules of Ca2+ with affinities ranging from 30 to 430 nm, and undergoes a Ca2+-induced conformational change that results in the exposure of one or more hydrophobic regions. Gene expression analysis revealed CML42 transcripts at various stages of development and in many cell types, including the support cells, which surround trichomes (leaf hairs) on the leaf surface. Using yeast two-hybrid screening we identified a putative CML42 interactor; kinesin-interacting Ca2+-binding protein (KIC). Because KIC is a protein known to function in trichome development, we examined transgenic CML42 knockout plants and found that they possess aberrant trichomes with increased branching. Collectively, our data support a role for CML42 as a Ca2+ sensor that functions during cell branching in trichomes. 
!~RES~! As depicted in Fig. 1, CML42 displays significant sequence identity (∼35%) with CaM, particularly within and adjacent to its three consensus EF-hand motifs (I, III, and IV). However, the sequence of CML42 corresponding to the second EF-hand motif of CaM diverges substantially from canonical architecture, such that an EF-hand-like Ca2+-binding site could not be unambiguously identified. Additionally, CML42 also contains an N-terminal extension of ∼10 residues and longer central linker region when compared with CaM. To assess the impact of Ca2+ binding on the conformation of CML42, we employed far-UV CD and heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy. The far-UV CD spectrum of apo-CML42 reveals a large positive band below 200 nm, with a maximum at 190 nm and local minima at 208 nm and 222 nm indicative of significant α-helical character (Fig. 2). The addition of Ca2+ to CML42 results in a slight decrease in molar ellipticity below 200 nm and a slight increase in the 205–230 nm range suggesting a Ca2+-induced decrease in α-helical content. Deconvolution of the data predicts a 2% decrease in helical content (31% to 29%) for CML42, which is in contrast to the 10% increase observed from CD studies of CaM (CITATION). However, the similar helical content observed in the three-dimensional structures of apo-bound (CITATION, CITATION) and Ca2+-bound (CITATION) CaM led to the latter observations being attributed to helix reorientation (CITATION). Such a reorientation could account for the modest change in helical content observed for CML42; however, an actual reduction in helical content cannot be ruled out.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To obtain greater insight into the degree of Ca2+-induced structural changes in CML42, two-dimensional 1H-15N HSQC NMR spectra of uniformly 15N-labeled recombinant CML42 were collected in the absence or presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 3, A–C). In the absence of Ca2+, the 1H-15N HSQC spectrum of CML42 displays good chemical shift dispersion of 1H-15N correlation resonances, with approximately the number of resonances expected for the 186 non-proline amino acid residues comprising CML42 (Fig. 3A). The large number of resonances located in the central region of the spectrum (7.5–8.5 ppm) suggests a protein fold comprising substantial random coil and α-helical structure; an observation commensurate with the CD data described above. A subset of well resolved resonances with backbone HN chemical shifts of >8.5 ppm is indicative of extended or β-structure within CML42 and is consistent with the short strands that would be expected to immediately follow the Ca2+-binding loops within the EF-hand motifs. Addition of Ca2+ to saturating levels results in an increase in dispersion of backbone HN resonances, including the appearance of a larger number of HN resonances of >8.5 ppm (Fig. 3B). Overlays of the spectra of apo- and Ca2+-bound CML42 (Fig. 3C) illustrate that a substantial number of resonances change position upon addition of Ca2+ and suggest that CML42 undergoes a Ca2+-induced conformational change.  [[FIGURE]] One particularly notable feature of the apo- and Ca2+-bound spectra of CML42 that relates to Ca2+ binding involves the resonances located at 10–10.5 ppm in the 1H dimension and 111–113 ppm in the 15N dimension. Resonances found in this region are typical of the backbone HN resonances of the hinge position 6 of the EF-hand Ca2+-binding loop (typically a Gly residue) in the presence of Ca2+ (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION). Although the identity of these resonances has yet to be confirmed, the presence of two backbone HN resonances in this region of the Ca2+-free spectrum (Fig. 3A) suggests that the regions around the hinge position 6 of two of the EF-hand motifs are in a preformed conformation similar to that of an EF-hand in the Ca2+-bound form. These resonances undergo a Ca2+-induced change in chemical shift (Fig. 3, B and C) and a third resonance appears in the same region under saturating Ca2+ concentrations, which suggests that at least three functional EF-hands exist within CML42.  We previously demonstrated that CML42 displays an electrophoretic mobility shift in the presence of Ca2+ (CITATION), typical of a Ca2+ sensor. Additional features of EF-hand Ca2+ sensors include the Ca2+-induced exposure of a hydrophobic surface responsible for target recognition and Ca2+ affinities tuned to detect Ca2+ fluxes within a cellular environment. To probe the effects of Ca2+ binding on surface hydrophobicity of CML42, ANS-based fluorescence was employed (Fig. 4). ANS is a hydrophobic compound that displays marked changes in its fluorescence emission profile, including a blue shift and an increase in intensity, when in contact with hydrophobic regions of proteins. A blue shift in ANS fluorescence, from 504 to 478.5 nm, occurs in the presence apo-CML42 with a relatively modest 7.2-fold increase in intensity, whereas Ca2+-CML42 caused a blue shift from 504 to 470 nm and a 55.4-fold increase in fluorescence, when compared with the emission spectrum of ANS alone. Addition of EDTA and EGTA returned fluorescence emissions to near-apo levels, illustrating the reversibility of Ca2+ binding and of the exposure of hydrophobic surface(s) in CML42 (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] ITC studies were conducted to investigate the thermodynamic parameters of the CML42-Ca2+ interaction. Representative experimental ITC curves and the derived binding isotherms for Ca2+ binding to the isolated N-terminal domain of CML42 (NtermCML42) comprising residues 1–106 and full-length CML42 are presented in Fig. 5. Data for the NtermCML42-Ca2+ interaction was modeled to a single binding site based on the derived stoichiometry (N) of 1 with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 340 nm, although data for full-length CML42 best fit to a sequential 3-site binding model with Kd values of 300 nm, 7 nm, and 250 nm (Table 1). The latter model is also consistent with the experimental stoichiometry (N) of 3, and overall these observations are consistent with the sequence- based prediction that NtermCML42 comprises only one Ca2+-binding site (Fig. 1) (CITATION). The CML42-Ca2+ interaction displays a negative enthalpy change (ΔH), indicative of an exothermic binding event (Fig. 5 and Table 1). This ΔH can be attributed almost entirely to Ca2+-induced conformational changes in the N- and C-terminal domains of CML42, because the ΔH associated with actual Ca2+ binding/desolvation can be approximated to be zero (CITATION). Ca2+ affinities decreased by 20-fold for NtermCML42 and up to 4-fold for full-length when assessed in the presence of saturating amounts of Mg2+ (Table 1). These latter changes in Ca2+ affinity in this study are similar to the Mg2+-based changes in Ca2+ affinity seen for CaM (CITATION). Despite the observed changes in Ca2+ affinity by CML42 associated with the presence of Mg2+, the values for two of the EF-hand Ca2+-binding sites in CML42 remain within the range expected for Ca2+ sensors (∼10−6-10−7 m) (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] CaM exerts its effect as a Ca2+ sensor by interacting with a variety of downstream targets. To identify possible effectors of CML42, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screen using CML42 as bait (Fig. 6). Three positive interactors were identified, and all represented a Ca2+-binding, caltractin/centrin-like protein (At2g46600) termed KIC (kinesin-interacting Ca2+-binding protein), which has been shown to play a role in regulating trichome branching through interaction with a specific kinesin, KCBP (kinesin calmodulin-binding protein), which is itself a CaM target (CITATION). Reciprocal testing of CML42 and KIC as respective activation-domain (prey) and DNA-binding (bait) fusion proteins confirmed their interaction in the yeast two-hybrid system. Notably, neither CaM nor the CML42 homologue CML43 were able to associate with KIC in our yeast two-hybrid analyses indicating specificity of the CML42-KIC interaction (Fig. 6). To corroborate the yeast two-hybrid result and examine the effect of Ca2+ on CML42-KIC interaction, a co-precipitation assay with bacterially expressed recombinant GST-KIC and CML42 was performed (Fig. 7). CML42 co-precipitated with GST-KIC in a Ca2+-dependent manner but did not interact with GST alone. This interaction was specific to CML42, because CML43 did not co-precipitate with GST-KIC. These in vitro results support the yeast two-hybrid data and suggest that CML42-KIC interaction is both specific and Ca2+-dependent.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the transcript expression patterns of CML42 in Arabidopsis, transgenic plants containing fusion constructs comprising the CML42 promoter region and the GUS reporter enzyme (constructs CML42:: GUS) were tested for GUS activity throughout development (Fig. 8). The results shown represent GUS-staining patterns in at least five independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines. CML42::GUS was expressed at the hypocotyl-root interface beginning shortly after germination (Fig. 8, A and B). In floral tissue, GUS activity was detected in pollen grains, and diffuse expression appeared in the anther and filament of the stamens (Fig. 8C), whereas in roots expression was restricted to mature tissue and was absent from root meristems and the root cap (Fig. 8, D and G). In leaves, expression was present throughout young developing rosette (Fig. 8E) and cauline leaves (not shown) and receded to veins and the petiole as the leaves matured (Fig. 8H). Expression in leaves was localized primarily to the ring of cells surrounding the developing trichomes (Fig. 8, E, F, and H–K). Expression in these cells, termed trichome support (or socket) cells, began in the third rosette leaf and was present in all subsequent rosette and cauline leaves (Fig. 8, E and H). Notably, weak expression was detectable in the trichomes themselves (Fig. 8J). Expression ceased in trichome support cells at the distal edge of the expanding leaf blade, but continued in the younger leaf tissue (Fig. 8H). Control plants transformed with the empty pBI121 plasmid showed no detectable GUS activity (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Given the interaction of CML42 with KIC (Figs. 6 and 7), a protein involved in the Ca2+-signaling pathways regulating trichome branching (CITATION), and the strong expression of CML42 in trichome support cells (Fig. 8), we investigated the phenotype of transgenic knockout plants lacking CML42. These plants (cml42) were indistinguishable from wild-type plants with respect to all aspects of growth, development, and phenotype examined (data not shown), with the notable exception that cml42 knockout plants displayed abnormal trichome morphology with increased branches (Fig. 9). Whereas wild-type plants predominantly possessed three-branched trichomes (Fig. 10A), cml42 plants had a statistically significant (t test, p < 0.005) increase in trichomes with four or more branches. This phenotype co-segregated with the T-DNA insertion in the CML42 gene, and, using DNA hybridization blots, we confirmed that these knockout plants possess only a single T-DNA insertion (supplemental Fig. S1). Moreover, we genetically “rescued” the wild-type phenotype by expressing wild-type CML42 under its endogenous promoter in cml42 knockout plants (Fig. 10C). These data unequivocally implicate CML42 in the regulation of trichome branching. We also obtained transgenic knockout plants with a T-DNA insertion in KIC from ABRC, confirmed the absence of KIC transcripts in homozygous lines, but did not observe any alteration in their trichome morphology (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments with Arabidopsis thaliana were conducted using Columbia ecotype (Col-0, wild type). Seeds were imbibed for 3 days at 4 °C and subsequently transferred to a growth chamber under 16-h light (150 μEinsteins m−2 s−1)/8-h dark photoperiod at 22 °C. A gene knockout T-DNA insertion line (SALK_041400C) for CML42 was provided by the SALK institute (CITATION) and obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, The Ohio State University. Southern blotting confirmed the presence of a single T-DNA insertion in this transgenic line (supplemental Fig. S1).  The initial cloning, subcloning, and expression of recombinant CML42 in Escherichia coli has been previously described (CITATION). The CML42 coding region was further subcloned using standard laboratory protocols to generate the various plasmid constructs used in this work. Where necessary for directional subcloning strategies, PCR primers were designed to introduce appropriate restriction sites. All plasmid constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. To produce recombinant His6-tagged N-terminal region of CML42 (residues 1–106), primers were designed to amplify the N-terminal-encoding cDNA from the ATG start codon to the middle of the interdomain linker region (1–318 bp) using primers NdeI-CML42F (5′-CATATGGAGAGTAACAACAACGAG-3′) and XhoI-NtermCML42R (5′-GCTCGAGTTCTCCTCCTCCACAAGCTC-3′) and subcloned into the pET21a prokaryotic expression vector (Novagen) in-frame with the His6 tag to generate the plasmid construct NtermCML42-pET21a.  Recombinant full-length CML42 was expressed in E. coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysS (Stratagene), and recombinant protein was purified using Ca2+-dependent phenyl-Sepharose chromatography as previously described (CITATION), with the exception that bacterial cultures were grown at 30 °C for 4–6 h following the addition of isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside to a final concentration of 0.5 mm. The bacterial expression of recombinant NtermCML42 was performed as described above for the full-length CML42 except that harvested cells were resuspended in Binding Buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 25 mm NaCl, 40 mm imidazole), and the soluble extract was not supplemented with CaCl2. Recombinant NtermCML42 was purified using Chelating Sepharose Fast Flow resin (Amersham Biosciences) as per the manufacturer's instructions. Protein samples were then applied to a Hi-Load 16/60 Superdex 75 size-exclusion column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with CaM elution buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mm EGTA) containing 1 mm dithiothreitol and eluted in 1-ml fractions using the same buffer. Fractions containing recombinant NtermCML42 were pooled, concentrated using an Amicon Ultra-15 centrifugal filtration (Millipore) device, flash frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80 °C. Protein samples were exchanged into buffers appropriate for various biophysical analyses by dialysis or via PD-10 Sephadex G-25M desalting columns (Amersham Biosciences). The protein concentrations used for all biophysical analyses were determined using a Bradford reagent (Bio-Rad) assay and known standard concentrations of either CML42 or NtermCML42 as determined by amino acid analysis (Alberta Peptide Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada).  Recombinant CML42 was uniformly 15N-labeled by growing E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS harboring the CML42-pET5a construct in M9 minimal media supplemented with 15NH4Cl (1 g/liter) as the sole nitrogen source (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Andover, MA). Expression was carried out in a manner similar to that described above for the unlabeled CML42 construct, with the exception that, upon induction with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside, the bacterial cultures were supplemented with 10 ml of 15N-Bio-Express-1000 medium (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories) and allowed to grow for an additional 8–10 h. Purification of the uniformly 15N-labeled recombinant CML42 followed the same protocol as described for the unlabeled protein.  Far-UV CD spectra of CML42 were acquired from 260 to 179.5 nm on a rapid scanning monochromator fitted with a CD module (RSM 1000, OLIS, Bogart, GA) at room temperature using a 0.1-mm path length cylindrical quartz cuvette. Spectra were collected on samples containing 54–63 μm CML42 in 5 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.9, 150 mm NaF supplemented with either 5 mm EGTA or 5 mm CaCl2. Samples were manually mixed in situ following every third spectrum collection to counteract apparent photolytic degradation of the proteins. Spectra from twelve scans were averaged and corrected for background by subtracting averaged buffer spectra collected under the same conditions. Molar ellipticity [θ] was calculated according to the formula [θ] = θ × 100/(nlc), where n represents the number of amino acids in the protein, l represents the path length in centimeters, and c represents the concentration in millimolar. Percentage of secondary structure was calculated from the averaged, corrected spectra using CDNN deconvolution software (CITATION).  Isothermal scanning calorimetry (ITC) experiments were performed on a MicroCal VP-ITC microcalorimeter (MicroCal). In each experiment, 5-μl injections of either 400 μm or 800 μm CaCl2 were made to a 1.5-ml sample cell containing 20 μm CML42 or 20 μm NtermCML42 in 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, with or without 5 mm MgCl2. Experiments were conducted at 30 °C, with 58 injections at 180-s intervals. To ensure that the initial samples remained Ca2+-free, all buffers were prepared in acid-washed plastic. Buffer control runs were conducted to obtain a baseline for each experiment. The heat of dilution/mixing was determined in separate buffer sample and ligand-buffer control experiments; these values were subtracted from the experimental runs. Data were analyzed using Origin 5.1 software (MicroCal) to obtain values for stoichiometry (N) and dissociation constants (Kd). The best fitting model for each experiment was selected based on the experimental N value and minimization of the chi-square values by modifying the binding-type input parameters. All ITC experiments were performed in duplicate.  8-Anilino-1-naphthalenesulfonate (ANS) fluorescence spectroscopic studies were performed with 500 μm ANS and 50 μm CML42 in 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 50 mm NaCl. Spectra of the recombinant protein in the presence of 5 mm EGTA or 5 mm CaCl2 were measured at room temperature in a 1.5-ml, 10-mm cuvette on a PerkinElmer Life Sciences LS50B luminescence spectrometer with the following parameters: excitation and emission wavelengths of 380 and 400–600 nm, respectively, and a slit width of 7 nm. A titration experiment was also performed by sequentially adding 2 mm CaCl2, and finally 10 mm EDTA and 10 mm EGTA to an ANS-supplemented apo-CML42 sample. Fluorescence emission readings, in arbitrary intensity units, were taken after vigorous mixing following each addition.  Two-dimensional 1H-15N heteronuclear single-quantum coherence (HSQC) NMR spectra of 120 μm 15N-labeled full-length recombinant CML42 were acquired on a Varian INOVA 600-MHz spectrometer equipped with a pulse-field gradient triple-resonance cryoprobe at 25 °C. Samples comprised 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 25 mm KCl, 90% H2O/10% D2O supplemented with either 5 mm EGTA or 5 mm CaCl2. Spectra were also collected for incremental additions of CaCl2 to full-length apo-CML42 to saturating conditions, as determined by the cessation of change in the resonances. The experiments used the enhanced sensitivity pulsed-field gradient approach (CITATION) and comprised a 1024 × 128 real data matrix, which was zero-filled once in each dimension. The proton chemical shifts were referenced to 0.0 ppm by use of the trimethylsilyl resonance of the 2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane 5-sulfonate signal in the one-dimensional spectrum. Spectra were processed and analyzed by use of NMRPipe (CITATION) and NMRview (CITATION), respectively.  The Matchmaker yeast two-hybrid system (Clontech, Mountain View, CA) was used in this study. The full CML42 coding sequence was excised from the NdeI and BamHI sites of the CML42:pET5a construct (CITATION) and subcloned into the NdeI and BamHI sites of pGBKT7 bait expression vector in-frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (CML42-pGBKT7). The same strategy was used to subclone CML42 into the NdeI and BamHI sites of the “prey” vector (pGADT7) in-frame with the GAL4 activation domain. Competent yeast (strain AH109) cells harboring CML42- pGBKT7 were transformed with a λ-ACT two-hybrid cDNA library (CD4–22, Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Columbus OH) according to the Clontech Matchmaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 User Manual. Transformed cells were screened with high stringency by plating on adenine/tryptophan/leucine/histidine selective dropout minimal medium (SD-LWAH, Clontech) plates. Plates were incubated at 30 °C for a total of 2 weeks to increase the likelihood of detecting weak interactions. Approximately 5 × 105 colonies were screened. Putative positive colonies were replated on SD-LWAH plates four consecutive times to purge plasmids allowing nonspecific reporter activation, and to ensure maintenance of the interaction. Putative interactors were further tested for activation of the MEL1 reporter using an X-galactosidase overlay assay as described in the Clontech Matchmaker manual. Strong interactors exhibited a blue colorimetric reaction within 1–2 h; weaker interactors took up to 10 h to develop. Prey plasmids, representing putative CML42 effectors, were isolated from yeast cultures, and cDNA inserts were sequenced (Genome Quebec Sequencing Platform, Montreal QC) for identification. To further confirm the interactions of the CML42 putative interactor, kinesin-like CaM-binding protein (KCBP)-interacting Ca2+-binding protein (KIC), the KIC cDNA was amplified by PCR using the forward and reverse primers NdeI-KICF (5′-CATATGGAACCAACCGAGAAATCTATG-3′) and SalI-KICR (5′-GTCGACAGGCATAGAAGAGAGATTGTG-3′), respectively, and subcloned into the NdeI and SalI sites of the bait vector (pGBKT7) and tested for the ability to interact with CML42 expressed from the prey vector (pGADT7). A positive control for the yeast two-hybrid assays (FEM-2 and FEM-3) was kindly provided by Dr. Ian Chin-Sang (CITATION).  The full-length KIC coding sequence (556 bp) was amplified by PCR using forward and reverse primers SalI-KICF (5′-GTCGACATGGAACCAACCGAGAAATC-3′) and NotI-KICR (5′-GCGGCCGCTCAAGGCATAGAAGAGAGATTG-3′), respectively, and subcloned into pGEX-4T-3 (Amersham Biosciences) to create an N-terminal GST-tagged KIC fusion protein. This plasmid construct (KIC-pGEX-4T-3) was used for the expression of GST-KIC in E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS cells as described above for recombinant CML42 and purified by glutathione-affinity chromatography as per manufacturer's instructions (Amersham Biosciences). Purity was assessed by SDS-PAGE following by protein staining.  A glutathione (GSH) Sepharose co-precipitation assay, followed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting, was performed to test for an interaction between CML42 and the GST-fused KIC in vitro. Approximately 250 ng of GST-fused KIC was combined with an equimolar quantity of CML42 in a total volume of 200 μl of Interaction Buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1.0 mm CaCl2). Similarly, equimolar amounts of CML42 and purified GST were tested as a negative control. The mixtures were added to 100 μl of GSH-agarose beads (Sigma-Aldrich) pre-equilibrated with Interaction Buffer, and incubated with gentle shaking for 1 h at room temperature. The samples were transferred to empty columns (Bio-Rad) and washed extensively (50 column volumes) with Interaction Buffer. The samples were then returned to microcentrifuge tubes, and the bound proteins were eluted in three 50-μl fractions with GST Elution Buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 10 mm reduced GSH). Aliquots of each assay were subjected to SDS-PAGE followed by Western blot analysis using either anti-GST antiserum or anti-CML42/CML43 antiserum and colorimetric detection with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate/nitro blue tetrazolium. Assays were also performed in the presence of 1 mm EGTA to test the Ca2+ dependence of the interaction.  CML β-glucuronidase (GUS)-reporter analysis was conducted using transgenic Arabidopsis (Col-0, wild type) plants. The CML42 GUS-reporter construct (CML42::GUS) comprised 0.8 kb (−0.8 kb to 0) of 5′ upstream genomic DNA that was amplified by PCR using the forward and reverse primers HindIII-CML42:pBI121F (5′-TGAAGCTTTCTGGTGTTAGATAGATTG-3′) and XbaI-CML42:pBI121R (5′-CGTCTAGATGTTATCTTGTGTTCTTCTTC-3′), respectively, and subcloned into the HindIII and XbaI sites of the binary plasmid pBI121 (Clontech). This promoter region comprised the full intergenic region between the CML42 start codon and the nearest 5′ upstream gene. Wild-type Arabidopsis plants were transformed via the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous T4 generation plants were selected for transgene expression as previously described (CITATION). In situ GUS staining was performed as described (CITATION). Whole plants, seedlings, or specific plant tissue samples were harvested throughout all stages of development. Samples were transferred to 15-ml Falcon tubes or 1.5-ml microcentrifuge tubes containing 90% acetone and incubated at 4 °C for 30 min, followed by extensive washing with water. GUS staining solution (100 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 2 mm potassium ferricyanide, 2 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 1 mg/ml 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc, Bioshop Canada Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada) was applied, and samples were stained overnight in the dark at 37 °C. Samples were washed with several changes of 70% ethanol, and stored in 70% ethanol to remove remaining plant pigments. Samples were collected and assessed for a minimum of five independent CML::GUS transgenic lines. Sample images were captured with a digital camera connected to a Zeiss DiscoveryV12 (Carl Zeiss Inc.) stereoscope.  Arabidopsis plants (wild-type or cml42 knockouts) were grown as described above, and trichomes were isolated from leaves and stained as described (CITATION). For counting trichome branch numbers, samples were mounted on slides and visualized using a Zeiss DiscoveryV12 stereoscope. All cryogenic scanning electron microscopy was performed using a JEOL 6400 scanning electron microscope (JEOL Ltd.) outfitted with an Oxford CT 1500C cryotransfer system and cold stage (Oxford Instruments). Images were captured using a Robinson backscattered electron detector (SPI Inc.) at an accelerating voltage of 6 kV. To examine the CML42 transcript level in cml42 knockout (or wild-type) plants, reverse transcription PCR was performed as described (CITATION) using CML42-specific forward (CML42rtF, 5′-ATGGAGAGTAACAACAACGAG-3′) and reverse (CML42rtR, 5′-GAATCAAGAAGAAGGGATGAC-3′) primers. Actin was used as a control for reverse transcription-PCR analysis and to test for genomic contamination in samples as described (CITATION).  Total genomic DNA was extracted from wild-type Arabidopsis tissues using the Qiagen Plant DNeasy kit. The full-length CML42 intronless region (576 bp), as well as the genomic (promoter) region upstream of the CML42 ATG translation start site to the predicted nearest-neighbor gene (−894 bp), was amplified by PCR using the pMDCpromoterF primer (5′-TACCTTGTAAAGCTTTATTGGTTTC-3′) and the CML42rtR primer. The 1470-bp PCR product was subsequently cloned into the pMDC99 complementation binary vector via Gateway® LR recombination reaction. The transcription of the transgene CML42 is thus driven by its endogenous promoter in the pMDC99 vector. The pMDC99:CML42 construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain LBA4404) and then into Arabidopsis cml42 knockout mutants as described above. Transformants were selected by growth on Murashige and Skoog media (Sigma-Aldrich) plates supplemented with 50 μg/ml hygromycin, and resistant seedlings were transferred to soil for self-pollination and propagation to homozygosity. Total RNA was extracted, and first-strand cDNA was obtained for the CML42-transformed cml42 “rescued” plants as described above. Reverse transcription-PCR, using primers flanking CML42 (CML42rtF and CML42rtR), was performed on cDNA templates to ensure the presence of the CML42 transcript in the CML42-transformed cml42 knockout plants. Genomic DNA was also extracted from these transgenic plants, and PCR was performed using T-DNA-specific forward (SALK Lbc1, 5′-GGACTCTTGTTCCAACATGG-3′) and reverse (CML42rtR) primers to confirm the presence of the T-DNA insert. 
