!~ABS~! The plant viral re‐initiation factor transactivator viroplasmin (TAV) activates translation of polycistronic mRNA by a re‐initiation mechanism involving translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) and the 60S ribosomal subunit (60S). QJ;Here, we report a new plant factor—re‐initiation supporting protein (RISP)—that enhances TAV function in re‐initiation. RISP interacts physically with TAV in vitro and in vivo. Mutants defective in interaction are less active, or inactive, in transactivation and viral amplification. RISP alone can serve as a scaffold protein, which is able to interact with eIF3 subunits a/c and 60S, apparently through the C‐terminus of ribosomal protein L24. RISP pre‐bound to eIF3 binds 40S, suggesting that RISP enters the translational machinery at the 43S formation step. RISP, TAV and 60S co‐localize in epidermal cells of infected plants, and eIF3–TAV–RISP–L24 complex formation can be shown in vitro. These results suggest that RISP and TAV bridge interactions between eIF3‐bound 40S and L24 of 60S after translation termination to ensure 60S recruitment during repetitive initiation events on polycistronic mRNA; RISP can thus be considered as a new component of the cell translation machinery.
!~RES~! The central domain of TAV has been implicated in re‐initiation as an essential minimal transactivation domain (MAV) (CITATION). To identify factors that interact directly with MAV, we carried out a yeast two‐hybrid screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA library using an amino terminal portion of TAV (NTAV) (FIG-REF), which led to the identification of a protein (Mr=45 kDa; accession number NM_125513.1 encoded by rispa) that we call RISP. (A second gene, rispb (accession number NP_196406), was later found in plant genome, which encodes a protein with a high degree of similarity to RISP; for an alignment see Supplementary Figure 1S). RISP was found to be expressed in Arabidopsis and turnip plants, and had mobility in SDS–PAGE corresponding to its predicted size of 45 kDa and similar to that of recombinant RISP purified from Escherichia coli (FIG-REF). Immunofluorescence analysis of the sub‐cellular localization of RISP in leaves of Brassica rapa plants using anti‐RISP antibodies suggested a cytoplasmic distribution (FIG-REF, left panels). We screened the yeast, human and other mammalian genomes for RISP‐like proteins, but no orthologs have yet been found. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We mapped TAV and RISP interactions using the yeast two‐hybrid assay (FIG-REF). RISP can be divided tentatively into four parts, each characterized by a coiled‐coil structure predicted with high probability by computer analysis (helices H1–H4; Supplementary Figure S1). TAV and RISP truncation and deletion mutants were tested to delineate regions important for binding (FIG-REF). The N‐terminal part of TAV (aa 1–242) interacted as strongly with RISP as complete TAV, whereas the C‐terminal part (aa 243–520) was inactive. More than half of the binding activity was retained in the isolated MAV region (aa 116–242) or a sub‐fragment thereof (aa 167–227). An internal deletion of TAV (aa 167–200) that had previously been shown to abolish transactivation activity (CITATION) also diminished RISP binding (FIG-REF), suggesting that RISP could support TAV in its re‐initiation function. According to secondary structure predictions (CITATION), the RISP binding site (aa 167–227) consists of the C‐terminal half of the putative dsRNA binding domain (aa 167–182), followed by an unstructured region starting with Ala183. Deletion of three amino acids (183AlaAspAla; ΔADA) within this unstructured region virtually abolished the interaction of TAV with RISP (FIG-REF). Mapping of regions of RISP participating in interaction with TAV showed that a segment spanning residues 205–255 within the C‐terminal part (AD—RISP (205–255)) interacted with TAV as strongly as full‐length RISP (FIG-REF). This domain harbours the putative coiled‐coil domain H3, which might mediate this interaction. The interaction between RISP and TAV was confirmed in a GST‐pull down assay using GST–TAV and RISP (FIG-REF). RISP was present in the bound fraction after incubation with GST–TAV, but in the unbound fraction after incubation with GST alone. A purified control protein, conalbumin (CA), remained in the unbound fraction with GST–TAV, confirming the specificity of the TAV–RISP interaction (FIG-REF). To show that the interaction of TAV with RISP is not mediated by RNA, the mixture of interacting partners was treated with an RNase cocktail (FIG-REF). Again RISP was found in the bound fraction when incubated with GST–TAV. This result suggests that RNA does not mediate the TAV–RISP interaction. We also overexpressed TAV in fusion with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP–TAV) and RISP with red fluorescent protein (RFP–RISP; FIG-REF) in cultured BY‐2 tobacco cells. EGFP–TAV formed cytoplasmic aggregates of different sizes and shapes (FIG-REF) as described earlier (CITATION), consistent with its role as a major component of viral inclusion bodies, whereas EGFP alone was diffused between the nucleus and the cytoplasm (FIG-REF). RFP–RISP appeared as small dots (FIG-REF). Upon transient co‐expression of both fluorescent fusions, RFP–RISP formed structures that exactly followed the shape and size of EGFP–TAV aggregates (FIG-REF), indicating that the RFP–RISP fusion protein retained its ability to interact with EGFP–TAV in the cytoplasm of BY‐2 cells. However, no co‐localization was observed between EGFP–TAVΔ167–219 and RFP–RISP (FIG-REF), in good agreement with our observation that the deleted region in TAV contains a binding site for RISP. In contrast, deletion of the N‐terminal MAV domain (aa 134–167) of TAV did not perturb co‐localization (FIG-REF). The presence of TAV on polysomes (CITATION) and its ability to bind RISP led us to investigate whether RISP associates with polysomes in planta. Polysomes from healthy or CaMV‐infected plants were fractionated on sucrose gradients, and TAV and RISP were analyzed by western blots using anti‐TAV and anti‐RISP antisera (FIG-REF). In extracts from infected plants, a significant proportion of TAV and RISP accumulated at the position of polysomes, whereas in extracts from healthy plants, RISP was detected at the top of the gradient (FIG-REF). In contrast, there was no significant shift of TAV and RISP to polysome‐containing fractions after EDTA treatment of polysomes isolated from infected plants (FIG-REF). These results indicate the relatively stable association of RISP with polysomes isolated from infected plants, whereas RISP is removed from polysomes from healthy plants and/or from ribosomal species during sedimentation through sucrose (FIG-REF). Western blot analysis of extracts isolated from healthy and CaMV‐infected turnip plants did not show significant variations in endogenous RISP levels (FIG-REF). Thus, RISP is recruited or stabilized in polysomes in CaMV‐infected cells, and may have a role in TAV‐mediated transactivation. We next analyzed whether RISP alone can interact with ribosomes, especially ribosomal subunits. Western blot analysis of purified, salt‐washed wheat germ mono‐ribosomes (80S), 60S and 40S ribosomal subunits showed that endogenous RISP associated with washed 80S and 60S subunits, but not 40S subunits (FIG-REF). To investigate whether ribosomes can be loaded with additional molecules of RISP, recombinant RISP prepared in E. coli was incubated with isolated ribosomes or 60S or 40S subunits at a molar ratio of about 1:1, and the mixtures were fractionated on sucrose gradients. The amount of RISP co‐sedimenting with 60S increased; however, some RISP did not co‐sediment with 80S or 40S, but was detected in the pellet and at the top of the sucrose gradient (FIG-REF). We speculate that, in the absence of 60S, RISP may interact with some heavy cytoskeleton‐like fractions that co‐purify with 40S and especially 80S ribosomes, which are thus pelleted together during ribosome isolation steps. We conclude that mono‐ribosomes and 60S ribosomal subunits isolated from wheat germ contain endogenous RISP, and that 60S subunits but not complete ribosomes can bind to additional RISPs, suggesting that the presence of the 40S subunit may preclude loading of RISP onto the 60S subunit of the complete ribosome. Thus, RISP co‐sediments with 80S monosomes, and may interact with the surface of the 60S subunit that makes a contact with 40S. A GST pull‐down analysis confirmed the direct physical interaction between RISP and 60S (Supplementary Figure S2A). Likewise, we found that RISP co‐precipitated with the 60S subunit fraction (see FIG-REF), confirming that RISP associates with 60S in vivo. [[FIGURE]] In vivo immunofluorescence analysis showed that endogenous RISP is present mainly in the cytoplasm of BY‐2 cells as large (0.5–1 μm) and small granules (anti‐RISP; FIG-REF, right panels), whereas prominent anti‐60S labelling was shown in the cytoplasm as numerous granules of different size (FIG-REF, anti‐60S). Superimposition of these images (FIG-REF, merge) showed that around 90% of RISP particles co‐localized with a sub‐population of 60S ribosomal subunits, as confirmed by high values of Pearson's correlation coefficient, Rr=0.577 (see Materials and methods section). Previously, we showed that TAV binds to the N‐terminus of the 60S ribosomal protein L24 (CITATION), which corresponds to the full‐length protein in archaebacteria (CITATION). RISP interacting with 60S‐bound TAV could be in close spatial vicinity to L24, and thus interact with it. GST pull‐down analysis confirmed the interaction between RISP and either full‐length L24 (FIG-REF, upper panel) or its C‐terminus (GST–CL24; aa 58–176) (FIG-REF, bottom panel), whereas there was no interaction of RISP with GST alone, and no interaction of the control protein CA with GST–L24 (FIG-REF). Interactions of L24 with RISP were not affected by treatment of the mixture of interacting partners with an RNase cocktail, suggesting that the RNA does not mediate these interactions (FIG-REF, upper panel). We found no interaction with ribosomal proteins L18 or L13, which were also implicated in TAV binding using GST pull‐down assay (data not shown). Yeast two‐hybrid analysis confirmed a specific interaction between BD–L24 and AD–RISP and showed the conserved H4 domain of RISP to be the L24‐binding site (FIG-REF). Thus, the C‐terminal end of RISP may contact the 60S ribosomal subunit directly. Owing to its interaction with TAV, we hypothesized that RISP might interact with translation initiation factor eIF3 implicated in TAV binding. Interaction of RISP with eIF3 was first indicated by GST pull‐down assays (see FIG-REF): GST–RISP forms a complex with purified wheat germ eIF3 (FIG-REF, lane 7), but does not show significant binding to 40S‐bound eIF3 (FIG-REF, cf lanes 11 and 12). This result provided the clue that subunits of eIF3 contacting the 40S ribosome might be involved in RISP binding. Three subunits of eIF3 implicated in 40S binding in yeast (a, b and c) (CITATION; CITATION) were tested for their ability to interact with RISP in the yeast two‐hybrid system (FIG-REF). We used Arabidopsis thaliana eIF3 subunit 3aΔ—a fragment spanning the first 646 amino acid residues of 3a (total length 988 aa) that can still participate in 40S binding in yeast (CITATION)—and full‐length subunits b and c (FIG-REF); subunits a and c were able to interact with RISP in yeast (FIG-REF). The RISP fragment containing helix 2 (H2) mediates the interaction with either eIF3aΔ or eIF3c (FIG-REF). These findings were confirmed by a GST‐pull down assay (FIG-REF). Thus, RISP interaction with eIF3 can be mediated by at least two subunits. These data strongly suggest the formation of a complex between RISP and eIF3, and prompted us to analyze binding of this complex to 40S. Surprisingly, we found that a preformed RISP–eIF3 complex (FIG-REF, lane 13) can interact with 40S ribosomal subunits provided at a 2‐fold molar excess (FIG-REF, lane 15). Thus, the RISP–eIF3 complex could enter the 43S PIC via its interaction with 40S. To confirm this hypothesis in vivo, three key components of the 43S‐PIC—eIF3, eIF2 and 40S—were pelleted using corresponding antibodies (FIG-REF). Consistently, endogenous RISP, but not with the control endogenous plant protein, katanine co‐immunoprecipitated with endogenous eIF3 (eIF3c was used as a marker), eIF2 (marker: eIF2α) and 40S (marker: RP S6) in soluble cell extracts (FIG-REF), thus suggesting that RISP is part of the 43S‐PIC in plants. [[FIGURE]] Our present results showing complex formation between 60S and RISP, together with earlier results demonstrating TAV binding to 60S in vitro (CITATION), prompted us to investigate whether RISP and TAV could associate with the 60S subunits in planta. To test for association between TAV, RISP and 60S, we immunoprecipitated 60S from extracts prepared from leaves of mock‐ and CaMV‐inoculated turnip plants using anti‐P0/P1/P2 antibodies (FIG-REF). Endogenous RISP and 40S (marker: RP S6) co‐immunoprecipitated with 60S subunits in extracts prepared from healthy plants; and RISP, 40S and TAV proteins associated with 60S in CaMV‐infected plants (FIG-REF), suggesting association between RISP and 60S, or TAV, RISP and 60S, with or without 40S. Western blot analysis of purified 60S ribosomal subunits pre‐incubated with recombinant TAV and/or RISP after sucrose‐gradient centrifugation showed that RISP and TAV co‐sediment with 60S subunits (Supplementary Figure S2B), again suggesting that the TAV–RISP complex can be loaded on 60S. To address the biological relevance of the RISP–TAV–60S complex in planta, we carried out immunofluorescence analysis of epidermal cells in leaves of CaMV‐infected Brassica rapa plants. Cells infected with CaMV contain typical large and small virus‐induced inclusion bodies, of which TAV is the main component (see CITATION). Prominent anti‐60S labelling was revealed in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of infected cells, whereas TAV aggregates were distributed in the cytoplasm and around the nucleus (FIG-REF). Co‐localization between 60S and TAV was detected mainly within large TAV viroplasms, as round‐shaped structures appearing during viral infection (FIG-REF). To locate RISP in CaMV‐infected epidermal cells in relation to 60S ribosomal subunits, we used another pair of antibodies (anti‐RISP and anti‐60S ribosomal proteins P0–P1–P2; FIG-REF). Again 60S subunits were seen as large round‐shaped structures (enlarged on the bottom panel in FIG-REF). Strong RISP labelling co‐localized with these large viroplasms, particularly within the round‐shaped 60S structures (arrow in FIG-REF). We did not detect these structures in the epidermal cells of healthy plants (FIG-REF). These data support the in vivo formation of large complexes (possibly large polysomes) containing RISP, TAV and ribosomes in CaMV‐infected plants, which could represent a pool of re‐initiation‐competent ribosomes loaded with RISP and TAV. Furthermore, our earlier experiments had shown that TAV interacts with the N‐terminal domain of L24 (CITATION), whereas we now know that RISP interacts with its C‐terminal part (FIG-REF). Thus, we wished to confirm that L24 could serve as a scaffold for RISP and TAV, and mediate their simultaneous interaction with 60S. To test whether L24 can interact with both RISP and TAV in vitro, a GST–L24–RISP complex was reconstituted by incubating GST–L24 with a fivefold excess of RISP (FIG-REF, lane 8). Unbound RISP was then removed and the complex was further incubated with a roughly equimolar amount of TAV. The data obtained (FIG-REF) suggest that RISP does not compete with TAV for L24 binding, and that RISP, L24 and TAV form a ternary complex. Moreover, this ternary complex can expand to a quaternary complex by strongly binding eIF3 (eIF3 was found only in GST–L24‐bound fraction; FIG-REF, lane 13). As predicted, L24–RISP also binds eIF3, but less strongly (FIG-REF, lane 9). Indeed, eIF3 binds GST–L24 strongly in the presence of RISP (Supplementary Figure S3). Thus, L24 mediates binding between TAV and RISP likely on the 60S ribosomal subunit, and the TAV–RISP complex may bridge interactions between 60S and eIF3. We next tested the effect of RISP on TAV transactivation capacity using transient expression of mono‐ and bi‐cistronic reporter constructs in plant protoplasts. pmonoCAT contains a single chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) ORF, whereas pbiGUS contains two consecutive ORFs: CaMV ORF VII and β‐glucuronidase (GUS) (FIG-REF (CITATION). In Nicotiana plumbaginifolia protoplasts, efficient translation of the GUS‐ORF requires the presence of TAV, whereas the expression of CAT acts as a control for transfection/translation efficiency. Although RISP alone could not replace TAV (as a control we used a plasmid containing a GST‐ORF), when overexpressed above its endogenous level in the presence of TAV, it strongly enhanced GUS‐ORF translation (FIG-REF). The RISP deletion mutant Δ205–255, lacking the TAV‐interaction domain, was unable to increase the level of TAV‐mediated transactivation (FIG-REF). No significant stimulation effect was observed when TAV was co‐transfected together with the RISPΔH2 or ΔH4 deletion mutants lacking the eIF3‐ or L24‐binding domain, respectively (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Thus, RISP lacking the TAV‐binding domain lost its capacity to support TAV‐mediated transactivation. To confirm the role of RISP in transactivation we tested the TAV three amino acid deletion mutant (ΔADA) that does not interact with RISP. This mutant was not active in transactivation (FIG-REF), suggesting a direct involvement of TAV in sequestration of RISP. Next, we investigated whether ΔADA affects viral fitness and the re‐initiation capacity of TAV in planta. CaMV replication can be tested in single cells (in plant protoplasts) and requires TAV‐activated polycistronic translation. We found that the TAVΔADA mutant supported CaMV replication in plant protoplasts only if GAG and POL were provided in trans, strongly suggesting that deletion of these three amino acids specifically affected TAV transactivation function (see FIG-REF). (Loss of transactivation function can be complemented by co‐expressing CaMV capsid protein (GAG) and polyprotein (protease‐reverse transcriptase/RNAseH; POL) from separate mono‐cistronic plasmids (CITATION)). To study the importance of RISP for viral replication, we identified an Arabidopsis T‐DNA insertion mutant for RISP, with a T‐DNA insertion within the rispa (134C07; see Supplementary Figure S4A); this mutant has no particular phenotype (Supplementary Figure S4B). RT–PCR analysis failed to detect transcripts originating from rispa in the mutant, but not in wild‐type Col0 Arabidopsis plants, suggesting rispa disruption. Levels of transcripts from rispb or a polyubiquitin gene in the mutant were not affected significantly (Supplementary Figure S4C). Western blot analysis with polyclonal antibodies against recombinant RISP indicated a roughly threefold decrease in the level of a 45 kDa protein—the expected size of RISP—in mutant plants as compared with wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). We speculate that the observed protein in the mutant may correspond to a protein expressed from rispb. To determine whether rispa gene disruption has any impact on CaMV infection, we mechanically inoculated wild‐type and RISPΔ Arabidopsis plants with CaMV and compared virus replication kinetics in the inoculated plants by monitoring accumulation of two viral proteins: coat protein (CP) and TAV (FIG-REF). Mutant plants eventually showed development of symptoms identical to those caused by CaMV in wild‐type plants. However, symptom appearance and viral protein accumulation was delayed. In wild‐type plants, TAV and CP accumulation was first observed at 13 days after inoculation (dpi), but at 16 dpi in mutant plants (FIG-REF). On the basis of accumulated data, we hypothesize that this delay is due to defects in virus‐mediated transactivation. The effect of rispa gene disruption on transactivation was studied more directly using Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts prepared from wild‐type and mutant plants (CITATION). Protoplasts were transformed with the same plasmid constructions used for N. plumbaginifolia protoplasts, but using pmonoGFP (encoding GFP; FIG-REF, left panel), as a mono‐cistronic reporter construct. We found that mesophyll protoplasts prepared from mutant plants are at least threefold less efficient in TAV‐mediated re‐initiation of the downstream GUS‐ORF compared with protoplasts prepared from wild‐type plants, whereas GFP expression from the 5′‐proximal ORF was equally as efficient in both types of protoplast. Unfortunately, knockdown of both rispa and rispb genes using an amiRNA approach (CITATION) proved lethal (data not shown).
!~MM~! The partial RISP cDNA was isolated from an Arabidopsis yeast two‐hybrid library (41–389 aa; Clontech). The 5′‐part of its coding region was amplified from an Arabidopsis cDNA library using a 5′‐RACE kit (NM_125513.1; Invitrogen; Supplementary Figure S1). Description of plasmids and their construction, and details of biochemical methods can be found in the Supplementary data. Arabidopsis wild‐type, T‐DNA mutant (134C07) plants (Col0 background) were raised from seeds under standard conditions. At 4–5 weeks post‐germination, seedlings were inoculated mechanically with CaMV Cabb‐JI. Wheat germ eIF3 was kindly provided by Professor K Browning (University of Texas at Austin, USA). Conalbumin was obtained from a GE Healthcare Gel Filtration calibration kit. GST‐fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli BL21 DE3 RIL (Stratagene). GST was removed by on‐column cleavage with PreScission protease (GE Healthcare). 80S ribosomes, 60S and 40S subunits were isolated from wheat germ according to CITATION and CITATION. Polysome isolation and density centrifugation was carried out as described by CITATION (see Supplementary data). Ribosomal complexes were prepared as described in the Supplementary data. The mating strategy for two‐hybrid screening and two‐hybrid analysis has been described previously (CITATION). The two‐hybrid interaction analysis carried out in AH109 is described in the Supplementary data. Glutathione‐S‐transferase pull‐down assays were carried out as described by CITATION). Co‐immunoprecipitation experiments were done, as described, with modifications (CITATION; see Supplementary data). Rabbit polyclonal anti‐TAV antibodies were raised against recombinant 6His‐TAV. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies against RISP, L13, eIF3c and S6 were raised against the full‐length Arabidopsis recombinant proteins produced in E. coli. Human anti‐ribosomal P antigen antibodies to 60S ribosomal proteins P0–P1–P2 were purchased from Immunovision. Rabbit polyclonal anti‐eIF2α and anti‐eIF3c antibodies were a kind gift from Professor K Browning. Rabbit polyclonal anti‐katanine antibodies were a kind gift from Marylin Vantard (CEA Grenoble, France). Leaf protoplasts derived from N. plumbaginifolia were prepared and samples of 6 × 105 protoplasts were used for polyethylene glycol‐mediated transfection as described by CITATION). The GUS‐expressing di‐cistronic reporter plasmid (pbiGUS; 2.5 μg) was always co‐transfected with a CAT‐expressing plasmid (pmonoCAT; 2 μg). For transactivation, 1 μg pTAV (or pTAVΔADA) or 5–10 μg pRISP (or pGST) was added as indicated. TAV, TAVΔADA, RISP and RISP deletion mutants were well expressed in N. plumbaginifolia protoplasts, as controlled by western blotting (data not shown). CAT and GUS activities were determined as described (CITATION). The values given are the means from more than three independent experiments. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from 3‐ to 4‐week‐old plantlets (Col‐0 and 134C07) and transfected by the method of CITATION. For transactivation, 10 μg pbiGUS, 10 μg pmonoGFP and either 10 μg pTAV (or 10 μg empty vector p35S) were transfected. pmonoGFP expression was monitored by western blot with anti‐GFP antibodies kindly provided by D Gilmer (IBMP, Strasbourg). Principals and details of the experiments were described in CITATION. Turnip protoplasts were transfected with the following plasmids in the indicated combinations pE4Pin (viral clone with PCR reporter, 10 μg); pAA TAV, Wild‐type (WT) or three‐aa deletion mutants, ΔADA, 4 μg; pGW GAG (mono‐cistronic CaMV GAG), 4 μg; and pGW POL (mono‐cistronic CaMV POL), 2 μg. The total amount of plasmid was adjusted to 20 μg with pBluescript. At 3 days post‐transfection, protoplasts were harvested and low molecular weight DNA was extracted. Replication of CaMV DNA was assayed by reporter‐targeted PCR using PSS and LAS primers through 25 reaction cycles. Endogenous RISP, 60S and TAV were localized in epidermal cells of infected turnip plants using appropriate primary antibodies, which were visualized by Alexa Fluor 568‐ or 488‐conjugated anti‐human or anti‐rabbit secondary antibodies (Invitrogen). BY2 cells were harvested and attached to poly‐l‐lysine‐coated coverslips, fixed with a mixture of 1% glutaraldehyde and 1.5% paraformaldehyde and immunolabelled using combinations of appropriate primary antibodies (see Supplementary data). Nuclei were stained with 1 μg/ml 4,6′‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindole (DAPI) solution. Samples were analyzed with a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope (Jena, Germany). The quantitative colocalization analyses were performed using the NIH ImageJ software with the Colocalization Finder plugin, available at http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/plugins/. This software was used to determine the Rr, which describes the extent of overlap between image pairs. It is a value between −1 and +1, with −1 being no overlap and +1 being perfect overlap of two images. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
