!~ABS~! Ions serve as essential nutrients in higher plants and can also act as signaling molecules. Little is known about how plants sense changes in soil nutrient concentrations. Previous studies showed that T101-phosphorylated CHL1 is a high-affinity nitrate transporter, whereas T101-dephosphorylated CHL1 is a low-affinity transporter. In this study, analysis of an uptake- and sensing-decoupled mutant showed that the nitrate transporter CHL1 functions as a nitrate sensor. Primary nitrate responses in CHL1T101D and CHLT101A transgenic plants showed that phosphorylated and dephosphorylated CHL1 lead to a low- and high-level response, respectively. In vitro and in vivo studies showed that, in response to low nitrate concentrations, protein kinase CIPK23 can phosphorylate T101 of CHL1 to maintain a low-level primary response. Thus, CHL1 uses dual-affinity binding and a phosphorylation switch to sense a wide range of nitrate concentrations in the soil, thereby functioning as an ion sensor in higher plants. For a video summary of this article, see the PaperFlick file with the CITATION available online.
!~RES~! Recent studies have suggested that CHL1 participates in the nitrate sensing signaling pathway (CITATION). To determine whether CHL1 is involved in the primary nitrate response, changes in the expression of the primary nitrate response gene AtNRT2.1 were examined in wild-type and chl1-5 mutant plants. Consistent with our previous study (CITATION), time course analysis of the wild-type during exposure to nitrate for 2 hr showed that, for all nitrate concentrations tested, expression of this primary nitrate response gene peaked at 30 min. AtNRT2.1 mRNA levels in the wild-type and chl1-5 mutant after exposure to various concentrations of nitrate for 30 min were then measured by quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). As shown in CITATIONA, and consistent with our previous studies, increased expression of AtNRT2.1 was seen in wild-type plants, which displayed a biphasic pattern with a KM of 24 ± 8 μM for the high-affinity phase and a KM of 764 ± 175 μM for the low-affinity phase ( CITATION and the double reciprocal plots in CITATIONA, available online). However, in the chl1-5 mutant, only basal expression of AtNRT2.1 was seen in both the high-affinity and low-affinity nitrate concentration range, the level of expression being similar to that of AtNRT2.1 in the wild-type treated with potassium chloride (as a control for nitrate). These data show that CHL1 is required for the primary nitrate response. Furthermore, like nitrate uptake, the primary response also displayed a two-phase pattern, suggesting that the nitrate sensing system can sense not only the presence or absence of nitrate but also the concentration of nitrate. The mutant chl1-5 is a deletion mutant (CITATION) in which no CHL1 protein or transcript is expressed and both nitrate uptake and the primary nitrate response are defective. The primary nitrate response defect in the chl1-5 mutant could be due to either reduced nitrate uptake into the plant or direct involvement of CHL1 as a nitrate sensor. To determine whether the sensor function of CHL1 could be decoupled from its uptake function, the primary nitrate responses of additional CHL1 mutants were examined. One of these mutants, chl1-9, generated by EMS mutagenesis and isolated by chlorate selection (CITATION), was found to have normal levels of CHL1 mRNA and protein (CITATION) (CITATIONB). Sequence analysis showed that a point mutation in chl1-9 resulted in Leu replacing Pro492 in the loop region between the 10th and 11th transmembrane domains (CITATIONC). Pro492 is conserved in 50 of the 53 Arabidopsis NTR1 (PTR) transporters. A nitrate uptake defect of chl1-9, previously demonstrated by HPLC analysis (CITATION), was confirmed using a short-term 15N-labeling approach, chl1-9 being shown to be defective in both high- and low-affinity nitrate uptake (CITATIOND). Nitrate uptake by chl1-9 was lower than in the wild-type, but similar to that in the deletion mutant chl1-5 in both the high-affinity and low-affinity range. Interestingly, despite the nitrate uptake defect, chl1-9 still showed a typical biphasic primary nitrate response and KM values in both affinity ranges (CITATIONE, CITATION, CITATIONB and S1C, and CITATION). Consistent with this, when the chl1-9 genomic fragment was introduced into chl1-5, the signaling defect but not the uptake defect was rescued (CITATION). These data show that transporter activity is not required for the sensing function of CHL1 and that CHL1 functions directly as a nitrate sensor (transceptor). The two modes of action of CHL1 in nitrate transport are switched by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of Thr101, which lies between the second and third transmembrane domains (CITATIONC) (CITATION). To determine whether this phosphorylation regulatory mechanism is also involved in the primary nitrate response, transgenic plants expressing T101D or T101A, mimicking, respectively, phosphorylated or dephosphorylated CHL1, were generated. CHL1 genomic DNA containing the T101D or T101A mutation was placed under the control of its own promoter and introduced into the chl1-5 deletion mutant. In contrast to the primary nitrate response in the wild-type, the response in transgenic chl1-5 plants expressing T101D (CHL1 promoter::CHL1T101D) was monophasic, showing that T101D could recover the high-affinity, but not the low-affinity, primary nitrate response ( CITATIONA and CITATIONA). The KM and Vmax values for the high-affinity phase of the primary nitrate response in the wild-type plants (24 ± 8 μM and 60 ± 8%) and CHL1T101D plants (30 ± 9 μM and 58 ± 2%) were similar (CITATION). In contrast, expression of CHL1 promoter::CHL1T101A in chl1-5 mutants resulted in an increased primary nitrate response with a high-affinity KM of 51 ± 14 μM, similar to that in the wild-type, but with a high-affinity phase Vmax twice that of the wild-type and similar to the wild-type low-affinity V max (CITATIONB, CITATION, and CITATIONB). When exposed to high concentrations of nitrate, AtNRT2.1 and CHL1 expression in the T101A plants was significantly higher than that in the wild-type and also higher than the maximum level seen in their own high-affinity phase. CHL1T101D rescued the high-affinity phase of the primary response, but showed no further increase in the low-affinity phase, suggesting that phosphorylated CHL1 is involved in maintaining the primary nitrate response at a low level. In contrast, CHL1T101A enhanced both the high-affinity and low-affinity phases of the primary nitrate response, suggesting that unphosphorylated CHL1 results in a high primary response. These results show that T101 phosphorylation/dephosphorylation is also involved in regulating the primary nitrate response and that phosphorylation of CHL1 T101 is required to reduce the primary nitrate response to low levels. To determine how the phosphorylation of T101 is regulated and how it is involved in nitrate sensing, protein kinase genes showing an interesting expression pattern in a microarray analysis of the chl1-5 mutant (CITATION) were identified as candidates for further analysis. In our microarray analysis, a protein kinase, CIPK23 (CBL-interacting protein kinase 23/SOS2-like protein kinase [PSK17]), was found to be downregulated in the chl1 mutant. In addition, Q-PCR analysis showed that expression of CIPK23 was transiently induced by nitrate ( CITATIONA). The Arabidopsis genome contains 25 putative CIPKs (CITATION), several of which have been shown to activate plant membrane transport proteins and participate in Na+, salt, cold, drought, and abscisic acid signaling and the K+ shortage response (CITATION). To determine whether CIPK23 is involved in the primary nitrate response, two mutants, cipk23-3 (referred to as iks1-3 in CITATION) and cipk23-4, with T-DNA inserted in the seventh or tenth intron of the CIPK23 gene, respectively (CITATIONB), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. RT-PCR analyses showed that no full-length CIPK23 transcript was expressed in either mutant (CITATIONC). Time course analysis showed that the temporal pattern of the primary nitrate response (peak at 30 min) was not changed in the two mutants (data not shown). The expression of the two primary nitrate response genes AtNRT2.1 and CHL1 in the mutants exposed for 30 min to various concentrations of nitrate was examined by Q-PCR analysis (CITATIOND and CITATION) and found to be quite similar to that in T101A transgenic plants, with increased expression at all concentrations tested. Kinetic analysis of the primary nitrate response using double reciprocal plots showed that, in the cipk23 mutants, the high-affinity KM (30 ± 14 μM) was similar to that in both wild-type and T101A plants, whereas the Vmax for the high-affinity phase was similar to that in T101A plants, i.e., twice as high as in the wild-type, and similar to the wild-type low-affinity phase Vmax (CITATION). Another similarity with T101A plants was that, when the plants were exposed to high concentrations of nitrate, AtNRT2.1 expression in the cipk23 mutant was higher than in the wild-type and also higher than the maximal levels seen in its own high-affinity phase (CITATIOND and CITATION). The increased high-affinity phase of primary nitrate response in the cipk23 mutants suggests that in low nitrate, CIPK23 is a negative regulator of the primary nitrate response. The observation of similar phenotypes in the cipk23 mutants and T101A plants suggests that CHL1 is a potential target of CIPK23. To determine whether CIPK23 could regulate CHL1T101 phosphorylation, 10-day-old wild-type and cipk23 mutant plants were shifted from nitrate-free medium to medium containing 200 μM or 25 mM NO3 − for time course analysis of CHL1 phosphorylation. Membrane proteins were isolated and analyzed by immunoblotting with anti-CHL1 antibodies or anti-P-T101 antibodies, which specifically recognize T101-phosphorylated CHL1 (CITATION). As shown in CITATION and CITATION, CHL1 protein levels were quite similar in the wild-type and cipk23 mutants, and were unchanged after 60 min induction with either high or low concentrations of nitrate. In wild-type plants exposed to a high nitrate concentration (25 mM), phosphorylation of CHL1-T101 remained unchanged for at least 60 min (CITATIONC), whereas exposure to a low nitrate concentration (200 μM) resulted in a transient increase in phosphorylation, peaking at 15 min (CITATIONA). This transient increase in CHL1 T101 phosphorylation in response to low-concentration nitrate was not seen in cipk23 mutants. These data show that CHL1 T101 phosphorylation is differentially regulated by high and low concentrations of nitrate and that CIPK23 is important for the increase in CHL1 phosphorylation in response to low-concentration nitrate. Because phosphorylation of CHL1T101 was reduced in the cipk23 mutants, it was possible that CIPK23 might directly interact with CHL1. We used Dualsystem yeast two-hybrid analyses (CITATION) to test for interaction of CHL1 with CIPK23. As shown in CITATIONA, CIPK23 interacted with the full-length (TM1–12) and the N-terminal half of CHL1 (TM1–6). The control CIPK24 (SOS2), which shows 70.6% sequence similarity with CIPK23, showed no interaction with the CHL1, demonstrating that the interaction between CHL1 and CIPK23 was specific. The specific interaction between the CHL1 and CIPK23 was confirmed using a quantitative β-galactosidase activity assay (CITATIONB). To confirm the interaction in plant cells, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay based on split yellow fluorescence protein (YFP) was performed (CITATION). The different combinations of the N- or C-terminal end of YFP fused to CHL1 or CIPK23 were transiently coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. As shown in CITATIONC and CITATION, for two combinations (CHL1-YC+CIPK23-YN and YN-CHL1+YC-CIPK23) a fluorescent signal was seen in the plasma membrane, whereas no significant signals were observed in controls lacking CHL1 or CIPK23. The results of the protein interaction demonstrated in yeast cells and by the BiFC assay in plant cells show that CIPK23 interacts with CHL1 in the plasma membrane. To determine whether CIPK23 directly regulates phosphorylation of CHL1T101 and influence CHL1 uptake kinetics, nitrate uptake was examined in oocytes coinjected with CHL1, CIPK23, and CBL9 cRNAs ( CITATIONA, 6B, and CITATION) using 150 μM and 10 mM nitrate. Oocytes injected with CIPK23 or CBL9 alone showed no observable nitrate transport, whereas those injected with CHL1 alone exhibited both high- and low-affinity nitrate transport activities. Because it is already known that CIPK23 is activated through CBL9 modulation to activate downstream transporters (CITATION), nitrate uptake was then investigated in oocytes coinjected with CHL1, CIPK23, and CBL9 cRNAs. In the triple-injected cells, nitrate uptake in 150 μM and 10 mM nitrate was, respectively, 285% and 64% of that seen in cells injected only with CHL1, showing that high-affinity uptake activity was significantly increased and low-affinity uptake activity significantly reduced. Uptake measured in 10 mM nitrate includes contributions from both the low- and high-affinity components; when the contribution of the high-affinity component (activity measured in 150 μM nitrate) was subtracted, the triple-injected oocytes were found to have only 15% of the low-affinity uptake of oocytes injected with CHL1 alone (CITATIONB). Together, these data show that in oocytes coinjected with CHL1, CIPK23, and CBL9, high-affinity uptake was higher than that in oocytes injected with only CHL1, whereas low-affinity uptake was largely reduced. These results are consistent with the finding that CHL1 phosphorylation level is reduced in cipk23 mutant. Because CIPK23 was able to directly interact with CHL1 and switch its nitrate uptake mode, we examined whether CIPK23 could phosphorylate CHL1 at T101. Two GST fusion proteins, GST-CIPK23 and GST-CBL9, purified from E. coli, were used in an in vitro kinase assay. Membrane proteins isolated from the roots of wild-type plants grown in ammonium were incubated with or without the purified CIPK23 and CBL9 proteins, and then subjected to immunoblot analysis using anti-CHL1 or anti-P-T101 antibodies. As shown in CITATIONC and CITATION, compared to the no-CIPK23 control, phosphorylation of CHL1T101 was greatly increased after coincubation with GST-CIPK23 and GST-CBL9, showing that protein kinase CIPK23 can directly phosphorylate CHL1 at Thr101.
!~MM~! The plant growth conditions for the Q-PCR analysis, nitrate uptake assay, and protein blot assay were described previously (CITATION). Three vessels (∼100 seedlings each) of samples were pooled for each independent experiment. Unless indicated, plants were grown in 12.5 mM (NH4)2 succinate medium at pH 6.5 for 10 days, transferred to a fresh 12.5 mM (NH4)2 succinate medium at pH 5.5 overnight/16 hr, and then transferred to another fresh 12.5 mM (NH4)2 succinate medium at pH 5.5 for an additional 3 hr. After 3 hr treatment, the plants were shifted for the indicated time to 60 ml of the same pH 5.5 growth medium, but with the (NH4)2 succinate replaced with KNO3 or KCl. The cipk23 T-DNA insertion lines cipk23-3 (SALK_036154) and cipk23-4 (SALK_112091) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org/abrc/). The insertions were identified using a T-DNA left border primer and CIPK23-specific primers (listed in CITATION). To generate the transgenic plants, CHL1 promoter::CHL1T101D/A genomic DNA fragments were constructed and transformed into chl1-5 plants (details in CITATION). All plasmid constructions are given in the CITATION. The primers for the PCR reactions are listed in the CITATION. Real-time Q-PCR was performed as described previously (CITATION) using a LightCycler System (Roche Diagnostics). Q-PCR presented are the means ± SD of triplicate, each on ∼200 seedlings grown in three boxes. Statistic analyses were performed using t test in Excel program. Identical results were obtained in another experiment or two other experiments. For split-ubiquitin analysis (CITATION), the full-length cDNAs of interest were cloned in frame with either the C-terminal (Cub) or N-terminal (NubG; wild-type I-13 replaced by G) subdomain of ubiquitin, and then introduced into yeast strain DSY2 and DSY1 by the lithium acetate method (CITATION). For β-galactosidase activity assay see the CITATION. As described previously (CITATION), mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from 2-week-old wild-type plants (ecotype Columbia) and transformed with different YFP fusion protein combinations (http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/protocols_reg.html), and then, after incubation at 23°C for 12–18 hr, YFP fluorescence in the transformed protoplasts was imaged using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510; Carl Zeiss). Fifteen micrograms of GST fusion proteins expressed in E. coli strain BL21 and purified using glutathione Sepharose 4B (Pharmacia) and 20 μg of membrane fractions from Arabidopsis root were subjected to in vitro phosphorylation assays at 25°C for 30 min in 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), 2.5 mM MnCl2, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 0.5 mM CaCl2, 1 mM DTT, and 1 μM ATP in a final volume of 20 ml. The reaction was stopped by addition of 6 μl of 4× loading buffer and the proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE and detected by western blotting using anti-P-CHL1T101 antibody. The protocols and antibodies used have been described previously (CITATION). The oocytes were injected with distilled water (50 nl as control), CHL1 cRNA (50 ng in 50 nl), chl1-9 cRNA (50 ng in 50 nl), CIPK23 cRNA (100 ng in 50 nl), or CBL9 cRNA (50 ng in 50 nl) or a CHL1, CBL9, and CIPK23 cRNA mixture (50:100:50 ng in 50 nl). As described previously (CITATION), after 2 days the oocytes were incubated for 90 min in 15NO3 − medium and the amount of nitrate retained in the oocytes was determined.
