!~ABS~!    We identified and functionally characterized the AtSKIP gene (At1g77180), an Arabidopsis homologue of SNW/SKIP, under abiotic stresses. Although the SNW/SKIP protein has been implicated as a critical transcription cofactor, its biological functions have yet to be reported in any plant.   Recently, we have isolated Salt‐tolerance genes (SATs) via the overexpression screening of yeast with a maize cDNA library. One of the selected genes (SAT2) appeared to confer elevated tolerance to salt. Maize SAT2 cDNA encodes a homologue of the human SNW/SKIP transcriptional coregulator.   Treatment with salt, mannitol and abscisic acid induced AtSKIP expression. Ectopic expression of the AtSKIP gene modulated the induction of salt tolerance, dehydration resistance and insensitivity towards abscisic acid under stress conditions. By contrast, atskip antisense lines displayed reduced tolerance to abiotic stresses during germination. Moreover, a decrease in AtSKIP expression resulted in an abnormal phenotype. We further determined that the AtSKIP protein activated the transcription of a reporter gene in yeast. Green fluorescent protein‐tagged AtSKIP was localized in the nuclei of both onion cells and transgenic Arabidopsis cells.   Taken together, these results suggest that AtSKIP functions as both a positive regulator and putative potential transcription factor in the abiotic stress signalling pathway. 
!~RES~! Previously, we have isolated SATs via the overexpression screening of yeast with a maize cDNA library from kernels (Methods S1, see Supporting Information). During screening, we identified a maize clone (SAT2) that appeared to confer elevated tolerance to salt in comparison with control cells (Fig. S1, see Supporting Information). The isolated partial SAT2 cDNA (GenBank Accession No. AY106331) displayed considerable homology with known members of the SNW/SKIP protein family. SNW/SKIP is a nuclear protein that is highly conserved in a wide variety of organisms from yeasts to humans and is ubiquitously essential for survival (Baudino et al., 1998; Dahl et al., 1998; Martinkova et al., 2002). Several lines of evidence show that SKIP is a critical transcription cofactor, but its biological functions have yet to be reported in any plant.  In an effort to gain an insight into the function of the SNW/SKIP gene in plants, we attempted to isolate the gene in Arabidopsis that encodes for sequences similar to the isolated partial maize SAT2 (Fig. S2, see Supporting Information). The isolated cDNA sequence (At1g77180) comprised 1842 bp and harboured one single open reading frame encoding a protein of 613 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 67.5 kDa. As shown in Fig. 1a, the deduced amino acid sequence displayed a considerable degree of homology with already identified members of the SNW/SKIP protein family. The A. thaliana gene was therefore designated as AtSKIP. On the basis of the amino acid sequence alignments, at least three distinct domains were detected within the SNW/SKIP homologues: a central domain harbouring the so‐called SNW box; a less well‐conserved N‐terminal domain that has so far not been linked to a specific function, but which contains a glycine‐rich box that was also identified in AtSKIP (Fig. 1b); and a C‐terminal domain involved in homodimer formation and in the interaction with the small subunit of splicing factor (Ambrozkova et al., 2001). Based on its amino acid sequence features, AtSKIP seems to be encoded by only one gene in the Arabidopsis genome and can be clearly assigned to the SNW/SKIP family of transcriptional regulators.  [[FIGURE]] To obtain clues regarding the function of AtSKIP, we initially assessed its expression pattern. Northern blot experiments demonstrated that AtSKIP was expressed in every developmental stage and within the entire plant (Fig. 2a), especially the roots, inflorescence stems, rosette leaves and flowers, with a small amount of the transcript being detected in the seeds and siliques (Fig. 2b). Genome‐wide expression analysis in Arabidopsis revealed that the expression of AtSKIP was induced by ABA, senescence, salinity, drought, osmotic stress and cold (Gene Investigator, https://iii.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at; AtGenExpress visualization tool, http://jsp.weigelworld.org; Bae et al., 2003). Next, in an effort to determine the in vivo functions of AtSKIP, we assessed the accumulation of AtSKIP RNA in 10‐d‐old Arabidopsis seedlings during salt, mannitol and ABA treatment using qPCR. As shown in Fig. 2c, AtSKIP was induced slightly in Arabidopsis seedlings within 3 h of salt or ABA treatment, and continued with time. A mannitol concentration of 400 mm resulted in a slight induction of AtSKIP in the whole parts of 10‐d‐old seedlings within 6 h of mannitol treatment, with a marginal decline after 12 h. The induction in AtSKIP expression was sustained for at least 24 h after mannitol treatment (Fig. 2c). AtSKIP was also induced steadily during mannitol treatment, in contrast with the control RESPONSIVE TO DESICCATION 29A (RD29A) gene (Nakashima et al., 2006), which was induced quickly and transiently (Fig. 2d). However, AtSKIP expression was induced to a lesser degree, on average, compared with salt‐ and ABA‐treated samples.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of AtSKIP, a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene was fused in‐frame to the AtSKIP coding region to generate a GFP‐AtSKIP fusion protein in onion cells and transgenic Arabidopsis plants. As shown in Fig. 3, the fluorescence signal of the GFP‐AtSKIP construct was detected in the nuclei of the onion cells (Fig. 3a) and in transgenic Arabidopsis (Fig. 3b); however, the majority of the GFP protein was located in the cytoplasm of the onion cells, and the GFP fluorescence signal was weak (Fig. 3a). These results are consistent with the identity of AtSKIP as a nuclear‐localized protein, which is in agreement with its predicted function as a putative transcription factor.  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether AtSKIP could display transcriptional activation activity, full‐length cDNA of AtSKIP was fused to the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain and the resultant construct, AtSKIP613 (Fig. 4a), was introduced into yeast strain Y190. The AtSKIP613 protein was capable of inducing lacZ expression by itself in yeast cells (Fig. 4a), indicative of a putative transcriptional activator function for the full‐length AtSKIP protein. To further define the regions corresponding to the transcriptional activation domain, we constructed mutants with deleted portions of the AtSKIP protein (Fig. 4a). When part of the N‐terminus was deleted (construct AtSKIP430), a positive colour reaction developed within 1 h on the X‐Gal filter assay (Fig. 4a). As was the case with construct AtSKIP430, constructs AtSKIP253 and AtSKIP83 also conferred a high level of lacZ expression within 1 h (Fig. 4a). When the C‐terminal end was deleted, leaving only the N‐terminal region (construct AtSKIP183) or central peptides with the N‐terminal region (constructs AtSKIP530 and AtSKIP360), no lacZ expression was evident, even on overnight incubation (Fig. 4a), implicating the C‐terminal domain as crucial for transcriptional activation activity. As the X‐Gal filter assay does not provide a quantitative measure of the lacZ expression level, a second set of experiments was conducted in which β‐galactosidase activity was assayed in the lysates of yeast cells expressing these deletion constructs of the AtSKIP protein. Figure 4b shows the β‐galactosidase activity recovered from yeast cells expressing the AtSKIP deletion proteins. Fundamentally, the results of this analysis were consistent with those obtained from the filter assay.  [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, in an effort to evaluate the functional consequences of the loss of AtSKIP, atskip antisense lines were generated using full‐length cDNA sequences. The SNW/SKIP protein performs an essential function as a transcriptional activator in all eukaryotes; for example, knockout of this gene is lethal, as has been demonstrated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Diehl & Pringle, 1991; Ambrozkova et al., 2001). In this study, because the expression of AtSKIP was only partially abolished, as shown by the results of RT‐PCR (Fig. 5a), we successfully obtained atskip antisense transgenic lines. Pleiotropic abnormal developmental phenotypes were observed in these antisense lines, including reduced inflorescence stems and smaller rosette leaves (Fig. 5b). In addition, antisense lines showed markedly reduced seed production, as indicated by the observation of shortened siliques with fewer seeds (data not shown). These results strongly bolster the concept that the AtSKIP gene may perform a crucial function in the regulation of the plant development of Arabidopsis.  [[FIGURE]] To assess its function in vivo, we induced AtSKIP overexpression in Arabidopsis under the control of the 35S promoter. Eight homozygous lines (T3 generation) were obtained, and two lines (OX‐9 and OX‐11) that displayed high levels of transgene expression (Fig. 6a) were selected for phenotypic characterization. The comparison of AtSKIP‐overexpressing lines with wild‐type (WT) plants demonstrated no morphological alterations or retardation of growth.  [[FIGURE]] We attempted to determine whether salt, mannitol or ABA stress tolerance could be influenced by the levels of AtSKIP expression. AtSKIP expression was assessed via RT‐PCR in two randomly selected independent atskip (atskip2 and atskip11) antisense lines. AtSKIP expression was knocked down in the antisense lines (Fig. 6b). To evaluate the effects of AtSKIP expression on germination with ABA treatment, the seeds of WT, atskip and AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants were germinated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige & Skoog, 1962). The germination ratio among WT, atskip and AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants was similar and acceptable on MS medium (Fig. 6c). As the seeds of WT, atskip and AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants germinated on MS medium containing 2.5 μm ABA, the cotyledon greening efficiency of WT was only slightly above 35% at 10 d after germination; less than 25% of the atskip mutant plants (line 11) remained alive and only 5% of the atskip cotyledons (line 2) expanded and turned green, compared with 95% in OX‐9 and OX‐11 (Fig. 6c). These results indicate that the atskip mutant is more likely than the WT to be sensitive to ABA. However, the AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants were demonstrated to be more resistant to exogenous ABA than were the WT and atskip mutant plants.  To evaluate the effects of AtSKIP expression on germination with elevated salinity or mannitol, the seeds of the WT, atskip and AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants were germinated in MS medium supplemented with 150 mm NaCl or 400 mm mannitol, and then permitted to grow for 10 d before assessment of the survival rates of the AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants in response to salt or dehydration stress. At 150 mm NaCl, c. 80% of the WT leaves expanded and turned green, compared with more than 90% of the OX‐9 and OX‐11 lines (Fig. 7a,b). By contrast, 10–20% of two atskip transgenic lines remained alive at 10 d after germination (DAG) (Fig. 7a,b). Osmotic stress also resulted in drastic differences in the survival rate after 10 d: 70–90% of two AtSKIP‐overexpressing seeds generated pale green or green leaves, compared with c. 50% of the WT controls (Fig. 7c,d), whereas less than 15% of the antisense transgenic plants remained alive at 10 DAG (Fig. 7c,d). These results are consistent with AtSKIP being a necessary component for the regulation of developmental growth under abiotic stress.  [[FIGURE]] It has been relatively well established that the expression of the Rd29A, Rd29B and Cold‐regulated 15A (Cor15A) genes is induced by stress (Ishitani et al., 1998; Rosado et al., 2006). Rd29A and Rd29B are also induced under drought, ABA and salt stress conditions (Abe et al., 1997; Nakashima et al., 2006). In addition, the Cor15A gene is induced by ABA, high salinity, cold and osmotic stress (Ishitani et al., 1998). Figure S3 (see Supporting Information) shows that the transcript levels of stress‐inducible genes, including Rd29A, Rd29B and Cor15A, displayed enhanced induction in AtSKIP‐overexpressing OX‐9 and WT plants than in atskip2 mutant plants following ABA or mannitol treatment, as the expression of the three genes was slightly less induced by salt treatment in the atskip2 mutant than in the WT and AtSKIP‐overexpressing OX‐9 plants. These observations support the concept that AtSKIP regulates the expression of these stress marker genes under salt, dehydration and ABA stress conditions. However, the expression levels of Rd29A and Rd29B in WT and AtSKIP‐overexpressing plants under ABA or salt stress seem to be very similar. This probably indicates that the overexpression of AtSKIP by itself is not sufficient for the induction of stress‐related genes and may require additional components. 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis plants were grown in growth chambers under intense light at 22°C, 60% relative humidity and a 16 h day length. The plants were challenged with salt by the submersion of 10‐d‐old Arabidopsis seedlings in a solution containing 150 mm NaCl. Samples were obtained at 0, 3, 6 and 12 h of salt stress. For the mannitol treatment of Arabidopsis, 10‐d‐old seedlings were submerged in a solution containing 400 mm mannitol and sampled at 0, 6, 12 and 24 h. For ABA challenge, 10‐d‐old seedlings were submerged in a solution containing 100 μm ABA and sampled at 0, 3, 6 and 12 h. In each case, the retrieved seedlings were promptly frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C.  Quantitative real‐time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was carried out with a Rotor‐Gene 6000 quantitative PCR apparatus (Corbett Research, Mortlake, NSW, Australia) and the results were analysed using RG6000 1.7 software (Corbett Research). Total RNA was extracted from the variously treated 10‐d‐old Arabidopsis seedlings using an RNeasy Plant Mini kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA, USA). qPCR was carried out using the SensiMix One‐Step kit (Quantance, London, UK). Arabidopsis Actin8 was used as the internal control. Quantitative analysis was carried out using the Delta Delta CT method (Livak & Schmittgen, 2001). Each sample was run in three independent experiments. The reaction primers utilized were as follows:     for qPCR of AtSKIP (At1g77180), upstream 5′‐GCTTTCACAGGGGCTTCA‐3′ and downstream 5′‐AAACTGTTTTAACAGATCCA‐3′;   for qPCR of RD29A (At5g52310), upstream 5′‐AGGAACCACCACTCAACACAC‐3′ and downstream 5′‐CGTCATCATCATCATCTTCTTC‐3′;   for qPCR of RD29B (At5g52300), upstream 5′‐GAGCAAGCAGAAGAACCAATCA‐3′ and downstream 5′‐CATCATCATCATCTTCCACATCG‐3′;   for qPCR of Cor15A (At2g42540), upstream 5′‐CAGCGGAGCCAAGCAGAGCAG‐3′ and downstream 5′‐CATCGAGGATGTTGCCGTCACC‐3′;   for qPCR of Actin8 (At1g49240), upstream 5′‐TGCCTATCTACGAGGGTTTC‐3′ and downstream 5′‐GTCCGTCGGGTAATTCATAG‐3′.  For the analysis of transactivation activity, a subclone of each type of AtSKIP deletion cDNA was constructed via PCR amplification using primers harbouring the BamHI and SalI restriction endonuclease sites (Table S1, see Supporting Information). The coding sequences were inserted into the pAS2 vector and the clones obtained were confirmed by DNA sequence analysis. Deletion constructs were transformed into the Y190 yeast strain (MATa gal4 gal80 his3 trp1‐901 ade2‐101 ura3‐52 leu2‐3 leu2‐112 + URA3::GAL>>lacZ LYS2::GAL(UAS)>>HIS3 cycr) by the lithium method (Schiestl & Gietz, 1989) and the cells were selected on –Trp medium. Colonies were replated on –Trp medium and employed for 5‐bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indolyl‐β‐d‐galactopyranoside (X‐Gal) filter assays as described previously (Bai & Elledge, 1996). To measure the strength of X‐Gal activity from the AtSKIP deletion constructs, a liquid β‐galactosidase assay, using o‐nitrophenyl β‐d‐galactopyranoside as a substrate, was conducted as described by the manufacturer (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA).  The gene‐specific cDNA fragment of AtSKIP was amplified by PCR using the forward primer 5′‐CGGGATCCCGTTTAACGCCGGTCACTGCGT‐3′ (BamHI site is shown in italics) and reverse primer 5′‐CGAGCTCGATGAAGTCTCTTAATGATC‐3′ (SacI site is shown in italics). The PCR products were initially cloned into the pGEM T‐easy vector and confirmed by sequencing. This antisense AtSKIP cDNA construct was then released by digestion with BamHI and SacI, and subcloned into the pBI121 vector under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. The construct was then transformed into Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia), and the resultant T3 homozygous transgenic lines (atskip2 and atskip11) were evaluated for ABA and abiotic stress sensitivity.  Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis leaves using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT‐PCR) was utilized to obtain full‐length AtSKIP cDNA (At1g77180). The generated product was then cloned into the pGEM T‐easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) for DNA sequence analysis. The RT‐PCR primers were as follows: forward primer 5′‐CGGGATCCCGTATGAAGTCTCTTAATGATC‐3′ (BamHI site is shown in italics) and reverse primer 5′‐CGAGCTCGTTAACGCCGGTCACTGCGTTC‐3′ (SacI site is shown in italics) on the basis of the sequence information in a cDNA database (NCBI, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Amplification proceeded for 35 cycles consisting of 94°C for 30 s; 57°C for 30 s and 72°C for 2 min. The PCR‐amplified products were double‐digested with BamHI and SacI and then directionally cloned into the plant expression vector pBI121. The resultant construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by in planta vacuum infiltration (Bechtold & Pelletier, 1998). Homozygous lines (T3 generation) from eight independent transformants were obtained, and two lines (OX‐9 and OX‐11) displaying high levels of transgene expression were selected for phenotypic characterization. The kanamycin resistance of the T2 generation from these two selected lines segregated as a single locus. 
