!~ABS~! In plant innate immunity, the surface‐exposed leucine‐rich repeat receptor kinases EFR and FLS2 mediate recognition of the bacterial pathogen‐associated molecular patterns EF‐Tu and flagellin, respectively. We identified the Arabidopsis stromal‐derived factor‐2 (SDF2) as being required for EFR function, and to a lesser extent FLS2 function. SDF2 resides in an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein complex with the Hsp40 ERdj3B and the Hsp70 BiP, which are components of the ER‐quality control (ER‐QC). Loss of SDF2 results in ER retention and degradation of EFR. The differential requirement for ER‐QC components by EFR and FLS2 could be linked to N‐glycosylation mediated by STT3a, a catalytic subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex involved in co‐translational N‐glycosylation. Our results show that the plasma membrane EFR requires the ER complex SDF2–ERdj3B–BiP for its proper accumulation, and provide a demonstration of a physiological requirement for ER‐QC in transmembrane receptor function in plants. They also provide an unexpected differential requirement for ER‐QC and N‐glycosylation components by two closely related receptors.
!~RES~! To identify new regulators of EFR function in Arabidopsis, we used the property of elf18 to cause SGI (CITATION) (FIG-REF) and screened ∼35 000 T‐DNA activation‐tagging transgenic lines and ∼137 500 ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS)‐mutagenised M2 seeds (all in Col‐0 background). We identified 160 elf18‐insensitive (elfin) mutants. Sequencing the EFR locus in these mutants identified 57 efr mutants corresponding to 37 different alleles (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We isolated three allelic elfin mutants at a new locus by screening the activation‐tagging transgenic population. Genetic analyses indicated that the mutation is recessive, suggesting that the phenotype is conferred by a loss‐of‐function mutation. All three mutants carried the same T‐DNA insertion at the At2g25110 locus encoding the Arabidopsis orthologue of the murine stromal cell‐derived factor‐2 gene, AtSDF2, and were therefore named sdf2‐1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 1). In addition, an independent homozygous T‐DNA insertion line (SALK_141321), sdf2‐2, and two further sdf2 alleles identified in the EMS elfin collection by DNA sequencing (sdf2‐3 and sdf2‐4) were similarly impaired in elf18‐triggered SGI (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 1). No developmental or growth defects were observed in the sdf2 mutants under our growth conditions (data not shown). Finally, transgenic sdf2‐2 seedlings expressing the SDF2–3xHA fusion protein under the control of the SDF2 promoter regained elf18 sensitivity (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 1), showing that mutation in SDF2 is responsible for the observed elfin phenotype. AtSDF2 is a single copy gene in Arabidopsis and clear orthologs exist in all eukaryotes, except fungi (Supplementary Figure 2). Although SDF2 is highly conserved in eukaryotes, no mutant phenotype has been reported in any organism so far. AtSDF2 is a small protein of 218 amino acids (24 kDa) consisting of a 23 amino‐acid (aa) predicted N‐terminal signal peptide (SP) and three repeats of the MIR domain (FIG-REF) found in mannosyltransferases, the inositol‐3‐phosphate receptor (IP3R) and the ryanodine receptor (RyR) (CITATION). Although many eukaryotic proteins contain MIR domains, SDF2 is the only MIR domain‐containing protein in plants. As SDF2 is required for elf18‐triggered SGI, we tested whether it is involved in other PTI responses. We first tested whether sdf2‐2 was also impaired in the flg22‐triggered SGI. Flg22 sensitivity over a range of concentrations was slightly reduced in sdf2‐2 seedlings as compared with wild type in this assay, but to a lesser extent than with elf18 (FIG-REF). Elf18 and flg22 typically induce an oxidative burst and MAP kinase activation within minutes of treatment in wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). Although the oxidative burst induced by elf18 was strongly diminished in sdf2‐2 leaves, it was less reduced after flg22 treatment (FIG-REF). In contrast, the oxidative burst triggered by the fungal PAMP chitin, which depends on the LysM‐RK CERK1 (CITATION; CITATION), was not impaired at all in sdf2‐2 mutants (FIG-REF), indicating that SDF2 is not required for chitin responses. Activation of MAP kinases 4 and 6 (MPK4 and MPK6) was almost completely abolished after elf18 treatment, whereas weakly decreased in response to flg22 in sdf2‐2 seedlings, when compared with wild type (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether SDF2 is required for innate immunity. First, we compared the ability of elf18 and flg22 to induce resistance to the virulent bacterial strain Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pto DC3000). Elf18‐ and flg22‐induced resistances were both reduced in sdf2‐2 leaves compared with wild type (Supplementary Figure 3). Spray‐inoculated fls2c mutant plants are more susceptible to Pto DC3000 than wild type, whereas efr‐1 plants are not (FIG-REF). Sdf2‐2 plants were however hyper‐susceptible to Pto DC3000, comparably to fls2c plants (FIG-REF). PTI defects can be subtle, but can be detected more sensitively with weakly virulent bacterial strains lacking effector molecules. The bacterial effectors AvrPto and AvrPtoB directly target FLS2, EFR and BAK1 to suppress PTI (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), whereas the phytotoxin coronatine (COR) suppresses PAMP‐induced stomatal closure, allowing bacterial entry into the leaf apoplast (CITATION). When spray‐inoculated, both Pto DC3000 COR− and Pto DC3000 ΔavrPto/ΔavrPtoB strains caused reduced disease symptoms and multiplied less than Pto DC3000 on wild‐type plants (∼1 and 2 log units, respectively) (FIG-REF). However, Arabidopsis efr‐1, fls2c and fls2c efr‐1 mutants displayed more severe disease symptoms and allowed more bacterial growth when spray‐infected with these strains (FIG-REF), especially in the case of Pto DC3000 ΔavrPto/ΔavrPtoB that grew almost as much as Pto DC3000 in these lines (FIG-REF). We sometimes observed that efr‐1 and fls2c efr‐1 were more susceptible to Pto DC3000 strains compared with wild type and fls2c, respectively (data not shown), suggesting that FLS2 and EFR can act additively in perception of this bacterium. We found that, although sdf2‐2 plants were not substantially affected in their flg22 responses (FIG-REF), they were hyper‐susceptible to both Pto DC3000 COR− and Pto DC3000 ΔavrPto/ΔavrPtoB to a similar level as fls2c efr‐1 (FIG-REF). Fls2 and efr mutants do not display enhanced susceptibility to Pto DC3000 when infiltrated into the leaves (CITATION, CITATION). Unexpectedly, we observed that sdf2‐2 was however more susceptible to Pto DC3000 after this infection procedure (FIG-REF). FLS2, but not EFR, is involved in the non‐host resistance to the non‐adapted bacterial strain Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci 6605 (CITATION) (FIG-REF). Surprisingly, we found that the sdf2‐2 mutation allowed growth of this strain to similar levels as on fls2c and fls2c efr‐1 plants (FIG-REF). Therefore, our results clearly show that sdf2 mutants are more susceptible to bacterial infection than efr mutants. [[FIGURE]] We tested whether the enhanced disease susceptibility of sdf2‐2 could result from a defect in SA signalling, as SA positively regulates resistance to Pseudomonas, and as the SDF2 gene was identified earlier as a potential direct target of the SA signalling regulator NPR1 (CITATION). SDF2 was however not required for secretion of the PR1 protein (a marker of NPR1‐mediated responses) and bacterial resistance induced by the SA analogue benzothiadiazole (BTH) (Supplementary Figure 4). Thus, the hyper‐susceptibility of sdf2‐2 plants to bacteria is not due to a defect in SA‐mediated resistance. SDF2 was also not required for the immunity triggered by recognition of the bacterial effectors AvrRpt2 and AvrRps4 (Supplementary Figure 5). Although sdf2‐2 was not affected in chitin sensitivity, we tested its susceptibility to fungal pathogens. Notably, sdf2‐2 was more susceptible to the virulent necrotrophic fungi Alternaria brassicicola and Plectosphaerella cucumerina (FIG-REF). Thus, SDF2 is required for EFR, and to a lesser extent for FLS2, function. In addition, the enhanced disease susceptibility phenotype of sdf2‐2 to bacteria and fungi suggests that SDF2 may have an important function in regulating other, yet unknown, PRRs involved in bacterial and fungal recognition, or conceivably other components of plant defence. [[FIGURE]] Plant SDF2 proteins contain a predicted SP, but no ER or Golgi retention signals, whereas SDF2 proteins from other eukaryotes carry a C‐terminal K/HDEL motif (Supplementary Figure 2) classically associated with the retention of soluble proteins in the ER. To localise AtSDF2 within the plant cell, we transiently co‐expressed AtSDF2–eYFP fusion protein under the control of its native promoter with the ER marker ER‐CK (35S::CFP‐HDEL) (CITATION) in Nicotiana benthamiana. Confocal microscopy revealed overlapping ER localisation for both expressed proteins (FIG-REF). The same ER localisation pattern was observed in sdf2‐2 plants transgenic for AtSDF2p::SDF2‐eYFP (FIG-REF), suggesting that SDF2 localises to the ER. [[FIGURE]] As SDF2 does not possess an ER retention signal, its ER localisation could be due to its interaction with ER resident proteins. To test this hypothesis, we searched for SDF2 interactors in planta. Immunoprecipitation of proteins associated with SDF2–3xHA and subsequent mass spectrometry analysis revealed the soluble luminal protein ERdj3B (At3g62600) as the major SDF2 interactor (Supplementary Figure 6). ERdj3B, an ER‐localised member of the HSP40 co‐chaperone family, is one of the two Arabidopsis orthologs of the mammalian ERdj3 and yeast Scj1p proteins (CITATION). The SDF2–ERdj3B interaction was confirmed in planta with a specific anti‐ERdj3B antibody (FIG-REF). Although ERdj3B directly interacted with SDF2 in the yeast two‐hybrid (Y2H) system, its Arabidopsis paralog ERdj3A did not (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figures 7 and 8). In mammals, SDF2L exists in complex with ERdj3 and the luminal‐binding protein BiP, an ER‐localised member of the HSP70 family of chaperones (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Similarly, we found that the SDF2 immunocomplex also contains BiP in Arabidopsis (FIG-REF). There are three BiP isoforms in Arabidopsis (BiP1–3) (CITATION). In Y2H assays, BiP1–3 interacted with ERdj3B, as well as with ERdj3A, but not with SDF2 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 7). These results indicate that, in Arabidopsis, SDF2 exists in a complex with ERdj3B and BiP1–3, in which ERdj3B may act as a bridge between SDF2 and BiP. Notably, SDF2 was not found in complex with other ER resident proteins under the conditions tested (Supplementary Figures 8 and 9), showing that the association of SDF2 with ERdj3B and BiP was specific. As both SDF2 and ERdj3B lack an ER retention signal, their ER localisation might be due to interaction with BiPs. Three erdj3b alleles were independently identified by map‐based cloning and sequencing of elfin mutants (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 10). Analysis of a T‐DNA null allele later confirmed that erdj3b‐1 plants were strongly affected in the elf18‐triggered SGI, oxidative burst and MAP kinase activation, resembling sdf2‐2 plants (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Erdj3b‐1 was also weakly impaired in flg22 responses (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) but not in chitin responses (Supplementary Figure 11). These results reveal that ERdj3B is also required for EFR and to a lesser extent FLS2 function. [[FIGURE]] The unfolded protein response (UPR) is activated by conditions that overload the ER‐QC (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, we found that both sdf2‐2 and erdj3b‐1 were more sensitive to the drug tunicamycin, an inhibitor of N‐glycosylation that triggers the UPR (Supplementary Figure 13), providing additional evidence for SDF2 and ERdj3B being involved in ER‐QC. We also analysed functions for BiP1–3 in elf18 responses. Single bip1, bip2 or bip3 mutants all showed wild‐type levels of elf18 responses (Supplementary Figure 12). Although the single bip2 mutant was shown earlier to be fully impaired in SA‐induced resistance (CITATION), BiP1 and BiP2 are highly similar and might be functionally redundant, whereas BiP3 is more distantly related (CITATION). We therefore generated a bip1‐1 bip2‐1 double mutant, which showed a wild‐type response to elf18 as well (Supplementary Figure 12). Silencing of all three Arabidopsis BiP genes recently proved to be lethal (CITATION) thus preventing us from testing the possible requirement of all three BiPs in elf18 responses. On the basis of its association with ERdj3B and BiP, we hypothesised that SDF2 is also part of the ER‐QC. We therefore tested whether SDF2 could regulate EFR directly. As EFR gene expression was not affected in sdf2‐2 (Supplementary Figure 14A), we next determined EFR protein levels in vivo. We generated efr‐1, sdf2‐2 and efr‐1 sdf2‐2 lines transgenic for the EFRp::EFR‐eGFP‐HA construct to enable detection of physiological levels of EFR protein. Expression of the tagged EFR complemented the efr‐1 mutation (data not shown) and we detected a single band running at ∼175 kDa, the expected size for the glycosylated form of EFR‐eGFP‐HA in several independent primary transformants (Supplementary Figure 14B). However, the EFR protein level in total extracts was strongly reduced in the efr‐1 sdf2‐2 and sdf2‐2 backgrounds (Supplementary Figure 14B; FIG-REF), showing a requirement of SDF2 for EFR protein accumulation. The enzyme endoglycosidase H (Endo H) cleaves off ER‐specific glycans, whereas complex glycans that are matured during their transit through the Golgi apparatus are resistant to Endo H cleavage. Therefore, Endo H treatment allows the differentiation of plasma membrane localised glycoproteins from their ER localised counterparts. Using Endo H assays, we found that, although transgenic sdf2‐2 plants express some levels of EFR protein, it is completely cleaved by Endo H (FIG-REF), revealing that the expressed EFR protein is retained in the ER. In contrast, most of the EFR protein expressed in the efr‐1 background is resistant to Endo H, revealing its localisation at the plasma membrane. Consistently, cross‐linking and binding studies with radiolabelled elf18 peptide indicated that sdf2‐2 has fewer binding sites than wild type (Supplementary Figure 15A), corroborating the reduced elf18 sensitivity of the sdf2‐2 mutant (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Although FLS2 accumulated to similar levels in sdf2‐2 and WT total extracts (FIG-REF), half of FLS2 seems to be retained in the ER in sdf2‐2 (FIG-REF). This is consistent with the decreased flg22 sensitivity and binding of sdf2‐2 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figures 3 and 15). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, treatment with kifunensine, an inhibitor of ER mannosidase I that prevents ER exit and consequently ERAD (CITATION), increased EFR protein levels in sdf2‐2 (FIG-REF), whereas the 26S proteasome inhibitor MG132 had no effect (Supplementary Figure 16). Despite increased levels after kifunensine treatment, Endo H assays revealed that EFR is still retained in the ER in the sdf2‐2 background (FIG-REF). These results revealed that EFR is actively degraded in sdf2‐2 and that this degradation occurs outside of the ER. Future work will be required to determine whether EFR is degraded in the cytosol as most ERAD substrates or in the vacuole as recently shown for a subset of plant ERAD substrates (CITATION). An intriguing question is why FLS2 function is affected less than EFR by mutations in ER‐QC components, whereas CERK1 function is not affected at all. This is particularly surprising as EFR and FLS2 are structurally similar and belong to the subfamily XII of LRR‐RKs. One possible explanation for the apparent specificity could be due to a receptor level threshold required for responsiveness. EFR protein levels might be much lower than FLS2 protein levels. Therefore, mutations in ER‐QC components would reduce EFR protein amounts to a level that severely impacts elf18 responses, whereas FLS2 protein amounts would still be sufficient to ensure flg22 responses. However, expression of EFR under the control of the FLS2 promoter in efr‐1 and efr‐1 sdf2‐2 did not revert the reduced EFR accumulation because of the sdf2 mutation (FIG-REF). Therefore, the requirement of SDF2 for EFR is not due to a decreased protein expression compared with FLS2, and might rather be due to intrinsic properties of EFR. Notably, we have identified in our elfin population alleles of STT3A (Staurosporin and temperature sensitive‐3A), coding for a component of the ER oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex involved in N‐glycosylation of nascent proteins (CITATION). Unexpectedly, the characterisation of stt3a mutants revealed that STT3a‐mediated N‐glycosylation is indispensable for EFR, but dispensable for FLS2 function (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure 17). Although plant extracts of stt3a mutants still contain glycosylated proteins, the pattern of N‐glycosylation is different (CITATION), suggesting that only a subset of proteins are STT3a substrates. In mammals, STT3a is important for co‐translational N‐glycosylation of nascent proteins, whereas STT3b rather has a function in post‐translational N‐glycosylation (CITATION). Arabidopsis stt3b mutants were not affected in elf18‐ or flg22‐triggered SGI (data not shown), showing that STT3A is the key glycosylation determinant for EFR. Although both EFR and FLS2 carry numerous putative glycosylation sites, they may have different glycosylation states (e.g. position, number of glycosylated sites, glycan structures) that could impact their interaction with and dependence on the ER‐QC machinery. [[FIGURE]] In addition to reporting a function for SDF2 and ERdj3B in plant innate immunity, we and others have found that the Arabidopsis CRT3 and UGGT are also required for EFR function, as loss of either CRT3 or UGGT leads to complete loss of EFR accumulation (CITATION; CITATION). Altogether, this shows that EFR relies on both the CNX/CRT3 and SDF2/ERdj3B/BiP systems for its proper function. BiP and CRT exist in an abundant large complex in tobacco (CITATION; CITATION). CRT3, SDF2, ERdj3B, BIP and potentially UGGT may therefore exist in the same complex to regulate proper EFR folding. Such large chaperone complexes have been reported in mammals (CITATION), but we have failed so far to detect CRT3 or UGGT in the SDF2 immunocomplex. Further work is therefore required to investigate the existence of such large complex. Our infection data strongly suggest that SDF2 may also regulate other unknown PRRs involved in bacterial and fungal recognition, or conceivably other defence components, whose identity will be interesting to investigate in future experiments. The specificity of the reported mutations, however, show that SDF2 and ERdj3B are specifically involved in plant innate immunity and clearly argues against a general defect in protein secretion. It would be interesting to test whether they are also having a function in other stress responses, for example, abiotic stresses, and to identify which other members of the Hsp70 and Hsp40 families for example ensure folding of proteins involved in other plant physiological functions. This work provides the first demonstration of a requirement for the ER‐QC in generating functional transmembrane receptors in plants. Recent studies reported a function for the ER‐QC in retaining mutant variants of the brassinosteroid receptor BRI1, a LRR‐RK, within the ER (CITATION; CITATION). However, in these studies, the function of wild‐type BRI1 was not affected by mutations in ER‐QC components. This is in clear contrast with our findings that mutations in a subset of ER‐QC components affect wild‐type EFR. Although most cytoplasmic nucleotide‐binding domain and LRR‐containing (NLR) immune receptors involved in effector recognition rely on the HSP90–SGT1 chaperone complex (CITATION), we propose that a subset of surface‐exposed PRRs, including EFR require one or several ER complexes comprising SDF2, ERdj3B, BiP and potentially CRT3 and UGGT for their accumulation and subcellular localisation. We speculate that as EFR is only found in the Brassicaceae, whereas FLS2 has been identified in several dicots and monocots (CITATION; CITATION), EFR may have evolved more recently than FLS2, and thus its amino‐acid sequence is less capable of folding properly in the absence of ER‐QC components. It is conceivable that evolution of new recognition specificities may result in proteins that detect novel ligands but that have not been selected for high protein stability, and thus require extra “buffering” (CITATION).
!~MM~! A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col‐0) was the background for all mutants and transgenic lines used in this study. The Arabidopsis plants used in this study were grown as one plant per pot at 20–21°C with an 10 h photoperiod, or on plates containing MS salts medium (Duchefa), 1% sucrose, and 1% agar with a 16 h photoperiod. The T‐DNA insertion lines SALK_141321 (sdf2‐2), SALK_113364 (erdj3b‐1), SALK_063999 (bip1‐1), SALK_093564 (bip1‐2), SALK_47956 (bip2‐1 gift from X Dong), bip3‐2, GABI_075D06, and SALK_024133 (bip3‐1) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (Nottingham, UK). The fls2c efr‐1 double mutant was generated by crossing fls2c (CITATION) with efr‐1 (CITATION). Primers used to genotype the T‐DNA lines are listed in Supplementary Table I. To isolate elf‐18 insensitive (elfin) plants, we screened ∼35 000 T‐DNA activation‐tagging transgenic lines (CITATION) (gift from J Molinier) and ∼137 500 EMS‐mutagenised M2 seeds (CITATION) (all in Col‐0 background). Five‐day‐old seedlings germinated on MS 1% agar plates were submerged with liquid MS 1% supplemented with 50 nM elf18. At 8 to 10 days after treatment, SGI was visually scored and putative elfin mutant plant was transferred to the soil. Progenies of ∼300 putative elfin mutants were retested in the next generation by a quantitative SGI assay, as described in CITATION). At the end, 160 elfin mutants were confirmed, including 57 that carry mutations in EFR. The genomic DNA flanking the T‐DNA insertion in the sdf2‐1 mutant was cloned using thermal asymmetric interlaced‐PCR (TAIL‐PCR), based on CITATION). To identify the erdj3b‐3 mutation, elfin plants in the Columbia‐0 (Col‐0) background were crossed to wild‐type plants of the Landsberg erecta (Ler‐0) ecotype. Genomic DNA from elfin seedlings in the segregating F2 population was extracted and used for subsequent PCR analysis. The mutation was mapped to chromosome III between the markers NGA6 and NGA112 using a set of known simple sequence length polymorphism markers (data not shown). Fine mapping delimited the mutation to a 51‐kb interval between the cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers CHIII‐23122 and CHI‐23173. Sequencing the whole region in the mutant identified a single‐nucleotide mutation in ERdj3B (At3g62600). SDF2p::SDF2‐eYFP construct was generated by PCR amplification of the SDF2 genomic fragment, including the promoter and the coding region, with 5′‐CACCAAAATTAATTTCCATGATGTAAAATTA‐3′ and 5′‐CTTGCTGCTCTCATTAAGGG‐3′ primers and resulting PCR product was cloned into the pENTRY‐D/TOPO vector using the pENTR Directional TOPO Cloning Kit (Invitrogen). The resulting clone was sequenced and the insert transferred into the GATEWAY‐compatible vector pGWB40 (CITATION) using GATEWAY LR CLONASE II enzyme (Invitrogen). The final construct was electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. SDF2p::SDF2‐3xHA construct was generated by PCR amplification of the SDF2 genomic fragment, including the promoter and the coding region, with 5′‐TACAATTGAAAATTAATTTCCATGATGTAAAATTA‐3′ and 5′‐GGATCCGAGACGCTTGCTGCTCTCATTAAGGG‐3′ primers. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the pGEMTeasy vector by the T/A ligation. The clone was sequenced. The insert was then released by digesting with MfeI and BsmBI and ligated into the epiGreenB5 binary vector digested with EcoRI and BamHI. As a result, the Pro35S::GUS cassette in epiGreenB5 was replaced with SDF2p::SDF2 producing the SDF2p::SDF2‐3xHA fusion. EFRp::EFR‐eGFP‐HA construct has been generated as following: the genomic fragment comprising the EFR promoter plus the coding region was PCR‐amplified from Col‐0 genomic DNA using 5′‐ATCCCGGGATCTAGACGATTAAGTAATTGAG‐3′ and 5′‐ATGGATCCCATAGTATGCATGTCCGTATTTA‐3′ primers, and cloned into the pGEMTeasy vector by the T/A ligation. The resulting clone was sequenced. The EFRp::EFR insert was further subcloned into the epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) vector: pGEMTeasy:EFRp::EFR clone was digested with EcoRI+SacI and SacI+BamHI in two separate reactions and the two released fragments of the insert were ligated into the epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) vector, digested with EcoRI and BamHI, using the three‐way ligation method. FLS2p::EFR‐eGFP‐HA construct has been generated as following: the FLS2 promoter was PCR‐amplified from Col‐0 genomic DNA using 5′‐ATCAATTGcccttttcggacattctaaatat‐3′ and 5′‐CATGTCGATTATAAAAAGATAAATCTATAGACGAAGTCATATGT‐3′. The EFR 5′‐UTR plus the coding region were PCR‐amplified from Col‐0 genomic DNA using 5′‐Atgacttcgtctatagatttatctttttataatcgacatgaagc‐3′ and 5′‐ATGGATCCCATAGTATGCATGTCCGTATTTA‐3′ primers. A fusion between FLS2p and EFR was created using the chimeric PCR method and the resulting PCR fragment was cloned into the pGEMTeasy vector by the T/A ligation. The resulting clone was sequenced. The FLS2p::EFR insert was further subcloned into the epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) vector: pGEMTeasy:FLS2p::EFR clone was digested with MfeI+BamHI and the released insert was ligated into the epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) vector, digested with EcoRI and BamHI. epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) was constructed as following: a PCR fragment comprising eGFP followed by a single HA tag (eGFP‐HA) was cloned into the pBin19g vector (CITATION) using BamHI and XbaI restriction enzymes to replace the single HA tag with eGFP‐HA in this vector. The resulting pBin19(eGFP‐HA) vector was digested with BamHI and HindIII enzymes, and the released fragment containing eGFP‐HA‐NOS was cloned into the epiGreenB5 vector using the same restriction enzymes. As a result, the 3xHA tag in epiGreenB5 was replaced with eGFP‐HA producing the epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA) vector. Both epiGreenB(eGFP‐HA):EFRp::EFR‐eGFP‐HA and epiGreenB5::SDF2p::SDF2‐3xHA constructs were electroporated into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 carrying the pSOUP helper plasmid. All constructs were transformed into relevant Arabidopsis mutant lines using the floral dipping method (CITATION). The transformants were selected on the MS agar medium supplemented with 10 μg/ml kanamycin in the case of SDF2p::SDF2‐eYFP and spraying soil grown seedlings with BASTA in the case of SDF2p::SDF2‐3xHA and EFRp::EFR‐eGFP‐HA. SGI and oxidative burst assays were performed as described earlier (CITATION) except that luminescence was measured using a Varioscan Flash plate reader. MAPK assays were performed as described (CITATION) using antibodies against MPK4 and MPK6 (Sigma). Bacterial assays were performed as described earlier (CITATION). Inoculations with A. brassicicola and P. cucumerina were performed as described earlier (CITATION; CITATION). For the BTH‐induced secretion of PR‐1, intercellular wash fluid was collected as described earlier (CITATION) from equal amounts of leaves treated for 24 h with water or BTH (300 μM). For BTH‐induced resistance, water or BTH (300 μM; black bars) were sprayed onto leaves from 5‐week‐old plants 24 h before infiltrating Pto DC3000 (OD600=0.0002). Bacterial populations were determined at 2 dpi. A. tumefaciens strains were grown in L medium supplemented with appropriate antibiotics overnight. Next morning cultures were spun down and resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2 to OD600=0.6. A. tumefaciens strains carrying ER‐CK (pBin20:35S::CFP‐HDEL) and pGWB40:SDF2p::SDF2‐eYFP were mixed 1:1 and syringe‐infiltrated into 3‐week‐old N. benthamiana leaves. The confocal analysis was performed at 2 dpi. Analysis of intracellular fluorescence was performed by confocal laser‐scanning microscopy on a Leica DM6000B/TCS SP5 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems CMS GmbH, Germany) using a 20 × objective. Fluorophores were excited using an argon laser at 458 nm (CFP) or 514 nm (YFP). Images were collected in the multi‐channel mode and the overlay images were generated using the Leica analysis software LAS AF1.8.2. Y2H assays were performed using MATCHMAKER LexA two‐hybrid system (Clontech). cDNAs encoding proteins tested were PCR amplified using specific primers. In all cases, the SP was omitted. The amplified PCR fragments were first cloned into the pGEMTeasy vector using the T/A ligation, sequenced and then subcloned, using restriction enzymes specified in the table, into pLexA and pB42AD vectors pre‐digested with EcoRI and XhoI. Protein–protein interactions were tested in the yeast strain EGY48 according to the manufacturer's instructions. Oligos used for cloning of SDF2, Erdj3B and BiP1 cDNAs are described in Supplementary Table III. Protein co‐immunoprecipitations were performed as described earlier (CITATION) using leaves of 5‐week‐old transgenic Arabidopsis plants using the anti‐HA affinity matrix (Roche). Immunoprecipitates were analysed by western blot with anti‐HA, anti‐ERdj3B (CITATION), anti‐SHD (CITATION), anti‐CRT (CITATION) and anti‐BiP (CITATION) antibodies (gifts from R Boston, S Nishikawa, and A Vitale). EFR‐eGFP‐HA and FLS2 were immunoprecipitated using the anti‐GFP agarose (Caltag Medsystems), and protein G sepharose (Sigma) plus anti‐FLS2 polyclonal antibodies (CITATION), respectively. The treatment with Endo H (New England Biolabs) was performed for 1 h at 37°C according to the manufacturer's instructions. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
