!~ABS~! In the Brassicaceae, compatible pollen–pistil interactions result in pollen adhesion to the stigma, while pollen grains from unrelated plant species are largely ignored. There can also be an additional layer of recognition to prevent self-fertilization, the self-incompatibility response, whereby self pollen grains are distinguished from nonself pollen grains and rejected. This pathway is activated in the stigma and involves the ARM repeat–containing 1 (ARC1) protein, an E3 ubiquitin ligase. In a screen for ARC1-interacting proteins, we have identified Brassica napus Exo70A1, a putative component of the exocyst complex that is known to regulate polarized secretion. We show through transgenic studies that loss of Exo70A1 in Brassica and Arabidopsis thaliana stigmas leads to the rejection of compatible pollen at the same stage as the self-incompatibility response. A red fluorescent protein:Exo70A1 fusion rescues this stigmatic defect in Arabidopsis and is found to be mobilized to the plasma membrane concomitant with flowers opening. By contrast, increased expression of Exo70A1 in self-incompatible Brassica partially overcomes the self pollen rejection response. Thus, our data show that the Exo70A1 protein functions at the intersection of two cellular pathways, where it is required in the stigma for the acceptance of compatible pollen in both Brassica and Arabidopsis and is negatively regulated by Brassica self-incompatibility.
!~RES~! To identify potential substrates regulated by the ARC1 E3 ligase during the Brassica self-incompatibility pathway, a pistil cDNA yeast two-hybrid library was screened and resulted in the isolation of an Exo70 homolog. In plant genomes, there are multiple predicted copies of the Exo70 gene, and the clone isolated in our study was most similar to the Arabidopsis Exo70A1 (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online; CITATION). The interaction of ARC1 with Exo70A1 was confirmed using in vitro binding assays with recombinant His6:Exo70A1:FLAG and glutathione S-transferase (GST):ARC1 fusion proteins (Figure 1 ). The Exo70A1 fusion protein bound to the Ni beads was able to bind GST:ARC1, and no signal was detected when GST was added (Figure 1A). Similarly, when GST:ARC1 or GST alone were bound to the GSH beads, the His6:Exo70A1:FLAG fusion protein was pulled down only when GST:ARC1 was present (Figure 1B). Since ARC1 has been previously shown to possess E3 ligase activity, we wanted to examine if Exo70A1 can function as a substrate for ARC1. When the His6:Exo70A1:FLAG recombinant protein was added to the ubiquitination assay containing ARC1 (as the E3 enzyme) along with the E1 and E2 enzymes, higher molecular weight laddering, indicative of polyubiquitination, was observed (Figure 1C). In comparison, the control lanes lacking either ARC1 or Exo70A1 did not show this higher molecular weight laddering (Figure 1C). Thus, both the in vitro binding and ubiquitination assays suggest that Exo70A1 can be a binding partner and a substrate for ARC1. [[FIGURE]] The isolation of Exo70A1 as an ARC1 interactor implies a previously unknown role for Exo70 in the stigma during pollen–stigma interactions. ARC1 functions in the stigma as part of the self-incompatibility response and has a positive role promoting the rejection of self pollen. It is predicted to carry out this function by targeting substrate proteins for degradation by the proteasome (CITATION, CITATION). Following from this, an ARC1 target would be predicted to be required in the stigmatic papillae to accept compatible pollen, and pollen rejection would occur when the target is inactivated. This prediction can be simply tested by removing the target, Exo70A1, from the stigma and testing if compatible pollen can still be accepted. Brassica Exo70A1 is expressed in several tissues, with highest levels of expression in the pistil and with lowest levels in stamens (Figure 2A ). Thus, to suppress B. napus Exo70A1 exclusively in the stigma, the Exo70A1 RNA interference (RNAi) construct was placed under the control of the stigma-specific SLR1 promoter (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and this construct was transformed into B. napus Westar, a fully compatible cultivar that produces full seedpods following self-pollination. Three independent transgenic Westar lines, R1 to R3, were generated and found to have reduced levels of Exo70A1 in the stigma (Figures 2B and 2C). [[FIGURE]] As expected, the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines produce flowers of wild-type appearance and viable pollen, with full seedpods observed when wild-type Westar pistils are pollinated with this pollen (Figures 2D and 2E). However, also as predicted, the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar stigmas are impaired in compatible pollen acceptance, and a corresponding reduction in seed production is observed for all three lines (Figure 2F). The Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines pollinated with compatible Westar pollen produced significantly lower means of 5.6 ± 1.6, 3.6 ± 1.4, and 3.2 ± 1.3 seeds/pod compared with 28.4 ± 0.7 seeds/pod produced by the control compatible B. napus Westar pollinations (Figure 2G). The self-incompatible B. napus W1 line was used as a control for self pollen rejection with the ensuing absence of seed production (CITATION, CITATION). These results show that Brassica Exo70A1 plays an essential role in the stigma during compatible pollen–stigma interactions. Based on Exo70A1's essential role in the stigma for compatible pollinations and its ability to interact with and function as a substrate for ARC1, we hypothesized that one way through which ARC1 imparts its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity during self-incompatibility is by targeting Exo70A1 for degradation. If this were true, then elevation of Exo70A1 levels in a self-incompatible line may overcome the pollen rejection response by essentially titrating out ARC1's activity. This prediction was tested by expressing a red fluorescent protein (RFP):Exo70A1 (B. napus Exo70A1) construct under the control of the stigma-specific SLR1 promoter in the self-incompatible B. napus W1 line. The B. napus W1 line is identified by the presence of the self-incompatibility S910 allele through PCR detection of the SRK910 gene (CITATION; CITATION), and two independent transgenic RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines, S1 and S2, were generated (Figures 3A and 3B ). Consistent with this hypothesis, the S1 and S2 plants had increased seed production following pollination with self-incompatible W1 pollen than did the control self-pollinated W1 plants (Figure 3C). The RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines produced averages of 3.4 ± 0.81 and 2.8 ± 0.97 seeds/pods when pollinated with W1 pollen, which was significantly higher than the self-incompatible W1 control, which did not produce any seeds (Figure 3D). All the control compatible pollinations with Westar as the pollen donor for W1, S1, and S2 pistils produced full seedpods, as expected (Figures 3C and 3D). Thus, the increased levels of Exo70A1 were able to titrate out ARC1's activity and partially overcome the self-incompatibility phenotype of W1 plants. [[FIGURE]] We attempted to visualize the RFP:Exo70A1 protein in the B. napus S1 and S2 lines using confocal microscopy but were unable to detect RFP through the dense Brassica stigmatic papillae. The presence of the RFP:Exo70A1 protein in the stigma was confirmed by immunoblot analysis, using an anti-RFP antibody, prior to and after pollination following either W1 and Westar pollinations (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). While activation of the self-incompatibility pathway leading to ARC1-mediated degradation of Exo70A1 would be predicted to reduce Exo70A1 protein levels following W1 pollinations, no clear decrease in Exo70A1 protein levels was observed after pollination (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, this would be difficult to detect, given the increased levels of Exo70A1 in the S1 and S2 lines; in addition, this predicted effect would only occur in a small subset of the stigmatic cells, the stigmatic papillae in contact with pollen. With the establishment of the biological function of Exo70A1in Brassica stigmas, following pollination, we then investigated the cellular function of Exo70A1 in these responses. Pollen–stigma interactions in the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines and the RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines were observed more closely to examine pollen hydration and pollen tube penetration through the stigmatic surface (Figures 4 and 5 ). During control compatible B. napus Westar pollinations, the pollen grains rapidly hydrated within 4 min and continued to increase in diameter up to 10 min following pollination (Figures 4A to 4C). By contrast, in the control self-incompatible B. napus W1 pollinations, the pollen grains displayed very poor hydration due to the activated self-incompatibility pathway in the stigmatic papillae (Figures 4A, 4H, and 4I). Interestingly, Westar pollen on the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar stigmas (R1 to R3) exhibited significantly reduced hydration (Figures 4A, 4F, and 4G). By contrast, W1 pollen on the RFP:Exo70A1 W1 stigmas (S1 and S2) show significant increases in hydration (Figures 4A, 4D, and 4E). Thus, decreasing the levels of Exo70A1 in Westar stigmas resulted in reduced pollen hydration in comparison to the Westar compatible control while increasing Exo70A1 in W1 stigmas resulted in increased pollen hydration in comparison to the W1 self-incompatible control. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] These results were also confirmed when aniline blue–stained, pollinated pistils were observed for pollen germination and pollen tube growth (Figure 5). At 2 h after pollination, control compatible B. napus Westar pistils had a large number of pollen grains adhered to the stigma, and these pollen grains had germinated and produced pollen tubes that penetrated the stigmatic surface (Figure 5B). By contrast, control self-incompatible B. napus W1 pistils did not have any pollen grains present (as expected) since the rejected pollen had failed to adhere and were washed away during the aniline blue staining (Figure 5A). Significantly, and in contrast with the control pollinations, the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar stigmas had very few Westar pollen grains present (Figures 5C and 5D), and the RFP:Exo70A1 W1 stigmas had a number of W1 pollen grains adhering to the stigmatic surface (Figures 5E, 5F, and 5M). Some of the pollen adhering to RFP:Exo70A1 W1 stigmas had germinated to produce pollen tubes (Figures 5E and 5F). Thus, changes in Exo70A1 levels have a dramatic effect on pollen hydration and germination, affecting one of the earliest stages known to be blocked by the Brassica self-incompatibility response. In addition to blocking pollen hydration, the Brassica self-incompatibility response can also block any pollen tubes, emerging from hydrated pollen grains, from penetrating the stigmatic surface. To investigate whether Exo70A1 has a role in this latter stage, pollen–stigma interactions in the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines and the RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines were again examined at 8 h after pollination. While the W1 and Westar controls (Figures 5G and 5H) remain unchanged compared with 2 h after pollination (Figures 5A and 5B), Westar pollen on the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar stigmas were eventually able to germinate (perhaps due to incomplete RNAi suppression) and produce pollen tubes (Figures 5I and 5J). However, the pollen tubes appeared quite stunted and were blocked from penetrating the stigmatic surface (Figures 5I and 5J). The RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines also had a number of self-incompatible W1 pollen that gave rise to stunted pollen tubes (Figures 5K and 5L). Thus, Exo70A1 is also required for successful pollen tube penetration through the stigmatic cell wall, and reducing Exo70A1 levels in the stigma prevents the penetration of compatible Westar pollen tubes. Furthermore, the overexpression of RFP:Exo70A1 was not able to completely break down this stage of the self-incompatibility response, although some pollen tubes successfully penetrated the stigmatic surface to produce seeds as shown in Figures 3C and 3D. Having established a critical role of B. napus Exo70A1 in Brassica pollen–stigma interactions, its role was also examined in Arabidopsis, a self-fertile species in the Brassicaeae. The putative ortholog for B. napus Exo70A1 is Arabidopsis Exo70A1 (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online). Transgenic Arabidopsis lines carrying an Arabidopsis Exo70A1proGUS (for β-glucuronidase) construct displayed GUS expression in several tissues (see Supplemental Figure 3E online) and, interestingly, have strong GUS activity in the stigma of mature flowers (Figure 6A ). This is a typical expression profile for genes that are active in the stigma during pollen–stigma interactions. Null mutants for Arabidopsis Exo70A1 were previously shown to be slow-growing, semidwarf plants with an extended life span and defects in organ morphogenesis and fertility (CITATION). To examine the pollen–stigma interactions in the Arabidopsis exo70A1 mutants more closely, two independent T-DNA insertion lines as previously reported by CITATION were isolated (see Supplemental Figures 3A to 3D online). While CITATION reported that the Arabidopsis exo70A1 mutant stigmas were immature in appearance at flower bud opening (stage 13; CITATION), we found that this was variable and that elongated stigmatic papillae could be observed (Figure 6G; see Supplemental Figures 3D, 4D, and 4E online). When individual wild-type Arabidopsis pollen grains were placed on wild-type stigmatic papillae, 91% of the pollen grains were fully hydrated, as shown in Figure 6B. Conversely, elongated stigmatic papillae from the exo70A1 mutant lines failed to support wild-type pollen hydration. Only 45% of the wild-type pollen placed on the exo70A1 stigmatic papillae showed any hydration, with these pollen grains being only partially hydrated (Figure 6C). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the loss of pollen hydration was correlated with the loss of Exo70A1, heterozygous exo70A1-1 Arabidopsis plants were transformed with the SLR1proRFP:Exo70A1 (B. napus Exo70A1) construct, and two independent lines (S4 and S14) of homozygous exo70A1-1 mutants expressing RFP:Exo70A1 in the stigma were recovered (Figures 6D and 6E). Detailed pollination studies were then performed on stigmas from Columbia-0 (Col-0), the exo70A1 mutant, and the S4 and S14 plants transformed with the RFP:Exo70A1 construct with aniline blue staining, which is used to detect pollen tubes. As expected for the self-fertile Col-0 control, the stigmas were covered with adhered pollen grains and numerous pollen tubes could be detected (Figures 6F and 6I; see Supplemental Figure 4C online). By contrast, when wild-type Col-0 pollen were used to pollinate the Arabidopsis exo70A1 mutant stigmas, the pollen were largely rejected with very few pollen grains detected following aniline blue staining (Figures 6G and 6I; see Supplemental Figures 4D and 4E online). While the exo70A1 mutant showed variability in papillar elongation, there was no adherance of compatible pollen, regardless of whether papillae were short or elongated (Figures 6G; see Supplemental Figures 4D and 4E online). The expression of the RFP:Exo70A1 fusion protein in the exo70A1-1 mutant stigmas fully restored the ability of compatible wild-type Col-0 pollen to adhere to the exo70A1 stigmas and produce pollen tubes (S14/exo70A1-1; Figures 6H and 6I; see Supplemental Figures 4G and 4H online). Both the control Col-0 and the rescued S14/exo70A1-1 pollinated pistils produced large numbers of seeds per silique, while no seeds were detected in the exo70A1 siliques pollinated with Col-0 pollen (Figures 6J and 6K). Thus, the Brassica and Arabidopsis Exo70A1 share conserved functions in the stigma, namely, promoting pollen hydration and pollen tube growth of compatible pollen, and loss of Exo70A1 produces a phenotype that is correlated with the Brassica self-incompatibility response. Having established that RFP:Exo70A1 (B. napus Exo70A1) can rescue the stigmatic defect in the Arabidopsis exo70A1 mutants, we then examined where the RFP:Exo70A1 is localized in the stigma during pollinations. As the Arabidopsis stigmatic papillae are smaller and less dense than those of Brassica, the RFP fluorescence from the elongated papillae could readily be visualized in these lines using confocal microscopy. Segregating progeny from heterozygous exo70A1-1 Arabidopsis plants transformed with the RFP:Exo70A1 construct were genotyped to identify both the wild type (S14/Col-0) and homozygous mutant (S14/exo70A1-1) (Figure 7 ). Confocal imaging of unpollinated S14/Col-0 stigmas revealed RFP fluorescence localized to the plasma membrane of stigmatic papillae from freshly opened flowers (stage 13; Figures 7A and 7B). Interestingly, the plasma membrane localization of RFP:Exo70A1 is only achieved at maturity as an examination of stigmas from unopened flower buds (stage 12) revealed RFP fluorescence localized to internal punctate structures, a staining pattern reminiscent of Golgi (Figure 7C) (CITATION). In other systems, Exo70 functions as a spatial landmark at the plasma membrane for the assembly of the exocyst complex, which in turn tethers secretory vesicles for exocytosis (CITATION). Thus, the plasma membrane localization of RFP:Exo70A1 in mature stigmatic papillae is consistent with Exo70 functioning as a spatial landmark. The localization of RFP:Exo70A1 was also examined in S14/exo70A1-1, and RFP:Exo70A1 was found to localize to the plasma membrane, though to a lesser extent than for S14/Col-0 with some internal punctate structures remaining (Figure 7D). Since the SLR1 promoter was used to drive the expression of RFP:Exo70A1 in the exo70A1 homozygous mutants, only the stigmatic fertility defect is fully restored in these plants (Figure 6). The overall growth defect remains in these plants (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 3C online) and may be related to some of the RFP:Exo70A1 remaining within the cells. [[FIGURE]] The plasma membrane localization of RFP:Exo70A1 was verified by crossing the S14/Col-0 line to a green fluorescent protein (GFP):δ-TIP vacuolar marker line, since the vacuolar membrane can often be in close proximity to the plasma membrane in stigmatic papillae (Figure 7E; see Supplemental Figure 5A online). The green fluorescence from the GFP:δ-TIP marker outlines the membranes of the central vacuole as well as the apical vacuolar network (previously described in CITATION). Figure 7E shows a tip of a stigmatic papilla where the GFP fluorescence from the vacuolar membranes are distinct from the plasma membrane–localized RFP:Exo70A1. Furthermore, the S14/Col-0 line was crossed to a ST:GFP Golgi marker line to examine the Golgi-like RFP:Exo70A1 punctate structures in immature stigmatic papillae, and colocalization was observed, indicating that these structures are Golgi (Figure 7F; see Supplemental Figures 5C to 5E online). Finally, the RFP:Exo70A1 localization pattern was examined following compatible pollinations in the wild-type S14/Col-0 stigmatic papillae. After several minutes, we consistently observed that the RFP fluorescence disappeared from the plasma membrane in stigmatic papillae that were in contact with Col-0 pollen. Examples of this are shown in Figures 7G and 7H, where at 8 and 10 min after pollination, the RFP:Exo70A1 cannot be detected in the plasma membrane of stigmatic papillae that are in contact with the pollen grains, while the neighboring unpollinated stigmatic papillae appear to be unchanged. Thus, there are substantial changes in the subcellular distribution of RFP:Exo70A1 following a compatible pollination. Given the critical role of Exo70A1 in the stigmatic papillae in the early stages following compatible pollinations, Exo70A1 would be an effective target for the self-incompatibility pathway to promote pollen rejection. Given ARC1's activity as an E3 ligase, its ability to bind and ubiquitinate Exo70A1, and the fact that ARC1 localizes to the proteasome in BY-2 suspension cells in the presence of active SRK (CITATION), we tested whether ARC1 could target Brassica Exo70A1 to the proteasome. Constructs generated with different epitope tags at the N terminus of each protein (Figure 8A ) were transiently expressed in BY-2 cells and followed by fluorescence microscopy to determine subcellular localization patterns. Both GFP:ARC1 and RFP:Exo70A1, as well as the RFP control, were predominantly distributed throughout the cytosol when expressed either alone or together (Figures 8B to 8K). When a constitutively active SRK kinase domain was added as a GST:kinase fusion, there was no effect on the RFP control (Figures 8L and 8M), but a redistribution of both ARC1 and Exo70A1 to punctate structures generally around the perinuclear region was observed (Figures 8N to 8R). A similar pattern was also seen when Arabidopsis Exo70A1 was coexpressed with ARC1 and GST:SRK (Figures 8S to 8W). The proteasomal subunit, RPT2A, was found to colocalize to these punctate structures with Exo70A1 (Figures 9A to 9D ), and this pattern overlapped with the Concanavalin A marker for the endoplasmic reticulum (Figures 9E to 9H). Two endosomal markers were also tested; Syp21, a marker for the late endosome/prevacuolar compartment, and Syp42, which resides in the trans-Golgi network (CITATION; CITATION). While Syp42 did not colocalize with the Exo70A1/ARC1 subcellular structures (Figure 9P), there was some overlap with the Syp21 marker (Figure 9H). Thus, these results suggest that SRK triggers the relocalization of both ARC1 and Exo70A1 to endoplasmic reticulum–associated proteasomes and that there may be some association between the ARC1 and Exo70A1 proteins with the late endosome/prevacuolar compartment. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To identify potential substrates regulated by ARC1, different domains of ARC1 were used to screen a pistil cDNA yeast two-hybrid library as previously described (CITATION), and a single positive interaction was isolated with the ARC1 N-terminal domain (which is thought to serve as a potential substrate binding domain; CITATION). Using BLAST searches at the National Center for Biotechnology Information and The Arabidopsis Information Resource, the Brassica napus cDNA was predicted to encode a protein with sequence similarity to Exo70s and was named Exo70A1 due to its highest sequence similarity to Arabidopsis thaliana Exo70A1 (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online). The amino acid sequence alignment of B. napus Exo70A1 to Arabidopsis Exo70A1 was generated from the BLAST searches and edited manually. For in vitro binding studies, His6:Exo70A1:FLAG (B. napus Exo70A1) and GST:ARC1 fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3)pLysS cells and purified using Ni-NTA agarose beads (Novagen) or GSH agarose beads (Sigma-Aldrich), respectively, as previously described (CITATION). Binding assays were set up using 0.5 μg of His6:Exo70A1:FLAG and 0.3 μg of either GST or GST:ARC1 as previously described. Protein gel blot analyses were performed using rabbit anti-ARC1, mouse anti-His (Novagen), mouse anti-FLAG (Sigma-Aldrich), or rabbit anti-GST (Santa Cruz) primary antibodies and anti-rabbit or anti-mouse secondary antibodies (KPL), followed by detection with the Enhanced Chemiluminescence Detection Kit (GE Amersham). Ubiquitination of purified His6:Exo70A1:FLAG protein by GST:ARC1 was performed as previously described (CITATION) using the Arabidopsis E2 enzyme, UBC7, and the yeast E1 enzyme. The ubiquitination assays were fractionated on a 7% SDS-PAGE gel followed by protein gel blot analysis using anti-FLAG antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich). B. napus transgenic lines were created as previously described (CITATION). For the Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines, PCR was used to tailor a double-stranded RNAi construct (CITATION), using the N-terminal 678 nucleotides of the B. napus Exo70A1 open reading frame, behind the strong stigma-specific SLR1 promoter (CITATION; CITATION). The binary vector p1665 containing the SLR1 promoter was digested with SmaI and BamHI to ligate the RNAi construct (for primers, refer to Supplemental Table 1 online). Kanamycin-positive primary transformants were analyzed for reduced Exo70A1 expression by RNA gel blot analysis as previously described (CITATION). These lines were also analyzed for pollen adhesion, pollen tube growth, and seed set as described previously (CITATION). The R2 and R3 Exo70A1 RNAi Westar lines were analyzed in the T2 generation as well, and they displayed the same pollen rejection traits observed in the T1 plants. Pollinations for aniline blue staining were performed as previously described (CITATION). The aniline blue fluorescence was captured as gray-scale images, colored green, and overlaid with the red autofluorescence obtained from pollen. For the hydration experiments, pedicels of newly opened flowers were immersed in water and pollen grains (6 to 10) were added on the top of the stigma. Pollen hydration was tracked using a LeicaMZ16 stereomicroscope, and images were captured from a polar view for 10 min using a Leica camera with the LAS v.2.5.OR1 program. These images were processed through ImageJ to measure the principal diameter of the pollen grains during the hydration process. For the RFP:Exo70A1 W1 lines, the B. napus Exo70A1 open reading frame fused to RFP was subcloned behind a binary vector containing the SLR1 promoter and transformed into W1 plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Transgenic lines were screened and analyzed as described above. Expression was analyzed by RT-PCR using primers to specifically detect the RFP:Exo70A1 mRNA, and actin was used as a positive control. For RT-PCR, total RNA was isolated from the stigmas from various transgenic and control plants and used to synthesize cDNA through oligo(dT)-mediated reverse transcription. From this, 1 μL of cDNA was used for PCR using gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). RT-PCR products were visualized using ethidium bromide. Confocal microscopy was also used to examine the localization pattern of RFP:Exo70A1, but the expression levels were not high enough to visualize the RFP fluorescence in the dense Brassica stigmatic papillae. The same construct gave successful confocal results in the more transparent Arabidopsis stigmatic papillae (see below). For protein gel blotting using anti-RFP antibodies, stigmatic proteins were extracted from either unpollinated or pollinated pistils from the transgenic RFP:Exo70A1 W1 S1 line, and pollinations were performed with either self-incompatible W1 pollen or compatible Westar pollen. Protein extracts were fractionated on a 7% SDS-PAGE gel and probed with anti-RFP antibodies. Two SALK T-DNA insertion lines for Exo70A1 were analyzed as shown in Supplemental Figures 3A to 3D online. These lines were previously reported by CITATION as having defects in the elongation of stigmatic papillae in flowers from 8-week-old plants. We observed that the stigmas showed variability in stigmatic papillar elongation at flower bud opening (see Supplemental Figures 4D and 4E online) and found that the exo70A1 mutants would produce more fully elongated stigmatic papillae when the plants were misted daily. For the pollen hydration studies, stage 12 flowers from Col-0 plants were emasculated and covered with plastic wrap overnight to allow flower development to stage 13 (CITATION). For the exo70A1-1 plants, the largest buds (which would roughly represent stage 12 flowers) were emasculated and left overnight, and stigmas with elongated papillae were used for the hydration studies. Since the exo70A1-1 plants are sterile, pistils from open flowers were also tested, yielding the same results. Pistils were excised and mounted on a microscope slide using double-sided tape. An individual Col-0 pollen grain was placed on a stigmatic papilla using a Sisikiyou Designs 7600 micromanipulator. The pollen grain was then monitored using an inverted Olympus IX51 microscope with a ×10 objective, and images were acquired with a CCD camera (Roper Scientific) using ImageMaster. Pollinations were conducted under low-humidity conditions (relative humidity below 35%, as monitored with a digital hygrometer [VWR 35519-044]; n = 11). The SLR1proRFP:Exo70A1 (B. napus Exo70A1) construct was used to transform heterozygous Exo70A1/exo70A1-1 Arabidopsis plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). The segregating T0 seeds were selected on kanamycin and genotyped to isolate wild-type and exo70 A1-1 mutant plants expressing RFP:Exo70A1. Two of the strongest lines, S4 and S14, were used to analyze the rescue of pollen adherence, pollen tube growth, and seed set following pollination with wild-type Col-0 pollen. Controlled pollinations were performed using pistils from Col-0, exo70A1-1, and RFP:Exo70A1/exo70A1-1 plants to assess pollen adhesion, pollen tube growth, and seed set using Col-0 pollen. Stage 12 flowers were emasculated and covered with plastic wrap for 24 h, hand-pollinated with Col-0 pollen, and rewrapped again in plastic wrap for 24 h. For pollen adhesion and pollen tube growth studies, the pistils were then stained with aniline blue and observed with an epifluorescence microscope. For seed production, the coverings were removed, and the siliques were allowed to mature (10 to 12 d). Mature siliques were opened, and seeds/fertilized ovules were counted. For the staining of Arabidopsis Col-0 and exo70A1-1 pistils with FM1-43, stage 11 flowers from Col-0 and exo70A1-1 plants were emasculated and covered with a plastic wrap for a 16-h period. The prepared pistils were mounted in half-strength Murashige and Skoog buffer containing FM1-43 (1 μg/μL) followed by confocal imaging using an LSM510 (Carl Zeiss) Zeiss 63X Plan-Apochromat oil-immersion objective. For the confocal microscopy of wild-type and exo70A1-1 plants expressing RFP:Exo70A1, the flowers were emasculated similarly, left for various lengths of time, mounted in Vectashield mounting medium (Vector Laboratories; H-1000), and observed using an LSM510 (Carl Zeiss) 40× oil-immersion objective. For postpollination experiments, stigmas were pollinated with Col-0 pollen prior to mounting and viewing. Arabidopsis GFP marker lines for the Golgi, vacuole, and plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION) were crossed with the RFP:Exo70A1 S14/Col-0 plants to obtain lines with both the GFP-marked compartment and RFP:Exo70A1. A 2.5-kb sequence upstream of the Arabidopsis Exo70A1 coding region was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA and placed in front of the GUS coding sequence of the plant expression vector pCAMBIA1391Z. This construct was mobilized into Agrobacterium GV3101, followed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of wild-type Col-0 plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). The hygromycin-resistant transformants were screened for GUS expression at various growth stages. In brief, tissues were infiltrated with GUS buffer for 20 min, followed by incubation for 1 h at 37°C. The samples were then washed in 100% ethanol, mounted with a 8:2:1 mixture of chloral hydrate:water:glycerol, and viewed under a LeicaMZ16 stereomicroscope. Biolistic-mediated transformation of log-phase BY-2 suspension-cultured cells was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). Single transformations were performed with a total of 10 μg of purified plasmid DNA, and cobombardments used 10 to 15 μg of total plasmids combined (with equal quantities of each plasmid). Following transformations, BY-2 cells were left in the dark and then harvested at 20 h postbombardment, fixed, and either visualized directly for fluorescent proteins or treated with antibodies to detect epitope-tagged proteins as described (CITATION; CITATION). Constructs used are shown in Figure 8. Full-length ARC1 was fused to myc or GFP, while full-length Exo70A1 was fused to RFP or GFP, and GST:SRKA14 was used as previously described (CITATION). Full-length RPT2A was amplified from Arabidopsis leaf cDNA and cloned as an RFP fusion. RFP:RPT2A is a proteasomal ATPase subunit. The ER marker, Concanavalin A-594 conjugate (Molecular Probes), was used at a final concentration of 100 μg/mL for the colocalization experiments. The Syp21 and Syp42 marker plasmids are from CITATION. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: B. napus Exo70A1 (GQ503256) and Arabidopsis Exo70A1 (NM_001125690; At5g03540). M.A.S., Y.T.C., K.E.H., and D.R.G. conceived and designed the experiments. M.A.S., Y.T.C., K.E.H., M.G.B., and S.L.S. performed the experiments. M.A.S., Y.T.C., K.E.H., and D.R.G. analyzed the data and wrote the manuscript. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Amino Acid Alignments of Brassica napus Exo70A1 to Different Mmembers of the Arabidopsis Exo70 Gene Family. Supplemental Figure 2. RFP:Exo70A1 Protein Levels Following Self-Incompatible W1 and Compatible Westar Pollinations. Supplemental Figure 3. Arabidopsis exo70A1 T-DNA Insertional Lines. Supplemental Figure 4. Unpollinated and Pollinated Stigmas from Arabidopsis Col-0, the exo70A1-1 Mutant, and the Rescued exo70A1-1 Mutant Line Expressing RFP:Exo70A1. Supplemental Figure 5. Transgenic Arabidopsis Lines Expressing Different GFP Marker Proteins in the Stigma. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study.
