!~ABS~! Receptor-mediated sorting processes in the secretory pathway of eukaryotic cells rely on mechanisms to recycle the receptors after completion of transport. Based on this principle, plant vacuolar sorting receptors (VSRs) are thought to recycle after dissociating of receptor–ligand complexes in a pre-vacuolar compartment. This recycling is mediated by retromer, a cytosolic coat complex that comprises sorting nexins and a large heterotrimeric subunit. To analyse retromer-mediated VSR recycling, we have used a combination of immunoelectron and fluorescence microscopy to localize the retromer components sorting nexin 1 (SNX1) and sorting nexin 2a (SNX2a) and the vacuolar sorting protein VPS29p. All retromer components localize to the trans-Golgi network (TGN), which is considered to represent the early endosome of plants. In addition, we show that inhibition of retromer function in vivo by expression of SNX1 or SNX2a mutants as well as transient RNAi knockdown of all sorting nexins led to accumulation of the VSR BP80 at the TGN. Quantitative protein transport studies and live-cell imaging using fluorescent vacuolar cargo molecules revealed that arrival of these VSR ligands at the vacuole is not affected under these conditions. Based on these findings, we propose that the TGN is the location of retromer-mediated recycling of VSRs, and that transport towards the lytic vacuole downstream of the TGN is receptor-independent and occurs via maturation, similar to transition of the early endosome into the late endosome in mammalian cells.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis sorting nexins SNX1, SNX2a and SNX2b possess a PX domain and two coiled-coil regions constituting BAR domains at the C-terminus (Figure S1c). SNX1 has a shorter N-terminal domain, reducing the overall sequence similarity to only approximately 33% (see Figure S1b). Nevertheless, there is a high degree of homology in their PX and BAR domains. To characterize the Arabidopsis sorting nexins, we have cloned SNX1, SNX2a and SNX2b and generated fluorescently tagged fusions for in vivo imaging studies. When co-expressed with the cis-Golgi marker Man1–RFP (Nebenfuhr et al., 1999) in protoplasts from cultured Arabidopsis cells, SNX2a–GFP gave rise to punctate signals that did not overlap with the Golgi signals (Figure 1a–c), and only a minority of these signals were adjacent to each other (approximately 7%, see Figure S2b). When SNX2a–GFP was co-expressed with the TGN marker YFP–SYP61 (CITATION; CITATION), approximately 90% of the signals overlapped (see Figure S2b), indicating a TGN localization for SNX2a (Figure 1d–f). SNX1 has the same subcellular distribution as the signals co-localize with SNX2a (Figure 1g). However, some SNX2a structures appear to lack SNX1. Co-expression of SNX1–mKate and the PVC marker ARA6–RFP resulted in virtually no overlap of signals, indicating that SNX1 is not localized to the PVC (Figure 1h). In contrast, there was a small degree of overlap with the Man1–GFP signal (Figure 1i). In tobacco protoplasts, SNX2a–GFP gave a more cytosolic and less punctate pattern, and these punctate signals overlapped with YFP–SYP61 rather than Man1–RFP (Figure S3a,b). As in Arabidopsis protoplasts, signals for the two sorting nexins co-localized, but SNX2a–GFP and ARA6–RFP did not show any overlap (Figure S3c,d). [[FIGURE]] To ascertain the location of endogenous sorting nexins, we generated a polyclonal antibody using two peptides that are present in the N-terminal domain of SNX2a but not in SNX2b or SNX1 (Figure S4a). Accordingly, this antibody was specific for SNX2a and did not cross-react with either SNX2b or SNX1 (Figure S4b). As protoplasts cannot be permeabilized without bursting, we first performed immunofluorescence on roots from transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing fluorescent markers for Golgi (ST–YFP, CITATION), TGN (VHA-a1–RFP, CITATION) and PVC (ARA7–GFP, CITATION). No overlap of signals was observed with ARA7–GFP (Figure 2a), but a close association between the SNX2a immunosignal and the ST–YFP signal was seen (Figure 2b). We also observed an almost perfect co-localization of VHA-a1–RFP and SNX2a (Figure 2c). In addition, SNX2a immunofluorescence on transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing markers either for the PVC (GFP–BP80), the Golgi (GONST1–YFP) or the TGN (SCAMP1–YFP) was performed. There was no overlap between SNX2a and GFP–BP80, and only a partial overlap (approximately 12%, see Figure S2b) with the Golgi signals (Figure S3e,f). In contrast, there was an almost perfect overlap (approximately 92%, see Figure S2b) with the TGN signals (Figure S3g). [[FIGURE]] For immunogold electron microscopy (IEM), we used root tips of Arabidopsis and tobacco because structural preservation by high-pressure freezing is better with this tissue than with the more highly vacuolated BY-2 cells. IEM using SNX2a antibodies was specific, with virtually no background labelling (Figure 2d–f). Gold particles were present at the trans face of Golgi stacks in both Arabidopsis and tobacco roots (Figure 2d,f). In addition, gold particles decorated numerous vesicles in the core of the brefeldin A (BFA) compartment (Figure 2e), which is an aggregate of TGN- and endosomal-derived membranes formed in response to BFA treatment (CITATION). In contrast, multi-vesicular bodies (PVCs) were not labelled with SNX2a immunogold. We also re-investigated the distribution of the large subunit of retromer by monitoring for VPS29. We therefore performed immunofluorescence analyses with VPS29p antibodies (CITATION) in tobacco BY-2 cells as well as IEM on Arabidopsis and tobacco roots. In contrast to previous observations on BY-2 cells (CITATION), we saw no overlap with the PVC marker GFP–BP80, and only a partial overlap with the Golgi marker GONST1–YFP (Figure 3a,b). However, we did observe a perfect overlap of VPS29p immunofluorescence and SCAMP1–YFP fluorescence (Figure 3c). As was the case with SNX2a, IEM of VPS29p in both Arabidopsis and tobacco roots showed TGN localization, with no label on multi-vesicular PVCs (Figure 3d,f). Similarly, this antigen also localized to the core of the BFA compartment (Figure 3e). Together, the confocal laser scanning microscopy and IEM data obtained for both Arabidopsis and tobacco provide unequivocal evidence that the sorting nexins and the large subunit of retromer locate to the TGN rather than the PVC. [[FIGURE]] The most certain way of determining the location of endogenous BP80-type VSRs in the cell is by immunological methods, e.g. IEM. However, a BP80 construct consisting of GFP fused to the transmembrane domain and cytosolic tail of BP80 (GFP–BP80) has been used on a number of occasions to visualize the steady-state distribution of endogenous VSRs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This truncated reporter contains the trafficking motifs of the wild-type VSR and can compete for transport with endogenous receptors (CITATION), making it a useful tool to monitor VSR transport. In addition, the distribution of this reporter construct faithfully reflects the location of endogenous VSRs as shown by IEM with BP80 antibodies in tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION). In tobacco BY-2 cells, BP80 locates almost exclusively to the multi-vesicular PVC, and has proved to be a reliable marker for this organelle (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, in stably transformed Arabidopsis lines, YFP–BP80 localized to both wortmannin-responsive structures and the BFA compartment (CITATION). As the GFP–BP80 signals in BY-2 cells were sensitive only to wortmannin, we surmised that GFP–BP80 is not restricted to the PVC in Arabidopsis root cells. To test this, we performed IEM on roots of Arabidopsis and tobacco. In both cases, gold label was detected at the trans-Golgi/TGN, but also at multi-vesiculate PVCs (Figure 4). BP80 label was always situated at the periphery of the PVC, and, under the same labelling conditions, the PVC in root cells of Arabidopsis was generally more conspicuously labelled than the PVC in tobacco root cells. [[FIGURE]] To analyse the function of the two sorting nexins in vivo, we prepared sorting nexin mutants that lacked either the coiled-coil domains (SNX1-ΔCC and SNX2a-ΔCC), in order to prevent membrane deformation and thus the formation of retromer-coated vesicles, or the N-terminal domain (SNX1-ΔN and SNX2-ΔN), in order to inhibit interaction with the large retromer subunit and thus packaging of cargo into these vesicles (Figure S1c). To avoid possible steric hindrance caused by a fluorescence tag, and to ensure that the sorting nexin mutants were still able to interact with the large retromer unit (SNX–ΔCC) or with another sorting nexin (SNX–ΔN) and with the endosomal membrane via their PX domain, we used untagged mutants in these experiments. This is justified, because the rate of co-transfection of various plasmids via electroporation was extremely high. When two plasmids encoding fluorescent proteins were co-transfected, 94% of the transformed cells expressed both proteins, and triple co-transfection yielded only a slightly reduced rate, with 76% of the transformed cells expressing all three proteins (Figure S2a). When tobacco leaf protoplasts were transfected with standard PVC (GFP–BP80) and Golgi (Man1–RFP) markers, we obtained separate signals in approximately 85% of the protoplasts and adjacent/co-localizing signals in only 15% (see Figure S2c for statistical analysis) (Figure 5a,d). This situation was unchanged when wild-type sorting nexins were co-expressed (data not shown). In contrast, when the ΔN mutant of SNX1 or SNX2a was expressed, the Golgi and PVC signals became closely associated (Figure 5b,e). The same effect was observed when the ΔCC mutant of SNX1 or SNX2a was expressed (Figure 5c,f). In contrast to the control, all sorting nexin mutants changed the distribution of the Golgi and PVC markers to approximately 60% immediately adjacent/co-localized signals, with only approximately 40% of the signals remaining separate from each other (Figure S2c). Thus, a significant difference in the percentage of overlapping signals was observed between control and mutant protoplasts. This raised the question of whether the mutants caused leakage of the Golgi marker to a post-Golgi (presumably PVC) location or trapping of the PVC marker at the Golgi. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the identity of the compartments showing partially overlapping Man1–RFP and GFP–BP80 signals as a result of expression of mutant sorting nexins, we treated protoplasts at the end of the expression period with either wortmannin or BFA. The former inhibitor causes the PVC to swell, yielding a ring-like structure (CITATION; CITATION), while BFA in tobacco but not Arabidopsis, results in a redistribution of Golgi membranes into the ER (CITATION; CITATION). These effects were confirmed in controls expressing only the marker proteins (Figure 5g,j), and were also observed when wild-type SNX was expressed (data not shown). However, whereas wortmannin had no effect on the punctate signals of GFP–BP80 or Man1–RFP in either of the two mutant expression samples (Figure 5h,i), BFA caused the Man1–RFP signals to assume an ER-like distribution in each case (Figure 5k,l). In contrast, only a portion of the GFP–BP80 signal shifted to the ER, with the rest remaining punctuate, indicating that it is localized to a part of the Golgi apparatus that is BFA-insensitive, which, in tobacco, can only be the TGN (CITATION). These results show that expression of sorting nexin mutants causes the vacuolar receptor BP80 to accumulate in the Golgi apparatus/TGN rather than Golgi enzymes being transported forward into the PVC. As expression of the sorting nexin mutants caused GFP–BP80 to redistribute into the TGN, we wondered whether, under these circumstances, PVCs were still present. To answer this question, we first expressed the PVC marker ARA6–RFP (CITATION) together with GFP–BP80 and either the SNX2a-ΔCC or SNX2a-ΔN mutants. In both cases, there was a clear separation of fluorescent signals caused by the mutants (Figure 6e–g,i–k) compared with the controls (Figure 6a–c). Based on the assumption that ARA6–RFP is a bona fide marker for the PVC, which is recruited from the cytosol onto the membrane, this observation provides evidence for the continued presence of PVCs. In control protoplasts, approximately 88% co-localization between the two PVC markers was observed, with 15–21% still co-localized after SNX2a mutant expression (Figure S2d). In a second approach, we expressed an RNAi construct to induce post-translational gene silencing of the SNXs. This construct was directed against the first CC domain of SNX2a (see Figure S1c), but was also expected to affect the other two sorting nexins, due to the high degree of similarity within this domain (Figure S1a,b). To avoid non-specific silencing of other CC domain-containing proteins, a BLAST search against the Arabidopsis genome database was performed, but, apart from a chloroplast-localized protein of unknown function (At5g37050), no further homologous sequences were found. Expression of this RNAi construct led to a dramatic loss of detectable SNX2a in both Arabidopsis and tobacco protoplasts (Figure S5). However, the same phenotype was obtained as when SNX mutants were expressed: a separation of the GFP–BP80 and ARA6–RFP signals (Figure 6m–o; see Figure S2d for statistical analysis). Thus perturbation of sorting nexin function does not prevent the formation of PVCs. [[FIGURE]] As PVCs in all plant cells are wortmannin-sensitive (CITATION; CITATION), we tested the effects of wortmannin on the ARA6–RFP-positive structures. Unlike the control protoplasts (Figure 6d), neither the GFP–BP80 nor the ARA6–RFP signals formed ring structures in protoplasts expressing the SNX mutants after application of wortmannin (Figure 6h,l). In contrast, the ARA6–RFP-positive structures in protoplasts expressing the SNXCCRNAi construct were sensitive to wortmannin (Figure 6p). Thus, the PVCs that are formed after expression of the SNX mutants are qualitatively different to those of wild-type cells, and to those of cells in which SNX expression is repressed. As expression of the sorting nexin mutants caused an arrest of BP80 in the TGN, we determined whether the mutants result in a general inhibition of protein export from the TGN, or whether the observed effect is specific for BP80 ligands. Therefore, we performed quantitative protein transport assays using barley α-amylase as a reporter for transport to the cell surface, and a derivative thereof (α-amylase–sporamin) carrying the sequence-specific vacuolar sorting signal (NPIR) of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) sporamin, to monitor transport to the lytic vacuole (CITATION). As shown in Figure 7(a), transport of the secretory reporter α-amylase to the cell surface was not significantly reduced when either SNX2a-ΔN or SN2a-ΔCC were co-expressed at the same concentration that trapped BP80 at the TGN (compare Figure 5e,f). This was also true for each SNX1 mutant (data not shown). This demonstrates that the arrest of BP80 at the TGN is not due to a general inhibition of protein export. [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, when the vacuolar reporter α-amylase–sporamin was co-expressed under the same conditions as for each of the SNX2a mutants (Figure 7b) or the SNX1 mutants (data not shown), its transport is not affected either. This suggests that transport of soluble cargo molecules to the lytic vacuole still occurs despite the vacuolar sorting receptor BP80 being trapped at the TGN. To confirm this, we co-expressed SNX2a-ΔCC with GFP–sporamin as a vacuolar reporter. This molecule carries the same sequence-specific vacuolar sorting signal as α-amylase–sporamin, but also allows precise biochemical analysis of vacuolar transport, as the 40 kDa transit form is proteolytically degraded in the lytic vacuole upon arrival, yielding a 28 kDa form, termed the GFP core (CITATION). As monitored using GFP antibodies, Figure 7(c) (left panel) shows the distribution of GFP–sporamin in the culture medium and the different forms of the reporter in cellular fractions. When GFP–sporamin is expressed alone, the majority of the reporter is detected in the vacuolar form, and only a small amount is detected in its transit form. Co-expression of the SNX2a-ΔCC mutant increased the amount of transit form in medium and cellular fractions, presumably due to slightly reduced transport efficiency. However, the mutant did not prevent the processing of GFP–sporamin into the vacuolar GFP core and thus arrival of the reporter at the vacuole, at concentrations (30 μg) that were shown to block the transport of BP80 (Figure 5). To rule out the possibility that this detected GFP core was the result of degradation caused by the release of vacuolar enzymes during sample preparation, protoplasts expressing only α-amylase–sporamin were incubated with wortmannin in an additional control experiment. This drug is known to induce the secretion of BP80 ligands, and therefore inhibits delivery to the lytic vacuole (Pimpl et al., 2003, 2006; CITATION). Figure 7(c) (right panel) shows the increased amount of the secreted transit form in the culture medium caused by treatment with 1–30 μm wortmannin. Moreover, the cellular fraction contained only the unprocessed transit form but not the GFP core. This demonstrates that the GFP core, which was detected in the presence of the sorting nexin mutant, is indeed the result of vacuolar delivery. These findings were corroborated by directly visualizing the fluorescent vacuolar reporters aleurain–GFP and GFP–sporamin in vivo. The typical vacuolar pattern of both reporter molecules (Figure 7d,g) was not abolished by the expression of either SNX2a-ΔN (Figure 7e,h) or SNX2a-ΔCC (Figure 7f,i), and the fluorescence in the vacuole of the protoplasts remained visible in all cases. However, this vacuolar signal was somewhat weaker (compared to control), and increased labelling at the periphery was seen (Figure 7e,f,h,i), suggesting that SNX2a mutant expression does partially retard transport into the vacuole. The same results were obtained by the co-expression of the SNX1-ΔN or SNX1-ΔCC mutants with each of the two fluorescent reporters (data not shown). Taken together, these results show that, while expression of sorting nexin mutants trapped GFP–BP80 at the TGN, the overall consequences for vacuolar protein transport are marginal.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type Col-0 and transgenic lines expressing VHA-a1–GFP (CITATION), ST–YFP/VHA-a1–GFP (CITATION) and ARA7–GFP (CITATION) were grown on MS medium containing 0.5% agar. Roots were harvested after 5 days for immunofluorescence or IEM. Nicotiana tabacum var. SR1 was grown as described previously (CITATION). Suspension cultures of BY-2 tobacco (N. tabacum) and A. thaliana var. Landsberg erecta PSB-D were cultivated as described previously (CITATION) and analysed 3 days after sub-culturing. Arabidopsis coding sequences were amplified by PCR from first-strand cDNA prepared from 3-day-old seedlings (CITATION), using the oligonucleotides shown in Figure S1(d). Recipient plasmids were cut based on the restriction sites of the fragments, and dephosphorylated prior to ligation according to established procedures. The plasmids encoding the markers/reporters used have been described previously: ARA6–RFP (CITATION), ARA6–GFP (CITATION), ST–YFP (CITATION), Man1–RFP and Man1–GFP (CITATION), GFP–BP80 and GFP–sporamin (CITATION), aleurain–GFP (CITATION) and α-amylase–sporamin (CITATION). The plasmid encoding α-amylase was pAmy (CITATION). Cloning vectors were generated by insertion of an NheI site after the 35S promoter of pAmy (pGD5) or an additional SalI site after the amylase insert (pSN5). SYP61 (NM_102617) was cloned into the YFP-containing plasmid pDS02 (CITATION), and the resulting plasmid was termed pDS13. SNX1 (NM_120696) was cloned into pAmy, and the resulting plasmid was termed pSN1. For SNX1–XFP fusions, SNX1 was amplified from pSN1, and mKate was amplified from pTagFP635-N and ligated into pAmy. SNX1-ΔN/-ΔCC were amplified from pSN1 and ligated into pAmy. SNX2a (NM_125230) was cloned into pSN5, and the resulting plasmid was termed pSN13. SNX2a-ΔN/-ΔCC were amplified from pSN13 and ligated into pSN5. For SNX2a–GFP, SNX2a was amplified from pSN13 and GFP was amplified from LeSed5–GFP (CITATION), followed by ligation into pGD5. SNX2b (NM_120794) was cloned into pAmy. SNXCCRNAi was generated by cloning the first coiled-coil domain of SNX2a from pSN13 in the sense and antisense orientations, linked by the PDK intron of pHannibal, into pGD5. Protoplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells 3 days after sub-culturing. The suspension-cultured cells were sedimented at 80 g for 10 min, and resuspended in TEX buffer (CITATION) supplemented with 0.2% macerozyme R10 and 0.4% cellulose R10 (Yakult Honsha Co. Ltd, http://www.yakult.co.jp/english/index.html) and incubated at 25°C for 16 h. Protoplasts were washed four times with electroporation buffer (see CITATION) by flotation at 80 g for 10 min, followed by removal of the liquid medium using a peristaltic pump. Tobacco mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from leaves of 6–8-week-old plants as previously described (CITATION). Unless otherwise stated, 1–30 μg of plasmid DNA was transfected, and protoplasts were incubated for 16 h. SNX2a antibody was generated by Eurogentec (http://www.eurogentec.com) using peptides CLGVDGGDHPLKISDV and CEDFRSSFSSKPISSD as antigens. α-amylase activity was assayed in culture medium and cells using the Megazyme α-amylase reagent kit (http://www.megazyme.com). The secretion index was calculated as the ratio of secreted activity compared to cellular activity. For protein gel blots, cells were extracted; proteins from culture medium were precipitated and processed for SDS–PAGE and immunodetection as described previously (CITATION). Antibodies were used at the following dilutions: SNX2a, 1:2500; VPS29, 1:1000 (CITATION); GFP, 1:2500 (CITATION). For immunofluorescence, Arabidopsis plants or BY-2 cells were fixed and processed as previously described (CITATION). Samples were incubated overnight at 4°C with SNX2a (1:200) or VPS29 (1:100) antibodies. Alexa-Fluor® conjugates 405 and 546 (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) were used as secondary antibodies. Imaging was performed using a Zeiss Axiovert LSM 510 meta confocal laser scanning microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/) and C-Apochromat 63 ×/1.2 W corr water immersion objective. At the Metadetector, main beam splitters (HFT) 405/514, 458/514 and 488/543 were used. The following fluorophores (excited and emitted by frame switching in the multi-tracking mode) were used: GFP, 488 nm/496–518 nm; YFP, 514 nm/529–550 nm; RFP, 543 nm/593–636 nm; mKateFP, 543 nm/625–646 nm. Pinholes were adjusted to 1 Airy unit for each wavelength. Post-acquisition image processing was performed using the Zeiss LSM 510 image browser (4.2.0.121) and CorelDrawX4 (14.0.0.567) (Corel, http://www.corel.com). Root tips from Arabidopsis and tobacco were high pressure-frozen as described by CITATION. Freeze substitution was performed in 9.9 ml dry acetone supplemented with 100 μl 20% uranyl acetate in methanol at −85°C for 16 h, before warming up to −50°C over a 5 h period. Roots were infiltrated and embedded in Lowicryl HM20 (Polysciences Inc.; http://www.polysciences.com) at −50°C, and UV-polymerized for 3 days at −50°C. Ultra-thin sections were incubated with antibodies against SNX2a (1:150), VPS29 (1:50) and BP80 (1:50). Gold-conjugated secondary antibodies (BioCell GAR10; http://www.biocell.com) were used at a dilution of 1:50 in PBS supplemented with 1% w/v BSA. Post-staining was performed using aqueous uranyl acetate/lead citrate. Micrographs were obtained with a JEM1400 transmission electron microscope (Jeol, http://www.jeol.com) operating at 80 kV using a TVIPS F214 digital camera (http://www.tvips.com). Negatives were either scanned using an Epson Perfection 4990 photo scanner (Epson, http://www.epson.com), or micrographs were taken with the TVIPS FastScan F214 digital camera. Images were adjusted for size, contrast and brightness using Photoshop (Adobe Systems, http://www.adobe.com) to improve the visibility of gold particles.
