!~ABS~! To sense ambient light conditions in order to optimize their growth and development, plants employ a battery of photoreceptors responsive to light quality and quantity. Essential for the sensing of red and far-red (FR) light is the phytochrome family of photoreceptors. Among them, phytochrome A is special because it mediates responses to different light conditions, including both very low fluences (very low fluence response [VLFR]) and high irradiances (high irradiance response [HIR]). In contrast with the FR-HIR signaling pathway, in which several intermediates of the signaling pathway have been identified, specific components of the VLFR pathway remain unknown. Here, we describe owl1 (for orientation under very low fluences of light), a mutant that is specific for the VLFR, suggesting that VLFR and HIR pathways are genetically distinct, although some common mechanisms can be observed. OWL1 codes for a ubiquitous J-domain protein essential for germination, cotyledon opening, hypocotyl elongation, and deviation of the direction of hypocotyl growth from the vertical under very low light conditions. Additionally, we observed a flowering phenotype suggesting a role for the VLFR during the whole life cycle of a plant. OWL1 interacts with the basic helix-loop-helix HFR1 (LONG HYPOCOTYL IN FAR-RED) transcription factor, previously characterized as a component of the FR-HIR pathway. Both proteins are involved in the agravitropic response under FR light. We propose a central function of OWL1 in the VLFR pathway, which is essential for plant survival under unfavorable light conditions.
!~RES~! The owl1-1 mutant was identified using a screen designed to detect plants defective in phyA signaling (CITATION), and the insertion site of the T-DNA was identified by sequencing. OWL1 is a single-copy gene that consists of 11 exons and encodes a J-domain protein (Figure 1A ). J-domains, first identified in Heat shock protein (Hsp)40/DNAJ proteins, are highly conserved and feature four α-helices and a HPD motif after the second helix (CITATION; CITATION). The J-domain is situated between residues 12 and 90 of the 538–amino acid OWL1 protein (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Because OWL1 lacks the zinc finger and Cys repeats present in the C terminus of class I (Hsp40) and class II (Hsp40-like) J-domain proteins, it is relegated to class III. The gene encoding OWL1 has been previously isolated in a yeast screen for Arabidopsis cDNAs that render yeasts tolerant to thiol-oxidizing drugs (CITATION). The human DNAJ C11 group, which so far has not been functionally characterized, shows the highest homology to OWL1 (20 to 30% amino acid identity; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). OWL1 is present in all higher plants analyzed so far, usually as a single-copy gene. It is also found in Ostreococcus lucimarinus, a green algae with a highly compact genome. [[FIGURE]] An additional loss-of-function line, owl1-2, was identified by reverse genetics, and in both mutant alleles, OWL1 protein accumulation could not be detected (Figure 1B). Nevertheless, in owl1-2, the expression of the 5′-part of the mRNA could be observed by RT-PCR in agreement with the more 3′-terminal location of the T-DNA insertion (Figure 1C). To complement the physiological analysis, we generated cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S CaMV) promoter-driven overexpression lines (OWL1-OE), which expressed the protein at approximately two- to fourfold higher levels (Figure 1B). Because exposure of etiolated seedlings to light inhibits hypocotyl elongation and promotes cotyledon unfolding, the analysis of seedling development under different light conditions provides information on the functionality of the corresponding photoreceptor or its transduction pathway. To discriminate between the phyA-dependent VLFR and FR-HIR, we analyzed the phenotypes of the mutant lines under hourly pulses of FR (VLFR) and continuous FR (FR-HIR) light, respectively. Under pulses of FR light, hypocotyl elongation was partially inhibited in wild-type seedlings, whereas owl1 seedlings were significantly longer than the wild type (P < 0.005; Figure 2A ). Statistical evaluation of the hypocotyl elongation of the overexpression lines showed that the OWL1-OE1 line, which overexpresses OWL1 to a higher level, was similar to the wild type, whereas the OWL1-OE2 line was more similar to the owl1 mutants, suggesting cosuppression effects. In a phyA mutant, hypocotyl elongation was not inhibited. Furthermore, cotyledons of phyA mutants did not expand under these conditions, and seedlings featured an apical hook (Figure 2B). owl1 alleles had an intermediate phenotype with partially unfolded cotyledons, while the overexpressing lines had completely opened cotyledons. [[FIGURE]] As VLFRs are induced by not only FR light but also very low fluences of R light, we performed a fluence response assay measuring hypocotyl lengths to evaluate the effect of impaired VLFR in owl1. Hypocotyl elongation of wild-type seedlings was strongly inhibited up to fluence rates of ∼0.05 μmol m−2 s−1 when compared with the phyA mutant, which is devoid of VLFR. The two owl1 mutant alleles had significantly longer hypocotyls compared with Col-0, confirming the strongly reduced VLFR (P < 0.05; Figure 2C). Under higher fluence rates of R light, no statistically significant difference between wild type and owl1 could be observed, although owl1, OWL1 overexpressing lines and phyA were slightly shorter than Col-0 (Figure 2C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). On the other hand, under continuous FR light (HIR), no statistically significant difference between the wild type and owl1 was noted in hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon opening (Figure 2D). To exclude the possible involvement of OWL1 in signal pathways transduced by the blue light photoreceptors, hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon opening of seedlings grown under continuous blue (B) light was measured. None of these conditions led to statistically significant differences in growth from the wild type under the analyzed conditions, suggesting that the B light perception is not affected in owl1 (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Furthermore, phototropic responses to lateral nonsaturating B light were not significantly altered in the owl1 mutant alleles, although a slight increase in curvature was observed (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). Additionally, no difference between dark-grown seedlings of the wild type and owl1 mutants could be detected. From these results, we concluded that in owl1 mutants, the regulation of hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon expansion is impaired in a VLFR-specific manner and that OWL1 is not important for the FR-HIR signal transduction. The VLFR has been implicated in several aspects of seedling development, including germination, agravitropic growth, hypocotyl elongation, and cotyledon opening. Germination efficiency was evaluated after the exposure to an FR light pulse (450 μmol m−2) applied ∼48 h after imbibitions, conditions that would allow for phyA accumulation in seed. Figure 3A shows that owl1 was not able to germinate under these conditions, similar to phyA but unlike the wild type. On the other hand, plants overexpressing OWL1 showed a 2.5-fold increase in the germination frequency compared with the wild type, suggesting an enhanced sensitivity toward very low fluences. LFRs do not lead to differences in the germination efficiency of owl1 and OWL1-OE tested after induction by saturating white (W) light (48,000 μmol m−2) or R light pulse (600 μmol m−2) applied 3 h after imbibition (Figure 3A), suggesting that only VLFR-mediated processes are impaired in the owl1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] Wild-type seedlings, grown under FR light conditions, exhibited agravitropic growth that deviated from the perpendicular axis, probably due to circumnutational movements during their growth (Figures 3B and 3C). Because phyA plants cannot sense FR light, their growth axis was not influenced by FR light and hence seedling growth was perpendicular, responding only to gravity. This behavior was analyzed on vertical agar plates, which allowed a momentary flash at the position of the hypocotyls after a certain time. The growth of OWL1-OE lines under these conditions was similar to the wild type (P > 0.4), whereas owl1 mutants exhibited a mostly perpendicular growth with 60 to 70% of the seedlings deviating only up to 40° from the perpendicular (P < 0.001; Figures 3B and 3C; see Supplemental Figure 5A online). This indicates that the gravitropic response can override the light response. Under FR light, protochlorophyllide does not convert into chlorophyll because the light is not energetic enough to activate the protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase. Additionally, plants that are transferred into W light conditions after exposure to FR light (continuous light or pulses) are disturbed in their ability to green, in contrast with phyA mutants (CITATION; CITATION). This response is known as the far-red-killing effect. phyA mutants are able to retain their prolamellar body under FR light, thereby being able to produce chlorophyll upon induction with W light. Whereas wild-type plants fail to green in W light after continuous FR light, they can accumulate low amounts of chlorophyll after pulses of FR light. By contrast, owl1 was able to green efficiently after pulses of FR light (Figure 3D; see Supplemental Figure 5B online). On the other hand, OWL1-OE lines were even more sensitive to the FR light pulses than the wild type and accumulated less chlorophyll. After continuous FR light for 4 d (FR-HIR conditions), owl1 mutants did not accumulate chlorophyll, similar to the wild type, demonstrating that only after very low fluences was the ability to green retained in the owl1 mutants (Figure 3D). These data confirmed that OWL1 is specific for many or all developmental processes that are mediated by the VLFR. One of the few phyA-dependent phenotypes described in adult plants is that phyA mutants flower later than the wild type (CITATION). In owl1 mutants, flowering time under long-day conditions was also moderately, but statistically significantly, delayed as determined by the number of leaves at bolting (Col 13.8 ± 0.7; owl1-1 16.0 ± 0.9, owl1-2 15.8 ± 0.7; P < 0.01; Figure 3E) and the number of days until bolting, whereas OWL1-OE lines were similar to the wild type. So far, flowering time has not been attributed to any specific fluence rates, but the data suggest that VLFR is at least partially involved in regulating the transition from the vegetative state to the reproductive state. In order to elucidate the site of action of OWL1, OWL1 transcript and its protein accumulation were investigated by RNA and protein blot analyses. Figure 4A shows that OWL1 mRNA and protein were present in root, stem, leaf, and flower tissues and that the protein accumulation level did not vary strongly between tissues. The ubiquitous presence of OWL1 mRNA was confirmed by microarray data (AtGenExpress). No difference in protein levels was detected during development from seedlings up to 6-week-old plants, suggesting a role for OWL1 during the whole lifespan of a plant (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Because the phenotype of owl1 prevailed in the seedling stage, we also tested OWL1 accumulation in dark-grown seedlings and etiolated seedlings illuminated with 3 or 18 h of FR light and 18 h W light, but no differences were seen (Figure 4B). Similar results with phyA mutant seedlings indicated that OWL1 accumulation was also not dependent on the presence of phyA. [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence microscopy was employed to determine the intracellular localization of OWL1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion proteins. Figure 5A shows onion epidermis cells bombarded with an OWL1-GFP construct driven by the 35S CaMV promoter. An accumulation of OWL1-GFP in the nucleus and cytoplasm could be observed with a punctuated pattern of green fluorescence. This expression pattern was independent of the N- or C-terminal position of the fusion protein (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Subcellular fractionation confirmed the localization of OWL1 within the nucleus (Figure 5B). To evaluate the distribution of OWL1 between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, we fractionated plant extracts into a nuclear and a soluble (presumably cytosolic) fraction. Seedlings grown in darkness showed an even distribution of OWL1 between the nucleus and the soluble fraction, whereas in light-grown seedlings, OWL1 accumulated in the nucleus, although the protein was still detectable in the soluble fraction (Figure 5C). Also, pulses of FR light were sufficient to cause protein accumulation in the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] Changes in the abundance of OWL1 could be responsible for a modified VLFR in phyA or in phyA signaling mutants. Especially the SPA1 protein together with CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC (COP1) has been shown to be involved in the protein stability of several phyA signaling intermediates (CITATION). However, our analyses of different mutants, such as hfr1, pks1, fhy1, and spa1, that show changed VLFR, did not uncover any drastic changes in OWL1 levels, albeit in fhy1, OWL1 levels appeared slightly increased. Nor could a change of the protein level in the phyA mutant be detected. This was verified for seedlings grown under pulses of FR light (Figure 6A ) and for 3-week-old plants grown in W light (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). [[FIGURE]] It is well established that phyA levels rapidly decline upon induction with red light (CITATION). One reason for the observed insensitivity toward VLF in the owl1 mutants could be a faster degradation or a lower steady state level of the phyA photoreceptor. Protein levels of phyA were therefore analyzed in etiolated seedlings treated with different times of R light (fluence rate of 10 μmol m−2 s−1). In wild-type seedlings, phyA started to degrade after 30 min and no protein was detectable after 2 h. Figure 6B shows that phyA stability was not affected by the presence or absence of OWL1, suggesting that OWL1 is a true signaling component that could either be part of the signaling cascade proper or be involved in feedback regulation. To place OWL1 in the signal transduction chain, we performed a yeast two-hybrid assay using OWL1 as a bait against a cDNA library. One of the interacting partners that was confirmed by retesting in the yeast system was HFR1 (Figure 7A ). HFR1 is a putative transcription factor with a basic helix-loop-helix domain acting as a positive regulator downstream of both phyA and the cryptochrome (cry; CITATION; CITATION). Although the hfr1 mutant is deficient in several FR-HIR responses, its agravitropic behavior under FR light has also been described, indicating some role in the VLFR (CITATION). OWL1 fused to a DNA binding domain (BD) interacts with HFR1 fused to the activation domain (AD) as determined in the yeast two-hybrid assay under rising concentrations of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3AT) (Figure 7A). OWL1-BD was not able to induced yeast growth on selection media by itself via intrinsic transactivation domains, and HFR1-AD could not interact with the BD. The reverse experiment was not performed due to an intrinsic ability of HFR1 to transactivate. [[FIGURE]] To provide evidence for a direct interaction between HFR1 and OWL1, we performed in vitro pull-down assays using overexpressed HIS and glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins. Figure 7B shows that HIS-HFR1 bound to Ni-NTA agarose interacted with GST-OWL1. As a negative control, GST-PAT1, a FR-HIR phyA signaling component (CITATION), was used, which has been shown not to interact with HFR1 (CITATION). Additionally, GST alone was also not able to interact with HFR1. These results indicated that OWL1 and HFR1 can indeed directly interact.
!~MM~! Wild-type and mutant plants used in this study were all in the Col-0 ecotypes. A phyA-null mutant in ecotype Col (phyA-211; CITATION) was used as a control. owl1-1 was isolated from the Koncz T-DNA collection in a screen for phyA-defective mutants (CITATION; CITATION) and owl1-2 from the GABI_KAT collection (091G03; CITATION). The gene disrupted in owl1-1 was identified by plasmid rescue (CITATION). Mutants were backcrossed and selfed to generate homozygous lines. Homozygous mutants were confirmed by genotyping using PCR amplification with gene- and insertion-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). spa1-3 was kindly provided by U. Hoecker, University of Cologne (CITATION), and pks1, phyA-211, phot1, and nph3 by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; CITATION; CITATION). The mutants hfr1-201 and fhy1-3 have been described by CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Growth conditions, light sources, and phenotypical characterization were performed as described previously (CITATION). All physiological experiments were repeated at least three times. Where appropriate, the physiological experiments were evaluated with t tests between the wild-type and the mutant line. P values are given. Furthermore, multiple comparisons among means have been tested using Tukey and Scheffe tests. To test for statistical significance of distributions, χ2 tests were applied. Proteins homologous to Arabidopsis thaliana OWL1 were identified by Protein BLAST (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi). Sequence alignments were performed with MegAlign (Lasergene7; DNAStar) with default settings. For overexpression, the full-length open reading frame of OWL1 was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library with the primers 5′-CAGATCTGATGATGGGCCAAGAAGCAGCTCCG-3′ adding a BglII site and 5′-AAAACTAGTCACTGGCCTTCTTGTGGTATACT-3′ adding a SpeI site. The fragment was cloned into pGEM-T easy (Promega), checked for mutations by DNA sequencing, and digested with the appropriate restriction endonucleases for cloning into a pVIP vector with the additional restriction sites AscI and PacI in the multiple cloning site and the CaMV 35S promoter (CITATION). The insertion was rechecked by sequencing. This binary construct was introduced into the pGV3101 strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens and transformed into Col-0 using the floral dip transformation method to generate overexpression lines (CITATION). Transformants were selected on kanamycin-containing medium and tested for overexpression on the protein level. For GFP fusion, OWL1 cDNA was amplified with the primers 5′-CACCATGATGGGCCAAGAAGCAGC-3′ and 5′-TCACTGGCCTTCTTGTGGTATACT-3′ (for N-terminal fusion of GFP) or 5′-CTGGCCTTCTTGTGGTATACTC-3′(for C-terminal fusion without a TGA codon) from a cDNA library, cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and inserted into the pK2FWG2 or pK7GWF2 GFP fusion vector (CITATION) with LR clonase (Invitrogen). For gene expression analyses, total RNA was extracted from 2-week-old seedlings using the Qiagen RNeasy Mini columns (Qiagen). RNA (1 μg) was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis using the Omniscript System (Qiagen) with a poly(T)18 primer, and 1.0 μL of this reaction was used as template for PCR amplification. Primer sets were used for amplification of the fragment A (5′-CACCATGATGGGCCAAGAAGCAGC-3′ and 5′-AGTGGGTTGAAATGAGCCATCTTC-3′) and fragment B (5′-CACCATGGAAGGATTGAATTCAGGA-3′ and 5′-CTGGCCTTCTTGTGGTATACT-3′) of OWL1 and actin2 (5′-CAGCACAATACCGGTTGTACGAC-3′ and 5′-CTCTTTCTTTCCAAGCTCATAAAAAATG-3′). For RNA gel blots, total RNA was quantified photometrically, and 20 μg of RNA was loaded on a MOPS formaldehyde gel, size-fractionated, and subsequently transferred to a nylon membrane. After hybridization in 50% formamide with random prime-labeled fragments, membranes were washed with 0.1× saline sodium citrate and 0.1% SDS at 45°C. The result was documented with a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). As a probe for OWL1, the full-length cDNA fragment from the pGEM-T easy vector was excised and radioactively labeled. To generate a specific antibody against OWL1, the full-length OWL1 cDNA was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library with the following primers: 5′-GCATGCATGATGGGCCAAGAAGCAGCTCCG-3′ adding an SphI site and 5′-GGTACCTCACTGGCCTTCTTGTGGTATAC-3′ adding a Kpn I site and cloned into pGEM-T easy. The fragment was checked for mutations by DNA sequencing. The vector was digested with the appropriate restriction endonucleases, and the fragment was cloned in frame behind a histidine hexapeptide in the pQE30 vector (Qiagen) using the SphI and KpnI sites. Escherichia coli was transformed with this construct. Positive clones were induced with isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and harvested 2 h after induction. A French press extract was divided after centrifugation into French press supernatant, the 8 M urea soluble fraction, and the 8 M urea insoluble fraction. The largest part of His-tagged protein was in the fraction of proteins soluble in 8 M urea. This fraction was loaded on a Ni2+ agarose column. By washing the column with 8 M urea of stepwise descending pH, the His-tagged protein was purified and finally eluted from the column at pH 4.4. Forty micrograms of purified protein per injection used for immunization of mice (Cocalico Biologicals). The first boost was given 21 d after initial inoculation, the second boost 49 d after initial inoculation, and exsanguination took place 59 d after initial inoculation. Protein extraction, SDS-PAGE, and immunodetection were performed as described previously (CITATION). The specific antibody was diluted 1:2000, and a goat anti-mouse antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Invitrogen), diluted 1:10,000, was used as a secondary antibody. For quantification, the program BioDocAnalyze (Biometra) was applied. PhyA degradation assay was performed according to CITATION. For this assay, seedlings were pregrown in D then incubated in R light. Protein was extracted at the indicated time points and separated on SDS-PAGE, and phyA was detected immunologically. Amido black assays were used to quantify protein amounts in extracts before loading (CITATION). OWL1-GFP was introduced into onion epidermis cells via particle bombardment as described by CITATION. Samples were incubated over night in the dark and analyzed with an Axioskop microscope (Carl Zeiss). GFP fluorescence was detected with the filter set 38HE. Seedling tissue (500 mg) was homogenized in 1 mL extraction buffer (2.5% ficoll 400 [w/v], 5% dextran T40 [w/v], 400 mM sucrose, 25 mM Tris/HCl [pH 7.4], and 10 mM MgCl2). Extract was filtered through Miracloth and supplied with Triton X-100 to a final concentration of 0.5% (v/v). After a 15-min incubation on ice, extract was sedimented (1500 rfc, 5 min, 4°C). The supernatant was used as the cytosolic fraction. The sediment was washed with extraction buffer containing 0.1% Triton X-100 (v/v) and resuspended in 1 mL of extraction buffer. Differential centrifugation steps removed cellular debris (100 rfc, 15 min, 4°C) and pelleted the nuclei (1800 rfc, 5 min, 4°C). For the yeast two-hybrid screen, the ProQuest reverse two-hybrid system (Invitrogen) was used according to manufacturer's instructions. The full-length open reading frame for OWL1 in the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (see GFP fusion) was inserted in frame with the GAL4-BD into the pDEST32 vector (Invitrogen) using the respective attR sites. Plasmids containing these constructs were transformed into competent MaV203 yeast cells as described by CITATION. Yeast cells were plated on SC-Leu-His + 10 mM 3AT to test for autoactivation activity associated with OWL1, which was minimal. Yeast two-hybrid screen was performed using OWL1 in pDEST32 and an Arabidopsis cDNA library (SuperScript Arabidopsis cDNA library; Invitrogen) inserted into the pDEST22 vector (Invitrogen), both transformed into competent MaV203 yeast cells. Putative interactors were isolated on plates containing SC-Leu-Trp-His + 10 mM 3AT. Fifty-six independent transformants were selected for putative positive interaction. Plasmids were extracted from positive yeast clones using the QIAprep Spin Miniprep Kit (Qiagen). Lysis of the yeast cells was achieved by vortexing with the P1 buffer and added glass beads. The eluted vector DNA was transformed into E. coli, reisolated, and sequenced. The full-length open reading frame of HFR1 was amplified with the primers 5′-CACCATGTCGAATAATCAAGCTTTCATGG-3′ and 5′-TCATAGTCTTCTCATCGCATGGG-3′ and inserted into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The fragment was transferred in frame with GAL4-AD into the pDEST22 vector (Invitrogen) using LR clonase (Invitrogen), and yeast was transformed with the bait and the prey. Because HFR1 is autoactivating, the reverse experiment was not performed. Strength of interaction was tested on plates containing SC-Leu-Trp-His+10 mM/15 mM/20 mM 3AT. Full-length OWL1 cDNA was amplified as for the GFP fusion but inserted into the pENTR/SD-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and the insertion was then transferred, using the LR clonase, into pGEX-4T-1 (GE Healthcare) with an additional GATEWAY cassette to obtain the GST fusion. PAT1 cDNA was amplified with the primers 5′-CACCATGTACAAGCAGCCTAGAC-3′ and 5′-TCATTTCCAAGCACACGAGGC-3′, and the fragment was cloned accordingly into pGEX-4T-1.The vectors were transformed into the E. coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysS (Stratagene), and liquid cultures of single colonies were grown at 37°C to a A600 = 0.8. Expression of the GST fusion proteins was then induced with 0.2 mM IPTG, and cells were incubated for 3 h at 37°C. The full-length HFR1 cDNA was amplified as described above and inserted into the pENTR/SD-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and the insertion was then transferred, utilizing the LR clonase, into pGEX-4T-1 (GE Healthcare). Using the primers 5′-CACCACCACAAGGAGCCCTTCACCATGTCG-3′ and 5′-GTGGTGGTGCATGAATACTGTTTCCTGTGT-3′, the vector was amplified using a proofreading polymerase (Finnzymes), thereby excising the sequence coding for the GST-tag and substituting it with an N-terminal 6xHIS-tag. The vector was transformed into the E. coli strain BL21(DE3)pRIPL codon plus (Stratagene), and liquid cultures of single colonies were grown at 37°C to A600 = 0.8. Expression of HIS-HFR1 was then induced with 1 mM IPTG, and cells were incubated for 3 h at 37°C. The cultures were harvested and cells lysed under denaturing conditions by resuspending in buffer B (50 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM Tris·HCl, and 8 M urea, pH 8.0). Cells were stirred for 30 min at room temperature and centrifuged at 10,000g for 30 min at room temperature to pellet the cellular debris. The proteins in the supernatant were dialyzed overnight against 50 mM NaH2PO4, 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM imidazole, 1 mM PMSF, and 1 mM ascorbate. For pull-down assay, HIS-HFR1 was bound to Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen) and washed according to the manufacturer's instructions. One microgram of OWL1-GST or PAT1-GST was applied to 1 μg bound HIS-HFR1 and incubated for 1 h at 4°C. Samples were washed using 50 mM NaH2PO4, 50 mM NaCl, 25 mM imidazole, 1 mM PMSF, and 1 mM ascorbate and eluted according to the manufacturer's instructions. Samples were separated using SDS-PAGE, and immunodetection was performed with anti-OWL1 (dilution 1:2000), anti-Penta-HIS (Qiagen; dilution 1:10,000), and anti-GST antibody (Sigma-Aldrich; 1:10,000) as primary antibodies. As secondary antibodies, a goat anti-mouse antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Invitrogen), diluted 1:10,000, was applied. Blocking buffer was substituted with 3% nonfat milk powder, only to detect the HIS-tag 1% casein was used. The signal was detected by chemiluminescence, and for quantification the program BioDocAnalyze (Biometra) was used. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: OWL1 (At2g35720), HFR1 (AT1G02340), PAT1 (AT5G48150), OsOWL1 (Os10g0507800), OlOWL1 (XP_001419313), HsDNAJ c11C(NP_060668), DmDNAJ c11 (NP_610945), and CeDNAJ 9 (NP_494872). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Schematic Depiction of the VLFR and HIR Signaling Pathways. Supplemental Figure 2. Alignment of the OWL1 Protein with Its Orthologs. Supplemental Figure 3. Hypocotyl Elongation under LFR and FR-HIR. Supplemental Figure 4. OWL1 Plays No Role in Blue Light Signaling. Supplemental Figure 5. OWL1 Is Important for Agravitropic Growth and the Far-Red Light Killing Response. Supplemental Figure 6. Developmental Time Course of OWL1 Protein Levels. Supplemental Figure 7. Subcellular Localization of OWL1. Supplemental Figure 8. OWL1 Protein Levels Are Not Affected in Different phyA Signaling Mutants. Supplemental Table 1. Summary of Oligonucleotide Primers Used for Genotyping.
