!~ABS~! Proteomics allows the large-scale study of protein expression either in whole organisms or in purified organelles. In particular, mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of gel-separated proteins produces data not only for protein identification, but for protein structure, location, and processing as well. An in-depth analysis was performed on MS data from etiolated hypocotyl cell wall proteomics of Arabidopsis thaliana . These analyses show that highly homologous members of multigene families can be differentiated. Two lectins presenting 93% amino acid identity were identified using peptide mass fingerprinting. Although the identification of structural proteins such as extensins or hydroxyproline/proline-rich proteins (H/PRPs) is arduous, different types of MS spectra were exploited to identify and characterize an H/PRP. Maturation events in a couple of cell wall proteins (CWPs) were analyzed using site mapping. N -glycosylation of CWPs as well as the hydroxylation or oxidation of amino acids were also explored, adding information to improve our understanding of CWP structure/function relationships. A bioinformatic tool was developed to locate by means of MS the N -terminus of mature secreted proteins and N -glycosylation.
!~RES~! Most plant genes, including those encoding CWPs, belong to multigene families. These can be very large, and they can include closely related members. For example, in A. thaliana , there are 73 predicted peroxidase genes ( CITATION ), 66 pectin methylesterase (PME) genes ( http://cellwall.genomics.purdue.edu/families/4-5-1.html ), 33 xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase genes ( CITATION ), and 66 polygalacturonase genes ( http://cellwall.genomics.purdue.edu/families/4-3-3.html ). It is usually difficult to study the regulation of close members of these gene families at the protein level. Classical approaches using immunology are not efficient because of high amino acid similarity, but PMF using MALDI–TOF MS provides a powerful alternative. Indeed, subtle mass differences between peptides can be measured, the accuracy of mass determination being as small as 20 ppm (parts per million). As an example, the identification in the same sample of two closely related lectin homologs is reported in CITATION . At1g78850 and At1g78860 share 93% amino acid identity. On MS spectra, seven peptides common to both proteins were found (boxed peptides) whereas four and three peptides were, respectively, specific to At1g78850 (underlined in green) and At1g78860 (underlined in blue) ( CITATION ). Note that in one case, the two versions of a peptide could be easily distinguished (ILENGNMVIYDS S/N GK), namely a difference of 11.02 Da in mass (1655.79 and 1666.81 Da, respectively). In our study, all CWPs could be identified unambiguously, but some intracellular contaminants of our cell wall preparation could not be discriminated because they belong to multigene families comprising closely related members. Either there was not enough protein coverage to find specific peptides, or the amino acid sequences of the proteins were too close, such as malate dehydrogenase (88% shared identity between At1g53240 and At3g15020), RUBISCO small subunit (96 or 97% shared identity among At5g38410, At5g38420, and At5g38430), actin (100% shared identity between At2g37620 and At3g53750). The last case was that of proteins with repetitive domains, such as polyubiquitins and ubiquitin extension proteins (e.g. At3g52590, At2g36170, At2g35635, and At1g31340). To become biologically active, some enzymes need to lose a pro-sequence, and are submitted to post-translational maturation events. PMF can be used as a tool to show such events by mapping the identified peptides on the sequence of the proteins. To be reliable, it must be carried out on several independent samples. Two examples of possible CWP maturation events are shown in CITATION . In our proteomic study on etiolated A. thaliana hypocotyls, six different putative pectin methylesterases (PMEs) were identified ( CITATION ). Five of them are type-I PMEs with both a predicted N -terminal pectinesterase inhibitor domain (PMEI, PF04043), and a C -terminal pectinesterase domain (PME, PF01095) ( CITATION ). The cleavage of the pro-sequence was shown to depend on the presence of one or two conserved basic tetrad motifs ( CITATION ). In none of the cases did we find peptides in the PMEI domains. In seven independent identifications of At1g53830 ( CITATION ), all the peptides were mapped to the predicted PME domain, namely between amino acids 275 and 548, thus allowing a coverage of 47% of this region ( CITATION ). In addition, the apparent molecular masses of these PMEs after 1D-E in denaturing conditions was around 35 kDa, consistent with a maturation event of the protein. For a long time, it was thought that there was no PMEI domain in cell wall PMEs. It was assumed that PMEI domains of PMEs could inhibit their enzyme activity, thus preventing the premature de-esterification of pectins before their secretion ( CITATION ). However, it was recently shown that maturation of PMEs inside the secretory pathway is required for their secretion ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Our results are consistent with the single presence of mature PMEs in cell walls. They strongly support the assumption that maturation occurs before protein secretion. However, this must be confirmed by Edman degradation sequencing to provide the actual N -terminus of the processed protein. The second example of protein maturation is provided by α-xylosidase At1g68560. In our samples, α-xylosidase was repeatedly identified as the only component present in three wide Coomassie blue stained bands obtained after 1D-E in denaturing conditions (H1, H2, H3 in CITATION ) ( CITATION ). Apparent molecular masses were between 75 and 100 kDa. Cartography of identified peptides on 18 independent fractions indicates that proteins in H3 lack N -terminal peptides ( CITATION ). Differences in molecular masses between H1, H2, and H3 are thus probably due either to the N -terminal processing of the protein, or to N -glycosylations. In fact, there are eight predicted N -glycosylation sites in the protein. We found that at least one of these sites is occupied. Stars in CITATION point to N -glycosylated forms of the protein on the SNHETLF NTTS SLVFK peptide located between amino acids 156 and 173. In addition, At1g68560 was identified in a previous proteomic study performed on a stem protein fraction retained on Concanavalin A ( CITATION ). We suspect that different states of N -glycosylation may occur on the other predicted sites. Furthermore, our MS data were compared to results of the N -terminal sequencing of a cabbage α-xylosidase, which is also a member of Brassicaceae . This enzyme shows 75% identity with At1g68560 and an apparent molecular mass of 85 kDa after 1D-E in denaturing conditions ( CITATION ). Edman sequencing showed that this N -terminal sequence was ISGSELTFSYTTDPFSFAVKRRL (J. Sampedro, personal communication). It shares 87% identity with an At1g68560 peptide located between amino acids 123 and 146. The removal of the peptide upstream of this sequence would cause a mass shift of 10.9 kDa, which fits in with the difference observed between molecular masses of H2 and H3. Altogether, it suggests that At1g68560 is processed at its N -terminus in cell walls. The processing of cell wall enzymes that act on polysaccharides was already shown. An α-L-arabinofuranosidase (ARAI) and a β-D-xylosidase (XYL) from barley are post-translationally processed at their C -terminus ( CITATION ). Such C -terminal processing was also suggested for the β-D-xylosidases AtXYL1 and AtXYL4 ( CITATION ). In this case, not all the C -termini of the proteins were covered by MALDI–TOF MS PMF. An endo-β-1,4-xylanase (XYN-1) of barley aleurone was shown to be processed both at its N - and C -termini ( CITATION ). In addition, cell wall proteomic studies have shown that proteases represent about 11.6% of identified CWPs, none of which has known substrates ( CITATION ). In conclusion, our data support the hypotheses of an N -terminal processing of the At1g68560 α-xylosidase in muro and of the presence of N -glycans. In order to facilitate MS data analysis and easily identify post-translational maturation or modification events, we developed a bioinformatic tool called ProTerNyc , which is freely accessible ( www.polebio.scsv.ups-tlse.fr/ProTerNyc/ ). This software predicts the location of the N -terminus in mature secreted protein and the N -glycosylated peptides using the data obtained by MS. The N -terminus is predicted by TargetP ( CITATION ). With this tool, it is possible to overcome the limitations of searches in databases that do not take into account the signal peptide cut or peptide glycosylation. After running ProTerNyc on a given protein sequence and on a mass list generated by MS experiments, it can be seen that some observed peaks can be attributed to putative N -terminal peptide and N -glycopeptides. Aside from all the PMF data used for the cartography of a protein sequence, it is sometimes very instructive to go further into the MS spectra. When exploring the MS data for etiolated hypocotyl CWP fractions ( CITATION ), we observed some significant peaks not always used for protein identification. A detailed analysis of these data revealed that they are consistent with PTMs such as N -glycosylation or amino acid hydroxylation or oxidation. Several peroxidases were found ( CITATION ). CITATION shows the MS spectrum allowing the identification of one of these peroxidases, encoded by At3g32980 . Among the major peaks displayed in this spectrum, five were found to fit with non-modified peptides of At3g32980, leading to its identification. Other peaks in this spectrum were shown to belong to other proteins also identified in this sample, except for four peaks of high m/z (2661.16, 2864.25, 3685.54, and 3888.65). Since At3g32980 carries four putative N -glycosylation sites, we looked for possible glycopeptides. Using the m/z of the four peaks listed above (red arrows in CITATION ) and those of canonical N -glycans observed in plants ( CITATION ), we calculated that each of these four peaks may correspond to two modified peptides, P1 and P2. Both peptides possess one N -glycosylation consensus sequence and are supposed to carry two different complex motifs of N -glycosylation. Interestingly, in their unmodified form, P1 and P2 were absent from the spectrum, suggesting that in our experimental conditions, these glycosylation sites are always occupied. To confirm that these four peaks correspond to glycopeptides, we analyzed a total protein extract after hydrogen fluoride (HF) deglycosylation. MS analysis of the corresponding sample showed that all four peaks were absent ( CITATION ). This suggests that glycosylations were removed during the HF treatment, confirming the nature of these modifications. It has been reported that N -glycans are asymmetrically distributed on soybean seed coat peroxidase, whereas they are more uniformly distributed over horseradish peroxidase ( CITATION ; CITATION ). In addition, a study performed on cationic peanut peroxidase showed that N -glycans are essential to attain full catalytic ability and thermostability, and to influence protein folding ( CITATION ). Other examples demonstrate the importance of protein N -glycosylation in plants. The presence of N -glycans on the jack bean α-mannosidase was shown to influence the enzyme activity as well as its oligomerization ( CITATION ). It was also proposed that N -glycosylation motifs on a plant cell wall polygalacturonase inhibitor protein (PGIP) may favor interaction with its fungal polygalacturonase target during host–pathogen interaction ( CITATION ). Finally, several studies on defective glycosylation mutants have shown that the N -glycosylation pathway regulates protein quality control, salt tolerance, cell wall deposition, development, and plant–pathogen interactions ( CITATION ). Our results show that MS can be used to predict glycosylation and to gain new insight into the structural and functional characterization of proteins. However, until now, it was difficult to recognize N -glycopeptides using a systematic proteomic approach. Software such as ProteinProspector ( http://prospector.ucsf.edu/ ) and MASCOT ( www.matrixscience.com/home.html ) provide a series of simple PTM options to search for peptides with modified masses, including modified amino acids. In-depth PTM analysis, such as glycosylations, requires the use of specific tools, since this information is not yet referenced in databases. For a given protein, the ProTerNyc tool ( www.polebio.scsv.ups-tlse.fr/ProTerNyc/ ) described above can be used to calculate all putative N -glycopeptides and to identify them in a mass list obtained from MS experiments. It should be noted that mass tolerance for peptides with high m/z may need to be increased, since accuracy of mass determination decreases as mass increases. This software will undoubtedly be a precious tool to search for glycopeptides. Many CWPs contain hydroxylated Pro (Hyp), which can be O -glycosylated ( CITATION ). The At3g16850 polygalacturonase was identified by PMF using 12 peptides among CWPs from etiolated hypocotyls ( CITATION ). Among these peptides, one (P peptide) was predicted to exist under several forms. Indeed, the mass spectrum displays an isotopic massif with a monoisotopic peak at m/z 2522.23, associated with two isotopic massifs at a distance of 16 and 32 Da, respectively ( CITATION ). Such modifications may respectively correspond to the oxidation or hydroxylation of one or two amino acids. The P peptide has a theoretical monoisotopic mass of 2522.27 Da ( CITATION ). We performed MALDI–TOF–TOF MS/MS experiments on each of these peptides in order to confirm that these three isotopic massifs correspond to the same peptide, and locate oxidations or hydroxylations of amino acids. A clear fragmentation pattern was obtained from the P peptide, confirming the proposed sequence ( CITATION ). Both MS/MS spectra of the modified forms (m/z 2583.23 and 2554.21) present the two most abundant fragments previously observed for the P peptide (y10 and y15, CITATION ). However, one of these fragments (y15) differed by 16 or 32 Da from the corresponding peaks found on the P peptide fragmentation pattern. These results confirmed the presence of oxidations or hydroxylations and allowed their localization in a region of five possible amino acid residues (PSHWD, in bold in CITATION ). The oxidized or hydroxylated amino acids in this sequence probably are the Pro, His, Trp, and Asp, which, respectively, give rise to Hyp, oxohistidine, hydroxytryptophan, and hydroxyaspartate. Hyp is widespread in the plant kingdom. Pro hydroxylation is a PTM performed by prolyl 4-hydroxylases in the endoplasmic reticulum ( CITATION ). A code based on primary sequences was proposed for Pro hydroxylation and consecutive O -glycosylation in Hyp-rich glycoproteins (HRGPs) and in Hyp/Pro-rich proteins (H/PRPs) ( CITATION ; CITATION ). In the case of At3g16850, only one Pro may be hydroxylated in the P peptide within the Asp–Pro–Ser context, which has never been described in plant proteins. In addition, the presence of Hyp in a CWP different from the well known HRGPs and H/PRPs is noteworthy. A few cases have been reported in the literature, such as that of the dodeca-CLE peptides involved in cell differentiation ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Hyp was found in the Val–Pro–Ser and Gly–Pro–Asn sequences. So far, Pro hydroxylation in the CLE peptides seems to have no effect on their biological activity. Unlike Hyp, the presence of oxohistidine, hydroxytryptophan, and hydroxyaspartate in a plant protein has never been reported. Several examples of metal-catalyzed oxidation of His to oxohistidines were described for human proteins ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Hydroxytryptophan is described as a precursor of the neurotransmitter serotonin and as an intermediary in tryptophan metabolism ( CITATION ). Hydroxyaspartate residues were found in epidermal growth factor domains of several mammalian proteins. It was proposed that this modification regulates negatively the fucosylation of these regions ( CITATION ). In plants, oxidative modifications are known to occur in the presence of reactive oxygen species and metals, in particular in cell walls ( CITATION ). In the case of At3g16850, suspected oxidized or hydroxylated amino acids do not belong to the active site according to bioinformatic prediction. We can note that in the closest plant homologs of At3g16850, the pentapeptide DPSHW is conserved, suggesting its importance for protein function. However, since no structural data are available and no catalytic residues have been identified for any plant polygalacturonase, it is still difficult to predict a role for these amino acids. In all the plant cell wall proteomes described so far, structural cell wall glycoproteins such as extensins and H/PRPs represent only 1.7% of the presently identified CWPs and remain under-represented ( CITATION ). Many reasons may explain this situation: (1) the extraction of structural proteins is difficult, since they can be strongly bound to the cell wall; (2) the separation by electrophoresis in denaturing conditions can be disturbed by the presence of glycosylations; (3) digestion into peptides suitable for standard MS experiments can be limited because of the low frequency of protease cut sites into repetitive sequences, rendering protein identification by PMF difficult. Alternative strategies must be used to identify and characterize these proteins, such as peptide sequencing by tandem MS and MS in linear mode. The At5g14920 H/PRP, also named AtGASA14 ( CITATION ), was identified in etiolated hypocotyls and a smear was observed after 1D-E, with an apparent molecular mass of between 35 and 40 kDa (between K14 and K11 bands in CITATION ) ( CITATION ). Aside from the Pro-rich region covering most of the protein, At5g14920 also contains a cleavable N -terminal signal peptide and a C -terminal sequence that shows homology with the GASA peptides previously described in plants ( CITATION ). Analysis of the primary sequence of the Pro-rich region indicates that it contains only two tryptic cut sites, since this protease cannot cleave Lys-Pro linkages. Altogether, in the entire sequence, only 12 Lys/Arg residues can be used for tryptic digestion (in bold in CITATION ). In addition, some cleavage sites are very close together, generating peptides too small to be observed in the standard reflectron mode MALDI–TOF m/z window between 750 and 4000 Da. Instead, the two tryptic cut sites in the Pro-rich region release two large tryptic peptides, P1 and P2, which are also out of that m/z range. Despite these sequence constraints, three peptides from the C -terminal sequence, suitable for the standard reflectron mode MALDI–TOF MS, were found in the previously obtained spectra ( CITATION ). Their sequences were confirmed by MALDI–TOF–TOF MS/MS fragmentation ( CITATION ). In addition, N -terminal sequencing by Edman degradation ( CITATION ) enabled localizing the N -terminus of the protein downstream of the N -terminus predicted by bioinformatics, revealing a possible N -terminal processing or degradation. Thus, both tandem MS and Edman degradation results allowed correctly identifying At5g14920. In order to find the P1 and P2 peptides in the Pro-rich region of At5g14920, we performed additional MALDI–TOF MS experiments, this time in linear mode instead of the reflectron mode used in PMF standard conditions. The presence of consecutive Pro in the Pro-rich region suggests that, similarly to other cell wall H/PRPs ( CITATION ), some of them may be hydroxylated. Up to 17 and 39 Hyp residues can be expected on P1 and P2, respectively, respectively increasing their mass up to 272 and 624 Da. This calculation excludes Hyp in the Leu–Pro and Lys–Pro contexts according to previous work ( CITATION ; CITATION ). The MS spectrum for K11 clearly shows two major peaks in the m/z range 5700–18 000 ( CITATION ). The peak centered on the mean m/z 15 400 possibly corresponds to P2. This m/z, which is higher than the peptide theoretical mass (between 11 859 and 12 483 Da, depending on the number of Hyp), suggests the presence of O -glycosylations in this region. In addition, the width of the observed peak (m/z 14 200–16 600) reflects mass heterogeneity, probably due to different states of O -glycosylation. The di-protonated form of P2 (m/z 7700) is also observed. However, the corresponding peak in the m/z range 7000–8800 may also contain the signal of the mono-protonated form of P1, which can overlap with that of the di-protonated P2. The spectrum obtained for K14 has a peak at m/z 13 070, namely within the m/z 12 500–14 000 range corresponding to P2. Interestingly, for this peptide, a shift of mass of about 2300 Da is observed between K11 and K14, indicating a lower level of O -glycosylation in K14. In K14, the di-protonated form of P2 is resolved from the mono-protonated form of P1, at m/z 6500. The peak centered on m/z 7200, namely within the m/z 7000–7500 range, may be attributed to the mono-protonated form of P1. This mass range coincides with the expected mass of P1 calculated in the N -terminus determined by Edman degradation (up to 6866 Da, CITATION ). Considering the primary sequence of At5g14920 and the known codes for hydroxylation of Pro and subsequent O -glycosylations, At5g14920 may be O -gycosylated in different ways. The presence of the Thr–Pro modules suggests the presence of arabinogalactans as in AGPs ( CITATION ). However, the staining of the protein with the Yariv reagent was negative ( CITATION ). The presence of Lys–Pro–Pro–Thr motifs as in the maize THRGP (threonine-hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein) suggests the presence of arabinosylated Hyp ( CITATION ; CITATION ). However, similar motifs are present in AtAGP31 and in NaPRP4, which were found to contain 80 and 83% of galactose, respectively ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Staining of a fraction enriched in At5g14920 with a lectin specific for galactose was positive, indicating the possible presence of galactose ( CITATION ). Finally, the presence of both arabinose and galactose cannot be excluded as for the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii GP1 HRGP ( CITATION ). The MS results reported here suggest the presence of O -glycosylation on an H/PRP. As for NaPRP4 and AtAGP31 ( CITATION ; CITATION ), varying degrees of O -glycosylation were observed for At5g14920. The carbohydrate content of At5g14920 is estimated to be as much as 25% under that observed for NaPRP4 and AtAGP31 (75 and 80%, respectively), but much higher than that observed for soybean PRP2 (less than 1%) ( CITATION ). A functional study of glycosylations should prove interesting, since the role of O -glycosylation of H/PRPs has so far never been investigated. In the case of extensins, O -glycosylation was shown to keep proteins in an extended conformation ( CITATION ). Further work is necessary to elucidate the structure of the Pro-rich region and of its glycosylations ( CITATION ; CITATION ; CITATION ; CITATION ). However, other biochemical approaches should be considered, since MS or MS/MS alone will not fully reveal the structural features of this recalcitrant protein, such as the location of Hyp residues. The various examples presented in this article illustrate that MS is a powerful tool to gain new insight into the structure of CWPs in relation to their function. However, MS does not always allow the full coverage of a protein sequence, the complete description of PTMs, and the identification of all the proteins in a complex protein mixture. It appears that some proteins or peptides present in a sample fail to be analyzed. In certain cases, the MS results should be confirmed with additional experiments. N - or C -terminal sequencing can be used to determine the location of the ends of a protein, and consequently uphold biological processes such as maturation events. To go further into the three-dimensional structure of proteins, other methods can be used, such as nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) or X-ray crystal diffraction ( CITATION ). However, the amount of purified proteins required for these analyses can be limiting as compared to MS. Chemical proteomics that consists of the analysis by MS of proteins specifically tagged at their site of modification is an emerging field that offers striking insights into the functional biology of PTMs ( CITATION ). In conclusion, MS will increasingly be used as a diagnosis tool to address biological questions given its simple use, high throughput capacity, unequaled sensitivity, and the continuous technical developments in the field.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (ecotype Columbia 0) were grown in the dark as described ( CITATION ; CITATION ), and etiolated hypocotyls were collected at 5 and 11 d. One to 1.8 cm hypocotyls were used to isolate cell walls as previously reported ( CITATION ). The obtained cell wall fraction was ground in liquid nitrogen in a mortar with a pestle prior to lyophilization. Proteins were extracted from the cell wall preparation by successive steps of 0.2 M CaCl 2 followed by 2 M LiCl. The proteins were separated by cation exchange chromatography (CEC). The column fractions were separated by 1D-electrophoresis (1D-E), stained and named as previously described ( CITATION ). The bands stained with Coomassie Brilliant blue were excised from the gels and digested with trypsin as previously described ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Staining of proteins with the β-glycosyl Yariv reagent was performed as previously described ( CITATION ). Staining of proteins with the galactose-specific peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin was carried out using the DIG Glycan Differentiation Kit procedure (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). A sample of salt extractable CWP was HF-deglycosylated for 1 h at 4°C as described ( CITATION ; CITATION ). The HF was blown off under nitrogen gas, and the deglycosylated proteins were then separated by 1D-E. Sample preparation for all MALDI MS analyses was performed as previously described ( CITATION ). MALDI–TOF MS analyses were performed using a Voyager-DE STR mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems/MDS, Sciex, USA). Spectra were acquired either in reflectron mode as previously reported ( CITATION ; CITATION ) or in linear mode for a mass range of 2–20 kDa using the following parameters: accelerating voltage 25 kV, grid voltage 80% and acceleration delay time 800 ns. Every single acquisition run was composed of 2000 laser pulses at 20 Hz. Resolution of MALDI–TOF MS in linear mode was >300, corresponding to a full width at half maximum <50 for a peptide of m/z 15 000. The accuracy of the mass determination was ±0.4%, corresponding to m/z <80 in the mass region covered in linear mode. MALDI–TOF–TOF analyses were performed using a MALDI–TOF–TOF Voyager 4700 (Applied Biosystems/MDS, Sciex, USA). MS and MS/MS data were recorded using the following parameters: accelerating voltage 8 and 15 kV (source 1 and source 2, respectively) and grid voltage 86%. The mass selection of the precursor ion was achieved using a mass window of ±5 Da and collision was performed in CID off mode. Data were acquired with 3750 shoots/spectrum. Peptide mass fingerprints (PMFs) were compared to the non-redundant database of A. thaliana at NCBI ( www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ ) using ProteinProspector MS-FIT ( http://prospector.ucsf.edu/prospector/cgi-bin/msform.cgi?form=msfitstandard ). The criteria used for the database search were: a monoisotopic mass accuracy of 20 ppm; one missed cleavage; and hydroxylation of Pro residues. MS/MS results were analyzed using Protein Prospector MS-Product ( http://prospector.ucsf.edu/prospector/cgi-bin/msform.cgi?form=msproduct ). Sub-cellular location, length of signal peptides, prediction of transmembrane domains, homologies to other proteins and protein functional domains were predicted as previously described ( CITATION ) or using the ProtAnnDB database ( www.polebio.scsv.ups-tlse.fr/ProtAnnDB/ ). ProtAnnDB collects predictions of sub-cellular location and of functional domains obtained with different software ( CITATION ). N -glycosylation consensus sequences were determined using Prosite ( www.expasy.org/prosite/ ). Functional domains were predicted by InterProScan ( www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/InterProScan/ ). All A. thaliana and O. sativa cell wall proteomic data are collected in the dedicated WallProtDB database ( www.polebio.scsv.ups-tlse.fr/WallProtDB/ ). The ProTerNyc software was developed in PHP5. It includes an N -glycan database associated with their molecular masses according to CITATION . From a protein sequence and a mass list, ProTerNyc allows (1) prediction of a signal peptide using TargetP ( www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/ ), and (2) prediction of peptides possibly N -glycosylated using PROSITE ( www.expasy.org/prosite/ ). In a first step, ProTerNyc predicts the length of the signal peptide. When the prediction is positive, a search for the presence of N -glycosylation motifs (PS00001) is carried out. The protein is cleaved following the prediction and submitted to MS-digest ( http://prospector.ucsf.edu/prospector/cgi-bin/msform.cgi?form =msdigest). The list of masses obtained after theoretical digestion and eventually N -glycosylations on predicted consensus sites is compared to the list of experimental masses obtained after MALDI–TOF MS analysis with a mass tolerance of up to 60 ppm. The software accepts a tolerance for the length of the signal peptide around the position predicted by TargetP. The results are given in a file that can be exported in the Microsoft Office Excel format ( www.microsoft.com/france/office/2007/programs/excel/overview.mspx ).
