!~ABS~! Chlorophyll b is one of the major photosynthetic pigments of plants. The regulation of chlorophyll b biosynthesis is important for plants in order to acclimate to changing environmental conditions. In the chloroplast, chlorophyll b is synthesized from chlorophyll a by chlorophyllide a oxygenase (CAO), a Rieske-type monooxygenase. The activity of this enzyme is regulated at the level of protein stability via a feedback mechanism through chlorophyll b. The Clp protease and the N-terminal domain (designated the A domain) of CAO are essential for the regulatory mechanism. In this study, we aimed to identify the specific amino acid residue or the sequence within the A domain that is essential for this regulation. To accomplish this goal, we randomly introduced base substitutions into the A domain and searched for potentially important residues by analyzing 1,000 transformants of Arabidopsis thaliana. However, none of the single amino acid substitutions significantly stabilized CAO. Therefore, we generated serial deletions in the A domain and expressed these deletions in the background of CAO-deficient Arabidopsis mutant. We found that the amino acid sequence 97QDLLTIMILH106 is essential for the regulation of the protein stability. We furthermore determined that this sequence induces the destabilization of green fluorescent protein. These results suggest that this sequence serves as a degradation signal that is recognized by proteases functioning in the chloroplast. 
!~RES~! To examine whether a specific amino acid residue or a specific sequence within the A domain is essential for the regulation of CAO stability, we randomly introduced mutations into the A domain sequence and then expressed the mutated CAO sequences in Arabidopsis to assess the effect of the mutations. In the second set of experiments, we introduced serial deletions in the A domain sequence and expressed the truncated CAO sequences in Arabidopsis. For these experiments, we used the pGreenII binary vector, which contains the kanamycin resistance gene for selection of transgenic plants (CITATION). We introduced the following sequences into this vector: the cauliflower mosaic virus 35 S promoter, the ω sequence (for enhancement of translational stability), the full-length sequence for CAO, the GFP coding sequence, and the nopaline synthase terminator. The construct was similar to those used in our previous study (CITATION, CITATION). However, in contrast to our previous vectors, where the GFP sequence was inserted upstream of the CAO sequence, the GFP sequence was inserted downstream of the C domain of CAO (Fig. 1A). We made this change because we anticipated that genetic manipulations of the A domain sequence might affect the conformation of GFP if the GFP sequence is fused adjacent to the A domain. The vector constructs were then introduced into a CAO-deficient mutant, ch1-1, for expression of the CAO-GFP fusion protein. This mutant was used instead of the wild type in order to eliminate the possibility that the endogenous CAO interferes with the phenotype of the expressors. CLSM and immunoblot analysis showed that the expressor of the full-length CAO-GFP fusion did not accumulate the CAO-GFP protein, whereas the expressor of the B and C domains fused to GFP (BC-GFP) accumulated substantial amounts of protein (Fig. 1, B and C). Considering the same transcriptional levels of transgenes in BC-GFP and CAO-GFP (supplemental Fig. 1), these experiments demonstrated that the CAO-GFP fusion protein was destabilized in the expressor. This was also observed in the GFP-CAO expressors described in our previous study (CITATION). The chlorophyll a to b ratios in these transgenic plants are consistent with the levels of the transgene products. The BC-GFP expressor exhibited a lower chlorophyll a to b ratio than the wild type and the CAO-GFP expressor (Fig. 1D).  [[FIGURE]] In our initial random mutagenesis screens, we only analyzed one seedling per line. However, for lines that showed higher GFP signals in the first screening, we analyzed several T2 progenies per line to confirm their phenotypes. In the serial deletion experiments, we analyzed several transgenic lines for each construct to circumvent the positional effects of transgene insertion into the genome. Because we always observed similar phenotypes among the lines that contained the same transgene construct, we present here the results from one representative line for each construct. Note that most CAO expressors exhibited stable phenotypes among transgenic lines expressing the same construct. This suggests that the modification of CAO protein structure gave a more pronounced effect on protein stability than the positional effects of transgene insertion into the genome on the CAO transcript levels. This observation may reflect the characteristics of the regulatory mechanism of CAO, in which the CAO protein level is primarily determined by protein stability (CITATION).  We searched for specific amino acids that are essential for the regulation of CAO in the A domain by employing a random mutagenesis approach. We introduced mutations into the DNA sequence encoding the A domain in vitro by the combination of two methods: hydroxylamine treatment (CITATION) and random PCR mutagenesis (CITATION). The former method induces C-to-T or G-to-A substitution. In contrast, the other method induces A-to-T/G or T-to-C substitution. By combining both methods, it is theoretically possible to cause all types of base substitutions in double-stranded DNA. Mutagenized sequences were then cloned into the pGreenII vector for subsequent expression of the CAO-GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis (see supplemental Fig. 2).  To estimate the frequency of base substitution, we determined the nucleotide sequences for the A domain from 100 independent and randomly selected expressors. The average number of nucleotide mutations per sequence was 2.36, causing an average of 1.52 amino acid substitutions/sequence. Among the 100 expressors we sequenced, 86 lines had at least a single mutation (see supplemental Table 1). This mutation frequency was comparable with those reported previously (CITATION). Among the 342 bases of the sequence encoding the A domain, there are 77 guanine, 102 adenine, 54 cytosine, and 109 thymine bases. Thymine was the most frequently substituted (see supplemental Fig. 3A); 51.3% of the T bases were substituted to any other bases in at least one expressor. In contrast, the lowest frequency of substitution was 25.9% for G bases (supplemental Fig. 3A). Using the results from this analysis, we estimated, using the recurrence equation, how many expressors we should analyze to find at least one substitution in any base in the A domain sequence (supplemental Fig. 3B). We calculated that more than 99% of the total bases should be mutated at least once among a population of 1,000 expressors. Therefore, by screening 1,000 expressors, we would expect at least one mutation in any base in the A domain sequence with a probability of 99%.  Accordingly, we screened 1,000 expressors for increased accumulation of the CAO-GFP protein by CLSM. We found 35 expressors exhibiting GFP fluorescence above the background level, although the fluorescence intensities of these expressors were much lower than those of the BC-GFP expressor (Fig. 2A). We found that accumulation of the CAO-GFP protein was most intense in guard cells compared with other leaf cells. This could be explained by the fact that guard cells produce less chlorophyll than mesophyll cells, which may result in lower degradation activity for CAO (CITATION). Fig. 2A shows a CLSM image of a representative single line, which we designated Ar3 (for A-domain randomly mutagenized mechanism, line 3). Using immunoblot analysis and a GFP-specific antibody, we found that CAO-GFP protein accumulated in Ar3, although that protein level was much lower than that of BC-GFP. In contrast, CAO-GFP protein could not be detected in the control line, Ar0, which expressed the intact A domain sequence fused with GFP (Fig. 2B). Sequence analysis showed that Ar3 had two amino acid substitutions (E136V and K157R) in the A domain. In order to confirm whether one of these substitutions contributed to the phenotype of Ar3, we generated two site-directed mutants, containing either E136V or K157R substitutions. In the E136V site-directed mutant, the CAO(E136V)-GFP protein accumulated to the same level as in Ar3. In contrast, the CAO(K157R)-GFP protein was not detected. These results demonstrate that the E136V substitution is responsible for the increased stability of CAO in the Ar3 expressor.  [[FIGURE]] We found that among the 35 expressors, six lines contained the same mutations. This may be explained by the fact that we amplified the plasmid constructs after mutagenesis, which were then used for plant transformation. We therefore conclude that the 35 expressors were transformants of 29 independent mutant plasmids. In Fig. 3, we summarized the identified substitutions of amino acids within the 29 expressors. Redundant mutations from the same clones were omitted from this summary. The average number of amino acid substitutions in the 29 expressors was 2.8. When multiple substitutions were present in one clone, it is possible that only one of them contributed to the increase in CAO stability. Therefore, it is possible that a substantial portion of these substitutions did not contribute to the increase in CAO stability. When a clone contained a single substitution, it is most likely that this mutation contributed to increased CAO stability. We found three such mutations in three independent clones (purple boxes in Fig. 3). Alternatively, when the substitutions in the same amino acid were found in different clones, it is possible that the amino acid contributed to increased CAO stability. For 19 amino acids, we found multiple substitutions in different clones (blue circles in Fig. 3). These amino acids, whose mutations probably contributed to increased CAO stability in the expressors, were distributed throughout the A domain sequence (Fig. 3). Taking into account our observation that none of the 35 expressors showed a level of GFP fluorescence equivalent to that of the BC-GFP expressor, we concluded that there is no unique amino acid in the A domain sequence vital in the regulation of CAO stability. It is likely that multiple amino acid substitutions at one time may be required to eliminate the function of the A domain. We therefore speculate that modification of a single specific amino acid is not involved in the regulation.  [[FIGURE]] In a second set of experiments, we generated serial deletions of the A domain sequence by consecutively deleting 10 amino acids (30 nucleotides) using the plasmid construct that contains the A domain fused to B and C domains of CAO and GFP (Fig. 4A). Consequently, we obtained ten plasmid constructs, containing different lengths of the A domain (Fig. 4A). These constructs were then introduced into the ch1-1 mutant. Deletions of the A domain sequence up to amino acid Gln-97 had no effect on GFP fluorescence in the expressors (Fig. 4B). In contrast, deletions up to amino acid His-106 or further deletions resulted in significant accumulation of the CAO-GFP fusion proteins in the respective expressors (Fig. 4B). The intensities of GFP fluorescence in the deletion mutants up to or beyond His-106 were equivalent to that in the expressor lacking the entire A domain (the BC-GFP expressor). The same consequences of protein level of transgene products were detected by immunoblot analysis (Fig. 4C). Deletions up to or beyond His-106 resulted in a drastic increase in CAO-GFP protein levels in the expressors (Fig. 4C). Chlorophyll a to b ratios were ∼2.8 in the expressors with deletions up to Arg-96, whereas ratios decreased to less than 2.0 in the expressors with deletions beyond Gln-97 (Fig. 4D). Collectively, these results indicate that the amino acid sequence from Gln-97 to His-106 is essential in the regulation of the CAO protein level.  [[FIGURE]] In order to assess whether the sequence from Gln-97 to His-106 was sufficient to induce destabilization of CAO, this sequence was fused to BC-GFP and expressed in the ch1-1 mutants (A97–106-BC-GFP; Fig. 5A). As controls, the other parts of the A domain were fused to BC-GFP and expressed in the same mutant (A57–96-BC-GFP, A107–126-BC-GFP, A127–146-BC-GFP, and A147–170-BC-GFP). In the A97–106-BC-GFP expressor, GFP fluorescence was not detected, whereas the other expressors showed significant GFP fluorescence (Fig. 5B). Consistent with these results is the fact that the A97–106-BC-GFP expressor did not have detectable amounts of the fusion protein, whereas the expressors for the other parts of the A domain accumulated significant amounts of the fusion proteins (Fig. 5C). Accordingly, the chlorophyll a to b ratio was similar to that of wild type in the A97–106-BC-GFP expressor. In contrast, the chlorophyll a to b ratios decreased to ∼2.0 in the other expressors, which did not contain the sequence from Gln-97 to His-106. Taken together, we conclude that the 10-amino acid sequence QDLLTIIMILH in the A domain is the degradation signal sequence. We designated it the CAO degron.  [[FIGURE]] Subsequently, we tested whether the CAO degron regulates degradation of proteins other than CAO. We fused the CAO degron to GFP and expressed the protein (A97–106-GFP) in wild type and ch1-1 (Fig. 6A). As a control, we expressed the fusion of the sequence from Asp-107 to Val-126 with GFP (A107–126-GFP) in wild type and ch1-1 (Fig. 6A). Expression of GFP alone in the chloroplast resulted in strong GFP fluorescence in entire chloroplasts (Fig. 6B, d and h) of the wild type and ch1-1 backgrounds. The A107–126-GFP expressor also showed significant GFP fluorescence (Fig. 6B, b and f). In contrast, when the CAO degron was fused to GFP, the GFP signal was detected neither in the wild type nor ch1-1 (Fig. 6B, a and e). There was a notable difference in GFP fluorescence of the A97–106-GFP and A-GFP constructs when expressed in ch1-1: GFP fluorescence was detected in the A-GFP expressor but not in the A97–106-GFP expressor (Fig. 6, e and g). The results of the CLSM analysis were consistent with the immunoblot analysis. The A-GFP expressor accumulated a substantial amount of the A-GFP protein, whereas the A97–106-GFP expressor did not accumulate detectable protein levels (Fig. 6C). These results demonstrate that the CAO degron functions as a degradation signal sequence for proteins other than CAO. Our data also suggest that the other part of the A domain is necessary to confer chlorophyll b dependence of the degradation process.  [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined whether the other sequences similar to the CAO degron participated in the regulation of protein stability in the chloroplast. In order to find such sequences, we first searched the Arabidopsis protein data base for sequences similar to the CAO degron, using the Patmatch program at the web site of the Arabidopsis Information Resource. We did not find any sequences that matched more than 7 residues of the 10 CAO degron residues. There were six sequences that matched the CAO degron with 7 residues. However, these proteins are all predicted to localize outside of the chloroplast. Therefore, these sequences may not function as degrons. These results are not surprising because bacterial degrons are not strictly conserved, as described above (CITATION). When we allowed various patterns of mismatches in our sequence search, we obtained a greater number of sequences using the Arabidopsis protein data base. For example, if we searched the data base with “QXLLTJMJLX” as a query (where X denotes any residue, and J denotes any hydrophobic residue) and if we allowed 2 mismatches for the search, we found that 1,343 sequences matched these conditions. In these 1,343 sequences, we found that CP47, a core subunit of photosystem II (CITATION), contains a sequence similar to the CAO degron. This sequence shares four identical amino acids and common features with the CAO degron, containing a charged residue followed by a stretch of hydrophobic residues and ending with a histidine residue (Fig. 7A). We tentatively named this sequence the CP47 degron-like sequence (DEGCP47). The sequence locates near the N terminus of CP47. To examine whether the amino acid sequence functions as a degron, we made a transgenic plant that expressed GFP fused with DEGCP47 (DEGCP47-GFP) (Fig. 7B).  [[FIGURE]] In order to determine the level of DEGCP47-GFP, we carried out confocal microscopy and immunoblot analyses. The GFP fluorescent signal in the DEGCP47 expressor was substantially lower than those of B-GFP or GFP expressors (Fig. 7C), but it was higher than that in A97–106-GFP expressor. By immunoblotting analysis, we estimated that the level of the GFP fusion protein in the DEGCP47 expressor was about 5% of the GFP expressor (Fig. 7D). These results indicate that DEGCP47 functions as a weak degron in the chloroplast. 
!~MM~! The wild ecotype Columbia and the chlorina1-1 (ch1-1) mutant (CITATION) of Arabidopsis thaliana plants were used for the transformation. For propagation, plants were germinated on soil and grown at 23 °C under continuous light conditions (white fluorescent light at 40–60 mmol m−2 s−1). For analysis of transgenic plants, seeds were germinated on plates containing half-strength Murashige-Skoog medium (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Osaka, Japan), 0.7% (w/v) agar, and 50 mg/liter kanamycin. Plants were grown for 1 week at 23 °C under continuous light conditions.  In order to express CAO-GFP fusion proteins, we modified the plasmid vector that was constructed in our previous study (CITATION). The vector contained the cauliflower mosaic virus 35 S promoter, the tobacco mosaic virus ω sequence, the GFP (S65T) sequence (provided by Dr. Niwa, University of Shizuoka) (CITATION), and the nopaline terminator in the backbone of pGreenII-0029 (provided by R. P. Hellens and P. Mullineaux (John Innes Centre)) (CITATION). The GFP (S65T) gene in this plasmid was fused with transgenes (the full-length or truncated CAO cDNA sequences) at the SalI and NotI sites. The plasmids were subsequently transformed into an Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV2260) by electroporation using a cuvette with a 1-mm gap at 25 microfarads and 1.8 kV. Wild-type Arabidopsis and the ch1-1 mutant (CITATION) were transformed by the vacuum infiltration, as described, by Bechtold and Pelletier (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected on agar plates containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin as described above. Lines that showed elevated accumulation of GFP fusion proteins were selected, and their progenies (the third generation) were subjected for further analysis.  Ten milligrams of rosette leaves were homogenized with 100 μl of extraction buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 6.8, 2 mm EDTA, 10% (w/v) glycerol, 2% (w/v) SDS, and 6% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol). Homogenates were centrifuged at 10,000 × g for 3 min, and supernatants (25 μl) were subjected to 12.5% (w/v) polyacrylamide SDS-PAGE separation. Subsequently, the resolved proteins were electroblotted onto a Hybond-P membrane (GE Healthcare). The CAO-GFP transferred proteins were detected with an anti-GFP rabbit primary antibody (Invitrogen) and an anti-CAO rabbit primary antiserum that was raised against the recombinant Arabidopsis CAO polypeptide (Trp120–Val516) produced in Escherichia coli in our laboratory. Anti-rabbit IgG linked to horseradish peroxidase (GE Healthcare) was used as a secondary antibody. The horseradish peroxidase activity was detected using the ECL Plus Western blotting detection system (GE Healthcare), following the manufacturer's protocol.  Fluorescence images were recorded at the Nikon Imaging Centre at Hokkaido University on a C1si Spectral Imaging confocal laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM) system with a TE2000-E Inverted microscope (Nikon Corp., Tokyo, Japan). The microscope was equipped with a Nikon CFI60 objective lens series plan apochromat ×100, numerical aperture 1.40 oil immersion type lens (Nikon Corp.). An argon laser (25 milliwatts) was used to generate an excitation source at 488 nm, and GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence were recorded at 500–550 and 600–680 nm, respectively. Images were processed with EZ-C1 Viewer 3.20 (Nikon Corp.). The gain levels of fluorescence intensity for each image were as follows: A107–126-GFP images (Fig. 6), 70; GFP images (Fig. 6), 40; DEGCP47-GFP (Fig. 7), 70; B-GFP and GFP images (Fig. 7), 40; other images, 150.  Chlorophyll was extracted from rosette leaves of A. thaliana using acetone. Extracts were centrifuged at 15,000 × g for 10 min at 20 °C. The supernatant was diluted with water to a final acetone concentration of 80% and subjected to high pressure liquid chromatography analysis. Pigments were separated on an octadodecyl column (Shim-pack CLC-ODS column, 6.0 × 150 mm) (Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan) and eluted with methanol at a flow rate of 1.7 ml/min. Elution profiles were monitored by measuring absorbance at 650 nm. Chlorophyll contents were quantified from the chromatographic peak area.  Random mutagenesis was carried out by combining the methods of random PCR (CITATION) and of hydroxylamine treatment (CITATION). The cloned CAO cDNA from Arabidopsis leaves was PCR-amplified using 30 pmol of primers (caoFor2, TCTTGCGTCGACATGAACGCCGCCGTGTTT; caoRev2, ACCGTCCGCGGCCGCTTAGCCGGAGAAAGG), 7 mm MgCl2, 0.5 mm MnCl2, 10 mm Tris-HCl, 50 mm KCl, 0.2 mm dATP, 0.2 mm dGTP, 1.0 mm dCTP, 1.0 mm dTTP, and 5 units/μl Taq DNA polymerase (Sigma). PCR was performed for 35 cycles at 94 °C for 1 min, 45 °C for 1 min, and 72 °C for 1min. PCR products were separated on a 1% agarose gel and visualized by the SyberSafe DNA gel stain (Invitrogen) and extracted using the QIAquick gel extraction kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Extracted DNA (∼1 μg) was treated with 1 m hydroxylamine (adjusted to pH 5 with NaOH) at 70 °C for 8 h. Treated DNA was kept at room temperature for 30 min and was separated on 1% agarose gel and extracted again as described above. DNA was then incorporated into the pGreen-II MH binary vector (CITATION), containing the sequences encoding the B and C domains of CAO and GFP. The constructs were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of ch1-1 as described above. 
