!~ABS~! In shade‐intolerant plants such as Arabidopsis, a reduction in the red/far‐red (R/FR) ratio, indicative of competition from other plants, triggers a suite of responses known as the shade avoidance syndrome (SAS). The phytochrome photoreceptors measure the R/FR ratio and control the SAS. The phytochrome‐interacting factors 4 and 5 (PIF4 and PIF5) are stabilized in the shade and are required for a full SAS, whereas the related bHLH factor HFR1 (long hypocotyl in FR light) is transcriptionally induced by shade and inhibits this response. Here we show that HFR1 interacts with PIF4 and PIF5 and limits their capacity to induce the expression of shade marker genes and to promote elongation growth. HFR1 directly inhibits these PIFs by forming non‐DNA‐binding heterodimers with PIF4 and PIF5. Our data indicate that PIF4 and PIF5 promote SAS by directly binding to G‐boxes present in the promoter of shade marker genes, but their action is limited later in the shade when HFR1 accumulates and forms non‐DNA‐binding heterodimers. This negative feedback loop is important to limit the response of plants to shade.
!~RES~! The bHLH transcription factors, PIF4 and PIF5, are necessary for a complete shade avoidance response, whereas the related bHLH protein HFR1 is involved in a negative mechanism that prevents an excessive shade avoidance response (CITATION; CITATION). To gain mechanistic insight into the regulatory network of these bHLH class transcription factors, we first studied the genetic interaction between mutants defective for these proteins. We generated all possible mutant combinations between hfr1, pif4 and pif5, and studied their growth under high and low R/FR (to simulate shade) keeping photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) constant. We concentrated our analysis on hfr1, pif4pif5 and the hfr1pif4pif5 triple mutant, because pif4pif5 has a more severe phenotype than each single mutant (CITATION). hfr1pif4 and hfr1pif5 double mutants essentially showed intermediate phenotypes between the two parental lines (data not shown). All tested genotypes were grown for 4 days in high R/FR condition then either kept in the same condition or transferred to low R/FR condition for additional 4.5 days. The wild type, hfr1, pif4pif5 and hfr1pif4pif5 responded to low R/FR condition with elongation of the hypocotyls (FIG-REF). As previously reported, the pif mutants had the opposite phenotype of hfr1 in low R/FR shade‐mimicking conditions; pif4pif5 had a shorter hypocotyl and hfr1 displayed an elongated hypocotyl compared with the wild type. An analysis of the triple mutant showed that the pif4pif5 was largely epistatic over the hfr1 mutant phenotype. This experiment confirmed that a reduction in the R/FR ratio still induced elongation of the hypocotyl in pif4pif5, indicating that, in addition to PIF4 and PIF5, other pathways also promote SAS (FIG-REF; CITATION). The recently discovered TAA1 aminotransferase and members of the homeodomain leucine zipper class II transcription factors are good candidates for this (see Discussion section for details; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Changes in the R/FR ratio have profound effects on gene expression (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We analysed the expression of the early shade marker genes PIL1, coding for a PIF‐related transcription factor (CITATION), and XTR7, coding for a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase‐related protein, by quantitative PCR (Q‐PCR). We chose XTR7 because its levels respond rapidly to shade and it encodes a protein that is presumably directly related to the cell elongation process (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments demonstrated that PIL1 and XTR7 are direct targets of PIF4 and PIF5 (CITATION; see below). Both genes were expressed at low levels in high R/FR condition in all genotypes. In response to low R/FR condition, the expression of PIL1 and XTR7 was induced in all tested genotypes. In pif4pif5 prolonged growth in low R/FR condition led to a reduced induction of their expression, whereas in the hfr1 mutant this induction was more pronounced than in the wild type (FIG-REF). Interestingly, as for the growth response, the gene expression response of hfr1pif4pif5 was more similar to that of pif4pif5 than hfr1 (FIG-REF). HFR1 expression is reduced in low R/FR‐grown pif4pif5 (CITATION). In our conditions, HFR1 was expressed at about 50% of the wild‐type levels (Supplementary Figure S1). The reduced expression of HFR1 in pif4pif5 can contribute, but not fully explain the epistatic relationship observed here (see Discussion section for details). Simulated shade leads to very rapid changes in the expression of shade marker genes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This response is gated by the circadian clock (CITATION; CITATION). We thus analysed shade‐induced changes in gene expression in seedlings that were synchronized by growth in a 12:12 daynight cycle. We followed the expression of PIL1 and XTR7 directly upon transfer from high to low R/FR conditions. Both PIL1 and XTR7 were rapidly induced in the wild type and hfr1 mutant. In the hfr1 mutant, the induction was more pronounced but the most striking feature was the previously reported reduced downregulation of expression of these genes after prolonged exposure to low R/FR condition (FIG-REF; CITATION). The effect of HFR1 on shade‐regulated gene expression is not as pronounced as what was reported previously (CITATION). This is most probably because of the different protocols used to study shade avoidance. In our study, we maintained constant PAR and only changed the R/FR ratio, whereas in a previous study, simulated shade conditions were obtained with a combination of red, blue and FR LED lights, which led both to changes in PAR and R/FR ratio (CITATION). A direct comparison of the two protocols showed that they induce a different SAS for gene expression and hypocotyl elongation (data not shown). Consistent with our previous observations, the expression of PIL1 and XTR7 was markedly reduced in low R/FR‐grown pif4pif5 double mutants (FIG-REF; CITATION). Importantly, the hfr1pif4pif5 triple mutant had essentially the same phenotype as pif4pif5 (FIG-REF). Interestingly, the shade‐induced expression of IAA19 and IAA29, which depends on the TAA1 pathway, is still robustly induced in pif4pif5 (Supplementary Figure S2). However, the level of these genes was reduced in high R/FR‐grown pif4pif5 and hfr1pif4pif5 (Supplementary Figure S2). Finally, same effects on shade‐induced gene expression were observed when these genotypes were grown in continuous light before a change in light quality (Supplementary Figure S3). These genetic data led us to hypothesize that HFR1 may inhibit PIF4 and PIF5 during the response to shade and thus limit the shade avoidance response particularly after a prolonged exposure to low R/FR. [[FIGURE]] bHLH class transcription factors function as homo‐ and/or heterodimers. Moreover, it has been reported previously that HFR1 interacts with PIF3 in vitro and in the yeast two‐hybrid assay (CITATION). We thus tested whether HFR1 interacted with PIF4 and PIF5 by co‐immunoprecipitation of in vitro‐transcribed and ‐translated proteins. As a control for specificity, we included a modified version of HFR1 (HFR1*), which contains a substitution of two conserved residues in the HLH domain (Val 172 Leu 173 to Asp 172 Glu 173) (Supplementary Figure S4A). On the basis of a previous study, these substitutions are expected to interfere with the dimerization properties of the HLH domain (CITATION). Homology modelling of the wild type and mutant versions of HFR1 supported this prediction (data not shown). Co‐immunoprecipitation showed that HFR1 interacted with PIF4 and PIF5, whereas no specific binding of HFR1* to PIF4 or PIF5 was detected (FIG-REF). These data show that HFR1 specifically interacted with PIF4 and PIF5, and that this interaction critically depended on two residues in the HLH domain (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To confirm this interaction in plant cells, we used the Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BIFC) assay in transiently transformed onion epidermal cells. The N‐ and C‐terminal halves of YFP were fused to the C‐terminus of PIF4, PIF5, HFR1 and HFR1*. As a transformation control, these cells were co‐transformed with a soluble DsRed construct, and DsRed‐positive cells were monitored for YFP fluorescence. HFR1 interacted with PIF4 and PIF5 in this assay and as expected the YFP fluorescence was detected in the nuclei of transformed cells (FIG-REF). In contrast, cells transformed with HFR1* and either PIF4 or PIF5 were not YFP positive, again indicating that two conserved residues of the HFR1 HLH domain are important for dimerization (FIG-REF). Finally, co‐immunoprecipitation using double transgenic lines carrying PIF5‐HA and HFR1‐Flag showed the interaction of HFR1 with PIF5 in Arabidopsis plants (FIG-REF). The facts that HFR1 and PIF4/PIF5 had an opposite effect on the expression of shade marker genes and that these proteins dimerized raised the possibility that HFR1 may inhibit PIF‐mediated gene expression by forming heterodimers. To test this possibility, we used a transient expression system with Arabidopsis cell cultures. We used 2 kb of the PIL1 promoter containing three G‐boxes fused the glucuronidase gene (GUS) as a reporter (FIG-REF). Effector constructs for PIF5, HFR1 and HFR1* were expressed under the control of the 2 × CaMV 35S promoter and co‐bombarded with the reporter construct and a transformation reference plasmid (2 × CaMV 35S promoter:LUC) (FIG-REF). Transformation with PIF5 resulted in a strong stimulation of the PIL1 reporter activity, which depended on the presence of the G‐boxes in the promoter sequence (FIG-REF). This result is consistent with our genetic data indicating that PIF5 is a positive regulator of PIL1 expression (FIG-REF and FIG-REF; CITATION). Transformation with HFR1 or HFR1* alone had a minor effect on reporter expression (FIG-REF). The co‐expression of PIF5 and HFR1 limited PIF5‐mediated PIL1 expression. Importantly, co‐transformation with HFR1* did not affect the transactivation activity of PIF5 (FIG-REF), strongly suggesting that HFR1 inhibits PIF5‐mediated transcription by forming heterodimers. In agreement with this finding, transgenic lines carrying HFR1* under the control of the 35S promoter did not complement the hfr1 phenotype, whereas wild‐type HFR1 slightly overcomplemented the hfr1 phenotype (Supplementary Figure S4). These data confirm the functional importance of the HFR1 dimerization capacity. [[FIGURE]] Several possibilities could explain how HFR1 inhibits PIF‐mediated expression of shade marker genes. HFR1 PIF heterodimers may be unable to bind DNA and/or such dimers could have reduced transactivation activity. Given that the basic domain of HFR1 is unusual and has been suggested to be incompatible with binding to a G‐box (CITATION), we first tested whether HFR1 PIF dimers are capable of binding to a piece of the PIL1 promoter containing a G‐box using homology modelling. Our analysis predicted binding of the PIF5 homodimer to the CACGTG G‐box present in the PIL1 promoter. The basic region of PIF5 made direct contact with the major groove of the DNA molecule at the level of the G‐box centre (Supplementary Figure S5). Several important interactions occurred between the PIF5 protein and the PIL1 promoter. Glu 266 made hydrogen bonds to the adenine ring that faces the T base of the CACGTG G‐box, whereas Arg 270 interacted with the backbone and the guanine ring of the first G of the G‐box. In addition, Arg 267 and Arg 269 made ionic interactions with the backbone of both the central CG bases of the G‐box, and the PIF5 Glu 266 side chain and the backbone of the DNA strand facing the CACGTG G‐box, respectively. A structural model of the HFR1 DNA complex suggested that compared with PIF5 DNA, several key protein DNA interactions were either lost or were unfavorable in HFR1 DNA. In the HFR1 homodimer or HFR1 PIF5 heterodimer, residues Glu 266 and Arg 270 in PIF5 are replaced by Arg 143 and Asp 147 in HFR1, respectively (Supplementary Figure S5). These drastic modifications inverse the charges of corresponding residues and strongly diminish the possibility of interaction taking place between the protein and the G‐box. In the model structures of the HFR1 homo‐ and heterodimer complexes with DNA, Asp 147 did not make any contact with the promoter, whereas Arg 143 made interactions with the backbone and the guanine ring of the first G base of the G‐box. This modified scheme of interactions between PIF5 DNA and HFR1 DNA suggested that the HFR1 PIF5 heterodimer does not form a stable interaction with the G‐box. Identical conclusions were reached by analysing PIF4 PIF4 homodimers and PIF4 HFR1 heterodimers (data not shown). To test these predictions biochemically, we performed Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays (EMSA) with a fragment of the PIL1 promoter containing the two closely spaced G‐boxes (FIG-REF) and in vitro‐transcribed and ‐translated HFR1, HFR1*, PIF4 and PIF5. PIF4 specifically bound to the G‐box in the PIL1 promoter, as demonstrated with competition experiments using wild‐type and G‐box mutant probes (FIG-REF; CITATION). Similar data were obtained for PIF5 except that two complexes of different sizes could be detected raising the possibility that PIF5 could simultaneously bind to both G‐boxes in the DNA probe (FIG-REF). Finally, confirming our in silico predictions, HFR1 was not able to bind to the PIL1 promoter (FIG-REF lane 9). To test whether HFR1 could interfere with PIF4 and PIF5 DNA binding, HFR1 and either PIF4 or PIF5 were co‐produced by in vitro transcription/translation reactions and used for EMSA assays. These experiments showed that HFR1 inhibited the capacity of PIF4 and PIF5 to bind DNA (FIG-REF). Importantly, when PIF4 or PIF5 were co‐produced with HFR1*, the non‐heterodimerizing HFR1 variant did not interfere with PIF DNA binding (FIG-REF). Equal protein production of the different bHLH proteins was verified by labelling the in vitro transcription translation reactions with 35S Met (Supplementary Figure S6). Our biochemical experiments thus confirmed that HFR1 inhibits PIF4 and PIF5 from binding to the G‐boxes in the PIL1 promoter by forming non‐DNA‐binding heterodimers with these transcription factors. Importantly, these G‐boxes are required for PIF5‐mediated pPIL1::GUS expression (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Our data suggest that PIF4 and PIF5 regulate shade marker gene expression by directly binding to G‐boxes present in those promoters (FIG-REF). PIF4 has been shown to bind to the promoter of PIL1 and XTR7 (CITATION). We analysed the binding of PIF5 to promoters of HFR1, XTR7 and PIL1 by ChIP using plants constitutively expressing PIF5‐HA (CITATION). For controls, we used wild‐type Col plants and HFR1‐HA‐expressing plants. ChIP performed with an anti‐HA epitope antibody was followed by Q‐PCR to compare the binding to a part of the promoter containing a G‐box with a part of the same gene devoid of a G‐box. We observed significant binding of PIF5‐HA, but not HFR1‐HA (up to 1% of the input DNA on the HFR1 promoter) specifically to the G‐box‐containing fragment of HFR1, PIL1 and XTR7 (FIG-REF). The fraction of DNA co‐immunoprecipitated with PIF5‐HA was consistently higher for HFR1 than XTR7 (FIG-REF; data not shown). However, in all three genes tested, the difference between PIF5‐HA and HFR1‐HA was very large (FIG-REF). Consistent with our in vitro experiments, these data indicate that PIF5‐HA, but not HFR1‐HA, directly bound to the G‐box present in the promoter regions of HFR1, PIL1 and XTR7 (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia, were surface sterilized and either plated on 1/2 strength MS, 0.7% phytagar (Murashige and Skoog medium, GIBCO 23118‐037) or directly onto soil. After 3 days of growth at 4°C, plants were grown at 22°C in a Percival Scientific Model I‐66L with or without supplementary FR (λmax=739 nm; Quantum Device, USA) diodes. Fluence rates were determined using an International light IL1400A photometer equipped with an SEL033 probe with appropriate light filters. The ratios of R/FR were: high=17, low=0.25. PAR was constant at 60 μmol m−2 s−1. The double mutant pif4pif5 has been described previously by CITATION. The triple mutant was obtained by crossing the pif4pif5 double mutant with hfr1‐101 and genotyping was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Hypocotyl length measurement was achieved using ImageJ software. To generate plants expressing tagged versions of PIF5 and HFR1, we transformed PIF5‐HA‐expressing plants (CITATION) with a construct coding for HFR1 with a triple Flag tag under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus promoter 35S. A Flag‐tagged HFR1 was generated by PCR using the primers pSP05 and pPH24 with the full‐length HFR1 cDNA as a template. The PCR product was digested with KpnI and SacI, and introduced into pSL35 (pBSIISK+ (Invitrogen) containing a triple Flag tag) to generate pSL30. HFR1‐3 × Flag was then sub‐cloned into the pCHF6 binary vector to generate pSL33. This construct was transformed into PIF5‐3 × HA‐overexpressing Arabidopsis plants by the Agrobacterium dipping method. Transformants with a 3:1 segregation ratio were self‐fertilized, and homogenous progeny were selected. Primer sequences are given in Supplementary Table I. RNA extraction was performed using the kit Nucleo Spin for plant RNA from Machery‐Nagel and reverse‐transcribed using the SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Q‐PCR was performed with the Power SYBR Green PCR master mix from Applied Biosystems using the ABI Prism 7900HT Sequence Detection Systems according to the manufacturer's instructions. For the relative quantification of the genes, qBase, software for management and automated analysis of real‐time Q‐PCR data was used (http://medgen.ugent.be/qbase). Each reaction was performed in triplicate using a primer concentration of 300 nM. Q‐PCR were performed using the primer pairs pPH49/pPH50 (PIL1: At2G46970); Mt121/Mt122 (XTR7: At4G14130); SL44/SL45 (HFR1: At1G02340); Mt123/Mt124 (IAA19: At3G15540); Mt157/Mt158 (IAA29: At4G32280), F_EF1α/R_EF1α (EF1α: At5G60390) and F_GAPC‐2/R_GAPC‐2 (GAPC‐2: A1G13440). Primer sequences are given in Supplementary Table I. Proteins were synthesized in the reticulocyte TNT in vitro transcription‐translation system (Promega) and labelled with 35S‐methionine according to the manufacturer's instructions. The full‐length HFR1 cDNA was cloned with BamHI linkers into pCMX‐PL1. HFR1* was generated by site‐directed mutagenesis using the primers, pPH20 and pPH21, using the QuikChange Site‐Directed Mutagenesis Kit from Stratagene. PIF4‐3 × HA was inserted using KpnI and NheI into PCMX‐PL1 and PIF5‐3 × HA was inserted using KpnI and NheI into PCMX‐PL2. All constructs were verified by sequencing. Proteins were incubated with HA‐antibodies coupled to agarose beads (anti‐HA Affinity Matrix; Roche) in binding buffer (25 mM HEPES (pH 7.5), 100 mM KCl, 0.2 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.5% NP‐40 and Sigma protease inhibitor 10 ul/ml). The beads were washed five times using the binding buffer. Specifically bound proteins were eluted with Laemmli buffer. Immunoprecipitates and input fractions were separated on 10% SDS–PAGE gels and visualized using a phosphorimager. Genes were cloned under the control of the 35S promoter and fused to either the C‐ or N‐terminal part of YFP. HFR1/HFR1* were cloned into the XbaIXhoI sites of pUC‐SPYNE (CITATION). PIF4 was cloned into XbaIXhoI sites of pUC‐SPYCE and PIF5 was cloned into SpeIXhoI sites of pUC‐SPYCE (CITATION). The resulting constructs were mixed as indicated (800 ng each) and co‐bombarded into onion cells. DNA precipitation and particle bombardment was performed using the Bio‐Rad helium‐driven particle accelerator (PDS‐1000) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Onions were kept in the dark for 16 h at 22°C to allow the expression of the transfected DNA and reconstruction of the functional YFP. All fluorescence microscopy was performed using Leica DM6000B microscope. A total of 10 mg of seeds were plated in Petri dishes and stored in the dark for 3 days at 4°C. A germinating red light treatment was given at 22°C and the plates were returned to darkness for further 3 days. Plates were then transferred to white light with high R/FR ratio for 1 h and 30 min and then in white light with a low R/FR for additional 2 h and 30 min before protein extraction. Seedlings were ground in cold mortar with protein extraction buffer (50 mM TrisHCl (pH 7.5); 100 mM NaCl; 10% glycerol; 0.1% NP‐40; 1 mM DTT; 1 × protease inhibitors (Sigma); 50 μM MG132). Soluble proteins were incubated with 40 μl of EZview red anti FlagM2 affinity gel (Sigma) beads for 1 h and 30 min at 4°C. After four washes in the protein extraction buffer, specifically bound proteins were eluted with Laemmli buffer. HRP‐conjugated anti‐HA antibodies (Roche) or Anti‐Flag M2 antibodies (Sigma) and HRP‐conjugated anti mouse antibodies (Promega) were used to detect proteins. The transactivation assays were performed as previously described by CITATION). The effector constructs carry PIF5 or HFR1/HFR1* under the control of the 2 × 35S promoter. The reporter construct carries the GUS gene driven by 2 kb of the PIL1 promoter, which was amplified using the primers pPH017 and pPH09. The triple G‐box mutant of pPIL1 (pPIL1*∷GUS) was generated by site‐directed mutagenesis using the QuikChange Site‐Directed Mutagenesis Kit from Stratagene. The double G‐Box was mutated using the primers pPH45 and pPH46, and the single G‐Box using the primers pPH47 and pPH48. A 2 × 35S∷luciferase construct was used as an internal control. Three independent experiments were carried out with three biological replica plates for each treatment. Proteins were synthesized using the TNT system (Promega). To produce PIF4 protein, full‐length PIF4 cDNA was cloned into pCMX‐PL1. Two PIF4 fragments (BclI/NcoI, NcoI/KpnI) were inserted via a three‐way ligation. Full‐length PIF5 cDNA was cloned with KpnI and NheI into pCMX‐PL2. For the DNA probe, single‐strand primers were 5′ labelled with radioactive γ‐phosphate of ATP (γ32P) using polynucleotide kinase. Forward and reverse primers, FGbox/RGbox or FGbox‐Mt/RGbox‐Mt, were annealed and purified using the Quick Spin Column (Roche). The binding reactions were performed according to CITATION). The binding complexes (45 000 c.p.m. per reaction) were resolved on a 6% polyacrylamide gel and visualized using a phosphorimager. Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (Col, 35S∷HFR1‐3 × HA (CF396) (CITATION) and 35S∷PIF5‐3 × HA (CITATION)) were plated on 1/2 strength MS, 0.7% phytagar. After 3 days at 4°C, seedlings were grown in long‐day conditions at 22°C. 10‐day‐old seedlings were shifted for 2 h into low R/FR before fixation. ChIP assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Immunoprecipitation was performed with HA‐antibodies coupled to agarose beads (Anti‐HA Affinity Matrix; Roche) and immunocomplexes were eluted from the beads using elution buffer (0.1 M NaHCO3, 1% SDS). DNA was purified with the GenElute PCR Clean up Kit from Sigma and used for the quantification of immunoprecipitated DNA by Q–PCR. Each Q–PCR reaction was performed in triplicate. The forward and reverse primer pairs used to amplify the region 1–6 are: PIL1‐region 1 (pPH78‐pPH79); PIL1‐region 2 (pPL8F‐pPL8R); XTR7‐region 3 (pPH120‐pPH121); XTR7‐region 4 (pPH130‐pPH131); HFR1‐region 5 (pPH112‐pPH113) and HFR1‐region 6 (pPH126‐pPH127). Primer sequences are given in Supplementary Table I. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
