!~ABS~! HOs (haem oxygenases) catalyse the oxidative cleavage of haem to BV (biliverdin), iron and carbon monoxide. In plants, the product of the reaction is BV IXα, the precursor of the PHY (phytochrome) chromophore and is thus essential for proper photomorphogenesis. Arabidopsis thaliana contains one major biochemically characterized HO (HY1) and three additional putative HOs (HO2, HO3 and HO4). All four proteins are encoded in the nucleus but contain chloroplast translocation sequences at their N-termini. The transit peptides of all four proteins are sufficient for chloroplast translocalization as shown by GFP (green fluorescent protein) reporter gene fusions. Overall, all four proteins can be divided into two subfamilies: HO1 and HO2. Here we show that all members of the HO1 subfamily (HY1, HO3 and HO4) are active monomeric HOs and can convert haem to BV IXα using spinach Fd (ferredoxin) as an electron donor. Addition of a second electron donor, such as ascorbate, led to a 10-fold increase in the haem conversion rate. Furthermore, haem turnover is also promoted by light when spinach thylakoids are present. All HO1 family members displayed similar kinetic parameters indicating they all have a possible involvement in PHY chromophore biosynthesis. HO2 did not yield sufficient amounts of soluble protein and therefore required the construction of a synthetic gene adapted to the codon usage of Escherichia coli. HO2 is unable to bind or degrade haem and therefore it is not a haem oxygenase. However, HO2 shows strong binding of proto IX (protoporphyrin IX), a precursor for both haem and chlorophyll biosynthesis. A possible function of HO2 in the regulation of tetrapyrrole metabolism is discussed.
!~RES~! The HY1 protein contains a functional transit peptide for plastid localization and is processed to the mature plastid HO [CITATION,CITATION]. The N-termini of HO2, HO3 and HO4, deduced from cDNA sequences, also showed features of a transit peptide when assessed using the ChloroP program ([CITATION]; http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/). The conservation of primary sequences in this region was much lower than in the HO region, also indicating that the stretches in the N-termini are transit peptides. To demonstrate the function of the putative transit peptides experimentally, we fused the potential transit peptide regions of all four Arabidopsis HO genes to a gene encoding GFP under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The constructs were introduced to N. benthamiana by agro-infection [CITATION]. GFP fluorescence was observed in oval structures in the samples in which HY1 (HO1), HO2, HO3 and HO4 constructs were introduced (Figures 2a, 2d, 2g and 2j). These signals matched the chloroplast autofluorescence (Figures 2b, 2e, 2h and 2k; see the merges in Figures 2c, 2f, 2i and 2l), demonstrating that the fusion protein was efficiently targeted to chloroplasts. A control construct without the putative transit peptide showed GFP fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 2m) that is clearly different from the red autofluorescence from the chlorophyll in chloroplasts (Figures 2n and 2o). Hence, as there are functional transit peptides in the deduced HY1, HO2, HO3 and HO4 sequences, this implies that the proteins encoded by HY1, HO2, HO3 and HO4 are present as a processed mature protein in the plastid compartment. As haem is also present in mitochondria, a mitochondrial marker (MIRO1) fused to YFP [CITATION] was observed. The YFP signals for MIRO1 are different from those of the HO proteins (Figures 2p, 2q and 2r) and therefore there is no indication of a mitochondrial localization for HO1–4 in this analysis. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis HO genes HY1, HO2, HO3 and HO4 were expressed without their predicted chloroplast transit peptides either using a tac promoter-driven, N-terminal GST fusion, expression system (for HY1 and HO2) [CITATION] or the pET vector system (for HO3 and HO4), which uses a T7-promoter and labels proteins with a C-terminal His6 tag (Figure 3A) [CITATION]. After induction with IPTG and expression overnight at 17 °C, the E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells had a brownish colour (except cells expressing HO2; results not shown). This is in contrast with the expression of bacterial or mammalian HOs in E. coli, which most often show a green colour due to BV accumulation in the cells [CITATION,CITATION–CITATION]. Therefore the lack of green colour implies that the plant HOs might not be fully active in E. coli. [[FIGURE]] HY1 was expressed and purified as described previously [CITATION] and yielded a major band migrating at approx. 27 kDa on SDS/PAGE (Figure 3B). Recombinant HO3 and HO4 contained a C-terminal His6-tag and were purified by cobalt-affinity chromatography. This purification strategy led to over 90% purity (Figure 3B). The final yield of recombinant HY1, HO3, and HO4 from 1 litre of bacterial culture was approx. 60 mg each. The proteins were stored on ice and stayed fully active for up to 4 days in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. Unfortunately, the expression and purification of recombinant HO2 yielded only low amounts of soluble protein (Figure 3B, lane 2). Therefore a synthetic gene (without the transit peptide coding region) adapted to the codon usage of E. coli K12 was generated and cloned into pGEX-6-P1. The yield from this synthetic construct was significantly higher than using the native gene (Figure 3B, lane 5) and resulted in approx. 24 mg recombinant HO2 from 1 litre of bacterial culture. As the recombinant protein migrated slightly slower than predicted in SDS/PAGE, the integrity of the recombinant protein was verified by tryptic digest followed by MALDI (matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization)–TOF (time-of-flight)/TOF MS analysis (results not shown). Whereas the majority of HOs are monomeric enzymes, others such as HO-2 from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 or HO-2 from human are dimeric [CITATION–CITATION]. To probe the oligomerization state of the Arabidopsis HOs, gel-permeation chromatography on a Superdex™ 75 HR10/30 column was performed. All four HO proteins eluted at approx. 11.5 ml as a major symmetric peak. However, whereas HY1 and HO3 showed no aggregation after purification, HO4 also displayed a minor peak at approx. 8.5 ml which was shown to be aggregated protein by SDS/PAGE (results not shown). HO2, on the other hand, displayed two minor peaks at approx. 15 ml and 18 ml, which are probable degradation products (results not shown). Under our experimental conditions and in comparison with the elution profile of standard proteins all four investigated recombinant HOs are monomeric. Arabidopsis possesses four annotated HOs with only hy1 and ho2 mutants showing strong defects in photomorphogenesis, raising the question whether the HOs differ with regard to enzyme activity. Thus we first attempted to analyse the haem-binding properties of the four HOs. The formation of the haem–HO complex was determined by absorption spectroscopy. Interestingly, only the three HOs belonging to the HO1 subfamily displayed a strong Soret band at 405 nm indicating enzyme-bound haem (Figures 4A, 4C and 4D). This Soret band is identical to that reported for HOs from other sources [CITATION,CITATION–CITATION]. Incubation of HO2 with haem did not result in a significant absorbance change or in the formation of a distinct Soret band (Figure 4B). Even after extended incubation time, no haem-binding was observed. The addition of reductant (Fd) also had no influence on the haem-binding behaviour (results not shown). As HO2 is not able to bind haem, no haem-binding constant (Kd) and no activity could be determined. For the haem-binding HOs from the HO1 subfamily, the Kd values were calculated from titration data determined by difference-absorption spectroscopy (results not shown). All three HO1 subfamily members have Kd values in the micromolar range. Whereas HY1 displayed the highest affinity of approx. 1.6 μM (in agreement with [CITATION]), HO3 and HO4 had slightly weaker affinities of 2.3 μM and 2.8 μM respectively (Table 1). All three HOs appeared to be saturated at a ratio of haem/protein of 1:1. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Extinction coefficients of the recombinant HOs were determined using the method of Berry and Trumpower [CITATION]. For HY1, HO3 and HO4 values of 203 mM−1ċcm−1, 271 mM−1ċcm−1 and 175 mM−1ċcm−1 were determined respectively (Table 1). As HO2 did not bind haem, we tested whether it will bind the structurally related haem precursor proto IX. Interestingly, not only HO2, but in fact all HOs were able to bind proto IX (Figure 5A). But, in contrast with the HOs of the HO1 subfamily, HO2 forms a stable complex with proto IX even during gel-permeation chromatography (Figure 5B). Addition of reductant had no influence on the spectroscopic characteristics of the proto IX–HO2 complex. [[FIGURE]] To determine the enzymatic turnover haem was added to HY1, HO3 and HO4 at a 2:1 ratio and free haem was removed by hydroxy-apatite column chromatography. Addition of reduced spinach Fd to the haem–HO complexes resulted in the immediate formation of the ferrous dioxyhaem complex [haem(Fe2+)–O2], which was accompanied by a shift in the Soret band from 405 nm to 410 nm and by the appearance of β-/α-bands at 540 nm and 579 nm respectively (Figure 4A). Within 30 min the ferrous dioxyhaem complex was fully degraded to ferric-BV (Figure 4A), the latter being poorly detectable spectroscopically. Therefore all subsequent assays for HO3 and HO4 contained the iron-chelator desferrioxamine and a broad peak between 650 nm and 670 nm was observed indicating the formation of free BV (Figures 4C and 4D; note that under these conditions β-/α-bands are not observed). Release of CO from the HOs was assayed by the addition of myoglobin to the HO assay which gave a characteristic carbon monoxide-bound myoglobin spectrum [CITATION] (results not shown). As HOs are regiospecific enzymes the reaction products can be one of the four possible BV isomers. It has been shown previously that the IXα isomer is the product of the HY1 reaction, which is subsequently converted to the PHY chromophore 3Z-PΦB by PΦB synthase [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. However, HOs with other regiospecificities are known from bacteria and insects [CITATION,CITATION]. Thus the reaction products of the three Arabidopsis HOs were analysed by HPLC. Like HY1, Arabidopsis HO3 and HO4 produced the BV IXα isomer with a retention time of approx. 20 min (Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] The pH optimum for the HO activities was pH 7.0 for HO3 and pH 7.25 for HY1 and HO4 (Figure 7A). All three proteins are more active in the basic pH region than at acid pH values (Figure 7A); the pH optimum of HY1 is identical to that previously determined [CITATION]. The relative enzyme activity increased between 10 °C and 45 °C (Figure 7B). An Arrhenius plot was used to calculate the individual activation energies (Ea) for each reaction. Whereas the Ea for the HY1 reaction is known to be 35.60 Jċmol−1 [CITATION], an Ea of 14.78 Jċmol−1 and 10.76 Jċmol−1 was calculated for HO3 and HO4 respectively. [[FIGURE]] Kinetic parameters for purified HO3 and HO4 were estimated from Eadie–Hofstee plots, without ascorbate to slow the reaction (see below; results not shown). Km values of 2.7 μM (HO3) and 5.7 μM (HO4) were determined and are comparable with those of other HOs [CITATION]. For HY1, the Km value of 1.3 μM was published previously [CITATION]. A second reductant is known to increase enzyme activity of cyanobacterial and algal HOs as well as HY1 [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. We therefore tested the effect of ascorbate on HO3 and HO4 turnover. For both enzymes, turnover of haem is 10-fold higher with ascorbate compared with reactions without ascorbate (shown for HO3 in Figure 8; note that under high-turnover assay conditions with ascorbate the ferrous dioxyhaem complex is not visible). [[FIGURE]] For HY1 it has been demonstrated previously that the primary electron donor in vivo is Fd [CITATION]. Given all Arabidopsis HOs possess a transit peptide sequence and are localized to the chloroplast (Figure 2), Fd, receiving electrons from PSI (photosystem I), is probably the natural electron donor. Addition of isolated thylakoid membranes to the HO assay significantly increased the cleavage of haem to BV after illumination (Figure 9A). In the presence of the electron-transport inhibitor DCMU, BV formation decreases to a relative activity of about 20% (Figure 9B). In this scenario cyclic electron flow does not result in net production of reduced Fd, and subsequent haem turnover. Addition of reduced DCIP, an artificial electron donor, to the DCMU-blocked assay resulted in an increased BV formation, as reduced DCIP is able to reduce PSI (Figure 9B). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All chemicals were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich and met or exceeded the American Chemical Society specifications. HPLC-grade acetone and 80% (v/v) formic acid were purchased from Mallinckrodt Baker. The coding regions for the putative transit peptide for HY1 (HO1), HO2, HO3, and HO4 were amplified from Arabidopsis (Columbia) cDNA with the following primers: for HY1, 5′-CGGGATCCCACCATGGCGTATTTAGCTCCGA-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGGCAGTAGTAGCCGCAACCA-3′; for HO2, 5′-CGGGATCCCACCATGGCTTCTCTTCTCAGGC-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGTGTGAGGCCTTTTGTTGTGA-3′; for HO3, 5′-CGGGATCCCACCATGGCTACAACAAGACTTAAC-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGATAGCCGCCGCAGTCACC-3′; and for HO4, 5′-CGGGATCCCACCATGGCTACATCAAGACTTAATGC-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGGCCACAACATTCACCACCA-3′. The amplified DNA fragments were digested with BamHI and XhoI and then cloned into the corresponding sites of pENTR™1A vector (Invitrogen) to produce the entry clones. The entry clone for intact GFP was prepared by self-ligation of pENTR™1A, digested with XmnI and EcoRV. After verification of the orientation and the nucleotide sequences, a recombination reaction was performed between the entry clones and the destination vector pGWB5 [CITATION] using LR Clonase (Invitrogen) to generate an in-frame fusion with the GFP reporter gene under the CaMV (cauliflower mosaic virus) 35S promoter. The plasmid pGWB42-MIRO1TM for the mitochondrial marker YFP (yellow fluorescent protein)–MIRO1 [CITATION] was obtained from Dr Yamaoka (University of Tokyo, Japan). The transient assays of fluorescent protein expression in Nicotiana benthamiana were performed as described in [CITATION] by using Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 pGV2260. After 36 h of co-cultivation in the dark, the signals for GFP and chloroplast autofluorescence were examined under a confocal microscope (FluoView 1000, Olympus). A synthetic gene encoding the mature (without the predicted transit peptide sequence) HO2 was adapted to the codon bias of Escherichia coli genes to provide a successful expression. The synthetic gene, HO2syn, of 738 bp was assembled from synthetic oligonucleotides (Geneart GmbH) with addition of a 5′ BamHI and a 3′ XhoI restriction site respectively. After cleavage with the respective enzymes the artificial gene was cloned into pGEX-6P-1 to generate pGEX-mHO2 (GE Healthcare). HY1 was produced and purified using the plasmid pGEX-mHY1 as described previously [CITATION] with minor modifications. The purified mature (without the predicted transit peptide) HY1 was dialysed against 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. The same protocol was used for the expression and purification of mature HO2syn, except that its GST (glutathione transferase)-fusion has a recognition sequence for the PreScission® protease instead of for thrombin. The pET24a-mHO3 and pET24a-mHO4 plasmids for expressing recombinant C-terminally His6-tagged mature HO3 and HO4 production were a gift from by Dr R.D.Vierstra (University of Wisconsin, Madison, U.S.A.). An overview of the employed constructs is given in Figure 3(A). For production of recombinant HO3 and HO4, 2 litres of LB (Luria–Bertani) media containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin was inoculated at a dilution of 1:100 from an overnight culture of E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) carrying the respective plasmid constructs and were grown at 37 °C to an approx. D578 of 0.6–0.8. After a temperature shift to 17 °C, protein production was induced by the addition of 125 μM IPTG (isopropyl β-D-thiogalactoside), and cells were cultured for additional 15 h with shaking at 180 rev./min. Afterwards cells were harvested by centrifugation (13000 g for 15 min) and stored at −20 °C. Cell lysis and disruption were performed as described previously [CITATION]. The supernatant was loaded on a Talon®-cobalt-affinity chromatography column (Clontech) and subsequent washing and elution steps were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. Proteins were eluted with a buffer containing 75 mM imidazole. The protein solutions were pooled and dialysed against reaction buffer (100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2). The oligomerization state of the four enzymes was investigated using analytical gel-permeation chromatography. A Superdex™ 75 HR10/30 column (GE Healthcare), equilibrated with 100 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.2, at a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min, was employed. Protein was monitored by absorbance at 280 nm using the UV-900 detector of an AEKTA-explorer system (GE Healthcare). Standard proteins, with known molecular mass (in kDa: apoferritin, 443.0; β-amylase, 200.0; alcohol dehydrogenase, 150.0; albumin, 66.0; carboanhydrase, 29.0; and cytochrome c, 12.4), were used to generate a calibration curve from which the quaternary structure was calculated. Crystalline haemin (15 mg) was dissolved in 5 ml of DMSO to generate a 4.6 mM haemin solution. Haemin was added to the purified HOs to give a final 2:1 haem/protein ratio. The sample was subsequently applied to a hydroxylapatite column (1.0 cm×2.0 cm; resin from Fluka) which was equilibrated with 10 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. The column was then washed with the same buffer until no more free haem could be detected spectrophotometrically, and the protein was eluted with 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. The fractions containing detectable haem–HO complex (at A280 and A405) were pooled and concentrated using a Vivaspin® (Vivascience) concentrator at 40000 g. The concentration of the recombinantly produced HOs was determined using the molar extinction coefficient (ε280) calculated from the deduced amino acid composition [CITATION]. Titration of HOs with haem was monitored by absorption spectroscopy. Aliquots of haem (0.58–10.0 μM) were added to the cuvette containing 5 μM HO at 25 °C and spectra were recorded 5 min after haem addition. The same haem concentrations were added to a sample cuvette containing only buffer as a control. The Kd value was obtained from the difference between spectra of free haem and protein-bound haem at 405 nm. The millimolar extinction coefficient at 405 nm for the haem–HO complex was determined using the pyridine haemochrome method [CITATION]. The isolated haem–HO complex (10 μM) was converted to a pyridine-haemochrome in a 500 μl sample volume by addition of 62.5 μl of pyridine and 62.5 μl of 0.5 M NaOH solution. The spectrum of the oxidized pyridine haemochrome was recorded. After addition of an excess of dithionite the spectrum of the reduced ferrous pyridine haemochrome was recorded. The difference spectrum of the reduced and oxidized form was calculated at 557 nm. The concentration of haem was determined from the extinction coefficient (ε405=34.530 mM−1ċcm−1). HO activity was measured in 500 μl (final volume) of a solution containing 10 μM HO, 10 μM haem, 0.15 mg/ml BSA, 4.6 μM Fd (spinach), 0.025 unit/ml spinach Fd-NADP+ oxidoreductase and 10 μM catalase from Aspergillus niger in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. The reaction was started by addition of an NADPH-regenerating system containing 6.5 mM glucose 6-phosphate, 0.82 mM NADP+, and 1.1 units/ml glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Spectral changes between 300 and 900 nm were monitored for 30 min at 25 °C using an Agilent Technologies 8453 UV–visible spectroscopy system. Sodium ascorbate and/or desferrioxamine were added to a final concentration of 5 mM unless otherwise noted. The rate of BV IXα formation at 25 °C was calculated using the absorbance change at 670 nm. The concentration of BV IXα was estimated using an extinction coefficient at 670 nm of 6.25 mM−1ċcm−1 in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, determined from published values of other solvents [CITATION]. Km values were calculated for the HOs using Eadie–Hofstee and Lineweaver–Burk plots (the standard assays with 10 μM HO, and various haem concentrations between 1 μM and 100 μM, were used). Temperature dependence of the HO reaction was measured between 10 °C and 45 °C. The activation energy (Ea) was calculated based on an Arrhenius plot. The pH dependence of the reaction was monitored between pH 5.0 and 9.0 in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer and for all assays the standard conditions as described above were used. Fresh spinach leaves (25 g) were added to 35 ml of digestion buffer [50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7, containing 0.4 M sucrose, 20 mM KCl and 0.5 mM KH2PO4) and homogenized for 5 min. The homogenized leaves were then filtered through a fleece cloth and the filtrate centrifuged at 40000 g for 5 min, The pellet was resuspended in 10 ml of digestion buffer. After a second centrifugation step at 40000 g for 5 min, the pellet was resuspended in 5 ml buffer (100 mM Hepes, pH 8.0, containing 0.66 M sucrose, 40 mM KCl, 3 mM KH2PO4 and 4 mM MgCl2) and 5 ml of H2O. The chlorophyll content of these crude membranes was calculated as described previously [CITATION]. For the HO assay, 10 μM HO–haem complex was incubated with 0.15 mg/ml BSA, 4.6 μM Fd (spinach), 5 mM sodium ascorbate, 5 mM tiron and isolated thylakoid membranes (containing 10 μg of chlorophyll) in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, either in the dark or for 100 s in the dark followed by irradiation for 200 s with 460 Wċm−2 of actinic white light. Absorbance was measured at 680 nm and HO activity was calculated by the rate of absorbance change at this wavelength. The reaction was inhibited with 50 μM DCMU (dichlorophenyldimethylurea) or 50 μM DCMU and 200 μM reduced DCIP (dichloroindophenol). DCIP was reduced using 0.1 mM HCl and 5 mM ascorbate prior to use. HO assay mixtures were acidified with 10-fold 0.1% TFA (trifluoroacetic acid) and loaded on to a Waters C18- Sep-Pak light cartridge which had been preconditioned twice with the following sequence of solutions: 3 ml of acetonitrile, to wet the Sep-Pak; 3 ml of MilliQ water; 3 ml of 0.1% TFA; and 3 ml of 10% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% TFA. After the sample was loaded on to the Sep-Pak, it was washed with 6 ml of 0.1% TFA, and 6 ml of a methanol/0.1% TFA solution (4:1; v/v). The tetrapyrroles were then eluted from the Sep-Pak using 1 ml of 100% acetonitrile. The eluate was dried using a Speed-Vac lyophilizer, and dried samples were analysed by HPLC. Samples were first dissolved in 10 μl of DMSO and then diluted in 150 μl of the HPLC mobile phase. Following brief centrifugation (10000 g for 1 min) and filtration through a 0.45 μm poly(tetrafluoroethylene) syringe filter (Phenomax), tetrapyrroles were analysed with reverse-phase chromatography using an Agilent Technologies 1100 liquid chromatograph. The HPLC column used for all analyses was a 4.6 mm×250 mm Phenomenex Ultracarb 5 μm OD20 analytical column with a 4.6 mm×30 mm guard column of the same material. The mobile phase consisted of acetone/20 mM formic acid (1:1; v/v), and the flow rate was 0.6 ml/min. Eluates were monitored at 650 nm and 380 nm using an Agilent Technologies 1100 series diode array detector. When required, complete spectra were obtained for the peaks desired. Peak areas were quantified using Agilent Technologies Chemstation software.
