!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) mediates resistance to abiotic stress and controls developmental processes in plants. The group-A PP2Cs, of which ABI1 is the prototypical member, are protein phosphatases that play critical roles as negative regulators very early in ABA signal transduction. Because redundancy is thought to limit the genetic dissection of early ABA signalling, to identify redundant and early ABA signalling proteins, we pursued a proteomics approach. We generated YFP-tagged ABI1 Arabidopsis expression lines and identified in vivo ABI1-interacting proteins by mass-spectrometric analyses of ABI1 complexes. Known ABA signalling components were isolated including SnRK2 protein kinases. We confirm previous studies in yeast and now show that ABI1 interacts with the ABA-signalling kinases OST1, SnRK2.2 and SnRK2.3 in plants. Interestingly, the most robust in planta ABI1-interacting proteins in all LC-MS/MS experiments were nine of the 14 PYR/PYL/RCAR proteins, which were recently reported as ABA-binding signal transduction proteins, providing evidence for in vivo PYR/PYL/RCAR interactions with ABI1 in Arabidopsis. ABI1–PYR1 interaction was stimulated within 5 min of ABA treatment in Arabidopsis. Interestingly, in contrast, PYR1 and SnRK2.3 co-immunoprecipitated equally well in the presence and absence of ABA. To investigate the biological relevance of the PYR/PYLs, we analysed pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutant plants and found strong insensitivities in ABA-induced stomatal closure and ABA-inhibition of stomatal opening. These findings demonstrate that ABI1 can interact with several PYR/PYL/RCAR family members in Arabidopsis, that PYR1–ABI1 interaction is rapidly stimulated by ABA in Arabidopsis and indicate new SnRK2 kinase-PYR/PYL/RCAR interactions in an emerging model for PYR/PYL/RCAR-mediated ABA signalling.
!~RES~! To assess further the ABA signalling cascade, we pursued experiments to identify ABI1-interacting proteins in Arabidopsis using affinity column-based protein complex purifications. We generated transgenic YFP–ABI1 and YFP Arabidopsis expression lines in an abi1-3 knockout mutant background (CITATIONet al., 2006). Five independent transgenic YFP–ABI1 expression lines were isolated. Western blot and fluorescence microscopy analyses showed that these Arabidopsis lines express the YFP–ABI1 and YFP proteins, respectively (CITATION). Interestingly, YFP–ABI1 expression plants showed growth and ABA insensitive phenotypes that were comparable to the dominant abi1-1 mutant. 5-week-old YFP–ABI1 plants were significantly smaller in size than control YFP expression plants (CITATION). Previous research has reported that ABI1–GFP over-expressing lines do not show any ABA response phenotypes compared with vector control lines (CITATIONet al., 2008). In our investigations, YFP–ABI1 fusion expression plants showed ABA insensitive phenotypes during seed germination, root growth and in stomatal responses compared with the control YFP expression plants confirming ABI1 function (CITATION). Constitutive expression of YFP–ABI1 causes ABA insensitivity. (a) Western blot analysis of YFP-tagged ABI1 (left) and YFP control (right) proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis. Stars indicate predicted YFP–ABI1 and YFP bands. Arrow head: non-specific band. (b) Morphology and subcellular localization of Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing YFP–ABI1 (left) and YFP (right) at the rosette plant stage. Plants were grown for 5 weeks in soil. (c) ABA-insensitive phenotype of constitutively expressed YFP–ABI1 (left) and ABA response in control YFP-expressing seedlings (right). Top: in the presence of 1 μm ABA. Bottom: without added ABA. Transgenic plant seeds were sown on agar MS plates with or without 1 μm exogenous ABA. (d) ABA-dependent root growth responses of Arabidopsis seedlings constitutively expressing YFP and YFP–ABI1. Seedlings were germinated and grown on hormone-free MS plates for 5 days and then transferred to MS plates containing the indicated ABA concentrations. Root length was measured 4 days after transfer. Error bars show standard deviations. (e) Time course experiments of ABA-induced stomatal closing in YFP control and YFP–ABI1 expressing leaves (genotype blind experiments). Stomatal apertures were individually mapped and images captured (CITATIONet al., 2009) and measured before and after addition of 1 μm ABA. Average stomatal apertures at time −15 min: 3.47 ± 0.14 μm (YFP plants), 3.75 ± 0.18 μm (YFP–ABI1 plants). YFP plants: n = 23 stomata, YFP–ABI1 plants: n = 26 stomata. Error bars show SEM. Using YFP–ABI1 and YFP expression in the abi1-3 knock-out background, we purified ABI1-interacting proteins. A GFP affinity column was loaded with whole protein extracts from YFP–ABI1 and control YFP expression plants grown on MS plates for 21 days with or without ABA treatment. Affinity purified protein complexes were identified by mass spectrometric analyses. The specificity of the proteins purified by YFP affinity purification was analysed in parallel negative control experiments using YFP expression plants in the abi1-3 mutant background (CITATION and CITATION). Upon silver staining, some visible bands overlapped with controls and specific bands associated that YFP–ABI1 samples were also consistently observed (CITATION). Mass-spectrometrical analyses of five samples without ABA treatment (four independent samples and one duplicate) and five samples treated with ABA (three independent samples and two duplicates) allowed identification of proteins that associated with YFP–ABI1. Interestingly, the identified proteins included known ABA signalling components SnRK2.2, SnRK2.3, RPN10 and OST2/AHA1 (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2003; CITATIONet al., 2007; CITATIONet al., 2007). SnRK2.2 and SnRK2.3 were not identified in any of the YFP control experiments (CITATION). Known ABA signalling proteins co-purified with ABI1 from Arabidopsis plants without addition of exogenous ABA Known ABA signalling proteins co-purified with ABI1 from Arabidopsis plants exposed to exogenous ABA Analyses of mass-spectra identified nine proteins in the absence of exogenously applied ABA that were identified in all YFP–ABI1 experiments, but not in YFP controls (CITATION, CITATION). In the presence of exogenous ABA, eleven proteins were identified in all YFP–ABI1 samples (CITATION, CITATION). Initially, we named these proteins candidate ABI1 interacting proteins (ABIP). The protein with the largest sequence coverage was ABI1 (CITATION). Six of the nine proteins in samples that were not treated with exogenous ABA encoded proteins from a, at the time uncharacterized, Bet VI subfamily of proteins (CITATION and CITATION). These Bet VI family proteins including PYR1 and other close homologues have recently been independently identified as candidate ABA-binding and ABA signalling proteins (CITATIONet al., 2009; CITATIONet al., 2009). Interestingly the proteins co-purified with ABI1 with the highest total and unique sequence coverage and number of unique peptides and spectrum count were all members of the PYR/PYL/RCAR protein family (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Two additional proteins from the 14 member PYR/PYL/RCAR protein family were identified in three or four of the five experiments (CITATION, PYL7 and PYL10). Moreover, in ABA-treated samples eight PYR/PYL/RCAR proteins had the largest total and unique sequence coverage and number of unique peptides and spectrum count of the isolated ABI1-interacting proteins and were identified in all five LC-MS/MS experiments (CITATION, CITATION). As Bet VI proteins were the most significantly and consistently represented proteins from among all sequenced protein peptides in YFP–ABI1 samples, but not in YFP control samples (CITATION), these findings provide evidence that the ABI1 protein phosphatase can form complexes with several of the 14 PYR/PYL/RCAR Bet VI family members in vivo (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Candidate ABI1-interacting proteins with the largest mass-spectrometrical sequence coverage from five LC-MS/MS experiments analyzing ABI1 complexes isolated from Arabidopsis in the absence of exogenous ABA Three additional PYR/PYL/RCAR family members identified in 4, 3 and 1 of the experiments, respectively. Candidate ABI1-interacting proteins with the largest mass-spectrometrical sequence coverage from five LC-MS/MS experiments analyzing Arabidopsis ABI1 complexes exposed to exogenous ABA PYL10 was identified in one experiment as shown. ABA causes ABI1–PYR1 interaction in Arabidopsis. (a) Example of raw tandem mass spectrometry data identifying PYR1 peptide in YFP–ABI affinity purified samples. The predicted PYR1 peptide sequence is shown in the top inset. (b) Increasing concentrations of exogenously applied ABA strongly enhanced co-immunoprecipitation of YFP–ABI1 with PYR1 in Arabidopsis. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were exposed to ABA for 3 h. (c) ABA triggers interaction of YFP–ABI1 with PYR1 within 5 min of exposure of Arabidopsis plants to exogenous ABA. Left: Total protein extracts (left, Input) from YFP–ABI1 plants. Plants were grown on MS plates for 3 weeks and were treated with or without 100 μm exogenous ABA. After co-immunoprecipitation using anti-GFP beads, input and co-immunoprecipitated samples were detected with anti-PYR1 and anti-GFP antibodies. It was recently shown that ABA enhances the interaction of YFP–ABI1 with HA–PYR1 transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (CITATIONet al., 2009). To assess whether these interactions occur in vivo in Arabidopsis, we performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments in stably transformed YFP–ABI1 and YFP control expression lines using a PYR1 antibody. YFP–ABI1 interacted with PYR1 in Arabidopsis with a strong enhancement upon application of 100 μm exogenous ABA for 48 h (CITATION). Subsequently, co-immunoprecipitation experiments were performed three h after exogenous application of 0, 1, 10 and 100 μm ABA. ABA caused a clear enhancement in ABI1–PYR1 interaction in vivo (CITATION). To determine the timing of this ABA response in Arabidopsis, co-immunoprecipitation experiments were performed 0, 5, 10, 30 or 60 min after application of exogenous ABA. These experiments showed a clear ABA induction of a YFP–ABI1 and PYR1 interaction within 5 min of ABA treatment in vivo (CITATION). ABI1 has been reported to interact with OST1/SnRK2E/SnRK2.6 in yeast (CITATIONet al., 2006a). However it remains unknown whether this interaction occurs in plant cells and whether ABI1 interacts with other SnRK2s. It also remains unknown whether any ABI1–SnRK2 interactions are regulated by ABA similar to the ABI1–PYR1 interaction. As SnRK2.2 and SnRK2.3 were co-purified with ABI1 in our affinity column purification experiments (CITATION and CITATION), we co-expressed YFP–ABI1 with either HA–SnRK2.2, HA–SnRK2.3 or HA–OST1/SnRK2.6 in N. benthamiana and performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments. YFP–ABI1 constitutively interacted with HA–SnRK2.2, HA–SnRK2.3 and HA–OST1/SnRK2.6 both in the absence and presence of exogenously applied ABA (CITATION). ABI1 PP2C co-immunoprecipitates with all three ABA signalling SnRK2 kinases in plants. YFP–ABI1 co-immunoprecipitates with HA–SnRK2.2, HA–SnRK2.3 and HA– OST1/SnRK2.6 both in the presence and absence of exogenously applied ABA. Total protein extracts (left, Input) from transformed Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were harvested 3 days after inoculation and were treated with or without 100 μm ABA for 24 h before harvesting. After co-immunoprecipitation using an anti-HA matrix, input and immunoprecipitated samples were detected with anti-GFP and anti-HA antibodies. We analysed whether PYR1 might co-purify with SnRK2s. We co-expressed YFP–PYR1 with either HA–SnRK2.3 or HA–OST1/SnRK2.6 in N. benthamiana and performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Interestingly, YFP–PYR1 co-immunoprecipitated with HA–SnRK2.3 both in the presence and absence of ABA, but not detectably or very weakly with HA–OST1/SnRK2.6 (CITATION). Interaction of PYR1 with SnRK2.3 and OST1. YFP–PYR1 co-immunoprecipitates with HA–SnRK2.3. In contrast HA–OST1/SnRK2.6 did not co-immunoprecipitate with YFP–PYR1. Total protein extracts (left, Input) from transformed Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were harvested 3 days after inoculation and were treated with or without 100 μm ABA for 24 h before harvesting. After co-immunoprecipitation using an anti-HA matrix, input and immunoprecipitated samples were detected with anti-GFP and anti-HA antibodies. The abi1-1 protein impairs ABA signalling upstream of known early ABA responses in Arabidopsis guard cells (CITATIONet al., 1997; CITATIONet al., 1999; CITATIONet al., 2001; CITATIONet al., 2002). A pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutant was recently shown to cause strong ABA insensitivities in seed germination, root growth and ABA-induced gene expression (CITATIONet al., 2009). Whether PYR/PYL/RCAR genes mediate ABA response in guard cells remains unknown. Public microarray data show that the PYR1, PYL1, PYL2, PYL4, PYL5, PYL7 and PYL8 mRNAs are highly expressed in guard cells and seedlings (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2008; CITATIONet al., 2008) (CITATION). Stomatal response analyses were performed with pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutant plants. pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutants showed a strong ABA insensitive phenotype in double-blinded ABA-induced stomatal closing and ABA inhibition of stomatal opening analyses (CITATION and CITATION). Studies have provided evidence that Ca2+ signalling functions downstream of the abi1-1 and abi2-1 PP2Cs in guard cells (CITATIONet al., 1999; CITATIONet al., 2001). Experiments were pursued to determine whether pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutant plants impair Ca2+-induced stomatal closing. Repetitive addition and removal of Ca2+ to the extracellular solution bathing leaf epidermes while shifting the K+ equilibrium potential in guard cells, results in Ca2+-induced stomatal closure (CITATIONet al., 2001). Such imposed extracellular Ca2+ pulses caused similar Ca2+-reactive and Ca2+-programmed stomatal closure responses in both pyr1/pyl1/pyl2/pyl4 quadruple mutant and wild type epidermes (CITATION). These results suggest that these PYR/PYL/RCAR proteins are critical for ABA signalling in guard cells upstream of Ca2+ signalling. ABA-induced stomatal closure and ABA-inhibition of stomatal opening but not Ca2+ -induced stomatal closure are impaired in pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant plants. (a) ABA-induced stomatal closure in pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant and wild type rosette leaves treated with the indicated ABA concentrations for 1 h (n = 4 experiments, 30 stomata per experiment and condition; genotype and [ABA] blind experiments). (b) ABA inhibition of stomatal opening in pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant and wild type abaxial leaf epidermes treated with the indicated ABA concentrations for 1 h (n = 3 experiments, 30 stomata per experiment and condition; genotype and [ABA] blind experiments). Closed means incubation in the dark for 3 h (before light and ABA treatment). (c) Stomatal closure in response to four repetitive extracellular Ca2+ pulses (5 min each) is not impaired in pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant suggesting that PYR/PYL/RCARs function upstream of Ca2+. Four 5-min extracellular applications of 1 mm CaCl2 and 1 mm KCl were sequentially applied to abaxial leaf epidermes (black bars at top) followed by 50 mm KCl and 0 added CaCl2 exposure (White bars at top) (n = 31 individually mapped stomata for both wild type and pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant) Average stomatal apertures at time = −15 min: 5.24 ± 0.19 μm (wild type), 5.52 ± 0.14 μm (pyr1pyl1pyl2pyl4 quadruple mutant). Error bars show SEM.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col) was used in this study. Plant growth conditions, seed germination and root elongation assays were performed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2006). ABA-induced and repetitive Ca2+ pulse-stomatal movement responses and apertures were analysed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2008). For ABA inhibition of stomatal opening, to pre-close stomata, intact leaf epidermes attached to a cover slip were pre-incubated in buffer (10 mm KCl, 7.5 mm iminodiacetic acid and 10 mm MES/Tris, pH 6.2) for 3 h in the dark and exposed to the indicated ABA concentrations in the light (100 μmol m−2 s−1). The full length ABI1 cDNA was cloned into pDONR vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) and sequenced and then transferred to the destination vectors pH35YG and pEarleyGate 201 by Gateway LR recombination reaction (Invitrogen). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was used to transform the abi1-3 T-DNA insertion disruption line and wild-type Col-0 with plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plant lines were screened for hygromycin resistance and homozygous T3 lines were isolated. Identification of proteins by mass spectrometry is described in the Experimental procedures S1. For protein extractions, 3-week-old seedlings (1 g) grown on horizontal MS plates were incubated for 2 h in water before ABA treatment. Co-immunoprecipitations were performed using Dynabeads Protein G (Invitrogen) captured with anti-GFP antibody (Abcam, http://www.abcam.com) according to the manufacture’s specifications. Co-immunoprecipitations in N. benthamiana were performed as described previously without modifications (CITATIONet al., 2009).
