!~ABS~! The functional protein phosphatase type 2C from beechnut (Fagus sylvatica; FsPP2C1) was a negative regulator of abscisic acid (ABA) signaling in seeds. In this report, to get deeper insight on FsPP2C1 function, we aim to identify PP2C-interacting partners. Two closely related members (PYL8/RCAR3 and PYL7/RCAR2) of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BetV I family were shown to bind FsPP2C1 in a yeast two-hybrid screening and in an ABA-independent manner. By transient expression of FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3 in epidermal onion (Allium cepa) cells and agroinfiltration in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) as green fluorescent protein fusion proteins, we obtained evidence supporting the subcellular localization of both proteins mainly in the nucleus and in both the cytosol and the nucleus, respectively. The in planta interaction of both proteins in tobacco cells by bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays resulted in a specific nuclear colocalization of this interaction. Constitutive overexpression of PYL8/RCAR3 confers ABA hypersensitivity in Arabidopsis seeds and, consequently, an enhanced degree of seed dormancy. Additionally, transgenic 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 plants are unable to germinate under low concentrations of mannitol, NaCl, or paclobutrazol, which are not inhibiting conditions to the wild type. In vegetative tissues, Arabidopsis PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic plants show ABA-resistant drought response and a strong inhibition of early root growth. These phenotypes are strengthened at the molecular level with the enhanced induction of several ABA response genes. Both seed and vegetative phenotypes of Arabidopsis 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 plants are opposite those of 35S:FsPP2C1 plants. Finally, double transgenic plants confirm the role of PYL8/RCAR3 by antagonizing FsPP2C1 function and demonstrating that PYL8/RCAR3 positively regulates ABA signaling during germination and abiotic stress responses.
!~RES~! We have previously reported the isolation and functional characterization of FsPP2C1 as a plant type 2C protein phosphatase, with all the conserved features of the catalytic domain of these proteins (CITATION), which acts as a negative regulator of ABA responses in seeds (CITATION). Our results suggest that this PP2C from beech, which is a foreign protein in Arabidopsis tissues, possesses at least its corresponding signaling components (substrate, activator, or partner) in this plant model species. In a search of FsPP2C1-interacting proteins (PP2C-IPs) in Arabidopsis, a yeast two-hybrid screening was performed using FsPP2C1 as bait. As a result, we have identified three different proteins (PYL8/RCAR3, PYL7/RCAR2, and PP2C-IP3) showing interaction with FsPP2C1 (Table I ). Two of the PP2C-IPs are closely related members of an Arabidopsis gene family, namely At5g53160 (PYL8/RCAR3) and At4g01026 (PYL7/RCAR2; Fig. 1 ). In particular, five clones belonging to the same PYL8/RCAR3 were identified, explaining a strong interaction. BLAST searches in Arabidopsis using the amino acid sequence encoded by both genes as query revealed high similarity with the PYR1-PYL/RCAR gene family recently identified (CITATION; CITATION) and composed of 14 members. All members encode small proteins, ranging between 165 and 221 amino acid residues (approximately 20 kD), characterized by the presence of the well-conserved BetV I family signature in many members of the family (Fig. 2A ), as revealed by protein domain analysis using the InterPro database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro). This signature is present in different plant allergens, and specifically, the BetV I family corresponds to particularly potent allergens from white birch (Betula verrucosa) pollen. FsPP2C1-interacting proteins obtained by yeast two-hybrid assay in Arabidopsis [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The phylogenetic relationship between PYL8/RCAR3 and other closely related plant protein PYR-PYL/RCARs is shown in Figure 2B. A phylogenetic tree was constructed using the 14 Arabidopsis PYR-PYL/RCARs and homologs from the genome sequence databases of five lower and higher plants (Physcomitrella patens, Selaginella moellendorfii, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, and Oryza sativa; Fig. 2B; Supplemental Table S1). The phylogenetic tree reveals the presence of ancient gene duplication events that predate the speciation of dicots, monocots, and mosses, leading to the six distinct clades indicated in Figure 2B. The data available after recent sequencing projects have revealed the conservation of PYR-PYL/RCAR in lower land plants such as the moss P. patens and in the lycophyte S. moellendorfii. Different PYR-PYL/RCAR subgroups can be identified, and proteins from all plant species analyzed are present in at least one subgroup, suggesting the probable existence of PP2C-IP homologs in all considered genomes as well as in the common ancestor of all the species examined. One of the clades contains exclusively sequences from the lower plants P. patens and S. moellendorfii, suggesting that this lineage of plants contains a copy of BetV I-containing proteins with specialized functions. Additionally, three clades can be clearly distinguished, which include most of the PYR-PYL/RCARs from higher plants where duplications are present and two other clades including Arabidopsis and one or two more higher species. The high identity found in the BetV I domain and the evolutionary conservation among these PYR-PYL/RCARs support a regulatory function for this domain. Moreover, the interaction of two members of this family with the ABA-related plant type 2C protein phosphatase FsPP2C1 suggests that they might have a role in the ABA signal transduction pathway, but it has not been investigated yet. To ascertain the potential site of action of FsPP2C1 and its interacting partner within the cell, the subcellular localization of these proteins was investigated using N-terminal GFP fusions of full-length FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3. As depicted in Figure 3A , transient expression of these constructs in epidermal onion cells showed that the PYL8/RCAR3 cellular expression pattern was similar to that of the native GFP, demonstrating that the full-length protein appeared in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Furthermore, FsPP2C1 was mostly localized in the nucleus. The exact localization of this protein was corroborated with confocal microscopy slides of cell sections through the nucleus and showing the expression of GFP-FsPP2C1. Interestingly, C-terminal GFP fusions of FsPP2C1 altered the subcellular localization of the native protein in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) and Arabidopsis cells, indicating the presence of signals in this end that might be relevant for its localization pattern (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] In a similar way, agroinfiltration analysis of the same constructs delivered in tobacco leaves confirmed the same subcellular localization for FsPP2C1, highlighting the nuclear pattern and the localization for the FsPP2C1-interacting partner (PYL8/RCAR3) appearing in the whole cell (Fig. 3B). Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays were used to detect the interaction between FsPP2C1 and the PYL/RCAR proteins PYL8/RCAR3 (At5g53160) and PYL7/RCAR2 (At4g01026) in plant cells. With this purpose, FsPP2C1 was translationally fused to the C-terminal 84-amino acid region of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFPC) in the pYFPC43 vector (derived from pMDC43; CITATION), which generated a YFPC-FsPP2C1 fusion protein (Fig. 3C). Moreover, At5g53160 and At4g01026 were translationally fused to the N-terminal 155-amino acid region of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFPN) in the pYFPN43 vector, which generated the YFPN-At5g53160 and YFPN-At4g01026 fusion proteins, respectively (Fig. 3C). The corresponding constructs were codelivered into tobacco leaf cells by Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration, and as a result, fluorescence was observed in the nucleus of tobacco cells (Fig. 3, D and E), in agreement with the previous finding in the two-hybrid assay and subcellular localization. Similar results were obtained when another member of the PYR1-PYL/RCAR family of interacting partners, PYL5/RCAR8 (At5g05440), was used for BiFC assays (Fig. 3D), showing the specificity of the FsPP2C1-PYL/RCAR family interaction. Additionally, we corroborated the feasibility of these PP2C-interacting partners by analyzing the interaction between PYL8/RCAR3 and members of the Arabidopsis clade A PP2Cs to whom FsPP2C1 is the closest ortholog. Therefore, we used HAB1 and the mutated version hab1G246D, corresponding to the same mutation found in the dominant abi1-1 and abi2-1 mutants (Fig. 4 ). Interestingly, we were able to also demonstrate the interaction between PYL8/RCAR3 and HAB1, while the mutation hab1G246D was able to abolish this interaction (Fig. 4, A and B). These in vivo targeting experiments also determined the subcellular localization of the interaction in both the nucleus and the cytosol (Fig. 4C), which is quite similar to that described for HAB1 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The specific nuclear localization of the FsPP2C1-PYL8/RCAR3 and the rest of the FsPP2C1-PYL/RCAR interactions suggest an interesting function for these complexes in ABA signaling and ABA-regulated gene expression. Previously, we had shown that FsPP2C1 was strongly up-regulated by ABA treatment, specifically expressed in ABA-treated dormant seeds, and that this expression was negatively correlated with germination (CITATION). The expression of the PP2C-interacting partner PYL8/RCAR3 (At5g53160) displayed a pattern largely opposite to that of FsPP2C1 and was down-regulated by ABA. Gene expression analysis using Genevestigator software (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch; CITATION) revealed that expression of PYL8/RCAR3 was strongly down-regulated by salt and osmotic stress as well as by ABA treatment (Supplemental Fig. S2A). In contrast with most of the other PYR-PYL/RCAR members, PYL7/RCAR2 (At4g01026) seems to behave differently in the gene expression profiles from Genevestigator shown in Supplemental Figure S2A, since an increased expression in response to ABA, salt, osmotic, or drought stress is observed. Furthermore, using the eFP browser from BAR (http://bar.utoronto.ca), we compared the transcription levels of PYL8 (At5g53160) versus PYL7 (At4g01026) in different plant tissues and developmental stages (Supplemental Fig. S2, B and C), showing a different expression pattern mainly in seeds (dry and imbibed) and seedlings, which may indicate different functions for some members of this new family. Taking into account that homologous genes of the same family usually present functional redundancy to varying degrees, we have chosen a gain-of-function approach to provide genetic evidence on the role of the PYL8/RCAR3 gene in ABA signaling by generating 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines to further analyze the ABA responses in them (Fig. 5 ). [[FIGURE]] To this end, the coding region of PYL8/RCAR3 was fused to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in the binary vector pBIN121, and the construct was used to transform Arabidopsis plants (Columbia [Col-0] background; Supplemental Fig. S3A). Most of the 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 T1 kanamycin-resistant lines recovered showed an ABA-hypersensitive phenotype to different degrees in seed germination, as compared with untransformed plants or plants transformed with the empty vector (data not shown). For each line, T2 seeds were plated on selection medium to test the segregation ratio of kanamycin resistance. Finally, six T3 homozygous lines were selected, and Southern-blot analysis displayed double and single insertions of the 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgene (Supplemental Fig. S3B). Expression levels of the 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgene in three different lines analyzed by quantitative (Q)-PCR presented in Supplemental Figure S3C showed substantially higher (3- to 8-fold) expression compared with wild-type plants, as expected. Out of the T3 homozygous lines obtained, three lines with a single insertion were selected for further analysis. The specific interaction of PYL/RCAR with FsPP2C1, which is up-regulated by ABA in beech seeds (CITATION), prompted us to test whether constitutive expression of PYL8/RCAR3 in Arabidopsis would affect ABA sensitivity in seeds. Seed germination of PYL8/RCAR3-overexpressing transgenic plants in medium supplemented with ABA is shown in Figure 5A. At 8 d poststratification, radicle emergence and development of green and expanded cotyledons was mostly inhibited in 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds at 0.5 μm ABA (and also under 0.7 μm ABA), while control Col-0 seeds showed nearly 70% germination in 0.5 μm ABA. To further substantiate this result, we compared the germination of ABA-hypersensitive mutants (hab1) and wild-type seeds with that of 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgenics in medium supplemented with ABA (Fig. 5A). The addition of 0.5 μm ABA decreased the percentage of germination in hab1-1 to 25%, similar to the germination observed in 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines. Clearly, under a concentration not completely inhibitory for the wild type (0.5 μm ABA), PYL8/RCAR3-overexpressing lines reached less than 20% germination. 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds were unable to germinate and grow under this low ABA concentration; therefore, they showed enhanced sensitivity to ABA. Mature Arabidopsis seeds exhibit primary dormancy when freshly released from the mother plant, which means that seeds are unable to germinate under the appropriate environmental conditions unless they are treated with dormancy-breaking treatments such as stratification or gibberellins (GAs; CITATION). To determine the degree of dormancy of 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds, we compared the germination percentage of the seeds harvested at the same time after different cold treatment periods (0, 24, 48, and 72 h) with that of two wild-type plants with different degrees of dormancy (Col-0 and Emkheim) and with ABA-related mutants that produce nondormant seeds (abi1-1). As a result, all of the PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines exhibited an enhanced degree of dormancy compared with the Col-0 wild type, very similar to that of the Emkheim ecotype but significantly different from the abi mutants (Fig. 5B). In the absence of stratification at 4°C, PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic seeds were unable to germinate, reaching 10% to 25% germination after 1 d of treatment, suggesting that this protein may be related to ABA-regulated dormancy. To fully characterize the hypersensitive phenotype of 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds, an additional seed germination assay was carried out in the presence of paclobutrazol, a well-known inhibitor of GA biosynthesis. GAs are antagonistic to ABA; therefore, seeds with reduced sensitivity to ABA (or diminished ABA levels) show paclobutrazol-resistant germination (CITATION). In contrast to the wild type, 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds were unable to germinate and develop green cotyledons in medium supplemented with 1 and 10 μm paclobutrazol, indicating that they are more dependent on GA biosynthesis at this developmental stage (Fig. 5C). These results demonstrate that 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seeds exhibit an enhanced degree of seed dormancy and sensitivity to inhibition of germination by exogenous ABA and paclobutrazol, suggesting that PYL8/RCAR3 might be involved as a positive regulator in ABA responsiveness in seeds. It has been suggested previously that ABA regulates many different stress responses. To test whether the ABA sensitivity induced by overexpression of PYL8/RCAR3 during germination is also effective against other ABA-mediated stresses that increase ABA levels, we analyzed the seed germination response of PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines in the presence of low concentrations of NaCl and mannitol (Fig. 5D) and compared it with that of wild-type plants. Seed germination under 250 mm mannitol and 125 mm NaCl leads to a severe delay in radicle emergence and further growth arrest in 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 individuals; in contrast, wild-type seeds were able to germinate and develop green cotyledons under such conditions (Fig. 5D). These results indicate that PYL8/RCAR3-expressing seeds are neither osmotolerant nor resistant to low salt concentration in this germination assay. To determine the extent to which PYL8/RCAR3 overexpression could affect whole plant phenotypes, we analyzed ABA sensitivity in vegetative tissues of the ABA-related mutant abi1-1, three 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines, and wild-type plants. ABA has an inhibitory effect on root growth and, consequently, ABA-insensitive mutants and FsPP2C1-overexpressing plants are resistant to this ABA-mediated process (CITATION; CITATION). Twelve-day-old 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 seedlings grown in the presence of 10 and 30 μm ABA showed an enhanced inhibition of root growth compared with wild-type plants and to a greater extent with that of abi mutants (Fig. 6A ). When grown in the absence of ABA, the PYL8/RCAR3-overexpressing plants did not display any visible phenotypic alteration. [[FIGURE]] ABA triggers stomatal closure and consequent reduction in water loss under drought conditions. The Arabidopsis ABA-insensitive mutants abi1-1 and abi2-1 are impaired in the ABA-induced stomatal closure and, therefore, in their ability to limit transpiration upon drought. On the contrary, PYL8/RCAR3 overexpression did affect stomatal regulation, since 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 plants showed lower rates of transpiration than wild-type plants under drought conditions (not watered after 7 d), which lost approximately 80% fresh weight after 7 d (Fig. 6, B and C). To examine whether the enhancement in ABA sensitivity in transgenic plants was accompanied by altered expression of ABA-responsive genes, we compared the expression of several previously reported ABA-inducible genes, RAB18, Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS1), RD29A, and RD29B, in 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 with that of Col-0 and abi1-1 (Fig. 7 ). RAB18 (CITATION; CITATION) is an ABA-inducible gene whose expression is drastically inhibited both in abi1-1 and abi2-1 mutants (CITATION), and accumulation of P5CS1 mRNA is induced by drought, salinity, and ABA and is reduced by approximately 50% in the abi1-1 mutant compared with wild-type plants (CITATION). Similarly, RD29A and RD29B are cold-, drought-, and ABA-inducible genes that contain ABA-responsive elements in their promoters. RD29A contains in addition the dehydration-responsive element, which is involved in a rapid response to conditions of dehydration or high salt (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Regarding this effect, 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 plants behave opposite to the abi1-1 mutant, as they showed a high induction (3- to 5-fold) in the expression of RAB18, P5CS1, RD29A, and RD29B upon ABA treatment from that detected in wild-type plants. Taken together, these results indicate that expression of PYL8/RCAR3 in vegetative tissues increases ABA-responsive gene expression and is also linked to ABA-related physiological responses such as enhanced dormancy level, stress-resistant germination, inhibition of root growth, and desiccation tolerance. To further assess the real function of PYL8/RCAR3 in planta and its relevance in the ABA signal transduction pathway, we generated double transgenic lines that overexpressed both FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3. Functional analysis of these plants has also shown an enhanced response to ABA during seed germination and early seedling growth, similar to PYL8/RCAR3-overexpressing lines and greatly different from the ABA insensitivity displayed by the gain-of-function 35S:FsPP2C1 lines or the dominant abi1-1 mutant (Fig. 8 ). These results confirm that PYL8/RCAR3 is able to antagonize FsPP2C1 function in the plant. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild-type and transgenic plants used throughout this work were in the Col-0 ecotype. They were routinely grown in a growth chamber under 40% humidity, 22°C temperature, and 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod at 80 to 100 μE m−2 s−1 in pots containing a 1:3 vermiculite:soil mixture. For in vitro culture, seeds were surface sterilized in 75% bleach solution and 0.01% Triton X-100 for 5 min and, finally, washed three times in sterile distilled water. Stratification of the seeds was conducted during 3 d at 4°C, unless otherwise indicated. Afterward, seeds were sown on CITATION; MS) plates containing solid medium composed of MS basal salts and 2% Glc, solidified with 0.7% agar, and adjusted to pH 5.7 with KOH before autoclaving. Plates were sealed and incubated in a controlled-environment growth chamber. Bait cloning and yeast two-hybrid screening were performed by Hybrigenics (http://www.hybrigenics.com/services). FsPP2C1 was cloned in an inducible yeast two-hybrid vector optimized by Hybrigenics. The bait construct was transformed in the L40ΔGAL4 yeast strain (CITATION). An Arabidopsis 1-week-old seedling random-primed cDNA library, transformed into the Y187 yeast strain and containing 10 million independent fragments, was used for mating. High mating efficiency was obtained using a specific mating method (CITATION; CITATION). The screen was first performed on a small scale to adapt the selective pressure to the intrinsic property of the bait. The bait was found to autoactivate the yeast two-hybrid system, and 100 mm 3-aminotriazole was found to be the optimal concentration to reduce background colonies. Then, the full-scale screen was performed in conditions ensuring a minimum of 50 million interactions tested, in order to cover five times the primary complexity of the yeast-transformed cDNA library (CITATION). A total of 123 million interactions were actually tested with FsPP2C1. After selection on medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His, seven positive clones were picked, and the corresponding prey fragments were amplified by PCR and sequenced at their 5′ and 3′ junctions. Sequences were then filtered and contiged as described previously (CITATION) and compared with the latest release of the GenBank database using BLASTN (CITATION). A predicted biological score (PBS) was applied to assess the reliability of each interaction, as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, the PBS relies on two different levels of analysis. First, a local score takes into account the redundancy and independence of prey fragments as well as the distributions of reading frames and stop codons in overlapping fragments. Second, a global score takes into account the interactions found in all the screens performed at Hybrigenics using the same library. In addition, potential false positives are flagged by a specific “E” PBS. This is done by discriminating prey proteins containing “highly connected” domains, previously found several times in screens performed on libraries derived from the same organism. The PBS scores have been shown to positively correlate with the biological significance of interactions (CITATION; CITATION). The coding regions of FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3 were obtained and fused to the C-terminal end of the GFP in the pMDC43 vector using the Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Following sequence verification of the inserts by DNA sequencing, GFP fusion and control constructs were transiently expressed into epidermal onion (Allium cepa) cells by particle bombardment. DNA absorption to gold particles and bombardment using a helium-driven particle accelerator (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad) were performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Five micrograms of plasmid was used per transformation, and all target materials were bombarded twice. FsPP2C1 was translationally fused to the YFPC in the pYFPC43 vector (derived from pMDC43; CITATION), and At5g53160, At4g01026, and At5g05440 were translationally fused to the YFPN in the pYFPN43 vector using the Gateway technology and primers listed in Supplemental Table S2. The constructs generated were used to transform the C58C1 (pGV2260) Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain (CITATION) and delivered into leaf cells of tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) by Agrobacterium infiltration as described previously (CITATION), together with the C58C1 (pCH32) Agrobacterium strain to avoid gene silencing. Basically, Agrobacterium strains were resuspended in 10 mm MgCl2, 10 mm MES, pH 5.6, and 200 μm acetosyringone. After infiltration with 2 mL using a syringe, plants were maintained during 3 to 4 d under greenhouse conditions. The fluorescence photographs of cells expressing the GFP and YFP reporter genes under the control of the 35S promoter were obtained using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 confocal microscope and a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 laser scanning confocal imaging system with LaserSharp version 5 Image software acquisition. For GFP and YFP detection, the excitation source was an argon ion laser at 488 nm and detection filters ranged from 515 to 530 nm and 500 to 540 nm, respectively. To generate the constructs, the coding region of the PYL8/RCAR3 cDNA was amplified by PCR using the primers from Supplemental Table S2 and cloned into the pGEM-T vector (Invitrogen). The PYL8/RCAR3 clone was excised from the pGEM-T vector using SacI-XbaI double digestion and subcloned into the doubly digested pBIN121 vector. The T-DNA region of the pBIN121-PYL8/RCAR3 construct was transferred to Agrobacterium C58C1 (pGV2260; CITATION) by electroporation. Arabidopsis plants (Col-0 ecotype) were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Seeds were harvested and plated on kanamycin selection medium (50 μg mL−1) to identify T1 transgenic plants. Approximately 100 of the T2 seeds were plated on MS kanamycin agar plates, and transgenic lines with a 3:1 (resistant:sensitive) segregation ratio were selected. Southern-blot analysis was performed as described by CITATION to select lines carrying a single T-DNA copy. T3 progeny homozygous for kanamycin resistance were used for further studies. The generation of transgenic lines simultaneously overexpressing both FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3 was performed by transferring pollen from 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 lines to emasculated flowers from different FsPP2C1-overexpressing lines and subsequent selection of the F2 siblings on plates containing 50 μm kanamycin. Coexpression of FsPP2C1 and PYL8/RCAR3 in double transgenic plants was verified by PCR analysis using the primer 35S-F (5′-ACGCACAATCCCACTATCCTTCG-3′) and those indicated in Supplemental Table S2. Additionally, F3 progeny were analyzed in 0.5 and 3 μm ABA and properly genotyped in accordance with ABA sensitivity. To measure ABA sensitivity, seeds were plated on solid medium composed of MS basal salts, 2% Glc, and different concentrations of ABA (0.5 and 0.7 μm). For the dormancy assay, seed lots to be compared were harvested on the same day from individual plants grown in identical environmental conditions and stratified during 0, 1, 2, and 3 d at 4°C. Each value represents the average germination percentage of 80 to 100 seeds with the se values of at least three replicates. To determine sensitivity to inhibition of germination by low osmoticum and salt, the medium was supplemented with 250 mm mannitol and 125 mm NaCl, respectively. To measure paclobutrazol sensitivity, seeds were plated on medium containing 1 and 10 μm paclobutrazol. The percentage of seeds that had germinated and developed fully green expanded cotyledons was determined in all assays after 7 d of sowing. The root growth assay for scoring ABA sensitivity was done by measuring root growth after 7 d of transferring of 5-d-old seedlings onto vertical MS plates containing 3 and 5 μm ABA. For the transpiration assays, the loss of fresh weight of whole 4-week-old plants at the same developmental stage was measured at room temperature after the indicated periods of time. Seeds from wild-type (Col-0), 35S:PYL8/RCAR3, and abi1-1 plants were grown in 125-mL flasks containing 20 mL of MS solution and 2% Glc. The flasks were shaken at 130 rpm under cool fluorescent light. After 10 d, seedlings were mock treated or treated with 10 μm ABA during 3 h. Plant material was collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA for quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was extracted from Arabidopsis 10-d-old frozen seedlings using Tri-reagent as described by the manufacturer (Ambion). Extracted RNAs were then subjected to RT. One microgram of DNase-treated total RNA was used for RT with a SuperScript Kit (Roche). The RT product was used for quantitative PCR using the primers designed from the RAB18, P5CS1, RD29A, and RD29B genes with the aid of Primer Express software 1.0 (Applied Biosystems) and listed in Supplemental Table S2. The actin gene β-ACT8 was used as a control. Primers were described previously (CITATION). Real-time PCR was performed in an ABI PRISM 7000 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems). Amplification was carried out with Brilliant SYBR Green QPCR MasterMix (Stratagene) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The thermal profile for SYBR Green real-time PCR was 50°C for 2 min, 95°C for 10 min, followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min. To generate the standard curves, cDNA isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings was serially diluted by a factor of 10 and aliquots of the dilutions were used in standard real-time PCRs. Each value determination was repeated three times to ensure the slope of the standard curves and to determine the sd. The concentration of unknown samples was calculated with the ABI PRISM 7000 SDS software, which created threshold cycle values and extrapolated relative levels of PCR product from the standard curve. The expression of all genes was normalized against the expression of the endogenous control gene (Actin). All experiments were repeated at least three times and yielded similar results. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AJ277743 and At5g53160. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Subcellular localization of C-terminal GFP fusions of FsPP2C1 in tobacco and Arabidopsis cells. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression pattern of PYL8 in the context of PYR-PYL/RCAR genes. Supplemental Figure S3. Generation and molecular analysis of 35S:PYL8/RCAR3 transgenic lines. Supplemental Table S1. Gene identification numbers of the 14 Arabidopsis PYR-PYL/RCARs in the phylogenetic tree (Fig. 2B), including the PYR-PYL/RCAR homologs of several lower and higher plants. Supplemental Table S2. Oligonucleotides used in the different constructs (transgenic plants and BiFC) and for Q-PCR analysis.
