!~ABS~! We identified an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ethyl methanesulfonate mutant, modified vacuole phenotype1-1 (mvp1-1), in a fluorescent confocal microscopy screen for plants with mislocalization of a green fluorescent protein-δ tonoplast intrinsic protein fusion. The mvp1-1 mutant displayed static perinuclear aggregates of the reporter protein. mvp1 mutants also exhibited a number of vacuole-related phenotypes, as demonstrated by defects in growth, utilization of stored carbon, gravitropic response, salt sensitivity, and specific susceptibility to the fungal necrotroph Alternaria brassicicola. Similarly, crosses with other endomembrane marker fusions identified mislocalization to aggregate structures, indicating a general defect in protein trafficking. Map-based cloning showed that the mvp1-1 mutation altered a gene encoding a putative myrosinase-associated protein, and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays demonstrated that MVP1 interacted specifically with the Arabidopsis myrosinase protein, THIOGLUCOSIDE GLUCOHYDROLASE2 (TGG2), but not TGG1. Moreover, the mvp1-1 mutant showed increased nitrile production during glucosinolate hydrolysis, suggesting that MVP1 may play a role in modulation of myrosinase activity. We propose that MVP1 is a myrosinase-associated protein that functions, in part, to correctly localize the myrosinase TGG2 and prevent inappropriate glucosinolate hydrolysis that could generate cytotoxic molecules.
!~RES~! The mvp1-1 mutant was isolated via visually detectable defects in vacuolar protein targeting. mvp1-1 was previously categorized within the aggregates of GFP fluorescence class of mutants, based on static subcellular GFP:δ-TIP-labeled membrane structures. In mvp1-1, aggregates were perinuclear and restricted to aerial tissues (Fig. 1 ; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To assess the effects of mvp1-1 on trafficking of other endomembrane markers, it was outcrossed to lines expressing different reporters. Yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):SEC12, an ER marker (CITATION; G. Drakakaki and N.V. Raikhel, unpublished data) was observed as a web-like network at the periphery of wild-type cells (Fig. 2A ), whereas in mvp1-1, YFP:SEC12 was delivered to the ER but the perinuclear aggregates were also visible (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] NAG1:GFP, a Golgi marker (CITATION; CITATION), labeled punctate structures located around the cell periphery (Fig. 2B), whereas in mvp1-1, the marker was also found in the aggregates (Fig. 2B). The tonoplast-localized GFP:γ-TIP-like protein (CITATION) mislocalized to the cellular aggregates in mvp1-1, indicating mistargeting of other tonoplast proteins (Fig. 2C). Plasma membrane intrinsic protein 2A (PIP2A; CITATION; CITATION) localized to the plasma membrane in wild-type and mutant plants but accumulated in mvp1-1 aggregates (Fig. 2D). We considered the possibility that aggregate formation was caused, in part, by overexpression of fluorescent protein markers, so we examined both mvp1-1 and mvp1-2 (described below) seedlings containing no 35Spro-driven constructs in their genetic backgrounds. Seedlings were stained with the endocytic styryl dye FM4-64 and examined by confocal microscopy (Supplemental Fig. S1). We observed aggregates in both alleles, indicating that aggregate formation was due solely to the mutation in the MVP1 gene. These data indicate that mvp1-1 widely disrupts endomembrane trafficking and causes a block early in trafficking pathways. Because the plant endomembrane system is essential for an array of physiological pathways, we assessed endomembrane functionality in mvp1-1 by evaluating the endomembrane-associated processes such as growth, gravitropism, carbon utilization, abiotic stress responses, and pathogen defense. All of these processes were negatively affected in the mvp1-1 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S2). Rough mapping using DNA isolated from F2 progeny of an outcross to the Landsberg erecta accession placed the mvp1-1 mutation between markers ciw1 and nga280 on chromosome 1. This interval was approximately 2,500 kb, or 12.5 centimorgan (Supplemental Fig. S4). We narrowed this interval to 110 kb (0.4 centimorgan) using a fine-mapping population composed of 493 F2 mutant plants. Targeted sequencing of 24 genes in the interval identified a 1-bp change (G→A) in the first exon of At1g54030, whose annotation was based on similarity to oilseed rape (Brassica napus) MyAPs with a GDSL lipase motif. This change in the MVP1 gene resulted in a missense mutation that converted a predicted Gly to a Glu (Fig. 3A ). We isolated a second allele, mvp1-2, that had a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of MVP1 (Fig. 3A). This allele had phenotypic defects similar to mvp1-1, including subcellular aggregates as visualized by FM4-64 (Supplemental Fig. S1) and sensitivity to NaCl (Supplemental Fig. S3). The mvp1-1 point mutation did not reduce transcript levels relative to the wild type, but the mvp1-2 insertion allele showed significantly reduced transcript (Fig. 3B). The mvp1-1 line was successfully complemented with a construct that consisted of the native MVP1 gene and approximately 2.0 kb of sequence upstream of the translation start site (Fig. 3C). The combination of complementation results and two independent alleles having similar phenotypes confirmed that At1g54030 is MVP1. [[FIGURE]] The MVP1 gene has a 1.97-kb genomic sequence and a 1.25-kb coding sequence, with five exons and four introns. The full-length cDNA (1.43 kb) encodes a 417-amino acid protein with a molecular mass of approximately 46 kD and pI of 6.7. Analysis using the SignalP 3.0 prediction server (CITATION) indicated that MVP1 had a signal peptide from residues 27 to 41 (S score > 0.6, with an 89.7% probability) that facilitates entry into the ER and was cleaved between residues 50 and 51 to yield a protein of approximately 40.5 kD (Supplemental Fig. S5). Sequence similarity searches showed that MVP1 was a member of a large GDSL lipase protein family. This family consisted of 907 members from eight different fully sequenced plant genomes, including 118 members from Arabidopsis, and all organisms represented in the UniProt database. Within this superfamily, the sequences with closest identity to MVP1 formed a distinct subclade of putative MyAPs, based on sequence similarities to glycoproteins found in myrosinase complexes of oilseed rape (CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 4; Supplemental Fig. S6; Supplemental Table S4). Myrosinases are β-glucosidases that hydrolyze glucosinolates, which are sulfur- and nitrogen-containing secondary metabolites. The glucosinolate-myrosinase system is found almost exclusively in the order Capparales, which includes the Brassicaceae plants oilseed rape and Arabidopsis. Upon tissue disruption, glucosinolates are hydrolyzed by myrosinases. The hydrolysis yields an aglucone intermediate that either spontaneously rearranges into an isothiocyanate or, combined with the actions of specifier and modifier proteins, into epithionitriles, nitriles, or thiocyanates. Arabidopsis contains six myrosinase genes, TGG1 to TGG6. TGG1 and TGG2 are expressed in aerial tissue, albeit with somewhat different cell type expression: TGG1 is found in phloem-associated and stomatal guard cells, whereas TGG2 is found only in phloem-associated cells. The functions of the two proteins appear to be redundant, because glucosinolate breakdown in single null mutants was similar to that in the wild type (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The clade that includes MVP1 also contained four sequences for oilseed rape MyAPs and six additional Arabidopsis genes (Fig. 4), only one of which, EPITHIOSPECIFIER MODIFIER1 (ESM1), has been characterized. The gene was identified as part of a quantitative trait locus on chromosome 3 that, in combination with the EPITHIOSPECIFIER PROTEIN (ESP) gene, affected the nitrile-to-isothiocyanate ratio in glucosinolate metabolism (CITATION; CITATION). The MVP1 expression pattern was examined using the Genevestigator reference expression database and analysis tool (CITATION). The MVP1 transcript was found throughout Arabidopsis tissues (Supplemental Fig. S7), with highest expression in imbibed seed. These data were consistent with our observation of unusual punctate structures visible in mature mvp1 embryos before the formation of the central vacuole (Supplemental Fig. S8). MVP1 was also expressed throughout the seedling, rosette leaves, and inflorescence, but not in pollen. Interestingly, MVP1 was expressed in roots, where we did not observe any aggregate formation. MVP1 transcript was detected at moderate levels during all developmental stages of the Arabidopsis life cycle, with highest mRNA accumulation in germinated seeds (Supplemental Fig. S9). We also carried out reverse transcription (RT)-PCR for the MVP1, TGG2, and ACTIN7 genes using total RNA isolated from 2-week-old seedlings, 4-week-old roots and rosette leaves, inflorescence stems, flowers, and green siliques (Supplemental Fig. S10; Supplemental Table S3). The data from this experiment were consistent with that reported in the Genevestigator database. Our laboratory has previously identified MVP1 in the vacuole proteome, specifically in the tonoplast fraction (CITATION), and a variety of observations suggest that MVP1 may also function in plant defense. First, as discussed above, ESM1 has been shown to be involved in defense against insect herbivory (CITATION; CITATION), indicating a possible role in defense for this family. Second, microarray data show that MVP1 expression was up-regulated by both pathogen infestation and methyl jasmonate (Supplemental Fig. S11), a well-characterized plant defense hormone (CITATION). MVP1 transcript accumulation was also induced by the bacterial pathogens Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Pseudomonas syringae, the fungal necrotrophs Botrytis cinerea and Alternaria brassicicola, and the oomycete Phytophthora infestans (Supplemental Fig. S11). Specifier proteins such as ESM1 do not have direct hydrolytic activity on glucosinolates, but they do influence the type of glucosinolate hydrolysis product formed (CITATION). To elucidate the molecular function of MVP1, we tested its annotation as a putative MyAP by assessing the ability of MVP1:glutathione S-transferase (GST) recombinant protein to interact with TGG1 and TGG2. In a pull-down experiment using crude Arabidopsis extracts, we detected a specific interaction between MVP1:GST and TGG2 that was absent in the tgg2-2 knockout mutant (Fig. 5A ). Furthermore, we did not detect a similar interaction between MVP1:GST and TGG1, even in the tgg2-2 mutant, suggesting that MVP1 interacted with TGG2 in a highly specific manner. We also tested whether MVP1 interacted with other known defense-related β-glucosidase enzymes. Neither PYK10 (CITATION) nor PEN2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) interacted with MVP1 in GST pull-down assays (data not shown). We examined the microarray databases to determine the coexpression patterns of MVP1 and TGG2. MVP1 and TGG2 are coexpressed in aerial tissues, where we observed the aggregate formation phenotype (Supplemental Figs. S7 and S9). There was no detectable expression of TGG2 in roots, where we did not observe aggregates. Queries of the developmental expression patterns of the two genes revealed that both were expressed throughout the plant life cycle (Supplemental Figs. S7, S9, and S10). [[FIGURE]] We next evaluated the capacity of mvp1-1 to hydrolyze glucosinolates. ESM1 was previously characterized by its ability to alter hydrolysis of glucosinolate such that an esm1 mutant showed increased nitrile production (CITATION). We performed similar experiments to assess the effect of the mvp1-1 mutation on glucosinolate hydrolysis. Extracts from rosette leaves of 4-week-old GFP:δ-TIP and mvp1-1 plants were incubated with allyl glucosinolate substrate and analyzed by gas chromatography for the presence of nitrile and isothiocyanate breakdown products. A natural knockout polymorphism in ESP leads to a lack of epithionitrile specifier activity and hence epithionitriles within the Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype (CITATION; CITATION). However, the mvp1-1 mutation caused an increase in the amount of nitrile formed (Fig. 5B). There was no statistically significant difference in isothiocyanate production (P = 0.53; Fig. 5C). These changes in glucosinolate hydrolysis were statistically significant but not as severe as in the esm1 knockout mutant, which increases nitrile production to almost 10% and leads to a dramatic decrease in the production of isothiocyanate (CITATION). We previously identified MVP1 in the tonoplast (CITATION). In order to determine whether there are additional sites of localization, we transiently expressed MVP1:GFP in Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). MVP1 showed an ER-like pattern with a characteristic network of GFP around the cell periphery (Fig. 6A ), dotted with spindle-shaped structures that appeared to be ER bodies (Fig. 6B; CITATION). We also observed GFP fluorescence in transvacuolar strands (Fig. 6C), confirming that MVP1 was localized to the tonoplast. [[FIGURE]] ER bodies are ER-derived organelles present in both constitutive and induced forms, where the induced forms are present in wounded tissues (CITATION). Electron microscopy has shown that the bodies are localized to the ER lumen (CITATION). Furthermore, the MVP1 gene (referred to as GLL25 in that study) was found to be down-regulated in the ER body formation mutant nai1 (CITATION). Because there was strong localization of MVP1:GFP to the ER bodies, we examined whether there was a connection between MVP1 and ER body formation. A fusion of GFP to the ER retention signal HDEL is known to label ER bodies in stable Arabidopsis transformants (CITATION). Here, we used transient transformation of Arabidopsis seedlings with the same construct and found a similar pattern in wild-type plants (Fig. 6D). However, mvp1-1 accumulated GFP signal in aggregates and reduced numbers of ER bodies in epidermal cells (Fig. 6, E and F), indicating that MVP1 may play a role in ER body formation. After demonstrating that MVP1 specifically interacts with the myrosinase protein TGG2, we sought to evaluate trafficking of TGG2 in the mvp1 mutant. A TGG2:GFP binary construct was stably transformed into mvp1-1 plants. Resistant lines were isolated, and progeny were examined by confocal microscopy. The majority of the fluorescent reporter was localized to aggregates, with the remainder localized to the ER and, occasionally, to ER bodies (Fig. 7 ), demonstrating that TGG2 trafficking is impeded in the mvp1-1 mutant. We also examined TGG1 in the mvp1 background. We created a TGG1:GFP binary construct and transiently transformed this construct and the TGG2:GFP binary construct used for stable transformation into Col-0, mvp1-1, and mvp1-2 seedlings. Confocal microscopy of transformed seedlings revealed that TGG2:GFP localization in wild-type and mutant seedlings was consistent with that observed for stably transformed seedlings, and the marker was localized primarily to the aggregates. The localization of TGG1:GFP was identical to that of TGG2:GFP in wild-type and mutant backgrounds (Supplemental Fig. S12). These results reinforce our hypothesis that the mvp1 mutations cause global trafficking blocks early in the endomembrane trafficking system. [[FIGURE]] Given the association of MVP1 and TGG2, and the effects of the mvp1-1 mutation on nitrile levels, we asked if there were trafficking defects in other known glucosinolate metabolism mutants. Using FM4-64, we showed that neither esm1 nor esp knockout lines formed aggregate structures as observed in the mvp1-1 alleles (Supplemental Fig. S1). We did not observe any other obvious malformations in membrane structures of the esm1 and esp mutants. We also tested the gravitropic responses of the esm1 and esp mutants and did not detect any differences compared with the wild-type response (data not shown), suggesting that neither of these proteins has trafficking functions. Although MVP1 was annotated as a lipase, its putative lipolytic sequence was divergent from the canonical GDSL motif, which in wild-type Col-0 plants is GDGL. The modified catalytic sequence raised questions about whether MVP1 was actually a lipase. We fused both wild-type and mutant proteins to GST tags to facilitate purification after expression in Escherichia coli. Recombinant MVP1 protein was isolated and purified along with the secreted GDSL lipase protein GLIP1 (CITATION), which was used as a positive control. The glip1 mutant protein and GST were also expressed and used as negative controls (Supplemental Fig. S13A). Hydrolysis of the substrate p-nitrophenyl acetate was measured over time to determine lipase activity. GLIP1 hydrolyzed the substrate in a linear fashion over time, whereas the glip1 mutant protein was deficient in esterase activity. Although we used a 5-fold higher amount of MVP1 recombinant protein compared with the positive control (5 versus 1 μg), MVP1 did not hydrolyze p-nitrophenyl acetate (Supplemental Fig. S13B). The mvp1-1 mutant protein showed a similar lack of activity. We concluded that MVP1 did not act as an esterase for this particular substrate in vitro, and the mvp1-1 mutation had no effect on this lack of activity. The assay described above tested activity on a short-chain acyl substrate (esterase assay); thus, we also conducted plate assays to determine whether MVP1 could hydrolyze different lipid substrates. BL21 (DE3) E. coli carrying various expression constructs was spotted on the plates containing one of three substrates: tributyrin (for esterase activity), Tween 20 (lipase activity), and Tween 80 (lipase activity). All plates were spotted with E. coli cells expressing MVP1:GST, mvp1-1:GST, or an empty vector; E. coli expressing a GDSL lipase from the tropical tree Jacaranda mimosifolia was used as a positive control (CITATION). Both the MVP1 and mvp1-1 constructs were negative for the formation of halos and precipitate, further demonstrating that MVP1 does not act as a lipase or esterase (data not shown).
!~MM~! The mvp1-1 mutant was isolated from a population of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) 35S:GFP:δ-TIP plants (Col-0 ecotype; CITATION) treated with ethyl methanesulfonate (CITATION). mvp1-1 was backcrossed to GFP:δ-TIP twice. mvp1-1 plants were outcrossed to wild-type Col-0 to remove the GFP:δ-TIP transgene. Homozygous mvp1-1 (−GFP) plants were crossed with plants expressing fluorescent fusions to endomembrane proteins specific for the ER (YFP:Sec12; G. Drakakaki and N.V. Raikhel, unpublished data), Golgi (35S:NAG1:GFP; CITATION), vacuole (35S:GFP:γ-TIP-like; CITATION), and plasma membrane (35S:GFP:PIP2a; CITATION). mvp1-2 mutants were obtained from the SALK T-DNA collection (SALK_030621). Seeds were surface sterilized in 50% bleach and 0.1% Triton X-100 solution and grown on plates containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium + MES buffer (PlantMedia) and 1% Suc. Plants were incubated at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark), except for the gravitropism, carbon limitation, and pathogen sensitivity assays, conditions for which are described in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Confocal images were collected with a Leica TCS SP2/UV laser scanning confocal microscope system, and high-throughput visual inspection of mapping populations was carried-out with the BD Pathway HT system (BD Biosciences; CITATION). Endomembrane structures were visualized after incubation in a solution of liquid Murashige and Skoog growth medium supplemented with 10 μm FM4-64 (Molecular Probes, Invitrogen) for the described time periods. To visualize DNA, seedlings were incubated with 10 μg mL−1 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole in phosphate-buffered saline for 40 to 60 min. mvp1-1 mutants (Col-0 background expressing 35S:GFP:δ-TIP) were outcrossed to Landsberg erecta to generate a mapping population. Forty-eight F2 recombinant mvp1-1 homozygotes were analyzed with 22 simple sequence length polymorphism markers spanning the five Arabidopsis chromosomes (CITATION). Markers were developed from the Monsanto (Cereon) Arabidopsis Polymorphism Collection (CITATION) for fine-scale mapping of 493 F2 recombinant mvp1-1 mutants (for primer sequences, see Supplemental Table S1). Twenty-four genes were sequenced in the 110-kb fine-map region. A 4.0-kb fragment containing upstream sequence, the full-length MVP1 gene, and downstream sequences was amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA using the following primers: At1g54030 L (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGC-3′) and At1g54030 R (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGG-3′). The PCR product was cloned into the pDONR207 vector and then cloned into the pMDC100 binary vector using previously published methods (CITATION). DNA was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV2101 for introduction into homozygous mvp1-1 plants by floral dip (CITATION). T1 seeds were selected on agar growth medium supplemented with 50 mg mL−1 kanamycin and examined by laser scanning confocal microscopy. Transcript levels for MVP1 were analyzed with RT-PCR for 25 cycles using gene-specific primers 5′-CTTCCCTCTTCTTCTTCTCCA-3′ and 5′-CGTTGATAGAGCCAGTTCCA-3′. Primers for the ACTIN7 gene were 5′-AAAATGGCCGATGGTGAGG-3′ and 5′-ACTCACCACCACGAACCAG-3′. Related protein sequences were identified by BLASTP searches with an E value cutoff of 1e−10 against the protein sequences from nine databases: Arabidopsis (The Arabidopsis Information Resource annotation 7), Oryza sativa (The Institute for Genomic Research annotation 5), Populus trichocarpa (Joint Genome Institute [JGI] version 1.1), Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (JGI version 3.1), Ostreococcus tauri (JGI version 2.0), Phaeodactylum tricornutum (JGI version 2.0), Physcomitrella patens (JGI version 1.1), Selaginella moellendorffii (JGI version 1.0), and the UniProt database (February 2008). Duplicated sequences within and between databases were removed from the data set. Multiple sequence alignments were generated with the T-Coffee program (CITATION), and motif searches were performed with custom scripts. An initial global multiple alignment and guide tree was constructed for all 907 sequences. The guide tree was calculated with the PHYLIP package (CITATION) using the PROTDIST program for calculating the distance matrix, the neighbor-joining method for tree construction, and the midpoint method in RETREE for defining the root of the tree. A subclade in the guide tree with 12 members including MVP1 was selected for the final phylogenetic analysis. These 12 protein sequences plus one outgroup (At1g53990) sequence were used to compute a high-quality multiple alignment. The final phylogenetic analysis was performed with two different tree construction methods: the Bayesian phylogenic inference implemented in the program MrBayes (CITATION) and the neighbor-joining method from the PHYLIP package (see above). The Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis with MrBayes was performed according to the recommendations of the program manual (version 3.1). The mixed amino acid substitution model was chosen and the simulation was set to 2,000,000 generations. The final tree from Figure 4 was plotted with the APE package from the statistical R environment using the At1g53990 sequence as outgroup for rooting the tree (CITATION; CITATION). The neighbor-joining analysis with PHYLIP was performed as described above. Bootstrap values for this analysis were computed from 1,000 alignment resampling steps. Cloning and protein expression were performed as described previously (CITATION) using PCR primers with appended sequences for BamHI and XhoI cloning sites (lowercase and underlined): 5′-gagaggatccATGCTTTTGATACCTTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-gagactcgagTTATATCATAAAGGAG-3′ (reverse). The mvp1-1 (G57E) mutant clone was generated by mutagenic PCR using the following primers with one mismatch (lowercase): 5′-GACGCTCTTTGTGTTCGaAGATGGTCTTTACGACGCC-3′ (forward) and 5′-GTCGTAAAGACCATCTtCGAACACAAAGAGCGTCTG-3′ (reverse). Protein expression was induced and lipase activity was measured as described using GLIP1 and glip1 recombinant proteins as positive and negative controls, respectively (CITATION). To assay for MVP1 lipase activity in E. coli, we performed assays as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, isolated E. coli BL21 (DE3) colonies transformed with the MVP1:GST or mvp1:GST expression construct, or empty vector, were dotted on substrate plates containing 100 mg mL−1 ampicillin, 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside, 1 mm CaCl2, and one of the following lipid substrates (1% [v/v]): Tween 20, Tween 80, or tributyrin. On plates with tributyrin as a lipid substrate, the presence of clear halos around the bacterial colonies was indicative of esterase activity. Correspondingly, the formation of a precipitate around bacterial colonies on Tween 20 or Tween 80 plates demonstrated lipase activity. E. coli heterologously expressing a GDSL lipase, JNP1, from Jacaranda mimosifolia was used as a positive control (CITATION). Partially purified MVP1:GST or GST proteins were bound to glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham Biosciences) and incubated with protein extracts from Arabidopsis Col-0 or tgg2-2 (SAIL_237_G11; CITATION) in pull-down buffer and incubated at 4°C for 1 h with shaking (CITATION). Beads were washed four times with pull-down buffer, and bound proteins were eluted and separated by 12% SDS-PAGE followed by immunoblot analysis with anti-TGG1 or anti-TGG2 antibodies, which were kindly provided by Ikuko Hara-Nishimura (CITATION). The structural outcome of glucosinolate activation was assayed using a modified version of a previously published protocol (CITATION). Briefly, 100 mg of 4-week-old rosette tissue was homogenized in 1 mL of MES acid buffer (pH 6.0) and 0.4 μmol of allyl glucosinolate and incubated for 5 min. Glucosinolate activation products were extracted with dichloromethane for analysis by gas chromatography as described using a gas chromatography-mass spectral detector (Agilent HP 6890 with an Agilent 5973N mass spectral detector), and peak identities for nitrile and isothiocyanate were established by comparison with published mass spectra (CITATION; CITATION). Differences between the genotypes were tested using Student's t tests. MVP1, TGG1, and TGG2 were amplified using the primers shown in Supplemental Table S2. The forward primers contained the attB1 sites. The reverse primers contained attB2 sites and lacked termination codons in order to create C-terminal GFP fusions. The PCR products were cloned into the pDONR207 vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced. We then carried out an LR recombination reaction using LR clonase (Invitrogen) and the Gateway-compatible binary vector pGWB5 (from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Research Institute of Molecular Genetics, Shimane University). mvp1-1 plants were stably transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). Col-0, mvp1-1, and mvp1-2 plants were transiently transformed using a vacuum infiltration procedure (CITATION). The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for the MVP1 gene is At1g54030. ACTIN7 is At5g09810, GLIP1 is At5g40990, and SALT OVERLY SENSITIVE2 (SOS2) is At5g35410. TGG1 is At5g26000 and TGG2 is At5g25980. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. mvp1, esm, and esp mutants stained with FM4-64. Supplemental Figure S2. Phenotypic analysis of mvp1-1. Supplemental Figure S3. NaCl treatment of mvp1 mutants. Supplemental Figure S4. Positional cloning of mvp1-1. Supplemental Figure S5. MVP1 contains a putative signal peptide for entry into the ER. Supplemental Figure S6. Sequence alignment of putative myrosinase-associated proteins from Arabidopsis and oilseed rape. Supplemental Figure S7. Spatial expression of MVP1, Arabidopsis MyAPs, and TGG2. Supplemental Figure S8. GFP aggregates in early mvp1 seedling development. Supplemental Figure S9. Developmental expression patterns of MVP1, Arabidopsis MyAPs, and TGG2. Supplemental Figure S10. RT-PCR of MVP1 and TGG2. Supplemental Figure S11. MVP1 expression is induced by pathogens and methyl jasmonate. Supplemental Figure S12. Vacuolar delivery of TGG2:GFP and TGG1:GFP is impeded in mvp1 alleles. Supplemental Figure S13. MVP1 does not act as a GDSL lipase. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used for fine mapping of mvp1-1. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used to create GFP fusion constructs. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used for RT-PCR. Supplemental Table S4. Percent sequence identity among putative myrosinase-associated proteins. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1.
