!~ABS~! AtTRB1, 2 and 3 are members of the SMH (single Myb histone) protein family, which comprises double-stranded DNA-binding proteins that are specific to higher plants. They are structurally conserved, containing a Myb domain at the N-terminus, a central H1/H5-like domain and a C-terminally located coiled-coil domain. AtTRB1, 2 and 3 interact through their Myb domain specifically with telomeric double-stranded DNA in vitro, while the central H1/H5-like domain interacts non-specifically with DNA sequences and mediates protein–protein interactions. Here we show that AtTRB1, 2 and 3 preferentially localize to the nucleus and nucleolus during interphase. Both the central H1/H5-like domain and the Myb domain from AtTRB1 can direct a GFP fusion protein to the nucleus and nucleolus. AtTRB1–GFP localization is cell cycle-regulated, as the level of nuclear-associated GFP diminishes during mitotic entry and GFP progressively re-associates with chromatin during anaphase/telophase. Using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching and fluorescence loss in photobleaching, we determined the dynamics of AtTRB1 interactions in vivo. The results reveal that AtTRB1 interaction with chromatin is regulated at two levels at least, one of which is coupled with cell-cycle progression, with the other involving rapid exchange.
!~RES~! To determine the subcellular localization of AtTRB proteins, we produced translational fusions of AtTRB1, 2 and 3 (uniprotkb IDs Q8VWK4, Q8VX38 and Q9M2X3, respectively) in which the GFP cDNA was fused to the 5′ end (N-terminus) of the AtTRB cDNA, and expressed under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter (35S::GFP::protein fusion). These constructs were transiently transformed into Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 cells. Surprisingly, all three fusion proteins preferentially localized to the nucleolus (Figure 1a). Only a small proportion of the signal was more generally distributed throughout the nucleus and formed speckles of various sizes in most cells (Figure 1a-ii,iii). GFP–AtTRB fusion proteins also labelled the cytoplasm weakly (Figure 4), and were less concentrated in a region at the centre of the nucleolus, probably corresponding to the nucleolar cavity (Figure 1a-i,ii). Speckle-like structures were not present in stably transformed BY-2 calli or A. thaliana plants (Figure 1b,c), in which the level of protein expression tends to be lower than after transient transformation, even when expression is driven by the 35S promoter. The preferential nucleolar localization was observed in all tissues. To confirm these results, expression of GFP–AtTRB1 under the control of the native AtTRB1 promoter was tested; the localization of the protein was the same as that found using the 35S expression system, although the expression level was lower (Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the structures to which AtTRB1–3 localized did indeed correspond to nucleoli, we co-transformed Arabidopsis cells with the nucleolar marker fibrillarin fused to mRFP. Fibrillarin is a methyl transferase involved in pre-rRNA processing and ribosome assembly, and has been shown to be present in the nucleolus and in Cajal bodies in mammals, yeast and plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The clear and consistent co-localization between GFP–AtTRB1–3 and fibrillarin–mRFP confirmed that the larger spherical bodies corresponded to nucleoli (Figure 2a,b). In many cases, more than one nucleolus was present in the cell, and we confirmed this by DAPI staining on isolated nuclei. Cultured cells have a variable ploidy, which could explain the variable number of nucleoli per cell. The number of nucleoli also varies through interphase, decreasing as interphase progresses. [[FIGURE]] Other, smaller GFP–AtTRB1-labelled bodies were also present throughout the nucleus. Judging by their size and location, these bodies are unlikely to represent telomeres, and are more likely to be other nuclear bodies such as Cajal bodies or speckles. To investigate the identity of these other bodies in the nucleus (Figure 1a-ii,iii), we used coilin–mRFP and SRp30–mRFP markers, which define Cajal bodies and splicing speckles, respectively. However, we did not find consistent co-localization between these factors, suggesting that the smaller labelled bodies are neither Cajal bodies nor speckles. To examine the telomeric localization of GFP–AtTRB1, nuclei isolated from stably transformed A. thaliana cultures were subjected to immunofluorescence using anti-GFP antibody combined with telomere-FISH. Fixation and immunological detection revealed a more speckled pattern of GFP–AtTRB than observed in living cells, but the speckles were distributed in the nucleus and nucleolus in a similar pattern to the native GFP–AtTRB1 signals. However, in contrast to living cells, isolated nuclei after fixation and immunodetection lose the preferential nucleolar localization of GFP–AtTRB1. Co-localization of GFP–AtTRB1 with telomeric foci was observed in 112 out of 980 foci (11.4%) examined on optical Z-sections (Figures 3 and S2). [[FIGURE]] As a clear localization of AtTRB1 to the nucleolus was observed in living cells, we addressed the question of which part of the protein is responsible. PSORT prediction (CITATION) indicates a potential nuclear localization signal (NLS) at amino acid position 191 located at the end of the histone-like domain. We split AtTRB1 into three parts based on the predicted domains, cloned these fragments to produce GFP fusion proteins (Figure 4a), and transiently expressed them in cell cultures. The Myb domain fused to GFP showed strong general nuclear signal (Figure 4b-i) with some nucleolar localization. Significant cytoplasmic signal was also detected. The histone-like domain alone, or in combination with the Myb domain, produced a more discrete nucleolar signal with reduced general nuclear signal, and no detectable cytoplasmic signal (Figure 4b-ii). The coiled-coil domain was localized throughout the cell (Figure 4b-iii), with a pattern similar to that of free GFP (Figure 4b-v), although there was some variability in nuclear signal: 21 out of 26 cells showed nuclear signal but the signal was excluded from the nucleus in five cells. We conclude that the centrally located globular histone-like domain is sufficient for nucleolar localization but the Myb domain also contributes. To study the behaviour of AtTRB1 during the cell cycle, we transformed Arabidopsis plants with GFP–AtTRB1. The localization of GFP–AtTRB1 in plants corresponded to that found in the cultured cells, with most signal concentrated in the nucleolus and weaker signal in the nucleus and cytoplasm. One notable difference from the Arabidopsis suspension cells was that extra-nucleolar bodies were not detected. The GFP signal in plants was much weaker in comparison to that seen in cultured cells, suggesting a lower level of expression. The protein localization was quite consistent, without any significant differences among interphase cells. However, time-lapse microscopy of 2–3-day-old seedlings revealed that GFP–AtTRB1 localization changes during mitosis (Figure 5a). As GFP–AtTRB1 protein is located in the nucleolus, we used this as a marker of G2 cells, and selected cells with enlarged nucleoli for the time-lapse microscopy. The level of nuclear-associated GFP–AtTRB1 progressively decreased and became more dispersed as the cell entered mitosis (Figure 5a, scan 2), suggesting that re-distribution to the cytoplasm is a consequence of nuclear envelope breakdown and nucleolar disassembly. During the subsequent stages of mitosis, the fluorescence level stabilized, followed by a slow increase during anaphase and telophase. The GFP–AtTRB1 signal during mitosis is largely restricted to the region containing the mitotic chromosomes (arrows in Figure 5a, scans 7–10). The proportion of fusion protein that remained associated with chromatin during mitosis was quite low (approximately 30% of initial fluorescence intensity), but it is important to consider that overall sample bleaching is relatively high in such a long run time-lapse experiment (approximately 30% as estimated by measuring the fluorescence intensity in the control cell; Figure 5b, blue line) and this generally has a greater effect on weak dispersed signals than on concentrated intense ones. In early anaphase, the GFP–AtTRB1 level was progressively restored and re-localized to the nucleolus after cytokinesis and phragmoplast formation (Movie S1). [[FIGURE]] To examine the dynamics of AtTRB1 in interphase, we used FLIP and FRAP to follow protein movement. As the majority of AtTRB1 was detected in the nucleolus with a weaker signal in the nucleus, we measured FRAP and FLIP for the two main compartments (nucleus and nucleolus) separately. Three-day-old seedlings of GFP–AtTRB1-transformed plants were used for in vivo experiments, and a special biochamber with a gas-permeable biomembrane was used to observe plants under physiological conditions (CITATION). We compared acquired FRAP values of GFP–AtTRB1 dynamics with those for GFP–H2A and GFP, which were used as experimental controls. To examine the mobility potential and nucleus–nucleolus exchange rate of GFP–AtTRB1, we used FLIP, in which an entire region is repeatedly bleached over time and the consequent decrease in fluorescence of adjacent regions is measured. For GFP–AtTRB1, fluorescence was lost from both the nucleolus as well as the nucleoplasm when the nucleolar region was bleached (Figure 6f-i,ii). As most of the signal is concentrated in the nucleolus, FLIP is much faster when the nucleolus is continuously bleached (Figure 6a, yellow line). When an identically sized region in the nucleus was bleached over the same number of time points, the fluorescence in the nucleolus and adjacent nuclear regions was not depleted completely (Figure 6b, yellow line). However, by increasing either the number of scans or the size of the bleached region, the fluorescence intensity dropped to the level of background after nuclear bleaching (Figure 6c, yellow line). [[FIGURE]] As a control, plants expressing free GFP and GFP–H2A were also subjected to FLIP. In the case of free GFP, the fluorescence dropped to the background level independently of the region selected. Thus, free GFP located in the nucleus and the cytoplasm was freely mobile among these compartments (Figure 6e,f-iv). Approximately 30% of GFP–H2A remained tightly bound to the chromatin, as expected (Figure 6d,f-iii). These results suggest that AtTRB1 is a mobile protein with a high exchange rate between the nucleus and nucleolus, and that it is less stably bound to the chromatin than H2A is. We used FRAP to investigate the dynamics of AtTRB1 further. We recently investigated the DNA-binding properties of this protein in vitro (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), but the dynamics of this interaction have not previously been investigated in vivo. In FRAP, a region is briefly bleached by intense laser power, and the recovery of fluorescence over the subsequent time period provides a measure of the rate at which the bleached protein is replaced dynamically by unbleached protein. Stably bound proteins, such as histones, recover slowly over several hours and only to levels of 10–20%. In contrast, HMG (high mobility group) proteins, transcription and splicing factors are highly dynamic and recover to nearly 100% within minutes or seconds. In the structure of AtTRB1, two conserved domains (Myb and H1/H5-like) appear to have distinct functions that may influence protein dynamics in the two major cellular compartments – the nucleus and nucleolus – in which GFP–AtTRB1 localizes. We measured FRAP for the nucleus and nucleolus of GFP–AtTRB1-expressing plants separately. We found that GFP–AtTRB1 recovered in both compartments in a similar manner, with a t½ of <1 sec and time required for full recovery (approximately 80–90% of initial fluorescence intensity) of 10 sec (Figure 7c, blue and red lines). As experimental controls, we used free GFP and GFP–H2A (Figure 7c, pink and purple lines, respectively). The recovery parameters (t½ <0.5 sec, full recovery 8.2 sec) for free GFP were slightly faster than GFP–AtTRB1, which is consistent with a higher diffusion rate for free GFP. Using the same settings and a region of the same size, the fluorescence intensity at the bleaching point dropped to approximately 50% of the initial fluorescence intensity in the nucleolus of AtTRB1, while the free GFP bleaching was much less efficient, with only a 20% fluorescence intensity decrease (Figure 7c, time point 0). This effect can be explained by the fast return of free GFP molecules to the region of bleaching by rapid diffusion. The relationship between bleaching efficiency and protein mobility was clearly demonstrated by the fact that GFP–H2A could be bleached to as low as 20% of initial fluorescence (Figure 7c, time point 0, purple line). H2A is a tightly bound molecule that recovered to only approximately 5% within the time frame of this short experiment (15 sec time-lapse experiment). When the samples were subjected to fixation by 4% formaldehyde, the mobility of both free GFP and AtTRB1 was abolished. Thus we conclude that AtTRB1 protein is highly dynamic, and its association with both nuclear compartments seems to involve fast protein exchange. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The cDNA clones AtTRB1 (At1g49950), AtTRB2 (At5g67580) and AtTRB3 (At3g49850) were kindly provided by Bernd Weisshaar (Faculty of Biology, Bielefeld University, Germany; http://www.genomforschung.uni-bielefeld.de/GF-home/index.html). Gateway® technology (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) was used to generate entry clones in two-step PCR. The first set of primers, containing part of recombination sites attB1 or attB2 and part of the gene-specific sequence (AtTRB1, AtTRB2 or AtTRB3) were subjected to a PCR reaction (PCR1) with the Pfx polymerase (Invitrogen) under the following conditions: initial denaturation at 95°C for 2 min, followed by 10 cycles of 95°C for 15 sec, 53°C for 30 sec and 68°C for 3 min, followed by 68°C for 7 min (final extension). The second set of primers corresponded to the complete attB1 and attB2 sites only, and 10 μl of PCR1 product was used as a template. The first five cycles were run under the same conditions as PCR1, but the annealing temperature was lowered to 45°C to allow sufficient annealing of linker-containing primers, followed by 20 cycles of the same conditions as used in PCR1. Typically 0.16 mm dNTPs, 0.6 μm of each primer, 1 mm MgCl2, 2× PCR enhancer for PCR1 or 0.8× PCR enhancer for PCR2, and 1.5 units of Pfx were used in a 50 μl reaction. The cDNA entry clone for fibrillarin (At5g52470) has been described by CITATION. A list of primers and their sequences is given in Table 1, with gene-specific regions highlighted in bold. Truncated AtTRB1 clones were amplified from the AtTRB1 cDNA clone using Hot Start Phusion polymerase (Finnzymes, http://www.finnzymes.com). Fragments corresponding to each domain were prepared using a combination of primers (Table 1) as follows: Myb domain, A + B; Myb and histone-like domains, A + C; histone-like domain, C + D; coiled-coil domain, E + F; histone-like and coiled-coil domains, D + F. Typically 0.2 mm dNTPs, 0.5 μm of each primer, 1× HF reaction buffer (Finnzymes) and 0.4 units of polymerase were used in a 20 μl reaction. The thermal conditions were 98°C for 30 sec (initial denaturation), followed by five cycles of 98°C for 10 sec, 50°C for 10 sec and 72°C for 10 sec and 20 cycles of 98°C for 10 sec, 62°C for 10 sec and 72°C for 10 sec, with a final extension at 72°C for 5 min. The PCR products were cleaned using a PCR purification column (QIAQuick; Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/) and recombined into pDON207 (Invitrogen) by BP reaction (Gateway® technology, Invitrogen). All plasmid inserts were verified by sequencing. Subsequent LR reactions (Gateway® technology, Invitrogen) were performed in accordance with the Invitrogen manual. All AtTRB entry clones were recombined into the plant destination vector pGWB6 (kindly provided by Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Research Institute of Molecular Genetics, Shimane University, Matsue, Japan), which contains GFP fusion at the N-terminus and a constitutive 35S promotor. Fibrillarin was recombined into the pROK2-mRFP destination vector (kindly provided by Sang-Hyon Kim and John Brown, Scottish Crop Research Institute, Dundee, UK) containing mRFP for C-terminal fusions and a constitutive 35S promotor. The experimental controls 35S::GFP and 35::GFP::H2A (At1g51060) were obtained from Keke Yi (Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China) and Peter McKeown (John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK), respectively. Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells (strain GV3101for AtTRB1 truncated variants and pBBR1MCS.virGN54D for other vectors) were transformed by heat shock and used for transformation of plant cells. Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 suspension culture cells were transformed as described previously (CITATION). In co-transformation experiments for transient expression, Agrobacterium containing GFP–AtTRB1 fusion and Agrobacterium containing fibrillarin–mRFP were mixed in a 3:5 ratio, added to the culture (ratio 1:500), and the transformed culture was typically observed the 3–4 days after transformation, as maturation of mRFP takes longer compared with GFP. Tobacco BY-2 cells were stably transformed with 35S::GFP::AtTRB1 as described by CITATION. The 35S::GFP::AtTRB1 construct was transformed into the A. thaliana C24 ecotype by floral dipping as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, flower buds of young plants were infiltrated with A. tumefaciens in the presence of 5% sucrose and 0.02% Silwet L-77 (Lehle Seeds, http://www.arabidopsis.com/) for 6 min, then left overnight in a plastic bag to retain high humidity. Seeds obtained from transformed plants were selected on MS/0.8% agar plates containing 200 μg/ml kanamycin, and resistant plants were checked under the microscope for GFP expression. Expression of the GFP–AtTRB1 fusion protein was confirmed by Western blot. Images of transformed cells were acquired using Leica SP2 (http://www.leica.com/) or Zeiss 510 (http://www.zeiss.com/) confocal microscopes (488 nm laser for GFP and 561 nm for mRFP) and processed using ImageJ software (http://www.rsb.info.nih.gov.ij). Nuclei were isolated from the GFP–AtTRB1-transformed A. thaliana cell culture as described by CITATION, deposited onto microscopic slides using a cytospin slide centrifuge at 550 g for 3 min and fixed in 4% w/v paraformaldehyde for 30 min, followed by washing three times for 5 min each in 1× PBS. Non-specific antibody binding was prevented by blocking using 2× blocking solution (Roche, http://www.roche.com)/5% v/v goat serum in 1×PBS for 30 min at room temperature. Nuclei were then incubated with the primary antibody against GFP (Roche), diluted 1 in 200 for 90 min at 37°C, washed three times of 5 min in 1× PBS/0.05% Tween, and incubated with Alexa 488-conjugated secondary antibody at a 1 in 500 dilution (Molecular Probes, http://probes.invitrogen.com) for 1 h at 37°C, and washed three times for 5 min in 1× PBS. After 10 min fixation in 4% paraformaldehyde and washing in 1× PBS, 20 μl of hybridization mix containing 65% deionized formamide/10% dextran sulfate and 0.2 μl of telomeric PNA probe was applied on each slide. Slides were denatured in a microwave oven at approximately 500 W for 45 sec and hybridized overnight in a moist chamber at 37°C. Slide were washed in 2× SSC preheated to 40°C, and once in 0.1× SSC/0.5% Tween, and subjected to microscopy on an Olympus BX60 microscope (http://www.olympus-global.com/). Sixty cells with a total of approximately 980 telomeres were scored for co-localization using the ImageJ RGB profiler tool. Seeds were sterilized in 5% bleach (10 min), washed overnight in water, vernalized in the fridge for 3 days, and grown vertically on solid MS/sucrose/0.8% agar medium. Typically 2–3-day-old seedlings were subjected to microscopy. Plants were sealed in a biochamber comprising a cover slip, double-sided tape and gas-permeable membrane (BioFOLIE; VivaScience, http://www.vivascience.com) to maintain physiologically normal conditions. To study the behaviour of GFP–AtTRB1 during the cell cycle, a VisiTech spinning disk confocal technology (VisiTech, http://www.visitech.co.uk) connected to a Nikon E800 microscope (http://www.nikon.com/) was used. Optical Z-sections of the root tip were taken at 30–90 sec intervals for up to 4 h. Images of mitotic cells were analysed using metamorph (http://www.moleculardevices.com) and ImageJ software. Analysis was performed on 3-day-old seedlings sealed in a biochamber (see above) using a Zeiss 510 microscope with the following settings: GFP excitation at 488 nm, BP filter 505–550 nm, airy pinhole, 0.4% laser power, scanning speed 8, bi-directional scanning, magnification 6–7. The sample was scanned for 30 time points (0.2 sec each) to obtain the overall fluorescence level, then a circular region of 2 μm diameter was bleached at 100% laser power (488 nm), and 130 scans (0.2 sec each) were taken to monitor recovery over a region of 256 × 128 pixels. Typically 5–10 cells were analysed for each experiment, and the results were normalized and averaged. The background was subtracted from the original values. The 30 pre-scan values were averaged and count as 100% = 1. All values were then normalized accordingly. For FLIP, a region of 3 or 4 μm diameter was bleached continuously over 250 scans and the loss of fluorescence was measured in the bleaching area as well as surrounding areas. Microscope settings were laser power 1.5–1.7%, 250 scans at scanning speed 11, bleaching iteration 20, image size 512 × 256 pixels.
