!~ABS~! Cytokinesis represents the final stage of eukaryotic cell division during which the cytoplasm becomes partitioned between daughter cells. The process differs to some extent between animal and plant cells, but proteins of the syntaxin family mediate membrane fusion in the plane of cell division in diverse organisms. How syntaxin localization is kept in check remains elusive. Here, we report that localization of the Arabidopsis KNOLLE syntaxin in the plane of cell division is maintained by sterol-dependent endocytosis involving a clathrin- and DYNAMIN-RELATED PROTEIN1A-dependent mechanism. On genetic or pharmacological interference with endocytosis, KNOLLE mis-localizes to lateral plasma membranes after cell-plate fusion. Fluorescence-loss-in-photo-bleaching and fluorescence-recovery-after-photo-bleaching experiments reveal lateral diffusion of GFP-KNOLLE from the plane of division to lateral membranes. In an endocytosis-defective sterol biosynthesis mutant displaying lateral KNOLLE diffusion, KNOLLE secretory trafficking remains unaffected. Thus, restriction of lateral diffusion by endocytosis may serve to maintain specificity of syntaxin localization during late cytokinesis.
!~RES~! To address whether altered sterol composition affects KNOLLE protein localization, we immunolocalized KNOLLE in the root meristem of Arabidopsis seedlings defective in sterol biosynthesis genes or treated with a sterol biosynthesis inhibitor. We used the cpi1-1 mutant, which produces cyclopropylsterols as main sterol components (CITATIONet al, 2008) and two smt1 mutants that accumulate cholesterol above wild-type levels (CITATIONet al, 2002; CITATIONet al, 2003). Alternatively, we included the sterol biosynthesis inhibitor fenpropimorph (fen) into the growth medium, at concentrations known to induce strong cyclopropylsterol accumulation (CITATIONet al, 2003). In contrast to the wild type, which displayed KNOLLE localization in the plane of cell division (CITATION; CITATION), KNOLLE could be observed at lateral PMs in cpi1-1 mutant cells, cells of fen-treated roots, smt1orc and smt1cphG213 mutant root cells after cell-plate fusion (CITATION). In contrast, we never observed lateral KNOLLE mis-localization during earlier stages of the cell cycle (CITATION), suggesting that KNOLLE localization in the plane of cell division critically depends on correct sterol composition after cell-plate fusion. The cell-plate-localized proteins RAB-A2a fused to yellow fluorescent protein (YFP-RAB-A2a) (CITATION) as well as DYNAMIN-RELATED PROTEIN1A (DRP1A)-GFP (also known as ADL1A-GFP; CITATIONet al, 2003) (CITATION) did not display the lateral mis-localization observed for KNOLLE in the cpi1-1 mutant background (CITATION), suggesting some specificity of this effect to KNOLLE. We focused subsequent analyses on the cpi1-1 mutant, because it displays the strongest alteration in sterol composition of known sterol biosynthesis mutants (CITATIONet al, 2008) and revealed KNOLLE mis-localization at the lateral PM in 43% of late cytokinetic cells. To elucidate the genetic relationship between KNOLLE and CPI1, we generated cpi1-1/+;knolleX37-2/+ heterozygous plants. These self-pollinated plants produced no seedling progeny (0/951) that deviated from the wild-type, cpi1-1 or knolleX37-2 phenotypes. An enhancement of the knolle phenotype resulting in early embryonic lethality, as earlier reported for the knolle;keule double mutant (CITATIONet al, 2000), was not observed. Instead, molecular genotyping of seedlings displaying the knolleX37-2 developmental phenotype identified 31% of the plants as cpi1-1;knolleX37-2 double mutants (13/42) (CITATION), indicating that knolle was epistatic to cpi1 and suggesting that KNOLLE and CPI1 act in a common pathway. We subsequently investigated co-localization of KNOLLE and sterols in cytokinetic cells, using filipin III as a 3β-hydroxysterol-specific probe in fluorescence co-labelling studies with KNOLLE antibodies and fluorescent-protein markers for the endomembrane system (CITATIONet al, 2003). KNOLLE and sterols co-localized at the cell plate from the earliest stages of cell-plate formation until the end of cytokinesis, but co-labelling was also observed at additional endomembrane compartments (CITATION; CITATION). We quantified co-localization of the geometrical centres of compartments labelled in two different channels, revealing the highest degree of co-localization for sterol and KNOLLE-labelled compartments (CITATION), when compared with all other markers examined (CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, strong co-localization was also observed between filipin–sterol label and the early endosomal (EE)/trans-Golgi network (TGN) markers YFP-RAB-A2a (CITATION) and ADP-RIBOSYLATION FACTOR1 (ARF1)-GFP (CITATION). Filipin–sterol label showed less co-localization with the EE/TGN-marker VHA-a1-GFP (CITATION; CITATION), the trans-Golgi-marker N-ST-YFP (CITATION; CITATION) and the medial-Golgi-marker NAG1-EGFP (CITATION; CITATION), whereas an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker did not display significant co-localization (CITATION; CITATION; CITATIONet al, 2003). Analyses of the pre-vacuolar compartment markers RAB-F1-GFP and GFP-RAB-F2b (also known as Ara6-GFP and GFP-Ara7; CITATIONet al, 2001) confirmed that sterols co-label with these Rab5-type GTPases (CITATION; CITATION), but quantitative analysis revealed a higher degree of co-localization between sterols and KNOLLE as well as other EE/TGN compartment markers (CITATION). We next observed filipin–sterol-labelled structures by transmission electron microscopic (TEM) analyses, because filipin–sterol complexes induce specific 20–30 nm membrane deformations on sterol-enriched membranes, which can be visualized in diverse eukaryotic cells (CITATIONet al, 1981; CITATION; CITATIONet al, 2003). We had earlier described filipin–sterol complexes at the PM of Arabidopsis root epidermal cells (CITATIONet al, 2003). Analyses of cytokinetic root cells revealed clear 20–30 nm deformations at unfused cell-plate membranes (CITATION) and fully fused cell plates in the plane of cell division (CITATION). In comparison, membranes of control cells, which did not contain filipin in the fixative did not display deformations (CITATION). Strikingly, the TGNs of filipin-labelled samples revealed strong 20–30 nm deformations starting from the trans-most Golgi cisternae (CITATION), compared with control cells that displayed the expected smooth morphology of TGN vesicles and unaffected trans-most Golgi cisternae (CITATION). In contrast, filipin treatment did neither affect the membranes of the cis- and medial-Golgi cisternae (CITATION), nor ER and nuclear envelope membranes (CITATION), whereas multivesicular bodies (MVBs) displayed clear deformations of their outer membranes (CITATION), when compared with the smooth membrane of MVBs in non-treated samples (CITATION). These observations corroborated the results obtained from filipin–sterol fluorescence microscopy, showing a stronger accumulation of filipin–sterol complexes at the TGN, trans-Golgi and MVBs compared with the medial- and cis-Golgi cisternae as well as the ER. These results showed remarkable similarities to the heterogenous distribution of sterols over the cisternae of the Golgi apparatus (CITATIONet al, 1981) and the enrichment of sterols in the endocytic pathway in mammalian cells (CITATIONet al, 2003). Hence, our findings suggest a graded accumulation of sterols throughout the plant endomembrane system, revealing a high degree of co-localization of sterols and KNOLLE at the TGN/EE, the cell plate and in the plane of cell division. The TGN in yeast cells has been indicated to have the capacity to sort sterols and sphingolipids together with specific protein cargo on its way to the PM (CITATIONet al, 2009). Owing to the co-localization of sterols and KNOLLE at TGN and cell-plate membranes, we investigated a potential enrichment of KNOLLE in detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) thought to contain sterol and sphingolipid-enriched microdomains, sometimes referred to as ‘lipid rafts' or ‘membrane rafts' (CITATION; CITATIONet al, 2004; CITATIONet al, 2005; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Membrane rafts contribute to lateral compartmentalization of membranes (CITATION; CITATION), but their in vivo existence and in vivo function in plant membranes remain poorly addressed (CITATION; CITATION). We isolated the total membrane (TM) fraction from an Arabidopsis cell suspension culture, subjected it to DRM extraction, using different ratios of the detergent Triton-X-100 versus TM protein, and isolated the DRM fraction by sucrose-density-gradient centrifugation (CITATIONet al, 2005). Subsequently, we analysed the protein content by probing western blots with antibodies directed against DRM-enriched PM-H+-ATPase and the DRM-depleted ER chaperone BiP (CITATIONet al, 2004; CITATIONet al, 2005). In addition, we generated an antiserum that specifically detected the integral membrane protein SMT1, which co-localized with ER markers in immunofluorescence co-labelling studies (CITATION). In contrast to PM-H+-ATPase, but similar to BiP and SMT1, KNOLLE was depleted from DRMs at the moderate detergent to protein ratio of 4, and slightly less depleted, when compared with SMT1 and BIP at the ratio of 8, but not enriched, when compared with the TM or mock-treated fraction (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, interference with KNOLLE localization in ‘lipid rafts' is unlikely to account for its lateral mis-localization at the PM observed on altered sterol composition. To address the possibility that sterol composition may affect KNOLLE mobility from the plane of cell division to lateral membranes, we analysed lateral mobility of KNOLLE by fluorescence-recovery-after-photo-bleaching (FRAP) experiments. To this end, we used seedlings that expressed a functional GFP-KNOLLE protein, which rescues the knolle mutant phenotype (CITATIONet al, 2007). On photo-bleaching of GFP-KNOLLE within a 2 μm membrane region in the plane of cell division, FRAP occurred in this area (CITATION). Recovery was slightly faster than in roots incubated with energy inhibitors (sodium azide and 2-deoxy-D-glucose) (CITATION), which abolishes energy-dependent traffic and allows assessing the contribution of diffusion to lateral mobility (CITATIONet al, 2008). Similarly, when the membranes in the plane of cell division were bleached completely in roots incubated with the protein biosynthesis inhibitor CHX or energy inhibitors and CHX, recovery was slower in energy inhibitor-treated cells (CITATION). We infer that both membrane trafficking and lateral diffusion contribute to fluorescence recovery of GFP-KNOLLE in the plane of cell division, because energy-inhibitor-treated roots displayed significantly reduced but still substantial recovery (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast to native KNOLLE, GFP-KNOLLE is additionally found at the PM just after cytokinesis (CITATION) (CITATIONet al, 2007). We exploited this property to investigate potential mobility of GFP-KNOLLE from the plane of cell division to lateral membranes. We bleached GFP-KNOLLE fluorescence from newly formed daughter cells at the end of cytokinesis, except for the fluorescence in the plane of cell division (CITATION). Subsequently, we monitored FRAP at the PM and fluorescence-loss-in-photo-bleaching (FLIP) in the plane of cell division (CITATION). These experiments were performed on roots pre-treated with CHX (CITATION) to monitor lateral relocation of GFP-KNOLLE in the absence of protein biosynthesis. We also examined the effects of pre-treatment with CHX and energy inhibitors to assess GFP-KNOLLE lateral diffusion (CITATION). On both treatments, FRAP started from the sites in which the cell-plate membrane had contacted the PM and fluorescence progressively spread over the lateral membranes, until it had recovered over the total PM (CITATION). FRAP at the PM and FLIP in the plane of cell division closely complemented each other, both in cells treated with CHX or CHX and energy inhibitors (CITATION), strongly suggesting that GFP-KNOLLE relocated from the plane of cell division by lateral diffusion. We did not observe a difference between FLIP or FRAP of GFP-KNOLLE in wild type and in cpi1-1 mutant cells treated with CHX and energy inhibitors (CITATION). Similarly, FLIP and FRAP kinetics monitoring lateral diffusion did not obviously differ between wild-type and cpi1-1 mutant cells in which fluorescence had been bleached at the membranes in the plane of cell division (CITATION). Therefore, altered sterol composition is unlikely to directly affect the rate of GFP-KNOLLE lateral diffusion when membrane trafficking is blocked. Moreover, we did not observe a significant difference between the FRAP kinetics of wild-type and cpi1-1 mutant cells in which GFP-KNOLLE fluorescence had been bleached completely (CITATION), indicating that secretory trafficking of GFP-KNOLLE was not substantially affected in the mutant. Taken together, our findings show that GFP-KNOLLE can move from the plane of cell division to the PM and vice versa by lateral diffusion, which does not per se appear to be affected in the cpi1-1 mutant. Enhanced lateral diffusion of GFP-KNOLLE may potentially be difficult to detect in the cpi1-1 mutant, because functional GFP-KNOLLE, unlike the native endogenous KNOLLE protein, already displays some PM localization in the wild type. We, therefore, compared lateral diffusion of GFP-KNOLLE and additional molecules, the small styryl dye FM4-64, the small integral PM protein EGFP-LTI6a and the larger functional PIN2-EGFP protein into a 4 μm region at the lateral membrane of late cytokinetic cells. By taking this approach, we covered a large range of lateral diffusion rates displayed by these molecules (CITATION). However, none of them displayed obviously faster lateral diffusion in the cpi1-1 mutant, when compared with the wild type (CITATION), suggesting that lateral diffusion of diverse molecules is not per se enhanced in the cpi1-1 mutant background. To explore whether native, endogenous KNOLLE can diffuse laterally, we examined its localization in roots treated with CHX or CHX and energy inhibitors. In contrast to cells of untreated and CHX-treated roots (CITATION), we observed KNOLLE lateral mis-localization in cells of CHX plus energy-inhibitor-treated roots (CITATION). KNOLLE lateral localization appeared to be particularly sensitive to energy inhibition, when compared with PIN2 and DRP1A-GFP, which did not laterally relocate within the same time (CITATION), whereas YFP-RAB-A2a fluorescence in the cell division plane rapidly decreased after application of energy inhibitors (CITATION), consistent with the view that this small Rab GTPase associates with the membrane in its GTP-bound form. Our results suggest that native KNOLLE can diffuse toward lateral membranes, which normally appears to be compensated for by an energy-dependent mechanism such as endocytic trafficking. The endocytic tracer FM4-64 rapidly co-labels with GFP-KNOLLE in the developing cell plate (CITATIONet al, 2007). Shortly after application, FM4-64 also co-localized with GFP-KNOLLE in small, punctuate structures in CHX-pre-treated cells whose cell plates had just fused with the PM (CITATION). These endosomes displayed reactivity to the endocytic recycling inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA; CITATIONet al, 2001; CITATIONet al, 2003; CITATIONet al, 2003) (CITATION) that, 60 min after its application, induced co-accumulation of GFP-KNOLLE and FM4-64 in larger ‘BFA compartments' (CITATION). We subsequently analysed the behaviour of native KNOLLE in CHX and BFA-treated cells. After 60 min of treatment, KNOLLE immunofluorescence was reduced at the cell division plane, but accumulated in BFA compartments in both the wild type and the cpi1-1 mutant during late cytokinesis (CITATION). This was quantitatively reflected in a strongly decreased ratio of relative KNOLLE fluorescence at the cell division plane to label found in intracellular compartments after 60 min of BFA treatment (CITATION). In comparison with wild type (CITATION), more KNOLLE label was retained in the plane of cell division in the cpi1-1 mutant 60 min after BFA application (CITATION), which was reflected in a higher fluorescence intensity ratio in the cpi1-1 mutant when compared with wild type (CITATION). Together with the FM4-64 and PIN2 internalization defects observed in the cpi1-1 mutant (CITATIONet al, 2008), these findings suggest that correct membrane sterol composition is required for KNOLLE endocytosis at the end of cytokinesis. We next examined the association of sterols with compartments of the endocytic pathway, including KNOLLE-positive structures, in the cpi1-1 mutant. Quantitative co-localization analyses (CITATION) revealed a lower percentage of KNOLLE-positive endomembrane structures co-localizing with filipin–sterol fluorescence in cpi1-1 (CITATION) when compared with wild type (CITATION). Similarly, in the cpi1-1 mutant, reduced co-localization with filipin–sterol fluorescence was observed for ARF1-GFP (CITATION) and YFP-RAB-A2a-positive TGN/EE compartments (CITATION) as well as RAB-F1-GFP (CITATION) and GFP-RAB-F2b positive later endosomal compartments (CITATION). However, the total number of filipin–sterol-labelled structures in cpi1-1 mutant cells was not reduced when compared with the wild type (data not shown), showing that this result was not because of a lower-labelling efficiency in the mutant background. Consistent with this view, the percentage of NAG1-EGFP-labelled Golgi stacks co-labelling with filipin–sterol fluorescence was increased in the cpi1-1 mutant when compared with the wild type (CITATION), corroborating biochemical studies reporting accumulation of sterols in the Golgi-containing membrane fraction on pharmacological interference with cyclopropylsterol isomerization (CITATIONet al, 2007). Hence, the cpi1-1 mutation reduced sterol accumulation within the population of KNOLLE-positive, early endocytic/TGN and later endocytic/MVB compartments, further suggesting a defect in the endocytic pathway of this mutant. To address whether altered endocytosis causes lateral mis-localization of KNOLLE, we examined its subcellular distribution after interference with ARF1 function by a dominant-negative approach, earlier reported to affect internalization of the endocytic tracer FM4-64 (CITATION). To this end, we analysed KNOLLE localization in plants expressing a heat-shock-induced dominant-negative arf1T31N-CFP mutant version. In contrast to roots expressing wild-type ARF1-GFP under control of its own promoter or a heat-shock promoter (CITATION), arf1T31N-CFP expression caused lateral mis-localization of KNOLLE during late cytokinesis (CITATION). As, similar to ARF1, we had observed sterol co-localization with the EE/recycling endosomal Rab11-like RAB-A2a GTPase, as well as the RAB-F1 and RAB-F2b GTPases located at later endosomal compartments, we wondered as to whether interference with RAB-A2a or RAB-F function would affect KNOLLE and sterol localization. We, therefore, analysed the vps9a-2 mutant, defective in the main RAB-F guanine-nucleotide exchange factor (CITATIONet al, 2007) as well as plants expressing a rab-A2aN125I dominant-negative mutant version for KNOLLE and sterol accumulation. In contrast to arf1T31N-CFP roots, KNOLLE accumulation at the PM was neither observed in the roots expressing rab-A2aN125I (CITATION) nor in vps9a-2 mutant roots (CITATION). Strikingly, however, both rab-A2aN125I expressing and vps9a-2 mutant plants co-accumulated sterols and KNOLLE in endomembrane compartments (CITATION), suggesting that these mutations do not primarily cause a defect in KNOLLE internalization from the PM, but rather interfere with KNOLLE and sterol trafficking at endosomal compartments. Taken together, interference with ARF1 caused defects in internalization of an endocytic tracer from the PM (CITATION) and lateral mis-localization of KNOLLE during late cytokinesis, further suggesting that defective internalization may result in a failure to limit KNOLLE lateral diffusion. To investigate whether clathrin-dependent endocytosis mediates KNOLLE internalization and restricts KNOLLE localization to the plane of cell division, we treated plants with tyrphostin A23 (TyrA23), an inhibitor of recruitment of endocytic cargo into the clathrin-mediated pathway (CITATIONet al, 2006; CITATIONet al, 2007). When compared with untreated cells (CITATION; CITATION), short-term TyrA23 treatment induced KNOLLE mis-localization at lateral membranes in late cytokinesis (CITATION; CITATION), which was not observed in cells treated with the inactive analogue TyrA51 (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, this TyrA23 effect was reversible after washout of the drug (CITATION). Consistent with the view that KNOLLE internalization is mediated by clathrin-dependent endocytosis, KNOLLE displayed substantial co-localization with CLATHRIN-LIGHT-CHAIN (CLC)-GFP during late cytokinesis (CITATION). We also addressed whether the dynamin-like protein DRP1A is required for KNOLLE localization, because drp1a mutants are defective in endocytosis and cytokinesis (CITATIONet al, 2008). When compared with the wild type (CITATION), KNOLLE displayed profound lateral mis-localization in drp1a mutants (CITATION), strongly suggesting that clathrin-dependent endocytosis mediated by DRP1A laterally restricts KNOLLE localization during late cytokinesis. The mis-localization of KNOLLE observed in both drp1a and cpi1-1 mutant cells during late cytokinesis prompted us to address the genetic relationship between DRP1A and CPI1. Analyses of the progeny from a self-pollinated drp1arsw9/drp1arsw9;cpi1-1/+ plant revealed that 22.6% of seedlings (31/137) displayed a synthetic seedling-lethal phenotype when compared with wild-type, drp1arsw9 and cpi1-1 seedlings (CITATION). Such a segregation ratio close to 25% would be expected for a drp1arsw9;cpi1-1 double mutant. Consistent with this notion, no phenotypically cpi1-1-looking seedlings were observed in the progeny of drp1arsw9/drp1arsw9;cpi1-1/+ (0/137). Instead, seedlings that displayed the seedling-lethal phenotype, which showed little variability (CITATION), and were subjected to molecular genotyping (see Materials and methods), proved to be drp1arsw9;cpi1-1 homozygous (21/21). This synergistic genetic interaction between DRP1A and CPI1 suggests that their action converges before or at the level of common targets such as endocytosis-dependent KNOLLE localization during late cytokinesis.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Landsberg erecta (Ler), Columbia-0 (Col-0), Wassilewskija (WS) and the following mutants were used: cpi1-1 and cpi1-1/+;pPIN2:PIN2-EGFP (CITATIONet al, 2008), knolleX37-2 (CITATIONet al, 1996), smt1cph-G213 (CITATIONet al, 2002), smt1orc (CITATIONet al, 2003), drp1arsw9, drp1aSALK_069077 (CITATIONet al, 2008). The SALK_069077 insertion line into the DRP1A locus (CITATIONet al, 2003; CITATIONet al, 2008) was obtained through the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre with stock number N569077. The insertion was confirmed by PCR-based genotyping, using primers described in the CITATION. Molecular characterization of cpi1-1; knX37-2 and drp1arsw9;cpi1-1 double mutants was performed by PCR-based genotyping using primers described in the CITATION. The following transgenic fluorescent-protein marker lines in Col-0 background were used: pRAB-A2a:YFP-RAB-A2a (CITATIONet al, 2008), pARF1:ARF1-EGFP, pHSP:ARF1-EGFP, pHSP:arf1-T31N-CFP (all fusions of AtARFA1c, At2g47170) (CITATION), pARA6:ARA6-GFP/pRAB-F1:RAB-F1-GFP (CITATIONet al, 2007), p35S:GFP-RAB-F2b (CITATIONet al, 2006), pVHA-a1:VHA-a1-GFP (CITATIONet al, 2006), p35S:N-ST-YFP and p35S:NAG1-EGFP (CITATIONet al, 2003). The pKNOLLE:GFP-KNOLLE was in a Ler/Niederzens (Ler/Nd) background (CITATIONet al, 2007); pDRP1A:DRP1A-mGFP5 (CITATIONet al, 2003) and p35S:ER-mGFP5-HDEL from J. Haseloff (CITATIONet al, 2003) were in WS background. Plant growth conditions were as described (CITATIONet al, 2008). Analyses were carried out on 5-day-old seedlings. Seedlings from heat-shock-inducible lines (CITATION) were grown on agar plates for 5 days, transferred to 37°C for 90 min and placed back to 25°C for a recovery time of 4 h before analysis. For inhibitor experiments, seedlings were treated in liquid medium (LM) containing 1 × Murashige and Skoog, 1% sucrose, 2.5 mM morpholinoethanesulfonic acid (Sigma) at pH 5.8. BFA (Sigma) dissolved in DMSO was used at 25 μM for 2 h, or 50 μM for 1 h. TyrA23 and TyrA51 (Sigma) dissolved in DMSO were used at 50 μM for 1 h. TyrA23 (50 μM, 1 h) wash-out experiments were performed by washing with LM containing DMSO at equal concentration to the inhibitor-treated samples. CHX was added from a 50 mM aqueous stock to a final concentration of 50 μM. Treatment of seedlings with 0.02% sodium azide and 50 mM 2-deoxy-D-glucose was as described (CITATIONet al, 2008). The fen (PESTANAL, Sigma) was dissolved at 200 mg/ml in DMSO. For fen treatment, seedlings were grown on agar plates consisting of the above medium containing 0.8% plant agar (Duchefa) and 200 μg/ml fen for 5 days. Control plates contained an equal amount of 0.1% DMSO solvent. Whole-mount immunolabelling as well as fluorescence detection by confocal laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM), using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS (Leica) spectral CLSM system mounted on an LEICA DM IRE2 inverted microscope were performed as described (CITATIONet al, 2008). Antibodies dilutions were rabbit anti-KNOLLE, 1:4000 (CITATIONet al, 1997); Cy5-coupled, donkey anti-rabbit IgG, 1:300 (Jackson ImmunoResearch). FM4-64 staining in the GFP-KNOLLE background was performed by incubating seedlings in LM in the presence of 25 μM of FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) (from a 10 mM stock in DMSO) for 5 min on ice. This was followed by two washes with LM on ice, mounting on coverslips in LM medium containing inhibitors as specified and subsequent observation by CLSM. Laser excitation lines for the different fluorophores were 364 nm for filipin–sterol, 405 nm for DAPI, 458, 488, 514 nm for CFP, GFP and YFP fluorescence, respectively, 561 nm for FM4-64 and 633 nm for Cy5 fluorescence. Fluorescence emission was detected at 400–484 nm for filipin–sterol, 410–484 nm for DAPI, 505–600 nm for CFP, 492–557 nm for GFP, 518–557 nm for YFP, 600–700 nm for FM4-64 and 637-750 nm for Cy5 fluorescence. In multi-labelling studies, detection was in sequential line-scanning mode with a line average of 8. An oil-corrected 63 × objective, NA=1.4 (HCX PL APO 63.0 × 1.40 OI BD UV, Leica) was used in immuno- and filipin–sterol-labelling studies. A water-corrected 63 × objective, NA=1.2 (HCX PL APO 63.0 × 1.20 W BD UV, Leica) was used for FM4-64 detection. Filipin–sterol staining of roots and fluorescence detection was as described (CITATIONet al, 2003; CITATIONet al, 2008). Pictures were overlaid in Adobe Photoshop CS2 and assembled in Adobe Illustrator CS2 (Adobe). For filipin–sterol and anti-KNOLLE co-labelling, a two-step filipin-staining procedure (CITATIONet al, 2003) was used with minor modifications. After filipin labelling, root tips were bisected and allowed to dry on poly-L-lysine slides (VWR international). Subsequently, the following minor modifications were introduced to optimize for KNOLLE-antibody labelling: 2% driselase was applied for 45 min rather than 30 min, and, during subsequent membrane permeabilization, DMSO was replaced by filipin III (Sigma) dissolved in DMSO at 1 mg/ml (from a stock solution of 10 mg/ml) and IGEPAL (Sigma) included at 3% (v/v). FLIP and FRAP analyses were performed after earlier established protocols (CITATIONet al, 2003; CITATIONet al, 2008), using the Leica CLSM described above and Leica TCS FRAP software. For a detailed description, see CITATION. DRM extraction was performed as described (CITATIONet al, 2005). In brief, 200 ml of A. thaliana root-cell suspension culture (Col-0) were grown for 3 days under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle at 25°C. Cultures were harvested by centrifugation at 1600 g for 10 min, resuspended in two volumes of homogenization buffer and TM collected as described (CITATIONet al, 2005). Protein quantification was performed using a Bicinchoninic acid (BCA) protein assay kit (Termo Scientific). A total of 2.5 mg of TM protein were incubated with 0 (ratio 0), 10 mg (ratio 4) or 20 mg (ratio 8) of Triton-X-100 for 35 min on ice under agitation at 100 r.p.m. The final volume at different ratios was kept constant so that the percentage of Triton-X-100 did not exceed 3% at ratio 8. After sucrose-step-gradient centrifugation, DRMs were collected as described (CITATIONet al, 2005). DRM-protein concentration was determined using a BCA kit. Equal amounts of protein from different fractions or extractions were separated by SDS–PAGE and subjected to western blotting. The following antibodies and dilutions were used: rabbit anti-KNOLLE, 1:4000 (CITATIONet al, 1997); mouse monoclonal anti-Hsc70 antibody, plant ER BiP, 1:1000 (Nordic Biosite AB); mouse monoclonal, anti-PM-H+-ATPase, clone 46E5B11D5, 1:1000 (CITATIONet al, 2001); rabbit anti-SMT1, 1:50 (see CITATION); goat anti-mouse IgG-HRP conjugate (1:3000, Bio-Rad); ECL donkey anti-rabbit IgG-HRP-linked whole Ab, 1:8000 (Amersham). An ECL western-blotting detection reagent kit (Amersham) was used for detection. Quantitative fluorescence co-localization analyses was performed as described earlier (CITATIONet al, 2006) and electron microscopy of filipin–sterol complex localization was performed essentially as described (CITATIONet al, 2003) with minor modifications, as explained in the CITATION section.
