!~ABS~! The eukaryotic SIN3 protein is the central component of the evolutionarily conserved multisubunit SIN3 complex that has roles in regulating gene expression and genome stability. Here we characterise the structure of the SIN3 protein in higher plants through the analysis of SNL1 (SIN3-LIKE1), SNL2, SNL3, SNL4, SNL5 and SNL6, a family of six SIN3 homologues in Arabidopsis thaliana. In an Arabidopsis-protoplast β-glucuronidase reporter gene assay, as well as in a heterologous yeast repression assay, full-length SNL1 was shown to repress transcription in a histone-deacetylase-dependent manner, demonstrating the conserved nature of SIN3 function. Yeast two-hybrid screening identified a number of DNA binding proteins each containing a single Myb domain that included the Arabidopsis ALWAYS EARLY proteins AtALY2 and AtALY3, and two telomere binding proteins AtTBP1 and AtTRP2/TRFL1 as SNL1 partners, suggesting potential functions for SNL1 in development and telomere maintenance. The interaction with telomere-binding protein 1 was found to be mediated through the well-defined paired amphipathic helix domain PAH2. In contrast, the AtALY2 interaction was mediated through the PAH3 domain of SNL1, which is structurally distinct from PAH1 and PAH2, suggesting that evolution of this domain to a more novel structural motif has occurred. These findings support a diverse role of SNL1 in the regulation of transcription and genome stability.
!~RES~! Interrogation of the Arabidopsis genome database returned six predicted peptide sequences homologous to the yeast SIN3 corepressor. These were named SIN3-LIKE (SNL) 1 to 6 in accordance with TAIR guidelines, which we propose as the nomenclature for SIN3 in Arabidopsis. These sequences were aligned using ClustalX (CITATION and CITATION). The resultant phylogenetic tree placed the SNL peptide sequences into three distinct groups containing SNL1 ( AT3G01320 ) and SNL2 ( AT5G15020 ), SNL3 ( AT1G24190 ) and SNL4 ( AT1G70060 ), SNL5 ( AT1G59890 ) and SNL6 ( AT1G10450 ). To examine the relationship between SNLs and SIN3s encoded for by other eukaryotic genomes, an exhaustive phylogenetic analysis of peptide sequences was performed. Using a number of genomic databases, we identified and aligned approximately 50 unique SIN3 peptide sequences (CITATION). In this extensive analysis, SIN3 homologues fell into a number of expected clades. Yeasts and fungi fell largely into a distinct clade, suggesting considerable divergence from higher eukaryotes. Metazoa SIN3 sequences were placed in the same clade, with all SIN3A and SIN3B sequences grouping separately. Mammalian SIN3A sequences grouped together with Xenopus (frog) and Tetraodon nigroviridis (puffer fish) sequences, whereas on the adjacent branch of this clade with mammalian SIN3B were Danio rario (zebra fish) and Strongylocentrotus purpuratus (sea urchin) sequences. Insect sequences formed a separate group that diverged from the animal clade at an early stage. Plant sequences formed a distinct group with representative sequences from Oryza sativa (rice), Zea mays (maize) and Marchantia polymorpha (a liverwort). Interestingly, only two copies of SIN3 were identified in maize, which corresponded to the SNL1/2 group and the SNL3/4 group in Arabidopsis. Analysis of the six SNL peptide sequences using Clustal-X and the Pfam databaseCITATION † http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/ revealed that all contain PAH domains and HIDs; however, SNL 5 and 6 contained only PAH domains 1 and 2 (CITATION and CITATION). Both PAH and HID domains have been shown to be critical for SIN3 function in all other organisms in which SIN3 has been functionally characterised. In a previous study of yeast SIN3 and two mouse SIN3 homologues (mSIN3A/B), it was found that the regions of highest similarity were centred around the PAH domains.CITATION11 Structural modelling of the PAH2 domains of SNL1, SNL2 and SNL5 was carried out based on sequence identity of approximately 46% with the resolved crystal structures of PAH domains deposited in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) (2F05_A, 1PD7_A, 1S5R_B, 1G1E_B, 1E91_A, 1S5Q_B). The conservation of amino acid residues on the inner surface of PAH2 domains suggests that the function of this domain is highly conserved and that this hydrophobic pocket created by the α-helix bundle structure is likely to act as the primary interaction surface for protein–protein interactions.CITATION12 In general, there is a particularly high level of conservation on the inner surface of the longer α1 and α2 helices. These two helices form a deep hydrophobic pocket that has been found to be the primary interaction surface between the PAH2 domain and MAD1.CITATION12 In this work, discrete differences are seen between helix 4 of the PAH2 domains of SNL1 and SNL2 when compared with, for example, SNL5 (CITATION , basic residues, blue; acidic residues, red). The PAH2 structures of SNL1 and SNL2 are very similar in terms of distribution and identity of charged residues. R201 (SNL1) and R195 (SNL2) project into the interhelical binding groove. While the tertiary structure is generally similar, there is more variation in the location of charged residues in SNL5, where the projecting basic residue is a histidine (H188). In SNL5, there is an additional basic residue (R194) in the loop region immediately following helix 4, whereas there is no basic residue in the equivalent regions of PAH2 in SNL1 and SNL2. Such differences are likely to play an important role in interactions between individual SNL family members and DNA binding proteins. The expression of each SNL gene was determined using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) of mRNA extracted from rosette leaves and was supported by EST and genome-wide microarray expression dataCITATION ‡ http://Arabidopsis.org/index.jsp demonstrating that none of the six SNL family members were pseudogenes (CITATIONa). Comparative analysis of qRT-PCR data with ATH1 microarray data revealed similar expression levels for each of the SNL genes and suggests that they are all likely to encode functional proteins; however, specific SNL protein antibodies are not yet available to evaluate protein expression. A full-length cDNA clone was obtained for SNL1 and verified by DNA sequencing before being used in subsequent experiments. The expression pattern and subcellular localisation of full-length SNL1 was determined using an SNL1-CFP translational fusion protein. Tobacco leaf cells were infiltrated with Argobacterium harbouring SNL1-CFP, and transient expression was monitored 48 h after infiltration (CITATIONb, top panel, green). Fluorescent confocal microscopy image analysis revealed that SNL1-CFP protein was expressed and that it colocalised specifically with nuclei, which were detected visually without staining. No colocalisation was observed in autofluorescing chloroplasts (CITATIONb, top panel, blue) demonstrating the organelle-specific localisation of SNL1. Endoplasmic reticulum targeted yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (CITATIONb, bottom panel) was also included as a control for the infiltration and to verify the specificity of SNL1 nuclear targeting.CITATION13 A Prefile analysis (ExPASy, SwissPROT) revealed two putative bipartite nuclear localization signals, the first at positions 275–289 (RRGRD) and the second at positions 1346–1363 (RNKVRV), that could account for the nuclear targeting of the SNL1-CFP fusion protein, as vector and CFP sequences were devoid of any nuclear localization signal. The high degree of sequence conservation, particularly in the HID domain, suggested that SNL1 would act as a repressor of transcription. Using a transient Arabidopsis reporter gene assay that employs a reporter plasmid encoding the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene downstream of a minimal tCUP promoter and 4 GAL4 binding sites,CITATION14,15 we tested the repression function of a constitutively expressed full-length SNL1 fused to the DNA binding domain of the GAL4 protein (GAL4-SNL1). Reporter and effecter plasmids were cotransfected into Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. When recruited to the reporter plasmid, the GAL4-SNL1 fusion reduced GUS reporter gene expression by 63% (CITATIONa), demonstrating the ability of SNL1 to directly repress transcription when artificially tethered to a test promoter. The presence of the HID in all SNL peptide sequences suggested that the repression function of SNL1 was likely to occur through an HDAC-dependent mechanism. Therefore, repression assays were repeated in the presence of the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA). The effect of TSA was to completely abolish the repression activity of SNL1 (CITATIONa), demonstrating the requirement for HDAC activity in transcription repression by SNL1. Similarly, in a heterologous yeast repression assay system, SNL1 demonstrated a requirement for the HDAC RPD3, the specific HDAC associated with SIN3 function in S. cerevisiae. Full-length SNL1 was fused to the LEXA DNA binding domain to create a constitutively expressed LEXA-SNL1 fusion analogous to the plant GAL4-SNL1 fusion clone. LEXA-SNL1 was co-transformed into a wild-type yeast strain (FT5) together with β-galactosidase (LacZ) reporter plasmids with (pJK1621) or without (pLG312ΔS) four LEXA operator sites located upstream of the CYC1UAS::CYC1TATA promoter.CITATION16 When SNL1 was directly recruited to the test promoter via LEXA (LEXA-SNL1), LacZ reporter gene expression was reduced by 72% compared to the LEXA-only control (CITATIONb), demonstrating that SNL1 has repressor activity in this heterologous system and supporting the notion that it functions through a highly conserved repression mechanism. In the absence of RPD3 (FT5Δrpd3), SNL1 was unable to fully repress transcription when recruited directly to a test promoter. LacZ reporter gene expression was reduced by only 37% compared to that of the control (CITATIONb), indicating that SNL1 was able to utilise a heterologous HDAC protein to effect repression function. It is possible that other HDACs may have partially compensated for the loss of RPD3, or that SNL1 may be able to repress transcription through other mechanism(s). Sin3 is a known component of multiprotein complexes that is recruited to the promoters of target genes by DNA binding proteins in order to exert function; however, no such protein partners have yet been reported in plants. To identify SNL1 partners, a yeast two-hybrid assay testing a total of 88 million interactions was undertaken using full-length SNL1 as bait. A total of 262 interacting partners encoding for 43 individual proteins (CITATION) were identified and given a confidence score,CITATION17 which has been shown to positively correlate with biologically significant interactions.CITATION18 Overlapping prey fragments derived from the same gene were clustered, and this conserved sequence was defined as the selected interacting domain (SID)CITATION17 (CITATION and CITATION). Interacting partners with known or predicted nonnuclear subcellular localisations were considered as false interactions, as SNL1 was shown to be localised to the nucleus in transient transfection assays. Analysis of the remaining interacting partners revealed 10 known or putative DNA binding proteins, including AtALY2, AtALY3,CITATION19 HSI2,CITATION20 TKI1,CITATION21 and TBP1 and AtTRP2/TRFL1CITATION22,23 that function in transcription repression/gene silencing processes, suggesting that like its homologues in other eukaryotic species, SNL1 is recruited to target genes through site-specific transcription factors (CITATION). AtALY2 and AtALY3CITATION19 are orthologues of the ALWAYS EARLY Drosophila (ALY) protein in Drosophila, LIN9 in Caenorhabditis elegans, hLIN9 in humans and the Drosophila Myb interacting protein 130 (MIP13)/Twilight (TWIT) family of proteins.CITATION19 Unlike other ALY proteins, which do not contain any known DNA binding motif or reported DNA binding activity, AtALY2 and AtALY3 each contain a single Myb domain that has been shown to bind DNA (CITATIONa), suggesting that the plant ALY orthologues have evolved intrinsic DNA-binding function, and could serve to recruit SNL1 directly to target genes. Further analysis of the aligned AtALY2 and AtALY3 SNL1 interacting regions revealed a region of strong homology with a predicted helical structure (AFDALQALAELS, AtALY2) as a potential SNL1 interaction domain (CITATIONb). AtTBP1 and AtTRP2/TRFL1 encode for two of the telomeric DNA binding proteins found in Arabidopsis, and both peptide sequences for these proteins again contain a single Myb DNA binding domainCITATION22,23 (CITATIONc). Further analysis of the aligned AtTBP1 and AtTRP2/TRFL1 SNL1 interacting regions revealed regions of strong homology, although no conserved helical domain was identified in the aligned SIDs (not shown). The identification of telomere-specific protein partners of SNL1 is consistent with the role played by SIN3 in maintaining genome stability in other organisms and, very excitingly, shows for the first time a direct interaction between a telomere-binding protein and a SIN3 protein. A second group of SNL1 interacting proteins identified in the yeast two-hybrid screen have known or predicted functions in protein stability. ASK2 (Arabidopsis SKP1-LIKE 2), a ubiquitin-protein ligase expressed in metaphase, telophase and during cytokinesis in male meiocytesCITATION24 that is required for early development in Arabidopsis,CITATION25 ARABIDILLO-1, which contains an F-Box and may therefore function in protein degradation,CITATION26 and the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase AtPUB14.CITATION27 Previously, the function of the SIN3 complex in regulating silencing at HMR, telomeric and rDNA loci in yeast has been shown to be dependent on the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Rad6;CITATION28 therefore, the association of SNL1 with these proteins is not unexpected. Having identified a group of single Myb-domain-containing DNA binding proteins in the yeast two-hybrid screen, we selected two members of this group of proteins to determine whether they demonstrated any interaction specificity with SNL1. Full-length LexA-tagged SNL1 and sequential C-terminal truncations of LexA-SNL1 terminating after PAH1, PAH2, PAH3, or HID were synthesised using a cell-free transcription-translation system (CITATIONa). These proteins were then incubated with [35S]methionine-labelled AtALY2 or TBP1 produced using the same cell-free transcription–translation system before samples were immunoprecipitated using an anti-LexA antibody, separated by PAGE, and analysed by phosphoimaging. This analysis revealed that distinct PAH domains were required for interaction with each of the Myb-domain proteins tested. Deletion of PAH2 from the C-terminal-truncated SNL1 protein resulted in loss of interaction with TBP1, indicating that, like many other reported SIN3–DNA binding factor interactions,CITATION1 PAH2 supports the interaction between SNL1 and TBP1 (CITATIONb and c). However, the region of TBP1 that was identified in our yeast two-hybrid screen (amino acids 18–296) does not contain the proposed PAH2 interaction consensus sequence identified in a murine system (A[A/V]X[V/A][L/V]),CITATION29 suggesting that a plant-specific motif supports this interaction. In contrast, deletion of PAH3 from the C-terminal of SNL1 resulted in loss of interaction with AtALY2 (CITATIONd and e), indicating that PAH3 is required for the interaction between SNL1 and AtALY2. Only a limited number of other proteins have been shown to interact with PAH3, and most of these experiments also included regions flanking the PAH3 domain.CITATION1 Structural modelling of the SNL1 PAH3 domain (CITATIONh), as with PAH1 and PAH2 domains, revealed a four-helix structure, although the first two helices are markedly shorter and the positions of the equivalent basic side chains of the key arginine residues (Arg222 and Arg249) are different relative to the binding pocket, suggesting that there may be binding interactions involving other arginine (Arg198) and lysine (Lys194) residues surrounding the pocket. The notably different distribution of charged residues compared to PAH1 and PAH2 domains supports the distinct binding capacity observed for AtALY2.
!~MM~! The ySIN3 peptide sequence (M36822) was obtained from the Saccharomyces Genome DatabaseCITATION § http://www.yeastgenome.org/ and used to search for Arabidopsis orthologues using BLASTP at the Munich Information Centre for Protein Sequences (MIPS) A. thaliana Database (MAtDB)CITATION ‖ http://mips.gsf.de/proj/plant/jsf/athal/index.jsp . To identify other orthologous SIN3 peptide sequences, a BLASTP screen of both the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and MIPS databases was performed. Returned sequences were manually screened to remove duplication, resulting in 51 unique sequences. Peptide sequences were aligned using ClustalX 2.0.10. Within the Protein Gap Parameters, Residue-specific and hydrophilic Penalties were ‘on’, with Hydrophilic Residues being GPSNDQEKR. The Gap Separation Distance [0–100] was 4 with End Gap Separation ‘off’. Within the Alignment Parameters the Multiple Parameters were set to the following: Gap Opening [0–100] 10, Gap Extension [0–100] 0.2, Delay Divergent Sequences (%) 30, DNA Transition Weight [0–1] 0.5 and Use Negative Matrix ‘off’. The Gonnet Series Protein Weight Matrix was used. The tree and bootstrap values were then plotted using NJplot. Homology models were generated for the PAH2 domains of SNL1, SNL2 and SNL5 based on the resolved crystal structures of PAH domains deposited in the PDB (2F05_A, 1PD7_A, 1S5R_B, 1G1E_B, 1E91_A, 1S5Q_B).CITATION37 Structural modelling was carried out using a homology modelling pipeline built with the Biskit structural bioinformatics platform.CITATION38 Our pipeline workflow incorporates the NCBI tools platform,CITATION39 including the BLAST programCITATION40 for similarity searching of sequence databases. In this case, protein sequences corresponding to the PDB of protein structures were searched for homology with the SNL proteins in to identify putative structural homologues. T-COFFEECITATION41 was used for alignment of the test sequence with the template, followed by 10 iterations of the MODELLER programCITATION42 for homology modelling, and the DSSP algorithmCITATION43 for secondary-structure validation. The PAH2 domains, residues 131–210 of SNL1, 125–204 of SNL2 and 118–197 of SNL5 were modelled by 46% identity with the PAH crystal structure homologues, and the PAH3 domain of SNL1, residues 331–400, was modelled by 27.5% identity. The resultant homology models were validated by cross-reference to the secondary-structure predictions. Homology models were generated with 10 iterations of the MODELLER program. All plants were in Columbia-0 background and were grown in Aratrays (Betatech, Belgium) under constant conditions (20 °C, constant 2400-lx globe lighting). Rosette leaves were removed (stage 6.9) for DNA and RNA analysis. Total RNA was isolated (RNeasy Plant Mini system, with on-column DNase I digestion step; Qiagen) from 100 mg of rosette leaves. Random decamer primers were used to reverse-transcribe 1 μg of total RNA (RETROscript, Ambion). The cDNA was used as a template for analysing target gene expression (Absolute QPCR SYBR green, ABgene) using gene-specific primer pairs (Beacon Designer, Premier BioSoft) (see CITATION for primer sequences). ACTIN2 was used as an internal reference, and genomic DNA and RNA were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. Relative quantification of gene expression data was carried out using the threshold cycle (Ct) values for each sample. Serial dilutions of cDNA were used to trace a calibration curve, which was then used to quantify gene expression levels in each group of samples by plotting their respective Ct value in the curve. Expression levels were then calculated as fold enrichment compared to that of ACTIN2 and plotted. The SNL1 Arabidopsis (Columbia) root cDNA clone AV547444 in pBluescriptII SK− was obtained from Kazuza DNA Research Institute, Japan,CITATION44 and cloned into pJGCITATION31 following site-directed mutagenesis (SDM) to create an SmaI restriction site upstream of the SNL1 translation start (QuickChange XL SDM Kit, Stratagene). Primers used were forward, 5′-GTGGACAATCCCCGGGCCACGGCAGTGG-3′, and reverse, 5′-CCACTGCCGTGGCCCGGGGATTGTCCAC-3′. To verify SDM, the recovered plasmid was sequenced using M13 forward and reverse primers. An SmaI–SnaBI fragment containing SNL1 was excised from the AV547444 pBluescriptII SK-construct containing the engineered SmaI site and ligated into the SmaI and SnaBI restriction sites of pJG.CITATION31 pGAL4-SNL1 was recovered and sequenced (using the primer 5′-TCATCGGAAGAGAGTAG-3′) to ascertain the orientation of the SNL1 insert. Protoplast isolation, transfection, and GUS repression assays were performed as previously described.CITATION31 Briefly, protoplasts were prepared from Arabidopsis rosette leaves and transfected with 10 μg of each reporter–effecter plasmid combination using polyethylene glycol. Following overnight incubation, β-glucuronidase was extracted and activity was determined fluorometrically using 4-methylumbelliferyl glucuronide (MUG) substrate. Samples were normalised for total protein content and for background fluorescence using untransfected protoplasts. Fluorescence activity was measured at 365 nm (excitation)/460 nm (emission) using a PolarStar Galaxy fluorimeter (BMG Labtech, UK). For HDAC inhibition assays protoplasts were treated with 20 μm TSA (Sigma-Aldrich) and incubated for an additional 6 h before GUS activity was measured. Wild-type FT5 and FT5Δrpd3 yeast strainsCITATION45 were used in heterologous yeast repression assays. Two reporter plasmids were used that encode the β-galactosidase (LACZ) gene, with (pJK1621) or without (pLG312ΔS) four LEXA operator (binding) sites upstream of the CYC1UAS::CYC1TATA promoter sequence.CITATION45 The effecter plasmid (pAS64F2) encodes for the DNA binding protein LEXA in a low copy number yeast centromeric plasmid. SNL1 was excised from pBluescriptII SK− using the restriction enzymes AatII and SacII. pGEM7 (Promega) was digested using EcoRI. The 5′ overhang created by the EcoRI digestion was filled in using Klenow (NEB). The Klenow-treated pGEM7 was then digested with AatII. SNL1 was then ligated into pGEM7. Plasmid DNA was purified and sequenced to confirm the presence of SNL1. Full-length SNL1 was digested with AatII, then blunt-ended using mung bean nuclease (Promega) and subsequently digested with KpnI. This DNA fragment was cloned into pAS64F2 using SmaI and KpnI to give a LEXA-SNL1 translational fusion under the control of the high-level constitutive ADH1 promoter. Yeast were grown overnight in liquid media and transformed with the selected plasmids using a polyethylene glycol–lithium acetate method. The transformed yeast were then plated onto appropriate selective media. Individual transformants were grown overnight in liquid media to early log phase and assayed for β-galactosidase activity. Briefly β-galactosidase was extracted from yeast cells and incubated with o-nitrophenol-β-d-galactosidase (ONPG). Hydrolysis of ONPG to a yellow-coloured derivative, o-nitrophenol, was measured at 420 nm using a Beckman DU530 spectrophotometer. Values were normalised to OD600. Full-length cDNA for SNL1 was amplified by PCR from Col-0 inflorescence-derived cDNA using the primers 5′-ATGAAGCGGATAAGAGATGAT-3′ and 5′-AGCTGAGAAACCTATGGAACC-3′ with Pyrobest Taq polymerase (TaKaRa). attB1 and attB2 sites were introduced into the amplified SNL1 open reading frame (lacking its stop codon) by 20 cycles of nested PCR using chimeric oligonucleotides containing attB1 plus 5′ SNL1 and attB2 plus 3′ SNL1 sequences (Invitrogen), respectively, using Pyrobest Taq polymerase. Purified PCR product was cloned into pDONR Zeo (Invitrogen) using BP clonase, the SNL1 insert was sequenced, confirmed to lack any sequence errors and subsequently used to make a C-terminal CFP fusion in pEARLEYGATE 102 using LR clonase (Invitrogen). The SNL1-CFP junction was sequenced to confirm it was in frame, and the SNL1-CFP plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 by electroporation. ER-YFP has been previously described.CITATION13 Expanded leaves (fourth to sixth) of Nicotiana tabacum SR1 plants were infiltrated with an overnight culture of A. tumefaciens GV3101 containing different constructs.CITATION46 Bacterial cells were washed twice in infiltration buffer containing 10 μM acetosyringone (Aldrich) diluted to an OD600 of 0.03 or 0.1 in the same buffer, and infiltrated on the abaxial surface of leaves. Infiltrated plants were returned to the growth chamber at 20 °C and were used for microscopic analysis after 48 h. Sections (0.5 cm2) were cut from leaves, distal to the primary infiltration site, and sections were mounted in water and analysed for SNL1-CFP (or ER-YFP) expression by confocal microscopy on a Zeiss CLSM 510. The full-length coding sequence for SNL1 was PCR-amplified and cloned into pB66 as a C-terminal fusion to Gal4 DNA-binding domain (N-Gal4-SNL1-C). The construct was checked by sequencing the entire insert and used as a bait to screen a random-primed A. thaliana seedlings cDNA library cloned into pP6. pB66 and pP6 are derived from pAS2ΔΔCITATION47 and pGADGH plasmids, respectively. Eighty-eight million clones (8.8-fold the complexity of the library) were screened using a mating approach with Y187 (matα) and CG1945 (mata) yeast strains as previously described.CITATION47 A total of 262 His+ colonies were selected on a medium lacking tryptophan, leucine and histidine. The prey fragments of the positive clones were amplified by PCR and sequenced at their 5′ and 3′ junctions. The resulting sequences were used to identify the corresponding interacting proteins in the GenBank database (NCBI). A confidence score (predicted biological score) was attributed to each interaction as previously described.CITATION17 Full-length SNL1 was isolated from wild-type yeast (FT5) transformed with pAS-SNL1 as a LexA-hybrid protein as previously described.CITATION31 LexA-SNL1 deletion derivatives were produced from PCR templates using a Promega TNT T7 Quick for PCR in vitro transcription–translation system using template DNA amplified from pAS-SNL1 (see CITATION online for primer sequences). Total protein isolated from yeast or TNT reactions was incubated overnight at 4 °C with 15 μl of anti-LexA mouse monoclonal antibody [LexA (2-12), Santa Cruz Biotechnology] in immunoprecipitation buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT and complete protease inhibitors cocktail II (Calbiochem)]. Following incubation, 50 μl of activated protein G magnetic beads (Qiagen) was added to the extracts and incubated on ice for 2 h with vortexing at 15-min intervals before immobilised proteins were washed with immunoprecipitation buffer. Plasmids containing AtALY2CITATION19 and TBP1CITATION48 were used to direct coupled transcription–translation using T7 polymerase (TNT System, Promega). [35S]Methionine-labelled protein (10 μl) was incubated with 100 μl of bead-immobilised LexA-hybrid protein in 1 ml binding buffer [20 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8), 50 mM NaCl, 50 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.2% bovine serum albumin, 0.2 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT and complete protease inhibitors cocktail II (Calbiochem)] overnight at 4 °C. Following incubation the beads were washed extensively in binding buffer, eluted in SDS-PAGE gel loading buffer, and analysed by SDS-PAGE for detection of 35S-labeled proteins by phosphorimaging (Pharos FX Plus, Bio-Rad), and LexA-hybrid proteins by immunoblot with the antibody anti-LexA (dilution 1:200) and chemiluminescence detection (GE Healthcare).
