!~ABS~! In rice (Oryza sativa), brassinosteroids (BRs) induce cell elongation at the adaxial side of the lamina joint to promote leaf bending. We identified a rice mutant (ili1-D) showing an increased lamina inclination phenotype similar to that caused by BR treatment. The ili1-D mutant overexpresses an HLH protein homologous to Arabidopsis thaliana Paclobutrazol Resistance1 (PRE1) and the human Inhibitor of DNA binding proteins. Overexpression and RNA interference suppression of ILI1 increase and reduce, respectively, rice laminar inclination, confirming a positive role of ILI1 in leaf bending. ILI1 and PRE1 interact with basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein IBH1 (ILI1 binding bHLH), whose overexpression causes erect leaf in rice and dwarfism in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of ILI1 or PRE1 increases cell elongation and suppresses dwarf phenotypes caused by overexpression of IBH1 in Arabidopsis. Thus, ILI1 and PRE1 may inactivate inhibitory bHLH transcription factors through heterodimerization. BR increases the RNA levels of ILI1 and PRE1 but represses IBH1 through the transcription factor BZR1. The spatial and temporal expression patterns support roles of ILI1 in laminar joint bending and PRE1/At IBH1 in the transition from growth of young organs to growth arrest. These results demonstrate a conserved mechanism of BR regulation of plant development through a pair of antagonizing HLH/bHLH transcription factors that act downstream of BZR1 in Arabidopsis and rice.
!~RES~! One of the most sensitive BR responses in rice is the leaf inclination (CITATION). To find new components of the BR pathway in rice, we screened a large collection of T-DNA insertion rice lines (CITATION) and identified a mutant with increased leaf inclination (ili1-D) (Figures 1A and 1B ). Measurement of the leaf angles showed that most leaves of the wild type bend around 30° and those of the ili1-D mutant bend around 120° to 150° (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Close-up views by scanning election microscopy show increased growth of cells on the adaxial side of the lamina joint in ili1-D, similar to that of BR treated wild-type rice (Figure 1C). When treated with increasing concentrations of 24-epibrassinolide (eBL; an active form of BRs), lamina joint of ili1-D reached maximum bending (180°) at ∼10 nM eBL, whereas maximum leaf bending of wild-type rice requires about two magnitude higher concentration of eBL (1 μM) (Figure 1D). The coleoptile elongation of ili1-D also showed higher sensitivity to BR treatment than wild-type rice (Figure 1E). These observations suggest that the ili1-D mutant is hypersensitive to BR. Measurement of BR levels did not show significant difference in BR content between ili1-D and wild-type rice (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). These results suggest that ili1-D acts in a branch or downstream of the BR regulatory pathway. [[FIGURE]] Segregation analysis of the heterozygous population showed a 3:1 ratio of ili1-D mutants to wild type, indicating that ili1-D is a dominant mutant. A T-DNA flanking sequence was identified in ili1-D using thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR (CITATION). The BLASTn results showed that the T-DNA was inserted between LOC_Os04g54890 and LOC_Os04g54900 on chromosome 4 (Figure 2A ). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of Os04g54900 was dramatically increased in the ili1-D mutant plants, but the other flanking genes were not significantly affected (Figure 2B). Expression of Os04g54900 is preferentially expressed in the lamina joint section and is increased only in lamina joint in the ili1-D mutant (Figure 2C). [[FIGURE]] To test whether the high expression of Os04g54900 lead to enlarged leaf angle of the ili1-D mutant, we transformed wild-type rice with a construct of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter driving expression of the Os04g54900 cDNA. A total of 42 transgenic lines were generated, and about two-thirds of them showed no obvious phenotype. The other lines showed phenotypes that range from extremely distorted and retarded growth and infertility (seven plants; see Supplemental Figure 3 online) to semidwarf plants with increased lamina joint bending (approximately eight lines) (Figures 2D, 2F, and 2G). Furthermore, suppressing the expression of Os04g54900 in the ili1-D mutant using RNA interference (RNAi) restored wild-type erect leaves (Figures 2E to 2G). These results indicate that overexpression of Os04g54900 is responsible for the ili1-D phenotype, and we thus named the Os04g54900 gene ILI1 (for Increased Leaf Inclination1). Antisense suppression of ILI1 expression in wild-type background (ILI1-AS) caused an erect leaf phenotype, confirming an essential role of ILI1 in regulating lamina joint bending (Figures 2H to 2J). ILI1 encodes a 105–amino acid group-D bHLH transcription factor that is characterized by harboring only the HLH domain but lacking the basic region. Protein BLAST search showed that ILI1 has seven homologous genes in the rice genome and is homologous to members of the Arabidopsis PRE (Paclobutrazol resistance) family, tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) Style2.1, and mammalian Id protein (see Supplemental Figures 4 and 5 online). Arabidopsis PRE1 has been implicated in gibberellic acid (GA) responses, as overexpression of PRE1 rescues GA-deficient phenotypes and promotes seed germination and elongation of hypocotyls and petioles (CITATION). Tomato Style 2.1 has been shown to promote cell elongation in the style (CITATION). Our finding of the role of ILI1 in promoting elongation of lamina joint cells suggests a conserved role of this gene family in promoting plant cell elongation. Studies of human Id proteins showed that this type of HLH transcription factors act through interacting with other typical bHLH proteins (CITATION). To investigate the functional mechanism of ILI1, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen for interacting proteins using the full-length ILI1 protein as bait. From three million yeast transformants, we identified 10 clones that grew on the -Ade/-His selection medium. Three of these positive clones contain the same cDNA that encodes a typical bHLH transcription factor that we named IBH1 (for ILI1 Binding bHLH Protein1) (Figure 3A ). Sequence analysis of IBH1 showed that the Arabidopsis protein most similar to Os IBH1 is At2g43060 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). We named At2g43060 as At IBH1. Yeast two-hybrid experiments showed that both At IBH1 and Os IBH1interact with PRE1 in yeast, suggesting evolutionary conservation of the interaction (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction between ILI1 and IBH1, we performed a glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay using purified protein expressed from Escherichia coli. As shown in Figure 3B, GST-Os IBH1 can pull down maltose binding protein (MBP)-ILI1 but cannot pull down MBP alone, indicating that ILI1 interacts with IBH1 in vitro. To determine whether ILI1 interacts with IBH1 in vivo, we performed a coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assay. When ILI1-YFP and Os IBH1-Myc fusion proteins were transiently coexpressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf cells (Figure 3C), the IBH1-Myc fusion protein can be coimmunoprecipitated with ILI1-YFP. In vitro pull-down assay (Figure 3D) and Co-IP assay using transgenic Arabidopsis (Figure 3E) also confirmed that PRE1 binds to At IBH1 in vitro and in vivo. These results demonstrate conserved interactions between ILI1/PRE1 and IBH1 in rice and Arabidopsis. To study the function of IBH1 in plant development, we overexpressed IBH1 in transgenic rice. The 35S:Os IBH1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) transgenic plants showed erect leaves (Figure 4A ). The angles of leaf inclination were significantly reduced in the IBH1-overexpressing transgenic plants compared with the wild type (Figures 4B to 4D). The reduced leaf bending in both ILI1-AS and IBH1-OX plants was due to reduced cell elongation in the adaxial side of the lamina joint (Figures 4E and 4F). As such, IBH1 appears to have an opposite action on cell elongation and lamina bending than its interacting protein ILI1. [[FIGURE]] To further study the function of ILI1 and IBH1 and their Arabidopsis homologs, we overexpressed ILI1, PRE1, Os IBH1, and At IBH1 in transgenic Arabidopsis. The ILI1-overexpression (ILI1-OX) transgenic plants displayed elongated petioles and light-green and slightly narrow leaves (Figure 5A ), whereas the Os IBH1-OX transgenic plants exhibited shorter petioles and dark-green and round leaves (Figure 5B). The ILI1-OX plants showed increased hypocotyl length and increased BR sensitivity in root inhibition assay, whereas Os IBH1-OX plants showed reduced hypocotyl length and reduced BR sensitivity (Figures 5C and 5D). These results suggest that rice ILI1 and IBH1 can promote and inhibit BR responses in Arabidopsis as they do in rice. Consistent with such conserved roles of ILI1 and IBH1, the PRE1-OX plants displayed similar phenotypes as the ILI1-OX plants (Figure 5E), whereas At IBH1-OX plants showed similar dwarf phenotypes (Figure 5F) as the Os IBH1-OX plants. These results indicated that the function of ILI1/PRE1 and IBH1 is conserved in monocots and dicots, and ILI1/PRE1 promotes cell elongation, whereas IBH1 inhibits cell elongation. Overexpression of PRE1 suppressed the weak allele of bri1-5 (Figure 5G), whereas At IBH1-OX enhanced the dwarf phenotype of bri1-5 (Figure 5H), supporting a role of these interacting HLH/bHLH factors downstream of BRI1 in the BR pathway. [[FIGURE]] The opposite effects on cell elongation, physical interaction between IBH1 and ILI1/PRE1, suggest that ILI1/PRE1 might inhibit IBH1 in a manner similar to the inhibition of the E bHLH factors by Id in humans (CITATION). To address this possibility, we crossed the Os IBH1-OX transgenic Arabidopsis plants with ILI1-OX transgenic Arabidopsis plants and At IBH1-OX transgenic plants with PRE1-OX transgenic plants. As shown in Figure 6 , all F1 plants exhibited a long petiole phenotype similar to that of the ILI1-OX or PRE1-OX transgenic plants (Figures 6A and 6B). These results suggest that ILI1/PRE1 inhibits the activity of IBH1 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To understand the developmental context in which these HLH/bHLH pairs function, we analyzed their tissue-specific expression. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that rice ILI1 and IBH1 are coexpressed in rice seed, panicle, root, leaf blade, lamina joint, leaf sheath, and stem, while highest expression of ILI1 was observed in lamina joint and IBH1 in roots (Figure 6C). The quantitative RT-PCR analysis on Arabidopsis also showed overlapping expression patterns of PRE1 and IBH1 in various tissues (Figure 6D). Based on Arabidopsis microarray data displayed in the eFP browser, PRE1 is expressed at a high level in young and growing tissues, whereas IBH1 is expressed in mature organs where growth is arrested (Figure 6E; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). In particular, the expression level of PRE1 is high in the floral buds until right before the flower opens, with the highest level observed in petals of opening floral buds, the most rapidly growing organ. In open flowers, PRE1 level is low in the outer floral organs (sepals, petals, and stamens) that have stopped growing, but remains high in carpals, which start rapid growth upon fertilization. By contrast, IBH1 is not expressed in floral buds but is highly expressed in the growth-arrested outer floral organs of open flowers (Figure 6E). PRE1 is also expressed at a higher level than IBH1 in the meristem and at an early stage of seed development, whereas IBH1 is highly expressed in mature or senescing leaves and at later stages of seed development (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Such sequential and overlapping expression patterns of PRE1 and IBH1 are consistent with their positive and negative roles in cell growth and suggest that downregulation of PRE1 and upregulation of IBH1 plays a role in the transition from growth of young organs to cessation of growth in mature organs. To understand the functional mechanism of ILI1/PRE1 and IBH1 in BR response, we analyzed how BR regulates the expression of these genes. BR treatment of rice seedlings increased the ILI1 RNA level and repressed the expression of IBH1 (Figure 7A ). Similarly, BR treatment caused an increase of PRE1 expression but a decrease of IBH1 expression in Arabidopsis (Figure 7B). Expression of PRE1 is also activated by auxin and GA, two other hormones that promote cell elongation (Figure 7C), consistent with a role of PRE1 in cell responses to these hormones in Arabidopsis. Interestingly, auxin and GA did not significantly affect the expression of ILI1 (Figure 7D), consistent with weaker effects and independent pathways of these hormones on lamina joint inclination (CITATION). It is also possible that auxin and GA act through other homologs of ILI1 to promote cell elongation in their target tissues in rice. [[FIGURE]] Previous studies have shown that BR signaling primarily regulates the activity of the transcription factor BZR1. We further tested whether BZR1 directly regulates PRE1 and IBH1 in Arabidopsis and whether BZR1 regulates ILI1 and IBH1 in rice using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments. ChIP was performed using Os BZR1-GFP transgenic rice (CITATION) and BZR1-CFP transgenic Arabidopsis (CITATION) plants. The ChIP DNA was analyzed for ILI1 and Os IBH1 whole promoter (Figures 7E and 7F) and two different promoter regions of PRE1 and At IBH1 that were chosen based on the BZR1 ChIP microarray data (Figures 7G and 7H). Quantitative PCR analysis showed that the IBH1 promoter DNA was enriched by immunoprecipitation of BZR1-GFP in rice (Figure 7F), and IBH1 promoter was enriched by BZR1-CFP in Arabidopsis (Figures 7H and 7I). ILI1 and PRE1 were also significantly enriched, though to a lesser degree (Figures 7E, 7G, and 7I). These results demonstrate that BR directly represses IBH1 transcription and activates the expression of PRE1 and ILI1 through BZR1 direct binding in Arabidopsis and rice. Similar to BZR1, BES1 also binds strongly to the promoter of IBH1 but only weakly to PRE1 (Figure 7J). Together, our results demonstrate the conserved function of a pair of interacting HLH/bHLH factors in BR regulation of cell elongation in Arabidopsis and rice (Figure 7K).
!~MM~! Rice plants (Oryza sativa) were grown in the field or in the greenhouse at 30°C/25°C day/night cycles. For the analysis of BR induction in coleoptile elongation and root elongation, rice seeds were sterilized with 1% NaClO and grown in half-strength MS medium with the indicated concentration of eBL (Sigma-Aldrich) at 30°C under continuous light. Seedlings were examined 7 d after germination. Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia-0) and BR-related mutants were grown in a growth chamber at 24°C/22°C (day/night). For hypocotyl and root growth assays, seedlings were grown on vertical phytoagar plate containing half-strength MS medium with or without indicated concentration of BL under continuous light for 7 d. Germinated seeds with uniform coleoptile length were transplanted into soil and grown at 30°C for 7 d, and then the second lamina joint (0.5 cm long) was excised for imaging the adaxial surface. For BR treatment, 1 μL of ethanol containing 10 ng/μL eBL and 0.1% Triton 100 was spotted at the adaxial surface of the lamina joint 2 d before fixing tissues in formalin:glacial acetic acid:50% ethanol (2:1:17, v:v:v). After dehydration in a graded ethanol series, the sections were dried for 3 h (Hitachi critical point dryer, HCP-2; Hitachi Koki), surface-sprayed with gold powder, and examined under a scanning electron microscope (Hitachi S3000N). Shoots of the wild type and ili1-D were harvested after growth in a greenhouse for 2 months. About 30 g of fresh tissues was frozen in liquid nitrogen and then lyophilized. The BR content was analyzed by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Sterilized seeds were grown for 8 d in a dark chamber. Uniform seedlings were then sampled by excising ∼2-cm segments that contained the second-leaf lamina joint under dim light condition. These were floated on distilled water containing various concentrations of 24-eBL. After incubation in a dark chamber at 30°C for 72 h, the angle between the lamina and the sheath was measured (CITATION). The amino acid sequences were aligned using MUSCLE 3.6 with the default settings (CITATION) and then adjusted manually using GeneDoc (version 2.6.002) software (Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center; http://www.psc.edu/biomed/genedoc/). Using the MEGA software (version 3.1; http://www.megasoftware.net/index.html) (CITATION) and based on full-length protein sequences, midpoint-rooted neighbor-joining trees were constructed with the following parameters: Poisson correction, pairwise deletion, and bootstrap (1000 replicates; random seed). Total RNA was extracted from 2-week-old rice seedlings of the wide type, the ili1-D mutant, and transgenic rice or from 1-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings using the Trizaol RNA extraction kit (Invitrogen). The first-strand cDNAs were synthesized using AMV reverse transcriptase (Takara) and used as RT-PCR templates. Quantitative real-time PCR analyses were performed on a Mx3000P (Stratagene) using a SYBR green detection protocol according to the manufacturer's instructions. The RT-PCR was repeated at least three times for separately harvested samples. RT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The cDNA of ILI1 was amplified by PCR from a rice cDNA library and ligated into PSN1301 or 35S-LNY binary vectors for overexpression. The ILI1 RNAi and antisense plasmids were constructed according to the method described previously (CITATION). Full-length cDNAs of Os IBH1, PRE1, and At IBH1 without the stop codon were amplified by PCR from rice cDNA or Arabidopsis cDNA and cloned into pENTR/SD/D-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen) and then subcloned into destination vector pMDC83 (35S:C-GFP), pEarlygate101 (35S:C-YFP), p1390-Myc (35S:C-Myc), pDEST15 (N-GST), pMAL2CGW (N-MBP), pCY86 (N-GAL4BD), and pGAL4ADGW (N-GAL4AD). All binary vector constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 or strain EHA105 and then transformed into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method and transformed into rice calli using the A. tumefaciens–mediated transformation method (CITATION; CITATION). Primers used for the construction are listed in Supplement Table 1 online. The full-length cDNA of ILI1 was cloned into the pBD-GAL4 vector (Stratagene) and transformed into yeast strain AH109. The resulting yeast cells were then transformed with plasmid DNA derived from a rice cDNA library constructed from 3-week-old seedlings of the Japonica cultivar “Taipei309” (CITATION). Transformants (∼3.86 × 106) were screened for growth on medium lacking histidine but containing 5 mM 3-aminotriazol. Recovered clones were then assayed for LacZ activity using a filter lift assay. The HIS3+LacZ+ yeast clones were cultured, and the prey plasmids were isolated and then transformed into Escherichia coli for sequencing. Os IBH1 and At IBH1 fused to GST were purified using glutathione beads (GE Healthcare). ILI1 and PRE1 fused to maltose binding protein (MBP) were purified using amylose resin (NEB). Glutathione beads containing 1 g of GST-Os IBH1 or GST-At IBH1 were incubated with 1 g MBP, MBP-ILI1, or MBP-PRE1 in pull-down buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, and 1 mM DTT). The mixture was rotated in a cold room for 1 h, and the beads were washed five times with wash buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM EDTA, and 1 mM DTT). The proteins were eluted from the beads by boiling in 50 μL 2× SDS buffer and loaded onto a SDS-PAGE gel. Gel blots were analyzed using an anti-MBP antibody (NEB). All procedures were performed at 4°C. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves expressing ILI1-YFP and Os IBH1-myc or Arabidopsis rosette leaves of 3-week-old transgenic plants were ground in IP buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 40 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, and 1% Triton X-100), filtered, and centrifuged at 20,000g for 10 min. Supernatant (1 mL) was incubated with anti-GFP coupled to Protein A sepharose beads for 30 min. Beads were washed four times with wash buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 40 mM KCl, and 0.1% Triton X-100), and bound proteins were eluted with 2× SDS buffer. ChIP was performed following the protocol described previously (CITATION), using 3-week-old rice wild-type and 35S:OsBZR1-GFP transgenic rice plants or using Arabidopsis wild-type, pBZR1:BZR1-CFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants and 35S:BES1-GFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants. An affinity-purified anti-GFP polyclonal antibody was used for immunoprecipitation. The ChIP products were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table1 online), and enrichment was calculated as ratio between the transgenic sample and wild-type control sample. The ChIP experiments were performed with three biological replicates, from which the means and standard deviations were calculated. The ChIP microarray experiment (Figures 7G and 7H) was performed using the pBZR1:BZR1-CFP line with three biological repeats. ChIP DNAs were hybridized to the Affymetrix GeneChip Arabidopsis Tiling 1.0R array, which contains a 25-nucleotide oligo for every 35 bp of the Arabidopsis genome. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: ILI1, Os04g54900; ILI2, Os11g39000; ILI3, Os03g07540; ILI4, Os06g12210; ILI5, Os02g51320; ILI6, Os03g07510; ILI7, Os10g26460. PRE1, At5g39860; PRE2, At5g15160; PRE3, At1g74500; PRE4, At3g47710; PRE5, At3g28857; PRE6, At1g26945; Style2.1, ABX82931; Id1, CAI20171; Os IBH1, Os04g0660100; and At IBH1, At2g43060. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The Lamina Joint Angles of the Flag Leaf. Supplemental Figure 2. There Is No Obvious Change of Endogenous Levels of Active BRs in the ili1-D Mutant. Supplemental Figure 3. Some 35S:ILI1 Rice Lines Show Severe Growth Defects Compared with Wild-Type Control. Supplemental Figure 4. Phylogenic Analyses of ILI1 in Higher Plants. Supplemental Figure 5. The Phylogenic Tree of Rice ILIs, Arabidopsis PREs, and Related Proteins in Other Higher Plants with Sequenced Genomes. Supplemental Figure 6. The Phylogenic Tree of Rice IBH1 (Os04g0660100), Arabidopsis IBH1 (At2g43060), and Related Proteins in Other Higher Plants. Supplemental Figure 7. Gene Expression Pattern of At IBH1 and PRE1 Displayed by the eFP Brower. Supplemental Figure 8. PRE1 and At IBH1 Function Downstream of BIN2 in the BR Pathway. Supplemental Table 1. Sequences of PCR Oligos Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of Alignment Corresponding to the Phylogenetic Tree in Supplemental Figure 5. Supplemental Data Set 2. Text File of Alignment Corresponding to the Phylogenetic Tree in Supplemental Figure 6.
