!~ABS~! Cell division depends on the correct localization of the cyclin-dependent kinases that are regulated by phosphorylation, cyclin proteolysis, and protein-protein interactions. Although immunological assays can define cell cycle protein abundance and localization, they are not suitable for detecting the dynamic rearrangements of molecular components during cell division. Here, we applied an in vivo approach to trace the subcellular localization of 60 Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) core cell cycle proteins fused to green fluorescent proteins during cell division in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and Arabidopsis. Several cell cycle proteins showed a dynamic association with mitotic structures, such as condensed chromosomes and the preprophase band in both species, suggesting a strong conservation of targeting mechanisms. Furthermore, colocalized proteins were shown to bind in vivo, strengthening their localization-function connection. Thus, we identified unknown spatiotemporal territories where functional cell cycle protein interactions are most likely to occur.
!~RES~! Open reading frames of 60 core cell cycle proteins (Supplemental Table S2) were C-terminally fused to GFP with the Gateway technology and stably expressed in tobacco BY2 cells. The selected proteins included 57 previously annotated core cell cycle proteins (CITATION) and three proteins recently implicated in cell cycle control, namely CCS52A2, CCS52B, and CDKG;2 (CITATION; CITATION). C-terminal tagging was chosen to avoid the expression of truncated protein fusions. CCS52A2 and CYCB1;2, were N-terminally tagged because the C-terminal constructs did not yield fluorescent signals (Supplemental Table S2). The functionality of C-terminal fusions of CDKA;1 and CYCA2;3 had been confirmed previously by mutant complementation analysis (CITATION; CITATION). The N-terminal fusion of CCS52A2 rescued the ccs52a2 mutant phenotype (data not shown) similarly to the C-terminal construct under the control of the endogenous promoter (CITATION). Single and time-course images were analyzed for at least two independent transformation events to ensure consistency of the observed localization patterns. Our results provide localization data for 58 (97%) of the 60 analyzed proteins. The remaining two proteins (DEL1 and DEL2; 3%) were not imaged due to the absence of fluorescent signal (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Table S2). Of the transformed constructs, 67% were followed during division by time-lapse imaging; for 10%, only single images of cell division were recorded, whereas for the remaining 20%, only interphase cells were imaged. The images and movies showing tagged proteins in interphase as well as during division were gathered in a publicly available online database (http://www.psb.ugent.be/split-gfp/localisome.html). [[FIGURE]] BY2 cells are very amenable to rapid cell biological analysis of cell division-related processes (CITATION). We took advantage of these assets and initially analyzed the cell cycle fusion constructs in transformed BY2 callus cultures. The interphase BY2 cells were marked by an intact nuclear envelope and visible nucleolus in the differential interference contrast channel. The majority of the core cell cycle proteins localized exclusively to the nucleus or to both the nucleus and cytoplasm, namely 34 (59%) and 20 (34%) proteins, respectively (Fig. 1B), and four (7%) proteins localized to the cytoplasm only. As expected, cyclins showed the most variable localization patterns in interphase cells (Supplemental Fig. 1, A and B), of which 18 cyclins, including types B2, A2, and A3, were nuclear (Fig. 2, Ab, Ad, and Ae), four (CYCB1;1, CYCB1;2, CYCB1;3, and CYCB1;4) were exclusively cytoplasmic (Fig. 2Ac), and four (CYCA1;1, CYCD4;1, CYCD4;2, and CYCH;1) were present in both compartments (Fig. 2, Aa and Af; Supplemental Fig. 1B). Interestingly, besides the nuclear localization, a nucleolar localization was observed in cells expressing CYCB3;1 fusion protein (Fig. 2Ad). In spite of being driven by the 35S promoter, A-type and B-type cyclins were expressed at relatively low levels or were unstable in the interphase cells, as inferred by the weak GFP signals (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The A-type and B-type CDKs were distributed in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Fig. 2, Ba–Bc; Supplemental Fig. 1A), in contrast to some members of the CDK families of type C, E, and G, which were predominantly nuclear (Fig. 2, Bd–Bf). The CDK-cyclin complex inhibitors ICK1/KRP1, ICK2/KRP2, ICK6/KRP3, ICK3/KRP5, and ICK5/KRP7 were exclusively nuclear (Fig. 2, Ca–Cc and Ce; Supplemental Fig. 1A), whereas ICK7/KRP4 and ICK4/KRP6 were also detected in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2, Cd and Cf). Of all nuclear KRPs, KRP1, KRP3, and KRP5 showed a more complex subcellular patterning, which included the association with distinct punctate structures inside the nucleus (Fig. 2, Ca, Cc, and Ce). The CDK-activating kinases CDKD;2 and CDKF;1 localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm (Fig. 2, Da and Db; Supplemental Fig. 1A), whereas CDKD;1 and CDKD;3 were retained solely inside the nucleus (see images in the online database). Different localization patterns were observed for the transcription factors: the two DPs and E2Fa were nuclear and cytoplasmic (Fig. 2De), while DEL3, E2Fb, and E2Fc were exclusively nuclear (Fig. 2, Dd and Df; Supplemental Fig. 1A). Both CDK subunits, CKS1 and CKS2, were highly and homogenously expressed in the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Fig. 2, Ea and Eb; Supplemental Fig. 1A), while the two components of the anaphase-promoting complex, CCS52A2 and CCS52B, localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm (Fig. 2, Ec and Ed), where CCS52A2, but not CCS52B associated with multiple punctae. RBR1 and WEE1 proteins localized exclusively to the nucleus (Fig. 2, Ee and Ef). To build a more comprehensive map of the localization patterns of core cell cycle proteins, time-lapse recordings were made throughout mitosis. After nuclear envelope breakdown in late prophase, the majority of the fluorescent cell cycle proteins diffused into the cytoplasm and did not associate with any particular structures (Supplemental Table S2). After completion of cytokinesis and formation of the daughter nuclei, the localization remained as in the interphase cells (Fig. 3A). During cell division, the CDKB1;1-GFP signal occurred in the cytoplasm at the spindle position, whereas afterward the labeling diffused to the phragmoplast and was absent from the cell plate. [[FIGURE]] In contrast, a set of 16 proteins, consisting of CYCA2;1, CYCA2;2, CYCA2;3, CYCA2;4, CYCA3;1, CYCA3;2, CYCA3;4, CYCB1;1, CYCB1;2, CYCB1;3, CYCB2;3, CKS1, CKS2, KRP1, KRP3, and KRP4, localized to chromosomes in prophase, metaphase, or anaphase (Supplemental Table S2). Although these proteins localized to similar mitotic structures, different dynamic patterns were observed. For example, the fluorescent signal of the CKS2-GFP fusion (Fig. 3B) associated with the condensing chromosomes from prophase, persisted at the equatorial plane when the chromosome arms were fully condensed, and diffused during anaphase, when sister chromatids separated, whereas KRP1 (Fig. 3C) and KRP3 (see the online database) did not diffuse away from the chromosome arms after metaphase, but their chromosomal signal persisted throughout telophase and cytokinesis and remained associated with the nucleus when chromatin decondensed. Analysis of the timing of the chromosomal association and fluorescence disappearance (Fig. 3D; Supplemental Table S2) revealed that A-type and B2-type cyclins disappeared before the chromosome separation. In contrast, the fluorescent signals of B1-type cyclins, CKS proteins, and KRP4 persisted only until anaphase, and some weak fluorescence was observed in the region of the spindle during metaphase and anaphase (Fig. 3, D and E). Interestingly, CYCA3;4 was observed on condensing prophase chromatin, but this protein no longer associated with the aligned metaphase chromosomes (see online database). To more accurately time the dynamics of the fluorescence patterning, GFP-tagged and red fluorescent protein (RFP)-tagged versions of the cell cycle proteins were coexpressed and simultaneously monitored. For example, the colocalization of KRP4 with either CKS1 or CYCB1;2 was analyzed (Fig. 3, D and E). Both pairs of fluorescent proteins associated with the condensing chromosomes; however, while the KRP4 and CKS1 fluorescence was visible until mid anaphase, the fluorescent signal of CYCB1;2 disappeared in early anaphase. A mitosis-specific protein association, distinct from that mentioned above, was visible for CCS52A2 but not for its close homolog CCS52B (Fig. 4A). At the onset of mitosis, the fluorescent CCS52A2 fusion localized to the nucleus and to cytoplasmic punctae. In metaphase, the GFP-labeled punctae moved from the cell cortex toward the division plane and the GFP-CCS52A2 protein accumulated in the zone around and between the condensed chromosomes in metaphase. Interestingly, the CCS52A2 protein transiently accumulated at the PPB (Fig. 4A). Besides CCS52A2, several other proteins localized to the PPB, namely CYCA1;1 (Fig. 4B), KRP4 (Fig. 4C), and CKS2. All of them transiently marked the PPB zone, and while CKS2 and KRP4 later associated with the chromosomes (Figs. 3B and 4C), CYCA1;1 was excluded from the metaphase plate but was present at the spindle and disappeared before anaphase (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] To determine the localization of the core cell cycle proteins in a tissue context, all GFP fusion constructs were stably transformed in Arabidopsis (Supplemental Table S2) and homozygous lines exhibiting no macroscopic phenotypes were selected for further analysis. Several endogenous promoter open reading frame-GFP fusions were created to confirm the localization patterns observed with the 35S promoter. Interphase and dividing cells from roots and cotyledons of 2- to 4-d-old seedlings were imaged. As observed in BY2, CKS1 and CKS2 displayed identical localization patterns (Fig. 5, A and B) and accumulated in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Fig. 5, Aa and Ba) in interphase cells. In metaphase, the fluorescent signal associated with the chromosomes (Fig. 5, Ab and Bc). The CKS2 localization to the PPB was more pronounced in Arabidopsis than in BY2 cells (Fig. 5Bb). The specific association of CKS1 with the chromosomes was also confirmed with the endogenous promoter in Arabidopsis (Supplemental Fig. 2A). Notably, the expression level of the endogenous promoter-driven CKS1 transcript was higher than that under the control of the 35S promoter (Supplemental Fig. 2D). [[FIGURE]] Similar to the observation in BY2 cells, CYCB1;2 was cytoplasmic in interphase cells (Fig. 5Ca) and associated with chromosomes during cell division (Fig. 5Cb). Interestingly, in both BY2 and Arabidopsis cells, a ring of brighter fluorescence was observed outside the nucleus prior to the division event, corresponding to either the nuclear envelope or the prophase spindle (Figs. 2Ac and 5C; see also online database). The localization of the CYCA2;3-GFP fusion protein was studied in Arabidopsis plants upon overnight estradiol induction (CITATION), because plants transformed with the fusion under the control of the 35S promoter yielded a very low fluorescence. As previously reported (CITATION), the CYCA2;3 fluorescent signal was detected exclusively in the nuclei of interphase cells, where it associated with multiple nuclear speckles (Fig. 5, Da and Db). During mitosis, CYCA2;3-GFP associated with metaphase chromosomes, and later, the signal disappeared from the separating chromatids (Fig. 5Dc). In Arabidopsis, KRP1 and KRP3 localized to the nucleus and displayed a dotted-like pattern inside the nuclei (Fig. 5, Ea and Fa, respectively), whereas KRP4 was uniformly nuclear, cytoplasmic, and marked the PPB (Fig. 5, Ga and Gb), in agreement with the BY2 localization data. The chromosomal association of KRP1 and KRP3 persisted in anaphase and the following stages (Fig. 5, Eb and Fb), whereas the KRP4 signal was detected on metaphase chromosomes (Fig. 5Gc). The chromosomal association of KRP4 was confirmed in an Arabidopsis line expressing the KRP4-GFP fusion under the control of the endogenous promoter (Supplemental Fig. 2B) and displaying a significantly lower KRP4 transcript level when compared with the KRP4 overexpression line (Supplemental Fig. 2D). The localization pattern of CDKB1;1 was nuclear and cytoplasmic in interphase cells (Fig. 5Ha) and diffused to the cytoplasm upon nuclear envelope breakdown. Later, it weakly associated with the phragmoplast, confirming the localization pattern in BY2 cells (Fig. 5Hb). In interphase cells of young cotyledons, the CDKA;1-GFP signal was nuclear and cytoplasmic (Fig. 5Ia). In dividing cells, the CDKA;1 signal associated with the PPB (Fig. 5Ia), and in some cells, it persisted through later stages of mitosis (Fig. 5Ib). In prophase, CDKA;1 associated with condensing chromatin in the nucleus before the nuclear envelope broke down (Fig. 5Ib). Afterward, the protein localized to the mitotic spindle apparatus, was excluded from the metaphase plate (Fig. 5Ic), and associated with the midzone of the anaphase spindle (Fig. 5Id). Subsequently, the protein clearly marked the early and expanding phragmoplast (Fig. 5Ie). Identical localization patterns (Supplemental Fig. 1B) were observed when CDKA;1 fused to YFP was expressed in Arabidopsis under the control of its endogenous promoter (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the CCS52A2 protein localized to the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Fig. 5Ja). The punctate localization pattern, although present, was less pronounced than in BY2 cells (Fig. 5Jb). Overall, the protein localization in Arabidopsis plants confirmed the patterns observed in BY2 cells. Because several core cell cycle proteins displayed overlapping localization patterns, we hypothesized that they might form functional complexes. Thus, all proteins associating with chromosomes and the PPB were tested for direct binary interactions among each other using the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay in tobacco epidermal cells (Supplemental Table S3). The protein-protein interaction networks (Fig. 6, A and C) indicated 18 binary interactions among the chromosome-associated proteins and seven binary interactions among the PPB-localized proteins. Although BiFC failed to reveal a direct interaction between CCS52A2 and any of the PPB-localized proteins, CCS52A2 was included in the network because it had been detected previously in a complex with CYCA1;1 and CYCB1;2 by immunoprecipitation experiments (Fig. 6C; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because of its chromatin association (CITATION; CITATION), CDKA;1 was tested for interaction with all chromosome-associated proteins in BiFC (Supplemental Table S3). Interestingly, the incorporation of CDKA;1 into the network increased the number of edges to 33 (Fig. 6B), indirectly supporting the presence of CDKA;1 on condensed chromosomes and suggesting that the localization of the CDK component in mitosis might depend on its interacting partners. To verify this hypothesis, we analyzed Arabidopsis plants stably expressing selected binary CDK complexes (Fig. 6D). Arabidopsis plants expressing the C-terminal fragment of GFP (cGFP) fused to CDKA;1 were stably cotransformed with individual constructs containing CKS1, KRP1, or KRP4 proteins tagged with the N-terminal fragment of GFP (nGFP). CKS1 formed a complex with CDKA;1 in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm (Fig. 6D). In metaphase cells, the complex diffused to the cytoplasm and the spindle zone but did not associate with chromosomes (Fig. 6Db). KRP1 and KRP4 interacted with CDKA;1 exclusively in the nucleus and showed characteristics of the KRP-dotted subnuclear localization pattern (Fig. 6, Dc and De). Interestingly, in dividing root meristematic cells, the KRP1/CDKA;1 and KRP4/CDKA;1 complexes associated with metaphase chromosomes (Fig. 6, Dd and Df), suggesting that the localization of CDKA;1 depended on the interacting partners.
!~MM~! The set of 60 cell cycle genes was cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR221 (CITATION). The recombination reactions were done according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). The GFP fusion constructs carried a kanamycin resistance gene, whereas those with RFP were selectable on hygromycin. The p35S-driven GFP fusion constructs were generated in the destination vectors pK7FWG2 and pK7WGF2 for C-terminal and N-terminal fusions, respectively. RFP fusions were constructed similarly (in the destination vector pH7RWG2 for C-terminal fusions), except that GFP was substituted with RFP in the destination vector. The split GFP fusions were generated as described (CITATION). Binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 by electroporation. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h of light, 8 h of darkness) at 22°C on half-strength Murashige and Skoog germination medium. Plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin-containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog solid medium. The split GFP lines with expression pairs of interacting proteins were created by supertransformation of (kanamycin-resistant) CDKA;1-cGFP or CDKB1;1-cGFP lines with (hygromycin-resistant) nGFP-tagged interactor constructs. Stable tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum ‘Bright Yellow 2’) transformation was carried out as described (CITATION). Several independently transformed calli were imaged for each construct. For colocalization studies, a few calli of chosen constructs were selected. BY2 callus harboring the GFP-tagged protein fusion was resuspended in the liquid medium and then supertransformed with other RFP-tagged proteins. Positive double transformants were selected on a medium enriched for hygromycin. Fresh Arabidopsis seedlings were ground. The RNA was extracted with the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). The RNA concentration was adjusted, and 1 μg of total RNA was used for cDNA amplification (SuperScript RNA polymerase III; Invitrogen). Quantitative PCR was done with the following primer pair for GFP amplification: 5′-GACAAGCAGAAGAACGGCATCAAGGTGA-3′ and 5′-CTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGAGAGTG-3′. Fluorescence was analyzed with a confocal microscope (LSM 510 version 3.2 [Zeiss] or FluoView FV1000 [Olympus]), both equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective (numerical aperture of 1.2) to scan cells. Dual GFP and RFP fluorescence was sequentially imaged in a multichannel setting with 488- and 543-nm light for GFP and RFP excitation, respectively. Emission fluorescence was captured in the frame-scanning mode, alternating GFP and RFP fluorescence via a 500- to 550-nm bandpass emission filter and a 560-nm cutoff filter, respectively. Images were recorded at 2× to 8× digital zoom. When no GFP fluorescence could be detected, instability of the fusion protein or lack of expression due to silencing or counterselection were assumed (CITATION). GFP-positive calli and Arabidopsis seedlings were further analyzed. For live-cell recordings, samples were applied to a chambered cover glass (Lab-Tek) and immobilized in a thin layer of 200 μL of BY2 medium containing vitamins and 0.8% low-melting-point agar (Invitrogen). Cells were monitored over the course of several hours and imaged every 3 min (approximately 200 images). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Distribution of the localization patterns among the Arabidopsis core cell cycle proteins in interphase. Supplemental Figure S2. Subcellular localization patterns of selected proteins expressed under the control of their endogenous promoters. Supplemental Table S1. Overview of the Arabidopsis core cell cycle proteins and their subcellular localization. Supplemental Table S2. Literature search on the localization of plant core cell cycle proteins. Supplemental Table S3. Protein-protein interaction screen of the Arabidopsis core cell cycle proteins by the BiFC assay in tobacco epidermal cells.
