!~ABS~! Membrane associated proteins SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors) provide the minimal fusion machinery necessary for cellular vesicles to fuse to target organelle membranes in eukaryotic cells. Despite the conserved nature of the fusion machinery in all eukaryotes, it still remains challenging to identify functional SNARE pairs in higher plants. We developed a method based on a split-luciferase complementation assay for detecting changes in SNARE–SNARE interaction by luminescence within Arabidopsis protoplasts that express recombinant proteins at physiological levels in 96-well plates. The reliability of the assay was confirmed by three experiments. First, reduction of the SNARE–SNARE interaction caused by a single amino acid substitution adjacent to the SNARE motif in endosome-localized AtVAM3/SYP22 (syntaxin of plant 22) was detected by a reduction of luminescence. Second, reduction of the interaction between plasma-membrane localized SYP121 and VAMP722 in response to sodium azide was detected in real-time. Third, the results of 21 SNARE pairs investigated by this method largely agreed with the results from previously reported co-immunoprecipitation assays. Using the method, we newly identified the interaction between SYP121 and VAMP722 was significantly increased when the protoplasts were incubated in the light. Microscopic observation of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing GFP–SYP121 (green fluorescent protein tagged SYP121) from its own promoter suggested that the plasma-membrane localization of GFP–SYP121 is maintained by light. These suggested that the vesicle trafficking pathway mediated by SYP121 might be regulated by light in Arabidopsis. In general, this article demonstrated the method that can generate new biological insight of the SNARE protein interactions in plant cells.
!~RES~! The rationale for the split luciferase complementation assay (SLC assay) is depicted in Fig. 1. In our SLC assay, Renilla luciferase is split into a 229 amino acid amino-terminal fragment and an 82 amino acid carboxy-terminal fragment. These fragments are fused to the N-terminal ends of bait and prey SNAREs through a 2 × (GGGGS) flexible linker plus the sequence required for the Gateway® in vitro recombination (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION). As a consequence, the calculated sizes of the tags are 30 kDa for the amino-terminal fragment tag (NLuc) and 12 kDa for the carboxy-terminal fragment tag (CLuc), respectively. The SLC assay utilizes the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter to express SNARE proteins in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION). A notable drawback of this promoter is that it tends to overexpress fused genes. Gene overexpression may cause mis-localization or aggregation in selected SNAREs in Arabidopsis (Uemura et al. CITATION; Foresti et al. CITATION), potentially resulting in malfunctions in vesicle trafficking. We attempted to minimize overexpression of split-luciferase-tagged SNAREs in protoplasts by altering the amount of vector DNA introduced to the cells. To quantify the accumulation of recombinant proteins, we conducted semi-quantitative immunoblot analyses with antibodies that specially recognized Qc-SNARE, SYP51 (syntaxin of plant 51), and Qa-SNARE, AtVAM3/SYP22, respectively (Fig. 2). These SNAREs are known to form a tetrameric SNARE complex with Qb-SNARE, VTI11, and R-SNARE, VAMP727, in the vacuolar trafficking pathway in Arabidopsis (Ebine et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  We identified endogenous SYP51 and SYP22 at 26 and 29 kDa, respectively as previously reported (Sato et al. CITATION; Yano et al. CITATION) (Fig. 2). We also detected CLuc–SYP51 and CLuc–SYP22 at their predicted protein sizes (38 and 41 kDa) (Fig. 2). Two extra bands just below the signal at 41 kDa in the blot with anti-SYP22 antibody indicated that some of CLuc–SYP22 protein might degrade. However, because faint bands at this level were detected in the mock transformed protoplasts (lanes 0 μg in the SYP22 blot), we were not able to address exactly what these bands were in these experiments. The relative signal intensities of the antibody label show that the accumulation levels of CLuc–SYP51 and CLuc–SYP22 were 2.4 and 1.8-fold higher than their endogenous counterparts when 12,000 protoplasts were transected with 0.5 μg of the prey and bait vectors (Fig. 2). However, we were able to detect luminescence with high signal-to-background ratios in these conditions (Table 1 and Supplemental Fig. 2). Similarly, three independent experiments showed that CLuc–SYP51 and CLuc–SYP22 accumulated less than threefold over their endogenous protein levels (data not shown). Therefore, we used the transformation conditions established in this analysis for other SNARE proteins as well unless specific conditions are mentioned in this report.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] An interaction of AtVAM3/SYP22 and VTI11 was previously identified by co-immunoprecipitation assay (Sato et al. CITATION). Using the same assay, it was also shown that a single amino acid substitute of SYP22 in the fifth amino acid upstream of the SNARE motif (SYP22E191K, designated the sgr3-1 mutant) reduced interactions with VTI11 (Yano et al. CITATION). To test whether the SLC assay can resolve changes in these interactions at this level, we measured the interaction of CLuc–VTI11 with NLuc–SYP22m (SYP22E191K) and NLuc–SYP22 (Fig. 3). We transformed protoplasts with 1 μg of the bait vector expressing CLuc–VTI11 and various amounts (0, 0.1, 0.15, 0.3, 0.6, and 1.2 μg) of the prey vector expressing either NLuc–SYP22m or NLuc–SYP22. Because the accumulation levels of the recombinant proteins positively correlate with the vector amounts transformed (Fig. 2), we assumed that the vector amount represented the levels of recombinant proteins accumulated in the cells in this experiment. We then compared the normalized RLUs (relative luminescence units). In this experiment, we co-transformed a vector that expresses click beetle red luciferase (full length) that uses a different substrate (luciferin) from spilt luciferase (ViviRen) and emits red (613 nm) luminescence. Hence, the cyan luminescence from split luciferase was divided by the red luminescence to normalize RLUs in each transformation (Fig. 3a), defined as the normalized cyan/red RLU thereafter. The plots revealed that the normalized cyan/red RLUs of the SYP22m–VTI11 interaction were about half that of the SYP22–VTI11 interaction. For example, when 1.2 μg of the prey vector was transformed, the normalized cyan/red RLU of the SYP22m–VTI11 interaction was 0.51-fold lower than that of the SYP22–VTI11 interaction (Fig. 3a, P = 0.0027). We also found that the amount of NLuc–SYP22m protein accumulated in the transformed protoplasts was slightly higher than that of NLuc–SYP22 in immunoblots (Fig. 3b). It is presently not clear why the NLuc–SYP22m protein accumulates at higher levels than the NLuc–SYP22 protein. Nevertheless, these results indicate that the SLC assay can detect a decrease in SNARE–SNARE interactions caused by a single amino acid substitution. [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether the SLC assay can detect changes in SNARE–SNARE interactions in real-time, we measured effects of ATP on the interaction between SYP121/PEN1 (Qa-SNARE) and VAMP722 (R-SNARE). SYP121 and VAMP722 form a tetrameric SNARE complex with SNAP33 (Qbc-SNARE) in Arabidopsis to secrete anti-fungal compounds at a location where powdery mildew fungi invade (Kwon et al. CITATION). Fusion between secretary vesicles and the plasma membrane depends on ATP in neuroendocrine cells (Bethani et al. CITATION). Moreover, previous studies suggest that ATP is involved in the plant response to the invasion of powdery mildew fungi into the cells (Wrona et al. CITATION; Stein et al. CITATION; Meyer et al. CITATION). Therefore, we reasoned that addition of sodium azide, an ATP synthase inhibitor, during the measurement of luminescence, would decrease the RLUs of the SYP121–VAMP722 interaction. Because sodium azide causes many cellular processes to be malfunction, the experiment was not designed to demonstrate the specificity of the SYP121–VAMP721 interaction, rather than to demonstrate the capability of detecting changes of the SNARE–SNARE interaction in real-time. The normalized cyan/red RLU between NLuc–SYP121 and CLuc–VAMP722 was 10.85 ± 0.91 (N = 4). In this experiment, only the RLU of split luciferase (cyan luminescence) was measured because the activity of click beetle red luciferase depends ATP. Typically, the RLUs of split luciferase increased for 7–10 min after adding ViviRen, then decreased gradually (data not shown). Therefore, for this experiment, we waited to add the sodium azide until after the luminescence had reached its highest point. We here show a time course in these experiments, in which the highest luminescence before adding sodium azide is defined as 1 RLU (Fig. 4). Our time course experiments indicated that the RLUs of the SYP121–VAMP722 interaction rapidly decreased with sodium azide but not with the mock (Fig. 4a). Unexpectedly, RLUs of full length Renilla luciferase temporarily increased in response to sodium azide (Fig. 4b). We believe that this was mainly due to a rapid increase in the concentration of the substrate in the cytosol caused by the malfunction of ATP-dependent channels in the plasma membrane, which could regulate the transport of ViviRen. This indicated that the sodium azide-dependent reduction of the RLUs of the SYP121–VAMP722 interaction might be more rapid than the data reveal. Regardless of this finding, these results indicate that the SLC assay can detect a reduction of SNARE–SNARE interactions in real-time. Furthermore, the reduction of the luminescence was not due to a decrease in recombinant proteins because immunoblots detected little difference in the accumulation levels of the proteins in the presence and absence of sodium azide (Supplementary Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]]  To further test the robustness of the SLC assay, we compared our results to co-immunoprecipitation assays reported by Sanderfoot et al. (CITATION) and Kwon et al. (CITATION). We found that 80% of the interaction data (17 out of 21 interactions) from the SLC assay, with an arbitrary threshold of a normalized cyan/red RLU (3.14), agreed with the results of the co-immunoprecipitation assay (Table 1 and Supplemental Fig. 2). This agreement is regardless of the type of SNARE (Qa, Qb, Qbc, Qc, and R), the protein sizes (199 aa–322 aa), and localizations (the Golgi apparatus, vacuole, endosomes, prevacuole, and plasma membrane) (Table 1). The threshold was chosen based on the data of SYP21–SYP51 interaction that showed the lowest normalized cyan/red RLU (3.21 ± 0.16) among the positive SNARE pairs in the co-immunoprecipitation assays (except SYP41–SYP61) and that of SYP21–SYP61 interaction that showed the highest normalized cyan/red RLU (3.06 ± 0.21) among the negative SNARE pairs in the co-immunoprecipitation assays (except SYP51–SYP71, SYP61–SYP71, and SYP61–SYP22) (Sanderfoot et al. CITATION) (Supplemental Fig. 2). This arbitrary threshold gave the highest agreement between the SLC and co-immunoprecipitation assay. Based on this threshold, we newly identified SNARE pairs that would interact in cells. These includes SYP51 and SYP61 as the interaction partners of VAMP711 (vacuolar localized R-SNARE involved in salt tolerance of Arabidopsis (Leshem et al. CITATION)) and VAMP727 (prevacuole/endosome localized R-SNARE involved in vacuolar transport) because the normalized cyan/red RLUs of VAMP711–SYP51, VAMP711–SYP61, VAMP727–SYP51, and VAMP727–SYP61 interactions are significantly higher (P < 0.005) than the threshold (Table 1). For supporting our findings, the SYP51–VAMP727 interaction was recently identified by immunoprecipitation assay (Ebine et al. CITATION). This suggests that the SLC assay is capable of identifying novel SNARE–SNARE interactions. Lastly, to elucidate a novel insight of SNARE interactions in plant cells by the SLC assay, we conducted a screening with various SNARE pairs and conditions that are physiologically relevant to plants. Four independent transformations (wells) were used to generate a result of one condition in one SNARE pair. Typically, we added a biochemical or mock solution (10 μl) into four wells in a 96-well plate where protoplasts expressing the same SNARE pair were incubated in the 100 μl solution in the wells. The plate was then incubated for a defined time (1–16 h) before measuring luminescence. The biochemicals we used included abscisic acid (10 μM), auxin (1 μM), gibberellin (1 μM), flg-22 peptide (1 μM), and hydrogen peroxide (200 μM); adapted from the experiments for the MAPK cascade signaling network (http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/mapk_cascades_nsf.html). We also used calcium chloride (100 mM) and sodium chloride (100 μM). Alternatively, protoplasts were transformed with the same vectors in two 96-well plates (four wells each for one SNARE pair). The two plates were then independently incubated in different conditions for 16 h. The incubation conditions included temperature (20 and 25°C) and light (continuous light, 100 μmol/m2/s, and the dark). The results of the assay were varied, depending on the SNARE pairs and the biochemical/incubation conditions we used (data not shown). In this report, we show a change of the interaction between SYP121 and VAMP722 by light which led us to the further investigation in plants. The SLC screening revealed that the RLU of split luciferase between NLuc–SYP121 and CLuc–VAMP722 was significantly increased (3.6-fold higher at the average in three independent experiments) when the transformed protoplasts were incubated under the light although the RLU of full-length Renilla luciferase was little changed under the same conditions (Fig. 5). Other SNARE pairs examined also showed a trend of increased RLUs under the light (data not shown). However, their changes were not significantly different from that in full-length Renilla luciferase. For instance, NLuc–SYP132, Qa-SNARE localized in the plasma membrane, showed the positive interaction with CLuc–VAM722 (the normalized cyan/red RLU was 11.62 ± 0.66, N = 4, in the dark), similar to NLuc–SYP121 and CLuc–VAMP722 (the normalized cyan/red RLU was 10.85 ± 0.91, N = 4, in the dark). The RLU of split luciferase between NLuc–SYP132 and CLuc–VAMP722 under the light was 1.3-fold higher than that under the dark at the average of the three different experiments, but the change was not significantly different (P = 0.292) from that in full-length Renilla luciferase (Fig. 5). This suggested that the significant increase of the split luciferase RLU occurred specifically in the interaction between NLuc–SYP121 and CLuc–VAMP722 among the SNARE pairs tested. Because the 35S promoter is not regulated by light in protoplasts (Hartmann et al. CITATION), this result also suggested that the increase might occur at the post-transcriptional level. [[FIGURE]]  We sought to test whether or not the light regulation of the interaction identified through the protoplasts-based SCL assay was true in plants as well. SYP121, SYP132, and VAMP722 all localize in the plasma membrane in both protoplasts and plants (Uemura et al. CITATION; Kwon et al. CITATION; Enami et al. CITATION). Based on the results of the SCL assay, we hypothesized that the SYP121 interaction, but not the SYP132, with VAMP722 is regulated by light. Although we wish to analyze these interactions in planta, we have not been able to obtain the result due to absence of materials, such as specific antibodies for each SNARE or transgenic Arabidopsis expressing epitope-tagged SNAREs, in our hands at this point. Alternatively, we analyzed transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express either GFP–SYP121or GFP–SYP132 from their own promoters (Enami et al. CITATION) to identify the subcellular localizations of these SNAREs in plants. We reasoned that if the SYP121 interaction is specifically regulated by light at the post-transcriptional level in plants as well, we may see some changes in GFP–SYP121, but not GFP–SYP132, in plants grown in the dark. Based on this working model, we examined GFP–SYP121 and GFP–SYP132 in the seedlings that were grown in the dark or the light. Microscopic observation of the roots indicates that GFP–SYP121 in the dark-grown seedlings does not localize in the plasma membrane (Fig. 6) but in an other compartment that is most likely the vacuole (Supplemental Fig. 3A). Furthermore, we found that GFP–SYP121 forms BFA (brefeldin A) compartments, a marker for recycling endosomes (Tanaka et al. CITATION), in the light-grown seedlings (Supplemental Fig. 3B). On the other hand, GFP–SYP132 is localized in the plasma membrane in both the dark- and light-grown seedlings (Fig. 6), and does not form the BFA compartments (Supplemental Fig. 3B). These suggest that the plasma membrane localization of SYP121, but not SYP132, may be regulated by light and the protein recycling mechanism in the Arabidopsis seedling roots (see Discussion for the details). Although we are not able to address whether the interaction between SYP121 and VAMP722 is regulated by light in plants at this point, this in planta experiment encourages further investigation on the light regulation in the SNARE interactions. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Protoplasts were prepared from rosette leaves of 3 weeks old Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) as we described previously (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION). When subcellular localization of GFP–SYP121 and GFP–SYP132 were analyzed, seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana expressing GFP–SYP121 or GFP–SYP132 from their own promoters (Enami et al. CITATION) were germinated on a agar plate containing ½ Murashige–Skoog salts (Sigma) and incubated in a walk-in chamber (16 h light, 100 μmol/m2/s, and 8 h dark at 20°C) for 4 days. To germinate the seedlings in the dark, the plates were kept in a cardboard box covered by aluminum foil in the same chamber. SNARE cDNAs were previously subcloned (Uemura et al. CITATION) or obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (OH). The coding sequences in the cDNAs were amplified by PCR with primers for subcloning into the pDONR/zeo vector (Invitrogen, CA). The resultant vectors were used to subclone the coding sequences into pDuExAn6 or D7 expression vectors (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION). The NLuc–SYP21m expression vector was generated based on the NLuc–SYP21 expression vector with the in vitro site-directed mutagenesis kit (Promega). Protoplasts transformations were conducted as we described previously (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION) with minor modifications. The bait (0.5 μg), prey (0.5 μg) vectors suspended in 20 μl of water were used to transfect 1.2 × 104 protoplasts in 40 μl of the MMg buffer (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION). When changes of the split luciferase luminescence was monitored in real-time, 1 μg of the bait vector and 1 μg of the prey vector suspended in 20 μl of water were used. Split luciferase luminescence was measuring as we described previously (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION) with minor modifications. When changes of the split luciferase luminescence was monitored in real-time, 10 μl of 120 μM ViviRen (Promega), the Renilla luciferase substrate, was added to wells of 96-well plates in which 1.2 × 104 protoplasts were suspended in 100 μl of the incubation solution (0.5 M mannitol, 4 mM MES, and 20 mM sodium chloride) in each well. Relative luminescence units were measured by a microplate luminometer (Turner BioSystems) with fastest scan intervals. Ten micro litter of 10 mM sodium azide was added in the wells soon after the luminescence from the transformed protoplasts reached the highest (about 7 min after the ViviRen was added). The plate was then quickly return to the luminometer. Accordingly, the exact timing of sodium azide addition and luminescence sampling were varied by experiments. To compensate, the independent transformation number (N) was increased and the experiment was repeated to confirm the similar changes of the luminescence intensities. When the transformed protoplasts were exposed to light, a 96-well plate was incubated in a reach-in chamber (continuous light, 100 μmol/m2/s, at 25°C for 16 h). The other 96-well plate was kept in a cardboard box covered by aluminum foil to incubate the protoplasts in the dark in the same chamber. Luminescence was measured with a 0.5 s integration period in a microplate luminometer. When the split luciferase luminescence was normalized by transformation efficiency, 1 μg of pMONT, the vector expressing the full length click beetle red luciferase (Promega) from the 35S promoter, was co-transformed with the bait (0.5 μg), prey (0.5 μg) vectors. After the split luciferase luminescence was measured, 10 μl of 1.5 mM beetle luciferase substrate, luciferin (Promega), was added to each well. The luminescence from the beetle luciferase activity was measured through a red (600 nm<) filter (Kodak Wratten filter No. 29, Kodak, NY) with a 0.5 s integration period using the Veritas Microplate Luminometer 20 min after the substrate was added. No bleed-through occurs from the cyan (split luciferase luminescence) to the red (beetle red luciferase luminescence) filter in our conditions. RLUs of split-luciferase were divided by the RLUs of beetle red luciferase. Immunoblot was conducted as we previously described (Fujikawa and Kato CITATION) with SYP22 (Sato et al. CITATION), SYP51 (Yano et al. CITATION), NLuc (Millipore), or GFP (Invitrogen) specific antibodies. When signal intensities on the blots were analyzed, the X-ray films were scanned and analyzed by ImageJ. Fluorescence microscopy on the transgenic plants was conducted as we described previously (Kato et al. CITATION). When the formation of the BFA compartments was tested, the seedlings were floated on a Petri dish containing 30 μM of brefeldin A (Sigma) for 3 h before the observation.
