!~ABS~! Histidine (His) plays a critical role in plant growth and development, both as one of the standard amino acids in proteins, and as a metal-binding ligand. While genes encoding seven of the eight enzymes in the pathway of His biosynthesis have been characterized from a number of plant species, the identity of the enzyme catalyzing the dephosphorylation of histidinol-phosphate to histidinol has remained elusive. Recently, members of a novel family of histidinol-phosphate phosphatase proteins, displaying significant sequence similarity to known myoinositol monophosphatases (IMPs) have been identified from several Actinobacteria. Here we demonstrate that a member of the IMP family from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), myoinositol monophosphatase-like2 (IMPL2; encoded by At4g39120), has histidinol-phosphate phosphatase activity. Heterologous expression of IMPL2, but not the related IMPL1 protein, was sufficient to rescue the His auxotrophy of a Streptomyces coelicolor hisN mutant. Homozygous null impl2 Arabidopsis mutants displayed embryonic lethality, which could be rescued by supplying plants heterozygous for null impl2 alleles with His. In common with the previously characterized HISN genes from Arabidopsis, IMPL2 was expressed in all plant tissues and throughout development, and an IMPL2:green fluorescent protein fusion protein was targeted to the plastid, where His biosynthesis occurs in plants. Our data demonstrate that IMPL2 is the HISN7 gene product, and suggest a lack of genetic redundancy at this metabolic step in Arabidopsis, which is characteristic of the His biosynthetic pathway.
!~RES~! To identify putative homologs in Arabidopsis of the IMP-like proteins that catalyze the dephosphorylation of histidinol-P in the Actinobacteria, we carried out BLAST analysis of the Arabidopsis protein RefSeq database with the S. coelicolor HPP protein (NP_629355). This identified three proteins with approximately 30% sequence identity to NP_629355: VTC4 (At3g02870), IMPL1 (At1g31190), and IMPL2 (At4g39120; Supplemental Fig. S1), all members of the IMP superfamily. VTC4, IMPL1, and IMPL2 have recently been shown to catalyze the dephosphorylation of d-Ins 1-P, d-Ins 3-P, and l-Gal 1-P (CITATION). However, their ability to utilize histidinol-P as a substrate has not been reported. All known plant HISN genes contain N-terminal plastid transit peptide encoding sequences, and it is thought that His biosynthesis is localized to the plastid (CITATION). It is thus highly probable that any HPP enzyme(s) in Arabidopsis would also be targeted to this organelle. Both IMPL1 and IMPL2 satisfy this criterion. These two proteins contain putative plastid transit peptide sequences as predicted by ChloroP analysis (CITATION), and have been detected in mass spectrometry analyses of purified chloroplast preparations from Arabidopsis (CITATION). In contrast, VTC4 does not contain a predicted plastid transit peptide, and is instead a membrane protein; HMMTOP analysis (CITATION) predicts the presence of three transmembrane α -helices and VTC4 has been detected in purified plasma membrane preparations by mass spectrometry analysis (CITATION). In contrast to yeast, there is little evidence for the operation of a general control of nitrogen metabolism regulatory mechanism in plants. However, the genes encoding the first six enzymes in Arabidopsis have GCN4-like binding sites in their upstream regions (CITATION), which may be indicative of transcriptional coregulation. In addition, inhibition of IGPD activity has been shown to result in increased expression of histidinol dehydrogenase (HDH) in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We used the Arabidopsis Coexpression Data Mining tool (CITATION) to identify genes coexpressed with IMPL1 and IMPL2 across 322 publicly available Affymetrix ATH1 microarray datasets. This analysis identified two His biosynthetic genes (in the top five) as showing the most positive correlation in expression with IMPL2; ProFAR-I (At2g36230, HISN3) ranked first and HDH (At5g63890, HISN8) ranked fourth (Supplemental Table S1). In addition, HPA (At5g10330, HISN6A and At1g71920, HISN6B) was ranked 61st with an r value of 0.56. In contrast, none of the known HISN genes were returned in the top 200 genes most positively correlated with IMPL1 expression in Arabidopsis. Finally, analysis of the IMPL1 and IMPL2 amino acid sequences revealed that a Gly residue required for HPP activity in the S. coelicolor enzyme (CITATION) was conserved in IMPL2 but not IMPL1 where it is replaced by Glu (Supplemental Fig. S1). On the basis of our bioinformatic analyses we investigated whether IMPL2 encodes a functional HPP enzyme in Arabidopsis. As histidinol-P is no longer commercially available to test for HPP activity of recombinant IMPL2 protein, we instead determined whether heterologous expression of IMPL2 was sufficient to complement the His auxotrophy of the S. coelicolor HPP mutant hisN (CITATION). hisN protoplasts transformed with the empty pIJ8600 expression vector were able to grow on minimal media (plus Phe) only if supplemented with 50 μ g mL−1 His, while transformation with pIJ8600:IMPL2 allowed the mutant to grow on minimal media without added His (Fig. 2), confirming that IMPL2 possesses HPP activity. In contrast, heterologous expression of IMPL1 was not sufficient to complement the His auxotrophy of the hisN strain (Fig. 2), suggesting that IMPL1 does not possess HPP activity. [[FIGURE]] A conserved Gly residue has previously been shown to be required for HPP activity in S. coelicolor (CITATION). This residue is present in all putative HPP homologs subsequently identified in the Actinobacteria, and is also present in IMPL2 but not IMPL1 (Supplemental Fig. S1). To determine whether Gly-195 was required for the HPP activity of IMPL2, we used PCR site-directed mutagenesis to generate a mutant protein where this residue was substituted with Arg. hisN cells expressing the mutant IMPL2 protein were unable to grow on minimal media (plus Phe) without supplementation with 50 μ g mL−1 His, demonstrating that Gly-195 is also required for HPP activity of IMPL2 (Fig. 2). A search of the Protein Data Bank for homologs of IMPL2 produces 22 protein structures which, according to the criteria of pGenTHREADER (CITATION), are certain to have similar folds. Structural alignment of several of these proteins using the Matchmaker tool of UCSF Chimera (CITATION) demonstrated that there was considerable conservation of the location of most of the structural elements of the protein family. Variability in structure occurred mainly in the loops, especially in those residues corresponding to 100 to 118 in IMPL2. The two structures chosen as models were SuhB: the inositol monophosphatase and extragenic suppressor from E. coli (2qfl) and the inositol-1(or 4)-monophosphatase (A-chain) from Bos taurus (2bji). IMPL2 has sequence identities of 24.8% and 20.4% to 2qfl and 2bji, respectively. The pGenTHREADER generated alignment of IMPL2 with these two proteins was slightly modified to ensure that gaps were inserted in the most appropriate loops (Supplemental Fig. S2), and used to produce a homology model using MODELLER (CITATION; Fig. 3). The molecule has a α β α β α layered structure and a pronounced active site cleft in which are situated three Mg2+ ions held in position by carboxylate groups of Glu and Asp residues located on loops at the side of the six-stranded sheet, and on one of the central helices (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] Gly-195 is located in the third β -strand (191–198) of the six-stranded sheet and is in close contact with one of the central α -helices (287–298; Fig. 3). The location of this helix determines the position of Asp-288, which forms a salt bridge to one of the active site Mg2+ ions. Gly-195 is strongly conserved in the IMP superfamily, and the only other residue tolerated at this position is Ala, which is found in 2qfl. Replacement of Gly-195 with an Arg using SCWRL4 (CITATION) resulted in severe clashes with Pro-265. Since SCWRL4 searches for an optimum packing of side chains without moving the protein backbone we conclude that it is impossible to accommodate an Arg residue at this position without separating the β -strand (191–198) and the α -helix (287–298) by at least 3Å. Such a separation would alter the relative locations of the key active site residues: Asp-289, Glu-147, Asp-165, and Asp-168. The latter three amino acids are located on other strands in the β -sheet. This, in turn, would disrupt the active site and account for the observed inactivity of the mutant IMPL2 protein. Homozygosity for null alleles of any of the four nonredundant genes in the His biosynthetic pathway (see Fig. 1) results in embryonic lethality in Arabidopsis (CITATION). If IMPL2 was the only protein with HPP activity in Arabidopsis, this phenotype should also be observed in impl2 T-DNA insertion lines. Two T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre, SAIL_146_E09 (impl2-1) and SALK_076930 (impl2-2; Fig. 4). Both impl2-1 and impl2-2 were supplied as segregating lines and PCR genotyping of 115 plants failed to identify a single homozygous individual in either line, consistent with homozygous lethality for null mutations in IMPL2. Instead χ2 analysis revealed no significant difference from a ratio of two heterozygous to one wild-type plant in either line (Table I). [[FIGURE]] χ2 tests were used to determine whether the ratio of heterozygous to wild-type individuals was significantly different from 2:1. To determine the developmental stage at which lethality occurs, we examined the siliques of heterozygous plants following self-pollination. Approximately a quarter of the seeds in these siliques were observed to have aborted prior to the late globular stage of development (when embryos begin to turn green), in both the impl2-1 and impl2-2 insertion lines (Fig. 5; Table II). Thus lethality of the null impl2 mutants occurred during embryo development, as previously reported for other single copy HISN genes (CITATION). In contrast to several of the nonredundant HISN genes analyzed by CITATION, χ2 analysis revealed no significant difference from a ratio of three wild-type to one mutant seed, and thus no evidence of reduced transmission of impl2 mutant pollen tubes. [[FIGURE]] Het, Heterozygote; Wt, wild type. The supply of exogenous His to heterozygous plants can partially rescue the embryonic lethality of null hisn mutant seeds (CITATION). To determine whether His supplementation could rescue the embryonic lethality phenotype in the impl2 mutants, we first identified heterozygous plants by PCR, and determined the frequency of seed abortion in siliques from the primary bolt. The primary bolt was then removed and the plants supplied with 1 mm His daily (added to the roots). Application of His resulted in a reduced frequency of seed abortion in the secondary bolts (compared to that observed in the primary bolts prior to the supply of His); from 24.1% to 12.1% in impl2-1 and 27.5% to 17.8% in impl2-2. No such decrease was observed in plants supplied only with water (Fig. 6A). In an alternative experimental approach, 1 mm His was supplied to heterozygous plants identified by PCR prior to bolting, and siliques from the primary bolt analyzed 20 d after feeding began. The percentage of aborted seeds in siliques from plants supplied with His was significantly lower than that of control plants (Fig. 6B), and the majority of these plants contained several siliques with no aborted seeds. [[FIGURE]] Together, these data suggest that the embryonic lethality phenotype of impl2 null mutants is a consequence of their inability to synthesize His, and that there is no apparent genetic redundancy in the capacity for histidinol biosynthesis in Arabidopsis, at least in the developing embryo. RNA gel-blot and microarray analyses of known HISN genes from Arabidopsis has demonstrated that they are constitutively expressed in all plant tissues, and at all developmental stages (CITATION; CITATION). We analyzed the temporal and spatial expression patterns of IMPL2 across multiple microarray expression profiling experiments using Genevestigator V3 (Hruz et al., 2008). IMPL2 displayed a similar pattern of expression to other known HISN genes (Supplemental Fig. S3, A and B); IMPL2 transcripts were detected in all tissues and throughout development, and mRNA levels were lowest in pollen, as previously reported for all other HISN genes by CITATION. All of the His biosynthetic enzymes identified to date from plants contain a putative N-terminal plastid transit peptide (CITATION), and two proteins (IGPD and HDH) have been immunolocalized to this organelle (CITATION; CITATION). To demonstrate conclusively that the Arabidopsis HPP (IMPL2) is also targeted to the plastid in planta, we generated two C-terminal GFP fusion proteins; the first a full-length IMPL2 protein fused to GFP (IMPL2:GFP) and the second a truncated IMPL2 lacking the first 60 amino acids predicted to act as the plastid transit peptide by ChloroP (CITATION) fused to GFP (IMPL2Δ 1–60:GFP). Confocal imaging of maize (Zea mays) leaf protoplasts transiently expressing these proteins revealed that IMPL2:GFP was targeted to the chloroplast, as evidenced by the colocalization of GFP signal and chlorophyll autofluoresence (Fig. 7). In contrast, the truncated IMPL2Δ 1–60:GFP protein remained in the cytoplasm (Fig. 7). Thus the 60 amino acid N-terminal sequence serves as a functional plastid transit peptide, and is required for transport into the chloroplast. [[FIGURE]] Querying the National Center for Biotechnology Information mRNA RefSeq database with the Arabidopsis VTC4, IMPL1, and IMPL2 cDNA sequences identified putative homologs of each gene in a range of monocot and dicot plants for which full genome sequence is available, as well as in the chlorophyte green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Phylogenetic analysis of the aligned IMP cDNA sequences, using the neighbor-joining method (rooted with the Arabidopsis SAL1 gene that encodes a 3 ′ ,5′-bisphosphate nucleotidase), revealed the existence of three well-supported clades (Fig. 8), with the orthologs from the various species showing greater sequence similarity than paralogs within the same species. The phylogenetic tree is consistent with the occurrence of two gene duplication events, with subsequent sequence divergence; the first duplication event giving rise to the IMPL2 clade, and the second to the IMPL1 and VTC4 clades. These gene duplication events apparently occurred prior to the divergence of the plant and green algal lineages from their last common ancestor, which has been dated at 1,000 million years ago (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants were grown on a 1:1 mix of peat (Jiffy Products International) and vermiculite in a controlled environment room with a photosynthetic flux of 60 to 80 μ mol m−2 s−1 under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 22°C and 55% relative humidity. Plants were fertilized with 0.14% (w/v) Phostrogen plant food (Bayer CropScience) 7 and 21 d postgermination. Two segregating T-DNA insertion knockout lines for At4g39120, SAIL_146_E09 (impl2-1), and SALK_076930 (impl2-2) were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Plants were genotyped using gene-specific primers in combination with the LB3 primer (5′-GAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3 ′) for impl2-1, or the LBb1.3 primer (5′-ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC-3 ′) for impl2-2. Gene-specific primers were as follows, impl2-1: left (5′-TGCTGTGAAGAAACAGAGCAG-3 ′) and right (5′-AGGAGAATGGCGAAGGAGTAG-3 ′) and impl2-2: left (5′-ATTATCAAACCGAACCGAACC-3 ′) and right (5′-AGCAATCAGCGTACCAAACAC-3 ′). Two PCR reactions were set up for each DNA sample, one with the gene-specific left and right primers, and a second with the left border primer and right primer, both at an annealing temperature of 60°C, and an extension time of 1 min. The exact position of the T-DNA insertions in these lines was determined by DNA sequencing of the PCR product generated using the left border and right primers, and was found to lie at the 5 ′ boundary of exon I (impl2-1) and 5 ′ boundary of exon II (impl2-2), respectively. The analysis of siliques for the presence of aborted seeds in heterozygous individuals was carried out as described in the tutorial section of the Seed Genes Project Web site (www.seedgenes.org). Rescue experiments were carried out by supplying 1 mm His (dissolved in water) daily to the roots of heterozygous plants prior to bolting. Siliques were analyzed 14 to 20 d after supplementation with His began. Following an initial round of PCR site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION) to remove an internal NdeI site, the IMPL2 open reading frame (ORF; minus putative plastid transit peptide sequence) was amplified by PCR using the primers IMPL2-F (5′-GCCATATGGCTTCAAACTCAAAAC-3 ′) and IMPL2-R (5′-GCTCTAGATCAATGCCACTCAAGTGAC-3 ′), and cloned into the conjugative and integrative expression vector pIJ8600 (CITATION) via the XbaI and NdeI sites in the multiple cloning site. A second construct containing the IMPL2 ORF (minus plastid transit peptide) with a Gly-195 to Arg-195 substitution was also generated by PCR site-directed mutagenesis. Two overlapping PCR products were amplified using IMPL2-F in combination with Arg-R (5′-TGATCAATCAGTCGTAGAATCG-3 ′) and IMPL2-R with Arg-F (5′-CGATTCTACGACTGATTGATCA-3 ′). The resulting products were used as the template in a second round of PCR with the IMPL2-F and IMPL2-R primers and the 760 bp PCR product cloned into pIJ8600 via the XbaI and NdeI sites. The IMPL1 ORF (minus putative plastid transit peptide sequence) was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-GCCATATGCTGTCTGAGGTTTCTGATCAG-3 ′ and 5′-GCGGATCCTTAAAGCTCTGTATGATAATC-3 ′ , and cloned into pIJ8600 via the BamHI and NdeI sites in the multiple cloning site. The pIJ8600 vectors were transformed into the methylation-deficient Escherichia coli ET12567 strain containing pUZ8002 that supplies transacting functions for the mobilization of ori-T containing plasmids (CITATION), and introduced into Streptomyces coelicolor strains by conjugation according to CITATION. The S. coelicolor strains used in this study were wild type (strain M145) and the HPP mutant (strain 316; pheA1, hisN, strA1, SCP2+) that requires supplementation with 50 μ g mL−1 His and 37 μ g mL−1 Phe for growth on minimal media (CITATION). The full-length IMPL2 ORF was amplified by PCR using the primers GFP-F (5′-ATGCGTCGACATGTTAGCTCAGTCGCACTTC-3 ′) and GFP-R (5′-ATTTGCGGCCGCGAATGCCACTCAAGTGACTCCA-3 ′), and the ORF minus putative plastid transit peptide sequence (IMPL2Δ 1–60) with the primers GFP-CTP (5′-ATGCGTCGACATGGCTTCAAACTCAAAACG-3 ′) and GFP-R. The amplified sequences were cloned into the Gateway pENTR1A vector (Invitrogen, www.invitrogen.com) via the SalI and NotI sites, and then recombined into binary GATEWAY destination vector pK7FWG2.0 (CITATION). Protoplasts were isolated from 0.3 g of leaf tissue from maize (Zea mays) plants grown under standard growth conditions for 9 d, followed by 2 d in continuous darkness according to the protocol of CITATION. Polyethylene glycol calcium-mediated transfection of 1 × 104 protoplasts with 10 μ g of plasmid DNA was carried out as described by CITATION. Imaging was carried out using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope, with an LD C-Apochromat 40 × /1.1 W M27 objective. GFP was excited at 488 nm and emission detected in the 500 to 520 nm range. Chlorophyll autoflouresence was detected in the 575 to 600 nm range. Homologs to IMPL2 (excluding the N-terminal 60 amino acid plastid transit peptide sequence) were found in the Protein Data Bank using pGenTHREADER (CITATION). The alignment generated by pGenTHREADER was used as the basis for the construction of a homology model using MODELLER (CITATION). Several iterations were necessary to ensure that insertions and deletions were appropriately placed in the loops connecting the secondary structural elements (Supplemental Fig. S2). Side chains were placed using SCWRL4 (CITATION). Molecular graphics images were produced using the UCSF Chimera package from the Resource for Biocomputing, Visualization, and Informatics at the University of California, San Francisco (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NP_001118558, NP_195623, and NP_564376. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Sequence alignment of Arabidopsis IMPL1, IMPL2, and VTC4 proteins with known HPP enzymes from Corynebacterium glutamicum and S. coelicolor. Supplemental Figure S2. pGenTHREADER alignment used to generate homology model of IMPL2. Supplemental Figure S3. Expression patterns of VTC4, IMPL1, and VTC4 in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Table S1. Top 10 genes showing the strongest positive correlation with IMPL2 expression across 322 publicly available microarray datasets.
