!~ABS~! Light is the ultimate source of energy for photosynthesis; however, excessive light leads to photooxidative damage and hence reduced photosynthetic efficiency, especially when combined with other abiotic stresses. Although the photosystem II (PSII) reaction center D1 protein is the primary target of photooxidative damage, other PSII core proteins are also damaged and degraded. However, it is still largely unknown whether degradation of D1 and other PSII proteins involves previously uncharacterized proteases. Here, we show that Deg7 is peripherally associated with the stromal side of the thylakoid membranes and that Deg7 interacts directly with PSII. Our results show that Deg7 is involved in the primary cleavage of photodamaged D1, D2, CP47, and CP43 and that this activity is essential for its function in PSII repair. The double mutants deg5 deg7 and deg8 deg7 showed no obvious phenotypic differences under normal growth conditions, but additive effects were observed under high light. These results suggest that Deg proteases on both the stromal and luminal sides of the thylakoid membranes are important for the efficient PSII repair in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana).
!~RES~! Deg7 was predicted to be located in chloroplasts by LOCtree. To determine the subcellular localization, the N-terminal 243 amino acids of Deg7 were fused to the N terminus of the synthetic GFP under the control of the 35S promoter with a S65T mutation. The Deg7-GFP fusion proteins were transiently expressed in protoplasts, and GFP fluorescence of Deg7-GFP fusion proteins was colocalized with the chloroplastic chlorophyll, which is consistent with the signals observed when the GFP was fused to the transit peptide of FtsH11 (CITATION). When the targeting signals of the fibrillarin and FRO1 proteins from Arabidopsis were fused to GFP (CITATION), GFP signals were located in the nucleus and mitochondria, respectively (Supplemental Fig. S1). Thus, these results indicate that Deg7 is targeted to the chloroplast. Next, intact chloroplasts were isolated, separated into chloroplast stroma and thylakoid membrane fractions, and then subjected to immunoblot analysis with a specific antibody against Deg7. The purity of chloroplasts was confirmed by immunoblot analysis using the antibodies against the nuclear histone H1 protein, the mitochondrial NDUFS1 protein, the cytosolic DHAR2 protein, and the thylakoid membrane protein LHCII (Supplemental Fig. S2). The identities of the different fractions were further verified by immunoblot analyses with the antibodies against the thylakoid membrane protein LHCII, the peripheral protein Deg2, and the stromal protein RbcL (Fig. 1A). To determine the localization of Deg7, polyclonal antiserum was raised and immunoblot analysis of chloroplast protein showed the specificity of the Deg7 antibody (Supplemental Fig. S3). We found that Deg7 is located in chloroplasts and that the majority of Deg7 is present in chloroplast stromal fractions (Fig. 1A). To further investigate whether Deg7 is a peripheral or an intrinsic membrane protein, the thylakoid membranes were incubated with trypsin. Protease digestion assays showed that Deg7 could be degraded by trypsin, while the lumen protein PsbO was protected from trypsin treatment (Fig. 1B). These results indicate that the Deg7 protein is a chloroplast stroma protein and is associated with the membranes. Next, to examine the strength of Deg7's membrane association, we treated the thylakoid membranes with salts and chaotropic agents. Washing the membranes with 0.25 m NaCl did not release the Deg7 from the membranes, but Deg7 was barely detectable after washing the membranes with 0.2 m Na2CO3, 1 m CaCl2, or 6 m urea. As a control, we found that the integral membrane protein CP47 was not released from the membranes by such treatments. High-light treatment increased the amount of Deg7 associated with the thylakoid membranes, and the levels of Deg7 in the stromal fractions remained almost unchanged after exposure to high-light treatment (Fig. 1C). This may reflect an increased expression of Deg7 after high-light treatment. [[FIGURE]] The increased association of Deg7 with the membranes suggested that it might function in the degradation of photosynthetic proteins. To examine the proteolytic activity of the recombinant His-tagged Deg7, we incubated it with a mixture of α -, β -, and κ -forms of casein. β -Casein is the preferred substrate for assaying bacterial DegP activity under in vitro conditions (CITATION). β -Casein was efficiently degraded by the fractions containing overexpressed Deg7, and the α - and κ -forms remained unchanged under our experimental conditions (Supplemental Fig. S4). More than 50% of the β -casein was degraded within the first 30 min. These results indicated that the recombinant Deg7 was proteolytically active. Next, we examined whether Deg7 is proteolytically active toward photosynthetic proteins. Since the DegP protease has been shown to degrade damaged or misfolded proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the thylakoid membranes used in this experiment were first subjected to high-light treatment (1,800 μ mol m−2 s−1) for 90 min at 0°C. Treatment with high light causes irreversible oxidative protein damage, which subsequently induces conformational changes in proteins, making them vulnerable to proteolytic degradation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The thylakoid membranes isolated from leaves exposed to high light were treated with 50 mmol EDTA to inhibit the endogenous FtsH proteases. They were then incubated with or without recombinant Deg7 in the dark at 37°C. In the absence of recombinant Deg7, the D1, D2, CP43, and CP47 protein levels remained unchanged and no degradation products were detected (Fig. 2A). However, when recombinant Deg7 was added to isolated thylakoid membranes, the amounts of full-length D1, D2, CP43, and CP47 proteins decreased with time, and polypeptides of 20 kD for D1, 29 kD for D2, 19 kD for CP43, and 19 kD for CP47 were immunodetected using antibodies raised against the DE loop of the D1 protein, D2 protein, CP43 protein, and CP47 protein, respectively (Fig. 2A). Immunoblot analysis with anti-Cyt f, anti-LHCII, anti-CF1 β, and anti-PsaA/B antibodies showed that the levels of these proteins remained almost constant in the presence of recombinant Deg7 (Fig. 2A). When the thylakoid membranes were isolated from the plants that were not exposed to high-light treatment, the photosynthetic proteins were not degraded by recombinant Deg7 (Supplemental Fig. S5). The relative mole ratio of Deg7 and PSII was estimated to be about 1:10 using isolated PSII and anti-CP47 for calibration (data not shown), which showed a large excess of PSII over protease. [[FIGURE]] To determine the function of the PDZ domains in regulating the proteolytic activities of Deg7, we expressed a series of Deg7 proteases that contain zero to two PDZ domains in vitro (Supplemental Figs. S6–S8). Regardless of the presence of either one or two PDZ domains in the truncated Deg7 protein, the levels of PSII core proteins D1, D2, CP43, and CP47 decreased and the specific degradation fragments of their corresponding proteins were not detected. When the truncated Deg7 without any PDZ domains was incubated with the thylakoid membranes, the amounts of not only PSII core proteins D1, D2, CP43, and CP47 but also LHCII, PsaA/B, Cyt f, and CF1 β were reduced. The proteolytic activity of Deg7 toward PSII core proteins suggests that Deg7 is associated with PSII. To test this possibility, the thylakoid protein complexes separated on a blue native gel were further subjected to denaturing SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using specific antibodies. Our results showed that the Deg7 protein and PSII complex comigrated on the gel (Supplemental Fig. S9). Next, pull-down experiments were performed with recombinant Deg7 fused to an N-terminal His tag. The purified His-Deg7 fusion protein was incubated with n-dodecyl β -d-maltoside (DM)-solubilized thylakoid membranes. After washing nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Ni-NTA) resin with buffer, the bound proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and examined by immunoblot analysis (Fig. 3). The PSII proteins D1, D2, and CP47 were detected when the His-Deg7 fusion protein was used in the assay. In contrast, the PSI protein PsaA/B, the Cyt b6f protein Cyt f, and the ATP synthase protein CF1 β were not detected when the solubilized thylakoid membrane and the resin were incubated in the presence or absence of His-Deg7 (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] To study the in vivo function of Deg7, we obtained Arabidopsis lines from the SALK collection. The deg7 mutant line (SALK_075584) contains a T-DNA insertion within the 1,417-bp sequence downstream of the ATG codon, and this was confirmed by PCR and subsequent sequencing of the amplified products (Supplemental Fig. S10, A and B). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis showed that expression of the Deg7 gene was not detectable (Supplemental Fig. S10C). Further immunoblot analyses revealed that Deg7 protein was not detectable in the deg7 mutant and that the levels of Deg7 in the complemented plants were comparable to those in the wild-type plants (Supplemental Fig. S10D). When grown under 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 light, the growth rates of the deg7 mutants were comparable to those of the wild type (Fig. 4A). Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis showed that the maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) was similar between the deg7 plants (0.82 ± 0.02) and wild-type plants (0.83 ± 0.01). [[FIGURE]] To examine the steady-state levels of thylakoid proteins, immunoblot analyses were performed with antibodies raised against specific subunits of the photosynthetic protein complexes (Supplemental Fig. S11). Our results showed that levels of the thylakoid proteins, including D1, D2, LHCII, PsbO, and CP43 of PSII, PsaA/B of PSI, Cyt f of the Cyt b6f complex, and CF1 β of ATP synthase, were not altered in the deg7 mutant. The levels of Deg1, Deg5, Deg8, and FtsH were also not changed in the mutant. To determine whether Deg7 is involved in photoinhibition and repair processes, the Fv/Fm was measured in the wild-type and deg7 plants under high-light illumination (1,800 μ mol m−2 s−1). In the absence of lincomycin, within 2 h of illumination at a light intensity of 1,800 μ mol m−2 s−1, Fv/Fm declined in the wild-type and mutant leaves to about 53% and 39%, respectively, of the dark-adapted values (Fig. 5A). These results clearly demonstrate the increased photosensitivity of the mutants. In the presence of lincomycin, the decline of Fv/Fm in the wild-type leaves was more rapid and continued until Fv/Fm values approached about 10% of the dark-adapted values (Fig. 5A). Interestingly, in the presence of lincomycin, the decline in Fv/Fm in the deg7 mutants was similar to that observed in the wild-type leaves during the same photoinhibitory light treatment (Fig. 5A). Since lincomycin blocks the repair of PSII by inhibiting de novo protein synthesis in the chloroplast, these results suggest that the wild-type and mutant leaves display similar rates of PSII photoinhibition. [[FIGURE]] To establish whether the high susceptibility of the deg7 mutants to photoinhibition is related to PSII protein turnover, we analyzed the PSII protein contents of the thylakoid membranes in the wild-type and mutant plants under high-light illumination in the presence of lincomycin. Under high-light illumination and in the presence of this inhibitor, the levels of the PSII proteins D1, D2, CP43, and CP47 gradually declined in the deg7 and wild-type plants, but the rate of reduction was slower in the mutant (Fig. 5B). The levels of PsbO, another PSII protein, and the PSI protein PsaA/B were found to be relatively stable in both the wild-type and mutant plants. Next, we performed an in vivo labeling experiment to follow the turnover of newly synthesized chloroplast proteins (Fig. 5C). Our results showed that the synthesis rates of the PSII core proteins D1, D2, CP47, and CP43, the PSI reaction center proteins PsaA/B, and the ATP synthase CF1 α / β were similar between the wild-type and mutant plants. The PSII core proteins D1, D2, CP47, and CP43 showed increased stability in the mutant compared with the wild-type plants. The protein synthesis rates in pulse labeling for 20 min reflect the differences between the synthesis and degradation rates of photosynthetic proteins. Thus, the net synthesis rate of PSII reaction center protein D1 in the mutant was lower than that of the wild type, since the rate of D1 degradation was slowed in deg7. To further analyze the physiological function of Deg7, photoinhibition was carried out with isolated thylakoid membranes to which 50 mmol EDTA had been added in order to inactivate the endogenous FtsH proteases. We found that the 20-kD polypeptide of D1, the 29-kD polypeptide of D2, the 19-kD polypeptide of CP43, and the 19-kD polypeptide of CP47 were detected in the samples from wild-type plants following photoinhibition but not in samples from the deg7 mutant. An 18-kD polypeptide from D1 was detected both in the wild-type and mutant plants (Fig. 2B), which may be due to the function of lumen-localized Deg5 and Deg8 (CITATION). Since Deg7 is involved in protection against photoinhibition, we analyzed the phenotypes of the mutants during growth under high irradiance. For this purpose, we transferred the wild-type and deg7 mutant plants that were grown initially at 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 to a greenhouse with a maximum intensity of 1,000 μ mol m−2 s−1 at noon. Our results showed that when exposed to high light, the growth of the deg7 mutant was inhibited compared with the wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). Three double mutants were constructed, deg2 deg7, deg5 deg7, and deg8 deg7, to test the physiological importance of stromal and luminal Deg proteases in photosynthesis. The growth rates and PSII activities of deg2 deg7, deg5 deg7, and deg8 deg7 were comparable to those of wild-type plants when grown at 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 (Fig. 4A). However, when exposed to high light, the growth of the mutants was slower than that of the wild-type plants, and the extent of the phenotype in the deg5 deg7 and deg8 deg7 double mutants was more pronounced than in the single mutants, while that of deg2 deg7 was similar to that of the deg7 mutant (Fig. 4B). Moreover, some of the mutant leaves exhibited symptoms of yellowing in the deg5 deg7 and deg8 deg7 double mutants (Fig. 4B).
!~MM~! Wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were grown in soil under short-day conditions (10-h-light/14-h-dark cycles) with a photon flux density of 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 at a constant temperature of 22°C. The T-DNA insertion line SALK_075584 (Deg7; At3g03380) was obtained from the T-DNA-transformed Arabidopsis collection from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University). Homozygous deg7 mutant plants were identified by PCR analyses using the following gene-specific and T-DNA-specific primers: LP (5′-GGTACGTTCAGTGACACACCC-3′), RP (5′-CAAAGCTTTCTAGGGGTGCTC-3′), and T-DNA LB (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′). The precise location of the T-DNA insertion was determined by sequencing the PCR products. Confirmation of null mutants was carried out by RT-PCR using the same primer set described above for Deg7. Equal cDNA loading in each sample was monitored by RT-PCR analysis of the expression level of actin (5′-AACTGGGATGATATGGAGAA-3′ and 5′-CCTCCAATCCAGACACTGTA-3′). The double mutants deg2 deg7, deg5 deg7, and deg7 deg8 were obtained by PCR screening of an F2 population from crossed single mutant lines. The cDNA containing the coding region of Deg7 was amplified with the following primers, which include XhoI and KpnI restriction sites at their 5′ ends to facilitate cloning: sense primer (5′-GACCCGGGGGAGATCAAATGGGAGATCC-3′) and antisense primer (5′-GGGGTACCTTACTGCAAGGCTTTCAATATA-3′). The resulting fragment was cloned into the SamI and KpnI sites of pSN1301 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The plasmid pSN1301-Deg7 was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 via electroporation and introduced into the homozygous deg7 plants (CITATION). Transformant plants were selected on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salt mix, 50 μ g mL−1 hygromycin, and 0.8% agar. The resistant plants were transferred to soil to grow to maturity, and their transgenic status was further confirmed by PCR and immunoblot analyses. Detached mature leaves were floated adaxial side up on water and exposed to a photon flux density of 1,800 μ mol m−2 s−1, and chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a PAM-2000 fluorometer (Walz). The temperature of the water was kept at 22°C during photoinhibition treatments. Synthesis of chloroplast-encoded proteins was blocked by incubating detached leaves with their petioles submersed in 1 mm lincomycin solution at an irradiance of 20 μ mol m−2 s−1 for 3 h prior to photoinhibitory light treatment. To investigate the effects of high irradiance on plant growth, we transferred 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown in a growth chamber under a photon flux density of 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 to a greenhouse under sunlight illumination for another 2 weeks. In the greenhouse, the maximum photon flux density at noon was about 1,000 μ mol m−2 s−1 and average day/night temperatures were 25°C/22°C. Thylakoid membranes were isolated essentially as described by CITATION. Briefly, Arabidopsis leaves were homogenized by a mortar and pestle in an ice-cold isolation buffer (400 mm Suc, 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.8, 10 mm NaCl, and 2 mm MgCl2), filtered through two layers of cheesecloth, and centrifuged at 5,000g for 10 min. The thylakoid pellets were resuspended in the isolation buffer and then centrifuged at 5,000g for 10 min. The thylakoids were finally suspended in isolation buffer, and their chlorophyll levels were determined. The protein sample was mixed with the same volume of 2 × SDS sample buffer (125 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 20% [w/v] glycerol, 4% SDS, 5% β -mercaptoethanol, and 0.1% bromphenol blue) for 60 min and layered onto 15% SDS polyacrylamide gels containing 6 m urea (CITATION). After electrophoresis, gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. For immunoblot analysis, the proteins resolved by SDS-PAGE were blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and reacted with specific antibodies, and the signals were visualized with the enhanced chemiluminescence method. Primary antibodies used in this study were as follows: (1) a D1-specific antibody against the oligopeptide NYGYKFGQE containing the amino acids 234 to 242 in the DE loop of the D1 protein of Synechocystis species PCC 6803; (2) a D2-specific antibody against the oligopeptide NTFRAFNPTQAEETYS containing the amino acids 231 to 246 in the DE loop of the D2 protein of Arabidopsis; (3) an anti-peptide antibody specific for E. coli FtsH, which is potentially cross-reactive with all Synechocystis species PCC 6803 FtsH homologs; (4) a Cyt f antibody raised against the amino acids 146 to 257 in the Cyt f protein of Arabidopsis; (5) a CF1 β antibody raised against the amino acids 206 to 387 in the CF1 β protein of Arabidopsis; (6) a PsaA/B antiserum raised against the amino acids 3 to 77 in the N terminus of the PsaA protein of Arabidopsis; (7) a CP43 antibody raised against the amino acids 330 to 449 in the C terminus of the CP43 protein of Arabidopsis; (8) a CP47 antibody raised against the amino acids 330 to 475 in the C terminus of the CP47 protein of Arabidopsis; (9) a LHCII antibody raised against the amino acids 25 to 154 in the LHCB3 protein of Arabidopsis; (10) a Deg1 antibody raised against the amino acids 315 to 436 in the C terminus of the Deg1 protein of Arabidopsis; (11) a Deg5 antibody raised against the amino acids 91 to 211 in the N terminus of the Deg5 protein of Arabidopsis; and (12) a Deg8 antibody raised against the amino acids 297 to 423 in the C terminus of the Deg8 protein of Arabidopsis. The His-Deg7 fusion protein was purified on a Ni-NTA resin matrix, and polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbit with the purified antigens. The intracellular localization of Deg7 was determined essentially according to CITATION. The Arabidopsis membranes were suspended to a final concentration of 50 mg chlorophyll mL−1 in 10 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, 10 mm MgCl2, 330 mm sorbitol, and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride supplemented with 250 mm NaCl, 200 mm Na2CO3, 1 m CaCl2, 6 m urea, and 0.05% Triton X-100 at 0°C for 30 min or 0.05 mg mL−1 trypsin at 25°C for 30 min. Membrane fractions without supplements were used as a control. After treatment, the membranes were pelleted at 100,000g for 2 h at 4°C, quickly washed with isolation buffer, and used for SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. Full-length Deg7 cDNA was cloned into the pET28a plasmid and transformed into BL21 cells. The expression of the His-Deg7 fusion protein was induced by isopropylthio- β -d-galactoside (0.4 mm) for 2 h, and the overexpressed protein was purified using a Ni-NTA resin matrix. The purified protein was renatured through a Sephadex G-75 column by eluting with 20 mm NaH2PO4, pH 7.8, buffer, and the identity of the protein was confirmed by immunoblot analyses with specific antibodies. For protein pull-down assays, thylakoid membranes (100 μ g of chlorophyll) were solubilized with 1% (w/v) DM in 20% (w/v) glycerol, 25 mm BisTris-HCl, pH 7.0, and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride for 15 min at 4°C, then centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min. The supernatant obtained after centrifugation was incubated with His-Deg7 coupled to Ni-NTA resin. After incubation overnight with constant rotation at 4°C, the beads were washed five times with 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 100 mm NaCl, and 1 mm EDTA buffer, and the bound proteins were eluted with SDS-PAGE sample buffer. The eluted proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE followed by immunoblot analyses. The proteolytic activity was assayed by incubating Deg7 with 15- μ g mixtures of casein (α -, β -, and κ -casein; Sigma-Aldrich) in standard reaction mixtures including 0.5 μ g of purified Deg7 in a 30- μ L solution containing 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6. The mixtures were incubated for 0, 15, 30, 45, and 60 min at 37°C, separated by SDS-PAGE, and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. For the in vitro degradation assay, wild-type Arabidopsis thylakoid membranes were illuminated at 1,800 μ mol m−2 s−1 for 90 min at 4°C and centrifuged at 15,000g for 15 min. The collected thylakoids were washed with 1.0 m CaCl2 to reduce endogenous Deg7 activity before the addition of recombinant Deg7 or its derivatives and resuspended in 300 mm sorbitol and 10 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0. After incubation of purified recombinant Deg7 protein with the thylakoid membranes at 37°C in the dark for various amounts of time, the samples were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analyses. In vivo chloroplast protein labeling was carried out essentially according to CITATION. Leaves of 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants were preincubated for 30 min in the presence of 20 μ g mL−1 cycloheximide, which blocks the synthesis of nucleus-encoded proteins. Then, the leaves were radiolabeled with 1 μ Ci μ L−1 [35S]Met (specific activity > 1,000 Ci mmol−1; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) at 120 μ mol m−2 s−1 in the presence of 20 μ g mL−1 cycloheximide for 20 min at 22°C, followed by a chase of 1 or 4 h in buffer containing 10 mm cold Met. Afterward, the leaves were collected, the thylakoid membranes were isolated, and the proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE. For autoradiography, gels were stained, dried, and exposed to x-ray film. A fragment encoding the N-terminal amino acids 1 to 243 of Deg7 was amplified by PCR using the following primers: 5′-GCGTCGACATGGGAGATCCGTTGGAGAG-3′ and 5′-GGCCATGGTTAACGCCCTAACAACTCG-3′. The PCR product was cloned into the SalI and NcoI sites of expression vector pUC18-35S-sGFP to generate a fusion protein with the GFP as a reporter in the C terminus. The transit peptide (amino acids 1–245) of the FtsH11, the N-terminal part (amino acids 1–282) of AtFbr1, and the entire coding region of FRO1 were used as chloroplast, nuclear, and mitochondrial controls, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Isolation of the Arabidopsis protoplast and polyethylene glycol-mediated transfection were performed as described by CITATION. The cells with GFP signals were examined using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510; Carl Zeiss). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At3g03380 (DEG7). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Subcellular localization of the Deg7 protein. Supplemental Figure S2. Immunoblot analysis of the purity of isolated chloroplasts. Supplemental Figure S3. Immunoblot analysis of chloroplast proteins with the specific Deg7 antibody. Supplemental Figure S4. Engineering of the Deg7 deletion construct and proteolytic activity of Deg7 with β -casein. Supplemental Figure S5. Degradation of photosynthetic proteins by a recombinant Deg7 protein. Supplemental Figure S6. Degradation of photodamaged PSII proteins by a recombinant Deg7 protein containing two PDZ domains. Supplemental Figure S7. Degradation of photodamaged PSII proteins by a recombinant Deg7 protein containing one PDZ domain. Supplemental Figure S8. Degradation of photodamaged PSII proteins by a recombinant Deg7 protein lacking PDZ domains. Supplemental Figure S9. Immunoblot analysis of the association of Deg7 with photosynthetic protein complexes after blue native/SDS-PAGE. Supplemental Figure S10. Identification of the deg7 mutant. Supplemental Figure S11. Analysis of thylakoid proteins from deg7 mutant and wild-type plants. Supplemental Figure S12. Changes in Fv/Fm of wild-type, deg7, deg2 deg7, and ftsh2 plants following high-light illumination.
