!~ABS~! The structures of the pectic polysaccharide rhamnogalacturonan II (RG-II) pectin constituent are remarkably evolutionary conserved in all plant species. At least 12 different glycosyl residues are present in RG-II. Among them is the seldom eight-carbon sugar 3-deoxy-d-manno-octulosonic acid (Kdo) whose biosynthetic pathway has been shown to be conserved between plants and Gram-negative bacteria. Kdo is formed in the cytosol by the condensation of phosphoenol pyruvate with d-arabinose-5-P and then activated by coupling to cytidine monophosphate (CMP) prior to its incorporation in the Golgi apparatus by a Kdo transferase (KDTA) into the nascent polysaccharide RG-II. To gain new insight into RG-II biosynthesis and function, we isolated and characterized null mutants for the unique putative KDTA (AtKDTA) encoded in the Arabidopsis genome. We provide evidence that, in contrast to mutants affecting the RG-II biosynthesis, the extinction of the AtKDTA gene expression does not result in any developmental phenotype in the AtkdtA plants. Furthermore, the structure of RG-II from the null mutants was not altered and contained wild-type amount of Rha-α(1-5)Kdo side chain. The cellular localization of AtKDTA was investigated by using laser scanning confocal imaging of the protein fused to green fluorescent protein. In agreement with its cellular prediction, the fusion protein was demonstrated to be targeted to the mitochondria. These data, together with data deduced from sequence analyses of higher plant genomes, suggest that AtKDTA encodes a putative KDTA involved in the synthesis of a mitochondrial not yet identified lipid A-like molecule rather than in the synthesis of the cell wall RG-II.
!~RES~! Chromosome V of A.thaliana harbors a genomic sequence (At5g03770) that could encode a KDTA protein referred to as AtKDTA, as revealed by basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) searches using the E.coli KDTA (CITATION) as a query sequence. Full-length sequences for plant KDTA proteins were also identified in Oryza sativa (EEE55697.1), Medicago truncatula (ABE80128.2), Vitisvinifera (CAO15996.1), Populus trichocarpa (EEF04661.1), Ricinus communis (EEF33745.1) and Zea mays (ACN31913.1) as well as in the moss Physcomitrella patens (PHYPADRAFT 109233). The predicted translation products of these plant KDTA genes display significant amino acid identity percentage with various KDTA sequences of prokaryotic organisms (CAZy GT30, http://www.cazy.org; CITATION) which all belong to the Gram-negative bacterial family. Despite these sequence similarities with the bacterial enzymes, the plant proteins represent a distinct lineage, which could be clearly separated from the Gram-negative bacterial proteins as seen in the phylogenetic tree (Figure 2). The amino acid sequence alignment of plant putative KDTA (Figure 3) indicates that AtKDTA shares from 48 to 67% of identity with other plant KDTA sequences. Sequence identity with the Gram-negative bacterial KDTA varies from 15 to 35%. The best rates were observed for rhizobial species with 31–35% of identity and 50–55% of similarity between plant and bacterial KDTA sequences supporting a direct homology between plant and rhizobial sequences (Figure 2). The A.thaliana putative KDTA is composed of 447 amino acids (Mr = 49871, pI = 9.96) and displays the two identified Pfam domains, Glyco_transf_N (PF04413) from residue 36 to 221 and Glyco_transf_1 (PF00534) from residue 242 to 415, of KDTA protein (http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/; CITATION). The prediction of the 3D structure of AtKDTA (Q8VZA5 entry of ModBase, http://modbase.compbio.ucsf.edu; CITATION) indicated that the protein is composed of two Rossman fold protein domains as reported for GT-B fold of glycosyltransferases (CITATION). Sequence alignments revealed the presence of highly conserved protein motifs within both plant and bacterial KDTA (Figure 3). Although no data are available on amino acids involved in substrate recognition and CMP-Kdo recognition in bacterial KDTA, these motifs may be crucial for transferase activities in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic proteins. Among these, the two conserved sequences W58–G66 and G345–E350 could be involved in the binding of CMP-Kdo onto the KDTAs since these motifs were shown to be implicated in the CMP-Kdo binding site in CMP-Kdo synthases (CITATION). Furthermore, the asparagine residue (R279 in the Arabidopis sequence) of the conserved PR sequence was demonstrated to be required for the transfer of Kdo onto lipid A in bacteria (Figure 3) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the expression of the genes involved in the Kdo biosynthetic pathway in Arabidopsis: AtKDSA1 and AtKDSA2 encoding the two isoforms of Kdo-8-P synthase (CITATION), AtKBSB encoding the CMP-Kdo synthetase and AtKDTA encoding the putative KDTA. The expression analysis was performed using total RNAs extracted from mature flowers, stems, immature and mature leaves from wild-type Col0 plants. Results of transcript copy number estimations with real time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) are presented in Figure 4. All four genes were preferentially expressed in flowers and in immature leaves, i.e. in plant organs displaying cell division activities. This expression profile is in agreement with our previous work showing that the AtKDSA2 promoter is strongly activated in shoot apical meristem, first rosette leaves and flowers (CITATION), and that the tomato kdsA gene expression and relevant Kdo-8-P synthase activity are preferentially associated with dividing cells in a cell cycle-dependent manner (CITATION). To a lesser extent, the expression of AtKDSA1, AtKDSA2, AtKBSB and AtKDTA was also detected in stems and mature leaves. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We obtained two AtKDTA T-DNA insertion lines from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (SALK_035981 and GABI_140B12) designated as AtkdtA1 and AtkdtA2, respectively. The T-DNA insertion site of AtkdtA1 is illustrated in Figure 5A; it disrupts the AtKDTA gene within intron 7. This was confirmed by PCR analyses using genomic DNA as compared to control wild-type Col0 plants (not shown). RT-PCR analyses of T4 homozygous AtkdtA1 plants confirmed that AtkdtA1 is a null allele (Figure 5B). Identical results were obtained with AtkdtA2 mutant which is disrupted in exon 10 (Figure 5B). The general development and growth phenotype of AtkdtA null mutants appear to be similar to those of the wild-type Col0 plants (not shown). Thus under standard growth conditions and in contrast to mutants altered in the cytosolic biosynthesis of Kdo (CITATION; CITATION), the knock-out mutation of AtKDTA does not induce any apparent modifications of the plant phenotype. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Studying the biological function of the Arabidopsis putative KDTA is hardly achievable through an enzymatic assay since CMP-Kdo required for the bioassay is an unstable compound (CITATION). As a consequence, to determine whether this putative transferase is involved in the incorporation of Kdo into RG-II, we investigated the RG-II structure from the homozygous AtkdtA1 null mutant. Pectins were extracted from leaf material by treatment of an alcohol-insoluble fraction with endopolygalacturonase (EPG). RG-II was separated from RG-I and oligogalacturonides by size exclusion chromatography (SEC), and its sugar composition was determined by gas liquid chromatography. As shown in Table I, the sugar composition of the AtkdtA1 RG-II fraction was similar to that of RG-II from wild-type Arabidopsis plants, including the Kdo content which represented 3%. Dha was also clearly detected in the RG-II fraction, and its presence was confirmed by gas liquid chromatography coupled to electron impact mass spectrometry. This suggests that the putative transferase AtKDTA is not involved in the transfer of this Kdo structurally related residue. To further confirm the presence of Kdo in RG-II from AtkdtA1 null mutants, this pectic polymer was submitted to a mild acid hydrolysis, taking advantage that Kdo can be specifically cleaved from the oligogalacturonide backbone in mild acidic conditions (CITATION). The resulting Kdo-containing side chain was then selectively coupled to 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylene dioxybenzene (DMB) into fluorescent derivatives and analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) (CITATION). As illustrated in Figure 6A, a main peak was detected, collected and analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. The observed pseudomolecular ions were consistent with the presence of a DMB derivative of Rha-α(1-5)Kdo (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the structure of the side chains A and B of RG-II in AtkdtA1 mutant. Due to the presence of an acidic-labile apiose residue at their reducing end, the side chains A and B can also be specifically released by mild acidic hydrolysis of RG-II (CITATION). B and then A side chains were successively released from AtkdtA1 RG-II by treatment with 0.1 M trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) at 40°C (Figure 7A) and 80°C (Figure 7B) and structurally characterized by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). Molecular ions detected in the spectra were in agreement with the structure of A and B side chains and side chain fragments according to literature data (CITATION). Together, these findings demonstrate that the inactivation of AtKDTA does not result neither in the prevention of Kdo transfer into RG-II nor in any structural alteration of this pectic polymer. Therefore, the AtKDTA gene does not likely encode a KDTA involved in RG-II biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of Arabidopsis AtKDTA indicates that this protein is not predicted to be a type II protein as reported for Golgi glycosyltransferases. Prediction of its cellular localization using TargetP suggests that this putative transferase is targeted to the mitochondria. Similar predictions were obtained for other putative plant KDTA (O.sativa, M.truncatula, V.vinifera, P.trichocarpa, R.communis and Z.mays). To investigate the cellular localization of AtKDTA, this putative transferase was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves as a fusion protein to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and visualized using confocal microscopy. As shown in Figure 8A (green channel), 48 h after infiltration, the AtKDTA-GFP fusion protein was mainly located in mobile 1-μm dots. To identify the nature of these dots, we coexpressed AtKDTA-GFP with a Golgi marker, the ERD2-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fusion protein (CITATION) (Figure 8A). While the ERD2-CFP fusion protein accumulated in both endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, the AtKDTA-GFP fusion protein appeared in dots that are clearly distinct from Golgi bodies. To determine whether the AtKDTA-GFP-labeled structures are related to mitochondria, we used the MitoTracker® orange to specifically stain these organelles. MitoTracker® orange is a mitochondrion-selective dye that enters the cells and is sequestered in the mitochondria where it reacts with thiols on proteins to form a fluorescent conjugate. Figure 8B shows a cell expressing the AtKDTA-GFP construct whose mitochondria are labeled with MitoTracker®. Mitochondria appear as dot structures of 1-μm diameter that are highly mobile. AtKDTA-GFP accumulated in the same dots as MitoTracker® and showed a ring-like labeling surrounding the mitochondria (arrow in Figure 8B). Additional localization experiments were carried out on tobacco mesophyll cells that contain chloroplasts. No colocalization of AtKDTA-GFP with chloroplasts was observed (not shown). Together these data demonstrate that, under our labeling conditions, the fusion protein AtKDTA-GFP is localized in the mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild-type and AtkdtA mutant plants of A.thaliana are in the Columbia (Col0) ecotype background. For germination, seeds were surface sterilized for 15 min in 12.5% (v/v) sodium hypochlorite and 0.02% (v/v) Triton X-100, rinsed at least five times and plated in Petri plates containing Murashige and Skoog's growth medium (CITATION). After cold treatment at 4°C for 2 days in the dark, the plates were incubated in a growth chamber at 22°C in a cycle of 16-h light/8-h darkness. After 10 days of growth the plantlets were transferred in soil in a growth chamber in the same conditions. The phylogenetic analysis and drawing of the KDTA multiple alignments were performed on the phylogeny.fr server (http://www.phylogeny.fr; CITATION) with the PhyML program (CITATION; CITATION) after blocks selection using Gblocks (CITATION). The phylogenetic tree was drawn with TreeDyn (CITATION). The multiple KDTA sequences alignment used for phylogenetic analysis was generated by the multAlin program (http://bioinfo.genotoul.fr/multalin; CITATION). Accession numbers and abbreviations for the different protein sequences are as follows: Aquifex aeolicus, AaKDTA, aq_326; Acidobacteria bacterium, AbKDTA, Acid345_4718; Anaeromyxobacter dehalogenans, AdKDTA, Adeh_2615; Arabidopsis thaliana, AtKDTA, Q8VZA5; Agrobacterium tumefaciens, AtuKDTA, Atu0695; Brucella melitensis, BmKDTA, BMEII1029; Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, BtKDTA, BT_2747; Caulobacter crescentus, CcKDTA, CC_0302; Chlorobaculum tepidum, CteKDTA, CT0593; Chlamydia trachomatis, CtrKDTA, CT208; Escherichia coli, EcKDTA, b3633; Fusobacterium nucleatum, FnKDTA, FN1606; Geobacter sulfurreducens, GsKDTA, GSU2259; Haemophilus influenzae, HiKDTA, HI0652; Helicobacter pylori, HpKDTA, HP0957; Leptospira interrogans, LiKDTA, LA1477; Legionella pneumophila Paris, LpKDTA, lpp2288; Mesorhizobium loti, MlKDTA, mlr8269; Medicago truncatula, MtKDTA, ABE80128.2; Neisseria meningitidis, NmKDTA, NMB0014; Oryza sativa, OsKDTA, EEE55697.1; Opitutus terrae, OtKDTA, Oter_2533; Pseudomonas aeruginosa, PaKDTA, PA4988; Physcomitrella patens, PpKDTA, PHYPADRAFT_109233; Populus trichocarpa, PtKDTA, EEF04661.1; Rhodopirellula baltica, RbKDTA, RB11688; Ricinus communis, RcKDTA, EEF33745.1; Rhizobium leguminosarum, RlKDTA, RL0902; Rickettsia prowazekii, RprKDTA, RP089; Rhodopseudomonas palustris, RpaKDTA, RPA1158; Ralstonia solanacearum, RsoKDTA, RSc0693; Rhodobacter sphaeroides, RspKDTA, RSP_2394; Sinorhizobium meliloti, SmKDTA, SMc00894; Vibrio cholerae, VcKDTA, VC0233; Vitis vinifera, VvKDTA, CAO15996.1; Xanthomonas campestris, XcKDTA, XCC3337; Yersinia pestis, YpKDTA, YPO0055; Zea mays, ZmKDTA, ACN31913.1. An extract of the multiple alignments presented in Figure 3 was rendered by the ESPript/ENDscript program (http://espript.ibcp.fr; CITATION). Putative cellular localization of the proteins was analyzed using TargetP program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP; CITATION). To isolate the homozygous AtkdtA1 null mutant, Arabidopsis genomic DNA was PCR amplified with the primers KdoTransf5′ (5′-TGTTGTCTGCTTTTTGTTCCA-3′) and KdoTransf3′ (5′-TTCGTCTTCCTTGGTGTAAGC-3′). PCR reactions were performed using the LBa1 primer (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′), located within the LB sequence of the T-DNA, and KdoTransf5′ or KdoTransf3′ primer in order to amplify the T-DNA junction. The use of primers KdoTransf5′ and KdoTransf3′ generates a 606 bp fragment of the AtKDTA genomic sequence. PCR reactions were performed with genomic DNA extracted as described by CITATION. Fifty nanograms of genomic DNA was used for each PCR with primer combinations KdoTransf5′–KdoTransf3′, KdoTransf5′–LBa1 or LBa1–KdoTransf3′. Same strategy was used for the isolation of the AtkdtA2 null mutant using the T-DNA primer GABI-T-DNA (5′-CCATTTGGACGTGAATGTAGACAC-3′), AtKDOTF2 (5′-GCCTCGTAGACTATCGTGTGG-3′) and AtKDOTR (5′-TTTGACTTGTCGAGCCATTTC-3′). Wild-type or AtkdtA seedlings grown under light conditions for 10–12 days were transferred to soil for growth and used for RNA analysis. Total RNA were isolated using the TRIzol® Reagent (Invitrogen) and were treated with DNase RQI (Promega, Charbonnières-les-bains, France) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Two micrograms of total RNA from plantlets was reverse transcribed into cDNA using oligo(dT)16 as a primer, SuperScript™ II RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) in a total volume of 20 μL. The cDNA was then diluted 10 times, and 1 μL of the diluted cDNA was used as a template for PCR analysis. PCR reactions were performed using AtKDOTF1 (5′-TCGCTTATCTGGTTTCACGC-3′) and AtkdtAi3 (5′-ATCTGTTGGCCATGATGTGG-3′) as primers for detecting KDTA transcripts in the AtkdtA1 mutant, and using AtkdtAi5 (5′-GCATCTTCATTACATAGAGG-3′) and AtKDOTR as primers in the AtKdtA2 mutant. After an initial denaturation step of 5 min at 95°C, the reaction program was as follows: 30 s at 95°C as a denaturation step, 30 s at 60°C for primer annealing, 1 min 20 s at 72°C as an elongation step, for 30 cycles, and a final step of 5 min at 72°C. Real time quantitative PCR was performed as to analyze the gene expression for AtKDSA1, AtKDSA2, AtKDSB and AtKDTA using the following primers, respectively: AtkdsA1i-5′ (5′-GAGGTTGGTGACCCAAACGG-3′) and AtkdsA1i-3′ (5′-CATGGTGCTTCTTTAAAACGTTCA-3′); AtkdsA2i-5′ (5′-CTGCATTTTGCAGGTCCGTAC-3′) and AtkdsA2i-3′ (5′-TATCATATCAGGCAACATCAGCTACTTTGA-3′); AtCMPKdoi-5′ (5′-GTTGACACACCCGATGATGTC-3′) and AtCMPKdoi-3′ (5′-CACACACAATGCCACAACTC-3′); AtkdtAi-5′ (5′-GCATCTTCATTACATAGAGG-3′) and AtkdtAi-3′ (5′-ACTTGTTGGCCATGATGTGG-3′). Reaction mixtures (25 μL) consisted of 12.5 μL of Platinum® quantitative PCR Supermix-UDG (Invitrogen) with 1 μL of SYBR Green I dye (Molecular Probes, Invitrogen, Cergy Pontoise, France) solution (1/3000 dilution in water of the manufacturer's 10,000× stock solution), 0.2 μM of each primers and cDNA corresponding to 8 ng of total RNA. Cycling conditions consisted of an initial uracyl DNA glycosylase treatment for 2 min and denaturation step of 95°C for 5 min as a “hot start”, 40 cycles of 95°C for 30 s and 60°C for 30 s. The PCR reactions and quantifications were carried out in the real time PCR detection system iCycler iQ (Bio-Rad, Marne-la-Coquette, France). During PCR amplification, fluorescence emission was monitored. The increase in fluorescence emission of the dye used is proportional to the amount of PCR product accumulated that is in turn proportional to the starting amount of DNA template. A standard curve was constructed using templates of known copy number for the target sequence. The copy number of the samples was estimated by plotting the threshold cycle (the cycle at which fluorescence is considered to be significant above the background level and within linear range) against the log of the starting copy number (iCycler iQ real time detection system from Bio-Rad manual). To construct the standard curve, serial dilutions of cloned AtKDSA1, AtKDSA2, AtKDSB and AtKDTA fragments inserted into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega) were used. The number of copies in each dilution was calculated with the following formula: (number of moles) × (6.02 × 1023) = number of copies. All standard samples were assayed in duplicate wells, and experimental samples were assayed in quadruplate wells. One gram of frozen leaves was suspended in aqueous 80% (v/v) ethanol, heated at 70°C for 15 min and centrifuged at 2500 rpm for 5 min. The insoluble residue was treated for 4 h at 4°C with 0.1 N NaOH to saponify the methyl and acetyl esters. The suspensions were adjusted to pH 5 with 10% (v/v) acetic acid and then treated for 16 h at 30°C with an EPG from Aspergillus niger (30 units, Megazyme, Wicklow, Ireland) and then with α-amylase (500 units) for 16 h at 25°C. The suspensions were centrifuged, and the insoluble residues were washed with water. The EPG-soluble fractions were dialyzed (1 kDa cutoff dialysis tubing) against deionized water and freeze-dried. RG-I and RG-II polysaccharides were purified from the EPG-solubilized material by elution from SEC on a Sephadex G-75 (2.5 × 90 cm) (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Inc., Uppsala, Sweden; 1.6 × 38 cm) column in 50 mM ammonium formate as buffer. One milligram of purified RG-II was hydrolyzed in 200 μL of 0.1 M TFA for 16 h at 40°C. For the visualization of the A chain, the sample was then submitted to an additional hydrolysis at 80°C for 1 h. The solutions were then freeze-dried before analysis by ESI-MS-MS. The samples were submitted to a 16-h methanolysis at 80°C with 500 μL of dry 2 M methanolic-HCl. After evaporation of the methanol, the methyl glycosides were then converted into their trimethylsilyl derivatives and separated by gas liquid chromatography. The gas chromatograph was equipped with a flame ionization detector, a wall-coated open tubular fused silica capillary column (length 25 m, i.d. 0.25 mm) with CP-Sil 5 CP as stationary phase and helium as gas vector. The oven temperature program was 2 min at 120°C, 10°C/min to 160°C, 1.5°C/min to 220°C and then 20°C/min to 280°C. The quantification of sugar was done by integration of peaks and determination of the corresponding molar values using response factors established with standard monosaccharides. Gas liquid chromatography coupled to electron impact mass spectrometry was performed using an Agilent (Wilmington, DE) GC 6890 chromatograph coupled to an Agilent 5973 mass spectrometer. Data collection was performed on HP Chemstation A.03.03. The separation of monosaccharides was performed on an Agilent HP5 column (30 m × 0.25 mm × 0.25 mm). Oven temperature was programmed from 60°C for 1 min to 140°C at 20°C/min, then a second ramp from 140 to 160°C at 5°C/min. Finally, a third ramp was used from 160 to 235°C at 2°C/min. This final temperature was maintained for 3 min. Injector and detector temperatures were 250 and 230°C, respectively. The injector was in splitless mode. Helium was used as carrier gas. Mass spectra (MS) were recorded in the electronic impact (70 eV) mode. The transfer line temperature was 250°C with source temperature at 250°C. A 14 mM solution of DMB (Sigma-Aldrich, Saint-Quentin Fallavier, France) was prepared by dissolving DMB in an aqueous solution of 80 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 40 mM sodium hydrosulphite and 2.8 M acetic acid. One milligram of the RG-II fraction was solubilized in 90 μL of deionized water and 90 μL of the DMB solution. The mixture was heated at 50°C for 2.5 h in the dark. Twenty microliters of the resulting solution was injected in a liquid chromatograph (Kontron, Milan, Italy) equipped with a reverse-phase C18 column (300 × 4.5 mm, C18 monomeric, Vydac, cat. # 238TP54) and SFM-25 fluorescence spectrophotometer (Kontron). Elution of the DMB derivatives was performed at a flow rate of 0.9 mL min−1 at room temperature using solvent A (acetonitrile:methanol:water, 4:6:90 [v/v]) and solvent B (acetonitrile:methanol:water, 11:7:82 [v/v]), with an A to B linear gradient from 50:50 to 0:100 (v/v) over 40 min. The DMB derivatives were detected by fluorescence using excitation and emission wavelengths of 373 and 448 nm, respectively. MALDI-TOF mass spectrum of the disaccharide side chains released by mild acid hydrolysis and coupled to DMB was acquired on a Voyager DE-Pro MALDI-TOF instrument (Applied Biosystems, Courtabeuf, France) equipped with a 337 nm nitrogen laser. MS were performed in the reflector delayed extraction mode using 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich, Saint-Quentin Fallavier, France) as matrix. These spectra were recorded in a positive mode using an acceleration voltage of 20,000 V with a delay time of 100 ns. ESI-MS was performed on a Q-TRAP mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems). Samples in 95% water/5% acetonitrile and 0.02% formic acid (v/v) were infused through Proxeon nanospray capillaries (Proxeon Biosystems, Odense, Denmark). The ion source conditions were adjusted for optimal sample ionization. According to this, infusion needle potential values were adapted between 0.9 and 1.5 kV. Spectra were acquired in a positive mode with a scan rate of 1000 amu s−1 and accumulated until a satisfactory signal to noise ratio had been obtained. Other voltages were as recommended by the manufacturer. The cDNA of AtKDTA containing the full-length ORF was PCR amplified from the U17171 clone (from RIKEN cDNA clone RAFL06-11-M15 GenBank accession number AY065115) with primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCCTTCATGAAGCTCGAGTGTTTG-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGCGTCTTTGCAAATGTGATTC-3′. The AtKDTA sequence was then inserted in pGEM-T and sequenced. The cDNA was first inserted into pDONRTM 207 (Invitrogen). Then, the AtKDTA cDNA was subcloned into pMDC83, which contains the GFP6 cDNA, the dual P35S and the Nos T (ABRC, Ohio State University, Ohio; CITATION) by using the Gateway® technology (Invitrogen). The ERD2-CFP construct (CITATION), used as a Golgi marker, was kindly given by N. Paris (BPMP, Montpellier, France). The AtKDTA-GFP expression vector was introduced in the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 pMP90. Leaves of 5- to 6-week-old tobacco plants growing at 22°C were infiltrated with transformed agrobacteria as described by CITATION. For confocal imaging, the fluorescence emitted by the reporter proteins was observed 48–72 h after transient expression. The ERD2-CFP construct used as a Golgi marker was previously described (CITATION). For mitochondria labeling, leaves expressing the AtKDTA-GFP construct were infiltrated with 100 nM MitoTracker® Orange CMTMRos (Molecular Probes™) in Murashige and Skoog's buffer and plants were then left in the dark for 4 h before observation. For colocalization with chloroplasts in tobacco mesophyll cells, epidermis was removed prior to observation. The confocal imaging was carried out on a confocal microscope from Leica (TCS SP2 AOBS, Wetzlar, Germany) with a ×40 oil immersion objective. For imaging the coexpression of ERD2-CFP and AtKDTA-GFP constructs, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 458 nm for CFP and 488 nm for GFP were alternatively used with line switching mode on the multitrack setting of the microscope. CFP fluorescence was detected between 460 and 485 nm and GFP fluorescence between 509 and 602 nm. For imaging both the AtKDTA-GFP fluorescence and MitoTracker® labeling, we used a Zeiss LSM510 Meta laser scanning microscope (Jena, Germany) with a ×63 oil immersion objective. To do so, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 488 nm for GFP and 543 nm were alternatively used. GFP fluorescence was detected using a 545 nm dichroic beam splitter and a 505–530 nm bandpass filter, and MitoTracker® orange fluorescence was detected with a 545 nm dichroic beam splitter and a 560–615 nm bandpass filter. Image analysis and deconvolutions were performed with the Huygens Remote Manager (CITATION).
