!~ABS~! Arabidopsis TRANSPARENT TESTA19 (TT19) encodes a glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-like protein that is involved in the accumulation of proanthocyanidins (PAs) in the seed coat. PA accumulation sites in tt19 immature seeds were observed as small vacuolar-like structures, whereas those in tt12, a mutant of the tonoplast-bound transporter of PAs, and tt12 tt19 were observed at peripheral regions of small vacuoles. We found that tt19 immature seeds had small spherical structures showing unique thick morphology by differential interference contrast microscopy. The distribution pattern of the thick structures overlapped the location of PA accumulation sites, and the thick structures were outlined with GFP-TT12 proteins in tt19. PA analysis showed higher (eightfold) levels of solvent-insoluble PAs in tt19 immature seeds compared with the wild type. Metabolic profiling of the solvent-soluble fraction by LC-MS demonstrated that PA derivatives such as epicatechins and epicatechin oligomers, although highly accumulated in the wild type, were absent in tt19. We also revealed that tt12 specifically accumulated glycosylated epicatechins, the putative transport substrates for TT12. tt12 tt19 showed a similar metabolic profile to tt19. Given the cytosolic localization of functional GFP-TT19 proteins, our results suggest that TT19, which acts prior to TT12, functions in the cytosol to maintain the regular accumulation of PA precursors, such as epicatechin and glycosylated epicatechin, in the vacuole. The PA pathway in the Arabidopsis seed coat is discussed in relation to the subcellular localization of PA metabolites.
!~RES~! We first prepared the GFP-TT19 fusion protein expression construct under the control of the TT19 authentic promoter. When this construct was introduced into tt19 mutants, anthocyanin accumulation in seedlings and PA accumulation in mature seeds were completely restored to the wild-type level (Figure S1a,b). This indicated that the GFP-TT19 fusion proteins are functional in planta. GFP-TT19 proteins were expressed in subepidermal cells of hypocotyls, where anthocyanins specifically accumulate at the seedling stage (Figure S1c). In immature seeds, the fusion proteins were found only in endothelial cells where PAs specifically accumulate (Figure 1a). This indicated that the TT19 promoter restricts expression to anthocyanin- and PA-accumulating cells in Arabidopsis, implying a correlation between TT19 function and anthocyanins and PAs. Our attention then turned towards the investigation of PA biosynthesis and the accumulation pathway in the seed coat. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of TT19 protein in PA-accumulating cells, immature seeds from the GFP-TT19 transformants were observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). GFP-TT19 proteins showed no specific organelle-like localization, and were dispersed in the cytosol (Figure 1b, left). A similar cytosolic localization of GFP-TT19 proteins was observed in tt12, the knock-out mutant for a PA transporter gene (Figure 1b, right), as well as Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells T87 transformed with GFP-TT19 driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (Figure 1c). To characterize the GFP-TT19 proteins biochemically, total protein from young siliques of transformants was differentially centrifuged to obtain microsomal and soluble fractions, and GFP-TT19 proteins were detected by western blotting using anti-GFP antibody. Strong signals showing the presence of GFP-TT19 proteins (about 50 kDa) were found in the soluble fraction (S100), whereas only negligible signals were detected in the microsomal fraction (P100; Figure 1d). These results suggest that TT19 proteins function in the cytosol rather than in the membrane-bound form in immature seeds. Vanillin, which reacts with PA derivatives such as flavan-3-ols and the terminal units of PA polymers, has been used to detect the distribution pattern of PA derivatives in Arabidopsis seeds (CITATION). As previously reported, immature seeds of tt19 showed strong vanillin signals in small vacuolar-like structures (Figure 2a, left panel; CITATION). Our observations under high magnification showed that vanillin signals in immature seeds of tt12 seem to be localized around small vacuoles (Figure 2a,b). This phenotype differed somewhat from a previous report where tt12 showed a dispersed phenotype for PA derivatives (CITATION). This difference may result from differences in the background of each tt12 mutant (see Experimental procedures). In the tt12 tt19 double mutant, the vanillin reaction was only restricted outside the vacuoles (Figure 2a,b). In an effort to determine the localization of PA derivatives more precisely, immature seeds were fixed, sectioned into 1-μm-thick slices and then stained with toluidine blue O (TBO). The distribution of PA derivatives was clearly detected within the endothelial cells in each genotype, confirming the results of the vanillin staining. In tt19, TBO signals were observed within small vacuolar-like structures (data not shown). In tt12, TBO signals were mainly detected at peripheral regions of vacuoles (Figure 2c,d). In tt12 tt19, TBO signals were also detected outside the small vacuoles (Figure 2c,d). In immature seeds of the flavonoid-less tt4 mutant, the absence of red vanillin signals and blue TBO signals in endothelial cells has previously been reported (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the tt19 phenotype with respect to the TT19 expressing cells, immature seeds were observed by differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy. The tt19 mutant seeds showed unique, vacuolar-like thick structures in their endothelial cells (Figure 3a, right panel). These structures were not detected in immature seeds of the wild-type Columbia (Col; Figure 3a, left panel) or in other tt mutants such as tt4 and tt18 (data not shown). (The tt19-specific unique structures showing thick morphology in DIC microscopy are hereafter referred to as thick structures.) The thick structures seemed to be similar in size and number to the PA-containing structures detected by vanillin staining (Figure 2a, left panel). To confirm this, tt19 immature seeds were sequentially observed using a phase contrast microscope without staining, and then observed following vanillin treatment. The patterns of the thick structures and the vanillin staining were identical (Figure 3b). These results indicated that the thick structures in tt19 accumulate PA derivatives. [[FIGURE]] In order to determine whether the thick structures in tt19 are surrounded by a membrane, a fusion of GFP with the PA transporter membrane protein TT12 (GFP-TT12) was ectopically expressed by the CaMV 35S promoter. It was confirmed that the GFP-TT12 proteins were localized in endomembranes like tonoplasts in roots of the transformants (Figure S2a), and could complement the PA-less phenotype of tt12 endothelial cells (Figure S2b). However, it was difficult to determine the subcellular localization of GFP-TT12 in endothelial cells when immature seeds were observed on whole mounts. Then, immature seeds were dissected and the exposed endothelial cells were observed with CLSM. We found that the thick structures in tt19 were outlined with GFP-TT12 (Figure 4a). To obtain further evidence, GFP-TT12 proteins were expressed by the TT19 promoter, which makes it possible to trace specifically the tonoplast of the endothelial cells in immature seeds. By releasing the thick structures gently from immature seeds of the transformants, clear GFP-TT12 signals were detected at the perimeter of the thick structures in tt19 (Figure 4b). These results suggest that the thick structure in tt19 is a small vacuole harboring PA derivatives, and is surrounded with TT12 membrane proteins. [[FIGURE]] The vacuolar-like thick structures harboring PA derivatives in tt19 immature seeds were quite marked, and were only detected in endothelial cells. These findings prompted us to speculate that the composition and/or conformation of the PAs in the vacuoles differed between tt19 and the wild type. To investigate this, PAs were extracted from immature seeds and then analyzed by acid hydrolysis. Generally, most PAs are solvent-soluble at the immature stage of seed development, and are gradually insolubilized with the progression of maturation (CITATION). In immature seeds (6 days after flowering, 6 DAF) of the Col ecotype, the quantity of solvent-soluble PAs was quite high compared with that of insoluble PAs, consistent with a previous report on the Ws ecotype (CITATION). In contrast, tt19 immature seeds showed specific characteristics: solvent-insoluble PAs were markedly higher compared with Col (Figure 5). By introducing a mutation of the PA structural genes, such as leucoanthocyanidin dioxygenase (LDOX/TT18/Tannin Deficient Seed4; CITATION; CITATION) or ANR (BAN/AST, CITATION; CITATION) in the tt19 background, we confirmed that this high level of solvent-insoluble PAs was absent (data not shown). Immature seeds of tt12 possessed small quantities of solvent-soluble and insoluble PAs (Figure 5). The levels of solvent-insoluble PAs were markedly lower in the tt12 tt19 double mutant compared with the tt19 single mutant, whereas slightly higher but significant levels of insoluble PAs were found in the double mutant compared with the tt12 single mutant (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] In an effort to characterize the metabolites in greater detail, solvent-soluble extracts from immature seeds were analyzed by LC-MS and comprehensive metabolic profiles were obtained. Principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering analysis with about 1800 peaks showed clear similarities among triplicate samples for each genotype (data not shown). Of these, peaks that could be assigned as representing known compounds or which could be detected as different values for the content among the genotypes were selected (Figure 6). There were no marked differences in the metabolic profiles between mature seeds of Col and tt19. However, with immature seeds (6 DAF), differences in metabolic profiles among the genotypes were detected, as described below. With respect to PA derivatives, Col contains high levels of PA precursors such as epicatechins and their oligomers (n = 2–7). In tt12, only reduced levels of epicatechin monomers and short oligomers (n = 2–4) were detected, with no longer oligomers (n = 5–7) being detected. Previously unknown PA derivatives such as epicatechin hexosides were detected in tt12. In tt19, there are no known PAs or PA precursors such as epicatechin, epicatechin hexoside or procyanidin B2 (epicatechin dimers with a 4,8 connection). The metabolic profile of the tt12 tt19 double mutant was similar to that of the tt19 single mutant. Five metabolites without annotation information (unknown 1–5) showed differences in the content among the genotypes. Unknown 1, 4 and 5 were uniquely detected in immature Col, whereas unknown 2 and 3 were found in immature tt12. The latter two compounds were also found in the tt12 tt19 double mutant. For other flavonoid subclasses, such as flavonols, there were no differences in the content among each genotype. Information about the metabolites represented in Figure 6 is shown in Table S1. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana tt19 mutants (tt19-1 and tt19-2) were originally isolated by mutagenesis of wild-type Columbia (Col) using accelerated carbon ions as previously described (CITATION). Both alleles of tt19 show the same phenotypes, such as thick vacuoles in the endothelial cells of immature seeds and a high content of solvent-insoluble PAs. The T-DNA insertion mutant line of tt12-1 in the Wassilewskija (Ws) background was kindly provided by Dr I. Debeaujon (INRA, http://www.international.inra.fr). The Col background mutant of tt12-2 is a T-DNA insertion line from the GABI-Kat collection (line 797D03; CITATION). The PA-less control lines, tt18-2 and ban-4/anthocyanin spotted testa (ast), are from our mutant collection of Col mutagenized by carbon ion beams (CITATION; CITATION). Throughout the biochemical analyses, mutant lines in the Col background were used. Seedlings were grown in a growth chamber with 12 h of illumination per day at 23°C. The DNA region including a functional promoter of the TT19 gene was previously identified using a molecular complementation test (CITATION). The TT19 promoter region (from −754 to +1 bp, relative to the translation initiation site defined as +1 bp) was amplified with high-fidelity Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase using two primers possessing a SacI and AgeI site, respectively. Following digestion of the PCR products using the respective endonucleases, DNA was ligated to the 35S promoter sequence of the GFP binary vector pEGAD (CITATION). The resulting plasmid was named pProTT19::GFP. The TT19 open reading frame (ORF) region was also amplified using two primers possessing a SmaI and BamHI site, respectively, digested with the respective endonulceases, and then ligated into pEGAD and pProTT19::GFP, which had been digested using the same respective enzymes. The resulting plasmids were named p35S::GFP:TT19 and pProTT19::GFP:TT19, respectively. The ORF sequence of TT12 was also amplified using two specific primers possessing an EcoRI site and an SmaI site, respectively, and then introduced into pEGAD and pProTT19::GFP for the construction of plasmid p35S::GFP:TT12 and pProTT19::GFP:TT12, respectively. DNA sequences were confirmed at each step of the cloning procedure. The binary vectors were separately transformed into AgrobacteriumGV3101 by electroporation. Agrobacterium clones harboring binary vectors were infected into Arabidopsis plants using the floral-dip method (CITATION). T1 seedlings were screened by growing them on plates containing BASTA (40 mg l−1) and Claforan (166 mg l−1). Arabidopsis T87 suspension-cultured cells (CITATION), obtained from RIKEN BioResource Center (http://www.brc.riken.go.jp), were transformed with the Agrobacterium clones harboring p35S::GFP:TT19 according to the method of CITATION. GFP expression patterns in the transformants were determined using a fluorescence stereomicroscope (Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com) and a confocal laser scanning microscope (FV1000; Olympus, http://www.olympus.com). Developing siliques (at 3–5 DAF) were ground at 4°C in an at least three-times volume of extraction buffer [50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 50 mm sucrose, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 1x Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche, http://www.roche.com)]. Crude extract was centrifuged at 1000 g for 10 min at 4°C to eliminate debris. The supernatants, defined as total protein, were then sequentially centrifuged at 8000, 13 000 and 100 000 g for 10, 30 and 60 min, respectively, at 4°C. The supernatant obtained following centrifugation at 100 000 g was used as the S100 fraction, and its volume was measured. The pellet obtained following centrifugation at 100 000 g (P100) was dissolved in extraction buffer containing 1x SDS-PAGE sample buffer. To compare the relative distribution of GFP-TT19 proteins in each S100 and P100 fraction, 5% of the final volume was subjected to SDS-PAGE and western blotting using anti-GFP antibody (Roche), as reported by CITATION. Vanillin treatment was performed essentially according to the method of CITATION. For the sectioning of immature seeds, seeds were fixed in 100 mm phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 2% glutaraldehyde, treated in 100 mm phosphate buffer containing 1% osmium tetroxide, and then embedded in EPON 812 resin (TAAB, http://www.taab.co.uk), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Seeds were sectioned into 1-μm thick slices using an ultramicrotome, stained with 0.05% TBO, and then observed under a light microscope. For determining the subcellular localization of GFT-TT12, immature seeds of the 35S::GFP:TT12 transformants were dissected with 26G needles in 10 mm HEPES buffer (pH 7.4). Alternatively, from whole-mounted immature seeds of ProTT19::GFP:TT12 transformants, where tonoplasts of the endothelial cells were labeled with GFP-TT12, the vacuoles were released on a glass slide by gentle pressure with a cover slip. The exposed endothelial cells or vacuoles were then observed using a confocal laser scanning microscope. PA extraction and acid hydrolysis were performed according to the method of CITATION. PAs were extracted from immature seeds (6 DAF) by grinding them in 70% acetone containing 5.26 mm Na2S2O5, followed by sonication for 20 min. Following centrifugation at 13 000 g for 5 min, the supernatant was evaporated and resuspended in 2:10:3 of HCl:butanol:70% acetone. The absorbance at 545 nm of this resuspended solution was then determined to quantify the level of anthocyanins present. After hydrolysis at 95°C for 60 min, the absorbance at 545 nm was once again determined. Subtraction of the first absorbance value from the second was defined as the soluble PA fraction. The pellet obtained following extraction with 70% acetone was also evaporated, resuspended in the HCl/butanol solution, and hydrolyzed to define the insoluble PAs present. Metabolic profiles in immature and mature seeds were determined by LC-ESI-Q-TOF/MS (CITATION). Seeds were homogenized in 25 times volume of 50% methanol using a mixer mill (MM 300; Retsch, http://www.retsch.com) with a zirconia bead set for 5 min at 20 Hz. Following centrifugation at 15 000 g for 10 min, the supernatant was then passed through a 0.22-μm filter (Ultrafree-MC; Millipore, http://www.millipore.com). HPLC analysis, data processing and annotation of each metabolite were carried out as previously described (CITATION). The raw chromatogram data were converted to the NetCDF format, and then processed to obtain the data matrix that contains information on peak intensities for individual metabolites using MetAlign (CITATION). Metabolites were identified by a comparison of the chromatographic behavior with that of authentics, or were annotated by an interpretation of an LC-ESI-CID/MS spectrum (Table S1).
