!~ABS~! The 77kDa subunit of the polyadenylation cleavage stimulation factor (CstF77) is important in messenger RNA 3′ end processing. Previously, we demonstrated that AtCstF77 interacts with AtCPSF30, the Arabidopsis ortholog of the 30kDa subunit of the Cleavage and Polyadenylation Specificity Factor. In further dissecting this interaction, it was found that the C-terminus of AtCstF77 interacts with AtCPSF30. Remarkably, we also found that the C-terminal domain of AtCstF77 possesses RNA-binding ability. These studies therefore reveal AtCstF77 to be an RNA-binding protein, adding yet another RNA-binding activity to the plant polyadenylation complex. This raises interesting questions as to the means by which RNAs are recognized during mRNA 3′ end formation in plants.
!~RES~! Previously, it was reported that the C-terminal half (approximately) of AtCstF77 interacted with AtCPSF30 in a yeast two-hybrid assay CITATION. To confirm this interaction, in vitro pull-down assays were performed. Using the crystal structure of murine CstF77 CITATION as a guide, it was determined (CITATIONA) that AtCstF77 could be subdivided into three domains, with a C-terminal region that, while not apparent in the structures, could be placed within a conceptual cavity formed by the dimeric HAT part of the protein (see the right panel of CITATIONA). The C-terminal domain is not well-conserved evolutionarily (CITATIONB). For AtCstF77, the CTD consisted of residues 500–734, (CITATIONB). Thus, to test the interaction between the C-terminus of AtCstF77 and AtCPSF30, the maltose binding protein (MBP) tag was fused with amino acids 500–734 of AtCstF77; the MBP tag was used for pull-down assays and for purification of the proteins. Subsequently, the co-purification of biotinylated AtCPSF30 with MBP-AtCstF77 CTD was assayed. The results of these experiments showed that AtCPSF30 co-purified with the MBP-AtCstF77 CTD (“MBP-77 CTD” in CITATION B). In contrast, AtCPSF30 did not bind to MBP (CITATIONB). This binding of the AtCstF77 CTD was specific for AtCPSF30 (and not for the biotin tag), as the major biotinylated Escherichia coli protein (BCCP in CITATIONB; CITATION) present in the extracts did not bind to any of the MBP proteins. These results corroborate previous results CITATION and place the binding site of AtCPSF30 apart from the conserved HAT domains, at the C-terminus of AtCstF77. The activities of AtCPSF30 are affected by several interacting partners CITATION. Thus, it was hypothesized that AtCstF77 may also affect the activity of AtCPSF30. Accordingly, RNA binding by AtCPSF30 was assayed in the presence of the C-terminal domain of AtCstF77. For these assays, the AtCstF77 CTD was cleaved from the MBP tag. In addition, an MPB fusion protein containing an AtCPSF30 mutant lacking one of the three CCCH zinc finger motifs CITATION was assayed. It was necessary to use the MBP fusion protein for these assays since it was not possible to purify enough biotinylated AtCPSF30 to perform the RNA-binding assays. Also, this mutant was chosen because it interacts with AtCstF77 (B Addepalli, unpublished results), and because it lacks the inherent endonuclease activity of the wild-type AtCPSF30 CITATION and thus is easier to assay for RNA binding. The RNA for these assays was derived from the cauliflower mosaic virus polyadenylation signal CITATION and possessed all of the elements needed for efficient polyadenylation in vivo (CITATION A). As expected, AtCPSF30 possessed readily-detectable RNA-binding activity (CITATION A, lane 2). Considerable RNA-binding activity was also seen when a mixture of AtCPSF30 and the AtCstF77 C-terminal domain fusion protein was assayed (CITATIONA, lane 3); this indicates that RNA binding activity remains when AtCPSF30 and the C-terminus of AtCstF77 are present in the same reaction. Surprisingly, RNA binding was also seen when AtCPSF30 was omitted from these assays (CITATIONA, lane 1), suggesting that the C-terminal domain of AtCstF77 itself possesses RNA-binding activity. To confirm this result, the binding of full-length MBP-AtCstF77 to RNA was assayed. Since the preparations of the full-length protein contained significant quantities of truncated protein (CITATIONB, lane 2), RNA binding was assayed by testing the ability of the fusion protein to bind immobilized poly(A). Because the detection used focuses on the MBP tag that is fused at the N-terminus of AtCstF77, this approach has the added facet that a deletion analysis of a sort is obtained, with the demarcation between bound and unbound polypeptides defining the amino acid sequences needed for binding to poly(A). When this was done, the full-sized MBP-AtCstF77 was found to be bound efficiently to the immobilized poly(A) (CITATIONB, lane 3). In contrast, forms of the MBP-AtCstF77 that had been truncated at their C-termini by as few as about 70 amino acids did not bind to poly(A). This result indicates that the full-sized AtCstF77 binds RNA, and it corroborates the finding in CITATIONA by localizing sequences needed for binding to the C-terminal 70 amino acids (approximately) of the protein. The finding that AtCstF77 binds RNA raises the possibility that this binding might be specific for one of the sub-elements of a plant polyadenylation signal. To test this, RNA binding by the isolated C-terminal domain was assayed with CaMV-derived RNAs lacking either the far-upstream (FUE) or near-upstream (NUE) elements that comprise a plant poly(A) signal CITATION. The design of these RNAs (CITATIONA) was guided by earlier studies CITATION; thus, the NUE mutant carried a deletion of the AAUAAA motif that is required for efficient functioning of this poly(A) signal, and the FUE mutant consisted of a deletion lacking the UGUAA elements that are required as well for efficient polyadenylation. As shown in CITATIONB, RNAs that lacked either the NUE motif or the FUE were bound by AtCstF77 much as was the intact CaMV polyadenylation signal. With all three RNAs, half-maximal binding was seen at protein concentrations of about 320nM. Thus, AtCstF77 does not show a noticeable preference for an intact plant polyadenylation signal or its sub-elements.
!~MM~! The coding region for the AtCstF77 CTD was PCR amplified from Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia cDNA CITATION and cloned into the pMAL-c4G vector (New England Biolabs); to facilitate this, XhoI and BglII sites were incorporated into the PCR primers (see CITATION ). AtCPSF30 (At1g30460) was cloned into the pT7-MAT-FLAG expression vector (Sigma–Aldrich) as an XhoI-BglII fragment. In addition, a C-terminal biotinylation site (GLNDIFEAQKIEWHE) was incorporated into the construct using suitably-designed oligonucleotides (CITATION). Briefly, the T7-Mat-FLAG-AtCPSF30 construct was digested with the BglII site at the 3′ end of the AtCPSF30 coding region and the annealed oligonucleotides encoding the biotinylation motif ligated into the digested plasmid. Recombinants were identified by PCR and restriction digestion. The clone encoding the full-length AtCstF77-MBP fusion protein has been described before CITATION. The growth, induction, and purification of the MBP-containing proteins was done as described elsewhere CITATION. BL21(DE) that had been transformed with the pBirAcm plasmid (http://www.genecopoeia.com/product/avitag/) was used for the production of biotin-tagged AtCPSF30; in this case, cells were grown, induced, and extracts prepared as described elsewhere CITATION. Crude extracts were used for in vitro pull-down assays. MBP and the MBP-AtCstF77 CTD fusion proteins were purified using affinity chromatography as described CITATION. For the assay shown in CITATIONB, the MBP-AtCstF77CTD protein was cleaved with Genenase (New England Biolabs) prior to assay. The MBP-ZF3 AtCPSF30 protein was a gift of Dr. Balasubrahmanyam Addepalli. The protocols for in vitro pull-down assays have been detailed elsewhere CITATION. RNA-binding assays were conducted as described previously CITATION, using 12pmol of purified protein and 2pmol of RNA per 10μl reaction except where noted (e.g., CITATIONB). The binding of purified MBP-AtCstF77 to poly(A) Sepharose was performed using the protocol described by Forbes et al. CITATION, except that poly(A) Sepharose was used in place of poly(G) Sepharose, 12μg of purified protein was used, and assays and washes were performed in 50mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5+0.15M NaCl+1mM EDTA. For this assay, the input and bound proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting with anti-MBP monoclonal antibodies (New England Biolabs).
