!~ABS~! Puf proteins have important roles in controlling gene expression at the post-transcriptional level by promoting RNA decay and repressing translation. The Pumilio homology domain (PUM-HD) is a conserved region within Puf proteins that binds to RNA with sequence specificity. Although Puf proteins have been well characterized in animal and fungal systems, little is known about the structural and functional characteristics of Puf-like proteins in plants. The Arabidopsis and rice genomes code for 26 and 19 Puf-like proteins, respectively, each possessing eight or fewer Puf repeats in their PUM-HD. Key amino acids in the PUM-HD of several of these proteins are conserved with those of animal and fungal homologs, whereas other plant Puf proteins demonstrate extensive variability in these amino acids. Three-dimensional modeling revealed that the predicted structure of this domain in plant Puf proteins provides a suitable surface for binding RNA. Electrophoretic gel mobility shift experiments showed that the Arabidopsis AtPum2 PUM-HD binds with high affinity to BoxB of the Drosophila Nanos Response Element I (NRE1) RNA, whereas a point mutation in the core of the NRE1 resulted in a significant reduction in binding affinity. Transient expression of several of the Arabidopsis Puf proteins as fluorescent protein fusions revealed a dynamic, punctate cytoplasmic pattern of localization for most of these proteins. The presence of predicted nuclear export signals and accumulation of AtPuf proteins in the nucleus after treatment of cells with leptomycin B demonstrated that shuttling of these proteins between the cytosol and nucleus is common among these proteins. In addition to the cytoplasmically enriched AtPum proteins, two AtPum proteins showed nuclear targeting with enrichment in the nucleolus. The Puf family of RNA-binding proteins in plants consists of a greater number of members than any other model species studied to date. This, along with the amino acid variability observed within their PUM-HDs, suggests that these proteins may be involved in a wide range of post-transcriptional regulatory events that are important in providing plants with the ability to respond rapidly to changes in environmental conditions and throughout development.
!~RES~! BLASTp and tBLASTn searches of the Arabidopsis and rice genome databases were conducted using the Drosophila Pumilio PUM-HD amino acid sequence (residues 1093 to 1427) as the query sequence. This search revealed that both the Arabidopsis and rice genomes encode strikingly large Puf gene families that include 26 and 19 putative members, respectively. A phylogenetic tree of the predicted Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins was constructed based on the deduced amino acid sequence of their PUM-HD coding sequence (Figure CITATION). Also included in the phylogenetic tree were representative Puf sequences from the moss Physcomitrella patens, the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as well as Drosophila Pumilio and human Pum1. A maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree of the PUM-HDs of Arabidopsis, rice and other plant and non-plant species. The analysis is based on the deduced amino acid sequence of the PUM-HD domain from each predicted Puf gene. The tree includes all members from Arabidopsis and rice, and representative members from Physcomitrella patens (Phys), Chlamydomonas reinhardii (Chlamy), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc), as well as Drosophila Pumilio (DrPumilio) and human Pum1 (HsPum1). The Arabidopsis genes are referred by their designated Pum gene number (i.e., AtPumxx) that were reported by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), as well as their gene locus name (Atxxxxxxx). The rice clones are identified by their gene locus name only (Osxxxxxxxx), as standardized Pum gene designations have not yet been established. Maximum likelihood bootstrap values (>65%) are shown above the nodes (PhyML/RaxML), and Bayesian posterior probability values (>0.95) are shown below the nodes. The bar at the bottom of the figure indicates the number of substitutions per site. The tree is rooted at its midpoint and, thus, its rooting should be interpreted as an hypothesis. The phylogentic tree identified several sub-families of proteins that were assigned into groups based on monophyly (Figure CITATION). Group I was the most extensive of all groups, and contained at least one Puf member from each of the species that were included in this analysis. This group corresponds to the 'Pumilio cluster' of proteins that was categorized previously [CITATION]. Group II contained plant, algal, and yeast proteins, whereas Groups III, IV, and V contained plant members only. A number of proteins are more divergent, and do not appear to belong to any of the major branches that were identified in this analysis (Figure CITATION). Some Arabidopsis and rice Puf genes appear to be orthologs (e.g., AtPum4 and Os02g57390, and AtPum23 and Os10g25110) as they demonstrate a high degree of sequence conservation in the PUM-HD. Additionally, two Chlamydomonas proteins (XP001703567 and XP001693949) also appear to be orthologs with plant Puf proteins. Gene expansion through tandem duplication is also evident from this analysis. AtPum 1, 2, and 3 (Group I) are clustered in one region of chromosome 2, and other tandemly located genes are also evident (i.e., AtPum 9 and 10, AtPum 13 and 14, and AtPum 18 and 19). Greater than half of the Arabidopsis (15/26) and rice (13/19) Puf proteins possess eight imperfect tandem Puf repeats (Figure CITATION). This is consistent with the number of Puf repeats present in most non-plant Puf proteins, although examples of functional Puf proteins with fewer than eight repeats have been identified [CITATION]. The remaining Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins lack one or more of these repeats, with some possessing only two or three obvious repeats. A number of core residues are uniquely conserved within each of the eight PUF repeats, thereby allowing us to determine the identity of each repeat and whether a specific repeat is absent or truncated. Crystallographic studies have demonstrated that the eight tandem Puf repeats of the human PUM-HD are flanked by two imperfect pseudorepeats (1' and 8') [CITATION]. Regions resembling these pseudorepeats are present in several of the Arabidopsis and rice proteins (Figure CITATION). Puf proteins from other species often contain large regions of low complexity [CITATION]. Although isolated, short regions of repeated amino acids are observed in some Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins, extensive stretches of low complexity sequence are not observed in these proteins. The tandemly positioned rice open reading frames (ORFs), Os04g20774 and Os04g20800, possess amino and carboxyl ends of the PUM-HD, respectively (Figure CITATION). Analysis of the genomic DNA region that separates the two sequences identified a transposon that likely inserted within a full-length PUM-HD from the ancestral Puf protein. Interestingly, there is cDNA support for Os04g20774, suggesting that the encoded protein is functional. Although Os04g20774 and Os04g20800 are placed in different positions in the phylogenetic tree (Figure CITATION), Os04g20774 likely belongs, by association, with Os04g20800 in Group I. Placing Os04g20774 in clade with AtPum25 is likely coincidental, as there is little conservation between these two sequences. Schematic line diagram comparing the primary structure of Puf proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. The numbered Puf repeats in the PUM-HD of each protein are indicated (alternating black and yellow strips), and the 1' and 8' pseudorepeats are also identified (blue). A conserved nucleic acid binding protein domain (NABP) is present in several Arabidopsis and rice PUM-HDs (red). Three additional Puf repeats were identified outside of the PUM-HD in AtPum23 (green). Two versions of the 'domain of unknown function' (DUF) were identified in Os08g40830 (green). The length of each protein is indicated in parentheses. Sequences that are supported by cDNA sequences are identified (*). The AtPum13 and AtPum22 cDNAs were amplified and sequenced independently (PPC Tam and DG Muench, unpublished observations). Those Arabidopsis and rice genes that were not supported by cDNA sequences (Figure CITATION) were analyzed more extensively in an attempt to validate their predicted ORFs. The presence of many closely related members within each of the Arabidopsis and rice Puf families allowed for sequence comparisons to provide a more confident assignment of ORFs. Notably, the ORFs of AtPum15 and AtPum17 that were listed in the database appear to have incorrectly predicted introns. In the case of AtPum15, this resulted in the merger of an ORF encoding a self-incompatibility protein with that of AtPum15. An incorrectly predicted intron in AtPum17 was likely the result of a sequencing error. This predicted intron contained sequence that was almost identical to sequence within the ORF of the intronless gene AtPum16, a close relative of AtPum17. Based on this information, the primary structure line diagrams have been modified, with the removal of the self-incompatibility ORF from AtPum15, and the intron from AtPum17 (Figure CITATION). The Arabidopsis PUM-HD with the highest amino acid sequence similarity to the human Pum1 PUM-HD is AtPum2, sharing 54% amino acid identity within this domain. The rice Puf protein with the highest amino acid sequence identity to AtPum2 is Os01g62650, possessing 49% amino acid identity throughout the entire protein and 84% identity within the PUM-HD. The AtPum2 and Os01g62650 PUM-HDs were included in an amino acid sequence alignment with PUM-HDs from other plant and non-plant species, and this alignment demonstrated that extensive sequence conservation exists in each of the Puf repeats (Figure CITATION). A comprehensive amino acid alignment of PUM-HDs comparing the Arabidopsis and rice PUM-HDs with all of the P. patens, C. reinhardtii, S. cerevisiae, human and Drosophila PUM-HDs demonstrated that the core of each repeat has a high degree of amino acid conservation across species (Additional file CITATION). The P. patens genome contains 11 Puf-like genes, whereas four Puf-like genes are present in the C. reinhardtii genome. Amino acid sequence alignment of the PUM-HD encoded by Puf genes in various organisms. Arabidopsis thaliana (AtPum2); Oryza sativa (Os01g62650); Physcomitrella patens (PpPum1, AAX58753); Chlamydomonas reinhardii (CrPuf, XP001703567); Drosophila melanogaster (DmPumilio); Homo sapiens (HsPUM1);Caenorhabditis elegans (CePuf9); and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (ScPuf3p). Identical amino acids are marked in black and similar residues are marked in gray. Crystallographic analysis of Puf proteins from other species has determined that the amino acids at positions 12, 13 and 16 within each Puf repeat provide the binding interface with RNA bases using hydrogen bonds, van der Waals, or stacking interactions [CITATION]. Surprisingly, alignment of these triplet amino acids in Puf repeats from the Arabidopsis and rice PUM-HDs demonstrated that there is complete conservation in some members and extensive variability in others (Figure CITATION). The amino acids at positions 12, 13 and 16 from AtPum1 through AtPum6 are conserved with the corresponding triplets in human Pum1 and Drosophila Pumilio (Figure CITATION, CITATION; [CITATION,CITATION]). However, AtPum7 through AtPum12 possess a single amino acid substitution in several of these amino acid triplets, and AtPum13 through AtPum26 show extensive variability and are less easily predictable (Figure CITATION). The rice PUM-HDs showed less variability in these triplets, although uncommon triplet combinations were also evident. In some Arabidopsis and rice PUM-HDs, amino acid substitutions in one Puf repeat resulted in a triplet composition that is identical to that observed in a different Puf repeat (Figure CITATION). For instance, repeat 1 in several of the Arabidopsis and rice proteins possesses a cysteine at position 12 (CRQ), resulting in an amino acid triplet that matches that of Puf repeats 3 and 5 in the conserved proteins. Interestingly, this CRQ triplet is also found in repeat 1 in some fungal and protozoan Puf proteins [CITATION]. Several examples of unconventional triplets are present in the Arabidopsis and rice Puf repeats (Figure CITATION), some of which are present in Puf repeats of other species as well (Additional file CITATION) [CITATION,CITATION]. Alignment of amino acids in the PUM-HD that are predicted to interact with RNA bases. Sequence alignment of amino acid triplets at positions 12, 13 and 16 in each Puf repeat (R1 to R8) from the Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins. Black shading identifies amino acids that are identical to the human Pum1 protein. The regions of the Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins that lie outside of the PUM-HD are variable in primary sequence and length (Figure CITATION, Additional file CITATION). These variable sequences are typically amino-terminal extensions of each protein, although carboxyl-terminal extensions of variable length are also present in several proteins. A Pfam search http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/ of the polypeptide regions lying outside of the PUM-HD was performed in an attempt to identify significantly conserved domains that are present within the variable regions of the Arabidopsis and rice Puf proteins. AtPum23 is the only Arabidopsis or rice Puf protein that possesses Puf repeat sequences that reside outside of the conserved PUM-HD region (Figure CITATION). Additionally, the amino-terminal region of several related Arabidopsis and rice proteins within Group I (Figure CITATION) possess a motif that resembles a Nucleic Acid Binding Protein domain (NABP, pfam07990; [CITATION])(Figure CITATION). Finally, the rice protein Os08g40830 possesses two regions in its amino terminal extension that are similar to versions of a 'domain of unknown function' (DUF, pfam04782, pfam04783)(Figure CITATION), a region found in some leucine zipper proteins [CITATION]. To gain insight into the expression pattern of the Arabidopsis Puf genes in different tissues and in response to various environmental stimuli, the transcription profiles for these genes were extracted from the microarray database [CITATION,CITATION]. Some overlap exists in the tissues/organs that exhibit maximal expression between Arabidopsis Puf genes, particularly those genes that are closely related (Table CITATION). Each of the Puf genes showed a significant change in expression pattern in response to at least one abiotic or biotic stimulus. Extensive variability exists in the type of response to these stimuli, even between genes that are closely related (Table CITATION). AtPum transcript expression based on available public database information. A homology modeling approach was used to gain insight into whether plant PUM-HDs adopt the typical crescent shaped three-dimensional structure similar to that of the PUM-HDs from human, Drosophila and yeast Puf proteins. The three-dimensional models of the AtPum2 and Os01g62650 PUM-HDs bound to BoxB of the hunchback mRNA NRE1 were constructed using the crystal structure of the PUM-HD from human Pum1 bound to the NRE1 RNA (PDB: 1M8X; [CITATION]) as a template for homology modeling. This structure was determined at 2.2 Å resolution and provides the most reliable template currently available for modeling the nature of protein:RNA interactions from plant PUM-HDs. Notably, only interactions between Puf repeats 2 to 8 and the bound RNA could be modeled, since the RNA templates for the complexes determined at high resolution only included residues 1 to 9 of Box B from NRE1 (PDB: 1M8X and 1M8W; [CITATION]). The homology models of the AtPum2 and Os01g62650 PUM-HD bound to the NRE1 indicate that plant PUM-HDs can form interactions with RNA in a manner similar to that observed in the human PUM-HD:RNA complexes (Figure CITATION, Additional file CITATION; [CITATION]). The conserved amino acid triplets at position 12, 13, and 16 of each repeat in AtPum2 and Os01g62650 (Figure CITATION, Figure CITATION) form interactions with RNA bases in the modeled structure (Figure CITATION). Most of the hydrogen bonds and van der Waals contacts formed by amino acids at positions 12 and 16 in the human PUM-HD:RNA crystal structures [CITATION] are also observed in the models of the plant PUM-HD:RNA complexes (Figure CITATION). The stacking interactions between residues at position 13 and adjacent bases are also conserved. In addition to similarities in the structures of the Puf repeats, the homology models also indicate that a region lying between the seventh and eighth Puf repeats can form an extended loop structure on the convex surface of the domain (Figure CITATION), similar to that observed in the human and Drosophila PUM-HD proteins. In Drosophila, this loop interacts with the translational co-repressors Nos and Brat [CITATION,CITATION]. Models of the plant PUM-HD bound to RNA. (A, B) Ribbon (left) and stick (right) models of the PUM-HDs of AtPUM2 (A) and Os01g62650 (B) bound to the RNA bases of Box 2 of the NRE (UUGUAUAU) that interact with Puf repeats 2 to 8. The RNA is shown as a ball-and-stick model. In the ribbon diagrams, the amino acid side chains that interact with the Watson-Crick edge of each base are shown in green, and those that provide potential stacking interactions are colored magenta. In the stick models, only the amino acid side chains that contact RNA bases are shown. The extended loop between repeat 7 and 8 is identified (*). (C, D) Sequence alignment of residues in helix 2 of repeats 1-8 that provide putative RNA contact sites on the concave surface of the PUM-HD of AtPum2 (C) and Os01g62650 (D). Numbers above the sequences represent the position of each amino acid each Puf repeat. Numbers in brackets refer to the position of the first amino acid in the complete AtPum2 and Os01g62650 polypeptide sequence. Boxes surround the amino acid residues at positions 12, 13 and 16. (E, F) Schematic diagram showing the protein:RNA contacts in the models of the AtPum2 (E) and Os01g62650 (F) PUM-HDs bound to the NRE1. Dotted lines indicate potential hydrogen bonds, dashed lines indicate potential stacking interactions, and ')))))' indicates potential van der Waals interactions. Distances between atoms indicated on the lines are indicated in Ångstroms. A similar approach was used to model the structure of the PUM-HD of AtPum13, a Puf protein that varies significantly in the identity of Puf repeat amino acid residues at positions 12, 13 and 16 (Figure CITATION). The homology model for the AtPum13 PUM-HD:RNA complex indicates that interactions between Puf repeats 6, 7 and 8 with the highly conserved UGU sequence at the centre of Box B are conserved in AtPum2 and Os01g62650 (compare Figure CITATION with Figure CITATION). However, the model also shows that the remaining AtPum13 Puf repeats fail to form many of the stacking interactions and hydrogen bond interactions that are observed in AtPum2 and Os01g62650. As a result, we predict that the binding affinity of AtPum13 for the NRE1 is lower than that of AtPum2, and AtPum13 may prefer RNA targets that are different from the NRE1 outside of the UGU core. It is also interesting to note that the AtPum13 model reveals the presence of extended loops on the convex surface of the protein between Puf repeats 2 and 3, as well as repeats 3 and 4 (Figure CITATION). Models of the AtPum13 PUM-HD bound to RNA. Ribbon (A) and stick (B) models of the PUM-HD of AtPUM13 bound to the core nucleotides of Box 2 of the NRE1 (UUGUAUAU). (C) Sequence alignment of residues in helix 2 of repeats 1-8 that provide putative RNA contact sites on the concave surface of the PUM-HD. (D) Schematic diagram showing the protein:RNA contacts in the model of the AtPum13 PUM-HD. Legend details are described in Figure 5. To determine if the AtPum2 PUM-HD binds RNA as is predicted by structural modeling, electrophoresis mobility shift assays (EMSAs) were performed. Two synthetic 19-nucleotide RNAs were used in these assays. The first was a wildtype Nanos Response Element (wildtype NRE1) that matched a region from BoxB of the hunchback NRE1 (Figure CITATION). This RNA oligonucleotide (wildtype NRE1) was identical in sequence to one used in a previous study that analyzed the binding affinity of the human PUM-HD to RNA [CITATION]. The second RNA oligonucleotide was a variant form of the NRE1 (mutant NRE1) that contained a single nucleotide change in the highly conserved core of the Puf repeat binding site (UGU to UUU). This mutant NRE1 was shown to have approximately 100-fold reduced affinity for the human PUM-HD [CITATION]. The EMSA experiments demonstrated that the AtPum2 PUM-HD bound effectively to the wildtype NRE1, whereas binding to the mutant NRE1 was significantly lower (Figure CITATION). Competition assays were performed to further demonstrate the specificity of the AtPUM2 PUM-HD interaction with wildtype NRE1. The addition of 100-fold excess concentration of cold mutant NRE1 competitor to the assay mixture only slightly reduced the binding of wildtype NRE1 to the AtPum2 Pum-HD, whereas the addition of excess cold wildtype NRE1 competitor completely eliminated any detectable interaction between the protein and the mutant NRE1 (Figure CITATION). AtPUM-HD-2 demonstrates binding specificity to wildtype NRE1. EMSAs using purified GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD and wildtype or point mutated NRE1. (A) EMSA assays using the wildtype (NRE) or mutant (G to U) NRE1 RNA oligonucleotide in the absence or presence of GST or GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD (PUM). Unbound radiolabelled RNA (Free) shifts to a high molecular weight complex when bound to GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD (Bound). The fraction of bound RNA (Bf) was determined for each reaction. 100-fold excess non-labelled mutant NRE1 was added to the reaction containing labelled WT-NRE (NRE + comp). Conversely, 100-fold excess of non-labelled wildtype NRE1 was added to the reaction containing labelled mutant NRE RNA (G to U + comp). The underlined RNA sequence corresponds to cognate RNA that interacts with repeats 1 through 8 in the Drosophila Pumilio PUM-HD. (B) EMSA titration of WT-NRE1 and increasing concentrations of GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD (PUM-HD). The protein concentrations were 0, 0.12, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.9, 7.8, 15.6, 31.3, 62.5, 125 and 250 nM. (C) The fraction of bound WT-RNA as a function of GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD from the EMSA in (B) was plotted and the dissociation constant (Kd) was determined. (D) EMSA titration of mutant NRE1 (G to U) and increasing concentrations of GST-AtPum2 PUM-HD. The protein concentrations were 0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.9, 7.8, 15.6, 31.3, 62.5, 125, 250, 500, 1000 and 2000 nM. EMSA titration experiments were conducted to determine the binding affinity of the AtPum2 PUM-HD to the wildtype and mutant NRE1. The AtPum2 PUM-HD bound to wildtype NRE with an apparent dissociation constant of 10.6 nM (Figure CITATION). This value is >10-fold higher than was observed for Drosophila Pumilio PUM-HD binding to the NRE1 (Kd~0.5 nM; [CITATION]), but within the range observed for other Puf protein interactions with their cognate RNAs [CITATION,CITATION]. The binding affinity of the protein to the mutant NRE1 was significantly lower than to wildtype RNA (Figure CITATION). Although a protein-mutant NRE1 complex was apparent at an AtPum2 PUM-HD concentration of 62.5 nM, the interaction remained weak at a protein concentration of 2000 nM, as seen by the diffuse nature of the shifted band. However, only a small amount of free RNA was present in the 1000 nM and 2000 nM samples, indicating that the low affinity binding of the AtPum-HD to the RNA resulted in a dissociation of the complex during electrophoresis. Thus, the instability of the complex did not allow for an accurate determination of the dissociation constant. However, based on the amount of free RNA in each lane, the dissociation constant value for the protein bound to mutant NRE1 appears in the range of 250 to 500 nM. To provide insight into the subcellular localization patterns of the Arabidopsis Puf proteins, several of these proteins were transiently expressed as fusions to the amino-terminus of either GFP or RFP in onion or fava bean epidermal cells. In total, nine AtPum proteins were successfully expressed as fluorescent protein fusions. Seven of the fusion proteins localized to cytoplasmic structures that were visible as puncta 0.5 microns or less in diameter (Figure CITATION to CITATION). However, large protein aggregates were occasionally observed in some cells, likely resulting from higher levels of expression of the fusion protein (Figure CITATION). In epidermal cells that demonstrated active cytoplasmic streaming, the fluorescent particles were occasionally dynamic, demonstrating stop-and-go movements that reached peak velocities of up to five microns/second (Additional file CITATION). Particle movement ceased when cells were treated with the actin destabilizing agent, latrunculin B (Additional file CITATION), indicating that the actin cytoskeleton was responsible for driving particle movement. The microtubule disrupting agent, oryzalin, did not noticeably affect the movement of the AtPum containing particles (data not shown). In addition to punctate cytoplasmic staining, strong nuclear fluorescence was often observed, and was more prevalent in cells expressing specific fluorescent protein fusions (e.g. Figure CITATION and CITATION). This observation suggested that some fusion proteins shuttle between the nucleus and cytoplasm. Nuclear localization and export may be common features for most of the AtPum proteins, as 24 out of the 26 proteins have a predicted leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES) http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetNES/, with AtPum1 and AtPum4 as exceptions. The predicted NES sequences are located in the variable amino terminal region of each protein, which in several AtPum proteins is extremely short (Figure CITATION). NES-containing proteins are dependent on CRM1 (exportin 1) for export from the nucleus [CITATION], and are sensitive to export inhibition by leptomycin B. Epidermal cells expressing each of the cytoplasmic, punctate AtPum fluorescent protein fusions shown in Figures CITATION through CITATION were treated with leptomycin B. We observed that all but one fusion protein (AtPum10-GFP) demonstrated an accumulation of fluorescent signal in the nucleus after treatment with leptomycin B (Figure CITATION, data not shown). This indicated that AtPum proteins shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus via a CRM-1 mediated pathway. Subcellular localization of AtPum proteins. Representative epifluorescence images of cells expressing AtPum proteins fused to the amino terminus of GFP or RFP in onion (A to D) or fava bean (E to I) epidermal cells. (A) AtPum7-GFP, (B) AtPum8-RFP, (C) AtPum9-RFP, (D) AtPum10-GFP, (E) AtPum12-GFP, (F) AtPum14-GFP, (G) AtPum18-RFP, (H) AtPum23-GFP, and (I) AtPum24-GFP. Arrow identifies heavily stained region that likely resulted from aggregation of protein complexes. Bar, 10 microns. Leptomycin B treatment results in an enrichment of AtPum18-RFP, but not AtPum10-GFP, in the nucleus. Bar, 10 microns. Two AtPum-fluorescent fusion proteins (AtPum23-GFP and AtPum24-GFP) had a different subcellular localization pattern from the others, demonstrating only nuclear fluorescence that was enriched within nucleolar-like structures (Figure CITATION). Co-expression of AtPum23-GFP and AtPum24-GFP with a nucleolar targeted marker protein (RFP-PRH75; [CITATION]) confirmed that these structures were indeed nucleoli (Figure CITATION). Interestingly, AtPum23 and AtPum24 are the only Arabidopsis Puf proteins with long polypeptide extensions at the carboxyl-terminal end of the PUM-HD. Nucleolar localization signals are not easily predictable; however, these signals are often enriched in the basic amino acids lysine and arginine, two amino acids that are well represented in the carboxyl-terminal regions of AtPum23 and AtPum24. These two proteins have predicted nuclear localization signals (NLS; Predict NLS, http://www.predictprotein.org/cgi/var/nair/resonline.pl). AtPum23 possesses a predicted NLS at position 688 near the carboxyl-terminal end of the protein, and AtPum24 has two predicted NLS sequences near the amino-terminal end (positions 77 and 98). AtPum23 and AtPum24 co-localize with the nucleolar marker RFP-PRH75. Bar, 1 micron. To determine whether the various AtPum proteins were segregated into distinct cytoplasmic particles, several pairs of AtPum-fluorescent protein fusions (AtPum7-GFP:AtPum18-RFP, AtPum9-GFP:AtPum18-RFP, AtPum12-GFP:AtPum18-RFP, AtPum14-GFP:AtPum18-RFP, AtPum10-GFP:AtPum8-RFP) were co-expressed in epidermal cells. Each pair of co-expressed AtPum fusion proteins co-localized within the same cytoplasmic particles (data not shown). However, there was a frequent concentration bias of either GFP or RFP fluorescence in co-localizing particles, indicating that AtPum proteins were not necessarily represented in equimolar concentrations within each particle.
!~MM~! Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) analyses were performed to identify Arabidopsis and rice genes that encode regions of the conserved PUM-HD. The amino acid sequence of the Drosophila PUM-HD (residues 1093 to 1427) [CITATION] was queried against Arabidopsis (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/seq/BlastGen/BlastGen.cgi?taxid=3702; http://rarge.gsc.riken.jp/; http://www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/osa1/) rice http://rice.plantbiology.msu.edu/index.shtml, moss (Physcomitrella patens, http://www.cosmoss.org/), and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii http://www.chlamy.org/ sequence databases using BLASTp and tBLASTn programs. Multiple sequence alignments of Arabidopsis and rice PUM-HDs were generated using ClustalX, and then manually refined in BioEdit (version 5.0.9; [CITATION]). Ambiguously aligned sites were removed from the alignment, leaving 341 amino acids that were used in the phylogenetic analysis. Three types of analyses were performed; Bayesian inference, and two methods in the maximum likelihood framework (PhyML, RAxML). The Bayesian analysis was performed using MrBayes (v3.1.2) for 20,000,000 generations with trees sampled every 1000 generations [CITATION,CITATION]. The mixed model approach was implemented with MrBayes. This allowed new models to be proposed in the course of the analysis, with multiple models potentially contributing to the posterior distribution of trees. Maximum likelihood trees were estimated using the programs PhyML [CITATION] and RAxML [CITATION]. Model selection was guided by the Akaike Information Criterion as implemented in ProtTest [CITATION]. In addition, 500 bootstrap replicates were performed using both PhyML and RAxML to assess statistical significance of the groups. Transcript expression profiles are based on microarray data available from the public databases Genevestigator [CITATION] and The Bio-Array Resource for Plant Functional Genomics (BAR) [CITATION]. The sequences of the PUM-HD from AtPum2 (At2g29190, amino acids 616-952), AtPum13 (At5g43090, amino acids 252 to 527), and Os01g62650 (amino acids 707-1043) were aligned against the sequence of the PUM-HD from human PUM1 (Hs.281707, amino acids 828-1178, Protein database ID: 1M8X). Homology models were generated by Modeller 9v2 [CITATION] using as a template the crystal structure of the PUM-HD from human Pum1 in a complex with a 14-mer RNA sequence from the NRE1-14 of the Drosophila hunchback mRNA (PDB code 1M8X, [CITATION]. The homology models were refined with CNS 1.1 [CITATION] and the quality of geometric parameters was assessed with PROCHECK [CITATION]. All backbone torsion angles were within allowed regions of the Ramachandran plot, and more than 90% of the residues were in the energetically most favored regions. Figures were prepared using PyMOL software (DeLano Scientific). PCR was used to amplify the coding regions of several Arabidopsis Puf genes. Full-length complimentary (cDNA) or genomic DNA was used as a template for PCR. Full-length cDNA clones were obtained from RIKEN and the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). For recombinant protein expression, the coding region of repeats 1' through 8' of the AtPum2 PUM-HD (amino acids 614 to 963) was amplified by PCR using oligonucleotide primers 5'CGAGGAGGATCCTTTGGATCTTCAATGCTTGAAG3' and 5'CGAGGAGGATCCGGCCATGTTGTAGAGTTCAGTTC3'. The PCR product was cloned into the BamHI and SalI sites of pGEX-6P-1 (GE Healthcare). Construction of expression vectors for AtPum subcellular localization analysis was performed using recombination or ligation based cloning of full-length AtPum coding regions into various expression vectors. Oligonucleotide primers were designed to encode the full-length AtPum protein. The PCR primers used were: AAGATGGATGAGTTTCGTGAAG and CTTCTTCAATAGATTCCTCGAGAAA (AtPum7); CACCATGATGAGAGGTGAATTTGG and ATTCTTCAAGAGATTTCGTG (AtPum8); CACCATGGGTTTTGGAGGTTTTAATG and CTTCTTCAAGATGGTCTTG (AtPum9); TGCATGGAGATTTTTAACTTCGGAC and CTTCTTCAAGATGGTCTTGGAGAAAATC (AtPum10); GAGATGGATCAGAGAAGAGGAAATG and CTTCTTCGAGCTAAGTGCGGAGAGG (AtPum12); ACCATGGACAAGAATTTTCGTG and GATATTGAGTTTCTCCAGAACTTTG (AtPum14); CACCATGGCAGTCGCTGATAATCCC and GCAACGAAGCCTAATGAGTCCAAG (AtPum18); CACCATGGTTTCTGTTGGTTCTAAATCAT and AATTCTCATTTTATTTGAATGCCGA (AtPum23); CACCATGTCTTCCAAAGGTCTGAAACCTC and TTCAGGTTTCTTGGTTGCTGAGATC (AtPum24). For recombination cloning, PCR amplified products were inserted into the pDONR221 or pENTR/D-TOPO Gateway entry vectors (Invitrogen), which were then recombined with pB7FWG2 or p2GWF7 GFP fusion destination vectors (Functional Genomics Unit, Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB-Ghent University). Ligation cloning of PCR products into the BglII and XbaI sites of pRTL2ΔNS/RFP [CITATION] was performed for RFP fusion constructs. The expression vectors used the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter to drive transcription, and either the 35S or nopaline synthase terminator sequences. The nucleotide sequence was confirmed in each expression construct by standard sequencing techniques (Quintara Biosciences, Berkeley, CA) The AtPum2 PUM-HD coding sequence in pGEX-6P-1 was expressed in E. coli strain BL21(DE3) as a fusion to the carboxyl-terminus of glutathione S-transferase (GST). Bacterial cultures were grown overnight at 37°C, diluted 1 in 100 in fresh media and grown at 37°C to an OD600 value of 0.6. IPTG (0.2 mM) was added and the cultures were incubated at 37°C for 3 hours. The recombinant protein was purified using a glutathione affinity matrix (Stratagene), and reconstituted in binding buffer (10 mM HEPES pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, 0.01% BSA, 0.01% Tween 20). Synthetic RNAs (Dharmacon) were radiolabelled using 32P-γ-ATP (3000 Ci/mmol, Perkin Elmer) and T4 polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas). Labelled RNAs were purified from free nucleotides by gel filtration chromatography (NucTrap, Stratagene). Binding reactions (30 μL volume in binding buffer) contained 200 pM of labelled RNA and varying concentrations of protein, with or without cold competitor RNA. Reactions were incubated at room temperature for one hour, and run on a 6% non-denaturing acrylamide gel (Mini Protean II, BioRad) at 100 V for 45 minutes at 4°C. Gels were dried, exposed to a storage phosphor screen for 6-12 hours, and the screens scanned using a phosphorimager (Molecular Imager FX, BioRad). Densitometry was performed using Quantity One software (version 4.5.1, BioRad), and the data was analyzed using Prism 3 software (GraphPad). To determine the fraction of protein that was bound to RNA (fraction bound, Bf), the relative pixel intensity in the bound complex band was divided by the sum of the pixel intensities in the bound complex band plus the free RNA band. GFP and RFP fusions proteins were expressed in fava bean (Vicia faba) and onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells layers using the particle bombardment technique (PDS-1000, BioRad) [CITATION]. After bombardment, leaves were incubated overnight in the dark. Epidermal cell layers were peeled from the leaves, mounted on microscope slides in distilled water, and covered with a coverglass. For drug treatments, onion epidermal cell layers were floated on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing either leptomycin B (190 ng/mL, Sigma) and latrunculin B (1 nM, BIOMOL International). Negative control peels were floated on MS medium containing an appropriate volume of the drug solvent only. Epidermal cell layers were observed through FITC or rhodamine filter sets using a Plan Fluotar 40x objective lens or a Plan Apo 63x oil immersion objective lens attached to an epifluorescence microscope (DMR, Leica). Images were captured using a cooled CCD camera (Retiga 1350 EX; QImaging). Velocity software (Version 4.3.1, Improvision) was used for capturing images and image series compilation. Adobe Photoshop software (Version 8.0, Adobe Systems Inc.) was used for image modification and assembly.
