!~ABS~! In contrast with many other essential metals, the mechanisms of Mn acquisition in higher eukaryotes are seldom studied and poorly understood. We show here that Arabidopsis thaliana relies on a high-affinity uptake system to acquire Mn from the soil in conditions of low Mn availability and that this activity is catalyzed by the divalent metal transporter NRAMP1 (for Natural Resistance Associated Macrophage Protein 1). The nramp1-1 loss-of-function mutant grows poorly, contains less Mn than the wild type, and fails to take up Mn in conditions of Mn limitation, thus demonstrating that NRAMP1 is the major high-affinity Mn transporter in Arabidopsis. Based on confocal microscopy observation of an NRAMP1-green fluorescent protein fusion, we established that NRAMP1 is localized to the plasma membrane. Consistent with its function in Mn acquisition from the soil, NRAMP1 expression is restricted to the root and stimulated by Mn deficiency. Finally, we show that NRAMP1 restores the capacity of the iron-regulated transporter1 mutant to take up iron and cobalt, indicating that NRAMP1 has a broad selectivity in vivo. The role of transporters of the NRAMP family is well established in higher eukaryotes for iron but has been controversial for Mn. This study demonstrates that NRAMP1 is a physiological manganese transporter in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! In a previous work, we showed that transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing NRAMP1 are more tolerant to iron toxicity, suggesting a role for NRAMP1 in iron homeostasis (CITATION). To directly address the physiological function of NRAMP1, we characterized an Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutant, named nramp1-1, from the SALK collection (SALK_053236). In the nramp1-1 allele, the T-DNA is inserted in the ninth exon of the NRAMP1 gene. The NRAMP1 transcript was not detectable in this line, as shown by RT-PCR (Figure 1A), indicating that nramp1-1 is a null allele of NRAMP1. We found no apparent phenotype of the nramp1-1 mutant when grown in the presence of various concentrations of iron. Since NRAMP1 is able to rescue the Mn uptake defect of smf1 yeast strain (CITATION), we investigated nramp1-1 behavior in response to Mn availability. When cultivated in vitro in a medium lacking Mn, nramp1-1 plants were paler (Figure 1B), produced 2.5-fold less biomass (Figure 1C), and showed a root growth rate up to twofold lower (Figure 1D) than wild-type plants. In the presence of an excess of Mn (750 μM) in the medium, however, the observed growth inhibition was indistinguishable between wild-type and mutant plants (Figures 1B and 1C), thus ruling out the possibility that knocking out NRAMP1 would increase the plant tolerance to Mn toxicity. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the poor growth of nramp1-1 in limited Mn availability is a consequence of an alteration of the plant Mn content, we measured metal content by inductively coupled plasma–mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) in shoots and roots of wild-type and nramp1-1 plants cultivated in vitro in either Mn-replete (20 μM) or Mn-deficient (no Mn) medium during 2 weeks (Figure 2). As expected, we observed a drastic reduction (more than threefold) in the concentration of Mn in the shoots of nramp1-1 plants grown under Mn deficiency (Figure 2A). The concentration of Mn in the roots, however, was not significantly decreased in the mutant (Figure 2A). In Mn-replete conditions, Mn content was identical in shoots of wild-type and mutant plants, consistent with the lack of a macroscopic phenotype of the nramp1-1 mutant in these growth conditions (Figure 2B). Nevertheless, roots of the mutant contained twofold less Mn than wild-type roots, even though no growth defect was detected in these conditions (Figures 1B to 1D). Because iron was shown by heterologous expression in yeast to be a substrate of NRAMP1, we tested whether Fe content was also affected in the nramp1-1 mutant. Regardless of the Mn concentration in the medium, Fe content remained essentially unaffected by the mutation (Figures 2C and 2D). Likewise, the amount of Zn or Cu was not modified in the mutant (Table 1). Cobalt concentration, however, decreased by 40% both in roots of Mn-replete nramp1-1 plants and in shoots of Mn-deficient plants, thus following the same trend as Mn (Table 1). Altogether, these results confirm that accumulation of Mn, and to a lesser extent accumulation of Co, is altered in the nramp1-1 mutant, a result that is consistent with the growth defect observed under Mn-limited conditions. [[FIGURE]] Elemental Analysis of Shoots and Roots of Wild-Type and nramp1-1 Plants (μg/g Dry Weight) To perform a complementation test, the nramp1-1 line was transformed with a construct containing NRAMP1 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Production of the NRAMP1-GFP protein in the nramp1-1 mutant was tested by immunoblot analysis on root proteins probed with anti-GFP antibodies. Among transgenic lines #4, 6, and 9 that presented a strong GFP signal in immunoblot analysis (Figure 3A), line #4 was grown hydroponically for 4 weeks under Mn-replete or -deficient conditions together with wild-type and nramp1-1 untransformed mutant plants. In replete conditions, no growth difference was observed between the plants. In the absence of added Mn, however, the phenotypic defect of nramp1-1 was clearly rescued by NRAMP1-GFP, as shown for complemented line #4 in terms of both shoot growth (Figure 3B) and root biomass production (Figure 3C). Furthermore, NRAMP1-GFP restored Mn content in the nramp1-1 mutant (Figure 3D). This result confirmed that nramp1-1 phenotypic disorders are caused by the loss of NRAMP1. [[FIGURE]] In addition to complementing nramp1-1 phenotype, the overexpression of NRAMP1-GFP provoked a hypertolerance of the plants to Mn deficiency, as shown by the size of these plants and their Mn content, both of which exceeded that of wild-type plants (Figures 3B to 3D). The finding that plants containing more of the NRAMP1 transporter are more tolerant to Mn deficiency is in good agreement with the loss of tolerance to Mn deficiency of the nramp1-1 mutant and further argues in favor of the role of NRAMP1 in improving Mn availability to plants in Mn limiting conditions. The level of expression of NRAMP1 was determined by real-time RT-PCR in the root and shoot of plants grown for 3 weeks in hydroponic culture. We found NRAMP1 transcripts to be 10 times more abundant in roots than in shoots (Figure 4A). In addition, the level of transcripts increased 2.5-fold when plants were grown in the absence of Mn (Figure 4A). We next analyzed the kinetics of response of NRAMP1 to Mn deficiency and resupply. Ten-day-old plants grown in vitro in Mn-replete conditions were transferred to Mn-deficient medium, and NRAMP1 transcript abundance was measured over time by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. After an initial decline in expression level, NRAMP1 transcript abundance slowly increased after 5 d of Mn deficiency to reach its maximal level at 7 d (Figure 4B). Upon resupply of Mn to 9-d-old Mn-starved plants, the abundance of NRAMP1 transcripts decreased down to the basal level of Mn-replete plants in 3 to 4 d (Figure 4B). We concluded that NRAMP1 gene expression is regulated by Mn availability and that the response is moderate and slow. [[FIGURE]] To determine the pattern of expression of NRAMP1 in the root, we analyzed NRAMP1 promoter activity by assessing β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity histochemically in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the uidA gene under the control of the NRAMP1 promoter. One representative line out of 10 primary transformants analyzed is shown in Figure 4C. In Mn-replete conditions, GUS activity was weakly observed along the root (Figure 4C, panel a), whereas strong GUS staining was observed in the elongation zone of the root when plants were grown under Mn deficiency (Figure 4C, panel b). A cross section in the region with the strongest staining revealed that all the cell layers are stained, including the undifferentiated vascular tissue (Figure 4C, panel c). As the root matures, GUS activity was found to fade away in all cell types, except for a pronounced staining in the vascular cells (Figure 4C, panel d) and in root hairs (Figure 4C, panel e). To identify the target membrane of NRAMP1, we followed the localization of the GFP in nramp1-1 lines producing GFP-tagged NRAMP1, a fusion protein shown above (Figure 3) to rescue the phenotype of the nramp1-1 mutant. GFP fluorescence, observed by confocal microscopy in roots of 7-d-old plants, labeled the plasma membrane of all the cell layers, consistent with NRAMP1-GFP expression being driven by the 35S promoter. Figure 5 presents the fluorescence observed in a root hair cell, which has the advantage of having well-separated plasma and vacuolar membranes that are therefore easy to distinguish. Indeed, the signal is observed on the membrane surrounding the root hair cell, which is clearly distinct from the tonoplast membrane that delineates small vacuoles visible in the bright-field picture (Figure 5, labeled v). We therefore concluded that the NRAMP1 protein is targeted to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] Both the tissue and membrane localizations of NRAMP1 were compatible with a function of Mn acquisition from the soil. To test this hypothesis, we assayed Mn uptake in wild-type and nramp1-1 mutant roots. Plants were grown in hydroponic cultures for 2 weeks in Mn-replete conditions and then transferred to a medium lacking Mn for 1 week to induce Mn acquisition systems. Following Mn resupply, the kinetics of Mn accumulation in roots were measured by atomic absorption spectrometry. We observed a strong decrease in Mn accumulation capacity in nramp1-1 roots compared with wild-type roots whose Mn content was approximately fivefold greater 10 min after Mn addition (Figure 6A). The level of Mn was restored in the complemented mutant (nramp1-1/NRAMP1-GFP line #4) (Figure 6A), indicating that NRAMP1 is required for optimal accumulation of Mn in the roots. Concentration dependence of the Mn uptake obtained in the first 10 min indicated that in Arabidopsis wild-type plants, Mn uptake is composed of (1) a saturable uptake system in the low range of Mn concentrations (up to 1 μM) and (2) a linear uptake system in the higher range, likely corresponding to high-affinity and low-affinity transport activities, respectively (Figure 6B). Compared with the wild type, Mn uptake by nramp1-1 roots was completely lost at low Mn concentrations, whereas at higher concentration of Mn, the uptake by nramp1-1 paralleled that of the wild type (Figure 6B). This indicates that the nramp1-1 mutant is defective in high-affinity Mn uptake from the root. The rate of NRAMP1-dependent uptake at low concentrations of Mn was calculated by subtracting the Mn taken up by nramp1-1 roots from that taken up by wild-type roots (Figure 6C). The data conformed to a Michaelis-Menten function and, when expressed as a double reciprocal Lineweaver-Burk plot, enabled us to calculate an apparent Km and Vmax of 28 ± 1 nM and 7.88 ± 0.01 μg/g/10 min, respectively (Figure 6C, inset). We therefore concluded that NRAMP1 catalyzes high-affinity Mn uptake in Arabidopsis roots. [[FIGURE]] Based on complementation assays in yeast metal transport-defective mutants, NRAMP1 is likely a broad-spectrum metal transporter, including at least Mn and Fe among its substrates. Several studies have shown that NRAMP1 is also upregulated by Fe deficiency (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). However, whether NRAMP1 is capable of transporting Fe in vivo cannot be tested easily due to the presence of functional IRT1, whose very strong Fe uptake activity in conditions of Fe limitation is likely to mask a defect of Fe uptake in the nramp1-1 mutant. We therefore designed a complementation assay in which HA-tagged NRAMP1, expressed under the control of the iron deficiency–inducible, root epidermis–specific IRT1 promoter, was transformed into the loss-of-function mutant irt1-1. This HA-NRAMP1 fusion protein was shown to be functional based on the restoration of the growth defect of the nramp1-1 mutant in low Mn (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Since absorption of Fe, Zn, Mn, and Co is impaired in irt1-1 in Fe-limited conditions (CITATION), this mutant was used as a plant test tube to investigate the selectivity of NRAMP1 in planta. Immunoblot analysis using anti-HA antibody as a probe confirmed the accumulation of HA-NRAMP1 in roots specifically when grown under Fe deficiency, as shown here for two transgenic lines (Figure 7A). As expected, irt1-1 plants developed poorly compared with wild-type plants when grown on soil (Figure 7B) or in vitro in iron-limited conditions (Figure 7C). Expression of NRAMP1 driven by the IRT1 promoter partially restored irt1-1 growth (Figures 7B and 7C), suggesting that NRAMP1 can rather efficiently replace IRT1 when produced in IRT1 cell territories. [[FIGURE]] We next investigated whether the NRAMP1 transgene could restore irt1-1 metal content by analyzing elemental content in NRAMP1-complemented irt1-1 plants. In this experiment, 10-d-old plants were transferred to Fe-free and low Mn medium to (1) induce IRT1 promoter activity and (2) provide nutritional Mn conditions adapted for optimal transport activity of NRAMP1. Ectopic expression of NRAMP1 in irt1-1 led to, on average, 60% greater root Fe content compared with untransformed irt1-1 (Figure 7D). In such Fe-depleted conditions, Fe accumulation was as low in roots of wild-type plants as in irt1-1. It is thus remarkable that transgenic NRAMP1-complemented irt1-1 lines are more efficient at extracting Fe from the soil than wild-type plants. Consistent with its function in Mn uptake, NRAMP1 restored Mn level in the roots of irt1-1 (Figure 7C). Similar to Fe, however, the Mn-deficient growth condition prevented plants from accumulating large amounts of Mn, thus minimizing the difference of Mn content both between the wild type and irt1-1 mutant and between irt1-1 mutant and NRAMP1-complemented irt1-1 lines. Indeed, when the same experiment was performed in the presence of a 10-fold higher Mn concentration in the culture medium, Mn entry into NRAMP1-complemented irt1-1 lines increased up to threefold compared with irt1-1 (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Cobalt and zinc are also substrates of IRT1 and are therefore drastically reduced in irt1-1 roots. Co content was corrected to up to 33% by complementation with NRAMP1 (Figure 7C). Interestingly, although NRAMP1 fails to complement the Zn transport-defective yeast mutant Δzrt1 Δzrt2 (CITATION), we measured a slight but statistically significant increase of Zn content in NRAMP1-complemented irt1-1 lines. This increase, however, restored <10% of the irt1-1 Zn accumulation defect (Figure 7C). Cu, which is not transported by IRT1, is shown here as a negative control of the experiment. In addition, measurement of metal content in shoots of these plants did not reveal significant differences (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), probably owing to the initial 10-d period of growth in conditions of metal sufficiency that efficiently rescues the irt1-1 mutant phenotype. Altogether, these data reveal that, in addition to Mn, NRAMP1 is capable of transporting Fe, Co, and, to a lesser extent, Zn into the root.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia-0, except for the irt1-1 mutant isolated in the Wassilewskija ecotype background) were grown in vitro in sterile conditions at 21°C with 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles. Seeds were surface sterilized and sown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1% sucrose and either 0.6% agar for horizontal cultures or 1% agar for vertical cultures. The medium was buffered with 0.5 g·L−1 MES, and its pH was adjusted to 5.7 with KOH. When indicated, metals were subtracted from the microelements solution to enable deficiency tests. All reagents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. For hydroponic cultures, Arabidopsis plants were grown hydroponically in a controlled environment (8 h light 23°C/16 h dark 20°C cycles, 300 μE·s−1 light intensity, 70% relative humidity) for the amount of time indicated in the legend of the figures in a nutrient solution containing 0.25 mM Ca(NO3)2, 1 mM KH2PO4, 0.5 mM KNO3, 1 mM MgSO4, 50 μM Fe(III)-Na-EDTA, 50 μM H3BO3, 18 μM MnSO4, 1 μM CuSO4, 10 μM ZnSO4, and 0.02 μM MoO4Na2. The pH was adjusted to 5.5 with MES. The nutrient solution was renewed weekly for the first 2 weeks and every 2 d from the third week on. For the uptake assay, the solution was also renewed the day before the assay. The pH stability of the culture medium was verified regularly. For growth in soil in the greenhouse, plants were cultivated on Humin substrate N2 (Neuhaus) at 23°C with a sunlight intensity limited to 300 μmol·m−2·s−1 and 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles. The nramp1-1 mutant was isolated as a T-DNA insertion mutant line SALK_053236 from the SIGnAL T-DNA collection (http://signal.salk.edu/). Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the GV3101 strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens according to the floral dip protocol (CITATION). Transformed seeds were selected based on resistance to either kanamycin (50 mg·L−1) for the ProNRAMP1:GUS construct, Basta (10 mg·L−1) for the 35S:NRAMP1-GFP construct, hygromycin (50 mg·L−1) for the ProIRT1:HA-NRAMP1 construct, or based on the fluorescence of the seeds (http://www.isv.cnrs-gif.fr/jg/alligator/intro.html) for the 35S:HA-NRAMP1 construct in the pFP101 vector. Plants grown vertically on square Petri dishes were scanned at the indicated times, and root length was determined using the OPTIMAS V6.0 program. Continuous variables were expressed as means ± sd. Statistical differences between the genotypes were evaluated by performing a Student's t test (P < 0.001). For nramp1-1 complementation tests, NRAMP1 cDNA was amplified by PCR using primers OCC1 (5′-ATAAGAATGCGGCCG CATGACTAGTATGGCGGCTACAGGATCTGGAC-3′), encompassing the ATG initiation codon, and OCC2 (5′-ATAGTTTAGCGGCCGCTCAGTCGACGCTAGCGTCAACATCGGAGGTAGAT-3′), encompassing the TGA stop codon. Both primers introduce a NotI site at the fragment extremities. In addition, OCC1 introduces an in-frame NheI site immediately downstream the NRAMP1 ATG initiation codon. The amplified fragment was cloned into the NotI site of the pFL61 yeast expression vector. A two-copy fragment of the hemagglutinin epitope (HA) carrying XbaI extremities was subsequently inserted in the NheI site of the resulting construct to produce NRAMP1 protein tagged with HA at its N terminus (construct pFL61/HA-NRAMP1). The HA-NRAMP1 cassette was then subcloned as a blunt fragment into the blunted SalI site of the pFP101 plant stable expression vector downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter (http://www.isv.cnrs-gif.fr/jg/alligator/). For the 35S:NRAMP1-GFP fusion construct, the NRAMP1 cDNA was amplified without its stop codon and cloned into the pDNOR 207 entry vector (Gateway; Invitrogen) as part of the ORFEOME project (http://urgv.evry.inra.fr/orfeome/). NRAMP1 cDNA was subsequently fused with GFP by recombination with the destination vector pG0229-GFP (CITATION) to generate a C-terminal GFP fusion of NRAMP1 protein. For the ProNRAMP1:GUS construct, 1.65 kb of genomic sequence located upstream of the NRAMP1 initiation codon was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis BAC F23A5 using primers OCC42 (5′-AATCATGTCTTAAGCTTCATTAC-3′) and OCC44 (5′-GCCGCCATGGCCGTCTCTCTC-3′), introducing a HindIII site and a NcoI site, respectively. The amplified promoter fragment was translationally fused to the uidA gene, encoding GUS, by cloning into the HindIII and NcoI sites of the pGUS vector (CITATION). The ProNRAMP1-GUS cassette was then subcloned as a HindIII-XbaI fragment into the pBIN19 plant binary vector (CITATION) opened with the same restriction sites. For construction of the ProIRT1:HA-NRAMP1 plasmid for complementation of the irt1-1 mutant, 990 bp of the IRT1 sequence upstream of the ATG were cloned in the pCHF3 vector as an EcoRI-BamHI fragment in place of the CaMV35S promoter. The EcoRI-HindIII fragment of the resulting plasmid, containing the IRT1 promoter and the RbcS terminator, was subcloned into the same restriction sites of the pGreen179 binary vector, which confers hygromycin resistance in transgenic plants. The polylinker sites in 5′ of the IRT1 promoter, situated between the NotI and EcoRI sites, were then eliminated to generate pGreen179/ProIRT1. The HA-NRAMP1 NotI fragment digested from the pFL61/HA-NRAMP1 construct described above was inserted as a blunt fragment into the Klenow-blunted BamHI site of pGreen179/ProIRT1 in between the IRT1 promoter and the RbcS terminator to produce the ProIRT1:HA-NRAMP1 construct. ProNRAMP1:GUS transgenic lines were grown in hydroponics under Mn-deficient (no added Mn) conditions. Plants were harvested after 2 to 4 weeks, soaked in phosphate buffer (50 mM NaPO4 and 0.05% Triton X-100, pH 7.2), and then prefixed by vacuum infiltrating the plants for 45 min in phosphate buffer containing 4% formaldehyde. After three washes in phosphate buffer, samples were incubated 16 h at 37°C in GUS buffer containing 50 mM NaPO4, 0.5 mM ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, 0.05% Triton X-100, pH 7.2, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide. Samples were then either cleared with successive baths of increasing ethanol concentrations from 50 to 100% for direct observation or embedded in hydroxyethylmethacrylate (Technovit 7100; Heraus-Kulzer). Thin cross sections (3 μm) were cut using a Leica RM 2165 microtome, counterstained with the Schiff dye, and observed with an Olympus BH2 microscope. Total RNA was extracted using the TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's instructions. Samples were treated with DNase (Promega) to eliminate genomic DNA contamination. Three micrograms of DNA-free RNA was used for reverse transcription by the MMLV-RT (Promega) with anchored oligo(dT23). Real-time PCR was performed using the LightCycler FastStart DNA MasterPLUS SYBR GREEN I (Roche), using the following gene-specific primers: Actin-F, 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′; Actin-R, 5′-AACGACCTTAATCTTCATGCTGC-3′; At NR1-F, 5′-GTAGCCACTTCTCTTCTTATTTCAAG-3′; and At NR1-R, 5′-ACCTTTATTCTAGTACACTATCGAAAG-3′. Primer specificity was confirmed by analysis of the melting curves and agarose gel electrophoresis of the PCR products. Relative transcript levels were calculated relative to the transcript amount of the constitutively expressed ACT2 gene (At3g18780) as follows: RTL = 1000*2−ΔCt. Total proteins were extracted by grinding 100 mg of tissue in 300 μL of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, 5% SDS, 5% β-mercaptoethanol, 25 mM EDTA, and 0.1% phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) in liquid nitrogen, followed by centrifugation at 4°C for 15 min at 14,000g. Thirty micrograms of total proteins were separated on SDS-PAGE gel and electroblotted to a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences). Membranes were blocked overnight in 1× PBS, 0.1% Tween 20 containing 0.2% blocking reagent (Aurora protein gel blot chemilumiescence detection system; ICN Biochemicals). Immunodetection of NRAMP1-GFP was performed using rabbit polyclonal anti-GFP antibodies (A6455; Invitrogen) at 1:3000 dilution for 1 h at room temperature. Immunodetection of HA-NRAMP1 was performed using a mouse anti-HA monoclonal antibody (12CA5; Roche Applied Science) at a 1:4000 dilution. IgG conjugated to alkaline phosphatase (Promega) was used as a secondary antibody. Alkaline phosphatase activity was revealed by incubating the membranes in chemiluminescent AP substrate (Millipore) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Membranes were exposed to BioMax XAR films (Kodak). Mn uptake assays were performed on plants grown hydroponically in Mn-replete conditions for 2 weeks and then transferred to Mn-free medium for 1 week for optimal NRAMP1 expression/activity. At t0, Mn-starved plants were transferred to medium containing 18 μM MnSO4, and roots were harvested at the time points indicated in the figure. Root samples were washed for 10 min at 4°C in 2 mM CaSO4 and 10 mM EDTA to remove apoplastic Mn and avoid active efflux of the metal as described by CITATION. Samples were rinsed three times in water, paper blotted, and placed into preweighed Pyrex tubes for mineralization. Roots were desorbed by washing for 10 min with 2 mM CaSO4 and 10 mM EDTA and for 3 min with 0.3 mM bathophenanthroline disulphonate and 5.7 mM sodium dithionite and were then rinsed twice in deionized water. Shoots were simply rinsed twice with deionized water. Samples were dried at 80°C for 2 d. For mineralization, tissues were digested completely (1 to 3 h) in 70% HNO3 at 120°C. For Mn uptake assays, Mn measurement was performed by atomic absorption spectrometry (SpectrAA220-FS; Varian). For phenotypic analysis of the mutants, elemental analyses were performed by ICP-MS. nramp1-1 lines transformed with the NRAMP1-GFP construct were grown vertically in half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium for 7 d. GFP fluorescence was observed using a confocal microscope (LSM510 Meta; Zeiss). The excitation wavelength was 488 nm, and emission wavelength was between 500 and 530 nm. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under accession numbers At1g80830 (NRAMP1), At4g19690 (IRT1), and At3g18780 (ACT2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Overproduction of NRAMP1-HA Rescues nramp1-1 Hypersensitivity to Mn Deficiency. Supplemental Figure 2. NRAMP1 Partially Rescues Metal Content in the irt1-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 3. Overproduction of HA-NRAMP1 Rescues nramp1-1 Hypersensitivity to Mn Deficiency. Supplemental Figure 4. NRAMP1 Promoter Activity Increases in Response to Fe Deficiency.
