!~ABS~! The organization of plant microtubule arrays is thought to be regulated by phosphorylation and other signaling cascades, but the molecular components involved are largely unknown. We have previously found that a dominant missense mutation (phs1-1) in a putative kinase-docking motif of an Arabidopsis PHS1 phosphatase, which belongs to the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase (MKP) family, compromises the stability of cortical microtubules. We here report that suppressor screening of phs1-1 recovered several intragenic recessive mutations in PHS1. In contrast to our previous report, null alleles of PHS1 were almost indistinguishable from the wild type in morphology, but their roots skewed to the abnormal direction when grew in the presence of low doses of a microtubule-destabilizing drug. PHS1 is mainly expressed in elongating cells, where the protein was distributed in the cytoplasm, predominantly in a microsomal fraction. Recruitment of green fluorescent protein-tagged PHS1 in endomembrane aggregates after treatment with brefeldin A or in an endomembrane-organization mutant suggests that an association with endomembranes retains PHS1 in the cytoplasm. A nuclear export signal identified in the C-terminal tail also contributes to the robust cytoplasmic retention of PHS1.
!~RES~! We first screened F2 populations with mutagenized phs1-1 in the presence of 3 μM propyzamide, a microtubule-destabilizing agent, for suppressors that showed substantial root growth. Thirteen suppressors contained mutations within the PHS1 gene, and thus were putative intragenic suppressors (Fig. 1a; Table 1). Likely null alleles, phs1-7 and phs1-8, respectively, had a mutation at the splicing acceptor junction and a premature stop codon in the middle region, and lacked large parts of PHS1 including the phosphatase domain. The mutants showed efficient suppression of the phs1-1 phenotypes and grew like wild-type plants (data not shown). Other mutants (phs1-9–phs1-18) had exchanges of amino acids in the regions conserved between Arabidopsis PHS1 and its putative rice orthologs, and may be functionally important. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] We next obtained three new T-DNA insertion alleles (phs1-4 and phs1-5) and a transposon insertion allele (phs1-6) from Arabidopsis stock centers (Fig. 1a; Table 1). The previously reported T-DNA insertion allele (phs1-2) was initially embryonic lethal in the homozygous state (Naoi and Hashimoto CITATION), but repeated backcrossing to the wild type yielded a homozygous line which grew normally. We speculate that another mutation genetically linked to the PHS1 locus was responsible for the embryonic lethality observed in the original phs1-2 plants. Since these four putative null alleles of PHS1 gave similar, wild-type-like phenotypes, we chose the phs1-5 allele for further characterization. Immunoblot analysis with an anti-PHS1 antibody showed that no PHS1 protein was detectable in the cell extract of phs1-4 and phs1-5 seedlings (Fig. 1b), confirming that these phs1 mutants are null alleles. In the presence of propyzamide at concentrations of 1–3 μM, wild-type roots slanted to the left, while the growth of phs1-1 roots was severely inhibited (Fig. 1c, d; Naoi and Hashimoto CITATION). The phs1-5 roots were indistinguishable from the wild-type roots in the absence of the drug, but in the presence of propyzamide at 1–3 μM grew significantly more slowly than wild-type roots. At 3 μM, the growth of the phs1-5 roots on the hard agar slanted to the right, the opposite direction to the wild-type skewing, when viewed from above (Fig. 1c, e). The same results were obtained for another null allele phs1-4 (data not shown). Thus, null alleles of PHS1 are almost indistinguishable from the wild type, with a conditional phenotype reminiscent of a slightly compromised organization of cortical microtubules. To examine the tissue- and cell-type specificity of PHS1 expression, we inserted the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene just before the stop codon of the 7.9-kb PHS1 gene containing a 1.1-kb 5′-upstream region and a 2.6-kb 3′-downstream region (Fig. 2a), and introduced the reporter construct into wild-type Arabidopsis plants. When the GUS activity was histochemically stained for 40 min, the strongest staining was observed at the root tip of light-grown seedlings (Fig. 2b). Longer incubation, for 48 h, revealed that expanding young true leaves and the base of hypocotyls were also stained, as well as faint staining in cotyledons (Fig. 2b). The GUS activity was observed in the etiolated hypocotyl of dark-grown seedlings 2–4 days after germination (2–4 dag) where rapidly elongating regions shifted from the basal region to the apical region (Gendreau et al. CITATION). The GUS staining maximum was seen in the basal region at 2 dag, shifted to the middle of hypocotyls at 3 dag, and was observed in the uppermost region at 4 dag (Fig. 2c). In mature plants, the GUS activity was seen in restricted tissues, such as the stigma, the anther, the receptacle, and base of the pedicel (Fig. 2d). The GUS staining patterns indicate that strong PHS1 expression is partly correlated with rapid cell elongation. [[FIGURE]]  To study the subcellular localization of PHS1, we inserted GFP just before the stop codon of PHS1 in the 7.9-kb genomic region that was used for the gene expression analysis, and introduced it into the wild-type or phs1-1 Arabidopsis plants. Genomic regions of the wild-type PHS1 gene and the PHS1 gene with the R64C phs1-1 mutation were used, and the respective transgenic lines are referred to as gPHS1WT-GFP and gPHS1R64C-GFP. Several independent transgenic lines were established for both constructs, and results for representative lines are shown here. When gPHS1WT-GFP was expressed in phs1-1, the transgenic plants fully complemented the root twisting and propyzamide hypersensitive phenotypes of phs1-1 (Fig. 3). When introduced into the wild-type plants, the gPHS1WT-GFP plants were morphologically indistinguishable from wild-type plants (data not shown), whereas the gPHS1R64C-GFP plants reproduced a weak left-handed helical growth phenotype and propyzamide hypersensitivity as seen in the phs1-1 mutant (Fig. 3). These results indicate that the GFP fusion proteins are functional. [[FIGURE]]  Figure 4a shows confocal images of the root, where GFP signals were excluded from the nucleus and the vacuole. In gPHS1WT-GFP cells, GFP signals were distributed uniformly in the cytoplasm, while the cytoplasmic distribution of gPHS1R64C-GFP was somewhat uneven, with occasional foci of stronger GFP signals. [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether PHS1 is associated with endomembranes in the cytoplasm, we prepared microsomal and soluble protein fractions from gPHS1WT-GFP plants. Immunoblot analysis showed that PHS1WT-GFP was abundant in the microsomal fraction compared to the soluble fraction (Fig. 4b). This distribution pattern was similar to that of the tonoplast-localized v-ATPase, and differed from that of the soluble phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. When Arabidopsis roots were treated with 50 μM brefeldin A (BFA), PHS1WT-GFP was partially associated with the BFA bodies (Fig. 4c). Recruitment to the BFA bodies was clearly seen in the BFA-treated root cells of gPHS1R64C-GFP plants. We also expressed the PHS1WT-GFP protein transiently in the epidermal cells of the kam1 mutant which was defective in the organization of endomembranes (Tamura et al. CITATION), and observed that PHS1WT-GFP accumulated in large aggregates of endomembranes and was excluded from the nucleus (Fig. 4d). These results collectively indicate that PHS1 is a cytoplasmic phosphatase and is weakly or transiently associated with endomembranes, and that the R64C mutation may enhance the association. In addition to its association with endomembranes, PHS1 may use other strategies to be retained in the cytoplasm. To explore the possibility that PHS1 may be actively excluded from the nucleus, we examined the presence of nuclear export signals (NESs) in PHS1. In our transient assays, test proteins were fused to GFP and expressed in protoplasts from leaf mesophyll cells. The GUS-GFP control protein was found in the cytoplasm, but when a nuclear localization signal (NLS) was fused to GUS-GFP, it was efficiently transported to the nucleus (Fig. 5). As in the stable transformants, PHS1-GFP was distributed in the cytoplasm. Interestingly, addition of the functional NLS to PHS1-GFP did not result in efficient relocalization of the NLS-containing protein to the nucleus, indicating that an active mechanism competes with the NLS-mediated nuclear targeting and mostly retains PHS1-GFP-NLS in the cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]]  When protoplasts were treated with 400 nM leptomycin B (LMB), an inhibitor of Arabidopsis Exportin 1, PHS1-GFP-NLS and GFP-NLS-CHS-NES (a control protein containing both a NLS and an established NES; Haasen et al. CITATION) were effectively retained in the nucleus, whereas PHS1-GFP was not (Fig. 5). Therefore, PHS1 contains a cryptic NES that is normally masked by a LMB-independent cytoplasmic retention mechanism. To identify this cryptic NES in PHS1, we tested various deletion mutants of PHS1 that were all fused to the NLS-containing GFP (Fig. 6a). First, when N-terminal, central, and C-terminal fragments of PHS1 were tested, only the C-terminal fragment fused to GFP-NLS was excluded from the nucleus. Next, the C-terminal region containing the MKP phosphatase domain was further truncated at either its N-terminus or C-terminus. The smallest PHS1 fusion construct that was excluded from the nucleus was PHS1750−929, which contained a part of the phosphatase domain and the C-terminal tail. A further truncated version, PHS1750−900, was retained in the nucleus, indicating that the C-terminal tail of 29 amino acid residues was necessary for the NES activity. [[FIGURE]]  We then manually inspected the C-terminal tail for the presence of a putative NES sequence, and found that the sequence I902QKALAELKL911 in PHS1 largely conforms to the NES consensus sequence L-X(2,3)-[LIVFM]-X(2,3)-L-X-[LI], where X(2,3) represents any two or three amino acids except proline (Bogerd et al. CITATION; Kosugi et al. CITATION). When two leucine residues (L906 and L909) predicted to be important for NESs (Kosugi et al. CITATION) were simultaneously mutated to alanines in PHS1750−929, the mutated PHS1LA fragment was retained in the nucleus (Fig. 6a). Furthermore, when the same mutations were introduced into the full-length PHS1, the LA mutant version of PHS1-GFP-NLS was efficiently recruited to the nucleus (Fig. 6b). However, when the exogenous NLS motif was not added, the LA mutant of PHS1-GFP was predominantly found in the cytoplasm. These results suggest that PHS1 is normally retained in the cytoplasm by an NES-independent mechanism and that the cryptic NES in the C-terminal tail functions when PHS1 is recruited to the nucleus to ensure a constant and robust cytoplasmic distribution.
!~MM~! Seedlings were grown on vertically placed plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, 1% sucrose, and 1.5% agarose at 22°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle or in the dark. The Columbia (Col-0) ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana was used in all experiments, except when indicated otherwise. The T-DNA- or transposon-tagged mutants, phs1-2, phs1-4, phs1-5, and phs1-6 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (OH, USA). All T-DNA and transposon insertion sites were confirmed by DNA sequencing of PCR-amplified products using gene-specific and T-DNA/transposon primers. The phs1-4 and phs1-5 alleles were backcrossed three times to wild type before characterized. Propyzamide (Wako, Kyoto, Japan) was diluted in DMSO to prepare a 10 mM stock solution. phs1-1 seeds were mutagenized by 0.3% ethyl methanesulfonate for 16 h. M2 seedlings were first screened for wild-type root growth in the presence of 3 μM propyzamide. Next, the PHS1 coding region of all candidate suppressors was sequenced to identify second-site mutations in addition to the original R64C mutation. We recovered 13 intragenic suppressor mutants and more than 30 putative extragenic suppressor mutants. An 8.4-kb genomic fragment including the PHS1 locus has been cloned in the pUC19 vector (Naoi and Hashimoto CITATION). PHS1 genes were first amplified by inverse PCR to insert the SmaI and SacI sites in place of the stop codon. PCR amplification was used to attach SmaI and SacI sites to the ends of coding sequences of GUS and GFP, which were subsequently inserted before the original stop codon of the PHS1 genes in pUC19. The PHS1-GUS and PHS1-GFP genes were then amplified with appropriate primers to introduce the Nhe1 and EcoRI sites, and cloned into the pBIN19 binary vector. Primer sequences used are provided in a supplementary file (Table S1). The sequences of all final clones were confirmed. The resulting binary vectors were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain harboring pMP90, and Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). At least three independent homozygous transgenic lines were analyzed for each construct. Root tips of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings were stained with propidium iodide (2 μg/ml; Sigma-Aldrich) for 10 min. Stock solutions of brefeldin A (Sigma-Aldrich) and FM4-64 (Invitrogen) were prepared at 10 mg/ml in DMSO and 1 mg/ml in distilled water, respectively. Root tips were first treated with brefeldin A (50 μM) in half-strength MS medium for 60 min, and then incubated with brefeldin A (50 μM) and FM4-64 (1 μg/ml) for 30 min. Specimens were observed by using a confocal microscope (D-ECLIPSE C1; Nikon) with Argon laser excitation (488 nm) for PHS1-GFP or with He/Ne excitation (544 nm) for staining with propidium iodide and FM4-64. To create a pUC19-based destination vector, in which expression of the GFP-fused constructs is driven by the CaMV 35S promoter, the Gateway plasmid pGWB5 (Nakagawa et al. CITATION) was cleaved with ClaI and ligated to AccI-digested pUC19. The NLS of simian virus 40 large T-antigen was generated in the destination vector by PCR with overhang primers so that the NLS was fused behind the GFP sequence. Fragments of the PHS1 coding sequence or the GUS sequence were amplified by PCR and cloned in the pDONR Zeo donor plasmid (Invitrogen) by the BP reaction. The L906A-L909A mutation was introduced into PHS1 by an inverse PCR-based method. Donor vectors were then transferred to the GFP-containing or GFP-NLS-containing destination vectors by the LR reaction. Protoplasts were isolated from leaves of 4-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis plants, and were transfected with test plasmids according to a published protocol (Yoo et al. CITATION). Transfected protoplasts were incubated for 14 h in the dark, pretreated in 1% formaldehyde for 50 min, and stained with Hoechst 33342 at 5 μg/ml (Invitrogen) for 20 min. A leptomycin B stock solution (25 μM) in ethanol was added to the protoplast preparations to a final concentration of 400 nM. Images were obtained with a Nikon Eclipse E1000 fluorescence microscope. GFP was excited as described above, whereas Hoechst 33342 was excited at 365–380 nm, and the whole emission spectrum was captured as an RGB image, from which the blue fraction was separated using ImageJ software. Etiolated hypocotyls of wild-type Arabidopsis plants and the kam1-2 mutant were co-transfected with the PHS1-GFP and mCherry plasmids and by using the PDS-1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad), and incubated for 14 h in a wet Petri dish in the dark. Transfected cells were observed with a Nikon D-ECLIPSE C1 confocal microscope as a stack of confocal sections across the cell cortex in 0.9-μm intervals, with Argon laser excitation (488 nm) for GFP and with He/Ne excitation (544 nm) for mCherry. A Strep Tag II sequence was inserted between the HRV 3C cleavage site and the multiple cloning site of pCOLD-TF (Takara Bio) by PCR, and the full-length PHS1 cDNA was introduced between the XhoI and SalI sites. The recombinant TF-StrepII-PHS1 protein was expressed in the E. coli strain BL21 (DE3). The TF tag was cleaved off with Prescission protease (GE Healthcare), and the resulting StrepII-PHS1 was purified on Strep-Tactin Sepharose beads (IBA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. PHS1 antisera were produced in rabbits by Hokkaido System Science, and purified by two-step chromatography, involving a protein A agarose gel column (Roche) and an affinity column in which the PHS1 antigen was covalently coupled to the NHS-activated Sepharose 4 Fast Flow beads (GE Healthcare). To analyze accumulation of PHS1 protein in mutants, 7-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were homogenized in a glass homogenizer containing 1 volume of extraction buffer (0.1 M Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 20% glycerol, and 4% SDS), and centrifuged briefly to remove cell debris. Protein samples (30 μg each) were separated on a 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel, and blotted onto a PVDF membrane (Pall). After the blot was first probed with an affinity-purified anti-PHS1 antibody at a 1:50 dilution, it was stripped and re-probed with an anti-β-tubulin antibody (TUB2.1: Sigma) at a 1:1,000 dilution. For the secondary antibodies, an anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase-linked IgG antibody (Amersham Biosciences) was used at a 1:5,000 dilution. Peroxidase activity was detected with Immobilon Western Chemiluminiscent HRP Substrate (Millipore) as described by the manufacturer. The whole protein fraction, microsomal fraction and soluble fraction were obtained as described by Tamura et al. (CITATION). After the blot was first probed with an anti-GFP antibody (250 ng/ml; Clontech), it was stripped and re-probed with an anti-PEPC antibody (200 ng/ml; Millipore) or an anti-v-ATPase antibody (400 ng/ml). For the secondary antibodies, an anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-linked IgG antibody was used at a 1:7,500 dilution for GFP, whereas an anti-rabbit version (GE Healthcare) was used for PEPC, v-ATPase and PHS1 at a 1:7,500 dilution. Whole seedlings or inflorescence stems were submerged in the GUS staining solution and stained as reported (Nakajima et al. CITATION). After being processed through a series of ethanol solutions, specimens were mounted onto a microscope slide, and observed with an OLYMPUS SZX12 microscope.
