!~ABS~! Glutathionylation of compounds is an important reaction in the detoxification of electrophilic xenobiotics and in the biosynthesis of endogenous molecules. The glutathione conjugates (GS conjugates) are further processed by peptidic cleavage reactions. In animals and plants, γ-glutamyl transpeptidases initiate the turnover by removal of the glutamate residue from the conjugate. Plants have a second route leading to the formation of γ-glutamylcysteinyl (γ-GluCys) conjugates. Phytochelatin synthase (PCS) is well known to mediate the synthesis of heavy metal-binding phytochelatins. In addition, the enzyme is also able to catabolize GS conjugates to the γ-GluCys derivative. In this study, we addressed the cellular compartmentalization of PCS and its role in the plant-specific γ-GluCys conjugate pathway in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Localization studies of both Arabidopsis PCS revealed a ubiquitous presence of AtPCS1 in Arabidopsis seedlings, while AtPCS2 was only detected in the root tip. A functional AtPCS1:eGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) fusion protein was localized to the cytosolic compartment. Inhibition of the vacuolar import of GS-bimane conjugate via azide treatment resulted in both a strong accumulation of γ-GluCys-bimane and a massive increase of the cellular cysteine to GS-bimane ratio, which was not observed in PCS-deficient lines. These findings support a cytosolic action of PCS. Analysis of a triple mutant deficient in both Arabidopsis PCS and vacuolar γ-glutamyl transpeptidase GGT4 is consistent with earlier observations of an efficient sequestration of GS conjugates into the vacuole and the requirement of GGT4 for their turnover. Hence, PCS contributes specifically to the cytosolic turnover of GS conjugates, and AtPCS1 plays the prominent role. We discuss a potential function of PCS in the cytosolic turnover of GS conjugates.
!~RES~! GS conjugates are transported to the vacuole, where they are degraded. The catabolism of GS conjugates may also occur in the cytoplasm. As PCS is known to catabolize GS conjugates to the γ-GluCys derivative, it is a prime candidate for mediating an alternative metabolic pathway for GS conjugates in the cytosol. MCB is a model xenobiotic that has successfully been used to track the catabolism of GS-bimane conjugates in planta (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). MCB is typically conjugated to GSH in the cytosol and subsequently sequestered in the vacuole. In order to evaluate the consequence of inhibiting the vacuolar sequestration of MCB, we treated cells with azide, a potent inhibitor of F-ATPases (CITATION) and of ABC transporters (CITATION; CITATION). Confocal images of MCB-challenged cell suspension cultures of Arabidopsis show that the rapid accumulation of the fluorescent signal in the vacuole was prevented in the presence of azide (Fig. 2A), as has been reported in earlier studies (CITATION; CITATION). We used feeding experiments with MCB in the presence of azide to assess whether blocking the uptake of bimane conjugates into vacuoles results in a conversion of the GS conjugate in the cytoplasm. To analyze the effect of azide on GS-bimane turnover, the optimal azide concentration was established. In the concentration range tested from 1 μm to 1 mm azide, an enhanced turnover of GS-bimane to γ-GluCys-bimane could be observed, with a maximum at 1 mm azide yielding 8.5% γ-GluCys-bimane of total bimane-labeled compounds compared with 0.5% γ-GluCys-bimane without azide 30 min after MCB challenge (Fig. 2, B and C). Interestingly, the conversion level of the GS conjugate to the Cys adduct was higher in the presence of 0.3 mm azide compared with noninhibited cells (Fig. 2B). In the presence of 0.3 mm azide, Cys-bimane accounted for 36% of bimane-labeled compounds, while total recovery dropped to approximately 40% in comparison with untreated cells. The lower recovery of inhibited cells may reflect stimulated secretion of bimane derivatives. Vital staining of cells with fluorescein diacetate provided no evidence for the loss of cellular integrity by azide treatment (Supplemental Fig. S1A). The determination of cellular GSH contents in the presence of various azide concentrations did not show significantly altered GSH/oxidized glutathione levels (Supplemental Fig. S1B). Subsequent time-course experiments revealed maximum γ-GluCys-bimane levels 30 min after a pulse of MCB challenge (Fig. 3, A and B). Arabidopsis cells exposed to azide yielded a 23-fold elevated γ-GluCys-bimane level compared with the control (13.9% and 0.6% of total bimane derivatives, respectively). Azide treatment (1 mm) did not prevent the degradation of GS-bimane to Cys-bimane in wild-type (Fig. 2B) and PCS-deficient cells (Fig. 3C). Suspension cells of the PCS double knockout ΔPCS, however, showed no increase in γ-GluCys-bimane levels (Fig. 3D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] These data are consistent with an efficient PCS-dependent generation of the cleavage product in the cytosol. The GS to Cys conjugate conversion is slowed down in ΔPCS compared with the wild type in the presence of azide (Fig. 3C); however, the conversion in ΔPCS is little affected in the absence of the inhibitor (CITATION), indicating a compensatory turnover of the xenobiotic in the vacuolar compartment. GGT4 has been identified as the critical player in the turnover of GS conjugates in the vacuole (CITATION). To determine the contribution of vacuolar and cytosolic pathways to GS-bimane catabolism, we compared the GS-bimane conversion in the ΔGGT4 knockout mutant, the ΔPCS double mutant, and the triple mutant ΔPCSΔGGT4. Homozygous mutant and wild-type seedlings were infiltrated with MCB, and GS-bimane degradation was subsequently analyzed (Fig. 4). The GGT4 deficiency strongly inhibited GS conjugate catabolism and resulted in an approximately 10-fold decrease in Cys-bimane levels, while PCS deficiency in the ΔPCS line marginally affected Cys-bimane levels (Fig. 4A). The triple mutant and the ΔGGT4 line yielded comparable GS and Cys conjugate levels, but the γ-GluCys-bimane level was approximately 5-fold lower in the PCS-deficient triple mutant. CysGly-bimane levels were approximately 2-fold lower in GGT4-deficient lines (Fig. 4B). The comparative analysis corroborates the importance of the vacuolar GGT4 for efficient GS- to Cys-bimane catabolism. We conclude that PCS plays a major role in the metabolism of GS conjugates in the cytosol but only a minor role in the catabolism of GS conjugates that are efficiently sequestered in the vacuole. [[FIGURE]] AtPCS1 initiates the GS conjugate catabolic pathway that presumably occurs in the cytosol. The enzyme, however, has not explicitly been shown to reside in the cytosol. To address this open question, Arabidopsis plants expressing PCS:eGFP (enhanced GFP) chimeric proteins were generated by in-frame fusion of the reporter gene to the last exon of the AtPCS1 and AtPCS2 genes (Fig. 5A). The AtPCS1:eGFP and AtPCS2:eGFP constructs encompass endogenous promoter sequences and the coding regions of the PCS genes. Transient expression analysis of AtPCS1:eGFP revealed a GFP signal in Arabidopsis protoplasts similar to cytosolic GFP expression under the control of a constitutive promoter (Fig. 5B). Similar experiments with AtPCS2:eGFP did not yield detectable GFP signals, consistent with no or a very low AtPCS2 expression in leaf cells. Subsequently, the fusion constructs were introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia) as well as in a mutant deficient in AtPCS1 (ΔPCS1) and in the double PCS knockout line, ΔPCS. For AtPCS1:eGFP, 10 independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines were identified in the wild-type background (WT-P1 L1–L10) and seven each in ΔPCS1 (ΔPCS1-P1 L1–L7) and in the double knockout (ΔPCS-P1 L1–L7). Similarly, independent PCS2:eGFP transformants were recovered in the wild type (WT-P2 L1–L10) and in PCS-deficient lines (ΔPCS-P2 L1–L13). Lines were selected for a 3:1 segregation of kanamycin resistance in the F2 progeny, indicative of a single T-DNA insertion site, and used in further experiments. [[FIGURE]] To assess the functionality of the AtPCS1:eGFP fusion, we tested its ability to rescue the mutant phenotype of the ΔPCS1 line, deficient in phytochelatin (PC) biosynthesis and impaired in GS conjugate catabolism. As AtPCS2 mutants have no reported phenotype, our complementation analysis focused on AtPCS1-deficient plants. Three ΔPCS1 lines homozygous for the AtPCS1:eGFP integration (L1, L6, and L7) were analyzed with respect to PC synthesis and cadmium tolerance (Fig. 6, A and B). Seedlings of these lines challenged to Cd2+ showed full restoration of PC synthesis, and generation of PC2, PC3, and PC4 occurred as in the wild type (Fig. 6A). The cadmium concentration chosen for induction of PC synthesis (50 μm) is just sufficient to impose a mild growth inhibition of wild-type roots in the range of 20% (Fig. 6B). At 100 μm Cd2+, residual growth was approximately 60% for the wild type and for both AtPCS1:eGFP lines, while ΔPCS1 showed only 9% of the control without cadmium. Expression of the PCS fusion protein restored cadmium tolerance in ΔPCS1 and also recovered catabolism of GS conjugate comparable to wild-type plants (Fig. 6, C and D). Turnover of the fluorescent GS-bimane conjugate in Arabidopsis generates γ-GluCys-bimane as a transient catabolite, primarily by the action of AtPCS1 (CITATION). Protoplasts of the wild type, ΔPCS1, and three complemented ΔPCS1 plants were challenged with MCB and had γ-GluCys-bimane levels accounting for approximately 5.6%, 0.8%, 8.8%, 3.0%, and 3.0% of all recovered GS-bimane and bimane derivatives, respectively (Fig. 6C). The level of γ-GluCys catabolites is increased in the presence of PCS-activating heavy metal ions (CITATION). Under such conditions, γ-GluCys-bimane constituted 13.3% of all recovered bimane conjugates in wild-type seedlings 4 h after exposure to MCB (Fig. 6D). In contrast, the γ-GluCys-bimane level in ΔPCS1 was below 0.5%, whereas in the PCS-expressing ΔPCS1 lines, the concentration increased to 4.2%, 5.8%, and 8.8%, respectively. Taken together, these findings document a successful complementation of ΔPCS1 by AtPCS1:eGFP. [[FIGURE]] PCS might be a soluble or a membrane-associated protein. To address the issue of intracellular localization of AtPCS1, cell-free extracts of AtPCS1:eGFP-expressing seedlings were separated into a soluble protein fraction and a microsome-enriched fraction by differential centrifugation. Comparable protein levels from both fractions were analyzed for the presence of the tagged AtPCS1 protein by immunodetection (Fig. 7). The AtPCS1 fusion protein was primarily detected in the soluble protein fraction at a molecular mass of approximately 80 kD, which corresponds to the sum of 55 kD for AtPCS1 and 26 kD for eGFP. The microsomal fraction yielded low levels of AtPCS1:eGFP, possibly due to a weak interaction of the fusion protein with membranes or to a contamination of the fraction with soluble proteins, as observed for the GFP control and indicated by the presence of Rubisco (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] Analyses of PCS:eGFP expression by confocal imaging revealed a major difference between AtPCS1- and AtPCS2-expressing lines. AtPCS1:eGFP was readily detectable throughout the seedling (Fig. 8, A–D). In contrast, the AtPCS2:eGFP signal was consistently low in more than 20 independent transgenic lines analyzed, and the fusion protein was only detected in the root tip, preferentially in the tunica (Fig. 8, E–G). The low expression levels of AtPCS2, however, might have prevented the detection of the fusion protein in other parts of the seedling and also made it difficult to assess the intracellular localization of AtPCS2, other than to say that it resembled that of AtPCS1 described below (Fig. 9). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtPCS1 was predominantly expressed in the epidermal layers of the shoot and root, including root hairs, but weakly expressed in guard cells (Figs. 8 and 9A). In epidermal cells, AtPCS1:eGFP was found in the cytosol, where it could be seen in the cytoplasmic strands of the highly vacuolated cells (Fig. 9A). Comparison of the AtPCS1:eGFP lines with marker lines in which GFP is targeted to specific organelles (CITATION) pointed to a similarity to soluble GFP, which is found in the cytosol (Fig. 9B). The only difference observed was that whereas soluble GFP can be clearly detected in the nucleus of the control line, the AtPCS1:eGFP fusion was not found in the nucleus. In some of the primary transformants, AtPCS1:eGFP labeled diffuse reticulate structures in addition to the cytosol. The analysis of meristematic, largely avacuolate cells of the root tip supported a cytosolic localization of AtPCS1 (Fig. 9, C and D).
!~MM~! For Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation and protoplast preparation, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were grown in pots on a perlite-soil mixture at 23°C under long-day conditions with 16 h of light (250 μE m−2 s−1). Transient transfection of protoplasts was carried out as described (CITATION). The transformation of wild-type and mutant plants (CITATION) was carried out using the Agrobacterium strain GV3101pMP90 as described (CITATION). For the construct AtPCS1:eGFP, 10 independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines were identified in the wild-type background (WT-P1 L1–L10) and seven each in ΔPCS1 (ΔPCS1-P1 L1–L7) and in the double knockout (ΔPCS-P1 L1–L7). Similarly, independent AtPCS2:eGFP transformants were recovered in the wild type (WT-P2 L1–L10) and in PCS-deficient lines (ΔPCS-P2 L1–L13). F2 seeds, obtained from selfed transformants, were examined for segregation of the kanamycin resistance marker in a ratio of 3:1, indicative of a single insertion site. Plants of such lines were selected, and nonsegregating, homozygous lines were used in the experiments. The transgenic Arabidopsis line expressing cytoplasmic GFP (CITATION) was a gift from Farhah Assaad. The ΔGGT4 knockout line (CITATION) was obtained from the Ds transposon insertion lines (CITATION) at the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk; stock no. N161036). Crossing ΔPCS with ΔGGT4 was performed to generate the triple mutant ΔPCSΔGGT4. Plants homozygous for all three homozygous mutations were screened among the F2 generation by PCR using AtPCS- and AtGGT4-specific primers as described (CITATION; CITATION). Seedlings were raised under sterile conditions on agar-containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) solution (CITATION) and used for induction of PC synthesis and confocal fluorescence microscopy analysis. Cell cultures of Arabidopsis were maintained as reported (CITATION). All chemicals and standards used were of analytical grade. MCB (Calbiochem; http://www.emdbiosciences.com) was dissolved in acetonitrile to yield a 100 mm stock solution. For the MCB levels used, no inhibitory effect of acetonitrile was observed on the growth of cell suspension cultures. All experiments were carried out in duplicate or triplicate and reproduced in at least two independent analyses. The genes encompassing the coding regions of AtPCS1 and AtPCS2 were amplified from genomic DNA and fused upstream of the eGFP cDNA present in a modified version of the plasmid pEZT-NL (http://deepgreen.stanford.edu/), containing a 10-Ala residue-encoding linker (a gift from Ram Yadav). The primers 5′-TATATATAGGCGCGCCATGGCTATGGCGAGTTTA-3′ and 5′-TATATATAGACGTCGCATAGGCAGGAGCAGCG-3′ were used for AtPCS1 amplification and 5′-TATATATAGGCGCGCCATGTCTATGGCGAGTTTG-3′ and 5′-TATATATAGACGTCGCAGGAGCAGAGAGTTCT-3′ for AtPCS2. The promoter sequences (2 kb) of AtPCS1 and AtPCS2 were amplified from genomic DNA by PCR and using the primers 5′-TATATAGGATCCATGTAGGGAATCTGAGAACC-3′/5′-TATATAACGCGTAGAAAGAGCATTCAACACC-3′ and 5′-TATATAGGATCCTGGCCCAATATGTTGTTTCC-3′/5′-TATATAAGATCTCTCACCAACAACTAAACTTG-3′, respectively. The endogenous promoter sequences were cloned upstream of the PCS:eGFP construct using the unique endogenous restriction sites MluI in AtPCS1 and BglII in AtPCS2. The expression cassettes AtPCS1:eGFP and AtPCS2:eGFP were excised via BamHI and SacI and integrated into a modified pSK (pSK-AscI) and thereafter to a modified pBI121 (pBI121-AscI) via AscI restriction (CITATION). Arabidopsis seedlings were raised on agar-solidified MS plates and used for stress exposure and MCB labeling experiments 5 d after germination. For the analysis of PCs, seedlings were transferred to 20 mL of liquid MS medium containing 50 μm Cd(NO3)2 and incubated for 48 h prior to extraction and HPLC analysis. Cadmium sensitivity was examined by determination of root growth within 3 d after transfer of the seedlings on MS plates containing up to 100 μm Cd(NO3)2. For the analysis of bimane conjugates, seedlings were vacuum infiltrated for 10 min in MS medium containing 5 μm MCB. Arabidopsis protoplasts were prepared from 3-week-old rosette leaves as described (CITATION), and approximately 5 × 104 protoplasts (0.5 mL) were incubated with 5 μm MCB for 4 h prior to extraction of bimane derivatives (CITATION). For experiments with azide (NaN3), 9.6 g (fresh weight) of Arabidopsis cell culture material was transferred to 100 mL of fresh Linsmaier and Skoog medium (CITATION) and allowed to recover for 24 h. The cells were preincubated with 1 mm azide for 5 min, subsequently pulsed with 5 μm MCB for 1 min, washed (25 mL), and then incubated in MCB-free medium in the presence or absence of azide as indicated. Aliquots of 10 mL of cell suspension were removed at different time points. Harvested plant material (0.3 g fresh weight) was used for extraction of bimane derivatives, and the remaining material was used for the determination of dry weight. For analysis of the GSH and oxidized glutathione content, 30 mg of cell material was transferred to 0.2 mL of 20 mm Tris-Cl buffer, pH 8, and homogenized by sonification for 15 min. After centrifugation, the cell-free supernatant was incubated (1 h, 37°C) with or without 1 mm dithiothreitol (DTT). The samples were diluted 1:10 with the Tris-Cl buffer (total volume of 50 μL) and incubated with 1 mm MCB (30 min, 37°C). The pH value was adjusted to approximately 3 by administration of 3 μL of 0.36 m HCl prior to HPLC analysis (see below). GS-bimane and its catabolites were analyzed by HPLC (Summit ASI-100; Dionex; http://www.dionex.com) as reported (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, seedlings (0.15 g fresh weight) were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to powder, and the material was incubated with extraction buffer (80 mm Gly, 20 mm NaCl, and 10 mm EDTA, pH 3). Protoplasts (5 × 104) were directly lysed in 0.4 mL of extraction buffer. Precipitated proteins were removed by centrifugation (10 min, 16,000g), and the deproteinated extract was subjected to HPLC analysis (CITATION). PCs were analyzed by online derivatization of sulfhydryl groups with Ellman reagent (CITATION). For immunodetection of eGFP-tagged AtPCS1, protein extracts from Arabidopsis seedlings were analyzed essentially as reported for fibrillin (CITATION). Briefly, transgenic seedlings (0.1 g fresh weight) were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to powder, and the material was incubated for 10 min in 0.4 mL of homogenization buffer (50 mm Tris-Cl, pH 8, 10 mm DTT, 1 mm 4-[2-aminoethyl]-benzolsulfonylfluoride, and 2% SDS). Cell debris was separated by centrifugation (10 min, 16,000g), and the supernatant was subjected to acetone precipitation (80% final acetone level). After centrifugation (10 min, 7,500g), the protein pellets were washed with 80% acetone, resuspended in 100 μL of sample buffer (60 mm Tris-Cl, pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 10% glycerol, 100 mm DTT, and 0.05% bromphenol blue), and heated for 5 min at 95°C. Separation of protein samples was carried out by SDS-PAGE using a 4% stacking gel and a 12% separation gel, followed by western-blot analysis with mouse anti-eGFP antibodies (dilution 1:1,000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology; http://www.scbt.com/) and goat anti-mouse secondary antibodies (dilution 1:10,000; Thermo Scientific Pierce; http://www.piercenet.com/). Signals were detected using the Pierce Super Signal West Femto Trial Kit (Thermo Scientific Pierce) and a CCD camera (Hamamatsu Photonics; http://www.hamamatsu.com). For eGFP analysis in transgenic plants, 5-d-old seedlings were examined using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Fluoview FV1000; Olympus; http://www.olympus-global.com). A 40× water-immersion 0.9 numerical aperture objective (Olympus) was used, and scanning was carried out with 2-fold or without electronic magnification. Images were acquired and processed with the Fluoview FV1000 acquisition software. Three-dimensional projections of Z stacks of GFP expression in seedlings were generated with the Imaris 6.3 software (Bitplane Scientific Software; http://www.bitplane.com). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Effect of azide on Arabidopsis suspension cells.
