!~ABS~! Protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation is a central post-translational modification in plant hormone signaling, but little is known about its extent and function. Although pertinent protein kinases and phosphatases have been predicted and identified for a variety of hormone responses, classical biochemical approaches have so far revealed only a few candidate proteins and even fewer phosphorylation sites. Here we performed a global quantitative analysis of the Arabidopsis phosphoproteome in response to a time course of treatments with various plant hormones using phosphopeptide enrichment and subsequent mass accuracy precursor alignment (MAPA). The use of three time points, 1, 3 and 6 h, in combination with five phytohormone treatments, abscisic acid (ABA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellic acid (GA), jasmonic acid (JA) and kinetin, resulted in 324 000 precursor ions from 54 LC-Orbitrap-MS analyses quantified and aligned in a data matrix with the dimension of 6000 × 54 using the ProtMax algorithm. To dissect the phytohormone responses, multivariate principal/independent components analysis was performed. In total, 152 phosphopeptides were identified as differentially regulated; these phosphopeptides are involved in a wide variety of signaling pathways. New phosphorylation sites were identified for ABA response element binding factors that showed a specific increase in response to ABA. New phosphorylation sites were also found for RLKs and auxin transporters. We found that different hormones regulate distinct amino acid residues of members of the same protein families. In contrast, tyrosine phosphorylation of the Gα subunit appeared to be a common response for multiple hormones, demonstrating global cross-talk among hormone signaling pathways.
!~RES~! To accurately determine phosphorylation dynamics related to the effect of hormones, three time course treatments of Arabidopsis cell suspension were analyzed for three biological replicates. We analysed three time points (1, 3 and 6 h) in combination with five phytohormone treatments: abscisic acid (ABA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellic acid (GA), jasmonic acid (JA) and kinetin. The tryptic peptides were subjected to phosphopeptide enrichment and subsequently analyzed using a high mass accuracy LC-OrbiTrap mass spectrometry system. We have recently developed a strategy called mass accuracy precursor alignment (MAPA) (CITATION). This strategy combines high sample throughput and rapid data validation and interpretation with typical properties of shotgun proteomics to detect low-abundance alkaline and/or barely soluble proteins such as transcription factors or membrane proteins as well as protein modifications such as peptide phosphorylation. Using MAPA and the corresponding algorithm ProtMax, 324 000 precursor ions in 54 LC-Orbitrap-MS analyses were quantified and aligned, resulting in a data matrix dimension of 6000 × 54. The whole strategy is described in detail in Figure 1. Subsequent multivariate statistical analysis of this data matrix enabled the comparison of common and distinct phosphoprotein responses dependent on the respective phytohormone treatment. Figure 2 shows an independent components analysis (ICA) of the quantitative proteomic phenotypes of the Arabidopsis cell cultures treated with the five phytohormones and an untreated control at each time point. Treatments and measurements were performed three times independently; the effects of the hormones could be reproducibly determined, i.e. the proteomic phenotypes of biological replicates were in close proximity (see also Figure S1). The effects of the treatments themselves were clearly separated in a time-dependent manner, with the changes becoming more pronounced over time and maximal at 6 h. Proteomics phenotypes after treatment are shown for each phytohormone individually. Sample patterns from the ICA show each hormone separated from the control as well as changes appearing over time, indicating that hormone-specific effects and developmental processes can be separated from one another. The ABA treated samples were separate from the control on IC02, and JA-, GA and kinetin-treated samples were separate from the control on IC01. The third and fourth components (IC03 and IC04) identify temporal changes in control and ABA-, GA- and kinetin-treated samples, respectively. Similarly, the first and second components (IC01 and IC02) depict the time course for control, IAA- and JA-treated samples. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The ICA revealed that different hormones elicit distinct responses in Arabidopsis cell cultures. The loadings of the ICA that correspond to the phosphorylated peptides allow ranked assignment of protein sets to the observed pattern, and are directly related to the importance of the proteins in the biological phenomena (CITATION). To identify protein phosphorylation changes in response to various hormones, the CID spectra corresponding to the top 100 loadings of the ICA were subjected to a database search. Only precursor ions that were identified in all three biological replicates were considered. Our phosphoproteome analysis identified over 2000 peptides, which were ultimately assigned to around 500 unique peptide sequences. Of a total of 136 proteins corresponding to 152 phosphopeptides identified as differentially phosphorylated, 13 proteins were identified by more than two unique peptides, and 123 proteins were supported by a single peptide identification. Furthermore, we found that over 85% of the responsive phosphoproteins are from the plasma membrane, and <15% are cytosolic proteins, indicating that most of them are primary responsive proteins. By quantitative analysis, the spectral count showed that <2% represent contamination from endomembranes, in agreement with experimentally determined contamination of plasma membrane preparations using stable isotope labeling (Table S1) (CITATION). All mass spectra and metadata for the identified proteins are stored in the public mass spectral reference database ProMEX, and can be further used for mass spectral match and peptide identification in new samples (CITATION). To understand the biological processes and cellular components involved in hormone responses in Arabidopsis cells, gene ontology (GO) analyses were performed for the responsive phosphoproteins, including both differentially up- and down-regulated proteins at each time point. As shown in Figure 3, the differentially regulated phosphoproteins had different distributions among the GO categories. Phosphopeptides of kinases were significantly enriched for nearly all treatments, consistent with the role of hormones as triggers of signal transduction cascades. Many differentially phosphorylated proteins are involved in protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation, including various families of kinases, receptor-like kinases (RLKs) and protein phosphatases. A set of specific read-outs for every hormone pathway is essential for dissecting the specific mechanisms of response to each hormone, the interactions among hormones, and the relationship between hormones and specific physiological effects. Comparison of the phosphorylated proteins for each of the treatments showed some phosphorylation targets common to all of the hormones, as well as some proteins whose phosphorylation state changes differentially for different hormones, thus demonstrating hormone-specific phosphorylation (see Venn diagram in Figure 4). Peptides found in the intersection for a particular hormone and not regulated by any other hormone in this study are specific responsive phosphopeptides. These proteins included some well-characterized proteins, such as ABA-responsive element binding proteins and auxin transporters (PIN) induced by IAA. However, many other specific responsive proteins have no known function and have not been previously associated with a hormone pathway. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Our screen found 25 phosphopeptides corresponding to 21 genes that are regulated by hormones. In total, nine RLKs were identified by our approach, including two phosphorylation sites that had not been described previously (CITATION). The nine RLKs were differentially phosphorylated. Seven phosphorylation sites for leucine-rich repeat RLKs (LRR-RLKs) were identified. The phosphorylation state of two LRR kinases (AT3G02880.1 and AT2G36570.1) was increased at a C-terminal site by ABA and decreased by the other hormones after 1 h. In addition, another site in the kinase domain of AT3G02880.1 displayed increased phosphorylation after 1 h of IAA treatment. Kinase AT1G75640.1 showed increased phosphorylation at Ser591 in the C-terminus after 1 h of GA treatment, which suggests that the activity of this LRR-RLK could be GA-dependent. The SRF7 receptor kinase showed an increase in phosphorylation in the intracellular juxtamembrane domain (the linker between the transmembrane domain and the kinase core) for all treatments after 1 h. Another phosphopeptide from the intracellular juxtamembrane domain of SRF6 kinase showed a more moderate increase in response to IAA alone. It has been reported that the unphosphorylated juxtamembrane domain binds to the N-terminal sequence of the kinase, maintaining it in an inactive conformation; thus phosphorylation of the juxtamembrane domain could activate the kinase (CITATION). This domain is highly variable among RLK family members, indicating that there may be individual regulatory responses. In addition, four phosphorylation sites were found for three soluble protein kinases. Protein kinase AT5G46570.1 showed a decrease in phosphorylation in the N-termimal region after being exposed to IAA and kinetin, whereas a significant increase was detected for the other hormones after 1 h. Phosphorylation of protein kinase AT1G01540.1 was increased at two sites in the kinase domain after 6 h by GA and JA. Six isoforms of calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) were identified with more than two phosphorylated peptides. At least one isoform was found for each time point, indicating a significant role in phytohormone-dependent signal transduction. A peptide assigned to one isoform of CDPK32 was identified as the highest loading of IC04 for ABA. It was highly induced by ABA 6 h after treatment. CPK1 (AT5G04870.1) showed a strong increase in phosphorylation only after 1 h of kinetin treatment, indicating involvement in early signaling in response to kinetin. Four new phosphorylation sites were identified for isoform AT5G24430.1. Those at Ser55 and Ser59 in the N-terminus were up-regulated by IAA and JA at 1 h, and remained at a constant level over extended time periods. However, phosphorylation of another new site at Ser123 was increased at 3 h and reduced to half of the control level at 6 h by IAA and JA. This peptide was also induced by GA after 6 h. A previously described site in the N-terminus (Ser29) showed dephosphorylation in response to all of the hormones. Interestingly, the 4th new site (Ser353) in the kinase domain of AT5G24430.1 displayed a slight increase in phosphorylation in response to ABA and GA after 1 h, followed by a strong increase after 3 h. In contrast, CDPK19 showed similar phosphorylation levels when treated with IAA at both 1 and 3 h. Phosphorylation at Ser509 in the C-terminus of CDPK9 was increased after 1 h of GA treatment, peaked at 3 h, and returned to the control level at 6 h. Phosphorylation of CDPK9 was initiated by ABA treatment after 1 h, peaked at 3 h and then decreaseed. However, the expression level at 6 h was still higher than that of the control, suggesting that that the signal cascades differ between GA and ABA responses. It appears that CDPK9 is involved in cross-talk between GA and ABA signaling. ABA- and GA-dependent plant development may be promoted through distinct signaling pathways that converge at the level of CDPK9. However, further work is needed to dissect this mechanism. On the other hand, the results suggest that the CDPK isoforms may be involved in various pathways in response to hormones, and demonstrate the functional divergence of proteins despite similar primary structure. Several studies have reported that ABA activation of protein kinases led to phosphorylation of ABA-responsive element binding proteins (AREBs) (CITATION; CITATION). In this study, we identified a phosphopeptide of CDPK32 that was responsive to ABA. Phosphorylation of kinases is often a key regulatory event in the downstream response. Genetic evidence in yeast showed that the SNF1 regulatory domain binds to the kinase domain, and SnRK kinase activity is regulated by the SNF1 regulatory domain (CITATION). A phosphorylation site was identified for AREB2 at Ser45 in the N-terminal part of the protein, and its phosphorylation was induced by ABA after 1 h. A similar phosphopeptide was found for AREB3 in the N-terminus of this protein. ABA-dependent phosphorylation of AREBs has been suggested previously (CITATION). Here, we describe conclusive identification of a phosphorylation site in the N-terminus of an AREB family protein. Moreover, this potential phosphorylation site is conserved in the N-termini of all Arabidopsis bZIP-type AREBs, suggesting that N-terminal phosphorylation maybe a common way to regulate AREB activity or affinity. The differentially phosphorylated proteins identified here show that ABA-activated protein kinases directly trigger phosphorylation of AREBs in response to ABA. These findings demonstrate a direct link between signaling components and transcriptional regulators in the ABA response. The largest functional group regulated by the hormone treatments comprised 35 genes encoding transport proteins (corresponding to 38 phosphopeptides). They can be divided into three sub-groups: ion transport proteins (ATPases, potassium and chloride channels and sodium transporters), peptide transporters, auxin transporters, sugar/monosaccharide transporters and ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters. Phosphorylation of transporters is known to influence the activities of ion channels at plasma membranes, initiating a downstream response. Of the 20 phosphopeptides for ion transporters, the phosphorylation state of eight was regulated by one or two hormones. For example, the potassium transporter KUP5 and the sodium transporter SOS1 were regulated by ABA, another potassium transporter KUP7 and the sodium transporter NHX were regulated by IAA, while two peptides for chloride transporters were regulated by IAA and kinetin. A magnesium transporter was regulated by JA alone, while phosphorylation of a high-affinity nitrate transporter was found to be down-regulated exclusively by ABA. One phosphorylation site at Ser488 in the C-terminus of ammonium transporter AMT1 was up-regulated by GA and JA. AMT1 is one of the high-abundance phosphoproteins in our analysis: more than 130 times phosphopeptides were identified for this protein. Phosphorylation of the well-described phosphorylation site at the C-terminus of AHA1 was found to be increased by GA and IAA. A very similar phosphopeptide was identified for AHA2, and showed decreased phosphorylation by ABA and JA and complete dephosphorylation by kinetin. In fact, all Arabidopsis H+-ATPases except AHA10 and AHA12 possess this threonine as a conserved potential phosphorylation site in their C-terminus. Previous studies suggested that phosphorylation of this site was increased by sucrose (CITATION) demonstrating that C-terminal phosphorylation may be a common way to regulate ATPase activity or affinity. Two genes encoding Ca2+-ATPases (ACA8 and ACA10) were regulated by at least one hormone. ACA8 was another highly abundant phosphopeptide in ABA-treated samples. The spectral count for two peptides phosphorylated at Ser27 and Ser29, respectively, in the N-terminal region increased with the duration of hormone treatment and reached its peak after 6 h of ABA supply. It has been reported that this region is responsible for pump regulation through a calmodulin binding domain (CITATION). Phosphorylation of the Ca2+-ATPase could increase the Ca2+ concentration and thus activate Ca2+-dependent K+ and Cl− channels. Furthermore, Ca2+ is well known as a ubiquitous intracellular second messenger in plants, and an increase in the cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ modulates a diverse array of signals and responses. The second sub-group includes four PIN-formed auxin transport proteins (PIN1, PIN3, PIN4 and PIN7). Four phosphorylation sites were found for these proteins, one for PIN1 at Ser282 which was phosphorylated at 6 h after IAA supply, one for PIN3 (Ser274 in the N-terminal region of the protein), one for PIN4 (Ser395 in the N-terminal region) and one for PIN7 at Ser276. The relative amounts of the latter two phosphopeptides increased slightly after 1 h of ABA and IAA supply, and reached a maximum after 6 h. The time course of the phosphorylation changes for PIN3, with a significant specific increase after 1 h and a slight decrease after 3 h of IAA supply, suggests that addition of external hormone led to rapid opening of the auxin transporter and a subsequent adaptation response. There is ample evidence that hormones regulate genes that are involved in the metabolism of other hormones (Achard et al., 2003; CITATION). Therefore, the regulation of auxin transporters indicates extensive cross-talk and signal integration among growth-regulating hormones. Recently, it was reported that auxin flux is regulated by PINOID kinase-mediated phosphorylation of PIN proteins (CITATION). ENP (ENHANCER OF PINOID) is also suggested to control PIN1 polarity in concert with PINOID. In this study, we found that NPH3, which belongs to the same kinase family as PINOID and functions as a signal transducer in the lateral translocation of auxin (CITATION), was phosphorylated in an IAA-dependent manner. ENP was also phosphorylated following IAA treatment. Consequently, we conclude that IAA activated ENP, which in turn phosphorylated PIN, and so acts on the cell polarity of auxin signaling pathways, as summarized in Figure 5. [[FIGURE]] In those cases in which the site of phosphorylation could be determined, it is indicated by pS for phosphoserine, pT for phosphothreonine, or pY for phosphotyrosine. If the phosphorylation site could not be unambiguously determined, this is indicated by small letters in parentheses. The peptides were ordered by protein functional classification in accordance with Figure 3, and peptides in the same category are ordered by the accession number. The protein cellular localization was performed using Gene Ontology program (http://www.geneontology.org) (GO). Seven PGP/MDR belonging to the ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter super-family were also differentially phosphorylated. Of nine ABC transporters identified in this study, five were regulated by at least one, and two by two or more hormones after 3 h. The results of sequence alignment indicate that all of the regulated phosphorylation sites are located in the central unconserved linker domain (Figure 6), whose function in CFRT protein as a regulator of transport activity through phosphorylation (CITATION) is well established. In addition, channel gating was controlled by kinase-dependent phosphorylation. As that most phosphorylation changes of the PGPs were observed after 3 h, and some kinases were induced shortly after treatment as indicated above, hormones may activate protein kinases leading to phosphorylation of ABC transporters and thereby regulating pump activity. [[FIGURE]] Tyrosine phosphatase 1 (AT1G71860.1), which was shown recently to be required for ABA-dependent processes in Arabidopsis cell suspensions (CITATION), showed increased phosphorylation in the N-terminal domain after ABA and GA supply. Phosphorylation of protein phosphatase 2C was found to be increased at Ser119 in a conserved catalytic domain by ABA and GA after 1 h. One phosphopeptide of the F-box protein AT4G19930.1 was shown to be differentially phosphorylated by IAA and GA. Recent studies demonstrated that phosphorylation of F-box proteins could trigger formation of the Skp1/Cullin/F-box (SCF) complex and E3 ligase activity (CITATION). A single phosphorylation site of the well-known ER membrane phosphoprotein calnexin was exclusively induced by GA. Phosphorylation of calnexin is known to increase the concentration of calnexin in the proximity of the translocon and facilitate the translocation and folding of glycoproteins (CITATION). These data indicate that GA-induced phosphorylation activates efficient trafficking in the ER.
!~MM~! Proteinase inhibitor cocktail, phosphatase inhibitor cocktail, phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 2 and all hormones were purchased from Sigma (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). Lysyl endopeptidase Lys-C was purchased from Wako (http://www.wakousa.com), Poroszyme® immobilized trypsin was purchased from Applied Biosystems (http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/), C18 solid-phase extraction cartridges were purchased from Varian (http://www.varianinc.com), trypsin (sequencing grade, modified) was purchased from Roche (http://www.roche.com), and titanium dioxide was purchased from Glygen (http://www.glygen.com). Other chemicals (buffers, salts, sugars etc.) were obtained from Merck (http://www.merck.com), ROTH (http://www.carlroth.de), Roche or Sigma. A heterotrophic Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension, established from callus of ecotype Columbia (Col-0), was cultured in JPL medium as previously described (Droillard et al., 2002) at 23°C in an orbital shaker under constant light. On the 7th day, each flask contained approximately 25 g fresh weight of cells, and growth was in the mid log phase. At this stage, sub-culturing was performed by adding 20 ml of culture to 200 ml of fresh medium. All experiments were started on the 6th day after sub-culturing. Abscisic acid (ABA), gibberellic acid (GA), jasmonic acid (JA, jasmonate), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA, auxin) and kinetin (cytokinin) were added to 220 ml of cultured cells to a final concentration of 100 μm, and controls were treated with an equal volume of methanol. The cells were harvested 1, 3 and 6 h after exposure to the phytohormones. Harvesting was performed directly from the flask onto filters on sintered columns, and the medium was removed by suction. The cells were washed using a double volume of distilled water, dried by suction for 2 min, and flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen. Proteins were extracted from ground cells using a modification of a protocol described by CITATION. The tissues were incubated in 2.5 ml of protein extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES/KOH, 40% w/v sucrose, 1%β-mercaptoethanol, 50 mm NaF, 0.1% proteinase inhibitor cocktail, 0.1% phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 1 and 0.1% phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 2, pH 7.5) per mg of fresh weight in a 15 ml reaction falcon tube. Three volumes of chilled water-saturated phenol were added, and the incubation mixture was shaken for 30 min at 4°C. After centrifugation at 4000 g and 4°C for 8 min, the soluble proteins were in the upper phenolic phase. The phenolic phase was removed and the proteins were precipitated overnight in five volumes of ice-cold acetone. After centrifugation at 4000 g and 4°C for 10 min, the pellets were washed briefly three times with ice-cold methanol. The dried protein pellets were resolved in 8 m urea, 100 mm NH4HCO3 by gentle shaking at room temperature for 5 min and stored at −80°C. Protein abundance was estimated by the Bradford method (CITATION). For the purification of plasma membranes, 25 g of cells were homogenized in a blender with 60 ml extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES/KOH pH 7.5, 0.25 m sucrose, 10% w/v glycerol, 0.6% w/v PVP K-25, 5 mm EDTA, 1 mm PMSF, 5 mm DTT, 1 mm ascorbic acid, 1 mm benzamidine, 50 mm NaF, 0.1% proteinase inhibitor cocktail, 0.1% phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 1 and 0.1% phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 2). The homogenate was filtered through a layer of nylon cloth (240 μm), and the filtrate was centrifuged for 10 min at 8000 g at 4°C. The pellet was discarded, and the supernatant was centrifuged for 60 min at 31 000 g at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of suspension buffer R (5 mm K2PO4/KH2PO4 pH 7.8, 0.33 m sucrose, 0.1 mm EDTA, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF, 5 μm leupeptin). A 6 g two-phase polymer mixture was prepared with 5 mm K2PO4/KH2PO4 (pH 7.8), 0.3 mm sucrose, 6.4% w/w Dextrane T-500 (Sigma), 6.4% w/w PEG 3350 (Sigma) and 5 mm KCl. The membrane suspension was added to the Dextrane/PEG mixture to give an 8 g two-phase system. The system was mixed well, and centrifuged for 5 min at 1500 g. The upper plasma membrane fraction was transferred to another new two-phase mixture, and centrifuged again at 1500 g. The central microsomal phase was diluted fivefold using the microsomal suspension buffer (buffer R), and centrifuged for 60 min at 41 000 g at 4°C. The supernatant was discarded, and plasma membrane pellets were resuspended in buffer R as described above. To generate inside-out vesicles, 0.02% Brij-58 (Sigma) was added. The inverted vesicles were subsequently briefly washed three times with 100, 500 and 50 mm ice-cold NH4HCO3, respectively Finally, the intracellular proteins were resuspended in 50 mm NH4HCO3 and stored at −80°C. For in-solution digestion, 1 mg of cytosolic proteins were pre-digested for 3 h with endoproteinase Lys-C (1/100 w/w) at room temperature. After fourfold dilution with 10% acetonitrile and 25 mm NH4HCO3, samples were digested overnight with Poroszyme® immobilized trypsin (1/100 v/w) at 37°C. Equal amounts of plasma membrane proteins were digested as described above by adding 5 μl of Poroszyme® immobilized trypsin to the final plasma membrane fraction solution. Digestion was stopped by adding trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) to 2% (pH ≤ 3). The trypsin beads and insoluble material were removed by centrifugation at 15 000 g for 20 min. Samples were concentrated in a vacuum centrifuge, either for phosphopeptide enrichment with titanium dioxide or direct analysis by mass spectrometry. TiO2 tips were supplied by Glygen Inc. and the phosphopeptide enrichment procedures used were essentially those described by CITATION with some modifications. TiO2 beads were equilibrated prior to binding of phosphopeptides by aspirating/expelling 200 μl of 30 mg/ml 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) in 80% acetonitrile and 0.1% TFA. Before binding, the trypsin-digested peptide lysate was adjusted to pH ≤ 1.9 by adding 1% TFA. Each peptide mixture was then added to a 2 ml reaction tube containing 10 mg of the TiO2 beads and incubated batchwise with end-over-end rotation for 30 min. After incubation, the beads were spun down at 500 g and briefly washed once with 80% acetonitrile, 0.1% TFA and once with 10% acetonitrile, 0.1% TFA. Finally, bound peptides were eluted from the beads using 200 μl NH4OH in 30% acetonitrile (pH > 10). Eluates were immediately neutralized in 5% TFA solvent and dried. The peptide mixture was separated and analyzed online by nanoflow C18 reverse-phase liquid chromatography using a 15 cm fused silica monolithic column (0.1 mm inner diameter) (Merck) and an Easy n-LC nano liquid chromatography instrument (Proxeon Biosystems A/S, http://www.proxeon.com) coupled to an ESI source and an LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer (Thermo Electron). Samples were loaded onto the column at a flow rate of 800 nl/min for 30 min. Peptides were eluted at 250 nl/min using a separating gradient of 5–30% solvent B (80% acetonitrile, 2.5% isopropanol, 0.5% acetic acid) over 71 min, 30–60% solvent B over 10 min, 60–90% solvent B over 6 min, and 90% solvent B over 3 min. The mass spectrometer was operated in positive ion mode using data-dependent automatic switching between MS and MS/MS acquisition modes. Fourrier transformed full scan mass spectra were acquired at a target value of 9E05 ions with resolution r = 60 000 at m/z 400 and an m/z range of 300–1800. The five most intense ions were selected for collision-induced dissociation with target value of 5000 ions in the LTQ. To improve the fragmentation of phosphopeptides, multi-stage activation was enabled for each MS/MS spectrum. When a neutral loss of 97.97, 48.99 or 32.66 Thomsons was detected following activation of the precursor ion, the neutral-loss peptide fragments were dissociated further, generating a variety of structurally informative fragments. Product ions produced during the initial activation of isolated precursor ions (MS/MS) and all subsequent neutral-loss activations (pseudo-MSn) were simultaneously stored, resulting in composite mass spectra for phosphopeptide identification. Figure 1 shows the outline of the proteomic approach. Briefly, raw data files were converted to mzXml format using the ReAdW program from the Institute for Systems Biology (Seattle, WA, USA, http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/sashimi/files). The spectral counts of all ions that were subjected to dissociation (precursor m/z) in each analysis were extracted from the mzXml files and entered into a matrix using the ProtMax algorithm (CITATION). Each column vector contains the quantities of all peptides subjected to dissociation, and is a component-wise description of a shotgun proteomics analysis; each row vector describes the abundance of a respective peptide ion over the entire set of analyses. Each column was normalized to its total spectral count (l1 vector norm). The values were then transformed to log10 values. Independent component analysis (ICA) was performed for decomposition and visualization of data. The components of the column vectors, i.e. the precursor m/z, constitute the loadings of the independent components, and were downloaded and identified by database search. Raw data files were converted to mascot generic file (.mgf) format using the default settings of the DTASuperCharge version 1.18 software (Matrix Science, http://www.matrixscience.com) with a tolerance of 0.05 Thomsons for precursor ion detection. Database searches were performed using Mascot software version 2.2 (Matrix Science) with an in-house Arabidopsis database (Arabidopsis 20081014, comprising 33 016 sequences and 13 232 127 residues) with the following settings: one missed cleavage; mass tolerance of 10 ppm for MS and 0.8 Da for MS/MS; enzyme, trypsin; fixed modification, carbamidomethyl; variable modifications, methionine oxidation, serine, threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation. To qualify as a positive protein identification, a significant Mascot score and a peptide length of at least five amino acids had to be obtained. The false discovery rate indicates the percentage of false-positive peptide identifications in the entire dataset. Phosphorylation site assignment was analyzed using MSQuant software (SourceForge, http://www.sourceforge.net) as previously described (CITATION). All spectra were manually validated, and various combinations of phosphorylation sites were scored (PTM score) for each peptide by matching the observed b and y ions to theoretical b and y ions, and the highest-scoring match was accepted if the Mascot score was greater than 40, the PTM score was greater than 30, and extensive coverage of b and/or y ion series was found. All mass spectra and metadata of the identified proteins are stored in the public mass spectral reference database ProMEX, and can be further used for mass spectral match and peptide identification in new samples (CITATION).
