!~ABS~! As in other eukaryotes, cell division in plants is highly conserved and regulated by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) that are themselves predominantly regulated at the posttranscriptional level by their association with proteins such as cyclins. Although over the last years the knowledge of the plant cell cycle has considerably increased, little is known on the assembly and regulation of the different CDK complexes. To map protein–protein interactions between core cell cycle proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana, a binary protein–protein interactome network was generated using two complementary high-throughput interaction assays, yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation. Pairwise interactions among 58 core cell cycle proteins were tested, resulting in 357 interactions, of which 293 have not been reported before. Integration of the binary interaction results with cell cycle phase-dependent expression information and localization data allowed the construction of a dynamic interaction network. The obtained interaction map constitutes a framework for further in-depth analysis of the cell cycle machinery.
!~RES~! To generate a binary Arabidopsis core cell cycle PPI map, 58 cell cycle regulatory proteins (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online) were tested for a selected number of interactions by applying independently the BiFC and the Y2H assays. These proteins included 55 core cell cycle proteins previously annotated by CITATION, two anaphase-promoting complex (APC) activators (CCS52A2 and CCS52B) (CITATION; CITATION), and one identified member of the Arabidopsis CDK family, CDKG;2, (CITATION). Four core cell cycle proteins (CYCA1;2, CYCA3;3, CYCD7;1, and CYCB2;4) were excluded from the CITATION set because no open reading frames (ORFs) were available, and two (CDKC;1 and CDKC;2) were excluded because they had been shown to function in the spliceosomal machinery rather than in the cell cycle control (CITATION). The BiFC vectors were created with the MultiSite Gateway technology that combined the cell cycle ORFs and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) fragments downstream of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION). Each core cell cycle protein was C-terminally tagged with either the N- (nGFP; 1 to 155 amino acids) or the C-terminal (cGFP; 156 to 720 amino acids) part of the GFP. The constructs were transiently coexpressed in leaf epidermal cells of tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated leaf infiltration (CITATION). Binary interactions were screened when one of the core cell cycle proteins was tagged with nGFP and the other protein with cGFP. Only when the first orientation of the tags gave a negative result, was the reciprocal interaction tested (see Supplemental Data Set 1B online). Of the total 917 pairwise interactions tested, 341 (37%) interacting pairs were identified (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Data Set 1C online). The overall quality of the BiFC data was validated by testing for interaction between 40 pairs of unlikely interacting proteins, such as S and M phase cyclins (see Supplemental Table 1 online). None of these cyclin-cyclin pairs yielded a fluorescent signal, indicating that the probability of false positives in our experimental setup is low. [[FIGURE]] The Y2H assay was performed by applying the mating method in a microtiter plate format (CITATION) with the same set of cell cycle proteins as that used in the BiFC assay excluding CDKG;2, CYCA3;4, CYCD3;3, and CYCB1;2 (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online). For A- and B-type CDKs, a kinase death allele was used as well, whereas for most of the mitotic cyclins an N-terminally truncated (deleting the destruction box) version was included (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online), as these mutations had been found to stabilize the interaction with their binding partners (CITATION). The cell cycle ORFs were cloned in frame at the C terminus of the binding and activating domains of GAL4 to create translational fusion constructs. Twelve activation domain-containing constructs resulted in self-activation and therefore were only used as preys (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online). The interaction between two proteins was considered positive when both reporter genes were activated (the biosynthetic histidine gene HIS3, resulting in histidine prototrophy, and the β-galactosidase-encoding gene LacZ, giving rise to blue colonies in the presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside) (see Supplemental Data Set 1D online). In total, 733 interactions tested by the BiFC were covered by the Y2H analysis, resulting in 77 (11% of the total number tested) interactions (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Data Set 1C online). As shown in Figure 1A, the overlap between the two binary PPI assays was rather small, illustrating that the techniques are highly complementary in detecting pairwise protein–protein interactions. BiFC detected 264 interactions more than did Y2H. From a total of 357 interactions, 61 (17%) were detected by both PPI methods. The number of interacting pairs detected exclusively in the BiFC and the Y2H assays was 280 (78%) and 16 (4.5%), respectively. For four proteins, namely, CYCB1;4, CYCB2;2, DEL2, and DEL3, no interacting partners were detected in either of the assays. To estimate the quality of the binary PPI network, we compared it with 88 known pairwise Arabidopsis core cell cycle interactions (a positive reference set) from publicly available databases (see Methods; see Supplemental Data Set 1C online). Sixty-four (73%) of these interactions were confirmed in our data set, of which 35 were detected by BiFC only, 28 by both BiFC and Y2H, and one by Y2H only (Figure 1A). In conclusion, the PPI screens confirmed the majority of data available in the literature and yielded 293 previously undetected binary interactions, the latter corresponding to 82% of all detected interactions. The results from the two binary PPI screens were integrated into an interactome network map (Figure 1B), consisting of 54 nodes (representing the individual proteins) that were interconnected by 348 edges (each representing one pairwise interaction). To determine the statistical significance of the network, we performed a randomization experiment (see Methods), which illustrated a significant dissimilarity between the experimental and random PPI networks. When all analyzed core cell cycle proteins were sorted according to the number of their binding partners (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Data Set 1A online), several highly connected proteins, qualifying as hubs, were identified (e.g., CDKA;1, CDKB1, CDKD;3, CKS, and CYCD4). Next, the number of interactions among different protein families was analyzed. As shown in Figure 2A, the most interconnected nodes were CDKA;1, CDKB1;1, and the two other B-type CDKs (CDKB1;2 and CDKB2;1). By contrast, CDKB2;2 interacted with only nine cell cycle proteins. CKS2 and CKS1 proteins were similar to each other in terms of number of interacting proteins (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online). In general, D-type cyclins and CYCH;1 had more interacting partners than other cyclins (Figures 2B to 2D). On average, the number of interactors was the lowest for B-type cyclins (Figure 2D). E2Fa was the most interconnected transcription factor (Figure 2E). Within the KRP family, the proteins had similar numbers of interactions (Figure 2F). [[FIGURE]] Studies in yeast and human cells indicated a correlation between transcript and protein levels, especially for the periodically transcribed cell cycle genes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, networks of coexpressed genes can provide a framework to predict gene functions because genes with similar expression patterns are most probably involved in a common biological process (CITATION). To investigate to what extent the PPI data correlated with transcription patterns, the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) values were calculated for 264 (74%) detected interactions based on the Arabidopsis ATH1 microarray compendium of 518 experiments focused on cell cycle or plant growth and development (see Supplemental Data Set 1E online). PCC values between 0.6 and 1.0 indicated a highly positive correlation (CITATION), a criterion met in 19% (50) of all detected interactions with assigned PCC values; values between −0.4 and 0.6, no significant correlation for 76% (202) of all detected interactions, and values below −0.4, highly anticorrelated pairs for 5% (12). For 26% (93) of the detected interactions, no PCC values were available. The BiFC and Y2H assays generated similar ratios between positively correlated PCC and anticorrelated values (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online), while literature-curated PPIs have only positive or noncorrelated PCC values (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). When the distribution of PCC values for our PPI network was compared with that of a set of 1000 random networks composed of the same set of 58 cell cycle proteins (see Methods), a significant enrichment (P value < 1.6E-9, one-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test) of interactions with high positive correlation and anticorrelation was observed for the PPI network (Figure 3A). When juxtaposed with random Gaussian distribution, the experimental PPI network was shifted toward the highly positively correlated protein pairs, demonstrating the specificity of the binary interactions. The total PCC curve was similar to the BiFC one, due to the higher number of PPIs detected with this method. Interestingly, after calculating the transcript PCC values for both the BiFC and Y2H PPI networks, we observed that the anticorrelation peak resulted from the BiFC data set (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). The average transcript PCC value for both BiFC and Y2H data sets equaled 0.25, which is considerably higher than that of a randomized data set (0.015) (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). Such a result increased the confidence in the identified protein pairs. [[FIGURE]] Subsequently, the PPI network was merged with the PCC data. Colors were attributed to the edges of the binary PPI network according to the PCC value of the protein pair (Figure 3B). Subnetworks of positively and negatively correlated PPIs were observed. The highest PCC values were assigned to the M phase–specific protein pairs, CDKB2;1 with A1-, A2-, B1-, and B3-type cyclins; and CKS2 with CCS52B and CDKB2;1 (Figure 3C). A highly positive transcript correlation occurred also for the S phase–specific RBR1-E2F-DP complex, but a negative correlation was seen for the CDKE;1-CYCD4;2 pair (Figure 3D). The highest anticorrelation was attributed to KRP1 in pairs with CDKB2;1, CDKD;3, CKS2, and D3-, D4-, A2-, and A3-type cyclins (Figure 3D), suggesting a role for KRP1 as a potent CDK/CYC inhibitor. Interestingly, other representatives of the CKI family, KRP3 and KRP5, were highly positively correlated with proteins from both S (e.g., CYCD3;3 and CYCD6;1) and G2/M phases (e.g., CKS2, B-type CDKs, and CYCD3;1) (Figure 3C). Because all anticorrelated pair interactions were detected by the BiFC assay only, we sought to confirm them by another in vivo imaging technique, such as fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) to determine Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) (CITATION). Therefore, the interactions between KRP1 and its anticorrelated mitotic partners (CKS2 and CYCA2;4) and partners from other cell cycle phases (such as CYCA3;4) were analyzed. The interaction between KRP1 and CDKA;1 was used as a positive control. The fluorescence lifetime was measured for the donor cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) molecules separately and then compared with the fluorescence lifetime of the donor CFP molecules in the presence of the acceptor yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) molecules. We observed a reproducible reduction in the fluorescence lifetime for KRP1-CFP when coexpressed with either CDKA;1-Venus or CKS2-Venus and a reduction in the fluorescence lifetime for CYCA2;4-CFP when coexpressed with KRP1-Venus (see Supplemental Table 2 online; Figures 4A to 4F), suggesting interactions between these proteins. Interestingly, the strongest reduction in the fluorescence lifetime of CYCA2;4-CFP in the presence of KRP1-Venus was observed in the subnuclear structures, a pattern reminiscent of that of the BiFC KRP1/CYCA2;4 fluorescent complex (Figures 4G to 4I). No reduction in the fluorescence lifetime of CYCA3;4-CFP in the presence of KRP1-CFP was detected (see Supplemental Table 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To uncover protein complexes that operate during different cell cycle transitions, the PPI network was overlaid with cell cycle phase-dependent expression data (CITATION, CITATION). When a transcript was found to oscillate, a protein was assigned to one of the four cell cycle phases, dependent on its main peak of expression. Noncycling genes were considered as constitutively expressed, resulting in a five-cluster network (Figure 5A). Because the PPI network constitutes a small subnet of the global Arabidopsis interactome and thus is not scale free (CITATION), it might appear that nodes are excessively and randomly connected. To evaluate the connectivity between different clusters, several network parameters were calculated, taking only the edges between proteins from different cell cycle clusters into account (see Supplemental Data Set 1F online). The number of connected components, being a subcluster in which all nodes are connected to each other, characterizes the network topology. Dispersed and less connected networks will have many connected components (CITATION). G1/S, S/G2, and G2/M clusters had a low number of connected components, suggesting a crosstalk between these cell cycle phases (see Supplemental Data Set 1F online). Surprisingly, this number was low for the G1/G2 network as well. Similar patterns were detected when the network density was calculated (see Supplemental Data Set 1F online). The density values for the S/M and M/G1 networks were very low (0.047 and 0.055, respectively), whereas for G1/S, S/G2, and G2/M, the values were above 0.11. Again, the value for the G1/G2 network was strikingly high (0.25), pointing to a link between these phases. The network heterogeneity calculations confirmed a higher tendency to contain hubs for the G1/S and M/G2 subnetworks in comparison with the other cell cycle cluster combinations. [[FIGURE]] When the first interacting neighbors of the G1/S network were plotted (Figure 5B), a highly interconnected E2F/DP cluster and a cluster including multiple D-type cyclins were revealed. KRPs bound to multiple D-type cyclins, confirming their regulatory role in the cell cycle entry (CITATION). A3-type cyclins were connected to the E2F-RBR hub, in line with their function as S phase cyclins. In addition, the G1/S network interacted with noncycling proteins, such as CDKA;1, D-type CDKs, CDKF;1, CYCA3;4, and CKS1. RBR1 interacted with the E2F subunits but not with the DP proteins. Also, the G2/M regulator CDKB1;1 was linked with the G1/S subnetwork, corroborating the idea that this particular CDK plays a role earlier in the cell cycle than anticipated based on its expression peak during G2 (CITATION). To dissect the PPI network among proteins that are most abundant at the G2-to-M transition, the G2/M subnetwork, including its first interacting neighbors, was plotted (Figure 5C). The network displayed connections between the B-type CDKs and the A1-, A2-, and B1-type cyclins. CYCA1;1 interacted not only with the mitotic CDKB2;1, but also with CDKA;1 and CDKB1;1, which both had a broader expression spectrum. All A2-type cyclins bound to three of the B-type CDKs (CDKB1;1, CDKB1;2, and CDKB2;1). CYCB1;1 and CYCB1;2 exhibited a similar interaction pattern. Interestingly, A-type cyclins were found to interact with several KRPs. The G2/M network also included the APC activator proteins CCS52A2 and CCS52B, in accordance with their function in the destruction of mitotic cyclins. Proteins corresponding to constitutively expressed genes (CDKA;1, CKS1, CDKD, CDKF;1, CYCA3;4, and RBR1) formed a network with each other, but interacted as well with proteins from all cell cycle phases (Figure 5D). For example, CDKA;1 bound the G1-specific D-type cyclins, the S phase–specific A3-type cyclins, and the M phase–specific A2-type cyclins, suggesting a sequential interaction with these cyclins during the cell cycle. CDKA;1 also formed complexes with the CKIs that probably control the entry to the cell cycle. Interestingly, the constitutive CYCA3;4 interacted with the KRPs produced during the S and G2 phases. CKS1 had a wide spectrum of interactors, including CDKs, KRPs, and different cyclins. The BiFC assay enables the in vivo spatial detection of the formed binary protein complexes (CITATION). We took advantage of this feature and analyzed the localization of the individual proteins and the respective complexes in leaf epidermal cells of tobacco. When transiently expressed, the majority of the 58 core cell cycle proteins localized either exclusively in the nucleus (52%) or in both nucleus and cytoplasm (40%) (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Data Set 1A online). A few proteins (5%) associated with either cortical microtubules (MTs) or were localized in both the nucleus and MTs (3%). The 341 detected complexes were found in the nucleus, cytoplasm, and other compartments, including the endoplasmic reticulum and MTs (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Data Set 1C online). The localization information (http://www.psb.ugent.be/split-gfp/interactome.html) was plotted against the PPI network (Figure 5A) and grouped into the cell cycle phase subnetworks (Figure 6C). The G1 and S networks were clearly enriched for proteins exclusively present and interacting in the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 3A online), whereas all MT-localized and most of the cytoplasmic complexes were found in the M phase cluster (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). [[FIGURE]] As CDKA;1 was the most interconnected node in the PPI network, we analyzed the spatial distribution of its complexes in more detail (Figure 6D). CDKA;1 localized as a homodimer in both nucleus and cytoplasm (Figures 6Ea and 6Eb). Interestingly, CDKA;1 formed complexes in distinct compartments when interacting with specific cyclins. For example, the CDKA;1-CYCB2;3 complex localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (Figure 6Ed), whereas CYCB2;3 alone was both nuclear and cytoplasmic (Figure 6Ec). Alternatively, CDKA;1-CYCA2;4 complex formation occurred in the nucleus with more pronounced subnuclear dots, probably corresponding to the chromocenters (Figure 6Ef), although alone, CYCA2;4 localized homogenously to the nucleus (Figure 6Ee). While CDKA;1 and CYCD3;1 both displayed a nuclear and cytoplasmic localization (Figures 6Ea and 6Eg), the CDKA;1-CYCD3;1 complex was detected only in the nucleus (Figure 6Eh). When CYCA1;1 was expressed alone, it localized in the nucleus and on MTs (Figure 6Ei), but the CDKA;1-CYCA1;1 complex was formed exclusively in the nucleus (Figure 6Ej). These results demonstrate subcellular specificity of the binary complexes formed in tobacco epidermis, thus strengthening the credibility of the data.
!~MM~! The BiFC constructs were obtained through recombinational Gateway cloning (Invitrogen). The GFP moieties were created by a PCR for N- and C-terminal parts of the fluorescent molecule using the following primer combinations: B2F-nGFP-F (5′-GGGGACAGCTTTCTTGTACAAAGTGGGGATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTTCA-3′), B3R-nGFP+stop-R (5′-GGGGACAACTTTGTATAATAAAGTTGTTTAGGCCATGATATAGACGTTGTGGCTGTTGTA-3′), B2F-cGFP-F (5′-GGGGACAGCTTTCTTGTACAAAGTGGGGGACAAGCAGAAGAACGGCATCAAGGTGA-3′), and B3R-cGFP+stop-R (5′-GGGGACAACTTTGTATAATAAAGTTGTTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGAGAGTG-3′). DNA sequences were generated that encoded the N terminus of the enhanced GFP, designated nGFP (1 to 465 bp, 1 to155 amino acids) and the C terminus, cGFP (466 to 717 bp, 156 to 239 amino acids) without linker sequences. The primers used to amplify this fragment contained a stop codon to use the GFP moieties at the C terminus of the fusion. All full-length ORFs (without stop codons) of the cell cycle proteins of interest were recombined into the pDONR221 entry vector (Invitrogen) by a BP reaction (see Supplemental Data Set 1G online). The MultiSite Gateway reaction resulted in translational fusions between the cell cycle ORFs and the moieties of GFP, driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. The expression clones were generated in the pH7m34GW and pK7m34GW destination vectors (for the ORF:nGFP and ORF:cGFP fusions, respectively; http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/index.php). Proteins fused with GFP were generated in the vector pK7FWG2 (http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/index.php). For the Y2H assays, all analyzed core cell cycle full-length ORFs (containing stop codons) were recombined into the pDEST22 and pDEST32 vectors (Invitrogen) by an LR reaction, resulting in translational fusions between the ORFs and the GAL4 transcriptional activation and GAL4 DNA binding domains, respectively (see Supplemental Data Set 1G online). Selected full-length ORFs (without stop codons) of the cell cycle proteins, used for the FRET assay, were fused C-terminally in-frame with the eCFP (in pK7CWG2 vector) and Venus YFP (in pK7m34GW). The expression of each fusion construct was driven by the CaMV p35S promoter (http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/index.php). All DNA stocks will be made available through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/∼plantbio/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm). Wild-type tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants were grown under a normal light regime (14 h of light, 10 h of darkness) at 25°C and 70% relative humidity. All BiFC constructs were transferred into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 harboring the virulence plasmid VirG. The obtained Agrobacterium strains were used to infiltrate tobacco leaves, of which the transient expression was assayed according to CITATION with minor modifications. The transformed Agrobacterium strain harboring the constructs of interest was grown for 2 d in a shaking incubator (200 rpm) at 28°C in 5 mL of yeast extract broth medium, supplemented with appropriate antibiotics. After incubation, 2 mL of the bacterial culture was transferred to Eppendorf tubes and centrifuged (10 min, 7000 rpm). The pellets were washed twice with 1 mL of the infiltration buffer (50 mM MES, 2 mM Na3PO4, and 0.5% glucose, pH 5.6). The final pellet was resuspended in the infiltration buffer supplemented with 100 μM acetosyringone. The bacterial suspension was diluted with the same supplemented buffer to adjust the inoculum concentration to the final OD600 value (dilution series from 0.5 to 0.1). For coexpression experiments, 500 mL of each bacterial culture was mixed prior to the leaf infiltration, with the inoculum of each construct adjusted to the required final OD600. The inoculum was delivered to tobacco leaves by gentle pressure infiltration of the lower epidermis with a 1-mL syringe without needle. The infiltrated area of the leaf was delimited and labeled with an indelible pen. The plant was incubated under normal growing conditions and analyzed 3 to 5 d after infiltration. Five infiltrated tobacco leaf segments were analyzed per combination. Interactions were scored positive if at least 10 fluorescent cells per leaf segment were observed. Plasmids encoding the baits (pDEST32) and preys (pDEST22) were transformed into the yeast strain PJ69-4α (MATα; trp1-901, leu2-3,112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1-HIS3, GAL2-ADE2, met2GAL7-lacZ) and PJ69-4a (MATa; trp1-901, leu2-3,112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2TGAL1-HIS3, GAL2-ADE2, met2TGAL7-lacZ) by the LiAc method (CITATION). Transformed yeast cells were selected on synthetic dextrose (SD) plates without Leu (pDEST 32) or without Trp (pDEST22), respectively. Interactions between proteins were assayed by the mating method. All pDEST32 yeast cultures were inoculated in 200 μL SD without Trp in a 96-well microtiter plate (Falcon), while one pDEST22 yeast culture was inoculated in 50 mL SD medium without Leu. To scale up the yeast cultures, 20 μL of each culture grown for 2 d at 30°C were added to a microtiter plate containing 125 μL of YPD medium (10g/L bacto-yeast extract, 10g/L bacto-peptone, and 20% dextrose) and again grown for 24 h at 30°C. The YPD medium was replaced by SD medium without Leu and Trp. Diploid strains grown in a 96-well microtiter plate (NUNC) for 2 d at 30°C were diluted until OD600 = 0.2 and then added to a 96-well microtiter plate (Falcon) containing either 190 μL SD medium without Leu and Trp, but with His (as control) or SD medium without Leu, Trp, and His. The OD was measured after 2 d of incubation at 30°C. Interactions were scored positive when the ratio of the OD600 of SD medium without Leu, Trp, and His on that of the SD medium without Leu and Trp was exceeding 70%. For the LacZ test, 3 μL of the OD600 = 0.2 dilution was spotted on a Hybond-N+ membrane (GE Healthcare) on a YPD agar plate. After incubation for 2 d at 30°C, the membrane was snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and placed on two Whatmann papers soaked in 6 mL of Z buffer (16.1 g Na2HPO4·7H2O, 5.5 g NaH2PO4·H2O, 0.750 g KCl, and 0.246 g MgSO4·7H2O) with 11 μL β-mercaptoethanol and 100 μL 4% 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside. After incubation for 6 h at 37°C, colonies were scored visually for blue staining by comparison with positive and negative controls supplied with the ProQuest two-hybrid system kit (Invitrogen). As donor and acceptor fluorophores, the FRET pairs eCFP and Venus YFP were used. The cells containing the fluorescently tagged proteins were analyzed in vivo in transiently transfected tobacco cells (as described above). The donor fluorescence lifetime was determined by time-correlated single-photon counting (TCSPC) in tobacco epidermal cells. A short pulse of light was used to excite a sample and the intensity of the fluorescence signal was measured as a function of time. For donor fluorescence excitation, a pulsed picosecond diode laser (LDH series; PicoQuant) with an output wavelength of 440 nm at a frequency of 20 MHz along with a dedicated driver (PDL series; PicoQuant) was used. The excitation light was guided into a confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus FV1000). Laser power was adjusted to give average photon counting rates not >104 to 105 photons/s (0.0001 to 0.001 photon counts per excitation event) to avoid pulse pileup. Images of 256 × 256 pixels were acquired with a ×63 C-Apochromat water immersion objective. Photons emitted by the sample were detected by a single photon avalanche diode (PDM series; PicoQuant). The data were acquired by the PicoHarp 300 TCSPC module (PicoQuant) working in the TTTR mode (time-tagged time-resolved). To calculate the fluorescence lifetime, the SymPhoTime software package (v4.7; PicoQuant) was used. Selected areas of the images (of n = 10 cells on average) corresponding to single nuclei were fitted by maximum likelihood estimation. Depending on the quality of a fit indicated by the value of χ2, a biexponential fitting model excluding IRF (the instrument response function) was applied. A model was rejected when χ2 exceeded a value of 1.0. Mean lifetimes τ for a series of control measurements were presented with a standard deviation and the FRET efficiency (E) was given for mean lifetimes of donor-acceptor pairs as well (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The efficiency of FRET was calculated using the lifetime of the donor in the presence (τDA) and absence of the acceptor probe (τD) according to the formula: E = 1 – (τDA/τD). Transfected tobacco leaves were assayed for fluorescence with a confocal microscope (Olympus FluoView FV1000) equipped with a ×63 water-corrected objective (numerical aperture of 1.2) and with a confocal microscope 100M with software package LSM510 (Zeiss) equipped with a ×63 water-corrected objective (numerical aperture 1.2). GFP fluorescence was imaged with a 488-nm laser excitation. Emission fluorescence was captured in the frame-scanning mode alternating GFP fluorescence via a 500-/550-nm band-pass emission filter. Cytoscape software (CITATION) was used to visualize protein–protein interaction networks to overlay it with transcriptional correlation and localization data. The Cytoscape files from this work are available as Supplemental Data Sets 2 to 8 online. The following parameters were calculated for the full network and the subnetworks: the number of connected components, network diameter, clustering coefficient (quantifying how close a network is to a clique, a fully connected set), centrality (referring to the extent to which a network revolves around a single node), and heterogeneity (the tendency of a network to contain hub-like nodes) (CITATION; CITATION). Randomization of the network was performed on 1000 sets containing the same node and edge numbers as the experimental network. The random network parameters were calculated in the same way and compared with the values for the empirical data set. The microarray compendium of Arabidopsis thaliana of 518 experiments (containing 19,937 genes/proteins) focused on cell cycle or plant growth and development was analyzed (see Supplemental Data Set 1E online). Coexpression between pairs was determined using the PCC. Distributions were created by randomly generating 100 networks consisting of 54 proteins (the same as those present in the experimental PPI network) and 348 pairs from Arabidopsis from within the collection of the tested interacting proteins. The transcript PCC was calculated for 256 (74%) of our binary PPI data set (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Data Set 1C online) because transcriptional data were not available for the remaining 92 (26%) pairs. The latter were not visualized in the transcript PCC network. The average PCC value was similar when calculated for the PPIs from the BiFC to those calculated from the Y2H assays (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The Wilcoxon signed rank test was applied to verify the statistical significance of the shift between the distribution of the random networks and the experimental one (P value < 1.6E-9). The threshold selected for the positive correlations (0.6) is statistically significant with a P value < 2.2E-16. The data were imported from publicly available databases, the Arabidopsis Information Resource (www.Arabidopsis.org), IntACT (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/site/index.jsf), the General Repository for Interaction Data sets (BioGRID; http://www.thebiogrid.org/), the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database (www.bind.ca), the Database of Interacting Proteins (http://dip.doe-mbi.ucla.edu), and the Gold Reference data set constructor from Information on Protein complexes (http://rosalind.infj.ulst.ac.uk/GRIP). The data were extracted from PubMed (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=PubMed) as well. A database of localization patterns can be found at http://www.psb.ugent.be/split-gfp/interactome.html. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Transcript PCC Value Distribution. Supplemental Figure 2. Comparison of the Coexpression Correlation of Randomized Networks and the Experimental Binary Network. Supplemental Figure 3. Distribution of Subcellular Localization Patterns of the Binary Complexes from the G1/S and the G2/M Modules. Supplemental Table 1. A Random (Negative) Reference PPI Set for the BiFC Assay. Supplemental Table 2. FLIM Analysis for the Selected Core Cell Cycle Proteins and Protein Pairs in Vivo in Tobacco Epidermis. Supplemental Data Set 1A. The Arabidopsis Core Cell Cycle Proteins Analyzed in the PPI Screens. Supplemental Data Set 1B. Tagging Combinations of nGFP and cGFP Detecting Arabidopsis Core Cell Cycle Protein Interactions in the BiFC Assay Supplemental Data Set 1C. List of All Tested PPIs in the Binary Screens. Supplemental Data Set 1D. Pairwise Yeast Two-Hybrid Interactions Tested between Arabidopsis Cell Cycle Proteins. Supplemental Data Set 1E. List of Experiments Used to Build an Arabidopsis ATH1 Microarray Compendium of 518 Experiments Focused on Plant Growth and Development, Used to Calculate the Transcript Pearson Correlation Coefficients. Supplemental Data Set 1F Network Parameters Calculated for the Cross-Linked Subnetworks Composed of Two Cell Cycle Phase-Specific Clusters. Supplemental Data Set 1G. Cell Cycle ORF Primer Amplification Information. Supplemental Data Set 2. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Figure 1B. Supplemental Data Set 3. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Figure 3B. Supplemental Data Set 4. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Figures 3C and 3D. Supplemental Data Set 5. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Figures 5A to 5D. Supplemental Data Set 6. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Figures 6C and 6D. Supplemental Data Set 7. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Supplemental Figures 4A and 4B. Supplemental Data Set 8. Cytoscape File Corresponding to Supplemental Data Set 1F.
