!~ABS~! Many core oscillator components of the circadian clock are nuclear localized but how the phase and rate of their entry contribute to clock function is unknown. TOC1/PRR1, a pseudoresponse regulator (PRR) protein, is a central element in one of the feedback loops of the Arabidopsis clock, but how it functions is unknown. Both TOC1 and a closely related protein, PRR5, are nuclear localized, expressed in the same phase, and shorten period when deficient, but their molecular relationship is unclear. Here, we find that both proteins interact in vitro and in vivo through their conserved N‐termini. TOC1–PRR5 oligomerization enhances TOC1 nuclear accumulation two‐fold, most likely through enhanced nuclear import. In addition, PRR5 recruits TOC1 to large subnuclear foci and promotes phosphorylation of the TOC1 N‐terminus. Our results show that nuclear TOC1 is essential for normal clock function and reveal a mechanism to enhance phase‐specific TOC1 nuclear accumulation. Interestingly, this process of regulated nuclear import is reminiscent of similar oligomeric pairings in animal clock systems (e.g. timeless/period and clock/cycle), suggesting evolutionary convergence of a conserved mechanism across kingdoms.
!~RES~! Recent studies have shown that TOC1 protein levels can be altered by the presence of other PRR proteins, notably PRR3, through direct protein–protein interactions (CITATION; CITATION). We expanded on this idea by testing TOC1 interactions with the remaining PRR family members. As the TOC1–PRR3 interaction is mediated through the two N‐terminal PRR domains (CITATION), we next tested whether the N‐terminal domain (aa 1–242) of TOC1 can interact with full‐length TOC1, PRR5, PRR7 and PRR9 in vitro and in vivo. TAP‐TOC11−242 (TAP‐TOC1NT) was expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana and resin‐bound TOC1NT was incubated with extracts from Arabidopsis plants expressing specific PRRn∷PRRn‐GFP genes (CITATION). Only PRR5 and PRR9 protein were pulled down, with the PRR5–TOC1 interaction markedly stronger than PRR9–TOC1 (FIG-REF). When specific deletions of TOC1 were further tested with full‐length PRR5, only full‐length and N‐terminal TOC1 were able to pull down PRR5, both in vitro and when transiently co‐expressed in N. benthamiana (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Reciprocal in vivo co‐IP experiments using full‐length, N‐terminal and C‐terminal deletions of TAP‐PRR5 co‐expressed with TOC1‐YFP in N. benthamiana showed that the N‐terminal domain of PRR5 is sufficient to mediate their interaction (FIG-REF). Taken together, these data show that TOC1 and PRR5 oligomerize through their N‐termini. We took advantage of specific toc1 mutant alleles to further probe the nature of the PRR5–TOC1 interaction. Two short‐period point mutations (toc1‐5 and toc1‐8) alter two different amino‐acid residues in the TOC1 PRR domain at proline 96 (P96L) and proline 124 (P124L), respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Both mutations severely diminish the TOC1–PRR5 interaction three‐fold or greater based on co‐immunoprecipitation in a transient expression assay (FIG-REF). Mutations in highly conserved residues in the C‐terminal CCT domain that affect either TOC1 activity (toc1‐1) or CONSTANS (CO) activity (co‐5 and co‐7) were also tested (CITATION; CITATION). These mutations had no effect on the TOC1–PRR5 interaction (FIG-REF). Taken together, these data support the notion that the PRR domain is essential for the TOC1–PRR5 interaction and suggest an explanation for the short period of the PRR‐domain toc1 alleles. [[FIGURE]] However, we further tested the effect of these mutations on the TOC1–ZTL interaction, knowing that the N‐terminus of TOC1 is also essential for its interaction with ZTL (CITATION). Interestingly, the same PRR domain mutations strongly reduced the TOC1–ZTL interaction, whereas the introduced CCT domain mutations had no effect on the interaction (FIG-REF). As reduced accessibility of TOC1 to ZTL is predicted to mimic a ztl mutant and result in a long period, it is likely that the short period of the toc1‐5 and toc1‐8 alleles results instead from the diminished TOC1–PRR5 interaction. The significance of the TOC1–PRR5 interaction was first sought by observing the level of TOC1 in the Arabidopsis prr5 mutant. The TOC‐YFP minigene (TMG) (CITATION) was crossed into prr5‐1 and the TMG/TMG prr5/prr5 genotype was isolated. Total protein extracts from the WT and prr5 mutant were collected every 4 h from plants grown in 12/12 h light/dark cycles and TMG levels were determined in total protein extracts. Consistently lower levels of TMG were observed during the entire time of detectable expression (FIG-REF). RT–PCR analysis indicated that TOC1 message levels are not significantly different in the two backgrounds, indicating post‐transcriptional regulation of TOC1 expression (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We next sought to understand how TOC1 protein levels are sustained by PRR5. Earlier reports showed that all the PRR proteins are phosphorylated in vivo, and that the TOC1–PRR3 interaction is highly enhanced by phosphorylation of both proteins (CITATION). We tested this requirement for TOC1 and PRR5. We bound TAP‐TOC1 expressed in N. benthamiana to IgG resin and tested whether TOC1 phosphorylation affects the in vitro binding of PRR5‐GFP from Arabidopsis seedling extracts. PRR5‐GFP is able to bind both forms of TOC1 equally well (Supplementary Figure 1A, lower panel, lanes 3 and 4). Similarly, when PRR5‐GFP extracts were mock or phosphatase treated, both forms of PRR5‐GFP bound TOC1 similarly (Supplementary Figure 1B, lower panel, lanes 5 and 6). These data indicate that the TOC1–PRR5 interaction is not affected by the phosphorylation status of either of the proteins. Although the phosphorylation state of PRR5 does not affect binding to TOC1, we observed that the migration of TOC1 was more rapid when the TOC1–PRR5 interaction was diminished by the P96L and P124L mutations in the TOC1 PRR domain (FIG-REF). This suggested that a TOC1–PRR5 interaction might facilitate TOC1 phosphorylation in vivo. We tested this idea by co‐expressing both proteins at different abundance ratios in N. benthamiana and then observed the relative abundance of upper (phosphorylated) and lower (unphosphorylated) forms of TOC1 in total protein extracts. We adjusted the relative concentrations of two Agrobacterium strains expressing either PRR5‐GFP or TAP‐TOC1 to obtain different amounts of PRR5 expressed relative to TOC1 in N. benthamiana (FIG-REF). As the relative abundance of PRR5‐GFP was increased, we observed a concomitant increase in the phosphorylated form of TOC1, relative to the unphosphorylated form using both full‐length TOC1 and the TOC1 N‐terminus alone (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S2). Similar experiments conducted with PRR9‐GFP had no effect on TOC1 phosphorylation, indicating a specific function for PRR5 (FIG-REF). When the N‐terminal and C‐terminal domains of PRR5 were co‐expressed separately with TAP‐TOC1, we did not observe a shift to a greater proportion of phosphorylated TOC1, indicating the need for full‐length PRR5 (Supplementary Figure S3A). We observed a similar enhancement of TOC1 phosphorylation in Arabidopsis using ectopically expressed full‐length PRR5 (PRR5 FL OX), but no effect when N‐terminal PRR5 (PRR5 NT OX) was used (Supplementary Figure S3B). [[FIGURE]] Studies in other circadian systems have indicated that phosphorylation often enhances or facilitates nuclear import (CITATION; CITATION). We tested this notion in plants by first observing how co‐expression of different PRR proteins effects TOC1 nucleocytoplasmic partitioning. When transiently expressed alone in N. benthamiana, TAP‐TOC1 clearly partitions in both the cytoplasm and nucleus (FIG-REF, lanes 5 and 9). Co‐expression of TAP‐TOC1 with GFP‐PRR3, a demonstrated TOC1 interactor (CITATION; CITATION), has no detectable effect on this partitioning of TAP‐TOC1 (FIG-REF, lanes 6 and 10). Similarly, co‐expression of TAP‐TOC1 with GFP‐PRR7 has little effect on TOC1 subcellular localization (FIG-REF, lanes 8 and 12). It is notable that neither PRR3 nor PRR7 affect TOC1 localization, despite the differences between these two in their own relative nucleocytoplasmic partitioning. PRR3 is present in both compartments, whereas PRR7 is found largely in the nucleus (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S4). Strikingly, GFP‐PRR5 co‐expression results in near exclusive nuclear localization of TOC1‐TAP, with little protein detectable in the cytoplasm (FIG-REF, lanes 7 and 11). In addition, this effect depends on PRR5 levels, with increasing amounts of co‐expressed PRR5 resulting in a corresponding increase in the proportion of nuclear TOC1 (FIG-REF). This localization requires full‐length PRR5 (Supplementary Figure S5) and depends on TOC1–PRR5 oligomerization, as the same PRR mutations that diminish their interaction strongly reduce the enhanced nuclear presence of TOC1 (FIG-REF, compare lanes 2, 3, 4 with 9, 10, 11; FIG-REF). These results implicate PRR5 as a strong facilitator of TOC1 nuclear localization. In contrast, under these conditions, TOC1 co‐expression has no effect on the localization of PRR3, PRR5 or PRR7 (compare FIG-REF with Supplementary Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] As the TOC1–PRR5 interaction only requires the N‐terminus of TOC1 (FIG-REF), we further tested the coupling of PRR5‐mediated nuclear import and phosphorylation of TOC1. We co‐expressed the TAP‐TOC1 N‐terminus and C‐terminus with full‐length GFP‐PRR5 in N. benthamiana and examined the partitioning and phosphorylation state of these deletions. When expressed in the absence of PRR5, TOC1 NT remains in the cytosol (FIG-REF, lanes 6 and 10), whereas TOC1 CT is found in both the cytosol and nucleus (FIG-REF, lanes 5 and 9), as expected given that the putative NLS is in the CCT domain (CITATION). When co‐expressed with GFP‐PRR5 TOC1 NT is both mobilized to the nucleus and phosphorylated (FIG-REF, lane 12), and cytosolic TOC1 NT is also phosphorylated (FIG-REF, lane 8). As there is no detectable nuclear TOC1 NT in the absence of PRR5 (FIG-REF, lane 10), these results reinforce the notion that PRR5 facilitates the nuclear import of TOC1, rather than causes an increase in the stability of nuclear TOC1 or a diminished nuclear export. Coupled with PRR5‐mediated nuclear import is the phosphorylation of TOC1 NT, although it is not known whether this occurs in the cytosol before nuclear import or whether the cytosolic fraction of phosphorylated TOC1 NT results from the export of nuclearly phosphorylated TOC1 NT. These data predict that TOC1 in the prr5 mutant should be strongly depleted in the nucleus and enhanced in the cytosol. We tested the nuclear and cytosolic fractions of a TMG prr5 line by sampling during the times of maximum TOC1 accumulation from plants grown under 12/12 h light/dark cycles. TOC1 in the nucleus is nearly two‐fold lower in the prr5 background relative to WT, whereas reciprocally two‐fold higher in the cytosol (FIG-REF). Conversely, TOC1‐YFP nuclear accumulation in Arabidopsis is significantly enhanced, relative to WT, in a strong PRR5 ectopic expressor (Supplementary Figure S6). These data support the results from the transient assays, indicating that PRR5 significantly enhances the nuclear accumulation of TOC1 in Arabidopsis. Similar experiments in the TMG prr3 background show a reduction in overall TOC1 levels as reported earlier (CITATION), but no change in relative nucleocytoplasmic localization (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We also examined the relative cytosolic and nuclear accumulation of TOC1 and PRR5 under free‐running constant light conditions in backgrounds with different levels and phases of PRR5 expression. During the second day in constant light, cytosolic levels of TOC1 in wild‐type Arabidopsis were highest near the end of the subjective night. In contrast, over the same time course, no TOC1 at all is detectable in the cytosol in the PRR5 OX background, and the levels in the prr5 mutant are comparatively much higher over WT late in the subjective day (FIG-REF). In the nucleus, TOC1 levels in the wild type are relatively high early in the subjective day and drop rapidly until rising slowly to high levels again late in the subjective night. In the prr5 mutant, nuclear TOC1 is consistently lower at all these time points, relative to wild type. Constitutive high expression of PRR5 causes TOC1 to accumulate in the nucleus at times not normally detectable in the wild type (e.g. at 33 h), though levels early in the subjective day (25 h) are unexpectedly low (FIG-REF). Overall, these findings can be explained by the strong phase‐specific expression of PRR5 in the wild type where peak accumulation of PRR5 precedes that of TOC1 in both the cytosol and nucleus (compare FIG-REF) (CITATION). This earlier timing and the effect of the PRR5 overexpression and absence on TOC1 levels are consistent with PRR5 acting phase specifically to facilitate TOC1 nuclear accumulation and cytosolic depletion through enhanced nuclear import. Taken together, our data indicate that PRR5 enhances both the nuclear accumulation and phosphorylation of TOC1. [[FIGURE]] Our initial demonstration of a TOC1–PRR5 interaction did not distinguish between nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. We tested for nuclear oligomers by sonic lysis of the nuclear fraction followed by an IgG pull down of TAP‐TOC1. GFP‐PRR5 is detected in this bound fraction, indicating that the interaction occurs in the nucleus (Supplementary Figure S7). We then investigated the subcellular in vivo interaction by observing the nuclear localization of both TOC1‐mCHERRY and PRR5‐GFP when transiently expressed separately or together in N. benthamiana (FIG-REF). When expressed alone, TOC1‐mCHERRY exhibits a pattern of small, dispersed nuclear foci (FIG-REF), very similar to an earlier report describing YFP‐TOC1 expression (CITATION). In contrast, PRR5‐GFP occurs in distinctly larger foci dispersed within the nucleus (FIG-REF), consistent with an earlier report (CITATION). When both proteins are co‐expressed, numerous medium‐sized PRR5‐like nuclear inclusions are evident with TOC1 now co‐localized with PRR5 (FIG-REF). These data indicate a co‐residence of both proteins, and strongly suggest that TOC1 is recruited by PRR5 to a particular class of nuclear foci. [[FIGURE]] Although the post‐translational effects of PRR5 on TOC1 nuclear localization and phosphorylation strongly affect TOC1 function, PRR5 is also linked to TOC1 through a shared degradation mechanism. Earlier reports have shown that both TOC1 and PRR5 are targeted for degradation by the SCFZTL (CITATION; CITATION). However, the ZTL family also includes the closely related LKP2 and FKF1 proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Whereas FKF1 is strongly linked to photoperiodic timing in Arabidopsis, until now there has been no demonstrated function for LKP2 in the plant clock or flowering time, apart from the effects of strong ectopic expression, which has effects on periodicity, hypocotyl length and flowering time identical to ZTL overexpression (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We transformed the lkp2‐1, ztl‐1 and the ztl‐3 lkp2‐1 double mutants with PRR5∷PRR5‐GFP and identified and characterized plants expressing PRR5‐GFP in each of the mutant genotypes. As reported earlier, PRR5 levels are strongly stabilized in the ztl mutant under light/dark cycles (FIG-REF) (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast, we observed the same strongly cycling PRR5 steady‐state levels in the lkp2‐1 mutant as in the WT Col background (FIG-REF). Oscillation of PRR5 in the ztl‐3 lkp2‐1 appeared slightly less robust compared with the ztl single mutant, so we tested the effects of cyclohexamide on PRR5 stability in all the backgrounds. We reasoned that if activity of SCFZTL was further compromised by the absence of LKP2, the half life of PRR5 would be longer in the ztl lkp2 double mutant than in the ztl single mutant. PRR5 half‐life in the lkp2‐1 mutant was indistinguishable from WT, consistent with no distinguishable differences in free‐running period between these backgrounds (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S8). In contrast, there was a significant increase in the PRR5 half‐life in the ztl lkp2 double mutant, relative to ztl‐3 (FIG-REF). A similar stabilization of PRR5 has been observed in the zlt lkp2 fkf1 triple mutant (Takato Imaizumi, personal communication). These data indicate that LKP2 contributes to the proteasome‐dependent degradation of PRR5. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Construction of TMG (TOC1∷TOC1‐YFP minigene) in Arabidopsis (Col‐0 accession) has been described earlier (CITATION, CITATION). Generation of TMG prr5‐1 and TMG prr3‐1, PRR5∷PRR5‐GFP in wild type, ztl‐1, lkp2 and ztl‐1 lkp2 is described in detail in Supplementary data. Arabidopsis seedlings were entrained under 12‐h white fluorescent light (50–60 μmol m−2 s−1)/12 h dark cycles for 8–12 days on MS plates with 3% sucrose and 1% agar before harvesting. The tissues were harvested at the indicated time points. For transient expression experiments, 3–4‐week‐old N. benthamiana plants were infiltrated with Agrobacterium as described earlier (CITATION). Tissues were harvested on the third day at ZT12 (16 h light/8 h dark). Constructs of TAP‐tagged TOC1 full‐length, N‐terminus (1–242) and C‐terminus (243–618) have been described earlier (CITATION). Constructs of TAP‐tagged PRR5 and its deletions, 35S∷TOC1‐mCherry and TAP‐tagged TOC1 point mutations are described in the Supplementary data. Total protein extraction was carried out as described earlier (CITATION; CITATION). For the immunoblot analysis, proteins were size fractionated by 8% SDS–PAGE (acrylamide:bisacrylamide, 149:1) for PRRs proteins or 12% SDS–PAGE (acrylamide:bisacrylamide, 37.5:1) for histone H3 and ADK, then analysed by immunoblot. Immunoblotting was performed using 1:1000 dilution anti‐PAP antibodies (Sigma‐Aldrich P‐1291) or primary polyclonal anti‐GFP antibody (Abcam ab6556) or primary anti‐histone H3 antibody (Abcam 1791) and 1:4000 polyclonal ADK primary antibodies (gift from Dr David Bisaro) followed by ECL detection using anti‐rabbit IgG with horseradish peroxidase‐linked whole antibody (GE healthcare NA934V). For immunoblot of primary anti‐Myc antibody (Santa Cruz, sc40, 1:300 dilution), 1:1000 HRP‐linked anti‐mouse IgG (Sigma‐Aldrich, A0198) was used as secondary antibody. Chemoluminance reactions were performed with Supersignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrates from Pierce. Quantity One 4.1.1 software was adopted for calculation and quantification of protein signal intensity. In FIG-REF, the cytosolic and nuclear TOC1 signals for WT TOC1 (no PRR5 co‐infiltration) were first normalized to the respective cytosolic (ADK) or nuclear (H3) loading controls. The ratios of these values were determined (cytosolic TOC1 to nuclear TOC1) and multiplied by its reciprocal to obtain a reference value of 1. This value was then used as a multiplier for remaining ratios of normalized cytosolic TOC1 to normalized nuclear TOC1 with PRR5 co‐infiltrated with the different TOC1 point mutations. The cytosolic and nuclear protein extractions were carried out with CELLYTPN1 CelLytic PN isolation/Extraction Kit (Sigma‐Aldrich) according to the manufacturer's instruction. Briefly, the tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C before use. The ground tissues were gently resuspended with 1 × nuclei isolation buffer supplemented with 1 mM DTT, 2 mM Na3VO4, 2 mM NaF and 25 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), and were filtered through five layers Miracloth (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA) by centrifugation at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended with 1 × nuclei isolation buffer supplemented with 0.3% Triton X‐100, 1 mM DTT, 2 mM Na3VO4, 2 mM NaF and 25 mM PMSF, 2.5 μg/ml antipain, 2.5 μg/ml chymostatin, 1 μg/ml pepstatin, 5 μg/ml leupeptin, 5 μg/ml aprotinin, and 50 μM MG132, 50 μM MG115, 50 μM ALLN. After incubation on ice (5 min), extracts were centrifuged at 6800 r.p.m. for 5 min. The resulting supernatant was transferred to a new tube containing SDS buffer and designated as the cytosolic fraction. The pellet was resuspended in the above buffer and centrifuged and resuspended repeatedly until the pellet appeared totally white or slightly gray. The pellet was washed with 1 × nuclei isolation buffer supplemented with 1 mM DTT, 2 mM Na3VO4, 2 mM NaF and 25 mM PMSF, dissolved in SDS buffer and designated as the nuclear compartment. The cytosolic and nuclear compartments were loaded onto SDS–PAGE gels in proportion to the volume used in the initial extractions and the resuspension volumes of each compartment. In vitro pull‐down assays were performed as described earlier (CITATION). Agrobacteria containing both TOC1 full length and its amino‐ or carboxyl‐deletions by TAP tagged with GFP‐PRR5 or PRR5 full length and its deletions tagged by TAP with TOC1‐YFP were co‐infiltrated. Tissues were harvested at ZT12 after infiltration on the third day. The co‐immunoprecipitation was performed as described earlier (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted with TRIzol reagents (Invitrogen, Carlbad, CA) from tissue of 10‐day‐old seedlings grown on MS media. After digestion with DNase I (Amplification grade, Invitrogen, Carlbad, CA), cDNA synthesis was performed with Oligo‐dT primer and SuperscriptIII reverse transcriptase kit (Invitrogen, Carlbad, CA) as per the manufacturer's instruction. cDNA templates were digested with RNaseH before amplification. Gene‐specific primers were used for the quantification of corresponding mRNA levels through semi‐quantitative RT–PCR as described earlier (CITATION). Agrobacteria containing 35S∷GFP‐PRR5 or 35S∷TOC1‐mCherry was singly or co‐infiltrated into N. benthamiana plants as described earlier. Images were collected using a Zeiss LSM 510 coanfocal microscope with a Plan‐Apochromat 63 × /1.4 oil objective using the multi‐track method. For GFP and mCherry confocal microscopy, GFP was imaged using 488 nm laser light and a 505–530 nm BP emission filter, and mCherry was imaged using 543 nm laser light and a 585–615 BP emission filter. For DAPI staining, a high‐pressure mercury bulb and Zeiss DAPI filter set were used, and the DAPI emission was detected at 461–525 nm on ChS1. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
