!~ABS~! The importance of redox‐regulation in Arabidopsis thaliana roots has been investigated through the identification of the proteins interacting with thioredoxin (TRX), an ubiquitous thiol‐disulfide reductase. We have applied a proteomic approach based on affinity chromatography on a monocysteinic mutant of plastidial y‐type TRX used as a bait to trap putative partners in a crude extract of root proteins. Seventy‐two proteins have been identified, functioning mainly in metabolism, detoxification and response to stress, protein processing and signal transduction. This study allowed us to isolate 24 putative new targets and to propose the mevalonic acid‐dependent biosynthesis of isoprenoids as a new redox‐mediated process. The redox‐regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis is also suggested, three enzymes of this pathway being retained on the column. We also provided experimental evidence that phenylammonia‐lyase was enzymatically more active when reduced by TRXy in root crude extract. Among the high number of partners involved in defense against stress we isolated from the column, we focused on plastidial monodehydroascorbate reductase and showed that its activity was dramatically increased in vitro in the presence of DTT‐reduced TRXy1 in root crude extracts. Our data strongly suggest that TRXy1 could be the physiological regulator of monodehydroascorbate reductase in root plastids. 
!~RES~! The two different methods reported in the literature to trap proteins interacting with thioredoxin have been both validated by biochemical data and give complementary results CITATION, CITATION. As TRXy was poorly reduced by the cytosolic NADPH‐thioredoxin reductase in vitro CITATION, we first tried to reduce it with DTT in anaerobic conditions followed by radiolabeling of reduced targets with iodoacetamide. Almost no root protein was radiolabeled by this way (data not shown); we thus decided to use the alternative method, i.e. affinity chromatography on columns grafted with the monocysteinic thioredoxin. TRXy1 is the y‐type TRX isoform expressed in Arabidopsis roots. However, its sequence contains a third cysteine that, according to our past experience CITATION, CITATION, is potentially able to induce an artifactual retention of proteins onto the corresponding column. It has also been demonstrated that a non‐active cysteine in TRX participates in the formation of homo‐oligomers, leading to a competition between this cysteine and the targets and thus lowering the yield of total protein targets CITATION. As the two isoforms y1 and y2 share 82% sequence identity (Supporting Information Fig. 2) and appeared to be enzymatically equivalent in vitro CITATION, we chose to graft the affinity column with mutated y2 (C33S thioredoxin) rather than y1. Soluble root proteins retained on this column were eluted with DTT and separated by 2‐DE (data not shown). Identification was then performed by peptide mass fingerprint using MALDI‐TOF MS.  Seventy‐two proteins were identified (Table 1). Sixty‐eight of them can be classified in four categories corresponding to definite biological processes, and four putative targets are hypothetical proteins without assigned function (Fig. 1). They are functional in the following pathways: metabolism (35%) (including the biosynthesis of amino acids, fatty acids and phenylpropanoids), detoxification and response to oxidative or chemical stress (32%), protein synthesis, folding and degradation (22%), and signal transduction (5%). Large‐scale proteomic study in Arabidopsis roots allowed to classify expressed proteins according to their functions CITATION. Metabolism and energy are the most prevalent classes in this organ (19 and 18%, respectively), while proteins acting in defense against stress and pathogens represent about 13% of total proteins. In Brassica napus, another cruciferous plant, similar prevalence of metabolism and energy‐related proteins was observed and less than 10% of the identified proteins were categorized in cell defense and detoxification CITATION. It is worth mentioning that the aeroponic culture system used in this work (Rainforest) constantly sprays roots with oxygen‐rich nutrient solution, allowing high growth rates, and avoiding root hypoxia or any other stress. Therefore, the high number of root targets involved in defense and response to stress eluted from the mutant TRXy2 column reflects more the crucial role of redoxins in this process in roots than the natural abundance of this class of proteins in this organ.  [[FIGURE]] As mentioned in Table 1, some homologous proteins have already been proposed as potential targets of TRX or GRX or as glutathionylated proteins, in photosynthetic tissues and in seeds. More generally, the involvement of redoxins in most of the processes mentioned above (amino acid biosynthesis, metabolism, oxidative stress, folding and degradation) has been already proposed or demonstrated CITATION. However, redox‐regulation in some other pathways such as the mevalonic acid‐dependent biosynthesis of isoprenoids or the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis has never been reported or is poorly documented. Almost all the proteins contain at least one cysteine in their sequence, except two GST and one unknown protein retained on the affinity column even though they do not have any cysteine. Apart from a modification in the protein sequence, it can be hypothetized that these proteins have been trapped in virtue of a strong affinity with TRX itself or with one of the targets. It has been frequently observed that the interaction between TRX and its targets in vitro is not specific of the isoform used in the study; therefore, it is not surprising that the proteins eluted from the TRXy mutant column were localized in various subcellular compartments. Most of them are cytosolic but some are located in plastids and thus could be tested as physiological partners of TRXy1.  Numerous targets involved in several metabolic pathways have been retained on the TRXy column. Those playing a role in primary metabolism and biosynthesis of amino acid or cell wall correspond to proteins already proposed as TRX and/or GRX targets or as protein undergoing glutathionylation. More interestingly, the redox‐regulation of several other processes is poorly documented, as detailed below.  A role in fatty acid biosynthesis has already been proposed for TRXy in non‐photosynthetic tissues CITATION. We indeed found two targets of isoprenoid and fatty acid biosynthesis, namely plastidial enoylACP reductase (ENR) and acetoacetylCoA thiolase (ACAT). ENR, which catalyses the last reducing step of the fatty acid biosynthesis cycle, has already been proposed to interact with thioredoxin in TAP‐tag experiment in E. coli CITATION. However, it is the first time that this enzyme is proposed as a redoxin target in eukaryotic organisms. In addition, sequence comparison of ENRs from A. thaliana and E. coli revealed a low sequence identity (27%) and no conservation of cysteine residue(s) (data not shown). The spinach enzyme is inhibited by p‐chloromercuribenzoic acid, a thiol‐specific reagent CITATION and the only cysteine present in plant protein is exposed at the surface as shown in the 3‐D structure of cabbage ENR and therefore accessible to form disulfide bridge (with redoxin or glutathion). ACAT condenses two molecules of acetylCoA into acetoacetyl CoA, during the first step of the mevalonate biosynthesis pathway leading to isoprenes and contains a well‐conserved catalytic cysteine. The Arabidopsis genome contains two ACAT genes encoding five different putative isoforms CITATION. We trapped the cytosolic ACAT2, which is mostly expressed in roots CITATION. Sequence alignments of cytosolic (At5g47720.1, At5g47720.2, At5g48230.1 and At5g48230.2) and peroxisomal (At5g 47720.3) ACATs from Arabidopsis and tobacco (AAU95618.1 and AAU95619.1) reveal a high identity and a good conservation of seven cysteine residues (data not shown).  Involvement of redox‐regulation in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis can be postulated, as three enzymes of this pathway have been isolated from the column: PAL, which catalyzes the first step of the pathway, i.e. deamination of phenylalanine to trans‐cinnamic acid; the cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase REF1, which synthetizes ferulic and sinapic acids from the corresponding aldehydes; and cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD), which reduces cinnamic aldehydes into alcohols, in the presence of NADPH. CAD can be considered as a potential new target. The mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase has been already proposed as interacting with TRX in leaves of higher plants CITATION and in seeds from wheat and Medicago truncatula CITATION, CITATION but the root protein trapped by mutated TRXy was the cytosolic isoform (50% identity). Thirty years ago, Buchanan and co‐workers reported the light‐mediated activation of chloroplastic PAL in spinach leaves, via the ferredoxin–thioredoxin system CITATION. However, the same leaf extract also contained a redox‐independent PAL activity. In Arabidopsis, four genes have been annotated as encoding PAL. The isoform expressed at high levels in roots is the cytosolic PAL2, the one we trapped on the TRX column. Sequence comparison of the four isoforms revealed 72–90% identity and the conservation of five cysteines (Supporting Information Fig. 3). We therefore decided to test the redox dependence of PAL activity in vitro in crude extracts of Arabidopsis roots. As shown in Fig. 2, no significant PAL activity was detectable in roots in the absence of reductant or in the presence of oxidized TRXy1. Addition of 20–100 mM DTT or DTT‐reduced TRXy1 dramatically increased the enzyme activity. Thus, it can be concluded that activation of PAL is redoxin‐mediated also in roots. Further studies are needed to determine which TRX is the physiological reductant of PAL in this organ.  [[FIGURE]] Two new putative targets can be classified as metabolism‐related proteins: dihydropyrimidinase and cytidine deaminase (CDA). The first enzyme is involved in the catabolic pathway of pyrimidines and would play a role in the recycling of pyrimidine nitrogen to general nitrogen metabolism under conditions of nitrogen limitation CITATION. Dihydropyrimidinase has been localized within the secretory system, as proposed by targeting prediction programs. CDA catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of various cytosine nucleosides into the corresponding uracil nucleosides. This metalloprotein exhibits a well‐conserved catalytic site motif PCGHCRQ, with the two cysteines coordinating a zinc atom CITATION. CDA is expressed in all tissues, but its transcripts are more abundant in flowers and roots CITATION.  The role of redoxins in defense against oxidative stress is well documented. In particular, the role of TRXy in the reduction of peroxidases has already been reported. Arabidopsis TRXy1 and y2 are very good electron donors to plastidial peroxyredoxin Q CITATION, while TRXy specifically reduced a chloroplastic glutathione peroxidase CITATION. We indeed trapped two peroxidases, i.e. peroxyredoxin TPx and the vacuolar peroxidase 23, an isoform of the target found in starchy endosperm of Triticum aestivum CITATION.  Among the other proteins playing a role in oxidative stress defense, we captured the plastidial monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR, At1g63940), this isoform being identified as a TRX‐linked protein for the first time. This enzyme catalyzes the NADH‐dependent reduction of monodehydroascorbate radical to ascorbate. As a part of the ascorbate–glutathione pathway, it is considered to play a role in the detoxification of ROS. Six isoforms have been described in Arabidopsis: two in the cytosol, two in the peroxysome, one plastidial and one in mitochondria. MDHAR activity has been known for a long time to be affected by thiol‐specific reagents CITATION. The chloroplastic protein was shown to undergo a thiol‐disulfide interchange via intra‐ and intermolecular bridge(s) in A. thaliana chloroplasts CITATION. Recently, it was reported that the cytosolic isoform was partially reduced by thioredoxin h in germinated barley seed embryo, and the reduced cysteine detected in the following sequence: LPGFHVCVGSGGER CITATION. This residue corresponds to the only cysteine conserved in cytosolic and plastidial isoforms of higher plant MDHARs as revealed by multiple sequence alignments (Supporting Information Fig. 4) whereas three other cysteines are conserved only in the plastidial forms. In addition, the plastidial MDHAR is expressed in almost all organs and specially in roots where TRXy1 is also expressed. All these data prompted us to test root MDHAR as a potential physiological target of TRXy1. Figure 3 shows that enzymatic activity in a root crude extract increased threefold after 15 min of incubation in the presence of DTT‐reduced TRXy1, while DTT alone had no effect. After 20 min, a fivefold increase was observed. A significant decrease in activity (27%) was measured in the presence of oxidized DTT and TRXy1, strengthening the hypothesis for a redox‐regulation of MDHAR activity. The fact that DTT alone even at high concentration did not increase the activity suggests that a TRX‐mediated thiol‐disulfide interchange could be responsible for the activation mechanism, instead of a simple regeneration of the catalytic cysteine after thiolation or sulfenation for example. These results are in favor of TRXy1 being the physiological reductant of MDHAR in roots. The cysteines involved in the activation process remain to be identified. The affinity column also retained a cytosolic MDHAR‐like protein (At5g03630), which exhibits 45% identity with the plastidial isoform, and was described to undergo in vitro thiolation in Arabidopsis suspension cultures CITATION but does not contain the conserved cysteine mentioned in CITATION, nor any of the three cys conserved in the plastidial isoforms.  [[FIGURE]] We also identified five new targets that can be classified as proteins playing a potential role in defense/detoxification: an anthranilate N‐benzoyltransferase, a 12‐oxophytodienoate reductase (OPR), the fructan exohydrolase Atcw INV6 (6&1‐FEH), a hyper‐sensitivity related protein (HSR201‐like protein) and the δ‐1‐pyrroline‐5‐carboxylate dehydrogenase (P5CDH). The anthranilate N‐benzoyltransferase catalyses the first step of the biosynthesis of phytoalexin, a compound produced in response to infection by parasites. The Arabidopsis protein is close (46% identity) to its dianthus counterpart, which is induced by elicitor. Biochemical experiments suggested the presence of an intramolecular disulfide bridge maintaining the full activity of the diantheus enzyme after proteolytic cleavage CITATION. The OPR trapped on the thioredoxin column is the cytosolic isoform OPR1 able to reduce a broad range of α‐β unsaturated carbonyl compounds CITATION. As these products are generated during oxidative burst and have cytotoxic activities, a physiological role in their detoxification or modification has been proposed for OPR1 CITATION. The FEH enzyme, first annotated as an invertase, actually degrades inulin and levan‐type fructans CITATION. Since plants of the Brassicacae family do not contain fructan, it has been hypothetized that Arabidopsis FEH could serve a defense function by preventing bacterial fructan formation CITATION. The putative target HSR201 has not been well studied yet in Arabidopsis, but the tobacco HSR201 is preferentially expressed during the hypersensitive reaction provoked by phytopathogenic bacteria. The presence of the transcript was observed at a low level in uninfected roots CITATION. The P5CDH takes part in the two‐step degradation of proline in mitochondria. While proline is considered as a protectant against a wide array of stresses, on the contrary exogenous‐provided Pro is highly toxic for plants and therefore must be rapidly catabolized. The first reaction of degradation, catalyzed by proline dehydrogenase, produces δ‐1‐pyrroline‐5‐carboxylate, which in return is oxidized to glutamate by P5CDH. A recent study reveals that P5CDH is an important regulator in plants and contributes to redox control and to the prevention of ROS formation in mitochondria CITATION. All eukaryotic P5CDH sequences contain an active‐site cysteine CITATION.  The four potential targets acting on folding and translation present in roots have been already proposed or demonstrated as redoxin/glutathionylation targets. However, four new potential targets involved in protein degradation have been found in roots: a putative zinc protease, a subtilisin‐like protease and two aminopeptidases. The serine protease and the aspartyl aminopeptidase have been localized in vacuoles according to proteomic studies CITATION, CITATION, which is not surprising since a major function of vacuoles is protein processing and degradation. The aminopeptidase M is a glycoprotein associated with plasma membranes and is expressed in all mature tissues including roots CITATION. The column also trapped various subunits of proteasome, previously proposed to undergo glutathionylation CITATION and two regulators of RNAses.  Beside the guanine nucleotide‐binding protein already proposed as TRX target in seeds CITATION, we found two proteins impacting on cell signaling, the major latex protein 34 (MLP34), and a 14‐3‐3‐like protein. The precise function of the MLPs is unknown but they have been tentatively associated with fruit and flower development and in pathogen defense response. Twenty‐four members, differentially expressed according to tissue localization, have been identified in Arabidopsis. In roots, at least two of them (MLP28 and MLP43) have a role in gravitropism, the response of a plant to gravity, through binding of hormones CITATION. The isoform trapped on the column was MLP34, the sequence of which is very close (86% identity) to MLP28, with three conserved cysteines. 14‐3‐3s are multifunctional proteins that modulate several biological processes through phosphorylation. They are involved in ion homeostasis and hormone signaling but considering the high number of their putative targets, other physiological roles can be expected CITATION. Interestingly, a proteomic study based on TAP‐tag affinity identified the putative thioredoxin‐like 7 protein (At2g33270) as a possible client of a 14‐3‐3 protein in Arabidopsis CITATION. The sequence comparison of this TRX and TRXs y1/y2 shows a low identity (13%) but the active‐site cysteines are conserved (CGGC versus CGPC). These converging results obtained with different methods strengthen the hypothesis of a possible interaction between 14‐3‐3 and TRX, which would require further investigations. We also put in this category the translationally controlled tumor protein. This protein is highly expressed in roots, especially in actively dividing cell types CITATION and has been identified as an important regulator of growth in plants. 
!~MM~! Protease inhibitor cocktail and sequence grade trypsin were purchased from Roche Diagnostics; Pfu DNA polymerase was from Promega. All other chemicals were obtained as the highest quality available from commercial sources.  A. thaliana (Columbia cv.) 5‐wk‐old plants were cultured aeroponically with nutrient solution (hydrokaniC2, Yara France, Nanterre, France) using the Rainforest aeroponic culture system (GHE, Fleurance, France) (hygrometry 60%, mean temperature 20°C) under 9 h/15 h light (80–100 μE m−2 s−1)/dark regime.  About 20 g of freshly harvested roots were rinsed in distilled water and homogenized in a Polytron device by several 10‐s grindings with 50 mL of a cold extraction buffer (30 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 7.9, 1 mM EDTA, 1.4% w/v PVPP) containing a protease inhibitor cocktail (Antipaïne: 15 μg/mL, Aprotinine: 2 μg/mL, Leupeptine: 3 μg/mL, E‐64: 5 μg/mL, AEBSF: 150 μg/mL, Pepstatine: 0.7 μg/mL). The homogenate was centrifuged 30 min at 4°C at 40 000×g. The supernatant fraction was subjected to an ammonium sulfate precipitation at 0°C (100% saturation) and centrifuged again under the same conditions. Pellets were redissolved in 30 mM Tris‐HCl buffer (pH 7.9) containing 1 mM EDTA and then dialyzed and concentrated by ultrafiltration with a stirred cell equipped with an Ultracel Amicon YM‐10 membrane (MW cut‐off: 10 kDa; Millipore).  Specific primers were designed to create A. thaliana TRXy2 Cys33Ser mutant using PCR technology, as described in CITATION.  A. thaliana mutated y2 thioredoxin (C33S mutant) was covalently coupled to CNBr‐activated sepharose as recommended by the supplier (Amersham Bioscience) with the precautions described previously CITATION and the column was equilibrated with 100 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 7.9, containing 200 mM NaCl (TBS). In total, 1.5 mL of the protein extract (20 mg) was loaded onto this affinity column. After extensive washing, retained proteins were eluted with 1 mM DTT in TBS. The non‐retained proteins were dialyzed, concentrated up to 3 mL and reloaded onto affinity column as described above. The combined DTT‐eluted proteins (about 1.3 mg) were concentrated up to 1 mg/mL.  Proteins were separated in 12% polyacrylamide gels with a Protean II XL system (Biorad) and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R‐250.  The proteins were precipitated by addition of trichloroacetic acid to a final concentration of 14% w/v and the mixture was left 2 h at 0°C. After centrifugation at 18 000×g for 15 min at 4°C, the pellets were successively washed with acetone, 50 mM NH4HCO3 and distillated water. The pellets were then re‐solubilized in 600 μL of urea buffer (8M urea, 4% w/v CHAPS, 20 mM DTT, 0.2% Ampholytes and 0.001% w/v Bromophenol Blue). Dry IPG strips (pH range: 3–10 NL, 17 cm long, Biorad) were swollen overnight at 20°C with the sample under passive loading conditions and isoelectric focusing was performed as recommended by the manufacturer. In the second dimension, proteins were separated in 12% polyacrylamide gels with a Protean II XL system (Biorad) then detected by staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R‐250.  Spots of interest were excised manually, destained and dried by vacuum as previously described CITATION. Tryptic digestion was performed overnight at 37°C in 50 mM NH4HCO3 with 150 ng of trypsin. The supernatants were removed and peptides were extracted with 1% TFA then with 60% ACN containing 1% v/v TFA. The combined extracts were then reduced to approximately 5–10 μL under vacuum. In total, 1.5 μL of tryptic samples was mixed with 1.5 μL of saturated solution of CHCA in 50% ACN, 0.3% TFA, 1.5 μL of this premix was then deposited onto the sample plate and allowed to dry at room temperature. Spectra were acquired on a Voyager DE‐STR MALDI‐TOF mass spectrometer (Perseptive Biosystem) equipped with a 337‐nm nitrogen laser. All spectra were acquired in positive‐ion reflector mode with delayed extraction, using six peptides of known masses as close external calibration standards. Proteins were identified using the search program Mascot PMF (http://www.matrixscience.com) reducing the NCBInr (release 20091202, 10107245 entries) to the A. thaliana species. Two missed cleavage sites, oxidation of methionine and modification of cysteines by iodoacetamide, were considered in searches.  Root tissue (250 mg) was extracted in 1 mL of 0.1 M Tris‐HCl buffer, pH 7.9, containing 1 mM EDTA and 0.2 mg/mL AEBSF. The homogenate was centrifuged at 14 000×g for 10 min and the supernatant was analyzed for PAL activity. PAL activity was assayed in a reaction mixture containing 75 mM Tris‐HCl buffer, pH 8.8, 10 mM L‐phenylalanine and aliquot enzyme in a final volume of 1.0 mL. The reaction was carried out for 10 min at 30°C by the change in absorbance at 290 nm associated with the formation of trans‐cinnamic acid (increase in 0.01 units of absorbance as 3.09 nmol of trans‐cinnamic acid formed).  Freshly harvested root tissue (250 mg) was extracted in 1 mL of 50 mM MES/KOH buffer (pH 6.0), containing 40 mM KCl, 2 mM CaCl2 and 1 mM L‐ascorbic acid (freshly prepared). The homogenate was centrifuged at 14 000×g for 10 min at 4°C, and the supernatant was analyzed immediately for the MDHAR activity. The MDHAR activity was assayed spectrophotometrically at 25°C by the slightly modified method of Hossain and Asada CITATION. The MDHAR reaction was started by adding 0.4 unit of ascorbate oxidase (1 unit defined as the amount of enzyme catalyzing the oxidation of 1 μmol ascorbate per minute) to generate the monodehydroascorbate radical in a reaction mixture (1 mL) containing 50 mM HEPES‐KOH buffer (pH 7.6), 2.5 mM L‐ascorbic acid and 0.25 mM NADPH. The activity is determined by following for 2 min the decrease in absorbance at 340 nm due to the oxidation of NADPH using an absorbance coefficient of 6.22 mM−1cm−1. 
