!~ABS~! Nitrate is frequently the major nitrogen source for plants and is generally assimilated during the day. In the absence of light, nitrate can transiently accumulate in the vacuolar lumen via tonoplast transporters. CLC-a, a member of the CLC family of anion transporters, is critically involved in this nitrate storage in the vacuole, while other CLC family members apparently have different roles in diverse cell organelles. Here, CLC-b, a close relative of CLC-a, was functionally expressed in oocytes and analyzed. CLC-b conducted strongly outwardly rectifying anionic currents that were largest in the presence of nitrate. Fluorescence ratio changes of oocytes loaded with a pH-dependent fluorescent dye suggested that NO−3 transport is associated with H+ exchange. CLC-b was localized at the tonoplast, as was CLC-c, when tagged with the green fluorescent protein. CLC-b expression was strongest in young roots, hypocotyl and cotyledons. The physiological role of CLC-b was analyzed using two independent knock-out alleles. Both lines grew as the wild type in various conditions. The total chloride and nitrate content was identical in clcb lines and the wild type, potentially suggesting that mutants were able to compensate the loss of CLC-b.
!~RES~! CLC-b was expressed in oocytes for functional characterization. Since expression in oocytes had been initially unsuccessful (Hechenberger et al. CITATION), a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged version was used to monitor the expression level in oocytes. Confocal fluorescent analysis suggested that CLC-b was expressed at the rim of the oocyte (Fig. 2A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] CLC-b-expressing oocytes were then exposed to solutions that contained different chloride and nitrate concentrations. A voltage protocol ranging from 100 to −140 mV was used to study these oocytes with two-electrode voltage clamp (Fig. 2B). As with CLC-a (Bergsdorf et al. CITATION), nitrate elicited outward currents in CLC-b-expressing oocytes, but not in the water-injected control oocytes (Fig. 2C–E). The currents were strongly outwardly rectifying. This rectification was similar to that in rat CLC-5 (Steinmeyer et al. CITATION), while CLC-a showed less rectification (De Angeli et al. CITATION, Bergsdorf et al. CITATION). The currents at the most positive potential increased within 30 ms to a steady-state value, indicating that the transport was ‘gated’. These features were similar to a vacuolar current that corresponds to CLC-a in patch clamp analysis (De Angeli et al. CITATION), but were distinct from heterologously expressed CLC-a in oocytes (Bergsdorf et al. CITATION). The current was reduced in the presence of halides (Fig. 2F), which was similar to the CLC-a currents in patch clamp analysis (De Angeli et al. CITATION), but was distinct from CLC-a currents in oocytes (Bergsdorf et al. CITATION). A conductivity sequence of NO−3 > Br− > Cl− > malate2− = I− was measured at positive membrane potentials. The currents were smaller at acidic extracellular pH 5.5 and the reversal potential was shifted by 10.1 ± 3.2 mV (n = 3, from pH 7.5 to 5.5) to more positive values, potentially indicating that the transport was additionally dependent on protons. Whether the nitrate transport was coupled to proton transfer was analyzed in non-voltage-clamped oocytes that were loaded with a pH-sensitive dye, 2′,7′-bis-(carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). After the addition of nitrate, the fluorescence changed in a way that indicated alkalinization of the cytosol. The signal recovered to the original levels after withdrawal of the NO−3 (Fig. 2G, black symbols). This effect was not observed in control oocytes (Fig. 2G, gray symbols) and suggests that NO−3 influx was coupled to H+ efflux, similar to the case of CLC-a, but the exact coupling ratio could not be addressed in these experiments. The subcellular localization of CLC-b was then analyzed using a GFP fusion protein. The CLC-b–GFP fluorescence surrounded the large central vacuole in transiently expressing Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 3A), as had been shown earlier (Lv et al. CITATION). A similar fluorescence was found for CLC-c–GFP (Fig. 3B), which had been identified in the vacuolar proteome (Jaquinod et al. CITATION). The tonoplast fluorescence of CLC-b–GFP was also observed after the isolation of the vacuoles by osmotic shock (Fig. 3C). Control cells expressing untagged GFP showed a staining in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 3D). When stably expressed in Arabidopsis using the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV), the GFP-tagged CLC-b was fluorescent at the tonoplast around the large central vacuole (Fig. 4A–C). A very similar subcellular localization was obtained for CLC-c–GFP, which is shown in roots in Fig. 4D.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The developmental regulation- and tissue-specific expression of CLC-b was analyzed using a reporter gene construct containing a 2 kb promoter fragment. This fragment was cloned in front of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, and wild-type plants were transformed with this construct. The expression pattern was analyzed in homozygous plants from the T2 generation (Fig. 5). The promoter activity was visible early after germination. On day 4, expression was observed in shoots, hypocotyls and roots (Fig. 5). A weaker promoter activity was detected in mature plants, but staining was detected in flowers, predominantly in filaments and petals. This pattern is highly consistent with the expression pattern deduced from public microarray data (available at http://bar.utoronto.ca/efp/) and previous reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) data (Hechenberger et al. CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The physiological function of CLC-b was analyzed with two loss-of-function mutants. Both mutant lines carried a T-DNA insertion in the fifth exon of CLC-b (Fig. 6A). The clcb-1 mutant line was isolated from the GABI collection (GABI_495A10). The T-DNA insertion in clcb-1 was identified at position 2,137 after the ATG codon. This results in a truncated CLC-b mRNA (Fig. 6A) that is predicted to encode only a partial CLC protein, which lacks the large, essential cytoplasmic C-terminus. Northern analysis showed that the CLC-b transcript was strongly reduced in clcb-1, but a weak signal, that may reflect cross-reactivity with CLC-a, was observed (Fig. 6B). The total absence of the full transcript was verified by RT–PCR (Fig. 6B). The second homozygous allele (clcb-2) was isolated from the SALK collection (SALK_027349) and had the T-DNA insertion at position 1,574 after the ATG codon. This insertion was at a position of the open reading frame that codes for an essential transmembrane domain. Consequently, the entire functional CLC-b protein cannot be formed in the mutant (Fig. 6A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The clcb mutant plants were indistinguishable from the wild type (Col-0) when grown in soil. Similarly, no growth phenotype or developmental effect was observed on agar plates using various nutrient media and light conditions. Plants were then grown for 19 d on synthetic media with different nitrate concentrations, to determine the chloride and nitrate content. The plant material was harvested 2 h after the beginning of the light period, when CLC-b was maximal in leaves (Fig. 1B). In the wild type, the total nitrate content was slightly higher when the plants were grown on 6 mM nitrate as exclusive nitrogen source, compared with plants grown on 1.5 mM NH4NO3. The addition of 50 mM NaCl to induce mild salt stress reduced nitrate by about 6-fold. The total chloride content, in contrast, was >4-fold higher when wild-type plants were supplemented with 50 mM NaCl (Fig. 7). The loss of CLC-b did not affect the nitrate and chloride content in clcb-1 and clcb-2 (Fig. 7). Furthermore, clcb and wild-type plants were similarly sensitive to chlorate, an analog of nitrate that causes chlorosis and subsequent growth inhibition of seedlings (data not shown). These data may suggest that CLC-b was completely dispensable or that its loss was compensated by other transporters, potentially CLC-a. The latter possibility is supported by transcript analysis, which identified a high transcript level of CLC-a that was marginally increased in the clcb mutants (Fig. 7C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To generate a translational fusion with GFP, the cDNA sequence of CLC-b (At3g27170) was amplified with primers that deleted the stop codon (Hechenberger et al. CITATION). The resulting PCR fragment was cloned into pCRBluntII (Invitrogen, Darmstadt, Germany), excised and subcloned into a derivate of pPZP212, containing a 35S CaMV promoter, the GFP5(S65T) coding sequence and the pea (Pisum sativum) rbcs terminator. The same strategy was undertaken for CLC-c (At5g49890). The PCR-amplified fragments were checked by full sequencing of the open reading frame. A 2,157 bp promoter fragment preceding the genomic sequence of CLC-b was isolated from genomic DNA using the following primers: 5′-GAGGTACCCTCTCTGTCTTTGTTCACATAAAG-3′ and 5′-GAGgtaccCAGAGTCGACTTCGTATTC-3′. Both primers contained KpnI restriction sites to facilitate cloning into pTkan::GUS (Su et al. CITATION). The resulting binary plasmids were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and selected on 5 μg ml−1 rifampicin, 10 μg ml−1 gentamycin and 100 μg ml−1 spectinomycin. Transformation of Col-0 plants was performed by standard procedures, and the transgenic plants were selected on plates containing MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium with 1% sucrose and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. Two lines that had an identical GUS staining pattern were propagated, and homozygous plants were obtained and analyzed. The histochemical analysis of GUS activity in pCLC-b::GUS lines employed the staining solution 100 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7), 10 mM EDTA, 3 mM K4[Fe(CN)6], 0.5 mM K3[Fe(CN)6], 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc) for 3–24 h at 37°C. A vacuum was applied for a few minutes to facilitate substrate infiltration. The tissues were cleared for several days in 70% ethanol. For axenic growth, seeds were germinated in the dark for 3–4 d on agar plates (0.8%) containing 1.5 mM NH4NO3, 1 mM KH2PO4, 0.5 mM MgSO4, 100 μM NaSiO3, 1.25 mM CaSO4, 50 μM Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 μM H3BO3, 3 μM MnSO4, 1 μM ZnSO4, 1.3 μM CuSO4, 0.03 μM Mo7O24(NH4)6 and 20 mM MES, pH adjusted to 6.0 with Tris. The plants were grown at 22°C with cycles of 16 h light (200 μE) and 8 h dark conditions. In some experiments, plants were propagated on soil in the greenhouse. The T-DNA insertions disrupting CLC-b were identified in the Salk (SALK_027349) and GABI collections (GABI_495A10). The genomic sequence was amplified by PCR and flanking primers B1fw, 5′-AGGTTCCGACCAAAAGCCAGAG-3′; B1rev, 5′-CTTTTCTCTGACCTCGGCCTCC-3′; B2 fw, 5′-AAGTGTGG GTTGTTTGGAAA-3′; LBg (GABI), 5′-ATATTGACCATCATA CTCATTGC-3′; and LBs (SALK), 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTG CAAC-3′. Actin served as control (act2fw, 5′-GTGGGAATGG AAGCTGCTGG-3′; and act2rv, 5′-GACCTGCCTCATCATACT CGG-3′). Primers for the expression analysis of CLC-a were: A1fw, 5′-TCTAGTTAAGGCTAATCGAACA-3′; and A1rv, 5′-TG CACACACTCCTGCAGCTGAG-3′. RNA was isolated using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). cDNA was transcribed from total RNA (2 μg) isolated from seedlings using MMLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas, St. Leon-Rot, Germany) and oligo(dT) primer. The PCR amplifications for actin and CLC-a expression analysis included 25 cycles. For RNA gel blot analyses, RNA (10 μg) was fractionated on a 1% agarose gel in 20 mM MOPS-NaOH at pH 7 with 1 mM sodium acetate, 1 mM EDTA and 6.6% formaldehyde. The RNA was transferred onto a nylon membrane (Amersham Biosciences, Freiburg, Germany) and the membrane was hybridized with 32P-labeled DNA probes at 42°C in 50% formamide, 10% dextran sulfate, 1% N-laurylsarcosine, 75 mM sodium citrate and 750 mM NaCl. The membrane was washed and the signals were quantified on film. For confocal laser scanning microscopy, a Leica TCS SP2 and 488 nm excitation wavelength were used (Leica, Heidelberg, Germany). The recording bandwidth was chosen between 510 and 530 nm. Images were processed in Adobe Photoshop. This was essentially done as in Hechenberger et al. (CITATION), using the identical constructs. Capped cRNA was transcribed from linearized plasmids using the Ambion mMESSAGE mMACHINE kit (SP6 RNA polymerase, Applied Biosystems, Darmstadt, Germany). Part of the ovary was removed from deeply anesthetized (0.1% tricaine; Sigma-Aldrich, Munich, Germany) Xenopus frogs by surgery. Oocytes were treated with collagenase A (Roche) for 1.5 h, manually dissected and kept in ND96 solution (96 mM NaCl, 2 mM KCl, 1.8 mM CaCl2, 2.5 mM Na-pyruvate, 1 mM MgCl2, 5 mM HEPES, pH 7.5). A 50 ng aliquot was injected per oocyte and, prior to the measurements, oocytes were incubated for between 4 and 7 days at 19°C. Two-electrode voltage clamping was performed at room temperature using a Dagan CA-1 amplifier. The solutions for oocyte recording contained 2 mM CaCl2, 2 mM MgCl2, 5 mM MES and either 100 NaCl, or 20 mM NaCl and 80 mM NaNO3, NaBr, NaI or sodium malate (pH 7.2). The Ag/AgCl reference electrode was connected via a 3 M KCl agar bridge to the bath. Intracellular pH changes (pHi) were monitored using the pH-sensitive dye BCECF as described (Ludewig CITATION). Briefly, healthy oocytes were placed in light-protected ND96 containing 5 μM BCECF-AM ester (Invitrogen, Darmstadt, Germany) for 30 min. One or two BCECF-loaded oocytes were then washed in 200 mM sorbitol (supplemented with 2 mM CaCl2, pH 7.2), placed in a chamber and covered with a glass coverslip. The oocytes were positioned below an inverted Leica fluorescence microscope and the oocyte rim was brought into focus. The BCECF fluorescence was measured using a spinning wheel fluorescence system with excitation at 410/30 and 470/20 nm and emission at 535/20 nm. Pictures were taken with a ×20 objective every 10 s. After reaching a stable value, the initial bathing solution with sorbitol was changed to 100 mM NaNO3 (+2 mM CaCl2, pH 7.2) for 3 min and then was changed back to sorbitol. Water-injected, BCECF-loaded oocytes were used as controls. The anion content was analyzed from liquid N2-homogenized material by HPLC using an ion analyzer equipped with an anion chromatography column from Wescan (Gamma Analysen Technik GMBH, Bremerhaven, Germany). The eluent was 2 mM phthalic acid with 10% methanol at pH 5.0).
