!~ABS~! The correct localization of integral membrane proteins to subcellular compartments is important for their functions. Synaptotagmin contains a single transmembrane domain that functions as a type I signal-anchor sequence in its N terminus and two calcium-binding domains (C2A and C2B) in its C terminus. Here, we demonstrate that the localization of an Arabidopsis synaptotagmin homolog, SYT1, to the plasma membrane (PM) is modulated by tandem C2 domains. An analysis of the roots of a transformant-expressing green fluorescent protein-tagged SYT1 driven by native SYT1 promoter suggested that SYT1 is synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum, and then delivered to the PM via the exocytotic pathway. We transiently expressed a series of truncated proteins in protoplasts, and determined that tandem C2A-C2B domains were necessary for the localization of SYT1 to the PM. The PM localization of SYT1 was greatly reduced following mutation of the calcium-binding motifs of the C2B domain, based on sequence comparisons with other homologs, such as endomembrane-localized SYT5. The localization of SYT1 to the PM may have been required for the functional divergence that occurred in the molecular evolution of plant synaptotagmins. 
!~RES~! We generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a fusion protein of SYT1 with EmGFP (Emerald GFP) from the SYT1 native promoter. First, we investigated the biochemical property of SYT1-EmGFP using the crude membrane fraction and the highly purified PM fraction, which were prepared from leaves by means of aqueous two-phase partitioning. In wild-type plants and control plants expressing only EmGFP, anti-SYT1 antibody recognized only 62-kDa proteins, which appeared to be more abundant in the PM fraction than in the crude membrane fraction. In plants expressing SYT1-EmGFP, 89-kDa proteins were detected in addition to the 62-kDa proteins in both the crude membrane and PM fractions (Fig. 1A). In all cases, high levels of the plasma-membrane-type aquaporin (PAQs) were detected in the PM fractions. In addition, the anti-GFP antibody recognized 89-kDa proteins in the PM fraction of plants expressing SYT1-EmGFP and 27-kDa proteins in both the total and soluble protein fractions of control plants expressing EmGFP. The experimental molecular masses of detected SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP correspond to the calculated molecular masses of these proteins, which are about 62 kDa and 89 kDa, respectively, indicating that SYT1-EmGFP fusion proteins are correctly delivered to the PM in transgenic plants.  [[FIGURE]] To further confirm the localization of SYT1-EmGFP, crude membrane fractions were fractionated using the sucrose density gradient centrifugation method (Fig. 1B). SYT1 signals were detected in the 28–41% sucrose fractions of wild-type plants, with maximum signal intensity approximately at the 35% sucrose fraction, in which signals of PAQs were detected. Also, in the transgenic lines, fractionation patterns of SYT1, SYT1-EmGFP, and PAQ signals were almost identical to those of wild-type plants. These data indicate that both SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP are localized only to the PM in leaf cells. In addition, observation of leaf cells expressing SYT1-EmGFP shows that GFP signals are detected mainly in the epidermis and palisade layers, are strong in the vascular bundle, and are localized to the edge of cells (supplemental Figs. S1A and S1B). Interestingly, in guard cells, the SYT1-EmGFP signal was localized to the PM on the outer edges of stomata (supplemental Fig. S1C).  A previous experiment showed that the C2A domain of SYT1 is located in the cytosolic region (CITATION). In the current experiment, because EmGFP was fused to the C terminus of SYT1, the topology of SYT1-EmGFP needed to be confirmed. We used the aqueous two-phase partitioning system to isolate plasma membrane vesicles (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The ATPase activities in the fresh PM fractions were evaluated by using the specific plasma membrane-type ATPase inhibitor vanadate in the presence and absence of Triton X-100 (supplemental Table S2). The fresh PM fractions prepared in our system contained 78.5% right-side-out PM vesicles. Fresh PM fractions prepared from wild-type plants or the transgenic lines were treated with thermolysin in the presence or absence of Triton X-100. The greater the amount of thermolysin applied with 1% Triton X-100, the weaker the signal of SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP detected (Fig. 2A). However, the application of thermolysin without Triton X-100 did not affect the intensity of SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP signals. The signal pattern resulting from thermolysin digestion in the presence or absence of Triton X-100 was similar to that of plasma membrane-type H+-ATPases, which were recognized by anti-PMA2 antibody raised against the C-terminal cytosolic region (Fig. 2B). These results indicate that the topology of SYT1-EmGFP is the same as that of SYT1, and that the EmGFP tag was located in the cytosolic region of the cell. This is because the fresh PM fraction purified by aqueous two-phase partitioning includes much of the right-side-out PM vesicle (CITATION) and, consequently, the portions of proteins located at the inside of vesicles are protected from protease degradation. In addition, SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP were not solubilized when the crude membrane fraction was subjected to alkaline treatment (Fig. 2C). These results collectively suggest that both SYT1 and SYT1-EmGFP are integrated in the PM and that two C2 domains are located in the cytoplasm of Arabidopsis leaf cells.  [[FIGURE]] In roots, the fluorescence signal was strong in the root tip, especially in the quiescent center, columella and epidermis, and vascular bundle, as well as in the differential zone of the tips of root hairs (supplemental Fig. S2). Then, we observed the subcellular localization of SYT1-EmGFP in detail. In division and elongation zones, the fluorescence of SYT1-EmGFP was localized not only to the PM, but also to structures, such as the rough ER, that surrounded the nucleus and extended to the cell surface (Fig. 3, A and B). To visualize the PM, root cells were stained with an impermeable lipid membrane-specific fluorescence dye, FM4–64, which is only taken up into cells via endocytosis and labels the early endosomes (EE) and TGN in plants (CITATION, CITATION). Although the pattern of SYT1-EmGFP fluorescence was almost identical to that of FM4–64-labeled PM, vesicles labeled with SYT1-EmGFP did not overlap with FM4–64-labeled endosomes (Fig. 3, A and B). In dividing cells, SYT1-EmGFP fluorescence was localized to the cell plate (Fig. 3A). In the differentiation zone, SYT1-EmGFP fluorescence in the epidermis showed that SYT1-EmGFP was not uniformly distributed on the PM and seemed to be associated with some microfibers and accumulated in the tips of root hairs (Fig. 3C).  [[FIGURE]] After roots were treated with BFA, which is an inhibitor of the endocytotic pathway in plant cells (CITATION), several endosomes labeled with FM4–64 in the epidermal cells of the elongation zone resulted in large vesicular structures, which are referred to as the BFA compartment (Fig. 3D). These structures only partially overlapped with vesicles labeled with SYT1-EmGFP. These results suggest that SYT1 is targeted to the PM through the exocytosis pathway but tends to be retained in the PM without being removed via the endocytotic recycling pathway.  Next, we tested the contribution of the domain structures of SYT1 for its subcellular localization. Plant Syt proteins consist of four domains: a single TM domain following a few amino acid residues in the N terminus, one SMP domain, which is conserved in plants (CITATION), and two calcium-binding domains, C2A and C2B, in the C terminus. Interestingly, the SMP domain is also conserved in the novel mammal Syt family proteins of E-Syts (CITATION). On the basis of this domain information, seven constructs expressing truncated proteins of SYT1 with EmGFP in the C terminus were designed and introduced into protoplasts isolated from leaves (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] Full-length SYT1 was found to be mainly, but not uniformly, located in the PM of transformed protoplasts (Fig. 4B, row 1). In addition, in this protoplast system, some of the full-length SYT1 proteins seemed to be localized to vesicles, such as the Golgi or the TGN. The localization pattern of truncated SYT1 proteins containing tandem C2A-C2B and SMP domains was very similar to that of full-length SYT1 (Fig. 4B, row 2). In contrast, the truncated proteins containing only the tandem C2A-C2B domains were localized to vesicles such as the Golgi or TGN, but not to the PM (Fig. 4B, row 3). In addition, the proteins containing only the C2B domain seemed to disperse into the cytoplasm (Fig. 4B, row 4). These results suggest that the appropriate localization of SYT1 to the PM is determined by the tandem C2A-C2B and SMP domains. The truncated proteins containing only the putative TM domain were observed in the cytoplasm, but not in any membrane system (Fig. 4B, row 5). However, the truncated proteins containing both the TM domain and the SMP domain (TM-SMP) were localized to vesicles, but not to the PM (Fig. 4B, row 6). Furthermore, the truncated proteins containing TM, SMP, and C2A domains localized to several compartments, but not to the PM (Fig. 4B, row 7).  Next, to analyze the localization of EmGFP-labeled truncated SYT1 proteins containing TM-SMP or C2A-C2B domains, each construct was transfected into protoplasts isolated from the wild-type plant or a transgenic plant expressing CFP-labeled Golgi marker proteins, and the former protoplasts were stained with ER-Tracker to visualize the ER membrane (Fig. 5). The colocalization of EmGFP-labeled proteins was evaluated using Pearson's correlation (see “Experimental Procedures”). Full-length SYT1 proteins tagged with EmGFP partially colocalized with CFP-tagged Golgi marker proteins (r = 0.60) (Fig. 5A, row 1). In contrast, the localization of truncated proteins containing tandem C2A-C2B domains was strongly correlated with that of Golgi marker proteins (r = 0.82) (Fig. 5A, row 2). The truncated proteins containing TM-SMP domains partially colocalized with Golgi marker proteins (r = 0.69) (Fig. 5A, row 3). In the case of ER-Tracker, fluorescence was observed not only on network-like structures, but also on vesicles (Fig. 5C). EmGFP fluorescence associated with full-length SYT1 slightly overlapped with ER-Tracker fluorescence (r = 0.33) (Fig. 5B, row 1). In contrast, EmGFP fluorescence associated with TM-SMP partially overlapped with network-like structures or vesicles stained with ER-tracker (r = 0.71) (Fig. 5B, row 2).  [[FIGURE]] A transient expression assay indicated the importance of the C2A-C2B domain in the PM localization of SYT1. In the Arabidopsis data base (i.e. TAIR), there are five Syt genes that contain only two C2 domains, and these genes may share a common ancestral gene, because the exon-intron structures are highly conserved among the Syt genes (supplemental Fig. S3). From this result, we concluded that the PM localization of SYT1 was responsible for the functional divergence among Arabidopsis Syts. To deduce their evolutionary relationship, we next identified Syt genes containing two C2 domains from the available genomic databases of seven angiosperm plants (monocots: Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor; eudicots: A. thaliana, Medicago truncatula, Populus trichocarpa, Carica papaya, and Vitis vinifera). Although Arabidopsis Syt genes have been termed “SYT” (CITATION, CITATION) in the phylogenetic experiments, they were practically renamed AtSyt, and, similarly, the two-letter species indicators were used to distinguish between the other plant Syt genes. At least four copies of the Syt genes have been retained in each of the plant genomes examined (supplemental Table S3). We did not use AtSyt3 to perform phylogenetic analyses, because the nucleotide sequence of AtSyt3 includes a stop codon in its coding sequence (CITATION) (see also accession numbers AY059741 and BX830716).  In plant Syt genes, the four domain structures described above were conserved, and the most highly conserved region was found in the region of the tandem C2A-C2B domains (supplemental Fig. S4). The amino acid sequences surrounding the C2A and C2B domains and the SMP domain were aligned with the ClustalW program, and then corresponding nucleotide sequences were used to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree based on the neighbor-joining method (Fig. 6). The constructed phylogenetic tree indicates that angiosperm Syt genes had clearly diverged into three clades (the SYT1/2, SYT3, and SYT4/5) and that the SYT3 clade was more closely related to the SYT1/2 clade than to the SYT4/5 clade. Each clade contains Syt genes of both monocots and eudicots. Although the clade of SYT1/2 contained three sister groups and two closely related groups of these were eudicots, the other one comprised monocots. The clade of SYT3 contained a monocotyledonous group and a eudicotyledonous group. Similarly to SYT1/2 clade, SYT4/5 clade also contained two closely related groups of which were eudicots, but the other one comprised monocots. The four Arabidopsis Syt genes (i.e. AtSyt1, AtSyt2, AtSyt4, and AtSyt5) separated into two clades, AtSyt1 and AtSyt2, and AtSyt4 and AtSyt5 were classified into the SYT1/2 and SYT4/5 clades, respectively.  [[FIGURE]] Next, we compared the amino acid sequences of the C2 domains encoded by the four Syt genes. Fig. 7A is a diagrammatic representation of the C2B domain of SYT1 according to the prediction of β-strands and loops of synaptotagmin-related proteins, including plant Syts by Jiménez and Davletov (CITATION). Two loop structures between the first and second β-strands, and between the third and fourth β-strands, are referred to as Loops 1 and 3, respectively. Multiple alignments among plant Syts show that the C2B domains in the SYT1/2 and SYT3 clades lack conserved motifs in Loops 1 and 3 (supplemental Fig. S4), which are required for the direct interaction with calcium and membrane lipids (CITATION). Although Loop 1 of the C2 domain of Syt generally has a conserved motif motif (D1XXXXXD2), in the C2B domain of Arabidopsis SYT1, the first aspartic acid of D1 is substituted with histidine, and three amino acid residues, including D2, are missing. Although Loop 3 of the C2 domain also generally contains a conserved motif (D′1XD′2XXXXXD′3), the first two aspartic acid residues (D′1 and D′2) and the last aspartic acid residue (D′3) are substituted with serine and glutamic acid, respectively, in the C2B domain of Arabidopsis SYT1 (Fig. 7B). Therefore, the C2B domains of Arabidopsis SYT1 and of the other plant Syts in the SYT1/2 clade completely lacked the calcium-binding motifs. Phylogenetic analysis of plant Syt genes and comparison of the amino acid residues of the C2A or C2B domains suggest that the evolutionary change in the calcium-binding motifs of the C2B domain of the SYT1/2 clade may have occurred after the differentiation of Syt genes into the three clades, and may have resulted in the localization of SYT1 to the plasma membrane in plants.  [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis that the localization of SYT1 is affected by the loss of the conserved motifs of Loop 1 and Loop 3 in the C2B domain, we performed a transient expression assay. The localization of SYT1-EmGFP was compared with that of SYT5-EmGFP, which possessed the conserved motifs in Loop 1 and Loop 3 (Fig. 7B), or with the localization of the SYT1-EmGFP mutants, in which the amino acid residues of Loop 1 and/or Loop 3 were exchanged to those of SYT5 (Loop 1* or Loop 3* in Fig. 7B). Although SYT1-EmGFP was localized to the PM and to some endomembranes, SYT5-EmGFP was localized only to endomembranes (Fig. 7C). Interestingly, the SYT1-EmGFP mutants, which has Loop 1* or both Loop 1* and Loop 3*, were localized almost completely to endomembranes, strongly resembling the SYT5-EmGFP localization, but small amounts also localized to the PM (Fig. 7C). However, there was no difference between SYT1-EmGFP and the mutant that only contains Loop 3* (Fig. 7C). Moreover, almost all of the SYT1-EmGFP mutants containing both Loop 1* and Loop 3* colocalized with CFP-labeled Golgi marker proteins (r = 0.93) (Fig. 7D). These results suggest that the localization of SYT1 is determined by the biochemical property of the C2B domain. 
!~MM~! Seeds of wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia; A. thaliana Col0) and SYT1-EmGFP-expressing plants, which were used for the observation of leaf cells, were planted and grown for 3 or 4 weeks as reported earlier (CITATION), with a slight modification of light conditions (16-h photoperiod at 125 μmol/m2/s at soil level). For observation of root cells, SYT1-EmGFP-expressing plants were planted on one-half Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.8% agar and grown for 5 days.  Plasmid clones of full-length cDNA of SYT1 (MIPS code At2g20990; cDNA clone RAFL05-21-F01) and SYT5 (MIPS code At1g05500; cDNA clone RAFL09-84-A22) were obtained from RIKEN Bioriken BioResource Center (CITATION, CITATION).  To prepare the promoter of SYT1 (SYT1p), the nucleotide sequences of the region upstream of SYT1 were obtained from the TAIR genome data base, and primer sets were designed to amplify SYT1p. An 815-bp SYT1p fragment, which is upstream of the start codon of translation, was amplified and cloned into the pENTR vector (Invitrogene) and sequenced. The fragment containing the promoter region was transferred into the pCAMBIA3300 vector containing a BASTA chemical herbicide resistance gene (bar). The coding sequence of SYT1 fused to a 5×Gly linker was subcloned into the pENTR vector, and then transferred to the 5′-end of a EmGFP gene encoding an enhanced green fluorescence protein EmGFP (Invitrogen) at a SalI/NcoI site in a modified gfp transient expression vector containing a CaMV35S promoter in the pUC18 vector (CITATION, CITATION). The SYT1-EmGFP chimera gene was transferred into pCMABIA3300-SYT1p. Truncated forms of SYT1 fused to EmGFP and full-length forms of SYT5 fused to EmGFP at C terminus via a 5×Gly linker were cloned into the pUC18-CaMV35S::EmGFP vector using the same method as for full-length SYT1-EmGFP described above. Mutations of SYT1-EmGFP at the C2B domain were performed using an Inverse PCR-based Mutagenesis Kit (TOYOBO). The list of primers and constructs used is presented in supplemental Table S1.  The constructs were introduced into the A. thaliana Col0 genome using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101). Seeds of T1 plants were planted on Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.8% agar containing 0.01% BASTA, and EmGFP- or SYT1-EmGFP-expressing plants were selected. T2 plants were used for experiments.  A crude membrane fraction was prepared according to a previously described method (CITATION). For fractionation of the organelle membrane vesicles, the crude membrane fractions isolated from 5 g of seedlings were loaded onto 15–50% (w/w) sucrose density linear gradient buffer, and ultracentrifuged at 141,000 × g for 20 h at 4 °C (CITATION). For purification of the plasma membrane fraction, a previously described method was used (CITATION, CITATION). For the protease protection assay, fresh plasma membrane fractions containing 2 μg of proteins in 100 μl of reaction solution were treated with thermolysin (final concentrations of thermolysin were 0, 0.01, 0.1, and 1 μg ml−1) with or without 1% (w/v) Triton-X 100 for 1 h at 4 °C. The reaction was stopped by adding 1 μl of 0.5 m EGTA. For the alkaline assay, the crude membrane fraction containing 20 μg of proteins in 200 μl of reaction solution was treated with 100 mm Na2CO3, and after ultracentrifugation, the supernatant and pellet were separated. The pellet was washed once and then re-suspended in 200 μl of buffer. The proteins in the sample were separated by standard SDS-polyacrylamide electrophoresis on a 12% polyacrylamide gel. A standard silver staining method was used. Immunoblot analyses were performed according to standard procedures. The antigens on polyvinylidene difluoride membranes were visualized using ECL Plus (BD Healthcare). The origin of antibodies used in this study and their dilution ratios are as follows: anti-SYT1, as made previously (CITATION), 1:2,000; anti-GFP, commercial product of TaKaRa Bio, 1:5,000; anti-PAQs (CITATION), 1:20,000; and anti-PMA2, 1:5,000 (recognizes cytosolic region of plasma membrane type H+-ATPase) (CITATION). Vanadate-sensitive ATPase activity was measured in the plasma membrane fractions as described previously (CITATION).  Protoplasts were enzymatically isolated from 4-week-old A. thaliana (Col0) leaves (CITATION, CITATION) or from transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing CFP-labeled Golgi marker proteins (CITATION). Using a standard polyethylene glycol transfection method (CITATION). 10 μg of plasmid DNA of each construct was transfected into 2 × 104 protoplasts in 100 μl of transfection buffer, and then GFP expression was observed after overnight incubation at room temperature. In the colocalization analysis, the protoplasts were stained with 1 μm ER-Tracker Blue-White DPX (Molecular Probes) for 30 min at room temperature (CITATION, CITATION).  For brefeldin A (BFA) treatment, 5-day-old plants grown on one-half Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.8% agar were used. The seedlings were soaked for 30 min in liquid one-half Murashige and Skoog medium containing 10 μm BFA and 16 μm FM4–64 at room temperature, and then observed with microscopy.  A confocal fluorescent microscope BX-61 with a disc-scanning unit (Olympus) was used. All observations were performed at room temperature. For observations of leaf cells, young leaves were mounted in a piece of 4% low melting agar gel and sliced at a thickness of 75–80 μm with a vibrating blade (HM 650 V, MICROM International) in a buffer containing 1 mm MES/KOH (pH 5.7). For protoplast observation, protoplasts suspended in suspension buffer were attached to a coverslip coated with 10 mg/ml polylysine. EmGFP fluorescence and FM4–64 fluorescence or autofluorescence of chlorophyll in chloroplasts were detected using the U-MGFPHQ and U-MWIG2 filter sets (Olympus), respectively. In the colocalization analysis of truncated SYT1-EmGFP and CFP-labeled Golgi marker protein or ER-Tracker, the following filter sets were used: for EmGFP, HQ500/20× EX (excitation filter), Q515LP BS (dichroic miller), and HQ535/30m EM (emission filter; Chroma); for CFP, the U-MCFPHQ filter set (Olympus); for ER-Tracker, 400DF15 (excitation filter), 415DRLP (dichroic miller), and 450DF65 (emission filter, Omega). The following objective lenses (Olympus) were used: UPlanApo 20×/0.70 numerical aperture (NA) (supplemental Figs. S1 and S2) and UPlanApo 40×/0.85 NA (Figs. 3, 4, 5, and 7). The fluorescence in optical sections in each 2 μm was captured using a cooling monochrome charge-coupled device camera CoolSNAP HQ (Photometrics) and imaged with imaging software (SlideBook, Intelligent Imaging Innovations). All captured images were deconvoluted by a command, and the images presented in Figs. 3C, 4, 5, and 7 were processed to generate projections using a command in SlideBook. The colocalization of EmGFP-labeled proteins and CFP-labeled proteins or ER-Tracker-labeled membranes was evaluated using the Pearson's correlation in SlideBook, which estimates the correlation between the intensity in one channel and the intensity in another channel. The values are calculated as r-values; 0.0 signifies no matching trend in intensities, 1.0 means complete correlation, and −1.0 implies anti-correlation.  Nucleotide sequences of SYT-like genes in A. thaliana were retrieved from the genomic database (TAIR, www.arabidopsis.org). To identify SYT-like genes in Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Medicago truncatula, Populus trichocarpa, Carica papaya, and Vitis vinifera, we performed TBLASTN searches against the available genomic databases using amino acid sequences encoded by Syt genes in A. thaliana as queries. The following databases were used: Rice Annotation Project Data base (rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp) for O. sativa; JGI Sorghum bicolor v1.0 (genome.jgi-psf.org/Sorbi1/Sorbi1.home.html) for S. bicolor; mips Medicago truncatula Project (mips.gsf.de/proj/plant/jsf/medi/index.jsp) for M. truncatula; JGI Populus trichocarpa v1.1 (genome.jgi-psf.org/Poptr1_1/Poptr1_1.home.html) for P. trichocarpa; Papaya Genome Project v0.4 in CoGe (synteny.cnr.berkeley.edu/CoGe/) for C. papaya; and Grape Genome Browser (www.genoscope.cns.fr/externe/GenomeBrowser/Vitis/) for V. vinifera. The nucleotide sequences encoding the SMP, C2A, and C2B domains were concatenated, and the amino acid sequences were then aligned using the ClustalW program built into phylogenetic analysis software MEGA4 (www.megasoftware.net/index.html) (CITATION). After excluding the nucleotides at the third position in each codon, the evolutionary distances were calculated using the Tamura-Nei method by using MEGA4 (CITATION). Phylogenetic trees were reconstructed using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION). The bootstrap values were calculated with 1000 replications.  For analysis of gene structures, nucleotide sequences of genomic DNA and full-length cDNA, and annotated gene structure data encoding SYT genes in the Arabidopsis genome were obtained from TAIR. Based on these data, the positions of each exon and intron were compared manually, and exon length to intron length was maintained at a constant ratio.  Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBankTM/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: SYT1 (At2g20990), RAFL05–21-F01; SYT2 (At1g20080); SYT3 (At5g04220), AY059741 and BX830716; SYT4 (At5g11100); and SYT5 (At1g05500), RAFL09–84-A22. The accession numbers used in the phylogenetic tree are presented in supplemental Table S2. 
