!~ABS~! Here, we characterize a plastidial thioredoxin (TRX) isoform from Arabidopsis thaliana that defines a previously unknown branch of plastidial TRXs lying between x- and y-type TRXs and thus was named TRX z. An Arabidopsis knockout mutant of TRX z had a severe albino phenotype and was inhibited in chloroplast development. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis of the mutant suggested that the expressions of genes that depend on a plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) were specifically decreased. Similar results were obtained upon virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of the TRX z ortholog in Nicotiana benthamiana. We found that two fructokinase-like proteins (FLN1 and FLN2), members of the pfkB-carbohydrate kinase family, were potential TRX z target proteins and identified conserved Cys residues mediating the FLN–TRX z interaction. VIGS in N. benthamiana and inducible RNA interference in Arabidopsis of FLNs also led to a repression of PEP-dependent gene transcription. Remarkably, recombinant FLNs displayed no detectable sugar-phosphorylating activity, and amino acid substitutions within the predicted active site imply that the FLNs have acquired a new function, which might be regulatory rather than metabolic. We were able to show that the FLN2 redox state changes in vivo during light/dark transitions and that this change is mediated by TRX z. Taken together, our data strongly suggest an important role for TRX z and both FLNs in the regulation of PEP-dependent transcription in chloroplasts.
!~RES~! To identify previously uncharacterized TRXs encoded by the Arabidopsis genome, we used BLASTP to search the Arabidopsis protein set lodged with The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; www.Arabidopsis.org). When using TRX x as query sequence, a BLASTP hit (At3g06730) with low, albeit significant, similarity (E-value 1.0 e−11) to TRX x could be identified. The protein, annotated as thioredoxin family protein, contains the characteristic TRX active site signature C106GPC109 (redox active Cys residues numbered according to their position in the polypeptide chain). In silico analysis of At3g06730 by ChloroP (CITATION) strongly suggested that the protein contains a plastid targeting sequence with a potential cleavage site at amino acid position 81. To investigate the localization of At3g06730 in vivo, a C-terminal fusion between the first 81 amino acid residues of the precursor sequence and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) was transiently expressed in leaves of N. benthamiana plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration. Confocal laser scanning microscopy of infiltrated leaves revealed that GFP fluorescence was exclusively associated with chloroplasts, demonstrating the targeting of At3g06730 to these organelles (Figure 1A). In control leaves expressing free GFP, the distribution of green fluorescence was clearly extrachloroplastic (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the At3g06730 protein shows disulfide reductase activity, insulin reduction assays were performed (CITATION). In the presence of DTT, thioredoxin reduces the intermolecular disulfide bonds between the insulin A and B chains. Precipitation of the insoluble B chain can be measured photometrically by an increase in the absorbance at 650 nm. The assay was performed with recombinant His-tagged At3g06730 lacking the predicted chloroplast targeting peptide. As shown in Figure 1B, recombinant His-tagged At3g06730 was able to accelerate the reduction of insulin in the presence of DTT, clearly demonstrating that At3g06730 possesses disulfide reductase activity in vitro. These results led us to conclude that At3g06730 encodes a previously unrecognized plastid-targeted TRX. A phylogenetic tree built from the alignment of At3g06730 to other plastidic and mitochondrial TRXs from Arabidopsis revealed that At3g06730 encodes a TRX relatively distant from previously identified TRXs, defining a new branch most related to x- and y-type TRXs (Figure 1C). In accordance with the previous TRX nomenclature, we thus named it TRX z. Further homology searches made it possible to identify TRX z orthologs in many other plant species, including both dicots and monocots. Alignment of the sequences revealed that all sequences possess a variable N-terminal extension likely corresponding to a chloroplast transit peptide (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Interestingly, the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) ortholog of TRX z has previously been identified as an interaction partner of the resistance protein Cf-9 and hence was named CITRX (for Cf9-9-interacting thioredoxin) (CITATION). However, the wide distribution of TRX z in plants suggests that this type of chloroplast TRX has a more general function beyond that in Cf9-mediated disease resistance. After having established that TRX z is a plastid-localized TRX, we next sought to investigate the role of TRX z in planta. An Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion line tagged in the first intron of the TRX z gene at position −428 of the genomic sequence relative to the start codon (Figure 2A) was identified from the SALK collection (Salk_028162C, trx z) and used for further analysis. A ratio of 161:62 kanamycin-resistant to -sensitive plants was observed when seeds of F2 plants were germinated on kanamycin. This is consistent with the 3:1 (72.2%:27.8%) ratio expected for a single T-DNA insert. Homozygous plants were obtained by self-pollination (Figure 2A). RT-PCR analysis showed that the TRX z transcript was absent in those plants, indicating a complete knockout (Figure 2A). Homozygous seedlings had pale yellowish leaves and were retarded in growth when grown on agar plates supplemented with sucrose (Figure 2B). When transferred to soil, seedlings ceased growth and subsequently died (data not shown). To prove further that the lack of TRX z transcript was responsible for phenotype of the homozygous trx z mutant, the full-length TRX z open reading frame driven by the 35S promoter was introduced into the trx z mutant background. As homozygous trx z plants are unable to grow autotrophically, transformation was performed in heterozygous plants. The phenotype of one representative homozygous BASTA-resistant T2 complemented line (out of six independent lines analyzed) is shown in Figure 2B. Complementation rescued the trx z mutant phenotype and restored growth on soil. Some leaves still displayed slight chlorosis at the leaf margins, suggesting that expression of the 35S promoter TRX z cDNA fusion did not yield complete rescue of the trx z mutant phenotype in specific cells. RT-PCR using primers specific for the TRX z coding region amplified a fragment in complemented plants but not in the untransformed trx z mutant (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). This result demonstrates that the expression of the TRX z open reading frame from the 35S promoter is sufficient to restore a green wild-type phenotype. Therefore, we conclude that trx z corresponds to a mutant allele of the TRX z gene and that TRX z is required for normal plant growth in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To gather additional evidence that TRX z is important for normal development in plants, we switched to transient virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in N. benthamiana and examined the biological function of the orthologous TRX isoform in this species. A database search identified an N. benthamiana sequence (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) that shared 98% similarity on the polypeptide level with TRX z from Arabidopsis throughout the predicted mature proteins. Thus, the protein was regarded as the N. benthamiana ortholog of Arabidopsis TRX z and subsequently named Nb-TRX z in our studies. A 120-bp fragment from the variable 5′ end of the coding region predicted to specifically silence the Nb-TRX z isoform was cloned into a tobacco rattle virus (TRV) silencing vector (CITATION). Two weeks after silencing, the time used for all biological experiments in this work, TRV:TRX z N. benthamiana plants displayed severe leaf chlorosis in leaves that emerged after infiltration of the silencing constructs (Figure 2C). RT-PCR analysis showed decreased transcript levels for TRX z, confirming silencing of the target gene by TRV:TRX z, while the expression of two other TRX isoforms tested was not affected in TRV:TRX z plants (Figure 2C). The phenotype of the TRX z–silenced N. benthamiana plants closely resembled that of the trx z Arabidopsis knockout mutant, indicating that both proteins serve similar essential functions in these two plant species. We used transmission electron microscopy to investigate morphological changes in the plastids of plants in which TRX z expression had been reduced or lost completely. As shown in Figure 3, plastids of trx z mutant Arabidopsis plants lacked internal membrane structures, such as stromal thylakoids or stacked grana thylakoids. In addition, there were many densely stained globular structures, probably plastoglobuli (Figure 3A). Organelle development in TRV:TRX z N. benthamiana plants is also severely impaired. Compared with the control plant, grana structures were unequally expanded and grana-interlacing stroma thylakoids are completely missing (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] The chlorotic phenotype and the alterations in chloroplast ultrastructure of the trx z Arabidopsis knockout mutant and the TRV:TRX z VIGS plants suggests that TRX z is required for chloroplast biogenesis and differentiation. Recently, TRX z was identified by proteomics analysis as a component of plastid transcriptionally active chromosomes (TACs) isolated from mustard (Sinapis alba) and Arabidopsis (CITATION). Plastid transcription depends on the plastid-encoded plastid RNA polymerase PEP and the nuclear-encoded plastid RNA polymerase NEP (CITATION). PEP preferentially transcribes photosynthesis-related genes in mature chloroplasts, whereas NEP preferentially transcribes housekeeping genes during early phases of development. Based on their promoter structures, plastid genes can be grouped into three classes (CITATION). Transcription activities of many photosynthesis-related genes depend largely on PEP (class I), whereas genes from the rpoB operon and accD are transcribed exclusively by NEP (class III). Nonphotosynthetic housekeeping genes are generally transcribed by both PEP and NEP (class II). If TRX z was related to one of the plastidial RNA polymerases, we anticipated specific transcriptional changes in chloroplast gene expression to occur in trx z Arabidopsis and TRV:TRX z N. benthamiana plants. Therefore, we used quantitative real-time RT-PCR to analyze the levels of transcripts that encode several chloroplast proteins transcribed by NEP and/or PEP in these plants in relation to control specimens (Figure 4). psaA, psbA, psbK, and rbcL were selected as PEP-dependent genes (class I), accD, rpoA, and rpoB were selected as NEP-dependent genes (class III), and clpP and ndhB were chosen as class II genes. The analysis revealed a consistent decrease in mRNA levels of class I genes, while transcript levels for class III genes were enhanced in both trx z and TRV:TRX z plants (Figure 4). For class II genes also, accumulation of mRNA was higher in plants with a loss of TRX z function. The expression of nuclear-encoded genes whose gene products are targeted to the chloroplast (psaE, psaH, psaO, trx f1, and trx x) was unaffected in both trx z and TRV:TRX z plants (Figure 4). This indicates that the changes in chloroplast gene expression observed are not due to a general effect on transcription. Taken together, these results suggest that TRX z is required for PEP-dependent transcription in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] We next sought to identify possible TRX z target proteins using a yeast two-hybrid approach. To this end, the predicted mature TRX z protein ranging from amino acid 81 to 183 was used in fusion with the GAL4 BD as bait to screen two different two-hybrid cDNA libraries from different tissues of Arabidopsis. Of ∼9 × 107 primary transformants, 239 clones were selected for being positive in growing on His-selective plates and additionally showing LacZ activity. From these, 85 clones were randomly chosen and further analyzed by DNA sequencing. Forty inserts encoded two different members of the pfkB-type carbohydrate kinase protein family (At3g54090, 16 times; At1g69200, 24 times). A conserved domain search revealed the presence of a fructokinase domain in both proteins (domain cd01167; CITATION), and an alignment of the respective protein region of At3g54090 and At1g69200 to the fructokinase domain of FRK3, an experimentally confirmed fructokinase from tomato (CITATION), showed a high degree of sequence conservation between the three proteins in this region (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). We therefore named At3g54090 FLN1 (fructokinase-like protein 1) and At1g69200 FLN2 (fructokinase-like protein 2). The 16 FLN1 sequences consisted of three different clones starting with either amino acid 8, 12, or 20 of the predicted FLN1 polypeptide, while the FLN2 group consisted only of two different clones starting with residues 176 and 187, respectively. The specificity of the interaction between TRX z and the two FLNs was verified by retransforming the respective plasmids back into the yeast reporter strain in combination with either the bait plasmid BD-TRX z or control plasmids (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] For the interaction to be relevant in vivo, both partners have to be expressed in the same tissue. Using the Arabidopsis coresponse database (http://csdb.mpimp-golm.mpg.de; CITATION), we searched for transcriptional correlations using transcript profiles of all Arabidopsis tissues of the AtGenExpress developmental series (CITATION) and the nonparametric Spearman's Rho rank correlation (rs), which ranges from +1 to −1 (the closer the correlation is to either +1 or −1, the stronger the relationship). The analysis revealed an exceptionally high degree of coexpression between TRX z and the two FLNs. The rs for TRX z and FLN1 was 0.9497, and for TRX z and FLN2, it was 0.9490. FLN1 and FLN2 contained a putative N-terminal chloroplast-targeting sequence predicted by ChloroP (CITATION). To confirm the localization of these proteins in plant cells, we generated constructs containing the full-length cDNA of FLN1 and FLN2, respectively, fused to the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) at their C termini. Transient expression of FLN:YFP fusion proteins in epidermal cells of tobacco leaves by means of particle bombardment resulted in YFP fluorescence in discrete regions inside chloroplasts (Figure 6A). The fluorescent pattern of both FLNs inside chloroplasts resembles the appearance of nucleoids that are located within the stroma as small particles mostly associated with thylakoids. Hence, we analyzed whether FLN:YFP fluorescence was colocalized with cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fused with PEND (for plastid envelope DNA binding), a well-characterized DNA binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of the developing chloroplast (CITATION). In accordance with previously published data, fluorescence signals of PEND:CFP were observed in the cell nucleus and chloroplast nucleoids (Figure 6B). An overlay with FLN:YFP fluorescence shows colocalization with PEND:CFP signals in the chloroplast, indicating that both FLN1 and FLN2 colocalized with nucleoids in leaf chloroplasts (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the association of TRX z and the FLNs in planta, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was performed in N. benthamiana plants using transient expression via particle bombardment (CITATION). The entire coding region of TRX z was fused to the C-terminal YFP fragment (YFPC), whereas the coding regions of FLN1 and 2 were individually fused with the N-terminal YFP fragment (YFPN). Pairwise expression of unfused YFPN and YFPC or their combination with the respective FLN fusions induced no YFP fluorescence (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). By contrast, strong YFP fluorescence was observed when combinations of TRX z and FLN1 or FLN2 were expressed, demonstrating TRX z/FLN complex formation in plant cells (Figure 6C). Similar to the fluorescence pattern observed for the FLN:YFP fusion proteins, the YFP signal in TRX z/FLN BiFC experiments was also detected in specific regions inside the chloroplast most likely representing nucleoids (Figure 6B). Taken together, these results strongly support the hypothesis that TRX z and FLNs interact inside chloroplast and function in chloroplast nucleoids. The Cys residues in the active site of TRXs enable them to reduce other Cys-containing proteins. When these Cys residues are in the reduced form, the first Cys in the TRX active site (Cys-106 in TRX z) can form a mixed disulfide with the target protein. This intermolecular disulfide bond is quickly reduced by the second Cys (Cys-109 in TRX z), resulting in release of the reduced target protein from the oxidized TRX. However, TRXs can also bind to other proteins by electrostatic interactions, possibly enabling the interacting protein to achieve an optimal conformation (CITATION). To investigate the role of the active-site Cys residues in mediating the interaction of TRX z with the FLNs, Cys-106 and Cys-109 were individually mutated to Ser by site-directed mutagenesis. Subsequently, the ability of the mutated TRX z variants to bind to FLNs was analyzed in yeast using a quantitative β-galactosidase assay. If binding of TRX z to FLN is thiol dependent, the Cys-106 to Ser mutation should weaken the interaction, whereas the substitution of Cys-109 by Ser should not affect the formation of a mixed disulfide between TRX and a given target protein. As shown in Table 1 the Cys106Ser mutation strongly reduced the interaction strength of TRX z with both FLNs compared with the wild-type TRX z, indicating that TRX z binding to FLNs involves the formation of a mixed disulfide. Accordingly, the Cys109Ser substitution left the interaction strength unaffected. These results clearly demonstrate that binding of TRX z to the two FLNs is thiol dependent and not solely mediated by electrostatic interactions and thus fulfils one of the requirements for a true TRX–target protein interaction. Summary of the Quantitative β-Galactosidase Measurement in Yeast Two-Hybrid Assays To validate FLN1 and FLN2 as TRX target proteins, we sought to identify conserved Cys residues in their primary structures. An alignment of FLN1 and FLN2 sequences identified in other plant species revealed the presence of a double Cys motif conserved throughout the 18 sequences analyzed (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). With respect to the Arabidopsis FLNs, the double Cys motif is located at positions 105 and 106 in FLN1 and at 208 and 209 in FLN2. To assess the role of individual Cys residues in mediating TRX z–FLN interaction, we performed site-directed mutagenesis. Three mutated variants of each FLN were fused to the GAL 4 activation domain and further assayed for interaction with BD-TRX z by quantitative β-Gal measurements. The Cys105Ala mutation in FLN1 did not affect the interaction with TRX z, whereas the Cys106Ala substitution reduced TRX z binding by ∼90% as judged from a reduction in β-Gal activity (Table 1). In case of FLN2, the picture was slightly different as each Cys to Ala mutation within the double Cys motif had a similar effect on interaction strength; they both reduced β-Gal activity by ∼70% (Table 1). Only when both consecutive Cys residues were mutated at the same time was the interaction between either FLN or TRX z completely abolished (Table 1). This indicates that the two consecutive conserved Cys residues within the FLN protein sequence play an important role in the formation of a mixed disulfide with TRX z. Moreover, loss of one Cys at this position may be partially compensated for by the remaining residue. If the FLNs were the main regulatory target proteins for TRX z, we anticipated that a reduction of FLN expression would lead to similar phenotypic effects, as previously observed for a loss of TRX z function. An inspection of the respective databases failed to identify an obvious insertional mutant for either of the two Arabidopsis FLN proteins at the time of these studies. Therefore, we created transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing either a FLN1 or a FLN2 RNA interference construct under control of an ethanol-inducible promoter (iRNAi). In addition, the TRV VIGS system was used to silence the FLN1 and FLN2 orthologs individually in N. benthamiana. Four to six days after induction with ethanol, Arabidopsis FLN1 and FLN2 RNAi plants displayed partial chlorosis that was first visible in the top leaves and also appeared in nascent leaves that developed after induction (Figure 7A). Leaves that developed after agroinfection of TRV:FLN1 N. benthamiana plants were severely bleached 14 d after induction. Virus-mediated silencing of FLN2 affected leaf pigmentation only very mildly (Figure 8A). The phenotypic changes were in all cases restricted to very young leaves or leaves that emerged after the respective treatment. Leaves that were fully developed at the time of ethanol induction or agroinfection never displayed chlorosis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Given the strong phenotype of TRV:FLN1 N. benthamiana plants, we again used transmission electron microscopy to investigate morphological changes in the plastids of these plants. As shown in Figure 8B, the plastids in tissues taken from phenotypic leaves of TRV:FLN1 plants were highly vacuolated and lacked internal membrane structures, such as single stromal thylakoids or stacked grana thylakoids, and they contained abnormal suborganelle structures. In addition, there was a considerable number of densely stained globular structures, probably plastoglobuli. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis of chloroplast gene expression in phenotypically affected leaves revealed a consistent downregulation of PEP-dependent class I genes in Arabidopsis iRNAi FLN plants as well as in TRV:FLN N. benthamiana plants (Figures 7B and 8C). By contrast, transcript levels of NEP-dependent class III genes, as well as of class II and nuclear-encoded genes, were not consistently affected by a reduction of FLN expression with only a few exceptions in TRV:FLN1 plants (Figure 8C). In agreement with the phenotypic differences between TRV:FLN1 and TRV:FLN2 N. benthamiana plants, suppression of FLN2 affected class I transcript levels much less than did suppression of FLN1, although the reduction in FLN transcript itself was comparable between both types of plants (Figure 8C). Taken together, these data suggest that FLN1 and FLN2 are involved in PEP-dependent transcription in plastids in a way similar to that observed for their interaction partner TRX z. To investigate FLN1 and FLN2 function on the biochemical level, both predicted mature proteins were produced in E. coli as a fusion to the maltose binding protein and purified by affinity chromatography using amylose resin. As a control protein, we included FRK3 (At1g66430), an Arabidopsis ortholog of tomato fructokinase 3, which has been shown to be a plastidic fructokinase (CITATION; CITATION). Whereas enzymatic activity for MBP-AtFRK3 was readily detectable, neither of the two recombinant MBP-FLN fusion proteins showed detectable fructokinase activity (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The addition of 50 mM DTT alone or in combination with recombinant TRX z protein prior to the enzyme measurement did not yield detectable enzymatic activity, indicating that both recombinant FLNs do not possess redox-dependent fructokinase activity (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Phylogenetic analyses were conducted to gain further insights into the evolutionary origins and possible functions of the FLNs (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). These showed that both FLN1 and FLN2 are conserved in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous angiosperms, but in the moss Physcomitrella patens, only FLN1 is present. No close homologs were found in various bacterial and yeast genomes, suggesting that the FLNs first evolved in the green plant lineage and predate the appearance of vascular plants. Their close phylogenetic relationship with known fructokinases indicates that the FLNs may have evolved from an active FRK or that they share a common ancestor with the FRKs. Protein sequence alignment between plant fructokinases for which enzymatic activity has been reported and FLNs revealed a noticeable sequence divergence within the pfkB signature motif II, an amino acid stretch that has been implicated as playing a role in substrate and/or cofactor binding in this enzyme family (CITATION; CITATION). All enzymatically active fructokinases from plants described so far contain a conserved motif II (DTTGAGD), whereas this motif has been altered to DRTGSGD in FLN1 and DMSA/QSGD in FLN2 (see Supplemental Figure 5 and Supplemental Figure 8 online). Members of the pfkB family of carbohydrate kinases phosphorylate a range of sugar substrates. Therefore, we employed thin layer chromatography to investigate FLN sugar phosphorylating activity using galactose, mannose, psicose, tagatose, and xylose as substrates. However, none of these sugars appeared to be phosphorylated by recombinant FLN1 or FLN2 (data not shown). Taken together, these results make it at least questionable that FLN1 and FLN2 are functional sugar kinases in vivo. Finally, we sought to assess the in planta redox state of FLN2 by visualizing changes in protein mobility in nonreducing SDS-PAGE using an FLN2-specific antibody. To investigate the role of TRX z in FLN2 reduction, wild-type and trx z Arabidopsis mutant plants were analyzed. Samples were taken from leaves of agar grown plants either during the light or after 1 h of darkening. As shown in Figure 9, under reducing conditions, a clear band matching the expected size of the mature FLN2 protein could be detected in wild-type and trx z plants independent of whether the samples were taken during the light or after darkening. This indicates that FLN2 was expressed to a similar level in both genotypes and under both conditions. The picture changed when the same samples were run under nonreducing conditions (Figure 9). The FLN2-specific band in wild-type plants was readily detectable in samples taken during illumination, whereas the signal intensity was greatly reduced in dark treated samples. This strongly suggests that the redox state of FLN2 is regulated in vivo by a change of the redox environment in chloroplasts during light/dark transitions. In samples taken from wild-type plants in the light, the FLN2 band runs slightly slower than in the same samples taken from darkened leaves. This was true under reducing and nonreducing conditions and might indicate that FLN2 undergoes an additional posttranslational modification (e.g., phosphorylation) following reduction in the light. Indeed, an inspection of the PhosPhAt database (http://phosphat.mpimp-golm.mpg.de; CITATION) revealed a possible phosphorylated Ser either at position 131 or 132 of the FLN2 polypeptide. Unexpectedly, no additional band indicative of an oxidized form of FLN2 migrating at a size different from the reduced form could be detected in the immunoblots from nonreducing SDS-PAGE. This could either be due to the inability of the FLN2 antibody to detect the oxidized form of FLN2 or because oxidized FLN2 builds higher molecular weight complexes that do not migrate into the gel. When analyzed under nonreducing conditions, no FLN2 band could be detected in samples taken from trx z Arabidopsis plants independent of whether the material was harvested during illumination or after darkening (Figure 9). This clearly indicates that in vivo changes of the FLN2 redox state during light/dark transitions are predominantly mediated by TRX z. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar (Sigma-Aldrich) plates supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose and cultivated in tissue culture under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime (irradiance 150 μmol quanta m−2 s−1) at 50% humidity. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col) was used. The single insert trx z (Salk_028162) T-DNA Arabidopsis insertion mutant was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (Nottingham University) and confirmed by PCR-based genotyping using the primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Nicotiana benthamiana seeds were germinated on soil and cultivated in the greenhouse under a light/dark regime of 16 h light (25°C) and 8 h dark (20°C). The entire coding region of TRX z was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis cDNA using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table 1 online. The PCR fragment was subcloned into pENTR-D/TOPO (Invitrogen) and subsequently recombined into the binary vector pB2GW7 (CITATION) using L/R-Clonase (Invitrogen). The resulting construct was designated p35S:TRX z and used to transform heterozygous TRX z/trx z Arabidopsis plants using floral dip transformation (CITATION). For subcellular localization studies of TRX z, the portion of the sequence encoding the predicted signal peptide (amino acids 1 to 81) was amplified by PCR using the primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The resulting PCR product was inserted into the vector pENTR-D/TOPO (Invitrogen). To generate a translational fusion between the TRX z TP and GFP, the fragment was subsequently recombined into the destination vector pK7WGF2 (CITATION) using L/R-Clonase (Invitrogen). Using a similar strategy, the entire coding sequences of FLN1 and FLN2 were amplified by PCR and individually inserted into pENTR-D/TOPO. As the destination vector, a Gateway system–compatible version of the pFF19-YFP vector (CITATION) was used. For the PEND:CFP construct, a DNA fragment encoding the N-terminal region of PEND (88 amino acids) was amplified from genomic DNA and inserted into pFF19-CFP. Primers used for cloning of the above mentioned fragments are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. A pBIN19 derivative carrying a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S–driven GFP was used as free GFP control (CITATION). Subcellular localization of several TRX z and FLN fusion proteins was analyzed using GFP, YFP, and CFP fluorescence. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum var Samsun NN) leaves were transiently transformed with the respective constructs by particle bombardment using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000 He particle delivery system according to the manufacturer's instructions. GFP, YFP, and CFP fluorescence was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Leica TCS SP2). Double-labeled cells were scanned sequentially to prevent any crosstalk between fluorescence channels. For transmission electron microscopy, images were obtained as described (CITATION). Entry clones of FLN1 and FLN2 in pENTR-D/TOPO comprising the entire coding region of each cDNA were used in a L/R-reaction with a Gateway system–compatible version (Invitrogen) of the BiFC vector pUC-SPYCE (CITATION). In the same way, the TRX z cDNA was inserted into the complementary BiFC vector pUC-SPYNE (CITATION). Constructs were delivered into leaf cells of tobacco by particle bombardment using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000 He particle delivery system according to the manufacturer's instructions. The BiFC-induced fluorescence was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy after 24 h of incubation at 22°C in the dark. Constructs for ethanol-inducible RNA interference of FLN1 and FLN2 were generated as described (CITATION) employing cDNA fragments amplified with specific primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The resulting constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method (CITATION). For selection of transgenic plants, T1 seeds were surface sterilized and sown onto MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich) supplemented with Gamborg's vitamin solution (1:1000) and 50 μg of kanamycin per mL. Plants were given cold treatment for 2 d to synchronize germination before incubation under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod (150 μM m−2 s−1 light, 21°C) at 50% relative humidity. Two weeks after germination, the plants were transferred to soil and further cultivated in the greenhouse for additional 9 d. Expression of the RNAi construct was achieved by root drenching the plants with 1% ethanol (750 mL per tray; 35 pots with single plants; 6-cm pot diameter). For recombinant protein production, cDNAs of FLN1, FLN2, and FRK3 from which the part encoding the predicted transit peptide had been removed were cloned into the pMal-c2 vector (New England Biolabs). The resulting plasmids were transformed into E. coli strain DH5a and the protein expressed as outlined in the instructions accompanying the pMal-c2 vector. Bacteria were lysed by sonication. After centrifugation, the recombinant proteins were purified using amylose resin and eluted using maltose. The purified proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. For expression of recombinant TRX z in E. coli, the sequence encoding the predicted mature protein was amplified by PCR using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table 1 online. The forward primer was designed to introduce a His6-tag at the 5′ end of the fragment. The PCR product was inserted into the pMal-c2 vector, and the recombinant protein was expressed and purified as described above. The purified MBP-His6-TRX z fusion protein was then subjected to a protease digest using factor Xa (New England Biolabs) to cleave off the maltose binding protein. Cleaved recombinant TRX z was subsequently further purified using nickel-nitriloacetic acid agarose (Qiagen). Thioredoxin activity was assessed using the insulin reduction assay as described (CITATION). The incubation mixture contained 2 or 5 μM His6-tagged TRX z protein lacking the predicted chloroplast targeting peptide. Recombinant oxidized E. coli TRX (Promega) served as a positive control. Fructokinase activity was determined using a coupled optic enzymatic assay as detailed by CITATION. To investigate the influence of reduction state on enzyme activity, the recombinant proteins were incubated in the presence of 50 mM DTT, 4 μM recombinant TRX z, or a combination of 10 mM DTT and 4 μM TRX z for 60 min at room temperature prior to the activity measurement. The reaction was started by the addition of 50 mM fructose. VIGS in N. benthamiana was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). In brief, fragments of TRX z, FLN1, and FLN2 were amplified by PCR and cloned into pTRV2-Gateway (CITATION) using the Gateway recombination system (Invitrogen). Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The resulting plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1. A lower leaf of a 4-week-old N. benthamiana plant (four-leaf stage) was coinfiltrated with a mixture of Agrobacteria carrying either pTRV1, a binary vector expressing TRV subgenomic RNA1 under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, or pTRV2 expressing TRV subgenomic RNA2 and containing the target sequence as described (CITATION). Silenced plants were analyzed 14 d after infiltration. Total RNA was isolated from leaf material as described (CITATION) and then treated with RNase-free DNase (Fermentas) to degrade any remaining DNA. First-strand cDNA synthesis was performed from 2 μg of total RNA using a random hexamer using Revert-Aid reverse transcriptase (Fermentas). For RT-PCR, cDNAs were amplified using Taq polymerase (New England Biolabs) and gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The number of amplification cycles was reduced from 35 to 25 to evaluate and quantify any differences among transcript levels before the levels reached saturation. PCR products were separated on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel containing ethidium bromide and visualized by UV light. For quantitative RT-PCR, the cDNAs were amplified using Brilliant II SYBR Green QPCR Mastermix (Stratagene) in an MX3000P real-time PCR instrument (Stratagene). PCR was optimized, and reactions were performed in triplicate. The transcript level was standardized based on cDNA amplification of 18S rRNA as a reference. Relative gene expression data were generated using the wild type in case of Arabidopsis or the TRV:GFPsil in case of N. benthamiana plants as a calibrator. Fold induction values of target genes were calculated with the ΔΔCP equation according to CITATION. Statistical analysis was performed using Student's t test. Primers used for RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR, respectively, are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Yeast two-hybrid techniques were performed according to the yeast protocols handbook and the Matchmaker GAL4 Two-hybrid System 3 manual (both Clontech) using the yeast reporter strains AH109 and Y187. A fragment of the TRX z coding region comprising amino acids 81 to 183 was amplified by PCR using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table 1 online and inserted via EcoRI and SalI into the pGBT-9 vector generating a fusion between the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD). The yeast strain Y187 carrying the BD-TRX z construct was mated with AH109 cells pretransformed with either a two-hybrid library from Arabidopsis inflorescence (CITATION; kindly provided by the ABRC) or with a library derived from Arabidopsis rosette leaves (Vertis Biotechnology). Diploid cells were selected on medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His supplemented with 4 mM 3-aminotriazole. Cells growing on selective medium were further tested for activity of the lacZ reporter gene using filter lift assays. Library plasmids from his3/lacZ positive clones were isolated from yeast cells and transformed into E. coli before sequencing of the cDNA inserts. Direct interaction of two proteins was investigated by cotransformation of the respective plasmids in the yeast strain AH109, followed by selection of transformants on medium lacking Leu and Trp at 30°C for 3 d and subsequent transfer to medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His for growth selection and lacZ activity testing of interacting clones. Quantitative LacZ measurements were performed in yeast strain Y190 using o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside (ONPG) as a substrate. One unit of β-galactosidase was defined as the amount that hydrolyzes 1 μmol ONPG to o-nitrophenol and d-galactose per min per cell. Arabidopsis Col-0 wild-type and trx z plants from sucrose-supplemented plates were harvested during growth in the light and after 1 h in darkness. Individual pools of one to five plantlets were ground to fine powder under liquid nitrogen. The conditions for the trichloroacetic acid/diethyl ether protein extraction SDS-PAGE are as specified before (CITATION), and for nonreducing protein electrophoresis, DTT was omitted from the sample buffer. A peptide antibody against FLN2 was produced in rabbit using the peptide C-ITEKEYRTSKPYDE for immunization. The total IgG fraction was purified from the serum and used as primary antibody (dilution 1:1000) in further analyses. Immunoblotting was performed on nitrocellulose membrane (GE Healthcare) according to standard protocols. The signal was detected using the horseradish peroxidase in combination with the ECl plus kit (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The polyacrylamide gels were stained using Coomasie Brilliant Blue G 250 and destained in water as previously described (CITATION). Site directed mutagenesis of TRX z and FLN constructs was performed using the Quick-change site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) employing primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. All base changes were verified by sequencing. The genomes of Oryza sativa ssp japonica (at the National Center for Biotechnology Information), Physcomitrella patens ssp patens v1.1, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (v.3.1), Acaryochloris marina, Anabaena variabilis, Nostoc sp PCC 7120, and Synechocystis sp PCC 6803 (http://genome.jgi-psf.org/) were searched for genes encoding fructokinase-like proteins with similarity to the pfkB carbohydrate kinase family of Arabidopsis using the BLASTP algorithm (CITATION). The selected sequences were supplemented with experimentally proven fructokinases from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). The At1g50320 (TRX x) protein sequence was used to search the TAIR database (www.Arabidopsis.org) for other members of the thioredoxin family. The protein sequences were aligned using Muscle v3.7 (CITATION) using the default settings. Any regions of the gene models that appeared to contain nonconserved insertions or deletions were manually checked for the presence of incorrectly annotated intron/exon splice sites and the gene models corrected if necessary. The corrected protein sequence alignments were manually edited using GeneDoc (CITATION). The resulting alignments are available as Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 2 online. The phylogenetic analyses were performed using MEGA4 (CITATION). The evolutionary history was inferred using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION). The percentage of replicate trees in which the associated taxa clustered together in the bootstrap test (1000 replicates) is shown next to each branch (CITATION). The tree is drawn to scale, with branch lengths representing the evolutionary distance units used to infer the phylogenetic tree. The evolutionary distances were computed using the JTT matrix-based method (CITATION) and show the number of amino acid substitutions per site. All positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated from the data set, and the optimal (bootstrap consensus) trees are shown. If not otherwise stated, sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At3g06730 (At TRX z), At1g50320 (At TRX x) At3g54090 (At FLN1), At1g69200 (At FLN2), AY323226.1 (Sl FRK3), HM211399 (Nb FLN1), HM211400 (Nb FLN2), CN746716.1 (Nb TRX f1), and CN747967.1 (Nb TRX x). Accession numbers of proteins used for sequence alignments can be found in the legend to the respective figure. B.A., W.L., and F.B. designed research. U.H., M.W., B.A., E.G., S.Ü., M.M., K.P., W.L., and F.B. performed the experiments. U.H., M.W., B.A., W.L., and F.B. analyzed the data. B.A. and F.B. wrote the article. The following materials are available in the online version of the article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of the Amino Acid Sequences of TRX z Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Molecular Analysis of the trx z Arabidopsis T-DNA Insertion Mutant Complemented with a CaMV 35S:TRX z Expression Construct. Supplemental Figure 3. FLN1 (At3g54090) and FLN2 (At1g69200) Contain a Conserved Fructokinase Domain. Supplemental Figure 4. Control Experiments for BiFC Assays. Supplemental Figure 5. Alignment of the Amino Acid Sequences of FLN1 and FLN2 Proteins. Supplemental Figure 6. Fructokinase Activity of rRecombinant MBP-FLN1, MBP-FLN2, and MBP-FRK3. Supplemental Figure 7. Phylogenetic Tree of Selected Members of the pfkB Carbohydrate Kinase Family. Supplemental Figure 8. Alignment of the Amino Acid Sequences of Experimentally Proven Fructokinases from Plants. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. Thioredoxin Protein Alignment Used to Construct the Phylogenetic Tree in Figure 1C. Supplemental Data Set 2. Alignment of pfkb Carbohydrate Kinase Proteins Used to Generate the Phylogenetic Tree Featured in Supplemental Figure 7.
