!~ABS~! The sulfate ion (SO42−) is transported into plant root cells by SO42− transporters and then mostly reduced to sulfide (S2−). The S2− is then bonded to O-acetylserine through the activity of cysteine synthase (O-acetylserine (thiol)lyase or OASTL) to form cysteine, the first organic molecule of the SO42− assimilation pathway. Here, we show that a root plasma membrane SO42− transporter of Arabidopsis, SULTR1;2, physically interacts with OASTL. The interaction was initially demonstrated using a yeast two-hybrid system and corroborated by both in vivo and in vitro binding assays. The domain of SULTR1;2 shown to be important for association with OASTL is called the STAS domain. This domain is at the C terminus of the transporter and extends from the plasma membrane into the cytoplasm. The functional relevance of the OASTL-STAS interaction was investigated using yeast mutant cells devoid of endogenous SO42− uptake activity but co-expressing SULTR1;2 and OASTL. The analysis of SO42− transport in these cells suggests that the binding of OASTL to the STAS domain in this heterologous system negatively impacts transporter activity. In contrast, the activity of purified OASTL measured in vitro was enhanced by co-incubation with the STAS domain of SULTR1;2 but not with the analogous domain of the SO42− transporter isoform SULTR1;1, even though the SULTR1;1 STAS peptide also interacts with OASTL based on the yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro binding assays. These observations suggest a regulatory model in which interactions between SULTR1;2 and OASTL coordinate internalization of SO42− with the energetic/metabolic state of plant root cells. 
!~RES~! To elucidate interactions of the STAS domain of SO42− transporters with other proteins in the cell, we initially focused our studies on the SULTR1;2 STAS domain in a yeast two-hybrid analysis. We first generated a bait construct with the LexA DNA binding domain followed by a 10-alanine spacer sequence that was fused to the L-STAS domain of SULTR1;2. This bait construct was used to screen a cDNA library constructed from mRNA isolated from whole A. thaliana seedlings. One cDNA identified in the screen encoded a cytoplasmic isoform of OASTL (At4g14880, OASA1 (CITATION), cytACS1 (CITATION), or Atcys-3A (CITATION)) with a 110-amino acid deletion at its N terminus; this truncated protein is designated OASTL111A because the amino acid at position 111 (the first amino acid of the truncated protein) is an alanine. The identical cDNA encoding the truncated OASTL was also generated from reverse transcription of OASTL mRNA from A. thaliana ecotype Col-0; this cDNA was used in the experiments described below. Fig. 1 shows interactions between the SULTR1;2 STAS domain, with and without the L sequence (1;2LSTAS and 1;2STAS), and full-length and various truncated forms of OASTL, tested in the yeast two-hybrid system. The 1;2LSTAS interacts with OASTL39M, -111A, and -144M but not with -1M (full-length OASTL) based on both β-galactosidase activity and leucine auxotrophy assays (Fig. 1A). A negative result for the interaction between OASTL1M and 1;2LSTAS is likely a consequence of constraints of the system with respect to structure and/or regulation in the heterologous system; additional in vitro and in vivo binding assays, shown below, yield positive results with full-length OASTL. The 1;2STAS domain without the L region also interacts with OASTL111A, but this interaction is somewhat weaker than that of 1;2LSTAS. Furthermore, the STAS but not the LSTAS of SULTR1;1 interacts weakly with OASTL111A; this interaction is only clearly detected by the sensitive leucine auxotrophy assay.  [[FIGURE]] To identify the region of OASTL to which 1;2LSTAS binds, we generated a number of OASTL constructs encoding polypeptides truncated to varying extents. As shown in Fig. 1A, removing β1-β2 (the first 38 amino acids) from the OASTL (OASTL39M in Fig. 1) is enough to detect interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system. Additional truncations of OASTL at the N terminus (144M, 210S, and 175G; the latter two are not shown) did not eliminate the interaction with 1;2LSTAS, whereas an N-terminal truncation to 233S yielded a significantly weaker signal (Fig. 1B). Furthermore, although a C-terminal truncation to 287A (144M-287A) did not reduce the signal strength, deletion of the C terminus to 233S (39M-233S) caused a marked decrease in the signal (Fig. 1B). These results suggest that OASTL interacts with the STAS domain in the region around amino acid 233S, which is located in a loop between β8 and β9 (CITATION).  The interaction between STAS domains and OASTL was further tested by an in vitro binding assay using recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. The DNA encoding the STAS domain of SULTR1;2 and SULTR1;1, with or without the L region, was fused to the C terminus of the MBP. The resulting constructs were expressed in E. coli to generate fusion proteins MBP-1;2LSTAS, MBP-1;2STAS, MBP-1;1LSTAS, and MBP-1;1STAS. OASTL was also expressed in E. coli but as the His6-tagged protein OASTL-His6. To monitor interactions in vitro, recombinant OASTL-His6 was incubated with various MBP-STAS fusion proteins, and the MBP-STAS was then purified using an amylose resin; OASTL-His6 that co-purified with MBP-STAS was detected immunologically. Binding of OASTL to MBP-1;2STAS was most readily detected when OAS was included in the binding assay (Fig. 2A). The STAS domain of SULTR1;2 with the L region (MBP-1;2LSTAS) also bound OASTL in the presence of OAS, whereas the binding of OASTL to the STAS or LSTAS of SULTR1;1 was barely detectable (Fig. 2B). These results are congruent with those of the yeast two-hybrid assays (Fig. 1A). Neither 1 mm cysteine nor various SO42− concentrations had a significant effect on OASTL-1;2STAS interaction (supplemental Fig. 1), although S2− did cause a reduction in this interaction (data not shown), probably because, over the course of the assay, the added S2− facilitates OASTL activity and the rapid consumption of OAS in the synthesis of cysteine. The His6-OASTL protein also pulled down full-length SULTR1;2–4MYC expressed in N. benthamiana (tobacco) epidermal cells (Fig. 2C). The two fusion proteins were co-incubated, and the His6-OASTL was captured on a Ni-NTA resin, which was then subjected to three stringent washes. The bound His6-OASTL (Fig. 2C, lane B) was liberated along with a significant amount of SULTR1;2–4MYC (Fig. 2C, compare lanes W and B, left panel). No SULTR1;2–4MYC bound to the column in the absence of His6-OASTL (Fig. 2C, see lanes W and B, right panel).  [[FIGURE]] Interactions between SULTR1;2 and OASTL were analyzed in vivo using the plant BiFC system (CITATION). The N- or C-terminal halves of the fluorescent protein (nFP and cFP, respectively) were fused to full-length SULTR1;2, SULTR1;2 deleted for the STAS domain (SULTR1;2ΔSTAS), or full-length OASTL. Combinations of these proteins were expressed transiently in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. Fig. 3 shows the images observed by confocal microscopy 5 days after co-inoculation of the plant leaf cells with a combination of A. tumefaciens separately carrying genes for the indicated proteins. The fluorescence pseudo-colored in red in the images is from chlorophyll, and the green fluorescence results from close proximity of nFP and cFP that occurs when the polypeptides fused to nFP and cFP interact. As shown, SULTR1;2 proteins interact with each other (Fig. 3A), and this interaction does not depend on the STAS domain (Fig. 3E). Another SLC26A family protein, Prestin, also forms dimers/oligomers (CITATION). Homodimerization of OASTL polypeptides, as established previously (CITATION), is also observed (Fig. 3C). Furthermore, the in vivo assay shows a clear interaction between OASTL-cFP and nFP-SULTR1;2 (Fig. 3B), which is absolutely dependent on the SULTR1;2 STAS domain; removal of the STAS domain abolishes this interaction (Fig. 3D), although the SULTR1;2ΔSTAS is still synthesized, accumulates, and shows homodimerization in the BiFC system (Fig. 3E).  [[FIGURE]] To gain insights into the functional relevance of the OASTL-SULTR1;2 interaction, we evaluated the effects of the interaction on SO42− transport activity in S. cerevisiae mutant cells null for the endogenous SO42− transporters (CITATION). Initial experiments demonstrated that co-expression of SULTR1;2 with OASTL in cells grown in high (1 mm) or low (10 μm) SO42− concentrations did not significantly alter SULTR1;2 protein levels (Fig. 4A). However, yeast cells co-expressing OASTL with SULTR1;2 show a statistically significant reduction in the SO42− uptake rate compared with cells only expressing SULTR1;2 (Fig. 4B), suggesting that the interaction of OASTL with SULTR1;2 negatively impacts transporter activity. This decrease in activity, which was an average of more than five independent experiments, using freshly transformed cells for each of these experiments, is more pronounced in cells maintained in high relative to low SO42− medium (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the negative effect of OASTL on SO42− transport activity requires the catalytic activity of the enzyme, OASTL with a K46A substitution, which eliminates cysteine synthase activity (CITATION), was co-expressed with SULTR1;2 in yeast cells; once again five separate experiments were performed. Results with the mutated OASTL were similar to those obtained with the unaltered protein (Fig. 4B). Furthermore, the lesion did not cause a significant change in the ratio of SULTR1;2 to PMA1 in the plasma membranes of the transformed lines (Fig. 4A) or disrupt interactions between SULTR1;2 LSTAS and OASTL (supplemental Fig. 2), suggesting that there is a direct effect of OASTL-SULTR1;2 interaction on SO42− transport activity that is independent of OASTL catalytic activity.  Finally, OASTL with an H221A lesion was also tested for its effect on SULTR1;2 activity. The H221A mutation in OASTL was previously shown to inhibit its ability to interact with serine acetyltransferase (SAT) (CITATION). However, our results show that there is no significant alteration in the OASTL(H221A)-LSTAS interaction, based on the yeast two-hybrid analysis (supplemental Fig. 2A), and that this interaction still elicits a reduction in SULTR1;2 activity (Fig. 4B).  We also developed an in vitro assay to evaluate the effect of 1;2(L)STAS-OASTL interaction on OASTL activity. Purified OASTL-His6 was co-incubated with no protein partners in 1× phosphate-buffered saline (mock), MBP, MBP-1;2STAS, MBP-1;2LSTAS, MBP-1:1STAS, or MBP-1;1LSTAS at 22 °C for 30 min prior to determining cysteine synthase activity. The results suggest that 1;2STAS, but not 1;1STAS, enhances OASTL activity (Fig. 5A). Similar results were obtained with three independently purified protein preparations. Because the efficiency of in vitro binding is not high (Fig. 2, A–C) and protein interaction is probably only transient, an equimolar concentration of 1;2STAS and OASTL does not result in significant OASTL activation. However, OASTL activity increased by a factor of 2.0 when a 12-fold molar excess of the STAS domain was used in the assay. The LSTAS domains of both SULTR1;2 and SULTR1;1 were also tested, and surprisingly neither had a significant effect (Fig. 5). When the L region of the LSTAS polypeptide is connected to MBP rather than to the catalytic domain of the transporter, it may be more mobile (attachment to the catalytic domain may restrict mobility in specific ways), which could markedly affect interactions with partner proteins. More information is required to develop a better understanding of this aspect of the work.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae used in this study were EGY48 (MATα, his3, trp1, ura3, 6LexAop::LEU2) for the yeast two-hybrid screen (CITATION) and CP154-7B (MATα, ade2, his3, leu2, trp1, ura3, sul1::LEU2, sul2::URA3), which is null for both Sul1 and Sul2, the endogenous genes encoding SO42− transporters (CITATION). Yeast cells were transformed using the lithium acetate method (CITATION).  We used gene fragments to synthesize the SULTR1;2 STAS domain, with or without the linker region (CITATION); these peptide domains were designated 1;2LSTAS (Linker plus STAS, from Ser-490 to Val-653, the last amino acid in the protein) or 1;2STAS (STAS without Linker, from Ile-520 to Val-653). A 10-alanine adaptor was encoded by the 5′ end of the forward primer to separate the STAS and LSTAS from fusion partner polypeptides. The amplified product was ligated into bait and prey vectors, pEG202 and pJG4-5, respectively. Analogous constructs were prepared using sequences encoding the corresponding LSTAS and STAS regions of SULTR1;1. OASTL gene fragments of various lengths were amplified and cloned into the pJG4-5 prey vector. Appropriate combinations of bait and prey constructs were transformed into EGY48 harboring a LacZ reporter plasmid (pSH18-34), and S. cerevisiae transformants were selected on medium lacking uracil, histidine, and tryptophan. Protein expression from both the bait and prey constructs was confirmed by Western blot analysis using LexA antibodies (Invitrogen) to detect expression from the bait constructs and hemagglutinin antibodies (Roche Applied Science) to detect expression from the prey constructs. β-Galactosidase assays were performed according to standard procedures. All of the oligonucleotides used as primers in this study are listed in supplemental Table 1. The LSTAS domain of SULTR1;2 in the bait vector (pEG202) was used to screen for interacting proteins encoded by an A. thaliana cDNA library inserted into the prey vector (pJG4-5).  The OASTL coding region was cloned into pET28a (Novagen, Gibbstown, NJ) to generate a C-terminally His6-tagged OASTL protein (OASTL-His6) or N-terminally His6-tagged protein (His6-OASTL). The SULTR1;2 or SULTR1;1 STAS domains, with or without the L regions, were cloned into the pMalc2× vector (PerkinElmer Life Sciences), generating MBP-STAS or MBP-LSTAS. Recombinant proteins were overexpressed in BL21(DE3)pLysS and purified using Ni-NTA (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) or amylose resin (PerkinElmer Life Sciences). Two mutations (K46A and H221A) were separately introduced into the OASTL cDNA using PCR, and the final plasmid constructs were prepared in a similar way as described for the construct with the unaltered OASTL coding region.  To test in vitro binding of SULTR1;2-4MYC to His6-OASTL, the SULTR1;2 cDNA was cloned into pGWB16 (CITATION), and the resulting plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens. A. tumefaciens carrying this plasmid was inoculated into cells on the abaxial side of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves as described previously (CITATION). Five days after the inoculation, leaves were harvested by emersion and fragmentation in liquid nitrogen and homogenized into a powder in ice-cold buffer (250 mm sucrose, 100 mm HEPES/KOH (pH 7.5), 15 mm EGTA, 5% glycerol, 0.5% polyvinylpyrrolidone, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). After removing cell debris by centrifugation at 1,600 × g for 10 min and filtration through Miracloth, the microsomal fraction was collected by centrifuging the suspension for 1 h at 10,000 × g and resuspending the pellet in the interaction buffer (50 mm NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4, 100 mm NaCl, 5% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, and 10 mm imidazole). After solubilizing the microsomal fraction for 1 h on ice, cell debris was precipitated by centrifugation for 20 min at 20,000 × g.  Potential binding proteins were mixed in a 1:1 ratio and incubated in 1× phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.4) for 1 h at 22 °C. The amylose resin was added to bind the MBP-fused proteins along with interacting proteins. To test in vitro binding of SULTR1;2–4MYC to His6-OASTL, a microsomal fraction containing overexpressed SULTR1;2–4MYC was prepared as described above. His6-OASTL was added and incubated at 4 °C for 2 h with continuous rotation. Ni-NTA was added to bind His6-fused proteins, which would also capture interacting proteins.  cDNAs were cloned in BiFC vectors using gateway technology (CITATION). A. tumefaciens gv3101 carrying a plasmid encoding the p19 protein (CITATION) expressing the binding pairs were co-inoculated into the apoplastic space surrounding epidermal cells of N. benthamiana. Fluorescence was monitored 5 days after inoculation by confocal microscopy. A piece of infected leaf was mounted onto slides, and fluorescence was imaged using a Nikon TMD200 inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with a Nikon 60 × 1.2-numerical aperture, a water immersion objective, and a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 confocal head. All images are projection stacks of 25 confocal sections (0.5 μm each).  S. cerevisiae CP154-7B cells harboring plasmids expressing SULTR1;2-HA (CITATION) and OASTL-FLAG (or an empty vector) were used to determine SO42− uptake rates as described previously (CITATION), with a minor modification. Cells were grown in SD medium containing 500 μm SO42− without Met, His, or Trp (supplemented with 2% glucose, 1.3 mm OAS, and 4 mm Ser) to A600 = 0.2. The cells were then pelleted by centrifugation (5 min at 1300 × g) and resuspended in either SO42−-rich medium containing 1 mm SO42− or SO42−-poor medium containing 10 μm SO42−. After a 2.5-h incubation in fresh medium, the cells were harvested and washed in a buffer containing 15 mm NH4Cl, 6.6 mm KH2PO4, 0.5 mm K2HPO4, 1.7 mm NaCl, 0.7 mm CaCl2, 2 mm MgCl2 (pH 5.8). Cells were kept on ice from the time of harvest to the time of assay. The cell suspension was supplemented with 2% glucose (final concentration) and maintained at 30 °C for 4 min prior to the initiation of the SO42− uptake assay, as described previously (CITATION). Assays were performed independently at least five times (five biological replicates) for each value and CP154-7B cells were freshly transformed with the appropriate combination of plasmid DNAs every time uptake assays were performed; independently transformed cell lines were also tested at least five times for all the data shown in Fig. 4B.  OASTL-FLAG was expressed from a PMA1 promoter in a plasmid derived from pJG4-5 (PerkinElmer Life Sciences). The PMA1 promoter, OASTL-FLAG coding sequence, and ADH1 terminator were introduced into pJG4-5 at SacI-BamHI, BamHI-SalI, and SalI-NotI restriction sites, respectively.  The enzymatic activity of OASTL-His6 was assayed as described previously (CITATION), based on established protocols (CITATION, CITATION). OASTL-His6 was added to a final concentration of 1 ng/μl to 100 mm MOPSO buffer (pH 7.0), 10 mm dithiothreitol. The MBP-STAS polypeptide was added at a 1-, 7-, and 12-fold molar concentration relative to that of OASTL. This reaction mixture (final vol. 250 μl) was incubated at 22 °C for 30 min with gentle rotation, followed by the addition of 250 μl of a solution containing 100 mm MOPSO (pH 7.0), 1 mm Na2S, and 10 mm OAS to initiate the OASTL reaction; 100-μl samples were withdrawn from the reaction after 10 s and 6 and 12 min and mixed with 20 μl of ice-cold 50% trichloroacetic acid. The acidified reaction mixture was maintained on ice for at least 10 min, and precipitated proteins were pelleted by microcentrifugation at maximal speed. 100 μl of the supernatant was added to 100 μl of 2.5% ninhydrin solution, and the mixture was heated at 95 °C for 5 min. After a brief period of cooling on ice, 200 μl of ethanol was added to the solution, and the A562 was determined. The specific activity of OASTL-His6 protein in the absence of MBP-STAS (the mock treatment) was 8.2 ± 3.0 μmol/min/mg (micromoles of cysteine molecules synthesized per min by 1 mg of OASTL-His6 protein, n = 12) in a reaction mixture containing 1 mm Na2S and 10 mm OAS. 
