!~ABS~! A central question in cell biology is how the identity of organelles is established and maintained. Here, we report on GOLD36, an EMS mutant identified through a screen for partial displacement of the Golgi marker, ST-GFP, to other organelles. GOLD36 showed partial distribution of ST-GFP into a modified endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network, which formed bulges and large skein-like structures entangling Golgi stacks. GOLD36 showed defects in ER protein export as evidenced by our observations that, besides the partial retention of Golgi markers in the ER, the trafficking of a soluble bulk-flow marker to the cell surface was also compromised. Using a combination of classical mapping and next-generation DNA sequencing approaches, we linked the mutant phenotype to a missense mutation of a proline residue in position 80 to a leucine residue in a small endomembrane protein encoded by the gold36 locus (At1g54030). Subcellular localization analyses indicated that GOLD36 is a vacuolar protein and that its mutated form is retained in the ER. Interestingly also, a gold36 knock-out mutant mirrored the GOLD36 subcellular phenotype. These data indicate that GOLD36 is a protein destined to post-ER compartments and suggest that its export from the ER is a requirement to ensure steady-state maintenance of the organelle’s organization and functional activity in relation to other secretory compartments. We speculate that GOLD36 may be a factor that is necessary for ER integrity because of its ability to limit deleterious effects of other secretory proteins on the ER.
!~RES~! In a microscope-based screen of cotyledons of 1-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings for altered subcellular distribution of ST-GFP (Figure 1a1), a well-established trans-Golgi membrane marker (CITATION), we isolated GOLD36, a mutant with an ST-GFP signal distributed to the Golgi and an underlying network (Figure 1a2). The network defined unusual structures in epidermal cells (Figure 1a2,b); compare Movie S1a and Movie S1b). Generally, in the mid to lower sections of each cell we found one large globular structure (≤10 μm) that contained Golgi stacks (Figure 1a2,b) and that was distinguishable from the nucleus (Figure S1), and also smaller circular structures at the cell’s periphery (Figure 1a2,b); Movie S1b). Both types of structures were highly motile (Figure 1b; Movie S2). [[FIGURE]] As evidenced by treatment with the general plant endomembrane dye DiOC6 (CITATION; CITATION), the phenotype was present also in segregating plants of the F2 mapping population from crosses of the GOLD36 mutant with Arabidopsis thaliana Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype that did not express ST-GFP, thereby excluding the possibility that the phenotype was due to over-expression of the transgene (Figure S2). Analyses of T1 GOLD36 cotyledon epidermal cells stably expressing G-yk, a cis-Golgi marker (CITATION), showed that the fluorescence pattern of ST-GFP overlapped that of G-yk (Figure 2), indicating an abnormal distribution of another Golgi marker of earlier cisternae than the trans-Golgi in GOLD36 and excluding the possibility that the partial redistribution of a Golgi marker was specific to ST-GFP and trans-Golgi proteins. [[FIGURE]] Because the membranous network highlighted by the Golgi markers in the GOLD36 mutant background resembled that of the ER (Figures 1 and 2), we analyzed T1 GOLD36 cotyledons expressing the ER lumenal marker, ER-yk (CITATION). Confocal microscope analyses confirmed that the network was indeed ER (Figure 3) and, thus, that in the GOLD36 mutant the Golgi markers are partially redistributed to this organelle. [[FIGURE]] The imaging of the smaller circular GOLD36 structures indicated that they were part of the ER network (Figures 1–3; Movies S1 and S2); we aimed to test whether the larger globular structures were in continuity with the ER or formed an isolated compartment. To this end, we photobleached the ER-yk fluorescence in the large globular structure and followed its recovery over time. As shown in Figure 4, ER-yk photobleaching was followed by fluorescence recovery albeit to a much slower recovery rate than previously described for lumenal ER GFP (CITATION), indicating not only that the large globular structures did not form a separate compartment from the general ER, but also suggesting that the defects in ER organization may limit diffusion of proteins in this organelle. The obvious defects in ER morphology raised the question whether the ER export activities of this organelle would also be compromised. [[FIGURE]] The evidence that two Golgi markers were partially distributed to the GOLD36 ER (Figures 1 and 2) suggested defects in ER protein export. To test this possibility, we aimed to establish the distribution of a bulk-flow reporter such as a soluble marker destined to the apoplast [sporamin signal sequence-mRFP fusion, secRFP (CITATION)]. In Col-0, the marker reached its destination (Figure 5a1,b1), as expected (CITATION). However, analyses of cotyledon epidermal cells of T1 GOLD36 seedlings expressing secRFP showed partial retention of the marker in the ER network (Figure 5a2,b2), in clear contrast with the control. Interestingly, we also found that in GOLD36, secRFP was retained within the large globular structure and showed evident signal within the smaller circular structures at the cell’s periphery (Figure 5a2,b2). Combined with the evidence of a redistribution of Golgi markers in the ER (Figures 1 and 2), partial retention of secRFP in the ER supports our hypothesis that the GOLD36 mutant has defects in ER protein export. [[FIGURE]] We next analyzed GOLD36 at an ultrastructural level. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that the large structures observed in the cotyledon epidermal cells of GOLD36 seedlings were in fact parallel aggregations of large inclusions inside the lumen of the ER (Figure 6a,b). Interestingly, these structures appeared to be semi-crystalline in nature, with longitudinal striations (Figure 6c) and were considerably thinner (50–300 nm in diameter) than the typical ER-located fusiform bodies (300–1200 nm in diameter; Figure 6e) reported previously in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), and on occasion they showed a branching pattern (Figure 6c). The typical fusiform bodies with less discernable internal structure were also found in the ER outside the aberrant globular structures (Figure 6d). There were no obvious differences in the organization of other organelles in these cells. [[FIGURE]] We believe that GOLD36 represents a mutant with clear ER morphological and functional defects. Therefore, we next sought to identify the mutation responsible for the GOLD36 phenotype. To generate a mapping population, we crossed the GOLD36 mutant with Ler. The genomic DNA of 57 F2 plants exhibiting the recessive phenotype was analyzed and a candidate region with the mutation was rough mapped between F11F12 and F14J16 BAC clones on chromosome 1 at a 2.2-Mbp intervals. To identify the point mutation, we sequenced the genomic DNA of the GOLD36 mutant by Illumina Genome Analyzer II (Solexa). Within the candidate region, 147 homozygous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified, of which 18 were found within transcription units. Seven of these SNPs were found within coding regions, but only four were predicted to be non-silent mutations (Table S1). Among these, only one SNP resulted in a typical G/C-to-A/T EMS transition (CITATION), which caused a CCT→CTT codon change in the At1g54030 locus (herein named gold36) and resulted in the missense mutation of a proline residue in position 80 into a leucine residue (P80L) at transcriptional level (Figure 7a). To test whether such mutation was indeed responsible for the observed phenotype, we analyzed T1 GOLD36 seedlings stably expressing the cDNA of either gold36 or gold36P80L under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter using a confocal microscope. We found that the GOLD36 phenotype was complemented by the wild-type cDNA but not by the cDNA bearing the mutation (Figure 7b,c), indicating that the P80L missense mutation was indeed responsible for the phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Because we were working with a missense mutant, we aimed to compare the phenotype with that of a knock-down/out mutant. This experiment was important to distinguish whether the ER integrity defects of the GOLD36 mutant were linked to the presence of the GOLD36 mutant protein or to gold36 reduced/absent transcript levels. To do so, we isolated a T-DNA Col-0 insertion line (SALK_030621) in the first exon from the ABRC stock center (gold36–1;Figure 7a; Figure S3a). RT-PCR of homozygous lines for the T-DNA insertion did not show presence of transcript compared to controls (Col-0, non-mutagenized ST-GFP, and GOLD36 backgrounds) (Figure 8a), indicating that gold36–1 is most likely a knock-out. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the GOLD36 phenotype was linked to an aberrant protein product (i.e. GOLD36P80L) or abnormal gold36 transcript levels, we aimed to compare the gold36–1 subcellular phenotype with that of GOLD36. To this end, we transformed gold36–1 with ST-GFP. We found that the distribution of ST-GFP in transformed gold36–1 T1 cotyledons clearly phenocopied that of GOLD36, in that ST-GFP was partially redistributed to the ER, as well as to globular and circular structures (compare Figures 1 and 8b). In addition, complemented lines (gold36–1 transformed with 35S::gold36) did not have such structures (Figure S3b). Together, these data confirm our forward genetics analyses showing that the GOLD36 phenotype was linked to the gold36 locus. Importantly also, the evidence that a knock-out mutant phenocopied GOLD36 suggested not only that GOLD36P80L is a non-functional protein, but also indicated that the ER integrity defects of the GOLD36 mutant are not linked to the presence of the aberrant protein gold36 product in the ER but rather to the absence of intact gold36 transcript. Analyses of the primary sequence of GOLD36 indicate that the protein contains 417 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of approximately 46 kD. GOLD36 is annotated as MVP1 (CITATION) and as a member of the superfamily of plant GDSL-like lipases; however, unlike all the other members, it does not contain the flexible active site serine in the canonical GDSL motif located near the N-terminus that is essential for lipase activity in this family (CITATION). In accordance with this finding, absence of lipase activity of GOLD36/MVP1 has been confirmed recently (CITATION). SignalP 3.0 prediction server (CITATION) indicates the presence of an N-terminal signal sequence for insertion in the ER. The protein sequence does not have obvious retention signals, suggesting that it may be exported from the ER to distal compartments such as the vacuole and the apoplast. To investigate this possibility, we aimed to examine GOLD36 localization using a stable transformation system. We first transformed GOLD36 plants with a GOLD36 fusion to a monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP; 35S::gold36-mRFP). mRFP is more resistant to low pH than GFP (CITATION); therefore, it is better suited as a marker for acidic compartments such as the apoplast or the vacuole than GFP. Confocal analyses showed that the GOLD36-mRFP was clearly localized in the vacuole (Figure 9a). GOLD36-mRFP complemented the GOLD36 phenotype (Figure 9a), indicating that the protein is a functional fusion; therefore, its distribution must at least partially overlap with that of the endogenous GOLD36. Because the mRFP signal was confined to the cell body rather than in the apoplastic space in plasmolyzed GOLD36 cotyledonal epidermal cells expressing GOLD36-mRFP, we concluded that GOLD36-mRFP is not secreted to the apoplast (Figure S4). Further evidence that GOLD36 is directed to the vacuole is provided in Figure S5. [[FIGURE]] We have also gathered evidence that GOLD36-mRFP may be localized in the ER in transient expression assays (Figures S6 and S7 and Movie S3). Finally, we aimed to compare the fluorescence of GOLD36-mRFP with that of the GOLD36P80L mutant. Analyses of T1 GOLD36 transformants expressing GOLD36P80L-mRFP showed that, in clear contrast to the wild-type protein, the mutant protein fusion was retained in the ER network where it accumulated in bright, large structures (Figure 9b). As expected from experiments using the untagged GOLD36 (Figure 7), GOLD36P80L-mRFP did not complement the GOLD36 phenotype (Figure 9b).
!~MM~! The fluorescent proteins used in this study were based on fusions with mGFP5 (CITATION), EYFP (Clontech, California, http://www.clontech.com), and monomeric RFP (CITATION). Wild-type and mutant gold36 cDNA were amplified from cDNA of wild-type Col-0 and GOLD36 plants, respectively. The cDNA was subcloned in the binary vector pFGC5941 and expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. mRFP fusions of wild-type and mutant GOLD36 were generated by overlapping PCR of cDNA sequences (i.e. gold36 cDNAs and mRFP) followed by subcloning in pFGC5941. Constructs were confirmed by sequencing. Primer sequences used in this work are listed in Table S2. RNA extraction was performed using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). Reverse transcription experiments were performed using the Superscript III First Strand Synthesis Kit (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). PCR experiments were performed in standard conditions and were carried out using 0.2 mm dNTPs, 0.2 μm primers, and 1 unit of Taq polymerase (Promega, http://www.promega.com). We used wild-type plants of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotypes Columbia and Landsberg erecta), a transgenic Arabidopsis line (ecotype Col-0) expressing ST-GFP. We also used the Arabidopsis mutant gold36–1 from the ABRC consortium. With the exception of the plants used for the experiment in Figures S6 and S7, plants used in this work were all stable transformants obtained with a floral dip method (CITATION), and subsequent selection on MS medium supplemented with Gamborg’s B5 vitamins, 1% (w/v) sucrose, the appropriate antibiotics, and 0.8% (w/v) agar. Seeds were surface-sterilized and were grown at 21°C under 16 h light/8 h dark conditions. Cotyledons used in this work were harvested from 7-day-old seedlings. For antibiotic selection, seeds were stratified on selective medium (see above) for 5 days, then the selected seedlings were transferred to MS medium without antibiotics for 2 days prior to analysis. Selective antibiotics were glufosinate ammonium salt (BASTA; final concentration 20 μg/ml), kanamycin (100 μg/ml), or hygromycin (15 μg/ml). Transient expression was conducted with a vacuum infiltration procedure on Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (OD600 = 1) carrying the binary vector for GOLD36-mRFP expression, as detailed in CITATION. M1 and M2 ST-GFP seeds were prepared as described earlier (CITATION). Thirty seeds from each M2 line were grown for 7 days and analyzed using confocal microscopy for displacement of the ST-GFP marker. The GOLD36 homozygous mutant was crossed with Landsberg erecta to generate a mapping population. The polymorphism between the two ecotypes was analyzed using a combination of cleaved, amplified polymorphic sequence markers and simple sequence length polymorphism markers (CITATION; CITATION). The rough map was performed on 57 individuals showing the aberrant phenotype. Identification of SNPs in the rough-mapped region was achieved as follows. Genomic DNA was submitted to the Michigan State University Research Technology Support Facility for sequencing using the Illumina Genome Analyzer II (GA II) (CITATION). DNA was prepared and sequenced using standard kits and protocols from Illumina Inc. The final library was sequenced in seven of the eight flow cell lanes; sequencing was performed for 50 cycles. Image analysis was performed on instrument using Real Time Analysis (RTA) v 1.4. Base calling, read passing, and error analysis were performed off instrument using the Illumina GA-Pipeline v1.4. A total of 154.8 million reads (7.74 Gbp as sequence) were generated. The default CHASTITY filter of the GA-Pipeline was used for determining passed filter (PF) reads; 114.6 million reads (74%, 5.73 Gbp) passed filtering. PF reads were aligned to the Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequence (TAIR8) using the short read alignment program Bowtie (CITATION) (v 0.10.0). Alignment parameters were adjusted to allow up to three mismatches in the seed (the first 28 bases). The Bowtie output was converted to MAQ map format using Bowtie-Maqconvert from the Bowtie distribution. MAQ (CITATION) (v 0.7.1) was used to assemble aligned reads into a consensus to identify putative SNPs. Raw SNPs were filtered with MAQ’s SNP filter, increasing the minimum depth to call a SNP to five reads. As SNPs of interest should be homozygous, the variants were further filtered to only those in which ≥80% of the overlapping reads supported the SNP call. An inverted laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM510 META, Carl Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com) was used for confocal analyses. For GFP5 and YFP imaging, settings were as described earlier (CITATION; CITATION). Imaging of DiOC6-stained cells and of GOLD36 cells labeled with propidium iodide or expressing mRFP constructs was carried out as described in CITATION. FRAP analyses were conducted as described earlier (CITATION). All confocal images were acquired with 1-μm pinhole settings. Post-acquisition analyses were performed with the Zeiss AIM software. PaintShop Pro was used for further image handling. Images reported in microscopy figures are representative of at least five independent experiments. Cellular nucleic acids were stained by immersing cotyledons in a solution with propidium iodide (PI; Invitrogen; working solution: 1 μg/ml) in water for 15 min. Endomembranes were stained with the general endomembrane dye DiOC6 (working solution: 1.8 μm; Molecular Probes, http://www.invitrogen.com) in water for 30 min, as described earlier (CITATION). Wortmannin (working solution: 33 μm; Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) was used on intact tissue for 12 h. All stock solutions were kept at −20°C, and working solutions were prepared fresh just before use. For analysis and observation at the microscope, samples were mounted on a slide with the solution in which they were last treated. Cotyledons were fixed and embedded in Spurr resin as described in CITATION, sectioned with a RMC PowerTome XL, post-stained with lead citrate, and observed with a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope (Hitachi, http://www.hitachi-hta.com). Accession numbers: gold36 (AGI: At1g54030); ubiquitin10 (At4g05320).
