!~ABS~! Members of the plant type I MADS domain subfamily have been reported to be involved in reproductive development in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). However, from the 61 type I genes in the Arabidopsis genome, only PHERES1, AGAMOUS-LIKE80 (AGL80), DIANA, AGL62, and AGL23 have been functionally characterized, which revealed important roles for these genes during female gametophyte and early seed development. The functions of the other genes are still unknown, despite the fact that the available single T-DNA insertion mutants have been largely investigated. The lack of mutant phenotypes is likely due to a considerable number of recent intrachromosomal duplications in the type I subfamily, resulting in nonfunctional genes in addition to a high level of redundancy. To enable a breakthrough in type I MADS box gene characterization, a framework needs to be established that allows the prediction of the functionality and redundancy of the type I genes. Here, we present a complete atlas of their expression patterns during female gametophyte and seed development in Arabidopsis, deduced from reporter lines containing translational fusions of the genes to green fluorescent protein and β-glucuronidase. All the expressed genes were revealed to be active in the female gametophyte or developing seed, indicating that the entire type I subfamily is involved in reproductive development in Arabidopsis. Interestingly, expression was predominantly observed in the central cell, antipodal cells, and chalazal endosperm. The combination of our expression results with phylogenetic and protein interaction data allows a better identification of putative redundantly acting genes and provides a useful tool for the functional characterization of the type I MADS box genes in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The few characterized type I MADS box genes from Arabidopsis (PHE1, AGL80, DIA, AGL62, and AGL23) are all expressed in the female gametophyte or developing seed. Therefore, we expected that several of the uncharacterized type I genes would also be expressed in these structures. Both the female gametophyte and the endosperm have a syncytial phase during their development, which complicates the interpretation of expression patterns derived from promoter::reporter constructs. To obtain a detailed overview of the expression patterns of the Arabidopsis type I MADS box genes, therefore, we generated translational fusions of the genes with GFP and GUS (pAGLx::AGLx-GFP-GUS). Because MADS box genes belong to a family of transcription factors, the fusion proteins are expected to be translocated to the nucleus, which facilitates the precise determination of spatial expression in the syncytial stages. We generated fusion constructs for all Arabidopsis type I MADS box genes identified by CITATION, except for AGL88, which has been annotated as a pseudogene (The Arabidopsis Information Resource), and AGL105, which is inserted in the coding region of another gene and therefore probably is a pseudogene as well. In addition, we also investigated the expression of the Mβ-type gene AGL101, which for unclear reasons is not present in the study of CITATION. In total, we studied the expression of 60 type I MADS box genes from Arabidopsis, 24 Mα-type genes, 16 Mγ-type genes, and 20 Mβ-type genes. For each construct, we amplified the genomic region of the gene from 2,000 bp upstream of the ATG until just before the stop codon, including any predicted intronic regions. However, if the next upstream locus was present within the 2-kb upstream region, only the part up to that locus was used in the construct. All constructs were successfully introduced to Arabidopsis by floral dip transformation, except for the constructs for AGL76 and AGL87, which repeatedly failed to yield transgenic seedlings. To determine the expression patterns of the Arabidopsis type I MADS box genes, tissues from plants transformed with pAGLx::AGLx-GFP-GUS constructs were incubated in GUS buffer for 1 to 3 d. GFP signal could only be observed if the GUS signal was already visible after one night of staining. However, in many cases, the expression level of the genes is so low that GUS expression could only be detected after 3 d of staining, and no GFP profile was obtained. The expression patterns for every gene are presented in Supplemental Figure S1, where information about the number of analyzed lines is also included. We obtained expression profiles for 38 of the 58 genes for which transgenic pAGLx::AGLx-GFP-GUS lines were studied. No GUS signal was observed in the transgenic lines of the remaining 20 genes. All expressed genes were found to be predominantly active in the female gametophyte or the developing seed. The observed expression profiles in both structures are shown in Figure 1. For each cell type in which GUS or GFP signal was observed, a representative image from one of the expressed genes is displayed. A complete overview of the expression patterns of the Arabidopsis type I MADS box genes is presented in Figure 2. The genes in the expression table are arranged according to their phylogeny, to facilitate the comparison of the expression patterns of paralogous genes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In the embryo sac, expression was predominantly found in the central cell and antipodal cells in the final developmental stages (FG6–FG8; CITATION). Although a few genes are also expressed at earlier stages of megagametogenesis, expression was never observed in the egg cell or synergids, suggesting that type I MADS box genes specifically play a role in the determination and functioning of the chalazal cell types. In the developing seed, expression was often detected shortly after fertilization in the endosperm and sometimes in the embryo. During seed development, the expression of many type I genes became restricted to the chalazal endosperm, which remains a syncytium. The overview in Figure 2 focuses on the expression in the female gametophyte and developing seed. However, several genes were found to be expressed in other tissues as well. This expression is summarized in the last column of the table but is presented in more detail in Supplemental Figure S1. We relatively often observed blue staining in mature pollen of the different transgenic lines. However, pollen of wild-type Arabidopsis plants also appears bluish after GUS staining. Therefore, we only assigned a signal to “pollen” in the expression data if it was clearly higher than background levels. We did not observe GUS signal in any of the transgenic lines from 20 of the 58 studied genes. From these 20 genes, six belong to the Mα class (AGL39, AGL60, AGL73, AGL74, AGL85, AGL97), eight to the Mβ class (AGL26, AGL43, AGL50, AGL51, AGL78, AGL93, AGL98, AGL101), and six are Mγ-type genes (AGL34, AGL36, AGL41, AGL90, AGL92, AGL95). The absence of GUS expression in these transgenic lines probably has different causes. First, it is possible that we did not detect the GUS signal, because the gene is only active under certain environmental conditions or because the expression is too weak or very transient. We primarily focused on the female gametophyte and developing seed and may have overlooked specific expression in other tissue types. A drawback of promoter::coding sequence-GFP-GUS constructs is that the signal of the chimeric protein is usually lower than that of GFP-GUS under the control of the promoter alone. This difference in signal strength was obvious for DIA (AGL61) and AGL29, for which we studied both promoter::reporter and promoter::coding sequence-reporter lines (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION). The levels of GUS and GFP expression and the number of expressing transgenic lines were considerably higher in the plants transformed with the promoter::reporter construct. Therefore, we cannot exclude that we did not observe GUS expression for very weakly expressed genes, which we would have observed if a promoter::reporter construct had been used. In addition, it is possible that the gene is expressed in a certain tissue but that the (chimeric) protein is absent because it is unstable or actively degraded. A second explanation is that the upstream regulatory region used in our constructs did not cover all cis-regulatory elements required for the expression of the gene. In a few cases, the 2-kb promoter region that we used for the constructs may not have been sufficient, because cis-elements farther upstream or 3′ from the coding sequence are required for the correct expression of the gene. This may very well be the case for the Mγ-type genes AGL36 and AGL90, which do not appear to be expressed in our studies but have recently been found to play a role in endosperm development (CITATION). The intergenic region upstream of both genes is approximately 10 kb, and important cis-elements may thus be located beyond the 2-kb fragment used in the construct. The fragment used for AGL86, a close homolog of AGL36 and AGL90, probably also does not contain all elements important for correct expression. Although we found expression for AGL86 in the anthers and the antipodal cells (Fig. 2), CITATION reported the presence of AGL86 transcripts in the endosperm at 4 d after pollination. Similarly, the other genes in the same clade, AGL92 and AGL34, may also be expressed in the endosperm, despite the fact that we did not observe any GUS expression in the corresponding transgenic lines. To test the expression of these five genes in the endosperm, we performed quantitative reverse transcription (q-RT)-PCR experiments with cDNA from siliques 1 to 2 d after pollination, pistils with stage FG6-7 embryo sacs, and leaves. We did not detect any significant transcript for AGL34 and AGL92 in any of the three tissues, suggesting that both genes are really not expressed in the female gametophyte or developing seed. The q-RT-PCR results for the other genes are presented in Figure 3A. The graphs show the relative expression of the genes in the different tissues. The graphs confirm the expression for AGL36 and AGL90 in developing seeds shortly after fertilization and show that both genes are not evidently expressed in the embryo sac or the leaf. AGL86 appears to be more ubiquitously expressed, since distinct expression can be found in all three tissues. In addition to the observed expression in the antipodal cells and anthers, AGL86 is probably also active in leaves and developing seeds. [[FIGURE]] To investigate if a larger promoter fragment of AGL86 would indeed result in an extended activity, we generated a promoter::reporter construct with the complete 3.6-kb upstream region of AGL86. Several pAGL86(3.6kb)::GFP-GUS lines showed expression in the developing seed, although the expression appeared relatively weak. The expression profile resembles that of PHE1, with expression in the early endosperm nuclei, embryo, and chalazal endosperm (Supplemental Fig. S1). These results reveal, in combination with the q-RT-PCR results, that the promoter fragments that we used to generate the fusion constructs for AGL36, AGL86, and AGL90 were most likely not sufficient and lack certain essential cis-regulatory elements. A third possibility is that the genes are really not expressed, because they lost essential regulatory elements during evolution. A high number of type I MADS box genes originated recently via intrachromosomal duplications (CITATION; CITATION). This occurs often via unequal crossing over, where one of the chromosomes acquires a duplicated region while that region is deleted from the other chromosome. If a gene is duplicated via this mode, its regulatory region may be disrupted, resulting in an altered expression or silencing of the gene. In Arabidopsis, these recent duplication events can be found in particular within the subclass of Mβ-type genes, where clusters of duplicated genes were identified on chromosomes I and V (CITATION). To investigate if some type I MADS box genes may have lost (part of) their regulatory region due to intrachromosomal duplication, we analyzed the sizes of the putative promoters (upstream region up to the next gene; Supplemental Table S2). This revealed that the promoters of the nonexpressed genes AGL74, AGL26, AGL43, and AGL51 are less than 500 bp, suggesting that these genes may have been immediately silenced after duplication by the loss of their regulatory region. However, whether these genes are really pseudogenes cannot be conclusively determined based on their promoter size. Also, the weakly expressed genes AGL52 and AGL75 have a promoter region that is shorter than 500 bp. The constructs for the Mβ-type gene AGL76 and the Mγ-type gene AGL87 were not successfully transformed to Arabidopsis; therefore, detailed expression data for these genes are not presented. To obtain some information about their activity, q-RT-PCR was performed on the same tissues as for AGL34, AGL36, AGL86, AGL90, and AGL92. Expression for AGL76 was not detected, but AGL87 transcript levels were high in leaves, pistils, and siliques (low ΔCt [threshold cycle] values for all three tissues; Fig. 3B), and it may thus be worthwhile to characterize this gene further in the future. The type I MADS box genes in plants are further subdivided into Mα-, Mβ-, and Mγ-type genes. Phylogenetic studies revealed that the Mβ- and Mγ-type genes from Arabidopsis share a common ancestor, while the Mα-type genes may not be monophyletic with the Mβ/Mγ clade (CITATION; CITATION). Although all duplications within the three type I subclasses presumably occurred after the divergence of monocots and dicots (CITATION), comparison of the Arabidopsis and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) type I MADS box genes suggests that the expansion and subsequent divergence of genes occurred earlier in the Mα-type subclass than in the Mβ- and Mγ-type subclasses (CITATION). In agreement with this observation, we find that the expression patterns of the Arabidopsis Mα-type genes have diverged more than those of the Mβ- and Mγ-type genes. The Mα-type genes show a wide range of different expression patterns in the female gametophyte and developing seed and can be divided into two groups based on the levels of their expression (Fig. 2). The first group contains genes that are distinctly expressed (the GUS signal is visible after 1 d of staining); the second group contains only weakly expressed genes. Within the first group, two distinct clades can be recognized, in which the genes share more or less the same expression patterns. The first clade contains the genes AGL23, AGL28, AGL40, DIA, and AGL62. AGL23, DIA, and AGL62 have already been functionally characterized and revealed to play a role in central cell development (DIA [CITATION]), endosperm development (AGL62 [CITATION]), and early embryo sac and seed development (AGL23 [CITATION]). We confirmed the expression patterns of DIA and AGL62 and the expression of AGL23 in the developing seed. However, GUS signal for AGL23 during early female gametophyte development, as reported by CITATION, was not detected in our studies, although we used a comparable upstream region for the analysis. We detected the earliest nucleus-localized GUS signal for AGL23 in the central cell of stage FG6 ovules. The functions of the other two genes in the clade, AGL28 and AGL40, are still unknown, but their expression in the embryo, endosperm nuclei, and chalazal endosperm of developing seeds suggests that both genes may have overlapping functions with AGL62 and AGL23. AGL28 is a remarkable type I MADS box gene, because it is expressed in a wide range of tissues in addition to its expression in the embryo sac and developing seed. We observed expression in hypocotyl, cotyledon, root, and leaf tips, in the stem and inflorescence, and in young leaves. These data are in conformance with the study of CITATION, who found that AGL28 is expressed in vegetative tissues. Whether AGL28 really plays a role in flowering, as suggested by the AGL28 overexpression phenotype (CITATION), remains to be investigated. The second clade contains the paralogs AGL57, AGL58, AGL59, and AGL64. These genes are all distinctly expressed in the embryo and the peripheral endosperm. The fact that no mutant phenotypes have been found for any of these genes (CITATION) suggests that they function in a redundant manner. This may also be the case for the paralogous genes AGL29 and AGL91, which have overlapping expression patterns in the chalazal endosperm. Finally, we also observed a distinct and interesting expression pattern for AGL100, which is highly homologous to AGL60. The gene is already expressed during the early stages of megagametogenesis, from the one-nucleate stage onward (FG1). The GUS signal can be detected in the course of embryo sac development in several nuclei, until it becomes restricted to the antipodal nuclei in stage FG5-6. Although we did not precisely determine the spatial and temporal expression of AGL100, its activity in certain nuclei during megagametogenesis may indicate a role in cell fate specification. We did not observe GUS signal in the pAGL60::AGL60-GFP-GUS transgenic lines, suggesting that AGL60 does not function in a redundant manner with AGL100. The group of weakly expressed genes constitutes one large clade, containing AGL39, AGL74, AGL55, AGL56, AGL97, AGL99, AGL83, AGL73, and AGL84. We did not observe any GUS expression for AGL39, AGL74, AGL97, and AGL73, while the other five genes are specifically expressed in the female gametophyte. Occasionally, GUS signal for AGL56 and AGL83 was observed in unspecified nuclei of stage FG2-5 embryo sacs, but the clearest signal was found for AGL83, AGL73, and AGL99 in the central cell and for AGL84 in the antipodal cells of stage FG6-7 female gametophytes. The Mγ-type genes for which expression was observed are all relatively strongly expressed. Except for AGL80, which is predominantly expressed in the central cell (CITATION), all Mγ-type genes were revealed to be most strongly expressed in the developing seed. We did not detect GUS signal for AGL36, AGL86, and AGL90, but these genes are active in the developing seed, as discussed above. The gene clade consisting of AGL34, AGL35, AGL36, PHE1, PHE2, AGL80, AGL86, AGL90, and AGL92 contains interesting genes that have been shown to be involved in endosperm proliferation. PHE1 is an imprinted gene that is paternally expressed in the developing seed (CITATION). Although the phe1 single mutant does not show an aberrant phenotype, down-regulation of PHE1 in a mea mutant does partially rescue the embryo and endosperm overproliferation phenotype. Recently, CITATION found that, in addition to PHE1, also PHE2, AGL35, AGL36, and AGL90 are important for endosperm development. In developing seeds from incompatible interhybrid crosses between Arabidopsis and Arabidopsis arenosa, the expression of the five genes is increased compared with seeds from compatible crosses (CITATION). In correspondence with the fact that we did not observe expression for AGL34 and AGL92, both genes were not identified in the study of CITATION, suggesting that they are actually silenced and may be considered as pseudogenes. In support of this idea, the AGL34 coding sequence lacks the Mγ motif, which is hypothesized to be required for heterodimerization (CITATION). Several single mutants of genes in the PHE1 cluster have been studied, but none has been found to exhibit a mutant phenotype (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that the genes function in a redundant manner. Whether AGL86 also contributes to endosperm development is still unclear, but the broad expression profile of this gene suggests that its function has at least partly diverged. AGL48 is expressed in the globular embryo and probably in the embryo surrounding endosperm (Supplemental Fig. S1). The protein was found to interact with the Mα-type protein AGL64 (CITATION), which is colocalized in the embryo. The gene clade to which AGL48 belongs also contains AGL41 and AGL95, for which no expression was observed, and AGL96, which is also embryo expressed. AGL41 is most likely a silenced pseudogene, because its coding sequence contains an early stop codon just downstream from the MADS box. The activity of both AGL48 and AGL96 in the embryo suggests that both genes function in a redundant manner in embryo development, probably in a complex with the embryo-expressed Mα-type paralogs AGL64, AGL57, AGL58, and AGL59. However, evidence for the interaction between the members of both clades is confined to the observation by CITATION that AGL48 and AGL64 form a heterodimer in yeast. Finally, the closely related genes AGL45 and AGL46 are both expressed in the endosperm. AGL46 is an interesting gene, because it is the only type I MADS box gene that is specifically expressed in the peripheral endosperm and not in the chalazal endosperm. The gene is highly homologous to AGL45, for which we did not manage to generate a pAGL45::AGL45-GFP-GUS construct. Although we produced several entry clones of the genomic AGL45 sequence, these clones repeatedly failed to recombine with the destination vector. Therefore, we analyzed pAGL45::GFP-GUS plants, which revealed that AGL45 is expressed in the peripheral and chalazal endosperm of developing seeds. Possibly, AGL45 functions redundantly with AGL46 in the peripheral endosperm. In contrast to the Mγ-type genes, the Mβ-type MADS box genes are mainly expressed in the female gametophyte. Their expression is in general weak, comparable to the levels of the Mα-type genes AGL55, AGL56, AGL73, AGL83, AGL84, and AGL99, the proteins of which interact with the Mβ-type proteins (CITATION). Clades with different expression patterns cannot be distinguished within the Mβ subclass, and it appears that all genes belong to one large cluster, which is active in the central cell (Fig. 2). This suggests a high redundancy and would explain why no mutant of an Mβ-type gene has been identified so far. However, within the large Mβ-clade, several individual genes evolved additional expression patterns and may have acquired other functions. Especially AGL53 and AGL81, which are more strongly expressed than the other Mβ-type genes and also active in other tissues, are interesting in this respect. Other interesting genes are AGL47, AGL49, and AGL89, which are active in the central cell and during early megagametogenesis, and AGL54 and AGL77, which are expressed in the antipodal cells. MADS domain transcription factors act predominantly as heterodimers or higher order complexes to regulate the expression of downstream targets. CITATION published an interaction map of the Arabidopsis MADS domain proteins based on yeast two-hybrid experiments. This study revealed that type I MADS domain proteins interact predominantly with other type I proteins and that Mα-type proteins preferably heterodimerize with Mβ- or Mγ-type proteins, whereas interactions within one subclass are rare. Interestingly, the Mα-type genes that are distinctly expressed and belong to the AGL62 clade encode proteins that only form heterodimers with Mγ-type proteins, whereas the genes that are only weakly expressed in the female gametophyte (the AGL83 clade) encode proteins that interact with Mβ-type proteins. This suggests that both gene clades not only diverged in their expression patterns but that the proteins also evolved different interaction specificities. This protein divergence also occurred to a certain extent within the different clades, resulting in less redundancy than was inferred on the basis of the expression profiles and phylogeny. Therefore, integration of our expression data with the interaction data of CITATION allows a more reliable prediction of which type I MADS domain complexes actually play a role in planta and provides more insight into the possible redundancy among the type I genes. CITATION reported that three type I MADS box proteins, AGL39, AGL74, and AGL97, form interactions with many other type I and MIKC-type proteins. However, our study shows that these genes are not expressed and that the heterodimers are thus not formed in planta. The majority of the other type I heterodimers identified by CITATION are formed between proteins that are colocalized in certain cell types. Figure 4 lists the heterodimers that are most likely present in the central cell, antipodal cells, embryo, and (chalazal) endosperm. These data show that in every cell type, different combinations of closely related proteins result in many possible complexes. However, if all putative redundant complexes are considered the same, the central cell and embryo contain only two types of heterodimers, while the antipodal cells and the (chalazal) endosperm have three. These results suggest that the nonredundant type I complexes fulfill 10 different functions in female gametophyte and seed development. However, especially in the endosperm, proteins from the same clade have probably evolved different functions and more nonredundant complexes may exist. This can be concluded from the facts that the agl23 and agl62 single mutants exhibit different mutant phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION) and that several genes, like AGL35, have very particular expression patterns. In addition, several distinctly expressed genes, like AGL29 and AGL92, encode proteins that did not dimerize with other MADS domain proteins in the yeast two-hybrid screen but may be involved in MADS complexes in planta or interact with other transcription factors. The total number of functional nonredundant complexes may thus be higher than 10. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the type I expression patterns also revealed interesting information about the development of the endosperm shortly after fertilization. The localization of the Mγ-type protein AGL35 appeared especially remarkable; therefore, we studied it in more detail. AGL35-GFP-GUS was observed for the first time shortly after fertilization in the initial endosperm nuclei positioned at the micropylar end (Fig. 5A). Although the number of endosperm nuclei increases thereafter exponentially, the AGL35-GFP signal remained restricted to three or four nuclei, which appeared to migrate from the micropylar to the chalazal end to form the chalazal endosperm (Figs. 1I and 5C). This suggests that chalazal endosperm identity is already established in the first endosperm nuclei and persists after division only in those nuclei that are destined to become the chalazal endosperm while it becomes lost from the other nuclei. GUS staining of the developing seeds with the pAGL35::AGL35-GFP-GUS construct shows a similar pattern, although a weak signal could also be detected in the other endosperm nuclei due to the higher sensitivity of the method (Fig. 5B). Nevertheless, the AGL35 reporter appears to be a perfect marker in which to study the determination of the chalazal endosperm. We also tested whether AGL35 expression is regulated via imprinting, like the expression of its homolog PHE1 (CITATION), but reciprocal crosses revealed that the gene is expressed from both the paternal and the maternal transgenes approximately 24 h after pollination. [[FIGURE]] In addition to the AGL35 reporter line, several other AGL reporter lines appear very suitable for marker line use. We found that the PHE1 protein is also present in the pollen tube, which was not reported before (CITATION). To investigate this further, we pollinated wild-type pistils with pPHE1::PHE1-GFP-GUS pollen. The GUS/GFP signal was clearly visible in germinating pollen on the stigma and could subsequently be observed throughout the growing pollen tube (Fig. 5D). After entering the embryo sac via the micropyle, the signal was released in the penetrated synergid cell (Fig. 5, E and F). The GFP signal was more specific than the GUS signal and was concentrated in the growing tip, where the two generative nuclei are located (Fig. 5E). Because the GUS/GFP signal is released in the synergid cell upon the entrance of the pollen tube, the pPHE1::PHE1-GFP-GUS lines are good markers to show that the pollen tube is actually penetrating the embryo sac. Within the context of the female gametophyte, the DIA, AGL23, AGL28, AGL80, AGL82, and AGL81 reporter constructs can be used to show central cell identity, while the reporters of AGL62, AGL100, AGL57, PHE1, AGL86, and AGL53 are specifically active in the antipodal cells. Also, many chalazal endosperm markers are available, like AGL29, AGL91, AGL40, and AGL62. Finally, we identified the AGL46 reporter to be specific for the peripheral endosperm.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in a growth chamber with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 22°C. Seeds resulting from floral dip transformation were sterilized for 1 min in 100% ethanol and 5 min in 1% bleach, washed three times in sterile water, and germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog selective plates (2.2 g of Murashige and Skoog salts including Gamborg’s B5 vitamins, 0.5 g of MES, 30 mg L−1 kanamycin, or 15 mg L−1 phosphinothricin for Basta selection). After 10 d of incubation in a growth chamber (16 h of light/8 h of dark, 22°C), resistant plants were transferred to soil. The reporter constructs were generated using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). Genomic fragments including up to 2 kb of promoter region and terminating just before the stop codon were amplified from Columbia genomic DNA using gene-specific primers with additional nucleotides for integration into the entry vector. The sequences of the primers are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Entry vectors were either constructed using the TOPO system (pENTR/D-TOPO) or via the BP reaction by recombination of the PCR fragments into pDONR221 or pDONR207. The entry vectors were subsequently recombined with the destination vector pKGWFS7 (kanamycin resistance) or pBGWFS7 (Basta resistance; CITATION). The resulting clones were sequenced from both sides with primers 190 (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′) and 191 (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′), and the frame was checked with primer seqGFPrev (5′-AGTCGTGCTGCTTCATGTGGT-3′). The constructs for the Mβ-type genes were completely sequenced. The resulting vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens using freeze-thaw transformation (CITATION). Transformation of Arabidopsis wild-type Columbia plants was performed using the floral dip method as described by CITATION. GUS activity was analyzed by staining various tissues 1 to 3 d at 37°C in staining solution (10 mm EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 2 mm Fe2+CN, 2 mm Fe3+CN, 1 mg mL−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid, and 100 μg mL−1 chloramphenicol in 50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.0). If necessary, pistils were incised on both sides for optimal staining of the ovules. Ovules were cleared in 20% lactic acid/20% glycerol and observed on a Zeiss Axiovert 135 microscope using differential interference contrast optics. For analysis of GFP expression, pistils were dissected on a microscope slide in 50 mm phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) and observed with confocal laser-scanning microscopy using a Leica TCS-SP5 microscope. GFP was excited with an argon laser (488 nm), and emission was detected between 500 and 530 nm. The Arabidopsis type I MADS box protein sequences were aligned with ClustalW. The alignment was transferred to BioEdit and adjusted by hand, and the first 240 sites were used to generate a neighbor-joining tree in BioEdit (Accessory Applications > ProtDist). The tree file was opened in TreeView and rooted with the Mα clade. Leaf, pistil, and silique samples were harvested from Columbia wild-type Arabidopsis plants. RNA was extracted using the Qiagen RNeasy Plant mini kit, and cDNA was synthesized with the iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Bio-Rad). Real-time RT-PCR was performed with the iQ SYBR Green Supermix from Bio-Rad. The following PCR program was used: 1 min at 95°C, followed by 40 cycles of 10 s at 95°C and 45 s at 57°C. Two biological and two technical replicates were performed. A polyubiquitin gene (UBC) was used as reference gene (CITATION). The primers are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The gene names and their Arabidopsis Genome Initiative numbers are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. GFP/GUS signal observed for the different pAGLx::AGLx-GFP-GUS transgenic lines. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used to generate the pAGLx::AGLx-GFP-GUS constructs (A) and primers used for the q-RT-PCR experiment (B). Supplemental Table S2. Putative promoter lengths of the type I MADS box genes.
