!~ABS~! Microtubules are composed of polymerized α/β-tubulin heterodimers. Biogenesis of assembly-competent tubulin dimers is a complex multistep process that requires sequential actions of distinct molecular chaperones and cofactors. Tubulin folding cofactor A (TFCA), which captures β-tubulin during the folding pathway, has been identified in many organisms. Here, we report the crystal structure of Arabidopsis thaliana TFC A (KIESEL, KIS), which forms a monomeric three-helix bundle. The functional binding analysis demonstrated that KIS interacts with β-tubulin in plant. Furthermore, mutagenesis studies indicated that the α-helical regions of KIS participate in β-tubulin binding. Unlike the budding yeast TFC A, the two loop regions of KIS are not required for this interaction suggesting a distinct binding mechanism of TFC A to β-tubulin in plants.
!~RES~! The crystal structure of KIS has been solved and refined to 1.6Å. The last six residues are not built and some residues in the loop regions are not well defined. KIS forms a monomer in the crystal lattice and also in solution as results from gel filtration assays (data not shown). The whole molecule has an elongated shape with a length of 64Å and a width of about 14Å. The overall structure of KIS is similar to those of Rbl2p monomer (PDB ID: 1QSD CITATION) and human CoA (PDB ID: 1H7C CITATION), consisting of three α-helices connected by two linker loops. The two long helices (α1 and α2) and one short helix (α3) pack together into an antiparallel bundle (CITATION A). The α1 helix spans residues 1–41, the α2 helix spans residues 45–85, and the α3 helix spans residues 92–105. The loop2 (L2) connecting the α2- and α3-helices shows a poor electron density, suggesting that this loop is flexible in the free form of KIS. Pro63 is the residue in the helix that exhibits a low helix propensity and it induces a bend of about 10° in the helical axis of the α2 helix, resulting in a slightly convex surface formation. The presence of a proline residue at this position is a highly conserved character in the TFC A family (CITATIONC). Sequence comparison of TFC A from different organisms showed that KIS shares about 31% identity with Rbl2p and 45% identity with human CoA. KIS and Rbl2p monomer have three helices that are with a root mean square deviation (RMSD) of 1.6Å for 85 Cα atoms. Most of the helical regions coincide well (CITATIONB). Though KIS and human CoA show higher sequence identity, the RMSD for KIS and human CoA is 2.1Å for 75 Cα atoms. The α-helices of KIS and human CoA are almost superimposable except for the N-terminal half of the α2 helix. The α2 helix of KIS does not have so extensive helix distortion as human CoA, with Cα deviations of up to 5Å between the two proteins. The deviation region of the N-terminal part of α2 helix consists of residues Gln50-Ile62. The residue Glu52 of KIS projects the side chain toward Lys39 in the α1 helix to form a potential salt bridge (CITATIONB). This salt bridge has also been observed between Glu52 and Lys38 in Rbl2p, but is lost in human CoA between the corresponding residues Ala54 and Arg41. This may partially contribute to the shifts of the α2 helix. The largest difference in the backbone φ angle between these two proteins locates at Ser58 with −56° in KIS, comparing with −107° for the corresponding residue Ser60 in human CoA. Furthermore, the loop regions are different among the three proteins (CITATIONB). The loop1 (L1) connecting the α1- and α2-helices shows different orientations in each protein. In addition, the 310 helix in the L2 loop of human CoA is not present in KIS or in Rbl2p. Though these three proteins have similar topology, the aggregation states of them are different. Rbl2p has been reported as a homodimer in crystal. The α1- and α2-helices of one monomer run antiparallel to the corresponding helices of the other monomer to form a four-helix bundle CITATION. In the structure of KIS, only an artificial dimer due to crystal packing is observed and it is different from the dimer of Rbl2p (data not shown). This suggests that KIS exists mainly as monomer, similar to the report on human CoA CITATION. TFC A is a chaperone in the β-tubulin folding pathway; both Rbl2p and human CoA can interact with β-tubulin CITATION. To determine whether KIS can interact with β-tubulin in planta, we first performed coimmunoprecipitation assay by coexpressing KIS-HA and FLAG-TUB9 in transient expression system in N. benthamiana. The recombinant protein was immunoprecipitated with anti-HA and anti-FLAG antibodies, respectively. As shown in CITATION A, KIS-HA was present in the FLAG-TUB9 immune complex. The reciprocal immunoprecipitation experiments also detected the interaction between β-tubulin and KIS. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis was carried out to further confirm the interaction in vivo. The C-terminal half of YFP (c-YFP) was fused to KIS and the N-terminal half of YFP (n-YFP) was fused to TUB9. Then the two constructs were delivered into the leaf cells of N. benthamiana. As seen in CITATIONB, strong fluorescence was observed in the leaf epidermal cells of tobacco coexpressing the KIS-cYFP and TUB9-nYFP, whereas only marginal fluorescence was detected in the negative control cells. Taken together, our data support the hypothesis that KIS interacts with β-tubulin in the plant cell. It has been proposed that Rbl2p binds to β-tubulin as a dimer. The N-terminus residues Pro3 and Thr4, the residues in the L1 loop connecting α1- and α2-helices of one monomer, and the residues in the L2 loop connecting α2- and α3-helices of the other monomer are supposed to mediate the interaction with β-tubulin CITATION. However, human CoA has been shown to interact with β-tubulin via the residues in three α-helices CITATION. Then, site-directed mutagenesis of KIS was made to determine the contributions of some residues to β-tubulin binding. The targets for mutagenesis analyses are residues have been reported to be the potential β-tubulin binding sites in Rbl2p or in human CoA. In addition, some conserved residues are selected in our mutation studies. To reduce the number of alleles, we created some mutations that two or more adjacent residues were mutated to alanines. The binding of β-tubulin for each mutant was tested using coimmunoprecipitation experiments. As shown in CITATION , the interaction of mutants E20A, Y24A and E57A with β-tubulin significantly dropped. CD spectra assay were performed to rule out the possibility of incorrect protein folding (CITATION A). Glu20 and Tyr24 are located in the middle part of the α1 helix and the corresponding residues in Rbl2p have been reported to be the Rbl2p homodimer interface. To see if the decrease of β-tubulin binding is due to changes of oligomerization, aggregation states of these mutants in vivo in plants were analyzed. Protein extracts from N. benthamiana leaves overexpressing the wild-type of KIS or the other mutants were fractionated by SEC and the products of the column fractions were monitored by immunoblotting using anti-HA antibodies. The extracts of untreated plants were analyzed as a control. As shown in CITATIONB, both the wild-type and the mutants of KIS proteins from plants showed similar column distributions (fractions 18–24), suggesting that these mutation did not affect the oligomeric state of KIS protein in vivo and these two residues might directly participate in β-tubulin recognition. To further understand their roles in β-tubulin binding, mutants of E20Q and Y24F were constructed and analyzed using same methods as described above. In contrast to the significant drop of β-tubulin recognition with ala mutants, both mutations of E20Q and Y24F had slight effects on the interaction, suggesting that a polar and a big hydrophobic group are needed for Glu20 and Tyr24 positions, respectively. Mutation of some helical residues, including Arg5, Ile9, Arg16, Asn53, Val54 and Arg59 showed no effect on binding, while some other helical mutants H22A S23A, E29A R30A and K49A Q50A are less effective in associating with β-tubulin (CITATION). In addition, decrease and increase on β-tubulin binding affinity were observed for D64A and C65S mutants, respectively, similar to the results of a previous study on human CoA CITATION. To study the roles of loop region in the interaction, the L1 and L2 loops of KIS were mutated separately and simultaneously. Yet, none of the loop mutations had any effect on the interaction with β-tubulin (CITATION). As a summary, the α-helical regions of KIS make contact with β-tubulin and residues Glu20, Tyr24 in the α1 helix, Glu57 in the α2 helix are key residues for β-tubulin recognition, whereas the loop regions are not crucial for this interaction.
!~MM~! The preparation, crystallization of the KIS protein and details of X-ray diffraction data collection of the crystal were described previously CITATION. The structure of KIS was solved by molecular replacement using the program MolRep in the CCP4 package CITATION. The Rbl2p structure (PDB ID: 1QSD CITATION) was used as the search model. Refinement was carried out with the program Phenix CITATION combined with manual adjustment using software COOT CITATION. The stereochemistry quality of the structure was checked by PROCHECK CITATION. The refinement statistics of the structure are listed in CITATION . The coordinates and experimental structural factors have been deposited in the Protein Data Bank with accession number 3MXZ. KIS and Arabidopsis β-tubulin 9 (TUB9) were amplified by PCR from the cDNA library of Arabidopsis thaliana. HA and FLAG epitope tags were added to KIS or TUB9 using gene specific primers for PCR. Restriction fragments were first ligated into a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-based pRTL2 vector CITATION. Then the fragments were cleaved from pRTL2-HA-KIS or pRTL2-FLAG-TUB9 with PstI and inserted into the PstI site of the vector pCAMBIA1301. For constructs used in BiFC experiments, KIS and TUB9 were PCR amplified and cloned into the pSPYCE-35S and pSPYNE-35S vectors, respectively CITATION. Site-directed mutagenesis was introduced into KIS gene by the overlap extension PCR method. All the DNA constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing and used in transient expression system for coimmunoprecipitation or in the Escherichia coli expression system for protein production. The Agrobacterium infiltration was carried out according to the method previously described CITATION. Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying constructs of 35S-KIS-HA or the mutants of KIS and 35S-FLAG-TUB9 were mixed at a ratio of 1:1 for co-infiltration. Total proteins were extracted from N. benthamiana leaves with IP buffer (50mM PIPES pH 6.9, 1mM MgCl2, 1mM EGTA, 5mM dithiothreitol, 0.1% NonidetP-40, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor cocktail (Roche)) 72h after infiltration. About 1mg of soluble protein was incubated with 0.5μg anti-FLAG monoclonal antibody (Sigma) or 0.5μg anti-HA monoclonal antibody (Tiangen, Beijing) at 4°C for 1h, followed by an addition of 30μl of protein G Sepharose-4 fast flow beads (GE) and incubation for another 3h. Then the beads were washed four times with IP buffer. After washing, the beads were resuspended in SDS–PAGE loading buffer and subjected to immunoblot analysis. The immunocomplex was detected with anti-HA monoclonal (Roche) or anti-FLAG monoclonal (Sigma) antibodies. Epidermal cells of tobacco leaves were co-infiltrated with Agrobacterium strains containing the BiFC constructs. Complementation of YFP was visualized under a confocal microscope. All CD spectra of proteins were measured in a J-715 CD spectropolarimeter (JASCO, Japan) at 298K by adding 400μl (0.1mg/ml) protein sample to a 2-mm quartz cuvette. Wavelength scans were performed between 190 and 250nm with a 2-nm bandwidth and a 0.5-nm step size at a rate of 1nm/s. Each spectrum represents an average of three scans. The protein extracts were prepared in 50mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 150mM NaCl, 0.1% NonidetP-40, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Approximately 400μg of soluble protein was applied to a Superdex 200 10/300 GL column (GE healthcare). The column was eluted with the extraction buffer and fractions (0.5ml each) were collected and subjected to immunoblot analysis with anti-HA monoclonal antibody. The protein standards were as follows: ferritin (440kDa), aldolase (158kDa), conalbumin (75kDa), ovalbumin (43kDa), carbonic anhydrase (29kDa), ribonuclease A (13.7kDa).
