!~ABS~! Pea (Pisum sativum) BP80 is a vacuolar sorting receptor for soluble proteins and has a cytosolic domain essential for its intracellular trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and the prevacuole. Based on mammalian knowledge, we introduced point mutations in the cytosolic region of the receptor and produced chimeras of green fluorescent protein fused to the transmembrane domain of pea BP80 along with the modified cytosolic tails. By analyzing the subcellular location of these chimera, we found that mutating Glu-604, Asp-616, or Glu-620 had mild effects, whereas mutating the Tyr motif partially redistributed the chimera to the plasma membrane. Replacing both Ile-608 and Met-609 by Ala (IMAA) led to a massive redistribution of fluorescence to the vacuole, indicating that recycling is impaired. When the chimera uses the alternative route, the IMAA mutation led to a massive accumulation at the plasma membrane. Using Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing a fluorescent reporter with the full-length sequence of At VSR4, we demonstrated that the receptor undergoes brefeldin A–sensitive endocytosis. We conclude that the receptors use two pathways, one leading directly to the lytic vacuole and the other going via the plasma membrane, and that the Ileu-608 Met-609 motif has a role in the retrieval step in both pathways.
!~RES~! Nine different constructs (Figure 1) with selected amino acid substitutions in the cytosolic tail were made from the original PS1 chimera (a green fluorescent protein (GFP) linked to the transmembrane and cytosolic domains of pea BP80; CITATION). We transiently expressed these constructs in tobacco epidermal cells and observed their fluorescence pattern. For the original PS1, we found punctate fluorescent structures in the cytosol 72 h after transformation (Figures 2B to 2C). This labeling appeared at the margins in optical sections through the middle of the cell (Figure 2B). In an optical section close to the surface of the cell, spots were easy to visualize (Figure 2B, detailed view). One day earlier, 48 h after transformation, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) labeling was also visible (Figure 2A and inset, ring around the nucleus) and disappeared when the fusion protein had reached its final destination. This labeling is typical for this type of fusion protein and has been extensively described previously (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). The spots are mostly prevacuolar compartments and sometimes colocalize with Golgi as expected for the TGN (Figure 2F; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To better delineate the distribution of fluorescence, we took z-series of the outer half of the cell and stacked the images to make a three-dimensional projection (Figure 2C). We found that in addition to the dominant punctate pattern, fluorescence could also be detected in the plasma membrane (Figure 2B, arrow) and inside the vacuole (Figure 2B, v) but with intensity that slightly varied between cells and expression experiments. We therefore quantified in z-stacks the average fluorescence intensity in each of the three subcellular locations: punctate structures, plasma membrane, and vacuole (see Methods for more details). This quantification was made on at least 90 independent measurements for each of the three subcellular locations. The average signal intensity obtained for each subcellular location was then expressed relative to the total fluorescence (punctate structures plus plasma membrane plus vacuole representing 100%). The quantification shown in Figure 2E for PS1 confirmed that fluorescence is mostly (almost 80%) in dots. To make sure that this distribution reflects the final destination of the chimera, we also quantified fluorescence of stably transformed tobacco plants expressing the PS1 construct (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Indeed, in these plants, the fluorescence was 84% in dots, 14.5% in plasma membrane, and 1.5% in vacuole We first expressed chimeras with mutations in each of three acidic amino acids found in the cytosolic tail of BP80. Glu-604 is conserved in all 23 plant homologs identified so far. Asp-616 is conserved in pea and all Arabidopsis homologs, while Glu-620 is found in pea BP80 and its two closest Arabidopsis homologs, At VSR3 and At VSR4. As shown for E604A in a z-stack projection (Figure 2D), the labeling pattern for all three mutants was similar to the pattern for the PS1 control. Quantitative intensity measurement confirmed there was no significant difference in distribution, except for a fluorescence increase in the vacuole compared with the control (4 times for D616A and 3 times for E620A; Figure 2E). To find out if these mutations modified protein partitioning between the Golgi/TGN and the prevacuole, we coexpressed each of the three mutants with the Golgi marker ERD2-CFP (for cyan fluorescent protein). As expected, the PS1 construct accumulated mainly in prevacuolar compartments distinct from the Golgi (Figure 2F, arrow). The same was true for the two mutants D616A and E620A (Figures 2H and 2I, respectively). By contrast, distribution of the E604A mutant protein clearly differed from that of PS1; it colocalized almost exclusively with the Golgi marker (Figure 2G). To conclude, mutating the acidic amino acids had mild effects on the reporter's distribution. Mutating Glu-604 increased Golgi localization, whereas mutating Asp-616 and Glu-620 only slightly increased exposure of the fusion protein to a lytic environment. To test the role of the Tyr motif on the subcellular localization of the reporter, we transiently expressed the mutated chimera Y612A (Figure 1) in tobacco epidermal cells. As shown by a three-dimensional reconstruction of labeled cells, the distribution of the reporter appeared very similar to the distribution of PS1 except that the plasma membrane seemed more fluorescent than in the control (cf. Figures 3A and 2C). To confirm this observation, we quantified fluorescence intensity in the three subcellular locations: punctate structures, plasma membrane, and vacuole. There was indeed almost twice as much fluorescence in the plasma membrane compared with the control, with no change in the vacuole (Figure 3C). [[FIGURE]] To test the role of the IM dipeptide, we expressed the IMAA chimera, in which both Ile-608 and Met-609 were mutated to Ala (Figure 1). We analyzed the subcellular localization of the fluorescence after 72 h of expression. As shown on Figure 3B, the distribution of fluorescence was drastically different from that of PS1; the vacuole appeared strongly labeled (Figure 3B, v). The nucleus is visible in negative contrast (Figure 3B, arrow). Quantitatively, the IMAA vacuolar fluorescence was 25 times higher than for PS1 (Figure 3C). Fluorescence inside the vacuole can be explained by cleavage and release of the soluble reporter from the membrane-bound fusion protein. We noticed that the vacuolar labeling gradually appeared during the transient expression and peaked at 64 to 72 h after transformation. After only 48 h of transient expression, fluorescence was found in small dots (Figures 3D and 3E) and then decreased concomitantly with the appearance of vacuolar staining. To gain further insights into the nature of these intermediate compartments, we coexpressed the IMAA construct with the Golgi reference ERD2-CFP and observed doubly transformed cells 48 h after transformation, when punctate labeling was dominant. As shown in Figure 3F, the compartments labeled with IMAA were almost entirely distinct from the Golgi. We then coexpressed the soluble reporter cargo Aleu-CFP that is transported to the vacuole by VSRs. This reporter contains the vacuolar sorting signal of petunia (Petunia hybrida) aleurain that is sufficient for vacuolar targeting (CITATION). When expressed in plants, this soluble cargo reporter was also found first in small dots that are believed to be prevacuolar intermediates prior to vacuole delivery (CITATION; Kotzer et al., 2004). When Aleu-CFP was coexpressed with IMAA and cells were observed 48 h after transformation, IMAA and Aleu-CFP spots were found to totally colocalize (Figure 3G), indicating the prevacuolar nature of IMAA intermediate compartments. Altogether, this indicates that mutating the IM dipeptide strongly affects the reporter distribution, decreasing Golgi localization in favor of prevacuolar localization. Prevacuolar fluorescence is transient, indicating that recycling of the reporter is impaired. We tested the role of the Tyr motif in relation to the three acidic amino acids by generating double mutants and then transiently expressing them in tobacco epidermal cells. The double mutants had a pattern of expression that resembled the nonmutated control PS1 (Figures 4B to 4E). Quantification revealed that plasma membrane fluorescence intensity for all three mutants was actually closer to Y612A (Figure 4A) than to PS1 (Figure 3C). In contrast with the single mutants D616A and E620A, fluorescence intensity in the vacuole did not increase for the corresponding double mutants (Figure 4A vacuole compared with Figure 2E vacuole). This indicates that the Tyr mutation is dominant and masks the effect of the Asp-616 and Glu-620 mutations. We then addressed the nature of the dots by coexpression with a Golgi reference marker and found that the Glu-604 mutation caused a redistribution of the marker to the Golgi/TGN (Figure 4C), as was already observed with the single mutant (Figure 2G). Because the Tyr motif mutation is redirecting receptor trafficking to an alternative pathway, this indicates that Asp-616 and Glu-620 function only in the main pathway, whereas Glu-604 is likely to play a role in both pathways. [[FIGURE]] To address the relative roles of the Tyr and the IM motifs, we prepared a corresponding double mutant (Figure 1). We transiently expressed the IMAA+Y612A construct in tobacco epidermal cells. The mutant protein showed a major localization at the plasma membrane with very few intracellular dots (Figure 4F). Quantification of signal intensity clearly confirmed redistribution of this mutant to the plasma membrane (Figure 4I). The signal intensity in the plasma membrane was 3 times higher than that for PS1. To ensure that the whole reporter reached the plasma membrane, we plasmolysed transformed cells and found that labeling remained associated with the plasma membrane (Figures 4G and 4H, arrow with a star), whereas the extracellular space was unstained. This confirmed that the fluorescence was due to the membrane-bound reporter and not to a released and secreted core GFP. The fluorescence intensity at the plasma membrane almost doubled for IMAA+Y612A in comparison to Y612A alone (Figure 4I), indicating that the IMAA motif is important for endocytosis. Additionally, very few spots could also be detected for the IMAA+Y612A reporter. We identified these as being mostly Golgi or closely associated with it since they colocalized with ERD2-GFP (Figure 4J). The fact that we found very little fluorescence in the vacuole for IMAA+Y612A (in contrast with the IMAA mutant) indicates that the Tyr-612 mutation dominates over the retrieval effect of IMAA, perhaps by preventing the fusion protein from reaching prevacuolar compartments. To find out if the luminal domain of VSRs could have an influence on the plasma membrane localization of the reporter, we made a fusion protein of the citrine fluorescent protein and the full-length receptor. We positioned the fluorescent reporter between the signal peptide and the rest of the coding sequence of the Arabidopsis homolog At VSR4 (the closest homolog of pea BP80). This chimera should be functional because a similar construct was able to bind its ligand aleurain in vivo as shown by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (CITATION). The fusion citrine-AtVSR4 was transiently expressed in tobacco epidermal cells, and its distribution was observed after 72 h of expression. As shown in Figure 5, citrine-AtVSR4 accumulated in dots (Figure 5A) and also in the plasma membrane (Figure 5B) but not in the ER (Figure 5C, n indicates the nucleus). The partitioning of fluorescence among the dots, the plasma membrane, and the vacuole was similar to what was found for the PS1 fusion protein. Indeed, the fluorescence intensity in the plasma membrane reached ~30% while it represented roughly 20% without the luminal domain of the receptor (Figure 2E, PS1). We then addressed the nature of the dots by coexpressing citrine-AtVSR4 with a CFP version of PS1. As shown in Figure 5D, both fusion proteins colocalized. This result indicates that a potentially functional receptor can also be found in the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] We next transformed Arabidopsis plants with the citrine-AtVSR4 chimera. We obtained six fluorescent lines that all presented a dominant spot-like labeling as shown in the root apex (Figure 5E). In addition, we observed in all plants additional labeling of the plasma membrane. This plasma membrane labeling was not detectable in root apex cells but increased gradually along the root's longitudinal axis to be clearly visible in the medium part of the root (Figure 5F) and was dominant in the upper part of the root (Figure 5G). In two plants out of six, we could barely detect any dot labeling in cells from the upper region of the root (plants G and H). Since citrine-AtVSR4 is expressed using a 35S promoter, as a control we determined by immunoblotting the level of protein in comparison to the native receptor. We found similar quantities of the fusion and the native proteins (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), indicating that the fluorescent chimera is not massively overexpressed. We took advantage of the exclusive plasma localization of citrine-AtVSR4 in the upper root cells to examine the dynamics of its endocytosis and exocytosis. We applied brefeldin A (BFA), a fungal metabolite used to inhibit vesicular trafficking at the exocytosis/secretion level, in presence of the protein biosynthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. In Arabidopsis root cells, BFA treatment leads to the intracellular accumulation of endocytic material in so-called BFA compartments. Plasma membrane proteins that undergo BFA-sensitive endocytic recycling accumulate in these compartments. Since BFA experiments are usually performed with cells close to the root apex, we performed a control experiment on the upper root cells expressing the plasma membrane fusion protein LTi6a-GFP (CITATION). As shown on Figure 6B, upper root cells form typical LTi6a-GFP–containing BFA compartments after BFA treatment as described in apex cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We therefore performed the same treatment on citrine-AtVSR4–expressing roots and found a clear accumulation of fluorescence in BFA bodies (Figure 6A). Interestingly, while an important fraction of LTi6a-GFP remained at the plasma membrane after BFA treatment, we observed a strong decrease to full disappearance of plasma membrane labeling for citrine-AtVSR4 (Figure 6A, arrow). Since cycloheximide is depleting the cells in newly synthesized proteins, we controlled that labeling of citrine-AtVSR4 was stable along the duration of the experiment by treatment with cycloheximide alone (Figure 6C). The accumulation of citrine-AtVSR4 in BFA compartments together with a decrease of plasma membrane labeling indicates that the receptor undergoes endocytosis. In contrast with the LTi6a-GFP control, we also observed a faster accumulation of citrine-AtVSR4 in BFA compartments (10 min of BFA treatment compared with 60 min for Lti6a-GFP). We next tested the ability of the receptor to participate in exocytosis by washing off the BFA in presence of cycloheximide. As shown on Figures 6D and 6E, BFA compartments visible before washing (Figure 6D) disappeared after removal of BFA, while plasma membrane labeling was recovered (Figure 6E). This indicates that the receptor can traffic from internal compartments to the plasma membrane. In conclusion, plasma membrane–localized citrine-AtVSR4 undergoes BFA-sensitive exo- and endocytic cycling.
!~MM~! The coding sequence for GFP-PS1 was described previously (CITATION) and contains the GFP reporter followed by the transmembrane and the cytosolic domains of pea (Pisum sativum) BP80 (CITATION). We used the previously described GFP6 (CITATION) with the double mutation F64L and S65T (CITATION). A SalI site was created at the fusion between the GFP and BP80 coding sequences with no change in either one of the two protein sequences, and a SacI site was added at the level of the stop codon. The resulting coding sequence at the fusion is MDELYKSTWAAF where the underlined K, preceding the transmembrane domain (italic), is shared by GFP and BP80 sequences. Point mutations, changing chosen amino acids to Ala, were introduced in the cytosolic sequence of BP80 by overlapping PCR. The resulting PCR fragments were verified by sequencing and used to substitute the original sequence using SalI and SacI sites. This generated nine new constructs coding for proteins with one, two, or three altered amino acids. The constructs were named according to the point mutations introduced at the level of the cytosolic domain of pea BP80: E604A, IMAA (I608A+M609A), Y612A, D616A, E620A, Y612A+E604A, IMAA+Y612A Y612A+D616A, and Y612A+E620A. For easier comparison with published data (CITATION), these numbers correspond to the positions of targeted amino acids in reference to the sequence of the Arabidopsis thaliana homolog VSR3. All constructs were finally transferred into the binary vector pVKH18En6 for transient expression under the control of the strong 35S promoter (CITATION). A fusion of the citrine sequence (CITATION) with the full-length sequence of Arabidopsis VSR4 was made by inserting the reporter between the signal peptide and the sequence of the mature At VSR4 by creating a PstI in 5′ and a SpeI in 3′ junctions. The resulting fusion was cloned into the Gateway vector pK2GW7 under the control of a 35S promoter. The ERD2-CFP construct was previously described in CITATION. Aleu-GFP was previously described (CITATION), and a CFP version was made by replacing the GFP6 with an enhanced CFP sequence. The resulting aleu-CFP carries the signal peptide of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) chitinase and the vacuolar sorting propeptide from petunia (Petunia hybrida) aleurain (RTANFADENPIRQVVSDSFHELES) fused to the sequence of the reporter. For transient expression in tobacco leaves, 3- to 4-week-old plants were used. The construct carried by the binary vector was introduced into plant cells via infiltration of a transformed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 p2260 as described previously (CITATION). The Agrobacterium suspension was inoculated at a density of OD600 = 0.3 in the lower epidermis after making a small lesion to facilitate the infiltration. Plants were kept in the dark during expression to allow optimal visualization of vacuolar labeling. We observed the fluorescence 24 to 72 h after transient expression in tobacco epidermal cells from a small leaf piece cut off the plant and mounted in water between slide and cover slip. Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) was transformed with the floral dip method (CITATION) using the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 p2260. We used either a Leica TCS sp2 (Platform for Cell Imaging of Haute-Normandie PRIMACEN) or an inverse 1 axiovert 200M Zeiss/LSM 510 META confocal microscope (Montpellier RIO imaging platform). For imaging of the coexpression of CFP and GFP6, we used a sequential mode with the 458- and 488-nm laser excitation lines from this microscope. In more detail, the 458- and 488-nm lines were alternatively switched on to detect the CFP fluorescence (from 460 to 485 nm) and the GFP6 fluorescence (from 509 to 602 nm), respectively. The laser power was set to the minimum required for a sharp but not saturating signal, and appropriate controls were made to ensure there was no bleed-through from one channel to the other. That is, we ensured that the signal collected for one fluorochrome remains unchanged when the laser line used to excite the second fluorochrome was switched off. Images were mounted using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 software. Fluorescence was analyzed using the software provided with the confocal microscope (Leica confocal software 2.5). We aimed to obtain quantitative data on the distribution of fluorescence in three main subcellular locations named punctate structures, plasma membrane, and vacuole. Prior to quantification, we controlled that the fusion protein had reached its final destination by the absence of ER labeling in a confocal section through the nucleus. We first acquired a z-series of transformed cells, with a 1-μm z-step. Laser power was set manually for each single cell at the most fluorescent section to get the maximum signal but just below the saturation level. This setting ensures that the fluorescence signal is optimal but linear and comparable within different sections of a given cell. Regions of interest (ROIs) were then drawn manually at different locations and in different sections of the z-series. ROIs were drawn to contain only fluorescent signal from the subcellular location chosen: punctate structure, plasma membrane, or vacuole content. The mean intensity of fluorescence was measured for each ROI. This measurement was repeated at least five times for one cell, within different z-sections. We repeated measurements on 6 to 10 z-series coming from three independent transient expressions. The relative distribution of signal within spots, vacuole, and plasma membrane was then expressed setting arbitrarily 100% as being the sum of the three types of intensity measured. Arabidospis plants (Columbia) expressing Pro35S:citrine-AtVSR4 (this study) or LTi6a-GFP (CITATION) were grown for a week on plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium. Drugs were applied by transferring 1-week-old plantlets from the plate on a drop of diluted chemicals. BFA (Sigma-Aldrich) and cycloheximide (Sigma-Aldrich) were both used at a concentration of 50 μM for times indicated in Results (10 to 60 min). Dilution was made freshly from a 1000× stock solution in DMSO. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: U79958 for pea BP80, At2g14720 for VSR4, At2g14740 for VSR3, and At3g52850 for VSR1/At ELP. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression of PS1 Fusion Protein in Tobacco Plants. Supplemental Figure 2. Arabidopsis Stably Expressing the Construct Citrine-AtVSR4 Produce the Fusion Protein in a Similar Amount Than the Native Homolog. Supplemental Methods. Immunolabeling Analysis. Supplemental References.
