!~ABS~! Recently, a number of two LIM-domain containing proteins (LIMs) have been reported to trigger the formation of actin bundles, a major higher-order cytoskeletal assembly. Here, we analyzed the six Arabidopsis thaliana LIM proteins. Promoter-β-glucuronidase reporter studies revealed that WLIM1, WLIM2a, and WLIM2b are widely expressed, whereas PLIM2a, PLIM2b, and PLIM2c are predominantly expressed in pollen. LIM-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions all decorated the actin cytoskeleton and increased actin bundle thickness in transgenic plants and in vitro, although with different affinities and efficiencies. Remarkably, the activities of WLIMs were calcium and pH independent, whereas those of PLIMs were inhibited by high pH and, in the case of PLIM2c, by high [Ca2+]. Domain analysis showed that the C-terminal domain is key for the responsiveness of PLIM2c to pH and calcium. Regulation of LIM by pH was further analyzed in vivo by tracking GFP-WLIM1 and GFP-PLIM2c during intracellular pH modifications. Cytoplasmic alkalinization specifically promoted release of GFP-PLIM2c but not GFP-WLIM1, from filamentous actin. Consistent with these data, GFP-PLIM2c decorated long actin bundles in the pollen tube shank, a region of relatively low pH. Together, our data support a prominent role of Arabidopsis LIM proteins in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization and dynamics in sporophytic tissues and pollen.
!~RES~! According to a recent wide-range phylogenetic analysis, the six Arabidopsis LIM genes have been renamed WLIM1 (At1g10200), WLIM2a (At2g39900), WLIM2b (At3g55770), PLIM2a (At2g45800), PLIM2b (At1g01780), and PLIM2c (At3g61230) (CITATION). The possibility that individual Arabidopsis LIMs have specific functions in specific tissues or cell types due to nonoverlapping expression patterns was examined in Arabidopsis plants expressing the GUS reporter gene under the control of individual LIM gene 5′upstream sequences (ProLIM). Preliminary RNA gel blot analysis shows expression of all three WLIMs in a wide range of organs, including roots, leaves, stem, flowers, and siliques (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). By contrast, PLIM transcripts were predominantly detected in flowers. GUS histochemical assays confirmed and refined these data (Figure 1). Indeed, ProWLIM1-GUS and ProWLIM2b-GUS expression was high in virtually all organs and tissues, including root, stem, leaf, and apical bud tissues (Figures 1A to 1D and 1I to 1L). WLIM2a promoter activity was also strong in roots and leaf vasculature but resulted in rather weak staining in other leaf tissues (Figures 1E to 1H). Significant expression of the three ProWLIM-GUS fusions was detected in floral tissues, including peduncle, pedicels, pistils, and stamen filaments (Figures 1C, 1D, 1G, 1H, 1K, and 1L). However, no (ProWLIM1) or only a faint signal (ProWLIM2a and ProWLIM2b) could be detected in pollen grains, even after long staining periods (>15 h; Figures 1D, 1H, and 1L). By contrast, the three ProPLIM-GUS fusions exhibited prominent expression in pollen grains (Figures 1O, 1P, 1S, 1T, 1W, and 1X). Particularly high expression levels of PLIMs were indicated by a fast (<30 min) and intense staining. ProPLIM2c-GUS expression exclusively appeared in pollen (Figures 1U to 1X). A weak GUS staining was sometimes (four out of nine lines) observed in leaves for Pro-PLIM2a (Figure 1M), and PLIM2b promoter activity was regularly detected in roots and leaf vasculature (Figures 1Q and 1R). Together, these results are in good agreement with the analysis of publicly available microarray data (see Supplemental Figures 1B and 1C online). Indeed, much higher signal intensities were detected for WLIMs than for PLIMs in vegetative tissues (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), whereas the situation was inverted in pollen (seeSupplemental Figure 1C online). In addition, PLIM2b was the PLIM subfamily member exhibiting the highest expression level in vegetative tissues (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). The strong upregulation of the three PLIMs in tricellular and mature pollen grains suggests that PLIM activity is required during the late stages of pollen development and during pollen germination. [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, our data provide strong evidence for the separation of Arabidopsis LIMs into two subfamilies with different, to some extent complementary, expression patterns. WLIM1, WLIM2a, and WLIM2b are widely expressed in most sporophytic tissues with no or very weak expression in pollen, whereas PLIM2a, PLIM2b, and PLIM2c are predominantly and abundantly expressed in pollen grains. Two tobacco and one lily LIM have been previously reported to interact with the actin cytoskeleton in live cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The possibility that all six members of the Arabidopsis LIM family display a similar activity was examined in transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively express individual LIMs fused to GFP (GFP-LIMs). Figure 2 shows typical confocal microscopy images obtained for different cell types, including leaf epidermal, root, and root hair cells. All six GFP-LIMs associated with a cytoplasmic filamentous network (Figures 2A to 2R) similar to the one revealed by the fimbrin-derived actin cytoskeleton marker GFP-ABD2-GFP (CITATION; Figures 2S to 2U). This network was confirmed to be the actin cytoskeleton by both rhodamine-phalloidin colabeling and latrunculin B depolymerizing experiments (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Comparison of confocal images suggested that PLIMs interact less efficiently with the cytoskeleton than WLIMs. Indeed, most of GFP-PLIM–expressing cells exhibited a relatively high level of diffuse cytoplasmic fluorescence, whereas GFP-WLIMs more sharply decorated the cytoskeleton (cf. Figures 2A to 2C to 2D to 2F, 2G to 2I to 2J to 2L, and 2M to 2O to 2P to 2R). Differences in the subcellular distribution of GFP-PLIMs and GFP-WLIMs were further characterized by quantifying the fraction of cytoplasmic fluorescence associated with the cytoskeleton (FCFAC) in GFP-PLIM2c, GFP-WLIM1, and GFP-ABD2-GFP (control) expressing cells (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). In primary root cells, ~53% ± 5% of the fluorescent signal due to GFP-PLIM2c concentrated on the cytoskeleton. In root hairs, the FCFAC dropped to 31% ± 5%, indicating that roughly 70% of the GFP-PLIM2c population was unbound in the cytoplasm. By contrast, GFP-WLIM1 and GFP-ABD2-GFP predominantly associated with the cytoskeleton, as indicated by FCFAC values of roughly 70 and 90% in both types of cells, respectively. Immunoblot analysis performed with an anti-GFP antibody confirmed that GFP-WLIM1 and GFP-PLIM2c were expressed at similar levels in the Arabidopsis lines used in the above analyses, ruling out that results were due to differences in transgene expression levels (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). [[FIGURE]] Remarkably, no obvious developmental or morphological phenotype was noticed in LIM-overexpressing transgenic plants. However, confocal microscopy images revealed substantial modifications of the actin cytoskeleton organization. Indeed, actin bundles were usually thicker and less abundant than in control cells (cf. Figures 2A to 2R to 2S to 2U). These observations are consistent with those previously reported in the case of tobacco WLIM1 overexpression (CITATION, CITATION) and support that all six LIMs promote cross-linking of AFs into thick bundles. Although this study focuses on the cytoplasmic functions of plant LIMs, it is noteworthy that, contrary to GFP-ABD2-GFP, GFP-LIMs also accumulated within the nucleus, suggesting potential nuclear functions for LIMs. To date, actin regulatory activities have been biochemically demonstrated for only two plant LIMs (i.e., tobacco WLIM1 [CITATION, CITATION] and lily LIM1 [CITATION]). Here, we assessed the actin binding, -stabilizing, and -bundling activities of the whole Arabidopsis LIM family. CITATION recently reported that LIM1 preferentially binds AFs under low pH and low [Ca2+]. We therefore initiated biochemical investigations using similar conditions. The ability of LIMs to directly bind to AFs was evaluated by high-speed cosedimentation assays. Recombinant LIMs were produced in Escherichia coli and purified by affinity chromatography. AFs (4 μM) were copolymerized with individual LIMs (4 μM) and centrifuged at 100,000g, and the resulting pellet and supernatant fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (Figure 3A). Control experiments showed that recombinant LIMs do not sediment significantly when centrifuged alone (Figure 3A, top gel series). In the presence of AFs, the six LIMs accumulated in the pellet fraction, indicating that they directly interact with AFs (Figure 3A, bottom gel series). However, the relative amount of pelleted LIM was slightly lower in the case of the three PLIMs, suggesting differences in affinity for AFs. This possibility was further investigated by conducting additional high-speed cosedimentation assays with increasing concentrations of LIM proteins and calculating apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) values as previously described by CITATION, CITATION) (Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). In the conditions used (pH 6.2 and 100 nM Ca2+), the three WLIMs displayed relatively high and similar affinities for AFs as indicated by apparent Kd values of 0.4 ± 0.2 μM (WLIM1), 0.4 ± 0.2 μM (WLIM2a), and 0.5 ± 0.3 (n = 3). Noticeably, these values were significantly lower than those calculated for PLIMs, which ranged from 1.3 ± 0.2 μM (PLIM2a) to 1.7 ± 0.9 μM (PLIM2b). Affinities of the Six Arabidopsis LIM Proteins for AFs [[FIGURE]] The effect of LIM binding on AF stability was examined in depolymerization assays. Pyrene-labeled AFs (4 μM) were copolymerized with individual LIMs (6 μM) and subsequently subjected to depolymerization by diluting the samples to an actin concentration below the critical concentration (i.e., 0.2 μM). Depolymerization kinetics were recorded by monitoring fluorescence intensity over time (Figure 3B). In the absence of LIMs (actin alone), AFs promptly depolymerized, as shown by the rapid decline of fluorescence. By contrast, in the presence of individual LIMs, the AF depolymerization rate was markedly decreased. Consistent with the Kd values calculated above, the two LIM subfamilies exhibited different stabilization capabilities. Whereas WLIMs fully stabilized AFs, as indicated by stable fluorescence curves, PLIMs only reduced the AF depolymerization rate. Remarkably, the three members of each LIM subfamily displayed roughly identical stabilizing capabilities. Finally, the ability of each LIM to cross-link AFs was assessed using low-speed cosedimentation assays. AFs (4 μM) were copolymerized with individual LIMs (6 μM) and centrifuged at 12,500g, and the resulting pellet and supernatant fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (Figure 3C). In the absence of LIM (actin alone), most of the actin was detected in the supernatant fraction. By contrast, in the presence of individual LIMs, actin massively sedimented, indicating the presence of high-order actin structures. The latter were directly examined by fluorescence light microscopy after rhodamine-phalloidin labeling and identified as actin bundles (Figure 3D). In conclusion, all six Arabidopsis LIMs function as true ABPs (i.e., they directly interact with AFs). In addition, they display autonomous actin-stabilizing and -bundling activities. However, differences are also pointed out by data (the three WLIMs exhibiting a higher affinity for AFs than the three PLIMs). The potential regulation of LIM activities by pH and Ca2+ were assessed by focusing on one member of each LIM subfamily, namely, WLIM1 and PLIM2c. Both proteins were first subjected to a series of actin depolymerization assays conducted at three different pH conditions, 6.2, 6.8, and 7.4, and in the presence of low or high amounts of free Ca2+, corresponding to ~100 nM and ~5 μM, respectively. For each pH and [Ca2+] condition, different concentrations of WLIM1 and PLIM2c (ranging from 1 to 10 μM, concentrations before sample dilution) have been tested, whereas the concentration of actin before dilution was set at 4 μM (Figures 4A to 4L). Under low pH and low [Ca2+], both WLIM1 and PLIM2c stabilized AFs in a concentration-dependent manner (Figures 4A and 4G). Data confirmed the higher stabilizing capability of WLIM1. Indeed, 1 μM of WLIM1 was sufficient to slow down the AF depolymerization rate, whereas 3 μM of PLIM2c were required to produce a significant effect. In addition, full stabilization of AFs was achieved for WLIM1 concentrations ≥6 μM, whereas it required >10 μM of PLIM2c. [[FIGURE]] Increasing pH from 6.2 to 6.8 or 7.4 caused the loss of PLIM2c stabilizing activity, as indicated by depolymerization curves similar to the controls (AFs alone; Figures 4H and 4I). At higher pH, even the highest PLIM2c concentrations failed to slow down AF depolymerization, indicating a strong pH-dependent inhibition. By contrast, WLIM1 preserved prominent activity at both intermediate and high pH values (Figures 4B and 4C). Furthermore, its stabilizing efficiency appeared unmodified by pH increase since, in all pH conditions, maximal AF stabilization was observed for WLIM1 concentrations ≥6 μM. To check whether high pH values can also inhibit the actin-stabilizing activity of AF-bound PLIM2c, AFs (4 μM) were first copolymerized with PLIM2c (8 μM) in optimal conditions (i.e., pH 6.0 and 100 nM of free Ca2+), and the pH was subsequently shifted by the addition of alkalizing buffers of increasing strength (final pH 6.0, 6.2, 6.4, 6.8, and 7.4). Supplemental Figure 5A online shows that the rate of depolymerization increased proportionally to the shift of pH applied, indicating that pH can inactivate PLIM2c when the latter is associated with AFs. By contrast, the ability of WLIM1 to stabilize AFs was preserved whatever the shift of pH applied (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Additional depolymerization experiments were performed at high [Ca2+] levels (Figures 4D to 4F and 4J to 4L). At pH 6.2, the high [Ca2+] significantly reduced the actin-stabilizing capability of PLIM2c (Figure 4J). However, this inhibition was less strong than that of pH, as indicated by the weak but significant levels of stabilization observed for the highest concentrations of PLIM2c (Figure 4J versus 4G). In higher pH conditions (i.e., pH 6.8 and 7.4), high [Ca2+] showed no visible effect, since PLIM2c activity remained turned off (Figures 4K and 4L). The depolymerization curves obtained for WLIM1 were similar to those obtained at low [Ca2+], indicating that WLIM1 was not responsive to Ca2+ (Figures 4D to 4F versus 4A to 4C). LIM-induced stabilization most likely results from the cross-linking of AFs. Thus, from the above data, one might anticipate that PLIM2c bundling activity is negatively regulated by high pH and/or high [Ca2+], whereas the one of WLIM1 is not. To confirm these assumptions, low-speed (12,500g) cosedimentation assays were conducted in different pH and [Ca2+] conditions using a fixed concentration of actin (4 μM) and increasing concentrations of LIM (0.5 to 10 μM; Figures 4M to 4R). To make comparisons easier, SDS-PAGE gels were scanned after staining, and the respective amounts of actin in the pellet and in supernatant fractions were quantified using ImageJ software. As expected, WLIM1 induced actin sedimentation in a concentration-dependent manner in all tested pH and [Ca2+] combinations (Figures 4M to 4R, white bars). Lack of responsiveness to pH and Ca2+ was further demonstrated by the fact that maximal sedimentation (75 to 80% of total actin in the pellet fraction) was invariably achieved for WLIM1 concentrations ≥2 μM. PLIM2c also induced efficient cross-linking of AFs under low pH and [Ca2+] conditions (Figures 4M to 4R, black bars). However, maximal sedimentation required ~6 μM of PLIM2c, confirming its weaker activity compared with WLIM1 (Figure 4M, black versus white bars). Higher pH values (i.e., 6.8 and 7.4) fully inhibited PLIM2c cross-linking activity, as shown by the relative amounts of actin in the pellet similar to those measured in controls (actin alone, ~20%; Figures 4O to 4R, black bars). Consistent with the depolymerization data, high [Ca2+] partially inhibited PLIM2c activity at pH 6.2, as shown by the reduced but significant amounts of actin sedimented in the presence of high PLIM2c concentrations (Figure 4N, black bars). Direct observation of AFs polymerized alone (Figure 4S) or in the presence of WLIM1 (Figure 4T) or PLIM2c (Figure 4U) confirmed the above data. Indeed, WLIM1 triggered the formation of actin bundles in all pH and [Ca2+] combinations tested (Figure 4S versus 4T), whereas PLIM2c only induced similar structures under both low pH and low [Ca2+] (Figure 4S versus 4U). As expected, PLIM2c bundling activity was partially inhibited by high [Ca2+], as shown by the rare bundles observed at pH 6.2 and 5 μM Ca2+ (Figure 4U, bottom left image). In conclusion, WLIM1 and PLIM2c respond differently to pH and [Ca2+] in vitro. WLIM1 actin regulatory activities are not regulated by pH and [Ca2+], whereas those of PLIM2c are inhibited by pH values ≥ 6.8 and/or high [Ca2+]. To test whether responsiveness to pH and Ca2+ is a specific property of Arabidopsis PLIM subfamily members, additional low-speed cosedimentation assays were performed using 4 μM actin and 6 μM each Arabidopsis LIM (Figure 5). Similarly to WLIM1, WLIM2a and WLIM2b induced actin sedimentation in a pH- and Ca2+-independent manner. Indeed, ~80% of actin were pelleted in all the combinations of pH and [Ca2+] tested (Figures 5A to 5F). Similarly to PLIM2c, PLIM2a and PLIM2b were unable to promote actin sedimentation at relatively high pH values (i.e., pH 6.8 and pH 7.4) (Figures 5C to 5F). However, both PLIM2a and PLIM2b efficiently cross-linked AFs at low pH (6.2) whatever the [Ca2+], indicating that they are not responsive to Ca2+ (Figures 5A and 5B). [[FIGURE]] In summary, the three WLIM subfamily members cross-link AFs in a pH- and Ca2+-independent manner. By contrast, the cross-linking activity of the three PLIM subfamily members is inhibited by pH values ≥6.8. Finally, PLIM2c is the only Arabidopsis LIM to clearly respond to Ca2+, its activity being downregulated by high [Ca2+]. The most divergent domain in size and in amino acid sequence between WLIM and PLIM family members is the C-terminal domain (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Noticeably, this domain is longer and contains a significantly higher number of acidic residues in PLIMs than in WLIMs. To test whether the C-terminal domain is involved in the specific responsiveness of PLIMs to pH (and calcium in the case of PLIM2c), we generated C-terminal deleted versions of PLIM2c and WLIM1 (control), namely, PLIM2cΔCt and WLIM1ΔCt, and studied their actin-stabilizing and -bundling activities in different conditions of pH (6.2 and 7.4) and Ca2+ (100 nM and 5 μM). Our data indicate that, in contrast with PLIM2c, whose activities are inhibited by high pH and/or high [Ca2+], PLIM2cΔCt efficiently stabilized and cross-linked AFs in all the conditions tested (Figure 6). Indeed, the deletion of the C-terminal domain is sufficient to abolish the ability of PLIM2c to respond to pH and calcium variations. In addition, WLIM1 and WLIM1ΔCt displayed strong and nearly identical activities whatever the pH and [Ca2+], supporting that the deletion of the C-terminal domain is not detrimental to the basal activity of WLIM proteins. [[FIGURE]] The above biochemical data strongly suggest that cytoplasmic pH acts as a regulator of PLIM activities. This hypothesis is consistent with the existence of intracellular pH gradients in growing pollen tubes and the concept that pH variations regulate the actin cytoskeleton organization and dynamics through the in/activation of different classes of ABPs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, pH-specific monitoring of PLIM actin regulatory activities in the context of live cells requires direct demonstration. In that attempt, we artificially modulated the cytoplasmic pH of Arabidopsis cells and analyzed the resulting effect of such manipulations on the ability of GFP-WLIM1 and GFP-PLIM2c fusion proteins to interact with the actin cytoskeleton. Briefly, cell culture lines were produced from transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-WLIM1, GFP-PLIM2c, and the actin cytoskeleton marker GFP-ABD2-GFP (control). Prior to pH treatment, cells were immobilized on polylysine-coated cover slips and incubated in standard culture medium supplemented with the ratiometric pH-sensitive dye SNARF-5F. Both concentration and incubation time of the dye were optimized for Arabidopsis cells to 5 μM and 30 min, respectively. The pH dye most frequently diffused in a relatively homogenous manner into the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Figures 7A to 7F). The average cytoplasmic pH was estimated to be 7.06 ± 0.06 (n = 15). Occasionally, the dye also penetrated the central vacuole. As expected, the vacuole was found to be the most acidic cellular compartment, with pH values ≤ 6.0 (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). To decrease or increase the cytoplasmic pH, cells were incubated in buffers containing the cell-permeant weak acid sodium propionate (pH adjusted to 6.2) or the cell-permeant weak base ammonium chloride (pH adjusted to 7.4; CITATION). Confocal acquisitions of the pH-sensitive dye and of the GFP-fused proteins were collected just before and 2 min after the application of pH buffers. It should be noted that, after longer incubation times in pH buffers, the evolution of pH frequently reversed, although the recovery was much slower than the initial shift (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Figure 7 presents typical results obtained with the three cell lines of interest. Successful modifications of pH were confirmed by pseudocolored ratio images, and the cytoplasmic pH was found to reach values close to those of pH buffers (i.e., 6.2 ± 0.1 or 7.4 ± 0.1). The effect of pH modifications on the ability of each GFP fusion protein to interact with the actin cytoskeleton was carefully analyzed by quantifying the FCFAC and by comparing this value before and after pH treatment (RFCFAC = FCFAC t2'/FCFACt0'). Lowering the pH had no significant effects on the actin binding activity of GFP-WLIM1, GFP-PLIM2c, and GFP-ABD2-GFP, as indicated by direct comparison of confocal images (Figures 7A to 7C) and RFCFAC values close to 1 (Figure 7G). By contrast, pH increase dramatically weakened the binding of GFP-PLIM2c to the cytoskeleton, as shown by prominent diffuse fluorescent signal (Figure 7F). Massive release of GFP-PLIM2c from the actin network upon pH elevation is supported by a calculated RFCFAC value of 0.29 ± 0.15, indicating that ~70% of the fluorescence initially associated with the cytoskeleton has been displaced toward the cytoplasmic diffuse pool. Contrary to GFP-PLIM2c, GFP-ABD2-GFP and GFP-WLIM1 remained largely associated with the actin cytoskeleton upon cytoplasmic pH elevation (Figures 7D and 7E). However, quantitative analyses revealed a slight modification in the GFP-WLIM1 subcellular distribution (Figure 7G). Indeed, we calculated a RFCFAC value of 0.82 ± 0.075, indicating an 18% decrease of the cytoskeleton-bound GFP-WLIM1 population upon pH elevation. By contrast, the subcellular distribution of GFP-ABD2-GFP was unaffected, as indicated by RFCFAC = 0.98 ± 0.029. However, considering the relatively weak effect of high pH on WLIM1 subcellular localization, its biological significance remains uncertain. Importantly, rhodamine-phalloidin colabeling experiments confirmed the persistence of a filamentous actin cytoskeleton after increase of cytoplasmic pH in GFP-PLIM2–expressing cells (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). The reversibility of the process was assessed by successive treatments of cells with the alkalizing and acidifying buffers. As shown in Figures 8A to 8D, GFP-PLIM2c efficiently dissociated and reassociated with the cytoskeleton, indicating that its actin binding ability was not irreversibly damaged by elevated pH conditions. A control experiment conducted with GFP-ABD2-GFP–expressing cells confirmed that the predominant cytoskeletal localization of GFP-ABD2-GFP is not significantly affected during similar pH treatment (Figures 8E to 8H). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine the cellular distribution of PLIM2c in live growing pollen tubes of Arabidopsis, we produced transgenic plants expressing a GFP-PLIM2c fusion protein under the control of the PLIM2c promoter. Analyses performed on heterozygous plants revealed that transgenic and wild-type nonfluorescent pollen grains germinate and elongate with very similar rates (i.e., 3.56 ± 0.65 μm·s−1 and 3.41 ± 0.76 μm·s−1, respectively; n ≥ 10), indicating that the recombinant protein does not significantly disturb pollen tube physiology. Figure 9A shows that GFP-PLIM2c interacted with a population of long actin bundles running along the pollen tube shank. Time-lapse imaging revealed that these bundles are highly dynamic and do not penetrate subapical and apical regions (see Supplemental Movie 1 online). Interestingly, GFP-PLIM2c occasionally decorates a structure in the subapical region resembling the cortical actin fringe, which has been described by several studies (e.g., CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Figure 9B; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana lines described in this study were produced in Landsberg erecta for ProPLIM2c-eGFP-PLIM2c and in Columbia-0 ecotype for all other lines. Plants were greenhouse cultivated and propagated on soil under 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles. Transformations were performed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 using the floral dip method (CITATION). For selection, seeds were surface sterilized and plated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar medium (MS255; Duchefa), pH 5.8, supplemented with 1% sucrose and with 50 mg/L of kanamycin or 15 mg/L of hygromycin. After a 3-d stratification at 4°C in the dark, seeds were incubated in a growth chamber at 22°C under 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycles. Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were generated by transferring 10-d-old seedlings onto a callus-inducing medium (Murashige and Skoog agar medium, 200 mg/L KH2PO4, 1 mg/L thiamine, 0.05 g/L myo-inositol, 20 g/L sucrose, and 1 mg/L 2,4-D, pH 5.7). Plates were wrapped in foil and kept in the dark at 22°C for 4 to 6 weeks. Calli were transferred to 40 mL liquid callus-inducing medium and maintained in the dark at 22°C with gentle agitation (100 rpm). Cells were propagated once a week by transferring 30 mL of 7-d-old suspension to 60 mL of fresh medium. Arabidopsis LIM coding sequences (cds) were amplified from clones obtained from the ABRC (pUNI clones U18145 for At3g55770 and U50754 forAt2g45800; CITATION) and Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique–Centre National de Ressources Génomiques Végétales (BX817923 for At1g01780 and BX825681 for At3g61230) or from a homemade seedling cDNA library (At1g10200 and At2g39900) and cloned in the pENTR vector. Binary vectors harboring pro35S-GFP-LIM fusions were constructed by transferring LIM cds from pENTR-LIM vectors by Gateway cloning (Invitrogen) into pMDC43 (CITATION). For each Arabidopsis LIM gene, a promoter region consisting of a minimal sequence of 900 bp upstream the translational start site was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA and subsequently cloned into the binary vector pGPTVII.Kan (CITATION) to obtain proLIM-GUS. LIM coding sequences were cloned into pMDC43 (CITATION) to obtain proCaMV35S-GFP-LIM. A ProPLIM2c-eGFP-PLIM2c-TermNos cassette was assembled in pUC18 and transferred in the binary vector pGPTVII.bar (CITATION). Detailed cloning procedures and primer sequences can be found in Supplemental Methods online and Table 1, respectively. The F-actin reporter line, expressing the actin binding domain 2 of Arabidopsis fimbrin 1 fused to GFP at both C and N termini with GFP (GFP-ABD2-GFP; CITATION), was kindly provided by the group of Elison Blancaflor (The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation). GUS histochemical analyses of each reporter gene were performed on at least nine independent transgenic lines. Staining for GUS activity was performed for 12 to 15 h according to CITATION and on samples of various stages of development, including 7-d-old seedlings and 4-week-old seedlings and inflorescences. In the case of inflorescences, additional shorter staining periods (30 min to 1 h) were applied to confirm the high expression level of PLIM genes. After staining, samples were dehydrated by a series of ethanol washes and stored in 70% ethanol until observation at the binocular and light microscope (Leica DMI 6000B). Plants and cells expressing the GFP fusion proteins were imaged using a Zeiss LSM510 META confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a ×40 Plan-NeoFluar oil immersion objective (numerical aperture 1.3). GFP was detected by exciting samples at a wavelength of 488 nm and using a 505- to 530-nm band-pass emission filter. For rhodamine-phalloidin labeling experiments, a 543-nm excitation wavelength and a 560- to 615-nm band-pass emission filter were used. Confocal images were deconvolved using Huygens Essential image processing software package (Scientific Volume Imaging) and are shown as stacks of neighboring sections reconstructed in ImageJ (National Institutes of Health). SNARF-5F ratio imaging was performed in the META channel using a 543-nm excitation wavelength and a laser power of 7%. Emitted light was simultaneously collected with a dual channel of 560- to 600-nm (Ch1) and 625- to 665-nm (Ch2) bandwidth. To optimize signal detection, the photomultiplier gain was set over the range 60 to 70%. Ratio images were generated by dividing Ch2/Ch1 using the physiology module of LSM510 acquisition software. A 3 × 3 pixel median filter was applied to improve image quality, and final images were displayed with a rainbow look-up table. Quantification of the FCFAC in GFP-LIM– and GFP-ABD2-GFP–expressing cells was performed using Metamorph software (Molecular Devices) by adjusting the image threshold to eliminate most of the diffuse cytoplasmic fluorescence. The threshold has to be adjusted for each cell (in the range of ±10%) because the actin cytoskeleton organization and the associated intensity of fluorescence can slightly vary from one cell to another. The remaining integrated fluorescent signal was quantified and expressed as a percentage of the total cellular fluorescence (the nucleus was excluded). To avoid under- or overexposure problem during acquisition, the image intensity histogram was systematically checked, and acquisition settings were adjusted so that the fluorescent signal distributes within the 0 to 255 range (8-bit grayscale image). To estimate how artificial modifications of cytoplasmic pH influence GFP-LIM and GFP-ABD2-GFP interaction with the actin cytoskeleton, FCFAC values were measured before (t0’) and after 2 min (t2’) pH treatment, and FCFAC ratios (RFCFAC = FCFACt2’/FCFACt0’) were calculated. In the in vivo actin depolymerization experiments, Arabidopsis cells were mounted in an open observation chamber and imaged before and 1 h after addition of 100 μM cytoskeletal inhibitor latrunculin B (Sigma-Aldrich). Rhodamine-phalloidin labeling was performed in PME buffer (50 mM PIPES, 20 mM MgCl2, and 50 mM EGTA). For confocal analyses conducted with pollen, pollen grains were placed on microscope slides by dipping freshly dehiscent anthers onto pollen germination medium solidified with 0.5% (w/v) low-melting agarose (Duchefa). Pollen germination medium was modified from CITATION and consisted of 0.01% boric acid, 5 mM CaCl2, 5 mM Ca(NO3)2, 5 mM MgSO4, 5 mM KCl, and 18% (w/v) sucrose, pH 6.8 to 7.0. Pollen of T1 plants were used for pollen germination studies. Approximately 200 μL of Arabidopsis cell suspension culture was plated on a poly-l-lysine–coated cover slip. After removing the culture medium, cells were incubated in 1 mL of diluted ratiometric pH-sensitive dye SNARF-5F 5-(and-6)-carboxylic acid, acetoxymethyl ester, acetate (5 mM; Invitrogen) for 30 min in the dark at 22°C. Modification of the intracellular pH was achieved by incubating cells in 1 mL of callus-inducing medium supplemented with 30 mM ammonium chloride and 10 mM HEPES, pH 7.4 (alkalizing buffer), or with 30 mM sodium propionate and 10 mM MES, pH 6.2 (acidifying buffer). Confocal microscopy observations were performed just before pH buffer application and after 2, 4, and 6 min of treatment. In situ calibration was performed as recommended by CITATION using a combination of nigericin (5 μM) and valinomycin (2 μM) and in the presence of a high concentration of potassium ions. Reference pH buffers (half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium, 150 mM KCl, 30 mM NaCl, 25 mM HEPES, and 25 mM MES) were adjusted to a final pH of 6.2, 6.8, 7.0, 7.2, and 7.5. Cells were incubated 15 min in each pH buffer before imaging the SNARF-5F probe. A calibration curve was generated by calculating ratio values in cytoplasmic volumes of 50 μm3 using Metamorph Software (Molecular Devices). This curve was used to estimate the pH in nontreated cells and to control pH modifications induced by the alkalizing and acidifying buffers (n ≥ 10). Arabidopsis LIM cds were subcloned into the bacterial expression vector pQE-60 (Qiagen). Due to relatively low levels of expression in bacteria, Escherichia coli codon-optimized sequences have been generated for the three PLIMs (DNA2.0). This did not result in any modification of the predicted amino acid sequences for PLIMs. The deletion of the C-terminal domain of WLIM1 and PLIM2c for production of WLIM1ΔCt and PLIM2cΔCt recombinant proteins has been achieved by PCR using the specific primers CTAT1F2 + CT101 (WLIM1ΔCt) and CT65 + CT80 (PLIM2cΔCt) (see Supplemental Table 1 online). His6-tagged LIMs were expressed in M15[pREP4] bacteria and purified using a Ni-NTA resin following procedures described by the manufacturer (Qiagen). Purified proteins were concentrated in a centrifugal filter (Amicon), buffer exchanged (10 mM Tris-Cl, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM DTT, 50 μM ZnCl2, and 2 M urea, pH 6.9) using a 7 K molecular weight cutoff dialysis cassette (Pierce), and stored on ice. Prior to an experiment, proteins were preclarified at 150 000g and checked for correct molecular weight by SDS-PAGE analysis, and their concentration was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad) using BSA as standard. High- and low-speed cosedimentation assays were used to assess the actin binding and -crosslinking activities of Arabidopsis LIMs, respectively. In both cases, rabbit muscle actin (Cytoskeleton; concentration indicated in figures) was copolymerized with various concentrations of individual LIMs for 1 h in 50 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 1 mM ATP, and 0.5 mM DTT. Depending on the pH and [Ca2+] conditions tested, the reaction medium was buffered with either MES and PIPES, pH 6.2, or PIPES and Tris, pH 6.8 and 7.4, and was supplemented with either EGTA (low [Ca2+] conditions) or CaCl2 (high [Ca2+] conditions). Supplemental Table 2 online indicates the concentration of MES, PIPES, Tris, EGTA, and CaCl2 for each of the copolymerization conditions used. In high-speed experiments, samples were centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min to pellet AFs. The presence of LIM in the resulting supernatants (F-actin unbound fraction) and pellets (F-actin bound fraction) was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brillant Blue R (Sigma-Aldrich) staining. In low-speed experiments, samples were centrifuged at 12,500g for 30 min in a microcentrifuge to pellet high-order F-actin structures. The presence of actin in the resulting supernatants (noncross-linked AFs) and pellets (cross-linked AFs) was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brillant Blue R (Sigma-Aldrich) staining. In some experiments, the respective amounts of actin in pellet and supernatant fractions were quantified using ImageJ software. The presence of actin bundles in samples was checked by direct visualization using fluorescence microscopy. An aliquot of the copolymerized actin samples was labeled with 4 μM rhodamine-phalloidin (Sigma-Aldrich). One micromolar of sample was diluted in one drop of cityfluor (Agar Scientific) and applied to a cover slip coated with poly-l-lysine (0.01%). Images were recorded via confocal microscope using a pinhole set to produce thick (~2 μm) optical sections. Pyrene-labeled actin (4 μM, 30% pyrene-labeled; Cytoskeleton) was copolymerized with individual Arabidopsis LIMs in the same conditions as in cosedimentation assays. Depolymerization was induced by diluting samples to a final actin concentration of 0.2 μM. The decrease in pyrene fluorescence accompanying actin depolymerization was recorded over 200 s using a PTI QM-4 QuantaMaster fluorimeter. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL or Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: WLIM1 NM_100894.3 (At1g10200), WLIM2a NM_129548.3 (At2g39900), WLIM2b NM_001035791.1 (At3g55770), PLIM2a NM_001036468.2 (At2g45800), PLIM2b NM_100061.3 (At1g01780), and PLIM2c NM_115987.3 (At3g61230). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. RNA Gel Blot and Microarray Analyses of LIM Gene Expression in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 2. Arabidopsis LIMs Interact with the Actin Cytoskeleton in Arabidopsis Cells. Supplemental Figure 3. Fraction of Cytoplasmic Fluorescence Associated with the Actin Cytoskeleton in GFP-ABD2-GFP–, GFP-WLIM1–, and GFP-PLIM2c–Expressing Root and Root Hair Cells. Supplemental Figure 4. Examples of Data Used to Calculate the Apparent Equilibrium Dissociation Constant (Kd) Values Shown in Table 1. Supplemental Figure 5. Inactivation by pH of the Stabilizing Activity of AF-Bound PLIM2c. Supplemental Figure 6. Alignment of Arabidopsis LIM Protein Sequences. Supplemental Figure 7. Imaging of SNARF-5F in a GFP-PLIM2c–Expressing Arabidopsis Cell. Supplemental Figure 8. Cytoplasmic pH Recovery after Artificially Induced Acidification. Supplemental Figure 9. Persistence of a Prominent Actin Cytoskeleton after Increase of Cytoplasmic pH in GFP-PLIM2c–Expressing Cells. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotides Used in the Study. Supplemental Table 2. Concentrations of MES, PIPES, Tris, EGTA, and CaCl2 Used in the Different in Vitro Assays. Supplemental Movie 1. Time-Lapse Confocal Scanning Microscopy of a Growing Arabidopsis Pollen Tube Expressing GFP-PILM2c under the Control of the PLIM2c Promoter. Supplemental Movie 2. Time-Lapse Confocal Scanning Microscopy of a Growing Pollen Tube Showing the Interaction of GFP-PLIM2c with a Subapical Actin Fringe-Like Structure. Supplemental Methods. Detailed Cloning Procedures. Supplementary References.
