!~ABS~! As one of the most abundant polysaccharides on Earth, xylan will provide more than a third of the sugars for lignocellulosic biofuel production when using grass or hardwood feedstocks. Xylan is characterized by a linear β(1,4)-linked backbone of xylosyl residues substituted by glucuronic acid, 4-O-methylglucuronic acid or arabinose, depending on plant species and cell types. The biological role of these decorations is unclear, but they have a major influence on the properties of the polysaccharide. Despite the recent isolation of several mutants with reduced backbone, the mechanisms of xylan synthesis and substitution are unclear. We identified two Golgi-localized putative glycosyltransferases, GlucUronic acid substitution of Xylan (GUX)-1 and GUX2 that are required for the addition of both glucuronic acid and 4-O-methylglucuronic acid branches to xylan in Arabidopsis stem cell walls. The gux1 gux2 double mutants show loss of xylan glucuronyltransferase activity and lack almost all detectable xylan substitution. Unexpectedly, they show no change in xylan backbone quantity, indicating that backbone synthesis and substitution can be uncoupled. Although the stems are weakened, the xylem vessels are not collapsed, and the plants grow to normal size. The xylan in these plants shows improved extractability from the cell wall, is composed of a single monosaccharide, and requires fewer enzymes for complete hydrolysis. These findings have implications for our understanding of the synthesis and function of xylan in plants. The results also demonstrate the potential for manipulating and simplifying the structure of xylan to improve the properties of lignocellulose for bioenergy and other uses.
!~RES~! To discover unique GX biosynthetic enzymes, we searched for putative GTs that are coexpressed with known xylan synthesis proteins and that are colocalized with other polysaccharide synthesis enzymes in the Golgi apparatus. Approximately 450 characterized and putative GTs from Arabidopsis are categorized by homology into families in the CAZy database (CITATION). We clustered all of the Arabidopsis predicted GTs according to their coexpression in different plant organs (FIG-REF and Fig. S1. Several enzymes required for xylan synthesis were clustered with the secondary cell wall cellulose synthases (FIG-REF). Only two additional putative GTs, At3g18660 and At4g33330, are coexpressed with these xylan synthesis genes. For reasons outlined below, we now refer to them as GUX1 (At3g18660) and GUX2 (At4g33330). These GTs have previously been shown to be coexpressed with secondary wall synthesis enzymes (CITATION, CITATION). They are members of a subfamily of five enzymes belonging to CAZy family GT8 (CITATION) Fig. S2A). Closely related genes, PttGT8A, PttGT8B, and PttGT8C are expressed during wood formation in poplar (CITATION). However, GUX1 and GUX2 have previously been characterized as the starch initiation proteins PGSIP1 and PGSIP3 (CITATION). The proteins were predicted to localize to the chloroplast, a finding inconsistent with a role in secondary cell wall synthesis. Nevertheless, in a quantitative proteomic approach to identify proteins in the Golgi apparatus of Arabidopsis cell cultures, we showed that the closely related protein At1g77130/PGSIP2/GUX3 is Golgi localized (CITATION) (Fig. S3). This suggested that this family of five GT8 proteins might be Golgi localized and have a role in cell wall synthesis. Indeed, all five predicted proteins have a single N-terminal putative transmembrane domain, typical of Golgi-localized GTs (Fig. S2B). To clarify the subcellular localization, GUX1 and GUX2 proteins were fused to GFP and transiently expressed in Nicotiana tabacum. Both were found to colocalize with the Golgi sugar nucleotide transporter, GONST1 (FIG-REF), indicating that the proposed role in plastidic starch synthesis is unlikely. [[FIGURE]] To investigate a role for GUX1 and GUX2 in secondary cell wall polysaccharide biosynthesis, two independent T-DNA insertional mutant lines for each gene were identified (gux1-1, gux1-2, gux2-1, and gux2-2) and confirmed as transcriptional knockouts (Fig. S4 A and B). Cell wall alcohol-insoluble residue (AIR) was prepared from the basal stems of these plants, a tissue rich in secondary cell wall. The AIR was characterized with polysaccharide analysis by carbohydrate gel electrophoresis (PACE) using xylan-specific glycosylhydrolases (GHs) (CITATION). The AIR was first deesterified and solubilized with 4 M NaOH, and then digested to completion with excess GH11 β(1,4)-xylanase. Hydrolysis of WT stem AIR released Xyl and (Xyl)2, and [Me]GlcA(Xyl)4 (CITATION) (FIG-REF). Notably, the hydrolysis of gux1 AIR showed a clear decrease in the intensity of the [Me]GlcA(Xyl)4 band, suggesting the mutant contained reduced [Me]GlcA substitution of the xylan [GlucUronic acid substitution of Xylan (GUX)]. To investigate the modified xylan phenotype further, the frequency of [Me]GlcA substitution of Xyl was estimated by PACE in two alleles of both gux1 and gux2 mutants. Xyl, (Xyl)2, and [Me]GlcA(Xyl)4 oligosaccharides released by xylanase digestion were quantitated (FIG-REF). The gux1 mutants showed a reduction to ∼30% of WT frequency of [Me]GlcA substitution. The gux2 mutants also showed a small but significant reduction to about 80% of WT. We next made double gux1 gux2 mutants to investigate the combined role of GUX1 and GUX2 in xylan substitution. Even though xylanase digests of AIR released Xyl and (Xyl)2 and some (Xyl)3 indicating xylan was present in the gux1 gux2 mutants, the [Me]GlcA(Xyl)4 oligosaccharides were almost undetectable (FIG-REF). Previous work has shown that, in some species at least, GlcA side chain addition is closely coupled with xylan backbone synthesis (CITATION, CITATION). However, quantitation of xylanase-released oligosaccharides indicated that there was no difference in the amount of xylan backbone between WT, single and double gux mutants despite the reduction in side chain addition (FIG-REF). Next, the monosaccharide composition of noncellulosic polymers of WT and gux1 gux2 mutants was analyzed (FIG-REF). Consistent with the finding that the xylan backbone synthesis was unaltered, the neutral monosaccharide composition including Xyl was not significantly changed. In contrast, GlcA was significantly reduced in gux1 gux2. The reduction is consistent with loss from GX, and remaining GlcA may arise from pectin, arabinogalactan proteins, and primary cell wall glucuronoarabinoxylan. In all GX synthesis mutants studied to date, the GlcA is partially or entirely replaced by MeGlcA, but together the proportion of Xyl residues substituted in the xylan is unaltered at ∼10% (CITATION–CITATION, CITATION–CITATION). To investigate whether the reduction in [Me]GlcA substitution in the gux mutants is due to loss specifically of MeGlcA or GlcA, deuteropermethylated xylanase-released oligosaccharides were analyzed by MALDI-TOF (FIG-REF). Although GlcA appears slightly reduced relative to MeGlcA in gux1 and in gux2 single mutants, both types of substitution were affected in each mutant. Consistent with the PACE analysis, both GlcA- and MeGlcA-substituted oligosaccharides were scarcely detectable in gux1 gux2. Together, these analyses suggest that GUX1 and GUX2 are responsible for almost all of the substitution of the xylan backbone in Arabidopsis stem GX, and perhaps the remaining GX substitution could arise from the activity of the three other GUX family members. [[FIGURE]] The absence of [Me]GlcA substitution of xylan in gux1 gux2 suggests that GUX1 and GUX2 are required for substitution of the β(1-4)-Xyl backbone. A nonradioactive assay was developed to detect GuxT activity in stem microsomes, using UDP-GlcA and the acceptor molecule (Xyl)6 labeled at the reducing end with the uncharged fluorophore 2-aminoacridone (AMAC). In this assay, products containing both a negative charge from GlcA and the fluorescently labeled acceptor molecule are separated and visualized in a polyacrylamide gel, whereas uncharged oligosaccharides such as the acceptor (Xyl)6 are unable to enter the gel. With WT microsomes, a ladder of charged oligosaccharides was produced, putatively GlcA(Xyl)n, from GuxT in combination with xylosyltransferase (XylT) extending the (Xyl)6-AMAC acceptor (FIG-REF). However, the GuxT activity was strongly reduced in the double mutant (FIG-REF). The oligosaccharides appeared in a time-dependent manner and required the presence of WT microsomal protein and (Xyl)6-AMAC acceptor, and it was stimulated by UDP-GlcA (Fig. S5 A and B). A small amount of product was formed in the absence of exogenous UDP-GlcA, perhaps from nucleotide sugars in the microsome preparation. UDP-Xyl inclusion in the assay was not necessary (Fig. S5C), as it arises by conversion of UDP-GlcA to UDP-Xyl in the Golgi (CITATION). The activity of XylT was unaffected in the gux1 gux2 mutant (Fig S5 E and F). To confirm that the oligosaccharides were GlcA(Xyl)n-AMAC, we showed that they were hydrolyzed by β(1,4)-xylanase (FIG-REF). The oligosaccharides were also sensitive to β(1,4)-xylosidase, indicating that they have unsubstituted β-Xyl residues at their nonreducing end. The bands were insensitive to a GH67 α-glucuronidase, confirming that they did not have GlcA at the nonreducing end of the oligosaccharide (Fig S5D). Importantly, the oligosaccharides disappeared after treatment with α-glucuronidase plus β(1,4)-xylosidase confirming their charge was from GlcA on a xylan oligosaccharide (FIG-REF). Together, these data indicate that gux1 gux2 stem microsomes have strongly reduced ability to transfer GlcA from UDP-GlcA onto xylooligosaccharide acceptors. [[FIGURE]] The gux1 gux2 plants provide a unique opportunity to investigate the biological role of the [Me]GlcA substitution on xylan deposition and interaction with other wall components. Despite the altered xylan structure, there was no observable growth or developmental phenotype in single or double gux mutants (Fig. S4C). Unlike other xylan synthesis mutants which show collapsed xylem vessels (CITATION–CITATION, CITATION–CITATION), microscopic analysis of gux1 gux2 mutant stem sections revealed predominantly normal xylem (Fig. S6 A and B). Immunofluorescence labeling with two antixylan antibodies confirmed that xylan was present throughout the cell walls in all of the mutants (Fig. S6B). Interestingly, labeling was stronger in the double mutants than the WT, suggesting that more epitopes were accessible to the antibodies. The cell walls appeared normal by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Fig. S6B), and the thickness was not significantly different (WT, 0.236 ± 0.016 μm; gux1 gux2, 0.240 ± 0.014 μm; mean ± SEM, n = 38–40). A four-point bending test provided a quantitative assessment of strength of the cell walls in stems, and showed that the double mutant was slightly weaker than WT (Fig. S6C). Together these data indicate that despite some reduction in strength, the development and function of the secondary cell walls are largely unaffected by the absence of branching on the xylan. To investigate any changed interaction between the xylan and other cell wall components, polysaccharides were sequentially chemically extracted from stem AIR. The solubilized polysaccharides were digested with the GH11 xylanase, and analyzed by PACE (FIG-REF). As expected, only trace amounts of xylan were released in the 1,2-cyclohexanediaminetetraacetic acid (CDTA) and Na2CO3 fractions, which solubilize mainly pectic polysaccharides. In WT, although the majority of xylan was solubilized by 1 M KOH, a substantial amount was found in the 4 M KOH fraction, and in the residue (FIG-REF). In contrast, nearly all of the xylan in gux1 gux2 was extracted by 1 M KOH. Monosaccharide analysis of these fractions confirmed that the xylan in gux1 gux2 was much more easily extracted (FIG-REF and Fig. S7). Interestingly, the solubility at neutral pH of alkali-extracted xylan from the WT and mutants was very different: whereas GX is normally soluble, the unsubstituted gux xylan precipitated (FIG-REF). Finally, it is recognized that GX substituents can inhibit the access of hydrolytic enzymes to the xylan backbone, and the glycosidic bond between [Me]GlcA and Xyl is resistant to acid hydrolysis. Thus, after acid hydrolysis or saccharification, oligosaccharides with substitution can remain. Therefore, this substitution can directly prevent complete release of pentose monosaccharide for fermentation. We measured release of Xyl, using a simple enzyme mixture of a GH11 xylanase and β-xylosidase, from WT and gux1 gux2 AIR after solubilization with alkali. Unlike WT xylan with [Me]GlcA substitution, all of the xylan in gux1 gux2 could be hydrolyzed to monosaccharide sugar in the presence of two enzymes, more than doubling the yield of free xylose (FIG-REF). The xylan in the irx9 and irx14 xylan backbone synthesis mutants have unaltered substitution frequency (CITATION), and therefore show little difference in hydrolysis to the WT xylan. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Details of reagents, plant material, microscopy, XylT assay, and testing of stem strength are described in SI Materials and Methods and Table S1. GTs of Arabidopsis were classified according to their pattern of expression in the public microarray dataset reported by Schmidt et al. (CITATION), which comprises several isolated tissues and developmental stages. The expression data were downloaded from ArrayExpress (record E-TABM-17) and the set of GTs as predicted by CAZy (CITATION) (www.cazy.org) were classified with Cluster 2.5 (CITATION). In Cluster 2.5, classification of GTs was performed on mean centered gene profiles using centered correlation as the similarity metric. Further bioinformatics techniques are described in SI Materials and Methods. AIR was prepared and analyzed by PACE, MS, and high-performance anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD) as described elsewhere (CITATION, CITATION–CITATION) and in SI Materials and Methods. Xyl6 (20 μg; Megazyme) was derivatized with AMAC (Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION) and purified using a GlykoS column (Prozyme) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The composition of the reaction mixture (60 μL) was 30 μL microsomes (∼600 μg protein; prepared as described in SI Materials and Methods), 50 mM Hepes-KOH (pH 6.8), AMAC-(Xyl)6 (68.5 mM), DTT (0.5 mM), UDP-GlcA (10 μM), MnCl2 (10 mM), Triton X-100 (0.5% vol/vol), and, if used, UDP-Xyl (100 μM; CarboSource, Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University of Georgia, Athens, GA). Samples were incubated at 21 °C with shaking. The reaction was stopped by heating (10 min, 95 °C) and lipids removed by phase separation (CITATION). The aqueous fraction was dried under vacuum, and resuspended in 10 μL of 3 M urea. Samples (2 μL) were separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as described in SI Materials and Methods. Sequential fractionation of the AIR and analysis of monosaccharide composition by GC were carried out as described elsewhere (CITATION) and in SI Materials and Methods. Xyl release following digestion with β-xylosidase and NpXynllA was quantified using PACE as described in SI Materials and Methods.
