!~ABS~! Environmental stresses are major factors in limiting plant growth and crop production. To find genes improving salt tolerance, the screening of a large population of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana that expressed rice full-length cDNAs under salinity stress is reported here. In this study one of the isolated salt-tolerant lines, R07303 was analysed in detail. An uncharacterized rice gene CHLOROPLAST PROTEIN-ENHANCING STRESS TOLERANCE (OsCEST) was integrated in R07303. Newly constructed transgenic Arabidopsis that overexpressed OsCEST or its Arabidopsis homologue AtCEST showed improved tolerance to salinity stress. OsCEST and AtCEST were mainly transcribed in photosynthetic tissues. Green fluorescent protein-fused OsCEST and AtCEST proteins were localized to the chloroplast in the Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. CEST-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed enhanced tolerance not only to salt stress but also to drought stress, high-temperature stress, and paraquat, which causes photooxidative stress. Under saline conditions, overexpression of CESTs modulated the stress-induced impairment of photosynthetic activity and the peroxidation of lipids. Reduced expression of AtCEST because of double-stranded RNA interference resulted in the impairment of photosynthetic activity, the reduction of green pigment, defects in chloroplast development, and growth retardation under light. This paper discusses the relationship between the chloroplast protein CEST and photooxidative damage.
!~RES~! Previously, 208 rice FOX Arabidopsis lines were selected as candidates for salt-tolerant lines and several of them have been analysed individually (CITATION; CITATION). One of the candidates R07303 looked remarkably healthy, retaining greener cotyledons when sown on salt-containing agar medium compared with the other FOX candidates (Fig. 1A). To amplify the rice cDNA introduced in R07303, genomic PCR with specific primers for the 35S promoter and Nos terminator was performed. The fragment obtained corresponded to a rice full-length cDNA, AK068219, which was derived from a rice gene, Os01g0798500. The direct relation between AK068219 and salt-tolerant phenotype of R07303 was demonstrated by retransformation experiments. Ten of the 12 newly generated transgenic plants expressing AK068219 exhibited high-salt stress tolerance at the T2 generation as well as R07303 (data not shown), showing that overexpression of AK068219 is responsible for the salt tolerance of the line R07303. The gene was named as CHLOROPLAST PROTEIN ENHANCING STRESS TOLERANCE (OsCEST) for reasons explained in later sections. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis has a homologous gene, At5g44650, to Os01g0798500. Seven of the 12 transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing AtCEST also showed high-salt stress tolerance at the T2 generation (data not shown). The salt-tolerant phenotype of homozygous T3 transgenics overexpressing OsCEST or AtCEST is shown in Fig. 1B and C. Because of a single-copy insertion and higher expression of the transgenes (Fig. 1D, E), homozygous offspring of 35S::OsCEST line no. 01 and 35S::AtCEST line no. 03 were used for further experiments at the T3 or T4 generations. Although the lamina blade of CEST-overexpressing Arabidopsis is slightly narrower, no obvious growth inhibition was observed (Fig. 1F). Deduced products of OsCEST and AtCEST are polypeptides of 292 and 280 amino acid residues with estimated molecular masses of 31.7 kDa and 31.8 kDa, respectively (Fig. 2). OsCEST and AtCEST were highly homologous to each other except for the N-terminals of approximately 100 amino acid residues. The ChloroP program (CITATION) predicted that both proteins contained transit peptides in their N-terminals, which directed localization to plastids (Fig. 2). The SOSUI program (CITATION) showed that these proteins have putative transmembrane regions at their C-terminals. No other characterized motifs or domains were detected in OsCEST and AtCEST. A BLAST search revealed CEST homologues mostly as single genes in plants such as tomato, maize, barley, populus, and Physcomitrella, and in some green algae such as Chlamydomonas and Ostreococcus. However, CEST homologues are absent in the genomes of bacteria and animals, indicating that CEST is specific to photosynthetic organisms. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Tissue-specific expression of OsCEST and AtCEST was investigated by performing the quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). In rice, transcripts of OsCEST were detected at high levels in leaf tissues and at moderate levels in flowers (Fig. 3A) and OsCEST expression was remarkably repressed in roots. In Arabidopsis, AtCEST was expressed in rosette and cauline leaves and flowers at a higher level than that at the roots (Fig. 3B). The tissue specificity of the AtCEST promoter was examined using transgenic Arabidopsis with the promoter region of AtCEST fused to the GUS gene (AtCESTpro::GUS). Transgenic Arabidopsis expressing the GUS gene under the direction of the 35S promoter was used as the control. Intense signals of GUS were detected to be originating from the cotyledons, rosette and cauline leaves, stems, and sepals of AtCESTpro::GUS plants grown under light conditions, while no GUS signals were obtained from the roots and petals (Fig. 3C–F), indicating that expression of AtCEST is specific to photosynthetic tissues. When seedlings were grown in the dark, GUS signals were detected in the cotyledons of AtCESTpro::GUS (Fig. 3G), implying that the activitiy of the AtCEST promoter is independent from light. To check for the stress responsiveness of OsCEST and AtCEST, rice and Arabidopsis seedlings grown on an agar medium were treated with NaCl, mannitol, H2O2, PQ, heat and cold stresses, and the transcription levels of CESTs were measured by quantitative RT-PCR. However, no drastic change was detected in the expression level of CEST (data not shown). Expression analyses using published microarray datasets for rice (Gene Expression Omnibus datasets with accession number GSE6901; CITATION) and Arabidopsis (AtGenExpress; CITATION) support the lack of the drastic induction of OsCEST and AtCEST under stress conditions (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of CESTs was examined by transient expression of GFP-fused CEST proteins (OsCEST-GFP and AtCEST-GFP) in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. Under microscopic observation, fluorescent signals of GFP from OsCEST-GFP and AtCEST-GFP proteins were detected as dot-like structures (Fig. 4). These signals were consistent with those of chlorophyll fluorescence, indicating that CEST is a chloroplast protein. By contrast, signals from GFP proteins were detected in both the nucleus and cytosol, but not in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned above, transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing OsCEST and AtCEST exhibited improved growth with green cotyledons compared with the wild-type when germinated on a salt-containing medium (Fig. 1A, B). To determine whether the enhanced salt tolerance was restricted to the germination stage, seedlings grown on a normal medium for 7 d were transferred to 160–200 mM NaCl-containing media for 3 d. Four days after retransfer to the normal medium, transgenic plants overexpressing CESTs showed markedly higher survival rates than the control plants (Fig. 5A, B). It should be noted that this salt-stress assay requires light, because wild-type plants never showed chlorosis and lethality when incubated in the dark during the salinity-stress treatment and recovery (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Salinity stress often causes oxidative damage through the production of ROS. As a marker of oxidative damage under high-salinity stress, lipid peroxidation was measured by the TBARS assay (CITATION; CITATION). On the 3rd day of exposure to high salt levels, lipid peroxidation estimated from MDA was drastically increased in the shoots of the control seedlings. In transgenic plants overexpressing CESTs, salt-induced increase of MDA was considerably lower than that in the control plants (Fig. 5C). Salinity stress frequently suppresses photosynthetic activity. As a marker of photosynthetic activity, chlorophyll fluorescence was measured by an Imaging-PAM fluorometer. Fv/Fm, qP, and φII are parameters estimated from chlorophyll fluorescence and represent PSII activity, energy flow between PSII and PSI, and energy transfer within PSII, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Fig. 5D, these parameters of the control plants decreased concomitantly with the concentration of NaCl. By comparison, the salinity-induced decrease of these parameters was suppressed in transgenic plants overexpressing CESTs. To reveal whether the improvement in the stress tolerance conferred by CEST is limited to salt stress, the tolerance of the transgenic lines overexpressing CESTs to other environmental stresses was tested. First, the tolerance of soil-grown plants to drought stress was examined. Under drought conditions induced by withholding the water supply for 10 d, the control plants appeared to have almost wilted, whereas the transgenic plants overexpressing CEST genes were visibly healthier (Fig. 6A). Twelve days after resuming water supply, the survival rate of CEST-overexpressing transgenic plants was considerably higher than that of the control plants (Fig. 6A). The tolerance to high-temperature stress was also tested. Seven-day-old plants grown on agar medium under continuous light at 22 °C were subjected to 32 °C. As shown in Fig. 6B, the number of green leaves in CEST-overexpressing transgenic plants was higher than that in control plants. Students t test (P <0.01) showed that the change in the decrease in the chlorophyll contents was significant in transgenic plants overexpressing CESTs over the entire period (Fig. 6C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the adaptation of CEST-overexpressing plants to photooxidative stress, tolerance to PQ was examined. Under light PQ is photoreduced to PQ radicals in PSI in the chloroplast thylakoid, and then the autooxidation of the PQ radicals generates superoxide and its derivative (CITATION; CITATION). Seedlings grown on a normal medium for 7 d were transferred to PQ-containing media for 3 d. After exposure to 15–30 μM PQ for 3 d, the transgenic plants overexpressing CESTs showed markedly higher survival rates than the control plants (Fig. 6D, E). Because transferred-DNA (T-DNA) or transposon insertional mutants could not be found in the database of the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre, transgenic Arabidopsis with reduced expression of AtCEST were constructed by the double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) technology (CITATION). A total of 114 T1 seedlings with hygromycin resistance were generated. A majority of them showed severe growth retardation and reduction of green pigmentation of cotyledons, and 69 plants (61%) were finally dead or sterile, compared with the 95% or more of the vector control plants that grew normally (data not shown). This result suggests that AtCEST is an essential gene. The phenotypes of the remaining survivors, RNAi lines no. 08 and no. 38 at the T3 generation were shown in Fig. 7. RNAi lines no. 08 and no. 38 had decreased expression of AtCEST to 22% and 53%, respectively, and showed growth retardation and low chlorophyll content (Fig. 7A–D). The chlorophyll fluorescence characteristics represented as Fv/Fm, qP, and φII in RNAi lines were significantly lower than those in the control (Fig. 7E). No apparent decrease was detected in the stress tolerance of RNAi lines no. 08 and no. 38 (data not shown), possibly because mutation in these lines was not severe or because a reduction in growth and green pigmentation observed in line no. 08 under normal conditions may have decreased the sensitivity of our assay to detect the susceptibility of the plants to stress. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To estimate the effect of light to AtCEST, RNAi plants were cultured under dark conditions. No obvious difference was noted in the growth of dark-etiolated seedlings between RNAi and control plants (Fig. 8A). When the etiolated seedlings were grown under light conditions, cotyledons of control plants turned green within 2 d. In RNAi plants, however, the change in the colour was suppressed and the chlorophyll contents were maintained at lower levels than those of the control plants (Fig. 8B, C). The mesophyll cells of these cotyledons were examined under a confocal microscope. As shown in Fig. 8D, the fluorescent signals from chlorophyll in RNAi no. 08 lines were weaker than those in the control plants, although the number of chloroplasts per cells between RNAi no. 08 and control plants were similar. The fine structures of the chloroplasts were studied using an electron microscope. As shown in Fig. 8E, the chloroplasts of RNAi no. 08 plants showed poorly developed thylakoid membranes and grana stacks and the absence of starch grains. These findings indicate that reduced expression of AtCEST affects light-induced chloroplast development. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was used for this experiment. Some Arabidopsis seeds were sown on soil and incubated in a growth chamber at 22 °C under long-day conditions (70 μmol m−2 s−1; 16/8 h light/dark), while others were sown on a half-strength MS medium containing 1% sucrose and 0.8% agar and incubated at 22 °C under continuous light (70 μmol m−2 s−1). Some rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) plants were grown on soil in a greenhouse, while others were grown on half-strength MS medium containing 1% sucrose and 0.2% gellan gum in a growth chamber at 26 °C under long-day conditions (150 μmol m−2 s−1; 16/8 h light/dark). To observe the effects of high salinity on germination and greening, seeds were sown on agar medium containing NaCl and grown at 22 °C under continuous light. At 15 d after sowing, plants with green open cotyledons were counted. To determine the effects of NaCl or paraquat (PQ) on young seedlings, 7-d-old plants grown on agar medium were transferred to NaCl or PQ-containing agar medium and incubated for 3 d. Subsequently, plants were returned to the agar medium without NaCl or PQ and incubated for 4 d. Survivability was estimated on the basis of whether apical buds were green. Drought-stress treatment was performed by suspending irrigation to plants grown on soil for 25 d under long-day conditions. Twelve days after the last watering, the plants were rewatered for 1 d to determine their survivability. High-temperature stress treatment was performed by exposing 7-d-old plants grown on agar medium under continuous light at 22–32 °C. Lipid peroxidation was determined by measuring the amount of malondialdehyde (MDA). The bulk of shoots excised from five seedlings was used. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) assay was performed according to method described by CITATION. In order to measure the chlorophyll contents, 10 seedlings were ground into powder in liquid nitrogen and suspended in 1 ml of 80% acetone. The chlorophyll content was determined according to the method proposed by CITATION. Chlorophyll fluorescence was determined by an Imaging-PAM fluorometer (IMAG-MAX/L; Heinz Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). Plants were dark-adapted for 10 min and minimum fluorescence (Fo) was recorded. Maximum fluorescence in the dark-adapted state (Fm) was obtained by application of a saturating light pulse (2000 μmol photons m−2 s−1). Plants were then illuminated with actinic light (60 μmol photons m−2 s−1) for 10 min and minimum fluorescence (F′O), maximal fluorescence (F′m), and steady-state fluorescence (Fs) were measured. Maximal photosystem II (PSII) quantum yield (Fv/Fm), coefficient of photochemical quenching (qP), and effective PSII quantum yield (φII) were estimated as Fv/Fm=(Fm–Fo)/Fm, qP=(F′m−Fs)/(Fm′−Fo′), and φΠ=(F′m−Fs)/F′m respectively. Complementary DNA of OsCEST and AtCEST was cloned by the PCR method. Construction of the binary plasmids for overexpressing CESTs, full-length cDNA, and full-length coding sequence of OsCEST and AtCEST, respectively, were introduced into the SfiI site of pBIG2113SF (CITATION). To construct the binary plasmid for double-stranded RNA-interference, antisense (400–700) and sense (4–700) AtCEST cDNA fragments were ligated and introduced into the SfiI site of pBIG2113SF. Arabidopsis plants transformed with intact pBIG2113SF were used for the vector control. For constructing the AtCEST promoter::GUS plasmid, the 35S promoter of the pBI121 (Clontech; Palo Alto, CA, USA) was replaced with a 726 bp DNA fragment of the AtCEST promoter between the start codon and the end of the coding region of the nearest-neighbour gene (At5g44640). The recombinant binary vector was introduced into the Agrobacterium (Rhizobium radiobacter) strain GV3101. Agrobacterium was infected into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method (CITATION). Seedlings transformed with pBIG2113SF or its derivatives were selected on a medium containing 1 mM KNO3, 20 mg l−1 hygromycin B, 100 mg l−1 cefotaxime, and 0.8% agar (CITATION). Seedlings transformed with pBI121 or its derivative were selected on a half-strength MS medium containing 50 mg l−1 kanamycin, 100 mg l−1 cefotaxime, and 0.8% agar. Total RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen Inc., Valencia, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer's protocol including the step on DNA elimination. First-strand cDNA was synthesized using 2 μg of the total RNA and a cDNA synthesis kit (High Capacity; Applied Biosystems, Scoresby, VIA, Australia). RT-PCR was performed using 25 μl of the reaction mixture containing 2 μl of a 20-fold dilution of the cDNA solution, 2.5 mM of each primer, and 12.5 μl of SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems, Scoresby, VIC, Australia). The primer sequences are shown in Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online. To estimate the relative mRNA level, the dilution series of a reference cDNA sample was used as the standard. The thermal cycling conditions were the following: pre-incubation at 95 °C for 10 min, followed by 40 cycles of 15 s at 95 °C and 1 min at 60 °C. The data of rice and Arabidopsis genes were normalized through division by those of actin genes RAC1 (CITATION) and AtACT2, respectively (CITATION). Localization of reporter gene expression was visualized by in situ histochemical staining. Transgenic plants harbouring the AtCESTprom::GUS or 35S::GUS fusion and grown on agar medium were used. Plant tissues were prefixed in 80% acetone for 5 min and then submerged in a staining solution containing 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.0), 0.3% (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.1 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.1 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 0.5 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronid acid (X-gluc; Sigma Aldrich, USA) and dried in a vacuum for 5 min. Then, samples were incubated with the staining solution at 37 °C for 24 h. For chlorophyll removal, samples were incubated overnight in 70% ethanol at room temperature. The plasmid for expression of the GFP-fused protein was constructed using GATEWAY technology (Invitrogen Corp., Carlsbad, CA, USA), as described previously (CITATION). By performing the LR Clonase reaction, the coding region of CEST cloned in pENTR/D-TOPO was transferred into the expression vector containing a GATEWAY cassette and GFP of pGWB5 (CITATION) under the control of the 35S promoter of pBI221 (Clontech). Isolation and transformation of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were performed according to the polyethylene glycol method, as described by CITATION. After overnight incubation in the dark, the protoplasts were examined under an LSM510 inverted confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss Inc., Oberkochen, Germany). Arabidopsis cotyledon segments from seedlings grown in the dark for 5 d with subsequent light exposure for 2 d were used. Samples were prefixed in 2% glutaraldehyde and 2% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) at 4 °C for 24 h and then fixed in 2% osmium tetroxide in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) at 4 °C for 3 h. After the fixation, samples were dehydrated in ethanol and embedded in Quetol-812 (Nisshin EM, Tokyo, Japan) according to the standard procedures. Thin sections of the samples were cut and stained with 2% uranyl acetate. They were then observed under a JEM1200EX transmission electron microscope (JEOL, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan).
