!~ABS~! High mobility group (HMG) proteins of the HMGB family are chromatin-associated proteins that as architectural factors are involved in the regulation of transcription and other DNA-dependent processes. HMGB proteins are generally considered nuclear proteins, although mammalian HMGB1 can also be detected in the cytoplasm and outside of cells. Plant HMGB proteins studied so far were found exclusively in the cell nucleus. Using immunofluorescence and fluorescence microscopy of HMGB proteins fused to the green fluorescent protein, we have examined the subcellular localization of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 proteins, revealing that, in addition to a prominent nuclear localization, they can be detected also in the cytoplasm. The nucleocytoplasmic distribution appears to depend on the cell type. By time-lapse fluorescence microscopy, it was observed that the HMGB2 and HMGB4 proteins tagged with photoactivatable green fluorescent protein can shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, while HMGB1 remains nuclear. The balance between the basic amino-terminal and the acidic carboxyl-terminal domains flanking the central HMG box DNA-binding domain critically influences the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of the HMGB proteins. Moreover, protein kinase CK2-mediated phosphorylation of the acidic tail modulates the intranuclear distribution of HMGB2. Collectively, our results show that, in contrast to other Arabidopsis HMGB proteins such as HMGB1 and HMGB5, the HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 proteins occur preferentially in the cell nucleus, but to various extents also in the cytoplasm.
!~RES~! Since the subcellular localization of plant HMGB proteins has not been examined systematically, we raised an antiserum against Arabidopsis HMGB2, whose distribution has not been studied in plant cells. The antibody was tested in immunoblots, revealing that it reacted specifically with a protein band of the expected size of approximately 15 kD, when Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) leaf protein extracts were probed (Fig. 1A). When compared with an antiserum directed against Arabidopsis HMGB1 (CITATION), relative to the bands of the recombinant proteins the HMGB2 band appeared markedly more prominent, consistent with the higher expression level of HMGB2 (http://www.arabidopsis.org/portals/expression/index.jsp). In addition, the HMGB2 antiserum reacted equally well with recombinant HMGB2 and HMGB3 (data not shown), as both proteins share approximately 89% amino acid sequence identity and comigrate on SDS-PAGE. The HMGB2 antiserum was used for indirect immunofluorescence microscopic analyses of Arabidopsis root tip cells (Fig. 1B), while the HMGB1 antiserum served as a reference. In line with previous experiments (CITATION; CITATION), the HMGB1 antiserum reacted specifically with interphase nuclei that were stained in parallel with 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole. Anti-HMGB1 signals were enhanced in heterochromatic interphase regions. Conversely, anti-HMGB2-labeled cells displayed uniformly stained interphase nuclei, and additional weak immunofluorescence signals were found in the cytoplasm. Dividing chromosomes were hardly stained with either anti-HMGB1 or anti-HMB2. This finding suggests that HMGB2 (and/or HMGB3) to some extent also occurs outside the cell nucleus. [[FIGURE]] To further analyze the subcellular localization of HMGB2/3 and HMGB4, we generated plasmids that could direct the expression of GFP fusion proteins in plant cells. Tobacco protoplasts were transformed with these plasmids and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM; Fig. 2). The previously observed nuclear localization of HMGB1 and HMGB5 (CITATION; CITATION) served as a reference. While GFP-HMGB1 and GFP-HMGB5 were found exclusively in the cell nucleus (Fig. 2, A and B), the fluorescence signals of HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 were detected primarily in the nucleus, but to various extents also in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2, C–H). Each fluorescent image (except G) is shown in normal exposure and overexposed to illustrate more clearly the cytoplasmic fluorescence seen with HMGB2/3 and HMGB4. The localization of HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 in both cytoplasm and nucleus was consistently observed for both the N- and C-terminal GFP fusion proteins, although quantitative differences were observed in the nucleocytoplasmic distribution with different protoplasts and with N- versus C-terminal GFP fusions (HMGB2 and HMGB4). These experiments showed that, in contrast to the strictly nuclear proteins HMGB1 and HMGB5, the HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 proteins are also found in the cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] To examine the subcellular distribution of HMGB2 and HMGB4 in planta, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing HMGB-GFP fusion proteins. Roots of the transgenic plants were analyzed by CLSM (Fig. 3) and compared with plants expressing HMGA and HMGB5 fused to GFP (which were constructed in the same way). The primary root tip was observed (Fig. 3, A, D, G, and J), and meristematic and cortical cells were inspected in more detail. Consistent with previous experiments (CITATION), HMGA and HMGB5 were detected exclusively in the nuclei of both the meristematic and cortical cells (Fig. 3, B, C, E, and F). For the HMGB2 and HMGB4 fusion proteins, in meristematic cells, GFP fluorescence was detected preferentially in nuclei (Fig. 3, H and K). In cortex cells, the GFP fusion proteins occurred predominantly in nuclei, but they were also clearly visible in the cytoplasm (Fig. 3, I and L). The cytoplasmic GFP signal in cortex cells was observed both in the GFP fluorescence images (left panels) and in the overlays of GFP fluorescence and the corresponding bright-field images (right panels). This experiment confirmed that HMGB2 and HMGB4 can occur in the cytoplasm and suggested that the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of HMGB2 and HMGB4 varies between cells. [[FIGURE]] Since the Arabidopsis HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 proteins were detected both in nuclei and cytoplasm, while HMGB1 and HMGB5 were exclusively found in nuclei, the amino acid sequences of the HMGB proteins were searched for motifs that possibly are responsible for this difference in subcellular distribution. However, we were unable to identify differences in potential nuclear localization signals (NLSs) or nuclear export signals (CITATION) that could explain the observed differential localization. Moreover, incubation of protoplasts that expressed GFP fusion proteins with the inhibitor of the nuclear export receptor XPO1, leptomycin B, had no effect on the subcellular distribution of HMGB2 or HMGB4 (data not shown). To examine experimentally the contribution of HMGB protein domains on the subcellular localization, we constructed a variety of plasmids that direct the expression of truncated and chimeric HMGB proteins fused to GFP. Tobacco protoplasts transformed with these plasmids were examined by CLSM (Fig. 4). For comparison, the localization of full-length HMGB1 and HMGB5 (localized in the nucleus) and of HMGB2 and HMGB4 (localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm) are shown (Fig. 4, A–D). Deletion of the basic N-terminal domain of HMGB2 and HMGB4 had no marked influence on the localization of the proteins when compared with the full-length proteins (Fig. 4, E and F). However, deletion of the acidic C-terminal domain of HMGB2 and HMGB4 resulted in an increased accumulation of the proteins in the nucleus (Fig. 4, G and H). Replacement of the basic N-terminal domains of HMGB2 and HMGB4 by the basic N-terminal domain of HMGB1 (which contains a strong NLS; CITATION), caused efficient nuclear accumulation of the chimeric proteins (Fig. 4, I and J). When the acidic C-terminal domain of HMGB5 was replaced by the acidic C-terminal domains of HMGB2 or HMGB4, the chimeric proteins (unlike intact HMGB5) in addition to the nucleus were found in the cytoplasm (Fig. 4, K and L). Replacement of the acidic tails of HMGB2 and HMGB4 by the short acidic C-terminal domain of HMGB5 resulted in chimeric proteins that accumulated in the nucleus (Fig. 4, M and N). In summary, the comparative analyses of the subcellular localization of these full-length, truncated, and chimeric HMGB proteins indicated that the basic N-terminal and the acidic C-terminal domains are involved in directing the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of the Arabidopsis HMGB proteins, possibly by intramolecular interaction. [[FIGURE]] Since no amino acid sequence motif(s) could be detected that may confer the different subcellular localization of HMGB1 and HMGB5 on the one hand and of HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 on the other hand, the contribution of posttranslational modifications was considered. To date, the only posttranslational modification that has been identified for plant HMGB proteins is the protein kinase CK2-mediated phosphorylation of Ser/Thr residues within the acidic C-terminal domains of maize HMGB proteins (CITATION). When Arabidopsis HMGB proteins were tested for CK2-mediated phosphorylation, HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 were readily phosphorylated, while HMGB1 was phosphorylated only weakly (and not within the C-terminal region that does not contain Ser/Thr residues) and HMGB5 was not phosphorylated at all (CITATION). Thus, the three HMGB proteins that, in addition to the nucleus, are found in the cytoplasm are particularly good substrates for protein kinase CK2. In line with that, the C-terminal amino acid sequences of these proteins contain Ser residues within CK2 consensus sequences (CITATION; CITATION) that resemble the sites known to be phosphorylated with maize HMGB proteins (CITATION), while these sites do not occur in the C-terminal region of HMGB1 and HMGB5 (Fig. 5A). To test whether the CK2-mediated phosphorylation of these C-terminal Ser residues is involved in directing the subcellular localization of HMGB2, the three candidate Ser residues (Ser-120, Ser-123, and Ser-137) were changed to Ala residues. Phosphorylation assays using purified recombinant maize CK2α and [γ-32P]ATP were performed with wild-type HMGB2 and the S→A mutant version of HMGB2 lacking the three C-terminal Ser residues. The substrate proteins were reacted with CK2α for different times, and as expected, HMGB2 was vigorously phosphorylated by the enzyme (Fig. 5B). By contrast, the S→A mutations abolished the phosphorylation of HMGB2 by the protein kinase. The S→A mutant form of HMGB2, along with the corresponding phosphomimic mutant (S→D, with the three Ser residues changed to Asp) fused to GFP, were expressed in tobacco protoplasts and analyzed by CLSM in comparison with wild type GFP-HMGB2. The wild-type and mutant HMGB2 forms showed a similar nucleocytoplasmic distribution, but in contrast to GFP-HMGB2, which often showed GFP fluorescence in the nucleolus (Fig. 5, G and H), this effect was never seen with the mutant versions of GFP-HMGB2. In addition, the S→A and S→D mutant versions of HMGB2 displayed a more pronounced speckled pattern of fluorescence in the nucleus. Thus, CK2-mediated phosphorylation did not appear to influence the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of HMGB2, but it modulated the protein localization within the cell nucleus. [[FIGURE]] The occurrence of HMGB2/3 and HMGB4 in both nucleus and cytoplasm raised the possibility that these proteins can shuttle between the two locations. To test this possibility, HMGB2 and HMGB4 fused to photoactivatable GFP (paGFP) were expressed in tobacco protoplasts and examined by multifocal two-photon laser scanning microscopy (CITATION). The dynamics of the diffusion of HMGB2 and HMGB4 fused to paGFP was recorded before (0 s) and at different times during and after activation of the paGFP in the nucleus (Fig. 6, A–E and F–J, respectively). For both paGFP fusion proteins, over time a decrease of nuclear fluorescence was observed. In parallel, an increase of fluorescence was seen in the cytoplasm. This demonstrated that significant amounts of both HMGB2 and HMGB4 fused to paGFP can migrate from the nucleus to the cytoplasm within the analyzed period. When HMGB1 fused to paGFP was examined in parallel, no cytoplasmic fluorescence was observed (Fig. 6, K–N), indicating that, in line with previous experiments (CITATION), HMGB1 remained in the nucleus and could not migrate to the cytoplasm. To study the migration from cytoplasm to the nucleus, paGFP fused to HMGB2 and HMGB4 was activated in a small area of the cytoplasm (indicated by a rectangle), and the fluorescence was recorded over time (Fig. 6, O–X). This experiment showed that HMGB2 and HMGB4 first spread from the activation site in the cytoplasm, and consistent with their preferential nuclear localization in the following, they accumulated in the cell nucleus. Monitoring the distribution of paGFP fused to HMGB2 and HMGB4 demonstrated that both proteins can shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, whereas HMGB1 remained nuclear localized. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The sequences encoding the various full-length, truncated, and chimeric HMG proteins were generated by amplifying the corresponding DNA fragments with Pfu DNA polymerase using an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) cDNA library as template and the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. For expression of the mutant form of HMGB2, in which three Ser codons were replaced by Ala or Asp codons, the coding sequence was generated by overlap extension PCR (CITATION). The PCR fragments were cloned into suitable plasmids as detailed below, and plasmid constructs were checked by DNA sequencing. For transient expression of GFP-HMGB fusions in protoplasts, the coding sequences were inserted into plasmid p5′GFP or p3′GFP (CITATION), providing the expressed protein with an N- or C-terminal GFP fusion, respectively. For expression of GFP-HMG fusions in stably transformed Arabidopsis plants, the GFP-HMG coding sequences were inserted into plasmid pGII0179-35S (CITATION). For analysis of protein dynamics, the HMGB coding sequences were inserted with paGFP in plasmid p5′paGFP (CITATION). For expression of the wild-type and mutant forms of HMGB2 in Escherichia coli, the coding sequences were inserted into plasmid pQE9cm (CITATION), providing an N-terminal 6× His tag. Details of the plasmids generated in this work are summarized in Supplemental Table S1. The E. coli M15 strain was transformed with the pQE9 expression vectors, and the recombinant wild-type and mutant HMGB2 proteins were purified by three-step column chromatography (metal chelate, cation exchange, and anion exchange) as described previously (CITATION). Purified proteins were checked by SDS-PAGE and matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry. Recombinant wild-type and mutant HMGB2 were phosphorylated in vitro using recombinant maize CK2α in the presence of [γ-32P]ATP as described previously (CITATION). The samples were separated by SDS-PAGE on 18% SDS-polyacrylamide gels, and phosphorylated proteins were visualized with a Cyclone storage phosphor imager (Canberra Packard). An antiserum against purified recombinant Arabidopsis HMGB2 was produced by commercial immunization and tested as described previously (CITATION). The antiserum against Arabidopsis HMGB1 was described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For immunoblot analyses, proteins were extracted from approximately 3 g of green tissue using 2% (w/v) TCA as described previously (CITATION). The protein extracts were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining to check the quality of the extracts. Immunodetection of the HMGB proteins was performed as described previously (CITATION). Immunodetection of HMGB1 and HMGB2 in root tip cells of Arabidopsis seedlings was performed using HMGB1/HMGB2-specific antisera as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis (Col-0) and transgenic plant lines were grown in soil in a phytochamber at 22°C and 16 h of light per day as described previously (CITATION). The pGII0179 plasmids and the plasmid pSOUP (CITATION) were used to cotransform the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pGV3101 by electroporation. Transformed Agrobacterium cells were used to transform Arabidopsis plants of ecotype Col-0 employing the floral dip method (CITATION). Plants growing on the selective medium were transferred to soil, and isolated genomic DNA was tested by PCR for the presence of the transgene (CITATION). Protoplasts of dark-grown tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells were transiently transformed using polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation as described previously (CITATION). Excitation of GFP was performed with a standard UV light source and fluorescein isothiocyanate filters. For CLSM, samples were directly examined under oil with a 63× objective and a DM RBE TCS4D microscope (Leica) equipped with an argon-krypton laser (excitation at 488 nm, beam splitter at 510 nm, filter at 515 nm) using Leica Scanware. Analysis of the localization of the different GFP fusion proteins was performed in three independent experiments, each representing approximately 60 to 80 transformed protoplasts. Transgenic seedlings expressing GFP-HMGA and GFP-HMGB fusions were grown on MS medium (CITATION) under long-day conditions at approximately 21°C in a plant incubator (Percival Scientific). Four-day-old seedlings were fixed in fixing solution (4.5% [w/v] paraformaldehyde, 50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, and 150 mm NaCl) prior to analysis by CLSM using a 510 Meta instrument (Zeiss) with Zeiss LSM Image browser software using the argon laser (pinhole, 394 μm; filter, BP 505–550). The analysis of real-time protein mobility in transiently transformed tobacco BY-2 protoplasts expressing HMGB proteins fused to paGFP using multifocal two-photon laser scanning microscopy was performed as described previously (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers Y14072 to Y14074. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table S1. The plasmid constructs and primers used in this work.
