!~ABS~! Chloroplasts move toward weak light (accumulation response) and away from strong light (avoidance response). The fast and accurate movement of chloroplasts in response to ambient light conditions is essential for efficient photosynthesis and photodamage prevention in chloroplasts. Here, we report that two Arabidopsis mutants, weak chloroplast movement under blue light 1 (web1) and web2, are defective in both the avoidance and the accumulation responses. Map-based cloning revealed that both genes encode coiled-coil proteins and that WEB2 is identical to the plastid movement impaired 2 (PMI2) gene. The velocities of chloroplast movement in web1 and pmi2 were approximately threefold lower than that in the wild type. Defects in the avoidance response of web1 and pmi2 were suppressed by mutation of the J-domain protein required for chloroplast accumulation response 1 (JAC1) gene, which is essential for the accumulation response; these results indicate that WEB1 and PMI2 play a role in suppressing JAC1 under strong light conditions. A yeast two-hybrid analysis and a nuclear recruitment assay identified a physical interaction between WEB1 and PMI2, and transient expression analysis of CFP-WEB1 and YFP-PMI2 revealed that they colocalized in the cytosol. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis confirmed the interaction of these proteins in the cytosol. Blue light-induced changes in short chloroplast actin filaments (cp-actin filaments) were impaired in both web1 and pmi2. Our findings suggest that a cytosolic WEB1–PMI2 complex maintains the velocity of chloroplast photorelocation movement via cp-actin filament regulation.
!~RES~! Two Arabidopsis mutants that are defective in chloroplast avoidance response, phot2 and chup1, were previously isolated with a white band assay (WBA) screen (CITATION, CITATION). During the mutant screen of fast neutron- and γ-ray–mutagenized seeds, we found two complementation groups of the mutant lines that seemed to be deficient in the avoidance response: two web1 mutants [web1-1 (fast neutron) and web1-2 (γ-ray)] and one web2 mutant [web2-1 (γ-ray)]. Because these mutants showed very similar phenotypes (see below), we hypothesized that the same pathway was disrupted in both mutants. Map-based cloning revealed that the WEB1 and WEB2 genes were At2g26570 and At1g66840, respectively (FIG-REF and Fig. S1 A and B). WEB2 was previously identified as the PMI2 gene (CITATION). Accordingly, web2-1 was renamed pmi2-3. The WEB1 gene has two introns and encodes a protein of 807 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of ca. 89 kDa (FIG-REF). The PMI2 gene has two introns and encodes a protein of 607 aa with a predicted molecular mass of ca. 70 kDa (FIG-REF). The transferred DNA (T-DNA) tagged lines, web1-3 (FIG-REF) and pmi2-2 (CITATION) (FIG-REF), showed the same phenotypes as web1 and pmi2, respectively. Expression of WEB1 and PMI2 in the transgenic web1 and pmi2 mutant plants, respectively, rescued the deficient chloroplast movement responses, confirming that At2g26570 and At1g66840 are the genes affected in the web1 and pmi2 mutant plants, respectively. Both WEB1 and PMI2 are predicted to be proteins with high coiled-coil content by the Coils program (CITATION) (FIG-REF), and they belong to the plant-specific DUF827 (DUF: Domain of Unknown Function; Pfam PF05701) protein family. Arabidopsis and rice have 14 and 10 DUF827 family coiled-coil proteins, respectively (FIG-REF). Phylogenetic analyses revealed that these proteins could be separated into four clades and that Arabidopsis has three WEB1-like genes (WEL1, -2, and -3) and a PMI2-like gene (PMI15) (CITATION) (FIG-REF and Fig. S2A). Luesse et al. reported a structure for the PMI2 protein based on in silico analyses and predicted two putative nuclear localization signals (NLS) and a putative ATP/GTP-binding motif A (P-loop) (CITATION) (Fig. S2A). Within the WEB1 sequence, a putative NLS was also predicted, but a P-loop region was not found (Fig. S2A). [[FIGURE]] To analyze the WEB1 and PMI2 gene expression patterns, RT-PCR analysis was performed. The β-tubulin 2 (TUB) and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (UBC) genes were used as controls. WEB1 and PMI2 were expressed mainly in chloroplast-containing tissues (leaf and stem) and slightly in the roots (FIG-REF). Gene expression data obtained from the public microarray database Genevestigator (CITATION) revealed that WEB1 and PMI2 are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues (Fig. S2B). Although PMI15 and PMI2 were expressed at similar levels, the three WEL genes were expressed at much lower levels compared with WEB1 in all tissues except for stamen and pollen (Fig. S2B). Immunoblot analysis with an anti-WEB1 antibody showed that a band of ≈120 kDa was detected in WT plants but not in web1 mutant plants (FIG-REF and Fig. S3A). This result demonstrated that the molecular mass of the WEB1 protein in vivo was much larger than its predicted molecular mass (ca. 89 kDa). WEB1 proteins expressed in the wheat germ cell-free expression system (Fig. S3B) and in Escherichia coli (Fig. S3C) were also approximately 120 kDa, indicating that the difference in the observed WEB1 molecular mass is not the result of plant-specific posttranslational modification. Although no PMI2 antibody is currently available, hexahistidine-tagged PMI2 proteins expressed in the wheat germ cell-free expression system were about 74 kDa (Fig. S3D), which is similar to the predicted molecular weight (ca. 70 kDa). Immunoblot analysis with fractionated protein samples showed that WEB1 is predominantly detected in the soluble fraction and slightly in the microsomal fractions (FIG-REF). In the pmi2pmi15 and phot1phot2 double mutants, the amount and fractionation profile of WEB1 were similar to those in WT (FIG-REF), indicating that the expression amount and localization of the WEB1 protein are not affected by the phototropins or the PMI2 and PMI15 proteins. Subcellular localization analyses using CFP, GFP, and YFP were performed. The corresponding vectors were transiently coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplast cells after PEG-mediated transformation (CITATION). The DsRed monomer (DsRED; Clontech) was used as a cytosolic marker. Unexpectedly, GFP-WEB1 was localized predominantly at the cell periphery and slightly in the cytosol (FIG-REF, Middle), whereas GFP-PMI2 was localized in the cytosol, similarly to DsRED (FIG-REF, Bottom). Although NLSs were predicted in both the WEB1 and the PMI2 sequences (Fig. S2B), the GFP fusions did not localize in the nucleus, suggesting that the predicted NLSs are not functional (FIG-REF). To determine whether WEB1 and PMI2 colocalize, CFP-WEB1 and YFP-PMI2 were coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Although CFP-WEB1 was mainly localized at the cell periphery, CFP-WEB1 and YFP-PMI2 colocalized in the cytosol (FIG-REF). We hypothesized that WEB1 and PMI2 could physically interact for three reasons: (i) the web1 and pmi2 mutants showed the same phenotypes as web1pmi2 double mutant (see below), (ii) coiled-coil regions mediate protein–protein interactions, and (iii) both proteins colocalized in the cytosol when transiently overexpressed. The interaction between WEB1 and PMI2 was verified by yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) analysis. When full-length WEB1 and PMI2 were fused to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (BD) and the Gal4 activation domain (AD), respectively, and coexpressed in yeast cells, an interaction between BD-WEB1 and AD-PMI2 was clearly observed (FIG-REF). The result was also confirmed with the BD-PMI2 and AD-WEB1 fusion proteins (FIG-REF). To clarify the interaction between WEB1 and PMI2 in planta, we took advantage of two different colored fluorescent proteins, CFP and YFP, and an NLS in reference to the previous studies (CITATION, CITATION), and termed this procedure a nuclear recruitment (NR) assay. The NR assay is based on a recruitment of a cytoplasmic YFP fusion protein into a nucleus by interaction with an NLS-tagged CFP (NLS-CFP) fusion protein that localizes in the nucleus. When the both proteins physically interact, the YFP fusion protein is transported into a nucleus from the cytoplasm by a facilitation of the NLS-CFP fusion protein; thereby both CFP and YFP fluorescence could be detected in the nucleus. As a control experiment, CFP-WEB1 and YFP-PMI2 coexpressed in onion epidermal cells did not localize in the nuclei (FIG-REF, Top). When NLS-tagged CFP-WEB1 (NLS-CFP-WEB1) and YFP-PMI2 were coexpressed, both proteins were clearly localized in the nucleus (FIG-REF, Middle). Nuclear localization of CFP-WEB1 was also found in cells that expressed both CFP-WEB1 and NLS-tagged YFP-PMI2 (NLS-YFP-PMI2) (FIG-REF, Bottom). These results indicate that WEB1 and PMI2 physically interact in planta. To analyze the subcellular localization of the WEB1-PMI2 complex, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis (CITATION) with split YFP was carried out. YFP fluorescence was reconstituted by the interaction between YN-WEB1 and YC-PMI2 in the cytosolic fraction of both Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts (FIG-REF) and onion epidermal cells (Fig. S4A). Fluorescence complementation in the cytosol was also observed with the combination of YN-PMI2 and YC-WEB1 (Fig. S4A). Interestingly, YN-WEB1 and YC-WEB1 complemented YFP fluorescence only at the cell periphery but not in the cytosol (FIG-REF), indicating WEB1 self-association in vivo. On the other hand, YN-PMI2 and YC-PMI2 did not exhibit any fluorescence (FIG-REF). Because the self-association of WEB1 was not observed by Y2H analysis (FIG-REF), linker molecule(s) may mediate the WEB1 multimer formation at the cell periphery. Because phot1 and phot2 localize to the plasma membrane (CITATION, CITATION), one possibility is that phot1 or phot2 is the linker. Another possibility is that PMI2 acts as the linker because PMI2 interacts with WEB1. However, a clear BiFC between YN-WEB1 and YC-WEB1 was observed at the cell periphery in both phot1phot2 and pmi2-3pmi15-1 mutant cells (Fig. S4B), indicating that the phototropins and PMI2 (and PMI15) are not the linker proteins. Overall, the WEB1–PMI2 and WEB1–WEB1 complexes are localized in the cytosol and at the cell periphery, respectively. Consistent with the ability of WEB1 to interact with PMI2 or itself, size exclusion chromatographic analysis of soluble proteins showed that native WEB1 was detected as a large molecular mass complex that is distinct from the rubisco large complex (rbcL) (ca. 550 kDa) (FIG-REF), indicating that the native WEB1 protein forms large protein complex(es) in vivo. The profile of the WEB1 complex in pmi2pmi15 mutant plants was not significantly different from that in WT, indicating that the WEB1–PMI2 complex is less abundant than the WEB1 homomultimer (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To assess the functions of WEB1 and PMI2 in chloroplast photorelocation movement, the movement was quantitatively examined in web1 and pmi2 single-mutant plants and in a web1pmi2 double-mutant plant (FIG-REF). Detached rosette leaves from WT, web1-1, web1-2, pmi2-3, and web1-1pmi2-3 plants were examined by WBA. To compare precisely the results obtained from the WBA, a method for WBA evaluation, which is based on quantification of leaf transmittance alteration, was developed. A preliminary test of the method was performed using phot1phot2 mutant leaves (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. S5A). The blue channel image was isolated from the RGB color photograph to detect a clear white band on the leaves (FIG-REF). To quantify the leaf transmittance alterations, a pixel profile of the indicated region of interest (ROI; 10 × 40 pixels) was obtained (FIG-REF) (see details in SI Materials and Methods). In the resulting graph, the peak of the chart around pixel 20 on the horizontal axis shows the relative intensity of the generated white band, which was termed the WBA value (FIG-REF and Fig. S5A). A higher WBA value indicates a higher chloroplast avoidance movement response. After irradiation with 500 μmol m−2 s−1 of white light for 30 min, a white band was generated in WT leaves but not in mutant leaves (FIG-REFi). The WBA value for WT leaves was ≈25, whereas those of all mutants tested were below the baseline level of 5 (FIG-REF). Subsequently, irradiation with 1,200 μmol m−2 s−1 of white light for 30 min was tested. White bands were generated in WT and in all mutant plant leaves (FIG-REFii), and WBA values of 37.5 and ≈15, respectively, were observed (FIG-REF). The WBA value for the web1-1pmi2-3 double-mutant plants was the same as those for the single-mutant plants (FIG-REF), suggesting that WEB1 and PMI2 act in the same pathway. After irradiation with 500 μmol m−2 s−1 of white light for 3, 6, and 12 h, white bands were also observed in web mutant leaves (FIG-REF and Fig. S5B), and the WBA values increased with irradiation time (FIG-REF). These results indicate that white bands in web1 and pmi2 mutant plants are not induced to the same extent as in WT, which suggests that the chloroplast movements in both web1 and pmi2 are somewhat attenuated. [[FIGURE]] To genetically dissect the roles of the WEB1 and PMI2 genes in chloroplast photorelocation movement, we have analyzed their genetic interactions with the PHOT1, PHOT2, and JAC1 genes, which are involved in chloroplast relocation movements. We found genetic interactions of WEB1 and PMI2 with the JAC1 gene. Chloroplast photorelocation movement was analyzed by leaf transmittance analysis, as previously reported (CITATION, CITATION), in web1-2jac1-2 and pmi2-3jac1-2 double mutants and compared with those of WT, jac1-2, phot2-1, phot2-1jac1-2, web1-2, and pmi2-3 (FIG-REF). The jac1 mutant is impaired specifically in the accumulation response but not in the avoidance response (FIG-REF; note that the speed of the leaf transmittance change in jac1-2 was slower than that of WT under 50 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light), suggesting that JAC1 functions specifically in the accumulation response signaling pathway (CITATION). If WEB1 and PMI2 function in the signaling pathway for the avoidance response, the web1jac1 and pmi2jac1 double mutants would be impaired in both the accumulation and the avoidance responses, like the phot2jac1 double mutant (CITATION). The leaf transmittance changes in response to high fluence rates (20 and 50 μmol m−2 s−1) were smaller in web1-2 and pmi2-3 than in WT (FIG-REF). Unlike phot2-1jac1-2 (FIG-REF), both web1-2jac1-2 and pmi2-3jac1-2 showed leaf transmittance kinetics similar to jac1-2 (FIG-REF), indicating that the jac1 mutation suppressed the web1 and pmi2 mutant phenotypes. In other words, JAC1 repressed the avoidance response in the web1 and pmi2 mutants; accordingly, their chloroplasts exhibited a weak avoidance response (FIG-REF). Like JAC1 gene, PHOT1 gene is involved only in accumulation response, but not avoidance response (CITATION–CITATION). However, the phot1 mutation did not suppress the web1 and pmi2 mutant phenotypes (Fig. S6A). Thus, both WEB1 and PMI2 precisely maintain chloroplast movement velocity via suppression of JAC1 activity, but not phot1, in WT plants under strong light conditions (FIG-REF). Although physical interactions of WEB1 and PMI2 with JAC1 were also checked by Y2H assay, the interactions were not observed (Fig. S6B), suggesting that WEB1 and PMI2 suppress the JAC1 activity via unidentified factor (FIG-REF). A possible model to overview the genetic and physical interactions between the proteins involved in chloroplast photorelocation movement is shown in FIG-REF. To directly analyze chloroplast photorelocation movements in these mutants under a microscope, partial cell irradiation with a blue light microbeam was performed on mesophyll cells (CITATION). Chloroplasts in the web1 and pmi2 mutant cells moved away from the strong blue light (Movies S1, S2, S3, S4, and S5), but their velocities were approximately threefold slower than that of WT (Fig. S7A). The velocity of chloroplast movement in the web1wel1wel2wel3 quadruple mutant (Fig. S7B) did not differ significantly from that of the web1-2 single mutant (Fig. S7C), indicating that the WEB1 gene plays the predominant role in chloroplast movement compared with the other WEL genes. Unexpectedly, the accumulation response was also defective in web1 and pmi2 mutants, and their velocities were threefold slower than that of WT (Fig. S7D). These results indicate that both the web1 and the pmi2 mutants have much slower chloroplast velocities in both the avoidance and the accumulation responses. The amount of phot2 and red light-induced cytoplasmic motility was carefully studied in these mutant plants because these factors were previously reported to affect the velocity of chloroplast movement (CITATION, CITATION). Immunoblot analysis showed that the amount and membrane localization of the phototropins did not change in web1 and pmi2pmi15 mutants (Fig. S8A). Red light-induced cytoplasmic motility was normal in web1pmi2 mutants (Fig. S8B). Notably, previous studies showed that pmi2 retained normal mitochondrial movement (CITATION), and pmi2pmi15 double mutants showed normal accumulation and fractionation profile of KAC proteins regulating the velocity of chloroplast movement via cp-actin filaments (CITATION). Thus, WEB1–PMI2 complex maintains the chloroplast movement velocity by a mechanism other than those described above. When irradiated with strong blue light to induce the avoidance response in chloroplasts, cp-actin filaments relocalize to the leading edge of moving chloroplasts, and this process is regulated by the phototropins (CITATION). Because the difference in the cp-actin filament amounts between the front and rear ends of moving chloroplasts determines the velocity of chloroplast movement, we analyzed the dynamics of cp-actin filaments during chloroplast avoidance movement. In WT plants, whole cp-actin filaments inside the ROI disappeared after irradiation with strong blue light and then reappeared only at the leading edge of moving chloroplasts outside the ROI (FIG-REF). In contrast, cp-actin filaments were constitutively present in the web1, pmi2, and web1pmi2 mutant cells and did not disappear, even inside the ROI, after irradiation with strong blue light (FIG-REF). These results suggest that cp-actin dynamics are defective in web1 and pmi2 mutant cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant culture, the mutant screen, and map-based cloning were performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Full-length cDNAs were isolated by the 5′ and 3′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends method, according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). RT-PCR analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION). Chloroplast photorelocation movement was analyzed by WBA in a growth chamber with a 3.6-kW xenon lamp (Ushio) and by the microbeam irradiation method with a custom-made system (CITATION). Immunoblotting, fluorescent protein, and Y2H analyses are described in SI Materials and Methods. SI Materials and Methods includes full methods and any associated references.
