!~ABS~! Multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system which only affects humans. This makes it difficult to study at a molecular level, and to develop and test potential therapies that may change the course of the disease. The development of therapies to promote remyelination in multiple sclerosis is a key research aim, to both aid restoration of electrical impulse conduction in nerves and provide neuroprotection, reducing disability in patients. Testing a remyelination therapy in the many and various in vivo models of multiple sclerosis is expensive in terms of time, animals and money. We report the development and characterisation of an ex vivo slice culture system using mouse brain and spinal cord, allowing investigation of myelination, demyelination and remyelination, which can be used as an initial reliable screen to select the most promising remyelination strategies. We have automated the quantification of myelin to provide a high content and moderately-high-throughput screen for testing therapies for remyelination both by endogenous and exogenous means and as an invaluable way of studying the biology of remyelination.
!~RES~! Slices of cerebellum, brainstem and spinal cord between 200 and 300 μm in thickness are taken from postnatal day 1–2 mice and placed in culture ( CITATION A ). Myelination occurs readily, and is extensive by 10 days in vitro (DIV). The gliotoxin lysophosphatidyl choline (LPC) is added at 10 DIV for 15–20 h which leads to almost complete demyelination 24 h after LPC is removed. After 14 additional days in culture (25 DIV), myelin sheaths reappear in conjunction with contactin-associated protein (Caspr) localised at the paranodes around a node, suggestive of a mature myelin internode ( CITATION E ). The angle of cutting the sections is critical, and requires sagittal sections to minimise nerve fibre damage. Cerebellar slices are much more successful if not detached from the brainstem ( CITATION B), possibly related to both the maintained connectivity of Purkinje cells and the higher concentration of OPCs in brainstem than cerebellum. Only slices with a maintained neural architecture should be used, for reasons of consistency, which in our hands amounts to about four cerebellar slices attached to brainstem, and three spinal cord slices per mouse. Using these criteria for selection of the slices, the results are consistent between multiple experiments. The concentration and time of LPC addition is also critical as too high a concentration or too long an application also causes axon degeneration. Spinal cord, with its densely packed myelin sheaths ( CITATION C), requires a longer application of LPC before complete demyelination, probably due to slower LPC penetration (see CITATION ). In MS, cells at the heart of the demyelinating lesion die, activated microglia/macrophages migrate to the lesion to clear this debris, OPCs migrate to the lesions, proliferate and then differentiate to successfully remyelinate the lesion. OPCs are present in slice cultures as shown by antibody staining to NG2 and are retained after LPC treatment ( CITATION A). At 25 DIV, we saw mature oligodendrocytes myelinating axons, (MBP positive, CITATION B) with clear internodes, heminodes and nodes of Ranvier, flanked by paranodes, identified by tightly localised Caspr expression ( CITATION E). This is suggestive immunohistochemical evidence that maturation of the myelin sheath occurs, with the formation of specialised nodal and paranodal structures. Cells with a Schwann cell phenotype, the effectors of myelination in the peripheral nervous system, do not myelinate axons in this system as seen by the absence of staining with a periaxin antibody (data not shown). Activated microglia/macrophages are seen in these cultures, as shown by antibodies to CD68 ( CITATION C). In MS lesions, macrophages are also recruited from the blood, which is absent in our model, but there are sufficient resident microglia/macrophages to clear most debris. Axonal bulbs, indicative of axonal damage, are sometimes seen after demyelination in our slice model. These are reminiscent of those seen in MS lesions ( CITATION ) ( CITATION D). Using antibodies against the marker of proliferation PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen), we showed that treatment with LPC causing demyelination provoked a proliferative response, which subsided with remyelination. The number of proliferating cells in cerebellar/brainstem slices increased 3.2 fold the day after demyelination (DM) (12 DIV) compared to at 10 DIV in control myelinated (M) slices. At 25 DIV (remyelination), the number of proliferating cells had returned to levels indistinguishable from control myelinated slices (M) ( CITATION A–D ). Some of these proliferating cells are oligodendroglial cells as shown by using antibodies to Olig2 and Nkx2.2. The number of cells double positive for Olig2 and PCNA increased 2.4-fold the day after demyelination (DM) (12 DIV) compared to at 10 DIV in control myelinated (M) slices. At 25 DIV (remyelination), the number of proliferating cells had returned to levels indistinguishable from control myelinated slices (M) ( CITATION A–C, E). Similar results were seen with immunohistochemistry to Nkx2.2 (data not shown). Therefore, demyelination stimulates oligodendroglial proliferation in slice cultures as well as in MS brain. This increase in proliferation of OPCs was also seen by using BrdU incorporation, with a 3.7-fold increase in BrdU-positive OPCs the day after demyelination (DM) (12 DIV), compared to at 10 DIV in control myelinated (M) slices, returning to basal rates at 25 DIV (remyelination) ( CITATION F and G). Addition of PDGF, a known stimulus of OPC proliferation in vitro ( CITATION ) and in vivo ( CITATION ), further promotes proliferation in slice cultures, both at 10 DIV, with a 2.4-fold increase in the basal rate of proliferation, and after demyelination (12 DIV), with a 1.2-fold increase in numbers of proliferating cells compared to slices in the absence of PDGF ( CITATION F and G). All cultures are grown in 25% horse serum, containing some PDGF and other growth factors, but even so, addition of exogenous PDGF caused an increase in proliferation over and above that of control cultures. We considered the possibility that the apparent return of myelin sheaths in our slice system represents myelination of previously unmyelinated nerve fibres. Remyelinated myelin sheaths are thinner and have shorter internodal lengths compared to myelin sheaths formed in development ( CITATION ). To investigate whether the return of myelin sheaths after LPC treatment represents genuinely remyelinated fibres, we performed electron microscopy on cerebellar slices, to measure G-ratios ( CITATION A–C ). Myelinated fibres were measured after 10 DIV and “remyelinated” fibres at 25 DIV, with demyelination on day 10. The G ratio represents the ratio of the diameter of the axon to the diameter of the myelinated fibre and allows comparison of myelin thickness for different axon sizes. There was a marked difference between the groups, with “remyelinated” fibres having higher G ratios and thus thinner myelin sheaths. The curves of best fit through the points are shown in CITATION D, and these are statistically significantly different using the maximum likelihood ratio test (p < 0.05). We measured the lengths of the myelin sheaths in both cerebellum and spinal cord, by measuring the distance between paranodes, labelled with anti-Caspr antibodies. We saw that the frequency of short myelin sheaths at 25 DIV (with demyelination on day 10) was much higher than in initial myelination (10 DIV) ( CITATION E and F). The Caspr staining of paranodes, which reappears in remyelination, plus the compaction of the myelin sheaths seen by electron microscopy, suggests that these remyelinated fibres are mature. Fully formed nodes of Ranvier were also identified ( CITATION C). Thus, myelin sheaths that reappear after LPC treatment are thinner and shorter than before, pathognomonic of remyelination. There is no previously published automated quantification of myelin sheaths. Previously, the amount of myelination has been measured by measuring CNPase activity ( CITATION ), but this is a marker of differentiation of oligodendrocytes, rather than the presence of myelin sheaths. Similarly, an approach using a beta-galactosidase luminometric assay in a transgenic mouse expressing LacZ under the MBP promoter only measures MBP expression rather than the formation of myelin sheaths ( CITATION ). The amount of immunofluorescence staining for MBP has also been used ( CITATION ) but this does not allow for the number of axons present (a prerequisite for remyelination), and MBP is present in oligodendrocyte processes and cell bodies as well as myelin sheaths. Recently, it was also described that retinoic acid increased MBP mRNA and protein expression in Schwann cell bodies in the peripheral nervous system, but reduced myelinated internodes ( CITATION ), indicating that MBP protein alone is not an ideal measure of myelination. A fast, accurate, objective and automatic quantification of the amount of myelin is essential in order to use our model to study factors influencing myelination or remyelination in a high-throughput manner. To determine the amount of myelin per axon, we used immunohistochemistry to stain the structural myelin protein, MBP, in green and the axonal protein NFH in red ( CITATION A ). As MBP also stains oligodendrocyte cell bodies and non-myelinating processes, we measured the overlap between red and green staining at ×40 objective, to quantify only MBP staining overlying axons — the myelin sheaths. We have capitalised on the fact that at this resolution, MBP staining appears to overlie NFH staining, which is lost at higher resolution. We used Image Pro Plus software to write a macro to count pixels which are both red and green above a defined intensity overlap ( CITATION B) for each layer within a confocal stack, producing a “mask” ( CITATION C). We exclude extremely small areas of overlap to exclude artefact, forming an “enhanced mask” representing myelinated internodes ( CITATION D). The number of pixels in the “enhanced mask” is divided by the number of red pixels in the photograph of neurofilament staining only ( CITATION E and F), obtaining the “Myelination Index”. With this macro, analysis of a stack of images takes around 10 s. This method is fast, objective (not influenced by user preconceptions) and avoids counting most cell bodies. To test whether this quantification system is sensitive enough to detect changes in myelination, we used it to measure myelination in the cerebellar slice system at 4 DIV, 8 DIV and 12 DIV. The myelination index increases in a linear way with time, with significant differences between each time point ( CITATION A ) (ANOVA plus Dunnett's multiple comparison test *p < 0.01). Addition of various factors to in vitro co-culture models of developmental myelination have been shown to alter myelination. However, several of these factors fail to affect remyelination in in vivo models (summarised and referenced in CITATION ). We tested these known factors in our cerebellar slice model for their influence on remyelination, in order to test the fidelity of our slice system to the in vivo situation. We tested two factors which promote the proliferation of OPCs and decrease myelination in vitro but do not affect myelination in vivo : Platelet Derived Growth Factor (PDGF) and Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF). We used NRG1, NRG1 type 3 and DAPT (which inhibits γ-secretase), as these promote myelination in culture, though are not effective in remyelination in vivo . We used 9-cis retinoic acid (9cRA) which promotes remyelination in vivo , and the Retinoic acid receptor X (RXR) antagonist PA452, which reduces myelination in vitro ( CITATION ). We also used two specific RXR agonists (HX630 and PA025) to show that the effect was specific to the RXR receptor. Each of these factors was added 24 h after the removal of LPC from the culture, and replenished every second day. The myelination index for each factor tested in the slice model is shown in CITATION B. As summarised in CITATION , we found that only factors influencing remyelination in vivo influenced remyelination in our slice model. Of note, we found that although PDGF addition promoted OPC proliferation ( CITATION F and G), as found in vitro ( CITATION ), it did not change the rate of remyelination in our slice model, which is reflected in its failure to improve remyelination in vivo ( CITATION ). This suggests that use of our slice model of remyelination, using the myelination index for quantification, is predictive of the in vivo effect, both in positively predicting those that have an in vivo effect and negatively predicting those that do not. Therapies to enhance remyelination aim to either stimulate remyelination by endogenous oligodendroglial cells, or aim to add exogenous cells to fulfil this role. Purified rat OPCs added to mouse cerebellar slices treated with cytosine arabinoside to prevent endogenous myelination, previously achieved some successful myelination presumed to be myelination of mouse axons by rat oligodendroglial cells ( CITATION ). We tested whether manipulated exogenous OPCs added to slices can incorporate into the structure, mature and myelinate. We transduced mouse OPCs with lentivirus expressing GFP and pipetted these directly onto cerebellar slices. After 14 days, some GFP-positive OPCs were attached only to the culture membrane, or the edge of the slice, but others penetrated into the slice tissue and myelinated axons ( CITATION F). We have similarly achieved myelination by adding GFP-positive neurospheres to slices. Thus endogenous and exogenous OPCs form myelin sheaths in our slice model, allowing testing of therapies enhancing both strategies for improving remyelination.
!~MM~! Animal work was carried out in accordance with the University of Edinburgh regulations under Home Office rules, with local ethical committee consent. P1–P2 mouse pups were decapitated, and their brains or spinal cords were dissected into ice-cold Hank's Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS). 200–300 μm sagittal slices of cerebellum, brainstem or spinal cord were cut using a McIlwain tissue chopper. The slices were placed on Millipore Millicell-CM organotypic culture inserts (Fisher) in medium containing 50% MEM with Earle's salts, 25% Earle's Balanced Salt Solution, 25% heat-inactivated horse serum (HIHS), glutamax-II supplement with penicillin–streptomycin, amphotericin B (all purchased from Invitrogen) and 6.5 mg/ml glucose (Sigma). Medium was changed every two days. After 10 days in culture, demyelination was induced by addition of 0.5 mg/ml lysophosphatidylcholine (lysolecithin, LPC, Sigma) to the medium for 15–20 h, after which slices were transferred back into normal medium. Cerebellar slice cultures require around 16 h, whereas brainstem and spinal cord cultures require around 18 h of incubation. Concentrations of LPC higher than this are also toxic to axons. Medium containing factors was added 12 h later. Factors used were Platelet Derived Growth Factor (PDGF) (10 ng/ml, teproTech Inc.), Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) (10 ng/ml, teproTech Inc.), Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) (10 ng/ml, R&D Systems), NRG1-III (10 ng/ml, R&D Systems), DAPT (gamma secretase inhibitor, 5 μM, CalBiochem), 9-cis retinoic acid (9cRA, 50 nM, Sigma), 9cRA agonists HX630 and PA024, and 9cRA antagonist PA452 (1 μM, 500 nM, 5 μM respectively, kindly supplied by Hiroyuki Kagechika). Cultures were maintained for a further 14 days, and then processed for immunolabelling. For proliferation assays, BRDU (Roche) was added for 16 h to the culture medium before fixation at DIV10 (myelination M), DIV12 (demyelination DM) and DIV25 (remyelination RM). Slices were fixed while attached to membranes with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 1 h, rinsed in PBS for 10 min thrice, and blocked with 3% HIHS, 2% bovine serum albumin (BSA), and 0.5% Triton X-100 in PBS for 1 h. Slices were then incubated in primary antibody overnight, washed once for 10 min and then thrice for 1 h. The slices were then incubated in secondary antibody overnight, washed thrice and mounted. The antibodies Nkx2.2 and PCNA required antigen retrieval before incubation with the primary antibody, by microwaving in Vector H-3300 antigen unmasking solution (Vector Laboratories) for 5 min. Antibodies used include: contactin associated protein (Caspr, mouse, 1 in 500, Abcam), CD68 (mouse, 1 in 200, Serotec), myelin basic protein (MBP, rat, 1 in 500, Serotec), neurofilament (NFH, chick, 1 in 50,000, EnCor), Neuronin N (NeuN, 1 in 300, Chemicon), Nkx2.2 (rabbit, 1 in 200, Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, University of Iowa), NG2 (mouse, 1 in 200, Chemicon), Olig2 (goat, 1 in 40, R & D systems), Periaxin (1 in 2000, Repeat Periaxin antibody, kindly supplied by P.J. Brophy), PCNA (rabbit, 1 in 2000, Abcam) and BrdU (mouse, 1 in 500, Chemicon). Appropriate fluorescent secondary antibodies were used (Alexa Fluor, Invitrogen). Samples were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M sodium cacodylate buffer, pH 7.3, for 2 h, washed in PBS and post-fixed in 1% osmium tetroxide in 0.1 M sodium cacodylate for 45 min. The samples were then dehydrated in increasing concentrations of acetone and embedded in Araldite resin. Sections, 1 μm thick, were cut on a Reichert OMU4 ultramicrotome (Leica Microsystems), stained with toluidine blue and viewed in a light microscope to select suitable areas for investigation. Ultrathin sections, 60 nm thick were cut from selected areas, stained in uranyl acetate and lead citrate and then viewed in a Phillips CM120 Transmission electron microscope (FEI). Images were taken on a Gatan Orius CCD camera (Gatan). The perimeter of the axon and the outer border of the myelin sheath was traced and measured with Image Pro Plus software (Media Cybernetics). The G ratio was obtained by dividing these values. The axon diameter was measured by taking the average length of diameters measured at 2° intervals and passing through the centre of the axon. The Maximum Likelihood Test was used to test the likelihood that the two G-ratio regression lines were statistically different. Confocal microscopy was used to obtain stacks of photographs of MBP and NFH immunolabelling at 1 μm intervals in white matter areas at ×40 magnification. Slices thinned after culture for 25 days to approximately 30 μm thickness. Myelinated fibres are best observed between a depth of 5 μm to 20 μm from the upper surface and all our results were taken from this level. A macro was written with Image Pro Plus software (Media Cybernetics) to automate quantification of the myelination index. The photographs were merged at each level in the stack and the pixels where there was overlap of red and green within a predefined intensity were highlighted forming a mask of co-localization. Very small areas of pixels positive for overlap were excluded automatically to avoid artefact (area under 30 pixels, area of 1 pixel = 72264 nm 2 ). Then, the area covered by positive (overlapping) pixels was measured. A similar procedure was performed for NFH staining and the two measurements divided to form the “Myelination Index” — as a measure of the amount of myelin sheath per axon area. The macro written within the programme platform performs all these steps automatically, in around 10 s per image stack. Comparison of the effect of factors on the Myelination Index and proliferation was analysed statistically using ANOVA, followed by the Dunnett's Multiple Comparison Test. Data comparing multiple factors on the Myelination Index is presented normalised to the control group (no additive) which is given the Myelination Index of 1. Internodal lengths were measured from merges of photographs of slices stained with MBP, NFH and Caspr, and the distance between Caspr staining at paranodes was traced using ImageJ. Comparison of the frequency-distribution of internode length was analysed statistically using the Kolmogorov–Smirnov Test for non-normally distributed data. Mouse OPCs were isolated using the shake-off method described previously ( CITATION ) and plated onto poly- d -lysine coated 6 well plates. Lentivirus containing a GFP sequence with a post-transcriptional enhancer under the Cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter (engineered from Invitrogen pLenti6) and with a Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV) envelope protein, was added to the OPCs at a concentration of 50 particles per cell for 4 h (kindly provided by Pamela Brown). OPCs were maintained in a proliferative state for 2 days with addition of PDGF (10 ng/μl) and FGF (10 ng/μl) and 2% foetal calf serum in Dulbecco's modified Eagles medium. The cells were then trypsinised using TrypLE express solution (Gibco) for 5 min, spun down at 1000 rpm and resuspended in slice culture medium. These cells were pipetted directly onto slices (approximately 10,000 to each slice) and the cultures maintained for 14 days. GFP-containing oligodendrocytes were visible directly with a fluorescent microscope, and the cultures were co-stained for MBP and NFH as described above.
