!~ABS~! Xyloglucan is the dominant hemicellulosic polysaccharide of the primary cell wall of dicotyledonous plants that plays a key role in plant development. It is well established that xyloglucan is assembled within Golgi stacks and transported in Golgi-derived vesicles to the cell wall. It is also known that the biosynthesis of xyloglucan requires the action of glycosyltransferases including α-1,6-xylosyltransferase, β-1,2-galactosyltransferase and α-1,2-fucosyltransferase activities responsible for the addition of xylose, galactose and fucose residues to the side chains. There is, however, a lack of knowledge on how these enzymes are distributed within subcompartments of Golgi stacks. We have undertaken a study aiming at mapping these glycosyltransferases within Golgi stacks using immunogold-electron microscopy. To this end, we generated transgenic lines of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 suspension-cultured cells expressing either the α-1,6-xylosyltransferase, AtXT1, the β-1,2-galactosyltransferase, AtMUR3, or the α-1,2-fucosyltransferase AtFUT1 of Arabidopsis thaliana fused to green-fluorescent protein (GFP). Localization of the fusion proteins within the endomembrane system was assessed using confocal microscopy. Additionally, tobacco cells were high pressure-frozen/freeze-substituted and subjected to quantitative immunogold labelling using anti-GFP antibodies to determine the localization patterns of the enzymes within subtypes of Golgi cisternae. The data demonstrate that: (i) all fusion proteins, AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP are specifically targeted to the Golgi apparatus; and (ii) AtXT1–GFP is mainly located in the cis and medial cisternae, AtMUR3–GFP is predominantly associated with medial cisternae and AtFUT1–GFP mostly detected over trans cisternae suggesting that initiation of xyloglucan side chains occurs in early Golgi compartments in tobacco cells.
!~RES~! Prior to any expression or localization studies of XyG-synthesizing enzymes in BY-2 suspension-cultured cells, we performed a structural analysis of XyG isolated from the cell wall of these cells via the enzymatic oligosaccharide fingerprinting procedure as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). The population of xyloglucan oligosaccharides generated by endoglucanase treatment of BY-2 cell walls was analyzed by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. As described in suspension-cultured cells of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia (CITATION), the main ions were assigned to (M + Na)+ adducts of XXGG-type XyG fragments partially acetylated and substituted with arabinosyl residues (S) (Figure 1). In addition, minor non-fucosylated XXXG-type oligosaccharides were detected, including an acetylated monogalactosylated XXLG or XLXG fragment. [[FIGURE]] To establish the subcellular localization of XyG-glycosyltransferases, AtXT1, AtMUR3 and AtFUT1 in tobacco leaf epidermal cells using confocal microscopy, we created fluorescent protein fusions of these enzymes (see Materials and methods). All three glycosyltransferases are type II membrane-bound proteins containing a transmembrane domain and supposed to be localized in the Golgi apparatus. As illustrated in Figure 2, transformed tobacco epidermal cells with AtXT1–GFP (Figure 2a), AtMUR3–GFP (Figure 2d) or AtFUT1–GFP (Figure 2g) displayed a punctate pattern of GFP fluorescence, as would be expected from the dispersed organization of Golgi stacks in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). To confirm Golgi localization, we co-expressed each glycosyltransferase–GFP with the well known fluorescent Golgi marker, α2,6-sialyltransferase (ST) fused to YFP, in the same epidermal leaf cells. As shown in Figure 2(c, f, i), AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP fluorescence signals co-localized with ST–YFP fluorescence to punctate and mobile structures typical of Golgi bodies. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the localization of the glycosyltransferases in the Golgi bodies using transmission electron microscopy, we could not use transiently transformed epidermal cells, mostly because the transformation yield was very low. We therefore generated stably transformed tobacco-suspension-cultured BY-2 cells expressing AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP or AtFUT1–GFP at a high level (up to 90% of the cells expressed GFP). Then, we also studied the subcellular localization of the three fusion proteins in the stably transformed suspension cultured BY-2 cells using confocal imaging. In all cases and as for transiently expressed cells, we observed fluorescent and mobile spots (of 1 μm in size) consistent with Golgi localization for AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP (Figure 2j, k, l). None of the transient or stably transformed cells showed any additional fluorescence in any other organelles of the endomembrane system. These data demonstrate that AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP of arabidopsis have Golgi localization in tobacco leaf epidermal and suspension-cultured cells. We first examined the quality of ultrastructural preservation of BY-2 suspension-cultured cells prepared by high pressure freezing and freeze-substitution in acetone containing 0.5% uranyl acetate (but no osmium), and embedded in London Resin White (LRW) for immunocytochemistry. As shown in Figure 3(a), BY-2 cells exhibited very well preserved subcellular structures including the nucleus, nuclear membrane, mitochondria, vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum, secretory vesicles and Golgi stacks. In the context of this paper, Golgi stacks were clearly distinguishable and their organization was typical of plant suspension-cultured cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Also and as illustrated in Figure 3(b,c), were consistently discernable based on their very well characterized ultrastructure as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Cis cisternae exhibited the most irregular contour, were faintly stained and had the widest lumen. Medial cisternae had a narrower lumen, were more elongated and picked up more stain than cis cisternae. There is often a gradation of luminal staining of the medial cisternae in a cis-to-trans direction. Trans cisternae presented a very thin, collapsed lumen that is always densely stained even more than medial cisternae. The trans-Golgi network was observed as a branched tubulo-vesicular structure that is frequently, but not systematically, located close to trans cisternae consistent with previous findings (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Prior to any investigation of XyG-synthesizing enzymes at the electron microscopical level, we immunolocalized XyG epitopes in tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells using confocal imaging and immunogold electron microscopy with the mAb CCRC-M86 (kindly provided by Prof. M. Hahn; University of Georgia, USA), which recognizes non-fucosylated xyloglucan (CITATION). On immunodot assay, the CCRC-M86 antibody reacted strongly with native tamarind XyG but not with a hydrolyzed sample of the polymer (Figure S1 in Supporting Information). It also reacted with XyG isolated from tobacco suspension-cultured cells. Confocal imaging of immunostained cells with the mAb CCRC-M86 showed a punctate fluorescence in the cytosol and a quite uniform staining at the cell surface (Figure 4a,b). This is consistent with the CCRC-M86-recognized XyG-associated epitopes being located in Golgi stacks and cell wall, two compartments where XyG is known to occur. [[FIGURE]] Immunogold labelling of cryo-fixed BY-2 cultured cells showed XyG epitopes over Golgi stacks and in the cell wall (Figure 4c,d). Gold particles were mainly found over medial and trans cisternae, the trans-Golgi network and Golgi-derived transport vesicles. Also, labelling of the cell wall was mostly associated with the closest zone to the plasma membrane (Figure 4d). In contrast, no labelling was found in BY-2 cells using the mAb CCRC-M1 (data not shown) specific for an α-l-Fucp-(1–2)-β-d-Galp epitope of XyG, consistent with the previously published data showing that tobacco XyG does not contain fucosyl residues (CITATION). Once we confirmed Golgi localization of XyG epitopes and glycosyltransferases using confocal microscopy (see above), we investigated distribution of the enzymes within Golgi cisternae using immunogold-electron microscopy. Labelling of AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP was performed by employing anti-GFP antibodies in stably transformed BY-2 cells prepared by HPF/FS technique. Immunogold labelling was quantified over each Golgi cisterna (fifty Golgi stacks with distinguishable cisternal subtypes) and subjected to chi-squared (χ2) test to check for labelling specificity in transformed BY-2 cells versus wild type. The relative labelling index (RLI) was also determined to evaluate specific gold particles distribution within different subtypes of Golgi cisternae (CITATION) (see Materials and methods). Immunogold labelling of Golgi stacks of AtXT1–GFP transgenic BY-2 cultured cells with anti-GFP antibodies is illustrated in Figure 5(a,b). Gold particles were mainly localized over cis- and medial-Golgi cisternae and also in transport vesicles associated with Golgi margins. [[FIGURE]] Quantification of labelling and chi-square test were performed (Table 1a) to confirm the specificity of the signal in cells expressing AtXT1–GFP BY-2 versus wild type cells. The total chi-squared value (31.28) was found to be superior to that of the contingency table, = 12.38 (with a degree of freedom of 3 and an uncertainty degree α = 0.005) indicating that labelling is specific in Golgi stacks. In addition, distribution of GFP-tagged AtXT1 within subtypes of Golgi cisternae in transformed cells was assigned based on RLI determination. The RLI values for cis and medial cisternae were found to be superior to 1 (1.66 for cis cisternae and 1.27 for medial cisternae; see Table 1b), indicating a specific and preferential labelling of these two Golgi compartments with anti-GFP antibodies. Quantification of labelling was done on 68 Golgi stacks for each line. The total chi-squared value (24.83 + 6.44) compared with that of contingency table analysis, with a degree of freedom of 3, confirms specificity of gold particles distribution between wild-type and transformed cells. aIdentify Golgi compartments that are preferentially labelled. Localization of AtMUR3 was performed using the same procedure. Immunogold labelling of Golgi stacks of AtMUR3–GFP transgenic BY-2 cultured cells with anti-GFP antibodies is shown in Figure 6(a,b). Gold particles were also mainly localised in Golgi stacks and seemed to be preferentially in the medial-Golgi cisternae. Quantification of labelling and chi-square tests were performed as for cells expressing AtXT1–GFP (see above). The total chi-squared value (25.69), was found to be greater than that of the contingency table, = 12.38 (with a degree of freedom of 3 and an uncertainty degree α = 0.005) indicating that labelling in Golgi stacks is specific (Table 2a). In addition, analysis of AtMUR3–GFP distribution based on RLI determination indicates a preferential labelling of medial cisternae (RLI value 1.67 for medial cisternae; see Table 2b). [[FIGURE]] Quantification of labelling was done on 57 Golgi stacks for each line. The total chi-squared value (20.19 + 5.50) compared with that of contingency table analysis, with a degree of freedom of 3, confirms specificity of gold particles distribution between wild-type and transformed cells. aIdentify Golgi compartments that are preferentially labeled. Quantification of immunogold labelling, of Golgi stacks in transgenic BY-2 cultured cells expressing AtFUT1–GFP, and a chi-squared test were performed as for AtXT1–GFP and AtMUR3–GFP. The total chi-squared value (22.41), was found to be superior compared with that of the contingency table, = 12.38 (with a degree of freedom of 3 and an uncertainty degree α = 0.005) indicating that labelling in Golgi stacks is specific (Table S1 in Supporting Information). The RLI values were found to be 1.00 for cis cisternae, 0.84 for medial cisternae, 1.61 for trans cisternae and 0.97 for the TGN. The data indicate a preferential labelling of trans-Golgi cisternae as the RLI is superior to 1. Together the immunogold labelling data coupled to quantitative and statistical analysis of the binding pattern of GFP indicate that in tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells, the AtXT1 is mostly located in cis and medial cisternae, whereas AtMUR3 and ATFUT1 are predominantly associated with medial- and trans-Golgi cisternae, respectively.
!~MM~! Suspension cells of Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) were cultured in the Murashige and Skoog liquid medium (Sigma M5524, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com): 4.3 g L−1 in sucrose 30 g L−1, KH2PO4 100 mg L−1, myo-inositol 51 mg L−1, thiamine 1 mg L−1, 2.4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 0.22 mg L−1, pH 5.6, in dark, at 22°C, 140 rpm. Cells were subcultured every week by transferring 10 ml of suspension cells in 150 ml of fresh medium. Nicotiana tabacum plants were grown in soil in a growth chamber under a 16 h photoperiod condition, 22–24°C and 60% relative humidity. Seven- to 8-week-old plants were used for the subcellular localization studies. BY-2 suspension cells (15 g fresh weight) were filtered and crushed in liquid nitrogen, then heated at 70°C for 30 min in 25 ml of 96% ethanol, before being centrifuged at 5500 g for 15 min. The pellet was solubilized in 25 ml 96% ethanol and homogenized in a potter (Tenbroeck), before heating again at 70°C for 15 min and centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min. The pellet, called cell wall residue (CWR), was freeze-dried. To remove lipids, the CWR was mixed with chloroform/methanol (1:1 v/v) for 24 h, filtered, washed with acetone and dried at 45°C (see CITATION). The alkali-soluble hemicellulosic fraction was extracted from the CWR as previously described by CITATION. Briefly, CWR was treated sequentially with 0.1% CDTA (trans-1.2-diaminocyclohexane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetic acid) and 4 m KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4. The 4 m KOH hemicellulosic extract was neutralized with 10% (v/v) of acetic acid, dialyzed and finally freeze-dried. XyG fragments were generated by treating 2 mg of cell wall extract with 5 units of endo (1→4)-β-d-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.4, Megazyme International, http://www.megazyme.com) in 500 μl of 10 mm ammonium acetate buffer, pH 5, overnight at 37°C. Glucanase-resistant material was removed by centrifugation after addition of EtOH to reach a final concentration of 80%. The EtOH soluble XyG oligosaccharides were evaporated and concentrated under a stream of air. MALDI-TOF MS of the XyG oligosaccharides generated by endoglucanase was recorded on a Voyager DE-Pro MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com) equipped with a nitrogen laser operating at 337 nm. Mass spectra were performed in the reflector delayed extraction mode using 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) as matrix. The matrix, freshly dissolved at 5 mg ml−1 in a 70:30 acetonitrile/0.1% TFA, was mixed with the water solubilized oligosaccharides in a ratio 1:1 (v/v). These spectra were recorded in a positive mode, using an acceleration voltage of 20 000 V with a delay time of 100 ns and above 50% of the laser energy. One thousand shots were accumulated for one spectrum and the data presented here are the sum of 5 acquired spectrum. The spectra were externally calibrated using commercially available peptides mixture from Applied Biosystems (SequazymeTM Peptide Mass Standard kit). The coding sequence of AtXT1, AtMUR3 and AtFUT1, were amplified by PCR without the stop codon using respectively. Forward BamH1 (5′-CGCGGATCCCGATGATAGAGAAGTGTATAGGA-3′) and Reverse Nhe1 (5′-CTAGCTAGCCGTCGTCGTCGTACTAAGCTT-3′) primers for AtXT1; Forward Kpn1 (5′- GGGGTACCCCATGTTTCCAAGGGTTTCT-3′) and Reverse Nhe1 (5′- CTAGCTAGCCTGTGTCTTATCTCTCTG-3′) primers for MUR3; Forward BamH1 (5′-CGCGGATCCCGATGGATCAGAATTCGTACAGG-3′) and Reverse Spe1 (5′-GGACTAGTTACTAGCTTAAGTCCCCAGCT-3′) primers for AtFUT1. The SALK cDNA clones were used as template (respectively U14458, S81470 and U24263). Then, the amplified cDNA were introduced into the pBLTI221 (CITATION) binary vector containing the sGFP, allowing a fusion of the protein to the Nter part of the sGFP, and each resulting construct was verified by sequencing. Finally, each cassette containing the chimeric protein was introduced into pBLTI121 binary vector to allow plant transformation. The generated plasmids were transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101 pMP90) by heat shock, and transformed agrobacterium were selected on YEB medium (beef extract 5 g L−1, yeast extract 1 g L−1, sucrose 5 g L−1, MgSO4.7H2O 0.5 g L−1) containing kanamycin (100 mg L−1).Transformation of N. tabacum (cv BY-2) cells was performed as described by CITATION. Transformed cells were selected on the Murashige and Skoog medium (see above) containing kanamycin (100 mg L−1) and cefotaxime (250 mg L−1) and only micro-calli expressing GFP, screened for their fluorescence by confocal microscopy, were used to initiate suspension cultures. Transformation of leaves of N. tabacum was obtained as follows: the agrobacteria were cultured for 20 h at 28°C in YEB media and then centrifuged at 3700 g to concentrate them. The excess medium was eliminated and the initial density of OD600 was measured. Then, each construct was resuspended in an infiltration medium (MES 10 mm, MgCl2 10 mm, Acetosyringone 100 μm) to obtain a final density of OD600 = 0.1 for Sialyltransferase::YFP (ST-YFP represents the first 52 amino acid of a rat α-2,6-sialyltransferase). AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP fusion proteins were tested with a final density of OD600 = 0.1–0.8. Finally, ST-YFP and the AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP and AtFUT1–GFP were incubated together for 1 h at room temperature before the co-infiltration in leaves. Microscopic observation of leaf epidermal cells was made 2 days after infiltration. Subcellular localization of fusion proteins were examined using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. GFP fluorescence of epidermal cells and suspension cultured cells were imaged using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm with the emission wavelength at 500–520 nm. For colocalization of sGFP and YFP-venus in epidermal cells, a 488 and 514 nm argon ion laser were used simultaneously. Fluorescence signals were separated using an acoustic-optical beam splitter; emission signal was 495–510 nm for sGFP and 540–580 nm for YFP-venus. The power of each laser, gain and offset were identical for each experiment to compare images. Appropriate controls were performed to exclude the possibility of crosstalk between the two fluorochromes before image acquisition. Five microliters containing 10 μg of purified xyloglucan from tamarind seeds, or 5–50 μg of tobacco BY-2 cell wall are deposited on PVDF membrane. The membrane saturation was done overnight in PBS buffer (137 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 100 mm Na2HPO4, 2 mm KH2PO4 pH 7.5) + half milk 5%. The mAbs CCRC-M86 (kindly provided by Dr M. Hahn, Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University of Georgia, USA) and CCRC-M1 were diluted 1/10 in PBS + 5% dry milk, and the membrane was incubated at room temperature for 2 h. The mAb CCRC-M1 was used as a negative control, as it recognizes fucosylated xyloglucan. After washing in PBS + milk (3 × 10 min), the membrane was incubated 2 h in a secondary antibody 1/500 (Anti mouse polyvalent Ig Alkaline phosphatase conjugate – Sigma). The membrane was washed again 2 × 10 min in PBS + milk and 2 × 10 min in PBS, before signal detection using the ‘BCIP/NBT color development substrate’ from Promega (http://www.promega.com). Immunolocalization of XyG epitopes using the mAb CCRC-M86 at the confocal microscopy level was done on protoplasts. Protoplast preparation. Four-day-old BY-2 cells (400 μl) were plasmolyzed in 800 μl plasmolysis medium (20 mm MES buffer pH 5.6; 0.6 m mannitol; 0.5 mm CaCl2; 0.25 mm MgCl2) for 15–20 min. Then the cell wall was digested overnight at 25°C by incubation in 1 ml enzymatic mixture of 1% cellulase (Sigma) and 1% pectinase (Sigma) diluted in plasmolysis medium containing 0.1% bovine serum albumin (BSA). After three washes with plasmolysis medium, protoplasts were fixed 1 h on the glass slide with 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS (phosphate-buffered saline: 8 g L−1 NaCl, 0.29 g L−1 KCl, 1.45 g L−1 Na2HPO4, 0.24 g L−1 KH2PO4) and washed four times with PBS. Then, protoplasts were sequentially incubated 10 min with 0.5% Triton X100 in PBS, with 1% BSA and 3% half-milk in PBS, and washed three times with 3% BSA in PBS. Immunostaining and confocal microscopy. Protoplasts were incubated overnight at 4°C, with the primary antibody CCRC-M86 diluted at 1/10 in PBS containing 1% BSA, 3% normal goat serum (NGS). After six washes in PBS containing 1% BSA, protoplasts were incubated 1 h at 25°C with a secondary antibody (goat IgG anti-rat TRITC conjugate from Sigma) diluted at 1/50 in PBS containing 1% BSA, 3% NGS. Finally protoplasts were washed three times in PBS containing 1% BSA. Observation of XyG-epitope staining was done using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. TRITC fluorescence was imaged using an excitation wavelength of 543 nm with the emission wavelength at 565–585 nm. Pre-cooling treatment prior to HPF. Before use, 3-day-old tobacco (BY-2) suspension cultured cells were checked for their GFP expression based on fluorescence observation by confocal microscopy. GFP expressing cells were then concentrated on 50 μm nylon membrane and incubated successively in 5% and 10% glycerol for 1 h at +4°C. Cells were subsequently transferred to 20% glycerol and immediately frozen. High-pressure freezing. High-pressure freezing was performed with the freezer HPF–EM PACT I Leica-microsystems (CITATION). Tobacco BY-2 cells pre-treated were concentrated on 50 μm nylon membrane and transferred into the cavity of a copper ring used for cryofracture which is 100 μm in depth and 1.2 mm in diameter. Excess medium was lightly absorbed by filter paper. Using a horizontal loading station, the specimen carriers were tightened securely to the pod of specimen holder. After fixation on the loading device, specimens were frozen according to a maximum cooling rate of 10 000°C sec−1, incoming pressure of 7.5 bars and working pressure of 4.8 bars. Rings containing frozen samples were stored in liquid nitrogen until the freeze substitution procedure was initiated. Freeze substitution. After high-pressure freezing, samples were transferred to a freeze substitution automate (AFS, Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com) pre-cooled to −140°C. Freeze substitution conditions followed a modified procedure of CITATION. Samples were substituted in anhydrous acetone +0.5% uranyl acetate at −90°C for 72 h. The temperature was gradually raised (2°C h−1) to −60°C and stabilized during 12 h, then gradually raised (2°C h−1) to −30°C (12 h) and gradually raised again (2°C h−1) to −15°C for 2 h and finally rinsed twice with anhydrous ethanol. Infiltration was processed at −15°C in a solution containing ethanol:London Resin White (LRW) (ratio 2:1; 1:1; 1:2, 8 h each step) and with pure resin for 2 × 24 h. Polymerisation was performed into the AFS apparatus at −15°C under ultra violet light for 48 h. Ultrathin sections (50–70 nm; ultracut UCT, Leica) of tobacco cells were collected on to carbon-formvar-coated nickel grids and blocked in TBS (Tris-buffered saline: Tris–HCl 20 mm pH 7.2, 200 mm NaCl) supplemented with 0.2% of BSA and milk 3% for 30 min. Sections were then incubated with the monoclonal antibody CCRC-M86 at a 1/5 dilution in TBS + BSA and normal goat serum (NGS) for 3 h at room temperature. After washing in TBS + BSA 0.2% buffer, grids were incubated for 1 h at room temperature in the rat secondary antibody conjugated to 10-nm gold particles (Tebu-British Biocell International, http://www.tebu-bio.com). After washing and fixation in TBS + 2% glutaraldehyde, sections were first stained with 4% vapour osmium for 3 h followed by classical staining using uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Sections were observed in a Philips, FEI Tecnai 12 Biotwin transmission electron microscope operating at 80 kV, with ES500W Erlangshen CCD camera (Gatan). Ultrathin sections (50–70 nm; ultracut UCT, Leica, Vienna, Austria) of frozen cells expressing AtXT1–GFP, AtMUR3–GFP or AtFUT1–GFP fusion proteins were collected on to carbon-formvar-coated nickel grids and blocked in TBS (Tris–HCl 20 mm pH 7.2, 200 mm NaCl) supplemented with 0.2% of BSA and Tween 20 0.05% for 15 min. Sections were then incubated with the polyclonal anti-GFP antibody (BD living colors A.v peptide antibody – Clontech) at a 1/5 dilution in TBS + BSA and normal goat serum (NGS; British Biocell International) for 2 h at room temperature. After washing in TBS + BSA 0.2% buffer, grids were incubated for 1 h at room temperature in the rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to 10 nm gold particles (Tebu-British Biocell International). After washing and fixation in TBS + 2% GA, sections were stained as described above. Quantification, specificity and statistical analysis of Golgi labelling were assessed using the method of CITATION. Labelling specificity of signal in transformed BY-2 cells. To evaluate the distribution of gold particles in Golgi stacks of transformed cells as compared with wild type cells, we used a chi-squared test (CITATION). We considered the null hypothesis as ‘no difference of gold distribution between wild type and transformed cells’. We analyzed gold labelling in different compartments of Golgi stacks: cis, medial, trans and the TGN. To compare distribution of gold particles between the two tobacco lines in these compartments, we created a contingency table (two columns × four rows) as described in CITATION. In this analysis, the expected gold count at two line cells for each selected Golgi compartment are calculated from the product of column (total gold particles observed in all Golgi stacks for wild type or transformed tobacco line) and row totals (total gold particles observed in all BY-2 lines for the selected compartment) divided by the grand total (total gold particles observed in four Golgi compartments, in wild type and transformed BY-2 cells). The corresponding partial chi-squared value is calculated as the square of the difference between observed and expected gold particle numbers divided by the expected gold number. The total chi-squared value was compared with chi-squared value in contingency table analysis, with a degree of freedom equal to 3 (see CITATION). Quantification of labelling was done according to CITATION, on a total of 50 Golgi stacks with distinguishable subtypes of cisternae. First, gold particles were counted in each Golgi compartment (cis, medial, trans and the TGN) and represented the ‘observed golds particles’ (n0). Second, a lattice of test points was superimposed on each Golgi stacks (so as to be random in position); hit points were counted (‘Observed points’, P) in each compartment of Golgi stacks. Then, the ‘expected golds particles’ (ne) (i.e. random distribution) is calculated as followed: ne = (P × n0 total)/Ptotal. Observed and expected gold particles distributions allowed calculation of the relative labelling index: RLI (n0/ne) for each compartment. For a random distribution, the relative labelling index (RLI) is inferior or equal to 1, and for a compartment preferentially labelled RLI is superior to 1.
