!~ABS~! The photoreceptor phytochrome-A (phyA) regulates germination and seedling establishment by mediating very low fluence (VLFR) and far-red high irradiance (FR-HIR) responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. In darkness, phyA homodimers exist in the biologically inactive Pr form and are localized in the cytoplasm. Light induces formation of the biologically active Pfr form and subsequent rapid nuclear import. PhyA Pfr, in contrast to the Pr form, is labile and has a half-life of ∼30 min. We produced transgenic plants in a phyA-201 null background that express the PHYA–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) or the PHYA686–YFP–dimerization domain (DD) and PHYA686–YFP–DD–nuclear localization signal (NLS) or PHYA686–YFP–DD–nuclear exclusion signal (NES) fusion proteins. The PHYA686–YFP fusion proteins contained the N-terminal domain of phyA (686 amino acid residues), a short DD and the YFP. Here we report that (i) PHYA686–YFP–DD fusion protein is imported into the nucleus in a light-dependent fashion; (ii) neither of the PHYA686 fusion proteins is functional in FR-HIR and nuclear VLFR; and (iii) the phyA-dependent, blue light-induced inhibition of hypocotyl growth is mediated by the PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES but not by the PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD fusion proteins. We demonstrate that (i) light induces degradation of all PHYA N-terminal-containing fusion proteins and (ii) these N-terminal domain-containing fusion proteins including the constitutively nuclear PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and predominantly cytoplasmic PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES degrade at comparable rates but markedly more slowly than PHYA–YFP, whereas (iii) light-induced degradation of the native phyA is faster compared with PHYA–YFP.
!~RES~! To assess the regulatory role of the phyA N-terminal region in the VLFR and HIR type of signaling, we constructed two sets of chimeric gene constructs. First we amplified a 686 amino acid fragment containing the phyA N-terminal fragment that does not contain the Quail box shown to be involved in mediating phyA and phyB signaling (Wagner et al. CITATION), but carries all the domains which are necessary for the function of phyB in the nucleus (Matsushita et al. CITATION). Next, we constructed a chimeric gene encoding a fusion protein consisting of the PHYA N-terminal fragment followed by the YFP and a short (46 amino acids) DD of the transcription factor CPRF as described in Pfeiffer et al. (CITATION). To ensure targeted subcellular localization, we produced additional chimeric genes encoding the PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES fusion proteins. Next we produced transgenic plants in the phyA-201 mutant background expressing these fusion proteins and the full-length phyA protein fused to YFP. Expression of the transgenes was under the control of the native PHYA promoter localized on a 2.5 kb fragment. Schematic illustration of the domain structure of PHYA and the fusion proteins used in this study is shown in Fig.1A. We regenerated about 10 independent transgenic lines for each construct. The selected lines were bred to homozygocity and multiplied to facilitate functional characterization of the various fusion proteins for VLFR and FR-HIR signaling.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Before starting functional characterization, we determined the expression levels of the various fusion proteins in each of the homozygous transgenic lines by Western blot hybridization. After analyzing total protein extracts prepared from etiolated seedlings we chose lines that expressed these various fusion proteins (PHYA–YFP, PHYA686–YFP–DD, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES) at the most comparable levels (Fig. 1B). We note that (i) the expression level of PHYA686–YFP–DD and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS fusion proteins was constantly lower (about 5- to 10-fold) in all tested lines when compared with PHYA–YFP and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES (Supplementary Fig. S1) and that (ii) the expression level of the PHYA–YFP was sufficiently high to fully complement the phyA-201 mutant, in all aspects tested. These selected lines were then subjected to detailed physiological, microscopic and molecular analysis. First, we measured inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon size and unfolding in transgenic seedlings grown in darkness or under different intensities of cFR and R light. Fig. 1C and D demonstrate that etiolated seedlings expressing the various fusion proteins exhibited normal skotomorphogenesis. We found that the hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon size of PHYA686–YFP–DD-, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS- or PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES-expressing seedlings were not affected by cFR light (Fig. 2A, B) but showed normal hypocotyl growth inhibition in continuous R light (Supplementary Fig. S2). The phenotype of these transgenic seedlings was identical to that of the phyA-201 mutant, whereas the expression of PHYA:PHYA–YFP resulted in a complete complementation of the phyA-deficient mutant in cFR light. We used the same transgenic seedlings to measure the inducibility of a selected group of genes that had been shown to respond to cFR light treatment by Teppermann et al. (CITATION). Supplementary Fig. S3 shows that treatment of the seedlings expressing the PHYA686 N-terminal domain with 2 h cFR light did not increase the expression of the LHY1 and PRR9 genes above threshold levels. Taken together these data suggest that neither of the PHYA686–YFP–DD-containing fusion proteins is functional in FR-HIR.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The phyA VLFR mode of signaling has been implicated in regulating several aspects of seedling development, including abrogation of gravitropism (Poppe et al. 1997) and inhibition of hypocotyl elongation by repeated R and/or FR pulses (Casal et al.CITATION). First, we characterized a frequently used nuclear VLFR, namely the phyA-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation in response to repeated pulses of FR light. We found that none of the transgenic seedlings expressing PHYA686–YFP–DD responded to cyclic FR pulses (2 or 10 μmol s−1 m−2) given after various time (5 or 15 min) intervals of darkness, whereas the expression of PHYA:PHYA–YFP resulted in full complementation of the phyA-201 mutant (Fig. 3A, B). Next, we measured phyA-suppressed gravitropism of transgenic seedlings in cFR light. Supplementary Fig. S4 illustrates randomization of hypocotyl growth orientation by FR light in the wild type, phyA-201 and various transgenic lines. This figure shows that phyA-201 exhibited complete insensitivity toward FR light abrogation of gravitropism, whereas transgenic lines expressing the full-length PHYA–YFP fusion protein displayed sensitivity similar to that of the wild type. All other transgenic lines expressing the PHYA686–YFP–DD, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES fusion proteins showed a phenotype similar to that of the phyA-201 mutant, suggesting that these PHYA N-terminal fragments are also insufficient to mediate cFR light-induced gravitropism. In addition to these physiological responses, the ability of PHYA686–YFP fusion proteins to induce VLFR at the level of gene expression was also determined. It was found that irradiation of the various PHYA 686–YFP–DD-, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS- and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES-expressing lines with pulses of R light that yield 0.3, 0.6 and 3.7% phyA Pfr are not sufficient to bring about detectable increases in the abundance of PRR9 (Fig. 4A) and CAB2 mRNA (Fig. 4B). In contrast, the same treatment was clearly efficient in elevating the expression of PRR9 and CAB2 above threshold levels in the wild-type or phyA-201 lines expressing the full-length PHYA–YFP fusion proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Beside the above-described VLFRs that are thought to be mediated by phyA localized in the nucleus, we also characterized these transgenic lines for hypocotyl growth inhibition in continuous blue (cB) light. According to Rosler et al. (CITATION), this response is independent of FHY1/FHL, thus it is likely to be regulated by cytoplasmic phyA. Fig. 5 shows that the phenotype of wild-type and phyA-201 seedlings is indeed different in cB light and that the PHYA 686–YFP–DD–NES transgenic seedlings exhibited a phenotype similar to the wild type. In contrast, the same figure shows that the PHYA686–YFP–DD and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS seedlings did not respond to cB light. These data suggest that the PHYA686 N-terminal fragment constitutively localized in the cytoplasm is capable, at least partially, of mediating B light-induced phyA-regulated signaling.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The majority of phyA-controlled physiological responses, with a few exceptions described by Rosler et al. (CITATION), are mediated by phyA localized in the nucleus. The nuclear import of phyA requires FHY1/FHL and shows a characteristic dependence on the light quality and quantity, indicating that nuclear import of phyA itself can be classified as VLFR and/or FR-HIR (Kim et al.CITATION). To test whether nucleo/cytoplasmic partitioning of the PHYA686 N-terminal fragments is still subject to light regulation, we monitored the cellular distribution of these fusion proteins in seedlings exposed to various light treatments. We found, as expected, that the PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES fusion proteins were constitutively localized in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm, respectively, in both etiolated and light-grown/treated cells (Fig. 6A, B). This figure, however, also illustrates that the cellular distribution of the PHYA686–YFP–DD fusion proteins, similarly to that of PHYA–YFP, is controlled by light. In etiolated seedlings the abundance of these fusion proteins in the nuclei is below the level of detection, whereas short R light pulses and/or cFR light induce rapid nuclear translocation of these chimeric photoreceptors. In addition, we found that, in contrast to PHYA–YFP seedlings (Kircher et al.CITATION), irradiation of cFR light-pre-treated PHYA686–YFP–DD, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES seedlings with R light pulses failed to induce the formation of PHYA-containing nuclear bodies (NBs) in the nucleus (Supplementary Fig. S5) and/or SAPs (sequestered areas of phytochromes) in the cytoplasm (Supplementary Fig. S6). On the other hand, Fig. 6A and B also shows that irradiation of seedlings with 24 h R light lowered the fluorescence of all types of PHYA–YFP fusion proteins below the level of detection, thereby indicating that the stability/degradation of the Pfr conformers of these chimeric PHYA photoreceptors is regulated by light.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To assess degradation of these PHYA fusion proteins in more detail, we performed a series of Western blot hybridization experiments. First, we compared the kinetics of R light-induced degradation of native phyA and the PHYA–YFP fusion protein (Fig. 7). Our results demonstrate that irradiation with 6 h of R light lowered the level of the native phyA below the level of detection, whereas the PHYA–YFP fusion protein was still clearly visible (Fig. 7A). Accordingly, quantification of the Western blot experiments showed that residual levels of the PHYA–YFP fusion protein were about twice as high as that of the native phyA after 1, 3 and 6 h irradiation with R light (Fig. 7B). Next, we determined whether removal of the C-terminal domain and compartmentalization has any effect on R light-induced degradation of the PHYA686–YFP–DD, PHYA686–YFP–DD–NLS and PHYA686–YFP–DD–NES fusion proteins. Fig. 8 illustrates that R light-induced degradation of these truncated fusion proteins did not differ significantly, but was slower compared with that of PHYA–YFP. Taken together these data indicate that (i) degradation of the PHYA Pfr conformer is largely but not exclusively mediated by the N-terminal domain of PHYA and that (ii) degradation of the phyA N-terminal domain containing fusion proteins in the nucleus and cytoplasm follows a nearly identical pattern.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The native PHYA promoter and the full-length PHYA cDNA fragment were cut out from the PHYA:PHYA-GFP pPCV plasmid (Kim et al.CITATION) and inserted into the YFP–NOS terminator carrying pPCV. To create the N-terminal PHYA cDNA fusions, first we generated modified versions of the pPCV812 binary vector that contained either NLS or NES sequences. The DNA fragment containing the SV40 NLS (Kalderon et al.CITATION) was obtained by annealing two oligonucleotides (5′-CAAGCTTCCTAAGAAGAAGAGAAAGGTTGGAGGATAGGAGCT-3′ and 5′-CCTATCCTCCAACCTTTCTCTTCTTCTTAGGAAGCTTGAGCT-3′) encoding the amino acid residues LPKKKRKVGG (stop). NES from PKI (Wen et al.CITATION) was generated by annealing the oligonucleotides 5′-CAAGCTTAACGAGCTTGCTCTTAAGTTGGCTGGACTTGATATTAACAAGACTGGAGGATAGGAGCT-3′ and 5′-CCTATCCTCCAGTCTTGTTAATATCAAGTCCAGCCAACTTAAGAGCAAGCTCGTTAAGCTTGAGCT-3′. The encoded amino acid residues are: LALKLAGLDINKTGG (stop). The YFP-DD-NLS/NES pPCV plasmid vectors were created as described by Pfeiffer et al. (CITATION). To obtain the vector without an NLS/NES signal, we PCR-amplified the DD with a STOP codon at its 3′end and replaced the DD–NLS sequences with this fragment. First the native PHYA promoter was inserted into this set of pPCV plasmids. The cDNA fragment encoding the 686 amino acid N-terminal domain of Arabidopsis PHYA was amplified by PCR and cloned into the PHYA:YFP-DD-NLS/NES or PHYA:YFP-DD vectors. The final constructs were verified by sequencing and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). The chimeric constructs were transformed into the phyA-201 mutant. From each of these transformations primary transgenic plants expressing the fusion proteins were selected by their resistance to hygromycin and grown to maturation in the greenhouse. Multiple independent homozygous lines expressing one copy of the transgene were selected for further analysis. For hypocotyl length and cotyledon area measurements, seeds were sown on four layers of filter paper and imbibed in water for 48 h at 4°C. Cold-treated seeds were next irradiated with white light for 3 h at 22°C to induce seed germination and transferred to darkness for an additional 18 h at 22°C. The plates were subsequently placed under various light conditions for 4 d, as specified in the figure legends, and seedlings were laid on the surface of agar medium. Images of scanned plates were analyzed using MetaMorph Software (Universal Imaging). Hypocotyl lengths at different fluences of light were normalized to the corresponding dark-grown hypocotyl length to reflect solely the light-dependent regulation. A total of 25–30 seedlings were used for each line and each experiment, and experiments were repeated three times. Seedlings for the repeated FR pulse treatment were grown as described for microscopy, whereas the pulse treatments were performed as described in Büche et al. (CITATION) (light sources, SNAP-LITE LED lighting system; maximal spectral outputs, B 470 nm, R 670 nm, FR 735 nm.) To determine gravitropism in FR light, seeds were surface sterilized and sown on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) without sucrose along a line in square Petri dishes, then stratified at 4°C in the dark for 3 d, exposed to white light for 3 h to induce germination and returned to darkness at 22°C for 18 h. The dishes were next placed vertically while illuminated perpendicularly (from one side) by 5 μmol m−2 s−1 FR light. Images of scanned plates were analyzed using MetaMorph Software (Universal Imaging). The experiments were performed at least three times to calculate averages and standard error. Seeds were surface sterilized and plated on half-strength MS with 1% sucrose, stratified at 4°C in the dark for 3 d, exposed to white light for 3 h to induce germination and returned to darkness at 22°C. Light induction was carried out on the fourth day and samples were harvested as described in the figure legends. RNA samples were prepared from whole seedlings using RNeasy miniprep kits (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions, and DNA was removed by DNase I treatment. cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg of total RNA using the RevertAid First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fermentas). RT–PCR was run for 40 cycles. Real-time RT–PCR analysis was carried out with a 7500 Real-Time PCR System with a SYBR Green JumpStart Taq ReadyMix (Sigma). The expression of PRR9 (At2g46790), CAB2 (At1g29920) and YFP was normalized to the expression of Tub2/3 (At5g62690). The primer sequences were: PRR9 RT-Fwd, CCTTCTCAAGATTTGAGGAAAGC; PRR9 RT-Rev, TTTGGCTCACCTGAAGTACTCTC; CAB2 RT-Fwd, ACAATGGCTCTCTCCTCCCC; CAB2 RT-Rev, GGAAAGGTTCACAGCCTTTCC; YFP RT-Fwd, CACAAGCTGGAGTACAACTA; YFP RT-Rev, GATCTTGAAGTTCACCTTGATG; TUB2/3 RT-Fwd, CCAGCTTTGGTGATTTGAAC; and TUB2/3 RT-Rev, CAAGCTTTCGGAGGTCAGAG. The experiments were performed at least three times to calculate averages and standard error. The seeds were sown on four layers of wet filter papers and imbibed for 2 d at 4°C in the dark. Germination was induced by 6 h irradiation with R light. After the germination induction, seedlings were transferred back to darkness and incubated at 25°C either 16 h prior to FR pulse treatment or 4 d prior to light treatments for microscopy. For induction of germination, light treatment for degradation kinetics and localization studies at the microscope in R light, a standard R light field was used (12 μmol m−2 s−1 656 nm, 24 nm full width at half-maximum). For microscopic localization studies after FR light treatment, a standard FR light field (13 μmol m−2 s−1, 730 nm, 128 nm full width at half-maximum) was used. Prior to microscopy, for white light pulses the microscope lamp was used, for R light pulses red light filter KG65 (Schott, Germany) was placed onto the microscope lamp, and for FR pulse treatments, DAL filters with a transmission maximum of 715 nm were used (Schott). Microscopic analysis was performed by using an Axioskop microscope (Zeiss) with an Axiocam camera system (Zeiss) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-, YFP- and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-specific filter sets (AHF Analysentechnik). For the immunoblot analysis, 4-day-old dark-grown seedlings were exposed to R light and harvested at different time points. Denaturing protein extraction was performed by homogenization in a potter with boiling SDS sample buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 6.8), 7% SDS, 4 M urea, 10% glycerol, 10 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.05% bromphenol blue]. The protein samples were separated by SDS–PAGE and blotted onto a PVDF membrane. For detection of the PHYA or the fusion proteins, a phyA- or GFP-specific antiserum was used at a dilution of 1 : 1,000; detection of actin was performed by using a monoclonal anti-actin antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) at a dilution of 1 : 20,000. Secondary antibodies coupled to alkaline phosphatase (Biorad) were used at a dilution of 1 : 10,000. For comparison of the expression levels of transgenic lines expressing the various PHYA–YFP fusion proteins, 30 μg of total protein was loaded. For comparison of the degradation of the various fusion proteins, the loading was normalized so as to have an equal expression level in extracts prepared from dark-grown seedlings. Signal intensities were compared using the software ImageJ. The experiments were performed at least three times to calculate averages and standard error.
