!~ABS~! Reactive carbonyls, especially α,β-unsaturated carbonyls produced through lipid peroxidation, damage biomolecules such as proteins and nucleotides; elimination of these carbonyls is therefore essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis. In this study, we focused on an NADPH-dependent detoxification of reactive carbonyls in plants and explored the enzyme system involved in this detoxification process. Using acrolein (CH2 = CHCHO) as a model α,β-unsaturated carbonyl, we purified a predominant NADPH-dependent acrolein-reducing enzyme from cucumber leaves, and we identified the enzyme as an alkenal/one oxidoreductase (AOR) catalyzing reduction of an α,β-unsaturated bond. Cloning of cDNA encoding AORs revealed that cucumber contains two distinct AORs, chloroplastic AOR and cytosolic AOR. Homologs of cucumber AORs were found among various plant species, including Arabidopsis, and we confirmed that a homolog of Arabidopsis (At1g23740) also had AOR activity. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these AORs belong to a novel class of AORs. They preferentially reduced α,β-unsaturated ketones rather than α,β-unsaturated aldehydes. Furthermore, we selected candidates of other classes of enzymes involved in NADPH-dependent reduction of carbonyls based on the bioinformatic information, and we found that an aldo-keto reductase (At2g37770) and aldehyde reductases (At1g54870 and At3g04000) were implicated in the reduction of an aldehyde group of saturated aldehydes and methylglyoxal as well as α,β-unsaturated aldehydes in chloroplasts. These results suggest that different classes of NADPH-dependent reductases cooperatively contribute to the detoxification of reactive carbonyls. 
!~RES~! Using concentrated crude extracts prepared from cucumber and Arabidopsis leaves, we measured reducing and oxidizing activity against representative α,β-unsaturated and -saturated carbonyls found in plants using NADPH, NADH, NADP, or NAD, because known enzymes catalyzing reduction of the carbonyls need at least one of these biological reductants/oxidants. As a result, carbonyl-reducing activity using NADPH as a reductant was predominant in crude extracts of both cucumber and Arabidopsis (Fig. 1); the level of NADPH-dependent reduction was more than 10 times greater than that of NADH-dependent reduction (data not shown). Both α,β-unsaturated and saturated aldehydes were not oxidized in the presence of NAD or NADP (data not shown), suggesting that aldehyde dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the oxidation of aldehyde groups to carboxylic groups, is apparently not involved in the major detoxification pathway of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes. Neither reducing nor oxidizing activities against 2-butanone were detected. Results obtained by spectrophotometric analysis (Fig. 1) and decreases in peak areas of all substrates after enzymatic reaction observed by HPLC analysis (data not shown) indicated the presence of aldehyde group-reducing enzyme(s) in crude extracts. In addition, the presence of α,β-unsaturated bond-saturating activity was also indicated because a part of the acrolein, crotonaldehyde, methylvinyl ketone, ethylvinyl ketone, and 3-penten-2-one was reduced to their corresponding saturated carbonyl forms (a representative result is shown in the inset chromatograph in Fig. 1). These results indicate that the detoxification of reactive aldehydes is mediated by reduction of both the aldehyde group and α,β-unsaturated bonds with NADPH as a reductant.  [[FIGURE]] To identify the acrolein-scavenging enzyme of plants, we used cucumber leaves as a biological source because they exhibit high levels of acrolein-reducing activity. This activity was completely eliminated by boiling, suggesting that a proteinaceous acrolein-reducing enzyme might be involved in the reduction of acrolein.  Purification of the acrolein-reducing enzyme is summarized in Table 1. The acrolein-reducing enzyme was purified through successive chromatographies using anion exchange chromatography (DE52), hydroxyapatite, phenyl-Sepharose, and gel filtration (Superose 12). Estimation of native molecular mass by Superose 12 column gel chromatography suggested that the molecular mass of the acrolein-reducing enzyme was about 42 kDa (Fig. 2A). SDS-PAGE of the purified enzyme showed a single band at 42 kDa (Fig. 2B). These data suggested that the acrolein-reducing enzyme was a monomeric protein of 42 kDa.  [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]] Acrolein has two potential sites to be reduced as follows: an α,β-unsaturated bond and an aldehyde group. Fig. 3A shows two theoretical reduction pathways of acrolein catalyzed by enzymes using NADPH as a reductant. One is an AOR-catalyzed pathway (CITATION), and the other is an AKR (CITATION) or alcohol dehydrogenase-catalyzed pathway. The former yields propionaldehyde as its product, whereas the latter yields allyl alcohol. To distinguish which site was reduced, the reduced product from acrolein was determined through HPLC after carbonyl-reactive DNPH derivatization. After incubation, the peak of acrolein-DNPH decreased accompanying the stoichiometric appearance of the other peak coinciding with propionaldehyde-DNPH at 20.3 min as incubation time increased (Fig. 3B). Furthermore, we confirmed through LC/MS in the negative ionization mode that the m/z of the product was 237, which corresponds to that of propionaldehyde-DNPH (data not shown). From these results, we concluded that the purified acrolein-reducing enzyme hydrogenated the α,β-unsaturated bond of acrolein and resulted in propionaldehyde as the product.  [[FIGURE]] Using various related compounds, the substrate specificity of the purified enzyme was investigated. We found that the enzyme preferentially reduced 2-alkenones such as 3-buten-2-one, 1-penten-3-one, 3-penten-2-one, and 4-hexen-3-one (Fig. 4). Carbonyls without an α,β-unsaturated bond, such as propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and 2-butanone, did not serve as substrates. The purified enzyme reduced acrolein and crotonaldehyde but not 3-methyl-2-butenal and 2-methyl-2-butenal, suggesting that the presence of at least one hydrogen bound to both the α- and β-carbons is essential in a substrate. In addition, the enzyme did not reduce 2-cyclohexen-1-one, indicating that cyclic enone is not a substrate for the purified enzyme. Long carbon chain (C ≧ 5) α,β-unsaturated aldehydes such as (E)-2-pentenal and (E)-2-hexenal were not substrates for this enzyme.  [[FIGURE]] The kinetic parameters of the purified enzyme for α,β-unsaturated aldehydes and ketones are shown in Table 2. Its Km value against acrolein was 13.6 mm, whereas that against crotonaldehyde was 29.8 mm. Its Km value against α,β-unsaturated ketones was much lower than those against α,β-unsaturated aldehydes; as a result, the purified enzyme showed high specificity (kcat/Km) to α,β-unsaturated ketones. This substrate preference is a common characteristic among enzymes with α,β-unsaturated bond hydrogenation activity (CITATION, CITATION). The acrolein-reducing enzyme operated 30 times faster in the presence of NADPH than in the presence of NADH (Table 2). Consequently, the purified enzyme was identified as an NADPH-dependent AOR using short chain α,β-unsaturated carbonyls as its substrates. Hereafter, we use the term C. sativus AOR (CsAOR) to denote the purified acrolein-reducing enzyme.  [[TABLE]] The internal amino acid sequence of the purified enzyme was determined through de novo sequencing using LC/MS/MS after trypsin digestion. We designed degenerate primers from two obtained peptide sequences (Fig. 5) and determined full-length cDNAs encoding AOR protein using the RACE method. Cloning of the cucumber AOR resulted in the determination of two distinct sequences encoding AOR (Fig. 5). The isolated CsAOR cDNAs were 1219 bp encoding a polypeptide composed of 383 amino acids and 1066 bp encoding a polypeptide composed of 320 amino acids. To confirm that these polypeptides encoded functional AORs, we expressed recombinant GST-fused proteins in E. coli and found that both recombinant proteins had AOR activity (data not shown). A homology search suggested that homologous genes were found in various plant species (Fig. 5) and that they could be divided into two groups, one with variable N-terminal sequences and the other without. ChloroP analysis showed that these N-terminal sequences contained a chloroplast-targeting signal motif, indicating that chloroplastic and/or cytosolic AORs would be distributed widely in plant species. In these amino acid sequences, a glycine-rich sequence (GAGGVG), which contains the (GAGGXX) motif of the NADPH-binding Rossmann-like domain found in shikimate dehydrogenase (CITATION), is strictly conserved.  [[FIGURE]] Because the CsAOR polypeptide composed of 383 amino acids contained a putative transit peptide for plastidial sorting at the N terminus as predicted by ChloroP, we constructed the GFP fusion proteins and transiently expressed them in spiderwort to determine the intracellular localization of these two CsAOR polypeptides. In the case of the CsAOR polypeptide with 383 amino acids, strong green fluorescence was distributed in the plastids; in the case of the CsAOR polypeptide with 320 amino acids, fluorescence was observed at the periphery and at the center of the cell. Autofluorescence of chlorophyll and GFP fluorescence was completely overlaid (Fig. 6, A–C), suggesting that the CsAOR with 383 amino acids was the chloroplastic protein. On the other hand, the GFP fluorescence of the CsAOR with 320 amino acids was distributed in the cytoplasm around vacuoles, along plasma membranes, and in the nucleoplasm of the nuclei (Fig. 6, D–F). Because GFP inherently tends to localize in nuclei (CITATION), however, the localization of CsAOR in the nuclei cannot necessarily support a conclusion. Thus, we concluded that the CsAOR with 383 amino acids and that with 320 amino acids were the chloroplastic CsAOR (CsChlAOR) and the cytosolic CsAOR (CsCytAOR), respectively. The purified native CsAOR enzyme was thought to be a CsChlAOR because its native molecular mass (42 kDa) coincided with the theoretical molecular mass of CsChlAOR (40,527 Da) but not with that of CsCytAOR (34,423 Da).  [[FIGURE]] Homology search of CsAOR revealed that a homologous gene was included in Arabidopsis genomic DNA. To confirm that this gene also encoded AOR, we cloned the cDNA of Arabidopsis AOR (AtAOR, At1g23740) and expressed the recombinant protein in E. coli. In constructing the expression plasmid, we removed about 80 residues of the N-terminal sequence because these regions are highly divergent among known sequences (Fig. 5), probably because of the plastid-targeted transit peptide. We observed that the GST-fused AtAOR protein was successively expressed in the soluble and functional fractions (supplemental Fig. S1A). The kinetic parameters of AtAOR were fairly similar to those of CsAORs (Table 3). At1g23740 protein has a predicted transit peptide in the N-terminal region and has been identified as a stromal protein in chloroplasts by two independent proteomic analyses (CITATION, CITATION). Accordingly, we concluded that AtAOR was the chloroplast-localizing AOR.  [[TABLE]] The localization of AOR in chloroplasts suggests the importance of detoxification of α,β-unsaturated carbonyls for maintaining the photosynthetic process. However, as shown in Fig. 4, AOR could not reduce longer α,β-unsaturated aldehydes, suggesting that other enzyme(s) might be involved in the detoxification. The detoxification of α,β-unsaturated carbonyls can be achieved through the reduction or oxidation of their carbonyl groups. In crude extracts of cucumber and Arabidopsis, NADPH-dependent reducing activity predominantly occurred against both α,β-unsaturated and saturated aldehydes (Fig. 1), suggesting that SDR and/or AKR are involved in the reduction of these aldehyde groups. Therefore, to establish the detoxification pathway of α,β-unsaturated carbonyls in chloroplasts, we selected candidates involved in the detoxification of α,β-unsaturated carbonyls, i.e. the reduction of aldehyde group of both long α,β-unsaturated aldehydes and saturated aldehydes.  Selected candidate genes for SDR and AKR satisfied at least one of the following criteria: 1) co-expression with α,β-unsaturated bond-reducing enzymes, AtAOR (At1g23740) or Arabidopsis alkenal reductase (AtAER, At5g16970) as shown in the publicly available Arabidopsis co-expression data base (ATTED-II); 2) predicted chloroplastic protein status according to PSORT or ChloroP programs. Known genes having other enzymatic activity were excluded. The selected candidate genes were cloned into an expression vector, and encoded proteins were expressed in E. coli as GST fusion proteins (a list is shown in supplemental Table S1). Enzymes recovered in soluble form were purified through affinity chromatography using a GSH-Sepharose column (supplemental Fig. S1B), and the activity of recombinant proteins was measured. We successfully detected both α,β-unsaturated and -saturated aldehyde-reducing activity associated with two SDR family proteins (At1g54870 and At3g04000) and one AKR protein (At2g37770).  A summary of the substrate specificities and kinetic parameters of the proteins At1g54870 and At3g04000 are shown in Fig. 7 and Table 4, respectively. They reduced saturated aldehydes such as propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde in the presence of NADPH, but not NADH, as a reductant. This result does not contradict the results obtained using crude extracts, which suggested NADPH dependence (Fig. 1). These proteins also did not reduce 2-butanone and did not oxidize propanol, butanol, or ethanol in the presence of NADP or NAD (data not shown). They did reduce the aldehyde groups of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes such as (E)-2-pentenal, (E)-2-hexenal, and (E)-2-nonenal but not acrolein and crotonaldehyde. Aldehyde group reduction of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes was confirmed by the fact that saturated aldehydes were not detected as products after enzymatic reactions using α,β-unsaturated aldehydes as the substrates by HPLC analysis (data not shown). In addition, these proteins reduced methylglyoxal (MG), a representative α-dicarbonyl compound produced during glycolysis, and (Z)-3-hexenal, a major volatile involved in green leaf odor. The localizations of At1g54870 and At3g04000 were determined through a transient expression assay using GFP fused with the N-terminal regions of the polypeptides. Distribution of GFP fluorescence in both At1g54870 and At3g04000 completely corresponded to the autofluorescence of chloroplasts (supplemental Fig. S2, A–D), suggesting that the N-terminal regions of both proteins have chloroplast-targeting transit peptides. Based on these properties, we concluded that these proteins were NADPH-dependent chloroplastic aldehyde reductases (AtChlADRs) reducing saturated aldehyde and α,β-unsaturated aldehydes having more than 5 carbons (C ≧ 5) as substrates.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] AKR encoded by At2g37770 showed reducing activity of both saturated and unsaturated aldehydes (Fig. 7). As in the case of AtChlADRs, the activity of this AKR is completely dependent on NADPH. Analysis of subcellular localization indicated that this AKR is localized in chloroplasts (supplemental Fig. S2, E and F); accordingly, it was named AtChlAKR. The substrate specificity of AtChlAKR overlapped with those of the AtChlADRs, and AtChlAKR reduced acrolein and crotonaldehyde (Fig. 7). Ketones were not substrates for AtChlAKR. The kinetic parameters of AtChlAKR suggest that it reduces aldehydes with a higher efficiency than the AtChlADRs; AtChlADRs had higher Km and lower kcat values than AtChlAKR, except for butyraldehyde and (E)-2-pentenal (Table 4).  Two SDR family proteins (At2g24190 and At3g61220) are homologs of mammalian CBR. These are predicted to be chloroplastic proteins with low reliability. The distribution of GFP-fused chimeric proteins suggested that the subcellular localization of these proteins was cytosolic (supplemental Fig. S2, G and H). Recombinant protein studies showed that they exhibited NADPH-dependent reducing activity against saturated and unsaturated aldehydes, in a pattern of enzymatic properties similar to that of the AtChlADRs (Table 4). Based on these results, we concluded that these SDRs were NADPH-dependent cytosolic ADRs (AtCytADRs). CBRs found in bacteria, insects, and animals reduce carbonyl groups of various secondary carbonyls, and thus they are thought to be involved in the detoxification and inactivation of reactive carbonyls (CITATION). Also in Arabidopsis, AtCytADRs probably act as detoxifying enzymes of reactive carbonyls in cytosol. 
!~MM~! Acrolein, crotonaldehyde, 3-buten-2-one, (E)-2-pentenal, allyl alcohol, and 2-methyl-2-butenal were purchased from Tokyo Kasei Kogyo (Tokyo, Japan). 1-Penten-3-one, 3-penten-2-one, 3-methyl-2-butenal, 2-cyclohexen-1-one, and methylglyoxal were purchased from Sigma. Other reagents purchased from Wako Pure Chemical (Osaka, Japan) or Nacalai Tesque (Kyoto, Japan) were of analytical grade.  Field-grown cucumber (Cucumis sativus) or Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana, Columbia) leaves grown in a growth chamber (12 h of light (80 μmol photon m−2 s−1) at 25 °C) were homogenized with 5 volumes of 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0. After centrifugation, proteins in the supernatant were precipitated by 80% ammonium sulfate saturation. The proteins were then dissolved and dialyzed against 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, and the dialysate was used as a concentrated crude extract. To measure carbonyl-reducing enzyme activity, a reaction mixture containing 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, 0.1 mm NADPH, and 20 mm substrate was prepared in a cuvette, and the reaction was started by adding enzyme solution to a total volume of 1 ml. Oxidation of NADPH was observed in the form of a decrease at 340 nm (6.22 mm−1 cm−1) in the initial linear phase as seen on a spectrophotometer (U-2900, Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). Enzymatic activity in the presence of other reductant or oxidants (0.1 mm NADH, 1 mm NADP, or 1 mm NAD) was measured by monitoring changes at A340 nm in a reaction mixture containing 20 mm substrate and 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0. Some hydrophobic substrates were dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide because the final concentration (up to 5% (v/v)) of the solvent did not inhibit the activity. Km and kcat values were determined by fitting the experimental data to the Michaelis-Menten equation.  Products resulting from the carbonyl-reducing enzyme-catalyzed reaction were determined by 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization and subsequent HPLC analysis. A reaction mixture (total 100 μl) containing 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, 20 mm NADPH, 20 mm substrate, and enzyme was incubated at 25 °C. After the reaction was stopped by the addition of 10 μl of DNPH solution (2.5 mg/ml in 6 m HCl), 200 μl of n-hexane was added, and tubes were vortexed well. The hexane layer was recovered and evaporated, and the residue was then dissolved in 200 μl of 60% acetonitrile. A filtrated sample was subjected to HPLC using an ODS-UG3 column (4.6 × 150 mm, Nomura Chemical Co. Ltd., Aichi, Japan) and 60% acetonitrile as a mobile phase. DNPH derivatives were detected at 370 nm.  Cucumber leaves (100 g) were frozen with liquid nitrogen, and then proteins were extracted with 5 volumes of 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, containing 1 mm dithiothreitol (DTT) and 0.1 mm EDTA. After centrifugation at 10,000 × g for 20 min, the supernatant was fractionated by the addition of solid ammonium sulfate. Proteins precipitating between 35 and 55% ammonium sulfate saturation were dissolved in a minimum volume of 50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, containing 1 mm DTT (buffer A) and then dialyzed against buffer A. The dialysate was applied to a DE52 column (3.5 × 27 cm, Whatman) equilibrated with buffer A. After washing with buffer A (500 ml), activity was eluted with buffer A containing 110 mm NaCl (1000 ml). Active fractions were combined and dialyzed against 10 mm sodium phosphate buffer (Na-PB, pH 6.8) containing 1 mm DTT. The dialysate was applied to a hydroxyapatite column (1.5 × 8 cm, Wako Pure Chemical) and eluted by a linear gradient of 0 to 0.2 m Na-PB (pH 6.8, total 200 ml). After an equal volume of 60% ammonium sulfate saturated in 50 mm K-PB, pH 7.0, containing 1 mm 2-mercaptoethanol was added to the active fraction, the solution was applied to a phenyl-Sepharose column (1.5 × 8 cm, GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 30% ammonium sulfate saturated in 50 mm K-PB, pH 7.0, containing 1 mm 2-mercaptoethanol and then eluted with a linear gradient of 30 to 0% ammonium sulfate (total 100 ml). Active fractions were concentrated with Microcon-30 (Millipore, Billerica, MA), then applied to a Superose 12 PC 3.2/30 column (0.32 × 30 cm, SMART system, GE Healthcare) equilibrated with buffer A, and eluted at a flow rate of 40 μl/min. All purification steps were done between 0 and 4 °C. Protein concentration was determined according to the method of Lowry et al. (CITATION) with bovine serum albumin as the standard.  SDS-PAGE was performed according to the method of Laemmli (CITATION) using 12% polyacrylamide gel under reducing conditions. Proteins were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250.  Partially purified enzyme was separated by 12% SDS-PAGE, and bands were excised with a razor blade. Enzyme protein was fragmented with trypsin (sequence grade, Roche Applied Science), and amino acid sequences were determined through de novo sequencing after LC/MS/MS analysis.  Total RNA was prepared using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), and cDNA was synthesized using a first strand synthesis kit (Roche Applied Science). The cDNA fragments of acrolein reductase genes were amplified by PCR using degenerated primers designed based on internal amino acid sequences shown in supplemental Table S1. Amplified cDNAs were cloned into pCRII vector (Invitrogen), and their sequences were determined using a Big Dye sequencing kit (Applied Biosystems). The full-length cDNA clone for cucumber acrolein reductase was obtained through RACE-PCR using 5′-RACE and 3′-RACE kits (Invitrogen).  Protein sequences were aligned using ClustalW, and the neighbor-joining method was used to construct a phylogenetic tree and to infer evolutionary history (CITATION). Evolutionary distances were computed using the Poisson correction method (CITATION). There were a total of 198 positions in the final dataset. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted in MEGA4 (CITATION).  Primer sequences used for the amplification of DNA fragments for expression of recombinant proteins are shown in supplemental Table S1. After PCR amplification using proofreading TaqDNA polymerase, the resulting PCR product was digested with restriction enzymes and ligated into the corresponding restriction sites of pGEX-4T-1 (GE Healthcare). The constructed expression plasmid was transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 cells. Transformed cells were grown at 37 °C in LB broth containing 100 μg ml−1 ampicillin until the A600 nm reached 0.8–1.2. After induction with 0.5 mm isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside, the cultures were grown for 18–24 h at 15–18 °C. Cells were precipitated through centrifugation (10,000 × g for 10 min) and then resuspended in PBS containing 0.1% Triton X-100. After sonication and centrifugation, the recombinant protein in the resultant supernatant was purified by affinity chromatography using GSH-Sepharose (GE Healthcare). If necessary, recombinant proteins were further purified using hydroxyapatite and subsequent Mono Q column chromatographies. Purified protein was stored at −20 °C in the presence of 40% (v/v) glycerol.  The protein-coding region of tested gene was amplified by PCR using primers listed in supplemental Table S1 and ligated to pTH2, for transient expression plasmid generously provided by Dr. Niwa (University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan), to produce tested protein-GFP fusion proteins. The GFP was sGFP(S65T), a modified GFP (CITATION), and the chimeric construct was cloned into competent cells. After structural confirmation of the construct, they were introduced into the dorsal side of epidermal cell layers peeled off from excised spiderwort leaves (Tradescantia reflexa) by particle bombardment using a PDS-1000/He device (Bio-Rad), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The autofluorescence (red) of chloroplasts and the GFP images were observed under fluorescence light microscopy (BX51, Olympus, Tokyo, Japan).  The full sequences of the C. sativus chloroplastic and cytosolic AORs have been deposited at the DDBJ data bank with accession numbers AB597302 and AB597303, respectively. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: AtAOR, At1g23740; AtChlADR, At1g54870 and At3g04000; AtCytADR, At2g24190, and At3g61220; AtChlAKR, At2g37770; AtAER, At5g16970. 
