!~ABS~! The identification of the yeast phosphatidate phosphohydrolase (PAH1) gene encoding an enzyme with phosphatidate phosphatase (PAP; 3‐sn‐phosphatidate phosphohydrolase, EC 3.1.3.4) activity led to the discovery of mammalian Lipins and subsequently to homologous genes from plants. In the present study, we describe the functional characterization of Arabidopsis and Brassica napus homologs of PAH1. Recombinant expression studies confirmed that homologous PAHs from plants can rescue different phenotypes exhibited by the yeast pah1Δ strain, such as temperature growth sensitivity and atypical neutral lipid composition. Using this expression system, we examined the role of the putative catalytic motif DXDXT and other conserved residues by mutational analysis. Mutants within the carboxy‐terminal lipin domain displayed significantly decreased PAP activity, which was reflected by their limited ability to complement different phenotypes of pah1Δ. Subcellular localization studies using a green fluorescent protein fusion protein showed that Arabidopsis PAH1 is mostly present in the cytoplasm of yeast cells. However, upon oleic acid stimulation, green fluorescent protein fluorescence was predominantly found in the nucleus, suggesting that plant PAH1 might be involved in the transcriptional regulation of gene expression. In addition, we demonstrate that mutation of conserved residues that are essential for the PAP activity of the Arabidopsis PAH1 enzyme did not impair its nuclear localization in response to oleic acid. In conclusion, the present study provides evidence that Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs restore lipid synthesis in yeast and that DXDXT is a functional enzymic motif within plant PAHs.  Database The nucleotide sequence data have been deposited in the GenBank database under accession numbers HQ113853 and HQ113854
!~RES~! Based on previous studies demonstrating the involvement of yeast PAH1 and mammalian lipins in storage lipid accumulation [CITATION], we were initially interested in identifying Arabidopsis genes encoding PAP enzymes that may play a role in de novo DAG synthesis. Two PAH1 homologs were found in Arabidopsis, which are designated in the present study as AtPAH1 (At3g09560) and AtPAH2 (At5g42870), and encode proteins with predicted molecular masses of 100.9 and 101.2 kDa, respectively. In addition, we identified two isoforms of B. napus PAH1 using the expressed sequence tag information available on the Internet (http://brassica.bbsrc.ac.uk). They are designated in the present study as BnPAH1A (GenBank # HQ113853) and BnPAH1B (GenBank # HQ113854), and encode proteins sharing 99% sequence identity and calculated molecular masses of ∼ 90.6 kDa. Both Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs have the conserved N‐LIP and C‐LIP domains found in yeast PAH1 and mammalian Lipin‐1. AtPAH1 and AtPAH2 share 63% and 58% identity in the conserved N‐LIP and C‐LIP domain, respectively. B. napus PAHs display higher sequence identity to AtPAH1 at the level of 95% for each N‐LIP and C‐LIP domain. The C‐LIP domain harbors the HAD‐like catalytic motif (DXDXT) found in the superfamily of Mg2+‐dependent phosphatases [CITATION, CITATION]. The HAD‐like motif DVDGT is located at positions 707–711, 734–738 and 616–620 of AtPAH1, AtPAH2 and BnPAH1, respectively (Fig. 1). By contrast to plant PAHs, members of the family of LPPs that do not require Mg2+ ions for activity in Arabidopsis and yeast contain a catalytic motif comprising the consensus sequences KXXXXXXRP, PSGH and SRXXXXXHXXXD [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION]. Analyses made with several prediction algorithms were unable to detect the presence of potential transmembrane domains in Arabidopsis or B. napus PAHs. This is in agreement with earlier studies on mammalian and yeast homologs [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION]. Unlike Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs, six putative transmembrane domains were predicted in Arabidopsis LPP2 and LPP3 and in yeast diacylglycerol pyrophosphate phosphatase 1 and LPP1 that belong to the family of Mg2+‐independent PAP2 enzymes [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] To establish the functional relationship between yeast PAH1 and the corresponding plant homologs, the coding region of Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs were linked to the galactose‐inducible GAL1 promoter in the yeast expression vector pYES2/NT, which also provides an N‐terminal His‐tag. The resulting constructs were transformed into the S. cerevisiae pah1Δ strain, which displays different phenotypes, such as a reduced level of PAP activity, severe growth deficiency at 37 °C, elevated levels of PA and decreased levels of DAG and TAG [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION]. Transformed yeast cells were cultivated for 16 h after induction with galactose. Immunoblot analysis of yeast homogenates showed that the His‐tagged Arabidopsis PAH1 and B. napus PAHs migrated as ∼ 130 and 118 kDa proteins, respectively, upon SDS/PAGE (Fig. 2A, B), and these values are higher than the molecular weights of the predicted polypeptides. A similar shift in mobility was observed in yeast PAH1 and was attributed to post‐translational modification of the protein by phosphorylation [CITATION, CITATION]. AtPAH2 migrated at a lower molecular weight compared to AtPAH1 and, in this case, a second band is clearly noticeable on SDS/PAGE (Fig. 2A, lane 2). The same pattern has been also observed previously for mammalian Lipin‐2 [CITATION]. Fractionation of yeast homogenate indicated that AtPAH1 was detected in both membrane and soluble fractions of the yeast cell (Fig. 2C). Therefore, to evaluate Mg2+‐dependent PAP activity, we used crude cell homogenates. The pah1Δ strain expressing Arabidopsis or B. napus PAHs displayed a significant increase in PAP activity compared to the negative control transformed with LacZ (Fig. 3A). The highest difference in PAP activity was observed for BnPAH1A, with an increase of 21.4‐fold compared to the negative control. In the pah1Δ mutant, the PAP activity was reduced by 39% compared to the wild‐type (WT) (Inv Sc1 strain) control used in the present study. This was similar to the difference between pah1Δ and WT parent strain observed by Han et al. [CITATION]. The remaining Mg2+‐dependent PAP activity in pah1Δ has been attributed to other enzymes with unknown molecular identities [CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the influence of Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs in the metabolism of neutral lipids, we analyzed the TAG and PL content of yeast cells expressing recombinant PAHs (Fig. 3B). After 48 h of induction, the TAG/PL ratio in pah1Δ cells bearing recombinant PAHs was considerably higher compared to the negative control. The most pronounced effect was observed for BnPAH1A, with an increase of 40‐fold compared to the TAG/PL ratio observed in the negative control (LacZ).  In addition to the effect on lipid composition, yeast pah1Δ cells also display reduced growth when cultivated at 37 °C. To determine whether Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs could rescue this phenotype, we cultivated several dilutions of cells expressing plant PAHs at 37 °C. When cells were inoculated in medium supplemented with galactose (induced), lines expressing PAHs from Arabidopsis and B. napus displayed growth on dilutions as low as D600 = 1.0 × 104 (Fig. 3C), whereas cells expressing LacZ grew only at D600 = 1.0. In medium without galactose (not induced), only WT cells presented appreciable growth, indicating that complementation of temperature‐sensitive phenotype resulted from Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs expression.  Taken together, these results show that the previously characterized AtPAH1 and AtPAH2 and the two PAH1 homologs from B. napus encode enzymes with PAP activity. Previous work on mammalian lipins indicated that the pah1Δ yeast expression system could be used as a predictive model for confirming the functions of PAH1‐homolog genes [CITATION]. Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs complemented the temperature sensitive phenotype from the yeast pah1Δ strain, which was also observed by Nakamura et al. [CITATION] for AtPAH1 and AtPAH2. Using an Escherichia coli expression system, Eastmond et al. [CITATION] reported a comparatively higher enzyme activity of AtPAH1 over AtPAH2, which is corroborated by the results obtained in the present study (Fig. 3A). The higher enzyme activity of AtPAH1 compared to AtPAH2 is also evident in the preferential growth at 37 °C of yeast expressing AtPAH1; this was also reported by Nakamura et al. [CITATION]. Taken together, these results collectively suggest that AtPAH1 can complement phenotypes of the pah1Δ strain more efficiently than AtPAH2. The newly‐characterized BnPAH1A and BnPAH1B display relatively stronger complementation over Arabidopsis PAHs in most aspects. Moreover, the restoration of TAG synthesis in the yeast pah1Δ strain expressing plant PAH homologs suggests an evolutionary conservation of the PAP enzyme reaction between yeast and plants.  To determine the role of the conserved residues within C‐LIP and N‐LIP domain of plant PAH1, we examined the mutational effect of selected residues on PAP activity using AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A as models. Using site‐directed mutagenesis (Fig. 1), we constructed mutant AtPAH1 alleles (G83A, D707A, D709A and S752A) and mutant BnPAH1A alleles (G83A, D616A and D618A) and expressed them in the pah1Δ strain. Yeast cells were harvested after 16 h of induction in medium containing galactose. Cell homogenates were prepared, verified via immunoblotting and assayed for PAP activity. Immunoblot analysis using anti‐HisG serum showed that native and mutant AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A enzymes were expressed at comparable levels (Fig. 4). Although the expression of AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A resulted in PAP activity that was significantly higher compared to LacZ control, the corresponding mutant alleles did not restore PAP activity to comparable levels (Fig. 4). In particular, mutations in the predicted catalytic motif of AtPAH1 (D707A and D709A) and BnPAH1A (D616A and D618A) abolished PAP activity, with levels comparable to the negative control. These results are in agreement with mutational analysis of the yeast PAH1 catalytic motif [CITATION] and demonstrate that the conserved aspartate residues in the plant homologs are required for their catalytic function. In addition, substitution of the conserved serine 752 with alanine within C‐LIP domain of AtPAH1 had a similar negative effect on enzyme activity. The importance of the equivalent conserved serine residue for the enzyme activity in human Lipin‐2 and mouse Lipin‐1 and Lipin‐2 has been described previously [CITATION]. For example, a rare human mutation S734L in LIPIN‐2 gene causes Majeed syndrome, a human inflammatory disorder. Recently, Majeed syndrome has been linked to the loss of Lipin‐2‐mediated PAP activity [CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] Mutation of the conserved glycine (G83) to alanine in the N‐LIP domain of both AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A produced less severe effects on the enzyme activity and resulted in the loss of up to 75% and 54% of the PAP activity of native enzyme, respectively (Fig. 4). Interestingly, other mutations in the corresponding position of PAH1 from other organisms appear to have a more pronounced effect. For example, the G80R yeast PAH1 allele showed essentially no enzyme activity [CITATION]. The same substitution within N‐LIP domain was found to be crucial for the fat‐regulating function of Lipin‐1 in mice [CITATION]. Mild modifications (such as G to A) that do not result in dramatic changes in polarity or steric properties may not be sufficient to completely hinder enzyme activity.  To determine whether the previous results with respect to enzyme activity were related to other effects on lipid metabolism, we examined the yeast lipid composition in stationary phase of pah1Δ cells expressing mutant alleles of AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A (Fig. 5). As demonstrated previously, the TAG/PL ratio in the pah1Δ strain was increased by the expression of AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A genes. However, the expression of their respective mutant alleles within C‐LIP domain did not affect TAG/PL ratio compared to the negative control. Similarly, the expression of mutant AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A C‐LIP mutant alleles did not complement the temperature sensitivity of pah1Δ cells at 37 °C (Fig. 6). The effect of the G83A mutation in BnPAH1A appears to be comparatively mild and might be attributed to unique attributes of BnPAH1A together with a more conservative change as outlined above (Figs 4B, 5B and 6B). In conclusion, amino acid substitutions in the conserved C‐LIP domain, including the HAD‐like motif of AtPAH1 and BnPAH1A, resulted in the loss of PAP activity. Mutation of G83 in the N‐LIP domain also produced a significant reduction in enzyme activity and was less severe for BnPAH1A. The results obtained from temperature growth sensitivity analysis correlated with changes in lipid composition in the pah1Δ strain and indicate a close relationship between enzyme activity and the different phenotypes. The findings of the present study are in agreement with earlier mutational analysis studies carried out with yeast PAH1 [CITATION]. Furthermore, in the study performed by Han et al. [19], the lack of complementation by the D398E and D400E mutant PAH1 alleles was linked to the specific loss of PAH1‐encoded PAP activity.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We have previously determined that plant PAH1 homologs are present in both soluble and membrane fractions of yeast cells (Fig. 2C). To obtain a more comprehensive understanding of the subcellular localization of these enzymes, we prepared a construct encoding an N‐terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)‐fusion with AtPAH1, and expressed this construct in pah1Δ under the control of the GAL1 promoter. As shown in Fig. 7A, the GFP‐AtPAH1 fusion was present throughout the cytoplasm as a soluble protein, in agreement with the immunoblot on Fig. 2C, and apparently absent in the nucleus. Previous localization studies using yeast PAH1‐GFP fusions also indicated that PAH1 was present throughout the cytoplasm [CITATION, CITATION]. Confocal microscopy of GFP‐AtPAH1 fusion expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana agrobacterium‐infiltrated leaves indicated that the fusion protein was located predominantly in the cytosol [CITATION]. In the case of mammalian PAH1 homologs, both mouse Lipin‐1 isoforms can localize to either the cytosol or nucleus. The majority of Lipin‐1B is present in the cytosol and the remaining Lipin‐1A is prevalent in the nucleus of mature adipocytes [CITATION]. PAP activity is primarily cytosolic but, after fatty acid stimulation, it can be largely detected in the endoplasmic reticulum, as described previously in rat hepatocytes [CITATION, CITATION], as well as in the developing seeds of safflower, following stimulation with oleic acid [CITATION]. The yeast expression system used in the present study offers the versatility of controlling environmental conditions and stimuli. Therefore, we aimed to determine whether oleic acid supplementation could affect the subcellular localization of GFP‐AtPAH1. When cells were cultivated in the presence of 125 μm oleic acid, fluorescence was found almost exclusively in the nucleus (Fig. 7B). This suggests that AtPAH1 might be involved in transcriptional gene regulation, although additional studies are required to address this hypothesis. We have shown that conserved residues G83, D707, D709 and S752 are essential for PAP activity of Arabidopsis PAH1 (Fig. 4A). To determine the significance of these conserved residues for nuclear localization, we introduced point mutations into a GFP‐AtPAH1 fusion at the respective sites of AtPAH1 and investigated whether they exhibited oleate‐induced nuclear localization. As shown in Fig. 7C–F, GFP‐AtPAH1 mutant alleles localized to the nucleus of yeast cells cultivated in the presence of 125 μm oleic acid. These results demonstrated that conserved amino acid residues G83, D707, D709 and S752 are required for PAP activity of AtPAH1, although they are not required for nuclear localization. Previously, Santos‐Rosa et al. [CITATION] indicated that yeast PAH1 could also play a role in transcriptional regulation of PL synthesis. In addition, mammalian Lipin‐1 has been also suggested to act as a transcriptional co‐activator in the regulation of lipid metabolism gene expression [CITATION, CITATION]. Similar to the findings of the present study, Donkor et al. [CITATION] have shown that the equivalent serine residue in mouse Lipin‐1 and Lipin‐2 was required for PAP activity, although it was not required for transcriptional co‐activator function. The results obtained in the present study suggest that similar mechanisms of PAH1 trafficking to the nucleus might also be present in plants. Eastmond et al. [CITATION] determined that the expression of AtPAH1 and AtPAH2 is considerably higher in developing seeds, where a substantial flux of FAs to TAG occurs. Similar analyses carried out in our laboratory corroborate these findings (Fig. 8). However, analysis of lipids from seeds of an Arabidopsis Atpah1/Atpah2 double knockout showed that TAG content was not substantially reduced relative to WT [CITATION]. Therefore, although mRNA accumulation suggests that PAHs might have a key function in seeds, their role in storage lipid metabolism remains unclear.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A. thaliana plants (Columbia‐O) were cultivated in a growth chamber at 22 °C with an 18 h photoperiod (120 μE·m−2·s−1).  A. thaliana PAH1 ORF was amplified from a cDNA clone obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center using primers: F1: 5′‐ATAGGTACCTATGGGGTTGGTTGGAAGAG‐3′ (KpnI site is underlined) and R1: 5′‐CGCGCGGCCGCTCATTCTACCTCTTCTATTGGCA‐3′ (NotI site is underlined) and ligated into the pYES2/NT (Invitrogen, Burlington, ON, Canada) yeast expression vector at the KpnI and NotI restriction sites. A. thaliana PAH2 ORF was amplified using a cDNA preparation from developing seeds with primers: F2: 5′‐ATAGGATCCAGATGAATGCCGTCGGTAGG‐3′ (BamHI site is underlined) and R2: 5′‐CGCGCGGCCGCTCACATAAGCGATGGAGGAG‐3′ (NotI site is underlined) and then ligated into the pYES2/NT vector at the BamHI and NotI sites. Under the control of the GAL1 promoter, the PAH1 genes in the pYES2/NT yeast vector were expressed as an N‐terminal fusion protein to the Xpress epitope and polyhistidine (6 × His) tag. B. napus PAHs were isolated using sequence information identified in ESTs database (http://brassica.bbsrc.ac.uk). These partial B. napus PAH1 homolog sequences were used to design primers to amplify the 5′ and 3′ ends of the cDNA using the SMART RACE cDNA Amplification kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) and a cDNA preparation from B. napus developing seeds. After sequence assembly to determine the full‐length sequence of the cDNA, the ORF was amplified using the primer F3: 5′‐ATAGGTACCTATGAGTTTGGTCGGAAG‐3′ (KpnI site is underlined) and R3: 5′‐CGCGCGGCCGCTCAGTCAACCTCTTCTACCG‐3′ (NotI site is underlined), and subsequently cloned into the KpnI and NotI sites of pYES2.1/NT expression vector. The Arabidopsis and B. napus PAHs in pYES2.1/NT were transformed into S. cerevisiae mutant strain pah1Δ [CITATION] using the S. c. EasyComp transformation kit (Invitrogen). For yeast cells, the pah1Δ mutant and WT (Inv Sc1 strain; Invitrogen) transformed with pYES2.1/NT/lacZ plasmid (Invitrogen), designated as LacZ and WT in the present study, were used as controls. The transformants were selected and grown as described previously [CITATION]. Briefly, yeast cultures were cultivated in minimal medium containing 0.67% (w/v) yeast nitrogen base, 2% (w/v) raffinose, 20 mg·L−1 adenine, arginine, tryptophan, methionine, histidine and tyrosine, 30 mg·L−1 lysine and 100 mg·L−1 leucine. The cultures were grown at 30 °C in a rotary shaker at 250 r.p.m. Expression of the recombinant genes was induced using minimal medium containing 2% (w/v) galactose and 1% (w/v) raffinose.  To introduce point mutations into the Arabidopsis PAH1 coding region, a QuikChange™ Site‐Directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, Mississauga, ON, Canada) was used. The primers used were: G83A (F4: 5′‐ATGTATCTTGATAATTCTGCTGAAGCATATTTCATCAGG‐3′ and R4: 5′‐CCTGATGAAATATGCTTCAGCAGAATTATCAAGATACAT‐3′); D707A (F5: 5′‐ ACCAAGATAGTGATTTCAGCTGTTGATGGAACTATAAC‐3′, R5: 5′‐GTTATAGTTCCATCAACAGCTGAAATCACTATCTTGGT‐3′); D709A (F6: 5′‐TAGTGATTTCAGATGTTGCTGGAACTATAACTAAATC‐3′, R6: 5′‐GATTTAGTTATAGTTCCAGCAACATCTGAAATCACTA‐3′); and S752A (F7: 5′‐CAGTTACTGTTTTTGGCCGCTCGTGCCATCGTTC‐3′ and R7: 5′‐GAACGATGGCACGAGCGGCCAAAAACAGTAACTG‐3′). The primers used to introduce a point mutation into BnPAH1A were: G83A (F8: 5′‐TATCTAGACAATTCCGCGGAAGCGTATTTCATC‐3′ and R8: 5′‐GATGAAATACGCTTCCGCGGAATTGTCTAGATA‐3′); D6161A (F9: 5′‐GATTGTAATTTCAGCTGTTGATGGAACTATA‐3′ and R9: 5′‐TATAGTTCCATCAACAGCTGAAATTACAATC‐3′); and D618A (F10: 5′‐GTAATTTCAGATGTTGCTGGAACTATAACTAAA‐3′ and R10: 5′‐TTTAGTTATAGTTCCAGCAACATCTGAAATTAC‐3′).  Primers were complementary to opposite strands of pYES2.1/NT (Invitrogen) yeast expression vector containing either the Arabidopsis PAH1 or B. napus PAH1A gene. The presence of the desired mutation was confirmed by DNA sequencing.  To prepare the GFP‐AtPAH1 fusion, the coding sequences of GFP and Arabidopsis PAH1 were PCR amplified separately using Pfx Platinum polymerase (Invitrogen), which was used for all PCR reactions in the present study. The GFP fragment was generated by PCR with primers F11: 5′‐ATAGGTACCTATGACGCACAATCCCACTATC‐3′ (KpnI site is underlined) and R11: 5′‐CCAACTCTTCCAACCAACCCCATTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATG‐3′ (the sequence found in AtPAH1 is in italics). Arabidopsis PAH1 fragment was amplified with primers: F12: 5′‐CATGGCATGGATGAACTATACAAAATGGGGTTGGTTGGAAGAGTTGG‐3′ (the sequence found in GFP is in bold) and R12: 5′‐CGCGCGGCCGCTCATTCTACCTCTTCTATTGGCA‐3′ (NotI site is underlined). The resulting amplicons were combined, re‐amplified with primers F11 and R12 and then cloned into the KpnI and NotI sites of pYES2.1/NT (Invitrogen).  Point mutations: G83A, D707A, D709A and S752A at the corresponding sites of Arabidopsis PAH1 coding region in GFP‐PAH1 fusion construct were introduced with primers as described above using QuikChange™ Site‐Directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) and their presence was confirmed by DNA sequencing.  Total protein (40 μg) was separated onto an 8% SDS/PAGE gel using standard protocols [CITATION]. After electrophoresis, proteins were electrotransferred (1.5 h at 180 mA and 4 °C) to poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane (GE Healthcare, Baie d’Urfe, Canada) using a Mini Trans‐blot (Bio‐Rad, Mississauga, ON, Canada) apparatus and transfer buffer [190 mm glycine, 25 mm Tris, 0.1% SDS, 20% (v/v) methanol]. Anti‐His G‐HRP serum (Invitrogen) was used at a dilution of 1 : 10 000. The proteins were detected using the Amersham ECL Plus Western Blotting Detection kit (GE Healthcare). The fluorescent signal was detected with the Tyhoon Imaging System (GE Healthcare).  Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis tissues with the RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Mississauga, ON, Canada) and used to synthesize single‐stranded cDNA with the Superscript II reverse transcriptase followed by RNAse H treatment (both obtained from Invitrogen). The product of these reactions was used for quantitative RT‐PCR using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR (Invitrogen) in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. PCR was performed in a 7900HT Fast Real‐Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and efficiency was calculated through serial dilutions of the initial amount of RNA. The relative expression level was calculated using the comparative Ct method after normalizing to controls using three reference genes (At4g34270, At4g33380 and At1g58050) with stable expression levels in Arabidopsis [CITATION]. The pair of primers used for each reference gene was: At4g34270 Ref1Fwd 5′‐CATACTGTGGAAGTGAAGTAGTTGAGAA‐3′ and Ref1Rev 5′‐CTTCCCCCTTTGGATTAGCTTT‐3′; At4g33380 Ref2Fwd 5′‐TTTGAAAAGCTTTGAGGACAAATCT‐3′ and Ref2Rev 5′‐TTCTCATTGCGCCACGTTT‐3′; At1g58050 Ref3Fwd 5′‐GAATTGCCAGTGAACTTTTCTAACG‐3′ and Ref3Rev 5′‐TCAGCAGACACATTCCAATCTTTC‐3′; AtPAH1 AtPAH1Fwd 5′‐TCACCAGATGGCCTATTTCCA‐3′ and AtPAH1Rev 5′‐GATCTTGAACTCATGAGGTGCTCTT‐3′; and AtPAH2 AtPAH2Fwd 5′‐GCCTCAGTCACAAGACAATTTCTAGT‐3′ and AtPAH2Rev 5′‐AGGCCCATCCGGCAAT‐3′.  Total lipids were extracted from induced yeast cells by the method of Bligh and Dyer [CITATION]. The internal standards of 1,2‐dinonadecanoyl‐sn‐glycero‐3‐phosphocholine (19 : 0‐phosphatidylcholine; 100 μg in methanol) and triheptadecanoin (17 : 0‐TAG; 50 μg in chloroform) were added to each sample to permit quantitative fatty acid analysis. Lipid extracts were separated by 1D TLC on silica gel plates (SIL G25, 0.25 mm; Macherey‐Nagel, Düren, Germany) using the solvent system hexane/diethyl ether/glacial acetic acid (70 : 30 : 1 v/v). Lipid classes were visualized under UV after spraying with 0.05% primuline solution. Spots corresponding to TAG and PL were scraped out and transmethylated with 3 m methanolic HCl at 80 °C for 1 h. The fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) were extracted with hexane and dried under N2. Finally, FAMEs were resuspended in 1 mL of iso‐octane with an internal standard (21 : 0, methyl heneicosanoin, 0.1 mg·mL−1). FAMEs were analyzed on an Agilent6890N Gas Chromatograph (Agilent Technologies, Wilmington, DE, USA) with a 5975 inert XL Mass Selective Detector equipped with an auto sampler. FAMEs were separated using a DB‐23 capillary column (30 m × 0.25 mm × 0.25 μm) with a constant helium flow of 1.2 mL·min−1 and the temperature program: 165 °C hold for 4 min, 10 °C·min−1 to 180 °C, hold 5 min and 10 °C·min−1 to 230 °C hold 5 min. Integration events were detected and identified between 2 and 19.5 min, and compared against a Nu‐Chek 463 gas‐liquid chromatography standard (Nu‐Chek Prep, Inc., Elysian, MN, USA).  Yeast homogenates were prepared essentially as described by Han et al. [CITATION]. Briefly, cells were harvested and washed with 5 mL of ice‐cold isolation buffer (50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 300 mm sucrose, 2 mm dithiothreithol and 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride), pelleted by centrifugation and resuspended in 500 μL of isolation buffer. All buffers were pre‐treated with AG 50W‐X8 (Bio‐Rad) ion exchange resin Na+ salt form to minimize the presence of Mg2+. Cells were broken using three 60‐s pulses with a Mini‐ BeadbeaterTM (BioSpec Products, Bartlesville, OK, USA) using 0.5 mm glass beads. The homogenate was collected and briefly centrifuged to remove unbroken cells. The protein concentration of each lysate preparation was determined using the Bio‐Rad method [CITATION].  For the PAP enzyme assay, initially, we used the procedure described by Han et al. [CITATION]. Essentially, this procedure was designed to study the kinetic of purified PAP using a surface dilution kinetic model in which PA is dispersed in micelles of Triton X100. The Mg2+‐dependent activity, which distinguishes PAP from LPP activity, was approximately half of the total activity and therefore our differential assay was subject to a larger error than anticipated. We then compared this assay with one that we had designed to measure PAP in homogenates of mammalian cells [CITATION, CITATION].  This latter assay maximizes the level of PAP activity and decreases that of LPP activity. Our optimized assay system contained in a final volume of 0.1 mL: 100 mm Tris buffer, pH 7.5, 1 mm MgCl2, 200 μm tetrahydrolipstatin (to inhibit diacylglycerol lipases), 2 mg·mL−1 fatty acid‐poor bovine serum albumin and 0.6 mm PA labeled with [3H]palmitate (∼ 1 × 105 d.p.m./assay), which was dispersed in 0.4 mm phosphatidylcholine, and 1 mm EDTA plus 1 mm EGTA that was used to prepare the lipid substrate. Mg2+ was removed from all buffers by treating with AG 50W‐X8 (Bio‐Rad) ion exchange resin Na+ salt form [CITATION]. Reactions were stopped after incubation at 30 °C with 2.2 mL of chloroform containing 0.08% olive oil as a carrier for neutral lipids. Next, 0.8 g of basic alumina was added to absorb the PA and any [3H]palmitate formed by phospholipase A type activities [CITATION]. The tubes were centrifuged and 1 mL of the chloroform, which contained the [3H]DAG product, was dried and quantified by scintillation counting. The times of incubation (normally 30 min) were adjusted so that < 15% of the PA was consumed during the incubation. Total PAP activities were calculated from measurements at three different protein concentrations to ensure the proportionality of the assay. Parallel incubations were performed in the absence of Mg2+ to block PAP activity and to measure the LPP activity, which had to be subtracted from the total to give the PAP activity. This method gave ∼ 10‐fold greater total activity than the Triton X‐100 micelle assay. The Mg2+‐independent LPP activity was only ∼ 10% of the total activity. Therefore, this assay provided us with a more accurate method of determining PAP activity in homogenates where the measurement of kinetic constants was not required.  Yeast pah1Δ cells expressing the GFP‐AtPAH1 fusion were induced for 16 h using minimal medium containing 2% (w/v) galactose, 1% (w/v) raffinose, 0.6% ethanol/tyloxapol (5 : 1, v/v) without or with supplementation with 125 μm oleic acid. A Leica TCS‐SP5 multiphoton confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) was used to examine the subcellular localization of GFP fusions in yeast cells. For the imaging of GFP, a 488 nm laser excitation was used at 30% and 520–570 nm emission. Nuclei were identified by DNA staining with 4,6‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindole dilactate (DAPI; Sigma‐Aldrich, Oakville, ON, Canada). Briefly, 5 μL of fresh cell suspension were mixed with 5 μL of 80% glycerol containing 50 ng·mL−1 of DAPI. The mix was placed onto specimen slides, covered with a cover glass and visualized immediately. Imaging of DAPI was conducted using a 405 nm laser excitation at 10% and 420–450 nm emission. Data were acquired using a × 63/1.2 HCX PL APO objective. 
