!~ABS~! Copper is an essential micronutrient that functions as a redox cofactor in multiple plant processes, including photosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana possesses a conserved family of CTR-like high-affinity copper transport proteins denoted as COPT1-5. COPT1, the only family member that is functionally characterized, participates in plant copper acquisition. However, little is known about the function of the other Arabidopsis COPT proteins in the transport and distribution of copper. Here, we show that a functional fusion of COPT5 to the green fluorescent protein localizes in Arabidopsis cells to the prevacuolar compartment. Plants defective in COPT5 do not exhibit any significant phenotype under copper-sufficient conditions, but their growth is compromised under copper limitation. Under extreme copper deficiency, two independent copt5 knockout mutant lines exhibit severe defects in vegetative growth and root elongation, low chlorophyll content, and impairment in the photosynthetic electron transfer. All these phenotypes are rescued when the wild-type copy of the COPT5 gene is retransformed into a copt5 knockout line or when copper, but not other metals, are added to the medium. COPT5 is expressed in vascular tissues, with elevated levels in roots. Taken together, these results suggest that COPT5 plays an important role in the plant response to environmental copper scarcity, probably by remobilizing copper from prevacuolar vesicles, which could act as internal stores or recycling vesicles to provide the metal cofactor to key copper-dependent processes such as photosynthesis.
!~RES~! Previous results have demonstrated that the heterologous expression of the Arabidopsis COPT5 gene in S. cerevisiae partially complements the respiratory and Cu transport defect exhibited by a ctr1Δctr3Δ mutant (CITATION). To investigate the specific function of COPT5 in plants, we isolated three independent Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines. Two mutant lines were obtained from the SALK collection (copt5-1 and copt5-2), whereas the third line was received from the NASC collection (copt5-3; see Experimental procedures for more details). In each case, the T-DNA insertion mutants were self-pollinated, and homozygous lines were isolated (see Figure S1). The copt5-1 line contained a T-DNA insertion located 72 nucleotides upstream of the COPT5 open reading frame (ORF) and was, therefore, ruled out for further analyses (data not shown). On the other hand, the copt5-2 and copt5-3 lines exhibited a T-DNA insertion at the fourth and eighth nucleotide of COPT5 ORF, respectively (Figure 1a). It is important to stress that the expression of the COPT5 gene was completely abolished in both the copt5-2 and copt5-3 mutant lines (Figure 1b). Moreover, a wild-type allele of the COPT5 gene, including 357 nucleotides of its own promoter region, was used to retransform the copt5-2 mutant. Homozygous copt5-2 lines complemented with the exogenous COPT5 gene construct rescued the COPT5 gene expression (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] As compared with the wild-type Arabidopsis plants, no significant difference was observed in the copt5 mutant lines in terms of growth or endogenous Cu levels when grown in soil (data not shown). However, 6-day-old copt5-2 and copt5-3 seedlings showed slightly reduced root length when grown on a standard MS½ medium (Figure 2a,b). As the standard MS½ agar medium (CITATION) is slightly deficient in Cu, as indicated by the activation in the expression of the high-affinity Cu transporter COPT1 under these conditions (CITATION; and A. Garcia-Molina, L. Peñarrubia and S. Puig, unpublished data), we investigated root elongation in the copt5 mutant lines grown on the MS½ medium supplemented with additional Cu. No difference was observed between the root length of the wild-type and the copt5 mutant lines when 10 μm CuSO4 was added to the growth medium (Figure 2a,b). These results suggest that the phenotype observed for the copt5 mutant plants on the MS½ medium is due to Cu deficiency. To further ascertain this possibility, we compared the root length of the wild-type and the copt5 mutant seedlings grown on a standard MS½ medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of bathocuproine disulphonic acid (BCS), a specific Cu+ chelator. As observed in Figure 2, the root length of the copt5-2 and copt5-3 seedlings diminished as the concentration of BCS in the growth medium gradually increased. On the MS½ plates with 100 μm BCS, the root length of the copt5 mutant plants decreased by 76% if compared with the wild-type plants (6.7 mm versus 28 mm; Figure 2b). To further analyze the copt5 root phenotype, we treated both wild-type and copt5 mutant lines with fluoroglucinol, which stains lignified cell walls (CITATION). Although no differences were observed for Cu-sufficient conditions (data not shown), the roots of the copt5 mutants displayed a significant increase in cell wall lignification when grown under Cu-deficient conditions (Figure S2). [[FIGURE]] As the plants in these experiments were germinated and grown on Cu-deficient media as compared to Cu-sufficient conditions, the phenotype observed for the copt5 mutant lines could be attributed to defects during seed germination rather than to defects in root growth. To further assess whether the defect in root growth was specific, both the wild-type and the two copt5 mutants were grown for 6 days on a Cu-sufficient medium (MS½ + 2.5 μm CuSO4). Then, seedlings were either transferred to Cu-deficient conditions (MS½ + 40 μm BCS) or kept under Cu-sufficient conditions for 7 additional days. Root length measurements revealed that both copt5 mutant plants still show a short root phenotype when grown under Cu deficiency (see Figure S3). These results indicate that the COPT5 protein performs an important function during root growth when Cu availability is low. To further test the specific effect of Cu scarcity on the root growth of copt5 plants, we examined whether the addition of different metal ions to the MS½ medium supplemented with 50 μm BCS could rescue the phenotype. Indeed, the addition of 30 μm CuSO4 was sufficient to rescue copt5 root growth, although the same concentration of other metal ions, including iron, zinc, manganese and cadmium, did not restore copt5 root growth when added to the BCS-containing medium (Figure 2c). Besides copper, only silver, which is isoelectric to Cu+, completely rescued the root growth defect of the copt5 plants on the BCS plates (Figure 2c). Taken together, these data strongly suggest that the root growth of the copt5 mutant plants is highly and specifically sensitive to Cu deficiency. In addition to the root phenotype described above, a slight growth reduction was observed for the copt5 mutants grown under low Cu conditions (standard MS½ medium, data not shown). Thus, we decided to analyze the exacerbated copt5-associated phenotypes when plants are grown for prolonged periods under Cu deprivation induced by the BCS Cu chelator. As Figure 3(a) depicts, the copt5-2 and copt5-3 mutant lines exhibit growth inhibition and chlorosis, if compared with the wild-type plants or the copt5-2 knockout plant complemented with the COPT5 gene (C5), after growing for 3 weeks under extreme Cu-deficient conditions (MS½ medium containing 100 μm BCS). These differences disappeared when plants were grown under Cu sufficiency (Figure 3a). To further quantify the differences found under Cu-deficient conditions, we determined the fresh weight of all the lines grown under either Cu sufficiency or Cu-limiting conditions (Figure 3b). A three-fold decrease in fresh weight was observed for the copt5 mutant lines grown on the MS½ medium containing 100 μm BCS, as compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 3b). The copt5 mutant plants grown on the MS½ medium containing 1 μm CuSO4 show a slight growth defect (Figure 3b), which was completely abolished at higher Cu concentrations (data not shown). A partial recovery of fresh weight was observed for the copt5-2 knockout mutant complemented with the COPT5 gene (Figure 3b). Furthermore, the copt5 mutants are chlorotic when grown for 3 weeks under Cu-deficient conditions (Figure 3a). To quantify this observation, we determined the chlorophyll levels when plants were grown under either Cu-sufficient or Cu-deficient conditions. While no difference in chlorophyll content was observed on the MS½ medium containing 1 μm CuSO4, an approximate 50% decrease in the chlorophyll levels was noted for the copt5 mutants when grown in the presence of the BCS Cu chelator (Figure 3c). The levels of both chlorophyll a and b equally diminished in the copt5 mutant grown under Cu deficiency conditions (data not shown). Collectively, these results indicate that the growth of COPT5-defective plants is inhibited under severe Cu limitation, suggesting an important and specific function of the Arabidopsis COPT5 protein under Cu deprivation. [[FIGURE]] The measurement of chlorophyll fluorescence from intact leaves is not only a reliable and non intrusive method for monitoring the photosynthetic performance of plants, but is also an excellent biosensor to evaluate the extent of plant tolerance to environmental stresses (CITATION). To test whether the copt5 mutants are affected in photosynthesis, we determined multiple fluorescence-based parameters associated with the photosynthetic electron transport chain function under both Cu-sufficient and Cu-deficient conditions (see Experimental procedures for details). For these experiments, we chose a light intensity (PAR) of 120 μmol m−2 sec−1, which is optimal for wild-type plants grown under Cu-deficient conditions (MS½ with 100 μm BCS), and low enough to avoid the photoinhibition of the copt5 mutant (data not shown). We firstly determined that the values of multiple fluorescence parameters of photosystem II (PSII) [the maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm), the quantum yield of photochemical energy conversion (ΦPSII), the quantum yield of regulated non-photochemical energy loss (ΦNPQ), and the quantum yield of non-regulated non-photochemical energy loss (ΦNO)] were similar for the wild-type plants grown on either soil or Cu-sufficient MS½ medium (data not shown). Given the difficulties in reducing Cu availability on soil in a reproducible manner, we performed these experiments on MS½ medium. When the wild-type, copt5-2 mutant, and copt5-2 complemented with the COPT5 gene seedlings were grown under Cu-sufficient conditions, no significant differences were observed for the Fv/Fm, ΦPSII, ΦNPQ, and ΦNO parameters (Figures 4 and S4). These results suggest that the COPT5 protein does not play a relevant role in the PSII function under Cu-sufficient conditions. [[FIGURE]] When Cu availability was limited by adding 100 μm BCS to the MS½ medium, Arabidopsis wild-type seedlings displayed a slight decrease in Fv/Fm (approximately 13% decrease), and a more notable reduction in ΦPSII (approximately 60% decrease; Figure 4a,b). Furthermore under these Cu-deficient conditions, the non-photochemical energy in PSII was mostly lost by a non-regulated mechanism (ΦNO > ΦNPQ; Figure S4). These results indicate that Arabidopsis plants display defects in the photosynthetic electron chain, including a low photochemical activity when Cu availability is extremely low. It is important to note that under Cu-deficient conditions, Fv/Fm (approximately 4-fold decrease) and ΦPSII (approximately 13-fold decrease) were drastically reduced in the copt5-2 mutants, but not in the wild-type and the COPT5-complemented lines, when they were grown under Cu-deficient conditions (Figure 4). No differences between the lines were observed for ΦNPQ and ΦNO (Figure S4). Taken together, these data suggest that COPT5 is crucial for the efficiency of PSII photochemistry and, therefore, for the transfer of electrons through PSII when Cu availability is extremely limited. To further address the defects observed in the photosynthetic electron transport chain, we determined the redox state of the quinone acceptor QA of PSII (qP parameter). As shown in Figure 4(c), QA exists mainly in its oxidized state for the wild-type, copt5-2 and the COPT5-complemented plants under Cu-sufficient conditions (qP ≈ 0.99, which means that approximately 1% of the total QA is reduced). Under Cu-deficient conditions, the QA in the copt5-2 mutants lowered more (QA reduced by approximately 80%) than in either the wild-type (QA reduced by approximately 6%) or the COPT5-complemented plants (QA reduced by approximately 19%; Figure 4c), which is consistent with a defect in the electron transport chain after PSII in the copt5 mutant lines under Cu limitation. Collectively, these data strongly suggest that the COPT5 Cu transport protein is important for photosynthetic electron transfer when plants are grown under extreme Cu-deficient conditions. Furthermore, they are also consistent with a defect in the Cu delivery to the Cu-dependent plastocyanin electron transporter, which is situated after PSII. Growth assays performed in S. cerevisiae have shown that Arabidopsis COPT1 fully complements the respiratory defect displayed by a ctr1Δctr3Δ yeast mutant growing on non fermentable carbon sources, whereas COPT5 only partially rescues this phenotype (CITATION). A potential explanation for these results could be the different subcellular localization for both proteins. While the COPT1 protein was recently localized to the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis cells (CITATION), the localization of the COPT5 protein has not yet been determined. A recent proteomic approach has identified COPT5 as a tonoplast protein in cultured Arabidopsis cells (CITATION). Members of the CTR-family of high-affinity Cu transporters have been previously localized to the vacuolar membrane of S. cerevisiae and S. pombe (CITATION; CITATION). However, no plant CTR-type protein has been previously localized in an internal compartment. In order to monitor the COPT5 protein, its coding sequence was tagged at its carboxyl-terminus with the human influenza virus hemagglutinin HA epitope. The COPT5–HA sequence was cloned under the control of the constitutive CaMV35S promoter, and introduced by Agrobacterium transformation into the wild-type Col 0 Arabidopsis plants. These plants were grown in soil for 4 weeks, and the total protein extracts from leaves were subjected to a 20–47% (w/v) sucrose density gradient centrifugation (see Experimental procedures). The different protein fractions were collected and analyzed by western blot with antibodies against multiple organelle markers, including the H+-ATPase AHA3 (plasma membrane), plastocyanin (chloroplast), the gamma subunit of COPI vesicles SEC21 (cis-Golgi), the syntaxin SYP21 (prevacuolar compartment, PVC), and the vacuolar pyrophosphatase V-HPPase (tonoplast). As shown in Figure 5, COPT5 displays a distribution pattern clearly different from the chloroplast marker PC, which is recovered from low-density fractions. However, the slight differences observed between the rest of the markers are not sufficient to unequivocally establish COPT5 subcellular localization. To further ascertain the specific subcellular localization of the COPT5 protein, we fused the COPT5 coding sequence to the green fluorescent protein (GFP). As seen in Figure 6(a), expression of the COPT5–GFP fusion protein in yeast provides a partial complementation of the ctr1Δctr3Δ growth defect in glycerol, as previously described for COPT5 (CITATION). Yeast cells expressing COPT5–GFP were incubated with the lipophilic styryl dye FM4-64, which mostly localizes to the vacuolar membrane under these conditions. As shown in Figure 6(b), COPT5–GFP localizes intracellularly and only partially overlaps the yeast vacuolar membrane. Therefore, a likely explanation for the partial complementation of COPT5 to the respiratory defects of the yeast cells defective in high-affinity Cu transport through the plasma membrane could be its mostly intracellular localization pattern. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To ascertain the subcellular localization of the COPT5 protein in plants, we expressed the COPT5–GFP fusion protein under the control of the endogenous COPT5 promoter in wild-type Arabidopsis plants, and analyzed the roots by confocal microscopy. Importantly, the expression of the COPT5–GFP fusion protein complements the root elongation phenotype of copt5-2 plants under Cu-deficient conditions (Figure S5). To distinguish separate cells, we visualized the cell wall of root cells by staining with propidium iodide (Figure 7a, red fluorescence). Interestingly, COPT5–GFP displays an intracellular punctate pattern throughout the root cells (Figure 7a). When cells from the shoot were analyzed, the intracellular COPT5–GFP pattern did not colocalize with the chloroplasts (Figure S6). Instead COPT5–GFP partially colocalized with the endocytic tracer FM4-64 (Figure S7). To further ascertain the subcellular compartment corresponding to this localization pattern, we transiently expressed the COPT5–GFP protein into Arabidopsis protoplasts under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. The COPT5–GFP signal displays a similar punctate distribution that, in most cases, localizes in the proximity of the chloroplasts (Figure 7a). To determine the nature of these cytosolic foci or vesicles, we simultaneously expressed the p24mut1 protein that was epitope-tagged with the red fluorescence protein (RFP; CITATION). Previous studies have demonstrated that the mutation of the dilysine motif within an Arabidopsis p24 protein (p24mut1) leads to a punctate distribution that mainly corresponds to the PVC, as previously demonstrated by its colocalization with GFP-BP80 (CITATION). As shown in Figure 7(a), the signal from COPT5–GFP overlaps p24mut1-RFP, indicating that the COPT5 protein mainly localizes to the PVC in Arabidopsis cells. The topology associated with the CTR/COPT proteins predicts a directional transport of Cu toward the cytosol (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, these results suggest that the intracellular COPT5 protein could function in mobilizing Cu from the lumen of prevacuolar vesicles toward the cytosol. [[FIGURE]] Previous studies using mature leaves excised from Arabidopsis plants indicate that, unlike COPT1 and COPT2, the steady-state levels of COPT5 mRNA do not significantly change under a different Cu status (CITATION). More recent results have demonstrated that the COPT1 and COPT2 expression in Arabidopsis roots is up-regulated in a SPL7-dependent manner when plants are grown under Cu-deficient conditions (CITATION). To further study how Cu influences COPT5 expression, we grew Arabidopsis seedlings for 7 or 25 days in media with different Cu availabilities, extracted total RNA and analyzed the COPT5 expression by RT-PCR and qPCR. While the COPT1 expression increases upon Cu depletion for 7 days, the COPT5 mRNA levels do not significantly change (Figure S8a, and data not shown). Similar results were obtained for the 25-day-old seedlings (Figure S8b). To address whether the regulation by Cu status occurs at the protein level, we grew plants constitutively expressing COPT5–HA for 1 week under the control of the CaMV35S promoter under Cu deficiency (MS½ with 50 μm BCS) or Cu excess (MS½ with 10 μm CuSO4). The western blot analysis did not show any significant alteration in the COPT5 protein levels (Figure S8c). These results suggest that the steady-state COPT5 mRNA and protein levels are not regulated by Cu availability. To further investigate the role of COPT5 in Arabidopsis physiology, we decided to determine the expression pattern of COPT5 at the tissue level. For this purpose, we fused the promoter region of COPT5 gene (pCOPT5, from nucleotide −357 to the ATG) to the uidA reporter gene, which encodes β-glucuronidase (GUS). Stable transgenic Arabidopsis lines harboring the pCOPT5–GUS construct were obtained and analyzed for GUS activity. The histological staining shows that COPT5 is highly expressed in primary root and root hairs (Figure 8a,b). A more detailed dissection of the COPT5 expression in roots reveals that it is associated with the endodermis and vascular tissues (Figure 8c). In the aerial part, the COPT5 expression levels are much lower than those detected in roots (Figure 8a). Once more, the COPT5 expression is mostly concentrated in the vascular tissues of the hypocotyl, the cotyledons, and the leaves at different developmental stages (Figure 8d,e; and data not shown). We also observed GUS staining in the trichomes, the apical caulinar meristem and the vascular tissue of etiolated seedlings (Figure 8f–h). The histological analysis of reproductive organs from adult plants shows COPT5 expression in ovules and pistils (Figure 8i,j). The filament is the only stained structure in the anther (Figure 8j), and unlike the COPT1 Cu transporter (CITATION), COPT5 is not expressed in pollen (Figure 8k). Finally, siliques show the COPT5 expression at the level of vascular conducts, embryos, and furuncles (Figure 8l–n). The embryo displays a homogenous expression pattern (Figure 8l). No alterations in the COPT5 spatial expression pattern were observed when the pCOPT5–GUS lines were grown in media with different Cu availabilities (data not shown). Thus, COPT5 is mostly expressed along the vascular conducts of the plant, predominantly in roots, which is consistent with a function in Cu supply and distribution throughout the plant. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis seeds (Col 0 ecotype) were sterilized and stratified for 2 days at 4°C. Then, seeds were sown on Murashige–Skoog at half-strength (MS½) containing 0.8% agar and 1% sucrose (CITATION), and moved to chambers with a photoperiod of 12 h light (65 μmol m−2, 23°C) and 12 h darkness (16°C). For the root elongation assays shown in Figure 2, seeds were germinated on the MS½ medium supplemented with BCS and the indicated amounts of metals, and were grown for 6 days. For the analysis shown in Figure 3, seedlings were grown in a similar fashion for 3 weeks. For the root elongation assays represented in Figure S3, seeds were germinated and grown for 6 days on MS½ + 2.5 μm CuSO4, then seedlings were transferred to either MS½ + 40 μm BCS or kept on MS½ + 2.5 μm CuSO4 for 7 additional days. The root length and fresh weight of five seedlings were determined, and the mean and standard deviation of three biologically independent experiments are represented. The entire COPT5 coding sequence was cloned in frame into the 35Ω–sGFP (S65T) plasmid (CITATION) to obtain the p35Ω–COPT5–GFP plasmid, which was used for the transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The COPT5–GFP sequence was amplified and cloned into the p426GPD yeast vector to obtain the p426GPD–COPT5–GFP plasmid. Plasmids p426GPD–COPT1 and p426GPD–COPT5 have been previously described (CITATION). The coding sequence and 357 nucleotides of the promoter region of the COPT5 gene were amplified and cloned into the pFP101 vector (CITATION) without its CaMV35S promoter to obtain the pFP101–COPT5 construct used in copt5-2 complementation. The uidA coding sequence and the COPT5 promoter region were amplified and cloned into the pFP101 vector without its CaMV35S promoter to obtain the pCOPT5–GUS construct used to determine the COPT5 spatial expression pattern. The pFP101–CaMV35S–COPT5–HA construct used for the COPT5 overexpression was obtained by an amplification of COPT5 ORF and cloning into the pFP101 vector. The sequence encoding for the hemagglutinin HA antigen was included with the reverse oligonucleotide to tag the COPT5 protein at its carboxyl terminus. To construct the pCOPT5–COPT5–GFP plasmid, the promoter region of COPT5 (amplified from the pCOPT5–GUS plasmid) was fused to the COPT5–GFP sequence (amplified from the p35Ω–COPT5–GFP plasmid) to be cloned into the pFP101 vector without its CaMV35S promoter by the overlap extension method (CITATION). The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines, copt5-1 and copt5-2, were obtained from the SALK collection [NASC ID: N559688 and N593550, respectively (CITATION)], whereas the copt5-3 mutant line was obtained from the NASC collection [NASC ID: N842717 (CITATION)]. The copt5 mutant lines were self-pollinated, and homozygous lines were obtained. Oligonucleotides COPT5-L (5′-TTAACATCAGCCTGCACTTCC-3′), COPT5-R (5′-TTATCAAGCACATGGACATGG-3′), COPT5-2 (5′-GATTTCGGAACCACCATCAAACAGGA-3′), and COPT5-3 (5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′) were used to analyze the insertion site of the T-DNA within the COPT5 locus. The copt5-2 homozygous line was transformed by floral dipping (CITATION) with the pFP101–COPT5 construct to obtain a COPT5 complemented line. To obtain the COPT5OE lines, the pFP101–CaMV35S–COPT5–HA construct was integrated into the genome of the Arabidopsis wild-type plants, and the lines with the highest COPT5–HA expression were selected by high-affinity anti-HA (3F10; Roche, http://www.roche.com ) western blot analyses. The oligonucleotides amplifying the whole ORF were used to ascertain the COPT5 expression levels by RT-PCR. The yeast ctr1Δctr3Δ mutant strain was transformed with p426GPD, or with a vector containing COPT1, COPT5 or COPT5–GFP, and was assayed for growth on glucose (YPD: 1% yeast extract, 2% bactopeptone, 2% glucose), glycerol (YPEG: 1% yeast extract, 2% bactopeptone, 2% ethanol, 3% glycerol), and glycerol + Cu (YPEG supplemented with 100 μm CuSO4) media solidified with 1.5% agar (CITATION). Leaves from 4-week-old plants grown in soil were homogenized in ice-cold homogenization buffer [8% (w/v) sucrose; 3 mm imidazole–HCl, pH 7.4] containing 1 mm DTT, 5 mm EDTA, and 0.2% (w/v) Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com). The extract was centrifuged at 800 g for 10 min at 4°C. Approximately 1.8 ml of the supernatant (crude membranes) were added to 400 μl of 42% (w/v) sucrose, and was centrifuged at 163 000 g for 1 h at 4°C in a swinging bucket Beckman Coulter MLS-50 Optimax Ultracentrifuge Rotor. The interphase was recovered and resuspended with homogenization buffer to obtain a final concentration of 15% (w/v) sucrose. The sucrose concentration was measured with a refractometer. The membrane fraction (approximately 1 ml) was added on a continuous sucrose density gradient (4 ml) of between 20% and 47% (w/v) sucrose, and was then centrifuged at 163 000 g for 3 h at 4°C using the same rotor. Finally, 450 μl fractions were collected and sucrose concentration was measured. Fractions were analyzed by western blot. To localize COPT5–GFP in yeast, transformed cells were grown on a selective medium to the early exponential phase. Images were acquired with an Axioskop 2 fluorescence microscope (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). For yeast cells, the FM4-64 dye (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) was added at a concentration of 15 μm and cells were incubated at 30°C for 10 min before analysing. In the case of Arabidopsis plants, FM4-64 was added at 4 μm and plants were incubated for 1 h. For the localization of COPT5–GFP in plant cells, Arabidopsis protoplasts were isolated from the fresh leaf tissue of the 3-week-old plants grown on soil, and were transformed as previously described (CITATION). Images were obtained with a Leica fluorescence confocal microscope TCS SP vertical (DM-R) model equipped with an argon ion excitation laser system (458 and 488 nm) and a ×60 objective lens (http://www.leica.com). The fluorescence signals were detected at 530 nm for GFP and 660 nm for chlorophyll, and images were analyzed with the Leica Confocal Software (LCS). Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured at room temperature using a portable pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany, model PAM 2000, http://www.walz.com). The minimal fluorescence yield of dark-adapted samples with all the photosystem II (PSII) reaction centers open (Fo) was determined by measuring modulated light, which was sufficiently low (<0.1 μmol m−2 sec−1) to not induce any significant variable fluorescence. The maximal fluorescence yield of the dark-adapted samples with all the PSII centers closed (Fm) was determined by 0.8 sec saturating pulses of 3900 μmol quanta m−2 sec−1. Potential quantum yield values (Fv/Fm, where Fv is the variable fluorescence of the dark-adapted samples defined as Fm − Fo) were determined after a leaf adaptation period of 15 min in the dark. Leaves were then continuously illuminated with white actinic light at a photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) of 120 μmol quanta m−2 sec−1. The fluorescence parameters determined in both the light- and dark-adapted leaves allowed the calculation of: (1) the quantum yield of photochemical energy conversion in PSII [ΦPSII = 1 − (Fs/Fm′)]; (2) the quantum yield of non-regulated non-photochemical energy loss in PSII (ΦNO = Fs/Fm); (3) the yield of regulated non-photochemical energy loss in PSII (ΦNPQ = (Fs/Fm′) − (Fs/Fm); and (4) the redox status of quinone A (QA) acceptor of PSII estimated with the measure of the photochemical quenching coefficient qP = (Fm′ − Fs)/(Fm′ − Fo′); where Fo′ is the minimal fluorescence yield of the light-adapted leaves with all the PSII centers open, Fm′ is the maximal fluorescence yield of the light-adapted leaves with all the PSII centers closed, and Fs is the steady-state fluorescence (CITATION). The 15-min value of each kinetic was considered, and the mean of at least three experiments and standard deviation are represented. For Arabidopsis DNA preparations, Eppendorf Perfectprep kits (http://www.eppendorf.com) were used and the manufacturer’s recommendations were followed. Total Arabidopsis RNA was extracted with Trizol Reagent and RT-PCR was performed with SSII (Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION). Cell wall lignification was determined by fluoroglucinol staining as previously described (CITATION). The chlorophyll content of the Arabidopsis seedlings was determined by the tricolorimetric method (CITATION). Endogenous Cu levels were determined by atomic absorption as previously described (CITATION). The GUS histochemical staining was performed as described elsewhere (CITATION). Chloroplasts were isolated as formerly described (CITATION).
