!~ABS~! We have identified two endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated Arabidopsis proteins, KMS1 and KMS2, which are conserved among most species. Fluorescent protein fusions of KMS1 localised to the ER in plant cells, and over-expression induced the formation of a membrane structure, identified as ER whorls by electron microscopy. Hydrophobicity analysis suggested that KMS1 and KMS2 are integral membrane proteins bearing six transmembrane domains. Membrane protein topology was assessed by a redox-based topology assay (ReTA) with redox-sensitive GFP and confirmed by a protease protection assay. A major loop domain between transmembrane domains 2 and 3, plus the N- and C-termini were found on the cytosolic side of the ER. A C-terminal di(tri)-lysine motif is involved in retrieval of KMS1 and deletion led to a reduction of the GFP–KMS1 signal in the ER. Over-expression of KMS1/KMS2 truncations perturbed ER and Golgi morphology and similar effects were also seen when KMS1/KMS2 were knocked-down by RNA interference. Microscopy and biochemical experiments suggested that expression of KMS1/KMS2 truncations inhibited ER to Golgi protein transport.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis has two homologues of KMS (KMS1, At4g14950 and KMS2, At1g05360; Figure 1b). The two proteins are very similar (72% identity, 83% similarity), and have the same predicted membrane topology. Hydrophobicity prediction (ARAMEMNON; CITATION) suggests that KMS1/KMS2 have six transmembrane (TM) domains and this feature is conserved among most species. A SNARE-associated domain (Tlg2-associated domain, analysed by NCBI) was found in the protein and a major cytoplasmic loop region (125 amino acids in size) resides between TM2 and TM3. A conserved peptide sequence between Arabidopsis and Drosophila was found within the loop region (Figure 1c). KMS1 was fused to yellow or green fluorescent protein (YFP or GFP) on its N- and C-termini and localized to a tubular/cisternal network (Figure 2a) which co-localized with YFP–HDEL, confirming it to be an ER protein. Over-expression of KMS1 induced bright spherical membrane structures (Figure 2b, arrow), which on reduction of amplitude and gain settings were observed to be small vacuole-like structures (Figure 2b, inset) with diameters from 1 μm up to 5 μm. Similar results were described by CITATION for the rat homologue. These membrane structures were also found in stable Arabidopsis expressing YFP–KMS1 (Figure S1 in Supporting Information). Electron microscopy (EM) revealed that these spherical membrane structures were most likely derived from whorls of ER membrane enclosing cytoplasm (Figure 2d). These structures were motile and movement was inhibited on treatment with latrunculin B to depolymerise the actin cytoskeleton, but their morphology appeared unaffected by the secretory inhibitor Brefeldin A (BFA; data not shown). [[FIGURE]] When KMS1–GFP was co-expressed with Sar1pGTP–YFP, an ERES marker (CITATION), the Sar1GTP–YFP labelled punctate structures were sometimes found inside the membrane whorls (Figure 2c, arrow). These findings were confirmed by EM where Golgi bodies (G) were found both in and outside the ER whorls (Figure 2d). When YFP–KMS1 was co-expressed with ST–CFP [a Golgi marker comprising the signal anchor sequence of a rat sialyl transferase (ST) spliced to cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)], the ST fluorescence was located to the membrane of the whorls as well as Golgi bodies (Figure 2e, bleed-through control inset). The movement and morphology of the ST-labelled Golgi appeared normal and the over-expression of tagged KMS1 had no other visible effect on the early secretory pathway. KMS2–GFP was also located on the ER. Over-expression did not induce ER whorl formation and had no visible effect on the ER/Golgi relationship at the confocal microscope level (Figure 2f). However, KMS1 and KMS2 expression induced cisternal ER formation (Figure 2b,f). A similar effect was described previously when GFP–calnexin (the transmembrane domain of Arabidopsis calnexin fused to GFP) was over-expressed (CITATION). A redox-sensitive green fluorescent protein (roGFP2), which has different excitation peaks according to the local glutathione redox potential (EGSH) in different subcellular compartments, was used to determine the membrane topology of KMS1. The reduced form of roGFP2 predominantly excites at 488 nm, while the oxidized form excites more efficiently at 405 nm (CITATION; CITATION). Due to the difference in the EGSH across the ER membrane, roGFP2 can be used as a sensor for ER protein topology. KMS1 constructs with roGFP2 attached to either the N- or C-termini were made and transiently expressed in tobacco. Free cytosolic roGFP2 and roGFP2–HDEL were used as the cytosol and ER lumen controls, respectively. Ratiometric analysis of the 405/488 nm images shows a low fluorescence ratio of 0.279 ± 0.05 for cytosolic roGFP2 indicating a reducing environment (Figure 3a). In contrast, a high ratio of 1.94 ± 0.04 indicated that the roGFP2–HDEL was in an oxidising environment (the ER lumen; Figure 3b). Both roGFP2–KMS1 and KMS1–roGFP2 were excited more efficiently at 488 nm than at 405 nm (Figure 3c,d), and the resulting 405/488 nm fluorescence ratio was 0.33 and 0.15, respectively. This was similar to the pattern of cytosolic roGFP2. Therefore, both N and C termini of KMS1 are cytosolic. In addition, a KMS1 truncation without TM1 and TM2 was made and roGFP2 was fused to the N-terminus of TM3 within the KMS1. Although the over-expression of KMS1 truncations without the loop domain disturbs the ER structure (discussed later), the ratiometric analysis indicated that the N terminus of TM3, known as the Loop Domain was also cytosolic (Figure 3e). [[FIGURE]] As a further control, H2O2 was applied to tobacco leaves expressing roGFP2 fusions. The cytosolic roGFP2 oxidised upon H2O2 treatment, with a resultant excitation peak shift to 405 nm (Figure S2). In parallel, protein topology was confirmed using a protease protection assay (Figure 3f). The ER microsomes were prepared from tobacco leaves over-expressing the N- or C-terminal GFP-tagged KMS1. In the presence of proteinase K (PK), luminal GFP will be protected by the ER membrane from cleavage, and GFP will only be digested if exposed to the cytosol. As a negative control we used GFP–calnexin, with the GFP facing the ER lumen (CITATION), and calnexin–PAGFP (photo-activatable GFP) with the PAGFP on the cytosolic face of the ER was used as a positive control (CITATION). The digestion products were analyzed by western blotting with an anti-GFP antibody. The PK treatment resulted in complete loss of the calnexin–PAGFP band, a result consistent with the known topology of the calnexin construct. The band of GFP–calnexin ran faster after proteinase treatment, as predicted, because the cytosolic tail of calnexin is digested, leaving the TM and fused luminal GFP intact. After PK treatment, KMS1 with N- or C-terminal GFP fusions was not detectable on the blot, which again indicated that the N- and C-termini of KMS1 are cytoplasmic (Figure 3f). C-terminal di-lysine motifs (KK) are believed to play a role in ER retrieval by interacting with COPI proteins. Type-I ER membrane proteins lacking this motif are often unable to localize correctly and may be secreted (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The KMS1 protein minus the C-terminal 15 amino acids including the tri-lysine (KKK) motif was generated and fused to GFP to examine the role of this motif in ER retention (Figure 4a). The confocal results show that the GFP–KMS1△C15 labelled ER demonstrates a much weaker fluorescence than the full-length GFP–KMS1 when same Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration OD and confocal settings were applied (Figure 4b,c). [[FIGURE]] Under the same conditions, the average fluorescence intensity was measured as 21.56 ± 1.46 (arbitrary units) for GFP–KMS1, in contrast to an intensity of 10.13 ± 1.19 for GFP–KMS1△C15 (Figure 4h). A KMS1 truncation minus the C-terminal amino acids, but retaining the KKK motif (designated GFP–KMS1△C12) was also made and fused to GFP. Expression of this construct showed the average fluorescence intensity to be high at 25.9 ± 1.27 (Figure 4d,h). These results suggested that the ER retention of KMS1 lacking the C-terminal KKK motif is less effective than the full-length protein, and the post-KKK C-terminal peptide was not involved in this process. The ER fluorescence of GFP–KMS1△C15 was enhanced after 8 h BFA incubation to 15.07 ± 0.89 (Figure 4e,h), indicating that the protein is not intrinsically unstable and can built up in the ER. The effect of BFA on other constructs was minor (Figure 4f–h). To study the function of KMS1 and its influence on the secretory pathway, various KMS1 truncation mutants were made and expressed as dominant negatives. As the functional domains of KMS1 are unclear, two versions of the truncated protein were constructed. A predicted SNARE-protein associated domain was found between amino acids 197 and 296 in KMS1 (Figure 1a). N-terminal GFP or YFP fusions of KMS1 lacking this domain (KMS1△SNARE) were made and transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. When YFP–KMS1△SNARE was co-expressed with GFP–calnexin, both protein fusions labelled the same structure. However, the ER appeared aggregated (Figure 5a). After longer co-expression, the ER became fragmented (Figure 5b) and deformed into small globular structures. At the ultrastructural level, spherical membrane structures were abundant (Figure 6a,b), which correspond to the deformed ER or Golgi membrane fragments seen by confocal microscopy. Other ER structures were identified by EM, such as a swollen membrane, presumably Golgi-derived surrounded by several layers of ER-like membrane (Figure 6d). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In cells expressing GFP–KMS1△SNARE and ST–mRFP, Golgi membranes were redistributed into the ER aggregates and co-located with GFP–KMS1△SNARE (Figure 5c, ST–mRFP control inset). The mobility of the remaining Golgi bodies was greatly reduced when KMS1△SNARE truncations were expressed because Golgi bodies trapped in the ER clumps were not free to move (Figure 5c, arrow). Golgi movement was analysed in control and KMS1△SNARE-expressing leaves and expressed as cumulative distribution frequency plots (CDF) which give an accurate descriptor of organelle movement (see CITATION). As can be seen in Figure 5(d–f), although Golgi body velocity is not significantly altered, both displacement and meandering index (displacement over velocity) show a significant reduction under mutant expression (P < 0.001, Kolmogorov–Smirnov test). Golgi morphology in KMS1 mutant-expressing cells differed from wild-type Golgi stacks by EM, as their stacks appeared to be more vesicular with tubules often extending from the periphery of cisternae (Figure 6c, arrowhead). Golgi or trans-Golgi network remnant-like structures were also found in the presence of KMS1△SNARE (Figure 6b, arrowhead). A peptide sequence (amino acids 179–227) is highly conserved between Arabidopsis KMS1 and its Drosophila homologue (conserved domain, CD, Figure 1a), and overlaps with the predicted SNARE-associated domain at the cytoplasmic loop region. As most functional domains across different organisms share similar sequences, we postulated that this conserved sequence may contain functional domains. Unlike KMS1△SNARE, which is missing TMD3, KMS1△CD has a similar membrane topology to the full-length protein, with six TMDs and part of the cytoplasmic loop region (48 amino acids shorter). The truncation was fused to GFP and transiently expressed in tobacco leaves. YFP–KMS1△CD over-expression produced a similar effect to YFP–KMS1△SNARE, such as ER membrane aggregation (Figure 7a) and deformation (Figure 7b,c). Different sized swollen membrane structures were found by EM in tobacco expressing KMS1△CD (Figure 7d,e). Such an effect is able to be partially rescued by over-expressing full-length KMS1 (Figure S3). Golgi markers were redistributed to the perturbed ER (Figure 8a, ST–mRFP control inset). Considering the size and the location of the loop region in the native protein, it is proposed that this region or at least a part of the region of the native KMS1 protein contains an active domain with unknown function. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The ST–mRFP-labelled Golgi tended to relocate to the ER when co-expressed with either KMS1 truncation (Figures 5c and 8a). However, the result was slightly different when the Golgin mRFP–AtCASP was used as the Golgi marker. In the presence of GFP–KMS1△CD, mRFP–AtCASP did not redistribute to the ER, but formed large aggregates or mini Golgi bodies (perhaps representing the Golgi remnants; Figure 8b). At the ultrastructural level, Golgi fragments were abundant (Figure 8d,e) and the size of Golgi bodies was reduced by about half to 500 nm. Golgi fragments also appeared intermingled with ER in the presence of the KMS1 mutant (Figure 8e). To test that the different results of ST and AtCASP were not due to expression levels of KMS1 truncations, untagged KMS1△CD was expressed alongside ST–GFP and mRFP–AtCASP. Because of the significant change of ER and Golgi morphology, it was easy to distinguish cells expressing KMS1△CD truncations. In cells expressing KMS1△CD, ST–GFP and CASP–mRFP, ST–GFP was relocated to ER membrane aggregates. mRFP–AtCASP was not found in any of these ER aggregates, but labelled what were assumed to be Golgi remnants (Figure 8c). KMS2 without the conserved domain was made and fused to YFP at its C-terminus. Unlike the full-length protein which distributes evenly over the ER network (Figure 2f), the KMS2△CD–YFP truncation localised to small punctate structures and its over-expression dramatically changed the ER morphology (Figure 9a). The ER became swollen or fragmented into globular structures, similar to the KMS1 truncation (Figures 5c and 7c), but in this case these structures were interlinked by ER tubules (although distorted) containing GFP–HDEL. When KMS2△CD–YFP was co-expressed with GFP–calnexin, most of the large punctate structures co-localised with calnexin, which indicated they were a part of the ER membrane (Figure 9b). However, smaller punctae did not co-localise with calnexin (Figure 9b, arrowhead). ST–CFP did not label the ER when expressed alone (Figure 9c, inset a); however, its signal accumulated in the ER when co-expressed with KMS2△CD–YFP (Figure 9c). The remaining Golgi bodies appeared normal by confocal microscopy, except for occasional co-localization with the KMS2△CD–YFP punctae (Figure 9c, inset b). [[FIGURE]] Tobacco leaves appeared senescent 3 days after infiltration of the KMS1 mutants; however, such an effect was not exhibited by KMS2 mutant over-expression. The redistribution of ST–mRFP to the ER suggested that KMS1/KMS2 truncations block protein secretion from the ER. In order to confirm this result, other approaches were taken. The secretory marker SecGFP weakly labels the ER, with the fluorescence being enhanced when secretion is blocked (CITATION). When SecGFP was co-expressed with KMS1 or KMS2 mutants, its fluorescence (14.35 ± 1.21 and 14.14 ± 1.28, respectively, arbitrary units) accumulated in the ER (Figure 10a,b,d) indicating a secretion blockage. The over-expression of the full-length KMS1 did not exhibit such strong inhibition on secGFP (6.27 ± 0.65; Figure 10d). In comparison, the fluorescence intensity of secGFP control is lower (1.10 ± 0.22; Figure 10c,d). A similar effect was also seen with a pulse-chase assay using tobacco protoplasts expressing KMS1/KMS2 truncations alongside a secretory version of phaseolin (Figure S5A–C). [[FIGURE]] The influence of the KMS1 truncation on secretion was further studied using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). Golgi bodies in tobacco leaf cells co-expressing GFP–KMS1△CD with ST–mRFP, as well as ST–mRFP alone, were bleached. Samples were treated with latrunculin B to depolymerise actin. Earlier studies showed that membrane protein transport from the ER to Golgi does not require the actin cytoskeleton (CITATION). In the presence of GFP–KMS1△CD, the maximum fluorescence recovery (MFR) of ST–mRFP reached 46.8% after bleaching, which was significantly reduced compared with ST–mRFP single expression (MFR = 79.7%). The initial rate of fluorescence recovery was similar, but the recovery rate of ST–mRFP in GFP–KMS1△CD-expressing cells slowed after 100 sec (Figure 10b). A hairpin RNA (from AGRIKOLA; CITATION) construct of KMS1 was stably transformed into Arabidopsis expressing ER and Golgi markers (CITATION) and positive Arabidopsis lines were confirmed by RT-PCR (Figure S5C,F). The specificity of the RNAi construct was confirmed by RT-PCR using both KMS1 and KMS2 primers with total cDNA from either KMS1 or KMS2 RNAi lines (Figure S5G). The mRNA level of KMS1 remained the same in both wild-type Arabidopsis and KMS2 RNAi lines (the same as KMS2). The structure of the ER and Golgi was studied by confocal microscopy. In wild-type Arabidopsis, Golgi bodies moved over the cortical tubular ER network (Figure S6). However, when native Arabidopsis KMS1 expression was knocked-down, the ER morphology changed dramatically (Figures 11a,b and S5A). Golgi morphology also appeared to be affected, forming Golgi membrane aggregates (Figure 11a, arrow) and fragments (Figure 11b, arrow). Tubule-like structures associated with single Golgi bodies or Golgi aggregates were also seen (Figure 11b, arrowhead). In parallel, RNAi knock-down of KMS2 was performed. The morphology of the ER was less perturbed; however, many constrictions were seen on the ER tubules and the structure of the ER tubular network was different from the wild type (Figures 11c and S5D). However, Golgi body structure appeared to be unaffected (Figure 11b). [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis KMS1 RNAi line exhibited growth defects with shorter roots than the wild type (Figure S5B). Such effects were not significant in Arabidopsis KMS2 RNAi lines (Figure S5E).
!~MM~! All primers used are listed in Table S1. Full-length KMS1 was amplified from cDNA (U67672, NASC) with primers KMS1–XbaI-F and KMS1–SalI-R; KMS1–BamH1-F and KMS1–SacI-R. Primers containing XbaI/SaII restriction sites were used for C-terminal fluorescent protein fusions (KMS1–GFP), whereas BamHI/SacI sites containing primers were used for N-terminal fusions (GFP/YFP–KMS1). The PCR fragments were cloned in to the binary vector pVKH18En6 by replacing the original insert (CITATION; CITATION). roGFP2–KMS1 was generated by replacing the GFP at the N-terminus of KMS1 using primers roGFP–XbaI-F and roGFP–BamH1-R. To make C terminal roGFP2 fusions, KMS1 was amplified using primers KMS1–Gat-F and KMS1–Gat-R. Using the manufacturer’s instructions for Gateway® cloning (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/), PCR products were cloned into pDONR207 by a BP reaction and then transferred to pSSO1 (CITATION) by LR reaction. KMS1/KMS2 truncations were generated using over-lap PCR (CITATION) and the resulting fragments were cloned into pVKH18En6 with N- or C-terminal fluorescent protein fusions. The internal primers for different KMS1 truncations were used together with the KMS1–BamHI-F or KMS1–SacI-R. KMS1△CD was made using the internal primer △CD-F and △CD-R; KMS1△SNARE was made using △SNARE-F and △SNARE-R. KMS1△C15 was generated using primers KMS1–BamHI-F and KMS1△K–SacI-R. KMS1△C12 was generated using primers KMS1–BamHI-F and KMS1+K–SacI-R. Similarly, the KMS2 conserved domain deletion was generated with KMS2–XbaI-F, KMS2–SalI-R, KMS2△CD-F and KMS2△CD-R. For tobacco protoplast transfection, the GFP–KMS1△CD and KMS2△CD–YFP were subcloned into pUC19 (XbaI/SacI site) and pGreen (HindII/EcoRI site) plasmids, respectively. All plasmids were sequenced by Geneservice (Oxford University). KMS2 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR (Invitrogen) with primers KMS2–XbaI-F and KMS2–SalI-R (Table S1). The fragment was cloned into pVKH18En6 containing a C-terminal GFP as described above. For RNAi Arabidopsis lines, total RNA was extracted from 7-day-old T1 seedlings, and RT-PCR was performed using respective primers. A Gateway® entry clone of a KMS1-specific hairpin RNA construct was ordered from AGRIKOLA (CITATION). The construct was cloned into the binary vector pHellsgates12 (CITATION) by LR reaction. The RNA hairpin was confirmed by PCR with primers Forward 1 and Reverse 1; Forward 2 and Reverse 2 (Table S1). For KMS2 RNAi, the hairpin construct was ordered from AGRIKOLA directly as the expression clone (pAgrikola). The KMS1/KMS2 hairpin RNA constructs were transformed into a stable Arabidopsis line expressing GFP–HDEL and ST–mRFP (CITATION) by floral dipping (CITATION). KMS1 RNAi-transformed plants were selected on 1/2 MS medium (0.8% agar) containing kanamycin (50 mg/L). The KMS2 RNAi knock-down was performed in the same way, but selected on 1/2 MS medium (0.8% agar) containing BASTA (15 mg/L). Positive plants were confirmed using PCR. Nicotiana tabacum leaves were infiltrated as described previously (CITATION). Confocal imaging was performed using a Zeiss LSM510 Meta laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/) with 63×/40× oil immersion objectives. The GFP samples were excited using an argon ion laser at 488 nm with a 505–530 nm bandpass filter. For mRFP constructs a 543 nm helium laser and 560–615 nm bandpass filter were used. Pin holes were set for optical sections of between 1 and 2 μm. For dual imaging, samples were excited with both 488/543 nm lasers in multi-track mode with line switching. The GFP and YFP images were taken 458 and 514 nm laser lines in multi-track mode with line switching. Images were edited using the LSM 510 Image Browser and Photoshop (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com/). Sixteen individual images were taken using the 40× objective for analysing the fluorescence intensity of SecGFP in the secretory experiment and GFP–KMS1△C15. The absolute value was measured using ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Golgi movement was captured by confocal microscopy and analysed with Volocity 3 software (Perkin-Elmer, http://www.perkinelmer.com/) as described in CITATION. Tobacco leaves were studied 3 days after infiltration and analysed using a Zeiss LSM510 Meta confocal microscope with a 63× oil immersion objective. Full output of the 488 nm laser line was used for photobleaching. Low laser intensities (20% 543 nm for mRFP, 3% 488 nm for GFP) were used for data collection. Ten reference scans were taken pre-bleaching and 100 scans post-bleaching at 3-sec intervals. Samples were mounted in 1% low melting agar (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/), and coverslips were sealed with VALAP (Vaseline:lanolin:paraffin, 1:1:1). For each construct, 15 different Golgi were studied and data were collected using Zeiss software. Raw data of fluorescent recovery were converted into a percentage scale with analysis and curve fitting carried out using Excel and Prism5 (CITATION). Best-fit curves were obtained from each set of data and half time of recovery (T1/2); maximum fluorescence of recovery was calculated. Both chemical fixation and high-pressure freezing (HPF) with freeze-substitution were performed according to CITATION. Ultrathin (70 nm) sections were cut on a RMC PowerTome ultramicrotome (http://www.rmcproducts.com/), stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and observed with a JEOL 200EXII transmission electron microscope (http://www.jeol.com/). Ratiometric imaging of roGFP2 was performed using a Zeiss LSM510 Meta confocal microscope according to CITATION. As ratiometric analysis requires the images from both channels to be in register, lantrunclin B (25 μm, 20 min) was used to reduce the ER membrane dynamics. As roGFP2 is reduced in the cytosol and oxidized in the lumen of the ER (CITATION), the calculated ratio of roGFP–HDEL and free cytoplasmic roGFP was used to calibrate the scale. For converting the cytosolic roGFP2 to its oxidised form, H2O2 (10 mm) was infiltrated into the tobacco leaves before imaging. For FRAP experiments, leaf segments were incubated in 25 μm latrunculin B for 40 min to depolymerise actin filaments. For ratiometric imaging, the incubation time was reduced to 10 min to avoid further stress. For BFA treatment, leaf samples were incubated in 10 μg/ml BFA solution for different time intervals before imaging. Three days after infiltration, 0.1 g of leaf tissue was cut out and homogenized in 12% cold sucrose buffer [1 m 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-HCl, pH 7.6, 1 m KCl, 0.5 m EDTA, 12% (w/w) sucrose, with Complete Protease Inhibitor (Roche, http://www.roche.com/)]. The subsequent product was centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 5 min at 4°C. The supernatant was then centrifuged at 20 000 g for 20 min at 4°C in a Beckman TLA-100 ultra-centrifuge (http://www.beckmancoulter.com/). The resulting supernatant was transferred to an ultracentrifuge tube containing 17% sucrose solution and spun at 100 000 g for 60 min at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended in 12% sucrose buffer (1 m TRIS–HCl, pH 7.6, 1 m KCl, 0.5 m EDTA, 12% (w/w) sucrose). The microsome suspension was incubated at 25°C for 25 min with 0.4 mg/ml proteinase K (New England Biolabs, http://www.neb.com/). The product was run on 11% SDS-PAGE. Western blotting was performed with a GFP rabbit antibody (1:3000; Abcam, http://www.abcam.com/) at 4°C overnight and detected with Cy5 conjugated goat-anti-rabbit antibody (1:3000; Jackson ImmunoResearch Inc., http://www.jacksonimmuno.com/). The blot was scanned using a Typhoon 8610 (Molecular Dynamics Inc., http://www.gelifesciences.com) at 650 nm. The tobacco protoplast transfection, phaseolin pulse-chase assay and immunoprecipitation were performed exactly as described previously (CITATION).
