!~ABS~! Behaviour of the NE (nuclear envelope) during open mitosis has been explored extensively in metazoans, but lack of native markers has limited similar investigations in plants. In the present study, carried out using living synchronized tobacco BY-2 suspension cultures, the non-functional NE marker LBR (lamin B receptor)–GFP (green fluorescent protein) and two native, functional NE proteins, AtSUN1 [Arapidopsis thaliana SUN (Sad1/UNC84) 1] and AtSUN2, we provide evidence that the ER (endoplasmic reticulum)-retention theory for NE membranes is applicable in plants. We also observe two apparently unique plant features: location of the NE-membrane components in close proximity to chromatin throughout division, and spatially distinct reformation of the NE commencing at the chromatin surface facing the spindle poles and concluding at the surface facing the cell plate. Mobility of the proteins was investigated in the interphase NE, during NE breakdown and reformation, in the spindle membranes and the cell plate. A role for AtSUN2 in nuclear envelope breakdown is suggested.
!~RES~! To follow the dynamics of the SUN domain proteins and the NE in living dividing cells, stable transformed BY-2 cell lines were created that co-expressed either histone H2B fused to the fluorescent protein CFP (H2B–CFP) and AtSUN1–YFP, or H2B–CFP and AtSUN2–YFP. Histone H2B–CFP is an A. thaliana chromatin marker [CITATION] and was found to localize to the nucleoplasm labelling chromatin in BY-2 cells (Figures 1 and 2, and Supplementary Movies S1–S3 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/435/bj4350661add.htm). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As previously reported, AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP localize to the NE in interphase with low levels of fluorescent protein also being present in the ER in some cells (Figure 1) [CITATION]. As the cells entered mitosis, changes in the distribution of the two SUN domain proteins were already noticeable. In prophase, as condensing chromatin was observed, AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP fluorescence at the NE began to decrease, and the fusion proteins to accumulate at opposing sides of the NE, presumably where the spindle poles were forming, as well as in the ER (Figure 1 and Supplementary Movie S3). The SUN-labelled NE started to lose its shape (Supplementary Movie S3) and in prometaphase a structured NE was no longer discernible (Figure 1 and Supplementary Movies S1–S3). Instead, the two SUN domain proteins were localized in mitotic ER membranes and accumulated in membranes at the spindle (spindle membranes). In particular, AtSUN1–YFP was observed to be present in tubules and also puncta that surrounded condensing chromatin, and were in close proximity to it (Figure 1 and Supplementary Movie S2). AtSUN2–YFP was not observed in puncta, but also surrounded chromatin, although AtSUN2–YFP fluorescence appeared diffuse (Figure 1 and Supplementary Movie S3). As condensed chromosomes aligned in the division zone in metaphase, both SUN proteins accumulated in spindle membranes close to the spindle poles (Figure 1, and Supplementary Movies S1 and S3). However, some AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP fluorescence was observed in tubules stretching through the division zone with tubule tips appearing in close proximity to the chromosomes (Figure 1). In some cells expressing AtSUN1–YFP, the fusion protein was also found in puncta associated with tubules and spindle membranes similar to the prometaphase puncta. As the sister chromatids became separated and migrated to the spindle poles in anaphase, both AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP were observed accumulating on decondensing chromatin facing the spindle poles (Figure 1, and Supplementary Movies S1 and S3). Some tubules were also seen traversing the division zone, and in the transition to telophase both SUN fusion proteins appeared in the forming cell plate (Figure 1, and Supplementary Movies S1 and S3). In telophase the NE containing AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP reformed around decondensing chromatin, with the SUN proteins first present on the side of the chromatin facing the spindle poles, then enveloping the sides of the chromatin and lastly surrounding the chromatin facing the growing cell plate (Figure 1 and Supplementary Movie S1). In cytokinesis both AtSUN1–YFP and AtSUN2–YFP were present in the expanding NE and in the cell plate and phragmoplast. Previously, we have reported that deleting the N-terminus or coiled-coil domain from SUN domain proteins affects their mobile behaviour in the interphase NE caused by disruption of binding interactions [CITATION]. In the present study we examined the effect of these mutations on the distribution of SUN domain proteins in mitotic division. For this we generated stable transformed BY-2 cell lines co-expressing either H2B–CFP and YFP–AtSUN1ΔN, where the N-terminus is deleted, or H2B–CFP and YFP–AtSUN1ΔCC, where the coiled-coil domain is deleted. A third cell line was generated that co-expressed H2B–CFP and YFP–AtSUN2. Although this fusion protein is full-length and not mutated, the fusion of YFP to the N-terminus affects the functionality of the protein altering its mobility and interactions [CITATION]. In the two AtSUN1 mutant cell lines, no general effect on the localization of the SUN proteins was observed in comparison with the non-mutated AtSUN1–YFP cell line (Supplementary Figure S1 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/435/bj4350661add.htm). However, no puncta were observed in prometaphase and metaphase of YFP–AtSUN1ΔN- and YFP–AtSUN1ΔCC-expressing cells (Supplementary Figure S1). Interestingly, the N-terminal YFP fusion affected the NE localization of AtSUN2 in interphase BY-2 cells, as only weak and indistinct NE labelling was observed in YFP–AtSUN2-expressing cells (Figure 2). In prophase, however, the fusion protein aggregated specifically at the NE (Figure 2, asterisk). The localization of YFP–AtSUN2 in the remaining phases of the division was similar to that of AtSUN2–YFP (Supplementary Figure S2 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/435/bj4350661add.htm). Examining the mobility of proteins in the membrane gives information on the binding interactions of these proteins. Slow mobility indicates strong, anchoring binding interactions, whereas high mobility suggests that the protein is unbound, moving unhindered. FRAP was used to quantify the mobile fraction and half-time of AtSUN1–YFP, AtSUN2–YFP and LBR–GFP in the interphase NE (Figures 3A and 3B) and mitotic membranes (Figures 3C and 3D, and Supplementary Figure S3 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/435/bj4350661add.htm) of BY-2 cells (Tables 1 and 2, and Supplementary Table S1 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/435/bj4350661add.htm). The mobile fraction denotes the percentage of fusion protein found moving, and the half-time is an indicator of how fast this movement is. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] In the 3-day-old interphase NE, LBR–GFP was very mobile with a mobile fraction of 85.98±8.19% and a half-time of 1.31±0.72 s (Figure 3B and Supplementary Table S1). The mobile fraction and half-time of LBR–GFP remained unchanged during NEBD in spindle membranes, during NE reformation and in the cell plate, indicating that LBR–GFP remains unbound and freely mobile in these membrane systems (Supplementary Table S1 and Supplementary Figure S3). The AtSUN1–YFP had a mobile fraction of 72.66±5.89% and a half-time of 9.83±1.75 s in the interphase NE, indicating that over 70% of the fusion protein was mobile and less than 30% was immobilized in the membrane (Figure 3B and Table 1). The mobile fraction of AtSUN1–YFP appeared to remain similar during mitosis, as similar mobile fractions were observed for the protein in the metaphase spindle membrane and the reforming NE. In the cell plate, however, the mobile fraction of AtSUN1–YFP was reduced in comparison with the interphase NE indicating that less of the protein was mobile (Figure 3B and Table 1). A similar half-time as in the interphase NE was observed in the reforming NE and the cell plate. However, in the metaphase spindle membranes AtSUN1–YFP appeared to move faster as the half-time was significantly decreased (5.10±0.83 s, P<0.001). AtSUN2–YFP had a mobile fraction of 37.82±8.39% and a half-time of 6.02±1.62 s in the interphase NE, indicating that approximately 37% of the fusion protein population was mobile and approximately 63% was immobile in the membrane (Figure 3B and Table 2). During mitosis, the mobile behaviour of AtSUN2–YFP was found to vary significantly. During NEBD, the mobile fraction remained low (31.79±15.41%), similar to that of the interphase NE, but it showed a higher rate of movement, as indicated by a lower half-time of 3.44±2.18 s (Table 2). This suggests that while AtSUN2–YFP retains its interphase interactions during prophase NEBD, changes occur as ER retention commences. In metaphase spindle membranes, AtSUN2–YFP had almost twice the mobile fraction (63.46±7.97%) of AtSUN2–YFP in interphase and during NEBD (Table 2). It also had a shorter half-time, indicating that it is much more mobile in metaphase spindle membranes, suggesting that it no longer is part of binding interactions at the interphase NE and during NEBD. As most of the spindle membranes are no longer surrounding chromatin it may be hypothesized that the interphase/prophase interactions of AtSUN2–YFP include binding of chromatin or other nuclear components. This is reinforced by the finding that the mobile fraction of AtSUN2–YFP decreased in the reforming NE, where it was similar to that of interphase and NEBD (Figure 3D and Table 2). The halftime of AtSUN2–YFP in the telophase-reforming NE was higher than during NEBD and similar to that in interphase. In the cell plate, AtSUN2–YFP had a higher mobile fraction (53.57±10.29%; Table 2) indicating fewer or different interactions than found at the NE. However, as still almost half of the protein is immobilized in the cell plate, this may suggest that it is also associated in protein complexes there and may fulfil a function.
!~MM~! The construction of all AtSUN1- and AtSUN2-based fluorescent protein fusion constructs as well as LBR–GFP has been published previously [CITATION,CITATION]. The pBIB::H2B-YFP [CITATION] was used as a template to make H2B–CFP (cyan fluorescent protein). Forward primer FH2B (5′-ATGGCGAAGGCAGATAAGAAACC-3′) and reverse primer RH2B (5′-AGAACTCGTAAACTTCGTAACCG-3′) were used to amplify the H2B-coding sequence, and primers FH2BGW (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCCCGCCAATGGCGAAGGCAGATAAGAAACC-3′) and RH2BGW (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCAGAACTCGTAAACTTCGTAACCG-3′) were used to add Gateway® flanking recombination sequences. Using Gateway®-cloning technology, the H2B-coding sequence was first inserted into the entry vector pDONR207 and then moved to the binary expression vector pK7CWG2 to make pK7CWG2::H2B (H2B–CFP). The vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101::pMP90 using heat-shock transformation [CITATION]. Co-cultivation adapted from previously published protocols [CITATION] was used to generate stable transformed BY-2 cell lines. Agrobacteria carrying either pCambia1300::AtSUN1–YFP, pCambia1300::AtSUN2–YFP, pCambia1300::YFP–AtSUN1ΔN, pCambia1300::YFP–AtSUN1ΔCC, pCambia1300::YFP–AtSUN2, pVKH18En6::LBR–GFP or pK7CWG2::H2B were used to stably transform BY-2 cells. Wild-type BY-2 cells were grown at 25°C in the dark with shaking at 130 rev./min and subcultured every 7 days [CITATION]. For transformation, 3-day-old cells were used. Liquid overnight agrobacteria cultures were centrifuged at 6000 g for 5 min at 21°C and washed three times with YEB medium containing 200 μM acetosyringone. Bacteria were incubated in a final wash for 1 h before transformation. Bacteria and BY-2 cells were co-cultivated for 72 h at 25°C in the dark without shaking on solid BY-2 medium-containing plates. BY-2 cells were then washed three times with liquid BY-2 medium containing carbenicillin and timentin. Finally, cells were plated on solid BY-2 medium plates containing carbenicillin, timentin and selection antibiotics. H2B–CFP was selected with kanamycin, and the other constructs were selected with hygromycin B. Cells were incubated at 25°C in the dark without shaking for approximately 4 weeks until calli had grown. Calli were screened with a Leica MZFLIII stereomicroscope for fluorescence and selected calli were transferred to liquid BY-2 medium including selection antibiotics to establish stable expressing BY-2 suspension cell lines. Stable expressing cell lines were grown and cultured in a similar manner to wild-type cell lines [CITATION]. For double-transformed cell lines, BY-2 cells were first transformed with one construct and, once stable expressing suspension cells were established, these were used for a second transformation with the other construct. Synchrony of BY-2 cells was based on a previously published protocol [CITATION]. In total, 7 ml of 7-day-old cells were transferred to 50 ml of fresh medium and aphidicolin was added to a working concentration of 5 μg/ml. The cells were incubated for 24 h at 25°C with shaking in the dark. The aphidicolin was washed out using a sintered glass funnel. The cells were washed ten times with 50 ml of BY-2 medium and suspended in 50 ml of fresh BY-2 medium after the last wash. Cells were returned to the incubator and sampled for analysis between 4 and 11 h after. At least two independent synchrony experiments were carried out for each cell line. Cells were mounted on to glass microscope slides covered in a thin film of BY-2 medium containing 0.7% low-melting agarose and sealed with a coverslip. Confocal imaging was carried out as described previously [CITATION]. Acquisition and analysis of FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching) data was as described previously, except that no latrunculin B treatment was used [CITATION,CITATION]. Approximately 30 FRAP experiments were carried out for each data set [CITATION,CITATION]. Average values±S.D. are displayed. For movie acquisition, samples were scanned every 30 s for approximately 45–60 min. The images were converted to movie files using RAD video tools.
