!~ABS~! Brassinosteroids are important plant hormones involved in the regulation of cell elongation, division, differentiation and development. This study identifies CESTA as a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor that positively regulates brassinosteroid homeostasis.
!~RES~! We isolated cesta-D (ces-D), a dominant mutant, in a collection of activation-tagged Arabidopsis thaliana T-DNA insertional mutants. The ces-D mutant's developmental phenotypes were already visible in light-grown seedlings, since hypocotyl growth was enhanced (CITATION), and became most pronounced after plants had formed first true leaves. The name for the mutant was chosen due to the adult morphology of its rosette leaves, which had elongated petioles, displayed a proximodistal lengthening, were serrated as well as outwardly curving and epinastic (CITATION), giving them a cesta-like appearance (the cesta, Spanish for basket, is used in the Basque ball game Pelota as a throwing and catching tool). Adult ces-D plants were furthermore characterized by prolonged vegetative development of axillary shoot meristems. Secondary rosettes were formed in the axils of rosette leaves in a basal–apical direction, which resulted in a markedly increased number of rosette leaves (CITATION) and inflorescences, upon conversion from the vegetative to the reproductive phase. In contrast to wild type, ces-D mutant plants continued to grow beyond 35 days after germination (DAG), with their flowering and senescence being delayed (CITATION). Many of the phenotypic features of light-grown ces-D plants, such as increased hypocotyl elongation, long petioles, outwardly curving leaf growth and increased leaf axillary meristem activity have previously been described to be characteristic for Arabidopsis plants that either over-accumulate BRs (CITATION) or exhibit constitutive BR signalling responses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the set of phenotypes displayed by ces-D at different developmental stages indicates that BR homeostasis and/or BR responses are altered in the mutant. The ces-D phenotypes were genetically linked to the BASTA resistance locus of a single T-DNA insertion and were dominant to wild type. To define the molecular nature of the mutant phenotypes, genomic DNA flanking both the right and the left border of the T-DNA was cloned by plasmid rescue and the border regions were sequenced. This revealed that the T-DNA was inserted on chromosome I in the 5′ UTR of a putative bHLH transcription factor (locus At1g25330), 152 bp upstream of the ATG, with the 35S enhancer element facing the start codon (CITATION) and that six basepairs at the insertion site (−159 CTTAAC −152) were deleted. Semi-quantitative RT–PCR analysis showed that the expression of At1g25330 was significantly increased in the ces-D mutant as compared with wild type (CITATION), whereas the expression of two neighbouring genes (At1g25320 and At1g25340) located on either side of the T-DNA was not altered (data not shown). To determine if overexpression of At1g25330 caused the ces-D phenotypes, the cDNA of the gene was cloned into a binary vector under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter and transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0) plants. Transgenic lines overexpressing At1g25330 to high levels recapitulated the characteristic ces-D phenotypes, elongated petioles and outwardly curving leaf growth in adult plants (CITATION), confirming that overexpression of CES resulted in the ces-D mutant phenotypes. The CES gene consists of six exons, coding for a protein of 223 aa, that contains the bHLH signature domain (CITATION). bHLH transcription factors are represented by >160 members in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) and in a phylogenetic study CES, was named bHLH075 and assigned to bHLH subfamily 18 (CITATION). Its closest homologues are BEE1 and BEE3 (34 and 36% amino-acid identity, respectively), which belong to a group of BR early response genes and were previously identified as redundantly acting positive regulators of BR responses (CITATION). Thus, CES encodes a close relative of bHLH proteins implicated in BR signalling. Expression patterns of CES were investigated using a transcriptional reporter in which 1.5 kb of the CES-promoter region was fused to the β-glucuronidase gene (CESpro:GUS). CES-promoter activity was detected histochemically in plants homozygous for CESpro:GUS at different developmental stages. Reporter expression was found to be present in all organs, especially in young tissues and vascular bundles, and was developmentally regulated (CITATION). In young seedlings, GUS staining was detected in the vascular cylinder of roots, hypocotyls and cotyledons (CITATION). In dark-grown seedlings, CES expression increased later in development, becoming especially pronounced in the hook region (CITATION). In adult plants, the CESpro:GUS reporter was active in roots and hypocotyls and staining was also found in the vasculature of petioles and leaves as well as in leaf axillary meristems (CITATION). Floral organs showed strong CESpro:GUS expression specifically in the stigma (CITATION). Analysis of accessible transcriptome data (CITATION) confirmed our GUS reporter data. In summary, CES expression was predominant in vascular tissues especially during early developmental stages. This expression pattern largely overlaps with those of key BR biosynthesis genes including CPD and ROT3 (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether the ces-D-specific phenotypes correlate with altered BR levels in the mutant, we determined BR amounts by GC/MS. Light-grown ces-D plants contained decreased amounts of 3-dehydro-6-deoxoteasterone (6-Deoxo3DT), 6-deoxotyphasterol (6-DeoxoTY) and typhasterol (TY) (CITATION). In contrast, the BRs 6-deoxocastasterone (6-DeoxoCS) and castasterone (CS), which are formed late in biosynthesis, were significantly increased in ces-D. BL was below the detection limit in both ces-D and wild-type plants (CITATION). Changes in BR concentrations in ces-D suggested that the expression of genes involved in BR biosynthesis might be altered. Therefore, we analysed DWF4, CPD and ROT3 transcript levels using semi-quantitative RT–PCR and quantitative real-time PCR analysis and found that the transcript levels of all three genes were elevated in ces-D seedlings as compared with those of wild type (CITATION and CITATION). To further determine if CES function is required for the regulation of BR biosynthesis, we identified and analysed a CES loss-of-function allele. Three T-DNA insertion lines were initially attained from the SALK database (CITATION). However, semi-quantitative RT–PCRs demonstrated that only the T-DNA insertion in line S082100 interfered completely with the formation of a CES full-length transcript, indicating that this mutant is a likely null allele (CITATION). The identified ces-1 allele was subjected to an analysis of its effects on hypocotyl elongation and the expression of DWF4, CPD and ROT3, particularly also in response to external application of the BR 24-epiBL or the BR biosynthesis inhibitor Brz2001 (CITATION). Homozygous ces-1 seedlings showed significantly reduced hypocotyl length in the light, which could be rescued by exogenous application of 24-epiBL (CITATION). Adult ces-1 plants did not show any obvious BR-deficient phenotypes and measurements of BR levels in these plants did not reveal any statistically significant alterations (data not shown). However, the reduced hypocotyl elongation in ces-1 seedlings correlated with decreased transcript levels of DWF4 and ROT3 (CITATION), indicating that CES is required for maintaining BR levels balanced at an early stage of development. Moreover, and consistent with a requirement of CES as an activator of BR-biosynthetic gene expression, Brz2001-mediated induction of DWF4, CPD and ROT3 expression in ces-1 seedlings was reduced, when compared with wild type (CITATION). To summarize, phenotypes characteristic for BR over-accumulation correlated with altered BR levels and an enhanced expression of DWF4, CPD and ROT3 in ces-D plants suggestive of a role of CES as a positive regulator of BR biosynthesis. Consistently, a loss-of-function mutant of CES showed phenotypes indicative of BR deficiency as well as reduced expression of specific BR biosynthesis genes. The subtle developmental phenotypes observed in ces-1 plants suggested that CES loss-of-function might be complemented by functional homologues. Therefore, we chose a dominant repression approach, which has previously been used successfully to facilitate the analysis of functionally redundant transcription factors (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), to further analyse the effects of altered CES activity on BR responses. To this end, the EAR repression domain (CITATION) and a c-Myc epitope tag were fused to CES and expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Several independent transgenic lines expressing the c-Myc–CES–SRDX fusion protein to high levels were selected. Interestingly, all of these plants showed characteristic BR-deficient phenotypes, which were already present in the seedling stage and were characterized by dwarf growth and reduced petiole elongation (CITATION); these phenotypes also correlated in severity with the amount of recombinant protein detected (CITATION). In adult plants, the phenotypes of 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX plants became even more pronounced (CITATION). To test if the phenotypes observed could be rescued by external application of BR, adult 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 plants were sprayed twice a week with a 1 μM 24-epiBL solution. As shown in CITATION, this treatment reverted the phenotypes of the transgenic plants to wild type like growth morphologies, indicating that the phenotypes in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX plants were caused by reduced levels of BRs. To investigate if the morphological evidence for BR deficiency could be verified at the molecular level, the expression of DWF4, CPD and ROT3 was analysed using quantitative real-time PCRs in a line with high recombinant protein expression, namely 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203, and in ces-D plants as a control. As shown in CITATION, the expression of CPD and ROT3 was slightly reduced in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 plants, whereas DWF4 expression did not appear to be significantly altered. In summary, dominant transcriptional repression of CES-dependent targets resulted in phenotypes opposing those of CES overexpression lines. To further reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying the ces-D and 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 constitutive phenotypes, we performed expression-profiling experiments using the commercially available whole-genome Arabidopsis Affymetrix Gene Chip. Seedlings of wild type, ces-D or 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 plants were grown for 10 days and were analysed in three independent biological experiments. The data obtained were then screened for the presence of genes with significantly changed expression (FDR Q-value of <0.10) in ces-D and 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 as compared with wild-type plants. The results are presented in CITATION (raw data in CITATION) and CITATION and show that in ces-D 370, genes were at least two-fold upregulated and 527 genes were at least two-fold downregulated in their expression. Very interestingly, when the presence of G-box motifs (5′-CACGTG-3′), known binding sites of bHLH proteins (CITATION), was determined in the 5′ UTRs of genes induced in ces-D, it was found that G-boxes were significantly enriched (expected 0.313, observed 0.421, P-value 3.34 × 10−6). On the contrary, G-boxes were hardly enriched in the 5′ UTRs of ces-D repressed genes (CITATION). Next, we determined if the expression of genes previously published to be BR responsive was altered in ces-D seedlings. A statistical analysis based on the data set of CITATION revealed that of 370 BR-induced genes, 52 were also upregulated in ces-D. This overlap is statistically highly significant (P-value 1.74 × 10−61). Using additional data sets (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), we could identify in total 57 of the 370 genes upregulated in ces-D as BR-induced genes (CITATION). Moreover, a significant share (8 of 23 genes; P-value 5.3 × 10−4) of genes highly induced in ces-D (⩾5-fold) encodes proteins with known or predicted transcriptional activity (CITATION). When ces-D-induced genes were analysed for their expression levels in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 seedlings, it was revealed that ∼8.4% were repressed in transcription by CES–SRDX. Of 527 ces-D repressed genes, ∼4.5%, were increased in expression in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 seedlings (CITATION). In 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 seedlings, the transcript abundance of 207 genes was significantly increased by at least two-fold, while 276 genes showed a more than two-fold reduction in mRNA levels. Interestingly, G-box motifs were highly significantly enriched in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 repressed genes (expected 0.313, observed 0.410, P-value 1.74 × 10−6), whereas they were only slightly over-represented in genes induced in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX expressing plants. Of 207 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 induced genes, 11.6% were decreased in ces-D, and of 276 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 repressed genes, 11.2% were increased in ces-D (CITATION). Thus, in summary, constitutive induction of CES expression in ces-D plants results in a missexpression of ∼4.9% of the transcriptome, whereby ces-D acts to both activate and repress gene transcription. Consistent with CES being an activator of BR responses, a highly significant number of genes upregulated in ces-D are also BR-induced genes. Moreover, ces-D-induced genes are characterized by an enrichment of G-box motifs in their promoters. 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX expressing plants also show complex changes in whole-genome gene expression. The promoters of 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203 repressed genes are characterized by a highly significant enrichment of G-box motifs, suggesting that CES–SRDX acts to directly suppress transcription. Since CES encodes a bHLH transcription factor and impacts on the regulation of gene expression, we were interested in analysing a promoter to which CES could bind. CPD was chosen as a putative target for this analysis, since it had proven to be significantly upregulated in ces-D (and downregulated in 35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX/203) both by qPCRs and in microarray analyses, and contains G-box motifs, suspected CES-binding sites, in its promoter. Moreover, nine additional genes, that were significantly upregulated in their expression in ces-D and contain G-box motifs in their promoters, were selected: COR15a, COR15b, CYP718, CYP724A1, DIN11, DWF4, JR2/CORI3, KIN1 and PHE2. Arabidopsis plants stably expressing a 35Sp:CES-YFP construct were generated and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments were carried out using an anti-GFP antibody to investigate CES binding to the G-box motifs in the sequences 5′ of the named genes. Very interestingly, of 10 genes analysed, CES bound specifically to fragments containing G-box motifs in the promoters of CPD and CYP718, a cytochrome P450 with a currently unknown function (CITATION). Of five G-box motifs present upstream of the CPD-coding sequence, CES bound specifically to one (data not shown). To unequivocally determine if CES can bind to G-box motifs, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) using the CPD-promoter fragment to which CES had bound in ChIPs as a probe (radioactively labelled), recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)–CES and cold competitor oligonucleotides were performed. The results confirmed that only the competitor containing the functional G-box (C3) could compete with the probe for CES binding. Other oligonucleotides, which did either not contain the G-box (C1, C2, C4 and C5) or harboured mutations in it (C6 and C7) could not out-compete the radioactively labelled fragment, showing specific interaction of CES with this motif (CITATION). Thus, CES acts as a transcription factor that can bind to G-box motifs in the promoters of the cytochrome P450s CPD and CYP718 in planta. In an attempt to gain further insight into the role of CES, its subcellular localization was investigated. A yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion to the C-terminus of full-length CES was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and was analysed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. As shown in CITATION, CES–YFP expression was present diffusely in the nucleus. Interestingly, upon BR treatment, CES–YFP localization in protoplasts reorganized to display a speckled nuclear expression pattern (CITATION). To analyse if the BL-induced CES–YFP localization to subnuclear foci was dependant on BR signalling, protoplasts expressing the fusion protein were treated with Bikinin (Bkn), which constitutively activates BR signalling by inhibiting GSK3s that negatively regulate BR signal transduction (CITATION). Similar to BR treatment, Bkn promoted a speckled CES–YFP localization pattern (CITATION). To verify the ability of BR treatment to alter CES–YFP subnuclear localization also in planta we analysed 35Sp:CES-YFP plants for BR-induced nuclear compartmentalization. Untreated 35Sp:CES-YFP plants showed a diffuse nuclear YFP localization (CITATION). As opposed to protoplasts, a 2 h BL treatment was not sufficient to induce CES–YFP nuclear compartmentalization in Arabidopsis. However, when plants were pretreated with a BR biosynthesis inhibitor for 24 h, a 2 h BL treatment induced relocalization of CES–YFP to subnuclear compartments, suggesting that CES nuclear localization is altered specifically in response to a rapid induction of BR biosynthesis/signalling (CITATION). Previously, it was shown that the expression of BEE1 and BEE3, close homologues of CES, is BR inducible (CITATION). To obtain information on the cellular localization of BEE1 and BEE3, which had not been investigated before, BEE1–YFP and BEE3–YFP fusion constructs under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter were generated. Analysis of 35Sp:BEE1–YFP and 35Sp:BEE3–YFP subcellular distribution in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed that both fusion proteins showed diffuse nuclear localization in the absence of externally applied BR. However, in response to both BL and Bkn treatment, 35Sp:BEE1–YFP and 35Sp:BEE3–YFP also relocalized to distinct nuclear compartments (CITATION). Moreover, coexpression of CES–CFP and BEE1–YFP fusions demonstrated that upon BL and Bkn treatment both reporters relocalized to the same nuclear compartments (CITATION). CES–CFP and BEE3–YFP similarly relocalized to the same subnuclear foci upon BL and Bkn treatment (CITATION). bHLH proteins typically act either as homodimers or as heterodimers in interaction with close homologues to regulate expression of their targets (CITATION). As the closest homologues of CES, BEE1 and BEE3 had previously been characterized as BL inducible, positive regulators of BR signalling (CITATION), we tested for interactions between CES and the BEEs. Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that CES can homodimerize as well as interact with both BEE1 and BEE3 to induce β-gal activity in yeast (CITATION). To test for the specificity of these interactions, we also analysed the ability of CES to interact with PIF3, a bHLH transcription factor involved in light signalling (CITATION). In contrast to BEE1 and BEE3, PIF3 did not interact with CES in yeast. To analyse if an interaction of CES with BEE1 or BEE3 may also occur in planta bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays (CITATION) were carried out. For this purpose, CES fused to the N-terminal portion of YFP and both BEE1 and BEE3 fused to the C-terminal portion of YFP were coexpressed in protoplasts. As shown in CITATION, yellow fluorescence was seen diffusely in the nucleus when protoplasts were cotransformed with CES and BEE1. In contrast, protoplasts cotransformed with CES and BEE3 split-YFP constructs as well as in the controls did not exhibit detectable fluorescence under our experimental conditions (data not shown). Bkn-induced nuclear redistribution of CES–YFP in protoplasts provided evidence for an immanent role of CES in BR signalling, and that these potential regulatory events take place either at the level of BIN2 or downstream of it. To investigate if such potential predicted effects of BIN2 on CES may be direct, in vitro kinase assays were performed. Both BIN2 and CES were purified as GST fusion proteins from Escherichia coli and used in phosphorylation reactions in the presence of radioactively labelled ATP. As a specific inhibitor, Bkn was added in increasing concentrations to block BIN2 activity. These assays demonstrated that BIN2 was able to utilize CES as a substrate in vitro (CITATION).
!~MM~! ces-D was originally isolated in the eir1-1 mutant background (CITATION) when screening a collection of T-DNA insertional mutants, generated with the T-DNA construct pSK115 (CITATION) corresponding to ∼14 000 independent transformants (CITATION). When backcrossed into Col-0, ces-D was found to segregate in a 3:1 ratio. All further analyses were performed in the Col-0 background. Southern blot and segregation analysis indicated that the ces-D phenotype was genetically linked to the BASTA resistance locus of a single T-DNA insertion. Genomic DNA flanking both the right and the left border of the T-DNA was cloned by plasmid rescue (CITATION) and the exact position of the T-DNA was determined by sequencing using the SOER2 and SOEL2 primers (all primers used are listed in the CITATION). For recapitulation of the ces-D mutant phenotypes, a vector was constructed that allowed constitutive overexpression of CES under control of the 35S promoter in plants and conferred resistance to the antibiotic gentamycin. The ORF of At1g25330 was PCR amplified from Col-0 cDNA (synthesized from flowers, developmental stages 10–12; as defined by CITATION) using gene-specific primers with integrated XhoI and BamHI restriction sites (CESp2RT-fw and CESp2RT-rv) and subcloned into the pGEM-T easy vector (Promega). After sequencing, the CES fragment was cloned into the plant expression vector p235a (CITATION) downstream of the 2x35S promoter. Twenty independent lines homozygous for 2x35Sp:CES were generated and analysed for CES expression using semi-quantitative RT–PCR. The CES dominant repression construct (35Sp:c-Myc-CES-SRDX) was created by fusing the full-length CES cDNA in frame with the dominant EAR repression sequence (CITATION), which was ligated downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter into the binary plant expression vector pGWR8 (CITATION). For the construction of a transcriptional CESpro:GUS reporter line, 1.5 kb of genomic sequence upstream of the CES start codon was amplified from genomic DNA using specific primers (CESfusions-fw-c and CEStranscGUS-rv-a) and cloned into pPZP-GUS.1 (CITATION). The construct was introduced into a wild-type Col-0 background and 30 independent homozygous lines were analysed for their GUS activities to identify a line with representative staining patterns. The selected line was then analysed for its GUS activity. For the generation of YFP and CFP reporter constructs, cDNAs of CES, BEE1 and BEE3 were amplified by PCR with the primers indicated in CITATION and cloned into pGWR8. cDNAs were subsequently tagged with YFP or CFP or with the N-terminal or C-terminal part of YFP for investigation of protein–protein interactions by bimolecular fluorescence (CITATION). The sequenced constructs were used for transient transfection of A. thaliana protoplasts as described previously (CITATION). Stably transformed A. thaliana seedlings expressing 35Sp:CES-YFP treated with 1 μM 24-epiBL for 2 h were investigated with an Axioplan II fluorescence microscope (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany). If necessary, BL was depleted by application of 2.5 μM Brz for 24 h. For semi-quantitative RT–PCR, DNaseI-treated total RNA isolated from plant tissue was used to synthesize cDNA using the RevertAid H minus first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Fermentas, St Leon-Rot, Germany). PCR reactions were performed using gene-specific primers that amplified 250–400 bp large fragments located in the C-terminal parts of the genes investigated. UBQ5 was used as an internal template control (CITATION). qPCR was performed with a StepONE Plus Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad, CA). Each reaction contained 10 μl 2 × Power PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems), 4 pmol of each primer and 5 μl cDNA (prepared as described and diluted 1:10) in a total volume of 20 μl. Cycling was performed as recommended by the manufacturer (initial denaturation: 94°C for 10 min; 40 cycles at 94°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min) and finally a melting curve was recorded. A dilution series of cloned cDNA was run under the same conditions and the results were used to plot a calibration curve, which served to calculate the relative transcript abundance in the samples. The relative expression levels were calculated from four replicates after normalization to UBQ5 (At3g62250) or CDKA1 (At3g48750). For transcriptome analysis, 10-day-old seedling of wild type, ces-D and 35Sp:CES-SRDX-c-Myc, grown on ATS media in long-day conditions, were analysed in three independent biological replicates using the commercially available whole-genome Arabidopsis Affymetrix Gene Chip of NASC (Nottinhgam, UK). Genes with a very low-signal intensity were excluded from further analysis. A signal intensity of at least 5.0 on average in at least one set was set as a trash-hold. Genes were considered as upregulated if (i) the corresponding signal intensity was at least two-fold increased as compared with wild type and if (ii) the FDR Q-value was below 0.10. Similarly, genes were considered as downregulated in ces-D or 35Sp:CES-SRDX-c-Myc plants if (i) their signal intensity was at least half than that in wild type and (ii) the Q-value below 0.10. Enrichment of hexamer nucleotide motifs was analysed using the program motiffinder available from the TAIR homepage (http://www.arabidopsis.org/tools/bulk/motiffinder/index.jsp). Enrichment of gene ontology and overlaps of expression data sets were calculated with Excel and Gorilla (http://cbl-gorilla.cs.technion.ac.il/). The P-values of a two-tailed t-test were calculated with Excel and converted to the FDR Q-values using the qval spreadsheet (http://www.rowett.ac.uk/~gwh/qval.xls). Plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h of 120 μmol/(m2.s) white light/8 h dark; 21±1°C/17±1°C) for 30 days, before tissue of aerial plant parts was harvested. Quantification of BRs was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For ChIP, 10-day-old plants were treated with ice-cold 1% formaldehyde solution in PBS for 30 min. After rinsing three times with cold PBS, the plant material was ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen and nuclei isolated as described previously (CITATION). The nuclei were lysed and the ChIP was performed with an anti-GFP antibody (Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN) and a ChIP Assay Kit (Millipore Cooperation, Bedford, MA) as recommended by the manufacturer. Enrichment of specific fragments was investigated by semi-quantitative PCR and qPCR. The same conditions as for transcript analysis were used. A dilution series of genomic A. thaliana DNA was used to plot a calibration curve, which served to calculate the relative abundance of the fragment in the samples. According to CITATION, the primer pair 5S-F/5S-R was used as internal control for qPCR to calculate the enrichment of the gene-specific fragment. The 196-bp CPD-ChIP-9/CPD-ChIP-10 amplicon of the CPD promoter that had shown a clear enrichment in the ChIP assay was used for EMSA probe preparation: 1 ng of this amplicon was mixed with 5 μl 5 × PCR buffer, 0.2 μl 25 mM dNTPs, 1.5 μl 5 μM CPD-ChIP-9, 1.5 μl 5 μM CPD-ChIP-10, 80 μCi [α-32P]-dCTP, 2 U GoTaq DNA polymerase (Promega, Madison, WI) and water added to 25 μl. After an initial denaturization step at 94°C for 5 min, the reaction was cycled 35 times (94°C for 30 s, 45°C for 1 min and 72°C for 2 min) prior a final extension step at 72°C for 10 min. Binding of CES to DNA was tested in 10 μl reactions containing 0.5 μg GST–CES, 1 μl 10 × binding buffer (250 mM HEPES/KOH pH 8.0, 500 mM KCl, 20 mM MgSO4, and 1 mM DTT), 2 μl 50% glycerol, 0.2 fmol probe and, if desired, 10 or 100 fmol competitor DNA. After incubation at 0°C for 30 min, 3 μl loading buffer was added (50% glycerol, 0.05% bromophenol blue) and the samples loaded onto a 6% PAGE gel that was run at 0°C in 1 × TBE buffer at 10 V/cm for 3 h. Band was detected by autoradiography.
