!~ABS~! The protein kinase TOR (target‐of‐rapamycin) upregulates translation initiation in eukaryotes, but initiation restart after long ORF translation is restricted by largely unknown pathways. The plant viral reinitiation factor transactivator–viroplasmin (TAV) exceptionally promotes reinitiation through a mechanism involving retention on 80S and reuse of eIF3 and the host factor reinitiation‐supporting protein (RISP) to regenerate reinitiation‐competent ribosomal complexes. Here, we show that TAV function in reinitiation depends on physical association with TOR, with TAV–TOR binding being critical for both translation reinitiation and viral fitness. Consistently, TOR‐deficient plants are resistant to viral infection. TAV triggers TOR hyperactivation and S6K1 phosphorylation in planta. When activated, TOR binds polyribosomes concomitantly with polysomal accumulation of eIF3 and RISP—a novel and specific target of TOR/S6K1—in a TAV‐dependent manner, with RISP being phosphorylated. TAV mutants defective in TOR binding fail to recruit TOR, thereby abolishing RISP phosphorylation in polysomes and reinitiation. Thus, activation of reinitiation after long ORF translation is more complex than previously appreciated, with TOR/S6K1 upregulation being the key event in the formation of reinitiation‐competent ribosomal complexes.
!~RES~! Stringent screening of a yeast genomic two‐hybrid library with TAV as bait yielded an N‐terminal fragment of yeast TOR1 with five HEAT repeat domains (aa 290–866). Thus, we subcloned the gene encoding Arabidopsis thaliana TOR (TOR; 250 kDa), and its 5′‐ and 3′‐terminal fragments—one encoding the entire HEAT repeat domain (NTOR, aa 1–1449) and the other including the sequence coding for kinase domain (CTOR, aa 1449–2481; FIG-REF, upper panel) to determine the ability of Arabidopsis TOR to interact with TAV. [[FIGURE]] To test whether TAV interacts physically with TOR, GST‐TOR, GST‐NTOR, GST‐CTOR and GST were each subjected to pull‐down assays with full‐length recombinant TAV. TAV directly bound both full‐length TOR and NTOR, but not CTOR or GST alone (FIG-REF, bottom panel). Next, we studied colocalization of these proteins in planta (Supplementary Figure S1). NTOR and CTOR fusions with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP–NTOR and EGFP–CTOR), and TAV with red fluorescent protein (RFP–TAV) under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter were expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana plants via Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. Analysis of leaf epidermal cells by confocal microscopy revealed RFP–TAV aggregates (Supplementary Figure S1A), consistent with its role as a major component of viroplasm, whereas expression of either EGFP–NTOR or EGFP–CTOR alone induced diffuse fluorescent signals. However, coexpression of RFP–TAV and EGFP–NTOR fusion proteins produced structures that exactly superimposed with RFP–TAV aggregates (Supplementary Figure S1B), indicating their interaction, with a high proportion of TAV particles colocalizing with a subpopulation of NTOR as confirmed by high values of Pearson's correlation coefficient, Rr=0.776 (see Supplementary data). The intracellular behaviour of the EGFP–CTOR fusion protein was not modified in the presence of RFP–TAV. We identified TOR and TAV interaction domains using the yeast two‐hybrid assay (FIG-REF). NTOR bound TAV via the minimal transactivation domain (MAV; CITATION) (FIG-REF). Accordingly, TAV lacking MAV was unable to interact with AD‐NTOR, confirming that MAV is essential for TOR binding. A putative RNA‐binding motif (dsR, aa 136–182; CITATION) within MAV contains two α‐helices and three β‐sheets (FIG-REF). Two stretches of three amino acids—145AsnGlyPro (ΔNGP) and 171LysLysPhe (ΔKKF)—highly conserved in CaMV strains were deleted separately to test the specificity of TAV binding to TOR. Both deletions abolished TAV–TOR binding (FIG-REF), while their binding to the other TAV‐interacting partner eIF3g was unaffected (FIG-REF). Indeed, eIF3g binds to the multiple protein‐binding domain (MBD; CITATION)—a site adjacent to MAV (FIG-REF). Next, we tested whether these deletion mutants affect CaMV replication and the reinitiation capacity of TAV in planta (FIG-REF). Replication was assayed in protoplasts, where TAV is required to allow polycistronic translation of the 35S pregenomic RNA to produce proteins essential for CaMV replication (capsid protein precursor (GAG) and polyprotein with protease, reverse transcriptase and RNase H activity (POL)) as described previously (CITATION). We found that the TAVΔKKF and TAVΔNGP mutants, which are expressed as efficiently as wild‐type TAV (FIG-REF), did not support CaMV replication in plant protoplasts (FIG-REF). DNA replication was restored only when the viral proteins GAG and POL were provided in trans, strongly suggesting that deletion of either of these sets of three amino acids specifically affects TAV transactivation function. Thus, deletion of either KKF or NGP motifs specifically abolishes TAV transactivation function in plant protoplasts as well as TAV binding to TOR. To identify a link between TOR/TAV complex formation and TAV‐mediated transactivation, we examined whether this interaction activates the TOR/S6K1 signalling pathway. Activation of S6K1 in mammals involves phosphorylation of S6K1 Thr389 (T389), located in the hydrophobic motif by mTORC1 (CITATION). Comparing mammalian S6K1 (p70S6K) with its Arabidopsis orthologues S6K1 and S6K2 suggests that plant S6K1 T449 is the functional equivalent of mammalian p70S6K‐T389 (S6K1‐T389; FIG-REF). TOR does not respond to rapamycin in Arabidopsis due to the inability of the Arabidopsis homologue of the peptidyl‐prolyl isomerase FKBP12 to present rapamycin to AtTOR (CITATION; CITATION), but phosphorylation of S6K1 can be blocked by rapamycin in maize plants (CITATION). However, phosphorylation of recombinant S6K1 by rice extracts detected after 5 min of incubation was abolished by rapamycin treatment (FIG-REF), confirming that phospho‐specific anti‐S6K1‐T389‐P antibodies are able to recognize Arabidopsis phosphorylated S6K1 in a rapamycin‐sensitive manner (for band density quantification of FIG-REF, see Supplementary data S2). [[FIGURE]] Next, we compared the capacities of plant extracts prepared from either TAV Arabidopsis transgenic line AT7 or wild‐type plants to phosphorylate the hydrophobic motif of S6K1 (FIG-REF). The results revealed that the levels of phosphorylated S6K1 (S6K1‐T449‐P) were elevated about eight‐fold after a 15‐min incubation of recombinant S6K1 with AT7 extracts as compared with wild‐type extracts; the endogenous S6K1 phosphorylation level in AT7 extracts (no incubation) was also strongly increased. The TOR‐specific phosphorylation site mutation (T449A) completely abolished S6K1 recognition by anti‐S6K1‐T389‐P antibodies. The ability of S6K1‐T389‐P antiserum to distinguish between wild‐type S6K1 and the S6K1 T449A mutant suggests that the antiserum is specific for Arabidopsis S6K1 phosphorylated at T449. Since TAV overexpression correlates with increased S6K1 phosphorylation at T449 in vitro, it seemed possible that the level of phosphorylated TOR and S6K1 would be constitutively high in TAV‐transgenic plants. To examine this hypothesis, we compared phosphorylation levels of S6K1 and TOR in extracts prepared from AT7, wild‐type plants, the T‐DNA insertion line G548 expressing high levels of TOR, and the TOR‐deficient RNAi silenced line 35–7 (Supplementary Figure S3A; CITATION). While G548 plants displayed enhanced plant growth compared with wild‐type plants, TOR‐deficient plants were smaller, often having a particular phenotype characterized by the presence of serrated and pointed leaves (Supplementary Figure S3B). Extracts prepared from these plants were subjected to SDS–PAGE and probed with phosphospecific‐S2448 mTOR antibody (p70S6K was found as a major effector of mTOR phosphorylation at S2448; CITATION) or S6K1‐T389‐P antibodies (FIG-REF). TOR was detected in AT7 and wild‐type plants; a somewhat stronger TOR band was detected in TOR‐overexpressing plants, while TOR‐deficient 35–7 plants contained TOR levels at the limit of detection (FIG-REF). Phosphorylated TOR was detected easily only in AT7 plants, with the signal again being below the detection limit for G548 and WT plants, strongly indicating an influence of TAV on TOR phosphorylation (FIG-REF). As for phosphorylation of the TOR‐dependent substrate S6K1, phosphothreonine 449 was also higher in AT7 compared with G548 and WT plants. No significant amount of phosphothreonine 449 was detected in 35–7 plants with our antibodies, further suggesting that TOR or TOR‐dependent kinase are major effectors of S6K1 phosphorylation in Arabidopsis. To strengthen our conclusion that TAV is specifically activating TOR phosphorylation of S6K1, we attempted to inhibit TOR kinase activity in AT7 plants using a specific TOR inhibitor, Torin‐1 (Supplementary Figure S2A). Torin‐1 interacts with the TOR kinase domain within the ATP‐binding pocket and blocks TOR phosphorylation with an ATP‐competitive mode of action to inhibit cap‐dependent mRNA translation (CITATION; CITATION). Growth of Arabidopsis seedlings on medium with Torin‐1 eliminated the increased levels of S6K1‐T449‐P and thus TOR‐S2448‐P, suggesting inactivation of the TOR pathway despite the presence of high levels of TAV (Supplementary Figure S2A). To study the effect of TAV/TOR binding on phosphorylation of endogenous TOR and S6K1 in Arabidopsis plants, we employed two transgenic lines expressing either TAV or its ΔdsR mutant lacking the TOR‐binding site (Δaa 136–182). Interestingly, AT7ΔdsR plants expressing the TAV mutant allele displayed no phenotypic defects, despite accumulation of comparable levels of mutant TAV (Figure 6C), while plants constitutively expressing TAV display strong stunting and a chlorotic dwarf phenotype resembling CaMV‐elicited symptoms (Supplementary Figure S3A). Deletion of the TOR‐binding site of TAV decreased the ability of AT7ΔdsR extracts to phosphorylate recombinant S6K1 in vitro by about 10‐fold compared with that of AT7 extracts (FIG-REF), strongly suggesting that TAV dsR is critical for TOR signalling activation. To determine if the dsR domain is critical for TAV/TOR complex formation in vivo, we immunoprecipitated TOR from plants expressing TAV or its ΔdsR mutant and assayed TOR association with TAV and RISP. As expected, TOR immunoprecipitates from AT7 plants contained both TAV and RISP (FIG-REF), but those from AT7ΔdsR plants were devoid of both proteins. In contrast, complex formation between TAV, eIF3 and RISP is not dependent on TOR/TAV interaction and proceeds efficiently with either TAV or TAVΔdsR. Thus, we can dissect MAV into domains that are responsible largely for interaction with TOR (the dsR domain) or RISP (the MAV C‐terminus). To verify whether S6K1 phosphorylation is also elevated during the course of CaMV infection, we mechanically inoculated Arabidopsis plants with CaMV and monitored S6K1 induction kinetics within pools of these plants (viral symptoms were seen 10 days post‐inoculation, dpi). Strikingly, levels of S6K1‐T449‐P (normalized to a loading control) increased significantly in CaMV‐infected plants up to 14 dpi, while TOR and S6K1 levels were unaffected (FIG-REF). These results confirm that overexpression of TAV either alone or via virus propagation correlates with TOR activation. Furthermore, as shown in FIG-REF, eIF3 coimmunoprecipitated with TOR in both wild‐type and CaMV‐infected plants. The high phosphorylation level of S6K1 in extracts prepared from CaMV‐infected plants at 14 dpi (FIG-REF) correlates with increased amounts of eIF3 pelleted by TOR in flower extracts prepared from CaMV‐infected plants compared with uninfected plants (14 dpi; FIG-REF), indicating that eIF3 can serve as a platform for activated TOR binding in planta, as suggested in mammals (CITATION). As TAV stimulates TOR signalling, we next asked whether TOR phosphorylation activity is required to promote the TAV reinitiation function. For transient expression experiments in mesophyll protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis leaves, we used two reporter plasmids: pmonoGFP, containing a single GFP ORF; and pbiGUS, containing two consecutive ORFs: CaMV ORF VII and β‐glucuronidase (GUS; CITATION), where GUS serves as a marker of transactivation, and GFP as a control for transformation/cap‐dependent translation initiation efficiency (FIG-REF). In addition, plants were cotransformed with reporter plasmids encoding TAV and either TOR or its functionally inactive version TOR‐D2247A (corresponds to functionally inactive mutant of mTOR, mTOR‐D2338A; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Upon transfection of protoplasts, the biGUS construct did not give rise to any significant GUS activity (FIG-REF). In contrast, the monoGFP vector was fully active. Thus, upstream ORF VII blocks downstream GUS gene expression, and no GUS activity appeared as a result of reinitiation or any putative biGUS mRNA cleavage in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. As expected, activation of translation of the second ORF (GUS) via reinitiation depended exclusively on the presence of TAV (FIG-REF). TOR, when overexpressed above its endogenous level in the presence of TAV, enhanced GUS ORF transactivation two‐fold. Overexpression of both TAV and TOR correlates with a strongly increased endogenous level of S6K1 phosphothreonine 449 (FIG-REF, lane 3). In contrast, expression of TOR‐D2247A lacking phosphorylation capacity (FIG-REF, lane 4) did not increase the level of TAV‐mediated transactivation (FIG-REF). Monitoring of RNA transcript levels using RT–qPCR and semiquantitative RT–PCR in extracts did not reveal any significant differences in biGUS mRNA length or level (FIG-REF, bottom panels) with or without TAV and TOR. The levels of transiently expressed TAV, and either TOR or TOR‐D2247A in protoplasts did not differ significantly under the different experimental conditions after 24 h of incubation (FIG-REF). Thus, the kinase activity of TOR is required to stimulate TAV function in reinitiation after translation of a long ORF. TAV mutants lacking the capacity to interact with TOR are unable to promote polycistronic translation and abolish viral replication, suggesting that TOR knockdown would increase plant resistance to CaMV (FIG-REF). To test whether CaMV indeed recruits TOR to overcome cell resistance, we studied susceptibility to viral infection of TOR‐deficient RNAi 35–7 plants that display the serrated and pointed leaf phenotype (see Supplementary Figure S3B). Appearance of symptoms (FIG-REF) and virus replication kinetics (FIG-REF) in wild‐type and 35–7 plants mechanically inoculated with CaMV were compared in two independent experiments. In all 13 wild‐type plants tested, TAV and viral coat protein (CP) accumulation was first observed at 10 dpi, while we failed to detect viral proteins in 10 tested 35–7 plants up to 21 dpi (FIG-REF) and 28 dpi (data not shown). Although symptom appearance at 14 dpi was strong for wild‐type plants (typical vein‐clearing symptoms indicative of systemic infection), 35–7 plants displayed no symptoms at either 14 dpi (FIG-REF) or 28 dpi (data not shown). Comparable RT–qPCR and western blot analyses of these WT and 35–7 plants revealed a drastic decrease in TOR RNA, and TOR protein levels were practically nondetectable in our conditions (FIG-REF). We concluded that this resistance to CaMV is due to low TOR availability limiting viral replication in Arabidopsis plants. [[FIGURE]] We next determined whether these TOR knockdown plants fail to support TAV‐mediated transactivation. Protoplasts prepared from 35–7 and wild‐type plants were transformed with the pmonoGFP and pbiGUS plasmids used above. Again, upon transfection of protoplasts, the biGUS construct did not give rise to any significant GUS activity without TAV (FIG-REF), indicating that ORFVII is intact and suppresses reinitiation at the GUS ORF. Transient expression of GUS was activated only upon cotransfection with the pTAV vector (FIG-REF). As expected, protoplasts prepared from TOR‐deficient plants had no capacity to mediate reinitiation of the downstream GUS ORF with or without TAV (see FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure S4A), while GFP synthesis was largely unaffected. biGUS RNA transcript length and levels were monitored by qPCR and semiquantitative RT–PCR (FIG-REF, bottom panels). In addition, TAV‐mediated transactivation in 35–7 protoplasts was rescued upon transient expression of TOR (Supplementary Figure S4B). Therefore, we conclude that TOR is an essential partner of TAV in activation of reinitiation after long ORF translation, and that substantial TOR protein levels are required for TAV transactivation function. Previous studies have suggested that TAV functions in transactivation by promoting retention of eIF3 and RISP on translating ribosomes; in sucrose gradient sedimentation experiments, TAV, eIF3 and RISP comigrated with polyribosomal fractions in CaMV‐infected plants (CITATION; CITATION). In order to understand the mechanism whereby TAV‐dependent activation of TOR promotes reinitiation, it would be useful to know whether TOR is recruited to polysomes in TAV‐transgenic plants. This was tested using cytoplasmic extracts prepared from young Arabidopsis wild‐type and TOR‐deficient seedlings fractionated on sucrose gradients (FIG-REF, respectively). Evaluation of eIF3, RISP and TOR in sucrose gradient fractions demonstrated their comigration largely with 40S ribosomal subunit fractions of the gradients (FIG-REF). WT extract polysomes treated with EDTA dissociated into 60S‐ and 40S‐containing complexes, where eIF3, RISP and TOR shifted to 40S and top gradient fractions (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] In TAV‐transgenic plants, TAV, eIF3 and RISP comigrate with polysomes (FIG-REF). Strikingly, TOR was also found associated with polysomes in the presence of TAV. We next asked whether TOR, eIF3 and RISP polysomal distribution is affected by removing the TOR‐binding site of TAV. To answer this question, polysomes prepared from seedlings expressing TAVΔdsR were analysed as above; TOR binding to polysomes was completely abolished (FIG-REF). Although comigration of eIF3 and RISP with polysomes was not significantly affected by dsR removal, and TAVΔdsR was detected in polysomes, its abundance in polysomes was somewhat reduced. We conclude that TOR associates with polysomes in TAV‐transgenic plants in the presence of TAV, but seems not to be required for TAV, eIF3 and RISP recruitment to polysomes. While EDTA treatment, which dissociates polysomes, shifted western blot signals to the top of gradients (FIG-REF), some TAV, eIF3g and RISP seems to cosediment not only in 40S, but also 60S fractions (FIG-REF). To analyse this unusual comigration with 60S in detail, we adjusted sedimentation conditions to resolve 60S‐ and 40S‐containing complexes after EDTA treatment of polysomes (FIG-REF). The data obtained show that TAV, eIF3g and RISP are shifted into 60S‐containing fractions of the gradient, indicating their association with 60S also within polysomes (for band density quantification see Supplementary data S5). Interestingly, TOR cosediments with 60S‐containing complexes in AT7 plants. The data presented above provide evidence that the activation state of TOR as mediated by TAV governs its binding to polysomes. We hypothesized that either activated TOR or its downstream target kinases phosphorylate protein(s) associated with polysomes in a TAV‐dependent manner. This hypothesis was supported by the fact that RISP harbours the pattern RGRLES found in many Akt or S6K1 substrates (phospho‐Ser/Thr preceded by Lys/Arg at positions −5 and −3 (R/KxR/KxxS/T)) within the central domain of RISP, which was implicated earlier in TAV binding (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] First, we investigated whether TOR promotes RISP phosphorylation. Initial experiments examining TAV or RISP phosphorylation capacities in the presence of an Arabidopsis extract and 32P orthophosphate/ATP suggested that, like recombinant S6K1, recombinant RISP could indeed serve as a substrate for phosphorylation (Supplementary Figure S6). In both cases, RISP and S6K1 phosphorylation was elevated in extracts prepared from AT7 plants. We further examined the phosphorylation capacity of RISP by using the rapamycin‐sensitive rice extract and phospho‐specific anti‐(RxRxxpS/T) antibodies (these antibodies have been used successfully to identify putative protein substrates of the TOR/S6K1 pathway (CITATION)). The Ser residue 267 (S267) is a predicted phosphorylation site within the consensus pattern of RISP (FIG-REF, top panel). Accordingly, we found specific phosphorylation of RISP in this rice extract, whereas rapamycin abrogated RISP phosphorylation (FIG-REF). The S267A mutation completely abolished RISP recognition by anti‐(RxRxxpS/T) antibodies, strongly indicating that RISP is phosphorylated at S267 (for band density quantification of FIG-REF, see Supplementary Figure S7). To gain further evidence that TOR/S6K1‐mediated phosphorylation of RISP is under TAV control, we determined if an extract expressing TAV is more efficient in RISP phosphorylation than one expressing TAVΔdsR. Strikingly, in TAV‐containing Arabidopsis extracts, the RISP phosphorylation level was more than three‐fold higher than in extracts with mutant TAV (FIG-REF). Taken together, these results strongly suggest that RISP is a substrate of the TOR pathway, and that phosphorylation of S6K1 and RISP is increased by the TAV dsR domain. Indeed, western blot analyses of extracts prepared from AT7 or AT7ΔdsR plants confirmed hyperactivated phosphorylation levels of TOR, S6K1 and RISP in TAV‐expressing plants (FIG-REF). However, in TAVΔdsR‐overexpressing plants, a significant level of phosphorylated RISP is maintained by TOR/S6K1 activated independently of TAV (FIG-REF). Our previously published results showed that endogenous RISP coimmunoprecipitates with endogenous eIF3 and eIF2 in plants, and that the RISP–eIF3 complex interacts with the 40S ribosomal subunit in vitro, suggesting RISP participation in 40S‐containing PIC (CITATION). After identifying RISP S267 as a putative phosphorylation site of the TOR/S6K1 signalling pathway, we set out to analyse whether RISP can potentially interact with S6K1. Indeed, RISP fused to the Gal4‐binding domain interacts strongly with S6K1 fused to the activation domain of Gal4 under our yeast two‐hybrid system conditions (FIG-REF). Phosphorylation of S6K1‐T389 regulates the interaction between S6K1 and eIF3‐PIC in mammalian cells, and therefore the S6K1‐T389A mutant is characterized by increased affinity to eIF3 (CITATION). Thus, we tested if the S267A mutation of RISP would alter complex formation between RISP and its interacting partners in the yeast two‐hybrid system. First, we confirmed that RISP, but not its S267A mutant, is phosphorylated in yeast extracts (FIG-REF, bottom panel). As shown in FIG-REF, the phosphorylation inactive mutant of RISP has a reproducibly stronger interaction with eIF3c than wild‐type RISP. These results suggest that phosphorylation of RISP in wild‐type plants can occur within eIF3‐containing complexes that seem to preferentially bind unphosphorylated RISP. In contrast, the S267A mutation had the opposite effect on RISP binding to TAV, decreasing the interaction by 50%. Binding of the RISP mutant to other RISP partner, L24 was decreased by about 40%, as was TAV (FIG-REF). Thus, RISP phosphorylation seems to strengthen its binding to both TAV and 60S L24, and both complexes are implicated in RISP loading on polysomes in AT7 and CaMV‐infected plants. To address the question of whether phosphorylation of RISP stimulates reinitiation, we used protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis suspension culture to study the effect of the S267A mutation on the capacity of transiently expressed RISP to stimulate TAV‐mediated transactivation (FIG-REF). Little to no increase in TAV‐mediated GUS activity was detected with a construct encoding RISP‐S267A (FIG-REF, right panel), which was characterized by a negligible phosphorylation level (left panel, lane 3), while highly phosphorylated transiently expressed wild‐type RISP (left panel, lane 4) increases TAV‐mediated transactivation by more than 2.5‐fold (right panel, lane 4). Together, these results indicate that RISP phosphorylated at S267 is largely active in reinitiation of translation. In sucrose sedimentation gradients, TOR is seen associated with ribosomal subunits with or without TAV, and monosomes/polysomes in TAV‐overexpressing plants (FIG-REF). We tested whether TAV‐mediated association of TOR with polysomes is required for phosphorylation of RISP. We thus investigated segregation of RISP and its phosphorylated form between polysomes, monosomes and ribosomal subunits in the presence of overexpressed TAV or dsR mutant TAV (FIG-REF). Polysomes were analysed as described above using anti‐TAV, anti‐RISP and anti‐(RxRxxpS/T) antibodies. In preparations from AT7 extracts, a significant amount of phosphorylated RISP (RISP‐S267‐P) sedimented preferentially with polysomes, monosomes and 60S ribosomal subunits (FIG-REF, left panel). This pattern roughly matched the distribution of total RISP, except that 40S fractions contain less RISP‐S267‐P. As shown already in FIG-REF, removal of the dsR domain did not abolish association of total RISP with polysomes: TAVΔdsR binds polysomes and mediates recruitment of RISP. In contrast, while RISP‐S267‐P was still associated with fractions of monosomes, 60S and preferentially 40S ribosomal subunits in TAVΔdsR‐expressing extracts, polysomes were occupied by RISP in the nonphosphorylated state (FIG-REF, right panel). RISP‐P distribution between polysomes, monosomes and ribosomal subunits likely reflects the distribution of TOR in TAV or TAVΔdsR plants. Thus, there was no phosphorylated RISP in polysomes without associated TOR (cf. FIG-REF and FIG-REF).
!~MM~! Detailed description of plasmid construction, oligos and antibodies is found in the Supplementary data. Glutathione‐S‐transferase pull‐down assays were carried out as described in CITATION. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments were performed as described (CITATION; Supplementary data). GAL4‐based yeast two‐hybrid protein interaction assays were performed according to CITATION. Arabidopsis protoplasts were prepared from either suspension culture or from 3‐ to 4‐week‐old plantlets (mesophyll protoplasts) transfected with plasmid DNA by PEG method as described in Supplementary data. The in vitro kinase assay was carried out in buffer (25 mM HEPES pH 7.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM ATP), with small aliquots of extracts prepared from Arabidopsis Col0, AT7, AT7ΔdsR plants, or rice homogenized suspension culture supernatants with or without 0.1 mM. Rapamycin in the presence of 10 mg of recombinant Arabidopsis S6K1 at 30°C. The aliquots taken as indicated were analysed by immunoblot with corresponding antibodies. Polyribosomes were isolated from 7‐day‐old Arabidopsis samples and analysed by density sucrose centrifugation (Supplementary data). Quantitative PCR analysis was performed according to the SYBR Green qPCR kit protocol (Supplementary data). Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
