!~ABS~! Autophagy is a pathway for degradation of cytoplasmic components. In plants, autophagy plays an important role in nutrient recycling during nitrogen or carbon starvation, and in responses to abiotic stress. Autophagy also regulates age- and immunity-related programmed cell death, which is important in plant defense against biotrophic pathogens. Here we show that autophagy plays a critical role in plant resistance to necrotrophic pathogens. ATG18a, a critical autophagy protein in Arabidopsis, interacts with WRKY33, a transcription factor that is required for resistance to necrotrophic pathogens. Expression of autophagy genes and formation of autophagosomes are induced in Arabidopsis by the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. Induction of ATG18a and autophagy by B. cinerea was compromised in the wrky33 mutant, which is highly susceptible to necrotrophic pathogens. Arabidopsis mutants defective in autophagy exhibit enhanced susceptibility to the necrotrophic fungal pathogens B. cinerea and Alternaria brassicicola based on increased pathogen growth in the mutants. The hypersusceptibility of the autophagy mutants was associated with reduced expression of the jasmonate-regulated PFD1.2 gene, accelerated development of senescence-like chlorotic symptoms, and increased protein degradation in infected plant tissues. These results strongly suggest that autophagy cooperates with jasmonate- and WRKY33-mediated signaling pathways in the regulation of plant defense responses to necrotrophic pathogens.
!~RES~! To identify WRKY33-interacting proteins using a Gal4 transcription activation-based yeast two-hybrid system, we first fused the whole WRKY33 protein to the DNA-binding domain (BD) of Gal4 (BD–WRKY33), but found that the fusion protein itself has transcription-activating activity and activated reporter genes in yeast cells. We then fused Gal4 BD with the C-terminal two-thirds of WRKY33, starting from amino acid residue 181 (BD–cWRKY33), and found little activation of reporter genes when the fusion protein was expressed in yeast cells. Using BD–cWRKY33 as bait, we screened 3 × 106 independent transformants of a previously constructed Arabidopsis cDNA prey library at a complexity of 2 × 106 (CITATION). Among the positive clones identified by both prototrophy for histidine and LacZ reporter gene expression through assays of β-galactosidase activity were those encoding AtATG18a (At3g62770), one of eight Arabidopsis proteins (AtATG18a–AtATG18h) related to the yeast autophagy protein ATG18. Yeast ATG18 is required for both the starvation-induced autophagy pathway and the constitutive cytoplasm-to-vacuole autophagy pathway (CITATION; CITATION). The ATG18 protein is a WD-40 repeat protein folded as seven-bladed β-propellers, which bind both phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (CITATION; CITATION). The ATG18 protein localizes to both pre-autophagosomal structures and punctate structures at the vacuolar membrane (CITATION; CITATION). On the other hand, transcription factor WRKY33 is localized to the nucleus (CITATION). To form a protein complex, at least some of the ATG18a and WRKY33 proteins would have to be localized in the same subcellular compartment. To test this and confirm formation of the WRKY33/ATG18a complex, we examined their interaction using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) (CITATION) in Agrobacterium tumefaciens-infiltrated tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves. We fused full-length WRKY33 to an N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fragment and ATG18a to a C-terminal YFP fragment. When fused WRKY33–N-YFP was co-expressed with ATG18a–C-YFP in tobacco leaves, BiFC signal was detected in the nuclear compartment of transformed cells, based on staining with 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) (Figure 1a). Control experiments in which WRKY33–N-YFP was co-expressed with unfused C-YFP or unfused N-YFP was co-expressed with ATG18a-C-YFP did not show any fluorescence. Furthermore, when WRKY48–N-YFP was co-expressed with ATG18a–C-YFP, we observed no fluorescence (Figure 1a). These experiments strongly indicate that WRKY33 interacts with ATG18a in the nuclear compartment of plant cells. [[FIGURE]] To further analyze their interactions in plant cells, we performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments. First we generated transgenic wrky33-2 mutant plants harboring a WRKY33–TAP (tandem affinity purification) fusion construct under the control of the native promoter. Western blotting detected inducible expression of the transgene, and WRKY33–TAP can fully complement the wrky33 mutant for resistance to Botrytis (Figure S1). The transgenic plants were infiltrated with agrobacteria containing the ATG18a–C-YFP or C-YFP constructs under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Total proteins were isolated from infiltrated plants and subjected to a tandem affinity purification procedure as previously described for EDS1 and PAD4 (CITATION). The eluted proteins from the purification procedure were analyzed by Western blotting using antibody against YFP. Protein complexes purified from transgenic WRKY33–TAP plants infiltrated with ATG18a–C-YFP-containing agrobacteria showed positive interactions with anti-YFP antisera (Figure 1b). By contrast, protein complexes purified from transgenic WRKY33–TAP plants infiltrated with C-YFP-containing agrobacteria showed no cross-reactivity with the antisera (Figure 1b). The co-immunoprecipitation experiments supported interaction of WRKY33 with ATG18a in plant cells. Yeast ATG18 is usually cytosolic, but is also present in the nucleus at low levels, with or without nutrient starvation (CITATION). To further investigate the subcellular localization of Arabidopsis ATG18a, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing an ATG18a–GFP fusion under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. In uninfected plants, we observed dispersed ATG18a–GFP signal in the cytoplasm (Figure 2). Significantly, we also observed GFP fluorescent signal in the nuclear compartment, based on DAPI staining (Figure 2). After Botrytis infection, we observed ATG18a-GFP signal with punctate structures in the cytoplasm as well as in the nucleus (Figure 2). Thus, like its yeast counterpart, Arabidopsis ATG18a is localized in both cytosolic and nuclear compartments with or without Botrytis infection. Analysis of the ATG18a protein sequence revealed clusters of basic amino acids that may act as potential nuclear localization signals (Figure S2). [[FIGURE]] As WRKY33 is important for plant resistance to necrotrophic pathogens and physically interacts with ATG18a, we analyzed a possible role for ATG18a and autophagy in plant defense against this particular type of plant pathogen. As a first step, we analyzed the expression of ATG18a in response to infection with Botrytis. As shown in Figure 3, a low basal level of ATG18a transcripts was detected in uninfected wild-type and wrky33 mutant plants. Mock inoculation did not lead to significant induction of the autophagy gene in wild-type plants (Figure 3). The levels of ATG18a transcripts were substantially induced at 1 day post-inoculation (dpi) with Botrytis, and remained elevated at 2, 3 and 4 dpi. In wrky33 mutant plants, the levels of ATG18a transcripts after mock inoculation were similar to those in wild-type plants (Figure 3). In Botrytis-inoculated wrky33 mutant plants, ATG18a was also induced to a level similar to that in wild-type plants at 1 dpi (Figure 3). However, in contrast to wild-type plants, the levels of ATG18a transcripts in the wrky33 mutant were significantly reduced at 2 dpi compared with1 dpi, and were barely detectable at 3 and 4 dpi (Figure 3). Thus, WRKY33 is dispensable for initial induction but is necessary for sustained induction of the autophagy gene ATG18a in Botrytis-infected plants. [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed the expression patterns of other Arabidopsis autophagy genes, including ATG5, ATG6, ATG7, ATG8a, ATG9 and ATG10. As shown in Figure 4, basal levels of transcripts for these ATG genes were found in uninoculated Arabidopsis plants. As observed for ATG18a, the transcript levels for the six ATG genes were not increased in mock-inoculated plants but substantially increased in Botrytis-infected plants (Figure 4). Most of these ATG genes also shared similar induction kinetics, with a detectable increase in transcript levels at 1 dpi and a continued increase at 2, 3 and 4 dpi (Figure 4). Induction of ATG5 and ATG10 was delayed, as their transcript levels were not increased until 2 dpi (Figure 4). Thus, Arabidopsis autophagy genes are responsive to infection with a necrotrophic pathogen. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the mechanism of induction of ATG genes in response to Botrytis infection, we examined the 1.5 kb promoter sequences upstream of the translational start sites of the seven ATG genes. There are 21 TTGAC W-box core sequences in the seven ATG gene promoters (Table S1). Other potential cis-acting elements present in the promoters of the ATG genes include those recognized by the TGA, GBF, ERF and ARCA transcription factors (Table S1). Further studies involving promoter dissection and functional analysis of corresponding transcription factors are required to determine the role of binding sites in induction of ATG genes. To further assess the involvement of autophagy in plant responses to necrotrophic pathogens, we examined the effect of Botrytis infection on induction of autophagosome formation using GFP-tagged ATG8a, which has been shown to be associated with autophagosomes and therefore can be used as a marker of autophagosomes in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP–ATG8a were inoculated with Botrytis and observed by confocal fluorescence microscopy 1 day later. In mock-inoculated leaves, we detected low and disperse GFP–ATG8a signals (Figure 5a). In Botrytis-inoculated leaves, where small lesions were already visible at 1 dpi, there was small but detectable increase in GFP–ATG8a signal in the lesion areas (Figure 5a). However, in the areas surrounding the lesions, there was a considerable increase in the GFP–ATG8a signal (Figure 5a). Under high magnification, we observed an increase in punctate GFP–ATG8a fluorescent structures, not only in areas surrounding the lesions but also in more distal areas in which no fungal mycelium was observed (Figure 5c). No GFP signal was observed in Botrytis-inoculated leaves of untransformed wild-type plants that do not contain the GFP–ATG8a transgene (Figure 5a). These observations indicate that autophagy is induced by necrotrophic pathogen not only in infected cells but also in surrounding uninfected cells. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether WRKY33 is involved in induction of autophagy by Botrytis, we also transformed the GFP–ATG8a construct into the wrky33 mutant and analyzed the GFP–ATG8a signal after Botrytis infection. As in wild-type, we observed a significant increase in GFP–ATG8a signal in punctate structures in lesion areas of the wrky33 mutant at 1 dpi (Figure 4b,c). In the areas surrounding the lesions, however, we observed greatly reduced GFP–ATG8a signal compared to that observed in wild-type leaves (Figure 4b). Thus, functional WRKY33 is required for induction of autophagy by Botrytis in the areas surrounding infected cells. To visualize induction of autophagy, we also used LysoTracker Green dye, which stains acidic organelles, including autophagosomes (CITATION). In mock-inoculated leaves, we observed only low and disperse signals (Figure 6a). In Botrytis-inoculated leaves, on the other hand, there was small increase in the fluorescence signal in the lesion areas and a high increase in the areas surrounding the lesions (Figure 6a). Under a higher magnification, association of signal with punctate structures could be better observed (Figure 6b). No increase in signal was observed in Botrytis-inoculated leaves of the atg18a mutant (Figure 6a). In Botrytis-infected wrky33 mutants, a significant increase in the fluorescence signal with punctate structures was observed in the lesion areas at 1 dpi (Figure 6a). However, in the areas surrounding the lesions, the fluorescence signal was reduced compared to that in wild-type leaves (Figure 6a). These observations confirm that autophagy is induced by necrotrophic pathogen, and that WRKY33 plays a positive role in induction of autophagy in the areas surrounding Botrytis-infected cells. [[FIGURE]] Given the observed WRKY33 and ATG18a interaction and induction of autophagy by Botrytis, we further investigated the role of autophagy in plant disease resistance by using knockout or RNAi mutants for several previously characterized ATG genes in Arabidopsis. First we identifed a T-DNA insertion mutant for ATG18a (GABI_651D08), and obtained a previously characterized RNAi-ATG18a line from Dr Diane Bassham (Department of Genetics, Development and Cell Biology, Iowa State University, IA) (CITATION). We also obtained a knockout mutant for ATG5 (atg5-1/SAIL_129_B0) and two for ATG7 (atg7-2/GABI_655B06 and atg7-3/SAIL_11_H07). These atg mutants were first spray-inoculated with Botrytis and compared for disease symptoms and pathogen growth relative to wild-type and wrky33 mutant plants. In spray-inoculated wild-type plants, Botrytis infection caused small necrotic spots and chlorosis that did not spread significantly to cause extensive tissue damage (Figure 7a and S3). As a result, the majority of leaves from the wild-type plants remained green at 4 dpi. In the wrky33 mutant, the necrotic spots and chlorosis spread rapidly, and the majority of leaves were macerated at 4 dpi (Figure 7a and S3). In spray-inoculated atg mutants, the necrotrophic spots and particularly chlorosis spread rapidly (Figure 7a and S3). At 4 dpi, extensive chlorosis was observed in all atg mutants compared with wild-type plants (Figure 7a and S3). The extent of leaf maceration in the atg mutants, although more severe than that of wild-type, was significant less than that of the wrky33 mutant. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether enhanced disease symptoms were correlated with increased pathogen growth in the atg mutants, we analyzed accumulation of the Botrytis ActinA (BcActA) gene transcript as a measure of fungal growth in inoculated plants. The transcript levels of the constitutively expressed BcActA gene correlated with fungal biomass (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from infected plants at 4 dpi, blotted and probed with the BcActA gene (CITATION). As previously reported, substantially higher levels of the fungal BcActA gene transcript were detected in wrky33 mutant plants than in wild-type plants after Botrytis infection (Figure 7b) (CITATION). The atg mutant plants also had increased BcActA gene transcript levels relative to wild-type plants, although the increase was lower than in the wrky33 mutant plants (Figure 7b). Thus, both symptom development and growth of the fungus confirm that the atg mutant plants are more susceptible to Botrytis. The atg and wrky33 mutants were also compared with wild-type plants for response to A. brassicicola, a necrotrophic fungal pathogen that causes black spot disease on cruciferous plants. Inoculation of wild-type plants with fungal spores (5 × 105 spores ml−1) led to formation of disease lesions that were largely restricted to the inoculation site, an indication that the wild-type plants are quite resistant to the fungal pathogen (Figure 8a). In wrky33 mutant plants, inoculation with the fungal pathogen resulted in increased disease symptoms, characterized by large lesions surrounded by extensive chlorosis (Figure 8a). In addition, the fungus produced approximately three times more fungal spores in mutant plants than in wild-type plants. In the atg mutant leaves, inoculation of the fungal pathogen also resulted in increased disease symptoms, as indicated by rapid extension of chlorosis (Figure 8a). In addition, there was a two to threefold increase in the numbers of spores in the atg mutants compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 8b). Thus, the atg mutants were also hyper-susceptible to A. brassicicola. [[FIGURE]] To further compare the atg and wrky33 mutants with wild-type for response to Botrytis, we stained inoculated leaves with trypan blue, a dye that is excluded by living cells but not dead cells. As shown in Figure 9, only the vascular tissues of leaves were stained in wild-type, wrky33 and atg18a mutant plants before inoculation. At 1 dpi, we observed stained cells in the lesion areas in the wild-type, and, to a significantly greater extent, in wrky33 and atg18a mutant plants (Figure 9). Over time, the stained areas increased slowly in the wild-type but rapidly in the wrky33 and atg18a mutant plants (Figure 9). Thus, Botrytis-induced cell death is correlated with symptom development among wild-type, wrky33 and atg18a mutants. [[FIGURE]] To explore the molecular basis of the altered responses of the autophagy mutants to necrotrophic pathogens, we analyzed the expression of defense-related genes in these plants after Botrytis infection. Jasmonic acid (JA)-mediated defense plays an important role in regulating the expression of plant defense genes and resistance to necrotrophic pathogens. To determine whether altered responses of autophagy mutants to necrotrophic pathogens are related to altered JA-mediated defense mechanisms, we examined the expression of the JA-regulated PDF1.2 defensin gene after Botrytis infection. PDF1.2 expression is strongly induced in wild-type plants in response to Botrytis infection, but its induction is significantly reduced in wrky33 mutants as previously reported (Figure 10a) (CITATION). In contrast to uninfected wild-type and wrky33 mutant plants in which no PDF1.2 transcript was detected by RNA blotting, there were significant basal levels of PDF1.2 transcripts in uninfected atg5, atg7 and atg18a mutants, which disappeared in mock-inoculated plants (Figure 10a). Despite increased basal expression, induced expression of PDF1.2 in the atg mutants was significantly reduced after Botrytis infection compared to that in wild-type (Figure 10a). There was a substantial reduction in PDF1.2 transcript levels in atg mutants relative to those in wild-type plants at 3 and 4 dpi (Figure 10a). Thus results indicate that autophagy has contrasting roles in the regulation of JA-regulated PDF1.2, suppressing its basal expression in healthy plants but positively modulating its induction in pathogen-infected plants. [[FIGURE]] While important in defense against biotrophic pathogen, SA signaling can antagonize JA-mediated defense responses to necrotrophic pathogens. SA-mediated defense mechanisms are associated with expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, including PR1 which is often used as a reliable molecular marker for SA-dependent defense responses (CITATION; CITATION). As previously observed, enhanced expression of PR1 was found in the wrky33 mutant after infection by Botrytis compared with that in wild-type plants (Figure 10a) (CITATION). In the atg mutants, we observed high basal levels of PR1 transcripts, which were again reduced in mock-inoculated plants. After Botrytis inoculation, there was enhanced expression of PR1 in the atg mutants compared with that in wild-type (Figure 10a). In fact, the transcript levels of PR1 in Botrytis-infected atg mutants were generally even higher than those in the wrky33 mutant at 2, 3 and 4 dpi (Figure 10a). These results suggest that expression of PR1 is negatively regulated by autophagy. Increased expression of SA-regulated PR1 in the atg mutant raised the possibility that the decreased level of transcripts of JA-regulated PDF1.2 might be due to suppression by increased SA biosynthesis or signaling in Botrytis-infected atg mutants. To examine this possibility, we generated an atg5-1 sid2 double mutant and compared it with both the wild-type and the atg5-1 single mutant with respect to Botrytis-induced PDF1.2 gene expression. As shown in Figure 10(b), there was a substantial reduction in PDF1.2 transcript levels in the atg5-1 sid2 double mutants relative to wild-type plants at 2–4 dpi. Therefore, decreased expression of PDF1.2 in the atg mutant is not due to increased SA biosynthesis or signaling. Necrotrophic pathogens kill host cells to extract nutrients for their growth and reproduction (CITATION). As a pathway for degradation of cytoplasmic components, authophagy plays an important role in recycling of nutrients during starvation. Therefore, it was expected that induced autophagy upon necrotrophic pathogen infection would result in increased degradation of cytoplasmic components, leading to increased availability of nutrients for invading pathogens. However, this proposal is not consistent with the increased susceptibility of atg mutants to necrotrophic pathogens. To determine whether the unexpected phenotypes of the atg mutants are associated with changes in cytoplasmic components, we assessed the change in total soluble protein contents in wild-type and atg mutants after infection with Botrytis. The most abundant soluble protein in plant leaves is the large subunit of Rubisco (RBCL), which was present at similar levels in uninfected wild-type, atg and wrky33 mutant plants (Figure 11). At 2 dpi, the RBCL levels were significantly reduced in wild-type and atg mutant plants. After this initial reduction, there was no further reduction in RBCL levels at 3 and 4 dpi in infected wild-type leaves (Figure 11). However, there was a continuing reduction in RBCL levels at 3 and 4 dpi in infected atg and wrky33 mutant plants (Figure 11). In fact, by 4 dpi, RBCL was no longer the most abundant protein in infected atg and wrky33 mutant plants. Thus, in autophagy-defective mutants, breakdown of at least some proteins is actually accelerated after infection with necrotrophic pathogen. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis mutants and wild-type plants used in this study are all in the Columbia genetic background. The mutants are atg5-1 (CITATION), atg7-2 (GABI_655B06), atg7-3 (SAIL_11_H07), atg18a-1 (GABI_651D08), sid2 (SALK_133146) and wrky33-2. Homozygous mutant plants were identified by PCR using pairs of primers corresponding to sequences flanking the T-DNA insertions (Table S2). The atg5-1 sid2 double mutant was generated by genetic crossing. The RNAi-ATG18a transgenic line with reduced ATG18a expression has been described previously (CITATION). Procedures for growing plants for the various assays and growth conditions were as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown on soil under fluorescent lights (120 μE m−2 per second) at 22 ± 4°C with 60% relative humidity and a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle. WRKY33-interacting proteins were identified using a Gal4-based two-hybrid system as described by the manufacturer (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/). The Arabidopsis HybridZAP-2.1 two-hybrid cDNA library was prepared from Arabidopsis plants harvested 4 h after spraying with 2 mm SA (CITATION). DNA fragments corresponding to full-length or partial WRKY33 proteins were amplified by PCR and confirmed by sequencing. The fragments were inserted into the pBD-Gal4Cam plasmid to generate bait plasmids. The HybridZAP cDNA library and corresponding bait plasmids were used to transform yeast strain YRG-2. Yeast transformants were plated onto selection medium lacking Trp, Leu and His. β-galactosidase activity was assayed using ONPG (o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranose) as substrate. Plasmid DNA was recovered from positive yeast colonies, transformed into E. coli strain DH5α, and isolated for DNA sequencing. DNA sequences for the N-terminal 173 amino acid YFP (N-YFP) and the C-terminal 64 amino acid YFP (C-YFP) fragments were PCR-amplified and cloned into plasmid pFGC5941 to generate plasmids pFGC-N-YFP and pFGC-C-YFP, respectively (CITATION). The WRKY33 and WRKY48 coding sequences were inserted into pFGC-N-YFP to generate N-terminal in-frame fusions with N-YFP, and ATG18a was introduced into pFGC-C-YFP to generate C-terminal in-frame fusions with C-YFP. The resulting clones were verified by sequencing. The plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101), and infiltration of N. benthamiana was performed as described previously (CITATION). Infected tissues were analyzed at approximately 24 h after infiltration. Fluorescence and DAPI staining were visualized using a Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/) and images were superimposed using zeiss lsm710 software. Full-length WRKY33 cDNA was PCR-amplified and fused with the TAP tag as previously described (CITATION). The WRKY33–TAP construct was then sub-cloned into plant transformation vector pOCA28 behind the WRKY33 promoter, which was PCR-amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using primers 5′-ATCAAGCTTCCACATATCGTGCAATAAGAAACT-3′ and 5′-ATCGAGCTCACGAAAAATGGAAGTTTGTTTTATAAAAGA-3′. Arabidopsis transformation was performed using the floral-dip procedure (CITATION), and transformants were identified by screening for kanamycin resistance. Independent transformants with inducible expression of TAP-tagged WRKY33 were identified by Northern and Western blotting. Of these transformants, those with a single copy of the T-DNA insertion (based on 3:1 segregation of antibiotic resistance in T2 progeny) were isolated, and homozygous transgenic plants were further identified in the progeny based on segregation of antibiotic resistance. For immunoprecipitation experiments, we used Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of ATG18a–C-YFP or C-YFP in the transgenic WRKY33–TAP Arabidopsis plants. The transient expression experiments by agroinfiltration of leaves were performed as previously described (CITATION). Infiltration induced expression of the WRKY33–TAP transgene under the control of the native WRKY33 promoter based on the results of both Northern and Western blotting. The infiltrated leaves were collected 24 h later, and protein complexes were purified as previously described for EDS1–TAP and PAD4–TAP complexes (CITATION). The protein complexes were eluted and fractionated by 12.5% SDS–PAGE, and ATG18a–C-YFP was detected using anti-YFP antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., http://www.scbt.com). Botrytis cinerea strain BO5-10 and Alternaria brassicicola strain MUCL20297 were cultured on 2 × V8 agar (36% V8 juice [Campbell Soup Company, http://www.v8juice.com], 0.2% CaCO3, 2% Bacto-agar [Becton Dickinson, http://www.bd.com]) and incubated at room temperature. Collection of B. cinerea conidia and inoculation were performed as described previously (CITATION). Conidia were resuspended in 1% Difco™ Sabouraud maltose broth (SMB) buffer (Becton Dickinson) before inoculation. A. brassicicola spores were resuspended in distilled water for inoculation. All Botrytis disease assays were performed on soil-grown plants by spray inoculation. The disease assay for A. brassicicola was performed on detached leaves by drop inoculation of a single 5 μl droplet of A. brassicicola spore suspension (5 × 105 spores ml−1) in water onto each leaf. Inoculated plants were kept under a transparent cover to maintain high humidity. Arabidopsis ATG18a full-length cDNA was PCR-amplified using gene-specific primers 5′-ATCGAGCTCATGGCCACCGTATCTTCTTCCTCCTGGCCAAACCCCAACCCTAATCCCGA-3′ and 5′-ATCTTCTAGAGAAAACTGAAGGCGGTTTCAGA-3′, and fused to a GFP gene. The ATG18a–GFP fusion gene was sub-cloned under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector. The fusion construct was introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed using the floral-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were identified on the basis of hygromycin resistance, and confirmed by RNA blotting using a GFP DNA fragment as probe. We used both GFP–ATG8a and LysoTracker Green for visualization of induction of autophagy. The GFP–ATG8a fusion construct was introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed using the floral-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were identified on the basis of kanamycin resistance, and confirmed by RNA blotting using the GFP DNA fragment as a probe. Homozygous T2 transformants were used in the studies. For visualization of induction of autophagy using LysoTracker Green, Arabidopsis leaves were vacuum-infiltrated with 1 μm of the fluorescence dye DND-26 (Molecular Probes, http://www.invitrogen.com). Fluorescence was visualized using a Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope with excitation at 488 nm, and images were superimposed using zeiss lsm710 software. Trypan blue staining of Arabidopsis leaves was performed as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from leaves as described previously (CITATION). For RNA gel-blot analysis, total RNA (approximately 6 μg) was separated on 1.2% agarose/formaldehyde gels and blotted onto nylon membranes according to standard procedures. Blots were hybridized with 32P-dATP-labeled gene-specific probes. Hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb plus hybridization buffer (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) overnight at 68°C. The membrane was then washed twice for 15 min each using 2 × SSC (1 × SSC is 0.15 m NaCl and 0.015 m sodium citrate) and 1% SDS, and for 10 min with 0.1 × SSC and 1% SDS at 68°C. For determination of Botrytis growth in inoculated plants, the B. cinerea ActinA gene (CITATION) was amplified from B. cinerea genomic DNA and used as a template for random prime labeling. Fungal genomic DNA was extracted from B. cinerea mycelium tissue grown on 2 × V8 medium as described previously (CITATION). The probes used in RNA gel blotting were as follows: ATG5, an approximately 624 nucleotide fragment obtained by EcoRI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U50285) obtained from the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR); ATG6, an approximately 758 nucleotide fragment obtained by EcoRI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U12843) obtained from TAIR; ATG7, an approximately 788 nucleotide fragment obtained by EcoRI/XhoI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U09954) obtained from TAIR; ATG8a, an approximately 334 nucleotide fragment obtained by XhoI/SalI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U15641) obtained from TAIR; ATG9, an approximately 1381 nucleotide fragment obtained by BamHI/BglII digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U24653) obtained from TAIR; ATG10, an approximately 657 nucleotide fragment obtained by EcoRI/BamHI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U18761) obtained from TAIR; ATG18a, an approximately 1299 nucleotide fragment amplified from a full-length cDNA clone isolated from a cDNA library in the ZAP Express λ vector (Stratagene) using ATG18a-specific primers 5′-ATCGAGCTCATGGCCACCGTATCTTCTTCCTCCTGGCCAAACCCCAACCCTAATCCCGA-3′ and 5′-ATCTTCTAGAGAAAACTGAAGGCGGTTTCAGA-3′; PDF1.2, an approximately 438 nucleotide fragment amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using PDF1.2-specific primers 5′-AATAATCATCATGGCTAAGTTTGCT-3′ and 5′-TATTGTAACAACAACGGGAAAA-3′; PR1, an approximately 486 nucleotide fragment obtained by EcoRI/NotI digestion of a full-length cDNA clone (U11550) obtained from TAIR. Total protein was isolated from liquid-grown or soil-grown plants by homogenization in 2:1 v/w SDS–PAGE sample buffer (125 mm Tris/HCl, pH 6.8, 5% SDS, 20% glycerol and 10% 2-mercaptoethanol), and extracts were clarified by low-speed centrifugation at 16 000 g. Proteins were subjected to SDS–PAGE and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue as previously described (CITATION). Sequence data for the genes described in this study can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the accession numbers shown in parentheses: WRKY33 (At2g38470), ATG5 (At5g17290), ATG6 (At3g61710), ATG7 (At5g45900), ATG8a (AT4G21980), ATG9 (At2g31260), ATG10 (At3g07525), ATG18a (At3g62770), PDF1.2 (AT5G44420), PR1 (AT2G14610) and SID2 (At1g74710).
