!~ABS~! Plant membranes bear a variety of transporters belonging to multigene families that are affected by environmental and nutritional conditions. In addition, they often display high‐sequence identity, making difficult in‐depth investigation by current shot‐gun strategies. In this study, we set up a targeted proteomics approach aimed at identifying and quantifying within single experiments the five major proton pumps of the autoinhibited H+ATPases (AHA) family, the 13 plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIP) water channels (PIPs), and ten members of ammonium transporters (AMTs) and nitrate transporter (NRT) families. Proteotypic peptides were selected and isotopically labeled heavy versions were used for technical optimization and for quantification of the corresponding light version in biological samples. This approach allowed to quantify simultaneously nine PIPs in leaf membranes and 13 PIPs together with three autoinhibited H+ATPases, two ammonium transporters, and two NRTs in root membranes. Similarly, it was used to investigate the effect of a salt stress on the expression of these latter 20 transporters in roots. These novel isoform‐specific data were compared with published transcriptome information and revealed a close correlation between PIP isoforms and transcripts levels. The obtained resource is reusable and can be expanded to other transporter families for large‐scale profiling of membrane transporters. 
!~RES~! In plants, the AHA subfamily of P‐type ATPases corresponds to primary transporters CITATION, located at the plasma membrane where they create a proton electrochemical gradient which is further dissipated by secondary active transporters CITATION. Among the eleven isoforms present in Arabidopsis, we selected the five isoforms AHA1–AHA5 that include the major isoforms and are all expressed both in root and in leaf CITATION. Aquaporins constitute another main family of transporters of which the subfamily of PIPs corresponds to the water channels located at the plasma membrane CITATION. It includes 13 members, classified into two subgroups that are expressed as well in root as in leaf CITATION and the 13 isoforms were selected. Nitrogen is a macro‐nutrient for plant that is accumulated either as nitrate or as ammonium by secondary active transporters. The two families of nitrate transporters, NRT1 and NRT2, encompass 53 and 7 genes, respectively, in Arabidopsis CITATION. Two members of each family, including those the best characterized to date, were selected (NRT1;1, NRT1;4, NRT2;1, and NRT2;7) together with NRT3;1 that constitutes a putative partner of NRT2 proteins in nitrate transport CITATION. The AMT1 family of high‐affinity AMTs contains five members in Arabidopsis CITATION. These five genes that are mainly expressed in roots were selected. Figure 1 shows the work flow used for the simultaneous analysis of the 28 targeted transporters.  [[FIGURE]] In the first step, proteins of interest were submitted to in silico analysis in order to identify tryptic peptides unique in the whole Arabidopsis genome. An average of ten unique peptides was identified per transporter (Supporting Information Fig. 1). These 286 peptides were then screened for their predicted potential ion‐current response and chromatographic behavior. By setting a threshold of 0.2 for the ion‐current response predictor and fixing a retention time window compatible with a total duration of 1 h per run, 127 peptides were predicted to display favorable properties. Finally, these peptides were checked for the occurrence of the previously described post‐translational modification, such as phosphorylation CITATION, CITATION, CITATION or methylation CITATION. For a large proportion of accessions, this set of criteria resulted in a limited number of candidates (Supporting Information Fig. 1), whereas for some of them, like most AHAs, a quite large number of convenient peptides were identified, thus offering the additional possibility to target specific regions of the protein when desired. One proteotypic peptide fulfilling the criteria above could be chosen for every transporter, excepted for AMT1.1 for which a nonoptimal peptide was selected because all unique peptides of which were predicted to display weak responses or known to be susceptible to phosphorylation (Table 1).  Corresponding heavy forms of the 28 peptides were synthesized by labeling the C‐terminal amino acid, thus producing a mass increase of 8 Da for lysine‐labeled peptides and 10 Da for arginine‐labeled peptides. For each peptide, the three more intense transitions were selected for the identification in the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. In order to improve the sensitivity, ionization and fragmentation parameters (declustering potential, DP; collision energy, CE) were optimized for all transitions using a stepwise procedure and LC‐MS CITATION, CITATION as described in Section 2.6. For most peptides, the DP displayed a broad optimum that was identical or very close for the different transitions of a given peptide (Supporting Information Fig. 2A). Accordingly, a same optimal DP value was used for all transitions of a peptide. By contrast, for part of the peptides, the impact of CE on the signal differed depending on the transition (Supporting Information Fig. 2B). Thus, CE was taken as a transition‐dependent parameter and specific values were used for the transitions of a same peptide. However, for the peptide selected for AMT1;1, it was not possible to optimize three transitions in a robust way. This peptide was removed from the analysis and not replaced by another one due to unfavorable features of other AMT1;1 peptides (see above). Overall, these results are in fair agreement with conclusions raised for various other types of peptide sets of similar size, as well from soluble proteins CITATION, CITATION, CITATION as from membrane proteins CITATION.  The 27 peptides for which optimized conditions were available could be identified in a single run in the MRM mode when monitoring the 81 associated transitions (Supporting Information Fig. 3). As such, this indicated that the combination of predictors used for peptide selection was efficient enough to allow qualitative global analysis of most of the selected set of transporter isoforms. However, in the quantification perspective, another crucial feature is the matrix effect that affects the ionization yield of a given peptide in its environment when it is eluted from the LC into the mass spectrometer. No clear consensus emerged to date concerning this point CITATION, that is taken into account to various extents, from the simple spiking of a known amount of heavy peptide into the sample CITATION, CITATION to the production of dose–response curves in the biological matrix of interest CITATION, CITATION. In this study, this latter option was selected and dilution curves were obtained for each transition in a digest of Arabidopsis membrane peptides (Section 2.6 and Supporting Information Fig. 4). Subsequently, the linear regression curve having the highest slope was selected for the quantification of the corresponding peptide.  To date, immunodetection of PIP aquaporins is hampered by the high amino acid sequence identity and available antibodies usually do not allow to distinguish within the PIP1 and PIP2 groups of isoforms CITATION, CITATION. In a first trial of proof of concept, the above strategy was used to delineate the profile of PIP aquaporins in the leaves from 3‐wk‐old plants. Nine out the 13 Arabidopsis PIP isoforms could be identified in the leaf membranes as giving signal above the LOQ of the transition used for quantification. These included four and five, respectively, out the PIP1 and PIP2 groups (Fig. 2). The two isoforms PIP1;2 and PIP2;1, accounting each for one‐third of the total amount, appeared to be the major isoforms in the leaf, whereas PIP1;1, PIP1;5; PIP2;2, and PIP2;7 contributed collectively to one quarter of the total, the other detected PIPs constituting only minor isoforms. In terms of protein amount, major PIPs were present in the 100 pmol range per mg of microsomal membrane. Taking into account the molecular weight of PIPs, this indicated that PIPs accounted for ca. 3% of leaf membrane proteins. These data provide the first quantitative information available at the protein and isoform levels. Regarding the amount of PIPs, they are in agreement with the previous data, measuring their relative abundance from densitometric analysis of stained SDS‐PAGE profiles, and estimating that PIPs might constitute as high as 15% of purified plasma membrane proteins in spinach leaf CITATION. Concerning the isoforms, no comparable information is available at the protein level, but previous transcriptome analysis suggested that all PIP genes were expressed in leaves CITATION. The origin of this discrepancy is unknown but could reveal some disconnection between the accumulation of undetected isoforms and the corresponding transcripts. Alternatively, this could be linked to the difference in age of plants used in the two studies. However, it can be noticed that seven out of the nine isoforms reported here could also be identified by shotgun LC‐MS/MS analysis on similar samples (data not shown). These latter included notably the six more abundant isoforms according to MRM assays. Thus, collectively, these results converge to indicate that PIP1;1, PIP1;2, PIP1;5, PIP2;1, PIP2;2, and PIP2;7 are the main isoforms in young Arabidopsis leaves.  [[FIGURE]] Changes in the abiotic environment affect simultaneously the expression of different families of transporters in plants. To assess the capacity of the strategy above to address this issue, we selected a short salt stress to perform another methodological trial. Short NaCl treatment (100 mM) was previously shown to constitute a stress of mainly osmotic nature that affects as well the hydraulic conductivity of roots as the accumulation of PIP transcripts CITATION. Under similar conditions, both some AHA and NRT are also affected at short term by a slightly weaker stress (80 mM NaCl), but were reported to be even more altered at longer term CITATION. Therefore, we imposed a stronger stress (150 mM NaCl) for a short period and compared the AHA, AMT, NRT, and PIP profiles in roots (Fig. 3A and B).  [[FIGURE]] Among the five AHA isoforms tested, AHA1, AHA2, and AHA 5 were detected (but not AHA3 and AHA4) and only AHA2 appeared to constitute a major protein in the membrane. For secondary active transporters, among AMTs, both AMT1;3 and AMT1;4 were identified, but not AMT1;2 and AMT1;5. Similarly, for nitrate transporters, only one low‐affinity transporter, NRT1;1, and one high‐affinity transporter, NRT2;1, were observed, but not NRT1;4 and NRT2;7, nor the putative NRT2 regulator NRT3;1. Concerning the PIPs, all isoforms could be detected in the root. Three of them, PIP1;1, PIP1;2, and PIP2;2 dominated the profile and accounted for nearly the three quarters of the total amount, whereas PIP1;3, PIP2;1, PIP2;4, and PIP2;7 showed intermediate abundance. At the same time, for each family, the isoforms assumed to be the most expressed in root membranes were actually found at high level CITATION, CITATION. Collectively, present data suggest that the PIP aquaporins are by far the most abundant integral proteins in roots (at least among the transporter families studied here), being accumulated at more than five times higher level than primary transporters, whereas secondary active transporters constitute minor proteins. In addition, they show that the present strategy has the capacity to characterize transporters differing by nearly three orders of magnitude in terms of abundance. Regarding not detected transporters, at the exception of NRT2;7, for all others, available annotation (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) indicates that the genes were previously found expressed in roots. The origin of this discrepancy is not clear and could be associated as well to differences in culture conditions as to a poor connexion between transcript and protein accumulation for some isoforms of proton pumps and ammonium or nitrate transporters. In addition, it should be pointed out that crude membrane fractions (obtained by differential centrifugation) were used here and that some minor isoforms might become detectable only when using highly purified plasma membrane fractions.  As shown in Fig. 3, a 4‐h salt stress induced a significant decrease in the amount of AHA1, NRT1;1, and several PIPs, notably the more abundant ones. This decrease ranged between 30 and 70%, in an isoform‐dependent way. Although none of these isoforms is involved in sodium or chloride transport, this situation is not unexpected. Actually, global comparative transcriptome analysis using microarrays CITATION previously indicated that the AHA1 and AHA2 transcripts were downaccumulated in roots after a weaker but slightly longer stress (5 h of exposure to 80 mM NaCl) compared with that imposed in the present study. Although only the amount of the AHA1 isoform is observed here to decrease significantly in response to salt stress, it can be noticed that a similar but not significant (p=0.07) tendency was also observed for the AHA2 isoform. In addition, nearly all PIP transcripts were reported to be downaccumulated by short salt stress CITATION, CITATION, in close agreement with our results, and Western blot data using subfamily‐specific antibodies also indicated a decrease in the protein amount CITATION. Thus, as no information is available regarding the NRT1;1 transcript CITATION, the changes measured here at the protein level appear to be globally in qualitative accordance with those reported for transcripts, excepted possibly for nitrate transporters. However, in this technological study, focus was given to the simultaneous analysis of several transporters but with limited effort on biological conditions and replicates. Thus, present data must be taken primarily as illustrating the capacity of the approach and remain to be corroborated by thorough time course analysis prior to derive working hypothesis.  It was shown for long time that a more or less pronounced disconnection may exist between protein and transcript accumulation levels although rarely assessed in plants CITATION. As quantitative protein information could be raised here for all the 13 members of the PIP subfamily in root, a comparison was tempted with data published at the transcript level for plants cultivated under similar conditions CITATION. Figure 4 shows that an overall high correlation (r2=0.90) did exist between the abundance of isoforms as measured by targeted proteomics and published PIP transcript levels in root. The main exception concerned the PIP2;4 isoform that was roughly ten times more abundant than other PIPs showing similar transcript accumulation. As PIP2;4 transcripts were also shown to be minor PIP transcripts in other studies using plants of different ages CITATION, CITATION, the origin of this discrepancy is unclear but likely not related to the plant developmental status. In addition, when excluding PIP2;4 from the comparison, the correlation coefficient was calculated as 0.97. Thus, overall and at the possible exception of PIP2;4, this comparison suggested for all other PIP isoforms a very good correlation between gene expression and protein accumulation in root that remains, however, to be confirmed by simultaneous transcriptome and proteome analysis on the same samples.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For the obtention of leaves from 3‐wk‐old Arabidopsis plants (Col 0 ecotype), seedlings were cultured in vitro for 10 days and further transplanted into hydroponic culture as described previously CITATION. Root material was obtained from plants sowed and grown under hydroponic conditions for 7 wk CITATION with NH4NO3 as nitrogen source. Salt stress was imposed by transferring plants for 4 h in an hydroponic solution complemented or not with 150 mM NaCl.  After tissue grinding, microsomes were obtained by differential centrifugation (26 000×g×30 min, 51 000×g×25 min) and resuspended in 10 mM Tris‐borate buffer (pH 8.3) containing 300 mM sucrose, 9 mM KCl, 5 mM EDTA, 5 mM EGTA, 50 mM NaF, 5 mM DTT, 0.004 mM leupeptin, and 1 mM PMSF. Peripheral and adsorbed proteins were stripped by resuspending the pellet first in a buffer containing 4 M urea and then complemented with 20 mM NaOH CITATION. Proteins were assayed according to Bradford CITATION and resuspended in Laemmli buffer CITATION.  All subsequent steps up to the obtention of the protein digest followed the Filter‐Aided Sample Preparation procedure of Wisniewski et al. CITATION with some modifications. For root and leaf, respectively, 0.6 and 0.3 mg of microsome proteins were used. Throughout the procedure, Microcon 30 kD devices (Millipore®), 0.1 M Tris‐HCl buffer (pH 8.5) containing 8 M urea, and 14 000×g centrifugation (3 min) were used. Briefly, SDS was first eliminated by dilution in the buffer, followed by centrifugation and resuspension (three times). Proteins were reduced by 10 mM DTT in the same buffer (1 h; 37°C), centrifuged, and washed three times. Alkylation was achieved using 50 mM iodoacetamide in the buffer above (30 min; 37°C), centrifuged, and washed three times. After two other washings with 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate, proteins were finally digested in two steps, first with endoproteinase Lys‐C (Promega) at an enzyme‐to‐protein ratio of 1:50 (3 h; 37°C), then, after addition of 10 mM CaCl2, with trypsin (Promega) under identical but overnight conditions. Peptides were collected by centrifugation at 14 000×g for 6 min and the filter device was washed first with 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate, then with 50% ACN (twice), and finally with 0.5 M NaCl. The combined filtrates were concentrated under vacuum for 30 min, then acidified with 10% TFA, and desalted by reverse‐phase chromatography (Sep‐Pak®, Waters). Elution of peptides was performed with 2% formic acid in 80% ACN. Finally, peptides were dried under vacuum and resuspended in 0.1% formic acid. They were assayed using the BCA kit (Thermo®) and BSA as standard.  The whole Arabidopsis genome (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) was trypsin digested in silico using the Proteogest program (www.utoronto.ca/emililab/proteogest.htm) and peptides corresponding to the selected accessions were screened using a locally written script for their uniqueness in the genome. These peptides were evaluated for their potential ion‐current response using the Enhanced Signature Peptide (ESP) predictor CITATION and compared for their predicted retention time on reverse‐phase nano‐columns using the Sequence‐Specific Retention Calculator CITATION. Finally, the resulting peptides were manually checked for the occurrence of previously described post‐translational modification. Labeled forms of the selected peptides were chemically synthesized in a heavy form incorporating [13C6,15N2]‐lysine or [13C6,15N4]‐arginine in their C‐terminus and distributed into known amounts according to their amino acid analysis (Sigma‐Aldrich). Each lyophilized synthetic peptide was reconstituted in 0.1% formic acid and a mixture of all the labeled peptides in appropriate relative amounts was made as a stock solution.  LC‐MS analysis was performed using an Agilent 1200 nano‐flow HPLC coupled to a 4000 QTRAP LC‐MS/MS hybrid triple quadrupole/linear ion trap mass spectrometer using a microSpray source (AB/MDS Sciex). The instrument was operated in positive ion mode and controlled by the Analyst 1.5.1 software (Applied Biosystems). Samples were preconcentrated using a cartridge trap column (Agilent Zorbax 300 SB‐C18; 0.3 mm id, 5 mm length, 5 μm particles) and separated on a nano‐flow reversed‐phase column (Agilent Zorbax 300 SB‐C18; 0.075 mm id, 150 mm length, 3.5 μm particles) eluted with a linear gradient from 17 to 25% acetonitrile in 0.1% formic acid (32 min; 400 nL/min). All acquisition methods used the following parameters: 2500 V ion spray voltage, 20 psi curtain gas, 150°C interface heater temperature, collision‐activated dissociation pressure set on high, and Q1 and Q3 set to unit resolution (0.6–0.8 Da full width at half‐height).  For each peptide, three transitions, chosen according to their relative intensity and m/z greater than the precursor m/z, were selected CITATION. Collision energy (CE) and declustering potential (DP) were optimized for maximum sensitivity of each transition directly with the mixture of all peptide standards in nanoLC‐MS/MS CITATION. For the DP, 20 V steps ranging between 60 and 140 V were used. For the CE, predicted values were first calculated according to the published equations CITATION for (M+2H+) ions (CE=0.044×m/z+5.5), and (M+3H+) ions (CE=0.051×m/z+0.55), and 5 eV steps centered on these values were used. Thereafter, identical DP and CE values were used for each light/heavy pair. A dwell time of 20–50 ms was used for different peptides based on their ionization. In all runs, the cycle time allowed a minimum of 12 data points collected per peak.  Biological samples (600 ng) were spiked with a known amount of labeled peptides and analyzed in triplicate. The signal of heavy peptides was used to assess the stability of the system and only runs displaying an average variation coefficient lower than 20% over the entire set of runs were taken into account. Identification of natural peptides was based on the observation of the three light transitions at identical retention time. For each peptide, the most responding transition was used for quantification, the two others enabling to qualify the peptide. After automatic detection using the Analyst software, all data were manually inspected to ensure correct peak detection and accurate integration of peak area. Dilution curves for heavy peptides were obtained from triplicate runs of the mixture of labeled peptides diluted to different extent in 600 ng of a microsome digest. Limits of detection (LOD) and limits of quantification (LOQ) were computed for each transition using least‐squares regression CITATION. 
