!~ABS~! The plasma membrane (PM) serves as the point of contact between cells and the outside environment. As such, changes in the PM proteome are an important component of understanding cellular responses to a diverse array of stimuli. However, intricate sample handling to enrich PM proteomes by traditional methods is both technically challenging and time consuming. Here, we describe a simplified method for decreasing the representation of other membrane‐containing organelles such as the endoplasmic reticulum, plastids and mitochondria from crude microsomal membrane isolations. The decrease in other organellar proteomes results in an increase in both the total number of PM proteins and the number of spectra identified from these proteins representing the PM proteome. Therefore, this strategy represents a simple and rapid method for enriching PM proteins from Arabidopsis cell cultures for proteomic analyses. 
!~RES~! In addition to PM proteins, crude microsomal preparations also contain other organellar constituents such as those from the ER, mitochondria (MI) and chloroplasts. We questioned whether the heterogeneity of the sample reflected similar densities of vesicles co‐isolating during ultracentrifugation or if these organelles may become trapped in the PM vesicles during cellular disruption. If the latter was true, we reasoned that the non‐ionic detergent Brij‐58, which inverts PM vesicles CITATION, might release the contaminating structures producing a simplified method for analyzing enriched PM proteomes.  To explore if Brij‐58 treatment of crude microsomal membranes may assist in increasing the representation of PM proteins, we performed a comparative experiment using the strategy outlined in Fig. 1. After disrupting cells by freezing in liquid nitrogen and grinding with a mortar and pestle, the homogenate was pre‐cleared by centrifugation at 10 000×g followed by ultracentrifugation of the supernatant at 100 000×g to collect the CM pellet. A portion of this CM was resuspended in homogenization buffer containing Brij‐58 to invert membrane vesicles. After ultracentrifugation to re‐collect the membranes, sodium carbonate was used to wash loosely bound membrane‐associated proteins followed by another round of ultracentrifugation. The resulting pellet is hereafter referred to as the PM pellet.  [[FIGURE]] As an initial test of this strategy for enriching PM proteins, we performed immunoblot analyses using equal amounts of protein from the soluble fraction of first ultracentrifugation (Cyto), the CM fraction and the PM fraction (Fig. 2A). The AHAs, integral PM H+‐ATPases, were strongly enriched in the PM as compared to the CM or cytosolic fractions. Conversely, SMT‐1, an integral ER membrane protein, was strongly enriched in the CM fraction but depleted in the PM fraction. AOX1/2, a mitochondrial inner membrane protein, was present in all three fractions but with higher levels in the CM than the PM fraction. These results demonstrated that, at least for the markers used, the PM isolation enriched for PM proteins over ER or mitochondrial proteins. To further test the enrichment effect of PM fraction, we used “digital immunoblotting” (i.e. MS) to look at a wider range of protein markers.  [[FIGURE]] Equivalent amounts of protein from PM or CM fractions were separated by SDS‐PAGE. Each lane was cut into eight slices, and peptides were recovered following in‐gel digestion. Proteins were considered identified based on 99% protein identification confidence with 95% confidence level for the minimum of two peptides. As an initial analysis of whether the LC‐MS/MS data supported the immunoblot data for PM enrichment, we found that the unweighted spectral counts for the PM marker (AHA1) showed clear enrichment in the PM fraction (Fig. 2B), confirming the immunoblot results and supporting the validity of using spectral counting for these comparisons. Similarly, a number of other PM proteins such as the ABC transporter, PDR8/PEN3 CITATION, were enriched in the PM over the CM fractions. Conversely, ER marker proteins such as BiP and calnexin were substantially depleted in the PM versus the CM fractions. As these initial results clearly demonstrated the ability of this fractionation strategy to enrich for PM over ER proteins, we next initiated a broader analysis to determine the compartmental representation of proteins in these fractions.  For many proteins, assigning a definitive cellular compartment is a difficult task because of the limitations in accurate predictions and lack of experimental evidence for large portions of the predicted plant proteome. Moreover, many proteins may actually reside in multiple cellular compartments. As a simplified strategy for assigning predicted protein locations, we used assignments based on SUBA predictions (http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/suba2/). We selected SUBA because it houses ten algorithmic predictors and five experimental predictors in one integrated system specifically built for the Arabidopsis genome CITATION. For comparisons of organellar representation in each fraction in this study, we considered only proteins for which the total number of predicted locations exceeded any other predicted locations (i.e. we removed from the comparisons all proteins for which multiple locations were equally predicted).  As a point of reference, we used these criteria to examine the predicted TAIR9 proteome. Using these parameters, SUBA assigned “exclusive” locations to 7041 of the predicted 33 410 proteins (Table 1). Therefore, these criteria are somewhat restrictive as only 21% of the possible proteome can be assigned. However, this strategy eliminates user bias that can occur during manual assignment of location.  Three independent biological isolations were prepared as described for the initial analysis and analyzed by LC‐MS/MS. In each of the three experiments, over 50% of the proteins were identified in both CM and PM fractions with the remaining identified proteins being split between the two methods (Fig. 3). The differences in total numbers of proteins identified in each biological replica were mainly due to different sample loadings of protein, which ranged from 35 to 50 μg. The number of proteins identified by each fractionation strategy (CM versus PM) within a biological replica was equivalent (Fig. 4A), indicating equal protein sampling.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As an initial analysis, we qualitatively examined the fractionation methods to determine the number PM versus ER proteins identified by each method. As shown in Fig. 4A, the average number of PM proteins found in PM fraction is 1.55‐fold higher than that in the CM fraction. Conversely, the average number of ER proteins found in PM pellet is 0.67‐fold of that in CM pellet. Therefore, enriching for the PM fraction identified 55% more PM proteins while depleting ER proteins 33% as compared to the CM fraction. In regards to the total numbers of proteins listed in Fig. 4A, it should be noted that based on our criteria for assigning location, only 398 proteins from the entire Arabidopsis predicted proteome would be classified as present exclusively at the PM (Table 1). Therefore, the number of PM proteins identified in the PM fraction of Biological Experiment 1, for instance, actually represents ∼25% of all possible PM proteins predicted by these criteria. We interpret these results as a demonstration that the enrichment process for PM proteins is effective, but the absolute numbers as listed are likely an underestimation of the real number of PM and/or ER proteins in each fraction because of the limitations of using the SUBA criteria as the sole predictor. The overlap of PM‐exclusive proteins found in each biological experiment is shown in the Venn diagram (Fig. 4B). There was >60% overlap in PM proteins from all three biological isolations. Overlap between experiments and unique identifications associated largely with the total number of proteins identified in the particular experiment.  Qualitatively, we also examined these fractions for the presence of proteins predicted to be in other organelles. Based on the average of all three experiments, we found that the PM fraction enriched for proteins predicted to be localized in the cytoplasm (CY) and EX space while decreasing the number of proteins from vacuoles (VU), plastids (PL), MI and peroxisomes (Table 2; Supporting Information Table S1). Proteins from the nucleus (NU) were distributed relatively evenly between the two fractions. The enrichment of CY and EX proteins may reflect the presence of proteins tightly associated PM, in which case these proteins could be considered as an extension of the PM proteome.  The qualitative analysis revealed that a greater number of PM proteins were identified in the PM fraction. In addition, initial comparative experiments (Fig. 2) indicated that even if the same protein was identified in both fractions, the protein was more abundant in the PM than in the CM fraction. To determine if this observation was applicable for a larger population of proteins, we quantitatively compared the abundance of proteins assigned to specific compartments in Table 2 using spectral counting. To measure the enrichment profile of proteins in the PM fraction versus the CM fraction, we performed pair‐wise comparisons of spectral counts within each biological replica using log2 ratio as quantitative measurement. For these comparisons, proteins not identified in an experiment (i.e. having zero spectral counts) were assigned 0.2 to allow inclusion in the calculations. For each compartment, the calculated mean values of log2 from all three experiments are shown in Fig. 5. The label‐free quantitation showed more than a two‐fold increase of PM proteins in the PM fractions than in the CM fraction. Conversely, ER proteins were decreased by more than sixfold in the PM fraction. In general, the quantitative differences for other organellar compartments reflected the same patterns as seen for the qualitative comparisons (Table 2). However, particularly for the organelles depleted in the PM fraction, the quantitative results showed the effectiveness of the fractionation more clearly. For instance, whereas the qualitative comparison showed a slight depletion of MI in the PM fraction, the quantitative comparison showed a twofold depletion. Moreover, even though vacuolar proteins were qualitatively identified to an equal extent in both fractions, the abundance of vacuolar proteins actually was significantly less in the PM fraction. Therefore, the quantitative analysis further supports the ability of the simple, PM‐enrichment technique to increase the representation of PM, and possibly PM‐associated, proteins over proteins from other organelles.  [[FIGURE]] In previous experiments CITATION-CITATION, we analyzed PM phosphoproteomes by digesting peptides directly off the enriched PM vesicles. We were interested as to whether the present PM‐enrichment strategy could be used similarly to avoid a gel separation step. However, when we performed a trial analysis of in‐solution digested peptides, we did not observe the same enrichment of PM proteins, as the majority of proteins identified were ribosomal proteins (data not shown). Significant differences between the results from in‐solution versus in‐gel strategies were immediately obvious when plotting the total number of unique peptide spectra versus the molecular weight range of identified protein by each strategy (Fig. 6A). The in‐solution strategy was biased toward lower molecular weight proteins, which largely included the ribosomal proteins, whereas the in‐gel strategy showed a greater representation of proteins with MW>40 kDa (which is consistent with the fact that the low MW proteins were run off the 8% SDS‐PAGE gel). These results indicated that even in the PM‐enriched sample, the additional abundant proteins took up a large portion of the data acquisition time during LC‐MS/MS, thereby interfering with the identification of PM proteins. Thus, the in‐gel separation of proteins prior to sequencing is an important part of this procedure as it removes the bias these highly abundant, low MW proteins from other organelles cause in the LC‐MS/MS analysis.  [[FIGURE]] In general, the size selection of higher MW proteins actually appears to be advantageous when the goal is enriching for PM proteins. In analysis of the MW distribution of proteins from the major organellar compartments of interest in this study, namely the PM, ER, PL and MI (Fig. 6B), we noticed that the PM proteome is biased toward proteins of higher MW whereas the other organellar compartments that we set out to deplete are biased toward lower MW proteins. Clearly, the Brij‐58 and carbonate treatments also increase representation of PM proteins as the PM and CM fractions were gel separated side‐by‐side in this study; but this simple analysis also indicates that running SDS‐PAGE gels a bit longer to only digest and sequence proteins >30–40 kDa appears to be preferential for enriching for PM proteins as well. 
!~MM~! All chemicals were at least ultrapure grade (Sigma Chemical or Fisher Scientific). HPLC‐grade water was produced by a Millipore Synthesis system (Millipore, Billerica, MA). Sequencing‐grade‐modified Trypsin was purchased from Promega.  Suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg were maintained as previously described CITATION, CITATION. After collecting cells by filtration, cells were frozen with liquid nitrogen and ground to fine powder in a cold mortar. Proteins were extracted in 1 mL/g of fresh weight ice‐cold buffer H (330 mM sucrose, 50 mM HEPES/KOH pH 7.5, 50 mm Na4P2O7, 25 mm NaF, 5% glycerol, 0.5% polyvinyl pyrrolidone, 10 mm EDTA, 1 mM Na2MoO4, 1 mM PMSF, 10 μM leupeptin A, 1 nM calyculin A and 3 mM DTT). After clearing the homogenate of cell debris by centrifugation for 10 min at 10 000×g, 4°C, crude microsomes (CMs) were isolated from the supernatant by ultracentrifugation (30 min at 100 000×g, 4°C). Microsomal pellets were washed once with buffer H without DTT, and then incubated in 2 μL/μg of crude microsomal protein of buffer B (buffer H without DTT but with 0.02% w/v Brij‐58) on ice for 45 min. These CMs treated with buffer B were centrifuged again for 30 min at 100 000×g, and the resulting pellets were washed twice with 100 mM Na2CO3 (pH11–12) in buffer H without DTT to yield the PM‐enriched fraction.  PM and CM protein were solubilized in sample‐loading buffer heated to 75°C and separated by 8% SDS‐PAGE. After staining with colloidal Coomassie G‐250 overnight CITATION, gels were destained in water before dividing each lane into 8–9 gel slices with a razor blade. Proteins in resulting gel pieces (1 mm2 each) were reduced with 50 mM TCEP‐HCl at 65°C for 10 min. Extra TCEP‐HCL was discarded and gel pieces were washed using destaining buffer (50% ACN in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate). Reduced gel pieces were then submerged in alkylation buffer (50 mM iodoacetamide in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate) at room temperature in dark for 1 h. After discarding extra alkylation buffer, gel pieces were washed twice in destaining buffer, dehydrated by 100% ACN and speedvac for 5 min prior to trypsin digestion. Activated trypsin (in 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH=8.3) was then added to the dried gel pieces (1:20 w/w of trypsin:protein), and incubated at 37°C for at least 16 h. After digestion, peptides were eluted twice with 1% TFA with 60% ACN. The extracted peptide mixture was dried by lyophilization overnight. Dried peptides were stored at −80°C until LC‐MS/MS analysis.  Extracted proteins were resuspended in 100 μL/mg protein of 1% SDS with incubation at 65°C for 10 min. Insoluble pellet was discarded. Remaining proteins were diluted with 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 8.3) by ten folds. Diluted protein sample was then reduced with 100 mM TCEP‐HCl at 65°C for 10 min and alkylated with 150 mM iodoacetamide at room temperature in dark for 1 h. Activated trypsin (in 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH=8.3) was then added to the solution (1:50 w/w of trypsin:protein), and incubated at 37°C for at least 16 h. About 1 μL/mg of 0.1 mg/mL trypsin was added 1 h after incubation to maintain basic pH and sufficient enzyme for complete digestion. Prior to MS, peptide samples were lyophilized to dryness and desalted using ZipTip C18 to eliminate extra TCEP and iodoacetamide salts. Desalted peptide was then lyophilized and stored at −80°C till analysis.  Protein samples were separated by SDS‐PAGE and transferred to Immobilon P for 2 h at 70 V in Towbin's transfer buffer (39 mM Glycine, 48 mM Tris‐base, 0.037% SDS, and 20% methanol) at 4°C. Membranes were blocked with blocking buffer (5% non‐fat milk in TBS (pH 7.8) with 0.05% Tween‐20) for 1 h at room temperature prior to incubation with primary antibodies in blocking buffer at 4°C overnight. HRP‐labeled anti‐rabbit IgG (Sigma) was used as the secondary antibody in blocking buffer for 1 h at room temperature. Chemiluminescent detection was performed using Supersignal Femto or Pico substrate (Thermo Scientific). Primary antibodies: AHA (H+‐ATPase PM marker, Agrisera, Sweden), AOX1/2 (alternative oxidase isoforms 1/2, mitochondrial inner membrane marker, Agrisera), and SMT‐1 (sterol methyltransferase‐1, ER integral membrane marker, Agrisera). Ponceau‐S staining (0.1% w/v Ponceau‐S in 5% v/v acetic acid) or Coomassie Brilliant Blue R‐250 staining (0.1% w/v CBB R‐250 in 10% v/v acetic acid and 40% v/v methanol) was used either before or after antibody probing, respectively, to visualize levels of total protein on the membrane.  Lyophilized peptides were dissolved in 0.1% formic acid for MS analysis. Peptides were applied to a 10 cm prepacked column (Picotip, 75‐μm id, 15‐μm tip, New Objective, Woburn, MA) and eluted into the nanoelectrospray ion source of a LTQ‐Orbitrap LC‐MS/MS mass spectrometer (Thermoelectron) controlled by XCalibur version 2.2.1. A fully automated chromatography run was carried out with the mass spectrometer operating in data‐dependent mode. The buffer solutions used for chromatography were 0.1% formic acid (buffer A) and 100% ACN, 0.1% formic acid (buffer B) with a 1% per minute incremental gradient for the first 45 min and 11% per minute for the final 5 min. Survey scans covered the range 300–2000 m/z with a threshold of 3 microscan/s and a scan time of 1 s. For MS/MS spectra, the m/z range was 150–2500 with CID activation a scan time of 2 s. Charge state rejection was enabled for +1 with a peak detection window of 10 ppm. Dynamic exclusion was enabled with one count for 30 s after acquisition with a tolerance of 10 ppm. Exclusion duration was 45 s with list size of 300 precursor ions with no expiration. Rejection mass list contains 81 major peptides from Arabidopsis RuBisCO small and large subunits, porcine trypsin and human keratin.  Tandem mass spectra were extracted and charge state deconvoluted by MASCOT Distiller version 2.0. De‐isotoping was not performed. All MS/MS spectra were analyzed using MASCOT (Matrix Science, London, UK, server version 2.3) and X! Tandem (www.thegpm.org; version 2007.01.01.1) searching the TAIR9 database. Iodoacetamide derivative of cysteine was specified as a fixed modification; and oxidized methionine was specified as a variable modification. Scaffold (version Scaffold_2_06_00, Proteome Software, Portland, OR) was used to validate MS/MS‐based peptide and protein identifications. Peptide identifications were accepted at greater than 95.0% probability using the Peptide Prophet algorithm CITATION. Protein identifications were accepted at greater than 99.0% probability with at least two identified peptides. Protein probabilities were assigned by the Protein Prophet algorithm CITATION. Proteins that contained similar peptides and could not be differentiated based on MS/MS analysis alone were grouped to satisfy the principles of parsimony.  Subcellular localization was analyzed using SUBA (version 2.2.1, available at: http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/suba2/) CITATION. Subcellular locations were exported from SUBA for each protein with each experimental predictor and algorithmic predictor weighed equally. Cumulative prediction counts (CPC) was measured by assigning one count for each predictor that assigns a protein to an individual cellular localization. Exclusive subcellular location for an individual protein was assigned if the CPC for a particular locale was greater than that for any other subcelluar locations. If multiple subcellular loci shared equal maximum CPC (MAXCPC), this protein was considered as located in multiple cellular compartments. The AGI numbers for the proteins identified by the MS were entered at http://www.arabidopsis.org/tools/bulk/protein/index.jsp, which returned output with the number of TMDs for each protein, as determined by HMMTOP (http://www.enzim.hu/hmmtop). 
