!~ABS~! The signal transduction mechanisms of the oxidative stress response in plants remain largely unexplored. Previously, increased levels of cellular hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) had been shown to drastically affect the plant transcriptome. Genome‐wide transcriptome analyses allowed us to build a comprehensive inventory of H2O2‐induced genes in plants. Here, the primary objective was to determine the subcellular localization of these genes and to assess potential trafficking during oxidative stress. After high‐throughput cloning in Gateway‐derived vectors, the subcellular localization of 49 proteins fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) was identified in a transient assay in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) by means of agro‐infiltration and confirmed for a selection of genes in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants. Whereas eight of the GFP‐tagged proteins are exclusively localized in the nucleus, 23 reside both in the nucleus and cytosol, in which several classes of known transcription factors and proteins of unknown function can be recognized. In this study, the mapping of the subcellular localization of H2O2‐induced proteins paves the way for future research to unravel the H2O2 responses in plants. Furthermore, the effect of increased H2O2 levels on the subcellular localization of a subset of proteins was assessed. 
!~RES~! Firstly, we compared the available microarray data sets that profiled the Arabidopsis transcriptome during elevated photorespiratory H2O2 levels. Perturbation of catalase activities, by mutation or gene silencing, results in decreased H2O2 scavenging during HL stress or low CO2 availability in C3 plants (Willekens et al. 1997; Noctor et al. 2002). Catalase loss‐of‐function mutants are an ideal in planta model system to examine the consequences of increased levels of endogenous H2O2, because disturbance in H2O2 homeostasis can be sustained over time, no invasive techniques are needed and physiologically relevant H2O2 levels are obtained (Dat et al. 2001). In three independent studies, the transcriptome of HL‐stressed transgenic Arabidopsis leaves perturbed in the most predominant catalase (CAT2) was assessed by three different microarray platforms: Affymetrix GeneChip ATH1, CATMA microarray v2 and Agilent Arabidopsis v3 oligonucleotide array. By monitoring different time points after HL exposure, the dynamics of the transcriptional response could be investigated (Supporting Information Table S1; Vanderauwera et al. 2005, 2011; Hoeberichts et al., unpublished results). These genome‐wide transcriptome analyses allowed us to build a comprehensive inventory of HIGs in Arabidopsis. To make a robust selection of HIGs for further functional studies, the induction of each transcript was studied in all three experiments. To understand the early signalling steps triggered by an abrupt change in H2O2 availability, we selected genes that responded within 1 to 8 h after shifting the catalase‐deficient lines to higher irradiance. For a cross‐platform comparison, a fold change‐dependent threshold was used as selection criterion for differential gene expression (see Materials and Methods). A total of 783 transcripts had a modified expression in response to elevated levels of photorespiratory H2O2 and were designated HIGs. An assessment of overrepresented GO terms within these 783 HIGs by means of the BiNGO tool (Maere et al. 2005) revealed that the majority of the genes were associated with stress responses (Supporting Information Table S3). The most significant GO term was ‘response to stimulus’. Pairwise comparisons of the three data sets indicated that approximately 20% of the transcripts were induced in at least two experiments (Supporting Information Fig. S1a). This intersection was significantly enriched in transcripts belonging to the ‘response to heat’ GO term (Supporting Information Table S3), which is in accordance with the well‐established relationship between the oxidative and heat stress responses (Miller & Mittler 2006). Many small heat shock proteins (sHSPs), together with other HSPs and heat shock factors, are substantially up‐regulated by photorespiratory H2O2. In fact, 11% of all heat shock‐responsive genes are up‐regulated by H2O2 in catalase‐deficient plants (Vanderauwera et al. 2005). In total, 24 H2O2‐responsive genes are common for all three data sets and are enriched in genes belonging to the GO molecular function ‘oxidoreductase activity’ (Supporting Information Table S3).  The subcellular localization is a key functional characteristic of eukaryotic proteins. To properly execute their biological functions, proteins must be targeted to or retained in the correct subcellular compartments or organelles in time or during a particular stimulus. To obtain a first indication of the subcellular localization, we used the publicly available and high‐throughput in silico prediction program PA. PA adopts features calculated with PSI‐BLAST (Altschul et al. 1997) against the Swiss‐Prot database and employs a Naive Bayes algorithm to assign a protein in different subcellular compartments: nucleus, cytosol, chloroplast, mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi apparatus, lysosome, peroxisome, vacuole and plasma membrane (Szafron et al. 2004). In silico prediction of subcellular localizations is an asset in the era of generating large‐scale proteomic, transcriptomic, and genomic data. However, it still remains a cumbersome task, especially in plants for which the nature or sequence characteristics of many targeting signals are largely elusive.  Of the 783 HIGs, PA assigned 483 proteins to a specific compartment of which the majority was predicted to reside in the nucleus (123) and cytosol (110) (Supporting Information Fig. S1b). For 85 transcripts, we initiated an experimental validation of the subcellular location. The selection of these 85 transcripts was based on three criteria, namely, PA‐based computational predictions, functional category and responsiveness towards various abiotic stresses. To focus on the most strongly H2O2‐responsive transcripts of the 783 HIGs, we retained only transcripts with at least a fivefold increase in expression (20% was induced at least 10‐fold; Supporting Information Fig. S2). We selected predominantly proteins that were (1) predicted to reside in the nucleus or cytosol and omitted chloroplastic or vacuolar predicted proteins (48); and (2) categorized as (putative) transcription factors and/or nucleic acid‐binding proteins and genes of unknown function (Supporting Information Table S4). In addition, we assessed the responsiveness of the selected transcripts under abiotic stress conditions with the AtGenExpress abiotic stress time series (Kilian et al. 2007) and the UV‐A and UV‐B light series (Peschke & Kretsch 2011), and retained only those transcripts that were induced by multiple abiotic stresses. In total, 85 transcripts were obtained by these consecutive selection steps and their abiotic stress response profiles and subcellular localization (both in silico and in vivo) are presented (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] Not surprisingly, because of the applied selection criteria, most members are predicted as nuclear or cytosolic, of which the majority are transcription factors/nucleic acid binding (Supporting Information Table S4). Because our future objective is to identify regulators within H2O2‐dependent signalling networks, these proteins are primary candidates for possible shuttling between the nucleus and cytosol under oxidative stress conditions. When the co‐expression patterns for the 85 HIGs were considered (based on pairwise correlation analyses with the AtGenExpress abiotic stress compendium) by means of the web tool CORNET, almost all genes were part of one or two tightly co‐regulated networks (Supporting Information Fig. S3). Besides providing insights into the co‐expression networks based on transcriptome data, CORNET also integrates the protein interactome, localization data (both in silico and experimental) and functional information of Arabidopsis. For these 85 H2O2‐induced proteins, the aim was to fuse the open reading frames (ORFs) to GFP both at the N‐ and C‐terminal ends under the control of the constitutive CaMV35S promoter with Gateway‐compatible plant transformation vectors (Karimi et al. 2007). We successfully obtained 52 GFP‐ORF and 37 ORF‐GFP fusion constructs that were subsequently used in a protein localization assay of abaxial epidermis cells of tobacco leaves via Agrobacterium‐mediated transient expression. Both the simplicity of the Gateway cloning and the transient infiltration assay provided the desired high‐throughput necessary for such screening. The subcellular localization could be rapidly determined in situ in photosynthetically active leaves, which corresponded to tissues in which the HIGs originally had been identified. This technique results in a high transformation frequency in comparison with infiltration, mesophyll cell transfection or biolistic bombardment of cell cultures in Arabidopsis (Sparkes et al. 2006).  The subcellular localization for each construct was analysed 2 d after Agrobacterium infiltration in at least two independent transformation events. From 68 constructs in total, localization data were obtained for 49 different proteins, but for the remaining ones no detectable GFP signal was observed (11) or the construction of GFP fusions was unsuccessful (25). Whereas eight GFP‐tagged proteins were exclusively located in the nucleus, 23 resided both in the nucleus and cytosol. As expected, nearly all nucleus‐localized proteins were transcription factors or nucleic acid‐binding proteins. An exclusively cytosolic localization was seen only for two sHSPs. Three proteins displayed a chloroplastic localization, including unexpectedly a petunia No Apical Meristem, Arabidopsis ATAF1/2 and CUC (NAC) transcription factor. Of the six proteins present in the endomembrane compartment, two had distinct plasma membrane localizations. For seven proteins, the subcellular localization could not be assigned to a particular subcellular compartment (Table 1). Comparison between the in silico predictions and our experimental data revealed the strength of PA for nucleus‐predicted proteins (Fig. 2). Almost all members belonging to the functional category ‘transcription factor/nucleic acid‐binding protein’ were predicted to be nuclear. These proteins show a nuclear or nucleocytosolic localization in vivo, thereby confirming the in silico nuclear predictions. In addition, the majority of the proteins with an unknown function predicted to be nuclear or cytosolic were also confirmed in vivo. However, it is important to keep in mind that the prediction of a subcellular localization of a protein cannot replace experimental data, because factors other than the presence of a targeting sequence can define its subcellular localization. For instance, interacting partners can sequester the protein to another subcellular compartment and some proteins have a dynamic localization depending on the plant's developmental stage or environmental stimuli encountered. Although fluorescent tagging of a protein can provide insights into the in vivo (dynamic) subcellular localization, some considerations have to be taken into account. Firstly, the position of the fluorescent tag can alter the location of the native protein. For example, interactions with other proteins can be abrogated and misfolding can occur. Secondly, constitutive overproduction of the tagged protein can saturate interaction partners and organellar import machineries, leading to protein misfolding and aggregation. Thirdly, in contrast, transgenic production of fusion proteins under the control of the native promoter often generates a very weak signal that, in turn, might limit the throughput of the assay. Notwithstanding these considerations, the strategy used here allows a fast generation of data in a relatively small time frame.  [[FIGURE]] The localizations of WRKY75, DREB2A, RHOMBOID‐LIKE 14 (AtRBL14), SUFE2 and AtFes1A have recently been described and confirm our observations (Sakuma et al. 2006; Devaiah, Karthikeyan & Raghothama 2007; Murthy et al. 2007; Kmiec‐Wisniewska et al. 2008; Zhang et al. 2010), whereas the localizations of cytokinin response factor 6 (CRF6) and up‐regulated by oxidative stress (UPOX) differed from previously published localizations and will be discussed next.  To validate our findings of the transient expression assay, we produced stably transformed transgenic Arabidopsis plants to allow homologous gene expression and examination of different cell types. In addition, the overall impact of overproduction of the fusion proteins on plant development and the adaptability towards environmental stimuli can be assessed. With the same constructs as those in the transient assay, stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants were obtained for 31 of the 49 proteins. At least two independent transgenic lines per construct were analysed. Except for two proteins [HSP17.6B‐CI (At2g29500) and HYPOXIA‐RESPONSIVE ERF 2 (HRE2; At2g47500)], the tobacco subcellular localization of all fusion proteins was confirmed in Arabidopsis (Fig. 3 and Supporting Information Figs S4–S6).  [[FIGURE]] In this survey, we analysed the subcellular location of 18 H2O2‐responsive transcription factors and nucleic acid‐binding proteins, such as WRKY, MYB, APETALA2 (AP2), NAC, HSF and basic helix‐loop‐helix (bHLH). Seven fusion proteins from this category localized exclusively to the nucleus, 10 resided both in the nucleus and cytosol, and one localized unexpectedly in chloroplasts. In total, nine members of the NAC transcription factor family were induced by photorespiratory H2O2, of which five were included in this study: ANAC013 (At1g32870), ANAC032 (At1g77450), ANAC053 (At3g10500), ANAC087 (At5g18270) and ANAC102 (At5g63790) (Ooka et al. 2003). Based on the presence of a nuclear localization signal, all were predicted by PA as nuclear. In vivo, only ANAC032 appeared to be exclusively nuclear, while the GFP fluorescence for ANAC013, ANAC053 and ANAC087 was observed also in the cytosol. Both ANAC013 and ANAC053 had previously been identified as possible membrane‐associated NAC proteins and designated as NAC with transmembrane motif 1‐like (Kim, Kim & Park 2007), NTL1 and NTL4, respectively. Membrane‐anchored NTL proteins are released and hence activated by a controlled proteolytic cleavage mechanism, called RIP, which provides a rapid post‐translational activation of these NAC proteins in response to incoming stimuli (Kim et al. 2008). Both NTL1 and NTL4 display a nucleocytosolic localization in tobacco, besides a vesicular pattern visible in the case of GFP‐NTL4, which might be caused by agro‐infiltration that results in ROS accumulation and activation of a defence response (Pruss, Nester & Vance 2008). In turn, this might lead to regulated proteolysis, thereby releasing NTL1 and NTL4 in the cytosol where they are directed to the nucleus by the presence of a nuclear localization signal. As both proteins possess strong α‐helical transmembrane motifs that suggest a membrane localization, this hypothetical relocalization is currently under investigation. Besides being H2O2‐responsive, ANAC102 is also induced under hypoxic conditions (Klok et al. 2002; Christianson et al. 2009). In the transient assay, the localization pattern of ANAC102 differed depending on the position of the GFP tag: when GFP was positioned at the N‐terminus, it was mainly nucleocytosolic, although a cytoskeletal localization was apparent as well, but ANAC102‐GFP proteins displayed an exclusively chloroplastic localization both in tobacco and in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. To exclude that ectopic expression by the strong CaMV35S promoter caused this chloroplastic localization, we assessed the subcellular location of GFP‐ANAC102 and ANAC102‐GFP under the control of the ANAC102 promoter sequence (1500 bp upstream of start codon) in stable transgenic lines of Arabidopsis. While no fluorescent signal was detected for GFP‐ANAC102, ANAC102‐GFP co‐localized again with chloroplasts. Increasing evidence is available that nuclear regulators, such as transcription factors, are present in organelles like mitochondria and plastids (Krause & Krupinska 2009). Under certain conditions, these organellar transcription factors might be released and subsequently targeted to the nucleus. Several mechanisms are plausible for release and nuclear trafficking, such as proteolytic cleavage of membrane‐associated proteins, transport by vesicles, release via channels or transporters, stromule tip shedding, and close intercompartmental contacts (Krause & Krupinska 2009).  The AP2 transcription factor family is plant specific and comprises approximately 145 genes that are characterized by the presence of a DNA‐binding AP2/ERF domain of 60–70 amino acids (Gutterson & Reuber 2004). In our analysis, five members of the AP2 superfamily were included: AtERF069 (At1g22985), AtERF071 (At2g47520), AtERF019 (At1g22810), DREB2A (At5g05410) and CRF6 (At3g61630). Both GFP fusions of AtERF069 localized to the nucleus and were excluded from the nucleolus. AtERF071, also known as HRE2, is induced under hypoxic conditions and involved in low oxygen signalling (Licausi et al. 2010). Upon transient expression in tobacco, GFP‐AtERF071 localizes to the nucleus and cytosol and AtERF071‐GFP to the nucleus. In Arabidopsis, however, the N‐terminal fusion protein displays an exclusively nuclear localization. Discrepancies between localizations in tobacco and Arabidopsis might hint towards putative relocalizations during oxidative stress. To investigate the behaviour of AtERF071 during oxidative stress, a transient expression assay in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was used, but no nucleocytosolic partitioning occurred (data not shown) after the addition of 1.5 mm or 3 mm H2O2. This study also included CRF6. CRFs are a small subclass of AP2 domain‐containing transcription factors and are characterized by their transcriptional regulation by cytokinins. Arabidopsis contains in total eight CRF genes that all have a unique CRF domain (Rashotte & Goertzen 2010). Interestingly, six members of the CRF family relocalize from the cytosol to the nucleus upon cytokinin treatment (Rashotte et al. 2006). Here, CRF6 has a clear nucleocytosolic localization, which is in contrast with the previous observation that CRF6 is exclusively cytosolic (Rashotte et al. 2006).  In total, we studied 25 proteins of unknown function (Supporting Information Fig. S5) and could assign them to different subcellular compartments: chloroplasts (1), ER/plasma membrane (6), nucleus and cytosol (11) and no specific compartment (7). Despite the absence of a genuine N‐terminal transit peptide, the only protein targeted to the chloroplasts is At5g05220, although it had been predicted as cytosolic by PA, illustrating the need to experimentally validate in silico predictions. Six proteins of unknown function have an ER and/or plasma membrane localization [At1g05575, At2g18680, At3g18250, At3g17611 (AtRBL14), At2g25735 and At1g26380] (Supporting Information Fig. S5). Transient expression of both At1g05575 and At2g18680 indicated an ER localization, whereas ectopic overexpression of At2g18680‐GFP in Arabidopsis also revealed a large granular localization. Because of the hydrophobic nature of this protein, this localization might be an artefact. Both GFP fusions of At3g18250 and AtRBL14 (At3g17611) in tobacco and Arabidopsis appeared in a perinuclear ring, which is characteristic for an ER localization. AtRBL14 contains four helical transmembrane regions (characteristic for rhomboid‐like proteins) and a zinc‐finger of the RANBP2‐type. Our observations indicate a punctuate plasma membrane localization of AtRBL14. Because rhomboid proteins are integral membrane serine proteases known to be involved in RIP, it would be interesting to identify substrates that are potentially cleaved by AtRBL14 under oxidative stress conditions.  Furthermore, 11 HIGs with unknown function displayed a nuclear or nucleocytosolic localization (Table 1; Supporting Information Fig. S5), whereas seven fusion proteins (At1g33600, At5g19230, At1g56060, At4g36500, At5g14730, At4g01870 and At2g21640) had no specific subcellular localization (Supporting Information Fig. S5). The localization of At1g33600, a leucine‐rich repeat‐containing protein, exhibited ER characteristics. Another protein, At5g19230, is an unknown membrane glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI)‐anchored protein (Borner et al. 2002, 2003) that contains an N‐terminal signal peptide for targeting into the secretory pathway and an hydrophobic C‐terminal peptide necessary for GPI‐anchoring in membranes. However, removal of this GPI‐anchor by cleavage can result in a redistribution in the soluble compartment (Borner et al. 2002, 2003). Interestingly, the transient expression of GFP‐At5g19230 in tobacco revealed a perinuclear ring, a vesicular pattern, some features of the tonoplast and a plasma membrane localization. Presumably, the presence of the GFP tag at the N‐terminus blocks the secretory signal peptide leading to mistargeting, whereas the hydrophobic C‐terminal GPI‐anchoring site still allows the association with internal membranes, resulting in this particular localization. For At1g56060, the localization differed depending on the position of the GFP tag. GFP‐At1g56060 had a distinct granular pattern and plasma membrane localization, whereas production of the C‐terminal fusion protein resulted in fluorescence in some ER cells, but a clear plasma membrane localization in most cells. Therefore, we assume that At1g56060 is located in the plasma membrane. The localization of GFP‐At4g36500 displayed ER features, such as the perinuclear ring and a reticular pattern. At5g14730, one of the most highly induced HIGs of our data set, contains a domain of unknown function (DUF1645 IPR012442). The localization of the N‐terminal GFP fusion again shows ER features. However, it is very likely that the presence of GFP hampers efficient ER targeting. At4g01870 contains three domains: one N‐terminal dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV) region domain, one WD‐40 β‐propeller repeat and one TolB‐related β‐propeller domain. In tobacco, GFP‐At4g01870 again showed the characteristic perinuclear ring and a plasma membrane localization, but in Arabidopsis, only a plasma membrane localization was apparent. UPOX (At2g21640) had previously been identified as a mitochondrial oxidative stress marker protein (Sweetlove et al. 2002; Gadjev et al. 2006; Giraud et al. 2008; Ho et al. 2008; Van Aken et al. 2009). In tobacco, UPOX‐GFP localizes to punctate structures and to the nucleus and cytosol, whereas in Arabidopsis, it has a nucleocytosolic localization. Further detailed studies are necessary to pinpoint the exact localization of these unknown proteins.  Besides transcription factors and proteins of unknown function, some transcripts with miscellaneous functions were also included in our study because of their strong induction by photorespiratory H2O2. At3g02800‐GFP, a phosphoprotein tyrosine phosphatase, localized to the nucleus and cytosol. For SufE2 (At1g67810), which is involved in iron–sulphur metabolism, we could confirm the previously reported chloroplastic localization (Murthy et al. 2007). Furthermore, we also determined the localization of 18 heat shock‐responsive genes, including two sHSPs (HSP17.6B‐CI and HSP17.8‐CI), a DnaJ N‐terminal domain‐containing protein (AtDjC68) and AtFes1A (At3g09350). Both HSP17.6B‐CI and HSP17.8‐CI belong to the class I subfamily, suggesting a cytosolic localization (Miernyk 2001). Interestingly, transient expression of GFP‐HSP17.6B‐CI in tobacco revealed, in addition to a cytosolic, also a granular localization. These granules resemble the well‐known heat stress granules (HSGs) formed under elevated temperatures into which sHSPs – together with other HSPs – are incorporated (Nakamoto & Vígh 2007). In non‐stressed Arabidopsis transgenic plants generated with the same GFP construct, only a cytosolic localization was found, suggesting that these HSGs might also be formed under other stress conditions, such as the accumulation of ROS that results from Agrobacterium infiltration (Pruss et al. 2008). In contrast to the suggested cytosolic localization of HSP17.8‐CI (Miernyk 2001), it was nucleocytosolic both in tobacco and Arabidopsis. AtFes1A, an ortholog of the human HspBP‐1 and yeast Fes1p, had recently been published as a high‐temperature‐induced protein that interacts with Hsp70 (Zhang et al. 2010). Transient expression in mesophyll protoplasts of AtFes1A‐GFP revealed a nucleocytosolic localization (Zhang et al. 2010), in agreement with our observation.  The use of GFP fusion proteins also enables an in vivo localization to subcompartments. For instance, some proteins of our study localize to subnuclear structures (Fig. 4). Besides a plasma membrane localization, At2g25735 had a punctate, nuclear speckle‐like pattern that is thought to be involved in mRNA splicing. Moreover, the nuclear localization pattern of At2g25735 also showed a ring around the nucleolus, which is the site of rDNA transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Because of the lack of evidence for a functional border between the nucleus and the nucleolus, nucleolar targeting is based on direct and indirect interactions with rDNA and its transcripts (Carmo‐Fonseca, Mendes‐Soares & Campos 2000). The nucleolar ring‐like localization might be assigned to one of the three morphological components of the nucleolus (the fibrillar centres, the dense fibrillar component and the granular component) (Pendle et al. 2005). Both At1g28190 and At3g02840 displayed an increased accumulation in the nucleolus. In fact, the nucleolus is considered to play a role in multiple stress responses (Shaw & Brown 2004). AtDjC68, a DnaJ heat shock N‐terminal domain‐containing protein (At1g71000) localized in nuclear speckles in tobacco. Transient expression of AtDj68 in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts showned in a nucleocytosolic localization, whereas the addition of 1.5 mm H2O2 resulted in an exclusively nuclear localization in almost 15% of the protoplasts (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For the comparative analysis on transcriptional changes induced in catalase‐deficient plants after HL exposure, we compiled the data of one in‐house stored and two published H2O2‐dependent microarray experiments that were generated with different platforms (for experimental details, see Supporting Information Table S1). A previous cross‐platform comparison of Affymetrix ATH1, Agilent and Complete Arabidopsis Transcriptome MicroArray (CATMA) arrays revealed a comparable sensitivity and a fair agreement of signal intensities (Allemeersch et al. 2005). From the Affymetrix ATH1 data set, genes showing at least a threefold induction in CAT2HP1 plants after 3 h of HL exposure were selected (Vanderauwera et al. 2005), whereas from the Agilent Arabidopsis V3 data set, genes showing a significant induction [two‐way analysis of variance, interaction significance + genotype and treatment significance (P < 0.001; Q < 0.05), and threefold induction] in CAT2HP2 plants after 1 h of HL exposure were retained (Vanderauwera et al. 2011), and from the CATMA (v2.3, ArrayExpress accession n° A‐MEXP‐120) experiment, a data set was created of genes showing a significant induction [mixed model according to Wolfinger et al. (2001): interaction significance (P < 0.001)] in CAT2HP1 plants after 8 h of HL irradiation (Hoeberichts et al., unpublished results).  Protein sequences were downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR7; Rhee et al. 2003; http://www.arabidopsis.org), converted to FASTA format and analysed in Proteome Analyst (PA), a web‐based tool for high‐throughput prediction of protein features (http://www.cs.ualberta.ca/~bioinfo/PA; Szafron et al. 2004).  Within the different tools of GENEVESTIGATOR, the Response Viewer was used to find the response profiles of individual H2O2‐induced genes (designated HIGs hereafter) to various environmental stimuli (Zimmermann et al. 2004; Zimmermann, Hennig & Gruissem 2005). Out of the different conditions annotated, the AtGenExpress abiotic stress time series (Kilian et al. 2007) and AtGenExpress light treatments UV‐A and UV‐AB (Peschke & Kretsch 2011) were selected. Expression values were median‐centred across each gene and subjected to hierarchical average linkage clustering (Euclidian distance) using the Genesis software (Sturn, Quackenbush & Trajanoski 2002).  Overrepresented gene ontology (GO) terms in the HIG data set were identified with the Biological Networks Gene Ontology (BiNGO) tool (Maere, Heymans & Kuiper 2005) in Cytoscape 2.6.0 (Shannon et al. 2003). The hypergeometric test was chosen at a significance value of 0.05 with the Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate correction for multiple testing (Benjamini & Yekutieli 2001).  The online data mining tool CORrelation NETworks (CORNET; http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/cornet; De Bodt et al. 2010) provides insights into co‐expression networks with transcriptome data and integrates proteome data, localization data (both in silico and experimental) and functional data of Arabidopsis. Out of the different predefined data sets available, the AtGenExpress abiotic stress time series (Kilian et al. 2007) were used. With the co‐expression tool, the Pearson correlation coefficient threshold was set >0.7 and pairwise correlation between HIGs was calculated. The output was visualized in Cytoscape 2.6.0 (Shannon et al. 2003).  Full‐length open reading frames (with and without stop codon) and promoters were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from first‐strand cDNA and genomic DNA of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col‐0), respectively, with gene/promoter‐specific primers extended with the attB sites for Gateway cloning (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) (Supporting Information Table S2). PCR reactions were run with high‐fidelity Phusion DNA polymerase (Finnzymes OY, Espoo, Finland) and fragments were cloned into Gateway entry vectors (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Constitutive promoter‐driven expression clones were generated in the binary destination vectors pK7FWG2 and pK7WGF2 (Karimi et al. 2007), resulting in C‐ and N‐terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)‐protein fusions, respectively, under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter. Endogenous promoter‐driven translational fusions were created with the MultiSite Gateway technology that combined the open reading frames and GFP fragments downstream of the endogenous promoter in the pK7m34GW destination vector (Karimi et al. 2007). All constructs were transferred into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 harbouring the virulence plasmid MP90. The 35S promoter‐driven GFP‐fusion constructs for protoplast transfection were made by means of the high‐copy plasmids p2FGW7 and p2GWF7, resulting in N‐ and C‐terminal fusions, respectively (Karimi et al. 2007).  All GFP‐protein fusion constructs were transiently expressed in leaf epidermal cells of 5‐week‐old wild‐type tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) by Agrobacterium tumefaciens‐mediated leaf infiltration (Sparkes et al. 2006). Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared and transfected according to Yoo, Cho & Sheen (2007). Protoplasts (1 × 105) were incubated in washing and incubation solution (0.5 m mannitol, 4 mm 2‐(N‐morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid, pH 5.7, and 20 mm KCl) supplemented with 1.5 mm or 3 mm H2O2 at 21 °C (continuous light). To identify potential relocalizations, the subcellular localization of, in total three times, 100 protoplasts was assessed at different time points by laser scanning confocal microscopy.  For stable expression, the constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis Col‐0 plants by Agrobacterium‐mediated floral dip (Clough & Bent 1998). Kanamycin‐resistant plants were selected on half‐strength MS medium (Duchefa Biochemie, Haarlem, The Netherlands), 1% (w/v) sucrose, 0.7% (w/v) agar, pH 5.7 and 35 mg L−1 kanamycin (Sigma‐Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA) at 21 °C and 16‐h light/8‐h dark photoperiod. For each construct, 10 kanamycin‐resistant 3‐week‐old plants were analysed for GFP fluorescence using laser scanning confocal microscopy. Homozygous lines with a single T‐DNA locus were selected by segregation.  The adaxial leaf epidermis was scanned by fluorescence microscopy with a confocal microscope 100 M and software package LSM 510 version 3.2 (Zeiss, Jena, Germany), equipped with a 63× water corrected objective (numerical aperture 1.2). GFP fluorescence was imaged in a single channel setting with 488 nm for GFP excitation. 
