!~ABS~! In yeast, endosomal sorting of monoubiquitylated transmembrane proteins is performed by a subset of the 19 “class E vacuolar protein sorting” proteins. The core machinery consists of 11 proteins that are organised in three complexes termed ESCRT I-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport I-III) and is conserved in eukaryotic cells. While the pathway is well understood in yeast and animals, the plant ESCRT system is largely unexplored. At least one sequence homolog for each ESCRT component can be found in the Arabidopsis genome. Generally, sequence conservation between yeast/animals and the Arabidopsis proteins is low. To understand details about participating proteins and complex organization we have performed a systematic pairwise yeast two hybrid analysis of all Arabidopsis proteins showing homology to the ESCRT core machinery. Positive interactions were validated using bimolecular fluorescence complementation. In our experiments, most putative ESCRT components exhibited interactions with other ESCRT components that could be shown to occur on endosomes suggesting that despite their low homology to their yeast and animal counterparts they represent functional components of the plant ESCRT pathway.
!~RES~! To examine a possible functional connection between the Arabidopsis ESCRT homologs, we performed a systematic yeast two hybrid assay, using each gene as bait and as prey with every other putative ESCRT member (Table 2; Fig. 1).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] To extend and complement the yeast two-hybrid experiments, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts. In these experiments, we could reproduce most of the interactions discovered in the yeast two-hybrid assays. In addition, we found interactions that were not detected with the yeast two-hybrid approach (Table 2; Fig. 1; Supplementary Fig. 1). As summarized in Fig. 1, all putative ESCRT components exhibited interactions with other ESCRT components suggesting that they represent a functional unit, the plant ESCRT pathway. According to the conveyor belt model, the ESCRT core consists of three subcomplexes, ESCRT-I-III, which directionally pass on the ubiquitylated cargo. Contacts between ESCRT-I and ESCRT-III are not necessary for sorting. Interestingly, we found interactions between ESCRT-I and ESCRT-III members in both assay systems (Table 2; Figs. 1, 2a–e). ESCRT-I ESCRT-III interactions had been identified in yeast previously (Bowers et al. CITATION), but have never been taken into account for the molecular models of ESCRT sorting. For the mammalian system such interactions have not been reported (von Schwedler et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  The Arabidopsis network shows two densely connected regions, one that contains the ubiquitin-interacting proteins of ESCRT-I and ESCRT-II and one that contains the ESCRT-III homologs (Fig. 1). To further corroborate this first but possibly subjective impression we analysed the network with computational methods that were originally developed for small scale social networks (Freeman CITATION; Girvan and Newman CITATION) and have been successfully applied for protein–protein interaction networks. For this purpose, every interaction was incorporated into the network regardless whether it was found by one or both interaction assays. This is justifiable as it cannot be expected that one assay detects all genuine interactions (Yu et al. CITATION). Furthermore, it has recently been shown that Y2H only produces a low degree of false positive results in systematic pairwise studies (Yu et al. CITATION). In addition, both the Y2H and BiFC assays performed in this study each contain a high number of internal negative controls due to the systematic approach. Therefore, we consider false positive results unlikely. Self interactions of proteins do not contribute to the network and were therefore neglected. In the network analysis, we focussed on two questions. Firstly, we wanted to identify components that are occupying central positions in the network and can therefore be considered key components of the pathway. For this purpose, we used the “betweenness centrality” (CB) algorithm (Freeman CITATION). With this algorithm all shortest paths along the edges (representing the interactions) between every node of the network (in this case representing the proteins) are calculated. Nodes that are crossed by many shortest paths are considered to be central. For the Arabidopsis ESCRT network two key components, VPS20-1 and ELCH, show the highest degree of centrality (Fig. 3a), indicating that they might be important for assembly of the complexes or form interfaces in between subcomplexes. [[FIGURE]]  Secondly, we aimed to analyse possible substructures of the network that could indicate functional subcomplexes. For this purpose we used the Girvan-Newman algorithm (Girvan and Newman CITATION). The Girvan-Newman algorithm determines all shortest paths of the network as the above mentioned CB algorithm does. Edges that are used by many shortest paths are assigned high ranks. In a second step, the edge with the highest rank is removed from the network. The two steps are repeated until all edges are removed. Whenever removing an edge creates regions detached from the rest of the network the “modularity” is calculated, a parameter indicating the significance of the partition. Using this method, we could not find the postulated three complexes but the Arabidopsis network could be divided into two groups, one that among others contains the ubiquitin interacting proteins VPS23 and VPS36 and one that contains the structural ESCRT III components (Fig. 3b). The BiFC technique does not only allow to detect whether proteins interact but also to determine the intracellular localization of the interaction. The BiFC signals of the positive interactions were observed on punctuated structures. To decide whether these are Golgi stacks or endosomes we performed colocalisations with the Golgi marker G-rb (Nelson et al. CITATION) and the MVB marker ARA6 (Ueda et al. CITATION) (Fig. 4) in Arabidopsis protoplasts with one example for intra-ESCRT-I interactions (Fig. 4a, b), one example for ESCRT-I ESCRT-II interactions (Fig. 4c, d), and one example for ESCRT-I ESCRT-III interactions (Fig. 4e, f). In these experiments, no colocalisation of any BiFC interaction with the Golgi marker G-rb was found (Fig. 4a, c, e). That the punctae represent endosomes is evident from triple transformations of protoplasts with the BiFC constructs of the respective interactors and ARA6:CFP as MVB marker (Fig. 4b, d, f). Therefore it is likely that the Arabidopsis ESCRT system is assembled on MVBs to mediate sorting in analogy to the mechanism in yeast and mammals. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! All full length cDNAs for PCR and subsequent BP reaction were obtained from RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center (Sakurai et al. CITATION; Seki et al. CITATION, CITATION) with the exception of VPS37-1 that was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis stock centre (NASC). ARA6 was a gift from Takashi Ueda and has been described earlier (Ueda et al. CITATION; Ueda and Nakano CITATION). Gene specific primers incorporating attB1 and attB2 sequences were purchased from Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany. Details are available on request. The coding sequences of the VPS genes were amplified by PCR reactions with primers incorporating attB1 and attB2 sequences (Invitrogen) and introduced into the pDONR201 by BP clonase reaction according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). The resulting pDONR201 clones were transformed into the E. coli strain DH5-alpha and sequenced. DNA fragments were transferred to the destination vectors pAS2.1 and pACT2.1 for Y2H analysis or to pENSG-YFP and pENSG-CFP for localisation studies by LR clonase reaction according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). The product of recombination reaction (LR reaction) was used to transfect Arabidopsis protoplasts.  Arabidopsis cells were cultured in suspension culture (Columbia ecotype; grown in MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l NAA and 0.1 mg/l KIN) as described (Mathur and Koncz CITATION). Protoplasts were isolated and transformed by polyethylene glycol-mediated transfection according to (Mathur and Koncz CITATION). The transfected protoplasts were incubated at 23°C for 16 h in the dark before microscopic observation. A LEICA TCS SP2 microscope was used for acquisition of confocal microscopic images. Adobe Photoshop was used to adjust brightness, contrast and levels of the pictures and for producing the merged pictures. Unless mentioned otherwise, all genes were fused to the N-terminus of the split-YFP parts and were therefore amplified without stop-codon and introduced into pDONR201. After sequencing, the resulting clones were used for LR recombination reaction into the destination vectors pSPYNE and pSPYCE (Walter et al. CITATION) and subsequent transfection of 10 μg of each plasmid into Arabidopsis protoplasts together with 10 μg of a 35Spro:KRP-CFP containing plasmid (Jakoby et al. CITATION) as transfection control. Negative controls were carried out for each experiment by cotransforming an empty vector containing only the appropriate split-YFP part together with the respective gene:split-YFP fusion and by expression of the non-interacting transcription factors AtMYB51 (At1g18570) in pSPYNE and bHLH133 (At2g20095) in pSPYCE to exclude non-specific association caused by high local concentrations of non interacting partners (Gigolashvili et al. CITATION; Lalonde et al. CITATION). Experiments were performed in a reciprocal manner at least three times. In the negative controls and negative samples we could never observe YFP fluorescence. The yeast strain AH109 (James et al. CITATION) was grown in standard yeast full media or selective drop-out media (Clontech, Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France) under standard conditions. Plasmids were transformed into yeast by the LiAc transformation method (Gietz et al. CITATION). Interactions were analysed on synthetic dropout medium lacking leucine and tryptophan and on synthetic dropout medium without leucine, tryptophan and histidine supplemented with 3 mM 3-aminotriazole (3-AT) (Sigma–Aldrich, Munich, Germany). SNF1 and SNF4 were used as positive controls (Fields and Song CITATION). Prior to pairwise testing, autoactivation controls were performed by transfecting yeast cells with the bait vectors together with the empty prey vector. No autoactivating baits were observed. Interactions were scored as positive if the test plate contained the same colony density as the transformation control plate after 4 days (>100 colonies). On test plates scored as negative, by contrast, we did not find any colonies after 4 days. We have not checked expression of the Y2H constructs in yeast. It is therefore possible that cases without any apparent interaction (VPS24-1, VPS2-3, both directions, VPS28-2, as prey) are due to lack of expression. All experiments were repeated at least three times and performed in a reciprocal manner using the respective genes both as bait and prey. A gene excluded from our analysis is the VPS24-2 gene that according to Genevestigator (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at/) is only expressed in embryos and could not be isolated by us (Table 1).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Analysis of the network and graphical representation of the networks presented in Fig. 3 were done with the Java JUNG framework (http://jung.sourceforge.net/) and PAJEK (http://vlado.fmf.uni-lj.si/pub/networks/pajek/). Network representation in Fig. 1 was done with the program yED (http://www.yworks.com/en/products_yed_about.html). [[FIGURE]] 
