!~ABS~! The rice gene ELONGATED UPPERMOST INTERNODE1 (EUI1) encodes a P450 monooxygenase that epoxidizes gibberellins (GAs) in a deactivation reaction. The Arabidopsis genome contains a tandemly duplicated gene pair ELA1 (CYP714A1) and ELA2 (CYP714A2) that encode EUI homologs. In this work, we dissected the functions of the two proteins. ELA1 and ELA2 exhibited overlapping yet distinct gene expression patterns. We showed that while single mutants of ELA1 or ELA2 exhibited no obvious morphological phenotype, simultaneous elimination of ELA1 and ELA2 expression in ELA1-RNAi/ela2 resulted in increased biomass and enlarged organs. By contrast, transgenic plants constitutively expressing either ELA1 or ELA2 were dwarfed, similar to those overexpressing the rice EUI gene. We also discovered that overexpression of ELA1 resulted in a severe dwarf phenotype, while overexpression of ELA2 gave rise to a breeding-favored semi-dwarf phenotype in rice. Consistent with the phenotypes, we found that the ELA1-RNAi/ela2 plants increased amounts of biologically active GAs that were decreased in the internodes of transgenic rice with ELA1 and ELA2 overexpression. In contrast, the precursor GA12 slightly accumulated in the transgenic rice, and GA19 highly accumulated in the ELA2 overexpression rice. Taken together, our study strongly suggests that the two Arabidopsis EUI homologs subtly regulate plant growth most likely through catalyzing deactivation of bioactive GAs similar to rice EUI. The two P450s may also function in early stages of the GA biosynthetic pathway. Our results also suggest that ELA2 could be an excellent tool for molecular breeding for high yield potential in cereal crops.
!~RES~! A Blast search revealed that the Arabidopsis genome encodes two EUI-like (EL) P450s, CYP714A1 and CYP714A2 (CITATION), referred to hereafter as ELA1 and ELA2, respectively. The two Arabidopsis proteins share 72.5% identity with each other, and 38% identity with EUI, and contain all conserved amino acids for heme binding, oxygen binding, and activation, and the ERR (Glu–Arg–Arg) triad motif known to be present in all cytochrome P450 proteins (Figure S1). Interestingly, the two ELA genes are located next to each other with only a 769-bp interval with a retrotransposon next to the ELA1 promoter, suggesting that they might be generated from a simple duplication (Figure S1). To determine the expression patterns of ELA1 and ELA2, we examined β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity histochemically in transgenic plants expressing an ELA1 or ELA2 promoter–GUS reporter fusion transgene (ELA1–GUS or ELA2–GUS). As shown in Figure 1, ELA1–GUS expression was observed in the shoot apical meristem (SAM), petioles of young leaves and emerging leaves, in sepals, stigma, anther and filaments of the developing flowers, and in the receptacle and stigma of the developing siliques (Figure 1a,c and e). Similarly, ELA2–GUS was expressed in the SAM and petioles of young leaves. In contrast, ELA2 was expressed in the leaf margin and petiole vein of cotyledons, with low levels of GUS activity detected in the filaments of developing flowers and no GUS staining detected in siliques (Figure 1b,d and f). Reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR) analysis of ELA1 or ELA2 transcripts confirmed that ELA1 and ELA2 exhibit partially overlapping expression patterns (Figure 1g). These results suggested that ELA1 and ELA2 might be subjected to tissue-specific functionalization through altering expression patterns as is the case with many other GA genes (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Plant P450s are usually anchored on the cytoplasmic surface of the ER and are occasionally associated with the plastids (CITATION; CITATION). Our previous study showed that the rice EUI is localized on the cytoplasmic surface of the ER (CITATION). To determine the subcellular localizations of the two Arabidopsis ELA proteins, we transiently expressed ELA–green fluorescent protein fusions (ELA1–GFP and ELA2–GFP) in onion epidermal cells. As shown in Figures 2(a–c), microscopic analysis of the transformed onion cells revealed a similar fluorescence pattern between the two ELA–GFP proteins and the m-gfp5-ER reporter known to be localized in the ER (CITATION). We also generated a fusion protein between ELA2 and the red fluorescent protein of Discosoma sp. reef coral (DsRED), co-transformed ELA2–DsRED or DsRED with the m-gfp5-ER protein into the onion epidermal cells, and examined their localization patterns. As shown in Figures (2d–i), while there was little overlap between DsRED and gfp5-ER, ELA2–DsRED was found to be co-localized with the m-gfp5-ER. These results indicated that ELA1 and ELA2 are most likely targeted to the ER similar to the rice EUI protein (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate potential roles of ELA1 and ELA2 in GA metabolism, the SALK T-DNA Express database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress/) was searched and one T-DNA insertional mutant for each ELA gene [SALK_016089 (ela1) and SALK_137272 (ela2)] was identified (Figure S2a). The RT-PCR analysis indicated that the two mutants are probably true knockout mutants (Figure S2b). Neither of the single mutants exhibited any observable morphological/developmental phenotype compared with wild-type Col-0 during the entire life cycle (Figure S2c–g). To further investigate the role of ELA1 and ELA2 in GA metabolism and plant development, simultaneous elimination of both ELA genes was desired. However, due to their close chromosome locations, it is impossible to create a double knockout mutant from two identified T-DNA insertional mutants. Instead, we generated an RNA interference (RNAi) transgene for ELA1, transformed the resulting transgene into the ela2 mutant, and generated many independent transgenic lines. Many of the ELA1-RNAi/ela2 transgenic plants had bigger cotyledons, enlarged rosettes, and increased height in comparison with the corresponding wild-type plants (Figure 3a–c), and also flowered 3–5 days earlier than Col-0. A 30–50% increase was observed for the sizes of cotyledons and rosette leaves (Figures 4a and S3). The RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of ELA1 was efficiently silenced in the RNAi plants exhibiting clear morphological phenotypes (Figure 3d). We observed that these ELA1-RNAi/ela2 transgenic mutants also produced larger flowers, longer siliques and bigger seeds than the wild-type during the reproductive stage (Figures 3e–f and S3). Similar phenotypes were also observed in the transgenic ela1 mutants expressing an ELA2-RNAi transgene (data not shown). Scanning electron microscopy suggested that increased plant sizes of ELA1-RNAi/ela2 probably resulted from enlarged/elongated cell size (Figure 4b–d). Taken together, these results indicated that ELA1 and ELA2 function together to inhibit plant growth. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Additional support for the roles of ELA1 and ELA2 in GA-mediated plant growth and development came from our analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpress ELA1 (ELA1-OE), ELA2 (ELA2-OE), or the rice EUI gene (EUI-OE) driven by the constitutively active cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (Figure 5d,e). All transgenic lines displayed severe dwarfism at all growth stages with deep green leaves (Figure 5a–c). These results supported our prediction that ELA1 and ELA2 probably function in GA deactivation, despite our previous failure to detect the GA 16α,17-epoxidase activity for ELA1 using the yeast expression system, likely due to unfavorable assay conditions (CITATION). It is interesting to note that ELA1-OE plants were smallest during the seedling and rosette stages (Figure 5a,b), while at the flowering stage, EUI-OE plants were the severest dwarfs that failed to produce seeds (Figure 5c). This finding suggested that enzymatic kinetics of the three proteins might be regulated by unrecognized co-effector(s) that are developmentally regulated. Consistent with our interpretation, exogenous application with 10 nm GA1, GA3, GA4, and GA9 promoted the growth of the dwarfed ELA1-OE, ELA2-OE, and EUI-OE plants (Figure S4). As expected, GA1 and GA3 could rescue the ELA1-OE, ELA2-OE, and EUI-OE plants, similar to transgenic rice (CITATION). Interestingly, GA4 and GA9 also exhibited obvious rescue activity on these transgenic plants including EUI-OE, probably due to the subtle difference of GA metabolism and signaling between rice and Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We also carefully examined rosette leaves of the transgenic plants overexpressing ELA or EUI. Interestingly, leaf vascular patterns were significantly altered in ELA1-OE and EUI-OE transgenic plants (Figure 6a). The development of leaf vasculature was disrupted in the transgenic plants, particularly in the ELA1-OE leaves without secondary vein development (Figure 6a, insert). Consistent with the growth phenotype, the leaf vascular abnormality is less obvious in ELA2-OE lines. These results not only strengthened the argument of functional similarity between ELAs and EUI but also revealed the critical role of GAs in vascular patterning. Electron microscopy analysis of the leaf transverse sections showed that cell sizes of the palisade and spongy tissues were greatly decreased in these transgenic plants compared with the wild-type control (Figure 6b). As expected, epidermis cells were also smaller on the leaves of ELA-OE or EUI-OE transgenic lines than those of the wild type (Figure 6c). Consistent with their dwarf phenotypes, the hypocotyl epidermal cells of the transgenic plants were significantly shorter than those of the wild-type control with the ELA1-OE epidermal cells being the shortest (Figure 6d). These observations indicated that overexpression of the rice EUI gene or its Arabidopsis homologs could cause multiple defects in cell and organ development. [[FIGURE]] The rice EUI gene feedback or feedforward regulates the genes involved in GA metabolism and signaling in the eui mutant and the Eui overexpressor (CITATION; CITATION). We also found that some GA genes were indirectly regulated by ELA1 and ELA2 expression due to altered GA levels; for instance, GA3ox1 was strongly upregulated in ELA1-OE and ELA2-OE with different levels, and GID1a and GIDc were also slightly upregulated in ELA1-OE (Figure 5f). We also observed that GA2ox2 was upregulated in ELA2-OE plants as well, probably due to accumulated GA12, GA20, and GA53 in the ELA2 overexpression plants (see Figure 8a), which are GA2ox substrates. These results are consistent with the above hypothesis that there is a subtle difference between the ELA1 and ELA2 enzymatic activity, also with the observation that the GID1 genes were slightly different in GA response (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To test if the Arabidopsis ELA genes also function in rice, we generated transgenic rice plants that overexpress ELA1 (ELA1-OER) or ELA2 (ELA2-OER) driven by the 35S promoter. The second and third generations (T1 and T2) of several independent transgenic lines were grown in isolated paddy fields with the wild-type control. Figure 7(a,b) shows that ELA1-OER lines were morphologically similar to the EUI-OE rice plants (CITATION), with severe dwarfism and decreased fertility (Figures 7a,b and S5). This severity of the dwarf phenotype of ELA1-OER plants correlated well with the expression level of the ELA1 transgene, indicating that ELA1 also has a strong GA deactivation activity in transgenic rice (Figure 7d). Similar to what was observed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, ELA2-OER transgenic rice lines displayed the dose-dependent semi-dwarf phenotype (Figures 7a,e and S5). Interestingly, the ELA2-OER plants showed a good morphological pattern for high yield potential, with more fertile tillers than the wild-type (Figure 7f). As a result, grain productivity was significantly higher in the ELA2-OER lines than in the wild-type control (Figure 7g). Our results suggested that ELA2 could be a good tool for molecular breeding for higher-yield cereal crops. [[FIGURE]] To further determine the biochemical function of ELA1 and ELA2 in GA deactivation, endogenous levels of precursor and bioactive GAs in the internodes of transgenic rice constitutively expressing ELA1 and ELA2 and in Arabidopsis ELA1-RNAi/ela2 plants were measured. Our independent assays indicated that the levels of bioactive GAs, including GA4 and GA1, were decreased or undetectable in the rice ELA1-OER and ELA2-OER plants (Figure 8a), similar to those in EUI-OX (CITATION). Intriguingly, we detected slight higher levels of GA12 (approximately 2-fold) in the rice ELA1-OER and ELA2-OER plants, and a higher level of GA19 (3.5-fold) in the rice ELA2-OER plants, which was greatly decreased in ELA1-OER and EUI-OX (Figure 8a). Consistently, we also detected GA20 accumulation in ELA2-OER in comparison with ELA1-OER and EUI-OX (Figure 8a). Furthermore, we detected slightly higher levels of GA4 (2.4-fold) and its immediate precursor GA9 (approximately 2-fold) in the seedlings of ELA1-RNAi/ela2 than in wild-type plants (Figure 8b). Consistent with the finding in rice, the level of GA19 (approximately 0.6-fold) was slightly decreased in ELA1-RNAi/ela2 plants compared with wild-type plants (Figure 8b). In further support of the function of ELA1 and ELA2 in GA catabolism, our additional genetic experiments showed that ectopic expression of ELA1 and ELA2 in the rice EUI-RNAi line (CITATION) greatly compromised the eui phenotype (Figure 8c). These results suggest that ELA1 and ELA2 probably function in the inactivating reaction of bioactive GAs similar to that mediated by the rice EUI P450, and also that the two P450s might function in early stages of the GA biosynthetic pathway, resulting in GA12 accumulation, and ELA2 might display additional activity on GA19 biosynthesis. However, those novel functions for ELA1 and ELA2 remain to be confirmed.
!~MM~! A 500-bp coding region of ELA1 or ELA2 was amplified by PCR and inserted into the RNAi vector pCAMBIA1300RS (provided by Dr Yinong Yang, Penn State University, PA, USA). The construct was transformed into the T-DNA mutant ela2 or ela1 to generate more than 30 independent transgenic lines of ELA1-RNAi/ela2 or ELA2-RNAi/ela1. The stable homozygous lines (T3–T6) of the double mutant were identified and used for phenotypic analysis. Plasmids for overexpression were generated by inserting the full-length coding region of ELA1 and ELA2 into the rice expression vector 35S-C1301 (CITATION) or pCAMBIA2300S (for Arabidopsis transformation with the 35S promoter, provided by Dr Yinong Yang), then transformed into the wild-type Arabidopsis Col-0 and the wild-type rice cultivar TP309 to generate more than 20 independent ELA1 and ELA2 overexpression lines in Arabidopsis and rice (ELA1-OER or ELA2-OER), respectively. Six independent single-insertion transgenic Arabidopsis lines were identified in the T3 generation and used subsequently for phenotypic analyses. Rice lines were assayed with the second and third (T1 and T2) generations grown in the experimental field. Plant height and other agronomic traits were measured in the mature period with more than 30 plants for each line. ELA1 and ELA2 were ectopically expressed in an eui mutant by crossing ELA1-OER or ELA2-OER with a stable EUI RNAi line also in TP309 background (CITATION). The1.6-kb and 1.4-kb promoter regions of ELA1 and ELA2 were isolated and fused to PBI101.1 (ELA1-GUS and ELA2-GUS), respectively. The ELA1-GUS and ELA2-GUS reporter plasmids were introduced into Col-0 to generate independent transgenic lines. GUS activity was histochemically assayed in homozygous lines (T3). According to the genomic locations and sequences of the CYP714A1 (ELA1, At5g24910) and CYP714A2 (ELA2, At5g24900) genes, we got the SALK T-DNA insertion lines SALK_016089 and SALK_137272 from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://abrc.osu.edu/). The mutant SALK_016089 (ela1) contains a T-DNA insert in axon 4 of ELA1, and SALK_137272 (ela2) a T-DNA insert in axon 5 of ELA2. The ELA1–eGFP, ELA2–eGFP and ELA2–DsRED fusions were made by in-frame fusion of the full-length ELA1 and ELA2 cDNA with eGFP or DsRED in the vector 35S-C1301 (CITATION). Transient expression of the fusion proteins and the controls eGFP, DsRED, and the ER-localized m-gfp5-ER (CITATION) in onion epidermal cells was performed using a helium biolistic device (Bio-Rad PDS-1000; http://www.bio-rad.com/) as previously described (CITATION). For western blot analysis, antibodies (antiserum) against the conserved fragment of ELA1 and ELA2 were raised with standard procedure. Protein extracts were prepared from seedlings of Arabidopsis (Col-0, ELA1-OE and ELA2-OE) and rice (the wild-type TP309, ELA1-OER and ELA2-OER). Protein gel blotting was performed using the SuperSignal West chemiluminescence kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Pierce Chemical, http://www.piercenet.com/). Total RNAs were isolated from 3-week-old plants using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) and treated with DNaseI using the DNA-free kit (Ambion, http://www.ambion.com/). First-strand cDNA was synthesized by Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) with poly(T)20 primer. ELA1 and ELA2 were measured by RT-PCR that was performed for 30 cycles with 1 μl of the first-strand cDNA and gene-specific primers in a total volume of 20-μl reaction mixture. The quantitative real-time PCR experiments were performed for the Arabidopsis GA metabolism and signal genes GA3ox1, GA2ox2, GID1a, GID1c, and RGA using a Roche LightCycler with LightCycler FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I kit (Roche, http://www.roche.com/), using the primers as reported previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Primer sequences can be found in Table S1. Plant materials were fixed in a solution of 5% (v/v) acetic acid, 45% (v/v) ethanol, and 5% (v/v) formaldehyde at 4°C overnight and dehydrated in series with ethanol. For scanning electron microscopy, the samples were critical-point dried in liquid CO2 and coated with gold, followed by visualization with a scanning electron microscope (JSM-6360LV, JEOL, http://www.jeol.com/). For histological sections, samples were embedded in Epon812 resin (Emicron, http://www.instrument.com.cn/), and transverse sections were made at 2 μm. Sections were examined microscopically (BX51, Olympus, http://www.olympus.com/) and photographed. For GA measurements, elongating rice second internodes and Arabidopsis seedlings (4 weeks old) were harvested and lyophilized. The analysis methods for extraction and detection are similar to a previous report (CITATION), but modified to include the following 20 targeted GAs: 8/29/23/3/1/6/5/19/13/20/44/34/53/51/7/4/24/15/9/12 [according to liquid chromatography (LC) retention time]. The LC-tandem mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) system used is composed of a Shimadzu UFLC system (http://www.shimadzu.com/) coupled to an Applied Biosystems 4000 QTRAP mass spectrometer (http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/)equipped with a turbo ion spray (TIS) electrospray ion source. Due to a potentially large number of known and unknown GA and related compounds as well as tissue-specific interferences, three multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) transitions/data channels were used for detecting and quantifying each individual GA (apart from GA9-where only two usable MRM transitions are available).
