!~ABS~! Plastids are DNA-containing organelles unique to plant cells. In Arabidopsis, one-third of the genes required for embryo development encode plastid-localized proteins. To help understand the role of plastids in embryogenesis and postembryonic development, we characterized proteins of the mitochondrial transcription termination factor (mTERF) family, which in animal models, comprises DNA-binding regulators of mitochondrial transcription. Of 35 Arabidopsis mTERF proteins, 11 are plastid-localized. Genetic complementation shows that at least one plastidic mTERF, BELAYA SMERT' (BSM), is required for embryogenesis. The main postembryonic phenotypes of genetic mosaics with the bsm mutation are severe abnormalities in leaf development. Mutant bsm cells are albino, are compromised in growth, and suffer defects in global plastidic gene expression. The bsm phenotype could be phenocopied by inhibition of plastid translation with spectinomycin. Plastid translation is essential for cell viability in dicotyledonous species such as tobacco but not in monocotyledonous maize. Here, genetic interactions between BSM and the gene encoding plastid homomeric acetyl-CoA carboxylase ACC2 suggest that there is a functional redundancy in malonyl-CoA biosynthesis that permits bsm cell survival in Arabidopsis. Overall, our results indicate that biosynthesis of malonyl-CoA and plastid-derived systemic growth-promoting compounds are the processes that link plant development and plastid gene expression.
!~RES~! Flowering plants have the highest number of mTERF genes among eukaryotes (Table S1). GFP fusions of all members of the Arabidopsis mTERF family showed that 11 mTERF proteins were targeted to chloroplasts and 17 were mitochondrial, whereas one fusion was distributed equally between the nuclei and the cytoplasm (Fig. S1). Six gene fusions showed no GFP expression. The detection of conserved protein motifs revealed the presence of two motifs specific for Arabidopsis mTERF proteins targeted to the mitochondria (Fig. S2 and Table S2). Integration of genome organization information (CITATION) indicated species-specific gene family expansion through tandem duplication both in rice and Arabidopsis (with 45% and 25% of mTERF homologs in tandem, respectively) (Fig. S3). In contrast, plastid-targeted mTERFs belong to a single subtype, probably representing the ancestral family composition. To determine the involvement of plastid mTERFs in embryo development, we surveyed transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant alleles. Plants with mutations in four genes developed seeds with arrested embryos (Table S3). The bsm mutant has been first identified and first characterized in detail. In a progeny of BSM/bsm plants, 25% of the seeds had embryos arrested at the late globular stage of development (FIG-REF). Immature mutant seeds remained white, indicating a failure of the endosperm and embryo to differentiate chloroplasts. These developmental defects were complemented by the WT BSM protein as well as by its GFP and tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag fusions. [[FIGURE]] Dry seeds with arrested embryos were cultured in vitro. Although WT seeds germinated within 2–3 d, the first germination events with bsm seeds were only observed after 3 wk and led to poorly growing, malformed albino seedlings (FIG-REF). Therefore, to induce cell proliferation and de novo organogenesis, these bsm seedlings were transferred to medium supplemented with cytokinin and auxin, resulting in stable shoot cultures that maintained a slow growth over several years (FIG-REF). DNA gel blot hybridization showed that the shoot cultures were homozygous for the mutant bsm allele and contained chloroplast DNA (FIG-REF). We concluded that phytohormones promote the growth of albino bsm cells. Plastids possess two types of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases, a nuclear-encoded bacteriophage-type RNA polymerase (NEP) and a bacterium-type multisubunit RNA polymerase (PEP). The PEP catalytic core requires products of the plastid genes rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1, and rpoC2 (CITATION). Plastid-encoded class I genes such as rbcL are transcribed predominantly by PEP. Class II genes are transcribed by both PEP and NEP, whereas a few class III genes rpoB and accD, are thought to be transcribed exclusively by NEP (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, rRNA genes belong to class II, but PEP is responsible for most transcriptional activity of rrn16S and rrn23S genes (CITATION). Mature 16S rRNA and 23S rRNA were not detectable in bsm cells (FIG-REF). The PEP-dependent expression of the protein coding genes rbcL and atpA was similarly affected, whereas clpP transcripts levels increased (FIG-REF). A similar response characterized albino tobacco plants mutated in PEP RNA polymerase (CITATION). To understand the changes in clpP transcript size, we analyzed its splicing by RT-PCR. In Arabidopsis, the coding region of clpP is disrupted by two introns that belong to group IIb and group IIa classes. In albino shoots, RT-PCR showed that the second clpP group IIa intron was not spliced (FIG-REF). The last gene exon codes for the 85-aa residues that include two residues of a clpP catalytic triad, indicating that the mutant polypeptide is catalytically inactive (CITATION). The plastid ClpPR protease complex is reported to be essential in both tobacco and Arabidopsis (CITATION). Protein-coding regions of plastid genes for the AtpF subunit of the ATP synthase and ribosomal proteins Rpl2 and Rps12 are interrupted by group IIa introns (CITATION). The production of the rps12 ORF also requires a transsplicing event of a IIb intron. Results showed that rps12 transsplicing was normal but that atpF, rpl2, and rps12 group IIa introns were not spliced in bsm cells (FIG-REF). These nonspliced transcripts encode mutant proteins, of which AtpF1–48 and Rpl21–130 are most probably nonfunctional. Arabidopsis plants with defective atpF splicing are albino (CITATION). RNA editing increases the complexity of the plastid transcriptome, can influence the protein activity, and be affected by pigment deficiency (CITATION, CITATION). Sequencing of cloned cDNA-derived PCR fragments suggested that the clpP and accD transcripts were fully edited in the mutant. Plastomes of most flowering plants encode a MatK maturase that is thought to be a transacting splicing factor for group IIa introns (CITATION). Splicing of the clpP second intron is thought to be MatK-independent (CITATION, CITATION). Inhibiting plastid translation in WT cells with the antibiotic spectinomycin (CITATION) allowed us to replicate the growth-compromised albino phenotype of bsm (FIG-REF). Spectinomycin abolished splicing of atpF, rpl2, and rps12 group IIa introns but not of the clpP second intron (FIG-REF). Thus, processing of the clpP transcript depends on BSM and probably does not require MatK, suggesting a more direct role for BSM in clpP second intron splicing. [[FIGURE]] BSM protein sequence was aligned to create a structural model of the BSM protein with I-TASSER (CITATION), taking advantage of the recently solved crystal structures of human mTERF1 (CITATION). BSM is slightly larger than mTERF1, and the model suggests that BSM consists of a central core that is structurally homologous to the mammalian mTERFs flanked by N- and C-terminal extensions (FIG-REF). The mTERF fold seems to have evolved to mediate protein–nucleic acid interactions. In this respect, the model predicts that BSM should be capable of binding dsDNA and suggests a similar mode of interaction to that observed in human mTERF1 (FIG-REF). Nevertheless, conservation of the critical residues that enable the human mTERF1 to bind and recognize DNA (CITATION) was not observed in BSM, probably reflecting a completely different nucleic acid binding specificity. Moreover, the N- and C-terminal extensions in BSM could conceivably confer additional functionalities to the protein, although it is also possible that they simply allow BSM to interact with a DNA sequence longer than the 21-bp bound by human mTERF1. To verify these conclusions, bacterially produced 6xHis-BSM was refolded on Ni+ beads and incubated with radioactively labeled, double-stranded restriction fragments of cloned Arabidopsis chloroplast DNA. Although 6xHis-BSM bound DNA, no preferential retention of cpDNA fragments was observed (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Next, we characterized BSM protein fusions produced in planta. BSM-GFP was targeted to chloroplasts (FIG-REF). When purified chloroplasts were treated with protease, BSM-TAP proteolysis was facilitated by nonionic detergents, indicating that the protein is localized within plastids (FIG-REF). mTERFs are components of mitochondrial nucleoids in animals (CITATION, CITATION). Chloroplast nucleoids are known to partition both into Triton-insoluble 20,000 × g chloroplast preparations (CITATION) and soluble >3-MDa complexes of chloroplasts (CITATION). In cell extracts prepared with nonionic detergents, Triton X-100 or Nonidet P-40 (FIG-REF), one-half of the BSM-TAP was retained in a soluble complex that did not enter the Blue-Native (BN) polyacrylamide gels at a >2-MDa cutoff. The remainder of the BSM-TAP partitioned into Triton-insoluble 20,000 × g chloroplast preparations. This partitioning was disrupted by digitonin, and on BN gels, digitonin-extracted 70-kDa BSM-TAP comigrated with a discrete band of 200 kDa (FIG-REF), representing either a heteromeric complex or a homomeric trimer. Digitonin sensitivity indicates that BSM could be a component of a peripheral membrane complex. Notably, chloroplast nucleoids are thought to be anchored to the membranes (CITATION). Previous studies have shown that mTERF pTAC15/At5g54180 copurifies with transcriptionally active plastid chromosomes (CITATION). BSM was identified as a component of the soluble nucleoid fraction (CITATION). Plants with a mutation in mTERF At2g03050 have reduced rRNA levels and protein synthesis rates in plastids (CITATION). Taken together, these data suggest that BSM is likely to be implicated in organellar gene expression, possibly in a similar way to the mTERF proteins in metazoans. Tobacco proteins encoded by the plastid genes ycf1, ycf2, clpP, accD, and matK and several components of the translational machinery have been shown to be essential for cell viability (CITATION, CITATION). Our data suggest that a major deficiency of protein translation exists in bsm plastids. To understand why bsm cells are still viable, we applied genetic tests to investigate a possible functional redundancy in the accD gene function. The plastid accD gene encodes the β-carboxyltransferase subunit of the heteromeric acetyl-CoA carboxylase (He-ACC), whereas the other three subunits are encoded by the nuclear CAC genes. He-ACC produces malonyl-CoA that is used for de novo biosynthesis of fatty acids, which in plant cells, occurs almost exclusively in plastids (CITATION). However, because bsm cells are viable, mutant plastids most probably have sufficient malonyl-CoA for fatty acid synthesis. Indeed, analysis of fatty acid composition and content of albino bsm/bsm cells showed that there were no significant differences between mutant and WT cells, except for lower levels of polyunsaturated C18 fatty acid in the mutant and a correspondingly higher level of stearic acid (18:0) and oleic acid (18:1) (Fig. S4). Malonyl-CoA in plastids can also be synthesized by the eukaryotic type, homomeric ACC (Ho-ACC) (CITATION). Analysis of sequenced plant genomes indicates that three groups of plant species exist regarding the capacity for malonyl-CoA biosynthesis (FIG-REF). Some species depend exclusively on an He-ACC (grapevine type), others rely only on an Ho-ACC (corn type), and some use both enzymes (canola type) (CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome contains two genes for Ho-ACC that are positioned on chromosome 1 in a tandem duplication. The ACC1/GURKE/PASTICCINO3 is a cytosolic enzyme (CITATION). Compared with ACC1, the ACC2 encoded by the gene At1g36180 is 107 aa residues longer at the N terminus. The current gene model (The Arabidopsis Information Resource) indicates that At1g36180 can produce two proteins (FIG-REF), but only the 2,356-aa-long ACC2.1 is expected to be fully active. The functional significance of the alternatively spliced, C-terminally truncated ACC2.2 is unclear. We produced ACC21–204-GFP and ACC21–544-GFP in leaf protoplasts, and both protein fusions localized to the chloroplasts (FIG-REF), suggesting that ACC2.1 is indeed a plastid protein. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether BSM and ACC2 interact genetically, we confirmed two T-DNA insertion mutations in the ACC2 gene as annotated in the SALK Institute mutant collection (CITATION). T-DNAs were located in the 21st and 27th exon of the mutant acc2-2 and acc2-1 gene alleles, respectively (FIG-REF and Fig. S5). Homozygous acc2 plants had no obvious mutant phenotype compared with the WT, indicating that He-ACC is the major plastid acetyl-CoA carboxylase in Arabidopsis. Embryos from flowering acc2-1/acc2-1;bsm/BSM or acc2-2/acc2-2;bsm/BSM plants were compared with ACC2/ACC2;bsm/BSM plants that had been selected among the same F2 segregating populations. The acc2-1/bsm and acc2-2/bsm embryo arrested earlier than the ACC2/bsm embryos (FIG-REF), and in addition, seeds with arrested acc2-1/bsm embryos did not germinate in vitro (FIG-REF), indicating synthetic lethality between the bsm and acc2 mutations. Hence cytosolic ACC1 cannot compensate for a deficiency in plastid malonyl-CoA biosynthesis in bsm plastids and functional redundancy in malonyl-CoA biosynthesis in plastids of Arabidopsis promotes bsm cell survival. The bsm cell proliferation defects were partially alleviated by external application of cytokinin and auxin. Because phytohormones have a systemic action, we wondered whether our results were indicative of a noncell-autonomous function of plastids during development. Therefore, we characterized postembryonic mutant phenotypes in mosaic plants generated by heat-inducible CRE-loxP recombination (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] When BSM gene loss was induced in 4-wk-old plants grown on soil, leaves preformed at the time of heat-shock application remained green (FIG-REF). Young leaf primordia at the time of the heat shock, however, developed a proximo-distal gradient of pigment deficiency (FIG-REF). The subsequent three to four leaf primordia developed serrated, small albino leaves, and the youngest emerging leaves were rod-like albino structures (FIG-REF). Mosaics were photoautotrophic plants that often developed large masses of short albino shoots (FIG-REF). Heat stress applied to 5- to 6-wk-old plants resulted in the development of mosaics with albino inflorescence shoots (FIG-REF). Albino flowers on primary shoots had sepals, petals, anthers, and carpels, whereas in flowers of side shoots, only filamentous structures usually developed instead of the internal whorls of petals and anthers. No seeds were obtained after either self-pollination or cross-pollination with WT pollen, indicating major problems with gametophyte development. To characterize the timing of BSM decay after induction of gene deletion, the fate of BSM-TAP was analyzed. BSM protein had a half-life of 3 d in green leaves of mosaics (FIG-REF) but was undetectable in albino tissues. Therefore, the relative stability of the BSM protein present at the time of heat-shock application maintains WT functionality in green tissues, suggesting that WT plastids in mosaic plants produce growth-promoting substances that had not been supplied to the in vitro grown bsm cells. Characterization of foliar cell types showed that significantly less mesophyll cells were present in albino leaves (Fig. S6A), and whereas stomata complex cells and trichomes were recognizable, the epidermis pavement cells did not attain a WT interlocking jigsaw puzzle shape (Fig. S6B). In albino leaves, mutant bsm plastids differentiated as double membrane-bound, often doughnut-shaped small organelles without a developed membrane system (Fig. S6C). Albino leaves were also found to accumulate several abundant polypeptides (Fig. S6D), identified as thioglucoside glucohydrolases TGG1 and TGG2 or myrosinases. In Arabidopsis, myrosinases are specific markers of the myrosin cells of vascular bundles (CITATION) and guard cells of the stomata complex (CITATION). TGG1 is also required for key abscisic acid responses of guard cells (CITATION). The observed proteome phenotype was not, however, caused by ectopic gene activation (Fig. S6 E and F).
!~MM~! The ecotypes and genetic markers were C24, C24 bsm/BSM (this study), Col acc2-1/acc2-1, and Col acc2-2/acc2-2 (SALK Institute Mutant Collection). Plants were grown as described (CITATION). Mutant cell/shoot bsm/bsm lines were maintained on a shoot-inducing medium (MS salts, 20 g/L sucrose, 1 mg/L 6-benzyladenine, 0.1 mg/L α-naphthalene acetic acid). To induce mosaics, plants were heat-stressed at 37 °C. GFP protein fusions were expressed transiently (http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/). Tissue sections were analyzed by light and transmission EM (CITATION), embryos were analyzed by Nomarski optics (http://www.seedgenes.org/Tutorial.html), and protoplasts in isotonic solutions, epidermis peels, or hand sections of leaves in water were analyzed by laser scanning confocal microscopy (CITATION). Surface morphology was examined with a tabletop electron microscope TM-1000 (Hitachi). Sequences were analyzed as described (CITATION). GATEWAY recombinational cloning was used routinely (Invitrogen). mTERF primer sequences are in Table S4. The binary vector for mosaic analysis was pB6Act1 (CITATION). Lipids were extracted from mutant and WT calli, and their fatty acid compositions and contents were quantified through their methyl esters as described (CITATION). The NativePAGE Novex Bis-Tris Gel system (Invitrogen) was used for BN-PAGE. TAP tags were visualized with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase soluble complex P1291 (Sigma-Aldrich) at a 1/1,000 dilution. The GFP antigen was detected with 1/2,000-diluted primary rabbit anti-GFP antibody AB3080 (Chemicon International) and 1/10,000-diluted secondary ECL anti-rabbit IgG horseradish peroxidase-linked whole antibody from donkey NA934V (GE Healthcare). Peroxidase activity was detected with the Western Lightning Chemiluminescence Reagent Plus (Perkin-Elmer) and high-performance chemiluminescent film Hyperfilm ECL (GE Healthcare). 32P-labeled DNA probes were prepared with the nucleic acid labeling Readiprime II random prime labeling system (GE Healthcare). Gene fragments for labeling were amplified by PCR with gene-specific primers (Table S4).
