!~ABS~! In plants, an active defense against biotrophic pathogens is dependent on a functional continuum between the cell wall (CW) and the plasma membrane (PM). It is thus anticipated that proteins maintaining this continuum also function in defense. The legume-like lectin receptor kinase LecRK-I.9 is a putative mediator of CW-PM adhesions in Arabidopsis and is known to bind in vitro to the Phytophthora infestans RXLR-dEER effector IPI-O via a RGD cell attachment motif present in IPI-O. Here we show that LecRK-I.9 is associated with the plasma membrane, and that two T-DNA insertions lines deficient in LecRK-I.9 (lecrk-I.9) have a ‘gain-of-susceptibility’ phenotype specifically towards the oomycete Phytophthora brassicae. Accordingly, overexpression of LecRK-I.9 leads to enhanced resistance to P. brassicae. A similar ‘gain-of-susceptibility’ phenotype was observed in transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing ipiO (35S-ipiO1). This phenocopy behavior was also observed with respect to other defense-related functions; lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 were both disturbed in pathogen- and MAMP-triggered callose deposition. By site-directed mutagenesis, we demonstrated that the RGD cell attachment motif in IPI-O is not only essential for disrupting the CW-PM adhesions, but also for disease suppression. These results suggest that destabilizing the CW-PM continuum is one of the tactics used by Phytophthora to promote infection. As countermeasure the host may want to strengthen CW-PM adhesions and the novel Phytophthora resistance component LecRK-I.9 seems to function in this process.
!~RES~! Analysis of endogenous LecRK-I.9 expression in Arabidopsis Col-0 by RT-PCR revealed LecRK-I.9 transcripts in all tested tissues, i.e., in flowers, siliques, stems, rosette leaves and roots (data not shown). To analyze LecRK-I.9 expression in more detail we used a transgenic Arabidopsis Col-0 line carrying the reporter construct PLecRK-I.9-GUS consisting of the promoter region (−1486 to +9 bp) of LecRK-I.9 fused to the coding sequence of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Analysis of this line, selected because of a single copy insertion and a representative GUS staining pattern CITATION, revealed that LecRK-I.9 is differentially expressed during organ differentiation with very low or no expression in fully differentiated tissues. We inoculated the PLecRK-I.9-GUS reporter line with two P. brassicae isolates; one that is compatible with Col-0 (isolate CBS686.95) and another one (isolate HH) that is incompatible with Col-0 but capable to infect other Arabidopsis accessions CITATION. GUS staining upon inoculation with isolate CBS686.95 was comparable to the staining observed in un-inoculated or mock-treated leaves (CITATION). In both cases we observed a blue color in the petiole, and in the primary veins of rosette leaves but not in leaf epidermal and mesophyll cells. In contrast, inoculation with HH resulted in a significant increase in GUS activity as early as 1 day post-inoculation (dpi). CITATION shows the GUS activity at 6 dpi. A similar increase, also appearing within 1 dpi, was observed in the non-host interaction of Col-0 with P. infestans and upon inoculation with isolate IMI169558 of the necrotrophic grey mold fungus Botrytis cinerea, which can infect and colonize Col-0 (shown in CITATION, respectively, and at 6 dpi). The prominent difference between an incompatible and compatible interaction was also observed by others (C. Balagué and D. Roby, personal communication). They found increased GUS activity within 6 hours after inoculation with the avirulent Pseudomonas syringae strain DC3000(avrRpm1), while in a compatible interaction with P. syringae DC3000 there was only a slight increase in GUS activity. The expression patterns that we observed in the PLecRK-I.9-GUS reporter line are consistent with expression data retrieved from publicly available repositories CITATION. Taken together, these results reveal induction of expression of LecRK-I.9 upon infection with B. cinerea and in incompatible interactions with biotrophic Phytophthora and Pseudomonas pathogens. GUS activity in leaves of a transgenic Arabidopsis line carrying promoter-GUS construct PLecRK-I.9-GUS. (A) In mature non-inoculated leaves GUS activity is localized in the petiole (white arrows) and in veins (black arrows). GUS activity in leaves, 6 days post-inoculation (dpi) with the virulent P. brassicae isolate CBS686.95 (B), the avirulent P. brassicae isolate HH (C), P. infestans IPO-0 (D), 4 dpi with B. cinerea IMI169558 (E), and 2 days after wounding (F). LecRK-I.9 contains a putative transmembrane domain CITATION, and hence hypothesized to be associated with a membrane. To determine the subcellular localization of LecRK-I.9 we constructed the binary vector pS-LecRK-I.9-GFP that is suitable for transient in planta expression of C-terminal GFP-tagged LecRK-I.9. Leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana were co-infiltrated with Agrobacterium strains carrying pS-LecRK-I.9-GFP and pBIN61-mCherry (free mCherry; CITATION) and after 2 to 3 days examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. GFP fluorescence was detected at the cell surface, whereas the red fluorescent signal of free mCherry was found to be distributed in the nucleus and the surrounding cytoplasm, and throughout the cytoplasm lining the cell surface (CITATION). Merging the GFP and mCherry images revealed distinct fluorescence of both GFP and mCherry at the cell surface with GFP more peripheral than mCherry (CITATION). Co-localization of GFP and mCherry was never observed within the nucleus or in the endoplasmic reticulum network that surrounds the nucleus, nor in cytoplasmic strands (data not shown). GFP fluorescence at the plasma membrane and distinct from free mCherry was reproducible in several independent experiments. This demonstrates that in these transient expression assays LecRK-I.9-GFP is targeted to the plasma membrane and points to association of LecRK-I.9 with the plasma membrane. Confocal images of a N. benthamiana epidermal cell transiently expressing LecRK-I.9-GFP and mCherry. Single-channel (i.e., GFP left, mCherry middle) and merged fluorescence images (right). Arrows point towards cytoplasmic strands. Scale bars represent 20 µm. To be able to study the potential function of LecRK-I.9, we obtained two mutant lines with T-DNA insertions just downstream of the translation start site, i.e., lecrk-I.9-1 and lecrk-I.9-2 (CITATION). RT-PCR using gene-specific primers confirmed that both lecrk-I.9 mutant lines lack LecRK-I.9 expression CITATION. Growth behavior and morphology of the two homozygous lecrk-I.9 mutants and the recipient line Col-0 were comparable (data not shown). Also generation time, seed setting and seed germination were not affected in LecRK-I.9 deficient plants. We then compared the response of the lecrk-I.9 mutants and Col-0 to inoculation with P. brassicae. Isolate HH is incompatible with Col-0 and unable to colonize Col-0 plants. In contrast, plug-inoculation of lecrk-I.9 plants with isolate HH resulted in lesions that first appeared 2 days after inoculation and expanded further until complete leaf collapse after 7 days (CITATION). Similar results were obtained when Col-0 and lecrk-I.9 plants were inoculated with zoospores of isolate HH (data not shown). This gain of disease susceptibility was observed in several assays on both lecrk-I.9-1 and lecrk-I.9-2. It is a stable phenotype and the infection efficiency (IE) of isolate HH on the two lecrk-I.9 lines is on average over 80 percent. Trypan blue staining of lecrk-I.9 leaves infected with HH revealed heavy tissue colonization and sporulation (CITATION). This was further confirmed by UV fluorescence microscopy in lecrk-I.9 leaves infected with a GFP-tagged transformant of isolate HH (CITATION) CITATION. Comparable disease symptoms and IE were found when lecrk-I.9 plants were inoculated with P. brassicae isolate II, which is – like isolate HH – incompatible with Col-0 (CITATION). (A) Schematic representation of LecRK-I.9 and its gene product. The coding sequence is 2154 nt in length and has one continuous open reading frame. The two mutant lines lecrk-I.9-1 and lecrk-I.9-2 have a T-DNA insertion (black arrowheads) at position 176 and 566, respectively, relative to the translational start. The LecRK-I.9 protein contains an extracellular legume-like lectin domain (L-lectin), a transmembrane motif (TM), and an intracellular serine/threonine protein kinase domain (STK). (B) Col-0 and lecrk-I.9-1 plants 4 days post-inoculation with P. brassicae isolate HH. Arrows point at lesions. Colonization of lecrk-I.9-1 leaves by P. brassicae isolate HH visualized by trypan blue staining (C) and P. brassicae GFP transformant 155 m revealed by UV epifluorescence (D). Arrows in (C) point at sporangia. Scale bar in (C) represents 100 µm and in (D) 200 µm. To determine the specificity of this gain of disease susceptibility, we performed infection assays with other pathogens. Despite the fact that expression of LecRK-I.9 is induced in response to infection with B. cinerea (CITATION), lecrk-I.9 did not show stronger disease symptoms compared to Col-0. Moreover, inoculation of lecrk-I.9 with the non-host pathogens P. infestans and Alternaria brassicicola, a necrotrophic fungus, did not result in lesion formation and no changes in disease susceptibility were found with respect to the hemibiotrophic fungus Colletotrichum destructivum, which forms a compatible interaction with Col-0. To further investigate the role of LecRK-I.9 in the defense response, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated that constitutively express LecRK-I.9. A construct containing the full-length coding sequence of LecRK-I.9 under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter was transferred to Arabidopsis accession Col-0 via flower-dip transformation. Multiple independent lines were obtained, two of which were selected for further analysis (i.e., C-0123 and C-0126). In comparison to the recipient line Col-0, both 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines had more compact rosettes with smaller and slightly wrinkled leaves (CITATION), and were shorter in height (data not shown). Moreover, the transgenic lines displayed a substantially higher accumulation of anthocyanin and lignin, a phenomenon not observed in Col-0 or the lecrk-I.9 lines (CITATION). Anthocyanin pigmentation and lignin deposition was most intense in mature cotyledons, and along the petioles and midribs of young rosette leaves (CITATION). In comparison to the recipient line Col-0, 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines have more compact rosettes with smaller and slightly wrinkled leaves (A). Anthocyanin (B) and lignin (C) staining in rosette leaves of Col-0 and 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines. When we challenged the two 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines and the recipient line Col-0 with P. brassicae isolate HH we observed no differences. Col-0 is incompatible with HH and this incompatibility with HH is maintained in the 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines (data not shown). Col-0 is compatible though with P. brassicae isolate CBS686.95 and upon inoculation with this isolate, both with mycelium plugs and by drop inoculation with a zoospore suspension, Col-0 leaves became completely colonized. In contrast, such colonization was not observed in the transgenic 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines. These plants showed an elevated level of resistance towards this P. brassicae isolate (CITATION); there were no or only minor disease symptoms but instead there was a hypersensitive response (HR), including an increase in callose deposition, which was not found in Col-0 (CITATION). The experiment was repeated several times with comparable results. No differences in disease progression were observed between Col-0 and the 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines upon inoculation with Botrytis cinerea (data not shown). Arabidopsis leaves inoculated with plugs (A) or zoospores (B and C) of P. brassicae isolate CBS686.95. Pictures were taken 4 days post-inoculation (dpi) (A), 8 dpi (B), and 5 dpi (C). Lesion expansion was observed on Col-0 leaves, but not on leaves from two independent 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines. In (C) leaves were stained for callose (light blue fluorescence). HR; hypersensitive response. Scale bars in (C) represent 50 µm. To examine whether IPI-O functions as an effector that manipulates host defense responses, we generated Arabidopsis transformants carrying a transgene composed of the coding sequence of the P. infestans ipiO1 gene fused to the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter in a Col-0 background. Transgene expression was confirmed by RT-PCR (data not shown). The transformants developed normal and, with respect to morphology and size, they could not be distinguished from Col-0 plants. Multiple independent transformants (35S-ipiO1) were tested for their response to P. brassicae. In contrast to Col-0, which, as expected, exhibited full resistance to P. brassicae isolate HH, the 35S-ipiO1 plants displayed clear disease symptoms 3 days after inoculation with HH (CITATION). The foliar lesions developed gradually over time, and leaves were completely wilted after 7 days. This phenotype was observed in several independent experiments, and the IE on the 35S-ipiO1 plants was comparable (75%) to the IE on lecrk-I.9 lines. Trypan blue staining of infected leaf material revealed massively intercellular hyphal growth and sporulation similar to what was observed in the infected lecrk-I.9 lines (data not shown). Comparable disease symptoms and IE were found when the 35S-ipiO1 plants were inoculated with P. brassicae isolate II (CITATION). Also with respect to infection with the fungi A. brassicicola, C. destructivum and B. cinerea, and the bacterium P. syringae the 35S-ipiO1 plants responded similar as the two lecrk-I.9 lines (CITATION). These results show that in response to pathogens the lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 lines behave as phenocopies. Both lines show (A) gain of susceptibility to P. brassicae, and (B) defects in cell wall integrity. (A) Leaves inoculated with P. brassicae isolate HH 3 days post-inoculation (dpi). (B) Elicitation of plasmolysis in etiolated hypocotyls by treatment with 0.4 M CaCl2. Shown are concave (white arrowheads) and convex (black arrowheads) forms of plasmolysis. In Col-0 only a few cells show convex plasmolysis, in lecrk-I.9 convex shapes occur more frequently whereas in 35S-ipiO1 the majority of cells is convex. Etiolated hypocotyls were stained with neutral red. Scale bars represent 100 µm. based on at least three independent experiments; R, resistant; S, susceptible. S+, more susceptible. C. Balagué and D. Roby, personal communication. Previously, it was shown that exposing Arabidopsis cells to IPI-O protein, obtained by heterologous ipiO expression in E. coli, results in disruption of the CW-PM continuum CITATION. To investigate if ectopic expression of ipiO in Arabidopsis causes the same effect we examined the CW-PM continuum in 35S-ipiO1 plants. Plasmolysis was induced by soaking the hypocotyls in 0.4 M CaCl2. Upon staining with neutral red we observed that in Col-0 the PM readily separated from the CW, but at several points the adhesions between CW and PM were maintained, resulting in pockets that are concave with respect to cells. In contrast, convex forms of plasmolysis were observed in 35S-ipiO1 plants; the PM quickly separated from the CW reaching a near-spherical shape (CITATION), similar to what was previously observed upon adding IPI-O1 protein to Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures CITATION. To exclude that constitutive expression of ipiO leads to secondary effects, indirectly causing disruption of CW-PM continuum, we generated stable transformants in which ipiO1 expression is under control of the alcohol-inducible alcA promoter. Similar to the 35S-ipiO1 transformants, the alcA-ipiO1 transformants were morphological comparable to the parental line Col-0. After exposure of the alcA-ipiO1 plants to 0.01% (v/v) ethanol for 30 min, plasmolyzed hypocotyls displayed a phenotype identical that of 35S-ipiO1 plants: i.e., convex forms of plasmolysis (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, we can conclude that IPI-O causes the loss of CW-PM adhesions. in Col-0 background; based on three independent experiments; percentage observed in one experiment out of three with similar outcome; n = number of examined hypocotyls. A logic next step was to examine the CW-PM adhesions in the phenocopy lecrk-I.9 lines. As shown in CITATION, the convex forms of plasmolysis that were observed in 35S-ipiO1 and alcA-ipiO1 plants were also found in both knock-out lines, lecrk-I.9-1 and lecrk-I.9-2. It should be noted, however, that the relative number of hypocotyls with cells that showed a convex shape of plasmolysis was much less than in the 35S-ipiO1 lines. These observations imply that overexpression of LecRK-I.9 would lead to an increase in the strength of the CW-PM adhesions. Unfortunately, it was not possible to measure this. When we compared plasmolysed cells in hypocotyls from wild-type Col-0 and 35S-LecRK-I.9 lines no differences were observed and even at higher CaCl2 concentration (0.8 M) the shape in the plasmolysed Col-0 cells remained concave. To determine whether CW-PM interactions are disturbed plant cells challenged with Phytophthora, we examined the CW-PM integrity in plasmolysed epidermal cells of N. benthamiana – which can be considered as a host plant CITATION – shortly after infection with P. infestans (i.e., 5-7 hpi). To better visualize penetration, the leaves were inoculated with zoospores of a GFP-labeled P. infestans isolate (88069-GFP). Upon infection, we observed a strong detachment between CW and PM in epidermal cells penetrated by P. infestans. In contrast, this detachment was not observed in uninfected neighboring cells (CITATION). The gain of susceptibility and impairment of cell wall integrity suggests that cell wall associated defense response could be affected in the lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 lines. To investigate this, we analyzed the level of callose deposition in the phenocopy lines after infiltration with P. syringae. Strain DC3000 produces effectors that suppress defense in Col-0 and, as a result, callose deposition is decreased CITATION. The P. syringae hrcC mutant can no longer suppress defense resulting in callose accumulation. Microscopic analysis revealed that DC3000-infiltrated leaves did not (or hardly) display callose deposition in Col-0, and neither in lecrk-I.9 nor in 35S-ipiO1 lines (CITATION). As expected, Col-0 leaves infiltrated with the P. syringae hrcC mutant displayed a significant increase of callose deposition but in contrast, this increase was not observed in hrcC infiltrated leaves of lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 plants (CITATION). Similarly, infiltration with the oligopeptide flg22 resulted in extensive callose deposition in Col-0, but hardly any callose deposition was found in lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 lines (CITATION). This points at a defect in MAMP-triggered callose deposition in both, the lecrk-I.9 and 35S-ipiO1 lines. (A) Arabidopsis leaves stained with aniline blue after infiltration with Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 and hrcC. (B) Average totals of callose deposition (µm2) and associated 95% confidence intervals (CIs) after infiltration with DC3000 and hrcC (n = >16) (C). Callose deposition after infiltration with flg22. (D) Average totals of callose deposition after treatment with flg22 (µm2) +95% CIs (n = >10). Scale bars in (A) and (C) represent 50 µm. We then addressed the role of the RGD motif in IPI-O and questioned if RGD is a determinant of the phenotypic changes observed in Arabidopsis upon ectopic ipiO1 expression. We therefore generated transgenic lines carrying ipiO1 constructs with site-directed mutations changing RGD to RGE or RGA. Two independent 35S-ipiO1 RGE lines, one alcA-ipiO1 RGE line and two alcA-ipiO1 RGA lines were tested in a plasmolysis assay. In none of these lines a convex type of plasmolysis was observed, and as in Col-0 the CW-PM adhesions remained intact (CITATION). This is in agreement with the previous results that showed that in cell suspension cultures exogenously added mutant forms of IPI-O1 (IPI-O1RGE and IPI-O1RGA) had no disrupting effect CITATION. Subsequently, we examined how a RGD-to-RGE mutation in IPI-O1 affects susceptibility to P. brassicae. As described above Col-0 exhibited full resistance to P. brassicae isolate HH whereas the leaves of 35S-ipiO1 plants were completely wilted leaves 5 days post-inoculation. On the two independent 35S-ipiO1 RGE lines no lesions appeared and the phenotype was comparable to the incompatible interaction between Col-0 and HH (CITATION). Taken together, these results show that the RGD cell adhesion motif in IPI-O is crucial for disruption of the CW-PM continuum, as well as the gain of susceptibility to P. brassicae. Arabidopsis transgenic lines expressing ipiO1 with a RGD-to-RGE targeted mutation show no gain of susceptibility to P. brassicae HH. Arabidopsis leaves inoculated with P. brassicae strain HH 5 days post-inoculation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil or in vitro on solid MS medium (4.4 g/l Murashige and Skoog salts (Duchefa), 0.5% (w/v) sucrose and 1% (w/v) plant agar). Arabidopsis was grown in a conditioned growth chamber at 21–22°C with a 16 h photoperiod and at a relative humidity of 75–80%. Transgenic plants and T-DNA insertion lines were in Col-0 background. The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants lecrk-I.9-1 (SALK_042209), and lecrk-I.9-2 (SALK_024581) were obtained from the European Arabidopsis stock centre NASC (http://arabidopsis.info), and analyzed as described by Gouget (2005) CITATION. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown under standard greenhouse conditions. Botrytis cinerea strain IMI169558 and Alternaria brassicicola strain MUCL20297 were grown and maintained at 22°C on malt agar and potato dextrose agar plates, respectively. Infection assays of Arabidopsis with B. cinerea and A. brassicola were performed as described by Van Esse et al. (2007) CITATION. Colletotrichum destructivum strain IMI349061 was propagated at 22°C on Mathur's agar plates and inoculum was prepared as previously described CITATION. Arabidopsis leaves were drop-inoculated with a conidial suspension (1*106 spores ml−1), and subsequently incubated at 22°C in trays covered with lids to maintain high humidity. Phytophthora infestans strain IPO-0, and the GFP-transformant 88069-GFP were grown on rye agar medium supplemented with 20 g l−1 sucrose at 18°C CITATION and zoospores were isolated as described in Champouret et al., 2008 CITATION. P. brassicae strains HH, II, CBS686.95 and the HH GFP-transformant 155 m CITATION were grown at 18°C on 10% V8-juice agar plates CITATION, and zoospores were obtained as described in Bouwmeester and Govers, 2009 CITATION. Inoculation was performed by placing plugs of young mycelium (Ø 5 mm) or 10 µl drops of a zoospore suspension (1*105 zoospores ml−1) on the abaxial leaf surface. Inoculated plants were kept in trays covered with lids to maintain a high humidity and placed in the dark, and placed in a growth chamber with a 16 h photoperiod at 18°C and a RH of 75%. The first day the trays were kept in the dark. After two days the mycelial plugs were removed from plants to stop the facilitation of nutrition from the agar medium. Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strains were grown on King B agar supplemented with the appropriate antibiotics at 28°C. Arabidopsis leaves were spray-inoculated with bacterial suspensions of 1*109 colony-forming units (cfu) ml−1, and incubated as earlier described CITATION. Infection efficiencies (IEs) were calculated as percentages of successful infections relative to the total number of inoculations (n>72). All infection assays were performed at least 3 times. For cloning ipiO1 (GenBank: L23939.1) in binary vectors ipiO1 fragments were PCR amplified from the plasmids pPIN18-c, pMBP-IPIO1D56A and pMBP-IPIO1D56E, respectively, using primers IPIOXHO-F and MAL-R (Table S1) CITATION. PCR fragments were purified and digested with XhoI and PstI to release a 550 bp fragment containing the coding region of ipiO1, starting immediately after the signal peptide cleavage site, and ligated into the XhoI/PstI digested vector pRH80 CITATION. Fragments containing the ipiO1 coding region fused to the TPI-II terminator sequence were released by digesting with XhoI and EcoRI, purified and ligated into XhoI/EcoRI-digested binary vector pRH90 CITATION thereby fusing the ipiO1 coding sequence to the tobacco PR1a signal peptide sequence. The resulting binary plasmids were named pRW100, pRW101 and pRW102 with the latter two carrying RGD-tripeptide mutations E56A and D56E, respectively. Amplicons obtained by PCR amplification on pRW100, pRW101 and pRW102 with the primers PstPR1a and PR1 were digested by PstI and ligated into the PstI-digested vector pACN (Table S1) CITATION. These plasmids were digested with HindIII, and the fragments were ligated into the HindIII-digested vector binSRNACatN CITATION. In the resulting binary plasmids pRW110, pRW111 and pRW112, the ipiO1 coding sequence is fused to the ethanol-inducible promoter of the alcA gene. For cloning the full-length coding sequence of LecRK-I.9 (GenBank: NM_125423.2) driven by the 35S CaMV promoter in a binary vector, a PCR was performed on BAC clone F15L12.17 with primers pK60300-s and pK60300-as or pK60300ms-as (Table S1). PCR fragments were cloned in pENTR/D-TOPO. LR recombination enabled cloning into binary vector pK2GW7 (http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway) CITATION and pSOL2095 resulting in plasmids pK-35S-LecRK-I.9 and pS-35S-LecRK-I.9-GFP, respectively. Cloning steps were verified by sequencing. Binary vectors were transformed to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 or AGL1 and cultured on medium containing the appropriate antibiotics. Arabidopsis thaliana accession Col-0 was transformed by the floral dip method CITATION. Transformed plants were selected on MS agar with 50 mg/l kanamycin. Rooted seedlings were subsequently transferred to potting soil. Multiple independent lines were selected. Agroinfiltration assays were performed as previously described CITATION. Leaves of 4–5 week old N. benthamiana plants were co-infiltrated in a 1∶1 ratio with A. tumefaciens suspensions of OD 0.5–1.0, and were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, 2–3 days after infiltration. For GUS histochemical staining, Arabidopsis tissues were immersed and vacuum-infiltrated in X-gluc staining buffer [50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.0, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucorunide (X-gluc, Biosynth, Staad, Switzerland), 1 mM K3Fe(CN)6*3H2O), 1 mM K4Fe(CN)6*3H2O and 10 mM EDTA] and incubated overnight at 37°C. Chlorophyll was removed by incubation in a 50–96% ethanol series. GUS stained samples were examined at low magnification under brightfield illumination. Pictures of GUS-stained tissues shown in this paper are representative results from at least three independent experiments. Neutral red staining and plasmolysis of etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings was performed as previously described with minor modifications CITATION. Etiolated seedlings were incubated in a 0.05% neutral red solution for 30 min and rinsed afterwards in distilled water. Plasmolysis was induced by the addition of 0.4 M CaCl2. Pictures were taken after 5 min of plasmolysis. Trypan blue staining was performed as described earlier CITATION. Lignification was visualized as earlier described by Mohr and Cahill (2007) CITATION. In brief, leaves were cleared in ethanol and incubated overnight in a phloroglucinol-ethanol mixture, and subsequently placed for 5 min in 20% HCl and washed with water. To visualize anthocyanin pigmentation, leaves were incubated overnight in the dark at 4°C in 80% methanol containing 1% HCl. Brightfield and fluorescence microscopy was performed with a Nikon 90i epifluorescence microscope (Nikon, Amstelveen, The Netherlands). GFP and mCherry were visualized using a GFP-B (EX 460–500, DM 505, BA 510–560) and a TRITC (EX 540/25, DM 565, BA 606/55) filter cube. Confocol laser scanning microscopy was performed using a Zeiss Confocor 2–LSM 510 (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany). GFP and mCherry were excited with an Argon (488 nm line) and HeNe (543 nm line) laser, respectively. Fluorescence was captured through the band-pass emission filters BP505-530 (GFP) and 600–650 nm (mCherry). To visualize callose deposition, Arabidopsis leaves were harvested approximately 18 h after inoculation with bacteria or infiltration with 10 µM flg22, cleared overnight in an ethanol series (70–96%) and stained with 1% (w/v) aniline blue in 150 mM K2HPO4 (pH 9.5) for 1 h. Stained leaves were mounted in 50% glycerol, and fluorescent callose deposits were viewed using epifluorescence microscopy (DAPI filter; EX340-380, DM 400, BA 435-4850). Images of randomly selected fields were captured using a Nikon DS-5Mc digital camera and processed with ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) to calculate the total area (µm2) of callose deposits. Values in CITATION are the average of at least 16 and 10 microscopic fields, respectively. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Total RNA of Arabidopsis was isolated and purified using a NucleoSpin RNA Plant kit (Macherey-Nagel). RT-PCR was performed on a ABI7300 Real Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems) with use of a SYBR Green I qPCR kit (Eurogentec) and gene-specific primers (Table S1). IPI-O1; Q01918 LecRK-I.9; Q9LSR8/Q56XH0
