!~ABS~! ATP acts as an extracellular signal molecule in plants. However, the nature of the mechanisms that export this compound into the apoplast are under debate. We identified the protein PM-ANT1 as a candidate transporter able to mediate ATP export. PM-ANT1 joins the mitochondrial carrier family, lacks an N-terminal amino acid extension required for organelle localization, and locates to the plasma membrane. Recombinant PM-ANT1 transports ATP, and the gene is substantially expressed in mature pollen grains. Artificial microRNA (amiRNA) mutants show reduced silique length and less seeds per silique but increased seed weight associated with unchanged pollen viability. Anthers from amiRNA mutants exhibited a normal early development, but stomium breakage is inhibited, leading to impaired anther dehiscence. This results in reduced self-pollination and thus decreased fertilization efficiency. amiRNA pollen grains showed increased intracellular ATP levels but decreased extracellular ATP levels. The latter effects are in line with transport properties of recombinant PM-ANT1, supporting in planta that functional PM-ANT1 resides in the plasma membrane and concur with the PM-ANT1 expression pattern. We assume that PM-ANT1 contributes to ATP export during pollen maturation. ATP export may serve as an extracellular signal required for anther dehiscence and is a novel factor critical for pollination and autogamy.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes 58 predicted MCF-type carrier proteins, and a phylogenetic analysis classified PM-ANT1 as a member of the MCF, forming a monophyletic subcluster with the three mitochondrial ADP/ATP carriers AAC1-3 (CITATION). Within this subcluster, PM-ANT1 shows highest structural identity with the ER-located ATP/ADP carrier ER-ANT1 (33% identity; 53% similarity) followed by the mitochondrial protein AAC1 (30% identity; 48% similarity). The sequence of PM-ANT1 consists of 330 amino acids exhibiting three tandem repeats of ~100 residues and six predicted transmembrane helices (Figure 1). Both the presence of three tandem repeats and three conserved mitochondrial energy transfer signatures (METS) in PM-ANT1 (Figure 1) are characteristic features of all MCF-type carriers (CITATION; CITATION). Similar to the ER-located ATP/ADP carrier ER-ANT1, but in contrast with the mitochondrial proteins AAC1, AAC2, and AAC3, PM-ANT1 does not possess a putative N-terminal transit peptide (Figure 1). However, such sequence extension in plant AAC proteins is strictly required for targeting to the inner mitochondrial membrane (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] A comprehensive study of amino acids essential for the function of mitochondrial AACs suggests a putative biochemical function for PM-ANT1 as an ATP/ADP transporter. For example, the presence of a so-called nucleotide carrier signature consisting of the amino acid sequence RRRMMM is a unique signature for all MCF-type ATP/ADP carriers like AAC1-3 and ER-ANT1 (CITATION; CITATION) and is also present in PM-ANT1 with the first Met replaced by the structurally related Ile residue (Figure 1). However, the three Arg residues in the nucleotide carrier signature are only part of in total six Arg residues (Arg-107, Arg-215, Arg-264, Arg-265, Arg-266, and Arg-307) found to be crucial for the ADP/ATP transport activity of the yeast AAC2 protein (CITATION). Furthermore, the structure of the bovine AAC1 monomer was solved at a resolution of 2.2 Å by x-ray crystallography (CITATION). Several clusters of charged amino acids were identified as being potentially involved in substrate binding and therefore are fundamental for the function of mitochondrial AACs. In the translocation channel of bovine AAC1, a cationic cluster consisting of two Lys and six Arg residues (Lys-22, Lys-32, Arg-79, Arg-137, Arg-234, Arg-235, Arg-236, and Arg-279) directed to the substrate was identified. The positions of their side chains were stabilized by an intricate hydrogen bond network and electrostatic interactions involving water molecules and acidic or polar side chains of Glu-29, Asp-134, Asp-231, Gln-36, Glu-264, and Asn-276. Most of these important charged or polar amino acids are conserved in PM-ANT1, namely, Lys-55, Arg-107, Arg-215, Arg-264, Arg-265, Arg-266, and Arg-307 and Glu-52, Asp-163, Asp-263, Gln-59, Glu-292, and Asn-304, but the basic amino acid Lys-22 is replaced by the basic amino acid His-45 (Figure 1). In summary, the high conservation of amino acid residues critical for the function of mitochondrial AACs indicates a function for PM-ANT1 as an adenylate transport protein. We tried to synthesize recombinant PM-ANT1 in yeast or Xenopus laevis oocytes. After expression of PM-ANT1 constructs, the corresponding cells were incubated for different periods of time in radioactively labeled ATP, but no net uptake above the background was detectable. However, it has frequently been shown that heterologous synthesis of other nucleotide transporters (e.g., the three plant mitochondrial AACs, the ER-located ATP/ADP carrier ER-ANT1 from Arabidopsis, and various plant-derived NTT-type ATP carriers in E. coli) lead to their functional integration into the bacterial cytoplasmic membrane, with transport properties similar to those obtained across the authentic membranes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Heterologous synthesis of PM-ANT1 in E. coli also results in the integration of this carrier into the bacterial membrane because after isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction, a substantial fraction of the recombinantly synthesized PM-ANT1 migrated according to the calculated molecular mass of ~36.9 kD (Figures 2A and 2B). [[FIGURE]] Uptake studies with radioactively labeled [α-32P]ATP or [α-32P]ADP into intact bacterial cells harboring PM-ANT1 revealed the time-linear import of both nucleotides for ~5 min, whereas, by contrast, noninduced E. coli cells hardly imported adenylates (Figure 2C). The import of radioactively labeled ATP or ADP by recombinant PM-ANT1 into E. coli cells displayed typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics with apparent Km values of 284 μM (±21.4 μM) for ATP (Figure 2D) and 422 μM (±38.1 μM) for ADP (Figure 2E). Competition experiments with 29 different potential substrates showed that PM-ANT1 is mainly inhibited by purine and pyrimidine (deoxy)trinuceotides but not by nicotine-amid dinucleotides or nucleotide sugar derivatives (Table 1). The uncoupler compound CCCP does not inhibit ATP uptake by PM-ANT1 (Table 1), indicating that transport is not energized by a proton motif force. Effects of Various Metabolites on [α-32P]ATP Transport by PM-ANT1 The subcellular localization of PM-ANT1 was not predictable by the computer programs TargetP (CITATION) and SignalP (CITATION). Moreover, the lack of any putative plastidic or mitochondrial transit peptide (Figure 1) was confirmed by the use of the programs ChloroP and MitoProt (CITATION; CITATION). We investigated the subcellular localization of PM-ANT1 in planta by the generation of a PM-ANT1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion and transient expression in intact tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts (Figure 3; note, most genes coding for membrane proteins are notoriously weakly expressed, making the use of a 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter for transient expression unavoidable). After expression of the constructed PM-ANT1-GFP gene, a fluorescence signal could be detected at the plasma membrane (Figure 3A). This conclusion about the subcellular localization is supported by the corresponding chloroplast autofluorescence (Figure 3B), the merged image (Figure 3C), and the colocalization of PM-ANT1-GFP and the plasma membrane–bound aquaporin fusion protein PIP2a-mcherry (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] To study PM-ANT1 gene expression in planta, we analyzed 14 independent PM-ANT1-promoter-GUS (for β-glucuronidase) Arabidopsis lines for reporter gene activity. Thirteen of these lines showed a very similar expression pattern, varying only slightly in the intensity of GUS staining. In flowers, PM-ANT1 gene expression is mainly visible in anther tissue and the style (Figure 4A). Pollen grains located on the stigma also show high PM-ANT1 expression (Figure 4B) and young leaf veins, and the central cylinder from developing roots are also characterized for high PM-ANT1 expression (Figures 4C and 4D). Relative PM-ANT1 gene expression does not change during leaf development, and corresponding mRNA accumulation in roots is due to expression in proto- and meta-phloem (Genevestigator; CITATION). A closer examination of GUS staining in developing anthers revealed that this staining is in fact due to substantial PM-ANT1 expression in pollen grains located inside the closed anther (Figure 4E). In siliques harboring developing seeds, PM-ANT1 expression reached high levels and decreased to the lower sensitivity level during maturation of this organ (Figure 4F). [[FIGURE]] PM-ANT1 expression during pollen maturation was extracted from microarray experiments (CITATION). In unicellular pollen, relative PM-ANT1 transcription reached a value of ~125 and increased constantly during microgametogenesis. In mature pollen grains, PM-ANT1 transcript was about fourfold above the level present at the beginning of pollen development (unicellular pollen) (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). To obtain insight into the physiological impact of PM-ANT1, we intended to make use of transgenic plants. Two independent heterozygous PM-ANT1::T-DNA Arabidopsis mutants carrying a T-DNA insertion either at the very end of the sole exon or at the beginning of the 3′-untranslated region, respectively, were provided by the SALK library (CITATION). After backcrossing, homozygous T-DNA lines were identified by PCR of genomic DNA; however, quantitative RT-PCR using PM-ANT1-specific primers exhibited an unchanged PM-ANT1 transcript level in these mutants. Thus, we decided to construct artificial microRNA (amiRNA) mutant lines. Selection of suitable DNA sequences was conducted according to CITATION and http://wmd2.weigelworld.org. After transfer into the genome of wild-type plants, we were able to identify various independent 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines; most of them showed PM-ANT1 mRNA levels similar to wild-type plants. However, by testing the PM-ANT1 transcript level in ~100 independent mutants, we were able to identify, among others, the strong 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15. In these mutant lines, the PM-ANT1 mRNA levels are reduced to ~26% in line 6 and to 23% in line 15 of wild-type levels (Figure 5A). To exclude unspecific effects on pollen grains due to the knockdown approach per se (CITATION), we included 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 9 in our investigations. The latter mutant showed mRNA levels similar to wild-type plants (Figure 5A) and is thus expected to behave similarly. [[FIGURE]] After growing for 12 weeks in the climate-controlled growth chambers, a phenotypic difference between the strong 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 and the wild-type line was obvious (Figure 5B). Both mutant lines showed significantly reduced numbers of fully developed siliques, whereas mutant line 9 exhibited silique development similar to wild-type plants (Figure 5B). The distorted silique development in mutant lines 6 and 15 correlated with decreased numbers of fully developed seeds (Figures 5C and 5D), whereas the control 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 9 and wild-type plants exhibited unaltered numbers of seeds per silique (Figures 5E and 5F). Measurements of the average silique lengths allowed quantification of differences between wild-type and mutant lines. Wild-type plants and mutant line 9 showed average silique lengths of ~15 mm, whereas 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 exhibited average silique lengths of only 6 and 9 mm, respectively (Figure 6A). Similarly, the average number of seeds per silique was similar in the wild type and weak 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 9 (between 56 to 64 seeds per silique), whereas 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 exhibited significantly decreased seed numbers per silique, ranging from 11 seeds per silique in line 6 to 21 seeds per silique in line 15 (Figure 6B). Remarkably, the average seed weight appeared to be reciprocal to the number of seeds per silique. Both the wild type and 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 9 showed a 1000 seed weight of ~18 mg, whereas that of mutant line 15 was 24 mg and that of mutant line 6 was 33 mg (Figure 6C). [[FIGURE]] The observation that 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines exhibited fewer seeds per silique (Figures 5B and 6B) might indicate that mutant plants exhibit impaired male or female fertility. To control pollen fitness, we pollinated wild-type (+/+) stigma with pollen grains from heterozygous mutant lines 6 or 15 (+/line 6 or +/line 15). To test female gametophytic fertility, we pollinated the stigma from both heterozygous mutant lines with wild-type pollen grains. As controls, we allowed self-fertilization of the two heterozygous 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15. Genetic transmission efficiency was subsequently quantified by analyzing kanamycin resistance of successor seedlings, which is expected to cosegregate with 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Transfer of pollen from heterozygous mutant lines 6 and 15 to wild-type stigma led to 15 and 16 kanamycin-resistant seedlings, respectively, and 15 and 17 kanamycin-sensitive seedlings (see Supplemental Table 1 online). These numbers lead to 50 and 48.5%, respectively, antibiotic-resistant plants and can be taken as an indication that pollen fitness of 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 is unaltered when compared with the wild type. Alternatively, pollination of a wild-type pistil with pollen derived from heterozygous mutant lines 6 and 15 led to 54 and 89 kanamycin-resistant seedlings, respectively, and 49 and 63 kanamycin-sensitive seedlings (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The corresponding ratios are 52.9 and 58.6%, which also indicate intactness of the female gametophyte (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Control pollination by self-fertilization leads in both mutant lines to ~75% of kanamycin-resistant seedlings (see Supplemental Table 1 online), which is fully in line with the conclusion that both male and female gametophytes did not show altered properties when compared with the wild type. Nuclear phenotypes and pollen morphology were further analyzed by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) and Alexander staining. DAPI staining revealed that pollen from all plant lines possess a larger diffusely stained vegetative nucleus and two stained sperm cell nuclei (see Supplemental Figures 3A to 3D online). Similarly, the morphology of wild-type and mutant pollen is identical as revealed by Alexander staining (see Supplemental Figures 3E to 3H online). To identify the origin of the decreased pollination efficiency observed in 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15, we analyzed the presence of pollen tubes in fully mature pistil tissues from wild-type and mutant lines. Interestingly, pistils from wild-type and mutant line 9 are characterized by the presence of many pollen tubes, as visualized by bright pollen tube staining with Aniline blue (see Supplemental Figures 3I and 3K online). By contrast, pistils from mutant lines 6 and 15 showed substantially reduced numbers of pollen tubes. In the style of mutant line 6, pollen tubes were not visible, and in the style from mutant line 15, only four to five individual pollen tubes were apparent (see Supplemental Figures 3J and 3L online). The fact that PM-ANT1 is highly expressed in mature pollen grains (Figure 3; see Supplemental Figure 2 online) and the reduced silique development in 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 mutants (Figures 5B to 5F) provoked us to analyze the morphology of the corresponding flowers in more detail. Flowers from both the wild type and the three 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines developed with the same velocity, leading after 12 weeks to fully opened organs, possessing all structures required for pollination (Figures 7A to 7D). However, a closer look at the anther morphology revealed that 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 exhibited impaired anther opening (Figures 7B and 7D), whereas anthers from the wild type and line 9 were fully opened and decorated with pollen grains (Figures 7A and 7C). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether impaired dehiscence was caused by a morphological abnormality of the anthers, we analyzed transverse sections of the representative mutant line 6 and wild-type anthers. About 3 d before flower opening, anthers from both the wild type and mutant line 6 were closed and harbored nearly fully developed pollen grains (Figures 7E and 7G). Furthermore, other cell structures associated with the anther, such as epidermis, endothecium, tapetum, stomium, and connective and vascular bundles, appeared to be normally developed. However, during progression of growth, wild-type anthers dehisced at the stomium and expelled the previously embedded pollen grains (Figure 7F), whereas anthers from 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 6 did not dehisce and thus did not provide the functional intact pollen grains (see Supplemental Table 1 online) at the anther surface, while the stigma was receptive for pollination (Figure 7H). As demonstrated above, PM-ANT1-GFP resides in the plant plasma membrane, the corresponding gene is substantially expressed in pollen grains, and the carrier transports ATP after recombinant synthesis in E. coli (Figures 2 to 4). Thus, we tested whether pollen grains enriched from the wild type or 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines showed altered internal and external ATP levels. For this, we isolated pollen grains from the corresponding anthers, suspended them in germination medium, and quantified ATP in intact pollen grains and after exportation into the medium via Luciferase/Luciferin-induced luminescence. Pollen grains from the wild type and 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 line 9 contained similar ATP levels, approaching ~39 pmol/μg protein (Figure 8A). By contrast, pollen cells from 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 lines 6 and 15 contained significantly increased internal ATP levels, namely, 60 pmol ATP/μg protein in pollen from mutant line 6 and 52 pmol ATP/μg protein in pollen from mutant line 15 (Figure 8A). Wild-type and mutant line 9 exported ATP at similar rates, approaching ~4.5 pmol ATP/μg protein in 5 min (Figure 8B). Interestingly, although the internal ATP concentration in pollen cells from mutant lines 6 and 15 was higher than in wild-type pollen (Figure 8A), the rates of ATP export into the germination medium were substantially decreased when compared with wild-type and mutant line 9 pollen cells. Pollen from mutant line 6 exported ~1.7 pmol ATP/μg protein within 5 min of incubation, and pollen from mutant line 15 exported only 2.2 pmol ATP/μg protein (Figure 8B). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia-0) were used. Prior to germination, seeds were imbibed for 24 h in the dark at 4°C (CITATION), in standardized ED73 soil. Plant growth was performed at 22°C in a 10-h-light/14-h-dark climate-controlled chamber (Percival growth chambers; CLF Plant Climatics). After development of a leaf rosette (~4 to 5 cm), the light phase was prolonged (16-h-light/day) to induce flowering until the life cycle was completed. Multiple alignments of protein sequences were performed with the program ClustalX (CITATION). To construct PM-ANT1-GFP fusion proteins, the coding region of PM-ANT1 was amplified by PCR on first-strand cDNA from Arabidopsis leaf tissues and inserted in frame with the GFP coding region of the vector pGFP2 (CITATION) using the primers PM-ANT1_gfp_for and PM-ANT1_gfp_rev (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Protoplasts isolated from sterile-grown tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv W38) were transformed with column-purified plasmid DNA (30 mg/1.5*106 cells; CITATION). After 24 h of incubation at 24°C in the dark, protoplasts were analyzed for the presence of green fluorescence using a Leica TCS SP5II confocal microscope system. GFP was excited at 488 nm, and the emission was detected at 505 to 540 nm using a ×63 water objective. To construct E. coli plasmids expressing PM-ANT1 with a N-terminal His tag, the coding region of PM-ANT1 was amplified by PCR on first-strand cDNA from Arabidopsis leaf tissues and introduced into the IPTG-inducible expression vector pET16b (Novagen) using the primers PM-ANT1_pet16b_for and PM-ANT1_pet16b_rev (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The E. coli strain Rosetta 2 (pLysS; Novagen) was exploited for heterologous synthesis. Uptake experiments with E. coli cells after synthesis of PM-ANT1 were performed as described earlier (CITATION; CITATION). SDS-PAGE was performed as described earlier (CITATION) and stained with Coomassie Brillant Blue R 250 or used for immunoblots. For the histochemical localization of promoter activity, a 1259-bp promoter region of PM-ANT1 was amplified by PCR on genomic DNA and inserted upstream of the GUS gene of pGPTV (CITATION) using the primers PM-ANT1_gus_for and PM-ANT1_gus_rev (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The resulting construct was transformed in the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Transformation of Arabidopsis was conducted according to the floral-dip method (CITATION). Tissue from transgenic plants was collected in glass vials previously loaded with ice-cold 90% acetone and incubated for 20 min at room temperature. Subsequently, the samples were stained according to standard protocols (CITATION). A suitable target site for the microRNA was identified by following the instructions on http://wmd2.weigelworld.org. The 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 construct was cloned according to the protocol as described by CITATION with minor changes. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The PCR amplification product, including the specific amiRNA, was subsequently cloned into the pA35S vector and finally into the plant transformation vector pCambia 2200 (CITATION). Transformation of Arabidopsis was conducted according to the floral-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected based on kanamycin resistance conferred by the nptII gene present in pCambia 2200. Total RNA was prepared from Arabidopsis leaf tissues using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). To remove any contaminating DNA, the samples were treated with DNase (RNase-free DNase Kit; Qiagen). Quantitative PCR was performed using MyIQ-Cycler (Bio-Rad) and IQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions with the following cycler conditions: 20 min at 50°C, 15 min at 95°C, and 55 cycles of 15 s at 95°C, 25 s at 58°C, and 40 s at 72°C. The gene-specific oligonucleotides used for real-time RT-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The elongation factor EF-1α was used for quantitative normalization (CITATION). For observation of anther transverse sections, flower buds were embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus-Kulzer) according to user instructions. Ten-micrometer sections were prepared and stained with 0.5% Toluidine blue. Images were acquired using a Cannon PowerShot G5 camera coupled to a Zeiss Axioskop 50 microscope. All other images were acquired using a Leica DFC 420C camera coupled to a Leica MZ10F stereomicroscope. For quantification of intra- and extracellular ATP levels, pollen were isolated essentially as described (CITATION). Therefore, 60 freshly opened flowers were collected in germination medium and agitated briefly by shaking. Then, the flower parts were removed with a pair of forceps, and the pollen grains were pelleted for 30 s at 800g and resuspended with 100 μL fresh germination medium. Pollen grains in 20 μL suspension were disrupted by ultrasound and used for protein quantification (CITATION). For intracellular ATP measurement, another 20 μL of the pollen suspension was used, and for extracellular ATP measurement, the pollen grains were incubated for 5 min and pelleted and 50 μL of the supernatant was used for further processing. To avoid metabolic degradation of ATP, the samples were subsequently treated with buffer A (7% perchloric acid and 10 mM EDTA) and buffer B (5 M KOH and 1 M triethanolamine) as described (CITATION). The resulting supernatant was diluted with 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and ATP was measured by ENLITEN rLuciferase/Luciferin reagent (Promega) according to user instructions. Luminescence was measured using a Tecan Infinite M200 multimode microplate reader equipped with an injector. For measurements, a 1-s delay time after rLuciferase/Luciferin reagent injection and 10-s relative light unit signal integration time were used. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PM-ANT1 (At5g56450), ER-ANT1 (At5g17400), AAC1 (At3g08580), AAC2 (At5g13490), AAC3 (At4g28390), and EF1α (At5g60390). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Colocalization of a C-Terminal PM-ANT1-GFP Fusion Protein with the Arabidopsis Plasma Membrane Aquaporin PIP2a-mcherry in Tobacco Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 2. Relative Expression of PM-ANT1 during Pollen Development. Supplemental Figure 3. Pollen Analysis of Wild-Type and 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1 Lines. Supplemental Table 1. Segregation Analysis of 35S:amiRNA PM-ANT1. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for Cloning and Quantitative Real-Time PCR.
