!~ABS~! Endoreplication, also called endoreduplication, is a modified cell cycle in which DNA is repeatedly replicated without subsequent cell division. Endoreplication is often associated with increased cell size and specialized cell shapes, but the mechanism coordinating DNA content with shape and size remains obscure. Here we identify the product of the BRANCHLESS TRICHOMES (BLT) gene, a protein of hitherto unknown function that has been conserved throughout angiosperm evolution, as a link in coordinating cell shape and nuclear DNA content in endoreplicated Arabidopsis trichomes. Loss-of-function mutations in BLT were found to enhance the multicellular trichome phenotype of mutants in the SIAMESE (SIM) gene, which encodes a repressor of endoreplication. Epistasis and overexpression experiments revealed that BLT encodes a key regulator of trichome branching. Additional experiments showed that BLT interacts both genetically and physically with STICHEL, another key regulator of trichome branching. Although blt mutants have normal trichome DNA content, overexpression of BLT results in an additional round of endoreplication, and blt mutants uncouple DNA content from morphogenesis in mutants with increased trichome branching, further emphasizing its role in linking cell shape and endoreplication.
!~RES~! siamese-1 (sim-1) is a loss-of-function mutation that results in multicellular trichomes that occur in clusters (Fig. 1A,B; Table 1). SIM encodes a CDK inhibitor that binds to CYCD-CDK complexes and regulates endoreplication onset in Arabidopsis (Churchman et al., 2006; Peres et al., 2007). In a search for genetic modifiers of the sim mutant trichome phenotype, we identified a recessive mutation that greatly enhanced the multicellularity of the sim mutant trichome phenotype in double mutants (Fig. 1C,D; Table 1). When separated from sim, the single mutant of this modifier produces predominantly unbranched trichomes on leaves (Fig. 1E). Root growth, plant size, growth rate, floral structure and general appearance of these single mutants were identical to those of wild type, and the number of trichomes on single-mutant leaves was indistinguishable from that of wild-type leaves, indicating that the mutant phenotype is primarily or exclusively limited to post-initiation trichome development. [[FIGURE]] blt increases the multicellularity of sim mutant trichomes [[FIGURE]] The unbranched trichome mutation was mapped, and sequencing of candidate genes revealed a point mutation in the gene AT1G64690, which has been named BRANCHLESS TRICHOMES (BLT) (Marks et al., 2009). The genetic modifier responsible for enhancing the sim phenotype was shown to be allelic to blt by the following criteria. First, the trichome mutant identified here produced unbranched trichomes that were phenotypically identical to those of the blt-1 reference allele (Fig. 1F), and the two mutations failed to complement. The phenotype of our unbranched trichome allele was also completely rescued by a genomic DNA fragment containing BLT (see Fig. S1 in the supplementary material). Finally, when the blt-1 reference allele was combined with either of two sim alleles, it produced an enhancement of the sim multicellular trichome phenotype identical to that seen with our initial blt allele (see Fig. S2 in the supplementary material). These results indicate that the gene responsible for the genetic enhancement of cell division in sim mutants observed in our screen was BLT, a gene with no known role in the cell cycle. In accordance with the naming of blt alleles in previous work (Marks et al., 2009), we refer to the point-mutant allele generated in our screen as blt-3. This allele contains a G-to-A mutation in AT1G64690 that changes the amino acid tryptophan (TGG) to a stop codon (TGA) at codon 64, eliminating more than 70% of the predicted protein. Thus, blt-3 is likely to be a null allele. The blt-3 allele was used for the studies described below unless otherwise indicated. Loss-of-function mutations in another gene, STI, result in unbranched trichomes very similar in phenotype to those of the blt mutants (Fig. 1G) (Ilgenfritz et al., 2003). Double-mutant sti sim plants, however, did not exhibit an increase in the number of cells per trichome relative to sim trichomes (Fig. 1H; Table 1). Thus, the dramatic enhancement of the sim multicellular trichome phenotype seen in sim blt double mutants (Fig. 1C,D; Table 1) represents a unique link between trichome branching and the cell cycle. The 273 amino acid product of BLT predicted by conceptual translation does not closely resemble any protein of known function, although sequences similar to BLT are found in most, if not all, angiosperm genomes (see Fig. S3 in the supplementary material). Additionally, four other Arabidopsis genes (AT3G20350, AT1G50660, AT5G22310 and AT5G22310), all of unknown function, encode proteins that share the predicted amino acid sequence REERVQMKL (residues 161-169 of BLT), as well as other limited similarity with BLT. There is a clear and strongly supported monophyletic clade of BLT-related genes in all of the angiosperm species examined, indicating that the BLT clade originated before the last common ancestor of monocots and dicots (see Fig. S4 in the supplementary material). This suggests that BLT encodes an ancient conserved function, which is represented in the Arabidopsis genome only by BLT itself. Sequences with similarity to BLT also occur in Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) Bruch & Schimp, but the sequences are from partial cDNAs and it is not possible to determine whether they represent BLT orthologs or paralogs. BLT was initially identified among a number of genes in a transcriptomics study of trichome development (Marks et al., 2009). To further investigate the role of BLT in trichome branching, transgenic lines expressing BLT from the GL2 promoter, GL2pro, were created. In leaves, this strong promoter drives expression predominantly in developing trichomes. Numerous transgenic lines were obtained, and most independent GL2pro:BLT lines showed increased trichome branching (Fig. 2); counts of trichome branch points from three representative lines are shown in Table 2. Thus, when expressed from a strong trichome promoter, BLT expression actively promotes trichome branching. Plants overexpressing BLT have increased branching [[FIGURE]] The necessity for BLT function in trichome branching was also addressed by constructing double mutants between blt and triptychon (try), noeck (nok), kaktus (kak), rastafari (rfi), the GL3 gain-of-function allele glabra3-shapeshifter (gl3-sst) and the GL3 overexpression construct GL2pro:GL3. Each of these latter mutants and constructs produces substantial numbers of trichomes with more than four branch points (i.e. at least five branches) (Folkers et al., 1997; Perraza et al., 1999; Esch et al., 2003). In the double mutants, the blt mutation greatly reduced trichome branching relative to the second mutation on its own, and very few trichomes had more than one branch point (Fig. 3; Table 3). Both blt alleles that we examined produced at least a few trichomes with one branch point (Table 3). Thus, blt is essentially epistatic to try, nok, kak and rfi. In double mutants, blt mutation also restricted the branching potential resulting from the gl3-sst gain-of-function allele or the artificially engineered GL3 gain-of-function resulting from expression from the GL2 promoter (Fig. 3), although owing to the complex branching pattern and trichome clustering that occur in these GL3 gain-of-function situations it was difficult to quantitate the degree of trichome branching. It should be noted that the sole existing rfi allele, as used here, contains a C-to-T point mutation in the GL3 gene that converts codon 116 from GCC (Ala) to GTC (Val). This rfi allele maps close to gl3 on chromosome five. Thus, rfi might be another gl3 gain-of-function mutation. In many, but not all, cases, a positive correlation exists between the average number of trichome branches associated with a particular genotype and the degree of endoreplication of trichome nuclear DNA (Hülskamp et al., 1994; Larkin et al., 2007). One mutant that does not show such a correlation is sti; trichomes of sti mutant plants have little branching, but have a nuclear DNA content similar to that of wild type (Ilgenfritz et al., 2003). Similarly, we found that blt mutation had no effect on trichome nuclear DNA content (Fig. 4A) or on the nuclear DNA content of leaf cells (Fig. 4B). These results indicate that, like STI, BLT function is not required for endoreplication. However, three GL2pro:BLT overexpression lines all showed a significant increase in DNA content relative to wild-type or blt mutant trichomes (Fig. 4C). This result suggested that BLT function is necessary to couple trichome branching to the degree of endoreplication. To test this hypothesis, we examined the nuclear DNA content of blt gl3-sst and blt try double mutants in comparison to the respective single mutants, gl3-sst and try, both of which result in increased branching and nuclear DNA content on their own. Both double mutants exhibited an elevated DNA content that was not significantly different from that of the corresponding single mutant (Fig. 5A,B), even though blt substantially restricts branching in the double mutants (Fig. 3D,J; Table 3). This was particularly striking for the gl3-sst allele. Although it was difficult to accurately count the number of branches on trichomes of plants homozygous for this gl3 gain-of-function allele owing to highly variable branch expansion and trichome shape, it was clear that gl3-sst single mutants have an increased number of branch points per trichome, and trichomes having greater than four branch points were common (Fig. 3I) (Esch et al., 2003). In spite of an obvious and dramatic reduction of branching in blt gl3-sst trichomes (Fig. 3J), these trichomes had a median DNA content that was more than fourfold higher than that of wild type and indistinguishable from that of gl3-sst single-mutant trichomes (Fig. 4A). Loss of BLT function limits branching potential in double mutants [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In a separate experiment, we found that, whereas individual sim nuclei had a mean DNA content of 12.4±7.3 relative fluorescence units (RFU), individual blt sim nuclei had a mean DNA content of 3.1±3.3 RFU. The DNA content of blt sim nuclei was significantly different from that of both sim and blt [P<0.05, Kruskal-Wallis one-way ANOVA on ranks and an all pairwise multiple comparison test (Dunn's test)]. When these data were combined with the number of nuclei per trichome initiation site for each genotype (Table 1), the total nuclear DNA content per trichome initiation site was similar in the two genotypes (27.2 RFU for sim and 30.4 for blt sim). Thus, in the blt sim double-mutant combination, blt increases mitotic divisions above the degree of division seen in the sim single mutant, without affecting the number of cycles of DNA replication. We also considered the hypothesis that, although blt mutations do not affect the level of endoreplication reached by mature trichomes, they might prolong a juvenile developmental stage permissive for division, in which case we might see an alteration in the timing of endoreplication in early stages of blt trichome development. It is difficult to obtain accurate in situ DNA content values from early trichome developmental stages owing to the high background and close spacing of cells. Therefore, as a proxy for endoreplication in early trichome development stages, we used the widest cross-sectional area of stage one and stage two trichome nuclei, i.e. the nuclei of trichomes that are less than twice as tall as they are wide, prior to the initiation of branching in wild-type trichomes (Szymanski et al., 1998). The nuclei of surrounding protodermal cells, which were still dividing, were also examined. Because the nuclei of these cells appear to be essentially spherical, this cross-sectional area should be indicative of cell volume (Walker et al., 2000). No difference was found between wild-type and blt nuclei for early-stage developing trichomes or dividing protodermal cells (see Table S1 in the supplementary material), indicating that there is no obvious alteration in the timing of endoreplication in the early development of blt trichomes. Mutations in only two genes, blt and sti, result in trichomes that are unbranched but otherwise develop normally. As noted by Marks et al. (Marks et al., 2009), blt sti double mutants resemble the two parental mutants, a result that is consistent with the two gene products acting in the same pathway. However, in constructing this double mutant, we noticed that 25-30% of the trichomes on F1 plants heterozygous for both blt and sti had only a single branch point (i.e. were two-branched; Fig. 6; Table 4), a phenotype that is almost never seen in the Col-0 wild-type background in which both mutations were derived, and is rare (less than 3%) in F1 heterozygotes between either blt or sti and wild type. Thus, blt and sti exhibit substantial intergenic non-complementation. Intergenic non-complementation is often observed in cases in which two protein products act as part of the same complex (Huffaker et al., 1987). We tested the hypothesis that the BLT and STI proteins interact using two methods. Yeast two-hybrid experiments demonstrated a clear interaction between the N-terminal 472 amino acids of STI and full-length BLT (Fig. 7A-D; Table 5). Interaction between STI and BLT was confirmed by in planta bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments in which full-length STI and BLT coding regions were respectively fused to the N-terminal and C-terminal split domains of YFP and co-bombarded into onion cells, which resulted in YFP fluorescence indicative of close association of the two test proteins (Fig. 7E,F). We also investigated the localization of BLT and STI fluorescent protein fusions in developing trichomes of sti and blt mutants, respectively, using transient expression of YFP fusions introduced into developing trichomes via biolistic bombardment of developing leaves (Fig. 8). In all sti early-stage trichomes expressing YFP:BLT, YFP fluorescence was localized apically, similar to the YFP:BLT localization seen in wild type (Fig. 8A,B). Twelve of fifteen blt cells expressing STI:YFP also exhibited the apical localization observed for STI:YFP in wild type (Fig. 8C,D), whereas three cells exhibited a more lateral localization of the fluorescent signal not seen in wild-type controls. No trichomes in either experiment showed detectable nuclear-localized fluorescence. Genetic interaction between blt and sti for trichome branching phenotype [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants were grown as previously described (Larkin et al., 1999). The loss-of-function blt insertion line SAIL_632_G06.V1 (Columbia ecotype) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The origin of the sim-1 allele used for mutagenesis has been described previously (Churchman et al., 2006). The try-JC allele has also been described previously (Larkin et al., 1999; Schellmann et al., 2002); in the work of Schellman et al. (Schellman et al., 2002), which describes the molecular defect, it is mislabeled as the try-5C allele. The nok-122 and kak-2 alleles (Hülskamp et al., 1994; Folkers et al., 1997) and the GL2pro:GL3 line (Kirik et al., 2001) have been described previously. The rfi allele (Perazza et al., 1999) was obtained from Jean-Marc Bonneville. The gl3-sst allele (Esch et al., 2003) was obtained from M. David Marks. The ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-induced sti-AS allele was obtained from Alan Sessions (University of California, Berkeley). All alleles were either generated in Col-0, or were backcrossed three times to Col-0 before selfing to obtain homozygotes. Putative double mutants were confirmed by complementation, by crossing to wild-type plants and recovering the two parental mutant phenotypes in a segregating F2, or by sequencing. As described previously (Kasili et al., 2010), homozygous seeds of sim-1 were mutagenized with EMS and collected as 37 pools of 300 M1 plants (a total of 11,100 M1 plants) and ~2000 M2 plants per pool were screened for sim phenotypic modifiers. Plants exhibiting increased multicellularity and clustering of trichomes were selfed. These putative modifiers were then backcrossed three times to the sim-1 mutant, and plants having the enhanced sim phenotype were selected for further work. The presumed double mutants were crossed to Col-0 wild type and the F1 selfed to isolate the modifier as a single mutant. Plants with reduced trichome branching but no multicellular trichomes or trichome clusters were observed in this segregating population. This phenotype segregated as a recessive monogenic trait, and when the new mutant was crossed to either the sim-1 or sim-2 alleles it reconstructed the enhanced multicellularity of the original isolate, confirming that this mutant was the sim modifier of interest. Using bulked segregant analysis (Lukowitz et al., 2000), the reduced trichome branching phenotype of the modifier was mapped to a region on chromosome I. Genomic DNA from 971 plants from an F2 population of a cross between the mutant (in Col-0) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) was genotyped by PCR with molecular markers generated using the Cereon database of the Columbia and Ler polymorphisms at TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/browse/Cereon/index.jsp). Two restriction enzyme-cleavable PCR-amplifiable markers, F13O11-4 and F1N19-7, were used to localize the mutation within a region of ~70 kb on two overlapping BAC clones, F1N19 and F13O11. Sequencing genes within this region revealed a G-to-A point mutation in the gene AT1G64690. This gene is known as BRANCHLESS TRICHOMES, and loss-of-function blt mutations reduce trichome branching (Marks et al., 2009). The EMS-induced allele described here was designated blt-3 in accordance with the naming of previously published alleles. For molecular complementation, the genomic coding sequence of AT1G64690, together with 1447 bp of upstream sequence and 1228 bp of downstream sequence, was PCR amplified from the BAC clone FIN19 using primers ENS1CF (5′-CACCTGTGACAGACTTGCTCCTAC-3′) and ENS1CR2 (5′-CAGCCACATAAGGACCCGAC-3′). This fragment was cloned into the Gateway pENTR vector following the manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Error-free entry clones were confirmed by sequence analysis before attL recombination into the Gateway destination vector pMDC100, a plant binary transformation vector, to create pMDC100/ENS1C-3.5, which was then used for transformation of homozygous blt-3 plants. Predicted protein sequences for BLT, At1G50660, At5g22310, At3g11590 and At3g20350 were obtained from TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org) and used in NCBI BLAST searches with the TBLASTN option. The most similar predicted protein sequence to each of the five query sequences in the genomes of Arabidopsis lyrata (L.) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz, Vitis vinifera (L.), Ricinus communis (L.) and Populus trichocarpa (Torr. & A.Gray) and Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench was retained for analysis. Including the five query sequences, this resulted in 24 protein sequences, predicted from the following GenBank accession numbers: A. thaliana BLT, NM_105144; A. lyrata BLT, XM_002887821; R. communis BLT, XM_002518874; P. trichocarpa BLT, XM_002297906; V. vinifera BLT, XM_002272534; S. bicolor BLT, XM_002467436; At1G50660, NM_103948; At5g22310, NM_122136; At3g11590, NM_101041; At3g20350, NM_112926; A. lyrata-2, XM_002891541; A. lyrata-3, XM_002874015; A. lyrata-4, XM_002882692; R. communis-2, XM_002532506; R. communis-3, XM_002523807; R. communis-4, XM_002530473; P. trichocarpa-2, XM_002316730; P. trichocarpa-3, XM_002328072; P. trichocarpa-4, XM_002309373; V. vinifera-2 XM_002280300; V. vinifera-3, XM_002275870; S. bicolor-2, XM_002448513; S. bicolor-3, XM_002441284; and S. bicolor-4, XM_002447617. Alignment of these 24 predicted protein sequences was performed using Mega4 (MEGA Software) using the ClustalW algorithm with default parameters (multiple alignment gap opening penalty=10; gap extension penalty=0.2; Gonnet matrix, residue-specific penalties, on; hydrophilic penalties, on; gap separation distance=4; end gap separation, off; use negative matrix, off; delay divergent cut-off %=30). The phylogeny was built in Mega4 using neighbor joining with 1000 bootstrap iterations. The resulting tree was arbitrarily rooted between the BLT subfamily and all other paralogs. For the alignment used to produce this tree, see Fig. S3 in the supplementary data, The full-length BLT coding region was PCR amplified from the BAC clone FIN19 using primers ENSIF (5′-CACCATGAAGGATATGAAGATGCAGAGC-3′) and ENS1R1 (5′-TCAAGGAGGAGGAGAGGAGAGA-3′), which contains a stop codon, or ENS1R2 (5′-AGGAGGAGGAGAGGAGAGAAGAG-3′), which lacks a stop codon, and cloned into the Gateway vector pENTR following the manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen). Error-free entry clones were confirmed by DNA sequencing before attL recombination into the Gateway-compatible destination binary vector pLEELA-pGL2 (Weinl et al., 2005) for overexpression in developing trichomes. The resulting plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by electroporation or by the freeze-thaw method (Weigel and Glazebrook, 2002) and subsequently introduced into plants by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, 1998). Transgenic plants were selected on MS medium containing the relevant antibiotics and then transferred to soil. The in situ DNA content of trichomes was measured as described (Walker et al., 2000), and the DNA values were normalized to reported wild-type epidermal cell nuclei values (Melaragno et al., 1993). Statistical analysis was performed using SigmaStat (Systat Software, San Jose, CA, USA). Flow cytometry was performed as described (Verkest et al., 2005a). Trichomes were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) as previously described (Larkin et al., 1999). Trichome branches were counted on all trichomes on the adaxial side of the first or second leaf from at least ten plants of each genotype. Entry clones containing full-length cDNA of BLT or STI or a cDNA fragment of STI (encoding the N-terminal 454 amino acids) were transferred to the Gateway-compatible yeast two-hybrid vectors pAS-attR and pACT-attR by LR recombination following the manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen) and used to transform yeast strain AH109. Assays for α-galactosidase activity resulting from expression of the GAL4-responsive MEL1 gene present in the AH109 host strain were conducted as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook (PR973283, July 2009). Six transformed colonies were analyzed per genotype. Results are reported in milliunits (mU) of α-galactosidase activity ml−1 cell−1; one unit of α-galactosidase activity is defined as the amount of enzyme that hydrolyzes 1 μmole p-nitrophenyl-α-d-galactoside to p-nitrophenol and d-galactose in 1 minute at 30°C in acetate buffer (pH 4.5) (Aho et al., 1997). For bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), entry clones of full-length BLT and STI were fused with the C-terminal and N-terminal split fragments of YFP, respectively, in the BiFC pBatTL vectors (Uhrig et al., 2007) by Gateway recombination, and were introduced into onion cells by biolistic bombardment.
