!~ABS~! Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins (PPRPs) are encoded by a large gene family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and their functions are largely unknown. The few studied PPRPs are implicated in different developmental processes through their function in RNA metabolism and posttranscriptional regulation in plant organelles. Here, we studied the functions of Arabidopsis PENTATRICOPEPTIDE REPEAT PROTEIN FOR GERMINATION ON NaCl (PGN) in plant defense and abiotic stress responses. Inactivation of PGN results in susceptibility to necrotrophic fungal pathogens as well as hypersensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA), glucose, and salinity. Interestingly, ectopic expression of PGN results in the same phenotypes as the pgn null allele, indicating that a tight regulation of the PGN transcript is required for normal function. Loss of PGN function dramatically enhanced reactive oxygen species accumulation in seedlings in response to salt stress. Inhibition of ABA synthesis and signaling partially alleviates the glucose sensitivity of pgn, suggesting that the mutant accumulates high endogenous ABA. Accordingly, induction of NCED3, encoding the rate-limiting enzyme in stress-induced ABA biosynthesis, is significantly higher in pgn, and the mutant has higher basal ABA levels, which may underlie its phenotypes. The pgn mutant has altered expression of other ABA-related genes as well as mitochondria-associated transcripts, most notably elevated levels of ABI4 and ALTERNATIVE OXIDASE1a, which are known for their roles in retrograde signaling induced by changes in or inhibition of mitochondrial function. These data, coupled with its mitochondrial localization, suggest that PGN functions in regulation of reactive oxygen species homeostasis in mitochondria during abiotic and biotic stress responses, likely through involvement in retrograde signaling.
!~RES~! Previously, Arabidopsis BOTRYTIS-INDUCED KINASE1 (BIK1) was found to play a contrasting role in plant defense, positively contributing to resistance against B. cinerea but functioning as a negative regulator of resistance against virulent P. syringae (CITATION). In an effort to further define the role of BIK1 in defense and identify genes involved in resistance, we compared the genome-wide transcript profiles of wild-type and bik1 plants prior to and following B. cinerea inoculation (CITATION). From this, AT1G56570 (designated PGN), encoding a PPRP, was identified as a potential BIK1 target due to its increased basal expression in the mutant and significant induction in wild-type plants following infection (Fig. 1A). Interestingly, Arabidopsis nahG lines have reduced B. cinerea-induced PGN expression (Fig. 1A). nahG plants are SA deficient, whereas the bik1 mutation leads to high basal and induced SA accumulation (CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that PGN expression in response to B. cinerea is at least partially dependent on SA levels. Yet, exogenous application of SA does not affect PGN expression, whereas treatment with methyl-jasmonate (MeJA) leads to significant induction and the ET precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) causes minor suppression (Fig. 1B). Remarkably, PGN expression significantly correlates with the expression of 13 other PPRP genes as well as several genes associated with RNA synthesis or processing (Supplemental Fig. S1A; CITATION). PGN is also highly expressed in dry and imbibed seed tissue as well as the shoot apex throughout development (Supplemental Fig. S1B). [[FIGURE]] To determine the biological relevance of its B. cinerea-induced gene expression, we characterized plants harboring a null T-DNA insertion allele of the PGN gene (SALK_141937; (Fig. 1C). The pgn mutation resulted in enhanced susceptibility to A. brassicicola as evidenced by increased chlorosis and necrosis at the site of inoculation (Fig. 1D). Compared to the wild type, pgn leaves develop significantly larger disease lesions and support increased fungal proliferation (Fig. 1E). The pgn mutant is also susceptible to B. cinerea. Following spray inoculation, pgn plants display increased chlorosis and tissue maceration 4 d after inoculation that progresses into abundant leaf decay around 7 d after inoculation (Fig. 1F). Despite relatively slow symptom development, fungal growth in the pgn mutant is higher than the wild type just 24 h after inoculation based on transcript accumulation of the constitutive B. cinerea ActinA gene (Fig. 1G). Additionally, we assayed pgn plants for altered resistance to the bacterial pathogen P. syringae to further clarify PGN function in BIK1-regulated defense responses and determine if the altered susceptibility of the mutant to necrotrophic infection is a result of hormone-mediated defense antagonism. Plant immune responses to necrotrophic infection are regulated by JA/ET-mediated signaling events known to antagonize SA-dependent defenses associated with biotrophic resistance (CITATION). No difference was observed in bacterial growth between wild-type plants and the pgn mutant inoculated with virulent (DC3000) or avirulent (DC3000AvrRpm1) strains of P. syringae (Supplemental Fig. S2). Interestingly, B. cinerea-induced expression of PR-1 and PDF1.2, considered molecular markers of SA- and JA/ET-dependent defense responses, respectively, are not altered in the pgn mutant (Supplemental Fig. S3, A and B). Overall, these results suggest the function of PGN in pathogen resistance is specific to necrotrophs and not associated with SA-, JA-, or ET-mediated defenses. PGN is predicted to encode a PPRP (Fig. 2A) with significant homology to proteins from different plant species and Arabidopsis spanning full-length amino acid sequences (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Fig. S4). The PGN protein shows the characteristics of the E+ PPRP subclass with a 43-S-P-L-S-P-L-S-34-L-S-1-P-L2-S-4-E-E+-19 repeat and motif arrangement (numbers indicate the amount of residues in between motifs; Fig. 2A). The repeats are predicted to form a superhelix compromised of two antiparallel α-helices able to bind DNA or RNA with substrate specificity dependent on the residue properties within the groove (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, there are more than 450 predicted PPRPs, with all described proteins localized to mitochondria, chloroplast, or nucleus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Of the E+ PPRP subfamily, more than 40% are predicted to localize to mitochondria (CITATION). Prediction programs indicate PGN has a cleavable targeting sequence (MSITKLARSNAFKPIPNFVRSSLRN) and a 96% likelihood of subcellular localization to mitochondria (CITATION). To experimentally determine the subcellular localization of PGN, 35S:PGN-GFP was transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves in conjunction with different cellular markers. PGN-GFP colocalized with a mitochondrial marker (mCHERRY) consistent with the in silico predictions (Fig. 2C). [[FIGURE]] To further study the function of PGN, overexpression (35S:PGN;pgn) and complementation lines (PGNpr:PGN;pgn) were generated (Fig. 3A). The different PGN genotypes were assayed for altered responses to hormones and abiotic stress agents in an effort to clarify the mechanism of PGN function in Arabidopsis defense. The pgn mutant displays germination hypersensitivity to media supplemented with ABA and increased Glc (Fig. 3, B–E). Overexpression of PGN also results in hypersensitivity to ABA and Glc comparable to that of the mutant (Fig. 3, B–E). Similarly, the pgn mutant and overexpression lines have increased sensitivity to salt, displaying increased salt-induced necrosis and chlorosis as well as reduced germination and root growth compared to wild-type seedlings (Fig. 4). Alternatively, both pgn and 35S:PGN;pgn plants have enhanced growth on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media lacking Glc relative to the wild type (Fig. 3B). In general, transformation with genomic PGN driven by its native promoter (PGNpr:PGN;pgn) restores mutant sensitivity to wild-type levels (Figs. 3, B–E, and 4). However, at higher concentrations of ABA, salt, and Glc, PGNpr:PGN;pgn seedlings have significantly reduced leaf emergence, root growth, and smaller cotyledons, respectively, relative to the wild type (Figs. 3, C–E, and 4, A, C, and D). This disparity could be attributed to the slightly higher PGN expression of these lines (Fig. 3A) compared to the wild type and further supports the hypersensitivity exhibited by 35S:PGN;pgn plants. Overall, these data suggest that, in addition to defense against necrotrophic infection, PGN regulates plant responses to abiotic stress, and its expression level is an important determinant of function. No altered seedling growth was observed when pregerminated 5-d seedlings were transferred to media supplemented with Glc, ABA, or indole-3-acetic acid (Supplemental Fig. S5, A–C). Also, germination on media supplemented with ACC, MeJA, SA, GA, indole-3-acetic acid, or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is not affected by the pgn mutation, limiting the role of PGN to a specific subset of stress and hormone responses (Supplemental Fig. S5D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Increased concentrations of Glc are known to delay Arabidopsis germination, with ABA levels determining the severity of inhibition (CITATION; CITATION). Many mutants exhibiting enhanced growth on media containing high exogenous sugars are also ABA insensitive, whereas even minimal ABA increases act additively to sugar-mediated seedling growth inhibition (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine if pgn hypersensitivity to Glc and ABA is a result of increased endogenous ABA, we assayed growth responses to 6% Glc in the presence of two ABA inhibitors: the ET precursor ACC and norflurazon (NF). ET antagonizes ABA function in germination, likely promoting emergence through suppression of ABA signaling and synthesis initiated by Glc and ABA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). NF inhibits ABA accumulation through disruption of carotenoid biosynthesis upstream of ABA biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION). Addition of ACC or NF partially relieved pgn hypersensitivity to Glc relative to 6% Glc alone (Fig. 5A). Interestingly, whereas ACC restored pgn growth to a degree comparable to respective wild-type controls, the effect of NF resulted in seedlings nearly half the size of corresponding wild type. These data suggest that the increased Glc sensitivity exhibited by the pgn mutant is likely due to high levels of endogenous ABA. Subsequent analysis of total ABA content indicates that pgn seedlings do have significantly higher basal levels of ABA compared to the wild type (Fig. 5B). The growth variation between treatments may be explained by disparities in the mechanism by which they inhibit ABA responses. ACC suppresses ABA accumulation and signaling, whereas NF only disrupts ABA biosynthesis. Thus, based on its phenotypes, the pgn mutant may be altered in ABA levels as well as signaling. Alternatively, variation may be a result of secondary effects of treatment, such as NF inhibition of GA synthesis. However, based on the normal responses of the mutant to GA and other plant hormones (Supplemental Fig. S5D), we limited our conclusions to the effects of these chemicals on ABA responses for which pgn is clearly altered. The independent restoration of growth responses with either ACC or NF also serves to further strengthen an ABA-dependent mechanism. Interestingly, low levels of Glc also have an inhibitory effect on germination, yet the effect is lessened in ABA-sensitive and -insensitive mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, the enhanced growth of pgn on media lacking Glc lends further support to its increased sensitivity to ABA (Fig. 5A). [[FIGURE]] Generally, ABA and ET function antagonistically, with most ET-insensitive mutants showing sensitivity to ABA and vice versa (CITATION). Our data suggest that pgn mutation leads to disrupted ABA responses that can be partially restored through ET-mediated antagonism (Fig. 5). This implies that loss of PGN function is likely to cause insensitivity to ET. However, instead of increased tolerance, the pgn mutant exhibits enhanced ET sensitivity as observed by an altered triple response (Fig. 6). The triple response is induced when plants are grown in the dark on media containing ET or its precursor ACC, producing seedlings with exaggerated apical hooks, swollen hypocotyls, and inhibited root/hypocotyl elongation (CITATION). In response to ACC, pgn seedlings produce shorter hypocotyls with limited root growth compared to the wild type (Fig. 6). Ectopic PGN expression also results in an enhanced triple response comparable to that of the mutant, consistent with either loss or gain of PGN function resulting in the same phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] Loss of PGN function results in hypersensitivity to ABA as well as salt and Glc. To determine if this decreased tolerance is due to altered ABA signaling, we assayed the mutant for altered expression of ABA-responsive marker genes associated with activation of abiotic stress responses. Salt-induced expression of RD29A, RAB18, and COR6.6 is not altered by the pgn mutation (Supplemental Fig. S3C). RD29A, RAB18, and COR6.6 are ABA-responsive genes with varying roles in salt, sugar, and osmotic stress tolerance (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, ABF3, DREB1B, and DREB2B are all induced at lower levels in the pgn mutant in response to salt or ABA (Fig. 7, A and B). Salt-induce.d ABI5 expression is also slightly reduced in pgn, but induction by ABA was unaffected by mutation (Fig. 7, C and D). Interestingly, pgn has higher NCED3, EIN5, and ABI4 expression in response to both ABA and NaCl compared to the wild type (Fig. 7, C and D). ABI4 is the most significantly affected by pgn mutation, showing nearly 5 times greater expression in the mutant compared to wild-type ABI4 induction in response to ABA (Fig. 7C). ABI4 encodes a transcription factor involved in ABA signaling and functions downstream of the PPRP GUN1 in photooxidative stress responses (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further define PGN function in resistance to necrotrophic infection with respect to ABA and ET signaling, we examined its expression in mutants with altered ABA and ET responses. In response to B. cinerea, PGN expression was not altered in etr1 or abi1 (Fig. 8A). Mutation in the ET receptor ETR1 results in significantly decreased ABI1 expression, which is consistent with our results and suggests neither of these genes contribute to regulation of PGN during infection. By contrast, inoculated abi5 and erf1 mutants exhibit markedly higher PGN induction. ERF1 is a positive regulator of JA/ET-mediated defenses that functions partially through antagonism of ABA responses (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, PGN expression may increase as ABA responses are relieved from ERF1-mediated repression. However, mutation in ABI5, a positive regulator of ABA signaling, also causes increased induction, suggesting that altered expression in these mutants may be linked to a secondary effect or that PGN regulation is not solely dependent on ABA responses (CITATION). In addition, basal expression of PLEIOTROPIC REGULATORY LOCUS1 (PRL1) is significantly repressed in the pgn mutant (Fig. 8B). PRL1 encodes a WD-40 protein that functions in global regulation of sugar, stress, and hormone responses as well as basal defense in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). Based on literature searches, prl1 was the only mutant we could identify with increased sensitivity to Glc, ABA, and ET similar to that observed for pgn. [[FIGURE]] Recently, the PPR40 gene was isolated from a screen for ABA-sensitive Arabidopsis mutants (CITATION). In addition to ABA, the ppr40 mutant is also sensitive to salt and oxidative stress. PPR40 encodes a mitochondrial PPRP important for the function of Complex III in electron transport (CITATION). Due to the remarkable similarity of stress response phenotypes and shared subcellular localization of PGN and PPR40, we studied their functional relationship. The ppr40 mutant has significantly higher basal PGN expression that becomes repressed after B. cinerea infection (Fig. 8C). This pattern of expression is in direct contrast to that in wild-type plants, suggesting that PPR40 may function in the regulation of PGN transcription. Interestingly, ppr40 mutation results in a loss of resistance to B. cinerea comparable to that resulting from loss of PGN function (Fig. 8D). We also assayed the pgn mutant for tolerance to oxidative stresses. Detached leaf treatment with methyl viologen (MV), an herbicide that generates ROS, did not indicate any impaired oxidative stress tolerance in the pgn mutant (Supplemental Fig. S6A). Additionally, there was no significant difference in chlorophyll content between pgn and wild-type seedlings treated with H2O2 or MV as observed for the ppr40 mutant (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S6B). However, untreated pgn seedlings had significantly lower total chlorophyll content compared to the wild type. This difference was not observed in 4-week-old plants (Supplemental Fig. S6C). Thus, it appears that the pgn mutation does not affect oxidative stress tolerance in response to MV or H2O2, though it does lead to reduced chlorophyll levels in seedlings. Thus, PPR40 and PGN appear to have overlapping as well as distinct functions in Arabidopsis stress and defense responses. PGN’s localization to mitochondria and putative function in RNA metabolism prompted us to assay expression of mitochondria-associated transcripts in the mutant. pgn has significantly higher salt-induced ALTERNATIVE OXIDASE 1a (AOX1a), AOX1b, AOX1d, UCP, CCB45, and COX2 expression, with AOX1d, UCP, and COX2 also showing increased basal expression (Fig. 9, A and D). The AOX proteins and UCP serve as nonphosphorylating bypasses of mitochondrial electron transport, whereas CCB45 and COX2 are associated with cytochrome c biogenesis and oxidation, respectively (CITATION). AOX induction also serves as a marker of mitochondrial retrograde responses in Arabidopsis. No significant differences in expression were observed for the extensively edited mitochondrial ORFX transcript, NAD2, NDB3, or NDB4 encoding a protein of unknown function, an NAD(P)H dehydrogenase subunit, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenases B3 and B4, respectively (Fig. 9, B–E). Yet, the pgn mutant has significantly higher basal expression of the NAD1 transcript, which is trans-spliced by the PPRP OTP43 and encodes an NAD(P)H dehydrogenase subunit associated with mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I (CITATION). RPL2, encoding a constituent of the large subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome, is also elevated in the mutant but gets repressed following salt treatment (Fig. 9B). NAD9 and MATR are expressed at lower levels in pgn both before and after treatment, with the RNA maturase gene MATR showing the highest degree of suppression caused by pgn mutation (Fig. 9, B and E). [[FIGURE]] Consistent with germination assays in which both high and low PGN levels led to increased sensitivity to ABA, salt, and Glc, PGN overexpression resulted in enhanced susceptibility to B. cinerea similar to that observed for the mutant (Fig. 9F). Infected wild-type and complemented (PGNpr:PGN;pgn) plants shared similar levels of resistance without any observable differences in disease symptoms. Thus, the level of PGN expression appears to influence the extent of plant susceptibility to B. cinerea, consistent with results obtained for germination responses to abiotic stress agents. However, the threshold for transcript levels that alter responses appears to be lower for germination as the marginal increase in PGNpr:PGN;pgn plants results in weak sensitivity to abiotic stresses but has no effect on resistance to B. cinerea. To determine if altered mitochondrial function in management of ROS is a contributing factor in pgn susceptibility, the PGN genotypes were inoculated with B. cinerea and incubated under constant light or dark. Under dark conditions, pgn and the overexpression line (35S:PGN;pgn) had significantly enhanced susceptibility relative to infected wild-type and complemented (PGNpr:PGN;pgn) plants as well as all plants incubated in light (Fig. 9F). Although light-grown plants maintained susceptibility, continuous darkness significantly enhanced disease symptoms. Thus, pgn susceptibility appears to be linked to impaired B. cinerea-induced ROS detoxification as, under dark conditions, this process becomes largely dependent on mitochondrial functions. The effect of pgn mutation on ROS metabolism was further confirmed by histochemical staining for the presence of H2O2 using 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB) in salt-treated seedlings. Whereas minimal increases in H2O2 were observed in the leaf margins of wild-type seedlings, leaves of pgn seedlings incubated in 200 mm NaCl were intensely and wholly stained (Fig. 9G). Recent studies have shown that GUN1 is a DNA-binding PPRP involved in retrograde signaling from the chloroplast (CITATION). The gun1 mutant exhibits higher LIGHT HARVESTING CHLOROPHYLL BINDING1 (LHCB1) expression than the wild type after treatment with NF or lincomycin (CITATION). Both chemicals disrupt chloroplast protein biosynthesis leading to Mg-ProtoIX accumulation (CITATION). Mg-ProtoIX acts as a signal repressing nuclear expression of photosynthetic genes, specifically the LHCB family (CITATION). Many of the genes affected by gun1 mutation are involved in ABA signaling, with ABI4 acting as a downstream component of the GUN1-regulated retrograde response pathway to photooxidative stress (CITATION). ABI4 is a transcriptional regulator of sugar signaling required for plant responses to ABA, Glc, and salt (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on the hypersensitive phenotypes and altered ABI4 expression in the pgn mutant, we assayed the level of LHCB1 transcripts in NF-treated pgn to determine if it plays a role in plastid-to-nucleus signaling. In response to NF, LHCB1 was repressed in both wild-type and pgn seedlings without any observable difference in the level of suppression, suggesting that PGN does not function in photooxidative retrograde signaling (Supplemental Fig. S7).
!~MM~! Plants were grown in soil under fluorescent light (150 μE m−2 s−1) at 23°C ± 4°C with 60% relative humidity and a 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle. Seeds were vernalized in water for 2 d at 4°C prior to planting. For axenic plant growth, all seeds were surface sterilized as previously described (CITATION). Seeds were plated on supplemented or nonsupplemented media consisting of MS salts (PhytoTechnology Laboratories) with 2% (w/v) Suc and 0.8% (w/v) agar, pH 5.7. Transgenic seedlings were identified by selecting on MS media supplemented with appropriate antibiotics. Seed germination and seedling growth assays were also performed using MS media supplemented with different concentrations of different chemicals. All plates were vernalized at 4°C for 2 d followed by incubation at room temperature. To assay for the triple response, seeds were surface sterilized and plated on MS media containing 0 and 4 μm ACC (Sigma-Aldrich). Plates were kept in the dark and incubated 2 d at 4°C followed by 3 d at 23°C ± 2°C. For gene expression analysis, 4-week-old soil-grown plants were sprayed with 2.5 × 104 Botrytis cinerea spores/mL, 5 mm SA, 1 mm MeJA, 0.5 mm ACC, or 100 μm ABA (Sigma-Aldrich). Ten-day-old seedlings grown in vitro were treated with 200 mm NaCl or 100 μm ABA supplemented liquid MS media and shaken at room temperature for 0, 6, and 12 h or 0, 3, and 6 h, respectively. Seedlings were treated with NF (Chem Service) as previously described (CITATION). Plants were treated with H2O2 and MV to assay chlorophyll degradation/content as previously described (CITATION). DAB staining for H2O2 was performed on 10-d-old seedlings following 3 h incubation in 200 mm NaCl supplemented or unsupplemented MS media according to the manufacture’s protocol (Sigmafast DAB; Sigma-Aldrich). Total ABA was extracted from 1 to 1.5 g of tissue from 10-d-old seedlings as previously described with the modifications of using an acetone/water/acetic acid (80%/19%/1%) solution for homogenization and (±)-3′,5′,5′,7′,7′,7′-d6 ABA as an internal standard (National Research Council Canada; CITATION). ABA content was then determined using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. For RNA blots, total RNA was isolated as described (CITATION), separated on 1.2% agarose-formaldehyde gels, and blotted to Hybond N+ nylon membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Probes were labeled with 32P using the random labeling system (Redi Prime II; GE Healthcare) and hybridized to blots as previously described (CITATION). Membranes were exposed to film for 24 h at −80°C (Biomax XAR Film; Kodak). Ethidium bromide staining of rRNA was used as a loading control. RNA extraction, cDNA synthesis, and quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR expression analyses were carried out as previously described (CITATION). cDNA of all samples was synthesized using 3 μg DNAse-treated template RNA, AMV reverse transcriptase (Promega), and oligo(dT15) primers according to standard protocols. RT-PCR and qRT-PCR were performed using gene-specific primers with Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Actin2 as an endogenous reference for normalization. For qRT-PCR, a minimum of three technical replicates were used for each sample with a minimum of two biological replicates. Expression levels were calculated by the comparative cycle threshold method (Applied Biosystems). Normalization to the control was performed as previously described (CITATION). Primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Fungi were cultured and maintained as described (CITATION). Disease assays using B. cinerea strain BO5-10 and Alternaria brassicicola strain MUCL20297 were performed as previously described (CITATION). Disease assays for virulent/avirulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato were done as described (CITATION). PGN (AT1G56570) overexpression lines were generated by cloning the full-length PGN genomic sequence behind the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in pCAMBIA99-3XHA. PGN complementation lines were generated by cloning the full-length genomic sequence of PGN including 1.6 kb 5′ to the start codon into pCAMBIA1380. Sequences were amplified using the KOD DNA polymerase according to the manufacturer’s protocol with the addition of 1% dimethyl sulfoxide to each reaction (Novagen). Each binary vector was transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transformed into Arabidopsis (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on media containing hygromycin. The pgn (SALK_141937) mutant allele was identified from a segregating population obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center using T-DNA and gene-specific primers (CITATION). Homozygous abi1, abi5, erf1, and etr1 mutant alleles were also obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The full-length genomic sequence of PGN was inserted into pCAMBIA99-1-GFP to generate a 5′ PGN translational fusion. The construct was verified by sequencing and introduced into Agrobacterium (strain GV3101), which was subsequently used for transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana via agroinfiltration. Agrobacteria carrying the empty pCAMBIA99-1-GFP vector was used as a control. The mCHERRY mitochondrial marker was previously described (CITATION). Localization was observed using a Nikon Eclipse E800 epifluorescence microscope. Primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At1g56570. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. PGN expression at different developmental stages. Supplemental Figure S2. PGN mutation does not alter plant resistance to P. syringae. Supplemental Figure S3. The pgn mutant is not altered in expression of defense or abiotic stress response marker genes. Supplemental Figure S4. Multiple sequence alignment of PGN and closely related Arabidopsis proteins. Supplemental Figure S5. Germination and growth responses of the pgn mutant are not altered on ACC, SA, MeJA, GA, indole-3-acetic acid, or H2O2. Supplemental Figure S6. The pgn mutant is not impaired in oxidative stress tolerance. Supplemental Figure S7. The pgn mutant is not altered in retrograde signaling from the chloroplast. Supplemental Table S1. List of primers used in PGN study.
