!~ABS~! ► FLIM-FRET provides the first evidence for a flavonoid metabolon in living cells. ► Competition of branch-point enzymes may control the distribution of pathway flux. ► Pathway regulation and organization appears to be centered on a single “hub” enzyme.
!~RES~! Three enzymes of the core flavonoid biosynthetic pathway were selected for this study; CHS catalyzes the first committed step in flavonoid biosynthesis, while FLS1 and DFR lie at a major branch point in the pathway and share common substrates, the dihydroflavonols (CITATION ). A series of fluorescent protein fusion constructs under control of the e35S promoter to allow for transient expression in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were made for each enzyme utilizing the monomeric cyan and yellow variants, SCFP3A and SYFP2 CITATION, and the monomeric red fluorescent protein, mCherry CITATION. Immunoblot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody showed that full length fusion proteins were produced in protoplasts transfected with these construct (not shown). FLIM analysis showed a decrease in lifetime of FLS1-scfp3a when this protein was expressed together with either syfp2-CHS or CHS-syfp2 (CITATION ). Although there was a difference in mean reductions across experiments depending upon the orientation of CHS vis-à-vis syfp2 (CITATION; CITATION ), these were minor. Substantially smaller decreases in lifetime were observed for scfp3a-FLS1 in the presence of either CHS acceptor construct, suggesting that the presence of the fluorescent protein at the FLS1 N-terminus may interfere with its interaction with CHS. The co-expression of scfp3a-DFR with syfp2-CHS or CHS-syfp2 also showed a shift to shorter lifetimes from those seen for scfp3a-DFR alone (CITATION). Once again, the orientation of the fluorescent protein with regard to CHS had little impact on the relative FRET levels. This provides strong evidence for the interaction of CHS with both FLS1 and DFR in vivo. Previous yeast two-hybrid assays have suggested that FLS1 and DFR may also interact with each other CITATION. Indeed, FLIM-FRET measurements corroborate these earlier results because the scfp3a fluorescence lifetime of scfp3a-DFR is reduced by 8% or 9% in the presence of FLS1-syfp2 or syfp2-FLS1, respectively (CITATION). FRET efficiencies (E) based on τ(φ) were calculated for the FLS1/CHS, the DFR/CHS, and the DFR/FLS1 pairs (CITATION). These E values (≈10%) are comparable to what has been observed in studies of other protein pairs in plant systems using time-resolved based methods CITATION. By way of comparison, a linked syfp and scfp3a construct showed FRET efficiencies of 26.5% CITATION. For both the FLS1/CHS and the DFR/CHS pairs, the shifts observed in τ(m) were much less pronounced than those in τ(φ). This could be attributed to the presence of multiple populations of donor molecules exhibiting different levels of FRET; when there is a heterogeneous population of donor molecules, quenched (FRETing) and non-quenched (non-FRETing), the non-FRETing donors will contribute disproportionately to τ(m) measurements, resulting in a trend that can be represented by E(φ)> E(m) CITATION. Having established that both FLS1 and DFR interact with CHS, we next sought to examine if CHS could bind to each of these proteins simultaneously. For these experiments, syfp2-DFR and mCherry-CHS were used as the donor/acceptor pair, while FLS1-scfp3a was co-expressed as a competitor. The scfp3a tag on FLS1 allowed us to verify expression of the competitor, but did not interfere spectroscopically with energy transfer from syfp2 to mCherry (CITATION ). A decrease in donor lifetime was observed when expressing the syfp2-DFR/mCherry-CHS pair that was comparable to that seen earlier for scfp3a-DFR/syfp2-CHS. Notably, when FLS1-scfp3 was expressed at the same time, the donor lifetime for syfp3a-DFR shifted to a value close to that of the donor alone (CITATION ; CITATION), while unfused scfp3a did not affect syfp2-DFR to mCherry-CHS FRET. Additionally, the scfp3a-FLS1 construct, which showed lower FRET efficiencies with syfp2-CHS and CHS-syfp2 alone (CITATION), exhibited only minimal competition. The observed interference of the CHS–DFR association by FLS1 could occur through two possible mechanisms: the two enzymes could compete for a common or overlapping interaction site on CHS; alternatively, the ability of DFR to bind CHS could be impaired by the formation of FLS1–DFR complexes. Although each of these scenarios is possible and they are not necessary mutually exclusive, we favor the former. Our FLIM-FRET results show that attaching a fluorescent protein to the N-terminus of FLS1 seems to compromise its ability to bind with CHS. This same FLS1 construct also fails to appreciably disrupt the interaction between DFR and CHS. Yet, it does not appear to have an impact on the association with DFR, which occurs equally well whether the fluorescent protein is located at the N- or C-terminus of FLS1. If the mechanism by which FLS1 interfered with the DFR/CHS association was through a sequestering of DFR away from CHS, then both constructs should abrogate the FRET levels of the DFR–CHS pair equivalently. Therefore we believe our data are most consistent with a model where the disruption of the DFR–CHS interaction is dependent upon FLS1 binding to CHS, resulting in reorganization of the flavonoid complex and redistribution of flux into flavonol biosynthesis.
!~MM~! Using standard and Gateway (Invitrogen) cloning methods, cDNA sequences for CHS, FLS1, and DFR CITATION, fused to either syfp2, scfp3a CITATION, or mCherry CITATION were inserted into the plant expression vector, p2∼gw7 CITATION, containing the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (see CITATION). Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from 3- to 4-week-old Columbia wild-type or tt4 (Salk 020583) plants grown under short-day (11h light) conditions and transfected as described in Yoo et al. CITATION. Typically, 5–10μg of donor plasmid and 10–20μg of acceptor plasmid were used, a ratio that minimizes background from unbound donor. Competitor plasmids were transfected at the same concentration as acceptor plasmids. Protoplasts were incubated overnight for scfp3a/syfp2 pairs and for 36h for syfp2/mCherry pairs prior to analysis. Protoplasts were imaged in LabTek chambered coverglass (Nunc). Frequency-domain FLIM measurements were performed using the instrumental setup described in detail by van Munster and Gadella CITATION. The objective used was a Zeiss plan Neofluar 40× 1.3 NA oil-immersion. Samples with a scfp3a donor were excited with either a 442nm helium–cadmium laser (Melles-Griot) or a 440nm diode laser (PicoQuant) modulated at 75.1MHz; fluorescence was selected with a BP 460–500nm emission filter. Samples with a syfp2 donor were excited using a 514nm Argon laser (Melles-Griot) modulated at 75.1MHz by an acousto-optic modulator; fluorescence was selected with a BP 530–560 emission filter. FLIM stacks of 12–36 phase steps were acquired in permutated recording order to reduce artifacts due to photobleaching CITATION. Software for acquisition, processing, and analysis of the data was written in MATLAB 6.1 (Mathworks). Figures were generated using an ImageJ macro. Data were tabulated and graphs and tables were prepared in Excel (Microsoft). FRET efficiencies were calculated using the formula E =1−(τ DA/τ D). P values were calculated in Microsoft Excel using a two-tail Student’s t-test with Welch’s correction.
