!~ABS~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) SALT TOLERANCE/B-BOX ZINC FINGER PROTEIN24 (STO/BBX24) is a negative regulator of the light signal transduction that localizes to the nucleus of plant cells and interacts with CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1 (COP1) in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid system. The protein contains two B-box zinc-finger motives at the N terminus and a conserved motif at the C-terminal part required for the interaction with COP1. BBX24 accumulates during deetiolation of young seedlings in the first hours of exposure to light. However, this accumulation is transient and decreases after prolonged light irradiation. Here, we identified the amino acidic residues necessary for the nuclear import of the protein. In addition, we created mutated forms of the protein, and analyzed them by overexpression in the bbx24-1 mutant background. Our results indicate that the degradation of BBX24 occurs, or at least is initiated in the nucleus, and this nuclear localization is a prerequisite to fulfill its function in light signaling. Moreover, mutations in the region responsible for the interaction with COP1 revealed that a physical interaction of the proteins is also required for degradation of BBX24 in the light and for normal photomorphogenesis.
!~RES~! BBX24 localizes in the nucleus (CITATION). To determine its NLS, constructs carrying the full-length coding region of BBX24, or different deletions of the cDNA were fused in frame to the EGFP cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. To avoid nuclear accumulation of small Mr proteins by diffusion through the nuclear pores, the cDNA coding for GUS was placed between the EGFP and the BBX24 deletions. These deletion constructs were used to transfect Arabidopsis protoplasts and the subcellular localization of the transiently expressed proteins was analyzed by confocal laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM). As previously reported (CITATION), the EGFP-GUS-BBX24 protein fusion was detected exclusively in the nucleus (Fig. 1B), whereas the EGFP-GUS fusion used as control, was detected entirely in the cytosol (Fig. 1A). Analysis of the amino acid sequence of BBX24 revealed a putative NLS comprising the amino acids 226 to 229 (KKPR) in the C-terminal part of the protein. According to this analysis, a fragment containing the last 26 amino acids of the protein (residues 223–248; C26-BBX24), and another fragment containing only the last 16 amino acids (residues 233–248; C16-BBX24) and therefore excluding the KKPR motif, were fused to the EGFP-GUS chimeric protein. The 26-amino acid fragment was sufficient to direct the fusion protein into the nucleus (Fig. 1C) whereas in the absence of the KKPR motif, the fusion protein localized exclusively in the cytosol (Fig. 1D). Further detailed analysis of the NLS motif was performed by introducing a point mutation into the full-length BBX24 cDNA. The exchange of Lys-226 to Asn (bbx24NLS) was sufficient to prevent nuclear import of the fusion protein (Fig. 1E). [[FIGURE]] Accumulation of EGFP-BBX24 occurs during deetiolation in the first hours of exposure to white light but this accumulation stops after prolonged light exposure (CITATION). Transgenic lines carrying N-terminal or C-terminal EGFP fusions showed the same dynamics of protein accumulation during deetiolation treatments, varying only in the intensity of the GFP signal in different overexpressing lines (Supplemental Fig. S1A). In addition, both types of transgenic lines display similar photomorphogenic phenotypes under monochromatic light (Supplemental Fig. S1B). To investigate the biological relevance of the nuclear localization of BBX24, we generated transgenic homozygous bbx24-1 lines constitutively expressing EGFP-BBX24 or EGFP-bbx24NLS. The subcellular localization of EGFP-BBX24 and EGFP-bbx24NLS in 5-d-old etiolated seedlings was analyzed immediately after the period of growth in darkness, or after transfer to continuous white light (cWL; 120 μmol m−2 s−1). White light treatment of the overexpressor EGFP-BBX24, or the EGFP-BBX24/bbx24-1 lines led to the accumulation of the fusion protein in the nucleus (Fig. 2A). However, in the line overexpressing the mutated version of the protein (EGFP-bbx24NLS) cytosolic, but not nuclear GFP already appeared in the dark-grown seedlings. Moreover, after prolonged light exposure, even at time points where the EGFP-BBX24 signal diminished, the EGFP-bbx24NLS expressing plants still displayed a clear fluorescence signal (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] Western-blot analysis on protein extracts of the 5-d-old transgenic seedlings revealed an approximately 60-kD mass band that corresponds to the expressed fusion protein. The expression pattern resembled the microscopy observations, except for the weaker band present in the EGFP-bbx24NLS dark samples (Fig. 2B). This band correlates to the lower amount of EGFP-bbx24NLS transcripts in the dark (Supplemental Fig. S2). These results indicate that degradation of BBX24 in the dark and after prolonged light exposure mostly takes place, or at least initiates in the nucleus. BBX24 is a negative regulator of red, far-red, and blue-light-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation (CITATION). To investigate whether the nuclear localization of the protein is a prerequisite for its function, we carried out light fluence-rate response experiments with the above-described transgenic lines. Seeds were germinated on filter paper and grown for 5 d at 22°C under continuous red (cR; 4.7–44 μmol m−2 s−1), far-red (cFR; 0.43–2.5 μmol m−2 s−1), or blue light (cB; 1.3–7.3 μmol m−2 s−1). As previously reported (CITATION), bbx24-1 exhibits under monochromatic light fluences a pronounced inhibition of hypocotyl growth compared to the wild type. Independent EGFP-bbx24NLS/bbx24-1 transgenic lines displayed a similar reduction of hypocotyl elongation, as did bbx24-1, whereas dark-grown seedlings exhibited similar hypocotyl length as the wild type. This indicates that the mutant phenotype is not rescued by the overexpression of EGFP-bbx24NLS (Fig. 2C). As positive control, a line overexpressing the wild-type BBX24 fused to the EGFP in the mutant background (p35S:EGFP-BBX24/bbx24-1) was used throughout the experiment. The amount of BBX24-EGFP was reduced in the bbx24-1 background relative to the corresponding overexpressing line (Fig. 2B). Nevertheless, the expression level was sufficient to rescue the bbx24-1 mutation, indicating that ectopic expression of the wild-type protein complements BBX24 function. These results provide evidence that overexpression of BBX24 in the cytosol does not rescue the bbx24-1 phenotype, and therefore argue that the localization of BBX24 in the nucleus is essential to fulfill its function in the light-dependent hypocotyl elongation. As already mentioned, BBX24 confers tolerance to yeast cells growing on lithium chloride (LiCl) media (CITATION). To verify into which extent the introduced point mutation might affect the function of the protein, we expressed BBX24, EGFP-bbx24NLS, or a new protein fusion containing EGFP-bbx24NLS with an additional SV40 NLS (EGFP-bbx24NLS-SV40NLS) in yeast. Yeast cells expressing either the negative control or EGFP-bbx24NLS did not grow on media containing 350 mm LiCl but expression of EGFP-bbx24NLS-SV40NLS conferred similar tolerance to high LiCl concentrations as the wild-type protein (Supplemental Fig. S3A). In addition, we also found that BBX24 hosts intrinsic transcription activity (autoactivation) when used in the yeast two-hybrid system. We also used this property to test the function of EGFP-bbx24NLS and found no difference in the growth capacity on selection media between cells expressing BBX24 and those expressing EGFP-bbx24NLS in the nucleus. In both cases, the fusion to the DNA binding domain provided in the bait vector of the yeast two hybrid allowed the growth of the cells on SD−Trp/−His (selective drop-out) medium containing 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (Supplemental Fig. S3B), demonstrating that the introduced point mutation does not affect the autoactivation activity of the protein. These findings indicate that also in yeast the function of BBX24 is strongly linked to its nuclear localization. Cys-rich B-box Zn-finger domains mediate protein-protein, and protein-DNA interactions (CITATION). BBX24 contains two tandem repeat B-box Zn fingers at the N-terminal part of the protein. Transient expression assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed that the EGFP fusion protein containing the N terminus of BBX24 (EGFP-N-BBX24) with the two B-box Zn fingers (amino acid 1–144) is present in the nucleus and the cytosol (Fig. 3A). To unravel possible roles for these domains, we produced homozygous transgenic bbx24-1 lines containing EGFP-N-BBX24 under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. Out of 10 independent monogenic lines, two showing the highest GFP signal were selected for further experiments. In 5-d-old etiolated seedlings, EGFP-N-BBX24 was present in the cytosol and in the nucleus of cells. Furthermore, the fluorescence signal remained in the cells after prolonged light treatment, indicating that the C-terminal part of BBX24 is required for the rapid turnover of the protein (Fig. 3B). We analyzed the level of expression of the chimeric protein by western blot using polyclonal antibodies raised against GFP. Seedlings of wild type, p35S:EGFP-BBX24/bbx24-1, and p35S:EGFP-N-BBX24/bbx24-1 were grown in darkness and transferred to cWL for 4 or 24 h. The results showed an approximately 60-kD mass band after 4 h induction in the p35S:EGFP-BBX24/bbx24-1 sample but no band could be detected in the p35S:EGFP-N-BBX24/bbx24-1 lines (data not shown). We performed quantitative reverse transcription PCR analysis to estimate the amount of transcripts of the transgene, and to compare it to the endogenous amount of transcripts in the wild type. The level of EGFP-N-BBX24 transcripts was evidently much lower than the amount of BBX24 (Supplemental Fig. S4). In addition, we carried out light fluence-rate response experiments to investigate whether the small fraction of the fusion protein that accumulated in the nucleus was sufficient to complement BBX24 function. However, the results showed that the bbx24-1 phenotype in those lines was not rescued (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] As mentioned before, a physical interaction occurs in the yeast two-hybrid system assay via the WD40 repeat of COP1 and identified conserved amino acid residues present in BBX24, HY5, and STH/BBX25 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To analyze whether the interaction with COP1 affects BBX24 function, we introduced two point mutations that exchange the residues V244A and P245A of BBX24 into the BBX24 cDNA (EGFP-bbx24COP1). The introduced amino acidic changes, already described by CITATION, prevent the interaction of both proteins in the yeast two-hybrid system but do not change the subcellular localization pattern in protoplasts (Fig. 4A). To confirm that in fact those mutations hamper the interaction with COP1 in plant cells, we coexpressed ECFP-bbx24COP1 and EYFP-COP1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts. In addition, we also tested the localization of ECFP-bbx24NLS and ECFP-N-BBX24 together with EYFP-COP1. COP1 accumulates strongly in both the nucleus and the cytosol, forming aggregates of different sizes in both cellular compartments (CITATION). As previously reported (CITATION), single transfection of ECFP-BBX24 led to a diffuse distribution of the protein in the nucleus (Fig. 1B), whereas coexpression of BBX24-ECFP and EYFP-COP1 resulted in colocalization of both fusion proteins in the same nuclear, and cytosolic aggregates (Fig. 4B). The mutation introduced in the NLS led to the localization of ECFP-bbx24NLS exclusively in the cytosol in a diffuse manner (Fig. 1E). However, coexpression of ECFP-bbx24NLS and EYFP-COP1 resulted in the colocalization of both proteins to the same cytosolic aggregations (Fig. 4C). Coexpression of ECFP-N-BBX24 and EYFP-COP1 did not display any colocalization signal, and ECFP-N-BBX24 still distributed diffusely in both cell compartments (Fig. 4D). In the case of ECFP-bbx24COP1, single transfection or cotransfection with EYFP-COP1 invariably resulted in a diffuse distribution of the ECFP in the nucleus (Fig. 4, A and E), demonstrating that the described point mutations introduced into BBX24 were sufficient to prevent COP1 colocalization also in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] To investigate in planta the effect of the bbx24COP1 mutation, we generated transgenic lines overexpressing EGFP-bbx24COP1 in the bbx24-1 mutant, and analyzed the subcellular localization in 5-d-old seedlings. In etiolated seedlings, and in seedlings treated for 4 h with cWL, EGFP-bbx24COP1 displayed similar behavior as the wild-type protein fusion EGFP-BBX24. Thus, we did not observe any GFP fluorescence in the dark whereas after few hours of light treatment fluorescent nuclei appeared in the cells (Fig. 5A). However, after 24 h of continuous light exposure, only the EGFP-bbx24COP1/bbx24-1 lines showed a fluorescence signal (Fig. 5A). Western-blot analysis confirmed these results (Fig. 5B), indicating that mutations affecting the interaction with COP1 stabilize the protein in prolonged light exposure. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the nature of the degradation process that takes place in the dark, etiolated seedlings overexpressing EGFP-bbx24COP1 were treated with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132 and analyzed after 24 h by fluorescence microscopy. Whereas the control seedlings did not display any fluorescence signal, seedlings treated with the inhibitor exhibited several fluorescent nuclei in hypocotyls (Fig. 5C), demonstrating that the degradation of the protein in the dark depends on the 26S proteasome. BBX24-EGFP accumulates in the cop1-4 mutant in the dark and this result suggested a COP1-dependent degradation of the protein in darkness (CITATION). However, our results indicated that degradation of BBX24 occurs even if the direct interaction with COP1 is hampered (Fig. 5, A and B). We therefore investigated the stability of the mutant protein fusion EGFP-bbx24COP1 in the cop1-4 background. Crosses between cop1-4 and one of the EGFP-bbx24COP1/bbx24-1 transgenic lines were produced and the F2 generation was analyzed after growing the seedlings for 5 d in the dark. Approximately 25% of the siblings exhibited a cop1-4 phenotype in the dark. The analysis of the etiolated cop1-4 progeny revealed that around 75% of this population exhibited GFP signal in the nuclei of root cells (Fig. 5D). However, due to the strong autofluorescence displayed by these seedlings we were unable to detect clear GFP signal in other tissues. In the rest of the progeny (i.e. seedlings displaying long hypocotyls) the GFP signal could not be detected, suggesting that the degradation of EGFP-bbx24COP1 is COP1 dependent. To test whether the interaction with COP1 is relevant for the function of BBX24, we carried out light fluence-rate response experiments using the above-mentioned transgenic lines overexpressing EGFP-bbx24COP1 in the bbx24-1 mutant. We could not observe differences between the hypocotyls length of the EGFP-bbx24COP1/bbx24-1 transgenic lines and the bbx24-1 mutant, whereas the positive control could rescue the bbx24-1 phenotype (Fig. 5E). This indicates that the overexpression of EGFP-bbx24COP1 does not complement BBX24 function. These results support the idea that the interaction with COP1 is necessary for the correct function of BBX24. To verify that the observed result is not due to an effect of the introduced mutations, causing for example misfolding of the protein, we performed yeast assays as described above. We found that the introduced point mutations did not affect either the salt tolerance capacity nor the autoactivation activity of the protein in yeast (Supplemental Fig. S5).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants used in this study were in Columbia-0 background. The bbx24-1 T-DNA line (SALK_067473) was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, and it was previously described by CITATION as sto. Seeds were sown on filter paper and treated as described by CITATION. For light fluence-rate response analyses, plates were then transferred to dark, or to specific light conditions described by CITATION and CITATION, and incubated for 4 d at 22°C. For deetiolation experiments, plants were grown for 5 d in the dark at 22°C and then transferred to cWL (120 μmol m−2 s−1). Hypocotyls length was measured using ZEISS AXIOVISION 4.0 software. All values are presented as the mean ± sd for minimum three experiments of around 30 seedlings per line. Comparisons were performed by two-tailed paired Student’s t test. P values < 0.01 were considered as statistically significant. BBX24 full-length cDNA and p35S:EYFP-COP1 used in this work were described by CITATION. Generation of N-BBX24 was achieved by PCR amplification of BBX24 using primers 5′-TTACCCGGGATGAAGATACAATGTGATGTGTGTG-3′ and 5′-CGGTGGATTCAATATCAGAGAAGTGA-3′. This PCR fragment was digested with SmaI and HincII and cloned in frame with the EGFP cDNA in the plasmid pBS 35S:EGFP+term. Generation of bbx24NLS was achieved in two steps. In the first step, a DNA fragment encoding the N terminus of BBX24 was amplified using the primers 5′-CGGAATTCATCCCACCTACTTGTTCCCCACA-3′ and 5′-AACCTAGGCTTGTTGTGTGAAACATTTGAC-3′, that introduced a mutation in nt 928 (provoking an exchange K226N in the NLS) and added an XmaJI restriction site. A second PCR to obtain the C terminus was performed using the primers 5′-GGGAAGCTTGAACAAAACTCAAACACAGACATTTGT-3′ and 5′-AAGCCTAGGTTTGAGACCAGATATGATG-3′ that introduces also an XmaJI restriction site. In the next step, the two fragments were cut with BglII and XmaJI and subcloned to create a vector that carried the whole BBX24 sequence containing the mutated NLS from KKPR to NKPR. The mutated coding sequence was then amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-TATCCCGGGATGAAGATACAGTGTGATGTGTG-3′ and 5′-GGGAAGCTTGAA-CAAAACTCAAACACAGACATTTGT-3′, digested with HindIII and XmaI, and cloned in frame with the EGFP in the plasmid pBS 35S:EGFP+term. Mutation of N-BBX24 was achieved by PCR using primers TTACCCGGGATGAAGATACAATGTGATGTGTGTG and CGGTGGATTCAATATCAGAGAAGTGA, digested with SmaI and HincII, and cloned in frame with the EGFP in the plasmid pBS 35S:EGFP+term. Mutation of the COP1 interaction residues was achieved by PCR amplification of the BBX24 cDNA using the forward primer 5′-TATCCCGGGATGAAGATACAGTGTGATGTGTG-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-ATGGATCCTTAGCCAAGATCAGCGGCAATGAAGTG-3′ that introduced a mutation at nt 926 and 928 and resulted into V244A and P245A exchanges of the BBX24 amino acid sequence. The PCR product was digested with BamHI and XmaI and cloned in frame with the EGFP cDNA in the plasmid pBS 35S EGFP+term. EGFP fusion constructs were subcloned into the plant binary vector pCambia-2300 (Cambia). For colocalization experiments, the EGFP cDNA was substituted by the ECFP cDNA. For expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), BBX24 or mutated bbx24 cDNAs were introduced in the yeast expression vector pFL61 (CITATION) or cloned in frame to the C terminus of the GAL4 binding domain of the bait vector pGBT9 (Clontech). Polyethylene glycol transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed as described by CITATION. Arabidopsis plants were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) via the floral-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on plates containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Selected plants were transferred to soil, grown to maturation, and T2 seeds were harvested. Only T2 populations showing a segregation ratio of 3:1 on selection media were chosen to obtain the homozygous T3 generation. The C-terminal part (amino acids 125–248) of BBX24 was used to raise polyclonal antibodies against BBX24. Recombinant GST-C-BBX24 was generated in Escherichia coli BL21-Codon Plus (DE3)-Ril cells (Stratagene) and then purified with glutathione sepharose 4B (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) according to manufacturer’s instructions. After thrombin digestion, C-BBX24 protein was used for rabbit immunization (Eurogentec). Affinity purification of antiserum was achieved by Affi Gel 10 activated immunoaffinity support (BioRAD). Plant tissue was frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground with a pestle. Total protein was isolated using PeqGOLD TriFast reagent (Peqlab) according to manufacturer’s instructions. Protein pellets were resuspended in 1% (w/v) SDS and protein concentration was quantified by the Qubit Fluorometer protein assay (Invitrogen). Equal amounts of denatured total protein were separated in SDS-PAGE using a 12% resolving gel and proteins were transferred by electro blotting onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Millipore). Immune detection was performed using anti-BBX24, anti-GFP antibodies for detecting the N-terminal fusion, or anti-actin (AtACT8) antibodies (Sigma) as primary antibodies. As secondary antibodies peroxidase-coupled anti-rabbit or anti-mouse antibodies (Sigma) were used. Detection of the proteins was performed using the ECL western blotting detection reagents kit (Amersham). Epifluorescence and light microscopy of plant seedlings was performed with an Axiovision microscope with the appropriate filter settings (Zeiss). Pictures were taken with a digital camera system using the AXIOVISION software 4.6 (Zeiss). For confocal microscopy the LSM510 META microscopy system and software was used (Zeiss). Representative cells were chosen for digital images. Photographs were mounted with ADOBE PHOTOSHOP. The MG132 (carbobenzoxy-l-leucyle-l-leucyle-l-leucinale) powder was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide to a concentration of 20 mm. For the treatment, MG132 was diluted in water to a 50 μm final concentration. Dark-grown 5-d-old seedlings were vacuum infiltrated with the MG132 solution three times for 10 s. Fluorescence microscopy analysis was performed with samples taken after 24 h of incubation in the dark. Control plants were treated in parallel with dimethyl sulfoxide in distilled, deionized water (1:400). For salt tolerance experiments, the pFL61 vector was used to transfect DBY689 (CITATION) using the method described by CITATION. Transformed colonies were selected on yeast drop-out selection medium lacking uracil. Overnight cultures of three different colonies per construct together with a negative control were spotted on media supplemented with 250 μm or 350 μm LiCl. Growth of cells at 30°C was evaluated after 2 to 4 d. Autoactivation of wild-type BBX24 or BBX24 mutations was investigated by expressing the protein fused to the DNA binding domain of the GAL4 transcription factor in the yeast strain Y190. After transformation positive colonies were selected on plates lacking Trp (SD−Trp). Overnight cultures of the transformants were grown in selective liquid media and then spotted on SD−Trp/−His plates containing 0, 45, or 100 mm of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. Growth of the different clones was evaluated after 2 to 4 d. Total RNA was isolated using QIAGEN RNeasy mini kit, according to manufacturer’s protocol. First-strand synthesis was performed using GeneAmp reverse transcription reagents (Applied Biosystems). SYBR-Green (Thermo Scientific) real-time reverse transcription PCR assays were carried out with an ABI Prism 7000 (Applied Biosystems) using actin rRNA levels for normalization. The relative quantity of the transcripts was calculated by means of the comparative threshold cycle method (CITATION). The following primers were employed in this assay: BBX24 fw: 5′-CCACTTCCCTGGGCTGTT-3′, BBX24 rev: 5′-CCCAAGATCAAGC-TGTCCTTT-3′, N-BBX24 fw: 5′-CACGTGGCTAATTCTCGATCTG-3′, N-BBX24 rev: 5′-GGAAGGCTCAGGTTGATTCTTCTC-3′, Actin fw: 5′-CGCTATGTATGTCGCCA-3′, and Actin rev: 5′-CTTGCCCATCGGGTAA-3′. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AT1G06040/NM_100484. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Functional analysis of N-terminal and C-terminal fusions of EGFP and BBX24. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression analysis of BBX24NLS. Supplemental Figure S3. Effect of EGFP-BBX24NLS expression in yeast. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression analysis of N-BBX24 in the bbx24-1 transgenic line. Supplemental Figure S5. Effect of EGFP-BBX24COP1 expression in yeast.
