!~ABS~! The assembly, sorting signals, and turnover of the tonoplast potassium channel AtTPK1 of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were studied. We used transgenic Arabidopsis expressing a TPK1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion or protoplasts transiently transformed with chimeric constructs based on domain exchange between TPK1 and TPK4, the only TPK family member not located at the tonoplast. The results show that TPK1-GFP is a dimer and that the newly synthesized polypeptides transiently interact with a thus-far unidentified 20-kD polypeptide. A subset of the TPK1-TPK4 chimeras were unable to assemble correctly and these remained located in the endoplasmic reticulum where they interacted with the binding protein chaperone. Therefore, TPK1 must assemble correctly to pass endoplasmic reticulum quality control. Substitution of the cytosolic C terminus of TPK4 with the corresponding domain of TPK1 was sufficient to allow tonoplast delivery, indicating that this domain contains tonoplast sorting information. Pulse-chase labeling indicated that TPK1-GFP has a half-life of at least 24 h. Turnover of the fusion protein involves internalization into the vacuole where the GFP domain is released. This indicates a possible mechanism for the turnover of tonoplast proteins.
!~RES~! TPK1 has been localized at the tonoplast when expressed transiently or in transgenic BY2 tobacco cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We first wanted to confirm this localization in transgenic Arabidopsis. Endogenous expression of TPK1 is rather low in general and very low in tissues other than leaves (CITATION). We reasoned that expression under endogenous promoter would have made detection of the recombinant protein very difficult. As the addition of a GFP tag at the C terminus does not modify the tonoplast localization of TPK1 in tobacco BY2 cells (CITATION), we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing TPK1-GFP under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. These plants do not have any evident phenotype alteration when grown in normal conditions. To verify whether TPK1-GFP was correctly synthesized, we first analyzed total leaf protein extracts by SDS-PAGE and protein blot using anti-GFP antiserum (Fig. 1B). Two closely migrating polypeptides with apparent molecular mass around 66 kD (black arrowhead) and one around 28 kD (white arrowhead) were specifically recognized in the transgenic plants. This pattern was consistently produced in independent transgenic lines (not shown). T2 plants from the same transformation event showed variable extents of TPK1-GFP accumulation (Fig. 1B), but in T3 plants the level was constant. The two larger polypeptides around 66 kD most probably correspond to full-length TPK1-GFP, as its predicted molecular mass is 67.6 kD. The close migration of the two bands suggests that TPK1-GFP can have two different conformations or undergo covalent modifications. TPK1 contains one potential N-glycosylation site (Asn131SerSer). However TPK1-GFP is not N-glycosylated (Supplemental Fig. S1). The difference between the two closely related polypeptides must therefore have another explanation. The 28-kD polypeptide (Fig. 1B) is clearly detectable only in plants that have high accumulation of the 66-kD forms and may correspond to a degradation product containing the GFP epitopes recognized by the antibody. Its apparent molecular mass resembles that of GFP, indicating that this TPK1-GFP fragment contains most of the GFP sequence. For brevity, hereon this polypeptide will be referred to as free GFP. The subcellular localization of TPK1-GFP was determined in leaf epidermal cells and root tissues by epifluorescence microscopy (Fig. 1C). In both cases, fluorescence was at the tonoplast. No signal was detected at the plasma membrane (arrows) or other endomembranes. To further verify this result, microsomes were prepared from leaf homogenates and fractionated by isopycnic ultracentrifugation on continuous Suc gradient (Fig. 1D). Intact TPK1-GFP cofractionated with the tonoplast marker γ-TIP but not with the plasma membrane intrinsic protein2 (PIP2; CITATION) or the ER chaperone endoplasmin (CITATION). It can be concluded that TPK1-GFP is located at the tonoplast in transgenic Arabidopsis plants and that expression under the 35S promoter does not lead to saturation of its sorting machinery (which may lead to double localization, see for example CITATION). The assembly state of TPK1-GFP was analyzed by velocity Suc gradient centrifugations of leaf homogenates prepared in the presence of nonionic detergent. TPK1-GFP sedimented slightly slower than the 161-kD standard, indicating an apparent molecular mass consistent with a dimer of the 66-kD polypeptide (Fig. 2A, top section). Free GFP originating from TPK1-GFP migrated between the 12- and 43-kD markers, indicating that it is monomeric and thus strongly suggesting that it does not contribute to dimerization when it is part of TPK1-GFP (Fig. 2B, top section). [[FIGURE]] The intersubunit interactions of the viral K+ channel Kcv are disrupted in the presence of high concentration of sodium ions (CITATION). We analyzed the assembly of TPK1-GFP in the presence of 200 mm Na+ instead of 40 mm K+ or, as a control, after denaturation with 1% SDS (Fig. 2A, center and bottom sections). The sedimentation of TPK1-GFP was not affected by the high sodium conditions. On the opposite, SDS-denatured TPK1-GFP migrated as a monomer, between the 43- and 66-kD markers. Treatment with SDS did not cause any general protein migration artifact, since the SDS-denatured protein standards sedimented according to the molecular mass of their monomeric forms (not shown). Similarly, the migration of free GFP was not affected by high sodium or SDS (Fig. 2B, center and bottom sections). We conclude that TPK1-GFP is a homodimer and that its assembly is not disrupted by high sodium concentration. We investigated the dynamics of TPK1-GFP dimer formation by pulse-chase analysis. Attempts to use intact transgenic plantlets were unsuccessful, because incorporation of radioactive amino acids into TPK1-GFP continued during the chase, indicating slow uptake and depletion (not shown). Pulse chase was therefore performed on protoplasts isolated from transgenic leaves. Protoplasts were subjected to 30-min pulse or to 1-h pulse followed by 4-h chase. Protoplast homogenates were then analyzed by velocity gradient centrifugation followed by immunoprecipitation of each fraction with anti-GFP antiserum, SDS-PAGE, and radiography scanning. After the 30-min pulse, no TPK1-GFP peak was detectable in the gradient region between the 43- and 66-kD markers, where monomers are expected to migrate (Fig. 3A). Newly synthesized TPK1-GFP was however in a complex of about 161 kD, slightly larger than the one detectable at steady state by protein blot. After 4-h chase, radioactive TPK1-GFP had shifted to lighter fractions, indicating that the expected dimers had been formed (Fig. 3B, compare with 3A and with 2A, top section). At 4-h chase free GFP becomes also clearly detectable, as radioactive monomers, indicating that GFP release is a posttranslational event occurring in vivo, and it is not due to in vitro proteolytic degradation. The time-dependent shift of intact TPK1-GFP is accounted for by the coimmunoselection of a radioactive polypeptide of about 20 kD after the short pulse but not after the chase (Fig. 3A, asterisk, and compare with 3B). This unidentified polypeptide comigrated along the gradient with full-length TPK1-GFP and was therefore transiently associated with it. Coselection of the 20-kD component with TPK1-GFP was also clearly detectable when immunoprecipitation was performed on unfractionated protoplast homogenates after pulse labeling, and gradually decreased during the chase (see Fig. 6A, asterisk). The component was not selected at late chase points or from labeled wild-type protoplasts (Fig. 6A). Therefore, it is not an unspecific contaminant of immunoprecipitation but rather a protein that transiently interacts with newly synthesized TPK1-GFP. [[FIGURE]] A simple explanation of these results is that at 30-min pulse newly synthesized TPK1-GFP is already assembled into dimers that form a transient complex with the 20-kD polypeptide. As there is no information about the stoichiometry of the complex, it cannot be ruled out that this is instead composed of a single, not-yet-assembled TPK1-GFP subunit and several copies of the 20-kD polypeptide. To identify sorting signals present in AtTPK1, we exchanged various domains between TPK1-GFP and AtTPK4, the only member of the TPK family not located at the tonoplast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We performed transient expression in protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis cell culture and analyzed the samples by confocal microscopy 40 h after transfection. TPK1-GFP was located at the tonoplast and occasionally in internal bulbs, but never at the plasma membrane, identified by FM4-64 staining (Fig. 4A; Supplemental Fig. S2). TPK4-GFP was mostly in not-well-defined internal membranes but not at the tonoplast. Its frequent perinuclear distribution indicated at least partial retention in the ER, but the overall pattern was not typical of this compartment, perhaps suggesting a distortion of internal endomembranes (Fig. 4; Supplemental Fig. S2). FM4-64 staining indicated that TPK4-GFP delivery to the plasma membrane is very inefficient in Arabidopsis protoplasts. When apparent overlapping of the two signals was observed, this was in patches and never along an entire protoplast (Supplemental Fig. S2). The overall pattern is similar to those observed when TPK4-GFP constructs were transiently expressed in onion epidermis (CITATION; CITATION) or Nicotiana benthamiana mesophyll cells (CITATION). To further verify the efficiency of traffic in our expression system, we transformed protoplasts with a GFP fusion of the plasma membrane ammonium transporter AtAMT2 (CITATION). This chimeric construct was efficiently delivered to its correct destination (Fig. 4A), indicating that the peculiar distribution of TPK4-GFP is not due to a general inefficiency of traffic to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] The relative contribution of TPK1 and TPK4 domains to each of the TPK1/TPK4 chimeras is illustrated in the cartoons at top of Figure 4B. All the resulting chimeras contained GFP at their C terminus, but the GFP acronym is omitted, for brevity. The amino acid sequences are reported in Supplemental Figure S3. While this project was undergoing, results obtained by an almost identical approach were reported, using transient expression in onion epidermal cells and localization of fluorescent TPK1-TPK4 chimeras by confocal microscopy (CITATION). For this reason, we will underline here only some aspects of our results. TPK1-N4 located at the tonoplast (with about 65% efficiency, similarly to TPK1-GFP), whereas TPK1-C4 and TPK4-1/2-TPK1-3/4 did not show any tonoplast labeling and were mainly located in typical reticular structures, indicating ER retention (Fig. 4B). These subcellular localizations are similar to those of the roughly corresponding constructs studied by CITATION. TPK1-1/2-TPK4-3/4 was present in most protoplasts (between 70% and 90% in fully independent experiments) in extended membranes (Fig. 4B; Supplemental Fig. S2). This pattern was similar to that of TPK4-GFP, but TPK1-1/2-TPK4-3/4 could also be detected at the tonoplast. The reticular ER was labeled in only a minor percentage of protoplasts. The similar construct TPK1-P1-TPK4-P2 in CITATION gave an ER pattern. Finally, TPK4-C1, similar to the ER-located TPK4-TPK1CT in CITATION, clearly exited the ER: Almost no protoplasts (5%) exhibited the GFP signal in this compartment. More interestingly, the signal was in most cases (55%) observed at the tonoplast (Fig. 4B), although the fusion is mainly based on TPK4 backbone. Minor proportions were located in bulbs (20%) or in dots possibly corresponding to the Golgi complex (15%). This indicates that the TPK1 C-terminal, cytosolic domain is sufficient to sort TPK4 to the tonoplast of Arabidopsis protoplasts. As also suggested by CITATION, the ER localization of a number of TPK1-TPK4 exchange chimeras could be due to conformational defects rather than to the lack of signals for ER exit or tonoplast sorting. Assembly state and possible interactions with the ER machinery were therefore analyzed (Fig. 5A). Velocity gradient centrifugation of the tonoplast-located constructs TPK1-GFP, TPK1-N4, and TPK4-C1 indicated correct assembly into dimers (the latter two polypeptides have a smaller molecular mass than TPK1-GFP and therefore their dimers are also smaller). Conversely, the two ER-retained constructs TPK1-C4 and TPK4-1/2-TPK1-3/4 formed complexes that migrated either faster or markedly slower than the 161-kD marker. In fully independent experiments, the ER-retained fusion constructs never formed a single well-defined peak and showed variable distribution along the gradient, indicating disordered interactions and suggesting aggregation. [[FIGURE]] Proteins with defective folding or assembly can be found in abnormally extensive association with the ER chaperone binding protein (BiP), a major component of the ER quality control mechanism (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore analyzed whether BiP associates with any of the TPK1-TPK4 chimeras. Transfected protoplasts or untransfected control were pulse labeled for 1 h. Proteins were immunoprecipitated from cell homogenates with anti-GFP antiserum and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and radiography scanning (Fig. 5B). No radioactive polypeptide was immunoprecipitated from control protoplasts (wild type). As expected, newly synthesized TPK1-GFP migrated as a doublet around 66 kD. The TPK1-TPK4 chimeras had variable banding patterns in the same molecular mass region (Fig. 5B, black arrowhead). The level of expression (judged from band intensities) was also variable, although the higher intensity of the bands representing TPK1-N4, TPK4-1/2-TPK1-3/4, and TPK4-C1 could in part be ascribed to the fact that each of them migrated as a single band, unlike TPK1-GFP and TPK1-C4. It therefore appears that the synthesis of two different isoforms requires the N-terminal domain of TPK1, possibly because the unknown modification occurs within this domain. Several additional faintly labeled polypeptides were coimmunoselected together with the different constructs, most of them being equally present in all samples. However, two closely migrating polypeptides of about 75 to 80 kD were exclusively coselected with the ER-retained constructs (Fig. 5B, position indicated by the arrow). They were not coselected with TPK1-GFP, with the similarly traffic-competent TPK1-N4 and TPK4-C1, or with cytosolic GFP that was also transiently expressed as a further control (cGFP). Immunoselection of control protoplasts using antiserum against BiP strongly suggested that at least one of the two bands represents the chaperone (Fig. 5B, α-BiP). Like all chaperones of the heat-shock 70 protein family, BiP is an ATPase and can be released from its ligands by treatment with ATP (CITATION). In vitro treatment with ATP fully released the two closely migrating 75- to 80-kD polypeptides from the anti-GFP immunoprecipitate of protoplasts expressing TPK4-1/2-TPK1-3/4 (Fig. 5C, lanes 1–2). When the supernatant released by ATP treatment was immunoprecipitated with anti-BiP antiserum, the larger of the 75- to 80-kD polypeptides was selected, confirming that it is BiP and demonstrating that it specifically binds to the potassium channel chimeras due to its chaperone activity (Fig. 5C, lane 3). The detectable interaction of BiP with the two ER-retained TPK1-TPK4 chimeras, but not with those sorted to the tonoplast, confirmed that the former have conformational defects and are retained in the ER by quality control. The turnover mechanism of tonoplast proteins has not yet been specifically investigated. The long-term destiny of TPK1-GFP was therefore studied by pulse chase of protoplasts isolated from leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis. No radioactive polypeptide was immunoprecipitated from wild-type protoplasts used as a control (Fig. 6A). Radioactive, intact TPK1-GFP synthesized during 1-h pulse slowly decreased in amount during the chase, to reach about 50% of the original signal after 24 h (Fig. 6A, black arrowhead). This time-dependent decline is better appreciated when the gel is exposed for a short time (Fig. 6B). Free GFP became detectable only during the chase (Fig. 6A, white arrowhead), as already shown in Figure 3. Its intensity increased with time in parallel with the decrease of radioactive intact TPK1-GFP. Since we have no tools to follow the destiny of TPK1 after GFP release, it can be concluded that TPK1 half-life is of at least 24 h. Although chase in intact tissue is inefficient, not allowing an accurate measure of turnover rates, when pulse chase was performed on young transgenic plantlets free GFP was first detectable at 8-h chase (not shown), suggesting that the turnover rate is not influenced by protoplast isolation. [[FIGURE]] Establishing the subcellular compartment where free GFP is located could provide information on the turnover mechanism of TPK1-GFP. Traffic of TPK1-GFP fusions from the ER can be prevented by brefeldin A in transiently transfected onion epidermal cells (CITATION) and in our transgenic plants (Supplemental Fig. S4). When transgenic leaves were incubated for 24 h in the presence of the drug, the release of free GFP from TPK1-GFP was fully inhibited (Fig. 7A). Thus, the proteolytic event requires traffic and possibly occurs in the vacuole. Both intact TPK1-GFP and free GFP were detected by protein blot in vacuoles isolated from mesophyll protoplasts (Fig. 7B). Analysis of the same preparations with anti-BiP antiserum showed that the ratio between intact TPK1-GFP and BiP was greatly reversed when the protoplast and vacuole preparations were compared, indicating only minor contamination of vacuoles by the ER, which is the most abundant endomembrane. Free GFP was absent from a leaf microsomal preparation (Fig. 7C), confirming that it is a soluble polypeptide and that its presence in the isolated vacuoles cannot be due to contamination by other compartments. Finally, when protoplasts were subjected to pulse chase followed by vacuole isolation, radioactive free GFP immunoprecipitated at 24-h chase was quantitatively recovered with vacuoles and, more importantly, the ratio between free GFP and TPK1-GFP was higher in the vacuole sample compared to the total protoplast sample (Fig. 7D). This is in agreement with a scenario in which free GFP would be totally vacuolar and newly synthesized intact TPK1-GFP would also be in part in other compartments, en route to its tonoplast destination. [[FIGURE]] Free GFP released posttranslationally from TPK1-GFP is therefore located in vacuoles. However, GFP was fused at the C terminus of AtTPK1, which is predicted to be cytosolic (Fig. 1A). Isolated vacuoles were thus subjected to in vitro digestion with proteinase K to test the predicted orientation of the GFP tag (Fig. 7E). Intact TPK1-GFP was fully digested by proteinase K in the presence of nonionic detergent, leading to a marked increase in the amount of free GFP (that is rather resistant to proteolytic attack; see CITATION). In the absence of detergent, proteinase K released GFP from most TPK1-GFP molecules, indicating that the C-terminal domain has the expected cytosolic topology. However, a small proportion of TPK1-GFP polypeptides remained intact, indicating that they are located inside the vacuolar lumen, where the cleavage of GFP from TPK1-GFP eventually occurs in vivo. We often detected internal vacuolar structures labeled by TPK1-GFP (Fig. 1C, central section). These are very similar to the vacuolar bulbs described by CITATION, and could represent the first step of TPK1-GFP internalization from the tonoplast, en route to its physiological turnover. As described, delivery of plasma membrane proteins to the vacuole for degradation is signaled by ubiquitination (CITATION). We tested whether ubiquitinated TPK1-GFP could be detected by antiubiquitin antibodies or by mass spectrometry analysis of TPK1-GFP tryptic peptides. The results indicate that monoubiquitination is not the basis of the difference in molecular mass between the two TPK1-GFP isoforms (Supplemental Table S1) but suggest that a minor proportion of TPK1-GFP molecules, below the detection limit of our mass spectrometry assay, may be ubiquitinated (Supplemental Fig. S5), probably en route to degradation.
!~MM~! Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor. Wild-type or transgenic plants of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), ecotype Columbia, were grown in sterile conditions on half-concentrated Murashige and Skoog media (Duchefa Biochemie) supplemented with 10 g/L Suc and 0.8% (w/v) phyto agar (Duchefa Biochemie) at 23°C under a 16/8-h light/dark cycle. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing TPK1-GFP were generated by vacuum infiltration with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and the construct p35S-TPK1-GFP (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant plants (T0) were identified. Experiments were conducted using T2 or T3 plants. Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) suspension-cultured T87 cells (CITATION) were grown in JPL medium (CITATION) at 25°C under 16-h light/8-h dark cycle with 120 rpm agitation. Cell culture was maintained by weekly 1/10 dilution. The transient expression vector pA7-GFP (CITATION) was used for expression of cytosolic GFP. Wild-type TPK1 fused to GFP was expressed transiently using the pA7-TPK1-GFP construct (CITATION). Standard PCR reactions and subcloning procedures were used to engineer chimeric TPK1-TPK4 sequences. cDNA clones were isolated from cDNA preparations from seedlings or flowers of Arabidopsis (Columbia-0 ecotype). Complementary DNAs were cloned into plasmid pCRScript (Stratagene) or pCR2.1 (Invitrogen). C-terminal GFP fusion constructs were produced using pA7-GFP. The amino acid sequence of each chimeric protein is illustrated in Supplemental Figure S2. Protoplasts for transient expression were prepared from 7-d-old cell culture. Cells were washed twice with 0.5 m sorbitol, 1 mm CaCl2, 10 mm MES pH 5.6 and digested in the same medium containing 1% (w/v) cellulose, 0.25% (w/v) macerozyme, and 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin for 4 to 5 h at 26°C in darkness under shaking (60 rpm). The digestion solution was then brought to 15% (v/v) Percoll with Percoll solution (500 mm sorbitol, 1 mm CaCl2, 20 mm MES, pH 6.0 in Percoll [GE Healthcare]). Protoplasts were then isolated using a step gradient made as follows, from bottom to top: 5 mL 100% Percoll solution, digestion solution brought to 15% Percoll, 2 mL betaine solution (500 mm betaine, 1 mm CaCl2, 10 mm MES, pH 6.0). After centrifugation at 60g, 4°C for 8 min (brake off), protoplasts were recovered at the interface between 15% (v/v) Percoll and betaine solutions and washed with 20 mL W5 buffer (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl, 5 mm Glc, 0.03% MES, pH 5.8), centrifuged at 60g as above, and finally resuspended in 20 mL W5 buffer. Protoplasts were then transformed with 50 μg plasmid DNA using a polyethylene glycol-mediated procedure (CITATION) and analyzed 20 to 40 h after transformation. Leaf protoplasts were prepared from 4- to 6-week-old, axenic Arabidopsis plants. Leaves were cut on the lower epidermis side and laid down, first on 0.5 m mannitol for 1 h, then overnight on digestion solution (0.33% cellulase, 0.17% macerozyme, 0.4 m mannitol, 7 mm CaCl2, 3 mm MES pH 5.8). Protoplasts were then filtrated through a 0.63 μm inox filter and washed twice with W5 buffer. Protoplasts were finally resuspended at a concentration of 106 cell/mL in K3 medium (Gamborg’s basal media with minimal organics [Duchefa Biochemie] supplemented with 5 mm CaCl2, 3 mm NH4NO3, 0.4 m Suc, 1.5 mm Xyl, 1 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine, and 1 mg/L 1-naphtalenacetic acid, pH 5.5). Vacuoles were isolated from leaf protoplasts. About 7 million protoplasts were resuspended in 7-mL prewarmed (42°C) lysis buffer (10% [w/v] Ficoll 400, 0.2 m sorbitol, 10 mm HEPES pH 7.5). After 10-min incubation at room temperature, released vacuoles were isolated using a step gradient containing the vacuole-containing lysis buffer, 3 mL Ficoll solution (5% [w/v] Ficoll 400, 0.3 m sorbitol, 0.3 m betaine, 10 mm HEPES, pH 7.5), and 0.4-mL betaine solution (0.6 m betaine, 10 mm HEPES, pH 7.5). After centrifugation at 5,000g, 10°C for 30 min, vacuoles were collected at the interface between the Ficoll and betaine solutions. The activity of α-mannosidase was quantified by incubating samples with 0.6 mm p-nitrophenyl-α-d-mannopiranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) in 50 mm CH3COONa pH 5.0 at 30°C for 10, 30, or 60 min in a total volume of 500 μL. Reactions were stopped by adding 800 μL 1 m Na2CO3 and reaction product was quantified by reading A410. Protoplast or vacuole homogenates corresponding to equal activity were then analyzed by SDS-PAGE and protein blot. Protease protection assay was performed by treating isolated vacuoles for 60 min on ice with 0, 100, or 300 μg proteinase K (Sigma-Aldrich) in 400 μL 0.6 m betaine, 10 mm CaCl2, 50 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.5 with or without 0.75% Igepal (Sigma-Aldrich). The reaction was stopped by adding phenylmethanesulfonylfluoride to final concentration of 5 mm. For total protein extraction from plant tissues, Arabidopsis leaves (3–6 weeks old) were homogenized in ice-cold homogenization buffer (200 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 0.2% Triton X-100, 2% 2-mercaptoethanol, 100 mm Tri-Cl pH 7.8, supplemented with Complete protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]). After centrifugation at 5,000g, 4°C for 10 min, the resulting supernatant was considered as the total protein extract. For microsome preparation, leaf tissues were homogenized in ice-cold buffer containing 250 mm sorbitol, 2 mm EGTA, 2 mm EDTA, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 500 mm Tris-acetate pH 7.5 supplemented with Complete. After centrifugation at 5,000g, 4°C for 10 min, the supernatant was further centrifuged at 100,000g, 4°C for 30 min, and the resulting pellet resuspended in the original buffer before analysis by SDS-PAGE. Brefeldin A (Invitrogen) treatment was performed on whole leaves cut on the lower epidermis, as for protoplast preparation. Leaves were laid on liquid half-concentrated Murashige and Skoog media (Duchefa Biochemie) supplemented with 10 g/L Suc and either 50 μg/mL Brefeldin A (from a 2 mg/mL stock in ethanol) or equal volume of ethanol and incubated for 24 h at 23°C under a 16/8 h light/dark cycle. Leaf tissues were then gently dried with paper and homogenized as described above. Isopycnic gradient was performed as described in CITATION. For velocity centrifugation on Suc gradients, Arabidopsis leaves (3–6 weeks old) or protoplasts were homogenized in ice-cold buffer containing 40 mm KCl, 0.2% Triton X-100, 50 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.8 (2 mL per g of leaf tissue), supplemented with Complete. The homogenate was laid on a linear 5% to 25% (w/v) Suc gradient (20 mm KCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 25 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.5). An additional gradient was loaded with a mixture of markers containing 200 μg each of cytochrome C (12.4 kD), ovalbumin (43 kD), bovine serum albumin (67 kD), aldolase (161 kD), and catalase (232 kD). After centrifugation at 39,000 rpm, 4°C for 25 h in a Beckman SW40 rotor (200,000g average; Beckman Instruments), gradients were divided into 22 fractions of about 550 μL each and the precipitate at the bottom of the tube solubilized with 550 μL of SDS-PAGE loading buffer. Equal volumes of each fraction and solubilized precipitate were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. For protein blot, proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and then electrotransferred into nitrocellulose membrane (PerkinElmer). Membranes were then blotted as described in CITATION using the following antisera: anti-GFP (1:10,000 dilution; Invitrogen), anti-BiP (1:7,500; CITATION), antiendoplasmin (1:500; CITATION), anti-PiP2 (1:10,000; CITATION), or antiγ-TIP (1:1,000; prepared in chicken against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminal nine amino acids of Arabidopsis γ-TIP, a gift from N.V. Raikhel). Super West Pico chemiluminescence substrate (Pierce) was used according to the manufacturers’ protocol. Protein Mr Markers (Fermentas) were used as molecular mass markers. Pulse-chase labeling of protoplasts was performed as described by CITATION using Easytag mixture of 35S-labeled Met and Cys (PerkinElmer). Protoplasts were homogenized with 2 volumes of ice-cold 1.5× protoplast homogenization buffer (150 mm NaCl, 1.5 mm EDTA, 1.5% Triton X-100, 150 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.5, supplemented with Complete) and subjected to immunoprecipitation as described by CITATION using anti-GFP (Invitrogen) or anti-BiP antiserum. The immunoprecipitated proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE, using 14C-methylated proteins (Sigma) as molecular mass markers. Radioactive proteins were revealed either by scanning using Starion FLA-9000 phosphoimager system (Fujifilm) or by fluorography as described by CITATION. Quantization of bands representing radioactive proteins was performed using TotalLab software (TotalLab). For the ATP-release assay, protein extract was subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-GFP antiserum as described above. The protein A Sepharose beads were then incubated with 1-mL BiP release buffer (150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 6 mm MgCl2, 3 mm ATP, 20 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.5) for 90 min at 4°C with gentle shaking. The supernatant was recovered, brought to 0.25% (w/v) gelatin, 50 mm Tris-Cl pH 7.5, and subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-BiP antibody. Confocal microscopy of protoplasts was performed as described by CITATION. In some experiments, protoplasts were incubated with 50 μm FM4-64 (Sigma) in K3 medium 30 min before microscopy (CITATION). Subcellular localization of transiently expressed proteins was determined in blind experiments. For each construct, at least 20 protoplasts per construct were randomly chosen and observed in at least two fully independent transfections. Epifluorescence microscopy of plant tissues was performed using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 microscope (Zeiss) equipped for epifluorescence, followed by the collection of optical sections using Zeiss Apotome and Axiovision 4.1 software. Homogenate containing total proteins was prepared as described above from transgenic plants expressing TPK1-GFP. Proteins were immunoselected with anti-GFP antiserum and separated by SDS-PAGE. Upon Coomassie Blue staining, a major band corresponding to the larger AtTPK1-GFP isoform was identified and excised. After trypsin digestion (CITATION), the sample was analyzed on an Agilent 6520 Q-TOF mass spectrometer with an HPLC Chip Cube source (Agilent Technologies). Analysis of tandem mass spectrometry spectra for peptides identification was performed by database searching with Spectrum Mill software (Agilent Technologies). See the Supplemental Materials and Methods S1 for further details. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. TPK1-GFP is not N-glycosylated. Supplemental Figure S2. FM4-64 staining of transformed protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S3. Amino acid sequences of the TPK1-TPK4 chimeric constructs. Supplemental Figure S4. Brefeldin A treatment inhibits tonoplast delivery of TPK1-GFP in Arabidopsis root tissues. Supplemental Figure S5. Detection of ubiquitinated proteins. Supplemental Figure S6. Predicted BiP binding sites in TPK1-GFP. Supplemental Table S1. Graphical visualization of AtTPK1-GFP sequencing and list of liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry identified peptides. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Materials and Methods for Supplemental Data.
