!~ABS~! Cytokinin is a plant hormone essential for growth and development. The elucidation of its signalling pathway as a variant of the bacterial two-component signalling system (TCS) has led to a better understanding of how this hormone is involved in general plant processes. A set of cytokinin-regulated transcription factors known as cytokinin response factors (CRFs) have been described as a potential branch emanating from the TCS, yet little is known about how CRFs actually interact with each other and with members of the TCS pathway. Here the interactions of CRF proteins (CRF1–CRF8) using the yeast two-hybrid system and bimolecular fluorescence complementation in planta assays are described. It was found that CRFs are readily able to form both homo- and heterodimers with each other. The first analysis of CRF versus TCS pathway protein interactions is also provided, which indicates that CRFs (CRF1–CRF8) are able specifically to interact directly with most of the Arabidopsis histidine-phosphotransfer proteins (AHP1–AHP5) further solidifying their link to the cytokinin signalling pathway. In addition, the region of CRF proteins involved in these interactions was mapped and it was determined that the clade-specific CRF domain alone is sufficient for these interactions. This is the first described function for the CRF domain in plants.
!~RES~! The ability of CRF proteins both to homodimerize and to heterodimerize was examined using a combination of Y2H and in planta BiFC methods to assess interactions. In each method, copies of CRF1–CRF8 proteins were placed in specific vectors (see the Materials and methods) such that potential interactions could be assayed. This was conducted through growth on selection media of transformed yeast or through epifluorescence examination of BiFC of either double transformation of Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts or double Agrobacterium-infiltrated tobacco leaves. Results from these methods suggest that CRFs 1–8 are all able to form both homo- and heterodimers and no interactions are seen using any CRF and an empty vector (EV) control (CITATION). While all of these interactions could be seen using BiFC in protoplasts and many by Y2H, not every interaction could be detected by Y2H (CITATION). Specific examples of CRF homo- and heterodimerization via BiFC can be seen most clearly in the nucleus of the protoplasts examined, indicating that these interactions are probably occurring at or near the nucleus (CITATION, CITATION). It is possible that CRF–CRF interactions may also be occurring in the cytoplasm, although unlike easily detected interactions in the nucleus it can be difficult to discern cytoplasmic-specific changes in fluorescence between double transformed protoplasts and background levels. The lack of some interactions detected in Y2H compared with BiFC supports the idea that additional in planta factors, such as the presence of a functional TCS or potentially plant-specific post-translational modifications of CRFs, may be required for interactions detected in protoplasts that are lacking in the yeast system. CRF protein homo- and heterodimerization. (A) CRF proteins CRF1–CRF8 and just the CRF domain of CRF2 (otherwise noted as CRFD) were analysed for potential homo- and heterodimerization using both BiFC and Y2H. Positive interactions are noted as a (+), (+*) for both BiFC and Y2H together, and (–) for non-interactions. (B) A cartoon of the conserved regions of CRF1–CRF6 proteins, the highly related CRF7 and CRF8 proteins (lacking the C-terminal third of the protein, but containing both the CRF domain and the AP2/ERF domain), and CRFD (just the CRF domain of CRF2). (C, D) Representative examples of positive CRF protein homo- and heterodimerization by BiFC as indicated in A are shown both under UV light in the presence of Hoechst 33342 dye denoting the nucleus and using a YFP wavelength filter to visualize BiFC interaction. Additionally, representative examples of empty vector (EV) controls for both N- and C-terminal BiFC vectors (EVn and EVc) examined in A are shown versus various CRFs and each other. (C) BiFC interactions in protoplasts transformed via electroporation. (D) BiFC interactions in tobacco leaves transformed via Agrobacterium. In order to examine further if a specific region or domain of the CRF proteins might be involved in protein–protein interactions, use was made of both natural variation among CRF proteins and a truncated version of a CRF protein. A recent analysis of CRF protein sequences from all available organisms has revealed that CRFs are specific to land plant species (CITATION). The analysis of >125 different CRF proteins from a wide range of species revealed the presence of two distinct domains that are always present in CRF proteins: the conserved AP2/ERF transcription factor DNA-binding domain and a phylogenetic clade-specific domain of no known function designated as the CRF domain. Additionally, many of the CRF proteins examined also have a putative MAPK phosphorylation site motif. Sequence alignments always place the CRF domain in the N-terminal third of the protein, the AP2/ERF DNA-binding domain near the middle, and the putative MAPK phosphorylation site motif in the C-terminal third of CRF proteins (CITATION). The CRF1–CRF6 proteins that were examined each contain a CRF and a AP2/ERF domain as well as the putative MAPK motif. Two recently described CRF proteins, CRF7 (At1g22985.1) and CRF8 (At1g71130.1), are related to CRF1–CRF6, yet exist naturally without an extended C-terminal end present in many CRFs and thus lack the putative MAPK motif (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2002; CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATION). The ability of CRF7 and CRF8 to interact as homo- and heterodimers with other CRF proteins was examined using BiFC and Y2H. Both CRF7 and CRF8 were able to form homodimers by these methods (CITATION). Furthermore, CRF7 and CRF8 were able to form heterodimers with all other CRF proteins as seen by BiFC, and several also by Y2H (CITATION). Y2H-positive protein–protein interaction results were again only found for some of these interactions, also suggesting that additional in planta factors or plant-specific post-translational modifications are likely to be required for normal interactions to occur. However, as these CRF interactions occurred without the C-terminal region found in CRF1–CRF6, this indicates that the putative MAPK phosphorylation motif or any other feature in the C-terminal regions of these proteins are not necessary for CRF–CRF protein interaction. To narrow further the potential region of CRF proteins involved in interaction, it was decided to investigate the CRF domain, as it has no known function, yet it is specifically found only in this clade grouping of AP2/ERF proteins (CITATION). A truncated version of CRF2 was generated containing only the CRF domain (CRFD) to determine if this domain alone is sufficient for CRF protein interaction (CITATION). The CRFD was examined for its ability to homo- and heterodimerize with other CRFs similar to the full-length CRFs above. CRFD was able to form as a homodimer and also can heterodimerize with each of the other CRF proteins (1–8) as seen by BiFC and supported in several cases by Y2H in a similar manner to other CRFs and even the full-length CRF2 (CITATION). This indicates that the AP2/ERF domain is not necessary for dimerization to occur and that the CRF domain alone is sufficient for CRF–CRF protein interactions. Genetic analysis of TCS mutants has shown CRFs to be a side branch emanating from the multistep TCS pathway downstream of the AHPs and parallel to type-B ARRs in the regulation of cytokinin target genes (CITATIONet al., 2006). In order to better resolve the role of CRF proteins in the TCS pathway, the ability of the previously studied CRF1–CRF6 proteins to interact with proteins from each part of the TCS pathway: the receptors AHK2, 3, and 4; AHP1, 2, 3, 4, and 5; type-A ARR5 and 7; and type-B ARR10 and 12 was examined (CITATION). No interactions were observed between CRF1–CRF6 and AHK2, 3, and 4 in planta, indicating that CRFs probably do not interact with the cytokinin receptors. In contrast, almost every CRF interacted with each of the AHPs (CITATION). Only CRF2 and CRF3 showed no interaction with AHP2. This result strongly suggests that CRFs and AHPs directly interact in a number of different combinations. As these results parallel previous results of ARRs interacting with AHPs, they indicate that CRFs are directly connected to the cytokinin signalling pathway. CRFs showed almost no interactions with type-A ARRs, although both an ARR7–CRF1 and ARR7–CRF2 interaction could be detected. Similarly there were almost no interactions of CRFs with the tested type-B ARRs. However, interactions between these two transcription factor groups could be detected for ARR12–CRF1, ARR12–CRF2, and ARR10–CRF6. Similar experiments were conducted in the Y2H experimental system. Also with this method interactions were detected between CRFs and the only tested AHP, AHP5. Some weak interactions between CRFs and ARR1 were also identified. However, in both cases the interactions were weak and just above background (Supplementary Table S1 available at JXB online). These results corroborate what has been found before, namely that not all of the CRF interactions detected in the BiFC system can be detected in the heterologous yeast system as well. CRF protein interactions with members of the cytokinin signalling pathway. (A) CRF proteins, CRF1–CRF8, and CRFD (C-terminal) were analysed for potential interactions with TCS pathway proteins (N-terminal) using BiFC. Positive interactions are noted as (+) and non-interactions as (–). (B, C) Representative examples of positive and negative CRF protein interactions with TCS proteins as well as an empty vector control (EVc: C-terminal) by BiFC as indicated in A are shown both under UV light in the presence of Hoechst 33342 dye denoting the nucleus and using a YFP wavelength filter to visualize BiFC interaction. (B) BiFC interactions in protoplasts transformed via electroporation. (C) BiFC interactions in tobacco leaves transformed via Agrobacterium. Examinations of the specific region or motif of CRF proteins that is involved in CRF–CRF protein–protein interaction was also conducted in a similar manner for interactions with TCS proteins. Both CRF7 and CRF8 were used as natural variants lacking the C-terminal region found in CRF1–CRF6, which contains a putative MAPK motif, to determine if this or any other C-terminal feature was necessary for interactions between CRFs and parts of the TCS pathway. CRF7 and CRF8 showed similar interaction patterns between parts of the TCS pathway as compared with CRF1–CRF6 (CITATION). CRF7 and CRF8 were found to interact with most of the AHPs (1–4), and not with any of the receptor AHKs or either tested type-A or -B ARRs. This again indicates that the putative MAPK phosphorylation motif is not necessary for any interactions that have been examined for CRF proteins. Further analysis was conducted with CRFD to determine if the CRF domain alone was sufficient for interaction with parts of the TCS pathway using BiFC analysis. CRFD was found to interact in a manner similar to the full-length CRF proteins examined. CRFD did not interact with any of the receptors or type-B ARRs, but did interact with AHP1–AHP5 and the type-A ARR, ARR7, similarly to the full-length form of the CRF2 protein (CITATION). These results, coupled with the CRFD versus other CRF protein interactions, indicate that it is the CRF domain itself that is involved in interactions that were observed between other CRF proteins and parts of the TCS pathway.
!~MM~! All plasmids were generated using the Invitrogen GATEWAY™ system according to the manufacturer's instructions. Entry plasmids were generated for CRF1–CRF8 and the CRF domain using gene-specific PCR primers designed with attB1 and attB2 recombination sequences as adaptor sites such that these PCR products could be cloned into the entry vector pDONR207 or pDONR221 via a BP reaction (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). All full-length CRF genes were generated in this manner such that their stop codon was removed. All TCS gene cDNAs used were from previously generated entry clone plasmids (CITATIONet al., 2006). The entry clones of the full-length AHKs were obtained from different sources (CITATIONet al., 2007; CITATIONet al., 2011). The yeast two-hybrid analysis was done using a LexA DNA-binding domain-based bait vector (pBTM116c-D9; a kind gift of E. Wanker, MDC Berlin, Germany) and a Gal4 activation domain-encoding prey vector (pACT2; Clontech, Montain View, CA, USA), both adapted to the GATEWAY™ system (CITATIONet al., 2006). The respective cDNAs were shuttled into these vectors via in vitro recombination. Based on the LiAc method, yeast transformations were conducted as described earlier (CITATIONet al., 2005). Weak autoactivation of some hybrid proteins was suppressed by supplementing the interaction medium with 5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3AT), whereas strong autoactivating hybrid proteins were tested in the presence of up to 40 mM 3AT. All yeast clones were scored for interaction after a 7 d incubation period at 30 °C. BiFC was performed using entry clones for CRF genes (CRF1–CRF8) and CRFD (the first 180 bp of CRF2, containing the CRF domain) that were transferred to the destination clone vectors pSAT4-DEST-n(1–174)EYFP-C1 and pSAT5-DEST-c(175-end)EYFP-C1(B) using the LR reaction (Invitrogen) (CITATIONet al., 2005). Entry clones containing TCS genes (AHK2, 3, 4; AHP1, 2, 3, 4, 5; and ARR5, 7, 10, 12) were transferred to the destination clone vector pSAT4-DEST-n(1–174)EYFP-C1 using the LR reaction (Invitrogen) for potential BiFC interaction with CRF genes in pSAT5-DEST-c(175-end)EYFP-C1(B) vectors. Empty vectors (EVs) were also used for both N- and C-terminal constructs (EVn and EVc) as controls, transformed into protoplasts in conjunction with every potential functional interacting construct that was generated, and examined as detailed below and for selected constructs in Agrobacterium-transformed tobacco leaf examinations. Arabidopsis thaliana plants (Columbia ecotype) used for protoplast in planta BiFC experiments were grown under a long day cycle of 16 h light 22 °C, 8 h dark 18 °C. Leaf mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from leaves of 14- to 21-day-old plants prior to bolting as modified from CITATIONet al. (2006). Briefly, leaves were removed from plants, gently stacked, and sliced into 1 mm strips. Leaf strips were placed in enzyme solution [1% cellulase R10, 0.25% macerozyme R10, 0.4 M mannitol, 20 mM KCl, 20 mM MES pH 5.7 that was heated to 55 °C for 10 min, then cooled to room temperature before adding 10 mM CaCl2 and 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA), and finally passed through a 0.45 mm filter] under a vacuum for 30–60 min. Afterwards, leaf strips were shaken very gently at 40 rpm for 90 min, before being shaken more rapidly at 80–90 rpm for 10 min to release protoplasts from the leaf. Protoplasts were then filtered from larger plant material through a 40 μM cell sifter and centrifuged at 150 g so that they were gently pelleted. Enzyme solution was separated from the protoplast pellet, which was then very gently resuspended in 2 ml of cold protoplast enzyme washing/transformation buffer (0.5 M mannitol, 4 mM MES pH 5.7, and 20 nM KCl). Protoplasts were centrifuged again, washing buffer was removed, and then protoplasts were resuspended in a final volume of washing/transformation buffer prior to transformation and placed on ice until transformation, usually within 1 h. A 100 μl aliquot of transformation buffer containing ∼105 protoplasts along with ∼40–50 μg of plasmid DNA for each plasmid used were given two rapid pulses of 300 V for electroporation in a 0.1 mm electroporation cuvette using an Eppendorf Electroporator 2510. Protoplasts were then immediately placed on ice and left in the dark at 22 °C for 18 h before examination using epifluorescence microscopy. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants were grown under a long day cycle of 16 h light 26 °C, 8 h dark 22 ° C. Vectors used for transformation (CRF or TCS destination vectors or EVs, as described above) were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (LBA4404) using a method similar to that of CITATIONet al. (2006) leading to a floral dip. However, once properly antibiotic selected individual colonies had been identified, further grown up in liquid culture, and then spun down, they were then resuspended in infiltration medium (10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MES, 100 μM acetosyringone) and left at room temperature for 3 h similar to the method of CITATIONet al. (2002). The A. tumefaciens were then infiltrated into the abaxial side of 14- to 21-day-old plant leaves using a needle-less 2 ml syringe. Individual A. tumefaciens-transformed vectors were grown separately and then injected into unique sites within the same leaf. Plants were then examined for transient transformation and specific BiFC protein–protein interactions 48–72 h after injection using epifluorescence microscopy. BiFC in both Arabidopsis protoplasts and tobacco leaves was examined using a Nikon Eclipse 80i epifluorescence microscope with a UV source. A standard UV filter was used in addition to 1 ng ml−1 Hoechst 33342 dye initially to observe and identify nuclei in intact cells as a measure of the cell viability. A yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) filter that blocks both chlorophyll fluorescence and Hoechst 33342 fluorescence was used to examine localization of any split-YFP fusions that occur due to BiFC between proteins. Cytokinin [2 μM benzyladenine (BA)] was routinely added to protoplasts prior to examination, but was not required and not done in tobacco leaves. However, in assessment of any AHK interactions, predicted to be localized at the plasma membrane, examinations were made in both the presence and absence of cytokinin in order to avoid potential cellular compartmentalization of proteins that might physically limit possible interactions. All photographs were taken with a Qimaging Fast 1394 digital camera and are presented as composite images using Adobe Photoshop CS3 without altering the original integrity of the picture.
