!~ABS~! The plant hormone cytokinin is perceived by membrane-located sensor histidine kinases. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) possesses three cytokinin receptors: ARABIDOPSIS HISTIDINE KINASE2 (AHK2), AHK3, and CYTOKININ RESPONSE1/AHK4. The current model predicts perception of the cytokinin signal at the plasma membrane. However, cytokinin-binding studies with membrane fractions separated by two-phase partitioning showed that in the wild type, as well as in mutants retaining only single cytokinin receptors, the major part of specific cytokinin binding was associated with endomembranes. Leaf epidermal cells of tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) expressing receptor-green fluorescent protein fusion proteins and bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis showed strong fluorescence of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network for all three receptors. Furthermore, separation of the microsomal fraction of Arabidopsis plants expressing Myc-tagged AHK2 and AHK3 receptors by sucrose gradient centrifugation followed by immunoblotting displayed the Mg2+-dependent density shift typical of ER membrane proteins. Cytokinin-binding assays, fluorescent fusion proteins, and biochemical fractionation all showed that the large majority of cytokinin receptors are localized to the ER, suggesting a central role of this compartment in cytokinin signaling. A modified model for cytokinin signaling is proposed.
!~RES~! To gain insight into the cellular compartment harboring the cytokinin receptors, isolated membranes of 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were separated, using the two-phase partitioning method, into a PM fraction and an inner membrane (endomembrane) fraction. Microsomes of each fraction retain integral proteins and also proteins associated with these membranes (CITATION). The upper fraction (U3) was strongly enriched with a PM marker (H+-ATPase), while the lower fraction (L3) showed enrichment of the ER marker Binding Protein2 (BiP2; Fig. 1A). The portion of endomembranes was 15 to 20 times higher than that of PMs as measured by their protein content. An in vitro cytokinin-binding assay with microsomes showed [3H]trans-zeatin-specific binding (i.e. the difference between total and nonspecific binding) in both membrane fractions (Fig. 1, B–G). Quantitative analysis of this binding in wild-type plants revealed a high-affinity interaction with an equilibrium dissociation constant (KD) in the low nanomolar range (Fig. 1B). This is similar to the KD for trans-zeatin-receptor complexes of AHK3 and CRE1/AHK4 (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION) and the AHK2-CHASE-TM domain (CITATION) expressed in bacteria. The ligand specificity of binding of the isolated membranes (Fig. 1C) also corresponded well with the ligand specificity of cloned Arabidopsis cytokinin receptors (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). These results support the idea that the cytokinin binding of isolated membranes of Arabidopsis is due to these cytokinin receptors. In addition, tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves overexpressing a AHK3-GFP fusion gene showed a strong increase of cytokinin binding in their membrane fractions (Supplemental Fig. S1). In microsomes isolated from wild-type plants, the total specific cytokinin binding was approximately four times higher in the endomembranes than in the PM (Fig. 1D). Considering the higher portion of endomembrane proteins, this means that more than 98% of the cytokinin binding sites are located in endomembranes. [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate whether this distribution of binding activity is typical for individual cytokinin receptors of Arabidopsis, the experiment was repeated with all three double receptor mutants, each retaining only a single cytokinin receptor (CITATION). The cytokinin binding of microsomes from each of the double mutants was lower than that from the wild type (Fig. 1. D–G), which supports further a crucial role of the three known cytokinin receptors to mediate this binding activity. Mutants harboring solely the AHK3 receptor retained the highest binding activity (Fig. 1E) and showed a clear prevalence of cytokinin binding to endomembranes, similar to the wild type (Fig. 1, D and E). A similar pattern was also revealed in the ahk3 cre1 mutant expressing AHK2 as a single cytokinin receptor (Fig. 1F). In contrast, ahk2 ahk3 mutant plants expressing CRE1/AHK4 displayed a somewhat higher specific binding in the PM fraction than in the fraction enriched with endomembranes (Fig. 1G). However, because the vast majority of membrane proteins are located in endomembranes (see above), in this case, also more than 90% of the cytokinin-binding sites are located in endomembranes. Nevertheless, this result should be taken with caution because of the overall very low binding activity of microsomes isolated from this double mutant. Interestingly, the sum of cytokinin binding of membranes from all three different double receptor mutants corresponds roughly to the binding activity measured in the wild type (Fig. 1, D–G). Taken together, the distribution of cytokinin-binding activity in mutants retaining single receptors indicates that all three cytokinin receptors of Arabidopsis localize mostly to endomembranes. Two-phase partitioning had indicated a predominating location of cytokinin-binding sites in endomembranes but did not reveal which type of intracellular membranes harbors cytokinin receptors. To refine the analysis of their subcellular distribution, we fused all three cytokinin receptors with the GFP (CITATION). These fusion proteins were transiently expressed under the control of a 35S promoter in the leaf epidermal cells of tobacco and analyzed by laser-scanning confocal microscopy. The subcellular localization pattern of AHK3-GFP (Fig. 2, A and C) was similar to the pattern known for ER-localized proteins (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This was further corroborated by a strong perinuclear signal for AHK3-GFP, which is a hallmark of ER localization (Fig. 2, D and E). Overlay analysis of the AHK3-GFP signal with the FM4-64 dye staining the PM showed only a limited overlap of the signals, indicating that most of the AHK3-GFP fusion protein does not localize to the PM but to the ER (Fig. 2, A–C). [[FIGURE]] A GFP-CRE1/AHK4 fusion protein showed a similar subcellular distribution in tobacco leaf cells to AHK3-GFP. An ER-like network was decorated by the GFP-CRE1/AHK4 fusion protein (Fig. 2F), and a perinuclear signal was detected as well (Fig. 2, I and J). Staining the cells with the FM4-64 PM marker showed little overlap with the GFP-CRE1/AHK4 signal (Fig. 2, G and H), supporting its predominant localization in the ER membrane. In the case of AHK2, neither N- nor C-terminal fusion with GFP led to a detectable signal in planta. In contrast, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis (CITATION) for AHK2 resulted in a clear signal, and these data can be used to analyze the subcellular localization of the AHK2 receptor. The AHK2-Split-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) dimer decorated an ER-like intracellular network (Fig. 2K), and perinuclear localization was detected for the AHK2-Split-YFP dimer as well (Fig. 2, L and M). In summary, the subcellular localization of transiently expressed fluorescent fusion proteins supported a predominant localization to the ER for all three cytokinin receptors. Attempts to generate transgenic Arabidopsis lines stably expressing the receptor-GFP fusion genes under the control of the 35S promoter have not been successful. None of the transgenic lines that were obtained showed detectable GFP signal, indicating selection against high expression levels. This finding is in accordance with our inability to obtain transgenic lines constitutively expressing cytokinin receptor genes, most likely due to cellular toxicity of the gene products (data not shown). GFP-based localization experiments do not provide sufficient evidence for determining the true subcellular localization of a given protein, especially of endomembrane-localized proteins (CITATION). Other methods need to be applied to validate results obtained by fluorescent protein fusions; therefore, a subcellular localization of Myc-tagged cytokinin receptors following fractionation of cell membranes (microsome fraction) by Suc gradient centrifugation was conducted. The functionality of AHK2-Myc and AHK3-Myc fusion proteins was tested by transforming ahk2 ahk3 mutant plants, which show a distinct phenotype, including a small leaf rosette size, depending on the simultaneous mutation of both receptor genes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Transformed plants expressing chimeric PAHK3:AHK3-Myc or PAHK2:AHK2-Myc showed complementation of the ahk2 ahk3 mutant phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S2), demonstrating the functionality of both AHK-Myc fusion proteins. Two independent transgenic lines expressing the fusion genes were analyzed further. The expression of PCRE1:CRE1/AHK4-Myc cannot be verified by this complementation test. In addition, the level of expression of a PCRE1:CRE1/AHK4-Myc gene was too low to reliably detect the tagged receptor protein, which is in accordance with the low cytokinin-binding activity of microsomes from the ahk2 ahk3 mutant (Fig. 1G; data not shown). Therefore, PCRE1:CRE1/AHK4-Myc transgenic plants were not included in this study. First, membranes of 6- and 18-d-old PAHK3:AHK3-Myc plants and 6-d-old PAHK2:AHK2-Myc transgenic plants were isolated and fractionated using the two-phase partitioning method. Immunoblots showed the expected distribution of the PM-bound H+-ATPase and the ER marker BiP2 to the U3 and L3 fractions, respectively (Figs. 3A,4A, and 5A). Large majorities of both tagged receptors, AHK3-Myc and AHK2-Myc, were detected in the L3 fraction (Figs. 3A, 4A, and 5A), corroborating an endomembrane localization for these two cytokinin receptors. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to identify the intracellular membrane fraction(s) to which AHK3-Myc and AHK2-Myc localize more precisely, the microsomal fraction was further separated by Suc gradient centrifugation either in the presence or absence of Mg2+ ions. The rationale behind this approach is that binding of ribosomes to the ER is dependent on the presence of Mg2+ ions (CITATION). In the absence of Mg2+ ions (e.g. if chelators like EDTA are in the buffer), the release of ribosomes from the ER lowers the density of the ER membrane and thus leads to a shift within the Suc gradient. In contrast, other organelles are not significantly affected in their density by Mg2+ ions. The marker proteins belonging to different membrane types were detected by immunoblotting. To study the intracellular distribution of AHK3-Myc, 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings and shoots of 18-d-old plants were used as starting material (Figs. 3 and 4). The position of the membrane-bound fraction of the ER marker BiP2 was clearly shifted upon depletion of Mg2+ ions from the extraction buffer, whereas the pattern obtained for the markers of the PM and the vacuolar membrane were largely independent of the presence of Mg2+ ions (Figs. 3B and 4B). Chlorophyll absorbance, which was measured as a marker for the chloroplast thylakoid membranes, also did not show the characteristic Mg2+ shift of BiP2. The position of AHK3-Myc in the gradient was similar to that of BiP2 in showing a clear shift upon Mg2+ depletion from the buffer. The position in the gradient of latent UDPase, an enzyme marker for the Golgi apparatus, was also dependent on Mg2+, but its position and peak distribution in the fractions were less well correlated with the positions of AHK3-Myc and BiP2, especially visible in 18-d-old shoots (Fig. 4B). Cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COXII), a marker for mitochondria, and ADP-ribosylation factor1 (Arf1), a marker for the trans-Golgi network, were also tested in this material. The positions of these markers shifted only marginally to fractions of lower Suc concentrations in the Mg2+-free buffer (Fig. 4B). Taken together, the behavior of proteins isolated from 6-d-old seedlings and shoots of 18-d-old plants was qualitatively similar, indicating that the localization of AHK3-Myc to the ER is independent of the plant age. The localization study of AHK2-Myc yielded similar results. After fractionation in a Suc gradient in the presence or absence of Mg2+ ions, a diagnostic shift of the AHK2-Myc position was detected that resembled the one of the membrane fraction of BiP2. The markers for other membranes showed a much weaker shift in the absence of Mg2+ ions (Fig. 5B) and/or their positions in the gradient were not correlated with the position of AHK2-Myc.
!~MM~! The coding region of the cytokinin receptor AHK4/CRE1 (At2g01830.1) was amplified by PCR using a cDNA library from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) C24 as a template (CITATION) and cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR201 by BP recombination reaction (Invitrogen). The coding sequence of AHK3 (At1g27320.1) was amplified via reverse transcription-PCR on total RNA extracted from the primary leaves of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia using appropriate primers (Supplemental Table S1) and cloned into the entry vector pDONR222. AHK2 (At5g35750.1) was amplified with the stop codon from the genomic DNA of bacterial artificial chromosome clone MXH1 (Liu et al., 1995) using the appropriate primers (Supplemental Table S1) and cloned into pDONR221. To construct C-terminal fusions of AHK2 and AHK3 with GFP or 4× Myc tag, the stop codons were removed by site-directed mutagenesis using the Quick Change II site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) with the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. The correct identities of all entry clones and mutated clones were verified by sequencing. For transient GFP expression studies in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana), AHK3 and CRE1/AHK4 were shuttled into the destination vectors pB7FWG2 and pB7WGF2 (CITATION), which allow C- and N-terminal fusions with GFP, respectively, and thus were positioned under the control of the 35S promoter. The genomic fragment of AHK2 was also amplified without the stop codon (for primers, see Supplemental Table S1) and then cloned into the vectors pSPYNE-35S and pSPYCE-35S (CITATION), forming C-terminal fusions with the N- and C-terminal fragments of YFP, respectively, and used for BiFC analysis. Fusion constructs with a 4× Myc tag were created under the control of their respective promoters for AHK2 and AHK3. The MultiSite Gateway Three Fragment Vector Construction Kit was used for cloning and recombination reactions were performed according to the manufacturer’s manual (Invitrogen). Promoter sequences for AHK2 (2,124 bp) and AHK3 (2,063 bp) were amplified using the appropriate primers (Supplemental Table S1; CITATION) and recombined into the entry vector pDONR P4-P1R. The 4× Myc tag was amplified in a two-step PCR from the binary vector pGWB17 (CITATION) using the corresponding primers (Supplemental Table S1) and recombined into the entry vector pDONR P2R-P3. All three fragments (promoter, gene, and tag) were shuttled into the destination vector pB7m34GW (CITATION) to obtain PAHK2:AHK2-Myc and PAHK3:AHK3-Myc. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia was used as the wild type. The cytokinin receptor double mutants have been previously described (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were grown in the greenhouse on soil at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark). Plants were grown in vitro for the selection of primary transformants and segregation analyses. Seeds were surface sterilized and, after cold treatment for 2 to 3 d, exposed to white light (approximately 75 μE) in growth chambers. Seeds were grown at 23°C on horizontal plates containing half-strength MS medium (CITATION) including 0.9% agar (Merck). The medium was supplemented with 3% Suc, 100 mg L−1 myoinositol, 20 mg L−1 thiamine, 1 mg L−1 nicotinic acid, 1 mg L−1 pyridoxine, 1 mg L−1 biotin, and 10 mm MES, pH adjusted to 5.7 with KOH. Tobacco plants were cultivated in a greenhouse on soil at 25°C under long-day conditions as described above. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by the floral dip method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Transformed seedlings were selected on medium supplemented with 10 μg mL−1 phosphinotricin or on soil sprayed with Basta (0.1%; Bayer CropScience). For the transient expression of GFP and BiFC fusion proteins, A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 carrying GFP or BiFC constructs was used together with the agrobacterial strain p19 (Voinnet et al., 2003) to infiltrate leaves of 4- to 6-week-old tobacco plants, according to the protocol described by CITATION. Arabidopsis plants used for membrane fractionation were grown in liquid half-strength MS medium (CITATION) for 6 d or on soil for 18 d. Tissues were homogenized in buffer containing 50 mm Tris (pH 7.6 at 22°C), 20% glycerol, and 150 mm NaCl with either 5 mm MgCl2 and 2 mm EGTA (for subsequent Suc gradient separation in the presence of Mg2+) or with only 2 mm EDTA (for subsequent Suc gradient separation without Mg2+ and two-phase partitioning). Protease inhibitors (15 μm leupeptin, 77 nm aprotinin, 1 μm pepstatin A, and 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) were added from stock solutions just before homogenization. Six-day-old seedlings were homogenized with a 3-fold amount of buffer using a pestle and mortar. Eighteen-day-old shoots were homogenized three times at low speed in a blender (Waring Laboratory & Science) with a 9-fold amount of buffer. Homogenates were filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and two layers of Miracloth (Merck) and then centrifuged for 10 min at 10,000g at 4°C. Supernatants were centrifuged again for 30 min at 100,000g at 4°C. The resulting microsome pellets were resupended in 2.5 mL of phase buffer (250 mm Suc, 5 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8, and 2 mm dithiothreitol [DTT]) for aqueous polymer two-phase partitioning or in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.6 at 22°C), 10% Suc, and 1 mm DTT either with 2 mm EDTA or 5 mm MgCl2 for Suc gradient fractionation. The pellets were resuspended using a glass homogenizer. Microsome suspension was added to the polymer two-phase solution for aqueous two-phase partitioning. For binding assays, two-phase partitioning was performed in a 5.8% (w/w) Dextran 500000/polyethylene glycol 3350 mixture, and for protein gel-blot analysis, it was performed in 5.9% (6-d-old seedlings) or 6.1% (shoots of 18-d-old plants) mixture. The aqueous polymer two-phase solution (5.8%, w/w) included 2.9 g of 20% (w/w) Dextran 500000, 1.45 g of 40% (w/w) polyethylene glycol 3350, 1.875 mL of 1 m Suc in 20 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8, 250 μL of 0.7 m NaCl, and 2.5 mL of membrane suspension adjusted with water to 10 g. After mixing, the probes were centrifuged in a bucket rotor for 10 min at 1,000g at 4°C. The separation was performed three times using pure upper and lower phase solutions (without membranes) obtained in parallel by the same centrifugation step (Hodges and Mills, 1986). Then, the purified upper (PM-enriched) and lower (endomembrane-enriched) phases were 10-fold diluted by phase buffer and centrifuged for 30 min at 100,000g at 4°C. The resulting pellets were resuspended in 50 m MES-KOH, pH 7, 150 mm NaCl, 32 mm KCl, and 27 mm NH4Cl for binding assays or in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.6 at 22°C), 10% Suc, 1 mm DTT, and 2 mm EDTA for protein gel-blot analysis. The Suc gradient was obtained by layering 16 mL of 17% Suc solution onto 16 mL of 50% Suc solution in a 32-mL ultracentrifuge tube and subsequent horizontal incubation of the tube for 13 h at 4°C. Leupeptin (15 μm) was added to the gradient-forming solutions just before forming the gradient. Then, the membrane suspension was layered on the 20% to 50% (w/w) Suc gradient in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.6 at 22°C) and 1 mm DTT with either 2 mm EDTA or 5 mm MgCl2. Gradients were centrifuged in a bucket rotor for 16 h at 100,000g at 4°C. Two-milliliter fractions were collected from the bottom by peristaltic pump. The fractions were stored at −80°C before using. Anti-Myc tag monoclonal antibodies (mouse) were obtained from Millipore, and goat anti-mouse and anti-rabbit IgG peroxidase conjugates were obtained from Merck. The proteins were separated by 10% Tricine-SDS-PAGE as described (Schägger, 2006). Prior to Tricine-SDS-PAGE, the protein samples were mixed with SDS-PAGE loading buffer and incubated at 37°C for 1 h. The proteins were transferred afterward to Immobilon-P transfer membranes (Millipore). The antibodies were diluted 1:300 for the detection of Myc-tagged receptors. Secondary antibodies were diluted 1:10,000 for receptor detection and 1:30,000 for membrane marker detection. Membrane with transferred proteins was preincubated in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) with 5% skim milk for 1 h, and the incubation with primary antibodies was performed in PBS with 5% skim milk for 2 h, then the membrane was washed three times in PBS with 0.05% Tween 20. Incubation with secondary antibodies was performed for 1 h followed by washing three times in PBS with 0.05% Tween 20. The peroxidase reaction was performed using SuperSignalWest Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Thermo Fisher Scientific), and the product was detected by CL-XPosure Clear Blue X-Ray Film (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The membrane type was identified by the use of a set of polyclonal rabbit antibodies (Agrisera) against specific markers: ER luminal BiP2, PM marker H+-ATPase, tonoplast marker ε-subunit of tonoplast H+-ATPase, mitochondria marker COXII, and trans-Golgi network/Golgi apparatus marker Arf1. Antibodies were used in 1:2,000, 1:1,000, 1:2,000, 1:1,000, and 1:1,000 dilutions, respectively. Thylakoid membranes were identified by spectrophotometric analysis of the chlorophyll content (Arnon, 1949). The identification of Golgi membranes was based on the measurement of Triton X-100-stimulated latent UDPase activity (CITATION). Highly labeled (592 GBq mmol−1) trans[2-3H]zeatin was obtained from the Isotope Laboratory at the Institute of Experimental Botany in Prague. Radiochemical purity was greater than 99%. For one probe, 3.8 nm [3H]trans-zeatin was used. The addition of 750 μL of membrane suspension to a tube containing 2.5 μL of labeled trans-zeatin with and without a 500-fold excess of unlabeled trans-zeatin was used for the determination of nonspecific and total binding, respectively (CITATION). To study the ligand specificity of binding, various unlabeled cytokinins at different concentrations were added together with radiolabeled trans-zeatin. Incubation was carried out on ice for 20 min. Then, the mixture was centrifuged for 20 min at 16,000g at 4°C. The supernatant was thoroughly removed by a vacuum pump. A total of 200 μL of 96% ethanol was added to the pellet, and the extraction was carried out for at least 16 h. Extracted radioactivity was measured by a scintillation counter in an ACS-II scintillation cocktail (Amersham Bioscience). For the microscopic analyses of infiltrated tobacco plants, leaf discs were cut 4 to 5 d after infiltration. Confocal laser-scanning microscopy was performed using an inverted fluorescence microscope (Leica DMI 6000 CS) equipped with a Leica TCS SP5 laser scan unit (Leica Microsystems) and operated with the Leica Application Software. All confocal laser-scanning microscopy images were obtained using a HC PL APO 20X/0.70 IMM CORR water-immersion objective at constant imaging conditions (e.g. gain, offset, and exposure time). The GFP signal was acquired by excitation with the argon laser line at 488 nm and detection between 500 and 530 nm. YFP fluorescence was acquired by excitation at 514 nm and detection between 520 and 550 nm. The images were processed with ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). The staining of the PM in infiltrated tobacco leaf epidermal cells was carried out by using the dye FM4-64 (Invitrogen); for this, the dye solution (50 μm) was infiltrated into transformed tobacco leaves. The infiltrated leaves were immediately scanned for fluorescence. The 488-nm laser line was used for the excitation of FM4-64 fluorescence, and emission was detected between 625 and 665 nm (CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Increase in specific binding of [3H]trans-zeatin by microsomes isolated from tobacco leaves transformed with the P35S:AHK3-GFP construct. Supplemental Figure S2. Complementation of the small leaf rosette phenotype of ahk2 ahk3 mutants upon transformation with the PAHK3:AHK3-Myc or PAHK2:AHK2-Myc gene construct. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in this study.
