!~ABS~! In higher plant cells, microtubules (MTs) are nucleated and organized in a centrosome-independent manner. It is unclear whether augmin-dependent mechanisms underlie spindle MT organization in plant cells as they do in animal cells. When AUGMIN subunit3 (AUG3), which encodes a homolog of animal dim γ-tubulin 3/human augmin-like complex, subunit 3, was disrupted in Arabidopsis thaliana, gametogenesis frequently failed due to defects in cell division. Compared with the control microspores, which formed bipolar spindles at the cell periphery, the mutant cells often formed peripheral half spindles that only attached to condensed chromosomes or formed elongated spindles with unfocused interior poles. In addition, defective cells exhibited disorganized phragmoplast MT arrays, which caused aborted cytokinesis. The resulting pollen grains were either shrunken or contained two nuclei in an undivided cytoplasm. AUG3 was localized along MTs in the spindle and phragmoplast, and its signal was pronounced in anaphase spindle poles. An AUG3-green fluorescent protein fusion exhibited a dynamic distribution pattern, similar to that of the γ-tubulin complex protein2. When AUG3 was enriched from seedlings by affinity chromatography, AUG1 was detected by immunoblotting, suggesting an augmin-like complex was present in vivo. We conclude that augmin plays a critical role in MT organization during plant cell division.
!~RES~! When the amino acid sequences of human augmin subunits (CITATION) were compared with proteins encoded by the Arabidopsis genome, it was found that the 617–amino acid AUG3 protein shares noticeable sequence homology to the 478–amino acid C4orf15/HAUS3 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). AUG3 is relatively acidic with a pI of 5.55. This feature is shared by its human counterpart, which has an isoelectric point of 5.40. Putatively orthologous proteins were identified in rice and moss (Physcomitrella patens) with high sequence identity/similarity (see Supplemental Figure 1 and Supplemental Table 1 online). The limited sequence homology between AUG3 and HAUS3 or Dgt3 raised the question of whether it truly functioned as the counterparts in the animal augmin complexes. A T-DNA insertional mutation (aug3-1) in the 13th exon (Figure 1A) was detected in heterozygous plants that were isolated from a community-generated T-DNA pool (CITATION). When the progeny of a heterozygous +/aug3-1 plant was analyzed, no homozygous mutants were recovered, indicating that AUG3 is likely an essential gene. Among the progeny, 38% (n = 187) had the +/aug3-1 genotype, while the remaining 62% were +/+. When the siliques produced by the +/aug3-1 plant were examined, aborted embryos and unfertilized ovules were frequently observed together with mature seeds (Figure 1B). Compared with the siliques of a wild-type plant, which produced 94% mature seeds and 6% unfertilized ovules, those of +/aug3-1 had 61% mature seeds, 25% unfertilized ovules, and 14% aborted embryos (sample size = 10 siliques) (Figure 1C). Thus, we believed that the distorted genetic segregation exhibited by the +/aug3-1 plant was likely due to the combination of gamete sterility and embryo lethality. Based on results of reciprocal crosses between +/aug3-1 and wild-type plants, it was found that the fertility of both male and female was affected (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The transmission efficiency of the mutation through the male gamete was 60% and that through the female gamete was 37%. Thus, we speculated that AUG3 is an essential protein. [[FIGURE]] We first examined developing pollen grains to assess the function of AUG3. When the nucleus was stained with the DNA-specific dye 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), almost all pollen grains collected from mature anthers of the wild-type plant had two brightly stained sperm nuclei and one faint vegetative nucleus (n = 400; Figure 1D). Among the pollen grains produced by the +/aug3-1 plant, however, 72% were trinucleate (n = 404). In the remaining pollen grains, 11% contained two nuclei of one brightly stained generative nucleus and one faint vegetative nucleus. In addition, 1% pollen grains included only one nucleus and 15% were shrunken in which no discernible nucleus could be visualized by DAPI staining (Figures 1D and 1E). To test whether the phenotype was caused by meiotic defects, we continued to examine the pollen grains produced by +/aug3-1 qrt/qrt plants. The qrt/qrt pollen grains failed to separate so that tetrad analysis was made possible (CITATION). The +/aug3-1 qrt/qrt plant always produced four attached pollen grains, but shrunken pollen grains were often found to be attached to well enlarged ones (red arrows, Figure 1F). Such a phenotype was not observed in pollen produced by the control qrt/qrt plant. This result suggests that AUG3 is likely required for mitotic cell division as revealed by defects in pollen mitosis caused by the aug3-1 mutation. Because no homozygous mutant was obtained, it was not tested whether the mutation caused a partial or complete loss of AUG3 function. We also examined how aug3-1 affected female gametophyte development and embryogenesis in the ovules produced by the +/aug3-1 qrt/qrt mutant plants. A wild-type female gametophyte/embryo sac contained an egg cell, two synergids, and a central cell with a conspicuous nucleus (Figure 2A). Defective aug3-1 embryo sacs were found and had a single enlarged nucleus (Figure 2B). Following pollination, the control ovule produced a proembryo with distinct cell morphology, which was surrounded by cellularized endosperm (Figure 2C). In comparison, the +/aug3-1 mutant plant produced defective stalk-like embryo structures and did not show obvious cellularization (arrows, Figures 2D and 2E). In addition, a few nuclei were found to float near the defective embryo, indicating that mitotic divisions were blocked during endosperm development (arrowheads, Figure 2E). It was believed that the brownish aborted seeds were derived from ovules containing these defective embryos. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the phenotype exhibited by the +/aug3-1 plant was linked to the T-DNA insertion, +/aug3-1 mutant plants were transformed with a construct expressing an AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein driven by its native promoter (see Methods). Among >50 transformants bearing the +/aug3-1 genotype, two were randomly selected for testing the functionality of the fusion protein and rendered an identical conclusion. In one example, we analyzed genotypes of the progeny of +/aug3-1 transformed with the AUG3-4×c-myc transgene. They gave a ratio of 2.71:1 (n = 193) for aug3-1 positive (+/aug3-1) to negative (+/+) offspring. This result indicated that the distorted segregation ratio of 0.61:1 (38%:62%) was suppressed when AUG3-4xc-myc was expressed. We concluded that the above-described defects in gametogenesis and embryogenesis were most likely caused by the inactivation of AUG3. It also indicated that the AUG3-4×c-myc fusion was functional. The defects in male gametogenesis caused by the aug3-1 mutation were further analyzed by comparing MT organization during mitosis in the mutant and wild type control. When the control microspores underwent mitosis (pollen mitosis I), bipolar spindles were assembled toward the periphery of the cell (Figures 3A to 3C). The peripheral half spindle had its wide pole anchored at or near the plasma membrane and the interior half spindle had MTs converged at a single pole pointing to the center of the cell (Figure 3A). Disorganized spindle MTs were observed in mutant cells (Figures 3D to 3L). Abundant MTs connected condensed chromosomes to the cell cortex (Figures 3D and 3G). While the peripheral half spindles contained abundant MT bundles, few MTs were detected in the interior part of the spindle and connected to the chromosomes (arrow, Figure 3I). In these defective pollen grains exhibiting such a half-spindle phenotype, chromosomes were not aligned in the metaphase plate, which could be caused by an imbalanced number of MTs on two sides of the condensed chromosomes. Some developing pollen grains exhibited milder defects in spindle MT organization (Figures 3J to 3L). In the metaphase spindles, the interior half spindle did not have kinetochore fibers that converged to an obvious pole (arrow, Figure 3L). In addition, the spindle clearly crossed the center of the pollen grain and was elongated when compared with the control spindles (Figures 3A and 3J). Such defects were not observed in control pollen grains undergoing mitosis. Among developing pollen grains at metaphase produced by the heterozygous +/aug3-1 plant (n = 84), 39% exhibited the half-spindle phenotype, 14% had defective spindles like that shown in Figure 3J, and the remaining 47% bore normal spindles as seen in the control cells. [[FIGURE]] At late anaphase and telophase, the control spindles were still restricted to one side of the cell and had MT bundles formed in the midzone (bidirectional arrow, Figures 4A to 4C). In defective cells at similar stages, elongated spindles almost reached the full diameter of the pollen grains and showed rich long bundles in the midzone (bidirectional arrow, Figures 4D to 4F). During cytokinesis in the control cell, MTs reorganized into a curved phragmoplast array by which a curved cell plate would be brought about, as marked by a dark midline in antitubulin immunofluorescence (Figures 4G to 4I). Defective phragmoplasts in the aug3-1 mutant cells often had loosely packed and disorganized MTs, which appeared between two reforming nuclei (Figures 4J to 4L). Such defective phragmoplasts would result in failed cytokinesis. [[FIGURE]] Because the AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein was functional, we used anti-c-myc antibodies to detect the fusion protein in transgenic plants expressing the protein. When root meristematic cells were examined, conspicuous punctate signals were detected in spindles and phragmoplasts (Figure 5). No noticeable signal was detected in wild-type control cells using the identical anti-c-myc antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). AUG3-4×c-myc was prominent on the prophase nuclear envelope, decorating MTs in the prophase spindle by immunofluorescence (Figures 5A to 5C). In metaphase cells, the punctate anti-AUG3-4xc-myc signal distributed along MTs of kinetochore fiber (Figures 5D to 5F). At anaphase, the AUG3-4xc-myc fusion protein became particularly prominent toward two spindle poles and less signal was detected among midzone MTs between two sets of segregated chromosomes (Figures 5G to 5I). At telophase, when midzone MTs developed into a bipolar phragmoplast MT array as highlighted by a dark antitubulin line in the middle, AUG3-4xc-myc appeared along phragmoplast MTs (Figures 5J to 5L). In cells bearing a mature phragmoplast, punctate AUG3-4xc-myc signal appeared along MTs (Figures 5M to 5O). However, the AUG3-4xc-myc immunofluorescence had a wider dark zone encompassing the developing cell plate compared with that of antitubulin (arrowheads, Figure 5M). The localization pattern suggested a possible bias toward MT minus ends, as shown by anti-γ-tubulin immunofluorescence (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further reveal the dynamics of AUG3 in cell division, a functional AUG3-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was expressed under the control of its native promoter to resolve its activity in live cells continuously during mitosis. The GFP signal was readily detected in the mitotic spindle at metaphase in a root meristematic cell undergoing mitosis (see Supplemental Movie 1 online; Figure 6A). Conspicuous AUG3-GFP signal was detected at the spindle poles when the cell entered anaphase, especially at later stages of anaphase (arrows, Figures 6B and 6C). At late anaphase and telophase, the GFP signal became noticeable in the spindle midzone, although not as prominent as that at the spindle poles (Figure 6C). While the GFP signal diminished at the spindle poles when the cell progressed toward cytokinesis, it became more striking in the midzone (Figures 6D and 6E). The appearance of AUG3-GFP in the phragmoplast left behind a wide dark region in the center, indicating that AUG3 did not appear at or near the MT plus ends in the phragmoplast midzone (arrowheads, Figure 6E). Instead, AUG3-GFP might have decorated MT minus ends. Dual localization of AUG3-4xc-myc and γ-tubulin by immunofluorescence showed that they both decorated anaphase spindle poles and phragmoplast similarly (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] The spatial and temporal localization pattern of AUG3-GFP reminded us of that of a GFP fusion of the γ-tubulin complex subunit GCP2 (CITATION). Indeed, the GCP2-GFP fusion gave a very similar dynamic localization pattern as AUG3-GFP reported in dividing cells (see Supplemental Movie 2 online; Figures 6F to 6J). For example, GCP2-GFP also marked the anaphase spindle poles (arrows, Figure 6H). In addition, the GFP fluorescence left a wide gap in the middle of the phragmoplast, a pattern shown by AUG3-GFP as well (arrowheads, Figure 6J). The comparable localization patterns of AUG3-GFP and GCP2-GFP allowed us to conclude that AUG3 likely colocalized with the γ-tubulin complex in the mitotic spindle and phragmoplast. Because AUG3 and GCP2 exhibited similar localization patterns, we asked whether the localization of γ-tubulin would be altered in the aug3-1 mutant cells. Using the G9 antibody (CITATION), γ-tubulin was detected in the phragmoplast of a dividing microspore (Figures 7A to 7C). The localization of γ-tubulin differed from that of MTs by presenting a wide dark gap in the middle region (arrowheads, Figure 7A). In a developing pollen grain of the aug3-1 mutant bearing a defective phragmoplast MT array, however, the γ-tubulin signal was no longer concentrated along the MTs (Figures 7D to 7F). Instead, the signal became largely diffuse in the cytosol (Figure 7D). Thus, we concluded that AUG3 is critical for the accumulation of γ-tubulin during mitosis. This result is similar to the finding that the augmin complex plays a role in γ-tubulin localization during mitosis in animal cells (CITATION). Furthermore, we would like to suggest that the disorganized and defective spindle MT arrays exhibited by the aug3-1 mutant cells were probably the result of altered localization of γ-tubulin in dividing microspores. [[FIGURE]] Besides AUG3, AUG1 encodes a 299–amino acid protein that shares limited sequence identity to the 202–amino acid protein CCDC5/HAUS1 (see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental Table 3 online). AUG1 is an acidic protein with a calculated pI of 5.64. Again, this feature is shared by HAUS1, which has a pI of 5.41. It was suggested that the human CCDC5/HAUS1 protein did not have an obvious homolog in fly and worm (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The homology between AUG1 and HAUS1 prompted us to test whether the AUG1 protein was associated with AUG3 in vivo. To do so, the functional AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein was enriched from the aforementioned transgenic seedling by an immobilized anti-c-myc antibody (Figure 8). This protein fraction was subject to immunoblotting using anti-c-myc and anti-AUG1 antibodies separately. The AUG3-4×c-myc protein was detected at the position of apparent molecular mass of 78 kD (Figure 8). The anti-AUG1 antibody detected a band at 34 kD (Figure 8), which was consistent with the predicted molecular weight of AUG1. These bands were absent from the fraction derived from the extract of wild-type seedlings, suggesting that they were specific (Figure 8). Furthermore, when the anti-AUG1 antibodies were preabsorbed with the fusion protein used as the antigen, the 34-kD band was no longer detected (Figure 8). This result suggested that the anti-AUG1 antibodies specifically recognized the endogenous AUG1 protein. [[FIGURE]] If AUG1 and AUG3 were in the same complex, they would exhibit similar localization patterns. We tested AUG1 localization by expressing an AUG1-GFP fusion under the control of its native promoter in stable transgenic lines and imaged its localization over time in a mitotic cell (see Supplemental Movie 3 online). Similarly to what was observed for AUG3-GFP, AUG1-GFP exhibited conspicuous localization at anaphase spindle poles (arrows, Figure 9A). The signal gradually appeared in the midzone (arrows, Figure 9B). Again, its localization in the phragmoplast left a wide gap in the midzone, similar to that presented by the AUG3-GFP and GCP2-GFP fusion (arrowheads, Figure 9C). Thus, the finding that AUG1 and AUG3 have a similar localization pattern supports the notion that AUG1 and AUG3 interact in vivo and are most likely in an augmin-like complex. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana lines used in this study are control Columbia-0 and the SALK_099174 mutant line made available to us by the ABRC at Ohio State University. Full-length AUG3 and AUG1 cDNA clones were generated by the Arabidopsis research community (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Plant growth conditions and transformation procedures were as described previously (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion at the AUG3 locus was detected by PCR using the primers At5g1RP2, 5′-GCTGTCACGGTCATCTACTGCTCCTTGTTC-3′, and LBa1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′. The wild-type AUG3 allele was detected by At5g1RP2 and At5g1LP2, 5′-GGAACAAGTGAGAGACAATGGATTGAAGCC-3′. Back crosses with wild-type plants were performed to confirm that the observed phenotypes were linked to the T-DNA insertion. Methods used in phenotypic characterization of the defects brought about by the aug3-1 mutation were as described previously (CITATION). Pollen grains were collected from mature anthers of open flowers. To determine the terminal phenotype of the embryo sac, ovules were dissected from pistils 48 h after emasculation of the flowers. Defects in male gametogenesis were detected by DNA staining using DAPI and those in female gametogenesis and embryogenesis by differential interference contrast microscopy after clearing. A 5.9-kb genomic AUG3 fragment containing the promoter region and the coding sequence was amplified by PCR using the primers 48520-F, 5′-CACCTTTCGTTAAAATGTTCAATATTTTAACAAAAACAAAAATG-3′, and 48520-R, 5′-TGCGCCTGCGCCCGATGATGAGGCTTGGCGAGCACGAAC-3′, and Phusion DNA polymerase (New England Biolabs). Amplified DNA was cloned into the Gateway pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The resulting plasmid was recombined with the pGWB16 vector (CITATION) by an LR recombination reaction (Life Technologies). Consequently, the pGWB16-AUG3 plasmid was used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation into the heterozygous +/aug3-1 mutant. The pGWB16 plasmid contained the 4xc-myc tag-coding sequence to allow a target protein to be tagged at the C terminus. Therefore, transformants would express the AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein at a level similar to that of the native AUG3 protein. Segregation patterns of T-DNA insertions were determined by PCR-based genotyping as described above using progeny derived from an untransformed heterozygous mutant and two independent transformants. The aforementioned AUG3 genomic fragment was cloned into the destination vector pGWB4 (CITATION) by recombination to give rise to pGWB4-AUG3, which was used for transformation. A 2.4-kb fragment of AUG1 was amplified from a genomic DNA preparation by PCR using the primers 41350-F, 5′-CACCTTTTGAAATTT TTTGCTTCACATTTTATAC-3′, and 41350-R, 5′-TGCGCCTGCGCCCTCATCGTTTGTCTCAAGGGCTGATTG-3′. After being cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO, this fragment was then inserted into pGWB4 to yield the pGWB4-AUG1 plasmid, which was used for transformation. The coding region of AUG1 was amplified using the U21622 plasmid as template by the primers U21622F, 5′-ATATGGATCCCCATGGGTATGAGCGACGTC-3′, and U21622R, 5′-ATCGGAGCTCTCACTCATCGTTTGT-3′, and Pfx DNA polymerase (Life Technologies). The resulting fragment was cloned into the pGEX-KG vector at the NcoI and SacI sites after the fragment and vector were digested by these enzymes. The recombinant plasmids rendered the expression of GST-AUG1 fusion protein in bacteria host BL21 (DE3) (Life Technologies). The fusion protein was purified using immobilized glutathione (Thermo Scientific) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and used as the antigen for immunization of mice. Antibody production and purification were as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were extracted from control Arabidopsis plants and transformants expressing the AUG3-4×c-myc fusion. Briefly, 3-d-old etiolated seedlings were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to powder using a mortar and pestle. An extraction buffer of 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0, containing 150 mM NaCl and 1% Triton X-100 was added to the powder. The supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 15,000g and filtration through a 0.45-μm Millex HV filter (Millipore). The AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein was enriched by anti-c-myc antibody-conjugated magnetic beads according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Miltenyi Biotec). Proteins enriched for the c-myc–tagged proteins from Arabidopsis seedlings were separated on a 7.5% SDS-PAGE gel before being transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (Millipore) for immunoblotting. The AUG3-4×c-myc fusion was detected by the 9E10 anti-c-myc antibody (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank at University of Iowa) and native AUG1 by the antibodies described above. To confirm that the band detected by the anti-AUG1 antibodies was indeed the protein encoded by At2g41350, the antibodies were preabsorbed by the GST-AUG1 fusion protein prior to immunoblotting. Immunolocalization of tubulins in pollen grains was performed as described previously (CITATION). The AUG3-4×c-myc fusion protein was detected by rabbit anti-c-myc antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich) in root tip cells of transgenic lines using protocols described previously (CITATION). MTs were labeled by sheep antitubulin antibodies (Cytoskeleton). Images were acquired with a CFI Plan Fluor ×100 objective (numerical aperture of 1.3) under an Eclipse 600 epifluorescence microscope (Nikon) or a UPlan Apo ×100 (numerical aperture of 1.35; Olympus) under a DeltaVision microscope (Applied Precision). To observe AUG1/AUG3/GCP2-GFP signals, seeds were germinated on agar medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salt. Seedlings were observed under a Marianas spinning disk confocal microscope (Intelligent Imaging Innovations) using a Plan-Apo ×63 objective (Carl Zeiss). Samples expressing GFP fusions were illuminated at 488 nm by a diode-pumped solid-state laser, and the standard enhanced GFP setting was used for GFP capturing by an EMCCD camera driven by the Slidebook 5.0 software. Figures and movies presented here were assembled in the Metamorph (Molecular Devices) or SoftWoRx (Applied Precision) software packages. The At AUG1 and At AUG3 genes were identified by The Arabidopsis Information Resource as At2g41350 and At5g48520, and their cDNA clones used in this study had the GenBank accession numbers of BX832241 and U21622, respectively. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of the AUG3/HAUS3/Dgt3 Sequences. Supplemental Figure 2. Negative Control of Anti-c-myc Immunolocalization. Supplemental Figure 3. Dual Localizations of AUG3 and γ-Tubulin. Supplemental Figure 4. Alignment of the AUG1 and HAUS1 Sequences. Supplemental Table 1. Amino Acid Sequence Identity and Similarity among At AUG3, Os AUG3, Pp AUG3, HAUS3, and Dgt3. Supplemental Table 2. Transmission Efficiency of the aug3-1 Mutation. Supplemental Table 3. Amino Acid Sequence Identity and Similarity among At AUG1, Os AUG1, Pp AUG1, and HAUS1. Supplemental Movie 1. AUG3-GFP, Pseudocolored in Green, in a Dividing Root Cell. Supplemental Movie 2. GCP2-GFP, Pseudocolored in Green, in a Dividing Root Cell. Supplemental Movie 3. AUG1-GFP, Pseudocolored in Green, in a Dividing Root Cell.
