!~ABS~! In chloroplasts, thiol/disulfide‐redox‐regulated proteins have been linked to numerous metabolic pathways. However, the biochemical system for disulfide bond formation in chloroplasts remains undetermined. In the present study, we characterized an oxidoreductase, AtVKOR‐DsbA, encoded by the gene At4g35760 as a potential disulfide bond oxidant in Arabidopsis. The gene product contains two distinct domains: an integral membrane domain homologous to the catalytic subunit of mammalian vitamin K epoxide reductase (VKOR) and a soluble DsbA‐like domain. Transient expression of green fluorescent protein fusion in Arabidopsis protoplasts indicated that AtVKOR‐DsbA is located in the chloroplast. The first 45 amino acids from the N‐terminus were found to act as a transit peptide targeting the protein to the chloroplast. An immunoblot assay of chloroplast fractions revealed that AtVKOR‐DsbA was localized in the thylakoid. A motility complementation assay showed that the full‐length of AtVKOR‐DsbA, if lacking its transit peptide, could catalyze the formation of disulfide bonds. Among the 10 cysteine residues present in the mature protein, eight cysteines (four in the AtVKOR domain and four in the AtDsbA domain) were found to be essential for promoting disulfide bond formation. The topological arrangement of AtVKOR‐DsbA was assayed using alkaline phosphatase sandwich fusions. From these results, we developed a possible topology model of AtVKOR‐DsbA in chloroplasts. We propose that the integral membrane domain of AtVKOR‐DsbA contains four transmembrane helices, and that both termini and the cysteines involved in catalyzing the formation of disulfide bonds face the oxidative thylakoid lumen. These studies may help to resolve some of the issues surrounding the structure and function of AtVKOR‐DsbA in Arabidopsis chloroplasts.  Structured digital abstract    AtVKOR‐DsbA and D1 colocalize by cosedimentation in solution (View interaction)
!~RES~! The putative subcellular localization and TP of AtVKOR‐DsbA were predicted online with targetp and predsl software (Table 1). Use of the software showed that AtVKOR‐DsbA was most likely localized in the chloroplasts and that the first 45 amino acids from the N‐terminus were probably the TP. To obtain direct experimental evidence, we fused the presumed TP of AtVKOR‐DsbA inframe to the N‐terminus of GFP and transiently expressed the fusion protein in Arabidopsis protoplasts under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. The subcellular location of the fusion protein was visualized by confocal microscopy (Fig. 1). TP‐GFP showed co‐localization of the green GFP fluorescence with the red chlorophyll signal, clearly indicating localization in the chloroplast (Fig. 1A–D), whereas the GFP‐alone control was found in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1E–H). These results confirmed that the first 45 amino acids from the N‐terminal were capable of targeting AtVKOR‐DsbA to the chloroplast. This is in contrast with the findings of Furt et al. [CITATION], who suggested that the At4g35760 gene product was localized in the chloroplast by transient expression of the full‐length At4g35760 gene fused with GFP in tobacco mesophyll cells and that the TP was likely to be the first 70 amino acids, and not the first 45. The results obtained in the present study clearly show that the first 45 amino acids alone could act as a TP and target the protein to the chloroplast.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the suborganelle localization of AtVKOR‐DsbA within the chloroplast, the full‐length At4g35760 gene fused with a GFP‐tag at its C terminus was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and transformed to Arabidopsis. Intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts overexpressing GFP‐tagged AtVKOR‐DsbA tag were fractionated into stroma and thylakoid fractions. Both fractions were subjected to immunoblot analysis, and the purity of the fractions was assessed by monitoring the stromal rubisco activase and thylakoid D1 proteins (Fig. 2) [CITATION]. As shown in Fig. 2, the AtVKOR‐DsbA protein was exclusively detected in the thylakoid fraction using anti‐GFP. The results demonstrate that AtVKOR‐DsbA was localized in the thylakoids.  [[FIGURE]] To assess the role of AtVKOR‐DsbA in disulfide bond formation, we first performed functional complementation assays in Escherichia coli Dsb null strains. In prokaryotes, the formation of disulfide bonds in substrate proteins is catalyzed by the Dsb proteins, DsbA and DsbB [CITATION, CITATION]. The soluble periplasmic protein DsbA, which has a canonical CXXC motif in its active site, rapidly oxidizes cysteine residues in protein substrates [CITATION]. Then the integral membrane protein DsbB reoxidizes DsbA and shuttles electrons received from DsbA to the electron transport chain [CITATION]. When DsbA or DsbB, or both, are deleted, these E. coli strains become non‐motile as a result of their inability to form the disulfide bonds critical for proper folding of the flagellar motor protein FlgI [CITATION]. In Synechococcus sp., a VKOR homolog, SynDsbAB, which resembles a fused DsbB‐DsbA protein, was found to complement motility defects in Δdsb strains, so the protein was confirmed to be capable of catalyzing the formation of disulfide bonds [CITATION].  Similar to SynDsbAB, AtVKOR‐DsbA consists of two distinct domains: an N‐terminal membrane domain (AtVKOR) and a C‐terminal soluble Trx‐like domain (AtDsbA). The ΔdsbB, ΔdsbA and ΔdsbAB strains of E. coli were used as hosts for AtVKOR‐DsbA complementation assays on M63 minimal media. Wild‐type strains with the ability to form disulfide bonds in FlgI were motile after 72 h of incubation on M63 minimal plates, whereas Δdsb strains with empty vectors remained non‐motile. We first tested the ability of full‐length AtVKOR‐DsbA with TP in plasmid pWL1 to complement the ΔdsbA and ΔdsbB strains (Fig. 3A, B). However, neither Δdsb strain transformed with plasmid pWL1 regained motility. We assumed that the TP might have been cleaved, leading to native folding of AtVKOR‐DsbA in the targeted organelle. A plasmid (pWL2) containing AtVKOR‐DsbA without TP was then constructed and transformed to Δdsb strains. Consistent with our expectations, AtVKOR‐DsbA without TP was able to restore motility in ΔdsbB, ΔdsbA and ΔdsbAB strains (Fig. 3). Then a His‐tag, which was considered as not being likely to affect protein folding or weaken protein expression, was introduced to the N‐terminus of AtVKOR‐DsbA in pWL2, yielding pWL3 [CITATION]. As shown in Fig. 3, pWL3 was better able to complement motility defects in Δdsb strains than pWL2 was. The results indicate that AtVKOR‐DsbA without TP could complement the defect of disulfide bond formation in Dsb null strains.  [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested the ability of individual domains of AtVKOR‐DsbA to complement the ΔdsbA and ΔdsbB strains (Fig. 3A, B). Because a linker of the last transmembrane (TM) segment connected VKOR to the Trx‐like domain in Synechococcus sp., we separated the AtVKOR and AtDsbA domains before the last TM segment at position 204 [CITATION]. However, pWL4 with His‐tagged AtVKOR could not complement motility defects in ΔdsbB and pWL5 with His‐tagged AtDsbA could not complement defects in ΔdsbA. We also attempted to divide the two domains at a different site, position 218, and performed the complementation assay again, although the Δdsb strains remained non‐motile (data not shown). AtVKOR and AtDsbA alone were unable to complement motility defects in ΔdsbAB (Fig. 3C). When the two individual domains were transformed together into the ΔdsbAB strain, the motility defect remained uncomplemented (data not shown). One possible explanation for the fact that the separate protein domains failed to function in E. coli is that the position at which the two domains are cleaved may be important for protein activity. Another explanation is that separate domains may have weaker affinity for each other than the whole protein. Because no complement was gained by using two different dividing sites, it is quite possible that the fusion of the two domains does not require high affinity, possibly because of high local concentrations. Once cleaved, it would be difficult for the separate domains to interact with each other smoothly as a result of low affinity. These results suggest a high specificity: AtVKOR may oxidize fused AtDsbA, which then oxidizes FlgI further, although individual AtVKOR domains do not appear to be able to replace the function of DsbB. AtDsbA domains cannot act as substitutes for DsbA. From these results, we could conclude that AtVKOR‐DsbA may have the ability to catalyze disulfide bond formation in E. coli. As a homolog of SynDsbAB in Synechococcus sp., AtVKOR‐DsbA probably performs this function in chloroplasts as well. This should be confirmed by further experimental evidence.  Similar to DsbB, the bacterial VKOR homolog MtbVKOR (M. tuberculosis) contains four conserved cysteines: one pair of separated cysteines and another pair in a canonical CXXC motif. In E. coli, DsbA catalyzes disulfide bond formation by oxidizing the cysteine residues of protein substrates. Then MtbVKOR accepts electrons from DsbA via one of the separated cysteines and transfers the electrons to the electron transport chain through the cysteines in the CXXC motif. However, in addition to the AtVKOR domain, the Arabidopsis VKOR homolog AtVKOR‐DsbA contains another DsbA‐like domain with four conserved cysteines [CITATION]. Unlike DsbA, which has only one pair of cysteines in a CXXC motif, there are another two separated cysteines in the AtDsbA domain. AtVKOR‐DsbA also contains two nonconserved cysteines. To assess the roles of these 10 cysteines in disulfide bond formation, site‐directed mutagenesis was used to confirm motility complementation and β‐galactosidase activity. A ΔdsbAB strain (MER600) containing a fusion of β‐galactosidase to a large periplasmic domain of the cytoplasmic membrane protein MalF (a membrane protein involved in maltose transport) in the genome was used as the host cell in the β‐galactosidase activity assay [CITATION]. If complementation can promote the formation of disulfide bonds in the exported portion of β‐galactosidase, it would render the enzyme inactive, as indicated by a white color. Otherwise, β‐galactosidase would remain enzymatically active, as indicated by a blue color [CITATION]. As shown in Fig. 4(A–C), when we mutated AtVKOR‐DsbA to change each of the eight conserved cysteines to alanines or mutated each pair of conserved cysteines located in the same domain, motility complementation was abolished. Altering the two nonconserved cysteines had little effect on motility. In the β‐galactosidase activity assay, the mutants of conserved cysteines showed high β‐galactosidase activity, suggesting a lack of disulfide bond formation. The two mutants of nonconserved cysteines displayed very low activities, indicating the formation of disulfide bonds (Fig. 4D–F). These results indicate that all of the conserved cysteines in AtVKOR‐DsbA are essential for disulfide bond formation in E. coli and that the two nonconserved cysteines are not involved.  [[FIGURE]] To understand the structure/function relationships relative to the activity of AtVKOR‐DsbA in the formation of disulfide bonds, it is necessary to understand its membrane topology (i.e. the specific number of TM segments and their orientation in the membrane, including the locations of essential cysteines). The membrane topology of AtVKOR‐DsbA without TP was first predicted using nine different topology prediction software programs with the default parameters. Three of the nine software programs predicted four TM helices in AtVKOR‐DsbA, and the others predicted five (Table 2). All of the software except sosui predicted that the C‐terminus of AtVKOR‐DsbA would be located in the periplasm. It has been reported that the reliability of topology predictions is greatly increased if different topology prediction methods give the same prediction [CITATION, CITATION]. Therefore, it is likely that AtVKOR‐DsbA has four TM helices and a C‐terminus located in the periplasm. Figure 5 shows the membrane topology prediction and the probability profile of AtVKOR‐DsbA as determined by the most commonly used software, tmhmm. It predicts that there are four TM helices in AtVKOR‐DsbA: 80–102, 122–141, 146–168 and 180–202. However, tmhmm gives the candidate TM helix (36–56) predicted by the six other software programs listed in Table 2 only a 50% chance of truly existing.  [[FIGURE]] To obtain direct experimental evidence regarding the topology of AtVKOR‐DsbA, we used the AP fusion approach in E. coli. This approach is based on the fact that AP is enzymatically active when expressed in the periplasm but inactive when expressed in the cytoplasm [CITATION, CITATION]. As a result, by determining the AP activity of fusions to different hydrophilic domains of AtVKOR‐DsbA, it is possible to distinguish cytoplasmic from periplasmic domains and, in this way, to determine membrane topology. It is likely that a thylakoid protein, which has regions that are lumenal in the chloroplast, will act as periplasmic in E. coli. Reciprocally, stromal domains are predicted to be exposed in the cytoplasm [CITATION]. We first constructed five AP fusions without TP at positions 79, 121, 145, 176 and 265 in an expression plasmid, pDHB7744. To preserve the likely topology determinants of the protein, the fusion joints were placed at or near the predicted C‐terminal end of each hydrophilic region [CITATION]. However, except for the distinctly higher AP activity of fusion 265, the other four fusions did not differ significantly (data not shown). Taking this into account, we only could reason that the C‐terminal of AtVKOR‐DsbA might be located in oxidative surroundings. Although assays of series of such fusions have provided accurate information on the topological structure of some proteins, this approach is still potentially limited [CITATION-CITATION]. Because the fusions are generated in such a way that AP replaces a C‐terminal portion of the membrane protein, which is required for proper assembly, the fusion approach may give an unfaithful model [CITATION, CITATION]. To overcome the limitations described above, we constructed ‘sandwich’ fusions in which AP was inserted into the intact AtVKOR‐DsbA protein, rather than replacing the C‐terminus of the membrane protein AtVKOR‐DsbA with AP [CITATION].  The AP activity of each sandwich fusion was determined on 5‐bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indolyl phosphate (XP) plates (Fig. 6). Sandwich fusions S145 and S265 showed higher activity than fusions S121 and S176. This is consistent with the prediction of periplasmic localization of AP in S145 and S265 and cytoplasmic localization of AP in S121 and S176. The fusion S6 showed activity approximating that of S145, indicating that the N‐terminus is probably located in oxidative surroundings and that the first candidate TM helix shown in Fig. 5 is not likely to exist. However, both S62 and S79 showed very low activity, which is in contrast with the prediction of periplasmic localization of AP in S62 and S79. Given the first lower striped domain shown in Fig. 5, we presumed that the sequence of amino acids before the TM helix (80–102) may have been partially inserted into the membrane and may have affected the activity of AP fused to this segment. The question of whether the fusion positions of S62 and S79 are too close to the membrane to affect AP activity or whether they become degraded merits further study.  [[FIGURE]] We present a model of AtVKOR‐DsbA topology in Fig. 7 based on most of the fusion results and on the ability of the protein to function in E. coli. However, two of the results are inconsistent with the proposed model. In this model, there are four TM helices and a partially inserted segment ahead in AtVKOR‐DsbA. Both the N‐terminus and C‐terminus of AtVKOR‐DsbA are located in the thylakoid lumen. In this way, the protein is quite different from its mammalian counterpart, VKOR, which has three TM helices, with its N‐terminus in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum and its C‐terminus in the cytoplasm [CITATION]. The four pairs of conserved cysteines are positioned in different regions. Two pairs in canonical CXXC motif Cys195‐Cys198 (C151/C154) and Cys293‐Cys296 (C249/C252) (Fig. 7) are located in the third TM helix and third hydrophilic lumenal domain, respectively. The other two pairs, Cys109‐Cys116 (C65/C72) and Cys316‐Cys331 (C272/C287) (Fig. 7), are located in the first and third hydrophilic lumenal domains.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was grown in soil in a greenhouse under a 16 : 8 h light/dark cycle (100 μE·m−2·s−1) at 22 °C. Bacterial strains and their relevant genotypes are described in Tables 1 and S1. Cultures were generally grown in LB medium or M63 minimal medium supplemented with glucose and appropriate antibiotics [CITATION].  The putative target location and TP of AtVKOR‐DsbA was predicted online using targetp and predsl software. Online software, including tmhmm, hmm‐tm, tmpred, topcons, sosui, philius, polyphobius, hmmtop and thumup, was used to predict the membrane topology of AtVKOR‐DsbA.  The At4g35760 cDNA was amplified by PCR from an A. thaliana cDNA library using gene‐specific primers to construct plasmid pWL1. According to bioinformatic analysis, the gene product contained a TP of the first 45 amino acids. Plasmids pWL2 and pWL3 containing the AtVKOR‐DsbA coding region, but not TP, were constructed using pWL1 as the template (pWL3 was His‐tagged at the N‐terminus and pWL2 was not His‐tagged). Plasmids pWL4 and pWL5 contained regions encoding AtVKOR (amino acids 45–214) and AtDsbA (amino acids 205–376), respectively. All PCR products were cloned into plasmid pTrc99a.  For topological analysis, we constructed AtVKOR‐DsbA‐phoA fusions in which the phoA gene for AP, missing its signal sequence, was fused to certain positions in AtVKOR‐DsbA [CITATION]. The plasmid pDHB7744, an expression vector, contained phoA fused to the malF gene, which encoded a membrane protein involved in maltose transport. Different segments of AtVKOR‐DsbA without TP were cloned to this vector in place of the malF gene. To make this possible, the vector was digested with BspEI and NcoI to remove the malF sequence. The AtVKOR‐DsbA sequence was amplified by PCR with appropriate restriction sites encoded in the primers. The reading frame was adjusted by adding a glycine codon to the 3′ primers of each of the seven fusion oligonucleotides between the last codon of each segment of AtVKOR‐DsbA and the beginning codon of the phoA gene. The PCR products were cloned into pDHB7744, producing phoA fusions. Then all fusions were used to construct sandwich fusions in accordance with the method described by Ehrmann et al. [CITATION]. In each fusion, the stop codon in the phoA gene was deleted, and the remaining sequences of AtVKOR‐DsbA after the fusion positions were fused to the C‐terminus of phoA, producing sandwich fusions. Then these sandwich fusions were transformed to E. coli strain FA113 [CITATION]. The primers for these constructions are listed in Table S2. All constructs described in the present study were confirmed by sequencing.  Strains of FA113 transformed with different sandwich fusion plasmids were streaked on LB medium containing 0.4 mg·mL−1 XP and 1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside (IPTG) and incubated at 37 °C for 2 days. A blue color indicates AP activity.  The ORF of AtVKOR‐DsbA TP was amplified from a cDNA clone (Table S2). The PCR product was cloned into pJIT163‐GFP vector, producing a fusion protein under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The constructed vector was then introduced into E. coli. Protoplast preparation took place in accordance with the method of Sheen [CITATION]. For the transformation, 100 μL of protoplast suspension was carefully mixed with 10 μg of column‐purified plasmid DNA and 110 μL of poly(ethylene glycol)/Ca2+ solution [4 g of poly(ethylene glycol) 4000, 3 mL of H2O, 2.5 mL of 0.8 m mannitol and 1 mL of 1 m CaCl2] and incubated for 20 min at 23 °C. Then the mixture was diluted with 0.44 mL of W5 (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl and 2 mm MES/KOH, pH 5.7) solution and spun at 100 g for 1 min to remove poly(ethylene glycol). The protoplasts were resuspended in 100 μL of W5 solution and added to 1 mL of W5 (six‐well plates). The protoplasts were then incubated for 12–16 h in the dark at 23 °C and fluorescence images were captured with confocal laser scanning microscopy, as described previously [CITATION].  Monoclonal anti‐GFP was purchased from Tiangen (Beijing, China). Polyclonal anti‐D1 and anti‐rubisco activase were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA, USA). Antibodies for marker proteins of suborganellar compartments were selected according to their specificity for proteins from Arabidopsis.  Intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated and purified from the leaves of 4–5‐week‐old plants overexpressing AtVKOR‐DsbA‐GFP (oeAtVKOR‐DsbA‐GFP), as described previously [CITATION]. Plants overexpressing AtVKOR‐DsbA‐GFP (oeAtVKOR‐DsbA‐GFP) were generated by introducing the AtVKOR‐DsbA coding region minus its stop codon into the plant expression vector pBI121‐gfp (Table S2). This produced a fusion protein upstream and in frame to GFP ORF under the control of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus. We then transformed the flowers of wild‐type plants with the AtVKOR‐DsbA‐GFP overexpression construct, as described previously [CITATION]. Intact chloroplasts were ruptured by mixing with 10 volumes of lysis buffer (20 mm Hepes/KOH, pH 7.5, and 10 mm EDTA) and incubated on ice for 30 min. To separate thylakoid and stroma phases, ruptured chloroplasts were centrifuged (42 000 g for 30 min at 4 °C). Stroma and thylakoid fractions were retrieved from the supernatant and the pellet, respectively [CITATION].  There are 10 cysteines in the AtVKOR‐DsbA coding region, at positions 46, 109, 116, 193, 195, 230, 293, 296, 316 and 331. To investigate the function of each cysteine in the formation of disulfide bonds, single and double mutants were produced using a QuickChange™ mutagenesis kit obtained from Stratagene (La Jolla, CA, USA). All mutations and corresponding primers are listed in Tables S1 and S2.  M63 minimal media was used for the motility confirmation [CITATION]. E. coli cells transformed with different plasmids were stabbed on M63 medium. The strains were incubated at 30 °C for 3 days.  E. coli cells transformed with different plasmids were streaked on M63 minimal media plate with 20 μg·mL−1 5‐bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indolyl β‐d‐galactoside and 1 mm IPTG and incubated at 37 °C for 2 days [CITATION]. A blue color indicates β‐galactosidase activity. 
