!~ABS~! Nucleotides are synthesized from de novo and salvage pathways. To characterize the uridine salvage pathway, two genes, UKL1 and UKL2, that tentatively encode uridine kinase (UK) and uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPRT) bifunctional enzymes were studied in Arabidopsis thaliana. T-DNA insertions in UKL1 and UKL2 reduced transcript expression and increased plant tolerance to toxic analogs 5-fluorouridine and 5-fluorouracil. Enzyme activity assays using purified recombinant proteins indicated that UKL1 and UKL2 have UK but not UPRT activity. Subcellular localization using a C-terminal enhanced yellow fluorescent protein fusion indicated that UKL1 and UKL2 localize to plastids. The ukl2 mutant shows reduced transient leaf starch during the day. External application of orotate rescued this phenotype in ukl2, indicating pyrimidine pools are limiting for starch synthesis in ukl2. Intermediates for lignin synthesis were upregulated, and there was increased lignin and reduced cellulose content in the ukl2 mutant. Levels of ATP, ADP, ADP-glucose, UTP, UDP, and UDP-glucose were altered in a light-dependent manner. Seed composition of the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants included lower oil and higher protein compared with the wild type. Unlike single gene mutants, the ukl1 ukl2 double mutant has severe developmental defects and reduced biomass accumulation, indicating these enzymes catalyze redundant reactions. These findings point to crucial roles played by uridine salvage for photoassimilate allocation and partitioning.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, five homologous genes contain both a UPRT domain and an N-terminal UK domain and are herein referred to as UK-like1 (UKL1), UKL2, UKL3, UKL4, and UKL5. Unlike UKL3, UKL4, and UKL5, UKL1 and UKL2 have transit peptides at the N terminus. Individual knockout lines for UKL1 and UKL2 were identified by RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Three individual T-DNA lines (SALK_108468, SALK_026938, and SALK_147532) were identified for UKL1 (see Supplemental Figure 1A online, top panel). Transcript expression is completely abolished in the SALK_108468 line, and transcript levels are unaffected in the other two lines (see Supplemental Figure 1B online, left). Two individual T-DNA insertion lines (SALK_058257 and CS821451) contain inserts within the UKL2 gene (see Supplemental Figure1A online, bottom panel). The T-DNA insertion in the CS821451 line does not affect UKL2 expression, whereas in the SALK_058257 line, UKL2 expression is undetectable (see Supplemental Figure 1B online, right). Therefore, the SALK_108468 and SALK_058257 lines were renamed ukl1 and ukl2, respectively. These results are in agreement with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Pyrimidine salvage pathways offer multiple potential targets to incorporate cytotoxic analogs, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and 5-fluorouridine (5-FD), into cellular nucleotide pools. 5-FU and 5-FD are converted to 5-fluoro-uridine monophosphate by UPRT and UK, respectively. 5-Fluoro-uridine monophosphate is further converted to 5-fluoro-uridine triphosphate (5-FUTP) by a two-step route. In humans, cytotoxicity of 5-FU and 5-FD is varied: (1) 5-FUTP can be incorporated into RNA instead of UTP; (2) 5-FU is activated by the formation of 5-FdUMP, an inhibitor of thymidylate synthase that is involved in the synthesis of DNA; (3) 5-FU and 5-FD can be incorporated into DNA; and (4) 5-FUTP can be conjugated to sugars and incorporated into membranes, thus altering membrane functions. However, the cytotoxic mechanisms of 5-FU and 5-FD in plants are less studied, and it remains unclear if one or more of these mechanisms is the mode of action. To determine if sensitivity to 5-FU and 5-FD is affected in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants, seeds were germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 5-FU or 5-FD at specified concentrations. After 5 d of growth, chlorophyll content was measured (Figure 1). The ukl1 mutant showed resistance to 10 μM 5-FD; when the concentration was increased to 20 μM, ukl1 no longer displayed any significant difference in sensitivity compared with the wild type. In contrast, the ukl2 mutant showed higher tolerance to 5-FD up to 80 μM. Compared with 5-FD, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants showed a much higher range of tolerance to 5-FU. Even in the presence of 400 μM 5-FU, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants showed differences in chlorophyll accumulation from the wild type. Overall, the ukl2 mutant showed a higher degree of tolerance to 5-FU and 5-FD than the ukl1 mutant. Since the 5-FU and 5-FD toxic effects are caused by the remaining total UK and UPRT activity, respectively, in the ukl1 or ukl2 mutant, tolerance to 5-FU or 5-FD indicates less UK or UPRT activity in the gene knockout lines. The observation that ukl2 is more tolerant to 5-FU and 5-FD than the ukl1 mutant suggests that UKL2 has higher activity than UKL1 in vivo. To achieve a similar suppression of seedling greening using 5-FU, higher concentrations were needed (compared with 5-FD) for both the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants, which suggests that 5-FD is the preferred substrate for the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins. [[FIGURE]] The above-mentioned 5-FU and 5-FD feeding experiments provide only indirect evidence that the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins posses both UK and UPRT activity. Since there are differences in the uptake and subsequent metabolism of uridine and uracil, direct confirmation of UK and UPRT activity was necessary. Therefore, the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online), and the purified proteins assayed for UK, UPRT, uridine-ribohydrolase (URH), and UMP kinase activity in vitro. The experiments demonstrated that recombinant UKL1 and UKL2 proteins have UK activity, with a Vmax of 14.8 and 243.9 μmol·h−1·mg−1 and a Km for uridine of 0.34 and 1.18 mM for UKL1 and UKL2, respectively (see Supplemental Figures 2C and 2D online). UPRT, URH, and UMP kinase activities were undetectable with both enzymes. To confirm reduced activity in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants, UK and UPRT activity was quantified from 4-week-old aerial leaves. ukl1 and ukl2 mutants showed 20.3 and 31.5% lower UK activity, respectively, compared with wild-type plants (Figure 2A). There was no significant difference in UPRT activity, which supports the recombinant protein results that the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins have UK but not UPRT activity. The uridine and uracil content in 1-week-old seedlings also was measured. The uridine content in the ukl2 mutant was 32% higher than the wild type, and the ukl1 mutant showed a small but insignificant increase in uridine content (Figure 2B). Uracil was undetectable in the wild-type plants and in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants. The lack of UPRT activity for UKL1 and UKL2 raises the question: Why do the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants show increased tolerance toward 5-FU compared with the wild type? One possible answer is that nucleoside phosphorylase reversibly converts 5-FU and Rib into 5-FD, although this activity has never been reported in plants. Another possible answer is that uridine, uracil, or other nucleosides or nucleobases accumulate in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants, thus diluting the specific activity of the toxic intermediates. [[FIGURE]] To observe if leaf starch biosynthesis is affected by the ukl1 or ukl2 mutation, whole plants were harvested before a light cycle and then again late in the light cycle. At the beginning of a light cycle, we observed little leaf starch and no differences among the wild type, ukl1, and ukl2 plants, which indicates that leaf starch degradation during the dark period is not affected (Figure 3A). However, late in the light cycle, the ukl2 mutant had accumulated 30% less leaf starch (Figure 3A) than the wild type on a fresh weight basis. The ukl1 mutant also accumulated less leaf starch compared with wild-type plants, but the reduction was statistically insignificant (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] To observe if the UKL1 or UKL2 gene mutations affect starch levels in seeds, developing seeds were harvested at 7, 10, and 13 d after fertilization (DAF) and their starch content quantified. At 7 DAF, seeds from ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants accumulated 15 and 30% less starch, respectively, than the wild-type plants (Figure 3B). Starch content sharply decreased thereafter, and starch content reached its lowest level at 13 DAF, at which point no differences were observed between wild-type and mutant plants (Figure 3B). These results indicate that seed starch accumulation is reduced in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants but that starch degradation is largely unaffected. Orotic acid (OA) and uridine are substrates for de novo and salvage pathways of uridine nucleotide synthesis, respectively. Externally supplied OA leads to a specific increase in uridine nucleotide levels and a stimulation of Suc degradation and starch synthesis in discs from growing potato tubers (CITATION). To investigate if exogenously applied uridine or OA affects leaf starch accumulation in planta, wild-type and ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants were sprayed at 9 am daily with 1 mM uridine or 1 mM OA for a period of 1 month. Leaves from the plants were subsequently harvested in late afternoon and starch quantified. Application of uridine did not significantly affect leaf starch content in the wild-type plants or in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants. Application of OA, on the other hand, did increase leaf starch content by 94% in the ukl2 mutant plants compared with a water-treated ukl2 control but had no affect on the leaf starch content in wild-type and ukl1 mutant plants (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] To better understand why starch content is reduced in the ukl2 mutant and its relationship with nucleotide metabolism, metabolites were comparatively profiled. Metabolic profiling of the wild type and the ukl2 mutant identified 283 compounds, 42 of which are unknown (Table 1; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Ten amino acids were detected. Compared with the wild type, the ukl2 mutant had higher levels of l-Asp (twofold higher), l-Glu (40% higher), l-Phe (43% higher), and Gly (4% higher). N-acetyl Glu content was about half in the ukl2 mutant (Table 1). Partial List of the Metabolites Identified from Wild-Type and ukl2 Mutant Plants Of the 53 organic acids detected, intermediates of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were the most substantially different in the ukl2 mutant. Malate and fumarate levels in the ukl2 mutant were significantly higher, 140 and 35%, respectively, compared with the wild type. Citrate was 23% higher in the ukl2 mutant than in the wild type, although this elevated level was not statistically significant. Levels of succinate were the same in the wild type as in the ukl2 mutant. Interestingly, maleic acid was elevated 1.3-fold in the ukl2 mutant. Maleic acid can be converted into fumarate by maleate cis-trans-isomerase and converted into malate by hydration catalyzed by malate hydrolase. Two TCA cycle intermediates, oxaloacetate and α-ketoglutarate, can be used for Asp and Glu biosynthesis, respectively, and pool levels of these two amino acids also were elevated in the ukl2 mutant (Table 1). The similar levels of succinate in the ukl2 mutant and the wild type may suggest that only a partial TCA cycle is operating during the light period. Benzoic acid, a product of phenol serial oxidation through benzaldehyde, was 1.2-fold higher in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type (Table 1); accordingly, phenol also was elevated by 2.8-fold in the ukl2 mutant (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online, row 224). Approximately 30 sugars and sugar alcohols were detected. There were no differences in levels of two major transportable forms of sugars, Suc and trehalose, between the wild type and the ukl2 mutant. However, Glc, Fru, and Man were 83, 52, and 56% higher, respectively, in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type. The ukl2 mutant, compared with the wild type, also had elevated levels of psicose, a C-3 epimer of d-fructose (1.2-fold higher); melezitose, a nonreducing trisaccharide sugar, (1.3-fold higher); and galactinol (1.4-fold higher) (Table 1). The enhanced concentration of monosaccharides in the ukl2 mutant supports the observation of reduced leaf and seed starch due to reduced biosynthesis (Table 1; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Trans-sinapinic acid and coumarine are used for lignin and lignan biosynthesis in planta (CITATION). Trans-sinapinic acid and coumarine, two derivatives of l-Phe, were 49 and 200% higher, respectively, in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type, which is in accordance with the enhanced pool size of l-Phe in the ukl2 mutant (Table 1). Phe concentration has been demonstrated to profoundly affect flux through the phenylpropanoid pathway (CITATION); Phe feeding to Pinus taeda suspension cells increased p-coumaryl and coniferyl alcohol synthesis and Phe ammonia-lyase, 4-coumarate-CoA ligase, caffeoyl-CoA O-methyltransferase, and cinnamoyl-CoA reductase transcript levels (CITATION). 3,4-Dihydroxybutanoic acid, erythronic acid, and threnoic acid, which are the products of lignin oxidation (CITATION), were 86, 95, and 112% higher, respectively, in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type. Dehydroascorbic acid, a reducing form of ascorbic acid, was elevated more than threefold in the ukl2 mutant. Dehydroascorbic acid can be converted into ascorbic acid and hydrogen peroxide by peroxidase (CITATION). The rising concentration of dehydroascorbic suggests that hydrogen peroxide production is also elevated in the ukl2 mutant. Hydrogen peroxide is required for monolignol oxidation and dehydrogenative polymerization (CITATION). The collective data suggest that lignin and lignan biosynthesis or polymerization is enhanced in ukl2 mutant. To test this, lignin and cellulose staining were performed. The staining results indicated that lignin content was higher and cellulose content was lower in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type. Lignin and cellulose content in the ukl1 mutant was not different from the wild type (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] Glu and Asp, two precursors for de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis, were 40 and 216% higher, respectively, in the ukl2 mutant compared with the wild type (Table 1). Enhanced levels of these metabolites in the ukl2 mutant raised the possibility that de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis was affected in ukl2 mutant. To test this possibility, RT-PCR was conducted to observe the transcript levels of the genes involved in this pathway. The results indicate that three genes were upregulated during the day period in both mutants compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). These are a carbamoylphosphate synthase, which catalyzes the first step for de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis, an Asp transcarbamoylase, which catalyzes the first committed step of de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis, and a 1,5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) synthase, which converts ribose-5-phosphate into PRPP for de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. Since RT-PCR indicated that de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway is affected in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutants during the light period (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), nucleotide levels were quantified by HPLC to further study this observation. In dark-adapted leaves, ATP content in the ukl2 mutant plant was 27 to 43% lower than in the wild type and ukl1 mutant plants (Figure 6A). This difference dissipated within 2 h after illumination, when ATP was mostly consumed, but reappeared 6 to 10 h after illumination (Figure 6A, top left panel). For ADP, both the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants contained less ADP than the wild type from 2 to 6 h after illumination, and this difference was mitigated by 10 h of light cycle as well as dark adaptation (Figure 6A, top middle panel). ADP-glucose content in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants was 21 and 40% lower, respectively, at 6 h after light cycle compared with the wild type; there was no difference at other time points (Figure 6A, top right panel). UTP showed a much different accumulation trend compared with ATP. UTP levels were low in dark-adapted leaves and increased only slightly for the first 2 h after illumination, then increased rapidly between 2 and 6 h of illumination. During the first 2 h of illumination, there was no difference in UTP content among wild-type, ukl1, and ukl2 mutant plants. After 6 to 10 h of light cycle, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants had significantly lower UTP content (34 to 65%) than wild-type plants (Figure 6A, bottom left panel). In dark-adapted leaves, UDP content was higher in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants compared with wild-type plants; 2 h after illumination, no significant difference in UDP content was observed between wild-type and the ukl mutant plants. At 6 and 10 h after illumination, the ukl2 mutant plant had lower UDP levels than both the ukl1 mutant and wild-type plants (Figure 6A, bottom middle panel). UDP-glucose content was 53 and 28% higher in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant than wild-type plants at 2 h after illumination and 42% lower in the ukl2 mutant than the wild type at 6 h after illumination. No significant differences were observed between wild-type and ukl1 mutant plants at any time for UDP-glucose (Figure 6A, bottom right panel). AMP and UMP content could not be accurately quantified due to their coelution with unknown compounds. The ratios of ATP to ADP and UTP to UDP also were calculated (Figures 6B and 6C). Before illumination, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants showed a lower ratio of ATP to ADP compared with the wild type; this difference disappeared during the light period (Figure 6B). By contrast, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants displayed a lower ratio of UTP to UDP 2 h after illumination (Figure 6C). [[FIGURE]] Siliques from plants at 5 DAF were harvested 8 h after illumination for nucleotide quantification. The results indicate that the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants have significantly lower UTP, UDP, UDP-glucose, and ADP-glucose content compared with the wild type (Figure 6D). This agrees with the low seed starch phenotype for the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants. External application of orotate to the ukl2 mutant plants largely rescued the low leaf starch phenotype (Figure 4). To understand if the changes in leaf starch content accompany a nucleotide level change, the aerial leaves from 4-week-old plants were harvested for nucleotide measurement after 3 weeks of OA application. OA application restored nucleotide levels in ukl2 mutant plants (Figure 6E). The lack of any visible growth defects in the ukl1 or ukl2 mutant plants could have two explanations: (1) uridine salvage has a minor role in planta or (2) the UKL1 and UKL2 genes are redundant. To test the second possibility, ukl1 ukl2 double mutant plants were produced and analyzed. When germinated on MS media for 6 d, the ukl1 and ukl2 single mutant plants developed green cotyledons, similar to the wild type. In contrast, the double mutant plants grew much more slowly than both the wild-type and the single mutant plants. Additionally, the cotyledon was pale green (Figure 7, top panel). About 30% of the double mutant plants died at this seedling stage. After being transferred to soil, the ukl1 ukl2 double mutant plants initiated true leaf growth, although at a slower rate compared with the wild type and regardless of whether they were grown under continuous light or long-day conditions (Figure 7, two middle panels). The ukl1 ukl2 double mutant plants showed variable severity in growth retardation and senesced at different developmental stages; in most plants, the apical meristem and the young leaf began to senesce first, followed by the older leaf. This observation agrees with the gene expression data showing that UKL1 and UKL2 are highly expressed in the shoot apex inflorescence (http://jsp.weigelworld.org/expviz.jsp). No ukl1 ukl2 double mutant plants reached reproductive maturity (Figure 7, bottom panel). These observations imply that uridine salvage plays an essential role for meristem maintenance, young leaf growth, and phase transition from vegetative growth to reproduction. Quantitation of biomass from plants grown under long-day conditions showed no difference between wild-type plants and the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants; however, the ukl1 ukl2 double mutant plants accumulated only ~7% of the biomass of wild-type plants (Figure 7B). Thus, we conclude that the lack of visible growth defects in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants is due to gene redundancy. [[FIGURE]] UKL1 and UKL2 are actively expressed during seed development, although with different trends. The UKL1 transcript is highly expressed between developmental stages 3 and 7, while the UKL2 transcript shows only a gradual increase at these developmental stages (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This expression pattern suggests that uridine salvage plays an important role during seed filling. To explore this possibility, physical and composition traits of the seed were measured in the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants (Table 2). No significant differences were observed with respect to total silique and total seed mass per plant, but individual seed mass from the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants was 7 and 9% greater, respectively, than wild-type seed. The lipid content of the seeds from the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants was 13.5 and 11.5% lower, respectively, compared with the wild type. Seed protein content was 5 and 7% higher in the ukl1 and ukl2 seeds, respectively. No significant differences were recorded in seed starch, Suc, Glc, and Fru content between wild-type and mutant seeds, except that seeds from the ukl1 mutant plant had 18.7 and 74.8% higher starch and Suc content, respectively, than the wild type (Table 2). The seed compositions of the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants showed small but statistically significant changes in lipid and protein compared with seeds from wild-type plants, likely due to the functional redundancy of UKL1 and UKL2 in developing seed. Seed Trait and Composition Analysis of the Wild Type and ukl1 and ukl2 Mutants We reasoned that the double mutants of ukl1 and ukl2 would show much more significant seed composition changes; however, since the double mutant senesces before bolting, we were unable to test this hypothesis. Undoubtedly, seed composition is affected by reduced photoassimilate supply from the leaf, resulting in lower starch during development. Reduced starch during early seed development would likely contribute to the reduced oil phenotype. Additionally, the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants contained lower nucleotide pools, which may contribute to the reduced oil content since de novo fatty acid synthesis requires ATP for carboxylation of acetyl-CoA, the first step in this pathway. Because only one T-DNA knockout line was identified for UKL1 and UKL2 through the currently available T-DNA line collections (www.Arabidopsis.org), it was necessary to correlate genotype with phenotype by complementation. Transgenic lines were constructed by expressing the coding sequence of UKL1 and UKL2 cDNA with an enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) fusion at their C termini in the homozygous mutant background. Because there are no visible growth defects for the ukl1 and ukl2 mutant plants, we used the low seed starch phenotype of ukl1 and ukl2 to confirm their complementation. Siliques from plants at 7 DAF of two individual T1 transgenic lines as well as the wild type and ukl1 and ukl2 homozygous mutants were harvested, and then their starch content quantified. The results demonstrate that expression of a wild-type copy of either UKL1 or UKL2 can rescue the low seed starch phenotype (Figure 8B), indicating that the UKL1 or UKL2 mutation is responsible for this phenotype. To further confirm the expression of UKL1 and UKL2 in the transgenic lines, RT-PCR was conducted. The results confirmed the overexpression of UKL1 and UKL2 in the two individual transgenic lines under their respective mutant background (Figure 8C). [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localizations of UKL1 and UKL2 remain controversial as subcellular prediction algorithms give different results. Loctree, MultiLoc, and TargetP predict that the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins localize to plastids. Subloc and WoLFPSORT predict that the UKL1 and UKL2 proteins localize to the nucleus. A previous green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion study of UKL1 conducted by CITATION indicated that UKL1 was cytoplasmic. However, the authors did not indicate which binary vector was used, failed to show GFP localization for the empty vector control, and did not clarify if the construct could functionally complement the phenotype in a stable manner. Therefore, it was necessary to reevaluate this result. To observe the protein subcellular localization of UKL1 and UKL2 proteins, the T1 transgenic lines were first screened for the EYFP signal by epifluorescence using a stereomicroscope equipped with an EYFP filter. T2 seeds from EYFP positive lines were germinated on MS plates, and leaves were harvested to prepare protoplasts for fluorescence observation. The results demonstrated that UKL1 and UKL2 localize to plastids based upon colocalization with chlorophyll autofluorescence (Figure 8A).
!~MM~! T-DNA insertion lines were ordered from the ABRC. Seeds were sown in a 1:1 mixture of water-saturated vermiculite and peat moss–enriched soil and grown in a growth chambers either under long-day conditions (14-h-light/10-h-dark cycle [light period = 8:00 am to 10:00 pm], 23°C day/20°C night, 50% humidity, and light intensity of 200 μmol m−2 s−1) or under continuous white light (20 μmol m−2 s−1, 25°C, 45% humidity). Seeds from wild-type and homozygous mutant plants were germinated on half-strength MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of 5-FU and 5-FD (Sigma-Aldrich) for 5 d. Treated plants were photographed. Total chlorophyll content from leaf tissues collected from 5-FU– and 5-FD–treated seedlings was measured by the method described by CITATION. Uridine and OA (Sigma-Aldrich) were dissolved in water at 1 mM. The plants were sprayed daily after germination; the control plants were sprayed with water only at same schedule. Whole leaves from individual plants were harvested after 30 d of growth in growth chambers, measured for fresh weight, immersed in liquid nitrogen, and then placed at 80°C for storage. Samples were prepared within 1 week of storage. To prepare the samples for starch analyses, frozen leaves were homogenized in a mortar and pestle in the presence of liquid nitrogen; 2 mL of 80% ethanol was added into the mortar, and the leaves were ground again. Homogenates were transferred to glass screw-cap tubes and incubated at 100°C for 15 min and 80°C for an additional 40 min, with periodic mixing. Samples were then centrifuged at 2000g for 5 min, and the supernatants were transferred to a fresh tube. Pellets were back-extracted twice with 2 mL of 80% (v/v) ethanol, and supernatants were pooled into one tube. Starch content was measured in the washed pellets. Supernatants were lyophilized for metabolite analysis. The starch fractions were analyzed using the EnzyChrom assay kit (BioAssay Systems). For metabolite analysis, samples were analyzed as described by CITATION with minor modifications. Samples were derivatized by methoximation by adding methoxyamine hydrochloride (Fluka) in pyridine (20 mg/mL) at a ratio of 1:2 (μL of methoxyamine hydrochloride:mg fresh weight), followed by heating at 30°C for 90 min. Samples were then silylated by adding 80 μL of N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (Acros) + 1% trimethylchlorosilane (Aldrich) to 60 μL of the methoximated samples, then incubated at 37°C for 30 min. Derivatized metabolite mixtures were analyzed using a Hewlett Packard 6890 gas chromatograph, 5973 mass selective detector, and 7683 series injector (Agilent Technologies). Samples (2 μL) were injected with a split ratio of 25:1 and resolved on a 30 m × 0.25 mm × 0.25 μm SPB 50 column (Supelco). Injection temperature was 230°C, the interface was set to 250°C, and the ion source was adjusted to 200°C. Helium flow was 1 mL min−1. After a 5-min solvent delay at 80°C, the oven temperature was increased at a rate of 5°C min−1 to 310°C and then held at 310°C for 10 min. Mass spectra were recorded from a mass-to-charge ratio of 50 to 600 at 2.69 scans/s. Following chromatographic separation and data acquisition, raw data files were exported as AIA format and were deconvoluted and searched against the NIST Mass Spectral Database and Golm metabolomics library (http://csbdb.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/csbdb/gmd/msri/gmd_msri.html) by AMDIS software (CITATION). The search generated a list of ion retention time values. The ion intensity values were extracted using MET-IDEA software (CITATION) and are provided in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. Protein samples were prepared by following the procedure described by CITATION and analyzed by a Pierce 660-nm protein assay reagent (Thermo Fischer Scientific). Fatty acids were derivatized using acidified methanol and analyzed by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (CITATION). The aerial leaves from individual plants were harvested before bolting and their fresh weight determined. Nucleotides were extracted by following the method described by CITATION and analyzed by HPLC as described previously (CITATION) using an EC 250/4.6 nucleosil 100-10 SB column (Macherey-Nagel) configured to a Waters 2695 separations module and 996 photodiode array detector (Waters). Detection wavelength was set at 254 nm with an automatic spectral scan from 200 to 300 nm. Data acquisition and analyses were performed by Empower 2 software (Waters). Chemical standards were analyzed under the same conditions to develop a calibration curve for quantification. Potassium phosphate was purchased from Calbiochem. For uridine and uracil isolation, seeds were germinated on MS plates for 7 d under continuous white light. The uridine and uracil isolation and quantification was following the method described by CITATION. To construct the ukl1 ukl2 double mutant, ukl1 was crossed with ukl2. F1 seeds were germinated and self-pollinated. Resultant F2 seeds were grown on soil. Individual plants were genotyped by PCR to identify double mutants. The base parts of inflorescence stems from 5-week-old plants were fixed and embedded according to CITATION. The 1.5-μm-thick sections of stems were stained with 0.01% Fluorescent Brightener 28 (Sigma-Aldrich) and observed with a UV fluorescence microscope to detect cellulose (CITATION). Lignin was visualized by staining fresh sections of 60-d-old plants with phloroglucinol-HCl (Acros) (CITATION). The activities of UK, UPRT, and UMP kinase were assayed by following the procedure described by CITATION. URH activity was assayed as described by CITATION. Total leaf protein was prepared as described by CITATION for enzyme activity assay. UKL1 and UKL2 cDNAs were PCR amplified. The BamHI and NotI restriction enzyme sites were added to forward and reverse primers, respectively. All primer sequences are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. The PCR products were digested by BamHI and NotI and then inserted into the entry vector PE6C such that an EYFP fluorescence tag was in frame with UKL1 or UKL2 at the C terminus (CITATION). The cassette was then moved into the binary vector pSITE-0B using Gateway LR clonase (CITATION). The constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis thaliana using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method. The T1 seeds were germinated on MS plates for 3 d and then screened for EYFP expression under Leica MZFLIII stereomicroscope with an EYFP filter. The expressed T1 transgenic lines were transferred into soil until grown to maturity. Siliques from 7 DAF were harvested for starch content quantification to determine complementation. T2 seeds from transgenic lines were germinated on MS plates; leaves were harvest to prepare protoplast using the method described by CITATION. Fluorescence imaging was taken by Olympus BX 61 microscope. DNA for PCR genotyping was prepared by phenol extraction followed by isopropanol precipitation. RNA extraction, first-strand biosynthesis, and PCR reaction were conducted as described (CITATION). Band signal intensity was quantified by Image Quant TL 1D version 7.0 (GE Healthcare) and normalized to UBQ internal standard. Three biological replicates were performed for quantification. UKL1 and UKL2 cDNA were amplified by Pfu polymerase, and PCR fragments were subcloned into the pET200 vector (Invitrogen). All primer sequences are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. Sequencing results indicated that 5 bp (AGTAG) at the sequence encoding the UKL1 C terminus were deleted during topoisomerase-mediated recombination. To induce protein expression, the constructs were transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 DE3 cells, and protein expression was induced by addition of 1 mM isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside. Recombinant proteins were purified by Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen). Where differences are described in the text as significant, this means that P < 0.05 in a t test was performed using the two-tailed equal variance algorithm within Microsoft Excel 2003. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers UKL1 (At5g40870), UKL2 (At3g27190), UKL3 (At1g55810), UKL4 (At4g26510), UKL5 (At3g27440), carbamoylphosphate synthase (At1g29900), Asp transcarbamoylase (At1g75330), and PRPP synthase (At1g10700). T-DNA lines corresponding to UKL1 were as follows: SALK_108468 (ukl1), SALK_026938, and SALK_147532; T-DNA lines corresponding to UKL2 were SALK_058257 (ukl2) and CS821451. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. ukl1 and ukl2 Mutant Identification. Supplemental Figure 2. Recombinant UKL1 and UKL2 Protein Kinetic Assay. Supplemental Figure 3. Transcriptional Expression of Genes in the de Novo Pyrimidine Biosynthesis Pathway Is Altered in the ukl1 and ukl2 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 4. UKL1 and UKL2 Are Differentially Expressed during Seed Development. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. Metabolic Profiling of the Wild Type and the ukl2 Mutant.
