!~ABS~! NADPH‐dependent dual‐flavin enzymes provide electrons in many redox reactions, although the mechanism responsible for regulating their electron flux remains unclear. We recently proposed a four‐state kinetic model that links the electron flux through a dual‐flavin enzyme to its rates of interflavin electron transfer and FMN domain conformational motion [Stuehr DJ et al. (2009)[CITATION] FEBS J276, 3959–3974]. In the present study, we ran computer simulations of the kinetic model to determine whether it could fit the experimentally‐determined, pre‐steady‐state and steady‐state traces of electron flux through the neuronal and endothelial NO synthase flavoproteins (reductase domains of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and endothelial nitric oxide synthase, respectively) to cytochrome c. We found that the kinetic model accurately fitted the experimental data. The simulations gave estimates for the ensemble rates of interflavin electron transfer and FMN domain conformational motion in the reductase domains of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and endothelial nitric oxide synthase, provided the minimum rate boundary values, and predicted the concentrations of the four enzyme species that cycle during catalysis. The findings of the present study suggest that the rates of interflavin electron transfer and FMN domain conformational motion are counterbalanced such that both processes may limit electron flux through the enzymes. Such counterbalancing would allow a robust electron flux at the same time as keeping the rates of interflavin electron transfer and FMN domain conformational motion set at relatively slow levels. 
!~RES~! We ran computer simulations of the kinetic model using the computer software gepasi, version 3.30 (for details, see Doc. S1) under the simplest condition, which is to assume that the KA setpoint stays constant during the catalytic redox cycle of the flavoprotein, and is therefore not influenced by the changes in the FMN redox state (i.e. the value of KAsq is equivalent to KAhq, k1 = k3, and k−1 = k−3) (Fig. 2). Figure 3A shows how electron flux through a dual‐flavin enzyme (equivalent to the cytochrome c reductase activity) would vary over a range of KA settings, which we created by varying the rates of conformational change within the range 0.5–9.5 s−1, and over the indicated range of interflavin electron transfer rates (k2). The simulations show that maximal electron flux through the enzyme to cytochrome c is achieved at KA settings near 1, particularly when k2 is relatively fast. This is expected because, at KA = 1, the association and dissociation rates of the FMN–FNR complex are balanced. The simulations also show that the maximally‐achievable electron flux is always less than the rate of conformational change that represents the opening of the fully‐reduced protein (k−3).  [[FIGURE]] A second plot of the simulated data shows these relationships from a different perspective (Fig. 3B). Again, it is apparent that the electron flux through the enzyme to cytochrome c never achieves the conformational opening rate k−3 at any KA setting (indicated by the 1.0 value on the y‐axis). The discrepancy is smallest when the KA setting is low (i.e. where the dual‐flavin reductase predominantly favours a closed or FMN‐shielded conformation) and becomes progressively greater as the KA setting increases (i.e. as the percentage of the reductase favouring an open or FMN‐deshielded conformation increases). This is because, as the KA setting increases, the association rate of the FMNsq (k1) with the FNR domain becomes slower and plays an increasingly larger role in limiting the electron flux through the enzyme. Also indicated in Fig. 3B are the KAhq positions that have been reported for the fully‐reduced eNOSr and nNOSr enzymes [CITATION]. The eNOSr has a low KAhq setting and thus exists predominantly in an FMN‐shielded conformation. Thus, its rate of FMNhq dissociation (k−3) may not be too different from the maximal electron flux that eNOSr could achieve (depending on the speed of k2). By contrast, nNOSr has a KAhq setting close to 1, and thus its maximum electron flux should only be 50% or less than the rate of its FMNhq dissociation (k−3), according to the kinetic model.  Before describing the simulations that we ran for nNOSr and eNOSr in the present study, it is useful to review the experimental results of Ilagan et al. [CITATION] that utilized pre‐steady‐state and steady‐state measures of electron flux to cytochrome c, and, from these measures, estimated the KAhq positions of the fully‐reduced eNOSr and nNOSr. Figure 4 contains the kinetic traces adapted from Ilagan et al. [CITATION] that follow the cytochrome c reduction versus time in reactions where excess cytochrome c was mixed with fully‐reduced nNOSr or eNOSr in a stopped flow spectrophotometer at 10 °C. The traces cover a time frame that includes the first catalytic turnover completed by each enzyme (transfer of an electron from the four‐electron reduced (hydroquinone) FAD (FADhq)/FMNhq form of the reductase to one molar equivalent of cytochrome c, as indicated by the the dashed box in Fig. 4), and also includes the subsequent period where the reactions shift into multiple turnover and achieve a steady‐state. The experimental traces show that both enzymes quickly reduced some cytochrome c within the mixing dead‐time of the instrument. This initial reaction is assumed to have been carried out by the fraction of each NOSr enzyme that is in the open or FMN‐deshielded conformation; essentially, the reaction that involves species a as indicated by the k4 step in the kinetic model (Fig. 2). The extent of cytochrome c reduction that occurs in this phase (moles) relative to the total moles of NOSr enzyme that are present in the reaction is indicated by the brackets on the y‐axis in Fig. 4. This was used by Ilagan et al. [CITATION] to calculate the proportion of each NOSr that was in the FMN‐deshielded versus FMN‐shielded conformation at the time of mixing, and thus to determine the KAhq setting of either fully‐reduced NOSr enzyme [CITATION]. After the fast reaction that occurs in the mixing dead‐time is finished, the absorbance trace for either enzyme reaction deflects and then continues to increase in a near‐linear manner during the rest of the single turnover phase (designated as period p in Fig. 4). The absorbance then continues to increase almost unchanged as each enzyme goes beyond the first turnover equivalent of cytochrome c and enters the multiple turnover, steady‐state phase of the reaction. This behaviour implies that whatever factors limit the electron flux to cytochrome c during period p in the first turnover continue to do so during the steady‐state. Reasoning that electron flux to cytochrome c during period p must reflect the conformational opening rate k−3 of the fully‐reduced, FMN‐shielded NOSr, Ilagan et al. [CITATION] concluded that electron flux through NOSr was dependent on this conformational opening step during the steady‐state reaction.  [[FIGURE]] With the above concepts in mind, we ran computer simulations of the kinetic model using the experimentally‐determined KAhq setpoints for nNOSr and eNOSr [CITATION], aiming to reproduce the published experimental traces of electron flux to cytochrome c (Fig. 4) and, in so doing, to obtain rate estimates for conformational change and for interflavin electron transfer from fits of the experimental data.  Figure 5A shows the absorbance trace generated from a simulated reaction of nNOSr with cytochrome c, using a KAhq setting of 1 and assuming a relatively fast interflavin electron transfer rate (k2) of 200 s−1, which is at least four‐fold faster than the reported estimates of interflavin electron transfer rates [CITATION-CITATION]. The use of a fast k2 setting assures that the electron flux will be primarily limited by the rate of conformational motion in this particular simulation. We then set the conformational kinetic values to equal the 8 s−1 cytochrome c reduction rate that was observed by Ilagan et al. [CITATION] during phase p in the nNOSr experimental data set in Fig. 4. All conformational rates are assumed to be the same in this case: k1 = k−1 = k3 = k−3 = 8 s−1. This simulation generated a reaction trace that qualitatively mimics the experimental data with respect to an initial fast cytochrome c reduction (similar to what occurs during the mixing dead‐time) in Fig. 4, followed by a slower and linear increase in A550 that represents the cytochrome c reduction taking place during the remainder of the first turnover and into the steady‐state phase. However, this simulation does not match the magnitude of electron flux through nNOSr that was observed in the experimental data during phase p or in the steady‐state. Specifically, in the simulation, the electron flux to cytochrome c during these time frames was 3.85 s−1, which is only 48% of the 8 s−1 value that was experimentally‐observed for nNOSr at 10 °C. This mismatch is consistent with the simulation results shown in Fig. 3A,B, which indicated the electron flux through nNOSr cannot go beyond 50% of its k−3 rate of conformational opening of the FMN hydroquinone, which was set at 8 s−1 in this simulation.  [[FIGURE]] We next attempted a better fit by increasing the rates of conformational motion in nNOSr at the same time as keeping the KAhq and the k2 settings unchanged. Figure 5B shows that using a faster rate of conformational motion (k1 = k−1 = k3 = k−3 = 17.5 s−1) can more accurately simulate the observed electron flux of 8 s−1 through nNOSr. However, there is still a discrepancy in the simulated trace of Fig. 5B with respect to it taking a longer time to complete the first turnover (62 ms) compared to the experimental trace (37 ms) reported by Ilagan et al. [CITATION] (Fig. 4). The simulated trace also shows a sharp break instead of a more rounded transition between the fast and slow phases of the reaction. We next repeated the simulation using a series of slower interflavin electron transfer rates (k2) and by selecting corresponding faster rates of conformational change that would still maintain an electron flux through nNOSr at 8 s−1. Figure 5C–E shows the traces that we obtained at k2 settings of 30, 25 and 20 s−1, respectively. In general, these traces created at slower k2 settings better match the experimental data. The very best match between the simulated and experimental traces was achieved using a k2 of 25 s−1 and a corresponding rate of conformational change of 45 s−1 (Fig. 5D). This provided a close match regarding the rounded transition between the two phases of cytochrome c reduction, and also accurately matched the time required to reduce one equivalent of cytochrome c (time for first catalytic turnover of 37 ms).  In the above simulations, we found that to maintain a steady electron flux through nNOSr as we slowed down the rate of interflavin electron transfer (k2), we had to invoke corresponding increases in the rate of conformational motion. Figure 6 shows the results obtained from many simulations, which provide a range of combinations of interflavin electron transfer rates and conformational change rates that fit the experimentally‐determined electron flux through nNOSr (8 s−1 at 10 °C). At the highest interflavin electron transfer rate (k2), a horizontal tangent to the graphed line provides the lower boundary rate of conformational change that would be needed to maintain the observed electron flux, which, in the case of nNOSr, is approximately 17 s−1. Similarly, a vertical tangent to the graphed line indicates the lower boundary value for the interflavin electron transfer rate (k2) of approximately 20 s−1 because, below this value, the corresponding rate of conformational motion that would be needed to maintain the observed electron flux becomes prohibitively fast or even unattainable.  [[FIGURE]] Traces in Fig. 7 were derived from the same simulations that we ran for Fig. 5B–E but, in this case, show how the distributions of the four enzyme species (Fig. 2) change as a function of reaction time under each setting. In the reaction that we simulated using a fast interflavin electron transfer (k2 = 200 s−1) and a correspondingly slow rate of conformational change (17.5 s−1) (Fig. 7A), the steady‐state enzyme distribution is reached very quickly (within 30 ms) and is characterized by an almost equivalent build up of only two species of nNOSr, namely the deshielded FMNsq form (species b) and the shielded FMNhq form (species d). Together, these two species account for approximately 90% of the enzyme distribution in the steady‐state under this condition. The build up of these two species makes sense because the further transition of either species depends on the relatively slow rate of conformational change. A somewhat different pattern emerges for reactions that were simulated using slower k2 values and correspondingly faster rates of conformational change (Fig. 7B–D). Under these circumstances, it takes longer to reach the steady‐state, with final enzyme distribution requiring times even beyond the time required for the first turnover (marked by the vertical dashed line). The deshielded FMNsq species (species b) remains predominant in steady‐state, accounting for 50% of the total enzyme distribution. However, build up of the shielded FMNhq species (species d) becomes compromised, and there is a corresponding increase in build up of the shielded FMNsq species (species c), such that species c overtakes species d when the k2 value falls below 30 s−1. In general, this distribution change is expected to occur as electron flux through nNOSr becomes more and more limited by its interflavin electron transfer rate (k2). How the distribution of the four enzyme species changes as a function of k2 and the conformational rate (both values were balanced in all cases to maintain the observed 8 s−1 electron flux through nNOSr) is shown in Fig. 8. Interestingly, the relative distribution of the total FMNsq and FMNhq enzyme species (the FMN‐shielded plus the FMN‐unshielded conformations) changes considerably across the range, going from a minimum of 50% total FMNsq species present at the fastest k2 to approximately 90% total FMNsq species present at the slowest allowable k2. Thus, the simulations predict that nNOSr should contain 50–90% of its FMN in the FMNsq state (with the remainder in the FMNhq state) during steady‐state cytochrome c reduction. This range in FMNsq/hq redox distribution arises from the offsetting rise and fall of the two FMN‐shielded forms of nNOSr (the FMNsq and FMNhq species) (Fig. 8) whose build up depends on whether the electron flux is limited primarily by the rate of interflavin electron transfer (i.e. favours build up of the FMNsq species) or by the rate of conformational change (i.e. favours build up of the FMNhq species).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Another notable feature is the enzyme re‐distribution that occurs during the time required to reduce one molar equivalent of cytochrome c (the area marked within dashed boxes in Figs 4 and 5). In all reactions, there is an immediate enzyme distribution change that reflects the very fast reaction of cytochrome c with the proportion of the nNOSr FMNhq that is in the open conformation (species a), converting it instantly to the open FMNsq form (species b). In nNOSr, this fast reaction involves approximately 50% of the total enzyme molecules, as stipulated by KAhq = 1. As this fast reaction occurs, the nNOSr FMNhq molecules that are in the closed conformation begin to open according to rate k−3 and react with cytochrome c. However, at the same time, the 50% of nNOSr molecules that have already reacted with cytochrome c begin to redistribute to the closed conformation (species c) according to rate k1, and some of these molecules undergo interflavin electron transfer to form the closed form of nNOSr FMNhq (species d). These enzyme ‘recycling’ transitions take place even within the first turnover to ultimately create a relatively steady concentration of species d, which in turn helps determine the observed rate of cytochrome c reduction during phase p and enables this rate to remain relatively unchanged as the reaction proceeds beyond the first turnover.  Compared to nNOSr, the KAhq setting of eNOSr is eight‐fold shifted toward the FMN‐shielded state and its electron flux to cytochrome c is approximately 16‐fold slower [CITATION]. Figure 9 shows four kinetic traces that we generated by simulating eNOS cytochrome c reduction, using the experimentally‐determined KAhq setting of 0.125 [CITATION], and different combinations of interflavin electron transfer rates (k2) and corresponding rates of FMN domain conformational motion that all maintain the experimentally‐observed electron flux value of 0.5 s−1 at 10 °C. The simulated traces A–C generally mimic the experimental trace obtained for eNOSr (Fig. 4) with respect to the general line shape and the time required to catalyze a single turnover (1.8 s). These traces cover k2 settings of 100, 10 and 5 s−1, respectively. Only at a very low k2 setting (0.75 s−1) (Fig. 9D) does the shape of the trace, and the time required to complete the first turnover, deviate significantly from the experimental trace obtained for eNOSr. Thus, unlike for nNOSr, the electron flux through eNOSr can be accurately simulated over a relatively broad range of conformational motion and interflavin electron transfer rate pairings.  [[FIGURE]] The graphs shown in Fig. 10 indicate the pairings of conformational motion and interflavin electron transfer rates that would maintain the experimentally‐measured electron flux of 0.5 s−1 through eNOSr [CITATION]. These curves give lower boundary values for the rates of conformational change, k1 = k3 ≥ 4.5 s−1 and k−1 = k−3 ≥ 0.56 s−1, and also give a lower boundary value for the rate of interflavin electron transfer, k2 ≥ 0.5 s−1.  [[FIGURE]] Figure 11 shows traces derived from the eNOSr reactions simulated in Fig. 9 and, in this case, shows how the distribution of eNOSr species would change as a function of reaction time under the different allowable kinetic settings. In all cases, initiating the reaction causes the 10% of reduced eNOSr that exists in the open conformation (according to the KAhq) to react instantly and convert to the open FMNsq form of eNOSr (species b). In the reaction that we simulated with relatively fast interflavin electron transfer (k2 =100 s−1) (Fig. 11A), the steady‐state enzyme distribution is reached within 0.5 s, which is far before the single turnover is finished (1.8 s). During the steady‐state (Fig. 11A), almost all of eNOSr populates only two forms: the closed FMNhq form (species d; 88.5%) and the open FMNsq form (species b; 11%). This distribution pattern is consistent with the relative slowness of the conformational opening step (k−1) in eNOSr, and also reflects the very different rates of conformational opening (k−1 and k−3) and closing (k1 and k3) as dictated by the value of KA. In the reactions that we simulated using slower interflavin electron transfer rates (k2 = 10, 5, or 3 s−1) (Fig. 11B–D), the steady‐state enzyme distribution is reached more slowly, although it is still achieved well before the single turnover is finished (1.8 s). Thus, under all cases, a considerable extent of enzyme recycling occurs to form species d even before the first equivalent of cytochrome c is reduced by eNOSr. However, at slower k2 rates, a greater proportion of the closed FMNhq form (species d) becomes redistributed once the reaction starts, predominantly distributing into the closed FMNsq form (species c; changing from almost 0% to 5%, 10% and 17% in Fig. 11A–D, respectively). This shift reflects a growing influence of the FMNsq reduction step in limiting electron flux through eNOSr as the k2 value decreases. However, even at a relatively slow interflavin electron transfer rate (k2 = 3 s−1) (Fig. 11D), the k2 does not become the major factor limiting electron flux because the KAhq setting of eNOSr still constrains the enzyme to exist predominantly as the closed FMNhq species whose inherent reactivity toward cytochrome c is masked by its very slow rate of conformational opening. Thus, our simulations predict that 70–95% of eNOSr will exist in the FMNhq state during its steady‐state cytochrome c reduction. By contrast, only 20–30% of nNOSr is predicted to be in its FMNhq state under identical reaction circumstances (see above). Their different enzyme distributions in the steady‐state can be primarily attributed to their widely dissimilar KAhq settings, as well as to their different rates of conformational change.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The kinetic model describing electron flux through NOSr, as measured by cytochrome c reductase activity (Fig. 2), was simulated using the computer software gepasi, version 3.30 [CITATION]. Cytochrome c was set to be in 100‐fold molar excess relative to the flavoprotein. Values for each of the four conformational rates (k1, k−1, k3 and k−3) and the interflavin electron transfer rate (k2) were input into the software. Each simulated reaction began with 100% of the enzyme in the fully reduced state (represented by species d and a in Fig. 2). For simulations of the nNOSr and eNOSr reactions, the initial concentrations of species d and a were determined based on the published KAhq values for nNOSr and eNOSr [CITATION]. In some cases, we used an iterative procedure to obtain best‐fit rate values and rate combinations to match a given rate of electron flux through nNOSr or eNOSr.  The ‘electron flux’ is defined as the rate of cytochrome c reduction in the steady‐state. This is calculated by fitting the simulated traces for the cytochrome c reduction to a straight line (i.e. omitting the initial, nonlinear portion). Linear fittings were carried out using the software origin pro, version 7.5 (OriginLab, Northampton, MA, USA). The rationale for this calculation is that these traces resemble the experimental results obtained when studying the reactions of NOS reductase domains with cytochrome c. Further details concerning the simulation procedures are provided in Doc. S1. 
