!~ABS~! The kinetochore is a complex multiprotein structure located at centromeres and required for the proper segregation of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. An important role in kinetochore assembly and function plays the centromeric histone H3 variant (CENH3). Cell cycle stage of CENH3 deposition to centromeres varies between different organisms. We confirmed by in vivo studies that deposition of Arabidopsis CENH3 takes place at centromeres during G2 and demonstrated that additionally a low turnover of CENH3 occurs along the cell cycle, apparently for replacement of damaged protein. Furthermore, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)-CENH3 of photobleached chromocenters is not replaced by EYFP-CENH3 molecules from unbleached centromeres of the same nucleus, indicating a stable incorporation of CENH3 into centromeric nucleosomes. In differentiated endopolyploid nuclei however, the amount of CENH3 at centromeres declines with age.
!~RES~! From previous experiments, quantifying the fluorescence intensity of EYFP-CENH3 and of endogenous CENH3 immunosignals, we concluded that loading of CENH3 to plant centromeres occurs mainly during G2 (Lermontova et al. CITATION; CITATION). To confirm this result by an independent in vivo approach, we applied long-term FRAP analysis and quantification of fluorescence intensity. Measurement of EYFP-CENH3 fluorescence intensity starting from metaphase revealed that no additional loading of EYFP-CENH3 took place during anaphase/early G1 (Fig. 1a, d). Instead, fluorescence intensity dropped in the course of bleaching and persisted at a low level during the next 30 min (Fig. 1b, e). The same observation was made when one daughter nucleus of a cell in anaphase/telophase was bleached (Fig. 1c). Fluorescence intensities of cells that were ready to enter mitosis (late G2 cells, identified by the presence of double signals for EYFP-CENH3) were compared with those of surrounding cells in other cycle stages (G1 to early G2; Fig. 2). This measurement has confirmed that in late G2 cells the amount of CENH3 is twice as high as in the surrounding cells (Fig. 2b). We followed selected cells within 60 min in order to demonstrate that they enter mitosis (Fig. 2a, 25, 30, and 60 min). To confirm additionally that nuclei with double signals for CENH3 are in G2, we performed a double immunostaining experiment with anti-CENH3 and anti-GUS antibodies on transgenic plants transformed with CycB1;1-GUS construct (Colon-Carmona et al. CITATION). CycB1;1 is expressed during G2; therefore, it can be used as a marker for this stage. Indeed, all cells showing double signals for CENH3 (green) showed immunostaining of GUS (red) in cytoplasm or cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 2c). Bleaching of a single fluorescent locus, a group of loci or an entire interphase nucleus (the latter shown in Fig. 3a) resulted in slow and incomplete fluorescence recovery. Short-term FRAP analysis after bleaching of single fluorescent loci of interphase nuclei yielded fluorescence recovery of up to ∼6% within 116 s (Fig. 3b). To ensure that recovery is due to replacement of damaged protein by newly synthesized one and not due to fluorophore recovery, seedlings of EYFP-CENH3 transformants were fixed in 4% formaldehyde and used for the FRAP. In this case, no recovery was observed after photobleaching, indicating that EYFP-CENH3 bleaching is irreversible. Therefore, it was concluded that the main loading of CENH3 takes place during late G2, because a double fluorescence intensity was only found in nuclei that within ∼1 h had past mitosis (Fig. 2a). A slow turnover of CENH3 occurs during G1 to early G2 phase of the cell cycle in A. thaliana cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To examine the potential mobility of CENH3 incorporated into centromeres, we performed FLIP experiments, in which individual chromocenters of 10 nuclei were repeatedly bleached and fluorescence of other chromocenters was continuously measured (Fig. 4). We observed only a very low reduction of fluorescence intensity at unbleached chromocenters (Fig. 4) which was within the range of reduction resulting from image scanning. These data indicate that CENH3 incorporates stably into centromeric nucleosomes and does not exchange between centromeres inside a nucleus. [[FIGURE]]  After we had shown that CENH3 incorporation into centromeric nucleosomes is stable, we addressed the question whether the level of centromeric CENH3 is maintained during plant growth and development. We compared CENH3 immunostaining patterns in 2C and 4C nuclei isolated from young and mature leaves of A. thaliana wild-type plants, accession Columbia (Fig. 5a). Three types of immunolabeling were observed: (1) strong labeling at centromeric chromocenters and weak labeling of nucleoplasm, (2) weak labeling of chromocenters and nucleoplasm, and (3) weak nucleoplasm labeling only (Fig. 5b). About 60% of 4C nuclei isolated from young leaves showed strong labeling of centromeric chromocenters, while only 16% of 4C nuclei isolated from mature leaves showed such labeling pattern (Fig. 5c). In contrast, 2C nuclei isolated from young and from mature leaves showed similar immunostaining patterns as 4C nuclei from young leaves, indicating that the found differences between 4C nuclei are not due to poor immunostaining of nuclei from older tissues. Nevertheless, the percentage of 2C nuclei with strong labeling of chromocenters was lower in differentiated (60%) than in meristematic tissues (93%) (Lermontova et al. CITATION). Since we observed differences in distribution of CENH3 immunostaining patterns between 2C and 4C nuclei of mature leaves, we continued analysis with nuclei of higher ploidy levels (8C). Due to the low level of endopolyploidization in young tissues, a sufficient amount of nuclei with a ploidy level higher than 4C can be isolated only from mature leaves. We found in 8C nuclei of mature leaves similar proportions of the three CENH3 immunostaining patterns (14% type 1, 58% type 2, and 28% of type 3) as in 4C nuclei (Fig. 5c). [[FIGURE]]  To test whether the reduction of centromeric CENH3 immunosignals in mature leaves correlates with changes in compaction of centromeric chromocentres, we compared the FISH signals for the centromeric 178 bp (Martinez-Zapater et al. CITATION) repeat in 2C and 4C nuclei isolated from young and mature leaves. No differences in distribution and intensity of signals were observed between nuclei of young and mature leaves, indicating that decreased centromeric CENH3 immunosignals are not due to dispersion or decay of centromeric DNA.
!~MM~! Generation of the EYFP-CENH3 transgenic plants has been described previously (Lermontova et al. CITATION). A. thaliana seeds transformed with AtEYFP-CENH3 were laid out on agar medium in cover slip chambers (Nalge Nunc Int.). Roots growing parallel to the cover slip bottom were analyzed in a LSM 510META confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, Germany) using a ×63 oil immersion objective (n.A. 1.3). EYFP was excited with a 488-nm laser line and fluorescence recorded with a 505–550 bandpass filter. Images were collected at 4-min intervals for up to 60 min. At each time point single images were taken with open detector pinhole. Alternatively, image stacks with 2 μm z-steps were made with pinhole adjusted accordingly. Images of Z-stacks were projected in maximum intensity projection. Intensities of the signals were analyzed by the LSM software release 3.2. FRAP experiments were performed with a 30-mW argon ion laser. Roots were observed with a ×63 oil immersion objective (n.A. 1.3). EYFP fluorescence (before and after bleaching) was visualized using 5% of the 488 nm laser line with the laser running at 50% power in combination with a 505–550-nm band pass filter and an open detector pinhole. A single prebleach image was recorded to measure prebleach intensity. For bleaching small well-defined circular areas the size of an individual cell, a cluster of centromeres or a single centromere were photobleached using 100% of the 488 laser line with three iterations (medium bleaching) to 10 iterations (complete bleaching). The bleaching scan lasted ∼2.5 to 8.0 s and was immediately followed by an image scan. Images were taken at 4-min intervals for up to 60 min or at 14-s intervals for up to 3 min. Intensities of the signals were background normalized to produce relative fluorescence intensity data. For fluorescence loss in photobleaching (FLIP), nuclei of interest were prescanned three times followed by additional 47 scans alternated by bleaching of a single chromocenter. Recordings were made with a ×63 oil emersion objective n.A. 1.3. For normal scanning, 4–5% laser power was used in combination with a 650-μm pinhole; scan speed was set at 6, image size was 512 × 100 pixels. Bleaching was performed with 100% laser power with four iterations over an area of 17 × 17 pixels. Total time of observation was 64 s. During this period the loss of fluorescence was measured in the bleached area as well as in surrounding unbleached chromocenters. For the isolation of leaf nuclei, plants were grown in soil in a cultivation room. Leaves were fixed in 4% formaldehyde in Tris buffer (10 mM Tris, 10 mM Na2EDTA, and 100 mM Triton X-100, pH 7.5) for 20 min. Nuclei were isolated, stained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI; 1 mg/ml), and processed for flow sorting according to their fluorescence intensity reflecting the DNA content as described (Jasencakova et al. CITATION). Nuclei of each fraction were sorted into separate Eppendorf tubes, subsequently dropped onto microscopy slides into a drop containing 100 mM Tris, 50 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.05% Tween20, and 5% sucrose, air-dried, and used for immunolabeling or stored at −20°C. Flow cytometry was performed on the flow sorter FACSAria (BD Biosciences) equipped with 375- and 488-nm lasers. DAPI emission was measured using a 450/40-nm filter. Immunostaining (Jasencakova et al. CITATION) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) (Schubert et al. CITATION) of nuclei/chromosomes was performed as described. Endogenous CENH3 was detected using rabbit antibodies against a N-terminal peptide of A. thaliana CENH3 (1:500) and goat anti-rabbit rhodamine (1:200; Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories) or goat anti-rabbit Alexa 488 (1:200, Invitrogen). GUS protein expressed under the control of CyclinB1;1 promoter (CycB1; 1) was detected with anti-GUS antibodies (1:100; Molecular Probes) and goat anti-rabbit rhodamine (1:200; Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories). As probe for FISH, pAL harboring the 178-bp centromere-specific repeat (Martinez-Zapater et al. CITATION) was labeled with digoxigenin-dUTP by PCR with sequence-specific primers forward 5′-AGTCTTTGGCTTTGTGTCTT-3′ and reverse 5′-TGGACTTTGGCTACACC ATG-3′ (Kawabe and Nasuda CITATION). The FISH signals were detected using mouse anti-Dig (1:250; Roche) and goat anti-mouse Alexa 488 (1:200; Molecular Probes).
