!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) is a key hormone regulating plant growth, development and the response to biotic and abiotic stress. ABA binding to pyrabactin resistance (PYR)/PYR1‐like (PYL)/Regulatory Component of Abscisic acid Receptor (RCAR) intracellular receptors promotes the formation of stable complexes with certain protein phosphatases type 2C (PP2Cs), leading to the activation of ABA signalling. The PYR/PYL/RCAR family contains 14 genes in Arabidopsis and is currently the largest plant hormone receptor family known; however, it is unclear what functional differentiation exists among receptors. Here, we identify two distinct classes of receptors, dimeric and monomeric, with different intrinsic affinities for ABA and whose differential properties are determined by the oligomeric state of their apo forms. Moreover, we find a residue in PYR1, H60, that is variable between family members and plays a key role in determining oligomeric state. In silico modelling of the ABA activation pathway reveals that monomeric receptors have a competitive advantage for binding to ABA and PP2Cs. This work illustrates how receptor oligomerization can modulate hormonal responses and more generally, the sensitivity of a ligand‐dependent signalling system.
!~RES~! The PYR/PYL/RCAR proteins studied at a structural level to date (PYR1, PYL1 and PYL2) are homodimeric in the absence of ABA, but form 1:1 monomeric complexes with PP2Cs after ABA binding (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, the homodimerization and PP2C‐binding interfaces of these receptors are largely overlapping (FIG-REF). This structural organization suggests that homodimerization and PP2C binding are in competition with one another. Thus, dimerization, together with the conformational changes in the gating loops, contributes to block receptor–PP2C interactions in the absence of ABA, presumably functioning to prevent basal activation of the pathway. Hence, dissociation of the PYR1 receptor dimer, likely induced by ABA binding, should precede the formation of the ternary complex. However, these conclusions are based largely on crystallographic observations of receptors at high concentration that shift equilibria towards dimer formation (CITATION; CITATION). To address this, we analysed the oligomeric state of several PYR/PYL/RCAR proteins by Size‐Exclusion Chromatography (SEC) coupled to Multiple Angle Laser Light Scattering (MALLS). In this approach, SEC followed by SDS–PAGE analysis of the eluted fractions reveals the formation of complexes, while the MALLS analysis provides an independent determination of the molecular mass of the eluting species which, unlike SEC, is not affected by deviations from globularity (CITATION). Additionally, with this technique it is possible to work at moderate protein concentrations. For all the MALLS experiments described below, proteins were injected at a concentration of 80 μM (see Materials and methods). [[FIGURE]] Using this approach, we studied the oligomeric state, PP2C interactions and effects of ABA for five members of the receptor family: PYR1, PYL1, PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8. The analyses of these proteins in the absence of ABA indicate that PYR1 and PYL1 are dimeric proteins (apparent Mr of 39 and 50 kDa; predicted 44 and 51 kDa, respectively; FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S1). Unexpectedly, PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8 are monomeric proteins (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S1). When the same experiments are performed in the presence of ABA, PYR1 eluted at higher volumes (indicative of a decrease in molecular size) and the apparent molecular mass was 21 kDa, which coincides with that of a PYR1 monomer (predicted=22 kDa). On the contrary, analysis of the PYR1Y120A, a mutant defective in ABA binding (CITATION), indicates that this mutant does not become monomeric in response to ABA (FIG-REF). Together, these results indicate that ABA binding is both necessary and sufficient for dissociation of the PYR1 dimer. Similarly, PYL1 showed a reduction of its apparent Mr in the presence of ABA (Supplementary Figure S1), although it was less completely dissociated by ABA than PYR1. As expected, the apparent masses for monomeric receptors PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8 did not shift in the presence of ABA (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S1). Thus, ABA receptors can exist in either monomeric or dimeric forms and ABA promotes dissociation of the dimeric receptors. [[FIGURE]] We also examined interactions between receptors and the PP2C HAB1 in the absence of ABA. For this purpose, we used the catalytic core of HAB1 (ΔNHAB1, amino acids 179–511), rather than the full‐length protein, which is difficult to produce in recombinant expression systems. These experiments revealed differences in basal PP2C interactions between monomeric and dimeric receptors. In agreement with crystallographic studies, all receptors tested form stable complexes with ΔNHAB1 in the presence of ABA at 1:1 stoichiometry, as indicated by the apparent Mr of the complexes (right panels in FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S1). Importantly, PYR1 and PYL1 do not interact with PP2C in the absence of ABA, while PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8 show partial interactions (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S1). The MALLS analyses show intermediate molecular masses, indicative of a fast exchange between complexed and uncomplexed forms. These results indicate that monomeric receptors are capable of establishing weak but clearly detectable interactions with ΔNHAB1 in vitro in the absence of ABA, and suggest that a key function of dimerization in receptors like PYR1 and PYL1 is to prevent basal interactions with PP2Cs in the absence of ABA. The apparent ABA dissociation constants for PYL1, PYL2, PYL5 and PYL8 have been previously determined (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and are shown in Table I. We carried out Isothermal Titration Calorimetry (ITC) experiments to measure the apparent ABA‐binding affinity of PYL6 and PYR1. The Kd for PYL6 was 1.1 μM (±0.01) with a negative enthalpy, indicating an exothermic binding process (see Table I). Under the same conditions, PYR1 did not produce significant heat signals indicating a much lower affinity. When PYR1 was assayed at higher protein concentrations (200 μM), an endothermic binding curve was obtained (see below). Due to the low apparent binding affinity, the exact value of the apparent Kd could not be precisely determined. However, given the experimental conditions used, it can be estimated to be greater than 50 μM. NMR experiments in which binding was followed through ABA‐induced resonance shifts on a 15N‐labelled PYR1 sample were used to obtain an independent estimation of the dissociation constant. The value of the Kd obtained was 97±36 μM (Supplementary Figure S2). Thus, the dimeric receptor PYR1 has an apparent affinity for ABA that is almost two orders of magnitude lower than that of the monomeric receptors. [[TABLE]] The oligomeric state and apparent affinities for ABA of the PYR/PYL/RCAR receptors studied here and elsewhere are summarized in Table I. Comparison of these parameters indicates a strong correlation between the ABA affinities and the oligomeric state of the apo form of the receptor, with monomeric receptors showing Kds in the range of 1 μM and negative enthalpies, and dimeric receptors showing much lower apparent affinities and positive binding enthalpies for ABA. As mentioned above, the amino‐acid residues involved in hormone binding are highly conserved in the PYR/PYL/RCAR family. Hence, the observed differences in apparent enthalpy and binding affinity are unlikely to be the result of differences in the ABA‐binding pocket. The lower apparent affinity of dimeric receptors could be explained by the unfavourable contribution of dimer dissociation to the thermodynamics of the receptor activation process. Ligand binding is typically an exothermic process, as it normally results in the net creation of chemical bonds between ligand and protein, favouring the binding reaction. On the contrary, protein dissociation is often endothermic as it usually involves a net breakage of chemical bonds between protein monomers. We hypothesized that the unfavourable contribution of dimer dissociation to the thermodynamics of the receptor activation process could explain the correlation between the oligomeric state of the apo form of the receptor and their intrinsic hormone binding affinities. In order to test this, we generated a PYR1 variant that is impaired for dimerization but is not compromised in ABA or PP2C binding. As shown above, monomeric receptors have a certain capacity to interact with ΔNHAB1 in the absence of ABA while dimeric receptors do not. This observation is in agreement with the strong ABA dependence of PYR1–HAB1 and PYL1–HAB1 interactions observed previously in a yeast two‐hybrid (Y2H) assay system and the ABA‐independent interactions observed for PYL5, PYL6 and PYL8 (CITATION; CITATION). We took advantage of this assay to identify PYR1 mutations leading to altered PYR1–PP2C interactions. Using a previously described error‐prone PCR mutagenized PYR1 library (CITATION), we screened yeast cells for PYR1 mutants that enable interaction with HAB1 in the absence of ABA, which led to the identification of a missense mutant in which histidine 60 was replaced by proline (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The SEC‐MALLS analysis of the H60P mutant produced a single elution peak with an apparent mass of 30 kDa (FIG-REF), which is between those expected for the dimer and monomer species. This elution peak is wide and asymmetric, indicative of polydispersity. In contrast, in the presence of ABA, PYR1H60P elutes as a single symmetric peak with an apparent mass of 22 kDa, as expected for the monomeric form. This indicates that in the absence of ABA, PYR1H60P behaves as a mixture of dimeric and monomeric species in rapid exchange. In order to confirm this, we measured dimer dissociation rates by ITC with wt and mutant PYR1. For this purpose, concentrated solutions of either protein were injected into the ITC cell filled with buffer. In this way, the sudden dilution of the protein promotes dissociation and the associated heat can be measured. As can be observed (FIG-REF), the thermogram corresponding to PYR1H60P shows a profile typical of protein dissociation, with endothermic peaks whose area decrease as the protein concentration in the ITC cell increases. The calculated dissociation constant is 39 μM. In contrast, wt PYR1 produced much weaker signals that disappeared after a few injections, indicating that limited dissociation occurs only in extremely diluted conditions. We next tested whether the PYR1H60P mutant could interact in vitro with ΔNHAB1 in the absence of ABA. For this purpose, PYR1H60P and ΔNHAB1 were mixed in equimolar amounts and analysed by SEC‐MALLS. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, wt PYR1 does not interact with ΔNHAB1 in the absence of ABA. However, PYR1H60P shows partial interaction with ΔNHAB1, similar to monomeric receptors (FIG-REF), and confirms the constitutive interactions detected by the Y2H assay (FIG-REF). We measured the apparent affinity and enthalpy for ABA binding of the PYR1H60P mutant and compared it with that of wt PYR1 (FIG-REF). The introduction of this mutation leads to a significant increase in apparent ABA‐binding affinity with a dissociation constant of 3 μM and a negative enthalpy, similar to that of monomeric receptors. This enhanced ABA‐binding affinity was confirmed in a functional assay based on the in vitro reconstitution of the ABA signalling cascade (CITATION). For this purpose, wt PYR1 or PYR1H60P was combined in a test tube with ΔNHAB1, SnRK2.6/OST1 and a C‐terminal deletion of the ABF2 transcription factor (ΔCABF2, amino acids 1–173), as described in Materials and methods. In this assay, OST1 activity is measured as autophosphorylation as well as trans‐phosphorylation of its natural substrate, ΔCABF2. In the absence of ABA, OST1 activity is inhibited by ΔNHAB1‐mediated dephosphorylation, while addition of ABA leads to the receptor‐mediated inactivation of the phosphatase and increased levels of OST1 activity (CITATION; CITATION). As can be observed in FIG-REF, PYR1H60P was able to recover OST1 activity at lower ABA concentrations than wt PYR1. This result is in agreement with the measured increase in ABA‐binding affinity and indicates that a monomeric variant of PYR1 is more effective than the dimeric PYR1 for the inhibition of the phosphatase activity of ΔNHAB1 at lower ABA concentrations. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, these results demonstrate that the His60Pro mutation produces a destablization of the PYR1 dimer and that this renders the mutant PYR1 capable of establishing weak, but clearly detectable, interactions with ΔNHAB1 in the absence of the hormone, supporting the notion that dimerization contributes to prevent interaction between receptor and phosphatase in the absence of ABA by occluding the phosphatase docking region on the surface of the receptor. Moreover, they demonstrate that the differences in apparent ABA‐binding affinity between monomeric and dimeric receptors are produced by a negative contribution of dimerization to the receptor activation process. The structure of the ternary complex formed by PYR1H60P, ABA and the catalytic core of HAB1 (ΔNHAB1) was obtained by X‐ray crystallography (see Table II for crystallographic data collection and refinement statistics). The electron density around position 60 of PYR1 confirmed the substitution of histidine for proline (see Supplementary Figure S3). The mutant complex is remarkably similar to that formed by wt PYR1 and ΔNHAB1 (CITATION). However, the comparison of these two complexes with the structure of dimeric PYR1 indicates a major rearrangement of the peptide backbone around residue 60, with a small change in the Phi angle and a rotation of the Psi torsion angle of 165° (FIG-REF). This conformational change influences the position of the side chain of the neighbouring residue, Phe61 at the core of the dimerization interface. As can be observed in FIG-REF, in both the wt and mutant ternary complexes Phe61 of PYR1 occupies a hydrophobic pocket at the centre of the receptor–phosphatase interface. In dimeric PYR1, this residue occupies an equivalent position, but this time at the interface between the two PYR1 monomers. However, in this case, the space available to Phe61 is restricted by the equivalent Phe61 residue from the second molecule in the dimer, whose side chain protrudes into this hydrophobic pocket (FIG-REF). The modification of the backbone torsion angles around residue 60 in wt PYR1 produces an outward displacement of about 1 Å in the position of the Cα and the side chain of Phe61 in each molecule of the dimer (FIG-REF). This rearrangement is necessary to prevent a steric clash between the two Phe61 residues at the dimer interface. While introduction of a proline at position 60 is compatible with the formation of a phosphatase complex, as demonstrated here (FIG-REF), this residue limits the flexibility of the peptide backbone at this critical position, hindering in turn the outward movement of Phe61 and leading to a steric clash at the dimer interface, explaining the decreased tendency of this receptor variant to form dimers. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Both monomeric and dimeric receptors can form high‐affinity complexes with PP2Cs, and once they are formed, both complexes have a similar stability (CITATION; CITATION). However, our results indicate that dimeric receptors (i) need to dissociate into monomers before they can interact with and inhibit a PP2C and (ii) have a lower intrinsic affinity for ABA. We reasoned that if both monomeric and dimeric receptors are expressed in the same cell, then the monomeric receptors would have a competitive advantage over dimeric ones for ABA binding and the formation of ternary complexes, especially in situations when ABA concentrations would be limiting. In order to explore this concept, we performed in silico modelling of the receptor activation process. We considered a model consisting of generic monomeric and dimeric receptors that compete for binding to the same pool of ABA and PP2C molecules. The reaction diagram used in this model is shown in FIG-REF. Dimeric receptors exist in a monomer–dimer equilibrium (reaction 2) and can form a ternary complex in two different ways. A high‐affinity pathway involving binding of ABA to the monomeric form with an equilibrium constant similar to that of monomeric receptors (reactions 1 and 6) and a low‐affinity pathway involving binding of ABA to dimeric receptors and dissociation of the receptor dimer (reactions 3–6). The apparent Kds for the global reactions leading to the formation of receptor–ABA and receptor–ABA–phosphatase complexes have been experimentally determined (highlighted in FIG-REF) and were used to estimate the equilibrium constants for the individual reactions in the model. [[FIGURE]] The equilibrium constant for dimer dissociation (reaction 2) is an important parameter in the model, since it determines the proportion of monomeric and dimeric forms of the receptor. Due to the stability of the PYR1 dimers, it was not possible to determine this value experimentally. A series of models were generated with values of this dissociation constant in a range between 0.3 and 0.05 μM. Values above this range would have been easily detected by the ITC dissociation experiment with wt PYR1, while values much lower than 0.05 μM would result in a very stable receptor dimer, which would prevent formation of the ternary complex. The concentrations of receptor and PP2C molecules were chosen so that the proportion between receptors (both types combined) and PP2C molecules was always 1:1. However, three different situations were considered: monomeric and dimeric receptors in equal amounts (balanced model) and concentrations of dimeric receptors either exceeding or significantly below that of monomeric receptor (unbalanced models). The steady‐state concentrations of the different species were determined for a range of protein and ABA concentrations. FIG-REF shows the contribution of monomeric and dimeric receptors to the formation of ternary complexes at ABA concentrations ranging from 10 nM to 10 μM for PP2C and receptor concentrations of 1 μM and with a value of the dimerization constant of 0.05 μM. As can be appreciated, at 0.6 μM ABA, >50% of the PP2C is forming ternary complexes, which represents the inactive form of the phosphatase. However, two thirds of these ternary complexes are formed by monomeric receptors and only one third by dimeric ones. The competitive advantage of monomeric receptors is stronger at lower ABA concentrations. For example, at 0.2 μM ABA, 80% of the ternary complexes are formed by monomeric receptors while at 1 μM ABA, they represent 60%. When the system reaches saturation, at ABA concentrations between 2 and 10 μM, both receptor types contribute similarly to the inhibition of the phosphatase activity. The behaviour of the system is strongly influenced by the relative abundance of monomeric and dimeric receptors and the competitive disadvantage of dimeric receptors can be compensated if they are more abundant than monomeric ones. For example, when the concentration of dimeric receptors is nine‐fold higher than that of monomeric ones, dimeric receptors contribute two thirds of the ternary complexes at 0.2 μM ABA and >85% at 1 μM ABA (FIG-REF). If monomeric receptors are more abundant their competitive advantage is exacerbated. The competitive advantage of monomeric receptors decreases with increasing values of the dimerization constant and at lower receptor concentrations, both conditions that would promote the dissociation of dimeric receptors. However, an advantage towards the activation of monomeric receptors is always observed for all the balanced models, even when protein concentrations are below the value of the dimer dissociation constant. Finally, the absolute PP2C and receptor concentrations determine the concentration of ABA required to attaining substantial inhibition of the phosphatase activity.
!~MM~! Plasmids pETM11 or pET28a were used to generate N‐terminal His6‐tagged recombinant proteins. The cloning of 6 × his–ΔNHAB1 (lacking residues 1–178), PYR1 and PYL5 constructs were previously described (CITATION, CITATION). Full‐length PYL1, PYL6 and PYL8 were cloned in pETM11. PYR1Y120A mutant was produced using the Overlap extension procedure (CITATION) and cloned into pETM11. The coding sequence of OST1 and a C‐terminal deletion of ABF2 (ΔCABF2, amino acids 1–173) were cloned into pET28a. The H60P mutation was obtained in a screen designed to identify altered PYR1–PP2C interactions, the coding sequence for PYR1 was mutated by error‐prone PCR and the mutagenized library was transformed into S. cerevisiae strain Y190 containing pAD‐HAB1 and 1 × 106 colonies were screened. Y190 contains a galactose‐inducible HIS3 nutritional reporter that allows positive selection for PYR1–HAB1 interactions in the absence of exogenously added ABA by growth on media containing 3‐amino triazole. Once identified, the H60P mutation was introduced into PYR1 using the QuickChange site directed mutagenesis protocol. BL21(DE3) cells transformed with the corresponding constructs in pETM11 or pET28a vectors were grown in LB medium to an OD600 of 0.6–0.8. At this point, 1 mM IPTG was added and the cells were harvested after overnight incubation at 20°C. Proteins were purified as described by CITATION. Briefly, cell pellets were resuspended in lysis buffer (30 mM Tris pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, 15 mM Imidazole, 1 mM MnCl2, 1 mM β‐mercaptoethanol and Protease cocktail inhibitor), lysed with a microfluidizer (Microfuildics) and purified by Ni‐affinity. For proteins produced from pETM11 vectors, the 6 × his tag was excised by digestion with the TEV protease. In the case of PYR1, PYL1, PYL6 and PYL8, an additional step of gel filtration using an S200 column (GE) was carried out. The PYR1H60P–ABA–ΔNHAB1 ternary complex was prepared by mixing PYR1H60P, ΔNHAB1 and ABA to final concentrations of 3, 5 mg/ml and 1 mM, respectively, in 20 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM MnCl2 and 1 mM β‐mercaptoethanol. Crystallization conditions for the complex were identified at the High Throughput crystallization Laboratory of EMBL Grenoble Outstation (https://embl.fr/htxlab) as described in CITATION. The crystals used for data collection were obtained by the vapour diffusion method in 0.25 M NaCl, 19% Peg 3350 at 20°C. X‐ray diffraction data were collected at the ID23‐1 beamline of the ESRF to 2.1 Å resolution. Initial phases were obtained by the molecular replacement with the program Phaser (CITATION) using the wt PYR1–ΔNHAB1 complex as search model (3QN1) (CITATION). Successive rounds of automatic refinement and manual building were carried out with RefMac5 (CITATION) and Coot (CITATION). SEC was performed using an S200 Superdex column (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with 20 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl and 1 mM β‐mercaptoethanol. For the experiments with ABA, either 1 or 5 mM ABA was included in the equilibration buffer. Receptor proteins were injected at a concentration of 80 μM. For the analysis of receptor–PP2C complexes receptor molecules were mixed prior to injection with equimolecular amounts of ΔNHAB1 (at a final concentration of 80 μM each protein) in the presence or absence of 1 mM (+)ABA. All separations were performed at 20°C with a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min. On‐line MALLS detection was performed with a DAWN‐EOS detector (Wyatt Technology Corp., Santa Barbara, CA) using a laser emitting at 690 nm. Data were analysed and weight‐averaged molar masses (Mw) were calculated using the ASTRA software (Wyatt Technology Corp.) as described previously (CITATION). ITC experiments were performed using a VP‐ITC calorimeter equipped with the control, data acquisition and analysis software ORIGIN 7. All solutions were centrifuged, degassed to avoid formation of bubbles and equilibrated to the corresponding temperature prior to each experiment. Experiments were carried out at pH 7.5 and 25°C. In the binding experiments, protein solution in the calorimetric cell was titrated with the (+)ABA ligand dissolved in the dialysis buffer (20 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM and 1 mM β‐mercaptoethanol). PYL6 and His6–PYR1(H60P) were assayed at a protein concentration of 20 μM, and the concentration of (+)ABA stock solution in the injection syringe was 0.8 mM. PYR1 was assayed at protein concentrations from 50 to 200 μM, and the concentration of the (+)ABA stock solutions varied from 0.8 to 2 mM. The titrations were carried out within a series of 30 injections of 7 μl each one. The heat evolved after each ligand injection was obtained from the integral of the calorimetric signal. The heat due to the binding reaction between protein and the ligand was obtained as the difference between the heat of reaction and the corresponding heat of dilution obtained from independent titration experiments of (+)ABA into buffer. The resulting binding isotherms were analysed by non‐linear least squares fitting of the experimental data to an one‐set of sites model with the Microcal Origin (OriginLab Corp., Northapton, MA) software. Data shown are the average of three independent experiments±s.d. PYR1 dissociation experiments were performed with sequences of 30 injections of 6 μl each. The cell contained 20 mM Hepes pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl and 1 mM β‐mercaptoethanol. The concentration of PYR1 or PYR1H60P stock solution in the injection syringe was 0.7 mM. The injections were performed over a period of 6 s, with 5 min intervals between injections, reaching a final protein concentration of 75 μM in the cell. Data were analysed and fitted using the dissociation fitting model provided by Microcal Origin software, implemented with corrected DeltaH.ogs and Dissociation.fdf files kindly provided by Professor Alan Cooper (Chemistry Department, University of Glasgow). For wt PYR1, an independent determination of the ABA‐binding affinity was carried out by NMR. Experiments were done at 37°C on a sample of 15N‐labelled PYR1 containing 150 mM NaCl and 20 mM Tris pH 7.5. 1H‐15N HSQC spectra were acquired at a 1H resonance frequency of 600 or 800 MHz. An estimation of the dissociation constant, Kd, of the PYR1:ABA complex was obtained by titration of ABA into an 15N‐labelled sample of PYR1. Measurements were done at 10 different ABA/PYR1 concentration ratios ranging from 0 to 2.59. For each step of the titration, a 1H‐15N HSQC was recorded. Measurements of the dimer dissociation constants were carried out by ITC through serial injections of protein solutions of either wt or His6PYR1(H60P) into the cell containing the same buffer. Binding isotherms were analysed by non‐linear least squares fitting with the ORIGIN 7 software (OriginLab Corp.). The dissociation data were analysed with the dissociation model provided by Dr Alan Cooper's (http://www.chem.gla.ac.uk/staff/alanc/service1.htm). Data shown are the average of three independent experiments±s.d. OST1 phosphorylation assays were done as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Inactivation of OST1 was achieved by incubation with the protein phosphatase ΔNHAB1. Assays to test recovery of OST1 activity were done by previous incubation during 10 min of ΔNHAB1 with either wt PYR1 or PYR1H60P proteins in 30 μl of kinase buffer (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.8, 20 mM MgCl2, 2 mM MnCl2) in the presence of the indicated concentration of (+)ABA. Then, ΔCABF2 recombinant protein (100 ng) and 3.5 μCi of γ‐32ATP (3000 Ci/mmol) were added to the mix and the reaction was incubated for 50 min. The reaction was stopped by adding Laemmli buffer. After the reaction, proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE using an 8% acrylamide gel and transferred onto an Immobilon‐P membrane (Millipore). Radioactivity was detected using a Phosphoimage system (FLA5100, Fujifilm). Quantification of activity based on relative intensity of phosphorylated bands was performed using a phosphoimager Image Gauge V.4.0. The data presented are averages of at least three independent experiments. Computational modelling was performed on the Infobiotics Workbench executable biology platform (http://www.infobiotics.org/) using a stochastic P system framework (CITATION). A multi‐compartment stochastic simulation algorithm (CITATION) was used for simulations. Two separate models were initially considered, corresponding to monomeric and dimeric receptors. The model for dimeric receptors included all reactions in FIG-REF while that of monomeric receptors included only reactions 1 and 6. Those reaction rates that were not experimentally available were estimated using the CMA‐ES optimization algorithm (CITATION). The values of the estimated parameters were progressively adjusted through this algorithm so that the individual models reproduce the apparent ABA binding constants of the experimentally measured reactions. These reactions include the formation of ternary receptor–ABA–PP2C complexes (a Kd value of 30 nM was chosen as representative of generic monomeric and dimeric receptors), binding of ABA to a monomeric receptor or to the monomeric form of a dimeric receptor (Kd of 1.0 μM) and binding of ABA to dimeric receptors (with Kds of 52, 59 and 97 μM for PYL1, PYL2 and PYR1, respectively, a value of 60 μM was chosen). Once the individual models were parameterized, a combined model was generated simulating the response of monomeric and dimeric receptors sharing a common pool of ABA and PP2C molecules. This combined model was studied over a range of ABA (1 nM–40 μM) and PP2C (0.1 nM–10 μM) concentrations for situations corresponding to balanced or unbalanced receptor concentrations (see main text). All models were encoded in SBML version 4 level 2 (http://sbml.org/). SBML files will be made publicly available on the Biomodels database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). Atomic coordinates and structure factors for the reported crystal structure have been deposited in the Protein Data Bank under accession code 3ZVU. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
