!~ABS~! Phytochrome Interacting Factor 1 (PIF1), a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein, functions as a negative regulator of various facets of photomorphogenesis. To indentify PIF1-interacting proteins, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening using PIF1 as a bait and identified a group of proteins including PIF1 itself, PIF3 and long hypocotyl in far-red 1 (HFR1), an atypical HLH protein. Directed yeast two-hybrid interaction assays showed that PIF1 can form heterodimers with all other PIFs as well as with HFR1. PIF1 and PIF3 interacted with each other in both in vitro and in vivo co-immunoprecipitation assays. PIF1-PIF3 heterodimer also bound to a G-box DNA sequence element in vitro. To understand the biological significance of these interactions, a pif1pif3 double mutant was obtained and characterized. Analyses of the single and double mutants showed that PIF3 plays a prominent role in repressing photomorphogenesis under continuous blue light conditions. pif1 and pif3 showed additive phenotypes more prominently under discontinuous blue light conditions. Similar to PIF1, PIF3 was also rapidly phosphorylated, poly-ubiquitylated and degraded in response to blue light. PIF3 also interacted with phytochromes in response to blue light. A PIF3 mutant defective in interaction with both phyA and phyB displayed reduced degradation under blue light, suggesting that phy-interaction was necessary for the blue light-induced degradation of PIF3. Taken together, these data suggest a combinatorial control of photomorphogenesis by bHLH proteins in response to light in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! To identify proteins that interact with PIF1 and are possibly involved in the phytochrome signal transduction pathway, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid screen of an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library using PIF1 as bait. Full-length PIF1, being a transcription factor, activates the expression of LacZ and HIS3 reporter genes by itself and thus it is not a suitable bait for the screen. Six deletion constructs were fused to GAL4 DNA binding domain and assayed for transcriptional activation in yeast to find a suitable bait (Supplementary figure S1A). These constructs were transformed into AH109 yeast strain and assayed for growth in YPD medium lacking histidine (Supplementary figure S1B). All of the constructs, except C198 and C328, supported growth on −HIS media demonstrating activation of the expression of the HIS3 gene. Fragment C328 was selected for screening as it was the largest fragment without transcriptional activation activity. After screening ~2 × 106 colonies on selective media lacking histidine and adenine, 16 independent positive clones were isolated (data not shown). Three of the clones identified multiple times encode bHLH factors involved in photomorphogenesis, PIF1 itself (1 time), PIF3 (2 times) and HFR1 (7 times). Although other PIFs except PIF3 were not identified from the screen, we cloned PIF4, PIF5, PIF6 and PIF7 in yeast two-hybrid vectors and included them in the interaction assays based on their roles in photomorphogenesis (Castillon et al. CITATION; Leivar and Quail CITATION). Quantitative yeast two-hybrid assays were performed in both orientations using PIF1 as a bait and a prey with other PIFs and HFR1. All the prey constructs along with GBT9 vector showed negligible β-galactosidase activity (Fig. 1). However, PIF1 interacted with all the PIFs as well as with HFR1 (Fig. 1). These data suggest that PIF1 can heterodimerize with all other PIFs and HFR1 in yeast two-hybrid assays. [[FIGURE]]  To verify the interactions using an independent method, we selected PIF1 and PIF3 and co-translated these two proteins using the TnT system as previously described (Huq and Quail CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). GAD:PIF1 and GAD:PIF3 co-immunoprecipitated PIF1 and PIF3, respectively, and this coimmunoprecipitation was more efficient than the GAD control protein (Fig. 2A). Moreover, GAD:PIF1 and GAD:PIF3 robustly co-immunoprecipitated PIF3 and PIF1, respectively. Taken together, these results confirm that the two proteins can form homo-dimer as well as hetero-dimer in vitro. [[FIGURE]]  Homo- and hetero-dimerization among members of PIF family have been previously shown using in vitro methods (Fairchild et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION); however, hetero-dimerization among PIFs has not been shown in vivo. To examine whether PIF1 and PIF3 hetero-dimerize in vivo, we crossed a TAP-PIF1 transgenic line with YFP-PIF3 transgenic plants (Al-Sady et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION) and selected homozygous transgenic plants expressing both proteins. We used anti-GFP antibody to co-immunoprecipitate TAP-PIF1 from extracts prepared from dark-grown seedlings and probed with anti-myc antibody to detect TAP-PIF1. Results show that PIF1 and PIF3 robustly interacted with each other in vivo (Fig. 2B). These data suggest that PIF1 and PIF3 form homo- and hetero-dimers both in vitro and in vivo. Previously, we have shown that PIF1 and PIF3 can bind to DNA in vitro (Huq et al. CITATION; Martinez-Garcia et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). Since PIF1 and PIF3 can bind to DNA separately as homo-dimer, we also investigated whether they can bind to the G-box DNA motif as a hetero-dimer. For this experiment, we used a truncated version of PIF3, which lacks the amino-terminal 308 amino acids but contains the bHLH domain, including the carboxy-terminal portion (ΔNPIF3) (Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION), and GAD:PIF1, for better separation of the hetero-dimer complex. As shown in Fig. 3, GAD:PIF1-GAD:PIF1 homo-dimer and ΔNPIF3-ΔNPIF3 homo-dimer bound to the G-box DNA sequence in a sequence-specific manner as the shifted bands could be competed with the wild type cold probe, but not with the mutated cold probe. Importantly, the presence of a GAD:PIF1-ΔNPIF3 complex which migrates as an intermediate size band between the presumptive ΔNPIF3-ΔNPIF3 homo-dimer and GAD:PIF1-GAD:PIF1 homo-dimer complexes provides evidence that PIF1 and PIF3 can indeed form hetero-dimers that are capable of recognizing the G-box motif in a sequence-specific manner (Fig. 3). Thus, these two factors can bind to DNA as a hetero-dimer, and might control gene expression as both homo- and hetero-dimers. [[FIGURE]]  To understand the biological significance of the interaction between PIF1 and PIF3, we created a pif1pif3 double mutant (Leivar et al. CITATION). Previously, seedling deetiolation phenotypes including chlorophyll and carotenoid contents for the pif1pif3 double mutant have been described (Leivar et al. CITATION; Oh et al. CITATION; Stephenson et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortíz et al. CITATION). Because biological functions of PIFs under blue light have not been examined in depth except for PIF1, PIF4 and PIF5 (Castillon et al. CITATION; Kang and Ni CITATION; Kunihiro et al. CITATION), we focused our analyses on the seedling deetiolation phenotypes under blue light conditions. Recently, we have shown that the pif1 mutant is hypersensitive to discontinuous blue light (12 h light/12 h dark) in both cotyledon opening and repression of hypocotyl growth responses (Fig. 4A, B) (Castillon et al. CITATION). Under these conditions, the pif3 single mutant also displayed stronger cotyledon opening and slightly shorter hypocotyl length phenotypes compared to pif1 and the wild type seedlings (Fig. 4A, B). Furthermore, the pif1pif3 double mutant seedlings displayed an additively enhanced cotyledon opening and shorter hypocotyl phenotypes when compared to the respective single mutants and wild type seedlings (Fig. 4A, B). Under continuous blue light conditions, the cotyledon angle for pif1 was similar to that of wild type as previously observed (Fig. 4C) (Castillon et al. CITATION). However, the pif3 single mutant displayed strongly enhanced cotyledon angle and slightly shorter hypocotyl length phenotypes compared to those of pif1 single and the wild type seedlings (Fig. 4C, D). pif1pif3 double mutant seedlings displayed slightly enhanced cotyledon opening and shorter hypocotyl length phenotypes when compared to pif3 single mutant seedlings, suggesting that pif1 and pif3 phenotypes are additive (Fig. 4C, D). Taken together, these data suggest that PIF1 and PIF3 function additively to repress blue light signaling. [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether blue light-induced degradation of PIFs is specific to PIF1 as observed previously (Castillon et al. CITATION) or whether other PIFs are also regulated under blue light, we investigated PIF3 as a test case. We used a transgenic line expressing YFP-PIF3 fusion protein from the native PIF3 promoter as described previously (Al-Sady et al. CITATION). Western blots using an anti-GFP antibody demonstrated that YFP-PIF3 is rapidly degraded in response to continuous blue light (Fig. 5). Previously, it was shown that YFP-PIF3 is rapidly degraded in response to red and far-red light conditions (Al-Sady et al. CITATION; Al-Sady et al. CITATION). Because PIF3 mRNA level is largely not regulated by blue light (Zimmermann et al. CITATION), these data suggest that, similar to red and far-red light conditions, blue light also induces rapid post-translational degradation of PIF3 to promote photomorphogenesis at the seedling stage. [[FIGURE]]  Because PIF1 is rapidly phosphorylated and poly-ubiquitylated prior to degradation under all three (B, R and FR) light conditions (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION) and because PIF3 is phosphorylated and poly-ubiquitylated under R and FR light conditions (Al-Sady et al. CITATION), we investigated whether PIF3 is also phosphorylated and ubiquitylated under blue light conditions. We used transgenic plants expressing His-PIF3-myc fusion protein from a constitutively active 35S promoter as described previously (Al-Sady et al. CITATION). Seedlings were exposed to continuous blue light (25 μmol m−2 s−1) for 15 min prior to protein extraction, immunoprecipitation and subsequent Western blotting. Results showed PIF3 from blue light exposed samples clearly migrated as two bands compared to PIF3 isolated from dark-grown samples (Fig. 6A, left), suggesting that PIF3 is post-translationally modified under blue light. To demonstrate whether this modification was due to phosphorylation of PIF3, blue light exposed samples were treated with and without alkaline phosphatase (CIAP) as previously performed for PIF1 (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). After phosphatase treatment, the slower mobility band is merged to a single band of lower molecular weight indicating the dephosphorylation of PIF3 (Fig. 6A, right). These results demonstrate that, similar to PIF1, PIF3 is also phosphorylated in response to blue light. [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether PIF3 is also ubiquitylated in response to blue light signals, His-PIF3-myc was immunoprecipiated from plant extracts prepared from dark-grown seedlings or dark-grown seedlings exposed to continuous blue light conditions as described above. Protein blots probed using anti-ubi antibody showed that His-PIF3-myc was also poly-ubiquitylated under blue light conditions as previously observed for PIF1 (Castillon et al. CITATION). Moreover, the poly-ubiquitylated forms are only present in the blue light exposed samples, but not from the dark samples (Fig. 6B). These results along with Fig. 5 suggest that PIF3 is phosphorylated, poly-ubiquitylated and degraded under blue light conditions through the ubi/26S proteasomal pathway. Previously, we have shown that PIF1 interacted with phyA and phyB in response to blue light in yeast two-hybrid assays (Castillon et al. CITATION). To investigate whether PIF3 also interacts with phyA and phyB under blue light, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays using PIF3 and phys in the dark and blue light conditions. Results showed that, similar to PIF1, PIF3 also interacted robustly with both phyA and phyB under blue light conditions (Fig. 7A) (Castillon et al. CITATION). These data suggest that blue light can also induce phys to the active Pfr conformer, which interact with PIF3 in a light-dependent manner as previously observed under red light (Sato et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  To demonstrate that phy-interaction is necessary for the blue light-induced degradation of PIF3, we used transgenic plants expressing wild type PIF3 or a mutant PIF3 in the APA and APB domains that lacks interaction with the Pfr forms of both phyA and phyB as described (Al-Sady et al. CITATION; Al-Sady et al. CITATION). Both wild type and mutant PIF3 were expressed from the native PIF3 promoter as fusion proteins with YFP. Using these transgenic lines, we determined the blue light-induced degradation pattern of the triple mutant form of PIF3 and compared to that of the wild type YFP-PIF3 degradation pattern as previously described (Castillon et al. CITATION). Results showed that under blue light, the rate of degradation of YFP-PIF3 is much higher compared to the YFP-PIF3(mAPAmAPB) degradation rate (Fig. 7B). These data suggest that, similar to PIF1, phy-interaction is necessary for the blue light-induced degradation of PIF3.
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions, light treatments and phenotypic analyses were performed essentially as described (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). Briefly, seeds were rinsed with 70% ethanol and then sterilized with 10% bleach +0.1% SDS for 10 min, washed five times with water and then plated on Murashige-Skoog (MS) growth medium (GM) containing 0.9% agar without sucrose (GM-Suc). After 4 days of stratification at 4º C in the dark, seeds were exposed to 1 h white light at room temperature to induce germination and kept in darkness for 23 h. Then the plates were transferred to growth chambers under blue light conditions for an additional 3 days. Monochromatic blue light treatments were performed in growth chambers equipped with light emitting diodes (LEDs) (Model E30LED, Percival Scientific, Madison, WI) as described (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). Light fluence rates were measured using a spectroradiometer (Model EPP2000, StellarNet Inc., Tampa, FL) as described (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). Adult plants were grown in Metro-Mix 200 soil (Sun Gro Horticulture, Bellevue, WA) under continuous light at 24°C ± 0.5°C in a growth room. For quantitation of hypocotyl length, photographs of seedlings were taken using a digital camera and at least 30 seedlings were measured using the publicly available software ImageJ (1.37v, Wayne Rasband, NIH, http://rsb.info.nih.gov.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/ij/). Experiments were repeated at least three times. For measurements of cotyledon angles, seedlings were gently placed in an adhesive tape facing upwards as described (Castillon et al. CITATION). Cotyledon angles were measured as the angle formed between the two cotyledon tips with the angle tool of ImageJ software. Procedures for the yeast two-hybrid screening and quantitative interaction assays were performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System, Clonetech Laboratories Inc., CA). Full length PIF1 as well as the following PIF1 fragments were cloned into pGBT9 to be assayed as baits: N50 (1–50 aa), N150 (1–150 aa), N280 (1–280 aa), C198 (280–478 aa), C328 (150–478 aa), and C428 (50–478 aa). The C328 fragment was selected as a suitable bait for large scale screening, as this fragment did not show any transcriptional activation activity. A λACT cDNA library was converted to a pACT library according to the procedure described (Durfee et al. CITATION). For the quantitative interaction assays, yeast strain (Y187) was used. All PIFs and HFR1 were cloned into GBT9 (bait) vector as follows: PIF1 (lacking N-terminal 150 amino acids), PIF5, PIF6 and PIF7. Full-length open reading frames for all the PIFs and HFR1 were cloned into pGAD424 to be used as prey. PIF3 (lacking the N-terminal 63 amino acids), PIF4 and full-length HFR1 have been described previously (Fairchild et al. CITATION; Ni et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). Light-inducible yeast-two-hybrid assays were performed essentially as described (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shimizu-Sato et al. CITATION). Briefly, yeast cells (Y187) transformed with different constructs were grown overnight in synthetic dropout media with 25 μM PCB in the dark. After adding YPAD media, these cultures were either kept in the dark or exposed to a pulse of blue light (3,600 μmol m−2) and kept in darkness for additional 3 h before measuring LacZ reporter activity. Protein extraction, immunoprecipitation and Western blotting were performed essentially as described (Castillon et al. CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). Briefly, for each sample 0.02 grams of seeds were sterilized and plated in MS media without sucrose. Seeds were stratified at 4°C for 4 days, exposed to 1 h of white light to induce germination and kept in the dark at 21°C for 4 days. For blue light-mediated degradation, seedlings were exposed to continuous blue light (25 μmol m−2 s−1) for various times as indicated in each figure. 0.2 g of tissue was collected and ground in 1 mL of extraction buffer: 0.1 M Tris–HCl pH 6.8, 20% glycerol, 5% SDS, 0.01 M MG132, 0.2 M DTT, 2 mM PMSF, and 1× proteinase inhibitors (Roche, complete mini, #11836170001) and boiled for 2 min. Samples were run on an 8% SDS–PAGE gel and blotted onto PVDF membrane. YFP-PIF3 was detected using anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen Inc., Carlsbad, CA). For secondary antibody, goat anti-rabbit antibody (KPL Inc., Gaithersburg, MD) in a 1:50,000 dilutions was used, and membranes were developed using KPL Protein Detector LumiGLO Reserve Western Blotting Kit (#54-13-50) (KPL Inc., Gaithersburg, MA). For immunoprecipitation, 4 day-old dark-grown His-PIF3-myc seedlings were transferred into MS-suc liquid media containing 50 μM MG132 and incubated in the dark for 4 h. Total proteins were extracted from ~0.4 g seedlings (either kept in darkness or treated with continuous blue light for the durations indicated in each figure) with 1 mL denaturing buffer (100 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM Tris [pH 8.0], 100 mM NaCl, 8 M urea, 0.05% Tween-20, 1× Protease inhibitor cocktail [F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland], 2 mM PMSF, 10 μM MG132, 25 mM β-GP, 10 mM NaF, 2 mM Na-orthovanadate and 100 nM calyculin A) and cleared by centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C. His-PIF3-myc was immunoprecipitated from supernatants using Ni–NTA magnetic agarose beads (Qiagen Inc., Valencia, CA) following incubation for 3 h at 4°C. The pellets were heated at 65°C in 1× SDS-Laemmli buffer for 5 min, separated on a 6% SDS–PAGE gel, and subjected to Western blot analysis with anti-ubiquitin antibody following the procedure described above. Alikaline phosphatase treatment was performed as described (Shen et al. CITATION). Briefly, His-PIF3-myc was immunoprecipitated from supernatants with Ni–NTA magnetic agarose beads as described above. The pellets were washed with PBS buffer, resuspended in 100 μL Calf Intestinal Alkaline Phosphatase (CIAP) reaction buffer and then treated either with 100 U CIAP (F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland), with the same amount of boiled CIAP or without enzyme for 30 min at 30°C. Pellets were heated at 65°C in 1X SDS-Laemmli buffer for 5 min, separated on a 6% SDS–PAGE gel, and subjected to Western blot analysis with anti-c-MYC antibody following the procedure described above. For in vitro co-immunoprecipitation, PIF1 and PIF3 were co-translated using the TnT system (Promega, Madison, WI) and co-immunoprecipitation assays were carried out as previously described (Huq and Quail CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). For in vivo co-immunoprecipitation assays, YFP-PIF3 expressing transgenic line was crossed into TAP-PIF1 expressed from the endogenous PIF1 promoter and homozygous transgenic plants were selected using antibiotic selection. Generation of the TAP-PIF1 transgenic line is described in (Bu et al. CITATION), and YFP-PIF3 in (Al-Sady et al. CITATION). The in vivo co-immunoprecipitation assays were carried out as previously described (Shen et al. CITATION). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays were performed as described (Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION) (Huq and Quail CITATION; Martinez-Garcia et al. CITATION). Constructs expressing GAD-PIF1 and ΔNPIF3 are described (Huq et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). GAD-PIF1 and ΔNPIF3 were either co-expressed or expressed separately using the Rabbit Reticulocyte TNT system (Promega, Madison, WI). One microliter of the TnT expressed protein was used for each lane. A DNA fragment containing a G-box motif known to be a PIF binding site was labeled with 32P-dCTP (Martinez-Garcia et al. CITATION; Toledo-Ortiz et al. CITATION). A total of 30,000 cpm of labeled probe was used in each lane. The binding conditions and gel compositions are as described (Huq and Quail CITATION).
