!~ABS~! Plant organ development is important for adaptation to a changing environment. Genetic and physiological studies have revealed that plant hormones play key roles in lateral root formation. In this study, we show that MIZU-KUSSEI1 (MIZ1), which was identified originally as a regulator of hydrotropism, functions as a novel regulator of hormonally mediated lateral root development. Overexpression of MIZ1 (MIZ1OE) in roots resulted in a reduced number of lateral roots being formed; however, this defect could be recovered with the application of auxin. Indole-3-acetic acid quantification analyses showed that free indole-3-acetic acid levels decreased in MIZ1OE roots, which indicates that alteration of auxin level is critical for the inhibition of lateral root formation in MIZ1OE plants. In addition, MIZ1 negatively regulates cytokinin sensitivity on root development. Application of cytokinin strongly induced the localization of MIZ1-green fluorescent protein to lateral root primordia, which suggests that the inhibition of lateral root development by MIZ1 occurs downstream of cytokinin signaling. Surprisingly, miz2, a weak allele of gnom, suppressed developmental defects in MIZ1OE plants. Taken together, these results suggest that MIZ1 plays a role in lateral root development by maintaining auxin levels and that its function requires GNOM activity. These data provide a molecular framework for auxin-dependent organ development in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana).
!~RES~! To gain insight into the functions of MIZ1, we generated transgenic plants expressing MIZ1 cDNA driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. MIZ1 mRNA accumulation was examined in these transgenic plants, and the lines OE7 and OE29 were chosen for use in this study (Y. Miyazawa, T. Moriwaki, M. Uchida, A. Kobayashi, and H. Takahashi, unpublished data). Although the MIZ1 loss-of-function mutant miz1-1 showed no defect in root system architecture, plants overexpressing MIZ1 (MIZ1OE) exhibited a short-root phenotype and drastically reduced lateral root formation (Fig. 1A). To understand this phenotype in detail, the root development of MIZ1OE plants was analyzed. Following germination, MIZ1OE plants showed slow root growth kinetics, and their lateral root densities were severely reduced (Fig. 1, B and C). To test that the phenotypes of MIZ1OE plants were dependent on MIZ1 mRNA abundance, we investigated the root phenotype of a more mildly overexpressed line, OE4. MIZ1 mRNA levels of OE7, OE29, and OE4 were 345-, 209-, and 44-fold when compared with the wild type, respectively. Root developmental phenotypes of OE4 were mild when compared with those of OE29 (Supplemental Fig. S1). These results suggested the possibility that the more severe defects in lateral root formation observed in MIZ1OE seedlings corresponded to MIZ1 mRNA accumulation. [[FIGURE]] To determine the stages where lateral root development were disrupted by MIZ1 overexpression, the number and the distribution of LRP at stages I to IV and stages V to emerged were determined. Although there were no significant differences in the total number of LRP among wild-type, miz1-1 mutant, and OE7 seedlings, the density of LRP at stages V to emerged was significantly reduced in OE7 (Fig. 1D). In contrast, the density of LRP at stages I to IV was significantly increased in OE7 roots (Fig. 1D). Therefore, our results suggested that MIZ1 overexpression delayed or suppressed LRP development at stages I to IV but that it did not affect lateral root initiation. Detailed morphological analysis revealed abnormal cell divisions in the LRPs of MIZ1OE plants (Fig. 1G). In contrast to wild-type and miz1-1 mutant plants, MIZ1OE plants exhibited ectopic anticlinal divisions in stage II primordia (Fig. 1, E–G) and also stage I primordia (data not shown), and disorganized LRP were observed frequently (Fig. 1H). However, these ectopic divisions were not observed at late developmental stages, including the stage III and stage IV primordia (Supplemental Fig. S2). This result suggested that lateral root formation was stopped at stages I and II in abnormally shaped primordia observed in MIZ1OE. Thus, MIZ1 might regulate an early developmental stage of lateral root formation, since its overexpression affects this phase specifically. Lateral root formation is promoted by auxin but negatively regulated by cytokinin and abscisic acid (ABA). Ethylene affects lateral root formation in a dose-dependent manner. Genetic analyses have shown that many lateral root development mutants exhibit altered hormonal responses and vice versa (CITATION). To investigate whether the hormonal response was altered in MIZ1OE plants, the effects of various plant hormones on root growth were measured (Fig. 2). The synthetic cytokinin benzylaminopurine (BAP) caused greater inhibition of root growth in MIZ1OE than in the wild type, irrespective of the concentration used (Fig. 2B). The inhibitory effects of cytokinin were similar in OE7 and OE29. In contrast, miz1-1 showed a slightly resistant phenotype for high concentration of BAP (Fig. 2B). Sensitivity to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), a precursor of ethylene, was enhanced in OE7 but not in OE29 (Fig. 2C). In contrast, responsiveness to the synthetic auxin naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and ABA on root growth of MIZ1OE plants was unaltered (Fig. 2, A and D). Therefore, it was suggested that the overexpression of MIZ1 altered the sensitivity to cytokinin on root growth but not that to auxin, ethylene, and ABA. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the relationship among MIZ1, lateral root formation, and cytokinin, we monitored lateral root densities of wild-type, miz1-1, and MIZ1OE seedlings with or without BAP. Lateral root formation was inhibited by cytokinin in wild-type and MIZ1OE seedlings, and miz1-1 was more insensitive to cytokinin on lateral root formation than the wild type (Fig. 2E). In contrast, lateral root formation of two MIZ1OE lines was significantly inhibited when compared with that of the wild type in the presence of 0.1 μm BAP (Fig. 2E). These results indicated that MIZ1 regulates cytokinin-dependent lateral root formation. Since MIZ1 was originally identified as a regulator of root hydrotropism, we investigated whether MIZ1 also regulates lateral root formation under osmotic stress conditions. In the presence of 60 mm mannitol, lateral root densities of the wild type and OE29 were reduced (Supplemental Fig. S3). In contrast, miz1 showed a slight osmotic stress-tolerant phenotype on lateral root formation (Supplemental Fig. S3). These results suggested that MIZ1 also regulates the root system under the stressed conditions. To analyze the mechanisms underlying MIZ1-dependent lateral root development, MIZ1 localization patterns were analyzed using GFP-tagged MIZ1. Transgenic miz1-1 mutants expressing wild-type MIZ1-GFP protein under the control of the native MIZ1 promoter exhibited a normal hydrotropic response (Supplemental Fig. S4). This finding suggests that the MIZ1-GFP fusion protein is a functional equivalent for MIZ1. In the mature region of primary roots, MIZ1-GFP fluorescence was observed in all cell layers (i.e. the epidermis, cortex, endodermis, and stele including pericycle; Fig. 3A). CITATION demonstrated that the promoter activity of MIZ1 was detected in root tips and in the root mature zone. At this point, the reasons for these differences are not clear. However, our generated MIZ1-GFP line could complement miz1, and MIZ1-GFP localization patterns were consistent with the MIZ1 expression patterns predicted from root digital in situ analysis based on microarray studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, we observed four individual lines expressing MIZ1-GFP, and all of them showed equivalent GFP localization patterns (data not shown). For these reasons, we concluded that the generated MIZ1-GFP protein could be used to visualize the localization patterns of native MIZ1 in root tissues. MIZ1-GFP was not expressed in founder cells or LRP of stages II to IV (Fig. 3, B–E). Since MIZ1-GFP was not detected in founder cells, changes in the MIZ1-GFP localization pattern occurred at lateral root initiation (Fig. 3B). MIZ1-GFP was observed in primordia from stage V onward (Fig. 3, F–H), where it was expressed in the boundary region between the LRP and pericycle cells. Since MIZ1 overexpression inhibited lateral root development, LRP development might be activated by a reduction in MIZ1 at the pericycle. [[FIGURE]] Generally, lateral root spacing is tightly regulated; thus, lateral roots are positioned in a right-to-left pattern (CITATION). However, the occasional arrest of LRP development leads to mispositioning of lateral roots (Fig. 4, A and B). To investigate MIZ1-dependent inhibition of LRP development and arrest, we analyzed MIZ1-GFP localization in LRP with retarded development of lateral roots. Although MIZ1-GFP localization was not observed during stages I to IV of normal LRP (Figs. 3, B–E, and 4C), MIZ1-GFP was detected in LRP arrested at an early stage (Fig. 4D). Since MIZ1 overexpression modulated the cytokinin response (Fig. 2), the effects of plant hormones on MIZ1-GFP localization patterns in LRP were examined. As shown in Figure 4E, cytokinin treatment dramatically induced the MIZ1-GFP signal at stage II of LRP development. This observation was consistent with the prediction that excess MIZ1 could inhibit lateral root development via cytokinin activity. In contrast, MIZ1-GFP localization was not affected by treatment with auxin or ACC (Fig. 4, F and G). [[FIGURE]] Because auxin plays an essential role in lateral root development, and cytokinin acts antagonistically to auxin in this process, we tested the effect of auxin on the lateral root formation of MIZ1OE roots. In the presence of various concentrations of NAA, lateral root formation of MIZ1OE was clearly recovered by NAA in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 5A). It is well known that elevated ethylene levels enhance auxin biosynthesis in roots (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether ethylene-stimulated auxin biosynthesis could rescue lateral root formation in MIZ1OE seedlings, the plants were grown in the presence of ACC; lateral root formation was not recovered by ACC treatment (Supplemental Fig. S5). Since MIZ1OE and wild-type plants showed similar responses to ACC on root growth, it is unlikely that MIZ1-dependent lateral root development is related to ethylene-mediated alterations in auxin biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] Previous work reported that exogenous auxin rescues lateral root development in auxin synthesis mutants (CITATION). Therefore, it is possible that endogenous auxin levels are reduced in the roots of MIZ1OE plants; to test this hypothesis, free indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) levels were measured. The free IAA levels in MIZ1OE roots were significantly lower than in the wild type (Fig. 5B). To confirm these results, activity of the auxin response reporter DR5-GFP was observed. The DR5-GFP signal was significantly weaker in both root tips and LRP of OE7 than the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S6). In contrast, maxima of DR5-GFP were correctly established in OE7 (Supplemental Fig. S6). These data support the observation that MIZ1 overexpression reduces IAA accumulation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Furthermore, these results also show that the roots of miz1 plants exhibit a slight but significant elevation in the level of free IAA in comparison with the wild type (Fig. 5B). Thus, it appears that MIZ1 functions as a negative regulator of auxin accumulation in plants. As MIZ1 overexpression impairs auxin accumulation, it is possible that polar auxin transport is also defective in MIZ1OE plants. Polar auxin transport is regulated by the activities of PIN auxin efflux carriers, and defects in the regulation or structure of PIN proteins can lead to the disruption of lateral root formation (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Recent studies show that PIN genes are regulated at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether MIZ1 overexpression influences the regulation of PIN expression, quantitative analyses of PIN gene transcript levels were performed. MIZ1 overexpression or loss of function did not appear to alter the abundance of any of the PIN mRNAs analyzed (Fig. 6A). In wild-type roots, PIN1 localized to the outer periclinal cell side of the LRP and PIN2 localized to the apical sides of epidermal cells and the basal sides of cortical cells in the meristematic region (Fig. 6, B and C; CITATION). Similar polar localization patterns of PIN1 and PIN2 were observed in the roots of MIZ1OE plants (Fig. 6, B and C). These data suggested that MIZ1 overexpression does not affect PIN-mediated auxin transport activity. [[FIGURE]] Vesicle trafficking is also important for lateral root development, and GNOM, an ARF-GEF, plays an important role in the formation of these structures (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). GNOM regulates lateral root formation by modulating PIN polar targeting (CITATION), and recently, we isolated a weak gnom allele, miz2, which lacks a hydrotropic response but shows unaltered root formation and PIN1 localization (CITATION, CITATION). Thus, miz2 represents an interesting tool for investigating GNOM functions other than the regulation of PIN trafficking. In the miz2 mutant, no significant differences in root length or lateral root number were observed (Fig. 7, A and B). Surprisingly, normal root development was also observed in a miz2 mutant overexpressing MIZ1 (miz2 OE7; Fig. 7, A and B). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis showed that the miz2 mutation did not affect MIZ1 expression (Supplemental Fig. S7). Observation of MIZ1-GFP in miz2 indicated that localization patterns of MIZ1-GFP in LRP and its cytokinin-dependent induction were not altered by miz2 mutation (Supplemental Fig. S8, A and B). Because GNOM regulates intercellular vesicle trafficking, we compared the intercellular localization of MIZ1-GFP in the wild type with that in miz2. As a result, no significant difference in MIZ1-GFP localization was detected in the miz2 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S8C). Then, we determined endogenous auxin levels in miz2 OE7 plants, since decreased auxin levels lead to the inhibition of lateral root development in MIZ1OE plants. As a result, significant differences in free IAA levels were not observed among the wild type, miz2, and miz2 OE7 (Supplemental Fig. S9). This result clearly demonstrated that GNOM function is required for MIZ1-dependent auxin control. [[FIGURE]] Phenotypic suppression of the defect in lateral root development in MIZ1OE plants may have been caused by a reduction in GEF activity, which is required for the trafficking of PIN proteins. To examine this hypothesis, MIZ1OE plants were treated with brefeldin A (BFA), an inhibitor of GEF activity of ARF-GEF. However, this defect was not rescued by BFA treatment (Fig. 7, C and D), which suggests that the miz2 mutation does not affect GEF activity. GNOM function is required for basal polarization of PIN proteins, and when seedlings are grown on BFA-containing medium, PIN2 localizes at the apical side of the plasma membrane in cortical cells (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S10A). In contrast, PIN2 localization was unaltered in the miz2 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S10B). Previously, we demonstrated the similar polarity of PIN1 localization in the wild type and the miz2 mutant (CITATION). Thus, these results support the idea that miz2 is not defective in GEF activity. Next, the effects of MIZ1 overexpression on vesicle trafficking were examined in OE7 root cells; however, no significant differences were observed in the internalization of the endocytotic tracer FM4-64 compared with the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S11A). Moreover, BFA treatment induced an aggregation of FM 4-64-labeled endosomes in both the wild type and OE7 (Supplemental Fig. S11B), and no differences were detected in the localization of GNOM-GFP or ARA7-GFP, which are markers of recycling and late endosomes, respectively (Supplemental Fig. S11, C and D). Thus, overexpression of MIZ1 does not interfere directly with endocytotic or endosomal vesicle trafficking activity. Taken together, these observations demonstrated that, in addition to trafficking PIN proteins, GNOM performs novel functions in root development mediated by MIZ1-dependent auxin accumulation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia, mutants, and transgenic plants were used. The ahydrotropic mutants miz1-1 and miz2 were isolated previously (CITATION; CITATION). To generate an overexpression vector, the MIZ1 open reading frame was cloned into pBI121, which placed expression under the control of the 35S promoter. To generate the MIZ1-GFP construct, a fragment of synthetic GFP (sGFP) was fused to the MIZ1 coding sequence. For the GNOM-GFP construct, an sGFP fragment was introduced into the GNOM genomic sequence immediately following the predicted coding sequence (CITATION). These GFP-tagged genes were driven by native promoters. Plants were transformed using the floral dip method, and T4 or T5 generation transgenic seedlings were used. The ProPIN2:PIN2-GFP and ProARA7:ARA7-GFP lines were kindly provided by Dr. C. Luschnig and Dr. T. Ueda, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). The ProPIN1:PIN1-GFP and ProDR5:GFP lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. To introduce MIZ1 overexpression into the miz2 mutant, a transgenic line was crossed with the miz2 mutant. Seeds were surface sterilized with a solution containing 5% (v/v) sodium hypochlorite and 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 and then germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Sigma Chemicals) containing 0.4% Gellan Gum (Sigma). Upon germination, plates were placed vertically under 23°C and continuous light conditions. To measure root length and the emerged lateral root number, seedlings were scanned on a flatbed scanner. Root length was measured using ImageJ 1.40 software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), and the number of emerged lateral roots was determined by counting visible lateral roots on the digital image. The number of LRP was counted using a Nomarski microscope (IX-81; Olympus). Tissues were cleared by direct mounting with choral hydrate. Classification of LRP developmental stages was performed according to CITATION. To determine the sensitivity of root growth or lateral root formation to hormones, 4-d-old seedlings were transferred to fresh half-strength MS medium containing various concentrations of hormones or chemicals. Following the transplantation of seedlings, root tip positions were marked and subsequent root growth was measured after 2 d. To determine the sensitivity to BFA of root growth and lateral root formation, seedlings were germinated and grown on BFA-containing medium. GFP fluorescence was examined using confocal laser scanning microscopy (FV-1000; Olympus) of 5- to 7-d-old seedlings prepared without fixation. To visualize cell wall outlines, seedlings were stained with 10 μm propidium iodide (Molecular Probes). For observation of FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) uptake and the effect of BFA, seedlings were incubated in liquid half-strength MS medium containing 4 μm FM4-64 for the indicated times with or without 50 μm BFA. For hormone and drug treatments, 6-d-old seedlings were transferred to fresh medium containing the appropriate chemicals and grown for 24 h prior to observation. GFP was excited by a 488-nm laser and detected with a band-pass 500- to 550-nm filter. Propidium iodide and FM4-64 were excited by a 543-nm laser and detected with a band-pass 570- to 670-nm filter. GFP fluorescence was quantified as brightness values using the ImageJ software. GFP signals within columella cells including quiescent center cells or the whole region of stage II LRP were enclosed as the region of interest in ImageJ, and averages of brightness values within the region of interest were calculated. Values for background signals were detected from the area of no root in the same image and were subtracted from signal values of GFP. In each experiment, images used for quantification were acquired under the same setting controlled by Fluoview software (Olympus). All GFP images were confirmed so that GFP fluorescence was not saturated by Fluoview software (Olympus). Acquired images were finally assembled in Canvas 11 (ACD Systems of America) and Paint.NET (http://www.paint.net/). RNAs were extracted from 4-d-old seedlings using an RNeasy kit (Qiagen). cDNA was synthesized from 150 to 500 ng of total RNA with the Revertra Ace q-RT-PCR kit (Toyobo). Quantitative PCR was performed using MyiQ (Bio-Rad), and the results were analyzed with iQ5 software (Bio-Rad). Transcript levels were normalized against ACT2 and are expressed as relative values where the transcript level of the wild type was defined as 1. All PCR experiments were carried out using three to five biological and two to three technical replicates. Semiquantitative RT-PCR was performed as described previously (CITATION). MIZ1 and ACT2 transcripts were detected by conventional PCR using 25 and 30 cycles of amplification, respectively. The annealing temperature was 55°C. The following primers were used to quantify gene expression levels: ACT2, 5′-TCAATCTCATCTTCTTCCGC-3′ and 5′-CAATCGTGATGACTTGCCCA-3′; PIN1, 5′-TACTCCGAGACCTTCCAACTACG-3′ and 5′-TCCACCGCCACCACTTCC-3′; PIN2, 5′-GGCGAAGAAAGCAGGAAGA-3′ and 5′-GGTGGGTACGACGGAACA-3′; PIN3, 5′-GAGGGAGAAGGAAGAAAGGGAAAC-3′ and 5′-CTTGGCTTGTAATGTTGGCATCAG-3′; PIN4, 5′-TCATTGCTTGTGGGAACTCT-3′ and 5′-CTGAACGATGGCTATACGGAG-3′; PIN5, 5′-GGAACAAGCTTGACTGTGATGG-3′ and 5′-CGAGCACAGGTAGAGAGACCAA-3′; PIN6, 5′-AGTAAGCATCGGAGGAAGCATAAC-3′ and 5′-CCACGGCGGAGGAGGAAG-3′; PIN7, 5′-ACTCCTCGTCCGTCTAATCTCAC-3′ and 5′-GAAGCCATAGCACAACTCTCCTC-3′; and MIZ1, 5′-TGACTTCTCCGGCGCGTAGC-3′ and 5′-CCAAGCTCCGTTCCACTACC-3′. IAA purification and measurement were performed as described previously by CITATION with the following minor modifications. To extract free IAA from tissues, 6-d-old Arabidopsis roots (10–35 mg fresh weight) were placed in 2.0-mL tubes with 180 μL of cold 80% methanol containing 0.1 mg mL−1 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol and 2.0 to 4.0 ng of [13C6]IAA (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories) as well as a small amount of glass beads. The tubes were sealed and shaken vigorously for 4 min using a Tissue Lyser (Qiagen). After centrifugation at 15,000g for 10 min at 4°C, IAA was purified directly from the supernatant using a HPLC apparatus (LC-10AD, C-R8A; Shimadzu) connected to a fluorescence detector (RF-10A; Shimadzu). Ion-charged HPLC was carried out using a Nucleosil N (CH3)2 column (5 mm i.d. × 100 mm; GL Sciences) at a flow rate of 0.8 mL min−1 with 0.3% acetic acid in methanol. The elution of IAA occurred at approximately 14 min and was monitored at 355 nm following excitation with 280-nm light. From the crude extracts, IAA was quantified with a gas chromatograph-selected ion monitoring-mass spectrometer (QP2010; Shimadzu) coupled to a gas chromatograph (GC-2010; Shimadzu) that was equipped with a capillary column (0.25 mm i.d. × 30 m, film thickness of 0.32 μm; HR-1701; Shinwa Chemical Industries). The injector temperature was set at 250°C, and the flow rate of the helium carrier gas was 1 mL min−1. The column temperature was maintained at 80°C for 1 min and then increased to 280°C at a rate of 30°C min−1. Dried samples were trimethylsilylated with N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyl-trifluoroacetamide at 60°C for 15 min. Ions with mass-to-charge ratios of 202 and 208 (target ions from native IAA and 13C6-labeled IAA internal standard, respectively) and 319 and 325 (qualifier ions and m+ +6 respectively), were monitored. Sequence data from this article can be found in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) under the following accession numbers: MIZ1 (AT2G41660), GNOM (AT1G13980), ACT2 (AT3G18780), PIN1 (AT1G73590), PIN2 (AT5G57090), PIN3 (AT1G70940), PIN4 (AT2G01420), PIN5 (AT5G16530), PIN6 (AT1G77110), PIN7 (AT1G23080), and ARA7 (AT4G19460). The following materials are available in the online version of the article. Supplemental Figure S1. Root developmental phenotype of weak MIZ1OE seedlings. Supplemental Figure S2. Morphological analyses of stage III to emerged LRP in the wild type, miz1-1, and OE7. Supplemental Figure S3. Effect of osmotic stress on lateral root formation in miz1 and MIZ1OE roots. Supplemental Figure S4. GFP-fused MIZ1 protein complements the root ahydrotropic phenotype of miz1-1. Supplemental Figure S5. Ethylene treatment did not rescue lateral root formation in MIZ1OE seedlings. Supplemental Figure S6. DR5-GFP expression in MIZ1OE plants. Supplemental Figure S7. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of MIZ1 gene expression in the wild type, miz2, OE7, and miz2 OE7. Supplemental Figure S8. Relationships between MIZ1 localization and GNOM function. Supplemental Figure S9. Free IAA contents in roots of the wild type, miz2, and miz2 OE7. Supplemental Figure S10. PIN2-GFP localization in BFA-treated wild-type seedlings and mock-treated miz2 seedlings. Supplemental Figure S11. Localization of endocytosis and endosome markers in MIZ1OE seedlings. Supplemental Figure S12. Schematic model of the MIZ1-GNOM-dependent pathway for lateral root development.
