!~ABS~! ► LOV2-linker kinase of Arabidopsis phot1 was prepared. ► The kinase showed a similar photoreaction with LOV2-core. ► The kinase phosphorylated a substrate consisting of the N-terminal part of phot1. ► Amino acid substitution showed activation of the kinase via photoreaction of LOV2.
!~RES~! The molecular weight of Atphot1 H-LOV2-L-KD was estimated by size-exclusion chromatography to be 92kDa (CITATION). This weight is 1.4 times larger than 65kDa predicted from the amino-acid sequence. Recently, a molecular model for the structure in solution of Atphot2 H-LOV2-L-KD with an Asp720Asn substitution has been shown based on small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) CITATION. The shape of the model is elongated and has the major to minor axis ratio of about 2.5. Considering this deviation from the globular structure observed with the analogous molecule, Atphot1 H-LOV2-L-KD can be estimated in a monomeric form in solution. SAXS also showed that the mutated form of Atphot2 H-LOV2-L-KD exists in a monomer CITATION, supporting this interpretation. A small shoulder at the higher molecular weight around 200kDa may be from the dimeric form because both SAXS CITATION and a chemical crosslinking study CITATION showed that LOV2 and LOV2-L of Atphot1 are in a dissociation–association equilibrium between the monomer and the dimer, depending on the concentration. UV–visible absorption spectra of dark-adapted Atphot1 H-LOV2-L-KD solutions showed absorption peaks at 472, 446, 375, and 273nm (CITATION A). These peaks are almost identical with those of Atphot1 LOV2 and LOV2-L solutions CITATION, except for the larger absorption at approximately 280nm from the protein moiety. This finding indicates little effect of KD on the electronic environment around the isoalloxazine ring of the FMN. Atphot1 H-LOV2-L-KD exhibited a characteristic photocycle (CITATIONA and B) with those of the LOV core forming a transient cysteinyl-flavin adduct upon BL excitation. The decay half-time (t 1/2) of S390 to D450 was 59s at 20°C (CITATIONC) and 36s at 25°C with the H-LOV2-L-KD. The other 2 preparations of Atphot1, LOV2-L-KD and G-LOV2-L-KD, also showed photocycles with almost the same t 1/2. The reported t 1/2 values of Atphot1 and LOV2 differed slightly from each other, due to the different preparations, temperatures, and measurement systems. The t 1/2 of the Atphot1 LOV2 core was first reported as 29s at room temperature (25°C) CITATION. Flash photolysis yielded a t 1/2 of 25.7s for both Atphot1 LOV2 and LOV2-L at 20°C CITATION, indicating the small effect of L on the recovery from S390 to D450. In contrast, a small slowing of t 1/2 was observed in H-LOV2-L-KD, suggesting a weak interaction between KD and LOV2 in Atphot1 during recovery. Atphot1 H-LOV2-L-KD and G-LOV2-L-KD were used for the kinase assay. The substrate G-Nt (left 3 lanes in CITATION A) includes a degradation product (black open triangles), as well as the intact polypeptide (black filled triangles). Both the intact G-Nt and the degradation fragment were phosphorylated in a light-dependent manner in the presence of the G-LOV2-L-KD (CITATIONA) or the H-LOV2-L-KD (CITATIONC, WT). It is well known that amino-acid substitution of the conserved Asp in protein kinase A at the active site causes a loss of kinase activity. This inactivation of the kinase has also been reported with Atphot1 CITATION and Atphot2 CITATION. Similarly, substitution of the corresponding Asp788 by Ala in the KD (CITATIONA) abolished the phosphorylation of the substrates for both the G-LOV2-L-KD and the H-LOV2-L-KD (CITATIONB and C, respectively), thereby indicating that the phosphorylation is due to the action of the KD. The phosphorylation disappeared when the Cys512 required for S390 formation is substituted by Ala (CITATION) to prevent the photoreaction of LOV2 (CITATIONC). In contrast, disruption of the LOV1 photoreaction in the substrate by substituting the conserved Cys234 (CITATIONA) by Ala did not alter the phosphorylation at all by either the G-LOV2-L-KD (CITATIONB) or the H-LOV2-L-KD (data not shown). These results indicate that the KD in the LOV2-L-KD was activated by the photoreaction of LOV2 and phosphorylated at the G-Nt. The degree of BL-induced phosphorylation of G-Nt increased according to the light intensity and was saturated at 10μmolm−2 s−1 (CITATIOND). Physiological responses, such as phototropic responses and chloroplast relocation mediated by Atphot1, show a similar dependence on light intensity CITATION, suggesting that the light activation of the Atphot1 kinase in the LOV2-L-KD may be a good system to analyse the correlation between kinase activation and physiological responses. Both G-LOV2-L-KD and H-LOV2-L-KD contain three out of the nine reported autophosphorylation sites CITATION, with two sites being in the KD and the third being in the C-terminal region (CITATIONA). However, their phosphorylation was not detected upon BL illumination (CITATION). Among the three sites, Ser851 in the activation loop of the KD is reported to be crucial for the expression of physiological functions, such as phototropism, stomatal opening, chloroplast movement, and leaf flattening CITATION. The corresponding Thr in the activation loop in protein kinase A is known to be required for full activation. Interestingly, Ser851 in H-LOV2-L-KD prepared without exposure to BL had already been phosphorylated (CITATION , right). In contrast, BL phosphorylated Ser851 of Atphot1 in seedling (CITATION, left). The Ser may have been phosphorylated by either an unknown protein kinase in E. coli or its own kinase without light activation during the preparation. To distinguish these two possibilities, an experiment using Ser851Ala is to be performed. The phosphorylation in G-Nt was increased according to the increased intensity of the BL irradiation, however, the phosphorylation in H-LOV2-L-KD was not detected (CITATIOND). This may be explained by the result that the Ser in the activation loop has already been phosphorylated. Phosphorylation sites in G-Nt may include the reported six sites in this region (CITATIONA). The degradation fragment of G-Nt is expected to have at least five out of the six sites, judging from its molecular mass. Four phosphorylation sites were also determined in vivo with Atphot1 fused to Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) CITATION in which two sites were located in the N-terminal portion and the other two in between the LOV1 and LOV2 domains, which corresponded to four out of six sites in full length Atphot1 CITATION. In contrast to intact Atphot, phosphorylated H-LOV2-L-KD did not shift to a higher molecular weight via SDS–PAGE (compare CITATION right and left). This finding may suggest that the band shift comes from the phosphorylation in the Nt but not from that in the LOV2-L-KD. However, this property remains unclear because the band shift was not observed in the N-terminal substrate (CITATION). In oat phot1, phosphorylation at Ser30 is reported to be responsible for the mobility shift of a LOV1 and LOV2 polypeptide using a protein kinase A assay system CITATION. The Ser30 is conserved as Ser23 in Atphot1; however, it was not identified as an in vivo phosphorylation site CITATION. To uncover the origin of the mobility shift, more studies are required.
!~MM~! DNA of full-length Atphot1 and the Atphot1 LOV2-L-KD (449–996 aa) region (CITATION) were synthesised with the following PCR and oligonucleotide primers: for full-length Atphot1, 5′-GAAAGAATTCATGGAACCAACAGAAAAACC-3′ and 5′-GTTTGAATTCTCAAAAAACATTTGTTTGCA-3′, and for Atphot1 LOV2-L-KD, 5′-GAAAGAATTCGAGAGTGTGGATGATAAA-3′ and 5′-GTTTGAATTCTCAAAAAACATTTGTTTGCA-3′ using Atphot1 cDNA as a template. Amplified DNA was isolated, digested, and cloned into a pGEX4T1 or a pET28a bacterial expression vector (Amersham Pharmacia Biosciences) as a translational fusion with glutathione S-transferase (GST) or an N-terminal His6-tag, respectively. The amino-acid substitutions (Cys512Ala and Asp788Ala) were introduced using a Quick Change site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) following the manufacturer’s instructions, and the mutagenesis was verified by DNA sequencing with a CEQ2000XL DNA analysis system (Beckman Coulter). The N-terminal region construct spanned the N-terminus to the C-terminal end of the junction between LOV1 and LOV2 (1–463) of Atphot1 (Nt, CITATION). A stop codon was introduced into the pGEX-full-length Atphot1 using the following primers: 5′-GAAATGAGAAAGGGTtaaGATCTAGCTACTAC-3′ and 5′-GTAGTAGCTAGATCttaACCCTTTCTCATTTC-3′. For the GST-fusion polypeptides, the Escherichia coli JM109 strain was transformed with each expression plasmid and was grown at 37°C in LB medium containing 50μgml−1 ampicillin for 4h and was incubated with 0.5mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 24h at 20°C in the dark. Bacteria were collected by centrifugation and re-suspended in an extraction buffer containing 50mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.8), 100mM NaCl, 1mM EGTA, 10% glycerol, and 1mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride. The cells were lysed by sonication and centrifuged (100,000g for 30min, 4°C). The supernatant was mixed with a glutathione-Sepharose 4B resin (GE Healthcare). The resin was washed with the extraction buffer containing 5mgml−1 casein and 5mM ATP to remove chaperones. The GST-fusion polypeptides were eluted with 10mM reduced glutathione in the extraction buffer. For the GST-LOV2-L-KD (G-LOV2-L-KD) preparation, the eluted polypeptide was purified with size-exclusion column chromatography (Sephacryl S-200, GE Healthcare). The GST-tag free LOV2-L-KD was prepared with thrombin digestion, which leaves 5 extraneous amino-acid residues (Gly-Ser-Pro-Glu-Phe) at the N-terminus. Thrombin and the cleaved GST-tag were removed with Benzamidine-Sepharose 4B and Ni-affinity columns. GST-Nt (G-Nt) was used without removing the GST tag. For His-tagged LOV2-L-KD (H-LOV2-L-KD), the E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) was transformed with the expression plasmid and was grown at 37°C in LB medium containing 30μgml−1 kanamycin for 6h, and the strain was incubated with 0.02mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 24h at 20°C in the dark. Cells were collected by centrifugation and were resuspended in an extraction buffer containing 20mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 100mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, and 1mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride. The cells were lysed by sonication, and the supernatant was mixed with resin (Ni-Sepharose High Performance, GE). The resin was washed with the extraction buffer containing 30mM imidazole. H-LOV2-L-KD was eluted with buffer containing 500mM imidazole. The eluted polypeptide was purified with size-exclusion column chromatography (Superdex 200pg, GE). All of the purifications were carried out at 0–4°C under a dim red light, and the purified samples were stored at −80°C until use. The purity of the preparations was estimated from Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) staining after SDS–PAGE, is more than 95% pure for H-LOV2-L-KD (CITATIONB), and is approximately 90% pure with LOV2-L-KD. For G-LOV2-L-KD, see the legend to CITATION. H-LOV2-L-KD or G-LOV2-L-KD polypeptides were incubated with G-Nt substrates at 30°C in a kinase reaction buffer containing 20mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.8), 100mM NaCl, 1mM Na2EGTA, and 10% glycerol that contained 10mM MgCl2, 20μM ATP and 37kBq of [γ-32P] ATP. The effect of BL on phosphorylation was measured either by irradiation with a blue LED illuminator (ISL-150X150-88, CCS Inc., Japan, λ max at 475nm) or by mock irradiation. Adding concentrated SDS–PAGE sample buffer followed by boiling for 3min terminated the reaction. All of the procedures were performed under dim red light. Next, the samples were run on SDS–PAGE, and the molecular masses of the bands were estimated by CBB staining. Phosphorylation of the bands was visualised with imaging plates (Fujifilm) and a STORM scanner (GE Healthcare). H-LOV2-L-KD and a crude extract from the 3-day-old etiolated tissues of Arabidopsis line gl1 CITATION were run on SDS–PAGE and were electro-transferred to a PVDF membrane. Blotted proteins were incubated with an anti-Atphot1 phosphoserine 851 polyclonal antibody CITATION or an anti-Atphot1 polyclonal antibody (code No. KAL-KR095, COSMO BIO Co.) and were detected with an ECL kit (GE Healthcare). The molecular weight of H-LOV2-L-KD was estimated by size-exclusion chromatography using a Superdex 200pg HiLoad column and the kinase reaction buffer. UV–visible absorption spectra were recorded with a spectrophotometer (3310, Hitachi-hitec) equipped with a thermoelectric cell holder. Excitation of the sample in the cell was performed with a handmade illuminator with a blue LED (LUXEON star, λ max =465nm) at 50μmolm−2 s−1. BL-excited spectra were recorded in the dark immediately after turning off the blue illumination. Reversion of S390 to D450 in the dark was monitored with absorption changes at 446nm at 20°C or 25°C.
