!~ABS~!  The endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) guides transmembrane proteins to domains that bud away from the cytoplasm. The ESCRT machinery consists of four complexes. ESCRT complexes 0–II are important for cargo recognition and concentration via ubiquitin binding. Most of the membrane bending function is mediated by the large multimeric ESCRT-III complex and associated proteins. Here we present the first in vivo proteome analysis of a member of the ESCRT-III complex which is unique to the plant kingdom. We show with LC–MS/MS, yeast-two-hybrid (Y2H) and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) that coimmunoprecipitated proteins from Arabidopsisthaliana roots expressing a functional GFP-tagged VACUOLAR PROTEIN SORTING 2.2 (AtVPS2.2) protein are members of the ESCRT-III complex and associated proteins. Therefore we propose that at least in plants the large ESCRT-III membrane scaffolding complex consists of a mixture of SNF7, VPS2 and the associated VPS46 and VPS60 proteins. Apart from transmembrane proteins, numerous membrane-associated but also nuclear and extracellular proteins have been identified, indicating that AtVPS2.2 might be involved in processes beyond the classical ESCRT role. This study is the first in vivo proteome analysis with a tagged ESCRT-III component demonstrating the feasibility of this approach and provides numerous starting points for the investigation of the biological process in which AtVPS2.2 is involved.
!~RES~! To reveal if and how the ESCRT-III complex is cooperating with other proteins including potential MVB targets we used transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing a C-terminally GFP-tagged AtVPS2.2 (AtVPS2.2-GFP) under the endogenous promoter as bait for immunoprecipitation studies. Even though it has been shown that a C-terminal fusion to the human SNF7/CHMP4A was able to be integrated into ESCRT-III filaments,CITATION an overexpressed hSNF7.1–GFP fusion inhibits MVB maturation and viral buddingCITATION and the hSNF7.1-GFP filaments had a tighter appearance.CITATION While GFP dimerization was excluded to cause later effect the C-terminal fusion enhanced the interaction.CITATION Therefore the choice for the proteomic approach with an ESCRT-III component was based on the possibility to prove the functionality of the construct. While mutants of AtVPS2.2 exhibit a strong root growth phenotypeCITATION,CITATION mutants of AtVPS2.1 are lethal and the knock out of AtVPS2.3 has a week root growth defect.CITATION Moreover VPS2 is one of the most conserved ESCRT-III components with up to three copies in the genomes of Metazoa, Fungi, Amoebozoa, Viridiplantae, Phodophyta, Apicomplexa, Ciliates, Stramenopiles, Discicristata and Metamonada.CITATION VPS2 is the only ESCRT-III component which has been identified so far by a proteomic approach in plants.CITATION To evaluate the functionality of the AtVPS2.2-GFP construct we first investigated its ability to complement the vps2.2–3 root growth phenotype. Of seven independent transformants with vps2.2–3 background three restored root growth to the level of the AtVPS2.2-GFP expressing wildtype plants (Figure CITATIONA). The expression level and stability of the fusion construct in transgenic seedlings was quantified by Western blots (Figure CITATIONB). Finally, the microscopic analyses show that the AtVPS2.2-GFP is visible primarily in punctuated/vesicular structures of root meristems (Figure CITATIONC, Figure CITATIONB–D,F). AtVPS2.2-GFP complements vps2.2–3 phenotypes and is predominantly expressed in root meristems. (A) Wildtype and vps2.2–3 mutants expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP develop significantly longer roots than untransformed vps2.2–3, substantiating the functionality of the construct (pab < 4.4 × 10–5 for all comparison to vps2.2–3). Yet all transformants develop shorter roots than untransformed wildtype seedlings (pbc < 0.004). Root lengths were determined of at least 20 seedlings 7 days after germination on MS medium supplemented with 4.5% sucrose. The significance was calculated by students t-tests. (B) Stability and prevalent root expression of the AtVPS2.2-GFP fusion protein and the specificity of the GFP-antibody was determined by Western blot analyses loading 75 μg total proteins of wildtype root (wt), of seedlings expressing an unstable GFP-fusion protein (GFP-control), roots and shoot extracts of wildtype seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP. While in the unstable GFP-control extract a degradation product is detectable (star, 26 kD) the AtVPS2.2-GFP fusions (50 kD) are stable. (C) Roots of 14 days old seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP. AtVPS2.2-GFP is predominantly expressed in root meristems. Based on the three criteria supporting the functionality of AtVPS2.2-GFP, root extracts of transgenic seedlings were used for three independent IPs followed by LC–MS/MS analysis (Figure CITATION). To increase the stringency of the analyses root extracts of wildtype and GFP overexpressing seedlings were included as negative controls. In total 89 proteins were isolated (Supplemental Table S1, CITATION). Interactors were defined as specific if they were (i), represented by at least two peptides, (ii) were not pulled down with the negative controls or (iii) the peptide coverage was more than 2-fold enriched in comparison to the negative controls. With these stringent criteria 35 interaction partners of AtVPS2.2 were sorted out (Table CITATION). Strategy to purify and identify AtVPS2.2-GFP interacting proteins. (A) Roots were separated from seedlings, cushed in liquid nitrogen, lysed with cracking buffer on ice and centrifuged to separate cell debris. Anti-GFP μMACS MicroBeads were added to the supernatant, mixed by rotating and after incubation on ice applied onto μ Columns. The eluted proteins were separated on a denaturing 12% (w/v) PAGE and visualized with a LC–MS/MS compatible silver staining protocol. Lanes were excised into up to 29 fractions and subjected to nanoelectrospray LC–MS/MS sequencing. (B) Example of a silver stained PAGE showing the eluates from extracts of control roots (wildtype), transgenes expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP and the eluted beads. Indicated are proteins which have been specifically enriched by this method. Proteins are sorted by abundance of identified peptides. Annotation to cellular compartments and the occurrence in other proteomic analyses are indicated. MW, molecular weight; IP, immunoprecipitation; TMD, transmembrane domain; SP, signal peptide; GPI, GPI anchor; N-Myr, myristoylation site. Not surprisingly two ESCRT-III components (AtVPS2.1, AtSNF7.1) have been successfully pulled down indicating that the C-terminal GFP-tag did not affect the interaction. Yet three ESCRT-III associated proteins AtVPS46.1, AtVPS46.2 and AtVPS60.1 were identified as interactors which have previously not been described to interact with AtVPS2.2 homologues in other systems. To support our findings of the biochemically identified interactions yeast to hybrid (Y2H) and bifluorescence complementation analyses (BiFC) in Arabidopsis protoplasts were carried out and supported some of these novel interactions (Figure CITATION, Supplemental Figure 1A, CITATION). The results indicate that the composition of ESCRT-III complexes might vary and/or diverse ESCRT-III complexes exist with different composition in plants. ESCRT-III components are encoded in the Arabidopsis genome by at least two and the VPS2 gene family by three genes.CITATION Mutant analyses show that AtVPS2.1 is embryo lethal while mutants of AtVPS2.2 and AtVPS2.3 have root growth defects.CITATION In contrast to AtVPS2.1, AtVPS2.2 and AtVPS2.3 did not show a Microtubule Interacting and Transport (MIT)-Interacting Motif (MIM)-dependent interaction with the deubiquitinating enzyme AMSH3. Furthermore in contrast to AtVPS2.1, AtVPS2.2 and AtVPS2.3 did not accumulate in class E compartments induced by overexpression of a dominant-negative AtVPS4/AtSKD1.CITATION In vivo interaction studies of AtVPS2.2 with known and novel interacting partners of the ESCRT-III complex. (A) Yeast two hybrid analyses showing growth assays for homo- and heterodimerization and the autoactivation of the AtVPS60.1 DNA-binding domain fusion. The identity of the cotransformants is indicated on the left, the selective media above and the strength of the interactions on the right. Shown are spotted undiluted and 1:10 diluted cultures. (B) BiFC interactions in Arabidopsis protoplasts demonstrating homo- and heterodimerizations of AtVPS2.2 with AtVPS2.1, AtSNF7.1, AtVPS46.1 and AtVPS60.1. The interactions label vesicles in the cytoplasm and at the plasma membrane. To elucidate if AtVPS2.2 and its interactors are enriched in specific subcellular compartments, the identified proteins were categorized based on gene ontology annotations (Table CITATION). Also secondary structure predictions and post-translational modification motifs characteristic for subcellular localizations were used for the classification such as transmembrane domains, signal peptides and myristoylation signatures (Table CITATION). None of the AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors had signals for GPI-anchors, prenylation or palmitoylation. Only the IBA-response 3 protein contains a myristoylation motif and is annotated as peroxisomal protein. Although the classical function of the ESCRT-III complex in the biogenesis of MVBs suggests that AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors might be targeted to lytic compartments, only four proteins are annotated to vacuoles. Since these proteins are known to be membrane associated they probably locate at the tonoplast. However, 11 AtVPS2.2 interactors have also been identified in five published proteomic studies of isolated vacuoles (Figure CITATION).CITATION−CITATION None of these are classical luminal vacuolar proteins. Subcellular localization of AtVPS2.2 interacting proteins. Venn diagrams of the overlap between AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors and (phosphor-) proteins that have been isolated from membranes and vacuoles. The colored AGI codes of the proteins correspond to the overlapping sectors. The first authors of the publications used for comparison are also color coded. According to the gene ontology annotation eight interactors out of the 35 proteins (23%) are assigned to the plasma membrane/cell plate and/or tonoplast (Table CITATION). They include a member of the water channel protein family, AtPIP1B, and the H+ ATPase 1, AtAHA1. Comparison to published proteomic studies revealed that 20 (57%) interactors have been previously isolated in membrane fractions (Figure CITATION).CITATION−CITATION Half of them were identified also in phosphoproteomes.CITATION−CITATION Apart from the two integral membrane proteins which might be substrates of the ESCRT machinery, six dynamin-related proteins (DRP1A, DRP1B, DRP1C, DRP1E, DRP2A, DRP2B) and PLDα1 were pulled down (Table CITATION). PLDs interact and stimulate dynamin GTP-activityCITATION but interactions of ESCRT-III components with both PLDs and dynamins have not been shown yet. In eukaryotic cells PLDs functions include but are not limited to the endocytic and exocytic pathways where they for example are involved in the generation and fusion of secretory vesicles.CITATION−CITATION In mammalian cells PLDs could be found at sites of the plasma membrane where exocytosis occurs.CITATION−CITATION PLDs facilitate the bending of membranes due to the cone-shaped geometry of their hydrolysis product phosphatidic acid (PA) which induces a negative curvature.CITATION,CITATION Furthermore, the PLD products, phosphatidylserine and PAs, create an acidic environment at the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membraneCITATION,CITATION where the basic surface of ESCRT-III subunits and associated proteins can electrostatically bind. Whitley et al.CITATION identified a specific lysine (K49) on human CHMP3/VPS24 that binds phosphatidylinositol l (3,5)-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2) and which is highly conserved in all SNF7-domain containing ESCRT-III subunits and associated proteins.CITATION Thus it is likely that PLD modified membranes are attracting ESCRT-III subunits. AtPLDα1 is a plant-specific PLD with a polybasic PtdIns(4,5)P2-binding motif, a G-protein interacting motif and a C2 domain which mediates Ca2+-dependent phospholipid-association. AtPLDα1 is present on intercellular membranes and translocates between membranes and the cytosol in response to stress.CITATION AtPLDα1 binds in the same manner as dynamin to PtdIns(4,5)-bisphosphate and it is likely that both are recruited to the same membrane domains. Dynamin oligmers have been visualized with electron microscopy on necks of endocytotic vesicles. The classical view of dynamin mediated membrane fission is that upon narrowing and stretching dynamin oligomeres membranes loose their stability and abscission occurs. Recently it has been shown that long dynamin oligomers are not necessary for membrane fission and it is postulated that limited dynamin assembly rearrange local lipids in such a way that nonleaky fission events can occur.CITATION Therefore it is possible that dynamins support ESCRT-III mediated membrane narrowing and lipid rearrangements at the neck (Figure CITATION). We cannot exclude that the interaction of an ESCRT-III subunit with dynamins is only restricted to the plant specific member of the VPS2 protein family.CITATION An unexpected high fraction of seven AtVPS2.2 interactors are annotated to the nucleus and five more have been isolated in proteome studies of isolated nuclei (Figure CITATION).CITATION,CITATION Although AtVPS2.2-GFP localizes primarily to vesicles of different sizes and at distinct domains of the plasma membrane (Figure CITATIONB–D,F, Supplemental Figure S1B, CITATION), weak GFP signals are also detected in nuclei of root meristems (Figure CITATIONC,D,F). We found AtVPS2.2 specific interactions with nuclear proteins such as histone H2A and five RNA binding proteins including ATP-dependent helicases (EMB1507, EIFA1), a poly (A) binding protein (PABP), a spliceosome subunit (SUS2, abnormal suspensor 2), the nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2) and a putative nuclear RNA-binding protein. These interactions and the localization of AtVPS2.2 raise the possibility that AtVPS2.2 might function in gene regulation as well. AtVPS2.2-GFP localizes to distinct region of the plasma membrane, in cytoplasmic vesicles separated for the trans-Golgi network (TGN) marker VHAa1 and in nuclei of root meristems. (A) Root tips of seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP, (B) root meristems of seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP and the TNG marker VHAa1-mRFP, (C) close up of the marked area in B demonstrating that AtVPS2.2-GFP localizes strongly to the transverse cell borders, to vesicles of different sizes in the cytoplasm and diffusely in the nucleus. (D) Root area at the upper end of the meristem with diffuse nuclear AtVPS2.2-GFP localization. (E) Same root area as in D but labeled with the fluorescent DNA stain, DAPI. (F) Overlay of D and E. (G) Venn diagram of the overlap between AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors and proteins that have been isolated from and annotated to the nucleus. The colored AGI codes of the proteins correspond to the overlapping sectors. The first authors of the publications used for comparison are also color coded. This possibility is further substantiated by earlier findings with the human ESCRT-III associated protein CHMP1/VPS46. CHMP1 has been localized in the nucleus and interacts with the transcriptional repressor polycomb-like protein (Pcl) on condensed chromatin suggesting its role in gene silencing.CITATION Furthermore the human homologue of VPS2, CHMP2, is also known as breast adenocarcinoma 2 (BC-2) marker due to its strong upregulation. BC-2 has been identified in the nuclear matrix to both diffuse and discrete speckles.CITATION Overexpression of CHMP2/BC-2 induces condensed chromatin regions where a PcG complex protein, a predominantely plasma membrane localized small Ras family GTPase, Rac1, and the phosphorylated histone 3 are recruited.CITATION Based on these findings and similar to CHMP1, AtVPS2.2 probably participates also in nuclear events as well. Ten of the AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors have also been isolated in proteome studies aimed to enrich for extracellular proteins of the cell wall, the apoplast and the phloem sap (Figure CITATION).CITATION,CITATION,CITATION None of these extracellular AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors belong to classical secretory proteins. However ESCRT proteins have been recently identified in the proteome of secreted vesicles of archaeal Sulfolobus species.CITATION One explanation is that the mechanism of budding of vesicles in archeae is similar to the release of exosomes and viruses. In both events the ESCRT machinery is involved.CITATION Exosomes are well studied in mammals and function in cell–cell communication.CITATION Even mRNA and miRNA (referred to as exosomal shuttle RNA or esRNA) are transported via exosomes between cells.CITATION,CITATION The exocarta database (http://exocarta.ludwig.edu.au,CITATION) which includes 75 studies on exosome proteomes revealed that apart from the classical exosomal markers related to the ESCRT machinery, TSG101/VPS23 and ALIX also the ESCRT-I components VPS23; VPS28; VPS37A, B, C, D; the ESCRT-II components VPS22, VPS25, VPS36 and the ESCRT-III core and associated proteins CHMP6/VPS20, CHMP2A and B, CHMP3/VPS24, CHMP5/VPS60 and CHMP1A and B and VPS4A and B and VTA1 have been isolated from exosomes. Interestingly all of the other noncanonically secreted proteins of our proteome analyses such as PLDα1, a proteasome subunit (RNP1A/PSMD2), a fructose-biphosphate aldolase, an S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH1/HOG1), heat shock proteins (HSC70–1, HSP70B) and RNA binding proteins (eIF4A1, RPS6) are also present in the exocarta database. Atypical subcellular localization of AtVPS2.2 interacting proteins. Venn diagrams of the overlap between AtVPS2.2-GFP interactors and proteins that have been isolated from and annotated to the apoplast, cell wall and phloem sap. The colored AGI codes of the proteins correspond to the overlapping sectors. The first authors of the publications used for comparison are also color coded. Model how ESCRT-III might mediate vesicle budding and fission in conjunction with dynamins and PLDα. Several dynamins assemble and interact with the ESCRT-III subunit AtVPS2.2 on membrane domains on the inner side of the neck which is acidified by PLDα. This association supports membrane narrowing and lipid rearrangements at the neck of budding vesicles away from the cytoplasm so that membrane fission and fusion occurs. Since AtVPS2.2-GFP interacts also with other ESCRT-III components we propose that at least in plants the large membrane scaffolding complex consists of a mixture of AtSNF7, AtVPS2 and the associated AtVPS46 and AtVPS60 proteins. Dark green, AtVPS20; middle green, AtSNF7; blue, AtVPS2; dark blue, AtVPS24; light yellow, AtVPS46; light gray, AtVPS60; dark gray, PLDα; yellow to orange, dynamins; gray, neutral lipids; red, acidified lipids. Arrows indicate the forces that upon constriction of ESCRT-III and dynamins mediate membrane fission and fusion. In plants secreted ESCRT-III components and interactors have been identified in the apoplastic fluidCITATION and the phloem sap.CITATION On the microscopic level paramural vesicles share some characteristics with MVBs and exosomes.CITATION Such paramural vesicles have recently been detected at fungal penetration sites and during plugging of plasmodesmata between hypersensitive cells and intact neighboring cells.CITATION,CITATION However, further studies are needed for a conclusive demonstration of the involvement of an ESCRT-mediated secretion in plants. Vesicle-mediated transport in the secretory and endocytic pathways involves the assembly of coat protein complexes on the cytoplasmic face of a lipid bilayer.CITATION The ESCRT machinery might function similarly by recruiting and concentrating membrane proteins into microdomains of vesicle buds that are sequestered away from the cytoplasm. While ESCRT-I and II induces initial membrane buds, ESCRT-III subunits form large membrane scaffolding protein complexes of filamentous and spiral appearance which push membranes away from the cytoplasm creating tubes with dome-like caps at the neck.CITATION,CITATION The order and ratio of ESCRT-III subunits is only loosely defined and starts with the myristoylated and membrane inserted VPS20 subunit. Continuous self-assembly of ESCRT-III subunits SNF7, VPS24 and VPS2 inside the tube and neck stabilizes and narrows the membranes and ultimately leads to membrane scission.CITATION In this study, we have identified and established novel partners of the ESCRT-III component AtVPS2.2-GFP, in particular dynamins and PLDα1 which might assist in pinching off vesicular packages from membranes to deliver cargoes to other subcellular or even extracellular compartments. Similar to ESCRT-subunits, dynamins assemble on membrane surfaces and are able to scaffold membranes into cylinders.CITATION,CITATION,CITATION It is known that dynamins bind the cytoplasmic side of the neck upon endocytosis. Endocytosis is a budding process into the cytoplasm and reverse to the process mediated by the ESCRT-III machinery which buds away from the cytoplasm. Nevertheless, we find that dynamins are interacting with the ESCRT-III subunit VPS2.2. Therefore we propose that ESCRT-III and dynamins assemble together on membrane domains that have been modified by AtPLDα1 thereby supporting membrane narrowing and lipid rearrangements at the neck of budding vesicles away from the cytoplasm. It is possible that dynamins bind to the inner side of the ESCRT machinery induced neck which is acidified by PLDα and therefore serves as landing platform for the basic surface of ESCRT-III subunits. This membrane association might support membrane narrowing and lipid rearrangements at the neck of budding vesicles away from the cytoplasm so that membrane fission and fusion occurs. Since AtVPS2.2-GFP interacts also with other ESCRT-III components we propose that at least in plants the large membrane scaffolding complex consists of a mixture of SNF7, VPS2 and the associated VPS46 and VPS60 proteins.
!~MM~! Wild-type accession Columbia (Col) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Stock Centers (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, ABRC, Columbus, USA and European Arabidopsis Stock Center, NASC, Nottingham, UK). Provenance of the vps2–3/hya-3 was described in.CITATION Plant growth conditions on sterile nutrient agar medium were described previously.CITATION Plant transformation was done according to the floral dip protocol of Clough and Bent into wild-type (Col) and mutant vps2.2–3 background.CITATION The MM2d cell suspension culture was obtained from Aventis CropScience and maintained after the protocol of Menges and Murray.CITATION For protoplast transformation, we principally followed the protocol of SheenCITATION with 50 mL of a five day old MM2D culture. Genomic DNA was isolated from seedlings by a modified Cetyltrimethylammoniumbromid (CTAB) method.CITATION A fragment of 3.3 kb from the At5g44560 gene including 2141 bp coding, 644 bp promoter, 124 bp 5′, 175 bp 3′ untranslated and 214 bp 3′ noncoding sequences, was amplified from genomic DNA with primers 5g44560–5Bam and 5g44560–3Bam and cloned into the BamHI site of the pPZP211 plasmid. The final construct (pPZP-AtVPS2.2) was verified by sequencing and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101) by electroporation. For cloning of AtVPS2.2-GFP, a 2807 bp subfragment of pPZP211-AtVPS2.2 was PCR amplified using primer 5g44560_GFP_SacI_pm and 5g44560_GFP_NcoI_R, and subcloned into pCR4-TOPO for sequence verification. Using SacI/NcoI the insert was transferred to the binary GFP-containing vector pGreenII0029–35S-GFP-RL replacing the 35S promoter. The final construct AtVPS2.2-GFP was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101pSoup by electroporation and used to transform wild-type (WS, Col) and hya/vps2.2–2, hya/vps2.2–3 plants. Transformants were selected on MS medium containing kanamycin (100 μg mL–1). The functionality of transgenic lines was determined with root growth measurements on seven day qold seedlings. Protoplasts from the BiFC assays, roots of Col;AtVPS2.2-GFP and the F1 of a cross between Col;AtVPS2.2-GFP and the trans-Golgi network (TGN) marker VHAa1-mRFP were observed under the stereomicroscope (DC500, Leica, Germany) and with the confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) (TCS-SP2 and SP5 II, Leica, Germany). Whole seedlings were mounted either in water or low melting agarose (LM; 1/2 MS, 1% sucrose) on slides with petroleum jelly borders to create a chamber. To visualize the nuclei 5 days old seedlings were fixed in 3.7% formaldehyde in 1× PBT (130 mM NaCl, 10 mM phosphate puffer pH 7.0, 0.1% Tween 20) for 3 h, washed extensively with 40 mL 1× PBT, stained with 1 μg mL–1 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) for 3 min, washed again extensively with 40 mL tap water and mounted. Excitation wavelengths were 405 nm for DAPI, 488 nm (argon laser) for GFP/YFP and 561 nm for mRFP. Emissions were detected between 425 and 480 nm for DAPI, 500–535 nm for GFP, 518–548 nm for YFP and 570–651 nm for mRFP. Images were taken with a long distance 63× water-immersion objective. Pictures were prepared for publication with the Leica LAS AF Lite, ImageJ and Paint Shop Pro 5 software. Roots and shoots of approximately 50 16-days old seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP and a control GFP-construct were harvested lysed with 150 μL cracking buffer (60 mM Tris pH 6.8, 1% 2-mercaptoethanol, 1% SDS; 10% glycerol, 0.01% bromophenol blue) and denatured for 10 min at 95 °C. Fifteen μL of these extracts were loaded on a 12% SDS-PAGE and blotted overnight at 4 °C in 1× TB (50 mM Tris/HCl pH 8.3, 50 mM boric acid) with continuous 30 V on a PVDV membrane (Roth, Germany). The membrane was blocked with 5% low fat milk powder in 1× TBST (20 mM Tris.HCl, pH 7.5 and 137 mM NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20) for 1 h at room temperature. The AtVPS2.2-GFP fusion protein was detected in 1× TBST with anti-GFP (Roche, 1:1000) as primary, antimouse IgG-HRP (horseradish peroxidase) as secondary antibody (Amersham, 1:10000) and by chemiluminescence using Roti-Lumin as substrate (Roth, Germany). For the pull down assays the μMACS epitope tag protein isolation kit was used (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany). Roughly 300 mg roots of 10–14 days old seedlings expressing AtVPS2.2-GFP, wildtype (Columbia) or 35S::GFP were harvested, lysed with 1.5 mL lysis buffer (150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0) supplemented with 50 μL Pefablock (0.2 M, Roth, Germany) and incubated on ice for 30 min. After a second addition of 50 μL Pefablock (0.2 M) and 5 μL DTT (1 M) the solution was cleared from cell debris by centrifugation (10 min at 13.000 rpm at 4 °C). 50 μL anti-GFP μMACS MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) were added to the supernatant, mixed by rotating and incubated for 50 min on ice. Samples were loaded on μ Columns and washed five times with 200 μL wash buffer 1 and the last time with 100 μL wash buffer 2 (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany). The proteins were eluted with 55 μL elution buffer (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) and 15–20 μL were loaded on a 12% PAGE. Proteins were fixed in 50% MeOH and 5% HAc for 20 min and after washing in distilled water overnight, visualized with a LC–MS/MS compatible silver staining protocol.CITATION The gel was sensitized 1 min in 1.2 mM Na2S2O3, washed two times 1 min in distilled water and stained for 20 min in 8.8 mM AgNO3 and 0.25% formaldehyde. After two 1 min washes with distilled water, the protein bands were developed with 188 mM Na2CO3 and 0.04% formaldehyd. Staining was stopped with 5% HAc and stored at 4 °C in 1% HAc. Silver stained samples were used for the nanoelectrospray LC–MS/MS investigations. Selected gel bands were cut for the investigation of the first pull down; in case of the second and third pull downs, whole lanes of the “sample” and “control” were excised and cut into slices. The bands were washed several times with high quality water (Maxima, Elga, U.K.) to remove salts and detergents from the gel. Proteins were reduced by dithiothreitol (DTT - Roche, Germany) and alkylated by iodoacetamide (Sigma-Aldrich, Germany) without extraction. Trypsin (Roche Diagnostics, Germany - recombinant; proteomics grade) was used as protease, the digest was carried out overnight at 37 °C and was stopped by adding 10% formic acid (Merck, Germany) in water to a final concentration in the aliquot of approximately 1%. The HPLC used was an UltiMate system (Dionex Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA) equipped with a PepMap C18 purification column (300 μm × 5 mm) and a 75 μm x 150 mm analytical column of the same material. 0.1% TFA (Pierce Biotechnology Inc., Rockford, IL) was used on the Switchos module for the binding of the peptides and a linear gradient of acetonitrile (Chromasolv, Sigma-Aldrich, Germany), and 0.1% formic acid in water was used for the elution. The gradient was (mobile phase A: 5% acetonitrile/0.1% formic acid in water; mobile phase B: 80% acetonitrile/0.1% formic acid in water): 0% B for 8 min, 50% B in 60 min, 95% B in 1 min, 100% B for 5 min, 0% B in 1 min, 0% B for 20 min. LC–MS/MS analyses were carried out with an LTQ (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Fremont, CA) linear ion trap mass spectrometer. The data acquisition software was XCalibur 2.0.7. (Thermo Fisher Scientfic Inc., Fremont, CA). The nanospray source of Proxeon (Odense, Denmark) was used with the distal coated silica capillaries of New Objective (Woburn, MA). The electrospray voltage was set to 1500 V. Peptide spectra were recorded over the range of m/z 450–1600, MS/MS spectra were recorded in information dependent data acquisition, the default charge state was set to 3; the mass range for MS/MS measurements was calculated according to the masses of the parent ions. One full spectrum was recorded followed by 4 MS/MS spectra for the most intense ions, automatic gain control was applied and the collision energy was set to the arbitrary value of 35. Helium was used as collision gas. The instrument was operated in data dependent modus; fragmented ions were set onto an exclusion list for 20 s. MS/MS spectra were interpreted by Mascot 2.2 (Matrix Science Ltd., London, U.K.) and Scaffold 1.0 or Scaffold 2.0 (Proteome Software Inc., Portland, OR). Peptide tolerance was set to ±2 Da, MS/MS tolerance was set to ±0.8 Da. Carbamidomethylcysteine was set as static, oxidation of methionine residues as variable modification. Number of allowed missed cleavages was set to 2, only fully tryptic peptides were accepted. Raw files acquired from the same lane were merged into one file for the interpretation. Peptide identifications were accepted if they exceeded specific database search engine thresholds. Mascot identifications required at least ion scores greater than both the associated identity scores and 20. X! Tandem identifications required at least −Log (Expect Scores) scores of greater than 2.0. Protein identifications were accepted if they contained at least 2 identified peptides. The database used for Mascot search was the nr protein database of NIH (NCBI Resources, NIH, Bethesda, MD), taxonomy was Arabidopsis. The data of the first two pull down assays were analyzed with the nr database version of 16th Jan 2007, the MS/MS data of the third pull down was searched against the nr database version from 3rd Feb. 2008. Total RNA of roots or cell suspension cultures were used for cDNA synthesis according to Karsai et al.CITATION cDNAs were amplified with primers (Supplemental Table S2, CITATION) suited for in frame cloning into the Y2H vectors pGADT7 and pGBKT7, inserted into pCR4-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) for sequencing and transferred to the two Y2H vectors. For interaction studies the yeast strain pJ69–4a was cotransformed with the AD and BD vectors by the PEG/LiCl heat shock methodCITATION and selected on synthetic drop out medium (SD, Clontech, Mountain View, CA) lacking Leu and Trp at 29 °C. Protein–protein interactions were scored by spotting a liquid SD culture of the positive cotransformants on selective media lacking Trp, Leu and His (-L/-T/-H). The strength of interactions was determined by replating the cotransformants on SD/-T/-L/-H medium with increasing concentrations of the histidine analog 3-amino-1,2,4-triazol (3, 8, 15, and 25 mM At, SIGMA-Aldrich, Germany). Full length cDNAs of SNF7.1 (At4g29160), VPS2.1 (At2g06530), VPS2.2 (At5g44560), VPS46.1 (At1g17730) and VPS60.1 (At3g10640) were PCR amplified with primers suitable for the BD In-Fusion Universal PCR Cloning System (BD BIOSIENCES, France) and recombined into the vectors pUC-SPYNE and pUC-SPYCE.CITATION All constructs were confirmed by sequencing. Empty vector combinations were cotransformed as negative controls. Interactions were scored from three independent transformations with the CLSM. The proteins were classified according to their molecular function as determined on the basis of the available literature and of the gene ontology database in TAIR (www.arabidopsis.org/tools/bulk/go/index.jsp). The percentage of proteins in each category was calculated by normalizing the number of proteins in each group to the total number of different proteins identified from the screen. Signal sites for the secretory pathway (SP), GPI-anchoring (GPI) (http://gpi.unibe.ch/ and http://mendel.imp.ac.at/sat/gpi/gpi_server.html), palmitoylation (http://csspalm.biocuckoo.org/online.php), myristoylation (N-Myr) (http://plantsp.genomics.purdue.edu/plantsp/html/myrist.html and http://mendel.imp.ac.at/myristate/SUPLpredictor.htm) and prenylation (http://mendel.imp.ac.at/sat/PrePS/index.html) were investigated. Moreover, searches were done for transmembrane domains (TMD) (http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/ and http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/index.ep). For comparison with other proteomic analyses the Plant Proteome Database (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/) and the VENNY toolCITATION (http://bioinfogp.cnb.csic.es/tools/venny/index.html) were used.
