!~ABS~! PIP2;1 is an integral membrane protein that facilitates water transport across plasma membranes. To address the dynamics of Arabidopsis thaliana PIP2;1 at the single-molecule level as well as their role in PIP2;1 regulation, we tracked green fluorescent protein–PIP2;1 molecules by variable-angle evanescent wave microscopy and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS). Single-particle tracking analysis revealed that PIP2;1 presented four diffusion modes with large dispersion of diffusion coefficients, suggesting that partitioning and dynamics of PIP2;1 are heterogeneous and, more importantly, that PIP2;1 can move into or out of membrane microdomains. In response to salt stress, the diffusion coefficients and percentage of restricted diffusion increased, implying that PIP2;1 internalization was enhanced. This was further supported by the decrease in PIP2;1 density on plasma membranes by FCS. We additionally demonstrated that PIP2;1 internalization involves a combination of two pathways: a tyrphostin A23-sensitive clathrin-dependent pathway and a methyl-β-cyclodextrin–sensitive, membrane raft–associated pathway. The latter was efficiently stimulated under NaCl conditions. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that PIP2;1 molecules are heterogeneously distributed on the plasma membrane and that clathrin and membrane raft pathways cooperate to mediate the subcellular trafficking of PIP2;1, suggesting that the dynamic partitioning and recycling pathways might be involved in the multiple modes of regulating water permeability.
!~RES~! To monitor PIP2;1 molecules in plant plasma membranes and study their assembly state, it was necessary to label them specifically with a fluorescent species having suitable biophysical characteristics in terms of absorption wavelength and resistance to photobleaching. We performed fluorescence targeting experiments in Arabidopsis using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions. Although some fluorescent signals in transgenic lines driven by the native promoter could be detected by the electron-multiplying charge-coupled device (EMCCD) (see Supplemental Figure 1A and Supplemental Movie 1 online), the signals were weak and fluorescent spots could not be used for single-molecule analysis. Thus, we stably expressed the fusion protein under control of the constitutive 35S promoter. Cells expressing GFP-labeled PIP2;1 (GFP-PIP2;1) were observed to ensure that the GFP insertion did not interfere with PIP2;1 plasma membrane targeting. Figure 1 shows that GFP-PIP2;1 was efficiently targeted to the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis root epidermal cells. Furthermore, the water transport activity of fluorescently tagged PIP2;1 was investigated after functional expression in Xenopus oocytes. Osmotic swelling assays showed that the osmotic water permeability (Pf) of oocytes injected with the GFP-PIP2;1 cRNAs was significantly higher (more than fivefold) than that of control oocytes expressing GFP alone. [[FIGURE]] When the plasma membrane of living root epidermal cells was viewed under EWM, numerous fluorescent spots were observed, most of which appeared as well-dispersed diffraction-limited fluorescent spots. Figure 2A shows a single video frame taken from a 45-s recording of the epidermal cell plasma membrane. To determine the number of GFP-PIP2;1 molecules contained in these diffraction-limited fluorescent spots, we performed calibration experiments using purified monomeric GFP, which was immobilized on cover glasses and visualized with EWM illumination. The brightness of a single GFP molecule could be detected in our measurement apparatus, and the fluorescence intensity distribution of diffraction-limited spots was analyzed. The background-corrected, area-integrated fluorescence intensities of individual spots produced a unimodal distribution with a peak intensity around 70 counts (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the oligomerization state of GFP-PIP2;1 in the plasma membrane of living cells, we analyzed the fluorescence intensity distribution of the GFP-PIP2;1 spots. A histogram of the intensity showed an asymmetric distribution skewed to intensities lower than that expected for four fluorophores (Figure 2B). The majority of spots had intensities ranging from 120 to 250 counts, which were approximately two- or threefold that of purified GFP, suggesting that these spots included two or three GFP-PIP2;1 molecules. To circumvent signal fluctuation due to the diffusion of GFP-PIP2;1 in living cell membranes, the photobleaching of individual spots was further analyzed in fixed cells. For each of the chosen fluorescent spots, we determined, as described previously (CITATION), the number of fluorescing GFP molecules by counting the number of bleaching steps. As shown in Figure 2C, the number of bleaching steps ranged from one to four for the analyzed puncta. We then studied the dynamic properties of PIP2;1 in more detail using single-particle tracking (SPT) in continuous images (Figures 3A and 3B; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). Some molecules covered relatively long distances (up to 0.767 μm within 100 ms), whereas others were less mobile (0.053 μm within 100 ms). The diffusion type was evaluated by analysis of mean square displacement (MSD) versus time plots of the trajectories of individual molecules (Figure 3C). The curve-fitting relationship between MSD and time showed that GFP-PIP2;1 diffusion could be classified into four categories: pure Brownian diffusion (33.75% ± 3.3% of the total trajectories; Figure 4A); directed diffusion (27.5% ± 2.4% of the total trajectories; Figure 4A); pure restricted or confined diffusion (17.5% ± 2.1% of the total trajectories; Figure 4A), with an average confinement range of 87.76% ± 9.4 nm; or diffusion with combinations of Brownian and restricted modes referred to as a mixed trajectory. The proportion of the last category was 21.25% ± 3.1% (Figure 4A), with the mean value of the confinement range (116.83 ± 10.7 nm) generally larger than that of pure restricted trajectories. Although one-third of the PIP2;1 spots had a pure Brownian diffusion, most PIP2;1 molecules were restricted in confinement zones, which were emphasized by the mixed trajectory regime. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The diffusion coefficient of the GFP-PIP2;1 particles was calculated by linear fit to MSD versus time (MSD-t) plots. The distribution of the diffusion coefficients was plotted in a histogram having logarithmically spaced bins (Figure 4B). The data were fitted using Gaussians, the position of the peak (noted as Ĝ) being considered the characteristic diffusion coefficient. Figure 4B shows that Ĝ was around 2.46 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 2.19 to 2.75 × 10−3 μm2/s), with a large dispersion of diffusion coefficients, most of which were between 10−4 μm2/s and 3 × 10−2 μm2/s, indicating that the movement of PIP2;1 was heterogeneous. When the diffusion coefficients and the percentage of different diffusion modes were plotted against the fluorescence intensity (a parameter that tends to reflect the level of GFP-PIP2;1 oligomerization) (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online), we found that the diffusion characters were not directly associated with the fluorescence intensity. We were curious as to whether the dynamic characteristics of GFP-PIP2;1 were general because no such analysis of membrane proteins has been reported in plant cells. Therefore, we compared the behavior of GFP-PIP2;1 and GFP-LTi6a, a small plasma membrane marker protein (see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online). As illustrated in Supplemental Figure 3C online, the diffusion coefficient of GFP-LTi6a ranged from 5.62 × 10−3 to 3.16 × 10−1 μm2/s, with a Ĝ value of 2.37 × 10−2 μm2/s (se 2.06 to 2.73 × 10−2 μm2/s), which is 10-fold that of GFP-PIP2;1. To extract more information about the behavior of individual GFP-LTi6a fluorescent particles, we further analyzed the diffusion mode according to the initial selection criteria described above. Over 50% (51.27% ± 4.4%; see Supplemental Figure 3D online) of the GFP-LTi6a molecules exhibited Brownian diffusion, whereas other GFP-LTi6a molecules underwent directed diffusion and restricted diffusion (25.91% ± 3.9% and 21.53% ± 6.0%, respectively; see Supplemental Figure 3D online). However, almost no mixed trajectory was detected (only one among 77 trajectories). These results show that our analysis was sensitive enough to distinguish the dynamics of two different proteins. Thus, GFP-PIP2;1 exhibited specific dynamic properties. To understand better the molecular mechanisms underlying PIP2;1 partitioning into plasma membrane domains, we treated seedlings with methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MβCD), a sterol disrupting reagent. The subsequent reduction in sterol levels was monitored by cell staining with filipin, a fluorescent polyene antibiotic that binds to sterols. Treatment with 10 mM MβCD resulted in the effective depletion of sterol in root cells by ~30% (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Under confocal laser scanning microscopy and EWM, we found that actin filaments became slightly shorter after treatment with MβCD, whereas the elongation rate and the rate of convolution frequency did not significantly change (see Supplemental Figure 5, Supplemental Movies 3 and 4, and Supplemental Table 1 online), suggesting that MβCD treatment did not significantly affect the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. As shown in Figure 5B, treatment with MβCD induced dramatic changes in the partitioning of GFP-PIP2;1 in the plasma membrane compared with that in control cells (Figure 5A). More specifically, the well dispersed patterns of diffraction-limited spots disappeared. Instead, some particles accumulated into small clusters, which were brighter than diffraction-limited spots (purple circles in Figure 5B). Disappearance of PIP2;1 molecules in certain areas was also observed. We further followed the impacts of fenpropimorph (Fen), a sterol synthesis inhibitor, and dl-threo-1-phenyl-2-palmitoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol (PPMP), a sphingolipid biosynthesis inhibitor, on the localization of GFP-PIP2;1. Both inhibitors resulted in GFP-PIP2;1 coalescing into larger particles with an increased fluorescence intensity (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), similar to the effect of MβCD treatment. These results suggest that the partitioning of PIP2;1 in the plasma membrane depends on membrane lipids and on the sterol content. [[FIGURE]] Because of its multiple diffusion modes and dependency on sterol, we suspected that PIP2;1 localized at least partially to sphingolipid-rich microdomains referred to as membrane rafts (CITATION). To validate this assumption, cells coexpressing GFP-PIP2;1 and mCherry-Flotillin1 (At-Flot1, a marker protein of membrane rafts) were imaged by dual-color EWM. Excitation was switched between two lasers so that the cells were alternatively illuminated with blue (473 nm) and green (561 nm) light, and sequential video frames were obtained. When two consecutive frames representing green and red fluorescence were overlaid, we detected some yellow regions caused by the high intensity in both the green and red channels, suggesting an overlap of the GFP-PIP2;1 and mCherry-Flot1 fluorescent foci. An example of colocalization is shown in Figures 5C to 5E, and the lateral diffusion trajectories of the overlapped fluorescent spots are shown in Figures 5F and 5G. To test the possibility that the colocalization was due to random overlap of the highly dense foci on the cell membrane, the red channel image from four different cells was rotated 180° with respect to the green channel, as reported in a previous investigation (CITATION). The average peak distance for the original image (4.27 ± 1.38 pixels; n = 211 from four cells) was significantly smaller from that of the rotated images (6.82 ± 2.18 pixels; n = 213 from four cells, P < 0.0001), indicating that the colocalization was significant. Tracking the fluorescent spots of GFP-PIP2;1 from their colocalization with mCherry-Flot1 clearly showed that the movements of these GFP-PIP2;1 spots were mainly confined within a specific area, the average displacement of the confined GFP-PIP2;1 being 88.87 ± 8.2 nm (mean ± se; n = 21). These spots also exhibited restricted or mixed trajectory diffusion (Figures 5F and 5G). Within the mixed trajectories, GFP-PIP2;1 exhibited restricted diffusion when it was confined in mCherry-Flot1–rich structures. These results imply that the partitioning of PIP2;1 on membranes is closely related to membrane rafts. The effects of treating roots with 100 mM NaCl on GFP-PIP2;1 cellular dynamics were first investigated using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Whereas homogenous labeling of the plasma membrane by GFP-PIP2;1 was observed under normal conditions (Figure 1D), salt exposure resulted in a discontinuous labeling pattern after 10 min (Figures 6A and 6B); a similar phenomenon was also detected using 200 mM sorbitol as a comparable osmotic stress (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). After staining with FM4-64, a plasma membrane marker, the plasma membrane areas with discontinuous GFP labeling were found to be intact and unperturbed by the salt treatment (Figure 6C). Furthermore, we observed the appearance of intracellular structures containing GFP-PIP2;1 in a restricted number of cells (Figure 6D). Parallel experiments with seedlings expressing GFP-LTi6a, an independent marker of the plasma membrane, showed much less pronounced relocalization of GFP-LTi6a after NaCl and sorbitol treatments (see Supplemental Figures 7B to 7D online). [[FIGURE]] When observed by EWM, salt-treated epidermal cells displayed highly mobile puncta dispersed on the membrane (Figure 6E; see Supplemental Movie 5 online). The dynamic characteristics of GFP-PIP2;1 after treatment with 100 mM NaCl were also investigated using SPT analysis. As illustrated in the histogram of Figure 6F, the diffusion coefficients of GFP-PIP2;1 in NaCl-treated cells ranged mainly from 10−3 to 10−1 μm2/s (1 × 10−4 to 3 × 10−2 μm2/s in control cells); the highest value of 1.94 × 10−1 μm2/s was 2 times higher than in control cells (9.8 × 10−2 μm2/s). More specifically, Ĝ increased to 5.62 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 4.57 to 6.92 × 10−3 μm2/s), more than twofold that of the diffusion coefficient of PIP2;1 in control cells (2.5 × 10−3 μm2/s). To investigate further the behavior of PIP2;1 in living cells exposed to salt, the percentage of different diffusion modes was also analyzed. As shown in Figure 6G, and with respect to normal conditions, Brownian diffusion, directed diffusion, and mixed trajectory decreased to 83.33, 91, and 88% of the control values, respectively, while restricted diffusion increased significantly to 160% compared with control cells (Figure 6G). These changes indicate that in relation to the modified surface and intracellular GFP-PIP2;1 labeling observed under NaCl treatment conditions, diffusion coefficients were skewed toward higher values and more GFP-PIP2;1 molecules underwent restricted diffusion. Endocytosis is a basic cellular process used by cells to internalize a variety of molecules (CITATION). The discovery of clathrin-dependent endocytosis has provided a fundamental paradigm for analyzing membrane trafficking in cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, a sterol-dependent pathway has also been reported to play an important role in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To investigate the pathways that are involved in PIP2;1 trafficking under normal conditions and in its relocalization upon stimulation, we compared the localization of PIP2;1 to that of clathrin light chain (CLC) and Flot1, two commonly used endocytic markers for the clathrin-dependent pathway and membrane raft–associated pathway, respectively. Cells coexpressing GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot1 or GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC were imaged using dual-color EWM. Instead of diffraction-limited fluorescent foci with lateral diffusion on the membranes, we detected green and red particles or clusters that were localized in the cytoplasm region proximal to the plasma membrane and that exhibited movements of departing from membranes. For quantification, two particles were arbitrarily considered as codiffusing when at least one pixel of their fluorescence signals overlapped during at least five consecutive frames acquired within a 200-ms interval. As illustrated in Figure 7, GFP-PIP2;1 was found to colocalize with mCherry-CLC and gradually codiffused away from the focus, indicating that the internalization of PIP2;1 was associated with the clathrin-dependent pathway. As shown in Figure 8, partial colocalization and codiffusion of GFP-PIP2;1 and mCherry-Flot1 were also detected, suggesting that, under normal conditions, the internalization of PIP2;1 was also associated with membrane rafts but to a lesser extent than with clathrin. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To understand at a quantitative level how both recycling pathways contribute to GFP-PIP2;1 internalization, we examined the temporal interactions using live-cell fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy (FCCS). The fluorescence fluctuation of GFP and mCherry gave rise to cross-correlation signals in both seedlings expressing GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC or GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot. The relative cross-correlation amplitude was 0.53 ± 0.11 for GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC, while the value was 0.42 ± 0.13 for GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot1, suggesting that the interaction between GFP-PIP2;1 and mCherry-CLC was stronger than that between GFP-PIP2;1 and mCherry-Flot1, consistent with the results obtained by EWM. When the seedlings were exposed to 100 mM NaCl, the interactions between GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC and GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot1 significantly increased. The relative cross-correlation amplitude was 0.59 ± 0.14 (P < 0.01) and 0.52 ± 0.08 (P < 0.05), revealing that the correlation between GFP-PIP2;1 and endocytic pathways became much stronger under hypertonic stress. Note that the increase in cross-correlation amplitude of GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot1 (23.8%) was higher compared with that of GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC (11.3%). We then investigated the effects on GFP-PIP2;1 movement of tyrphostin A23 (TyrA23), a well-characterized inhibitor of the clathrin-mediated endocytic pathway (CITATION). TyrA23 is thought to block specifically the interaction of endocytic cargo motifs with the clathrin medium chain. This interaction is crucial for establishing a link between the cytosolic domains of membrane proteins to the clathrin coat involved in vesicle formation (CITATION). Exposure of seedlings to TyrA23 led to an overall decrease in GFP-PIP2;1 diffusion coefficients, with Ĝ reduced to 1.59 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 1.41 to 1.78 × 10−3 μm2/s) (Figure 9A; see Supplemental Movie 6 online). The percentage of mixed trajectory after treatment with TyrA23 increased notably to twofold that of untreated control cells at the expense of Brownian and restricted diffusion, which decreased to 46 and 71%, respectively, of those in untreated control cells (Figure 9C). No obvious change in directed diffusion was detected (102% that of untreated control cells). Also, the effects of TyrA23 were found to be reversible; at 20 min after washout, the Ĝ value had increased to 2.20 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 1.88 to 2.58 × 10−3 μm2/s) (see Supplemental Figure 8A online), comparable to that of the control cells. When tyrphostin A51, an analog of TyrA23 that does not interfere with the clathrin–cargo interaction, was used (CITATION; CITATION), the diffusion coefficient of GFP-PIP2;1 did not change (see Supplemental Figure 8B online). The recovery experiment and noneffective analog treatment clearly suggested that the concentrations of TyrA23 used in this study were within the physiological range and its effect is rather specific. [[FIGURE]] Unlike in the presence of TyrA23, the histogram of diffusion coefficients after MβCD treatment showed a broad, bimodal distribution (Figure 9B; see Supplemental Movie 7 online), suggesting the existence of two subpopulations of diffusing GFP-PIP2;1 molecules. One subpopulation would correspond to molecules with a modal diffusion coefficient (Ĝ = 2.51 × 10−3 μm2/s, se 2.32 to 2.73 × 10−3 μm2/s) comparable to that observed under normal conditions. By contrast, most other GFP-PIP2;1 molecules diffused slowly with Ĝ = 1.26 × 10−4 μm2/s (se 1.01 to 1.57 × 10−4 μm2/s), which was ~20 times lower. Among the GFP-PIP2;1 molecules analyzed after MβCD treatment, the percentage of Brownian diffusion declined to 67% of the untreated control cell value, and no obvious changes in the directed diffusion and mixed trajectory were detected (91 and 112% that of untreated control cells, respectively). In contrast with treatment with TyrA23, MβCD treatment increased the restricted diffusion to 164% that of untreated control cells (Figure 9C). These results demonstrate that treatment with TyrA23 and MβCD induced qualitatively different changes in GFP-PIP2;1 dynamic characteristics, suggesting that clathrin-dependent endocytosis and membrane rafts exerted different effects on PIP2;1 membrane movements under normal conditions. The effects of TyrA23 and MβCD were also investigated in cells exposed to the salt treatment. When the roots were pretreated with TyrA23, the Ĝ of GFP-PIP2;1 decreased to 2.95 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 2.62 to 3.33 × 10−3 μm2/s) (Figure 9D; see Supplemental Movie 8 online) (Ĝ = 5.62 × 10−3 μm2/s in the presence of salt alone). Brownian diffusion and restricted diffusion decreased to 78 and 67%, respectively, of the control treatment with salt alone; by contrast, the mixed trajectory increased to 183% of the control treatment with salt alone. No obvious change in directed diffusion was observed (Figure 9F). The tendencies for dynamic changes after treatment with TyrA23 under NaCl exposure were comparable to those after treatment with TyrA23 under normal conditions (cf. Figures 9C and 9F). When the roots were pretreated with MβCD, the bimodal repartition of the diffusion coefficient disappeared and Ĝ decreased to 2.63 × 10−3 μm2/s (se 2.34 to 2.96 × 10−3 μm2/s) (Figure 9E; see Supplemental Movie 9 online). In addition, Brownian diffusion and restricted diffusion decreased to 88 and 78% of the control treatment with salt alone, respectively. While the mixed trajectory increased to 150% of the control treatment with salt alone (Figure 9F), the percentage of directed diffusion was equal to the control treatment with salt alone. The tendencies in dynamic changes after treatment with MβCD under NaCl exposure were different from those after treatment with MβCD under normal conditions. However, they were similar to those after TyrA23 treatment under NaCl exposure, implying that inhibition of clathrin-dependent and membrane raft–associated endocytosis induced similar changes in PIP2;1 movement. To reveal the partitioning of PIP2;1 between the plasma membrane and its recycling pathways, FCS was used to measure the density of GFP-PIP2;1 in the plasma membrane under different conditions. FCS measurement was established by focusing an excitation laser beam onto the membrane and then monitoring fluorescence fluctuations within the focal volume of the laser beam (Figure 10A). Applying the parameters of Equation 4 gave an average density for GFP-PIP2;1 of 30.3 ± 5.1 molecules μm–2 (Figure 10B), indicating that an average of 11.5 GFP-PIP2;1 molecules occupied the 0.38-μm2 area covered in the confocal volume. A higher GFP-PIP2;1 density (40.1 ± 7.2 molecules μm–2; 32% increase with respect to control cells; P < 0.05, t test) was detected after treatment with TyrA23 (Figure 10B), indicating that more GFP-PIP2;1 molecules dwell on the membrane after the inhibition of clathrin-dependent endocytosis. By contrast, the density of PIP2;1 did not significantly change after treatment with MβCD (32.2 ± 5.4 molecules μm–2; P > 0.05), Fen (30.2 ± 7.1 molecules μm–2; P > 0.05), or PPMP (33.8 ± 8.2 molecules μm–2; P > 0.1) (Figure 10B), suggesting that under normal conditions, disturbance of membrane rafts did not alter the amount of GFP-PIP2;1 molecules on the membrane. When the roots were exposed to 100 mM NaCl, the GFP-PIP2;1 density dropped to 14.0 ± 3.2 molecules μm–2 (P < 0.001; Figure 10B), implying that salt exposure induced internalization of PIP2;1. We also measured GFP-PIP2;1 molecular density after disturbing the endocytic pathways prior to exposure to 100 mM NaCl. Under TyrA23 pretreatment, and with respect to 100 mM NaCl alone, the density of GFP-PIP2;1 on plasma membranes significantly increased by ~50% to 21.1 ± 4.4 molecules μm–2 (P < 0.01; Figure 10B). After disrupting the membrane raft–associated endocytic pathway by a MβCD pretreatment, the density also significantly increased to 18.4 ± 3.0 molecules μm–2 (P < 0.01; Figure 10B), >30% higher than that of cells with salt alone. Pretreatments with Fen and PPMP also increased the density of GFP-PIP2;1 to 18.7 ± 7.0 molecules μm–2 (P < 0.01; Figure 10B) and 25.2 ± 6.2 molecules μm–2 (P < 0.0001; Figure 10B). These data indicate that both the clathrin-dependent and raft-associated endocytic pathways influenced endocytosis under 100 mM NaCl exposure conditions. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A GFP-PIP2;1 plant expression vector was constructed as follows. The coding sequence for At-PIP2;1 was PCR amplified using the primers 5′-TCTAGAATGGCAAAGGATGTGGAAGCCGTTC-3′ and 5′-GTCGACTTAGACGTTGGCAGCACTTCTGAAT-3′ and was subcloned as a XbaI-SalI fragment into a modified pCAMBIA2300 vector (CITATION). The mCherry-AtFlot1 and mCherry-CLC (At2g40060) plant expression vectors were constructed with the coding sequences for Flot1 and CLC, which were PCR amplified using specific primer pairs (Flot1, 5′-GGATCCATGTTCAAAGTTGCAAG-3′ and 5′-GAATTCTTAGCTGCGAGTCACTT-3′; CLC, 5′-GGATCCATGTCTGCCTTTGAAGACGATTCCT-3′ and 5′-GAATTCTTAAGCAGCAGTAACTGCCTCAGTG-3′) and subcloned as BamHI-EcoRI fragments into a modified pCAMBIA1200 vector (CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia wild type was transformed with the GFP-PIP2;1, mCherry-Flot1, and mCherry-CLC constructs using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION). The preparation of plants expressing a GFP-LTi6a is described elsewhere (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on solid medium (1% agar), half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin for GFP-PIP2;1, and 70 μg/mL hygromycin for mCherry-Flot1 and mCherry-CLC. Seeds were surface sterilized for 2 min in 70% ethanol, transferred to 5% (w/v) NaClO for 15 min, and then washed five times with sterilized distilled water. Subsequently, they were transferred to a thin layer of solid medium containing half-strength MS salts with 0.7% plant agar. Plants were cultured at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light, 8 h dark) for 4 d. The stock solution of MβCD (Sigma-Aldrich) was prepared in deionized water. TyrA23 (Sigma-Aldrich) was dissolved in 100% DMSO to yield a 50 mM stock solution. The inhibitors were diluted in half-strength MS medium, and the final DMSO concentration was ≤0.1% (v/v) in all EWM analyses. Vertically grown 4-d-old seedlings were incubated in half-strength liquid MS medium containing 50 μM TyrA23 or 10 mM MβCD for 30 min. For the TyrA23 washout experiment, the seedlings were first incubated in half-strength liquid MS medium containing 50 μM TyrA23 for 30 min, transferred to media without TyrA23 for 20 min, then observed under EWM. For the treatment with Fen, seedlings were grown vertically on half-strength MS, 0.7% agar plates with 10 μg/mL Fen for 4 d prior to imaging in half-strength MS media. For treatment with PPMP, the seedlings first grew on half-strength MS agar medium for 2 d and then the 2-d-old seedlings were transferred to MS agar medium with 10 μM PPMP to grow for another 2 d. The effects of NaCl were studied by supplementing the half-strength MS medium with 100 mM NaCl. Parallel experiments with sorbitol were performed by supplementing the half-strength MS medium with 200 mM sorbitol. The effects of TyrA23 and MβCD under 100 mM NaCl exposure were studied by pretreatment with 50 μM TyrA23 or 10 mM MβCD for 30 min followed by incubation in the same solution but supplemented with 100 mM NaCl. After the indicated times, seedlings were transferred to a glass slide with 150 μL of inhibitor solution and covered with a cover slip. For FM4-64 staining, 4-d-old vertically grown seedlings were transferred to 2.5 μM FM4-64 diluted in half-strength MS medium for 3 min after being exposed to 100 mM NaCl for 10 min. Then these seedlings were observed under confocal laser scanning microscopy. An objective-type evanescent wave microscope, which was based on an inverted microscope (IX-71; Olympus) with a total internal reflective fluorescence illuminator and a ×100 oil-immersion objective (Olympus; numerical aperture = 1.45), was used for single-molecule fluorescence imaging. The 473-nm/561-nm laser line from a diode laser (Changchun New Industries Optoelectronics Technology) was used to excite GFP and mCherry. Fluorescence signals were collected by the objective and passed through two filters, a BA 510IF long-pass filter (Chroma) and an HQ525/50 band-pass filter (Chroma), before being directed using a back-illuminated, EMCCD camera (ANDOR iXon DV8897D-CS0-VP; Andor Technology) and high-quality filters (band-pass 525/45 and 609/54 nm). We set the gain of our EMCCD camera at 300 throughout all single-molecule imaging experiments; the setting was in the linear dynamic range of the EMCCD camera. Images were acquired with 100-ms exposure time and analyzed with Image J software (NIH). Time-lapse series of single particles of GFP-PIP2;1 images were taken at up to 200 images per sequence. For the analysis of single-molecule fluorescence intensity in a movie acquired from living cells, the background fluorescence was first subtracted from each frame using the rolling ball method in Image J software. Then, the first frame of each movie was used for fluorescent spot (region of interest) selection. After the image processing, the brightest pixel in each fluorescent spot within the diffraction-limited size (3 × 3 pixels) was determined as the central position, and a square of 3 × 3 pixels was enclosed as a region of interest to calculate the integrated fluorescence intensity with Image J. To analyze dynamic properties, GFP-PIP2;1 foci were tracked using spatially and temporally global particle assignment, described in detail elsewhere (CITATION). We analyzed the MSD of fluorescence-labeled PIP2;1 spots using the following equation:where x0 and y0 are the initial coordinates, and x and y are the coordinates at any given time (CITATION). For calculating the diffusion coefficient, we plotted MSD from each trajectory against time. For each molecule, the slope of the first four time points in the MSD-t plot was used to calculate the diffusion coefficient (D) according to the following equation (CITATION): In the text, the diffusion coefficients correspond to single (or multiple) Gaussian fit(s) of the D-histograms. The se values of the position of the peak (noted as Ĝ) were determined using Origin software (OriginLab) and are given in the form of an upper and lower diffusion coefficient. Determination of the motional modes (Brownian, restricted, directed diffusion, or mixed trajectory) and parameters was performed according to CITATION. For each trajectory, we first linearly fit the MSD. If the MSD-t plot was a straight line with a slope of 4D, it was a typical trajectory for spots undergoing Brownian diffusion. If the MSD-t plot showed a positive or negative deviation from a straight line with a slope of 4D, the motion was determined as directed or restricted diffusion. For the mixed trajectory exhibiting a combination of Brownian and apparent restricted diffusion mode, the trajectory was split, and the MSD of each segment was adjusted with a linear or an exponential curve. In a few cases, no convincing MSD-t fits could be obtained, and the trajectories were rejected. The range of an individual fluorescent spot movement during the time interval (Tn) can be estimated from the following equation: The colocalization algorithm was obtained using the Image J plugins Colocalization Test and Colocalization Threshold of T. Collins and W. Rasband, and BG Subtraction from ROI from M. Cammer and T. Collins (www.uhnresearch.ca/facilities/wcif/imagej). Colocalization was performed as previously described (CITATION). FCS was performed on a Leica TCS SP5 FCS microscope, equipped with a 488-nm argon laser, in-house coupled correlator, and Avalanche photodiode. After acquiring a scan image of cells in transmitted light mode, FCS was performed in the point-scanning mode. The laser focus was placed at the plasma membrane of a cell. The diffusion of fluorophores into and out of the focal volume alters the local concentration of fluorophores and thus leads to spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations. The autocorrelation function G(τ) was calculated with the hardware correlator as [δF(t) δF(t + τ)]/[F(t)]2, where F(t) is the fluorescence fluctuation caused by a particle entering the confocal volume and F(t + τ) is the fluorescence fluctuation by the same particle at time (t + τ). IgorPro software was used to fit the data to the two-dimensional one particle, one-triplet (2D1P1t) models as follows:where N is the number of particles in the observation volume, Ftrip is the fraction of particles in the triplet state, and ttrip is the triplet relaxation time. When the volume element was projected onto a single cell, GFP-labeled PIP2;1 localized in the cell membrane was observed. Thus, the parameter N, which could be obtained by fitting the autocorrelation function, characterized the total number of GFP-PIP2;1 proteins in the cell membrane inside the confocal volume. The dimensions of the observation volume element were defined by the half-axes for length (ωz) and width (ωxy). The waist of the confocal volume ellipsoid was assumed to be situated on the cell membrane such that the highest fluorescence intensity was given. In this case, the surface area on the membrane covered by the focus would be a circular area with a radius equal to ωxy. The circular area covered by the focus volume could be estimated as π(ωxy)2 = π × (0.35 μm)2 = 0.38 μm2. Therefore, the GFP-PIP2;1 density estimated in the confocal volume could be expressed as the total number of GFP-PIP2;1 divided by the area covered as follows: The GFP-PIP2;1 density was obtained from each individual cell membrane. Two random positions were selected once, and an autocorrelation measurement was performed for 20 s each for every single measurement point. Up to six random points were selected in one cell, three cells were chosen in a root, and at least five representative roots were studied for each measurement. For quantitatively evaluating the interaction of GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-Flot1 and GFP-PIP2;1/mCherry-CLC, FCCS was performed. The amplitude of the cross-correlation function was normalized to the amplitude of the autocorrelation function of GFP to calculate the relative cross-correlation ([Gc(0)]/[Gg(0)]), as described in a previous investigation (CITATION). Up to six random points were selected in one cell, five cells were chosen in a root, and at least three representative roots were studied for each measurement. Sequence data from this article can be found in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database under the following accession numbers: PIP2;1 (At3g53420), Flot1 (At5g25250), and CLC (At2g40060). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. EWM Detection of the GFP Fluorescence Signal. Supplemental Figure 2. The Dynamic Characteristics of GFP-Labeled PIP2;1 Spots Plotted against the Fluorescence Intensity. Supplemental Figure 3. Automated Tracking and Statistical Analysis of GFP-LTi6a Spots on the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 4. Sterol Content of Plasma Membranes Labeled with Filipin. Supplemental Figure 5. Organization of the Actin Cytoskeleton in Control (Untreated) and MβCD-Treated Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 6. Characteristics of the GFP-PIP2;1 Partitioning on the Plasma Membrane after Treatment with Fen and PPMP. Supplemental Figure 7. Parallel Experiments Using Seedlings Expressing GFP-PIP2;1 or GFP-LTi6a as a Plasma Membrane Marker and Treated with Salt or Sorbitol as a Comparable Osmotic Stress. Supplemental Figure 8. Distribution of Diffusion Coefficients for GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane of Epidermal Cells after TyrA23 Washout and TyrA51 Treatment. Supplemental Table 1. Comparison of Actin Dynamic Parameters from Control and MβCD-Treated Root Cells. Supplemental Movie 1. Dynamics of GFP-Labeled PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane Driven by the Native Promoter. Supplemental Movie 2. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane under Normal Conditions Detected by EWM. Supplemental Movie 3. Dynamics of the Actin Cytoskeleton in Control (Untreated) Seedlings. Supplemental Movie 4. Dynamics of the Actin Cytoskeleton in MβCD-Treated Seedlings. Supplemental Movie 5. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane under Salt Stress Detected by EWM. Supplemental Movie 6. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane after Treatment with TyrA23 Detected by EWM. Supplemental Movie 7. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane after Treatment with MβCD Detected by EWM. Supplemental Movie 8. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane after Treatment with TyrA23 Coupled with a 100 mM NaCl Stimulus. Supplemental Movie 9. Dynamics of GFP-PIP2;1 on the Plasma Membrane after Treatment with MβCD Coupled with a 100 mM NaCl Stimulus.
