!~ABS~! Transcriptional activities of plants play important roles in responses to environmental stresses. ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR53 (AtERF53) is a drought-induced transcription factor that belongs to the AP2/ERF superfamily and has a highly conserved AP2 domain. It can regulate drought-responsive gene expression by binding to the GCC box and/or the dehydration-responsive element in the promoter of downstream genes. Overexpression of AtERF53 driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter resulted in an unstable drought-tolerant phenotype in T2 transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified a RING domain ubiquitin E3 ligase, RGLG2, which interacts with AtERF53 in the nucleus. The copine domain of RGLG2 exhibited the strongest interacting activity. We also demonstrated that RGLG2 could move from the plasma membrane to the nucleus under stress treatment. Using an in vitro ubiquitination assay, RGLG2 and its closest sequelog, RGLG1, were shown to have E3 ligase activity and mediated AtERF53 ubiquitination for proteasome degradation. The rglg1rglg2 double mutant but not the rglg2 or rglg1 single mutant exhibited a drought-tolerant phenotype when compared with wild-type plants. AtERF53-green fluorescent proteins expressed in the rglg1rglg2 double mutants were stable. The 35S:AtERF53-green fluorescent protein/rglg1rglg2 showed enhanced AtERF53-regulated gene expression and had greater tolerance to drought stress than the rglg1rglg2 double mutant. In conclusion, RGLG2 negatively regulates the drought stress response by mediating AtERF53 transcriptional activity in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Expression patterns of the AtERF53 gene were analyzed under various abiotic stress conditions and hormone treatments using RNA gel-blot analysis with total RNA isolated from 2-week-old Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) plants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium. The expression of AtERF53 could not be detected under normal growth conditions. RNA gel-blot results showed that AtERF53 transcript accumulation was induced within 30 min after exposure to dehydration and salt treatments (Fig. 1A). Under drought and salt treatments, AtERF53 reached its highest transcript level at the 2-h time point. The increase in AtERF53 transcript levels occurred before the increase in COR15B (a putative downstream gene of AtERF53), which was detected 1 h after stress treatment. The RNA gel-blot analysis also showed that the transcript level was not induced within 4 h after application of 100 μm ABA, 100 μm jasmonic acid, or 50 μm 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC; Supplemental Fig. S1), whereas the marker gene (RD29A for ABA treatment and EIN2 for ACC and methyl jasmonate treatments) showed specific induced expression. [[FIGURE]] Histochemical analysis of GUS expression in transgenic plants showed that there was no GUS expression under normal growth conditions. Seven-day-old seedlings and 2- and 5-week-old T2 transgenic plants were analyzed after 1 h of drought treatment and 30 min of rehydration (Fig. 1B). In 7-d-old seedlings, transgenic plants showed weak GUS activity in the shoot apical meristem and vascular tissues in leaves and roots. In 2-week-old transgenic plants, GUS activity was observed in leaves and roots, especially in vascular bundles (Fig. 1B). The GUS activity did not occur in guard cells of leaves (data not shown). In 5-week-old transgenic plants, GUS activity was observed in all tissues examined, with low activity in flowers and siliques (Fig. 1B). Expression was detected in sepals of very young closed buds. When the sepals and petals withered, expression was detected at the bottom of the silique, in the abscission zone, and in the pedicel region below that. Strong GUS expression was observed in the vasculature of most tissues. For subcellular localization of the protein, AtERF53 cDNA was fused in frame to the C-terminal side of the GFP marker gene, and the resulting construct was introduced into protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis together with the construct carrying 35S:NLS-RFP by polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation. The 35S:NLS-RFP construct served as a positive nucleus-targeting control. Green and red fluorescence were detected in nuclei (Fig. 1C). Transgenic Arabidopsis constitutively expressing AtERF53 cDNA (35S:AtERF53) was generated. We compared the drought stress tolerance of the 35S:AtERF53 plants with that of wild-type plants. We found that overexpression of AtERF53 in transgenic plants did not cause improved stress tolerance, suggesting that the AtERF53 protein is unstable or requires posttranslational modification for its activation. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants harboring an AtERF53-GFP construct driven by the 35S promoter were generated in an attempt to determine AtERF53 protein stability in cells. As shown in Figure 2A, the AtERF53-GFP transgene was highly expressed in transgenic plants under normal growth conditions, but the GFP fusion protein was not detected in western-blot analysis (Fig. 2B). The AtERF53-GFP protein was not detected in either roots or leaves under normal growth conditions. However, when these plants were treated with the 26S proteasome inhibitor, MG132, clear GFP fluorescence was observed microscopically in both roots and cotyledons (Fig. 2C). GFP fusion proteins were also detected in the western-blot analysis (Fig. 2D). Although the AtERF53 transgene was expressed under normal growth conditions, the corresponding protein is apparently unstable and may be degraded by the 26S proteasome. [[FIGURE]] A yeast two-hybrid screen was performed to identify proteins that interact with AtERF53. Full-length AtERF53 was fused to the yeast GAL4 DNA-binding domain and used as a bait protein for screening against an Arabidopsis cDNA library (under normal growth conditions) fused to the yeast GAL4 activation domain (AD). Approximately 1.2 × 106 yeast transformants were screened on a synthetic defined (SD) medium lacking Trp, Leu, and His (SD/-T-L-H) plus 1.5 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. Forty-five positive clones were obtained, and the β-galactosidase activity was individually assessed for all of these clones (Supplemental Table S1). Sequence determination from the clone exhibiting the strongest activity identified a C3HC4 RING domain-containing protein, RGLG2 (for RING domain ligase 2; At5g14420). According to a previous study (CITATION), the RGLG2 structure is shown in Figure 3A. RGLG2 proteins contain a so-called copine (or von Willebrand factor type A) domain. Using protein analysis programs such as pfam, no transmembrane domain was indicated (CITATION). Therefore, we designed three different fragments of RGLG2 according to the structure and fused them to the yeast GAL4-AD vector, and each construct was cotransformed into yeast cells with the AtERF53 bait vector. All three kinds of transformed yeast cells could grow well even under several selective conditions (SD/-T-L-H + 20 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole or SD/-T-L-H-A [for adenine]; Fig. 3B). The growth of the yeast cells transformed with negative control vectors was completely inhibited. A β-galactosidase activity assay was performed to verify the interacting activity of the five fragments with the bait mentioned above. The fragment including the copine region of the RGLG2 fragment between amino acids 122 and 424 exhibited the highest β-galactosidase activity (Fig. 3C), supporting this fragment having the strongest interacting activity with AtERF53. And it is sufficient for the protein-protein interaction with AtERF53. This fragment was designed according to the sequence results of yeast two-hybrid screening, suggesting that there might be some posttranscriptional modification of RGLG2 mRNA or posttranslational modification of the RGLG2 protein. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether RGLG1, a sequelog of RGLG2, also interacts with AtERF53, full-length RGLG1 was constructed in the yeast GAL4-AD vector and tested in yeast two-hybrid assays. When the construct was transformed into yeast cells containing empty pGBKT7 or the AtERF53 bait construct, all cells could grow on SD/-L-T plates. But on the selective medium, SD/-L-T-H-A, only yeast cells transformed with the constructs RGLG1-AD and AtERF53-BD or T-AD and 53-BD (positive control provided with the Clontech kit) could grow well (Fig. 3D). To further confirm the interaction between RGLG2 and AtERF53 in vivo, we first checked the subcellular localization of RGLG2 in the protoplasts. The protoplasts were transformed with the 35S:RGLG2-GFP construct by PEG-mediated transformation and observed with fluorescence microscopy. Some GFP signals were observed at the margin of the protoplasts, with lots of accumulated foci in about 43% of transformed protoplasts, and some GFP signals were observed in the nuclei in about 57% of transformed protoplasts (Fig. 4A). To explain this result, we further examined the localization of RGLG2-GFP protein in 35S:RGLG2-GFP transgenic plants under normal conditions and under salt stress. As shown in Figure 4B, RGLG2-GFP translocalized from the plasma membrane into the nucleus under salt stress. [[FIGURE]] In vitro pull-down assays were performed to test the interaction between the full-length RGLG2 protein and AtERF53. RGLG2 was fused to the C terminus of the glutathione S-transferase (GST) tag in the pGEX-6p-1 vector and AtERF53 was fused to the thioredoxin (Trx) tag in the pET32a vector. As a result, the full-length Trx-AtERF53 could be pulled down by GST-RGLG2 (Supplemental Fig. S2). A bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) system was also used to study the interaction between RGLG2/1 and AtERF53 in plant cells (CITATION). RGLG2 was fused to the C-terminal region of the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), and AtERF53 cDNA was fused to the N-terminal region of Venus. The two constructs were cotransfected into Arabidopsis protoplasts. The empty vectors in combination with each fusion construct were also cotransfected into Arabidopsis protoplasts as negative controls. After about 16 h of incubation, yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fluorescence was observed in the nuclei of protoplasts in samples cotransfected with cCFP-RGLG2 and nVenus-AtERF53, whereas samples cotransfected with the empty vector and either cCFP-RGLG2 or nVenus-AtERF53 did not yield any YFP signal (Fig. 4C). The BiFC results of RGLG1 interacting with AtERF53 are also shown in Supplemental Figure S3. YFP signals were also observed in the nuclei. These results suggest that both RGLG2 and RGLG1 colocalize and interact with AtERF53 in nuclei of Arabidopsis protoplasts under stress conditions. We carried out in vitro ubiquitination experiments with the RGLG2 protein to confirm its function as an E3 ligase. Full-length RGLG2 was fused to GST in the pGEX vector. Purified RGLG2-GST fusion protein was mixed with His-tagged ubiquitin, rabbit E1, and human UBCH5c (E2). An immunoblot analysis with anti-ubiquitin showed that ubiquitinated proteins were detected in the presence of all these components (Fig. 5A). Furthermore, an immunoblot analysis with anti-GST showed that RGLG2-GST in the presence of ubiquitin, E1, and E2 was attached to one ubiquitin monomer. As a result, one additional higher molecular weight protein band appeared (Fig. 5B). These results suggest that the RGLG2 protein can be autoubiquitinated in the presence of the E1 and E2 enzymes. As for RGLG1, the ubiquitination assay was also performed to demonstrate its E3 ligase activity using ubiquitin antibody (Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] In order to determine whether RGLG2 and RGLG1 can mediate AtERF53 protein ubiquitination, we also conducted an in vitro ubiquitination assay using AtERF53 protein as a substrate. Full-length AtERF53 was fused to Trx and a His tag in the pET32a vector, and the recombinant fusion protein was purified by the His tag affinity to a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose matrix. An immunoblot analysis with anti-Trx showed that a higher molecular weight shifted band was observed in the presence of ubiquitin, E1, E2, and RGLG2 (Fig. 5C) or ubiquitin, E1, E2, and RGLG1 (Supplemental Fig. S3). The shifted band should correspond to one additional ubiquitin monomer attached to the substrate according to the Mr. RGLG2 mRNAs are rather abundant and ubiquitously expressed but with tissue-specific variations (CITATION). According to the microarray data of the online Arabidopsis eFP browser (http://bbc.botany.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi), Supplemental Figure S4 shows the expression changes of RGLG2 and RGLG1 during drought and salt stress treatments. During earlier drought stress treatment, both genes were slightly down-regulated. This might favor the transient accumulation of TF AtERF53 and thus enable plants to acquire a sufficient amount of effective AtERF53 to activate downstream gene expression. RGLG2’s closest sequelog, RGLG1, was not found by our yeast two-hybrid screening. Their functions are redundant according to CITATION. We hypothesized that RGLG1 also participates in the interaction with AtERF53. The homozygous rglg1rglg2 double mutant showed a bush-like phenotype, completely lacking apical dominance. It also showed significant plant growth retardation and a late-flowering phenotype compared with those of the Col-0 wild type and the two single mutants (Fig. 6A). To test the drought stress tolerance of rglg1rglg2, water was withheld from 2-week-old double mutant and wild-type plants for about 14 to 16 d, and then they were rewatered for 3 to 5 d. The survival rate of the rglg1rglg2 double mutant was 58%, which was significantly higher than that of wild-type plants (2%; Fig. 6B). No significant difference was observed between wild-type plants and single mutants (rglg1 single mutant data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To confirm RGLG2’s and RGLG1’s functions in the stability of the AtERF53 protein, we transformed a 35S:AtERF53-GFP construct into the rglg1rglg2 double mutant and obtained two independent transgenic lines. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR revealed that the transgene expression in both double mutant and wild-type backgrounds was relatively high, whereas AtERF53 was expressed at very low levels under normal nonstressed conditions in wild-type plants (Fig. 7A). Interestingly, green fluorescent signals were observed in nuclei of 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2 but not 35S:AtERF53-GFP/Col-0 plants (Fig. 7C). We performed an immunoblot analysis to detect the GFP or GFP fusion protein in transgenic plants using anti-GFP. A protein band of approximately 67.5 kD, which is the predicted AtERF53-GFP molecular mass, was detected in two independent 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2 transgenic lines (Fig. 7B). However, no GFP fusion protein was detected in two 35S:AtERF53-GFP/Col-0 transgenic lines. [[FIGURE]] To examine the potential AtERF53-regulated genes, the expression of several drought-responsive genes, such as RD29A, RD29B, COR15A, COR15B, and P5CS1 (for Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase 1; Pro synthesis correlated), was tested using real-time PCR in transgenic plants. The expression of COR15B and P5CS1 was compared in two different lines from 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2, 35S:AtERF53-GFP/Col-0, and 35S:RGLG2/rglg1rglg2, and the expression was greater in 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2 than in 35S:AtERF53-GFP/Col-0 and the RGLG2 overexpressor even under nonstressed conditions (Fig. 7D). Drought tolerance tests of rglg1rglg2 double mutants and 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2 transgenic plants were also performed. After withholding water for about 21 d, 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2 transgenic plants showed much greater drought tolerance (67%) than rglg1rglg2 double mutants (21%; Fig. 7E). We also compared the drought tolerance between the wild type, rglg1rglg2 double mutants, and the RGLG2 overexpressor, which is supposed to be like aterf53 knockout mutants. After withholding water for about 14 d, both the wild type and the RGLG2 overexpressor showed a non-drought-tolerant phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S5), while rglg1rglg2 double mutants showed greater drought tolerance than the RGLG2 overexpressor. We have also examined the Pro contents in the wild type, double mutants, and 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg. As shown in Supplemental Figure S6, we observed higher Pro levels in both double mutants and overexpression lines than in the wild-type plants. Moreover, overexpression lines contained more Pro than double mutants. In conclusion, AtERF53 overexpression increases drought tolerance by elevating stress-responsive genes, such as COR15B and P5CS1, and RGLG1/2 negatively regulates drought stress tolerance by mediating AtERF53 ubiquitination. The stable AtERF53-GFP protein accumulation and drought tolerance experiments provide indirect evidence that RGLG1 plays a redundant role of RGLG2 in regulating the function of AtERF53.
!~MM~! Throughout this study, AtERF53 (At2g20880) promoter:GUS, 35S:AtERF53, and 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His transgenic lines were in the Col-0 ecotype of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The promoter of AtERF53 was amplified from Col-0 by the primer pair 5′-AAGTTTAATTGGAATAGCAAG-3′ and 5′-GTGGTTATGAAATATTTTCCCCAC-3′, using a high-fidelity PCR method, and then was inserted into pKGWFS7 to generate the AtERF53 promoter:GUS construct. The AtERF53 coding sequence was amplified by the primer pair 5′-ATGGCTACTGCTAAGAACAAGGG-3′ and 5′-AATTGTATCAGAAGAAGAGT-3′ and was inserted into pB2GW7 and pEarleyGate103 to generate 35S:AtERF53 and 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His transgenic plants, respectively. The constructed plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 cells. Seeds were sown in a 2:2:1 mixture of vermiculite, perlite, and peat moss, incubated in the dark for 2 to 4 d at 4°C, and transferred to a growth chamber for germination. The 35S:AtERF53, 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His, and 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His/rglg1rglg2 transgenic plants were screened with Basta after 2 weeks of incubation. For the AtERF53 promoter:GUS transgenic lines screened on MS medium (pH 5.6) containing 1% Suc, 0.8% phytoagar, and 50 μL L−1 kanamycin, seeds were surface sterilized with 75% ethanol and 7 μL of 30% (v/v) Tween 20 (for 1 mL of ethanol) for 15 min and for another 15 min with 95% ethanol. After removing the 95% ethanol, autoclaved distilled water was added before growing on MS medium. Seedlings were grown under a 16/8-h light/dark photoperiod at 22°C at a light intensity of 100 to 150 μmol m−2 s−1. The rglg1 and rglg2 single mutant and rglg1rglg2 double mutant Arabidopsis plants were obtained from Prof. Andreas Bachmair (CITATION). The 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His construct was introduced into the rglg1rglg2 double mutant to generate 35S:AtERF53-GFP-His/rglg1rglg2 transgenic Arabidopsis plants. For drought treatment, Arabidopsis plants were germinated and grown on a sterilized mesh overlaid on MS agar for 2 weeks. The mesh was removed from the agar and placed on a new petri dish for dehydration. Total RNA or protein was isolated from dehydrated leaves at different time points. For chemical treatments, solutions of 100 μm (±)-ABA (Sigma product no. A-1049), 100 mm jasmonic acid, 50 mm ACC, 10 μm hydrogen peroxide, 300 mm NaCl, and 500 mm mannitol were applied to the surface of solid MS agar medium in which 2-week-old seedlings were growing. Petri dishes were then sealed with Parafilm. Total RNA was isolated with REzol C&T (PROtech Technologies; http://www.bio-protech.com.tw/), and 10 μg of total RNA was separated on a 1.2% formaldehyde agarose gel, blotted onto a positively charged nylon membrane (Roche; http://www.roche.com/), and hybridized at 65°C with full-length AtERF53 coding sequence fragments labeled with digoxigenin-11-dUTP by PCR. The primer sequences were 5′-ATGGCTACTGCTAAGAACAAGG-3′ and 5′-AATTGTATCAGAAGAAGAGTTT-3′. The membrane was washed twice at 65°C for 10 min in 2× sodium chloride/sodium phosphate/EDTA buffer supplemented with 0.1% (w/v) SDS. Hybridization signals were detected by the chemiluminescent reaction with disodium 3-(4-methoxyspiro{1,2,-dioxetane-3,2′-(5′-chloro)tricyclo[3.3.1.1]decan}-4-yl)phenyl phosphate (Roche). The GUS expression patterns of tissues from various organs either from soil-grown transgenic plants or seedlings grown on half-strength MS were analyzed. The GUS staining solution contained 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mg mL−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronic acid (Duchefa; http://www.duchefa.com/), 0.1% Triton, and 0.5 mm each of potassium ferricyanide/ferrocyanide. Samples were vacuum infiltrated for 15 to 30 min and incubated at 37°C for 16 to 24 h. Plant tissues were then fixed in 4% formaldehyde, 50% ethanol, and 5% acetic acid, dehydrated in an ethanol series, and infiltrated with Histo-Clear (International Diagnostics) followed by Paraffin. Observation was conducted with a light microscope (MZ16F; Leica), and an RS Photometrics CoolSNAP camera (DFC490; Leica) was used to take the digital images, with the corresponding IM50 software. GFP fluorescence was observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (TCS SP5 AOBS; Leica). An Arabidopsis cDNA library was prepared in the pGADT7 vector (MatchMaker GAL4 two-hybrid system 3; Clontech; http://www.clontech.com/) using mRNA isolated from 3-week-old plants. Yeast transformation was performed according to the supplier’s instructions (Clontech). β-Galactosidase activity was determined in AH109 yeast report cells as described in the Yeast Protocols Handbook (Clontech). RGLG2 and AtERF53 full-length sequences were cloned into the cCFP and nVenus vectors, respectively. The two vectors were kindly provided by S.B. Gelvin (Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University), with SalI-BamHI and HindIII-EcoRI sites, respectively, after the 35S promoter sequence. Transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts was analyzed following Jen Shen’s laboratory protocol (CITATION). YFP fluorescence was observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica TCS SP5). Recombinant GST fusion proteins were prepared as described in the GE Protocol Handbook (www.gelifesciences.com/protein-purification). Fragments encoding AtERF53 were PCR amplified from drought-treated cDNA with the following primers: 5′-CTCGGATCCATGGCTACTGCTAAGAA-3′ (the BamHI site is underlined and the ATG is boldface) and 5′-ACAGAATTCCTAAATTGTATCAGAAGAAGA-3′ (the EcoRI site is underlined). The PCR fragments were ligated into pGEM-T Easy (Promega; http://www.promega.com/) for DNA sequencing by Tri-I Biotech using an ABI 3730 sequencer (Applied Biosystems). The recombinant plasmids were cut with BamHI and EcoRI and ligated into pGEX-6p-1 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). The resulting plasmids were transformed into Escherichia coli DH5α and then induced by 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside for expression in host BL21 (DE3) cells. Recombinant fusion proteins were affinity purified from bacterial lysates using glutathione-Sepharose (Amersham-Pharmacia) according to the manufacturer’s procedures and then stored at −30°C. The ubiquitination assays were generally performed as described by CITATION. Approximately 500 ng of the RGLG2-GST fusion protein was mixed with 100 ng of rabbit E1 (Enzo Life Sciences; http://www.enzolifesciences.com/), 200 ng of human E2 UBCH5C (Enzo Life Sciences), and 5 mg of ubiquitin (Enzo Life Sciences)/ubiquitin (Sigma-Aldrich; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). The reactions were made in buffer containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 5 mm MgCl2, 2 mm ATP, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 10 mm phosphocreatine, and 1 unit of creatine kinase (Sigma-Aldrich). After incubation at 30°C for 2 h, the reaction was stopped with 2× SDS sampling buffer by boiling at 100°C for 5 min. Ten microliters of each reaction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using a corresponding antibody. To confirm that RGLG2 mediates At2g20880 ubiquitination, the At2g20880-His-Trx fusion protein was affinity purified and 200 ng of the purified protein was incubated together with the ubiquitination mixture for 2 h. The mixture was then subjected to 6% SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. For the anti-GFP immunoblot analysis, the nuclear fraction was prepared according to the methods of CITATION with minor modifications. Eighteen micrograms of protein was loaded and blotted for immunodetection with a monoclonal anti-GFP primary antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology; http://www.scbt.com/). For the drought tolerance test, plants were initially grown on soil under a normal watering regime for 3 weeks. Watering was then halted and observations were made after a further 14 to 16 d without water. When wild-type plants exhibited lethal effects of dehydration, watering was resumed, and the plants were allowed to grow for a subsequent 5 d. The survival rate was scored. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. RNA gel-blot analyses of AtERF53 expression by different hormones. Supplemental Figure S2. In vitro pull-down assays of Trx-AtERF53 protein with GST-RGLG2 fusion protein. Supplemental Figure S3. The interaction and E3 ligase activities of RGLG1 with AtERF53. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression profiles of RGLG1 and RGLG2 on the eFP browser. Supplemental Figure S5. Drought tolerance test of wild-type plants, rglg1rglg2, and 35S:RGLG2/rglg1rglg2 (RG2OE). Supplemental Figure S6. Pro content in wild type, rglg1rglg2, and 35S:AtERF53-GFP/rglg1rglg2. Supplemental Table S1. Positive clones from yeast two-hybrid screening.
