!~ABS~! Calmodulin (CaM) is a ubiquitous sensor/transducer of calcium signals in eukaryotic organisms. While CaM mediated calcium regulation of cytosolic processes is well established, there is growing evidence for the inclusion of organelles such as chloroplasts, mitochondria and peroxisomes into the calcium/calmodulin regulation network. A number of CaM-binding proteins have been identified in these organelles and processes such as protein import into chloroplasts and mitochondria have been shown to be governed by CaM regulation. What have been missing to date are the mediators of this regulation since no CaM or calmodulin-like protein (CML) has been identified in any of these organelles. Here we show that two Arabidopsis CMLs, AtCML3 and AtCML30, are localized in peroxisomes and mitochondria, respectively. AtCML3 is targeted via an unusual C-terminal PTS1-like tripeptide while AtCML30 utilizes an N-terminal, non-cleavable transit peptide. Both proteins possess the typical structure of CaMs, with two pairs of EF-hand motifs separated by a short linker domain. They furthermore display common characteristics, such as calcium-dependent alteration of gel mobility and calcium-dependent exposure of a hydrophobic surface. This indicates that they can function in a similar manner as canonical CaMs. The presence of close homologues to AtCML3 and AtCML30 in other plants further indicates that organellar targeting of these CMLs is not a specific feature of Arabidopsis. The identification of peroxisomal and mitochondrial CMLs is an important step in the understanding how these organelles are integrated into the cellular calcium/calmodulin signaling pathways.
!~RES~! Evidence for calcium/calmodulin regulation in chloroplasts, mitochondria and peroxisomes has been described but so far no CaM has been identified in any of these organelles. Moreover, none of the four isoforms of canonical CaMs encoded in the Arabidopsis genome (AtCaMs) contains a potential targeting signal into any organelle. Nevertheless, plants possess so-called CMLs, variations of the ubiquitous calcium sensor CaM. These proteins display 16–74% sequence identity to canonical CaMs but contain alterations with regard to structural properties as well as N- and C-terminal extensions (Bouche et al. CITATION; McCormack and Braam CITATION; Reddy et al. CITATION; Yang and Poovaiah CITATION). For several of these AtCMLs a potential targeting sequence is predicted by different programs but a clear allocation to a specific organelle cannot be obtained. This had been previously observed for a smaller set of these proteins (Chigri et al. CITATION). Most peroxisomal proteins are targeted by the peroxisomal targeting signal type 1 (PTS1), a C-terminal tripeptide such as SKL or variances thereof (Neuberger et al. CITATION). A slightly diverged PTS1 tripeptide (SNL) is present in AtCML3 (Reumann et al. CITATION) making this a good candidate for a peroxisomal CaM (Fig. 1). With regards to mitochondria, the most promising candidate was AtCML30 (Fig. 1). The protein contains an N-terminal extension of 36 amino acids when compared to the canonical AtCaM1 (Fig. 1) and a majority of prediction programs favour a mitochondrial localization. These proteins were thus chosen for further studies. [[FIGURE]]  To analyse the in vivo localization of AtCML3 and AtCML30, their full length coding sequences were cloned for Agrobacteria-mediated transformation of tobacco leaves (Fig. 2). The proteins were expressed either as a C-terminal (YFP-AtCML3) or N-terminal (AtCML30-YFP) fusion to the coding sequence of YFP. Tobacco leaves were infiltrated with Agrobacteria carrying the various constructs. Protoplasts were isolated after 36 h from transformed leaves and analysed using laser scanning confocal microscopy (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  No clear localization could be observed with full-length AtCML30-YFP (Fig. 2a). The signal pattern is reminiscent of a cytosolic localization with certain denser regions that align with the signal of Mito-Tracker Red, which was used to mark the localization of mitochondria in the cell. Since in vitro translation experiments had indicated that methionines in position 18 and 25 could potentially function as additional translation starts (Figure S1, left panel), a second construct (AtCML30M1) was made exchanging these methionines to isoleucine. The YFP signal of AtCML30M1-YFP could be detected exclusively in a spot like distribution that resembles the pattern found in wild type cell treated with Mito-Tracker (Fig. 2a, bottom panel). When cells transformed with AtCML30M1-YFP were treated with Mito-Tracker, a clear overlay of the YFP and the Mito-Tracker signal could be observed (Fig. 2a, AtCML30M1). This indicates that AtCML30, when translated from the first methionine, is targeted to mitochondria in vivo. When AtCML30Δ1−24-YFP, a construct lacking the first 24 amino acids of AtCML30, was analysed, the protein showed a clear cytosolic distribution supporting that the N-terminal part of AtCML30 contains the information for mitochondrial targeting (Fig. 2a, AtCML30Δ1−24). While these results strongly support a mitochondrial localization of AtCML30, they also suggest that the protein might be dual-targeted to mitochondria and the cytosol by use of alternate translation starts. YFP-AtCML3 showed a spot-like distribution with signals slightly larger in size and less abundant compared to AtCML30. They resemble the signal obtained from cells transformed with a peroxisomal marker protein (mCherry-SKL) (Fig. 2b, bottom panel). When tobacco cells were co-transformed with YFP-AtCML3 and the peroxisomal marker, a clear co-localisation was observed (Fig. 2b, AtCML3). This indicates that AtCML3 is indeed targeted into peroxisomes in vivo. AtCML3 lacking the C-terminal SNL motif was found in the cytosol (Fig. 2b, AtCML3ΔSNL), while the addition of the SNL tripeptide to the C-terminal end of YFP could target this protein into the peroxisomes (Fig. 2b, YFP-SNL). These results confirm the function of the SNL motif for peroxisomal targeting. The localization of AtCML30 in mitochondria was further assessed by in vitro import experiments (Fig. 3). SDS-PAGE analysis of full length AtCML30 translated in the presence of 35S-methionine revealed the presence of several radioactive bands of different molecular masses (Figure S1, lane 1). This indicated a potential translation start at different methionines with the most upper band corresponding to the expected size for full-length AtCML30. The sequence of AtCML30 contains three methionines within the N-terminal part of the protein in position 1, 18 and 25. In vitro translation of constructs with methionines changed to isoleucine confirmed that the different radioactive bands observed for AtCML30 indeed originated from translation starts at these methionines (Figure S1, lane 2 to 4). The right size protein only occurs in the presence of M1 and since the in vivo studies using YFP fusion (Fig. 2a) had already indicated that only the full length protein is targeted into mitochondria, a construct lacking methionines 18 and 25 (AtCML30M1) was used for further studies. [[FIGURE]]  Import experiments into pea leaf mitochondria were performed using the precursor of the alternative oxidase (pAOX) as a control. Successful import and cleavage of the transit sequence is evidenced by the appearance of the processed lower molecular weight form mAOX that is not sensitive to protease treatment (Fig. 3a, lower panel). In case of AtCML30 no processed lower molecular weight form could be detected in the import assays (Fig. 3a, upper panel). Nevertheless, a time-dependent increase of protease protected translation product was observed for AtCML30M1, indicating that the protein had successfully entered the organelle (Fig. 3a, upper panel). Since we could show that the translation product per se is susceptible to proteolytic digestions (Figure S1, right panel), this shows that AtCML30M1 can be imported into mitochondria in a time-dependent manner without cleavage of a transit peptide. Furthermore, AtCML30M1 was imported into mitochondria with disrupted outer membranes (Fig. 3b, Mt*OMs). Under these conditions, protease protection only occurs if proteins are translocated across the inner membrane. As expected, pAOX was imported since it is localized on the matrix side of the inner membrane. Import of AtCML30M1 could also be observed with similar efficiency as pAOX. This indicated that AtCML30M1 enters all the way into the matrix of mitochondria even though the transit peptide is not cleaved. AtCML3 and AtCML30 both posses typical structural properties of CaMs (Fig. 1), specifically the presence of two calcium-binding EF-hand pairs connected by a short linker domain. Nevertheless, they show a higher divergence in sequence compared to CaMs and both contain additional domains since in neither case the targeting signal is removed from the mature protein. To elucidate whether both CMLs could function in a canonical CaM fashion, some typical characteristics were analysed in comparison to bovine brain CaM. The latter can be purchased commercially and is widely used as a canonical CaM. A typical characteristic of CaMs is an electrophoretic mobility shift on polyacrylamid-gels caused by binding of calcium ions (Garrigos et al. CITATION; Maune et al. CITATION). Faster migration on SDS-PAGE in the presence of calcium can clearly be observed for the bovine CaM as well as for AtCML3 (Fig. 4a, left panel). The shift is only minor in case of AtCML30. In contrast, the calcium-induced slower migration on native PAGE at alkaline pH is clearly evident for bovine CaM and AtCML3 as well as for AtCML30 (Fig. 4a, right panel). Thus, both CMLs are able to bind calcium in a manner that alters there gel mobility. The same results were obtained when proteins without a His-tag were used indicating that the binding of calcium to AtCML3 and AtCML30 occurs within the protein itself (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  In case of CaMs, the calcium-induced conformational change results in the exposure of a central hydrophobic surface which is required for interaction with the target proteins (DeFalco et al. CITATION). This property can be analysed by calcium-dependent chromatography on hydrophobic matrices such as Phenyl-Sepharose (Gopalakrishna and Anderson CITATION). For this experiment proteins without His-tag were used to exclude any interference of the tag. As above, the bovine CaM was used as a control. When total extracts of E. coli expressing either AtCML3 or AtCML30 were applied to the column, both proteins bound in the presence of calcium. They could be eluted from the matrix when calcium was replaced by EGTA (Fig. 4b), indicating that a hydrophobic surface is re-buried inside the protein upon removal of calcium. Again, a mobility shift between the calcium-bound and calcium-free form of the proteins could be observed. These experiments show that despite their sequence divergence and their additional domains both AtCML3 and AtCML30 have properties reminiscent of canonical CaMs. Evidence for CaM mediated calcium regulation in peroxisomes and mitochondria has been described in organisms other than Arabidopsis thaliana (Anderson et al. CITATION; Biro et al. CITATION; Bussemer et al. CITATION; Kuhn et al. CITATION; Yang and Poovaiah CITATION). This raises the question to which extent homologues to AtCML3 and AtCML30 can be found within the plant kingdom. In Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCML3 belongs to a small group of CMLs, including AtCML4 and AtCML5, which closely branch together in phylogenetic analyses (McCormack and Braam CITATION). Database searches yielded annotated proteins with strong similarity to AtCML3/4/5 in other plants such as soybean, wine and castor bean. Most of these proteins group closely together with AtCML3 (Figs. 1 and 5). tBlastN searches further revealed CML3-like proteins in Brassica rapa (BrCML3) and Arabidopsis lyrata (AlCML3). The latter one is not displayed since it is 100 % identical to AtCML3. Both, AlCML3 and BrCML3, contain the PTS1 tripeptide for peroxisomal targeting indicating that this feature is at least common among the Cruciferae (Fig. 1) but neither of the other CML3-like proteins contains a PTS1 motif. [[FIGURE]]  Homologues of AtCML30 can be found in many other seed plants and they strongly group together in phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 5). Even more important, all AtCML30-like proteins share the N-terminal extension that our experiments have shown to be essential for mitochondrial targeting (Fig. 1). Strong conservation of the N-terminal extension could furthermore be related to the fact that the targeting sequence is not cleaved off after import into mitochondria and might possess an additional function for the protein. All together, this indicates that mitochondrial localization of CML30-like proteins is common in plants.
!~MM~! For preparation of recombinant proteins, the entire coding sequences of At2G15680 and At3G07490 without stop-codon were cloned into pET21d (Merck Chemicals, Darmstadt, Germany) in frame with a C-terminal 6xHis-tag creating the plasmids pET21d-ATCML30-6His and pET21d-ATCML3-6His. All constructs were expressed in E. coli JM109(DE3) cells by ITPG induction for 3 h at 37°C and purified on Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen GmbH, Hilden Germany) under native conditions in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. For some experiments, identical constructs were used that omitted the C-terminal 6xHis-tag by retention of the stop-codon. Correctness of all constructs was verified by DNA sequencing. For transient expression in tobacco, different At2G15680 variants were cloned into the plant expression vector pBIN19 (Datla et al. CITATION) creating the constructs pBIN19-AtCML30-YFP, pBIN19-AtCML30Δ1−24-YFP and pBIN19-AtCML30M1-YFP. In case of AtCML30M1, the methionines at position M18 and M25 were changed to isoleucine. In addition, the full-length coding sequence of At3G07490 with and without the last three amino acids was cloned into pBIN19 creating the constructs pBIN19-YFP-AtCML3 and pBIN19-YFP-AtCML3ΔSNL. As a control a construct was made fusing the tripeptide SNL directly onto the C-terminus of YFP creating pBIN19-YFP-SNL. Leaves of 3–4 weeks old tobacco plants (Nicotiana benthaminana) were infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens (LBA 1334) carrying the different pBIN19 constructs. Infiltrated leaves were collected after 36 h and used for protoplast isolation as described previously (Koop et al. CITATION). Double transformations were performed with the peroxisomal marker pBIN20-mCherry-SKL (Nelson et al. CITATION). For the detection of mitochondria, protoplasts were incubated for 30 min with 125 nM Mito-Tracker Red CMXRos (Invitrogen, Darmstadt Germany) in the dark. Fluorescence images were obtained using the confocal laser scanning microscope TCS-SP5 (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) and the Leica LAS AF software. For in vitro transcription/translation, the entire coding sequence of At2G15680 as well as constructs containing different ATG (methionine) to ATA (isoleucine) changes were cloned into pSP65 (Promega GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) creating the plasmids pSP65-AtCML30, pSP65-ATCML30M1I, pSP65-AtCML30M18I, pSP65-AtCML30M25I and pSP65-AtCML30M18I/M25I. The plasmid for in vitro transcription/translation of pAOX was a generous gift from Dr. J. Whelan (Whelan et al. CITATION). 35S-labelled protein was produced from the different constructs using the TNT-SP6 coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega GmbH, Mannheim, Germany). Import assays were performed using isolated pea leaves mitochondria and mitochondria with a disrupted outer membrane (Mt*OM) as previously described (Kuhn et al. CITATION). Mobility shift assays were performed as previously described (Maune et al. CITATION) on 12.5% SDS-PAGE or 12% native PAGE, respectively. In short, purified recombinant AtCML30-6His and AtCML3-6His protein was incubated in the presence of either 1 mM CaCl2 or 5 mM EGTA prior to PAGE separation and mobility of the proteins was analysed by Coomassie Blue staining. As a control, commercially purchased bovine brain calmodulin (Alexis Deutschland GmbH, Grünber, Germany) was analysed in an identical fashion. Calcium-dependent chromatography on Phenyl-Sepharose (GE Healthcare Deutschland, Munich, Germany) was based on the method of Gopalakrishna and Anderson (CITATION). Extracts of soluble proteins from E. coli cells expressing AtCML3 and AtCML30 without 6xHis-tag were loaded in PS-buffer (50 mM HEPES–KOH, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl) in the presence of 5 mM CaCl2. After incubation for 2 h at RT the flow-through was collected and the resin washed with several volumes of PS-buffer containing 0.1 mM CaCl2. Bound proteins were eluted with PS-buffer containing 5 mM EGTA. As above, commercially purchased bovine brain calmodulin was used as a control. Sequence alignments were obtained by ClustalX 2.0 (Thompson et al. CITATION) and box-shading was performed by BOXSHADE 3.31 available at http://mobyle.pasteur.fr. Phylogenetic tree construction was performed using tree-puzzle-5.2 (Strimmer and von Haeseler CITATION). Sequences were obtained from the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: NP_198594 (Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCaM1), AAA34013 (Glycine max, GmCaM1), XP_002515603 (Ricinus communis, RcCaM1), NP_179170 (Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCML30), XP_002313848, (Populus trichocarpa, PtCML30), XP_002518773 (Ricinus communis, RcCML30), ACJ86047 (Medicago truncatula, MtCML30), ACU18976 (Glycine max, GmCM30), NP_565996 (Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCML5), NP_172089 (Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCML7), NP_187405 (Arabidopsis thaliana, AtCML7), AC189577 (Brassica rapa, BrCML3), XP_002266441 (Vitis vinifera, VvCML3), XP_002527267 (Ricinus communis, RcCML3), ACU16581 (Glycine max, GmCML3-1), ACU18965 (Glycine max, GmCML3-2).
