!~ABS~! A plastidic serine/threonine protein kinase, initially named plastid transcription kinase (PTK) has been implicated in phosphorylation and redox control of chloroplast transcription. This kinase was later renamed as chloroplast casein kinase 2 (cpCK2) because of its physical and functional similarity to nucleocytosolic casein kinase 2 (ncCK2). It shares all four of its cysteine residues with ncCK2 from land plants, while only three of these residues are conserved in algal CK2‐type sequences, and just two in animals. Using bacterial overexpression of cpCK2 from Arabidopsis thaliana, here we show the principal features of this enzyme and assign functional determinants of its role as a transcriptional regulator in vitro. The recombinant protein is capable of using various plant sigma transcription factors as phosphorylation substrates. Electrophoretic mobility shift DNA‐binding assays reveal differential effects of sigma phosphorylation, depending on the factor and the promoter used. Treatment of the kinase with redox‐active reagents indicate a critical involvement of thiol groups in both its enzymatic activity and interaction capabilities. Mutational exchanges of cysteine to serine residues, in combination with in vitro assays, have provided clues to the possible role of individual cysteines. For instance, while Cys4 but not Cys2 is essential for activity, the latter seems to be involved in the formation of intermolecular (regulatory) disulfide bonds.  Structured digital abstract  cpCK2 phosphorylates SaSig2 by protein kinase assay (View interaction)  cpCK2 phosphorylates AtSig6 by protein kinase assay (View interaction)  cpCK2 and cpCK2 bind by comigration in gel electrophoresis (View interaction)  cpCK2 phosphorylates AtSig1 by protein kinase assay (View interaction)  cpCK2 phosphorylates SaSig1 by protein kinase assay (View interaction) 
!~RES~! A database search using the Arabidopsis cpCK2 sequence (without transit peptide) led to entries not only for ncCK2s from animals, fungi, plants and algae, but also for plastid‐localized (transit peptide‐containing) cpCK2 from a number of higher plant species (Figs 1 and S1). These putative cpCK2 proteins all reveal the four highly conserved subdomains known for ncCK2 (Fig. 1). Two of these subdomains – the glycine‐rich region for nucleotide binding and the catalytic region (active site) – are commonly found in eukaryotic protein kinases, while the lysine‐rich basic region and the so‐called catalytic loop are both CK2‐specific [CITATION]. None of the latter two features was conserved in the cyanobacterial entries (Fig. S1) that were also listed (with a low score) in our database screen.  [[FIGURE]] Previous in vitro studies with cloned and bacterially expressed cpCK2 from mustard [CITATION] had shown that the (N‐terminally His‐tagged) recombinant protein was enzymatically active, with properties resembling those of the authentic chloroplast enzyme [CITATION, CITATION]. Our initial attempts to clone and bacterially overexpress cpCK2 from Arabidopsis using the same His‐tag strategy were unsuccessful (H. Türkeri, J. Schweer and G. Link, unpublished observations). However, by choosing maltose‐binding protein (MBP) as an alternative tag, the cloning, expression and purification of the recombinant kinase protein from Arabidopsis has been achieved (Fig. 2A). In vitro activity assays reveal typical CK2‐type properties, including the capability of using GTP instead of ATP as a phosphodonor (Fig. 2A, lanes 2 and 3) as well as inhibition by heparin (Fig. 2A, lane 4) or 4,5,6,7‐tetrabromobenzotriazole (TBB) (lane 5) [CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] In the work with recombinant cpCK2 from mustard [CITATION], the phosphorylation of a single recombinant sigma factor (SaSIG1) from the same plant species was described. Considering that multiple members of the sigma factor family have been discovered since then (see e.g. [CITATION, CITATION]), it was of interest to test the newly constructed Arabidopsis kinase for its ability to phosphorylate different cloned sigma factors. Assays containing recombinant factors SaSIG1 or SaSIG2 (from S. alba), or factors AtSIG1 or AtSIG6 (from A. thaliana), revealed that indeed each of these sigma proteins can serve as a substrate for this kinase (Fig. 2B, lanes 2–6).  As the A. thaliana sigma factors had an N‐terminal MBP tag, controls were carried out showing that it was the sigma portion, rather than the MBP portion, that became phosphorylated. After cleavage of a sample (corresponding to that in lane 6) by factor Xa protease, a phosphorylation signal was observed at 56 kDa, in other words the apparent size of the sigma 6 portion (lane 7, asterisk), although the stability and hence signal intensity appeared to be compromised because of the relatively rigid conditions for full cleavage (see the ‘Materials and methods’). However, no radioactive signal was detectable at the position of the MBP cleavage product at 43 kDa (lane 7) or in a control lane containing kinase‐treated, commercially available MBP peptide alone (lane 8).  An additional phosphorylation signal (marked by an arrow) was observed in lanes 2–8 at ∼ 87 kDa (i.e. the position of the full‐size recombinant kinase, including the MBP tag), indicating autophosphorylation [CITATION].  To investigate the functional consequences of sigma factor phosphorylation by cpCK2, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) promoter‐binding experiments were carried out (Fig. 3). The assays contained recombinant AtSIG1 (Fig. 3A) or AtSIG6 (Fig. 3B) in the presence of Escherichia coli core RNA polymerase and a 32P‐labeled DNA fragment that carried either the chloroplast psbA promoter or the chloroplast atpB promoter from Arabidopsis. Before the binding reaction, recombinant sigma factors were either phosphorylated by Arabidopsis recombinant cpCK2 in the presence of unlabeled ATP (AtSIG1‐P and AtSIG6‐P), or were mock‐phosphorylated in samples containing the kinase but lacking ATP (AtSIG1 and AtSIG6).  [[FIGURE]] The presence of psbA promoter DNA plus core enzyme, but the absence of a sigma factor (Fig. 3A, lane 2, upper panel), did not result in a migration shift compared with the free promoter fragment alone (Fig. 3A, lane 1). Likewise, samples containing the DNA plus either mock‐phosphorylated AtSIG1 (Fig. 3A, lane 3) or phosphorylated AtSIG1‐P alone (Fig. 3A, lane 9) did not reveal a bandshift. Only the full system containing the psbA promoter fragment, core enzyme and sigma protein showed strong binding signals at a shifted position (Fig. 3A, lanes 4 and 10, upper panel). The intensity of these binding signal(s) was nearly the same, regardless of whether AtSIG1 (Fig. 3A, lane 4) or AtSIG1‐P (Fig. 3A, lane 10) was present, indicating that the cpCK2‐dependent phosphorylation state of this sigma factor does not significantly affect binding at the psbA promoter (Fig. 3A, upper panel). Typically, a doublet rather than a single binding band was generated, which probably reflects different conformations of the ternary sigma–core–promoter complex formed during EMSA. The doublet was generated in the presence or absence of proteolysis inhibitors, and the MBP tag alone did not result in a bandshift signal (not shown).  Competition EMSAs using the labeled psbA promoter, core polymerase and (mock‐phosphorylated) AtSIG1 showed greatly reduced intensity of the shifted binding signals by excess unlabeled psbA, atpB or trnK promoter fragments (Fig. 3A, lanes 5–7, upper panel) compared with the reaction in the absence of competitors (Fig. 3A, lane 4), suggesting that AtSIG1 binds efficiently to each of the three promoters under these conditions. The promoter‐less DNA fragment, Bam0.5, from the trnK intron [CITATION], did not act as a competitor (lane 8), thus supporting the specificity of the promoter‐binding assays.  In contrast to AtSIG1, usage of the phosphorylated factor (AtSIG1‐P) resulted in binding patterns indicative of differential competition in a promoter‐dependent manner. While the lower of the two bands comprising the shifted binding signals was relatively unaffected, the intensity of the upper band was strongly decreased in the presence of excess unlabeled psbA or trnK promoter (Fig. 3A, lanes 11 and 13, upper panel). A noticeable, but weaker, competition was observed with the unlabeled atpB promoter (Fig. 3A, lane 12), suggesting that this promoter is less efficiently used by AtSIG1‐P than by mock‐phosphorylated AtSIG1.  In agreement with these results, an EMSA using the labeled atpB promoter instead of the psbA promoter (Fig. 3A, lower panel) resulted in weaker binding with the phosphorylated form (Fig. 3A, lane 10), compared with the mock‐phosphorylated form of the sigma factor (Fig. 3A, lane 4). Furthermore, competition by the homologous atpB promoter fragment (Fig. 3A, lane 6 vs. lane 4) was not as effective as that by the heterologous psbA or trnK promoters (Fig. 3A, lanes 5 and 7) in the case of AtSIG1, suggesting lower binding affinity of the former. However, the relative binding efficiency still appears to be greater than that seen for the atpB competitor in the presence of AtSIG1‐P (Fig. 3A, lane 12 vs. lane 10). Using this latter form of sigma factor 1, the psbA and trnK promoters acted as strong competitors (Fig. 3A, lanes 11 and 13, lower panel) and Bam0.5 did not compete (Fig. 3A, lanes 8 and 14).  EMSAs analogous to those with AtSIG1/AtSIG1‐P were also carried out with mock‐treated (AtSIG6) and phosphorylated (AtSIG6‐P) preparations of sigma factor 6 (Fig. 3B). Using the labeled psbA promoter fragment, the full system revealed shifted binding signals (Fig. 3B, lanes 2 and 8, upper panel) not seen with the factor alone (Fig. 3B, lanes 1 and 7). Although both the mock‐treated (Fig. 3B, lane 2) and phosphorylated (Fig. 3B, lane 8) sigma forms were able to confer promoter binding, the latter seems to be more efficient, as indicated by competition experiments (Fig. 3B, lanes 3–5 and 9–11, upper panel). For mock‐phosphorylated AtSIG6, only partial competition was observed with excess unlabeled psbA promoter (Fig. 3B, lane 3), and even less with either the atpB or the trnK promoter (Fig. 3B, lanes 4 and 5). In contrast, with phosphorylated AtSIG6‐P, all three cold promoters served as strong competitors (Fig. 3B, lanes 9–11, upper panel), indicating that cpCK2 phosphorylation of sigma factor 6 is required for efficient binding of the polymerase complex to these promoters.  This is largely supported by EMSA experiments using the labeled atpB promoter fragment as a probe (Fig. 3B, lower panel). AtSIG6‐P (Fig. 3B, lane 8) confers much more efficient binding to this promoter than ATSIG6 (Fig. 3B, lane 2). The (different‐strength) binding signals obtained with either form of this factor are mostly competed by the unlabeled atpB promoter (Fig. 3B, lanes 4 and 10). They are partially competed (Fig. 3B, upper band only) by the psbA (Fig. 3B, lanes 3 and 9) and trnK (Fig. 3B, lanes 5 and 11) promoters, but not by Bam0.5 (Fig. 3B, lanes 6 and 12).  It should be emphasized that, although the EMSA data (Fig. 3A,B) do not allow strict quantification of binding affinity (see the ‘Materials and methods’), they provide a coherent framework with regard to the in vitro promoter‐binding capabilities of the two tested sigma factors at different phosphorylation states (Fig. 3C). In conclusion, while phosphorylation of AtSIG1 by cpCK2 seems to be less critical, or not critical at all, for binding at the psbA and trnK promoters, it interferes more strongly with binding at the atpB promoter. AtSIG6 behaves antagonistically compared with AtSIG1 (i.e. its phosphorylation promotes binding at the psbA and trnK promoters and even more so at the atpB promoter).  In view of the four conserved cysteine residues of Arabidopsis cpCK2 (Fig. 4A), we investigated the effect of SH‐group redox reagents on the activity of the recombinant enzyme overexpressed in bacteria (Fig. 4C). These experiments showed that the active enzyme preparation [wild‐type (WT)] is strongly inhibited by GSH but remains unaffected by GSSG or by dithiothreitol. The GSH‐specific inhibition is reminiscent of the situation described for cpCK2 from mustard [CITATION, CITATION], suggesting that this enzyme may generally be subject to SH‐group redox regulation in diverse plant species.  [[FIGURE]] To identify the cysteine residue(s) required for activity, we constructed and purified single‐mutant and double‐mutant versions of the Arabidopsis kinase overexpressed in bacteria, each with cysteine to serine exchange(s) at the indicated position(s) (Fig. 4A). These were tested in phosphorylation assays using 32P‐labeled ATP and casein as the substrate alongside the nonmutagenized (WT) kinase (Fig. 4B, upper panel). Single exchanges of the first or fourth cysteine residues, respectively, resulted in complete inactivation of the altered cpCK2 derivates (Fig. 4B, upper panel, lanes 2 and 5). Likewise, the proteins containing double exchanges of Cys2 and Cys4 (C2/4), or of Cys3 and Cys4 (C3/4), were also inactive (Fig. 4B, lanes 7 and 8). In contrast, substitution of Cys2 and Cys3, either separately (C2, C3) (Fig. 4B, lanes 3 and 4) or simultaneously (C2/3) (Fig. 4B, lane 6), did not negatively affect the kinase activity compared with that of the nonmutagenized (WT) protein (Fig. 4B, lane 1). Cysteines 1 and 4, but not cysteines 2 and 3, thus seem to be critical activity determinants in vitro. To exclude the possibility that apparent losses in enzymatic activity may have resulted by altered stability of mutant proteins, samples of all preparations used in the phosphorylation assay (Fig. 4B, upper panel) were also run on an SDS‐polyacrylamide gel and subsequently stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (Fig. 4B, lower panel). None of these samples revealed noticeable degradation under these conditions.  To further assess the role of cysteines in Arabidopsis cpCK2, we studied the effects of redox reagents on these mutant proteins using standard phosphorylation assays with casein as the substrate (Fig. 4C). Like the nonmutagenized cpCK2 protein (WT), all enzymatically active mutant derivates (C2, C3 and C2/3) were found to be inactivated by GSH but not by GSSG or dithiothreitol. While these data are consistent with the notion that the inhibitory effect of GSH results from reaction with either or both Cys1 and Cys4, this does not exclude the possibility that Cys2 and/or Cys3 may have other SH‐sensitive functions. To this end, both the WT cpCK2 and the mutant derivatives were run under nonreducing electrophoretic conditions (Fig. 5A), allowing detection of protein dimers that may form as a result of intermolecular disulfide bond formation [CITATION]. Using either mock‐treated or dithiothreitol‐treated recombinant proteins, both monomeric (87 kDa) and dimeric (174 kDa) states were detected by a monoclonal antibody against CK2α. Those mutant derivatives marked by asterisks – C2 (Fig. 5A, lane 5), C2/3 (Fig. 5A, lane 11) and C2/4 (Fig. 5A, lane 15) – were unable to form homodimers, thus pointing to Cys2 as the site responsible for the formation of intermolecular disulfide bonds.  [[FIGURE]] This is supported by experiments aimed at enhancing the formation of intermolecular disulfides by the omission of dithiothreitol and usage of the thiol‐oxidant diamide [CITATION]. In the case of the WT cpCK2 protein, diamide promoted dimer formation, whereas both the C2 and C2/3 derivatives were unaffected (Fig. 5C). To test the functional impact of dimerization on cpCK2 activity, the WT kinase and its mutant derivatives (C2, C3 and C2/3) were each treated with increasing concentrations of diamide, followed by phosphorylation assays with casein as the substrate (Fig. 5B). Both the WT and the C3 mutant kinase were found to be readily susceptible to diamide, resulting in almost full inactivation at 1–2 mm of the oxidant (Fig. 5B, lanes 3 and 13). In contrast, the C2 and C2/3 mutant versions were still active at higher diamide concentrations of up to 10 mm (Fig. 5B, lanes 7 and 10). Together, these results strongly suggest that it is dimerization at the second cysteine residue of cpCK2 which leads to inactivation of the enzyme in vitro. 
!~MM~! Multiple sequence alignments were carried out using Clustal W [CITATION] (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalw2/), and graphical editing was performed with TreeView [CITATION] (http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html). Trees were constructed using the neighbor‐joining method [CITATION]. Sequence data for chloroplast (cp) and nucleocytosolic (nc) forms of CK2 are available in the GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis lyrata (cp: XP_002880479; nc: XP_002876010), Arabidopsis thaliana (cp: NP_179889; nc: BAA01091), Camponotus floridanus (EFN62439), Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (XP_001701441), Harpegnathos saltator (EFN84867), Homo sapiens (NM_001895), Lolium perenne (cp: BAD98469; nc: BAD98470), Mus musculus (NP_034104), Micromonas pusilla (XP_003055444), Micromonas sp. RCC299 (XP_002503691), Oryza sativa (cp: EEC76225; nc: NP_001058752), Ostreococcus tauri (XP_003082408), Physcomitrella patens (XP_001773642), Populus trichocarpa (cp: XP_002303393; nc: XP_002304312), Sorghum bicolor (cp: XP_002463842; nc: XP_002461336), Selaginella moellendorffii (XP_002970413), Schizosacchoromyces pombe (CAA52331), Strongylocentrotus purpuratus (XP_785475), Volvox carterix (XP_002959045), Vitis vinifera (cp: XP_002284333; nc: XP_002284196) and Xenopus laevis (NP_001084124). The following entries are from Phytozome (http://www.phytozome.net/): Aquilegia coeulea (cp: AcoGoldSmith_v1.005754m.g; nc: AcoGoldSmith_v1.005953m.g), Manihot esculenta (cp: cassava4.1_008233m.g; nc: cassava4.1_008506m.g), Mimulus gattus (cp: mgv1a007081m.g; nc: mgv1a009712m.g), Medicago truncatula (cp: Medtr5g015920; nc: Medtr8g099310) and Prunus persia (cp: ppa006184m.g; nc: ppa006659m.g).  The Arabidopsis cpCK2 cDNA lacking the transit peptide region was amplified using primers 5′‐GAATTCGGATCCGCTTCTCTTTACCGTCAACATCTCCGG‐3′ and 5′‐CTGCAGG‐TCGACTCACTGGCTGCGCGGCGTACGGCTGC‐3′ and cloned in the pMALc2x vector (NEB, Ipswich, MA, USA). The cysteine mutants were generated using the QuikChange site‐directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Primers for mutagenesis are listed in Table S1.  The DNA fragments containing promoters of the Arabidopsis chloroplast genes psbA, atpB and trnK [CITATION] have been previously described [CITATION].  Recombinant sigma factors SaSIG1 and SaSIG2 from mustard (S. alba) lacking the chloroplast transit peptide were expressed and isolated as previously described [CITATION, CITATION]. Arabidopsis cpCK2 and its cysteine mutant derivatives, as well as the AtSIG1 and AtSIG6 sigma factor proteins (without transit peptide), were expressed in E. coli BL21RIL and purified using amylose resin according to the pMAL manual (NEB). Typically, from a 250‐mL culture, 1–2 mg of affinity‐purified cpCK2 protein was obtained. Based on SDS/PAGE of column fractions (H. Türkeri, PhD thesis, 2010), ∼ one‐tenth of this material (0.2 mg), judged to be more than 95% pure, was collected and used in the present experiments. For western blot analysis, the proteins were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane after SDS/PAGE. Immunodetection was carried out using a mouse monoclonal CK2α antibody (C5367; Sigma‐Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA) raised against a conserved epitope representing residues 319–324 of human CK2.  CK2 assays were performed in 50‐μL reaction mixtures containing 20 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mm KCl, 10 mm MgCl2, 40 μm [32P]ATP[γP] or [32P]GTP[γP] (10 μCi·mmol−1), and 2.5 μg (for casein phosphorylation) or 5 μg (for sigma factor phosphorylation) of cpCK2. Either 1 μg of partially dephosphorylated α‐casein (Sigma) or 5 μg of recombinant sigma factors were used as substrates. Factor Xa cleavage of MBP‐tagged sigma protein (5 μg) was carried out with 100 ng of the protease (NEB) at 25 °C for 2 h. The CK2 inhibitors heparin or TBB (Sigma‐Aldrich) were present at final concentrations of 5 μg·mL−1 and 10 μm, respectively. The TBB stock solution was solved in dimethylsulfoxide and controls containing the diluted solvents alone were therefore included [CITATION]. After incubation for 30 min at 30 °C, reaction mixtures were stopped by the addition of SDS sample buffer (final concentration: 60 mm Tris/HCl, pH 6.7, 2% [w/v] SDS, 0.04% [w/v] BPB, 5% [v/v] β‐mercaptoethanol, 10% [w/v] glycerol) and heated at 95 °C for 10 min. The polypeptides were separated by SDS/PAGE (8% [w/v] acrylamide) and the dried gels were subjected to autoradiography.  Recombinant sigma proteins were phosphorylated or mock‐phosphorylated, as described above, in the presence of unlabeled ATP or water, respectively. They were then incubated with 5 ng of 32P‐labeled psbA or atpB promoter fragments [CITATION], 5.7 pmol of E. coli core RNA polymerase (Epicentre Biotech., Madison, USA) and 3 μg of poly[d(I‐C)] in 50 μL of binding buffer at 25 °C for 15 min. Binding buffer was 30 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.0, 5 mmβ‐mercaptoethanol, 0.5 mm EDTA, 5% (v/v) glycerol [CITATION]. Samples of the pretreated sigma proteins (30 pmol in 5 μL) were directly used in the EMSA without prior repurification but at a 10‐fold dilution to reduce the ATP concentrations from the previous kinase reaction. DNA–protein complexes were analysed on native 4% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels [acrylamide/bisacrylamide (37.5 : 1, w/w)] in TBE buffer (50 mm Tris, 45 mm boric acid, 0.5 mm EDTA, pH 8.3). Gels were dried and analysed using a FLA‐3000 phosphoimager (Fujifilm, Tokyo, Japan).  Unlabeled psbA, atpB or trnK promoter fragments were used as specific competitors and the promoter‐less fragment, Bam0.5, within the trnK intron [CITATION] served as a noncompetitive control. Unlabeled fragments were added prior to the labeled probe. Initial competitor titration experiments with each of the promoter‐bearing DNA fragments (psbA, atpB and trnK promoters) showed that most of the competition effect (if any) was already present at a low molar excess (1 : 1 to 1 : 3; labeled fragment vs. unlabeled fragment). Increasing the ratio further (1 : 6 to 1 : 24) resulted in some additional weakening but not in complete loss of the binding signal, and to increased distortion of the latter. Therefore, the chosen ‘standard’ conditions for the competion assays with these promoter fragments were 1:3 (molar ratio; labelled fragment vs. unlabelled fragment). In contrast, with the promoter‐less fragment Bam0.5, no appreciable decrease (compared with full signal intensity without the competitor) was visible even at the highest ratio, and the chosen molar ratio in this case was 1 : 6 (probe vs. Bam0.5).  Affinity‐purified WT and/or mutant kinases were preincubated in 50 mm Tris/HCl (pH 8.0) at room temperature for 30 min in the presence or absence of redox‐active reagents, as indicated. Samples were then mixed with loading buffer lacking a reductant [final concentration: 50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 8.0, 2% (w/v) SDS, 0.04% (w/v) bromophenol blue] and applied to the 8% or 10% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel [acrylamide/bisacrylamide (37.5 : 1, w/w)] without prior heating. SDS/PAGE was carried out in the Bis‐Tris system using the MOPS‐Tris running buffer according to the NuPAGE manual (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). 
