!~ABS~! The eukaryotic transcription factor NF-Y consists of three subunits (A, B, and C), which are encoded in Arabidopsis thaliana in multigene families consisting of 10, 13, and 13 genes, respectively. In principle, all potential combinations of the subunits are possible for the assembly of the heterotrimeric complex. We aimed at assessing the probability of each subunit to participate in the assembly of NF-Y. The evaluation of physical interactions among all members of the NF-Y subunit families indicate a strong requirement for NF-YB/NF-YC heterodimerization before the entire complex can be accomplished. By means of a modified yeast two-hybrid system assembly of all three subunits to a heterotrimeric complex was demonstrated. Using GFP fusion constructs, NF-YA and NF-YC localization in the nucleus was demonstrated, while NF-YB is solely imported into the nucleus as a NF-YC-associated heterodimer NF-YC. This piggyback transport of the two Arabidopsis subunits differs from the import of the NF-Y heterotrimer of heterotrophic organisms. Based on a peptide structure model of the histone-fold-motifs, disulfide bonding among intramolecular conserved cysteine residues of NF-YB, which is responsible for the redox-regulated assembly of NF-YB and NF-YC in human and Aspergillus nidulans , can be excluded for Arabidopsis NF-YB.
!~RES~! The entire NF-Y complex of Aspergillus nidulans was reported to be translocated into the nucleus ( CITATION ). It remains open whether this translocation mechanism can also be established for the multiple NF-Y complexes in plants. We intended to demonstrate the subcellular localization of representatives of the three NF-Y subunits from Arabidopsis . NF-YA2, NF-YA4, NF-YB3, NF-YB10, and NF-YC2 were expressed with a C-terminal eGFP fusion under the control of the 35S CaMV promoter in Arabidopsis leaves after transformation via particle bombardment. NF-YA2, NF-YA4 (data not shown), and NF-YC2 were exclusively detected in the nucleus of the transformed leaf cells ( CITATION ). In contrast, the two NF-YBs, NF-YB3 (data not shown) and NF-YB10, are found to be localized in the cytoplasm ( CITATION ). The subcellular localization of NF-YB was modified after co-expression of 35S CaMV::NF-YC9 . Upon concomitant co-transformation and expression of NF-YC9 and NF-YB3–GFP (data not shown) or NF-YB10–GFP fusion proteins, NF-YB dominantly accumulated inside the nucleus of transformed cells ( CITATION ). In contrast to NF-YA and NF-YC, all NF-YBs lack NLS. NF-YBs are proposed to be transported into the nucleus after interaction with NF-YC, while NF-YA and NF-YC are imported into the nucleus without auxiliary assistance. In conclusion, the interaction between NF-YB10 and NF-YC9 in the cytoplasm is an essential prerequisite for the translocation of NF-YB into the nucleus and follows a piggyback mechanism. The physical interaction of NF-YB10 as well as NF-YB3 with NF-YC9 was additionally demonstrated (1) in vitro by performing pull-down assays ( CITATION ), (2) in planta using the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) method ( CITATION ), and (3) in vivo by yeast two-hybrid experiments ( CITATION ; see the next section and CITATION ). In one experimental approach, recombinant GST-fused NF-YC9 was immobilized on glutathione beads and subjected to in-vitro translation extracts with S35-labeled NF-YB3 and NF-YB10. NF-YB10 ( CITATION ) and NF-YB3 (data not shown) were released from the glutathione beads in substantially higher amounts after interaction with GST–NF-YC9 than without this interaction partner. In planta , NF-YB3–YFP N and NF-YB10–YFP N fusions as well as NF-YB3–YFP C and NF-YB10–YFP C fusion proteins were able to interact with NF-YC9–YFP C and NF-YC9–YFP N , respectively, resulting in the reconstitution of the YFP fluorescence signal ( CITATION ). The subcellular localization of the heterodimers NF-YB3/NF-YC9 and NF-YB10/NF-YC9 dimers was predominantly inside the nucleus. YFP fluorescence did not merge with the CFP fluorescence emitted by the CFP-tagged-ER marker CD3-953, which was co-transformed with the NF-Y fusion gene constructs. As control, any combination of NF-YB3, NY-B10, or NF-YC9 as YFP N or YFP C fusion protein with the empty corresponding non-recombinant YFP N and YFP C containing vector did not result in detectable YFP fluorescence ( CITATION ). Following the hypothesis of combinatorial diversity of Arabidopsis NF-Y subunits, we assayed the bilateral interactions of Arabidopsis NF-Y proteins as bait and prey fusions in the diploid yeast cells via the expression of the yeast two-hybrid reporter genes HIS and lacZ before the potential combinations of each subunit in a heterotrimeric complex is assessed. A maximum of 666 different combinations of two interacting Arabidopsis NF-Y proteins can be achieved with the total number of 36 members within the three NF-Y subunit families ( ∑ k = 1 36 k = 666 ) . Considering that the coding sequence of each of the 36 Arabidopsis NF-Y subunits is inserted in bait and prey fusion gene constructs, respectively, the proteins can be combined in 1296 different possibilities in a yeast two-hybrid approach. In total, 1224 of the 1296 possible combinations were analyzed in our yeast two-hybrid experiments ( CITATION and CITATION ). The total number of combinations was reduced, because four proteins were not considered for the readout. First, NF-YB12 and NF-Y B13 annotated also as TATA-binding protein-associated phosphoproteins DR1-like proteins were only functional as prey fusions in the yeast two-hybrid experiments and could not be investigated in the opposite combination as a bait fusion protein. Second, NF-YA5 and NF-YC5 evidently did not interact with any other protein in the whole interactome approach. For the evaluation of our interactome assay, protein–protein interactions are accepted as positive, when the protein–protein interactions were reliably induced β-galactosidase levels over 0.2 ( CITATION ). Ninety-two combinations were determined in only one combination of bait and prey constructs, whereas 56 interactions among two NF-Y proteins could be proofed in both reciprocal bait/prey combinations resulting in total in 204 protein–protein interactions through unidirectional and reverse combination of bait and prey vectors. CITATION displays the survey of the NF-Y interactome and CITATION highlights the positive protein–protein interactions among the three NF-Y subunits. An additional criterion for reproducible protein–protein interaction was included. Only protein–protein interactions were accepted when they were verified in our yeast two-hybrid experiments in both reciprocal combinations. Based on these settings, 95% of all established bilateral interactions (53 of 56) were determined among proteins of the NF-YC and NF-YB families. Two combinations of NF-YA and NF-YC proteins displayed positive interactions in both reciprocal combinations of bait and prey vectors, whereas no interaction among a single NF-YA and NF-YB could be established. Related to the maximum number of possible NF-YB/NF-YC combinations, 31% of all possible interactions among each member of the two subunit families were verified with the yeast two-hybrid system. Only two out of 130 possible NF-YA/NF-YC interactions were detected in our interactome assay and no NF-YA/NF-YB interaction. Moreover, except for the combination NF-YB4/NF-YB7, no single interaction among members of the same NF-Y subunit family, as well as no homodimerization of Arabidopsis NF-Y proteins, could be verified ( CITATION and CITATION ), indicating that the NF-Y subunits do not tend to associate with other members of the same subunit family or to form homodimers. In total, 53 of 169 possible bilateral Arabidopsis NF-YB and NF-YC interactions were detected in both combinations of bait and prey fusions in the yeast two-hybrid experiments. In particular, 10 NF-YB and seven NF-YC proteins interact in a high number of combinations to form different heterodimers, whereas three NF-YB (NF-YB11, B12, and B13) and five NF-YC proteins (NF-YC7, C8, C10, C11, and C13) interacted only with a considerably smaller number or none of the members of the other subunit family ( CITATION ). To suggest reasons for their inability to form bilateral interactions, we compared the primary amino acid sequence of each member within the NF-Y families of B- and C-subunits in a sequence alignment ( CITATION ). Considering in addition the three-dimensional crystal structure of the human NF-YB/C heterodimer, both proteins dimerise by anti-parallel annealing of their central HFMs, similar to the mechanism proposed for histone subunits ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Comparison of the peptide sequences of the HFMs of the Arabidopsis NF-YB proteins revealed the high similarity (58–72%) to their human ortholog ( CITATION ) except for the HFMs of NF-YB11, B12, and B13, which show a lower similarity (27–36%). This dissimilarity of the HFM interface of NF-YB11, B12, and B13 to NF-YC could explain the restriction of these three B-subunits to interact with NF-YC proteins. As mentioned above, five NF-YC proteins (NF-YC7, C8, C10, C11, and C13) were remarkably limited in their capability to bind NF-YB proteins. Three of them (NF-YC10, C11, and C13) show a low similarity (24.7–34.7%) in their conserved HFMs in comparison to the HFM of the human NF-YC subunit ( CITATION ). It is proposed that this lower similarity caused a reduced structural integrity of the HFM and a lower binding capacity to the corresponding NF-YB subunits. According to the three-dimensional-structure model of the human NF-YB/YC heterodimer ( CITATION ), each subunit possesses an intramolecular hydrogen bond within the HFM between the Arg 108 and Asp 115 of the human NF-YB and Arg 93 and Asp 100 of NF-YC. Both arginine–aspartate pairs are highly conserved throughout evolution and can be found in NF-YB and NF-YC subunits of several species. The arginine–aspartate pairs consequently seem to be important for the mutual interaction between both NF-Y subunit families. It is suggested that the peptide motif is functional in stabile structural conformations of NF-YB and NF-YC through the HFMs ( CITATION ). Sequence alignments revealed, with the exception of NF-YB12 and B13, that all Arabidopsis NF-YB subunits possess the highly conserved aspartate and arginine residues at the corresponding positions in their HFMs. This structural consistency correlates with the abilities of NF-YB subunits to interact with NF-YC subunits. All Arabidopsis subunits of the NF-YC family, which interact with a large number of NF-YB subunits, also contain the two highly conserved amino acid residues in their HFM. The remaining members of the NF-YC family, which are characterized with a lower NF-YB binding capacity in our yeast two-hybrid experiments, like NF-YC8, C10, C11, and C13, have a substitution at least at one of the conserved aspartate or arginine residues. NF-YC7 is characterized by a specific feature of an additional insertion of six amino acid residues in the HFM bordered by the conserved aspartate and arginine residues. In conclusion, these sequence comparisons suggest an essential role of the intramolecular H-bond formation formed by conserved amino acid residues in the HFM of Arabidopsis NF-YB and NF-YC subunits for the capability of protein–protein interaction. The evaluation of successful interactions between NF-YB and NF-YC subunits by yeast two-hybrid experiments revealed a substantial list of candidates of NF-YB und NF-YC subunits ( CITATION ). The final assembly of heterotrimeric complexes of plant NF-Y requires stable interaction of NF-YB and NF-YC proteins with the NF-YA subunit. We assessed positive interactions of three different NF-Y subunits in a modified yeast two-hybrid approach. After transformation of yeast cells with NF-YA/NF-YB prey and bait gene fusions, the additional vector construct pVT-U102::NF-YC2 was introduced. Our yeast-two hybrid experiments showed that NF-YA2 and NF-YA4 did not interact with NF-YB10 independently from their respective expression as bait or prey fusion-peptide ( CITATION ). By means of additional expression of the recombinant NF-YC2, the interaction between NF-YA2 and NF-YB10 as well as NF-YA4 and NF-YB10 was shown by the successful expression of HIS3 and lacZ reporter genes ( CITATION ). As already previously shown for the assembly of the trimeric human NF-Y complex in vitro ( CITATION ), the initial formation of NF-YB/NF-YC heterodimer is predicted to be obligatory for a stable interaction of Arabidopsis NF-YA with the other two subunits. In accordance with a stepwise assembly mechanism described for NF-Y assembly of Aspergillus nidulans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Homo sapiens ( CITATION ; CITATION ; CITATION ), the plant NF-YA apparently requires the combined protein surface of the NF-YB/NF-YC dimer. A piggyback transport of the complete heterotrimeric NF-Y complex into the nucleus was reported for the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans ( CITATION ). Thereby, HapC and HapE (homologous to NF-YB and NF-YC, respectively) form first a heterodimer by head-to-tail annealing of their HFMs. An intramolecular disulfide bond between two cysteine residues inside the HFM of HapC controls the heterodimerization. Under oxidizing conditions, this disulfide bond was proposed to affect structurally the three-dimensional conformation of the HFM of HapC and to prevent heterodimerization. Aspergillus nidulans conclusively possesses a redox-depending molecular switch, which controls the spatial distribution of subunits and subcellular localization of the trimeric HAP (NF-Y) complex ( CITATION ). We assessed the probability of intramolecular disulfide bonding of Arabidopsis NF-YB, which could affect the NF-YB/NF-YC heterodimer formation in a redox-dependent manner and their piggyback transport into the nucleus. All Arabidopsi s NF-YB subunits have two conserved cysteine residues in the HFM at the positions Cys 64 and Cys 80 (referred to as NF-YB10; CITATION ), which correspond to Cys 89 and Cys 105 of human NF-YB ( CITATION ) and Cys 78 and Cys 84 of A. nidulans HapC ( CITATION ). The NF-YB of Homo sapiens and A. nidulans possess an additional conserved cysteine separated by only three amino acids from C2, which was denominated C1 ( CITATION ). Redox-dependent intramolecular disulfide bonding of the human as well as the fungal NF-YB protein was described among cysteine residues C1 and C2 ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Using the crystal structure of the human NF-YB/C heterodimer ( CITATION ), we modeled the three-dimensional Arabidopsis NF-YB structure, mainly its HFM, and defined the possible spatial orientation of the conserved cysteine residues as well as the distances of these residues to each other in the protein structure. As result, the human NF-YB structure ( CITATION ) confirms that cysteine C1 and C2 are perfectly arranged in the first α-helix of the HFM for the preferential formation of an intramolecular disulfide bond ( CITATION ), whereas disulfide bonding between the cysteine C2 and C3 can be excluded, since they would require massive changes in the three-dimensional conformation of NF-YB HFM ( CITATION ). In analogy, the spatial separation of the two cysteine residues of the Arabidopsis NF-YB, Cys 64 (C2) and Cys 80 (C3), does not support intramolecular disulfide bonding in the HFM region ( CITATION ). In conclusion, an intramolecular disulfide bond of NF-YB necessarily requires the conserved cysteine residues C1 and C2. Both cysteine side chains can be found in NF-YB of heterotrophic organisms, like H. sapiens and A. nidulans. Arabidopsis NF-YB subunits as well as NF-YBs of other photoautotrophic species do not possess a cysteine residue at the corresponding position to C1. Moreover, analyzing the consensus sequence of all NF-YB proteins hosted in the Plant Transcription Factor Database ( http://planttfdb.cbi.pku.edu.cn/ ) ( CITATION ), no phototrophic species possesses cysteine residue C1 in their NF-YB sequences ( CITATION ). As a consequence, the modulation of the NF-YB/NF-YC interaction under oxidizing conditions is not expected in these organisms. To substantiate these assessments, we analyzed the effects of changing redox states on the protein–protein interaction among NF-YBs and NF-YCs in vivo . The diploid yeast cells containing bait and prey gene constructs for the Arabidopsis and human NF-YB subunits were incubated with different concentrations of H 2 O 2 . As a result of these growth conditions, human and Arabidopsis NF-YBs differ in their capability to interact with NF-YC of the corresponding organism. Whereas the Arabidopsis NF-YB10/NF-YC2 heterodimer was stable under normal as well as oxidizing conditions (with up to 5 mM H 2 O 2 ), human NF-YB did not stably interact with NF-YC at more than 1 mM H 2 O 2 ( CITATION ). It is suggested that a redox-dependent mechanism perturbs the stable interaction between human NF-YB and NF-YC and it is likely that the side chains of C1 and C2 of NF-YB form a redox-dependent intramolecular disulfide bond that compromises the heterodimer formation of NF-YB and NF-YC.
!~MM~! Total RNA was isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsi s leaf material using TRIsure (Bioline). One microgram of DNAse I (Fermentas)-pretreated total RNA was reverse-transcribed with oligo dT 18 using a RevertAid reverse transcription kit (Fermentas). The coding regions of all 36 NF-Y genes from Arabidopsis thaliana were amplified from cDNA by PCR using specific primers (primer sequences on request) containing either a Sal I or a Not I restriction site, respectively. Human NF-YB and NF-YC coding sequences were amplified from pET3b_hsNF-YB and pET3b- hs_NF-YC constructs kindly provided by Dr Mantovani (University of Milano, Italy). Yeast two-hybrid bait and prey constructs were generated by insertion of the amplified fragments between Sal I and Not I restriction sites of modified pBTM117c or pGAD10 vectors possessing identical multiple cloning sites and the correct coding and in-frame sequence was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Yeast strains L40ccu mating type a and type α ( CITATION ) were used for transformation with either 500 ng of bait (pBTM117c) or prey (pGAD10) plasmids, respectively, according to the method described previously ( CITATION ) and selected for leucine or tryptophan prototrophy in synthetic drop-out (SD) medium (containing 0.66% yeast nitrogen base, 2% glucose, and appropriate auxotrophic supplements). Only yeast cells containing prey constructs of NF-YB12 or NF-YB13 were not able to be cultivated on appropriate selective media. For cultivation of yeast cultures in 96-well plates, always 4 μl of the pre-culture were used for inoculating 200 μl of the appropriate media followed by incubation of up to 24 h at 30°C and 230 rpm. Interaction of three NF-Y subunits was investigated after co-transformation of diploid yeast cells containing bait and prey constructs with the pVT-U102::NF-YC2 plasmid and subsequent selection for uracil autotrophy on appropriate SD medium. The coding region of NF-YC2 was amplified using 5´-GCGCCTCGAGATGGAGCAGTCAGAAGAGGG-3´ and 5´-TTTAAGCTTTTAAGACTCATCAGGGTGTTGCT-3´ primers and ligated between Xho I and Hin dIII restriction sites of pVT-U102 vector. Diploid yeast cells harboring any possible combination of bait and prey plasmids were generated by mating corresponding haploid yeast cultures of opposite mating types during cultivation in YPAD medium (containing 1% of yeast extract, 2% of peptone, 2% of glucose, 0.01% adenine hemisulphate). After successful mating, yeast cultures were selected by growth in SD medium lacking leucine and tryptophan (SD–LT). Protein–protein interactions were confirmed by growth in medium lacking histidine, leucine, tryptophan, and uracil (SD-HLTU) and subsequent determination of the β-galactosidase activity using ortho -nitrophenyl-β-galactoside (ONPG). Auto-activation of the HIS3 reporter genes was suppressed by adding appropriate concentrations of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) to the SD-HLTU medium. β-galactosidase activity assays were performed similarly to that described before ( CITATION ). Two hundred μl diploid yeast cultures were harvested by centrifugation and re-suspended in 200 μl PBS buffer (137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 100 mM Na 2 PO 4 and 2 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 8.0) before yeast cell walls were disrupted by three freeze–thaw cycles consisting of 15 min at –80°C and 25 min at 37°C. After centrifugation for 15 min at 5000 g , cell debris was re-suspended in 20 μl 250 mM TRIS-HCl, pH 8.0 and OD600 were measured. For developing ONPG colorimetric reaction, 80 μl of z-buffer (60 mM Na 2 HPO 4 , 40 mM NaH 2 PO 4 , 10 mM KCl, pH 7.0) and 17 μl 0.1% (w:v) ONPG were added and incubated at 30°C for 60 min, before the reaction was stopped by adding 125 μl 1 M NaHCO 3 . After centrifugation for 2 min at 5000 g , the supernatant was used for measuring absorbance at 410 nm and calculation of the relative β-galactosidase activity as described previously ( CITATION ). The threshold for a positive protein–protein interaction was set at 0.2 relative β-galactosidase activity units, which was determined for interaction between NF-YB10 and NF-YC9 in a yeast two-hybrid assay using filter lift-assays as described previously ( CITATION ). This interaction was the result of a previous screen for interacting proteins of NF-YC9 as bait and confirmed with an alternative method in a pull-down experiment ( CITATION ). Thus, an interaction between two NF-Y subunits was accepted if relative β-galactosidase activity of at least two of the three biological replicas and the corresponding mean value of all three replicas of both bait–prey combinations exceeded 0.2. Yeast two-hybrid analysis under oxidative conditions was performed following the protocol by CITATION . The coding region of AtNF-YB10 was amplified using 5´-AAGCTTAAAATGGCCGAATCGCAAACC-3´ and 5´-AGATCTCTACTCTGTGCCCGGCATTTG-3´ primers and subsequently cloned into Hin dIII and Bgl II restriction sites of the modified pBAT22rev vector ( CITATION ), which carries CACCATGGCG as a typical vertebrate consensus sequence at the translation start ( CITATION ). In vitro translation of AtNF-YB10 was performed using the the TNT ® Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation System (Promega). In parallel, the modified pGEX-2 vector was used as control and for expression of AtNF-YC9–GST. NF-YC9 was cloned between the Sal I and Not I restriction sites. S35-labeled AtNF-YB10 was used for protein pull-down experiments with recombinant AtNF-YC9–GST fusion protein as well as GST for control using the MagneGST Pull-Down System (Promega). After pull-down, samples were separated by SDS–PAGE and radio-labeled proteins were detected by exposure to an X-ray film. Coding region of NF-YA2, NF-YA4, NF-YB3, NF-YB10, NF-YC1 , and NF-YC2 were amplified with specific primers and ligated between the Mfe I and Sal I restriction sites of the linearized pRT-100 plasmid, which contains the eGFP sequence among Bgl II and Xba I restriction sites from the EPFGP N2 plasmid (kindly provided by Bianca Baudisch, Martin-Luther Universität Halle/Saale, Germany). Arabidopsis NF-Y sequences were cloned as c-terminal eGFP fusions. For co-transformation, a pRT-100mod_ NF-YC9 construct was used possessing a stop codon between NF-YC9 and eGFP sequence. Three-week-old Arabidopsis Col-0 WT leaves were used for the transient transformation using the PDS 1000/HE™ particle gun (Biorad) and gold particles according to the manufacturer’s data. Detection of the subcellular localization was performed using the spectral confocal & multiphoton system TCS SP2 (Leica Mikrosysteme). The GFP fluorescence signal was recorded between 500 and 600 nm after excitation at 488 nm. Cell walls were identified by bright field microscopy and localization of nuclei was determined after staining with 4´,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole-dihydrochloride (DAPI). NF-YC9, NF-YB3 , and NF-YB10 coding sequences were cloned between the Spe I and Xho I restriction sites of the BiFC plasmids pSPYNE and pSPYCE ( CITATION ), respectively. Two-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were used for transient transformation using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV2260 ( CITATION ) carrying NF-Y pSPYCE and pSPYNE constructs. Cell walls were identified by bright field microscopy and localization of nuclei was determined by identification of the nucleus surrounding endoplasmic reticulum using a CFP-tagged ER marker (ABRC stock no. CD3-953), possessing the signal peptide of AtWAK2 at the N-terminus and the ER retention signal at the C-terminus of the CFP, as described previously ( CITATION ). Reconstitution of YFP fluorescence was followed by using a confocal microscope (excitation 514 nm; emission 530–555 nm). CFP fluorescence was recorded at between 475 and 495 nm after excitation at 458 nm. As a template, the high-resolution crystal structure of the human heterodimer NF-YB/NF-YC (1.67 Å) was chosen (PDB ID 1N1J) to model the homologous Arabidopsis NF-YB 10 structure (derived from TAIR, AT3G53340.1-related protein sequence). The sequence alignment of the amino acid sequence of AT3G53340.1 (NF-YB10) with NF-YB of the human structure showed a sequence identity of 70% with 91% similar amino acids in a gapless alignment ensuring a reliable structural modeling. The sequence alignment and the structural superposition were carried out using version 4.01 of the Swiss PDB viewer software ( CITATION ). The modeled structure was energy minimized applying the CharmM force field ( CITATION ) using the Accelrys Discovery Studio 2.5.
