!~ABS~! ► FLU is part of a protein complex bound to chloroplast membranes, primarily on the thylakoids. ► FLU co-migrates on BNGE with several enzymes of the chlorophyll biosynthesis pathway. ► FLU co-immunoprecipitates with CHL27, POR B, POR C and geranylgeranyl reductase. ► FLU co-immunoprecipitates with GluTR only in the dark.
!~RES~! The steady state level of the FLU protein is higher in Arabidopsis seedlings and mature plants grown under continuous light than in etiolated seedlings CITATION. Under continuous light, the rate of ALA synthesis in the flu mutant exceeds that of wild type plants CITATION. These findings demonstrate that FLU does not only operate in dark-treated plants and that the components of the FLU-dependent regulatory mechanism should be also accessible in light-grown plants. Therefore, all of the following experiments were done with light-grown plants. With a FLU-specific antibody, FLU was exclusively found within the chloroplast membrane fraction (CITATION A) confirming results of previous studies of FLU import into isolated pea chloroplasts CITATION. Furthermore, publicly available quantitative proteomics data of purified sub-compartments of the chloroplast showed that 87% of the spectra counts from the FLU protein were identified in thylakoid membranes and 13% in purified envelopes (Fig. S1) CITATION (www.grenoble.prabi.fr/at_chloro). A similar dual localization inside the chloroplast has already been demonstrated for several enzymes catalyzing the final steps of Chl biosynthesis CITATION. To investigate whether FLU forms part of a larger protein complex, blue native gel electrophoresis (BNGE) was used in combination with immunoblotting. Chloroplasts were isolated from wild type and flu plants grown under continuous light and proteins were solubilized with the mild detergent dodecyl-β-d-maltoside CITATION. Proteins were separated on blue native gels, transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membranes and FLU was detected immunologically. Even though the flu mutant used for this analysis lacks the FLU protein, the pattern and abundance of major chloroplast protein complexes were not altered in flu when compared to the wild type (CITATIONB, left panel). This result is in line with our earlier observation that the enhanced rate of ALA synthesis in light-grown flu does not change the Chl content and the visible phenotype of the mutant, when compared to wild type CITATION. With the FLU antibody, a major complex of approximately 200kDa was detected in wild type but not in flu chloroplasts (CITATIONB, right panel). Since the apparent molecular weight of the mature FLU protein is 22kDa CITATION, the higher molecular weight observed suggests that in chloroplasts FLU forms part of a larger protein complex. This complex does not co-migrate with any of the major protein complexes separated by BNGE (CITATIONB). The 200kDa FLU-containing complex was also detected when solubilized proteins of the chloroplast membrane fraction were subjected to BNGE and Western analysis (CITATION). Thus, separation of chloroplast membranes from the soluble stroma prior to solubilization did not affect the electrophoretic mobility of the major FLU-containing complex. As an additional control, another mild detergent, digitonin, was used for solubilization of chloroplast membranes. Also in this case the 200kDa FLU-containing complex was detected even though some smearing of the protein band occurred (CITATION). For these experiments, detergents were used at a final concentration of 1.66%. At lower concentrations both detergents were less efficient in releasing the FLU-containing complex from chloroplast membranes. Collectively, these results show that the FLU-containing complex is tightly associated with chloroplast membranes. In addition to the major complex of 200kDa, FLU-containing protein bands of approximately 140, 600, 700–800, and 1000kDa were also detected, although they were less abundant than the 200kDa complex and their relative intensities varied in different experiments (CITATIONB, CITATION). The following attempts to characterize constituents of these complexes were based on the premise that the 200kDa complex forms a core unit that may also form higher molecular weight aggregates. In such a case one might expect that among the proteins co-migrating with FLU at 200kDa on a blue native gel genuine constituents of the FLU complex should also be found co-migrating with FLU in gel sections containing higher molecular weight forms of the core unit. After solubilization of isolated chloroplasts with dodecyl-β-d-maltoside and protein separation by BNGE, gel pieces expected to contain the 200kDa and the 700–800kDa FLU-containing complexes were cut out (CITATIONB). In-gel digestion was performed and the resulting peptides were subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis using a high mass accuracy FT-ICR mass spectrometer. The entire experiment was repeated twice. Acquired MS/MS data were searched with Mascot CITATION. An expectation value below 0.05 and a score higher than 39 were required for identification. These criteria resulted in a false positive rate below 1% at peptide level. Only proteins found in both experiments were considered as truly co-migrating. In gel sections containing the 200kDa FLU-containing band, a total of 117 proteins were identified and FLU was one of them (Dataset S1). Several enzymes of the chlorophyll biosynthesis branch that catalyze consecutive reactions co-migrated with FLU. These were Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyl transferase (CHLM), a subunit of Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethylester oxidative cyclase (CHL27), NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductases B and C (PORB and PORC), 3,8-divinyl protochlorophyllide reductase (DVR), and chlorophyll synthase (CHLG) CITATION (CITATION). It seemed conceivable that these enzymes form a super-complex, channeling intermediates of chlorophyll synthesis with FLU being a regulatory subunit. In such a case these enzymes should also be present in gel sections containing the 700–800kDa FLU-containing complex. However, among the 72 proteins detected in this portion of the gel only FLU, CHL27, PORB, PORC, and DVR were present but not CHLM and CHLG (Dataset S1). Out of the 72 proteins co-migrating with FLU at 700–800kDa, 61 also co-migrated at 200kDa (Dataset S1). This suggests that the 700–800kDa complex represents a multimer/aggregate of the 200kDa unit rather than a completely different FLU-containing complex or a variant of the 200kDa complex that contains additional protein subunits. In addition, the eleven proteins that were uniquely present only at the 700–800kDa position of the gel are not known to form complexes or to be functionally related with each other (Dataset S1; www.arabidopsis.org). If our assumption is correct, partners of FLU should be present among the 61 proteins co-migrating with FLU at 200kDa and at 700–800kDa (Dataset S1). Thirty-three of the 61 proteins belong to known chloroplast protein complexes, such as PSI and PSII, cytochrome b6f, ATP synthase, RUBISCO (Dataset S1). These proteins are unlikely to be partners of FLU, as FLU was not found to co-migrate with any of the known complexes (CITATIONB, CITATION). Since most of the 33 proteins are very abundant in the Arabidopsis leaf proteome CITATION (www.atproteome.ethz.ch), they probably represent minor contaminants throughout the gel. Among the remaining 28 proteins (Dataset S1), the three enzymes, CHL27, PORB and PORC, involved in the final steps of Chl synthesis CITATION (CITATION), were considered as the most likely candidates for building a complex with FLU. Physical interactions between FLU and these three enzymes were tested by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). For Co-IP experiments, a flu line was used that had been complemented with a FLU-HA fusion under the control of the 35S promoter (flu/FLU-HA) CITATION. Wild type served as a control. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from plants grown for 20 days under 16h light/8h dark cycles and then transferred for the last 24h to continuous light. Chloroplasts were solubilized with dodecyl-β-d-maltoside and incubated with the antibody against the HA-tag and protein A-sepharose. After washing protein A-sepharose, eluting bound proteins and separating them by SDS-PAGE, the entire gel lines were used for in-gel digestion. Resulting peptides were identified by LC-MS/MS. The experiment was repeated twice. As expected, in both experiments the FLU protein was found to be highly abundant in the sample obtained from flu/FLU-HA but was not present in the wild type sample (Dataset S2). Only proteins that were present in the flu/FLU-HA samples and absent in the wild type controls of both experiments were considered as co-immunoprecipitating with FLU. A total of 15 such proteins were found (Dataset S2). PORB and PORC were among them, both with two peptides in the two experiments (Dataset S2). CHL27 was also found co-immunoprecipitating with FLU (one and four peptides in the two experiments) (Dataset S2). Proteins that form a stable complex with FLU would be expected not only to co-immunoprecipitate but also to co-migrate during BNGE. The list of the 15 proteins co-immunoprecipitating with FLU was compared with the list of the 61 proteins co-migrating with FLU on a blue native gel at 200kDa and at 700–800kDa. Five of these proteins, CHL27, PORB, PORC, geranylgeranyl reductase, and the large subunit of RUBISCO (RBCL) co-immunoprecipitated and co-migrated with FLU (Dataset S3, bold letters). RBCL, being a very abundant protein in Arabidospsis leaves CITATION is most probably a contaminant and not a specific FLU-interacting partner. Thus, CHL27, PORB, PORC and geranylgeranyl reductase were considered as possible candidates to build a complex with FLU (CITATION ). All these proteins had previously already been found to be associated with chloroplast membranes CITATION. The sum of the molecular weights of FLU, PORB, PORC, CHL27, and geranylgeranyl reductase would be slightly less than 200kDa, if each of these proteins were present with a single copy. As the stoichiometry of putative subunits of the complex has not been determined yet, at present formation of dimers of some of these proteins cannot be excluded. The reliability of the co-immunoprecipitation assay was tested more vigorously for one of the putative constituents of the FLU-containing complex, the cyclase (CHL 27). Intact chloroplasts of wild type and flu were solubilized with dodecyl-β-d-maltoside and incubated with the FLU-specific antibody and protein A-sepharose. After washing the sepharose and elution, SDS-PAGE and blotting of bound proteins, FLU-specific and CHL27-specific antibodies were used for detection of FLU and CHL27. As expected, FLU was immunoprecipitated only from the solubilized chloroplasts of wild type but not from flu (CITATION A). With the CHL27-specific antibody, a protein with the expected 40kDa molecular weight of mature CHL27 was detected in the wild type but not in the flu samples (CITATIONA). In a second experiment, chloroplasts of the flu/FLU-HA line and wild type were analyzed. In this case, immunoprecipitation was done with the antibody against the HA-tag. For detection of proteins on Western blots, the FLU- and CHL27-specific antibodies were used. FLU was immunoprecipitated from the solubilized chloroplasts of flu/FLU-HA but not from wild type that served as a negative control (CITATIONB). CHL27 was detected in the flu/FLU-HA but not in the wild type samples (CITATIONB). These results are in agreement with those obtained when LC-MS/MS was used for detection of proteins. Finally, the CHL27-specific antibody or pre-immune serum was used for immunoprecipitation. With the CHL27-specific antibody, similar amounts of CHL27 were immunoprecipitated from the solubilized chloroplasts of wild type and flu (CITATIONC). Hence, in light-grown plants CHL27 levels were not affected by the lack of the FLU protein. CHL27 was not detected on Western blot when immunoprecipitation was performed with the pre-immune serum (CITATIONC). FLU was detected only in the wild type sample when the CHL27-specific antibody had been used for immunoprecipitation (CITATIONC). Altogether, the co-immunoprecipitation of FLU and CHL27 confirms the reliability of the co-immunoprecipitation assay and strongly supports the notion that CHL27 forms part of the FLU-containing 200kDa complex. FLU was previously reported to interact with GluTR (HEMA1) and negatively regulate Pchlide formation in the dark CITATION. In the BNGE and co-immunoprecipitation experiments performed with chloroplast extracts of plants grown in continuous light, we could not identify HEMA1 (Dataset S1 and S2). Therefore we performed an additional co-immunoprecipitation experiment with chloroplast extracts of light-grown plants that had been transferred to darkness for four hours. Analysis by LC-MS/MS revealed 49 proteins co-immunoprecipitating with FLU in the dark (Dataset S4). In addition to FLU, PORB, PORC, CHL27, and geranylgeranyl reductase, we also identified HEMA1 thus suggesting that FLU interacts with HEMA1 only in the absence of light (CITATION).
!~MM~! A detailed description of the methods that were used in this study is provided in the CITATION.
