!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) RESISTANCE TO PSEUDOMONAS SYRINGAE5 (RPS5) disease resistance protein mediates recognition of the Pseudomonas syringae effector protein AvrPphB. RPS5 belongs to the coiled-coil-nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat (CC-NBS-LRR) family and is activated by AvrPphB-mediated cleavage of the protein kinase PBS1. Here, we present a structure-function analysis of the CC and LRR domains of RPS5 using transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana. We found that substituting the CC domain of RPS2 for the RPS5 CC domain did not alter RPS5 specificity and only moderately reduced its ability to activate programmed cell death, suggesting that the CC domain does not play a direct role in the recognition of PBS1 cleavage. Analysis of an RPS5-super Yellow Fluorescent Protein fusion revealed that RPS5 localizes to the plasma membrane (PM). Alanine substitutions of predicted myristoylation (glycine-2) and palmitoylation (cysteine-4) residues affected RPS5 PM localization, protein stability, and function in an additive manner, indicating that PM localization is essential to RPS5 function. The first 20 amino acids of RPS5 were sufficient for directing super Yellow Fluorescent Protein to the PM. C-terminal truncations of RPS5 revealed that the first four LRR repeats are sufficient for inhibiting RPS5 autoactivation; however, the complete LRR domain was required for the recognition of PBS1 cleavage. Substitution of the RPS2 LRR domain resulted in the autoactivation of RPS5, indicating that the LRR domain must coevolve with the NBS domain. We conclude that the RPS5 LRR domain functions to suppress RPS5 activation in the absence of PBS1 cleavage and promotes RPS5 activation in its presence.
!~RES~! To evaluate the role of the RPS5 CC domain in the recognition of PBS1 cleavage and induction of the HR, we swapped the CC domain of RPS5 with the CC domain of RPS2, which mediates the recognition of a different P. syringae effector, AvrRpt2 (CITATION). Based on BLASTP analysis (CITATION), the RPS5 CC domain shows the highest amino acid similarity (45%) to RPS2 among the Arabidopsis R proteins of known function. This is consistent with a previous phylogenetic analysis that assigned RPS2 and RPS5 to the same clade distinguished by the lack of an EDVID motif found in the CC domain of most other CC-NBS-LRR proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we hypothesized that RPS2 and RPS5 might share a similar signaling mechanism and that the RPS2 and RPS5 CC domains might be functionally interchangeable. We substituted the RPS2 CC domain (amino acids 1–153) for the RPS5 CC domain (amino acids 1–154) to create a chimeric protein, which we refer to as 2-5-5 (for RPS2 CC and RPS5 NBS-LRR). It has been previously shown that overexpression of the RPS2 protein by itself in N. benthamiana causes a cell death response similar to the HR response induced by RPS2 in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, we first tested whether the 2-5-5 chimera could induce HR by itself. Unlike RPS2, the 2-5-5 chimera was not autoactive (Supplemental Fig. S1A). The 2-5-5 chimera also did not induce HR when coexpressed with only PBS1 or only AvrPphB. However, when the 2-5-5 protein was coexpressed with PBS1 and AvrPphB, a typical HR was observed (Fig. 1A). HR induction required the cleavage of PBS1 by AvrPphB, as coexpression with PBS1 and C98S, a protease-inactive mutant of AvrPphB, failed to initiate HR (Fig. 1A). This indicates that the RPS2 CC can functionally substitute for the RPS5 CC in N. benthamiana transient assays. However, when we tested the reciprocal construct (5-2-2), no autoactive HR-inducing activity was observed (data not shown), indicating that these two CC domains are not fully interchangeable. We were unable to test the activation of the 5-2-2 construct by AvrRpt2 and RIN4 in N. benthamiana, as we found that AvrRpt2 by itself induced HR. Significantly, overexpression of either the RPS5 CC or the RPS2 CC domain alone was not sufficient to induce cell death, even when fused to eGFP to enhance protein accumulation (Supplemental Fig. S1, D and F), indicating that the CC domains by themselves are not sufficient for HR activation, unlike the CC domains of barley (Hordeum vulgare) Mla10, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) NRG1, and Arabidopsis ADR1, which have recently been reported to induce cell death in N. benthamiana when overexpressed (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We next asked whether the RPS2 CC domain could substitute for the RPS5 CC domain in the context of the autoactive RPS5 mutant D266E (CITATION). The resulting chimeric protein 2-5(D266E)-5 lost the autoactivation phenotype, indicating that the RPS2 CC domain is not fully functional in this context (Fig. 1B). Interestingly, when the 2-5(D266E)-5 chimera was coexpressed with PBS1 and AvrPphB, a strong HR was observed (Fig. 1B). This HR depended on PBS1 cleavage, as coexpression with PBS1 and C98S did not trigger HR (Supplemental Fig. S1B). These observations indicate that substitution of the RPS2 CC domain for the RPS5 CC domain reduces the efficiency of RPS5 activation and/or signaling. They also indicate that the activation of RPS5 caused by the D266E mutation is weaker than that triggered by PBS1 cleavage. We have previously shown that deletion of the LRR domain of RPS5 causes RPS5 to be autoactive in N. benthamiana (CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether deletion of the LRR domain from the 2-5-5 chimera (generating a 2-5 chimera) would lead to autoactivation. Like the 2-5(D266E)-5 chimera, the 2-5 chimeric protein was not autoactive (Fig. 1C), despite substantial protein accumulation (Supplemental Fig. S2A). Surprisingly, introduction of the D266E mutation into the 2-5 chimera [2-5(D266E)] restored autoactivity (Fig. 1C). Therefore, deletion of the LRR and the D266E substitution have additive effects on autoactivation, and neither one alone is sufficient to overcome the loss of efficiency associated with substitution of the RPS2 CC domain for the RPS5 CC domain. We have previously reported that PBS1 can be coimmunoprecipitated with the RPS5 CC domain (CITATION), suggesting that the CC domain may play a role in the recognition of PBS1 cleavage. We thus tested whether the RPS2 CC domain can also be coprecipitated with PBS1. Consistent with the observed function of the 2-5-5 chimera in N. benthamiana, the RPS2 CC domain did indeed coimmunoprecipitate with PBS1 (Supplemental Fig. S3A). The ability of PBS1 to coimmunoprecipitate with the RPS2 CC domain suggests that the interaction between PBS1 and the RPS5 and RPS2 CC domains may be indirect, or alternatively that there is sufficient similarity between RPS5 and RPS2 CC domains for PBS1 to bind to both when transiently overexpressed. Under native expression levels, however, the RPS2 CC domain cannot substitute for the RPS5 CC domain, as transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the 2-5-5 chimera driven by the native RPS5 promoter failed to display an HR when challenged with P. syringae strain DC3000 (AvrPphB; data not shown). This result is consistent with the observed reduction in HR observed for the 2-5D266E-5 chimera in the transient system (Fig. 1B) and suggests that the 2-5-5 chimera falls below a threshold required for HR induction when expressed under native protein levels. RPS5 contains both a predicted myristoylation motif at Gly-2 and a palmitoylation motif at Cys-4. It also contains a Gly at position 3 that could be potentially myristoylated if Gly-2 were removed. To investigate the importance of acylation in RPS5 function, we mutated the Gly residues at positions 2 and 3 to Ala (G2/3A) and the Cys at position 4 to Ala (C4A), both as separate mutations and combined. G2/3A-RPS5 was still able to activate HR in response to PBS1 cleavage by AvrPphB when transiently overexpressed in N. benthamiana (Fig. 2A). However, the G2/3A substitution nearly eliminated the autoactivity of the full-length RPS5 mutant D266E without affecting protein accumulation at 4 h post induction (Supplemental Fig. S2B). Like the 2-5(D266E)-5 chimera, the G2/3A-D266E construct could be activated by coexpression with PBS1 and AvrPphB (Fig. 2A). These data indicate that the D266E substitution, which is believed to reduce ATP hydrolysis and increase the percentage of RPS5 in the ATP-bound state (CITATION), is not equivalent to activation by PBS1 cleavage. C4A-RPS5 and C4A-D266E behaved the same as the G2/3A derivatives, with both retaining the ability to be activated by coexpression with PBS1 and AvrPphB and C4A-D266E losing autoactivity (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Fig. S2C). Significantly, the triple substitution derivative G2/3AC4A-RPS5 was completely disabled for HR initiation even in the presence of PBS1 and AvrPphB (Fig. 2C). For a more quantitative assay of the HR mediated by RPS5 acylation mutants, we expressed each RPS5 derivative with PBS1 and AvrPphB and measured electrolyte leakage at 8 or 24 h post dexamethasone (DEX) induction. Compared with the negative control of super Yellow Fluorescent Protein (sYFP), wild-type RPS5 induced an obvious conductivity increase as early as 8 h post DEX induction (Fig. 2D). However, the G2/3AC4A mutation completely abolished RPS5-induced electrolyte leakage. Interestingly, the G2/3A-RPS5 mutant induced only a moderate conductivity increase at 8 h post DEX induction but an electrolyte leakage comparable to wild-type RPS5 at 24 h post DEX induction (Fig. 2D). This is consistent with the macroscopic HR assay. Taken together, these results suggest that N-terminal myristoylation and palmitoylation play additive and partially redundant roles in RPS5 function. [[FIGURE]] A possible explanation for the functional defect of RPS5 acylation mutants is that these modifications compromise interactions of the CC domain with PBS1 and/or with the NBS domain. We tested this possibility using Co-IP assays, but we observed no significant reduction in the ability of the RSP5 CC domain containing these substitutions to coimmunoprecipitate either PBS1 or the RPS5 NBS domain (Fig. 3). Likewise, the G2/3AC4A-RPS5 full-length protein retained the ability to interact with PBS1 (Supplemental Fig. S3B). Note, however, that these interactions may be occurring in solution following cell lysis and do not necessarily indicate that the G2/3AC4A derivatives colocalize with PBS1 inside the cell. [[FIGURE]] The requirement for myristoylation and palmitoylation motifs in RPS5 suggests that RPS5 must localize to a membrane to be functional. Therefore, we investigated the subcellular localization of RPS5. A C-terminal sYFP fusion of RPS5 was transiently expressed in N. benthamiana and visualized by laser scanning confocal microscopy. The RPS5:sYFP fusion induced HR when coexpressed with PBS1 and AvrPphB (Supplemental Fig. S1C), demonstrating that the addition of a C-terminal fluorescent tag did not impair RPS5 function. RPS5:sYFP displayed a peripheral localization when expressed in N. benthamiana epidermal cells (Fig. 4A), indicating localization to the PM. A three-dimensional (3D) projection of RPS5 from a Z-stack showed an even distribution of RPS5 on the PM, with no localization to cytoplasmic strands (visualized by coexpressing with free mCherry; Fig. 4A). In contrast, G2/3A-RPS5 displayed an accumulation of fluorescence in cytoplasmic strands but not in the nucleus (Fig. 4A), suggesting that RPS5 lacks a functional nuclear localization signal. Cytoplasmic localization was also observed for the C4A-RPS5:sYFP fusion (Supplemental Fig. S4A) and G2/3AC4A-RPS5:sYFP (Fig. 4A), indicating that both myristoylation and palmitoylation contribute to the PM localization. [[FIGURE]] The above imaging was performed at 6 to 8 h post DEX induction. To gain more insight into the dynamics of RPS5 localization, we also analyzed samples at 24 h post DEX induction. Surprisingly, at this time point, G2/3A-RPS5 displayed a wild-type-like localization pattern in the majority of cells analyzed. This was manifested as both a peripheral localization in a single confocal section and PM distribution in the 3D projection (Fig. 4A). The same pattern was also observed for C4A-RPS5 at 24 h post DEX induction (data not shown). These observations indicate that modification of just one acylation site significantly reduces, but does not completely abolish, RPS5 localization to the PM. This partial PM localization likely accounts for the HR-inducing ability of G2/3A-RPS5 or C4A-RPS5 in the presence of PBS1 cleavage by AvrPphB (Fig. 2). Although both G2/3A-RPS5:sYFP and C4A-RPS5:sYFP were easily detected using laser scanning confocal microscopy at 24 h post DEX induction, G2/3AC4A-RPS5:sYFP was not visible (data not shown). This observation suggested that when not membrane associated, RPS5 protein may be destabilized and degraded. To test this, we compared the relative levels of G2/3A-RPS5:myc and G2/3AC4A-RPS5:myc proteins with wild-type RPS5:myc protein at 6 or 24 h post DEX induction. At 6 h post induction, both G2/3A-RPS5:myc and G2/3AC4A-RPS5:myc proteins accumulated to levels similar to wild-type RPS5:myc protein (Fig. 4B). By 24 h post DEX induction, however, G2/3A-RPS5:myc levels were significantly reduced compared with wild-type RPS5:myc, and G2/3AC4A-RPS5:myc was nearly undetectable (Fig. 4B); only a very weak band showed up after overexposure (data not shown). Thus, the stability of RPS5 protein during transient overexpression correlates with PM localization. Note that the initial signs of HR are usually apparent by 8 h post DEX treatment, at a time when total protein accumulation is similar between wild-type and mutant constructs. We thus infer that the reduction in HR caused by the acylation mutations is due to the reduction in PM localization rather than a reduction in protein levels. Since the 2-5(D266E)-5 chimera only triggered HR when coexpressed with PBS1 and AvrPphB, but not by itself, and the RPS2 CC domain contains a predicted palmitoylation residue, but no myristoylation residue, we hypothesized that the 2-5-5 chimera might be only partially associated with the PM, thus reducing signaling activity. To test this, we analyzed the subcellular localization of 2-5-5:sYFP; however, 2-5-5:sYFP was exclusively localized to the PM (Supplemental Fig. S4B), indicating that the absence of autoactivity in the 2-5(D266E)-5 background cannot be attributed to dissociation from the PM. To further define the PM localization signal of RPS5, we generated C-terminal sYFP fusions to the CC domain, NBS domain, and NBS-LRR region of RPS5. As expected, only the CC:sYFP fusion localized to the PM (Fig. 5; data not shown). A 3D projection of a CC:sYFP Z-stack revealed the presence of punctate structures in addition to a PM localization profile. Similarly, a RPS2 CC:eGFP fusion was also found to localize to the PM (Supplemental Fig. S4C), which is consistent with previous findings that wild-type RPS2 is associated with the membrane fraction in Arabidopsis cell extracts (CITATION). We next fused only the first 20 amino acids of RPS5 to sYFP (N20AA:sYFP) to test whether the predicted N-terminal acylation motifs were sufficient to direct PM localization. Similar to RPS5 CC:sYFP, the N20AA:sYFP fusion displayed a typical PM localization pattern along with the presence of numerous punctate structures in the 3D projection view (Fig. 5). Time-lapse imaging showed that the punctate structures observed for RPS5 CC:sYFP and N20AA:sYFP were highly mobile, suggesting that they might be vesicle-like structures (data not shown). The formation of physiologically inert vesicles as a consequence of overexpression has been reported for other membrane-associated GFP fusions, particularly those with an acylation motif (CITATION; CITATION). Unlike free mCherry, no intranuclear fluorescence was observed for the N20AA:sYFP fusion (Fig. 5). PM localization of the N20AA:sYFP fusion depends on the acylation motifs, as the triple substitution G2/3AC4A abolished the PM localization of the sYFP fusion (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] The association of the N20AA:sYFP fusion with the PM provided us with an ideal negative control for Co-IP experiments involving membrane-associated proteins. Therefore, we performed Co-IP analysis between an N20AA:sYFP:myc fusion and PBS1:HA (for hemagglutinin), RPS5-CC:HA, and RPS5-NBS:HA protein fusions. No Co-IPs were detected for any of these combinations, although a co-IP was observed for the positive control of RPS5-CC:myc and PBS1:HA (Supplemental Fig. S3C), demonstrating the utility of this N20AA:sYFP fusion as a negative control for Co-IP assays. A positive role for the LRR in NBS-LRR protein activation has been reported for the R proteins Rx and Mi1.2 (CITATION; CITATION). Determining whether the RPS5 LRR domain contributes positively to RPS5 activation is complicated by the finding that deletion of the entire LRR domain leads to autoactivation of RPS5 (CITATION). To circumvent this problem, we introduced the G2/3A mutation into the RPS5 CC-NBS and CC-NBS(D266E) derivatives, hoping that this would suppress their autoactivation phenotype. Indeed, both G2/3A-CC-NBS and G2/3A-CC-NBS(D266E) lost the autoactivation phenotype (Fig. 6A), while protein accumulation was unaffected (Supplemental Fig. S2D). Unlike the full-length G2/3-RPS5 and G2/3-D266E (Fig. 2), coexpression of G2/3A-CC-NBS or G2/3-CC-NBS(D266E) with PBS1 and AvrPphB failed to induce an HR (Fig. 6A). These observations indicate that the RPS5 LRR domain plays a positive regulatory role in RPS5 activity in addition to its known negative regulatory role in preventing RPS5 CC-NBS autoactivation. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the positive regulatory role of the RPS5 LRR is sequence specific, we swapped the RPS2 LRR (amino acids 508–919) for the RPS5 LRR (amino acids 513–889), creating a 5-5-2 chimera. Interestingly, this 5-5-2 chimera proved to be autoactive (Fig. 6B). This observation is consistent with findings from other NBS-LRR proteins (CITATION; CITATION), which suggests that the NBS and LRR domains coevolve and that negative regulation requires precise interactions between the NBS and LRR domains. To identify the minimum RPS5 LRR region required to inhibit RPS5 autoactivation, five C-terminal truncation mutants of different LRR lengths were created (Fig. 7A). Transient expression of RPS5 CC-NBS-3LRR (amino acids 1–577), incorporating the CC-NBS domain plus the first three LRRs, induced a strong HR similar to the CC-NBS construct lacking the entire LRR domain (Fig. 7, B and C). However, with the addition of the fourth LRR (CC-NBS-4LRR; amino acids 1–605), the HR was dramatically suppressed, although protein accumulation was similar (Supplemental Fig. S2E). There was no obvious tissue collapse in the CC-NBS-4LRR injected area, and only some mild isolated cell death was observed (Fig. 7C). Constructs with longer LRR fragments displayed similar phenotypes (Fig. 7C). Consistent with the macroscopic observations, electrolyte leakage measurements demonstrated a strong conductivity increase for the CC-NBS-3LRR construct but only moderate or mild conductivity increases for other RPS5 C-terminal truncation mutants (Fig. 7B). Hence, the first four LRRs appear to be the minimum region required to suppress RPS5 autoactivation. [[FIGURE]] Because the C-terminal truncation constructs with four or more LRR repeats were not autoactive, we were able to test whether they could be activated by cleavage of PBS1. None of these constructs was capable of inducing HR in the presence of PBS1 and AvrPphB (Fig. 7D), indicating that they are unable to recognize PBS1 cleavage. To further assess the role of different LRRs in the recognition of PBS1 cleavage, we constructed a second series of mutants by introducing internal deletions of three LRRs at different sites (RPS5Δ1-3LRR, deletion of amino acids 513–579; RPS5Δ4-6LRR, deletion of amino acids 583–650; RPS5Δ7-9LRR, deletion of amino acids 651–734; RPS5Δ10-12LRR, deletion of amino acids 735–819; and RPS5Δ13LRR, deletion of amino acids 820–889). These mutants did not display an autoactive phenotype (data not shown). Next, we tested whether these mutants were still functional in recognizing cleavage of PBS1 by AvrPphB. None of these mutants induced HR in response to PBS1 cleavage (Fig. 8), although protein accumulated to levels similar to wild-type RPS5 (Supplemental Fig. S2F). To exclude the possibility that these mutants were actually defective in signaling rather than in PBS1 cleavage recognition, the same mutations were introduced into the autoactive RPS5 mutant D266E (i.e. D266EΔ1-3LRR, D266EΔ4-6LRR, D266EΔ7-9LRR, D266EΔ10-12LRR, and D266EΔ13LRR). All of these D266E derivatives retained their autoactivity (Fig. 8), indicating that these internal LRR deletions compromised the recognition of PBS1 cleavage but not RPS5 signaling ability. Collectively, these results indicate that an intact RPS5 LRR domain is required for the recognition of PBS1 cleavage. Conversely, suppression of autoactivation is dependent on a minimum length of the RPS5 LRR region. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Nicotiana benthamiana and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in Metro-Mix 360 (Sun Gro Horticulture) under a 9-h/15-h photoperiod at 150 μmol m−2 s−1 and 23°C. An adapted multisite Gateway cloning strategy (Invitrogen) was used to generate RPS5 fusions with a 5× Myc tag or sYFP. The wild-type RPS5 open reading frame was PCR amplified from a plasmid template and cloned into the donor vector pBSDONR P1-P4 (an ampicillin-resistant vector derived from pDONR221 P1-P4 from Invitrogen) using the BP cloning Kit (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY ). RPS5 CC derivatives were cloned by amplifying the first 549 nucleotides of the RPS5 open reading frame followed by cloning into pBSDONR P1-P4 using BP clonase. RPS2-RPS5 chimeras were generated using a recombination PCR protocol. All N-terminal acylation mutants of RPS5 were created by PCR amplification with forward primers containing the desired mutations followed by BP cloning into the pBSDONR P1-P4. RPS5 CC-NBS derivatives were generated by PCR amplification of nucleotides 1 to 1,536 followed by BP cloning into pBSDONR P1-P4. Similarly, the RPS5 C-terminal truncation mutants were generated by amplifying the desired fragment followed by BP cloning. The LRR internal deletions and substitutions were introduced using an established mutagenesis PCR protocol (CITATION). 5× Myc, 3× HA, and sYFP tags were BP cloned into pBSDONR P4r-P2 (an ampicillin-resistant vector derived from pDONR221 P4r-P3r and pDONR22 P3-P2). To create protein fusions with epitope tags or fluorescent proteins, the desired P1-P4 clone, P4r-P2 clone, and destination vector containing attR1 and attR2 sites were mixed in an approximately 2:2:1 ratio, and recombination was accomplished by using the LR cloning Kit (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY). The C-terminal HA-tagged RPS5 CC domain, RPS5 NBS domain, and PBS1 were generated by traditional ligation as described previously (CITATION). pTA7002-based DEX-inducible constructs were used for transient expression in N. benthamiana (CITATION). All constructs were sequenced for verification. All primers used to generate the above constructs are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90) strains carrying pTA7002 DEX-inducible constructs were grown and prepared for transient expression as described previously (CITATION). Agrobacterium cultures were resuspended in water to an optical density at 600 nm (OD600) of 1.0. For single-construct expression, the suspensions were diluted to OD600 of 0.3 before infiltration. For coexpression of multiple constructs, suspensions were mixed in equal ratios before infiltration, such that each strain was present at an OD600 of 0.3. Bacterial suspensions were infiltrated into leaves of 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants with a needleless syringe. Transgene expression was induced by spraying the infiltrated leaves with a 50 μm DEX (Sigma) solution at 40 h post injection. Tissues were collected for protein extraction approximately 4 h post DEX induction, unless stated otherwise. Laser scanning confocal microscopy was performed at 6 to 8 h post DEX induction unless stated otherwise. HR was scored at 24 h post DEX induction. For ion leakage measurements, leaf discs were punched at 3 h post DEX induction. For each replicate, 16 discs were briefly washed with distilled water, dried on paper towels, and then floated in 5 mL of distilled water with 0.001% Tween 20. Conductivity was measured at the indicated time points. Data represent averages and sd of three replicates, and the entire experiment was repeated at least twice with similar results. For total protein extraction, six infiltrated leaves were ground in lysis buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, and Plant Proteinase Inhibitor Cocktail [Sigma]). Homogenates were centrifuged twice at 13,000 rpm at 4°C for 10 min, and supernatants were transferred to new tubes. For immunoblots, crude extracts were mixed with 4× SDS loading buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 10% glycerol, 1% β-mercaptoethanol, 12.5 mm EDTA, and 0.02% bromphenol blue) at a ratio of 3:1 and boiled for 10 min before resolving by SDS-PAGE. Immunoprecipitations were performed as described previously (CITATION) using an anti-c-Myc monoclonal antibody matrix (Clontech). The immunocomplexes were resuspended in 50 μL of 1× SDS loading buffer and boiled for 10 min. All protein samples were resolved on 4% to 20% gradient Tris-HEPES-SDS polyacrylamide gels (Thermo Scientific) and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane for probing with anti-c-Myc-peroxidase (Roche) or anti-HA-peroxidase (Sigma). The ImmunoStar HRP Substrate Kit (Bio-Rad) was used for detecting antibody complexes. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed on an SP5 AOBS inverted confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a 63× numerical aperture 1.2 water objective. sYFP fusions were excited with a 514-nm argon laser and detected using a 522- to 545-nm band-pass emission filter. mCherry was excited using a 561-nm helium-neon laser and detected using a custom 595- to 620-nm band-pass emission filter. To obtain 3D images, a series of Z-stack images were collected and then combined and processed using the 3D image-analysis software IMARIS 7.0 (Bitplane Scientific Software; http://www.bitplane.com). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL databases under accession numbers NC_003070 (RPS5), NC_003076 (PBS1), NC_003074 (RPS2), and AJ870974 (AvrPphB). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. HR tests of various RPS5 derivatives. Supplemental Figure S2. Immunoblot analysis of RPS5 derivatives transiently expressed in N. benthamiana. Supplemental Figure S3. Supplemental Co-IP assays. Supplemental Figure S4. Laser scanning confocal microscopy of RPS5 and RPS2 derivatives. Supplemental Figure S5. Addition of nuclear exclusion signals does not reduce RPS5 HR-inducing activity in N. benthamiana transient assays. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in plasmid construction.
