!~ABS~! During leaf senescence, plants degrade chlorophyll to colorless linear tetrapyrroles that are stored in the vacuole of senescing cells. The early steps of chlorophyll breakdown occur in plastids. To date, five chlorophyll catabolic enzymes (CCEs), NONYELLOW COLORING1 (NYC1), NYC1-LIKE, pheophytinase, pheophorbide a oxygenase (PAO), and red chlorophyll catabolite reductase, have been identified; these enzymes catalyze the stepwise degradation of chlorophyll to a fluorescent intermediate, pFCC, which is then exported from the plastid. In addition, STAY-GREEN (SGR), Mendel’s green cotyledon gene encoding a chloroplast protein, is required for the initiation of chlorophyll breakdown in plastids. Senescence-induced SGR binds to light-harvesting complex II (LHCII), but its exact role remains elusive. Here, we show that all five CCEs also specifically interact with LHCII. In addition, SGR and CCEs interact directly or indirectly with each other at LHCII, and SGR is essential for recruiting CCEs in senescing chloroplasts. PAO, which had been attributed to the inner envelope, is found to localize in the thylakoid membrane. These data indicate a predominant role for the SGR-CCE-LHCII protein interaction in the breakdown of LHCII-located chlorophyll, likely to allow metabolic channeling of phototoxic chlorophyll breakdown intermediates upstream of nontoxic pFCC.
!~RES~! During leaf senescence, SGR and five CCEs (RCCR, PAO, PPH, NYC1, and NOL) have been identified as essential components of chlorophyll degradation (CITATION). For this study, we produced Arabidopsis transgenic lines that constitutively expressed SGR or one of the five CCEs as fusion proteins with green fluorescent protein (GFP), tandem affinity purification (TAP), or glutathione S-transferase (GST) tags (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Transgenic lines with the highest levels of transgene expression were selected, and correct sizes of fusion proteins were verified by immunoblot analysis using antibodies against GFP (α-GFP), myc (α-myc; for TAP detection), and GST (α-GST). All the GFP-tagged SGR and CCEs were mostly detected in membrane-enriched fractions and barely in soluble fractions of total protein extracts (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To examine the effects of constitutive expression of GFP-tagged CCEs on chlorophyll degradation during leaf senescence, we used 3-week-old plants to dark-induce senescence in either whole plants (Figure 1A) or detached leaves (Figure 1B). Before dark incubation (0 d of dark incubation [DDI]), chlorophyll levels and chlorophyll a/b ratios (Table 1) of these transgenic plants were almost indistinguishable from the wild-type plants. However, accelerated leaf yellowing (Figure 1) and reduced levels of chlorophyll (Table 1) were observed at 4 DDI in both whole plants and detached leaves compared with the wild-type plants. In addition, because of an assumingly enhanced chlorophyll b reductase activity, 35S:NYC1-GFP and 35S:NOL-GFP plants exhibited higher chlorophyll a/b ratios (Table 1). These plants exhibited a similar phenotype under natural senescence conditions (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Furthermore, using the 35S:PPH-GFP line, we analyzed mRNA levels of SGR and the other chlorophyll catabolic genes in green and senescence-induced leaves (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). After senescence induction, SGR, RCCR, PAO, and NYC1, but not NOL, were significantly higher expressed in the PPH-GFP overexpressing plants than in the wild-type plants. These results indicate that constitutive expression of GFP-tagged CCEs is not sufficient to activate chlorophyll degradation during vegetative growth, but significantly accelerates chlorophyll degradation during leaf senescence, likely through transcriptional coactivation of other genes of the pathway. [[FIGURE]] Chlorophyll Levels of 3-Week-Old Transgenic Arabidopsis Plants Expressing Tagged Versions of SGR and CCEs Previously, we showed that SGR interacts with LHCII in vitro and in vivo (CITATION). Using α-GFP–conjugated beads for in vivo pull-down assays with membrane-enriched fractions of nonsenescent (0 DDI) or senescence-induced (3 DDI) 35S:SGR-GFP plants, we found that SGR-GFP, which is constitutively present in this line, interacts with LHCII regardless of the senescence conditions (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). We extended this analysis by testing whether CCEs also interact with LHCII and/or other photosystem proteins. For this, we performed in vivo pull-down assays with nonsenescent (0 DDI) GFP- or GST-tagged transgenic plants using α-GFP– and α-GST–conjugated beads, respectively, followed by immunoblot analysis with antibodies against three photosystem proteins (α-Lhcb1, α-Lhca1, and α-CP43). Like SGR (Figure 2A), all five CCE proteins were coimmunoprecipitated with Lhcb1, but not with Lhca1 or CP43 (Figures 2B to 2F), indicating that not only SGR but also chloroplast-located CCEs bind to LHCII at the thylakoid membrane. [[FIGURE]] The interaction of SGR and the five CCEs with LHCII indicated the formation of a large chlorophyll catabolic complex for chlorophyll breakdown during leaf senescence. To investigate this possibility, 35S:PPH-GFP plants were employed for in vivo pull-down assays. To this end, intact plants were senescence-induced by 3 DDI, and the membrane-enriched fractions were treated with α-GFP–conjugated beads. As revealed using α-SGR, α-RCCR, α-PAO, α-NYC1, and α-NOL, we found that all tested endogenous proteins (i.e., SGR, RCCR, PAO, NYC1, and NOL) were coimmunoprecipitated with PPH-GFP (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] Although the results shown in Figure 3 supported the possibility of multiprotein complex formation, they left the question open, whether the observed coimmunoprecipitation between SGR and CCEs solely occurred through their interaction with LHCII or through sole bilateral interaction between pulled PPH and the other proteins, or whether more complex patterns of direct interaction might exist among SGR and CCEs. For example, in vitro interactions of NYC1-NOL and PAO-RCCR have been reported (CITATION; CITATION). To address this, we first examined pairwise interactions among them by measuring β-galactosidase activity in yeast two-hybrid assays (see Methods for further details). We found significant interactions between SGR and each of the five CCEs and between RCCR and the other four CCEs (Figure 4). Among the latter CCEs (PAO, PPH, NYC1, and NOL), only interactions of PAO-PPH and NYC1-NOL were significant. To eliminate possible interference of the N-terminal chloroplast-targeting sequences of the proteins investigated in the yeast two-hybrid assays, we further examined pairwise interactions by in vitro pull-down assays using the membrane-enriched fractions of GFP-tagged transgenic lines (Figure 5; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The results were consistent with the yeast two-hybrid interactions (Figure 4). Together, these data strongly suggested that SGR (and possibly RCCR) may act as key players to recruit other CCEs into a possible multiprotein complex for rapid and safe chlorophyll breakdown during leaf senescence. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we used BiFC as an alternative method to analyze pairwise interactions among SGR and CCEs in vivo (Figure 6; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Different combinations of SGR-CCE proteins that were fused to either the N- or C-terminal half of yellow fluorescent protein (YFPn or YFPc, respectively) were cotransformed into mesophyll protoplasts isolated from 0 DDI green or 4 DDI senescent leaf tissues. As a positive control for protein–protein interaction that is unrelated to chlorophyll breakdown, we used the two halves of YFP fused to either phosphoribulokinase (PRK) or chloroplast protein 12 (CP12), two proteins that have been shown to form a complex in chloroplasts (CITATION) (Figure 6B). Most positive interactions among SGR and CCEs described above (Figures 4 and 5; see Supplemental Figure 5 online), including SGR-PAO and NYC1-NOL, also gave positive BiFC fluorescence signals (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). However, we were unable to verify the in vitro interaction of SGR-PPH or SGR-NOL, notably combinations that resulted in rather weak interaction in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 4). Surprisingly, YFP fluorescence signals were only obtained in protoplasts isolated from senescent leaves (4 DDI) but not in nonsenescent protoplasts (0 DDI) (Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] Based on yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down analysis, we suggested that SGR may act as a key player for protein interaction. In order to address this possibility, we analyzed in vivo interaction between PAO and RCCR in the Arabidopsis sgr mutant, nye1-1 (CITATION), by BiFC. In contrast with the wild type, YFP fluorescence was absent in senescent protoplasts of nye1-1. Functionality of the nye1-1 protoplasts was confirmed by positive YFP fluorescence when using the PRK/CP12 control. These results indicated that presence of SGR in senescing chloroplasts is a prerequisite for CCE protein interaction. Taking all the results together, we propose that SGR and CCEs interact directly and indirectly with each other to possibly form a large SGR-CCE-LHCII multiprotein complex at the thylakoid membrane during leaf senescence. Based on their primary structures, all CCEs except PAO and NYC1 are soluble proteins. NYC1 and NOL have been shown to localize at the thylakoid membrane in rice (CITATION). By contrast, PAO activity was attributed to the chloroplast envelope in barley (Hordeum vulgare; CITATION), and proteome analyses also favored envelope localization for PAO in Arabidopsis (CITATION). However, this proposed envelope localization of PAO conflicted with its proposed interaction with LHCII, SGR, and other CCEs at the thylakoid membrane as described here. Therefore, we readdressed the subchloroplast localization of PAO in mesophyll protoplasts by transiently expressing a PAO-GFP fusion protein (Figure 7). As a positive control for inner envelope localization, we used a GFP-tagged translocon at the inner chloroplast envelope 110 (TIC110-GFP), a component of the chloroplast protein import machinery. PAO-GFP fluorescence signals entirely overlapped with chlorophyll autofluorescence, whereas TIC110-GFP specifically labeled the chloroplast envelope (Figure 7A). In addition, using the wild-type plants, we separated chloroplast membranes by Suc density gradient centrifugation and investigated the distribution of PAO along with chloroplast membrane marker proteins by immunoblot analysis of individual density gradient fractions (Figure 7B). PAO clearly comigrated with chlorophyll a/b binding proteins (CAB) but not with an envelope (TOC75) or a plastoglobule (PGL35) marker. Together, these data indicate a thylakoid rather than an envelope localization of PAO, which is in agreement with the finding presented here that PAO is a component of a possible chlorophyll degrading protein complex at the thylakoid membrane. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type (Columbia-0 ecotype) and transgenic plants were grown on soil in a growth chamber at 21 to 22°C under cool-white fluorescent light (90 to 100 μmol photons m−2 s−1) under long-day (16 h light/8 h dark) conditions. For protoplast transformation and Suc density gradient centrifugation experiments, wild-type plants were grown for 5 and 8 weeks, respectively, at short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h dark) with fluence rates of 100 to 200 μmol photons m−2 s−1. Rosette leaves were used for pigment content, immunoblot, and pull-down analyses. For dark-induced senescence of whole plants, 3-week-old plants were transferred to complete darkness. After dark incubation, rosette leaves were sampled under weak green light. For dark treatment of detached leaves, the oldest but still green rosette leaves were incubated on wet filter paper soaked with 3 mM MES, pH 5.7, buffer in complete darkness at 23°C. Arabidopsis full-length cDNAs (no stop codon) of SGR, PPH, PAO, RCCR, NYC1, and NOL were PCR amplified. After insertion into the Gateway entry vector pCR8/GW/TOPO (Invitrogen), inserts were recombined into the binary Gateway vector pEarleyGate 103, thereby introducing a C-terminal GFP-His tag. In addition, using either pEarleyGate 205 (TAP tag) (CITATION) or pCAMBIA-GST (GST tag), we introduced alternative C-terminal tags. The primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. In all cases, transgene expression was driven by the constitutive 35S promoter. Arabidopsis transgenic plants (see Supplemental Table 1 online) were obtained by Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)–mediated transformation through a floral dipping method (CITATION). As negative controls, transgenic plants transformed with empty pEarleyGate 103 or pEarleyGate 205 or with a chlorophyllase 1 (CLH; At1g19670)-GST fusion construct were used. Transgenic plants were selected based on the highest expression of tagged proteins in 2 DDI leaf tissues as determined by immunoblot analysis using α-myc (for TAP detection; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), α-GST (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), or α-GFP (Abcam). The mRNA levels of SGR and CCE genes were measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Total RNA was extracted from the rosette leaves using the Total RNA Extraction Kit including RNase-free DNase (iNtRON Biotechnology). First-strand cDNA was synthesized with 5 μg of total RNA using M-MLV reverse transcriptase and an oligo(dT)15 primer (Promega) in 20 μL mixture. Then, the reaction was diluted fivefold with water and the cDNA used as template for qRT-PCR. The qRT-PCR mixture (20 μL) contained 2 μL of cDNA template, 10 μL of 2× LightCycler 480 SYBR Green I Master (Roche), and 0.25 μM of forward and reverse primers for each gene (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Reactions were performed using the Light Cycler 2.0 instrument (Roche Diagnostics). The transcript levels of each gene were normalized against those of GAPDH (glycerinaldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase; At1g16300) as previously reported (CITATION). Arabidopsis full-length cDNAs of SGR, NYC1, NOL, PPH, PAO, and RCCR in entry vectors were inserted into the destination vectors pDEST32 (bait) and pDEST22 (prey) (Invitrogen). The yeast strain MaV203 was used for cotransformation of the bait and prey clones, and β-galactosidase activity assays were performed by a liquid assay using chlorophenol red-β-d-galactoside (Roche Applied Science) according to the Yeast Protocols Handbook (Clontech). Full-length cDNAs of SGR and CCE genes were PCR amplified using Pfu polymerase (Promega) with the gene-specific primers listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The PCR products were digested with BspHI-NotI and cloned via NcoI-NotI into pSY728 and pSY738, respectively (CITATION), thereby producing C-terminal fusions with the N- and C-terminal halves of YFPs (YFPn and YFPc), respectively. After verifying the inserts by sequencing, constructs were used for BiFC studies. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from either green (0 DDI) or senescent leaves at 4 DDI according to published procedures (CITATION). Cell numbers were quantified with a Neubauer chamber and adjusted to a density of 2 × 106 protoplasts mL−1. Protoplasts were cotransformed with each two constructs by 20% polyethylene glycol transformation according to published procedures (CITATION). Twenty micrograms of plasmid of each construct was used. Transformed cells were incubated for 24 h in the dark at room temperature before laser scanning confocal microscopy analysis (DM IRE2; Leica Microsystems). YFP fluorescence was imaged at an excitation wavelength of 512 nm, and the emission signal was recovered between 525 and 565 nm. CP12-YFPc and PRK-YFPn constructs were used as a positive control for plastid colocalization. To examine the localization of PAO in chloroplasts, a full-length cDNA of PAO (CITATION) was PCR amplified using Pfu polymerase (Promega) with the primers listed in Supplemental Table 2 online and cloned into BamHI-SpeI–restricted pUC18-GFP5T-sp (CITATION), thereby producing a C-terminal fusion with GFP (PAO-GFP). Transient transformation of Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts and confocal microscopy analysis were performed as described above. GFP fluorescence was imaged at an excitation of 488 nm and emission between 495 and 530 nm. As a control for chloroplast envelope localization, a TIC110-GFP construct was employed (CITATION). Chlorophyll was extracted from rosette leaf tissues using ice-cold acetone. Extracts were centrifuged at 15,000 rpm for 10 min at 10°C. The supernatant was diluted with ice-cold water to the final acetone concentration of 80%. Chlorophyll was quantified spectrophotometrically as previously published (CITATION). Membrane and soluble proteins were extracted from rosette leaves using the Native Membrane Protein Extraction Kit (Calbiochem). Protein extracts were suspended with an equal volume of 2× sample buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 2 mM EDTA, 10% [w/v] glycerol, 2% SDS, and 6% 2-mercaptoethanol), denatured at 75°C for 3 min, and subjected to SDS-PAGE. For visualization of protein bands, gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (Sigma-Aldrich). The resolved proteins were electroblotted onto Immunobilon-P transfer membranes (Millipore). Antibodies against SGR (CITATION), RCCR (CITATION), PAO (CITATION), NYC1 and NOL (CITATION), GFP (Abcam), GST (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), TOC75 and PGL35 (CITATION), and photosystem protein antibodies (CAB [CITATION], Lhcba1, Lhcb1, and CP43; Agrisera, Sweden) were used for immunoblot analysis. Peroxidase activity of secondary antibodies was visualized using the chemiluminescence detection kit WEST SAVE (AbFRONTIER) or ImmunStar WesternC (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturers’ protocols. Three-week-old transgenic plants were homogenized with the Native Membrane Protein Extraction Kit (Calbiochem), and membrane-enriched fractions were pulled down using IgG or glutathione agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or α-GFP–conjugated beads (MBL). Precipitated beads were washed at least three times with washing buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.2, 200 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 2 mM EDTA, and 10% glycerol). Washed beads were boiled with 20 μL of 2× SDS sample buffer for 5 min and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. Intact chloroplasts were isolated and the chloroplast membrane fraction was prepared for density gradient centrifugation as described (CITATION). A linear gradient of Suc between 5 and 45% was employed to separate membrane fractions by centrifugation at 100,000g for 17 h (CITATION). One-milliliter fractions were collected starting from the top of the gradient and fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: SGR/NYE1, At4g22920; RCCR, At4g37000; NYC1, At4g13250; NOL, At5g04900; PPH, At5g13800; PAO, At3g44880; CLH, At1g19670; and GAPDH, At1g16300. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Subcellular Localization of SGR-GFP and CCE-GFP Fusion Proteins in Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 2. Natural Senescence of Arabidopsis SGR and CCE Overexpressors. Supplemental Figure 3. Expression Analysis of Genes Encoding SGR and four CCEs in Wild-Type and 35S:PPH-GFP Leaves by qRT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 4. Arabidopsis SGR Interacts with LHCII in Senescing as well as Nonsenescent Chloroplasts. Supplemental Figure 5. Interactions among CCEs by in Vitro Pull-Down Assays. Supplemental Figure 6. In Vivo Interactions among SGR and CCEs Analyzed by BiFC. Supplemental Figure 7. Possible Metabolic Channeling of Chlorophyll Catabolic Intermediates by Interaction of SGR, CCEs, and LHCII at the Thylakoid Membrane. Supplemental Table 1. Arabidopsis Transformants Expressing a Tagged Version of SGR and CCEs Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used in This Study.
