!~ABS~! Microtubules in eukaryotic cells are nucleated from ring-shaped complexes that contain γ-tubulin and a family of homologous γ-tubulin complex proteins (GCPs), but the subunit composition of the complexes can vary among fungi, animals and plants. Arabidopsis GCP3-interacting protein 1 (GIP1), a small protein with no homology to the GCP family, interacts with GCP3 in vitro, and is a plant homolog of vertebrate mitotic-spindle organizing protein associated with a ring of γ-tubulin 1 (MOZART1), a recently identified component of the γ-tubulin complex in human cell lines. In this study, we characterized two closely related Arabidopsis GIP1s: GIP1a and GIP1b. Single mutants of gip1a and gip1b were indistinguishable from wild-type plants, but their double mutant was embryonic lethal, and showed impaired development of male gametophytes. Functional fusions of GIP1a with green fluorescent protein (GFP) were used to purify GIP1a-containing complexes from Arabidopsis plants, which contained all the subunits (except NEDD1) previously identified in the Arabidopsis γ-tubulin complexes. GIP1a and GIP1b interacted specifically with Arabidopsis GCP3 in yeast. GFP-GIP1a labeled mitotic microtubule arrays in a pattern largely consistent with, but partly distinct from, the localization of the γ-tubulin complex containing GCP2 or GCP3 in planta. In interphase cortical arrays, the labeled complexes were preferentially recruited to existing microtubules, from which new microtubules were efficiently nucleated. However, in contrast to complexes labeled with tagged GCP2 or GCP3, their recruitment to cortical areas with no microtubules was rarely observed. These results indicate that GIP1/MOZART1 is an integral component of a subset of the Arabidopsis γ-tubulin complexes.
!~RES~! We first examined whether the two Arabidopsis GIP1 genes are differentially expressed. The β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter was expressed under the control of either the GIP1a promoter or the GIP1b promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, and the GUS activity was stained histochemically (Figure 1). In both transgenic lines, GUS staining was observed in all tissue types examined, but was considerably stronger in the shoot meristem, the root tips, the lateral root meristem and the vasculature. No gross differential expression patterns were observed between the promoter activities of GIP1a and GIP1b. The organ-specific gene expression profile databases in Arabidopsis (e.g. CITATION) also indicate that GIP1a and GIP1b are expressed in similar patterns. [[FIGURE]] To investigate biological functions of GIP1 genes, we isolated T-DNA insertion alleles for GIP1a and GIP1b. In the gip1a allele, T-DNA was inserted 75 bp from the beginning of the 5′ end of the first intron and accompanied by an 11-bp deletion, whereas the gip1b allele had a T-DNA insertion in the coding region of the second exon, 117 bp downstream from the translational start ATG codon, and also accompanied by a 15-bp deletion (Figure 2a). RT-PCR analysis revealed that the expression of GIP1a and GIP1b was not detectable in gip1a and gip1b, respectively (Figure 2b). Single mutants of GIP1 grew normally and did not show any obvious developmental and morphological defects (Figure S2), indicating that GIP1a and GIP1b may have redundant functions. When double heterozygous plants for gip1a and gip1b were self-pollinated, we could not recover double mutants homozygous for both gip1a and gip1b from the progeny (n = 114). The siliques of self-pollinated gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b and GIP1a/gip1a gip1b/gip1b plants contained desiccated ovules and aborted seeds (Figure 1c, arrowheads and arrows, respectively). Young green seeds harbored normally developing embryos, whereas in aborted seeds abnormal cell division patterns were observed in poorly developed embryos (Figure S3). [[FIGURE]] When GIP1a was fused to GFP, either at its N or C terminus, and expressed under the GIP1a promoter in gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b plants, we obtained transgenic plant lines that were homozygous for both gip1a and gip1b alleles, which grew normally and were almost indistinguishable from wild-type plants in development, morphology and fertility (Figures 2c and S4). Therefore, we conclude that the double homozygous mutants for GIP1a and GIP1b are responsible for the lethal embryo phenotype, and the GFP-fused forms of GIP1a are functional. To analyze the transmission efficiency of the gip1a gip1b allele through female and male gametes, we used plants that were homozygous for one allele and heterozygous for the other allele (gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b and GIP1a/gip1a gip1b/gip1b) in reciprocal crosses with wild-type plants (Table 1). When wild-type pollen was pollinated on pistils of gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b and GIP1a/gip1a gip1b/gip1b, 44.4 and 43.8% of the progeny plants (n = 72 and n = 48, respectively) carried the female-derived mutant alleles, instead of the 50% expected for full transmission. When pollen of gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b and GIP1a/gip1a gip1b/gip1b used for the cross to wild-type plants, the male-derived mutant alleles were recovered in 38.9 and 29.6% of the respective progeny (n = 72 and n = 71, respectively). Therefore, the transmission of gip1a gip1b was reduced considerably through the male side and moderately through the female side, indicating that the gip1a gip1b mutation affects the development and function of both male and female haploid gametophytes. Shrunken and aborted pollen grains were frequently observed in the anthers of gip1a/gip1a GIP1b/gip1b and GIP1a/gip1a gip1b/gip1b (Figure S5). To address whether GIP1/MOZART1 is a component of the Arabidopsis γTuRC, we pulled down GIP1-containing complexes from whole Arabidopsis seedlings expressing GIP1a-GFP or GFP-GIP1a in the gip1a gip1b homozygous double mutant background (see above), using GFP antibody-coupled beads. The purified preparations consisted of γ-tubulin and the GCP family proteins (GCP2–GCP6) (Figure 3; Table S1). Protein staining of the gels suggests that γ-tubulin was most abundant, followed by GCP2 and GCP3. GCP4 was present in smaller quantities, compared with GCP2 and GCP3, whereas GCP5 and GCP6 were present in much smaller quantities than other GCP proteins. This rough stoichiometry of the Arabidopsis γTuRC components is comparable with the estimated stoichiometry of human γTuRC (CITATION), and is consistent with the recent structural model of γTuRC (CITATION). GIP1a-GFP and GFP-GIP1a themselves were recovered in considerably smaller quantities compared with GCP2 and GCP3. Interestingly, we did not detect NEDD1 in the purified GIP1a-containing γTuRC, although NEDD1 was clearly detectable in the γTuRC components pulled down by GCP2-GFP or GCP3-GFP (CITATION). These results show that GIP1a is an integral component of Arabidopsis γTuRC. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether GIP1 interacts with particular subunits of the γ-tubulin complex, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays between GIP1 and known members of the complex. Interactions were assayed between γ-tubulin, GCP2, GCP3, GCP4, GCP5, GCP6 and NEDD1 as bait, and GIP1a and GIP1b as prey (Figure 4). Yeast diploid clones carrying different combinations of bait and prey were spotted in serial dilutions onto the control plates and the selection plates without histidine and adenine. Yeast growth on the selection medium was observed only in combinations of GCP3 and GIP1a (or GIP1b). When GIP1a and GIP1b were used as bait, yeast strains expressing GCP3 as prey grew on the selection plates (Figure S6). These results indicate that both GIP1a and GIP1b specifically interact with GCP3 among the γTuRC components. [[FIGURE]] To co-visualize GIP1 proteins and microtubules, the GFP-GIP1a construct was transformed into a marker line expressing mCherry-tagged β-tubulin, which labeled microtubules (CITATION). The localization of GFP-GIP1a to mitotic microtubule arrays was then observed in root tip cells (Figure 5a; Video Clip S1). At the pre-prophase, GFP-GIP1a accumulated on the nuclear membrane. Pre-prophase bands were only faintly labeled. At the anaphase, GFP-GIP1a was distributed strongly towards the spindle poles. At the telophase, the phragmoplast was preferentially labeled by GFP-GIP1a towards the distal borders. These distribution patterns are mostly consistent with the previously reported localizations of γ-tubulin, GCP2, GCP3 and GCP4 in Arabidopsis mitotic cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), consistent with GIP1a being associated with the Αrabidopsis γTuRC. Similar localization patterns in mitotic cells were also observed in Arabidopsis plants expressing GIP1b-GFP (Figure 5b). [[FIGURE]] A punctate and highly dynamic pattern of GFP-GIP1a localization was uncovered by spinning-disk confocal microscopy imaging of growing epidermal cells in the upper hypocotyl of seedlings grown in the dark (Figure 6). At 5-sec acquisition intervals, most labeled particles gave the appearance of appearing and disappearing at fixed locations (Figure 6a; Video Clip S2). The density of these immobilized particles (particles present in the same location for at least two consecutive acquisitions) were variable from cell to cell in the observed tissue, with a mean of 1.15 particles per 100 μm2 per min (SD = 0.75, 14 cells). Sequential images revealed that nascent microtubules were initiated from the sites where GFP-GIP1a particles appeared at the cell cortex (Figure 6c,d). [[FIGURE]] Observed particles of GFP-GIP1a (n = 1261) in 14 cells from 12 seedlings were sorted into five classes with respect to position and observation of microtubule nucleation (Figure 6e). GFP-GIP1a was most frequently associated with nucleating events on pre-existing microtubules, which formed branching daughter microtubules at angles of approximately 40° (class 3, 50.8%; see Figure 6c,d for a particular nucleation event) or parallel bundle-forming microtubules (class 4, 12.8%), whereas the particles were seldom found at cortical nucleation sites without pre-existing microtubules (class 5, 0.1%). We also observed substantial GFP-GIP1a signals recruited to pre-existing microtubules at the cell cortex without subsequent microtubule nucleation events (class 1, 36.3%). Interestingly, GFP-GIP1a particles did not appear at cortical regions where no cortical microtubules were found nearby (class 2). This is in marked contrast to previous observations of GCP2-GFP and GCP3-GFP labeled nucleation complexes, for which a substantial proportion of labeled complexes were observed to be recruited to microtubule-free sites (12.7%, CITATION). Microtubule nucleation frequency from the GFP-GIP1a complexes located on pre-existing cortical microtubules [63.7%; (class 3 + class 4)/(class 1 + class 3 + class 4)] was considerably higher than that from the GCP2/3-GFP complexes (24.5%). Together, these results indicate that GFP-GIP1 may label a subset of γTuRCs and that these complexes are more competent to nucleate. To test whether GIP1a localization at the cell cortex depends on pre-existing microtubules, we depolymerized microtubules by treating the seedlings with 20 μm oryzalin for 24 h (Figure 6b). GFP-GIP1a particles were not observed at the cell cortex in the absence of cortical microtubules during the observation period of 110 sec, indicating cortical microtubules are required to recruit GIP1a-containing particles to the cell cortex. Again, this result is in contrast to complexes labeled with GCP2/3-GFP, where substantial recruitment to stable positions at the cell cortex was observed after oryzalin treatment (CITATION), and provides further evidence that GIP1 may be associated with a subset of γTuRCs. The residency time of GFP-GIP1a at stable positions of the cell cortex was correlated with microtubule nucleation events. When nucleation was observed, GFP-GIP1a particles persisted for a mean duration of 57.6 ± 29.8 sec (n = 803), approximately eightfold longer than the mean residence time (7.6 ± 4.6 sec, n = 458) of the GFP-GIP1a particles that failed to nucleate new microtubules (Figure 7a). As new microtubules are mostly formed from the GCP2-labeled and GIP1a-labeled γTuRCs, within 10 sec the complexes are recruited onto the existing microtubules (Figure 7b; CITATION), and GFP-GIP1a particles become further stabilized at the minus end of the daughter microtubules associated with mother microtubules. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 was used and referred to as the wild type in this study. Seeds were surface-sterilized and incubated for 3–4 days in the dark at 4°C for stratification. Seedlings were grown on 1.5% agar medium containing a half-strength Murashige and Skoog salt mixture (pH 5.7) and 1% sucrose at 22°C under light conditions or in the dark. T-DNA tagged lines for gip1a (GABI_213D01) and gip1b (SALK_094257) were derived from the GABI-Kat collection (CITATION) and the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection (CITATION), respectively, and were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH, USA). To confirm the T-DNA insertion sites, genomic regions flanking the insertion sites were amplified by using the following PCR primer sets: 5′-GTCTCCCACTTCTCACTTCAC-3′ and 5′-GTCAAATTTGTTTCAGAGCCC-3′ for GIP1a, 5′-ATGAATCAGGAAGCAGCTGAAACAG-3′ and 5′-GGATTGAGTGGGGATGACTC-3′ for GIP1b, and 5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′, 5′-GTGGATTGATGTGATATCTCC-3′, and 5′-CCCGTCTCACTGGTGAAAAG-3′ for the T-DNA border sequences. Total RNA was extracted from 22-day-old seedlings by using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA), and was converted to cDNA by using the SuperScript II First Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). PCR was performed with the following primers: 5′-GTCTCCCACTTCTCACTTCAC-3′ (Fa) and 5′-GCATTCTGCTACTTTGGCTTTC-3′ (Ra) for GIP1a; 5′-TCTCAAACTCGACGCCGTTCG-3′ (Fb) and 5′-GGATTGAGTGGGGATGACTC-3′ (Rb) for GIP1b; and 5′-GCAGCATGAAGATTAAGGTCG-3′ and 5′-GAAAGAAATGTGATCCCGTC-3′ for ACT8. For the creation of the promoter-GUS constructs, a 1310-bp region 5′ upstream from the initiation ATG of GIP1a and an 862-bp region 5′ upstream from the initiation ATG of GIP1b were cloned into pGWB3 (CITATION) by using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). These constructs were transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0). Histochemical detection of the GUS activity has been described by CITATION. Specimens were observed with an Olympus SZX12 microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) or with a Nikon Eclipse E1000 microscope (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan), equipped a digital camera Olympus DP70. GFP-GIP1a and GIP1a-GFP constructs were generated from a genomic clone of GIP1a (At4g09550), including a 1310-bp region 5′ upstream from the initiation ATG and a 1323-bp region 3′ downstream from the stop codon. The GIP1b-GFP construct was generated from a genomic clone of GIP1b (At1g73790), including an 862-bp region 5′ upstream from the initiation ATG and an 1126-bp region 3′ downstream from the stop codon. smRS–GFP was inserted at the SmaI and NaeI sites that had been introduced before the start codon or the stop codon of GIP1 by PCR. The GFP-fused GIP1 inserts were excised by NotI, and were cloned into the binary vector pBIN19. The resulting vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90, which was then used to transform mCherry β-tubulin-6 plants (CITATION) by the floral-dip method (CITATION). To better visualize microtubules, transgenic plants were grown in the dark at 21°C on the vertically placed plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts (pH 5.7), 1% sucrose and 1% agar. For complementation tests, the GFP-GIP1a and GIP1a-GFP constructs were transformed into the gip1a gip1a GIP1b gip1b plants, and the GIP1b-GFP construct was transformed into the GIP1a gip1a gip1b gip1b plants. Genomic PCR was then carried out to identify transgenic T1 plants homozygous for the gip1b mutation and the gip1a mutation, respectively. Protein purification and sample preparation for LC-MS/MS analysis were performed according to methods described previously (CITATION). In brief, crude protein lysates were isolated from 12-day-old light-grown seedlings expressing GFP-GIP1a, GIP1a-GFP or GFP, and were subjected to immunoprecipitation using the anti-GFP antibody-coupled magnetic beads and μMACS columns (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany). Purified GFP-associated proteins were separated by 10% SDS-PAGE gel (TEFCO, Tokyo, Japan), and were stained with Flamingo fluorescent dye (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA). Open reading frames for TUG2 (encoding γ-tubulin), GCP2, GCP3, GCP4, GCP5a, GCP6, NEDD1, GIP1a and GIP1b cDNAs were cloned into pGADT7 and pGBKT7 (Clontech Laboratories, Mountain View, CA, USA) for translational fusions to the Gal4 activation domain (AD) and to the Gal4 binging domain (BD), respectively. Gal4 AD-fused constructs (prey vectors) were transformed into yeast strain Y187 (mating type α; Clontech), whereas Gal4 BD-fused constructs (bait vectors) were transformed into yeast strain Y2HGold (mating type a; Clontech). The Y2HGold transformants carrying bait vectors were mated with the Y187 transformants carrying prey vectors, followed by selection of the diploids carrying both vectors on the SD/-Leu-Trp plates. Test clones were spotted in three 10-fold serial dilutions onto the SD/-Leu-Trp, SD/-Leu-Trp-His and SD/-Leu-Trp-His-Ade plates, and were incubated for 5 days at 30°C. A commercial vector set of mouse p53 and SV40 large T-antigen was used as a positive control, and empty vectors were used to check auto-activation. Developing seeds and ovules in open siliques were observed by using an MVX10 microscope (Olympus). The fixation and clearing of embryo sacs and developing embryos were performed by the methods described previously (CITATION). Dissected immature seeds were examined by using an ECLIPSE E1000 microscope (Nikon), and images were taken with a DP70 digital camera (Olympus). Epidermal cells in the upper third of the hypocotyl were analyzed in 3- or 4-day-old etiolated seedlings that had been treated with or without 20 μm oryzalin for 24 h. Confocal images were acquired with a spinning-disk confocal head (CSU-X; Yokogawa Electric Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) mounted on a Leica DMI6000B microscope (Leica Micorosystems, Wetzlar, Germany), using a × 100 Plan Apo 1.4 NA oil immersion objective. GFP was excited at 491 nm, and mCherry at 561 nm, using a multichannel dichroic (Di01-T405/488/568/647, Semrock) and an ET525/50M or an ET595/50M bandpass emission filter (Chroma Technology, Bellows Falls, VT, USA) for GFP and mCherry, respectively. For time-lapsed experiments, 1-sec exposures were acquired every 5 sec during the course of 500 sec with an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics, Tucson, AZ, USA), operating at an intensification setting of 300 and using approximately 3.5 mW of excitation power, as measured at the end of the fiber optic delivering light to the scan head. Acquisition was controlled by slidebook, and images were processed and analysed with imagej 1.44p (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) and excel (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA, USA).
