!~ABS~! Eukaryotic mRNA decapping proteins are essential for normal turnover of mRNA. Yet, the mechanism of bulk mRNA turnover during stress responses and its importance to stress tolerance are poorly understood. Here, we showed that dehydration stress activated MPK6 to phosphorylate serine 237 of Arabidopsis DCP1 and phospho‐DCP1 preferentially associated with DCP5 to promote mRNA decapping in vivo. This process was essential for stress adaption as dcp5‐1 and DCP1‐S237A plants were hypersensitive to stress compared with wild‐type (WT) plants. Microarray analysis revealed that dehydration‐induced expression of many stress responsive genes was compromised in dcp5‐1, whereas a subset of transcripts was over‐represented in this mutant. Further analysis revealed that this subset of transcripts was likely the direct targets of stress‐triggered mRNA decapping in WT. Our results suggest that mRNA decapping through MPK6‐DCP1–DCP5 pathway serves as a rapid response to dehydration stress in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We previously reported that in Arabidopsis, decapping of seed storage protein (SSP) mRNAs required P‐body components including DCP1, DCP2 and DCP5 (CITATION). Translational repression of these mRNAs was also impaired in single mutant deficient in any one of these three components such that SSPs accumulated in the mutants, resulting in post‐embryonic lethality. Interestingly, DCP1 and DCP5 levels increased during seed maturation but decreased upon germination (CITATION). Because dehydration occurs during seed maturation, we reasoned that changes in DCP1 and DCP5 levels might be signalled by stress and environmental cues. To explore this possibility, we investigated DCP1 levels in Arabidopsis seedlings subjected to dehydration. FIG-REF shows that control seedlings accumulated two DCP1‐related bands around 50 kDa. Fifteen minutes after dehydration stress, there was a shift in abundance from the lower to the upper band, and at 60 min, the upper band represented about 90% of total DCP1. This shift in apparent molecular size was reversed by rehydration (FIG-REF). Phosphatase treatment (CITATION) suggested that the upper band was likely a phosphorylated form of DCP1 (FIG-REF). This was confirmed by mass spectrometry, which also identified serine 237 (S237) as the phosphorylation site (FIG-REF). Based on this result, we engineered constructs to express two DCP1 mutants using the DCP1 native promoter, with DCP1‐S237D mimicking the phosphorylated DCP1 and DCP1‐S237A mimicking the non‐phosphorylated form. The complementation lines were obtained and each DCP1 mutant was analysed by western blot. Different DCP1 mutant derivatives expressed in transgenic lines migrated differently, mimicking the modified and non‐modified form of DCP1 (FIG-REF). These results confirmed S237 as the phosphorylation site in vivo. To rule out the existence of other phosphorylation sites, we analysed transgenic lines expressing DCP1‐S237A subject to dehydration treatment. FIG-REF shows that S237 was likely the only site being modified since there was no change in the molecular size of DCP1‐S237A upon dehydration. [[FIGURE]] During seed development, phospho‐DCP1 gradually accumulates likely resulting from the stresses imposed when the developing embryos become gradually dehydrated (CITATION). Both phospho‐DCP1 and DCP5 accumulate to high levels in dried seed, and consistently, DCP5 preferentially associates with phospho‐DCP1 in vivo (CITATION). Using transgenic plants expressing a transgene encoding either FLAG–DCP1‐S237A or FLAG–DCP1‐S237D, we found that DCP5 preferentially associated with FLAG–DCP1‐S237D compared with FLAG–DCP1‐S237A (FIG-REF). Together, these results suggest that DCP1 phosphorylation promotes its association with DCP5 and the association is not limited to seed development. [[FIGURE]] The rapid phosphorylation upon dehydration stress raises the possibility that DCP5 and DCP1 may function in mRNA turnover during stress responses and regulation. Although dcp1‐1 mutants are arrested in early seedling development (CITATION), we were able to recover dcp1‐1 mutant lines complemented with DCP1‐S237A or DCP1‐S237D expressed from a DCP1 native promoter (FIG-REF). The T‐DNA insertion in the DCP1 locus of the dcp1‐1 mutant conferred resistance to sulfadiazin whereas the T‐DNAs we subsequently introduced into dcp1‐1 conferred resistance to glufosinate. We recovered >100 T1 plants resistant to both antibiotics. Since the transgene carried a FLAG tag it was possible to compare the expression levels of native DCP1 and FLAG‐tagged DCP1 using appropriate antibodies. Among 15 T1 plants of each complemented line, we identified four putative homozygous dcp1‐1 complemented with FLAG–DCP1‐S237A and four complemented with FLAG–DCP1‐S237D. Growth on double selection medium along with protein detection (a typical western blot was shown in FIG-REF) was used to select plants of the T2 and subsequent generations. Finally, we characterized three individual T4 lines homozygous with respect to both T‐DNAs. The DCP1‐S237D complementation line was indistinguishable from wild type (WT) with respect to plant morphology at various growth stages. By contrast, DCP1‐S237A seed germinated and grew poorly, similar to dcp5‐1, a knockdown mutant of DCP5 (FIG-REF). Both DCP1‐S237A and dcp5‐1 were also sensitive to osmotic stress (FIG-REF). The hypersensitivity was readily visible after 12 days of growth on treatment medium, such that these two lines were unable to produce lateral roots, in contrast to the typical response in WT (Supplementary Figure S1). These results suggest that the DCP5 association with phospho‐DCP1 is indeed important for stress responses. We previously reported that a typical unstable Expansin‐Like1 (EXPL1) transcripts accumulated in the capped form in decapping mutant dcp1‐1 with an estimated half‐life of 85 min (CITATION). In dcp5‐1, EXPL1 transcripts were also stabilized with an estimated half‐life of 60 min (CITATION). We measured EXPL1 transcript stability in DCP1‐S237A and DCP1‐S237D using the same method as before. The estimated half‐life of EXPL1 transcripts in DCP1‐S237A was 60 min compared with the estimated half‐life of 30 min in WT. This result suggests a partial complementation of dcp1‐1 as EXPL1 transcripts were more stabilized in DCP1‐S237A (FIG-REF). By contrast, the estimated half‐life of EXPL1 transcripts in DCP1‐S237D was 30 min, comparable to that in WT (FIG-REF). Notably, there was an apparent accumulation of EXPL1 transcripts in dcp5‐1 and DCP1‐S237A in comparison with WT and DCP1‐S237D even without cordycepin treatment. To relate the half‐life of a transcript to its 5′end structure, we developed a 5′termini characterization assay (see Materials and methods) employing a 5′ phosphate‐dependent exonuclease treatment and qRT–PCR. The estimated ratio of capped to uncapped EXPL1 transcripts in WT was 5.54 (Table I), whereas this ratio was increased to 16.22 in dcp5‐1, suggesting an inhibition of the decapping process in the latter. In DCP1‐S237A, the ratio was 9.48, which was about two‐fold higher compared with WT, whereas in DCP1‐S237D the ratio was 3.31 close to 5.54 in WT (Table I). These results suggest that EXPL1 transcript stability in different lines can be largely attributed to the difference in their mRNA decapping activities. Thus, DCP1 phosphorylation enhances mRNA decapping and contributes to, but not all of, mRNA decapping activities in vivo. [[TABLE]] We also tested the interaction between GST–DCP1 mutant proteins and MBP–DCP2 in vitro. In these assays, we used amylose resins to retrieve the individual MBP‐tagged proteins, which were used as baits. Antibody to GST was then used to detect the presence of GST–DCP1‐S237A or GST–DCP1‐S237D bound to the MBP‐tagged protein. FIG-REF shows a significant increase in interaction between GST–DCP1‐S237D and MBP–DCP2, as compared with GST–DCP1‐S237A and MBP–DCP2. Moreover, GST–DCP1‐S237D displayed a higher affinity for MBP–DCP1 compared with GST–DCP1‐S237A (FIG-REF), suggesting that DCP1 trimerization (CITATION) was also enhanced by S237 phosphorylation. The two GST–DCP1 mutant proteins showed equal binding to negative controls proteins D53 (a C‐terminal fragment of DCP5; CITATION) and VCSc (a C‐terminal region of VCS; CITATION). DCP5 homologues CAR‐1 and RAP55 have been identified as mRNA‐binding proteins (CITATION; CITATION). We tested RNA binding by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) using in vitro purified proteins and a synthetic RNA containing 18 uridines (polyU18). FIG-REF shows that GST–DCP1 and mutants could not bind to RNA effectively whereas MBP–DCP5 alone was capable of binding to RNA. Because the DCP1 proteins carried a GST tag, we investigated the effect of GST on RNA binding. FIG-REF shows that addition of GST reduced formation of RNPs mediated by DCP5 (cf. lane 7 and lane 12). Using GST plus MBP–DCP5 as a control (lane 12), we found that compared with GST–DCP1‐S237A (lane 10), addition of GST–DCP1‐S237D to the MBP–DCP5/RNA mix (lane 11) significantly increased complex formation between MBP–DCP5 and RNA, suggesting that DCP1 phosphorylation promoted RNA/protein complex formation. All together, these results suggest phosphorylation of DCP1 promotes mRNA decapping in vivo, presumably through mRNP formation by reinforcing its physical interaction with DCP5, DCP2 and DCP1 itself. The apparent accumulation of EXPL1 transcripts in dcp5‐1 and DCP1‐S237A even without cordycepin treatment suggested that DCP1 phosphorylation and subsequent association with DCP5 may contribute to changes in global transcript levels upon dehydration stress. To test this hypothesis, we designed a two‐colour expression microarray experiment using Arabidopsis V4 chips (Agilent). We isolated total RNAs from seedlings just before dehydration treatment and at 30 min after dehydration and RNA samples were labelled with different fluorescence dyes (cy3 or cy5). After data processing, we were able to calculate the response ratio (e.g., cy5/cy3) of each transcript, reflecting stress‐induced changes in transcript levels in WT or dcp5‐1. Six thousand and eighty‐four out of 43 663 probes showed significant differences in transcript response ratio between WT and dcp5‐1 (Student's t‐test, P<0.05). Among them, 710 probes displayed at least a two‐fold change in response ratio. Two hundred and eighty‐two probes showed a response ratio up‐regulated by over two‐fold in dcp5‐1 compared with WT. The number of probes for the down‐regulated response ratio was 428, suggesting that relatively more genes in dcp5‐1 could not respond to dehydration stress to the same extent as in WT (Supplementary Table S1). Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed that genes impaired in their dehydration response in dcp5‐1 were significantly enriched in those encoding transcription factors and related proteins (FIG-REF). By contrast, genes over‐responsive to stress in dcp5‐1 encoded proteins with nutrient reservoir activity or implicated in other metabolic pathways (FIG-REF) (Supplementary Table S2). These results indicate that during stress treatment, DCP5 is required for appropriate response of a subset of mRNAs. [[FIGURE]] To test the reproducibility of the microarray data, we selected CRC (CR; Cruciferin), CRA1, DREB1b (DREB; dehydration responsive element binding) and DREB2a as representative genes (FIG-REF) and measured their transcript levels by qRT–PCR. DREB1b and DREB2a, which are typical dehydration stress responsive genes, encode AP2 domain‐containing transcription factors (CITATION), whereas CRA1 and CRC encode 12S globulins, which are typical SSPs. FIG-REF shows the estimated response ratio based on qRT–PCR results (Supplementary Figure S2). Compared with in WT, induction of both DREB1b and DREB2a in dcp5‐1 was much reduced during dehydration stress, whereas CRC and CRA1 transcripts displayed over‐responsiveness (FIG-REF). These results reconfirmed the microarray data. We also isolated polysomal RNAs (FIG-REF) and subsequently performed qRT–PCR (Supplementary Figure S2) using the same materials collected for microarray analysis. Since DCP5 protein was not detected in the polysomal fractions, this protein could not be responsible for the difference in polysomal mRNAs between WT and dcp5‐1 (FIG-REF). Both CRC and CRA1 showed a much greater over‐responsiveness to dehydration in dcp5‐1 polysome‐associated mRNAs compared with that in total RNAs (FIG-REF, for details see Supplementary Figure S2). Similar changes were detected in total RNA of WT and dcp5‐1 but with a reduced induction ratio (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S2). In contrast to CRC and CRA1, the induction ratio of DREB1b and DREB2a transcript levels in polysomal RNAs was decreased in dcp5‐1 compared with WT (FIG-REF, for details see Supplementary Figure S2). Response patterns of all four transcripts tested by using total RNAs were reproduced with polysome‐associated RNAs, and for CRC/CRA1 the difference between WT and dcp5‐1 was even amplified. This result indicates that transcripts with altered response ratio obtained from microarray analysis were largely determined by whether they were engaged in polysomes for active translation where DCP5 apparently played an important role in this process. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the global transcript changes can be attributed to altered mRNA decapping during dehydration, we again used the transcript 5′ termini characterization assay to estimate the ratio of capped to uncapped transcripts. For CRC transcripts this ratio was decreased from 11.65 to 0.01 upon dehydration in WT whereas in dcp5‐1 (for unknown reason, the CRC transcript level in dcp5‐1 was very low), this decrease was much reduced (Table II, for details see Supplementary Table S4). Considering that dcp5‐1 is a knockdown mutant, this result suggested that in WT dehydration stress rapidly enhanced decapping of CRC transcripts via DCP5 in vivo. The similar decrease in WT but not dcp5‐1 was also seen with CRA1 transcripts (Table II). However, in both WT and dcp5‐1, the estimated ratios for DREB1b and DREB2a transcripts were increased (Table II). This result suggested that (1) DREB1b and DREB2a transcripts were not the direct targets of stress‐triggered mRNA decapping and (2) the decreased induction ratio of DREB1b and DREB2a transcript levels in total RNAs and polysomal RNAs in dcp5‐1 was not directly related to stress‐triggered mRNA decapping. [[TABLE]] Sequence analysis surrounding S237 revealed a consensus sequence, S/T‐P for phosphorylation by MPK (FIG-REF). Among the 20 MPKs in Arabidopsis MPK 3, 4 and 6 may act redundantly in abiotic stress responses (CITATION). FIG-REF shows that reduced levels of phospho‐DCP1 were detected only in seedlings of mpk6‐4 and mpk6‐5 but not those of mpk3‐2 and mpk4‐1. We performed in vitro kinase assays using specific immunoprecipitates as enzyme sources (CITATION) and purified DCP1 C‐terminal fragment (DCP1c) containing S237 as a substrate. Both MPK3 and 6 were capable of phosphorylating DCP1c but the activity was significantly compromised with DCP1‐S237Ac, which carried the S237A mutation (FIG-REF). More important, we found anti‐MPK6 immunoprecipitates from plants without stress treatment were unable to phosphorylate DCP1c but the MPK6 activity was rapidly induced 15 min after dehydration (FIG-REF). The same was seen with anti‐MPK3 immunoprecipitates (FIG-REF). The reduced level of phospho‐DCP1 in mpk6‐5 mutant resulted in an altered ratio between the two bands recognized by DCP1 antibody (FIG-REF). The ratio change was also seen with mpk6 mutants under dehydration stress (FIG-REF). Taken together, these results indicate that MPK6 plays a major role in S237 phosphorylation of DCP1 during dehydration stress, whereas MPK3 plays only a minor role or its activity can be supplanted by those of other MPKs. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Mutants dcp1‐1 and dcp5‐1 were previously characterized (CITATION; CITATION), mpk 6‐5, mpk 6‐4, mpk3‐2 were from Kazuo Shinozaki (CITATION), and mpk4‐1 from John Mundy (CITATION). Plants were grown on sterile solid half‐strength Murashige‐Skoog (MS) medium for 18 days before being transferred to a greenhouse under similar conditions (22°C, 16/8 h photoperiod cycles). For dehydration stress, 12‐day‐old seedlings were transferred onto 3 MM papers (Whatman) at 22°C exposed to 60% humidity at room temperature under dim light. After 30 min, the fresh weight of dehydrated seedlings was reduced to about 60%. Seedlings after 1 h of dehydration were returned to the original MS medium for rehydration. Osmotic stress treatment was carried out with the same MS medium but containing mannitol (5%). λ Phosphatase treatment was performed according to CITATION. The two bands corresponding to unphosphorylated and phosphorylated proteins were excised from gels, reduced with 10 mM DTT, alkylated with 55 mM iodoacetamide and then digested with Glu(C) followed by trypsin digestion at 37°C overnight. Digestion products were analysed by MALDI‐TOF to identify phosphopeptides with a PerSeptive MALDI‐TOF DE‐STR mass spectrometer. Two ions were observed at 1508.8 and 1579.8 Da corresponding to the mass (m/z) of phosphorylated peptides APPQIQSPPPLQR and AAPPQIQSPPPLQR, respectively. These peptides were only found in the upper band. The cleavage at the Ala residue may be due to an unknown proteolytic activity from the Glu (C) enzyme. To determine the phosphorylation site(s), the tryptic peptides were subjected to LC‐MS/MS analysis with a LTQ mass spectrometer. MBP–DCP1, MBP–DCP2, GST–DCP1, DCP1c‐His were purified from Escherichia coli extracts (CITATION). Quickchange site‐directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) was used for mutagenesis to generate GST–DCP1‐S237A, GST–DCP1‐S237D, and DCP1‐S237Ac‐His. Freshly purified proteins are dialysed and stored at −80°C in storage buffer (20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mM MgCl2, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM DTT and 10% glycerol). DCP5–FLAG was constructed as described (CITATION). A similar vector design was used for complementation using DNA sequences encoding FLAG–DCP1, FLAG–DCP1‐S237A and FLAG–DCP1‐S237D. A genomic fragment containing 6148 bp of the DCP1 locus was used, including 3044 bp upstream of the first ATG and 1059 bp downstream of the stop codon. The DNA fragment encoding the FLAG tag was inserted 3′ to the first ATG to produce FLAG–DCP1. Codon TCA, encoding S237 was changed to GCA (A237) and GAC (D237). The mutagenesis was performed using a Quickchange site‐directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). Primer sequences are presented in Supplementary Table S3. The expression constructs were used to transform dcp1‐1/DCP1‐1 heterozygous plants and transformants were selected by resistance to both 10 mg/l glufosinate ammonium (T‐DNA co‐expressing DCP1s) and 52.5 mg/l sulfadiazin (T‐DNA insertion in dcp1‐1). Three batches of RNA were prepared from total RNA. In all, 5 μg total RNA was treated with terminator 5′‐phosphate‐dependent exonuclease (Epicentre). The treated RNA was purified, precipitated and collected as RNA1 (representing capped transcripts). The second batch of 5 μg total RNA was treated sequentially with Apex alkaline phosphatase (Epicentre) and tobacco acid pyrophophatase (Epicentre), and followed by the terminator exonulease (Epicentre). RNA was purified and precipitated between each treatment step and finally collected as RNA 2 (representing uncapped transcripts). qRT–PCR was performed to measure transcript levels in each RNA pools. The relative transcript levels normalized to ACTIN2 levels were used to account for possible losses in ethanol precipitation steps. Tables I and II show estimated ratios of RNA1 (capped transcripts) to RNA2 (uncapped transcripts). MAPK immunoprecipitation and in vitro kinase assays were performed according to CITATION using 12‐day‐old seedlings subjected to dehydration. Briefly, 3 μl of each antibody and 30 μl Protein A‐Sepharose (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) were incubated with protein extracts from 300 mg stress‐treated seedlings for 2 h in 1 ml buffer (100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 0.5% polyvinylpyrrolidine, 1 mM phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride). PhosSTOP (Roche) and proteinase inhibitor (Roche) were added to the incubation mix to block dephosphorylation and protein degradation. Immunoprecipitates (10 μl each) were incubated with substrates (10 μg) for 10 min at 30°C in a total volume of 20 μl in kinase buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 10% glycerol, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MnCl2, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.2 mM ATP and 1 μCi [γ‐32P] ATP). Reactions were stopped by adding SDS loading buffer and heating for 15 min at 65°C. Immunoprecipitations and western blots were performed as described (CITATION). Polyclonal antibodies against DCP1, DCP2 and DCP5 were generated in rabbits using recombinant proteins purified from E. coli. For immunoprecipitation of FLAG‐tagged proteins, EZview red ANTI‐FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma) was used. Cordycepin treatments and northern blot analysis were performed according to CITATION. The microarray data from this publication have been submitted to the Gene expression omnibusdatabase (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo) and assigned the identifier GSE28493. Polysomal RNA was isolated by differential centrifugation as described (CITATION), except with the following changes: gradient (15–45% sucrose w/v) preparation and polysome fractionation were performed using a Biocomp gradient station and fractionation system following the manufacturer's instructions. UV absorbance data were obtained by Bio‐Rad EM‐1 Econo UV Monitor and were recorded digitally using a DI‐154RS (DATAQ Instrument). Polysome fraction was collected starting from the absorbance peaks representing small polysomes (FIG-REF). qRT–PCR was performed as described (CITATION) using the CFX96 Real‐Time PCR Detection System (Bio‐Rad). Data were processed using CFX Manager Software (version 1.5). The comparative CT method was used to quantify the relative amounts of target gene transcripts. All qRT–PCR reactions were performed with an annealing temperature of 60°C and a total of 40 cycles of amplification. Primer sequences are presented in Supplementary Table S3. 5′‐End labelling was performed with T4 polynucleotide kinase and [γ‐32P] ATP. Labelled poly U18 RNAs (20 000 c.p.m., 5 fmol) were incubated with proteins for 30 min at 4°C in 10 μl binding buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mM KAc, 1 mM DTT, 0.1 mg/ml BSA, 2 U/μl RNaseout, 100 nM yeast tRNA). After addition of 2 μl glycerol, the mixture was loaded on 6% DNA retardation gel (Invitrogen) and electrophoresis was performed for 1 h at 100 V at room temperature. Dried gels were subjected to phosphorimaging. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
