!~ABS~! Microtubules (MTs) are crucial for both the establishment of cellular polarity and the progression of all mitotic phases leading to karyokinesis and cytokinesis. MT organization and spindle formation rely on the activity of γ-tubulin and associated proteins throughout the cell cycle. To date, the molecular mechanisms modulating γ-tubulin complex location remain largely unknown. In this work, two Arabidopsis thaliana proteins interacting with GAMMA-TUBULIN COMPLEX PROTEIN3 (GCP3), GCP3-INTERACTING PROTEIN1 (GIP1) and GIP2, have been characterized. Both GIP genes are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues analyzed. Immunolocalization studies combined with the expression of GIP–green fluorescent protein fusions have shown that GIPs colocalize with γ-tubulin, GCP3, and/or GCP4 and reorganize from the nucleus to the prospindle and the preprophase band in late G2. After nuclear envelope breakdown, they localize on spindle and phragmoplast MTs and on the reforming nuclear envelope of daughter cells. The gip1 gip2 double mutants exhibit severe growth defects and sterility. At the cellular level, they are characterized by MT misorganization and abnormal spindle polarity, resulting in ploidy defects. Altogether, our data show that during mitosis GIPs play a role in γ-tubulin complex localization, spindle stability and chromosomal segregation.
!~RES~! Searches in the Arabidopsis sequence databases revealed a GIP1 (At4g09550) homologous gene, which was named GIP2 (At1g73790). GIP2 encodes a 67–amino acid protein with a predicted molecular mass of 7.4 kD. The GIP1 and GIP2 proteins share 72% amino acid sequence identity (Figure 1, Table 1). GIP homologs are present and well conserved among various species. Interestingly, two members of the GIP family exist in the plant kingdom, while only one is present in the animal kingdom. GIPs are small proteins (67 to 99 amino acids in length) with a well-conserved central region. The percentages of identity among the GIP homologs presented range from 18% for Caenorhabditis elegans to 58% for rice (Oryza sativa) GIPs. The human homolog of GIP1 (MZT1) shares 35% of identity with the Arabidopsis protein. All these sequence analyses suggest that GIP proteins share important properties and functions that have been conserved throughout evolution. Quantitative RT-PCR analyses (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) show that GIP1 and GIP2 are ubiquitously expressed in Arabidopsis. However, GIP expression is higher in young tissues and meristematic cells, arguing in favor of a role in cycling cells. [[FIGURE]] Percentage of Amino Acid Identity between Arabidopsis GIP1 and Some Eukaryotic Homologs Arabidopsis GIP1 interacts with GCP3, both in a yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro. To confirm whether GIP2 behaves similarly, glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays were performed. Radiolabeled GIP2, such as GIP1 used here as a positive control, was detected in the GST-GCP3 fraction but not in the GST fraction (Figure 2A), indicating that GIP2 has the propensity to interact with GCP3. In parallel, the interaction of GIP2 with either GST-γ-tubulin, GST-GCP2, GST-GIP1, or GST-GIP2 was also tested. None of these fusion proteins interacted with GIP2. [[FIGURE]] To identify the GCP3 domain(s) that could mediate the binding to GIPs, the interaction of the full-length sequence and of five GCP3 truncated regions corresponding to AA1-199 (r1), AA 200-409 (r2), AA 411-627 (r3), AA 629-751 (r4), and AA754-838 (r5) was investigated (Figure 2B). The 199–amino acid N-terminal region of GCP3 retained the interaction with both GIP1 and GIP2. To determine whether GIPs were present in γ-tubulin complexes, Arabidopsis [gip1gip1 GIP2gip2] sesquimutants transformed by a P35S:GIP1:Etag:GFP (for green fluorescent protein) DNA construct were used for coimmunoprecipitation experiments. This construct was able to rescue the gip1 gip2 double mutant, validating its functionality (see details below). The GIP1-Etag-GFP fusion protein (GIP1-GFP) was immunodetected in total protein extracts by an anti-GFP antibody (Figures 3A and 3C). GFP and GIP1-GFP immunopurified fractions were prepared and separately subjected to immunoblotting using anti-GCP3 and anti-γ-tubulin antibodies. Both endogenous GCP3 and γ-tubulin could be detected in enriched GIP1-GFP fractions (Figures 3B and 3D), indicating that GIP1, GCP3, and γ-tubulin are part of the same protein complex in vivo. [[FIGURE]] The expression and localization of GIP1-GFP or GIP2-GFP was followed in the root apical meristem of 1-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings transformed with either the P35S:GIP1:Etag:GFP or the P35S:GIP2:Etag:GFP DNA construct. The expression of the Etag-GFP fusion proteins was checked using confocal microscopy and through immunoblotting analyses using anti-Etag antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). It appeared that the expression of GIP1-GFP or GIP2-GFP did not affect the plant phenotype throughout development. MT immunolabeling (Figures 4A2, 4B2, 4C2, 4E2, and 4F2) and 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining (Figures 4A2, 4B2, 4C2, and 4E2) were performed after fixation. A diffuse GFP background could be observed in the cytoplasm of all cells. In such conditions, no significant GFP signal emerged from the fluorescent background in the cortex, which makes these cells inappropriate to the study of cortical MT nucleating sites. However, a significant signal was present within interphase nuclei (n = 150). Twenty percent of cells showed a bright nucleoplasm, 20% had a spotty pattern at the nuclear periphery, and 60% had a nucleoplasmic fluorescence not exceeding that of the cytoplasmic background (see Supplemental Movie 1 online). During mitosis, GIP labeling colocalized with preprophase band (PPB) MTs (Figures 4A1, 4B1, and 4C1, stars), prospindles (Figures 4D and 4E, arrowheads), and mainly kinetochore MTs in anaphase (Figure 4F, arrowheads). When observed in vivo after nuclear envelope breakdown (NEB), GIP2-GFP and GIP1-GFP dynamics could be followed (Figures 4G and 4H, respectively). GIPs localized within spindles during prometaphase to anaphase, and they relocated on interpolar and phragmoplast MTs from mid-anaphase to telophase. During telophase, GIP-GFP also decorated the newly formed NE of daughter cells (see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To study the localization of endogenous GIPs, a polyclonal rabbit antiserum was raised and tested positively against recombinant GIP1 migrating between the 10- and 17-kD positions of protein markers (see Supplemental Figure 2B online), validating the specificity of the anti-GIP antibody. GIP1 was detected when ectopically expressed as a GFP fusion protein (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). Unexpectedly, however, immunoblot analyses using standard conditions could not reveal any endogenous GIPs in protein extracts from either wild-type or P35S:GIP1:Etag:GFP Arabidopsis lines. In addition, no significant signal corresponding to GIP immunolabeling could be observed in wild-type seedling roots. GIPs could only be detected in the analysis of proteins obtained with an improved extraction method (see Supplemental Figure 3C online), which shows that GIPs are present at very low amounts in Arabidopsis tissues. Considering the conservation of GIP in plants, immunomicroscopy experiments were further performed on growing tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells (Figures 4I to 4O). In the mitotic cells, GIPs showed the same localization pattern as for GIP-GFP in Arabidopsis. In addition, several cortical dots were observed in interphase cells, some of them coinciding with MT arrays (Figure 4I). GIP localization studies indicate the presence of GIPs in MT nucleation and organization sites, especially at the onset and during mitosis. To determine whether GIPs colocalize with γ-tubulin complexes, the distribution of GIPs was compared with that of other GCPs in wild-type plants and plants expressing GIP1-GFP (Figure 5). Anti-GCP3 or anti-γ-tubulin antibodies were used as markers of the plant γ-TuSC. Anti-GCP4 antibodies were used as markers for the γ-TuRC. The labeling was also compared with the microtubular pattern revealed by anti-α-tubulin antibodies. During mitosis, the three GCP proteins were mainly shown to be associated with kinetochore fibers in all dividing cells. This was particularly visible during anaphase with the triangular labeling of polar MT fibers (Figure 5, arrows). When the antibodies were used on GIP-GFP–expressing cells, the GCP labeling coincided with the GIP recombinant protein signal. This was confirmed by superimposed fluorescence intensity profiles (green and red), compared with the chromatid staining (blue). Notably, the GCP3 staining was less visible within the spindle in GIP1-GFP–expressing cells than in wild-type controls, arguing in favor of a steric cluttering limiting the immunoreaction with the presence of GFP. Such a difference was not observed using anti-γ-tubulin or anti-GCP4 antibodies. Altogether, our data show that GIPs colocalize with either GCP3, γ-tubulin, or GCP4 in spindle MTs. These findings are consistent with the association of GIPs with γ-TuSCs and/or γ-TuRCs in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To gain insights into the function of plant GIPs, Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants were studied. The mutated gip1 allele carries a T-DNA insertion in the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) intron located upstream of the open reading frame, and the gip2 allele carries a T-DNA insertion in the 5′ UTR, associated with a downstream deletion of 67 bp (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). These positions were both checked using PCR amplification and sequencing of the T-DNA flanking regions. Homozygous gip1 and gip2 lines were crossed to produce the double mutants. GIP1 and GIP2 mRNA levels were determined in the wild type, [GIP1gip1 gip2gip2] or [gip1gip1 GIP2gip2] sesquimutants, and double mutants. No significant wild-type GIP1 mRNA was detected in gip1 mutants using specific primers located upstream and downstream from the T-DNA insertion. RT PCR using downstream primers indicates that the T-DNA insertion prevents a correct splicing of GIP1 transcripts, suggesting a significant knockdown of GIP1 expression (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). For gip2, due to the T-DNA insertion in the 5′ end of the 5′ UTR, expression levels could only be checked using downstream PCR primers. In gip2 mutants, a chimeric transcript, corresponding to the 3′ end of the T-DNA insertion in fusion with the first exon (5′ UTR) of GIP2, was detected. The accumulation of this aberrant transcript (above the level of wild-type mRNAs) is probably due to the presence of the 35S promoter in the T-DNA. However, the production of functional GIP2 is unlikely according to the classic translation rules of eukaryotic mRNAs. Such a case has already been described for γ-tubulin T-DNA insertion mutants (CITATION). The presence of GIPs in wild-type and mutant lines was checked by immunoblotting of concentrated protein extracts. GIPs were faintly detected in the extracts from wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 3C online), and similar low amounts of GIP1 or GIP2 were present in sesquimutants. However, GIPs were undetectable in extracts from double mutants according to our experimental conditions, suggesting that T-DNA insertions impair GIP synthesis from both mutant alleles. The gip double mutants may therefore be considered as strong knockdown mutants. To check whether GIP1 and GIP2 played a role at specific tissue or developmental stages, seedlings, growing and mature plants corresponding to gip1 and gip2 homozygous single mutants, and wild-type lines were compared. Single mutants and sesquimutants had a wild-type-like developmental phenotype and were fertile, suggesting functional redundancy for GIP genes in standard growing conditions. The combination of gip1 and gip2 homozygous alleles induced severe developmental defects (Figure 6). Eighteen to 23% of seeds were unable to germinate (see Supplemental Table 1 online; n = 446). For comparison, only 2% of ungerminated seeds were observed after control wild-type autofertilization (n = 450). Ten days after germination, a strong phenotype was revealed for 2.5 to 5.8% of seedlings, suggesting that GIP loss induces gametophyte and/or embryo lethality. Indeed, the analysis of the sesquimutant siliques showed either ovules, in which the development of the zygote was blocked at a globular stage, certainly resulting in aborted seeds, or embryos of a much smaller size than that of heterozygotes (Figures 6A to 6F). All the phenotypically affected plantlets exhibited a [gip1gip1 gip2gip2] genotype (Figures 6G to 6K). Their development was strongly delayed and only one-third of the seedlings developed until flowering, indicating that GIPs are required for plant development. Double mutant seedlings had short primary roots that grew like corkscrews (Figures 6G and 6I), very short hypocotyl, and abnormal cotyledons appearing as green callus-like structures (Figures 6G and 6I). Rosette development showed narrow, curved leaves before the formation of short bolts (Figures 6J and 6K). To confirm that the observed phenotypes were linked to gip mutations, DNA sequences corresponding to 2.8-kb GIP1 and 2.4-kb GIP2 genomic fragments were reintroduced into sesquimutants. Both wild-type genomic constructs rescued the developmental phenotype in the double mutant background obtained after sesquimutant autofertilization (Figures 6M and 6N). Moreover, the P35S:GIP1:Etag:GFP construct also restored a wild-type-like phenotype of the gip1 gip2 double mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). A specific GFP signal was observed using confocal microscopy in sporophytic tissues (notably in dividing root cells), in gametophytes, and in dissected developing embryos (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), indicating that in the complemented Arabidopsis mutant lines obtained, GIP1-GFP was expressed throughout the different developmental stages. [[FIGURE]] Defects in meristem organization and maintenance were observed in the shoot and the root apical meristems of double mutants. The cellular organization of the root apical meristem was carefully investigated. The pattern of the different cell types was disturbed, and cells were often bulging, irregular, and bigger in size compared with the wild type or sesquimutants (Figures 7A to 7E). Collapsing meristematic, elongating, and differentiating root zones were observed in differential interference contrast (DIC) and after propidium iodide cell wall labeling (Figures 7A and 7C). In double mutants, starch granules stained with Lugol were reduced and laterally mislocated in a few remnant columella cells (Figure 7B). The stem cell niche was disorganized, and it was often difficult to identify the quiescent center. Root tip cells of double mutants showed nuclei that were three times as large as those of sesquimutants (Figures 7D and 7I) in which one wild-type GIP allele was present, suggesting either an increase in DNA content or enhanced chromatin decondensation. These nuclei were distorted in shape, losing their circularity but maintaining a DAPI fluorescence intensity similar to that of control nuclei. Altogether, these data suggest that GIPs may be linked to the regulation of cellular polarity and patterning as well as to the determination of nuclear morphology. [[FIGURE]] To better understand the causes of tissue patterning defects, mitosis was further investigated in double mutants by combining two approaches. First, MTs and chromatin of fixed cells were stained. Then, to correlate these results with GIP functions during cell division, MTs were visualized through the MT binding domain (MBD) of MAP4 fused to GFP, and chromatin was highlighted through the expression of a fluorescent Histone H2A variant (H2AX). Thus, a P35S:MBD:GFP or a P35S:H2AX:RFP (for red fluorescent protein) construct was introgressed in the mutated gip1 gip2 background. This helped to follow MT array dynamics or chromatin segregation in meristematic root cells. In gip1 gip2 seedlings, the mitotic index was half of that observed in the wild type, indicating that cell division progression was affected in gip double mutants (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This was in accordance with the simultaneously observed smaller root length. Cytoskeletal and chromosomal abnormalities were found in 86% of the cells analyzed in gip1 gip2 root meristems (Figure 8; n = 50). At the microtubular level, 30% of division figures corresponded to cells in late G2 (attested by the presence of a PPB), 38% were in prometaphase and metaphase, 7.5% in anaphase, and 22% in telophase. In wild-type roots, 28% of cells were in G2, 20% in prometaphase and metaphase, 20% in anaphase, and 26% in telophase (n = 50). These results indicated an anaphase delay during mitosis in gip1 gip2 mutants. At mitotic onset, the PPB formed. However, the positioning of PPBs was altered (n = 15) and either oblique (33%), asymmetric (64%), or double (3%) PPBs were observed. After NEB, defects in spindle polarity (Figure 8A), spindle MT organization (Figure 8B), and/or spindle size (Figures 8C and 8H) occurred. For the 20% of cells that formed a PPB, spindles were either misoriented (Figure 8I; see Supplemental Movie 3 online) or did not form (Figure 8J). Large polygonal cells which were able to form oblique spindles and divide (Figure 8H) could lead to daughter cells losing the straight cellular organization in root files like that shown in Figure 7. Unstable metaphase plates were observed, but as spindle orientation defects could be spontaneously rescued (Figure 8I), the amount of mitotic defects could possibly be underestimated. In case of PPB narrowing and further decondensation without spindle formation (Figure 8J), the cellular DNA content doubled leading to polyploid cells. [[FIGURE]] At the level of chromosomes, metaphase plates and anaphase segregation showed a large increase in the number of chromosomes (Figure 8C) with the presence of lagging chromosomes in anaphase (Figures 8D to 8F) and the appearance of micronuclei in interphase when compared with control wild-type cells (Figure 8G). After NEB, chromosome congression was observed but condensed chromosomes remained blocked in metaphase in 20% of cells (Figure 8K). For the remaining 80% of mitotic cells, anaphase was strongly delayed (Figure 8L; see Supplemental Movie 4 online) and chromatid segregation could lead to aneuploidy linked to chromosome lagging. All these observations suggested an increase in the ploidy level relative to wild-type cells. To determine ploidy at the DNA level, nuclear DNA contents were compared using flow cytometry. In all tissues analyzed, the nuclei of the wild-type or sesquimutant plants showed a majority of 2C and 4C nuclei corresponding to diploid cells. A complete loss of diploid cells and a shift up to 32C DNA content was detected in double mutants, confirming the presence of polyploid cells (Figures 8M and 8N). This indicates that three replication cycles without division and/or defects in DNA segregation can occur in double mutants. Altogether, our data suggest a defect in the mechanisms of spindle orientation, which could argue in favor of a role of GIPs in kinetochore fiber formation or stability and in spindle polarity and/or integrity. In addition, anaphase delay and PPB decondensation reveal the activation of the mitotic checkpoint, but lagging chromosomes or misequilibrated anaphases suggest that plant cells can partially overcome chromosome abnormalities. The high number of polyploid and aneuploid cells in the very young root tip also suggests that, early in embryogenesis, the root stem cells were likely impeded in their normal division. During seed germination, a new genetic program may then overcome the higher DNA amount and restart cell division. GIP localization was highly similar to either γ-tubulin, GCP3, or GCP4 distribution, suggesting a molecular interaction among GIPs and γ-TuSCs/γ-TuRCs. To test this hypothesis, the amount of γ-tubulin, GCP3, and GCP4 present at NE, spindles, and phragmoplasts was compared between wild-type and gip double mutant cells. A significant decrease in γ-tubulin, GCP3, or GCP4 labeling was observed in mutant cells (Figure 9A; P < 0.05, n = 40; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). A simultaneous reduction in the α-tubulin fluorescence intensity at the nuclear periphery and within spindles and phragmoplasts was observed in mutants compared with wild-type cells (Figure 9B; n = 120), indicating that GIP depletion affects the density of perinuclear and mitotic MT arrays. These results show that GIPs play a role in the proper localization of γ-TuSC or γ-TuRC components and in MT array organization. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana gip1 T-DNA insertion line (GABI_213D01) was obtained from the Gabi-Kat collection (CITATION) via the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. The gip2 line (FLAG_36406) was obtained from FLAGdb/FST at the Institut de la Recherche Agronomique (Versailles, France; CITATION). Homozygous insertion lines identified through PCR genotyping (see Supplemental Table 2 online) were crossed to produce double mutant lines. The GFP-MBD marker (CITATION) or the H2AX-RFP marker in Arabidopsis was introduced into both GIP sesquimutant backgrounds through crossing. Arabidopsis transformation was performed using the floral dipping method (CITATION) and the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis lines were grown in vitro on Murashige and Skoog medium (Serva) at 20°C in 12 h per day of 70 μmol m−2 s−1 fluorescent lighting, subcultured on soil, and transferred to a growth chamber with light/dark cycles of 16 h/8 h for 2 weeks and then to the greenhouse. Tobacco BY-2 cells (Nicotiana tabacum cv Bright Yellow 2) were grown according to CITATION. Arabidopsis GIP1, GIP2, GCP1, GCP2, and GCP3 cDNA fragments were generated by PCR using primers derived from the gene sequences (see Supplemental Table 2 online). To express GST fusion proteins in Escherichia coli, the full coding sequences of GIP1, GIP2, GCP1, GCP2, and GCP3 were cloned in pGEX-2TK (GE Healthcare). To generate antibodies, the Arabidopsis GIP1 coding sequence was introduced into pQE60 (Qiagen). For in vitro–coupled transcription/translation and yeast two-hybrid assays, GIP1 and GIP2 coding sequences were cloned in pGBKT7 (Clontech). The GIP2 and GCP3 coding sequences were inserted into pAS2ΔΔ and pACTIIst (Institut Pasteur, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique). The DNA fragments corresponding to GCP3 regions 1 to 5 (CITATION) were subcloned in pGBKT7. pGAD10-GIP1 (CITATION) was also used. GIP1 and GIP2 coding sequences were cloned under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter into the NcoI site of the plant expression vector pNEG-X1 (CITATION) to produce C-terminal E-tag peptide (GE Healthcare) and GFP fusion proteins. For stable transformation of Arabidopsis, the plant expression cassette was excised from recombinant pNEG-X1 vectors with HindIII and EcoRI and subcloned into the binary vector pGreenII 0029 or pGreenII 0179 (CITATION). The genomic fragments used for complementation experiments were based on the annotated At4g09550 (GIP1) and the At1g73790 (GIP2) loci. The GIP1 2.8-kb or GIP2 2.4-kb DNA fragments encompassed the entire coding sequences, a 2- or 1.8-kb promoter sequence upstream of the start codon, and a 0.6- or 0.4-kb sequence downstream of the stop codon, respectively. GIP1 or GIP2 PCR products were cloned into the EcoRI site of pGreenII 0179. GST pull-down assays were performed as described (CITATION). [35S]Met-labeled GIP1 or GIP2 was produced by incubating pGBKT7-GIP1 or pGBKT7-GIP2 in the TNT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega). GST and GST fusions proteins were expressed in E. coli BL21 Rosetta-pRARE (Novagen). The two-hybrid analysis of interacting proteins was performed using yeast strain Y187 and a cotransformation procedure according to the Clontech yeast protocols handbook PT-3024-1. Positive protein interactions were detected in a β-galactosidase colony-lift filter assay. Fifteen-day-old transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings (500 mg fresh weight) expressing GFP (a gift from C. Himber, Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes) or GIP1-GFP were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to powder. The extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Nonidet P-40, and 5% glycerol), supplemented with Complete Protease Inhibitor cocktail (Roche Diagnostics), was added to the powder. The supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 15,000g. Protein complexes, containing GCP3 and/or γ-tubulin associated with GIP1-GFP, were enriched with polyclonal anti-GFP antibodies (Invitrogen) bound to the Dynabeads Protein A (Invitrogen) or with the μMACS GFP isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec), respectively, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Protein fractions were separated with SDS-PAGE and transferred to Immobilon membranes (Millipore) for immunoblotting. GFP and GIP1-GFP recombinant proteins were detected using the polyclonal anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen; 1:5000 dilution). Native proteins were detected by the monoclonal anti-γ-tubulin (Exbio Praha, Academy of Sciences) and the polyclonal anti-GCP3 (CITATION) antibodies (1:5000). To generate polyclonal antibodies directed against Arabidopsis GIP1, six-His-tagged GIP1 was produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells transformed with pQE60-GIP1, purified on a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose column according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Qiagen), and injected into rabbits at the Polyclonal Antibodies Service (Institut de Génétique et Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Illkirch, France). Arabidopsis seedlings and BY-2 cells were fixed for 40 min in 1.5% paraformaldehyde and 0.5% glutaraldehyde in PEMT buffer (50 mM PIPES, 2 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgSO4, and 0.05% Triton X-100, pH 7.2) and then treated as described by CITATION. Nonspecific binding was blocked by incubation in PBS (3.2 mM Na2HPO4, 0.5 mM KH2PO4, 1.3 mM KCl, and 135 mM NaCl, pH 7.4) containing 2% BSA and 0.1% Triton X-100 (IF buffer) for 10 min. Primary and secondary antibodies were diluted in IF buffer and incubated for 1 h at room temperature. The primary antibodies used in this study were the rabbit polyclonal anti-GIP1 (1/1000), monoclonal anti-α-tubulin (clone DM1A; Sigma-Aldrich) (1/6000), polyclonal anti-γ-tubulin (1/4000) (CITATION), anti-GCP3 (1/1000) (CITATION), and anti-GCP4 (1/300) generously given by B. Liu (University of California, Davis, CA). Alexa 488– and Alexa 568–conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG and goat anti-mouse IgG secondary antibodies (1:300) were from Molecular Probes. DNA was stained using 0.1 μg/mL DAPI. The MAP4 MBD fused to GFP (GFP-MBD) was used as reporter protein to visualize dynamic changes in the organization of the MT cytoskeleton in living seedlings mounted in water. Seedlings and immunostained cells were observed with a Zeiss LSM 700 confocal microscope in multitracking mode using 405-, 488-, or 555-nm laser excitation. To observe ovules and embryos, Arabidopsis flowers and developing seeds were cleared in 8/2/1 (w/v/v) chloral hydrate/water/glycerol. Bright-field, phase contrast, or DIC images were acquired using a Zeiss AxioImager Z1 microscope and an Axiocam MRm digital camera. For the analysis of root apical meristem morphology, Arabidopsis seedlings were treated with 10 μg/mL propidium iodide and observed using confocal microscopy and DIC. Available GenBank EST libraries were screened with Arabidopsis and human GIPs using the TBLASTN algorithm. Putative positive hits were processed in MacVector to extract full-coding frames and translation products. New identified GIP homolog sequences were then reused for iterative searches as long as new hits were obtained. Final alignments were performed using ClustalW in MacVector software. The nuclear DNA content was estimated through flow cytometry as previously described (CITATION). In brief, various Arabidopsis tissues were chopped with a razor blade in Galbraith buffer (45 mM MgCl2, 30 mM sodium citrate, 20 mM MOPS, and 1% Triton X-100), filtered through a 48-μm mesh, and stained using propidium iodide (50 μg/mL). Ploidy levels of 5000 to 10,000 stained nuclei were determined using a CyFlow SL cytometer (Partec SARL) with a 532-nm solid-state laser (100 mW) excitation filter. The emission was collected through a 990-nm long-pass filter. Total RNA was extracted from plant organs with the Nucleospin RNA plant kit (Macherey-Nagel) according to the manufacturer’s instructions after grinding with glass beads (1.7/2 mm) in a Precellys 24 grinder (Bertin Technologies) at 5500 rpm, 2 × 30 s. After treatment with DNase I (Fermentas), RNAs were stored at −80°C. One microgram of total RNA was then reverse transcribed with the Superscibed III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) using oligo(dT) as primers. PCR amplification was performed with 1 μL of cDNA in a final volume of 25 μL with the qPCR MasterMIX Plus for SYBER Green I with fluorescein (Eurogentec France) and gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 2 online). As a reference for PCR quantification, the actin gene was amplified with specific primers. Three quantifications were performed for each sample as described previously (CITATION). Total protein extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis leaf disks, ground in SDS-PAGE loading buffer (CITATION), and separated using SDS-PAGE. Concentrated protein extracts from 3-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were prepared according to the protocol described by CITATION. The proteins were finally dissolved in SDS-PAGE loading buffer and separated with Tricine-SDS-PAGE (CITATION). The protein concentration of the extracts was determined on Coomassie Brilliant Blue–stained SDS-PAGE gels and the Bradford protein assay (Bio-Rad) following the manufacturer’s protocol. After SDS-PAGE, the proteins were transferred to Immobilon-PSQ membranes (Millipore) and processed for immunoblotting analysis as described by CITATION. The membranes were treated with the anti-GIP1 rabbit polyclonal antibody (1:5000 dilution) or the anti E-tag peptide (GE Healthcare) monoclonal antibody (1:5000) overnight at 4°C and horseradish peroxidase–conjugated IgG (Molecular Probes; 1:5000) 1 h at room temperature. Signals were revealed using Immobilon Western detection reagents (Millipore). Sequence data from this study can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis (At) GIP1, At4g09550; At GIP2, At1g73790; At GCP1, At3g61650; At GCP2, At5g17410; At GCP3, At5g06680; Oryza sativa (Os) GIP1, CF989340; Os GIP2, NP_001050438; Physcomitrella patens (Pp) GIP1, DC931782; Pp GIP2, FC379761; Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Sp) GIP, P0CF96; Caenorhabditis elegans (Ce) GIP, NP_001021663; Drosophila melanogaster (Dm) GIP, HDC08084; Xenopus laevis (Xl) GIP, BG162997; Homo sapiens (Hs) GIP, NP_001065243; gip1 T-DNA insertion line, GABI_213D01; and gip2 T-DNA insertion line, FLAG_36406. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Analysis of GIP1 and GIP2 Expression with Quantitative RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 2. Immunoblot Analysis of Recombinant GIP Proteins. Supplemental Figure 3. Molecular Characterization of GIP1 and GIP2 T-DNA Insertion Alleles. Supplemental Figure 4. Immunolabeling of γ-Tubulin and GCP3 in Wild-Type and GIP Double Mutant Meristematic Cells. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression of P35S:GIP1:GFP in an Arabidopsis Mutated [gip1gip1 GIP2gip2] Background. Supplemental Figure 6. Mitotic Index in the Root Apical Meristems of the GIP Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 7. Immunolocalization of GCPs in gip Mutants. Supplemental Table 1. Segregation of GIP Mutants after Sesquimutant Self-Pollination and Growth under Nonselective Medium. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for Genotyping and RT-PCR Experiments. Supplemental Movie 1. Arabidopsis Root Expressing GIP1-GFP. Supplemental Movie 2. Mitotic Arabidopsis Root Cells Expressing GIP2-GFP. Supplemental Movie 3. Expression of MBD-GFP in a gip1 gip2 Genetic Background Showing Spindle Instability. Supplemental Movie 4. Expression of H2AX-GFP in a gip1 gip2 Genetic Background Showing Anaphase Delay.
