!~ABS~! It is currently held that thiamin is made in chloroplasts and converted in the cytosol to the active cofactor thiamin diphosphate (ThDP), and that mitochondria and plastids import ThDP. The organellar transporters that mediate ThDP import in plants have not been identified. Comparative genomic analysis indicated that two members of the mitochondrial carrier family (MCF) in Arabidopsis (At5g48970 and At3g21390) and two in maize (GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911) are related to the ThDP carriers of animals and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Expression of each of these plant proteins in a S. cerevisiae ThDP carrier (TPC1) null mutant complemented the growth defect on fermentable carbon sources and restored the level of mitochondrial ThDP and the activity of the mitochondrial ThDP-dependent enzyme acetolactate synthase. The plant proteins were targeted to mitochondria as judged by dual import assays with purified pea mitochondria and chloroplasts, and by microscopic analysis of the subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein fusions in transiently transformed tobacco suspension cells. Both maize genes were shown to be expressed throughout the plant, which is consistent with the known ubiquity of mitochondrial ThDP-dependent enzymes. Collectively, these data establish that plants have mitochondrially located MCF carriers for ThDP, and indicate that these carriers are highly evolutionarily conserved. Our data provide a firm basis to propagate the functional annotation of mitochondrial ThDP carriers to other angiosperm genomes.
!~RES~! A previous general phylogenetic analysis of human, yeast, and Arabidopsis MCF proteins identified At3g21390 and At5g48970 as candidate ThDP carriers; both fell in the same clade as the human ThDP carrier Slc25a19 and close to yeast Tpc1p (Palmieri et al. CITATION). At3g21390 and At5g48970 share 74% amino acid identity. Blast searches of the maize genome using either Arabidopsis sequence as query detected only two close matches, GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911. These maize candidates share 67–74% amino acid identity with the Arabidopsis proteins and 96% with each other. Targeted phylogenetic analyses of the four plant candidates, the human, yeast, and Drosophila ThDP carriers, and all Arabidopsis, yeast, or human MCF proteins consistently grouped all four candidates and the known carriers in the same clade. Thus, among all 58 Arabidopsis MCF proteins, those closest to the known ThDP carriers are the candidates (Fig. 1) and, among all yeast or human MCF proteins, the candidates are closest to the known ThDP carriers (Fig. S1). The phylogenetic trees all locate the Arabidopsis and maize candidates in separate clades, indicating that the two genes in each species arose via independent, relatively recent duplication events. [[FIGURE]]  Deletion of the yeast TPC1 gene, encoding the ThDP carrier, results in thiamin auxotrophy on synthetic minimal medium (SM) containing a fermentable carbon source such as galactose (Marobbio et al. CITATION). This auxotrophy enables a functional complementation assay for ThDP transport activity. The four candidate plant ThDP carriers were therefore cloned into yeast expression vector pYES2/CT and tested for the capacity to restore thiamin prototrophy on SM medium plus galactose to the tpc1Δ strain. All four candidates restored growth on thiamin-free medium almost to wild-type levels, whereas cells transformed with the vector alone, or vector harboring a negative control MCF protein (the Arabidopsis NAD+ carrier AtNDT1), showed very little or no growth (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  When tpc1Δ cells are cultured on thiamin-less SM medium plus galactose, their mitochondrial ThDP content falls far below that of wild-type cells (Marobbio et al. CITATION). As with the growth phenotype of the tpc1Δ strain, this biochemical phenotype was complemented by each of the Arabidopsis or maize proteins. Thus, expression of the plant proteins raised the mitochondrial ThDP level to at least that of the wild-type (Fig. 3a). Mitochondrial ThMP levels were not significantly impacted either by the tpc1Δ mutation or by expression of the plant proteins. The data for mitochondrial ThDP are strong evidence that the plant proteins mediate ThDP entry into mitochondria. [[FIGURE]]  Further support for this inference was obtained by measuring the activities of ThDP-dependent enzymes. When ThDP is not added to assays, the activity of the mitochondrial ThDP-dependent enzyme acetolactate synthase extracted from tpc1Δ cells is depressed whereas that of the cytosolic ThDP enzyme pyruvate decarboxylase is not (Marobbio et al. CITATION; Fig. 3b). Supplementing assays with ThDP raises acetolactate synthase activity of the tpc1Δ mutant to normal levels, showing that the activity reduction is due solely to cofactor deficiency (Marobbio et al. CITATION; Fig. 3b). Expression of each of the candidate proteins restored the activity of acetolactate synthase, assayed without ThDP, to wild-type levels but did not affect pyruvate decarboxylase activity (Fig. 3b). Collectively, these data show that expression of the plant ThDP carrier candidates is able to reverse the intramitochondrial ThDP deficiency characteristic of tpc1Δ cells. Subcellular localization of the four candidate plant ThDP carriers was investigated first by dual import assays (Rudhe et al. CITATION) in which mixtures of isolated pea chloroplasts and mitochondria were incubated with a radiolabeled candidate carrier. Soybean alternative oxidase (Rudhe et al. CITATION) and the Arabidopsis YgfZ protein At1g60990 (Waller et al. CITATION) served as positive controls for mitochondrial and chloroplast import, respectively. After incubation with each of the candidates, mitochondria contained a labeled product that was resistant to subsequent thermolysin digestion and was of the same size as the supplied precursor (Fig. 4). This behavior is expected for members of the MCF family, which typically lack cleavable targeting peptides and localize to the mitochondrial inner membrane, where they are protected from proteolytic degradation (Palmisano et al. CITATION; Haferkamp CITATION; Zara et al. CITATION; Palmieri and Pierri CITATION). By contrast, no candidate protein was detected in thermolysin-treated chloroplasts at more than the trace level seen in the alternative oxidase control (Fig. 4). Such trace levels can be ascribed to slight contamination of chloroplast fractions with mitochondria (Rudhe et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Subcellular localization of the candidate ThDP carriers was also investigated using tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells, serving as a well characterized system for studying protein targeting in vivo (Brandizzi et al. CITATION). Specifically, cells were transformed transiently (via biolistic bombardment) with each of the four candidates, fused to GFP at their N or C termini, followed by epifluorescence microscopic examination. The expressed C-terminal fusions of both maize proteins and both Arabidopsis proteins displayed a fluorescence pattern that co-localized with that attributable to the endogenous mitochondrial protein cytochrome oxidase subunit II (CoxII) (Millar et al. CITATION) (Fig. 5). By contrast, the N-terminal GFP fusions for all four proteins localized solely to the cytosol (not shown). It therefore appears that fusion to GFP via the N terminus disrupts the mitochondrial localization of these MCF carriers. In no case did any of the fusion proteins examined in this study localize to plastids, peroxisomes, or endoplasmic reticulum. [[FIGURE]]  To assess the physiological significance of each maize gene, the relative levels of their mRNAs were determined in ten diverse tissues representing the entire life cycle (Fig. 6). Expression of both genes was readily detected in all tissues, with that of GRMZM2G118515 always the higher; the average difference was 8-fold, rising to 20-fold in pollen. Microarray databases report that the two Arabidopsis genes are also expressed throughout the plant; their expression levels generally differ no more than 2-fold except in pollen, where At5g48970 expression is 10-fold higher than that of At3g21390 (Steinhauser et al. CITATION; Hruz et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  With a view to the potential use of our findings in the functional annotation of other plant genomes, we searched the NCBI protein database for plant homologs of At3g21390, At5g48970, GRMZM2G118515, and GRMZM2G124911. The best BlastP hits among eudicot, monocot, and gymnosperm proteins shared ~70–80% identity with the Arabidopsis and maize sequences; this value fell to 55–60% in lower land plants and to 45–50% in green algae. In all taxa, the best hits were clearly distinct from the next-best BlastP hits, which shared only ~33% identity with the Arabidopsis and maize sequences. Phylogenetic analysis of the best BlastP hits placed them in the same clade as At3g21390, At5g48970, GRMZM2G118515, GRMZM2G124911, and the animal and yeast ThDP transporters (Fig. S2). Within this clade, the plant sequences were arranged as expected from organismal phylogeny (Fig. S2). Phylogenetic analyses of the next-best BlastP hits invariably placed them outside the ThDP transporter clade (not shown).
!~MM~! Sequences of MCF carriers were taken from Palmieri et al. (CITATION) and Maizesequence.org. Sequence alignments were made with ClustalW and phylogenetic trees were constructed using MEGA5 (Tamura et al. CITATION). Primers used for expression analysis were designed using Primer Express 3.0 software (Applied Biosystems) according to the manufacturer’s recommendations (optimal melting point, 60°C; optimal primer length, 20 bp; amplicon length, 60–80 bp). These and primers used for cloning are listed in Table S1. Full-length cDNAs of Arabidopsis Tpc1p homologs At3g21390 and At5g48970 were isolated from cDNA libraries of stem and leaves, respectively. Maize ESTs corresponding to Tpc1p homologs GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911 (Zm_BFb0147P08 and Zm_BFb0221G16, respectively) were obtained from the Arizona Genomics Institute (Tucson, AZ, USA); sequencing confirmed that they encoded full-length proteins. The wild-type BY4741 (MATa his3Δ1 leu2Δ0 met15Δ0 ura3Δ0) and tpc1Δ yeast strains were provided by the EUROFAN resource center EUROSCARF (Frankfurt, Germany). The coding sequences of Arabidopsis Tpc1p homologs (At3g21390 and At5g48970) and maize homologs (GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911) were cloned into the HindIII–EcoRI restriction sites (At3g21390 and At5g48970) or HindIII–XhoI restriction sites (GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911) of the expression vector pYES2/CT (Invitrogen). The sequence-verified plasmids were introduced into the tpc1Δ strain and transformants were selected for uracil auxotrophy. Strains were grown in rich medium containing 2% (w/v) bactopeptone and 1% (w/v) yeast extract, synthetic complete medium, or thiamin-less synthetic minimal medium (Sherman CITATION). All media were supplemented with 2% (w/v) galactose. The tpc1Δ strain transformed with recombinant pYES2/CT vectors was grown in synthetic complete 2% glucose medium without uracil for 24 h and then transferred to synthetic minimal medium (SM) without thiamin (Marobbio et al. CITATION) supplemented with 2% galactose to give an OD600nm of 0.7, 16 h before fractionation. Mitochondria and post-mitochondrial supernatant were isolated as described (Daum et al. CITATION). To extract ThMP and ThDP, mitochondria were suspended in 70% (v/v) cold methanol, centrifuged, and kept at −80°C overnight (Lindhurst et al. CITATION). Samples were then lyophilized, redissolved in water, re-centrifuged, and filtered before ESI LC-MS/MS analysis using an Acquity UPLC system (Waters, Milford, MA, USA) coupled to a Quattro Premier mass spectrometer. Separations were made using a HSST3 C18 column (2.1 × 50 mm, 1.7 μm particle size; Waters) eluted (0.4 ml/min) with a linear gradient from 100% 0.1% TFA to 10% 0.1% TFA/90% acetonitrile (Lindhurst et al. CITATION). The multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) transitions monitored in the positive ion mode were m/z 345.1 > 122.1 for ThMP and m/z 425.1 > 122.1 for ThDP. Calibration curves for standards processed under the same conditions as samples were used for quantification. Acetolactate synthase activity was assayed spectrophotometrically as described (Magee and Robichon-Szulmajster CITATION). Mitochondria (125 μg protein), lysed in 0.05% Triton X-114 in assay buffer (159 mM KH2PO4 plus 2 mM MgSO4, adjusted with 1 M Tris to pH 7.2) with or without 1.5 mM ThDP, were incubated at 30°C for 15 min and then added to the assay buffer plus 50 mM pyruvate, final volume 1 ml. After 5 min at 30°C, the reaction was stopped with 0.04 ml of 6 N H2SO4 or 2.5 N NaOH. The acidified samples were heated for 15 min at 55°C. Acidified and alkalized samples were supplemented with 0.4 ml of 0.5% creatine and 0.4 ml of 4% α-naphthol in 2.5 N NaOH, mixed vigorously, held at 55°C for 5 min, and read at 530 nm. The amount of acetoin measured after acidification corresponds to acetolactate plus acetoin, since in acid conditions acetolactate spontaneously decarboxylates to give acetoin. The base addition allows measurement of acetoin alone. The difference between the two values is a measure of the acetolactate in the system. Pyruvate decarboxylase was assayed as described (Postma et al. CITATION). Post-mitochondrial supernatants (250 μg protein), preincubated with or without 5 mM ThDP at 30°C for 3 min in 75 mM MgCl2 and 20 mM Pipes pH 7.0, were added to the assay mixture containing 40 mM imidazole HCl buffer pH 6.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.15 mM NADH, and 88 units of alcohol dehydrogenase (Sigma), final volume 1 ml. Reactions were started by adding 50 mM pyruvate. For dual import assays (Rudhe et al. CITATION), cDNAs encoding full-length Arabidopsis and maize proteins were PCR amplified; forward primers (Table S1) included a Kozak sequence. Amplicons were cloned into pGEM-4Z (Promega). Soybean alternative oxidase (Rudhe et al. CITATION) and At1g60990 (Waller et al. CITATION) were used as positive controls for mitochondrial and chloroplast import, respectively. Pea chloroplasts (Cline CITATION) and mitochondria (Douce et al. CITATION) were isolated using Percoll gradient procedures; specific enzyme marker assays showed no detectable (≤ 2%) cross-contamination of organelles prepared by these procedures (Noiriel et al. CITATION). Coupled in vitro transcription–translation, dual import assays, thermolysin treatment, and repurification of organelles were performed as described (Pribat et al. CITATION). Import times used in the reactions were 5 min for At1g60990, 10 min for the four candidate ThDP transporters, and 20 min for soybean alternative oxidase. Two plasmids were used for transient expression assays: pRTL2∆NS/mGFP-MCS and pUC18/NcoI-mGFP. Both contain the 35S CMV promoter, but differ in that multiple cloning sites, or unique NcoI and BamHI sites, are immediately 3′ or 5′ of the open reading frame for a monomeric version of the green fluorescent protein (GFP), respectively (Shockey et al. CITATION; Clark et al. CITATION). cDNAs encoding full-length Arabidopsis and maize proteins were PCR amplified using suitable primers (Table S1) and cloned in frame into the BamHI–EcoRI (At3g21390 and At5g48970) or HindIII–EcoRI (GRMZM2G118515 and GRMZM2G124911) sites of pRTL2∆NS/mGFP-MCS, and the BamHI–NcoI sites of pUC18/NcoI-mGFP. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bright Yellow-2 [BY-2]) suspension cell cultures were maintained and prepared for bombardment as described previously (Lingard et al. CITATION). Transient (co-)transformations were performed using 4 μg plasmid DNA precipitated onto tungsten or gold microcarriers (Bio-Rad), along with a Biolistic® PDS-1000/HE particle delivery system (Bio-Rad). Bombarded cells were incubated for ~8 h to allow expression and sorting of the introduced gene products and to reduce potential negative effects of protein overexpression. Cells were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde, then permeabilized with 0.01% (w/v) pectolyase Y-23 (Kyowa Chemical Products) and 0.3% (v/v) Triton X-100 (Sigma-Aldrich). Rabbit α-cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (CoxII) antibodies (Cedarlane Laboratories) were raised against a keyhole limpet hemocyanin-conjugated synthetic peptide corresponding to the N. tabacum CoxII C-terminal sequence (VPRKDYGSRVSNQLIPQTGEAC) (YP_173412). Goat anti-rabbit Rhodamine Red-X IgGs were from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories. Epifluorescent images of cells were acquired using an Axioscope 2 MOT epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss) with a 63× Plan Apochromat oil-immersion objective. Images were captured using a Retiga 1300 CCD camera (Qimaging) and Openlab software (Improvision); figures were composed using Adobe Photoshop CS (Adobe Systems). All micrographs shown in the figures are representative images obtained from at least two replicate biolistic experiments. cDNA preparations from maize cv. W22 organs were a gift from K.E. Koch (University of Florida). Real-time PCR analyses were performed in 96-well plates using the Step One Plus System (Applied Biosystems) and optimized primer concentrations (50–900 nM). Concentrations leading to the lowest threshold cycle values (C T) were used to calculate amplification efficiency. Standard conditions were used with Fast SYBR Green Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) (95°C for 10 min and 40 cycles of 95°C for 15 s, 60°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 30 s). The 2 T –ΔC quantification method (Schmittgen and Livak CITATION) was used for quantification, with an 18S RNA (GenBank AF168884.1) as internal reference.
