!~ABS~! Dirigent proteins impart stereoselectivity on the phenoxy radical‐coupling reaction, yielding optically active lignans from two molecules of coniferyl alcohol. By an unknown mechanism, they direct the coupling of two phenoxy radicals toward the formation of optically active (+)‐ or (−)‐pinoresinol. We show here that the dirigent protein AtDIR6 from Arabidopsis thaliana is a homodimeric all‐beta protein in the superfamily of calycins. Based on its homology with calycins, the structure of AtDIR6 was modeled using allene oxide cyclase as template. The structural model of AtDIR6 was supported experimentally by confirmation of a predicted disulfide bridge and by the characterization of two N‐linked glycans at the solvent‐exposed protein surface. The model shows AtDIR6 as an eight‐stranded antiparallel β‐barrel with a central hydrophobic cavity for substrate binding, suggesting that dirigent proteins evolved from hydrophobic ligand‐binding proteins. The data are fully consistent with the current view of the dirigent protein mode of action, according to which each subunit of the homodimer captures one of the substrate radicals and orients them in a way that precludes undesired reaction channels, thus favoring the formation of the optically pure coupling product.  Structured digital abstract     AtDIR6 and AtDIR6 bind by cross‐linking study (View interaction)   AtDIR6 and AtDIR6 bind by molecular sieving (View interaction) 
!~RES~! We recently reported the cloning and initial characterization of AtDIR6 from A. thaliana, which exhibits a novel and unique dirigent activity. In the presence of laccase/O2 as oxidant, AtDIR6 mediates the formation of (−)‐pinoresinol from coniferyl alcohol [CITATION] and it is thus enantio‐complementary to the DIRs previously characterized from Forsythia and Thuja [CITATION, CITATION]. In this study we addressed some structural aspects of AtDIR6 to further our understanding of the mode of action of DIRs.  The quarternary structure of AtDIR6 was analyzed by chemical cross‐linking of the purified protein. While denatured AtDIR6 exhibits an apparent molecular mass of 20 kDa during denaturing SDS/PAGE, chemical cross‐linking resulted in a single, higher‐molecular‐weight band of 42 kDa that corresponded to the homodimer (Fig. 2B). Analytical gel‐filtration indicated a somewhat higher molecular mass of 52 kDa (Fig. 2A), which is still consistent with a homodimeric structure of the native protein, considering that AtDIR6 is glycosylated [CITATION] (see also below) and may thus not behave like a perfectly globular protein during gel filtration. The suggested AtDIR6 dimer is also in good agreement with previous findings for FiDIR1 [CITATION] and the proposed mode of action of DIRs, according to which each subunit of the dimeric protein binds one of the substrate molecules during the bimolecular coupling reaction [CITATION].  [[FIGURE]] In the following, we compared AtDIR6 and FiDIR1 with respect to secondary structure composition using CD spectroscopy in the far‐UV range (190–260 nm). The overall shape of the spectra obtained for AtDIR6 and FiDIR1 was very similar, with maxima at 195 nm and minima at 222 and 218 nm, respectively, indicating high β‐sheet and low α‐helical contents (Fig. 3A). The recorded spectra were also similar to those previously reported for native FiDIR1 isolated from F. intermedia stem tissue [CITATION], indicating that the DIRs obtained here in recombinant form from a cell‐culture expression system had folded correctly to assume their native structure.  [[FIGURE]] The algorithms CDSSTR [CITATION] and CONTIN‐LL [CITATION] were used to estimate secondary structure composition of AtDIR6 and FiDIR1. While both algorithms yielded similar results, the spectra calculated using CDSSTR scored as excellent (normalized rmsd < 0.1) [CITATION], compared with those calculated using CONTIN‐LL, which resulted in a somewhat less reliable fit (normalized rmsd < 0.2). We therefore show the results only for CDSSTR (Fig. 3B), indicating that AtDIR6 and FiDIR1 are both rich in β‐strands (51% and 44%, respectively) and almost devoid of α‐helix (3% and 6%, respectively). The content of turns was estimated at 10% for both proteins, while those of unordered regions were predicted at 36% and 39% for AtDIR6 and FiDIR1, respectively. The data suggest highly similar, β‐sheet‐dominated structures for the enantio‐complementary (+)‐ and (−)‐pinoresinol‐forming DIRs. Consistent with the results from CD spectroscopy, the secondary structure prediction algorithm at NetSurfP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetSurfP/) [CITATION, CITATION] detected nine potential β‐strands separated by regions of coil in mature AtDIR6 (Fig. 4A,B), suggesting that DIRs are all‐beta proteins.  [[FIGURE]] In order to obtain insight into the topology and tertiary structure of DIRs, distant homologs to AtDIR6, FiDIR1 and TpDIR7 were searched using the HHpred server [CITATION]. For all three query sequences, the same three top‐scoring proteins were found. AOC2 [Protein Data Bank (PDB) entry 2brj] [CITATION], which shares only 11% sequence identity with AtDir6, was predicted as an AtDIR6 homolog with 97% probability, followed by two hypothetical proteins from Shewanella spp. with probabilities of 79% and 45% (PDB entries 2ooj and 2q03, respectively; Table 1). In good agreement with the CD spectroscopic data, the three proteins belong to the all‐beta class and share the fold of an AOC‐like barrel (i.e. an eight‐stranded antiparallel β‐barrel).  AOC2 belongs to the superfamily of calycins which are characterized by a central β‐barrel that forms a hydrophobic ligand‐binding cavity [CITATION, CITATION]. Within the calycin superfamily, AOC2 is most closely related to lipocalins with respect to tertiary structure and fold. AOC2 has thus been considered a distant member of the lipocalin family [CITATION, CITATION], a diverse group of small extracellular proteins best known for their ability to bind a remarkable array of small hydrophobic molecules. Consistent with this notion, an Escherichia coli lipocalin (YodA, PDB code 1txl [CITATION]) was identified as a possible DIR homolog by HHpred with, however, much lower probability than AOC2 (Table 1).  As the probability score for homology between DIRs and lipocalins was low compared with AOC2, we analyzed the primary structure of DIRs for the presence of signature sequences typically found in lipocalins, to either support or reject the possibility of a homologous relationship. Flower identified three structurally conserved regions (SCRs) of the lipocalin fold [CITATION], in which the most highly conserved sequence motifs are ‘GxWY’ in SCR‐I, ‘TDYxxY’ in SCR‐II and ‘R’ in SCR‐III. All three sequence motifs are present in the core lipocalins, whereas in the more distantly related family members (i.e. the outlier lipocalins), no more than two of the three motifs are conserved. As the first motif in SCR‐I is shared by all lipocalins, it serves as a diagnostic of family membership [CITATION]. We checked selected DIRs for the presence of the SCR‐I‐associated sequence motif in a sequence alignment with representatives of the core and the outlier lipocalins [odorant‐binding protein 1 from Rattus norvegicus (RnOBP1)]. Despite the low (< 10%) overall sequence identity, but consistent with the classification by Flower [CITATION], all three sequence motifs were well conserved and readily aligned among core lipocalins, while only the partially conserved SCR‐I motif was detected in RnOPB1 (Fig. 5). DIRs also showed some sequence similarity with lipocalins in the SCR‐I region (Fig. 5), which is consistent with a distant relationship between DIRs and lipocalins, as suggested by HHpred (Table 1). However, the GxWY motif was not complete; the aromatic character of the last two amino acids, but not the identity of the residues, was conserved and the motif could thus not be located unambiguously (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] To obtain experimental support for the suggested distant homology and structural similarity between DIRs, AOCs and other calycins, AtAOC2 and the outlier lipocalin RnOBP1 were expressed in E. coli and purified from bacterial extracts (Fig. S1). Recombinant AtAOC2 and RnOBP1 were compared with AtDIR6 and FiDIR1 with respect to secondary structure composition by CD spectroscopy. While the overall shape of the spectra differed considerably (Fig. 3A), the secondary structure composition, as determined by CDSSTR, was almost identical (Fig. 3B). Like AtDIR6 and FiDIR1, AtAOC2 and RnOBP1 exhibited a high content of β‐strand, very little α‐helix and similar fractions of turn and coil regions (Fig. 3B). These findings support the conclusion that DIRs are all‐beta proteins belonging to the calycin superfamily. Considering the apparent (> 95% probability) homology with AtAOC2 compared with the suggested, more distant, relationship with lipocalins, we predict that the 3D structure of DIRs resembles the AOC barrel rather than the similar, but distinct, lipocalin fold [Structural Classification of Proteins (SCOP); Table 1). Based on these conclusions we modeled the structure of AtDIR6 using the published AOC2 structure (AtAOC2, PDB code 2brj [CITATION]) as the template.  BLAST searches identified 73 and 97 sequences homologous to the template (AtAOC2) and the target protein (AtDIR6), respectively. A profile–profile alignment (Fig. S2) of the two sets of sequences was derived and used to generate the first structural model showing AtDIR6 as an eight‐stranded antiparallel β‐barrel (the strands were labelled β1 to β8; Fig. S3). The position of the eight β‐strands, as determined by the define secondary structure of proteins (DSSP) algorithm [CITATION] from the model structure, was in overall agreement with the secondary structure predicted from the AtDIR6 sequence by NetSurfP. In two regions, however, this first model deviated from the secondary structure prediction in that (a) β1 was modeled as two short discontinuous strands, separated by a loop with high β‐strand probability and (b) there was a high probability prediction for β‐strand formation also for part of the loop modeled between β7 and β8 (Fig. S3). We therefore adjusted the sequence alignment manually in these two regions (Fig. 6A) and used the refined alignment to build a second model (Fig. 6B‐E). This refined model (model data for AtDIR6 are available in the PMDB database under the accession number PM0078038 (http://mi.caspur.it/PMDB/) was in good agreement with the structure of the template (Fig. 6B), CD spectroscopy data (Fig. 3) and the secondary‐structure predictions (Fig. S4), including a short 310‐helix that was modeled as part of the loop between β‐strands 6 and 7 and predicted by NetSurfP with 45% probability (Fig. 4A). Deviating from the AOC2 structure, but in agreement with the NetSurfP secondary structure prediction for the template, an additional β‐strand (β1′) was built by the modeling process between A63 and V66. Strand β1′ hydrogen‐bonds to β2 in an anti‐parallel manner and extends the upper rim of the barrel (Fig. 6B). Another special feature of AtDIR6, which was not present in AtAOC2, is a disulfide bridge that was suggested by the close proximity (5.3 Å) of the Cα atoms of Cys40 and Cys186. The predicted disulfide bridge links the N‐ and C‐termini of mature AtDIR6 (Fig. 6C,E). Its covalent bond potentially reinforces the interaction between β1 and β8 and may thus contribute to the stability of the barrel.  [[FIGURE]] Similarly to AtAOC2 and other calycins, the inner surface of the AtDIR6 barrel is lined by hydrophobic residues forming a putative binding cavity for hydrophobic ligands (Fig. 6D). These residues and further amino acids that are known to be involved in ligand interactions in the template structure were analysed for > 50% conservation in the sequence alignment of DIRs and AOCs (Table 2). Four of the hydrophobic residues (F74, V80, F82 and F116) were found to be identical in the template and target structures, and two (V80 and F82) were highly conserved among all DIRs and AOCs. Nine out of 11 conserved ligand‐binding residues in AOCs are also conserved in DIRs. However, the residues that are conserved in seven of these positions in DIRs differ from those in AOCs. For example, residues N23, S31, P32 and N53 that coordinate a tightly bound water molecule in AOCs are replaced in DIRs by D49, T61, S62 and G84 (Table 2).  To obtain experimental support for the structural model of AtDIR6, we analysed (a) whether AtDIR6 obtained as a recombinant protein from tomato cell cultures contains the predicted disulfide bridge and (b) whether glycosylation sites are consistent with the model and localized at the solvent‐exposed outer surface of the barrel. Purified AtDIR6, with and without prior reduction by 10 mm dithiothreitol, was subjected to tryptic digestion and MALDI‐TOF peptide‐mass fingerprint analysis. A mass peak of 1162.7 Da, which corresponds to the mass calculated for the disulfide‐linked tryptic peptides KPCK(38‐41) and LYECY(183–187) (Fig. 4B), was present in the fingerprint of the native protein but not in that of the reduced protein (Fig. S5). MS/MS analysis of this ion confirmed the presence of the two disulfide‐linked peptides (MS/MS spectra in Fig. S6 and Table S1). Conversely, the 747.3 Da mass peak, corresponding to the unlinked LYECY peptide, was only present in the tryptic digest of reduced AtDIR6 (Figs. S5 and S7, Table S2). These data indicate that in the native protein, Cys40 and Cys186 are engaged in a disulfide bridge, thus supporting the structural model of AtDIR6 (Fig. 6).  DIRs were previously shown to be glycosylated in planta [CITATION] as well as in insect [CITATION] and in plant cell [11] expression systems, but the sites of glycosylation and the structure of the glycan chains are unknown. Within the sequence of mature AtDIR6, the NxS/T consensus sequence for N‐linked glycosylation is found twice, at N59 and at N123 (scores of 0.513 and 0.569, respectively, with NetNGlyc 1.0; Fig. 4B) [CITATION]. The corresponding nonglycosylated tryptic peptides with predicted masses of 3684.8 Da (H42 to K75) and 2353.1 Da (M110 to K128) were not detected in the peptide mass fingerprint of purified AtDIR6, suggesting that they may be subjected to post‐translational modification, possibly glycosylation. The most common glycan structures in plants are complex glycans (2190 Da) and paucimannosidic glycans (1170 Da; Man3‐Xyl‐GlcNAc2‐Fuc), which derive from the complex type by successive elimination of two Lewis a (Lea) epitopes [Galβ1‐3(Fucα1‐4)GlcNAc; 510 Da each] [CITATION]. Visual inspection of the MALDI‐TOF MS spectrum of a tryptic AtDIR6 digest identified mass peaks of 4854.78 and 3523.43 Da, which could be attributed to the two elusive peptides with the mass of a paucimannosidic‐type glycan chain added (2353.22 + 1170 = 3523.22; 3684.78 + 1170 = 4854.78). MS/MS analysis confirmed the identity of the two peptides (Figures S8 and S9, Tables S3 and S4) and of the glycan chains (Fig. S10), indicating N59 and N123 as sites for post‐translational modification by the addition of paucimannosidic glycan chains. In the structural model of AtDIR6, the two glycosylation sites are located on the solvent‐exposed protein surface: N59 in the loop between β1 and β1’ and N123 at the end of β4 (Fig. 6). The sites of N‐linked glycosylation and solvent exposure of the glycan chains are fully consistent with the proposed model of AtDIR6. 
!~MM~! AtDIR6 and FiDIR1 were expressed in a tomato cell system and purified as described previously [CITATION]. E. coli strains harboring expression constructs for His‐tagged AtAOC2 [CITATION] and RnOBP1 [CITATION] were gifts from Florian Schaller (Ruhr‐University Bochum) and Heinz Breer (University of Hohenheim), respectively. Protein expression was induced using 1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside for 4 h at 37 °C. Cells were harvested by centrifugation and lysed with BugBuster (Novagen/Merck, VWR‐International, Bruchsal, Germany). The extract was cleared by centrifugation, then, the recombinant proteins were purified on Ni‐nitrilotriacetic acid‐agarose (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and transferred to 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer at pH 5.9. The purity of protein samples was confirmed by SDS/PAGE followed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining and immunodetection on western blots using a polyclonal α‐AtDIR6 antiserum [CITATION] and a monoclonal α‐His6‐antibody (Roche Diagnostics, Grenzach‐Wyhlen, Germany), respectively.  The zero‐length cross‐linker 1‐ethyl‐3‐[3‐dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide (EDC) (Sigma‐Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) was used as described by Halls and Lewis [CITATION]. Briefly, 1 μg of purified AtDIR6 was incubated in 1 mL of 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.9) in the presence of 8 mm EDC at 20 °C under continuous agitation at 300 rpm on a thermomixer (Eppendorf, Wesseling‐Berzdorf, Germany). Aliquots were taken after 0, 5, 10, 20 and 30 min. The reaction was stopped by the addition of β‐mercaptoethanol at a final concentration of 50 mm. Cross‐linked proteins were precipitated and analysed by SDS/PAGE, western blotting and immunodetection.  One‐hundred micrograms of AtDIR6 protein in 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.9) was loaded onto a Superdex HR 10/30 column on an Äkta Purifier chromatography system (GE Healthcare, München, Germany) and eluted at a flow rate of 1 mL·min−1. The column was calibrated with BSA (67 kDa molecular mass), ovalbumin (43 kDa molecular mass), chymotrypsinogen A (25 kDa molecular mass) and RNase A (13.7 kDa molecular mass; Gel Filtration Calibration Kit for Low Molecular Weight Proteins; GE Healthcare). The linear relationship between log10(MW) of the standard proteins and their gel phase distribution coefficient (Kav) was described by the equation log10(MW) = −3.2012*Kav + 3.077 (r2 = 0,973). For AtDIR6, a Kav of 1.7167 was determined, corresponding to a molecular mass of 52.1 kDa.  A spectropolarimeter (J‐715; Jasco, Tokyo, Japan) was used for CD measurements with 0.5‐mm and 1‐mm path‐length quartz cuvettes (Hellma AG, Müllheim, Germany). All experiments were performed in 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer, pH 5.9. Protein samples were diluted until the dynode voltage did not exceed 650 V during the entire scan. Background‐corrected CD spectra were recorded in triplicate in the 190–260 nm range with a scan speed of 20 nm·min−1 and a step width of 1 nm. A response time of 4 s and an excitation bandwidth of 2 nm were chosen to improve the signal‐to‐noise ratio. The Savitzky‐Golay filter was used for smoothing the spectra. To facilitate the comparison of spectra from different samples, all spectra were normalized to mean residue weight ellipticity (θMRW) [deg cm2·dmol−1], according to the formula: θMRW(λ) = θmdeg(λ)·MW·(n·c·d·10)−1, where θmdeg(λ) is the recorded ellipticity in millidegrees for a given wavelength, MW is the molecular weight of the protein (in Da), d is the path length of the cuvette (in cm), n is the number of amino acid residues and c is the sample concentration (in mg·mL−1).  Secondary structure predictions were performed at the DICHROWEB server (http://dichroweb.cryst.bbk.ac.uk/html/home.shtml) [CITATION, CITATION] using combinations of the SP175short data set [CITATION] with the CDSSTR [CITATION] and CONTIN [CITATION] algorithms, respectively. The quality of the fit of experimental data to the reference data was assessed by calculating the normalized rmsd according to Mao et al. [CITATION].  The HHpred server [CITATION] was used to search for distant homologs of AtDIR6, FiDIR1 and TpDIR7 (global alignment, scop70 database version 1.75). As template structure for structural modeling of AtDIR6, the PDB [CITATION] entry of the AOC from A. thaliana with the highest resolution (PDB entry 2BRJ, resolution 1.50 Å) [CITATION] was selected, and the sequence of mature AtDIR6 was used as the target sequence. Secondary structure analysis of template and modeled structures was performed by DSSP [CITATION], and secondary structure prediction of the target sequence (AtDIR6) was performed by NetSurfP [CITATION].  Two BLAST [CITATION] searches starting with the template and the target sequences (AOC and AtDIR6, respectively) were performed using default parameters. Sequences were selected up to a threshold E‐value of 10−15. With the resulting sequences, two multisequence alignments were generated using ClustalX 2.0 [CITATION] and then a profile–profile alignment was obtained for the two alignments. Because the template and the target sequences were included in the two initial multisequence alignments, the profile–profile alignment resulted in an alignment of the template and the target sequence, which was then used as a basis for homology modeling with Modeller 9.8 [CITATION]. Afterwards, the model was manually refined by modification of two regions of the alignment. Model data are accessible at http://mi.caspur.it/PMDB under accession number PM0078038.  In‐gel digestion of AtDIR6 was conducted with trypsin (Roche, Penzberg, Germany), as described by Shevchenko et al. [CITATION]. The samples were reconstituted in 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid and aliquots were mixed with an equal volume (0.5–1.5 μL) of matrix solution [5 mg·mL−1 of dihydroxy benzoic acid in acetonitrile/0.1% trifluoroacetic acid (50%: 50%, v/v)] on a stainless steel target. Peptide mass fingerprints and MS/MS spectra were acquired on an Autoflex III MALDI‐TOF/TOF mass spectrometer (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany) in the positive ion mode. The instrument was externally calibrated using peptide calibration standards (Bruker Daltonics). The spectra were recorded in reflector mode using an accelerating voltage of 21 kV and 1000–3000 shots per sample. Data processing was performed using flex analysis 3.0 and bio‐tools 3.0 software (Bruker Daltonics). Peptide mass fingerprints and MALDI‐TOF/TOF spectra were interpreted using the mascot™ 2.2 software (Matrix Science, London, UK) in combination with the NCBI protein database for Viridiplantae. Search parameters specified trypsin as a cleaving enzyme, allowing two missed cleavages, a 50 p.p.m. mass tolerance for peptide precursors and a tolerance of 0.6 Da for fragment ions. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine residues was set as a fixed modification, and methionine oxidation and N‐terminal acetylation of proteins were allowed as variable modifications.  For detection of peptides involved in disulfide‐bridge formation, peptide fingerprints were compared for AtDIR6 with and without prior reduction by 10 mm dithiothreitol. The identity of candidate disulfide‐linked peptides was confirmed by MS/MS. Glycosylated AtDIR6 peptides were identified and characterized as described previously [CITATION]. 
