!~ABS~! ► ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 are expressed in guard cells in Arabidopsis. ► ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 interact with ROP11 on plasma membranes in guard cells. ► ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 co-exist with ROP11 in the same protein complex. ► ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 are regulators of ROP11 in ABA-mediated stomatal closure.
!~RES~! To search for the specific regulators of ROP11 function in ABA-mediated stomatal movement, we systemically survey for the interactions between ROP11 and 14 Arabidopsis ROPGEFs using LCI assays CITATION in the leaves of N. benthamiana. Because the dominant-negative (DN) form of ROPs has increased affinity for ROPGEFs CITATION, the full-length coding sequences of 14 ROPGEFs were individually cloned from Arabidopsis cDNAs and fused to the C-terminal half of the LUC gene (LUCN). Accordingly, the coding sequence of DN-ROP11 was fused to the N-terminal half of the LUC gene (LUCC). Paired constructs of DN-ROP11-LUCC and ROPGEF-LUCN were transiently co-expressed in the leaves of N. benthamiana through Agrobacteria-mediated co-infiltration. The results showed that among 14 ROPGEFs, co-expression of ROPGEF1, 2, 4, 8, or 9, with DN-ROP11 produced strong LUC activity in N. benthamiana leaves, whereas no or only very low LUC activity was detected in combinations of DN-ROP11 and other ROPGEFs (CITATION A). Next, we used Y2H assays to test the interactions between ROP11 and the ROPGEFs that were identified in LIC assays. The full-length coding sequences of ROPGEF1, 2, 4, 8, and 9 were cloned into the bait vector pGBK, and DN-ROP11 was cloned into the prey vector pGAD. The paired bait and prey vectors were co-transformed into yeast strain AH109. Co-expression of ROPGEF1, 2, 4, 8, or 9 and DN-ROP11 enabled yeast to grow on the selective medium, confirming that the five ROPGFEs could physically interact with ROP11 (CITATIONB). We previously reported that ROP11 is preferentially expressed in guard cells CITATION. As the functional regulators of ROP11 in the control of stomatal movement, the ROPGEFs must also be expressed in guard cells. To determine which of the ROPGEFs identified in LIC and H2Y assays are expressed in guard cells, we individually fused the promoters of these five ROPGEFs to a GUS reporter gene and examined their expression patterns in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. ROPGEF1-GUS was expressed in all plant parts examined, including roots, leaves, flowers, and siliques (CITATION A). In the aerial parts, ROPGEF1-GUS was expressed in all kinds of cells including guard cells in cotyledons, stems, sepals, petals, anthers, stigmas, and siliques. ROPGEF2-GUS was mainly expressed in the vascular tissues of roots, leaves, sepals, petals, and siliques, and its expression in guard cells was not detected (CITATION). In ROPGEF4-GUS plants, GUS expression was detected in the root vascular tissue and epidermal cells that form the trichoblast files (CITATIONB). Interestingly, like ROP11-GUS, ROPGEF4-GUS was preferentially expressed in guard cells in cotyledons, rosette leaves, sepals, petal, stigmas, and siliques (CITATIONB). In ROPGEF8-GUS and ROPGEF9-GUS plants, GUS activities were exclusively detected in pollen grains and pollen tubes (CITATION). Taken together, ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 appear to be the only candidates that can serve as functional regulators of ROP11 in guard cells. We previously showed that ROP11 is localized in the plasma membrane and nucleus CITATION. To determine the subcellular localization of ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4, we fused the full-length coding sequence of ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 to a red fluorescence protein (mCherry) and transiently expressed these fused genes in N. benthamiana leaves. The results showed that both ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 were strongly localized in the plasma membrane and weakly localized in the cytosol (CITATION A). We also used a yellow fluorescence protein (YFP) bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) system to investigate where ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 interacted with ROP11 in plant cells. ROPGEF1 or ROPGEF1 was fused to the N-terminus of YFP and was co-expressed with DN-ROP11 that was fused to the C-terminus of YFP in N. benthamiana leaves. Co-expression of ROPGEF1-YFPN or ROPGEF4-YFPN with YFPC-ROP11 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter reconstructed YFP fluorescence in the plasma membrane of leaf guard cells (CITATIONB) and pavement cells (data not shown). These results indicated that ROPGEF1 and 4 interact with ROP11 in plasma membranes. We then used co-immunoprecipitation to investigate whether ROPEGF1/4 and ROP11 co-exist in the same protein complex. MYC-tagged ROPGEF1 or MYC-tagged ROPGEF4 and HA-tagged DN-ROP11 gene fragments were amplified from corresponding pGBK-ROPGEF1/4 and pGAD-DN-ROP11 vectors and cloned into plant expression vectors and co-expressed in N. benthamiana leaves under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Western blot assays with anti-HA antibodies detected the expression of DN-ROP11 in the leaves transformed with HA-DN-ROP11 or co-transformed with a HA-DN-ROP11 and MYC-ROPGEF1 or MYC-ROPGEF4 constructs (CITATIONC INPUT). Similarly, the expression of MYC-ROPGEF1 or MYC-ROPGEF4 proteins was confirmed with MYC antibodies in the leaves of plants transformed with ROPGEF1 or ROPGEF4 or co-transformed with a DN-ROP11 and ROPGEF1 or ROPGEF4 constructs (CITATIONC, INPUT). Finally, the proteins extracted from leaves co-transformed with DN-ROP11 and ROPGEF1 or ROPGEF4 gene constructs were subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-HA antibodies. In this HA-precipitated protein fraction, MYC-ROPGEF1 or MYC-ROPGEF4 was detected by anti-MYC antibodies (CITATIONC, IP). These results demonstrated that ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 co-exist with ROP11 in the same protein complex. Finally, we investigated the functions of ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 in ABA-mediated stomatal closure and in plant tolerance to drought stress. T-DNA insertion lines for ROPGEF1 (SALK_144922, designated ropgef1) and ROPGEF4 (SAIL_184_C08, designated ropgef4), which were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, were confirmed to be null alleles by RT-PCR analyses (CITATION). There was only a slight difference in the responses of stomata to ABA between the wild type (WT) and each of these two single-knockout mutants (CITATION A). The ropgef1ropgef4 double mutant, however, showed higher ABA sensitivity than the WT or the ropgef1 or ropgef4 single mutants. In contrast, the transgenic lines that overexpressed ROPGEF1 or ROPGEF4 under the 35S promoter were relatively insensitive to ABA-induced stomatal closure (CITATIONB) and became severely wilted when water was withheld (CITATIONC); the latter phenotype is similar to that of plants expressing a constitutively active ROP11 protein CITATION. Taken together, these results indicate that ROPGEF1 and ROPGEF4 are the specific regulators of ROP11 function in ABA-mediated stomatal closure.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and Nicotiana benthamiana were used. Sterilized Arabidopsis seeds were sown on MS medium containing 1% sucrose. After stratification for 3d at 4°C, the plates were transferred to a growth room at 23°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod with a light intensity of 80μmol·m−2 s−1. For phenotypic analysis of adult plants, 8-day-old seedlings were transplanted into soil (rich soil:vermiculite=1:1) and grown to maturity. N. benthamiana seeds were sown directly into soil and grown for 5weeks before use. The T-DNA insertion mutants of ROPGEF1 (SALK_144922), and ROPGEF4 (SAIL_184_C08) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (www.arabidopsis.org/abrc/). Homozygous plants of each T-DNA line were identified by PCR analysis using primers designed with the aid of the following website: http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html; the sequences of primers used for identification are provided in CITATION. The gef1gef4 double mutants were obtained through genetic cross using single mutant lines. The 35S-ROPGEF1, 35S-ROPGEF4, and all promoter-GUS transgenic plants were generated with the floral dip transformation procedure using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 CITATION. Transformants were selected on MS medium in the presence of 40μg/ml kanamycin or 30μg/ml hygromycin. The homozygote transgenic lines were selected in the subsequent generation based on the segregation of kanamycin- or hygromycin-resistant phenotypes. The detailed procedures for construction of all the plasmids used in this study are described in the CITATION. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by the floral dip method CITATION. For RT-PCR analysis, total RNAs were extracted from 9-day-old seedlings of SALK T-DNA lines using the RNAeasy kit (QIAGEN). The first-strand cDNA was synthesized using the Invitrogen Superscript||cDNA Synthesis Kit. RT-PCR was performed with the specific primers listed in CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) analysis was carried out with the MatchMaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The coding sequences of interest were cloned into either pGADT7 or pGBKT7 vectors. The resultant constructs were co-transformed into the yeast strain AH109. Transformants selected from SD/-Trp/-Leu medium were transferred onto SD/-Trp/-Leu/-Ade/-His medium and were allowed to grow for 3–5d at 30°C. The histochemical analysis of GUS activity was performed according to Jeffeson CITATION. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression in N. benthamiana leaves was performed as described CITATION. An Agrobacterium suspension carrying a given construct was infiltrated into young, fully expanded N. benthamiana leaves using a needleless syringe. For co-infiltration, the two Agrobacterium cultures were mixed in a 1:1 ratio. After infiltration for 50h, subcellular localization of GFP or mCherry-tagged proteins in leaf pavement cells was determined with a Zeiss LSM 710 confocal microscope. For firefly luciferase (LUC) complementation imaging assays (LCI), luciferin was sprayed on the surface of N. benthamiana leaves, and LUC fluorescence chemical signal was captured with a low-light cooled CCD camera (Andor iXon CCD camera, Andor Technology Ltd., South Windsor, CT). The first 5min of exposure were used to quench background fluorescence, and the second 5min of exposure were used to collect the LUC signal. For co-immunoprecipitation assays, leaves were harvested, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C for further use. Protein extracts were prepared from N. benthamiana leaves injected with Agrobacterium suspensions with a given construct. N. benthamiana leaves (2g) in liquid nitrogen were ground into a fine powder. The powders were transferred into 4ml of ice-cold extraction buffer (150mM NaCl, 50mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 5mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, 1mM DTT, 1×cocktail protease inhibitor (Roche), and 1mM PMSF), briefly mixed with a vortex mixer, and incubated at 4°C for 30min. The protein extracts were centrifuged at 8000×g for 10min to remove cell debris. The protein concentration in each lysate was adjusted to the same value. Protein extracts (1ml) were incubated with 1μg/ml HA monoclonal antibody (Abmart) at 4°C overnight. Protein G agarose beads (20μl, Roche) were added to precipitate the antigen/antibody complex. After incubation at 4°C for 2h, the beads were collected by centrifugation at 8000×g for 3min, and were washed four times with extraction buffer. The beads were resuspended in 50μl of 2×Laemmli buffer and boiled at 100°C for 3min to release the proteins. The supernatant was collected by brief centrifugation. Protein samples (15μl) were fractionated by SDS–PAGE electrophoresis, and immunoblotting was performed using anti-MYC monoclonal antibody (Abmart). The detailed procedures for analysis of ABA-induced stomatal closure and plant drought tolerance are provided in the CITATION.
