!~ABS~! Cytosolic ribosomes are among the largest multisubunit cellular complexes. Arabidopsis thaliana ribosomes consist of 79 different ribosomal proteins (r‐proteins) that each are encoded by two to six (paralogous) genes. It is unknown whether the paralogs are incorporated into the ribosome and whether the relative incorporation of r‐protein paralogs varies in response to environmental cues. Immunopurified ribosomes were isolated from A. thaliana rosette leaves fed with sucrose. Trypsin digested samples were analyzed by qTOF‐LC‐MS using both MSE and classical MS/MS. Peptide features obtained by using these two methods were identified using MASCOT and Proteinlynx Global Server searching the theoretical sequences of A. thaliana proteins. The A. thaliana genome encodes 237 r‐proteins and 69% of these were identified with proteotypic peptides for most of the identified proteins. These r‐proteins were identified with average protein sequence coverage of 32% observed by MSE. Interestingly, the analysis shows that the abundance of r‐protein paralogs in the ribosome changes in response to sucrose feeding. This is particularly evident for paralogous RPS3aA, RPS5A, RPL8B, and RACK1 proteins. These results show that protein synthesis in the A. thaliana cytosol involves a heterogeneous ribosomal population. The implications of these findings in the regulation of translation are discussed. 
!~RES~! The aim of this study was to investigate whether quantitative changes could be detected in the r‐protein composition of the ribosome population, in relation to low (no supplements) or high (6%) sucrose growth conditions. Rosette leaves of 4‐ to 5‐ wk‐old transgenic A. thaliana 35S:HF‐RPL18B CITATION plants were harvested from three independent batches of plants (Supporting Information Fig. S1) and incubated for 24 h in liquid half times Murashige‐Skoog media with or without the addition of 6% sucrose (w/v). High sucrose levels were shown to repress translation of the bZIP11 and other S1 group transcription factor mRNAs CITATION. Previous research has shown that translation of the bZIP11 transcription factor mRNA is regulated by sucrose. In the presence of high sucrose levels, a ribosome stalling complex is formed in a process that requires synthesis of the conserved uORF2 encoded sucrose control (SC) peptide CITATION. Likely, ribosome intrinsic or associated proteins are responsible for this evolutionarily conserved sucrose dependent stalling in a process that requires the SC peptide. Possibly, the ribosome r‐protein composition changes in response to sucrose in a way that affects bZIP11 mRNA translation. Affinity isolation of ribosomes was performed with the immunotagged RPL18B A. thaliana line, as described in Zanetti et al. CITATION. Initial MS analysis of trypsin digested ribosomes isolated from untreated rosette leaves confirmed that the extracts contain mainly r‐proteins. No major cytosolic contamination was detected in the ribosomal preparations as determined by Western blotting using the cFBPase antibody. Very limited levels of proteins were immunoprecipitated from wild‐type plants (Col‐0) lacking the RPL18B transgene, except for low levels of very high molecular weight proteins of unknown nature, as shown by silver stained SDS‐PAGE (Supporting Information Fig. S3). Substantial levels of rRNA and mRNA were present in the ribosomal extracts as determined by q‐PCR, confirming that the immunopurified ribosomal complexes includes ribosomes engaged in translation. Sucrose treatment efficiently triggered the altered expression of several previously studied marker genes (Supporting Information Fig. S4).  For LC‐MS analysis immunopurified, r‐proteins were precipitated with acetone, digested with trypsin, and peptides purified using C18 SPE for LC‐MS analysis. Peptide identification was based on DIA (MSE) as well as DDA (MS/MS) analysis; the 12 extracts (six control‐treated (CON) and six sucrose (6%) treated (SUC)) were analyzed in duplicate in LC‐MSE mode (Supporting Information Fig. S1) with alternating low and high collision energy, as described in Refs. CITATION-CITATION. In addition to MSE mode, some extracts were also analyzed in MS/MS mode to confirm peptide sequences identified by MSE and to complement MSE identifications with MS/MS information. Supporting Information Fig. S2 reports the workflow used during the different phases of the analysis. The peptide fragmentation information, as acquired by the mass spectrometer in MSE as well as MS/MS mode, was matched to the TAIR9 Arabidopsis genome database using the PLGS software package. In total, 52 102 search hits were accumulated from the MSE runs and additional MS/MS runs (Supporting Information Table S1). In this total number large redundancy is present due to the repeated detection of peptides in several samples, the matching of single peptide sequences to multiple (paralogous) proteins and also the presence of derived peptides as a result of in‐source fragmentation during ESI‐MS. Filtering of this redundancy was done at several levels: removing redundancy at the peptide level resulted in a total number of 4127 sequences. From this, 2323 were original sequences and 1804 were sequences derived from in‐source decay. Filtering at a high stringency peptide score equal or higher than six, resulted in 2294 total sequences of which 1051 from original and 1243 from in‐source decay. At the protein level, these peptides were matched to 511 predicted proteins located at 392 gene loci. Of the 392 different gene loci, 204 are known components of the ribosome, see Supporting Information Table S2A and S2B. With on average nine original peptide sequences (17 total including derived sequences) matched per protein, this provides an average sequence coverage of 22.7%. The high number of peptides matched per protein is a typical characteristic of the MSE mode of acquisition. In contrast to classical MS/MS where multiple charged peaks are selected for fragmentation, MSE mode performs a parallel fragmentation of all eluting peptides at the same time. As no precursor selection is performed, more peptides can be identified. Furthermore, in‐source decay and neutral loss fragments of ionized peptides are also detected and matched to a protein sequence. The detection of in‐source decay fragments provides additional confidence for the identification of a particular peptide sequence CITATION, CITATION.  The list of identified proteins can be separated in a set of known ribosomal constituents (204 gene loci) and other proteins (188 loci). A summary on identification numbers is presented in Table 1. For 166 of 204 identified known ribosomal constituents at least two or more proteotypic peptide sequences were matched (including paralogs with identical proteins sequence). These 166 known ribosomal constituents represent 163 r‐proteins and three RACK1 paralogs. The 163 r‐proteins represent 69% of all 237 A. thaliana encoded r‐proteins. The protein coverage for the set of known r‐proteins was higher than the total average being 32% with on average ten original peptide sequences matched per protein (26 peptides including derived sequences as well). In Supporting Information Table S1, also, a histogram and scatterplot presenting the frequency distribution of the false discovery rate (FDR) and the relation to peptide and protein scores is presented. All r‐proteins have been detected with a protein FDR below 0.01%. Proteins with a higher FDR were either ribosome associated or background identified proteins.  One hundred and eighty‐eight non‐r‐proteins were identified in our datasets (Table 1). The protein coverage for the set of non‐r‐proteins was lower than the total average being 11% with on average seven original peptide sequences matched per protein (eight peptides, including derived sequences). The majority of these proteins are nuclear encoded (185 of 188 proteins). Some proteins, like RuBisCo small subunit proteins are highly expressed and can therefore be suspected to be translated by the immunoprecipitated ribosomes. However, at this stage, a functional role of the non‐r‐proteins in ribosomal biogenesis, nuclear export, or translation or the regulation thereof remains to be established.  For quantitative analysis, the LC‐MSE raw data were used, as this acquisition mode provides a maximum coverage of the chromatographic peak shape of all eluting peptide ions, in contrast to MS/MS mode. The LC‐MSE raw data were analyzed using Progenesis LC‐MS software. This analysis pipeline enables label‐free quantitation of all detected peaks, independent of being identified or not. Supporting Information Fig. S2 reports the workflow used during the different phases of the analysis. Progenesis performs interactive peak matching and warping of LC‐MS peak maps before the actual peak detection and quantitation. Peak patterns were aligned starting with circa 10 manual landmarks per LC‐MS run followed by automatic vector detection. Subsequently, LC‐MS patterns were stretched in retention time domain (warped) according to these match vectors and an aggregate peak map was constructed based on all aligned LC‐MS patterns. Then, peak detection was performed on the aggregate image and peak intensity data were collected from each aligned run for all detectable peaks. In total, 5334 peaks were detected with Progenesis. For the majority of these peaks intensity, data were available from all 24 LC‐MS runs. The identification from both MSE and MS/MS acquisition have been used to annotate the quantification features as far as they were identified by either of both methods. In order to link peak intensity information to protein identifications, the database search results of MSE data from PLGS were imported into Progenesis. In addition, MS/MS data from DDA runs were loaded and aligned in Progenesis. For these runs, the MS/MS peak lists were generated in Progenesis and database search was performed with MASCOT and reimported into Progenesis. In summary, from a total of 5334 features, 1122 were identified by MSE and/or MS/MS. As some peptide sequences matched with more than one peak (in cases of multiple charge states), these peaks were combined and the intensity data were summed. This resulted in 752 peptide sequences that were matched to one or more peaks in the quantitation table. For 4212 detected and quantified peaks, no identification was matched. In order to correct for differences in ribosome extraction efficiency and LC‐MS sample loading, a normalization procedure was applied to both the identified as well as unidentified peaks. Prior to normalization, peaks that were identified as keratin or 3X FLAG® Peptide (Sigma) were removed. After summing of identical peak identification intensities, an offset = 1 was added to limit the variation in the low intensity data range and peak intensities were normalized according to the MAD normalization method adapted from Progenesis (Supporting Information Table S1). Figure 1 shows boxplot distributions of the peak intensities per sample prior to and after normalization. The normalization results in a more homogeneous distribution of peak intensities, where the median of distributions is similar in all samples, and the spread in low intensity peaks has been substantially reduced.  [[FIGURE]] To globally depict the intensity variance between the sucrose‐treated and control ribosomal preparations, PCA was performed using all matched peaks (identified as well as nonidentified). In the PCA plot, as displayed in Fig. 2A, 44% of total variance was explained by the first two principal components. The sucrose‐treated (RibS) and control samples (RibO) are clearly separated, mainly on the first component (explaining 26% variance). Furthermore, the replicate runs of each sample and the replicate extracts from each treatment appear to cluster together, indicating that the variance within the replicate extractions and replicate runs is much smaller than the variance between treatments and biological replicates. The PCA plot indicates that the sucrose and nonsucrose‐treated samples are different. In order to optimally differentiate between sucrose and nonsucrose samples a multivariate PLS‐DA analysis was performed to maximally separate both classes CITATION. Twenty‐two of 24 replicates were included in this analysis. One of the samples (RibO1) was removed from the dataset in the final PLS‐DA analysis, because of unexplained outlier behavior. This analysis reports a VIP (95% confidence level) indicating per data point the strength of separating the two classes. The data points with a positive value for (VIP score minus 1.89 × SE) are considered as significant contributions (SIMCA P+, Umetrics) and these are color marked in the loading plot of the PCA in Fig. 2B. Peaks with VIP‐SE scores above 0 are well separated on the first PCA component. The analysis shows a significant change in ribosome composition in response to sucrose. However, the majority of the quantified features are not significantly responsive to sucrose feeding (i.e VIP‐SE score <0, Supporting Information Table S4A). In addition to multivariate statistics, a linear model‐based analysis of the normalized data was performed, with the goal of detecting peptides undergoing significant changes in abundance between sugar‐ and control‐treated leaves. This analysis was performed following the PLS‐DA. The resulting BH corrected p‐values (q‐values) from the LIMMA analysis were transferred to Excel (Supporting Information Fig. S2). The significant correlation between the VIP‐SE score and the log of the q‐value is displayed in Supporting Information Fig. S5.  [[FIGURE]] Focussing on the 1122 features (out of 5334 total) that were identified, we merged the quantitative data to 752 peptide sequences. From these peptides only a subset was unique per r‐protein paralog (see http://www.arabidopsis.org/browse/genefamily/athr.jsp). We classified proteins as differentially present only if they were identified by two unique peptides (confirmed by PatMatch, http://arabidopsis.org/cgi-bin/patmatch/nph-patmatch.pl, TAIR9), intensity changing more than 41% (0.5 on a log2 scale) and indicated significant both by multi‐ and univariate statistics (VIP‐SE score >0, q‐value <0.05). These criteria are reasonably strict and possibly some differential r‐proteins were overlooked. Of the 204 r‐constituents identified in this study, of which 166 with paralogous‐specific peptide sequences, 13 r‐constituents paralogs changed significantly in response to sucrose (Table 2 and Supporting Information Table S4B). These results show that the ribosome composition changes in response to sucrose treatment. Interestingly, for several of the changing r‐protein, paralogs mutants have been reported that show distinct growth phenotypes CITATION, CITATION. Also the protein abundance of RACK1A CITATION, CITATION, a scaffold protein on the 60S ribosomal subunit, increases upon sucrose treatment. Figure 3 shows the resulting changes in r‐protein families RPS3a, RPS7, RPL8, and the RACK1 family, respectively. The fold changes of multiple proteotypic peptides per paralog are more or less similar. However, there are some outliers, for example RPS7C peptide DKNAEPT. This long peptide actually had the lowest absolute peak intensity from the (proteotypic) selected set, resulting in a less accurate a peak quantitation compared to the other peptides. As can be seen in Fig. 3, only the levels of RPS3aA, RPS7C, RPL8C, and RACK1A and not their paralogs are changing in response to sucrose treatment, using our stringent criteria. These data indicate that the incorporation abundance of specific r‐protein paralogs into newly synthesized ribosomes is differentially regulated in response to sucrose.  [[FIGURE]] To understand the mechanism of r‐protein regulation within the ribosome, microarray of the steady‐state mRNA population was performed. Interestingly, most r‐protein genes are upregulated by sucrose treatments on the transcriptional level, except RPL19C, but also for other r‐protein paralogs and RACK1 paralogs an upregulation on steady‐state mRNA levels is observed (Table 2 and Supporting Information Table S5). These results confirm previous publications in which r‐protein regulation in response to sugar availability was reported CITATION, CITATION. The microarray data confirms the real‐time PCR analysis shown in Supporting Information Fig. S4. For the r‐proteins RPL12C, RPL30B, and RPS7C, their increased protein abundance in the immunoprecipitated ribosomes can be explained by higher steady‐state mRNA levels. Their paralogous genes are not upregulated at the steady‐state mRNA level to corresponding levels (Table 2 and Supporting Information Table S5). For the other differential r‐proteins and RACK1A, a similar phenomenon is not observed. This is especially true for RACK1A, RPS8A, and RPL22B for which an increased protein abundance is observed by LC‐MSE while the steady‐state mRNA levels of their paralogs increase more in response to sucrose feeding. For RPS3a and RPL28 family members, the regulation is identical for the paralogous genes at the steady‐state mRNA level while an increased protein abundance of RPL3aA and RPL28A in the immunopurified ribosomal isolates is observed. The differential presence of r‐proteins in the ribosome can thus not simply be explained by differential mRNA steady‐state levels of the corresponding r‐protein or RACK1 genes (Table 2 and Supporting Information Table S5). 
!~MM~! Transgenic 35S:HF‐RPL18 CITATION plants were grown on soil in long day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) under cool white fluorescent light (150 μmol m−2 sec−1) at 22°C, 70% relative humidity. Rosette leaves of 4‐ to 5‐wk‐old plants were harvested from three independent batches of plants (Supporting Information Fig. S1) and incubated for 24 h in a Microclima cabinet (Snijders, Tilburg, The Netherlands) on a rotary shaker (60 rpm) under constant white fluorescent light (100 μE m−2) in liquid 0.5 × Murashige‐Skoog media (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands), pH 5.8 supplemented with 0.5 g/L 1,2‐(N‐morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid with or without the addition of 6% sucrose (w/v). Leaf material was snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, pulverized, and stored at −80°C prior to immunopurification.  Ribosomes were isolated twice from each isolate of transgenic A. thaliana rosette leaves (Supporting Information Fig. S1) according to Zanetti et al. CITATION with minor modifications. Frozen, pulverized leaf tissue was homogenized with two volumes of polysome extraction buffer (PEB). Homogenates were clarified by centrifugation at 16 000 × g for 10 min, and approximately 300 OD600 units of the supernatant were incubated with approximately 200 μL ANTI‐FLAG® M2 Affinity Gel beads (Sigma, St. Louis, MA, USA) at 4°C for 2 h with gentle rotation. The supernatant fraction was recovered, and the beads were rapidly rinsed and then washed for 5 min with 4‐mL PEB per 200‐μL ANTI‐FLAG® M2 Affinity Gel beads, followed by a 5 min wash with 4‐mL wash buffer (100 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.5, 200 mM KCl, 25 mM EGTA, 36 mM MgCl2, 5 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF, 50 μg/mL cycloheximide, 50 μg/mL chloramphenicol and 50 U/mL RNase inhibitor (Fermentas, Leon‐Rot, Germany) per 200‐μL ANTI‐FLAG® M2 Affinity Gel beads. Elution was performed by incubation of the agarose beads with 400 μL of wash buffer containing 200 ng/μL of 3X FLAG® Peptide (Sigma) at 4°C for 30 min. Aliquots of eluted material were stored at −80°C prior to gel analysis or trypsin digestion and MS analysis.  Proteins were separated on 15% (w/v) SDS‐PAGE and stained with Coomassie Blue R250, silver staining plus (Bio‐Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) or subjected to immunoblot analyses. Protein was precipitated using four volumes acetone and the precipitate was dissolved in 2× Laemmli loading buffer. Protein was loaded to 15% SDS‐PAGE and electrophoresed using a Mini‐Protean II system (Bio‐Rad). Proteins were transferred to PVDF Western blotting membranes (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) according to standard procedures CITATION. For immunological detection of FLAG‐His‐RPL18 or cFBPase, membranes were blocked for 1 h in PBST (1 mM Na2HPO4, 0.14 mM KH2PO4, 13.7 mM NaCl, 0.27 mM KCl, and 0.1% [v/v] Tween 20) that contained 3% (w/v) fat‐free milk powder and were incubated for 1 h in PBST containing 3% fat‐free milk powder with a 1:1000 dilution of mouse Monoclonal ANTI‐FLAG® M2 antibody (Sigma) or 1:10 000 dilution of polyclonal anti‐cFBPase (Agrisera, Vännäs, Sweden). Blots were washed three times in PBST and were incubated in PBST that contained 3% (w/v) fat‐free milk powder with a 1:5 000 dilution of bovine antimouse IgG HRP conjugate (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, USA) or 1:8000 dilution of goat antirabbit IgG HRP conjugate (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) for 1 h. Blots were further washed four times in PBST and the antibody‐antigen interaction was detected by adding 100 volumes luminol solution (100 mM Tris‐HCl pH 8.6, 0.025% (w/v) luminol (Sigma) and 0.01% (v/v) H2O2) and one volume enhancer solution (0.11% para‐hydroxycoumaric acid in 10‐mL DMSO) to the blot and exposed to Kodak Biomax films (Sigma).  Affinity purified polysomes (100 μL) were precipitated by addition of eight volumes of cold acetone and incubated at −20°C for at least 1 h. After centrifugation, the pellet was washed with 80% acetone and dried in air. The pellet was resuspended in 50 μL 0.1% (w/v) RapiGest SF Surfactant (Waters, Milford, MA, USA), 5 mM DTT (Sigma) in 0.1 M ammonium bicarbonate and incubated at 60°C for 1 h. Alkylation was performed by incubation with 15 mM iodo‐acetamide (IAA) (GE Healthcare, Waukesha, WI, USA) for 30 min at room temperature (in the dark). Proteolytic digestion (Supporting Information Fig. S1) was initiated by adding 2 μL of modified porcine trypsin (0.02 μg/μL) (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). The sample was subsequently incubated overnight at 37°C, after which the tryptic digestion was terminated by adding TFA (Fluka, Buchs, Germany) to a final concentration of 0.5% (v/v). After centrifugation at 15 000 × g for 10 min the supernatant was cleaned by binding to a SupelCleanTM LC‐18 1‐mL SPE column (Supelco, Bellefonte, PA, USA) equilibrated with 0.1% TFA. The peptides were eluted from this column with 84% ACN (HPLC Supra‐gradient, Biosolve, Valkenswaard, The Netherlands) containing 0.1% formic acid (FA) (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany), dried during vacuum centrifugation, and dissolved in 40 μl 0.1% FA prior to LC‐MS analysis.  For peptide separation, a nanoAcquity UPLC system (Waters, Manchester, UK) was used with a BEH C18 column (75 μm × 25 cm with 1.7 μm particles, Waters, UK) and a 65 min linear gradient from 3 to 40% ACN (in 0.1% FA) at 200 nL/min and the eluting peptides were injected on line into a Synapt Q‐TOF HDMS instrument (Waters). MS analyses were performed in positive mode using electrospray ionization (ESI) with a NanoLockSpray source. As lock mass, [Glu1] fibrinopeptide B (1 pmol/μL) (Sigma) was delivered from a syringe pump (Harvard Apparatus, Holliston, MA, USA) to the reference sprayer of the NanoLockSpray source at a flow rate of 0.2 μL/min and the lock mass channel was sampled every 30 s. Accurate mass LC‐MS data were collected with the instrument operating in either the MS/MS or MSE mode for data‐dependent acquisition (DDA) or data‐independent acquisition (DIA). MSE (DIA) analyses were used for all quantification (24 runs), while DDA MS/MS was used on a few samples to separately confirm peptide identifications. For MSE, data were acquired collecting spectra every 0.6 s with alternating low (6 eV) and elevated (ramp from 15 to 35 eV) energy over a 140–1900 m/z range. DDA was performed by peptide fragmentation on the three most intense multiply charged ions that were detected in the MS survey scan (0.6 s) over a 300–1400 m/z range with an automatically adjusted collision energy based on the observed precursor m/z and charge state, and using a dynamic exclusion window of 60 s.  LC‐MS/MS and MSE data were processed using Proteinlynx Global Server software (PLGS version 2.4, Waters) and per LC‐MS run the resulting list of masses containing all the fragment information was searched against the TAIR9 protein sequence database (TAIR9_pep_20090619 downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, www.arabidopsis.org) as part of the TAIR9 Arabidopsis genome release). The annotation of r‐protein genes in TAIR9 was updated manually based on published data CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION (Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR), http://www.arabidopsis.org; Arabidopsis Transcriptome Genomic Express Database, http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/atta) and recent sequence based data (Hummel et al., manuscript in preparation). For MSE, the search was performed using the following parameters: a minimum of five fragment ions per peptide and a minimum of nine fragment ions per protein, a minimum of one peptide match per protein and a maximum of one missed trypsin cleavage. Furthermore, we used (i) Carbamidomethylation (Cys) as fixed modification; (ii) Deamidation (NQ), Oxidation (M), and acetylation (N‐terminus of the protein) as variable modifications; and (iii) a protein false discovery threshold of 4%. The protein false discovery rate was determined automatically in PLGS by searching the randomized TAIR9 database. For DDA analysis, the peptide tolerance was set to 30 ppm and a fragment tolerance of 0.05 Da. Carbamidomethylation (Cys) was used as a fixed modification and Deamidation (NQ), Dioxidation (M), and Oxidation (M) as variable modifications. The AutoMod option was applied as secondary search to the database search results with a maximum of one missed trypsin cleavage and a nonspecific secondary digest reagent were chosen. Finally, the DDA and MSE outputs of the separate runs were merged in Excel. Protein identification was considered accurate when a protein (paralog) was assigned based on at least two proteotypic peptides. In the DDA analyses, single peptides were only kept if the ladder score was above 50. For MSE analyses, proteins that were certified with one peptide were accepted at a peptide‐score above 6 in addition to filtering at a false discovery rate of 4%, yielding a maximum false discovery rate of 2% after filtering.  For quantitative analyses, the MSE data were processed in Progenesis LC‐MS V2.6 (Nonlinear Dynamics, Newcastle, UK), which transformed the raw high‐resolution profile data with lock‐spray mass‐calibration into a custom mzNLD format and extracted peptide intensity features from MSE data. The LC‐MSE chromatograms of all 24 (all 12 samples were injected twice, Supporting Information Fig. S1) acquired datasets were aligned against a chosen reference run (run O6 MSe1, arbitrarily chosen as the best representative, due to highest resolution and therefore presumed to have the lowest number of missing data points). Retention time alignment by warping allowed the creation of a single aggregate peak map containing all peak data from all samples. After peak detection on the aggregate map, the peak intensities were determined for each detected individual peak per run. The peak intensity data were further normalized using an approach modified from the internal Progenesis approach (see below). Peptide identification results from Proteinlynx database searches of MSE data were imported into Progenesis for linking identified peptides to their corresponding peak features. The generated feature table, with peak intensities and (as far as identified and matched) peptide annotations, was exported and further processed in Excel. For intensity normalization, we first removed the features that matched to the FLAG peptide, keratin, and trypsin. From the remainder, we combined features that mapped to the same peptide sequence (e.g. 2+ and 3+ charged, intensities were summed). Subsequently, an offset of 1 was added to the raw intensities (to limit the variation in the low intensity data range) and thereafter the median absolute deviation (MAD) robustness selection and normalization approach from Progenesis (http://www.nonlinear.com/support/progenesis/lc-ms/faq/how-normalisation-works.aspx) was reproduced in Excel, see Supporting Information Table S3. In short, a normalization factor was calculated based on the average of peak intensity ratios for each run versus the reference, after removing the outliers (i.e. the majority of differential peaks). Before further statistical analyses, the intensity values were transformed to a base‐2 logarithmic value. Supporting Information Fig. S2 reports the workflow used during the different phases of the analysis.  Normalized data were analyzed for univariate statistics using the R language environment for statistical computing (http://www.r-project.org) version 2.11.1 and Bioconductor release 2.6 (http://www.bioconductor.org). Significance of differential expression per peak was analyzed using the LIMMA package CITATION. The obtained p‐values were corrected for multiple testing using the Benjamini‐Hochberg (BH) procedure CITATION, yielding q‐values. Lists of q‐values were transferred to Microsoft Excel™ and sorted/filtered.  Multivariate analysis was performed with SIMCA P+ software (Umetrics, Umeå, Sweden). Logarithmic data were scaled to unit variance before PCA and projection on least squares‐differential analysis (PLS‐DA). This analysis reports a Variable Importance Parameter (VIP) with a 95% confidence level. The VIP score minus 1.8 × standard error (SE) was used as multivariate significance value between SRibS (6% sucrose treated) and RibO (No supplements treated) samples. The RibO1 sample was removed from the dataset in the final PLS‐DA analyses, because of unexplained outlier behavior.  RNA was purified from crude extracts by guanidine‐HCl precipitation followed by cleanup using RNeasy columns (Qiagen, Venlo, The Netherlands) as described by Kawaguchi et al. CITATION. The RNA purity and integrity were confirmed by using Nanodrop1000 spectrometry (Nano‐Drop Technologies, Wilmington, DE, USA) and gel electrophoresis. For real‐time quantitative PCR analysis, genomic DNA was removed using pretreatment of the total RNA with DNase I (Fermentas) and cDNA was synthesized using anchored oligo‐T primers (Biolegio, Nijmegen, The Netherlands) and random hexamers (Fermentas). Complementary DNA was synthesized using M‐MuLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Real‐time PCR was performed using ABIPrism7900HT Sequence Detector using Power Cybergreen chemistry (Applied Biosystems, Rotkreuz, Switzerland). Expression levels were calculated relative to PROTEIN PHOSPHATASE 2A SUBUNIT A3 (PP2AA3, AT1G13320) levels using the Q‐gene method that takes the relative efficiencies of the different primer pairs into account CITATION]. Primers were designed according the recommendations of the PCR master‐mix manufacturer (Applied Biosystems). For microarray analysis, the RNA was analyzed as above and qualitatively assessed and quantified using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer with the RNA 6000 Nano Labchip kit (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA, USA). RNA was processed and cRNA synthesized according to the 3′ IVT Express kit and hybridized on the ATH1 GeneChip (Affymetrix, High Wycombe, UK). Data from the mRNA profiling experiment were analyzed statistically using the R language environment for statistical computing (http://www.r-project.org) version 2.11.1 and Bioconductor release 2.6 (http://www.bioconductor.org). Differentially expressed genes were identified using the LIMMA package CITATION. A posterior residual standard deviation was employed CITATION independently for each treatment and the contrast between control‐ and sucrose‐treated samples was determined (change in response to 6% sucrose compared to the change in response to no sucrose). The obtained p‐values were corrected for multiple testing errors using the BH procedure CITATION, yielding q‐values. Lists of q‐values were transferred to Microsoft Excel™ and sorted. The probe set sequences were aligned to the TAIR9 gene model database of transcripts (Supporting Information Table 5). 
