!~ABS~! Endomembrane proteins (EMPs), belonging to the evolutionarily conserved transmembrane nine superfamily in yeast and mammalian cells, are characterized by the presence of a large lumenal N terminus, nine transmembrane domains, and a short cytoplasmic tail. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains 12 EMP members (EMP1 to EMP12), but little is known about their protein subcellular localization and function. Here, we studied the subcellular localization and targeting mechanism of EMP12 in Arabidopsis and demonstrated that (1) both endogenous EMP12 (detected by EMP12 antibodies) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-EMP12 fusion localized to the Golgi apparatus in transgenic Arabidopsis plants; (2) GFP fusion at the C terminus of EMP12 caused mislocalization of EMP12-GFP to reach post-Golgi compartments and vacuoles for degradation in Arabidopsis cells; (3) the EMP12 cytoplasmic tail contained dual sorting signals (i.e., an endoplasmic reticulum export motif and a Golgi retention signal that interacted with COPII and COPI subunits, respectively); and (4) the Golgi retention motif of EMP12 retained several post-Golgi membrane proteins within the Golgi apparatus in gain-of-function analysis. These sorting signals are highly conserved in all plant EMP isoforms and, thus, likely represent a general mechanism for EMP targeting in plant cells.
!~RES~! All 12 isoforms of Arabidopsis EMP proteins (termed EMP1 to EMP12 in this study; see Supplemental Figure 1 online) share high similarity at the amino acid level and in predicted topology. All At EMPs are predicted to have a large lumenal N-terminal domain, followed by nine TMDs and a short CT (Figure 1A). Eleven At EMP members (excluding EMP1) are predicted to have a signal peptide (SP) in their N terminus. As a first step to understanding the biology of EMPs in plants, we analyzed the subcellular localization and trafficking route of EMP12 in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] We first used a GFP fusion approach by making a GFP-EMP12 construct in which a SP-GFP was used to replace the SP of EMP12 (Figure 1B). To test if this new fusion maintains the identical topology as EMP12, we performed a protease protection assay using microsomes isolated from Arabidopsis cells expressing the GFP-EMP12 fusion, followed by immunoblot analysis using GFP antibody (Figure 1C). The N terminus of GFP-EMP12 was found to be resistant to protease digestion because the 47-kD GFP-TMD1 fragment remained intact in the presence of trypsin, whereas the 75-kD full-length GFP-EMP12 fusion did not (Figure 1C, lanes 1 and 2), indicating the lumenal location of the GFP tag as predicted (Figure 1A). The reliability of such a protease protection assay was further verified by an identical experiment using a GFP fusion of the type I integral membrane protein GFP-VSR2 as a control, in which the lumenal GFP remained intact upon protease digestion (Figure 1C, lanes 4 and 5; CITATION). To study the subcellular localization of EMP12 and GFP-EMP12, we next generated EMP12 antibodies and transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-EMP12 for immunoblot analysis. As shown in Figure 2A, GFP antibody detected a single protein band around 75 kD, likely representing GFP-EMP12 in the cell membrane (CM) fraction but not the cell-soluble (CS) fraction of the transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing GFP-EMP12, whereas no such protein band was detected in wild-type plants. By contrast, anti-EMP12 antibodies detected the putative 50-kD endogenous EMP protein band in the CM fraction of both wild-type and GFP-EMP12 plants (Figure 2A, lanes 6 and 8, asterisk) as well as the GFP-EMP12 fusion (lane 8, arrowhead). A subcellular fractionation study using a continuous sucrose gradient and wild-type Arabidopsis cells showed that anti-EMP12 had an identical distribution pattern as the cis-Golgi marker anti-Man1 (CITATION; CITATION), thus indicating a possible Golgi localization of EMP12 (Figure 2B). To further prove this, confocal immunofluorescence labeling was next performed in root cells of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-EMP12. As shown in Figure 2C, the punctate GFP signals of GFP-EMP12 were fully colocalized with anti-EMP12. In addition, anti-EMP12 was found to fully colocalize with the cis-Golgi marker yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-SYP32 but was largely separated from the PVC marker YFP-ARA7 (CITATION) in these transgenic Arabidopsis root cells (Figure 2C), indicating that both endogenous EMP12 and GFP-EMP12 fusion are localized to the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis cells. Thus, GFP-EMP12 can be used to study the subcellular localization and trafficking of EMP12 in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm the Golgi localization of EMP12 and GFP-EMP12 proteins from the above confocal immunofluorescence study, we next performed immunogold electron microscopy (EM) using either EMP12 or GFP antibodies on ultrathin sections prepared from high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted root tips of wild-type or transgenic GFP-EMP12 Arabidopsis plants. As shown in Figure 3, in wild-type Arabidopsis root cells, anti-EMP12 labeled the Golgi apparatus in which the majority of the gold particles (>80%) were found in the cis- and medial-Golgi (Figure 3A). Similar patterns of Golgi localization were also obtained in GFP-EMP12–transformed Arabidopsis root cells using anti-GFP antibodies (Figure 3B). In addition, Golgi labeling with EMP12 or GFP antibodies was specific, as little labeling was seen in other organelles, including TGN, MVB, and mitochondria in these experiments (Figure 3, Table 1). Taken together, these confocal immunofluorescence and immunogold EM studies demonstrated that EMP12 and GFP-EMP12 localized to the Golgi apparatus with preferential localization to the cis- and medial-Golgi in Arabidopsis cells. [[FIGURE]] We next wanted to test if the established transient expression system of Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION) could be used to study the trafficking of GFP-EMP12. Consistent with the above immunofluorescence and immunogold EM studies in transgenic Arabidopsis root cells (Figures 2 and 3), GFP-EMP12 was found to be fully colocalized with the cis-Golgi marker Man1-mRFP (for monomeric red fluorescent protein; CITATION; CITATION) when they were transiently coexpressed together in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 4A). By contrast, GFP-EMP12 was largely separated from the TGN marker mRFP-SYP61 and the PVC marker mRFP-VSR2 in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figures 4B and 4C). In addition, when the ER-to-Golgi traffic was blocked by overexpression of Sec12p, a Sar1p-specific guanosine nucleotide exchange factor for COPII vesicle formation (CITATION; CITATION), both GFP-EMP12 and Man1-mRFP were trapped and colocalized within the ER (Figure 4D), indicating that GFP-EMP12 reached the Golgi via the COPII-dependent ER-to-Golgi sorting route, a result consistent with the Golgi localization of Man1-mRFP (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Since GFP-EMP12 is fully colocalized with the endogenous EMP12 (as detected by anti-EMP12) to the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis cells (Figure 2) or with the Golgi marker in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 4), we thus used Arabidopsis protoplasts to study the targeting of GFP-EMP12. Since little is known about the Golgi targeting of EMPs with nine TMDs, we first tested whether the large lumenal N terminus or the short cytosolic C terminus are essential for Golgi localization of GFP-EMP12 by generating two truncated constructs, GFP-EMP12(ΔN) and GFP-EMP12(ΔC), in which either the lumenal N terminus or the cytosolic CT was deleted, respectively. As shown in Supplemental Figure 2 online, upon transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts, GFP-EMP12(ΔN) remained in the Golgi as it colocalized with the Golgi marker, indicating that the N terminus of EMP12 was not essential for its Golgi localization. By contrast, CT deletion resulted in ER localization of EMP12 because GFP-EMP12(ΔC) fully colocalized with the ER marker Calnexin-mRFP upon their coexpression, indicating the possible existence of an ER export signal at the CT of EMP12. So far, various ER export signals have been identified at the cytoplasmic part of integral membrane proteins. Best known examples are the diacidic motif DXE within the vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein cytosolic tail, the dihydrophobic motifs (FF, YY, LL, or FY) found in the p24 family proteins, and the Tyro-based signals identified in the tail sequence of ERGIC53/Emp47p family proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Alignment analysis of CTs of Arabidopsis EMPs indicates the existence of a putative dihydrophobic motif and a Tyr residue in all At EMPs (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To find out if the putative dihydrophobic motif and Tyr residue in the EMP12 CT (SNLFVRRIYRNIKCD) are important for the ER export of EMP12, we performed mutagenesis analysis on the dihydrophobic or Tyr motifs of GFP-EMP12 CT (Figure 5A). Mutations of dihydrophobic combined with Tyr motifs totally block the ER export of GFP-EMP12, which was fully colocalized with the ER marker Calnexin-mRFP (Figure 5B). Interestingly, the solo Tyr mutation only partially inhibited the ER export of GFP-EMP12 (Figures 5C and 5D). However, the combined mutations of Tyr with one hydrophobic amino acid, Phe or Val, effectively blocked the ER export of GFP-EMP12 (Figures 6A and 6B), indicating that the dihydrophobic residue synergistically combined with Tyr to drive the ER export of EMP12. This conclusion was further confirmed by double mutation of the dihydrophobic motif, Phe and Val, that only partially blocked the ER export of EMP12 as they colocalized with both Golgi and ER markers (Figures 6C and 6D); however, single mutation on one hydrophobic amino acid, Phe or Val, had no effect on the ER export of EMP12 (Figures 5E and 6E). Mutations of other amino acids besides the dihydrophobic or Tyr residues did not affect the ER export of GFP-EMP12 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Taken together, these results support the conclusion that both the hydrophobic motif and Tyr residue in the cytosolic tail play essential roles in the ER export of EMP12. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Transmembrane cargos usually possess a binding affinity with Sar1–Sec23–Sec24 prebudding complexes through their ER export signals in order to be included in COPII vesicles for ER export (CITATION; CITATION). We next wanted to find out if COPII subunits interact with the ER export motifs in the EMP12 CT using in vitro peptide binding experiments (CITATION). The soluble fractions isolated from Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing YFP-Sec24 were used as a source of COPII subunits (CITATION) for binding with columns conjugated with synthetic peptides of EMP12 CT or its mutation on the dihydrophobic/Tyr residues. As shown in Figure 7, the expressed YFP-Sec24 was retained in the column with the EMP12 CT peptides (lane 3), but such binding was dramatically reduced in the mutated column (lane 4), indicating that the dihydrophobic /Tyr residues of EMP12 CT preferably bound to the COPII Sec24 subunit. [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, when GFP was fused at the C terminus of EMP12 (Figure 8A), the resulting EMP12-GFP was found to localize to both the vacuole and punctate structures distinct from the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP (Figure 8B), but partially colocalized with the TGN marker mRFP-SYP61 and the PVC marker mRFP-VSR2 (Figures 8C and 8D) in Arabidopsis protoplasts, indicating that GFP fusion at the C terminus of EMP12 caused it to move from the Golgi to the vacuole via TGN/PVC. In addition, EMP12-GFP also passed through the ER-Golgi sorting route via the COPII vesicle en route to the vacuole because overexpression of Sec12p trapped it within the ER (Figure 8E), indicating that the C-terminal GFP fusion did not affect the ER-to-Golgi transport but caused mislocalization of EMP12-GFP to post-Golgi compartments, including TGN, PVC, and the vacuole. [[FIGURE]] To further find out if the EMP12 CT is essential for its Golgi retention, we used a gain-of-function approach and added an additional EMP12 CT sequence to the C terminus of EMP12-GFP (Figure 9A). Indeed, the resulting EMP12-GFP-CT was found to remain in the Golgi as it colocalized with the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP but largely separated from the TGN and PVC markers upon their transient coexpression in Arabidopsis protoplasts (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Further mutagenesis (deletion) analysis of the EMP12 CT demonstrated that the last six amino acids RNIKCD (EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD; Figure 9B) or even the last three residues KCD (EMP12-GFP-KCD; see Supplemental Figure 4 online) were sufficient to retain the EMP12-GFP within the Golgi or efficiently retrieve EMP12-GFP back to the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, sequence alignment analysis of the CTs of EMP homologs from Arabidopsis, rice, and maize (Zea mays) showed the presence of a highly conserved Lys in the –3 position and an acidic residue (Asp or Glu) in the –1 position (see Supplemental Figure 1D online). To test if this conserved Lys-based motif KXD/E was essential for Golgi retention, we performed point mutation analysis on this motif via substitution with Ala residues. Double point mutations on Lys and Asp (EMP12-GFP-RNIACA; see Supplemental Figure 5 online) or single mutation on Lys (EMP12-GFP-RNIACD; Figure 9C) or Asp (EMP12-GFP-RNIKCA; Figure 9D) all resulted in mislocalization of these GFP fusions to vacuole and post-Golgi PVC organelles that were largely distinct from the Golgi apparatus (see Supplemental Figures 5A to 5G online). Thus, it seems that both K and D/E in the KXD/E motif are essential for Golgi localization or retention of EMP12. In addition, the KXD/E motif must be presented at the C-terminal end to function as a Golgi retention signal, as the addition of three Ala residues at the C terminus of the Golgi-localized EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD caused its mislocalization to the vacuole and PVC (Figure 9E; see Supplemental Figures 5H and 5I online). The PVC-mediated degradation of these mislocalized EMP12-GFP fusions was further proved by coexpression with a constitutively active Rab5 mutant, ARA7(Q69L), which can induce PVC enlargement and trap the degradative cargo proteins within its lumen (CITATION). Indeed, both EMP12-GFP and EMP12-GFP-RNIKCDAAA occurred as large round dots within the lumen of mRFP-ARA7(Q69L)–labeled ring-like structures, distinct from the punctate patterns of Golgi-localized GFP-EMP12 and EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The detection of GFP signals in the vacuole in cells expressing GFP-tagged transmembrane proteins usually indicates the occurrence of protein degradation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To provide further evidence that these various EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD mutation fusions were degraded in vacuoles upon their expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts (e.g., Figure 9), we performed immunoblot analysis using GFP antibodies. As shown in Figure 10, upon expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts, the Golgi-localized EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD largely (>90%) remained as the full-length protein in the CM fraction, while <10% of the signal was detected as the GFP core (CITATION) in the CS fraction. By contrast, in cells expressing the three other constructs with a mutation on the KXD/E motif (EMP12-GFP-RNIACD and -RNIKCA) or C-terminal addition (–RNIKCDAAA), >50% (50 to 70%) of the detected signals were found as the GFP core in the CS fraction (Figure 8C), indicating that their turnover rate is much higher than that of EMP12-GFP-RNIKCD. Quantification analysis of these GFP signals in the CM versus CS fractions of individual proteins further confirmed this conclusion (Figure 10C). Thus, both confocal data (Figure 9) and immunoblot analysis (Figure 10) point to the same conclusion that the C-terminal KXD/E motif functions as a Golgi retention signal for EMP12. [[FIGURE]] To further explore the molecular mechanism of KXD/E motif function in Golgi retention, we next used the synthetic peptides corresponding to the EMP12 CT as bait to isolate possible interacting proteins from wild-type Arabidopsis proteins in pull-down experiments, followed by protein elution, separation via SDS-PAGE, and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis for protein identification. In duplicate experiments, several proteins that were specifically pulled out by the EMP12 CT peptide column were identified as the COPI coat subunits (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). The COPI vesicles are the predominant means by which the membrane proteins recycle back to the ER or are retained in the Golgi (CITATION; CITATION). We thus further tested whether COPI coatomers could bind with the KXD/E motif using in vitro peptide binding experiments as described previously (CITATION). The soluble fraction isolated from Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing Sec21-Myc, an Arabidopsis γ-COP protein (CITATION), was used as a source of COPI coat protein in the binding experiment using the synthetic peptide of EMP12 CT or its mutants of the KXD/E motif as binding baits. As shown in Figure 11, Sec21-Myc specifically binds to the EMP12 CT as detected by anti-Myc antibody (Figure 11, lane 3), but such binding was completely abolished when the KXD motif in the CT was mutated to either ACA or ACD (Figure 11, lanes 4 and 5), while the binding ability was reduced significantly for the KCA peptide (Figure 11, lane 6), indicating that the Lys in the KXD motif played a more critical role in COPI binding. These binding results are consistent with those obtained with confocal subcellular localization and immunoblot analysis of EMP12-GFP-RNIKCA (Figures 9 and 10). Therefore, binding with the COPI coatomer was a means by which the KXD/E motif achieved the Golgi retention function. [[FIGURE]] To find out if the Golgi retention signal RNIKCD identified in the EMP12 CT would have a similar function in other membrane proteins, we next used a gain-of-function approach by adding this motif to the C terminus of GFP fusions of two selective post-Golgi membrane proteins: SCAMP1-GFP and TPK1-GFP (Figure 12). GFP fusions with the SCAMP1 (SCAMP1-GFP or GFP-SCAMP1), an integral membrane protein with four TMDs, were localized to both the TGN and PM via an ER-Golgi-TGN-PM pathway (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, the original TGN/PM localization of SCAMP1-GFP was altered by the addition of the RNIKCD motif to the C terminus of SCAMP1-GFP because SCAMP1-GFP-RNIKCD was largely colocalized with the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP (Figure 12A, panels 1 and 2) in Arabidopsis protoplasts. A similar result was obtained when the RNIKCD motif was fused to the C terminus of GFP-SCAMP1 because the resulting GFP-SCAMP1-RNIKCD fusion was also found to be trapped in the Golgi, colocalizing with the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP (Figure 12A, panel 3), indicating that the RNIKCD motif showed similar Golgi retention function even without direct fusion with GFP. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis two-pore potassium channel (TPK1) protein is a tonoplast-localized potassium channel with four TMDs and a cytoplasmic N terminus and C terminus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As expected, TPK1-GFP showed a typical tonoplast localization pattern that was distinct from the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 12B). However, when RNIKCD was added to its C terminus, the resulting TPK1-GFP- RNIKCD was found to localize to both Golgi (colocalized with the Golgi marker Man1-mRFP) and tonoplast (Figure 12B), indicating that RNIKCD partially trapped the tonoplast-localized TPK1-GFP within the Golgi. Such dual localization of TPK1-GFP-RNIKCD in the Golgi and tonoplast may be caused by the competition between the KXD/E Golgi retention signal and the tonoplast targeting signals found in TPK1 (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, it will be interesting to investigate the combinational effect of these distinct targeting signals in determining targeting of these proteins. Taken together, the C-terminal addition of RNIKCD caused Golgi retention of two post-Golgi membrane proteins, SCAMP1-GFP and TPK1-GFP, which were originally localized in the TGN/PM and tonoplast, respectively. In addition, since most of these targeting studies were performed using the Arabidopsis protoplast transient expression system, it will be of interest to generate transgenic tobacco Bright Yellow-2 or Arabidopsis cell lines and transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing some of the key fusion constructs (e.g., EMP12-GFP-CT, SCAMP1-GFP-RNIKCD, and TPK1-GFP-RNIKCD) for use in future studies.
!~MM~! The full-length cDNA of EMP12 was amplified and cloned into the pBI121 backbone for construction of the GFP fusion and generation of transgenic plants using floral dip (CITATION). All EMP12 mutant constructs used for transient expression in protoplasts were PCR amplified and cloned into the pBI221 backbone containing the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, GFP coding sequence, and the nopaline synthase terminator (CITATION). The SP sequence for making the SP-GFP-EMP12–linked constructs was derived from barley (Hordeum vulgare) proaleurain (CITATION) or from the native signal sequence of EMP12 based on the SignalP 3.0 Server prediction (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/). The protein topology was predicted using TMHMM Server 2.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/). The primers used to generate various EMP12 constructs are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. All constructs were confirmed by restriction mapping and DNA sequencing. Procedures for generating transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing XFP fusion proteins and maintaining Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells were described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Transient expression using protoplasts derived from Arabidopsis suspension culture cells was essentially performed according to our established protocol (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Fixation and preparation of Arabidopsis roots for immunofluorescent labeling and confocal analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Fixed roots were incubated with anti-EMP12 antibody at 4 μg/mL overnight at 4°C for immunolabeling and were then probed with Alexa 568 goat anti-rabbit IgG (Invitrogen) secondary antibody for confocal observation. Expression of the fluorescent fusion proteins and observation of their subcellular localization in protoplasts were usually performed at 12 to 14 h after transient expression. For each experiment or construct, more than 50 individual cells were observed for confocal imaging that represented >80% of the cells showing similar expression levels and patterns. Images collected from 10 individual cells were used for the data process and analysis. All confocal images were captured using the Olympus FV1000 laser scanning confocal system (http://www.olympusconfocal.com/). The GFP signal was visualized with excitation at 488 nm and emission at 500 to 550 nm (using a band-pass filter). mRFP or Alexa 568 signals were visualized in another detection channel with excitation at 559 nm and emission at 570 to 630 nm (band-pass filter). The line sequential scanning mode was always selected in dual-channel observations to avoid possible crosstalk between two fluorophores. All images were prepared using Adobe Photoshop as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The general procedures for transmission EM sample preparation, thin sectioning, and immunogold labeling were performed essentially as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Root tips of 7-d-old wild-type and transgenic GFP-EMP12 Arabidopsis plants were cut and immediately frozen in a high-pressure freezer (EM PACT2; Leica), followed by subsequent freeze substitution in dry acetone containing 0.1% uranyl acetate at –85°C in an AFS freeze substitution unit (Leica). Infiltration with HM20, embedding, and UV polymerization were performed stepwise at –35°C. Immunogold labeling was performed with GFP or EMP12 antibodies at 40 μg/mL and gold-coupled secondary antibody at a 1:50 dilution. Transmission EM examination was done with a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope with a charge-coupled device camera (Hitachi High-Technologies) operating at 80 kV. Synthetic peptide (GeneScript), CLRNDYAKYAREDDD, corresponding to the cytosolic region between the TMD1 and TMD2 of EMP12 was conjugated with keyhole limpet hemocyanin and used to immunize rabbits at the Laboratory Animal Services Center of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Antibodies were affinity purified using cyanogen bromide-activated Sepharose 4B column (Sigma-Aldrich) conjugated with the peptides. Myc antibody was purchased from Santa Cruz. Alexa 568 goat anti-rabbit IgG was purchased from Invitrogen. For the subcellular fractionation study, microsomal membrane fraction was first isolated from the wild-type Arabidopsis suspension culture cells via fractionation on a 25 to 50% continuous Suc gradient according to the published procedure (CITATION). These fractions were then probed with anti-VSR, anti-Man1, and anti-EMP12 antibodies. To prepare cell extracts from protoplasts, transformed protoplasts were first diluted threefold with 250 mM NaCl and then harvested by centrifugation at 100g for 10 min, followed by resuspension in lysis buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, and 25 μg/mL leupeptin. The protoplasts were further lysed by passing through a 1-mL syringe with needle and then spun at 600g for 3 min to remove intact cells and large cellular debris. The supernatant total cell extracts were then centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min at 4°C; the supernatant and pellet were assigned as soluble and membrane fractions, respectively. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by immunoblotting. Quantification of the relative gray-scale intensity in immunoblot analysis was done with ImageJ software v1.45 according to the procedure (http://lukemiller.org/index.php/2010/11/analyzing-gels-and-western-blots-with-image-j/). In vitro pulldown and peptide binding assay were performed according to previously published procedures (CITATION; CITATION). Synthetic peptides (GeneScript) corresponding to the C-terminal cytosolic tail of EMP12 were coupled, via their N-terminal NH2 group, to cyanogen bromide-activated Sepharose 4B (3 mg peptides per mL of beads) according to the standard procedure. The coupling reaction was quenched by incubation with 1 M Gly, pH 8.0, at room temperature for 2 h. Peptide coupling efficiency was monitored by measuring the absorbance at 280 nm. For the peptide binding assay, the soluble fractions, which were extracted from the wild-type protoplasts, the protoplasts transfected with the COPI coat-Myc fusion (Sec21-Myc), or the COPII coat-GFP fusion (Sec24-GFP), were diluted with 2× lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100, 2 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, and 50 μg/mL leupeptin) and were then incubated with Sepharose beads coupled with the peptides for 4 h at 4°C in a top to end rotator. After incubation, the beads were washed five times with 1× lysis buffer and then eluted by boiling in reducing SDS sample buffer. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and subjected to liquid chromatography-MS/MS analysis or immunoblotting using appropriate antibodies. Sample preparation and MS were performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, the gel was silver stained after SDS-PAGE separation, and the interesting protein bands were cut out for in-gel trypsin digestion. The peptides were extracted from the trypsin-digested gel for MS analysis with a matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight/time of flight tandem mass spectrometer ABI 4700 proteomics analyzer (Applied Biosystems). Mass data acquisitions were piloted by 4000 Series Explorer Software v3.0. The MS and MS/MS data were loaded into the GPS Explorer software v3.5 (Applied Biosystems) and searched against the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database (released on March 5, 2010) with species restriction to Arabidopsis by Mascot search engine v2.1 (Matrix Science). Microsome isolation and protein topology analysis were performed as described with some modifications (CITATION; CITATION). Basically, the protoplasts expressing GFP-EMP12 or GFP-VSR2 were diluted with 250 mM NaCl and harvested by centrifugation. The harvested protoplasts were then lysed in the extraction buffer (40 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM KCl, and 0.4 M Suc) by passing through a 1-mL syringe with a needle several times. After centrifugation at 600g for 3 min to remove intact cells and large cellular debris, the supernatants were further centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min at 4°C. The pellet was assigned as the microsomal-enriched membranes and was resuspended in the extraction buffer to be divided into three parts with equal volume for protease protection assay with three distinct conditions: without trypsin, 100 μg/mL trypsin and 100 μg/mL trypsin with 1% Triton X-100. After incubation at 37°C for 30 min, the samples were pelleted for protein extraction and immunoblot analysis using GFP antibody. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are EMP2 (At5g25100), EMP3 (At2g24170), EMP8 (At1g14670), EMP12 (At1g10950), Sec21 (At4g34450), and Sec24 (At3g07100). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Plant EMP Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. The C Terminus of EMP12 Was Essential for ER Export. Supplemental Figure 3. Subcellular Localization of GFP-EMP12 with Triple Mutations at Its C Terminus. Supplemental Figure 4. Subcellular Localization of EMP12-GFP with the Golgi Retention Motif Fused to the C-Terminal End. Supplemental Figure 5. Subcellular Localization of EMP12-GFP with C-Terminal Fusion of Mutated Golgi Retention Motif. Supplemental Figure 6. EMP12-GFP Reached the Vacuole via the PVC for Degradation. Supplemental Figure 7. EMP12 C Terminus Interacted with COPI Subunits. Supplemental Figure 8. Subcellular Localization of N-Terminal or C-Terminal GFP Fusions with EMP2, EMP3, and EMP8 in Arabidopsis Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 9. Localization Patterns of Singly Expressed Various EMP12 Fusions and Their Mutants in Arabidopsis Protoplasts. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study.
