!~ABS~! ► Comparative phosphoproteomics of Arabidopsis chloroplasts. ► Serine phosphorylation of Lhcb1 is independent of STN7 and STN8 kinases. ► Phosphorylation of Thr-451 in the pTAC16 protein is strictly STN7-dependent. ► pTAC16 is distributed between the thylakoid membrane and chloroplast nucleoid. ► pTAC16 phosphorylated at Thr-451 is excluded from the nucleoid.
!~RES~! To make a comparative phosphoproteomic analysis we isolated chloroplasts from the wild type, stn7 , stn8 and stn7stn8 mutants of Arabidopsis and extracted proteins by acid. The proteins were digested by trypsin, phosphorylated peptides were enriched by TiO 2 chromatography and analyzed using LC–MS. We isolated chloroplasts from leaves harvested during the middle of the day, as well as in the end of the dark phase of the photoperiod. In four biological replicas of the wild type plants we found 27 phosphopeptides ( CITATION ) from 22 chloroplastic proteins listed in CITATION . The largest group of the identified peptides originated from proteins located within the thylakoid membrane (e.g. LHCII proteins, PSII proteins, STN7 etc.), but we also found phosphorylated peripheral thylakoid membrane protein TSP9 CITATION , stroma proteins (Rubisco activase, proteins predicted to be involved in gene regulation, proteins with yet unknown functions) as well as proteins predicted to be located in the envelope (OEP6). The major difference between the samples from the leaves harvested during day and night was in the fact that the N-terminal peptide Ac-RKtVAKPK ( CITATION ) from LHCII proteins was phosphorylated only during the day, while Rubisco activase was found phosphorylated only during the night. All phosphorylated peptides listed in CITATION have been identified from the wild type Arabidopsis leaves in the earlier studies CITATION . However, our comparative phosphoproteomic analysis revealed two previously unknown facts. First, we found that a serine phosphorylation of several LHCII proteins ( CITATION , CITATION A) was not dependent on either STN7 or STN8 ( CITATION C) and it was found from both day and night harvested leaves. Second, phosphorylation of pTAC16 ( CITATION B) was STN7-dependent ( CITATION C). Finding of LHCII phosphorylation that does not depend on either light or the STN7 protein kinase was really surprising. The well described phosphorylation of LHCII at the threonine residues CITATION , see also CITATION , does not occur in darkness or in the absence of STN7. Bioinformatics analysis identifies phosphorylated serine residue in several isoforms of Lhcb proteins ( CITATION ). In the Lhcb1.1–3 proteins this residue is situated at the position 48 of the initial translation product. In the Lhcb1.4 and in the Lhcb1.5 proteins this serine residue correspond to amino acid 47 and 46, respectively. In the mature LHCII proteins this serine residue is located 9–10 amino acid residues downstream from the phosphorylated threonine. Notably, in several experiments we also found alternative phosphorylation of other serine residues in the same peptide, while phosphorylation of Ser-48 ( CITATION A) was predominant. The function of this phosphorylation is unknown, as well as the nature of the responsible protein kinase. At present we can state that the serine phosphorylation of LHCII does not depend on the thylakoid kinases STN7 and STN8, and the sequence around this residue does not correspond to the CK2 phosphorylation motif CITATION . In the mutants lacking STN7 we did not find five phosphorylated proteins: Lhcb1.1–3, STN7, TSP9, Lhcb4.2 and pTAC16 ( CITATION ). STN7-dependent phosphorylation of TSP9 has been known only from in vitro study CITATION , and we provide the evidence for similar in vivo phosphorylation of this protein. STN7-dependent phosphorylation of Lhcb1 and Lhcb4.2 has also been reported CITATION . However, our finding of the pTAC16 protein phosphorylation exclusively in plants expressing STN7 is novel. The sequencing of the pTAC16 peptide ( CITATION B) maps the phosphorylated threonine to position 451 in the initial translation product of this protein. Extensive LC–MS analyses of the samples from the four different genotypes identified pronounced signals corresponding to this phosphorylated peptide only in the wild type and stn8 , but not in stn7 and in stn7stn8 ( CITATION C). The phosphorylated Thr-451 had earlier been found in the large-scale phosphoproteomic analysis of Arabidopsis CITATION , which also identified additional phosphorylated sites in pTAC16. However, phosphorylated Ser-395, Ser-432, Thr-436 and Thr-444 had been detected only in 1 out of 6 biological replicas analyzed in this original study CITATION and we did not detect them in our preparations as well. Bioinformatics analysis of Arabidopsis pTAC16 predicts a 52 kDa protein with a 19 residues-long chloroplast transit peptide ( CITATION A). The N-terminal part of the mature protein contains a Rossmann fold motif ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Structure/cdd/cddsrv.cgi?ascbin=8&maxaln=10&seltype=2&uid=198970&querygi=5541681&aln=3,92,0,44,149,44,35,184,81,26 ), which could be found in many prokaryotic and eukaryotic proteins with nucleotide binding abilities. The C-terminal half of the protein is however specific to plant pTAC16 polypeptides ( CITATION A). This plant-specific domain of pTAC16 also harbors the phosphorylated Thr-451 that is well conserved among different plants ( CITATION B). Comparison of the amino acid sequences containing threonine residues phosphorylated in STN7-dependent manner ( CITATION C) reveals a valine residue present in pTAC16, TSP9, Lhcb1 and Lhcb2. This is the only exact sequence identity found in the vicinity of phosphorylation sites of these four proteins which are not phosphorylated in the stn7 and stn7stn8 mutants. pTAC16 had been found in preparations of transcriptionally active chromosomes CITATION . It also co-migrated with the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) after size exclusion chromatography of megadalton complexes from the chloroplast stroma of Arabidopsis CITATION . However, the study of PEP protein composition did not find pTAC16 as a core PEP subunit CITATION and recent proteomic analyses of maize chloroplasts identified pTAC16 in both nucleoid and membranes of mesophyll chloroplasts and proplastids CITATION . Its distribution pattern was similar to the MFP1 and TCP34 proteins, believed to anchor DNA to the thylakoid membrane, and the authors proposed a similar role for pTAC16 CITATION . To examine the localization of pTAC16 in chloroplasts we generated an antibody specific to this protein. Immunoblotting analysis with this antibody identifies a 52 kDa band in the crude preparation of Arabidopsis chloroplasts. After fractionation of chloroplasts into soluble stroma and initial membrane pellet pTAC16 was found only in the pellet ( CITATION A). Since pTAC16 does not have any predicted transmembrane domains we tried to wash away the protein from the initial membrane fraction using increasing concentrations of NaBr. However, even after the treatment with 2 M NaBr and centrifugation a significant amount of pTAC16 was still found in the membrane fraction ( CITATION B). At the next step we made solubilization of the thylakoid membranes by a detergent Nonidet P-40. This treatment of the initial membrane pellet resulted in complete solubilization of thylakoids, confirmed by Lhcb1-specific antibody ( CITATION C). Nevertheless, 30–40% of pTAC16 was still present in the white pellet, suggesting an interaction of this protein with something else besides the thylakoid membrane ( CITATION C). pTAC16 contains a potential nucleotide-binding domain ( CITATION A), and it was also found associated with transcriptionally active chromosome CITATION . Thus, we decided to treat the initial membrane pellet with DNAse. Treatment with only DNAse was not enough to release pTAC16 from the membrane fraction. However, when DNAse treatment was combined with Nonidet P-40 solubilization we were finally able to release all pTAC16 from the pellet fraction ( CITATION D). The combined set of immunoblotting data, shown in CITATION , suggests distribution of pTAC16 between thylakoid membranes and chloroplast nucleoid. We isolated two Arabidopsis mutant lines with T-DNA insertions in the ptac16 gene. Neither of these lines had visible phenotypic difference from wild type when grown under normal conditions. We also isolated chloroplast nucleoids from the wild type and one of the mutants using the earlier described procedure CITATION . The proteins from these nucleoid preparations were then separated on SDS–PAGE and analyzed by LC–MS after in-gel digestion with trypsin. The nucleoid proteins, including pTAC16, identified in our analysis are indicated in CITATION A. The list of the sequenced peptides from these proteins is presented in CITATION . At the difference from the wild type, nucleoids from the ptac16 mutant did not contain pTAC16. This was the only difference observed from the Coomassie stained gel ( CITATION A), indicating that pTAC16 is not essential for nucleoid formation and composition. Immunoblotting analyses with the pTAC16 specific antibody also confirmed the absence of this protein in the mutant ( CITATION A lower panel). Treatment of the isolated nucleoid from the wild type with DNAse resulted in almost complete removal of both DNA, detected by etidium bromide staining, and pTAC16, detected with immunoblotting, from the final pellet after the second ultracentrifugation ( CITATION B). Our experimental data provide evidence for distribution of pTAC16 between thylakoid membranes and chloroplast nucleoid. In order to investigate the distribution of phosphorylated pTAC16 between these fractions we analyzed phosphoproteome of the nucleoid isolated in the presence of the phosphatase inhibitor NaF. The nucleoid proteins were digested by trypsin, phosphorylated peptides were enriched by TiO 2 chromatography and analyzed using LC–MS. Surprisingly, we did not detected phosphorylated pTAC16 in any of the three biological replicas of isolated nucleoid, while it was detected in all four biological replicas in the phosphoproteomic analysis of the chloroplast proteins extracted by acetic acid ( CITATION ). Spectral counts analysis presented in CITATION C show the absence of phosphorylated pTAC16 in the nucleoid fraction, although pTAC16 was an abundant protein in this sample. In all biological replicas of the nucleoid fraction we found phosphorylated peptides from two nucleoid-associated proteins pTAC10 (AT3G48500) and emb2746 (AT5G63420) ( CITATION ). These proteins were found phosphorylated only in one and two biological replicas of the acetic acid extracts, respectively, indicating lower abundance in these preparations ( CITATION C). On the contrary the phosphorylated peptide GPSGsPWYGSDR from Lhcb1, the marker of the thylakoid membrane, was found exclusively in the acetic acid extracts, like the phosphorylated peptide from pTAC16 ( CITATION C). A recent mapping of nucleoid-associated proteins found that pTAC16 had a similar distribution pattern as the DNA-anchoring protein MFP1 CITATION . The DNA-binding ability of MFP1 is inhibited by phosphorylation of MFP1 by CK2 CITATION . Our finding that phosphorylated pTAC16 is excluded from the nucleoid fraction suggests a possible similar inhibition of pTAC16 binding to DNA upon the STN7-dependent phosphorylation. Isolation of nucleoids from the wild type and stn7 mutant revealed a small but reproducible relative increase in the amount of immunodetected pTAC16 in the stn7 nucleoids ( CITATION D). These results are in line with the data presented in CITATION C, which show that the pTAC16 phosphorylated peptide was not found in the nucleoid of the wild type. Our comparative phosphoproteomic analysis of Arabidopsis chloroplasts from the wild type, stn7 , stn8 and stn7stn8 mutants revealed that phosphorylation of the pTAC16 protein at Thr-451 depends on the presence of the STN7 protein kinase. STN7 is the light-regulated enzyme activated by reducing compounds in thylakoid membranes CITATION and it is also involved in regulation of chloroplast gene expression CITATION . Our data support the earlier suggestion that pTAC16 could anchor DNA to the thylakoid membrane CITATION and we propose that STN7-dependent phosphorylation of pTAC16 may affect the membrane interaction of nucleoid.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type (ecotype Columbia-0) plants and three kinase mutants, stn7 (SALK 073254 CITATION ), stn8 (SALK 060869 CITATION ) and the double mutant stn7stn8 CITATION were grown hydroponically CITATION at 20–22 °C under a 8/16 h light/dark photoperiod at a light intensity of 150 μmol of photons m −2 s −1 . Two mutant lines with T-DNA-inserts in the ptac16 gene (SALK 118227c and SALK 057443c) were received from the Salk Institute collection. Homozygous lines were screened for by PCR analysis using pTAC16 gene specific primers (Left border primer (LP): 5′-GTT TAA CCG GAG AAA ACC GAG and right border primer (RP): 5′-TTT CTC CGG AGA GAA ATC CTC for SALK 118227c. LP: 5′ TAC GAA TTT GGT GGC GTT TAG and RP: 5′- GCT TCT TCC TCT GCT CTT TCC for SALK 057443c) and a T-DNA specific primer (5′-TGG TTC ACG TAG TGG GCC ATC G-3′). The absence of pTAC16 at the protein level was verified by immunoblotting using the pTAC16-specific antibody. Chloroplasts were isolated by grinding of leaves from five weeks old plants in chloroplast preparation medium (330 mM sorbitol, 25 mM Tricine pH 7.8, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM KCl, 4 mM ascorbic acid, 7 mM l -cysteine) and filtered through four layers of cheese cloth. Filtrate was centrifuged 1000 g for 5 min and the pellet was resuspended in three volumes of glacial acetic acid with addition of MgCl 2 to a final concentration of 33 mM, homogenized in a potter grinder and vortexed for 30 min. Sample was centrifuged at 14,000 g for 10 min and the supernatant was pressed through a 1.0 μm glassfiber prefilter. Protein concentration was measured using the Bradford method. Proteins were precipitated by addition of five volumes of acetone and resuspended in 50 mM NH 4 HCO 3 . Proteins were reduced with 4 mM DTT for 60 min at 56 °C and alkylated with 12 mM iodoacetamide for 60 min at room temperature. Protein digestion was performed by the addition of sequencing grade-modified trypsin from Promega (Madison, WI, USA) and incubation at 37 °C for 20 h. Enrichment of phosphorylated peptides was made by TiO 2 affinity chromatography using the Titansphere Phos-TiO Kit (GL Sciences Inc.) according to the manufactures instruction. Analysis of the enriched phosphopeptides was done using a nano-flow HPLC system (EASY-nLC; Bruker Daltonics) with online mass spectrometer HCTultra PTM Discovery System (Bruker Daltonics) using the earlier described setting CITATION . The online tandem MS analyses were made using alternating collision-induced dissociation and electron transfer dissociation fragmentation of peptide ions. Four biological replicas from wild type and stn7stn8 and three from the stn7 and stn8 mutants were subjected to phosphopeptide enrichment and following LC–MS analyses. Peak lists were created from the raw data using Bruker Daltonics DataAnalysis 3.4 (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany) and the resulting MGF files were used to search for proteins in NCBInr ( Arabidopsis thaliana 64929 sequences) using Mascot Server 2.3 ( www.matrixscience.com ). The search parameters allowed mass errors up to 0.5 Da for MS data, and up to 0.5 Da for MS/MS data in case of CID of peptide fragments and 1.2 Da in case of ETD of peptide fragments. Two missed cleavage sites were permitted. N-terminal protein acetylation and serine, threonine or tyrosine phosphorylation were selected as variable modifications. Significance threshold in the MASCOT searches was set at p < 0.01 and “False discovery rates” were below 1%. Phosphorylated peptides were considered reliable if the MS/MS spectra had a MASCOT score above 35 and an expect value below 0.01. Chloroplasts were isolated as above and resuspended in 10 mM Tricine pH 7.8, 5 mM MgCl 2 to lyze the chloroplasts. The soluble stroma was separated from the membrane fraction by centrifugation at 6000 g for 4 min. The membrane fraction was solubilized using 2% Nonidet P-40 (final concentration in the suspension containing 0.5 mg of chlorophyll/mL) for 30 min with stirring. The sample was centrifuged (6000 g ; 4 min), supernatant containing solubilized thylakoids and a white pellet were collected. For treatment of the membrane fraction with DNAse prior to solubilization, the initial pellet containing 50 μg of chlorophyll was resuspended in 100 μL of 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 3 mM CaCl 2 and incubated with 40 U of DNAse for 30 min at room temperature. Chloroplasts were isolated from 2.5 g of Arabidopsis leaves as above but with 330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES KOH pH 8.0, 2 mM EDTA-Na 2 , 5 mM ascorbic acid and 5 mM l -cysteine as chloroplast preparation medium. Nucleoids were then prepared as in CITATION . Isolated chloroplasts were resuspended in nucleoid isolation buffer containing 17% w/v sucrose, 20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 0.5 mM EDTA, 1.2 mM spermidine and 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and stirred with addition of Nonidet P-40 to a final concentration of 2%. After 30 min of incubation, the solution was cleared by centrifugation at 3000 g for 10 min. The supernatant was centrifuged again for 40 min at 48,000 g . The supernatant was removed and the pellet was resuspended in nucleoid isolation buffer with 2% Nonidet P-40 and centrifuged once more at 48,000 g . Final pellet was resuspended in SDS sample buffer and proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. Stained protein bands were excised, in-gel digested with trypsin essentially as described in CITATION and analyzed by LC–MS. For comparison of pTAC16 distribution between the wild type and stn7 mutant, 1 mL of solubilized chloroplasts corresponding to 50 μg of chlorophyll were used for nucleoid isolation by ultracentrifugation to assure equal amounts of initial material. For phosphopeptide detection in nucleoid samples, 10 mM NaF was included in the nucleoid isolation buffer. The nucleoid pellet obtained after the first centrifugation step at 48,000 g was resuspended in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 3 mM CaCl 2 and split in two. One of the samples was incubated with 40 U of DNAse at room temperature for 30 min before addition of nucleoid isolation buffer/Nonidet P-40 and the second centrifugation at 48,000 g . 5% of the final pellets were loaded on an agarose gel to observe the presence of DNA. Isolated proteins were also separated on SDS–PAGE and the presence of pTAC16 in the samples was analyzed by immunoblotting. Immunoblotting was performed as described before CITATION . Polyclonal antibody to pTAC16 was raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 454–467 of the full pTAC16 sequence (Innovagen, Lund, Sweden). The antibodies against Lhcb1 and Rubisco large subunit were purchased from Agrisera (Vännäs, Sweden).
