!~ABS~! Cytokinesis is the process of partitioning the cytoplasm of a dividing cell, thereby completing mitosis. Cytokinesis in the plant cell is achieved by the formation of a new cell wall between daughter nuclei using components carried in Golgi-derived vesicles that accumulate at the midplane of the phragmoplast and fuse to form the cell plate. Proteins that play major roles in the development of the cell plate in plant cells are not well defined. Here, we report that an AP180 amino-terminal homology/epsin amino-terminal homology domain-containing protein from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is involved in clathrin-coated vesicle formation from the cell plate. Arabidopsis Epsin-like Clathrin Adaptor1 (AtECA1; At2g01600) and its homologous proteins AtECA2 and AtECA4 localize to the growing cell plate in cells undergoing cytokinesis and also to the plasma membrane and endosomes in nondividing cells. AtECA1 (At2g01600) does not localize to nascent cell plates but localizes at higher levels to expanding cell plates even after the cell plate fuses with the parental plasma membrane. The temporal and spatial localization patterns of AtECA1 overlap most closely with those of the clathrin light chain. In vitro protein interaction assays revealed that AtECA1 binds to the clathrin H chain via its carboxyl-terminal domain. These results suggest that these AP180 amino-terminal homology/epsin amino-terminal homology domain-containing proteins, AtECA1, AtECA2, and AtECA4, may function as adaptors of clathrin-coated vesicles budding from the cell plate.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes 22 proteins with an A/ENTH domain. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that they can be grouped into five to six subfamilies (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION). To gain insight into the role of these proteins in plant cells, the cellular localization of Arabidopsis A/ENTH domain-containing proteins was determined. Initially, three genes were selected, At2g01600, At1g03050, and At2g25430, named AtECA1, AtECA2, and AtECA4, respectively. These were fused to the N terminus of sGFP for in vivo localization (Fig. 1A). The sGFP fusion constructs AtECA1:sGFP, AtECA2:sGFP, and AtECA4:sGFP were transformed into protoplasts from leaf tissues of Arabidopsis using polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation. H+-ATPase:mRFP (for red fluorescent protein) was cotransformed with the AtECA:sGFP constructs to provide a counterstain for the plasma membrane (CITATION). In the protoplasts, all three sGFP fusion proteins closely overlapped with H+-ATPase:mRFP (Fig. 1B), indicating that AtECAs localize to the plasma membrane. Punctate spots were observed along the cell periphery, but it was not clear whether the spots were at the plasma membrane or in the cytosolic strands compressed between the central vacuole and the plasma membrane. These results contrast with the previous study of AtEpsinR1 and AtEpsinR2, which were clearly associated with cytosolic foci and thought to play roles in vacuolar trafficking pathways (CITATION; CITATION). The current observations of AtECA:sGFP localization suggest that these proteins may be involved in plasma membrane-associated processes. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the plasma membrane localization of these proteins, transgenic plants transformed with the sGFP fusion constructs were generated. The expression of intact sGFP fusion proteins was verified by immunoblot analysis. An anti-GFP antibody detected 96-, 97-, and 100-kD polypeptides that match the expected sizes of AtECA1:sGFP, AtECA2:sGFP, and AtECA4:sGFP, respectively (Fig. 2A). Next, the in vivo localization of GFP proteins in the root tip was examined. GFP fluorescence was observed at the plasma membrane, in endosomes, and in the cytosol in the transgenic root samples, with each reporter displaying different subcellular localization intensities. AtECA1:sGFP associated mostly with the plasma membrane, whereas AtECA4:sGFP was more densely populated at endosomes than at the plasma membrane. AtECA2:sGFP appeared primarily in the cytosol, with a weak signal at the plasma membrane and endosomes. In dividing cells, all these proteins accumulated at the cell plate; AtECA1:sGFP exhibited the strongest fluorescence signal at the cell plate, followed by AtECA4:sGFP and AtECA2:sGFP (Fig. 2D). We thus focused the ensuing investigation on AtECA1. To rule out the possibility that the expression of AtECA:sGFPs driven by the strong cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S or cassava vein mosaic virus (CsVMV) promoter may perturb normal localization, AtECA1:sGFP was also expressed under the control of its native promoter to ensure that its localization pattern was identical to that observed with the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 2Bb). [[FIGURE]] The localization of endogenous AtECA1 was further examined with an anti-AtECA1 antibody raised against recombinant AtECA1 expressed in Escherichia coli (Supplemental Fig. S2B). When root tip tissues of wild-type plants were probed with the anti-AtECA1 antibody, AtECA1-specific fluorescence was observed at cytosolic punctae, the plasma membrane, and the cell plate, which is consistent with the localization pattern of AtECA1:sGFP (Fig. 2E). In transgenic AtECA1:sGFP plants, the anti-AtECA1-positive signals overlapped with GFP signals of AtECA1:sGFP, confirming that overexpressed AtECA1:sGFP and the endogenous AtECA1 have the same localization behaviors. To test whether the AtECA:sGFP-positive cytosolic punctate spots correspond to endosomes, colocalization of AtECA1:sGFP and the lipophilic endocytic tracer FM4-64 was examined. The TGN functions as the early endosome (EE) in plant cells, and FM4-64 labels the TGN within several minutes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Brefeldin A (BFA), a fungal compound known to inhibit Arf-GEF activity, causes an aggregation of endosomes, known as the BFA compartment (CITATION). These properties of EEs were utilized to determine the identity of the AtECA1:sGFP-positive structures. Root tissues of AtECA1:sGFP plants were labeled with FM4-64, and localization was examined after 5 min. AtECA1:sGFP fluorescence overlapped with FM4-64 fluorescence at the endosomes and plasma membrane (Fig. 3A). When root tissues were treated with BFA (50 µm for 20 min), both AtECA1:sGFP and FM4-64-positive compartments were enriched in the BFA compartment (Fig. 3B), indicating that AtECA1:sGFP is associated with the EE. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the identity of the AtECA1:sGFP compartment, the localization of AtECA1:sGFP was compared with the localization of known organelle proteins. The clathrin light chain (CLC) localizes to the TGN/EE and to the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION). SYP43 is another TGN/EE marker protein. Plants expressing AtECA1:sGFP were crossed to plants expressing CLC:mOrange (CITATION) and to plants expressing monomeric RFP-tagged SYP43 (mRFP:SYP43; CITATION), and the subcellular localization of fluorescent proteins was examined. AtECA1:sGFP colocalized well with both TGN/EE markers (Fig. 4, A–F). However, AtECA1:sGFP did not colocalize with γ-COP, a component of COPI vesicles of the Golgi that was detected with an anti-γ-COP antibody (CITATION). Neither did AtECA1:sGFP colocalize with prevacuolar compartment marker proteins, including mCherry:RabF2a/Rha1 (CITATION; CITATION) and AtVSR (detected with an anti-VSR antibody; CITATION; Fig. 4, G–O). These results show that AtECA1 localizes to the TGN/EEs but not to the Golgi apparatus or the prevacuolar compartment. [[FIGURE]] Varying levels of AtECA1:sGFP accumulation on cell plates suggested that the distribution of AtECA1:sGFP changes as the cell plate grows (Fig. 5A), as is the case for other proteins that relocate to the developing cell plate (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the distribution of AtECA1:sGFP in root meristematic cells was monitored in conjunction with DNA visualization using 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole (DAPI), because stages of mitosis and cytokinesis could be differentiated by the varying morphological features of DAPI-stained nuclear DNA. AtECA1:sGFP was primarily localized to the plasma membrane until anaphase, with a minor portion localized to the endosomes. Accumulation of AtECA1:sGFP at the division plane was first observed during early telophase, when the cell plate starts to form, and GFP fluorescence remained associated with the cell plate until the end of cytokinesis (Fig. 5B). However, the fluorescence intensity at the cell plate was reduced in the later stages of cytokinesis, and it appeared to relocate to the plasma membranes of the daughter cells as the cell plate matured (Fig. 5B, g and h). [[FIGURE]] The dynamic colocalization of AtECA1:sGFP and FM4-64 was examined by time-lapse imaging (Fig. 5C). FM4-64 is targeted to young cell plates in plant cells undergoing cytokinesis (CITATION). At 0 min, both FM4-64 and AtECA1:sGFP yielded strong fluorescence at the plasma membrane. At 3 min, FM4-64 was observed as a small line at the center of the cell (Fig. 5C, arrows), indicating that FM4-64 localizes to the nascent cell plate. However, at this time point, AtECA1:sGFP was barely detectable at the cell plate. At 6 min, the growing cell plate had expanded laterally and was labeled by both FM4-64 and AtECA1:sGFP. At subsequent time points, the two fluorescence signals overlapped in the growing cell plate. These results suggest that AtECA1 is involved in the expansion and maturation of the cell plate rather than in the early stage of formation, when Golgi-derived vesicles fuse with each other. To gain further insight into the role of AtECAs in cell plate formation, the localization of AtECA1:sGFP in the cell plate was compared with that of other cell plate proteins. KNOLLE, a cell plate-specific SNARE, is involved in the fusion of TGN-derived vesicles to generate cell plates (CITATION) and thus plays a crucial role in the initiation of cell plate formation. KNOLLE was visualized by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy in root cells expressing AtECA1:sGFP. Both KNOLLE and AtECA1:sGFP localized to the growing cell plate (Fig. 6, A and B), but their spatiotemporal distributions were slightly different. At the early stage of cell plate formation, both AtECA1:sGFP and KNOLLE closely overlapped at the growing cell plate (Fig. 6A). The KNOLLE-specific fluorescence was always more enriched at the periphery of the cell plate than AtECA1:sGFP fluorescence until the cell plate had grown out to the parental plasma membrane (Fig. 6, A and B, b and c, arrows). KNOLLE disappeared rapidly from the cell plate after it had connected with the plasma membrane, whereas AtECA1:sGFP remained in the maturing cell plate (Fig. 6, A and B, e). The differences in spatial localization patterns of AtECA1:sGFP and KNOLLE in relation to the growing cell plate were more clearly visible in a three-dimensional reconstruction of the cell plate (Fig. 6C). [[FIGURE]] Next, the spatiotemporal localization of AtECA1:sGFP was compared with that of DRP1C, a dynamin-related protein known to play a role in membrane tubulation in the forming cell plate (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It has been proposed that dynamin-related proteins are involved in two different steps during cytokinesis, formation of the cell plate and endocytosis from the cell plate (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To localize DRP1C to the forming cell plate, root tissues of AtECA1:sGFP plants were immunostained with an anti-DRP1C antibody. DRP1C localized to the cell plate (Fig. 7A), as observed previously with GFP-tagged DRP1C (CITATION; CITATION). As was the case with KNOLLE, DRP1C and AtECA1:sGFP differed slightly in their temporal and spatial localization patterns. In the forming cell plate, DRP1C appeared earlier than AtECA1:sGFP (Fig. 7). DRP1C began to accumulate in the young cell plate at late anaphase, when AtECA1:sGFP was barely visible (Fig. 7, A and B, a). Soon after this stage, the fluorescence intensity of AtECA1:sGFP at the growing cell plate increased (Fig. 7, A and B, b–e). At subsequent stages in the central region of the growing cell plate, the fluorescence intensity of AtECA1:sGFP remained higher than that of DRP1C until the stage just before the cell plate reached the parental plasma membrane (Fig. 7, A and B, c and d). At the end of cytokinesis, when both ends of the growing cell plate reached the parental plasma membrane, the fluorescence intensity of AtECA1:sGFP was similar to that of DRP1C and their fluorescence intensity in the central region was lower than that at both ends of the cell plate (Fig. 7, A and B, e). Overall, DRP1C and AtECA1:sGFP exhibited similar but not identical spatial distribution along the cell plate, and their temporal distribution was also slightly different. These results suggest that the physiological role of AtECA1 in the biogenesis of the cell plate differs from that of DRP1C. [[FIGURE]] Next, the localization of AtECA1:sGFP in the cell plate was compared with that of CLC. CCVs play a role in endocytosis from the cell plate (CITATION; CITATION). It has been shown that CLC localizes to the cell plate during cytokinesis (CITATION; CITATION). To compare the distribution of AtECA1 and CLC in the cell plate, transgenic lines expressing both AtECA1:sGFP and CLC:mOrange were examined at different time points by time-lapse imaging. At the 0-min time point, when the cell plate was first detected by AtECA1:sGFP fluorescence, CLC:mOrange was not observed at the cell plate, indicating that AtECA1 arrives at the cell plate before CLC. At 5 and 20 min, their spatial localization patterns in relation to the cell plate overlap precisely (Fig. 8). These results suggest that AtECA1 and CLC work together in the cell plate for a certain period of the cell plate formation. [[FIGURE]] The colocalization of AtECA1 and CLC in the growing cell plate suggested that AtECA1 might be involved in CCV formation from the cell plate. To obtain additional evidence, an in vitro protein pull-down assay was performed to demonstrate an interaction between AtECA1 and clathrin. Recombinant AtECA1 was expressed in E. coli as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein (GST:AtECA1) and was purified using the glutathione resin (Supplemental Fig. S4). Purified GST:AtECA1 was incubated with protein extracts from plant leaf tissues. Proteins bound to GST:AtECA1 were precipitated and analyzed by immunoblot analysis using an anti-clathrin H chain (CHC) antibody (CITATION). CHC was detected in the precipitates (Fig. 9A), indicating that AtECA1 interacts with clathrin. As a negative control for the pull-down assay, the precipitates also were analyzed for α-adaptin, a subunit of a heterotetrameric adaptor protein complex-2 for CCVs (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S3B). α-Adaptin was not detected in the precipitates (Fig. 9B), confirming that the interaction between AtECA1 and clathrin is specific. [[FIGURE]] To map the potential clathrin-binding site of AtECA1, the N- and C-terminal domains of AtECA1 (AtECA1N and AtECA1C, respectively) were expressed as GST fusion proteins in E. coli. Purified GST:AtECA1N or GST:AtECA1C was incubated with protein extracts, and proteins precipitated with these recombinant proteins were analyzed. CHC was detected in the precipitates that were captured with GST:AtECA1C but not those captured with GST:AtECA1N (Fig. 9), indicating that the C-terminal domain of AtECA1 contains the clathrin-binding site. This also precludes the possibility that the interaction between AtECA1 and clathrin is a nonspecific process.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in a greenhouse or culture room at 22°C under a 16/8-h light/dark cycle. The transgenic plants were screened on B5 medium containing 2% Suc and antibiotics (20 mg L−1 hygromycin and 30 mg L−1 kanamycin) for 3 weeks after germination and then transferred to soil in a greenhouse to harvest seeds. To prepare protoplasts, Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) plants were cultured on B5 medium containing 2% Suc for 3 weeks. To observe fluorescent proteins from leaf or root tissues, seedlings were vertically grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium without Suc for 5 or 6 d. Transgenic plants expressing CLC:mOrange (CITATION), mCherry:RabF2a (CITATION), and mRFP:SYP43 (CITATION) were crossed with transgenic plant expressing AtECA1p::AtECA1:sGFP for the localization experiments. All cDNAs of AtECAs were amplified by PCR using gene-specific primers (for sequences of primers, see Supplemental Table S1). The PCR products were ligated in-frame to sGFP in the expression vector 326-sGFP-1 (CITATION). To construct GST:AtECA1, AtECA1 was ligated to pGEX-5X-3 digested with SmaI. The N- and C-terminal fragments of AtECA1 (AtECA1N and AtECA1C) were amplified by PCR using primers ECA1-F and ECA1N-R for AtECA1N, and primers ECA1C-F and ECA1C-R for AtECA1C. AtECA1N and AtECA1C encode the first 320 amino acids representing the A/ENTH domain and the rest of the AtECA1 sequence, respectively. To generate the transgenic plant expressing AtECA:sGFP, the AtECA1:sGFP fragment was ligated to a binary vector, pBI121, with the CaMV 35S promoter, and the other AtECA:sGFP fragments were ligated to the pCsV1300 vector with the CsVMV promoter. To express AtECA1:sGFP using the native promoter, the 2-kb promoter fragment (AtECA1p) was amplified by PCR using specific primers ECA1-promoter-F and ECA1-promoter-R, and this was used to replace the 35S promoter in the binary vector, pBI121. Subsequently, AtECA1:sGFP was ligated to the binary vector with AtECA1p to generate pBI-AtECA1p::AtECA1:sGFP. Transgenic plants were generated by the floral dipping method (CITATION). Expression of the transgenes was examined by western-blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody (Clontech). For transient expression analysis, plasmid DNAs were purified using a DNA purification column and transformed into protoplasts derived from 3-week-old Arabidopsis leaf tissues (Col-0; CITATION; CITATION). The primary roots and cotyledons of 6-d-old seedlings were used to perform in vivo imaging and immunohistochemistry as described previously (CITATION). To stain the cell plate with FM4-64, plant root tissues were treated with 12 μm FM4-64 for 1 min. The immunofluorescence samples were prepared as described previously (CITATION). The primary antibodies were anti-AtECA1 (1:500), anti-KNOLLE (1:500), anti-DRP1C (1:1,000), anti-VSR (1:1,000), and anti-γ-COP antibodies. Anti-rat DL549-coupled IgG (1:300; Jackson ImmunoResearch) was used as a secondary antibody for anti-AtECA1 antibody, and anti-rabbit Cy3-coupled IgG (1:300; Jackson ImmunoResearch) was used as the secondary antibody for anti-KNOLLE, anti-DRP1C, anti-VSR, and anti-γ-COP antibodies. To visualize the nucleus, root tips were stained with 10 μm DAPI for 5 min prior to mounting on a slide with Mowiol4-88 (Calbiochem). Images were captured using a Zeiss LSM 510 META laser scanning confocal microscope and processed using the LSM 5 image browser and Adobe Photoshop 7. The combinations of excitation wavelength/emission filter were 488 nm (argon ion laser)/505 to 530 bandpass for GFP and 543 nm/560 to 615 bandpass for mRFP, mOrange, and FM4-64 for mesophyll protoplasts and root tissues. In addition, images were obtained using a cooled CCD camera and a Zeiss Axioplan fluorescence microscope. The filter sets used were XF116 (exciter, 474AF20; dichroic, 500DRLP; emitter, 510AF23) and XF33/E (exciter, 535DF35; dichroic, 570DRLP; emitter, 605DF50 [Omega]) for GFP/fluorescein isothiocyanate and RFP/tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate, respectively. The data were processed using Adobe Photoshop software, and the images were rendered in pseudocolor. GST fusion proteins were purified from Escherichia coli extracts. Proteins bound to beads were incubated with protein extracts from the Col-0 seedlings in protein pull-down buffer [20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 125 mm KOAc, 2.5 mm Mg(OAc)2, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm EGTA, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche)]. The beads were washed three times with the same volume of protein pull-down buffer and then boiled in sample buffer (12 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 5% glycerol, 0.4% SDS, and 2.9 mm β-mercaptoethanol). Proteins were separated using 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gels and analyzed by western blotting using anti-clathrin heavy chain (CITATION), anti-GFP (Bio-Application), or anti-GST (Calbiochem) antibodies. The blots were developed with an ECL kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), and images were obtained using the LAS3000 image-capture system (FujiFilm). GST-fused recombinant proteins GST:AtECA1, GST:AtECA1N, and GST:AtECA1C were expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) for 2 h at 28°C. The harvested cells were resuspended in phosphate-buffered saline buffer (10 mm Na2HPO4, pH 7.5, 137 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 1% Triton X-100, and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and lysed by sonication at 4°C. The debris was removed by centrifugation at 2,400g for 30 min at 4°C, and the supernatants were incubated with 1/100 volume of preequilibrated glutathione agarose resin for 2 h at 4°C. Fusion proteins were washed three times with phosphate-buffered saline buffer. Proteins were eluted with 15 mm reduced glutathione (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0) and quantified by Bradford assay. The construct MBP:α-adaptinC was described previously (CITATION). To construct Hisx6:AtECA1, the full-length cDNA of AtECA1 was ligated to the E. coli expression vector pRSETC. MBP:α-adaptinC and Hisx6:AtECA1 recombinant proteins were affinity purified and used to immunize rabbits and rats, respectively. To confirm the specificity of anti-α-adaptin antibody, western-blot analyses were performed with the anti-α-adaptin antibody using protein extracts from protoplasts transformed with HA:α-adaptin (CITATION). To confirm the specificity of the anti-AtECA1 antibody, protein extracts from transgenic plants of AtECA1:sGFP and ateca1 mutant plants were used in western-blot analyses with anti-GFP (1:1,000 dilution; Clontech), anti-hemagglutinin (1:1,000 dilution; Roche), and anti-actin (1:1,000 dilution; MP Biomedicals) antibodies. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: AtECA1 (At2g01600), AtECA2 (At1g03050), AtECA4 (At2g25430), KNOLLE (At1g08560), DRP1C (At1g14830), CLC (At2g40060), α-adaptin (At5g22770), SYP43 (At3g05710), RabF2a (At4g19640), γ-COP (AtSEC21, At4g34450), AtVSR1 (At3g52850), and H+-ATPase (AHA2; At4g30190). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phylogenetic tree of A/ENTH domain-containing proteins. Supplemental Figure S2. Anti-AtECA1 antibody generation and specificity determination. Supplemental Figure S3. Anti-alpha-adaptin antibody generation and specificity determination. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression of AtECA1 recombinant proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Sequence of primers used in this study.
