!~ABS~! Xyloglucan is the major hemicellulosic polysaccharide in the primary cell walls of most vascular dicotyledonous plants and has important structural and physiological functions in plant growth and development. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the 1,4-β-glucan synthase, Cellulose Synthase-Like C4 (CSLC4), and three xylosyltransferases, XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5, act in the Golgi to form the xylosylated glucan backbone during xyloglucan biosynthesis. However, the functional organization of these enzymes in the Golgi membrane is currently unknown. In this study, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation and in vitro pull-down assays to investigate the supramolecular organization of the CSLC4, XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5 proteins in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Quantification of bimolecular fluorescence complementation fluorescence by flow cytometry allowed us to perform competition assays that demonstrated the high probability of protein-protein complex formation in vivo and revealed differences in the abilities of these proteins to form multiprotein complexes. Results of in vitro pull-down assays using recombinant proteins confirmed that the physical interactions among XXTs occur through their catalytic domains. Additionally, coimmunoprecipitation of XXT2YFP and XXT5HA proteins from Arabidopsis protoplasts indicated that while the formation of the XXT2-XXT2 homocomplex involves disulfide bonds, the formation of the XXT2-XXT5 heterocomplex does not involve covalent interactions. The combined data allow us to propose that the proteins involved in xyloglucan biosynthesis function in a multiprotein complex composed of at least two homocomplexes, CSLC4-CSLC4 and XXT2-XXT2, and three heterocomplexes, XXT2-XXT5, XXT1-XXT2, and XXT5-CSLC4.
!~RES~! To study the in vivo colocalization of glycosyltransferases involved in XyG biosynthesis into putative protein-protein complexes, we conducted BiFC assays using proteins transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). For the assay, we made two constructs for each enzyme (three xyloglucan xylosyltransferases, XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5, and the glucan synthase CSLC4); each enzyme was fused to either the N- or C-terminal fragment of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; N-YFP and C-YFP) in the pSAT vectors (CITATION) to form NC and CC forms, respectively (Fig. 1A). We fused the YFP fragment to the N terminus of the enzyme for all proteins, presuming that the short cytosolic N terminus is less likely to affect YFP reconstitution than the big bulky transferase catalytic domain at the C terminus. [[FIGURE]] BiFC constructs for each pair of xylosyltransferases, XXT1-XXT2, XXT1-XXT5, and XXT2-XXT5, were transiently coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts using the polyethylene glycol (PEG) method (CITATION), and the signal from reconstituted YFP was examined by fluorescence microscopy. All three pairs of XXTs show detectable fluorescence, which forms punctate structures (Fig. 2, A, E, and F). Xylosyltransferases are predicted to localize to the Golgi; to test the localization of the expressed fusion proteins, Golgi were visualized using the marker G-CK (CITATION), which is composed of cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fused with a Golgi membrane signal peptide. The protoplasts were cotransfected with three constructs simultaneously, XXT2NC, XXT5CC, and G-CK, and examined by fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 2B). The merged image (Fig. 2C) confirms colocalization of the punctate YFP signal from the BiFC pair and the CFP signal marking the Golgi. [[FIGURE]] Three different negative controls confirmed that the observed BiFC signals result from specific protein-protein colocalization of glycosyltransferases and not from incidental nonspecific YFP reconstitution. The first negative control was coexpression of two BiFC constructs, where the two YFP complementary fragments were fused to the opposite termini of the two glycosyltransferases: one YFP fragment was fused to the N terminus of XXT2 and the other YFP fragment was fused to the C terminus of XXT5. Another negative control was a transfection of protoplasts with two BiFC constructs, one of which carried an XXT protein fused with one YFP fragment and another construct that carried only the complementary YFP fragment without a fused protein. As a third negative control, we chose an Arabidopsis class I α-mannosidase (MNS1), which is a type II membrane protein with hydrolytic activity and is involved in protein glycosylation in the Golgi (CITATION). MNS1 fused with the YFP fragment was coexpressed with each of the XXT and CSLC4 proteins fused with the complementary YFP fragment. For all negative controls, we did not observe any BiFC signal by fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 2, M–P). The BiFC results confirm that XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5 have the same topology, with their N termini on the same side of the Golgi membrane forming heterocomplexes, and that the YFP complementary fragments fused to the N termini of XXTs do not affect their localization. To confirm whether the fusion proteins used in BiFC assays preserved their functions in vivo, XXT5NC and XXT2CC were constitutively coexpressed in Arabidopsis xxt2 xxt5 double mutant plants. The observed complementation of the mutant root hair phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S4) suggests that XXT5NC and XXT2CC are functional proteins localized in the Golgi. To evaluate the probability of complex formation, BiFC fluorescence intensities of XXT pairs coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts were quantified by flow cytometry (Fig. 3, A and B). The combination of BiFC with flow cytometry provides a straightforward and sensitive estimation of the number of positive events (CITATION). Fluorescence intensity was expressed as total fluorescence, which was calculated as the percentage of fluorescent cells (events) multiplied by the mean fluorescence of each fluorescent cell (CITATION). Both values were measured by flow cytometry, where the number of events is equal to the number of protoplasts in the P3 area (Fig. 3A) and the mean fluorescence is the average fluorescence intensity of these protoplasts. The results presented here are expressed as the fluorescence index, the ratio between the total fluorescence of transfected protoplasts and the total fluorescence of nontransfected protoplasts. Nontransfected protoplasts treated with PEG show a low level of fluorescence that was not visible by fluorescence microscopy but was detectable by flow cytometry (Fig. 3A). Therefore, to account for this background fluorescence, the fluorescence index of nontransfected protoplasts was set to 1.0. Two control experiments were performed to investigate the dependence of the BiFC fluorescence signal on the amount of plasmid used for the transfection and on the duration of protoplast incubation with plasmids (Supplemental Fig. S1, A and B). From these experiments, the optimum conditions, 24 h of incubation with 5 or 10 μg of plasmids, were chosen to ensure close to maximum intensity of fluorescence and to avoid overloading the cells with overexpressed proteins. [[FIGURE]] The results of quantification by flow cytometry demonstrate that the XXT2NC and XXT5CC pair produced the strongest BiFC signal (Fig. 3B), with a fluorescence index of 25.6 ± 1. The fluorescence index for the XXT1CC and XXT2NC pair was 16.8 ± 0.1, but for XXT1 and XXT5, it was significantly lower, 8.4 ± 1.4. The values of fluorescence indices for all negative controls were in the range from 1.5 ± 1.3 to 4.5 ± 1.2, which is close to the index for nontransfected protoplasts (Fig. 3B). It has been proposed (CITATION) that xylosyltransferases can interact with the glucan synthase CSLC4 to xylosylate the glucan backbone during XyG biosynthesis. To investigate this idea, we examined whether XXTs form heterocomplexes with CSLC4 in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The CSLC4NC plasmid was coexpressed with CC constructs for each XXT. The fluorescence of reconstituted YFP was observed by fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 2, G and H) and measured by flow cytometry. The CSLC4-XXT5 pair showed the highest fluorescence index, significantly higher than the indices for the other two pairs, CSLC4-XXT2 and CSLC4-XXT1 (Fig. 4B). This suggests that all XXTs are colocalized in close proximity with CSLC4 and, most likely, that XXT5 occupies the closest position to CLC4 in comparison with the two other XXTs. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether XXTs and CSLC4 can form homocomplexes, Arabidopsis protoplasts were transfected with pairs of BiFC constructs that express the same protein fused with N- and C-terminal YFP complementary fragments: XXT1NC and XXT1CC, XXT2NC and XXT2CC, XXT5NC and XXT5CC, CSLC4NC and CSLC4CC (Fig. 1A). The signal was visualized by fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 2, I–L) and measured by flow cytometry (Fig. 4C). The results show high fluorescence signals for the XXT2NC-XXT2CC and CSLC4NC-CSLC4CC pairs, confirming the high probability of homocomplex formation in transfected protoplasts. In the case of the XXT5NC-XXT5CC pair, fluorescence is lower than with XXT2 and CSLC4, but it is high enough to suggest that XXT5 can also form homocomplexes. In contrast, coexpression of the XXT1NC and XXT1CC constructs does not produce a detectable signal under the fluorescence microscope, and measurement by flow cytometry also shows very low total fluorescence (Fig. 4C), suggesting that XXT1 is unable to form stable homocomplexes. CSLC4 has its N- and C-terminal regions localized in the cytosol (CITATION); therefore, the formation of its homocomplex was tested using one CSLC4 fused with a YFP complementary fragment at the N terminus and another CSLC4 fused with YFP at the C terminus (CSLC4NC and CSLC4CN pair; Fig. 1A). The results show that in the CSLC4 homocomplex, both N- and C-terminal regions are close enough to reconstitute YFP fragments fused to the opposite ends of two proteins (Fig. 4C). To clarify that the differences in fluorescence intensities reflect differences in the probability of forming a protein-protein complex and not differences in fusion protein expression in protoplasts, we tested protein levels by immunoblot analyses with anti-GFP monoclonal antibodies. Immunoblots were used for each combination of expression constructs, and no significant differences were observed in the expression of proteins fused with the N-terminal YFP complementary fragment (Fig. 3C). However, the GFP monoclonal antibody recognizes an epitope that is close to the N terminus of GFP and its derivatives, such as YFP and CFP; therefore, the monoclonal antibody cannot be used for immunodetection of proteins fused with the C terminus of YFP. To overcome this problem, a coexpression plasmid, pPZP2N5C, containing both XXT2NC and XXT5CC expression cassettes was used (Fig. 1C) to minimize potentially unequal transfection efficiencies of separate BiFC plasmids (Fig. 4A). We found no differences in fluorescence indices between protoplasts transfected with 10 μg of the coexpression plasmid and protoplasts transfected with 10 μg of each separate expression plasmid for XXT2NC and XXT5CC (Supplemental Fig. S2). This demonstrates that XXT2NC and XXT5CC are expressed at similar levels when cotransfected either as separate constructs or as a coexpression plasmid, which suggests that in the same protoplast, the expression levels of proteins fused with either the C- or N-terminal YFP complementary fragments are comparable. To confirm that the observed BiFC signals are the result of protein-protein complex formation and not a consequence of incidental nonspecific binding of two YFP complementary fragments, BiFC competition assays were carried out in addition to the negative controls described above. Arabidopsis protoplasts were cotransfected with the pPZP2N5C plasmid harboring BiFC pair XXT2NC and XXT5CC together with different amounts of XXT2HA plasmid (5 and 10 μg of plasmid DNA; Fig. 1A). In all competition experiments described in this work, the expression levels of all coexpressed proteins were monitored by immunoblot analysis to ensure that the competing hemagglutinin(HA)-tagged proteins and the YFP-tagged proteins were present in comparable amounts (Fig. 3C; Supplemental Fig. S3), so that the competing protein does not significantly exceed the amount of proteins fused with YFP fragments. Measurement of fluorescence signals by flow cytometry demonstrated a gradual reduction of the fluorescence index by 55% and 63% compared with the control, as the amount of XXT2HA was increased (Fig. 4A). These results show that XXT2HA can compete with XXT2NC for a position close to XXT5CC, confirming that the origin of the observed BiFC signal is a protein-protein complex and not an incidental YFP reconstitution. The BiFC competition assay was also performed to confirm the protein-protein complexes formed between XXT2NC and XXT1CC. Different amounts of XXT1HA (5 and 10 μg) were coexpressed with the XXT2NC and XXT1CC pair. As for the other interacting pair, there was a gradual reduction of XXT2NC-XXT1CC fluorescence as the amount of coexpressed XXT1HA was increased (Fig. 4A; Supplemental Fig. S3). The same approach was used to further investigate the heterocomplexes among XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5. When XXT1HA was coexpressed with the XXT2NC and XXT5CC BiFC pair, the fluorescence signal did not change, indicating that XXT1HA cannot affect XXT2-XXT5 complex formation (Fig. 4A). Coexpression of XXT2HA with the XXT1CC and XXT5NC BiFC pair significantly depressed the total fluorescence signal (Fig. 4A). Similarly, coexpression of XXT5HA with the XXT1NC and XXT2CC pair decreased the total fluorescence signal, although to a lesser extent than XXT2 depresses the fluorescence of the XXT1-XXT5 pair (Fig. 4A). The results of these two experiments suggest that XXT2 and XXT5 have a stronger preference in close colocalization than XXT1 with XXT5 or even XXT1 with XXT2. The BiFC competition assay was also used to investigate protein complex formation among XXT2, XXT5, and CSLC4. Neither XXT5HA nor XXT1HA coexpressed with the XXT2NC-XXT2CC pair affected its fluorescence, but XXT2HA coexpressed with the XXT5NC-XXT5CC pair decreased its fluorescence intensity (Fig. 4D). Also, the fluorescence of the CSLC4NC-CSLC4CC pair was not affected by coexpression of XXT5HA or by coexpression of XXT2HA (Fig. 4D), but it was depressed by coexpression of CSLC4HA. The latter confirms that the BiFC signal observed for the CSLC4-CSLC4 pair was due to protein-protein homocomplex formation and not due to accidental YFP reconstitution. Similarly, coexpression of CSLC4HA with the CSLC4NC and XXT5CC BiFC pair resulted in decreased fluorescence signal, supporting CSLC4-XXT5 heterocomplex formation (Fig. 4B). To further our investigation of XXT2-XXT5 heterocomplex formation in vivo, the coimmunoprecipitation assay was performed using protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis plants expressing XXT5HA (CITATION) and transfected with the XXT2YFP construct to introduce tagged XXT2 protein. A total protein extract (prepared as described in “Materials and Methods”) was applied to the anti-HA agarose column, and the collected fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE under reducing and nonreducing conditions. The XXT2YFP and XXT5HA proteins were detected by western blot. The results show that both proteins can be detected in the elution fraction (Fig. 5A) and not in the flow through or washes. Under nonreducing conditions, XXT2YFP was detected in the elution fraction as a monomer (approximately 83 kD) and also in a set of larger bands (approximately 166, 250, and 300 kD); by contrast, XXT5HA was detected only in monomeric form (approximately 53 kD) under both reducing and nonreducing conditions. To rule out the possibility of XXT2YFP nonspecifically interacting with anti-HA agarose, XXT2YFP was expressed in protoplasts prepared from wild-type Arabidopsis plants, and extracted proteins were applied to anti-HA agarose. XXT2YFP was detected only in the flow-through and first wash fractions but not in the elution fraction (Fig. 5B), confirming that XXT2YFP was retained on the column because of its interaction with XXT5HA and not because of a nonspecific interaction with anti-HA agarose. The results obtained in reducing and nonreducing conditions suggest that formation of the XXT2-XXT2 homocomplex most likely involves disulfide bonds, but the XXT2-XXT5 heterocomplex is formed through noncovalent interactions. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the formation of protein-protein complexes and investigate possible physical interactions among XXT proteins, in vitro pull-down assays were performed using recombinant proteins expressed in E. coli. To obtain soluble proteins, truncated XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5 mutant proteins, lacking their N termini and transmembrane domains, were fused with HA, His, and Myc tags, respectively (tGTtag; Fig. 1B) and expressed in E. coli (BL21) under the control of an inducible promoter in the pET-15b vector (www.novagen.com). The transmembrane domains of the XXTs were predicted using the program HMMTOP (http://www.enzim.hu/hmmtop), and 45-, 41, and 71-amino acid coding sequences were truncated from the 5′ ends of XXT1, XXT2, and XXT5, respectively. The proteins were designated with a “t” for truncated. The in vitro pull-down assays were performed two different ways: (1) two lysates prepared from cells expressing two different truncated proteins were mixed and then applied to an affinity column; (2) one of the lysates was first applied to the affinity column, and after washing, the second lysate was applied to the same column. After washing, the proteins bound to the column were eluted and examined by immunoblotting with antibodies specific for the tag on each protein. Both assays showed very similar results; therefore, only results from variant 1 are presented here. After lysates from tXXT2His- and tXXT5Myc-expressing cells were applied to a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Ni-NTA) affinity column, both tXXT2His (approximately 50 kD) and tXXT5Myc (approximately 46 kD) were detected in the elution fraction (Fig. 6A). When either tXXT2His or tXXT5Myc alone was applied to the Ni-NTA affinity column, only tXXT2His was detected in the elution fraction (Fig. 6A). Similarly, both tXXT1HA and tXXT2His could be pulled down and detected by both anti-HA and anti-His antibodies when lysates from tXXT1HA- (approximately 48 kD) and tXXT2His-expressing cells were applied to the Ni-NTA column (Fig. 6B). When tXXT1HA was applied to the column alone, it was not detected in the elution fraction. We were unable to pull down tXXT1HA and tXXT5His together; tXXT1HA was detected in the flow-through fraction and not in the elution fraction (Fig. 6C). These results are in agreement with the BiFC results, where very weak fluorescence was observed for the XXT1-XXT5 pair. Next, the ability of XXT2 and XXT5 to form homodimers was confirmed using a mixture of tXXT2His and tXXT2HA and a mixture of tXXT5Myc and tXXT5His, respectively (Fig. 6, D and E). By contrast, a pull-down assay using tXXT1HA and tXXT1His did not show an interaction (Fig. 6F), confirming the BiFC results and demonstrating that XXT1 does not homodimerize. [[FIGURE]] To verify that the observed in vitro interactions among truncated XXTs were specific and not due to nonspecific attraction between soluble truncated proteins, we performed pull-down assays using the native full-length XXT5HA (approximately 53 kD) and tXXT2His proteins. Total protein extract from protoplasts prepared from XXT5HA-expressing plants (CITATION) treated with detergent (as described in “Materials and Methods”) was mixed with lysate from tXXT2His-expressing E. coli. The mixture was applied either to a Ni-NTA affinity column or an anti-HA agarose column. Both XXT5HA and tXXT2His were detected in elution fractions obtained from either Ni-NTA or HA columns (Fig. 6G). Since CSLC4 has six predicted transmembrane domains distributed through its protein sequence, it is not feasible to obtain this protein in soluble form. Therefore, in this study, we were unable to perform pull-down experiments using CSLC4.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia were sterilized in 70% (v/v) NaOCl solution with 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100. Sterilized seeds were germinated, and seedlings were grown for 10 d on plates with one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium under 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod conditions in a growth incubator at 22°C. All genes, XXT1, XXT2, XXT5, and CSLC4, were amplified using gene-specific primers from full-length complementary (cDNA) clones (XXT1 and XXT2 cDNA constructs were obtained from Prof. K. Keegstra). CSLC4 was amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA directly. After PCR amplification, PCR products were inserted into the Gateway entry vector pCR8⁄GW⁄TOPO TA Cloning vector (Invitrogen). Gene-TOPO DNAs were recombined into both destination Gateway pSAT-BiFC vectors, pSAT4-DEST-nEYFP-C1 (N-terminal YFP fragment) and pSAT5-DEST-cEYFP-C1(B) (C-terminal YFP fragment; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center [ABRC]) and into pEarleyGate104 (ABRC). For cloning coexpression plasmids, the expression cassette with the N- or C-terminal YFP fragment was digested with a homing endonuclease, I-SceI or I-CeuI, respectively, and cloned into the pPZP-RCS2-ocs-bar-R1 (ABRC) coexpression binary vector. The N-terminal His-tagged truncated tXXT1 and tXXT2 were prepared by amplification of XXT1 and XXT2 from the corresponding cDNAs and cloning into the pET-15b vector (Novagen) containing an N-terminal 6xHis tag using gene-specific forward and reverse primers containing NdeI and BamHI sites, respectively. The N-terminal HA-tagged truncated tXXT1 was made by removing the N-terminal 6xHis tag sequence from the pET-15b vector and replacing it with the HA-tXXT1 sequence, which was made by amplification from XXT1 cDNA using a gene-specific forward primer containing both the HA sequence (5′-ACTCATGAATGTACGACGTACCAGATTACGCTACGCCGGAGAAAGATATCGAGG-3′) and a BspHI site as well as a gene-specific reverse primer with a BamHI site (5′-ACGGATCCTCACGTCGTCGTCGTACTAAGCT-3′). The N-terminal Myc-tagged truncated tXXT5 was made by amplification from the cDNA using a gene-specific forward primer containing both the Myc tag and an NcoI site (5′-AGCCATGGATGGAACAAAAACTCATCTCAGAAGAGGATCTGAACCTAGGAAGCTCAAGCGCCG-3′) as well as a gene-specific reverse primer containing an NdeI site (5′-ACCATATGCTAGTTCTGTGGTTTGGTTTCCAC-3′). The amplified Myc-tXXT5 PCR fragment was then cloned into pET-15b digested with NcoI and NdeI to generate the plasmid with the Myc-tXXT5 sequence. Forty Arabidopsis seedlings grown on plates for 10 d were harvested and incubated in 5 mL of enzyme solution (0.25% [w/v] Macerozyme, 1.0% Cellulase, 0.4 mm mannitol, 8 mm CaCl2, 5 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.6, and 0.1% bovine serum albumin) for 10 to 12 h in the dark with gentle agitation at 50 rpm. After incubation, suspended protoplasts were filtered through a 100-μm cell strainer, laid onto 10 mL of 21% (w/v) Suc solution, and centrifuged at 300g for 5 min. The supernatant, which contained the protoplasts, was collected and diluted with 10 mL of W5 solution (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl, 5 mm Glc, and 1.5 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.6). Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 300g for 5 min and resuspended in 1 mL of W5 solution. The amount of protoplasts was measured using a hemocytometer (0.1 mm deep). The protocol for protoplast transfection was adapted from CITATION. After protoplast suspensions were counted, protoplasts were pelleted again by centrifugation at 300g for 5 min and resuspended to a density of 2 × 105 mL−1 in a solution of 400 mm mannitol, 15 mm MgCl2, and 5 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.6. Each plasmid (5 or 10 μg) was added into 100 μL of protoplast suspension followed by the addition of 120 μL of PEG solution [30% (w/v) PEG-4000, 400 mm mannitol, and 15 mm Ca(NO3)2]. The transfection mixture was incubated at room temperature for 30 min. After incubation, the transfection mixture was diluted with 4 mL of W5 solution to terminate the transfection process. The transfected protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 300g for 5 min and resuspended in 1 mL of W5 solution. The transfected protoplast suspension was incubated at room temperature for 8 h in the dark and then moved to 4°C for 10 h. The BiFC fluorescence signal was visualized using a fluorescence microscope (DMIRE; Leica) with distinct filter cubes for YFP (filter set: excitation, 485/20; emission, 460/20) and for CFP (filter set: excitation, 436/20; emission, 480/40), and examined with the attached digital camera. Transfected protoplasts expressing fusion proteins (approximately 60,000 per sample) were pelleted by centrifugation at 300g for 5 min and resuspended in 300 μL of protein extraction buffer (40 mm HEPES, 0.45 m Suc, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm KCl, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche], pH 8.0) by vortexing three times for 10 s each. The protein extract was treated with 1% Triton X-100 for 30 min at 4°C to solubilize membrane-bound proteins. After solubilization, proteins were precipitated with 10% (v/v) TCA. Precipitated proteins were resuspended in loading buffer (30 mg mL−1) with or without β-mercaptoethanol for reducing or nonreducing SDS-PAGE, respectively. After SDS-PAGE separation, the proteins were electrophoretically transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (0.2 μm; Bio-Rad) for immunodetection. Monoclonal anti-GFP antibodies (MMS-118P; Covance) were used (1:5,000 dilution) for the detection of YFP. Monoclonal anti-HA antibodies (LT0422; LifeTein) were used (1:500 dilution) to detect HA-fused proteins. Polyclonal His antibodies (sc-803; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) were used (1:10,000 dilution) to detect His-fused proteins, and monoclonal Myc antibodies (MA1-21316; Thermo) were used (1:2,000 dilution) to detect Myc-fused proteins. Membranes were treated with the reagents to detect peroxidase activity and immediately visualized by ChemiDoc XRS+ (Bio-Rad). Prestained size markers were visualized on the same membrane using visible light. Protein concentration was measured using the Bio-Rad kit (Quick Start Bradford Dye reagent 1X; catalog no. 500-0205) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Fluorescence intensities of the BiFC signal in transfected protoplasts were quantified by flow cytometry (FACSCanto; BD Biosciences). Approximately 20,000 to 25,000 protoplasts (counted by hemocytometer) were suspended in 500 μL of W5 solution. The YFP was excited with a laser at 488 nm and captured with a FL1-A sensor (the emission wavelength was 505–554 nm). The fluorescence intensity was calculated as described by CITATION with the following equation: total fluorescence = mean fluorescence level × the percentage of fluorescent events. The fluorescence intensity index was determined as total fluorescence of transfected protoplasts divided by total fluorescence of nontransfected but PEG-treated protoplasts. For each BiFC pair described here, five independent protoplast transfections were performed, and fluorescence was measured two times for each of five transfections. Protoplasts from XXT5HA-expressing or wild-type plants (around 80,000 protoplasts) were transfected with the XXT2YFP construct (10 µg), and protein extraction and solubilization with Triton X-100 were performed as described above. Total protein extract was diluted with extraction buffer to reduce the final concentration of detergent to 0.2%, and the extract was applied to an affinity column with anti-HA-conjugated agarose. After 1.5 h of incubation at 4°C, the anti-HA agarose column was washed with 500 μL of wash buffer (25 mm Tris and 150 mm sodium chloride, pH 7.2) three times and eluted with 200 μL of elution buffer (200 mm Gly, pH 2.8). Collected flow-through, wash, and elution fractions were mixed with loading buffer with and without β-mercaptoethanol for reducing and nonreducing conditions, respectively. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and detected by western blotting as described above. All prepared plasmids with truncated XXT-tagged proteins were transformed into Escherichia coli (BL21) using the heat shock method. Transformed E. coli cells were incubated in 4 mL of lysogeny broth medium at 37°C for 2.5 h at 150 rpm. When the cells reached an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 to 0.6, the culture was moved to 16°C for 1 h with continuous shaking. After the 16°C treatment, cells were induced with 0.5 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside and incubated at 37°C for an additional 3 h. Isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside-induced cells were pelleted and lysed by incubation in lysis buffer (1 mg mL−1 lysozyme, 20 mm HEPES, 100 mm NaCl, 10 μg mL−1 DNaseI, and 5 mm MgCl2, pH 7.0) for 1 h at room temperature followed by five freeze/thaw cycles in liquid nitrogen. Lysate containing soluble proteins including tXXT was separated from the insoluble pellet by centrifugation at 13,000 rpm for 10 min. In vitro pull-down assays were performed using Ni-NTA affinity resin (Thermo Scientific; 88221) or HA agarose (Pierce) following each manufacturer’s instructions. For Ni-NTA, two truncated protein lysates (1 mg of total crude protein) were mixed with 300 μL of equilibration buffer (20 mm sodium phosphate, 300 mm sodium chloride, and 10 mm imidazole, pH 7.4). The mixture was then added to the affinity resin and incubated at 4°C overnight with end-to-end shaking. The column was washed with 600 μL of wash buffer (20 mm sodium phosphate, 300 mm sodium chloride, and 25 mm imidazole, pH 7.4) two times and eluted with 300 μL of elution buffer (20 mm sodium phosphate, 300 mm sodium chloride, and 250 mm imidazole, pH 7.4). All fractions were analyzed by western blotting with tag-specific antibodies. For anti-HA agarose, two truncated protein lysates (1 mg of total crude protein) were mixed with 300 μL of equilibration buffer, applied to the column with anti-HA-conjugated agarose, and then washed and eluted as described above for the coimmunoprecipitation assay. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers 2081625 (XXT1), 2132293 (XXT2), 2019090 (XXT5), and 2089730 (CSLC4). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. BiFC signal dependence on the amount of plasmid DNA and time of incubation. Supplemental Figure S2. BiFC signal intensity for XXT2NC and XXT5CC coexpressed using two approaches. Supplemental Figure S3. Expression level of HA-tagged proteins used in competition BiFC assays. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression of XXT2NC and XXT5CC in the Arabidopsis xxt2 xxt5 double mutant. Supplemental Figure S5. Expression of XXT1, XXT2, XXT5, and CSLC4 in Arabidopsis organs.
