!~ABS~! The conserved Fused kinase plays vital but divergent roles in many organisms from Hedgehog signalling in Drosophila to polarization and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium. Previously we have shown that Arabidopsis Fused kinase termed TWO-IN-ONE (TIO) is essential for cytokinesis in both sporophytic and gametophytic cell types. Here using in vivo imaging of GFP-tagged microtubules in dividing microspores we show that TIO is required for expansion of the phragmoplast. We identify the phragmoplast-associated kinesins, PAKRP1/Kinesin-12A and PAKRP1L/Kinesin-12B, as TIO-interacting proteins and determine TIO-Kinesin-12 interaction domains and their requirement in male gametophytic cytokinesis. Our results support the role of TIO as a functional protein kinase that interacts with Kinesin-12 subfamily members mainly through the C-terminal ARM repeat domain, but with a contribution from the N-terminal kinase domain. The interaction of TIO with Kinesin proteins and the functional requirement of their interaction domains support the operation of a Fused kinase signalling module in phragmoplast expansion that depends upon conserved structural features in diverse Fused kinases.
!~RES~! We reported previously that in tio mutants the callosic cell plate between the vegetative and generative nuclei in dividing microspores fails to expand completely leading to the formation of callosic cell-plate fragments or stubs adjacent to the parental wall (CITATION; Figures 1h and S1c). As cell-plate expansion is facilitated by the expansion of the phragmoplast we investigated whether failure of cell-plate expansion in tio mutants results from altered phragmoplast organization or behaviour. To visualize phragmoplast MTs we crossed +/tio-3, a null T-DNA insertion allele, with a GFP-tubulin marker line (ProUBQ14-GFP-TUA6), which provides an effective tool to visualize MTs throughout male gametogenesis (CITATION; Movie S1). tio-3 mutant plants are fully penetrant heterozygotes and produce an equal proportion of wild type (wt) and mutant microspores in anthers. Although mutant spores fail to transmit the mutation, tio-3 is maintained in heterozygotes through limited (1–3%) female transmission and +/tio-3 plants can be selected based on their BASTA resistance (CITATION). Progeny of +/tio plants homozygous for ProUBQ14-GFP-TUA6 were grown with or without the addition of BASTA to obtain GFP-tubulin marked +/tio-3 and control (wt) plants from the same population. GFP-labelled phragmoplasts in microspores of wt and +/tio-3 plants were scored for the presence of either unexpanded/short or expanded/ring structures (Figure 1a,b). Over 1000 phragmoplasts were counted from multiple individuals (n > 20). [[FIGURE]] Scoring of phragmoplasts in microspores from wild-type plants revealed an overall ratio of 3:1 ring:short structures, whereas microspores from +/tio-3 plants showed a significantly reduced ratio of 1:1 ring:short phragmoplasts (Figure 1c and Table S1). Heterozygous +/tio-3 plants therefore show a much greater proportion of short phragmoplasts, accounting for 47% of the structures observed (Figure 1c), compared with only 25% in wild type. Considering that tio-3 is heterozygous, any fully expanded ring structures are likely to represent the wild-type population of spores. The increased proportion of short phragmoplasts in +/tio-3 plants indicates that tio-3 mutant microspores establish the phragmoplast but these fail to expand and do not form a typical ring structure as in the wild type. Additionally, when the position of short phragmoplasts in wt and +/tio-3 was compared, the majority (98%) of short phragmoplasts in wt microspores were located centrally between the two daughter nuclei (Figure 1d,e), but those observed in tio-3 were often located off-centre, outside the inter-nuclear zone (61%), although still within the vicinity of the daughter nuclei (Figures 1d,f and S1a; Table S2). This situation probably accounts for the incomplete callosic walls, which are observed in mutant tio-3 spores (CITATION), illustrated with aniline blue staining in Figures 1(h) and S1(c). Our observations clearly show that TIO is not required for the initial establishment of the phragmoplast, but has an essential role in the regulated expansion of the phragmoplast and cell plate. To identify TIO-interacting proteins involved in gametophytic cytokinesis, we constructed a yeast-two-hybrid cDNA library from spore preparations enriched for haploid microspores and early bicellular pollen. To take advantage of an unamplified library the screen was performed by co-transforming cDNA prey and the TIO bait vector into yeast strain AH109. A total of approximately 3 × 105 co-transformants were screened with an approximately 3 Kb C-terminal region of TIO (termed BD-CL) encoding the C-terminal 1021 aa region but excluding the N-terminal kinase domain (Figure 2a). Several rounds of selection to isolate strong interactors led to the identification of a partial cDNA clone, AD-12A, encoding the C-terminal 101 aa of At4g14150. Interestingly this gene encodes Kinesin-12A, which is known to play a critical role in phragmoplast organization and cytokinesis at pollen mitosis I (CITATION). Positive interaction was confirmed by retransforming yeast with the isolated AD-12A plasmid and TIO bait vectors encoding different regions of TIO (Figure 2a). BD-TF (TIO full length, 1322 aa), BD-CL (C-terminal 1021 aa) and BD-CS (C-terminal 323 aa) showed strong interactions with AD-12A, whereas two N-terminal kinase domain baits, BD-KIN (296 aa) and BD-N (656 aa), failed to interact, restricting the interacting site to the C-terminal 323 aa of TIO (Figure 2b). [[FIGURE]] As Kinesin-12A and Kinesin-12B are highly homologous and play redundant roles in cytokinesis (CITATION), we also tested interaction between TIO and Kinesin-12B. Two prey vectors were tested, AD-12BS or AD-12BL, encoding either the C-terminal 107 or 217 aa region of Kinesin-12B respectively. Both AD-12BS and AD-12BL interacted with TIO in the same manner as Kinesin-12A with a slight difference in interaction strength (Figure 2c). We further verified interactions in planta using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays. Full-length fragments encoding Kinesin-12A and Kinesin-12B, under the control of the 35S promoter, were fused to either N-terminal (YFPN) or C-terminal (YFPC) fragments of YFP and co-infiltrated into tobacco leaves with CL or CS fragments of TIO (Table S3). Strong YFP fluorescence that reported positive interaction was observed when CL-YFPC was co-infiltrated with either YFPN-Kinesin-12A or YFPN-Kinesin-12B (Figure 2d,e); CS was also capable of interaction with both Kinesin-12A and Kinesin-12B (Figure 2f,g and Table S3). Collectively, these results demonstrate that the C-terminal region of TIO is capable of interaction with the C terminus of both Kinesin-12 subfamily members. The results of the yeast-two-hybrid assays and BiFC tests described above demonstrate that the CS region of TIO is sufficient for interaction with Kinesin-12. This region consists of approximately 100 aa before the ARM repeat region, approximately 180 aa comprising the four ARM repeats and approximately 40 aa beyond. To further dissect the interacting region we generated a new series of constructs (Figure 3). The BD-CS construct was truncated from the C-terminal end to create a series of progressively longer fragments, these were comprised of the region before the ARM repeat region (95 aa, BD-CSARM0), up to the end of the first (141 aa, BD-CSARM1), the second (185 aa, BD-CSARM2), the third (224 aa, BD-CSARM3), and the last (279 aa, BD-CSARM4) of the ARM repeats, and the next 20 aa close to the C terminus (299 aa, BD-CSΔC). None of these constructs was capable of interacting with AD-12A and AD-12B in yeast. Even BD-CSΔC, which lacks only 23 aa from the C terminus compared with BD-CS, completely abolished the strong interaction (Figure 3). This result indicates that interaction of TIO with the Kinesin-12 subfamily is dependent on the presence of four ARM repeats and the extreme C-terminal sequence beyond the repeats. [[FIGURE]] The importance of an intact C terminus was also confirmed with full-length TIO constructs that were C-terminally truncated. BD-TF was modified to include a region up to the end of the last ARM repeat (1279 aa, BD-TFARM4) or the next 20 aa before the C terminus (1299 aa, BD-TFΔC) (Figure 4). These constructs were tested with AD-12A and AD-12B preys and showed no or highly reduced interaction compared with BD-TF. As the last 23 aa, absent in BD-TFΔC, did not contain any significantly conserved motifs, we tested whether it can be substituted with an unrelated sequence. In BD-TFΔC3M (1299 aa + 3 myc), we added 42 aa of triple myc sequence that was also used in microspore-targeted complementation analysis in planta (see below). Interestingly, this construct allowed some yeast growth at lower stringencies when tested with AD-12A and AD-12B (Figure 4), which suggested that protein length after the repeats may be important as well as the amino acid composition. In parallel, an N-terminally truncated TIO bait, BD-Δ50CS (C-terminal 271 aa) lacking approximately 50 aa before the first ARM repeat, showed highly reduced or no interaction with AD-12A or AD-12BS (Figure 4). Taken together, these results show that the entire CS region of TIO is necessary for interaction with Kinesin-12 proteins. [[FIGURE]] It is possible that the structure formed by the putative ARM domains is the key to this interaction and we previously reported homology between the C-terminal domain of TIO and that of Fused kinases from other organisms (CITATION). Recent advances in the availability of genome sequence data allowed us to investigate this homology further. The C-terminal amino acid sequences of 20 Fused kinases, including 18 plant and two protozoan sequences were aligned and submitted to WEBLOGO (CITATION; CITATION). This analysis identified two potentially important highly conserved motifs, the Fax motif (FAIGNAAY in Arabidopsis) and the Nag motif (NAAGSALN in Arabidopsis), that occur in the second and the third ARM repeats respectively. These motifs were also found to be conserved in fungal and vertebrate Fused kinase proteins (Figure S2). We disrupted these motifs within the BD-CS construct; for each motif we made two types of disruption, one with similar chemical composition [Fax target (BD-CSFT), YGGAQGGW; Nag target (BD-CSNT), QGGAGGDQ], and the other with different functional properties [Fax random (BD-CSFR), LTFRDTTH; Nag random (BD-CSNR), DTTRTMCD]. All four modified constructs abolished the interaction with AD-12A and AD-12B in yeast (Figure 3). We also performed BiFC assays in tobacco leaves using CLFT or CLNT co-infiltrated with either KINESIN12A or KINESIN12B and did not observe the strong YFP signals observed with intact CL constructs, further suggesting that these motifs are required for interaction of TIO with Kinesin-12A or Kinesin-12B (Figure 2h,i and Table S3). To explore why the integrity of the C-terminal domain of TIO is so critical for interaction, a structural 3D protein model was predicted using the I-TASSER on-line server (CITATION). This prediction revealed a possible structure for TIO (C value −2.16) that consists of a super-helical structure in which the C-terminal domain forms a pocket (Figure S3a,e and Movie S2). The ARM repeats are integral to this structure, and the last 40 aa (yellow and white) form the completion of this pocket, a finding that suggested a reason for the significance of their conservation, and their requirement for function and interaction with Kinesin-12. In this model the Fax and Nag motifs (green), located in the second (pink) and the third (turquoise) ARM repeats, are positioned next to each other at the base of the pocket (Figure S3) and led us to speculate that together they may form a binding domain for interaction with Kinesin-12 proteins. Similar structures are predicted for rice (C value −1.86), human (C value −1.70) and Tetrahymena (C value −1.66) Fused orthologues (Figure S3b–d). The kinase domain, the most conserved region in all Fused kinase orthologues, includes an invariant putative ATP-binding site (Lys, K35) and a kinase active site (Asp and Asn, D127 and N132). To explore whether TIO kinase activity might also contribute to Kinesin-12 protein interactions we substituted each of these residues with Ala (A35, A127, and A132). As the bait protein that contained a kinase domain alone, BD-KIN, does not interact with the Kinesin-12 preys (Figure 2a–c), substitutions were introduced into the TIO full-length bait BD-TF termed BD-KA and BD-DANA respectively and tested for interaction with AD-12A and AD-12BS (Figure S4). As a result, both BD-KA and BD-DANA showed a significantly reduced interaction compared with BD-TF, a finding that indicated that the invariant active kinase residues also contributes to TIO protein interactions with Kinesin-12A and Kinesin-12B in the context of the native TIO protein. To assess the role of identified TIO domains functionally, we generated a series of constructs corresponding with those used in yeast and BiFC assays and performed a phenotypic complementation assay, scoring the efficiency of rescue of gametophytic cytokinesis in the null allele, +/tio-3 (CITATION). As TIO plays an important role in cytokinesis in both sporophytic and gametophytic cells, we targeted the expression of TIO variants to microspores to avoid potential sporophytic lethal effects. Thus, we used the MSP1 (microspore-promoter 1) sequence to drive transgene expression, enabling the role of different TIO domains in post-meiotic cytokinesis to be tested. Full-length TIO tagged with a 3× myc sequence, ProMSP1-TF-3MYC, fully complemented the +/tio-3 phenotype in T1 lines (Figure 5a), showing a reduction of the mean percentage mutant phenotype to 24% compared with 52% in untransformed +/tio-3 plants. All lines screened (n = 12) showed restoration to the wild-type phenotype, confirming that this assay provides a robust system to assess the in vivo role of TIO domains (Figure 5a). [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether kinase activity may be required for TIO function two constructs harbouring amino acid substitutions at the active kinase sites, equivalent to BD-KA and BD-DANA that were previously tested in yeast (Figure S4), were introduced into +/tio-3 plants. Plants that expressed ProMSP1-KA-3MYC or ProMSP1-DANA-3MYC failed to complement the +/tio-3 mutant phenotype (Figure 5a), which suggested that TIO kinase activity is required for its role in phragmoplast expansion. When C-terminally truncated TIO constructs were assayed, the ProMSP1-TFARM4-3MYC construct was unable to rescue the tio-3 mutant phenotype, showing a mean frequency of 46% aberrant pollen (Figure 5b). This finding suggests that the C-terminal sequence beyond the ARM repeat region is required for TIO function. Consistent with the yeast-two-hybrid results, ProMSP1-TFΔC-3MYC significantly rescued the tio-3 mutant phenotype, but to a lesser extent (32%) than ProMSP1-TF-3MYC (24%), while ProMSP1-TFΔC without the 3-myc tag failed to complement the tio-3 mutant phenotype (Figure 5b), which indicated that the last 23 aa may be substituted, in part, by an unrelated sequence. Substitution mutants in the conserved Fax and Nag motifs shown to be important for TIO interaction with Kinesin-12 subfamily proteins in yeast and in BiFC assays were also tested. None of the four constructs tested was capable of rescuing the tio-3 mutant phenotype (Figure 5c), which suggested that these motifs are critical for TIO function in cytokinesis. Verification of the expression of these constructs in young buds was demonstrated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (Figure S5). This result highlights the importance of the ARM repeat-containing C-terminal region of TIO and suggests that the failure of these constructs to rescue the tio-3 mutant is likely to be due to the failure of the interaction between TIO and Kinesin-12 proteins.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis wild type (Col-0) and +/tio-3 plants were grown under continuous fluorescent lighting at 20–22°C. For complementation analysis all constructs were made based on a vector (proMSP1-NN-3MYC) containing the TIO full-length cDNA clone and the MSP1 promoter as described (CITATION). For detailed information see Appendix S1. For plant transformation, +/tio-3 plants were selected on soil supplemented with 30 μg ml−1 BASTA (glufosinate ammonium, DHAI PROCIDA), and transformed by floral dipping (CITATION). Transformants were double selected with phosphinothricin and kanamycin as described (CITATION) and confirmed by transgene-specific PCR using primers that match TIO and the 3-myc tag (Table S4). Additional information in Appendix S1. Developing pollen was isolated from young buds (approximately 1 mm) containing uninucleate and bicellular stage pollen of Arabidopsis wild type Columbia-0 as described by CITATION and total RNA extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). The yeast-two-hybrid cDNA library was constructed using the Matchmaker 3 library construction and screening kit (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com) with 2 μg of total RNA and pGADT7-rec prey vector. For various bait and prey vector constructions, PCR-amplified fragments were cloned between either NcoI and XmaI or NdeI and XmaI sites in pGBKT7 and pGADT7 (Clontech) using primers listed in Table S4. All constructs were verified by enzyme digestion and sequencing. Yeast strain AH109 was transformed according to the manufacturer’s manual (Clontech) and grown on minimal media plates for 3–5 days at 30°C. For more detailed information see Appendix S1. BiFC constructs were created using Multisite Gateway® Technology (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com), which enabled the fusion of the CaMV35S promoter, YFP fragment and cDNA of interest in different combinations. cDNA was amplified using Phusion DNA polymerase (Finnzymes, http://www.finnzymes.com) with primers containing suitable attachment site (att) adapters and full-length attB sites incorporated into each fragment in a second high fidelity PCR. Fragments were cloned into pDONRP4P1R for the promoter, pDONR207 or pDONR221 for the central fragment, and pDONRP2R-P3 for the C-terminal fragment – all vectors were verified by sequencing. The three fragments were combined in a multipart LR reaction into pK7m34GW, and were used to transform Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101). Infiltration of young tobacco leaves was achieved using methods described previously (CITATION). The two vector strains were combined in infiltration medium, each with an OD of 0.3. After 36–48 h 1 cm2 leaf sections were mounted in water and screened immediately for YFP fluorescence. For scoring of pollen phenotypes in transformed lines, pollen was isolated and stained with DAPI as described in CITATION. Fluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was performed using the methods and equipment described in CITATION. For in vivo imaging of ProUBQ14-GFP-TUA6 lines, buds were dissected in 0.3 m mannitol and microspores imaged immediately. Further details of equipment used for counting of microspore phragmoplasts can be found in Appendix S1. TIO orthologous sequences, including both verified and predicted proteins, were aligned by ClustalW using MacVector and submitted to weblogo (CITATION; CITATION) to identify conserved motifs. For alignment of the C-terminal domain of Fused orthologues (Figure S2), the C terminus of TIO (1100–1322 aa) was submitted to NCBI blast (CITATION) and corresponding regions of selected hits were compiled and submitted to ClustalW2 (CITATION; CITATION). The resulting document was shaded according to those amino acids that matched TIO. The TIO protein sequence and those of other Fused orthologues Oryza sativa Os12g0433500, Homo sapiens serine/threonine 36 and Tetrahymena thermophila (XP_001029696) were submitted to the I-TASSER on-line server for protein structure predictions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The resulting models were colour coded in Swiss Pdbviewer (CITATION) and a movie generated using PyMOL 1.4 (http://www.pymol.org).
