!~ABS~! Xylan is a major component of the plant cell wall and the most abundant noncellulosic component in the secondary cell walls that constitute the largest part of plant biomass. Dicot glucuronoxylan consists of a linear backbone of β(1,4)-linked xylose residues substituted with α(1,2)-linked glucuronic acid (GlcA). Although several genes have been implicated in xylan synthesis through mutant analyses, the biochemical mechanisms responsible for synthesizing xylan are largely unknown. Here, we show evidence for biochemical activity of GUX1 (for GlcA substitution of xylan 1), a member of Glycosyltransferase Family 8 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that is responsible for adding the glucuronosyl substitutions onto the xylan backbone. GUX1 has characteristics typical of Golgi-localized glycosyltransferases and a Km for UDP-GlcA of 165 μm. GUX1 strongly favors xylohexaose as an acceptor over shorter xylooligosaccharides, and with xylohexaose as an acceptor, GlcA is almost exclusively added to the fifth xylose residue from the nonreducing end. We also show that several related proteins, GUX2 to GUX5 and Plant Glycogenin-like Starch Initiation Protein6, are Golgi localized and that only two of these proteins, GUX2 and GUX4, have activity as xylan α-glucuronosyltransferases.
!~RES~! The GUX1 and GUX2 proteins belong to Glycosyltransferase Family 8 (GT8), which is quite diverse but is considered a single glycosyltransferase family according to the CAZy database (www.cazy.org; CITATION). In plants, GT8 contains the GUX clade, Galactinol Synthase (GolS), Galacturonosyltransferase (GAUT), and GAUT-Like (GATL) clades (CITATION). The three GT8 proteins in Arabidopsis that do not belong to these clades have been annotated as PGSIP6, PGSIP7, and PGSIP8 (CITATION). The positions of these proteins in the GT8 family tree are shown in Figure 1A. The predicted topologies of the GUX and PGSIP proteins are shown in Figure 1B. All five GUX proteins are predicted to be type II membrane proteins with a single N-terminal transmembrane domain. In contrast, PGSIP6, PGSIP7, and PGSIP8 have between five and seven predicted transmembrane domains with scores above 0.5, according to the Aramemnon plant membrane protein database (http://aramemnon.uni-koeln.de; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate the biochemical function of GUX1, we transiently overexpressed the fusion protein GUX1-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-hemagglutinin (HA) by infiltration of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying the appropriate construct. We also expressed the Arabidopsis Rhamnogalacturonan Xylosyltransferase2 (RGXT2; CITATION) as a control to ensure that the results of overexpressing GUX1 were not a general effect of overexpressing a Golgi-localized glycosyltransferase. Plants were coinfiltrated with Agrobacterium carrying a construct with the p19 gene from Tomato bushy stunt virus, which encodes a protein that suppresses gene silencing, to ensure that proteins were highly expressed (CITATION). Microsomes were purified from the infiltrated plants and used directly in GlcAT assays with UDP-[14C]GlcA and xylohexaose as substrates, removal of unincorporated radiolabel by paper chromatography, and quantification of the remaining labeled product by scintillation counting. The microsomes from plants expressing the GUX1 fusion protein had a high xylan GlcAT activity compared with the controls (Fig. 2B). To further investigate that this activity was directly associated with GUX1, the GUX1-YFP-HA protein was isolated from microsomes by affinity purification with anti-HA resin prior to activity assays (Fig. 2A). After purification, the activity was much higher, whereas the activity in control purifications was at a background level (Fig. 2B). XylT activity was assayed in the same samples to confirm that the decarboxylation of UDP-[14C]GlcA to UDP-[14C]Xyl and the addition of Xyl to the xylohexaose acceptor did not contribute to the activity. The amount of XylT activity was negligible, consistent with background RGXT2 activity levels (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the radiolabeled product was in fact xylohexaose with an α-linked [14C]GlcA substitution, we digested the product with a specific α-glucuronidase from Bacteroides ovatus (glycoside hydrolase family 115). Product incubated with the α-glucuronidase contained 7 ± 2 (se) dpm of radiolabel (n = 3), while product incubated with buffer alone contained 430 ± 11 dpm (n = 3). This experiment confirmed that the label was α-linked GlcA, since essentially all of the radiolabel was released by treatment with this enzyme. The product was further characterized by liquid chromatography-time of flight-mass spectrometry (LC-TOF-MS) to confirm that the product from a reaction using xylohexaose and unlabeled UDP-GlcA had the expected molecular mass (Fig. 2D). The compound with measured mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) [M+Na]+ = 1,009.28579 corresponds to within 0.19 ppm of the theoretical m/z of the sodium adduct of glucuronoxylohexaose (1,009.28598), and the compounds with m/z [M+Na]+ of 1,010.29088 and 1,011.28884 represent isotopic peaks of this molecule. The compound with monoisotopic mass 1,007.027 is unidentified, but it was also present in control reactions lacking the xylohexaose acceptor (Fig. 2C) or lacking GUX1 protein (Supplemental Fig. S1) and hence is not related to GUX1 activity. The sodium adduct of glucuronoxylohexaose indicated that it eluted from the HPLC column approximately 10 s later than the unidentified compound (Supplemental Fig. S1), but we were unable to completely separate the peaks. However, we are confident that the sodium adduct of glucuronoxylohexaose is a distinct compound that was not present in the control reaction. No evidence of xylohexaose with the addition of more than one GlcA was observed. The product was also characterized by digestion with β-xylosidase, which cleaves Xyl residues from the nonreducing end of the xylooligomer but is unable to cleave GlcA-substituted Xyl residues. Digestion fragments were analyzed by LC-TOF-MS and quantified using available xylooligomers as standards. Approximately 85% of digestion fragments were released as glucuronoxylobiose (Fig. 2E), indicating that the GlcA was positioned on the fifth Xyl from the nonreducing end of the molecule. A smaller amount of glucuronoxylotetraose indicated that the third Xyl from the nonreducing end is also a relatively good acceptor site for GUX1. LC-TOF-MS was also used to characterize products of glucuronosyltransferase reactions using different xylooligomer acceptors. Purified GUX1 supplied with Xyl and xylooligomers from xylobiose to xylohexaose as acceptors was able to transfer GlcA onto xylobiose and larger molecules (Fig. 2D). GUX1 showed a preference for larger acceptors, as the enzyme was most active when xylohexaose was used as the acceptor, and showed less than 10% activity when xylobiose was used as the acceptor. We used purified GUX1-YFP-HA protein to optimize conditions for GlcAT activity and further characterize the enzyme (Fig. 3). GUX1 activity increases with the amount of protein, has a temperature optimum at around 25°C, a pH optimum of 6.5, and requires Mn2+ but not Mg2+. The enzyme is relatively stable, as product increased almost linearly over the first 5 h before it leveled off. The Km value for UDP-GlcA was calculated to be 165 ± 28 μm (n = 2). [[FIGURE]] We investigated the activity of the remaining GUX/PGSIP family proteins by transiently overexpressing them in N. benthamiana. Microsomal fractions from these plants were assayed in the same way as GUX1 (Fig. 4). As expected, plants infiltrated with GUX1 showed a large increase in GlcAT activity compared with plants infiltrated with the p19 construct alone. Overexpression of two other proteins, GUX2 and GUX4, caused an increase in GlcAT activity similar to GUX1. Overexpression of the remaining GUX/PGSIP proteins showed no increase in GlcAT activity over background levels. [[FIGURE]] GUX1 and GUX2 have previously been shown to localize to the Golgi (CITATION; CITATION). We expressed the remaining members of the family in N. benthamiana with the Golgi marker α-mannosidase-mCherry (CITATION). All five GUX proteins and PGSIP6 colocalized with Golgi markers (Fig. 5). None of the GUX proteins or PGSIP6 colocalized with the plasma membrane marker AtPIP2A-mCherry (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Protein sequences obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (www.arabidopsis.org) were aligned using MUSCLE 3.7 (CITATION), and the phylogenetic tree was built using PhyML 3.0 aLRT (CITATION) and viewed using FigTree version 1.3.1 (http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/figtree/). Three- to 4-week old Nicotiana benthamiana ‘Domin’ plants were used for infiltration with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Agrobacterium strain C58-1 pGV3850 carrying the appropriate vectors was grown to log phase, pelleted at 3,500g, and resuspended in 10 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.6, 10 mm MgCl2, and 200 μm acetosyringone before being infiltrated into the abaxial surfaces of leaves. Agrobacteria were resuspended to an optical density at 600 nm of 1.0 for protein purification or an optical density at 600 nm of 0.1 for confocal microscopy. Plants used for protein purification and activity assays were coinfiltrated with a strain carrying a plasmid with the p19 gene from Tomato bushy stunt virus (CITATION). As much of each leaf as possible (approximately 95%) was infiltrated. The expression of genes fused to YFP was verified by monitoring YFP fluorescence with an epifluorescence microscope, and all cells in infiltrated areas were shown to express protein. Entire infiltrated leaves were harvested on day 3 after infiltration. All microsome preparation steps took place at 4°C. Leaf tissue was ground in buffer containing 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 400 mm Suc, 1 mm phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride, 1% (w/v) polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, and protease inhibitors (Roche Complete protease inhibitor tablets). The homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth (EMD Millipore) and centrifuged at 3,000g for 10 min, then the supernatant was centrifuged at 50,000g for 1 h. The pellet was resuspended in 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, and 400 mm Suc. Microsomes were used immediately or frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. No significant loss of activity was detected after freezing. All clones used in this study were constructed using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The entry clones were obtained via BP (attB × attP recombination) reaction in pDONR-Zeo. The genes were cloned using cDNA from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) stems or leaves as template. The reverse primers contained no stop codon to enable C-terminal fusions. Sequences of forward and reverse primers can be provided on request. All entry clones were verified by restriction analysis and sequencing. Gateway expression vectors were constructed via LR (attL × attR recombination) reaction with the corresponding entry clone and the binary vector pEarleyGate101, which contains a 2× 35S promoter and a C-terminal YFP-HA tag (CITATION). All purification steps took place at 4°C. Microsomal proteins were first solubilized by incubating with 1% Triton X-100 for 10 min and subsequently centrifuging at 100,000g for 30 min. The supernatant was incubated with EZview Red anti-HA resin (Sigma-Aldrich) for 3 h, washed three times with 1% Triton X-100, 400 mm Suc, 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, and 200 mm NaCl, and then washed three times with 400 mm Suc and 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0. Resin-bound protein was used directly in GlcAT assays. For immunoblot analysis, proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE on 7% to 15% gradient gels and blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare). Blots were probed with a 1:10,000 dilution of rabbit anti-HA antibody (Sigma-Aldrich), followed by a 1:20,000 dilution of goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Sigma-Aldrich), before applying ECL Plus detection reagent (GE Healthcare). Blots were imaged using a ChemiDoc-It 600 Imaging System (UVP). Xylan glucuronosyltransferase activity in microsomes or purified proteins was determined essentially as described (CITATION) using 3.7 µm UDP-[14C]d-GlcA (740 Bq per reaction; MP Biomedicals), 50 µm unlabeled UDP-d-GlcA, and 400 μm xylohexaose (Megazyme) as acceptor in a 30-µL reaction volume. Products were separated by paper chromatography and analyzed by liquid scintillation counting according to CITATION. Microsomes corresponding to 100 µg of protein were used. The reaction took place at 20°C (except in Fig. 3D), and reaction time was 2 h (except in Fig. 3B). For determining the optimal Mn2+ and Mg2+ concentrations, protein was incubated with 10 mm EDTA in a total volume of 5 μL on ice for 10 min before being added to the 30-μL reaction. For determining the optimal pH, MES buffer was used for pH 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, and 6.5 and HEPES buffer was used for pH 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, and 8.5. For reactions with purified GUX1, an amount of protein corresponding to 100 µg of microsomal protein was used in each assay (except in Fig. 3A). The concentration of the purified protein was too low to be determined. The Km for UDP-GlcA was determined by varying the UDP-GlcA concentration and determining the amount of product made by the purified GUX1 in a 1-h reaction. Xylosyltransferase assays were performed as described (CITATION). After the GlcAT reaction, labeled product was separated from unincorporated UDP-GlcA by spotting the reaction onto Whatman 3M chromatography paper and developing it in 95% ethanol:1.0 m ammonium acetate (2:1, v/v). The origin was cut out, and the product was eluted from the paper in 1 mL of water, dried down, and resuspended in 20 μL of water. α-Glucuronidase (0.5 μg) from Bacteroides ovatus was used to digest the product in 100 mm ammonium acetate, pH 5.5, in a total volume of 50 μL for 1 h at 21°C. Digested product and product incubated with buffer alone were then analyzed by paper chromatography and scintillation counting as above. Purified GUX1 corresponding to 500 µg of microsomal proteins was incubated with 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 6.8, 5 mm MnCl2, 400 μm Xyl6, and 500 µm UDP-GlcA to produce glucuronoxylohexaose. This product was then digested with β-xylosidase (Sigma) in 100 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.0, for 1 h at 70°C. Digested fragments were quantified using LC-TOF-MS. Products from reactions using purified GUX1 both with and without xylohexaose were analyzed. Enzyme reactions were centrifuged in a 3.5-kD dialyzer (Novagen) before analysis. The solvents used were of HPLC grade or better (Honeywell Burdick & Jackson). Chemical standards were purchased from Megazyme and were made up to 20 µm, as the stock solution, in methanol:water (50:50, v/v). The separation of metabolites was conducted on a Fermentation Monitoring HPX-87H column with 8% cross-linkage (150 mm length, 7.8 mm internal diameter, and 9 µm particle size; Bio-Rad) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 Series HPLC system. A sample injection volume of 10 µL was used throughout. The temperature of the sample tray was maintained at 4°C by an Agilent FC/ALS Thermostat. The column compartment was set to 50°C. Metabolites were eluted isocratically with a mobile phase composition of 0.1% formic acid in water. A flow rate of 0.5 mL min−1 was used throughout. The HPLC system was coupled to an Agilent Technologies 6210 TOF mass spectrometer using a one-to-five postcolumn split. Contact between both instruments was established by a local area network card in order to trigger the mass spectrometer into operation upon the initiation of a run cycle from the MassHunter workstation (Agilent Technologies). Nitrogen gas was used as both the nebulizing and drying gases to facilitate the production of gas-phase ions. The drying and nebulizing gases were set to 12 L min−1 and 30 ψ, respectively, and a drying gas temperature of 330°C was used throughout. Electrospray ionization was conducted in the positive ion mode, and a capillary voltage of 3,500 V was utilized. MS experiments were carried out in the full scan mode, at 0.86 spectra s−1, for the detection of [M+Na]+ ions. The instrument was tuned for a range of 50 to 1,700 m/z. Prior to LC-TOF-MS analysis, the TOF mass spectrometer was calibrated via an electrospray ionization low-concentration tuning mix (Agilent Technologies). Data acquisition and processing were performed with the MassHunter software package. Xylooligomer standards ranging from Xyl to xylohexaose were used to estimate the amounts of glucuronoxylooligomers. Abaxial epidermal sections from infiltrated leaves were used for microscopy. A Zeiss LSM 710 confocal microscope equipped with Argon and InTune lasers was used for confocal laser-scanning microscopy. All images were obtained with a 1.30 numerical aperture oil 40× objective. YFP and mCherry channels were imaged by simultaneous scanning using excitation/emission of 514/519 to 560 nm for YFP and 587/600 to 634 nm for mCherry. The Zen software package (Carl Zeiss) was used for image acquisition and processing. The SWISS-MODEL server was used to predict protein structures (CITATION; CITATION). Aligned regions were selected by the SWISS-MODEL server with an E-value cutoff of 10−6, and amino acids 317 to 577 (GUX1), 296 to 555 (GUX2), 281 to 541 (GUX3), 266 to 517 (GUX4), and 274 to 526 (GUX5) were used to make homology models with the glycogenin structure (ILL2; CITATION). Electrostatic outputs for these models were generated using PDB2PQR (CITATION, CITATION), and surface electrostatics were calculated using the Adaptive Poisson-Boltzmann Solver software (CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. LC-MS analysis of the GUX1 reaction product. Supplemental Figure S2. Subcellular localizations of the GUX1 to GUX5 and PGSIP6 proteins.
