!~ABS~! The circadian clock synchronizes biological processes to daily cycles of light and temperature. Clock components, including CIRCADIAN CLOCK-ASSOCIATED1 (CCA1), are also associated with cold acclimation. However, it is unknown how CCA1 activity is modulated in coordinating circadian rhythms and cold acclimation. Here, we report that self-regulation of Arabidopsis thaliana CCA1 activity by a splice variant, CCA1β, links the clock to cold acclimation. CCA1β interferes with the formation of CCA1α-CCA1α and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY)-LHY homodimers, as well as CCA1α-LHY heterodimers, by forming nonfunctional heterodimers with reduced DNA binding affinity. Accordingly, the periods of circadian rhythms were shortened in CCA1β-overexpressing transgenic plants (35S:CCA1β), as observed in the cca1 lhy double mutant. In addition, the elongated hypocotyl and leaf petiole phenotypes of CCA1α-overexpressing transgenic plants (35S:CCA1α) were repressed by CCA1β coexpression. Notably, low temperatures suppressed CCA1 alternative splicing and thus reduced CCA1β production. Consequently, whereas the 35S:CCA1α transgenic plants exhibited enhanced freezing tolerance, the 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants were sensitive to freezing, indicating that cold regulation of CCA1 alternative splicing contributes to freezing tolerance. On the basis of these findings, we propose that dynamic self-regulation of CCA1 underlies the clock regulation of temperature responses in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! A recent genome-wide comparative analysis of transcription factors and alternatively spliced genes in Arabidopsis estimated that ∼340 transcription factor genes are alternatively spliced (CITATION). After comparing the predicted protein domain organizations of the transcription factors and their alternatively spliced isoforms, we chose the CCA1 gene for further analysis. RT-PCR analysis detected two CCA1-specific transcripts (Figures 1A and 1B; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Sequence comparison of the two CCA1 gene transcripts, designated CCA1α and CCA1β, revealed that the CCA1β transcript is produced by retention of the fourth intron (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). A recent in silico analysis of plant genomes has suggested that CCA1 alternative splicing is a conserved molecular event in different plant species and the shorter splice variant encodes a truncated CCA1 form containing the N-terminal MYB motif (CITATION). The above prediction is based on the appearance of stop codon following the MYB-coding sequence region in the CCA1β transcript (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, our sequence analysis of the two CCA1 splice variants and protein domain prediction of the CCA1 isoforms revealed that the smaller isoform, CCA1β, has a dimerization domain like the CCA1α form but lacks the N-terminal MYB motif (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online), which is involved in DNA binding (CITATION; CITATION). The CCA1α and CCA1β sequences and the type of alternative splicing are identical to those predicted in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] On the basis of the domain organizations of the CCA1α and CCA1β proteins, it was hypothesized that they would interact with each other to form homodimers and heterodimers. To examine this hypothesis, yeast two-hybrid assays were employed, and cell growth on selective media lacking Leu, Trp, His, and adenine (−LWHA) and β-galactosidase (β-Gal) activities were measured. The CCA1α and CCA1β proteins formed homodimers as well as CCA1α-CCA1β heterodimers (Figures 2A and 2B). We also examined the CCA1α-CCA1β interactions by in vitro pull-down assays using a recombinant maltose binding protein (MBP)-CCA1α fusion protein and in vitro–translated CCA1α and CCA1β polypeptides. The recombinant MBP-CCA1α protein interacted efficiently with both CCA1α (Figure 2C) and CCA1β polypeptides (Figure 2D). We next examined the CCA1α–CCA1β interactions in vivo by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Split yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-CCA1 fusions were coexpressed transiently in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The fluorescence was detected exclusively in the nucleus in all combinations of coexpression (Figure 2E), indicating that CCA1α-CCA1β heterodimers as well as CCA1α-CCA1α and CCA1β-CCA1β homodimers are formed in the nucleus. Since CCA1α and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY) have partially redundant functions and form heterodimers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we wanted to know whether CCA1β also interacted with LHY. Yeast two-hybrid assays revealed that CCA1β interacted with LHY (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). In addition, BiFC assays showed that the formation of CCA1β-LHY heterodimers occurred in the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 4B online), just like the interaction of CCA1β with CCA1α. [[FIGURE]] The CCA1β isoform is able to interact with the CCA1α transcription factor. However, it does not have the MYB motif that mediates DNA–protein interactions. Therefore, one plausible hypothesis would be that CCA1β attenuates CCA1α activity by forming CCA1α-CCA1β heterodimers. To examine this hypothesis, we produced transgenic plants that overexpress either CCA1α or CCA1β cDNA under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. We also obtained a CCA1-deficient mutant in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) background (Figure 3A), which was designated cca1-2 to distinguish it from the previously characterized cca1-1 mutant in the Wassilewskija-2 background (CITATION). The cca1-2 mutant did not exhibit any visible phenotypes (Figure 3B), as has been observed in the cca1-1 mutant. The 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants were also phenotypically indistinguishable from Col-0 plants. By contrast, the CCA1α-overexpressing transgenic plants (35S:CCA1α) had elongated hypocotyls and leaf petioles at the seedling stage, as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Next, we crossed the 35S:CCA1α transgenic plants with the 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants, resulting in 35S:CCA1α × 35S:CCA1β plants. Interestingly, the phenotypes of the 35S:CCA1α transgenic plants, such as long hypocotyls and leaf petioles, were repressed by CCA1β coexpression (Figure 3B). Moreover, the late flowering phenotype of the 35S:CCA1α transgenic plants was also suppressed in the 35S:CCA1α × 35S:CCA1β plants (Figure 3C). In addition, we detected no cosuppression in the CCA1α- and CCA1β-overexpressing plants (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). These observations indicate that the CCA1β isoform negatively regulates CCA1α activity possibly by competitively forming CCA1α-CCA1β heterodimers, which may have impaired transcription factor activity. [[FIGURE]] Our data suggested that CCA1β attenuates CCA1α transcription factor activity. We next asked how CCA1β regulates CCA1α activity. Dimer formation is known to enhance the DNA binding affinity and specificity of CCA1α and LHY (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, it was hypothesized that CCA1β would inhibit the activity of CCA1α and LHY by forming nonfunctional heterodimers. We first employed yeast three-hybrid assays, in which CCA1β cDNA was expressed under control of a Met-suppressible promoter (pMET25) in yeast cells expressing the DNA binding domain (BD)-CCA1α/LHY fusions and the activation domain (AD)-CCA1α/LHY fusions (Figure 4A). Cell growth assays on selective media and β-Gal activities showed that induction of the CCA1β expression substantially repressed the formation of CCA1α-LHY heterodimers as well as CCA1α-CCA1α and LHY-LHY homodimers (Figures 4B and 4C). CCA1β-mediated competitive inhibition was also examined by BiFC assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The formation of CCA1α-CCA1α, CCA1α-LHY, and LHY-LHY dimers was strongly suppressed by CCA1β coexpression (Figure 4D). Except for the lack of the N-terminal MYB motif, the CCA1β protein is identical to the CCA1α protein in that both have the dimerization domain and the C-terminal region. Transient β-glucuronidase (GUS) expression assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed that the CCA1α and CCA1β proteins exhibit similar transcriptional regulation activities (Figures 5A and 5B). In addition, coexpression of CCA1β did not influence the transcriptional regulation activity of CCA1α (Figure 5B), showing that the CCA1β inhibition of CCA1α activity does not occur at the level of transcriptional regulation. The CCA1 transcription factor binds directly to a conserved CCA1 binding site (CBS), which consists of AAAAATCT and exists in the promoters of several genes, including TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION1 (TOC1), CCA1 HIKING EXPEDITION (CHE), and CBFs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays using recombinant MBP-CCA1 fusion proteins produced in Escherichia coli cells revealed that the CCA1α protein bound efficiently to the CBS motif, but the CCA1β protein did not (Figure 5C). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were also employed to confirm the binding of CCA1α to the CHE promoter (CITATION) using transgenic plants overexpressing CCA1-MYC gene fusions, in which a MYC-coding sequence was fused in frame to the 3′ end of either CCA1α or CCA1β cDNA. Quantitative real-time ChIP-PCR assays demonstrated that the CCA1α-MYC protein bound to the gene promoters in planta, whereas the CCA1β-MYC protein did not have any discernible DNA binding affinity (Figure 5D). In addition, no cosuppression was observed in the 35S:CCA1a-MYC and 35S:CCA1β-MYC transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), supporting the dominant-negative effects of CCA1β on the CCA1α binding to DNA. [[FIGURE]] CCA1β interacted with CCA1α but did not bind to target DNA, suggesting that CCA1β prevents CCA1α from binding DNA. We performed ChIP assays using 35S:CCA1α-MYC transgenic plants that were crossed with 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants. Binding of CCA1α to the CHE gene promoter was significantly reduced in the 35S:CCA1α-MYC × 35S:CCA1β plants (Figure 5E). We also produced 35S:LHY-HA transgenic plants, in which LHY cDNA was fused in frame to a nucleotide sequence encoding four hemagglutinin (HA) tags and expressed under control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The transgenic plants were crossed with 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants. ChIP assays revealed that LHY binding to the TOC1 gene promoter was also reduced in the 35S:LHY-HA × 35S:CCA1β plants (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Levels of CCA1α and LHY proteins and CCA1β transcripts were unaltered in the plants used for ChIP assays (Figure 5F; see Supplemental Figure 8 online), demonstrating that CCA1β inhibits CCA1α and LHY activities by reducing its DNA binding affinity via the formation of nonfunctional heterodimers. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] CCA1-deficient mutants are phenotypically indistinguishable from wild-type plants but display disturbed rhythmic expression patterns in the clock-regulated genes (CITATION; CITATION). Similar to the cca1-1 and cca1-11 mutants in the Wassilewskija-2 background, the cca1-2 mutant in the Col-0 background also exhibited shortened oscillation periods (see Supplemental Figure 9 online), suggesting that the CCA1 function is conserved in the two ecotypes. [[FIGURE]] Since CCA1β negatively regulates the CCA1α and LHY transcription factors, the 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants were expected to be physiologically identical to cca1 lhy mutants. To examine this, plants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS)-agar plates under neutral day cycles (12 h light and 12 h dark) for 10 d were transferred to continuous light conditions at zeitgeber time (ZT) 0 (Figure 6A), and the rhythmic expression patterns of clock genes, such as TOC1, LHY, and GI, were investigated by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). The results showed that the periods of circadian oscillations were shortened, and the rhythmic amplitudes were also considerably reduced in the 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Figure 10 online), similar to the patterns observed in the cca1-11 lhy-21 double mutant (CITATION). Furthermore, the rhythmic expression pattern of circadian clock–controlled, cold-responsive genes, such as CBFs and α-GLUCAN WATER DIKINASE1 (GWD1)/STARCH EXCESS1 (SEX1) (CITATION), were also considerably altered in the 35S:CCA1β transgenic plants (Figure 6C). The rhythmic amplitude was reduced, and its rhythmic period was also shortened. These observations indicate that the CCA1β isoform antagonizes CCA1α and LHY activities in the circadian clock. A critical question was whether naturally produced CCA1β proteins are sufficient to have a significant effect on CCA1α activity. To answer this question, we first analyzed the transcript accumulation of clock-regulated genes in CCA1β-deficient plants (CCA1pro:CCA1α cca1-2), in which the CCA1α cDNA was driven by the endogenous CCA1 gene promoter in the cca1-2 mutant background. qRT-PCR assays revealed that the periods of rhythmic oscillations of GI and LHY transcripts were elongated in the CCA1pro:CCA1α cca1-2 plants (Figure 7A). Levels of CCA1α transcripts in these plants were comparable to those in Col-0 plants (see Supplemental Figure 11 online), indicating that the elongated periods of rhythmic oscillations of the clock gene expression are not caused by CCA1α overproduction but due to the lack of CCA1β under normal growth conditions. We next performed absolute quantification of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts by quantitative real-time PCR analysis (CITATION; CITATION). Comparison of the Ct (cycle threshold) values of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts with the standard curve revealed that the molar level of CCA1β transcripts was ∼43% of that of CCA1α transcripts at ZT4: whereas the CCA1α transcripts were 2.597 × 10−21 mol/μL total cDNA, the CCA1β transcripts were 1.140 × 10−21 mol/μL total cDNA (Figure 7B). Time-course measurements of the relative amounts of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts showed that the molar ratios fluctuate within a range of 35 to 60% (see Supplemental Figure 12 online). Measurements of the translational efficiencies of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts in Arabidopsis protoplasts showed that the two transcripts are translated at a similar level (see Supplemental Figure 13 online). In addition, assays on the turnover rates of CCA1α and CCA1β proteins showed that the stabilities of the two proteins are similar to each other (see Supplemental Figure 14 online). These observations support that the relative levels of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts reflect those of CCA1α and CCA1β proteins. We therefore concluded that the endogenous level of CCA1β is relevant to its role in circadian clock oscillations. We found that CCA1β inhibits transcriptionally active CCA1α and LHY transcription factors by competitively forming nonfunctional heterodimers in modulating clock-regulated genes. A critical question was how CCA1 alternative splicing is regulated. We measured the relative levels of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts under various growth conditions, including heat (37°C), cold (4°C), and light-dark cycle. The levels of both CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts were reduced to a similar degree in the dark (Figure 8A), indicating that whereas the light-dark cycle regulates CCA1 transcription, it does not influence alternative pre-mRNA splicing. By contrast, the relative ratios of CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts were dramatically changed under both heat and cold conditions (Figure 8A). In heat-treated plants, the level of CCA1α transcripts was reduced by ∼40%, while that of CCA1β transcripts was elevated threefold. Notably, the changes in the relative transcript levels were reversed in cold-treated plants: The level of CCA1α transcripts was elevated approximately twofold, while that of CCA1β transcripts was reduced by more than 80% (Figure 8A). Considering the role of CCA1 in freezing tolerance (CITATION; CITATION), we further investigated the pattern of CCA1 alternative splicing under cold conditions. Two-week-old plants grown on MS-agar plates at 23°C were either maintained at 23°C or transferred to 4°C under continuous light conditions, and whole plants were harvested at ZT points for 2 d. qRT-PCR assays showed that both the CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts exhibited rhythmic patterns with peaks at ZT24 in plants grown at 23°C (Figure 8B). By contrast, the rhythmic patterns of CCA1 transcript oscillations were disturbed when plants were grown at 4°C. The CCA1α transcript levels were maintained at a high level at all ZT points, whereas the rhythmic peak of CCA1β transcripts at ZT24 disappeared completely, indicating that alternative splicing of CCA1 is suppressed by cold. We found that CCA1 activity is regulated at the posttranscriptional level by alternative pre-mRNA splicing under cold conditions. We therefore asked whether CCA1 alternative splicing is correlated with the role of the CCA1 gene in freezing tolerance. CCA1-overexpressing transgenic plants and the cca1-2 mutant were grown for 2 weeks on MS-agar plates and subsequently incubated at −7°C for 5 h. The plants were allowed to recover at 23°C for 1 week before surviving seedlings were counted. Whereas the 35S:CCA1α (Col-0) transgenic plants exhibited enhanced tolerance to freezing (Figures 9A and 9B), consistent with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), the 35S:CCA1β (Col-0) transgenic and cca1-2 mutant plants were more sensitive to freezing than the Col-0 plants (Figures 9A and 9B). Freezing tolerance was further examined by electrolyte leakage assays. The temperature at 50% electrolyte leakage (T50) was about −7°C in the Col-0 plants (Figure 9C). By contrast, whereas the T50 was −9°C in the 35S:CCA1α (Col-0) transgenic plants, it was −5°C in the 35S:CCA1β (Col-0) transgenic plants. In particular, the survival rate of the 35S:CCA1α cca1-2 plants, in which the CCA1α gene is driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in the cca1-2 background, was higher than that of the 35S:CCA1α (Col-0) transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 15 online), which is explained by the negative regulation of the CCA1α activity by CCA1β in inducing freezing tolerance. We next examined the transcript accumulation of clock genes and cold-responsive genes, including GI and CBFs. Plants entrained to neutral day cycles (12 h light and 12 h dark) for 10 d were transferred to continuous light conditions at either 23 or 4°C. Whole plants were harvested at ZT points up to 48 h (see Supplemental Figure 16A online), and the transcript levels of clock-associated genes were determined by qRT-PCR. At 4°C, rhythmic oscillations of clock genes diminished, which correlated with cold acclimation (see Supplemental Figures 16A and 16B online; CITATION; CITATION). Notably, the expression of CBF and GI genes was maintained at higher levels in the 35S:CCA1α (Col-0) transgenic plants but was considerably lower in the 35S:CCA1β (Col-0) transgenic plants in cold-acclimated seedlings (Figure 9D; see Supplemental Figure 16B online), supporting that CCA1α regulates the amplitude of CBF and GI transcripts under cold conditions. Together, our findings show that CCA1α activity is modulated in a temperature-dependent manner through a self-regulatory module provided by CCA1β. The CCA1β modulator integrates temperature signals into the clock, where CCA1α regulates an output pathway containing GI and CBF genes to induce freezing tolerance.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana lines used were in the Col-0 background, unless otherwise specified. Plants were grown in a controlled culture room at 23°C with a relative humidity of 55% under long days (16 h light/8 h dark) with white light illumination (120 μmol photons/m2s) provided by fluorescent FLR40D/A tubes (Osram). The cca1-2 mutant (FLAG-141G10) in the Col-0 background was isolated from an Arabidopsis mutant pool of T-DNA insertion lines deposited in the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (Versailles, France). Homozygotic lines were obtained by herbicide selection for three or more generations and by analysis of segregation ratios. Lack of CCA1 gene expression in the mutant was verified by RT-PCR. To produce transgenic plants overexpressing CCA1α and CCA1β genes, full-length cDNAs were subcloned into the binary pB2GW7 vector under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (Invitrogen) through homologous recombination of attB1 and attB2 sites (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated Arabidopsis transformation was performed according to a modified floral dip method (CITATION). T3 transgenic plants having single T-DNA insertional events were used in the assays. qRT-PCR was employed to measure the transcript levels. RNA sample preparation, reverse transcription, and quantitative PCR were performed according to the rules recently proposed by CITATION to provide reproducible and accurate measurements. The extraction of total RNA samples from appropriate plant materials and RT-PCR conditions have been described previously (CITATION). The RNA samples were pretreated extensively with an RNase-free DNase to remove any contaminating genomic DNA prior to use. qRT-PCR reactions were performed in 96-well blocks with an Applied Biosystems 7500 real-time PCR system using the SYBR Green I master mix in a volume of 25 μL. The PCR primers were designed using the Primer Express Software installed in the system and listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The two-step thermal cycling profile used was 15 s at 94°C and 1 min at 68°C. An eIF4A gene (At3g13920) was included in the reactions as an internal control to normalize the variations in the amounts of cDNA used (CITATION). All qRT-PCR reactions were performed in biological triplicates using RNA samples extracted from three independent plant materials grown under identical growth conditions. The comparative ΔΔCT method was employed to evaluate relative quantities of each product amplified from the samples. The threshold cycle (CT) was automatically determined for each reaction using the default parameters of the system. The specificity of the PCR reactions was determined by melt curve analysis of the amplified products using the standard methods installed in the system. For absolute quantification of endogenous CCA1α and CCA1β transcripts, cDNAs of CCA1α and CCA1β were subcloned into the pDONR vector (Invitrogen) through homologous recombination of attB1 and attB2 sites, and an absolute standard curve of each transcript was generated by 10-fold serial dilutions covering 10−17 to 10−23 mol, as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using the SYBR Green I master mix (Applied Biosystems), with CCA1α-specific primers (forward, 5′-GATCTGGTTATTAAGACTCGGAAGCCATATAC-3′; and reverse, 5′-GCCTCTTTCTCTACCTTGGAGA-3′) and CCA1β-specific primers (forward, 5′-GAATGTTCCTTGTGATAAGCCATAGAGG-3′, and reverse, 5′-AGGATCGTTCCACTTCCCGTCTT-3′). Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed using the BD Matchmaker system (Clontech). The pGADT7 vector was used for GAL4 AD, and the pGBKT7 vector was used for GAL4 BD. Yeast strain AH109 (Leu-, Trp-, Ade-, His-), which has the chromosomally integrated reporter genes lacZ and HIS under control of the GAL1 promoter, was used for transformation. The PCR products were digested with EcoRI and BamHI (for CCA1α) and NdeI and EcoRI (for CCA1β) and subcloned into the pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors. Transformation of AH109 cells was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Colonies obtained were streaked on medium without His, Ade, Leu, and Trp. To confirm the results, β-Gal assays were performed according to the system procedure. The pBridge vector (Clontech) was used for yeast three-hybrid screening. The CCA1α cDNA was amplified by RT-PCR (see Supplemental Table 1 online), and the PCR product was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and then subcloned into the pBridge vector, resulting in the BD-CCA1α construct. The CCA1β cDNA was subcloned into the NotI and BglII-digested pBridge vector so that its expression was controlled by the Met-repressible pMET25 promoter. The expression constructs (BD-CCA1α and pMET25-CCA1β in the pBridge vector and AD-CCA1α in the pGADT7 vector) were cotransformed into AH109 cells. The colonies were streaked on media without Leu, Trp, and His and supplemented with or without Met. Recombinant MBP and MBP-CCA1α fusion proteins were produced in Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL strains (Stratagene) and purified as follows. One-tenth volume of precultured cells in 5 mL of Luria-Bertani medium was added to 500 mL of fresh Luria-Bertani medium and cultured at 37°C until OD600 reached 0.3 to 0.6. Protein production was induced by adding isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside at a final concentration of 0.5 mM and shaking at 37°C for 5 h. The cells were harvested and resuspended in buffer A (25 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 20% glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 100 mM NaCl, and 0.2 mM EDTA) containing protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich) and 1 mM PMSF. The cells were lysed using a French press (8500 p.s.i.; one time). The lysates were sonicated twice for 30 s each and then centrifuged at 20,000g for 20 min. The supernatants were stored at −80°C until use. The CCA1α and CCA1β cDNAs were amplified by RT-PCR and subcloned into the pGADT7 vector. The CCA1α and CCA1β polypeptides were labeled with 35S-Met using the TNT-coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega). The MBP or MBP-CCA1α proteins were mixed with amylose resin (Sigma-Aldrich) and agitated for 15 min at room temperature. The beads were then washed three times with 1× PBS buffer and one time with buffer A. Five microliters of the 35S-labeled proteins was added, and the samples were incubated for 2 h at 4°C. Next, the beads were washed five times with buffer A. The bound proteins were eluted with 1× SDS-PAGE loading buffer by boiling for 5 min at 100°C and subjected to SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. BiFC assays were performed by cotransfection of the CCA1α-nYFP and CCA1β-cYFP vectors or vice versa into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. The expression constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-calcium transfection (CITATION). The subcellular distribution of CCA1 proteins was visualized by differential interference contrast microscopy and fluorescence microscopy. Reconstitution of YFP fluorescence was observed using a confocal microscope with the following YFP filter setup: excitation 515 nm, 458/514 dichroic, and emission 560- to 615-nm band-pass filter. For transient expression assays in Arabidopsis protoplasts, several reporter and effector plasmids were constructed. The reporter plasmids contain four copies of the GAL4 upstream activation sequence and the GUS gene. To construct the p35S:CCA1 effector plasmids, the CCA1α and CCA1β cDNAs were fused to the GAL4 BD-coding sequence and inserted into an expression vector containing the CaMV 35S promoter. The reporter and effector plasmids were cotransformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts by a polyethylene glycol–mediated transformation method. GUS activities were measured by the fluorometric method as previously described (CITATION). A CaMV 35S promoter-luciferase construct was also cotransformed as an internal control. The luciferase assay was performed using the Luciferase Assay System (Promega). The CCA1α and CCA1β cDNAs were subcloned into the pMAL-c2X E. coli expression vector (NEB) with an MBP-coding sequence. The MBP-CCA1 fusion proteins were purified according to the manufacturer’s instructions using the pMAL Protein Fusion and Purification System (#E8000S; New England BioLabs Inc.). DNA fragments were end labeled with [γ-32P]dATP using T4 polynucleotide kinase. Labeled probes were incubated with ∼0.5 μg of purified MBP-CCA1 proteins for 30 min at 25°C in binding buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 5 mM DTT, and 5% glycerol). The reaction mixtures were electrophoresed on 6% native PAGE gels. The gels were dried on Whatman 3MM paper and exposed to x-ray films. An MYC-coding sequence was fused in frame to the 3′ ends of the CCA1α and CCA1β cDNAs, and the fusions were subcloned under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (CITATION). The expression construct was transformed into Arabidopsis plants. Three-week-old 35S:CCA1α-MYC and 35S:CCA1β-MYC transgenic plants grown on half-strength MS-agar plates were used for extraction of the total cellular extracts. Processing of plant materials and qRT-PCR were performed as described previously (CITATION). The qRT-PCR primers used have been described previously (CITATION). The primers used to amplify the CBS-containing sequence region in the CHE promoter were, forward, 5′-AAAAATCTCGACGCAACGAC-3′, and reverse, 5′-CATTTGGAGCGTGGCATAAT-3′. A sequence region consisting of nucleotides 926 to 1035 downstream of the CBS element was amplified by the primer pair, forward, 5′-TGTCTCCACCAGCCTAGCTTC-3′, and reverse 5′-CATGGAATTAGGATTTCGTTATCA-3′, and used as a negative control. Approximately 30 plants grown for 2 weeks on MS-agar plates were incubated for 5 h at −7°C. After incubating at 4°C for 24 h in the dark, the plants were allowed to recover at 23°C for 1 week before surviving plants were counted. Three independent measurements of survival rates were averaged and statistically analyzed using a Student’s t test. Electrolyte leakage assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be obtained from the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: CCA1 (At2g46830), LHY (At1g01060), TOC1 (At5g61380), GI (At1g22770), GWD1/SEX1 (At1g10760), CBF1 (At4g25490), CBF2 (At4g25470), and CBF3 (At4g25480). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alternatively Spliced Variants of CCA1 Gene. Supplemental Figure 2. Nucleotide Sequences of CCA1α and CCA1β cDNAs. Supplemental Figure 3. Amino Acid Sequence Comparison of CCA1α and CCA1β Proteins. Supplemental Figure 4. Interactions between CCA1β and LHY. Supplemental Figure 5. Levels of CCA1α and CCA1β Transcripts in CCA1α- and CCA1β-Overexpressing Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 6. Levels of CCA1α and CCA1β Transcripts in 35S:CCA1α-MYC and 35S:CCA1β-MYC Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 7. ChIP Assays on 35S:LHY-HA X 35S:CCA1β Plants. Supplemental Figure 8. Relative Levels of CCA1β Transcripts. Supplemental Figure 9. Altered Circadian Rhythm of GI Expression in the cca1-2 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 10. Altered Circadian Rhythm of LHY Expression in 35S:CCA1β Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 11. Rhythmic Accumulation of CCA1α Transcripts in CCA1pro:CCA1α cca1-2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 12. Ratios of CCA1α and CCA1β Transcripts. Supplemental Figure 13. Downstream GUS Translational Efficiency of CCA1α and CCA1β Transcripts in Arabidopsis Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 14. Protein Turnover of CCA1α and CCA1β. Supplemental Figure 15. Freezing Tolerance of 35S:CCA1α (Col-0) and 35S:CCA1α cca1-2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 16. Altered Circadian Rhythms in 35S:CCA1α and 35S:CCA1β Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in qRT-PCR and Subcloning.
