!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis endonuclease RNase E (RNE) is localized in the chloroplast and is involved in processing of plastid ribonucleic acids (RNAs). By expression of a tandem affinity purification-tagged version of the plastid RNE in the Arabidopsis rne mutant background in combination with mass spectrometry, we identified the novel vascular plant-specific and co-regulated interaction partner of RNE, designated RHON1. RHON1 is essential for photoautotrophic growth and together with RNE forms a distinct ∼800 kDa complex. Additionally, RHON1 is part of various smaller RNA-containing complexes. RIP-chip and other association studies revealed that a helix-extended-helix-structured Rho-N motif at the C-terminus of RHON1 binds to and supports processing of specific plastid RNAs. In all respects, such as plastid RNA precursor accumulation, protein pattern, increased number and decreased size of chloroplasts and defective chloroplast development, the phenotype of rhon1 knockout mutants resembles that of rne lines. This strongly suggests that RHON1 supports RNE functions presumably by conferring sequence specificity to the endonuclease.
!~RES~! The non-photosynthetic high-chlorophyll-fluorescence (hcf) mutant hcf2 was originally identified in a screen of EMS-mutagenized Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). We assigned the mutation in our mapping population using 1536 meiotic chromosomes to bacterial artificial chromosome T23O15 between two adjacent markers with 3 and 10 recombination events (Supplementary Figure S1A). Sequencing of genes located in between revealed a mutation (rne-2) in the RNE gene At2g04270 with a single G-to-A transition of the last nucleotide of the seventh intron (Supplementary Figure S1B). Sequencing of RT-PCR products uncovered an alternative splice site 18 nucleotides farther downstream within exon eight (Supplementary Figure S1B and C) resulting in a deletion of six amino acid residues within the RNase H fold of rne-2. RNE is absent in the rne-1 knockout line, whereas in rne-2, the protein lacking the six aa is expressed at normal levels (Supplementary Figure S1D). The protein runs at ∼140 kDa, although the predicted size of the mature protein lacking the transit peptide for chloroplast import is around 104 kDa. This anomaly in migration has also been reported for RNE in E. coli (CITATION) and was mentioned in previous reports about plastid RNE (CITATION,CITATION). In E. coli, RNE plays an important role in processing of tRNA transcripts (CITATION,CITATION) and cleaves the tRNATYRSu3 precursor (Su3) with high efficiency (CITATION). An over-expressed, truncated form of the chloroplast RNE protein lacking the first N-terminal 283 aa was reported previously to be enzymatically active in cleavage of Su3, producing the mature tRNA and a 5′-leader sequence (CITATION). Moreover, similar to E. coli, Arabidopsis RNE exhibits an increased cleavage activity when the 5′-end of the substrate RNA is mono- (P) but not triphosphorylated (PPP) (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION). The endonucleolytic activity of the previously characterized Arabidopsis protein, comprising aa 284–996, was now compared with a modified RNE protein S1m, lacking the plant-specific insertion of domain S1 (aa 422–532), making the protein similar to the E. coli RNE (CITATIONA). In addition, the endonucleolytic activity of the corresponding version of RNE-2 lacking the six aa 688–693 was analysed (CITATIONA). All three forms were expressed in bacteria and isolated to high purity. Preparations of the recombinant enzymes were examined by immunoblot analysis using His6-specific antibodies (CITATIONB). Only a very small portion of 5′-PPP-Su3 and 5′-P-Su3 was cleaved by S1m over an incubation period of 15 minutes (CITATIONC). In contrast, the wild-type form was able to cleave ∼50% of 5′-PPP-Su3 tRNA compared with almost complete cleavage of 5′-P-Su3. This indicates an indispensable role of the additional plant-specific motif within the S1 domain for RNE enzymatic activity. The recombinant RNE-2 was also unable to cleave 5′-P-Su3 transcripts (CITATIOND). This explains why the overall rne-2 phenotype is very similar to that of the rne-1 knockout line and demonstrates that the internal six aa in the RNase H fold are essential for activity. Homozygous rne seedlings developed pale cotyledons when grown on sucrose-supplemented medium and were only able to survive on soil when kept under optimal watering and light conditions albeit with severe growth retardations as reported recently (CITATION) and confirmed in this study (Supplementary Figure S2A). To further investigate the function of RNE and potential interactions, we complemented homozygous rne-1 mutants with the RNE full-length cDNA fused in frame to a TAP-tag, creating rneTAP lines. The TAP-tag consists of a tandem of three human influenza hemagglutinin (HA) epitopes followed by one StrepIII epitope, which are separated by a short linker sequence (Supplementary Figure S2B). The vector contains a weak promoter derived from the HCF173 gene to avoid over-expression of the tagged protein (CITATION). This should allow identification of interaction partners using highly specific monoclonal antibodies raised against the epitopes of the tags in Co-IP experiments. Homozygosity of rneTAP plants was confirmed by PCR (Supplementary Figure S2C). No visible differences could be observed between epitope-tagged mutant lines and wild-type plants, suggesting that the TAP-tag does not impair the function of RNE (Supplementary Figure S2D). Immunoblot analyses of complemented rne lines revealed a signal at the expected size (RNE 140 kDa + TAP-tag = 147 kDa) in the chloroplast stroma using mono-specific HA antibodies and the StrepIII-tag allowed purification of RNE under native conditions (Supplementary Figure S2E). Stromal fractions were prepared from isolated chloroplasts and subjected to Co-IP using a Strep-tactin column. Co-IP eluates were shortly separated on a gel and subsequently in-gel digested with trypsin. The resulting peptides were analysed through microcapillary liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry MS/MS followed by protein database searches of the generated spectra. Three independent experiments identified several peptides of RNE together with a protein that could be assigned to the At1g06190 gene (Supplementary Table S2). Both proteins were completely absent when untagged wild-type plants or lines expressing other TAP-tagged proteins, such as HCF101 (CITATION), PrfB3 (CITATION) and PAC (CITATION), were subjected to the same procedure (unpublished data), indicating the reliability of the TAP-tag purification and suggesting that the At1g06190 gene product is either directly or indirectly associated with RNE. With the exception of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, RNE homologs can be found in all photosynthetic lineages including green algae (CITATION), whereas bioinformatical genome inspections revealed that At1g06190 holds homologies only among vascular plants. Domain analysis revealed that the protein contains a predicted transit peptide for transfer to the chloroplast (ChloroP) and two conserved regions of unknown function followed by a stretch consisting of highly negatively charged aa. The C-terminal domain is similar to the N-terminal part of the RNA-binding domain of bacterial transcription termination factor Rho (CITATION,CITATION), which has a helix-extended-helix structure and is called Rho-N (CITATIONA). Hence, we named the At1g06190 protein RHON1. Besides RHON1, the Arabidopsis genome encodes two other proteins with a putative Rho-N domain, predicted to be targeted to mitochondria (At4g18740) and cytoplasm (At2g41550) (CITATIONA). Figure 2.Multiple sequence alignment of Rho-N motifs and rhon1 phenotype. (A) The alignment shows the Rho-N motifs of RHON1 and proteins of unknown function in Arabidopsis thaliana (At4g18740, At2g41550), Physcomitrella patens (XP_001761620) and Ostreococcus lucimarinus (XP_001416615), as well as N-terminal sequences of Rho factors from Synechocystis, Rhodobacter and E. coli, starting with the aa indicated. The secondary structure shown above the alignment and the consensus sequence shown below were described in Aravind and Koonin (CITATION). Negatively charged aa are coloured in red and positively charged in blue. H, helix; h, hydrophobic; p, polar; b, big; s, small and l, aliphatic. (B) The pale phenotype of a rhon1 mutant plant when compared with wild type grown on sucrose-supplemented MS media for 21 days under constant light is shown (left). A 6-week-old rhon1 mutant grown on soil displays an albinotic phenotype and dies after 7 weeks (right). Scale bars indicate the size of 1 cm. Multiple sequence alignment of Rho-N motifs and rhon1 phenotype. (A) The alignment shows the Rho-N motifs of RHON1 and proteins of unknown function in Arabidopsis thaliana (At4g18740, At2g41550), Physcomitrella patens (XP_001761620) and Ostreococcus lucimarinus (XP_001416615), as well as N-terminal sequences of Rho factors from Synechocystis, Rhodobacter and E. coli, starting with the aa indicated. The secondary structure shown above the alignment and the consensus sequence shown below were described in Aravind and Koonin (CITATION). Negatively charged aa are coloured in red and positively charged in blue. H, helix; h, hydrophobic; p, polar; b, big; s, small and l, aliphatic. (B) The pale phenotype of a rhon1 mutant plant when compared with wild type grown on sucrose-supplemented MS media for 21 days under constant light is shown (left). A 6-week-old rhon1 mutant grown on soil displays an albinotic phenotype and dies after 7 weeks (right). Scale bars indicate the size of 1 cm. The previously described rice protein OsBP-73 (Os03g0183100) was assumed to bind DNA (CITATION) and exhibits 35% sequence similarity to the N-terminal part of RHON1. An in vitro interaction with the promoter of the nuclear waxy gene in rice suggested localization of OsBP-73 in the nucleus where it functions as transcription factor. However, localization of OsBP-73 was not addressed experimentally. Several subcellular localization algorithms predicted that RHON1 and OsBP-73 are present in the chloroplast (ChloroP, TargetP, PCLR). This is consistent with the identification of RHON1 peptides in recent chloroplast proteomics studies (CITATION,CITATION). An Arabidopsis T-DNA mutant of the RHON1 locus affected in chloroplast RNA metabolism, and also exhibiting an hcf phenotype was previously identified in our group. Mutants of rhon1 were smaller and showed a pale-green phenotype when grown on sucrose-supplemented MS medium. When grown on soil, some rhon1 mutants could survive up to 7 weeks exhibiting an albinotic phenotype (CITATIONB). Segregation analysis using 2448 F2 progenies and 638 individual F3 plants derived from backcrossed mutant plants revealed that the mutation is either caused by or very closely located to one insertional event because the kanamycin resistance conferred by the T-DNA strictly co-segregated with the mutant phenotype. It was impossible to identify the T-DNA flanking sequences by inverse PCR because of multiple truncated T-DNA insertions in this locus as revealed by genomic Southern analysis. Therefore, we fine mapped the mutation on the upper part of chromosome 1 (CITATIONA) and localized the T-DNA insertions at position +481 relative to the start codon of RHON1 (CITATIONA and B). Using RT-PCR, we generated a full-length RHON1 cDNA encoding a protein of 401 aa. Figure 3.Mapping, phenotype and complementation of rhon1. (A) Molecular markers (H-M) used for fine mapping of rhon1 on chromosome 1 and the corresponding numbers of recombinant events are shown. Sequencing revealed that the T-DNA was inserted into the At1g06190 gene (RHON1). (B) Exons (grey boxes) and introns (black lines) show the structure of the genomic RHON1 gene. The T-DNA insertion at position +481 is marked. Arrows indicate the positions of primers used for PCR analysis. (C) RHON1 contains a putative chloroplast transit peptide (TP), two highly conserved regions (red) and the C-terminal motif Rho-N (yellow). For complementation of the mutant, a construct of the full-length protein fused to an HA-Strep TAP-tag was used. (D) WT and complemented rhon1TAP plants were grown on soil for 4 weeks in 12/12 hours light/dark conditions. Scale bars indicate the size of 1 cm. (E) PCR analysis demonstrates orientation of the T-DNA insertion in exon 2 of rhon1 and homozygosity of independent complemented lines. (F) Chlorophyll fluorescence was imaged from protoplasts isolated from WT, rne-1 and rhon1. Scale bars indicate the size of 10 µm. Mapping, phenotype and complementation of rhon1. (A) Molecular markers (H-M) used for fine mapping of rhon1 on chromosome 1 and the corresponding numbers of recombinant events are shown. Sequencing revealed that the T-DNA was inserted into the At1g06190 gene (RHON1). (B) Exons (grey boxes) and introns (black lines) show the structure of the genomic RHON1 gene. The T-DNA insertion at position +481 is marked. Arrows indicate the positions of primers used for PCR analysis. (C) RHON1 contains a putative chloroplast transit peptide (TP), two highly conserved regions (red) and the C-terminal motif Rho-N (yellow). For complementation of the mutant, a construct of the full-length protein fused to an HA-Strep TAP-tag was used. (D) WT and complemented rhon1TAP plants were grown on soil for 4 weeks in 12/12 hours light/dark conditions. Scale bars indicate the size of 1 cm. (E) PCR analysis demonstrates orientation of the T-DNA insertion in exon 2 of rhon1 and homozygosity of independent complemented lines. (F) Chlorophyll fluorescence was imaged from protoplasts isolated from WT, rne-1 and rhon1. Scale bars indicate the size of 10 µm. All attempts to express the full-length RHON1 in E. coli cells or to immunize rabbits against synthetic RHON1 peptides to get functional antibodies failed. Thus, we complemented the rhon1 mutant with the cDNA fused to the same TAP-tag as for RNE (CITATIONC and D). Genotyping confirmed homozygosity of three independent lines (CITATIONE). Complemented rhon1TAP lines could not be distinguished phenotypically from the wild type (CITATIOND) indicating that the rhon1 mutant phenotype is solely caused by the multiple T-DNA insertions in the RHON1 gene. The phenotype of rhon1 mainly resembles that of rne, but in contrast to rne, homozygous rhon1 mutants grown on soil are lethal after a few weeks and were therefore grown only on sucrose-supplemented medium. Chlorophyll a fluorescence imaging of isolated leaf protoplasts revealed a dramatic decrease in chloroplast size accompanied with an increase in chloroplast number in both rne and rhon1 mutants when compared with the wild type (CITATIONF). To confirm the RNE–RHON1 association by an independent experiment, we investigated Co-IPs of rhon1TAP lines. Using the HA antibody, we could observe a distinct RHON1 signal in lysate, flow through and eluate of rhon1TAP but not of untagged wild-type lines. Notably, the tagged RHON1 protein shows the same anomaly of migration in SDS-gels such as RNE, running at 60 kDa, which is ∼13 kDa higher than expected, probably due to the high amount of negatively charged aa (Supplementary Figure S3). The same immunoblot probed with the RNE antibody detected RNE in lysate and flow through of rhon1TAP and wild type but only in the eluate of rhon1TAP where it co-precipitated with RHON1 (CITATIONA). Control experiments using antibodies raised against HCF101 or PAC, which are involved in plastid Fe/S cluster biogenesis (CITATION) and RNA metabolism (CITATION,CITATION), respectively, did not give any notable signal in rhon1TAP or wild-type eluates, suggesting that rhon1TAP precipitated specifically RNE. This data confirms that both proteins are stably associated in the same protein complex. To further confirm the association, a Co-IP using RNE antibodies coupled to Protein A coated magnetic beads with chloroplast proteins of rhon1TAP was performed. The antibody precipitated both RNE and RHON1, whereas pre-immune sera of the same rabbit failed to do so, again substantiating the association of both proteins (CITATIONB). Figure 4.RNE associates with RHON1 in a HMW complex. (A) Soluble protein extracts from rhon1TAP or WT were immunoprecipitated using an HA matrix. Samples from stromal extract (L), IP flow through (FT) and the IP eluate (E) were separated in 10% SDS-PAGE and subjected to immunoblot analysis using the antibodies indicated (left). Protein sizes are given in kDa (right). (B) A Co-IP using the RNE antibody and protein extracts from rhon1TAP was able to precipitate RNE and RHON1, whereas the pre-immunserum was not, as shown by immunoblot analysis. pre-i, pre-immunserum. (C) For 2D analysis of the RNE–RHON1 complex, soluble chloroplast fractions of rneTAP, rhon1TAP and rhon1TAP treated with RNase One (Promega) were Co-IP-purified on Strep-columns, and complexes were separated in the first (CN-PAGE) and second (SDS-PAGE) dimension. Blotted gels were immunodecorated with an HA antibody and sizes of complexes estimated using a HMW marker set (GE). The left parts of rhon1TAP immunoblots were overexposed. The HMW complex of ∼800 kDa (arrow) containing both RNE and RHON1 did not disappear on RNase One treatment (not shown for rneTAP). RNE associates with RHON1 in a HMW complex. (A) Soluble protein extracts from rhon1TAP or WT were immunoprecipitated using an HA matrix. Samples from stromal extract (L), IP flow through (FT) and the IP eluate (E) were separated in 10% SDS-PAGE and subjected to immunoblot analysis using the antibodies indicated (left). Protein sizes are given in kDa (right). (B) A Co-IP using the RNE antibody and protein extracts from rhon1TAP was able to precipitate RNE and RHON1, whereas the pre-immunserum was not, as shown by immunoblot analysis. pre-i, pre-immunserum. (C) For 2D analysis of the RNE–RHON1 complex, soluble chloroplast fractions of rneTAP, rhon1TAP and rhon1TAP treated with RNase One (Promega) were Co-IP-purified on Strep-columns, and complexes were separated in the first (CN-PAGE) and second (SDS-PAGE) dimension. Blotted gels were immunodecorated with an HA antibody and sizes of complexes estimated using a HMW marker set (GE). The left parts of rhon1TAP immunoblots were overexposed. The HMW complex of ∼800 kDa (arrow) containing both RNE and RHON1 did not disappear on RNase One treatment (not shown for rneTAP). The hcf-phenotypes of pale rne and rhon1 mutant plants indicate defects in the photosynthetic apparatus. To investigate the deficiencies, the activities of photosystems (PS) I and II were determined using spectroscopic methods. The oxidized state and the weak signal of PSI demonstrate that electron transport towards PSI is limited and that PSI levels are reduced in the mutants, respectively (Supplementary Figure S4A). The maximum quantum yield of PSII (Fv/Fm), a standard parameter of PSII integrity, was reduced to ∼50% and 40% in rne and rhon1, respectively (Supplementary Figure S4B). The epitope-tagged complemented lines behaved comparably to wild type. As these data pointed out severe pleiotropic effects on photosynthetic capacity, we determined the content of photosynthetic proteins by immunoblot analyses. Levels of most PSI and PSII proteins and the plastid ATP synthase were reduced to equal amounts of less than 25% in both mutants, whereas amounts of the cytochrome b6f complex were more affected in rhon1 than in rne-1 (Supplementary Figure S4C). To check the molecular cause for reduced protein levels in rhon1, translation of plastid-encoded thylakoid proteins was estimated (CITATION). It seemed that less radioactive label was incorporated into the PSII proteins D1, D2, CP47 and some smaller unknown proteins indicating translational deficiencies in rhon1 (Supplementary Figure S4D). Taken together, the pleiotropic phenotype of rhon1 is comparable with but to a certain extent more severe than that of rne-1 displaying an elevated importance and/or additional functions of RHON1 in comparison with RNE. As we confirmed that RHON1 always precipitates with RNE, we intended to elucidate the nature of the RHON1–RNE protein complex. The biochemical characterization of the plastid RNE turned out to be similarly difficult as reported for the bacterial enzyme, which is extremely sensitive to proteolysis and tends to form larger assemblies when over-expressed in E. coli cells (CITATION). Because even freezing resulted in a severe loss of plastid RNE protein, biochemical analysis had to be conducted strictly with fresh preparations. This high rate of RNE protein degradation made classical separation methods such as size exclusion chromatography unfeasible. Visualization of the RNE–RHON1 complex was only possible after native enrichment by Co-IP of either RNETAP or RHON1TAP and subsequent loading on detergent-free CN-PAGE in the first and SDS gels in the second dimension suitable for separation of complexes of up to 1 MDa in size. Several independent 2D-PAGE experiments revealed the presence of RNETAP and RHON1TAP in a complex of ∼800 kDa running more than 1 cm into the separating gel (CITATIONC). Based on the highly variable degradosomes found in bacteria and mitochondria, the confirmation of a conserved function of RNE in RNA processing (CITATION) and identical processing defects in rhon1 and rne (see later), this HMW assembly could hint to the presence of a degradosome-like complex in the chloroplast. Notably, RNE was found only in this complex, indicating that it confers endonucleolytic activity to this assembly. Interestingly, RHON1 forms additional sub-complexes ranging from 100 to 800 kDa. On RNase One treatment, sub-complexes >150 kDa disappeared almost completely and gave rise to a prominent and distinct RHON1TAP-containing complex of 150 kDa (CITATIONC) This indicates interactions of RHON1 with RNAs of a broad molecular weight range. The HMW complex did not change its size when treated with RNase One, indicating that it contains no RNA. To test whether RNE directly interacts with RHON1 or whether they are connected to each other by additional proteins, we performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis using transient expression of both proteins in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). Co-expression of YFPC-tagged RNE and YFPN-tagged RHON1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts resulted in significant fluorescence (CITATIONA) suggesting a direct interaction of both proteins in the chloroplast, whereas the constructs expressed alone did not give any YFP signal (CITATIONB). Moreover, co-expression of RHON1-YFPN and RHON1-YFPC indicated that RHON1 has the ability to form homodimers or homomultimers (CITATIONC), which could be part of the RNA-binding RHON1 sub-complexes. No fluorescence was found in protoplasts with expression of RHON1-YFPC alone or co-expression of empty YFPN and YFPC vectors (CITATIOND). Consistent with a direct physical association, a specific reduction of RNE levels to ∼25% was observed in rhon1 mutants when compared with the wild type. This indicates that the proteins are also functionally connected to each other (CITATIONA). Figure 5.BiFC detection of RNE and RHON1 protein interactions and RHON1 dimerization. Interaction of proteins is depicted in green and was visualized by split YFP using fluorescence microscopy. Chlorophyll autofluorescence is shown in red. Merged pictures that appear orange confirm that protein interaction takes place inside the chloroplast. (A) RHON1-YFPN and RNE-YFPC constructs were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts by co-transformation and show a clear YFP signal. (B) RHON1-YFPN or RNE-YFPC transformed alone do not show any signal. (C) Co-transformation of RHON1-YFPN and RHON1-YFPC shows a strong signal indicative for dimerization and/or multimerization of the protein. (D) RHON1-YFPC transformed alone, and co-transformed empty YFPN and YFPC vectors show no signal. Scale bars indicate the size of 10 µm. Figure 6.RNE levels in rhon1 and the phenotype of rne/rne rhon1/rhon1 double knockouts. (A) Comparison of RNE levels in wild type, rne and rhon1 mutants. Levels of the protein PAC were used as a loading control. (B) Double knockouts were generated by crossing heterozygous rne-1 and rhon1 mutants and selfing of the selected double heterozygous F1. The average Fv/Fm rate and standard deviation were determined from 10 independent plants. Representative mutant plants are shown above each column, whereas wild-type and double heterozygous plants are only shown in parts to maintain the same scale. BiFC detection of RNE and RHON1 protein interactions and RHON1 dimerization. Interaction of proteins is depicted in green and was visualized by split YFP using fluorescence microscopy. Chlorophyll autofluorescence is shown in red. Merged pictures that appear orange confirm that protein interaction takes place inside the chloroplast. (A) RHON1-YFPN and RNE-YFPC constructs were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts by co-transformation and show a clear YFP signal. (B) RHON1-YFPN or RNE-YFPC transformed alone do not show any signal. (C) Co-transformation of RHON1-YFPN and RHON1-YFPC shows a strong signal indicative for dimerization and/or multimerization of the protein. (D) RHON1-YFPC transformed alone, and co-transformed empty YFPN and YFPC vectors show no signal. Scale bars indicate the size of 10 µm. RNE levels in rhon1 and the phenotype of rne/rne rhon1/rhon1 double knockouts. (A) Comparison of RNE levels in wild type, rne and rhon1 mutants. Levels of the protein PAC were used as a loading control. (B) Double knockouts were generated by crossing heterozygous rne-1 and rhon1 mutants and selfing of the selected double heterozygous F1. The average Fv/Fm rate and standard deviation were determined from 10 independent plants. Representative mutant plants are shown above each column, whereas wild-type and double heterozygous plants are only shown in parts to maintain the same scale. The nature of both rne-1 and rhon1 mutations was strictly recessive. Fv/Fm levels were more reduced (0.07 ± 0.07), and the pale phenotype seemed to be more intense in the homozygous rne-1/rne-1 rhon1/rhon1 double knockout mutants than in the individual knockouts indicating an additive effect of the mutations on photosynthetic parameters and chloroplast development (CITATIONB). Therefore, we assume that RHON1 also has other functions in addition to supporting RNE performance. As an initial survey experiment to identify the plastid RNA targets of RHON1 complexes, we performed RIP-chip assays. Co-immunoprecipitated RNAs from TAP-tagged lines and wild type as negative control were isolated from flow through and eluates using both HA- and Strep-tags and subsequently labelled with red- or green-fluorescing dyes, respectively. These RNAs were combined and hybridized to a tiling microarray of the Arabidopsis chloroplast genome (CITATION). Replicate experiments revealed that the RNAs most strongly enriched in Co-IPs using rhon1TAP were the ribosomal 16 S and 23 S RNAs (CITATIONA, Supplementary Table S3). Slot-blot hybridization of immunoprecipitated RNAs from flow through and eluate verified the enrichment of 16 S and 23 S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) using full-length gene probes (CITATIONB), whereas 4.5 S, 5 S, ycf1 and rbcL RNAs were not bound efficiently. This suggests that RHON1-containing complexes associate with the highly abundant 16 S and 23 S rRNAs. Consistently, expression of these rRNAs is also severely affected in the mutants (see later). However, it remains uncertain whether RHON1 complexes are also associated with lower abundant mRNAs. Notably, RIP-chip analysis using the tagged RNE did not detect any association with RNAs in favour of the idea that the HMW complex contains no RNA. Figure 7.Association of RHON1 with rRNA transcripts. (A) Stroma of rhon1TAP or WT (control) was subjected to tandem IP with Strep-Tactin column and HA matrix. For RIP-chip analysis, co-purified RNAs after the second purification step were labelled with Cy5 and RNAs of the flow through from the first purification step were labelled with Cy3. The enrichment ratios (FCy5:FCy3) were normalized between duplicate assays. The median normalized values for replicate spots from the RHON1TAP purifications were divided by those from WT data and plotted according to fragment number on the Arabidopsis chloroplast genome tiling microarray. Fragments are numbered according to chromosomal position. The data used to generate this figure are provided in Supplementary Table S3. (B) RIP-chip data were validated by slot-blot hybridization; 1/12 of the RNA purified from the IP flow throughs of the first purification steps (FT1) and 1/6 of the RNA from the IP eluates of the second purification step (E2) were applied to slot-blots and hybridized with the indicated probes. (C) The RNA-binding capacity of RHON1 was analysed by gel-shift assays using radiolabelled short RNAs of the 16 S and 23 S rRNAs as indicated. Increasing concentrations of 80, 400 and 800 nm (black triangles) of the purified GST-Rho-N-Strep protein consisting of the last 40 aa of RHON1, harbouring the Rho-N domain, were used for binding experiments. Association of RHON1 with rRNA transcripts. (A) Stroma of rhon1TAP or WT (control) was subjected to tandem IP with Strep-Tactin column and HA matrix. For RIP-chip analysis, co-purified RNAs after the second purification step were labelled with Cy5 and RNAs of the flow through from the first purification step were labelled with Cy3. The enrichment ratios (FCy5:FCy3) were normalized between duplicate assays. The median normalized values for replicate spots from the RHON1TAP purifications were divided by those from WT data and plotted according to fragment number on the Arabidopsis chloroplast genome tiling microarray. Fragments are numbered according to chromosomal position. The data used to generate this figure are provided in Supplementary Table S3. (B) RIP-chip data were validated by slot-blot hybridization; 1/12 of the RNA purified from the IP flow throughs of the first purification steps (FT1) and 1/6 of the RNA from the IP eluates of the second purification step (E2) were applied to slot-blots and hybridized with the indicated probes. (C) The RNA-binding capacity of RHON1 was analysed by gel-shift assays using radiolabelled short RNAs of the 16 S and 23 S rRNAs as indicated. Increasing concentrations of 80, 400 and 800 nm (black triangles) of the purified GST-Rho-N-Strep protein consisting of the last 40 aa of RHON1, harbouring the Rho-N domain, were used for binding experiments. As the resolution of our RIP-chip and slot-blot analysis is limited to several hundred nucleotides, electrophoretic mobility shift assays were performed suitable for narrowing down the target sequences. Furthermore, we aimed to specify if the RHON1 sub-complexes of >150 kDa also include mRNAs (CITATIONC) and if RHON1 itself has RNA-binding capacity. Moreover, we addressed the question which motif of RHON1 is responsible for binding. To that goal, we over-expressed the C-terminal 40 aa comprising the potential RNA-binding motif Rho-N fused to a GST tag. We randomly selected regions of the 16 S and 23 S rRNAs and the intergenic region of 23 S-4.5 S for the association assays, each ∼70–100 nucleotides in length. It seemed that the Rho-N motif binds to all investigated RNAs, although with quite different stringencies (CITATIONC). Most efficient binding was observed for the region 23 S-1 and the 3′-intergenic region of 23 S-4.5 S harbouring the processing site. This result confirms binding of RHON1 to certain regions of the 23 S rRNA as revealed by RIP-chip data and provides evidence that especially RNAs which are not efficiently processed in both rne and rhon1 mutants are recognized by RHON1 (CITATION and CITATION). Only weak binding was found for probes of 16 S-1, 16 S-2, 23 S-4 and the 5′-intergenic region of the 23 S-4.5 S (CITATIONC). As rRNAs are often highly structured, the low-binding capacity of RHON1 to certain fragments could result from preferential binding to ss RNA. To study the nucleic acid-binding properties of RHON1 to ss and double-stranded (ds) RNAs, we used a small RNA fragment of the 23 S-4.5 S intergenic region in a gel mobility shift assay (Supplementary Figure S5A). RHON1 bound the ssRNA fragment with a similarly low stringency as before, whereas the dsRNA fragment was not bound at all, indicating that RHON1 preferentially binds ss RNA. However, binding to this fragment was still weak and is consequently rather caused by low sequence specificity than by a dsRNA structure. Interestingly, RHON1 was not capable of binding to a ss 31-mer of the maize chloroplast petA 5′ UTR, which is commonly used for such analyses (CITATION) (Supplementary Figure S5B). Thus, RHON1 represents a novel RNA-binding protein recognizing specific regions of diverse RNAs by the Rho-N domain. Figure 8.RNA gel blot analyses of rRNAs in wild type, rne and rhon1. The rDNA gene cluster and all processing products (black lines) of rRNAs are shown down to scale. RNA gel blot analyses were performed using probes rrn16S, rrn23S, rrn4.5 S and rrn5S as indicated in grey boxes. A 2.7 kb transcript (dotted line and asterisks) is detected only in rhon1 and rne mutant lines. Equal loading was confirmed using methylene blue (M.B.) staining. The transcript lengths are indicated in kb. Figure 9.Processing of mRNAs and mRNA-binding studies. (A) Transcript levels of rbcL and petA are shown in WT Columbia (Col-0), rne-1, rne-2, WT Wassilewskija (Was) and rhon1; 10 μg leaf RNA of 3-week-old plants, grown on sucrose supplemented MS media, were loaded. (B) The RNA-binding capacity of the C-terminal 40 aa of RHON1 (Rho-N) motif to a radiolabelled RNA of the rbcL-accD intergenic region comprising the processing site was analysed by gel-shift assays. (C) Levels of petB transcripts in rne-1 and rhon1 were compared with those in wild-type accession Columbia. (D) The RNA-binding capacity of the Rho-N motif was examined using radioactive labelled RNAs of the petB 5′ and 3′ UTR. RNA gel blot analyses of rRNAs in wild type, rne and rhon1. The rDNA gene cluster and all processing products (black lines) of rRNAs are shown down to scale. RNA gel blot analyses were performed using probes rrn16S, rrn23S, rrn4.5 S and rrn5S as indicated in grey boxes. A 2.7 kb transcript (dotted line and asterisks) is detected only in rhon1 and rne mutant lines. Equal loading was confirmed using methylene blue (M.B.) staining. The transcript lengths are indicated in kb. Processing of mRNAs and mRNA-binding studies. (A) Transcript levels of rbcL and petA are shown in WT Columbia (Col-0), rne-1, rne-2, WT Wassilewskija (Was) and rhon1; 10 μg leaf RNA of 3-week-old plants, grown on sucrose supplemented MS media, were loaded. (B) The RNA-binding capacity of the C-terminal 40 aa of RHON1 (Rho-N) motif to a radiolabelled RNA of the rbcL-accD intergenic region comprising the processing site was analysed by gel-shift assays. (C) Levels of petB transcripts in rne-1 and rhon1 were compared with those in wild-type accession Columbia. (D) The RNA-binding capacity of the Rho-N motif was examined using radioactive labelled RNAs of the petB 5′ and 3′ UTR. Binding of RHON1 to ribosomal 16 S and 23 S rRNAs suggested a crucial involvement in processing and/or stability of rRNAs. To visualize the integrity of plastid rRNAs, we stained a blot of denatured wild type, rne and rhon1 RNAs with methylene blue revealing a marked reduction of both 16 S and 23 S rRNAs in rhon1 but not in rne-1 (CITATION). This again substantiates additional functions of RHON1, which are presumably not associated with RNE. We investigated the processing pattern of the rRNA transcription unit by performing RNA gel blot analysis. Accumulation of the 3.2 kb 23S–4.5 S dicistronic precursor transcript was observed in rne and even more in rhon1 mutants indicating loss of efficient endonucleolytic processing. This is accompanied by reduced levels of processed transcripts in rhon1 and to some extent in rne, such as the 0.5 kb, 1.1 kb and 1.8 kb RNAs originating from the 23 S rRNA. Hybridization with the 4.5 S probe revealed an additional band of 2.7 kb in both mutants, which is not present in the wild type or other rRNA processing mutants (CITATION). As this band could not be detected with the probe of the 23 S 5′ region, it still comprises sequences of the 4.5S rRNA but lacks 0.5 kb of the 5′ region (CITATIONC). The 5S probe could not detect any HMW band although levels of the monocistronic 5 S rRNA were reduced in rhon1, supporting that the 2.7 kb band does not comprise the 5 S rRNA. In accordance with the identified functional and physical association of RHON1 and RNE, a recent chloroplast genome-wide transcriptomic approach revealed close clustering of the rne-2 and rhon1 (formerly named crp102 and crp135, respectively) mutant transcriptomes within the group of mutants exerting quite similar global functions in plastid gene expression (CITATION). A comparison of the macroarray data with RNA gel-blot analysis has not only confirmed alterations in the mutants’ RNA transcript levels but also revealed dramatic changes in the pattern of chloroplast transcripts in both mutants when compared with the wild type. A prominent processing defect was observed for the rbcL-accD intergenic region (CITATIONA). Amounts of precursor transcripts of 8.5 and 5.4 kb of the rbcL transcription unit, comprising sequences of the downstream located genes accD, psaI, ycf4, cemA and petA, accumulate in both mutants (CITATIONA, Supplementary Figure S5B). The inefficiently processed rbcL-accD intercistronic region harbours a processing site (CITATION), which is also recognized by RHON1 as revealed by gel-shift analysis (CITATIONB). In the same way, processing of petB as part of the psbB transcription unit (CITATION) was altered in both mutants (CITATIONC). Again, RHON1 binds to the 5′ and 3′ UTR of the monocistronic petB transcript (CITATIOND), which shows reduced levels in both rne and rhon1. Therefore, RNE and RHON1 are not only required for efficient cleavage of rRNAs but also for processing and presumably stabilization of mRNAs. Notably, most of the processed transcripts are present in both mutants, indicating that processing basically takes place although with reduced efficiency. This finding is indicative for the presence of additional, redundant endonucleases, such as RNase J (CITATION). These endonucleases could also be supported by RHON1, thus partially replacing the catalytic function of RNE. Interestingly, all examined sites that are bound by RHON1 are also inefficiently processed. Further studies will have to prove that these sites are indeed identical with the RNE cleavage sites and elucidate the function of the RNE-containing HMW complex in this context. From our data, we assume that RHON1 facilitates efficient cleavage by RNE through determining sequence specificity and delivering target transcripts to the RNE–HMW complex.
!~MM~! Wild-type (WT) and mutant seedlings were grown for 3 weeks either on sucrose supplemented medium or on soil (CITATION). Both rne-1 and rne-2 mutant lines were in Columbia, rhon1 in Wassilewskija background. The initially characterized rne-1 was obtained from SALK (CITATION,CITATION). The rne-2 mutant originated from a collection of ethyl methyl sulfonate (EMS)-induced mutations (CITATION). The (transfer) T-DNA-tagged mutant line rhon1 was derived from the Feldman T-DNA collection (CITATION). Mapping populations were generated by crossing wild-type plants (accession Landsberg erecta) with heterozygous mutant plants as pollen donor and examined using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based polymorphic markers. The complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) of RNE (CITATION) and a reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR-generated RHON1 cDNA were cloned in frame into the TAP-tag vector (K. Meierhoff, unpublished data) using the Gateway technology and stbl2-competent cells (both Invitrogen). Heterozygous mutant plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). The cDNAs of RNE and RHON1 were cloned in frame into split-YFP vectors (CITATION) using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) and the same entry vector as for the TAP vector. Vectors were either transformed alone or co-transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). YFP fluorescence and chloroplast autofluorescence were visualized 48 h after incubation using a fluorescence microscope in ApoTome mode (Axio Imager, Zeiss) and identical exposure time for all samples. Analysis of chlorophyll autofluorescence of WT and mutants took place in the same manner (CITATION). Chlorophyll a fluorescence analyses and P700 redox measurements were performed as described (CITATION). For isolation of soluble proteins, wild-type and mutant leaves were homogenized in isolation medium (0.3 M sorbitol, 20 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid HEPES/KOH, 10 mM NaHCO3, 5 mM ethylene glycol-bis(2-aminoethylether)-N,N,N ′,N ′-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), 5 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, 5 mM MgCl2, pH 8.0) using a Warring blender after centrifugation at 1500g for 8 min with slow deceleration. Chloroplasts were lysed in radioimmunoprecipitation assay buffer (RIPA) buffer containing 1% NP-40, and after centrifugation at 18 000g, membrane proteins and soluble proteins were separated. In vivo labelling of plastid proteins with [35S]-Met/Cys was performed as described (CITATION). Immunoblotting and antibodies used were described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). For production of antibodies against RNE, the recombinant protein (CITATION) was injected into rabbits at different intervals (Pineda-Antikörper-Service). The proteins RNETAP and RHON1TAP were identified using a monoclonal anti-HA antibody (Anti-HA-Peroxidase high affinity, Roche). Soluble chloroplast extracts of ∼30 g of rneTAP or rhon1TAP plants were prepared as described earlier and loaded onto a Strep-Tactin column (IBA) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The combined eluates were concentrated using Amicon Ultra filtration devices (Millipore) and either separated on Clear-Native (CN) and sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) gels for immunoblot analyses or used for identification of interaction partners by mass spectrometry (Mass Spectrometry Unit, Department Biology I, LMU Munich). Co-IPs for RIP-chip analyses were performed in tandem using first the Strep-Tactin column and then an HA-matrix-assisted (Roche) procedure. For two-dimensional (2D) analysis of the HMW complex, Co-IP-purified and concentrated complexes were either treated with 1% RNase One (Promega) or loaded directly onto native 5–12% acrylamide gradient gels with a reduced Coomassie content (0.002%) when compared with Blue Native gels (CITATION). After electrophoresis, lanes of the CN gels were denatured with SDS and β-mercaptoethanol and run on the second dimension in SDS-polyacrylamide gel (PAGE) with 10% acrylamide. Labelling of RHON1TAP-co-purified RNA and its hybridization on the Arabidopsis chloroplast microarray were carried out as described previously (CITATION). Control experiments were performed using wild-type extracts. Fluorescence data and probes can be found in Supplementary Table S3. For slot-blot hybridizations, RNA was isolated as for RIP-chip analysis and 1/12 of the flow through and 1/6 of the pellet were spotted onto nylon membranes and hybridized with the probes indicated. The last 120 nucleotides of RHON1 encoding the Rho-N motif were cloned into the pET41b+ vector (Novagen) and expressed in E. coli cells (Bl21pLysS, Novagen) using standard conditions. Precipitated cells were lysed by sonification in Strep-washing buffer supplemented with 10% v/v Sarkosyl 150 min after induction of expression. After 1:5 dilution with Strep-washing buffer supplemented with 2% Triton-X-100 and 0.1% 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS), cell extracts were incubated for 1 h in Strep-Tactin-Macroprep and subsequently treated with Strep-washing buffer. The glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Rho-N-Strep-fusion protein was eluted with Strep-elution buffer supplemented with 30% glycerol. Buffers and Macroprep were obtained from IBA. RNA-radiolabelling and gel shift assays were performed as described (CITATION,CITATION) using primers listed in Supplementary Table S1. RNAs were incubated with increasing protein concentrations (0, 80, 400 and 800 nM) in a buffer containing 40 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 0.1 mg/ml bovine serum albumin (BSA), 4 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and 0.5 mg/ml Heparin at 25°C for 10 min. For in vitro studies, a truncated RNE protein comprising amino acids (aa) 284–996 and recombinant forms obtained by site-directed mutagenesis were expressed in E. coli, purified as described (CITATION) and detected with His6-specific antibodies. Recombinant RNE-2 proteins were lacking the same six amino acids (688–693) as rne-2 mutants. An S1-modified RNE was constructed missing aa 422–532. Numbers of aa are indicated according to the full-length sequence. Cleavage activity assays with recombinant proteins were performed as described (CITATION). RNA extraction, labelling of DNA probes and gel blot analyses were performed as described (CITATION). RT-PCRs were performed using the One-Step RT-PCR kit (Roche).
