!~ABS~! Rhomboids are intra-membrane serine proteases whose sequences are found in nearly all organisms. They are involved in a variety of biological functions in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Localization assays revealed that two Arabidopsis thaliana rhomboid-like proteases (AtRBL), AtRBL8 and AtRBL9, are targeted to the chloroplast. Using transgenic plants expressing epitope-tagged AtRBL9, we localized AtRBL9 to the chloroplast inner envelope membrane, with both its N- and C-termini facing the stroma. Mass spectrometry analyses confirmed this localization, and suggested that this is also the case for AtRBL8. Both are proteins of very low abundance. The results of size-exclusion chromatography implied that AtRBL9 forms homo-oligomers. In search of a putative function, a comparative proteomic analysis was performed on wild-type and double-knockout plants, lacking both AtRBL8 and AtRBL9, using the iTRAQ method. Of 180 envelope proteins, the level of only a few was either increased or decreased in the mutant line. One of the latter, allene oxide synthase, is involved in jasmonic acid biosynthesis. This observation provides an explanation for the recently reported aberration in flower morphology that is associated with the loss of AtRBL8.
!~RES~! In order to identify and characterize chloroplast rhomboid-like proteases, we searched for putative Arabidopsis thaliana rhomboid-like (AtRBL) proteins using protein blast in the National Center for Biotechnology Information server. Our final list of putative AtRBLs was composed strictly of proteins containing the conserved residues asparagine, serine and histidine in the appropriate positions, with the serine located within the conserved GASG motif (CITATION; Figure S1), on the assumption that such proteins will be active (Table 1). Once the set of putatively active AtRBLs was established, we searched for predicted chloroplast-targeted proteins using subcellular localization prediction software. There have been cases of ambiguity in the targeting signals, thus a mitochondrial-targeting prediction was also considered as a possible chloroplast-targeting prediction. The strongest chloroplast-targeting prediction consensus was found for AtPARL, AtRBL1, AtRBL8 and AtRBL9, but a weaker or no consensus was found for AtRBL2–6 (Table 1). P, plastid; M, mitochondria; O, other. The putatively active AtRBLs are listed. Loci and protein IDs correspond to data retrieved from the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. aNomenclature according to Lemberg and Freeman (2007). At the onset of our study, experimental data regarding rhomboid localization in Arabidopsis was available only for AtRBL1 and AtRBL2, which were both found to localize to the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). Thus, we determined the localization of AtPARL, AtRBL3, AtRBL8 and AtRBL9. To this end, we fused the cDNA sequences encoding the N-termini of these proteins (containing their transit peptides) to that of GFP, transiently expressed the chimeric genes in Arabidopsis protoplasts, and monitored the accumulation of GFP using confocal microscopy (Figure 1). AtPARL–GFP co-localized with the mitochondrial reporter Mitotracker, similarly to the pattern for the mitochondrial control ATPsyn–GFP (a fusion of GFP to the ATP synthase β-subunit transit peptide), suggesting mitochondrial localization of AtPARL (in agreement with the results of CITATION). AtRBL8–GFP and AtRBL9–GFP co-localized with chlorophyll autofluorescence, similar to the chloroplast control SSU–GFP (a fusion of GFP to the Rubisco small subunit transit peptide), suggesting their chloroplast localization (in agreement with the results of CITATION and the recently published study by CITATION). AtRBL3–GFP co-localized neither with Mitotracker nor with chlorophyll autofluorescence. However, it showed an expression pattern that was distinct from that of GFP alone, suggesting it is localized elsewhere than the cystosol (GFP alone), mitochondria or chloroplasts. The chloroplast localization of AtRBL8 and 9 was further confirmed using chloroplast import assays of full-length in vitro synthesized proteins into isolated pea chloroplasts (Figure S2). Although import efficiency is low (an expected phenomenon given their hydrophobicity; CITATION), it is apparent that both AtRBL8 and 9 were imported into chloroplasts, underwent maturation, and partitioned with the membrane fraction. [[FIGURE]] To examine the sub-chloroplast membrane localization of AtRBL8 and AtRBL9 in vivo, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing C-terminally HA-tagged proteins (AtRBL–HA); only the AtRBL9–HA transgenic lines accumulated detectable levels of the protein. As expected, AtRBL9–HA was detected in total protein extracts and isolated chloroplasts of both AtRBL9–HA1 and AtRBL9–HA5 lines, and was not detected in wild-type (WT) plants (Figure 2a). To determine its sub-chloroplast localization, intact chloroplasts were isolated, lysed and fractionated into thylakoid and envelope membranes. Samples were immunoblotted using marker antibodies for thylakoids (OEE33) and envelopes (CAC3 and Tic40). Consistent with their known localization, OEE33 was detected only in thylakoids whereas CAC3 and Tic40 were found exclusively in the envelope (Figure 2b). The AtRBL9–HA distribution pattern follows that of the envelope proteins. [[FIGURE]] When envelope preparations of various plant lines were probed with an AtRBL9-specific antibody (Figure 2c), a band was detected at the expected size in WT, the AtRBL8-2 knockout mutant and the AtRBL9–HA1 transgenic line, but not in an AtRBL9 knockout line (see description of knockout lines below). The band detected by the AtRBL9 antibody in the AtRBL9–HA1 transgenic line was the same size as the one detected by the HA antibody, further confirming that AtRBL9 localizes to the envelope. Interestingly, these results are consistent with the results of a proteomic analysis of chloroplast envelopes (CITATION). As the vast majority of outer envelope proteins are not subjected to maturation (CITATION), whereas both AtRBL8 and AtRBL9 underwent maturation during protein import (Figure S1), these results suggest that RBL9 localizes to the inner envelope membrane. To determine the topology of AtRBL9 in the inner envelope membrane, we performed protease protection assays in intact chloroplasts. This method is based on the differential permeability of the outer envelope membrane (OEM) to trypsin and thermolysin; thermolysin cannot penetrate the OEM, and therefore degrades only proteins on the outer surface of the chloroplast, whereas trypsin penetrates the OEM and degrades proteins located both on the outer surface of the chloroplast and in the inter-membrane space (CITATION). Intact chloroplasts isolated from AtRBL9–HA plants were treated with both proteases, and the degradation pattern of AtRBL9–HA was monitored (Figure 3a). PDV2, an outer envelope protein facing the cytosol (CITATION), was efficiently degraded in the presence of either thermolysin or trypsin, whereas OEP37, an outer envelope protein (CITATION), was resistant to thermolysin but degraded in the presence of trypsin. A similar pattern was observed for APG1, an inner envelope protein whose soluble domain faces the inter-membrane space (CITATION). The OEP37 and APG1 degradation patterns confirmed that trypsin did indeed penetrate the OEM, and was also active in the inter-membrane space. FtsH1, a thylakoid membrane protein facing the stroma (CITATION), was mostly resistant to both proteases, suggesting that trypsin, at the concentration used, did not substantially penetrate the inner envelope membrane. In the presence of 2% Triton X-100, which disrupts membrane compartmentalization, FtsH1 was fully degraded by trypsin, but not by thermolysin. [[FIGURE]] The HA signal was resistant to thermolysin treatment; even in the presence of 2% Triton X-100, only slight processing was observed (Figure 3a). The signal also resisted trypsin at the high concentration of 400 μg ml−1, but was degraded when detergent was added. Although it is not clear why both FtsH1 and the HA signal resisted thermolysin treatment in the presence of detergent, the HA degradation pattern in the presence of either protease best resembles that of FtsH1, suggesting that the HA tag faces the stroma. To rule out the possibility that the HA signal was resistant to trypsin due to embedding within the membrane, intact and hypotonically lysed chloroplasts were treated with increasing trypsin concentrations (Figure 3b). Chloroplast lysis reduces the protective effect of membrane compartmentalization, but does not affect membrane embedding of the proteins. Comparing the protection pattern of Tic40 (an inner envelope protein whose soluble domain faces the stroma, CITATION) and the HA signal suggested that their sensitivity to trypsin increases following chloroplast lysis (compare lanes 3 and 4). Both Tic40 and the HA signal appeared to slightly degrade when intact chloroplasts were treated (Figure 3a); however, when hypotonically lysed chloroplasts were treated, degradation was far more efficient (Figure 3b). These results confirm that the HA tag is protected from trypsin due to membrane compartmentalization and not membrane embedding, and that, like Tic40, it faces the stroma. As AtRBL9 is predicted to contain six transmembrane helices (CITATION) and was tagged at its C-terminus, it may be concluded that AtRBL9 is located in the inner envelope membrane with both its N- and C-termini facing the stroma. We have often noted that the HA antibody recognizes more than one band (e.g. Figure 3). This is reminiscent of similar observations in bacterial rhomboids (e.g. CITATION). Most characteristic was the additional band at approximately 50 kDa, and higher-molecular-weight bands were also observed in some cases. The predicted size of the mature protein expressed from the AtRBL9–HA construct is 27 kDa, suggesting that the higher-molecular-weight bands may represents oligomers that are too hydrophobic to dissociate even under the high reducing conditions of SDS–PAGE, similar to the case of the D1 and D2 proteins of the photosystem II complex (CITATION). To assess the size of the potential oligomer, intact chloroplasts were isolated from transgenic plants, solubilized using the mild detergent n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside (DDM) and fractionated on a Superose 6 column. The relevant fractions (in which the AtRBL–HA protein was identified) were pooled, concentrated and fractionated on a Sephacryl 200 column (Figure 4a). Analysis of the obtained fractions using the HA antibody (Figure 4b) revealed that the peak of AtRBL9–HA eluted at a volume corresponding to a size of approximately 130 kDa (Figure 4a). As the mean size of DDM micelles is 50 kDa, the AtRBL9–HA oligomer has a size of 80 kDa. [[FIGURE]] In immunoprecipitation experiments performed on intact chloroplasts solubilized by DDM, followed by SDS–PAGE, tryptic digestion and MS peptide fingerprint analysis, most identified peptides belonged to peptides of AtRBL9–HA, suggesting that it does not form a stable complex with any other protein (Figure S3a,b). AtRBL9 peptides were recovered not only from the gel piece corresponding to the monomer size, but also from pieces corresponding to the high-molecular-weight bands in the immunoblots. The sequence coverage map of the recovered peptides also suggested that processing of AtRBL9 occurs at or closely downstream of the site predicted by the ChloroP program (Figure S3c). Taken together, the monomer size of 27 kDa and the observed 80 kDa complex imply that AtRBL9–HA may form a homo-oligomer of three to four subunits. However, we do not know at this stage whether oligomerization of AtRBL9 has any functional significance. To determine the physiological role of AtRBL8 and AtRBL9, corresponding T-DNA insertion lines were obtained, backcrossed to WT, and crossed between themselves to produce double knockouts (see Figure S4). Under all growth conditions tested (standard short day, standard long day, long day at 27°C, long day under outdoor light intensities varying between 70 and 2500 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 at 16, 22, 28 and 34°C. Temperatures apply to outdoor light intensities), these single and double knockout plants presented a WT phenotype (e.g. Figure S4d). Additional characteristics of the knockout lines such as germination rates, total protein content, total chlorophyll content and their photosystem II activity, measured by chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm), were also the same as in WT (Figure S5). We therefore used a comparative proteomic approach, and searched for envelope proteins whose level is affected by loss of AtRBL8 and AtRBL9 (line 877). A total of 812 peptides were identified and quantified, allowing for the quantitative comparison of 180 proteins (Table S2). Localization analysis of the identified proteins using the At_Chloro database (CITATION), showed that only 19 of the 180 identified proteins are not envelope residents, suggesting relatively low cross-contamination of the analyzed envelope fractions by other compartments (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] Protein targets for rhomboid cleavage are expected to be more abundant in line 877 compared to WT. This was observed for 11 proteins, with a reduction of >50% compared with the WT. These proteins are thus candidate substrates of chloroplast rhomboid proteases (Table 2). For six of these proteins, not all detected peptides were affected uniformly. In three of them, the levels of peptides derived from the N-terminus were lower in the WT than in the mutant, and for three proteins, the levels of C-terminal peptides were reduced. Apparently, the cleavage products that were generated from the target protein by rhomboid cleavage were not equally detectable. This may be explained by differences in the stability of the cleavage products, or differential release of either the N- or the C-terminal cleavage product from the envelope. Probable direct targets for limited proteolysis by chloroplast rhomboids include Tic21, FAD7, CAC3, PORC, APG1 and an amino oxidase family protein (Table 2). For the remaining five proteins, peptides from the entire length of the protein were similarly affected, i.e. were more abundant in the mutant than in the WT. These proteins may also be direct targets of rhomboid proteases, and thus more abundant in the rhomboid loss-of-function mutant. The most likely candidates in this group, proteins whose level is ca. 2-fold higher in the mutant compared to WT, are PORB, FtsH11 and an aldo/keto reductase family protein (Table 2). Alternatively, an unknown regulatory process may have been affected in the mutant resulting in accumulation of these proteins. For 13 proteins, the opposite effect was observed, i.e. they were more abundant in the WT and showed a reduction of >50% in mutant line 877 (Table 3). For six of these proteins, all detected peptides showed a similar decrease in the mutant. These proteins are not likely to be substrates of rhomboids but may be indirectly affected by rhomboid activity via a regulatory protein that is subject to rhomboid cleavage in the mutant. They include a MATH domain protein, OEP6 and 16-1, AOS, RCA, and an unknown protein (Table 3). For seven of the 13 proteins, only peptides derived from either the N- or the C-terminus were reduced in the mutant, rather than the entire length of the protein. As these proteins cannot be direct targets of rhomboids proteases, because of the lower level of some peptides in the mutant, the differential accumulation of different parts of the protein remains unexplained. To follow up the iTRAQ results, we performed an immunoblot analysis on selected proteins from the two representative groups (877 > WT and 877 < WT). APG1, which contains a single transmembrane domain, similar to known rhomboid substrates, was not affected by the loss of AtRBL8 and/or AtRBL9 (Figure S6). Similarly, the level and size of Tic40, which has been implied to be processed by the At1g74130 gene product (CITATION), were not affected (Figure S6). However, the AOS protein displayed a pattern similar to the one observed in the iTRAQ experiments, i.e. WT plants accumulated 60% more AOS compared to the double knockout plants (Figure 6a,b), confirming that AOS is indeed indirectly affected by the loss of AtRBL8 and/or AtRBL9. Interestingly, this effect on AOS abundance is not at the transcript level, as the AOS transcript abundance in WT and the double knockout is similar (Figure 6c). These results establish a link between the presence of chloroplast rhomboid proteases in the envelope and accumulation of AOS, an enzyme in the jasmonic acid biosynthesis pathway that resides in the same membrane. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Previously published putative Arabidopsis rhomboid-like protein sequences (CITATION) were used for a blast search of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome database using the blastp algorithm. The retrieved sequences were then aligned to known rhomboid sequences using multalin software (http://multalin.toulouse.inra.fr/multalin/multalin.html; CITATION). Sequences lacking the structurally and functionally important conserved residues were eliminated. Subcellular localization was predicted using ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/; CITATION), TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATION), Predotar (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/predotar/predotar.html; CITATION) and PSORT (http://psort.hgc.jp/form.html). Arabidopsis thaliana plants, ecotype Columbia-0, were grown on Kekkila peat (Kekkila, http://www.kekkila.com) at 22°C and 16 h illumination of 90–120 μmol photons m−2 sec−1. Transgenic lines expressing AtRBL9 fused to the HA epitope were generated by cloning relevant sequences into vector pCB302-3 (CITATION), and transformation into WT plants using the floral-dip method (CITATION). T-DNA insertion lines for AtRBL8 (SALK lines N578681 and SALK N537037) and AtRBL9 (SAIL line N842060) were obtained from the Salk Institute (http://www.salk.edu/). Both knockout lines were backcrossed with WT three times, and then were crossed with each other to generate a double knockout. The cDNA sequences encoding the N-termini of the described proteins were fused to GFP in the pTH2GFP expression vector (CITATION), and transiently expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis protoplasts, as previously described (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was visualized using confocal laser scanning microscope LSM 510 (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/) in multi-channel mode. Mitochondria were detected by Mitotracker Orange CMTMRos staining (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). Images were processed using Zeiss LSM 510 image browser software. Total RNA was extracted from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants using a standard procedure. Reverse transcription was performed using RevertAidTM M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com). The quantitative PCR reaction was performed using SYBR® Green technology on the MX3000P system (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com). For each genotype, at least four independent biological replicates were analysed in triplicate. Relative expression of AOS was quantified using the relative standard method, with ACT2 (At3g18780) as the normalizer transcript. Total protein extracts were obtained by grinding leaf tissue in 0.2 m Tris/HCl pH 6.8, 5 m urea, 8% SDS, 10% glycerol, 20%β-mercaptoethanol, followed by incubation at 40°C for 5 min. The extract was cleared by centrifugation at 13 000 g for 15 min. Intact chloroplasts were prepared from rosette leaves of 8-week-old plants as previously described (CITATION). Intact chloroplasts were further fractionated as described by CITATION. For the protease protection assay, intact chloroplasts (75 μg chlorophyll) were treated with thermolysin (type X; Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) or trypsin (Boehringer Mannheim, http://www.roche-applied-science.com) at the indicated concentrations in HS buffer (200 μl, 50 mm HEPES/KOH pH 8.0, 0.3 m sorbitol) in the presence of 0.8 mm CaCl2 and, when indicated, 2% Triton X-100. The reaction was performed on ice for 10 min and quenched by addition of HS buffer containing 55 mm EDTA and one tablet of mini protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, http://www.roche.com). In the trypsin treatment, the quenching buffer was supplemented with 7.5–75 μg trypsin inhibitor (type I-S from soybean; Sigma), based on the amount of trypsin in the reaction. Following protease treatment, intact chloroplasts were re-isolated on a 40% Percoll cushion (Sigma) and re-suspended in HS buffer. Samples were separated on 12–15% polyacrylamide in Tris/glycine buffer unless indicated otherwise, and electroblotted onto nitrocellulose membrane, or, for HA detection, polyvinylidene fluoride membrane. Antibodies used and their dilutions were: HA (Sigma, monoclonal), 1:1500; OEE33 (CITATION), 1:10 000; GST–FtsH1 (CITATION), 1:5000; Tic40 (Agrisera, http://www.agrisera.com) 1:1000; AtRBL9 (Agrisera), 1:750; CAC3 (CITATION), 1:20 000; PDV2 (CITATION), 1:3000; OEP37 (CITATION), 1:1000; APG1 (CITATION), 1:500. All blots were developed using enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) reagents (Sigma) for horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies. Envelope samples were subjected to iTRAQ analysis as follows. Four protein pellets (50 μg each) were re-suspended separately in 8 m urea in 100 mm ammonium bicarbonate. The samples were reduced using 2.8 mm dithiothreitol (60°C for 30 min), modified using 8.8 mm iodoacetamide in 100 mm ammonium bicarbonate at room temperature for 30 min, and digested in 2 m urea, 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate using modified trypsin (Promega, http://www.promega.com) at a 1:50 enzyme:substrate ratio, overnight at 37°C, followed by a second digestion for 4 h. The tryptic peptides were desalted using C18 tips (Harvard Inc., www.harvardapparatus.com), dried and resuspended in 100 mm HEPES (pH 7.3). The iTRAQ™ reagent was brought to room temperature and mixed with ethanol. After vortexing and spinning, each of the reagents was transferred to a sample tube (30:70 sample:reagent ratio). The tubes were incubated at room temperature for 1 h. All four iTRAQ™ reagent-labeled samples were combined, purified on C18, and resuspended in 0.1% formic acid. The combined labeled peptides (60 μg) were separated in an online 2D chromatography protocol (MuDPiT, multidimensional protein identification technology, see http://www.proteome.soton.ac.uk/mudpit.htm). First, the peptides were loaded on a 15 mm BioX-SCX column (Thermo Scientific, http://www.thermoscientific.com) and eluted using salt steps of 0, 30, 100, 200 and 500 mm ammonium formate in 5% acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid, pH 3. The eluted peptides were further resolved by capillary reverse-phase chromatography (75 μm internal diameter, 20 cm fused-silica capillaries, self-packed with 3 μm Reprosil-Aqua C18). The peptides were eluted using a 125 min gradient (5–40% acetonitrile containing 0.1% formic acid), followed by a wash step of 95% acetonitrile for 15 min. The flow rate was approximately 0.2 μl min−1 and the peptides were analysed using an Orbitrap mass spectrometer Thermo-Fischer, http://www.thermofisher.com). Mass spectrometry was performed in positive mode using a repetitively full MS scan followed by collision-induced dissociation and higher-energy collision dissociation of the three most dominant ions selected from the first MS scan. The mass spectrometry data were analyzed and compared using sequest 3.31 (Thermo-Fischer) searching the ‘PLANTS’ part of the NCBInr database (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). All these procedures were performed at the Smoler Proteomic Research Center (The Technion, Haifa, Israel). Intact chloroplasts were isolated from transgenic plants. Protein (1 mg) from the intact chloroplasts was pelleted by centrifugation (10,000 × g, 5 min at 4°C) and resuspended in 125 μl buffer A (100 mm Tris pH8.0, 50 mm NaCl), and then supplemented with 125 μl buffer B [100 mm Tris pH 8.0, 50 mm NaCl, 2% DDM Sigma), 2× protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche)]. The suspension was incubated on ice for 15 min with occasional vortexing for complete solubilization. Following solubilization, the sample was ultracentrifuged for 30 min at 29 000 g. The resulting supernatant was fractionated using a Superose 6 column (Amersham) in an AKTA explorer instrument (Amersham, http://www.gelifesciences.com). The column was first equilibrated in buffer A, then loaded with sample and eluted with buffer A supplemented with 0.1% DDM at a rate of 200 μl min−1. Fractions (300 μl) were collected, of which 45 μl were used for SDS–PAGE. Fractions containing the HA signal were pooled and concentrated to a volume of 300 μl using an Amicon Ultracel 5K ultracentrifugal filter device (Millipore, http://www.millipore.com), supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail and fractionated again on a Sephacryl S-200 column (Amersham). Elution of protein was performed using buffer A supplemented with 0.05% DDM. The protein markers used with both columns were apoprotein (443 kDa), alcohol dehydrogenase (150 kDa), BSA (66 kDa) and carbonic anhydrase (29 kDa; all purchased from Sigma).
