!~ABS~! Meristems retain the ability to divide throughout the life cycle of plants, which can last for over 1000 years in some species. Furthermore, the germline is not laid down early during embryogenesis but originates from the meristematic cells relatively late during development. Thus, accurate cell cycle regulation is of utmost importance to avoid the accumulation of mutations during vegetative growth and reproduction. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes two homologs of the replication licensing factor CDC10 Target1 (CDT1), and overexpression of CDT1a stimulates DNA replication. Here, we have investigated the respective functions of Arabidopsis CDT1a and CDT1b. We show that CDT1 proteins have partially redundant functions during gametophyte development and are required for the maintenance of genome integrity. Furthermore, CDT1-RNAi plants show endogenous DNA stress, are more tolerant than the wild type to DNA-damaging agents, and show constitutive induction of genes involved in DNA repair. This DNA stress response may be a direct consequence of reduced CDT1 accumulation on DNA repair or may relate to the ability of CDT1 proteins to form complexes with DNA polymerase ε, which functions in DNA replication and in DNA stress checkpoint activation. Taken together, our results provide evidence for a crucial role of Arabidopsis CDT1 proteins in genome stability.
!~RES~! We reported previously that simultaneous silencing of CDT1a and CDT1b resulted in severe developmental defects and that cdt1b null mutants are phenotypically identical to the wild type (CITATION). CDT1a and CDT1b have very similar expression patterns, suggesting that they could be functionally redundant (CITATION). To elucidate the respective functions of the two genes, we searched for cdt1a mutants in publicly available mutant collections. We found an insertion in CDT1a in the GABI-Kat collection (GABI_025G08). This mutant line harbors two insertions, one in the fourth exon of CDT1a (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) and the second 577 bp upstream of the start codon of HexoKinase Like3 (HKL3) (At4g37840), which encodes a putative hexokinase. Using a segregating population, the T-DNA insertion in CDT1a was separated from the second T-DNA (see Methods). For three lines, no plant harboring the HKL3 mutation was found, but all contained the CDT1a insertion, indicating that the parent line was mutated only for CDT1a. The presence of a sulfadiazine resistance maker in the GABI-Kat line allowed us to perform a segregation analysis of the T-DNA. Interestingly, the proportion of sulfadiazine-resistant plants in these lines was lower than expected (between one in four and one in three), and all cdt1a mutants identified in this first generation were hemizygous for the mutation (n = 12; hereafter referred to as cdt1a/+). These plants developed normally but formed short siliques containing aborted ovules (Figure 1). We counted normal and aborted seeds in siliques of seven plants (four siliques per plant) and found 49.8% aborted seeds. To confirm that this phenotype was due to the insertion in the CDT1a gene, we performed backcrosses. In the progeny, all sulfadiazine-resistant plants carried an insertion in CDT1a, and all showed a reduction in seed production. Furthermore, the mutant could be rescued by a construct encompassing a hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged version of CDT1a driven by its own promoter: cdt1a/+ plants were transformed with the pCDT1a:CDT1a-HA construct, and phenotypically wild-type plants homozygous for the cdt1a mutation expressing the HA-tagged protein could be recovered (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the cdt1a mutation was lethal during gametophyte development or during embryogenesis, we analyzed the transmission of the cdt1a mutation after self-pollination or reciprocal crosses. To follow the cdt1a mutation, we analyzed sulfadiazine resistance. Twelve plants were used for this analysis, seeds from three siliques obtained by each cross or self-fertilization were pooled, and ∼40 seeds were sown on selective medium (Table 1). When cdt1a/+ mutants were used as female, no sulfadiazine-resistant plants could be obtained, indicating that the mutation is not transmitted through the female side. When cdt1a/+ mutants were allowed to self-fertilize or used as male, ∼31 and 25% of their progeny were resistant to sulfadiazine. The difference between these two segregation values is not statistically significant (Student’s t test; P > 0.05). However, these segregation values are significantly lower than the expected 50% if the mutation was transmitted normally via pollen grains (χ2 = 6.48). Hence, segregation analyses indicated that disruption of CDT1a affects female gametophyte development and, to a lesser extent, pollen grain development. To confirm these observations and to determine which step of gametophyte development was affected by the cdt1a mutation, we tested pollen grain viability by Alexander staining and observed developing ovules from cleared siliques of cdt1a/+ mutants. As shown in Figure 2A, cdt1a/+ mutants show a proportion of green pollen grains after Alexander staining, indicating that they are not viable. We estimated that ∼15% (n = 200) of pollen grains were aborted in the mutant. 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining on flower buds at various developmental stages revealed that meiospore formation was normal, but pollen grains stopped their development either before the first or second mitosis (Figures 2B and 2C). In developing siliques, we found that about half of the ovules contained normally developing embryos, whereas the other half appeared to have aborted. Closer examination revealed that half of the embryo sacs never reached maturity and stopped their development after one or two mitoses, giving rise to embryo sacs containing one to three nuclei (Figure 3). Consistently, CDT1-RNAi lines displayed similar defects during gametophyte development (data not shown). Taken together, these results suggest that CDT1a is strictly required for female gametophyte development and plays a role during male gametophyte development, although a majority of pollen grains harboring the cdt1a mutation develop normally. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Normal development of pollen grains lacking CDT1a may be allowed by the presence of CDT1b. To test this hypothesis, we obtained cdt1a/+cdt1b−/− sesquimutants and analyzed the transmission of the cdt1a mutation in their progeny. We found that ∼5% of plants inherited the cdt1a mutation (n = 1857) versus 30% in the cdt1a/+ mutant (n = 1344). Thus, the cdt1b mutation significantly reduced the transmission of the cdt1a mutation (χ2 = 27.15). Observation of developing pollen grains revealed a higher proportion of aborted pollen in the sesquimutant. Flow cytometry analysis of the pollen DNA content in the wild type and mutants did not allow us to detect a difference between cdt1a/+ and wild-type plants: pollen isolated from flowers before dehiscence distributed in a single narrow peak corresponding to three cellular pollen grains, with a minor peak toward the lower DNA contents corresponding to cell debris and empty pollen grains. However, the distribution of pollen grains from cdt1a/+cdt1b plants displayed a shoulder on the peak toward lower DNA content, suggesting that developing pollen grains failed to complete S-phase (see Supplemental Figures 2 and 3 online). However, we cannot rule out the possibility that the lower fluorescence observed could be due to the degeneration of nonviable pollen grains. This result indicates that CDT1a and CDT1b play partially redundant functions during pollen grain development but that pollen grains can be viable in the absence of both genes. By contrast, CDT1a is strictly required for female gametophyte development, suggesting that some of its functions cannot be taken over by CDT1b. The observation that a proportion of pollen grains have a reduced DNA content in cdt1a/+cdt1b mutants suggests that genome integrity is compromised in the absence of CDT1. Indeed, upon closer examination, we noticed that ∼10% (n = 270) of the sulfadiazine-resistant plantlets in the progeny of cdt1a/+cdt1b plants were smaller than their siblings (Figure 4A). When these plants were transferred to soil and allowed to grow, they displayed a variety of phenotypic alterations (summarized in Table 2; Figures 4B to 4E). Out of 36 plants, 21 grew and developed like their cdt1a/+cdt1b siblings, but 15 displayed a variety of developmental defects: in the most extreme cases, plants had a drastically reduced stature and deformed leaves, as shown in Figures 4B to 4E. Such a frequency of abnormal plants was never observed in the progeny of ecotype Columbia (Col-0), cdt1a/+, or cdt1b plants, indicating that these anomalies were a consequence of the loss of both CDT1 genes in pollen grains. Most of these abnormal plants were almost completely sterile, but some produced a few seeds and gave rise to both aberrant and wild-type–looking plants in their progeny. Flow cytometry analysis of the DNA content in the second generation of aberrant plants (n = 40) allowed us to identify four aneuploid plants with a genome size either 10% larger or 10% smaller than the wild type. This technique did not reveal any modification in the genome size of other plants but would not allow the detection of small variations. These results indicate that the loss of both CDT1 genes results in severe modifications of the genome during pollen grain formation. [[FIGURE]] To gain further insight into the function of CDT1 proteins in the maintenance of genome integrity in sporophytic tissues, we investigated the consequences of reduced CDT1 accumulation in plantlets, taking advantage of the CDT1-RNAi lines because homozygous cdt1a mutants cannot be obtained. We reported previously that CDT1-RNAi plants incorporate less bromodeoxyuridine (an analog of thymidine that incorporates into replicated DNA during S-phase) than the wild type and have smaller leaves due to a reduction of both cell expansion and cell proliferation (CITATION). Furthermore, the root tip mitotic index is reduced in these plants (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). In addition to this reduction of proliferative activity, CDT1-RNAi lines display enhanced endoreduplication; these two features have been reported in several mutants subjected to endogenous DNA stress (reviewed in CITATION). Many of these mutants exhibit enhanced expression of Cyclin B1;1 (CYCB1;1); therefore, we monitored the expression of CYCB1;1 in CDT1-RNAi plantlets. Expression of CYCB1;1 was found to be increased CDT1-RNAi plantlets and in cdt1a/+cdt1b but not cdt1b mutants (Figure 5A). This observation suggests that reduced expression of CDT1 genes results in DNA stress. To confirm this, the expression of several genes involved in various DNA repair pathways was monitored in wild-type and CDT1-RNAi plants. As shown in Figure 5B, the expression of Ku70, PARP2, RAD51, BRCA1, and XRCC4 was found to be increased in CDT1-RNAi lines. This increase was low (between 1.3- and 2.3-fold depending on the gene) but reproducible, providing evidence for endogenous DNA stress induced by reduced CDT1 accumulation. [[FIGURE]] As an independent test for the presence of DNA stress, the DNA ploidy distribution was measured in the cdt1a/+ and cdt1a/+cdt1b mutants by flow cytometry. Twelve-day-old cdt1a/+ and cdt1a/+cdt1b plantlets showed a clear increase in endoreduplication in the first leaf compared with the wild-type (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). This increase was also observed in whole plantlets for cdt1a/+cdt1b mutants but not for cdt1a/+ mutants (data not shown) and was not observed in cauline leaves of mature plants, indicating that increased endoreduplication is transient in cdt1a/+ and cdt1a/+cdt1b mutants and occurs only at early stages of development. Indeed, all viable cdt1 mutants still possess one wild-type copy of CDT1a. CDT1-RNAi lines, therefore, are likely to accumulate lower levels of CDT1 proteins than the mutant throughout their vegetative development. Taken together, these results support the view that reduced CDT1 accumulation results in DNA stress in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Genome integrity is under the control of several checkpoints during the cell cycle. In Arabidopsis, WEE1 activation has been proposed to govern DNA stress–dependent cell cycle arrest (CITATION), and double-strand breaks have been reported to activate CYCB1;1 expression and endoreduplication in a SOG1-dependent but WEE1-independent manner (CITATION). We tried to determine which of these checkpoints was activated in CDT1-RNAi plants. We first introduced the CDT1-RNAi construct in the wee1 background. Endoreduplication in plants displaying the CDT1-RNAi phenotype was measured in eight wee1-2 homozygous mutant lines and compared with wee1-2/+ hemizygous siblings as well as wild-type plants and wee1-2 mutants. As described by CITATION, the wee1 mutation did not affect endoreduplication under normal growth conditions. As shown in Figure 6B and Supplemental Figure 6 online, the endoreduplication effect of the CDT1-RNAi construct was similar in the wild-type and the wee1-2 mutant backgrounds, indicating that the increase in endoreduplication was not WEE1 dependent. Similarly, CDT1-RNAi lines still displayed increased endoreduplication in the sog1 background, indicating that neither WEE1 nor SOG1 is responsible for the endoreduplication phenotype observed in CDT1-RNAi lines. Also, transmission of the cdt1a mutation remained unchanged in the wee1-2 and sog1 backgrounds, indicating that the observed developmental arrest in gametophytes does not require WEE1 or SOG1 activity. This may either suggest that the observed increase in endoreduplication is not related to the response to DNA stress or that downregulation of CDT1 occurs downstream of WEE1 and/or SOG1 activation to promote endoreduplication upon DNA damage. To gain further insight into the role of CDT1 proteins in the DNA damage response, we next investigated the sensitivity of the different lines to DNA stress. The appearance of mutations in the progeny of cdt1a/+cdt1b mutants could either be due to an increase in DNA damage or to a defect in DNA stress checkpoints. To discriminate between these two hypotheses, we tested the resistance of cdt1 mutants and CDT1-RNAi lines to DNA stress. We first investigated the role of CDT1 proteins in the response to replication fork stalling. To this end, plants were grown for 10 d on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and transferred to plates containing increasing concentrations of hydroxyurea (HU), which is an inhibitor of ribonucleoside reductase. HU treatment depletes the cellular content of deoxyribonucleotide and thereby induces stalling of the replication fork. Root growth was measured 2 d after transfer on HU-containing medium (Figures 7A and 7B). On MS plates, root growth of CDT1-RNAi plantlets was much lower than that of the wild type, and this difference was still observed on HU-containing medium. However, root length was significantly reduced by 1 mM HU treatment in the wild type but remained unchanged for CDT1-RNAi plants on medium containing 1 or 2 mM HU, suggesting that they show increased tolerance to stalling of the replication fork. To further confirm that growth of CDT1-RNAi plantlets is not as strongly inhibited as the wild type by DNA stress, we tested their tolerance to γ-irradiation. Root growth was measured 3 d after irradiation at various doses. Root growth was reduced in the wild type at a dose of 20 Gray but remained unchanged in CDT1-RNAi lines up to 30 Gray (Figure 7B). Furthermore, relative growth was lower in the wild type than for CDT1-RNAi plants in all conditions tested (Figure 7D). [[FIGURE]] Several hypotheses may account for the reduced sensitivity of CDT1-RNAi plantlets to DNA-damaging agents. One possibility would be that sensing of DNA damage is impaired in these plants, resulting in the absence of cell cycle arrest and DNA repair, as observed in the sog1 mutant. Alternatively, the apparent resistance could be due to basal activation of the DNA stress checkpoint, resulting in a less severe growth inhibition after DNA damage. Because growth of CDT1-RNAi plantlets is further reduced after γ-irradiation compared with untreated CDT1-RNAi plantlets, cell cycle arrest induced by DNA damage seemed to be functional in this background. The second hypothesis, therefore, appeared the most likely. To confirm this, we tested whether the response to γ irradiation was normal in CDT1-RNAi plants by assessing recognition of double-strand breaks (DSB), induction of DNA repair genes, and cell cycle arrest after γ-irradiation. All steps of the DSB response were found to be functional in CDT1-RNAi lines (for details, see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental Methods 1 online). Response to DNA damage was actually enhanced in CDT1-RNAi plants in terms of γ-H2AX incorporation at the site of DNA damage and RAD51 expression, demonstrating that sensing and repair of DSB are functional in these plants and suggesting that they are “primed” by endogenous stress, allowing a faster or stronger response, at least at early steps of the pathway. To further investigate the role of CDT1a and CDT1b in the maintenance of genome integrity, we searched for interacting partners by tandem affinity purification (TAP). We reasoned that this method may allow us to identify new protein complexes containing CDT1a and/or CDT1b together with proteins involved in DNA repair or DNA damage sensing. Protein complexes could be purified when the tag was positioned at the N-terminal end of CDT1 proteins. Few proteins were identified by this method, but the results were very reproducible (Table 3; see Supplemental Table 1 online). CDT1a and CDT1b were found to copurify with the two subunits of DNA polymerase ε (DPB2 and POL2A). Additionally, we found a transcription factor that appeared to copurify specifically with CDT1b. To confirm that CDT1 proteins can interact with DNA polymerase ε, we used the yeast two-hybrid system. Both CDT1a and CDT1b were found to interact with the regulatory subunit DPB2 (Figure 8). The catalytic subunit is very large, and two clones encompassing ∼500 amino acids at the C terminus of the protein (POL3 and POL5), corresponding to the region involved in DPB2 binding, were tested (CITATION). We could not find an interaction between CDT1 proteins and these fragments, although the POL3 fragment could interact with DPB2 as reported (CITATION) (data not shown). These results suggest that CDT1 proteins form a complex with DNA polymerase ε through their association with DPB2. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized by treatment with Bayrochlor (Bayrol) for 20 min and washed and imbibed in sterile water for 2 to 4 d at 4°C to obtain homogeneous germination. Seeds were sown on commercially available 0.5× MS medium (Basalt Salt Mixture M0221; Duchefa) with the suitable antibiotic if needed and solidified with 0.8% agar (Phyto-Agar HP696; Kalys) and grown in a long-day (16 h of light/8 h of dark, 21°C) growth chamber. After 2 weeks, the plants were transferred to soil in a glasshouse or in a growth chamber under short-day conditions (8 h of light, 20°C/16 h of dark, 18°C) for 2 weeks before being transferred to long-day conditions. T-DNA insertion lines from the SALK collection (SALK_001298) and from GABI (GABI_025G08) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. The CDT1-RNAi lines and cdt1b mutants have been described previously (CITATION). The cdt1a/+ mutant was obtained from the GABI-Kat collection (CITATION), and mutants were identified by PCR. The GABI T-DNA and CDT1a mut primers allowed us to screen for the mutated allele, and the CDT1a WT and CDT1a mut primers were used to amplify the wild-type allele. Plants harboring an insertion in the HKL3 gene were identified using the GABI-T-DNA and HLK3mut primers. Sequences of these primers are given in Supplemental Table 2 online. For complementation of cdt1a/+ mutants, we generated a HA-tagged version of CDT1a driven by its own promoter. To this end, a triple HA tag was amplified by PCR using the HA-dir (containing a KpnI site) and HA-rev (containing a SacI site) primers. This fragment was sequenced and cloned between the KpnI and SacI sites of the pPZP111 vector (CITATION) to generate the pPZP111-HA vector. The putative promoter sequence for CDT1a (815 bp upstream of the translation initiation codon) and the first 24 bp of the CDT1a coding sequence were amplified using the pCDT1-HindIII (containing a HindIII site) and pCDT1-XbaI (containing the XbaI site found in the CDT1a cDNA) primers, and this fragment was digested using HindIII and XbaI. The 3′ end of the CDT1a coding sequence was amplified using the CDT1-ClaI (situated upstream of the ClaI site found in the CDT1a cDNA) and CDT1a-KpnI (containing a KpnI site) primers; after sequencing, this fragment was digested using the ClaI and KpnI sites. These two fragments and the center part of the CDT1a cDNA cut at the XbaI and ClaI sites were ligated into the pPZP111-HA vector to generate the pCDT1a:CDT1a-HA construct. The sequences of primers are indicated in Supplemental Table 2 online. The pCDT1a:CDT1a-HA plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by electroporation, and Arabidopsis transgenic lines were generated by the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 transformants were selected on kanamycin (50 µg/mL) and sulfadiazine (5 µg/mL). Fertile cdt1a/+ plants were identified, and their progeny were sown on selective medium. This allowed us to identify cdt1a homozygous mutants expressing the CDT1a-HA protein, and these plants were identical to the wild type. For HU treatments, plants were transferred and aligned either to fresh control medium or HU-containing medium (Sigma-Aldrich) and grown vertically under long-day conditions for 2 d. γ-Irradiation assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). For comparison of sensitivity to γ-rays between the wild type and CDT1-RNAi, plantlets irradiated as above were transferred and grown on 0.5× MS medium in a vertical position under long-day conditions for 3 d. Total RNA was extracted from seedlings with the RNeasy MiniPrep kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 2 µg of total RNA using Improm-II reverse transcriptase (A3802; Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. One-twenty-fifth of the synthesized cDNA was mixed with 100 nM of each primer and LightCycler 480 Sybr Green I master mix (Roche Applied Science) for quantitative PCR analysis. Products were amplified and fluorescent signals acquired with the LightCycler 480 detection system. The specificity of amplification products was determined by melting curves. PP2AA3 was used as an internal control for signal normalization. Exor4 relative quantification software (Roche Applied Science) automatically calculates the relative expression level of the selected genes with algorithms based on the ΔΔcycle threshold method. Data were from duplicates of at least two biological replicates. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis was performed at least twice for each biological replicate. The sequences of primers can be found in Supplemental Table 2 online. Fresh siliques were opened using a stereomicroscope (SVII; Zeiss), and images were captured with a color charge-coupled device camera (Power HAD; Sony). Anthers were stained in Alexander solution to stain pollen grains and observed by light microscopy (CITATION). Differential interference contrast microscopy was used to observe female gametophytes that had been fixed in ethanol:acetic acid (3:1) and cleared using chloral hydrate solution (8 g of chloral hydrate, 1 mL of glycerol, and 2 mL of water). Images were captured on an Axioskop microscope (Zeiss) with a Spot RT slider camera (Diagnostic Instrument), and Z-stack projections (average of intensity) were performed using ImageJ software (rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) and enhanced using Adobe Photoshop software. For pollen mitosis, inflorescences were fixed as above, and for each flower, pollen grains were sorted from anthers on a polysine slide (Thermo Scientific) with a drop of Vectashield with DAPI (H-1200; Vector Laboratories). Images (Z-stacks) were captured on an epifluorescence videomicroscope (DMI6000B; Leica) with an ER-Hamamatsu camera, and Z-stack projections (maximum of intensity) were performed using ImageJ software. For flow cytometric analysis of nuclei, tissues were chopped with a razor blade in 1 mL of Galbraith buffer (CITATION) supplemented with 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone 10,000, 5 mM metabisulfite, and 5 mg/mL RNase from a stock solution at 50 units/mg. Propidium iodide was added to the filtered supernatants at 50 µg/mL. Endoreplication levels of 5,000 to 10,000 stained nuclei were determined using a Cyflow SL flow cytometer (Partec) with a 532-nm solid state laser (100 mW) for excitation, and emission data were collected after a 590-nm long-pass filter. For quantification of genome size, a piece to tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaf was chopped with each sample to include an internal control. CDT1a and CDT1b cDNAs were cloned between the KpnI and EcoRI sites of the pENTR3C vector. For C-terminal fusions to the TAP tag, we used the CDT1a KpnI dir and CDT1a EcoRI rev primers for CDT1a and CDT1b KpnI dir and CDT1b EcoRI rev primers for CDT1b. For N-terminal fusion to the TAP tag, the original stop codon of the cDNA was conserved using the CDT1a rev stop and CDT1b rev stop primers for CDT1a and CDT1b, respectively. Cloning of transgenes encoding tag fusions under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and transformation of Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were then performed as described previously (CITATION). Tandem affinity purification of protein complexes was done using the protein G and streptavidin binding peptide tag (CITATION) followed by protein precipitation and separation, according to CITATION. For the protocols of proteolysis and peptide isolation, acquisition of mass spectra by a 4800 Proteomics Analyzer (Applied Biosystems), and MS-based protein homology identification based on The Arabidopsis Information Resource 8.0 genomic database, we refer to CITATION. Experimental background proteins were subtracted based on ∼40 TAP experiments on wild-type cultures and cultures expressing the TAP-tagged mock proteins β‑glucuronidase, red fluorescent protein, and green fluorescent protein (CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid constructs encompassing CDT1a and CDT1b were obtained by recombination using Gateway technology. Gateway-compatible yeast two-hybrid vectors were derived from the pGADT7 and pGBKT7 vectors and were a gift from Pascale Rossignol (John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK). The DPB2 cDNA was amplified by PCR using the Pol ε EcoRI dir and Pol ε XhoI stop primers and cloned between the EcoRI and XhoI sites of pENTR1A. Yeast two-hybrid constructs were obtained by recombination. Yeast transformation and interaction assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: CDT1a, At2g31270; CDT1b, At3g54710; DPB2, At5g22110; POL2A, At1g08260; CYCB1;1, At4g37490; PP2AA3, At1g13320; Ku70, At1g48050; XRCC4, At3g23100; PARP2, At2g31320; RAD51, At5g20850; BRCA1, At4g21070. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Position of the T-DNA Insertion in the GABI_025G08 Line. Supplemental Figure 2. DNA Content in Pollen Grains Isolated from a Whole Inflorescence of a Col-0 Plant. Supplemental Figure 3. Altered DNA Content in Pollen Grains Isolated from cdt1a/+cdt1b Mutants. Supplemental Figure 4. Endoreduplication Is Increased in cdt1a/+ and cdt1a/+cdt1b Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. Endoreduplication Is Enhanced in CDT1-RNAi Plants in a WEE1- and SOG1-Independent Manner. Supplemental Figure 6. Cellular Response to DNA Damage Is Normal in CDT1-RNAi Plants. Supplemental Table 1. Detailed Results for TAP Analysis. Supplemental Table 2. Primer Sequences. Supplemental Methods 1. Immunofluorescence.
