!~ABS~! Seed dormancy controls the start of a plant’s life cycle by preventing germination of a viable seed in an unfavorable season. Freshly harvested seeds usually show a high level of dormancy, which is gradually released during dry storage (after-ripening). Abscisic acid (ABA) has been identified as an essential factor for the induction of dormancy, whereas gibberellins (GAs) are required for germination. The molecular mechanisms controlling seed dormancy are not well understood. DELAY OF GERMINATION1 (DOG1) was recently identified as a major regulator of dormancy in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we show that the DOG1 protein accumulates during seed maturation and remains stable throughout seed storage and imbibition. The levels of DOG1 protein in freshly harvested seeds highly correlate with dormancy. The DOG1 protein becomes modified during after-ripening, and its levels in stored seeds do not correlate with germination potential. Although ABA levels in dog1 mutants are reduced and GA levels enhanced, we show that DOG1 does not regulate dormancy primarily via changes in hormone levels. We propose that DOG1 protein abundance in freshly harvested seeds acts as a timer for seed dormancy release, which functions largely independent from ABA.
!~RES~! Seed development consists of an embryogenesis phase followed by a seed maturation phase. Seed maturation starts after the embryo has been fully developed and ends when the seed is mature and desiccated, which under our growth conditions occurs at ∼10 d after pollination (DAP) and 20 DAP, respectively. CITATION showed by RNA gel blot analysis that DOG1 expression can first be detected at the beginning of seed maturation, peaked around the mid-maturation stage, and decreased toward the end of seed maturation. We confirmed these results by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) on siliques and seeds of the highly dormant genotype Near Isogenic Line (NIL) DOG1_Cvi, using primers that amplify all known DOG1 transcript variants from alternative splicing. DOG1 expression shows a peak around 16 DAP, followed by a reduction in expression until ∼20% of the peak level in freshly harvested seeds (Figure 1A). We could also confirm that DOG1 transcript levels quickly disappear after seed imbibition (Figure 1A; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Similar to DOG1 transcript levels, its protein gradually increased in abundance after the start of seed maturation and reached a peak during the mid-maturation phase. However, in contrast with the transcript level, DOG1 protein did not decrease after reaching its peak but remained at the same level, suggesting that it is a very stable protein (Figure 1B). As a consequence, freshly harvested seeds contain low DOG1 transcript levels but high DOG1 protein levels. Seed dormancy is released by after-ripening, and we were interested in the dynamics of the DOG1 protein during this process. The amount of DOG1 slightly decreased during dry storage of NIL DOG1 seeds, but was still relatively high after 13 weeks of after-ripening when dormancy had already been fully released (Figures 1C and 1D). We also monitored the dynamics of transcript and protein levels during imbibition using freshly harvested (dormant) and after-ripened seeds. In contrast with DOG1 transcript levels, which quickly disappear after imbibition (Figure 1E), DOG1 protein was hardly affected by imbibition both in dormant and after-ripened seeds (Figure 1F). These results indicate that germination potential is not correlated with DOG1 protein abundance in after-ripened imbibed seeds. Interestingly, induction of DOG1 in imbibed seeds, using a transgenic dog1-1 line containing the DOG1 gene expressed from the heat shock promoter, was also not able to induce dormancy. Seeds from this line germinated 100% when DOG1 was induced by a 6 h 37°C treatment after 3 to 24 h of imbibition (Figure 1G). Natural Arabidopsis accessions show considerable differences in seed dormancy, which can for an important part be explained by a quantitative trait locus located at the DOG1 gene, both in laboratory (CITATION) and field experiments (CITATION). In addition, it was shown that differences in DOG1 expression between Arabidopsis accessions contribute to geographical variation in dormancy and germination (CITATION). We confirmed the observation of CITATION that the strongly dormant NIL DOG1 genotype shows higher DOG1 transcript levels than the low dormant Ler accession (Figure 2A). In addition, the dog1-1 mutant, which was generated in the NIL DOG1 background, showed strongly decreased DOG1 transcript levels. Consistent with the transcript levels, an immunoblot analysis of seed protein showed that the DOG1 protein level in freshly harvested seeds is more abundant in NIL DOG1 than in Ler (Figure 2B). DOG1 protein could not be detected in the dog1-1 mutant, which does not produce full-length protein because of a one-nucleotide deletion and subsequent frameshift halfway through the gene. [[FIGURE]] We further studied the effect of DOG1 protein levels on seed dormancy using eight independent dog1-1 transgenic lines that each contained a genomic fragment of DOG1_Ler in a single introgression event. Analysis of the DOG1 protein levels in freshly harvested seeds from these plants showed a high variation, varying from line 1 with DOG1 protein levels similar to Ler, to lines 7 and 8 in which DOG1 accumulated to much higher levels than NIL DOG1 (Figure 2C). The germination rate during dry seed storage of these lines showed a high correlation with their DOG1 protein levels (Figure 2D). Line 1 showed low dormancy levels and germinated close to 100% after 3 weeks of storage, but lines 7 and 8 germinated <10% after 5 weeks of dry storage. In summary, we always observed a strong correlation of DOG1 transcript and protein levels in freshly harvested seeds with seed dormancy levels. This indicates that the level of DOG1 protein in freshly harvested seeds determines the level of seed dormancy. Environmental conditions during seed maturation influence dormancy (CITATION). We were interested in the role of DOG1 in the dormancy response to temperature during seed maturation. Ler, dog1-1, and NIL DOG1 plants were grown until the onset of flowering under a day/night temperature regime of 22/16°C. Next, half of these plants were transferred to a day/night temperature regime of 16/14°C, while the other half remained at 22/16°C. Seeds subsequently harvested from Ler and NIL DOG1 plants showed increased seed dormancy at the lower seed maturation temperature (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of DOG1 transcript levels in freshly harvested seeds revealed that seeds matured at 16/14°C contained higher DOG1 expression levels compared with seeds that matured at 22/16°C in all three genotypes (Figure 3B). In addition, immunoblot analysis showed enhanced DOG1 protein levels under the cooler seed maturation condition (Figure 3C). This indicated that reduced temperatures during seed maturation enhance DOG1 expression, leading to higher DOG1 protein levels and higher dormancy levels. Despite the strong correlation between DOG1 protein levels and dormancy in freshly harvested seeds, such a correlation is completely lacking in after-ripened seeds, suggesting a loss of DOG1 activity during after-ripening. Such a loss of activity could be caused by an altered protein structure. This possibility was investigated by analysis of DOG1 protein on two-dimensional (2D) gels. The DOG1 antibody is not entirely specific and recognizes some additional proteins, which hinders the identification of DOG1 protein on 2D gels. Therefore, we used transgenic Columbia (Col) plants containing 3xHA-tagged DOG1 expressed from the Cvi DOG1 promoter. Figure 4 shows that DOG1 protein of freshly harvested 16 h imbibed seeds is focused at the isoelectric point value of ∼5.15. DOG1 proteins from imbibed seeds after 12 weeks after-ripening were detected at two major spots, which were shifted toward the acidic side. This indicates that the DOG1 protein is altered during the after-ripening process, probably leading to its loss of function. The shift in isoelectric focusing of DOG1 protein during after-ripening has been repeatedly observed in two independent seed batches. [[FIGURE]] CITATION showed that DOG1 expression is seed specific. To determine the tissue-specific distribution of DOG1 expression within the seed, we performed an in situ hybridization analysis using developing seeds during mid-maturation, at which time DOG1 shows its peak expression level. The hybridization signals of the antisense DOG1 probe in consecutive sections were mainly found in vascular tissues of the cotyledon, hypocotyl, and radicle of the embryo (Figures 5A and 5B). Similar experiments using the sense probe did not show any signal. We also monitored the activity of β-glucuronidase (GUS) driven by the DOG1-Cvi promoter. Consistent with the signal from in situ hybridization, GUS activity was observed in vascular tissues (Figure 5C). We conclude that DOG1 is mainly expressed in the vascular tissue of the embryo. [[FIGURE]] To examine the functional relevance of the tissue-specific expression that we observed, a complementation analysis was performed in which DOG1 was expressed from the following tissue-specific promoters: ProSUC2 (phloem), ProSTM and ProCLV3 (apical meristem), ProML1 (epidermal layer of the embryo), and ProZHOUPI, ProCAT1, and ProFIS2 (endosperm). Interestingly, DOG1 was able to confer some level of dormancy with all of these promoters (Figure 5D). Differences in dormancy level between these misexpression lines could be caused by differences in the amount of produced DOG1 protein and was not further studied. These results suggested that, although DOG1 is mainly expressed from the vascular tissue, it can function independent of where it is expressed in the seed. To elucidate the subcellular localization of DOG1 protein, we constructed transgenic plants containing the DOG1 genomic fragment with an N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) tag that was driven by the 35S promoter and selected lines that complemented the dog1-1 phenotype. The YFP fluorescence was mainly detected in the nucleus (Figures 5E to 5H). The balance between the ABA and GA pathways determines the dormancy level and germination potential of seeds (CITATION). Both dormant and nondormant seeds show a decline in their ABA levels within the first 12 h of imbibition. Thereafter, dormant seeds show consistently higher ABA levels than nondormant seeds (CITATION; CITATION). We studied the expression kinetics of ABA and GA metabolic genes during imbibition of fresh mature Ler, dog1-1, and NIL DOG1 seeds in detail. Nine-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED) genes are key regulatory genes of ABA biosynthesis and were generally upregulated in NIL DOG1 compared with Ler and dog1-1 (Figure 6). The ABA catabolic mutants cyp707a1-3 are defective in ABA 8′-hydroxylase activity and accumulate higher amounts of ABA in dry and imbibed seed (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Among the four genes coding for the enzymes in Arabidopsis, CYP707A2 has been shown to be responsible for degradation of ABA during early imbibition of seeds. Induction of CYP707A1 and CYP707A3 was not observed in NIL DOG1 and dog1-1 (Figure 6). CYP707A2 had similar expression patterns in all three genotypes during imbibition. However, the expression levels in Ler were lower at the beginning of imbibition, while those in dog1-1 were lower at extended imbibition times (Figure 6). Overall, our data suggest that DOG1 is not directly involved in the ABA pathway, but de novo ABA synthesis partially contributes to dormancy maintenance in NIL DOG1. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the expression pattern of several GA biosynthetic genes. The level of GA20ox3 transcript was already higher in dry seeds of dog1-1 compared with NIL DOG1 and Ler. Upon imbibition, GA20ox1, 2, and 3 and GA3ox1 and 2 were all induced in dog1-1 from rather early stages onwards. This induction was not observed in dormant NIL DOG1, suggesting that DOG1 negatively influences GA biosynthesis during imbibition. We determined the ABA and GA levels in seeds to find out whether the differential expression of the above-mentioned genes alters the actual hormone levels. Figure 7A shows that the ABA level in fresh mature dry seed was significantly higher in NIL DOG1 compared with the wild type. By contrast, the dog1-1 mutant showed lower ABA levels. We also analyzed 36 h imbibed seeds. As expected, ABA levels were decreased compared with that of dry seeds in all three genotypes. However, they were still higher in NIL DOG1 compared with the dog1-1 mutant (Figure 7). The GA levels in 36 h imbibed seeds showed larger differences between the three genotypes than the ABA levels. GA levels were significantly higher in dog1-1, which was in good accordance with the biosynthetic gene expression pattern (Figure 6). These results indicated that GA production was repressed during imbibition in dormant NIL DOG1 seeds. [[FIGURE]] The nondormant phenotype of dog1 mutants is very similar to that of mutants defective in either biosynthesis or signaling of ABA. However, in contrast with those mutants, dog1 cannot germinate without GA as shown by the absence of germination in a double mutant with ga1-3 (CITATION). In accordance, germination of dog1-1 seeds was sensitive to paclobutrazol, an inhibitor for GA biosynthesis, although at a reduced level compared with NIL DOG1 (Figure 8A). Finally, dog1 has nearly wild-type sensitivity to applied ABA (CITATION). These data indicated that the nondormant phenotype of dog1-1 was not caused by severe impairment of ABA signaling. [[FIGURE]] However, the strong DOG1-Cvi allele is not able to induce dormancy when it is combined with the aba1 mutation (Figure 8B; CITATION). To determine whether the nondormant phenotype of the aba1 mutant could be explained by reduced DOG1 levels, we checked DOG1 expression in aba1 mutant lines. Surprisingly, our qRT-PCR results showed that DOG1 expression is increased in the aba1 background, regardless of the DOG1 allele (Figure 8C). An immunoblot analysis showed that in accordance with the transcript levels, DOG1 protein levels were higher in ABA-deficient genetic backgrounds (Figure 8C). These data demonstrated that DOG1 function requires ABA and that a feedback regulation exists between these two inducers of dormancy. Seeds of the cyp707a2 mutant exhibit strongly increased ABA levels and enhanced dormancy (Figures 8B and 8D; CITATION). We found that seeds from the double mutant dog1-2 cyp707a2-1 show reduced dormancy compared with the cyp707a2-1 single mutant and germinated around 90% directly after harvest (Figure 8B), as reported by CITATION. Analysis of the ABA levels in these mutants indicated strongly increased ABA levels in cyp707a2-1 compared with its wild-type background Col, which was also shown by CITATION. The dog1-2 cyp707a2-1 double mutant had ABA levels comparable to the cyp707a2-1 single mutant (Figure 8D). This indicated that high ABA accumulation cannot compensate for the absence of DOG1 function. Therefore, DOG1 and ABA are both necessary for the induction of seed dormancy.
!~MM~! Plant materials used in this study were all derived from the Arabidopsis thaliana accessions Ler, Cvi, and Col-0. Ler and NIL DOG1 have an identical genotype, apart from an ∼4.5 Mb Cvi introgression at the bottom of chromosome 5, containing the DOG1 gene (CITATION). The mutant dog1-1 is in the NIL DOG1 background (CITATION), aba1-3 in the Ler background, and dog1-2 and cyp707a2-1 (CITATION) in the Col background. The dog1-2 mutant was isolated by V. Raz (Wageningen University and Research Centre, The Netherlands) and identified as a nondormant mutant in the Col background allelic to dog1-1, carrying two nucleotide changes from C to A at the positions 332 and 334 in the first exon, which causes a premature stop codon. The cyp707a2-1 seeds were a gift from Masanori Okamoto (RIKEN). The double homozygous lines of NIL DOG1 aba1-3 and dog1-2 cyp707a2-1 were selected in the F2 progeny of crosses between the two genotypes using PCR to confirm their homozygosity. All plants were sown on soil and grown in a growth chamber with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle (22°C/16°C), unless stated otherwise, or in a greenhouse where the temperature was maintained close to 23°C and 16 h of light was provided daily. Freshly harvested seeds were immediately used for experiments or stored under constant conditions (21°C, 50% humidity, in the dark) for after-ripening treatment. About 50 seeds were plated onto a filter paper moistened with demineralized water in Petri dishes and incubated in long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark, 25°C/20°C cycle). Radicle emergence was scored after 3 d, since dog1-1 mutant and after-ripened seeds fully germinate within this period. For paclobutrazol responsiveness tests, seeds were stored for 10 weeks to be fully released from dormancy and sown on 0.8% (w/v) water-agarose containing paclobutrazol. Each germination test was done in at least three replicates from independent plants. Total RNA was extracted from developing Arabidopsis siliques or imbibed seeds using RNAqueous columns and RNA isolation aid (Ambion) as described previously (CITATION). For the qRT-PCR, cDNA was synthesized using the QuantiTect reverse transcription kit (Qiagen) from 1 µg of total RNA in a volume of 20 µL, and diluted 20-fold or 200-fold with water for subsequent PCR. qRT-PCR was performed with QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR (Qiagen) on a Mastercycler Realplex2 system (Eppendorf) with the following primer set: DOG1-overall-F, 5′-GAGCTGATCTTGCTCACCGATGTAG-3′; DOG1-overall-R, 5′-CCGCCACCACCTGAAGATTCGTAG-3′. The other primers were described previously; ACTIN8 (ACT8) (CITATION), NCED2, NCED5, NCED6, NCED9 (CITATION), NCED3, CYP707A1, CYP707A2, CYP707A3 (CITATION), GA20ox1, GA20ox2, GA20ox3, GA3ox1 (CITATION), and GA3ox2 (CITATION). The PCR program was as follows: 15 min at 95°C, followed by 45 cycles of 15 s at 95°C, 20 s at 60°C, and 20 s at 68°C. Single product amplification was validated by melting curve analysis. The expression value for each gene was quantified using a standard curve with a serial dilution of plasmid of known concentration, and they were normalized to the value of ACT8. At least three biological replicates were analyzed. Twenty milligrams of developing siliques or 10 or 5 mg of dry seeds were ground in liquid nitrogen and then extracted with a buffer containing 6 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 0.2% (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.2% (w/v) sarcosyl, and 2 mM DTT in 100 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5. After two cycles of 30 min shaking and collecting supernatant by centrifugation at 4°C, protein concentration was determined by Bradford dye reagent (Bio-Rad) using BSA as a standard. Eighty-microgram protein samples were separated by 12% polyacrylamide gel according to CITATION. Semidry transfer and immunological reaction was performed as previously described (CITATION). DOG1 is detected around 40 kD by immunoblotting despite its calculated molecular mass of around 32 kD. This slow migration is possibly due to the acidity of DOG1 protein, and we confirmed that the DOG1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli shows a similar migration on SDS-PAGE. For the 2D gel analysis, seed protein was extracted according to CITATION. Samples were applied to 7-cm immobilized linear pH 4.7 to 5.9 gradient strips (Bio-Rad). Isoelectric focusing was conducted at 250 V for 90 min, gradually increased to 4000 V within 60 min, and held at 4000 V for a total of 20,000 V hours. Proteins were then separated on a 4 to 12% gradient gel (NuPAGE; Invitrogen) and analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-HA monoclonal antibody (HA. 11, clone 16B12; Covance). Two oligo peptides C-RRSHGDEDNDNKLRE, corresponding to the 37th to 51st amino acid residues (the 1st C is for coupling site), and GTMRDRRRDCMVDTE, corresponding to the 252nd to 267th residues in DOG1_Cvi, were synthesized, mixed, and used to raise antibodies in rabbits. A small amount of final bleed was affinity purified using each antigen peptide separately (Eurogentec), and the antibody against the first peptide was selected by titer check for further use. Extraction, purification, and measurement of ABA were performed as described previously (CITATION). All the binary constructs were prepared using the Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Binary vectors pGWB1, pGWB3, and pGWB14 (CITATION) were gifts from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa (Shimane University, Japan). A 5.46-kb fragment of Ler genomic DNA including 2.51-kb region upstream of the DOG1 start codon, the DOG1 coding region, and 1.2 kb downstream from its stop codon was amplified using the primers 5′-CACCACCAAATTGTTTGTGCATGCTTCAG-3′ and 5′-GACCGGCATTGAAGTCCACA-3′, cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO vector, and converted into pGWB1. The promoter region of 2634 bp from Cvi (2683 to 49 bp upstream of the start codon) was amplified using the primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCATGAACAAGAACGATTCTC-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCGATCTCTTTTGGTTTGCGTGTTTG-3′, cloned into the pDONR201 vector and converted into pGWB3 for GUS reporter construct. A 2831-bp DOG1 genomic fragment from the starting codon to 3′ downstream from Cvi was amplified using the primers 5′-CACCATGGGATCTTCATCAAAGAA-3′ and 5′-GACCGGCATTGAAGTCCACA-3′, cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO vector and further cloned into 2× Pro35S:YFP binary vector pENSG-YFP for the YFP:DOG1 fusion construct. Underlining in the primer sequences indicates the sequences for the directional cloning into pENTR/D-TOPO vector or the attB sequences for BP reaction (Invitrogen). A 3xHA fragment with NotI adapter was amplified using the following primers (5′-AAGCGGCCGCATGAGCGGGTTAATTAACATCTT-3′ and 5′-AAGCGGCCGCGCTGCACTGAGCAGC-3′; NotI site underlined) from the pGWB14 vector and cloned in the unique NotI site downstream of attL1 sequences in pENTR/D-TOPO vector of above-mentioned entry clone of DOG1_Cvi (ATG to 3′ downstream). The DOG1 promoter from Cvi was cloned in front of the gateway cassette in the pGreen backbone, and the binary construct of the DOG1 promoter_Cvi:3xHA-DOG1_Cvi was produced by LR reaction. For DOG1 misexpression, the DOG1 genomic sequence was fused with a series of promoters. These were the endosperm-specific promoters Pro At-FIS2, Pro At-ZHOUPI, and Pro Nt-CAT1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the epidermal layer of the embryo-specific promoter Pro At-ML1 (CITATION), the meristem-specific promoters Pro At-STM and Pro At-CLV3 (CITATION), and the phloem-specific promoter Pro At-SUC2 (CITATION). At-STM, At-ML1, and At-SUC2 promoter entry clones were a gift from George Coupland (CITATION), and CAT1 promoter was a gift from Gerhard Leubner (CITATION). The At-FIS2, At-ZHOUPI, and At-CLV3 promoters were amplified from Col genomic DNA using specific primers with Gateway tails. All PCR products were introduced into the pDONR207 (Invitrogen) vector through BP reactions, generating promoter entry clones. The specific sequences for each primer pair were pCLV3-F, 5′-CGGATTATCCATAATAAAAACAAA-3′; pCLV3-R, 5′-AGAGAAATATAGAAACTGTTCTTTACT-3′; pFIS2-F, 5′-CTGCGCAGAGAATGAGTACG-3′; pFIS2-R, 5′-GACTGTGATCCACGCAATTTT-3′; pZHOUPI-F, 5′-TTGTGTTACGTTGTAACGAATTTT-3′; and pZHOUPI-R, 5′-TGCTCATTTTACCCTTTTTGC-3′. The DOG1 genomic fragment from Cvi was amplified with primers F (5′-TAAGGTACCTTGACATTTGTCATTGTTT-3′) and R (5′-TAAGGGCCCTTTGGGGTCTAAACCTTGCA-3′) and cloned into a modified pGreen0229 binary vector (CITATION). Underlining in the primer sequences indicates the sequences for the restriction enzymes for the cloning into pGreen0229 vector. Different promoter fusions were produced by LR reactions. The vector for DOG1-inducible expression was constructed by cloning of the DOG1 genomic sequence into the pLEELA-HSP vector, which was assembled by replacement of the double 35S promoter of the pLEELA vector (which is a derivative of pJawohl3-RNAi; GenBank AF404854) with the promoter from the soybean (Glycine max) Gmhsp 17.6L heat shock protein gene (CITATION). All the binary constructs were introduced by electroporation into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 or GV3101 carrying the helper plasmid pMP90RK (CITATION) or pSoup (CITATION), which were subsequently used to transform dog1-1 mutant or Col plants by floral dipping (CITATION). All the transgenic lines were first selected based on their antibiotics resistance and further selected by expression level of the transgene or restoration of the mutant phenotype. The DOG1 probe, nucleotides 197 to 575 relative to the start codon of the cDNA, was amplified by PCR and used as template for T7-RNA polymerase driven in vitro transcription (Ambion). Siliques of the accession Cvi at 14 DAP were used as samples. Sample preparations and hybridizations were performed as described previously (CITATION) with the following modifications. Tween 20 (0.03%) was added to the fixative, and dehydration of the fixed material was done without NaCl. Plant material was embedded in Paraplast+ (Kendall) in an ASP300 tissue processor (Leica). Probes were not hydrolyzed. For GUS staining, intact siliques or dissected tissues (embryo and testa/endosperm) at 16 to 20 DAP were vacuum infiltrated with 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoryl-β-D-glucuronic acid solution containing 2 mM potassium ferricyanide and incubated at 37°C overnight (CITATION). To terminate the reaction, the tissues were incubated in 70% ethanol and then cleared with chloral hydrate for microscopy. For the analysis of subcellular localization of DOG1, embryos at 16 to 18 DAP were dissected from the testa, and YFP fluorescence was observed using a Leica TCS SP2/AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: DOG1, At5g45830; and ACT8, At1g49240.
