!~ABS~! The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) plays pivotal roles in the regulation of developmental and environmental responses in plants. Identification of cytoplasmic ABA receptors enabled the elucidation of the main ABA signalling pathway, connecting ABA perception to either nuclear events or the action of several transporters. However, the physiological functions of ABA in cellular processes largely remain unknown. To obtain greater insight into the ABA response, genetic screening was performed to isolate ABA-related mutants of Arabidopsis and several novel ABA-hypersensitive mutants were isolated. One of those mutants—ahg11—was characterized further. Map-based cloning showed that AHG11 encodes a PPR type protein, which has potential roles in RNA editing. An AHG11-GFP fusion protein indicated that AHG11 mainly localized to the mitochondria. Consistent with this observation, the nad4 transcript, which normally undergoes RNA editing, lacks a single RNA editing event conferring a conversion of an amino acid residue in ahg11 mutants. The geminating ahg11 seeds have higher levels of reactive-oxygen-species-responsive genes. Presumably, partial impairment of mitochondrial function caused by an amino acid conversion in one of the complex I components induces redox imbalance which, in turn, confers an abnormal response to the plant hormone.
!~RES~! Accumulation of ABA in seeds causes ABA hypersensitivity at germination. It was previously shown that the seeds of ahg2-1, an ABA hypersensitive mutant, have higher endogenous ABA levels (CITATIONet al., 2005). It is postulated that higher levels of endogenous ABA cause an enhanced ABA response. In order to isolate mutants that have defects downstream of ABA synthesis rather than in ABA synthesis or catabolism, factors that affect endogenous ABA levels need to be eliminated or reduced. To this end, the aba2-1 mutant was used, which has reduced endogenous ABA levels due to a defect in the short-chain dehydrogenase enzyme and hence in ABA biosynthesis (CITATIONet al., 1996; CITATIONet al., 2002). The aba2-1 seeds were mutagenized with EMS, and M2 progeny were obtained. M2 seeds were sown on agar medium supplemented with the ABA analogue PBI-51 or ABA and germination was induced (CITATIONet al., 2004). After several days, ungerminated or no-green individuals were collected and tested for their ABA hypersensitivity during germination in the next generation. This screening isolated five ABA hypersensitive candidates, which were named as ABA hypersensitive germination (ahg11, 12, 13, 15, and 16). These mutants exhibited similar degrees of ABA hypersensitivity in the presence of the aba2-1mutation (CITATION). ABA sensitivity of new ABA-hypersensitive mutants at germination. Various mutant seeds were sown on the medium containing various concentrations of ABA. Germination efficiency is determined by counting seedlings (n >40) with green cotyledons every day for a week. The data shows the germination efficiency at day 7—a mean of four independent experiments. Error bars indicate standard deviation. After segregation of the aba2-1 mutation and a backcross to the wild type, three mutants, namely, ahg11, ahg12, and ahg16 retained strong phenotypes, enough to conduct mapping procedures. These test crosses revealed that ahg11 and ahg16 are recessive while ahg12 is dominant. For genetic mapping, these mutants were crossed with Ler wild-type plants and F2 progeny were obtained. PCR-marker-based rough mapping with approximately 100 F2 lines with ABA hypersensitivity indicated that ahg11, ahg12, and ahg16 are located at the bottom of chromosome 2, the top of the chromosome 3, and the bottom of chromosome 5, respectively (CITATION). Previously, several other ABA-hypersensitive mutants were reported (CITATIONet al., 2004, 2005, 2007; CITATIONet al., 2006). The locus of AHG3 is close to that of ahg12, but sequencing of the AHG3 gene in the ahg12 mutant confirmed that these mutants are not allelic. AHG1 and AHG4 were mapped to the lower arm of chromosome 5 and the middle part of chromosome 2, respectively, but these regions were unlinked to ahg11 and ahg16 loci. Therefore, ahg11, 12, 16 are new ABA-hypersensitive loci. Chromosomal positions of ahg11, ahg12, and ahg16. Schematic representation of the position of ahg11, ahg12, and ahg16 loci (black boxes). Neighbouring known ABA hypersensitive loci are shown as white boxes. In this study, ahg11 was chosen for further analysis because of the relative clarity of its phenotype. It was postulated that ahg11 does not increase the endogenous ABA levels because this mutant was isolated in the aba2-1 background that has reduced ABA biosynthetic activity. Indeed, the endogenous ABA levels in ahg11 dry seeds were lower than the wild type and those in imbibed seeds were the same as wild type (CITATION), implying that ahg11 affects ABA signalling or cellular responses to ABA rather than ABA biosynthesis or catabolism. Next, the responses of ahg11 mutants to osmotic and salinity stresses were examined. As shown in CITATION, the germination levels of ahg11 are slightly lower than those of the wild-type controls on an agar plate containing mannitol but are not as low as the strong ABA hypersensitive mutant era1-2. When subjected to salinity stress, ahg11 apparently germinates less effectively than the wild type but again, not as little as era1-2. These data imply that ahg11 affects not only ABA response but also abiotic stress response at germination. Sugar response is closely linked with ABA response (CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2006). Therefore, the sensitivity of ahg11 to glucose and sucrose was examined and it was found that it is slightly enhanced at germination (see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). By contrast with the phenotypes observed at germination, the ABA hypersensitivity of ahg11 is hardly detected in seedlings or adult plants (see Supplementary Fig. S2 at JXB online), suggesting that AHG11 function is required for germination or early seedling growth stages. Endogenous ABA content of ahg11. Endogenous ABA content of dry seeds and imbibed seeds was measured. The data shows the mean of three independent experiments. Error bars indicate standard deviation. Salt or hyper-osmotic stress sensitivity of ahg11. Germination efficiency was analysed in the presence of NaCl or mannitol. Wild-type (Col), ahg11, abi4-1, or era1-2 seeds (>50) were sown on MS-sucrose plates containing various concentrations of NaCl or mannitol. Germinating seedlings with greening cotyledons were counted. The data shown are means of three independent experiments. Error bar indicates standard deviation. Responses to other plant hormones were also examined. Interestingly, the germination of ahg11 was more strongly inhibited by jasmonic acid than wild type (see Supplementary Fig. S3 at JXB online). The responses to auxin, cytokinin, gibberellin, ethylene, and brassinosteroid were examined using elongation of the main root or hypocotyl. However, ahg11 mutant seedlings did not exhibit any detectable abnormalities in their responses to these plant hormones (see Supplementary Fig. S4 at JXB online). The results described above suggest that ahg11 demonstrates an enhanced sensitivity to ABA during germination. Next, the ahg11 responses to ABA were examined in adult plants. Root elongation, and the expression of ABA responsive genes, RD29A and RAB18, in ahg11 mutants displayed no apparent differences when compared with those responses in wild-type plants (data not shown). These data are consistent with the idea that AHG11 function is required only in seeds or young seedlings. Using PCR-based molecular markers, the predicted AHG11 locus was fine-mapped by analysing the chromosomal DNA obtained from ABA-hypersensitive F2 progeny from a test cross with the Ler wild type. The putative AHG11 region was narrowed to the region spanning about 80 kbp, where 17 genes are located according to The Arabidopsis Information Database (TAIR). The genomic regions corresponding to each of these genes were sequenced in ahg11 backgrounds and two base substitutions were found in the gene At2g44880, which is predicted to encode a pentatricopeptide repeat protein (PPR). While the wild-type At2g44880 protein is predicted to have 12 PPR repeats, the upstream base substitution generates a nonsense mutation [Trp 338 (TGG) -> stop codon (TAG)] resulting in a truncated polypeptide. It has been shown that plants have numerous PPR genes (CITATIONet al., 2007; CITATION). Arabidopsis has 450 PPR genes (CITATIONet al., 2004). Among them, dozens of PPRs have been intensely investigated and their targets identified. PPRs are categorized into several groups or classes on the basis of the motif composition of the proteins (CITATIONet al., 2004). AHG11 belongs to the E+ PLS family, most of which are involved in RNA editing, and has the highest similarity to CRR4, which edits the second cytosine residue of plastid ndhD transcripts (CITATIONet al., 2005). The C-terminal E-motif is required for the editing function of CRR4 and another E+-class PPR, CRR21 (CITATIONet al., 2007). Therefore, the nonsense ahg11 mutation, which causes the lack of 4 C-terminal PPR repeats, E, and E+ motifs, is most likely responsible for the malfunction of the AHG11 gene product (CITATION). Structure of AHG11.(A) Schematic representation of AHG11 protein. Grey box indicates the PPR motif. The approximate position of the ahg11 mutation site is shown.(B) Alignment of PPR motifs of AHG11; 12 PPR motifs are shown with the position and type of PPR motif. The amino acid positions followed the annotation of At2g44880 in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR). In order to confirm that At2g44880 is AHG11, a complementation analysis was conducted. The genomic DNA containing At2g44880 with a 500bp 5' untranslated region and a 300bp 3' untranslated region was introduced into the ahg11 mutant. The resultant transgenic lines showed a normal ABA response at germination (see Supplementary Fig. S5A at JXB online). The transgenic lines also exhibited normal sensitivities to glucose and methyl jasmonic acid at germination (see Supplementary Fig. S5B, C at JXB online). Based on these data, it is concluded that AHG11 is indeed At2g44880. The expression level of AHG11 is quite low according to public transcriptome databases. Database searches also revealed no previously submitted cDNAs for this gene. An attempt was made to detect transcripts by using RT-PCR and it was found that AHG11 is expressed at quite a low level but ubiquitously (see Supplementary Fig. S6 at JXB online). The genome sequence of AHG11/At2g44880 reveals multiple in-frame ATG codons. Since information on transcript sequences is lacking, it is not known which ATG codon is used as the start codon. When the most upstream ATG codon is utilized as the initiation codon, the polypeptide is predicted to localize mostly to the cytoplasm. On the other hand, when a downstream ATG codon is utilized, the gene product is predicted to function in plastids or the secretory pathway. AHG11 is closely related to CRR4, which is known to function in plastids. However, a recent proteomic study suggested that AHG11 localizes at the plasma membrane (CITATIONet al., 2009). To determine the subcellular localization of AHG11, the N-terminal portion of AHG11 (83 aa from the most upstream ATG codon) was fused to a GFP gene to form the AHG11-GFP fusion gene. When a plasmid DNA harbouring this fusion gene was introduced to the Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplast, GFP fluorescence was observed in a granule-like structure in the cytoplasm (CITATION). Most of the GFP-fluorescence overlapped with a Mitotracker-Red signal, implying that AHG11 localizes to the mitochondria. However, the number of the AHG11-GFP signals was apparently less than the mitochondrial signal obtained with Mitotracker-Red. Presumably, AHG11 localizes to mitochondria only under some conditions. Similar, but weaker spatial fluorescence patterns were observed with a full-length AHG11-GFP fusion protein (data not shown). Hardly any GFP fluorescence was detected when the subcellular localization of AHG11-GFP fusion proteins that use the downstream ATG codon as the initiation codon was examined. Subcellular localization of an AHG11-GFP protein. AHG11-GFP fusion protein was expressed in the Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplast. Left, GFP fluorescent signal; middle, Mitotracker Red staining; right, merged picture. Bar indicates 20 µm. Dotted line outlines the cell shape. The results described above indicate that AHG11-fused GFP localizes to mitochondria, suggesting that AHG11 plays a role in mRNA processing in mitochondria, particularly in RNA editing. There are about 500 editing sites in mitochondrial mRNA (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2008). In addition, the possibility cannot be excluded that AHG11 is involved in RNA editing in the plastid because AHG11 most resembles CRR4, which functions in the plastid. An examination of the status of each potential editing site one by one would be both time and labour-consuming. Recently, the RNA recognition code of editing PPR proteins was identified, namely the ‘PPR code’. The PPR code enables in silico prediction of the candidate target site for PPR protein (Y Yagi et al., unpublished data). The prediction using the PPR code allowed us to narrow the candidate AHG11 editing sites to around 20 sites. cDNA fragments containing these candidate editing sites were synthesized using total RNA isolated from ahg11 and wild-type seedlings and sequenced. Consequently, it was found that a C to U edit in the nad4 transcript at nucleotide position 376 (nad4-376) was absent in the mutant while neighbouring sites nad4-362 and nad4-403 were edited correctly (CITATION). More than 400 mitochondrial editing sites were examined and all of the known plastid editing sites, including accD and PsbZ (CITATIONet al., 2009), and no other differences in the RNA editing states between ahg11 and wild-type RNA were detected. It should be noted, however, that not all RNA editing sites could be examined. In addition, some of the known RNA editing sites were missed and a few novel RNA editing candidates found in mitochondrial transcripts obtained from germinating wild-type seeds. Therefore, the possibility cannot be excluded that AHG11 is also responsible for other RNA editing sites of mitochondrial transcripts. Proper RNA editing at nad4-376 was observed in the transgenic ahg11 mutants possessing the wild-type AHG11 transgene, confirming that AHG11 is required for nad4-376 RNA editing (CITATION). Since the other editing sites of nad4 are edited as reported previously and any abnormally spliced mRNAs were not detected (CITATION), the ahg11 mutation presumably does not affect any other RNA processing steps of nad4 transcripts. Although ahg11 exhibits an ABA hypersensitive phenotype at the seed or young seedling stages, the defect of nad4-376 RNA editing was detected in the adult ahg11 plant, implying that AHG11 functions at any stages consistent with the result of RT-PCR (see Supplementary Fig. S6 at JXB online). The C to U editing at nad4-376 converts Arg126 to Cys, where hydrophobic residues are found in other organisms (CITATION). Presumably, editing nad4-376 is required for its proper function in complex I. Target RNA editing site of AHG11.(A) Sequence chromatograms around the nad4-376 editing site of the nad4 cDNA obtained from wild-type or ahg11 plants. Red, green, blue or black peaks indicate T, A, C, or G, respectively. The vertical red arrow indicates nad4-376 and black arrows indicate nad4-362 and nad4-403 editing sites.(B) Northern blotting of nad4. Total RNA was isolated from wild-type or ahg11 seeds which were imbibed at 4 °C for 4 d and incubated for 48h and used for the Northern blotting experiment. EtBr-stained rRNA was shown as loading control.(C) Alignment of NAD4 amino acid sequence around the region that corresponds to the nad4-376 editing site. Asterisks indicate the amino acid residues corresponding to the RNA-editing sites in Arabidopsis (left to right, nad4-362, nad4-376, nad4-403). The number indicates the position of the first amino acid in the alignment. Previous reports on the PPR proteins functioning in mitochondria demonstrated that dysfunction of these PPR proteins resulted in higher reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation or redox imbalance in the cell (CITATIONet al., 2008). Presumably, an impaired respiration chain produces ROS. It is possible that the ahg11 mutation also confers such effect in germinating seeds. To see the cellular redox imbalance, the expression patterns of four reactive oxygen stress inducible genes were examined. Gadjev et al. (2006) reported various ROS inducible genes. Among the major ROS-inducible genes, At2g21640 encoding an unknown protein, At2g43510 encoding a trypsin inhibitor protein, At1g17170 encoding glutathione S-transferase tau 24, and At3g53230 encoding AtCDC48, were chosen because these genes express in seeds according to the public microarray database. To see the expression level in germinating seeds, total mRNA was prepared from seeds which were imbibed at 4 °C for 4 d and incubated at 22 °C for 48h under the lights and used for qRT-PCR experiments. As shown in CITATION, mRNA levels of all these genes were higher in ahg11 than the wild type. It was confirmed that the difference in those mRNA levels were not due to the small difference in germination timing between ahg11 and the wild type (see Supplementary Fig. S7 at JXB online). These results suggest that the defect in nad4-376 editing caused by ahg11 induces a redox imbalance in geminating seeds, as reported in other PPR defect mutants. Gene expression of ROS responsive genes in ahg11. Expression levels of ROS-inducible genes in ahg11 seeds (black bars) and in wild-type seeds (white bars) quantified by qRT-PCR are shown. The expression level of each gene is normalized to that of wild-type seeds. Asterisks (**) and (***) indicate the P-values <0.05 and <0.01 by Student’s t tests, respectively. The data shown are the means of three independent experiments. Error bars indicate standard deviation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotypes Columbia (Col) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were used. Plant growth conditions were as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2004). Ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized M2 seeds were obtained as follows: aba2-1 seeds were treated with 0.3% EMS for 16h at room temperature (c. 2000 seeds per parental group), washed extensively with water, and sown on soil. M2 generation seeds were separately harvested and formed independent pools. For germination assays, approximately 50 seeds were sown on plates containing 1× Murashige and Skoog salt mix, 2% sucrose, and various concentrations of plant hormones, NaCl, or mannitol. Seeds were imbibed at 4 °C for 4 d. Germination (emergence of radicles) and post-germination growth (green and expanded cotyledons) were scored at the indicated time points. The extraction and quantitative analyses of ABA were performed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2005). For mapping loci, the ahg11, 12, or 16 mutant was crossed with Ler, and F2 progeny were obtained. ABA-hypersensitive individuals were selected on a medium containing 0.2 µM ABA and grown on a normal medium. The isolation of genomic DNA and PCR conditions for PCR-based DNA markers are described elsewhere (CITATIONet al., 1999). The genomic AHG11 DNA fragment was obtained by PCR using high-fidelity DNA polymerase (KOD-Plus; Toyobo, Osaka, Japan) with primers, F-BamHpro2 and R-terXbaI (see Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online), and subcloned into pBluescript SK(–). After the confirmation of nucleotide sequence, this AHG11 clone was re-introduced into the binary vector pBI101. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was transformed with the resultant plasmid and used for the infection of Arabidopsis plants by the flower-dipping method (CITATION). Transgenic lines were screened by kanamycin tolerance in the next generation. Total RNA isolated from wild-type or ahg11 seeds which were imbibed at 4 °C for 4 d and incubated for 48h were separated on 1.2% agarose gel, transferred to a nylon membrane, and hybridized with a DIG labelled nad4 DNA probe. DNA labelling and detection were performed with a DIG High Prime DNA labelling and Detection Starter Kit II (Roche Diagnostics Japan, Tokyo) following the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA segments containing the AHG11 N-terminal portion (18505110nt–18505358nt of the chromosome II sequence) or the AHG11 open reading frame (18505110nt–18506903nt) were amplified using F-BamHINdeI3/RXba2 primer set or F-BamHINdeI3/AHG11-N-Xba primer set, respectively (see Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online), and fused to the SGFP gene downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter in pTH-2 (CITATIONet al., 1996). The resultant plasmid was introduced into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts obtained according to a previously described method (CITATIONet al., 2007). To stain mitochondria, protoplasts were incubated with 100nM Mitotracker Red CMXRos (Life Technologies Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) for 15min and washed with the WI buffer thrice. Fluorescence was observed under a confocal microscope (FV1000-D, Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). Total RNA was isolated from ahg11, wild type, and ahg11 harbouring pBI101-AHG11, using the TRIzol extraction reagent (Invitrogen Japan KK, Tokyo, Japan). cDNA was synthesized from 1 µg of total RNA using a ReverTra Ace Kit (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan). After DNase treatment, first strand cDNA was synthesized from total RNA (~1 µg) with random primers. Using cDNA as a template, a segment containing the edited RNA site was amplified by PCR with gene-specific primers (see Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online) and its sequence was determined. Total RNA was isolated from ahg11 and wild-type seeds which were imbibed at 4 °C for 4 d and incubated in the growth chamber for 48h. After DNase treatment, first strand cDNA was synthesized from total RNA (~1 µg) using the oligo dT(15) primer. Real-time PCR was performed on a LightCycler (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany) in a total volume of 20 µl containing 10 µl of SYBR Green Real-Time PCR Master Mix -Plus- (Takara Bio Inc., Otsu, Japan), 8 pmol of each primer, and 1/40 of the cDNA mixture. The amplification program consisted of 50 cycles of 95 °C for 10 s and 60 °C for 1min. The primers used are listed in Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online. At4g02080 was used to normalize the expression levels (CITATIONet al., 2012).
