!~ABS~! ► ZR proteins are evolutionary linked to HEP proteins from yeast and human. ► Mitochondrial ZR3 from Arabidopsis rescues a yeast HEP1 knockout mutant. ► ZR3 interacts biochemically with Arabidopsis mitochondrial HSP70 proteins. ► ZR3 is the first known ortholog of HEP1 in vascular plants.
!~RES~! Apart from our previous study on the plastid protein ET1 from maize, hitherto no further experimental data exist about ZR proteins from vascular plants. To further clarify the role of ZR proteins we studied the phylogenetic relationships among ZR protein family members in detail. We retrieved 180 ZR-like sequences from approximately 170 eukaryotic species focusing on organisms with extensively sequenced genomes. Taking advantage of the enlargement of sequence databases with time it became obvious that ZR-like proteins are not restricted to plant plastids but also occur in mitochondria of plants, animals, fungi and various protists. However, no ZR-homologous sequences were found in prokaryotes (CITATION A; for full data set see CITATION). Our previous study showed that ET1 from maize and its homolog ZR1 from Arabidopsis display some sequence similarities to ZR domains of various eukaryotic proteins, e.g., TFIIS/SII-type transcription elongation factors and the subunit 9 (RPB9) of RNA polymerase II CITATION. However, amino acid similarity was restricted to few conserved residues in the C4-type ZR domain. Due to the increased availability of ZR-like sequences, we now observed more significant sequence similarities between ZR proteins and HSP70 escort proteins (HEP) from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and human CITATION. Both, ZR and HEP proteins harbor the characteristic C-terminal C4-type ZR domain (Pfam: zf-dnl), though the sequences at the N-termini are highly variable (CITATIONC). HEP proteins were described to mediate the solubility and activity of mitochondrial HSP70 proteins CITATION. The human HEP protein (also known as DNLZ) was reported to stimulate the ATPase activity of the mitochondrial HSP70 protein HSPA CITATION. hep1 mutant strains from yeast are either lethal or display severe growth defects, i.e. inhibition of mitochondrial protein import and aggregation of HSP70s in the mitochondrial matrix CITATION. Biological importance of yeast HEP1 (also known as ZIM17/TIM15) is further highlighted by the recent observation that loss of HEP1 results in an extreme hyperrecombinant phenotype caused by severe genomic instability due to insufficient biosynthesis of mitochondrial iron-sulfur clusters CITATION. Based on their amino acid similarities ZR and HEP proteins can be put into a protein family that consists of five subgroups. Representative members of each subgroup are shown in CITATIONA. The taxonomic hierarchy of organisms is well reflected by the degree of similarity between the respective ZR or HEP proteins in each subgroup (CITATIONA and CITATION). Whereas proteins within the same subgroup share conserved sequences, the similarities between sequences of different subgroups are restricted to the ZR domain. Land plants (embryophytes) usually possess three types of ZR proteins: Two types are predicted to be localized in plastids and are represented by the ZR1- and the ZR2 subgroups, with ET1 from maize being of the ZR1-type. Proteins of the ZR2 subgroup differ from those of all other subgroups by possessing a unique but conserved protein domain (ProDom Family PD555678) localized upstream of the ZR motif (‘PD’ in CITATIONC, and CITATION). Proteins of the ZR3 subgroup are predicted to be targeted to mitochondria. We experimentally confirmed the predicted localizations for Arabidopsis ZR1 and ZR2 in plastids and the mitochondrial localization of Arabidopsis ZR3 by transient expression of GFP fusion constructs in Arabidopsis leaf cells and epidermal cells from spring onion, respectively. Whereas ZR1:GFP was equally distributed inside the plastids, ZR2:GFP always had a grainy appearance. (CITATIONB). Of the plastidic ZR proteins no members were found in the available data sets of brown algae, dinoflagellates, glaucophytes, and red algae. However, unicellular green algae such as Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the pico-eukaryots Ostreococcus tauri and O. lucimarinus possess single plastidic ZR/HEP-like proteins which cluster neither into the ZR1 nor the ZR2 subgroup from embryophytes. These distantly-related proteins build a different subgroup in the phylogenetic tree that we designated HEP2 reminiscent to the previously described subgroup member from C. reinhardtii CITATION. Amino acid identities between HEP2 from C. reinhardtii and ZR1/ZR2 proteins from land plants range between 15% and 19%. Like mitochondrial HEP1 from yeast, HEP2 binds to the respective plastidic heat shock protein HSP70B from C. reinhardtii CITATION. The authors suggested that HEP2 might be required for de novo folding of HSP70B after cleavage of the transit peptides of imported proteins. Our findings suggest that plastid localized ZR-like proteins are a specific acquirement of land plants and green algae, with green algae encoding single proteins of the HEP2-type, and higher plants and mosses evolving two different types of plastidic ZR proteins, i.e., the ZR1- and the ZR2-type. Strongest similarities of plant mitochondrial ZR3 proteins were observed to members of the mitochondrial HEP subgroup which encompasses HEP1 from yeast, HEP from human, and putative HEP-like proteins from animals. Plant mitochondrial ZR3 proteins can hence be speculated to be HEP1 counterparts in the plant kingdom. Due to their occurrence in phylogenetically diverse groups of organisms, the members of the ZR/HEP protein family are likely to participate in elementary biological processes in mitochondria and plastids. The observed protein similarities between the amino acid sequences of ZR3 and HEP proteins suggest that the mitochondrial ZR3 and perhaps plastidial ZR1 and ZR2 proteins are land plant analogs of HSP70 interactor proteins, e.g., HEP1 from yeast and HEP2 from C. reinhardtii. In an initial approach to address this question we investigated whether the mitochondrial protein ZR3 from Arabidopsis and mitochondrial HEP1 from yeast possess comparable functions at the molecular level, although amino acid identity between both mature proteins is only 24% (CITATION ). Mitochondrial HSP70 (SSC1) and HEP1 from yeast were shown to be specific in vitro interactors CITATION. To test whether ZR3 from Arabidopsis binds to mitochondrial HSP70 we performed co-precipitation assays with the respective HSP70 proteins. The Arabidopsis HSP70 gene family consists of at least 12 members CITATION. Two of these, mtHsc70-1 (TAIR AT4G37910) and mtHsc70–2 (TAIR: AT5G09590), encode proteins that are predicted to be targeted to the mitochondrial matrix CITATION. The amino acid similarity between both proteins is 89%. When HIS-tagged mtHSC70-1 and mtHSC70-2, respectively, and STREP-tagged ZR3 were individually expressed in E. coli cells, mtHSC70-1 could be shown to interact with ZR3 in a pulldown experiment with mixed soluble protein extracts (CITATION A). On the contrary, mtHSC70-2 was hardly found in the soluble E. coli protein fraction (CITATIONB) and did not co-purify with ZR3 (data not shown). Since studies in yeast have shown that HEP1 promotes HSP70 solubility in vivo, we co-expressed mtHSC70-2 and ZR3 in E. coli. As shown in CITATIONC (‘Input’), solubility of mtHSC70-2 was significantly increased after co-expression with ZR3. Moreover, mtHSC70-2 could be co-precipitated with ZR3 from the soluble protein fraction under these conditions. For comparison we examined the interaction of ZR3 with the two different cpHSC70–1 and cpHSC70–2 found in the plastid stroma. Both proteins are soluble after heterologous expression in E. coli and display in vitro ATPase activity CITATION. cpHSC70 and mtHSC70 proteins share sequence similarities of 63%. In contrast to mtHSC70 proteins, both HIS-tagged plastidial HSC70 proteins did not co-precipitate with ZR3 from mixed soluble protein extracts after individual expression in E. coli cells (CITATIONC). In summary, our results indicate that ZR3 specifically interacts with both mtHSC70 proteins in vitro. Furthermore, our data suggest, that ZR3 promotes mtHSP70 solubility. To study whether Arabidopsis ZR3 and yeast HEP1 (YNL310C; GenBank ID: AAS56692) fulfill similar functions in vivo, we tried to rescue a temperature sensitive hep1 mutant from the Euroscarf collection (Δhep1) by ZR3 expression. As a prerequisite of Δhep1 complementation by Arabidopsis ZR3 we demonstrated proper import of the plant precursor protein into yeast mitochondria by GFP fusion studies (CITATION A). The hep1 mutant strain used in this study is among others that are able to grow slowly at 28°C on fermentable medium but are inviable at 37°C and on non-fermentative medium (CITATIOND) CITATION. Lethality of hep1 mutant strains is apparently caused by secondary defects acquired by these strains as a consequence of HEP1 inactivation CITATION. The pleiotropic defects in mitochondria, e.g. inhibition of protein import and defective biogenesis of Fe/S proteins, lead to an altered mitochondrial morphology and a loss of mitochondrial DNA (CITATIONB and C) CITATION. Hence, simple genetic complementation of the Δhep1 mutant strain was not possible (data not shown). To overcome this obstacle we reintroduced intact mitochondria into the Δhep1 strain by mating with a wild type. Proteins that were analyzed for Δhep1 complementation were expressed in parallel to the mating procedure. After sporulation, resulting haploid colonies were assayed for the presence of the genomic Δhep1 allele, the plasmid-encoded gene, mitochondrial DNA, and the phenotype. The usability of this strategy was confirmed by showing that the Δhep1 mutant is completely rescued by expression of a plasmid-encoded native HEP1 (Δhep1 pHep1; CITATIONB–D). When ZR3 was expressed in the Δhep1 mutant background (Δhep1 pAtZR3; CITATIOND), resulting strains were indistinguishable from the wild type, or the Δhep1 pHep1 control. Phenotype and presence of mitochondrial DNA were found to be stably inherited over consecutive cycles of restreaking under non-permissive conditions (CITATIONB and C). In contrast, Δhep1 cells lost their mitochondrial DNA rapidly after sporulation when they were transformed with only the empty plasmid (Δhep1 pEmpty; CITATIONB and C). Accordingly, lethality of these cells was high under non-permissive growth conditions and increased further during cultivation time (CITATIOND). Similar observations were reported for the hep1 mutant strain Zim17-2 after this strain was shifted to a non-permissive temperature for the first time CITATION. In summary, our results indicate that expression of Arabidopsis ZR3 is sufficient to reconstitute the biological function of HEP1 in the yeast Δhep1 mutant.
!~MM~! For this study, comparison of ZR sequences was achieved by using neighbor-joining bootstrap analysis. ORFs of Arabidopsis ZR proteins were obtained by RT-PCR and subcloned to generate binary GFP constructs, or constructs for protein expression in E. coli or yeast, respectively. Expression and isolation of recombinant proteins for in vitro pulldown assays were performed according to manufacturer instructions. For functional complementation of yeast HEP1 the deletion strain FY1679–11a Δhep1 (herein further referred to as Δhep1) and the corresponding wild type FY1679-11a (Euroscarf, Germany) were used. Details of Materials and Methods can be found in CITATION.
