!~ABS~! Gibberellins (GAs) are plant hormones involved in the regulation of plant growth in response to endogenous and environmental signals. GA promotes growth by stimulating the degradation of nuclear growth–repressing DELLA proteins. In Arabidopsis thaliana, DELLAs consist of a small family of five proteins that display distinct but also overlapping functions in repressing GA responses. This study reveals that DELLA RGA-LIKE3 (RGL3) protein is essential to fully enhance the jasmonate (JA)-mediated responses. We show that JA rapidly induces RGL3 expression in a CORONATINE INSENSITIVE1 (COI1)– and JASMONATE INSENSITIVE1 (JIN1/MYC2)–dependent manner. In addition, we demonstrate that MYC2 binds directly to RGL3 promoter. Furthermore, we show that RGL3 (like the other DELLAs) interacts with JA ZIM-domain (JAZ) proteins, key repressors of JA signaling. These findings suggest that JA/MYC2-dependent accumulation of RGL3 represses JAZ activity, which in turn enhances the expression of JA-responsive genes. Accordingly, we show that induction of primary JA-responsive genes is reduced in the rgl3-5 mutant and enhanced in transgenic lines overexpressing RGL3. Hence, RGL3 positively regulates JA-mediated resistance to the necrotroph Botrytis cinerea and susceptibility to the hemibiotroph Pseudomonas syringae. We propose that JA-mediated induction of RGL3 expression is of adaptive significance and might represent a recent functional diversification of the DELLAs.
!~RES~! To address the biological function of RGL3, we first surveyed its expression pattern using the ATTED-II Network Drawer, which predicts regulatory networks based on coexpressed genes determined from public microarray analyses (CITATION). Bioinformatics study revealed that RGL3 is tightly coregulated with JA-related genes, including JAZs (JAZ2, JAZ3, JAZ6, JAZ9, and JAZ10), thus suggesting that JA regulates RGL3 expression (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To confirm these data, we analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) the induction kinetics of the five Arabidopsis DELLA genes (GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, and RGL3) in 7-d-old seedlings treated with 50 μM of methyl jasmonate (MeJA). We found that JA transiently induced RGL3 (and to a lesser extent RGL1), with RGL3 reaching its maximum induction after 1 h of JA treatment (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). DELLA proteins are subject to destabilization in the presence of GA (CITATION). Thus, we assessed whether JA-mediated transient induction of RGL3 was accompanied by an increase in RGL3 protein accumulation. To this end, we generated a translational fusion with the full-length RGL3 cDNA fused to the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) open reading frame downstream of the RGL3 promoter (pRGL3:RGL3-GFP). By protein gel blotting using an anti-GFP antibody, we found that JA rapidly enhanced the accumulation of RGL3-GFP protein in 7-d-old pRGL3:RGL3-GFP transgenic seedlings (Figure 1B). Furthermore, the level of RGL3-GFP accumulation was maintained over 24 h of JA treatment (Figure 1B). To visualize in planta the accumulation of RGL3 proteins, we next generated a line expressing a RGL3–β-glucuronidase (GUS) translational fusion driven by the RGL3 promoter (pRGL3:RGL3-GUS). In 3-week-old plants, trace levels of RGL3-GUS were visible only in the shoot apices (Figure 1C). In the presence of JA, RGL3-GUS expression was elevated throughout the plant, mainly in the petiole and the vasculature of the leaves. Thus, JA induces RGL3 expression rapidly and broadly within the plant. [[FIGURE]] Next, to investigate whether JA modulated the GA-mediated degradation of RGL3 proteins, we examined the half-life of RGL3-GFP (in 7-d-old p35S:RGL3-GFP seedlings) in the presence of cycloheximide (CHX), a chemical blocking protein synthesis. As previously reported, the level of RGL3-GFP proteins was significantly reduced 2 h after CHX treatment, and the kinetic of RGL3-GFP degradation was accelerated in the presence of 50 μM of gibberellic acid (GA3) (see Supplemental Figure 3 online) (CITATION). JA alone or combined with GA3 did slightly delay the kinetics of RGL3-GFP degradation in comparison with the controls, in the absence and presence of GA3, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 3 online) (CITATION). However, we showed that JA did not statistically alter the content of the biologically active GA, GA4 (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Thus, overall, these results indicate that JA rapidly enhances RGL3 protein accumulation essentially via induction of the gene transcripts. JA activates JA responses by stimulating the SCFCOI1-dependent degradation of the JAZ proteins, thereby releasing MYC2 to promote JA-induced gene expression (CITATION; CITATION). Here, we demonstrated that JA-induced RGL3 expression works via the COI1/MYC2-dependent signaling pathway (Figure 2). Loss-of-function coi1-1 confers stabilization of JAZs and impairs responsiveness to JA (CITATION; CITATION). We found that JA-mediated induction of RGL3 was abolished in the coi1-1 mutant, indicating that RGL3 is downstream of COI1 (Figure 2A). We next investigated the responsiveness of RGL3 to JA in the myc2/jin1-8 mutant. We found that RGL3 expression was partially insensitive to JA (Figure 2B). The Arabidopsis genome encodes two close MYC2 homologs, MYC3 and MYC4, which have an additive effect on the activation of the JA responses (CITATION). As in the myc2 mutant, JA-mediated induction of RGL3 was significantly impaired in the myc3 mutant and to a lesser extent in the myc4 mutant. In addition, the responsiveness of RGL3 to JA was completely impaired in the triple myc2 myc3 myc4 mutant (Figure 2B). Altogether, these results indicate that MYC2/MYC3/MYC4 proteins act redundantly in the activation of RGL3 in response to JA. [[FIGURE]] MYC2/MYC3/MYC4 proteins are bHLH transcriptional factors that specifically bind to G-box (CACGTG) or G-box–like motifs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We found five G-box–related motifs (two CACATG and three CACGTT boxes) within the 1.5-kb promoter of RGL3 (Figure 3A). To investigate whether MYC2 binds directly to the RGL3 promoter, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with the jin1-8 pMYC2:MYC2-FLAG transgenic line described previously (CITATION). After immunoprecipitation of protein–DNA complexes using an antibody against the FLAG epitope, enriched DNA sequences were amplified by quantitative PCR (qPCR) using primers that annealed near the G-box–like motifs present in the RGL3 promoter. A genomic fragment of ACTIN2 was also amplified as a negative control, and the promoter of JAZ1 was amplified as a positive control (CITATION). We performed ChIP assays on plants that had been treated for 4 h with 50 μM of MeJA to induce MYC2-FLAG expression (and on controls without JA treatment). As shown in Figure 3A, we found an enrichment of the F3 region of the RGL3 promoter, indicating that RGL3 is a direct target of MYC2. To confirm the specificity of the FLAG antibody, we also performed ChIP assays on nontransgenic jin1-8 mutant, and we did not find an enrichment of the same promoter region by qPCR (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). [[FIGURE]] To validate further the interaction of MYC2 with the RGL3 promoter, we next conducted a DNA electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) with a recombinant maltose binding protein (MBP)-MYC2 protein produced in Escherichia coli and affinity-purified. We found that MBP-MYC2 fusion proteins (but not MBP alone) were able to bind a DNA probe containing the CACATG G-box–like motif located near the F3 region of the RGL3 promoter (Figure 3B). Furthermore, unlabeled DNA probes competed for binding in a dose-dependent manner, but the DNA probes containing the mutant form of the CACATG motif did not (Figure 3B). Together, these results reveal that MYC2 regulates RGL3 expression through a direct association with its promoter. Recent studies reported the interaction of the DELLA proteins with JAZ proteins, providing a mechanism by which DELLAs contribute to JA signaling (CITATION; CITATION). By fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) analysis of nuclei in transiently transformed Nicotiana benthamiana cells, we showed the direct interaction of RGL3 with two phylogenetically distant JAZ isoforms, JAZ1 and JAZ8 (a JAZ resistant to JA-mediated degradation; CITATION) with a fluorescence resonance energy transfer of 10.9 and 9.4%, respectively (Figures 4A and 4C). We also showed the direct interaction of RGL3 with JAZ1 and JAZ8 by yeast two-hybrid assays (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This latest result contrasts with those from CITATION, who did not observe an interaction between RGL3 and JAZ8 in yeast. Moreover, coimmunoprecipitation studies further confirmed an in vivo interaction of RGL3 with JAZ1 and with JAZ8 (Figures 4B and 4D). Taken together, our results demonstrate that RGL3 interacts in planta with various JAZ proteins and therefore suggest that JA-mediated induction of RGL3 transcripts is critical to enhance the JA responses. [[FIGURE]] To investigate further the biological function of RGL3, we identified a new rgl3 mutant allele (SALK_082546), hereafter called rgl3-5 (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). We speculated that lack of RGL3 activity would reduce or delay the induction of MYC2-dependent gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we compared the kinetics of induction of typical MYC2-regulated genes (including two MYC2 direct targets, LOX2 and TAT1; CITATION) in 3-week-old wild-type and rgl3-5 plants treated with JA. We found that the rgl3-5 mutant exhibited reduced induction levels of VSP2, TAT1, and LOX2 transcripts in comparison with the wild type (Figure 5A). Thus, RGL3 is essential to fully enhance JA-induced MYC2-dependent gene expression. Consistent with this result, overexpression of RGL3 (in p35S:RGL3-GFP transgenic line) constitutively enhanced the expression of VSP2, TAT1, and LOX2 in comparison with the wild type (Figure 5B). Thus, JA enhances MYC2 transcriptional activity by a dual mechanism. First, JA stimulates the SCFCOI1-dependent degradation of the JAZs, thus releasing MYC2 transcriptional activity. Second, JA (in a MYC2-dependent fashion) enhances the accumulation of RGL3, which in turn sequesters JAZs into inactive complexes unable to restrain MYC2 transcriptional activity (CITATION). This second regulatory mechanism is likely to play a prominent role in modulating the activity of the JAZs that are relatively resistant to JA-mediated degradation, such as JAZ8 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The JA signaling pathway performs a critical role in plant defense. JA is the major signaling molecule implicated in plant resistance to necrotrophic pathogens (CITATION). For example, mutants impaired in JA production exhibit enhanced susceptibility to the necrotrophic fungus B. cinerea (CITATION; CITATION). To address the biological role of RGL3 in JA-mediated plant defense responses, we first examined the expression pattern of RGL3 in rosette leaves of 6-week-old plants inoculated with B. cinerea spores over a time-course experiment. We found that RGL3 was broadly induced and accumulated throughout the leaves 24 to 48 h after inoculation (Figures 6A and 6B). Next, we assessed whether RGL3 modulates JA-dependent plant defense responses. To this end, we inoculated leaves of 6-week-old wild-type and rgl3-5 mutant plants with B. cinerea spores and examined disease symptoms 2 d after inoculation. rgl3-5 mutant plants were found to be more susceptible to B. cinerea, because they presented larger lesions compared with wild-type infected plants (Figure 6C). Consistent with this, the increased severity of the disease symptoms in rgl3-5 mutant plants correlated with increased pathogen content (Figure 6D). Finally, we monitored the kinetics of JA-responsive gene induction (including the pathogen-responsive PLANT DEFENSIN1.2 [PDF1.2] and ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR1 [ERF1] genes; CITATION), in wild-type and rgl3-5 mutant plants inoculated with B. cinerea. All the JA-responsive genes tested displayed decreased induction rates in rgl3-5 infected plants compared with wild-type infected plants (Figure 6E). Thus, RGL3 enhances JA-dependent plant defense responses to necrotrophic pathogens. [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed the biological function of RGL3 in response to infection by the hemibiotrophic pathogen P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst). Contrary to necrotrophic pathogens, which activate the JA pathway and trigger a strong defense response, Pst produces a JA-mimicking phytotoxin, coronatine (COR), which can induce a set of JA-responsive genes to promote susceptibility (CITATION). As expected, we found that Pst induced RGL3 expression in leaves 3 d after inoculation (Figures 7A and 7B). Conversely, RGL3 was not induced by a P. syringae strain defective in COR synthesis (Pst COR−), thus indicating that P. syringae uses the COR-dependent pathway to modulate RGL3 expression (Figure 7A). We then analyzed whether the loss-of-function rgl3 mutation altered resistance to P. syringae. Infected rgl3-5 plants displayed an ∼15-fold reduction in bacterial growth at 3 d after inoculation compared with wild-type infected plants (Figures 7C and 7D). Consistent with this, no significant difference in bacterial growth was observed between rgl3-5 and wild-type infected plants with the COR-deficient Pst COR− strain (Figure 7D). [[FIGURE]] SA is the main signaling molecule involved in plant resistance to P. syringae (CITATION). Because the SA pathway is antagonistic to the JA pathway (CITATION), we tested whether the increased resistance of the rgl3-5 mutant to Pst correlated with a hyperinduction of SA-dependent defense genes and a suppression of JA-dependent gene expression, respectively. We found that SA-dependent PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 (PR1) transcripts displayed stronger induction in infected leaves of rgl3-5 versus the wild type, indicating that RGL3 represses the SA pathway (Figure 7E). Conversely, the induction of JA-dependent gene expression, including PDF1.2, TAT1, and LOX2, was severely compromised in rgl3-5 infected leaves in comparison with wild-type infected leaves (Figure 7E). Altogether, these results indicate that RGL3 modulates plant defense to pathogens via its positive regulation of JA signaling.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 is the genetic background for all mutant lines. rgl3-5 (SALK_082546) and jin1-8 (SALK_061267) mutant lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre resource center. The mutants coi1-1, myc3, myc4, myc2 myc3 myc4, and the transgenic line jin1-8 pMYC2:MYC2-FLAG have been previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis Sf-2 and Can-0 accessions were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre resource center. Plants were grown on soil (12-h light/12-h dark; 22°C) or on plates containing 1× Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa Biochemical), 0.5% Suc, and 1% agar under a 16-h photoperiod at 22°C. For hormone treatments, 7-d-old seedlings grown in Murashige and Skoog liquid medium or 3-week-old plantlets grown on soil were treated with 50 μM of MeJA (Duchefa Biochemical) or 50 μM of GA3 (Sigma-Aldrich) for the time indicated. pRGL3:RGL3 fragment was PCR amplified from ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) genomic DNA with appropriate primers encompassing 1.5-kb promoter region of RGL3. Subsequently, the fragment was inserted into pDONR207 (Invitrogen) by Gateway cloning methods and then recombined with the plant binary vectors pMDC204 (CITATION) and pBGWFS7 (CITATION) to generate the pRGL3:RGL3-GUS and pRGL3:RGL3-GFP constructs, respectively. RGL3 coding sequence was PCR amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA, subsequently inserted into pDONR207 and recombined with pB7FWG2 (CITATION) to generate p35S:RGL3-GFP. The N-terminal part of the DELLA proteins is subject to autoactivation in yeast two-hybrid assays (CITATION); therefore, only the C-terminal domain of RGL3 (amino acids 140 to 523) was cloned and recombined with pGBT9 (Clontech) to generate BD-RGL3. The JAZ1 and JAZ8 cDNAs were amplified by RT-PCR, subsequently inserted into pDONR207, and recombined with pB7WGR2 (CITATION) to generate p35S:red fluorescent protein (RFP)-JAZ1 and p35S:RFP-JAZ8 or with pGADT7 (Clontech) to generate AD-JAZ1 and AD-JAZ8. Finally, MYC2 coding sequence was amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA, inserted into pDONR207, and recombined with the Escherichia coli expression vector pHMGWA (CITATION) to express His-tagged MBP-MYC2 protein. Primers used for the cloning are listed in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. The plant binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 strain by electroporation, and Arabidopsis Ler plants were transformed by floral dip. Total RNA was extracted using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) following the user manual. First, 2 μg of total RNA were treated with two units of DNase I (Promega) and then were reverse transcribed in a total volume of 40 μL with 2 μM of oligo(dT)20, 0.5 mM of deoxynucleotide triphosphate, 5 mM of DTT, and 200 units of Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). qRT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers in a total volume of 6 μL of SYBR Green Master mix (Roche) on a Lightcycler LC480 apparatus (Roche) according to manufacturer’s instructions. The GAPDH and TIP41-like genes were used as internal reference genes. The relative expression level of each gene was calculated using Lightcycler 480 software, release 1.5.0 SP3, and averaged over three replicates. qRT-PCR analyses were performed on at least two biological repeats. qRT-PCR primers used are listed in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. pRGL3:RGL3-GFP seedlings that were 7 d old and inoculated with 50 μM of MeJA for the time indicated were ground in 2× SDS-PAGE buffer and then boiled for 5 min. After centrifugation, the protein extracts were fractionated on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel and blotted onto membrane. Immunoblots were performed using a 10,000-fold dilution of anti-GFP-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) antibodies (MACS Miltenyi Biotec). Signals were detected by film (within linear range of detection) using the Luminata Forte Western HRP Substrate (Millipore). The blot was subsequently stripped with 0.2 N of Gly, pH 2.5, and reprobed with anti-cdc2 (PSTAIRE) antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) for loading control. The immunoblot assay was repeated three times. For the determination of protein half-life, 7-d-old p35S:RGL3-GFP were incubated with 100 μM of CHX (Fluka Analytical) to inhibit protein synthesis. A total of 50 μM of GA3 and/or 50 μM of MeJA were added with CHX when indicated. After incubation for 0 to 180 min, seedlings were frozen in liquid nitrogen, and total proteins were extracted as described above. Immunoblotting was performed with anti-GFP-HRP in the same fashion as described above. Histochemical detection of GUS activity was performed on 3-week-old (MeJA induction assay) or 6-week-old (pathogen assays) pRGL3:RGL3-GUS plants using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (X-Gluc) as a substrate. Plants were placed in 80% acetone on ice for 10 min, then infiltrated in X-Gluc buffer solution (500 μg/mL of X-Gluc; 50 mM of sodium phosphate, pH 7; 10 mM of EDTA; 0.01% Triton X-100) for 10 min and incubated at 37°C overnight. ChIP assays were performed on 7-d-old jin1-8 pMYC2:MYC2-FLAG seedlings as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, chromatin was immunoprecipitated with anti-FLAG antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich) together with protein A magnetic beads (Millipore). ChIP experiments using mouse IgG were performed as negative controls. The resulting ChIP DNA was subjected to qPCR analysis. Enrichment of promoter regions was averaged over three replicates and normalized using ACTIN2. Enrichment of a JAZ1 promoter fragment was used as positive control. ChIP-qPCR analyses were performed on two independent biological repeats with several technical repeats. qPCR primers used are listed in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. The His-tagged MBP-MYC2 recombinant protein was expressed in the Rosetta 2 (DE3) pLysS (Novagen) E. coli strain by induction with 0.25 mM of isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyramoside for 4 h at 20°C. The recombinant MBP-MYC2 protein was purified binding onto a Ni-NTA column (His60 Ni Superflow; Clontech) and eluted with 500 mM of imidazole. Elution buffer was replaced by EMSA buffer (15 mM of HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5; 40 mM of KCl; 0.1 mM of dithiothreitol; 10% glycerol) by filtration through a Sephadex-G25 HiTrap column (GE Healthcare Life Sciences). Oligonucleotide probe containing the G-box–like motif was end-filled labeled with the Klenow enzyme (Fermentas) in the presence of 32P-dCTP. The sequence of the oligonucleotides is indicated in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. The EMSA reaction was performed with 1 ng of 32P-labeled probe, 2 μg of poly(dI-dC), and 100 ng of MBP-MYC2 fusion proteins (or MBP as control) and was incubated at room temperature for 20 min. The binding reactions were analyzed by electrophoresis on 6% native acrylamide gels in 0.5× TBE buffer. After drying, the gels were subjected to autoradiography and were exposed at −80°C overnight. Interaction assays in yeast were performed following the Clontech small-scale LiAc yeast transformation procedure. Yeast strain AH109 was cotransformed with BD-RGL3 (amino acids 140 to 523) and AD-JAZ1 or AD-JAZ8 or empty vector, and interaction tests were surveyed on selective media lacking Leu, Trp, Ade, and His (Clontech). Coimmunoprecipitation assays of RGL3 and JAZ1 or JAZ8 proteins were performed on Nicotiana benthamiana agroinfiltrated leaves with p35S:RGL3-GFP and p35S:RFP-JAZ1 or p35S:RFP-JAZ8 constructs. Total proteins were extracted in Lysis buffer containing 50 mM of Tris-HCl, pH 8, 150 mM of NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitors (Roche), and then incubated for 2 h at 4°C with 50 μL of anti-GFP antibody conjugated to micro beads (μMACS GFP-tagged beads; Miltenyi Biotec). μMACS GFP-tagged beads were retained and washed onto a magnetic column system (M columns; Miltenyi Biotec) to recover the immunoprotein complexes according to the manufacturer’s instructions. RGL3 and JAZ1 or JAZ8 proteins bound to the beads were resolved by SDS-PAGE and detected by anti-GFP-HRP (Miltenyi Biotec) or anti-RFP antibody (Clontech) followed by a goat anti-rabbit-HRP antibody (Invitrogen). Confocal microscopy images were obtained with a Zeiss LSM510 inverted confocal laser microscope with 40× objectives. The excitation wavelength for GFP and RFP detection was 488 and 561 nm, respectively. Fluorescence was determined on N. benthamiana agroinfiltrated leaves with p35S:RGL3-GFP and p35S:RFP-JAZ1 or p35S:RFP-JAZ8 constructs. FLIM was performed using a Nikon TE2000 microscope connected to a LiFA FLIM system. Fluorescence lifetime was measured using the LiFLIM software version 1.2.8. on N. benthamiana agroinfiltrated leaves expressing RGL3-GFP (control) and coexpressing RGL3-GFP and RFP-JAZ1 or RFP-JAZ8 proteins. At least 60 nuclei per condition were analyzed. Pathogen inoculation assays were performed on 6-week-old plants (12-h light/12-h dark). Botrytis cinerea (5 × 105 spores/mL in one-half potato dextrose broth [Duchefa Biochemical]) inoculation was performed by placing 5-μL droplets onto fully expanded leaves. Disease symptoms were scored 2 d after inoculation. RNA and DNA analyses were conducted on 8-mm leaf disks centered on the infection site of at least 30 leaves per genotype. For in planta quantification of pathogen growth, DNA content of B. cinerea was compared with plant DNA by comparing the abundance of the fungal CUTINASE gene to the Arabidopsis-specific ACTIN2 DNA by qPCR analysis as described in CITATION. The bacterial strains used in this study were Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst) and Pst COR−. Bacterial inoculations were performed by spraying at a concentration of 2 × 108 colony-forming units/mL. RNA and DNA analyses were conducted on whole mature leaves from six different plants. Quantification of bacterial growth was determined by relative quantification of bacteria and plant DNA by comparing the abundance of P. syringae oprf gene with plant ACTIN2 by means of qPCR analysis as in CITATION. Primer sequences are detailed in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. Work with pathogens was repeated at least five times, and similar results were obtained. GA4 were extracted from 3-week-old plants by adding 2 mL of ice-cold acetone to 600 mg of ground fresh whole plant material. The mixture was agitated at 4°C for 20 min at 1300 rpm and then centrifuged at 4°C for 20 min at 16,000g. The supernatant was separated and completely evaporated under argon on ice. After resuspension with 130 μL of methanol, GA4 contents were measured by ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry as described in Supplemental Methods 1 online. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At2g01570 (RGA), At1g14920 (GAI), At1g66350 (RGL1), At3g03450 (RGL2), At5g17490 (RGL3), At1g32640 (MYC2/JIN1), At5g46740 (MYC3), At4g17880 (MYC4), At2g39940 (COI1), At1g19180 (JAZ1), At1g30135 (JAZ8), At5g24770 (VSP2), At4g23600 (TAT1), At3g45140 (LOX2), AT3G23240 (ERF1), AT5G44420 (PDF1.2), and At2g14610 (PR1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Coexpression Analysis of RGL3. Supplemental Figure 2. JA Induces RGL3 Expression. Supplemental Figure 3. Effect of GA and JA on RGL3-GFP Protein Abundance. Supplemental Figure 4. Effect of JA on GA4 Levels. Supplemental Figure 5. Negative Control of ChIP Experiments. Supplemental Figure 6. RGL3 Interacts with JAZ1 and JAZ8 in Yeast. Supplemental Figure 7. Characterization of rgl3-5 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 8. Natural Variation of RGL3 Expression. Supplemental Methods 1. GA4 Extraction and Quantification. Supplemental Data Set 1. DNA Primer Sequences Used in the Study.
