!~ABS~! The timing of the transition to flowering in plants is regulated by various environmental factors, including daylength and light quality. Although the red/far-red photoreceptor phytochrome B (phyB) represses flowering by indirectly regulating the expression of a key flowering regulator, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), the mechanism of phyB signaling for flowering is largely unknown. Here, we identified two Arabidopsis thaliana genes, VASCULAR PLANT ONE–ZINC FINGER1 (VOZ1) and VOZ2, which are highly conserved throughout land plant evolution, as phyB-interacting factors. voz1 voz2 double mutants, but neither single mutant, showed a late-flowering phenotype under long-day conditions, which indicated that VOZ1 and VOZ2 redundantly promote flowering. voz1 voz2 mutations suppressed the early-flowering phenotype of the phyB mutant, and FT expression was repressed in the voz1 voz2 mutant. Green fluorescent protein–VOZ2 signal was observed in the cytoplasm, and interaction of VOZ proteins with phyB was indicated to occur in the cytoplasm under far-red light. However, VOZ2 protein modified to localize constitutively in the nucleus promoted flowering. In addition, the stability of VOZ2 proteins in the nucleus was modulated by light quality in a phytochrome-dependent manner. We propose that partial translocation of VOZ proteins from the cytoplasm to the nucleus mediates the initial step of the phyB signal transduction pathway that regulates flowering.
!~RES~! We performed a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify proteins associated with phyB (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Among candidates for phyB-interacting factors were VOZ1 and VOZ2, which have a zinc-finger motif and transcriptional activator activities (CITATION). VOZ1 and VOZ2 belong to the subgroup VIII-2 of the NAC proteins, which comprise one of the largest transcription factor families in plants (CITATION). In vitro pull-down experiments also confirmed the interaction of phyB with VOZ1 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To evaluate the functions of VOZ1 and VOZ2 in phytochrome signaling in vivo, we examined phenotypes of T-DNA insertional mutants of voz1 (voz1-1 and voz1-2) and voz2 (voz2-1 and voz2-2) (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). No transcripts were detected for the voz1-1, voz1-2, and voz2-2 alleles (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The voz2-1 mutant allele carries a T-DNA insertion that interrupts the first intron upstream of the start codon. In the voz2-1 mutant, only 5′-truncated transcripts were detected (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). To examine the effect of this T-DNA insertion on VOZ2 protein levels, we performed protein gel blot analysis using anti-VOZ2 antibodies. No VOZ2 protein signal was detected in voz2-1 or voz2-2 mutants, which indicated that both mutants are loss-of-function alleles (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). We then examined whether the single and double mutants of voz1 and voz2 showed any visible phenotypes. The double mutants showed an apparent late-flowering phenotype under normal growth conditions. The flowering time of the mutants was measured under different photoperiods (Figures 1A and 1B; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Under both LD and SD conditions, none of the single mutants showed a significant difference in flowering time. To test the possibility of functional overlap of VOZ1 and VOZ2, we analyzed two lines of double mutants (voz1-1 voz2-1 and voz1-2 voz2-2). Both double mutants showed a late-flowering phenotype under LD conditions. Under SD conditions, the voz1-2 voz2-2, but not voz1-1 voz2-1, mutant displayed a delayed flowering time when measured as number of days to bolting (Figure 1B), which suggested that the voz1-2 voz2-2 mutant exhibited developmental retardation under SD conditions. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed flowering phenotypes were caused by the defective VOZ genes, we performed complementation experiments. Either construct that carried a genomic fragment of VOZ1 or VOZ2 rescued the flowering time defect in the voz1-1 voz2-1 double mutant (Figure 1C). This result indicated that VOZ1 and VOZ2 regulate flowering time redundantly. We did not observe other phytochrome-related phenotypes in the mutants. The hypocotyl length of voz1, voz2, and voz1 voz2 mutants was unaltered compared with that of wild-type seedlings under both red and far-red light conditions (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The voz1, voz2, and voz1 voz2 mutants also displayed normal plant architecture (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), and the accumulation levels of pigments such as chlorophyll and anthocyanin were largely unaffected (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). To examine the genetic relationship between phyB and VOZ1/VOZ2 in the flowering pathway, we measured the flowering time in the phyB voz1-1 voz2-1 triple mutant and the phyB mutant. The voz1-1 voz2-1 double mutation completely suppressed the early-flowering phenotype of the phyB mutant under both LD and SD conditions (Figures 1D and 1E), which strongly suggested that VOZ1 and VOZ2 are essential for phyB regulation of flowering time. The elongated petiole, leaf hyponasty, and reduced leaf area phenotypes of the phyB mutant were unaffected in the phyB voz1-1 voz2-1 mutant (Figures 1F to 1I). This result, together with the normal hypocotyl length phenotype and complete suppression of the phyB early-flowering phenotype, suggested that VOZ1 and VOZ2 function downstream of phyB specifically in the flowering pathway. Since VOZ proteins interact with phyB, and phyB represses FT expression in leaves (CITATION; CITATION), VOZ1 and VOZ2 were predicted to function in leaves. Organ-specific expression of VOZ1 and VOZ2 was not discriminated clearly by RT-PCR analysis (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). We isolated mesophyll protoplasts and vascular bundles from cotyledons to examine tissue-specific expression of VOZ1 and VOZ2 in leaves. We used tissue-specific expression marker genes, ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit (RBCS) for mesophyll cells and SUCROSE-PROTON SYMPORTER2 (SUC2) for vascular bundles, to verify separation of the tissues (CITATION; CITATION). RBCS expression in the mesophyll sample was ∼2.7 times higher than that in the vascular bundle sample, whereas SUC2 expression was detected predominantly in the vascular bundle sample (see Supplemental Figure 7 online), which demonstrated separation of the tissues of interest. VOZ1 was readily detectable in vascular bundles but not in mesophyll cells (Figure 2A), whereas VOZ2 was expressed in mesophyll cells as well as vascular bundles (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] To monitor the temporal and spatial expression patterns of VOZ1 and VOZ2, we generated transgenic lines that expressed translational fusions of the VOZ genomic fragment to the bacterial uidA gene, which encodes β-glucuronidase (GUS), driven by the VOZ promoter in the voz1-1 voz2-1 mutant. The late-flowering phenotype of the voz1-1 voz2-1 mutant was complemented in all of the five independent ProVOZ:GUS-VOZ lines examined (see Supplemental Figure 7 online), and the GUS staining pattern was consistent among lines carrying the construct. Consistent with the results of mRNA expression patterns, GUS-VOZ1 signals were detected exclusively in the phloem, whereas GUS-VOZ2 signals were detected in the leaf as a whole (Figures 2C to 2L; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). The expression patterns of GUS-VOZ proteins remain unchanged during vegetative growth (Figures 2C to 2J). Given that VOZ1 and VOZ2 redundantly regulate flowering (Figure 1C) and that both are expressed in vascular bundles, the functional site of VOZ1 and VOZ2 for flowering was indicated to be the vascular bundles. To investigate how VOZ1 and VOZ2 regulate flowering, we examined their role in the regulation of key genes that affect flowering time. FT is an integrator of several flowering pathways and has been proposed to be downregulated by phyB (CITATION). We first analyzed the diurnal expression patterns of FT in cotyledons and rosette leaves using 10-d-old seedlings grown under LD conditions. As reported previously, FT expression in wild-type plants was maximal ∼16 h after dawn under LD conditions (CITATION) (Figures 3A and 3B). However, FT expression was repressed significantly in the voz1 voz2 mutant, and the peak observed in late daytime in wild-type plants was eliminated. This repression of FT expression was observed in the cotyledons and rosette leaves, although the repression was more prominent in rosette leaves (Figures 3A and 3B). [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the expression levels of FT upstream factors. CO is a key factor of the photoperiod pathway and known to be an activator of FT expression. The CO expression pattern was similar in wild-type plants and the voz1 voz2 mutant (Figures 3C and 3D), but the peaks of CO expression in rosette leaves in late daytime and at midnight were less prominent in the voz1 voz2 mutant (Figure 3C). FLC is a floral repressor that functions in the autonomous and vernalization pathways and represses FT expression. Intriguingly, FLC expression levels in the voz1 voz2 mutant were remarkably higher than those of wild-type plants throughout the day (Figures 3E and 3F). The difference in FLC expression between wild-type plants and the voz1 voz2 mutant was greater in rosette leaves than in cotyledons (Figures 3E and 3F). These observations suggested that the late-flowering phenotype of the voz1 voz2 mutant is caused by the increase in FLC expression and subsequent decrease in FT expression in leaves. To visualize its subcellular localization, VOZ2 was fused to the C terminus of the green fluorescent protein (GFP). The GFP-VOZ2 coding sequence (CDS) driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter complemented the late-flowering phenotype of the voz1 voz2 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 8 online), which indicated that the fused VOZ2 protein was functional. However, no effects of excessive VOZ2 expression were observed both under LD and SD conditions (see Supplemental Figures 8 and 9 online). We then observed the subcellular localization of GFP-VOZ2 under a laser scanning confocal microscope. In epidermal cells (Figures 4A to 4C), vascular bundle cells (Figures 4D to 4F), and mesophyll cells (Figures 4G to 4L), GFP-VOZ2 signals were detected mainly in the cytoplasm, and their localization was not markedly affected by light quality (red and far-red light) (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). [[FIGURE]] Although GFP-VOZ2 signal was detected mainly in the cytoplasm, the presence of a zinc-finger motif and a NAC domain in VOZ proteins strongly suggested that VOZ1 and VOZ2 function in the nucleus. To investigate this enigma, we analyzed the functional intracellular localization of VOZ2. We fused the GFP-VOZ2 protein to a nuclear localization signal (NLS) or a nuclear export signal (NES) and expressed the fusion proteins in the voz1 voz2 mutant (Figure 5A). The GFP-VOZ2 transcripts were detected in all lines examined, and two each representative lines were checked to overexpress VOZ2 mRNA compared with Columbia (Col) (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). The accumulation level of the GFP-VOZ2-NLS protein was significantly lower than that of the GFP-VOZ2-NES protein (Figure 5B), but the late-flowering phenotype of the voz1 voz2 mutant was complemented in the transgenic lines bearing the NLS construct (Figure 5C). By contrast, the GFP-VOZ2-NES protein was readily detected in the transgenic lines but failed to complement the late-flowering phenotype (Figures 5B and 5C). These results indicated that nuclear localization of the VOZ2 protein is essential for its function in flowering. In addition, together with the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2/voz1 voz2 line, the distinct surplus effect of GFP-VOZ2-NLS overexpression was not observed in the flowering phenotype and flowering gene expression under both LD and SD conditions (Figure 5C; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that VOZ proteins function in the nucleus, we performed a cell fractionation experiment to establish the presence of VOZ proteins in the nucleus. We examined the abundance of the VOZ2 and GFP-VOZ2 proteins in the cytosolic and nuclear fraction isolated from 10-d-old seedlings of Col and the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2/voz1 voz2 line, respectively. Protein blot analysis using antibodies specific to the marker proteins confirmed that each fraction was relatively free from contamination. UDP-Glc pyrophosphorylase (UGPase) was detected only in the cytosolic fraction, and histone H3 was present only in the nuclear fraction (Figure 5D). As indicated by the intensity of the histone H3 signal, a portion of the nuclear fraction was lost during handling (Figure 5D). To detect a clear signal in the nuclear fraction, the fraction was concentrated fivefold. Although VOZ2 and GFP-VOZ2 signals were clearly more abundant in the cytosolic fraction than in the nuclear fraction of Col and the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2/voz1 voz2 line, respectively, consistent with our GFP-VOZ2 confocal image data (Figure 4), we detected distinct VOZ2 and GFP-VOZ2 signals in the concentrated nuclear fraction (Figure 5D). Interactions between phyB and VOZ proteins were detected by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis (Figures 6A to 6F), in which plasmids bearing VOZ1 or VOZ2 fused with the N-terminal half of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and PHYB fused with the C-terminal half of YFP were introduced into Nicotiana benthamiana by Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration. The subcellular localization of phyB–VOZ interactions was detected only in the cytoplasm and did not change under red, far-red, and dark conditions (Figures 6A1 to 6E6), whereas phyB is reportedly localized in the nucleus under red light (CITATION; CITATION). In our transient expression experiment using N. benthamiana, nuclear translocalization of phyB-YFP under red light was partial (Figure 6F3), possibly because of an excessive amount of the phyB-YFP protein. It should be noted that phyB-YFP signal under red light in Arabidopsis transgenic lines carrying the same construct was observed only in the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 11 online). These results suggested that the VOZ protein can interact with phyB in the cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interactions between phyB and VOZ proteins in vivo, we performed a coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiment using Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2/voz1 voz2 transgenic plants and the anti-PHYB antibody. We obtained evidence of interaction between GFP-VOZ2 and phyB under far-red light irradiation but not under red light irradiation (Figure 6G). When the Pro35S:GFP line was used as a negative control under far-red light conditions, the phyB signal was not detected (Figure 6H). These co-IP data are consistent with the results from BiFC, which showed that phyB and VOZ proteins interacted in the cytoplasm. Given the abundant cytoplasmic accumulation of GFP-VOZ2 (Figure 4), phyB–VOZ interaction in the cytoplasm (Figure 6), and VOZ function in the nucleus (Figure 5), VOZ might be translocated from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and be subjected to degradation, which could be regulated by light. To examine accumulation of the VOZ protein in the nucleus under different light conditions, wild-type and transgenic plants were exposed either to white, red, or far-red light or the dark for 24 h. In wild-type plants, the amount of VOZ2 protein was slightly reduced under far-red and dark conditions (Figure 7A). By contrast, the amount of GFP-VOZ2-NLS protein in the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS/voz1 voz2 plant was markedly reduced under far-red and dark conditions (Figure 7B), whereas the amount of GFP-VOZ2-NES protein in the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NES/voz1 voz2 plant was not altered by light conditions (Figure 7C). To evaluate the effect of light on VOZ transcription, we compared the mRNA levels of VOZ1 and VOZ2 in the wild type and GFP-VOZ2 in Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS/voz1 voz2 plants under different light conditions. In contrast with their protein products, mRNA levels of VOZ genes and GFP-VOZ2 in the wild type and Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS/voz1 voz2, respectively, were slightly elevated under far-red and dark conditions, except that VOZ1 expression was unaffected in the dark (see Supplemental Figure 12 online). These results suggested that the amount of VOZ proteins is regulated posttranslationally in the nucleus by light. To determine whether any active proteolytic process was involved in the regulation, we treated seedlings of the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS/voz1 voz2 lines with the proteasome inhibitor MG132. The MG132 treatment diminished GFP-VOZ2-NLS degradation under far-red light (Figure 7D), which suggested that the degradation of VOZ proteins in the nucleus is mediated by the proteasome system. In the Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS/voz1 voz2 line, two signals for the GFP-VOZ2-NLS protein were detected (Figures 5B and 7B). To examine the possibility of protein modification by phosphorylation, GFP-VOZ2-NLS was incubated with protein phosphatase. The treatment specifically diminished the larger GFP-VOZ2-NLS form (Figure 7E), thus indicating that a portion of the GFP-VOZ2-NLS protein pool is phosphorylated. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the contribution of phytochromes to the far-red- and dark-induced degradation of VOZ2, we examined native VOZ2 levels in phyA, phyB, and hy1 hy2 mutants. phyA is primarily involved in far-red light sensing. HY1 and HY2 encode the enzymes for phytochrome chromophore biosynthesis; thus, the hy1 hy2 mutant has been used as a mutant with no functional phytochrome members (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). A lower degree of VOZ2 degradation was observed in the phyA and phyB mutants under far-red light (see Supplemental Figure 13 online). Furthermore, the VOZ2 protein level was largely unaffected in the hy1 hy2 mutant compared with the parental ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) under far-red light (Figure 7F). These results suggested that phyA and phyB, as well as the other phytochrome members, are involved in light-dependent VOZ2 degradation.
!~MM~! The wild-type plants used were the Col and Ler accessions. Seeds of the voz1-1, voz1-2, voz2-1, and voz2-2 mutants correspond to the T-DNA insertion strains GABI_418B02, WISCDSLOX489-492O10, SALK_021718, and SALK_115813, respectively. The background accessions of the voz1-1, voz1-2, voz2-1, voz2-2, phyB-9, and phyA-211 mutants are Col and that of the double mutant hy1-1 hy2-1 is Ler. The voz1-1 voz2-1, voz1-2 voz2-2, and phyB-9 voz1-1 voz2-1 mutants were produced by crossing. The constructs in binary vectors were introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 (CITATION). Plants were grown in soil or on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium, chilled for 3 to 4 d at 4°C, and then transferred to growth chambers under LDs (16 h light/8 h dark) or SDs (8 h light/16 h dark) with an illumination rate of 90 to 110 μmol m−2 s−1 of white fluorescent light at 22°C. For red-light treatment, plants were exposed to 30 to 40 μmol m−2 s−1 of red light supplied by fluorescent tubes (FL 20S-Re66; Toshiba) filtered through a 3-mm-thick red acrylic plate (Shinkolite A102; Mitsubishi Rayon). For far-red light treatment, plants were exposed to 35 to 45 μmol m−2 s−1 of far-red light supplied by fluorescent tubes (FL 20S-FR74; Toshiba) filtered through a 3-mm-thick far-red acrylic plate (Deraglass 102; Asahikasei). The light intensity was measured by an optical power meter (Model 1830 C; New Port). For the complementation test, a VOZ1 genomic fragment including 3379 bp of its upstream region and a VOZ2 genomic fragment including 1870 bp of its upstream region were subcloned into the pDONR-221 vector (Invitrogen). These constructs were introduced into the pGWB1 plant expression vector by LR reaction of the Gateway system (Invitrogen). To construct ProVOZ1:GUS-VOZ1, a 3417-bp upstream fragment and the CDS plus introns with its 517-bp downstream fragment were amplified from genomic DNA. A GUS-containing fragment was amplified from pGWB3. The three PCR products were assembled by triple-template PCR (CITATION). This triple-template PCR product was cloned into the pCAMBIA1300 vector. To construct ProVOZ2:GUS-VOZ2, a 1868-bp upstream fragment and the CDS plus introns with its 455-bp downstream fragment were amplified from genomic DNA. These fragments were assembled as described for the ProVOZ1:GUS-VOZ1 construct. The CDS for Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2 was amplified by PCR with cDNA synthesized from purified total RNA. The amplified fragments were subcloned into pENTR/D-TOPO using the Gateway TOPO cloning kit (Invitrogen). This DNA construct was introduced into the pGWB6 vector by the LR reaction of the Gateway system (Invitrogen). For BiFC analysis, CDSs of PHYB, VOZ1, and VOZ2 were subcloned into pENTR/D-TOPO as described above. The PHYB/pENTR/D-TOPO construct was introduced into pB4CY2 and VOZs/pENTR/D-TOPO into pB5NY0 by the LR reaction. To construct Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NLS and Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2-NES, we amplified the VOZ2 sequence with primers fused with the NLS or NES sequence (CITATION). These fragments were subcloned into pENTR/D-TOPO. This DNA construct was introduced into the pGWB6 vector by the LR reaction. pGWB1, pGWB3, and pGWB6 were donated by T. Nakagawa, Shimane University (CITATION). pB4CY2 and pB5NY0 were obtained from S. Mano, National Institute of Basic Biology, Japan. Mesophyll protoplasts and vascular bundles were isolated from 10-d-old seedlings as described by CITATION. Samples were collected at ZT8 for LD-grown plants. For GUS staining, tissues were incubated for 15 min in 90% (v/v) acetone on ice and infiltrated with staining solution (0.5 mg mL−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 5 mM potassium ferricyanide, and 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100) under vacuum for 15 min and incubated at 37°C for ∼15 h in the dark. After staining, samples were cleared in a mixture of ethanol and acetic acid (6:1 [v/v]) for 16 h at room temperature and then cleared in 70% (v/v) ethanol. The GUS histochemical staining was observed with a microscope (SZX16; Olympus). For sectioning, 10-d-old seedlings were incubated for 15 min in 50% (v/v) acetone on ice and then treated with staining solution under vacuum for 15 min and incubated at 37°C for ∼15 h in the dark. After staining, samples were incubated in fixative solution (5% formaldehyde, 5% acetic acid, and 56% ethanol), dehydrated through an ethanol series, embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzer), sectioned at a thickness of 10 μm with a microtome (Microm), and observed with a microscope (FSX100; Olympus). Plants were grown at 22°C for 10 d under LD or continuous white light conditions with fluorescent light and then harvested for RNA isolation at various times. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). Isolated RNA was treated with RNase-free DNase (Qiagen). Reverse transcription was performed on 1 μg total RNA with oligo(dT) primer using the Rever Tra Ace first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Toyobo). Real-time quantitative PCR was performed with the CFX96 real-time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad) using SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa). Expression of ACT2 was used for normalization. The following thermal profile was used for all PCRs: 95°C for 10 s, 40 cycles of 95°C for 5 s, and 60°C for 30 s. RT-PCR was performed with Ex Taq (TaKaRa), and PCR products were separated in agarose gel and visualized by staining with ethidium bromide. Primer sets used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. A confocal laser scanning microscope (FluoView 1000; Olympus) was used to detect green fluorescence from GFP (observation, 500 to 560 nm; excitation, 488 nm) and red autofluorescence from chlorophyll (observation, 650 to 750 nm; excitation, 458 nm). Agrobacterium cultures carrying plasmids for BiFC were grown overnight at 28°C in 10 mL Luria-Bertani plus selective antibiotics, collected by centrifugation, and adjusted to an OD600 of 1.2 in infiltration medium (10 mM MgCl2, 150 μM acetosyringone, and 10 mM MES, pH 5.6). Cells were kept at room temperature in this infiltration medium for 2 to 3 h and then infiltrated into the abaxial air spaces of 3- to 4-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants. After infiltration, plants were kept under continuous white light and then treated with far-red light for 30 min, followed by 6 h of darkness (dark condition). After dark treatment, plants were exposed to red light or far-red light for 6 h. Fluorescence from YFP (observation, 520 to 560 nm; excitation, 515 nm) was observed after the light treatment and ∼30 h after infiltration. Fluorescent signals and bright-field images were captured using a confocal laser scanning microscope (FluoView 1000). Total protein was extracted from seedlings by grinding fresh tissue in buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 1× Complete EDTA-free proteinase inhibitor [Roche]). Proteins were visualized with a standard SDS-PAGE method (6% gel). Protein gel blotting was performed using a standard method (as described in the ECL Plus Reagent protocol; GE Healthcare/Amersham). The VOZ2-specific antibody (prepared using the recombinant GST-fused full-length protein of At-VOZ2 as an antigen) was kindly provided by Masa H. Sato, Kyoto Prefectural University, and was diluted 1:3000. Anti-GFP IgG antibody (Invitrogen) was diluted 1:5000. ECL anti-rabbit IgG antibody (horseradish peroxidase–linked species-specific whole antibody; Amersham) diluted 1:10,000 was used as secondary antibody. Protein blots were visualized using the horseradish peroxidase–based ECL Plus reagent (GE Healthcare/Amersham) with an Image Quant LAS 4010 biomolecular imager (GE Healthcare). The aerial parts of 10-d-old plants (0.3 g) were chopped with a razor blade in a Petri dish on ice in 1 mL chopping buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA, 0.4 M Suc, 1× Complete EDTA-free proteinase inhibitor [Roche], and 50 μM MG132 [Wako Japan]). The homogenate was filtered through a cell strainer (70-μm nylon; BD Biosciences). The filtrate (200 μL) was centrifuged at 1000g for 20 min at 4°C. The supernatant was designated as the cytosolic fraction and diluted to 200 μL volume. The pellet was washed two times in nuclei resuspension buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 25% glycerol, 2.5 mM MgCl2, and 0.5% Triton X-100) (CITATION) and resuspended in 200 μL chopping buffer to generate the nuclear fraction or resuspended in 40 μL chopping buffer to generate a concentrated nuclear fraction. Each fraction was subjected to immunoblot analysis. Anti-UGPase (Agrisera) was diluted 1:2000 and anti-H3 (Active motif) was diluted 1:10,000. Immunoprecipitation was performed with μMACS epitope tag protein isolation kits (Miltenyi Biotec). Pro35S:GFP seeds were kindly provide by Shoji Mano and Mikio Nishimura (CITATION). Whole seedlings of Pro35S:GFP-VOZ2/voz1 voz2 or Pro35S:GFP plants (0.5 g fresh weight) were homogenized with liquid nitrogen and solubilized in 1.2 mL of buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 1% [v/v] Triton X-100, 50 mM NaCl, 3× Complete EDTA-free proteinase inhibitor [Roche], and 80 μM MG132 [Wako Japan]). Homogenates were centrifuged at 10,000g for 20 min at 4°C to remove cellular debris. Then, 1 mL of the supernatant was mixed with 50 μL of magnetic beads conjugated to an anti-GFP antibody (Miltenyi Biotec) and then incubated on ice for 30 min. The mixtures were applied to μColumns (Miltenyi Biotec) in a magnetic field. After four washes with the buffer and one rinse with Wash Buffer 2 (Miltenyi Biotec), the microbeads were eluted with 70 μL of 2× SDS sample buffer (60 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 5% [v/v] SDS, 20% [v/v] glycerol, and 10% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol) to obtain ∼90 μL of bound fraction. The immunoprecipitates were subjected to immunoblot analysis. The volumes of each fraction loaded were T:U:B = 5:5:35 (μL). The monoclonal antibody mBA2 against PHYB, provided by Akira Nagatani, was used for detection (CITATION). Ten-day-old seedlings grown under continuous white light were transferred to liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented with or without 50 μM MG132 (Wako Japan), incubated under white light for 3 h, and then treated with far-red light for 12 h. Total proteins were extracted and subjected to SDS-PAGE followed by protein gel blotting using anti-VOZ2 antibody. Total proteins were extracted from seedlings grown under continuous white light for 10 d. Protein phosphatase treatment was performed with Lambda protein phosphatase (New England Biolabs) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The Matchmaker two-hybrid system 3 (Clontech) was used for the yeast two-hybrid assay. A cDNA library constructed from mRNA purified from the aerial portions of wild-type plants (Col) at bolting was provided by Miho Takemura, Ishikawa Prefectural University. As bait, full-length Arabidopsis PHYB was subcloned into a modified pGBKT7 vector (the original NdeI site in the multiple cloning site was disrupted and a new NdeI site was created at the start codon of the GAL4 DNA binding domain). Transformants (1.8 × 106) were selected on SD medium lacking His, Trp, and Leu (SD−His/−Trp/−Leu) and supplemented with 1 mM 3-amino 1,2,4-triazol. The fragments of full-length and N-terminal (1 to 1953 bp) PHYB were cloned into the NdeI site of the pGBKT7 vector. Each encoded protein was synthesized separately in vitro using 35S-Met in the TNT T7/T3 coupled reticulocyte lysate system kit (Promega) in accordance with the manufacturer’s protocol. VOZ1 coding fragments were cloned into the EcoRI-SalI sites of pGEX-6P-1 (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences) for expression in Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3). After 6 h of 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside induction at 16°C, the fusion proteins were extracted in buffer (50 mM Na-PO4, pH 7.0, 100 mM NaCl, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 1× Complete proteinase inhibitor [Roche]) and purified on glutathione-Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences). The binding reaction was conducted by mixing phyB with either GST or GST-VOZ1 immobilized on glutathione sepharose beads in PBS buffer with 1× Complete proteinase inhibitor (Roche) and incubating the mixture at room temperature for 2 h. Following nine washes with PBS buffer, the proteins were eluted with 2× sample buffer. Proteins retained on the beads were resolved by SDS-PAGE and visualized by autoradiography. Seedlings were grown on one-tenth MS agar medium without Suc for 5 d under 30 μmol m−2 s−1 red light or 35 μmol m−2 s−1 far-red light. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for genes mentioned in this article are as follows: At1g28520 (VOZ1), At2g42400 (VOZ2), At2g18790 (PHYB), At3g18780 (ACT2), At1g65480 (FT), At5g15840 (CO), At5g10140 (FLC), At5g62690 (TUB2), At2g26670 (HY1), At3g09150 (HY2), At5g38420 (RBCS-2B), and At1g22710 (SUC2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Interaction of VOZ Proteins with phyB. Supplemental Figure 2. T-DNA Insertional Mutants for VOZ Genes. Supplemental Figure 3. Phenotype of voz Mutants Grown under LD or SD Conditions. Supplemental Figure 4. Hypocotyl Length Phenotype of voz Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. Chlorophyll and Anthocyanin Accumulation Levels. Supplemental Figure 6. VOZ Gene Expression Patterns. Supplemental Figure 7. Complementation Test and GUS Staining of ProVOZ:GUS-VOZ/voz1 voz2 Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 8. Subcellular Localization of GFP-VOZ2 Fusion Protein under Different Light Conditions. Supplemental Figure 9. Relative Expression Levels of FT, CO, and FLC, and Flowering Time in VOZ2 Overexpression Lines. Supplemental Figure 10. Expression of GFP-VOZ2 mRNA in NLS and NES Lines. Supplemental Figure 11. Subcellular Localization of phyB-YFP in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 12. Expression of VOZ mRNA under Different Light Conditions. Supplemental Figure 13. VOZ2 Protein Accumulation Levels in phy Mutants under Different Light Conditions. Supplemental Figure 14. Schematic Illustration of a Model for VOZ Function. Supplemental Table 1. PCR Primers Used in the Expression Analysis.
