!~ABS~! The Golgi apparatus is the central organelle in the secretory pathway and plays key roles in glycosylation, protein sorting, and secretion in plants. Enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of complex polysaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycolipids are located in this organelle, but the majority of them remain uncharacterized. Here, we studied the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) membrane proteome with a focus on the Golgi apparatus using localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging. By applying multivariate data analysis to a combined data set of two new and two previously published localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging experiments, we identified the subcellular localization of 1,110 proteins with high confidence. These include 197 Golgi apparatus proteins, 79 of which have not been localized previously by a high-confidence method, as well as the localization of 304 endoplasmic reticulum and 208 plasma membrane proteins. Comparison of the hydrophobic domains of the localized proteins showed that the single-span transmembrane domains have unique properties in each organelle. Many of the novel Golgi-localized proteins belong to uncharacterized protein families. Structure-based homology analysis identified 12 putative Golgi glycosyltransferase (GT) families that have no functionally characterized members and, therefore, are not yet assigned to a Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes database GT family. The substantial numbers of these putative GTs lead us to estimate that the true number of plant Golgi GTs might be one-third above those currently annotated. Other newly identified proteins are likely to be involved in the transport and interconversion of nucleotide sugar substrates as well as polysaccharide and protein modification.
!~RES~! We have previously described the LOPIT approach for high-throughput determination of the steady-state localization of membrane proteins (CITATION, CITATION). In this quantitative proteomic technique, proteins can be confidently assigned to organelles according to the pattern of their distribution on density gradients (CITATION). The main aim of the work described here was to increase the number of identified Golgi-localized proteins and to find proteins putatively involved in the biosynthesis of the plant cell wall. Earlier additional replicate experiments identified relatively few novel proteins (CITATION). Moreover, the additional fractionation data from replicate experiments is not easily combined to strengthen localization predictions because there are often incomplete observations of proteins in each data set. Many of the proteins involved in sugar nucleotide metabolism and membrane trafficking are peripheral. In the LOPIT experiments by CITATION, these were removed by carbonate washing of the isolated membranes (Fig. 1, LOPIT experiments 1 and 2). To increase the likelihood of identifying novel proteins, we carried out two additional LOPIT experiments with samples enriched in peripheral and luminal proteins (Fig. 1, LOPIT experiments 3 and 4). Arabidopsis liquid-grown callus membrane fractions were prepared using conditions to preserve the association of the peripheral and luminal proteins. The distribution profiles of the proteins across the density gradient were estimated from their tryptic peptides labeled by four-plex iTRAQ followed by strong cation-exchange liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). To increase the number of fractions sampled, two four-plex labelings were performed per gradient. This allowed the quantitation of seven fractions, with one fraction common to the two labelings. The raw MS/MS spectral data sets from the two new LOPIT experiments and the two LOPIT experiments of CITATION were processed or reprocessed in parallel as described in “Materials and Methods” to produce protein abundance profiles. These analyses together identified and quantitated 2,205 proteins. Confident subcellular localization requires observations in two or more independent biological samples. A total of 1,385 proteins achieved this threshold of significance (Supplemental Table S1). The number of proteins identified and quantitated was not very different between LOPIT experiments 1 and 2 versus 3 and 4; however, as expected, almost all of the novel proteins found only in the experiments using non-carbonate-stripped membranes (LOPIT experiments 3 and 4) were without predicted TMDs (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] Our next aim was to develop an approach to classify the identified proteins into organelle categories using the incomplete protein fractionation information from all eight four-plex labelings. It has been demonstrated by CITATION that combining LOPIT data sets from different experiments improves the subcellular clustering resolution of proteins. However, a known issue with quantitation is that proteins are not observed in every MS experiment, due to the intensity-dependent manner in which MS data are collected. Thus, we expected to see only a minor proportion of proteins present and quantitated in all the experiments. Indeed, only 423 of the 2,205 proteins identified and quantitated in these experiments were consistently detected in all eight iTRAQ labelings of the four experiments; the rest of the proteins had one or more missing measurements. These missing values can hinder subsequent multivariate analysis and classification algorithms, if not accounted for (CITATION). Imputation approaches have already been implemented in two-dimensional gel studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and a few reports show the use of such algorithms in quantitative MS (CITATION; CITATION). The imputation of missing values prior to applying the classification algorithm exploits the covariance of all available protein data. Common approaches to missing data imputation include estimation of the joint probability distribution of all variables drawn from the relationship among replicates (using an expectation-maximization algorithm, for instance) and sampling missing values from this model (CITATION). In multivariate data sets, it can be difficult to specify a single joint distribution of all variables, so sequential sampling from a series of conditional predictive distributions is accepted as an approximation (CITATION). A missing labeling in the LOPIT data consists of four values; therefore, it can be treated as a four-dimensional multivariate target variable, and in this case multivariate regression is a suitable choice for estimation. A partial least-squares (PLS) regression model was chosen, as it allows the use of multivariate predictors and target variables even when the number of variables exceeds the number of cases (CITATION). In this respect, the multiple imputations procedure adopted in this study is closely related to a sequence-of-regression-models technique (CITATION). The choice of PLS regression as a predictive model was validated by a test on a subset of the data with complete observations in all eight four-plex labelings (consisting of profiles for 423 proteins). The number of latent variables of the model was chosen by a 7-fold cross-validation scheme (CITATION). The mean coefficient of determination for a target variable was 0.87 with se of 0.0023. The predictive power was measured by a score (cross-validated coefficient of determination [Q2]) where 0 is no better than chance and 1 is the theoretical maximum for a model that explains all the variation in the predicted data. The mean Q2 of all classes was 0.802 with se of 0.0212, showing the validity of the approach. We applied the data imputation approach to estimate the missing values on a data matrix consisting of partial distribution profiles along the density gradient of the 1,385 proteins with two or more observations. The imputation scheme was validated by simulating random missing labelings and calculating the error of the imputation, and it demonstrated an expected relative error of the magnitude of 10% to 16% of the real data value (Fig. 2). The generation of multiple imputed data sets was then achieved by a bootstrap approach (CITATION). One hundred imputed data sets were generated by predicting the missing values with a series of PLS regression models where the training set was sampled with replication from the complete and already imputed cases. This procedure is considered to give better estimation of uncertainty than a single imputation of missing data with the best-fit value or using a predictive model with a fixed set of parameters (CITATION). For ease of presentation, the 100 data sets were averaged into one matrix that yielded complete subcellular fractionation profiles on 1,385 proteins in four experiments (Supplemental Table S2). This represents a 2-fold increase both in the amount of fractionation data for each protein and in the number of proteins over the experiments reported by CITATION. [[FIGURE]] The averaged fractionation profiles were studied using principal component analysis in order to visualize the clustering of protein profiles by their organelle localization (Fig. 3). In the reanalyzed experiments 1 and 2, the plots show that marker proteins of the same organelle clustered together (Fig. 3A), as seen in the earlier analysis of the MS/MS data (CITATION). The two new data sets with the modified sample preparation also showed clear clustering of marker proteins (experiments 3 and 4; Fig. 3B). The combined data from the four experiments using the imputed fractionation values showed clear clustering similar to the separate data sets, again supporting the view that the data imputation was successful (Fig. 3C). [[FIGURE]] Proteins in the LOPIT data sets previously localized to the Golgi (35 proteins) and six proteins localized to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) were used as a part of the training set for the classification analysis and prediction of further Golgi/TGN-associated proteins. The Golgi apparatus and the TGN proteins were combined into one class because they have a similar fractionation profile. The rest of the training set was composed of the proteins previously assigned to the PM (39 proteins), ER (53 proteins), vacuole (11 proteins), mitochondrion (92 proteins), and plastid (40 proteins) as well as a nonorganelle (cytosolic/ribosomal) class (72 proteins) used to constrict the classifier. The training set is presented in Supplemental Table S2. To classify proteins into compartments, a multivariate naïve Bayesian classification model with a kernel density estimate was applied to each of the 100 imputed data sets. The choice of the naïve Bayesian model as a basis for multivariate classification was motivated by its particularly simple yet robust classification rule that uses a diagonal form of the covariance matrix. It has been reported to outperform a number of other popular classification models for multivariate biological data, including quadratic discriminant analysis and nearest neighbor classifier, and to yield better classification in situations where the sample values are correlated (CITATION). Using the average posterior probability based on the naïve Bayesian classification models, 274 of the 275 membrane organelle training set proteins were assigned to the correct location. This indicates that the assignments using this approach are likely to be of high confidence. The application of the classification procedure to the proteins with unknown localization resulted in a list of 197 proteins classified as Golgi/TGN localized (Supplemental Table S2). As expected, most of the proteins reported to be Golgi localized by CITATION lie within this set (85 out of 89). More than one-third (79 proteins) have not been previously identified to be Golgi localized by a high-confidence localization study (Supplemental Table S2; Supplemental Literature Cited S1). This represents an increase of 120% over the Golgi proteome reported by CITATION. The same classification approach was applied to other organelle proteins, resulting in the assignment of 304 proteins to the ER, 208 to the PM, 213 to the mitochondrion, 151 to the plastid, and 37 to the vacuole (Supplemental Table S2). TMDs of membrane proteins may harbor specific features that reflect the properties of the membrane in which they reside (CITATION). Although in plants it has been shown that the TMD length has an effect on the localization of an artificial reporter protein (CITATION), there have been relatively few plant proteins localized, precluding detailed investigation of differences in the TMD properties of proteins in different organelles. The large number of proteins reliably localized by LOPIT here provides an opportunity to study whether plant proteins show organelle-specific TMD properties. A subset of the proteins classified by the LOPIT approach was annotated as being putative single-span TMD proteins using the predictions from TMHMM (Table I; CITATION). The amino acid sequences of these proteins in and around their hydrophobic transmembrane span regions were analyzed similarly to CITATION. This analysis refines the cytosolic hydrophobic start point of the TMD span according to a consistent heuristic function. The identification of hydrophobic start point allows aligning and computing different properties along the TMD sequence, such as average amino acid compositions, and corresponding derived parameters such as residue size and hydrophobicity. Also, measurements were made of the estimated extramembrane protein sequence length on the cytosolic side of the TMD from the same start point. To provide increased numbers of proteins for statistical analysis, the data set was augmented by the inclusion of plant orthologs of the organelle-classified Arabidopsis proteins (Table I). The method for incorporating close ortholog sequences and removing familial sample bias was done as described previously for fungi and vertebrates (CITATION). The sequence database used for the ortholog search was the Streptophyta phylum subset of the UniProt database. The mean hydrophobicity of amino acid residues of all the putative TMD sequences, at positions relative to the cytosolic ends of their hydrophobic cores, was calculated using the Goldman, Engelman, and Steitz (GES) scale (CITATION) and plotted for the ER, Golgi, and PM organelle classifications (Fig. 4A). The hydrophobic regions of the TMDs from the Golgi and ER were of similar maximum hydrophobicity, with this maximum extending over the same number of residues. In contrast, for PM TMDs, the region of maximum hydrophobicity extended for a further five residues (Fig. 4A), similar to the situation observed in fungi and vertebrates (CITATION). To demonstrate that positional averages did not obscure any differences, we plotted the frequency of hydrophobic length, defined with an intermediate GES scale threshold of 1 kcal mol−1 (Fig. 4B). The distribution plot shows distinct profiles for the three compartments, with the mean TMD hydrophobic span lengths of 21.5 residues for the ER, 22.7 for the Golgi, and 25.4 for the PM (Fig. 4B). We tested the dependence of the hydrophobic length output on the GES scale threshold used to define TMD ends and concluded that the difference between PM, ER, and Golgi is relatively unaffected by the threshold chosen, suggesting that the difference is robust (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Since residue volumes are distributed asymmetrically in PM and Golgi TMDs of fungi and vertebrates (CITATION), the mean residue volume was calculated along the plant TMD sequences (Fig. 4C). The TMD regions of different organelles showed no significant differences regarding the amino acid volume close to the cytosolic edge (positions 1–10). However, in the luminal/exoplasmic leaflet region, starting from position 12 there are clear differences: the PM TMDs have a significant drop in the mean residue volume, whereas Golgi and ER remain similarly high throughout the TMD (Fig. 4C). To investigate this in more detail, we analyzed the frequency of each amino acid at each position through the TMD. The amino acid compositions show differences between the TMDs from different organelles (Supplemental Fig. S2). Some of these differences are clearly associated with the differences in mean residue volume. In particular, the larger hydrophobic residues (Leu, Phe, and Tyr) are relatively depleted in the outer leaflet portion of the PM TMDs compared with Golgi and ER, while the smaller hydrophobic residues (Ala, Ile, and Val) show the opposite trend (Fig. 4, E and F). In addition to these differences in residue size, there appear to be other organelle-specific trends. For example, the PM TMDs have enriched abundance of the basic residues on the cytosolic side and increased occurrence of Cys in the interfacial region of the inner leaflet (perhaps reflecting increased palmitoylation). The Golgi TMDs are characterized by lower occurrence of Lys in the outer leaflet region, whereas the ER TMDs have increased occurrence of Met in the interfacial region of the outer leaflet (Supplemental Fig. S2). The length of the cytosolic tail of the single-span TMD proteins also displayed specific variations for the three organelles. Over 80% of the Golgi apparatus proteins have a cytosolic tail of fewer than 45 amino acid residues. Almost as frequently, 70% of ER proteins have similarly short cytosolic tails; this observation holds for fewer than 22% of PM proteins (Fig. 4D). This is to be expected, since the transmembrane PM proteins (unlike the ER and Golgi proteins) are likely to perform more functions on the cytosolic side. Many of the proteins (22%) identified as Golgi localized were annotated in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) 10 database as proteins of unknown function. Since a large number of the proteins in the Golgi apparatus are likely to be involved in glycosylation (CITATION), we investigated whether any of these proteins show predicted structural homology to proteins of known function and structure. Currently, 3-D structural information is available for 39 of the 91 classified CAZy GT families. We analyzed the sequences of all 197 Golgi proteins using HHpred, an alignment tool based on the pairwise comparison of hidden Markov model profiles (CITATION). HHpred builds a hidden Markov model profile from a query amino acid sequence and compares it with a database of hidden Markov models representing annotated protein families (e.g. Pfam, Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool [SMART], and Conserved Domains Database [CDD]) or domains with known structure (Protein Data Bank [PDB] and Structural Classification of Proteins [SCOP]) and provides greater sensitivity and selectivity in finding remote homologs than other sequence profile-based methods such as PSI-BLAST (CITATION). The analysis of all the Golgi-localized proteins identified 65 of 197 as having a probable fold related to known GTs; of these, 41 were classified in CAZy and 24 proteins were identified as putative GTs not classified in CAZy families (Table II). In addition, the DUF579 family as well as three other unrelated proteins showed significant similarity to a conserved S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding methyltransferase (MT) fold (Supplemental Fig. S3). To obtain an overview of the Golgi proteome, all 197 proteins were assigned to functional groups, and these are shown in Figure 5 and Supplemental Table S2. For a full list of Arabidopsis GT-like proteins, see Supplemental Table S3. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used the established Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) liquid-grown callus for the proteomic analysis. The conditions of growth were as described by CITATION. Organelle separation was achieved from homogenized Arabidopsis cell culture using density centrifugation as described before (CITATION). For the peripheral LOPIT experiment, the membrane fractions obtained from the density centrifugation were not treated with sodium carbonate. Proteolysis was achieved with trypsin, and the peptides were labeled with four-plex iTRAQ, separated by strong cation-exchange chromatography, and analyzed on an AB Sciex QSTAR Quadrupole Time-of-Flight liquid chromatography-MS system as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The raw MS/MS data files obtained from the QSTAR were processed using the wiff2DTA software to generate centroided and uncentroided peak lists (CITATION) containing mass-to-charge ratio and intensity information for each product ion spectrum. The centroided peak lists were analyzed by MASCOT 2.2 (Matrix Science) and queried against the TAIR 8 nonredundant protein database (27,234 sequences) using the following modifications: fixed, MMTS (Cys); variable, iTRAQ four-plex (Lys), iTRAQ four-plex (N-terminal), iTRAQ four-plex (Tyr), oxidation (Met). The ion score significance threshold was set to 0.05, MS tolerance was set to 1 D, and the MS/MS tolerance was set to 0.8 D. Each centroided peak list was also searched separately against a decoy reversed version of the database in order to determine the MASCOT peptide score resulting in a false identification rate of less than 1% in each LOPIT experiment. Hence, the minimum peptide MASCOT scores for proteins identified with two or more peptides were 32 for LOPIT experiment 1, 35 for LOPIT experiment 2, 33 for LOPIT experiment 3, and 33 for LOPIT experiment 4. The thresholds for identification of proteins with single peptides were 47, 51, 52, and 50 for experiments 1 to 4, respectively. Proteins identified by two or more distinct peptides in at least one experiment were retained. The XML files created from the integrated data set were exported to the PRIDE database (CITATION). The uncentroided peak lists were processed with i-Tracker software in order to calculate the normalized iTRAQ reporter ion areas (CITATION). The Genome Annotating Proteome Pipeline system (CITATION) was used to link identification information with quantitation data in a MySQL database. Peptides were assigned to proteins only if at least three of their reporter ion peaks were above a threshold of 15 counts and if they had a MASCOT score of at least 20 (CITATION). In addition, peptides matching multiple proteins were not used for protein quantitation. The quantitative data obtained from the four reporter ions of the iTRAQ label was corrected for the isotope impurities and normalized such that the four reporter ions sum to one (Fig. 1). Quantitation data from multiple peptides from the same protein were averaged to provide a fractionation profile for the identified proteins. Proteins identified and quantitated in two or more experiments were retained. The normalized four-plex data sets were concatenated in one matrix presented in Supplemental Table S1. Protein profiles that were present in only one experiment were discarded (for data preprocessing, see Fig. 1). The protein profiles that had missing four-plex data (from one to six missing four-plex data points out of eight) were imputed by a PLS regression model (CITATION). The imputation was performed sequentially. First, the entire data set was divided into subgroups according to the number and positions of missing four-plex data. For each subgroup, the missing labeling was estimated by a PLS regression model built using proteins where all labelings were present. The estimated labeling was then considered “known” and used as a predictor for building subsequent regression models. The process was performed first for the protein profiles having one four-plex labeling missing and then repeated for those with two missing labelings. This process was iterated until all the missing values were imputed. The validation of this method was performed using a cross-validation approach. One nonmissing four-plex was randomly removed from each protein with up to five missing labelings, and the PLS regression method was applied to this new data set in order to predict known and unknown missing values. The predicted four-plexes were then compared with the known values, and the prediction relative error was calculated. This process was repeated 1,000 times, and the expected error (summarized by subgroups of proteins with the same number of missing values) was estimated by a mean error and its 95% confidence interval. The list of protein identifiers with known subcellular localization was manually curated from published research papers, with the assistance of the TAIR (www.arabidopsis.org; CITATION) and SUBA (http://suba.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au; CITATION) databases. The training set was composed of proteins localized by methods that were LOPIT orthogonal and considered of high confidence (fluorescence microscopy imaging, immunolocalization, or, in cases of proteins localized to the plastid or mitochondrion, sequence homology and protein import assays). This way, we gathered a list of 348 protein identifiers distributed in seven classes (41 proteins belonging to the Golgi/TGN class, 53 to the ER, 39 to the PM, 11 to the vacuole, 92 to the mitochondrion, 40 to the plastid, plus 72 to a decoy class consisting of ribosomal and cytosolic proteins; Supplemental Table S2). Their corresponding quantity profiles were used as a training set for the classification model. The multivariate classification rule with diagonal covariance matrices (known as naïve Bayesian classifier) was used to build a multivariate classification model. The prior probability for a particular protein to be assigned to one of six classes was set uniformly. The class posterior distributions were modeled in a nonparametric way using a Gaussian smoothing kernel. In order to account for the uncertainty of classification originating from the missing value imputation step, a multiple imputation approach was undertaken as described previously (CITATION). Exactly 100 variants of an imputed data set were generated using the bootstrapped sequential imputation procedure described above in order to explore the variation in the prediction. Classification models were built for each of the 100 generated data sets. The average posterior probability was calculated to reflect the variability of the class probability distributions and the imputed data. The performance of the classifier was evaluated using a leave-one-out cross-validation scheme where the localization of one of the proteins from the training set was predicted using the remaining training set proteins. The proteins in the training set were correctly assigned in 98% of these models. Proteins were finally assigned using organelle-specific thresholds based on the average posterior probability of assignments of the training set proteins, and the predicted classes are presented in Supplemental Table S2. The data processing was done using the Matlab Statistical Toolbox (Mathworks). The single-span TMD proteins from the LOPIT-classified set were identified using a combination of sequence filtering employing SignalP version 4.0 (CITATION), TMHMM (CITATION), and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor prediction (CITATION). In the first pass, only protein sequences were accepted, according to the TMHMM prediction of the transmembrane spans, if the protein appears to have only one transmembrane span or if it appears to have two but the first span is at the N terminus (and so could be a signal peptide). If a transmembrane span was at the N terminus and predicted to be a signal sequence, according to SignalP, then the protein was excluded if this was the only transmembrane span but accepted if this was the first of two TMHMM predictions. Any sequence that passed these tests was subject to the GPI-anchoring Prediction Tool method of GPI anchor prediction used by CITATION, which excluded some putative GPI sequences on the basis of a C-terminal hydrophobic signal peptide. In order to augment the organelle-classified Arabidopsis sequences, close orthologs in related organisms were identified in the Streptophyta clade within the UniProt database. The expanded lists of protein sequences were reduced for redundancy and analyzed for their cytosolic extra membrane length and TMD sequence properties: amino acid composition, hydrophobicity, and residue volume, as described by CITATION. The remote homology detection server HHpred (www.toolkit.tuebingen.mpg.de/hhpred) was used to search for homologs to the uncharacterized protein families (CITATION). All searches were conducted with the default settings: three HHblits iterations were performed in local alignment mode to build up a multiple sequence alignment from the input sequence. The algorithm was used to search the Protein Data Bank for 3-D structures, Pfam and CDD for primary structures, and the Arabidopsis protein database for determining the closest CAZy GT family to the query. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Number of proteins with and without predicted TMDs identified and quantitated in the four LOPIT experiments. Supplemental Figure S2. Positional analysis of amino acid composition of TMDs from different organelles. Supplemental Figure S3. HHpred alignment output of DUF579 query sequence against the PDB database. Supplemental Figure S4. HHpred alignment output of KOBITO1 query sequence against the PDB database. Supplemental Table S1. Summary of the 1385 proteins with normalized reporter ion intensities. Supplemental Table S2. Functional annotations, classification results, and fractionation profiles of the 1385 proteins studied. Supplemental Table S3. List of the 12 novel putative GT families with their members. Supplemental Literature Cited S1.
