!~ABS~! In plants, where cells cannot migrate, asymmetric cell divisions (ACDs) must be confined to the appropriate spatial context. We investigate tissue-generating asymmetric divisions in a stem cell daughter within the Arabidopsis root. Spatial restriction of these divisions requires physical binding of the stem cell regulator SCARECROW (SCR) by the RETINOBLASTOMA-RELATED (RBR) protein. In the stem cell niche, SCR activity is counteracted by phosphorylation of RBR through a cyclinD6;1-CDK complex. This cyclin is itself under transcriptional control of SCR and its partner SHORT ROOT (SHR), creating a robust bistable circuit with either high or low SHR-SCR complex activity. Auxin biases this circuit by promoting CYCD6;1 transcription. Mathematical modeling shows that ACDs are only switched on after integration of radial and longitudinal information, determined by SHR and auxin distribution, respectively. Coupling of cell-cycle progression to protein degradation resets the circuit, resulting in a “flip flop” that constrains asymmetric cell division to the stem cell region.
!~RES~! We first investigated the molecular basis for previously observed genetic interactions between SCR and RBR. Yeast two hybrid assays indicated that RBR and SCR directly interact in vitro, although less strongly than the SCR-SHR and RBR-E2FA combinations used as positive controls (CITATIONB). Direct interaction between RBR and SCR was also observed in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts by using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays (CITATIONC). By coimmunoprecipitation assays from root extracts, we also observed that SCR and RBR form a complex in planta (CITATIOND). An LxCxE motif N-terminal to the GRAS domain in the SCR protein is highly conserved in SCR orthologs from seed plants to the moss Physcomitrella patens (CITATIONE). To determine the relevance of the LxCxE motif for the SCR-RBR interaction, we generated a variant of the SCR complementary DNA (cDNA) in which the LxCxE motif was converted into AxCxA (SCRAxCxA) and tested its capacity to bind RBR. The SCRAxCxA variant interacted with SHR with the same efficiency as wild-type (WT) SCR, but the interaction with RBR was disrupted (CITATIONB). Split-luciferase experiments (CITATION; CITATION) produced SCR-SHR and RBR-E2Fa interactions equally strong as an H2A-H2B interaction (CITATIONF). RBR-SCR interaction was weaker, and RBR-SCRAxCxA was reduced to 11% of the RBR-SCR interaction (CITATIONF). We concluded that SCR and RBR interact directly and that this interaction depends on the LxCxE motif in SCR. To test the relevance of the SCR-RBR interaction in planta, we generated protein fusions to yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) by using either the SCR wild-type cDNA or the SCRAxCxA cDNA under the transcriptional control of the SCR promoter. Both constructs, pSCR::SCR:YFP and pSCR::SCR AxCxA :YFP, were transformed independently into the scr4-1 mutant background. Seedlings of multiple stable transformants, homozygous for the pSCR::SCR:YFP and pSCR::SCR AxCxA :YFP transgenes, complemented the macroscopic defects in the scr4-1 mutant and restored cotyledon and primary root size, indicating that SCR and SCRAxCxA are both functional (data not shown). scr4-1;pSCR::SCR:YFP roots fully complemented the scr4-1 phenotype and displayed the characteristic SCR expression pattern in the quiescent center (QC), ground tissue initials and mature endodermal layer (CITATIONG; compare with CITATION A and S1B available online). Roots of scr4-1;pSCR::SCR AxCxA :YFP (hereafter referred to as scr4-1;SCR AxCxA ) seedlings similarly complemented the scr4-1 phenotype. However, meristematic endodermis cells expressing the SCR AxCxA fusion performed extra periclinal divisions capable of generating a complete extra ground tissue layer (CITATIONG–1J, asterisks) from late embryo stage onward (CITATIONE and S1F, asterisk). We investigated the identity of the extra layer observed in scr4-1;SCR AxCxA roots by using markers to distinguish cortex from endodermis tissue. Three markers demonstrated that disruption of the interaction between SCR and RBR led to an extra ACD that originates in the inner ground tissue cell and again separates cortex and endodermis identity (CITATIONC, S1D, S1G, and S1H). The extra ACD in the scr4-1;SCR AxCxA line indicates that RBR interaction with WT SCR counteracts recurrent ACD-promoting activity. In the WT, SCR promotes ACD in the CEI and CEID cells together with its heterodimeric interaction partner SHR. When we transformed the scr4-1;shr double mutant with pSCR::SCR:YFP and pSCR::SCR AxCxA :YFP constructs, both lines displayed the shr phenotype lacking ACDs (“M” in CITATIONI and S1J). These results indicate that the extra ACD observed in the scr4-1;SCR AxCxA roots, like the ACD in WT, is SHR dependent. Well-characterized direct targets of SCR and SHR are the MAGPIE (MGP) and NUTCRAKER (NUC) genes (CITATION). A genetic link between RBR and SCR-SHR transcriptional activity was suggested by CITATION, who showed that the expression domain of NUC (At5g44160) expands as a consequence of RBR silencing. After RBR transactivation induced by dexamethasone (Dex, as previously described in CITATION), pMGP::MGP:GFP expression gradually decreased in roots harboring the RBR-transactivation construct (CITATION A–2C). This reduction in expression was evident well before the full differentiation of the meristem invoked by prolonged RBR overexpression. SHR and SCR directly activate the D-type cyclin CYCD6;1, whose expression is enriched in the CEI/CEID cells and whose forced expression in the ground tissue produced extra divisions, similar to those in scr4-1;SCR AxCxA roots (CITATION). CYCD6;1 is a potential regulator of RBR phosphorylation. If RBR phosphorylation by CYCD6;1 inhibited RBR action on SCR, this would lead to a feedforward loop (model 1, CITATION G). We predicted that the scr4-1;SCR AxCxA mutation, which prevents RBR inhibition of SCR activity, leads to CYCD6;1 expression outside of the CEI and CEID. Indeed, whereas the pCYCD6;1::GFP expression domain in the scr4-1;SCR background, as in the WT context, was predominantly confined to the ground tissue initials (CITATIOND), it expanded in the endodermal layer of scr4-1;SCR AxCxA seedlings in perfect correlation with the extra ACDs (CITATIONE and 2F). SHR and SCR bind to the NUC promoter (CITATION). We hypothesized that binding of SCR to RBR takes place in the context of target gene promoters. To test this, we performed replicated chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments followed by quantitative PCR (ChIP-qPCR) on the NUC promoter. We found that RBR consistently associated with specific NUC promoter fragments located at −4.9 Kb (CITATIONG, red asterisk; Student’s t test, p < 0.05) and at −2.2 Kb upstream from the ATG (CITATIONA; p = 0.066) but that it was only weakly enriched in line with its indirect binding to DNA. We conclude that RBR negatively regulates SHR-SCR transcriptional targets such as NUC and MGP, which in turn promote ACD (CITATION). In addition, RBR constrains the expression of another SHR-SCR target, CYCD6;1, which may itself regulate RBR activity. BiFC assays revealed that CYCD6;1 interacted with RBR in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATIONA) in a manner similar to the positive control RBR-E2FC (CITATIONB). Previous large-scale BiFC interaction mapping of Arabidopsis cell-cycle regulators indicated association between CYCD6;1 and A-, B-, and D-type CDK subunits (CITATION). We transiently coexpressed epitope-tagged CYCD6;1 and CDKs in Arabidopsis protoplasts and observed specific interaction between CDKB1 and CYCD6;1 proteins (CITATIONC). Immunoprecipitation-protein kinase assay against histone H1 and a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion to the C-terminal polypeptide encompassing the last 235 amino acids (GST-RBR-Ct) of Arabidopsis RBR revealed that a CDKA;1-CYCD3;1 complex phosphorylated both histone H1 and GST-RBR-Ct but detected no significant increase in histone H1 or GST-RBR-Ct phosphorylation levels upon CYCD6;1 binding to CDKB1 (CITATIOND). On the other hand, immunoprecipitation-kinase assays using a GST fusion to the 608-amino-acid-long complete pocket domain (see CITATION for a detailed description of RBR fragments used) revealed that CYCD6;1 binding increased basal activity of CDKB1 (CITATIONE). Our data indicate that an active CDKB1-CYCD6;1 kinase complex targets one or more phosphorylation sites within the RBR pocket domain. The CDKB1 kinases to which CYCD6;1 specifically binds are encoded by two genes, CDKB1;1 and CDKB1;2. Although CDKB1;1 is expressed in a range of tissues (CITATION), a transcriptional fusion to the β-glucuronidase gene (pCDKB1;1:GUS) and a translational fusion to GFP (pCDKB1;1::CDKB1;1:GFP) revealed high levels of CDKB1;1 expression and protein accumulation in CEI cells as they undergo ACD (CITATION C and S2D). To detect the protein fusion, reduction of proteasome activity with MG132 treatment was necessary, suggesting additional posttranslational regulation. Double-mutant cdkb1;1 cdkb1;2 seedlings revealed a higher frequency of undivided CEIDs as compared to WT (CITATIONF and CITATIONB), indicating that ACDs are delayed in cdkb1 double mutants. Consistent with the specific CDKB1-CYCD6;1 interaction, this phenotype is similar to that reported for the cycd6;1 mutant (CITATION). Collectively, our results suggest that spatiotemporal fine tuning of RBR phosphorylation in the ground tissue occurs through tight regulation of the CYCD6;1-CDKB1;1 protein pair. We addressed whether the nested feedback circuit among SHR, SCR, RBR, and CYCD6;1 could result in the precise spatial confinement of ACDs. We generated coupled ordinary differential equations (ODEs) to describe the wiring of the network (CITATIONG; CITATION for details) and focused on analyzing equilibrium levels of nuclear SHR and free SCR (unbound to RBR), as ACDs occur when both levels are high and SCR-RBR levels are low. Analysis and numerical simulations of the model showed that the network ensures highly robust bistability in which nuclear SHR and free SCR levels can flip between a low and a high state. CITATIONH depicts the equilibria in terms of free SCR levels. Bistability can be found over a very wide range of SHR influx levels. For low values of SHR influx, there is only one stable state, illustrating that sufficient SHR influx is needed to gain the potential of the ACD cell state, whereas very high SHR influx causes the low equilibrium to disappear, leading to the flip to the ACD cell state. Conversely, once the ACD cell state is triggered, only very low SHR levels can bring the cell back into the normal state. This hysteresis effect is due to the fact that SCR sequestering by RBR prevents the positive feedback loops from taking effect, which is necessary to increase SCR concentrations. This dynamic behavior is observed over a broad parameter range, indicating intrinsic robustness within the network wiring. To address to which extent the bistability is due to the SCR feedback on its own transcription or to the CYCD6-mediated feedback loop that promotes free SCR, we mathematically analyzed the cases in which one or both of the feedback loops are removed (CITATIONI–3L and CITATIONE–S2H). The qualitative behavior of bistability was preserved when any one of the two feedbacks was removed (CITATIONJ, 3K, CITATIONF, and S2G). However, if both are turned off, the system failed to present bistability for any possible parameter setting (CITATIONL and CITATIONH). We therefore conclude that it is the combined (and redundant) action of two feedback loops that determines the huge potential for bistability underlying the behavior of ACD specification. To explore how these interactions are influenced by the cellular environment in the root, we inserted the network in every cell of an in silico root (CITATIONM). Because SHR production is limited to the vasculature while degraded everywhere, a radial gradient in SHR levels was formed. Interestingly, within the spatial simulations, the SHR influx-dependent bistability leads to two possible scenarios. One possibility is that the highest SHR levels, found close to the vasculature, are not sufficient to trigger the ACD state (CITATIONN, 3P, and 3R). In that case, SHR keeps its graded radial distribution (CITATIONN), which is never observed in vivo. Alternatively, the positive feedback loops are sufficiently strong that all cells close to the vasculature are flipped to the ACD cell state (CITATIONO, 3Q, and 3S). In the latter case, due to the efficient sequestering of SHR in the endodermis, CEI/CEID, and QC, cells farther from the stele do not receive enough SHR to switch to the high equilibrium. This result was consistent for different parameter settings and spatial implementations (data not shown). The modeling result that the complete endodermal cell file triggers the ACD state is not observed in vivo. Hence, the network explains the radial position of ACDs but does not contain a mechanism to bias this to the CEI/CEID cells. The plant growth factor auxin is a key factor in positioning the niche, and its polar transport is required for longitudinal positioning of CEI/CEID markers (CITATION). Therefore, auxin might mediate restriction of CYCD6;1 expression and the associated ACD in the longitudinal axis. When we increased auxin concentration with IAA (the major active auxin) and NPA (a polar auxin transport inhibitor), expression of pCYCD6;1::GFP expanded, coinciding with extra periclinal divisions that often led to an extra ground tissue layer in primary roots (CITATION A). After the same treatment, Col0;pSHR::SHR:GFP roots revealed the SHR protein fusion in the inner cell layer, indicating that auxin induced ACDs (CITATIONB). In scr4-1;SCR AxCxA ;pCYCD6;1::GFP roots, where RBR cannot repress SCR activity, IAA/NPA treatment induced successive ectopic ACDs in the transit amplifying zone (CITATIONC), correlating with strong shootward-extended expression of pCYCD6;1::GFP (CITATIOND). IAA/NPA treatment induced pCYCD6;1::GFP expression in the shr;pSHR::SHR:GR mutant background only after DEX-induced nuclear localization of SHR (CITATIONE and 4E′). When shr;pSHR::SHR:GR seedlings were grown continuously in both DEX and IAA/NPA, pCYCD6;1::GFP expression expanded, and extra ACDs occurred (CITATIONF). We concluded that auxin-mediated induction of the CYCD6;1 promoter requires SHR and SCR activity. To increase auxin levels only in the endodermis by bacterial biosynthetic enzyme IAAH, we introgressed the pSCR::IAAH transgene in the Col0;pCYCD6;1::GFP background. Roots of seedlings grown in IAM-containing medium, but not control roots (CITATIONG), expanded pCYCD6;1::GFP expression, which is correlated with extra ACDs (CITATIONH). Because it remained possible that auxin synthesized in the endodermis fluxed around to activate an ACD stimulating factor elsewhere, we drove IAAH from the epidermal/lateral root cap WEREWOLF promoter (pWER::IAAH). When grown on IAM-containing medium, extra ACDs occurred in the endodermis, and pDR5::GFP and pPIN1::PIN1:GFP signals increased in the ground tissue and the vascular tissue, indicating that auxin synthesized in the outer layers flows to the inner tissues and triggers extra ACDs (CITATIONI, 4J, and 4J′). However, on IAM- and NPA-containing medium, reflux of auxin from the WER domain was blocked, as revealed by higher levels of pDR5::GFP in the LRC and low expression of both markers in the vascular and ground tissues; under these conditions, no extra ACDs were observed (CITATIONK and 4K′). Laser ablation experiments, which alter auxin flow in predictable manners (CITATION; CITATION), independently supported that a local increase of auxin levels in the endodermis is critical to trigger new ACDs but needs the presence of SHR and SCR (CITATIONA–S4H). To explore the spatial-dynamical consequences of auxin feedback on CYCD6 transcription, we added this interaction to our ODE network, now representing model 2 (CITATIONL, green arrow). For an isolated cell, in a nonspatial setting, we found a switch-like response in free SCR levels linked to the auxin concentration (CITATIONM). Next, we generated a spatial model by concomitantly describing auxin dynamics based on experimentally observed PIN distributions (CITATION; CITATION) and with information on the detailed organization of the stem cell niche and root cap (CITATION , details in CITATION). The modeled auxin dynamics in this context predicted that, through the auxin-attenuated network within the root context, CYCD6;1, nuclear SHR, and SCR become localized to the QC and CEI (CITATIONN–4R). Although, compared to model 1, model 2 clearly presents an improvement in capturing the regulation of the ACDs, it fails to explain the confinement of SHR to the endodermis. This is because, in model 2, only the cells that enter the ACD state can block the SHR throughput from the vasculature to the external cell files. Thus, SHR moves from endodermal cells that are not in the ACD state into the next cell layer (CITATIONQ), as in scr mutants (CITATION; CITATION). The lack of SHR confinement contradicted experimental data, which suggested that RBR binding to SCR does not prevent SCR from interacting with SHR but instead inhibits activation of downstream targets by binding the SHR-SCR complex. To test whether a ternary complex can indeed be formed, we coexpressed SHR-GFP fusion protein with epitope-tagged SCR and RBR in Arabidopsis protoplasts and purified complexes on a GFP affinity matrix. Immunoblot analysis of affinity-purified complexes confirmed the previously observed SCR-SHR heterodimer and indicated that SCR-SHR interaction is not compromised by the RBR protein (CITATION B). Western analysis also revealed copurification of the RBR protein, suggesting that the three proteins can form a complex (CITATIONB). We therefore extended model 2 to explicitly take into account not only the SCR-RBR complex but also the SHR-SCR and the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex (CITATIONA). The third model presents, in a parsimonious way, our current understanding of the regulatory circuit and the distribution of key factors underlying ACDs (CITATIONC–5G and CITATION I–S4M). Model 3 revealed that, whereas RBR complexes are absent in the ACD region, as basically all RBR is in its phosphorylated form, high levels of the ternary complex in the endodermis prevent both ACDs and SHR transport into the cortex (CITATIONG and CITATIONM). Implementing the SCRAxCxA modification, which decreases the binding of RBR to SCR, resulted in high levels of the SHR-SCR complex not only the CEI but also in the first endodermal cell and CEID, which is in agreement with the observed extended CEI activity (CITATIONH–5J). After simulating auxin immersion (CITATION), high levels of the SHR-SCR complex were even further propagated spatially (CITATIONK), together with a further reduction of the inhibitory complex (CITATIONL). This confirms the quantitative impact of auxin levels on the process of ACD specification through the network and mirrors the experimental outcomes of auxin treatment promoting extra ACDs. However, although model 3 explains how auxin and SHR influx trigger the “on” state of the bistable SHR-SCR-RBR circuit, as well as the radial confinement of SHR, it does not reveal how the system is reset. Because the network functions through a double feedback loop (one of which is auxin dependent), once the system is flipped to the “on” state to undergo ACDs, even a dramatic decrease in auxin levels will not be able to turn it back “off” (CITATIONN and S4O). The solution to this apparent failure was suggested by the ACD itself. The triggering of an ACD is a cell-cycle event, and regulatory proteins are often degraded during specific cell-cycle phases. Therefore, we analyzed the levels of functional RBR, SHR, and SCR protein fusions expressed from their own promoters during the cell cycle. Prior to mitosis, endodermis-expressed RBR:YFP, SHR:YFP, and SCR:YFP protein fusions were primarily localized to the nucleus. However, elongated cells prior to cell plate formation displayed a weaker and cytoplasmic signal (CITATION A–S5C′), and postdivision nuclear levels were also decreased. To record multiple cells in specific cell-cycle phase, we standardized conditions for in planta hydroxyurea (HU)-induced cell-cycle synchronization (CITATIOND–S5K′; CITATION). pSHR::SHR:YFP decreased in abundance in individual endodermal cells followed between 19 and 22 hr HU, when the 35S::H2B:RFP protein fusion resolved into a mitotic figure, and such decrease was also observed for pSCR::SCR:YFP pRBR::RBR:CFP fusions (CITATIONL–S5S). To investigate further whether specific protein degradation machinery mediated the decrease in SHR, SCR, and RBR concentration, we utilized the 26S proteasome inhibitor MG132. In the presence of MG132, the fluorescence of a CYCB1;1:GFP control line increased (CITATIONA and 6B; n ≥ 7). Roots expressing RBR and SCR protein fusions also revealed increased signal after MG132 treatment (CITATIONC–6F). No increase of pSHR::SHR:YFP signal was evident after MG132 treatment (CITATIONH) when compared to the control (CITATIONG). These data suggest that SCR and RBR are subject to 26S-proteasome-mediated degradation, whereas the decrease in SHR concentration during cell division appears to be mediated by other factors. Some plant D Cyclins are targets for degradation by the 26S proteasome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, when CYCD6;1:YFP was expressed in cortex and endodermal layers along the root meristem, fluorescence was detected in the nucleus of some endodermis cells and in the cytoplasm of others. In contrast, after MG132 application, strong nuclear-localized YFP signal appeared throughout both cortex and endodermis layers (CITATIONI and 6J). We concluded that proteasome activity destabilizes the CYCD6;1:YFP protein. We validated the dynamics of protein degradation during divisions in vivo by recording the behavior of SCR and SHR proteins in endodermis cells by using the double marked lines p35S::H2B:RFP;pSCR::SCR:YFP and p35S::H2B:RFP;pSHR::SHR:GFP and observed rapid protein degradation (CITATIONK and CITATION and CITATION). We analyzed whether the observed cell-cycle-mediated degradation was sufficient to reset the ACD switch in model 3. CITATIONL and CITATIONX show bifurcation diagrams for the equilibrium level of SHR-SCR as a function of the increased level of protein degradation. Without elevated protein degradation, there were three equilibria, two of which were stable. This implies that the first cell within the endodermal cell file could indeed be either in the “on” state or in the “off” state, but, having inherited its state from the CEID, it would be expected to be in the “on” state. If, however, cell division was accompanied by increased protein degradation, it would be sufficient to flop cells from the “on” state back down to a lower state, switching the system off (see CITATIONL and 6M). The observed rapid protein degradation corresponded to the quantitative predictions of our model. The importance of the right balance between the level of accelerated protein degradation and the time interval during which accelerated degradation takes place is further illustrated in CITATIONM, in which shorter time windows need higher degradation rates for turning the ACD state “off” without relapse to the “on” state. This behavior of our model predicted that protease inhibitor treatment could itself trigger ACDs. MG132 application indeed consistently triggered ectopic periclinal cell divisions associated with CycD6 expression that were asymmetric based on the persistence of SCR expression only in inner cells (CITATIONT–S5V).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown as described in CITATION (see CITATION). IAA/NPA treatments were done for 24 to 48 hr in liquid media similarly to CITATION. For CEI frequency measurements, plants were grown and roots were prepared for confocal microscopy as described (CITATION). To test 26S-proteasome-dependent protein degradation, 4 days postgermination (dpg) seedlings were transferred to liquid MS media supplemented with 50 μM MG132 (Sigma-Aldrich). Similar conditions were used to enable visualization of CDKB1;1::GFP protein fusion. For confocal microscopy, roots were mounted in 10 μM propidium iodide. Root tissue sections were performed as in CITATION and were visualized by using Nomarski optics. Casparian strip staining with berberine hemisulphate (Sigma) is described in CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) interactions were studied by using the ProQuest Two-Hybrid System (Invitrogen Life Technologies). Coding sequences of RBR, SCR AxCxA , and E2FA were amplified and fused to both pDEST32 BD and pDEST22 AD vectors. Compatible Y2H constructs for SCR and SHR were previously generated, and Y2H analyses were performed as described (CITATION). To quantify interaction strengths, three experimental and technical replicates of β-galactosidase assays, with CPRG as substrate, were performed. For BiFC analysis, we subcloned RBR and E2Fa cDNAs in vectors pARC233, pARC234, pARC235, and pARC236 by Gateway LR reactions to generate C- and N-terminal fusions to the two YFP fragments. SHR and SCR were generated as previously described (CITATION). YFP fluorescence was recorded by using a Leica SP2 CLSM. Col-0 mesophyll protoplasts were transfected according to CITATION. Results are from three biological replicates with three technical replicates each. For split Renilla luciferase analysis, cDNAs were cloned by Gateway LR recombination into pDuExB and pDuExP vectors (CITATION). A minimum of two biological replicates of 50,000 mesophyll protoplasts were transfected in triplicate with 2 μg of each DNA and 1 μg of transfection control. Proteins were extracted and analyzed for firefly and renilla luciferase activity with the Dual Luciferase Reporter Assay System (Promega) in a Glomax 96 microplate luminometer (Promega). Relative luciferase activity was calculated as described (CITATION). Results were expressed as percentage of average H2A-H2B interaction. ChIP was carried out on root material of 5-day-old Col-0 seedlings. IP was performed in the absence (negative control) and presence of antibody specific for AtRBR1 protein as described in CITATION. NUC promoter qPCR primers were designed to amplify fragments between 100 and 200 bp spanning the 6 kb promoter region of the gene and were designed to be in ascending order upstream away from the NUC ATG (see CITATION). Enrichment was calculated by comparison of samples after IP with and without antibody. We used as negative control a random intergenic region (IR) (between At3g03660–70) and as positive control, the promoter region of PCNA1 (At1g07370) (CITATION). Each primer pair was tested with a minimum of two biological replicates, with three technical replicates each. Student’s t tests were performed to analyze statistical significance. For protein kinase assays, CDK-cyclin complexes were immunoprecipitated with anti-c-Myc antibody from lysate of transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts. Immunocomplexes were washed as described in CITATION and were washed once with kinase buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.8), 15 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM DTT. Phosphorylation assays were performed in 20 μl kinase buffer supplemented with 0.25 mg ml−1 histone H1 or 0.06 mg ml−1 GST-RBR-C-terminal protein and 5 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP (Perkin Elmer) for 40 min at room temperature and then terminated by the addition of Laemmli sample buffer. Reaction mixtures were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with CBB, and substrate phosphorylation was revealed by autoradiography. For details in other methods, see CITATION. Regulatory networks were formulated as coupled ordinary differential equations or were embedded within a spatial context of the root (see CITATION), where simulations of auxin dynamics were performed by concurrently solving for diffusion, permeability, and decay of auxin by using an Alternating Direction Implicit (ADI) method (CITATION). For details on formal descriptions of regulatory networks, see CITATION. Extended Experimental Procedures Transient Expression in Protoplasts and Coimmunoprecipitation Transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed essentially as described (CITATION) by transfecting 5 × 105 cells with 3 μg each of myc-CDK and HA-CYCD expression constructs. Transfected cells were cultured for 16 hr at RT, then harvested by centrifugation and lysed in extraction buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.8, 10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, 75 mM NaCl, 60 mM beta-glycerophosphate, 2 mM DTT, 0.2% Igepal CA 630, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, 1 mM benzamidine and protease inhibitors (Protease Inhibitor Coctail for plant cells, Sigma). Equal amounts of proteins were subjected to coimmunoprecipitations in a total volume of 100 μl extraction buffer supplemented with 150 mM NaCl, 0.2 mg ml−1 BSA and 1.5 μg of antibody against HA (HA.11 clone 16B12, Covance) or c-Myc epitopes (c-Myc clone 9E10, Covance). Immunocomplexes were captured on 10 μl of Protein G-Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare), washed three times in TBS buffer containing 5% glycerol and 0.1% Igepal CA 630, then eluted by boiling with 30 μl Laemmli sample buffer and subjected to SDS-PAGE. Following gel separation proteins were blotted onto Immobilon-P PVDF transfer membrane (Millipore), and stained with Ponceau S. For immunodetection of tagged proteins monoclonal anti-HA-peroxidase conjugate (clone 3F10, Roche), monoclonal anti-c-Myc (clone 9E10, Covance) and chicken anti-c-Myc (Molecular Probes) antibodies and the SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Thermo Scientific) were used. SCR-RBR Interaction In Planta Col-0 and 35S::SCR-GFP seeds were germinated on 0.5x MSAR, 1% sucrose plates under long day conditions and roots of seven days old seedlings were collected. Samples were first grinded in liquid nitrogen then extracted with ice cold extraction buffer and clarified by centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C. Protein concentration was measured by Bradford assay (Biorad) and 150 μg of proteins were incubated with 20 μl GFP-Trap magnetic beads (Chromotek) in a final volume of 200 μl of extraction buffer supplemented with 150 mM NaCl, 0.2 mg ml−1 BSA for two hours at 4°C on a rotating wheel. Beads were washed three times with TBS buffer containing 5% glycerol and 0.1% Igepal CA 630 then proteins were eluted by boiling with 30 μl Laemmli sample buffer. Affinity purified fraction was analyzed on protein gel blots with an antibody specific for the Arabidopsis RBR protein and monoclonal anti-GFP (clone B34, Covance). Plant Growth Conditions Seeds were sterilized in 5% sodium hypochlorite, imbibed at 4°C in the dark in sterilized water containing 0.1% agarose for 2 days and germinated on plates containing 0.5x Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt mixture, 1% sucrose, and 0.5g/l 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid (MES) at pH 5.8, in 0.8% plant agar. Plates were incubated in a near vertical position at 22°C with a 16h light/8h dark cycle. Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) was used as wild-type and as the background in all transgenic and mutant lines (scr4-1 is WS). CEI Division Frequency Analysis 40 and 36 roots of respectively cdkb1;1 cdkb1;2 mutant or Col-0 WT were used to count the presence of a CEI or CEID. The number of CEI and CEID were divided by the total number of ground tissue cells layers analyzed to obtain the CEI/CEID frequency. Frequencies obtained from plants grown on the same plate were used to calculate the average CEI/CEID frequency and for t test analysis. Plant Materials Used for This Study All plant materials used in this study and relevant references are given in CITATION. Expression Constructs and Entry Clones All expression constructs and entry clones used in this study and relevant references are given in CITATION. Hydroxyurea-Mediated Synchronization and Fluorescence Intensity Quantitation For synchronization seeds from each transgenic line tested were germinated in MS medium and transferred 5 dpg to phytagel-MS medium containing 2 mM HU (adapted from CITATION). To determine protein dynamics prior and during mitosis we measure mean pixel intensity of the whole cell with the same area using Leica LCSlite 2.0 (Leica Microsystems) software. For pSHR::SHR:YFP (n = 75 cells prior and 39 during mitosis), pSCR::SCR:YFP (n = 58 cells prior and 31 during mitosis) and pRBR::RBR:CFP (n = 25 cells prior and 12 during mitosis). For qualitative and quantitative comparison of protein degradation or stabilization, images were recorded with identical confocal settings in all cases. The average intensity prior mitosis was considered as 100% for each transgenic line and compared to the average of the cells during mitosis. Significant differences between measurements were identified with Student’s t test. MG132 Treatment Five-day-old seedlings grown in MS plates were transferred to liquid MS added with 50 μg/ml MG132 (Sigma and Biomol; dissolved to 50 mg/ml in DMSO) or with 0.1% DMSO alone as control, for 4 hr at 20°C in the light before observation and recording. ChIP-Q-PCR Position in NUC Promoter and Used Primers Positions between primers upstream the starting codon: NUC6:-4935-4786 (−4,9); NUC5:-4503-4390: (−4,4); NUC4:-3995-3896: (−3,8); NUC3b:-2944-2812: (−2,9); NUC3a:-2320-2155, (−2,2); NUC2: −1282-1133, (−1,2). Fragment size ranges between 100 and 165 bp. A list of all primers used is given in CITATION. Modeling Procedures During our study it turned out to be essential to analyze regulatory circuit dynamics within the spatial context of the tissue. Given the multiple, non-linear feedback loops involved, we adopted a mathematical and computational approach to unravel the mechanisms that determine which cells undergo asymmetric stem cell divisions. To study the regulatory circuit, we developed a set of coupled ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which we considered capturing the dynamics of the important interacting components within each cell. Those ODEs were subsequently integrated within the tissue context. Mathematical analysis of the well-determined interactions that are presented in the main text shows that the feedbacks involved can create different steady states, which fall into two categories: either high levels of SHR-SCR are found, which is considered to trigger the ACDs, or low levels are found, leading to ordinary cell divisions within the cell files. Note that the modeling effort presented in this paper does not attempt to explain what causes the cell division to be asymmetric nor the repositioning of the cell plate during the CEI/CEID cell divisions, hence, the models do not explicitly describe the ACDs themselves. Rather, the modeling deals with how the cellular positioning of the ACD is determined and coordinated within a tissue, by flipping, at the correct positions and influenced by the root tissue layout, to the ACD-related cell state. We have studied three different models which, by analyzing them consecutively, have helped to reveal key issues and features of ACD determination. Model 1 or “Double Positive Feedback Model”: Linking Cellular Switch-like Behavior to Tissue Radial Patterning The first model presents the minimal requirements to produce a switch-like ACD behavior, capable of transforming the SHR gradient along the radial axis into a well-defined radial boundary. We begin by presenting model 1 and the related analyses. We will then treat the limitations presented by this model which have instigated the development of further extensions as well as further experiments, which will be discussed further below. A severe limitation for quantitative mathematical modeling of this regulatory network is the fact that detailed measurements regarding protein and complex concentrations and production and degradation rates are only marginally available. Moreover, for all processes described within the network, the dissociation constants are basically unknown, so our quantitative knowledge is limited to the overarching timescales of the observed dynamics and abundances of the proteins. We therefore opted to formulate all equations in the basic form of mass action kinetics, except when mass action kinetics would lead to unrestrained growth of mathematical terms. The first model is based on two important experimental observations: the complex formation between SCR and RBR (CITATION) and the observation that SCR is required to keep SHR nuclearly localized. In accordance to our experimental data, we assume that SCR unbound to RBR and nuclear SHR are required in conjunction for activating: (i) the ACDs, in the sense that the state in which both unbound SCR and nuclear SHR are high is the ACD-related cell state; (ii) enhanced SCR production; and (iii) CYCD6;1 production. The ODE Model. The ODE model is given by: (1a) cytosolic SHR: d H c d t = p H c − c H n H c S + c H c H n z − d H c H c (1b) nuclear SHR: d H n d t = c H n H c S z − c H c H n − d H n H n (1c) SCR: d S d t = p S 1 ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) + p S 2 − c T S ( r − R − T ) − d S S (1d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) − d C C (1e) RBR P : d R d t = c R C ( r − R − T ) − d R R (1f) SCR - RBR: d T d t = c T S ( r − R − T ) − d T T The above model describes protein or complex concentrations within a single cell. Experimentally we can clearly discriminate between SHR located in the cytosol and SHR located in the nucleus (see, e.g., CITATIONG and 6H). Importantly, SHR can only diffuse between cells through plasmodesmata when located in the cytosol, and only activate downstream targets when located in the nucleus. We therefore distinguish between cytosolic SHR (H c ) and nuclear SHR (H n ). Cytosolic SHR has a basic production rate ( p H c ) and can enter the nucleus, which depends on SCR, S ( c H n S H c ) , whereas nuclear SHR can leave the nucleus to become localized again inside the cytosol ( c H c H n ) . Similar results were found when SCR instead stabilizes SHR in the nucleus, reducing its exit rate (data not shown). Note however that such dynamics cannot be captured using a single mass-action term. To describe the concentration increase due to SHR entering the nucleus we have to take into account the relatively small volume of the nucleus compared to the cytosol. Hence a correction factor z is brought in, representing the percentage of the cell occupied by the nucleus ( ( c H n H c S ) / z ) . Likewise, SHR moving back into the cytosol again requires the correction factor z to capture the consequential increase in cytosolic SHR concentration ( c H c H n z ) . Finally, cytosolic SHR has a basic turnover/decay term ( d H c H c ) , and a similar turnover/decay term is used for all variables in our model (i.e., d H n H n , d S S , d C C , d R R , and d T T ). Regarding the turnover, please note that we explicitly assume degradation, but no dissociation of the SCR-RBR complex. The results do not change when dissociation is also considered, provided its rate is relatively low. SCR which is not bound to RBR is described by the variable S. In accordance with published observations, there is a small background production of SCR, S ( p S 2 ) , but its production can be geared up by the combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR ( ( p S 1 H n S ) / ( 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) ) . Note that we explicitly require both nuclear SHR and SCR for SCR activation, nuclear SHR alone not being sufficient. We use here a saturation term to keep the levels of H n and S bounded. Without such a saturation and using only mass-action terms, their levels would become, for many parameter settings, infinitely large. The saturation, however, does not play a role in the generation of bistability. Note that it is not always realized that the conventional Michaelis-Menten term, derived for the description of enzyme kinetics, makes the hidden assumption that complex formation reduces the effective concentration of only one of the variables, while not affecting the other (i.e. it assumes that one variable is at a much lower concentration than the other, which is typically the enzyme of a reaction with substrate in excess). In many situations, especially non-enzyme contexts, this is clearly an invalid assumption. CITATION therefore developed an improved Michaelis-Menten term, employed here, based upon the so-called Total Quasi Steady State assumption, which better captures the dynamics when there is no a priori reason to assume a large concentration difference. SCR can bind to RBR, to form SCR-RBR, T. We here take the simplifying view that the total concentration of RBR per cell remains constant (given by the parameter r), but that only the non-phosphorylated form can bind to SCR. The total amount of RBR that is available to bind is given by total RBR minus RBRP, R, and RBR within the SCR-RBR complex, T. Taking this into account, the total amount of RBR available to bind equals ( r − R − T ) , and the rate by which SCR binds to RBR is therefore given by c T S ( r − R − T ) . The combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR is able to activate the production of CYCD6;1, C. For this activation we use a similar response as used for the SCR activation ( ( p C H n S ) / ( 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) ) . Finally, CYCD6;1, in its turn, causes phosphorylation of non-phosphorylated RBR ( c R C ( r − R − T ) ) . Note that this equation for RBRP implicitly assumes that de novo RBR production gives rise to non-phosphorylated RBR only, whereas CYCD6;1 is essentially required for its phosphorylation. Spatial Embedding of the ODE Model. Within the spatial model, each individual cell contains the same regulatory network, whereas the spatial coupling between cells takes place through cytosolic SHR, H c , which is able to diffuse between cells. In the model we use concentrations rather than total protein content of cells, given that concentration differences, and not total protein amount itself, drives the fluxes between the cells. Note that because the cells can have very different sizes, the concentration can be the same, whereas the total protein content can be quite different. Root Layout. As realistic root layouts for our simulations, we have been using both digitized microscopy images of the root and more caricature-like layouts, which capture all essential elements of the root tip. Because, for the questions asked in this specific study, the real and caricature layout do not present different outcomes or insights, we here only show the results for the caricature layout, which allows us to show the results in a clearer fashion. For the simulations we are using a two-dimensional (2D) grid, representing a cross-section through the root, in which the bilateral symmetry of the root across the xylem axis is captured. For the grid we use a spatial resolution of 0.5 μm. CITATIONA and S3C shows the detailed layout of the root used in the simulations, with all the different cell types indicated. It is partly based on earlier studies, in which we used a rectangular layout (CITATION; CITATION). For the unraveling of the organization within the stem cell niche, however, it turned out to be essential to take the specific structure within the stem cell niche into account. SHR Transport. The level of cytosolic SHR as determined by the regulatory network and intercellular diffusion is captured by a single concentration value for each cell. We here describe the spread of SHR through the cells by means of plasmodesmata as a diffusive process. The diffusion of SHR between cells is therefore calculated in the following way. First, we assumed that the diffusion predominantly takes place through plasmodesmata, and that the cell wall therefore does not have to be taken into account. We then used the total shared boundary length between cells (ignoring the cell wall) and the distance between the centroids of the cells to calculate the effective diffusive flux between them: J H → ( i → j ) = D H L ( i , j ) H c ( i ) − H c ( j ) | i ¯ → − j ¯ → | , where J H → ( i → j ) is the flux from cell i to cell j; D H is the diffusion rate of SHR; L ( i , j ) is the shared boundary length between i and j; H c ( i ) , H c ( j ) are the cytosolic SHR concentrations in both cells, and i ¯ → , j ¯ → vectors to the centroid of both cells. Note that the protein movement is here described as a purely diffusive process, hence dependent on the distance between the cell centers and the length of shared cell wall between the cells. If alternatively passage through the plasmodesmata would be the only factor limiting SHR spread, it should instead be described as a transport process dependent on the length of shared cell wall between the cells, not on the distance between the cells. In reality, the flux will be limited by a mixture of both cytosolic diffusion and transport through the plasmodesmata. Here, however, we have not explored these details further. The change in concentration is given by: ∂ H c ( i ) ∂ t = − ∑ k J H → ( i → k ) V ( i ) , where V ( i ) is the total area of cell i, and k sums over all direct neighbors of the cell. Within the root tip there is quite a large variation in cell size, whereas the size of the nucleus typically only marginally differs between cells. The parameter z, which stands for the fraction of the cell occupied by the nucleus, is therefore taken into account as a cell-specific property: z ( i ) = V n / V ( i ) , where V n is the typical nuclear area, and V ( i ) the total cell area of cell i. In the spatial model we further assume that only vascular and pericycle cells produce SHR (i.e., for all other cell types p H c = 0 ), and that inversely all but the vascular and pericycle cells have a small background production of SCR (i.e., for vascular and pericycle cells, p S 2 = 0 ). The parameter values used are shown in CITATION. They were chosen to represent realistic dynamics and timescales. The equations were solved by using the Runge-Kutta 4th order method, with Δ t = 10 − 3 s. Model 1 Presents Switch-like ACD Behavior. While our final results strongly emphasize the importance of the spatial integration of the system, we here present further analysis on the ODEs that describe the dynamics at the single cell level, as this allows us to better dissect the robustness of the models and to make apparent what arises due to cellular interactions and tissue context. We first asked the question what would be the equilibrium SCR and nuclear SHR levels in the ODE version of model 1 (CITATION), for different levels of production cq. influx of SHR. We therefore created a bifurcation diagram by varying p H c and observing the equilibria and their stability. CITATIONH depicts the equilibria in terms of SCR levels unbound to RBR, S. It shows that bistability can be found over a very wide range of SHR influx levels. One stable steady state presents very high H n and S levels, corresponding to the ACD cell state, while the other stable steady state presents low H n and S levels, corresponding to the default cell behavior. The stable steady states are separated by an unstable saddle point, which presents a threshold that needs to be crossed to switch from one state to the other. For low values of SHR influx there is only one stable state, illustrating that sufficient SHR influx is needed to gain the potential of the ACD cell state, while very high SHR influx (more than 25 times higher than the SHR influx into CEI/CEID/endodermal cells at our default parameter settings) causes the low equilibrium to disappear, leading to the flip to the ACD cell state. Dissecting the Bistability: The Importance of a Double Feedback Loop. To dissect what feedbacks are required for triggering the ACD behavior, and to analyze their individual contributions as well as their combined actions, it is very helpful to graphically capture the cause of the bistability. For model 1 this is possible by combining the methods of quasi-steady-state (QSS) analysis and nullcline analysis. QSS analysis allows us to reduce the number of independent variables within a system. It is typically done when certain variables are varying on a much faster timescale relative to the others, but it can also be applied for a more general analysis on the number of equilibria within a system. Importantly, a QSS analysis never changes the number of equilibria in a system, and can therefore be straightforwardly applied to determine those. (The stability of those equilibria can change though, in the sense that equilibria that are found to be stable after the QSS reduction of the number of variables could in fact be unstable in the original model.) QSS analysis allows the reduction of model 1 to two independent variables, nuclear SHR, H n , and SCR not bound to RBR, S: (2a) cytosolic SHR: H c = p H c + c H c H n z c H n S + d H c (2b) CYCD 6 ; 1 : C = p C d C ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) (2c) RBR P : R = r c R d T C c R d T C + d R c T S − d R d T (2d) SCR - RBR: T = r d R c T S c R d T C + d R c T S − d R d T (2e) nuclear SHR: d H n d t = c H n H c S z − c H c H n − d H n H n (2f) SCR: d S d t = p S 1 H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S + p S 2 − c T S ( r − R − T ) − d S S Having reduced the system to two independent variables enables two-dimensional phase-plane analysis, which eases graphical representation. In CITATIONI and CITATIONE, we show the phase-plane of nuclear SHR, H n , against SCR unbound to RBR, S, both on a logarithmic scale, as well as the nullclines and vector field for the above model, CITATION. The intersections of the nullclines indicate the equilibria of the system. As the lines cross thrice, this indicates three equilibria. Two of them are stable, separated by an unstable equilibrium, a saddle, i.e., it illustrates the bistability. To dissect to which extent the bistability is either due to the SCR transcription feedback loop (i.e., due to the fact that SCR unbound to RBR in the presence of nuclear SHR is activating SCR transcription) or due to the CYCD6-mediated feedback loop (i.e., due to the fact that SCR unbound to RBR and nuclear SHR activate CYCD6;1, which effectively leads to RBR phosphorylation, and hence more SCR unbound to RBR), we generated nullclines for the cases where one or both of the feedback loops are removed (which can be done by setting p S1 and/or p c to zero). Although the shape of nullclines are modified, the qualitative behavior of bistability is preserved when one of the feedbacks is removed (CITATIONJ, 3K, CITATIONF, and S2G). However, if both are turned off, the system fails to present bistability for any possible parameter setting (CITATIONL and CITATIONH). We therefore conclude that it is the combined (and redundant) action of two feedback loops which determines the huge potential for bistability underlying the behavior of ACD specification. Within the spatial simulations, however, the SHR influx-dependent bistability leads to two possible scenarios. Because SHR production is limited to the vasculature while degraded everywhere, a radial gradient in SHR levels is formed. One possibility is that the highest SHR levels, found close to the vasculature, are not sufficient to flip to the ACD state. In that case SHR keeps its graded radial distribution. Alternatively, the positive feedback loops are sufficiently strong (e.g., because the value of p c is higher) that the cells close to the vasculature reach SHR levels that are above the fold bifurcation, and hence enter the ACD cell state. In the latter case the nuclearization of SHR in the endodermis due to the high SHR-SCR levels prevents further spread of cytosolic SHR, reducing the SHR levels beyond the endodermis to close to zero. Consequently, the spatial simulations present a very strong radial pattern, in which only a single cell file differentiates, even when the initial SHR gradient could have triggered the ACD cell state in cell files further outward. Importantly, the effect that the activation of the ACD has on the SHR gradient itself causes the sharp, reliable, single-cell-layer-wide response, with strongly deviating expression levels for a whole range of proteins, to an initially more shallow and possibly very variable radial gradient. The importance of the response to a morphogen gradient on the gradient itself has been elucidated before for animal systems (CITATION). In short, while the first model cannot explain why ACDs are limited to specific cells rather than the whole endodermal cell file, it has allowed us to link cellular switch-like behavior to robust radial patterning within the tissue. Model 1, or the “double positive-feedback model” (1) has the minimal requirements to produce the switch-like ACD behavior; (2) shows how the SHR gradient along the radial axis can be transformed in a radial switch; and (3) allows us to understand through nullcline analysis the role of the two positive feedback loops. Model 2 or “Auxin-Regulated Double Positive Feedback Model”: Longitudinal Precision of Switch After establishing that the experimentally derived model could explain the radial, but not the longitudinal patterning, we explored whether it would be theoretically possible that the auxin gradient discovered previously (CITATION) could supply the required longitudinal cue. We required that an auxin-dependent link in the regulatory network should not only confine the ACD cell state to the correct cells, but should also capture all the different dynamics observed in wild-type and mutants and during interferences. We found that when the effect of auxin was brought into the model through an auxin-dependent modification of the CYCD6;1 activation rate, all these requirements were met, while this was not straightforwardly the case for other choices, such as auxin inhibiting the RBR phosphorylation by CYCD6;1 or auxin inhibiting the formation of the SCR-RBR complex. This generated a hypothesis of auxin-augmented CYCD6;1 activation, which was confirmed experimentally. In the second model we therefore introduce auxin into the network (model 2, aka the “auxin-regulated double positive-feedback model”), through an auxin-dependent activation of CYCD6;1 by modifying CITATION, (3) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C ( X h c X h + X h ) ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) − d C C , where X represents the average auxin concentration within the cell. The parameter c X indicates the auxin concentration at which the auxin-mediated CYCD6;1 activation is half-maximal, and h is the so-called Hill-coefficient, indicating the steepness of the sigmoidal relationship. We have used, in contrast to all other terms, a sigmoidal Hill function, in order to describe a relatively steep dependency of CYCD6;1 activation on auxin. This steep dependency was derived from the fact that the AxCxA mutant and/or auxin treatment only presents a limited expansion of the zone in which ACDs are observed, but is not required nor relevant for the bistability presented by the model (see section on high robustness below). The steepness of the Hill coefficient, h = 3, has been based upon the experimental observations on the SCR AxCxA mutant and the auxin treatments: in simulations with a non-sigmoidal dependency we observed more dramatically expanded ACDs in the SCRAxCxA background and/or when the root was treated with auxin. Please note, however, that instead of a sigmoidal dependency on auxin, these observations could alternatively be caused by other, non-linear saturations within the cell-autonomous network itself (data not shown). Spatial Implementation of Auxin Transport. To model the auxin flow in the spatial model, each cell consists of multiple grid points, such that auxin concentrations may vary within cells. The cell wall is described as a separate entity, one grid point (0.5 μm) wide. Auxin flow through a cell requires influx permeability, bringing auxin into the cell across the membrane, diffusion within the cell, and efflux permeability, allowing auxin to cross the membrane and enter the cell wall space. Once in the cell wall space, auxin can freely diffuse until it reaches a membrane. In the basic model, influx is given by a constant permeability rate, P i n , in units of μ m / s . Thus, we do not take for example any differential AUX1 expression levels into account, but assume influx to be homogeneous for all cells and along all their membrane. In contrast, auxin efflux permeability is assigned a strong ( P e S P I N ) , weak ( P e W P I N ) , or background ( P e b g ) value, depending on the level of PIN export facilitators at the membrane. The choice of level and orientation of the PINs was determined by visual inspection of images showing the location and intensity of fluorescent PIN fusion proteins (see CITATION). Background efflux permeability P e b g is fixed at 5% of the permeability resulting from high intensity PIN expression. All parameters are shown in CITATION. Diffusion of auxin takes place within cells and cell walls and is given by J X → = − D X ∇ → X , where D corresponds to the diffusion rate, given in units of μ m 2 / s (note that in contrast permeability rates carry the unit of μ m / s ), and X corresponds to the auxin concentration, given in arbitrary units [a.u.]. In the cell wall, auxin diffusion is slower, modeled by a reduction factor k: J X → = − D X / k ∇ → X . Diffusion is not permitted across cell membranes (i.e., no flux boundary conditions). The flux due to auxin permeability across a membrane can be written as (4) J X → = { − ( P e S P I N n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if PINs are expressed strongly , − ( P e W P I N n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if PINs are expressed weakly , − ( P e b g n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if only background efflux takes place , where n ˆ is the inward directed unit vector, perpendicular to the membrane; X i n represents the auxin concentration in the cytosol at the grid point bordering the cell membrane; and X o u t represents the auxin concentration in the cell wall grid point immediately adjacent to the cell membrane. Simulations of auxin dynamics are performed by concurrently solving for the diffusion, permeability and decay of auxin, using an Alternating Direction Implicit (ADI) method (CITATION). The boundary conditions at the shootward end of the simulated root segment, which guarantee a constant influx of auxin into the root, are implemented exactly as described previously (CITATION). PIN Localization. An important aspect of the auxin transport model is the intracellular localization of the different PIN proteins, which drive the directed auxin transport through the cells. To be able to localize within the model specific PINs rootward, shootward or laterally, requires defining, for each cell, which part of its membrane is orientated in those different directions. For rectangular cells this is a trivial task, but in the more complex layout this required a different strategy. We have developed an algorithm that compartmentalizes each cell into four different zones, which are, relative to the centroid of the cell, oriented upward, downward, inward, or outward. CITATIONB and S3D shows for each cell those different zonations in green, purple, cyan, and red, respectively. When, for a specific cell type, we want to position PINs along a certain direction, we make use of all membrane positions within that zone (and belonging to cells of the required cell type; CITATIONA and S3C), and position within the model the PIN proteins at those grid points. The orientations used for PIN localization are indicated in CITATION. Auxin Confines ACDs to CEI/CEID. In the spatial simulations of model 2 the ACDs are confined to the CEI/CEID (see CITATIONO and 4P). In the analysis of model 1 we pointed out that both feedback loops act redundantly to generate the required bistability. In contrast, model 2 shows that each feedback loop is essential for the correct spatial patterning, with the SCR-transcription feedback loop required for reaching high SCR levels and making the two possible states very distinct, while the feedback loop through CYCD6;1 is essential for the auxin-mediated augmentation, required for the longitudinal precision of the switch. The next question, however, is the robustness of this bistability-generating network, given the high level of uncertainty in the parameter values, and whether the network, when embedded within the spatial context of the root, is able to preserve the correct spatial pattern, with only the CEI/CEID cells entering the ACD cell state, when parameter values are diverging from the default ones. High Robustness of Circuit due to Feedback Loops. We first checked for the default set of parameter values the range over which bistability can be observed when varying parameters one at a time (see CITATION). This revealed that for all parameters the range over which bistability is yielded is huge. Such a parameter sweep, however, does not answer the question if this robustness stems from the particular choice of our default combination of parameters. We therefore continued with a more thorough study on the robustness of the regulatory circuit (CITATION and CITATION). Because the equations were formulated and the parameters defined to capture specific biological meanings, they are not necessarily independent from one another. Moreover, when screening for the parameter range for which specifically the bistable behavior can be observed, it is best to reduce the number of free parameters. We thus first nondimensionalized model 2: (5a) cytosolic SHR : d H c ′ d τ = i − b S ′ H c ′ + b d H n ′ − H c ′ (5b) nuclear SHR : d H n ′ d τ = H c ′ S ′ − d H n ′ − e H n ′ (5c) SCR : d S ′ d τ = f H n ′ S ′ 1 + ( H n ′ + S ′ ) / g + 1 − S ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − v S ′ (5d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C ′ d τ = j H n ′ S ′ 1 + ( H n ′ + S ′ ) / g − k C ′ (5e) RBR P : d R ′ d τ = C ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − m R ′ (5f) SCR - RBR : d T ′ d τ = p S ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − q T ′ Where H c ′ = α H c , H n ′ = β H n , S ′ = β S , C ′ = δ C , R ′ = ε R , T ′ = ε T , τ = η t ; the variable rescalings are given by α = c H n / ( d H c z ) , β = d H c / p S 2 , δ = c R / d H C , ε = c T / d h c , and η = d h c ; and the parameter rescalings are given by i = p H c c H n / ( z d H c 2 ) , b = c H n p S 2 / d H c 2 , d = c H c / d H c , e = d H n / d H c , f = p S 1 p S 2 / d H c 2 , g = d H c c S / p S 2 , w = r c T / d H c , v = d S / d H c , j = p C c R p S 2 2 X h / ( d H c 4 ( c X h + X h ) ) , k = d C / d H c , m = d R / d H c , p = c T p S 2 / d H c 2 , and q = d T / d H c . The previously derived QSS reduction of the model allowed us to very directly and rapidly verify for a broad range of different parameter settings if the model presents three equilibria and thus bistable behavior. To test whether the bistability is indeed a structural property of the model, we screened for the bistability while concurrently varying the values of all the nondimensionalized parameters given above. This analysis has been performed by randomly varying each parameter value over orders of magnitude around the default value (we present the results for 10-, 100-, 10000-, 106- and 109-fold variations). For the random value of each parameter we have used a log uniform distribution: c = 10 ( log 10 ( c 0 ) − log 10 ( f ) / 2 + p ( c , f ) ) , where c is the random value of the parameter; c 0 the default value of the parameter; f the fold variation; and p ( c , f ) = ( H ( c ) − H ( c − log 10 ( f ) ) / log 10 ( f ) ) the probability density function, in which H is the Heaviside step function. For example, in the case of a 10,000-fold random variation around the value c 0 = 1, the values of parameter c will lie between 0.01 and 100, and the probability of the parameter to be between 0.01 and 0.1 will be as large as the probability for it to lie between 0.1 and 1, between 1 and 10, or between 10 and 100. We first concurrently varied all parameters around default values that were calculated from the parameter values given in CITATION, using the parameter rescaling formulas shown above, for two different levels of auxin, X = 1000 and X = 10,000. The probability of bistability to appear in the system is shown in CITATION, based upon 10,000 random drawings for each fold-variation and default parameter setting. (Note, that due to the two feedback loops there also exists the possibility of having five equilibria, three of which being stable. This was typically observed in around 0.1% of the random drawings, and were counted to present the bistability as well.) We observe that the simplified model presents a very high level of robustness in behavior. For example, even with a billion-fold variation in all parameters, 26% of the simulations still present qualitatively similar behavior. There is also an “auxin” effect: For X = 10,000, the probability of finding bistability is lower when fold-variations are not as high as for X = 1000. This is due to the fact that for the default parameters at high levels of auxin the system is close to the bifurcation which can bring the cell to the ACD-related state. However, when a much larger parameter range is sampled, the probabilities to find bistability become much more comparable again, illustrating that the bistability is an overarching property of the model. To check the importance of the specific choice of the default parameters in this analysis, we repeated the screening for bistability for the case where all the default values around which the parameters are varied in CITATION are set to unit value (one). Note that this could be considered the worst-case scenario, given that it corresponds to almost no influx of SHR (i = 1), very low total amounts of RBR that could bind to SCR (w = 1), and the amplification loops being almost always saturated (g = 1). But even for these very unfavorable parameter settings, adding sufficiently high levels of noise causes appearance of bistability in 5.8% of the cases. Even more striking, when we increased for those three parameters their default value to 1,000, while keeping all other parameters at a value of 1, the incidence rate of bistability turned out to be even higher than around the parameter values as used throughout the rest of the paper. We therefore conclude that one of the key behaviors of the model is presenting bistability over a wide parameter range. Finally we checked if robustness of the bistable switch indeed corresponds to robustness of the spatial patterning, by determining the range over which qualitatively the same pattern (i.e., only QC and CEI/CEID presenting the ACD cell state) can be observed in spatial simulations when each parameter value is varied individually while keeping all others at their default value (see the last column in CITATION). To perform the simulations within reasonable computational time, simulations were started at the final configuration of the previous parameter setting, as it was unfeasible to do massive screenings of fully randomized parameters. These simulations revealed that for all parameters the range over which the correct patterning can be observed is again very large. In short, model 2, or the “auxin-regulated double positive-feedback model” (1) has the minimal requirements to confine the ACD behavior to a single cell at a specific location; (2) shows that the molecular network integrates an interplay between the radial SHR gradient and the longitudinal auxin gradient; (3) shows that the switching behavior is very general and robust, causing the right cells to enter the ACD cell state over a wide parameter range. Spatial Simulations of Model 2 Show that, Unlike Model 1, SHR Does Not Remain Confined to the Endodermis. While, compared to model 1, model 2 clearly presents an improvement in capturing the regulation of the ACDs, it nevertheless fails to explain the confinement of SHR to the endodermis. This is because in model 2 only the cells which enter the ACD state can block the SHR throughput from the vasculature to the external cell files. It therefore allows SHR to move from the endodermal cells into the cortex, because those endodermal cells are not in the ACD state. Not only this is unlike what is observed experimentally, but it also reduces the robustness of the dynamics regarding the radial aspect of the patterning. Model 3 or “Full Model”: SHR Confinement In model 2, SHR ends up in the cortex and epidermis, because RBR binding to SCR suppresses the interaction of SCR with SHR, thereby preventing the nuclear localization of SHR. The experimental observation that SHR remains confined to the endodermis suggested to us that this assumption was incorrect and that RBR binding to SCR does not prevent SCR to interact with SHR. This was further strengthened by the observation that src mutants do not present such a nuclear localization of SHR in the endodermis. So it rather seemed to be the case that RBR prevents SHR-SCR to activate downstream targets. In short, the modeling suggested that a ternary complex of SHR-SCR-RBR can be formed, for which we were later able to gather experimental evidence. We therefore extended model 2 to explicitly take into account not only the SCR-RBR complex, but also the SHR-SCR and SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex. CITATIONA shows the regulatory network of model 3. While in the previous models the combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR was introduced without this combined action necessarily having to be based on complex formation, we here take an explicit formation of a SHR-SCR complex into account (compare CITATIONA to CITATIONL). SCR continues to influence the nuclear localization of SHR, but now by explicitly forming a complex that is located in the nucleus, instead of promoting the entry rate of SHR from the cytosol into the nucleus. The equations are as follows: (6a) SHR : d H d t = p H − c A S H − c U 2 T H − d H H (6b) SCR : d S d t = p S 1 A + p S 2 − c A S H − c T S ( r − R − T − z U ) − d S S (6c) SHR - SCR : d A d t = c A S H z − d A A − c U A ( r − R − T − z U ) (6d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C X h c X h + X h A − d C C (6e) RBR P : d R d t = c R C ( r − R − T − z U ) − d R R (6f) SCR - RBR : d T d t = c T S ( r − R − T − z U ) − d T T − c U 2 T H + d U z U (6g) SHR - SCR - RBR : d U d t = c U A ( r − R − T − z U ) + c U 2 T H z − d U U Cytosolic, unbound SHR, H, has a basic production rate (p H ) and can bind to either SCR, S ( c A S H ) , or to the SCR-RBR complex, T ( c U 2 T H ) . This leads to the formation of the SHR-SCR complex, A, and the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U, respectively. Again we describe all complex formations as irreversible processes, to prevent the addition of many more parameters that have not yet been experimentally established, but we have assured ourselves that the temporal and spatial dynamics do not change when we take all the different possibilities of the complexes dissociating into account as well, as long as the kinetic rates are sufficiently balanced toward association (data not shown). All variables have again a basic turnover/decay (given by d H H , d A A , d S S , d C C , d R R , d T T , and d U U ). The d S term captures the SCR degradation, considered to be as large as d T , the degradation of SCR-RBR. The parameter d R is capturing both degradation and dephosphorylation of RBRP. Regarding the turnover/decay terms, we made the following three choices. First, given that large fluctuations in total RBR have not been experimentally observed, we opted for describing RBR as a constant pool (the regulation of which is kept out of the scope of this paper) in order not to further expand the number of variables in the model, preventing introduction of more parameters that would capture processes currently unclear and irrelevant for the dynamics of and insights from the model study. Specifically, we wanted to leave open whether loss of phosphorylated RBR occurs due to degradation or dephosphorylation currently unknown. By capturing RBR as a constant pool, both scenarios lead to exactly the same equations within the framework presented here. Second, we explicitly assume the complex dissociation sequence SHR-SCR-RBR→SCR-RBR→RBR, again to limit the number of terms in the model and the associated parameter space. Thus, d U describes the transition from SHR-SCR-RBR to SCR-RBR, due to the degradation of SHR, considered to be as large as d H . Third, following our policy of leaving out all the dissociation terms forced us into having to make one non-trivial decision. Decay of SCR when it is bound within the ternary SHR-SCR-RBR complex implies dissociation of SHR and RBR. Hence, if we would include this decay, we would introduce one dissociation term into the model, which we felt to be confusing. Alternatively, we could simply leave out this decay term. We opted for the latter, given that it prevents the addition of yet three more terms to the model and only marginally influences the dynamics, as we have tested in a version which includes every single dissociation term. There is again a small background production of SCR, S ( p S 2 ) , but its production can be geared up by the SHR-SCR complex, A ( p S 1 A ) . Because we now explicitly describe the formation of the complex underlying downstream activation, there is no need anymore to introduce a saturation in those terms. SCR can bind to RBR, to form SCR-RBR, T. Assuming that the total amount of RBR per cell remains constant (given by the parameter r), but that only the non-phosphorylated form can bind to SCR, the total amount of RBR that is available to bind is given by total RBR, minus the amount of RBRP, R, as well as all RBR already in a complex (i.e., SCR-RBR, T, and SHR-SCR-RBR, U). Taking this into account, the total amount of RBR available to bind equals ( r − R − T − U ) , and the rate by which SCR binds to RBR is therefore given by c T S ( r − R − T − U ) . Regarding the SHR-SCR complex, A, we take the view that although SCR is already bound to SHR, it can still bind to RBR as well, to form the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U ( c U A ( r − R − T − U ) ) . The combined action of the SHR-SCR complex, A (but not the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U) is able to activate the production of CYCD6;1, C ( p c X h / ( c X h + X h ) A ) . Finally, CYCD6;1, in its turn, causes phosphorylation of non-phosphorylated RBR ( c R C ( r − R − T − U ) ) . Note that this equation for RBRP implicitly assumes that de novo RBR production gives rise to non-phosphorylated RBR only, while CYCD6;1 is essentially required for its phosphorylation. Because both the SHR-SCR complex, A, and the ternary complex, U, are nuclearly localized, the correction term z is also required for the formation of the ternary complex from SHR and SCR-RBR. For the binding of RBR to SHR-SCR no such correction factor is needed because both SHR-SCR and the ternary complex are nuclearly localized. Also in the calculation of the total amount of RBR that is available to bind, it has to be taken into account that the ternary complex is only nuclearly localized and therefore presents a smaller contribution to the reduction of available RBR. Hence, the total amount of RBR available to bind now equals ( r − R − T − z U ) . Moreover, to capture the degradation SHR-SCR-RBR→SCR-RBR, which implies a nuclear to cellular transition, the correction factor z is also required. Moreover, we assumed that binding of SHR to SCR does not depend on whether SCR is already bound to RBR ( c A = c U 2 ) , and likewise, that binding of RBR to SCR does not depend on whether SCR is already bound to SHR ( c T = c U ) . A strict parameter mapping from model 2 to model 3 is missing, given that we introduced the SHR-SCR complex and the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex. Nevertheless, most parameters have the same meaning and units as in model 2, and we therefore mainly used the same values, to ensure that the comparison between the models is biologically meaningful. Moreover, we took the reasonable choices that c A = c H n and d A = d H n . However, the parameters p C and p S 1 changed units, due to the fact that the previous model did not describe the SHR-SCR complex explicitly, hence for those parameters a direct mapping was not possible. To enable model comparisons in a fair manner, the parameters p C and p S 1 , as well as the value of p S 2 , were chosen, such that the bifurcation points in model 1 and 2, as shown in CITATIONH and CITATIONM, and in model 3, as shown in CITATIONN and S4O, are positioned at comparable values, within a 25% variation range. For the same reason we also modified the value of c R . (Note that we did not fine-tune the parameters to carefully match the bifurcation points.) Finally, to obtain comparable spatial patterns, we also modified the value of p H , compared to the value of p H c used previously. The Importance of the Ternary Complex: SHR Confinement. Model 3 again presents two clearly distinct cell states, with only the QC and CEI/CEID cells entering the ACD cell state. The third model presents in a parsimonious way our current understanding of the regulatory circuit underlying ACDs. It is, however, too intricate to allow for nullcline analysis, as presented in CITATIONI–3L and CITATIONE–S2H, or large-scale parameter screening, as presented in CITATION. Nevertheless, we assured ourselves that when the further extensions were included, the model still presented robust radial and lateral specification of the ACD cell state. We did so by first determining again, through bifurcation analysis, for each individual parameter the range over which bistability can be observed when that parameter is varied while keeping all others at their default values. The ranges are given in the one but last column in CITATION. Next, we determined again, through spatial computer simulations, the parameter range for which we do not observe any perturbation in the spatial pattern, once this is established for the default parameter setting (i.e., when starting with the pattern as shown in CITATIONC–5G and CITATIONI–S4M). The obtained parameter ranges are given in the last column of CITATION. Together, it shows that both the bistability and the spatial pattern formation are again a robust feature of the model. Moreover, the model presents SHR confinement in the endodermis, without flipping to the ACD cell state, through the formation of the ternary complex. The robustness of the spatial patterning in the radial direction is caused by the “capturing” the SHR in the endodermal layer, which prevents other cell files to gain the potential to reach high SHR-SCR levels. The robustness in the transversal direction is due to the fact that the switch to the ACD state requires sufficiently high auxin levels, right in the region where the auxin gradient is steepest. In short, model 3, or the “full model” (1) can explain both ACD localization and SHR restriction and (2) is highly robust. Reset: Turning Off the ACD-Related Cell State during Asymmetric Cell Division Until now we have been showing that the bistability is advantageous for conferring precision and robustness, but concurrently it presents the problem of how to turn the ACD-state off during tissue dynamics. We therefore finalize by explaining the importance of a “reset” during cell division, how the reset-mechanism functions within model 3, for which we again have gained experimental evidence. While high auxin levels are able to sufficiently augment the CYCD6;1 feedback loop to bring the CEI cell into the ACD-related or “on” state, it is not inversely true that a low auxin level can bring the cell back into the “off” state (CITATIONM and CITATIONF). We explored whether increased protein degradation during the cell cycle progression could cause the cell to switch off. To do so, we studied in the third, full model the effect of increased protein degradation, taking two possible scenarios into account. The first possibility that we explored is an equally increasing breakdown of SHR, SCR, RBR and all the complexes that they form. Such a scenario can be captured by multiplying all decay terms in CITATION with a factor d which describes the increased protein degradation level (i.e., d H becomes d × d H , d S becomes d × d S , etc, for all d H , d S , d A , d C , d R , d T , d U ). When d = 1, we capture the default situation, while d > 1 describes increased protein degradation levels (and d < 1 reduced degradation levels). The second scenario is that increased protein degradation does not act on complexes, but is restricted to the free proteins. In this scenario, the factor d would only affect d H , d S , d C , and d R . Now to test whether this could “reset” the CEID, we analyzed the dynamics of that cell within the full ODE model, using, by probing the spatial model at steady state, its correct auxin level (X = 5223 a.u.); SHR influx (pH = 332.5a.u./h); and relative size of the nucleus (z = 0.07634). CITATIONL shows a bifurcation diagram for the equilibrium level of SHR-SCR, A, as a function of the increased level of protein degradation for the first scenario, in which all protein degradation can become elevated. It can be seen that when d = 1, i.e., when there is no elevated protein degradation, there are three equilibria, two of which are stable. This implies that the neighboring shootward cell of the CEI within the endodermal cell file could indeed be either in the “on” state or in the “off” state, but having inherited its state from the CEI would be expected to be in the “on” state. If, however, the ACD takes place concurrently with increased protein degradation, the picture becomes different: when d > 2.426, the “on” equilibrium disappears through a fold bifurcation, and the dynamics are expected to move to the “off” equilibrium. In short, a 2.5 times higher protein degradation rate is sufficient to cause the system to switch off. CITATIONX presents the second scenario, in which complexes are not available for accelerated degradation. Even though in this scenario the complexes themselves do not undergo increased breakdown, again the “on” equilibrium disappears at higher degradation levels, but now requiring values of d > 5.401, more than twice as high as in the first scenario. Thus, the rapid breakdown of their substrates can cause a sufficient reduction in complex formation to bring the cell into the “off” state. We do not modify in these simulations the total amount of RBR, which effectively implies a higher turnover during this phase of the cell cycle. A phase of accelerated protein degradation during the cell cycle will inevitably be of a limited duration. While in CITATIONL and CITATIONY we focused on the disappearance of the “on” state, this does not automatically guarantee that the cell will end up in the “off” state. When the time span of the accelerated protein degradation is too short, the dynamics could relapse if during this phase it has not passed the separatrix formed by the stable manifold of the saddle point which separates the basins of attraction of the two stable equilibria. CITATIONZ shows the time dynamics for both a too short (15 min, dashed lines) and sufficiently long (1 hr 30 min, continuous lines) time span of accelerated protein degradation (d = 10), after which protein degradation returns to the default level (d = 1), depicted for both scenarios. The dynamics starts from the “on” state when, at time = 0 hr accelerated protein degradation is initiated. If the time span is too short, a relapse to the “on” state can be observed, while a sufficiently long time span causes the dynamics to settle in the “off” state. Note that in the first scenario the initial drop is faster, and hence the time span required is shorter. Also note the undershoot that can be observed for the second scenario. This is due to the fact that increased nondiscriminatory protein degradation has not only a negative, but also a positive effect on SHR-SCR levels because increased complex breakdown reduces buffering through the ternary complex. In the second scenario, however, this positive effect is lacking. The importance of the right balance between the level of accelerated protein degradation and the time interval during which accelerated degradation takes place, is further illustrated in CITATIONM, for the first scenario. It shows that for a four-fold increase in protein degradation a time window of 40 min is not sufficient for turning the cell “off’”, while a 10-fold increase in protein degradation turns the cell off, even when the time window is as short as 40 min. If the timescale were instead two hours, also a four-fold increase in protein degradation suffices to change the cell state. Also note that the fast degradation rates can trigger transient oscillatory dynamics. Specific Extra Details Regarding the Simulations Presented in CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION In the simulations of model 1, we used p C = 1 for CITATIONN, 3P, and 3R, p C = 50 for CITATIONO, 3Q, and 3S, and p C = 0 a.u.−1h−1 for CITATIONH. All other parameter values used are as given in CITATION. The relative nucleus size z and auxin concentration X used for the ODE analyses are based upon the size of the CEI in the spatial simulations (z = 0.0185787) and its equilibrium auxin level (X = 16054.8 a.u.). While p H c (model 1 and 2) and p H (model 3) in the spatial models describe the SHR production in the vasculature, we instead used in the ODE analyses the effective SHR influx into the CEI, as measured at equilibrium ( p H c = p H = 137.5 a.u. h−1). (Note that in the spatial simulations those values vary in both space and time.) In CITATION, both the value used in the spatial simulations and the value used in the ODE analyses are given. Moreover, in CITATIONN we have indicated typical SHR influx into CEI and cortex (137.5 and 13.1 a.u. h−1, respectively). For the bifurcation diagrams and time series regarding the resetting (CITATIONL, 6M, CITATIONY, and S5Z), we focused on the first endodermal cell, which due to the increased protein turnover should be prevented to undergo another ACD. Again, we used the values as observed in the spatial simulations: (z = 0.07634; X = 5223 a.u.; p H c = p H = 332.5 a.u. h−1. To describe the SCRAxCxA mutant in CITATIONI–5L, we reduced the binding rate between SCR and RBR by 75% ( c T = c U = 0.1 ) . To describe the auxin treatment in CITATIONK and 5L, we immersed the root in a medium with auxin, creating an extra influx of auxin along the whole edge of the root of 5 a.u./μm. Auxin is calculated at a subcellular resolution, which can be noticed in CITATIONN. All other variables are calculated at a cellular resolution. We indicate the observed levels by color-coding each cell to represent its cellular concentration. The auxin (X), CYCD6;1 (C), and nuclear SHR (H n ) or SHR-SCR (A) concentration are displayed on a logarithmic scale, while (cytosolic) SHR (H c , H) and SHR-SCR-RBR (U) are displayed on a linear scale. Moreover, for SHR-SCR-RBR (U), the color-coding is proportional to the total amount per cell rather than its concentration (i.e., plotted is U⋅z), which is more meaningful. For straightforward comparison between the different treatments, the same color scale is used for both the wild-type and the mutants. This was done by fixing the minimum and maximum values for each of the displayed outputs to the values in the wild-type simulations that include auxin, except for SHR-SCR-RBR (U), where we fixed it to 20% of total RBR (0.2⋅r). Consequently, for the mutants and treatments the visual representation of the differences was truncated for values that were higher than the highest value in the wild-type or lower than the lowest value in the wild-type. Specifically, the minimum and maximum values in the color encoding were fixed to (in a.u.) X: [34.5,4.54 × 104]; H c : [0,647]; H: [0,42]; H n : [10−4,106]; A: [10−4,104]; C: [10−3,5 × 107]; S (model 1,2): [102,108]; S (model 3): [10−4,106]. Transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed essentially as described (CITATION) by transfecting 5 × 105 cells with 3 μg each of myc-CDK and HA-CYCD expression constructs. Transfected cells were cultured for 16 hr at RT, then harvested by centrifugation and lysed in extraction buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.8, 10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, 75 mM NaCl, 60 mM beta-glycerophosphate, 2 mM DTT, 0.2% Igepal CA 630, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, 1 mM benzamidine and protease inhibitors (Protease Inhibitor Coctail for plant cells, Sigma). Equal amounts of proteins were subjected to coimmunoprecipitations in a total volume of 100 μl extraction buffer supplemented with 150 mM NaCl, 0.2 mg ml−1 BSA and 1.5 μg of antibody against HA (HA.11 clone 16B12, Covance) or c-Myc epitopes (c-Myc clone 9E10, Covance). Immunocomplexes were captured on 10 μl of Protein G-Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare), washed three times in TBS buffer containing 5% glycerol and 0.1% Igepal CA 630, then eluted by boiling with 30 μl Laemmli sample buffer and subjected to SDS-PAGE. Following gel separation proteins were blotted onto Immobilon-P PVDF transfer membrane (Millipore), and stained with Ponceau S. For immunodetection of tagged proteins monoclonal anti-HA-peroxidase conjugate (clone 3F10, Roche), monoclonal anti-c-Myc (clone 9E10, Covance) and chicken anti-c-Myc (Molecular Probes) antibodies and the SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Thermo Scientific) were used. Col-0 and 35S::SCR-GFP seeds were germinated on 0.5x MSAR, 1% sucrose plates under long day conditions and roots of seven days old seedlings were collected. Samples were first grinded in liquid nitrogen then extracted with ice cold extraction buffer and clarified by centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C. Protein concentration was measured by Bradford assay (Biorad) and 150 μg of proteins were incubated with 20 μl GFP-Trap magnetic beads (Chromotek) in a final volume of 200 μl of extraction buffer supplemented with 150 mM NaCl, 0.2 mg ml−1 BSA for two hours at 4°C on a rotating wheel. Beads were washed three times with TBS buffer containing 5% glycerol and 0.1% Igepal CA 630 then proteins were eluted by boiling with 30 μl Laemmli sample buffer. Affinity purified fraction was analyzed on protein gel blots with an antibody specific for the Arabidopsis RBR protein and monoclonal anti-GFP (clone B34, Covance). Seeds were sterilized in 5% sodium hypochlorite, imbibed at 4°C in the dark in sterilized water containing 0.1% agarose for 2 days and germinated on plates containing 0.5x Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt mixture, 1% sucrose, and 0.5g/l 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid (MES) at pH 5.8, in 0.8% plant agar. Plates were incubated in a near vertical position at 22°C with a 16h light/8h dark cycle. Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) was used as wild-type and as the background in all transgenic and mutant lines (scr4-1 is WS). 40 and 36 roots of respectively cdkb1;1 cdkb1;2 mutant or Col-0 WT were used to count the presence of a CEI or CEID. The number of CEI and CEID were divided by the total number of ground tissue cells layers analyzed to obtain the CEI/CEID frequency. Frequencies obtained from plants grown on the same plate were used to calculate the average CEI/CEID frequency and for t test analysis. All plant materials used in this study and relevant references are given in CITATION. All expression constructs and entry clones used in this study and relevant references are given in CITATION. For synchronization seeds from each transgenic line tested were germinated in MS medium and transferred 5 dpg to phytagel-MS medium containing 2 mM HU (adapted from CITATION). To determine protein dynamics prior and during mitosis we measure mean pixel intensity of the whole cell with the same area using Leica LCSlite 2.0 (Leica Microsystems) software. For pSHR::SHR:YFP (n = 75 cells prior and 39 during mitosis), pSCR::SCR:YFP (n = 58 cells prior and 31 during mitosis) and pRBR::RBR:CFP (n = 25 cells prior and 12 during mitosis). For qualitative and quantitative comparison of protein degradation or stabilization, images were recorded with identical confocal settings in all cases. The average intensity prior mitosis was considered as 100% for each transgenic line and compared to the average of the cells during mitosis. Significant differences between measurements were identified with Student’s t test. Five-day-old seedlings grown in MS plates were transferred to liquid MS added with 50 μg/ml MG132 (Sigma and Biomol; dissolved to 50 mg/ml in DMSO) or with 0.1% DMSO alone as control, for 4 hr at 20°C in the light before observation and recording. Positions between primers upstream the starting codon: NUC6:-4935-4786 (−4,9); NUC5:-4503-4390: (−4,4); NUC4:-3995-3896: (−3,8); NUC3b:-2944-2812: (−2,9); NUC3a:-2320-2155, (−2,2); NUC2: −1282-1133, (−1,2). Fragment size ranges between 100 and 165 bp. A list of all primers used is given in CITATION. During our study it turned out to be essential to analyze regulatory circuit dynamics within the spatial context of the tissue. Given the multiple, non-linear feedback loops involved, we adopted a mathematical and computational approach to unravel the mechanisms that determine which cells undergo asymmetric stem cell divisions. To study the regulatory circuit, we developed a set of coupled ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which we considered capturing the dynamics of the important interacting components within each cell. Those ODEs were subsequently integrated within the tissue context. Mathematical analysis of the well-determined interactions that are presented in the main text shows that the feedbacks involved can create different steady states, which fall into two categories: either high levels of SHR-SCR are found, which is considered to trigger the ACDs, or low levels are found, leading to ordinary cell divisions within the cell files. Note that the modeling effort presented in this paper does not attempt to explain what causes the cell division to be asymmetric nor the repositioning of the cell plate during the CEI/CEID cell divisions, hence, the models do not explicitly describe the ACDs themselves. Rather, the modeling deals with how the cellular positioning of the ACD is determined and coordinated within a tissue, by flipping, at the correct positions and influenced by the root tissue layout, to the ACD-related cell state. We have studied three different models which, by analyzing them consecutively, have helped to reveal key issues and features of ACD determination. The first model presents the minimal requirements to produce a switch-like ACD behavior, capable of transforming the SHR gradient along the radial axis into a well-defined radial boundary. We begin by presenting model 1 and the related analyses. We will then treat the limitations presented by this model which have instigated the development of further extensions as well as further experiments, which will be discussed further below. A severe limitation for quantitative mathematical modeling of this regulatory network is the fact that detailed measurements regarding protein and complex concentrations and production and degradation rates are only marginally available. Moreover, for all processes described within the network, the dissociation constants are basically unknown, so our quantitative knowledge is limited to the overarching timescales of the observed dynamics and abundances of the proteins. We therefore opted to formulate all equations in the basic form of mass action kinetics, except when mass action kinetics would lead to unrestrained growth of mathematical terms. The first model is based on two important experimental observations: the complex formation between SCR and RBR (CITATION) and the observation that SCR is required to keep SHR nuclearly localized. In accordance to our experimental data, we assume that SCR unbound to RBR and nuclear SHR are required in conjunction for activating: (i) the ACDs, in the sense that the state in which both unbound SCR and nuclear SHR are high is the ACD-related cell state; (ii) enhanced SCR production; and (iii) CYCD6;1 production. The ODE Model. The ODE model is given by: (1a) cytosolic SHR: d H c d t = p H c − c H n H c S + c H c H n z − d H c H c (1b) nuclear SHR: d H n d t = c H n H c S z − c H c H n − d H n H n (1c) SCR: d S d t = p S 1 ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) + p S 2 − c T S ( r − R − T ) − d S S (1d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) − d C C (1e) RBR P : d R d t = c R C ( r − R − T ) − d R R (1f) SCR - RBR: d T d t = c T S ( r − R − T ) − d T T The above model describes protein or complex concentrations within a single cell. Experimentally we can clearly discriminate between SHR located in the cytosol and SHR located in the nucleus (see, e.g., CITATIONG and 6H). Importantly, SHR can only diffuse between cells through plasmodesmata when located in the cytosol, and only activate downstream targets when located in the nucleus. We therefore distinguish between cytosolic SHR (H c ) and nuclear SHR (H n ). Cytosolic SHR has a basic production rate ( p H c ) and can enter the nucleus, which depends on SCR, S ( c H n S H c ) , whereas nuclear SHR can leave the nucleus to become localized again inside the cytosol ( c H c H n ) . Similar results were found when SCR instead stabilizes SHR in the nucleus, reducing its exit rate (data not shown). Note however that such dynamics cannot be captured using a single mass-action term. To describe the concentration increase due to SHR entering the nucleus we have to take into account the relatively small volume of the nucleus compared to the cytosol. Hence a correction factor z is brought in, representing the percentage of the cell occupied by the nucleus ( ( c H n H c S ) / z ) . Likewise, SHR moving back into the cytosol again requires the correction factor z to capture the consequential increase in cytosolic SHR concentration ( c H c H n z ) . Finally, cytosolic SHR has a basic turnover/decay term ( d H c H c ) , and a similar turnover/decay term is used for all variables in our model (i.e., d H n H n , d S S , d C C , d R R , and d T T ). Regarding the turnover, please note that we explicitly assume degradation, but no dissociation of the SCR-RBR complex. The results do not change when dissociation is also considered, provided its rate is relatively low. SCR which is not bound to RBR is described by the variable S. In accordance with published observations, there is a small background production of SCR, S ( p S 2 ) , but its production can be geared up by the combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR ( ( p S 1 H n S ) / ( 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) ) . Note that we explicitly require both nuclear SHR and SCR for SCR activation, nuclear SHR alone not being sufficient. We use here a saturation term to keep the levels of H n and S bounded. Without such a saturation and using only mass-action terms, their levels would become, for many parameter settings, infinitely large. The saturation, however, does not play a role in the generation of bistability. Note that it is not always realized that the conventional Michaelis-Menten term, derived for the description of enzyme kinetics, makes the hidden assumption that complex formation reduces the effective concentration of only one of the variables, while not affecting the other (i.e. it assumes that one variable is at a much lower concentration than the other, which is typically the enzyme of a reaction with substrate in excess). In many situations, especially non-enzyme contexts, this is clearly an invalid assumption. CITATION therefore developed an improved Michaelis-Menten term, employed here, based upon the so-called Total Quasi Steady State assumption, which better captures the dynamics when there is no a priori reason to assume a large concentration difference. SCR can bind to RBR, to form SCR-RBR, T. We here take the simplifying view that the total concentration of RBR per cell remains constant (given by the parameter r), but that only the non-phosphorylated form can bind to SCR. The total amount of RBR that is available to bind is given by total RBR minus RBRP, R, and RBR within the SCR-RBR complex, T. Taking this into account, the total amount of RBR available to bind equals ( r − R − T ) , and the rate by which SCR binds to RBR is therefore given by c T S ( r − R − T ) . The combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR is able to activate the production of CYCD6;1, C. For this activation we use a similar response as used for the SCR activation ( ( p C H n S ) / ( 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) ) . Finally, CYCD6;1, in its turn, causes phosphorylation of non-phosphorylated RBR ( c R C ( r − R − T ) ) . Note that this equation for RBRP implicitly assumes that de novo RBR production gives rise to non-phosphorylated RBR only, whereas CYCD6;1 is essentially required for its phosphorylation. Spatial Embedding of the ODE Model. Within the spatial model, each individual cell contains the same regulatory network, whereas the spatial coupling between cells takes place through cytosolic SHR, H c , which is able to diffuse between cells. In the model we use concentrations rather than total protein content of cells, given that concentration differences, and not total protein amount itself, drives the fluxes between the cells. Note that because the cells can have very different sizes, the concentration can be the same, whereas the total protein content can be quite different. Root Layout. As realistic root layouts for our simulations, we have been using both digitized microscopy images of the root and more caricature-like layouts, which capture all essential elements of the root tip. Because, for the questions asked in this specific study, the real and caricature layout do not present different outcomes or insights, we here only show the results for the caricature layout, which allows us to show the results in a clearer fashion. For the simulations we are using a two-dimensional (2D) grid, representing a cross-section through the root, in which the bilateral symmetry of the root across the xylem axis is captured. For the grid we use a spatial resolution of 0.5 μm. CITATIONA and S3C shows the detailed layout of the root used in the simulations, with all the different cell types indicated. It is partly based on earlier studies, in which we used a rectangular layout (CITATION; CITATION). For the unraveling of the organization within the stem cell niche, however, it turned out to be essential to take the specific structure within the stem cell niche into account. SHR Transport. The level of cytosolic SHR as determined by the regulatory network and intercellular diffusion is captured by a single concentration value for each cell. We here describe the spread of SHR through the cells by means of plasmodesmata as a diffusive process. The diffusion of SHR between cells is therefore calculated in the following way. First, we assumed that the diffusion predominantly takes place through plasmodesmata, and that the cell wall therefore does not have to be taken into account. We then used the total shared boundary length between cells (ignoring the cell wall) and the distance between the centroids of the cells to calculate the effective diffusive flux between them: J H → ( i → j ) = D H L ( i , j ) H c ( i ) − H c ( j ) | i ¯ → − j ¯ → | , where J H → ( i → j ) is the flux from cell i to cell j; D H is the diffusion rate of SHR; L ( i , j ) is the shared boundary length between i and j; H c ( i ) , H c ( j ) are the cytosolic SHR concentrations in both cells, and i ¯ → , j ¯ → vectors to the centroid of both cells. Note that the protein movement is here described as a purely diffusive process, hence dependent on the distance between the cell centers and the length of shared cell wall between the cells. If alternatively passage through the plasmodesmata would be the only factor limiting SHR spread, it should instead be described as a transport process dependent on the length of shared cell wall between the cells, not on the distance between the cells. In reality, the flux will be limited by a mixture of both cytosolic diffusion and transport through the plasmodesmata. Here, however, we have not explored these details further. The change in concentration is given by: ∂ H c ( i ) ∂ t = − ∑ k J H → ( i → k ) V ( i ) , where V ( i ) is the total area of cell i, and k sums over all direct neighbors of the cell. Within the root tip there is quite a large variation in cell size, whereas the size of the nucleus typically only marginally differs between cells. The parameter z, which stands for the fraction of the cell occupied by the nucleus, is therefore taken into account as a cell-specific property: z ( i ) = V n / V ( i ) , where V n is the typical nuclear area, and V ( i ) the total cell area of cell i. In the spatial model we further assume that only vascular and pericycle cells produce SHR (i.e., for all other cell types p H c = 0 ), and that inversely all but the vascular and pericycle cells have a small background production of SCR (i.e., for vascular and pericycle cells, p S 2 = 0 ). The parameter values used are shown in CITATION. They were chosen to represent realistic dynamics and timescales. The equations were solved by using the Runge-Kutta 4th order method, with Δ t = 10 − 3 s. Model 1 Presents Switch-like ACD Behavior. While our final results strongly emphasize the importance of the spatial integration of the system, we here present further analysis on the ODEs that describe the dynamics at the single cell level, as this allows us to better dissect the robustness of the models and to make apparent what arises due to cellular interactions and tissue context. We first asked the question what would be the equilibrium SCR and nuclear SHR levels in the ODE version of model 1 (CITATION), for different levels of production cq. influx of SHR. We therefore created a bifurcation diagram by varying p H c and observing the equilibria and their stability. CITATIONH depicts the equilibria in terms of SCR levels unbound to RBR, S. It shows that bistability can be found over a very wide range of SHR influx levels. One stable steady state presents very high H n and S levels, corresponding to the ACD cell state, while the other stable steady state presents low H n and S levels, corresponding to the default cell behavior. The stable steady states are separated by an unstable saddle point, which presents a threshold that needs to be crossed to switch from one state to the other. For low values of SHR influx there is only one stable state, illustrating that sufficient SHR influx is needed to gain the potential of the ACD cell state, while very high SHR influx (more than 25 times higher than the SHR influx into CEI/CEID/endodermal cells at our default parameter settings) causes the low equilibrium to disappear, leading to the flip to the ACD cell state. Dissecting the Bistability: The Importance of a Double Feedback Loop. To dissect what feedbacks are required for triggering the ACD behavior, and to analyze their individual contributions as well as their combined actions, it is very helpful to graphically capture the cause of the bistability. For model 1 this is possible by combining the methods of quasi-steady-state (QSS) analysis and nullcline analysis. QSS analysis allows us to reduce the number of independent variables within a system. It is typically done when certain variables are varying on a much faster timescale relative to the others, but it can also be applied for a more general analysis on the number of equilibria within a system. Importantly, a QSS analysis never changes the number of equilibria in a system, and can therefore be straightforwardly applied to determine those. (The stability of those equilibria can change though, in the sense that equilibria that are found to be stable after the QSS reduction of the number of variables could in fact be unstable in the original model.) QSS analysis allows the reduction of model 1 to two independent variables, nuclear SHR, H n , and SCR not bound to RBR, S: (2a) cytosolic SHR: H c = p H c + c H c H n z c H n S + d H c (2b) CYCD 6 ; 1 : C = p C d C ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) (2c) RBR P : R = r c R d T C c R d T C + d R c T S − d R d T (2d) SCR - RBR: T = r d R c T S c R d T C + d R c T S − d R d T (2e) nuclear SHR: d H n d t = c H n H c S z − c H c H n − d H n H n (2f) SCR: d S d t = p S 1 H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S + p S 2 − c T S ( r − R − T ) − d S S Having reduced the system to two independent variables enables two-dimensional phase-plane analysis, which eases graphical representation. In CITATIONI and CITATIONE, we show the phase-plane of nuclear SHR, H n , against SCR unbound to RBR, S, both on a logarithmic scale, as well as the nullclines and vector field for the above model, CITATION. The intersections of the nullclines indicate the equilibria of the system. As the lines cross thrice, this indicates three equilibria. Two of them are stable, separated by an unstable equilibrium, a saddle, i.e., it illustrates the bistability. To dissect to which extent the bistability is either due to the SCR transcription feedback loop (i.e., due to the fact that SCR unbound to RBR in the presence of nuclear SHR is activating SCR transcription) or due to the CYCD6-mediated feedback loop (i.e., due to the fact that SCR unbound to RBR and nuclear SHR activate CYCD6;1, which effectively leads to RBR phosphorylation, and hence more SCR unbound to RBR), we generated nullclines for the cases where one or both of the feedback loops are removed (which can be done by setting p S1 and/or p c to zero). Although the shape of nullclines are modified, the qualitative behavior of bistability is preserved when one of the feedbacks is removed (CITATIONJ, 3K, CITATIONF, and S2G). However, if both are turned off, the system fails to present bistability for any possible parameter setting (CITATIONL and CITATIONH). We therefore conclude that it is the combined (and redundant) action of two feedback loops which determines the huge potential for bistability underlying the behavior of ACD specification. Within the spatial simulations, however, the SHR influx-dependent bistability leads to two possible scenarios. Because SHR production is limited to the vasculature while degraded everywhere, a radial gradient in SHR levels is formed. One possibility is that the highest SHR levels, found close to the vasculature, are not sufficient to flip to the ACD state. In that case SHR keeps its graded radial distribution. Alternatively, the positive feedback loops are sufficiently strong (e.g., because the value of p c is higher) that the cells close to the vasculature reach SHR levels that are above the fold bifurcation, and hence enter the ACD cell state. In the latter case the nuclearization of SHR in the endodermis due to the high SHR-SCR levels prevents further spread of cytosolic SHR, reducing the SHR levels beyond the endodermis to close to zero. Consequently, the spatial simulations present a very strong radial pattern, in which only a single cell file differentiates, even when the initial SHR gradient could have triggered the ACD cell state in cell files further outward. Importantly, the effect that the activation of the ACD has on the SHR gradient itself causes the sharp, reliable, single-cell-layer-wide response, with strongly deviating expression levels for a whole range of proteins, to an initially more shallow and possibly very variable radial gradient. The importance of the response to a morphogen gradient on the gradient itself has been elucidated before for animal systems (CITATION). In short, while the first model cannot explain why ACDs are limited to specific cells rather than the whole endodermal cell file, it has allowed us to link cellular switch-like behavior to robust radial patterning within the tissue. Model 1, or the “double positive-feedback model” (1) has the minimal requirements to produce the switch-like ACD behavior; (2) shows how the SHR gradient along the radial axis can be transformed in a radial switch; and (3) allows us to understand through nullcline analysis the role of the two positive feedback loops. After establishing that the experimentally derived model could explain the radial, but not the longitudinal patterning, we explored whether it would be theoretically possible that the auxin gradient discovered previously (CITATION) could supply the required longitudinal cue. We required that an auxin-dependent link in the regulatory network should not only confine the ACD cell state to the correct cells, but should also capture all the different dynamics observed in wild-type and mutants and during interferences. We found that when the effect of auxin was brought into the model through an auxin-dependent modification of the CYCD6;1 activation rate, all these requirements were met, while this was not straightforwardly the case for other choices, such as auxin inhibiting the RBR phosphorylation by CYCD6;1 or auxin inhibiting the formation of the SCR-RBR complex. This generated a hypothesis of auxin-augmented CYCD6;1 activation, which was confirmed experimentally. In the second model we therefore introduce auxin into the network (model 2, aka the “auxin-regulated double positive-feedback model”), through an auxin-dependent activation of CYCD6;1 by modifying CITATION, (3) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C ( X h c X h + X h ) ( H n S 1 + ( H n + S ) / c S ) − d C C , where X represents the average auxin concentration within the cell. The parameter c X indicates the auxin concentration at which the auxin-mediated CYCD6;1 activation is half-maximal, and h is the so-called Hill-coefficient, indicating the steepness of the sigmoidal relationship. We have used, in contrast to all other terms, a sigmoidal Hill function, in order to describe a relatively steep dependency of CYCD6;1 activation on auxin. This steep dependency was derived from the fact that the AxCxA mutant and/or auxin treatment only presents a limited expansion of the zone in which ACDs are observed, but is not required nor relevant for the bistability presented by the model (see section on high robustness below). The steepness of the Hill coefficient, h = 3, has been based upon the experimental observations on the SCR AxCxA mutant and the auxin treatments: in simulations with a non-sigmoidal dependency we observed more dramatically expanded ACDs in the SCRAxCxA background and/or when the root was treated with auxin. Please note, however, that instead of a sigmoidal dependency on auxin, these observations could alternatively be caused by other, non-linear saturations within the cell-autonomous network itself (data not shown). Spatial Implementation of Auxin Transport. To model the auxin flow in the spatial model, each cell consists of multiple grid points, such that auxin concentrations may vary within cells. The cell wall is described as a separate entity, one grid point (0.5 μm) wide. Auxin flow through a cell requires influx permeability, bringing auxin into the cell across the membrane, diffusion within the cell, and efflux permeability, allowing auxin to cross the membrane and enter the cell wall space. Once in the cell wall space, auxin can freely diffuse until it reaches a membrane. In the basic model, influx is given by a constant permeability rate, P i n , in units of μ m / s . Thus, we do not take for example any differential AUX1 expression levels into account, but assume influx to be homogeneous for all cells and along all their membrane. In contrast, auxin efflux permeability is assigned a strong ( P e S P I N ) , weak ( P e W P I N ) , or background ( P e b g ) value, depending on the level of PIN export facilitators at the membrane. The choice of level and orientation of the PINs was determined by visual inspection of images showing the location and intensity of fluorescent PIN fusion proteins (see CITATION). Background efflux permeability P e b g is fixed at 5% of the permeability resulting from high intensity PIN expression. All parameters are shown in CITATION. Diffusion of auxin takes place within cells and cell walls and is given by J X → = − D X ∇ → X , where D corresponds to the diffusion rate, given in units of μ m 2 / s (note that in contrast permeability rates carry the unit of μ m / s ), and X corresponds to the auxin concentration, given in arbitrary units [a.u.]. In the cell wall, auxin diffusion is slower, modeled by a reduction factor k: J X → = − D X / k ∇ → X . Diffusion is not permitted across cell membranes (i.e., no flux boundary conditions). The flux due to auxin permeability across a membrane can be written as (4) J X → = { − ( P e S P I N n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if PINs are expressed strongly , − ( P e W P I N n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if PINs are expressed weakly , − ( P e b g n ˆ ) X i n + ( P i n n ˆ ) X o u t if only background efflux takes place , where n ˆ is the inward directed unit vector, perpendicular to the membrane; X i n represents the auxin concentration in the cytosol at the grid point bordering the cell membrane; and X o u t represents the auxin concentration in the cell wall grid point immediately adjacent to the cell membrane. Simulations of auxin dynamics are performed by concurrently solving for the diffusion, permeability and decay of auxin, using an Alternating Direction Implicit (ADI) method (CITATION). The boundary conditions at the shootward end of the simulated root segment, which guarantee a constant influx of auxin into the root, are implemented exactly as described previously (CITATION). PIN Localization. An important aspect of the auxin transport model is the intracellular localization of the different PIN proteins, which drive the directed auxin transport through the cells. To be able to localize within the model specific PINs rootward, shootward or laterally, requires defining, for each cell, which part of its membrane is orientated in those different directions. For rectangular cells this is a trivial task, but in the more complex layout this required a different strategy. We have developed an algorithm that compartmentalizes each cell into four different zones, which are, relative to the centroid of the cell, oriented upward, downward, inward, or outward. CITATIONB and S3D shows for each cell those different zonations in green, purple, cyan, and red, respectively. When, for a specific cell type, we want to position PINs along a certain direction, we make use of all membrane positions within that zone (and belonging to cells of the required cell type; CITATIONA and S3C), and position within the model the PIN proteins at those grid points. The orientations used for PIN localization are indicated in CITATION. Auxin Confines ACDs to CEI/CEID. In the spatial simulations of model 2 the ACDs are confined to the CEI/CEID (see CITATIONO and 4P). In the analysis of model 1 we pointed out that both feedback loops act redundantly to generate the required bistability. In contrast, model 2 shows that each feedback loop is essential for the correct spatial patterning, with the SCR-transcription feedback loop required for reaching high SCR levels and making the two possible states very distinct, while the feedback loop through CYCD6;1 is essential for the auxin-mediated augmentation, required for the longitudinal precision of the switch. The next question, however, is the robustness of this bistability-generating network, given the high level of uncertainty in the parameter values, and whether the network, when embedded within the spatial context of the root, is able to preserve the correct spatial pattern, with only the CEI/CEID cells entering the ACD cell state, when parameter values are diverging from the default ones. High Robustness of Circuit due to Feedback Loops. We first checked for the default set of parameter values the range over which bistability can be observed when varying parameters one at a time (see CITATION). This revealed that for all parameters the range over which bistability is yielded is huge. Such a parameter sweep, however, does not answer the question if this robustness stems from the particular choice of our default combination of parameters. We therefore continued with a more thorough study on the robustness of the regulatory circuit (CITATION and CITATION). Because the equations were formulated and the parameters defined to capture specific biological meanings, they are not necessarily independent from one another. Moreover, when screening for the parameter range for which specifically the bistable behavior can be observed, it is best to reduce the number of free parameters. We thus first nondimensionalized model 2: (5a) cytosolic SHR : d H c ′ d τ = i − b S ′ H c ′ + b d H n ′ − H c ′ (5b) nuclear SHR : d H n ′ d τ = H c ′ S ′ − d H n ′ − e H n ′ (5c) SCR : d S ′ d τ = f H n ′ S ′ 1 + ( H n ′ + S ′ ) / g + 1 − S ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − v S ′ (5d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C ′ d τ = j H n ′ S ′ 1 + ( H n ′ + S ′ ) / g − k C ′ (5e) RBR P : d R ′ d τ = C ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − m R ′ (5f) SCR - RBR : d T ′ d τ = p S ′ ( w − R ′ − T ′ ) − q T ′ Where H c ′ = α H c , H n ′ = β H n , S ′ = β S , C ′ = δ C , R ′ = ε R , T ′ = ε T , τ = η t ; the variable rescalings are given by α = c H n / ( d H c z ) , β = d H c / p S 2 , δ = c R / d H C , ε = c T / d h c , and η = d h c ; and the parameter rescalings are given by i = p H c c H n / ( z d H c 2 ) , b = c H n p S 2 / d H c 2 , d = c H c / d H c , e = d H n / d H c , f = p S 1 p S 2 / d H c 2 , g = d H c c S / p S 2 , w = r c T / d H c , v = d S / d H c , j = p C c R p S 2 2 X h / ( d H c 4 ( c X h + X h ) ) , k = d C / d H c , m = d R / d H c , p = c T p S 2 / d H c 2 , and q = d T / d H c . The previously derived QSS reduction of the model allowed us to very directly and rapidly verify for a broad range of different parameter settings if the model presents three equilibria and thus bistable behavior. To test whether the bistability is indeed a structural property of the model, we screened for the bistability while concurrently varying the values of all the nondimensionalized parameters given above. This analysis has been performed by randomly varying each parameter value over orders of magnitude around the default value (we present the results for 10-, 100-, 10000-, 106- and 109-fold variations). For the random value of each parameter we have used a log uniform distribution: c = 10 ( log 10 ( c 0 ) − log 10 ( f ) / 2 + p ( c , f ) ) , where c is the random value of the parameter; c 0 the default value of the parameter; f the fold variation; and p ( c , f ) = ( H ( c ) − H ( c − log 10 ( f ) ) / log 10 ( f ) ) the probability density function, in which H is the Heaviside step function. For example, in the case of a 10,000-fold random variation around the value c 0 = 1, the values of parameter c will lie between 0.01 and 100, and the probability of the parameter to be between 0.01 and 0.1 will be as large as the probability for it to lie between 0.1 and 1, between 1 and 10, or between 10 and 100. We first concurrently varied all parameters around default values that were calculated from the parameter values given in CITATION, using the parameter rescaling formulas shown above, for two different levels of auxin, X = 1000 and X = 10,000. The probability of bistability to appear in the system is shown in CITATION, based upon 10,000 random drawings for each fold-variation and default parameter setting. (Note, that due to the two feedback loops there also exists the possibility of having five equilibria, three of which being stable. This was typically observed in around 0.1% of the random drawings, and were counted to present the bistability as well.) We observe that the simplified model presents a very high level of robustness in behavior. For example, even with a billion-fold variation in all parameters, 26% of the simulations still present qualitatively similar behavior. There is also an “auxin” effect: For X = 10,000, the probability of finding bistability is lower when fold-variations are not as high as for X = 1000. This is due to the fact that for the default parameters at high levels of auxin the system is close to the bifurcation which can bring the cell to the ACD-related state. However, when a much larger parameter range is sampled, the probabilities to find bistability become much more comparable again, illustrating that the bistability is an overarching property of the model. To check the importance of the specific choice of the default parameters in this analysis, we repeated the screening for bistability for the case where all the default values around which the parameters are varied in CITATION are set to unit value (one). Note that this could be considered the worst-case scenario, given that it corresponds to almost no influx of SHR (i = 1), very low total amounts of RBR that could bind to SCR (w = 1), and the amplification loops being almost always saturated (g = 1). But even for these very unfavorable parameter settings, adding sufficiently high levels of noise causes appearance of bistability in 5.8% of the cases. Even more striking, when we increased for those three parameters their default value to 1,000, while keeping all other parameters at a value of 1, the incidence rate of bistability turned out to be even higher than around the parameter values as used throughout the rest of the paper. We therefore conclude that one of the key behaviors of the model is presenting bistability over a wide parameter range. Finally we checked if robustness of the bistable switch indeed corresponds to robustness of the spatial patterning, by determining the range over which qualitatively the same pattern (i.e., only QC and CEI/CEID presenting the ACD cell state) can be observed in spatial simulations when each parameter value is varied individually while keeping all others at their default value (see the last column in CITATION). To perform the simulations within reasonable computational time, simulations were started at the final configuration of the previous parameter setting, as it was unfeasible to do massive screenings of fully randomized parameters. These simulations revealed that for all parameters the range over which the correct patterning can be observed is again very large. In short, model 2, or the “auxin-regulated double positive-feedback model” (1) has the minimal requirements to confine the ACD behavior to a single cell at a specific location; (2) shows that the molecular network integrates an interplay between the radial SHR gradient and the longitudinal auxin gradient; (3) shows that the switching behavior is very general and robust, causing the right cells to enter the ACD cell state over a wide parameter range. Spatial Simulations of Model 2 Show that, Unlike Model 1, SHR Does Not Remain Confined to the Endodermis. While, compared to model 1, model 2 clearly presents an improvement in capturing the regulation of the ACDs, it nevertheless fails to explain the confinement of SHR to the endodermis. This is because in model 2 only the cells which enter the ACD state can block the SHR throughput from the vasculature to the external cell files. It therefore allows SHR to move from the endodermal cells into the cortex, because those endodermal cells are not in the ACD state. Not only this is unlike what is observed experimentally, but it also reduces the robustness of the dynamics regarding the radial aspect of the patterning. In model 2, SHR ends up in the cortex and epidermis, because RBR binding to SCR suppresses the interaction of SCR with SHR, thereby preventing the nuclear localization of SHR. The experimental observation that SHR remains confined to the endodermis suggested to us that this assumption was incorrect and that RBR binding to SCR does not prevent SCR to interact with SHR. This was further strengthened by the observation that src mutants do not present such a nuclear localization of SHR in the endodermis. So it rather seemed to be the case that RBR prevents SHR-SCR to activate downstream targets. In short, the modeling suggested that a ternary complex of SHR-SCR-RBR can be formed, for which we were later able to gather experimental evidence. We therefore extended model 2 to explicitly take into account not only the SCR-RBR complex, but also the SHR-SCR and SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex. CITATIONA shows the regulatory network of model 3. While in the previous models the combined action of SCR and nuclear SHR was introduced without this combined action necessarily having to be based on complex formation, we here take an explicit formation of a SHR-SCR complex into account (compare CITATIONA to CITATIONL). SCR continues to influence the nuclear localization of SHR, but now by explicitly forming a complex that is located in the nucleus, instead of promoting the entry rate of SHR from the cytosol into the nucleus. The equations are as follows: (6a) SHR : d H d t = p H − c A S H − c U 2 T H − d H H (6b) SCR : d S d t = p S 1 A + p S 2 − c A S H − c T S ( r − R − T − z U ) − d S S (6c) SHR - SCR : d A d t = c A S H z − d A A − c U A ( r − R − T − z U ) (6d) CYCD 6 ; 1 : d C d t = p C X h c X h + X h A − d C C (6e) RBR P : d R d t = c R C ( r − R − T − z U ) − d R R (6f) SCR - RBR : d T d t = c T S ( r − R − T − z U ) − d T T − c U 2 T H + d U z U (6g) SHR - SCR - RBR : d U d t = c U A ( r − R − T − z U ) + c U 2 T H z − d U U Cytosolic, unbound SHR, H, has a basic production rate (p H ) and can bind to either SCR, S ( c A S H ) , or to the SCR-RBR complex, T ( c U 2 T H ) . This leads to the formation of the SHR-SCR complex, A, and the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U, respectively. Again we describe all complex formations as irreversible processes, to prevent the addition of many more parameters that have not yet been experimentally established, but we have assured ourselves that the temporal and spatial dynamics do not change when we take all the different possibilities of the complexes dissociating into account as well, as long as the kinetic rates are sufficiently balanced toward association (data not shown). All variables have again a basic turnover/decay (given by d H H , d A A , d S S , d C C , d R R , d T T , and d U U ). The d S term captures the SCR degradation, considered to be as large as d T , the degradation of SCR-RBR. The parameter d R is capturing both degradation and dephosphorylation of RBRP. Regarding the turnover/decay terms, we made the following three choices. First, given that large fluctuations in total RBR have not been experimentally observed, we opted for describing RBR as a constant pool (the regulation of which is kept out of the scope of this paper) in order not to further expand the number of variables in the model, preventing introduction of more parameters that would capture processes currently unclear and irrelevant for the dynamics of and insights from the model study. Specifically, we wanted to leave open whether loss of phosphorylated RBR occurs due to degradation or dephosphorylation currently unknown. By capturing RBR as a constant pool, both scenarios lead to exactly the same equations within the framework presented here. Second, we explicitly assume the complex dissociation sequence SHR-SCR-RBR→SCR-RBR→RBR, again to limit the number of terms in the model and the associated parameter space. Thus, d U describes the transition from SHR-SCR-RBR to SCR-RBR, due to the degradation of SHR, considered to be as large as d H . Third, following our policy of leaving out all the dissociation terms forced us into having to make one non-trivial decision. Decay of SCR when it is bound within the ternary SHR-SCR-RBR complex implies dissociation of SHR and RBR. Hence, if we would include this decay, we would introduce one dissociation term into the model, which we felt to be confusing. Alternatively, we could simply leave out this decay term. We opted for the latter, given that it prevents the addition of yet three more terms to the model and only marginally influences the dynamics, as we have tested in a version which includes every single dissociation term. There is again a small background production of SCR, S ( p S 2 ) , but its production can be geared up by the SHR-SCR complex, A ( p S 1 A ) . Because we now explicitly describe the formation of the complex underlying downstream activation, there is no need anymore to introduce a saturation in those terms. SCR can bind to RBR, to form SCR-RBR, T. Assuming that the total amount of RBR per cell remains constant (given by the parameter r), but that only the non-phosphorylated form can bind to SCR, the total amount of RBR that is available to bind is given by total RBR, minus the amount of RBRP, R, as well as all RBR already in a complex (i.e., SCR-RBR, T, and SHR-SCR-RBR, U). Taking this into account, the total amount of RBR available to bind equals ( r − R − T − U ) , and the rate by which SCR binds to RBR is therefore given by c T S ( r − R − T − U ) . Regarding the SHR-SCR complex, A, we take the view that although SCR is already bound to SHR, it can still bind to RBR as well, to form the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U ( c U A ( r − R − T − U ) ) . The combined action of the SHR-SCR complex, A (but not the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex, U) is able to activate the production of CYCD6;1, C ( p c X h / ( c X h + X h ) A ) . Finally, CYCD6;1, in its turn, causes phosphorylation of non-phosphorylated RBR ( c R C ( r − R − T − U ) ) . Note that this equation for RBRP implicitly assumes that de novo RBR production gives rise to non-phosphorylated RBR only, while CYCD6;1 is essentially required for its phosphorylation. Because both the SHR-SCR complex, A, and the ternary complex, U, are nuclearly localized, the correction term z is also required for the formation of the ternary complex from SHR and SCR-RBR. For the binding of RBR to SHR-SCR no such correction factor is needed because both SHR-SCR and the ternary complex are nuclearly localized. Also in the calculation of the total amount of RBR that is available to bind, it has to be taken into account that the ternary complex is only nuclearly localized and therefore presents a smaller contribution to the reduction of available RBR. Hence, the total amount of RBR available to bind now equals ( r − R − T − z U ) . Moreover, to capture the degradation SHR-SCR-RBR→SCR-RBR, which implies a nuclear to cellular transition, the correction factor z is also required. Moreover, we assumed that binding of SHR to SCR does not depend on whether SCR is already bound to RBR ( c A = c U 2 ) , and likewise, that binding of RBR to SCR does not depend on whether SCR is already bound to SHR ( c T = c U ) . A strict parameter mapping from model 2 to model 3 is missing, given that we introduced the SHR-SCR complex and the SHR-SCR-RBR ternary complex. Nevertheless, most parameters have the same meaning and units as in model 2, and we therefore mainly used the same values, to ensure that the comparison between the models is biologically meaningful. Moreover, we took the reasonable choices that c A = c H n and d A = d H n . However, the parameters p C and p S 1 changed units, due to the fact that the previous model did not describe the SHR-SCR complex explicitly, hence for those parameters a direct mapping was not possible. To enable model comparisons in a fair manner, the parameters p C and p S 1 , as well as the value of p S 2 , were chosen, such that the bifurcation points in model 1 and 2, as shown in CITATIONH and CITATIONM, and in model 3, as shown in CITATIONN and S4O, are positioned at comparable values, within a 25% variation range. For the same reason we also modified the value of c R . (Note that we did not fine-tune the parameters to carefully match the bifurcation points.) Finally, to obtain comparable spatial patterns, we also modified the value of p H , compared to the value of p H c used previously. The Importance of the Ternary Complex: SHR Confinement. Model 3 again presents two clearly distinct cell states, with only the QC and CEI/CEID cells entering the ACD cell state. The third model presents in a parsimonious way our current understanding of the regulatory circuit underlying ACDs. It is, however, too intricate to allow for nullcline analysis, as presented in CITATIONI–3L and CITATIONE–S2H, or large-scale parameter screening, as presented in CITATION. Nevertheless, we assured ourselves that when the further extensions were included, the model still presented robust radial and lateral specification of the ACD cell state. We did so by first determining again, through bifurcation analysis, for each individual parameter the range over which bistability can be observed when that parameter is varied while keeping all others at their default values. The ranges are given in the one but last column in CITATION. Next, we determined again, through spatial computer simulations, the parameter range for which we do not observe any perturbation in the spatial pattern, once this is established for the default parameter setting (i.e., when starting with the pattern as shown in CITATIONC–5G and CITATIONI–S4M). The obtained parameter ranges are given in the last column of CITATION. Together, it shows that both the bistability and the spatial pattern formation are again a robust feature of the model. Moreover, the model presents SHR confinement in the endodermis, without flipping to the ACD cell state, through the formation of the ternary complex. The robustness of the spatial patterning in the radial direction is caused by the “capturing” the SHR in the endodermal layer, which prevents other cell files to gain the potential to reach high SHR-SCR levels. The robustness in the transversal direction is due to the fact that the switch to the ACD state requires sufficiently high auxin levels, right in the region where the auxin gradient is steepest. In short, model 3, or the “full model” (1) can explain both ACD localization and SHR restriction and (2) is highly robust. Until now we have been showing that the bistability is advantageous for conferring precision and robustness, but concurrently it presents the problem of how to turn the ACD-state off during tissue dynamics. We therefore finalize by explaining the importance of a “reset” during cell division, how the reset-mechanism functions within model 3, for which we again have gained experimental evidence. While high auxin levels are able to sufficiently augment the CYCD6;1 feedback loop to bring the CEI cell into the ACD-related or “on” state, it is not inversely true that a low auxin level can bring the cell back into the “off” state (CITATIONM and CITATIONF). We explored whether increased protein degradation during the cell cycle progression could cause the cell to switch off. To do so, we studied in the third, full model the effect of increased protein degradation, taking two possible scenarios into account. The first possibility that we explored is an equally increasing breakdown of SHR, SCR, RBR and all the complexes that they form. Such a scenario can be captured by multiplying all decay terms in CITATION with a factor d which describes the increased protein degradation level (i.e., d H becomes d × d H , d S becomes d × d S , etc, for all d H , d S , d A , d C , d R , d T , d U ). When d = 1, we capture the default situation, while d > 1 describes increased protein degradation levels (and d < 1 reduced degradation levels). The second scenario is that increased protein degradation does not act on complexes, but is restricted to the free proteins. In this scenario, the factor d would only affect d H , d S , d C , and d R . Now to test whether this could “reset” the CEID, we analyzed the dynamics of that cell within the full ODE model, using, by probing the spatial model at steady state, its correct auxin level (X = 5223 a.u.); SHR influx (pH = 332.5a.u./h); and relative size of the nucleus (z = 0.07634). CITATIONL shows a bifurcation diagram for the equilibrium level of SHR-SCR, A, as a function of the increased level of protein degradation for the first scenario, in which all protein degradation can become elevated. It can be seen that when d = 1, i.e., when there is no elevated protein degradation, there are three equilibria, two of which are stable. This implies that the neighboring shootward cell of the CEI within the endodermal cell file could indeed be either in the “on” state or in the “off” state, but having inherited its state from the CEI would be expected to be in the “on” state. If, however, the ACD takes place concurrently with increased protein degradation, the picture becomes different: when d > 2.426, the “on” equilibrium disappears through a fold bifurcation, and the dynamics are expected to move to the “off” equilibrium. In short, a 2.5 times higher protein degradation rate is sufficient to cause the system to switch off. CITATIONX presents the second scenario, in which complexes are not available for accelerated degradation. Even though in this scenario the complexes themselves do not undergo increased breakdown, again the “on” equilibrium disappears at higher degradation levels, but now requiring values of d > 5.401, more than twice as high as in the first scenario. Thus, the rapid breakdown of their substrates can cause a sufficient reduction in complex formation to bring the cell into the “off” state. We do not modify in these simulations the total amount of RBR, which effectively implies a higher turnover during this phase of the cell cycle. A phase of accelerated protein degradation during the cell cycle will inevitably be of a limited duration. While in CITATIONL and CITATIONY we focused on the disappearance of the “on” state, this does not automatically guarantee that the cell will end up in the “off” state. When the time span of the accelerated protein degradation is too short, the dynamics could relapse if during this phase it has not passed the separatrix formed by the stable manifold of the saddle point which separates the basins of attraction of the two stable equilibria. CITATIONZ shows the time dynamics for both a too short (15 min, dashed lines) and sufficiently long (1 hr 30 min, continuous lines) time span of accelerated protein degradation (d = 10), after which protein degradation returns to the default level (d = 1), depicted for both scenarios. The dynamics starts from the “on” state when, at time = 0 hr accelerated protein degradation is initiated. If the time span is too short, a relapse to the “on” state can be observed, while a sufficiently long time span causes the dynamics to settle in the “off” state. Note that in the first scenario the initial drop is faster, and hence the time span required is shorter. Also note the undershoot that can be observed for the second scenario. This is due to the fact that increased nondiscriminatory protein degradation has not only a negative, but also a positive effect on SHR-SCR levels because increased complex breakdown reduces buffering through the ternary complex. In the second scenario, however, this positive effect is lacking. The importance of the right balance between the level of accelerated protein degradation and the time interval during which accelerated degradation takes place, is further illustrated in CITATIONM, for the first scenario. It shows that for a four-fold increase in protein degradation a time window of 40 min is not sufficient for turning the cell “off’”, while a 10-fold increase in protein degradation turns the cell off, even when the time window is as short as 40 min. If the timescale were instead two hours, also a four-fold increase in protein degradation suffices to change the cell state. Also note that the fast degradation rates can trigger transient oscillatory dynamics. In the simulations of model 1, we used p C = 1 for CITATIONN, 3P, and 3R, p C = 50 for CITATIONO, 3Q, and 3S, and p C = 0 a.u.−1h−1 for CITATIONH. All other parameter values used are as given in CITATION. The relative nucleus size z and auxin concentration X used for the ODE analyses are based upon the size of the CEI in the spatial simulations (z = 0.0185787) and its equilibrium auxin level (X = 16054.8 a.u.). While p H c (model 1 and 2) and p H (model 3) in the spatial models describe the SHR production in the vasculature, we instead used in the ODE analyses the effective SHR influx into the CEI, as measured at equilibrium ( p H c = p H = 137.5 a.u. h−1). (Note that in the spatial simulations those values vary in both space and time.) In CITATION, both the value used in the spatial simulations and the value used in the ODE analyses are given. Moreover, in CITATIONN we have indicated typical SHR influx into CEI and cortex (137.5 and 13.1 a.u. h−1, respectively). For the bifurcation diagrams and time series regarding the resetting (CITATIONL, 6M, CITATIONY, and S5Z), we focused on the first endodermal cell, which due to the increased protein turnover should be prevented to undergo another ACD. Again, we used the values as observed in the spatial simulations: (z = 0.07634; X = 5223 a.u.; p H c = p H = 332.5 a.u. h−1. To describe the SCRAxCxA mutant in CITATIONI–5L, we reduced the binding rate between SCR and RBR by 75% ( c T = c U = 0.1 ) . To describe the auxin treatment in CITATIONK and 5L, we immersed the root in a medium with auxin, creating an extra influx of auxin along the whole edge of the root of 5 a.u./μm. Auxin is calculated at a subcellular resolution, which can be noticed in CITATIONN. All other variables are calculated at a cellular resolution. We indicate the observed levels by color-coding each cell to represent its cellular concentration. The auxin (X), CYCD6;1 (C), and nuclear SHR (H n ) or SHR-SCR (A) concentration are displayed on a logarithmic scale, while (cytosolic) SHR (H c , H) and SHR-SCR-RBR (U) are displayed on a linear scale. Moreover, for SHR-SCR-RBR (U), the color-coding is proportional to the total amount per cell rather than its concentration (i.e., plotted is U⋅z), which is more meaningful. For straightforward comparison between the different treatments, the same color scale is used for both the wild-type and the mutants. This was done by fixing the minimum and maximum values for each of the displayed outputs to the values in the wild-type simulations that include auxin, except for SHR-SCR-RBR (U), where we fixed it to 20% of total RBR (0.2⋅r). Consequently, for the mutants and treatments the visual representation of the differences was truncated for values that were higher than the highest value in the wild-type or lower than the lowest value in the wild-type. Specifically, the minimum and maximum values in the color encoding were fixed to (in a.u.) X: [34.5,4.54 × 104]; H c : [0,647]; H: [0,42]; H n : [10−4,106]; A: [10−4,104]; C: [10−3,5 × 107]; S (model 1,2): [102,108]; S (model 3): [10−4,106].
