!~ABS~! Circadian clocks generate endogenous rhythms in most organisms from cyanobacteria to humans and facilitate entrainment to environmental diurnal cycles, thus conferring a fitness advantage. Both transcriptional and posttranslational mechanisms are prominent in the basic network architecture of circadian systems. Posttranscriptional regulation, including mRNA processing, is emerging as a critical step for clock function. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms linking RNA metabolism to the circadian clock network. Here, we report that a conserved SNW/Ski-interacting protein (SKIP) domain protein, SKIP, a splicing factor and component of the spliceosome, is involved in posttranscriptional regulation of circadian clock genes in Arabidopsis thaliana. Mutation in SKIP lengthens the circadian period in a temperature-sensitive manner and affects light input and the sensitivity of the clock to light resetting. SKIP physically interacts with the spliceosomal splicing factor Ser/Arg-rich protein45 and associates with the pre-mRNA of clock genes, such as PSEUDORESPONSE REGULATOR7 (PRR7) and PRR9, and is necessary for the regulation of their alternative splicing and mRNA maturation. Genome-wide investigations reveal that SKIP functions in regulating alternative splicing of many genes, presumably through modulating recognition or cleavage of 5′ and 3′ splice donor and acceptor sites. Our study addresses a fundamental question on how the mRNA splicing machinery contributes to circadian clock function at a posttranscriptional level.
!~RES~! To find new components in the floral transition pathway, we performed a genetic screen in a T-DNA–mutagenized background for early flowering mutants. From this, we isolated a recessive mutant that exhibits an early flowering phenotype under both long-day (LD) and short-day photoperiod conditions, which we have designated as early flowering and insensitive to photoperiod1-1 (eip1-1) (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Because some mutants affecting circadian clock function exhibit a photoperiod-insensitive phenotype in terms of flowering, we tested eip1-1 for altered rhythmicity and observed a lengthened (by ∼2.4 h) period of circadian leaf movement in continuous white light (LL) (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 2 online). We then tested the expression of the circadian clock-controlled LHCB1*1 (CAB2) gene, encoding a light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b binding protein, and observed a similar long period in eip1-1 under LL (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Table 2 online). Thus, EIP1 is necessary for circadian period determination of multiple circadian clock-controlled output rhythms. [[FIGURE]] Next, we monitored the effect of EIP1 mutation on the expression pattern of three core oscillator genes, CCA1, LHY, and TOC1. In both LL and continuous dark (DD) free-running conditions, eip1-1 lengthens the period in transcription of the three oscillator genes, as measured with Promoter:LUCIFERASE (LUC) assays (Figures 1C to 1E; see Supplemental Figure 1 and Supplemental Table 2 online). The elongated period of CCA1, LHY, and TOC1 expression was further confirmed at the level of steady state mRNA abundance by RNA gel blot analysis and quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Thus, these results indicate that EIP1 is critical for the function of the Arabidopsis circadian clock. EIP1 (At1g77180) was isolated through a map-based cloning approach (the T-DNA was not linked to the mutation) and a 22-bp deletion was detected in eip1-1 (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). At1g77180 previously has been identified as SKIP on the basis of altered abiotic stress responses (CITATION); therefore, we rename EIP1 as SKIP and eip1-1 as skip-1. The skip-1 mutation did not abolish the expression of SKIP (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The SKIP transcript in skip-1 has a 22-nucleotide deletion that results in a frame shift and is predicted to result in a truncated protein that retains the whole SNW and nuclear localization sequence domains and may retain partial function (see Supplemental Figure 3D online). A T-DNA insertion allele, skip-2, in which the T-DNA inserted into the nuclear localization sequence domain and therefore is predicted to result in a null phenotype was viable as a heterozygote but was severely dwarfed and infertile when homozygous (see Supplemental Figure 3D online). These results suggest that SKIP is an essential gene and that skip-1 is a weak allele, but skip-2 is a strong and presumably null allele. Because skip-1 is inherited recessively, we do not favor the alternate hypothesis that skip-1 is a neomorphic allele. SKIP encodes a 613–amino acid SNW/SKIP domain protein that is phylogenetically conserved from fungi to humans (see Supplemental Figures 3B and 3C online) and is an ortholog of SKIP in humans, Prp45 in yeast, and Bx42 in Drosophila (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The circadian clock defects in skip-1 were completely complemented by transforming SKIP genomic DNA into skip-1 plants (see Supplemental Figure 5A online), which confirms that SKIP is responsible for the circadian clock defects in skip-1. We performed green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged SKIP reporter, SKIP promoter-driven β-glucuronidase (GUS), and qRT-PCR assays to explore the subcellular localization and the expression pattern of SKIP. The results show that SKIP is a nuclear-localized protein with a broad expression pattern (Figures 2A to 2C). [[FIGURE]] Not all genes associated with the circadian clock exhibit circadian control of expression. We did not observe cycling abundance of SKIP steady state mRNA by RNA gel blot and qRT-PCR analysis (Figures 2D and 2E). Light and temperature are the most extensively studied input signals of the clock system. Light/dark cycles mediate circadian entrainment through associated photoreceptors, which regulate the abundance and/or activity of clock components. Therefore, we examined the function of SKIP in light input to the clock. The period of circadian rhythms in plants and day-active animals is inversely proportional to the environmental light intensity, known as Aschoff’s rule (CITATION). We observed that skip-1 is hypersensitive to both red and blue light compared with the wild type because the mutant exhibited a steeper slope in a plot of period versus fluence rate (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Table 3 online); analysis of covariance showed slopes for skip-1 to be significantly steeper than those of the wild type for both red (P < 0.0015) and blue (P < 0.0001) light. Like many clock mutants, skip-1 also showed defects in photomorphogenesis, with a shorter hypocotyl in constant red (cRL) or constant blue (cBL) light conditions (Figure 3B). These phenotypes were completely rescued in skip-1 complementation lines (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Therefore, SKIP negatively regulates the inhibition of hypocotyl elongation in response to both red and blue light. These data reveal that SKIP plays a role in red and blue light input to the clock and in photomorphogenesis. [[FIGURE]] The circadian clock is able to modulate its own sensitivity to environmental stimuli, such as dawn or dusk and temperature changes. Thus, the ability of a given stimulus (e.g., light pulse) to shift the phase of the clock varies according to the time of day (CITATION). To confirm the function of SKIP in light signal transduction to the clock, we developed phase transition curves (PTCs) and phase response curves (PRCs) to pulses of red (30 min at 100 µmol m−2 s−1) or blue (30 min at 25 µmol m−2 s−1) light given to dark-adapted skip-1 and wild-type plants by monitoring the expression of CCA1. We represented the PRC data as PTCs, in which the new phase, converted to circadian time (CT; which represents phase normalized to an arbitrary 24-h day), was plotted against the CT of the light pulse (CITATION; CITATION). The PTCs showed that skip-1 was more sensitive to light pulses in the late night/early morning than the wild type (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Table 4 online), indicating that skip-1 is hypersensitive to both red and blue light and SKIP negatively regulates clock sensitivity to light resetting. As can be seen in the PRCs, skip-1 exhibited stronger (by ∼3 h) phase advances to pulses given in the subjective day and stronger (by ∼3.5 h) phase delays to red light pulses given in the subjective night (see Supplemental Figure 6 and Supplemental Table 4 online). For blue light pulses, skip-1 exhibited stronger (by ∼2.4 h) phase advances to pulses given in the subjective day and dramatically greater phase delays to pulses given in the subjective night (see Supplemental Figure 6 and Supplemental Table 4 online). Organisms are able to maintain a circadian period close to 24 h across a broad range of physiological temperatures, which is known as temperature compensation and is one of hallmarks of circadian clocks (CITATION). The lengthened period phenotype of skip-1 was temperature sensitive and gradually disappeared with increasing temperature from 17 to 27°C (Figure 4). The period length in skip-1 was ∼3.5 h longer than that of the wild type at 17°C but very close to the wild type at 27°C (Figure 4). Thus, skip-1 has partially lost temperature compensation, indicating that SKIP plays a critical role in maintaining temperature compensation of the circadian clock. [[FIGURE]] It is well documented that SKIP acts as a splicing factor in both mammals and yeast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate further the molecular mechanism by which SKIP affects circadian clock function in Arabidopsis, we asked whether SKIP functions as a splicing factor. We first tested the ability of SKIP to complement the yeast prp45(1-169) mutant, which is defective in cell division and exhibits temperature sensitivity of growth due to a defect in pre-mRNA splicing (CITATION). ADH1:SKIP was able to rescue the cell division and temperature-dependent growth arrest defects in prp45(1-169) (Figures 5A and 5B). [[FIGURE]] To examine further whether SKIP acts as a splicing factor like Prp45 in yeast, we introduced the plasmids expressing an unmutated ACT1-CUP1 fusion construct or an ACT1-CUP1 fusion construct containing mutations in the 5′ splice site (5′SS), branch point site (BPS), or the 3′ splice site (3′SS) region of the ACT1 intron as indicated (Figure 5C) into prp45(1-169). Levels of pre-mRNA, lariat-exon 2 intermediate, and mature mRNA are analyzed by primer extension. Consistent with a previous report (CITATION), the splicing efficiency of unmutated ACT1-CUP1 fusion template in the prp45(1-169) appears the same as in the wild type (PRP45) (Figure 5D, lanes 1 and 2), and the splicing efficiency is not altered by transforming prp45 (1-169) with SKIP (Figure 5D, lanes 1 to 3). However, the splicing efficiency for the mutated templates, including 3′SS UAG to gAG, 5′SS GUA to GUc, and BPS (UACUAAC to UACUAcC or UACUAgC), was compromised in prp45(1-169) but was partially rescued by introducing the SKIP gene into prp45(1-169) (Figure 5D, lanes 4 to 15). That SKIP is able to rescue the cell division, temperature-sensitive, and splicing efficiency defects of prp45(1-169) in yeast indicates that SKIP is functionally conserved and possesses splicing activity in yeast. Pre-mRNA is spliced to generate mature mRNA within a ribonucleoprotein complex termed the spliceosome. To address whether SKIP is a component of the spliceosome in planta, we employed fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) to test for colocalization and physical interaction of SKIP with the spliceosome components U1-70K (CITATION) and SR45 (CITATION) in Nicotiana benthamiana. SKIP colocalized in nuclear speckles with the spliceosome components U1-70K and SR45 (Figures 6A and 6B). No FRET signal was detected in cells cotransformed with GFP-SKIP and U1-70K-mCherry (Figure 6A), indicating that these proteins do not interact closely. However, a strong FRET emission was observed in nuclear speckles of cells coexpressing GFP-SKIP and SR45-mCherry proteins (Figure 6B). The results were further confirmed by photobleaching. In agreement with the above results, FRET between GFP-SKIP and SR45-mCherry was detectable before bleaching the SR45-mCherry energy acceptor (Figure 6C, the prebleach panel), but enhanced fluorescent intensity of GFP-SKIP was observed after photodestruction of SR45-mCherry (Figure 6C, the postbleach panel), indicating energy transfer between GFP-SKIP and SR45-mCherry (Figure 6C). Increased GFP:SKIP fluorescence intensity after photobleaching of the mCherry acceptor is quantified in Figure 6D. These results indicate that SKIP is a component of the spliceosome in which it is closely associated with SR45. [[FIGURE]] To investigate further the function of SKIP in mRNA metabolism, we performed ultra-high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis using a mutant carrying the strong skip-2 loss-of-function allele. About 14.47 and 15.76 million reads with an average length of 42 bp from the wild type and skip-2, respectively, were aligned to the Arabidopsis reference genome (TAIR 9) (see Supplemental Table 5 online). Among them, ∼11.95 and 14.76 million reads for the wild type and skip-2, respectively, were mapped to unique loci in the genome (see Supplemental Table 5 online). An additional 0.34 and 0.48 million reads for the wild type and skip-2, respectively, were aligned to annotated exon-intron junctions (see Supplemental Table 5 online). Compared with the wild type, in skip-2, we identified ∼2979 novel splicing events, which could be sorted into four categories: intron retention (IR), alternative 5′ or 3′ splice site (A5′SS or A3′SS), and exon skipping (ES) (Figure 7A; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Although examples of both IR and ES were detected, the majority of the altered splicing events involved the use of alternative donor and acceptor splice sites, indicating that SKIP is probably involved in splice site recognition. [[FIGURE]] We validated these observations by detecting representative IR, A5′SS, A3′SS, and ES novel splicing events in skip-2 through RT-PCR using primers flanking them (see Supplemental Table 6 online). The IR, A5′SS, A3′SS, and ES events sampled from each chromosome could be detected in skip-1 and skip-2, but not in the wild type (Figures 7B to 7F; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Consensus sequences at the 5′SS and 3′SS are important for accurate splicing of pre-mRNAs in plants (CITATION). Although the majority of splice sites used in skip-2 conformed to consensus, the frequency distribution of the nucleotides at 5′SS and 3′SS from the novel splicing events detected in skip-2 differed from consensus, with obvious decreases in the frequency of both the dominant G and T at +1 and +2 positions of 5′ alternative donor sites and of both the A and G at −2 and −1 positions of 3′ alternative acceptor sites, consistent with a role of SKIP protein in 5′SS and 3′SS recognition or cleavage (Figure 7G; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). To identify biological pathways in which SKIP is involved, we conducted Gene Ontology analysis of genes undergoing abnormal splicing in skip-2 mutants through the agriGO Web server (CITATION). The results show that SKIP may be involved in multiple biological processes, including many aspects of metabolism, development, and reproduction (see Supplemental Figure 8A online). All the categories observed were overrepresented relative to the percentage in the genome (see Supplemental Figure 8B online). To determine whether SKIP directly regulates the expression of clock genes through splicing, we measured alternative splicing of PRR7 and PRR9 by an electrophoretic approach. In skip-1, aberrantly spliced variants of PRR7 and PRR9 were increased compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figures 9A and 9B online). To determine whether patterns of alternative splicing of PRR7 and PRR9 mRNAs are regulated by the circadian clock, we further performed qRT-PCR to detect the expression of the multiple PRR7 and PRR9 splicing isoforms. The skip-1 mutation decreased the accumulation of the fully spliced PRR7_a isoform and increased the accumulation of PRR7_b and PRR7_c aberrantly spliced variants (Figures 8A to 8C). Similarly, the accumulation of the fully spliced PRR9_a isoform was decreased, whereas the accumulation of PRR9_b, PRR9_c, PRR9_d, and PRR9_e incompletely spliced isoforms was elevated in skip-1 compared with the wild type (Figures 8D to 8H). These splicing defects in skip-1 resulted in an ∼50% reduction in the peak level of PRR7_a and a slight reduction in the peak level of PRR9_a, the only isoforms capable of being translated to give functional PRR7 and PRR9 proteins (Figures 8A and 8D). The splicing defects also reduced the proportion of PRR7_a and PRR9_a relative to total PRR7 and PRR9 transcripts in skip-1 (Figures 8A to 8H; see Supplemental Figures 9C and 9D online). These results suggest that the decreased peak levels of PRR7_a and, to a lesser extent, PRR9_a and possibly the enhanced accumulation of the aberrantly spliced PRR7 and PRR9 isoforms in skip-1 contribute to the lengthened period phenotype, which is consistent with the lengthened period seen in prr7 and prr9 loss-of-function mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Splicing of pre-mRNA requires recruitment to the spliceosome. Therefore, we asked if pre-mRNAs associate with SKIP in planta using the circadian oscillator genes PRR7 and PRR9 as examples. We took advantage of the SKIP:GFP-SKIP transgenic line in the skip-1 background and applied antibody against GFP to immunoprecipitate GFP-SKIP. The immunoprecipitates of GFP-SKIP were then reverse transcribed into cDNA and further probed by RT-PCR with primers specific to PRR7 and PRR9, using no immunoprecipitation (input) and immunoprecipitation without anti-GFP antibody (NA) samples as controls. Pre-mRNA for each of these clock genes was detected in the input and the immunoprecipitation sample from the SKIP:GFP-SKIP transgenic line and confirmed by sequencing (Figure 8I). The results support a role for the SKIP-containing spliceosome in splicing of the PRR7 and PRR9 pre-mRNAs. To determine whether SKIP modulates circadian period solely through alternative splicing of PRR7 and PRR9, we generated double or triple mutants of prr7-3, prr9-1, and skip-1 and assessed circadian rhythmicity with CCA1:LUC. The periods of prr7-3 skip-1 and prr9-1 skip-1 double mutants were significantly longer than those of prr7-3, prr9-1, and skip-1 single mutants but were significantly shorter than that of the prr7-3 prr9-1 double mutant, which suggests that the skip-1 mutation partially compromises the expression of both PRR7 and PRR9, but the defect is not as severe as a complete loss of PRR7 and PRR9 function. This is consistent with the reduced but still detectable levels of PRR7_a and PRR9_a mRNAs (Figure 8J). Moreover, there must be circadian clock targets in addition to PRR7 and PRR9 because the period of the prr7-3 prr9-1 skip-1 triple mutant was significantly longer than that of the prr7-3 prr9-1 double mutant (Figure 8J). Consistent with this prediction, we observed skip-1 splicing defects for several other clock genes, including ARR4, CCA1, LHY, and TOC1, although not obvious for FIO1, TEJ, and ARR3 under the same condition (see Supplemental Figures 9E and 9F online). We conclude that the splicing defects in other clock genes besides PRR7 and PRR9 may also contribute to the elongated period or other circadian defects of skip-1. It was observed that the splicing patterns for LHY, PRR9, TEJ, and FIO1 in the wild type are quite dissimilar from those in skip-2 determined with RNA-seq (see Supplemental Figure 9E online). We attribute this to low expression in the wild type; the period difference between the wild type and skip-2 resulted in sampling at the peak of expression in skip-2 but at the trough of expression in the wild type. We initially identified skip-1 on the basis of a flowering time defect, so we also assessed splicing of the transcripts of flowering time genes, including SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO1 (SOC1), CONSTANS, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), ELF3, ELF4, and GI. Among these genes, we observed obvious splicing defects (IR) for ELF3 and GI in skip-1 compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figures 9E and 9F online), suggesting that SKIP may affect both circadian clock and flowering time through alternative splicing. Loss of ELF3 function through IR would be consistent with the early flowering phenotype (CITATION) characteristic of skip mutants, although loss of GI function would be expected to confer late flowering (CITATION; CITATION). However, the abundance of the mature fully spliced transcript was not obviously reduced in skip-1 for either ELF3 or GI, suggesting that these transcripts are unlikely to be the primary SKIP targets of relevance for the early flowering phenotype seen in skip-1 mutants.
!~MM~! All plant materials used in this study were in the Columbia-0 ecotype (Col-0) background of Arabidopsis thaliana. Seeds were sterilized and placed on Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.3% agar and 1% Suc. After stratification in the dark at 4°C for 2 d, plates were transferred to white light (70 µmol m−2 s−1) in a Percival CU36L5 growth chamber (Percival Scientific). Plants for flowering time determination were grown under various light–dark photocycles (LD) with cool white fluorescent light (100 µmol m−2 s−1) at 22°C for the day and 18°C for the night. For hypocotyl length measurement, sterilized and stratified seeds were planted on Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.3% agar and 1% Suc plates under white light for 12 h before transfer into cRL (670 nm) or cBL (470 nm) at 22°C under various fluence rates, provided with a Percival E30LED chamber. Hypocotyl length was measured after 6 d in cRL and cBL. Leaf movement was measured as described previously (CITATION). For LUC activity assays, 7- to 10-d-old seedlings entrained to LD (12 h light/12 h dark) were released into LL or DD conditions for LUC measurement (CITATION). Circadian rhythms were assayed with BRASS 2.1.4 (CITATION), which employs fast Fourier transform nonlinear least squares (CITATION). The strength of a circadian rhythm is expressed as relative amplitude error (RAE). An ideal cosine wave is defined as RAE = 0 and RAE = 1 defines the statistically detectable limit of rhythmicity. For temperature compensation assays, seedlings were entrained in 12-h-light/12-h-dark (LD) cycles at 22°C for 7 to 10 d before transferring to LL at 12, 22, and 27°C for LUC activity measurement. For fluence response curves, CCA1:LUC transgenic seedlings were entrained to LD cycles at 22°C for 7 d before transfer to cRL or cBL at indicated fluence rates. On the first day in LL, seedlings were transferred to 96-well microplates (Perkin-Elmer) for LUC activity measurement; microplates were transferred manually to the Packard TopCount at 3-h intervals. The response of period to fluence rate of red and blue light was analyzed by linear regression followed by analysis of covariance using GraphPad Prism software. PRCs were generated with CCA1:LUC seedlings entrained to 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycles at 22°C for 7 d before transferring to DD. After one whole day in DD, pulses (30 min) of red (100 µmol m−2 s−1) or blue (25 µmol m−2 s−1) light were given to individual plates at 3-h intervals scanning one complete circadian cycle (24 h). Free-running rhythms of CCA1:LUC were monitored in DD. Acrophase (peak phase) was determined by Fourier transform nonlinear least squares. Changes in acrophase relative to seedlings not exposed to light pulse are plotted against the CT of the light pulses. For CT, phase is normalized for period length to an arbitrary 24-h day, with CT0 defined as dawn (lights on) of the entraining cycle. Constructs of firefly LUC reporter gene driven by the CCA1, LHY, and TOC1 promoters (CITATION) and LHCB1*1 (CAB2):LUC in pZP222 vector (−199/+1) (CITATION) were introduced into skip-1 through transformation. The eip1-1 mutation was isolated by map-based positional cloning (CITATION). To generate a mapping population, eip1-1 was crossed to Landsberg erecta (Ler), and 467 eip1-1 plants with early flowering phenotype in the F2 population were scored by PCR for molecular markers cosegregating with the eip1-1 mutation. The eip1-1 mutation was initially anchored to the lower arm of chromosome I between AthATPASE and K14-1 simple sequence length polymorphism (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). A high-resolution map was generated using simple sequence length polymorphism or cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences markers by taking advantage of the polymorphism list between Col-0 and Ler (TAIR; http://www.Arabidopsis.org/). Two recombinants, L12B-57 and L12B-108, flanking a 25-kb region in which there are 13 open reading frames, were obtained between N5-7 and N5-4 cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences markers. The open reading frames in the region were sequenced and a 22-bp deletion was detected in the SKIP (At1g77180) locus, which results in a frame shift to truncate the SKIP protein (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). Amino acid sequences of At-SKIP and its homologs from other organisms were aligned using Jalview software through ClustalW (CITATION). GenBank accessions of SKIP homologs are the following: Homo sapiens, NP_036377, SKIP (CITATION); Mus musculus, NP_079783 (CITATION); Drosophila melanogaster, NP_511093, Bx42 (CITATION); Caenorhabditis elegans, NP_505950 (direct submission); Oryza sativa japonica, NP_001048184, Os-SKIP (CITATION); Schizosaccharomyces pombe, NP_588213 (CITATION); Saccharomyces cerevisiae, NP_00937, Prp45 (CITATION); and Neurospora crassa OR74A, XP_961188 (CITATION). The corresponding molecular phylogenetic tree was built by maximum likelihood using MEGA 4 (CITATION). The alignment and other parameters used to generate the tree are available as Supplemental Data Set 3 online. Both genomic and cDNA constructs of SKIP were tested for the ability to complement the skip-1 phenotype. A 5770-bp genomic fragment spanning the SKIP locus (2704 bp upstream of the ATG, 1842 bp coding region, and 1201 bp downstream of the TAA) and a SKIP cDNA fused to GFP were cloned into the pCambia1300 binary vector. The resulting SKIP:SKIP and SKIP:GFP-SKIP plasmids were introduced into skip-1 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Flowering time, leaf movement, and hypocotyl length were determined in the T2 or T3 generations of transgenic lines (SKIP:SKIP/skip-1). Complemented T3 lines (SKIP:GFP-SKIP/skip-1) were used for RNA immunoprecipitation (RNA-IP). SKIP:GUS transgenic (T3) lines were used to determine the expression pattern of SKIP via histochemical GUS reporter activity (CITATION). Transgenic (T3) lines carrying an N-terminal fusion of GFP to SKIP, driven by the SKIP promoter (SKIP:GFP-SKIP), were generated to determine the tissue, organ, and temporal expression patterns and subcellular localization of SKIP. For RT-PCR and qRT-PCR, total RNA was extracted from seedlings using TaKaRa RNAiso Plus. After RNase-free DNase I (RQ1 RNase-Free DNase; Promega) treatment, 3 µg of RNA was used for the first-strand cDNA synthesis (RevertAid first-strand cDNA synthesis kit; Fermentas). TaKaRa SYBR Premix Ex Taq and a 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR instrument (Applied Biosystems) were used for qRT-PCR. For the electropherogram analysis, the forward primers of PRR7 and PRR9 were labeled with carboxyfluorescein. After RT-PCR, the PCR products are applied to ABI3730 sequencer for electrophoresis. Collected data were analyzed with GeneMapper ID v3.2 software. For RNA gel blot hybridization, 10 µg of total RNA was separated on 1.2% agarose denaturing formaldehyde gels and transferred to nylon membranes. Hybridization probes were radiolabeled and hybridization was done in Church’s buffer (CITATION) at 65°C overnight with gentle rotation. The blot was washed sequentially with 2× SSC, 1× SSC, and 0.5× SSC, twice each for 10 min at 65°C with gentle rotation. Images were visualized using a phosphor imager (Amersham Biosciences; Storage Phosphor Screen), and the intensities were quantified using ImageQuant software. The BamHI-SalI fragment of SKIP from Arabidopsis was cloned under the yeast ADH1 promoter in pRS416 as ADH1:SKIP. Rescue of the morphological defects in prp45(1-169) was scored in EGY48 (MATα ura3-1 leu2-3, 112 trp1-1 his3-1, 115 ade2-1 can1-100), KAY02 [prp45(1-169)-HA:kanMX6] (CITATION; CITATION), or KAY02 transformed with ADH1:SKIP plasmid strains and grown at 30 or 37°C on the appropriate selective media for 3 d. Primer extension was conducted as described previously with slight modification (CITATION; CITATION). Extension products were separated in an 8% polyacrylamide/8 M urea gel, and the results were visualized by autoradiography. To determine the band intensity in Figure 5D, we analyzed the band with Quantity One software. The Volume Analysis Report was selected to analyze the band intensity. The mean value in the chosen sizeable box represents the mean intensity of the specific band. The RNA-IP assay was conducted as described previously (CITATION; CITATION) with slight modification. Ten-day-old whole seedlings of transgenic complementation lines harboring SKIP:GFP-SKIP in the skip-1 background grown under 12-h-light/12-h-dark conditions were harvested at Zeitgeber time 0 (ZT0) and ZT8 (dawn and 8 h after dawn) to detect the association of SKIP with the pre-mRNA of PRR7 and PRR9. After cross-linking in 1% formaldehyde, a series preimmunoprecipitation treatment and immunoprecipitation with GFP antibody, the immunoprecipitation products were eluted with immunoprecipitation elution buffer. The associated RNAs were quantified by RT-PCR with primer pairs crossing the intron-exon junctions of PRR7 and PRR9 pre-mRNAs after reversing cross-link. FRET was conducted as described previously (CITATION). 35S:GFP-SKIP in pCambia1300 binary vector and 35S:SR45-mCherry or 35S:U1-70K-mCherry in pCambia2300 binary vector were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves infiltrated with Agrobacterium strains carrying the appropriate binary plasmids. pCambia1300-P19 plasmid was coinfiltrated to suppress RNA interference. After 3 d of growth in a greenhouse at 26°C under 16 h light/8 h dark, infiltrated leaves were examined by confocal microscopy. To test for interaction of SKIP and SR45 or U1-70K, 2- to 3-week-old N. benthamiana leaves were transformed with GFP-SKIP, SR45-mCherry, or U1-70K-mCherry alone or with GFP-SKIP cotransformed with either SR45-mCherry or U1-70K-mCherry. Both imaging sensitized emission and acceptor photobleaching approaches for FRET measurement were applied. Three days after transformation, sensitized emission FRET was performed with an Olympus FluoView FV1000 laser scanning confocal microscope. Images in donor (excitation 488 nm; emission 500 to 530 nm), acceptor (excitation 543 nm; emission 560 to 630 nm), and FRET (excitation 488 nm; emission 560 to 630 nm) channels were captured. The energy transfer efficiency and distance between the two interacted proteins were calculated as follows:where PFRET is precision FRET (correction done FRET image); DSBT is donor spectral bleed-through; ASBT is acceptor spectral bleed-through; a is donor channel image of donor excited, with donor only dyed; b is acceptor channel image of donor excited, with donor only dyed; c is acceptor channel image of donor excited, with acceptor only dyed; d is acceptor channel image of acceptor excited, with acceptor only dyed; e is donor channel image of donor excited, with donor and acceptor dyed; f is acceptor channel image of donor excited, with donor and acceptor dyed; g is acceptor channel image of acceptor excited, with donor and acceptor dyed. For acceptor photobleaching FRET, the fluorescence of the GFP and RFP channels were scanned as for sensitized emission FRET before and after photobleaching. Bleaching of the acceptor fluorescence signal was performed using a 543-nm beam at maximum intensity for 4 s. For mRNA sequencing, total RNA was isolated using TRI reagent (Ambion). mRNA was extracted from total RNA using Dynabeads mRNA DIRECT kit (Invitrogen). First- and second-strand cDNA was synthesized using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and random hexamers primers. DNA Sample Prep Master Mix Set 1 (New England Biolabs) was used to add adapters to the ends of the cDNA. Then, the products of the ligation reaction were purified on a gel to select a size range of templates for downstream enrichment by PCR amplification. After enrichment, the library was sequenced thoroughly. An overview of the RNA-seq analysis pipeline for reads mapping, expression quantification, detection of differential expression, data visualization, and downstream bioinformatics analysis is summarized in Supplemental Figure 10 online. In brief, the Arabidopsis genome build and annotated gene set were downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (ftp://ftp.Arabidopsis.org/home/tair/Sequences/). After removing reads containing sequencing adapters, we mapped reads to the Arabidopsis TAIR9 genome build with BOWTIE (CITATION), allowing up to two mismatches. Reads that failed to be mapped to the genome build were aligned by de novo mapping using BLAT (CITATION) against the same genome build to find splice junctions. The gene locus expression levels were measured in the reads per kilobase of exon per million mapped reads unit and were calculated based on mapping outputs using ERANGE (CITATION). The cutoff value of determining significant expression or translation was 1.0 RPKM based on spike-in controls and reproducibility (CITATION). Differential expression analysis was performed using edgeR using raw mapping counts from BOWTIE and BLAT mapping (CITATION). Data were modeled as negative binomial distributed because our data set contains biological replicates instead of technique replicates. The multiple testing errors were addressed using the false discovery rate. Differential expression cutoff was set as above twofold changes in expression and false discovery rate–adjusted P < 0.001. To alleviate the bias in the detection of differential expression influenced by the transcript length (CITATION), we added the expression ratio cutoff (twofold). The raw data and processed data of high-throughput mRNA sequencing were submitted to the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE32216). Splicing events identified by de novo mapping using BLAT were compared with the gene annotation in TAIR9. IR is considered as the complete retention of an intron in a transcript, which has >1.0 RPKM, the same detection criteria for exons and transcripts (CITATION). Alternative 5′ or 3′SS, ES, or unclassified splicing (with novel 5′ and 3′SSs) is defined by the existence of a de novo mapping identified read, which represents a splicing event not annotated in TAIR9. Alternative splicing events classification is according to CITATION. Nucleotide frequencies around novel and known splicing sites were counted and visually displayed using sequence logos (CITATION). GO analysis was conducted through the website GO Analysis Toolkit and Database for Agricultural Community (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: SKIP (At1g77180), PRR7 (At5g02810), PRR9 (At2g46790), SR45 (At1g16610), U1-70K (At3g50670), TEJ (At2g31870), ARR4 (At1g10470), CCA1 (At2g46830), LHY (At1g01060), TOC1 (At5g61380), FIO1 (At2g21070), ARR3 (At1g59940), SOC1 (At2g45660), FT (At1g65480), ELF3 (At2g25930), ELF4 (At2g40080), and GI (At1g22770). SKIP homologs are as follows: H. sapiens, NP_036377, M. musculus, NP_079783, Drosophila, NP_511093, C. elegans, NP_505950, O. sativa japonica, NP_001048184, S. pombe, NP_588213, S. cerevisiae, NP_00937, and N. crassa OR74A, XP_961188. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Effects of eip1-1 on Clock Gene Expression in Constant Dark. Supplemental Figure 2. Circadian Expression of CCA1, LHY, and TOC1 in the Wild Type and skip-1. Supplemental Figure 3. EIP1 Encodes a Conserved SNW Domain–Containing Protein, SKIP. Supplemental Figure 4. skip-1 Mutation Does Not Abolish the Expression of SKIP Partial Transcript. Supplemental Figure 5. skip-1 Phenotypes Are Rescued by SKIP Genomic DNA. Supplemental Figure 6. Phase Response Curve of CCA1:LUC Expression to Pulses of Red or Blue Light in the Wild Type and skip-1. Supplemental Figure 7. Validation of Intron Retention Splicing Defects in skip-2 Detected by RNA-Seq through RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 8. Enriched Gene Ontology Terms (False Detection Rate <0.01) in Genes with Splicing Defects in skip-2. Supplemental Figure 9. Expression of PRR7 and PRR9 Splicing Isoforms and Splicing Alteration of Circadian Associated and Flowering Time Control Genes in skip Detected through RNA Sequencing and RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 10. The Bioinformatic Pipeline for RNA Sequencing. Supplemental Table 1. Early Flowering and Photoperiod-Insensitive Phenotypes in eip1-1. Supplemental Table 2. Circadian Period Lengthening in eip1-1/skip-1 under LL Condition. Supplemental Table 3. CCA1:LUC Rhythm under Differential Intensity and Spectrum of Light Conditions. Supplemental Table 4. Phase Responses to Red Light and Blue Light Pulses. Supplemental Table 5. Results of Ultra-High-Throughput RNA Sequencing Analysis. Supplemental Table 6. Primers Used in the Studies. Supplemental Data Set 1. Number of New Splicing Events Belonging to Four Alternative Splicing Types in skip-2. Supplemental Data Set 2. The Frequency Distribution of Nucleotides at 5 and 3 Prime Splicing Site. Supplemental Data Set 3. Text File of the Alignment Used to Generate the Phylogenetic Tree Shown in Supplemental Figure 3C.
