!~ABS~! G protein–coupled receptor-type G proteins (GTGs) are highly conserved membrane proteins in plants, animals, and fungi that have eight to nine predicted transmembrane domains. They have been classified as G protein–coupled receptor-type G proteins that function as abscisic acid (ABA) receptors in Arabidopsis thaliana. We cloned Arabidopsis GTG1 and GTG2 and isolated new T-DNA insertion alleles of GTG1 and GTG2 in both Wassilewskija and Columbia backgrounds. These gtg1 gtg2 double mutants show defects in fertility, hypocotyl and root growth, and responses to light and sugars. Histological studies of shoot tissue reveal cellular distortions that are particularly evident in the epidermal layer. Stable expression of GTG1pro:GTG1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) in Arabidopsis and transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) indicate that GTG1 is localized primarily to Golgi bodies and to the endoplasmic reticulum. Microarray analysis comparing gene expression profiles in the wild type and double mutant revealed differences in expression of genes important for cell wall function, hormone response, and amino acid metabolism. The double mutants isolated here respond normally to ABA in seed germination assays, root growth inhibition, and gene expression analysis. These results are inconsistent with their proposed role as ABA receptors but demonstrate that GTGs are fundamentally important for plant growth and development.
!~RES~! GTG1 and GTG2 cDNA and genomic sequences were independently cloned from Arabidopsis Columbia (Col-8). cDNA sequences are identical to those predicted in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.Arabidopsis.org). GTG1 and GTG2 are 468– and 467–amino acid proteins, respectively, with a predicted molecular mass of 53.5 kD. They are 90% identical at the amino acid level and are part of a conserved family of proteins found in plants, animals, and fungi (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). [[FIGURE]] From phylogenetic analysis, the plant, animal, and fungal GTG/GPHR proteins group separately according to their kingdom: Plantae, Fungi, and Animalia (Figure 1B; see Supplemental Table 2 and Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Several sequences from organisms that are classified into different kingdoms are somewhat distinct from these and each other. These include GTG/GPHRs from Dictyostelium discoideum (Amoebozoa), Monosiga brevicollis (Opisthokonta), Trypanosoma cruzi (Excavata), Phytophthora infestans, Toxoplasma gondii, Tetrahymena thermophila, and Paramecium tetraurelia (Chromalveolata). The algal GTGs separate from those of the land plants. Alignment of the predicted protein sequences of Arabidopsis GTG1 and GTG2 with those of different plant and animal GTGs is shown in Figure 1A. The plant sequences show a high level of conservation and share regions of similarity with animal GTGs throughout the protein. Overall, GTG1 and GTG2 are 42 and 43% identical, respectively, at the amino acid level to hamster GPHR, which has recently been proposed as an anion channel critical for Golgi acidification and function (CITATION). There is less conservation with fungal sequences from Neurospora crassa and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but again regions of similarity are seen throughout the proteins (see Supplemental Figure 1 and Supplemental Table 1 online). GTG1 and GTG2 are predicted to consist of eight to 10 transmembrane domains with a large cytoplasmic domain between the 5th and 6th membrane-spanning helices (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Table 3 online). Overlapping the 5th membrane domain is a highly conserved region spanning ∼70 amino acids (amino acids 140 to 210) with a single completely conserved G residue that may be functionally important (Figure 1A). Proteins with this conserved region are annotated as members of the DUF3735 family (domain of unknown function 3735), which has only been identified in eukaryotes and contains the conserved amino acid motif LSG (Welcome Trust Sanger Institute; http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/family). Additionally, CITATION reported the presence of a Ras GTPase-activating protein domain (amino acids 227 to 243) and an ATP/GTP binding region signature (amino acids 380 to 410). These are annotated in Figure 1A, but it should be noted that the nucleotide binding site overlaps a predicted transmembrane domain and may therefore not be solvent exposed. The nucleotide coding sequences of GTG1 and GTG2 are over 80% conserved; GTG1 and GTG2 consist of 13 exons that are the same size, except for exon four of GTG1, which has an additional three nucleotides. These exons are separated by intron/exon splice points that are conserved between the two genes. These data suggest the two genes are probably the result of a relatively recent gene duplication event that is likely to have occurred after the divergence of Arabidopsis from other plants and may explain why Arabidopsis has two functional genes unlike most other plants, which have one. We isolated SALK and FLAG T-DNA insertion mutants in Col and Wassilewskija (Ws) backgrounds, respectively, for both GTG1 and GTG2. These have been designated gtg1-2, gtg1-3, gtg2-2, and gtg2-3 and are new mutant alleles compared with those previously isolated (CITATION). Using these single mutants, we generated the double mutants gtg1-2 gtg2-2 and gtg1-3 gtg2-3, hereafter referred to as Col gtg1 gtg2 and Ws gtg1 gtg2, respectively. Wild-type and mutant alleles were genotyped by PCR using gene-specific diagnostic primers flanking the insertion site (see Supplemental Table 4 online). The positions of the T-DNA inserts are shown in Figure 2C and were confirmed by sequencing. PCR using wild-type genomic DNA as a template generated products of the correct size for GTG1 and GTG2, but no equivalent products were observed for the mutants (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). [[FIGURE]] RT-PCR expression analysis with gene-specific primers resulted in full-length 1.4-kb products for GTG1 and GTG2 from wild-type samples, but no full-length product could be amplified from gtg1-3, gtg2-2, and gtg2-3 homozygous mutant samples, indicating that these are null mutants (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Figure 2B online). However, for gtg1-2 and the Col gtg1 gtg2 double mutants, RT-PCR using GTG1-specific primers produced two faint products slightly <1.4 kb (Figure 2B). Sequencing showed these to have resulted from T-DNA excision. In the case of the smaller 1276-bp product, a region 671 bases from the end of the 11th intron through to the start of the 13th exon of GTG1 has been spliced out, whereas the larger 1385-bp product results from the loss of 22 nucleotides that span the T-DNA insertion in the 12th exon. If translated, the 1276- and 1385-bp cDNAs would generate truncated proteins of 387 and 405 amino acids, respectively. Although the loop domain remains intact in the two possible proteins, both lack the last two predicted membrane domains and therefore may not be functional. When grown on standard agar plates, the single mutants appeared similar to the wild type (data not shown); however, the gtg1 gtg2 mutants showed an altered morphology. The hypocotyls were slightly thicker, and large distended cells were often seen at the hypocotyl surface (Figures 3A and 3B). This phenotype was exacerbated in the presence of Suc (Figure 3C). In transverse sections of the hypocotyl, there was a severe disruption of cellular shape in the double mutants, and irregularly shaped cells were particularly evident in the epidermal layer (Figure 3D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). A disrupted epidermal layer was also seen in cotyledon sections from the double mutants (Figure 3D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the response to light, the insertional mutants were grown in the dark and under low white light (10 μmol m−2 s−1) in the absence and presence of Suc. The mutants showed no significant difference in hypocotyl length from the wild type when grown in the dark but, under low white light, the double mutants were shorter than their corresponding wild type, significantly in the case of the Col gtg1-2 gtg2-2 (Figure 4A). When Suc was included in the medium, the double mutants in both backgrounds were significantly shorter than the wild type under low white light (Figure 4B). [[FIGURE]] In addition to a short hypocotyl phenotype, gtg1 gtg2 mutants were generally smaller than wild-type seedlings (Figure 5A) with reduced shoot and root biomass (Figure 5B) and a shorter primary root length (Figures 5A and 5C). Suc restored this defect, and in its presence, growth of the double mutant was similar to or exceeded that of the wild type (Figures 5A to 5C). This is not simply an osmotic effect as mannitol had little effect on the growth of the gtg1 gtg2 mutants (Figure 5B). Time-course measurements showed that, in the absence of Suc, the gtg1 gtg2 mutants germinated at the same time as the wild type and root growth was similar until day five, when growth rate was reduced in the mutant compared with wild type (Figure 5D). In the presence of Suc, no marked difference in root growth rate was observed in the gtg1 gtg2 mutants compared with the wild type (Figure 5D): 5 mM Suc could partially rescue the biomass defect on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) and fully rescue the root length defect, and even 1 mM Suc could rescue the root length defect (Figure 5E). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that these phenotypes resulted from the loss of GTG proteins, we transformed the Ws gtg1 gtg2 mutant with either 35Spro:GTG1 or 35Spro:GTG2. Three independent T3 homozygous lines were characterized for each gene. Expression analysis by RT-PCR showed that these lines all expressed the relevant gene (Figure 6). In all cases, both GTG1 and GTG2 fully rescued the short hypocotyl and root phenotypes of Ws gtg1 gtg2 mutant seedlings (Figures 6B and 6C). [[FIGURE]] GTG1 and GTG2 were recently reported to be GTG proteins functioning in Arabidopsis as ABA receptors (CITATION). In that study, the double mutant gtg1-1 gtg2-1 showed hyposensitivity to ABA. Therefore, we tested several characteristic ABA responses in the mutant alleles we isolated. Both the gtg1-2 gtg2-2 and gtg1-3 gtg2-3 double mutants showed a similar inhibition of root extension by ABA compared with their respective wild types (Figure 7A). There was also no significant difference in the response to ABA for seed germination in double mutants compared with the wild type (Figure 7B). Finally, we tested the expression of the ABA-induced genes Responsive to ABA18 (RAB 18) and Dre-Binding Protein2A (DREB2A) by real-time RT-PCR using 7-d-old seedlings treated for 4 h with 50 μm ABA or a mock ethanol treatment (negative control). RAB18 and DREB2A both showed significant induction by ABA in wild-type seedlings, but, in contrast with the previous study (CITATION), no loss of induction was seen in either gtg1-2 gtg2-2 or gtg1-3 gtg2-3 mutants (Figure 7C), with RAB18 showing a stronger induction by ABA in the mutants. [[FIGURE]] When generating the gtg1 gtg2 double mutants, we observed a distortion in the segregation ratios. Crossing of the single gtg1 and gtg2 mutants resulted in gtg1(+/−) gtg2(+/−) double heterozygotes, which were self-fertilized to generate the double homozygous mutant. However, the resulting progeny did not segregate according to the expected Mendelian segregation ratio of 1 in 16 double mutants with no double mutants observed either in the Col or Ws backgrounds. This was confirmed by PCR genotyping of the progeny of 42 Ws gtg1-3(+/−) gtg2-3(+/−) double heterozygous plants. To increase the chances of isolating a double homozygous gtg1-3 gtg2-3 mutant, progeny from 28 gtg1-3(−/−) gtg2-3(+/−) and 52 gtg1-3(+/−) gtg2-3(−/−) parental plants were planted. Although an average of 20 double mutants from a total of 80 seeds (ratio of 1 in 4) would be expected, we only identified three double homozygous plants from the gtg1-3(+/−) gtg2-3(−/−) parental line, a result that was significantly different from predicted (χ2 test, P ≤ 0.05). Similar results were obtained for the Col gtg1-2(+/−) gtg2-2 (−/−) mutant with one double homozygous plant obtained out of 24 progeny tested. To test whether the distorted segregation ratios could be due to possible defects in gtg1 gtg2 double mutant pollen, a series of in vitro and in vivo pollen germination and pollen tube growth assays were performed (Figure 8). In the in vitro assay where pollen was allowed to germinate on agarose, the double mutants in both backgrounds showed reduced pollen germination and pollen tube extension growth (Figures 8A to 8C). When self-fertilizing stigma were observed, pollen tube growth was less evident in the double mutants than the wild type (Figure 8D). The majority of double mutant pollen tubes penetrated no further than half way along the pistil, whereas the pollen tubes penetrated the entire length of the wild-type stigma (Figure 8D). A semi–in vivo assay in which wild-type and double mutant pollen grains were allowed to germinate and grow through a wild-type stigma showed that wild-type pollen tubes extended the length of the stigma, while mutant pollen tubes showed less growth over the time period examined. This was particularly evident for the Col background (see Supplemental Table 5 online). No obvious defects were observed in the overall flower structure, and anther growth appeared similar in double mutants and their respective wild types. [[FIGURE]] When the wild type, gtg single, and gtg double mutants were grown on soil under standard conditions, there was a reduced silique length in the double (but not the single) mutants, and this was most marked in the Col gtg1 gtg2 mutant (Figures 9A and 9B). Seed number per silique was also severely reduced in the double mutants with a greater proportion of undeveloped or aborted ovules per silique (Figure 9C), and again this was most pronounced in the Col gtg1 gtg2 mutant. This led to an overall reduction in seed yield per plant (Figure 9F). Although seed number was reduced, double mutant seed was considerably larger than the wild type (Figures 9D and 9E). We tested whether the silique length could be rescued by fertilizing Col gtg1 gtg2 mutants with wild-type pollen. Col gtg1 gtg2 mutant plants fertilized with their own pollen had short siliques, whereas when fertilized with wild-type pollen, silique length was significantly increased but not to wild-type length (Figure 9G). When Col gtg1 gtg2 pollen was used to fertilize wild-type plants, the siliques remained short (Figure 9G). [[FIGURE]] The expression patterns of GTG1 and GTG2 were determined using Arabidopsis plants expressing either GTGpro:GUS (for β-glucuronidase) or GTGpro:GTG-GUS fusions. As both construct types showed very similar expression patterns, the data are shown only for the GTGpro:GTG-GUS–expressing lines. GTG1 and GTG2 are expressed throughout the plant with a similar pattern (Figure 10). Both genes are expressed in the cotyledons, hypocotyl, and root with very strong expression observed in the root tip (Figure 10). High expression was observed in the vascular system in the root, hypocotyl, and cotyledon. In mature plants, expression occurred throughout, but was again particularly strong in the vascular system of mature leaves as well as the hydathodes. The flowers showed expression throughout, with the highest expression levels at the base of the carpel as well as in the stigma, stamen, and pollen. [[FIGURE]] Transient expression of 35Spro:GTG1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) and 35Spro:GTG2-GFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts showed localization close to the periphery of the cells as had been reported previously (CITATION). However, we also frequently observed fluorescence within the interior of the protoplast (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). To analyze localization further, we generated Arabidopsis lines transformed with the genomic construct of GTG1 carrying a C-terminal GFP tag (GTG1pro:GTG1-GFP). Overall tissue-specific expression in the seedling was similar to that seen using the GUS-tagged constructs with a high level in the root tip region and also in the tip of developing lateral roots (Figure 11A, a to g). Closer examination of GTG1pro:GTG1-GFP localization within roots showed GFP expression predominantly within Golgi bodies of nonelongated cells within the cell division zone of the root tip (Figure 11A, h and i). As cells began to elongate, Golgi localization was not so apparent, and in fully elongated root cells, there was a more diffuse pattern (Figure 11A, j). Time-lapse studies confirmed that GTG1-GFP was localized to Golgi bodies because of their dynamic characteristics (see Supplemental Movie 1 online). To confirm endomembrane localization, 35Spro:GTG1-GFP was transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf cells. GFP fluorescence was located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi bodies (Figure 11B, a), and Golgi body localization was confirmed by coexpression with the Golgi marker sialyl transferase using 35Spro:ST-mRFP (Figure 11B, b; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To provide a better understanding of the impact of the loss of GTG proteins and, therefore, their role in the cell, we performed a microarray analysis on 6-d-old white-light-grown seedlings using the Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array through the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) transcriptomics facility. The expression of 295 genes showed significantly altered expression (twofold or greater) in the Col gtg1 gtg2 double mutant compared with the wild type. Increased expression was observed for 194 genes, while 101 had reduced expression in the double mutant. The full list of genes showing twofold regulation together with P values is given in Supplemental Data Set 2 online. MapMan software (http://mapman.gabipd.org/web/guest/home) was used to examine the functional groups to which these genes belong. Of the 295 genes, 240 belonged to functional groups (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). For a limited number of these functional groups, genes changing in the mutant were enriched compared with the expected number of genes for which we detected expression at the seedling stage. These groups are shown in Figure 12A, and the individual genes with functional groups are given in Supplemental Data Set 3 online. The genes in these groups are important in cell wall formation and modification; resource recycling, including lipid and amino acid metabolism and transport of amino acids, peptides, and sugars; and genes characterized as hormone regulated. In the latter category, there were 16 genes, seven of which are auxin regulated with five showing reduced expression in the double mutant. In addition, four genes, Auxin Response Factor11, Auxin Resistant1, Auxin Resistant3, and Short Hypocotyl2 (SHY2)/Indole-3-acetic acid inducible (IAA3), that, although not designated in this category, are considered to be important in auxin responses, also showed altered expression in Col gtg1 gtg2. Interestingly, MapMan identified only one gene in the hormone functional group that may be involved in ABA regulation: ABF3/DPBF5 (for Abscisic Acid Responsive Elements Binding Factor3), a bZIP transcription factor shown to bind to and activate the DREB2A promoter in an ABRE-dependent manner (CITATION). This gene was downregulated in the Col gtg1 gtg2 double mutant. [[FIGURE]] The reliability of the microarray data was analyzed by selecting 11 genes for further analysis using real-time PCR. A variety of genes was selected that showed a range of expression changes in Col gtg1 gtg2 compared with the wild type in the microarray analysis. As shown in Figure 12B, the real-time PCR results were generally consistent with those obtained from the microarray experiments. SHY2/IAA3 was confirmed as being downregulated, and strong inhibition was also seen for jacalin-related lectin22 (JAL22), one member of a family of genes important in recognition of cell surface carbohydrates and the mobilization and recycling of carbohydrates. Other downregulated genes included Protodermal Factor2 (PDF2), a homeobox gene important in shoot epidermal cell differentiation (CITATION). Upregulated genes included the peptide transporter Peptide Transporter Protein3 (PTR3), genes involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism, Saccharopine Dehydrogenase (LKR) and Glyoxalase I family protein17 (GLY 17), Xyloglucan Endotransglycosylase6 (XTR6), a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase likely to be involved in cell wall synthesis, and WRKY DNA-binding protein25 (WRKY25), a jasmonate- and salicylic acid–regulated transcription factor involved in plant defense responses (CITATION). Given the relative prevalence of auxin-responsive genes identified in the microarray analysis, we investigated the effect of mutations in GTGs on auxin distribution and responses. To test whether auxin distribution was altered in the mutants, the Col gtg1 gtg2 mutant and wild type were transformed with the auxin reporter construct IAA2pro:GUS (CITATION). However, no marked difference in the distribution of staining was observed in the root (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), suggesting that auxin distribution is unaffected in Col gtg1 gtg2. Next, we examined hypocotyl and root growth in wild-type and mutant seedlings treated with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). For roots, this was done in the absence of Suc, a condition in which the mutants are shorter than the wild type. As reported previously, hypocotyl extension and primary root extension are both inhibited by IAA in wild-type seedlings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In both Col and Ws backgrounds, the gtg1 gtg2 double mutants also showed inhibition of hypocotyl and root elongation in response to IAA (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), indicating that the gtg1 gtg2 mutants can still respond to auxin.
!~MM~! Plants were grown in soil containing equal proportions of vermiculite, Levingtons M2, and John Innes No. 2 compost (Fargro) in 8-cm pots in a growth room in 16 h white light (WL) (cool-white fluorescent tubes with a fluence rate of 120 μmol m−2 s−1) at 23°C with an 8-h dark (D) period at 18°C. For growth on media, seeds were surface sterilized with 70% ethanol for 1 min and 10% (v/v) bleach for 10 min, washed five times in sterile distilled water, and plated on growth media plates containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 0.5× MS salt medium (Sigma-Aldrich) unless otherwise specified. Seeds of potential Arabidopsis thaliana mutants gtg1-2, gtg2-2, gtg1-3, and gtg2-3 were originally obtained from the NASC (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk) and the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (France) (http://dbsgap.versailles.inra.fr/publiclines), respectively. Isolation and confirmation of T-DNA insertional mutants was performed following the procedure previously described (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, seeds were grown and selected on kanamycin to obtain homozygous lines. The T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed by PCR using the following cycling parameters: 95°C for 2 min, followed by 35 cycles of 95°C, 30 s; 56°C, 30 s; and 72°C 2 min using Arabidopsis genomic DNA that was prepared using the DNAMITE plant kit (Microzone). The resulting products were sequenced (Geneservice) using a T-DNA left-border primer and gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online). Homozygous lines were crossed to generate two double mutants, gtg1-2 gtg2-2 and gtg1-3 gtg2-3, in the wild-type ecotypes Col and Ws, respectively. The ABA germination assay was performed as previously described (CITATION). Sterilized seeds were plated on 0.5× MS media, 1% (w/v) Suc, and 0.8% (w/v) agar containing final concentrations of 0, 1, 2, 4, and 6 μM ABA (AG Scientific). Following plating, seeds were stratified in the dark at 4°C for 2 d and then transferred into 16 h WL (120 μmol m−2 s−1)/8 h D cycles at 22°C. Germination was scored as the emergence of the radicle at 72 h from 25 seeds per genotype per plate with three technical replicates for each of three biological repeats. For root experiments, sterilized seeds were placed individually on growth media plates containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 0.5× MS salts with modifications for some experiments as specified in results. Plated seeds were placed in D at 4°C for 2 d and then transferred into WL (120 μmol m−2 s−1) for 6 to 14 d at 23°C. For experiments using ABA, the root length assay described previously (CITATION) was used. Sterilized seeds were plated on 0.5× MS with 1% (w/v) Suc and 0.8% (w/v) agar, placed in D at 4°C for 2 d, and then placed vertically into 16 h WL/8 h D cycles at 23°C for 72 h. Seedlings were then transferred to new media containing 0, 10, 20, and 30 μM ABA and grown vertically for a further 10 d. For hypocotyl experiments seeds were sown as above, but transferred from 4°C to WL for 2 h before being placed in D for 5 d or transferred to WL after 22 h D at 23°C. For experiments with low WL, a neutral density filter 211/210 (Led Filters) was used to obtain 10 μmol m−2 s−1. For analysis, photographic images of plates were taken and seedling root and hypocotyl lengths measured using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). The distribution of auxin in the wild type and double mutants was monitored by determining the expression of the IAA2pro:GUS reporter (CITATION). The construct was kindly supplied by M.J. Bennett (Nottingham, UK) and transformed into plants as described later. Pollen was harvested and germinated exactly as previously described (CITATION). For germination assays, pollen tubes were imaged at 2 and 16 h postgermination using a Leica MZ16F dissection microscope (Leica Microsystems). For the in vivo pollen tube assay, pistils were chosen from 2-d-old early stage flowers when the petals had just opened and were prepared for staining by fixation in acetic acid:chloroform:ethanol (10:30:60; v:v:v) for 2 h before being transferred to 4 M NaOH for 10 min and washed three times with 50 mM KPO4 buffer, pH 7.5. The cleared pistils were stained overnight with decolorized 0.1% (w/v) aniline blue solution in 50 mM KPO4 adjusted to pH 10.0 with NaOH. Pistils were then pressed gently between a slide and cover slip and imaged on a Zeiss Axiovert 200 inverted microscope (Carl) with 436/20-nm excitation and 535/30-nm emission band-pass filters. GTG1 and GTG2 were isolated from wild-type Col cDNA generated by RT-PCR from whole seedling RNA or genomic DNA. GTG1 and GTG2 cDNAs were PCR amplified using specific primer pairs: Gate GTG1 F and Gate GTG1 R, and Gate GTG2 P2 F and Gate GTG2 R, respectively (see Supplemental Table 4 online for all primer sequences). The PCR products were TA cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). Genomic sequences were PCR amplified using HiFi Taq (Invitrogen) and gene-specific primers. The 5′ promoter sequences of 1289 bp for GTG1 and 952 bp for GTG2 were amplified using the gene-specific primer pairs GTG1 Pro F1 and GTG1 Pro R, and GTG2 Pro F1 and GTG2 Pro R before TA cloning into pENTR/D-TOPO. Genomic sequences of 6970 bp for GTG1 and 6003 bp for GTG2, including the 5′ promoter, introns, and exons, were amplified using gene-specific primer pairs attB1GTG1 Pro F1 and GTG1 Pro R, and attB1GTG2 Pro F1 and GTG2 Pro R, respectively, and the products were BP cloned into pDONRZeo (Invitrogen). All construct sequences were confirmed by sequencing (Geneservice). Confirmed entry clones were LR recombined into destination vectors as required following the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). cDNA clones were recombined into pMDC32 and pMDC83, while promoter and genomic clones were transferred into pMDC107 (GFP) and pMDC163 (GUS) (CITATION). Promoters of 1289 bp for GTG1 and 952 bp for GTG2 were introduced into pMDC163 to create the GUS reporter constructs GTG1pro:GUS and GTG2pro:GUS, respectively, while 6970 bp of GTG1 and 6003 bp of GTG2 genomic sequence were introduced into pMDC163 to create the GTG1pro:GTG1-GUS and GTG2pro:GTG2-GUS constructs. Hydropathy analysis was conducted according to CITATION (http://gcat.davidson.edu/DGPB/kd/kyte-doolittle.htm). Predicted protein topology was generated using the ConPred_v2 transmembrane domain prediction software (available at http://bioinfo.si.hirosaki-u.ac.jp/∼ConPred2). The evolutionary history was inferred using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION). The bootstrap consensus tree inferred from 1000 replicates is taken to represent the evolutionary history of the taxa analyzed and was generated using MEGA5 (http://www.megasoftware.net/mega.html) (CITATION). Branches corresponding to partitions reproduced in <70% bootstrap replicates are collapsed to give the condensed tree. The multiple sequence alignment was made with the ClustalW module within MEGA5 using default parameters:gap opening penalty = 11; gap extension penalty = 1; protein weight matrix = BLOSUM with residue specific and hydrophylic penalties; gap separation distance = 5, and a 30% delay divergent cutoff. The sequences and alignment used to generate the tree are available as Supplemental Data Set 1 online. Stable transformation of Arabidopsis was performed as previously described (CITATION) using the floral dipping method (CITATION) and with the appropriate selection. Homozygous T3 plants were used for analysis. For tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) transient transformation, Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 containing GTG1 and GTG2 cDNA clones in pMDC83 were used with tobacco leaf cells as described previously (CITATION). GTG1 and GTG2 cDNAs were cloned into mGFP pART7 and transfected into protoplasts using the method of CITATION. To determine localization of GFP signal in protoplasts, a Leica confocal microscope was used (Leica TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems). Approximately 50 gtg1-2 gtg2-2 mutant and wild-type Col seedlings were grown on 0.5× MS for 6 d. Total RNA was isolated from ∼300 mg of Arabidopsis seedling tissue for the mutant and wild type as described previously (CITATION). Affymetrix chip analysis was performed through the NASC using the Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array. Three biological repeats were performed. Expression signal values were generated for each chip, and these were normalized using signal values for control probes contained in each chip by NASC (CITATION). Chip data for a pair (a wild type and a mutant) were considered as one repeat. If probe signal values for both the wild type and mutant samples fell to <50 in at least two out of three repeats, then these data were not considered for analysis and removed. Genes exhibiting twofold or more enhanced or reduced expression over the three repeats (P ≤ 0.1) were considered for further analysis using MapMan software (http://mapman.gabipd.org/web/guest/home). First-strand synthesis used 0.5 or 1 μg total RNA, which was reverse transcribed using the SuperScript system (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT) primer according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Standard 20-μL PCR reactions were performed using BioMix Red (Bioline), forward (F) and reverse (R) primers with 1 μL of first-strand synthesis cDNA. Reactions were incubated at 95°C for 5 min followed by either 27, 30, or 33 cycles of 95°C for 30s, 56°C for 30s, and 72°C for 90s with a final 72°C extension step of 5 min in a PTC-200 Peltier Thermal Cycler (MJ Research). Real-time PCR was performed as described previously in a 96-well plate using 0.25 μL cDNA per 10 μL reaction (CITATION). SYBR Green (Finnzymes) was used to monitor cDNA amplification with an Opticon DNA Engine Continuous Fluorescence Detector (GRI Ltd.). Specific F and R primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) were designed to quantify expression of each gene. PCR was performed at 95°C for 10 min followed by 35 cycles of 95°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min. All data were standardized by normalizing to Yellow-Leaf-Specific gene8 (YLS8) or Actin2 expression and analyzed using Opticon software. For experiments on ABA-induced gene expression, seedlings were grown and treated with 50 μM ABA (AG Scientific) (or mock solvent control) as previously described (CITATION). RNA isolation and real-time RT-PCR conditions and primers for ABA experiments were also exactly as previously described (CITATION). Plant tissue images were made using a Leica MZ16F dissecting microscope and digital images taken using a Canon Powershot S80. For light microscopy of tissue sections, seedlings were fixed as described previously (CITATION). Sections (0.5 µm) were cut on a Leica OMU 3 ultramicrotome and stained with 1% (w/v) toluidine blue in 1% borax and imaged using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 microscope (Carl Zeiss) with a Nikon Coolpix 4500 digital camera. Localization of GFP in transiently and stably transformed plant tissue was done using either a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) or a Zeiss LSM 510 META confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). GFP excitation was with the 488-nm line of an argon ion laser, and emission was detected between 505 and 530 nm. ST-mRFP localization was done by excitation of mRFP using the 543 line of a HeNe laser, and emission was detected between 560 and 615 nm. Arabidopsis tissue containing GTGpro:GUS and GTGpro:GTG-GUS were immersed in GUS staining solution (40 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 10 mM Na2EDTA, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, and 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100) and incubated at 37°C for 3 h or overnight. Samples were treated with 70% (v/v) ethanol to remove chlorophyll and examined using a Leica MZ16F dissection microscope (Leica Microsystems). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: GTG1 (HM776216, At1g64990); GTG2 (HM776217, At4g27630); RT-PCR control genes: 40S rRNA (At5g18380) and YLS8 (At5g08290). Genes analyzed in Figure 12B are as follows: GLY17 (At1g15380), LKR (At4g33150), XTR6 At4g25810, PTR3 (At5g46050), WRKY25 (At2g30250), PDF2 (At4g04890), SHY2 (At1g04240), TOE2 (At5g60120), EXPA8 (At2g40610), JAL22 (At2g39310), and THI2.2 (At5g36910).See Supplemental Table 2 online for the accession numbers of the proteins used in the phylogenetic analysis in Figure 1B. T-DNA insertion mutants are as follows: gtg1-2 (SALK_128150), gtg1-3 (FLAG_055FO1), gtg2-2 (SALK_055330), and gtg2-3 (FLAG_586C01). The raw microarray data are available at http://affymetrix.Arabidopsis.info/narrays/experimentpage.pl?experimentid=477. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Alignment of At GTG1 from Arabidopsis and GTG/GPHRs from Neurospora crassa and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Supplemental Figure 2. Isolation of T-DNA Insertional Mutants for GTG1 and GTG2 in Ws Background. Supplemental Figure 3. gtg1-3 gtg2-3 Mutants Exhibit Cellular Distortion. Supplemental Figure 4. Localization of GFP-Tagged GTG1 and GTG2 at the Periphery and in the Interior of Mesophyll Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 5. Functional Groups for Genes Expressed and for Those Changing in the Mutant. Supplemental Figure 6. Auxin Distribution and Responses in gtg1 gtg2 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 7. Localization of GTG1-GFP in Arabidopsis and Tobacco. Supplemental Table 1. Species and Relatedness of Identified GTG Proteins to GTG1 (AAL49849). Supplemental Table 2. The GenBank Accession Numbers of the Proteins Used in the Phylogenetic Analysis. Supplemental Table 3. Predicted Protein Structure. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 5. Crosses between the Wild Type and gtg1 gtg2 Double Mutant Were Made to Observe Pollen Tube Extension in Vivo. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Alignment Used for the Phylogenetic Analysis in Figure 1B. Supplemental Data Set 2. Genes Showing Twofold Up- and Downregulation (P < 0.1) in gtg1 gtg2 Mutant Seedlings Grown for 6d in White Light Compared with the Wild Type. Supplemental Data Set 3. Genes Belonging to Functional Groups That Have a Significantly Higher Percentage of Genes Changing in the Mutant. Supplemental Movie 1. Expression of GTG1pro:GTG1-GFP in Arabidopsis Root Tip Cells Showing Golgi Localization. Supplemental Movie 2. Transient Expression of 35Spro:GTG1-GFP in Tobacco Leaf Cells Showing Golgi Localization.
