!~ABS~! After transcription, mRNA editing in angiosperm chloroplasts and mitochondria results in the conversion of cytidine to uridine by deamination. Analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana mutants affected in RNA editing have shown that many pentatricopeptide repeat proteins (PPRs) are required for specific cytidine deamination events. PPR proteins have been shown to be sequence-specific RNA binding proteins allowing the recognition of the C to be edited. The C-terminal DYW domain present in many editing factors has been proposed to catalyze C deamination, as it shows sequence similarities with cytidine deaminases in other organisms. However, many editing factors, such as the first to be discovered, CHLORORESPIRATORY REDUCTION4 (CRR4), lack this domain, so its importance has been unclear. Using a reverse genetic approach, we identified DYW1, an RNA editing factor acting specifically on the plastid ndhD-1 editing site recognized by CRR4. Unlike other known editing factors, DYW1 contains no identifiable PPR motifs but does contain a clear DYW domain. We were able to show interaction between CRR4 and DYW1 by bimolecular fluorescence complementation and to reconstitute a functional chimeric CRR4-DYW1 protein complementing the crr4 dyw1double mutant. We propose that CRR4 and DYW1 act together to edit the ndhD-1 site.
!~RES~! The At1g47580 gene (that we have named DYW1) attracted our attention because it encodes a protein unique in Arabidopsis with a clear DYW domain, characteristic of the PLS-DYW subgroup, but lacking any identifiable PPR motifs. The intronless At1g47580 locus consists of a 717-bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a putative 239–amino acid protein. This protein is composed of a 110–amino acid region with weak similarity to PPR proteins and a 95–amino acid C-terminal DYW domain (Figure 1A). About 90 Arabidopsis proteins carry a DYW domain at the C terminus, but DYW1 is the only one with no identifiable PPR, E, or E+ motifs. By contrast, its DYW domain is highly conserved and is close to the DYW domain consensus (Figure 1A). This implies that this domain is under strong selection and that DYW1 is not simply a degenerating pseudogene. Two putatively full-length GSLT (GenoScope/LifeTechnologies) cDNAs that correspond to the At1g47580 model have been described (CITATION). Both cDNAs start just after the ATG codon of the AGI model (named hereafter ATG1), indicating that the ATG codon at position +24 (ATG2) is likely to be the translation start used in the plant cell. [[FIGURE]] Two apparent insertion mutants in the At1g47580 locus are listed in the T-DNA Express database of the Salk Institute (CITATION). After sequence verification of the insertions, we found that the T-DNA in Salk_012425 is inserted 97 bp upstream of the ATG2 codon, whereas the T-DNA in Salk_123655 is inserted ∼150 bp downstream of the ORF. As neither insertion disrupts the DYW1 ORF, we requested a screen for ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced mutations in the At1g47580 locus from the Seattle Arabidopsis TILLING Project (CITATION; http://tilling.fhcrc.org/). Forty-three different mutations across the 1500-bp locus were obtained. Among them, 19 were in noncoding regions, eight were in the ORF but did not change the protein sequence, and 16 mutations (dyw1-1 to dyw1-16) did alter the predicted protein sequence (Figure 1; see Supplemental Table 1 online). One of these, the dyw1-1 mutation, was a deletion of a guanidine at the position + 262 (after ATG2) and caused a frameshift in the ORF. The putative 118–amino acid protein encoded by this allele would be identical to the wild-type protein for the first 87 amino acids, then differ with a premature stop codon 31 amino acids after the mutation (Figure 1B). In particular, this truncated protein would completely lack the DYW domain. This mutant and the other alleles were backcrossed three times to Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0) to segregate other EMS-induced mutations. Homozygous mutant plants were identified after self-pollination of heterozygous plants obtained after backcrossing. All of them exhibited a macroscopic phenotype identical to wild-type Col-0 plants, as shown for homozygous dyw1-1 mutants (Figure 1C). Using either ATG1 or ATG2 (encoding M1 and M2, respectively) as the start of the protein coding sequence, both TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATION) and Predotar (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/predotar/predotar.html; CITATION) predict that the DYW1 protein is targeted to chloroplasts. The cleavage site is predicted to be after the 27th amino acid (counting from M2) leading to a protein of 22.8 kD after cleavage. To test this localization prediction, two fusion proteins were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis plantlets. The sequences encoding the first 108 or 100 amino acids of the protein (starting from M1 and M2, respectively) were fused in frame upstream of the red fluorescent protein (RFP) coding sequence. Expression of the M1 fusion protein did not lead to detectable fluorescence. By contrast, expression of the M2 fusion protein led to RFP-specific fluorescence signals in plastids (Figure 2A). This observation was further confirmed by expression of the full-length M2 protein fused to RFP (Figure 2A). The emission spectrum of RFP was confirmed for these signals and they were shown to colocalize with chlorophyll autofluorescence (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] A polyclonal antibody directed against DYW1 was used to detect the protein in subcellular fractions. Figure 2B shows that an ∼25-kD signal was observed in a total extract of leaf proteins of Arabidopsis and strongly increased in a subcellular fraction enriched in chloroplasts. By contrast, this signal was not observed in a mitochondrial protein extract. Both the transient expression of RFP fusions and the analysis of subcellular fractions by immunoblot using a DYW1-specific antibody confirmed the bioinformatics predictions that the DYW1 protein is targeted to plastids. Most DYW proteins investigated to date have been shown to be involved in RNA editing (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), so we screened all 34 known chloroplast editing sites (CITATION) in dyw1-1 by sequencing of RT-PCR products surrounding these sites. Among the 34 sites, a very strong defect was observed at the first editing site of the ndhD transcript (Figure 3A). None of the other sites were affected in the mutant (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). A complete lack of editing of ndhD-1 was confirmed by a quantitative and very sensitive poisoned primer extension (PPE) assay (Figure 3B). The editing of the ndhD-1 site was also characterized by RT-PCR product sequencing in the other 15 dyw1-x alleles. A defect in three lines (dyw1-11, dyw1-12, and dyw1-16) was observed with a reduction of 25 to 40% when compared with Col-0 (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the editing defect observed in dyw1-1 was a consequence of the frameshift in DYW1, the mutant was complemented with a 1502-bp genomic fragment comprising a region of 357 bp before ATG2, the DYW1 ORF (717 bp) and 428 bp downstream. After Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation of dyw1-1 with this construct, two complemented lines were shown to be restored in the editing of ndhD-1 by the PPE assay (Figures 3A and 3B). This complementation experiment and the defects observed in weaker alleles demonstrated that the abolition of ndhD-1 editing, shown by sequencing and PPE, is due to the frameshift in DYW1. To examine whether the loss of editing was a secondary effect of altered RNA processing or RNA stability, the ndhD transcript was analyzed by RNA gel blot analysis of the dyw1-1 mutant compared with the wild type. No variation in the pattern or level of the monocistronic (mature ndhD RNA) or polycistronic (precursor form of ndhD RNA) transcripts was observed (Figure 3C). This result supports a specific and direct role of DYW1 in the editing of the ndhD-1 site. The ndhD-1 site is partially edited in the wild-type plant (Figures 3A and 3B, Col-0), and editing at this site converts a Thr codon (ACG) into a Met codon (AUG) that is the ndhD putative translation initiation codon. The chloroplast NDH complex catalyzes electron donation probably from ferredoxin to plastoquinone (CITATION). When NDH activity is present, a transient increase of chlorophyll fluorescence can be observed when actinic light (AL) is switched off (CITATION). We analyzed this change of fluorescence to examine whether or not the NDH complex was affected in dyw1-1. Unlike the Col-0 control, the mutant showed no transient increase in fluorescence after the AL was turned off (Figure 4A). This defect was reverted in the complemented transgenic plants (Figure 4A). Immunoblot analysis using an antibody against NdhH showed a decrease in the level of the NDH complex in dyw1-1 (Figure 4B). The editing site impaired in the dyw1-1 mutant is exactly the same site that has been shown to be unedited in crr4 mutants (CITATION). To perform a fine comparison of the crr4 and dyw1-1 mutants, crr4-3 (encoding a truncated CRR4 protein) and dyw1-1 mutants were grown and characterized in parallel. The primary molecular defect (absence of editing of the ndhD-1 site), the resulting lack of NDH activity (Figure 4A), the decreases in the level of NDH complex (Figure 4B), and the macroscopic phenotypes of adult plants compared with the wild type (Figure 1C; CITATION) were identical in dyw1-1 and crr4-3. [[FIGURE]] The dyw1-1 and crr4 mutants are indistinguishable by phenotype, indicating that the DYW1 and CRR4 proteins have essential roles in the same process. However, the common phenotype also indicates that CRR4 is not able to complement the DYW1 function in the dyw1 background, and, equally, DYW1 is not able to complement the CRR4 function in the crr4 background. This observation could suggest that the DYW1 protein interacts with the CRR4 protein to form a protein complex that functions in ndhD-1 editing. To test this hypothesis, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays (CITATION) to visualize any interaction between CRR4 and DYW1 in planta. In these experiments, one protein is fused to the N-terminal half of the yellow fluorescent protein (nYFP) and the potential partner is fused to the C-terminal half of YFP (cYFP). Arabidopsis plantlets were transiently cotransformed with pairs of plasmids encoding YFP fusions (Table 1). Because each half of the YFP is not intrinsically fluorescent, YFP fluorescence is observed only when intermolecular interactions occur between nYFP- and cYFP-tagged proteins (CITATION; CITATION). The emission spectrum of YFP was confirmed for each positive interaction (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The results presented in Table 1 and Figure 5 show a positive interaction between CRR4-cYFP and DYW1-nYFP fusion proteins that was not observed when the opposite interaction (CRR4-nYFP X DYW1-cYFP) was assayed. Furthermore, no BiFC signal was observed for coexpressed DYW1-cYFP and DYW1-nYFP, suggesting that DYW1 does not dimerize, unlike known cytidine deaminases (CITATION). To test the specificity of the interaction between DYW1 and CRR4, we tested the interaction between DYW1-nYFP and CLB19-cYFP. CLB19 is a plastid PLS-E protein necessary for the editing of clpP and rpoA sites (CITATION) and functionally and structurally very similar to CRR4. CLB19 did not interact with DYW1 in this assay as shown by the absence of YFP fluorescence in plant cells (Figure 5). In addition, several negative controls testing for interactions between either DYW1-nYFP or CRR4-cYFP and unrelated proteins that have been shown to interact in plastids using BiFC were tested: MinD1 × MinD1 (CITATION) and FSD2 × FSD3 (CITATION). The consistent lack of YFP fluorescence in these control cells (Figure 5, Table 1) supports that the fluorescence observed in the BiFC assays resulted from a specific CRR4–DYW1 interaction. [[FIGURE]] Approximately 50% of the editing factors identified so far contain the E, E+, and DYW motifs as defined by CITATION, whereas the other 50% lack these C-terminal domains to varying degrees. CRR4 lacks a DYW domain and the 14 C-terminal amino acids of the E+ motif. Interestingly, DYW1 contains not only a complete DYW domain, but also the C-terminal segment of the E+ motif (Figure 6). Thus, a complex of CRR4 and DYW1 would reconstitute all of the amino acid motifs found in full-length editing factors, such as CRR22 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To test this model, we crossed the crr4-3 mutant with the dyw1-1 mutant to obtain a homozygous double mutant and then attempted to complement it with a chimeric construct consisting of the CRR4 PPR and E-E+ domains and the DYW1 E+-DYW domain (Figure 7). As one would expect, the double mutant completely lacks ndhD-1 editing. Eight lines complemented with the chimeric construct were tested and all were shown to be restored for the editing of ndhD-1 by cDNA sequencing (Figure 7). Seven of the eight plants tested showed a higher proportion of edited transcripts (more than 80%) than the wild type. Thus, a fusion of CRR4-DYW1 is functional, further evidence in favor of interaction between these two proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The complete list of oligonucleotides used in this study is summarized in Supplemental Table 3 online. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was used in this study. Seeds were surface sterilized, vernalized at 4°C for 3 d, and grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog media containing 3% Suc in vitro. Plates were placed in growth chambers under 16 h light/8 h dark, at 25°C, and with 45% humidity. Two-week-old seedlings were transferred onto soil and grown under 16 h light/8 h dark at 21°C and 65% humidity. A screening for EMS-induced mutations was ordered at the Seattle Arabidopsis TILLING Project (CITATION; http://tilling.fhcrc.org/) using two specific primers (TILING _LP and TILLING_RP) surrounding a 1509-bp region containing the At1g47580 locus. The identified EMS lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (see Supplemental Table 1 online). EMS mutants were backcrossed three times to Col-0 ecotype. EMS lines were genotyped by amplification of a 1502-bp product using DYW1_compF and DYW1_compR primers and sequencing using DYW1_genF and DYW1_genR primers. The crr4-3 mutant was provided by Toshiharu Shikanai (CITATION). For complementation analysis, the complete DYW1 locus with its native promoter and terminator was amplified by PCR using DYW1_compF and DYW1_compR primers on genomic Arabidopsis Col-0 DNA, cloned into the pDNR207 vector by Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen), and subcloned into pGWB1 vector (CITATION) by LR reaction. For the double mutant, CRR4 was amplified with CRR4_ATG_F and CRR4-DYW1_R and DYW1 was amplified with CRR4-DYW1_F and DYW1_STOP_R on Arabidopsis Col-0 genomic DNA. The fusion was achieved by pooling the purified PCR products and amplifying by PCR with CRR4_ATG_F and DYW1_STOP_R. The fusion product was cloned into the pDNR207 vector by Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen) and subcloned into pGWB2. The DYW1 coding region without its presequence was amplified using DYW1_internal and DYW1_stop primers and cloned into the pDNR207 vector by Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). LR recombination was done with the pDEST 17 destination vector (Invitrogen) allowing an N-terminal fusion with a 6His tag. Proteins were expressed for 5 h at 37°C in salt- inducible BL21-SI Escherichia coli induced with 0.3 M NaCl and purified by affinity to nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose in denaturing conditions according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Qiagen). Purified DYW1 protein was used to immunize rabbits to produce polyclonal antibodies (Eurogentec). The full-length ORF or the 300 bp encoding the first 100 amino acids of DYW1 were amplified using DYW1_start, DYW1_end, and DYW1_preseq primers and subsequently cloned into the pDNR207 vector by BP reaction. The LR recombination was done with the pGreen 0229 destination vector containing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) or RFP gene (CITATION). C58C1 pSOUP Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformed with these binary plasmids was used for Arabidopsis transformation (CITATION). Plantlets were observed 3 d after transformation by confocal microscopy (Leica SP2 AOBS 405) allowing the detection of GFP (excitation/emission 488/509nm, filter BP500/550), RFP (excitation/emission 543/583nm, filter BP580/620), and autofluorescence (excitation/emission 543/680nm, filter BP580/620). For immunoblot analysis, Arabidopsis chloroplast and mitochondrial protein extracts were prepared as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Proteins were separated in 12.5% SDS-PAGE gel, transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane by electrotransfer, and incubated with the DYW1-specific antibody diluted in TBS-T (1/5000), the formate dehydrogenase–specific antibody (1/6000 in TBS-T) (CITATION), or the chloroplast large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase–specific antibody (1/20,000 in TBS-T) (supplied by Spencer Whitney, Australian National University). After incubation with the anti-rabbit IgG antibody (1/10,000 in TBS-T), immunoblots were analyzed using the ECL Western Blotting Analysis System reaction kit (GE Healthcare) and visualized with LAS-1000 (Fujifilm). RNA from leaves of 18-d-old plantlets was extracted with the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). RNA was treated twice with DNase I (2 units/µL; Ambion) for 30 min at 37°C, and cDNA was synthesized using Superscript II (Invitrogen). RT-PCR products were obtained with NdhD_AT_For and NdhD_AT_rev primers surrounding the NdhD-1 editing site (117,166) and used as template for sequencing using the NdhD_AT_For primer. Poisoned primer extension of RT-PCR products was performed as described by CITATION. RT-PCR products were obtained with NdhD_AT_For and NdhD_AT_rev primers and serve as templates for the extension reaction from 5 - Carboxyfluorescein-labeled ndhD_PPE_C primer purified on reverse phase cartridge (Sigma Genosys) that anneals next to the editing site. The extension was stopped by the incorporation of 2′,3′-dideoxycytidine-5′-triphosphate at the location of the editing site for unedited molecules, producing a short unedited product. The extension was stopped at the next G/C for the edited molecules, producing a longer edited product. The ndhD RNA probe was labeled with biotinylated cytidine by in vitro transcription of a PCR product obtained and cloned in pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega) as described by CITATION. The PCR product served as a template for in vitro transcription with SP6 polymerase following the manufacturer’s instructions (Maxiscript Ambion). Ten micrograms of total RNA extracted from leaves of 14- and 28-d-old plantlets RNA (RNeasy plant mini kit; Qiagen) were separated on 1.2% (w/v) formaldehyde agarose gel and transferred onto Hybond N+ nylon membranes (GE Healthcare). After transfer, the membrane was stained with 0.04% methylene blue to check RNA integrity, loading, and transfer and subsequently hybridized with the biotinylated ndhD antisense RNA probe according to CITATION. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a MINI-PAM portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Waltz). The transient increase in chlorophyll fluorescence after turning off AL was monitored as previously described (CITATION). Leaves were exposed to AL (50 µmol photons m−2 s−1) for 5 min. AL was turned off and the subsequent transient rise in fluorescence ascribed to NDH activity was monitored by chlorophyll fluorimetry. The full-length ORFs of DYW1, CRR4, CLB19, FSD2, FSD3, and MinD1 were amplified without their stop codon using corresponding ORF_start and ORF_end primers and cloned into the pDNR207 vector. LR recombinations were done with split-YFP destination vectors. pBiFC1 and pBiFC4, coding for the N- and C-terminal YFP moieties, respectively, cloned at the 3′ end (C-terminal fusions) of the Gateway recombination sequence, were used (CITATION). C58C1 Agrobacterium pCH32 containing these vectors was used to transform 15 to 20 seedlings of Landsberg erecta Arabidopsis seedlings grown in six-well plates as described previously (CITATION). Cotyledons of transformed seedlings were observed 3 to 4 d after transformation using a confocal microscope (Leica SP2 AOBS diode 405 with two filters: GFP [band-pass], excitation filter band-pass 450 to 490, stop filter band-pass 500 to 550; I3 [long pass], excitation filter band-pass 450 to 490, stop filter band-pass 515). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: AT1G47580 (DYW1), AT2G45350 (CRR4), ATCG01050 (NDHD), AT5G24020 (MIND1), AT5G51100 (FSD2), AT5G23310 (FSD3), and AT1G11290 (CRR22). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Analysis of the Editotype of the dyw1-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 2. Analysis of the Editing Rate of the ndhD-1 Site in dyw1-x Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Fluorescence Emission Spectral Analysis of DYW1-nYFP X CRR4-cYFP BiFC Signals. Supplemental Figure 4. Alignment of CRR4 Orthologs. Supplemental Figure 5. Alignment of DYW1 Orthologs. Supplemental Table 1. Complete List of EMS Mutations Identified in the DYW1 Locus by the TILLING Approach. Supplemental Table 2. DYW1 Orthologs. Supplemental Table 3. Complete List of Oligonucleotides Used in This Study.
