!~ABS~! Like many other viruses, Tobacco mosaic virus replicates in association with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and exploits this membrane network for intercellular spread through plasmodesmata (PD), a process depending on virus-encoded movement protein (MP). The movement process involves interactions of MP with the ER and the cytoskeleton as well as its targeting to PD. Later in the infection cycle, the MP further accumulates and localizes to ER-associated inclusions, the viral factories, and along microtubules before it is finally degraded. Although these patterns of MP accumulation have been described in great detail, the underlying mechanisms that control MP fate and function during infection are not known. Here, we identify CELL-DIVISION-CYCLE protein48 (CDC48), a conserved chaperone controlling protein fate in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and animal cells by extracting protein substrates from membranes or complexes, as a cellular factor regulating MP accumulation patterns in plant cells. We demonstrate that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CDC48 is induced upon infection, interacts with MP in ER inclusions dependent on the MP N terminus, and promotes degradation of the protein. We further provide evidence that CDC48 extracts MP from ER inclusions to the cytosol, where it subsequently accumulates on and stabilizes microtubules. We show that virus movement is impaired upon overexpression of CDC48, suggesting that CDC48 further functions in controlling virus movement by removal of MP from the ER transport pathway and by promoting interference of MP with microtubule dynamics. CDC48 acts also in response to other proteins expressed in the ER, thus suggesting a general role of CDC48 in ER membrane maintenance upon ER stress.
!~RES~! First evidence for a role of CDC48 during TMV infection came from pull-down experiments using recombinant MPTMV:His6 and tobacco BY2 suspension cell extract (CITATION), in which we identified a putative tobacco CDC48 (National Center for Biotechnology Information [NCBI] accession no. 98962497) specifically retained by MPTMV:His6 (Supplemental Table S1). Studies in yeast and mammals have shown that CDC48 plays a role in the retrotranslocation of proteins from the ER to the cytosol during ER-assisted protein degradation (ERAD; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although CDC48 function in plants is much less understood, there is evidence that a CDC48-dependent, ERAD-like pathway for the degradation of misfolded ER proteins also exists in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As TMV and related tobamoviruses replicate in association with the ER and infection leads to the formation of ER-associated inclusions that accumulate MP in advance of MP degradation, we suspected that CDC48 activity might play a role in regulating MP fate. To test this further, we first analyzed the expression of the three different Arabidopsis CDC48 isoforms during infection with the TMV-related Oilseed rape mosaic virus (ORMV). In contrast to TMV, ORMV readily infects Arabidopsis and induces strong disease symptoms in this host (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, CDC48B (At3g53230) was strongly induced in Arabidopsis plants undergoing systemic infection (Fig. 1A). CDC48B was induced at two tested time points after virus inoculation (7 d post inoculation [dpi] and 14 dpi), whereas the more highly expressed CDC48A (At3g09840) gene (Supplemental Fig. S2) was only moderately induced and CDC48C (At5g03340) transcript levels remained largely constant at both time points. The virus-induced induction of CDC48B is in agreement with our independent microarray analysis of transcript levels upon ORMV infection (CITATION; Supplemental Table S2) and other publicly available microarray data describing CDC48 transcript levels in the presence of different environmental stresses (https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/index.jsp and http://www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress/), indicating that CDC48B represents the main stress-responsive CDC48 isoform in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Virus infection has been shown to induce ER stress and the expression of ER-resident chaperones to enhance the protein folding capacity in the ER (CITATION; CITATION). To verify whether also tobamoviruses induce ER stress, we analyzed the expression levels of the ER luminal chaperones BINDING PROTEIN3 (BIP3) and CALRETICULIN-2 (CRT) in Arabidopsis plants systemically infected with ORMV. Indeed, in virus-infected compared with mock-inoculated samples, expression of both chaperones was induced 8.0 ± 5.4-fold and 10.5 ± 7.4-fold, respectively (Fig. 1B). Comparison of expression levels of ER stress-responsive chaperones, lectins, and transcription factors in biologically independent Arabidopsis transcriptome data of ORMV-infected and mock-inoculated plants (CITATION) further validated this finding (Supplemental Table S2) and thus indicated the induction of ER stress and enhanced protein quality surveillance in virus-infected tissues. The observed induction of CDC48B may thus be linked to the induction of ER stress in virus-infected tissues. To address a general role of CDC48B in relation to ER stress in vivo, we expressed the protein in fusion to GFP or red fluorescent protein (RFP) and analyzed its subcellular localization in Nicotiana benthamiana epidermal cells by confocal fluorescence microscopy. We found the protein localized in the cytosol, at the nuclear envelope, and in the nucleoplasm (Fig. 2A). When the protein was fused to fluorescent proteins at its N terminus, the subcellular localization was similar to that of the C-terminally fused protein except that the nucleocytoplasmic localization was weaker. In the cortical cytoplasm, the protein showed a clear localization adjacent to the ER labeled with the coexpressed ER marker GFP:HDEL (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Movie S1). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, differences in ER structure were observed when GFP:HDEL was expressed together with specific CDC48B mutants (CITATION; CITATION) in which either the minor ATPase domain (CDC48BE308Q, also referred to as CDC48QE:RFP), the major ATPase domain (CDC48BE581Q, also referred to as CDC48EQ:RFP), or both ATPase domains (CDC48QQ:RFP) were mutated. Whereas expression of CDC48BQE:RFP had no effect on the GFP:HDEL-labeled ER network (Fig. 2C), expression of CDC48BEQ:RFP or of CDC48BQQ:RFP resulted in an extensively modified ER network (Fig. 2, D and E; Supplemental Movie S2). Similar results were obtained when we used RFP:HDEL as ER marker or when N-terminal fluorescent protein fusions to wild-type or mutant CDC48B were used (data not shown). Interestingly, the dominant effects of CDC48EQ:RFP and CDC48BQQ:RFP on ER structure were seen only when the ER marker GFP:HDEL was transiently expressed. When we used the GFP:HDEL transgenic line 16c (CITATION), this effect was not observed (Supplemental Fig. S3). This suggests a critical role of CDC48B function in the maintenance of the ER network upon sudden ER stress, such as caused by strong, transient overexpression of the ER marker. If the altered ER phenotype observed in the presence of CDC48BQQ:RFP was due to transient overaccumulation of misfolded protein in the ER, the effect should be alleviated by coexpression of ER chaperones that maintain ER proteins in the quality control cycle (CITATION). Indeed, transient expression of CALNEXIN (CNX-2:GFP; At5g07340) instead of GFP:HDEL as ER marker revealed an intact ER network upon coexpression with CDC48BQQ:RFP (Supplemental Fig. S3). Moreover, expression of CNX-2:GFP weakened the effect of CDC48BQQ:RFP on the ER structure in the presence of the transiently expressed ER marker RFP:HDEL (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] The accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER upon transient expression of GFP:HDEL was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR experiments, which revealed a strong induction of genes encoding the N. benthamiana ER luminal stress marker proteins BLP4 (the ER-luminal BINDING PROTEIN [BIP]; CITATION) and CRT (Fig. 4). Compared with transient expression of GFP as control, these genes were also induced upon ectopic expression of the dominant-negative CDC48BQQ:GFP protein. Importantly, the ER stress markers were not induced upon expression of CDC48B:GFP or CNX-2:GFP compared with the GFP-expressing control. As expected, the markers were also not significantly induced in transgenic GFP:HDEL-expressing plants (16c) compared with the wild type (data not shown). We also tested whether ER stress causes induction of CDC48 in N. benthamiana. Transient expression of GFP:HDEL and Arabidopsis CDC48BQQ:GFP in N. benthamiana leaves induced expression of NbCDC48 compared with the GFP-expressing control, while transiently expressed CNX-2:GFP and Arabidopsis CDC48B:GFP did not (Fig. 4). NbCDC48 was also not significantly induced in 16c plants compared with the wild type (data not shown). Collectively, these findings indicate that plant CDC48 proteins function in alleviating ER stress and maintaining a native ER structure in the presence of accumulated, misfolded ER proteins. [[FIGURE]] To alleviate ER stress, the misfolded proteins are usually removed from the ER via ERAD (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, CDC48B could be induced during virus infection to support the retrotranslocation of ER-associated, misfolded viral proteins to the cytoplasm. As mentioned above, TMV MP accumulates in ER-associated, proteinaceous inclusions during late infection (CITATION) as well as when ectopically expressed (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). Since recombinant MPHis-6 interacted with a putative tobacco CDC48 in vitro (Supplemental Table S1), we surmised that the ER-accumulated MP may represent a substrate for CDC48-mediated retrotranslocation. To test a potential role of CDC48 in relation to MP in ER inclusions, we expressed CDC48B:GFP in N. benthamiana leaves carrying infection sites of a TMV derivative expressing a functional MPTMV:RFP fusion protein (TMV-MP:RFP). Interestingly, CDC48B:GFP colocalized with MPTMV:RFP in ER-associated inclusions but not with MP:RFP localized at PD or along microtubules (Fig. 5A). Colocalization of CDC48B:GFP to MPTMV:RFP at inclusions was also observed when MPTMV:RFP was expressed in the absence of virus infection (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] To test whether CDC48B and MP undergo direct protein-protein interactions, we used fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) to investigate the efficiency of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the GFP and RFP moieties of the CDC48B:GFP and MPTMV:RFP proteins ectopically expressed in N. benthamiana and colocalizing in MP inclusions. Compared with CDC48B:GFP when expressed alone and localizing to the cytosol or nucleus (Fig. 6A), the protein exhibited a reduced GFP fluorescence lifetime when expressed with MPTMV:RFP and colocalizing with MPTMV:RFP in the ER inclusions (Fig. 6B, arrow). The observed reduction in fluorescence lifetime represents a FRET efficiency of 14.4%, which is strongly indicative for molecular protein-protein interactions (CITATION; Table I). A comparable reduction in GFP fluorescence lifetime and representing a FRET efficiency of 11.7% was observed when we expressed CDC48B:GFP together with MPORMV:RFP (Table I; Fig. 6, A and C). Thus, CDC48B appears to interact with the MPs of both TMV and ORMV, although the two proteins share only 63% amino acid similarity. Interestingly, no significant FRET values were obtained when amino acids at positions 2 to 5 or 2 to 30 were deleted from MPTMV (MPTMVΔN5:RFP and MPTMVΔN30:RFP, respectively; Table I; Fig. 6, D and E), suggesting that the interaction requires the N terminus of MPTMV. No significant change in GFP fluorescence lifetime and, thus, no significant FRET was observed when MPTMV:RFP was coexpressed with CDC48B carrying the fusion to RFP at its N terminus rather than at its C terminus (Fig. 6, F and G; Table I), indicating that interaction might require a free CDC48B N terminus. To further confirm the interaction between MP and CDC48B as indicated by FLIM-FRET, we performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments with protein extracts of N. benthamiana leaf samples in which we expressed MPTMV:RFP alone or together with CDC48B:GFP. As is shown in Figure 6H, MPTMV:RFP precipitated with CDC48B:GFP using anti-GFP antibodies (Fig. 6H, lane 7) but did not precipitate with anti-GFP antibodies in the absence of CDC48B:GFP (lane 3). MP:RFP did also not precipitate when expressed together with CDC48B:GFP, but normal rabbit serum was used for immunoprecipitation (lane 4). However, anti-MP antibodies precipitated MP under these conditions (lane 6). Using RFP-Trap, we further confirmed that the interaction between MP:RFP and CDC48B:GFP is specific and depends on the MP N terminus and on a free CDC48B N terminus (Supplemental Fig. S4). [[FIGURE]] FRET between transiently expressed proteins was determined by FLIM. Lifetimes are mean values of independent measurements in different cells ± sd. FRET percentage was calculated according to the formula: 1 − τ (donor + acceptor)/τ(donor). τ, Fluorescence lifetime; n, number of measurements. The interaction between CDC48B and MP in ER-associated inclusions suggests that CDC48B may be involved in ER-associated degradation of MP. Since the MP accumulates in ER inclusions during late infection stages, this process may lead to removal of misfolded, accumulated MP, recovery of a native ER structure, and reduction of ER stress. To investigate whether interaction of MP with CDC48 results in degradation of MP, we analyzed the effect of CDC48B:GFP or CDC48BQQ:GFP on the levels of MPTMV:RFP in N. benthamiana leaves in the presence of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX). Interestingly, whereas MPTMV:RFP levels decreased over time in cells expressing GFP or CDC48B:GFP, MPTMV:RFP levels did not decrease, but rather increased in cells expressing CDC48BQQ:RFP (Fig. 7, A and B). This finding suggests that MP degradation is dependent on CDC48 enzyme activity. The increase of MPTMV:RFP protein levels in the presence of CDC48BQQ:RFP may result from incomplete inhibition of protein synthesis by the inhibitor. Stability of GFP, CDC48B:GFP, and CDC48BQQ:GFP in the CHX-treated tissues was verified by western blot (Supplemental Fig. S5). Interestingly, MPTMVΔN5:RFP levels did not decrease upon CHX treatment irrespective of whether GFP, CDC48B:GFP, or CDC48BQQ:GFP was coexpressed (Fig. 7, C and D). This observation may indicate that the interaction between MPTMV and CDC48 is a prerequisite for MP degradation. [[FIGURE]] Evidence for the hypothesis that CDC48-mediated degradation of MPTMV may indeed reduce ER stress induced by MPTMV is provided by western-blot experiments, in which we used a maize (Zea mays) CRT antibody (CITATION) to analyze endogenous CRT levels in N. benthamiana leaves ectopically coexpressing MPTMV:RFP or MPTMVΔN5:RFP together with tagged or untagged CDC48B or CDC48BQQ (Fig. 7E). These experiments revealed higher levels of the ER stress-induced chaperone CRT in the presence of the MPTMVΔN5:RFP mutant, which, unlike MPTMV:RFP, is unable to interact with CDC48B. Increased amounts of CRT observed upon expression of tagged or untagged ATPase-deficient CDC48BQQ compared with functional CDC48B validate the induction of ER-resident chaperones in the presence of the dominant-negative CDC48QQ protein already seen at the transcript level (Fig. 4) and confirm that the GFP fusion to CDC48B does not interfere with the functionality of the protein. Deletion mutations in the N terminus of MPTMV, such as ΔN5, interfere with protein function in virus movement and with the localization of the protein along microtubules and at PD (Supplemental Fig. S6; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since the N terminus of the protein is important for interaction with CDC48B, we wondered whether CDC48B could play a role in directing the MP away from ER inclusions for association with microtubules and PD. As a test for this hypothesis, we analyzed whether overexpression of CDC48B:GFP would trigger a redistribution of MPTMV:RFP from inclusions to microtubules and PD. Because MPTMV shows extensive association with both inclusions and microtubules, it was difficult to visualize and quantify a gradual change in the tendency of accumulation to these alternative localizations using the wild-type protein. Therefore, for this test, we used MPR3, a functional MPTMV variant that carries a mutation in one of the putative transmembrane domains and accumulates predominantly in ER-associated inclusions and less along microtubules and shows a more homogeneous subcellular localization throughout infection sites (CITATION). Expression of CDC48B:RFP in TMV-MPR3:GFP infection sites on N. benthamiana leaves indeed resulted in an increased accumulation of MPR3:GFP along microtubules (Fig. 8A). Quantification of this phenomenon revealed that in cells expressing CDC48B:RFP, the number of cells with MPR3:GFP fluorescence associated with microtubules increased to 71% compared with 19% upon expression of RFP. In contrast, expression of CDC48BQQ:RFP decreased the number of cells showing microtubule labeling to 11% of the cells (Fig. 8B). These results suggest the involvement of CDC48 activity in the relocalization of MP from ER-associated inclusions to microtubules. [[FIGURE]] To further test the role of CDC48B in directing MP away from the ER, we wondered whether CDC48 overexpression would influence the cell-to-cell spread of TMV infection. According to the current model, TMV movement occurs in form of MPTMV-containing viral ribonucleoprotein/replication complexes that are transported in association with the ER to the PD for intercellular spread (CITATION; CITATION). Since MP is essential for this process, we expected that TMV movement should be inhibited if CDC48 activity removes MP from the ER upon introduction into cells at the leading front of infection. In order to test the effect of CDC48 activity on virus movement, we expressed free RFP in one half and CDC48B:RFP or CDC48BQQ:RFP in the other half of N. benthamiana leaves carrying TMV-MPR3:GFP infection sites and measured the size of fluorescent infection sites 4 d later. The sizes of infection sites in leaf halves expressing wild-type CDC48B:RFP were approximately 30% reduced compared with infection sites in leaf halves expressing free RFP (Fig. 7C). No such difference was observed between infection sites in leaf halves expressing CDC48BQQ:RFP and RFP, respectively. These observations are consistent with a role of CDC48B in virus movement by removing MP from the ER-associated transport pathway. Moreover, since CDC48B interacts with MP in ER inclusions, CDC48-mediated removal of accumulated MP from the ER may primarily occur as part of an ER stress-induced response that allows ER recovery during late stages of infection.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Columbia-0 plants were grown from seeds on soil with 12-h/12-h light/dark cycles at 21°C/18°C for 5 weeks. Plants were infected by rub-inoculating two leaves per plant with 150 ng purified ORMV virions in 10 mm sodium-phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, or mock (10 mm sodium-phosphate buffer, pH 7.4). Upper infected leaves were harvested for RNA extraction and qRT-PCR at 7 and 14 dpi. Wild-type or 16c (CITATION) Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown from seeds on soil under 16-h/8-h light/dark cycles at 22°C/18°C. Expanding leaves of 4- to 5-week-old plants were rub-inoculated with infectious RNA of TMV-MPR3:GFP (CITATION) or TMV-MP:RFP (CITATION) in vitro transcribed (RiboMAX; Promega) from infectious complementary DNA (cDNA) clones. Virions were prepared from ORMV-infected N. benthamiana leaves. Leaves were homogenized to fine powder in liquid N2. After addition of 1 mL 0.5 m sodium-phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, and 0.1% 2-mercaptoethanol per g leaf material, virions were extracted with 1 volume butanol/chloroform (1/1 [v/v]) and the phases separated by centrifugation (2× 15 min at 12,000g). Virions in the upper aqueous phase were precipitated with 4% polyethylene glycol 8000 at 20,000g. The pellet was resuspended in 10 mm sodium-phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, and cleared by centrifugation at 5,000g for 10 min. The supernatant was precipitated again with 4% polyethylene glycol 8000 and 1% NaCl and resuspended in 10 mm sodium-phosphate buffer, pH 7.4. Virion concentration was estimated from absorbance values at 260 nm. Binary vectors pB7-MP:GFP (MPTMV:GFP), pB7-MP:RFP (MPTMV:RFP), pK7-MPΔC55:GFP (MPTMVΔC55:GFP), and pH7-MPΔC55:RFP (MPTMVΔC55:RFP) are described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). Binary GFP:HDEL constructs were previously described (CITATION). Binary vectors for expression of N-terminal MPTMV deletion mutants, MPORMV, CDC48B (At3g53230), and CNX-2 (At5g07340) fused to fluorescent proteins and for expression of nonfused CDC48B were created by Gateway cloning. To construct N-terminal deletion mutants of MPTMV, the MPTMV open reading frame lacking the first 15 or 90 nucleotides, respectively, but retaining an ATG start codon was PCR amplified from TMV-U1 (NC_001367) cDNA. The open reading frame for full-length MPORMV was PCR amplified from ORMV (U30944.1) cDNA. Full-length coding sequences for CDC48B and CNX-2 were PCR amplified from Arabidopsis leaf cDNA. PCR products were recombined into pDONR/Zeo (Invitrogen). Following DNA sequence confirmation, entry clones were used for recombination with the destination vectors pMDC32, pK7FWG2, pK7WGF2, pH7WGR2, and pH7RWG2 (CITATION). Amino acid exchange mutants CDC48BE308Q, CDC48BE581Q, and CDC48BE308QE581Q (CDC48BQQ) were created by site-directed mutagenesis. PCR reactions contained 5 ng CDC48B entry vector as template DNA, 2× Phusion high-fidelity Taq master mix (Finnzymes), and 0.5 µm primer. PCR was performed according to the Phusion Taq protocol. Following mutagenesis, the PCR products were purified using the Nucleospin extract II kit (Macharey Nagel), DpnI digested, and transformed into Escherichia coli. After DNA sequence confirmation, the resulting entry vectors were used for recombination with pK7FWG2, pK7WGF2, pH7WGR2, or pH7RWG2 destination vectors (CITATION). Primer sequences to generate DNA constructs are listed in Supplemental Table S3. Analysis of publicly available gene expression data was performed using the Genevestigator analysis tool (https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/) and the AtGenExpress visualization tool (http://jsp.weigelworld.org/expviz/expviz.jsp). Microarray profiling and analysis are described elsewhere (CITATION). For qRT-PCR, upper leaves of untreated, mock-inoculated, and virus-infected Arabidopsis plants were homogenized in liquid nitrogen and RNA extracted using the RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen). Following treatment with TURBO-DNA-free DNAse (Ambion), 1 µg of the total RNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA using oligo(dT) primers and SuperScript III (Invitrogen). qRT-PCR with primers for CDC48A, CDC48B, CDC48C, CRT (At1g09210), and BIP-3 (At1g09080) as well as for reference genes (GAPDH, At1g13440; EXPRESSED PROTEIN, At3g01150; CITATION) was performed with cDNA of at least three biological replicates each. Each biological replicate represented a pool of four plants. For qRT-PCR analysis of agroinfiltrated N. benthamiana leaf tissue, RNA was isolated using the trireagent (MRC), DNAse treated, and reverse transcribed as above. qRT-PCR with primers for N. benthamiana BLP4 (FJ463755) and CRT (TIGR EST: TC18084) and with EF1α (AY206004) as reference gene, as well as with primers for tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) CDC48 (NCBI accession 98962497), was performed with three biological replicates of cDNA of plants transiently expressing GFP, AtCDC48B:GFP, AtCDC48BQQ:GFP, or GFP:HDEL for 2 d or with cDNA of wild-type or GFP:HDEL transgenic 16c plants kept under the same conditions. Ten-microliter PCR reactions contained 0.5 µm primer, 0.05 µm cDNA, and 5 µL SYBR-green master mix (Roche). PCR was conducted in a Roche 480II light cycler. PCR conditions were 5 min denaturation at 95°C and 40 cycles with 10 s at 95°C, 15 s at 60°C, and 15 s at 72°C. N. benthamiana BLP4 and Arabidopsis CRT-2 primers are described elsewhere (CITATION). All other primer sequences used for qRT-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table S3. Relative quantification of gene expression was made by normalization of the obtained cycle threshold (CT) values for the tested genes to those for the endogenous reference genes Arabidopsis GAPDH, Arabidopsis EXPRESSED PROTEIN, and N. benthamiana EF1α, respectively, yielding ΔCT values. Relative fold expression changes were calculated by forming the ratio between the 2−ΔCT values for treated and control conditions. Coefficients of variation for relative expression values (2−ΔCT) were derived by calculating the variation coefficients between biological replicates of both test and control conditions according to the formula cv = √ (cv12 + cv22). sds of relative fold expression changes were then calculated by multiplying the coefficient of variation with the ratio mean value. Binary vectors designed to express fluorescent protein fusions were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 or GV3101. The bacteria were syringe infiltrated into N. benthamiana leaf tissues with a final optical density at 600 nm of 0.5. For coexpression experiments, agrobacteria suspensions were mixed (1:1) before infiltration. Expression of the agroinfiltrated constructs was observed at 30 to 48 h after infiltration by fluorescence microscopy. Leaf samples were mounted on a microscope slide and vacuum infiltrated with water and epidermal cells imaged using a Zeiss LSM510 laser scanning confocal microscope with a C-Apo-chromat (63× 1.2 W Korr) water objective lens in multitrack mode. Excitation/emission wavelengths were 488 nm/505 to 545 nm for GFP and 543/585 to 615 nm for RFP. Images were acquired using LSM510 version 2.8 software (Zeiss) and processed with Adobe Photoshop and Image J software. Time-correlated single-photon-counting FLIM measurements were performed as previously described using a home-built two-photon system (CITATION; CITATION). Typically, samples were scanned for approximately 60 s to achieve appropriate photon statistics for the fluorescence decays. Data were analyzed using SPCImage version 2.8 software (Becker and Hickl), which uses an iterative deconvolution method to recover the lifetimes from the fluorescence decays. FRET efficiency reflecting the distance between donor and acceptor chromophores was calculated according to: E = (R06/(R06+R6)) = 1 − (τfret/τfree), where R0 is the Förster radius, R the distance between donor and acceptor molecules, τfret the donor lifetime in presence of the acceptor, and τfree the donor lifetime in the absence of the acceptor. Leaf discs of N. benthamiana leaves transiently coexpressing MPTMV:RFP or MPTMVΔN5:RFP together with GFP, CDC48B:GFP, or CDC48QQ:GFP for 40 h were vacuum infiltrated with a 100 μm CHX solution for 20 min and incubated in the solution for the duration of the experiment. Four leaf disks were withdrawn from the solution as pooled sample after 30 min (T1), 60 min (T2), and 120 min (T3). For the T0 time point, leaf disks were taken immediately before infiltration. Crude protein extracts were prepared by processing equal amounts of leaf tissue in sample buffer (10% glycerol, 5% 2-mercaptoethanol, and 2% SDS in 75 mm Tris, pH 6.8). For immunoblot analysis, samples were separated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Millipore). Immunoblot labeling was performed with anti-MP antibody reactive against MP amino acid residues 209 to 222 or with anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen) and peroxidase-labeled secondary antibodies (Invitrogen) for luminescence detection (Roche). Luminescent signal was quantified with the ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) gel analysis tool. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments were conducted with extracts of N. benthamiana leaf material expressing MPTMV:RFP alone or together with CDC48B:GFP harvested at 1.5 d after agroinfiltration. Leaves were homogenized in coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) buffer (50 mm HEPES, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 4 mm EGTA, 2 mm MgCl2, 10% Suc, 0.3% Nonidet P-40, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail) and cleared by centrifugation and the supernatant incubated with Protein-A Sepharose for 10 min to remove unspecific binding. Subsequently, the supernatant was incubated with Protein-A Sepharose and 10 µL anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen), anti-MP antibody, or preimmune serum, respectively, overnight at 4°C with gentle end-over mixing. After incubation, the beads were washed three times in Co-IP buffer, eluted with Gly, pH 2.5, and neutralized with Tris base. Recovered proteins were analyzed by western blot with anti-MP antibody or anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen) and peroxidase-labeled secondary antibody (Invitrogen) for luminescence detection (Roche). Co-IP using RFP-Trap M beads (ChromoTek) was conducted with N. benthamiana leaf material ectopically expressing CDC48B:GFP or GFP:CDC48B together with MPTMV:RFP or MPTMVΔN5:RFP, respectively, for 2 d. As control, leaf samples expressing MPTMV:RFP and GFP were included. Samples were ground to fine powder in liquid N2 and vortexed with 1 volume (v/v) of lysis buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and 1× Protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]). Samples were subsequently incubated in lysis buffer on ice for 30 min and cleared by filtration through Miracloth. After filtration, an aliquot of the protein extract was withdrawn as input control. RFP-Trap M beads were equilibrated according to the manufacturer’s instructions and 500 μL protein extract added to 20 μL beads in 500 μL dilution buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and 1× Protease inhibitor cocktail). The protein extract was incubated with the beads for 2 h at 4°C and gentle end-over mixing. Washing was performed by magnetically separating the beads five times and resuspension in wash buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and 1× Protease inhibitor cocktail). Remaining proteins were eluted by boiling the beads for 10 min in 2× sample loading buffer (126 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 20% glycerol, 4% SDS, and 0.02% bromophenol blue), magnetic separation, and recovery of the supernatant containing the trap sample. The input and trap samples were analyzed by western blot using anti-GFP (Invitrogen) and anti-RFP (Clontech) antibodies and peroxidase-labeled secondary antibody (Invitrogen) for luminescence detection (Roche). Recombinant His-tagged MPTMVHis6 expressed in E. coli was regenerated on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Ni-NTA) agarose (Qiagen) and used for affinity chromatography as described previously (CITATION). Soluble proteins of tobacco suspension cell line BY2 were extracted essentially as described (CITATION). After preincubation for 1 h with Ni-NTA agarose, the proteins were incubated with MPTMVHis6-complexed Ni-NTA agarose beads in PDB-I (50 mm HEPES, pH 7, 25 mm imidazole, 250 mm NaCl, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.5% Triton X-100, 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]) for 2h at 4°C with gentle end-over shaking. Following elution by incubation in elution buffer (500 mm NaCl, 50 mm HEPES, and 500 mm imidazole, pH 7.5), recovered proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Bands with differential intensity in MPTMV:His6-containing samples compared with empty control samples were excised, in-gel trypsin digested, and submitted to matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight analysis for identification. Mascot searches were performed in the NCBI 20070324 database to identify proteins corresponding to the measured peptide masses. Photographs of TMV-MPR3:GFP fluorescent infection sites in N. benthamiana leaves transiently expressing RFP in one leaf half and Arabidopsis CDC48B:RFP or CDC48BQQ:RFP in the other leaf half were taken under UV light, and areas of fluorescent infection sites on each leaf half were measured using ImageJ software. Mean values of areas of three to 15 fluorescent infection sites per leaf half were calculated. Mean values of infection site areas on leaf halves expressing CDC48B:RFP or CDC48BQQ:RFP were normalized to mean values of fluorescent infection site areas for the RFP-expressing control leaf half, respectively. Data were acquired in four independent experiments with a total number of 31 and 13 leaves expressing CDC48B:RFP or CDC48BQQ:RFP, respectively. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Subcellular localizations of MPTMV:RFP are similar during infection and upon transient expression. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression pattern of the different Arabidopsis CDC48 isoforms. Supplemental Figure S3. Expression of ATP hydrolysis-deficient CDC48B:RFP does not interfere with ER maintenance in the absence of ER stress. Supplemental Figure S4. Coimmunoprecipitation of CDC48B:GFP with MPTMV:RFP using RFP-Trap. Supplemental Figure S5. GFP, CDC48B:GFP, and CDC48BQQ:GFP are expressed during cycloheximide treatment. Supplemental Figure S6. Localization of MPTMV to PD and microtubules depends on the N terminus. Supplemental Table S1. MP-binding proteins in tobacco BY2 cells identified by affinity chromatography using recombinant MPTMV:His6. Supplemental Table S2. Relative expression levels of CDC48 isoforms and ER protein quality control genes in ORMV-infected compared with mock-inoculated Arabidopsis plants revealed by Affymetrix RNA profiling. Supplemental Table S3. Primer sequences. Supplemental Movie S1. N. benthamiana epidermal cell expressing CDC48B:RFP and GFP:HDEL. Supplemental Movie S2. N. benthamiana epidermal cell expressing CDC48BQQ:RFP and GFP:HDEL.
