!~ABS~! Salicylic acid (SA) signaling acts in defense and plant development. The only gene demonstrated to be required for the response to SA is Arabidopsis thaliana NON-EXPRESSER OF PATHOGENESIS-RELATED GENE 1 (NPR1), and npr1 mutants are insensitive to SA. By focusing on the effect of analogs of SA on plant development, we identified mutants in additional genes acting in the SA response. In this work, we describe a gene necessary for the SA Non-Recognition-of-BTH4 (NRB4). Three nrb4 alleles recovered from the screen cause phenotypes similar to the wild type in the tested conditions, except for SA-related phenotypes. Plants with NRB4 null alleles express profound insensitivity to SA, even more than npr1. NRB4 null mutants are also sterile and their growth is compromised. Plants carrying weaker nrb4 alleles are also insensitive to SA, with some quantitative differences in some phenotypes, like systemic acquired resistance or pathogen growth restriction. When weak alleles are used, NPR1 and NRB4 mutations produce an additive phenotype, but we did not find evidence of a genetic interaction in F1 nor biochemical interaction in yeast or in planta. NRB4 is predicted to be a subunit of Mediator, the ortholog of MED15 in Arabidopsis. Mechanistically, NRB4 functions downstream of NPR1 to regulate the SA response.
!~RES~! We previously performed a genetic screen for genes involved in the SA response; the first locus we found was NPR1, with 43 alleles (CITATION). The fourth locus (by number of alleles) from this screen was named NRB4, and the rest of the loci will be described elsewhere. NRB4 is defined by three alleles, which came from independent ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis events. The plants with these alleles were almost as insensitive to BTH as npr1-1 plants, at least in terms of diminished fresh weight when grown in the presence of BTH (Figure 1A, the letters above the bars in the figures indicate different homogeneous groups with statistically significant differences [Fisher’s LSD test, P < 0.05]). The nrb4-1 plants had a less severe phenotype than the nrb4-2 and nrb4-3 plants (Figure 1A). The mutants were recessive (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 1 online), although in both nrb4-2 and nrb4-3, F1s with Columbia-0 (Col-0) showed an effect on the SA response, as happens with the F1s with npr1-1 (Figure 1A). There was no genetic interaction with npr1 in the F1, and the F1s between the nrb4 alleles were as insensitive to BTH as their parents (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] The screen and the quantification of the fresh weight were performed with BTH. It was possible that these nrb4 plants were impaired in response to BTH but had no effect on the response to SA. To test this possibility, nrb4 plants and controls were grown on Murashige and Skoog plates with 500 µM SA. npr1 plants are unable to grow on these plates, likely because they are unable to detoxify SA (CITATION). nrb4-2 and nrb4-3 plants behaved as npr1-1, and nrb4-1 was intermediate between Col-0 and npr1-1 (Figure 1B). This observation was quantified by measuring the amount of chlorophyll per plant for three different treatments (Figure 1C). The quantification corroborated the intermediate phenotype of nrb4-1 plants and showed no difference in chlorophyll in mock treatments. In fact, in the absence of treatment, there were no observable developmental phenotypes in the plants carrying any of the nrb4 alleles; they were indistinguishable from Col-0 in our growth conditions. The nrb4 plants, like npr1, were also affected in SA-dependent defense (Figure 2). For example, inoculation with Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato strain DC3000 (Pto) after SA and BTH treatments induced a strong resistance in Col-0, but not in npr1-1 (Figure 2A). The nrb4 plants showed some residual resistance, but the difference with respect to Col-0 was always considerable. PR1 is a pathogenesis-related protein used as a marker for stress in plants (CITATION), so we produced a PR1 immunoblot blot of plants treated with Pto or BTH (Figure 2B). In both cases, strong accumulation of PR1 was observed only in Col-0. Therefore, even if SA and BTH induce a small amount of resistance in nrb4 plants, this resistance does not result in the accumulation of PR1. [[FIGURE]] The similarities between nrb4 and npr1 plants extended beyond the initial characterization. When tested for enhanced disease susceptibility phenotypes (CITATION), nrb4 plants were at least as susceptible as npr1 (Figure 2C). Surprisingly, nrb4-2 plants were wild type for pathogen-induced systemic acquired resistance (SAR), but the plants with the other two alleles, like all npr1 plants, were SAR defective (Figure 2D; CITATION; CITATION). Since this was an important difference, this experiment was repeated several times, always with the same result. All nrb4 and npr1 plants showed similar effector-triggered immune responses (Figures 2E and 2F) and responses to nonhost pathogens (Figures 2G and 2H). Only in the case of Resistance to Pseudomonas syringae 2–dependent effector-triggered immunity triggered by Pto(avrRpt2) did we observe a decrease in resistance in some plants; these paralleled the responses to Pto (Figures 2A, 2C, and 2D). Other pathogens tested included Pto(hrpC-) (CITATION) and Plectosphaerella cucumerina (CITATION). In these cases, the nrb4 plants were not different from the wild type (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B, respectively, online). Plants with npr1 alleles differ in their response to MeJA-induced resistance (CITATION). nrb4 plants were wild type in their response to MeJA (see Supplemental Figure 1C online) and also showed a wild-type phenotype on MeJA plates (see Supplemental Figure 1D online) and in growth of Pto(cor-) (CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 1E online). nrb4 and npr1 plants shared most of the phenotypes related to SA-dependent defense and/or response to biotrophic pathogens. Thus, we addressed whether the corresponding genes act in the same pathway by constructing the double mutant nrb4 npr1-1. These double mutant plants showed no additional change in fresh weight in response to BTH (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Therefore, another line was constructed with npr1-70 (a null allele with an intermediate response to BTH; CITATION) and nrb4-1 since it was the weakest allele (Figure 1A). nrb4-1 npr1-70 plants showed additive phenotypes, since these plants had a stronger phenotype than plants with either weak allele alone (Figure 3A). Similar results were obtained with respect to growth of Pto in response to SA and BTH treatment (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). [[FIGURE]] This additive relationship implied that the genes were independent. Mechanistically, this could be translated into several models. NPR1 functions in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION), and NRB4 could affect its localization and, potentially, that of other proteins acting with NPR1. The trafficking of NPR1 can be manipulated with a transgenic line that overexpresses NPR1 fused to the steroid hormone binding domain of the rat glucocorticoid receptor (NPR1-HBD; CITATION). Upon application of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone, NPR1-HBD is forced to the nucleus, while in mock conditions, it is excluded from the nucleus. The double nrb4-2 NPR1-HBD plant did not respond to BTH when dexamethasone was applied (Figure 3B). Thus, the presence of NPR1 in the nucleus, in the presence of BTH, was not enough to trigger the response. An alternative explanation for these results could be that NRB4 is a chaperone, required for NPR1 stability. This explanation was ruled out with the help of a line that expressed NPR1 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) (CITATION). In control conditions, NPR1-GFP was detected in the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 2C online, compare with Figure 2A of CITATION). The same localization was observed in this transgenic plant in an nrb4-2 background (see Supplemental Figure 2D online). Upon BTH application, NPR1-GFP was also detected in the nucleus, both in NRB4 wild-type and in nrb4-2 backgrounds (see Supplemental Figures 2E and 2F, respectively, online). Therefore, NPR1 was not only stable in nrb4-2 plants, but it is also localized in the nucleus. In spite of this wild-type NPR1 behavior, this line did not respond to BTH (see Supplemental Figure 2G online). Thus, NRB4 functions downstream of NPR1. Conventional mapping showed that NRB4 is encoded by At1g15780, a gene labeled as “unknown” in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (version 9; CITATION). The predicted protein contains a KIX domain (CITATION) at the very beginning and a Gln-rich region (CITATION) in the middle (Figure 4A). The sequences of the three alleles revealed that each allele had a single point mutation in the KIX domain (Figure 4). The mutations were not extreme in terms of physiochemical distances (CITATION). In fact, the mutations introduced did not change the prediction of an alpha helix structure (CITATION). Therefore, mutations that introduced small changes in the protein produced plants with a considerable change in phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Three independent T-DNAs insertions in NRB4 were found in the databases; two of them are in introns (nrb4-4 and nrb4-5; Figure 4B). In the case of the third T-DNA, we did not find any insertion (see Methods for details). One-quarter of the progeny of plants heterozygous for nrb4-4 (see Supplemental Table 1 online) was smaller in size and more chlorotic than the wild type, while heterozygous plants were wild type (Figure 5A). The smaller plants were confirmed to be homozygous nrb4-4 by PCR, and they grew very slowly in comparison with wild-type plants (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online). nrb4-4 plants did not seem to be affected in leaf anatomy (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), but we did observe differences in the trichomes. Wild-type plants had trichomes with papillae on their surface and prominent cells at their base (Figure 5B), but nrb4-4 plants lacked these two elements. Additionally, the arms of the trichomes were different, irregular, and chaotically arranged (Figures 5C; see Supplemental Figure 4F online). Several types of staining showed no difference in cell death or callose deposition (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), but 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining revealed differences in the nuclei (CITATION). NPR1 and the SA response are necessary for appropriate DNA content in the nucleus, with npr1-1 plants having more endoreplication than the wild type (CITATION). The point mutations in nrb4 produced plants with normal endoreplication using this assay, but nrb4-4 plants had the same or more DNA per cell than npr1-1 (see Supplemental Figure 6A online). Therefore, NPR1 and NRB4 share a role in controlling endoreplication of nuclear DNA. [[FIGURE]] When transferred to long-day conditions to induce flowering, nrb4-4 plants bolted, but did not produce any seeds (Figure 5D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In most plants, there was no production of flowers at all, but in a few plants some flowers did appear (see Supplemental Figures 3D and 3E online). These flowers did not have stamens, and the carpels did not completely enclose the ovules (see Supplemental Figure 3F online). The growth habit of nrb4-4 plants was normal until several days after bolting. Then several additional stems appeared, and afterwards a next generation of stems appeared in the previous stems in a pattern similar to a fractal (Figure 5D; see Supplemental Figure 3C online). Some plants kept growing up to 23 weeks, and when they died, they did not seem to be following the normal program of senescence. The phenotypes of nrb4-4 homozygous plants were reproduced by nrb4-5 homozygous plants (see Supplemental Figure 6B online). Similarly, the ratio of wild type versus no response to BTH was 1:1 in all cases of F1s from heterozygous nrb4-4 plants and any of the plants that were homozygous for an EMS allele (see Supplemental Table 1 online), while the plants with EMS alleles and the nulls were fully recessive (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). F1s between heterozygous nrb4-4 plants and heterozygous nrb4-5 plants had a ratio of wild type versus no response to BTH of 3:1 (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Therefore, the phenotypes observed in plants with the alleles nrb4-4 and nrb4-5 were caused only by the insertions of the T-DNAs in the NRB4 gene, and one copy of the missense mutation was enough to complement the phenotypes of nrb4-4 plants, besides the response to BTH. The nrb4-4 homozygous plants were easily distinguished at 2 or 3 weeks, and some experiments could be performed or adapted to this circumstance. nrb4-4 plants did not perceive BTH, either in terms of fresh weight (Figure 5E) or Pto growth (Figure 5F). The levels of symptoms in nrb4-4 plants after inoculation with Pto indicated that these lines were more susceptible than any other genotype, but perhaps the growth of Pto was already reaching a maximum. This extra susceptibility could be quantified with a weak pathogen, P. syringae pv maculicola CR299 (CITATION). Thus, P. syringae pv maculicola CR299 was unable to grow in Col-0, npr1-1, or nrb4-2, but grew two log units (100-fold) in nrb4-4 plants (Figure 5G). Since plants with nrb4-4 had an extreme susceptibility to pathogens, we wondered if they had also an extreme phenotype with SA. The responses to SA/BTH of the plants with null alleles were similar to the plants with EMS alleles (Figures 5E and 5F), so we searched for another phenotype. SA content was considered a promising one since it increases in plants under biotic stress, like Pto inoculation, but it is also increased in npr1 plants with respect to the wild type. nrb4-2 plants behaved like npr1-1, accumulating roughly the same SA amounts as the wild type in control conditions and more than the wild type after Pto inoculation (Figure 5H). nrb4-4 plants behaved differently, accumulating SA in both free and total form (free plus conjugated) in control conditions. Upon Pto inoculation, levels of both forms of SA were strongly increased (Figure 5H). It was possible to identify nrb4-4 homozygous plants in vitro (see Supplemental Figure 6C online) and to test their growth on plates with 500 µM SA. Growth of these plants was severely affected on SA plates, while heterozygous or wild-type siblings were largely unaffected by SA (see Supplemental Figure 6D online). NRB4 was coimmunoprecipitated in Arabidopsis with MED6 (CITATION), a subunit of the Mediator complex (reviewed in CITATION). Due to its homology to subunits of Mediator in other species, it was labeled MED15, and an in silico search claims that it is one of the three MED15 loci in Arabidopsis (CITATION). However, the role of MED15 in plants may be divided among these three genes, since the expression of NRB4 in yeast lacking a functional GAL11/MED15 did not complement the mutant phenotypes (see Supplemental Figure 6E online). MED15 belongs to the tail module of the Mediator, a module that interacts with specific transcription factors (CITATION). Since NRB4 is a subunit of the Mediator complex, and the Mediator complex is critical for global regulation of transcription (CITATION), it seemed logical to test the behavior of other Mediator subunits in the SA response. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 51 additional potential Mediator complex–encoding genes (The Arabidopsis Information Resource, version 9; CITATION), and we tested the plants with T-DNAs insertions available. Six genes had no insertion, 15 had one or more heterozygous insertions, and 30 had one or more homozygous insertions. These populations were tested in the same conditions that allowed the identification of nrb4-4 homozygous plants, yet none of them produced a phenotype different from the wild-type control (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Therefore, the role of NRB4 in the SA response was unique among the Mediator subunits. The additional phenotypes of the plants with null alleles compared with the EMS alleles of NRB4 were striking, but they did not point to any obvious process (e.g., auxins or light) that was altered, besides the SA response. A transcriptomic analysis was performed in nrb4-4 plants to identify possible physiological processes affected by the null mutation. Thus, RNAs from three biological replicates of nrb4-2 plants and Col-0 3-week-old plants (without treatment or inoculation), plus nrb4-4 of the same size (five weeks old), were isolated and hybridized to a commercial oligonucleotide microarray (see Methods). Interestingly, the molecular footprints of the two nrb4 plants were quite different. nrb4-2 plants had a very small impact on transcription, with eight genes significantly downregulated and only one upregulated (see Supplemental Data Set 1A online). By contrast, nrb4-4 plants had 243 genes significantly downregulated and 106 upregulated (see Supplemental Data Set 1B online). Among the genes upregulated, there were genes related to SA biosynthesis (Enhanced disease susceptibility 5 and Salicylic acid induction deficient 2,) and to defense (e.g., PR1, PR2, and PR3), although the levels of induction of the defense genes were quite low in comparison to pathogen inoculation of wild-type plants (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). This induction, though significant, was not strong enough to detect PR1 protein by immunoblot (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). The software package MapMan (CITATION) is able to identify groups of genes that are altered in one situation with respect to the control. In the case of nrb4-2 plants, there were only two main groups (e.g., “signaling”) strongly altered (P < 0.001), but in nrb4-4, there were up to 10 main groups strongly altered (see Supplemental Data Set 1B online), thus reflecting the severity of the pleiotropic phenotype of the mutant plants. In spite of the main groups suggested by these and other analyses (see Methods), there was no evidence of specific processes being altered, other than SA and defense. Using the global footprint of the transcriptome, we searched for other mutants or treatments that could give us any hint about other processes regulated by NRB4. AtCAST is a software package that “enables the identification of unknown relations among experiments to uncover the underlying biological relationships” (CITATION), and, with the default settings, AtCAST indicated a weak correlation (Spearman’s rank-order correlation coefficients) of the nrb4-4 transcriptome with the transcriptome of plants overexpressing ARR22 and ARR21 (for ARABIDOPSIS RESPONSE REGULATOR; CITATION, CITATION). To put these correlations into perspective, several transcriptomic experiments were clustered with Cluster 3.0 (CITATION; genes filtered for values >1 with centroid linkage and hierarchical clustering) along the nrb4-2 and nrb4-4 transcriptome and visualized with JavaTreeView (CITATION) (Figure 6A). nrb4-2 data were closer to both eds1 (CITATION) and NahG (CITATION), two mutations that produced a decrease in defense, but nrb4-4 data were closer to the treatments that induced defenses and to ARR21 and ARR22 overexpression. The correlations with ARR21 and ARR22 overexpressor plants, although not very strong, might indicate altered cytokinin signaling in nrb4-4 plants. When the nrb4 plants were grown in presence of trans-zeatin, there were no phenotypes of cytokinin insensitivity (Figure 6B), so even if the overexpression of genes involved in cytokinin signaling produced the data closest to nrb4-4, there was no visible cytokinin-related phenotype caused by the nrb4 alleles. The application of high amounts of cytokinins has been reported to induce SA biosynthesis and, therefore, defenses (CITATION). There is also a negative regulation of cytokinins by SA, which may help to fine-tune the amplitude of the defense output (CITATION). We did not detect any difference between the plants with EMS alleles of nrb4 and the wild type in this regard (see Supplemental Figure 7B online) nor did the nrb4-4 plants show cytokinin-related phenotypes (see Supplemental Figure 7C online). Therefore, there was no evidence for a role of NRB4 in cytokinin response or in any other specific process besides the SA response. [[FIGURE]] NRB4 expression is apparently unaltered by stimuli covered in the available microarray data (CITATION). We confirmed this using quantitative RT-PCR (RT-qPCR) to measure the levels of NRB4 after several treatments, including Pto inoculation and chemical treatments (Figure 7A). There was a reproducible increase in NRB4 expression after several treatments, but even in the best conditions (SA) it was quite low (1.46-fold induction). We did not detect any interaction between NRB4 and NPR1 (or its interactors) in yeast two-hybrid assays, regardless of the presence of SA in the media (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). The EMS alleles did not produce a measurable instability in the mutated mRNA, but the nrb4-4 mutation rendered the mRNA below the threshold of detection (Figure 7B). The expression of NRB4 was unaltered in npr1-1 plants (Figure 7B), and NPR1 was detectable in nrb4-2 at normal levels (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). [[FIGURE]] Although the Mediator complex is described to act in the nucleus, NRB4 did not contain any obvious nuclear localization signal. To determine the localization of the protein, we transiently overexpressed the NRB4 cDNA fused to the GFP coding sequence at the 3′ or 5′ terminus in Nicotiana benthamiana (Figures 7C and 7D, respectively). In both cases, there was a strong localization in the nucleus, with NRB4-GFP accumulating also outside the nucleus. The nuclear localization did not change with the application of 350 µM BTH (see Supplemental Figure 9B online). The predicted size of NRB4 was 146 kD, well above the free diffusion limit into the nucleus of 50 kD (CITATION). These constructs were transformed into nrb4 mutant Arabidopsis; none of the GFP-NRB4 constructs complemented the nrb4 mutants, but the NRB4-GFP plants complemented the EMS alleles with some variation when the response to BTH in terms of fresh weight was considered (Figure 8A). This variation was representative of the transgenic lines obtained regardless of the background. A version of NRB4 containing the first 670 amino acids was also able to complement the mutations in some lines (Figure 8A), but the version of NRB4 containing only the first 112 amino acids did not. In the complemented lines, GFP was not detectable by means of confocal microscopy or immunoblot (see Supplemental Figure 10A online). However, since there was detectable function, we also transformed the wild type Col-0 to study the effects of NRB4 overexpression. In this experiment, 35S:NPR1 was included as a control, since it is more sensitive to SA (CITATION). The transgenic lines that overexpressed both versions (1335 and 670 amino acids) of NRB4 had an enhanced SA response as measured by fresh weight after BTH applications (Figure 8B). We additionally complemented the wild type restriction of Pto growth after SA or BTH application using these lines (Figure 8C, also checked for PR1 expression; see Supplemental Figure 10B online). Note that the overexpression of NRB4 did not produce a strong defense response under control conditions, but when SA or BTH was applied, there was an enhanced response to SA (Figure 8D). Therefore, the effect of NRB4 was specific and limited to SA response. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana was sown and grown as described (CITATION) in controlled environment rooms with days of 8 h at 21°C, 150 µmol m−2 s−1 of light intensity, and nights of 16 h at 19°C. The treatments, inoculations, and sampling started 30 min after the initiation of the artificial day to ensure reproducibility. The following genotypes were used: npr1-1 (CITATION), 35S:NPR1-HBD and 35S:NPR1-GFP (CITATION), rpm1 (CITATION), rps2 (CITATION), nho1 (CITATION), and arr1-3 arr10-5 arr12-1 (CITATION). nrb4-4 was SAIL_792_F02, and nrb4-5 was GABI_955_E02. The line in which we did not find any insertion was SALK_106110C. Pto was grown, inoculated, and measured as described (CITATION). Briefly, plants of 18 d were inoculated by spray with Pto at OD600= 0.1 with 0.02% Silwet L-77 (Crompton Europe). Three days later, the amount of colony-forming units (cfu) per plant was quantified and represented on a logarithmic scale. When inoculations of older plants were measured, a sample of known surface was taken, and the resulting unit was log(cfu/cm2). Other strains used were Pto(avrRpm1) (CITATION) and Pto(avrRpt2) (CITATION). Pseudomonas syringae pv tabaci and pv phaseolicola NPS3121 were obtained from Jeff Dangl (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC). P. syringae pv maculicola CR299 has been described (CITATION). SAR was measured as reported (CITATION), inoculating leaves with Pto(avrRpm1) or a mock treatment using a blunt syringe. For all the experiments, at least three independent treatments were performed (three independent sets of plants sown and treated on different dates). Pto was maintained as described (CITATION). Primers and chemical products were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich unless otherwise stated. BTH (CGA 245704), in the form of commercial product (Bion 50 WG; a gift from Syngenta Agro), was prepared in water for each treatment and applied with a household sprayer. The response to BTH in terms of fresh weight was done as reported (CITATION). Briefly, plants were treated with mock or 350 µM BTH four times over three weeks. Then, the fresh weight of the plants was recorded and expressed as the ratio between BTH and mock-treated plants. A total of 100 µM MeJA (Duchefa) was applied by spray with 0.1% DMSO and 0.02% Silwet L-77. Dexamethasone was applied at 2 µM, diluted in water from a stock of 20 mM in ethanol. SA (in the form of sodium salicylate) was applied at 500 µM. For the treatments with cytokinins, trans-zeatin at 5 µM was used to imbibe pieces of wool rock (from a local gardening shop). Seeds were sown directly in the wool rock, and additional water was added to compensate for evaporation. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized for 10 min in 70% ethanol and for 10 min in commercial bleach. Then, five washes were done with distilled water and the seeds were distributed on agar plates. The medium contains 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts (Duchefa), 0.6% (w/v) Phyto Agar (Duchefa), 2% (w/v) Suc, with 0, 400, or 500 µM SA (final concentration). The results were evaluated 14 d after transferring to growing conditions. The chlorophyll was extracted with ethanol for 2 h at 65°C and quantified as described by CITATION. Three replicates of 10 plants each per treatment and genotype were measured. For the measurement of SA in planta, three samples of ∼100 mg were frozen in liquid nitrogen. SA extraction was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). NRB4 was cloned in pDONR221 (Invitrogen) from an RT-PCR product and then transferred to pMDC43 (CITATION; GFP-NRB4) and pB7FWG2 (CITATION; NRB4-GFP) for expression in planta. Nicotiana benthamiana leaf tissue was mounted in water under a cover slip 4 d after infiltration with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing the constructs. The Arabidopsis plants containing NPR1-GFP were 3 weeks old at the time of the pictures. A Leica TCS SL confocal laser scanning microscope using an HCX PL APO CS ×40/1.25 oil objective was used to study the subcellular localization of the fluorescence-tagged proteins. GFP was visualized by 488-nm excitation with an argon laser, and its emissions were examined with a band-pass filter for 500 to 530 nm. The primers used are included in Supplemental Table 4 online. The scanning electron microscopy pictures were taken with a JSM-5410 scanning electron microscope (JEOL) at the Electron Microscopy Service (Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Spain). Immunodetection of PR1 protein was performed as described (CITATION) using Amersham ECL Plus Western Blotting Detection Reagents (GE Healthcare). The second antibody was a 1:25,000 dilution of anti-rabbit IgG horseradish peroxidase conjugate (Promega). Chemiluminescent signals were detected using a LA-3000 luminescent image analyzer (Fujifilm Life Science). Total RNA was extracted with Trizol (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNA was synthesized with a RevertAid first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Fermentas), and the quantitative PCR performed with LuminoCt Sybr Green qPCR Ready Mix (Sigma-Aldrich) in a 7000 RT-PCR system (Applied Biosystems) following the manufacturer’s instructions. For each measurement, three biological replicates were done. The obtained values were referred to the geometric average of three reference genes (At3G18780, At1G49240, and At5G60390), as described (CITATION), and normalized with mock-treated Col-0 equal to one. The list of primers used is provided in Supplemental Table 4 online. RNA was isolated as described above and purified with the RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen). Array hybridization to an Arabidopsis GeneChip ATH1 (Affymetrix) was performed following the manufacturer’s recommendations. The hybridization was performed in the “Sección de Chips de DNA-S.C.S.I.E.,” University of Valencia (Valencia, Spain). Three biological replicates of each genotype were hybridized, with no technical replicates (three replicates of three genotypes and nine microarrays). The original hybridization data files were submitted to the European Bioinformatics Institute ArrayExpress repository, and the accession number E-MEXP-3602 was assigned to this experiment. The analysis of the microarrays was accomplished with Robin 1.1.7 (CITATION). The robust multiarray averaging normalization was used. Both mutants were compared with the wild-type control, and the P value cutoff was set at 0.05 with the Benjamini and Hochberg P value correction (CITATION). After the P value adjustment, a nested F test was used to classify the comparisons as significant (CITATION). Then, the following software was used: MapMan (CITATION), Sample Angler (http://142.150.214.117), AtCAST (CITATION), Cluster 3.0 (CITATION), and JavaTreeView (CITATION). For the statistic analysis, we used Excel 2003 (Microsoft) and Statgraphics 5.1 (Statpoint Technologies). The data analyzed corresponded with the following experiments: eds1, E-MEXP-546; NahG, E-GEOD-5727; npr1-1, E-GEOD-5745; sid2, and BTH, E-GEOD-9955; PsES, E-GEOD-5685; Mildew, E-GEOD-431; ARR21, GSE5699; and ARR22, GSE5698. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: NRB4, At1g15780; NPR1, At1g64280; ACT2, At3g18780; ACT8, At1g49240; and ELF, At5G60390. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Additional Phenotypes of nrb4 in Defense. Supplemental Figure 2. Epistasis of NRB4 with NPR1. Supplemental Figure 3 Additional Pictures of nrb4-4. Supplemental Figure 4. Additional Pictures of Cryo-SEM. Supplemental Figure 5. Stainings of nrb4. Supplemental Figure 6. Characterization of nrb4 Null Alleles. Supplemental Figure 7. Phenotypes from the Transcriptomic Analysis. Supplemental Figure 8. Yeast n-Hybrid Interactions. Supplemental Figure 9. Expression of NPR1 and NBR4. Supplemental Figure 10. Characterization of NRB4 Complementation. Supplemental Table 1. Evaluation of Segregations. Supplemental Table 2. Evaluation of Phenotypes in T-DNA Insertion Lines. Supplemental Table 3. Lack of Homologs in Arabidopsis for Several Nuclear Receptors. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used. Supplemental Data Set 1. Transcriptomic Analysis.
