!~ABS~! The proper balance of parental genomic contributions to the fertilized embryo and endosperm is essential for their normal growth and development. The characterization of many gametophytic maternal effect (GME) mutants affecting seed development indicates that there are certain classes of genes with a predominant maternal contribution. We present a detailed analysis of the GME mutant zak ixik (zix), which displays delayed and arrested growth at the earliest stages of embryo and endosperm development. ZIX encodes an Armadillo repeat (Arm) protein highly conserved across eukaryotes. Expression studies revealed that ZIX manifests a GME through preferential maternal expression in the early embryo and endosperm. This parent-of-origin–dependent expression is regulated by neither the histone and DNA methylation nor the DNA demethylation pathways known to regulate some other GME mutants. The ZIX protein is localized in the cytoplasm and nucleus of cells in reproductive tissues and actively dividing root zones. The maternal ZIX allele is required for the maternal expression of MINISEED3. Collectively, our results reveal a reproductive function of plant Arm proteins in promoting early seed growth, which is achieved through a distinct GME of ZIX that involves mechanisms for maternal allele-specific expression that are independent of the well-established pathways.
!~RES~! The original zix allele was isolated through the distorted segregation ratio of a Ds-carrying mutant allele in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background, in which the Ds element had inserted in the first exon of At4g00231 (CITATION). From the same mutant screen, we subsequently identified two additional alleles with Ds insertions at two other locations in the first exon of the same gene (Figure 1). Seed abortion frequencies in mature siliques of heterozygous zix/ZIX plants reached between 35 and 37% compared with 6% in wild-type plants (Table 1). Transmission of all mutant alleles, which carried the kanamycin (Kan) resistance gene, assessed by the ratio of Kan-resistant to Kan-sensitive seedlings, deviated from the expected Mendelian ratios of 3:1 and 1:1 for self-fertilized and outcrossed heterozygotes, respectively (Table 2). This segregation ratio distortion, with the transmission of the female alleles being more severely reduced than that of the male alleles, indicates that these are gametophytic mutants. Moreover, we could not obtain 100% Kan-resistant progeny populations from any mutant heterozygote despite reasonable transmission of both male and female mutant alleles (Table 2), which implies that additional zygotic embryo lethality underlies the genetics of these mutant alleles. [[FIGURE]] A detailed phenotypic characterization of the female gametophytes in ovules of unpollinated zix/ZIX pistils revealed a slight delay in embryo sac maturation: 2 d after emasculation, stage 12 flowers of zix/ZIX plants had more ovules with unfused polar nuclei (14%, n = 501) than those of wild-type plants (4%, n = 490) (Figures 2A and 2B). The most prominent mutant phenotype, however, was observed during early seed development after fertilization when we followed the developmental progression of seeds derived from zix mutant embryo sacs (hereafter referred to as zix seeds). [[FIGURE]] At 1.5 d after pollination (DAP), zix zygotes and early endosperm grew more slowly than those in wild-type embryo sacs: In 59% of wild-type seeds, the zygote had elongated and the endosperm had undergone three to four rounds of nuclear division; on the other hand, only 19 to 35% of zix seeds had reached a comparable stage of zygote and endosperm development (Table 3). In 24% of wild-type seeds, the zygotes were short and symmetric and the endosperm had undergone only one or two division cycles (Table 3), while up to 57% of zix seeds still remained at this stage (Table 3). This slow growth phenotype resulted regardless of whether the pollen were derived from wild-type or heterozygous zix/ZIX flowers, with the zix-2 allele displaying the most severe delay (Table 3), probably due to the Ds insertion being closest to the start codon (Figure 1). At 3 DAP, in wild-type self-fertilized siliques, ∼70% of the seeds were past the four-cell embryo stage, with most being at the early globular stage, while 25% lagged behind and were between the one- and four-cell embryo stages with well-developed endosperm typical of wild-type seeds at these stages (Table 4, Figures 2C, 2D, 2G, and 2H). By contrast, in zix/ZIX siliques crossed with either self or wild-type pollen, up to 29% of the seeds were arrested at the zygotic or one-cell embryo stage with less than eight endosperm nuclei, and the suspensors of these one-cell embryos did not divide any further in most cases (Figures 2E and 2F compared with wild-type seeds in Figures 2G and 2H, Table 4). In addition, 1.9 to 6.6% of the seeds were arrested at the two- to eight-cell stage, but the endosperm underwent only two or three rounds of division, a twofold reduction compared with the more than five divisions of wild-type seeds at this stage (Table 4). In 1.9 to 9% of the seeds, the embryo sac resembled a mature wild-type prefertilization embryo sac with no sign of either embryo or endosperm development and thus appeared unfertilized (Table 4). Beyond 3 DAP, most mutant seeds collapsed. The slight reduction in the male transmission efficiency of zix alleles (Table 2) prompted us to question whether the zix male allele contributes to the delayed growth and early embryo and endosperm postfertilization arrest. However, neither aberrant seed phenotypes were observed when heterozygous zix/ZIX flowers were used as pollen donors on wild-type flowers nor was any obvious abnormality observed in zix/ZIX pollen. Introgressing a DNA fragment encompassing the genomic At4g00231 locus into plants having any of the three zix alleles rescued the mutant phenotypes: In transgenic zix/ZIX plants carrying additional At4g00231 copy/copies, the seed abortion rates were significantly reduced and the transmission of mutant alleles significantly increased in comparison to those of nontransformed zix/ZIX plants (P values < 0.0001, at 95% confidence interval) (Tables 1 and 2). Based on these results, we conclude that the disruption of At4g00231 causes the loss-of-function GME phenotype in zix/ZIX plants and that maternal ZIX promotes early embryo and endosperm development in wild-type seeds. At4g00231 is a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome (http://www.Arabidopsis.org). Searching the nonredundant public databases by BLASTp (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) with the ZIX virtual translation sequence uncovered similar proteins across eukaryotic kingdoms, all sharing a sequence of ∼100 amino acids at the C terminus of unknown function (pfam09759), annotated as “Ataxin-10 related” (Figure 1; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The rat homolog of the human protein Ataxin-10, which is associated with a cerebellar dysfunction disorder (CITATION), is predicted to belong to the Arm repeat protein family (CITATION), the secondary structure of which is arranged into three α-helical turns interspersed by coils (CITATION). Using the HHpred algorithm (CITATION), we found that the ZIX secondary structure contains multiple α-helices connected by coil domains (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Although only two putative Arm repeat motifs similar to the archetypal Arm repeat (pfam00514 and smart00185) (CITATION; CITATION) were identified by this algorithm at the N and C termini of ZIX (Figure 1; see Supplemental Figure 2 online), upon scrutiny of the sequence and the helix alignments, we recognized a third Arm repeat motif at the ZIX N terminus (Figure 1; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The two best-fitting three dimensional models for ZIX predicted by I-TASSER (CITATION) and PHYRE (CITATION), using the presumed ZIX secondary structure and the Protein Data Bank (CITATION), were importin-α and β-catenin (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). These are the two Arm repeat proteins with a known crystal structure, the latter being the vertebrate equivalent of the Drosophila melanogaster armadillo protein (CITATION). The finding that the predicted three-dimensional structure of ZIX is similar to these two Arm proteins indicates that there could be additional Arm domains in the ZIX protein that were not recognized by the algorithms used because of lower primary sequence homology. Based on Arabidopsis Genevestigator expression data (CITATION), ZIX transcripts are present in many different tissues throughout the plant life cycle, with the highest expression levels in seeds, especially the endosperm (see Supplemental Figures 5A and 5B online). AtProteom (CITATION) detected ZIX peptides in young roots and young siliques (see Supplemental Figure 5C online). These results potentially point to diverse roles of ZIX in various Arabidopsis developmental processes, in addition to early embryo and endosperm development. We investigated ZIX expression specifically in Arabidopsis gametophytes and seeds 1 to 2 DAP by RNA in situ hybridization. ZIX transcripts were present in pollen and all four cell types of the mature embryo sac (central cell, egg cell, and synergids), as well as in the early embryo and endosperm, with the strongest expression in the prefertilization central cell (Figure 3). Thus, the expression of ZIX is consistent with its functional relevance for early seed development as revealed by the mutant phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] To better understand ZIX’s GME on early embryo and endosperm development, we focused our study on ZIX expression in the female gametophyte and early seeds from 1 to 3 DAP, when the zix phenotypes are manifest. In the ZIX:GUS (for β-glucuronidase) reporter lines, GUS expression was prominent in pollen and throughout the development of the female gametophyte, from the functional megaspore to the mature embryo sac (Figures 4A to 4E). In fertilized seeds of reciprocal crosses between the reporter lines and the wild type up to 3 DAP, activities of the maternal ZIX promoter were primarily detected in the early embryo and endosperm from the elongated zygote until at least the globular stage (Figures 4F to 4J; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Notably, there was a pause in maternal ZIX promoter activity at the early zygote stage before elongation (Figures 4F and 4G), which was preceded by a low level of expression in the unfertilized egg cell (Figures 3D, 4D, and 4E). The paternal ZIX promoter, on the other hand, only became active in both the embryo and endosperm from the one-cell embryo stage onwards (Figures 4K to 4O; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). In some seeds, residual GUS activity of the ruptured pollen tube in the degenerating synergid space could be observed at the micropyle (Figures 4K, 4L, and 4N). Furthermore, for both parental alleles, GUS expression in the suspensor was detected at a later stage than in the embryo proper (Figures 4I, 4J, 4N, and 4O). These results suggest postfertilization de novo expression of both parental ZIX alleles in the embryo and of the paternal allele in the endosperm. Whether postfertilization maternal ZIX expression in the endosperm was due to carryover of prefertilization transcripts from the central cell and/or involved de novo expression could not be determined due to the continuous presence of GUS activity. This parent-of-origin–dependent expression pattern was observed in both the Ler and Columbia (Col) accessions harboring the ZIX reporter construct. [[FIGURE]] Using a single nucleotide polymorphism of a DraI restriction site present in the second exon of ZIX in the Col accession but not in the Ler accession (CITATION; CITATION), we further investigated the parental origin of the endogenous ZIX transcripts in developing wild-type seeds of reciprocal crosses between these two accessions at 1 to 5 DAP. The results of RT-PCR followed by DraI restriction digestion of ZIX PCR products not only confirmed the preferential maternal postfertilization expression of ZIX but also showed an apparent increase of paternal ZIX transcript levels during early seed development, independent of the two genetic backgrounds studied (Figure 5A). Although we were not yet able to define the experimental parameters for allele-specific quantitative PCR (qPCR) to distinguish these two alleles, which differ by only a single nucleotide, qPCR for total ZIX expression levels in fertilized seeds 1 to 5 DAP showed that ZIX expression normalized to the expression of the reference gene ACTIN11 (ACT11) did not change significantly during this developmental window (Figure 5B). This result further underscores that the de novo paternal ZIX expression, despite increasing gradually, was still substantially lower than maternal ZIX expression as total ZIX transcript levels did not increase significantly. [[FIGURE]] To investigate allele-specific ZIX expression in the developing young embryo, we examined the transcriptome RNA-sequencing data of isolated embryos from previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Although the two Arabidopsis accessions used in CITATION are Ler and Col as in this study, maternal and paternal ZIX transcripts could not be distinguished in this data set. In the report by CITATION, the normalized ZIX maternal-to-paternal expression ratios for one-cell/two-cell, eight-cell, and 32-cell embryos of the Col × Cape Verde Islands crosses are 4.4, 1.76, and 1.57, respectively, and of the Cape Verde Islands × Col crosses are 0.7, 1.7, and 0.85, respectively. Since these ratios are inconsistent in reciprocal crosses, and since different Arabidopsis accessions were studied, we cannot draw any clear conclusion regarding allele-specific expression of ZIX in the embryo from these data. In conclusion, the parent-of-origin–dependent expression patterns of ZIX revealed by both promoter reporter and allele-specific RT-PCR analyses provide the basis of the GME of the zix mutant during early embryo and endosperm development. The differential expression of maternal and paternal ZIX alleles during early seed development raises the question of how parent-of-origin–dependent ZIX expression is regulated. We tested several trans-acting factors that were previously shown to repress silenced paternal alleles or to activate expressed maternal alleles of known genes with a GME on embryo and/or endosperm development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As repression is commonly associated with DNA and histone methylation, we tested whether the following genes are regulators of parent-of-origin–dependent ZIX expression: MET1, DDM1, and CHROMOMETHYLASE3 (CMT3) genes, which maintain CG and non-CG DNA methylation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); KRYPTONITE (KYP), which establishes H3K9me2 and DNA methylation at CHG sites (CITATION); and the FIS-PRC2 genes MEA and FIE, which partially repress the paternal MEA allele by H3K27me3 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To test whether a paternal hypomethylation background could alleviate paternal ZIX allele silencing, we evaluated the endogenous paternal ZIX transcript levels by RT-PCR in reciprocal crosses using wild-type plants and the DNA/histone hypomethylated mutants met1, ddm1, cmt3, and kyp as pollen donors in either the Ler or Col background. We could not detect any change of paternal ZIX expression levels in fertilized seeds up to 3 DAP, regardless of the mutant and accession used (Figure 6A). Moreover, hypomethylated pollen of these mutants rescued neither the early seed developmental arrest nor the seed abortion phenotype of zix. To examine whether the maternal mea or fie allele could derepress paternal ZIX, we monitored paternal ZIX promoter activities in mea and fie seeds fertilized by ZIX:GUS pollen. As in wild-type seeds, no paternal ZIX reactivation was observed (Figures 6B and 6C compared with Figures 4K to 4M). Collectively, these results indicate that early paternal ZIX repression in the zygote, young embryo, and early endosperm is not regulated by the DNA and histone methylation pathways mediated by these genes. [[FIGURE]] Regarding the regulation of expression of the maternal ZIX allele, we tested whether the DNA glycosylase DME, which demethylates DNA, is required for activation, depending on the context, as is the case for both MEA and FIS2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We crossed a ZIX:GUS line in the Col background with the dme-7 mutant and examined maternal ZIX promoter activity in unfertilized ovules or fertilized seeds of dme-7/DME;ZIX:GUS/- F1 plants. Fifty percent of the ovules or seeds in pistils of these plants carried the ZIX:GUS allele, and half of these also contained the dme-7 allele, while the other half harbored the wild-type DME allele. We observed that 53% (n = 246) of the unfertilized ovules and 51.6% (n = 184) of the fertilized seeds at 1.5 DAP showed maternal GUS expression similar to that in the wild type (Figures 6D and 6E compared with Figures 4E to 4G), indicating that maternal DME is not necessary for maternal ZIX expression. Collectively, our results on the zix reproductive phenotype, the spatial and temporal expression of ZIX, and the regulation of its parent-of-origin–dependent expression pattern establish that ZIX represents a GME gene in plants that is not regulated by the pathways known to be involved in the regulation of other GME loci. We further searched for potential regulators of ZIX expression by surveying public Arabidopsis epigenome databases for the presence of epigenetic marks at the ZIX locus. These database compilations integrate genome-wide data on DNA cytosine methylation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), histone methylation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), histone acetylation and ubiquitylation (CITATION), and the presence of small RNAs (CITATION) of young seedlings or immature floral tissues. This analysis revealed a low level of DNA cytosine methylation at the 3′ end of ZIX only in the CG context, while most histone modification marks commonly associated with highly and broadly expressed genes, H3K4me1/2/3, H3K36me3, H2Bub, and H3K56Ac, were present in the ZIX gene body and, in some cases, the promoter (see Supplemental Figure 7 online), consistent with the broad expression pattern of ZIX (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Histone modifications associated with genes having a low or tissue-specific expression (H3K27me3) or with transposons (H2K9me2), as well as small RNAs, were absent from the ZIX locus (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Whether these epigenetic marks display a similar distribution at the ZIX locus in the gametophytes, embryo, and endosperm is not known. In the future, determining the epigenetic landscape in these reproductive tissues will bring us a step closer to understanding the regulation of parent-of-origin–dependent expression of ZIX and other genes with a GME. To study the subcellular localization of the ZIX protein, we introduced a ZIX-Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) translational fusion construct driven by the native ZIX promoter (ProZIX:ZIX-GFP) into wild-type Ler plants. This fusion protein was functional, as the construct significantly increased zix allele transmission in zix/ZIX plants (Table 2), indicating successful complementation of the mutant phenotype. Corroborating the expression analysis of the ZIX:GUS reporter lines, in addition to expression throughout female gametophyte development (Figures 7A to 7D), ZIX-GFP was also detected in the vegetative cell but not the sperm cells of pollen (Figure 7E). On the other hand, ZIX-GFP was observed in accessory (synergids and antipodals) as well as gametic cells of the mature embryo sac (Figure 7E). In seeds, ZIX-GFP was detected from the one-cell embryo stage and two-nuclear endosperm stage to at least the early heart stage (Figures 7F to 7J; see Supplemental Figure 8 online). The absence of ZIX-GFP in the zygote (Figures 7F and 7G) was in agreement with the absence of ZIX promoter activity at this stage (Figures 4F, 4G, and 4K to 4M). Furthermore, as reported by the AtProteom database (see Supplemental Figure 5C online), ZIX transcripts (Figures 7K and 7L) and ZIX-GFP proteins (Figures 7M to 7P) were also observed in roots, in particular at the zones with active cellular proliferation (i.e., the root cell division zone [Figures 7L and 7M] and the lateral root initiation zone [Figures 7N and 7O]). In all cases, ZIX-GFP was localized in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Figures 7E and 7M to 7R), implicating ZIX in various cellular processes in which Arm proteins are known to play a role (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The presence of ZIX in actively dividing root tissues and the slow growth and early arrest of zix seeds suggest a link between ZIX function and cell cycle regulation. Thus, we examined whether the maternal zix mutant allele affects the expression of two Arabidopsis cell cycle genes, ORIGIN OF REPLICATION2 (ORC2) and CYCLIN DEPENDENT KINASE A1;1 (CDKA1;1). As both genes are biparentally active soon after fertilization, they could be studied in zix mutants prior to the early zix developmental arrest. ORC2 is a subunit of the Arabidopsis Origin of Replication Complex, and disruption of the gene leads to zygotic lethality due to embryo and endosperm arrest after a couple of cell cycles (CITATION). Mutated cdka1;1, a cyclin-dependent kinase, results in a delay of the second mitotic division of the generative cell, such that the sperm cells are only produced during pollen tube growth; consequently, only the sperm fertilizing the egg cell contributes its genome to the developing fertilization products, while the second sperm fertilizing the central cell does not (CITATION; CITATION). To examine the paternal allele expression of these genes in zix seeds, we monitored their promoter activities of the promoter:gene-GFP or -GUS lines used as pollen donors in crosses with zix/ZIX flowers. To study the maternal allele expression of these genes in zix seeds, we examined reporter gene expression in a zix embryo sac fertilized by wild-type sperm cells. No aberrant expression of either parental allele of both ORC2 and CDKA1:;1 reporters was detected in the zygote, one-cell embryo, and early endosperm of zix ovules at 2 DAP (Figures 8A to 8D), indicating that these genes are not regulated by ZIX. Overexpression of ZIX driven by the 35S promoter in wild-type plants did not confer any overgrowth phenotype of any tissues and organs. Therefore, an association of ZIX with cell cycle regulation cannot be established from these results. Whether other cell cycle genes functioning in early embryo and endosperm are affected by a lack of maternal ZIX expression remains an open question. Alternatively, ZIX might not be associated with cell cycle regulation, but rather with the competency to divide. [[FIGURE]] A well-characterized function of Arm proteins is their role as coactivators in conjunction with other transcription factors that initiate gene expression of cellular proliferation and differentiation pathways (CITATION). Therefore, we evaluated whether the early biallelic expression of two transcription factors expressed early in the endosperm and/or embryo, AGAMOUS-LIKE62 (AGL62) (CITATION) and MINI3 (CITATION), was affected in zix seeds. Mutants disrupting either AGL62 (CITATION) or MINI3 (CITATION) show precocious endosperm cellularization. We examined the parental promoter activities of reporter lines for these genes (CITATION; CITATION) in zix mutants as described above for ORC2 and CDKA1;1. At 2 DAP, AGL62 did not show any difference in parental expression in zix compared with wild-type seeds of a similar developmental stage (Figures 8E and 8F). On the other hand, although the paternal MINI3 expression in zix seeds (Figure 8H) was indistinguishable from that of wild-type seeds of a similar stage (Figures 8G), maternal MINI3 expression was lost (83%, n = 156 for zix-1; 94.5%, n = 182 for zix-3) (Figure 8J compared with Figure 8I) or strongly reduced in zix seeds (17%, n = 156 for zix-1; 5.5%, n = 182 for zix-3) (see Supplemental Figure 9 online), suggesting that MINI3 acts downstream of ZIX at least during early embryo and endosperm development. However, this loss of maternal expression of MINI3 alone is unlikely to be responsible for the GME of ZIX as MINI3 does not display a maternal effect on its own (CITATION). Yet, when combined with the misregulation of other genes, MINI3 could be a contributing factor. Later effects of ZIX on MINI3-dependent endosperm differentiation are likely but cannot be evaluated due to the early GME seed abortion phenotype of zix.
!~MM~! zix-1, zix-2, and zix-3 are Ds insertion lines in the Ler background (CITATION). The met1 allele in the Col background was generated by six backcross generations of the original met1 allele in the Ler background (Eric Richards, personal communication). ddm1-1, cmt3-7 (CS6365), kyp-2 (CS6367), mea-1, and fie-2 are in the Ler background. ddm1-2, kyp-4 (SALK_044606), and dme-7 (SALK_075424) are in the Col background. All T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the ABRC stock center (www.Arabidopsis.org). Homozygous met1, ddm1, and cmt3 mutants were selected from a segregating population of heterozygous parents. Plant selection on antibiotic plates and plant growth conditions were as previously described (CITATION). Genomic DNA extraction and Thermal Asymmetric Interlaced-PCR to identify the insertion sites of the Ds elements in the three zix alleles were performed as previously reported (CITATION). The insertion 3′ and 5′ ends were confirmed by PCR with Ds primers and gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). met1, ddm1, and cmt3 mutant alleles were identified by the presence of cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers that distinguish the mutant allele from the wild-type allele (primers and PCR conditions in Supplemental Table 1 online). kyp, mea, and fie mutant alleles were identified as described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). Genotyping of the T-DNA insertion in dme-7 allele was performed with the LBb3.1 primer (5′-ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC-3′) and dme-7 LP and dme-7 RP primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). RNA in situ hybridization for ZIX transcripts on sectioned reproductive tissues was performed as reported elsewhere (CITATION). ZIX sense and antisense RNA probes were in vitro synthesized from a pDrive vector (Qiagen) harboring a partial ZIX cDNA amplified by the two primers 5′-ATGGAAGCTTCTCTACCGGAA-3′ and 5′-GCCTTGACAGCTACAAAGC-3′. One-hundred ng of the respective probes were used per slide of sectioned pistils. Development of signals from digoxigenin-conjugated probes was run overnight. Whole amount RNA in situ hybridization on roots was performed on 10-d-old seedlings as described elsewhere (CITATION), with a modified Proteinase K treatment of 1.4 µg/mL after dehydration but before the acetylation reaction. Hybridization was performed with 50 ng of probes per sample at 55°C and the signal development was stopped after 3 h. For RT-PCR analysis of endogenous ZIX transcripts, Arabidopsis thaliana ovules and seeds freshly dissected from 15 to 50 pistils before and after manual pollination were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA extraction from the ground tissues was performed with 2× CTAB extraction buffer (2% CTAB, 2 M NaCl, 100 mM Tris-HCl, and 25 mM EDTA both at pH8, and 2% mercaptoethanol freshly added before extraction) at 65°C for 30 min, RNase-free DNaseI treated at 37°C for 15 min, extracted with an equal volume of chloroform, precipitated with 3 M LiCl (final concentration) after 2 h of incubation at −80°C, washed with 70% ethanol, dissolved in 20 μL of Diethylpyrocarbonate-treated water, and quantified with the Nanodrop ND6000. All RNA samples displayed the A260/A280 ratio of 2.0 to 2.3. Two micrograms of extracted RNA from each sample was then reverse transcribed with SuperScriptII (Invitrogen) in the presence of RNaseOut (Invitrogen) in a total volume of 20 µL. Two microliters of cDNAs from the reverse transcription reactions was used for allele-specific PCR (primers and PCR parameters in Supplemental Table 1 online). Five microliters of PCR products was digested with DraI (New England Biolabs) overnight at 37°C, and the digests were imaged by UV light after electrophoretic separation on Tris-acetate-EDTA gels. For real-time qPCR of total ZIX transcripts in 1 to 5 DAP seeds of reciprocal crosses between the Ler and Col accessions, two biological replicates and three technical replicates were performed in 20-μL reactions. One microgram of total RNA from each biological replicate was reversed transcribed into cDNAs in a 20-μL reaction, and 1 μL of the 1:5 dilution of the cDNAs was used for subsequent PCR. ACTIN11, a gene stably expressed in the early embryo and endosperm, was used as reference for transcript level normalization. qPCR primers for ZIX (forward, 5′-TGTCAAGGGCTCACCATCATCG-3′, and reverse, 5′-AATAATCCTCCACAGACCCAACGG-3′) and for ACT11 (forward, 5′-GTGGTCGTACTACTGGTATTGTGTTG-3′, and reverse, 5′-CGCAGAATAGCATGTGGAAGAGC-3′) were designed such that the PCR product spans an exon-intron junction of each gene so that only ZIX or ACT11 cDNA was amplified with the incorporated SYBR Green I dye in an Applied Biosystems 7500 Fast Real-time PCR machine. For the amplification phase, the parameters were as followed: 50°C/2 min, 95°C/10 min, 40 cycles of 95°C/15 s and 67°C/1 min. For the melting curve phase, the parameters included 95°C/15 s, 60°C/1 min, 95°C/15 s, and 60°C/30 s. All samples displayed only one melting curve peak. No amplification was detected in any of the non-DNA and genomic DNA controls. The relative quantification of ZIX expression normalized by ACT11 expression was analyzed by the ΔΔCT (cycle threshold) method (CITATION). For mutant complementation, a 4-kb fragment of At4g00231, including 2 kb upstream of the ATG start codon, the gene body of two exons and the middle intron, and 0.4 kb of the 3′ untranslated region was amplified from the genomic DNA of wild-type Ler leaves by PCR with primers containing the adaptors and BP sites for Gateway cloning (primers in Supplemental Table 1 online). The PCR products were cloned into pDONR221 (Invitrogen) by the BP reaction, and the LR reaction was performed between the pDONR221 containing the genomic At4g00231 fragment and the destination binary vector pMDC123 (CITATION). The final selected pMDC123 clone containing the genomic At4g00231 fragment was sequence verified before being introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 to shuttle this binary vector into zix/ZIX plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 transgenic mutant plants carrying the T-DNA harboring the genomic At4g00231 fragment and the Basta resistance gene were selected on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates containing 50 mg/L Kan and 10 mg/L glufosinate. Complementation assays were performed with T2 transgenic mutant plants selected on MS plates containing only 50 mg/L Kan. For ZIX:GUS promoter reporter lines and ZIX:ZIX-GFP fusion lines, the genomic fragment covering the 2 kb upstream region of the At4g00231 start codon and the genomic fragment used for the complementation assay excluding the stop codon and the 3′ untranslated region, respectively (primers in Supplemental Table 1 online), were PCR amplified from genomic DNA of Ler leaves and cloned into pDONR207 by the BP reactions (Invitrogen). LR reactions were performed for the BP products with the pMDC164 and pMDC111 plasmids, respectively (CITATION). For the ORC2:ORC2-GFP line, the At-ORC2 (At2g37560) genomic sequence was PCR amplified with the primers Orc2gsPac (5′-CGTTAATTAAACGGGAGAACAACTGATGGG-3′) and Orc2gaAsc (5′-TGCGCGCCACTGATTGAGATCAAGCAAAAGCTG-3′) and digested with PacI and AscI, and the digested PCR product was ligated into the vector pMDC110 (CITATION), the Gateway cassette of which had been excised between these two sites. Destination vectors carrying the transgenes ZIX:GUS, ZIX:ZIX-GFP, or ORC2:ORC2-GFP were sequence verified prior to Agrobacterium transformation of wild-type and zix/ZIX plants. T1 transgenic plants with the fusion constructs in the wild-type background were selected on MS plates containing 20 mg/L hygromycin and in the zix/ZIX background on MS plates containing 50 mg/L Kan and 20 mg/L hygromycin. The clearing and GUS staining procedures for mutant phenotypic characterization and GUS expression analysis of ovules, seeds, and pollen were performed as previously described (CITATION). For GFP examination in ovules and seeds, the pistils were dissected freshly in water to expose the ovules and seeds, which were embedded in water during observation with a Leica DM6000 microscope. Differential interference contrast (DIC) and GFP images were taken sequentially, processed, and superimposed by Adobe Photoshop or the GNU Image Manipulation Program v2.6 (http://gimpshop.com/). The GFP signals of isolated embryos, endosperm, and roots were examined by a Leica SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope as described elsewhere (CITATION). Expression data of ZIX were extracted from the public database links at The Arabidopsis Information Resource website (http://www.Arabidopsis.org). BLASTp of the ZIX virtual translated sequence was done with default parameters (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi). The secondary structure and putative Arm repeat motifs of ZIX were predicted by HHpred (http://toolkit.lmb.uni-muenchen.de/hhpred) with the following selected HHM databases: pdb70_16Jan10, interpro_16.2, pfamA_23.0, smart_17Jun09, and pfam_17Jun09. Based on these results, ZIX putative Arm repeats were manually aligned with the consensus Arm repeat sequences of pfam00514, smart00185, and the known Arm repeats of the yeast importin-α (Karyopherin) and the mouse β-catenin extracted from the protein database SMART (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/). ZIX three-dimensional models were predicted by I-TASSER (http://zhanglab.ccmb.med.umich.edu/I-TASSER) and PHYRE (http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/phyre/). Chromatin mark and small RNA distributions at the ZIX locus were extracted from the Arabidopsis epigenome public databases available at http://neomorph.salk.edu/epigenome/epigenome.html, http://epigara.biologie.ens.fr/cgi-bin/gbrowse/a2e/, https://www.mcdb.ucla.edu/Research/Jacobsen/LabWebSite/P_EpigenomicsData.shtml, and http://chromatin.cshl.edu/cgi-bin/gbrowse/epivariation/. The data from all databases were compared, and the common data were selected for presentation in the supplemental data. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following The Arabidopsis Information Resource accession numbers: ZIX (AT4G00231), 505006409; MET1 (AT5G49160), 2155959; DDM1 (AT5g66750), 2173644; CMT3 (AT1G69770), 2205015; KYP (AT5G13960), 2159133; MEA (AT1G02580), 2196110; FIE (AT3G20740), 2091876; DME (AT5G04560), 2184432; CDKA1;1 (AT3G48750), 2099478; ORC2 (AT2G37560), 2040706; AGL62 (AT5G60440), 2175188; MINI3 (AT1g55600), 2020467; and ACT11 (AT3G12110), 2099302. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of the ZIX C Terminus with the Ataxin-10–Related Domain pfam09759 of Other Eukaryotes. Supplemental Figure 2. Predicted Secondary Structure of ZIX by HHpred Based on Sequence Alignment with Proteins of Known Structures. Supplemental Figure 3. Alignment of Putative ZIX Arm Repeat Motifs with Known Arm Repeats. Supplemental Figure 4. Two Top 3D Thread Models of ZIX Predicted by I-TASSER Using Proteins of Known Crystallized Structures. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression Data of ZIX Transcripts and Proteins from Public Databases. Supplemental Figure 6. ZIX Promoter Activities in Early Seeds. Supplemental Figure 7. Chromatin Mark and Small RNA Distributions at ZIX Locus from Public Databases. Supplemental Figure 8. ZIX-GFP Protein Localization in Early Seeds. Supplemental Figure 9. Maternal MINI3:GUS Expression in 1 DAP Wild-Type Seed and 2 DAP zix Seeds. Supplemental Table 1. Primers and PCR Parameters.
