!~ABS~! The circadian clock plays a crucial role in coordinating plant metabolic and physiological functions with predictable environmental variables, such as dusk and dawn, while also modulating responses to biotic and abiotic challenges. Much of the initial characterization of the circadian system has focused on transcriptional initiation, but it is now apparent that considerable regulation is exerted after this key regulatory step. Transcript processing, protein stability, and cofactor availability have all been reported to influence circadian rhythms in a variety of species. We used a genetic screen to identify a mutation within a putative RNA binding protein (SPLICEOSOMAL TIMEKEEPER LOCUS1 [STIPL1]) that induces a long circadian period phenotype under constant conditions. STIPL1 is a homolog of the spliceosomal proteins TFP11 (Homo sapiens) and Ntr1p (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) involved in spliceosome disassembly. Analysis of general and alternative splicing using a high-resolution RT-PCR system revealed that mutation of this protein causes less efficient splicing of most but not all of the introns analyzed. In particular, the altered accumulation of circadian-associated transcripts may contribute to the observed mutant phenotype. Interestingly, mutation of a close homolog of STIPL1, STIP-LIKE2, does not cause a circadian phenotype, which suggests divergence in function between these family members. Our work highlights the importance of posttranscriptional control within the clock mechanism.
!~RES~! To discover new genes and alleles with a role in the plant circadian clock, we mutagenized Arabidopsis plants carrying a clock-regulated bioluminescent reporter, Cold, Circadian Rhythm, and RNA Binding 2:Luciferase (CCR2:LUC). Progeny were assayed in constant conditions, and mutants with altered free-running circadian rhythms were selected as previously described (CITATION). One such mutant was isolated on the basis of an enhanced bioluminescence, long-period phenotype (Figure 1A). We then used publicly available simple sequence length polymorphism markers to identify the locus responsible for this phenotype (CITATION). After screening 1576 plants from an F2 mapping population, we identified a 46-kb region on chromosome 1 that cosegregated with the long-period phenotype. This region contains 15 annotated genes (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Sequencing of candidate loci led to the identification of a G-to-A transition within the gene At1g17070 that is predicted to generate a premature termination codon (PTC; Figure 1B). At1g17070 shares significant homology with STIP genes identified in other metazoa (CITATION), and we therefore designated our mutant stipl1-1. As a lesion in STIPL1 appeared to be responsible for the observed long-period circadian phenotype, we identified an additional T-DNA insertion line within the STIPL1 locus from the SAIL collection (CITATION) and renamed this allele stipl1-2 (Figure 1B). For both mutant alleles, STIPL1 transcripts were readily detected but at reduced levels (Figure 1C) and likely represent unproductive, nonsense-mediated decay (NMD)-sensitive transcripts due to the introduction of a PTC in stipl1-1 and the T-DNA insertion in stipl1-2. Comparable long-period phenotypes were observed in stipl1-1 and stipl1-2 seedlings (Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1D online), confirming that these mutant phenotypes are attributable to disruption of the STIPL1 locus. However, we did not observe a rhythmic pattern of STIPL1 transcript abundance in constant conditions (Figure 1D), suggesting that the STIPL1 transcript itself is not subject to circadian regulation. [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of STIPL1 reveals that it shares significant homology with the STIP family of proteins (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) The human STIP homolog, TFIP11, has been identified as a component of spliceosomal complexes in many proteomic studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), thereby implicating these proteins in pre-mRNA splicing. STIPL1 is highly similar to other STIP family members, containing three conserved domains (Figure 1B) and sharing 32% overall amino acid identity and 49% similarity when compared with the human protein. STIPL1 contains two putative nuclear localization signals near the N terminus of the protein (Figure 1B; CITATION), and, consistent with these predicted motifs, we found STIPL1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) to be localized to the nucleus when expressed under the control of the native STIPL1 promoter (Figure 2A). This fusion protein also rescues the stipl1-1 mutant phenotypes (see Supplemental Figure 1E online). STIPL1 also retains the highly conserved Gly and Tyr residues within the G-patch that are required for binding to nucleic acids (Figure 2B; CITATION) and the conserved Gly and Phe residues within the N-terminal tuftelin-interacting protein (TIP) domain in common with other family members (Figure 2C). [[FIGURE]] Before proceeding with additional characterization of the stipl1-1 circadian phenotype, we backcrossed stipl1-1 to its parental Columbia (Col) wild type five times so as to minimize the number of unlinked genetic lesions present within the stipl1-1 germplasm. We then evaluated the stipl1 circadian phenotype in a range of different light conditions, including constant darkness, constant red, or constant blue light. In all cases, oscillations of CCR2:LUC bioluminescence in stipl1-1 and stipl1-2 plants have a free-running period ∼1.5 h longer than the wild type (Figure 1A, Table 1; see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online). As circadian rhythms may be entrained by either light or temperature cycles, we also evaluated the phenotype of stipl1-1 mutants after growth under constant light but with regular temperature cycles (22°C/17°C; Figure 1E). As for plants synchronized with light/dark cycles, stipl1-1 mutants had a longer period than wild-type seedlings (27.18 h ± 0.29 and 25.33 h ± 0.23, respectively) when entrained with temperature cues before release to constant conditions. To further determine the role of STIPL1 within the circadian system, we next assessed the extent to which cycling of specific clock genes was affected in stipl1 mutants in free-running conditions using quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) to evaluate transcript oscillation over a 48-h time course in constant white light (Figure 3; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Peak and trough expression of clock-associated genes was delayed in stipl1-1 over the 2-d time course (Figures 3A to 3F; see Supplemental Figure 2 online), consistent with each gene cycling with a long period. However, we did not observe any defects in expression of these genes beyond this alteration of phase under these free-running conditions. [[FIGURE]] Although regulated by an endogenous oscillator, circadian clock genes are frequently also induced by environmental changes (reviewed in CITATION; CITATION). This sensitivity ensures the appropriate coordination of metabolism and physiology with the environment and increases the fitness of the plant (CITATION). We therefore examined the expression patterns of circadian genes in stipl1 mutants under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). In addition to the phase-shifting of clock gene transcript levels observed under constant light (Figure 3), in light/dark cycles we observed other complex effects on transcript accumulation (Figure 4). After dawn, peak levels of LHY, but not CCA1, were significantly reduced in stipl1-1 (Figures 4A and 4B). In the morning, levels of TOC1 and GI transcripts were increased in stipl1-1 (Figures 4C and 4D), whereas the waveform of PRR9 accumulation was delayed in stipl1-1 mutants (Figure 4E). PRR9 accumulation in the late night was also reduced in stipl1 mutants, likely due to the long-period phenotype (Figure 4E). In the afternoon, peak levels of TOC1 were slightly reduced, while the GI peak was delayed (Figures 4C and 4D). A similar phase delay in transcript accumulation was seen for REVEILLE8 (RVE8, Figure 4F). Thus, regulation of clock gene transcript accumulation is significantly perturbed in stipl1-1 mutants grown in light/dark cycles. Similar results were observed in stipl1-2 mutants, although the effects of this allele were generally less severe (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] In addition to these circadian and diurnal phenotypes, stipl1-1 plants showed enhanced bioluminescence activity relative to the wild type in all conditions (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online). This phenotype was also observed when an alternate circadian reporter construct, CCA1:LUC, was introgressed into a stipl1-1 mutant background (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). In an effort to further characterize this phenotype, we assessed LUC mRNA levels by qRT-PCR. Despite the obvious differences in bioluminescence, this analysis revealed no appreciable changes in LUC transcript levels compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 3A online), suggesting a posttranscriptional cause for this phenotype. A similar increase in the activity of luciferase reporter genes has previously been reported for another Arabidopsis long-period mutant, tej, which encodes a poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARP) (CITATION). Like stipl1-1, tej mutants do not have increased levels of endogenous LUC mRNAs (CITATION), although application of the PARP inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB) was sufficient to rescue the luminescence phenotype of the tej mutant. While we were able to recapitulate the phenotypic rescue of tej mutants following 3-AB treatment as previously described, stipl1-1 did not show a significant response to this treatment (CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 3B online). It therefore appears that the increased bioluminescence of stipl1-1 mutants is neither caused by higher LUC gene expression nor by activation of the PARP pathway. As the enhanced bioluminescence phenotype was not observed in stipl1-2 plants (see Supplemental Figure 1D online), it was possible that an additional, linked mutation from the initial mutant screen might be responsible for this phenotype. To determine whether the enhanced luminescence was caused by mutation of STIPL1, we transformed stipl1-1 mutants carrying the CCR2:LUC reporter with a wild-type copy of the At1g17070 coding region along with a 2.5-kb region of upstream genomic sequence. Seedlings homozygous for the wild-type transgene had a circadian rhythm that was comparable to the wild type in period and amplitude under all conditions tested (Figure 1A, Table 1). In addition, these plants exhibited wild-type levels of luminescence. Thus, a wild-type copy of At1g17070 rescues both the long-period and high luminescence phenotypes of stipl1-1 plants, suggesting that truncation of STIPL1 within the ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-generated stipl1-1 allele has additional, genetically recessive consequences beyond the impairment of circadian function. Given the circadian phenotype and altered accumulation of some clock-related transcripts in the stipl1 mutants, we next examined whether altered splicing patterns were observed for these genes in the mutants. Samples were collected 4 h after dawn under driven light/dark cycles (Zeitgeber time 4 [ZT4]), a time when the 3′ ends of transcripts of clock genes, such as CCA1, LHY, TOC1, and GI, show very similar expression levels in the mutant and wild type (Figure 4). Relative levels of alternatively spliced isoforms were assessed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Dramatic differences were observed within the splicing variant populations of many core clock transcripts, including CCA1, LHY, PRR9, GI, and TOC1 (Figure 5; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). In total, we used 21 oligonucleotide pairs to evaluate splicing events across eight different clock genes (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). Of the splicing events studied, 33% of the clock transcripts tested had significant differences in accumulation between stipl1-1 and wild-type seedlings (>5% difference, P < 0.05; Table 2; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). Similar patterns were observed in both stipl1-1 and stipl1-2 alleles, although differences in AS were in general slightly less severe in the latter genetic background (26% of products significantly altered; Table 2, Figure 5; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). [[FIGURE]] Although we found that many different types of AS (intron retention, exon skipping, and alternative 5′ and 3′ splice site [SS] selection) are affected in clock genes in the stipl1 mutants, the greatest effect is an increased abundance of transcripts with retained introns, including unspliced transcripts (Figure 5; see Supplemental Data Sets 2 and 3 online). Indeed, many intron retention transcripts observed in the stipl1 mutants are barely visible in the wild type and other intron retention transcripts that are present in the wild type are increased in the mutants (see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental References 1 online). To examine the general effects on splicing of the stipl1 mutant, we also analyzed splicing/AS of a number of non-clock-related genes (see Supplemental Data Set 4 online). We surveyed 70 different genes, each with a single oligonucleotide pair. The majority showed increased levels of intron retention transcripts and unspliced transcripts with somewhat reduced levels of fully spliced (FS) mRNAs as above. A total of 35% of all the isoforms evaluated were altered by more than 5% in stipl1-1 seedlings compared with the wild type (Table 2; see Supplemental Data Set 4 online). This suggests that the stipl1 mutant impacts the efficiency of splicing of both constitutive and alternatively spliced introns such that a proportion of transcripts from most genes is not spliced to completion. This is also illustrated by the detection of unspliced transcripts (defined as retention of all introns within the amplified regions) in stipl1. In previous analyses of the non-clock genes using the same primers and range of RNAs from wild-type and various mutant plants (including serine/arginine-rich splicing factors and NMD proteins), RT-PCR products representing unspliced transcripts are usually absent or in very low abundance (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The increased levels of unspliced LHY and other transcripts in stipl1-1 is not due to genomic DNA contamination since we were not able to amplify such products in PCR reactions using purified RNA as template (data not shown). Importantly, FS transcripts remain the most abundant products, perhaps explaining why the stipl1 splicing defect is not inherently lethal. For the clock genes, we first examined AS changes in transcripts arising from the CCA1 locus using primers spanning exons 3 to 5 (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). At ZT4, FS CCA1 transcript accounts for 80% of the total population in wild-type samples, with most of the remainder (18%) identified as CCA1 AS5, in which intron 4 is retained (CITATION). By contrast, FS CCA1 transcript only represents 58% of the total transcripts in stipl1-1 seedlings. We identified significant increases in the proportion of CCA1 AS5 (between 23 and 28% of the total in stipl1 mutants) but also detected a greater proportion of CCA1 AS4 (7% of stipl1-1 transcripts compared with 2% in the wild type). CCA1 AS4 is generated through the use of an alternate 5′ SS within intron 4 that increases the transcript length by 367 nucleotides (CITATION). We also discovered a previously unidentified transcript not observed in the wild type, which we designate CCA1 AS15, in which intron 3 is retained and an alternate 3′ SS removes 19 nucleotides from exon 5 (Figure 5A). Splicing defects were observed for LHY using primers spanning exons 1 to 3, which are all within the 5′ untranslated region (Figure 5B; see Supplemental Figures 4 and 5 and Supplemental Data Sets 2 and 3 online). The FS transcript (161 nucleotides) accounts for 82% of the total product in the wild type, with a smaller fraction represented by LHY UAS4 in which intron 1 in the 5′ untranslated region is retained (10% of total; CITATION). In stipl1-1 plants, we observed a reduction in the proportion of the FS transcript (37% of total) and corresponding increases in the LHY UAS4 isoform (37% of total), of UAS5 (exon 2 skip), and unspliced product (499 nucleotides, 15% of total). Previous work describing PRR9 has identified two AS events (an alternative 5′ SS in intron 2 adding 8 nucleotides to the transcript and retention of intron 3), generating four AS transcript variants across exons 2, 3, and 4 (CITATION). We identified each of these isoforms in wild-type and stipl1 mutant plants (Figure 5E; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online) but also detected significant quantities of unspliced product in stipl1-1 mutants (428 nucleotides, 38% of total in stipl1-1; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). As for other examined genes, the proportion of transcripts retaining intron 3 increased in stipl1 mutants (PRR9 AS4 and PRR9 AS6; Figure 5E; see Supplemental Figure 5C online) with a commensurate decrease in the proportion of transcripts in which this intron was removed (FS PRR9 and PRR9 AS2). In contrast with what we observed for these other clock genes, there was no significant change in AS ratios for PRR7 transcripts in the stipl1 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 4D online). Although we collected samples during the morning (at ZT4), we were also able to detect alterations in AS transcript accumulation for evening phased genes despite their low levels of expression. When we examined AS across exons 12 to 14 of GI in stipl1 seedlings (Figure 5D; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online), we observed increased levels of GI AS3 (513 nucleotides, 8 to 17% of total), in which intron 13 is retained. We also observed perturbations in TOC1 AS isoforms, with TOC1 AS7 (retention of intron 4) representing 24 to 35% of the total detected transcript in the mutant compared with 8% in the wild type (Figure 5C; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). These data indicate that the splicing defect observed in the stipl1 mutants affects the relative proportions of FS and alternatively spliced isoforms of many, although not all, core clock genes. We also examined relative levels of each AS isoform following normalization to UBIQUITIN-CONJUGATING ENZYME21 (UBC21). In particular, FS LHY and PRR9 are reduced approximately twofold (see Supplemental Figures 5B and 5C online), but FS CCA1 is not significantly changed in stipl1-1 seedlings compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). In addition, expression of FS GI is increased in stipl1 mutant plants, although relative levels of this evening-phased gene remain low compared with morning-phased genes, such as CCA1 and LHY (see Supplemental Figure 5D online). The decrease in levels of FS transcripts for LHY may be due to increased abundance of AS, but this is unlikely to explain the increase in GI transcripts as AS events are in low abundance. Consistent with the selective effect of loss of STIPL1 function on splicing of clock genes, many AS events are not altered in stipl1 mutants (see Supplemental Figures 4D and 6 and Supplemental Data Set 2 online). Therefore, disruption of the STIPL1 locus causes a range of defects within both AS isoform population composition and FS transcript abundance for multiple clock genes, all of which may contribute to the observed long-period phenotype. STIP proteins have previously been described as single-copy genes found throughout the metazoa, although higher plants were not included in this survey (CITATION). Our phylogenetic analysis (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online) reveals that Arabidopsis contains two STIP paralogs, STIPL1 and a related gene that we call STIPL2 (At2g42330); STIPL1 and STIPL2 are 61% identical and 72% similar at the amino acid level. Similarly, two paralogs were identified in moss (Physcomitrella patens), Populus trichocarpa, and Sorghum bicolor, whereas four paralogs were identified in rice (Oryza sativa). Our analysis suggests that duplication of this gene occurred independently in each of these lineages (Figure 6A). However, duplication of these genes has apparently not occurred in all plant species as only a single STIP homolog was identified in maize (Zea mays; Figure 6A). Both STIPL1 and STIPL2 are expressed throughout development (see Supplemental Figure 7 online), and as for STIPL1, we found that STIPL2 is not rhythmically expressed under constant conditions (Figure 6B). To ascertain whether stipl2 mutants also have a circadian defect, we obtained a GABI-Kat T-DNA line (CITATION) with an insertion within this gene that we named stipl2-1 (Figure 6C). Once we confirmed that STIPL2 expression was impaired (Figure 6D), we crossed the CCR2:LUC reporter into this mutant background and found the free-running period to be the same as the wild type (Table 1, Figure 6E). This suggests that STIPL1 but not STIPL2 is essential for maintenance of the circadian system. [[FIGURE]] As partial redundancy of function is frequently observed within gene families in Arabidopsis, we attempted to isolate a stipl1 stipl2 double mutant to determine whether these plants had an exacerbated circadian phenotype. We crossed stipl1-2 and stipl2-1 to each other and examined segregation of the mutant alleles in the resulting F2 progeny. Despite examining 114 seedlings, we were unable to identify any stipl1 stipl2 double mutant plants. Furthermore, no plants heterozygous for stipl1-2 and homozygous for stipl2-1 were obtained, although we did isolate a small number of plants homozygous for stipl1-2 and heterozygous for stipl2-1 (Table 3). This skewing of the expected segregation ratios is highly significant (P < 0.001) and indicates that a copy of either STIPL1 or STIPL2 is required for plant viability. Since STIPL2 is a paralog of STIPL1 that does not have a mutant circadian phenotype (Table 1, Figure 6E), we examined whether stipl2-1 seedlings displayed altered accumulation of circadian transcripts (Figure 7). Using primers specific for the FS transcripts described in Figure 5, we found that the wild-type FS transcript abundance closely matched the results obtained using primers in the 3′ end of transcripts (Figure 4), but we did observe an increased peak level of FS TOC1 transcript in this line (Figure 7C). However, the phase of TOC1 expression (and that of the other clock genes assessed) remains unchanged, consistent with the normal period phenotype in these plants (Table 1, Figure 6E). To examine whether STIPL2 affects constitutive or alternative splicing, we examined the transcript profiles of 78 clock and non-clock-associated genes in stipl2-1 (Table 2; see Supplemental Data Sets 5 and 6 online). The striking increases in abundance of intron retention and unspliced transcripts seen with the stipl1 mutants are absent (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Only 2% of isoforms analyzed display a significant difference in accumulation between stipl2-1 and the wild type (>5% difference, P < 0.05; Table 2). Therefore, STIPL2 has no effect on splicing efficiency of the majority of genes/transcripts analyzed. These data reinforce our finding that STIPL1 has a general function in the splicing process and plays a predominant role in AS events in clock transcripts (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online) and suggests that STIPL2 may only affect a small subset of introns/genes (see Supplemental Data Sets 5 and 6 online). Therefore, despite the homology between STIPL1 and STIPL2 and their possible partial functional redundancy (suggested by our inability to isolate stipl1 stipl2 mutants), these related genes have diverged functions and very different impacts on the circadian system. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The stipl1-1 EMS allele was isolated from a previously described mutant population (CITATION). In brief, Arabidopsis thaliana (Col ecotype) plants transformed with the CCR2:LUC reporter construct (CITATION) were mutagenized with EMS before M2 seeds were screened for defective circadian rhythms under constant darkness (CITATION). stipl1-1 seeds were backcrossed to Col for three generations before being outcrossed to Landsberg erecta to generate a mapping population. A total of 1576 plants from the F2 mapping population were screened using bulk segregant analysis and simple sequence length polymorphic mapping methods (CITATION; CITATION) that linked the causative locus to a 46.5-kb region on chromosome 1. Sequencing of candidates within this region (see Supplemental Table 1 online) revealed a G→A substitution generating a PTC within At1g17070. stipl1-2 (SAIL-073187) and stipl2-1 (GABI-425C03) seeds were obtained from the SAIL and Gabi-Kat T-DNA insertion collections, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous T-DNA insertion lines were verified using primer sets 1 to 4 as described in Supplemental Data Set 8 online. Transgenic plants were generated by introducing the STIPL1 coding sequence and a 2.5-kb region upstream of the transcriptional start site into pENTR-D/TOPO (Invitrogen) via the TOPO cloning method and primer set 5 (see Supplemental Data Set 8 online). A binary vector containing the STIPL1 genomic fragment was created by LR recombination with pEG301 (CITATION). A similar vector containing this genomic fragment and a C-terminal GFP fusion was created by LR recombination with pGWB4 (CITATION). pEG301 STIPL1 and pGWB4 STIPL1 were moved into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transformed into stipl1-1 plants using standard protocols (CITATION). Transformants were selected on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with 75 μg/mL kanamycin (Fisher Scientific). Plants were entrained for 6 d in 12/12 light/dark cycles under white light on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with 3% Suc before being sprayed with 3 mM d-luciferin in 0.01% Triton X-100. Plants were then transferred to free-running conditions under either red, blue, or red+blue light-emitting diodes or held in constant darkness as previously described (CITATION). Imaging was completed over 5 d, and data was processed using Metamorph software (Molecular Devices). Patterns of luciferase activity were fitted to cosine waves using Fourier fast transform-nonlinear least squares (CITATION) to estimate circadian period length. The 3-AB treatment protocol was modified from CITATION. Plants were entrained to 12/12 light/dark cycles before being sprayed with a combination of 3 mM d-luciferin and 8 mM 3-AB in 0.01% Triton X-100. Plants were then returned to diurnal cycles for 24 h before being transferred to constant red light for luciferase imaging for 5 d. RNA was isolated and qRT-PCR performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, total RNA and cDNA synthesis were completed using TRIzol reagent and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase, respectively, following the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen). Real-time qRT-PCR was performed in 40 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.4, 100 mM KCl, 6 mM MgCl2, 8% glycerol, 20 nM fluorescein, 0.4× SYBR Green I (Molecular Probes), 1× BSA (New England Biolabs), 1.6 mM deoxynucleotide triphosphates, 2.5 mM each primer, and 5% diluted cDNA using Taq polymerase. Samples were run in triplicate, with starting quantity estimated from critical thresholds using the standard curve of amplification. Data for each sample were normalized to PP2a expression as an internal control. Primer sets used are described in Supplemental Data Set 8 online. High-resolution RT-PCR was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, 4 μg of total RNA was used in first-strand cDNA synthesis by reverse transcription with oligo(dT)18 using Ready-To-Go You-Prime First-Strand Beads (GE Healthcare) in a final volume of 20 μL. Gene-specific primer pairs (with one 6-carboxyfluorescein–labeled primer; see Supplemental Data Set 8 online) were designed to amplify between 400 and 800 bp to capture different splicing events. RT-PCR was performed as described (CITATION). The resultant RT-PCR products representing AS transcripts were detected on an ABI3730 automatic DNA sequencer along with GeneScan 500 LIZ size standard (Applied Biosystems). RT-PCR products were accurately sized and mean peak areas calculated using GeneMapper software. Genes homologous to Arabidopsis STIPL1 were identified using BLAST (CITATION, CITATION). Protein sequences were aligned using MUSCLE (CITATION) and manually curated to remove clearly erroneous regions of alignment. A maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree was constructed using CIPRES PORTAL (CITATION), using RAxML (CITATION) and an “LG+I+G+F” model of protein evolution as prescribed by ProtTest (CITATION). Data were manipulated in JALVIEW (CITATION) and FigTree version 1.3.1. STIPL1-GFP imaging was completed using a Leica TCS-SP2 laser scanning spectral confocal microscope equipped with an argon ion (488 nm) excitation laser system and a ×60 objective lens. The 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole fluorescence was detected following excitation at 395 nm using a UV laser. Image manipulation was completed with Leica proprietary software and ImageJ (CITATION). Similar localization patterns were also observed in three independent transgenic families in which pGWB4 STIPL1 was transformed into wild-type plants. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: CCA1, At2g46830; GI, At1g22770; LHY, At1g01060; PP2A, At1g13320; PRR9, At2g46790; RVE8, At3g09600; STIPL1, At1g17070; STIPL2, At2g42330; TOC1, At5g61380; and UBC21, At5g25760. Accession numbers for plant STIP family paralogs are presented in Figure 6A. stipl1-2 (SAIL-073187) and stipl2-1 (GABI-425C03) seeds were obtained from the SAIL and Gabi-Kat T-DNA insertion collections, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Bioluminescence of stipl1 Seedlings Containing a CCR2:LUC Reporter Construct. Supplemental Figure 2. Expression of Circadian Clock–Regulated Genes in stipl1 Seedlings under Constant Light. Supplemental Figure 3. Investigation of Increased Bioluminescence Mutant Phenotype of stipl1-1 Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 4. Alternative Splicing in Selected Circadian Transcripts in stipl Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. Examination of the Abundance of Circadian Gene Alternatively Spliced Isoforms in stipl1 Mutant Seedlings Using High-Resolution RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 6. Examples of Circadian Gene Alternative Splicing Events Unaffected in stipl1 Mutant Seedlings Assessed Using High-Resolution RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 7. Expression of STIPL1 and STIPL2 over Developmental Time. Supplemental Table 1. Gene Models Located in the stipl1 Mapping Interval. Supplemental References 1. References for the Supplemental Data. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Sequences and Alignment Used for the Phylogenetic Analysis Shown in Figure 6A. Supplemental Data Set 2. Changes in Ratios of Alternatively Spliced Products of Circadian Clock Genes in stipl1 Alleles (Excluding Unspliced Products). Supplemental Data Set 3. Changes in Ratios of Alternatively Spliced Products of Circadian Clock Genes in stipl1 Alleles, Including Unspliced Products. Supplemental Data Set 4. Changes in Ratios of Alternatively Spliced Products of Genes Not Directly Linked to the Circadian Clock in stipl1 Alleles. Supplemental Data Set 5. Changes in Ratios of Alternatively Spliced Products of Circadian Clock Genes in stipl2-1 Seedlings. Supplemental Data Set 6. Changes in Ratios of Alternatively Spliced Products of Genes Not Directly Linked to the Circadian Clock in stipl2-1 Seedlings. Supplemental Data Set 7. Analysis of Changes in STIPL1 Expression in Response to Abiotic Stress. Supplemental Data Set 8. Oligonucleotides Used for This Study.
