!~ABS~! In prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, the 3′-5′-exonucleolytic decay and processing of RNAs are essential for RNA metabolism. However, the understanding of the mechanism of 3′-5′-exonucleolytic decay in plants is very limited. Here, we report the characterization of an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) transfer DNA insertional mutant that shows severe growth defects in early seedling growth, including delayed germination and cotyledon expansion, thinner yellow/pale-green leaves, and a slower growth rate. High-efficiency thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the insertional locus was in the sixth exon of AT4G27490, encoding a predicted 3′-5′-exonuclease, that contained a conserved RNase phosphorolytic domain with high similarity to RRP41, designated RRP41L. Interestingly, we detected highly accumulated messenger RNAs (mRNAs) that encode seed storage protein and abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis and signaling pathway-related protein during the early growth stage in rrp41l mutants. The mRNA decay kinetics analysis for seed storage proteins, 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenases, and ABA INSENSITIVEs revealed that RRP41L catalyzed the decay of these mRNAs in the cytoplasm. Consistent with these results, the rrp41l mutant was more sensitive to ABA in germination and root growth than wild-type plants, whereas overexpression lines of RRP41L were more resistant to ABA in germination and root growth than wild-type plants. RRP41L was localized to both the cytoplasm and nucleus, and RRP41L was preferentially expressed in seedlings. Altogether, our results showed that RRP41L plays an important role in seed germination and early seedling growth by mediating specific cytoplasmic mRNA decay in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We identified a T-DNA insertional mutant from approximately 10,000 individual T2 Arabidopsis plants, derived from approximately 1,000 T1 parents transformed with the T-DNA of Agrobacterium tumefaciens binary vector pCAMBIA 1300, based on its extremely slow growth phenotype, designated slower growth (slg; Fig. 1A). To genetically characterize the mutant, the slg line was backcrossed with the wild-type parent (ecotype Columbia). The seed germination and growth of F1 progeny appeared to be normal, similar to wild-type plants. The F2 progeny from the self-pollinated F1 showed a segregation of the slg phenotype of 44 to 127, corresponding to segregation of approximately one to three (χ2 = 0.049, P > 0.05) on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with hygromycin. The seedlings showing resistance to hygromycin and a slow-growth phenotype were homozygous for the T-DNA, determined by PCR (data not shown). The seedlings showing resistance to hygromycin and normal morphology, similar to wild-type plants, were heterozygous (data not shown). These data suggest that the slg mutant was recessive and segregated as a single nuclear locus linked to the hygromycin resistance marker. [[FIGURE]] To identify the corresponding SLG gene, we performed hiTAIL-PCR for the T-DNA insertion site (CITATION). The sequencing of the hiTAIL-PCR products suggested that the T-DNA was inserted 1,287 bp downstream of the start codon in the sixth exon of AT4G27490 (Fig. 1B). The gene included seven introns and seven exons and encoded a 256-amino acid protein (Fig. 1B). It was predicted to be a 3′-5′-exonuclease with a conserved RNase PH domain. The Arabidopsis genome has 10 predicted RNase PH-containing proteins (CITATION). Semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR indicated that slg was a transcript-truncated mutant (Fig. 1C). The PCR analysis using primers specific for T-DNA and the genomic DNA indicated that all of the seedlings that displayed a slow-growth phenotype were homozygous (data not shown). In previous studies, AT4G27490 was thought to be one core subunit of the exosome, a homolog of yeast Mtr3 (CITATION) or Rrp41 (CITATION). We performed further phylogenetic analysis of the 10 Arabidopsis RNase PH domain-containing proteins and yeast Rrp41p and Mtr3p. The results showed that SLG was most closely related to yeast Rrp41p (Fig. 1D). Multiple gene alignment analysis showed that SLG shared 29% identity and 49% similarity with Arabidopsis RRP41 (AT3G61620; Supplemental Fig. S1). Thus, SLG was renamed RRP41-LIKE (RRP41L), and the mutant was renamed rrp41l accordingly. The homozygous rrp41l T-DNA insertion mutant was characterized in detail. Under normal conditions, the rrp41l mutant displayed various defects in early development. The seed germination of rrp41l occurred later than in wild-type plants, and the difference was most distinct 36 h after the end of stratification. No obvious distinction was observed, and the germination percentages of all types of seeds were greater than 98% after 60 h (Fig. 2A). The cotyledons of the rrp41l mutant expanded slowly and often accumulated anthocyanins around their margins (Fig. 2, B–D). [[FIGURE]] The rrp41l mutant also displayed yellow-green cotyledons and pale-green early-stage rosette leaves (Fig. 2B). Consistent with this phenotype, we found a significant reduction of chlorophyll content in one to six rosette leaves from 4-week-old rrp41l mutant plants compared with wild-type plants (Table I). The chlorophyll content of wild-type leaves was 1,051.77 ± 27.60 µg g−1 fresh weight, whereas the chlorophyll content in rrp41l was reduced by nearly 50%, with only 669.40 ± 17.28 µg g−1 fresh weight. The chlorophyll a/b ratio was reduced from 3.16 in wild-type plants to 2.56 in rrp41l. Additionally, in rrp41l, leaf size and thickness were reduced (Fig. 3, A–C), the petiole was shorter (Fig. 3, A and D), and the leaf margins displayed deep serrations (Fig. 3, A and E) compared with wild-type plants. The rrp41l mutant grew more slowly than wild-type plants, especially during the early stage of development. After bolting, the development of the mutant gradually recovered and finally was only shorter than wild-type plants (Supplemental Fig. S2). Total chlorophyll was obtained from 100 mg of rosette leaves 1 to 6 of 4-week-old wild-type, rrp41l, COM, OE8, and OE9 plants. The ratio of chlorophyll a to chlorophyll b was calculated by spectrophotometric quantification. Values shown are μg g−1 fresh weight. Data shown are means ± sd of three independent biological determinations. [[FIGURE]] We further analyzed internal leaf anatomy using light microscopy. A reduced density and irregular shape of mesophyll cells were observed in the rrp41l mutant, making the distinction between the palisade and spongy layers difficult (Fig. 4A). The leaves of the rrp41l mutant were also thinner. Further transmission electron microscopy showed that the chloroplast size and ultrastructure in the rrp41l mutant appeared normal, similar to wild-type plants (Supplemental Fig. S3). Scanning electron microscopy showed the details of the adaxial surface epidermises (Fig. 4, B and C) in the wild-type and rrp41l mutant leaves. The surface of rrp41l was completely crumpled, and the epidermal cells were irregularly shaped in the rrp41l mutant. [[FIGURE]] To confirm unequivocally that disruption of the RRP41L gene indeed resulted in all of the phenotypic alterations observed in the mutant, we introduced a 2,707-bp DNA fragment that included the genomic fragment of AT4G27490 and 864-bp sequences upstream from the initiation codon into the homozygote (rrp41l/rrp41l) for genetic complementation. A total of seven complementation (COM) lines were generated, and transcripts were detected by RT-PCR (Fig. 1E). All COM lines exhibited normal morphology, similar to wild-type plants. COM line 7 was selected for further analysis (Figs. 1G and 2–4). We also measured the concentration of chlorophyll in the leaves of COM plants, which was nearly equal to wild-type plants (Table I). Altogether, these data indicate that the disruption of AT4G27490 was responsible for the rrp41l mutant phenotype. Simultaneously, we generated a construct harboring AT4G27490 complementary DNA (cDNA) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Seven homozygous transgenic OE lines were obtained, and their RRP41L transcript levels were detected by RT-PCR (Fig. 1F). Two lines, OE8 and OE9, were selected for further analysis (Fig. 1G). Under normal conditions, OE8 and OE9 displayed slightly but significantly faster seed germination and cotyledon expansion than wild-type plants (Fig. 2). No obvious difference was observed in the rosette leaf size and morphology (Figs. 2B and 3), anatomic structure and ultrastructure (Fig. 4), chlorophyll content (Table I), and plant stature (Supplemental Fig. S2) in the later growth stage between the OE lines and wild-type plants. To investigate the intracellular distribution of RRP41L, we constructed an RRP41L-GFP fusion protein expressed under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, which rescued the rrp41l mutant phenotype in our experiment (Supplemental Fig. S2). RRP41L-GFP and red fluorescent protein (RFP)-AHL22, an AT-rich DNA sequence (AT)-hook motif nucleus-localized protein (CITATION), were transiently coexpressed in living Arabidopsis protoplasts. We found that the RRP41L-GFP fusion protein was localized to both the cytoplasm and nucleus, in contrast to the nuclear distribution of RFP-AHL22 (Fig. 5A). Consistent localization was shown in the 6-d-old root cells of stable Arabidopsis transformants (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] To visualize the temporal and spatial expression patterns of RRP41L in plant tissue, a 1,643-bp promoter fragment of RRP41L was fused with the GUS gene to generate transgenic plants. Fifteen independent transgenic lines were obtained, and more than six lines were stained and observed. GUS activity was detected in all of the organs, with the exception of the stems (Fig. 6, A–F). Interestingly, we found strong activity in imbibed seeds and seedlings (Fig. 6, A–C). However, barely detectable GUS activity was found in later rosette leaves in 4-week-old plants (Fig. 6E). A similar expression pattern was observed in six independent lines. Consistent results were obtained by quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR (Fig. 6G). Overall, these data show that RRP41L is preferentially expressed in early-stage seedlings. [[FIGURE]] Based on the rrp41l mutant phenotype, we examined the levels of transcripts that encode proteins related to photosynthesis, starch synthesis, seed maturation, the ABA biosynthesis and signaling pathways, and the GA biosynthesis and signaling pathways using qRT-PCR. Four-day-old rrp41l mutant seedlings were used because of their distinctive phenotype compared with wild-type seedlings. The results showed that the levels of the transcripts that encode photosynthetic-, starch synthesis-, and GA biosynthesis- and signaling pathway-related proteins accumulated almost normally in the rrp41l mutant compared with wild-type plants (Table II). However, highly accumulated mRNAs that encode SSPs were detected (Table II). We found that 18 of the 20 mRNAs tested were increased more than 2-fold in mutant compared with wild-type plants (Table II). Moreover, the mRNAs of key enzymes for ABA biosynthesis (i.e. NCED3, NCED5, NCED6, and NCED9) and ABA signaling transcription factors (i.e. ABI3 and ABI4 but not ABI5) also accumulated in rrp41l mutants (Fig. 7), suggesting that ABA levels and signaling could be enhanced in rrp41l. Consistent with these results, slight or moderate decreases in the transcript levels of most of the SSPs tested (Table II), NCED3, NCED6, NCED 9 (Fig. 7A), ABI3, and ABI4 (Fig. 7B) were detected in the OE8 line. No significant difference was detected in the COM line (Fig. 7; Table II). qRT-PCR analysis of transcripts (shown in fold change) in 4-d-old wild-type, rrp41l, COM, and OE8 seedlings is shown. The expression level in the wild type was set at 1.0. The means of three replicates of qRT-PCR and sd values are shown. Similar results were obtained when qRT-PCR was performed using a second set of samples. Dashes indicate transcripts that were not detected. [[FIGURE]] RRP41L has been predicted to have 3′-5′-exoribonuclease activity and to catalyze RNA decay. Therefore, we analyzed the in vivo decay kinetics of six mRNAs for AT3G15670 (a LEA protein), CRA1, NCED5, NCED6, ABI3, and ABI4 that accumulate in rrp41l. Four-day-old seedlings were treated with cordycepin, a drug that confers strong transcription blockade (CITATION), and qRT-PCR was performed. We found that the decay of AT3G15670, CRA1, NCED5, and NCED6 mRNAs was strongly diminished but not completely stopped in rrp41l (Fig. 8, A–D), suggesting that these mRNAs are substrates for RRP41L, but they must also be substrates for other RNA decay pathways. ABI3 and ABI4 mRNA decay was almost undetectable in rrp41l compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 8, E and F), suggesting that RRP41L is the only pathway for this mRNA decay during early seedling growth. The decay of AT3G15670, CRA1, NCED5, NCED6, ABI3, and ABI4 mRNAs was faster in the OE8 line than in wild-type plants (Fig. 8). No obvious difference was observed in the COM line (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] Since the mRNAs of ABA biosynthesis and signaling pathway-related proteins were highly accumulated during the early growth stage in rrp41l, we examined the response of the rrp41l mutant and OE lines to ABA. As expected, the rrp41l mutant was more sensitive to ABA in seed germination (Fig. 9A), cotyledon greening (Fig. 9, B and C), and root growth (Fig. 9, B and D) than wild-type plants. In contrast to rrp41l, the OE lines were more resistant to ABA in seed germination, cotyledon greening, and root growth compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 9). These results further confirmed the role of RRP41L in the regulation of ABA synthesis and/or signaling. [[FIGURE]] RRP41L shares 29% identity and 49% similarity with RRP41 (AT3G61620) in Arabidopsis, and they are all closely related to yeast Rrp41p (Fig. 1D; Supplemental Fig. S1). CITATION identified 266 up-regulated mRNAs in rrp41iRNAi (for estradiol-inducible RNA interference-mediated knockdown of RRP41) using tiling arrays. To investigate whether mutations in RRP41L and RRP41 affect common mRNAs, we randomly chose 16 mRNAs from the 266 mRNAs that were identified to be up-regulated in the rrp41iRNAi mutant and examined their transcript levels in rrp41l using qRT-PCR. The results showed only slight increases or decreases in these mRNA levels compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 10). We also compared the up-regulated mRNAs in rrp41l examined by qRT-PCR, with 266 mRNAs revealed using tiling arrays in the rrp41iRNAi mutant (CITATION). No mRNA overlap was found, with the exception of OLEO2 (Supplemental Table S1). These data suggest that RRP41L and RRP41 function distinctively, and thus RRP41 and RRP41L mutations result in different phenotypes. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia was used in all of the experiments as the wild-type control. All of the plants were grown on MS medium (4.43 g of MS salts, 30 g L−1 Suc, and 1% [w/v] agar powder, pH 5.8) or on soil at 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. To analyze the relative expression of RRP41L, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, roots, stems, flowers, and siliques from 5-week-old plants and 7-d-old seedlings were collected for RNA isolation and qRT-PCR. We used binary-vector pCAMBIA 1300 (CAMBIA) to generate the T-DNA collection. The transformed seeds were screened with MS medium that contained 25 µg mL−1 hygromycin. After 3 d in the dark at 4°C, the seeds were transferred to 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. The slg/slg (rrp41l/rrp41l) mutant was screened from approximately 10,000 seedlings from approximately 1,000 independent T1 Arabidopsis lines based on its slow-growth phenotype. The hiTAIL-PCR procedure and arbitrary degenerate primers for pCAMBIA 1300 were described by CITATION. Cosegregation of the T-DNA insertion site and mutant phenotype were analyzed with LBP (5′-GAAGAGGCCCGCACCGATCGCCCTT-3′) and plant-specific primers (MU-F, 5′-GGTTCGCTTGGACATTCGTG-3′, and MU-R, 5′-CATTCATCGGAAGCTGAGGC-3′). For the homozygous mutant plants, only PCR using LBP and MU-R primers could amplify a DNA fragment of approximately 500 bp. For wild-type plants, only PCR using MU-F and MU-R could amplify an 872-bp DNA fragment. For heterozygous plants, PCR with both primer pairs showed positive results. Additionally, the primers LP/RP (LP, 5′-ATGGCAGCTAAACCTGGAGCCGCAAC-3′, and RP, 5′-TCATTCATCGGAAGCTGAGGCAGACTG-3′) and LP1/RP1 (LP1, 5′-TTTTGCTTCCCCTACTCTTGG-3′, and RP1, 5′-CTTCACATCCTTCCTCCTCTG-3′) were used to validate the transcription levels of RRP41L in mutant and wild-type plants. Complementation was performed as follows. A 2,707-bp DNA fragment that included the full-length genomic DNA and 864-bp sequences upstream from the initiation codon from wild-type plants were amplified using the primers COM-LP (5′-CTGCAGAAATCTGAGAGTTATGGTACTAGCCACTGGGC-3′) and COM-RP (5′-CCATGGTCATTCATCGGAAGCTGAGGCAGACTG-3′). Following sequence verification, the fragment was cloned into a pCAMBIA 3301 binary vector. The construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and then introduced into the homozygous (rrp41l/rrp41l) plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). The transformants were screened with 519 µL L−1 Basta treatment. The T2/T3 transformant COM lines were screened with Basta, and all of the seedlings of homozygous COM lines were resistant to Basta and showed a green phenotype. The homozygous COM lines were then verified by PCR, and the following primers were used: LBP/MU-R (genomic DNA as the template), LP/RP (cDNA as the template), and COM-LP/COM-RP (genomic DNA as the template). For the OE of RRP41L, the RRP41L coding sequence was PCR amplified with the primers OE-LP (5′-AAGCTTATGGCAGCTAAACCTGGAGCCGCAAC-3′) and OE-RP (5′-GGTACCTCATTCATCGGAAGCTGAGGCAGACTG-3′) using wild-type cDNA as the template. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the binary vector pSuper1300 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The construct was transformed into wild-type plants to obtain the transgenic plants. The T2/T3 seeds from each transgenic line were screened with MS medium that containing 25 µg mL−1 hygromycin. The amino acid sequences for the RNase PH exosome subunits were aligned using the ClustalX program (CITATION). A maximum parsimony tree was generated using PHYLIP software (http://evolution.genetics.washington.edu/phylip/; version 3.69) with 1,000 bootstrap resampling and visualized using TreeView (http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html). For seed germination, plants of different genotypes were grown under the same conditions, and seeds were collected at the same time. For each comparison, seeds were planted on the same plate that contained MS medium with or without different concentrations of ABA as indicated. The plates were chilled at 4°C in the dark for 3 d (stratified) and moved to 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. The percentage of seed germination was scored at the indicated times. Germination was defined as the obvious emergence of the radicle through the seed coat. The germination results were calculated based on at least three independent experiments. At least 100 seeds for each genotype were scored for each replicate. To study the effect of ABA on postgermination growth, the seeds were sown on a medium that contained different concentrations of ABA as indicated. The percentage of cotyledon greening was recorded 5 d after the end of stratification. Cotyledon greening is defined as obvious cotyledon expansion and turning green. The length of primary roots was measured using a ruler. The results were calculated based on at least three independent experiments. At least 30 seedlings for each genotype were scored for each replicate. For leaf morphology observation, 4-d-old seedlings were observed using a microscope (Olympus SZX16-DP72), and 7-d-old seedlings were photographed with a Canon digital camera (PowerShot G12). For histological analysis, the fifth rosette leaves from 4-week-old wild-type and rrp41l plants were fixed in formaldehyde/glutaraldehyde fixative (1% [v/v] glutaraldehyde and 4% [w/v] paraformaldehyde in 0.05 mol L−1 phosphate buffer, pH 7.2). After fixation, the tissues were dehydrated in ethanol and then embedded in Spurr’s resin (SPI-CHEM). Thin sections (approximately 2 µm) were prepared using a microtome (Leica EM UC7), stained with 0.5% (w/v) crystal violet, and then observed by light microscopy (ZEISS Scope A1). Additionally, specimens were sliced to yield ultrathin sections (LKB-8800) and stained with uranyl acetate and alkaline lead citrate before being examined with a transmission electron microscope (JEM-123O). For scanning electron microscopy, plant material was prepared as described by CITATION. Micrographs were taken in a scanning electron microscope (Hitachi S-3400N). Chlorophyll was extracted from the leaves and measured according to the protocol of CITATION. Extracts were obtained from 100 mg of fresh tissue from one to six rosette leaves from 4-week-old plants and homogenized in 4 mL of 80% (v/v) acetone. Spectrophotometric quantification was performed in a Beckman DUR650 spectrophotometer. Pigment measurements were repeated in three independent experiments. Total RNA from plants of different genotypes was isolated using TRI reagent (Invitrogen), and cDNA was synthesized using an oligo(dT)18 primer with the Promega RT system. We performed qRT-PCR using TaKaRa SYBR Premix Ex Taq and the ABI 7500 Real Time PCR system. ACTIN2 amplification was used as an internal control. Each qRT-PCR analysis used a minimum of three biological replicates and two technical replicates. The primers for qRT-PCR are shown in Supplemental Table S2. Some primer sequences were taken from CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION. RNA decay assays were performed as described by CITATION. Four-day-old wild-type, rrp41l, COM, and OE8 seedlings were collected, pretreated for 30 min with incubation buffer with gentle shaking at 160 rpm on an orbital shaker at 22°C, and then supplied with cordycepin (Sigma) to a final concentration of 1 mm. The samples were collected before the addition of cordycepin, referred to as 0 min, and then the seedlings were collected after the addition of cordycepin at 15, 30, and 45 min (160 rpm at 22°C). The sample for each time point was frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately and stored at −80°C. The samples were then used for RNA isolation and qRT-PCR. To express the RRP41L-GFP fusion protein under the control of the 35S promoter, the full-length coding sequence without the TGA stop codon was cloned from the cDNA of wild-type plants with the following primers: FU-LP (5′-AAGCTTATGGCAGCTAAACCTGGAGCCGCAAC-3′) and FU-RP (5′-GGTACCTTCATCGGAAGCTGAGGCAGACTG-3′). The coding sequence was fused to the pSuper 1300-GFP vector, in which GFP is tagged at the C terminus. The plasmids were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts to observe the transient expression of the fusion protein. The protoplast isolation and plasmid transformation procedures were described by CITATION. The stable Arabidopsis transformants were obtained using the floral dip method, and transgenic plants were selected on MS plates that contained 25 mg L−1 hygromycin. The GFP and RFP fluorescence of the transgenic protoplasts and the GFP fluorescence of the transgenic plants were observed using a Zeiss 510 META confocal laser scanning microscope. To confirm that the localization of RRP41L was unaffected by GFP fusion, the 35S:RRP41L-GFP plasmids were transformed into the rrp41l/rrp41l mutant. Nine homozygous transgenic 35S:RRP41L-GFP/rrp41l lines were obtained. For the histochemical analysis of GUS staining, the RRP41L promoter:GUS gene was constructed using PCR amplification of a fragment 1,643 bp upstream from the initial codon of RRP41L using the primers PRO-LP (5′-CCAAGCTTTAAAGAGCCTTCTCATATGTG-3′) and PRO-RP (5′-CCGGATCCTGTTCTGAGCTGAGACTAAAC-3′); the fragment was then cloned into a pCAMBIA 1391 vector. Transformation was performed as described above. The tissues were examined using a microscope (Olympus SZX16-DP72), and digital images were recorded with a Canon digital camera (PowerShot G12). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of amino acid sequences of RNase PH domain-containing exosome proteins from Arabidopsis and yeast. Supplemental Figure S2. Development of wild-type, rrp41l, COM, OE8, OE9 and 35S:RRP41L-GFP/rrp41l plants after bolting. Supplemental Figure S3. Transmission electron micrographs of chloroplasts in wild-type, rrp41l, COM, OE8, and OE9 plants. Supplemental Table S1. Comparison of up-regulated mRNAs in rrp41l mutant and rrp41iRNAi mutant. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used for qRT-PCR.
