!~ABS~! A direct interaction of the Arabidopsis thaliana immunophilin ROF1 with phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate was identified using a phosphatidylinositol-phosphate affinity chromatography of cell suspension extracts, combined with a mass spectrometry (nano LC ESI-MS/MS) analysis. The first FK506 binding domain was shown sufficient to bind to both phosphatidylinositol-phosphate stereoisomers. GFP-tagged ROF1 under the control of a 35S promoter was localised in the cytoplasm and the cell periphery of Nicotiana tabacum leaf explants. Immunofluorescence microscopy of Arabidopsis thaliana root tips verified its cytoplasmic localization and membrane association and showed ROF1 localization in the elongation zone which was expanded to the meristematic zone in plants grown on high salt media. Endogenous ROF1 was shown to accumulate in response to high salt treatment in Arabidopsis thaliana young leaves as well as in seedlings germinated on high salt media (0.15 and 0.2 M NaCl) at both an mRNA and protein level. Plants over-expressing ROF1, (WSROF1OE), exhibited enhanced germination under salinity stress which was significantly reduced in the rof1− knock out mutants and abolished in the double mutants of ROF1 and of its interacting homologue ROF2 (WSrof1−/2−). Our results show that ROF1 plays an important role in the osmotic/salt stress responses of germinating Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings and suggest its involvement in salinity stress responses through a phosphatidylinositol-phosphate related protein quality control pathway.
!~RES~! A PIP chromatography was employed in order to identify PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 binding candidates from A. thaliana cell suspension cultures. A T87 cell suspension culture treated with either 0 (C) or 0.4M NaCl for 5 mins was centrifuged, cell pellet was collected and homogenized and extracts were first incubated with a positively and a negatively charged ion exchange chromatography (Q and S Sepharose) in order to reduce sample complexity. Sequential washings using different salt concentrations (see CITATION) resulted in fractions which in turn were incubated with the PIP chromatography. A band close to 80 kD apparent molecular weight appeared enriched in the PI(3,5)P2 incubation of several Q and S fractions (CITATION A–C). Salt stress (0.4 M NaCl) for 5 mins resulted in its enrichment in both the PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 incubations of the 0.2 M Q fraction (CITATION). Band excision from both lanes of the PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 incubation of the salt stressed cultures (CITATION), followed by nanoLC ESI-MS/MS identified the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases (PPIases) ROF1 (Q9LSF3; predicted MW: 63 kD; Mascot score for PI(3)P: 209; 4 peptides used with 100% probability and Mascot score for PI(3,5)P2∶730; 13 peptides used with 100% probability) and ROF2 (Q9FJL3; predicted MW: 65 kD; Mascot score for PI(3,5)P2∶427; 8 peptides used with 100% probability) (see Supplementary data; Spectrum Report S1). (A) 0.1S (0.1M NaCl elution of the S ion-exchange chromatography; see CITATION) fraction of A. thaliana extract incubated with the PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 columns. (B) 0.2S fraction incubated with PI(3)P, PI(3,4)P2 and PI(3,5)P2 columns. (C) FT collected after sequential incubation with a Q followed by an S column (Q–>S) and applied to a PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 affinity chromatography. (D) Incubation of a 0.2S fraction -obtained from extracts of 0 M (C) or 0.4 M NaCl treated, culture cells - with PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 columns. Arrows indicate an enriched band in the PI(3,5)P2 incubation (A, B and C) as well as its accumulation in both the PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 incubations following salt stress of the A. thaliana cell culture (D). ROF1 is a multi-domain protein. ROF1 contains an FK506 Binding Domain (FKBD) with PPIase activity, (FKBD1), two degenerate FKBDs (FKBD2 and FKBD3) as well as tetratricopeptide repeat domains (TPR) and a potential calmodulin binding domain CITATION (CITATION; CITATION). The PDB structure of the structural homologue of the FKBP12, β-spectrin, was obtained (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/structure) known for binding to the I(1,4,5)P3CITATION, CITATION, and the residues binding to the I(1,4,5)P3 were identified (CITATION). In particular, the structural studies have indicated that β-spectrin specifically interacts with I(1,4,5)P3 at K8, R21, S22, W23, Y69 and K71. Also, the 3D structures of the FKBD domains of ROF1 were obtained (http://swissmodel.expasy.org) and aligned to β-spectrin (CITATION). (A) Domain organization of ROF1. Black shaded boxes indicate low complexity regions (source: PFAM and UNIPROT). (B) ROF1 and ROF1 truncated mutants used in GST-His fusions for protein overexpression. NROF1: truncated ROF1 missing the first 37 aminoacids of the protein (low complexity region) (starting aminoacids: QGLKKKLL). TKFD: truncated ROF1 missing the low complexity region part of the FKBD1 and the polylysine motif (starting aminoacids: TKFDSSR). 3FKTPR: truncated ROF1 missing the N- terminus sequence containing both the polylysin and the DSSRDR motives (starting aminoacids: PFKFTLG). Also see CITATION. Structural alignment of β-spectrin and the FKBD1 domain of ROF1 using DALI pair- wise comparison (http://ekhidna.biocenter.helsinki.fi/dali_lite/start) and Cn3D (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Structure/CN3D/cn3d.shtml) indicated possible binding sites for a phosphorylated inositol ring on the FKBD1 domain of ROF1 (CITATION) involving the DSSRDR region. ROF1 and its truncated mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) were over-expressed with an N-terminal GST tag and C terminal-His tag following transformation of a BL21 bacterial cell line with the pALEX vector used for their cloning. Following double purification using Glutathione and Nickel columns ROF1 and its truncated mutants were eluted and used in a lipid overlay assay (CITATION). ROF1 specifically associated with both the PI(3)P as well as with the PI(3,5)P2 (CITATION). The FKBD1 domain was shown sufficient for PIP binding and appeared to possess a higher affinity for the PI(3,5)P2 stereoisomer and reduced affinity for the PI(3)P (CITATION). A competition assay, using the two stereoisomers as competing lipids, produced a specific reduction in the case of the PI(3,5)P2, however, an addition of PI(3)P as a competing lipid reduced signal for both the PI(3)P and the PI(3,5)P2 in the ROF1 and the FKBD1 assay (CITATION). Although the FKBD1 was shown to possess a high affinity for the PI(3,5)P2 its absence did not abolish binding to the PI(3,5)P2 stereoisomer as demonstrated by the ability of the 2FKTPR construct to interact with both lipids (CITATION). On the other hand, FK3TPR, only interacted with the PI(3)P (CITATION). Although the TPR-calmodulin binding domain alone was also over-expressed, we were unable to solubilise it and the entire amount of protein remained inside the inclusion bodies. The results suggest a differential capacity of the FKBD domains for lipid binding as well as the ability of ROF1 to bind to PI(3,5)P2 in the absence of the FKBD1 inspite the fact that FKBD2 and FKBD3 do not possess a structural identity to β-spectrin and predictable PIP binding sites, at least not to the same extent as the FKBD1 does (CITATION). Dot blotting of different PIP stereoisomers probed with 1 µg/ml of the ROF1 protein (A) and its truncated mutant 1FK (FKBD1) (B) (CITATION; CITATION) and detected with αντι-GST. (−): No competing lipid has been added in the incubation, [PI(3,5)P2]: 50 µM of the lipid has been added during the incubation; [PI(3)P]: 50 µM of the lipid has been added during the incubation. (C) Dot blotting of different PIP stereoisomers probed with 2 µg/ml of the ROF1 truncated mutants 2FKTPR and FK3TPR (CITATION; CITATION) and detected with αντι-GST. (D) Characterization of the binding site of ROF1 to PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 using the N-terminus specific antibody anti-ROF1. Overexpressed ROF1 was pre-incubated with different concentrations of the antibody, as indicated, prior to its use in a lipid overlay assay and detected with anti-GST. A polyclonal antibody was raised against the bacterially expressed ROF1 as described in the CITATION. Taking into account that αντι-ROF1 was raised against the denatured protein, ROF1 truncated mutants (CITATION) expressed in BL21 cells were purified and run on a polyacrylamide gel. Western blotting using αντι-GST as a control, in order to confirm that the entire and correct insert was expressed, showed that αντι-ROF1 specifically recognizes the N-terminus of the protein (CITATION). In particular, the antibody showed no affinity for the TPR-calmodulin domain as well as for the FKBD2 and the FKBD3 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It also showed a highly reduced affinity for the FKBD1 domain not containing the N-terminal residues prior to the DSSRDR sequence (TKFD construct) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The antibody showed a complete recognizing ability for the ROF1 providing that the polylysine rich patch (KKKLLK) was present (NROF1 construct) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Taking into account the specific site of antibody recognition, we used the antibody in order to block ROF1 prior to the incubation in the lipid overlay assay. Different concentrations of the ROF1 antibody were used in a mixture with the protein (0 to 2 µl/ml) and following incubation in a lipid overlay assay as previously described, αντι-GST was used for the detection of protein-lipid interaction (CITATION). The antibody pre-incubation reduced binding affinity for the 3,5 phosphorylated lipid but not for the lipid phosphorylated at the third position of the inositol ring (CITATION). Antibody specificity was further verified using both A. thaliana wild type and mutant lines (WDsLOX, WSrof1−, WSrof1−/2−) stressed at 37°C for up to 4 hrs. Results showed (CITATION; CITATION) that the αντι-ROF1 specifically recognizes endogenous ROF1 and to a very low extent its homologous partner ROF2 providing the latter has been accumulated following heat stress CITATION (CITATION). 5-day old A. thaliana wild type, ROF1 knock-out (rof1−) of both Columbia and Wassilevskija background and ROF1/2 double mutants (WSrof1−/2−) were incubated at 37°C for up to 4 hrs. anti-ROF1 specifically detects the ROF1 protein in plant extracts and to a less extent a second upper band (ROF2) following heat treatment only. Columbia ROF1 knock-out belongs to the WDsLox line. 3 week old A. thaliana plants were incubated with 0, 0.2 or 1 M NaCl. In young leaves collected at different time points, ROF1 and ROF2 accumulation was observed at an mRNA level following salt treatment (CITATION). A fast induction within 3 mins appeared following incubation with 1 M NaCl for both ROF homologues. mRNA accumulation was also observed in the case of ROF1 in seedlings germinated on high salt/osmotic media compared to the control (MS media). However, this accumulation was not observed for ROF2 (CITATION). ROF1 accumulation was also observed at a protein level (CITATION). No apparent differences were, however, observed in ROF1 protein accumulation at high salt concentrations (1 M) compared to lower salt concentrations (0.2 M) but an earlier reduction was observed for the 1 hr 1 M NaCl treatment compared to the 0.2 M incubation. Protein accumulation was also observed in the case of whole seedlings, germinated in high salt MS media (0.15 and 0.2 M NaCl) compared to the control seedlings (CITATION). The presence of ROF1 was also confirmed in non-germinated seeds only 3 hrs after water imbibition (CITATION). (A) Real time PCR of wild type A. thaliana plants treated for different time points and under different salt concentrations (0 M, 0.2M and 1M NaCl). Results are expressed as fold increase relative to the control set at 1. Control represents mock treatment with H2O for the respective time points to the NaCl treatment. (B) Real time PCR of control (C) wild type 4-day old A. thaliana seedlings germinated on MS media and of seedlings germinated and grown on media containing NaCl or mannitol. Results are expressed as fold increase relative to the control set at 1. Control represents plants grown on MS media. Results are average of three independent experiments performed in triplicates. (C) Western blotting of wild type A. thaliana young leaves obtained from plants which have been treated for different time points and at different salt concentrations (0 M, 0.2M and 1M NaCl). Control represents mock treatment with H2O for the respective time points to the NaCl treatment. (D) Western blotting of control (C) wild type 4 day old A. thaliana seedlings germinated on MS media and seedlings germinated and grown on MS media containing different NaCl concentrations. (E) Western blotting of WS and WSROF1OE seeds 3 hrs after water imbibition. Using an A. tumefaciens plant expression vector we transiently transformed tobacco leaves with constructs containing a full length ROF1. A cytoplasmic localization of the protein was observed using a 3D reconstruction (CITATION) as demonstrated by the traces (empty spaces) that the embedded organelles mark in the cytoplasm and the cytoplasmic strands formed. A peripheral localization may also be observed, more clearly seen in a single confocal section (CITATION). ROF1 localization was distinct to GFP localization since no nuclear localization of the GFP tagged-ROF1 was observed (CITATION). In order to confirm the nature of the peripheral localization of ROF1, a plasmolysis effect caused by 0.25 M NaCl treatment was used. As it is shown (CITATION), the peripheral staining of ROF1 is not due to a protein association with the cell wall. (A) Control (z-stack image projection), green: ROF1-GFP, red: chloroplast autofluorescence. (B) GFP-tagged ROF1 localization and bright field imaging (single confocal section) (C) GFP localization (single confocal section). N indicates nuclei. Scale bars: 10 µm. In order to further verify ROF1 subcellular localization immunofluorescence microscopy with A. thaliana root tips was used. A. thaliana seedlings were germinated on 0.8% agar media containing 1×MS and immunofluorescence microscopy was performed as described in the CITATION. Incubation with pre-immune serum or αντι-ROF1 staining of rof1− plants did not produce any fluorescence (results not shown) confirming antibody specificity as described above. In untreated plants and plants treated for a short period of time with high NaCl (0.4 M for 2 mins) ROF1 was mainly localized in the elongation zone of the root tip (seedlings were immersed in the solution washed briefly and then fixed) (CITATION; CITATION). However, in plants grown on high salt media (0.2 M NaCl), the localization pattern changed, expanding throughout the meristematic zone (CITATION; CITATION). The cytoplasmic localization of ROF1 was confirmed with immunofluorescence microscopy (CITATION; CITATION) whereas a stronger peripheral staining was observed in plants grown on high salt media (CITATION; CITATION) probably indicating membrane association. In any case, no nuclear localization was observed. (A) confocal image (z-stack projection) of untreated (control) plants; red: ROF1, blue: DAPI. (B) fluorescence microscope image of plants treated with 0.4 M NaCl for 2 mins. (C) confocal image (z-stack projection) of plants grown in 0.2 M NaCl; red: ROF1, blue: DAPI. Scale bars: 50 µm. Several lines of Columbia wild type (Col-WT), Columbia rof1− (Col- rof1−), Wassilevskija wild type (WS), WSrof1− and WSrof1−/rof2−, WS complemented mutants (WSROF1CM) and WS ROF1 over-expressions (WSROF1OE) were confirmed by western blotting using the αντι-ROF1 for ROF1 detection (CITATION; CITATION). Columbia WT as well as rof1− seeds on a Columbia background were germinated on media containing different NaCl concentrations. Although no difference was recorded on the germination rate of plants grown on media without NaCl in relation to the WT (CITATION, D) a significant delay was recorded on the germination of rof1− plants germinated on media containing salt concentrations of 0.2 M NaCl (CITATION). The NaCl effect on plant germination was also observed with the Wassilevskija wild type and rof1− (CITATION). Germination was nearly eliminated at 0.2 M NaCl when the WSrof1−/2− double mutants were used (CITATION). In order to show that the osmotic effect of ROF1 is exclusively due to the loss of the ROF1 gene complemented WSrof1− as well as WSROF1OE lines were used. It was shown that gene complementation completely recovered the wild type phenotype whereas gene over-expression resulted in a highly enhanced germination under salinity stress (CITATION). In order to differentiate between the ionic and the osmotic effect, WS, WSROF1OE, WSrof1−, WSROF1CM, WSrof2− and WSrof1−/2− were geminated on media containing 0.4 M mannitol and the osmotic effect on plant germination was confirmed (CITATION; CITATION). (A) Germination rate of the Wassilevskija background plants WS, WSrof1−, WSrof2−, WSrof1−/2−, WSROF1CM and WSROF1OE on MS media containing 0.2 M NaCl. (B) Germination rate of the wild type Wassilevskija background plants WS, WSrof1−, WSrof2−, WSrof1−/2−, and WSROF1OE on MS media containing 0.4 M mannitol. Three independent characterized lines (in each experiment) were used for each genotype. The results show the average of three independent experiments performed for each treatment. Values are means, and bars are SDs. (C) Seeds germinated on MS media containing 0.2 M NaCl or 0.4 M mannitol (day 6, 22°C). A. thaliana WSROF1OE and WSrof1−/2− seeds were germinated in the presence or absence of wortmannin or LY294002 under both control and salinity stress conditions. Germination was performed in darkness due to the photosensitivity of the wortmannin and LY294002. The NaCl concentration was 0.1 M instead of 0.2 M, used in previous experiments, due to the fact that germination efficiency in darkness in the presence of high salt concentrations was severely affected. Our results demonstrate that the PI3K inhibitors significantly affected seed germination of the double mutants under non-stress conditions (CITATION). In contrast, the germination efficiency of the WSROF1OE seeds was severely affected in the presence of the PI3K inhibitors when plants were germinated on 0.1 M NaCl, and in the case of wortmannin treatment WSROF1OE exhibited the same phenotype as the WSrof1−/2− plants under salinity stress i.e. their germination was completely abolished (CITATION). Seed germination efficiency of WSROF1OE and WSrof1−/2− at different time points under control (A) or salinity stress (0.1 M NaCl) (B) in the presence or absence of 33 µM wortmannin or 60 µM LY294002. The results show the average of four independent experiments performed for each treatment. Values are means and bars are SDs.
!~MM~! PIP chromatography CITATION was performed essentially as previously described CITATION. A. thaliana cell suspension (T87) CITATION extract was prepared as follows: For cytosol extraction TNEE buffer containing 50 mM Tris, 80 mM NaCl, 2 mM EGTA, 1 mM EDTA, 2 mM DTT, 300 mM sucrose, protease inhibitor coctail and 1% PVPP was used. Samples were filtered through miracloth and then centrifuged at 10000 g for 15 mins. Pellets were discarded and the supernatant was ultracentrifuged at 50000 g for 1 hr. The supernatant was incubated with Q or S Sepharose (ion exchange chromatography) (Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Sweden) for 1 hr. The first flow-through (FT) was collected. In some cases the FT of the Q incubation was collected, directly incubated with the S sepharose and a second flow-through was collected (Q−>S). The Q and S columns were washed successively with buffers of different NaCl concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6 and 1 M, pH 6 for S and pH 7.2 for Q). Fractions were concentrated using protein concentrating devices (Centricon, Millipore, UK). Following adjustment of protein concentration using a Bradford based assay (Bio-rad, US) the Q and S fractions were incubated with the phospholipids covalently bound to agarose (Affi-Gel) beads. Beads were washed with 50 mM Tris/0.01% NP40 buffer and proteins were eluted with Laemmli sample buffer containing 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 10% glycerol, 0.1 M DTT and 0.1% Bromophenol blue. Equal volumes were loaded onto SDS-PAGE. Gels were stained with silver nitrate (BDH, UK). For the MS sequencing purposes the gel was stained with colloidal Coomasie (Biorad, UK). PIP binding candidates were identified using nanoLC ESI-MS/MS CITATION. The PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P2 incubations of the 0.1S fractions were run on a denatured polyacrylamide gel and stained with colloidal Coomasie (Biorad, UK). Bands of interest were excised, reduced, carbamidomethylated, digested with trypsin and analysed by on-line nanoLC ESI-MS/MS. Tandem mass spectra were extracted, charge state deconvoluted and deisotoped by Mascot.dll version 1.6b25, and searched against the 50961 A. thaliana entries in Uniprot release 2011.01, using Mascot version 2.3.02 (Matrix Science, London, UK). The search parameters used specified trypsin as the digestion enzyme, with one missed cleavage allowed: a fragment ion mass tolerance of 0.15 Da and a parent ion tolerance of 150 ppm; carbamidomethylation of cysteine as a fixed modification; cyclisation of peptide N-terminal glutamine and oxidation of methionine, as variable modifications. Scaffold (version 3_00_01, Proteome Software Inc., Portland, USA) was used to validate MS/MS based peptide and protein identifications. Protein identifications were accepted if they could be established at greater than 95.0% probability and contained at least 2 peptides each identified at greater than 50.0% probability. A ROF1 construct in the pVAV44 vector (gift from Prof. Gasser) was used as a template for downstream applications. For subcloning in suitable vectors, primers described in CITATION were used, and the PCRs were performed using high Fidelity DNA polymerase (Phusion), (Finnzymes-UK). PCR products were first cloned using a pCRII-TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen-UK), transformed into NEB 10-beta E. coli cells and sequenced prior to any further use. Ligation for further sub-cloning was performed using T4 DNA ligase (Roche, Germany). Identified candidates and their mutants were sub-cloned in the pALEX expression vector for protein overexpression CITATION. ROF1 and its truncated mutants were sub-cloned in the indicated sites (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For the FK3TPR construct a direct cloning strategy was followed since digestion of the pVAV44 construct at the Xho1 site produced an in frame insert for cloning in the pALEX vector. The constructs were introduced in BL21 cells CITATION -provided by Prof. Sanchez-Serrano - and induction was performed at 28°C, starting when the OD600 reached 0.5, for 6 hrs using 0.75 mM IPTG. Bacterial pellets were collected and lysed using 200 µg/ml lysozyme in Tris or PBS buffer. Proteins were purified after two sequential incubations with GST and His columns (Amersham-Pharmacia, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, collected at the end of the second (nickel column) elution, aliquoted, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C in the presence of 10% glycerol. Full length expression of the GST/His tagged proteins was confirmed using the αντι-GST (rabbit polyclonal, Upstate Lake Placid, NY) and the αντι-His mouse monoclonal IgG2a (Amersham Biosciences, Germany). A lipid overlay assay was used for the detection of direct protein-lipid interaction. PI, PI(3,4)P2, PI(3,5)P2, PI(4,5)P2 and PI(3,4,5)P3 lipids were purchased from Avanti (Alabaster, USA) and PI(3)P, PI(4)P and PI(5)P from Cayman (Ann Arbor, USA). Lipids were diluted in chloroform/methanol and 1 µl (of serial dilutions) of each was spotted on a nitrocellulose membrane (porablot NCL, US). After drying for 30 mins the membrane was incubated with 1% fat free-ultrapure BSA for 1 hr in TBS (50 mM Tris/HCl, 150 mM NaCl and 0,1% tween 20 pH 7,4) for 1 hr at room temperature. Incubation was performed overnight at 4°C using 2 µg/ml purified GST tagged protein. GST-tagged proteins bound to the lipids were detected using αντι-GST. For the lipid competition assay, the same procedure was followed with the additional step of the competing lipid inclusion at a final concentration of 50 µM during the incubation procedure with 1 µg/ml purified GST tagged protein. Equal volume of chloroform/methanol was added in the control (no competing lipid addition) reaction. A rabbit polyclonal αντι-ROF1 was prepared and used in Western blotting, dot blotting and immunofluorescence microscopy. Αντι-ROF1 polyclonal antibody was prepared using bacteria overexpressed and purified ROF1. Digestion with factor Xa and Enterokinase (Invitrogen, UK) was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Following digestion the entire amount of the collected protein was run on a polyacrylamide gel under denaturing conditions. Following Coomassie blue staining a clear band of the expected molecular size was cut from the gel and ROF1 was eluted from the polyacrylamide gel using the electroeluter 422 system (Biorad, UK). Rabbits were immunized with 300 µg denatured protein and each immunization was performed in three week intervals. Serum before and after immunization was collected. For cytochemical applications the third bleed was used. Western blotting was performed following SDS-PAGE and transferring to a nitrocellulose membrane. Secondary antibodies goat anti-rabbit and goat anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-linked for the ECL system were from Chemicon (USA). Quanitative, Real Time PCR was performed as previously described CITATION, CITATION in a RG6000 (Corbett Research Pvt Ltd., Sydney, Australia) real time PCR system. Briefly, for short osmotic stress treatments, RNA was extracted from young leaves using the RNA extraction kit (see above) following treatment of 3-week old plants. Either water (control) or water solutions containing different NaCl concentrations were added to the point of overflow and samples from all treatments were collected at different time points. For plants germinated on media of different osmoticum concentrations, emerged seedlings were selected. Seedlings grown on high osmoticum media were of same size as the control seedlings and not of same sowing date since a significant delay in seed germination is recorded under osmotic stress conditions (3 days before for the 0.15 M NaCl treatment and 4–5 days before for the 0.4M mannitol and 0.2 M NaCl treatment). No significant differences in ROF protein/mRNA levels were recorded between 4 to 9 day old seedlings germinated on normal MS media (results not shown). Their RNA was extracted, cDNA was prepared and Q-PCR was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions using the Platinum Quantitative PCR SuperMix-UDG, SYTO9 (Invitrogen, USA) and the following primers: ROF1 forward: 5′CACCAATGTGAAGGCCTTATACC3; ROF1 reverse: 5′TCAAGACCTCAGGTGCTCATTGC3’; ROF2 forward: 5′TAGGAACGTGAAGGCAATGTATAG3’; ROF2 reverse: 5′TCAATACTCATCGCTTGTGCTTCC3’ UBQ7 forward: 5′GAAGGCATTCCACCTGACCAAC3’ UBQ7 reverse: 5′CAAGCACAAGAAGAAGAAGGTCAAG 3′. ROF1 and ROF2 fragment sizes were 255 bps and for the Ubiquitin 192 bps. Thermocycler conditions for all primer pairs were as follows: 50°C for 2 mins, 95°C for 2 mins, 36 cycles of 95°C for 5 secs and 60°C for 40 secs. Melting curve was performed from 70–90°C with reading every 0.2°C and 10 secs hold between reads. Quantitation of gene expression was performed CITATION. Relative gene expression was estimated using Ubiquitin CITATION as an internal control and CTs from triplicate reactions were recorded. Product identity was confirmed for each reaction using High Resolution Melting (HRM) by comparing the picks formed to the ones of the cloned and sequenced product CITATION. For protein detection following osmotic stress treatment, samples were collected as described for Real Time PCR. In any case, protein was extracted in Laemmli sample buffer and equal protein amount was loaded in each lane. Bromophenol blue was excluded from the sample buffer, in case the protein assay was performed following extraction using sample buffer, and was added before sample loading on the gel. Protein concentration was determined using the SDS/DTT compatible RC DC protein assay system (Biorad, US). Western blotting was performed as described in the previous section. ROF1 was sub-cloned in the PVKH18En6 binary vector for A. tumefaciens mediated transformation CITATION and protein expression in tobacco leaves was performed. The ROF1 construct was prepared using the following primers where the Xba and the Sal1 restriction sites were introduced: Forward: 5′CTAGTCTAGAATGGATGCTAATTTCGAGATGCC3′ Reverse: 5′ACGCGTCGACAATTCCTTACTTAGTTTCGCAAACAT3′. GFP-tagged protein expression was confirmed by western blotting using a rabbit αντι-GFP polyclonal antibody (Chemicon, USA). Entire seedlings (3–4 days old) were submerged in a Paraformaldehyde (PFA) solution prepared in 50 mM Pipes, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4 pH 7.0 KOH, for 1 hr with vacuum infiltration applied during the first 5 mins of incubation. Following washing in PBS and H2O, seedlings (mainly roots) were placed on top of slides (Superfrost plus-Menzel-Glaser, Germany) and allowed to dry overnight before they were kept at −20°C. After removal from −20°C, slides were placed in a dark humid chamber and immediately hydrated with a PBS buffer before applying 2% driselase in PBS and incubate for 45 mins at 37°C. After washing the driselase solution thoroughly, samples were incubated with 10% DMSO, 0.5% NP40 in PBS buffer for 1 hr at room temperature. Following removal of the permebilisation solution, 5% BSA was applied for 1 hr at room temperature followed by 1 hr incubation with αντι-ROF1 (1∶300) in 5% BSA at 37°C. Samples were further incubated overnight at 4°C with the antibody. Following first antibody washing with PBS, incubation was performed in the Cy3 goat anti-rabbit IgG (Jackson Immunoresearch, USA) for 4 hrs at 37°C. Following washing and DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) treatment, mounting solution (0.01% moviol in glycerol) was added and samples were observed under a fluorescence or confocal microscope. Localization studies of GFP-tagged ROF1 as well as immunofluorescence microscopy were performed using fluorescence and Confocal microscopy. Fluorescence microscopy was performed using an Axioskop 40 fluorescence microscope with a A-Plan Varel contrast 40x/0.65 (Zeiss, Germany). Images were captured using a ProgRes digital camera system from Jenoptic (Germany). For confocal microscopy two confocal microscopes were used; Live cell imaging was performed using a laser Scanning confocal Microscope TCS SP5 SN: 5100000134 with an HCX PL APO CS 63.0×1.20 water UV lens. A pinhole 1 and 1.6 zoom were used. Scan speed was 400 Hz. Resolution was 1024×1024 with 8 bits/pixel. Excitation was achieved with a 488 Argon laser for the GFP and a DPSS 561 for the RFP. Emission bandwidth for GFP was 504.0 nm–521.2 nm and the emission bandwidth for RFP 574.2 nm - 620.1 nm. Fixed tissue imaging was performed using an HC X PLAPO CS 40.0×0.85 dry lens. Pinhole was 2, zoom 1.7 and resolution 1024×1024. Excitation was achieved using a 405 nm Diode for DAPI and a 561 DPSS for Cy3 red fluorescence. Emission bandwidth for DAPI was 423 nm –475.6 nm and the emission bandwidth for Cy3 567 nm –619.4 nm. Image analysis was performed using the LAS AF software version 2.1.0 as well as the ImageJ (Java) software. Also, a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope with a EC Plan-Neofluar 40x/1.30 oil DIC M27 objective was used. Scan zoom was 2. Resolution was 1024×1024 with 8 bits/pixel. Excitation was achieved with a 488 Argon laser. Emission filters were the BP 505–530 for GFP and LP 615 for chloroplast autofluorescence. Columbia wild type as well as the rof1− heterozygous plants on a Columbia background, salk_003069, Sail_276_E11 and WiscDsLox502D06 of the Wisconsin DsLox T-DNA lines, were obtained from NASC. Following screening, seeds obtained from the second generation were used in downstream applications. rof1−, rof2−, rof1−/2−, ROF1OE, and rof1− complemented mutants on a Wassilevskija background as well as Wassilevskija wild type plants were also used and were a gift from Prof. Adina Breiman CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. A. thaliana seeds of the wild type and mutant lines were disinfected with 70% ethanol for 2 mins and 10% sodium hypochloride for 5 mins. Following a 4–5 day treatment at 4°C to break dormancy, they were seeded on 0.8% agar plates with 1x MS/vitamins containing –where required- NaCl or mannitol. For each characterized line 230–270 seeds were spread on a petri dish. Germination kinetics was determined by recording radicle emergence time after transfer from the stratification conditions to the growth chamber. Plates were scanned in an HP scanjet 4800 series and measurements were performed on the scanned images or under a stereoscope. Germination percentage of WSROF1OE and WSrof1−/2− seeds was recorded at different time points. Following stratification, seeds were germinated in 24 well plates on whatman paper, in water, under dark conditions, at 22°C in the presence or absence of 0.1 M NaCl and in the presence or absence of 33 µM wortmannin (Calbiochem, Germany) or 60 µM LY294002 (Calbiochem, Germany) dissolved in DMSO. An equivalent amount of DMSO was added in the case of the inhibitor absence. The experiment was performed in replicates so that at the end of each time point seeds were collected, scanned and their germination percentage was assessed. The entire experiment was repeated 4 times.
