!~ABS~! MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are processed from primary transcripts that contain partially self-complementary foldbacks. As in animals, the core microprocessor in plants is a Dicer protein, DICER-LIKE1 (DCL1). Processing accuracy and strand selection is greatly enhanced through the RNA binding protein HYPONASTIC LEAVES 1 (HYL1) and the zinc finger protein SERRATE (SE). We have combined a luciferase-based genetic screen with whole-genome sequencing for rapid identification of new regulators of miRNA biogenesis and action. Among the first six mutants analyzed were three alleles of C-TERMINAL DOMAIN PHOSPHATASE-LIKE 1 (CPL1)/FIERY2 (FRY2). In the miRNA processing complex, SE functions as a scaffold to mediate CPL1 interaction with HYL1, which needs to be dephosphorylated for optimal activity. In the absence of CPL1, HYL1 dephosphorylation and hence accurate processing and strand selection from miRNA duplexes are compromised. Our findings thus define a new regulatory step in plant miRNA biogenesis.
!~RES~! To efficiently identify new factors required for activity of the miRNA pathway, we developed a robust reporter system. Firefly luciferase (LUC) was first expressed from the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and then silenced with a ubiquitously expressed artificial miRNA (miR-LUC), designed to avoid targeting of endogenous genes (CITATION) (CITATION A and CITATIONA available online). Plants expressing LUC and miR-LUC from the same transgene were extensively characterized to ensure that silencing was due to the miR-LUC. We examined LUC mRNA expression and miR-LUC accumulation in lines that were homozygous for a single transgene insertion (CITATIONB–S1D). Specific miRNA-mediated luciferase mRNA cleavage was confirmed by 5′ RACE (CITATIONE). Based on these results, we selected line 2, which had minimal luciferase expression with a moderate level of miR-LUC. To confirm that silencing was not due to siRNA-dependent silencing, we crossed this line to hyl1-2 mutants, in which miRNA activity is compromised, and to rdr6-12 mutants, which do not produce secondary siRNAs. Additionally, transgenic plants coexpressing a miRNA-resistant version of LUC (rLUC) and miR-LUC were examined. Luminescence was recovered after crossing the reporter to hyl1-2 and by mutating the miRNA-complementary motif in rLUC plants (CITATIONF–S1H). As expected, miR-LUC accumulation was reduced, and LUC expression was increased in hyl1-2. Similarly, the rLUC plants had normal levels of miR-LUC but high luciferase mRNA levels (CITATIONI). Together, these observations confirmed both the specificity of the system and provided a proof of concept that the desired type of mutations could be identified with our reporter assay. After ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis of seeds and selfing of treated plants, 5-day-old M2 seedlings were screened en masse for increased luminescence. In approximately 500,000 M2 individuals, derived from about 250 pools of 40 M1 plants each, we found over 60 seedlings with increased LUC activity, at least 30 of which luminesced much more strongly than the controls. Although the LUC assay is very efficient, we may not have recovered strongly growth-retarded mutants, which would not produce sufficient LUC signal. This may explain the relatively low rate of potential mutants found. For further analysis, we focused on six lines that had gained particularly strong luminescence. Mutants were crossed to nontransgenic plants from the Ler-1 accession and plants with strong luminescence were selected in the F2 generation for mapping. These plants must have contained at least one copy of the transgene and been homozygous for any recessive mutation that suppressed LUC silencing. The genomes of pools of between 150 and 200 plants were sequenced to at least 20-fold coverage on the Illumina platform. Single genomic regions without Ler-1-derived polymorphisms were identified in each cross, and new mutations were called in the final mapping intervals (CITATION). Two of the mutations turned out to map to DCL1, and both had EMS-typical lesions. The two new alleles are now called dcl1-25 and dcl1-26. A third line had a mutation in HYL1 and was named hyl1-3 (CITATIONJ). The identification of new dcl1 and hyl1 alleles validated the functionality of our reporter system. The causal locus in the three other lines was mapped to the same small region on chromosome 4 (CITATIONB). The only gene in which all three had newly induced mutations was CPL1/FRY2 (At4g21670), which encodes a protein with two DRBMs and a phosphatase domain. This gene has been identified before in mutant screens based on inappropriate activation of a stress-responsive reporter (CITATION; CITATION) (CITATIONC). To exclude that suppression of luciferase silencing was due to altered expression of transgene-derived transcripts, we measured expression of the transgene-encoded Basta resistance marker, expressed from the NOS promoter. No significant effect of the cpl1 mutation was observed (CITATIONK). We also introgressed mCherry, which was expressed under control of the same promoter as miR-LUC and luciferase, the 35S promoter, into the parental and mutant lines. Again, no difference was observed (CITATIONK). To confirm that the three mutants were allelic to CPL1/FRY2, we first crossed our reporter to T-DNA insertion lines cpl1-8 (GABI_165H09) and cpl1-9 (GABI_849A10). Both showed the same activation of the silenced LUC reporter as the EMS mutants (CITATIONA). Conversely, transformation of a CPL1/FRY2 genomic fragment into each of our three mutant reporter lines reestablished silencing of the reporter (CITATIONA). We conclude that mutations in CPL1/FRY2 are responsible for increased LUC activity in the three EMS mutants. Two of the new alleles, cpl1-5 and cpl1-6, had premature stop codons, whereas cpl1-7 had a missense mutation affecting the phosphatase domain. We focused our subsequent analysis on cpl1-6 and cpl1-7. To investigate whether cpl1 mutations had a general effect on miRNA-mediated silencing, we first assayed two well-characterized miRNA targets, SPL3 and TCP4. Both mRNAs accumulated to higher levels in cpl1 mutants than in wild-type (CITATION A), consistent with compromised miRNA-dependent mRNA cleavage and degradation. We subsequently used RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to confirm more broadly that mutations in CPL1 and its close homolog CPL2 (CITATION) have similar effects on miRNA target expression as se and hyl1 mutations (see below). RNA blots did not indicate that the amounts of miRNAs were substantially altered (CITATIONB). Because factors such as SE and HYL1 affect the precision of miRNA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we quantified accumulation of exact miRNA sequences by using reverse transcription followed by quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR). We found that several miRNAs were decreased by 3- to 9-fold. The strongest reduction was seen in cpl1-7, although even cpl1-7 was less strongly affected than se or hyl1 mutants (CITATIONC). Next, we compared on a whole-genome level small RNAs from wild-type plants and cpl1, hyl1, and se mutants. Mapping of small RNAs to known MIRNA loci revealed that several miRNAs were misprocessed in cpl1 mutants, even where the absolute miRNA amount was similar to that of wild-type (CITATIOND and 2E and CITATION A). Although there was no evidence for aberrant siRNA expression patterns, we detected fewer ta-siRNAs, which are dependent on miRNA as triggers, in the mutants (CITATIONB). There were also no reads that mapped to the LUC transgene, confirming the miRNA dependency of LUC silencing. From several MIRNA loci, cpl1 mutants accumulated more miRNA∗s than wild-type. Inaccurate processing and aberrant strand accumulation are features shared with hyl1-2 mutants, suggesting a link in between CPL1 and HYL1 (CITATION). Clustering data sets by genome-wide coverage profiles of small RNAs within 20 bases of either side of mature miRNAs confirmed that the profiles of cpl1 mutants were more similar to those of hyl1 than to those of wild-type (CITATIONC). However, in contrast to hyl1 and se, levels of unprocessed pri-miRNA transcripts were not increased in cpl1 mutants (CITATIONG). To determine where CPL1 acts to affect miRNA processing and sorting, we made use of a GFP fusion. Expression of this fusion under endogenous regulatory sequences complemented cpl1-7 mutants (CITATION A) and CPL1-GFP accumulated in nuclear bodies (CITATION A). Because of the possible link between CPL1 and HYL1, we compared the subcellular localization of CPL1, HYL1, SE, and DCL1 by using transient expression of fluorescent protein-tagged fusion proteins in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Confocal microscopy revealed that CPL1 colocalizes with DCL1, HYL1, and SE. In some nuclei, all four proteins were detected in nuclear bodies, known sites of DCL1, HYL1, and SE accumulation (CITATIONB) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In other nuclei, the proteins were distributed more evenly (CITATIONB and S3C). Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) confirmed that HYL1, SE, and CPL1 form a complex (CITATIONC and 3D). In a yeast two-hybrid assay, SE could interact with CPL1; this was similar to the interaction of SE with HYL1 (CITATION). However, no interaction was observed between CPL1 and HYL1, suggesting that interaction of the two in the plant nucleus is indirect or that SE stabilizes the interaction (CITATION A and CITATION ). Such a scenario was supported by the positive results of a yeast three-hybrid assay, in which SE can serve as a bridge for the CPL1 and HYL1 bait and prey proteins (CITATIONB). We conclude that SE acts as a platform for a transient interaction between CPL1 and HYL1, often in nuclear bodies, the location of the plant microprocessor. In addition to a nuclear localization signal and two DRBMs, CPL1 has a domain that is shared with yeast and human Fcp1 phosphatases (CITATION). In vitro, this domain can dephosphorylate the serine-containing C-terminal heptad repeat domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (CITATION), and a potential link to transcription may be inferred from the reduced accumulation of some pri-miRNAs in cpl1 mutants (CITATIONG). The interaction with SE and HYL1, however, suggested as an alternative that at least one of them is dephosphorylated by CPL1. With the help of Phos-tag, a compound that decreases the mobility of phosphorylated proteins in polyacrylamide gels (CITATION), we detected two different phosphoisoforms of HYL1 but not of SE (CITATION A and CITATION A). The identity of the protein that reacted with the anti-HYL1 antibody was confirmed with protein extracted from hyl1 mutants, and the phosphorylated status of the more slowly migrating form of HYL1 was confirmed with lambda protein phosphatase. Notably, in cpl1-6 and cpl1-7 mutants, only the phosphorylated form of HYL1 was found (CITATIONA). In material that coimmunoprecipitated with eGFP-CPL1, the hypophosphorylated form of HYL1 was enriched, supporting the role of CPL1 as a HYL1 phosphatase (CITATIONA). The finding that CPL1 dephosphorylates HYL1 raised the question of whether processing accuracy and strand selection are affected by the phosphorylation status of HYL1 activity, which could explain some of the defects seen in cpl1 mutants. We therefore generated versions of HYL1 that mimicked either the phosphorylated form or that could no longer be phosphorylated. The NetPhos 2.0 algorithm (CITATION) predicted seven serine residues in and around the two DRBMs as potential phosphorylation sites (CITATIONB). To mimic unphosphorylated HYL1, we replaced all seven serine with alanine codons. To mimic fully phosphorylated HYL1, we mutated all seven to aspartate or glutamate codons. HYL1 cDNAs encoding either the wild-type or mutant versions were linked to the HYL1 promoter and transformed into hyl1 mutants. All transgenes were expressed at similar levels, but only the wild-type protein and the alanine mutant complemented the hyl1 phenotype and restored miRNA production (CITATIONB and CITATIONC–S5F). By mutating individual serine codons, we identified the highly conserved S42, located in the first DRBM of HYL1, and S159, located in the second DRBM, as particularly important for HYL1 function (CITATIONB) (CITATION). Moreover, we detected HYL1-containing nuclear bodies in cells transformed with eGFP-tagged versions of the hypophosphorylation mimic, but not with the hyperphosphorylation mimic (CITATIONG), suggesting that phosphorylation of the DRBMs alters HYL1 recruitment to the processing complex. We also introduced mutant HYL1 versions into cpl1 mutants. Only the hypophosphorylation mimic partially suppressed increased reporter activity (CITATIONC), improved miRNA accumulation, and restored normal morphology (CITATIONH and S5I), consistent with increased HYL1 phosphorylation as cause of the cpl1 mutant phenotype. We found that the hypophosphorylated form of HYL1 was reduced in se mutants, in support of a role of SE as a scaffold for the HYL1 dephosphorylation by CPL1 (CITATIOND). The results presented so far suggested that serine phosphorylation reduces HYL1 activity. Although even the version in which seven serines had been replaced still appeared to contain phosphate groups (CITATIONE), hypophosphorylated HYL1 was not detected when the constructs were introduced into the cpl1-7 background (CITATIONF), suggesting that phosphorylation of other residues in HYL1 is also CPL1 dependent. To identify such additional phosphorylation sites, we purified HYL1 and performed TiO2 phosphopeptide enrichment followed by mass spectrometry. We identified the peptide EAAFGSVETEK as being phosphorylated. The reference allele of HYL1 encodes a protein with six tandem repeats of this peptide at the carboxy terminus, facilitating the detection of this peptide (CITATIONG). Rescue experiments with truncated HYL1 versions have indicated that these repeats are only of minor importance for miRNA processing (CITATION). In agreement, we found that the number of repeats varies greatly between Arabidopsis thaliana accessions and between A. thaliana and its relatives (CITATIONG). The effects of the phosphomutant versions of HYL1 indicated that CPL1-mediated dephosphorylation was required for full HYL1 activity, although all cpl1 alleles were phenotypically less aberrant than hyl1 mutants (CITATION A). One potential explanation was redundancy of CPL1 with its close homolog CPL2 because cpl1 cpl2 double mutants are embryonic lethal (CITATION). Plants that were homozygous for cpl2-2 and heterozygous for our strongest allele, cpl1-7, were more similar to hyl1 mutants than to cpl1-7 single mutants in stature, LUC activity, and miRNA accumulation (CITATIONB–6D and CITATION A). These plants also had slightly lower pri-miRNA levels than cpl1 single mutants (CITATIONG), perhaps reflecting an additional role of CPL1 and CPL2 in pri-miRNA transcription. Further evidence for CPL1 and CPL2 proteins acting in the same process came from the observation that our strongest allele cpl1-7 has a nonsynonymous substitution in the phosphatase domain (CITATIONC). We speculate that the mutant protein blocks access of CPL2 to the processing complex, this would be similar to other cases of cryptic redundancy between closely related enzymes (CITATION). To determine whether CPL1 and CPL2 might also affect processes downstream of miRNA processing, we analyzed miRNA that coimmunoprecipitated with AGO1. There was no evidence for differential AGO1 loading of miR160 or miR319 in cpl mutants (CITATIONB). Only a small fraction of miRNA targets is robustly upregulated in seedlings or adult plants when components of the plant microprocessor are compromised (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). RNA-seq confirmed that many miRNA targets that are increased in hyl1-2 or se-3 mutants are also elevated in cpl1-7/+ cpl2-2 plants (CITATIONE–6G). In agreement with CPL1/2 having additional functions outside of miRNA biogenesis (CITATION), more genes were affected in cpl1-7/+ cpl2-2 than hyl1-2 and se-3 mutants (CITATIONC). A potential role of CPL1 as a transcriptional repressor (CITATION) was not supported by our data because a similar number of genes was up- or downregulated in cpl1-7/+ cpl2-2 plants (CITATIONC).
!~MM~! Plants were grown on soil at 23°C or MS plates with 0.4% agar in 16 hr light/8 hr dark. ago1-27, cpl2-2, hyl1-2, rdr6-12, and se-3 mutants have been described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). M2 seeds were assayed for LUC activity 5 days after germination with an Orca 2-BT cooled CCD camera (Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu, Japan). M3 plants were crossed to accession Ler-1, genomic DNA was extracted from mutant F2 pools and sequenced on an Illumina GAIIx (Illumina, San Diego, CA). SHOREmap v2.0 (CITATION) was used to localize and identify extended regions with maximal ratio of Col-0/Ler-1 reads. Candidate mutations were identified as EMS-typical C:G > T:A transitions predicted to cause nonsynonymous substitutions. See CITATION for a detailed list of constructs, names, and descriptions. pGREEN was used as transformation vector (CITATIONA). MiR-LUC was designed with WMD3 (http://wmd3.weigelworld.org/) (CITATION) (CITATION). For A. thaliana, at least 15 T2 independent lines were analyzed for each construct. Infiltration of N. benthamiana leaves for transient expression was as described (CITATION). We performed quantitative RT-PCR by using biological triplicates and technical duplicates with RNA extracted from 15-day-old seedlings. Replicates were treated as independent samples. Averages and SEM were calculated from 2-ΔΔCt values. p values of less than 0.05 in a t test with Bonferroni's correction were considered significant. Mature miRNAs were quantified by qRT-PCR (CITATION). MiRNA-induced cleavage products were detected with RNA ligase-mediated 5′ RACE (CITATION). See CITATION for oligonucleotide primers and probes. Illumina sequencing and analysis of duplicate small RNA libraries from 21-day-old rosette leaves were as described (CITATION). For each miRNA locus, normalized coverage was calculated with 18- to 24-nucleotide-long sRNA reads for 20 base pairs on each side of the mature miRNA sequence and concatenated. Using R (http://www.r-project.org), we calculated the pairwise Manhattan distances for the obtained vectors and used them to perform hierarchical clustering. To evaluate processing accuracy, we calculated the ratio of mutant/wild-type misprocessed miRNAs for each combination. Hairpin misprocessing was calculated as the ratio between the reads mapping to the miRNA precursor and those exactly mapping the canonical miRNA. Only highly expressed miRNAs (at least 15 reads in each replicate) were considered for the analysis. RNA-seq with RNA from 15-day-old seedlings was as described (CITATION). Stably transformed A. thaliana plants or N. benthamiana leaves 3 days after infiltration were imaged on a TCS SP2 confocal microscope (Leica, Solms, Germany). For co-IP (CITATION), we used GFP-Trap (ChromoTek, Planegg-Martinsried, Germany) and antibodies against HYL1 (Agrisera, Vännäs, Sweden), AGO1 (Agrisera), and SE (this study; validated with se mutants). Fluorescent protein fusions were detected with a GFP antibody (Abcam, Cambridge, UK). Proteins were extracted from 300 mg ground tissue with 300 μl extraction buffer (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% [v/v] Glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM Pefablock, and one tablet Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail [Roche]). Phosphoisoforms were separated in gels with 50 μM Phos-Tag (Wako Chemicals, Neuss, Germany) and 100 μM MnCl2. Standard wet tank transfer was used for Phos-tag gels, semidry blotting for other gels. α-tubulin, detected with a monoclonal antibody (Sigma), served as loading control. Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed with the ProQuest Two-Hybrid System (Life Technologies). To reduce autoactivation of CPL1, 80 to 120 mM of 3-AT (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole) was added to the selection medium. For three-hybrid assays, we used ProQuest clones for HYL1 and CPL1 plus SE expressed from a pYES-Dest52 vector (Life Technologies). Fusions to the N-terminal and C-terminal fragments of citrine were used for BiFC assays (CITATION). eGFP-tagged HYL1 was isolated from N. benthamiana leaves. Three days after infiltration, leaves with high levels of the fusion protein were selected under an MZ FLIII Fluo Combi stereomicroscope (Leica) and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total protein was extracted with 2:1 v/w of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, 1 × Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail [Roche], 1 mM Pefablock, and 2 v PhosSTOP [Roche]). eGFP-tagged HYL1 was purified with GFP-Trap (ChromoTek) and resolved in a NuPAGE Novex 10% Bis-Tris Gel (Life Technologies). A small fraction was transferred to a membrane for blot detection of the HYL1-eGFP band, and the rest was stained with Colloidal Blue (Life Technologies). Protein was in-gel digested with trypsin (CITATION). Acetonitrile was added to a final concentration of 30% and pH was adjusted to pH 2 to 3. Enrichment of phosphopeptides by TiO2 chromatography was as described (CITATION). Phosphopeptides were analyzed on a Proxeon Easy-LC system (Proxeon Biosystems, Dreieich, Germany) coupled to an LTQ-Orbitrap-XL (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) equipped with a nanoelectrospray ion source (Proxeon Biosystems, Denmark) (CITATION). The five most intense precursor ions were fragmented by activation of neutral loss ions at −98, −49, and −32.6 relative to the precursor ion (multistage activation). Mass spectra were analyzed with MaxQuant v1.0.14.3 (CITATION). Masses were compared with a target-decoy A. thaliana database (ipi.ARATH.v3.82). Spectra of modified peptides were manually validated.
