!~ABS~! The plant NADPH oxidases, known as respiratory burst oxidase homologues (Rbohs), play an indispensable role in a wide array of cellular and developmental processes. Arabidopsis thaliana RbohF (AtRbohF)-mediated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is involved in biotic and abiotic stress responses. Because of the toxicity of excess amount of ROS, the ROS-producing activity of Rbohs is speculated to be negatively regulated. However, its mechanism is mostly unknown to date. Here, we report the identification of calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinase 26 (CIPK26) as a novel regulatory factor of AtRbohF. We isolated CIPK26 as an AtRbohF-interacting partner by a yeast two-hybrid screen. Our co-immunoprecipitation assay revealed that the CIPK26 protein interacts with the N-terminal region of AtRbohF in Nicotiana benthamiana cell extracts. The fluorescence of both GFP-tagged CIPK26 and AtRbohF was predominantly observed at the cell periphery. We also showed that co-expression of CIPK26 decreases the ROS-producing activity of AtRbohF in HEK293T cells. Together, these results suggest that the direct binding of CIPK26 to AtRbohF negatively modulates ROS production and play a role in the regulation of ROS signalling in plants.
!~RES~! We performed a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify AtRbohF-interacting proteins from the Arabidopsis cDNA library. We used the N-terminal region of AtRbohF (AtRbohFN; amino acid residues 1–387) as a bait because this region, which contains two EF-hand motifs (Fig. 1A), is known to play a key role in the regulation of the Rboh activity (CITATION, CITATION). The full-length AtRbohF was not suitable for this yeast two-hybrid system because it possesses multiple TM helices (Fig. 1A). Screening of 4.56 × 106 yeast transformants resulted in isolation of a fragment containing the NAF and protein–phosphatase interaction (PPI) motifs of CIPK26 (amino acid residues 300–429) (Fig. 1A). The NAF domain (designated according to the conserved amino acids N, A and F) is unique to Ca2+-regulated kinases and responsible for the CBL–CIPK interaction. PPI domain mediates interaction with 2C-type protein phosphatase-type phosphatase. Cells co-expressing both the full-length CIPK26 and AtRbohFN were able to grow in the absence of histidine (Fig. 1B), indicating that CIPK26 interacted with the N-terminal region of AtRbohF in yeast cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine whether AtRbohF interacts with CIPK26 in vivo, we performed Co-IP experiments. The N-terminal FLAG-tagged AtRbohFN (FLAG-AtRbohFN) and the N-terminal Myc-tagged full-length CIPK26 (Myc-CIPK26) were transiently co-expressed in N. benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration. The cell extracts from leaves were subjected to immunoprecipitation using anti-FLAG antibodies, and the immunocomplexes were analysed by Western blotting with anti-Myc antibodies. As shown in Fig. 2, Myc-CIPK26 was co-immunoprecipitated with FLAG-AtRbohFN (Fig. 2), indicating that CIPK26 interacts with the N-terminal region of AtRbohF in vivo.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] This observation suggests that CIPK26 could be localized around AtRbohF in plant cells. To test this idea, we transiently expressed the N-terminal GFP-tagged CIPK26 (GFP-CIPK26) or AtRbohF (GFP-AtRbohF) in onion epidermal cells by biolistic bombardment. AtRbohF has been biochemically shown as an intrinsic plasma membrane protein that possesses six TM helices (CITATION). Consistently, the fluorescence of GFP-AtRbohF was observed at the cell periphery (Fig. 3, upper panel), supporting that AtRbohF is localized to the plasma membrane. The fluorescence of GFP-CIPK26 was also predominantly observed at the cell periphery (Fig. 3, middle panel) suggesting that CIPK26 is mainly distributed at the cell periphery in the vicinity of the plasma membrane or in the cytosol. In contrast, free GFP was distributed throughout the cytosol including the cytoplasmic strands and the nuclei (Fig. 3, lower panel). These results support the idea that some of CIPK26 could be associated with AtRbohF at the cell periphery.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next asked whether CIPK26 modulates the ROS-producing activity of AtRbohF. To this end, FLAG-tagged full-length AtRbohF (FLAG-AtRbohF) was co-transfected with either Myc-CIPK26 or Myc-GFP into HEK293T cells, and the AtRbohF-mediated ROS production was measured by a luminol-amplified chemiluminescence technique. As AtRbohF is known to be activated by Ca2+ (CITATION), we added to the co-transfected HEK293T cells ionomycin, a Ca2+ ionophore that induces Ca2+ influx into cells. Ionomycin-induced AtRbohF activation resulted in a transient and rapid production of ROS in the cells co-expressing FLAG-AtRbohF and Myc-GFP, but not in the cells carrying the empty vector control (Fig. 4A). Interestingly, this AtRbohF-mediated ROS production was reduced in the cells co-expressing Myc-CIPK26 than the cells co-expressing Myc-GFP (Fig. 4A). The observed reduction of ROS levels is not due to a decreased AtRbohF protein level in the Myc-CIPK26-expressing cells. Indeed, our Western blot analysis showed that co-expression of Myc-CIPK26 did not significantly affect the AtRbohF protein level (Fig. 4B). These results indicate that CIPK26 represses the ROS-producing activity of AtRbohF in HEK293T cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtRbohF is activated by its phosphorylation and Ca2+ (CITATION). However, it had been unclear how the activity of AtRbohF is negatively regulated in plant cells. In this study, we elucidated that CIPK26, a putative protein kinase, interacts with AtRbohF and represses the ROS-producing activity of AtRbohF. We propose two mechanisms by which CIPK26 represses the activity of AtRbohF. In the first model, binding of CIPK26 to AtRbohF may inhibit a proper conformational change of the N-terminal region of AtRbohF. It has been suggested that a Ca2+-induced conformational change of the EF-hand region of AtRbohD is critical for its ROS-producing activity (CITATION). A similar conformational change in AtRbohF may be blocked by the direct interaction of CIPK26 with AtRbohF. Another possibility is that a CIPK26-mediated phosphorylation of specific residues in AtRbohF represses its ROS-producing activity. The yeast ABC transporter Ycf1p is positively regulated by phosphorylation on its ABC core domain, while it is negatively regulated by phosphorylation on the N-terminal extension (CITATION). AtRbohF has been reported to possess multiple phosphorylation sites (CITATION). In addition, the NetPhos 2.0 Server (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPhos/) predicted at least 50 Ser/Thr residues as potential phosphorylation sites in AtRbohF. Thus, the activity of AtRbohF may be positively or negatively regulated depending on which target sites are phosphorylated by the associated kinase. In any case, we have shown that CIPK26 directly binds AtRbohF to negatively modulate its ROS-producing activity. This interaction may play a role in the regulation of ROS signalling in plants. The protein kinase activities of CIPKs are regulated by CBLs (CITATION). Future analyses on the interrelationship among CIPKs, CBLs and Rbohs should further reveal how the ROS-producing activity of Rboh proteins is regulated positively and negatively.
!~MM~! The coding DNA sequences (CDSs) of AtRbohF (At1g64060), AtRbohFN (amino acid residues 1–387) and CIPK26 (At5g21326) were PCR-amplified from a cDNA library of A. thaliana. For yeast two-hybrid assays, the CDSs of AtRbohFN and CIPK26 were cloned into pGBKT7 and pGADT7 (Clontech), respectively. For co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), the CDSs of AtRbohFN and CIPK26 were PCR-amplified with primers containing the 3 × FLAG sequence and the 3 × Myc sequence, respectively. Then, the PCR fragments of 3 × Myc-tagged CIPK26 and 3 × FLAG-tagged AtRbohFN were independently cloned into the multiple cloning site 1 (MCS1) of pRI201-AN (TaKaRa). For expression of GFP fusion proteins, the PCR-amplified CaMV35S promoter fragments, the CDS of AcGFP (TaKaRa) and the NOS terminator fragments were cloned into pBluescript II SK(+). Subsequently, the CDSs of CIPK26 and AtRbohF were independently cloned in frame with the N-terminal AcGFP tag. For the measurement of ROS, the synthesized 3 × Myc fragment was first cloned into the MCS of pIRES2-EGFP (Clontech), resulting in p3 × Myc-IRES2-EGFP. Then, the CDS of AtRbohF was PCR-amplified with primers containing the 3 × FLAG sequence and cloned into p3 × Myc-IRES2-EGFP by replacing the EGFP cassette with 3 × FLAG-tagged AtRbohF, resulting in p3 × Myc-IRES2-3 × FLAG-AtRbohF. Subsequently, the CDSs of CIPK26 and GFP were cloned in frame with the N-terminal Myc tag into p3 × Myc-IRES2-3 × FLAG-AtRbohF, resulting in p3 × Myc-CIPK26-IRES2-3 × FLAG-AtRbohF and p3 × Myc-GFP-IRES2-3 × FLAG-AtRbohF, respectively. For cDNA library construction, total RNA was isolated from 7-day-old seedlings of A. thaliana (the Columbia accession). Reverse transcription of the total RNA was performed by the MMLV reverse transcriptase (Clontech). The resultant cDNAs were cloned into pGADT7, the yeast two-hybrid prey vector, using the Matchmaker™ library construction and screening kit (Clontech) according to the manufacture’s protocol. For yeast two-hybrid assays, the bait and prey vectors were transformed into AH109 yeast cells, and the resultant transformants were incubated overnight at 30°C in SD medium lacking tryptophan and leucine. To detect protein–protein interactions, dilution series of the transformed cells was spotted on SD medium lacking tryptophan, leucine and histidine. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 MP90 carrying expression construct was grown in LB medium overnight at 28°C. Cells were harvested and resuspended in infiltration buffer (10 mM MgCl2, 100 µg/ml acetosyringone). Bacterial suspensions were incubated for 8 h at 22°C and adjusted to an OD600 of 0.8. For Co-IP assays, equal volumes of two Agrobacterium strains (FLAG-AtRbohFN and Myc-CIPK26) were mixed and infiltrated into the leaves of ∼30-day-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Leaves were harvested 2 days after infiltration for subsequent protein extraction. Total proteins were extracted from agroinfiltrated leaves of N. benthamiana in extraction buffer [50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 10 mM NaF, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, 1 mM CaCl2, 1 × Proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Roche) and 1 mM EDTA]. After incubation for 2 h in a rotary shaker at 4°C, the lysates were centrifuged at 20,400 × g for 25 min at 4°C. The resultant supernatants were incubated with anti-FLAG® M2 affinity gel (Sigma-Aldrich) in a rotary shaker overnight at 4°C to capture the immune complexes. The affinity gels were collected and washed three times with 0.5 ml of TBS buffer [50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) and 150 mM NaCl]. Immunoprecipitated proteins were eluted by competition with 3 × FLAG® peptides (Sigma-Aldrich) and analysed by Western blotting using anti-c-Myc monoclonal antibodies (Wako) and anti-FLAG® M2 monoclonal antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich). Microprojectiles were prepared with 4 µg of GFP-fused constructs per shot and bombarded into onion epidermal cells by Biolistic® PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacture’s protocol. Expression and localization of the GFP fusion proteins in the cell were detected by a LSM5 EXITER confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). These methods were previously described (CITATION). Briefly, HEK293T cells were maintained at 37°C in 5% CO2 in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium containing 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum. HEK293T cells were transiently transfected with GeneJuice® transfection reagent (Novagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. ROS production was detected by a luminol-amplified chemiluminescence technique. Chemiluminescence was measured every minute using a microplate luminometer Centro LB960 (Berthold Technologies). ROS production levels were presented in relative luminescence units (RLU). The maximum value of the luminescence unit (activity) was set at 1.0. Data were presented as the average of three or four samples in a representative experiment.
