!~ABS~! Chloroplasts change their position to adapt cellular activities to fluctuating environmental light conditions. Phototropins (phot1 and phot2 in Arabidopsis) are plant-specific blue light photoreceptors that perceive changes in light intensity and direction, and mediate actin-based chloroplast photorelocation movements. Both phot1 and phot2 regulate the chloroplast accumulation response, while phot2 is mostly responsible for the regulation of the avoidance response. Although it has been widely accepted that distinct intracellular localizations of phototropins are implicated in the specificity, the mechanism underlying the phot2-specific avoidance response has remained elusive. In this study, we examined the relationship of the phot2 localization pattern to the chloroplast photorelocation movement. First, the fusion of a nuclear localization signal with phot2, which effectively reduced the amount of phot2 in the cytoplasm, retained the activity for both the accumulation and avoidance responses, indicating that membrane-localized phot2 but not cytoplasmic phot2 is functional to mediate the responses. Importantly, some fractions of phot2, and of phot1 to a lesser extent, were localized on the chloroplast outer membrane. Moreover, the deletion of the C-terminal region of phot2, which was previously shown to be defective in blue light-induced Golgi localization and avoidance response, affected the localization pattern on the chloroplast outer membrane. Taken together, these results suggest that dynamic phot2 trafficking from the plasma membrane to the Golgi apparatus and the chloroplast outer membrane might be involved in the avoidance response.
!~RES~! phot2 shows multiple localization patterns such as the main plasma membrane localization, the light-induced Golgi association and the cytoplasmic distribution (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To characterize the functional role of the cytosolic fraction of phot2, we produced transgenic plants expressing PHOT2-green fluorescent protein (GFP) (P2G) and P2G fused with the nuclear localization signal (NLS) (P2G–NLS) or nuclear export signal (NES) (P2G–NES) in the phot1phot2 double mutant background under the authentic PHOT2 promoter (P2-P2G, P2-P2G–NLS and P2-P2G–NES lines). We obtained several independent lines of P2-P2G, P2-P2G–NLS and P2-P2G–NES in the T3 generation. Immunoblot analysis confirmed that these transgenic plants expressed P2G, P2G–NLS and P2G–NES at the expected sizes (around 130 kDa) (Supplementary Fig. S1A, Supplementary Data). P2G expression was in a range of no expression (19-3), low expression (5-3, 11-2), moderate expression (10-1, 21-2) and high expression (4-1, 25-6) compared with that of endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plant (Supplementary Fig. S1A). P2G–NES expression was also varied and grouped into high expression (12-1), moderate expression (10-4, 24-2) or low expression (16-5) compared with that of endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plant (Supplementary Fig. S1B). However, P2G–NLS expressions were lower than that of endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plant (Supplementary Fig. S1B). Of those, P2-P2G–NES 12-1 and 24-2 for P2G–NES, P2-P2G–NLS 3-4 and 15-1 for P2G–NLS, and P2-P2G 4-1 and 21-2 for P2G were chosen as representative lines for the following experiments. Careful protein fractionation analysis of P2G in P2-P2G transgenic plants indicated that certain amounts of P2G were detected in the soluble fraction compared with endogenous phot2 in the wild type and phot1 mutant, although the majority of P2G was recovered in the pelleted fraction, with increased amounts to some extent (Fig. 1A). As P2G expression in the P2-P2G 4-1 line was slightly higher than that in P2-P2G 21-2, the ratios of P2G in the soluble fraction proportionally increased dependent on the expression levels of P2G. Similarly, both P2G–NLS and P2G–NES were also detected mainly in the pelleted fraction rather than the soluble fraction (Fig. 1B), suggesting that the fusion of the NLS and NES did not affect the membrane localization activity of phot2. However, the soluble fraction of P2G–NLS could be contributed by the nuclear-localized rather than the cytoplasmic-localized P2G–NLS (see below).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next verified the intracellular localizations of P2G, P2G–NLS and P2G–NES proteins in the mesophyll and epidermal cells of rosette leaves. The GFP fluorescence of P2G was strongly observed in the cell periphery and faintly in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C, i–iii). The GFP fluorescence of P2G–NLS was observed not only in the plasma membrane but also in the nucleus, but no cytosolic signal was observed (Fig. 1C, iv–vi). On the other hand, P2G–NES exhibited localization patterns essentially identical to those of P2G (Fig. 1C, vii–ix). We further verified the intracellular localizations of P2G and P2G–NLS proteins in comparison with marker proteins using transient expression in onion epidermal cells. P2G was strongly observed in the cell periphery and the nucleus, and also faintly in the cytoplasm (Supplementary Fig. S2A). The cytoplasmic and nuclear localization of P2G was consistent with the distribution of monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP), a cytosolic and nuclear localization marker (Supplementary Fig. S2B). It is noted here that the nuclear localization of P2G might be artifactual by overexpression in onion epidermal cells, because no such distribution was observed in the P2-P2G and P2-P2G–NES transgenic Arabidopsis cells. In contrast, strong P2G–NLS expression was observed in the cell periphery and nucleus, but not in the cytoplasm (Supplementary Fig. S2A). In addition, P2G–NLS was co-localized with mRFP in the nucleus but not in the cytosol (Supplementary Fig. S2B). Both fusion proteins in the periphery were well co-localized with the distribution of the plasma membrane marker H+-ATPase–mRFP (Supplementary Fig. S2C). Collectively, these results indicated that the addition of NLS to P2G effectively reduced the cytoplasmic fraction of phot2. The physiological activities of P2G–NLS and P2G–NES on chloroplast movements were assessed by monitoring changes in the red light transmittance in rosette leaves in response to low and high blue-light treatments (CITATION). P2G–NES fully complemented the low-light-induced as well as the high-light-induced chloroplast movements; the higher expressor (P2-P2G–NES 12-1) exhibited a more rapid avoidance response than the moderate expressor (P2-P2G–NES 24-2) as observed in the P2-P2G lines 4-1 and 21-2 (Fig. 1D), indicating that P2G–NES is fully functional not only in the accumulation response but also in the avoidance response. Interestingly, P2G–NLS was fully functional in the accumulation response, but its activity for the avoidance response was slightly attenuated compared with those of P2G–NES and P2G (Fig. 1D). Collectively, these data indicate that cytoplasmic phot2 is not essential for chloroplast photorelocation movement, although we could not rule out the possibility that the reduced expression and membrane-localized extent of P2G–NLS also affect the activity for the avoidance response. In the accompanying paper (CITATION), we demonstrated that the C-terminal deletion mutants P2(Δ42)G and P2(Δ65)G, but not P2(Δ25)G, showed some attenuation on targeting to the plasma membrane and the Golgi apparatus. To assess further the relationship between the localization patterns and functionality of phot2 in chloroplast photorelocation movement, the C-terminal deletion mutants P2(Δ25)G, P2(Δ42)G and P2(Δ65)G were expressed in phot2 single and phot1phot2 double mutants under the control of the authentic phot2 promoter. Unfortunately, all P2-P2(Δ42)G and P2-P2(Δ65)G transgenic lines showed reduced expression levels compared with the amount of the endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plants, as described by CITATION. Hence, we used P2-P2G lines with various expression levels as controls (Supplementary Fig. S1A). Although the P2-P2(Δ42)G and P2-P2(Δ65)G transgenic plants exhibited a slightly lower expression of the respective fusion proteins compared with that of endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plants, the expression was comparable with that of P2G in P2-P2G 5-3 (Supplementary Fig. S1B). Because the 35-P2(Δ42)G transgenic plants showed an accumulation response rather than an avoidance response, even under strong light (CITATION), we investigated whether the amount of phot2 influenced the threshold between the accumulation and avoidance responses. Chloroplast movements in P2-P2G lines were first detected from the changes of red light transmittance through the leaves under various light intensities. Both the accumulation and avoidance responses were normally observed, even in the low P2G expression line 5-3 (Fig. 2A; Supplementary Fig. S3B). In contrast, no response was observed in the no P2G expression line 19-3. These results suggest that some amount of P2G is necessary and the low P2G amount in P2-P2G 5-3 has enough activity to induce both accumulation and avoidance responses.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As described by CITATION, the P2-P2(Δ25)G transgenic plants were fully functional in both the accumulation and avoidance responses, and the P2-P2(Δ65)G transgenic plants were not functional (Fig. 2B; Supplementary Fig. S3C, Supplementary Data). In contrast, the P2-P2(Δ42)G transgenic plants were only partially functional during the accumulation response; there was almost no observed accumulation response under a low intensity blue light (Fig. 2B, BL3.2; Supplementary Fig. S3D), but reduced accumulation responses were detected under high intensity blue light (Fig. 2B, BL25 and BL60; Supplementary Fig. S3D), indicating that the C-terminal region of phot2 is involved in the regulation of phot2 activity. It is noted that P2(Δ42)G was only functional for the accumulation response under high intensity blue light while the expression of P2(Δ42)G is comparable with that of P2G in the low P2G expression line 5-3 (Supplementary Fig. S1A, Supplementary Data). With a different purpose, we transformed PHOT2-TAP and PHOT2-TAPi fusion genes into the phot1phot2 double mutants under the control of the authentic PHOT2 promoter, and the resulting transgenic plants were named P2-P2TAP and P2-P2TAPi, respectively. The tandem affinity purification (TAP) method is widely used for the high-level purification of protein complexes containing a TAP-tagged protein (CITATION, CITATION). Although this TAP tag method has proven its usefulness for the identification of proteins in heterocomplexes in yeast, mammalian and insect cells using mass spectrometry, its application in plants has been limited to the purification of fully functional protein complexes for the mass spectrometric analysis of proteins because of its NLS in the calmodulin-binding protein (CBP) domain. A new improved TAP (TAPi) tag has improved the usefulness of the TAP tag through the elimination of NLS signal activity (CITATION). We found that phot2–TAP fusion proteins partially complemented the high-light avoidance response in phot1phot2 double mutants (see below). Hence, we asked whether the defective phenotype in these lines could be related to the membrane localization activity. The expressions of P2TAP and P2TAPi were similar to or less than that of endogenous phot2 (Supplementary Fig. S1E). Chloroplast movements were measured using red light transmittance on leaves to determine the physiological activities of the phot2 fusion proteins. Interestingly, the P2-P2TAP 34-3 transgenic plant leaves with a low expression (Supplementary Fig. S1E) exhibited an accumulation response similar to that of the phot2 mutants (Wada and Kong 2001) not only under a low intensity (BL3.2) but also under high intensity blue light (BL25 and BL60) (Fig. 3A). However, the P2-P2TAP 9-4 transgenic plant leaves with moderate expression (Supplementary Fig. S1E) exhibited an accumulation response under low and middle intensity blue light (BL3.2 and BL25) and an avoidance response under high intensity blue light (BL60) (Fig. 3A). Similarly, the P2-P2TAPi transgenic plants were functional in both chloroplast movements, but the higher intensity of blue light was necessary for the avoidance response as in P2-P2TAP 9-4 (Fig. 3A). In addition, all of these lines exhibited a normal phototropism response similar to the phot1 mutant plants (data not shown). Interestingly, the protein fractionation analysis showed that P2TAP was more sensitive to chaotropic salt (300 mM NaCl) treatment compared with endogenous phot2 in the wild-type plant (Fig. 3B). These data suggest that the membrane association activity of P2TAP is reduced compared with that of endogenous phot2. Collectively, these results showed a positive relationship between membrane association and physiological activity of phot2.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To address further the localization dynamics of phototropins during chloroplast movement, we examined the intracellular localization of both phot1 and phot2 in the palisade cells of P1-P1G and P2-P2G transgenic plants, respectively (CITATION, CITATION). As shown in Fig. 4 (see also Supplementary Movies S1, Supplementary Data), the avoidance response was effectively induced by microbeam irradiation using 458 nm laser beam scans in the intervals between image acquisitions using 488 nm laser scans for GFP fusion proteins. The chloroplasts moved away from the area where the strong blue light was applied. Interestingly, clear GFP fluorescence of P1G and P2G was observed not only in the plasma membrane but also in the chloroplast envelope during the chloroplast movement (Fig. 4, chloroplasts 1, 2, 3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To compare directly the localization patterns and the endogenous levels of phot1 and phot2 in leaf cells, we produced transgenic plants expressing phot1–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; P1Y) and phot2–YFP (P2Y) fusion proteins in the phot1 and phot2 single mutant backgrounds under the control of the authentic PHOT1 and PHOT2 promoters (P1-P1Y/p1, P2-P2Y/p2 lines), respectively. The immunoblot analysis confirmed that the expression of P1Y and P2Y fusion proteins was closely comparable with that of endogenous phot1 and phot2 in the wild-type cells (Fig. 5A, B). Consequently, the serial dilution analysis with P2Y showed that the expression level of P2Y was higher than that of P1Y, by around 2- to 4-fold (Fig. 5C). The extents of P1Y and P2Y expression levels in the leaf cells were consistently confirmed in the plasma membrane using confocal microscopic analysis (Fig. 5D). Similarly, the chloroplast association of P2Y was more easily detected than that of P1Y in the intact mesophyll cells (Fig. 5D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm phototropin localization on the chloroplast, immunoblot analyses of protein extracts from the chloroplast fraction were performed. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from 3-week-old rosette leaves of wild-type and phot1phot2 double mutant plants. Crude protein extracts from the same leaves were used as a control. Both phot1 and phot2 were detected in the isolated chloroplast fractions (Fig. 6A). In several independent experiments, the phot2 band was consistently detected in the chloroplast fraction, but the phot1 band in the chloroplast fraction was consistently weak or occasionally could not be detected. Collectively, the phot1 band in the chloroplast fraction was much weaker than that in the total protein fraction; however, the phot2 band in the chloroplast fraction showed a similar intensity as that in the total protein fractions (Fig. 6A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify the fractionation, we also identified some representative marker proteins in the same fractions. The well-known chloroplast outer membrane protein Toc75 (CITATION) was enriched in the isolated chloroplast fractions from both the wild-type and phot1phot2 mutant plants; however, this marker was undetectable in our total protein fractions (Fig. 6A). Moreover, the plasma membrane marker H+-ATPase (CITATION) was detected in the total protein fractions but not in the isolated chloroplast fractions from the wild-type and phot1phot2 double mutant plants (Fig. 6A), indicating that the plasma membrane contamination in this isolated chloroplast fraction is not significant. phot2 was not detected when the isolated chloroplasts were treated with the protease thermolysin and was recovered from both pelleted (P) and soluble (S) fractions after treatment with a hypotonic agent (Fig. 6B), indicating that phot2 was peripherally associated with the chloroplast outer membrane. In addition, phot2 was released from the isolated chloroplasts into the soluble fraction by alkaline treatment with an alkaline buffer (100 mM Na2CO3, pH 11.5), indicating that phot2 is associated with the chloroplast outer membrane via ionic interaction. Collectively, these results indicate that a part of phototropins is associated with the chloroplast outer membrane. We further evaluated the amounts of phot1 and phot2 using the isolated chloroplasts of the P1-P1Y/p1 and P2-P2Y/p2 transgenic plants. As expected, the YFP fluorescence of P1Y and P2Y was clearly observed in the isolated chloroplast envelope (Fig. 6C). The immunoblot analysis further demonstrated that the amount of P2Y was larger than that of P1Y, but the amounts of CHUP1 detected in these lines were similar (Fig. 6D), indicating that the portion of phot2 is larger than that of phot1 in the chloroplast fraction. Because phot2 activity on the avoidance response is dose dependent (CITATION, CITATION), we further asked whether the amount of chloroplast-associated phot2 would be correlated to chloroplast movement. To answer this, we tried to compare P2G amounts in P2-P2G 4-1 and 21-2 lines that exhibited a correlation between P2G expression and physiological activity on the avoidance response (Figs. 1A, D, 2A). Immunoblot analysis consistently showed that P2G in the P2-P2G 4-1 line was more than that in the P2-P2G 21-2 line not only in the total and pelleted fractions but also in the chloroplast fraction (Figs. 1A, 6E). In contrast, CHUP1 proteins were detected at similar levels in both the total protein and chloroplast fractions between these two lines (Fig. 6E). These results suggested a correlation between the amount of phot2 associated with chloroplasts and the magnitude of the avoidance response. The C-terminal domain of phot2 is responsible for phot2 localization to the plasma membrane, and the blue light-dependent association of phot2 with the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). Moreover, the chloroplast avoidance response was defective in our transgenic plants expressing the C-terminal deletion of phot2 (Fig. 2B). Hence, it is plausible that the C-terminal region of phot2 is involved in the chloroplast localization. To assess whether the differences in the responsiveness of our transgenic plants in terms of the avoidance response could be due to their varying affinities for the chloroplasts, we examined the amounts of phot2 in isolated chloroplasts and total crude protein extracts. Although the expression levels of P2G, P2(Δ42)G, P2TAP and P2G–NLS proteins were different, some amounts of these proteins were detected in all chloroplast fractions, and the ratios of the amounts in the chloroplast fractions to those in the total protein fractions were not significantly changed (Fig. 7A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we employed transient expression in mesophyll protoplasts to clarify further the association of phot2 with the chloroplast outer membrane. The uniform fluorescence of GFP-tagged phot2 (GP2) was observed in the chloroplast outer membrane of the burst protoplasts (Fig. 7B). Interestingly, the uniform localization of GP2 in the chloroplast outer membrane was disrupted in the C-terminal deletion mutants GP2(Δ42) and GP2(Δ65), i.e. GP2(Δ42) was in aggregates and localized near the chloroplast outer membrane but GP2(Δ65) accumulated mainly in the cytoplasm (Fig. 7B). Furthermore, P2C84G (GFP fused to the C-terminal 84 amino acid fragment of phot2) was observed in the cell periphery and near the chloroplast outer membrane of mesophyll cells (Fig. 7C), although there was no significant phenotypic effect on phot2 function in the 35-P2C84G line (CITATION). These results suggest that the C-terminal region of phot2 is responsible for the localization pattern of phot2 on the chloroplast outer membrane.
!~MM~! The gl-1 mutant (ecotype Columbia) is the parental line of the phot mutant lines and was used as the wild-type control. The phot mutant lines phot1-5 (CITATION), phot2-1 (CITATION) and phot1-5phot2-1 (CITATION), and T3 homogeneous transgenic plants (see below) were used. The plants were grown on 0.8% (w/v) agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose. The plates were incubated in the dark at 4°C for 72 h and subsequently transferred to a growth chamber under 16 h/8 h (day/night) periods at 23°C. The plasmids were constructed by replacing the GFP gene of P2-P2G/pPZP211 (CITATION) with either GFP–NLS, GFP–NES (CITATION), YFP, TAP or TAPi (CITATION) using the SalI and PstI restriction enzyme sites, and the resulting binary vectors were named P2-P2G–NLS/pPZP211, P2-P2G–NES/pPZP211, P2-P2Y/pPZP211, P2-P2TAP/pPZP211 or P2-P2TAPi/pPZP211, respectively. For P1-P1Y/pPZP211, the PHOT1-YFP fragment was inserted into the SalI and PstI restriction enzyme sites of the plasmid P1-nosT/pPZP211 containing the PHOT1 authentic promoter region (–3,918 to 594). The binary vectors were transformed into the phot1phot2 double mutant plants through Agrobacterium-mediated Arabidopsis transformation (CITATION). The transformed plants were selected on MS medium containing 35 µg ml–1 kanamycin and 100 µg ml–1 cefotaxime (Claforan; Sanofi-Aventis). Kanamycin resistance co-segregated tightly with GFP fluorescence in every line. T3 homogeneous lines were used for the experiments. Intact chloroplasts were isolated as previously described (CITATION) with minor modifications. Briefly, the aerial parts of 3-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on MS medium and homogenized in a blending buffer [50 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 7.8), 330 mM sorbitol, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM MnCl2, 1 mM MgCl2, 50 mM sodium ascorbate, 5 mM dithiothreitol and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma)]. Subsequent to filtration of the homogenate through two layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem), the homogenate was centrifuged in an RPR9-2 rotor at 3,000 × g, and the chloroplast-containing fraction was collected through the stopping and decelerating of the centrifuge (HITACHI, himac CR20GII) immediately after the maximum speed was obtained. The pellet was resuspended in blending buffer and overlaid onto a 30% Percoll solution [30% (w/v) Percoll, 50 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 7.8), 330 mM sorbitol and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma)] and centrifuged in a swing-bucket rotor at 700 × g for 15 min at 4°C. The pellet containing the intact chloroplasts was washed [50 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 7.8), 330 mM sorbitol and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma)] and resuspended in blending buffer. To digest the outer envelope proteins, the isolated chloroplasts were treated with 100 µg ml–1 thermolysin for 20 min on ice. In addition, the isolated chloroplasts were treated with a hypotonic buffer (10 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.8) or an alkaline buffer (100 mM Na2CO3, pH 11.5) for 20 min on ice and then fractionated into P and S fractions by centrifugation at 1,500 × g for 1 min at 4°C. Total protein samples were prepared from 3-week-old rosette leaves as previously described (CITATION). For protein fractionation, the total protein fraction (T) was further fractionated into soluble (S) and pelleted (P) fractions using ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g for 1 h at 4°C as described previously (CITATION). Approximately 50 µg of total protein and 15 µl of the chloroplast samples at 1 µg µl–1 Chl were separated using SDS–PAGE and then transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes (Hybond C; Amersham). The blots were probed with anti-phot1 (CITATION), phot2 (CITATION) and Vicia H+-ATPase (CITATION) polyclonal antibodies, respectively. Changes in red light transmittance were measured to determine chloroplast photorelocation movement essentially as previously described (CITATION). For microbeam irradiation, confocal microscopy (SP5, Leica Microsystems) was used to capture time-lapse images. The rosette leaves of 4-week-old plants were detached and air spaces in the leaves were eliminated by gentle evacuation using a syringe that was filled with an evacuation solution (0.01% Silwet L-77). The leaves were placed into a cuvette that was composed of two round coverslips and a ring-shaped silicon–rubber spacer. The time-lapse images (at a 1.2 µm depth with three images) were taken at the indicated time intervals using 488 nm laser scanning. During the intervals, the circular area was irradiated with a strong blue light (458 nm laser scanning) to induce the chloroplast avoidance response (for details see Fig. 2). The maximized images were traced using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from the rosette leaves of 4-week-old phot1phot2 double mutants essentially as previously described (CITATION). A total of 10 µg of each plasmid construct for GP2, GP2(Δ42) and GP2(Δ65) (CITATION) was transiently expressed in the protoplasts using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation. After incubation at 23°C for 16 h in the dark, the protoplasts were burst mechanically by pipetting, and viewed under a confocal microscope (SP5, Leica Microsystems). The fluorescence was observed at 500–550 nm for GFP or 630–750 nm for Chl autofluorescence.
