!~ABS~! Tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) and plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs) form subgroups of plant major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) that channel water as well as various small neutral molecules across the tonoplast and plasma membrane. Most MIPs are believed to form homotetramers, while some plant PIPs have been shown to form heterotetramers composed of different isoforms. This study investigated in vivo molecular interactions between different Arabidopsis TIP isoforms and between TIPs and a PIP member. The interactions were assayed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation optimized for use in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a heterologous expression system. Fluorescence of re‐assembled Venus yellow fluorescent protein was monitored by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. The results showed strong interactions between TIP1;2, TIP2;1 and TIP3;1. Surprisingly, the three TIP isoforms also interacted with PIP2;1. The potassium channel AKT1 was used as a negative control and exhibited no interaction with any of the MIPs. The observed interactions may play a role in targeting and regulation of MIPs in plants. 
!~RES~! To study the interaction of plant TIPs, genes from the model plant Arabidopsis were chosen. The gene expression patterns of TIP isoforms TIP1;1, TIP1;2, TIP2;1, TIP3;1, TIP4;1 and TIP5;1 were obtained from the Arabidopsis microarray database Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. 2004, https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) to select candidates of TIP isoforms for the BiFC assay. The data from Genevestigator revealed that TIP1;1, TIP1;2 and TIP2;1 are expressed during the entire plant development but with low expression levels during seed maturation. They were highly expressed in the rosettes, inflorescences, shoots and flowers. On the other hand, the expression of TIP3;1, TIP4;1 and TIP5;1 are rather low throughout the whole plant life except for expression of TIP3;1, which increases significantly in maturating siliques. Thus, the data indicated that TIP1;1, TIP1;2 and TIP2;1 are ubiquitous TIPs while TIP3;1 is predominant in specific organs such as siliques and seeds, suggesting a specific role of TIP3;1 in germination. As the expression of TIP1;1, TIP1;2 and TIP2;1 shows very similar spatio‐temporal patterns, it appears relevant to study their potential interactions. Furthermore, TIP3;1 may interact with TIP1;2 and TIP2;1 during seed maturation and germination. TIP1;2, TIP2;1 and TIP3;1 were therefore selected as the candidates for the interaction assay. We also included PIP2;1, which in contrast to the TIPs is expressed in the plasma membrane. The Arabidopsis potassium channel AKT1 was selected as negative control in the interaction studies (Sentenac et al. CITATION).  In order to assure that the MIP isoforms selected for this study were properly expressed in yeast, fusion proteins with full‐length vYFP were generated and transformed into yeast. Full‐length vYFP was either fused to the N‐ or C‐terminal end of TIP1;2, and to the C‐terminal end of TIP2;1, TIP3;1 and PIP2;1 (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] As the N‐ or C‐terminal domains of many membrane proteins, including MIPs, are involved in their trafficking (Nakahama et al. CITATION, Hanton et al. CITATION, Mikosch et al. CITATION, Zelazny et al. CITATION) and because phosphorylation sites have been detected in the N and C terminus of various MIPs (Weaver and Roberts CITATION, Johansson et al. CITATION, Guenther et al. CITATION, Santoni et al. CITATION), there is a concern that the fusion of vYFP to MIPs at either end may interfere with protein function and/or targeting. Therefore, additional gene fragments coding for the N‐ or C‐terminal domains of the respective MIPs were included in the fusion upstream or downstream of vYFP, respectively (Fig. 1A). For the expression of soluble vYFP, DNA fragments coding for the soluble N‐ and C‐terminal domains of TIP1;2 were fused to the 5′ or 3′ end of vYFP, respectively.  Expression of all fusion constructs yielded fluorescence above control, albeit at different intensities (Fig. 1B). While soluble vYFP was homogeneously distributed in the cytoplasm, TIP1;2‐, TIP2;1‐, TIP3;1 and PIP2;1‐vYFP were visible in internal membranes and at the periphery of the cells, most likely represented by the plasma membrane. Similar fluorescence signals were observed for vYFP‐TIP1;2 and TIP1;2‐vYFP (data for vYFP‐TIP1;2 not shown). Analysis by flow cytometry revealed the strongest signal in cells expressing TIP1;2‐vYFP, followed by PIP2;1‐, TIP2;1‐ and TIP3;1‐vYFP (Fig. 1C). The differences in the observed fluorescence intensities likely reflect different levels of expression of the various MIPs.  vYFP consisting of 238 aa was split into two halves at amino acid position 173. Either the first half [N‐terminal half of Venus yellow fluorescent protein (NV); vYFP 1–173] or the second half [C‐terminal half of Venus yellow fluorescent protein (CV); vYFP 174–238] of vYFP was fused to either the N‐ or C‐terminal end of TIP1;2, which was selected as a first candidate to optimize the assay for initial studies of interaction (Fig. 2A). As for the fusion with the entire vYFP above, N‐ and C‐terminal fragment of TIP1;2 were included in the constructs. This resulted in the generation of four fusion proteins: NV‐TIP1;2, CV‐TIP1;2, TIP1;2‐NV and TIP1;2‐CV. The constructs were made in two vectors with different marker genes to allow for the introduction of the two different constructs into the same yeast. Empty vectors were used as controls.  [[FIGURE]] Combinations of TIP1;2 constructs expressing fusions containing NV and CV were transformed into yeast. Yeast transformants were grown in synthetic medium containing galactose as carbon source to induce the expression of the fusion proteins. Cells were harvested and analyzed for fluorescent complementation by flow cytometry.  Combinations of NV‐TIP1;2/CV‐TIP1;2, NV‐TIP1;2/TIP1;2‐CV, TIP1;2‐NV/CV‐TIP1;2 and TIP1;2‐NV/TIP1;2‐CV containing both halves of vYFP yielded significantly higher fluorescence signals than the empty vector control. In contrast, combinations NV‐TIP1;2/TIP1;2‐NV and CV‐TIP1;2/TIP1;2‐CV did not differ significantly from control. This suggested that all combinations of constructs where the two different halves of vYFP had been used, led to the reconstitution of functional vYFP through bimolecular interaction, whereas combinations of fusions with two identical halves of vYFP did not (Fig. 2B).  The combination TIP1;2‐NV/TIP1;2‐CV resulted in much lower fluorescence complementation than the three other combinations. The configuration MIP‐NV/CV‐MIP was chosen for further studies involving different MIP isoforms.  TIP1;2, TIP2;1, TIP3;1 and PIP2;1 were cloned in fusion with a split vYFP to generate the constructs CV‐MIP and MIP‐NV (where MIP represents TIPs or PIP2;1).  All combinations of TIPs tested in this study resulted in the formation of a strong fluorescence complementation signal detectable by flow cytometry (Fig. 3). Likewise, co‐expression of PIP2;1 with the different TIPs resulted in a higher fluorescent signal as compared with the control, although for the combination of TIP3;1‐NV/CV‐PIP2;1 this signal was not statistically significant.  [[FIGURE]] Different localization was found for TIPs depending on whether they were expressed in fusion to the entire vYFP or co‐expressed as fusions with NV and CV. When TIPs were expressed in a fusion to the entire vYFP, strong fluorescence was observed in intracellular membranes and some weak fluorescence was detected in the plasma membrane (Fig. 1B). Interactions between TIPs with a split half of vYFP were also observed in the internal membrane structures but they occurred as spotty structures with strong fluorescence indicating that there was a high accumulation of the fluorescent protein complexes (Fig. 4). The spotty structures were observed in all the different combination of TIPs (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The interaction between the two complementing halves of vYFP to form a fluorescent complex is essentially irreversible (Kerppola CITATION). Consequently, it is important in BiFC studies to exclude that the interaction of the two halves of vYFP is the driving force for complementation. To address this issue we performed co‐expression studies in which the interaction of TIP1;2 with a non‐specific partner, namely the Arabidopsis potassium channel AKT1 (Sentenac et al. CITATION) was examined. Under these conditions, co‐expression of split vYFP fragments fused to TIP1;2 and AKT1 did not result in a fluorescence complementation signal (Fig. 4). We therefore conclude that the observed interactions between the MIP isoforms are specific. 
!~MM~! All genes investigated in this study were from Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia. Plasmid constructs were designed by the uracil‐specific excision reagent (USER) cloning technique (Nour‐Eldin et al. CITATION, Hamann and Møller CITATION). The gene fragments encoding the N or C terminus of respective MIPs, the first and second half of vYFP (aa 1–173, NV and aa 174–238, CV) and the coding region of PIP2;1 and TIPs were obtained by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from cDNA with their specific primers (Table 1).  PCR was performed with Pfu Turbo Cx hotstart DNA polymerase (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA) following the program: (1) 95°C for 2 min, (2) 95°C for 30 s, (3) 62°C for 30 s, (4) 72°C for 1 min and (5) 72°C for 10 min [(2–4) 25 cycles]. Amplification of fragments was confirmed by gel electrophoresis. The vectors for USER cloning, pYeDP60u(URA3) and pYeDP60u(LEU2) were digested with PacI and Nt.BbvCI, purified by DNA gel extraction using the kit from OMEGA bio‐tek (Norcross, GA) and eluted in a final volume of 30 µl elution buffer; 1 µl of each PCR amplified fragment, 1 U USERTM enzyme mix, 1.9 µl PacI/Nt.BbvCI digested vectors and 0.6 µl Ex taq buffer were first incubated at 37°C for 15 min and then at 25°C for 30 min. The three gene fragments coding for the additional 14 aa to 22 aa long N‐ or C‐terminal fragments of the respective MIPs, a half split vYFP and the coding region of TIP were joined together via two different linkers. Both linkers encoded the four amino acids Met‐Gly‐Gly‐Gly. The DNA sequence of the first linker was ‘atg gga ggt ggt’ while the second one had the sequence ‘atg ggt gga ggt’. These differences in sequence enabled the three fragments to assemble in the desired order. Cloning of AKT1 together with a half split vYFP was carried out by the same methods. PCR fragments (1.5 µl) of AKT1 and a half split vYFP were joined together via the above‐mentioned linkers by USER cloning. After cloning the constructs were verified by sequencing.  The yeast strain Δmep1‐3 (Matα leu2Δ0 lys2Δ0 ura3Δ0 YGR121c::kanMX4 YNL142w::HIS3 YPR138c::kanMX4) (ten Hoopen et al. CITATION) was transformed with pYeDP60u (URA3) and pYeDP60u (LEU2), containing various MIP ORFs in fusion with N‐ and C‐terminal halves of vYFP, respectively. Yeast cells were transformed by the lithium acetate method (Gietz and Woods CITATION). Transformants were grown at 30°C on synthetic media containing 2% glucose, 0.192% yeast synthetic dropout medium lacking leucine and uracil (Sigma‐Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), 0.7% yeast nitrogen base without ammonium and amino acids (BD Difco, Detroit, MI) and 1.5% agar. To induce expression, cells were grown for 6 h at 30°C in liquid synthetic media containing 2% galactose.  Flow cytometry of cells was performed on a Becton Dickinson FACSCalibur (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) equipped with an argon laser using cell quest software. The yeast cells were suspended in phosphate‐buffered saline (PBS, 130 mM NaCl, 2.6 mM KCl, 7 mM Na2HPO4, 1.2 mM KH2PO4) to make 1 ml suspension of OD600 = 10; 50 µl of the cell suspensions were added to 1 ml PBS. Twenty thousand cells were analyzed without gating during the acquisition. In addition, dead cells in the samples were examined by adding 1 µl propidium iodide (1 mg ml−1 in water) to the samples before analysis. Only a minor population of the cells (average of 5 ± 2%) was detected as dead cells. vYFP fluorescence (FL1, 530 ± 15 nm) of living cells was plotted on a histogram and the geometric mean of the fluorescence intensity was calculated. Data were analyzed with microsoft excel, using Student's t‐tests, with P‐values of less than 0.1 being considered significant for any set of data.  Cells were immobilized on polylysine‐coated slides (Menzel‐Gläser, Braunschweig, Germany). A Leica TCS SP2/MP spectral confocal laser‐scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) with a 63x/1.2 NA water immersion objective was used. vYFP was excited with an argon laser at 488 nm, and emission spectra were recorded between 525 and 600 nm for vYFP (magenta channel). 
