!~ABS~! Xyloglucan endohydrolase (XEH) and xyloglucan endotransglucosylase (XET) activities, encoded by xyloglucan endotransglucosylase-hydrolase (XTH) genes, are involved in cell wall extension by cutting or cutting and rejoining xyloglucan chains, respectively. However, the physiological significance of this biochemical activity remains incompletely understood. Here, we find that an XTH31 T-DNA insertion mutant, xth31, is more Al resistant than the wild type. XTH31 is bound to the plasma membrane and the encoding gene is expressed in the root elongation zone and in nascent leaves, suggesting a role in cell expansion. XTH31 transcript accumulation is strongly downregulated by Al treatment. XTH31 expression in yeast yields a protein with an in vitro XEH:XET activity ratio of >5000:1. xth31 accumulates significantly less Al in the root apex and cell wall, shows remarkably lower in vivo XET action and extractable XET activity, has a lower xyloglucan content, and exhibits slower elongation. An exogenous supply of xyloglucan significantly ameliorates Al toxicity by reducing Al accumulation in the roots, owing to the formation of an Al-xyloglucan complex in the medium, as verified by an obvious change in chemical shift of 27Al-NMR. Taken together, the data indicate that XTH31 affects Al sensitivity by modulating cell wall xyloglucan content and Al binding capacity.
!~RES~! In our previous study, we found that the majority of Al in roots is bound to the cell wall hemicellulose and that the expression of one gene, XTH31, correlates with hemicellulose modification. XTH31 expression is suppressed by Al stress together with declining Arabidopsis XET action as monitored by in vivo assays with a fluorescent acceptor substrate (CITATION). To determine whether XTH31 function is required for Al stress responses, we characterized a T-DNA insertion line (Salk_046167). The T-DNA is inserted into the second exon region of XTH31 (211 bp from the translation initiator ATG codon; Figure 1A), and XTH31 transcripts were not detected in the homozygous line (Figure 1B), indicating that the T-DNA insertion may lead to the loss of XTH31 function. The roots (Figures 1C and 1D) and shoots (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) of xth31 were shorter than those of the wild type, showing that XTH31 function is required for normal growth (defined as the irreversible increase in volume). Decreased growth, so defined, necessarily involves decreased cell expansion. To gain insight into the cellular basis for the shorter roots in the mutant, we used propidium iodide staining to visualize the cell size. Cellular shape and size were similar in the mutant and the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Therefore, cell division paralleled cell expansion during the establishment of the short root phenotype under normal growth conditions. The findings are consistent with the conclusion that XTH31 is not essential for cell shape determination but instead may have an essential function in the regulation and/or processes of cell expansion. [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, although the growth of wild-type seedling roots was inhibited by ∼40% when the seedlings were grown on agar medium containing 50 μM Al3+ for 7 d, no significant Al-dependent growth change occurred in xth31 (Figures 1C and 1D). Strikingly, Al-exposed xth31 roots accumulate less than half the Al that is found in wild-type roots grown under similar conditions (Figure 1C). Root morin staining also showed much less Al accumulation in the root tip of xth31 than in Columbia-0 (Col-0) (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). One possibility is that XTH31 function is required for Al accumulation in wild-type roots and that Al accumulation is required for the Al-dependent root growth inhibition. To confirm that the growth and Al resistance phenotypes of xth31 are caused by XTH31 loss of function, we performed a complementation test by transforming the xth31 mutant with the full-length coding region of XTH31. Transgene expression was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR (Figure 1B). Complemented xth31 plants showed Al sensitivity and overall growth similar to those of the wild type (Figures 1C to 1E; see Supplemental Figure 1 online), verifying that the reported xth31 mutant phenotypes are the consequence of the loss of XTH31 function. We also generated transgenic lines that overexpress XTH31 in the wild type (Figure 1B); these Col-0–overexpressing lines showed no detectable phenotypic differences from the wild type in the absence or presence of Al stress (Figures 1C and 1D). In addition, overexpression of XTH31 did not affect root Al accumulation (Figure 1E). One possible explanation for the lack of overt phenotypic changes due to XTH31 overexpression is that wild-type XTH31 expression levels are not limiting for XTH31 function and the amount of synthesized xyloglucan may be the limiting factor. According to a phylogenetic analysis of the Arabidopsis XTH family, XTH31 (At3g44990) is classified, together with XTH27, XTH28, XTH29, XTH30, XTH32, XTH33, in subgroup 3, while XTH1 to 11 are in subgroup 1 and XTH12 to 26 are in subgroup 2 (CITATION). Similar to other reported XTH members, XTH31 also contains a sequence encoding a potential signal peptide at the beginning of the first exon. The deduced XTH31 sequence also contains four Cys residues in the C-terminal portion of the protein that could form disulfide bridges (Figure 2A); these four Cys residues are found in all known XETs (CITATION), although the position of the second Cys residue varies slightly. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the overall amino acid similarities between XTH31 and other XTHs, XTH31 harbors a potential signal peptide at the N terminus. This region lacks charged amino acids and is rich in hydrophobic residues, and cleavage of the potential signal sequence is predicted to occur after His-19 (Figure 2A). To elucidate the potential subcellular localization of XTH31, we produced three different constructs fused to green fluorescent protein (XTH31 Full-GFP, XTH31 SP-GFP, and XTH31 Wint-GFP; Figure 2B) and used these to transform onion (Allium cepa) cells. The full-length XTH31 fusion protein (XTH31 Full-GFP) was found around the cell periphery, which was consistent with the interpretation of plasma membrane localization (Figures 2C and 2D). Moreover, when a plasma membrane–localized marker (pm-rk) was coapplied during transformation, XTH31 Full-GFP and pm-rk staining patterns were indistinguishable (Figures 2E to 2G). A similar result was obtained when only the first 19 amino acids of XTH31 were fused to GFP (XTH31 SP-GFP; Figure 2H), indicating that these N-terminal amino acids are sufficient to confer plasma membrane localization of GFP and therefore likely function, as predicted, as a plasma membrane–targeted signal peptide. Consistent with this conclusion, the putative signal peptide is required for plasma membrane localization because a truncated XTH31-GFP fusion protein that lacks the whole putative signal peptide (XTH31 Wint-GFP) showed localization similar to that of GFP alone (Figures 2I and 2J). These results are consistent with the interpretation that XTH31 is most likely targeted to the membrane by an N-terminal signal peptide. The expression pattern of XTH31 mRNA was first examined with quantitative real-time PCR of isolated organs. According to the RT-PCR data, XTH31 transcripts accumulate in the roots as well as in the leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques (see Supplemental Figure 4A online); roots have the highest expression, whereas flowers have relatively low expression. The in vivo tissue-specific localization of XTH31 was further investigated with β-glucuronidase (GUS) staining. A DNA fragment consisting of 2.3 kb of sequences located upstream of the coding region was used to drive the expression of the GUS reporter gene, and the construct containing the reporter fusion was introduced into Arabidopsis wild-type plants by transformation. GUS analysis in the transgenic plants revealed that the XTH31 upstream sequences result in GUS accumulation in both roots and shoots (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). In the roots, XTH31:GUS was predominantly expressed in the root tips, including the elongation zone (see Supplemental Figures 4E and 4F online). In the shoots, high GUS activity was observed in developing young leaves (see Supplemental Figure 4D online), whereas the activity was greatly reduced in fully expanded leaves (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). In our previous report, a time-course experiment indicated that XTH31 transcription is suppressed by 50 µM Al and a significant change can be detected even within 30 min of Al treatment (CITATION). To investigate whether inhibition of XTH31 expression correlates with the phenotype of shortened roots, we conducted a dose–response experiment. We found that root elongation decreased with increasing external Al concentrations (Figure 3A). In Col-0, relative root elongation (100 × root elongation in Al/root elongation without Al) decreased to 23.6 and 9.3% at 100 μΜ and 150 μΜ Al, respectively, whereas in xth31, it was reduced only to 53.4 and 16.5% by 100 and 150 μΜ Al, respectively (Figure 3A). However, XTH31 expression in the wild type was substantially inhibited even at an Al concentration as low as 5 µM (Figure 3B). Therefore, XTH31 expression is very responsive to Al stress, with significant reductions in expression at Al levels lower than that required for root growth inhibition. As the knockout of XTH31 results in increased Al resistance (Figures 1C and 1D) and expression of XTH31 is decreased by Al treatment, it is possible that XTH31 function impairs Al resistance and decreased XTH31 expression somehow confers protection against Al toxicity in plants. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether XTH31 has an Al sensitive promoter, we examined GUS activity in XTH31:GUS transgenics subjected to Al stress. We found that GUS activity derived from the expression of XTH31:GUS indeed decreased in response to Al stress (see Supplemental Figures 5A and 5B online), suggesting the existence of an Al-sensitive promoter. XTH31:GUS activity was also reduced when the transgenics were subjected to cold or salt stress (see Supplemental Figures 5C and 5D online), suggesting the inhibition of XTH31 expression is not specific to Al. It is valuable to distinguish between XET/XEH enzyme action occurring in vivo (with endogenous donor substrate) and enzyme activity assayed in vitro (CITATION). In our previous study, we demonstrated that XET action was inhibited remarkably and quickly by Al stress (CITATION). We extended these findings in this work and found that in vivo XET action, using endogenous xyloglucan as donor substrate, in the xth31 mutant was sharply decreased under normal growth conditions (Figures 4A and 4B), suggesting that XTH31 is in some way responsible for a major proportion of the assayable XET action in the root tip. Furthermore, the loss of XET action on endogenous donor substrate that occurs in Col-0 upon Al stress (Figures 4A and 4B; CITATION) was not apparent in Al-stressed xth31 (Figures 4A and 4B). This lack of inhibition of XET action by Al in xth31 is in accordance with the lack of inhibition of root growth by Al in xth31. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the potential mechanisms that underlie the phenotypes in the xth31 mutant, we measured extractable xyloglucan degrading activity (XDA; i.e., XET and/or XEH activity as well as the hydrolytic activity of nonspecific endoglucanases) by an in vitro assay using tamarind xyloglucan as donor and/or hydrolyzable substrate according to CITATION. XDA is a measure of the degradation of xyloglucan by XTHs and/or cellulases that are present in a crude enzyme extract of the root. The values of plant-extractable XDA in vitro showed trends, both in response to Al stress and as the consequence of the loss of XTH31 function, similar to the in vivo XET action assay data (Figure 4C). Similarly, the plant extractable XET activity, assayed radiochemically, was significantly lower in xth31 roots than in wild-type roots (Figure 4D). The XDA assay, as used in Figure 4C, does not distinguish XET from XEH; however, XTH31 is in a phylogenetic group of enzymes known or predicted to have XEH activity. To investigate the enzymological activities of XTH31, we employed the heterologous Pichia pastoris expression system to produce XTH31. P. pastoris–generated XTH31 exhibited slight XET activity in a highly sensitive radiochemical assay that is specific for XET, with nonradioactive xyloglucan as donor substrate and [3H]XXLGol as acceptor (Figure 5A). The XET activity of XTH31 was ∼1000-fold lower than that of a crude Holcus lanatus extract (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] To test whether XTH31 also has XEH activity, we designed a new radiochemical assay for both XEH and XET activities. The donor (and/or hydrolyzable) substrate was [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan. XEH activity will hydrolyze this substrate at G units. If the G selected for cleavage is the one nearest the reducing end, then free [3H]XXLGol will be released, detectable by paper chromatography. Supplementing the reaction mixture with nonradioactive XXXG is expected to have little effect on XEH activity. The release of [3H]XXLGol by XET activity in the absence of XXXG, on the other hand, may be a rare occurrence because the only acceptor substrate available is the [3H]xyloglucan itself, present at ∼7 µM. However, with the addition of 200 µM XXXG (an almost saturating acceptor substrate concentration; CITATION), XET activity will operate at close to its maximum rate. In summary, XEH releases [3H]XXLGol at its maximum rate in the presence and absence of XXXG, whereas XET is expected to release [3H]XXLGol at its maximum rate only in the presence of cold XXXG. P. pastoris–produced XTH31 released ∼30% of the radioactivity from [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan as [3H]XXLGol in 48 h, and the addition of 200 µM nonradioactive XXXG had little effect, indicating the occurrence predominantly XEH activity (Figures 5B and 5C). By contrast, the slight [3H]XXLGol release by the H. lanatus enzyme was enhanced 2.6-fold by supplemental XXXG and thus was predominantly due to XET rather than XEH activity (Figure 5D). The 6.8% released in the absence of XXXG (Figure 5D) is an upper limit on the possible H. lanatus XEH activity because of the likelihood that H. lanatus XET activity can appreciably catalyze some polysaccharide-to-polysaccharide transglycosylation in the absence of added XXXG. In conclusion, the Holcus:XTH31 ratio for XEH activity is <0.2 (Figures 5B to 5D), whereas Holcus:XTH31 ratio for XET activity is ∼1000 (Figure 5A). Therefore, XTH31 had slight XET activity in vitro but >5000-fold greater XEH activity. In the light of the above observations, it was surprising that XEH activity, assayed in vitro in root extracts and with [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan as the substrate, was almost identical in the wild-type and xth31 (Table 1). Since XTHs are involved in hemicellulose modulation (CITATION), hemicellulose is the major Al binding site in Arabidopsis (CITATION), and xth31 accumulates less Al in the roots when grown on Al (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online), we examined the hemicellulose content of xth31. Total sugar residues and Al content in hemicellulose was significantly lower in xth31 (Figures 6A and 6B). The in vitro Al adsorption kinetics also showed that the root cell walls of xth31 adsorbed significantly less Al than did those of Col-0 (Figure 6C). [[FIGURE]] As xyloglucan is a major component of the cell wall hemicellulose and is the substrate for XET and XEH activities, we analyzed the xyloglucan content in root cell walls after xyloglucanase digestion and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) analysis. The content of total xyloglucanase-accessible xyloglucan repeat units was significantly reduced in xth31, especially XXFG, XLFG, and XXLG (and/or XLXG) (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] How may xyloglucan content be related to Al sensitivity? To address this question, we applied xyloglucan to the culture medium of Col-0, and, to our surprise, xyloglucan treatment significantly alleviated Al-induced root inhibition (Figure 8A). Furthermore, exogenous application of xyloglucan decreased Al accumulation in the roots (Figures 8B and 8C) and cell wall (Figures 8D and 8E) and caused a decrease in XTH31 transcript accumulation (Figure 8F). The role of xyloglucan in Al accumulation was further verified in the xxt1 xxt2 double mutant, which has hardly any detectable xyloglucan (CITATION). The double mutant contained lower levels of Al in the root and accumulated and adsorbed less Al in the root cell wall (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Together, these data provide strong evidence that xyloglucan may be a key factor affecting Al sensitivity. However, the question remained of whether xyloglucan could form a complex with Al. To test this possibility, we produced 27Al-NMR spectra of AlCl3 without or with polysaccharides or citrate. Changes in the 27Al chemical shift represent the formation of complexes between Al and organic compounds in the solution. Citrate is known to chelate Al to form stable complexes with altered chemical shifts in NMR spectra (CITATION). Chemical shifts of 27Al from pure AlCl3 and its complexes with xyloglucan and citrate were all clearly distinct (Figure 9), while no resonances were observed outside the chemical shift range shown, demonstrating the formation of a distinct kind of complex between xyloglucan and Al. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All wild-type, mutant, and transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants used were in the Col-0 wild-type background. Seeds were surface-sterilized and germinated on an agar-solidified nutrient medium in Petri dishes. The nutrient medium was based on Murashige and Skoog salts (CITATION) containing the following macronutrients (in mM): KNO3, 6.0; Ca(NO3)2, 4.0; MgSO4, 1; and NH4H2PO4, 0.1; and the following micronutrients (in μM): Fe(III)-EDTA, 50; H3BO3, 12.5; MnSO4, 1; CuSO4, 0.5; ZnSO4, 1; H2MoO4, 0.1; and NiSO4, 0.1. The final pH was adjusted to 4.5. The seeds were vernalized at 4°C for 1 d. Petri dishes were placed into a growth chamber, positioned vertically and kept under controlled environmental conditions at 24°C, 140 µmol m−2 s−1 and a 16/8-h day/night rhythm. It is noteworthy that as the xxt1 xxt2 mutant cannot grow well under pH 4.5, these plants were first cultivated at pH 5.7 for 3 weeks and then transplanted to nutrient solution of a pH of 4.5 for 1 week for acclimation before Al treatment, as was done for the Col-0 plants with which they were compared. For the tissue expression pattern experiment, seedlings were sampled from the root, stem, leave, flower, and silique. For the dose–response experiment, seedlings were exposed to 0.5 mM CaCl2 medium, pH 4.5, containing 0, 5, 10, 25, 50, 100, or 150 μM AlCl3 for 24 h. For the xyloglucan applied exogenously experiments, 2 μg mL−1 xyloglucan was mixed. For the analysis of promoter to other stress, T3 generation of XTH31-GUS transgenic lines with a root length of 1 cm were exposed to 0.5 mM CaCl2 medium, pH 4.5, containing 50 μM AlCl3 and 100 mM NaCl or frozen with ice for cold treatment for 24 h before GUS staining. Seedlings with a root length of 1 cm (4 d old) were selected and transferred to Petri dishes containing agar-solidified CaCl2 (0.5 mM) medium with 50 µM Al in the form of AlCl3. Root morphology was recorded using a digital camera connected to a computer. Data were quantified and analyzed using Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems). Plants grew vertically for an additional 7 d, at which point root elongation was determined. For the dose–response experiment, 1-cm long seedlings were exposed to 0.5 mM CaCl2 medium, pH 4.5, containing 0, 5, 10, 25, 50, 100, or 150 μM AlCl3 for 24 h. Localization of Al ions in roots was determined by staining with morin (C15H10O7; Sigma-Aldrich), according to the method described by CITATION. The roots were rinsed with double-deionized water and stained with a 100 µM aqueous solution of morin for 30 min. Then, the roots were washed twice with double-deionized water for 5 min each. Samples were mounted on glass slides and inspected under a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 510; Zeiss). For propidium iodide staining, roots treated with or without Al were floated in a 2 mg mL −1 propidium iodide solution for 1 min before being mounted on glass slides and inspected by confocal laser scanning microscopy (LSM 510; Zeiss). The XET action of XTH was determined according to CITATION. In brief, roots were incubated in a 6.5 µM sulforhodamine-labeled xyloglucan oligosaccharides (XGO-SRs) mixture for 1 h according to CITATION. The assay was followed by a 10-min wash in ethanol/formic acid/water (15:1:4, v/v/v) to remove remaining unreacted xyloglucan oligosaccharide SRs; a further incubation overnight in 5% formic acid removed apoplastic, non-wall-bound xyloglucan-SR. Samples were mounted on glass slides and inspected under a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 510; Zeiss) using an excitation light of 540 nm. Total RNA was isolated from root apices (0 to 10 mm) using TRIzol (Invitrogen). cDNA was prepared from 1 µg of total RNA using the PrimeScript RT reagent kit (Takara). For real-time RT-PCR analysis, 1 μL of a 10-fold dilution of cDNA was used for the quantitative analysis of gene expression performed with SYBR Premix ExTaq (Takara) with the following pairs of gene-specific primers (for tubulin: forward, 5′-AAGTTCTGGGAAGTGGTT-3′; reverse, 5′-CTCCCAATGAGTGACAAA-3′; and for XTH31: forward, 5′-TGTCACTCTTTGGCTCG-3′; reverse, 5′- ACCTCATCGTGGTCTCC-3′). Each cDNA sample was run in triplicate. Expression data were normalized with the expression level of the tubulin gene. Extraction of root crude cell wall materials and subsequent fractionation of cell wall components were performed according to CITATION with minor modifications according to CITATION. Roots were ground with a mortar and pestle in liquid nitrogen and then homogenized with 75% ethanol for 20 min in an ice-cold water bath. The sample was then centrifuged at 8000 rpm for 10 min, and the supernatant was removed. The pellets were homogenized and washed with acetone, methanol:chloroform at a ratio of 1:1, and methanol, respectively, for 20 min each, with each supernatant being removed after centrifugation between the washes. The remaining pellet (i.e., the cell wall material) was dried and stored at 4°C for further use. Pectin was extracted three times by hot water (100°C) for 1 h each and the extracts were combined. Then, hemicellulose fraction 1 (hemicellulose 1) was extracted twice with 4% (w/v) KOH containing 0.02% (w/v) KBH4 at room temperature for 12 h. Hemicellulosic material in the remaining solid residue (hemicellulose 2) was extracted with a solution containing 24% (w/v) KOH and 0.02% (w/v) KBH4 in a similar manner. The hemicellulose 1 plus the hemicellulose 2 fractions were referred to as hemicellulose material. The content of total sugar residues in the hemicellulosic fractions was determined by the phenol–sulfuric acid method (CITATION) and expressed as Glc equivalents. Briefly, 200 μL of hemicellulose extracts was incubated with 1 mL of 98% H2SO4 and 10 μL of 80% phenol at room temperature for 15 min and then incubated at 100°C for 15 min. After cooling, the absorbance at 490 nm was measured spectrophotometrically. The alcohol-insoluble residues (AIRs) were generated from roots of Col-0 and xth31 and destarched with α-amylase (Bacillus sp). The xyloglucan-enriched KOH-soluble fraction was prepared by treating 50 mg of destarched AIRs in 4 n KOH solution, after neutralization and dialysis, finally lyophilized. Then, 0.5 mg of AIRs or KOH fraction was incubated in 100 μL of 50 mM ammonium formate, pH 5.0, with one unit of xyloglucanase (E-XEGP; Megazyme) for 18 h at 37°C. The supernatants were recovered, and 1 μL of aqueous sample plus 10 ng xylopentaose was spotted with an equal volume of matrix solution (10 mg mL−1 2,5-dihydroxbenzoic acid). After being dried on the MALDI target plate, spectra were analyzed on a Bruker Autoflex MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (MS) instrument (Bruker) in the positive reflection mode with an acceleration voltage of 20 kV. The relative height of each generated oligosaccharide ion peak was counted to determine their relative abundance as described by Zhang et al. (2012). Four-week-old Arabidopsis Col-0 and xth31 mutant plants were used for this experiment. Seedlings of a similar size were selected and treated in a 0.5 mM CaCl2 solution with or without 50 µM Al for 24 h. After treatment, roots were harvested and enzyme extracts were prepared as described by CITATION. Briefly, roots were homogenized in ice-cold sodium phosphate buffer (10 mM, pH 7) and then centrifuged. The remaining cell wall pellet was washed three times with sodium phosphate buffer (10 mM, pH 7), after which the wall pellet was resuspended in sodium phosphate buffer (10 mM, pH 6) containing 1 M NaCl. The walls were extracted in this buffer for at least 24 h at 4°C before centrifugation. This supernatant was then used as a crude enzyme extract to measure XDA as described by CITATION. The reaction mixture contained 100 μL of the enzyme extract (containing ∼40 µg protein), 0.4 mg mL−1 xyloglucan (Megazyme International), 0.2 mg mL−1 (∼150 µM) xyloglucan oligosaccharides (Megazyme International), and 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6, in a final volume of 200 µL. Xyloglucan oligosaccharides act as additional glycosyl acceptors so that both XET and XEH activity are recorded. The reaction was terminated after 60 min at 37°C via the addition of 0.1 mL of 1 n HCl. The remaining xyloglucan was then assayed by the iodine staining method as below. The XDA activity was calculated as the proportion of the xyloglucan (total 40 µg) degraded by 1 µg of cell wall protein in 60 min. Protein estimation was performed using the Bradford assay using a commercially available Bradford Reagent (Bio-Rad). Each experiment had four biological replicates. Experiments were repeated twice. Xyloglucan was determined by Kooiman’s iodine staining method with a slight modification (Kooiman 1960; CITATION). A 100-μL solution was mixed with 0.25 mL of an aqueous solution containing 0.5% I2 and 1.0% KI followed by 2.0 mL of an aqueous solution of 20% sodium sulfate. After the reaction mixture was kept for 1 h at 4°C in darkness, A640 was read. Xyloglucan contents were calculated and tamarind xyloglucan (Megazyme) was used as a standard. Xyloglucan was dissolved at room temperature with continuous stirring for 24 h and then kept at room temperature for two more days for complete dissolution. The cDNA of each of the XTH31 proteins was amplified without its own predicted secretion signal sequence and ligated into a pMD18-T vector using primers that contained XhoI and XbaI restriction sites. After sequencing, the XhoI-XbaI fragment from this plasmid was ligated into the pPICZαC vector in frame with the vector’s α-factor secretion signal sequence for production and secretion in the Pichia pastoris expression system (Invitrogen). This vector also provides a c-myc epitope and a His tag at the C terminus of the protein. The pPICZα-XTH expression vector was linearized with PmeI and introduced into the P. pastoris strain X33 by electroporation according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Multiple-copy integrants were selected on YPDS plates (yeast/peptone/dextrose/sorbitol regeneration medium) containing 100 µg mL−1 zeocin according to CITATION. Colony-PCR on selected colonies confirmed the presence of the expression construct in the yeast genome. Two selected and verified colonies (12a and 23c, which expressed the construct with XTH31; the empty vector expressed the construct without XTH31) were grown overnight in liquid buffered complex medium containing glycerol (BMGY) and 100 µg mL−1 zeocin at 28°C on a shaker at a speed of 250 rpm, and the same was done for the P. pastoris strain X33 wild type, except for the absence of 100 µg mL−1 zeocin. Then, 100 mL of BMGY medium in a 500-mL culture flask was inoculated with 80 μL of this culture and grown overnight under the same conditions until OD600 reached 2.0 to 6.0. Yeast cells were harvested by centrifugation (2000g for 5 min) and diluted to OD600 = 1 in buffered complex medium containing methanol (BMMY). Induction was performed in 1.0-liter flasks containing 200 mL of culture at 28°C, and the samples were cultivated on a shaker at 250 rpm for 4 d with the addition of methanol to a final concentration ∼1% every 24 h. At the end of the induction period, yeast cells were discarded by centrifugation (5000g for 10 min), and proteins were recovered from the medium by precipitation with 40% (w/v) ammonium sulfate and centrifugation (10,000g for 45 min). Pellets were redissolved in 0.5 M NaCl, 20 mM Tris-HCl, and 5 mM imidazole, pH 7.9, and dialyzed overnight against 8.0 liters of the same buffer. For a highly sensitive assay of XET activity, a radiochemical method based on that of CITATION was used. The reaction mixture (final volume 60 µL) contained (final concentrations) 1.7 mg/mL nonradioactive tamarind xyloglucan, 1.26 µM [1-3H]XXLGol (containing a small proportion of [1-3H]XLXGol; specific activity 66 MBq/µmol; synthesized by reacting tamarind xyloglucan oligosaccharides with NaB3H4 and purified by preparative thin layer chromatography), 67 mM succinate (Na+, pH 5.5), 0.5% chlorobutanol, and 20 μL enzyme preparation (added last; XTH31 from P. pastoris, protein from wild-type or empty vector P. pastoris, a crude grass extract [extracted by the method of CITATION from young shoots of the grass Holcus lanatus], or protein-free blank). At timed intervals, 10-μL aliquots were stopped with 10 μL formic acid, the acidified solution was dried onto Whatman 3MM paper, washed in running tap water for 24 h and redried, and any 3H-polysaccharide remaining on the paper was assayed in OptiScint HiSafe (Perkin-Elmer). XEH and XET activities were measured by a new method using [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan as substrate. This substrate was prepared by incubating a reaction mixture (final volume 600 µL) containing 50 kBq [1-3H]XXLGol, 1.7 mg/mL tamarind xyloglucan, 67 mM succinate (Na+, pH 5.5), and 200 μL of the XET-rich H. lanatus enzyme preparation at 20°C for 24 h. Products were then heated at 100°C for 1 h, denatured proteins were pelleted by centrifugation, and the [3H]xyloglucan in the supernatant was freed of buffer and oligosaccharides by dialysis twice against 0.5% chlorobutanol; yield = 35 kBq (specific activity ∼12.5 kBq/mg; median Mr ∼2 × 105). In the novel assay for XEH, the reaction mixture (final volume 70 µL) contained 1.3 kBq (1.5 mg/mL) [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan, 57 mM succinate (Na+, pH 5.5), 0.5% chlorobutanol, and 20 μL enzyme (as listed above; added last). For an assay of XET activity under comparable conditions, the reaction mixture was supplemented with 200 µM XXXG. In both assays, after 48 h at 20°C, the products were analyzed by chromatography on Whatman 3MM paper in ethyl acetate/acetic acid/water (10:5:6) for 48 h in the presence of external markers (maltoheptaose, maltotetraose, and [3H]XXLGol). Strips of the dried chromatogram were assayed for 3H in OptiScint HiSafe, which has a counting efficiency of ∼7% for oligosaccharides and ∼30% for xyloglucan. Nonradioactive markers were stained with AgNO3 (Fry, 2000). Mutant and wild-type roots were frozen, placed in ice-cold 3.2 M (NH4)2SO4, and stored at 4°C. Surplus (NH4)2SO4 solution was then removed, and roots (10 to 20 mg wet weight) were homogenized with a pestle in 250 μL of ice-cold 0.3 M succinate (Na+, pH 5.5) containing 10 mM CaCl2 and 20 mM ascorbate. The homogenate was left at 0°C for 2.5 h with occasional shaking and then centrifuged for 5 min at 13,000g. The supernatant enzyme solution (protein concentration 0.12 to 0.69 µg/μL by the Bradford assay) was aliquoted and stored at –80°C. XEH activity was assayed in a reaction mixture containing the buffered enzyme solution (64% v/v), 11.6 Bq/μL [reducing-end-3H]xyloglucan, and 0.18% (w/v) chlorobutanol at 20°C for 12 and 24 h. The [3H]octasaccharide released by hydrolysis (from 232 Bq substrate) was assayed by paper chromatography as above. XET activity was assayed in a reaction mixture containing buffered enzyme solution (50%, v/v), 2.5 µg/μL tamarind xyloglucan, and 114 Bq/μL [1-3H]XXLGol at 20°C. At intervals (0 to 4 h), 3H-polysaccharide (formed from 1140 Bq acceptor substrate) was assayed by paper binding as above. The Al content in each pellet was extracted by 2 n HCl for 24 h with occasional shaking. For total Al determination, roots were harvested and digested with HNO3:HClO4 (4:1, v/v). Al concentrations in the extracts were determined by inductively coupled plasma–atomic emission spectrometry (IRIS/AP optical emission spectrometer). To determine the ability of different cell wall components to adsorb Al, a total of 5 mg dried cell wall material was placed in a 2-mL column equipped with a filter at the bottom. The cell wall material was rehydrated for 2 h in 0.5 mM CaCl2 at pH 4.5. The adsorption solution consisted of 20 µM AlCl3 in 0.5 mM CaCl2 at pH 4.5. The solution was passed through the bed of cell walls by a peristaltic pump at 12 mL h−1. The eluate was collected in 4-mL aliquots, which were assayed for Al spectrophotometrically with pyrocatechol violet according to CITATION with some modification (CITATION). The kinetics study was performed twice independently, and one set of adsorption curves is presented in Results. For 27Al -NMR, 50 μL of 10 mM AlCl3 in 99.9% D2O was mixed either with 450 μL of 10 mg mL−1 polysaccharide solution or suspension (xyloglucan, glucomannan, mannan, polygalacturonic acid, glucuronoxylan, cellulose, or xylan, giving sugar residues:AlCl3 molar ratios of between 5.1:1 and 6.8:1) or with 400 μL 99.9% D2O and 50 μL of 10 mM citric acid (giving residues:AlCl3 molar ratios of 1:1) to a final volume of 500 µL. The 27Al-NMR spectra were obtained with a Bruker Advanced DMX 500 NMR. The parameters used were as follows: frequency range, 104.2 kHz; acquisition time, 0.31 s. Aluminum chloride (0.2 mM AlCl3 in 0.1 M HCl) was used as an external reference for calibration of the chemical shift. To assess the regulation of expression of Arabidopsis XTH31, we took the approach of generating transgenic plants expressing the GUS-encoding reporter gene under the control of the potential regulatory regions lying upstream of the XTH genes. Using gene-specific PCR primers (forward, 5′-GCAAGCTTGTTGATTTTGATTGGTTAT-3′; reverse, 5′-CGGATCCTTTTGAGTGAAGTAAAACCT-3′), we were able to generate DNA products corresponding to an ∼2.3-kb region found upstream from the translational start site of the XTH31. These PCR fragments were verified by sequencing and ligated upstream of the GUS reporter gene in the pBI 121 vector, which is capable of propagating in Agrobacterium tumefaciens and being transformed into plant cells. The full XTH31 coding sequence (XTH31 Full), the same without the whole signal peptide (XTH31 Wint), tXTH31 Full without the first 17 of the 19 putative SP residues (XTH31 Pint), and only the XTH31 signal peptide (XTH31 SP) were cloned in the pBI 221 vector under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and fused in the 3′ region with the GFP according to CITATION. Onion (Allium cepa) cells were bombarded at 900 p.s.i. with 5 µg of DNA plasmids for expression of the fusion with or without plasma membrane marker pm-rk CD-1007 or GFP alone as a control using a Biolistic PSD-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad). After particle bombardment, the samples were incubated for 24 to 60 h at 25°C in the dark. Samples were mounted on glass slides and inspected under a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 510; Zeiss). When indicated, cells were plasmolysed in saturated Suc for 15 min. The cDNA sequence of XTH31 was PCR amplified (forward, 5′-ACCCGGGATGGCTTTGTCTCTTATC-3′, reverse, 5′-CTCTAGAACATTCTGGTGTTTGGGTATG-3′), sequenced, subcloned into the pCAMBIA2300 vector, which was predigested with SmaI and XbaI, and then transferred into Agrobacterium (GV3101 strain) by heat shock. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the vacuum infiltration method described by CITATION. T1 transgenic lines were selected on plates containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 50 µg mL−1 kanamycin. The kanamycin-resistant seedlings were transferred to soil and grown to maturation to harvest the seeds. Each experiment was repeated independently at least two times, and one set of data is shown in Results. Data were analyzed by one-way analysis of variance, and the means were compared by Student’s t test. Different letters and asterisks on the histograms indicate statistical differences at the P < 0.05 level. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers:XTH31: At3g44990. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The Phenotypes of Col-0, xth31 Mutant, xth31 Complemented, and Overexpression Lines. Supplemental Figure 2. Photographs Are of Representative Col-0 and xth31 Roots Stained with Propidium Iodide. Supplemental Figure 3. Morin Staining of Col-0 and xth31. Supplemental Figure 4. Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR Analysis and GUS Analysis of XTH31 Expression in Various Tissues. Supplemental Figure 5. GUS Staining of XTH31 Expression in Stress. Supplemental Figure 6. Al Content in Root, Cell Wall, and Cell Wall Al Adsorption Kinetics. Supplemental Figure 7. Quantitative RT-PCR Analysis of Other XTH Gene Expression in Roots of xth31 Compared with Col-0. Supplemental Figure 8. 27Al-NMR Profile of AlCl3 in the Presence of Polysaccharide.
