!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes several families of polypeptides that are known or predicted to participate in the formation of the SCF-class of E3-ubiquitin ligase complexes. One such gene family encodes the Skp1-like class of polypeptide subunits, where 21 genes have been identified and are known to be expressed in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis based on deduced polypeptide sequence organizes the family of ASK proteins into 7 clades. The complexity of the ASK gene family, together with the close structural similarity among its members raises the prospect of significant functional redundancy among select paralogs. We have assessed the potential for functional redundancy within the ASK gene family by analyzing an expanded set of criteria that define redundancy with higher resolution. The criteria used include quantitative expression of locus-specific transcripts using qRT-PCR, assessment of the sub-cellular localization of individual ASK:YFP auto-fluorescent fusion proteins expressed in vivo as well as the in planta assessment of individual ASK-F-Box protein interactions using bimolecular fluorescent complementation techniques in combination with confocal imagery in live cells. The results indicate significant functional divergence of steady state transcript abundance and protein-protein interaction specificity involving ASK proteins in a pattern that is poorly predicted by sequence-based phylogeny. The information emerging from this and related studies will prove important for defining the functional intersection of expression, localization and gene product interaction that better predicts the formation of discrete SCF complexes, as a prelude to investigating their molecular mode of action.
!~RES~! A phylogenetic analysis of relatedness within the ASK gene family of Arabidopsis reveals that the 21 members of this gene family fall into 7 distinct clades when clustered on the basis of primary deduced amino acid sequence, as summarized in CITATION. This clustering of the predicted ASK proteins is consistent with published results, where ASK1 and ASK2 are grouped within a clade and were found to overlap functionally and are known to be essential for early development in Arabidopsis CITATION. We used this phylogenetic tree as a basis to assess the functional relatedness among ASK paralogs as measured by three functional criteria: tissue/organ-specific transcript abundance, sub-cellular localization of YFP-tagged ASK proteins, and the protein-protein interaction profiles of ASK proteins in conjunction with selected F-Box proteins expressed as BiFC fusion constructs. The phylogenetic grouping of ASK genes based on their deduced primary amino acid sequence was calculated using the NJ method described. The genes are grouped into seven distinct clades as denoted by the vertical lines. Numbers at the branches represents percentage bootstrap support calculated for a 1000 replicates. All tree branches are scaled to the number of amino acid substations per site. A qRT-PCR analysis of transcript abundance was undertaken for members of the ASK gene family which reside in common phylogenetic clades based on their primary deduced amino acid sequence (ASK1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11/12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21). Included were two genes known to be associated with SCF type E3-Ub function (CUL1, TIR1) as well as β6-tubulin, Actin2 and UBQ10 as internal reference controls. We were unable to design unique qRT-PCR primers capable of distinguishing ASK11 from ASK12 transcripts, due to the high DNA sequence similarity (99.3%) between these two genes. Thus, for purposes of this study, a single primer pair for ASK11/ASK12 was used. Transcript-specific primers and their associated genomic identifiers are listed in Tables S1 and S2. Transcript abundance was quantified in cDNA preparations constructed from total RNA fractions prepared from rosette leaves of plants prior to stage 5.2, roots of 7-day-old seedlings, green stems (1st and 2nd internodes of bolted plants), green siliques with seeds (late heart to mid torpedo embryo), whole 5-day-old seedlings, old stage 9 whole flowers (petal primordia stalked at base) from 19–23-day-old plants and stage 15 whole flowers (stigma extends above long anther) from 21–23-day-old plants CITATION. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis and cDNA measurements were the result of 3 independent experiments involving 2 biological replicate samples for each as summarized in CITATION, where data for each gene/organ combination are shown and clustered on the basis of their relative expression abundance across all biological samples analyzed (CITATION). ; RNA from the indicated organs was isolated and used to assess ASK gene expression as described in the CITATION. Organs examined were 4–5-day-old seedlings, stage 5 leaves, green stem, green siliques, stage 9 flowers, and stage 15 flowers. Gene expression is depicted in MNE units ± SE after ACTIN2 normalization. Data are means of two independent biological repetitions ± SE. B; Cluster summary of the Pearson-based hierarchical clustering of ASK gene expression among select organs. The colors represent genes within the different phylogenetic clades as defined within CITATION. From this analysis, and in agreement with previously published studies, the relative abundance of mRNAs for ASK1 and ASK2 were found to be elevated and constant in comparison to other ASK genes across all biological organs examined CITATION, CITATION. However for the common clade comprised of ASK3 and ASK4, the transcripts for these two genes were found to be expressed at markedly different steady state levels, where the abundance of ASK4 mRNA was consistently an order of magnitude higher in all organs examined except siliques. Moreover, the relative expression of ASK3 was found to be elevated in reproductive organs in comparison to other organs, whereas ASK4 mRNA abundance was relatively constant across all organs examined. When expressed as the ratio relative to whole seedling organs, ASK3 mRNA was found to be 500-fold more abundant in green siliques (CITATION) and was elevated in stage 9 and stage 15 flowers excised from 21–25-day-old plants (CITATION). In contrast, the expression ratio for ASK4 mRNA was found to be only modestly elevated (about 3-4-fold) in these same organs. All gene expression was normalized relative to ACTIN2 expression. A; Relative abundance of ASK gene cDNAs in flowers from stage 9 plants relative to seedlings. B; Relative abundance of ASK cDNAs in stage 15 flowers relative to seedlings. C; Relative expression of ASK genes in siliques relative to seedlings. A distinct expression pattern was observed within the clade comprised of ASK5/6/13 where ASK13 transcripts were found to have a relatively higher abundance in foliar tissues and the silique. ASK6 transcripts were not detectable in the organs examined (data not shown), whereas its close paralog ASK5 albeit lower than ASK13, expressed measurable transcripts in all organs examined (CITATION). Although ASK6 has been suggested in the literature to be a pseudogene CITATION we think this is unlikely since ASK6 cDNA has been enriched from a low-abundance RNA library and the corresponding clone is available from the ABRC stock center (stock number PENTR221-AT3G53060). Within the phylogenetic clade defined by ASK7,8,9,10, all four gene transcripts were found to be relatively abundant in tissues from later-stage flowers (stage 15) and siliques, whereas their abundance was relatively low in earlier (stage 9) flowers compared to seedlings (CITATION). The ASK10 gene expression pattern was unique among genes defining the ASK7,8,9,10 clade in that it exhibited a conspicuously lower relative transcript level compared to the other 3 genes in the clade. For the clade defined by ASK20 and ASK21, transcripts were expressed at a relatively low and constant level, with a modest increase in abundance (2- to 4-fold) in stage 9 and stage 15 flowers (CITATION). Interestingly, the expression pattern of ASK20 and ASK21 most closely resembled that of ASK1 and ASK2 in light of their constant level of expression throughout development of Arabidopsis. The lowest transcript level in comparison to all other ASK genes studied was observed for ASK14,15 which co-reside within the clade comprising ASK14,15,16,17,18,19. However, transcripts for these two genes showed a distinct expression pattern between them in that ASK15 was expressed only in roots and siliques (CITATION) whereas ASK14, similar to ASK5, was expressed preferentially in early stages of flower development (stage 9) followed by a decline in transcript abundance at later stages of flower maturation (stage15) and silique development. The data underlying the observed pattern of relative abundance of mRNAs for each ASK gene, across all organ sources examined, was submitted to clustering analysis with the resulting grouping presented in CITATION. The data indicate that ASK4 and ASK 11/12 are similar with respect to the relative abundance of their respective transcripts and their pattern of expression across the organs examined. In this analysis, ASK3 mRNA abundance in the organ samples assessed was distinct from ASK4 as its closest primary sequence paralog in Arabidopsis. It should be noted that several deviations were observed between the expression data here versus the microarray data available through several databases such as Bio-Array CITATION, CITATION and GeneInvestigator™ CITATION. In those instances where deviations were observed, such variations could be attributed to the probes used in the microarray construction. For instance, and in contrast to our findings, closely related genes such as ASK3 and ASK4 as well as ASK20 and ASK21 exhibit identical expression behaviour when measured using microarray approaches (CITATION), where the results can be explained by the use of probes that did not distinguish between the mRNAs encoded by these two genes. One explanation for the presence of the large number of ASK proteins in Arabidopsis could be a corresponding diversity of sub-cellular localization for some of the ASK proteins. A study was therefore undertaken to evaluate the sub-cellular localization profile of 9 selected ASK proteins expressed as functional fusions with the YFP auto-fluorescent protein in transgenic Arabidopsis. The YFP:ASK fusion proteins were expressed from CaMV 35S promoter constructs assembled and transformed into Arabidopsis as described, and the results are summarized in CITATION. Propidium iodide (PI) staining was used to visualize cell walls and general morphology in whole mounts of roots and 5-day-old seedling leaf epidermal cells including guard cells (CITATION). The signal arising from chlorophyll auto-fluorescence is shown in CITATION. In parallel, cellular expression and sub-cellular localization of the YFP:ASK3 fusion protein is shown in CITATION, and the composite PI-YFP images is shown in CITATION. Taken together, and in agreement with previous studies described for ASK1 CITATION, CITATION, YFP:ASK3 proteins accumulate in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm in epidermal leaf cells of Arabidopsis. We observed no overlap between the YFP and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence signals, suggesting that the extra-nuclear YFP:ASK3 fusion protein does not detectably localize to the chloroplast and largely accumulates in the cytoplasm. ; Propidium iodide-stained epidermal root cell walls or leaf epidermal cell walls and guard cell nuclei. B; Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence from the leaf mesophyll cell layer. D–F; stable expression of N-terminal YFP-tagged ASK3 protein in transgenic Arabidopsis. G–I; merged channels corresponding to panels (A–C) and (D–F). This same pattern of YFP fusion protein accumulation in the nucleus and cytoplasm, with no significant localization to chloroplasts was reiterated across all other YFP:ASK gene fusions assessed (ASK1,2,3,4,5,6,8, 9,10) with the exception of ASK8 (see CITATION). The YFP:ASK8 protein fusion, when expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis was found to apparently aggregate predominantly in the nuclei of epidermal leaf cells, resulting in highly localized and intense YFP signals. Notably, these aggregates were not observed in root tissues of the same transgenic lines (CITATION). In order to investigate whether the apparent aggregation of ASK8 was the result of YFP:ASK8 over-expression, the expression of this fusion was compared to that of the YFP:ASK1 protein using Western blot analysis. As shown in CITATION, the level of YFP:ASK8 expression in three independent lines was qualitatively lower than that of the YFP:ASK1 fusion protein. Although ASK sub-cellular localization resembles that of GFP sub-cellular localization, the lack of available ASK protein-specific antibodies precludes the possibility of taking immunohistochemical approaches to localizing nascent ASK proteins in situ. However, we noted that the majority of reported SCF substrates in Arabidopsis are known transcription factors CITATION, CITATION, which is consistent with our observation of a general nuclear localization of YFP-ASK fusion proteins. To investigate whether N-terminal fusions could mask nascent localization signals, C-terminal CFP fusion constructs using the ASK1 coding region were generated, and a similar localization pattern was observed following transient expression in N. benthamiana leaves (CITATION). In addition, we asked whether other known SCF ligase subunits exhibited a similar localization pattern to ASK proteins, suggesting the potential for co-localization and participation in SCF complex assembly. Upon assessing the localization pattern of TIR1 and CUL1 as C-terminal CFP fusions, we found that a similar localization was observed relative to the YFP:ASK protein studies described above (CITATION,B). Previous studies have shown that individual protein products of the ASK gene family exhibit both general as well as specific protein-protein interactions involving select F-Box proteins, when assessed in the heterologous yeast 2-hybrid system CITATION, CITATION. This property of generalized versus specific F-box protein interaction capability is of importance for determining which specific ASK polypeptides are capable of interacting with specific F-Box proteins, with implications for the combinatorial diversity of SCF E3-Ub complexes that could form in vivo involving subunit polypeptides of either class. Accordingly, we undertook to analyze the in situ interaction of polypeptides encoded by ASK1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9 and ASK10 in combination with a selected panel of 7 F-Box proteins (TIR1, SLY1, COI1, EID1, SKP2A, AFR and UFO) known to participate in SCF complex assembly. These proteins are involved in the regulation of diverse aspects of plant development such as auxin sensing, circadian rhythm maintenance, ethylene sensing, patterning and development CITATION, CITATION, CITATION–CITATION. Protein interactions were assessed as the reconstitution of fluorescence signal upon co-expression of all 56 pair-wise combinations of split-YFP fusion expression constructs assembled as described in the CITATION, and subsequently expressed through co-infection of Agrobacterium-containing constructs in the high-fidelity N. benthamiana transient expression system CITATION. The data for a subset of 16 pair-wise combinations of ASK-F-Box interactions are summarized in CITATION with the exception of ASK2 which is shown in CITATION. Visualization of BiFC-based sub-cellular protein interactions between select ASK and F-Box proteins (TIR1 or UFO) in N. benthamiana epidermal leaf cells: YFP signal indicates a positive interaction; chlorophyll auto-fluorescence is shown in red. A–H; protein interactions between TIR1 and the ASK1,3,4,9 proteins expressed as BiFC fusion expression constructs. I–P; protein interactions between UFO and ASK1,3,4,9 proteins expressed as BiFC fusion expression constructs. Q; The indicated interaction map was developed as described in the CITATION, and summarizes the results obtained following transient expression of BiFC constructs in N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells. Edge lines joining nodes represent a positive interaction. With respect to protein interactions involving TIR1, five ASK polypeptides (ASK1,2,3,4 and ASK9) were found to interact with TIR1 in vivo. Interestingly, the interaction signal observed was predominantly localized to the nucleus in leaf epidermal cells (CITATION). Similarly, expression fusion products involving ASK1,2,3,4 and 9 were found to interact with UFO in a pattern that was analogous to TIR1. Although closely related at the primary amino acid sequence level with ASK9, split-YFP expression constructs involving ASK10 did not detectably interact in vivo with TIR1 or UFO. The results summarizing binary protein interactions involving the remaining 40 F-Box-ASK combinations are depicted in the interaction map shown in CITATION. For all protein interactions involving COI and TIR1, the YFP signal was restricted to the nucleus, whereas all other F-Box-ASK protein combinations were observed in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Also noteworthy was the finding that SKP2a interacted with ASK3 in the split-YFP system but not with ASK4, notwithstanding the high degree of deduced primary amino acid sequence similarity between these two ASK polypeptides (94.5%). Considering that all ASK and F-Box proteins tested were found to interact with at least one other binding partner, we concluded that the observed negative interacting protein combinations were biologically significant and were not due to low levels of protein expression. To confirm that protein expression among the observed negative interacting combinations was comparable to that of positive interacting proteins, we cloned select F-Box and ASK coding domains into a second set of BIFC vectors where the split-YFP coding region incorporated c-Myc- and HA-tag domains, thus facilitating comparative protein expression studies via Western Blot analysis CITATION. As shown in CITATION, from the select proteins investigated all were expressed to levels qualitatively comparable to that of the positive interacting proteins, indicating that the observed negative interactions were not due to the lack of protein expression.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used throughout the study (ABRC stock No. CS7000). Seeds were sterilized by brief sequential washes in 50% ethanol and 50% Bleach/SDS prior to plating on 0.5X MS medium CITATION containing 1% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. Seeds from treated plants were harvested, sterilized and stratified at 4°C for 2–3 days prior to plating and germination on solid 0.5X MS medium containing 50 µM D,L-phosphinothricin (a gift from Bayer Crop Science Canada) using the rapid procedure as described CITATION. Two to three independent transgenic plants were subsequently selected for each analysis. For all expression constructs, a summary of standard gene nomenclature and molecular constructs are summarized in Table S1. For 35S-YFP-ASK(s) plasmid assembly, Gateway™-compatible cDNA clones were obtained from the ABRC stock center (Columbus, OH; see Table S1) and were cloned into pEarleyGate104 CITATION using the commercial Gateway™ recombination system (Invitrogen). To assemble 35S-ASK1-CFP, 35S-TIR1-CFP and 35S-CUL1-CFP constructs, termination codons were first removed from the cDNA clones by PCR amplification of the coding region using the indicated primers (Table S2). Amplified PCR products were subsequently cloned into pDONR221 using the Gateway™ recombination system prior to recombination into pEarleyGate102 CITATION. All recombinants were sequenced to verify the integrity of expression constructs. To assemble the described BiFC constructs, cDNA domains coding for the indicated ASK and F-Box proteins were fused to the N- or C-terminal domains of EYFP (nEYFP or cEYFP). The ASK Gateway™-based cDNA clones (listed in Table S3) were subsequently cloned into BiFP2 CITATION vectors using the Gateway™ recombination system, resulting in an experimental set of 35S-cEYFP-ASK constructs. Similarly, F-Box protein-encoding cDNA clones were cloned into BiFP3 CITATION, resulting in the 35S-nEYFP-F-Box set of constructs. A complete list of the vectors used is summarized in Table S4. In those instances where the entry clone and destination plasmid backbone carried the same selection marker, for cloning purposes 1 µg of the pEntry plasmid was initially digested and counter-selected by restriction digestion with MluI prior to input to the LR clonase reaction. Correct expression of the desired BiFC fusion products was independently evaluated in N. benthamiana leaves by construction, transformation and expression of select ASK and F-Box fusions in the pE-SPYNE-GW and pE-SPYCE-GW gateway compatible BiFC vectors harboring Myc and HA tags at the N-terminus of the split YFP domain, respectively CITATION. The 35S-YFP-ASK constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 by electroporation, and the presence of transgenes were confirmed by in situ PCR. Plant transformations were performed using the floral dip method CITATION. Seeds from treated plants were harvested, sterilized and stratified at 4°C for 2–3 days prior to plating and germination on solid 0.5X MS medium containing 50 µM D,L-phosphinothricin (a gift from Bayer Crop Science Canada) using a rapid procedure previously described CITATION. Two to three independent transgenic plants were subsequently selected for each analysis. Protein was extracted following fusion construct expression in a N. benthamiana transient expression system.100 mg of leaves, infiltrated with the indicated expression constructs were ground in liquid nitrogen and mixed with 100 µl of extraction buffer [100 mm Tris·HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Triton X-100, 1× EDTA free Complete protease inhibitors (Roche Applied Science)] CITATION. Extracts were centrifuged at 14,000 g for 15 min and the supernatant was collected. Proteins were resolved by 12% SDS-PAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane using a TransblotSD™ Semi Dry Transfer (Biorad) in Bjerrum and Schaefer-Nielsen buffer (48 mM TRIS, 39 mM glycine, 20% methanol). The blots were incubated with either anti-HA (Y-11) or anti-c-myc (9E10) antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) at a 1∶1,000 dilution in 1% skim milk powder in TBST overnight at 4°C. Blots were washed 3 times with TBST for 10 min and incubated with secondary antibody at a 1∶10,000 dilution in 2% skim milk/TBST for 1 h at room temperature. Blots were subsequently washed and exposed using Pico West Reagent™ (Fisher Scientific) and imaged using an AlphaImager device (Alpha Innotech Corp., San Leandro, CA). All BiFC vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 by electroporation, and the presence of transgenes was confirmed by in situ PCR. Mixed Agrobacterium cultures were co-infiltrated to the abaxial surface of 3–4 week-old N. benthamiana plants as described CITATION. The p19 protein of tomato bushy stunt virus was co-expressed with all binary BiFC expression constructs in order to suppress gene silencing CITATION. Fluorescence signals were visualized in epidermal cell layers of the leaves after 3 days of infiltration using confocal microscopy. Imaging of BiFC signals in planta was done using an Olympus Model FV1000 point-scanning/point-detection laser scanning confocal microscope. Cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and propidium iodide (PI) were excited by using 440, 512 and 543 nm laser lines, respectively. When using multiple fluorophores simultaneously, images were acquired sequentially in order to reduce excitation and emission overlaps. Olympus water immersion PLAPO60XWLSM (NA 1.0) and UPLSAPO 20× (NA 0.75) objectives were employed. Image acquisition was conducted at a resolution of 512×512 pixels, with a scan rate of 10 ms per pixel. Olympus FLUOVIEW v1.5 software was used for image acquisition and the export of TIFF files. Figures were assembled using GIMP 2.0 (http://www.gimp.org/). Total RNA was isolated using a commercial mini-preparation kit (RNeasy™, Qiagen) and contaminating DNA was removed using an immobilized DNAse column (RNAse-Free DNAse Set™, Qiagen). Two micrograms of total RNA was used as template for first strand cDNA synthesis in a 20 µL reaction using the RevertAid™ synthesis kit (Fermentas). The resulting cDNA was diluted 1∶20 and 1.5 µL of cDNA was used in a standard 20 µL PCR reaction. Analysis of gene expression used the Maxima™ Sybr-green qPCR master mix (Fermentas) in an Applied Biosystems 7300 RT- PCR System, following the manufacturer’s instructions. The primers used in the qRT-PCR analyses are listed in Table S4. To identify the optimal internal reference control β6-tubulin, ACTIN2 and UBQ10 expression was assessed across all organs. ACTIN2 (At3g18780) transcript expression showed the least amount of variation across all tissues examined and was used as the internal standard in order to normalize the qRT-PCR data. Real time PCR results were analyzed using Q-Gene software that expresses data as Mean Normalized Expression (MNE) CITATION which is directly proportional to the amount of mRNA of the target genes relative to the amount of mRNA of the ACTIN2 internal reference standard. In brief, to calculate MNE, the PCR efficiency (E), mean cycle threshold (Ct) and related standard errors (SEs) were used to calculate ECt for both the reference and target genes. MNE was subsequently calculated by dividing the ECt of the reference gene by the ECt of the target gene. Gene expression is depicted in MNE units after ACTIN2 normalization (Table S5). Two biological and 3 sample replicates were performed for each tissue/organ studied while taking into consideration the efficiency of the reaction for each primer combination CITATION. Data is depicted as the mean of two independent biological repetitions ± SE. To calculate the relative fold-change expression among ASK genes, the ‘Relative Expression Software Tool-Multiple Condition Solver’ (REST-MCS) was used CITATION, CITATION. Pearson-based hierarchical clustering of ASK gene expression data was done using the online version of Expression Profiler found at EBI (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/expressionprofiler/) CITATION. ASK protein sequences were retrieved from the TAIR10 genome annotation data set (http://www.arabidopsis.org/). Multiple alignments were carried out using the CLUSTAL algorithm found within the MEGA 4 software suite CITATION using a BLOSUM 30 matrix with a gap penalty of 10, an extended gap penalty of 0.2 and a gap distance of 5. The tree was constructed using the Neighbor Joining (NJ) method utilizing the p-distance substitution method in MEGA 4 and node reliability was calculated using 1,000 Bootstrap replicas CITATION. In order to evaluate different clustering methods for their possible effect on tree construction, we compared three different methods: NJ Maximum Parsimony, Un-weighted Pair Group and Arithmetic Mean (UPGMA) using MEGA 4. This comparison revealed slight differences in the clustering pattern. Clustering using UPGMA resulted in the grouping of ASK13 with ASK11 and ASK12 but not with ASK5 and ASK6. However, based on the chromosomal location and supporting literature CITATION we believe that ASK13 is a result of tandem duplication of ASK5, thus NJ clustering was used for this study.
