!~ABS~! Environmental and endogenous signals, including light, temperature, brassinosteroid (BR), and gibberellin (GA), regulate cell elongation largely by influencing the expression of the paclobutrazol-resistant (PRE) family helix-loop-helix (HLH) factors, which promote cell elongation by interacting antagonistically with another HLH factor, IBH1. However, the molecular mechanism by which PREs and IBH1 regulate gene expression has remained unknown. Here, we show that IBH1 interacts with and inhibits a DNA binding basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein, HBI1, in Arabidopsis thaliana. Overexpression of HBI1 increased hypocotyl and petiole elongation, whereas dominant inactivation of HBI1 and its homologs caused a dwarf phenotype, indicating that HBI1 is a positive regulator of cell elongation. In vitro and in vivo experiments showed that HBI1 directly bound to the promoters and activated two EXPANSIN genes encoding cell wall–loosening enzymes; HBI1’s DNA binding and transcriptional activities were inhibited by IBH1, but the inhibitory effects of IBH1 were abolished by PRE1. The results indicate that PREs activate the DNA binding bHLH factor HBI1 by sequestering its inhibitor IBH1. Altering each of the three factors affected plant sensitivities to BR, GA, temperature, and light. Our study demonstrates that PREs, IBH1, and HBI1 form a chain of antagonistic switches that regulates cell elongation downstream of multiple external and endogenous signals.
!~RES~! Previous studies showed that IBH1 and PRE1 interact with each other and antagonistically regulate cell elongation (CITATION). To further understand the function of PRE1 and IBH1 in regulating cell elongation, we performed RNA-Seq experiments to define transcriptomic changes caused by overexpression of IBH1, which results in a dwarf phenotype, and overexpression of PRE1, which suppresses the dwarf phenotype caused by IBH1 overexpression (Figure 1A). Wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing IBH1 (IBH1-Ox) or overexpressing both IBH1 and PRE1 (IBH1-Ox/PRE1-Ox) were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 1% Suc under constant light for 5 d. RNA-Seq analysis identified 1547 genes that increased or decreased >1.5-fold in IBH1-Ox compared with wild-type plants and 2473 genes affected in IBH1-Ox/PRE1-Ox compared with IBH1-Ox (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Quantitative RT-PCR analyses of nine genes confirmed the gene expression changes identified by RNA-Seq (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Of the 1547 genes affected by IBH1-Ox, 720 genes (46.5%) were also affected in IBH1-Ox/PRE1-Ox double transgenic plants compared with IBH1-Ox single transgenic plants (Figure 1B). Among these coregulated genes, 661 genes (91.8%) were affected in the opposite way by IBH1-Ox and PRE1-Ox (Figure 1C), with a correlation coefficient R = −0.76, consistent with PRE1 inhibiting IBH1. [[FIGURE]] Phylogenetic analysis of IBH1 protein showed that IBH1, UPBEAT1 (UPB1), and AIFs belong to the same bHLH subfamily (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Previous studies showed that AIFs encode atypical bHLH proteins and are speculated to have no DNA binding ability (CITATION). However, UPB1 is reported to bind DNA and directly regulate a set of peroxidases to control the balance between cellular proliferation and differentiation (CITATION). Using online PRALINE multiple sequence alignment software, we analyzed the protein sequences of IBH1, UPB1, and AIFs. The results revealed that the HLH domain and AS domain were highly conserved in these proteins, whereas the basic domain was very variable and UBP1did not even contain the basic domain (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). In spite of nine basic residues at the N-terminal side of the basic domain of IBH1, IBH1 lacks the conserved residues that are necessary for binding E-box or G-box DNA (CITATION), and IBH1 belongs to a phylogenic group that contains mostly non-DNA binding HLH factors (CITATION). To determine the function of this basic domain and the AS domain, we deleted each of them and overexpressed the truncated proteins in transgenic plants under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. More than 250 T1 plants for each construct were analyzed for growth phenotype. The transgenic plants overexpressing full-length wild-type IBH1 displayed a range of strong and weak dwarf phenotypes. Deletion of the basic domain had no obvious effect on the phenotype caused by overexpression, indicating that the basic domain is not necessary for IBH1’s function; thus, IBH1 is likely to function as an HLH factor without DNA binding activity. By contrast, deletion of the AS domain reduced the number of plants showing dwarf phenotypes and increased plants with no phenotype (Figures 2A and 2B), indicating that the conserved AS domain is essential for the function of IBH1 in repressing cell elongation. [[FIGURE]] Without a conserved basic domain to bind DNA, IBH1 is likely to heterodimerize with DNA binding transcription factors. In the public Arabidopsis interactome database, we found that IBH1 interacts with five homologous typical bHLH proteins, including BEE2, At2g18300 (named here as HBI1), BPE, CIB1, and At5g48560 (CITATION). The IBH1 homolog protein AIF1 interacts with BEE1 and BEE2, and AIF2 also interacts with CIB1 and BPE (CITATION; CITATION). Interactions between multiple members of the IBH1/AIFs subfamily and members of the BEE/CIB subfamily suggest that this is a conserved mechanism important for the function of these HLH/bHLH factors (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). We performed yeast two-hybrid assays to confirm some of these interactions. The results showed that both HBI1 and BEE2 interact with IBH1 in yeast, and this interaction needs the IBH1 AS domain but not the basic domain (Figure 3A). By contrast, IBH1 interacts with PRE1 through its HLH domain and does not require the AS domain or basic domain (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Figure 3 online), indicating that the AS domain is specifically required for the interaction between IBH1 and HBI1. We also performed overlay assays to test the direct interaction between IBH1 and HBI1 in vitro. Incubating gel blots of MBP and MBP-IBH1 with glutathione S-transferase (GST)-HBI1 and anti-GST antibodies detected strong binding of GST-HBI1 to MBP-IBH1, but not to MBP, indicating that GST-HBI1 interacts with MBP-IBH1 in vitro (Figure 3B). Consistent with the yeast and in vitro assays, coimmunoprecipitation assays showed that IBH1 interacts with HBI1 in vivo (Figure 3C). These results demonstrated that IBH1 binds to HBI1 through the AS domain of IBH1. [[FIGURE]] Previous study showed that single or double mutants of BEE2 and its two homologous genes BEE1 and BEE3 did not have any obvious developmental phenotype, and only the bee1 bee2 bee3 triple knockout mutant showed a slightly shorter hypocotyl than that of wild-type seedlings, suggesting that these BEEs redundantly promote cell elongation (CITATION). The subtle phenotype of the bee triple mutant suggests that other homologous genes may have redundant roles (CITATION). HBI1 is the closest homolog of BEE2 in the phylogenetic tree, and microarray analysis showed that HBI1 is preferentially expressed in hypocotyl and cotyledon (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), suggesting that HBI1 may play a major role in hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon expansion. To study the function of HBI1, we transformed wild-type Arabidopsis with a construct of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter driving expression of the HBI1 cDNA fused with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). A total of 65 transgenic lines were generated, and about two-thirds of them (44 plants) showed no obvious phenotype. The other lines showed opposite phenotypes: Nine plants showed dwarf, late-flowering, and short-petiole phenotypes, and 12 plants flowered early and had long petioles (Figure 4A). To address why these 35S:HBI1-YFP transgenic plants showed opposite phenotypes, we analyzed the HBI1 expression level in these plants. The quantitative RT-PCR results showed that the HBI1 expression levels were lower in the dwarf plants but higher in the plants with long petioles than in wild-type plants, indicating the dwarf phenotype was caused by HBI1 cosuppression (HBI1-CS), and the long-petiole phenotype was caused by HBI1 overexpression (HBI1-Ox) (Figure 4B). We also analyzed the expression levels of HBI1 homologous genes in the HBI1 cosuppression lines. The results showed that in addition to HBI1, the transcript levels of BEE2, CIB1, CIB3, and CIB1L also decreased (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The HBI1-CS plants also had short hypocotyls and small cotyledons, but the HBI1-Ox plants had long hypocotyls (Figures 4C and 4D). These results indicated HBI1 and its homologs are positive regulators of cell elongation and expansion. [[FIGURE]] Considering the high level of functional redundancy of BEE family members, we generated a dominant repressor version of HBI1 using chimeric repressor silencing technology, in which HBI1 was fused with a 12–amino acid EAR motif repressor domain (SRDX) (CITATION). Expression of HBI1-SRDX driven by the constitutive 35S promoter resulted in dwarf transgenic plants similar to the HBI1-CS plants but opposite to the HBI1-Ox plants (Figure 4E). These results suggest that HBI1 normally functions as a transcriptional activator. BR and GA promote cell elongation partly by increasing the expression of expansins, which loosen the cell wall (CITATION; CITATION). Real-time RT-PCR analyses showed that the expression levels of EXP1 and EXP8 were reduced in the HBI1-CS and HBI1-SRDX plants but increased in the HBI1-Ox plants, suggesting that HBI1 promotes cell elongation by activating the expression of expansins (Figure 4F). A previous study showed that BEE2 is an early BR response gene and is required for the full BR response (CITATION). The sequence similarity between BEE2 and HBI1 suggests that HBI1 may also mediate BR response. To test this hypothesis, we overexpressed HBI1 in a weak BR-insensitive mutant, bri1-5. The transgenic plants showed longer hypocotyls and petioles than bri1-5 (Figures 5A and 5B). In addition, the HBI1-Ox plants in the wild-type background also exhibited longer hypocotyls than the wild type when grown on normal medium and on media containing the BR biosynthesis inhibitor propiconazole (PPZ) (Figures 5C and 5D) or the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (PAC) (Figures 5E and 5F). [[FIGURE]] The facts that PRE1 and HBI1 promote cell elongation, IBH1 represses cell elongation, and IBH1 interacts with both PRE1 and HBI1 raised the possibility that the ratio between these positive and negative regulators determines the outcome of cell elongation. To test this possibility, we crossed the HBI1-Ox transgenic plants with IBH1-Ox and pre-amiR. The F1 plants showed phenotypes intermediate between the parental plants, consistent with IBH1 inactivating HBI1 and PREs being required to inactivate IBH1 (Figures 6A and 6B). [[FIGURE]] The basic domain of HBI1 contains the Glu-13, Arg-16, and Arg-17 residues conserved in most known DNA binding bHLH proteins (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), and its homolog CIB1 has been shown to bind to the G-box (CITATION), suggesting that HBI1 can bind the E box (5′-CANNTG-3′) or G-box (5′-CACGTG-3′) (CITATION). HBI1 activates the transcription of EXP1 (Figure 4F), and there are three G-box and 13 E-box motifs in the promoter of EXP1 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), suggesting that HBI1 may bind to the EXP1 promoter. We thus performed DNA-protein pull-down experiments to test whether HBI1 binds DNA and whether IBH1 and PRE1 affect its DNA binding ability. We amplified a DNA fragment of EXP1 containing one G-box and four E-box motifs using biotin-labeled primers (see Supplemental Figure 6 online) and incubated it with MBP-HBI1 and/or MBP, MBP-IBH1, and MBP-PRE1. The results showed that the biotinylated EXP1 DNA fragment could pull down MBP-HBI1 but not MBP, MBP-IBH1, or MBP-PRE1 (Figure 6C), confirming the specific HBI1 binding to the EXP1 promoter and the lack of DNA binding activity for IBH1 and PRE1. Incubation of MBP-HBI1 with MBP-IBH1 dramatically reduced HBI1 binding to DNA, whereas addition of MBP-PRE1 recovered HBI1-DNA binding. These results indicate that IBH1 inhibits HBI1-DNA binding, but PRE1 blocks the IBH1’s inhibitory effect (Figure 6C). To test whether IBH1 and PRE1 affect the DNA binding of HBI1 in vivo, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative real-time PCR (ChIP-qPCR) assays. ChIP-qPCR results showed that HBI1 binds to the promoters of EXP1 and EXP8 in vivo. Overexpression of IBH1 (IBH1-Ox) significantly reduced HBI1 binding to these promoters (Figure 6D). Suppression of PREs (pre-amiR) also reduced HBI1-DNA binding, consistent with PRE1 being required for inhibiting IBH1 and possibly IBH1 homologs too. Treatments of plants with BR and GA, which activate PRE1 expression, increased the HBI1 DNA binding in vivo, whereas light treatment showed no obvious effect (Figure 6E). Finally, we analyzed the effects of IBH1 and PRE1 on the transcription activity of HBI1 in protoplast transient assays. The expression level of an EXP1 promoter-luciferase reporter gene was increased by overexpression of HBI1. This HBI1-mediated transcription increase was abolished by co-overexpression of IBH1 but was recovered by additional co-overexpression of PRE1 (Figure 6F). Together, these results indicate that IBH1 interacts with HBI1 and inhibits HBI1 binding to DNA, but PRE1 binds to IBH1 to prevent its inhibition of HBI1, thereby activating HBI1. BR and GA act through this cascade of interacting HLH/bHLH factors to promote HBI1 activation of target gene expression and cell elongation. Previous studies showed that PREs play an essential role in cell elongation responses to BR, GA, temperature, and light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To confirm that the PRE-IBH1-HBI1 module mediates regulation of cell elongation by these signals, we examined the hypocotyl responses to these signals in the pre-amiR, IBH1-Ox, and HBI1-SRDX plants. BR, GA, and elevated temperature dramatically promoted hypocotyl elongation in wild-type plants, whereas the hypocotyls of the pre-amiR, IBH1-Ox, and HBI1-SRDX transgenic plants were much less sensitive to these stimuli (Figures 7A to 7C). These transgenic plants also showed enhanced sensitivity to light (Figure 7D). These results support that the regulatory chain formed by PREs, IBH1, and HBI1 is a central mechanism of cell elongation regulation shared by these hormonal and environmental signaling pathways. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype was used as the wild-type control for phenotype comparison and for generating the transgenic plants. Seeds were surface sterilized for 15 min with 75% ethanol and plated on half-strength MS basal salt medium (Phyto-Technology Laboratories) supplemented with 0.7% phytoagar with or without indicated hormones or inhibitors. After 2 d of incubation at 4°C to promote germination, seedlings were grown in the dark or under light for 6 d. For hypocotyl length measurement, seedlings were photographed and their hypocotyl lengths were measured using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) (CITATION). Full-length cDNAs of IBH1 and HBI1 without stop codon were amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis cDNA and cloned into pENTRY/SD/D-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen) or pENTRY-SRDX and then recombined into destination vector pEarlygate 101 (35S:C-YFP), p1390-Myc (35S:C-Myc), pDEST15 (N-GST), pMAL2CGW (N-MBP), pCY86 (N-GAL4BD), and pGAL4ADGW (N-GAL4AD). The truncated IBH1 constructs, including IBH1∆AS (deleting amino acids 48 to 72), IBH1∆B (deleting amino acids 87 to 103), IBH1N (amino acids 1 to 86), IBH1C1 (amino acids 87 to 156), and IBH1C2 (amino acids 104 to 156), were created by site-directed mutagenesis or PCR, cloned into pENTRY/SD/D-TOPO vectors (Invitrogen), and then recombined into destination vector pGAL4ADGW (N-GAL4AD) and/or pEarlygate 101 (35S:C-YFP). The EXP1 promoter was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA and cloned into pENTRY/SD/D-TOPO vectors, then recombined into the destination vector pGREEN-GW (promoter LUC). Oligo primers used for PCR/cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The protoplast transient assays were performed following the procedure described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Plasmid DNAs were extracted using the Qiagen Plasmid Maxi Kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Aliquots of 5 × 104 isolated mesophyll protoplasts were transfected with a mixture of 20 µg of DNA using the polyethylene glycol method and incubated overnight. Protoplasts were harvested by centrifugation and lysed in 50 μL of passive lysis buffer (Promega). Firefly and Renilla (as internal standard) luciferase activities were measured using a dual-luciferase reporter kit (Promega). The gel blot containing MBP and MBP-IBH1 proteins was stained with Ponceau S for loading control or incubated with 10 µg recombinant GST-HBI1 protein, washed, and then probed with anti-GST antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, 1:3000 dilution). Mesophyll protoplasts (5 × 106 cells/reaction) prepared from the 35S:IBH1-myc transgenic plants were transfected with 20 µg of 35S:HBI1-YFP DNA using the polyethylene glycol method and incubated overnight. The protoplast cells were harvested by centrifugation and lysed in 200 μL of NEBT lysis buffer (20 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 40 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5% Triton X-100, and 1× protease inhibitors; Roche). The lysates were incubated with anti-YFP antibody and Protein A agarose beads for 1 h, and the beads were washed four times with wash buffer and then eluted by boiling in 2× SDS loading buffer for 5 min. Samples were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with anti-YFP (homemade, 1:3000 dilution; CITATION) and anti-Myc antibodies (Cell Signaling; 1:5000 dilution). The recombinant proteins MBP-HBI1, MBP-IBH1, and MBP-PRE1 were expressed and affinity purified from Escherichia coli using amylose resin (NEB). The EXP1 promoter fragments were amplified by PCR using the biotin-labeled EXP1-biotinF and the EXP1-promoterR primers (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The DNA and proteins were incubated, and then DNA binding proteins were pulled down using streptavidin-agarose beads and analyzed by immunoblotting, as described previously (CITATION). Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed as described previously (CITATION) using 35S:YFP, 35S:HBI1-YFP, 35S:HBI1-YFP/35S:IBH1-myc, and 35S:HBI1-YFP/35S:pre-amiR transgenic plants. An affinity-purified anti-YFP polyclonal antibody was used for immunoprecipitation. The chromatin immunoprecipitation products were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online), and enrichment was calculated as the ratio between the transgenic samples expressing HBI1-YFP and the 35S:YFP control sample. The ChIP experiments were performed with three biological replicates, from which the means and standard deviations were calculated. Total RNA was extracted from 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings using the Spectrum Plant Total RNA kit (Sigma-Aldrich). The first-strand cDNA was synthesized using RevertAid reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) and used as RT-PCR templates. Quantitative PCR analyses were performed on a plate-based LightCycler 480 (Roche) using a SYBR Green reagent (Bio-Rad) with gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The conditions for PCR amplification were as follows: 98°C for 10 min; 45 cycles of 98°C for 30 s; 65°C for 45 s and 72°C for 30 s; and one cycle 72°C for 10 min. PP2A was used to as an internal reference gene. The relative expression was calculated as ratio between the transgenic plant and wild type and then normalized by PP2A. Wild-type Arabidopsis, 35S:IBH1-myc, and 35S:IBH1-myc/35S:PRE1-YFP plants were grown on half-strength MS medium for 5 d under constant light. Total RNA was extracted with Spectrum Plant Total RNA kit (Sigma-Aldrich), and mRNA sequencing libraries were constructed with barcodes using the TruSeq RNA Sample Preparation Kit (Illumina). Six barcoded libraries were pooled together and sequenced by Illumina HiSeq2000. The RNA-Seq experiments were performed with two biological repeats. Total reads were mapped to the Arabidopsis genome (TAIR9; www.Arabidopsis.org) using TopHat software (CITATION). Read counts for every gene were generated using HTSeq with union mode. Differential expressed genes between samples were defined by DESeq using two separate models (CITATION), based on fold change>1.5 and false discovery rate–adjusted P value < 0.05. The accession number for the RNA-Seq data in the Gene Expression Omnibus database is GSE41766. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL database under the following accession numbers: PRE1, At5g39860; PRE2, At5g15160; PRE3, At1g74500; PRE4, At3g47710; PRE5, At3g28857; PRE6, At1g26945; OsIBH1, Os04g0660100; AtIBH1, At2g43060; AIF1, At3g05800; AIF2, At3g06590; AIF3, At3g17100; AIF4, At1g09250; UPB1, At2g47270; HBI1, At2g18300; BEE1, At1g18400; BEE2, At4g36540; BEE3, At1g73830; BPE, At1g59640; CIB1, At4g34530; EXP1, At1g69530; and EXP8, At2g40610. The following materials are available in the online version of the article. Supplemental Figure 1. IBH1, UPB1, and AIFs Belong to the Same HLH Family. Supplemental Figure 2. IBH1 Interacts with Five Homologous Proteins in Yeast. Supplemental Figure 3. Yeast Two-Hybrid Assays Showed That IBH1 Interacts with PRE1 through Its HLH Domain. Supplemental Figure 4. Quantitative RT-PCR Analyses of the Expression of HBI1 and Its Homologous Genes in Wild-Type and HBI1 Cosuppression Plants. Supplemental Figure 5. HBI1 and Its Homologs Contain Conserved Basic Domain to Bind DNA. Supplemental Figure 6. The Gene Structure Diagram of EXP1 Showing Promoter Regions Analyzed for HBI1 Binding. Supplemental Table 1. Quantitative RT-PCR Validation of the RNA-Seq Data. Supplemental Table 2. Oligo Sequences. Supplemental Data Set 1. PRE1 and IBH1 Antagonistically Regulate Gene Expression.
