!~ABS~! To gain insights into the molecular details of photosystem I (PSI) biogenesis, we characterized the PsbP-domain protein1 (ppd1) mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana that specifically lacks PSI activity. Deletion of PPD1 results in an inability of the mutant to grow photoautotrophically and a specific loss of the stable PSI complex. Unaltered transcription and translation of plastid-encoded PSI genes indicate that PPD1 acts at the posttranslational level. In vivo protein labeling experiments reveal that the rate of synthesis of PSI reaction center proteins PsaA/B in ppd1 is comparable to that of wild-type plants, whereas the rate of turnover of PsaA/B proteins is higher in ppd1 than in wild-type plants. With increasing leaf age, PPD1 content decreases considerably, while PSI content remains constant. PPD1 is a nuclear-encoded thylakoid lumenal protein and is associated with PSI but is not an integral subunit of PSI. Biochemical and molecular analyses reveal that PPD1 interacts directly and specifically with PsaB and PsaA. Yeast two-hybrid experiments show that PPD1 interacts with some lumenal loops of PsaB and PsaA. Our results suggest that PPD1 is a PSI assembly factor that assists the proper folding and integration of PsaB and PsaA into the thylakoid membrane.
!~RES~! The PsbP is a well-characterized PSII subunit that is required for optimal oxygen-evolving activity in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Plants contain a family of PsbP-related proteins termed PsbP-like (PPL) and PPD proteins. In Arabidopsis, there are two PPL genes and seven PPD genes (CITATION). It has been reported that the PPL1 protein is involved in PSII repair process under high light conditions and that the PPL2 protein contributes to NDH complex accumulation and function (CITATION), suggesting that PsbP-related proteins may be involved in other photosynthetic processes. Recently, it has been suggested that the PPD5 protein is involved in strigolactone biosynthesis (CITATION). However, the functions of the remaining six PPD proteins are largely unknown. Thus, we initiated a project to systematically characterize the functions of the other six PPD proteins. Here, the function of the PPD1 protein is characterized. The T-DNA insertion line of At4g15510/PPD1 (ppd1-1) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Source Center (ABRC) was identified (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). When grown in soil, homozygous ppd1-1 seedlings were lethal. Cultivation on Suc-containing medium rescued mutant seedlings. However, they were still pale yellowish and growth-retarded compared with wild-type plants and were not able to flower (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). To gain insight into the primary target of PPD1 mutation, noninvasive fluorometric analyses were conducted (Figure 1A). The ratio of variable fluorescence to maximal fluorescence (Fv/Fm), which is an indicator of the maximum efficiency of PSII photochemistry, was reduced in ppd1-1 (0.55 ± 0.05 versus the wild type 0.81 ± 0.01). Photochemical quenching (qP), nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ), and the actual PSII efficiency (ΦPSII) were 0.89 ± 0.01, 0.14 ± 0.01, and 0.70 ± 0.01, respectively, in wild-type plants. However, qP, NPQ, and ΦPSII could not be measured in ppd1-1, which is a behavior typical for mutants blocked in photosynthetic electron transport downstream of PSII (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate whether and how PSI is affected in ppd1-1, the light-induced redox kinetics of PSI were examined. The mutant did not show any detectable absorbance changes of P700 at 820 nm (Figure 1B), indicating that PSI was not functional in ppd1-1. In addition, 77K fluorescence emission spectra were also characterized in ppd1-1 (Figure 1C). The maximum fluorescence emission band peaking at 733 nm in the wild type, characteristic for a functional PSI, was shifted to 725 nm in ppd1-1. As no PSI core complex was detectable but Lhca1-4 proteins were still detectable in ppd1-1 (Figure 2), this blue shift in ppd1-1 could be attributable to the free, uncoupled light-harvesting complex I (LHCI) proteins. Similar observations have been shown in several PSI-deficient Arabidopsis mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To verify the observed phenotype in the ppd1-1 mutant is specific for the knockout of PPD1, a second line with a T-DNA insertion in PPD1, ppd1-2, was obtained from the Arabidopsis thaliana T-DNA mutagenized population (GABI-Kat). The ppd1-2 line behaved like the ppd1-1 line with respect to growth and spectroscopic characterization (Figure 1; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To confirm that the PPD1 gene disruption was responsible for the mutant phenotype, complementation for the ppd1-1 line was performed with At4g15510 genomic DNA. The complemented plant showed normal wild-type behavior (Figure 1). Thus, it can be concluded that disruption of the PPD1 gene is responsible for the observed ppd1 phenotypes. Because of the nonfunctional PSI, photosynthetic electron transport is blocked; thus PSII becomes the major target of excessive light. To test this possibility, the wild type and the mutant were grown under either higher or lower light conditions and then the changes in Fv/Fm and the amount of subunits of PSII were investigated. Our data show that under higher light conditions, there was a greater decrease in Fv/Fm and the amount of subunits of PSII in the mutant, but no significant changes were observed in Fv/Fm and the amount of subunits of PSII in wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), suggesting that the decrease in Fv/Fm in the mutant may be caused by photoinhibition. Taken together, these data suggest that electron transport through PSI in ppd1 was primarily affected. We then investigated the impaired PSI function in ppd1 at the molecular level. Thus, thylakoid proteins were analyzed immunobiochemically using a set of antibodies against diagnostic subunits of four multiprotein complexes in the thylakoid membranes (i.e., PSII, Cyt b6f complex, PSI, and ATP synthase) (Figures 2A and 2B). None of the PSI subunits PsaA, PsaB, PasC, PsaD, and PsaF were detectable, and only traces, if any, of PSI subunits PsaE, PsaG, and PsaH could be detected in ppd1. This was independent of the light intensity in which the seedlings were grown (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). However, considerable PSI antenna proteins were still present in ppd1. Lhca1 and Lhca4 were slightly reduced in ppd1 compared with those in the wild type. Lhca2 and Lhca3 in the mutant decreased to ∼50 and 25% of those in the wild type, respectively. The PSII subunits PsbO and light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) were largely unchanged in the mutant compared with the wild type, whereas there was a considerable decrease in the amount of other PSII subunits (D1, D2, CP43, and CP47). The diagnostic subunits of Cyt b6f complex (Cyt f) and ATP synthase (CF1β) in the mutant accumulated to similar levels compared with the wild type. To investigate the possible changes in structure of thylakoid proteins, chlorophyll-protein complexes were solubilized from thylakoid membranes using dodecyl-β-d-maltopyranoside (DM) and separated by blue native PAGE (BN-PAGE). Figure 2C shows that after the first-dimensional separation in the presence of Coomassie blue dye, six major bands were resolved, representing PSII supercomplexes (band I), monomeric PSI and dimeric PSII (band II), monomeric PSII (band III), CP43 minus PSII (band IV), trimeric LHCII (band V), and monomeric LHCII (band VI) according to our previous study (CITATION). The BN-PAGE analysis demonstrates that the amount of PSII and PSI per unit of chlorophyll was significantly lower in thylakoid membranes isolated from ppd1 than that from the wild type. Analyses of the two-dimensional (2D) SDS-urea-PAGE gels after Coomassie blue staining confirms that PSI core proteins were not detectable in ppd1, and the relative amounts of the PSII core subunits CP47, CP43, D1, and D2 were considerably reduced in ppd1, while no significant changes were observed in the amounts of Cyt b6f and ATP synthase (Figure 2D). Lack of PSI in ppd1 is accompanied by alterations in chloroplast ultrastructure (Figure 3). Only few stroma lamellae could be observed in ppd1. Moreover, the grana stacks, located in parallel bundles in the wild-type, appeared to be less organized in ppd1 probably due to the lack of connecting stroma lamellae. [[FIGURE]] There are alternative possibilities for the lack of PSI accumulation in ppd1. For example, PPD1 may be involved in the transcription of PSI genes, accumulation of stable PSI mRNAs, and/or translation of PSI subunits. Since PPD1 is localized to plastids (CITATION), only the PSI genes in the plastid genome are relevant to any possible function of PPD1 prior to PSI assembly (i.e., gene expression). The plastid genome of higher plants encodes three essential subunits of PSI: PsaA and PsaB (the two reaction center proteins of PSI encoded by the psaA/B operon and translated from a polycistronic mRNA) and PsaC (an essential iron-sulfur protein) (CITATION; CITATION). As plastid-encoded assembly factor Ycf3 is essential for PSI accumulation (CITATION), we also included the ycf3 gene in the analysis of the expression of plastid PSI genes in the ppd1 mutant. We first examined PSI transcript patterns and accumulation in the wild type and ppd1 (Figure 4A). The levels of transcripts of psaA/B, psaC, ycf3, and psbA (encoding the D1 subunit of PSII) were unchanged in ppd1, suggesting that PPD1 acts neither at the transcriptional level nor at the level of mRNA maturation or stability. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the possible involvement of PPD1 in the translation of PSI mRNAs, the association of psaA/B, psaC, ycf3, and psbA with ribosome in the wild type and ppd1 was compared by polysome-loading experiments (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Total leaf lysates were fractionated, and RNA purified from the gradient fractions was analyzed with probes specific for psaA/B psaC, ycf3, and psbA transcripts. No significant differences in the association with polysomes between the wild type and ppd1 were observed for the psaA/B, psaC, ycf3, and psbA genes, suggesting that PSI mRNA translation proceeds at comparable efficiency and that PPD1 is not a translation factor for plastid genome-encoded PSI mRNAs. To further investigate whether the lack of PSI accumulation in ppd1 is associated with either impaired protein synthesis or accelerated degradation of PSI component proteins, the synthesis of thylakoid membrane proteins was examined by in vivo pulse labeling experiments. To this end, the leaf proteins were pulse labeled with [35S]Met in the presence of cycloheximide, which inhibits the synthesis of the nuclear-encoded proteins (Figure 4B). Our results show that the rate of synthesis of PSI reaction center PsaA/B proteins remained largely unchanged in ppd1. In addition, the rates of synthesis of the PSII subunits CP43, the D1 and D2 proteins, and the α- and β-subunits of the chloroplast ATP synthase (CF1α/β) remained almost unchanged in ppd1. This indicates that accelerated degradation rather than a block in protein synthesis is responsible for the lack of PSI accumulation in ppd. The impairment in stability and/or assembly of PSI complex may result in the accelerated degradation of PSI complex, which leads to the absence of PSI reaction center polypeptides in ppd1. To investigate this possibility, pulse labeling for 20 min was followed by a chase with unlabeled cold Met in the presence of cycloheximide to monitor the turnover rates of plastid-encoded proteins (Figure 4C). Our results show that the turnover rate of PsaA/B proteins was higher in ppd1 than in the wild type. Also, the turnover rates of PSII subunits CP43, D1, and D2 were higher in ppd1 than in the wild type. These results suggest that the absence of PSI reaction center polypeptides in ppd1 is due to the impairment in stability and/or assembly of PSI complex. Recently, the relationship between PSI assembly factor Ycf4 and PSI accumulation during tobacco leaf ontogenesis was investigated, and it was found that the amount of Ycf4 decreases strongly while PSI contents remain constant with increasing leaf age (CITATION). It is thus suggested that Ycf4 is not required for PSI stability but acts an assembly factor for PSI (CITATION). Therefore, we also investigated the relationship between PPD1 and PSI accumulation during leaf ontogenesis to examine whether PPD1 is involved in stability or assembly of PSI. We compared the accumulation of PPD1 with that of the PSI reaction center subunits PsaA/B in a series of leaves harvested from 30-d-old wild-type plants. In these plants, leaf number 1 represents the oldest leaves and leaf number 6 represents the youngest leaves (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). There were no significant differences in chlorophyll contents between these young and old leaves (see Supplemental Figure 4B online), indicating that leaf chlorophyll did not begin to degrade and that senescence did not start yet in these leaves. Figure 4D shows that the accumulation of PsaA/B remained largely unchanged with increasing leaf age. However, the PPD1 protein exhibited an age-dependent decrease in protein accumulation. The accumulation of PPD1 was highest in very young leaves and continuously decreased with leaf age. Since PSI levels remain unchanged with leaf age, this in turn suggests a high stability of the PSI complex. Thus, our results suggest that PPD1 is not required for PSI stability and that PPD1 may act as an assembly factor for PSI. To determine the subcellular localization of PPD1, PPD1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion was introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts by transient transformation. The analyses of the subcellular localization of the PPD1-GFP fusion proteins by confocal laser scanning microscopy reveal that PPD1 is localized to the chloroplast (Figure 5A). To further determine the localization of PPD1 in the chloroplast, polyclonal antiserum was raised against PPD1 protein. A 20-kD protein was detected in total leaf proteins in wild-type plants, but no signal was detected in total leaf proteins prepared from the mutant (see Supplemental Figure 1F online). The immunoblot analyses of soluble and membrane fractions from Percoll-purified chloroplasts demonstrate that PPD1 is associated with the thylakoid membranes of isolated chloroplasts (Figure 5B). Protease digestion assays of intact thylakoid membranes show that PPD1 was protected from trypsin treatment, as is the oxygen-evolving lumenal PsbO protein of PSII. However, after sonication of the thylakoid membranes, PPD1 and PsbO both were sensitive to trypsin digestion (Figure 5C). These results indicate that PPD1 is a thylakoid lumenal protein, which is in agreement with the results of previous proteomic studies (CITATION). To assess whether PPD1 is a peripheral or intrinsic thylakoid membrane protein, sonicated thylakoid membranes were incubated with chaotropic salts or alkaline known to release the peripheral proteins from thylakoid membranes. A considerable amount of PPD1 was released from thylakoid membranes by treatment with 1 M NaCl or 1 M CaCl2 and effectively removed by 0.2 M Na2CO3 or 0.1 M NaOH (Figure 5D), indicating that PPD1 is peripherally associated with the thylakoid membrane. To further investigate whether PPD1 is localized in grana and/or lamellae thylakoid membrane, the fractions of grana membranes and stroma lamellae were isolated from thylakoid membranes by differential ultracentrifugation. Our results show that PPD1 was detected mainly in the stroma lamellae–enriched fraction (Figure 5E). Taken together, our results reveal that PPD1 is a thylakoid lumenal protein but peripherally and mainly associated with stroma-exposed thylakoid membranes. [[FIGURE]] To test whether PPD1 is part of a multiprotein complex or an integral subunit of PSI, isolated thylakoid membranes were solubilized by DM and separated by Suc gradient sedimentation. Fractions of the gradient were subjected to immunoblot analysis. We observed that the PSI complex was completely missing in ppd1, but PSI antenna proteins were detected as monomers at the top of the Suc gradient (Figures 6A and 6B), indicating that PPD1 has little effect on the expression of the outer antenna but specifically fails to assemble mature PSI core complexes. Probing of gradient fractions with anti-PPD1 antiserum reveals the presence of two distinct protein complexes. While the bulk of the PPD1 protein was present in a complex peaking at ∼200 kD, a considerable fraction was associated with much larger complexes, peaking at ∼500 kD (Figure 6C). Detection of PPD1 in gradient fractions corresponding to much higher masses than free PPD1 indicate that PPD1 may not act alone but seems to be part of a larger assembly complex for PSI. Moreover, these larger complexes were found in fractions that contained the PSI reaction center (represented by PsaA/B) (Figure 6C). In addition, PPD1 was also found in the PSI preparations (Figure 6D). These results demonstrate that PPD1 is associated with PSI. [[FIGURE]] We further explored whether PPD1 is a subunit of PSI. To this purpose, the content of PPD1 was compared between the wild type and PSI deficiency mutant y3ip1 (CITATION). Our results show that the content of the PPD1 protein in y3ip1 was comparable to that in the wild type (Figure 6E), suggesting that PPD1 is independent of the accumulation of PSI complexes and not an integral part of PSI complexes. Taken together, our results indicate that PPD1 is partially associated with PSI complexes but not a subunit of the PSI complex. The above results show that PPD1 is required for the accumulation of PSI and is associated with the PSI complex. It is thus expected that it may interact with some subunits of the PSI complex. To test this possibility, coimmunoprecipitation assays were performed on DM-solubilized thylakoid membranes. Figures 7A and 7B show that the PSI complex could be precipitated by anti-PPD1 antiserum. By contrast, the proteins D2, Cyt f, and CF1β were not precipitated under such conditions. In addition, pull-down assays provided further support for such interactions between PPD1 and the PSI complex (Figure 7C). Additional evidence came from the results obtained by immunoblotting with anti-PPD1 and anti-PsaA/B antisera of 2D BN/SDS-PAGE gels, showing colocalization of PPD1 with the PSI core complex both in the wild type and y3ip1 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). [[FIGURE]] Overlay assays were performed further to explore which subunits of PSI complexes interact with PPD1. The chlorophyll-protein complexes were separated by BN-PAGE followed by 2D fractionations and then resolved proteins were blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes. The membranes were first incubated with purified His-PPD1 fusion protein and the possible proteins binding to PPD1 were subsequently detected by immunoblotting with the His tag–specific antibody. Figure 7D shows that one spot was detected to comigrate with the distinct signal of the PsaA/B proteins in the PSI complex as identified by probe of a duplicate membrane with anti-PsaA/B antibodies. As a negative control, probing the nitrocellulose membrane without addition of His-PPD1 with anti-His tag antibody did not yield any signal. This suggests that PPD1 interacts with only PsaA/B proteins of PSI complexes. To determine whether PPD1 interacts with PsaA or PsaB alone or both, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analyses were performed. Our results reveal that PPD1 interacts directly with both PsaA and PsaB, but not with PsaC, PsaF, or PsaN (the only subunit located entirely in the thylakoid lumen), and that PsbP does not interact with PsaB (Figure 8). Far protein gel blot assays also demonstrate that PPD1 interacts with both PsaA and PsaB (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Thus, our results clearly show that PPD1 interacts directly and specifically with both PsaA and PsaB. [[FIGURE]] Since our results show that PPD1 is a thylakoid lumenal protein (Figure 5), we further examined which lumenal domains of PsaA and PsaB are responsible for the direct interactions with PPD1 by yeast two-hybrid assay. The lumenal loops of PsaA were designated as A1 to A5, respectively. Similarly, the lumenal loops of PsaB were designated as B1 to B5, respectively (Figure 9A). Our results show that PPD1 interacted with three loops of PsaA corresponding to A1 (amino acids 94 to 155), A2 (amino acids 215 to 288), and A3 (amino acids 369 to 393), but not with A4 (amino acids 453 to 534) and A5 (amino acids 606 to 668). PPD1 also interacted with three loops of PsaB corresponding to loop B2 (amino acids 195 to 273), B4 (amino acids 438 to 517), and B5 (amino acids 594 to 645), but not with B1 (amino acids 66 to 135) and B3 (amino acids 349 to 378) (Figure 9B). These data demonstrate that PPD1 interacts specifically with distinct lumenal loops of PsaA and PsaB. [[FIGURE]] Since plant PsaF is a transmembrane protein with a large N-terminal lumenal domain, containing an additional 18–amino acid residue extension but not found in cyanobacteria and because this domain is close to the lumenal loops of PsaB (CITATION), we further investigated whether there is an interaction between PPD1 and the lumenal domain of PsaF by yeast two-hybrid assay. Our results show that there was no interaction between PPD1 and the lumenal domain of PsaF (see Supplemental Figure 7 online).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) T-DNA insertion line ppd1-1 (SALK_143493C) and ppd1-2 (GABI_853A11) were obtained from the ABRC and the GABI-KAT collection, respectively. The precise T-DNA insertion site was confirmed and sequenced by PCR (see Supplemental Figure 1 online; for primers used, see Supplemental Table 1 online). The homozygous mutants were maintained through heterozygous plants. The wild type and mutants (ppd1-1, ppd1-2, and y3ip1) were grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS)–supplemented medium containing 3% Suc and 0.8% agar in a growth chamber under short-day conditions (12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle) with a photon flux density of 50 µmol m−2 s−1 at 22°C. To ensure synchronized germination, the seeds were incubated in darkness for 2 d at 4°C prior to sowing. For growth on agar plates, seeds were surface sterilized and sown on MS medium. To test the effects of light intensity on the stability of thylakoid membrane proteins, the wild type and ppd1 were grown in parallel under low-light (10 µmol m−2 s−1), moderate-light (50 µmol m−2 s−1), and high-light (120 µmol m−2 s1) conditions before protein extraction. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a PAM-2000 portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Heinz Walz). After a dark adaptation for 30 min, minimum fluorescence (Fo) was determined by weak red light. Maximum fluorescence of dark-adapted state (Fm) was measured during a subsequent saturating pulse of white light (8000 μmol m−2 s−1 for 0.8 s). The leaf was then continuously illuminated with actinic light at an intensity of 50 μmol m−2 s−1 (which is equivalent of growth light intensity) for ∼5 min. The steady state fluorescence (Fs) was thereafter recorded, and a second saturating pulse of white light (8000 μmol m−2 s−1 for 0.8 s) was imposed to determine the maximum fluorescence level in the light-adapted state (Fm′). The actinic light was removed, and the minimal fluorescence level in the light-adapted state (Fo′) was determined by illuminating the leaf with a 3-s pulse of far-red light. The maximal efficiency of PSII photochemistry in the dark-adapted state and the actual PSII efficiency were calculated as Fv/Fm = (Fm − Fo)/Fm and ΦPSII = (Fm′ − Fs)/Fm′, respectively. The qP coefficient and NPQ were calculated as qP = (Fm′ − Fs)/(Fm′ − Fo′) and NPQ = (Fm/Fm′) − 1, respectively. The light-induced in vivo absorbance changes of P700 at 820 nm were measured using the PAM chlorophyll fluorometer equipped with an ED 800T emitter-detector unit (Walz), and the measurements were performed according to CITATION. Absorbance changes induced by saturating far-red light (720 nm) represent the relative amounts of photooxidizable P700. Fluorescence emission spectra of thylakoid membranes (10 μg chlorophyll mL−1) at 77K were recorded from 600 to 800 nm after excitation at 436 nm using the spectrofluorometer (Hitachi F-4500). The spectra distributions of the emission monochromator and detector (photomultiplier) were corrected by the program designed for the model F-4500 fluorescence spectrophotometer by Hitachi Company. Transmission electron microscopy was performed basically according to our previous study (CITATION). Leaves from 3-week-old plants maintained on an MS-supplemented plate were collected. Micrographs were taken using a transmission electron microscope (JEM-1230; JEOL). Chloroplasts and total thylakoid membranes and soluble proteins were isolated from 3-week-old plants according to CITATION. Intact thylakoid membranes were prepared according to our previous study (CITATION). Subfractionation of grana-enriched and stroma lamellae–enriched thylakoid was performed as described by CITATION. The isolation of PSI complexes was performed according to CITATION, and then isolated PSI complexes were fractioned by 10 to 17% gradient SDS-PAGE according to CITATION. For immunoblot analysis, total protein samples of seedling leaves were prepared as previously described (CITATION). Immunoblotting was performed according to standard techniques by probing with specific antibodies after electroblotting SDS-PAGE or Tricine-SDS-PAGE–separated proteins (CITATION) onto nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare), and signals from secondary conjugated antibodies were visualized by the enhanced chemiluminescence method. BN-PAGE was performed according to our previous study (CITATION). The PsaA, PsaB, PsaC, PsaD, PsaE, PsaF, PsaG, PsaH, and Lhca1-4 antibodies were purchased from Agrisera. All other antibodies were produced in our laboratory (CITATION). In vivo protein labeling was performed essentially as previously described by CITATION. For pulse labeling, primary leaves from 12-d-old young seedlings were preincubated in 20 µg mL−1 cycloheximide for 30 min prior to radiolabeling with 1µ Ci µ−1 [35S]Met (specific activity >1000 Ci mmol; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) in the presence of cycloheximide for 20 min at 22°C. Pulse labeling of the leaves was followed by a chase in the presence of 1 mM cold unlabeled Met. After labeling, the thylakoid membranes were isolated and the proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE before autoradiography. Total RNA was extracted from fresh leaf tissues using Trizol reagent and separated on a 1.0% (w/v) agarose-formaldehyde gel, blotted to positively charged nylon membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), and hybridized with 32P-labeled cDNA probes prepared according to our previous study (CITATION) (for primers used, see Supplemental Table 1 online). Polysomes were isolated from leaf tissues according to CITATION. RNA in each fraction was isolated, separated, and transferred onto nylon membranes, which were probed following high-stringency hybridization and washing; the blots were exposed to x-ray film for 1 to 3 d. For the production of polyclonal antibodies against PPD1, the nucleotide sequences encoding the soluble part of PPD1 (amino acids 101 to 287 corresponding to nucleotide positions 301 to 861 of the PPD1 gene) were amplified from cDNA (for primers used for the His-tag construct, see Supplemental Table 1 online). The resulting DNA fragment was cleaved with EcoRI and HindIII and fused in frame with the N-terminal His affinity tag of pET28a (Novagen), and the resulting plasmids were transformed into Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3). The fusion protein was purified on a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose resin matrix and raised in rabbit with purified antigen. For subcellular localization of GFP protein, full-length PPD1 was subcloned into the pBI121-35s-sGFP vector with the GFP at C terminus. The constructs for nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondria localization were constructed according to our previous study (CITATION). The resulting fusion constructs and the empty vector were transformed into the protoplasts of Arabidopsis. BiFC assays were performed according to CITATION. Full-length cDNAs were cloned into pUC-SPYNE and pUC-SPYCE, and plasmids were cotransformed into protoplasts (for primers used for fusion constructs, see Supplemental Table 1 online). Yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) was imaged using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 510 Meta; Zeiss). The intracellular localization of PPD1 was determined essentially according to CITATION. The protease protection assays were performed essentially as previously reported by CITATION. Intact thylakoid membranes (1 mg chlorophyll mL−1) were washed twice with 5 mM EDTA, pH 7.8, centrifuged (5 min, 10,000g, 4°C), resuspended in double-distilled sterile water, and then solubilized with 1% DM for 10 min on ice and centrifuged (5 min, 20,000g, 4°C). Aliquots of the supernatant were loaded onto a linear 0.1 to 1 M Suc gradient in 5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM NaCl, 0.06% (w/v) DM, and 25 mM MES-NaOH, pH 5.7. The gradient was centrifuged for 22 h at 160,000g at 4°C on an SW40 Ti rotor (Beckman). After centrifugation, 24 fractions were collected from the top to the bottom of the gradient. For further analysis, the proteins in each fraction were separated by SDS-PAGE and characterized by immunoblot analysis. Coimmunoprecipitation, pull-down, and protein overlay assays were performed basically according to our previous studies (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid analyses were performed using the GAL4 two-hybrid system according to the manufacturer’s instructions (TaKaRa). PPD1 coding region was cloned in frame downstream of the DNA binding domain in the bait vector pGBKT7, and the coding fragments of the candidate interaction proteins were fused in frame to prey vector pGADT7 containing DNA activation domain. The primers used for yeast two-hybrid assays are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Direct interaction of two proteins was investigated by cotransformation of the respective plasmid constructs into yeast reporter strain Y187. The positive clones were arrayed with serial dilutions on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His selection medium containing 40 μg mL−1 X-α-Gal for testing the LacZ gene activity. To complement ppd1-1, the genomic DNA was subcloned into the pCAMBIA1301 vector (Cambia) under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The resultant construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 strain and introduced into ppd1 heterozygous plants by the method of CITATION. Individual transgenic plants were selected on the basis of resistance to 50 mg L−1 hygromycin in half-strength MS medium and 0.8% agar. The resistant ones were transferred to soil and grown in the growth chamber to produce seeds. The success of complementation was confirmed by immunoblot analyses, measurements of chlorophyll fluorescence, P700 absorbance changes, chloroplast ultrastructure, immunoblot and BN-PAGE analyses, RNA gel blot analysis, in vivo pulse labeling, and polysome loading experiments. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: PPD1 (AT4G15510), ycf3 (ATCG00360), y3ip1 (AT5G44650), PsaA (ATCG00350), PsaB (ATCG00340), PsaC (ATCG01060), PsaD (AT4G02770), PsaE (AT2G20260), PsaF (AT1G31330), PsaG (AT1G55670), PsaH (AT1G52230), PsaN (AT5G64040), Lhca1 (AT3G54890), Lhca2 (AT3G61470), Lhca3 (AT1G61520), Lhca4 (AT3G47470), LHCII (AT1G29920), PsbP (AT1G06680), PsbA/D1 (ATCG00020), D2 (ATCG00270), CP43 (ATCG00280), CP47 (ATCG00680), PsbO (AT5G66570), Cyt f (ATCG00540), CF1α (ATCG00120),CF1β (ATCG00480), and RbcL (ATCG00490); PPD1 T-DNA mutants, SALK_143493C (ppd1-1) and GABI_853A11 (ppd1-2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Phenotype, Identification and Complementation of the ppd1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 2. Stability of Thylakoid Membrane Proteins in Relation to Light Intensity in the Wild Type, the ppd1-1 and ppd1-2 Mutants, and the Complemented Plant. Supplemental Figure 3. Association of psaA/B, psaC, ycf3, and psbA mRNAs with Polysomes. Supplemental Figure 4. Phenotype and Measurements of Chlorophyll Contents of Young and Old Leaves in the Wild Type. Supplemental Figure 5. Diagnostic Immunoblot Analyses of 2D BN/SDS-PAGE Gels in the Wild Type, ppd1-1, ppd1-2, and y3ip1 Mutants, and the Complemented Plant. Supplemental Figure 6. Far Protein Gel Blot Assays of the Interactions of PPD1 Protein with PsaA and PsaB Proteins. Supplemental Figure 7. Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay of the Interaction between PPD1 and the Lumenal Domain of PsaF. Supplemental Table 1. A List of Primers Used in This Study.
