!~ABS~! Anther formation and dehiscence are complex pivotal processes in reproductive development. The secondary wall thickening in endothecial cells of the anther is a known prerequisite for successful anther dehiscence. However, many gaps remain in our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms underlying anther dehiscence in planta, including a possible role for jasmonic acid (JA) and H2O2 in secondary wall thickening of endothecial cells. Here, we report that the cystathionine β-synthase domain-containing protein CBSX2 located in the chloroplast plays a critical role in thickening of the secondary cell walls of the endothecium during anther dehiscence in Arabidopsis. A T-DNA insertion mutant of CBSX2 (cbsx2) showed increased secondary wall thickening of endothecial cells and early anther dehiscence. Consistently, overexpression of CBSX2 resulted in anther indehiscence. Exogenous JA application induced secondary wall thickening and caused flower infertility in the cbsx2 mutant, whereas it partially restored fertility in the CBSX2-overexpressing lines lacking the wall thickening. CBSX2 directly modulated thioredoxin (Trx) in chloroplasts, which affected the level of H2O2 and, consequently, expression of the genes involved in secondary cell wall thickening. Our findings have revealed that CBSX2 modulates the H2O2 status, which is linked to the JA response and in turn controls secondary wall thickening of the endothecial cells in anthers for dehiscence to occur.
!~RES~! CBSX2 (At4g34120) consisted of 238 amino acids, which contained two CBS domains, from Asn88 to Ser136 and from Ser180 to Leu228. Promoter analysis revealed that as flower development progressed, CBSX2 was expressed in various tissues of the floral organs, including the anther wall, tapetum, pollen grains and abscission zone (Supplementary Fig. S1). Based on these developmental and spatial expression patterns, we focused on examining the function of CBSX2 in anther development. We first obtained a T-DNA insertion line (SALK_136934, designated cbsx2) from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, and identified a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of the CBSX2 gene (Fig. 1A). The homozygous cbsx2 mutant was verified by genomic PCR, and the CBSX2 transcript was not detected by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis (Fig. 1B), thus confirming that this mutant is a knock-out line. Sixteen T3 transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing CBSX2 under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter were generated and four independent single-copy transformants were subsequently selected for further analysis. These plants were designated CBSX2-Ox lines (Ox1-1, Ox5-8, Ox7-8 and Ox8-9) (Fig. 1C). The cbsx2 mutant and CBSX2-Ox lines were morphologically indistinguishable during the vegetative stage under normal growth conditions. Noticeably, the CBSX2-Ox lines showed much lower fertility than the wild type at the reproductive stage due to their inability to release pollen grains at the time of flowering (Fig. 1D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Dissection of the flowers of wild-type and CBSX2-Ox plants at anther developmental stages 13L to 15 (anther developmental stages were defined according to CITATION) revealed that the wild-type anthers were dehisced and that the pollen grains were released prior to the full expansion of the stigmatic papilla (Fig. 1E–G; anther stage 13L). Following pollination, the pistil grew and developed into a seed-bearing silique (Fig. 1H, I; anther stage 14) while sepals, petals and stamens became senile and ultimately fell from the elongating silique (Fig. 1J; anther stage 15). In contrast, anthers of the CBSX2-Ox lines did not dehisce and thus almost no pollen grains were released at anther developmental stage 13L (Fig. 1K–M). Pollen grains were not visible outside the anther until the initiation of floral senescence (Fig. 1N–O; anther stage 14), which caused absence of formation of seed-bearing siliques (Fig. 1P; anther stage 15). This result is a clear indication that anther development in CBSX2-Ox lines is defective to a level such that pollination is inhibited, thereby resulting in the severe reduction of fertility. The stamens of the cbsx2 mutant and CBSX2-Ox line were compared with those of the wild type by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in order to identify defects in anther morphology. Wild-type anthers were four lobed at anther stage 11 (Fig. 2A), and they dehisced and split open along the stomium at anther stage 13 (Fig. 2B). Similarly, the anthers of the cbsx2 mutant dehisced at approximately anther stage 13 (Fig. 2E), although they were rather turgid at anther stage 11 (Fig. 2D). In comparison, CBSX2-Ox anthers at anther stage 11 were dehydrated and shrunken, so that stomium regions between each pair of locules were indistinct (Fig. 2G). The anthers remained closed at flower opening (Fig. 2H; anther stage 13). However, cbsx2 (Fig. 2F) and CBSX2-Ox (Fig. 2I) showed normal pollen grain morphology with exine walls similar to those of the wild type (Fig. 2C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Anther dehiscence requires the degeneration and subsequent differentiation of anther cells, including those of the epidermis, stomium, endothecium and septum, that are derived from the L1, L2 and L3 layers during the second phase of anther development (CITATION). To determine the role of CBSX2 in anther dehiscence, we prepared flower samples in three different developmental stages and compared the anther morphology of the wild type, the cbsx2 mutant and CBSX2-Ox lines using transverse sections. For the wild type at anther stage 11, the tapetum had already degenerated, and fibrous bands had appeared in the endothecium and connective cells; these processes occurred concurrently with the initial steps of septum cell degeneration and stomium cell differentiation (Fig. 3A). For the wild type at anther stage 13, pollen grains were released from the anther as a consequence of both stomium degeneration and the force generated by secondary wall thickening in endothelial cells (Fig. 3B, C). The cell differentiation events of the cbsx2 mutant (Fig. 3E) and CBSX2-Ox (Fig. 3I) at anther stage 11, including septum cell degeneration and stomium cell differentiation, were similar to those of the wild type (Fig. 3A). However, endothecial cells in cbsx2 at anther stage 13 (Fig. 3F, G) had an irregular shape and were arranged in a rather complex pattern when compared with the simple arrangement of endothecial cells in wild-type anthers (Fig. 3B, C). However, the degeneration of the tapetum and septum cells in cbsx2 at anther stage 12 occurred normally (Supplementary Fig. S2). At anther stage 13, endothecial cells in CBSX2-Ox were barely visible in any pattern, although the stomium cell degenerated normally (Fig. 3J, K). Moreover, CBSX2-Ox anthers at stage 13 still contained bicellular pollen grains instead of tetracellular grains (Fig. 3K).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] At late anther stage 13, phloroglucinal stained the endothecial cell layer dark red in cbsx2 (Fig. 3H), less intensively in the wild type (Fig. 3D) but not at all in CBSX2-Ox (Fig. 3L). This may reflect the amount of endothecium cells differentiated during anther development or the degree of secondary wall thickening accompanying lignification in endothecial cells after determination of the cell fate. Secondary cell wall thickening in the anther endothecium provides the tensile force necessary for stomium rupture to release pollen grains (CITATION). The accumulation of lignified materials, which are the major components of secondary cell walls, was studied under the light or confocal microscope following staining with phloroglucinol (Fig. 4A–C) or ethidium bromide (Fig. 4D–I), both of which are commonly used as specific stains of lignin. Microscopic examination of phloroglucinol-stained floral clusters of the wild type, cbsx2 and CBSX2-Ox revealed the accumulation of large amounts of phloroglucinol-stained anther cells in the wild type (Fig. 4A) and cbsx2 (Fig. 4B) just before and after flowering. In wild-type anthers, a phloroglucinol-stained portion was visible in the endothecium layer in the early stages of flower development (Fig. 4A, blue arrow), subsequently spreading to the whole anther as flower development progressed; in comparison, in cbsx2 at the same stages, this portion was more enriched (Fig. 4B, blue arrow). An enlarged view of these wild-type and cbsx2 anthers, representing stages 9–10, are shown in Supplementary Fig. S3. In contrast, very little accumulation of phloroglucinol-stained tissues was observed in CBSX2-Ox anthers in all developmental stages (Fig. 4C). In a similar manner, ethidium bromide stained endothecium cells as striated and spring-like bands composed of cellulose and lignin in the wild type at anther stage 13 (Fig. 4D, E). In comparison, cbsx2 anthers were found to have more lignified secondary walls, which stained more strongly and appeared as complex and irregular spring-like bands (Fig. 4F, G), whereas little staining was observed in endothecium cells of the CBSX2-Ox anthers (Fig. 4H, I). All these results suggest that CBSX2 causes reduction in lignification of endothecium cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The secondary cell wall consists mainly of lignin, cellulose and other polysaccharides. Any defects in the deposition of these components besides lignin would affect the secondary wall thickening of anther endothecium cells. To examine if other factor(s) besides defects in lignification may have effects on secondary wall thickening in the absence and presence of CBSX2 function, we performed a transcriptome analysis of total RNAs from unopened flower buds (anther stages 1–12) of the wild type, cbsx2 and the CBSX2-Ox line using the Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip. As expected, a large number of genes associated with the regulation of secondary cell wall thickening were significantly controlled by CBSX2 expression. Examination of the expression profiles of secondary cell wall-associated transcription factor genes, such as MYB46, MYB85 and KNAT7 (CITATION), secondary cell wall formation-associated genes, such as cellulose synthases (IRX1, IRX3 and IRX5), glycosyl transferases genes (IRX7, IRX8 and IRX9) and the COBRA-like (COBL4/IRX6) gene (CITATION, CITATION), and key factors in the phenylpropanoid pathway, such as phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL4) and cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H) genes, showed that the expression of these genes was negatively correlated with CBSX2 expression, up-regulated in the cbsx2 mutant and down-regulated in the CBSX2-Ox line (Fig. 4J). The results indicated that anther indehiscence in the CBSX2-Ox lines was due to defective secondary wall thickening in the endothecial cells. Consequently, not only insufficient lignification but also variation in the expression of the genes related to the other secondary wall components could cause anther indehiscence in CBSX2-Ox. Consistently, the early dehiscence of the cbsx2 anthers correlates with the highly thickened secondary walls of endothecial cells when compared with those of the wild type, although the fertility of the cbxs2 mutant was comparable with that of the wild type under normal growth conditions. We have identified two CBS domains—from Asn88 to Ser136 and from Ser180 to Leu228—in the C-terminal region using the SMART search program (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de) (Fig. 5A), as well as an alternative splicing variant that contains a premature termination codon in the sixth exon of CBSX2. This variant lacks the middle exons (fourth exon and a part of the fifth exon) and C-terminal region, resulting in the loss of the second CBS domain (Fig. 5A, B). This truncated form of CBSX2 mRNA was designated ‘CBSX2-V(ΔC)’. The second CBS domain is known to play a regulatory role in many enzymatic reactions and/or may be involved in the regulation of the intracellular redox status (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, to confirm whether or not the biological function of CBSX2 is dependent on the presence of these two domains, we generated T3 transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing CBSX2-V(ΔC) and selected four independent lines (Fig. 5C) for further analysis. Unlike transgenic plants overexpressing the full-length CBSX2, the transgenic lines overexpressing CBSX2-V(ΔC) had normal fertility (Fig. 5D), indicating strongly that the CBSX2 transcript must be regulated by alternative splicing at the post-transcriptional level.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We constructed transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a soluble modified green fluorescent protein (smGFP) fused to the C-terminal end of CBSX2 and observed that the CBSX2:smGFP fusion protein accumulated in the chloroplast (Supplementary Fig. S1). Based on the results shown in Supplementary Fig. S1, we hypothesized that CBSX2 protein is functional in the chloroplast. Therefore, to characterize its functional role, we first identified its protein partners using yeast two-hybrid screening. Sequence analysis of the positively interacting clones revealed that CBSX2 interacts with x-type Trx (Trx-x; At1g50320), and a subsequent pull-down analysis using recombinant proteins further confirmed that the CBSX2 protein interacts with Trx-x protein in vitro (Fig. 6A, B). An in vitro enzyme assay using insulin as substrate for the purified recombinant CBSX2 and Trx-x proteins was then performed to determine whether the enzyme activity of Trx-x was altered due to its association with CBSX2. Insulin has disulfide bonds that can be reduced in a cysteine thiol–disulfide exchange reaction by Trx. CBSX2 increased the activity of Trx-x as shown in Fig. 6C.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The chloroplast is known to be one of the major organelles responsible for reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. One ROS molecule, H2O2, has been found to contribute to the structural reinforcement of plant cell walls by increasing the formation of lignin polymers (CITATION. CITATION). It is also known that Trxs act as antioxidants and electron donors to peroxiredoxins (Prxs) in order to eliminate H2O2 (CITATION). Based on these results and those from our present study, we hypothesized that CBSX2 actively regulates the formation of chloroplast proteins that function as H2O2 scavengers. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed H2O2 accumulation in the anthers of wild-type, cbsx2 and CBSX2-Ox plants by 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining, which reveals the presence of H2O2 as dark-brown precipitates. The anthers of wild-type and cbsx2 plants, but not those of the CBSX2-Ox plants, showed dark brown precipitates (Fig. 6D). The staining appeared to be darker in the anthers of cbsx2 than in the wild type, consistent with the results of the staining experiments for the lignified materials (Fig. 4). These results indicated that CBSX2 modulates H2O2 production in anthers. To ascertain the possibility that the thickening of the secondary wall is associated with JA signaling, JA was applied exogenously (0.5 or 1 mM) to bud clusters of the cbsx2 mutant and CBSX2-Ox lines. In wild-type inflorescences, JA application caused silique failure in a concentration-dependent manner, and the average number of infertile siliques per inflorescence ranged from 0.4 to 0.6 with the treatments (Fig. 7A, B). In comparison with the wild type, the average number of infertile siliques per inflorescence in the cbsx2 mutant rapidly increased upon JA application; there were an average of 0.8 and 1.5 infertile siliques following the application of 0.5 and 1 mM JA, respectively, compared with an average of 0 and 0.1 infertile siliques in the non-treated and water-treated controls, respectively (Fig. 7A, B). In contrast, in the CBSX2-Ox lines, the number of siliques per inflorescence increased with increasing concentrations of JA, with an average of 2.1 and 2.8 siliques following the application of 0.5 and 1 mM JA, respectively, but only an average of 0.4 siliques in the water-treated control (Fig. 7C, D). To clarify whether the rescued fertility of the CBSX2-Ox indehiscent anthers by the application of exogenous JA was due to the restoration of secondary cell wall thickening, we observed lignified tissues in the anthers 2 d after the 1 mM JA treatment and found that both the untreated and water-treated CBSX2-Ox anthers lacked dehiscent anthers during flowering and lignin staining in the endothecium layer (Fig. 7E, G). In contrast, partially dehiscent anthers and red-stained lignin were detected in the JA-treated CBSX2-Ox bud clusters (Fig. 7F, H).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In an attempt to determine a possible regulatory role for JA in secondary cell wall thickening, we examined the expression patterns of wall thickening-associated transcription factor genes, MYB26 (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), MYB85, MYB46 and KNAT7 (CITATION), in unopened buds treated exogenously with JA (Fig. 7I; Supplementary Fig. S4). MYB26 and MYB85 were strongly induced in JA-treated wild-type and CBSX2-Ox buds, but MYB85 expression in CBSX2-Ox buds was lower than in wild-type buds, which was consistent with the results from the quantitative RT–PCR (Fig. 4J). In contrast, MYB46 and KNAT7 were strongly down-regulated by exogenous JA application, although the levels were much lower in CBSX2-Ox than in wild-type buds. Taken together, these results reveal that JA is able to lead to, or promote, endothecial secondary cell wall thickening to ensure anther dehiscence during flowering, and indicate that MYB transcription factors, such as MYB26 and MYB85, may play a critical role(s) in the JA-induced secondary cell wall thickening in anthers.
!~MM~! The ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana used in this study was descended from the Columbia (Col-0) wild type. Seeds of the wild type and all transgenic plants were germinated on MS medium (CITATION) or Sunshine potting soil #5 (Sungro), and the plants were grown under fluorescent light at 2,500 lux, 40% relative humidity and a long-day photoperiod (16 h light/25°C; 8 h dark/22°C). The pET-32b expression vector (Novagen) was used to produce serially deleted recombinant CBSX2 proteins. The following primer combinations were used to amplify the indicated constructs: primers 1 and 4 for the full-length CBSX2 coding region; primers 1 and 5 for the ΔC; primers 2 and 4 for the ΔN1; and primers 3 and 4 for the ΔN2. The primers were designed as follows: primer 1 (5′-aca GAA TTC tAT GG GTT CAA TCT CTT TAT CCA ATT C-3′), primer 2 (5′-tgg GAA TTC gat gGG ATT TCA TGA CTC CGA GAC AGA A-3′), primer 3 (5′-agt GAA TTC tat gAC CTG GAA AAC GTT TAA CGA ACT ACA G-3′), primer 4 (5′-tat CTC GAG CCA TGT AGA GTT CTC GGT TTC CCG-3′) and primer 5 (5′-gga CTC GAG cta ACT GTC GAC ATC AGG GAA CAA GTT TG-3′). Each amplified product was digested with EcoRI and XhoI, and then subcloned into pET-32b pre-cut with the above restriction enzymes. Cloned constructs were transformed into Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus® (DE3)RIL (Agilent Technologies) and expressed. The expression of fusion proteins was induced by adding 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to cell cultures, which were grown for an additional 3 h at 37°C and then pelleted. The extracted proteins were purified using Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen) as described by the manufacturer. The amount of protein was estimated by Bradford’s method using a protein assay kit (Bio-Rad). The pGEX-4T-1 expression vector (GE Healthcare) was used to produce recombinant CBSX2–GST (glutathione S-transferase). The CBSX2 coding region was amplified with two primers, ORF-4T-S (5′-aca GAA TTC act ATG GGT TCA ATC TCT TTA TCC AAT TC-3′) and ORF-4T-As (5′-tat CTC GAG CTA TGT AGA GTT CTC GGT TTC CCG-3′), digested with EcoRI and XhoI, and then subcloned into pGEX-4T-1 pre-cut with the above restriction enzymes. This construct was transformed into E. coli BL21-CodonPlus® (DE3)RIL (Agilent Technologies) and expressed. The expression of fusion proteins was induced by adding 1 mM IPTG to cell cultures, which were grown for an additional 3 h at 37°C and then prepared for the pull-down assay. On the other hand, the pET-32b expression vector (Novagen) was used to produce recombinant His-Trx-x. The Trx-x coding region was amplified with two primers, Trx-x-ORF-S (5′- atg GGA TCC ATG GAC TCT ATC GTC TCC AGT TCG AC-3′) and Trx-x-ORF-As (5′- tta CTC GAG TTA AGC AAC AGA TAT TGA GTT CAA GAG ACC-3′), digested with BamHI and XhoI, and then subcloned into pET-32b pre-cut with the above restriction enzymes. The purified His-Trx-x protein was prepared as described above. After the GST-tagged CBSX2 proteins had been absorbed onto glutathione–Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare) in a column, purified His-Trx-x protein was applied and the column incubated at room temperature for 10 min. After the beads were washed, bound proteins were eluted with 100 µl of 10 mM glutathione. Samples of eluted proteins (15 µl) were electrophoresed on 12% SDS–polyacrylamide gels and transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane to detect His-antibody. The MATCHMAKER yeast two-hybrid system (Clontech) was used for the analysis of protein–protein interactions according to the manufacturer’s protocols. Each of the serial deletions of the coding sequences was amplified and ligated into vector pGADT7, and the coding region sequence of CBSX2 was ligated into pGBKT7. The overall procedures for the yeast two-hybrid assay using the ‘Co-transformation method’ were carried out as described by the manufacturer (Clontech). The transformed yeast cells were screened on stringent SD medium (lack of Leu, Trp and His). The T-DNA insertion line SALK_136934 was obtained from the SALK Institute via the ABRC for mutant analysis. The insertion was identified by means of genomic PCR using the following primers: LBb1 (5′-TTT TTC GCC CTT TGA CGT TGG AGT-3′), CBSX2-MS (5′-TGA AAT CCC CAA CTG TGT AAC CTC C-3′) and CBSX2-MAS (5′-CAT ATA CCA AAA ATT GAT ATG TGG CTA TG-3′). To generate CBSX2-Ox transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Col-0 ecotype), we cloned CBSX2 cDNA (717 bp) containing the full-length open reading frame into the binary plant transformation vector pCAMBIA 2300 and then transformed the construct into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 using the freeze–thaw method as described by CITATION. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated in planta transformation of Arabidopsis was performed according to the method of CITATION. Transgenic plants were screened on 1× MS medium containing 0.5% (w/v) sucrose and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin, transferred to soil and grown to maturity. Four independent T3 homozygous lines were selected for further studies. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the CBSX2:smGFP chimeric protein were generated in the same manner as the CBSX2-Ox lines. Preparations from 1-week-old plants were viewed by fluorescence microscopy [Olympus BX-51; XF116-2 and XF111-2 filter sets (Omega)]. Based on the full-length CBSX2 cDNAs available in the databases (http://www.arabidopsis.org/), 1,301 bp of the promoter region was amplified from A. thaliana (Col) genomic DNA and cloned with GUS into the vector pBI101 (Clontech). This construct was verified by sequencing and sequentially introduced into A. tumefaciens and A. thaliana (CITATION). Histochemical staining was performed in the T2 and T3 generation. For GUS histochemical staining, samples were incubated overnight with X-Gluc solution [1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronate, 10 mM Na2EDTA, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 50 mM Na-PO4 buffer, pH 7.0] at 37°C. After staining, the Chl-containing tissues were cleared in a series of ethanol (50, 70 and 100%), each for 30 min, and then observed under the microscope (OLYMPUS model BX-51). Individual flowers collected from the wild type, cbsx2 and CBSX2-Ox lines were fixed in a solution containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in a 0.05 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), rinsed four times in the same buffer and then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series as described above. Samples were critical point dried in liquid CO2 and stored in the desiccated state for future use. The samples were mounted on steel plates covered with double-sided sticky tape and then coated with gold–palladium. Prepared samples were viewed at an accelerating voltage of 30 K on a Philips 515 scanning electron microscope (Philips). Images were recorded on Polaroid type 55 films (Polaroid Corporation). Total RNA was isolated from leaves using TRIzol® reagent (Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The amount and quality of the total RNA were hecked by spectrophotometry (OD: 260/280) and by electrophoresis in a 1.2% agarose gel/formaldehyde electrophoresis system. A 5 µg aliquot of total RNA was reverse transcribed using SuperScript™ III Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen). For the RT–PCR analysis, the PCR cycling regime consisted of 26–35 cycles of 95°C for 20 s, 53°C for 20 s and 72°C for 40 s, followed by a 3 min final extension at 72°C. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed by the SYBR green method using the iCycler IQ (Bio-Rad). The eIF4a1 gene was used to normalize the differences in the amount of mRNA in each reaction. Relative amounts of transcripts were calculated by the comparative CT (threshold cycle number at the cross-point between the amplification plot and threshold) method, and values were normalized to the internal eIF4a1 control. Each RNA sample was run in triplicate and repeated in two independent sets. All primers for RNA expression analysis were synthesized from IDT and the sequences are presented in Supplementary Table S1. Arabidopsis flowers collected from the wild type, cbsx2 and CBSX2-Ox lines were fixed in a solution containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in a 0.05 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) at 4°C for 4 h. The samples were then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series (30, 50, 70, 90, 95 and 3× 100%) and embedded in the LR White™ resin system (London Resin Company). The resin-embedded flower samples were sliced into 0.5 µm sections using an ultramicrotome (LKB, model Bromma 2088) and stained with 1% toluidine blue at 42°C for 5–10 min. To examine lignin deposition, we embedded inflorescences in Paraplast Plus (Sherwood Medical) and prepared 8 µm thick cross-sections of the embedded inflorescences. After removal of the paraffin, the samples were stained with 2% (w/v) phloroglucinol in 95% ethanol for 2 min, then washed in 9 N HCl for 1 min and mounted in 5 N HCl. The tissue sections were observed by light microscopy (Olympus model BX-51). For H2O2 detection, the samples were incubated with DAB (Sigma-Aldrich) at room temperature for 2 h. Once brown spots were clearly evident, the samples were bleached by immersion in ethanol to visualize the spots. All open flowers and siliques were removed from inflorescences of 3-week-old plants. The remaining flower bud clusters were treated twice a day (morning and night) with droplets of water, 500 µM or 1 mM JA (Sigma-Aldrich), all dissolved in 0.05% aqueous Tween-20. The plants were then grown in a growth room under a long day (16/8 h, light/dark) photoperiod at 24°C for 7 d. Trx activity was determined using the insulin–disulfide reduction assay as described by CITATION. CBSX2 was used at a final concentration of 30 µM in 100 µl of 0.1 M HEPES (pH 7.0), 20 µM Trx-f, 5 mM dithiothreitol and 80 µM bovine insulin (Sigma-Aldrich). Trx activity was measured at 24°C and defined as the maximal increase rate in turbidity in 1 h at 650 nm due to insulin precipitation.
