!~ABS~! β-1,4-Galactans are abundant polysaccharides in plant cell walls, which are generally found as side chains of rhamnogalacturonan I. Rhamnogalacturonan I is a major component of pectin with a backbone of alternating rhamnose and galacturonic acid residues and side chains that include α-1,5-arabinans, β-1,4-galactans, and arabinogalactans. Many enzymes are required to synthesize pectin, but few have been identified. Pectin is most abundant in primary walls of expanding cells, but β-1,4-galactan is relatively abundant in secondary walls, especially in tension wood that forms in response to mechanical stress. We investigated enzymes in glycosyltransferase family GT92, which has three members in Arabidopsis thaliana, which we designated GALACTAN SYNTHASE1, (GALS1), GALS2 and GALS3. Loss-of-function mutants in the corresponding genes had a decreased β-1,4-galactan content, and overexpression of GALS1 resulted in plants with 50% higher β-1,4-galactan content. The plants did not have an obvious growth phenotype. Heterologously expressed and affinity-purified GALS1 could transfer Gal residues from UDP-Gal onto β-1,4-galactopentaose. GALS1 specifically formed β-1,4-galactosyl linkages and could add successive β-1,4-galactosyl residues to the acceptor. These observations confirm the identity of the GT92 enzyme as β-1,4-galactan synthase. The identification of this enzyme could provide an important tool for engineering plants with improved bioenergy properties.
!~RES~! To identify candidate enzymes for β-1,4-galactan synthase, we explored the CAZy (Carbohydrate Active enZYmes) database (www.cazy.org) (CITATION). Glycosyltransferases in CAZy are divided into 91 families, 42 of which have angiosperm members. The β-1,4-galactan synthases were expected to be found in a family of enzymes that invert the configuration of the anomeric carbon during catalysis, which limits the number of candidate families. Many glycosyltransferases from various families have already been investigated by analyzing loss-of-function mutants; however, in most cases, no clear indication of the role of the specific glycosyltransferases could be shown, and previous studies have not led to the identification of candidates for a β-1,4-galactan synthase. Recently, a new family of glycosyltransferases, GT92, was added to CAZy with the identification of novel β-1,4-galactosyltransferases in animals. The GT92 proteins are reported from pigeon (Columba livia), where they catalyze the transfer of β-1,4-linked Gal onto β-1,4-linked Gal in N-glycan structures (CITATION). However, genes encoding GT92 proteins are not found in all birds or in mammals. A GT92 protein in Caenorhabditis elegans has been shown to be a β-1,4-galactosyltransferase that adds Gal onto a core Fuc in N-linked glycans (CITATION). All plants that have had their genomes sequenced have members of GT92, but these are likely to have a different role than in animals, since β-1,4-Gal is not known from plant N-glycans. Furthermore, increased expression of GT92 genes has been observed in transcriptomic studies of tension wood, which is known to be rich in β-1,4-galactan (CITATION). We therefore decided to investigate the function of GT92 proteins in Arabidopsis, which has three members of GT92. A phylogenetic tree is shown in Supplemental Figure 1 online (see Supplemental Data Set 1 and Supplemental References 1 online). The three Arabidopsis proteins fall in two clades, but only one of the clades is represented in rice (Oryza sativa), and in the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, a single gene encodes a protein, which is about equally similar to proteins in either clade. A second GT92 protein encoded in S. moellendorffii may be more closely related to the animal β-1,4-galactosyltransferases. Two independent mutant lines with T-DNA insertions were identified for each of the three genes, and homozygous mutants were identified by PCR (Figure 1; see Supplemental Table 1 online). RT-PCR analysis showed that no transcript could be detected in five of the mutants, while one mutant with the T-DNA located in the promoter region (gals1-2) showed leaky expression (Figure 1). Based on the results shown below, the genes were designated GALACTAN SYNTHASE1 (GALS1), GALS2, and GALS3. [[FIGURE]] None of the mutants showed any obvious growth or developmental alterations compared with wild-type plants. Cell walls were prepared from rosette leaves and analyzed for monosaccharide composition. All six mutant lines showed a highly significant (analysis of variance [ANOVA] with Tukey test, P < 0.005) decrease of 14 to 25% in total cell wall Gal content, whereas the ratio between other sugars was not significantly changed (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Analysis of sugar composition in stems showed a significant 20 to 28% reduction in Gal in gals1-1 and gals3-1 (ANOVA with Tukey test, P < 0.001), whereas no significant differences were found in gals2-1 or in the other monosaccharides in gals1-1 and gals3-1 (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). Analysis of sugar composition in seeds showed a small but significant reduction in Gal in gals1 and gals2 mutant lines but not in gals3 (ANOVA with Tukey test, P < 0.02) (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). For the subsequent studies, we focused on GALS1 and the gals1-1 mutant, which had the largest reduction in Gal in leaf cell walls. The polysaccharide affected by the mutation was determined in immunodot assays using LM5, a monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes pectic β-1,4-galactan (CITATION). Indeed, when assessing its epitope recognition, the LM5 antibody showed less binding in the mutants than the wild type (Figure 2B). By contrast, LM14, a monoclonal antibody against arabinogalactan proteins (CITATION), did not show any difference in binding (Figure 2B). The reduction in pectic galactan was further investigated by immunomicroscopy of transverse sections of petioles, a tissue chosen because it is conducive to sectioning and immunomicroscopy and because GALS1 is highly expressed (Figure 3). Immunofluorescence microscopy is not quantitative, but the detection of the LM5 galactan epitope was strongly decreased in gals1-1 when compared with the wild type (Figure 2C). These data provide evidence that GALS1 is specifically involved in the biosynthesis of β-1,4-galactan. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To analyze the spatial and developmental expression of the GALS genes, we isolated RNA from different tissues and determined the transcript levels of the GALS genes by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) (Figure 3). In addition, we expressed the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under the control of the native promoters of the three genes (Figure 3). Taken together, our qRT-PCR and promoter-GUS data are substantially consistent with publicly available microarray data. The results show that while the GALS genes appeared to be almost ubiquitously expressed in Arabidopsis, the absolute expression values vary and distinct differences in the expression patterns can be found. In general, GALS1 showed an almost 10-fold higher expression than GALS2 and GALS3. GALS1 and GALS3 were highly expressed in the top of the stem, whereas GALS2 showed the highest expression in flowers and siliques (Figure 3). GUS activity was observed in leaves, stems, roots, and dry seeds for all three GALS genes (Figure 3). While GALS1pro:GUS and GALS3pro:GUS plants had GUS signals in all leaf veins, GALS2pro:GUS plants only showed staining in the midrib. GUS activity in trichomes was specifically found in GALS1pro:GUS transgenic plants. All GALS genes showed GUS activity in roots; in GALS1pro:GUS and GALS2pro:GUS plants, staining occurred in the root vasculature, while it was restricted to the root tip in GAL3pro:GUS plants. Immature GALS1pro:GUS and GALS3pro:GUS plants had GUS staining in primary leaves and roots. By contrast, GALS2pro:GUS seedlings had strong GUS activity in the hypocotyl. GALS1pro:GUS and GALS2pro:GUS, but not GAL3pro:GUS, revealed GUS expression in floral tissues and siliques. The GALS proteins are all predicted to be Type II membrane proteins with a possible targeting to the secretory pathway (CITATION). The subcellular localization of GALS1 was investigated by heterologous expression of a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion in Nicotiana benthamiana and confocal laser scanning microscopy. This analysis showed that GALS1 was targeted to Golgi vesicles, consistent with a role in pectin biosynthesis and the reported location of β-1,4-galactan synthase activity (CITATION) (Figure 4). GALS2 and GALS3 have previously been identified as putative Golgi proteins in a proteomic study of purified Golgi vesicles from Arabidopsis cell cultures (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because the animal GT92 enzymes include β-1,4-galactosyltransferases and the Arabidopsis mutants had a specific deficiency in β-1,4-galactan, we concluded that the Arabidopsis GT92 enzymes were strong candidates for β-1,4-galactan synthase. To characterize the biochemical function of GALS1, the protein was heterologously expressed in N. benthamiana as a fusion protein with N-terminal FLAG or YFP tags. Galactosyltransferase assays using microsomal proteins and endogenous acceptors showed a high incorporation of Gal from UDP-Gal into polymeric products (Figure 5A). The identity of a large proportion of the total product as β-1,4-galactan was confirmed by digestion with β-1,4-galactanase from Aspergillus niger, which released 90% of the polymeric product as Gal and a compound migrating as β-1,4-galactobiose on thin layer chromatography (TLC; Figures 6A and 6B). About 96% of the product remained soluble after treatment with KOH followed by neutralization with ammonium formate and 80% ± 1% of the soluble material was retained on a Q-Sepharose column as expected for β-1,4-galactan bound to a pectic backbone. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the galactosyltransferase activity, we chemically synthesized β-1,4-galactopentaose by stepwise coupling of monomeric building blocks (CITATION) followed by global deprotection (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). After solubilization of microsomal membranes with Triton X-100 and incubation in the presence of the acceptor and UDP-[14C]Gal, the unincorporated UDP-[14C]Gal was removed by anion exchange chromatography and the product analyzed by liquid scintillation counting. The results showed a substantial activity of transfer of Gal onto the acceptor with microsomes from plants expressing FLAG-tagged GALS1 (Figure 5B). The galactan synthase activity was very stable as seen from the essentially linear time course. The activity obtained with FLAG-GALS1 corresponds to more than 50 nmol Gal h−1 mg protein−1 with 0.34 mM UDP-Gal (Figure 5C). This specific activity is substantially higher than what has been reported for other cell wall–related glycosyltransferases after heterologous expression, even though those proteins were generally more pure (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). While the data using microsomal protein strongly indicated that GALS1 is indeed β-1,4-galactan synthase, microsomes contain many proteins, including endogenous galactan synthase. We therefore isolated the FLAG-GALS1 fusion protein by affinity purification (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). We were not able to quantify the amount of purified protein and therefore could not calculate specific activity or turnover number for the isolated protein. The isolated protein retained acceptor-dependent activity, whereas the control reactions (mock purified protein from p19-expressing microsomes) had no detectable activity (Figure 5D). To investigate if GALS1 could add more than one Gal to the acceptor molecule, we analyzed the products at high UDP-Gal/acceptor ratio by scintillation counting (Figure 5C) and TLC (Figure 6C). Standards for galactooligosaccharides larger than the β-1,4-galactopentaose acceptor were not available, but the TLC demonstrates a ladder of products, with longer incubation times and higher UDP-Gal/acceptor ratios leading to increasingly larger products (Figure 6C). Given that other oligosaccharides, including β-1,4-galactopentaose, migrate as a single band on the TLC, it seems reasonable to assume that the discrete radiolabeled bands correspond to galactohexaose, galactoheptaose, galactooctaose, and galactononaose. A calculation of the ratio of incorporated Gal per acceptor molecule confirmed that incorporation of more than one Gal was taking place (Figure 6C). Interestingly, the TLC suggests that the average product size was larger than calculated. For example, with 3 h incubation and 8 µM acceptor, the calculated incorporation was 1.7 Gal added per acceptor molecule; therefore, the predicted average product size would be 6.7 galactosyl residues if incorporation was random. However, the TLC suggested an average product size close to eight galactosyl residues. This may be due to a combination of the newly synthesized product being closer to the enzyme than the bulk acceptor molecules and to a higher acceptor efficiency of the longer oligosaccharide products than the Gal5 acceptor. We do not think the data suggest any real processivity of the enzyme. The endo-β-1,4-galactanase digestion established that Gal was added to the endogenous acceptor with β-1,4-linkages. The product with exogenous acceptor was likewise investigated with endo-β-1,4-galactanase as well as with a β-1,4-specific exo-galactosidase from Streptococcus pneumonia. The specificity of the exogalactosidase was confirmed in reactions with β-1,4-galactobiose, β-1,3-galactobiose, β-methyl-β-1,3-galactobiose, and β-1,6-galactobiose (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). When the radiolabeled product was treated with endo-β-1,4-galactanase, it was fully digested to Gal and galactobiose, and when it was treated with exo-β-1,4-galactosidase, it was fully digested to Gal. To investigate the function of GALS1 as galactan synthase in vivo, we expressed YFP-GALS1 in Arabidopsis under control of the 35S promoter. Several independent T1 lines with high expression level of the YFP-GALS1 fusion protein were selected based on immunofluorescence microscopy and immunoblotting of leaf extracts (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Cell walls from leaves of seven independent lines were then analyzed, and six had ∼50% increased Gal content compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Two lines were selected for further analysis in T2, which showed that the content of cell wall Gal was significantly increased (ANOVA, P < 0.0001) by ∼50% (Figure 7A). The increase in galactan was accompanied by a relative decrease in the other monosaccharides, but there was no change in the relative amounts of the other monosaccharides between the wild type and overexpressors (ANOVA, P > 0.2). Immunodot blots with the LM5 antibody confirmed that the Gal increase was related to an increased accumulation of β-1,4-galactan (Figure 7B). Solubilization of the cell walls with KOH and subsequent digestion with endo-β-1,4-galactanase released 21.2% ± 1.8% of total Gal in the wild type and 36.8% ± 0.3% in the overexpressors (Figure 7C). No difference in monosaccharide composition between the wild type and overexpressors could be seen in the remaining pellet (Figure 7C). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Amino acid sequences of the CAZy GT92 family were obtained from the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The evolutionary history was inferred using the neighbor-joining method. The bootstrap consensus tree inferred from 1000 replicates was taken to represent the evolutionary history of the taxa analyzed. The evolutionary distances were computed using the Poisson correction method and are in the units of the number of amino acid substitutions per site. All positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated from the data set. There were a total of 320 positions in the final data set. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted in MEGA5 (CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana T-DNA insertion mutants in At2g33570 (gals1-1, Salk_016687; gals1-2, WiscDsLox443D3), At5g44670 (gals2-1, Salk_121802; gals2-2, GK-290D05), and At4g20170 (gals3-1, WiscDsLox377-380G11; gals3-2, GK-133F03) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) were obtained from the ABRC and the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR using primer sequences obtained with the T-DNA Primer Design Tool provided by the Salk Institute Genomics Analysis Laboratory (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html) (see Supplemental Table 1 online). To confirm homozygous plants at the transcript level, RNA was extracted, reverse transcribed, and analyzed by PCR using primers covering the full-length sequence for the respective gene (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Plants were germinated and grown on soil (PRO-MIX; Premier Horticulture) at 22°C and 60% relative humidity. Except as indicated, the plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h photoperiod, 120 μmol m−2 s−1 of fluorescent light). A full-length cDNA clone for GALS1 was obtained from the ABRC. Destination clones for plant transformation were made by LR reaction according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen) with the vectors pEarleyGate 202 and 104 (CITATION) for the N-terminal FLAG and YFP tag, respectively. The resulting 35Spro:YFP-GALS1 and 35Spro:FLAG-GALS1 constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101 and C58-1 pGV3850 and used for transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana according to CITATION or for stable transformation of Arabidopsis Columbia-0 (Col-0) plants by floral dip (CITATION). Arabidopsis transformants were identified by BASTA selection, and lines with a high level of YFP-GALS1 protein were further selected by visual inspection of fluorescence and by immunoblotting using an anti–green fluorescent protein antibody. Infiltration of 4-week-old N. benthamiana leaves was done using Agrobacterium strain C58-1 pGV3850 by coinfiltration with a strain carrying the tomato bushy stunt virus p19 gene (OD600 = 0.5), following the method described by CITATION. Plants transiently expressing the YFP-GALS1 fusion protein were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy 2 d after the infiltration. The microscopy was performed using a Zeiss LSM 710 device equipped with an argon laser (514 nm for YFP excitation) and an In Tune laser (536 nm for propidium iodide excitation; Zeiss). Emission was collected at 510 to 545 nm (YFP) and 610 to 650 nm (propidium iodide). A construct for expressing α-mannosidase-mCherry was used as Golgi marker (CITATION). Sequences upstream of the translation start codon from GALS1, GALS2, and GALS3 were amplified by PCR from genomic DNA. The primer sequences, restriction sites, and the length of the putative promoter region are summarized in Supplemental Table 3 online. The DNA fragments were cloned into pBI101.3 upstream of the GUS reporter gene (CITATION). After Agrobacterium-mediated transfection of plants, histochemical staining of positive transformants was assessed with the indigogenic substrate X-Gluc (Gold Biotechnology) in GUS incubation solution (50 mM phosphate buffer, 10 mM EDTA, 330 mg/L K3FeCN6, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 0.1% [v/v] Tween 20) for several hours overnight at 37°C. For expression analysis by qRT-PCR, RNA was isolated from various tissues and used to generate cDNA. Real-time PCR was done with ABsolute SYBR Green ROX Mix (ABgene) on a StepOnePlus Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems) according to conditions described earlier (CITATION) using StepOne 2.0 software (Applied Biosystems). Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 4 online. Alcohol-insoluble residue (AIR) was prepared as described (CITATION). The lyophilized AIR was hydrolyzed in 2 M trifluoroacetic acid at 120°C for 1 h and analyzed by high-performance anion exchange chromatography (HPAEC) as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Glc was not determined due to the presence of residual starch. Statistical analysis of the data was done by three-way ANOVA using monosaccharide as repeated measurement and Tukey’s test for contrasts. This was done with the XLSTAT 212.6.02 software (Addinsoft). Cell wall preparations from overexpressors were further analyzed by digestion with endo-β-1,4-galactanase from Aspergillus niger (Megazyme). AIR (2 mg) was dissolved in 0.1 mL of 1 M KOH and adjusted to pH 4.7 with 2 mL of 100 mM acetic acid. Galactanase (two units, one unit releases 1 µmol Gal per min from potato [Solanum tuberosum] galactan at 40°C) was added and the samples incubated for 1 h at 40°C. After incubation, cold 95% ethanol with 10 mM EDTA was added to a final concentration of 70% and the sample centrifuged at 14,000g for 5 min at 4°C. The supernatant and pellet were separated, dried, hydrolyzed with trifluoroacetic acid, and analyzed by HPAEC as described above. AIR was treated with phenol:acetic acid:water 2:1:1 (v/v/v) to remove soluble proteins according to CITATION. Subsequently, 3 mg of cell wall preparation was homogenized by ball milling and extracted with 4 M KOH containing 0.1% NaBH4 as described (CITATION). Dilutions of the extracts were spotted onto nitrocellulose and allowed to dry overnight. Immunodot assays were performed as described (CITATION). The primary antibodies LM5 and LM14 are rat monoclonal antibodies (from PlantProbes) and were used at 10-fold dilution in PBS with 5% milk powder (MP-PBS). The secondary antibody (goat anti-rat IgG coupled with horseradish peroxidase; Sigma-Aldrich) was used at 100-fold dilution in MP-PBS. Potato galactan (Megazyme) was used as positive control. Five petioles of gals1-1 and Col-0 were embedded in wax as described (CITATION). Immunolabeling was done according to CITATION. LM5 was diluted 10-fold in MP-PBS and the secondary antibody (goat anti-rat IgG coupled with fluorescein isothiocyanate; Sigma-Aldrich) 100-fold. Sections incubated without primary antibody were used to assess the autofluorescence of the samples. The pentasaccharide was synthesized using general methods for monosaccharide protection and coupling (CITATION) and deprotected essentially as described (CITATION). The fully protected pentasaccharide (200 mg; 0.10 mmol) was dissolved in methanol (6 mL) and tetrahydrofuran (2 mL), and five drops of freshly prepared 1 M NaOMe in methanol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature until full conversion was observed by TLC (72 h). The reaction was quenched with Amberlite IR-120 (H+), filtered, and concentrated. The crude isolate was dissolved in methanol (6 mL), tetrahydrofuran (2 mL), and AcOH (0.5 mL). Then, 10% Pd/C (83 mg; 0.078 mmol) was added and an atmosphere of H2 (1 atmosphere) was installed by bubbling through the solution. The reaction was stirred for 2 h under H2 and then water (2 mL) was added to solubilize the more polar intermediates. The reaction was stirred until TLC indicated full conversion (48 h), filtered through celite, and concentrated. The product was purified by chromatography on C18-modified silica (95:5 water/methanol) to give a white solid. The yield was 61 mg (75%). The structure was confirmed by NMR (one-dimensional 1H, double quantum filtered correlation spectroscopy, gradient heteronuclear single quantum coherence, and gradient-selected heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation spectroscopy), acquired in D2O on a 500-MHz Varian Unity Inova operating at 25°C using residual HDO (4.77 ppm) as internal reference and by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry using 2-hydroxybenzoic acid as matrix and data acquisition in positive ion mode using a 4800 matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization–tandem time-of-flight device (Applied Biosystems). Purity was >95% based on the absence of detectable contaminants in the NMR and matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight spectra. UDP-14C-Gal (10 GBq/mmol) and UDP-3H-Gal (2 TBq/mmol) were obtained from American Radiolabeled Chemicals. Leaves of N. benthamiana transiently expressing YFP-GALS1 and FLAG-GALS1 were harvested 4 d after infiltration. Microsomes were prepared according to CITATION. Activity with endogenous acceptors was determined essentially according to CITATION in reaction mixtures containing 30 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.0, 5 mM MnCl2, 0.1 mM UDP-Gal, 740 Bq of UDP-14C-Gal or UDP-3H-Gal, and microsomes corresponding to 50 to 100 µg protein in a reaction volume of 40 µL. After incubation at 30°C, the reactions were stopped by addition of 0.5 mL of a solution of 70% ethanol, 10 mM EDTA, and 100 µg dextran, followed by centrifugation at 14,000g for 5 min at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended in 300 μL of 10 mM EDTA and polymeric material repelleted by the addition of 700 μL of 100% ethanol followed by centrifugation. This step was repeated twice. The final pellet was resuspended in 200 μL of 20 mM EDTA and subjected to liquid scintillation counting. Control reactions contained microsomes from leaves expressing only the p19 protein. Acceptor-dependent assays included 1 to 10 µg microsome protein, 40 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.5, 5 mM MnCl2, 160 mM Suc, 0.75% Triton X-100, 32 µM UDP-Gal, 740 Bq UDP-14C-Gal, and 2 µg β-1,4-galactopentaose in a reaction volume of 40 µL. In some experiments, higher concentrations of UDP-Gal and lower concentrations of acceptor were used as detailed in the figure legends. After the reaction, 0.5 mL of ice-cold water was added to the sample, which was passed over a 0.6-mL bed of Dowex 1×8 200-400 Mesh CL (Sigma-Aldrich) to capture unincorporated UDP-14C-Gal. The Dowex was washed twice with 0.5 mL of water and the eluents combined and analyzed by liquid scintillation counting. FLAG-GALS1 was purified as described (CITATION) by incubating microsomes corresponding to 0.6 mg protein with 1% Triton X-100, 50 mM PIPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 400 mM Suc, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and Complete Mini Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (1 tablet per 10 mL; Roche) for 10 min and subsequently centrifuging at 100,000g for 30 min. The supernatant was incubated with EZview Red anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma-Aldrich) for 3 h, washed three times with 1% Triton X-100, 400 mM Suc, 50 mM PIPES-KOH, pH 7.0, and 200 mM NaCl, and then three times with 400 mM Suc and 50 mM PIPES-KOH, pH 7.0. The gel with purified protein was used directly for activity assays as described above. Affinity-purified protein corresponding to 0.1 mg microsomal protein was used in each reaction and incubated for 3 h. The product generated with endogenous acceptors was analyzed by galactanase digestion. The precipitable product generated as described above was resuspended in 700 μL of 50 mM NaOAc, pH 4.5, boiled for 5 min, and incubated for 4 h at 40°C in the presence of 0.0024 and 0.06 units of endo-β-1,4-galactanase from A. niger (Megazyme). After the incubation, 700 μL of cold 70% ethanol and 10 mM EDTA was added, the sample centrifuged, and the pellet and supernatant analyzed by liquid scintillation counting. An aliquot of the digest with 60 milliunits was analyzed by TLC. The sample was lyophilized, extracted with pyridine, and applied to TLC using Silica gel 60 F254 plates (Merck) with development in 1-propanol:ethanol:water 7:1:2 (v/v/v). The TLC was analyzed by phosphorimaging using storage phosphor screens and a Typhoon 8600 Variable Mode Imager (Molecular Dynamics). Unlabeled standards (Gal, β-1,4-galactobiose and β-1,4-galactopentaose) were visualized by dipping the TLC plate in 10% sulfuric acid in ethanol and charring with a heat gun. For anion exchange chromatography of the product with endogenous acceptors, the pellet was dissolved in 200 μL 1 M KOH, heated at 70°C for 15 min, diluted and neutralized with 6 mL of 40 mM ammonium formate and 10 mM EDTA, followed by centrifugation at 14,000g for 5 min at 25°C. The pellet was resuspended and analyzed by liquid scintillation counting. Aliquots of the supernatant were loaded onto a HiTrap Q FF column (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences), the eluent was collected, and the column was washed with 2 mL of 40 mM ammonium formate and 10 mM EDTA and combined. The column was then eluted with 3 mL 0.1 HCL and 2 M NaCl. To determine the average length of the product generated with the exogenous acceptor, microsomes (5 µg protein) from plants overexpressing FLAG-GALS1 were incubated as described above in the presence of galactopentaose acceptor. UDP-14C-Gal concentration was 0.34 mM (7.4 kBq), and galactopentaose concentration was 8 to 40 µM. After incubation for 1 or 3 h, the product was purified as described above, and a small aliquot analyzed by scintillation counting to determine the amount of Gal from UDP-Gal that was incorporated into product. The products were further analyzed by TLC with development four times in n-butanol:acetic acid:water 3:2:1 (v/v/v). The TLC was analyzed by phosphorimaging, and unlabeled standards (Gal, β-1,4-galactobiose, and β-1,4-galactopentaose) were visualized by dipping the TLC plate in 10% sulfuric acid in ethanol and charring with a heat gun. To analyze the Gal linkage, products were generated using microsomes corresponding to 10 µg protein, 0.27 mM UDP-14C-Gal (14.8 kBq), and 2 µg galactopentaose acceptor and incubated for 1 h. Aliquots were lyophilized and dissolved in 50 mM NaOAc for digestion with endo-β-1,4-galactanase or in water for digestion with exo-β-1,4-galactosidase from Streptococcus pneumonia (ProZyme) using the buffer supplied with the enzyme. Digestion was done at 37°C with 0.4 units of galactanase for 2 h or 0.002 units of galactosidase for 16 h (one unit releases 1.0 µmol of p-nitrophenol from p-nitrophenol-β-galactoside per min at pH 6.0 and 37°C). After digestion, the sample was boiled for 5 min, centrifuged at 14,000g for 5 min, and subjected to TLC developed with n-propanol:ethanol:water 7:1:2 (v/v/v) and phosphorimaging as described above. The activity and specificity of the enzymes was tested in overnight incubations with 15 µg potato galactan (Megazyme), gum arabic (Sigma-Aldrich), and β-1,4-galactopentaose for the galactanase (0.4 units) and with β-1,3-galactobiose (Carbosynth), methyl-3-O-(β-d-galactopyranosyl)-β-d-galactopyranoside (Carbosynth), β-1,6-galactobiose (Carbosynth), β-1,4-galactobiose (Megazyme), and β-1,4-galactopentaose for the galactosidase (0.002 units). Incubations were done at least 10 times longer than required for complete digestion of substrates. The products were analyzed by TLC developed with n-propanol:ethanol:water 7:1:2 (v/v/v) and visualized by charring. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under accession numbers At2g33570/GALS1, At5g44670/GALS2, and At4g20170/GALS3. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Phylogenetic Tree of GT92 Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Monosaccharide Composition of Cell Walls of the Wild Type and the gals2-2 and gals3-2 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Monosaccharide Composition of Cell Walls from Wild-Type and Mutant Stems and Seeds. Supplemental Figure 4. Fully Synthetic β-1,4-Galactopentaose Acceptor. Supplemental Figure 5. Purification of GALS1. Supplemental Figure 6. Confirmation of Substrate Specificity of Galactosyl Hydrolases. Supplemental Figure 7. Immunoblot Analysis of YFP-GALS1 Overexpressors. Supplemental Figure 8. Monosaccharide Composition Analysis of T1 Generation YFP-GALS1 Overexpressors. Supplemental Table 1. Primers for Genotyping of T-DNA Mutants. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for Amplification of the Full-Length Sequence for the GALS Genes. Supplemental Table 3. Primers and Restriction Sites for Cloning of Promoters. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used for qRT-PCR Analysis. Supplemental References 1. Supplemental Data Set 1. Alignment of GT92 Proteins.
