!~ABS~! The dual-targeting ability of a variety of proteins from Physcomitrella patens, rice (Oryza sativa), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) was tested to determine when dual targeting arose and to what extent it was conserved in land plants. Overall, the targeting ability of over 80 different proteins from rice and P. patens, representing 42 dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis, was tested. We found that dual targeting arose early in land plant evolution, as it was evident in many cases with P. patens proteins that were conserved in rice and Arabidopsis. Furthermore, we found that the acquisition of dual-targeting ability is still occurring, evident in P. patens as well as rice and Arabidopsis. The loss of dual-targeting ability appears to be rare, but does occur. Ascorbate peroxidase represents such an example. After gene duplication in rice, individual genes encode proteins that are targeted to a single organelle. Although we found that dual targeting was generally conserved, the ability to detect dual-targeted proteins differed depending on the cell types used. Furthermore, it appears that small changes in the targeting signal can result in a loss (or gain) of dual-targeting ability. Overall, examination of the targeting signals within this study did not reveal any clear patterns that would predict dual-targeting ability. The acquisition of dual-targeting ability also appears to be coordinated between proteins. Mitochondrial intermembrane space import and assembly protein40, a protein involved in oxidative folding in mitochondria and peroxisomes, provides an example where acquisition of dual targeting is accompanied by the dual targeting of substrate proteins.
!~RES~! In land plants, 107 proteins have been experimentally reported to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids, or mitochondria and peroxisomes (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2; CITATION; CITATION). To determine when dual targeting arose in land plant evolution and if dual-targeting ability is conserved, we investigated whether the orthologs of some dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis were also dual targeted in P. patens and rice. As P. patens diverged from Arabidopsis approximately 450 million years ago (Fig. 1A), it represents the earliest land plant with a complete genome sequence, allowing identification of all orthologs within gene families of Arabidopsis dual-targeted proteins. It should be noted that for many dual-targeted proteins, location-specific orthologs also exist. Therefore, identification of all gene family members is required to ensure that all orthologous proteins are being identified when testing for targeting ability. We also identified the orthologs from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (CITATION) and Chlorella variabilis (CITATION) and included them in the phylogenetic analysis to obtain a more robust characterization of orthologs. The predicted protein that showed the highest level of sequence identity to the Arabidopsis dual-targeted protein was defined as the closest ortholog, and its targeting ability was tested (Supplemental Data Set S1). In addition, we tested the targeting of P. patens proteins in Arabidopsis cell suspensions, onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells, and P. patens protonemal tissues, as there have been no previous reports of targeting P. patens proteins in nonhomologous plant tissues. We also tested the mitochondrial targeting signals from alternative oxidase (AOX) and the α-subunit of the mitochondrial processing peptidase; the plastid targeting signals of the small subunit of Rubisco and PSI subunit 2; and the peroxisomal targeting signals from thiolase and malate synthase in Arabidopsis cell suspensions, onion epidermal cells, and P. patens tissue to define the fluorescence characteristics of these organelles in the various tested tissues (Fig. 1B). This demonstrated that the mitochondrial, plastid, and peroxisomal red fluorescent protein (RFP) markers previously used in Arabidopsis to define these organelles can also be used with P. patens (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] A number of orthologs to dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis were also found to be dual targeted from rice and P. patens. DNA topoisomerase represents an example of a protein that is dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids in Arabidopsis (CITATION) and was similarly found to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids from rice and P. patens (Fig. 2). Analysis of topoisomerase genes revealed that there are three in Arabidopsis, four in rice, and five in P. patens (Fig. 2A). While the targeting predictions of the proteins differed using various prediction programs (Fig. 2B), it was apparent that topoisomerases were dual targeted in all three species when tested by biolistic transformation (Fig. 2C). While dual targeting of the rice topoisomerase was readily apparent in Arabidopsis cell suspensions and onion epidermal cells, dual targeting of the P. patens topoisomerase was only apparent in onion epidermal cells and in P. patens protonemal tissues, where the mitochondria were elongated and cylinder like in shape (Fig. 2C). This elongated shape was similar to that observed with the control mitochondrial markers (Fig. 1B). Thus, while dual targeting of topoisomerases was conserved, the dual targeting of the P. patens topoisomerase was not observed in all tested cell types. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of a large number of other proteins revealed that while many were observed to be dual targeted, the ability for dual targeting differed between cell types. In the case of DNA helicase (Hel; Fig. 3), previously shown to be dual targeted in Arabidopsis (CITATION), the tested P. patens ortholog (PpHel1) and the only rice ortholog (OsHel) were also determined to be dual targeted in all tested tissues (Fig. 3). Thus, it differed from the P. patens topoisomerase that was not observed to be dual targeted in Arabidopsis cell suspensions. However, in the case of DNA polymerase (Pol; Fig. 4), while the two Arabidopsis orthologs AtPolγ1 (AtPol1) and AtPol2 and the rice ortholog OsPol1 were observed to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids (CITATION), the P. patens orthologs showed a different pattern (Fig. 4). Of the four P. patens DNA polymerase orthologs, three (PpPol2, PpPol3, and PpPol1) branched with the Arabidopsis proteins. However, PpPol1 was only targeted to plastids in all tested tissues (Fig. 4C). In contrast, while PpPol2 was predominantly targeted to mitochondria in Arabidopsis cell suspensions, plastid and mitochondrial targeting was evident in onion epidermal cells (Fig. 4C). As in Arabidopsis, mitochondrial targeting was dominant in P. patens protonemal tissues, with plastid targeting only weakly observed (Fig. 4C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In an analysis of 38 Arabidopsis proteins that were previously reported to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids, rice contained an ortholog that was dual targeted in 28 out of 38 cases [Supplemental Fig. S1; Supplemental Table S1, shaded in green and yellow; the following proteins were not dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids in rice compared with Arabidopsis: ascorbate peroxidase (APX), glutamine synthetase, cochaperone GrpE protein, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, organellar single-stranded DNA binding protein, rhodanase-like protein, 3′(2′),5′-bisphosphate nucleotidase and inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase, sulfiredoxin, thiazole biosynthetic enzyme, and AAA-type ATPase family protein], while nine out of 13 cases of rice and P. patens were dual targeted in the tested tissues [Supplemental Fig. S1; Supplemental Table S1, shaded in green; the following proteins were not dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids in rice and P. patens compared with Arabidopsis: APX, cochaperone GrpE protein, DNA ligase, and Arabidopsis 3′(2′),5′-bisphosphate nucleotidase and inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase]. The dual targeting of proteins to mitochondria and peroxisomes, or plastids and peroxisomes has also been reported, with 11 cases identified to date (Supplemental Table S2). The dual targeting of orthologs from rice and P. patens of 6-phosphogluconolactonase (dual targeted to plastids and peroxisomes; CITATION) and Ala:glyoxylate aminotransferase (dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes; CITATION) was tested to determine if dual targeting was also conserved when it involved another organelle, the peroxisomes. The tested orthologs were found to be targeted to both plastids and peroxisomes, or mitochondria and peroxisomes (Supplemental Fig. S2) in all tissues. Overall, in the analysis of four Arabidopsis proteins that were dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes, or plastids and peroxisomes, three out of four (Supplemental Table S2; the following protein was not dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes in rice compared with Arabidopsis: malonyl-CoA decarboxylase) orthologs from rice tested in Arabidopsis suspension and onion were dual targeted, and two out of three proteins from rice and P. patens were dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes or plastids and peroxisomes (Supplemental Table S2). While a variety of proteins were observed to be dual targeted, P. patens DNA polymerase hinted that targeting to one organelle may be stronger or more efficient than targeting to another (Fig. 4) and that this may be associated with gene duplication. Therefore, a detailed study was carried out to investigate the dual-targeting ability of a number of proteins that are known to be encoded by small gene families. Enzymes of the ascorbate-GR cycle were chosen, as GR, APX, and MDHAR contain orthologs that are dual targeted in Arabidopsis and are part of multigene families (Fig. 5A; CITATION). GR orthologs from rice (OsGR1) and P. patens (PpGR1) were similarly observed to be dual targeted in Arabidopsis, onion, and P. patens tissue (Fig. 5D). In the case of APX, four genes encode APX in P. patens, five in P. glauca, seven in Arabidopsis, and eight in rice (Fig. 6A). The Arabidopsis APX, designated as a plastid stromal isoform (AtSAPX), has been previously reported to be dual targeted (CITATION), and this was confirmed in the current study (Fig. 6). However, examination of P. patens APX1 revealed that it was only targeted to plastids in all three tested tissue types (Fig. 6B). Examination of the rice APX proteins OsAPX5, OsAPX6, OsAPX7, and OsAPX8, which grouped with and displayed the highest sequence identity to AtSAPX (Fig. 6, A and C), revealed that OsAPX5 and OsAPX6 were targeted to mitochondria, while OsAPX7 and OsAPX8 were targeted to plastids (Fig. 6B). To gain insight into when dual targeting of APX was gained (or lost), the targeting of the most orthologous APX from P. glauca, PgAPX1, was examined and found to be dual targeted (Fig. 6). Thus, it is proposed that the dual-targeting ability of APX arose following the split between P. patens and P. glauca, and was subsequently lost in rice following monocot divergence. In rice, gene duplication resulted in two genes, with each encoding organelle-specific proteins (Fig. 6A). The gene family of MDHAR has multiple members identified with four genes in P. patens, three in P. glauca, five in Arabidopsis, and six in rice (Fig. 7A). AtMDHAR6, previously shown to be dual targeted (CITATION), has two orthologs in P. patens, one of which showed targeting to both mitochondria and plastids. The detection of MDHAR dual-targeted orthologs in all four species, including P. glauca (Fig. 7), suggests that as with GR, dual-targeting ability arose early in land plant evolution and has been conserved. However, PpMDHAR1 and OsMDHAR1.2 are not dual targeted. This suggests that dual targeting of these isoforms may have been lost after gene duplication in these organisms, so that only a single dual-targeted isoform is conserved in each organism. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Hexokinase (HXK) proteins represent another example of the acquisition of dual-targeting ability throughout land plant evolution. While the targeting of Arabidopsis orthologs has not previously been studied, a recent study (CITATION) in P. patens identified isoforms that were dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids. Of the 11 genes encoding HXK (PpHXK1–PpHXK11) in this study (Fig. 8A), at least six isoforms are dual targeted (Fig. 9). Compared with the previous study, some differences have been observed (CITATION), in that PpHXK5 and PpHXK9 were found to be dual targeted while PpHXK8 was not (Fig. 8B). However, none of the four HXK orthologs from Arabidopsis (AtHXK1–AtHXK4), nor one HXK-like (AtHKL1), displayed dual-targeting ability, with four orthologs targeted to mitochondria and one targeted to plastids (Fig. 8C). Phylogenetic analysis of the dual-targeted HXK isoforms from P. patens reveals that five out of the six isoforms branch together (Fig. 8A). This suggests that a single gene in P. patens encoding a dual-targeted HXK underwent gene duplication, as all proteins in this group display dual-targeting ability (Fig. 8D). On the other hand, PpHKK5 also displays dual-targeting ability (Fig. 8D), most likely acquired throughout evolution, as its closest orthologs (PpHXK1 and PpHXK6; Fig. 8A) are not dual targeted (Fig. 8D). Because P. patens HXKs are more similar to each other than to HXKs in other land plants and because they have “undergone concerted evolution” (CITATION), this finding is consistent with the proposal that dual targeting arose after P. patens diverged from the lineage that gave rise to other land plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In the case of peroxisomes, Mitochondrial intermembrane space import and assembly protein40 (Mia40) represents an example of a protein that has acquired dual-targeting ability during land plant evolution. Mia40 was first identified in Arabidopsis as an ortholog to the essential yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) protein Mia40 (CITATION). However, subsequent work on the Arabidopsis Mia40 showed that it differed from the yeast protein. Firstly, the Arabidopsis Mia40 was shown to be a nonessential protein and was dual targeted to both the mitochondrial intermembrane space and the peroxisomal matrix (CITATION). It was also demonstrated that the rice Mia40 was similarly dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes (CITATION). Further analyses of the protein sequences from other plant Mia40 proteins showed that in higher plants, Mia40 contains a known peroxisomal targeting sequence (peroxisomal targeting signal type1 [PTS1]), while Mia40 from lower plant species does not contain this PTS1 sequence (Supplemental Fig. S3). Thus, the P. patens Mia40 (PpMia40) was selected for subcellular localization assay. GFP analysis of PpMia40 revealed that it did not target to either mitochondria or peroxisomes and instead appeared to reside in the cytosol, as evidenced by a diffuse GFP signal in all tested tissue types (Fig. 9C). While the lack of peroxisomal targeting is expected due to the lack of a PTS1 sequence at the C terminus, the lack of mitochondrial targeting is surprising considering that all other known Mia40 proteins have been shown to be located within mitochondria. In addition, the PpMia40 sequence was observed to contain the conserved Cys residues and is highly similar to the Arabidopsis Mia40 in the enzymatically active domain. PpMia40 is missing 28 amino acids from the N-terminal end when compared with Arabidopsis Mia40 (Supplemental Fig. S3). In an attempt to deduce the targeting ability of Mia40 over a wider range of plants, Mia40 sequences from 11 plant species, ranging from C. reinhardtii to Arabidopsis, were examined for predicted targeting ability (Supplemental Fig. S3; Fig. 10), and also the proposed substrates for Mia40, copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase1 (Ccs1), and copper zinc superoxide dismutase1 (CSD1), CSD2, and CSD3 (Fig. 10). It was observed that mitochondrial targeting of Mia40, as well as dual targeting of Mia40, arose relatively late in plant evolution (Fig. 10). It was notable that P. patens, Volvox carteri, C. variabilis, and, to a lesser extent, C. reinhardtii lacked the first 30 to 40 amino acids compared with the predicted mitochondrial targeted Mia40 from other plants (Supplemental Fig. S3). However, the peroxisomal acquisition of Mia40 is also accompanied by the peroxisomal targeting ability of Ccs1 and CSD3. Note that as previously demonstrated, Essential for respiration and vegetative growth1 can carry out the oxidative folding of proteins in mitochondria alone (CITATION). It is therefore likely that Ccs1- and CSD-like proteins can be assembled in mitochondria without a mitochondrial Mia40 in P. patens and P. glauca (Fig. 10). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The tree showing the evolutionary relationship between the six plant species used in this study was determined according to their time of divergence (in millions of years) as reported by previous studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Protein sequences of all published Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) dual-targeted proteins (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2) were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org) and orthologs identified using BLASTp (CITATION) against rice (Oryza sativa), Physcomitrella patens, and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii protein databases using Phytozome (http://www.phytozome.net). Orthologs from Picea glauca were identified using tBLASTn (CITATION) against EST sequences from the National Center for Biotechnology Information database (http://blast.icbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast.cgi). BLASTp searches for the Chlorella variabilis NC64 genome (CITATION) were done at http://genome.jgi-psf.org/ChlNC64A_1/ChlNC64A_1.home.html. Candidate proteins with a similarity percentage above 50% and containing the same functional domains were included in this study. The ortholog with the highest percentage similarity and identity to the known Arabidopsis dual-targeted protein was selected for GFP targeting (Supplemental Data Set S1, indicated in red). When the ortholog did not exhibit dual-targeting ability, the ortholog demonstrating the next-highest percentage similarity and identity was chosen. Subcellular localizations were predicted using Predotar (CITATION), TargetP (CITATION), and WoLF PSORT (CITATION). The Ambiguous Targeting Predictor was also used to predict the probability of a protein being dual targeted (CITATION). Multiple sequence alignments of protein family members were conducted using MAFFT (CITATION). Multiple Align Show (http://www.bioinformatics.org/sms/multi_align.html) was used to visualize multiple sequence alignment. MEGA 5 (CITATION) was used to construct phylogenetic trees using the statistical method of neighboring-joining with 1,000 bootstrap replications. MatGAT 2 (http://bitincka.com/ledion/matgat) was used to determine the percentage identity and similarity matrices. RNA extraction from Arabidopsis, rice, and P. patens was carried out using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. P. glauca RNA was obtained from Dr. Olivier Keech (Umeå Plant Science Center). Reverse transcription was carried out using the SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen). The translational start sites for all P. glauca genes were confirmed by 5′ RACE using CapFishing full-length complementary DNA (cDNA) premix kit (Seegene). Full-length cDNA was amplified using gene-specific primers flanked by Gateway recombination cassettes (see Supplemental Table S3) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. A number of genes (see Supplemental Table S3) were cloned directly from cDNA clones obtained from the Knowledge-based Oryza Molecular biological Encyclopedia (CITATION) or the RIKEN BioResource Center (CITATION). The targeting signals of Glycine max AOX, Pisum sativum small subunit of Rubisco, and Cucurbita spp. malate synthase were fused to RFP and used as mitochondrial, plastid, and peroxisomal markers, respectively (CITATION, CITATION). Cytochrome oxidase IV-mCherry (CITATION) was used as the mitochondrial marker in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. P. patens AOX-mCherry was generated by replacing cytochrome oxidase IV targeting signal (1–29 amino acids) with full-length P. patens AOX (1–365 amino acids) in front of mCherry fluorescence protein, and used as the mitochondrial marker in P. patens protonemal tissues. Biolistic cotransformation of the GFP and RFP fusion vectors was performed on Arabidopsis cell suspensions and onion epidermal cells, as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, 5 µg of GFP and RFP/mCherry plasmids were coprecipitated onto gold particles and bombarded onto 4-d-old Arabidopsis cell suspensions and freshly peeled onion epidermal cells, using the PDS-1000/He biolistic transformation system (Bio-Rad). For putative P. patens proteins, transformation was also performed on 7-d-old protonemal tissues. Following incubation for 12 to 24 h at 22°C (25°C for P. patens) in the dark, GFP and RFP/mCherry expression was visualized at 100× magnification using a BX61 Olympus microscope (Olympus) with excitation wavelengths of 460/480 nm (GFP) and 535/555 nm (RFP/mCherry), and emission wavelengths of 495 to 540 nm (GFP) and 570 to 625 nm (RFP/mCherry). Images were captured using Cell imaging software (Olympus), as previously described (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AtTopIA1 (At4g31210), AtGR2 (At3g54660), AtSAPX (At4g08390), AtMDHAR6 (At1g63940), AtHXK1 (At4g29130), AtHXK2 (At2g19860), AtHXK3 (At1g47840), AtHXK4 (At3g20040), and AtHKL1 (At1g50460). Accession numbers for rice and P. patens can be found in Supplemental Tables S1 and S2. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Targeting ability of orthologs of known Arabidopsis dual-targeted proteins to mitochondria and plastids. Supplemental Figure S2. Targeting ability of orthologs of known Arabidopsis dual targeted proteins to mitochondria and peroxisomes or plastids and peroxisomes. Supplemental Figure S3. Sequence alignment of orthologs of Mia40 proteins from different plant species. Supplemental Figure S4. Sequence alignment of the two isoforms of rice MDHAR1 (LOC_Os08g05570.1 and LOC_Os08g05570.2). Supplemental Figure S5. Sequence alignment of PpMDHAR1 and PpMDHAR2. Supplemental Table S1. List of all known dual-targeted proteins to mitochondria and plastids from Arabidopsis and their orthologs in other plants. Supplemental Table S2. List of all known dual-targeted proteins to mitochondria and peroxisomes, or plastids and peroxisomes, from Arabidopsis and their orthologs in other plants. Supplemental Table S3. List of primers and cDNA clones used in this study. Supplemental Data Set S1. Percentage of similarity and identity scores generated by MatGAT for protein sequences in gene families.
