!~ABS~! The biogenesis of peroxisomes is mediated by peroxins (PEXs). PEX7 is a cytosolic receptor that imports peroxisomal targeting signal type 2 (PTS2)-containing proteins. Although PEX7 is important for protein transport, the mechanisms that mediate its function are unknown. In this study, we performed proteomic analysis to identify PEX7-binding proteins using transgenic Arabidopsis expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged PEX7. Our analysis identified RabE1c, a small GTPase, as a PEX7 binding partner. In vivo analysis revealed that GTP-bound RabE1c binds to PEX7 and that a subset of RabE1c localizes to peroxisomes and interacts with PEX7 on the peroxisome membrane. Unlike endogenous PEX7, which is predominantly localized to the cytosol, GFP-PEX7 accumulates abnormally on the peroxisomal membrane and induces degradation of endogenous PEX7, concomitant with a reduction in import of PTS2-containing proteins and decreased peroxisomal β-oxidation activity. Thus, GFP-PEX7 on the peroxisomal membrane exerts a dominant negative effect. Mutation of RabE1c restored endogenous PEX7 protein expression and import of PTS2-containing proteins as well as peroxisomal β-oxidation activity. Treatment with proteasome inhibitors also restored endogenous PEX7 protein levels in GFP-PEX7-expressing seedlings. Based on these findings, we conclude that RabE1c binds PEX7 and facilitates PEX7 degradation in the presence of immobile GFP-PEX7 accumulated at the membrane. 
!~RES~! To further our understanding of the molecular mechanism that mediates PEX7 translocation, we conducted proteomic analysis to identify PEX7-binding proteins using transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-tagged PEX7 (GFP-PEX7), PTS1 (GFP-PTS1), and PEX16 (GFP-PEX16) (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The fusion of GFP to PTS1 results in localization of GFP to the peroxisomal matrix. PEX16 is an integral peroxisomal membrane protein, and GFP-PEX16 was previously shown to localize to the peroxisomal membrane (CITATION, CITATION). GFP-PTS1 and GFP-PEX16 plants were used as a reference in order to identify (and exclude) nonspecific contaminating proteins present in the GFP-PEX7 samples.  Seedlings of GFP-PEX7, GFP-PTS1, and GFP-PEX16 plants were homogenized in buffer containing DDM or digitonin and incubated with anti-GFP antibody-conjugated microbeads prior to immunoprecipitation. GFP-PEX7 was efficiently affinity-purified, as determined by its presence in the purified fraction (Fig. 1A). In parallel, the purified fraction from each sample was subjected to separation by SDS-PAGE, followed by silver staining to visualize the proteins in purified fractions (Fig. 1B). In addition to GFP-PEX7 itself, whose molecular mass is about 60 kDa, a number of protein bands were detected in the GFP-PEX7 samples. Bands that were not present in the purified fractions from GFP-PTS1 or GFP-PEX16 plants were presumed to represent proteins that purified specifically with GFP-PEX7.  [[FIGURE]] The eluted fractions were subjected to mass spectrometric analysis to identify the purified proteins. The results revealed that 230 proteins were co-immunoprecipitated with GFP-PEX7 in the presence of digitonin, and 418 proteins were co-immunoprecipitated in the presence of DDM. Then we presumed that the proteins that purified with GFP-PEX7 in both the digitonin and DDM experiments stably interact with PEX7, and we therefore selected these proteins as candidate PEX7-binding proteins. A total of 31 such proteins were identified, each with a protein score higher than 50 as calculated by the Mascot search engine. Of these proteins, 15 purified only with GFP-PEX7 and not with GFP-PTS1 or GFP-PEX16 (Fig. 1C and Table 1), indicating that those 15 proteins specifically bound to GFP-PEX7. Some of the proteins identified in this manner have been previously reported to bind to PEX7. For example, PEX5 is the PTS1 receptor and directly binds to PEX7 in plants (CITATION, CITATION). We also identified eight subunits of the T-complex, which are homologs of the components of the mouse TCP1 complex (CITATION), a cytosolic chaperonin. The T-complex binds to the WD40 repeat of PEX7 in yeast and animal cells (CITATION, CITATION).  [[TABLE]] Two small GTPases, RabE1c and RabA1e, were newly identified in our experiment (Table 1). We examined the subcellular localization of RabE1c and RabA1e by transiently expressing GFP-RabE1c and GFP-RabA1e in leek epidermal cells (Fig. 2). GFP-RabE1c was observed predominantly in the cytosol, peroxisomes, and unidentified particles (Fig. 2A). The punctate structures distinct from the peroxisomes might represent the Golgi complex, because RabE1d, another member of the RabE1 family, is localized to the Golgi complex and cytosol in Arabidopsis (CITATION). GFP-RabA1e was localized in the cytosol and to particulate structures distinct from peroxisomes (Fig. 2B). These results suggest that RabE1c interacts with PEX7 on the peroxisome.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction between PEX7 and RabE1c in vivo, we performed a BiFC assay. To this end, we constructed two chimeric genes, one encoding the N-terminal half of YFP fused to PEX7 (nYFP-PEX7) and the other encoding the C-terminal half of YFP fused to RabE1c (RabE1c-cYFP). These proteins, along with tdTomato-PTS1, a peroxisomal marker, were transiently expressed in leek epidermal cells. As shown in Fig. 3A, YFP fluorescence was observed exclusively on peroxisomes, as identified by the red fluorescent signal of tdTomato-PTS1. No signal was detected in control cells expressing RabE1c-cYFP and nYFP (Fig. 3B) or cYFP and nYFP-PEX7 (Fig. 3C). These results indicate that PEX7 and RabE1c specifically interact with each other on peroxisomes in vivo.  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether GTP binding is crucial for the interaction of RabE1c with PEX7, we generated three mutant forms of RabE1c containing amino acid substitutions: Ser-29 to Asn (RabE1c(S29N)), Gln-74 to Leu (RabE1c(Q74L)), and Asn-128 to Ile (RabE1c(N128I)). In many Rab- and Ras-like GTPases, these amino acid substitutions correspond to RabE1c mutations that alter nucleotide affinity, resulting in either a GDP-bound dominant negative form or a GTP-bound constitutively active form (CITATION). RabE1c(S29N) and RabE1c(N128I) are predicted to be the GDP-bound dominant negative forms, and RabE1c(Q74L) should produce the GTP-bound constitutively active form. Each construct was fused to cYFP and expressed in leek epidermal cells along with nYFP-PEX7. A punctate fluorescent signal was observed only in cells co-expressing RabE1c(Q74L)-cYFP and nYFP-PEX7 (Fig. 4C). The observed green punctate structures were the same as the structures identified as peroxisomes in cells expressing wild-type RabE1c-cYFP and nYFP-PEX7 (Fig. 3A). No signal was detected in cells expressing either RabE1c(S29N)-cYFP and nYFP-PEX7 (Fig. 4B) or RabE1c(N128I)-cYFP and nYFP-PEX7 (Fig. 4D). These results indicate that GTP-bound RabE1c, but not GDP-bound RabE1c, interacts with PEX7.  [[FIGURE]] PEX7 is involved in various functions related to peroxisomal protein transport. Therefore, we assessed the involvement of the PEX7-binding protein RabE1c in peroxisome function. To analyze the physiological role of RabE1c, we used an Arabidopsis rabe1c knock-out mutant. Peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation is the main pathway for the catabolism of seed-reserved lipids. This pathway also converts 2,4-DB to 2,4-D, which inhibits root elongation at an early stage of seedling growth in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, mutants with deficient peroxisomal β-oxidation are resistant to 2,4-DB but sensitive to 2,4-D (CITATION). 2,4-DB sensitivity was evaluated by monitoring the seedling growth of rabe1c knock-out plants. The root growth of rabe1c seedlings during germination was sensitive to 2,4-DB to an extent similar to that of wild-type plants (Fig. 5). Peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation is responsible for the mobilization of seed-reserved lipid into sucrose in seedlings. Therefore, mutants with deficient peroxisomal β-oxidation require exogenously applied sucrose for successful establishment of seedlings (CITATION, CITATION). The rabe1c seedlings grew without sucrose as well as wild-type seedlings did (Fig. 5). These findings indicate that peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation is not impaired in the rabe1c mutant seedlings. Next, we examined the growth of GFP-PEX7-expressing plants (Fig. 1). In addition, we crossed rabe1c with GFP-PEX7 plants to generate GFP-PEX7/rabe1c plants, and the growth of these plants was examined under the same conditions. The GFP-PEX7 seedlings were resistant to 2,4-DB and required exogenous sucrose for germination (Fig. 5, A and B), indicating that the expression of GFP-PEX7 results in reduced peroxisomal β-oxidation activity. This finding suggests that GFP-PEX7 has a negative effect on peroxisome biogenesis. However, this phenotype was rescued by the rabe1c mutation in GFP-PEX7 plants, as demonstrated by the observation that GFP-PEX7/rabe1c seedlings were 2,4-DB-sensitive and sucrose-independent to a degree similar to wild-type plants (Fig. 5, A and B). This result shows that defective peroxisomal β-oxidation in GFP-PEX7 seedlings can be restored by the loss of RabE1c function.  [[FIGURE]] Because defective peroxisomal β-oxidation is often attributed to reduced transport of peroxisomal matrix enzymes, we measured the peroxisomal import of 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase, a PTS2-containing protein that catalyzes the last step of β-oxidation. Arabidopsis PTS2-containing proteins are synthesized in the cytosol as longer precursor peptides. After entry into peroxisomes, they are processed into their mature forms via the removal of their PTS2 sequences by the peroxisomal protease DEG15 endopeptidase (CITATION). Accumulation of the 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase precursor was detected in pex7i knockdown plants, as previously reported (Fig. 6) (CITATION). This thiolase precursor was not detected in the rabe1c mutant seedlings (Fig. 6), indicating that the import of PTS2-containing proteins occurs normally in the absence of RabE1c. By contrast, a significant amount of thiolase precursor was detected in the GFP-PEX7 seedlings (Fig. 6), suggesting that the import of PTS2-containing proteins is reduced in these plants. These results were consistent with the defect in peroxisomal β-oxidation observed in the GFP-PEX7 plants (Fig. 5). By contrast, almost no thiolase precursor was detected in the GFP-PEX7/rabe1c seedlings (Fig. 6), indicating that the rabe1c mutation diminished the effect of GFP-PEX7 expression. This result was consistent with the rescue of peroxisomal β-oxidation in GFP-PEX7/rabe1c plants observed during germination (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] Because PEX7 is responsible for the import of PTS2 proteins, we measured the expression levels of PEX7 protein in wild-type and mutant plants (Fig. 6). The amount of endogenous PEX7 was the same in rabe1c and wild-type plants, but the level was reduced in GFP-PEX7 seedlings. This result indicates that expression of GFP-PEX7 protein reduces the level of endogenous PEX7, leading to reduced import of PTS2-containing proteins. However, endogenous PEX7 protein was restored to wild-type levels in the GFP-PEX7/rabe1c transgenic plants, indicating that RabE1c is involved in GFP-PEX7-induced reduction of PEX7. No significant difference in the level of GFP-PEX7 protein was observed between GFP-PEX7 and GFP-PEX7/rabe1c plants.  In Arabidopsis, PEX7 is mainly localized to the cytosol (CITATION). To determine whether the reduction in PEX7 accumulation in GFP-PEX7 plants occurs in the cytosol, homogenates prepared from 5-day-old dark-grown seedlings were separated into soluble and membrane fractions by centrifugation at 100,000 × g. These fractions were then separated by SDS-PAGE and subjected to immunoblot analysis (Fig. 7). Two peroxisomal proteins, thiolase and PEX14, were used as markers of soluble and membrane fractions, respectively (CITATION, CITATION). As expected, thiolase and PEX14 were recovered in the soluble and membrane fractions, respectively, confirming that the fractionation technique was effective (Fig. 7). In wild-type plants, the majority of PEX7 was recovered in the soluble fraction (Fig. 7). The rabe1c mutant exhibited a similar PEX7 level and accumulation pattern to that of wild-type plants (Fig. 7). In the GFP-PEX7 plants, however, the PEX7 level was significantly reduced in the soluble fraction, whereas its level in the membrane fraction remained similar to that of wild-type plants, indicating a reduction in cytosolic PEX7. The level of soluble PEX7 was restored to that of wild-type plants in the GFP-PEX7/rabe1c transgenic plant, indicating that loss of RabE1c activity increased the cytosolic proportion of PEX7 in the GFP-PEX7 plants.  [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, in contrast to endogenous PEX7, the GFP-PEX7 fusion protein was abundant in the insoluble membrane fraction in both the GFP-PEX7 and GFP-PEX7/rabe1c seedlings (Fig. 7). GFP-PEX7 protein levels were identical in these two types of seedlings in both the soluble and membrane fractions. These findings suggest that, unlike PEX7, GFP-PEX7 is stacked on the peroxisomal membrane and is not dislocated to the cytosol by its defective release from the peroxisomal membrane in GFP-PEX7 and GFP-PEX7/rabe1c plants.  PEX7 is targeted to peroxisomes and then dislocated into the cytosol in yeast and mammals (CITATION, CITATION). In yeast, membrane binding of PEX7 requires the auxiliary proteins PEX18 and PEX20 (CITATION, CITATION). These auxiliary proteins are polyubiquitinated at the last step of dislocation, a modification that destines them for degradation via the 26 S proteasome (CITATION, CITATION). However, it is not known whether PEX7 is degraded by the proteasome. To determine whether the reduction of PEX7 expression involves proteasome-mediated degradation in the GFP-PEX7 plants, we examined the effect of two proteasome inhibitors, MG132 and lactacystin. Seedlings were treated with either inhibitor for 3 h and homogenized, and PEX7 protein levels were determined by immunoblot analysis. As shown in Fig. 8, the PEX7 protein level was significantly increased in GFP-PEX7 plants after proteasome inhibitor treatment, to a level comparable with that in GFP-PEX7/rabe1c plants. Neither inhibitor had any effect on the level of PEX7 in wild-type or rabe1c mutant plants, indicating that PEX7 is degraded by the proteasome in the presence of GFP-PEX7.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia accession) wild type, rabe1c mutant, pex7i knockdown, and transgenic GFP-PTS1, GFP-PEX16, GFP-PEX7 plants were used. The pex7i knockdown and GFP-PTS1, GFP-PEX16, and GFP-PEX7 transgenic plants were described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). A rabe1c knock-out mutant (SALK_055451) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The presence of a T-DNA insertion was confirmed by PCR with a RabE1c-specific primer conjugated with attB1 at the 5′ end (5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCAATGGCTGCTCCACCTGCT-3′) and the T-DNA-specific primer SALK LBa1 (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′). The rabe1c mutant was crossed with GFP-PEX7 to generate a GFP-PEX7/rabe1c transgenic plant. These plants were grown on germination medium containing 0.8% (w/v) agar, half-strength Murashige-Skoog salts, 100 μg ml−1 myo-inositol, 1 μg ml−1 thiamine HCl, 0.5 μg ml−1 pyridoxine, 0.5 μg ml−1 nicotinic acid, 0.5 μg ml−1 MES-KOH (pH 5.7), and 2% (w/v) sucrose. In some experiments, 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB) was added, or sucrose was removed from the growth medium, as indicated. Germination was induced under continuous white light conditions at 22 °C, following incubation in the dark for 48 h at 4 °C. For treatment with proteasome inhibitors, 4-day-old dark-grown seedlings were vacuum-infiltrated for 10 min with liquid Murashige-Skoog medium containing 0.5% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and 50 μm MG132 or 5 μm lactacystin and then incubated in the dark for 3 h. Control plants were treated with liquid Murashige-Skoog medium containing 0.5% (v/v) DMSO.  Immunoprecipitation was performed using μMACS epitope tag protein isolation kits (Miltenyi Biotec). Whole seedlings of GFP-PEX7, GFP-PTS1, or GFP-PEX16 transgenic plants were grown under dark conditions for 5 days and homogenized with homogenization buffer (50 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl, and 0.25% (w/v) digitonin or 0.1% (w/v) n-dodecyl β-d-maltoside (DDM)) on ice. The homogenates were centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 30 min at 4 °C. The collected supernatants were incubated for 30 min on ice with magnetic beads conjugated to an anti-GFP antibody (Miltenyi Biotec). The mixtures were then applied to μ Columns (Miltenyi Biotec), and beads were recovered in a magnetic field. The columns were washed three times with homogenization buffer, followed by elution of the protein complexes with the provided elution buffer (Miltenyi Biotec).  In-gel digestion was performed to digest the isolated protein complex into peptides. The fractions eluted from the immunoprecipitations were subjected to SDS-PAGE. The gel was washed twice with distilled water (for LC/MS; Kanto Chemical Co. Inc.), three times with 30% (v/v) acetonitrile for 1 h, and once with 100% acetonitrile for 10 min and then dried in vacuum. The dried gel was incubated with reduction buffer (10 mm dithiothreitol and 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate) at 56 °C for 1 h and then in alkylation buffer (55 mm iodoacetamide and 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate) at 25 °C for 45 min and then washed twice with 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate. The samples were dehydrated by two 10-min incubations in dehydration buffer (50% (v/v) acetonitrile and 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate) and one 5-min incubation with 100% (v/v) acetonitrile and then digested with 0.1 mg/ml trypsin (Promega) in 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate at 37 °C for 16 h. The digested peptides were recovered with 5% (v/v) formic acid and 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and with 0.1% (v/v) acetic acid and 5% (v/v) acetonitrile, respectively. The extracted peptides were combined and filtered through a 0.45-μm filter (Millipore, Ultra free-MC 0.45-μm filter unit) by centrifugation at 15,000 × g for 3 min to remove any debris. The samples were then subjected to mass spectrometric analysis using an LTQ-Orbitrap XL-HTC-PAL system (CITATION).  To generate the GFP-RabE1c and GFP-RabA1e constructs, cDNA fragments of each gene with attB1 and attB2 attached at their 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, were amplified by RT-PCR using gene-specific primer sets (for GFP-RabE1c, 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCAATGGCTGCTCCACCTGCT-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTTTTAAGTTCCACAGCATGCAG-3′; for GFP-RabA1e, 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTTAATGGGAGCCTACAGAGCC-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCTCAACCTGAGCAACAACCA-3′) and cloned into the entry vector pDONR221 using the Gateway BP recombination method (Invitrogen). Subsequently, the vectors were transferred into the destination vector pUGW52 (kindly provided by Dr. Nakagawa, Shimane University) (CITATION) using the Gateway LR recombination method (Invitrogen).  RabE1c and PEX7 cDNAs were cloned into the pDONR221 vector and subsequently transferred into the destination vectors pGWcY and pnYGW (kindly provided by Dr. Nakagawa) (CITATION, CITATION), respectively, to generate RabE1c-cYFP and nYFP-PEX7, using the BP and LR recombination methods as described above. The expression vector ptdGW (a gift from Dr. R. Y. Tsien, University of California), harboring the tdTomato gene, was used as a marker for transformation, and the vector ptdTomato-PTS1, harboring the td-Tomato-PTS1 gene (CITATION), was used as a marker for peroxisomes.  Standard procedures for transient expression experiments were described previously (CITATION). Mixtures of the appropriate combinations of plasmids were coated on gold particles 1.0 μm in diameter and bombarded into leek epidermal cells using the PDS-1000/He biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad), resulting in coexpression of these proteins in the same cells after a 20-h incubation in the dark at room temperature. Imaging analysis of transfected cells was performed using confocal laser scanning microscopy.  The leek epidermis was observed using a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal laser scanning microscope. Lasers with wavelengths of 488, 514, and 543 nm were used for excitation of GFP, YFP, and RFP, respectively. For detection of emission, the following filters were used: 505–530 nm band pass for GFP, 520–555 nm band pass for YFP, and 560–615 nm band pass for RFP.  Total proteins were extracted from each plant by homogenization in sample buffer (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.5, 12% (v/v) glycerol, 5% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol, and 1% (w/v) SDS). Protein concentration was measured using the Bio-Rad protein assay, with bovine γ-albumin as the standard. Equal amounts of proteins as well as a standard molecular marker (prestained low range; Bio-Rad) were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a Millipore GVHP (0.22-μm) membrane. Membranes were blocked in 5% (w/v) skim milk solubilized in TBS-Tween (50 mm Tris-HCl, 0.15 m NaCl, 0.05% (w/v) Tween 20, pH 7.5) for 1 h with shaking, immunolabeled with primary (1.5:10,000 (v/v)) and secondary (5:10,000 (v/v), ECL anti-rabbit IgG, GE Healthcare) antibodies, and visualized with Chemi-Lumi One reagent (Nacalai Tesque).  For subcellular fractionation, seedlings were homogenized in a high salt buffer (150 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.5), 500 mm NaCl), followed by centrifugation at 100,000 × g for 20 min to separate the soluble and membrane fractions. Equal amounts of protein from each fraction were subjected to immunoblot analysis. 
