!~ABS~! Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been characterized as both important signaling molecules and universal stressors that mediate many developmental and physiological responses. So far, details of the transcriptional mechanism of ROS-responsive genes are largely unknown. In the study reported here, we identified seven potential ROS-responsive cis-acting elements (ROSEs) from the promoters of genes up-regulated by ROS in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We also found that the APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding factor6 (ERF6) could bind specifically to the ROSE7/GCC box. Coexpression of ERF6 enhanced luciferase activity driven by ROSE7. The deficient mutants of ERF6 showed growth retardation and higher sensitivity to photodamage. ERF6 interacted physically with mitogen-activated protein kinase6 (MPK6) and also served as a substrate of MPK6. MPK6-mediated ERF6 phosphorylation at both serine-266 and serine-269 affected the dynamic alternation of the ERF6 protein, which resulted in changes in ROS-responsive gene transcription. These data might provide new insight into the mechanisms that regulate ROS-responsive gene transcription via a complex of MPK6, ERF6, and the ROSE7/GCC box under oxidative stress or a fluctuating light environment.
!~RES~! To identify ROS-responsive elements, a bioinformatic strategy was used to search for motifs that were conserved in the promoters of ROS-responsive genes. On the basis of our microarray data and the results of other recent similar studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), ROS-responsive genes were clustered into three groups (CITATION): cluster I includes 111 genes that are highly induced by H2O2 treatment and named hih; cluster II contains 65 fluorescent mutant-, ozone-, and methyl viologen (MV)-induced genes, which are named fom; cluster III only contains six genes that are induced by 3-aminotriazole (3-AT) treatment in catalase-deficient mutant plants (Supplemental Table S1). Genes from cluster III were not used for the promoter analysis in this study in order to avoid obtaining misleading results from similar random sequences. Promoters from the hih and fom clusters were selected for analysis with the program MEME to identify potential transcription factor-binding sites. Then the present frequencies of each motif in hih and fom cluster pools were calculated against a whole-genome set by the MAST program (http://meme.nbcr.net/meme/cgi-bin/mast.cgi). Only those motifs with significantly higher enrichment in the test pool than the whole-genome set were selected as potential ROSEs (Supplemental Table S2). As a result, a total of seven ROSEs were identified in the hih and fom clusters (Fig. 1A). Table I provides detailed information about the seven ROSEs, including homologous sequences, examples of ROS-responsive genes in whose promoters they were found, et cetera. Several ROSE motifs matched known cis-acting elements, for example, the ABA-responsive element (ABRE; ROSE1), brassinosteroid-responsive element (ROSE2), W box (ROSE4), and GCC box (ROSE7). However, ROSE3, ROSE5, and ROSE6 were found to be novel putative ROS-responsive elements because they did not match any known cis-acting elements exactly. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the putative ROSEs were sufficient to regulate the transcription of ROS-responsive genes, transient expression assays were carried out using the luciferase reporter system following treatment with different ROS reagents, which included H2O2, MV, and 3-AT. For the reporter constructs, four repeats of the core ROSE sequences were cloned upstream of the minimal promoter region of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (CITATION; CITATION). The 4×ROSE reporter genes were delivered into Arabidopsis leaves by particle bombardment. Under the control of ROSE7, luciferase activity in the presence of H2O2 increased 3.2-fold relative to control luciferase activity in the absence of H2O2 (Fig. 1B). In response to MV, 3- and 2.2-fold increases in luciferase activity were observed with the reporter constructs that contained ROSE4 and ROSE6, respectively. Meanwhile, 3-AT only activated ROSE5-LUC (for firefly luciferase) transcription significantly. As mentioned above, the well-characterized GCC box cis-acting element (ROSE7) was found to be a novel putative ROS-responsive element (Table I). The application of exogenous H2O2 induced the expression of 12 genes of the AP2/EREBP family, which included ERF6 and ERF11, in Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). Members of the AP2/EREBP family are known to bind the GCC box (CITATION). The expression of ERF6 was also increased by the application of singlet oxygen (CITATION). The results of our quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis also showed that ERF6 transcription was induced strongly by 3-AT, H2O2, and MV. After treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings for 6 h with 3-AT or H2O2, a 22- or 12-fold increase in ERF6 transcription was observed, respectively, as compared with untreated seedlings (Fig. 2A). We also measured the expression of ERF6 after cold, drought, and high-light (HL; 2,000 μmol m−2 s−1) treatments. Both cold and HL stresses enhanced the expression of ERF6 significantly (Fig. 2B). On the basis of our results and previous reports (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we hypothesized that ERF6 and the GCC box are involved in the regulation of ROS-responsive gene expression. [[FIGURE]] To test this hypothesis, we first analyzed the ability of ERF6 to bind to the GCC box by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). We expressed recombinant His-tagged ERF6 protein in E. coli. Although the majority of the recombinant ERF6 was present in inclusion bodies, a small proportion of soluble ERF6 bound strongly to the ROSE7/GCC box (Fig. 2C). When the ROSE7/GCC box fragment was used as the probe, binding of ERF6 to the ROSE7/GCC box fragment was competed efficiently by unlabeled ROSE7/GCC box. The mutant GCC box, which contained two point mutations, could neither bind to ERF6 nor compete with the binding of the wild-type GCC box (Fig. 2C), which indicated that ERF6 bound specifically to the GCC box. To see whether ERF6 also binds these promoters in planta and that this binding is affected by ROS stress in vivo, we generated transgenic plants expressing 35S-FLAG-ERF6 for the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay. Western-blot analysis showed that the FLAG-ERF6 abundance was significantly increased in 14-d-old seedlings treated with HL (2,000 μmol m−2 s−1 for 2 h), ROS, or 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), whereas the amount of ERF6 protein was relatively low or undetectable under normal growth conditions (Fig. 2D). Thus, the FLAG-ERF6 transgenic plants treated for 2 h by HL were selected for further analysis. The ChIP assay was performed for the FLAG-ERF6 protein using a FLAG-specific monoclonal antibody. After immunoprecipitation of DNA/protein complexes, the DNA was recovered and analyzed by PCR. Previous reports show that significant changes of gene expression occur in response to oxidative stress, including RbohD, ZAT12, peroxidase, and GST, which are well-known oxidative signaling components (CITATION; CITATION). We attempted to identify ROSE7/GCC box in the upstream regions of these genes by performing a scan with MAST. The bioinformatics data indicated that 19 out of 37 genes contain typical ROSE7/GCC box in the promoters (Fig. 2E). The expression of several genes (PDF1.2a, At1g49450, At4g33720, At1g67810, At2g06000, and At2g15480) induced by ROS was also examined by qRT-PCR. The results show that the expression of these gene was were indeed induced by HL (Supplemental Fig. S1). Thus, primer combinations were chosen that amplify fragments of approximately 150 bp within the promoter of the ROS-responsive genes that encompass the ROSE7/GCC box. The promoters of 11 ROS-responsive genes tested were all enriched in FLAG-ERF6 seedlings (Fig. 2E). Representative qRT-PCR results of ROS-responsive genes are shown in Figure 2F. Promoters from PDF1.2a, PDF1.2b, At2g37130, and At5g18470 exhibited significant enrichments of PCR products after HL treatment, whereas the negative control from the UBIQUITIN10 (UBQ10) promoter sequence was not enriched by ChIP in the same samples. These results confirmed the in vivo binding of ERF6 to the promoters of ROS-responsive genes containing the ROSE7/GCC cis-element. To determine further whether ERF6 mediated the ROS-induced transcriptional activity of the ROSE7/GCC box motif, transient expression experiments were performed in which 4×GCC-LUC as the reporter and 35S-ERF6 as the effector (Fig. 2G) were cotransformed into Arabidopsis leaves. The data obtained indicated that the expression of the reporter construct increased significantly in the presence of ERF6 (approximately 4.2- ± 1.2-fold, P < 0.05 by Student’s t test; Fig. 2H), which suggests that ERF6 is an activator of GCC box-mediated transcription. Furthermore, when H2O2 was applied, the luciferase activity was increased 8.1-fold in the presence of ERF6 (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test; Fig. 2H) as compared with the control, which indicates that H2O2 could also activate ERF6 via an unknown, transcription-independent mechanism. To further investigate the role of the ERF6 gene in the transcription of ROS-responsive genes, we identified transfer DNA insertion mutants erf6-1 and erf6-2 from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The positions of the transfer DNA insertions for the alleles are nucleotides 840 and 47, respectively. The qRT-PCR results showed that erf6-1 (Salk_087356) is a null mutant and erf6-2 (Salk_030723) is a knockdown allele (Supplemental Fig. S2). Under our normal growth conditions in soil (see “Materials and Methods”), adult erf6 mutant plants were smaller than wild-type plants, displaying an approximately 12.3% reduction of fresh weight compared with the wild type (n = 60, P < 0.05 by Student’s t test; Fig. 3, A and B). The young leaves (indicated by arrows in Fig. 3C) turned a darker brown in erf6-1 than that in the wild type when treated with diaminobenzidine (DAB), suggesting that there is more accumulation of H2O2 in erf6 mutants. [[FIGURE]] Since we found that ERF6 accumulation was stimulated by HL and ROS in cells, it was reasonable to assume that the ERF6 gene functions in photooxidative damage. Thus, we measured the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter Fv/Fm, the maximal quantum yield of PSII, in wild-type and mutant plants exposed to HL. The treatment protocol and times at which fluorescence parameters were imaged are shown in Figure 3, D and E (see “Materials and Methods”). Before exposure to HL treatment, wild-type and erf6 plants showed no difference in adapted Fv/Fm under light inside the growth chamber (see “Materials and Methods”; Fig. 3E). However, after treatment with HL within 24, 36, and 48 h, leaves of erf6-1 had a lower Fv/Fm value than the corresponding wild-type leaves (n = 9, P < 0.05 by Student’s t test; Fig. 3E). Consistent with this finding, ROSE7-type genes lost their activation under HL treatment in erf6-1 mutants (Supplemental Fig. S1). However, some of these genes (e.g. At4g33720 and At1g67810) did not lose their differential activation under HL, which might be due to the ERF family’s redundant role (CITATION). These results suggest that the mutation of ERF6 renders mutants more sensitive to photoinhibition, possibly as a result of a decreased ability to regulate the expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes. It is well documented that application of ROS can activate MPK3 and MPK6 (CITATION; CITATION). Amino acid sequence analysis has also indicated that ERF6 contains two putative MAPK phosphorylation sites at its C terminus and a typical MAPK docking sequence (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we anticipated that ERF6 might interact with MPK6 or MPK3 in the oxidative stress response in Arabidopsis. To test this hypothesis, yeast two-hybrid experiments were performed using Arabidopsis MPK6, MPK3, and MPK4 as baits and ERF6 as prey. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Y190 cells that had been transformed with pACT2-ERF6 together with pAS2-MPK3, pAS2-MPK6, or pAS2-MPK4 were grown on synthetic dextrose medium. The combination of pACT2-ERF6 with pAS2-MPK3 or pAS2-MPK6 yielded strong β-galactosidase expression (Fig. 4A). In contrast, the control combination (i.e. pAS2-MPK4 and pACT2-ERF6) did not result in detectable β-galactosidase activity. These results show that MPK6 and MPK3 interacted physically with ERF6 in the yeast two-hybrid system (Fig. 4A). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction between MPK3/MPK6 and ERF6, we monitored the association of transiently expressed MPK3/MPK6 and ERF6 in protoplasts of Arabidopsis leaves using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC; CITATION). In our BiFC system, MPK3 and MPK6 were cloned into pSPYCE and ERF6 was cloned into pSPYNE to give constructs that encoded the fusion proteins MPK3-YCE, MPK6-YCE, and ERF6-YNE, respectively. When MPK6-YCE and ERF6-YNE were coexpressed in protoplasts of Arabidopsis leaves, fluorescence from reconstituted yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) was observed in the nucleus (Fig. 4B, a). However, coexpression of MPK3-YCE and ERF6-YNE did not result in fluorescence (Fig. 4B, b). In addition, no YFP signal was detected with the combinations of MPK3/MPK6-YCE and pSPYNE or pSPYCE and ERF6-YNE (Fig. 4B, c–e). Consistent with the localization of the interaction signal, confocal microscopy of protoplasts transformed with MPK3, MPK6, or ERF6 fused with GFP showed that all three fusion proteins were localized in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 4B, f–h). These results confirmed that ERF6 and MPK6 could interact in planta but ERF6 and MPK3 could not. The observations that the GFP fluorescence of ERF6 and MPK6 proteins was emitted from both the cytoplasm and the nucleus, and that the ERF6-MPK6 association only occurred in the nucleus, prompted us to carefully examine compartments of the protein interactions by coimmunoprecipitation. To this end, we isolated the nucleus from a 35S-ERF6 plant and investigated ERF6 and MPK6 localization and interaction in planta. Under untreated conditions, both ERF6 and MPK6 proteins could be detected in total cell extracts but not in the nucleus (Fig. 4C, input). Interestingly, after exposure of Arabidopsis seedlings to HL for 2 h, they could be detected by immunobloting from nuclear extracts (Fig. 4C, output). The coimmunoprecipitation assays also indicated that the interaction between ERF6 and MPK6 mainly occurred in the nucleus after HL treatment. As shown in Figure 4C (output), MPK6 protein could indeed be detected in the complex that contained FLAG-tagged ERF6 protein, both in the whole cell extracts and in nuclear extracts of seedlings treated with HL but not in the nucleus from control experiments. Consistent with this observation, we performed immunoprecipitation experiments in the cytoplasm or nucleus of FLAG-ERF6 transgenic plants treated with 2 mm H2O2. As expected, in total cell extracts, FLAG-ERF6 was detected in the cytoplasm and nucleus. However, FLAG-ERF6 was almost not present in the nucleus of 35S-ERF6 transgenic plants without H2O2 treatment (Supplemental Fig. S3). These results suggest that H2O2 or HL treatment triggers the shuttling of ERF6 protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus as well as increases ERF6 accumulation in the nucleus. To investigate further whether ERF6 is a substrate of MPK6, a phosphorylation assay was performed with recombinant ERF6. Unfortunately, the recombinant ERF6 protein purified from E. coli was not suitable for the phosphorylation assay, because the majority of the recombinant protein was present in inclusion bodies. Therefore, transgenic plants that expressed recombinant FLAG-tagged ERF6WT were generated. Native ERF6 protein from these transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was immunoprecipitated and used in an in vitro phosphorylation assay with MPK6. As shown in Figure 4D, activated MPK6 could phosphorylate ERF6WT. No FLAG-tagged protein was immunoprecipitated from nontransgenic plants, and no phosphorylation band was observed (Fig. 4D). These results indicate that ERF6 is a substrate of MPK6. As mentioned above, ERF6 contains two putative MAPK phosphorylation sites. These sites are located within the nuclear export signal (NES; Ser-266 and Ser-269) at the C terminus (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether both Ser residues are MPK6 phosphorylation sites, the recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged C-terminal peptides of ERF6 (amino acids 261–282; pepS266A, pepS269A, and pepS266AS269A) were generated by mutating the Ser residues to Ala by site-directed mutagenesis (Fig. 5A). MPK6 was able to phosphorylate the pepS266A (pepAS) and pepS269A (pepSA) but not the pepS266AS269A (pepAA) mutant proteins (Fig. 5B). The single mutation pepAS or pepSA showed reduced phosphorylation as compared with that of pepWT. This suggests that both Ser-266 and Ser-269 of ERF6 are independent phosphorylation sites for MPK6. [[FIGURE]] Recently, it has been reported that the MAPK cascade activates transcription factors by evoking a change in the stability of the transcription factors ERF104 and EIN3 (CITATION; CITATION). We first assayed the MPK6/MPK3 kinase activity induced by H2O2 or HL by measuring the levels of phosphorylation in wild-type plants that were exposed to 2 mm H2O2 or HL. As shown in Figure 5C, exogenous application of H2O2 or HL promoted the kinase activity of MPK6 in a time-dependent manner. In contrast to that of MPK6, the MPK3 activity was relatively weak and remained nearly unaltered by H2O2 or HL under the same experimental conditions. Importantly, in the conditional gain-of-function (dexamethasone [DEX]-inducible) MKK5DD transgenic plants, DEX treatment caused the constitutive accumulation of the activation form MKK5 and increased the activities of MPK3 and MPK6 in a time-dependent manner (Fig. 5D, top panel). Interestingly, ERF6 protein accumulated rapidly after DEX treatment, with the maximum level of accumulation occurring 3 h after the addition of DEX, and then decreased to its basal level within 9 h (Fig. 5D, top panel). MKK5DD, on the other hand, remained quite high and continued to rise. Alternatively, we determined the dynamic changes of ERF6 in MKK5DD/mpk6-3 transgenic plants. As expected, an increase in the activities of MPK6 was not observed after DEX treatment, and ERF6 accumulation was not found in the null allele of mpk6-3 (Fig. 5D, bottom panel). To confirm whether the dynamic changes of ERF6 are related to the phosphorylation of ERF6, we expressed FLAG-tagged ERF6 (35S-ERF6WT) and its mutants, 35S-ERF6AA and 35S-ERF6DD, in Arabidopsis and then analyzed the levels of ERF6 protein in the nonphosphorylated form (ERF6AA) and a phosphor-mimicking mutation of ERF6 (ERF6DD). Under HL treatment, the ERF6 protein levels were increased in both ERF6WT and ERF6AA transgenic plants. Consistent with the above observation, 35S-ERF6DD plants accumulated a much lower amount of ERF6 protein than plants that expressed 35S-ERF6WT or 35S-ERF6AA (Supplemental Fig. S4). These data imply that there might be a feedback-control mechanism to ensure that the expression of ROS-responsive genes or protein levels is tightly and transiently controlled. Next, we employed immunoprecipitation to analyze the stability of ERF6 and the MPK6-ERF6 complex. FLAG-tagged ERF6 proteins were immunoprecipitated from 35S-ERF6WT, 35S-ERF6AA, and 35S-ERF6DD transgenic plants, and the resultant protein-agarose complexes were immunoblotted with an anti-MPK6 antibody. Consistent with the above analysis (Fig. 4C), MPK6 protein could be detected in the complex that contained ERF6WT protein. Importantly, the binding affinity of MPK6 for ERF6WT was much stronger when the complexes were isolated from cells that had been treated with H2O2 as compared with untreated cells (Fig. 5E, right panel, lane 1 versus lane 2), which was probably due to the phosphorylation of ERF6 by H2O2-activated MPK6. In accordance with this observation, the binding of MPK6 to ERF6DD, which mimicked the ERF6 phosphorylated at Ser-266 and Ser-269, was found to be stronger than the binding of MPK6 to ERF6WT (Fig. 5E, right panel, lane 4 versus lane 1). However, no clear band was observed for ERF6AA, which mimicked the unphosphorylated form of ERF6 (Fig. 5E, right panel, lane 3). Amino acid sequence analysis of ERF6 indicated that the nuclear localization signal of ERF6 overlapped with the MAPK docking sequence and the Leu-rich NES overlapped with two independent phosphorylation sites of ERF6 (Fig. 5, F and G; CITATION; CITATION). Activated ERF6 (ERF6DD-GFP) was localized mainly in the nucleus (i.e. more than 78% of all observed protoplasts showing the fluorescence of ERF6DD-GFP; Fig. 5G, bottom panel). In contrast, mutation of the phosphorylation sites of ERF6 (ERF6AA-GFP) resulted in the accumulation of fluorescence in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 5G, top panel). This result was not surprising because of the regulation of the ERF6 feedback-control mechanism that results in its dynamic changes. Taken together, these results showed that MPK6 controlled both the localization and activation of ERF6 by phosphorylation. Next, we used a transient expression assay to examine whether the phosphorylation of ERF6 by MPK6 affected the transcriptional activity of target genes. As shown in Figure 6, A and B, coexpression of ERF6WT, ERF6AA, and ERF6DD with the 4×GCC-LUC reporter dramatically increased the luciferase activity produced. Expression of ERF6DD, the constitutively active form of ERF6, increased LUC expression by 2.4- and 3.2-fold as compared with ERF6WT and ERF6AA (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test), respectively. As expected, after the leaves were transformed with ERF6WT, H2O2 induced the expression of 4×GCC-LUC significantly, which resulted in a 1.9-fold increase as compared with leaves that transiently expressed ERF6WT but had not been treated with H2O2 (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test). Surprisingly, luciferase activity in the presence of H2O2 was inhibited in leaves that transiently expressed either ERF6DD or ERF6AA. It is likely that this effect was due to feedback control by the high level of ERF6DD protein present and the inability of ERF6AA to be phosphorylated by H2O2-activated MPK6, respectively. Importantly, the transcription was not enhanced by coexpression of MPK6 and the 4×GCC-LUC reporter in the absence of ERF6. In addition, coexpression of the ERF6WT and MPK6 effectors enhanced the expression of LUC by more than 2-fold in the presence of H2O2 as compared with control conditions where no effectors were present (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test). In the mpk6-3 mutant plants, ERF6WT-induced luciferase activity was dramatically inhibited by the deficiency of MPK6, even under H2O2 treatment. This suggests that the effect of ERF6 on transcription activation is dependent on MPK6. [[FIGURE]] We also used qRT-PCR to analyze the expression of some H2O2-induced genes that contain a GCC box in their promoter in wild-type, erf6-1, 35S-ERF6WT, 35S-ERF6AA, and 35S-ERF6DD transgenic plants. As shown in Figure 6C, a, expression of ERF6 was increased by 195-, 131-, and 40-fold in 35S-ERF6WT, 35S-ERF6AA, and 35S-ERF6DD plants, respectively, as compared with wild-type plants. The expression of downstream genes was also enhanced dramatically by treatment with H2O2 or overexpression of ERF6. For example, the levels of PDF1.2a and PDF1.2b transcription were greatly increased in ERF6DD transgenic plants, with increases of more than 600- and 400-fold, respectively, as compared with levels in wild-type plants. Application of H2O2 also resulted in a further increase in the transcription of both PDF1.2a and PDF1.2b in ERF6DD transgenic plants (Fig. 6C, b and c). The transcription factor WRKY33 is a ROS-induced gene that contains a GCC box in its promoter (CITATION; CITATION). When H2O2 was applied to ERF6WT lines, the expression of WRKY33 was increased 2.3-fold as compared with untreated plants (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test). In addition, the abundance of WRKY33 mRNA in ERF6DD plants was increased significantly. However, treatment with H2O2 had almost no effect on the expression of WRKY33 in 35S-ERF6AA and 35S-ERF6DD plants (Fig. 6C, e). Similar results were obtained for other genes, which included PR5 and MYB51 (Fig. 6C, d and f). However, the transcription levels of all the checked genes in erf6-1 mutants were not significantly affected, even under H2O2 treatment. To determine whether the increased expression of the ROS-responsive genes in 35S-ERF6DD plants is dependent on MPK6, we conducted qRT-PCR experiments by using MKK5DD/mpk6-3/35S-ERF6 or mpk6-3 mutant plants. Impressively, the expression of nearly all the ROS-responsive genes examined (PDF1.2a, PDF1.2b, WRKY33, PR5, and MYB51) was significantly reduced in both mpk6-3 mutant plants and MKK5DD/mpk6-3/35S-ERF6 compared with the 35S-ERF6DD transgenic plants, with or without H2O2 treatments (Fig. 6C). For example, PDF1.2a and PDF1.2b transcript abundance under 2 mm H2O2 treatment in 35S-ERF6DD transgenic plants was 28 or 14 times higher than that in MKK5DD/mpk6-3/35S-ERF6, respectively. Meanwhile, the low basal level of this gene expression in mpk6-3 did not differ much from that of erf6-1 mutant plants (Fig. 6C). We noticed that PR5, WRKY33, and MYB51 were still induced by H2O2 treatment in mpk6-3. The reason might be that other MPKs (e.g. MPK3) have been shown to be activated in the MKK5/MPK6/MPK3 module in the presence of H2O2 (CITATION; CITATION), which is involved in the regulation of the expression of these genes. These data clearly indicate that MPK6-mediated phosphorylation of ERF6 is involved in the regulation of ROS-responsive gene expression.
!~MM~! Wild-type, erf6-1, erf6-2, mpk6-3 (CITATION), and transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0) plants were grown in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod at 22°C. For treatment, 3-week-old seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog medium that contained 2% Suc and 0.8% phytogel (Sigma-Aldrich) were transferred to incubation buffer (50 mm KCl and 10 mm MES-KOH, pH 6.2) containing 2 mm H2O2, 10 μM MV, 1 mm 3-AT, or 50 μM ACC for the indicated times. For HL treatment, 4-week-old seedlings grown on soil were exposed to light at the indicated intensity. The primers used in all PCRs are listed in Supplemental Table S3. Promoter sequences were defined as 1,000-bp sequences upstream of the translation start codon and were downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/home/tair/sequence/blast_datasets/OLD/At_upstream_1000_200630310.gz). The upstream regions were analyzed with the MEME_3.5.1 program (http://meme.sdsc.edu) as follows. All of the genes from the hih and fom clusters were pooled randomly into two groups. Each group was analyzed using MEME with a fixed motif length from 6 to 30 and 30 requested motifs. Conserved motifs present in both pools were selected. Statistically significantly conserved motifs were used to create sequence logos using the Web-based application WebLogo (http://weblogo.berkeley.edu/logo.cgi). Four tandem copies of putative ROSEs were introduced into a LUC gene expression vector. The primers from the promoters of genes containing the ROSEs were used (Supplemental Table S3). To prepare effector plasmids, the coding regions of MPK6 and wild-type and mutant ERF6 were amplified and inserted into the plasmid 35S-LUC. Transient expression was analyzed in Arabidopsis leaves by particle bombardment as described previously (CITATION). In brief, the reporter plasmid (1.6 μg) and the effector plasmid (1.2 μg) were bombarded into Arabidopsis leaves in each experiment. The LUC assay was performed with the Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay System (Promega) and a TD-20/20 luminometer (Promega). To normalize values after each transfection, 0.4 mg of the plasmid pPTRL, which contained the Renilla spp. luciferase coding sequence under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was used as an internal control. Normalized LUC activity measured after transfection with the reporter plasmid alone was set arbitrarily at 1. For in vitro protein expression, the coding region of ERF6 was inserted in frame into the plasmid pET-28a. The resultant pET-ERF6 construct was introduced into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The recombinant His-tagged proteins were purified using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen), in accordance with the manufacturer’s protocol. Individual synthetic DNA oligonucleotides that corresponded to the 16-bp GCC box fragment, 5′-AGCCGCCAGCCGCCAGCCGCC-3′ and its mutant 5′-ATCCTCCATCCTCCATCCTCC-3′, were annealed with their complementary oligonucleotides. The resultant double-stranded oligonucleotides were end labeled with [γ-32P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase (Invitrogen) in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA-binding reactions were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, 0.1 μg of recombinant ERF6 protein was added to a total volume of 20 μL in a binding buffer that contained 10 mm Tris, pH 8.0, 1 mm EDTA, 100 mm NaCl, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 10% glycerol, and 10 fmol of the wild-type or mutant form of the 16-bp double-stranded oligonucleotide. After incubation for 15 min, the reaction mixture was analyzed by electrophoresis through 5% polyacrylamide gels prepared in 0.5× Tris-borate-EDTA under nondenaturing conditions. For yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays, the coding regions of MPK3, MPK6, and MPK4 were amplified by qRT-PCR using primers that contained appropriate restriction enzyme sites. The amplified fragments were inserted into the plasmid pAS2 as the baits (Clontech) for the constructs pAS-MPK3, pAS-MPK6, and pAS-MPK4. The full-length coding region of ERF6 was cloned in frame in the pACT2 vector to create the plasmid pACT2-ERF6. Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Competent cells of yeast strain Y190 were transformed simultaneously with pAS-MPK6/MPK3/MPK4 and pACT2-ERF6. Empty pAS2 and pACT2 vectors were used as negative controls. To analyze in vivo interactions, the coding regions of MPK6, MPK3, and ERF6 were inserted into the plasmids pSPYNE and pSPYCE to form pSPYCE-MPK6, pSPYCE-MPK3, and pSPYNE-ERF6, respectively. Protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis leaves were transformed with the following combinations of plasmids: (1) pSPYCE-MPK6/MPK3 and pSPYNE; (2) pSPYCE and pSPYNE-ERF6; or (3) pSPYCE-MPK6/MPK3 and pSPYNE-ERF6, as described previously (CITATION). For the GFP constructs, the coding regions of MPK6, MPK3, and ERF6 were inserted into the modified plasmid pHBT-GFP-NOS to form pMPK6-GFP, pMPK3-GFP, and pERF6-GFP, respectively. The protoplast transient expression assay was performed as described previously (CITATION). After incubation for 16 to 20 h, the fluorescence of the protoplasts was measured with an FV1000 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus). All figures show representative images from three independent experiments. The coding region of ERF6 was amplified from cDNA isolated from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 using primers that contained EcoRI and SalI sites. Mutations were introduced into the ERF6 coding sequence using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene). The wild-type and mutant ERF6 coding regions were cloned together with an N-terminal FLAG epitope into the vector pCAMBIA1205 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (CITATION). The constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 and transformed by floral infiltration into wild-type Arabidopsis. ERF6 proteins in the transgenic plants were detected by immunoblotting with the monoclonal anti-FLAG M2 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). To obtain the native ERF6 proteins, 0.2 g of 2-week-old ERF6WT, ERF6AA, and ERF6DD seedlings was ground in immunoprecipitation buffer (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm EGTA, 1 mm Na3VO4, 1 mm NaF, 10 mm β-glycerophosphate, 1 μg mL−1 leupeptin, 1 μg mL−1 aprotinin, and 0.1% Triton X-100). Aliquots that contained 200 μg of total protein were added to 40 μL of anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma-Aldrich) and incubated at 4°C for 4 h on a rocking platform. After washing three times with 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 150 mm NaCl, the resultant agarose bead-protein complexes were used for either the kinase assay or immunoblotting. For immunoblotting, the agarose bead-protein complexes were separated by electrophoresis on 12.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gels, and the proteins were transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Roche) by electrophoretic transfer. After blocking at room temperature, the membranes were incubated with monoclonal anti-FLAG M2, anti-AtMPK3, or anti-AtMPK6 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). After washing three times, the membranes were incubated with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody and visualized using Lumi-Light Western Blotting Substrate (Roche) in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. The kinase assay was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, recombinant His-tagged MPK6 (10 μg) was activated by incubation with recombinant MKK5DD (1 μg) in the presence of 50 μm ATP in 50 μL of reaction buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 10 mm MgCl2, and 1 mm dithiothreitol) at 25°C for 30 min. Activated MPK6 was used to phosphorylate the agarose bead-protein complexes or the recombinant GST-tagged ERF6 C-terminal peptide terminus (amino acids 261–282; 1:10 enzyme:substrate ratio) in the same reaction buffer with 50 μm ATP and [γ-32P]ATP (0.1 μCi per reaction). The reactions were stopped by the addition of SDS loading buffer after 30 min. The phosphorylated native ERF6 proteins were visualized by autoradiography after separation on a 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, the gel was exposed to Kodak X-Omat film for 1 h. A separate phosphorylation reaction that did not contain [γ-32P]ATP was used for immunoblotting with the monoclonal anti-FLAG M2 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). Another phosphorylation without the addition of [γ-32P]ATP was used for the immunoblot assay with monoclonal anti-FLAG M2 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). Total RNA from Arabidopsis seedlings was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen). Reverse transcription was performed using 5 μg of total RNA and SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen). The cDNA diluted 10-fold was then used as a template for qRT-PCR amplification. The primer pairs used are listed in Supplemental Table S3. qRT-PCR was performed with the Stratagene M×3005 QPCR system using SYBR Green to monitor double-stranded DNA products. UBQ10 was used as an internal control and was amplified with the primer pair 5′-CACACTCCACTTGGTCTTGCGT-3′ (forward) and 5′-TGGTCTTTCCGGTGAGAGAGTCTT-3′ (reverse). ChIP was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, wild-type and 35S-FLAG-ERF6 seedlings were grown on Murashige and Skoog plates for 14 d and then treated with HL (2,000 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h. Chromatin was isolated from 2.0 g of frozen tissue and sonicated for 8 min (20-s-on and 40-s-off cycles, 25% power settings) with a VCX130 ultrasonic processor (Sonics). Immunoprecipitation was performed by incubating chromatin with 200 μL of anti-FLAG M2 agarose (Sigma) for 4 h at 4°C. After proteinase K digestion, the immunoprecipitated DNA was extracted. The enrichment of DNA fragments was determined by qRT-PCR using the primers listed in Supplemental Table S3. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers ERF6 (At4g17490), MPK3 (At3g45640), MPK4 (At4g01270), MPK6 (At2g43790), and MKK5 (At3g21220). T-DNA insertion lines used here are erf6-1 (Salk_087356, germplasm 4689944) and erf6-2 (Salk_030723, germplasm 4633311). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Expression of ROS-responsive genes under HL treatment. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression of ERF6 in wild-type and erf6 mutants. Supplemental Figure S3. H2O2 enhances ERF6 accumulation in the nucleus. Supplemental Figure S4. HL enhances ERF6 accumulation. Supplemental Table S1. Gene lists used for ROSE prediction. Supplemental Table S2. Enrichment of ROSEs in gene clusters. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used in all experiments.
