!~ABS~! Photomorphogenesis is a critical plant developmental process that involves light-mediated transcriptome changes, histone modifications, and inhibition of hypocotyl growth. However, the chromatin-based regulatory mechanism underlying this process remains largely unknown. Here, we identify ENHANCED PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1 (EPP1), previously known as PICKLE (PKL), an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor of the chromodomain/helicase/DNA binding family, as a repressor of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. We show that PKL/EPP1 expression is repressed by light in the hypocotyls in a photoreceptor-dependent manner. Furthermore, we reveal that the transcription factor ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL5 (HY5) binds to the promoters of cell elongation–related genes and recruits PKL/EPP1 through their physical interaction. PKL/EPP1 in turn negatively regulates HY5 by repressing trimethylation of histone H3 Lys 27 at the target loci, thereby regulating the expression of these genes and, thus, hypocotyl elongation. We also show that HY5 possesses transcriptional repression activity. Our study reveals a crucial role for a chromatin remodeling factor in repressing photomorphogenesis and demonstrates that transcription factor–mediated recruitment of chromatin-remodeling machinery is important for plant development in response to changing light environments.
!~RES~! To identify novel components of the light signaling pathway, we performed a genetic screen for Arabidopsis mutants with an epp phenotype in a T-DNA mutant pool (CITATION). Mutants exhibiting short hypocotyls and/or large cotyledons under red light were chosen and the phenotypes were further confirmed by analyzing the next generation of mutants under red, far-red, and blue light. One of the mutants, referred to as epp1-1, exhibited shorter hypocotyls and more expanded cotyledons in far-red, red, and blue light conditions than the Columbia (Col) wild type (Figures 1A and 1B; see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Remarkably, the epp1-1 seedlings had hypocotyls that were slightly reduced in length, opened cotyledons, and unfolded apical hooks in darkness (Figures 1C and 1D). In addition, epp1-1 accumulated increased levels of chlorophyll and anthocyanin compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figures 1B and 1C online). Furthermore, the expression of two light-inducible genes, CHS (encoding chalcone synthase) and CAB2 (encoding chlorophyll a/b binding protein), was increased in epp1-1 in both light and darkness (see Supplemental Figure 1D online). Together, these results suggest that epp1-1 is a weak cop-like mutant. [[FIGURE]] Next, we generated double mutants and tested for genetic interaction between epp1-1 and the photoreceptor mutants. The epp1 phyA, epp1 phyB, and epp1 cry1 double mutants had slightly shorter hypocotyls than the photoreceptor parent mutants under far-red, red, and blue light conditions, respectively (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online), indicating that EPP1 is a positive regulator of hypocotyl growth that acts downstream of both phytochromes and cryptochromes. Because COP1 acts as a central repressor in the light signaling pathway, we then examined the relationship between epp1 and cop1. The epp1 cop1 double mutant had much shorter hypocotyls and more expanded cotyledons and accumulated more anthocyanin than either of its parent mutants (Figures 1C to 1E; see Supplemental Figure 2C online), suggesting that EPP1 functions in parallel with COP1. Using inverse PCR, we identified a single T-DNA insertion in the last exon of At2g25170 in the epp1-1 mutant (Figure 1F). At2g25170 encodes PKL, an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor exhibiting a high level of similarity to human Mi2/CHD4 and CHD3 (CITATION). A 4.3-kb region of genomic DNA containing the entire open reading frame of PKL/SSL2 driven by its own promoter (CITATION) was able to complement the short hypocotyl phenotype of epp1-1 (see Supplemental Figure 1E online). Next, we examined other epp1 alleles, including pkl-1, epp1-2, and epp1-3 (Figure 1F). These mutants did not accumulate PKL; an immunoblotting analysis using antibodies that detected the C-terminal region of PKL (residues 1178 to 1384 amino acids) recognized a specific endogenous band of around 170 kD only in the wild type, although a weak band of 150 kD was also present (Figure 1G). pkl-1, epp1-2, and epp1-3 phenocopied epp1-1 in terms of hypocotyl length and cotyledon angle (Figure 1H; see Supplemental Figures 1F and 1G online). Therefore, these data confirm that EPP1 is indeed PKL. To further reveal how light influences PKL expression, we first compared the mRNA levels of PKL in 5-d-old Col seedlings grown under dark, far-red, red, and blue light by quantitative real-time PCR with reverse transcription (qRT-PCR). As shown in Figure 2A, PKL expression levels were dramatically lower in the light conditions tested than in darkness. Furthermore, PKL transcript levels were decreased within 12 h of transfer from dark to light, although the difference was not evident during the first six hours (Figure 2A). In addition, compared with those in the wild type, the PKL transcripts were greatly upregulated in the phyB, phyA, and cry1 mutants in red, far-red, and blue light, respectively (Figure 2B), suggesting that the light-mediated repression of PKL is facilitated by phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors. [[FIGURE]] PKL was previously shown to be ubiquitously expressed in different tissues of the adult plant (CITATION). We decided to examine whether PKL undergoes tissue-specific regulation in response to light. To this end, transgenic plants expressing ProPKL:GUS (a β-glucuronidase reporter gene driven by a 2.0-kb promoter fragment of PKL) were generated. The GUS reporter was expressed in the cotyledons and roots regardless of the type of light treatments tested (Figure 2C). Interestingly, GUS was strongly expressed in the uppermost regions of hypocotyls in darkness and disappeared upon exposure to light. However, GUS expression was weak in light but became stronger when transferred to darkness (Figure 2C). In addition, GUS activity in the hypocotyls increased with the light intensity decreased (Figure 2D), indicating that PKL expression correlates positively with the extent of hypocotyl elongation. Next, we introduced ProPKL:GUS into the phyB, phyA, and cry1 mutants and tested the expression of the transgene in red, far-red, and blue light conditions, respectively. As shown in Figure 2E, the photoreceptor mutants displayed significantly enhanced GUS expression compared with the wild-type control in the region of the hypocotyls but not in the cotyledons and roots. Together, these observations indicate that, through phytochromes and cryptochromes, light represses PKL expression specifically in the hypocotyls, reinforcing a role for PKL in promoting hypocotyl growth. To investigate whether light regulates PKL abundance, Col wild-type seedlings were grown in long-day conditions for 3 d. At the end of the light period, seedlings were kept in darkness or exposed to white light for an additional 12 or 24 h. We then performed an immunoblotting assay with PKL antibody and found that PKL protein level was drastically decreased in seedlings exposed to light compared with those in darkness (Figure 2F), suggesting that light also represses PKL at the protein level. Plant growth involves both cell elongation and proliferation. To assess the contribution of defects in cell elongation and/or proliferation to the short hypocotyls of epp1/pkl mutants, we examined cell length and cell number along the vertical axes of the hypocotyls. The average cell length of both epp1-1 and pkl-1 hypocotyls was significantly decreased to 60% of the wild type, correlating with the decrease in overall hypocotyl length, whereas the number of cells did not differ significantly between epp1/pkl and the wild type (Figure 3A). This finding indicates that PKL predominantly regulates cell elongation, but not cell proliferation, during hypocotyl growth. [[FIGURE]] To further explore the molecular mechanism by which PKL regulates hypocotyl cell elongation, we attempted to identify its putative direct target genes from the public data available. Candidate genes were selected based on the following criteria: (1) they should encode cell wall loosening or hydrolytic enzymes that are implicated directly in regulating cell elongation (CITATION); (2) they should encode components involved in the biosynthesis or signaling of brassinosteroids or auxin (CITATION; CITATION); and (3) if the genes satisfy criteria (1) and (2), expression of the genes should be repressed by light in a manner similar to EPP1/PKL (CITATION). Accordingly, six genes, including EXTENSIN3 (EXT3), EXPANSIN2 (EXP2), XYLOGLUCAN ENDOTRANSGLUCOSYLASE/HYDROLASE17 (XTH17), XYLOGLUCAN ENDOTRANSGLYCOSYLASE6 (XTR6), DWARF4 (DWF4), and INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID INDUCIBLE19 (IAA19) were selected for further analysis. We performed qRT-PCR analysis to determine whether these genes are regulated by PKL. As shown in Figure 3B, the transcript levels of these genes were drastically decreased in the epp1-1, pkl-1, and epp1-2 mutants compared with the wild type, suggesting that PKL does indeed contribute to the activation of these genes. To test whether PKL activates the expression of EXT3, EXP2, XTH17, XTR6, DWF4, and IAA19 directly, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation with quantitative PCR (ChIP-qPCR) using DNA isolated from Col wild type and the PKL antibody. Indeed, the promoter and coding regions of DWF4, EXT3, XTH17, and XTR6 was greatly enriched in DNA precipitated using the PKL antibody, but not in DNA pulled down with the IgG serum control (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Figure 3A online; EXP2 and IAA19 were analyzed below in detail). As a negative control, the enrichment of the At4g26900 promoter (CITATION) was very low and indistinguishable between the PKL antibody and IgG. These data indicate that PKL directly associates with the genomic sequences of these cell elongation–related genes. In support of our finding that these genes are downstream targets of PKL, loss-of-function mutants of EXP2 and DWF4 also displayed short hypocotyls when grown in light (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Furthermore, IAA19 expression in the hypocotyls was repressed by light in a manner similar to PKL (CITATION) and is also involved in hypocotyl cell elongation (CITATION). Previous studies documented that H3K27me3 plays an important role in PKL-mediated transcriptional regulation (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). A ChIP assay using the H3K27me3 antibody followed by quantitative PCR revealed that EXT3, XTH17, XTR6, DWF4, EXP2, and IAA19 were all marked by H3K27me3; however, H3K27me3 levels were substantially increased in the epp1-1 mutant (Figure 3D; EXP2 and IAA19 were analyzed below). Taken together, these results demonstrate that PKL promotes cell elongation likely by inhibiting H3K27me3 of regions of chromatin that are specifically associated with the target genes involved in cell elongation. In mammals, the PKL homolog Mi-2b (CHD4) acts as an integral subunit of different complexes and interacts with transcription factors to modulate gene expression (CITATION). We reasoned that PKL might also have interacting partners involved in the regulation of light signaling. Given that PKL represses photomorphogenesis under all light conditions and that HY5 is a central transcription factor in the light signaling pathway, HY5 was a good candidate partner. To investigate whether PKL and HY5 interact with each other, we generated LexA fusions of full-length PKL and of the N-terminal (D1) and C-terminal (D2) fragments of PKL for yeast two-hybrid analysis with B42 activation domain–tagged HY5 (AD-HY5) (Figure 4A). However, neither full-length PKL (LexA-PKL) nor the C-terminal domain (LexA-D2) showed a positive interaction with AD-HY5. Notably, coexpression of LexA-D1 (including the PHD domain, chromodomains, and ATPase domain) and AD-HY5 activated the LacZ reporter gene (Figure 4B). To further determine which domain(s) of PKL is required for binding to HY5, a series of deletion constructs was generated (Figure 4A). As shown in Figure 4B, deletion of the ATPase domain (D3) or of both the ATPase domain and the chromodomain (D4) abolished the PKL-HY5 interaction. Intriguingly, the ATPase domain (D6) was necessary and sufficient for the interaction with HY5 and also with HYH, the close homolog of HY5 (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). However, a point mutation (Lys changed to Ala) of an evolutionarily conserved amino acid, Lys-304, which is predicted to bind ATP within the ATPase domain, abolished the interaction (see Supplemental Figure 6 online; Figure 4B). Next, we performed a pull-down assay and found that glutathione S-transferase (GST)-D6 successfully precipitated His-tagged HY5 (Figure 4C). Together, these results demonstrate that PKL physically interacts with HY5 through the ATPase domain. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the PKL-HY5 interaction in vivo, we performed a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay in Arabidopsis protoplasts and found that coexpression of PKL-YFPN (fused with the N-terminal half of yellow fluorescent protein) and HY5-YFPC (fused with C-terminal half of YFP) reconstituted a functional YFP in the nucleus, whereas the controls did not (Figure 4D). Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitation analysis showed that PKL was able to precipitate HY5 in Col seedlings grown in either light or dark conditions but not in the epp1-1 mutant (Figure 4E). Collectively, these results indicate that PKL constitutively interacts with HY5 in the nucleus, regardless of the type of light treatment. To study the functional relationship between PKL and HY5, we constructed an epp1 hy5 double mutant by crossing epp1-1 with hy5-215 (CITATION). The epp1 hy5 seedlings displayed intermediate hypocotyl elongation in all light conditions and were indistinguishable from the Col wild type in red light (Figures 4F and 4G), suggesting that PKL and HY5 antagonistically regulate hypocotyl growth. A previous study reported that HY5 directly binds target genes with ACGT-containing elements or a G-box (CACGTG) in their promoter sequences (CITATION). Promoter analysis revealed that EXT3, EXP2, XTH17, XTR6, DWF4, and IAA19 contain a putative G-box or ACGT-containing elements within their regulatory regions and coding regions close to translational start site (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Figure 3A online). ChIP-qPCR assay showed that these genes were highly enriched in DNA samples precipitated with HY5 antibody (see Supplemental Figure 3B online; Figure 5B), suggesting that, similar to PKL, HY5 associates with the DNA sequences of these cell elongation–related genes. In this study, we selected EXP2 and IAA19 as examples for further detailed molecular analysis. [[FIGURE]] Yeast one-hybrid assays showed that AD-HY5 fusion proteins, but not AD alone, bound to the promoters (1.0 and 1.7 kb upstream from the ATG start site, respectively) or to a 39-bp fragment containing the G-box motif of EXP2 and IAA19 (wild type) and strongly activated the expression of the LacZ reporter gene (Figure 5B). However, point mutations in the G-box (m, CACGTG changed to TTTTTG) of both genes abolished LacZ activation (Figure 5B). These observations indicate that HY5 specifically binds to the regulatory regions of IAA19 and EXP2 via the G-box motif. ChIP-qPCR was performed to investigate the in vivo binding of IAA19 and EXP2 to HY5 and PKL in light- and dark-grown Col seedlings. Relative to the IgG serum, HY5 antibody markedly pulled down the G-box–containing fragments of EXP2 (E2) and IAA19 (I2) in both darkness and light and even bound to the coding sequence of IAA19 (I3) but did not pull down the actin2 negative control (Figure 5C). Intriguingly, these pulled-down fragments were also drastically enriched in samples precipitated by antibodies against PKL. In addition, there was a slight increase in samples pulled down by the HY5 antibody in seedlings grown in light versus darkness, and the opposite was true for PKL (Figure 5C). We further found that the ability of PKL to bind to target loci was compromised in the hy5 hyh double mutant, as it was in epp1-1, but not in the hy5 single mutant (Figure 5D). These results together suggest that PKL and HY5 (and HYH) likely associate with the cell elongation–related gene loci at the same time during light-mediated seedling development. The recruitment of PKL requires the presence of both HY5 and HYH, consistent with their redundant function in regulating hypocotyl growth (CITATION). The interaction between PKL and HY5 as well as their association with the target chromatin prompted us to analyze how EXP2 and IAA19 expression was coregulated by these proteins. As shown in Figure 5E, the expression of EXP2 and IAA19 was dramatically decreased after the transition from darkness to light. Remarkably, EXP2 and IAA19 expression was stronger in hy5 but weaker in epp1 compared with the Col wild type. Loss of HY5 activity caused a substantial induction of EXP2 and IAA19 expression in the epp1 mutant background (Figure 5E). Thus, PKL and HY5 act antagonistically to regulate downstream gene expression. This antagonistic regulation led us to further investigate the levels of H3K27me3 on IAA19 and EXP2 loci. ChIP-qPCR assays using the H3K27me3 antibody were performed in hy5 and/or epp1 mutants and also in the Col wild type. Mutation of PKL caused a remarkable increase in H3K27me3 levels at critical IAA19 and EXP2 regulatory regions, as was observed for other cell elongation–related genes (Figure 3D). However, H3K27me3 levels were reduced by more than 50% in the hy5-215 mutant compared with the wild type (Figure 5F). Strikingly, in the epp1 hy5 double mutant, similar amounts of DNA were pulled down by H3K27me3 antibody as in the wild type (Figure 5F). These data suggest that PKL antagonizes with HY5 in regulating the level of H3K27me3 at the cell elongation gene loci, whereas HY5 promoters H3K27me3 at these loci, correlating with their antagonistic role in modulating gene expression. Consistent with the expression pattern of EXP2 and IAA19, the H3K27me3 repressive mark was markedly recruited to these loci in light conditions but was low in the dark (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). It is noteworthy that the transcript level of EXP2, but not of IAA19, was drastically inhibited in epp1-1 compared with the wild type in darkness (Figure 5E). Accordingly, a ChIP assay showed that relatively more H3K27me3 marks were deposited on EXP2 locus, but not on IAA19, in dark-grown epp1-1 than those were in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 7B online). The fact that HY5 directly binds to the promoters of EXP2 and IAA19 and that it represses their expression prompted us to investigate whether HY5 has transcriptional repression activity. CITATION failed to detect any transcriptional repression activity of HY5 in yeast and plant cells. We thus fused HY5 with the VP16 activation domain and tested the activity in a transient luciferase (LUC) expression system (Figure 6A). As shown in Figure 6B, BD-HY5 (fused with GAL4 DNA binding domain) did not affect transcription of the ProGAL4:LUC reporter gene. BD-VP16 strongly activated the LUC reporter gene; however, this activity was drastically inhibited by HY5 (BD-HY5-VP16), in a manner similar to the function of the repression domain of ERF3 (CITATION). Therefore, this result suggests that HY5 indeed has intrinsic transcriptional repression activity in vivo. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The epp1-1 mutant was originally isolated from activation-tagging T-DNA insertion stocks (CITATION). pkl-1 (CITATION), epp1-2 (SAIL_73_H08), epp1-3 (Salk_033554C), exp2-1 (Salk_137972C), dwf4-11 (SAIL_713_F05), phyA-211 (CITATION), phyB-9 (CITATION), cry1-304 (CITATION), hy5-215 (CITATION), hyh (CS849765), cop1-4 (CITATION), pkr1-1, pkr2-2 (CITATION), chr5-1 (Salk_087282), and ProPKL:PKL-4Myc (CITATION) are of the Col ecotype. The T-DNA mutants from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center were confirmed by PCR genotyping and sequencing. Double mutants were generated by genetic crossing and were verified by phenotype inspection, antibiotic selection, PCR genotyping, and/or sequencing. After sterilization, seeds were sown onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1% Suc and 0.8% agar and were incubated at 4°C in darkness for 3 d, followed by various light treatments. Far-red (12 μmol m−2 s−1), red (10 μmol m−2 s−1), and blue (14 μmol m−2 s−1) light were supplied by light-emitting diode light sources, or the light intensities were otherwise indicated. White light (60 μmol m−2 s−1) was supplied by cool white fluorescent lamps. After growth under appropriate light conditions, the seedlings were transferred to MS plates and were photographed with a digital camera (Olympus). Cell length and number were determined by inspection under a microscope. The hypocotyl length, cotyledon angle, and cell length were measured using NIH Image J software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). Anthocyanin and chlorophyll measurements were conducted as previously described (CITATION). Anthocyanin content was expressed as (A530 − 0.25 × A657) per 100 seedlings. Chlorophyll content was expressed as micrograms per 100 seedlings. All experiments were performed in triplicate. The T-DNA insertion site in epp1-1 was identified by inverse PCR analysis. Genomic DNA was extracted from the epp1-1 seedlings and digested with BamHI or SpeI. After self-ligation with T4 DNA ligase, PCR was performed to amplify the T-DNA flanking sequence using T3 and pSKI-RB primers. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the pEASY vector (TransGen) and subjected to DNA sequencing with the T3 primer. To obtain the open reading frame (ORF), first-strand cDNA was reverse transcribed using oligo(dT)18 primer from total RNA extracted from Col wild-type seedlings. The ORFs of PKL and HY5 were amplified using high fidelity Pfu DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) and cloned into the pEASY vector, resulting in pEASY-PKL and pEASY-HY5, respectively. To facilitate the follow-up cloning, two restriction sites within the PKL ORF, MfeI and XhoI, were mutagenized without changing the amino acid sequence by site-directed mutagenesis (Takara). The resulting plasmid was designated pEASY-PKLm. To generate a series of PKL deletions, D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, and D6 fragments, as shown in Figure 4A, were amplified using the pEASY-PKLm plasmid as template and the corresponding primer pairs and cloned into the pEASY vector, resulting in pEASY-D1/D2/D3/D4/D5/D6, respectively. To generate a point mutation derivative within the D6 fragment, D6K304A, site-directed mutagenesis was performed using pEASY-D6 as template. The resulting vector was named pEASY-D6K304A. To construct vectors for the yeast two-hybrid assay, the pEASY-PKLm/D1/D2/D3/D4/D5/D6/D6K304A plasmids were cut with MfeI and XhoI, and the corresponding fragments were ligated into EcoRI/XhoI-digested pEG202 vector (Clontech) to give rise to pLexA-PKL/D1/D2/D3/D4/D5/D6/D6K304A, respectively. The HY5 fragment was released from EcoRI/XhoI-cut pEASY-HY5 and ligated into the pJG4-5 vector digested with the same enzymes to generate pAD-HY5. To prepare constructs for the BiFC assay, the fragment liberated from MfeI/XhoI-cut pEASY-PKLm was cloned into the pUC-SPYNE vector (CITATION) digested with EcoRI and XhoI to generate pYFPN-PKL. pEASY-HY5 plasmid was cut with EcoRI and XhoI, and the HY5 fragment was cloned into the pUC-SPYCE vector digested with EcoRI and XhoI to give rise to pYFPC-HY5. To generate bacterial expression vectors, the pEASY-D6 plasmid was digested with MfeI and XhoI, and the D6 fragment was inserted into the pGEX-5X-1 vector (GE Healthcare) digested with EcoRI and XhoI, resulting in pGEX-D6. pEASY-HY5 plasmids were cut with EcoRI and XhoI, and the HY5 ORF was ligated into the pET-28a vector (Novagen) digested with the same enzymes to generate pHis-HY5. To make the construct for generating PKL antibody, a DNA fragment corresponding to amino acids 1178 to 1384 was amplified and cloned into pEASY, resulting in pEASY-PKL-CT. pEASY-PKL-CT was then digested with BamHI and XhoI, and the PKL-CT fragment was inserted into pET-28a cut with BamHI and XhoI to give rise to pHis-PKL-CT. To prepare constructs for the yeast one-hybrid assay, 1.0- and 1.7-kb fragments of the EXP2 and IAA19 promoters, respectively, were PCR amplified from Col genomic DNA and ligated into the pEASY vector to give rise to pEASY-EXP2p and pEASY-IAA19p, respectively. The EXP2 and IAA19 promoter fragments were released from pEASY-EXP2p (cut with EcoRI/XhoI) and pEASY-IAA19p (cut with MfeI/XhoI) and inserted into pLacZi2μ (CITATION) to generate ProEXP2:LacZ and ProIAA19:LacZ, respectively. To construct LacZ reporter genes driven by the subfragments of the EXP2 and IAA19 promoters (including the wild-type and mutant form of the G-box), oligonucleotides were synthesized as two complementary oligo primers with an EcoRI site overhang at the 5′-end and an XhoI site overhang at the 3′-end. The oligo primers were annealed and the double-stranded oligonucleotides were ligated into the EcoRI-XhoI sites of pLacZi2μ to produce EXP2wt:LacZ, EXP2m:LacZ, IAA19wt:LacZ, and IAA19m:LacZ, respectively. To generate constructs for the transient expression assay, a fragment encoding the ERF3 repression domain (ERF3RD) was amplified from Col DNA, and a fragment encoding the VP16 activation domain was amplified from pGEM-VP16A (CITATION). These genes were cloned into pEASY to generate pEASY-ERF3RD and pEASY-VP16, respectively. The GAL4 DNA binding domain was amplified from the pGBKT7 vector (Clontech). The fragment was then digested with NcoI and EcoRI and ligated into the pSAT vector (CITATION) cut with the same enzymes, resulting in pSAT-GAL4BD. The HY5 and ERF3RD fragments were released from pEASY-HY5 and pEASY-ERF3RD digested with EcoRI and XhoI and inserted into the EcoRI-SalI sites of pSAT-GAL4BD to generate pGAL4DB-HY5 and pGAL4DB-ERF3RD, respectively. pEASY-VP16 was cut with BamHI and SalI to release VP16, which was then inserted into the BamHI-SalI sites of pSAT-GAL4BD, resulting in pGAD4BD-VP16. pEASY-HY5 and pEASY-ERF3RD plasmids were cut with EcoRI and XhoI, and the fragments were then inserted into EcoRI-SalI–cut pGAD4BD-VP16 to generate pGAD4BD-HY5-VP16 and pGAD4BD-ERF3RD-VP16, respectively. VP16 was amplified and digested with KpnI and BamHI, and the fragment was inserted into pSAT-GAL4BD cut with the same enzymes to generate pGAL4BD-VP16-2. pEASY-PKLm was cut with MfeI and XhoI and the PKL fragment was cloned into EcoRI-SalI–cut pSAT-GAL4BD and pGAL4BD-VP16-2, resulting in pGAL4DB-PKL and pGAL4DB-PKL-VP16, respectively. To construct ProPKL:GUS, a fragment spanning the region 2 kb upstream of the ATG start site of the PKL coding sequence was amplified by PCR and cloned into pEASY, resulting in pEASY-PKLp. pEASY-PKLp plasmid was digested with SalI and BamHI to release the PKL promoter, which was then ligated into the pRI101-AN vector (Takara) digested with the same enzymes to generate ProPKL:GUS. The primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. All amplified fragments were validated by sequencing. The binary constructs were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and then introduced into destination plants via the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on MS plates in the presence of 50 mg/L kanamycin. Seedling growth conditions are described in the text. Plant total RNA was isolated by RNA extraction kit (Tiangen), and the first-strand cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Real-time PCR was performed with the SYBR Premix ExTaq kit (Takara) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Primers are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Three biological replicates were performed for each sample and the expression level was normalized to that of a UBQ control. Seedlings of the ProPKL:GUS transgenic line were harvested and incubated overnight in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer containing 50 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 50 mM K4Fe(CN)6, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide at 37°C. GUS expression was examined under a dissecting microscope (Olympus), and images were captured by a digital camera (Olympus). The LUC activity assay was performed as previously reported (CITATION). LUC reporter activity was detected with a luminescence kit using the LUC assay substrate (Promega). Relative reporter gene expression levels are expressed as the ratio of LUC to GUS. GST, GST-D6, His-PKL-CT, and His-HY5 recombinant fusion proteins were induced by isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside and expressed in the Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain. The proteins were then purified using Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare; for GST fusions) or Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen; for His fusions) following the manufacturer’s instructions. His-PKL-CT and His-HY5 were then used to raise PKL and HY5 polyclonal antibodies in rabbits, respectively. For tubulin antibody, a synthetic peptide (EEVGAEGGDDEDDEGEEY) derived from amino acids 433 to 450 of tubulin 4 was conjugated with KLH (Cali-Bio) and used for injecting rabbit. ChIP assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Chromatin complexes were incubated with anti-PKL, anti-HY5, anti-H3 (Millipore 07-690), or anti-H3K27me3 (Millipore 07-449) polyclonal antibodies or IgG serum. The precipitated DNA fragments were recovered and quantified by quantitative PCR with the primers shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. Relative enrichment is expressed as the ratio of DNA amount after immunoprecipitation to that in input. The procedures used for pull-down, coimmunoprecipitation, and immunoblot assays were described previously (CITATION). For the pull-down assay, ∼2 µg of purified recombinant bait protein (GST-D6 or GST) and 2 µg of prey protein (His-HY5) were incubated in binding buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, and 0.6% Triton X-100) for 2 h at 4°C. Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (Roche) were added and reactions were incubated for 1 h. After washing with binding buffer, precipitated proteins were eluted in 2× SDS loading buffer. The proteins were then size fractionated on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel and immunoblotted with anti-His or anti-GST antibodies (Abcam ab19256). For the coimmunoprecipitation assay, seedlings were grown in the light for 4 d. Total proteins were extracted with extraction buffer and incubated with 2 μg anti-PKL antibody for 2 to 3 h at 4°C. Fifty microliters of protein G-Sepharose beads (Roche) was added and the reaction was incubated for a further 2 to 3 h. The beads were washed three times with coimmunoprecipitation buffer, and the precipitated proteins were eluted in 2× SDS loading buffer by boiling for 10 min. The proteins were separated on a 6 or 8% SDS-PAGE gel and detected by immunoblotting with anti-PKL and anti-HY5 antibodies. For BiFC assays, plasmids of N- and C-terminal fusions of YFP were cotransformed into Arabidopsis thaliana protoplasts as previously described (CITATION). The protoplasts were incubated under weak light for 12 to 16 h before observation. The YFP fluorescence was determined using a confocal microscope (Olympus). Yeast one-hybrid and two-hybrid assays were performed according to the Yeast Protocols Handbook (Clontech). Briefly, for the yeast one-hybrid assay, the AD fusion constructs were cotransformed with various LacZ reporter plasmids into yeast strain EGY48. Transformants were grown on SD/-Trp-Ura dropout plates containing 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside (X-gal) for blue color development. For yeast two-hybrid analysis, the AD fusion constructs were transformed into the strain Ym4271, and LexA-fusion plasmids were cotransformed with a LexAop:LacZ (Clontech) reporter into the strain EGY48. After mating, transformants were grown on SD/-Trp-Ura-His dropout plates with X-gal for blue color development. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: PKL/EPP1 (At2g25170), HY5 (At5g11260), HYH (At3g17609), EXP2 (At5g05290), IAA19 (At3g15540), DWF4 (At3g50660), EXT3 (At1g21310), XTH17 (At1g65310), XTR6 (At4g25810), CHS (At5g13930), CAB2 (At1g29920), PKR1 (At5g44800), PKR2 (At4g31900), CHR5 (At2g13370), ERF3 (AT1G50640), UBQ1 (At3g52590), ACT2 (At3g18780), and TUA4 (At1g04820). Mutants investigated in this study are listed in Methods. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Characterization of epp1 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 2. Genetic Relationship between PKL/EPP1 and the Photoreceptors and COP1. Supplemental Figure 3. ChIP-qPCR Assay Using HY5 Antibody. Supplemental Figure 4. Photomorphogenic Phenotype of the exp2 and dwf4 Loss-of-Function Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. HYH Interacts with PKL in Yeast Cells. Supplemental Figure 6. Amino Acid Alignment of Truncated ATP Binding/Helicase Domains of CHD3/CHD4. Supplemental Figure 7. ChIP Assay Using H3K27me3 Antibody of Samples Grown under Light and Dark Conditions. Supplemental Figure 8. Transient Transcriptional Activity Assay of PKL. Supplemental Figure 9. Phenotype of pkr1, pkr2, and chr5 Single Mutants and Their Double Mutants with pkl. Supplemental Table 1. List of Primers Used in This Study.
