!~ABS~! Auxin plays a pivotal role in plant development by modulating the activity of SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes. Here, we positionally cloned Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) incurvata13 (icu13), a mutation that causes leaf hyponasty and reduces leaf venation pattern complexity and auxin responsiveness. We found that icu13 is a novel recessive allele of AUXIN RESISTANT6 (AXR6), which encodes CULLIN1, an invariable component of the SCF complex. Consistent with a role for auxin in vascular specification, the vascular defects in the icu13 mutant were accompanied by reduced expression of auxin transport and auxin perception markers in provascular cells. This observation is consistent with the expression pattern of AXR6, which we found to be restricted to vascular precursors and hydathodes in wild-type leaf primordia. AXR1, RELATED TO UBIQUITIN1-CONJUGATING ENZYME1, CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC9 SIGNALOSOME5A, and CULLIN-ASSOCIATED NEDD8-DISSOCIATED1 participate in the covalent modification of CULLIN1 by RELATED TO UBIQUITIN. Hypomorphic alleles of these genes also display simple venation patterns, and their double mutant combinations with icu13 exhibited a synergistic, rootless phenotype reminiscent of that caused by loss of function of MONOPTEROS (MP), which forms an auxin-signaling module with BODENLOS (BDL). The phenotypes of double mutant combinations of icu13 with either a gain-of-function allele of BDL or a loss-of-function allele of MP were synergistic. In addition, a BDL:green fluorescent protein fusion protein accumulated in icu13, and BDL loss of function or MP overexpression suppressed the phenotype of icu13. Our results demonstrate that the MP-BDL module is required not only for root specification in embryogenesis and vascular postembryonic development but also for leaf flatness.
!~RES~! For positional cloning of the recessive icu13 mutation, a mapping population of 481 F2 phenotypically mutant plants derived from an icu13 × Landsberg erecta cross was used for linkage analysis as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The oligonucleotides used for simple sequence length polymorphism marker scoring are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The icu13 mutation mapped to a 139-kb interval on top of chromosome 4, encompassing 38 annotated genes, one of which was AXR6 (Fig. 1, A and B). We sequenced the AXR6 transcription unit in the icu13 mutant and its corresponding wild type, Enkheim-2 (En-2), finding in exon 15 a C→T transition that creates a new splicing donor site, as confirmed by comparison of the sequences of PCR amplification products obtained from En-2 and icu13 complementary DNAs (cDNAs; Supplemental Fig. S1). Two different AXR6 splice variants are present in icu13 seedlings: one variant differs from the wild-type En-2 mRNA only in a silent point mutation (GGC→GGT, both codons encoding Gly), but the other variant lacks the last five nucleotides of the 15th exon as a consequence of the new splicing donor site (GC→GT) introduced by the mutation. Translation of the latter mRNA is predicted to produce a truncated protein product; whereas the AXR6 wild-type protein includes 738 amino acids, the mutant protein is predicted to contain only 492, 19 of which, at its C terminus, are different from those of the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] To quantify the relative levels of the two splice variants produced by the icu13 allele, we performed quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR amplifications using two primer pairs: one primer pair (1F+1R) amplifies a cDNA region upstream of the icu13 mutation that is shared by both splice variants, and the other primer pair (1F+2R) amplifies only the long splice variant (Fig. 1C). Our results indicated that AXR6 mRNA levels in En-2 are more than twice those in the icu13 mutant. Also, only 43.2% of the AXR6 mRNA in the icu13 mutant corresponded to the longer splice variant, which can be assumed to be functionally wild type (Fig. 1D). Taken together, these results indicate that the amount of mRNA than can be translated into wild-type AXR6 proteins in icu13 is 18% of that seen in the wild type En-2. As we could not exclude translation of the short, aberrant splice variant of icu13, we tried to detect its predicted truncated protein product (Supplemental Fig. S2) by western blotting using the available anti-CUL1 antibody (CITATION). Although we could not detect any band with the size predicted for the truncated protein (57 kD), we confirmed that both wild-type inactive (CUL1) and wild-type rubylated (CUL1-RUB) protein species were strongly decreased in icu13 seedling extracts compared with the wild type (Fig. 1E). The enhancer of tir1-1 auxin resistance (eta1) recessive allele of AXR6 carries a missense mutation (CITATION; Fig. 1B). Both eta1 and icu13 caused mild leaf hyponasty (Fig. 2, A and B). Transverse sections of first-node vegetative leaves indicated that icu13 leaves contained smaller adaxial pavement cells, more densely packed palisade mesophyll cells, and fewer air spaces in the spongy mesophyll than wild-type En-2 (Supplemental Fig. S3). More vegetative leaves were produced by icu13 (13.60 ± 1.34 at 21 d after stratification [das]) than En-2 (11.85 ± 0.91; P < 0.01; Fig. 2B), despite bolting occurring earlier in icu13 (20.98 ± 1.71 das) than in En-2 (23.64 ± 1.34 das; P < 0.01). Flowering stems were much shorter in icu13 and eta1 mutants than in their respective wild types (Fig. 2C) and also displayed reduced apical dominance (increased inflorescence branching): at 45 das, icu13 plants exhibited more flowering stems (44.22 ± 6.48; n = 9) than En-2 (23.67 ± 3.74; n = 9; P < 0.01). Similar results were obtained for eta1 (52.00 ± 5.7; n = 5) compared with Columbia-0 (Col-0; 33.40 ± 5.70; n = 5; P < 0.01). [[FIGURE]] We found that the complexity of the vascular network was reduced in icu13 and eta1 first- and third-node leaves compared with their wild types. Third-, fourth-, and higher order veins were missing from icu13 and eta1 venation patterns in these leaves (Fig. 2D). The venation density and number of branching points per millimeter squared, which are indicators of vascular complexity (CITATION), were reduced in both icu13 and eta1, and the number of free-ending veins per mm of venation length was significantly increased only in icu13 (Table I). All values are means from 10 first-node leaf measurements ± sd. Numbers in boldface indicate significantly different (P < 0.05) values of the single mutants compared with their wild types or of the double mutants compared with their parental single mutants. For icu13 35Spro:MP and icu13 iaa12-1, values in boldface are significantly different (P < 0.05) from those of icu13. We also tested the auxin responses of icu13 and eta1. Seedlings of these mutants displayed reduced inhibition of primary root growth when treated with exogenous IAA (Fig. 2E; P < 0.01) and displayed a small increase in the number of lateral roots after the transfer of mutant seedlings to IAA-supplemented plates (Fig. 2F). We confirmed this reduction in auxin responses by examining the expression of the DR5rev:GFP reporter (CITATION) in primary root meristems. DR5rev:GFP expression in icu13 and eta1 roots, in contrast to expression in the wild type, was restricted to the distal region of the meristem (quiescent center and columella) and excluded from the vasculature (Supplemental Fig. S4). These results are consistent with a reduction in auxin responses in the icu13 and eta1 mutants, a reduction that can be explained by impaired SCFTIR1/AFB1-3 function. Twelve mutations of AXR6 have already been described, including loss- and gain-of-function alleles (Fig. 1B). To study their phenotypes in combination with icu13, we selected four mutants: a semidominant, gain-of-function allele, axr6-2 (CITATION), and three recessive alleles, two of which are null (cul1-1 and cul1-2; CITATION) and one that is likely hypomorphic (eta1; CITATION). We studied the embryo and seedling phenotypes of plants heterozygous for all possible combinations of these five alleles of AXR6 (Fig. 3). The icu13/eta1 heterozygotes (Fig. 3I) were indistinguishable from their icu13/icu13 parent, except for their increased size, which is due to heterosis caused by their hybrid En-2/Col-0 background (data not shown). Seedlings heterozygous for icu13 and axr6-2, cul1-1, or cul1-2 lacked their basal region, including most of the hypocotyl and primary root, and died at postembryonic stages (Fig. 3, C and G; data not shown). These three heterozygotes strongly resembled homozygous axr6-1, axr6-2 (Fig. 3B), mp, or bdl mutants. However, combinations of eta1 with axr6-2, cul1-1, or cul1-2 developed roots and were fertile when grown in petri dishes (Fig. 3, D and H; data not shown). Taken together, our results indicate that the recessive icu13 mutation causes a stronger loss of function in AXR6 than the eta1 mutation. [[FIGURE]] To study the phenotypes of axr6-2/cul1-1 and axr6-2/cul1-2 heterozygotes, siliques from several axr6-2/AXR6 × AXR6/cul1-1 and axr6-2/AXR6 × AXR6/cul1-2 crosses were collected before dehiscence and manually dissected. In 17 out of 19 siliques, one-quarter of the seeds were abortive (Supplemental Table S2). Differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy revealed that the axr6-2/cul1-1 (Fig. 3K) and axr6-2/cul1-2 (Fig. 3L) embryos were in most cases arrested at the late globular stage (89.7%; n = 68), exhibiting several layers of cells within the suspensor. Previous analysis of AXR6 indicated that it played a role in auxin signaling. To assess the role of AXR6 and auxin signaling in vascular fate specification and in the mutant phenotype of icu13, we examined the expression of markers for auxin transport (PIN1pro:PIN1:GFP; CITATION), auxin perception (DR5rev:GFP; CITATION), and vascular differentiation (ATHB8pro:GUS; CITATION; see “Materials and Methods”). PIN1 encodes the only PIN family auxin-efflux carrier that is expressed early in leaf preprocambial cells and whose expression is auxin dependent (CITATION). We used the PIN1pro:PIN1:GFP marker (CITATION) to visualize auxin transport during early development of the leaf venation pattern. PIN1:GFP expression was lower in icu13 than in wild-type En-2 primordia at 3 das (Fig. 4, A and F). PIN1:GFP expression in leaf primordia was detected at 4 das in the preprocambial cells of more than three vascular loops in En-2 (Fig. 4B) and in only one or two vascular loops, including the midvein, in icu13 (Fig. 4G). The differences in PIN1:GFP expression between En-2 and icu13 were enhanced later in leaf primordium development (Fig. 4, C, D, H, and I). Both En-2 and icu13 seedlings treated with the auxin efflux inhibitor N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA; CITATION) displayed increased leaf vein densities, which correlates with an enhanced expression of PIN1:GFP (Fig. 4, E and J). However, the venation patterns of icu13 leaf primordia treated with NPA were always less complex than those of the wild type. [[FIGURE]] In contrast to PIN1pro:PIN1:GFP, the expression of DR5rev:GFP was initially indistinguishable in icu13 and En-2 and was restricted to the apex of leaf primordia at 3 das (Fig. 4, K and P). However, from 4 to 7 das, DR5rev:GFP expression broadened in the wild type but expanded much less in icu13 (Fig. 4, L–N and Q–S). Consistent with decreased auxin signaling in icu13 leaves, DR5rev:GFP expression was substantially reduced in the quiescent center and the columella region of icu13 root meristems at 7 das (Supplemental Fig. S4). NPA treatment increased vein densities and DR5rev:GFP expression in En-2 and icu13, but the icu13 venation pattern was much simpler (Fig. 4, O and T). ATHB8 encodes an MP-inducible HD-Zip III transcription factor that restricts preprocambial cell fate specification downstream of auxin (CITATION; CITATION). ATHB8pro:GUS expression was similar in the central region of leaf primordia of En-2 and icu13 at 3 das (Fig. 4, U and Z) and more complex in En-2 than in icu13 from 4 das onward (Fig. 4, V–Y and AA–AD). In eta1 leaf primordia, the expression patterns of DR5rev:GFP, PIN1pro:PIN1:GFP, and ATHB8pro:GUS were similar to those in icu13 (data not shown). Taken together, our results indicate that a loss-of-function mutation in AXR6, such as the icu13 and eta1 mutations, alters vascular development, beginning at the earliest stages of auxin perception and transport and extending to the later expression of specific vascular differentiation genes. To examine AXR6 expression, an AXR6pro:GUS transcriptional fusion was obtained and transferred into plants. Two independent T2 transgenic families in the Col-0 background and five in the En-2 background exhibited similar expression patterns. AXR6 was broadly expressed during embryogenesis from the 16-cell dermatogen (Supplemental Fig. S5A) to the early torpedo (Supplemental Fig. S5, B–D) stages and remained ubiquitous in both the embryo and the suspensor. From the torpedo stage onward, strong GUS staining was associated with provascular tissues and the shoot apical meristem (Supplemental Fig. S5E). During postembryonic development, AXR6 expression was high in the shoot (Fig. 5A) and root apical meristems (Fig. 5C), vascular associated cells, and cotyledon and leaf hydathodes (Fig. 5, A and B). In the flowers, AXR6pro:GUS was mainly expressed in the vasculature, mature stigmas, ovules, and mature pollen grains (Fig. 5, D–F). We also examined AXR6pro:GUS expression during the early development of the first pair of leaves, from 3 to 10 das, in phenotypically mutant and wild-type siblings from several F3 families segregating for the icu13 mutation. The initially broad AXR6pro:GUS expression in leaf primordia (Supplemental Fig. S5, F and K) was rapidly restricted to vascular associated cells and hydathodes (Supplemental Fig. S5, G–J and L–O). NPA treatment of either wild-type or icu13 seedlings increased vein density, which was correlated with an increase in the expression of the AXR6pro:GUS marker in their leaves (Supplemental Fig. S5, I and N). [[FIGURE]] To study AXR6 protein distribution and subcellular localization, we used an AXR6:GFP fusion expressed under the control of the AXR6 promoter. We obtained two T2 families in the Col-0 background and four in the En-2 background, all of them expressing the AXR6pro:AXR6:GFP construct. AXR6:GFP was detected early in embryogenesis, from the dermatogen stage onward (Fig. 5, G–K). The pattern of early embryonic AXR6:GFP expression was ubiquitous, similar to that seen for AXR6pro:GUS. However, increased AXR6:GFP signal was detected in provascular tissues from the heart stage onward (Fig. 5, I–K). Postembryonic expression of AXR6:GFP was strong in the division zone of the root meristem (Fig. 5L), with both nuclear and cytoplasmic subcellular localization (Fig. 5, M and N) as described previously for the AXR6 protein (CITATION; CITATION). In the root differentiation zone, AXR6:GFP was detected only in pericycle cells (data not shown). AXR6:GFP was broadly expressed in young leaf primordia (Fig. 5O), but in mature cotyledons and leaves, it was restricted to vascular associated cells (Fig. 5P) and some cells within the hydathodes (Fig. 5Q). We also performed a time-series analysis of AXR6:GFP localization during leaf development (Supplemental Fig. S5, P–T). In contrast to other auxin signaling (DR5rev) or vascular (PIN1, ATHB8) markers (see above), specific procambial expression of AXR6:GFP was not seen in leaf primordia earlier than 5 das (Supplemental Fig. S5Q). As leaf development proceeded, AXR6:GFP was restricted to vascular tissues (Supplemental Fig. S5, R–T). In addition, we obtained similar NPA-dependent patterns of AXR6:GFP to those previously found for AXR6pro:GUS (Supplemental Fig. S5S). To investigate whether the precise regulation of SCF function is essential for leaf development and vein patterning, we examined the interaction of icu13 with mutations affecting genes that regulate the covalent modification of CUL1 by RUB. We obtained double mutant combinations of either icu13 or eta1 with axr1-12 (CITATION), hve-2 (CITATION), rce1-10 (this work), and csn5a-2 (CITATION; Fig. 6A), loss-of-function mutations that affect RUB modification of CUL1 (see introduction). [[FIGURE]] The axr1-12 and hve-2 mutants display reduced venation pattern complexity and leaf size compared with their wild-type counterparts (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We found a transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion in the first intron of RCE1 that reduced its expression to 6% of the wild-type level (Supplemental Fig. S6), and we named this allele rce1-10. Leaves of homozygous rce1-10 plants were slightly hyponastic (Fig. 6A) and normally sized, but they exhibited reduced venation density and number of branching points veins per millimeter squared (Fig. 6B; Table I). Leaves of the csn5a-2 mutant were of reduced size but with a venation density and number of branching points per millimeter squared similar to those of Col-0. The number of free-ending veins per venation length, however, was significantly decreased in csn5a-2 mutant leaves compared with those of Col-0 (Fig. 6B; Table I). All the double mutant combinations of axr1-12, hve-2, rce1-10, or csn5a-2 with icu13 or eta1 (Supplemental Tables S3 and S4) shared a seedling-lethal phenotype that we interpreted as synergistic (Fig. 6, C–F). These double mutants strongly resembled homozygous axr6-1 and axr6-2 (CITATION), mp (CITATION), or bdl (CITATION) single mutants, with a lack of roots and hypocotyls, strong defects in vein differentiation, and only incipient leaf development. Since this more-than-additive phenotype showed variable expressivity, we classified the embryo-lethal double mutants into five phenotypic classes, from strong (nongerminated seeds) to weak (seedlings developing more than two leaves; Fig. 6, C–F; Supplemental Table S3). However, no clear pattern emerged from our phenotypic classification that would allow us to make conclusions on differences in the strength of the genetic interactions found. We further dissected siliques from F2 plants that were homozygous for icu13 and heterozygous for axr1-12, rce1-10, csn5a-2, or hve-2, and vice versa. All double mutant embryos for all four genetic combinations displayed failures in the division of the hypophysis and hypophysis-derived cells, giving rise to embryonic phenotypes (Fig. 6, G, H, J, and K) similar to those previously observed in homozygotes for loss-of-function mp (CITATION) or gain-of-function bdl (CITATION) and axr6 (CITATION) mutations. The most extreme double mutant phenotypes that we found were in some cases more severe than those usually observed in mp, bdl, axr6-1, and axr6-2 homozygotes (Fig. 6, I and L). In summary, we found genetic interactions between loss-of-function alleles of AXR6 and four genes required to regulate SCF activity by the rubylation-derubylation pathway, suggesting that both activation and inhibition of CUL1 by RUB attachment and release, respectively, are essential for proper SCF function. The main role of the SCFTIR1/AFB1-3 complex is the ubiquitin-mediated destabilization of Aux/IAA repressors, which are negative regulators of auxin signaling (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). We next examined the interaction of icu13 and eta1 with hypermorphic alleles of Aux/IAA genes, such as the dominant shy2-10 (this work; see “Materials and Methods”) and axr2-1 (CITATION; Supplemental Table S5) or the semidominant axr3-3 (CITATION) and icu6 (CITATION; CITATION) alleles (Supplemental Table S6). All plants of the eight double mutant genotypes analyzed were dwarfed and exhibited compact rosettes, with leaves of reduced size and increased hyponasty compared with their single mutant siblings (Fig. 7A), phenotypes that we interpreted as additive. Leaves of the shy2-10 and axr2-1 mutants were reduced in size, but their vascular phenotypes were similar to the wild type, the only exception being an increased number of free-ending veins per mm of venation (Table I). The shy2-10 icu13, shy2-10 eta1, axr2-1 icu13, and axr2-1 eta1 double mutants displayed additive venation phenotypes, as we found a significant reduction in their leaf area and intermediate values in vascular complexity traits compared with those seen in both single mutants alone (Fig. 7B; Table I). All the double mutant combinations, including a loss-of-function allele of AXR6 and a gain-of-function allele of SHY2, AXR2, or AXR3, were viable and fertile, in contrast to the interactions that we observed between loss-of-function alleles of AXR6 and AXR1, HVE/CAND1, RCE1, or CSN5A (Fig. 6). [[FIGURE]] As we mentioned in the introduction, seedlings homozygous for bdl, a semidominant, gain-of-function allele of BDL, do not develop basal structures due to defective early hypophysis specification (CITATION; Fig. 8, A and G), a phenotype that is similar to that caused by strong loss-of-function alleles of MP (CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 8I). We found this phenotype to be reminiscent of that caused by strong loss of SCF function either directly (strong loss- and gain-of-function alleles of AXR6; Fig. 3) or indirectly (mutations affecting the regulators of SCF activity; Fig. 6). In our standard growth conditions, bdl/BDL heterozygotes (Fig. 8B) displayed a leaf incurvature similar to that seen in icu13 and eta1 homozygotes. In light of our finding that icu13 and eta1 do not interact with gain-of-function alleles of some Aux/IAA genes (Fig. 7), the dose-dependent phenotype of the bdl allele suggested to us that the leaf and vascular phenotypes of icu13 and eta1 primarily arise from the stabilization of BDL, whose levels are known to be precisely titrated during embryogenesis for proper specification of embryonic basal structures (CITATION). In several F2 families derived from selfed AXR6/icu13;bdl/BDL and AXR6/eta1;bdl/BDL plants, we found more rootless, early-lethal seedlings than expected, a significant proportion of which were heterozygous for the bdl mutation and homozygous for either icu13 (21%; n = 24; Fig. 8C) or eta1 (12.5%; n = 24; Fig. 8D). About one-quarter of the F2 seeds studied did not germinate, and as no double mutant was found among the germinated seedlings, we hypothesize that icu13 bdl and eta1 bdl double homozygotes might have an embryo-lethal phenotype. We then dissected siliques from AXR6/icu13;bdl/BDL and AXR6/AXR6;bdl/BDL selfed plants to visualize the embryonic phenotypes of the offspring by DIC microscopy. In all cases, wild-type embryos were found in siliques from homozygous icu13 and eta1 plants (Fig. 8, E and F), as expected since these mutations do not alter the root initiation program during embryogenesis. Moreover, whereas bdl/bdl embryos only display weak phenotypes derived from hypophysis misspecification (Fig. 8, G and H), putative icu13 bdl double homozygote embryos show more severe defects, such as apparently twin embryos (Fig. 8, K and L) or embryos displaying strong division defects and overproliferation in the suspensor (Fig. 8, L–N). Similar embryo-lethal phenotypes were found in the progeny of AXR6/eta1;bdl/BDL selfed plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] BDL is known to interact with and inhibit the MP transcription factor, which is required for basal patterning of embryos and vascular development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To confirm that the genetic interaction found between AXR6 and BDL is mediated by MP, we crossed the weak mp-S319 allele (CITATION) to icu13 or eta1. As described previously, only 7% to 14% of the progeny from MP/mp-S319 plants were rootless, due to incomplete penetrance (CITATION). Several F3 families obtained by selfing icu13/icu13;MP/mp-S319 and eta1/eta1;MP/mp-S319 plants included a number of rootless seedlings (3%–9%; n = 803), lower than that of the expected double mutants (7%–14%). To unequivocally identify the icu13 mp-S319 and eta1 mp-S319 double mutant phenotypes, we quantified the number of abortive seeds in the siliques of icu13/icu13;MP/mp-S319 (n = 30 from 109 seeds) and eta1/eta1;MP/mp-S319 (data not shown) plants. We then determined the embryonic phenotypes by DIC microscopy. We found abnormal cell divisions in the hypophysis and hypophysis-derived cells in homozygous mp-S319 embryos (Fig. 8, I and J) as described previously (CITATION). All the abortive seeds contained dead embryos with mutant phenotypes of different degrees of severity, some of which are shown in Figure 8, O to Q. We reasoned that the icu13 phenotype might be caused by the inactivation of MP caused by the stabilization of its Aux/IAA repressor, BDL, as a consequence of partial inactivation of the SCFTIR1/AFB1-3 complex (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). To test our hypothesis, we obtained 10 icu13 and nine En-2 transgenic lines expressing the BDLpro:BDL:GFP construct, which were used to study BDL stabilization. We found faint expression of the BDL:GFP protein in the central region of primary roots in young En-2 seedlings (Fig. 8R), which is indicative of rapid protein turnover via 26S proteasome degradation (CITATION). Consistent with a reduced function of SCFTIR1/AFB1-3 in the icu13 mutants (see above), we found an accumulation of BDL:GFP in the vascular domain of the root meristem in icu13 plants (Fig. 8T). To confirm that BDL:GFP accumulation in icu13 is earlier and independent of proteasome function, we incubated young seedlings in the presence of MG132, a proteasome inhibitor (CITATION). We found that a short MG132 treatment increased the accumulation of BDL:GFP in wild-type roots (Fig. 8, S and V), whereas no significant differences were found between icu13 roots treated or not with MG132 (Fig. 8, U and V). BDL:GFP was found mainly in the nucleus of abaxial pavement cells of cleared icu13 leaf primordia (Supplemental Fig. S7, A–C), whereas no BDL:GFP signal was found in wild-type leaves (data not shown). We discarded the idea that the stronger signal of BDL:GFP was caused by overexpression of the BDL gene in the icu13 background, by quantifying BDL expression (Supplemental Fig. S7D). These results are consistent with the hypothesis that BDL:GFP accumulates in the icu13 mutant due to a defective SCFTIR1/AFB1-3 function, which is upstream of proteasomal degradation. Taken together, the genetic interactions found between AXR6, BDL, and MP suggest that the regulatory pathway involving these three genes is mainly responsible for the specification of embryonic basal structures and for the specification of postembryonic vascular tissues and that tight regulation of BDL activity through auxin-mediated SCF regulation is required. To investigate if the phenotype of icu13 depends on the MP-BDL module, we assessed to what extent it can be modified by MP overexpression and obtained independent T1 lines carrying the 35Spro:MP transgene (CITATION) in the icu13 (n = 24) and En-2 (n = 4) backgrounds. In 10 35Spro:MP icu13 T2 families, we observed segregation for a mild leaf hyponasty phenotype, clearly distinguishable from that of the icu13 homozygotes (Fig. 9A). In all cases (n = 13), plants with this phenotype were icu13/icu13 and carried the 35Spro:MP construct, likely as homozygotes. We confirmed further this partial rescue in T3 35Spro:MP families that exhibited a mild leaf incurvature and found that all were transgenic for the 35Spro:MP construct and homozygous for the icu13 mutation (Fig. 9B). [[FIGURE]] As BDL accumulated to higher levels in icu13 (Fig. 8, R–V), we hypothesized that a stronger phenotypic suppression might be achieved with a lack-of-function allele of BDL. We crossed icu13 and eta1 to the iaa12-1 mutant (CITATION; this work), which bears a T-DNA insertion in the second exon of BDL, abolishing its expression (Supplemental Fig. S8). In the F2 progeny, the icu13/icu13;iaa12-1/iaa12-1 double mutants exhibited only weak leaf hyponasty (Fig. 9C), likely as a consequence of suppression of the phenotype of icu13 by the lack of function of BDL. This observation was confirmed by genotyping in the F3 progeny of selfed icu13/icu13;BDL/iaa12-1 F2 plants. Similar results were obtained in the F2 and F3 generations derived from an eta1 × iaa12-1 cross (data not shown). Taken together, our results suggest that the leaf incurvature of icu13 is caused by the loss of MP activity due to the accumulation of its repressor BDL. We quantified the partial suppression carried out by the 35Spro:MP transgene and the iaa12-1 null mutant over some icu13 phenotypes. The number of lateral roots was significantly higher in icu13 iaa12-1 double mutants (Supplemental Fig. S9A). Regarding auxin responsiveness, both icu13 35Spro:MP and icu13 iaa12-1 were more sensitive to endogenous auxin than icu13 but less than the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S9B). Although icu13 35Spro:MP leaf size was similar to that of Col-0, the venation density of icu13 35Spro:MP leaves was not significantly different from icu13. The number of free-ending veins per venation length, however, was significantly lower in icu13 35Spro:MP leaves than in icu13 (Fig. 9D; Table I). While in the icu13 iaa12-1 double mutants, leaf size was not rescued, their vein phenotypes (venation density, number of branching points per millimeter squared, and number of free-ending veins per venation length) were significantly different from those of icu13 and more similar to those of their wild type (Fig. 9D; Table I). Taken together, both MP overexpression and a null allele of BDL restore most of the phenotypic defects caused by the icu13 mutation, suggesting that the MP-BDL module is responsible for some of the icu13 phenotypes studied.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants studied in this work are homozygous for the mutations indicated unless otherwise stated. The Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) provided seeds of the icu13 mutant (NASC stock code N349), which was donated to the Arabidopsis Information Service Form Mutants collection by A.R. Kranz (CITATION; CITATION). The eta1 (CITATION), axr6-2/AXR6 (CITATION), AXR6/cul1-1 and AXR6/cul1-2 (CITATION), bdl/BDL (CITATION), and MP/mp-S319 (CITATION) seeds were kindly provided upon request by the scientists mentioned in “Acknowledgments.” Seeds of the hve-2 (SALK_099479; N599479; CITATION), axr1-12 (N3076; CITATION), axr2-1 (N3077; CITATION), and axr3-3 (N57505; CITATION) mutants and of the wild-type accessions En-2, Col-0, and Landsberg erecta were also obtained from the NASC. shy2-10 (previously named icu5 [N379]; CITATION, CITATION) contains a mutation identical to shy2-3 (CITATION) in the En-2 background (this work). We previously described a few aspects of the icu6 allele of AXR3 (CITATION; CITATION). The rce1-10 (GK-394B06; N437746), csn5a-2 (SALK_027705; N527705; CITATION), and iaa12-1 (SALK_138684; N638684 [it contains the same insertion as N25213]; CITATION) T-DNA insertion lines were obtained from the NASC and are described at the SIGnAL Web site (http://signal.salk.edu/). We confirmed the presence and positions of all T-DNA insertions by PCR amplification using the gene-specific primer pairs listed in Supplemental Table S1 and the left border primers of the T-DNA insertion as indicated. Lines carrying the DR5rev:GFP, PIN1pro:PIN1:GFP, and ATHB8pro:GUS transgenes have been described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Plants were grown under sterile conditions on 150-mm petri dishes containing 100 mL of one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium with 1% Suc at 20°C ± 1°C, 60% to 70% relative humidity, and continuous illumination at approximately 80 μmol m−2 s−1, as described by CITATION. To study the effects of exogenous auxin on root growth, seedlings were grown for 4 d on vertically oriented plates containing MS medium and then transferred to plates containing MS medium supplemented with 0, 50, 100, or 200 nm IAA (Sigma-Aldrich) that were kept vertically oriented for 6 d before their root phenotypes were scored. To study the effects of NPA, seedlings were grown on standard plates containing 0 or 1 μm NPA (Sigma-Aldrich). A single colon is used to indicate promoter-coding sequence fusions and fusions of coding sequences. For the sake of clarity, a single colon indicates that a gene is driven by its native promoter. To construct the AXR6pro:GUS transgene, a 2.3-kb segment from the upstream region of the start codon of the AXR6 gene was PCR amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA with Phusion High-Fidelity DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes, Thermo Fisher Scientific). The PCR product obtained was purified with the Illustra GFX PCR DNA and Gel Band Purification Kit (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences) and then cloned into the pGEM-T Easy221 vector using the BP Clonase II kit (Life Technologies) as indicated by the manufacturer. Chemically competent Escherichia coli DH5α cells were transformed by the heat-shock method, and the orientation and structural integrity of the inserts carried by the transformants isolated were verified by sequencing. The target sequences were transferred via an LR Clonase II (Life Technologies) reaction to the pMDC163 Gateway-compatible destination vector containing the gusA gene (CITATION). For the AXR6pro:AXR6:GFP and BDLpro:BDL:GFP transgenes, 6.4- and 3.7-kb segments of the AXR6 and BDL genes, respectively, were amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA, cloned into pGEM-T Easy221, and subcloned into pMDC107, which harbors an in-frame version of the GFP6 gene (CITATION), using the Gateway technology as described above. All these constructs were mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (C58C1 RifR) cells, which were used to infect En-2, icu13, Col-0, and eta1 plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 transgenic plants were selected on plates supplemented with 15 µg mL−1 hygromycin B (Invitrogen). For the 35Spro:MP construct (CITATION), A. tumefaciens GV3101 cells were transformed with plasmid DNA, and the transformants were used to infect En-2 and icu13 plants. T1 seeds were sown on river sand watered with a 15 mg L−1 solution of BASTA (Finale; Bayer CropScience) as described by CITATION. Primers used in the PCR amplifications performed to obtain the AXR6pro:GUS, AXR6pro:AXR6:GFP, and BDLpro:BDL:GFP constructs are described in Supplemental Table S1, together with those used to genotype antibiotic- and herbicide-resistant T1 plants. For root growth studies, root images were obtained with a flatbed scanner. Root length was digitally measured (n ≥ 17 per genotype and hormone concentration tested) with the NIS Elements AR 2.30 image-analysis package (Nikon). Flowering time was scored by counting the number of icu13 and En-2 plants (n = 165 per genotype) that had a visible flowering stem at 17 to 27 das. Rosette leaf number was scored in the same plants at 21 das. To assay the degree of apical dominance in mutant and wild-type plants, we recorded the flowering stem number at 45 das. For embryo visualization, siliques from 6-week-old plants were manually excised and dissected, and their seeds were mounted in an 8:1:3 mix of chloral hydrate:glycerol:water and observed under DIC optics as described previously (CITATION). GUS staining of embryos was performed as described by CITATION. Rosette and leaf images were taken 16 and 21 das, respectively, with an MZ6 stereomicroscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a DXM1200 digital camera (Nikon Instruments). Leaf section micrographs were taken as described by CITATION. Venation morphometry was performed on diagrams that were obtained from micrographs of 10 cleared first-node leaves per genotype, as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). All data were analyzed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS 16.0.2) software, and their normality was assessed by Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests with Lilliefors correction. When the data fitted a normal distribution, Student’s t tests were used to compare mean values; otherwise, the nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test was used instead. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) images were obtained digitally and processed using the operation software EZ-C1 for a Nikon C1 confocal microscope (Nikon Instruments). GFP was excited at 488 nm with an argon ion laser, and its emission was analyzed between 515 and 530 nm. To visualize GFP from embryos and leaf primordia, chlorophyll was solubilized by incubating seedlings in 1:1 methanol:acetone for 30 min at −20°C and then transferring the samples to phosphate buffer, pH 6.8, prior to confocal microscopy. To avoid nonspecific fluorescence in the green channel, in some cases we also excited at 543 nm with a helium-neon laser and analyzed the emission between 605 and 675 nm, recording the nonspecific fluorescence in red. For CLSM micrographs of roots, we stained seedlings with a 10 μg mL−1 solution of propidium iodide (Sigma-Aldrich), which visualizes cell walls in the red channel. To confirm the nuclear localization of AXR6:GFP and BDL:GFP, we stained seedlings with a 10 μg mL−1 solution of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride (Sigma-Aldrich) for 5 min, washed them extensively with water, and further excited them at 408 nm with a modulated diode laser. All images from a given GFP marker at a defined time point were taken using the same CLSM settings. For comparison of GFP fluorescence from icu13 and wild-type seedlings, we used F2 or F3 siblings unless otherwise stated. To quantify BDL:GFP levels, 4-d-old seedlings from three En-2 and three icu13 T2 families carrying the BDLpro:BDL:GFP transgene were transferred to liquid MS medium supplemented with 50 μm MG132 (PeptaNova), a proteasome inhibitor, or 0.5% dimethyl sulfoxide (Sigma-Aldrich). After 6 h of incubation under standard experimental conditions, seedlings were washed three times for 5 min with liquid MS medium to remove residual dimethyl sulfoxide or MG132. CLSM images were then taken from propidium iodide-stained roots (see above) and processed using ImageJ as follows. First, the green channel of each CLSM image was converted to eight-bit format images using a defined threshold. Then, we selected an equivalent region of interest for each image, as a line drawn in the center of the root that extends from the quiescent center up to the elongation zone. A plot profile of the gray values along this line was recorded for each image, which positively correlates with the GFP intensity as described by CITATION. Arbitrary units were converted to percentages of GFP intensity, defining the 100% value as the mean of icu13 values. GFP intensity data were analyzed using SPSS by applying Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests with Lilliefors correction, and Student’s t tests were used to compare mean values. Protein samples were obtained from 30 to 40 seedlings collected at 6 das and extracted with buffer containing 100 mm Tris-HCl, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. SDS-PAGE was performed by adding 20 μL of each protein extract using the Mini-Protean Cell kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Electrotransfer to nitrocellulose membranes (Amersham, GE Healthcare) was performed as described in the Mini Trans-Blot Electrophoretic Transfer Cell (Bio-Rad) manual. We used anti-CUL1 (CITATION) at a 1:3,000 dilution as a primary antibody and anti-RbcL (Agrisera) at a 1:10,000 dilution as a loading control. A goat anti-rabbit IgG antibody with conjugated horseradish peroxidase (Agrisera) was used as a secondary antibody, which was detected with the Immun-Star HRP Chemiluminescent Kit (Bio-Rad) as described by the manufacturer and Lumi-Film Chemiluminescent Detection Films (Roche Diagnostics). Total RNA was extracted from 60 to 100 mg of rosette tissue collected 14 das using the citric acid method (CITATION). cDNA was reverse transcribed using Maxima Reverse Transcriptase (Fermentas, Thermo Fisher Scientific). Either Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Life Technologies) or Maxima SYBR Green qPCR Master Mix (Fermentas) kits were used as indicated in the manufacturers’ instructions. At least one oligonucleotide in each primer pair was designed to span the ends of two adjacent exons so that genomic DNA would not be amplified. Relative quantification of gene expression data was performed using the comparative threshold cycle method (CITATION). Each reaction was made using three biological replicates, each with three technical replicates; the expression levels were normalized to the cycle threshold values obtained for the housekeeping gene OTC (CITATION). Double mutant phenotypes caused by the combination of recessive mutations in two genes were independently confirmed in several F3 families derived from selfed F2 plants exhibiting the phenotype of one of the single mutant parents. In some cases, the putatively double mutant F3 seedlings were genotyped to confirm that they were double homozygotes, using the oligonucleotides shown in Supplemental Table S1. Genetic interactions of icu13 with dominant or semidominant mutations in Aux/IAA genes were analyzed in F2 plants, three of 16 of which exhibited the double mutant phenotype. To exclude phenotypes dependent on the genetic background, all the genetic interactions of icu13 were also assayed in parallel with eta1. The χ2 statistic was used to calculate two-tailed P values to test whether the observed phenotypic ratios fit expected segregations. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Missplicing caused by the icu13 mutation. Supplemental Figure S2. Alignment of human CUL1 and the two CUL1 proteins encoded by icu13. Supplemental Figure S3. Transverse sections from first-node leaves of En-2 and icu13. Supplemental Figure S4. Visualization of DR5rev:GFP expression in icu13 and eta1 roots. Supplemental Figure S5. Visualization of AXR6pro:GUS activity and AXR6:GFP localization in embryos and leaf primordia. Supplemental Figure S6. Molecular nature of rce1-10, a new hypomorphic allele of RCE1. Supplemental Figure S7. Expression of BDL:GFP in icu13 leaves and qRT-PCR analysis of BDL in transgenic BDLpro:BDL:GFP plants. Supplemental Figure S8. Molecular nature of iaa12-1 and its effects on BDL expression. Supplemental Figure S9. Partial suppression of auxin resistance in icu13 by gain of function of MP or loss of function of BDL. Supplemental Table S1. Primer sets used in this work. Supplemental Table S2. Seed phenotypes in the F1 progeny of axr6-2/AXR6 × AXR6/cul1 crosses. Supplemental Table S3. Lethality in single and double mutants. Supplemental Table S4. Phenotypic segregation in the F3 of crosses between mutants carrying loss-of-function alleles of AXR6 and genes of the rubylation-derubylation pathway. Supplemental Table S5. Phenotypic segregation in the F2 progeny of crosses between eta1 or icu13 and axr2-1 or shy2-10. Supplemental Table S6. Genotypic segregation in the F2 progeny of crosses between eta1 or icu13 and axr3-3 or icu6.
