!~ABS~! PA (phosphatidic acid) is a lipid second messenger involved in an array of processes occurring during a plant's life cycle. These include development, metabolism, and both biotic and abiotic stress responses. PA levels increase in response to salt, but little is known about its function in the earliest responses to salt stress. In the present study we have combined an approach to isolate peripheral membrane proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana roots with lipid-affinity purification, to identify putative proteins that interact with PA and are recruited to the membrane in response to salt stress. Of the 42 putative PA-binding proteins identified by MS, a set of eight new candidate PA-binding proteins accumulated at the membrane fraction after 7 min of salt stress. Among these were CHC (clathrin heavy chain) isoforms, ANTH (AP180 N-terminal homology) domain clathrin-assembly proteins, a putative regulator of potassium transport, two ribosomal proteins, GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and a PI (phosphatidylinositol) 4-kinase. PA binding and salt-induced membrane recruitment of GAPDH and CHC were confirmed by Western blot analysis of the cellular fractions. In conclusion, the approach of the present study is an effective way to isolate biologically relevant lipid-binding proteins and provides new leads in the study of PA-mediated salt-stress responses in roots.
!~RES~! To isolate the PA targets that are involved in salt-stress signalling, proteins that are not only recruited to the membrane upon salt treatment (Figure 1A), but also show binding affinity for PA beads, were isolated (Figure 1B). Salt-induced increases in PA formation are fast and transient, typically occurring within 5–15 min [CITATION,CITATION]. By applying salt stress for only 7 min, we focused on those proteins that are relocalized to the membrane, rather than proteins that were induced at the level of expression. Isolated proteins were digested with trypsin while still bound to the PA beads and subsequently peptides were identified and quantified using two different proteomic approaches: iTRAQ labelling of peptides and label-free MS analysis (Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] Hydroponically grown 28 day-old Arabidopsis Col-0 plants were transferred to salt (150 mM) or to control media for 7 min, after which the root material was harvested, homogenized and the proteins extracted. To isolate the PMPs from the root tissue, a differential centrifugation approach was applied. The flowscheme of the centrifugation steps used to isolate the PMPs is shown in Supplementary Figure S1. The quality of the fractionation was determined by Western blot analysis of the different fractions using antibodies raised against different cellular compartment markers: PM (ATPase), MitM (COXII), PMP (V-ATPase) and a cytosolic marker (UGPase) (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] First, the total crude protein extracts of control and salt-treated roots were centrifuged at 10000 g for 10 min to remove the cell debris and intact organelles, and the resulting pellets were enriched with the MitM, and to a lesser extent with the PMP and PM, marker. The 50000 g crude pellet fractions contained the PM and PMP, and to a lesser extent the MitM marker, whereas little of the cytosolic marker (UGPase) was detectable. The 50000 g crude pellet fractions were subsequently washed with a buffer supplemented with 0.1% Brij-58, which inverts liposome-like structures, to release trapped hydrophilic contaminants [CITATION]. In this Brij-58 wash the remaining cytosolic proteins were released, yielding a fraction containing only peripheral and transmembrane proteins. Peripherally associated proteins were subsequently eluted from the membranes using protein isolation buffer supplemented with 100 mM Na2CO3, resulting in PMP fractions that exclusively contained the PMP marker. PA-binding proteins or proteins that interact with the membrane in a PA-dependent manner were purified from the PMP fraction of both the control and salt-treated samples using PA beads. The PA beads have already been shown to be effective in isolation of PA targets [CITATION,CITATION] and validated in the present study to purify proteins in a PA-dependent manner (Supplementary Figure S2 at http://www.biochemj.org/bj/450/bj4500573add.htm). Protein profiles of the total extract, the 50000 g pellet, the PMP fraction and the PAbinding fractions of the control and salt-treated roots were visualized using silver staining (Figure 3). Clear differences in the protein compositions between the different fractions were observed. The proportion of the total amount of proteins remaining in the sequential fractions was determined through protein quantification. The 50000 g crude pellet consisted of 5% of the total protein extract and the PMP fraction consisted of 2.5% of the 50000 g crude pellet. The PA-binding protein pool made up 5% of the PMP fraction, equivalent to 1/15000 of the total proteins. [[FIGURE]] When comparing the control and salt-treated samples of each fraction, no clear differences in individual protein abundances were detectable in either the total, the 50000 g pellet or the PMP fraction. Only in the PA-binding protein fraction were differences in abundance observed between the control and the salt-treated sample (Figure 3). To identify and quantify the PA-binding proteins, they were tryptically digested directly on the PA beads and identified by two different quantitative gel-free MS methods. In total three independent biological replicates were performed on the roots of 160 plants per sample per experiment. For two experiments, the resulting PA-binding peptides obtained by tryptic digestion were labelled with iTRAQ, whereas one replicate was analysed using label-free MSE quantitation. The total number of peptides, proteins and proteins enriched in the salt-treated samples for either the iTRAQ-labelled or label-free approach are summarized in Figure 4(A). More peptides and proteins were identified in the label-free approach, but this did not result in the identification of more proteins that were differentially abundant in the salt-stimulated sample. The combined data represent proteins identified in at least two of the independent replicate studies. [[FIGURE]] The ratios between the average protein abundances in the salt- and the control-treated sample of the 42 proteins identified are shown in Figure 4(B). The proteins are arranged according to their S/C (salt-treated/control) ratio, starting with the largest enrichment in the salt-stressed sample. Most proteins were present in similar quantities in both the control and the salt-treated samples. A total of eight of the 42 identified proteins (Supplementary Table S1) were enriched in the salt-treated sample (S/C>2Log 0.5), whereas no proteins were enriched in the control-treated sample using a 2Log 0.5 threshold. The S/C ratio of the eight proteins enriched in the salt-stimulated samples is shown in Figure 4(C) and Table 1. The eight proteins identified have been described as involved in various cellular processes. The identification of KAB1 (potassium channel β subunit 1) implicates a role for PA in the maintenance of potassium homoeostasis in saline conditions. In addition, CHC isoforms and two clathrin assembly proteins were increased in the salt-stressed sample. Furthermore, two isoforms of GAPDH and two ribosomal proteins were targeted to the membrane in response to salt, as was a PI4Kγ (phosphoinositide 4-kinase γ). The abundance of two prominent membrane-targeted candidate PA-binding proteins, CHC and GAPDH, was determined in the different fractions including the PA-binding fraction using specific antibodies (Figure 5). As shown above (Figure 2), the PM marker was enriched in the 50000 g pellet fraction, whereas the PMP marker was strongly enriched in the 50000 g pellet and present in the PMP pool. The PMP marker could not be detected in the PA-binding protein pool. The latter fraction did contain both CHC and GAPDH (Figure 5), confirming their identification by MS as PA-binding proteins. Importantly, salt stress increased CHC and GAPDH abundance in the PMP and the PA-binding fractions of root extracts. This confirmed salt-induced recruitment of both proteins to the membrane and illustrated the reliability of the purification and identification procedure for PA-binding proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown hydroponically (Araponics) for 4 weeks under short-day conditions (130 μmol/m−2/s, light/dark: 10/14 h, 21°C/70% humidity) with a weekly change of growth medium using the Flora series (General Hydroponics Europe). At 24 h prior to stimulation the plants were transferred to fresh medium. For each MS sample 160 plants were used. Hydroponically grown Arabidopsis plants were treated by transfer to salt-containing or control medium. The roots were subsequently excised and thereafter drained of excess water, harvested and snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen. A simplified version of the fractionation has originally been described previously [CITATION]. The root tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen and proteins were isolated by incubating the tissue in 1 volume of protein extraction buffer [50 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 300 mM sucrose, 5 mM EDTA, 5 mM EGTA, 2 mM DTT (dithiothreitol) and 1× Complete™ protease inhibitors; Boehringer Ingelheim] for 10 min on ice. Samples were filtered through Miracloth (EMD Millipore) and centrifuged twice at 1500 g for 5 min (debris) and subsequently up to six times at 10000 g to remove debris and intact organelles. Membranes were isolated by spinning for 2 h at 50000 g (50000 g crude pellet). The membranes were washed by homogenizing the pellet using protein extraction buffer with 0.1% Brij-58 (Sigma–Aldrich) [CITATION]. Membranes were again spun down at 50000 g for 1 h. The pellet fraction was washed twice in protein extraction buffer (without Brij-58) and spun down. The peripheral membrane proteins were eluted using protein isolation buffer supplemented with 100 mM Na2CO3 by homogenizing the samples and keeping them on ice for 10 min. An overview of all the centrifugation steps and the origin of all fractions described is given in Supplementary Figure S1 (at http://www.biochemj.org/bj/450/bj4500573add.htm). The antibodies raised against specific protein markers were obtained from Agrisera: anti-[PM (plasma membrane) ATPase] (TAIR ID At2g18960), anti-[MitM (mitochondrial membrane) COXII (cytochrome c oxidase subunit II)] (TAIR ID Atmg00160), anti-[PMP (peripheral membrane protein) V-ATPase (vacuolar ATPase)] (TAIR ID At4g11150), anti-[cytosolic UGPase (UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase)] (raised against barley), anti-CHC (clathrin heavy chain; TAIR ID At3g11130). The anti-GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) antibody has been described previously [CITATION]. Silver staining of the different fractions was performed as a loading control. The PA-binding assay was conducted as described [CITATION] (F. McLoughlin and C. Testerink, unpublished work). As starting material 5 μg of protein from the PMP fraction was used (approximately 500 μl) per sample. The soluble fraction was transferred to a new 2 ml Eppendorf tube and was supplemented with lysis buffer [150 mM Tris/HCl (pH 8.0), 50 mM KCl, 10 mM EDTA and 1% IGEPAL CA-630 (Sigma–Aldrich)] and complete protease inhibitors (Boehringer Ingelheim) to a total volume of 1.9 ml. A total of 50 μl of PA beads (net volume) were used per sample. Additionally, the beads were washed twice with Hepes (100 mM, pH 8.0) after the described washing steps to remove the majority of the Tween 20. For the specificity control experiments, Arabidopsis total protein extract was tested for binding to either the control or PA-coupled Affigel beads, that were treated identically except for the addition of PA to the coupling reaction. Synthesis of the PA beads has been described previously [CITATION]. The PA beads with the bound proteins from the control and stress-related conditions were reduced with 5 mM DTT for 30 min at 60°C before carbamidomethylation by 15 mM iodoacetamide for 30 min at room temperature (21°C) in the dark, both reactions were carried out in 50 mM Hepes (pH 8.0). With a typical volume of 50 μl the beads could easily be resuspended in the buffer and the reaction chemicals. An overnight digestion with 2 μg of trypsin (Gold, Promega) was performed at 37°C with continuous mixing. The supernatant containing tryptic peptides was collected after centrifugation at 10000 g for 5 min in a table-top centrifuge. The procedure was repeated once by washing the beads with 50 μl of Hepes buffer and both supernatants were mixed together. For label-free quantification the samples were prepared for LC (liquid chromatography)-MS by the HILIC (hydrophilic interaction LC) cleaning method. The collected supernatants of the samples were dried for 1 h in a centrifugal vacuum concentrator at 35°C. The dried samples were reconstituted with dissolution buffer from the iTRAQ kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Applied Biosystems). The control samples were labelled with iTRAQ 114 and the salt-treated samples with iTRAQ 117 according to the manufacturer's protocol. The samples were incubated at room temperature for 3 h and subsequently the control and salt-treated samples were mixed in a 1:1 ratio and prepared for LC-MS by the HILIC cleaning method. The samples were diluted with ACN (acetonitrile) to a final concentration of 95% ACN. For the peptide enrichment TT2HIL TopTips (Glygen) were used in combination with the centrifuge adaptor, a microcentrifuge and a 2 ml Eppendorf vial. The samples were spun down for 1 min at 1500 g. Before using the TopTips, they were washed three times with 0.1% TFA (trifluoroacetic acid) followed by three times with 95% ACN. The samples were loaded with consecutive 100 μl portions on the HILIC TopTip followed by a three washes with 95% ACN. The peptides were collected in 30 μl of 0.1% TFA and stored at −20°C. Nanoscale LC separation of the tryptic peptides was performed with a NanoAcquity system (Waters). Samples were loaded on to a Symmetry C18 5 μm, 2 cm×180 μm trap column (Waters) at a flow rate of 5 μl/min prior to separation on a Bridged Ethyl Hybrid C18 1.7 μm, 25 cm×75 μm analytical reversed-phase column (Waters) by application of a 90 min gradient from 1% ACN and 0.1% formic acid to 40% ACN and 0.1% formic acid at a column flow rate of 0.25 μl/min. Analysis of the eluted tryptic peptides was performed using a Synapt G2 Q-TOF (quadrupole time-of-flight) mass spectrometer (Waters) equipped with a nanolockspray source (Waters) fitted with a pico-tip emitter (New Objective) operated at a capillary voltage of approximately 3 kV. The collision gas used was argon, maintained at a constant pressure of 2.0×10−3 mbar (1 bar=100 kPa) in the collision cell. The lock mass, [Glu1]fibrinopeptide B, was delivered from the auxiliary pump of the NanoAcquity system with a concentration of 100 fmol/μl at 0.5 μl/min to the reference sprayer of the nanolockspray source. The data were post-acquisition lock-mass corrected using the monoisotopic mass of the doubly charged precursor of [Glu1]fibrinopeptide B, delivered through the reference sprayer, which was sampled every 120 s. For the label-free experiments accurate mass precursor and fragment ion LC-MS data were collected in the data independent LC-MSE mode of acquisition [CITATION]. For the iTRAQ -labelled samples LC-MS data was collected in the tandem MS data-dependent mode of acquisition. In addition, iTRAQ-labelled samples were separated on a reversed-phase capillary column (150 mm×75 μm PepMap C18; LC Packings). Sample introduction and mobile phase delivery at 300 nl/min were performed using an Ultimate nano-LC-system (Dionex). For separation of peptides, a gradient from 0% ACN and 0.1% formic acid to 50% ACN and 0.1% formic acid over 60 min was used. The eluted peptides were electrosprayed into a Q-TOF mass spectrometer (Waters). The most abundant ions from the survey spectrum, ranging from m/z 350 to 1500, were automatically selected for collision-induced fragmentation in a data-dependent mode of acquisition using Masslynx (Waters). Fragmentation was conducted with argon as the collision gas at a pressure of 4×10−5 bars, measured on the quadrupole pressure gauge. Three biological replicates were performed in total. Two biological replicates were analysed using iTRAQ labelling. These samples were twice injected on the Q-TOF and once on the Synapt G2 mass spectrometer and the average values were used for quantification. The third biological replicate was analysed label-free. Each sample was injected three times on the Synapt G2 mass spectrometer and the average values were used for quantification. The raw data files of the data-dependent acquisitions of the iTRAQ-labelled samples were processed with Mascot distiller using different parameters for the Q-TOF- and Synapt G2-generated data, because of differences in resolution and peak width between the two mass spectrometers. The distiller output results were used to search the Arabidopsis database (UniProt release 2010-12-16) to which common protein contaminants were appended using in-house licensed Mascot software (version 2.3.02). The Mascot search parameters were as follows: peptide and fragment error tolerances=0.3 Da, ions-score cut-off=12, digest reagent was trypsin, allow 1 ‘missed cleavage’, and the fixed modifications were cysteine carbamidomethylation and iTRAQ(K), iTRAQ(N-term). The individual peptide score for this database (P<0.05) was 35. After evaluation of the output list the search was repeated with the same parameters, but now with quantification iTraq 4plex activated for a ratio include of 114/117. Continuum LC-MSE data were processed and searched using ProteinLynx GlobalSERVER version 2.5 (PLGS 2.5, Waters). The parameter settings were: the digest reagent was trypsin, allow 1 ‘missed cleavage’, search tolerances automatic, typically 5 p.p.m. for precursor and 15 p.p.m. for product ions, the fixed modification was cysteine carbamidomethylation, and the variable modification was methionine oxidation. Protein identifications were obtained by searching an A. thaliana database (UniProt release 2012_03) to which common protein contaminants were appended. The estimation of the false positive identification rates was performed by searching a randomized version of the abovementioned A. thaliana protein database generated within PLGS 2.5. Peptide identification data were exported as.csv files and imported into Excel (Microsoft) with the ASAP-utilities add-on installed (Zwolle). For the label-free identification, peptide identification data were filtered, so only the peptides identified in at least two out of three replicate injections of a sample were deemed as reliable identifications. Using this strict criterion no peptides from the decoy database were identified. Subsequently the signal intensities (area under the peak) reported by PGLS 2.5 per injection were normalized by the sum of the signal intensities of all of the identified peptides in that injection. Following normalization the average of the replicate injections were calculated and the ratio was calculated for salt/control for each individual peptide identified. Using a pivot table, the average ratio, S.D., number of peptides and number of proteotypic peptides per protein were extracted. Proteins which did not have proteotypic peptides for which the peptides identified more than three different homologues were filtered out to create the final protein quantification table from the LC-MSE data. The protein quantification data obtained from the iTRAQ-labelled samples were combined with the label-free LC-MSE data, and only proteins quantified in at least two out of three samples are reported in Figure 4, Table 1 and Supplementary Table S1 (at http://www.biochemj.org/bj/450/bj4500573add.htm). [[TABLE]]
