!~ABS~! Plant inflorescence meristems and floral meristems possess specific boundary domains that result in proper floral organ separation and specification. HANABA TARANU (HAN) encodes a boundary-expressed GATA3-type transcription factor that regulates shoot meristem organization and flower development in Arabidopsis thaliana, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Through time-course microarray analyses following transient overexpression of HAN, we found that HAN represses hundreds of genes, especially genes involved in hormone responses and floral organ specification. Transient overexpression of HAN also represses the expression of HAN and three other GATA3 family genes, HANL2 (HAN-LIKE 2), GNC (GATA, NITRATE-INDUCIBLE, CARBON-METABOLISM-INVOLVED), and GNL (GNC-LIKE), forming a negative regulatory feedback loop. Genetic analysis indicates that HAN and the three GATA3 family genes coordinately regulate floral development, and their expression patterns are partially overlapping. HAN can homodimerize and heterodimerize with the three proteins encoded by these genes, and HAN directly binds to its own promoter and the GNC promoter in vivo. These findings, along with the fact that constitutive overexpression of HAN produces an even stronger phenotype than the loss-of-function mutation, support the hypothesis that HAN functions as a key repressor that regulates floral development via regulatory networks involving genes in the GATA3 family, along with genes involved in hormone action and floral organ specification.
!~RES~! To dissect the molecular function of HAN, we performed time-course transcriptome analysis using a full-genome microarray, after the transient induction of HAN activity in p35S:HAN-GR plants, the same line as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, the p35S:HAN-GR line was constructed by inserting the full-length cDNA of HAN (no stop codon) into the pGreen 0229 vector containing a 2X35S promoter, a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) fragment (conferring resistance to dexamethasone [DEX]), and a nopaline synthase terminator (CITATION). Plants were treated with 10 μM DEX, and inflorescences containing flower buds from stages 1 to 9 were collected for microarray assays from plants at 4, 12, and 72 h after the initial DEX treatments and corresponding mock treatments. We identified 2074 genes that showed significantly differential expression (P < 0.001 and fold change > 2 or < −2) under DEX treatment in at least one of the three time points (q < 0.009) (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Although the numbers of upregulated genes and downregulated genes were similar after 72 h of induction, downregulated genes outnumbered upregulated genes significantly at the early time points of HAN induction. The numbers of upregulated genes were 253 and 282, and the numbers of downregulated genes were 515 and 774 after 4- and 12-h treatments, respectively. Moreover, there are many more shared downregulated genes than upregulated genes (88 shared up versus 444 shared down) (Figures 1A and 1B). To further understand the dynamic trend of these RNA abundances after HAN induction, we clustered genes with similar expression patterns across the three time points. As shown in Figure 1C, genes that showed differential expression in at least one time point can be grouped into five clusters. Genes in clusters 1 and 5 were downregulated in the HAN induction samples compared with the controls, whereas genes in the other three clusters were upregulated. Cluster 1 genes are repressed, and cluster 3 genes are activated only at 72 h, suggesting that these are probably late effects of HAN induction. Cluster 2 genes were induced only at 4 h and later returned to their normal expression levels, indicating that they may be stress-responsive genes. By contrast, clusters 4 and 5 likely reveal the specific mechanisms of HAN-mediated transcriptional regulation. Cluster 4 genes were weakly upregulated at 4 h, reached highest induction at 12 h, and returned to weak upregulation at 72 h. Cluster 5 genes were greatly repressed at 4 h and maintained this repression later on, suggesting that these genes may be the direct targets of HAN. Cluster 5 is the biggest group and accounts for over 40% of all the differentially expressed genes (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online), implicating HAN as a master repressor that downregulates the transcription of a large numbers of genes. [[FIGURE]] To verify the differentially expressed genes identified by microarray, we performed quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) using independently generated DEX-treated versus mock-treated p35S:HAN-GR flowers (Table 1). Among the 20 genes we tested, 16 genes showed the same differential expression in the DEX-treated sample, and the other four genes also displayed the same patterns as those observed in microarray analysis, although the quantitative fold change in the qRT-PCR experiment was smaller than a twofold cutoff. The qRT-PCR and microarray data exhibited close agreement (Pearson correlation coefficient was 0.80, P = 1.4E-05) in the fold change between DEX-treated and mock-treated samples, indicating that the microarray data are reliable. To analyze the functions of the differentially expressed genes upon HAN induction, we performed Gene Ontology (GO) term enrichment analysis for each cluster. In addition to the metabolic and stress-related pathways that were identified in all clusters, hormone action and floral organ regulators are significantly enriched in cluster 5 (Figure 1D, Tables 2 and 3; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The most significantly enriched GO term is “response to auxin stimulus” (P < 10−14). Accordingly, lists of three well-known groups of early auxin-responsive genes including the auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA), the small auxin-up RNA (SAUR), and the GH3 gene families are differentially expressed upon HAN overexpression (CITATION) (Figure 1D, Table 2). IAAs and SAURs are generally repressed, while GH3s are induced by HAN overexpression. For example, the expression of IAA16 and SAUR68 decreases 5.3- and 4.4-fold, respectively, and the expression of GH3 family genes YADOKARI1 (YDK1) and GH3.5 increases 3.2- and 3.6-fold, respectively, upon 4 h DEX-induced HAN treatment (Table 2). We verified the repression of IAA16 and the induction of GH3.5 by quantitative PCR (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The expression of IAA16 showed no change in han mutants versus wild-type plants, while GH3.5 RNA is reduced in the HAN null allele han-1 (8.8-fold decrease) (see Supplemental Table 1 online), suggesting that GH3.5 but not IAA16 may be a direct target of HAN. To further verify whether HAN indeed regulates auxin action during flower development, we introduced the auxin response reporter pDR5rev:3XVENUS-N7 together with the auxin transport marker pPIN1:PIN1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) to han-2 mutant plants (CITATION). The fluorescence from the pDR5rev:3XVENUS-N7 reporter is greatly reduced in the inflorescence meristems (IMs) of the han-2 mutant plants, especially at the floral primordia, compared with those in Landsberg erecta (Ler). By contrast, the pPIN1:PIN1-GFP reporter shows no appreciable change in fluorescence in han-2 (Figure 2). Consistent with our microarray data, live imaging results reveal that HAN mediates auxin response/signaling but not auxin transport during flower development. [[FIGURE]] Genes that are involved in responses to other hormones, such as jasmonic acid, gibberellin, and cytokinin, are significantly enriched in cluster 5 as well (Figure 1D). For example, the jasmonate signaling genes that encode jasmonate ZIM domain proteins (JAZ3, 5, 7, and 10), MYC2, and CORONATINE INDUCED1 (CORI3) are significantly repressed upon HAN induction (Table 2) (CITATION). The DELLA family genes GA INSENSITIVE (GAI ) and RGA-LIKE1 (RGL1) in the gibberellin signaling and RESPONSE REGULATOR15 (ARR15) and ARABIDOPSIS HISTIDINE-CONTAINING PHOSPHOTRANSFER FACTOR4 (AHP4) in the cytokinin two-component signaling pathway are also largely downregulated upon transient HAN overexpression (Table 2) (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, HAN seems to function as a negative regulator that mediates multiple hormone response and/or signaling pathways. In addition, the expression of genes encoding many well-known developmental regulators are significantly altered upon HAN induction, including flower developmental genes, such as BOP1 and 2, RBE, CUC3, BREVIPEDICELLUS (BP), KNOTTED-LIKE2 (KNAT2), and SEPALLATA3 (SEP3), and reproductive development genes, such as FUSCA3 (FUS3) and DYSFUNCTIONAL TAPETUM1 (DYT1), indicating that HAN regulates floral organ and embryo development through the interaction with known developmental regulators (Table 3) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In addition, transient HAN overexpression greatly represses the expression of HAN itself and several homologous genes in the same family (Table 3), suggesting a negative regulatory feedback. Therefore, we performed a more detailed characterization of this group of genes. Induction of HAN with DEX leads to a progressive reduction of endogenous HAN RNA. After 72 h of DEX treatment, the accumulation of HAN transcripts decreases by half compared with the mock-treated plants (Figure 3A, Table 3). Moreover, induction of HAN significantly represses the expression of three GATA3 family genes: HANL2, GNC, and GNL, which belong to the same subfamily II as HAN (CITATION). For simplicity, the term GATA3 family genes will hereafter refer to HANL2, GNC, and GNL collectively. HANL1 and HANL2 are the two close homologs of HAN, which contain the HAN motif in Arabidopsis, and their biological function is unknown (CITATION). After 4 h of DEX treatment, transcripts of HANL2 decrease by 3.3-fold and subsequently remain at this level, while there is no change in the level of HANL1 transcripts (Table 3). Similarly, HAN induction reduces the levels of GNC and GNL transcripts as well. After 72 h of DEX treatment, the accumulation of GNC and GNL transcripts is only 15 and 20% of those in the mock treatments (Table 3). To validate our results and control for potential cross-hybridization between family members in the microarray, we performed quantitative real-time RT-PCR. As shown in Figure 3B, HAN overexpression from a transgene indeed results in a progressive repression of RNA accumulation from the endogenous gene and a rapid negative regulation of HANL2, GNC, and GNL. For example, upon 4 h of DEX treatment, HAN expression has not changed, whereas transcripts of HANL2, GNC, and GNL decrease by 5.8-, 6.6-, and 5.8-fold, respectively. Upon 72 h DEX treatment, HAN expression is reduced to 70% of its starting value, similar to the microarray results, while HANL2, GNC, and GNL transcripts decrease 25-, 33-, and 25-fold respectively compared with the mock-treated samples. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the genetic interactions between HAN and the GATA3 family genes identified in the microarray experiments, we used a weak allele of HAN (han-2) and T-DNA insertion lines of HANL2 (SALK_138626), GNC (SALK_001778), and GNL (SAILK_003995) to generate all possible combinations of double and triple mutants (CITATION). Although single mutants and any combination of double mutants of GNC, GNL, and HANL2 had no evident floral developmental phenotypes, double and triple mutants of HAN with GNC, GNL, and HANL2 showed progressive and synergistic effects on sepal fusion, petal number, fertility defects, and carpel abnormality (Figures 4 and 5). The single han-2 mutant has reduced silique length, decreased fertility, and fewer sepals, petals, and stamens, and it displays occasional sepal fusion and carpelloid stamens (CITATION). The silique length in the double mutants (han-2 hanl2, han-2 gnc, and han-2 gnl) is decreased ∼20%, and seed yields are reduced (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). In the triple mutants (han-2 hanl2 gnc, han-2 hanl2 gnl, and han-2 gnc gnl), the siliques exhibit almost no expansion or elongation, and the plants are almost sterile (Figures 4B and 4C; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Floral organ development is even more severely affected in the double and triple mutants. The most obvious defect is the reduction of petal number. For example, the single han-2 mutant usually has three petals, while the average petal number is 1.1 and 0.3 in the han-2 hanl2 double and han-2 hanl2 gnc triple mutant plants, respectively (Figures 4D and 5A). Moreover, there are increases in the frequency of sepal fusion and carpelloid stamens in plants with combined mutations in HAN with GATA3 family genes. The frequency of sepal fusion in the han-2 single mutant is 7%, while it increases to 47, 47, and 40% in the double mutants han-2 gnl, han-2 hanl2, and han-2 gnc, respectively, and 67, 60, and 37% in the triple mutants han-2 hanl2 gnl, han-2 gnc gnl, and han-2 hanl2 gnc, respectively (Figure 5B). By contrast, stamen/carpel development seems to be mainly regulated by GNC and HAN, double mutations of GNC and HAN result in an over 12-fold increase in the occurrence of carpelloid stamens compared with han-2 single mutants, whereas in the han-2 hanl2 or han-2 gnl double mutant plants, the frequency of carpelloid stamens is about the same as in the han-2 single mutant (Figure 5B). There is no phenotypic difference between homozygous triple mutants and plants with homozygous mutations in HAN, homozygous for a second member, and heterozygous for a third member, suggesting functional redundancy among HANL2, GNC, and GNL. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We also compared embryo development in the han-2 single mutant with development in double and triple mutants. HAN has previously been shown to function during Arabidopsis embryo development and is required for proper proembryo boundary position (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 6, han-2 embryo development displays some degree of abnormality, such as unequal or partially fused cotyledons, along with slightly disorganized embryo shape and boundary positions. In the double or triple mutants of HAN and GATA3 family genes, embryo development is severely disrupted. Most embryos prematurely terminated at the globular stage, after forming a cluster of cells, either in a round or irregular shape (Figure 6). Moreover, HAN and GNL may be involved in general plant growth, since the plant height and size decreased greatly when the plants bore combinations of HAN and GNL mutations (Figures 4A and 4B). [[FIGURE]] We next examined the expression patterns of HANL2, GNC, and GNL during flower development by in situ hybridization. We examined the specificity of our probes by hybridizing the HANL2 probe to flowers of a hanl2 null mutant, SALK_138626 (CITATION). As shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online, there is almost no signal in the hanl2 mutant background, showing that the probe reflects the in vivo transcript accumulation of GATA3 family genes. HANL2 is expressed throughout the IM and early stages of floral primordia (stages 1 to 3) (Figures 7A and 7B). From stage 6 onward, HANL2 is largely restricted to the inner three whorls, specifically in the petals, stamens, and carpels (Figures 7C and 7D). Within the stamens, the strongest expression of HANL2 is detected in the anther locules as well as in the vascular strands, whereas in carpels, the strongest expression is limited to ovules (Figure 7E). The expression patterns of GNC and GNL overlap with that of HANL2, confirming that the three GATA3 family genes may share similar functions. Transcripts of GNC and GNL are first detected in the IM and young flower buds. As the flowers develop (from stage 6 onward), GNC and GNL signals are mostly limited to the inner three whorls, which is consistent with data from previous studies (CITATION) (Figures 7F to 7I and 7K to 7N). Transverse sections showed that GNC and GNL expression is mainly detectable in the anther locules, vascular strands, and ovules (Figures 7J and 7O). However, the signal intensity of HANL2, GNC, and GNL are different, with HANL2 having the strongest, GNL the intermediate, and GNC the weakest expression in all of the tissues that we examined (Figure 7). Given that transcripts of HAN are detected at the boundaries between the meristem and lateral organ primordia, the lateral and basal regions of carpels, and the anther locules and vascular strands (CITATION), HAN partially overlaps with the expression patterns of HANL2, GNC, and GNL. [[FIGURE]] The expression data and genetic analysis imply that HAN may function as a negative regulator that modulates its own expression and that of other GATA3 family genes. To further test this possibility, we examined the expression of GATA3 family genes in the loss-of-function han-1 line (Figure 8). The expression patterns of HANL2, GNC, and GNL remain similar in the han-1 mutant background, with expression specifically restricted to the inner three whorls in the older flower primordia (Figure 8A). Quantification of the expression by qRT-PCR revealed that transcript accumulation from HANL2, GNC, and GNL increases in the han-1 floral buds compared with those of the wild type (Figure 8B), suggesting that HAN may control the expression level of its family genes to ensure proper flower development. [[FIGURE]] The additive phenotype of the triple mutants suggested that HAN likely works with its family members to control floral development. To examine the physical interaction between these proteins, we performed a yeast two-hybrid assay. In the X-Gal colony lift assay, HAN interacts with HAN and HANL2 strongly (strong blue color) and also interacts with GNL and GNC (moderate blue color), compared with the combination with HAN and empty vector only (Figure 9), suggesting that GATA3 family proteins physically interact. To confirm the interactions between HAN and the GATA3 family proteins in vivo, we also performed a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiment. HAN interacted with itself and with HANL2, GNC, and GNL (Figure 9; see Supplemental Figure 4 online), but not with FAMA, an unrelated bHLH protein that had been shown to form dimers with bHLH family proteins (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the mechanism by which HAN repressed its own expression and that of other members of the HAN-like gene family, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments with anti-HAN antibody, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of the precipitated genomic DNA. We first confirmed the specificity of the anti-HAN antibody we generated. In protein gel blot analysis, the anti-HAN antibody recognized a 32-kD band in the protein extracts from wild-type flowers, but not in the protein extracts from han1 null mutant flowers, suggesting that the anti-HAN antibody is highly specific (Figure 10A). The various amplicons used for the ChIP analyses are shown in Figure 10B, which covered different segments of the 5′ 2.5 kb of the HAN and GNC promoters. Amplicon 3 (HANp3), which spans the region from −977 to −735 bp in the HAN promoter, was significantly enriched, when normalized to a control using anti-actin antibody (Figure 10C). The ChIP/input ratio for amplicon 3 (HANp3) increases sixfold above a negative control amplicon from the UBQ10 promoter in two independent biological replicates (Figure 10C). By contrast, all other amplicons from the HAN promoter were not enriched compared with the UBQ10 amplicon, which demonstrated the specificity of the assay. Amplicon 3 (GNCp3) in the GNC promoter, which spans the region from −763 to −656 in the GNC promoter, was also significantly enriched, and the enrichment is up to 17-fold after normalization (Figure 10D). Amplicon 3 from −977 to −735 of the HAN promoter and amplicon 3 from the GNC promoter both contain a putative GATA consensus binding site for GATA3 family transcription factors. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants used for microarray experiments were 35S:HAN-GR lines in the Ler background. The han-1 and han-2 alleles are in the Wassilewskija and Ler ecotypes, respectively (CITATION). The mutant lines of HANL2 (SALK_138626), GNC (SALK_001778), and GNL (SALK_003995) are in the Columbia background. Double and triple mutant plants between HAN and GATA3 family genes with the er mutation were chosen for genetic and morphological analyses. All of the phenotypes were confirmed from multiple segregation lines, which rule out the effects of the ecotype. Plants were grown in a soil:vermiculite:perlite mixture under continuous illumination with a light intensity range of 80 to 100 µmol·m–2·s–1 at 20°C. Arabidopsis thaliana inflorescences containing flower buds from stages 1 to 9 were collected for microarray analysis 0, 4, 12, and 72 h after 10 µM DEX treatment. DEX solution was made and applied every 24 h as previously described (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted with TRIZOL (Invitrogen) and purified with an RNeasy kit (Qiagen). Isolated RNA was assessed for integrity using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. RNA samples from mock- and DEX-treated plants at each time point were cohybridized, and labeling dyes were swapped between replicates to reduce dye-related bias. Four biological replicates were used for microarray hybridization. Microarray labeling and hybridization were performed as described (CITATION, CITATION). Microarrays were scanned with a GenePix 4200A scanner (Axon Instruments), and raw data were analyzed using the Resolver gene expression data analysis system version 4.0 (Rosetta Biosoftware) as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, we first removed spots that were flagged during data acquisition by Genepix software or had intensities in both channels below zero after background subtraction. We then normalized the signal intensities as described (CITATION). To calculate P values, we combined additive and multiplicative error components in both channels and loaded the resultant ratio profiles into the Resolver system. Analysis within the Resolver system was performed at the sequence level as described (CITATION). If multiple data points corresponded to the same gene, their values were combined using a weighted scheme such that the feature with the lowest error was given the greatest weight. The P values calculated with Resolver were adjusted with the Benjamini and Hochberg procedure using the Bioconductor multtest package (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/bioc/stable/src/contrib/html/multtest.html). The data are deposited in the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database under accession number GSE38658. We clustered genes with similar expression patterns using the clustering algorithm in Resolver as described previously (CITATION). To determine which categories of genes were enriched in each cluster, we tested for enrichment of GO terms using GOEAST software (CITATION) with default parameters except for the use of algorithms to eliminate local dependencies between GO terms (CITATION). All imaging was performed using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope with a ×40 water-dipping objective lens. Similar settings of laser power and filters were used for imaging of GFP/VENUS combination as previously described (CITATION). Zeiss LSM software was used for reconstructing the Z-stacks into a projection view. qRT-PCR analyses were first performed on cDNA synthesized from independently generated samples that were either mock- or DEX-treated for 4, 12, 72, or 9 d, using 2XsensiMix SYBR Mastermix (Bioline). Then, qRT-PCR analyses were compared using stage 0 to 9 flower buds of Ler (control), han-1, han2, and han-2 hanl2 gnc mutant backgrounds. Three biological replicates were used, upon which three technical replicates were performed. Actin2 was used as a control to normalize the expression data. Fold change was calculated as 2ΔΔCt (cycle threshold), and standard deviation was calculated among three biological replicates. The gene-specific primers are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Tissue fixation and in situ hybridizations were performed as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. Western Blue plus 1 mM tetramisole was used instead of 5-Bromo-4-Chloro-3-Indolyl Phosphate/Nitroblue tetrazolium as the substrate solution to reduce the hybridization background. In situ probes were synthesized by PCR amplification of cDNA using gene-specific primers containing T7 and SP6 RNA polymerase binding sites. Antisense probes were generated using T7 RNA polymerase, and sense probes were made using SP6 RNA polymerase. The gene primer pairs are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Similar developmental stages of immature seeds were cleared with Hoyer’s clearing buffer (2.5 g gum arabic, 33.3 g chloral hydrate, and 1.66 g glycerol in 10 mL water) and examined with a differential interference contrast microscope as described (CITATION). Yeast transformation and X-Gal–based β-galactosidase assays were performed following the manufacturer’s instructions. Full-length cDNAs for HAN, HANL2, GNC, and GNL were cloned into pENTR/D/TOPO and then Gateway cloned to pDEST32 and pDEST22 through the LR reaction (Invitrogen). The bait and prey vectors were transformed to yeast strain MaV203, and three single transformed colonies were picked and streaked onto yeast peptone dextrose adenine plates for the X-Gal colony lift assay, as described in the yeast protocols handbook from Clontech. For BiFC experiments, full-length HAN, HANL2, GNL, and GNC cDNA (without stop codon) Gateway clones were recombined into vectors containing each half of GFP (N or C terminus) to generate the fusion proteins (such as HAN-GFP N terminus) in frame (CITATION). Two plasmids for testing the specific interaction were cotransformed into Nicotiana benthamiana leaves through Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration as previously described (CITATION). The tobacco leaves were imaged on a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope 2 d after infiltration. GFP signals in nuclei (which demonstrate the physical interaction) and chlorophyll autofluorescence signals (which indicate tobacco cells) were detected at the same time from different detection channels. FAMA constructs, which have been shown to form homodimers, were included as positive controls for specificity (CITATION). Full-length HAN cDNA was cloned into the pET28-a vector to express 6xHIS-HAN protein in Escherichia coli RosettaBlue competent cells (Novagen). The recombinant fusion protein was purified using Ni-NTA agarose beads (Qiagen) and was used to generate polyclonal HAN antisera in rabbits by the Strategic Biosolution Company. Floral buds were ground in liquid nitrogen, and proteins were extracted using a plant total protein extraction kit (Sigma-Aldrich). SDS-PAGE, blotting, and detection were performed as described (CITATION), with HAN or tubulin antibodies at dilutions of 1:12,000 or 1:3000, respectively, and anti-rabbit or anti-mouse secondary antibodies at a dilution of 1:2000 (Amersham). The HAN antibody recognizes the native HAN specifically as a 32-kD band (Figure 10A). The association of HAN with the HAN and GNC promoters was investigated in planta using ChIP, followed by a quantitative real-time PCR approach, as described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) with some modifications. In general, 2 g of shoot apex from Ler wild-type plants was harvested and fixed with 1% formaldehyde under vacuum. Nuclei were isolated and lysed, and chromatin was sheared to an average size of 500 bp by sonication. The sonicated chromatin served as input or positive control. Immunoprecipitations were performed with anti-HAN antibody and using anti-actin antibody (Promega) as a control. The precipitated DNA was isolated and purified and served as a template for PCR. Quantitative PCR was performed as described for real-time PCR analysis. The degree of enrichment of the HAN or GNC promoter fragments was presented as the ChIP/input ratio, normalized to the antiactin control. The value was calculated as for each amplicon using following the equation 2(Ct(MOCK) − Ct(HAN-ChIP))/2(Ct(MOCK) − Ct(INPUT)). The primer pairs used in ChIP-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: HAN (AT3G50870), HANL2 (AT4G36620), GNC (AT5G56860), and GNL (AT4G26150). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Gene Ontology Term Enrichment (P < 0.003) in Cluster 1, Cluster 2, Cluster 3, and cluster 4 of Differentially Expressed Genes. Supplemental Figure 2. Seed Yield Is Greatly Reduced in the Combinatory Mutants of HAN and GATA3 Family Genes. Supplemental Figure 3. In Situ Hybridization of HANL2 in hanl2 Mutant Flowers. Supplemental Figure 4. Negative Controls for Interactions between HAN and GATA3 Family Proteins in BiFC Experiments in Transiently Transformed Nicotiana benthamiana Leaves. Supplemental Table 1. Gene Expression Patterns of Five Non-GATA HAN Targets in Mutant Plants and in the Transient Overexpression of HAN Plants. Supplemental Table 2. Primer Information Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. List of Genes That Are Differentially Expressed under Transient Overexpression of HAN.
