!~ABS~! A common response by plants to fungal attack is deposition of callose, a (1,3)-β-glucan polymer, in the form of cell wall thickenings called papillae, at site of wall penetration. While it has been generally believed that the papillae provide a structural barrier to slow fungal penetration, this idea has been challenged in recent studies of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), where fungal resistance was found to be independent of callose deposition. To the contrary, we show that callose can strongly support penetration resistance when deposited in elevated amounts at early time points of infection. We generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines that express POWDERY MILDEW RESISTANT4 (PMR4), which encodes a stress-induced callose synthase, under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. In these lines, we detected callose synthase activity that was four times higher than that in wild-type plants 6 h post inoculation with the virulent powdery mildew Golovinomyces cichoracearum. The callose synthase activity was correlated with enlarged callose deposits and the focal accumulation of green fluorescent protein-tagged PMR4 at sites of attempted fungal penetration. We observed similar results from infection studies with the nonadapted powdery mildew Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Haustoria formation was prevented in resistant transgenic lines during both types of powdery mildew infection, and neither the salicylic acid-dependent nor jasmonate-dependent pathways were induced. We present a schematic model that highlights the differences in callose deposition between the resistant transgenic lines and the susceptible wild-type plants during compatible and incompatible interactions between Arabidopsis and powdery mildew.
!~RES~! Three-week-old Arabidopsis plants were inoculated with the virulent powdery mildew Gc. At 7 d post inoculation (dpi), wild-type plants demonstrated the typical whitish powdery appearance associated with good fungal conidiation. The pmr4 mutant showed the described disease phenotype of yellow, necrotic leaves without macroscopically recognizable pathogen growth (CITATION). Only 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves were free from disease symptoms (Fig. 1A). The infection did not reduce biomass production in these plants as it did in wild-type and pmr4 plants (Fig. 1B). These phenotypes were confirmed for four independent 35S::PMR4-GFP lines. Aniline blue staining allowed visualization of callose through fluorescence microscopy. The specificity of aniline blue for staining of callose under our preparative conditions was confirmed in a colocalization study with parallel immunohistochemical labeling of callose using a specific anti-callose antibody (Supplemental Fig. S1). At 7 dpi, Gc infection induced strong callose deposition not only in epidermal cells but also in underlying mesophyll cells, thereby forming connected callose patches in the wild-type plants. Only single callose spots were detected in the epidermal cells of 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves. Callose deposition did not occur in pmr4 plants. Untreated control leaves of the 35S::PMR4-GFP lines did not show aberrant or additional callose deposition relative to wild-type plants (Fig. 1C), as confirmed by immunochemical determination of the total callose amount in the control leaf tissue. The callose amount in the pmr4 mutant was significantly reduced relative to the wild type and 35S::PMR4-GFP lines (Supplemental Fig. S2). Trypan blue-stained leaves were microscopically analyzed for the density of hyphal growth. At 7 dpi, Gc formed a dense hyphal network with a relatively high number of spore-containing conidiophores on wild-type leaves. The hyphal network was less dense on pmr4 leaves but still readily observable. Conidiophore formation was almost absent on the pmr4 mutant. In contrast to wild-type and pmr4 plants, Gc did not form a hyphal network on 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves. Conidia were only able to produce short appressorial germ tubes without further growth (Fig. 1C). [[FIGURE]] Infiltration of the pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato induced strong callose deposition in both wild-type and 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves. Comparing callose deposition 1 and 3 d post infiltration, we did not observe a difference in the deposited amount of callose (Supplemental Fig. S3) or resistance (data not shown). Infiltration of the buffer solution and water only was sufficient to induce callose deposition in 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves but not in wild-type or pmr4 leaves (Supplemental Fig. S3). Similar to water infiltration, the spraying of water on the leaves induced rapid callose deposition in epidermal cells of 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves. At 1 h after spraying, ring-shaped callose deposits that traced the outer rim of the small droplets were detectable. This ring-shaped callose deposition was enhanced by spraying of the elicitor-active epitope flg22. Flg22 derives from flagellin, which is the main component of bacterial flagellum (CITATION). Neither wild-type nor pmr4 mutant cells showed strong callose deposition 1 h after spraying with water or flg22 (Supplemental Fig. S4). During wounding, no differences in callose deposition between 35S::PMR4-GFP and the wild type were observed (Supplemental Fig. S5). The absence of a hyphal network on 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves indicated that an effective defense response was initiated during early stages of infection with Gc. Therefore, we analyzed the cell wall composition of unchallenged leaves. A detailed determination of the noncellulosic monocarbohydrate composition revealed changes in the cell wall of 35S::PMR4-GFP lines in comparison with the wild type. Fuc and Gal levels were reduced, whereas the relative amount of Glc increased by almost 60% (Supplemental Fig. S6). Before germination, powdery mildew conidia release an extracellular matrix that most likely contains cell wall-degrading enzymes and facilitates host recognition (CITATION). Changes in the host cell wall composition, therefore, may affect host recognition and subsequent conidial germination. A comparison of the germination rate of the virulent powdery mildew, Gc, on 35S::PMR4-GFP, wild-type, and pmr4 leaves did not show differences (Supplemental Fig. S7A). The germination rate of the nonadapted powdery mildew, Bgh, was slightly reduced on 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves relative to wild-type and pmr4 leaves (Supplemental Fig. S7B). We then focused on pathogen-induced callose deposition in epidermal leaf cells at 6, 12, and 24 h post inoculation (hpi). During Gc infection, we consistently observed a callose deposit underneath the appressorial germ tube at 6 hpi and two callose deposits at 12 and 24 hpi in both 35S::PMR4-GFP and wild-type leaves (Fig. 2, A and B; Supplemental Fig. S8, A and B). However, the size and shape of the callose deposits were different. [[FIGURE]] At 6 hpi, the diameter of the first callose deposit was 4.5 times larger in 35S::PMR4-GFP plants than in wild-type plants (Fig. 2C). The increase in size reflected a 5-fold higher fluorescence intensity (Fig. 2D) emitted by callose-adsorbed aniline blue (CITATION) in the deposit and a 4-fold higher total callose synthase activity in 35S::PMR4-GFP leaf tissue relative to the wild type (Fig. 2F). The increased size of the first callose deposit in the 35S::PMR4-GFP leaf tissue was based on an additional field of callose surrounding a central callose core as visualized in a three-dimensional (3D) surface plot (Fig. 2E). The observed field of callose was not present in wild-type deposits (Fig. 2, B and E). At 12 hpi, the first deposit in the wild-type leaf tissue showed a callose deposition pattern similar to that of 35S::PMR4-GFP, a core with a surrounding field of callose (Fig. 2B). However, this deposit was still reduced in diameter (55% of the size of the 35S::PMR4-GFP deposits; Fig. 2C). The second callose deposit at the tip of the elongated appressorial germ tube differed significantly in its shape. Nearly 90% of all deposits in the wild-type leaf had a callose-encased penetration peg, which was not present in callose deposits in 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Fig. S8C). At 24 hpi, the frequency of callose-encased penetration pegs further increased to almost 100% (Supplemental Fig. S8C) and was accompanied by a strong callose accumulation around the peg in wild-type leaves (Fig. 2B). The diameters of wild-type and 35S::PMR4-GFP secondary callose deposits were comparable (Fig. 2C). At the same time, the diameter of the first callose deposit in wild-type leaves was no longer discernible because most of the deposits became diffuse and barely detectable (Fig. 2, B and C; Supplemental Fig. S8D). Whereas the first and second callose deposits underwent the described changes between 6 and 24 hpi in wild-type plants, the size and shape of the callose deposits in the 35S::PMR4-GFP lines were characterized by their consistency during these early stages of infection (Fig. 2B). As expected, we did not observe pathogen-induced callose deposition in the pmr4 mutant (Fig. 2A). The penetration success of Gc was examined by the formation of haustoria (Fig. 2A), which are fungal feeding structures (CITATION). The normally virulent powdery mildew Gc was not able to successfully penetrate 35S::PMR4-GFP epidermal cells and to form secondary hyphae. Comparing the wild-type plant and the pmr4 mutant, the penetration success was not significantly different at 12 hpi, as it reached rates of approximately 80%. At 24 hpi, penetration success further increased in the wild-type plant to approximately 90% but was stable in pmr4 (Fig. 2G). This was correlated with the observed secondary hyphae formation, which was 90% in the wild-type plant and almost 80% in pmr4 (Fig. 2H). At 6 hpi with the nonadapted powdery mildew Bgh, the first callose deposit at the tip of the primary germ tube (Fig. 3A) showed a dense callose core surrounded by a field of callose in transgenic 35S::PMR4-GFP lines. These callose deposits resembled the shape of the Gc-induced deposits. However, the diameter was only one-half of that observed during Gc infection (Fig. 3B). During the progression of the Bgh infection at 12 and 24 hpi, the shape of the first callose deposit did not change but the diameter decreased by 30% (Fig. 3B). In strong contrast to 35S::PMR4-GFP plants, callose was not deposited at the primary germ tube of Bgh conidia in wild-type epidermal cells (Fig. 3, A and B; Supplemental Fig. S9A). Similar to Gc infection, the increased callose deposition of the 35S::PMR4-GFP lines at 6 hpi with Bgh reflected total callose synthase activity that was four times higher than that of the wild-type plant (Fig. 3C). [[FIGURE]] At 12 hpi, the occurrence of a callose deposit at the appressorial germ tube (i.e. the so-called second callose deposit) was significantly higher in 35S::PMR4-GFP epidermal leaf cells than in wild-type epidermal leaf cells (45% and 30%, respectively; Supplemental Fig. S9B). Only wild-type secondary callose deposits showed penetration pegs (Fig. 3A), with a frequency of 80% (Supplemental Fig. S9C). The shape of the callose deposit changed from an enlarged dot-like pattern at 12 hpi to a patch-like formation at 24 hpi in wild-type leaf tissue (Fig. 3A). As previously observed during Gc infection, pathogen-induced callose deposition was absent in pmr4 during Bgh infection (Fig. 3A). In contrast to Gc infection, the penetration success of Bgh was significantly higher in pmr4 than in wild-type plants (20% and 8%, respectively) at 24 hpi (Fig. 3D). To analyze the regulation of pathogen-induced callose synthesis, we determined PMR4 expression in wild-type and 35S::PMR4-GFP leaf tissue. The general PMR4 expression level in unchallenged leaf tissue was approximately 2.5 times higher in 35S::PMR4-GFP tissue than in wild-type tissue (Supplemental Table S1). During Gc infection, we determined only a slight increase in PMR4 expression. PMR4 expression was 1.9-fold higher in 35S::PMR4-GFP at 12 hpi and in wild-type tissues at 24 hpi. During Bgh infection, the increase in PMR4 expression was even weaker and occurred later (Supplemental Fig. S10). The C-terminal fusion of GFP to the callose synthase PMR4 facilitated the localization of the protein by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. In unchallenged 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves, we detected PMR4-GFP at the plant plasma membrane, which was labeled with the membrane stain FM 4-64 in epidermal cells (Fig. 4A). GFP-based fluorescence was not detected in wild-type leaves (Fig. 4A). At 6 hpi with Gc, PMR4-GFP focally accumulated in the plasma membrane underneath the appressorial germ tube at sites of attempted fungal penetration (Fig. 4, B and C). Here, PMR4-GFP coincided with localized callose deposition (Fig. 4, C–E). This area was surrounded by FM 4-64-labeled bodies (Fig. 4, D and E), which were free from aniline blue signals but may have contained PMR-GFP, as indicated in colocalization studies (Supplemental Fig. S11). [[FIGURE]] Because hyperactivation of the salicylic acid pathway induces resistance in the pmr4 mutant (CITATION), we wanted to know whether this plant defense response also contributes to the observed complete powdery mildew resistance in 35S::PMR4-GFP plants. We measured the gene expression of ISOCHORISMATE SYNTHASE1 (ICS1) and ENHANCED DISEASE SUSCEPTIBILITY5 (EDS5), which are both genetic markers of salicylic acid synthesis in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), via quantitative PCR during Gc and Bgh infection. In accordance with the results from CITATION, the absolute transcript levels of ICS1 and EDS5 in control pmr4 leaves were approximately twice as high as those in wild-type and 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves (Supplemental Table S1). During Gc infection, ICS1 and EDS5 expression continuously increased in pmr4 leaves (Fig. 5, A and B). In wild-type leaves, ICS1 expression was significantly higher only at 12 hpi (Fig. 5A). EDS5 expression was significantly induced at 12 hpi and remained at this level at 24 and 72 hpi (Fig. 5B). During Bgh infection of pmr4, ICS1 expression was similar to Gc-induced expression, as it showed a continuous increase (Fig. 5A). EDS5 reached its highest expression level at 12 hpi (Fig. 5B). In Bgh-infected wild-type leaves, ICS1 but not EDS5 expression was significantly higher than in control tissue at 12 and 24 hpi (Fig. 5A). Subsequently, ICS1 and EDS5 expression was significantly repressed at 72 hpi (Fig. 5, A and B). [[FIGURE]] The transcriptional repression of salicylic acid-related genes in wild-type leaves was negatively correlated to a strong increase in CORONATINE INSENSITIVE1 (COI1) expression (Fig. 5C). The COI1 gene is responsive to jasmonate formation (CITATION). Jasmonate is involved in plant defense responses in incompatible plant-microbe interactions (CITATION). In pmr4, COI1 expression decreased during Bgh infection but was not altered during Gc infection (Fig. 5C). The expression of ICS1, EDS5, and COI1 did not change during Gc or Bgh infection of 35S::PMR4-GFP leaves (Fig. 5).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild type (Columbia), pmr4 (allele 1; CITATION), and 35S::PMR4-GFP transgenic lines (this study) as well as the powdery mildews Golovinomyces cichoracearum (strain UCSC1) and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (strain CR3) were cultivated as described by CITATION. Arabidopsis inoculations (3-week-old plants were used in all experiments) and aniline blue and trypan blue staining for cytological analyses followed the protocol of CITATION. For the bacterial infection assays, strain DC3000 of Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato (CITATION) was used. Cultivation and leaf infiltration followed the description by CITATION. A 10 mm MgCl2 solution served as a mock control in the bacterial infiltration assay. To monitor callose deposition in epidermal cells in response to a pathogen-associated molecular pattern, a 1 µm flg22 (MoBiTec) solution was sprayed on the leaf surface. Wounding experiments were performed with a needle. To create a PMR4 fusion to GFP under the control of the 35S promoter, 5′ (nucleotides 1–1,869 of the unspliced transcript), mid (2,030–4,049), and 3′ fragments without a stop codon (4,230–5,680) of PMR4 (At4g03550) were amplified from Arabidopsis Columbia genomic DNA; the 35S promoter was amplified from the pCAMBIA3300 vector (Cambia), and GFP was amplified from the pIGPAPA vector (CITATION). All fragments contained a 20-nucleotide overhang to the adjacent fragment for sequential fusion PCR. The resulting fusion construct, 35S::PMR4-GFP (6,628 nucleotides), was cloned into pCAMBIA3300 via blunt-end ligation at the SmaI restriction site. Primer sequences are provided in Supplemental Table S2. The vector was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101). For Arabidopsis transformation, flowering Columbia plants were dipped into A. tumefaciens-containing infiltration medium (CITATION). Transformed plants were selected by application of the herbicide Basta (Bayer), to which the bar gene (phosphinothricin acetyltransferase) of the pCAMBIA vector conferred resistance. Rosette leaves were collected from uninfected and Gc- or Bgh-infected wild-type, pmr4, and 35S::PMR4-GFP plants at 6, 12, 24, and 72 hpi. Each sample represented a pool of rosette leaves from four plants. The same ground tissue was used for RNA isolation and membrane preparation. All subsequent experimental procedures required for final expression analysis and the determination of callose synthase activity followed the description of CITATION. Quantification of gene expression was conducted using the StepOnePlus Real-Time PCR Systems (Applied Biosystems). Primer sequences used in expression analysis are summarized in Supplemental Table S3. Callose determination in the activity assay was conducted using the Safire microplate reader (Tecan). Leaf samples were mounted between a microscope slide and coverslip in water. Z series were captured using the LSM 780 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss) with a Zeiss C-Apochromat 63× water-immersion objective. Callose was stained with aniline blue and membranes with FM 4-64. In the first track, aniline blue was excited at 405 nm by using a diode laser, and FM 4-64 was excited at 561 nm by using a diode-pumped solid-state laser. Emission filtering was achieved using a 472- to 490-nm bandpass filter for aniline blue and a 679- to 755-nm bandpass filter for FM 4-64. In the second track, GFP was excited at 488 nm by using an argon laser, and emission filtering was achieved using a 499- to 551-nm bandpass filter. Aniline blue and GFP signals were gathered by a highly sensitive gallium-arsenite-phosphate nondescanned photodetector (Zeiss); FM 4-64 signals were gathered by conventional photomultiplier tube detectors. Image processing, including shadow 3D projection, in silico cross section, maximum intensity 3D reconstruction, and surface rendering, was performed using integral functions of the ZEN 2010 (Zeiss) operating software. For calculation of the aniline blue-emitted fluorescence of callose deposits, the following ImageJ tools (W.S. Rasband, National Institutes of Health; http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/) were used: “elliptical selection” to define the area of a callose deposit, “histogram list” as the reference for calculating emitted fluorescence, and “interactive 3D surface plot” to visualize the special distribution of fluorescence intensity within a callose deposit. Descriptive statistics including the mean and se along with the Tukey range test for multiple comparison procedures in conjunction with an ANOVA were used to determine significant differences. P < 0.05 was considered significant. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Verification of the specificity of callose staining with aniline blue by comparative immunohistochemical analysis. Supplemental Figure S2. Callose concentration in unchallenged Arabidopsis leaves. Supplemental Figure S3. Callose deposition in Arabidopsis leaves after infiltration of the bacterial pathogen P. syringae. Supplemental Figure S4. Callose deposition in Arabidopsis leaves after spraying the epitope flg22 of bacterial flagellin. Supplemental Figure S5. Callose deposition in Arabidopsis leaves after wounding. Supplemental Figure S6. Relative noncellulosic monocarbohydrate composition of unchallenged Arabidopsis leaves. Supplemental Figure S7. Germination rates of powdery mildew conidia on Arabidopsis leaves. Supplemental Figure S8. Statistical analysis of callose deposits in Arabidopsis leaves after Gc infection. Supplemental Figure S9. Statistical analysis of callose deposits in Arabidopsis leaves after B. graminis infection. Supplemental Figure S10. Transcriptional regulation of PMR4 during early stages of powdery mildew infection. Supplemental Figure S11. Colocalization studies of the callose synthase 35S::PMR4-GFP and FM 4-64-labeled bodies at the site of attempted powdery mildew penetration. Supplemental Table S1. Expression of defense-related genes in unchallenged leaves of Arabidopsis 35S::PMR4-GFP and pmr4 mutant in relation to the wild type. Supplemental Table S2. Sequences of primers used in cloning. Supplemental Table S3. Sequences of primers used in expression analysis.
