!~ABS~! The present study identified a family of six A. thaliana genes that share five limited regions of sequence similarity with LAZY1, a gene in Oryza sativa (rice) shown to participate in the early gravity signaling for shoot gravitropism. A T-DNA insertion into the Arabidopsis gene (At5g14090) most similar to LAZY1 increased the inflorescence branch angle to 81° from the wild type value of 42°. RNA interference lines and molecular rescue experiments confirmed the linkage between the branch-angle phenotype and the gene consequently named AtLAZY1. Time-resolved gravitropism measurements of atlazy1 hypocotyls and primary inflorescence stems showed a significantly reduced bending rate during the first hour of response. The subcellular localization of AtLAZY1 protein was investigated to determine if the nuclear localization predicted from the gene sequence was observable and important to its function in shoot gravity responses. AtLAZY1 fused to green fluorescent protein largely rescued the branch-angle phenotype of atlazy1, and was observed by confocal microscopy at the cell periphery and within the nucleus. Mutation of the nuclear localization signal prevented detectable levels of AtLAZY1 in the nucleus without affecting the ability of the gene to rescue the atlazy1 branch-angle phenotype. These results indicate that AtLAZY1 functions in gravity signaling during shoot gravitropism, being a functional ortholog of rice LAZY1. The nuclear pool of the protein appears to be unnecessary for this function, which instead relies on a pool that appears to reside at the cell periphery.
!~RES~! A previous study identified an Arabidopsis gene (At5g14090) with some sequence similarity to the rice gene LAZY1 (Yoshihara and Iino, CITATION). An alignment of LAZY1 (416 amino acids) and At5g14090 (358 amino acids) showed where these limited regions of similarity occur (Figure 1a). Iterative database searches using each round of results as the next round of queries identified five regions of conservation that defined a family of six LAZY1-like genes in Arabidopsis (Figures 1b and S2), which had similar predicted genomic structures (Figure 1c). The only functional domains inferred from the sequence analysis of At5g14090 were nuclear localization signals (NLSs), located between regions III and IV (Figure 1a), and an EAR motif located in the conserved region V. Two partially overlapping NLSs were predicted separately by PredictNLS (http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/cgi/var/nair/resonline.pl) and cNLS mapper (http://nls-mapper.iab.keio.ac.jp/cgi-bin/NLS_Mapper_form.cgi). EAR motifs (L/FVLEL and related sequences) are often found in transcription regulators, and in many cases function as repressors (Kazan, CITATION; Kagale et al., CITATION). Therefore, the predicted occurrence of an EAR motif could suggest a nuclear-localized function of the product of At5g14090. [[FIGURE]] Pairwise alignment showed that At5g14090 is the Arabidopsis gene most closely related to LAZY1 (Table 1). Considering this sequence similarity and the results to be described, the gene is hereafter referred to as AtLAZY1. Protein sequences and the unique identifiers for each Arabidopsis protein were obtained from the TAIR website (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Pairwise alignment score between each homolog and rice LAZY1, obtained using T-COFFEE (Notredame et al., CITATION). This homolog was named AtLAZY1 on the basis of the sequence similarity to LAZY1 and the results obtained in this study. The β-glucuronidase (GUS) and enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporters were introduced into wild-type plants under the control of the AtLAZY1 promoter to investigate the natural expression pattern of the gene. The pAtLAZY1:GUS activity was largely restricted to the shoot in dark- or light-grown seedlings (Figure 2a–e). Staining was observed around the shoot apical meristem and vascular tissues (Figure 2a–e). The tissue stained around vascular tissue was the stele, apparently including the endodermis (Figure 2e). Similar expression patterns were displayed by the pAtLAZY1:eGFP transgenic plants. Etiolated seedlings showed signal in the hypocotyl central cylinder and apical hook, as well as the cotyledon petioles and blades (Figure 2f,g). The upper portion of the inflorescence stem stained well (Figure 2d). The shoot specificity of AtLAZY1 expression is shared by LAZY1 (Li et al., CITATION; Yoshihara and Iino, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The possible function of AtLAZY1 on shoot gravitropism was investigated by genetically manipulating its expression through T-DNA insertion and RNA interference (RNAi). A plant containing a T-DNA insertion immediately following the start codon (Figure 3a) was obtained. The mRNA expressed in this T-DNA-inserted AtLAZY1 was converted to cDNA by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and sequenced (Figure S3). As shown in Figure 3(a), a deletion spanning the first exon/intron boundary resulted in a transcript composed of the first proper amino acid followed by what would normally be an intron sequence. If a protein were to be made from this over-expressed mutant mRNA, it would be an N-terminal truncated protein. The T-DNA insertion mutant allele is hereafter called atlazy1. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed on extracts of light-grown seedlings. As compared with AtLAZY1 of the wild type, the mutated gene was over-expressed approximately 60-fold higher (Figure 3b), probably because of the CaMV 35S promoter located at the right border of the T-DNA sequence (Rosso et al., CITATION). We also produced transgenic lines carrying an AtLAZY1-RNAi construct. Two of those AtLAZY1-RNAi lines (R1 and R2), in which AtLAZY1 expression was suppressed by approximately 80% (Figure 3b), were used for further analysis. Phenotype analyses of this allele and independent AtLAZY1-RNAi lines, and rescue of the phenotype with AtLAZY1 genomic DNA (Figure S4) indicate that atlazy1 can be considered a recessive, loss-of-function mutant. [[FIGURE]] The most apparent and striking feature of atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi plants was a large declination of their branches (Figure 3c). Many branches were nearly horizontal in the mutant, and sometimes it adopted a nearly prostrate growth habit reminiscent of rice lazy1 mutants (Li et al., CITATION; Yoshihara and Iino, CITATION). The plants also tended to tilt their main shoots. When the branch orientation was quantified in terms of the branch angle illustrated in Figure 3(d), wild-type plants had branch angles of about 40°, whereas atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi plants had branch angles of about 80° (Figure 3d). Apart from the inflorescence morphology, the adult atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi plants appeared normal (Figure 3c). The probability that the branch orientation phenotype was caused by the reduced gravitropic responsiveness of the mutant branches was tested by inverting plants with a first branch of approximately 4 cm in length. The light source was placed under the plants after inversion to maintain the original illumination conditions. As shown in Figure 4, the main stem and branches of wild-type plants curved upwards in response to reorientation, but atlazy1 plants did not. Thus, the atlazy1 mutant phenotype is explained by impaired negative shoot gravitropism. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the role played by AtLAZY1 in shoot gravitropism, the gravitropic response of hypocotyls in atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi lines was compared with the wild type. Digital images of etiolated hypocotyls were automatically collected in complete darkness at 5-min intervals after 90° rotation using infrared-sensitive charge-coupled device (CCD) cameras. Analysis was performed with the HYPOTrace computer program, as previously described for phototropism (Wang et al., CITATION). Figure 5(a) shows that atlazy1 and the two AtLAZY1-RNAi lines described in Figure 3 responded more weakly than the wild type. The first derivative of the time courses in Figure 5(a) showed that the main difference between the wild type and the atlazy1 or AtLAZY1-RNAi lines was slower bending during the initial hour of the gravitropic response, in which the most rapid bending occurred in the wild type (Figure 5b). This was not caused by any difference in growth rate, because two of the three atlazy1 lines grew at the wild-type rate during the bending response (Figure 5c). Instead, the data in Figure 5(b,c) indicated that AtLAZY1 affects the magnitude of the growth differential across the hypocotyl during the early stage of gravitropism. [[FIGURE]] Inflorescence stems were also subjected to gravistimulation, and the response was measured, in this case manually, from time series of digital images. As in hypocotyls, atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi lines responded slower than the wild type during the early phase of curvature development (Figure 5d,e). The first-derivative analyses showed that atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi lines differed from the wild type within the first 1.0–1.5 h of the gravitropic response: the period in which the most rapid bending occurred in the wild type. The atlazy1 and AtLAZY1-RNAi lines also lacked the transient overshooting of the final angle displayed by the wild type (Figure 5d). Impaired hypocotyl gravitropism in the atlazy1 lines is similar to the lazy1 coleoptile gravitropism phenotype (Yoshihara and Iino, CITATION, CITATION). As rice LAZY1 was found to be essential for coleoptile circumnutation (Yoshihara and Iino, CITATION, CITATION), a role for AtLAZY1 in circumnutation of hypocotyls and inflorescence stems was investigated. Hypocotyl circumnutation enhanced by treatment with the ethylene precursor, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid (ACC) (Binder et al., CITATION) was measured with the HYPOTrace tool. Wild-type and atlazy1 hypocotyls began to nutate similarly approximately 3 h after treatment with ACC (Figure S5a). Thus, AtLAZY1 may not function in hypocotyl circumnutation. Circumnutation of wild-type inflorescence stems became pronounced in darkness, as recorded by a CCD camera under infrared illumination. Similar circumnutation occurred in atlazy1 plants (Figure S5b). It was difficult to make a quantitative comparison between the wild type and atlazy1 because the amplitude and period of the circumnutation were variable. The results, however, establish that AtLAZY1 is not essential for stem circumnutation. To gain insight into the molecular function of the AtLAZY1 protein, its subcellular localization was examined. Attempts to express AtLAZY1 protein with eGFP fused to the amino or carboxy termini in atlazy1 plants (also in wild-type plants) were not successful. The phenotype was not rescued and eGFP fluorescence was not observed. Next, eGFP was inserted between the conserved regions to avoid disturbing the function of AtLAZY1 (Figure 1a) to produce a construct: pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP (Figure 6a). The eGFP-tagged AtLAZY1 construct was introduced into atlazy1 and its aberrant branch angle phenotype was rescued (Figure 6b), indicating that the pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP protein is functional. Unfortunately, the GFP signal was too weak to study, even when the native promoter was replaced with the strong 35S promoter. Therefore, a transient expression system based on Nicotiana benthamiana leaves was employed. Figure 6(d–j) shows that the p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFP signal was evident at the cell periphery, and co-localized with the FM4-64 membrane marker dye (Figure 6e–g), consistent with a plasma membrane localization. Plasmolysed leaf cells expressing p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFP showed eGFP in Hechtian strands of the plasma membrane, supporting the plasma membrane localization of at least some of the peripheral pool of AtLAZY1 protein (Figure S6). Figure 6(h–j) shows that another region of eGFP signal overlapped perfectly with the nucleus marker, p35S:mRFP-TGA5 (Kato et al., CITATION; Schornack et al., CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The N. benthamiana transient expression system provided clear and useful results, but subcellular localization of the protein should be studied in its native context as much as possible. The HSP18.2 heat shock-inducible promoter (Takahashi et al., CITATION) was useful in this regard. Figure 7 shows that pHSP18.2:AtLAZY1-eGFP could be visualized in apical hook cells of T2 etiolated seedlings after a 4-h treatment of 37°C. Fluorescence was strongest at the cell periphery (Figure 7b,d). The nuclear eGFP signal was always present, although sometimes weak. These results are consistent with the results in Figure 6(d–j), and indicate that AtLAZY1 is localized to the periphery and to the nucleus of cells, in which the protein is naturally expected (Figures 3 and 7a). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether either of the two partially overlapping nuclear localization signals predicted in the AtLAZY1 sequence (Figure 1a) is responsible for the nuclear localization of AtLAZY1-eGFP, critical lysine residues within each were replaced by alanine in two different constructs Figure 8(a). p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFPK231A/K232A and p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A were studied separately in the N. benthamiana transient expression system. As shown in Figure 8(b–d), p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFP (control) localized to the cell periphery, which was marked by the co-expressed pm-rk plasma membrane marker (Nelson et al., CITATION), and to the nucleus. Fortuitously, pm-rk also rimmed the edge of the nucleus when transiently expressed in N. benthamiana, providing a useful compartment outline. Signal from p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFPK231A/K232A was in some cases observed in nuclei outlined with pm-rk (Figure 8e–g), although the signal seemed weaker than that produced by p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFP. On the other hand, p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A was never observed in nuclei (Figure 8h–j). This nuclear-exclusion result was also obtained when pHSP18.2:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A seedlings were induced by heat shock (Figure 8k,l). These results indicate that the K252A/K253A mutations prevent the nuclear import predicted by the NLS in AtLAZY1. [[FIGURE]] An experiment was designed to assess how well differently localized versions of AtLAZY1 rescued the branch angle phenotype of atlazy1. atlazy1 mutants were transformed with the constructs pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1, pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1K252A/K253A, pALAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP or pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A. T1 plants surviving selection were grown to maturity on soil, and the angles of their first and second inflorescence branches were measured. In wild-type and atlazy1 plants, the average branch angles were 42.4° and 81.3°, respectively, and their population distributions were clearly separated (Figure 9a,b). Figure 9(c) shows that transformation of atlazy1 with pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1 shifted the distribution significantly towards the wild-type distribution. The distribution was broader compared with that of wild-type and atlazy1 plants, possibly because of variation in the chromosomal position of the transgene insertion site. Transformation with pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1K252A/K253A rescued the phenotype as well as pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1 (Figure 9c,d), and suggested that K252A/K253A mutations did not significantly affect this rescue. [[FIGURE]] Whether the K252A/K253A mutations prevented nuclear localization in these plants could not be definitively determined, because the transgene did not include GFP. The small size of the native AtLAZY1 protein (40.52 kDa) might allow its passive entrance to the nucleus (Paine et al., CITATION). As nuclear accumulation of the eGFP-tagged versions of AtLAZY1 clearly requires an intact NLS (Figure 8), atlazy1 mutants were transformed with eGFP-fusion constructs containing or not containing the NLS mutations, i.e. with pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP or pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A. As shown in Figure 9(e), pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP shifted the branch angle distribution towards the wild-type distribution (Figure 9a), although the shift was somewhat less than that caused by pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1 (Figure 9c).The eGFP insertion somehow negatively affected AtLAZY1 function. As shown in Figure 9(f), a similar shift was observed in the plants transformed with pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFPK252A/K253A. This result strongly indicates that nuclear localization of AtLAZY1 is not required for its function in the control of gravitropic branch orientation.
!~MM~! The wild type used in all experiments was the Columbia ecotype (Col-0) of A. thaliana obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (uNASC, http://arabidopsis.info), as was the atlazy1 T-DNA insertion line (GABI_591A12). For physiological experiments using seedlings, seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on minimal salt medium [1 mm KCl, 1 mm CaCl2, 5 mm MES, adjusted to pH 5.7 with BisTris propane, 0.7% (w/v) agar]. For hypocotyl gravitropism, seedlings were grown along the surface of vertical agar plates for 2 days in darkness, then selected by uniformity and hypocotyl length (5–7 mm), and transferred onto a new plate. Gravitropic stimulation was given 1–2 h after transfer by rotating the plates by 90°C. Dim green light was used for the manipulation of the seedlings in darkness. For inflorescence stem gravitropism, plants were grown on commercial soil for 4–5 weeks in a growth chamber (100 μmol m−2 s−1 12-h/12-h light/dark cycles). Inflorescence stems that reached 7–9 cm were detached at the base and inserted into a cylinder (2 mm in diameter and 10 mm long). The basal end (1–2 cm) was bound with layers of wet Kimwipes (Kimberly–Clark, http://www.kimberly&#x2013;clark.com), so that the length of the upper parts sticking out from a cylinder was 5 cm. Plants were adapted on the imaging stage for 2–3 h before gravitropic stimulation. The imaging of the plants began just after the 90°C rotation. For the lateral branch angle measurement, plants were grown on commercial soil for 4–5 weeks until the secondary lateral shoot lengths grew to more than 6 cm. The primary inflorescence stems were detached from the base and scanned on a flat-bed scanner. Branch angles were determined by drawing a tangent line on each stem, as shown in Figure 2(d) at 5 mm from the junction of the main shoot and the lateral shoot, and the angle between the two tangent lines was measured using ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij). Full-length LAZY1 and AtLAZY1 protein sequences are used as queries in a BLASTP search for TAIR9 Proteins (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/index.jsp), the MSU Rice Genome Annotation Project (http://rice.plantbiology.msu.edu/blast.shtml) and Phytozome 4.0 (http://www.phytozome.net/search.php) databases. Alignment of amino acid sequences was performed using T-COFFEE (Notredame et al., CITATION, http://www.tcoffee.org/Projects_home_page/t_coffee_home_page.html). The full-length cDNA sequence of AtLAZY1 expressed in atlazy1 was obtained by using a GeneRacer kit (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com), according to the manufacturer's instruction. Primers used for RACE analysis of this cDNA were summarized in Table S1. For the expression analysis of AtLAZY1, total RNA was isolated from 5-day-old, light-grown seedlings. The frozen samples were ground with pestles in microtubes, and total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com), including the treatment with RNase-free DNase (Qiagen). cDNAs were synthesized with the Dynamo cDNA Synthesis Kit (Finnzymes, http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/finnzymes) using an oligo (dT)15 primer. Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using an Mx3000P QPCR system (Stratagene, http://www.genomics.agilent.com), with a Dynamo HS SYBR Green qPCR Kit (Finnzymes). Triplicate analyses of four biological replicates were performed. ACTIN2 (ACT2) was used as an internal control. The primers used are listed in Table S1. All promoters and genes were obtained by PCR, and the resultant fragments were subcloned into pGEM-T-Easy (Promega, http://www.promega.com) for sequence confirmation before proceeding to further steps, unless otherwise stated. All primers used in this study were listed in Table S1. For RNAi analysis, a trigger sequence (500 bp) for RNAi was amplified from AtLAZY1 cDNA and subcloned into the entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). The subcloned trigger sequence was recombined into the destination vector pHellslgate12 (Helliwell and Waterhouse, CITATION) by LR clonase reaction of the Gateway system (Invitrogen). The binary vector was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, GV3101. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). For the complementation test, the wild-type genomic fragment (4.1 kb) of AtLAZY1 (At5g14090) containing 1.9 kb of the predicted promoter region and 0.4 kb of the 3′untranslated region (3′-UTR) was amplified with PacI and BamHI sites. The resultant fragment was subcloned and recloned into the PacI/BamHI site in the binary vector pEGAD (Cutler et al., CITATION). For a promoter-GUS reporter analyses, the promoter region (2.1 kb) of AtLAZY1 was amplified with HindIII and XbaI sites by PCR from genomic Arabidopsis DNA. The resultant fragment was subcloned and recloned into the HindIII/XbaI sites in the binary vector, pBI101-Hm (Akama et al., CITATION). For a promoter–reporter analysis using eGFP, the promoter region of the AtLAZY1 (3.9 kb) was amplified with PacI and AgeI sites. The resultant fragment was subcloned and recloned into the PacI/AgeI sites in the binary vector, pEGAD. pAtLAZY1:AtLAZY1-eGFP was created to visualize subcellular localization and to check whether it was functional. AtLAZY1-eGFP, which has eGFP insertions, was generated by three-step PCR (Grandori et al., CITATION). The entire genomic sequence from a start codon to 3′-UTR of AtLAZY1 and an eGFP sequence were amplified by using the primers on Table S1. The eGFP sequence was recloned from the pEGAD vector. After constructing an AtLAZY1 genomic fragment, which has an eGFP insertion, AtLAZY1-eGFP was fused with the AtLAZY1 promoter region by the overlap extension PCR method (Ho et al., CITATION). The primers used for the 5′ end of AtLAZY1 promoter region and the 3′ end have the PacI site and the BamHI site, respectively. These amplified fragments were subcloned and recloned into the PacI/BamHI site of the binary vector pEGAD. For transient expression in N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells, p35S:AtLAZY1-eGFP was constructed. The fragment AtLAZY1-eGFP was amplified with PacI and BamHI sites from the subclones listed above. The resultant fragments were subcloned and recloned into the PacI/BamHI site in the binary vector pEGAD. For the transient expression by heat shock, pHSP18.2:AtLAZY1-eGFP was constructed. A promoter region of HSP18.2 was cloned from a wild-type genomic DNA by PCR. AtLAZY1-eGFP was fused with pHSP18.2 by the overlap extension PCR method. The resultant fragments were recloned into the PacI/BamHI site of pEGAD. To express TGA5 as a nuclear marker in N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells, p35S:mRFP-TGA5 was constructed. The bZIP transcription factor TGA5 (Kim and Delaney, CITATION) is localized to the nucleus (Kato et al., CITATION; Schornack et al., CITATION). TGA5 was amplified with SalI and BamHI sites and subcloned. The SalI/BamHI fragment of TGA5 was recloned into the SalI/BamHI site of pSAT6-mRFP-C1 (Citovsky et al., CITATION), yielding the expression cassette of p35S:mRFP-TGA5. The PI-PspI fragment containing the expression cassette was recloned into the PI-PspI site of the binary vector pPZP-RCS2 (Goderis et al., CITATION). To introduce mutations into the predicted NLSs, we conducted site-directed mutagenesis by using the Phusion site-directed mutagenesis kit (Finnzymes), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The primer sets used are listed in Table S1. The subcloned fragments in pGEM-T-Easy obtained as listed above were subjected to site-directed mutagenesis and recloned into pEGAD after sequence confirmation. The imaging of seedlings was performed according to the method described by Wang et al. (CITATION). In brief, vertical Petri plates with seedlings growing along the surface of the agar were mounted transversely to the optical axis of a CCD camera (Marlin F-146B; AVTech Corporation, http://www.avtcorp.com) outfitted with a close-focus zoom lens (model R72; Tokina Co., http://www.tokinalens.com). An infrared light source (model BL1960-660; Advanced Illumination Inc., http://www.advancedillumination.com), with a peak output at 880 nm, was placed behind the Petri plate for back illumination, allowing image acquisition during the gravitropic response to proceed in total darkness (Miller et al., CITATION). The imaging of inflorescence stem gravitropism was performed under dim red light (4–6 μmol m−2 s−1; peak output at 660 nm). Although red light acting through phytochromes can induce phototropism in roots (Kiss et al., CITATION), in shoots it conditions the blue light sensing pathways (Janoudi et al., CITATION) more than provides directional cues to affect phototropism. In order to maintain a constant level of phytochrome activation while minimizing phototropic signals, the sample-mounting stage was equipped with switchable red-LEDs above and beside the mounting stage so that red light was delivered to the top of the shoot before and after rotation began the gravitropic stimulation. For imaging purposes, infrared LEDs with a peak output at 940 nm were placed behind the plant samples. The CCD camera was outfitted with an 8-mm focal-length lens (M0814-MP; Computar®) and a long-pass filter made with infrared transmitting plexiglass (ACRY11460; Ridout Plastics Co., http://www.ridoutplastics.com). Tissues were immersed in staining solution [100 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 1 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 1 mm potassium ferricyanide, 1 mm X-gluc], vacuum infiltrated for 30 min and incubated at 37°C for 3–24 h. Chlorophyll was removed in 70% (v/v) ethanol at 4°C. Leaves from N. benthamiana were injected with A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring expression vectors (Wroblewski et al., CITATION). A single colony of Agrobacterium harboring expression vectors was inoculated into 4 ml of Luria-Bertani broth, supplemented with 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin and 50 μg ml−1 gentamycin. The bacterial culture was incubated at 29°C with agitation overnight. The bacteria were pelleted by centrifugation at 2500 g for 1.5 min in a microcentrifuge. The pellet was resuspended in deionized distilled water so that the final Agrobacterium concentration was between OD600 0.3 and 0.4. Resuspended culture was injected into the abaxial side of the leaf and the injected leaves were left attached until observation. For FM4-64 treatment, N. benthamiana leaves were segmented and floated on solution containing 50 μmol FM4-64 and vacuum-infiltrated for 15 min just before the observation. Confocal microscopy was performed on an LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss, http://corporate.zeiss.com). The optics employed were a plan-apo-chromat 20 × lens, a C-Apochromat 40 × water immersion lens. The sample was excited with a 488-nm laser line for GFP, YFP and propidium iodide signal, and with a 543-nm laser line for mRFP and FM4-64 signal, from a 30-mW argon gas laser. Channel mode detection was used to record the emission of GFP (excitation, 488 nm; emission, 500–530 nm) or RFP (excitation, 543 nm; emission, 565–615 nm) for subcellular localization.
