!~ABS~! Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) provides a crucial precursor, deoxythymidine monophosphate, for nucleic acid synthesis, and the activity of TK1 increases by up to 200‐fold during the S‐phase of cell division in humans. An important part of the regulatory checkpoints is the ATP and enzyme concentration‐dependent transition of TK1 from a dimer with low catalytic efficiency to a tetramer with high catalytic efficiency. This regulatory fine‐tuning serves as an additional control to provide a balanced pool of nucleic acid precursors in the cell. We subcloned and over‐expressed 10 different TK1s, originating from widely different organisms, and characterized their kinetic and oligomerization properties. Whilst bacteria, plants and Dictyostelium only exhibited dimeric TK1, we found that all animals had a tetrameric TK1. However, a clear ATP‐dependent switch between dimer and tetramer was found only in higher vertebrates and was especially pronounced in mammalian and bird TK1s. We suggest that the dimer form is the original form and that the tetramer originated in the animal lineage after the split of Dictyostelium and the lineages leading to invertebrates and vertebrates. The efficient switching mechanism was probably first established in warm‐blooded animals when they separated from the rest of the vertebrates. 
!~RES~! We attempted to determine the origin of a structural shift in TK1, which serves as a part of the regulatory checkpoint and has been reported in HsTK1 CITATION. Therefore, a set of organisms was selected and the rationale behind the selection was that the selected organisms would cover as many different life forms as possible and that the genomic sequences and source of cDNA were available. The names of the organisms, abbreviations used for respective enzymes and their calculated monomer sizes are given in Table 1. An important aspect was also the presence of only one copy of the TK1 gene in the genome of all examined organisms, with the exception of Arabidopsis thaliana, which has two TK1s CITATION. It should be stressed that so far in a majority of organisms, dNKs, including TK1, have not been studied. In addition, insects do not have a TK1 homolog, but the dNK activities are carried out by a single multisubstrate dNK. The phylogenetic analysis of the TK1s from these organisms showed that the vertebrates clustered into a group of their own (Fig. 1). Their internal relationship overlaps, to a large degree, with the organism relationships. Dictyostelium discoideum TK1 and Caenorhabditis elegans TK1 were positioned as expected, close to the vertebrate cluster. Plant and bacterial TK1s were clustered into a separate group. We did not include any TK1s from Gram‐negative bacteria because they belong to a different TK1 subfamily exhibiting different biochemical properties CITATION.  [[FIGURE]] The ORF for each TK1 was inserted into the pGEX‐2T vector and expressed as fusion protein with an N‐terminal glutathione S‐transferase (GST) sequence, and all the fusion proteins were purified to more than 95% homogeneity by GST affinity chromatography, as judged by SDS/PAGE. The TK1 part was cleaved, in situ, from the GST part by thrombin before the oligomeric and kinetic properties were determined. The purified enzymes were diluted to 200 nm, which is estimated to be the physiological concentration of HsTK1 at the peak of the S‐phase CITATION. At this enzyme concentration, HsTK1 is a dimer in the absence of ATP but is converted to the tetramer form in the presence of ATP concentrations above 1 mm. The diluted enzymes were incubated without ATP or with 3 mm ATP and then subjected to gel‐filtration and kinetic analyses following the procedure previously used for HsTK1 CITATION, CITATION. Note that the enzyme dilutions preincubated with and without 3 mm ATP are referred to as the +ATP and the −ATP forms, respectively, throughout this paper.  The purified recombinant TK1s were studied for their kinetic properties (Km and Vmax) and for their oligomerization properties (i.e. appearance of the enzyme as a dimer or a tetramer). The elution profiles from gel‐filtration analyses and TK kinetics given as initial velocities (v) versus substrate concentration (S) of all the purified TK1s are shown in Figs 2 and 3, respectively. Molecular mass values (obtained using gel filtration) and kinetic properties are given in Table 2. It is worth mentioning that size determination using native gel electrophoresis gave similar results (data not shown). We chose gel filtration as a tool to study the level of oligomerization because this method can be used with low concentrations of TK1. Very high concentrations of the enzyme can result in ‘physiologically irrelevant’ oligomerization forms (data not shown). In the following, the results for each TK1 are described in detail.  52 ± 4 32 ± 3 98 ± 4 64 ± 3 [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Gel‐filtration analysis showed that Bacillus cereus (Bc)TK1–ATP and BcTK1+ATP eluted with molecular mass values of 43 kDa and 59 kDa, respectively (Fig. 2). These molecular mass values correspond to relative molecular mass values of 2.0 and 2.7, respectively, and indicate that the native form of BcTK1 is a dimer, irrespective of the presence of ATP. Also, the kinetics parameters were similar for the two forms. The Vmax values were 5.7 and 5.3 U·mg−1, and the Km values were 0.7 and 0.6 μm for the –ATP and +ATP forms, respectively (Table 2). In short, no dimer–tetramer shift and no tetramer TK1 with a low Km were detected in B. cereus. Another bacterial TK1 from Polaribacter sp. CITATION also appeared as dimer and showed similar oligomerization behavior (data not shown).  Both TK1 genes present in A. thaliana encoded active enzymes. However, the gel‐filtration analysis showed different elution profiles. AtTK1a–ATP eluted as two peaks of 52 kDa and 32 kDa. These molecular mass values correspond to relative molecular mass values of 2 and 1.2, respectively, which indicates that AtTK1–ATP occurs as a mixture of a dimer and a monomer. Apparently, ATP induced the monomer to become a dimer, as AtTK1a+ATP eluted as a single peak with a mass of 56 kDa which corresponds to a relative mass of 2.1 (i.e. a dimer). The Km values for both forms were quite similar i.e. 0.6 and 0.7 μm for −ATP and +ATP forms of AtTK1a respectively.  With AtTK1b, both the –ATP and +ATP forms eluted as single peaks with similar molecular mass values of 49 kDa, giving relative molecular mass values of 1.6 for both forms. This suggests that AtTK1b is a dimer, irrespective of the presence of ATP. The Km values of both forms were identical for both forms i.e. 0.9 μm. (Table 2). In conclusion, the two TK1 enzymes from A. thaliana behaved in a similar way with respect to both kinetics and molecular mass values and none were found as tetramers with low Km values.  The molecular mass of DdTK1 did not change with the presence of ATP, the elution profiles for the –ATP and +ATP forms overlapped and the molecular mass values were 57 kDa and 61 kDa, which correspond to relative molecular mass values of 2.2 and 2.4, respectively. This showed that DdTK1 occurred as a dimer regardless of the presence of ATP. The two forms had nearly the same Vmax – 17.3 U·mg−1 for the −ATP form and 18 U·mg−1 for the +ATP form – but different Km values, where that of the −ATP form was 3.3‐fold higher (7.8 μm) than that of the +ATP form (2.4 μm). However, the 3.3‐fold difference in Km values was almost 10‐fold less than the difference between the Km values for the human +ATP and –ATP forms. In short, no tetramer TK1 with a low Km was found for D. discoideum.  CeTK1 eluted as a tetramer, in the absence as well as in the presence of ATP, with similar elution profiles. The molecular mass values were estimated to be 130 and 134 kDa for −ATP and +ATP forms respectively. This corresponds to relative molecular mass values of 4.4 and 4.5 (i.e. tetramer forms). The kinetics of the two forms was very similar with Km values in the same range and below 1 (i.e. 0.9 and 0.6 μm for −ATP and +ATP forms, respectively). Thus, TK1 from C. elegans adopted a tetramer form with low Km, but the dimer–tetramer and Km regulatory switches were not observed.  The elution profiles for Danio rerio (Dr)TK1 indicated tetrameric forms for both the −ATP and the +ATP TK1s. The molecular mass values were 82 kDa for DrTK1–ATP and 99 kDa for DrTK1+ATP, giving relative molecular mass values of 3.2 and 3.9, respectively. The Km values were very similar and in the low range, 0.6 and 1.4 μm for −ATP and +ATP forms, respectively. However, there was a larger difference between the maximal velocities of the two forms compared with the other TK1s because the Vmax of the +ATP form was nearly four‐fold higher than that of the −ATP form. This difference may suggest an activating effect by ATP. In short, DrTK1 adopted a tetramer form with low Km, but the dimer–tetramer shift was not observed.  Xenopus tropicalis (Xt)TK1–ATP eluted with two peaks with molecular mass values of 98 kDa and 64 kDa, giving relative molecular mass values of 3.7 and 2.4. This indicated that XtTK1–ATP occurred as both a tetramer and a dimer. XtTK1+ATP eluted with a molecular mass of 104 kDa, corresponding to a relative molecular mass of 3.9, indicating a tetramer form. The kinetics of XtTK1 showed a clear difference between the –ATP and +ATP forms. The Km for the −ATP form was high (17.4 μm), whereas the Km for the +ATP form was low (1.6 μm). The Vmax values were nearly the same. Therefore, XtTK1 showed more similarity to the HsTK1 with an ATP‐induced shift from a mixture of a dimer and tetramer to a tetramer form, where the +ATP form had about 11‐fold higher catalytic efficiency than the –ATP form. In short, XtTK1 showed a tendency to undergo dimer–tetramer and Km shifts, although the dimer form was not prominent.  Anolis carolinensis (Ac)TK1 showed a dimer–tetramer pattern in its elution profile. Without ATP, the peak of the elution profile corresponded to a molecular mass of 57 kDa, giving a relative molecular mass of 2.2, indicating a dimer. The rather broad profile and the shoulder at about 200 kDa suggested a mixture of different molecular mass values, predominated by the dimer. In the presence of ATP, the profile was narrow with one sharp peak that corresponded to a molecular mass of 91 and a relative molecular mass of 3.5, which indicated a tetramer form. The Km values were similar, being 2.0 μm for the −ATP form and 2.5 μm for the +ATP form. There was a minor difference in the Vmax values, with that of the +ATP form (4.6 U·mg−1) being 1.5‐fold higher than that of the −ATP form (3.1 U·mg−1). In short, AcTK1 adopted the dimer–tetramer switch but not the Km switch.  The chicken (Gallus gallus) TK1 (GgTK1) had a clear pattern of ATP‐dependent oligomerization from a dimer to a tetramer. The −ATP peak eluted with a molecular mass of 46 kDa and the +ATP peak eluted with a molecular mass of 88 kDa, corresponding to relative molecular mass values of 1.8 and 3.5 respectively. The kinetics also depended on ATP pre‐incubation because the Km values were 12 μm for GgTK1–ATP and 1.2 μm for GgTK1 + ATP, giving a ratio of 10 between the Km values. The Vmax values of the two forms were nearly the same, 7.9 and 7.8 U mg−1 for the −ATP and +ATP forms, respectively. This gives a 10‐fold difference in catalytic efficiency. In short, GgTK1 exhibited both the dimer–tetramer and high–low Km regulatory switches.  In the absence of ATP, rat (Rattus norvegicus) TK1 (RnTK1) eluted with a molecular mass of 55 kDa, giving a relative molecular mass of 2.1, corresponding to a dimer. In the presence of ATP, the elution profile gave a molecular mass of 95.2 kDa, and this gave a relative molecular mass of 3.7, corresponding to a tetramer. Regarding the kinetics, ATP pre‐incubation also showed a significant effect. The Km values were 17.4 μm for the –ATP form but ATP incubation gave a 58‐fold lower Km of only 0.3 μm. The Vmax value for the –ATP form was 6.1 U·mg−1 while for the +ATP form, it was 4.9 U·mg−1. In conclusion, RnTK1 also showed the dimer–tetramer switch accompanied by the high–low Km switch. 
!~MM~! Glutathione Sepharose™ matrix, Superdex™ 200 10/30 GL column, pGEX‐2T vector and bovine thrombin were purchased from GE Healthcare (Uppsala, Sweden). 3H‐labelled dThd (20 Ci·mmol−1, 740 GBq·mmol−1) was purchased from PerkinElmer (Waltham, MA, USA). Nonradioactive dThd, molecular size markers and all chemicals, if not stated otherwise, were of high purity and were purchased from Sigma‐Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA). Enzymes and other standard components used in molecular cloning and PCR were purchased from either Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. (Waltham, MA, USA) or from New England Biolabs (Ipswich, MA, USA). Sequencing of the constructs and the synthesis of primers used for cloning were carried out using a commercial source (MWG‐Biotech, Ebersberg, Germany).  Chemically competent Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS were purchased from Invitrogen, Life Technologies (Grand Island, NY, USA). Recombinant BcTK1, DdTK1 and CeTK1 had previously been purified in our laboratory using the same method as described below.  The ORFs of different TK1s (Table 1) were identified in GenBank using the HsTK1 ORF in Blast analysis and only one TK1 gene was found in the genome of each organism, except Arabidopsis thaliana. The TK1 ORFs were amplified from cDNA libraries by PCR using specific primers with BamHI and EcoRI overhangs for cloning. Using standard cloning procedures, amplified ORFs were cloned into the pGEX‐2T expression vectors. (The sequences of primers used for cloning are described in Table S1). It is pertinent to mention that there is 62% amino‐acid sequence identity between AtTK1a and AtTK1b. The N‐terminus is extended in AtTK1b and contains a putative organelle localization signal. Therefore, a mutant deleted for the first 45 amino acids was constructed previously in the laboratory and named AtTK1b‐dN45.  Expression of the recombinant GST‐tagged enzymes in E. coli BL21 was induced with 0.1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside (IPTG), using the optimal induction period determined for each enzyme. Thereafter, the induced enzymes were purified by GST affinity chromatography followed by thrombin cleavage, as described previously CITATION. The protein concentration was determined using the Bradford method CITATION and the purity was analyzed by SDS/PAGE.  The recombinant TK1s were diluted to a concentration of 200 nm (calculated using the subunit theoretical mass) in pre‐incubation buffer (50 mm imidazole/HCl (pH 7.5), 1 mm dithiothreitol, 100 mm KCl, 2 mm CHAPS, 5 mm MgCl2 and 10% glycerol), followed by incubation with or without 3 mm ATP for 2 h at 4 °C before storage at −80 °C for at least 2 days before analysis.  The apparent molecular size of the +ATP and −ATP TK1s was determined by gel‐filtration chromatography, using a Superdex™ 200 10/30 GL column connected to a FPLC system (GE Healthcare). The column was pre‐equilibrated with column buffer (50 mm imidazole/HCl (pH 7.5), 5 mm MgCl2, 0.1 M KCl, 1 mm CHAPS and 1 mm dithiothreitol). When analyzing the +ATP TK1s, ATP was added to the column buffer to a final concentration of 2 mm. The column was calibrated with the following marker proteins: β‐amylase (200 kDa), BSA (66 kDa), ovalbumin (45 kDa), carbonic anhydrase (30 kDa) and RNAse (13.7 kDa). Blue Dextran was used to determine the void volume, V0. The coefficient of variation in Ve/V0 (where Ve is the elution volume of the respective marker or protein) for the markers was < 1.5%, as determined from more than 50 separate elution profiles of marker proteins. In each experiment, 200 μL of the respective enzyme dilution was applied to the column and eluted with a flow rate of 400 μL·min−1. Elution fractions of 400 μL were collected into 200 μL of column buffer containing 30% glycerol and 2 mm ATP to stabilize the eluted enzyme. The fractions were assayed for TK activity under standard conditions using 100 μm dThd. The molecular mass of the respective enzyme was calculated from the Ve of the peak fraction of the enzyme activity. It should be borne in mind that this method in reality measures hydrodynamic properties. However, our results were also confirmed by the native gel‐electrophoresis approach.  TK activity was determined from initial velocities obtained using the DE‐81 filter paper radiometric assay described previously CITATION, CITATION. Standard assay conditions were: 50 mm Tris/HCl (pH 8.0), 2.5 mm MgCl2, 10 mm dithiothreitol, 0.5 mm CHAPS, 3 mg·mL−1 of BSA and varying concentrations of 3H‐labelled dThd in a total volume of 50 μL. ATP was adjusted to a final concentration of 2.5 mm. The radioactivity was determined using a scintillation counter (PerkinElmer). One unit (u) is the amount of enzyme that converts 1 nmol of substrate to product per minute, and 1 UNIT (U) = 1000 u. Kinetic parameters were obtained by determining the velocities (v) at various substrate concentrations (S) and fitting the data by nonlinear regression analysis to the Michaelis–Menten equation: v = Vmax × [S]/(Km + [S]) using a computer program, graphpad prism version 5.04 for windows (GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA, USA; www.graphpad.com). 
