!~ABS~! Imbibed seeds of the Arabidopsis thaliana accession Djarly are affected in mucilage release from seed coat epidermal cells. The impaired locus was identified as a pectin methylesterase inhibitor gene, PECTIN METHYLESTERASE INHIBITOR6 (PMEI6), specifically expressed in seed coat epidermal cells at the time when mucilage polysaccharides are accumulated. This spatio-temporal regulation appears to be modulated by GLABRA2 and LEUNIG HOMOLOG/MUCILAGE MODIFIED1, as expression of PMEI6 is reduced in mutants of these transcription regulators. In pmei6, mucilage release was delayed and outer cell walls of epidermal cells did not fragment. Pectin methylesterases (PMEs) demethylate homogalacturonan (HG), and the majority of HG found in wild-type mucilage was in fact derived from outer cell wall fragments. This correlated with the absence of methylesterified HG labeling in pmei6, whereas transgenic plants expressing the PMEI6 coding sequence under the control of the 35S promoter had increased labeling of cell wall fragments. Activity tests on seeds from pmei6 and 35S:PMEI6 transgenic plants showed that PMEI6 inhibits endogenous PME activities, in agreement with reduced overall methylesterification of mucilage fractions and demucilaged seeds. Another regulator of PME activity in seed coat epidermal cells, the subtilisin-like Ser protease SBT1.7, acts on different PMEs, as a pmei6 sbt1.7 mutant showed an additive phenotype.
!~RES~! Seeds of new accessions obtained from central Asia (http://www.inra.fr/vast/collections.htm) were imbibed in the pectin dye ruthenium red, and the Djarly accession, from Kyrgyzstan, was found not to release mucilage (cf. Figures 1B and 1A). The gene affecting mucilage release in Djarly was identified using map-based cloning; the affected locus was localized between 19.520 and 19.585 Mb on chromosome 2. Homozygous mutants were obtained for 18 insertion lines in 15 of the 22 annotated genes (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and their seeds analyzed for mucilage release. Only one mutant had seeds with a phenotype equivalent to Djarly, and this had an insertion in the gene At2g47670, predicted to encode a PMEI that we named PMEI6 (Figures 1C and 1G). Two additional insertion mutant alleles, pmei6-2 and pmei6-3, were obtained, and neither released mucilage when they were imbibed with ruthenium red (Figures 1D, 1E, and 1G). To test for allelism, pmei6-1 was crossed to Djarly, pmei6-2, and pmei6-3, and in all cases, F1 and F2 seed coats did not release mucilage (Figure 1F; data not shown); the Djarly mutant allele was termed pmei6-4. Furthermore, seeds from the backcrossed pmei6-1 mutant still exhibited the phenotype. The release of mucilage from F1 seed coats of F2 seeds used for mapping or from the backcross indicated that pmei6-1 and pmei6-4 mutant alleles were recessive and maternally inherited. [[FIGURE]] To identify the nature of the mutant allele in the Djarly accession, the At2g47670 gene was sequenced and three nucleotide polymorphisms were identified compared with Columbia-0 (Col-0). The first substituted Ser-110 for Arg, the second at Leu-159 was a synonymous mutation, and the third caused a frameshift mutation due to a 1-bp insertion 581 bp after the ATG codon that changed amino acids 194 to 205 followed by the introduction of a stop codon (Figure 1G). PMEIs inhibit PMEs through the formation of a reversible 1:1 complex (CITATION; CITATION). Structural studies have shown that PMEIs have two distinct functional domains: an α-helical hairpin structure that stabilizes the PME:PMEI complex and a C-terminal bundle domain that interacts directly with the PME active site, thereby blocking substrate access (CITATION). Modeling of the effects of the Djarly mutations on PMEI tertiary structure indicated that the bundle domain would be modified, in particular the α7 helix predicted to interact with the PME binding cleft, which would explain the lack of PMEI6 function (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) (CITATION). Molecular complementation of the pmei6-1 mutant phenotype was also performed; the mutant was transformed with a construct containing the PMEI6 coding sequence (CDS) downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and 16 independent transformants were obtained. When seeds were sown on agarose plates, mucilage release was restored in at least 60% of seeds from all 16 transformants compared with <22% in the pmei6-1 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). The expression of PMEI6 was analyzed in the pmei6-1 mutant by RT-PCR on RNA extracts from developing seeds using PMEI6-specific primers situated either side of the pmei6-1 insertion at the 5′ and 3′ extremities of PMEI6 (Figure 1G). Amplification of the control gene EF1α4 was similar in the wild type and pmei6-1 (Figure 1H). By contrast, no amplification was obtained using primers on either side of the pmei6-1 T-DNA insertion site and encompassing the entire CDS, indicating that no full-length transcript was recreated by splicing out the T-DNA insertion and that the pmei6-1 mutant is a knockout. Reduced fragment amplification was observed in the mutant for the PMEI6 5′ region, compared with the wild type, and only a faint fragment was observed for the PMEI6 3′ region that could result from a low level of transcript reinitiation from within the T-DNA insertion (Figure 1H). Unlike the wild type, pmei6 mutant seeds did not release mucilage within the first few minutes of imbibition in ruthenium red. Nevertheless, it was noted that mucilage was released from pmei6 seeds when imbibition time was increased, indicating that mucilage release was delayed (Figures 2A to 2D). In addition to this delay, the outer primary cell wall did not break up and leave fragments attached to the top of columella; instead, it was observed attached to the hilum, as a large sheet of cell wall (Figure 2D). To quantify this delay in mucilage release, soluble extracts were measured for GalA contents after imbibition of seeds for different lengths of time in water (Figure 2E). The mucilage release rate for mutant seeds was less than half that of the wild type: Vmax[wild type] = 0.17 mg−1⋅min−1 compared with Vmax[pmei6-1] = 0.07 mg−1⋅min−1 and Vmax[pmei6-2] = 0.06 mg−1⋅min−1. Furthermore, the total amount of GalA released from pmei6-1 and pmei6-2 seeds never reached wild-type levels, even after 24 h of imbibition (Figure 2E). Ruthenium red staining intensity and the thickness of the adherent mucilage appeared the same in the wild type and pmei6-1 after imbibition in either water or the cation chelator EDTA (Figures 2C and 2D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] In accordance with the delayed mucilage release observed for pmei6 seeds, available in silico expression data indicated highest expression levels in whole siliques or seeds and in particular the seed coat (CITATION; http://seedgenenetwork.net/arabidopsis); expression observed in other tissues, such as stems and flowers buds, was weak in comparison (CITATION). To confirm these data and to determine in which silique tissues PMEI6 is expressed, quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed on dissected seeds, silique envelopes, and whole siliques at developmental stages when mucilage polysaccharides are produced and deposited (8, 10, 12, and 14 d after pollination [DAP]). PMEI6 expression was highest in developing seeds at 8 DAP, corresponding to seeds with torpedo stage embryos (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). A diminution of transcript accumulation was observed at later stages, in agreement with in silico transcriptome data. To obtain more detailed information about the spatial expression of PMEI6 within the seed, β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene expression was observed in the pmei6-3 mutant. This mutant was generated using an enhancer trap Ds element that contains the GUS reporter gene (CITATION). In pmei6-3, the GUS gene is correctly orientated for control by the endogenous PMEI6 promoter. In addition, wild-type transformants containing a translational fusion with GFP were examined and in situ hybridization performed using a PMEI6-specific probe. The PMEI6-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) produced was not functional, since the phenotypes of the pmei6-1 mutant were not restored when transformed with the same construct. For reporter gene analyses, cell walls were counterstained with propidium iodide to facilitate visualization. Analyses were performed on the same four seed developmental stages as for qRT-PCR. Expression of PMEI6 transcripts and protein was observed to be specific to the epidermal cells of the seed coat. At 10 DAP, expression delimited the cytoplasm found at the base of the epidermal cells and in a column containing accumulated starch granules (see Supplemental Figures 4B, 4D, 4F, 4H, 4J, and 4L online). As seed coat differentiation progresses, secondary cell wall material accumulated to form the columella and reinforce radial cell walls. The column of cytoplasm was thus reduced at 14 DAP, and PMEI6 expression was observed in this restricted cytoplasm (see Supplemental Figures 4C, 4E, 4G, 4I, 4K, and 4M online). The structure of mutant seed coat epidermal cells was examined in more detail by scanning electron microscopy on mature dry seeds. The epidermal cells of both wild-type and pmei6-1 mutant seeds were equivalent in size and morphology with a characteristic polygonal form and a central columella (see Supplemental Figures 5A to 5D online). No difference in the outer and radial cell walls was observed that could explain the delay in mucilage release and the nonfragmentation of the outer cell wall in pmei6. Developing seed coat epidermal cells from the pmei6-1 mutant were also compared with the wild type in seed sections staged from 8 to 14 DAP (see Supplemental Figures 5E to 5L online). Cell structure and the timing of differentiation looked the same; in particular, outer and radial cell walls and mucilage accumulation appeared unchanged. The adherent mucilage layer of wild-type Col-0 has previously been shown to be composed of two domains that both contain HG as a minor component. The DM of this HG is variable, being moderate in the inner domain and high in the outer domain (CITATION; Figures 3A and 3B). To determine whether PMEI6 influences this DM, whole-mount immunolabeling was performed on mature dry seeds of wild-type, pmei6-1, and PMEI6 overexpressor lines (PMEI6ox) (wild-type plants transformed with the same 35S:PMEI6 construct used to complement the pmei6-1 mutant that show higher steady state levels of PMEI6 transcripts in developing seeds; see Supplemental Figure 6A online). Seeds were costained for β-glycans present in the epidermal cell columella and cell walls, as well as cellulose in the mucilage, using the fluorescent probe Calcofluor (CITATION; CITATION). In the pmei6-1 mutant, neither moderately nor highly methyl-esterified HGs were detectable with JIM5 and JIM7 antibodies, respectively (Figures 3C and 3D). By contrast, labeling with both JIM antibodies was increased in PMEI6ox (Figures 3E and 3F) compared with the wild type (Figures 3A and 3B). Similar increases in labeling were also observed for pmei6-1 seeds complemented with the same construct (see Supplemental Figures 2E to 2H online). Furthermore, Calcofluor labeling in the pmei6-1 mutant showed naked columella, with no fragments from outer cell wall breakage attached to their tops (Figures 3C and 3D). [[FIGURE]] To determine if PMEI6 acts as an inhibitor of PME activity found in seeds, assays were performed using total protein extracts from mature dry seeds of the wild type, pmei6, and PMEI6ox; PME activities were normalized to the average wild-type activity (Figure 4A). Activity levels were higher in pmei6-1 mutant seeds, with a 14% increase in global PME activity. In addition, PME activity was decreased in seeds of overexpressor lines by 40% compared with the wild type. Similarly, activity levels were reduced in three pmei6-1 transformants complemented with the same 35S:PMEI6 construct (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). PME activity was also determined for proteins released with soluble mucilage from imbibed seeds, which correspond to proteins present in the apoplasmic mucilage pocket of seed coat epidermal cells (Figure 4B). The diameters of activity halos and their staining intensity showed the same tendencies as for whole seeds, with higher and lower PME activities in pmei6-1 and PMEI6ox-21, respectively, compared with the wild type. [[FIGURE]] Water-soluble mucilage, adherent mucilage, and demucilaged seeds were obtained from the wild type, pmei6-1, and pmei6-2 mutants using a sequential extraction procedure (see Supplemental Figure 7 online) and analyzed for their sugar and methanol contents. As the major component of Arabidopsis mucilage is RG I, the majority of sugars present in the soluble and adherent mucilage from the wild type were Rha and GalA in a molar ratio close to 1, in agreement with previous studies (Table 1) (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In pmei6-1 and pmei6-2 soluble mucilage, a reduction in total sugars of up to 50% was observed, which was mainly due to a reduction in Rha and GalA (Table 1). By contrast, adherent mucilage total sugars increased by over 25% in pmei6-1 and pmei6-2, again due to modified Rha and GalA contents (Table 1). The pmei6 mutants thus showed a redistribution of water-soluble to adherent mucilage; in the wild type, water-soluble mucilage represented ∼63% of total mucilage, whereas in pmei6 mutants, this was reduced to <50% (Table 1). Furthermore, an overall reduction in mucilage total sugars was measured in mutant extracts, as previously observed in mucilage release assays, and this was mainly due to a reduction in GalA (Table 1; Figure 2E). By contrast, GalA contents increased slightly in demucilaged seed extracts (Table 1). To determine whether the overall degree of methylesterification was modified in pmei6 mutants, a methanol release assay was conducted by alkali treatment of extracts. Methanol release was reduced by more than 95, 48, and 13.5% in pmei6 water-soluble mucilage, adherent mucilage, and demucilaged seeds, respectively (Table 1), corresponding to a total decrease of more than 24% compared with the wild type. Previous mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of soluble mucilage digested by rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase identified a series of RG I oligomers that did not appear to be methylated (CITATION). The methanol measured in wild-type soluble and adherent mucilage is therefore most likely derived from methylesterified HG domains. In effect, immunolabeling experiments have detected small amounts of methylesterified HG in wild-type adherent mucilage (Figure 3; CITATION). To determine whether the reduction in GalA contents measured corresponded to GalA derived from RG I or HG, analyses were performed on fractions obtained after precipitation of HG pectin domains with ethanol (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). GalA derived from HG showed a dramatic decrease in the mutants compared with the wild type for both water-soluble and adherent mucilage extracts of >88 and 90%, respectively (Table 2). By comparing to the values obtained for total GalA contents (Tables 1 and 2), values for RG I–related GalA were calculated (Table 2) and showed that in pmei6 mutants most of the GalA redistributed from soluble to adherent mucilage was RGI-derived GalA, while nearly all the HG-derived GalA was in demucilaged seeds. The occurrence of methylesterified HG domains in soluble mucilage was assessed by MS analysis of pectin lyase digests. Pectin lyase degrades highly methylesterified HG via a β-elimination mechanism, producing unsaturated methylesterified GalA oligomers that can be detected and identified by MS (CITATION). The MS spectrum of the pectin lyase digest of wild-type soluble mucilage was characterized by the presence of peaks attributed to unsaturated methylesterified GalA oligomers with a degree of polymerization of 3 to 7. The ions corresponding to dp6 and dp7 oligomers were visible in a zoom of the wild-type mass spectrum region corresponding to a mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) 1100 to 1400 (Figure 5A). Unsaturated GalA oligomers of dp6 with 4 to 6 methyl groups (m/z 1135, 1149, and 1163) and unsaturated GalA oligomers of dp7 with 5 or 6 methyl groups (m/z 1325 and 1339) were observed. In addition, single sodiation (+22) of the carboxylic functions of predominant ions was detected at m/z 1157, 1171, 1347, and 1361, and potassium adducts (m/z 1165 and 1179) and single sodiation of potassium adducts (m/z 1187 and 1377) were observed. By contrast, none of these peaks could be detected in the mass spectrum of the pectin lyase digest of pmei6-1 soluble mucilage (Figure 5B). [[FIGURE]] Taken together, the results obtained from MS and biochemical analyses reveal the presence of highly methylesterified HG domains in wild-type mucilage that are absent from pmei6-1 mucilage. Previous studies implicated LUH/MUM1 as a positive regulator of MUM2, BXL1, and SBT1.7 expression and GL2 in the induction of MUM4 expression (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To assess whether PMEI6 is regulated by these transcription factors, transcript abundance was analyzed by qRT-PCR in developing seeds of the wild type, luh/mum1, and gl2. Steady state PMEI6 transcript levels were markedly reduced in both gl2 and luh/mum1 relative to the wild type (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Figure 6B online). These results indicate that LUH/MUM1 and GL2 are required for normal PMEI6 expression in the seed coat. To confirm this analysis, PME activity assays were performed on protein extracts from mature dry seeds of luh/mum1 and gl2. Figure 6B shows that the PME activities of gl2 and luh/mum1 were both altered compared with the wild type, confirming that these transcription factors influence PME activity. Nevertheless, while activity levels in gl2 were higher than those of the wild type, as observed for the pmei6-1 mutant, in luh/mum1, activity levels decreased. [[FIGURE]] A previously identified mutant, sbt1.7, does not release mucilage and has similar phenotypes to those observed for pmei6 mutants: higher PME activity in seeds, reduced methylesterification of mucilage, nonfragmentation of the outer cell wall, and its shedding in large pieces attached to the chalazal end of the seed (CITATION). It was hypothesized that the SBT1.7 subtilisin-like Ser protease could activate PMEI by removing the predicted inhibitory N-terminal signal sequence or inactivate PME by proteolysis. To determine whether SBT1.7 and PMEI6 could act through regulating the same PME activity, double mutants were obtained from a cross between pmei6-1 and sbt1.7-1. On direct imbibition of seeds in ruthenium red, the seeds of pmei6-1 sbt1.7-1 did not release mucilage, as observed for seeds of the parental genotypes (Figures 7A to 7D). Furthermore, when seeds were imbibed for 1 h in either water or EDTA, mucilage was released from all genotypes and staining of adherent mucilage was similar in width and intensity (Figures 7E to 7L). In the same way as for the parent genotypes, the outer cell wall did not fragment in the double mutant and remained attached to the hilum (Figures 7H and 7L). By contrast, while PME activities measured on dry seeds of the parental genotypes exhibited similar increases in PME activity compared with the wild type, activities in pmei6-1 sbt1.7-1 extracts were higher and corresponded to the addition of the increases observed for the parents (Figure 7M), indicating that they act on different PME activities. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The nine accessions corresponding to the Arabidopsis thaliana population Djarly were collected from their natural habitat, and Dja-1 was used in this study (http://www.inra.fr/internet/Produits/vast/collections.htm). The pmei6-1 (SM_3.19557), pmei6-2 (GK-790B12), luh-3 (SALK_107245C), gl2-6 (SM_3.16350), and sbt1.7-1 (GK_140B02) (Col-0 accession) mutants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://Arabidopsis.info) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The enhancer trap line ET6082 (Landsberg erecta accession) pmei6-3 was obtained from the Martienssen lab at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (http://genetrap.cshl.edu). Homozygous lines were identified by PCR using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table 2 online with genomic DNA extracts; an amplicon was only obtained for the insertion border and not with primers flanking the insertion. Seed production was performed in either a growth chamber (photoperiod of 16 h light at 21°C, 8 h dark at 18°C, 65% relative humidity, and 170 µmol m-2s−1) or a glasshouse (18 to 28°C) with a minimum photoperiod of 13 h assured by supplementary lighting. Plants were grown in compost (Tref substrates) and watered with Plan-Prod nutritive solution (Fertil). Three successive backcrosses to wild-type Col-0 were performed on the mutant pmei6-1. All phenotypic analyses were performed using these backcrossed seeds. Reciprocal crosses were performed between homozygous pmei6-1 and pmei6-2, pmei6-3, and Djarly. As the seed coat is a maternal tissue, mucilage phenotypes of F1 and F2 seed coats were determined on F2 and F3 seed, respectively. In all comparative analyses, seeds used were from mutant and wild-type plants that had been simultaneously cultivated and harvested. Developing seeds and silique envelopes were obtained by tagging flowers on the day of pollination and dissecting siliques at the specified number of days afterwards. For inclusions, whole siliques were harvested. Total RNA was extracted from developing seeds using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) and used as a template (1 µg) for first-strand cDNA synthesis with an oligo(dT) (22-mer) primer and RevertAid H Minus RT (Fermentas) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For amplification of PCR products from single-stranded cDNA from the wild type and pmei6-1 (Figures 1G and 1H), the following exon primers were used: PMEI6 CDS, forward primer 5′-GTCCCAATTTCTTAAAAAGTTTGGATTCCTCCAATAAAGAACATGACTTC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-CATAGCGTAGATTACAAGCCATCAAAAGCAAGCTTCTTGAGGAGAGCCAG-3′; PMEI6 5′, reverse primer 5′-GCAAGAGCCTCAGCACCCGT-3′; PMEI6 3′, forward primer 5′-GAGTAGAACACGGACGGTCA-3′; EF1α4 primers were as described by CITATION. Quantitative real-time PCR reactions were performed as previously described using primers that had been tested for their efficiency rates and sensitivity on dilution series of cDNAs (CITATION). PMEI6 and seed reference gene At4g12590 (CITATION) specific primers were as follows: PMEI6, forward primer, 5′-GGCAGATAAGCGATCTCGCCAC-3′; PMEI6, reverse primer 5′-AGCCAGAGCATTGCTGCATAGTC-3′; At4g12590, forward primer 5′-TGGCATTGACTTGAGCACTGTCG-3′; and At4g12590, reverse primer 5′-TCGAGGTAGTGCCCATTCGTGCT-3′. EF1α4 primers were as described by CITATION. In situ hybridization was performed on paraffin-embedded developing seed sections as described by CITATION. PMEI6-specific probes were PCR amplified from single-stranded cDNA reverse transcribed from wild-type RNA extracted from developing siliques using forward primer 5′-CGTCCCAATTTCTTAAAAGTTTG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GTAATACGACTCACTATAGCCCACTTGCTGGTGTTGTT-3′ for antisense probe and forward primer 5′-GTAATACGACTCACTATACGTCCAATTTCTTAAAAGTTTG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GCCCACTTGCTGGTGTTGTT-3′ for sense probe. DNA fragments containing 2 kb of promoter region and the PMEI6 CDS or the PMEI6 CDS alone were amplified from wild-type Col-0 genomic DNA by PCR using the following primers containing attB1 and attB2 recombination sequences: pPMEI6:PMEI6, forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCTTCCCACGCCATGCGACGAC-3′; and pPMEI6:PMEI6, reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCCAAGCCATCAAAAGCAAGCT-3′; PMEI6 CDS, forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGACTTCGTCTTCTTCTTCTCC-3′; and PMEI6 CDS, reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTACAAGCCATCAAAAGCAAGCT-3′. (Note: nucleotides in bold type were added so that PMEI6 codons would be in phase with GFP codons; underlined nucleotides correspond to the start codon.) The resulting PCR products were then recombined into the pDONR207 vector with BP clonase (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer’s instructions and transformed into Escherichia coli strain DH10B. The PMEI6 gene fragments were sequenced to confirm that no PCR-induced errors were present and then recombined into the binary vector pGWB2 or pGWB4, which allow the expression of the PMEI6 CDS under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, or the production of a PMEI6:GFP translational fusion, respectively (CITATION). The resulting binary vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1pMP90 by electroporation prior to stable transformation of wild-type or pmei6-1 plants using the floral dip method of CITATION. Mucilage released from mature dry seeds was either stained directly with 500 µg mL−1 ruthenium red or after imbibition in water or 50 mM EDTA, pH 8.0, for 1 h. After EDTA treatment, seeds were rinsed with water prior to staining. Ruthenium red staining was observed with a light microscope (Axioplan 2; Zeiss). Developing seed sections were obtained from staged siliques that had been paraffin embedded and stained with toluidine blue O as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Immunolabeling was performed with two primary monoclonal antibodies, JIM5, which binds low-ester HG, and JIM7, which binds high-ester HG (CITATION; Plant Probes), as previously described with double labeling performed with Calcofluor (CITATION; CITATION). Observation with either a Leica TCS-SP2-AOBS spectral confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems) or a Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope using a 405-nm diode laser line to excite Calcofluor or a 488-nm argon laser line to excite Alexa Fluor 488. Fluorescence emission was detected between 412 and 490 nm or 504 and 579 nm for Calcofluor and Alexa Fluor 488, respectively. For comparison of signal intensity within a given experiment, laser gain values were fixed. Dry seeds were mounted onto a Peltier cooling stage with adhesive discs (Deben) and observed with a SH-1500 tabletop scanning electron microscope (Hirox). Histochemical detection of GUS activity was performed on developing seeds staged as described above using 0.5 or 1 mM potassium ferricyanide/potassium ferrocyanide (CITATION). Seeds were then stained using a modified pseudo-Schiff propidium iodide protocol and observed as previously described (CITATION). Developing seeds were dissected from siliques of transgenic plants containing the PMEI6 promoter:PMEI6:GFP construct and stained with 1 mg mL−1 propidium iodide for 10 min, before rinsing twice with PBS. GFP and propidium iodide fluorescence were observed as described previously (CITATION). Genomic DNA was extracted from flower buds of Col-0 and Djarly accessions as described by CITATION. PMEI6 DNA fragments were then amplified by PCR, gel purified using the Wizard SV gel and PCR cleanup system according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Promega), and sequenced (GenoScreen). For mapping, crosses were performed between Col-0 and Djarly accessions, and DNA was extracted from flower buds of F2 progeny in a 96-tube format as described by CITATION. An approximate genome position was determined based on recombination percentages for 90 F2 progeny genotyped with simple sequence length polymorphism markers. The mapping interval was then reduced using recombinants identified among an additional 6344 F2 progeny. Mucilage release phenotypes for F2 seed coats were determined by ruthenium red staining of F3 seed lots. Structural predictions for PMEI6 were obtained with the ESyPred3D program (CITATION) using the homology modeling approach and the kiwi PMEI as template (CITATION; Protein Data Bank ID code 1XG2). Protein Data Bank files were analyzed with Rasmol 2.7.5.2 software (http://rasmol.org/). Total protein extracts were obtained by grinding 200 mg of dry seeds in 400 μL of extraction buffer (1 M NaCl, 12.5 mM citric acid, and 50 mM Na2HPO4, pH 6.5). The resulting homogenate was shaken for 1 h at 4°C and then centrifuged at 20,000g for 15 min, and the supernatant was retained. Protein concentrations were determined according to CITATION, and equal quantities of protein (>8 µg) in the same volume (20 µL) were loaded into 6-mm-diameter wells in gels prepared with 0.1% (w/v) of ≥85% esterified citrus fruit pectin (Sigma-Aldrich), 1% (w/v) agarose, 12.5 mM citric acid, and 50 mM Na2HPO4, pH 6.5. After incubation overnight at 28°C, plates were stained with 500 µg mL−1 ruthenium red for 45 min and destained with water for >3 h. Measurements of stained areas were performed with ImageJ 1.34S software (Freeware, National Institute of Health). For determination of monosaccharide contents from soluble and adherent mucilage and demucilaged seeds, a sequential extraction procedure was used (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Soluble and adherent mucilage extracts were obtained as described previously (CITATION). Demucilaged seeds were ground and then washed with 70% ethanol (10 min at 20°C), hexane (1 h at 40°C), and acetone (20 min 20°C) and dried prior to analyses. Material lost during this delipidation process was determined and taken into account in calculations to obtain values for whole seeds as indicated in Tables 1 and 2. Rates of mucilage release were determined using 20 mg of dry seeds that were imbibed by mixing in 1 mL of distilled water for the indicated times (1, 2, 4, 6, 16, and 24 h) at 20°C. After imbibition, seeds were centrifuged (3000g, 5 min) and supernatants removed, filtered, and stabilized by treating for 5 min at 100°C. Extracts were conserved at 4°C prior to acid and neutral sugar analyses. For the recovery of HG domains, soluble and adherent mucilage fractions were obtained as above from 2 g of seeds. Soluble mucilage was then subjected to digestion with 1 nkat of rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase (Swiss-Prot Q00018) provided by Novozymes after adjusting with 100 mM sodium acetate, pH 4.5, to a final volume of 50 mM; samples were incubated for 16 h at 40°C. Enzyme hydrolysates were concentrated, dialyzed to remove all traces of salts, and then dried. Samples were suspended in 2 mL of water and then HG domains precipitated by adding an equal volume of ethanol and incubating for 1 h at 4°C. Precipitated HG was recovered after centrifugation (3000g, 15 min), and pellets were rinsed twice with 3 mL of 48% (v/v) ethanol for 30 min at 4°C. To remove all traces of ethanol, the resulting pellet, corresponding to HG, was resuspended twice in 1 mL of water and dried. Uronic acid (as GalA) was determined by the automated m-hydroxybiphenyl and orcinol methods, respectively (CITATION). Individual neutral sugars were analyzed as their alditol acetate derivatives (CITATION) by gas–liquid chromatography after hydrolysis with 2 M trifluoroacetic acid at 121°C for 2.5 h for soluble fractions and prehydrolysis (26 n H2SO4, 1 h, 25°C) followed by hydrolysis (2 n H2SO4, 2 h, 100°C) for insoluble fractions (demucilaged seeds). The degree of methylesterification of mucilage and demucilaged seeds was measured from methanol released by alkaline deesterification of extracts with 0.2 M NaOH for 1 h at 4°C. After neutralization of extracts with 0.2 M HCl, released methanol was measured as described previously (CITATION). Soluble mucilage was obtained from 100 mg of seeds by imbibition in 1 mL of 50 mM Na-acetate, pH 5.0, and shaking for 3 h at 20°C. Supernatants with soluble mucilage were recovered by centrifugation (3000g, 5 min) and then filtered and incubated with pectin lyase for 16 h (1 nkat). For MS, all chemical reagents used were HPLC grade. N-N-dimethylaniline/2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid matrix solution was prepared by dissolving 100 mg of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich) in 1 mL of water/acetonitrile/N,N-dimethylaniline (Fisher Scientific) (49:49:2). One microliter of sample was directly mixed with 1 μL of matrix solution on a polished steel target plate. Acquisition was performed on an Autoflex III matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization tandem time of flight mass spectrometer (Bruker Daltonics) equipped with a Smartbeam laser (355 nm) in positive ion mode with a reflector. Laser power was adapted for each sample. Mass spectra were automatically processed by FlexAnalysis software (Bruker Daltonics). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: EF1α4, At5g60390; GL2, At1g79840; LUH/MUM1, At2g32700; PMEI6, At2g47670; SBT1.7, At5g67360; and seed reference gene, At4g12590. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Predicted Three-Dimensional Structure for PMEI6 Wild-Type and Mutant Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Complementation of pmei6-1 Mucilage Phenotypes by Transformation with a 35S Promoter:PMEI6 Construct. Supplemental Figure 3. Ruthenium Red Staining of Adherent Mucilage Released from Seeds Imbibed in a Cation Chelator. Supplemental Figure 4. Expression of PMEI6 in Developing Seeds. Supplemental Figure 5. Differentiation of Seed Coat Epidermal Cells in the pmei6-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 6. Expression of PMEI6 in Overexpressor Lines or GL2 and LUH/MUM1 Mutant Seeds. Supplemental Figure 7. Schematic Representation of Extraction Procedure Used for Analyses Presented in Tables 1 and 2. Supplemental Table 1. Genes in the Chromosome 2 Mapping Interval for Which Homozygous T-DNA Insertion Mutants Were Obtained and Examined for Mucilage Release. Supplemental Table 2. Sequences of Gene-Specific Primers used for Genotyping of Homozygous pmei6 Mutants.
