!~ABS~! Lateral root (LR) formation in vascular plants is regulated by auxin. The mechanisms of LR formation are not fully understood. Here, we have identified a novel recessive mutation in Arabidopsis thaliana, named fewer roots (fwr), that drastically reduces the number of LRs. Expression analyses of DR5::GUS, an auxin response reporter, and pLBD16::GUS, an LR initiation marker, suggested that FWR is necessary for the establishment of an auxin response maximum in LR initiation sites. We further identified that the fwr phenotypes are caused by a missense mutation in the GNOM gene, encoding an Arf-GEF (ADP ribosylation factor-GDP/GTP exchange factor), which regulates the recycling of PINs, the auxin efflux carriers. The fwr roots showed enhanced sensitivity to brefeldin A in a root growth inhibition assay, indicating that the fwr mutation reduces the Arf-GEF activity of GNOM. However, the other developmental processes except for LR formation appeared to be unaffected in the fwr mutant, indicating that fwr is a weaker allele of gnom compared with the other gnom alleles with pleiotropic phenotypes. The localization of PIN1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) appeared to be unaffected in the fwr roots but the levels of endogenous IAA were actually higher in the fwr roots than in the wild type. These results indicate that LR initiation is one of the most sensitive processes among GNOM-dependent developmental processes, strongly suggesting that GNOM is required for the establishment of the auxin response maximum for LR initiation, probably through the regulation of local and global auxin distribution in the root.
!~RES~! fwr was isolated from ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized A. thaliana M2 seedlings (CITATIONA) as a single recessive mutant line that had fewer LRs. In 10-day-old seedlings, the primary root length of the fwr mutant was slightly shorter than that of the wild type, but the number of emerged LRs was dramatically reduced in fwr, compared with that of the wild type (CITATIONA–C). Similarly, the total number of emerged LRs plus non-emerged LR primordia of the 10-day-old seedlings was also reduced in the fwr primary roots, compared with that in the wild-type primary roots (CITATIOND). In 15-day-old seedlings, LRs were formed in the fwr mutant but the number of emerged LRs was still reduced in fwr, compared with that of the wild type [wild type, 63.4 ± 7.6 (mean ± SD); fwr, 20.1 ± 5.4 (mean ± SD), 13 < n < 17]. These results indicate that the fwr mutation decreases the number of LRs while allowing limited formation of LRs. When LR primordia were formed in the fwr, no obvious stage-specific developmental arrests were observed except that the transition from Stage I to Stage II was slightly affected (CITATIONE). In addition, the organization of the fwr LR primordia appeared to be the same as that of the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S1). These observations indicate that the fwr mutation specifically reduces the frequency of LR initiation but does not drastically affect LR primordium development and LR emergence. Fig. 1Phenotype of the fewer roots (fwr) mutant plants. (A) Ten-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings. Scale bar = 10 mm. (B–D) Primary root (PR) length (B), emerged lateral root (LR) number (C), total number of emerged LRs and LR primordia of 10-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings (D). The error bars represent the SEM (n = 25). Asterisks indicate a statistical difference (*P < 0.01, Student’s t-test). (E) Percentage of LR primordia at given developmental stages in 8-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings. Stage classification of LR primordia is based on CITATION. Total numbers of LR primordia are 105 in 14 Col seedlings and 28 in 31 fwr mutant seedlings, respectively. Phenotype of the fewer roots (fwr) mutant plants. (A) Ten-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings. Scale bar = 10 mm. (B–D) Primary root (PR) length (B), emerged lateral root (LR) number (C), total number of emerged LRs and LR primordia of 10-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings (D). The error bars represent the SEM (n = 25). Asterisks indicate a statistical difference (*P < 0.01, Student’s t-test). (E) Percentage of LR primordia at given developmental stages in 8-day-old wild-type (Col) and fwr mutant seedlings. Stage classification of LR primordia is based on CITATION. Total numbers of LR primordia are 105 in 14 Col seedlings and 28 in 31 fwr mutant seedlings, respectively. To examine further whether the fwr mutation affects the identity of xylem pole pericycle from which LRs are initiated, we investigated the expression of the xylem pole pericycle-specific marker J0121 in the fwr mutant roots. J0121 was expressed in the xylem pole pericycle of the fwr mutant roots to the same levels as in the wild type (CITATION), suggesting that the identity of xylem pole pericycle is not affected in the fwr mutants. Fig. 2Cell identity of the xylem pole pericycle in the fwr mutant seedling. (A–D) Expression of the J0121 enhancer trap line that expresses GFP at the xylem pole pericycle of Col (A, B) and fwr (C, D) seedlings. Scale bar = 50 µm. Cell identity of the xylem pole pericycle in the fwr mutant seedling. (A–D) Expression of the J0121 enhancer trap line that expresses GFP at the xylem pole pericycle of Col (A, B) and fwr (C, D) seedlings. Scale bar = 50 µm. In the fwr mutants, both root hair formation and root gravitropic response appeared to be unaffected, and leaf and flower development and embryogenesis also appeared not to be severely impaired (data not shown), although the rosette leaf shape was slightly narrow and curled downwards compared with that of the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S2). This indicates that the fwr mutation mainly affects post-embryonic root development, specifically LR formation. To investigate whether the fwr mutation affects the auxin response maximum in the xylem pole pericycle, which is the site of LR initiation, we examined the expression of a reporter GUS (β-glucuronidase) gene construct under the control of the DR5 promoter, DR5::GUS, to monitor the auxin response maximum in both fwr and the wild type (CITATION, CITATION). The 5-day-old wild-type seedlings had several LR initiation sites and LR primordia marked by a strong DR5::GUS activity (CITATIONC, D; Supplementary Fig. S3). In contrast, the 5-day-old fwr mutant seedlings had almost no LR initiation sites, and distinct DR5::GUS activity was not observed in the xylem pole pericycle (CITATIONE, F; Supplementary Fig. S3). These observations suggest that the fwr mutation led to decreased frequency of LR initiation with the auxin response maximum at the xylem pole pericycle, thereby decreasing the number of LRs. In order to determine upon which developmental step, during the LR initiation, the fwr mutation exerts its inhibitory effect, we examined the expression of the LBD16/ASL18 gene, which is the direct target of ARF7 and ARF19 for LR initiation (CITATION). It is reported that LBD16/ASL18 expression occurs in the LR founder cells with an auxin response maximum (CITATION). In the 5-day-old seedlings, strong pLBD16::GUS activity was observed in the LR initiation sites at the xylem pole pericycle in the wild-type background (CITATIONG; Supplementary Fig. S4), whereas almost no LR initiation sites with distinct pLBD16::GUS activity could be observed in the fwr seedlings, although weak GUS activity was observed along the root stele which was also shown in the wild type (CITATIONH; Supplementary Fig. S4). This indicates that the LBD16/ASL18 gene was not adequately activated in the xylem pole pericycle of the 5-day-old fwr mutant seedlings. On the other hand, when LR primordia were formed in the 10-day-old fwr mutant seedlings, pLBD16::GUS was normally expressed in the LR initiation sites and the developing LR primordia as observed in the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S1), although the number of LR primordia was reduced in the fwr mutant (data not shown). Taken together, these observations indicate that the fwr mutation inhibits the establishment of an auxin response maximum in LR initiation sites. Fig. 3The fwr mutation inhibits the establishment of an auxin response maximum for LR initiation. (A, B) Expression of DR5::GUS in the root tip of Col (A) and fwr (B) seedlings [5 days after germination (DAG)]. (C–F) Expression of DR5::GUS in the mature root region of Col (C, D) and fwr (E, F) seedlings (5 DAG). (G, H) Expression pattern of pLBD16::GUS in the Col (G) and fwr (H) roots. Scale bars = 100 µm. The fwr mutation inhibits the establishment of an auxin response maximum for LR initiation. (A, B) Expression of DR5::GUS in the root tip of Col (A) and fwr (B) seedlings [5 days after germination (DAG)]. (C–F) Expression of DR5::GUS in the mature root region of Col (C, D) and fwr (E, F) seedlings (5 DAG). (G, H) Expression pattern of pLBD16::GUS in the Col (G) and fwr (H) roots. Scale bars = 100 µm. In the root tip, similar DR5::GUS expression patterns were detected in both fwr and the wild type except that GUS activity in the LR cap region tended to be absent or lower in fwr (16 cases /20 samples) than in the wild type (3 cases /20 samples) (CITATIONA, B). This suggests that the fwr mutation may reduce auxin transport or signaling in the root tip region. Taken together, the fwr mutation affects the auxin response pattern in the root, resulting in the reduced LR phenotype. Based on the fwr LR phenotype, we hypothesized that the fwr mutation might affect auxin responses. In order to investigate whether the fwr mutation changes the auxin responsiveness in the roots, we examined the effect of exogenous auxin on primary root growth and LR formation. When 4-day-old seedlings grown on auxin-free media were transferred onto auxin [IAA or naphthylphthalamic acid (NAA)]-containing media and incubated for an additional 3 d, the effect of exogenously applied auxin on primary root growth was found to be similar in both the fwr mutant and the wild type (CITATIONA, B; Supplementary Fig. S5). In the wild type, LR formation was induced depending on the concentration of exogenous auxin, and the LR density (the number of LRs per portion of the primary root where LRs are present) increased with auxin treatment (CITATIONA, C, D; Supplementary Fig. S5). In the fwr mutant, the auxin-induced LR formation was observed with either 0.03 µM IAA or 0.03 µM NAA and the LR density was restored to wild-type levels (CITATIONC, D; Supplementary Fig. S5). Interestingly, higher concentrations of auxin (either 0.1 µM IAA, 1.0 µM IAA or 1.0 µM NAA) increased the LR density in the fwr mutant significantly more than in the wild type (CITATIONC, D; Supplementary Fig. S5). These results indicate that the fwr mutant remains responsive to low concentrations of exogenous auxin to form LRs but shows enhanced sensitivity to higher concentrations of exogenous auxin, strongly suggesting that the fwr mutation may attenuate auxin distribution for LR formation. Fig. 4Auxin inhibition of primary root growth and auxin induction of LR formation in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. (A) Four-day-old Col and fwr mutant seedlings were transferred onto IAA-free (control) or IAA-containing media, and incubated for an additional 3 d. Scale bar = 10 mm. Representative seedlings are shown for each treatment. (B) Root elongation of seedlings on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The error bars represent the SEM (n = 25). (C) LR number of seedlings grown on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The values for fwr mutants on hormone-free media (control) are 0.0 ± 0.0 (mean ± SEM). The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.01 by Student’s t-test). ns, not significant. n = 25. (D) LR density of seedlings on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The values of fwr mutants on hormone-free (control) and 0.01 µM IAA media is not determined due to a limited number of LR primordia (N.D.). The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.01 by Student’s t-test). ns, not significant. n = 25. Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment. Auxin inhibition of primary root growth and auxin induction of LR formation in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. (A) Four-day-old Col and fwr mutant seedlings were transferred onto IAA-free (control) or IAA-containing media, and incubated for an additional 3 d. Scale bar = 10 mm. Representative seedlings are shown for each treatment. (B) Root elongation of seedlings on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The error bars represent the SEM (n = 25). (C) LR number of seedlings grown on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The values for fwr mutants on hormone-free media (control) are 0.0 ± 0.0 (mean ± SEM). The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.01 by Student’s t-test). ns, not significant. n = 25. (D) LR density of seedlings on IAA-containing media for 72 h. The values of fwr mutants on hormone-free (control) and 0.01 µM IAA media is not determined due to a limited number of LR primordia (N.D.). The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.01 by Student’s t-test). ns, not significant. n = 25. Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment. To isolate the FWR gene, detailed mapping using the F2 generation of fwr (accession Columbia) and accession Landsberg erecta was performed. The FWR gene was identified within an approximately 120 kb genomic region of a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone (F7A19) of chromosome 1 (Supplementary Fig. S6). After sequencing the genes annotated in this region, we found that the fwr mutant genome has a single base pair substitution in the At1g13980 gene, which encodes GNOM/EMB30, an Arf-GEF that functions in vesicle trafficking and is required for embryogenesis (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). This mutation caused a missense mutation (C to T) in the open reading frame that changes the 1,005th serine to phenyalanine in the HDS2 (Homology Downstream of SEC7 2) domain (CITATIONA; Supplementary Fig. S6). Interestingly, this serine residue is conserved among several GNOM-related proteins, AtGNL1 and AtGNL2 in Arabidopsis, and CeGBF1 and HsGBF1 in animals (CITATION) (CITATIONB), suggesting the functional importance of this residue. Expression analysis by semi-quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) showed that mutant GNOM mRNAs were expressed in the fwr mutant seedlings, suggesting that the mutant GNOM protein is expressed in the fwr mutant (CITATIOND). To confirm genetically that the fwr is a mutant allele of the GNOM gene, the allelism test using a T-DNA insertion line of GNOM, SALK_103014, gnomSALK_103014 was performed. The gnomSALK_103014 line showed the aberrant seedling lethal phenotype in which shoot and root apical meristems were not produced, similar to that of gnom/emb30 (CITATIONC; CITATION, CITATION). All heterozygous plants of the fwr allele and the gnomSALK_103014 gnomSALK_103014 allele had a shorter primary root without any LRs, which is a more severe phenotype than fwr but a milder phenotype than gnomSALK_103014, indicating that fwr is genetically allelic to gnomSALK_103014 (CITATIONC). In addition, we also performed a molecular complementation test by introducing the genomicGNOM-GFP construct into the fwr mutant. The fwr mutant plants expressing the GNOM–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein under the control of the native GNOM promoter (genomicGNOM-GFP/fwr) produced wild-type levels of LRs (Supplementary Fig. S7). The primary root growth was also restored in the genomicGNOM-GFP/fwr seedlings (Supplementary Fig. S7). Furthermore, we confirmed that the subcellular localization of GNOM–GFP fluorescence was observed at the specific compartments closely associated and partially overlapping with FM4-64-labeled endosomes in these transgenic root cells, consistent with previous reports on the subcellular localization of GNOM (Supplementary Fig. S7; CITATION). These results indicate that GNOM–GFP functionally rescued the fwr phenotype for both LR formation and primary root growth. To examine whether the fwr mutation affects the subcellular localization of GNOM–GFP, we also produced transgenic plants expressing the gnomfwr–GFP fusion protein under the control of the native GNOM promoter. Interestingly, the subcellular localization of gnomfwr–GFP fluorescence was mainly observed at the plasma membrane, which is different from that of GNOM–GFP (Supplementary Fig. S7). This suggests that the fwr mutation might affect the subcellular localization of GNOM. However, the gnomfwr–GFP fusion protein was functional as well as the GNOM-GFP in the gnomSALK_103014 mutant background, suggesting that the addition of GFP to the C-terminus of the gnomfwr mutant protein might rescue the function (data not shown). Fig. 5The FWR gene encodes GNOM protein. (A) Protein structure of GNOM (GN) and mutation point of fwr. GN has several characteristic domains: DCB, dimerization/cyclophilin-binding domain; HUS, homology upstream of Sec7 domain; Sec7, Sec7 domain; HDS, homology downstream of Sec7 domain. fwr has a single nucleotide mutation in HDS2 that caused Ser1,005Phe alteration. The black triangle represents the insertion site of T-DNA in the SALK_103014 line. (B) Amino acid sequence alignment of the flanking region of the fwr mutation of Gea/GNOM/GBF family members. Budding yeast Gea1p and Gea2p (ScGea1p and ScGea2p), Caenorhabditis elegans GBF1 (CeGBF1), human GBF1 (HsGBF1) and Arabidopsis GNL1 and GNL2. Sequences were aligned using ClutstalW. The mutated residue (Ser1,005Phe) in fwr is highlighted in orange. (C) Allelism test between the fwr mutant and the GNOM knockout T-DNA mutant (SALK_103014). Scale bars indicate 10 mm (Col) and 2 mm (gnomSALK_103014), respectively. (D) Accumulation of GNOM mRNA in Col and fwr mutant seedling roots. The black lines in (A) indicate the amplified regions by RT–PCR. The expression of the ACT2 gene was used as a control. The FWR gene encodes GNOM protein. (A) Protein structure of GNOM (GN) and mutation point of fwr. GN has several characteristic domains: DCB, dimerization/cyclophilin-binding domain; HUS, homology upstream of Sec7 domain; Sec7, Sec7 domain; HDS, homology downstream of Sec7 domain. fwr has a single nucleotide mutation in HDS2 that caused Ser1,005Phe alteration. The black triangle represents the insertion site of T-DNA in the SALK_103014 line. (B) Amino acid sequence alignment of the flanking region of the fwr mutation of Gea/GNOM/GBF family members. Budding yeast Gea1p and Gea2p (ScGea1p and ScGea2p), Caenorhabditis elegans GBF1 (CeGBF1), human GBF1 (HsGBF1) and Arabidopsis GNL1 and GNL2. Sequences were aligned using ClutstalW. The mutated residue (Ser1,005Phe) in fwr is highlighted in orange. (C) Allelism test between the fwr mutant and the GNOM knockout T-DNA mutant (SALK_103014). Scale bars indicate 10 mm (Col) and 2 mm (gnomSALK_103014), respectively. (D) Accumulation of GNOM mRNA in Col and fwr mutant seedling roots. The black lines in (A) indicate the amplified regions by RT–PCR. The expression of the ACT2 gene was used as a control. It is reported that several partial loss-of-function gnom mutant alleles affect most of the growth and developmental processes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). gnomR5, one of the weak gnom alleles, has a pleiotropic phenotype including dwarf shoots, agravitropic roots, arrested root meristematic activity and defects in LR primordium initiation and development (CITATION). However, no gnom mutant allele has been reported specifically to impair LR initiation. It is noted that the embryogenesis, shoot development and fertility were not drastically affected by the fwr mutation. These results indicate that fwr is a new partial loss-of-function mutant allele of the GNOM gene, which mainly inhibits GNOM’s function in LR initiation. To examine whether the fwr mutation affects the Arf-GEF activity of GNOM, we examined the sensitivity of the fwr mutant to brefeldin A (BFA) that inhibits the Arf-GEF activity in vesicle transport. When 4-day-old seedlings grown on BFA-free media were transferred onto BFA-containing media and incubated for an additional 3 d, the primary root growth of the fwr mutant was more inhibited at either 1 or 5 µM BFA, compared with that of the wild type, indicating that the fwr mutation confers enhanced sensitivity to BFA-mediated root growth inhibition (CITATION). This result indicates that the fwr mutation reduces the Arf-GEF activity of GNOM, thereby confirming that fwr is a weak gnom allele. Fig. 6BFA inhibition of primary root growth in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. Four-day-old seedlings grown on MS medium were transferred to medium containing different concentrations of BFA. Root growth after 3 d with each concentration of BFA was measured. For each genotype, the inhibition of root growth relative to the growth on unsupplemented medium (mock) was shown. Root increment (elongation) of mock-treated seedlings during 3 d was 25.1 ± 0.5 (mean ± SEM) mm for wild-type Col, and 22.1 ± 0.9 mm for fwr. The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.0001 by Student’s t test). ns, not significant. n = 17. Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment. BFA inhibition of primary root growth in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. Four-day-old seedlings grown on MS medium were transferred to medium containing different concentrations of BFA. Root growth after 3 d with each concentration of BFA was measured. For each genotype, the inhibition of root growth relative to the growth on unsupplemented medium (mock) was shown. Root increment (elongation) of mock-treated seedlings during 3 d was 25.1 ± 0.5 (mean ± SEM) mm for wild-type Col, and 22.1 ± 0.9 mm for fwr. The error bars represent the SEM. The asterisks indicate a statistical difference between Col and the fwr mutant (*P < 0.0001 by Student’s t test). ns, not significant. n = 17. Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment. GNOM is known to regulate the recycling of PIN1, an auxin efflux carrier, thereby affecting the subcellular localization of PIN1 at the basal plasma membrane, which is important for several auxin-dependent growth and developmental processes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To determine whether the fwr mutation affects the localization of PIN1 in the root, we genetically crossed the PIN1–GFP line (CITATION) into the fwr mutant and observed PIN1–GFP fluorescence in the fwr roots. As shown in CITATION, PIN1–GFP was localized at the basal membrane of the root stele cells in fwr as observed in the wild type (CITATIONA). In the Stage I LR primordia and later stages, no distinct difference in PIN1–GFP localization was observed between the wild type and fwr (CITATIONB, C), which suggest that at least PIN1-mediated auxin transport for LR formation is dramatically unaffected by the fwr mutation. Fig. 7Subcellular localization of PIN1–GFP in Col and fwr mutant seedling. (A–C) Subcellular localization of PIN1–GFP in the stele cells of the root tip (A), Stage I LR primordium (B) and Stage IV LR primordium (C). Scale bar in (A) = 10 µm. Scale bar in (B, C) = 50 µm. Subcellular localization of PIN1–GFP in Col and fwr mutant seedling. (A–C) Subcellular localization of PIN1–GFP in the stele cells of the root tip (A), Stage I LR primordium (B) and Stage IV LR primordium (C). Scale bar in (A) = 10 µm. Scale bar in (B, C) = 50 µm. PIN1 is necessary for polar auxin transport from the shoots toward the roots (CITATION). As this process is important for LR formation (CITATION, CITATION), it is possible that the fwr mutation impairs PIN1-dependent polar auxin transport from the shoots toward the roots, thereby inhibiting LR formation. To examine whether the fwr mutation in GNOM decrease the levels of endogenous IAA in the roots, we measured endogenous IAA levels in the roots of 5-day-old wild-type and fwr seedlings by LC-ESI-MS/MS (liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectroscopy) analysis (see the Materials and Methods). Interestingly, the level of endogenous IAA in the roots of fwr seedlings is much higher than that in wild-type seedlings (CITATION). These results indicate that that GNOM/FWR negatively control the endogenous IAA levels in roots and that the fwr mutation inhibits LR initiation without decreasing the total levels of endogenous IAA in the roots. Fig. 8IAA levels in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. IAA levels (ng g−1 FW) in the roots of the 5-day-old Col and fwr mutant seedlings are shown (n = 3). Error bars indicate the SEM. The asterisk indicates a statistical difference (P < 0.001 by a two-sided t-test). Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment. IAA levels in Col and fwr mutant seedlings. IAA levels (ng g−1 FW) in the roots of the 5-day-old Col and fwr mutant seedlings are shown (n = 3). Error bars indicate the SEM. The asterisk indicates a statistical difference (P < 0.001 by a two-sided t-test). Experiments were repeated twice, and similar results were obtained in each experiment.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana used in this study were Columbia (Col) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) accessions. The DR5::GUS seeds were kindly provided by Tom Guilfoyle (University of Missouri, USA). The PIN1-GFP seeds were kindly provided by Jiří Friml (Ghent University, Belgium). The pLBD16::GUS line was described by CITATION. The T-DNA insertion line (gnomSALK_103014) in the GNOM (SALK_103014) seeds was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). The J0121 line was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). The fwr mutant was isolated from the EMS-mutagenized M2 Col seeds obtained from LEHLE SEEDS (http://www.arabidopsis.com/). The fwr mutant was backcrossed more than three times before the analysis. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1.0% sucrose solidified with 0.5% gellan gum as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown at 23°C under continuous light. The number of LRs and root lengths were determined using a dissecting microscope and ImageJ software (NIH). DNA from individual wild-type F2 plants from a cross between fwr (Col) and the wild type (Ler) was isolated and analyzed for co-segregation with various cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION, CITATION). Primers used for mapping are listed in Supplementary Table S1. Polymorphisms between Col and Ler ecotypes were found with the use of a dCAPS (F7A19C) marker and an SSLP (F7A19) marker on chromosome 1, respectively (Supplementary Fig. S4). Of the 2,920 chromosomes examined, four recombination events were found between the F7A19C marker and the fwr mutation. Of the 3,042 chromosomes examined, two recombination events were found between F7A19 and the fwr mutation. These markers mapped the fwr mutation to within about a 120 kb genomic region in the BAC clone F7A19. The At1g13980 gene encoding GNOM in this region was amplified from the fwr mutant genomic DNA with several pairs of primers based on the genomic sequence containing the At1g13980 gene. PCR products were purified and directly sequenced by standard methods using these PCR primers and additional internal primers. Primers used for plasmid construction of GNOM-GFP are listed in Supplementary Table S2. The genomic GNOM-GFP line was constructed by the technique of fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins (CITATION). The cDNA encoding GFP was inserted in-frame immediately preceding the stop codon of the GNOM gene-coding sequence. The complete sequence includes 2.4 kb of the 5′- and 0.6 kb of the 3′-flanking sequences of GNOM. The amplified sequence was subcloned into pENTR D-TOPO (Invitrogen) and then transferred to pGWB501 (CITATION) by Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The genomic GNOMfwr-GFP was produced by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed via floral dipping using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58MP90) (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from 5-day-old root tissues using an RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 1 µg of total RNA with a ReverTra Ace qPCR RT kit (TOYOBO). Transcripts were quantified by PCR using 1/30 (GNOM) or 1/100 (ACT2) of the resulting cDNA as template, respectively. Transcripts were amplified by 30 cycles of PCR with gene-specific primers. Primers used for RT–PCR are listed in Supplementary Table S3. GUS staining, fixation and whole-mount clearing preparation of roots were performed essentially as described previously (CITATION), and samples were observed with a Leica DM6000 microscope equipped with Nomarski optics (Leica Microsystems). For confocal microscopy, roots were counterstained with propidium iodide (10 µg ml–1) and analyzed with an Olympus FV1000 confocal microscope. For labeling with FM4-64, the roots were soaked in MS liquid medium plus 4 µM FM4-64 on ice for 10 min. Samples were washed twice, incubated for 15 min at 23°C and then observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope. Fresh plant tissues (30–40 mg) were homogenized in 80% acetonitrile/1% acetic acid/H2O (v/v, 0.5 ml) containing [13C6]IAA (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories) as an internal standard by using a Tissue Lyser (Qiagen. The extract was centrifuged at 14,000×g for 10 min and the supernatant was transferred to a glass tube (5 ml). The pellet was further washed with 80% acetonitrile containing 1% acetic acid (v/v) and centrifuged. The supernatants were combined and evaporated by a Speed Vac (Thermo Scientific). The extract was dissolved in 1% acetic acid and loaded in a Waters Oasis WAX extraction cartridge (1 ml). After washing with 1% acetic acid (1 ml) and 80% acetonitrile (2 ml), IAA was eluted with 80% acetonitrile/1% acetic acid/H2O (1 ml). After evaporation by a Speed Vac, the IAA fraction was re-dissolved in 1% acetic acid (20 µl) and injected into an LC-ESI-MS/MS apparatus 6410 (Agilent) equipped with a ZORBAX Eclipse XDB-C18 column (Agilent). Endogenous IAA levels were quantified as previously described (CITATION).
