!~ABS~! ► At3g25060 encodes an E+-subclass pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein in Arabidopsis thaliana . ► AT3G25060 is an editing factor targeted to mitochondria (Mitochondrial Editing Factor, MEF25). ► MEF25 specifically addresses one of two contiguous RNA editing sites in the nad1 transcript. ► Two adjacent RNA editing sites must be recognized by at least two different editing factors. ► Lack of editing in mef25 mutants changes a conserved amino acid in NADH dehydrogenase subunit 1.
!~RES~! To identify specific trans -factors involved in RNA editing of plant mitochondrial transcripts, we selected PPR candidate genes based on four criteria: (i) PPR genes with ESTs or cDNA sequences in public databases; (ii) mitochondrial destination predicted by different subcellular sorting algorithms (Predotar, TargetP, iPSORT, Mitoprot2); (iii) members of the PLS subfamily with E, E+ or DYW motifs; (iv) low sequence similarity with other Arabidopsis PPR proteins. One of the PPR genes thus selected is At3g25060, which encodes an E+-PPR protein. To test the prediction that the protein translated from this gene, At3g25060, is targeted to mitochondria, a DNA fragment encoding the N-terminal 144 amino acids (up to the second PPR motif) was fused upstream of the GFP gene and stable transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated. In leaf protoplasts and seedling roots from these transgenic lines GFP fluorescence showed the punctuate pattern characteristic of mitochondria ( CITATION ). Furthermore, GFP and Mitotracker-Orange fluorescence overlapped and were clearly distinct from chloroplast fluorescence, confirming that the AT3G25060 protein is targeted to mitochondria and not to chloroplasts. To characterize MEF25 gene expression, we fused either 1000 or 500 bp fragments from just upstream of the MEF25 AUG codon to a GUS reporter gene. Transgenic lines for both constructs showed similar expression patterns, suggesting that the main promoter activity is located within 500 bp upstream of the MEF25 AUG start codon ( CITATION ). GUS activity was detected in cotyledons and hypocotyls of seedlings, in leaves, and in sepals, filaments and the pistil of flowers. With the mitochondrial localization of AT3G25060 confirmed, we analyzed the RNA editing phenotypes in At3g25060 disrupted mutants. Two independent mutants were retrieved from the SALK and SAIL collections, homozygous plants were selected and the positions of both independent T-DNA insertions were confirmed by PCR and sequencing to be in the coding region ( CITATION A, CITATION ). For the identification of mitochondrial RNA-editing defects in the mutants, RNA from leaves was screened for deficiencies in RNA editing with the multiplexed SNaPshot approach CITATION . With this assay, 367 annotated editing sites were analyzed, in addition, 45 further mitochondrial editing sites were examined by direct RT-PCR amplification and sequencing. In this analysis we found a defect in editing at one of the 25 editing events in the nad1 transcript, site nad1 -308 is not edited in both mutants ( CITATION B and C). Surprisingly, the immediately adjacent site nad1 -307 is completely edited in both wild type and mutant plants, suggesting that nucleotides 307 and 308 are recognized by different factors. When we analyzed the nad1 RNA editing status by RT-PCR, we found that among 43 mutant cDNA clones, all were unedited at nad1 -308 and edited at nad1 -307 ( CITATION ). In contrast, among 82 wild type cDNA clones, all were edited at nad1 -307 and 80 were also edited at nad1 -308. When normally edited at positions 307 and 308, the CCG (pro) codon is changed to UUG (leu) codon. The leucine amino acid is highly conserved in plants. In both mutants the CCG codon is edited to CUG, encoding serine. The gene locus (TAIR ID: AT3G25060 ) was renamed MEF25 and the mutant lines mef25-1 and mef25-2 , respectively. When the mutants were compared to wild type plants, no changes were seen in the macroscopic phenotype or in the development of homozygous mef25-1 and mef25-2 plants under standard growth conditions ( CITATION ). Neither was pollen viability affected. These results suggest that the lack of editing at site nad1 -308 has little effect on normal mitochondrial function. RNA processing of the nad1 precursor to the mature transcript includes cis - and trans -splicing and 25 RNA editing events ( CITATION B). To evaluate if the lack of RNA editing at the nad1 -308 site alters other RNA processing steps in the nad1 transcript, we assayed an RNA gel blot with a probe specific for the nad1 transcript. No difference in the nad1 transcript profiles was seen in leaves of wild type and mef25-1 and mef25-2 mutant plants, suggesting that stability, splicing and 5′ or 3′ processing are not affected ( CITATION ). This result also precludes that the molecular phenotype of the loss of RNA editing at site nad1 -308 is a secondary effect generated by defects in transcription or processing.
!~MM~! The wild type Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype used was Columbia-0 (Col-0). The T-DNA insertion mutant lines SAIL 672 ( mef25-1 ) and SALK_091381C ( mef25-2 ) in the Col-0 background were obtained from the ABRC Stock Center. Seeds were sown on half-concentrated Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose and solidified with 0.8% (w/v) agar. After 2 weeks in a 16/8-h day/night cycle at 22 °C, seedlings were transferred to soil and grown for 4–6 weeks under the same conditions. To isolate homozygous mutant plants, genotyping was performed by PCR as described CITATION , using the specific primers indicated in CITATION . Growth and phenotype of wild type and mef25 mutant plants were analyzed at the seedling stage and in adult plants. Alexander staining of pollen was performed on anthers of recently opened flowers as described CITATION . To characterize nad1 transcripts in wild type and mef25 mutant plants, total RNA was isolated from leaves of six-week-old plants or 15-days-old seedlings with the TRIzol reagent following the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen). Northern-blot analyses were performed as described, using a nad1 32 P-labeled probe CITATION . mef25-1 and mef25-2 homozygous mutant plants were screened by multiplexed single base extension “SNapShot analysis” for altered RNA editing at specific sites CITATION . To confirm the editing defect observed, specific cDNA fragments were generated by RT-PCR amplification CITATION using primer nad1ssampAC580R for cDNA synthesis and primers nad1ssamp-37F and nad1ssampCA376R for PCR amplification ( CITATION ). The status of the respective editing site was determined by sequence analysis (Macrogen, Seoul, Korea or 4base lab, Reutlingen, Germany). The cDNA sequences were compared for C to T differences resulting from RNA editing. MEF25 localization was investigated by GFP fusion to the MEF25 amino terminal 144 amino acids in vector pK7FWG2 CITATION . The DNA encoding this amino terminal sequence was obtained by PCR with primers amino-mef25F and amino-mef25R ( CITATION ). To construct GUS promoter fusions, two PCR fragments of 1000 and 500 bp from upstream of the MEF25 initiation codon were cloned into the pGEM-T easy plasmid (Promega), digested with Sal I and Nco I (restriction sites introduced by the primers, see CITATION ) and ligated to the GUS frame in pCAMBIA1381 ( www.cambia.org ). Primers were Pro1mef25-SalIF and Promef25-NcoIR for the 1.0 kb DNA fragment and Pro2mef25-SalIF and Promef25-NcoIR for the 0.5 kb fragment. Constructs were verified by DNA sequencing, introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 by electroporation and Arabidopsis plants were transformed by floral dip CITATION . Several independent transgenic lines were obtained for each construct. GFP and Mitotracker Orange (Invitrogen) fluorescence were analyzed with a confocal microscope (Nikon C2+) in seedling roots and protoplasts prepared as described CITATION . Histochemical GUS staining was performed as described CITATION .
