!~ABS~! Light regulates ascorbic acid (AsA) synthesis, which increases in the light, presumably reflecting a need for antioxidants to detoxify reactive molecules produced during photosynthesis. Here, we examine this regulation in Arabidopsis thaliana and find that alterations in the protein levels of the AsA biosynthetic enzyme GDP-Man pyrophosphorylase (VTC1) are associated with changes in AsA contents in light and darkness. To find regulatory factors involved in AsA synthesis, we identified VTC1-interacting proteins by yeast two-hybrid screening of a cDNA library from etiolated seedlings. This screen identified the photomorphogenic factor COP9 signalosome subunit 5B (CSN5B), which interacted with the N terminus of VTC1 in yeast and plants. Gel filtration profiling showed that VTC1-CSN5B also associated with the COP9 signalosome complex, and this interaction promotes ubiquitination-dependent VTC1 degradation through the 26S proteasome pathway. Consistent with this, csn5b mutants showed very high AsA levels in both light and darkness. Also, a double mutant of csn5b with the partial loss-of-function mutant vtc1-1 contained AsA levels between those of vtc1-1 and csn5b, showing that CSN5B modulates AsA synthesis by affecting VTC1. In addition, the csn5b mutant showed higher tolerance to salt, indicating that CSN5B regulation of AsA synthesis affects the response to salt stress. Together, our data reveal a regulatory role of CSN5B in light-dark regulation of AsA synthesis.
!~RES~! To determine whether light/darkness affects AsA production and the protein levels of AsA biosynthetic enzymes, we first measured the AsA content in light-grown (50 μmol/m2/s) and etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings of ecotypes Columbia-0 (Col-0) and Wassilewskija (Ws). Etiolated seedlings of both ecotypes contained 70% less AsA than light-grown seedlings (Figure 1A). We next measured the VTC1 protein level in etiolated seedlings of both ecotypes. The VTC1 protein levels in the etiolated seedlings were lower than in the light-grown seedlings (Figure 1B), indicating that the protein level of VTC1 is associated with the regulation of AsA synthesis in response to light/darkness. [[FIGURE]] To isolate light/darkness-related factors in AsA synthesis, a yeast two-hybrid screen was performed to identify VTC1-interacting proteins by screening a cDNA library prepared from 3-d-old etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings. Among the 15 cDNA clones recovered, seven were found to encode CSN5B. CSN5B reportedly belongs to a CSN complex containing eight subunits (CSN1 to CSN8; CITATION). Several studies have suggested that the CSN, COP1-SPA, and CDD complexes (Constitutive photomorphogenesis10, DNA Damage-binding protein1, and De-etiolated1) negatively regulate photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis via proteasomal degradation (CITATION; CITATION). Curiously, all of the isolated CSN5B clones in our assays were partial clones that lacked the 17 N-terminal and 29 C-terminal amino acids. Because full-length CSN5 fused with the GAL4 activation domain (GAL4-AD) nonspecifically interacted with tested proteins in yeast, but N-terminally truncated CSN5 did not (CITATION), we fused truncated CSN5B, lacking the 17 N-terminal residues and 29 C-terminal amino acids, to the GAL4 DNA binding domain (GAL4-BD); this fusion interacted with VTC1-AD (Figure 2A), indicating that CSN5B interacts specifically with VTC1 in yeast. To further verify this interaction, we generated a series of VTC1 truncations that were fused with the GAL4-BD and used them in yeast two-hybrid assays. We found that CSN5B interacted with different VTC1 N-terminal truncations, all of which included the N-terminal 40 amino acids (N5, amino acids 1 to 200; N4, 1 to 160; N3, 1 to 120; N2, 1 to 80; and N1, 1 to 40). Interactions were not detected between CSN5B and the VTC1 C-terminal conserved domain bacterial transferase hexapeptide or between CSN5B and a VTC1 deletion lacking the N-terminal 40 amino acids (delet-N1) (Figure 2B), suggesting that the N-terminal 40 amino acid fragment of VTC1 is necessary for its interaction with CSN5B. [[FIGURE]] To identify the interaction between VTC1 and CSN5B in plants, we performed coimmunoprecipitation (CoIP) assays using an F1 hybrid of OE2/CSN5B-myc, which was generated by crossing a transgenic OE2 line that constitutively expressed the full-length VTC1 cDNA-HA-epitope tag in Col-0 with a CSN5B-myc line overexpressing CSN5B-myc in Col-0. The α-myc matrix efficiently immunoprecipitated the CSN5B-myc fusion and VTC1-HA protein from extracts of OE2/CSN5B-myc plants but not from OE2 seedlings, which were used as a negative control (Figure 2C). The following three experiments also suggested that the N-terminal region of VTC1 interacts with the N-terminal region of CSN5B in plants: (1) CoIP assays using extracts of hybrids of the OE2 line or a transgenic line overexpressing the nucleotidyl transferase (NT) fragment from the N terminus of VTC1 with the CSN5B-myc line (Figure 2D); (2) pull-down experiments using purified CSN5B to isolate proteins from the OE2 line (Figure 2E); and (3) a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay using Arabidopsis protoplasts to detect the interaction of VTC1 with full-length and N-terminal (MPN), but not C-terminal (ICA), CSN5B (Figure 2F). CSN5 participates in important biological functions and harbors the catalytic center of CSN’s derubylation activity, which can function independently of the CSN in vivo (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, two CSN5 isoforms can be incorporated into distinct CSN complexes in vivo (CSNCSN5A and CSNCSN5B) in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To test whether VTC1 interacts with other CSN subunits, we first used a yeast two-hybrid assay to screen for interacting proteins. VTC1 interacted with CSN5A and CSN5B but did not interact with other CSN subunits (Figure 3A). Interestingly, the VTC1–CSN5B interaction was much stronger than that of VTC1-CSN5A (Figure 3A), even though CSN5B was expressed at a lower level than CSN5A in both the dark and light (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). We also compared the interaction between VTC1 and CSN5A or CSN5B in vivo in CSN5A-myc or CSN5B-myc transgenic lines that expressed CSN5A-myc or CSN5B-myc, respectively, in a csn5b background. CSN5B, but not CSN5A, was coimmunoprecipitated with VTC1 (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), suggesting that VTC1 interacts specifically with CSN5B in plants. [[FIGURE]] We next found that the VTC1–CSN5B interaction is associated with the CSN holocomplex in plants based on a gel filtration profile using extracts of transgenic OE2 plants. Protein blot analyses indicated that the proteins that associated with VTC1-HA were eluted in high molecular mass fractions (Figure 3B), which may correspond to the CSN complex (fractions 12 to 15; CITATION). To identify the CSN complex, we probed the gel filtration profile separately with antibodies against CSN3, CSN5, and CSN6. As expected, VTC1 cofractionated with CSN3, CSN5, and CSN6 (Figure 3B), consistent with the previous report that the CSN complex was centered between 450 and 550 kD (CITATION). The coelution of VTC1 and CSN from the gel filtration column indicates that they are part of the same complex. Because the CSN holocomplex is predominantly localized to the nucleus, and the d-Man/l-Gal pathway exists in the cytoplasm, we further investigated the localization of VTC1 by isolating nuclei and cytoplasm from OE2 seedlings. VTC1-HA was detected in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Figure 3C). Furthermore, CSN3 and CSN6 could be coimmunoprecipitated with VTC1-HA and NT-HA (similar to CSN5B-myc) (Figure 2D), strongly suggesting that the VTC1–CSN5B interaction is associated with the CSN complex. AsA content has been reported to decrease under dark conditions and during the transition from high light to low light (CITATION). The CSN complex regulates photomorphogenesis by regulating cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase degradation (CITATION). We determined that etiolated seedlings displayed low levels of VTC1 protein (Figure 1B) and that CSN5B interacted with VTC1 in vivo (Figures 2C, 2D, and 2F). Based on these data, we asked whether darkness inhibits VTC1 protein stability, thereby mediating the effects of CSN5B. To address this, we measured the VTC1 protein levels in 10-d-old OE2 and OX4 seedlings, which constitutively expressed VTC1-HA in a Col-0 and csn5b background, respectively. Immunoblot analysis showed that the VTC1 protein levels decreased and then nearly disappeared after the seedlings were transferred to darkness for 8 and 12 h, respectively, compared with light-grown seedlings (Figure 4A). We also found that VTC1 was stabilized when OX4 seedlings were transferred to darkness for 12 h (Figure 4B). To further determine the effect of CSN5B on VTC1 stability, we expressed a VTC1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) fusion in both the Col-0 and csn5b backgrounds. For each transformation, we selected the line in which VTC1 expression was not obviously different at the transcriptional level. We detected VTC1 in extracts of etiolated seedlings using anti-GFP antibody and found that VTC1 was clearly accumulated in the VTC1-GFP–overexpressing line in a csn5b background compared with the VTC1-GFP–overexpressing line in Col-0 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). These results suggest that CSN5B promotes VTC1 degradation in darkness. [[FIGURE]] To confirm whether VTC1 degradation is mediated by proteasomal degradation, we used an inhibitor of the 26S proteasome system to pretreat OE2 seedlings in the dark for 10 h. VTC1 protein accumulated to a greater degree in the MG132-pretreated samples than in the DMSO-pretreated samples (Figure 4C), indicating that the ability of CSN5B to promote VTC1 degradation may be mediated through the 26S proteasome system. Moreover, higher molecular mass forms of VTC1-HA were detected in extracts of etiolated seedlings from the OE2 transgenic line; this result was confirmed by detection with an antiubiquitin antibody (Figure 4D), suggesting that the VTC1-HA fusion was linked with polyubiquitin. Meanwhile, the gel filtration profile from extracts of transgenic OE2 plants was detected with the same ubiquitin antibody; our results showed that ubiquitin was present in the higher molecular mass fractions (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Therefore, VTC1 may be ubiquitinated in vivo to promote its degradation via the 26S proteasome system in darkness. Because light is an important environmental signal for VTC1 protein stability and VTC1 degradation is dependent upon CSN5B regulation, we asked whether CSN5B functionally contributes to maintenance of the AsA level in plants. Therefore, we compared the AsA contents of Col-0, csn5b, csn5a, and the typical cop phenotype mutant csn8. Our analyses demonstrated that csn5b, but not csn5a, contained higher AsA levels than Col-0 (Figure 5, left panel), indicating that CSN5A and CSN5B contribute differentially to the regulation of the AsA content. It is also noteworthy that the AsA content in csn8 was increased compared with that in Col-0 (Figure 5, left panel). To further investigate the role of CSN5B in regulating the plant AsA content, we measured the AsA content of the double mutant vtc1-1 csn5b. As reported previously, the AsA level in vtc1-1 was only 30% of that in Col-0, while that of the double mutant vtc1-1 csn5b was twofold higher than the level in vtc1-1 but was lower than in csn5b (Figure 5, left panel). These results demonstrate that a loss of CSN5B function enhanced AsA content but could not fully restore the AsA deficit induced by the reduced activity of VTC1 in vtc1-1. [[FIGURE]] To define the effect of CSN5B on the light-regulated AsA content in plants, we measured the AsA contents of Col-0, vtc1-1, and csn5b seedlings that were exposed to continuous darkness or light. After 24 h of darkness, Col-0 and vtc1-1 contained ∼30% less AsA than before treatment, but the AsA content of csn5b was unaffected (Figure 5, middle panel). By contrast, Col-0 contained 30% more AsA following 24 h of continuous light compared with the control, but no AsA content changes were observed in csn5b (Figure 5, right panel), suggesting that the loss of CSN5B function impaired the effect of light/darkness on the plant AsA content. Previous studies have demonstrated that AsA-deficient mutants are salt sensitive (CITATION) and that the transcriptional regulator ERF98 enhances salt resistance by activating VTC1 expression and AsA synthesis in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, we asked whether the regulation of VTC1 by CSN5B is responsible for salt stress tolerance. To address this, we transferred germinated seeds of various genotypes to Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium in the presence or absence of NaCl. No obvious differences were observed among the different genotypes under normal growth conditions. However, after exposure to 100 mM NaCl for 10 d, vtc1-1 csb5b and vtc1-1 displayed clearly retarded seedling growth compared with Col-0, including shorter roots, smaller leaves with shorter petioles and slower leaf growth, while the csn5b seedlings displayed shorter petioles and longer roots (Figure 6A). It is not surprising that vtc1-1 growth was severely inhibited due to its lower AsA content, whereas the double mutant vtc1-1 csn5b displayed better growth than vtc1-1 due to its increased AsA level. Further analysis showed that the fresh weight and root length in the vtc1-1 csb5b and vtc1-1 mutants were significantly less than those in Col-0, whereas the fresh weight and root elongation in the csn5b plants did not obviously change following salt treatment (Figure 6B). These results demonstrate that a loss of function of CSN5B enhances tolerance to salt. [[FIGURE]] AsA is an essential antioxidant in plants and animals and efficiently scavenges reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide radicals and oxidative stress–generated hydrogen peroxide (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Methyl viologen (MV) can reportedly generate superoxide radicals (CITATION). Because csn5b plants contain increased AsA levels, we speculated that CSN5B affects the oxidative stress response. To address this hypothesis, we treated csn5b mutants with 50 μM MV for 24 h. Compared with Col-0 seedlings, vtc1-1 was very sensitive to MV, whereas csn5b was insensitive to MV (see Supplemental Figure 5A online); these results are consistent with the environmental stress sensitivity of vtc1-1 (CITATION). Accumulated ROS may damage cellular DNA, lipids, and proteins, and malondialdehyde (MDA) is an important product of lipid peroxidation (CITATION); therefore, we examined the MDA content in plants of various genotypes. Indeed, vtc1-1 accumulated the most MDA, but the MDA content in csn5b was much lower than that in Col-0 following MV treatment, although no apparent differences were observed between Col-0 and csn5b plants under normal conditions (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). These results suggest that csn5b mutant plants show a reduced response to oxidative stress.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotypes Col-0 and Ws) were used in this study. The AsA-deficient mutant vtc1-1 (CITATION) was obtained from the ABRC. The cop mutants csn5b, csn5a, and csn8 (cop9-1) and the CSN5B-myc– and CSN5A-myc–overexpressing transgenic lines are described elsewhere (CITATION). The vtc1-1 csn5b double mutant was generated by crossing vtc1-1 with csn5b; the homozygous double mutant was identified by sequencing vtc1-1 and amplifying the csn5b T-DNA insertion using the primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Full-length or N-terminal NT cDNA of VTC1 was amplified by PCR using specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned in frame with an HA or GFP tag into pCAMBIA1307 (a derivative of pCAMBIA1300 carrying the 2*cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the Octopine synthase [OCS] terminator). The resulting plasmids were then separately introduced into Col-0 and csn5b, respectively, using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. The transgenic lines were selected with hygromycin and confirmed by PCR amplification. Approximately four to nine homozygous single-insertion lines were obtained for each transformation by analyzing the segregation ratio of T2 seeds grown on hygromycin. Transgenic plants overexpressing VTC1-HA in the Col-0 and csn5b backgrounds were named OE and OX, respectively, and the transgenic lines overexpressing NT in Col-0 or overexpressing VTC1-GFP in Col-0 and csn5b were named NT-HA, VTC1/Col-0, and VTC1/csn5b, respectively. The number that follows OE or OX indicates the transgenic line; lines OE2 and OX4, which displayed similar transcriptional levels, were used in this study. The CSN5B-myc transgenic lines were crossed with OE2 and NT-HA to produce F1 hybrids that were used for CoIP. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized and plated on solid MS medium containing 3% Suc. After ∼3 to 4 d of cold (4°C) treatment, the plates were stored in a 22°C incubator for propagation. The seedlings were transferred from the plates to a 1:1 mixture of soil and vermiculite and grown to maturity at 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle in a growth chamber. The light intensity was 50 μmol/m2/s and the humidity was 70%. To screen for interacting proteins, full-length VTC1 cDNA was cloned into pAS1-CYH2 as bait and transformed into yeast strain Y190 using the lithium acetate method. The cDNA library from 3-d-old etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings was obtained from the ABRC (CD4-22), and library plasmids (20 μg) fused to pACT were transformed into yeast strain Y190 carrying the VTC1 bait (CITATION). The entire transformation mixture was plated onto a minimal agar base containing a -Trp-Leu-His dropout supplement (SD-Trp-Leu-His) (Clontech) and 15 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) (Sigma-Aldrich). After screening for β-galactosidase activity (CITATION), plasmid DNA was recovered from the yeast transformants using a TIANprep yeast plasmid DNA kit (Tiangen) and then transformed into Escherichia coli for sequencing. To confirm the interaction, full-length and various VTC1 cDNA fragments were cloned into pAS1-CYH2 as bait, and truncated CSN5B was cloned into pACT as prey. The two plasmids were then cotransformed into yeast strain Y190 according to the previously described procedure. The specific primers used to amplify each fragment and gene are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. After growth on SD/-Trp-Leu or SD/-Trp-Leu-His medium, a filter assay was performed to test for β-galactosidase activity (CITATION). For the in vivo CoIP analysis, Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in immunoprecipitation buffer (CITATION) containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) (Sigma-Aldrich) and 1× Complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). After centrifugation, the supernatants were filtered through 0.2-μm filters (Whatman), and the protein concentration was determined using the bicinchoninic acid (CWBIO) protein assay. Total protein (1 mg) was incubated with 30 μL of monoclonal α-myc 9E10 immobilized onto Sepharose Fast Flow beads (9E10 affinity matrix; Covance) or 30 μL of anti-HA-tag mouse antibody agarose (A2095; Sigma-Aldrich) overnight at 4°C on a rotary shaker. The matrix beads were washed three times with immunoprecipitation buffer and twice with 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, and 5% glycerol. All of the wash steps were performed at 4°C for 10 min on a rotary shaker followed by centrifugation at 1500 rpm. The immunoprecipitated proteins were subsequently released by boiling in 5× SDS sample buffer and subjected to 12% SDS-PAGE. Immunoblot analyses using anti-HA and anti-myc antibodies (CWBIO) were then performed. For the in vivo pull-down analysis, pET30a-CSN5B was transformed into bacterial cells to produce recombinant His-CSN5B. The recombinant protein was purified using His-Select Nickel Affinity Gel (Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Total plant proteins (1 mg) of OE2 were incubated with 10 μg of purified His-CSN5B protein bound to nickel affinity gel overnight at 4°C on a rotary shaker. Full-length VTC1 and CSN5B were cloned into the BiFC vector containing either the N- or C-terminal fragment of yellow fluorescent protein (pSPYNE-35S/pUC-SPYNE and pSPYCE-35S/pUC-SPYCE) (CITATION), respectively. The primers used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Plasmid DNA was extracted using a TIANprep Midi plasmid kit (Tiangen). The extraction and transfection of the protoplasts and microscopy were performed as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in lysate buffer containing 20 mM Bis-Tris, pH 7.0, 500 mM ϵ-aminocaproic acid, 20 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, freshly made 1 mM PMSF, 1× Complete protease inhibitor cocktail, 50 mM Na3VO4, and 10 mM NaF. Gel filtration chromatography was performed as described previously (CITATION) except that the column was equilibrated with PBS containing 140 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 10 mM Na2HPO4, and 1.8 mM KH2PO4. For the immunoblot analysis, fractions 9 to 21 were concentrated using acetone precipitation. Equal volumes of each fraction were loaded and detected with an anti-HA antibody and antibodies against the CSN subunits α-CSN3, α-CSN5, and α-CSN6 described previously (CITATION). Nuclei were enriched using a plant nuclei isolation/extraction kit (Sigma-Aldrich) from 10 g of seedlings that were grown for 10 d on MS medium. Nuclei were isolated following the manufacturer’s instructions. After the addition of Triton X-100, the supernatant was used as the cytosolic protein component. Antibodies against actin (CWBIO) and histone H3 (Sigma-Aldrich) were used to verify the cytosolic and nuclear fractions, respectively. For the in vivo protein degradation analysis, 10-d-old seedlings grown on MS plates were transferred to liquid MS medium and grown for an additional 8 h. The seedlings were then incubated in liquid MS medium containing 500 μM cycloheximide (Sigma-Aldrich) (CITATION) with or without light (50 μmol/m2/s). For proteasome inhibition, 50 μM MG132 (Sigma-Aldrich) was added; DMSO (the solvent for MG132, 0.2%) was used as a negative control. Following incubation, the seedlings were thoroughly washed with liquid MS medium three times to remove any residual DMSO or MG132. Total RNAs and proteins were then extracted separately. Antibodies against actin or β-tubulin (CWBIO) were used to examine the protein loading levels. Anti-VTC1 antibodies were generated by injecting E. coli–expressed recombinant VTC1 into rabbits (Youke). Total proteins from 10-d-old OE2 seedlings were extracted with buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 4 M urea, and 1 mM PMSF as described previously (CITATION). The proteins (1 mg) were filtered and immunoprecipitated with agarose conjugated to anti-HA–tagged mouse antibodies for 4 h at room temperature as described above for CoIP; 50 μM MG132 was also added. The immunoprecipitation product was subjected to immunoblotting with anti-HA and antiubiquitin antibodies separately. The antiubiquitin monoclonal antibody has been described previously (CITATION). To measure the AsA levels, seedlings were grown on MS medium for 10 d. Approximately 0.1 g fresh weight of each sample was harvested and immediately ground in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle. A quantitative analysis of AsA was performed by HPLC using nicotinic acid as an internal standard as described previously (CITATION). The clear extracts (20 μL) were injected directly into the HPLC instrument (Shimadzu LC-10A), and chromatographic separation was achieved on an Agilent TC-C18 (250 × 4.6 mm, 5 μm) column and detected at 254 nm with an SPD M10A detector. Potassium dihydrogen phosphate (0.2 M) was used as the mobile phase; the pH was adjusted to 2.4 with phosphoric acid. AsA exists in oxidized and reduced forms in vivo. These different forms were transformed using AsA oxidase and DTT, respectively, and the difference in AsA peaks after oxidation reduction was used to determine the oxidized and reduced AsA contents, which together constituted the total AsA content. Two micrograms of total RNA from each genotype was used to synthesize first-strand cDNA by RT reaction, then the products were used as template for PCR or quantitative real-time PCR amplifications according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Bio-Rad iQ5), as previously described (CITATION). Twenty-five RT-PCR amplification cycles were performed for VTC1 and the internal control Tublin4. CSN5A and CSN5B expression levels were normalized to the expression level of the internal control Tublin4 in the quantitative PCR experiment. The primers used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. For the salt tolerance assay, germinated seeds were cultured on MS medium with or without the addition of 100 mM NaCl for 10 d under normal growth conditions (22°C, 16-h-white light/8-h-dark cycle, 50 μmol/m2/s). To induce oxidative stress, 4-week-old seedlings were treated with 50 μM MV for 24 h. Detection of MDA contents was performed as described previously (CITATION). The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: VTC1 (At2g39770), CSN5B (At1g71230), CSN5A (At1g22920), CSN1 (At3g61140), CSN2 (At2g26990), CSN3 (At5g14250), CSN4 (At5g42970), CSN6A (At5g56280), CSN6B (At4g26430), CSN7 (At1g02090), and CSN8 (At4g14110). The germplasm numbers are as follows: csn5b (SALK_007134) and csn5a (SALK_063436). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. CSN5A Shows Higher Transcript Levels Than CSN5B. Supplemental Figure 2. CSN5A Does Not Interact with VTC1 in Vivo. Supplemental Figure 3. CSN5B Promotes VTC1 Degradation in Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. Ubiquitinated VTC1 Is Associated with the CSN Complex. Supplemental Figure 5. The Mutant csn5b Exhibits Enhanced Tolerance to Oxidative Stress. Supplemental Figure 6. Alignment of the VTC1 N-Terminal Amino Acid Sequences of Different Species. Supplemental Table 1. List of the Primers Used in This Study.
