!~ABS~! Despite considerable progress in our knowledge regarding the cell cycle inhibitor of the Kip-related protein (KRP) family in plants, less is known about the coordination of endoreduplication and cell differentiation. In animals, the role of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors as multifunctional factors coordinating cell cycle regulation and cell differentiation is well documented and involves not only the inhibition of CDK/cyclin complexes but also other mechanisms, among them the regulation of transcription. Interestingly, several plant KRPs have a punctuated distribution in the nucleus, suggesting that they are associated with heterochromatin. Here, one of these chromatin-bound KRPs, KRP5, has been studied in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). KRP5 is expressed in endoreduplicating cells, and loss of KRP5 function decreases endoreduplication, indicating that KRP5 is a positive regulator of endoreduplication. This regulation relies on several mechanisms: in addition to its role in cyclin/CDK kinase inhibition previously described, chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data combined with transcript quantification provide evidence that KRP5 regulates the transcription of genes involved in cell wall organization. Furthermore, KRP5 overexpression increases chromocenter decondensation and endoreduplication in the Arabidopsis trithorax-related protein5 (atxr5) atxr6 double mutant, which is deficient for the deposition of heterochromatin marks. Hence, KRP5 could bind chromatin to coordinately control endoreduplication and chromatin structure and allow the expression of genes required for cell elongation.
!~RES~! Plasmids developed by CITATION allowing the expression of a nucleus-targeted GFP under the control of a promoter of interest were used to study KRP5 expression pattern. The KRP5 promoter was cloned upstream of a Nuclear Targeting Fusion protein (NTF) tagged with GFP and used for Arabidopsis transformation. We next used these transgenic lines to correlate the expression of KRP5 with the distribution of DNA content in rosette leaves, which show the highest level of endoreduplication in Arabidopsis. DNA content per nucleus from whole rosettes of T2 lines was measured and analyzed by flow cytometry simultaneously with GFP fluorescence at two different stages of development. In rosettes of 14-d-old plants, expression of KRP5 was observed in about 20% of the cells and was specifically enriched in endoreduplicating nuclei: 33% of GFP-positive nuclei had a DNA content of 8C or higher (compared with 15% in the total population; Fig. 1A). At later stages, when most leaves had reached maturity, 84% of nuclei were labeled, suggesting that KRP5 expression is associated with differentiation. Furthermore, the distribution of DNA content in GFP-positive nuclei was similar to the distribution observed in the whole population, which contains a high proportion of 4C and higher DNA contents (more than 65%), whereas the majority of GFP-negative nuclei have a 2C DNA content (about 65%; Supplemental Fig. S1). A profiling of plants expressing a 35S::GFP construct was done as a control to make sure that GFP expression did not alter DNA content distribution and that GFP did not accumulate preferentially in some nuclei (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] To examine the roles of KRP5 on plant growth and development, Arabidopsis transgenic lines were generated in which the KRP5 complementary DNA (cDNA) was expressed under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (KRP5OE plants). Their effective overexpression was monitored using reverse transcription and quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses (Fig. 1B). Surprisingly, KRP5OE plants did not display reduced growth, as observed for the overexpression of other KRPs (Supplemental Fig. S3). To analyze the effects of KRP5 overexpression on DNA ploidy distribution, the DNA content of cauline leaf nuclei in the wild type and 35 independent transgenic KRP5OE lines was measured by flow cytometry. In the wild type, endoreduplication occurs in cauline leaves, but it is not as high as in rosette leaves. In all KRP5OE lines, increases in the 8C and 16C populations was observed, correlated with a decrease in the proportion of nuclei with 2C DNA content, illustrating an activation of the endoreduplication cycle (Fig. 1C; Supplemental Table S1). These results suggest that KRP5 is involved in the activation of endoreduplication. To confirm this result, we asked whether the accumulation of KRP5 in the nucleus was associated with higher DNA content. Flow cytometry allowed us to monitor DNA content and GFP fluorescence simultaneously. KRP5-GFP was detected almost exclusively in endoreduplicated nuclei with an 8C and higher DNA content and in some nuclei with a 4C DNA content, which could correspond to a first round of endoreduplication (Fig. 1D). This observation supports the hypothesis that KRP5 stimulates endoreduplication. To provide further evidence for a role of KRP5 as a positive regulator of endoreduplication, we asked whether the loss of KRP5 may result in a reduction of endoreduplication. A search in Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant collections was performed. An Arabidopsis insertion line (SK_27217) was obtained from the SALK collection of T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION; Fig. 2A). The genotype of this krp5 mutant, which contains an insertion in the first exon, was confirmed by PCR. qRT-PCR analysis was used to assess the effect of the T-DNA mutation on the KRP5 transcript in homozygous mutant plants. This analysis showed that the expression of the KRP5 gene in the krp5 mutant corresponds to 10% of that in the wild-type Columbia plants (Fig. 2B), indicating that the mutation is not a full knockout but severely affects the expression of the KRP5 gene. [[FIGURE]] We did not observe any difference in the DNA content of nuclei isolated from mature leaves (data not shown). We reasoned that KRPs may have partially redundant functions and that expression analysis may help us to identify in which particular cellular context KRP5 could have a prominent role in the regulation of endoreduplication. A survey of publicly available gene expression data (https://www.genevestigator.com/gu/) revealed that KRP5 is highly expressed in dark-grown seedlings. To confirm this, we compared KRP5 expression in dark- and light-grown seedlings. We observed an 8-fold induction of KRP5 expression in dark versus light conditions (Fig. 2C). Accordingly, in etiolated seedlings, we observed that the level of endoreduplication correlated with GFP labeling in the KRP5::NTF-GFP lines (Supplemental Fig. S4). Hypocotyl growth in etiolated seedlings is mediated only by cell elongation and is associated with increased endoreduplication (CITATION; CITATION). Together with the increased expression of KRP5 in the dark, this suggests that KRP5 could regulate endoreduplication during etiolation. To test this, the DNA content of nuclei isolated from etiolated 7-d-old plantlets of the wild type and the krp5 mutant was measured by flow cytometry. Etiolated krp5 mutants displayed a moderate but reproducible decrease in the 16C population (Student’s t test, P = 0.0049), providing evidence for an inhibition of the endoreduplication cycle in the mutant context (Fig. 2D; Supplemental Table S2). This result is consistent with the opposite effect of KRP5 overexpression observed in the same condition (Fig. 2D; Supplemental Table S2). This reduction of the proportion of 16C nuclei was reversed by the introduction of the 35S::KRP5-GFP construct in the mutant background, demonstrating that reintroduction of the KRP5 cDNA complements the mutant phenotype (Fig. 2D; Supplemental Table S2). We also checked the level of endoreduplication in krp5 mutants grown under the light condition, and no difference was observed compared with the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S5). Because there is strong evidence that the level of ploidy has some impact on cell size determination (CITATION), cortical cell sizes of etiolated hypocotyls were compared between the wild type, KRP5OE, and the krp5 mutant. As shown in Figure 2E, cell size distribution indicated that, globally, cortical cells are longer in the hypocotyls of KRP5OE compared with the wild type, whereas these cells are shorter in krp5 mutants. This observation is consistent with differences in the ploidy levels obtained for each genotype. We also measured the total hypocotyl length of the wild type, KRP5OE, and the krp5 mutant, and no significant differences were observed (Supplemental Fig. S6), indicating either that the differences in cell size are not important enough to affect the global organ size or that cell number is altered in these plants. Taken together, our results point to a role of KRP5 as a positive regulator of endoreduplication, raising the question of the molecular mechanisms underlying this function. The primary role of KRPs is to inhibit CDK/cyclin complexes. Therefore, we asked whether KRP5 could promote endoreduplication via CDK/cyclin inactivation. As stated above, KRPs preferentially bind D-type cyclins. The synthesis of D-type cyclins is initiated during G1 and drives the G1/S-phase transition. Constitutive overexpression of CYCD3;1 in Arabidopsis plants leads to dramatic changes in plant morphology. CYCD3;1-overexpressing plants also show an increase in the proportion of cells with a 4C DNA content, and CYCD3s have been identified as negative regulators of endoreduplication (CITATION). To determine whether KRP5 could inhibit CDK/CYCD3;1 activity and rescue the CYCD3;1 overexpression phenotype, we transformed CYCD3;1-overexpressing lines with the 35S:KRP5-GFP construct. The presence of the KRP5 transgene was monitored via qRT-PCR analyses and GFP visualization. Interestingly, the phenotype of the CYCD3OE/KRP5OE cooverexpression plants was similar to that of the wild type (Fig. 3A), suggesting that these two proteins have antagonistic activities in planta. Furthermore, flow cytometry analysis revealed that CYCD3OE/KRP5OE plants displayed wild-type levels of endoreduplication in cauline leaves, demonstrating that KRP5 overexpression overcomes the effect of CYCD3;1 overexpression (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Fig. S7; Supplemental Table S3). Hence, KRP5 could promote endoreduplication by inhibiting CYCD3. However, other mechanisms may also contribute to the KRP5-dependent activation of endoreduplication. For example, in mammals, p21, a KIP protein, regulates differentiation by directly modulating gene expression (CITATION). Because KRP5 has a punctate distribution in nuclei, we investigated its ability to bind chromatin. [[FIGURE]] To examine the subnuclear distribution of KRP5, we performed immunodetection experiments using an antibody raised against GFP and with an H3K9me2 antibody, which is a cytological mark for visible heterochromatin. Immunostaining showed that the KRP5-GFP signal was located inside and outside chromocenters (Fig. 4A), as reported previously for other KRPs (CITATION; CITATION). These observations prove that KRP5 localizes into euchromatic and heterochromatic regions, suggesting that it could play a role in chromatin structure. [[FIGURE]] To identify KRP5-binding sites, we performed ChIP-seq on chromatin isolated from Arabidopsis plantlets. The MACS (for model-based analysis of ChIP-seq) algorithm was used to determine which loci are significantly enriched for KRP5-GFP (Fig. 4B). The MACS algorithm is designed to detect transcription factor-binding events, which typically produce short peaks with strong signal intensity (CITATION). We identified around 1,090 KRP5-bound genomic loci (Supplemental Table S4). First, we analyzed the KRP5 peak distance to the transcriptional start site (TSS); we showed that KRP5 binding was not centered on the TSS and that the Gaussian curve displays its maximum at 1,000 bp downstream of the TSS (Fig. 4C). To annotate the KRP5-binding sites, we used the Genomic Position Annotation Tool (CITATION). Of these loci, 5% were identified as pseudogenes, 1% as tRNA, 69% as transposable elements, and 25% as protein-coding genes (Fig. 4D). These data were consistent with the dual subnuclear localization of KRP5 in chromocenters, which are known to be full of transposable elements, and in euchromatin. To analyze the Gene Ontology (GO) of the 25% protein-coding KRP5 target genes, we used an integrated Web-based GO analysis toolkit, AgriGO, and generated a hierarchical tree graph of overrepresented GO terms in the biological process category, showing a significant enrichment in “plant type cell wall organization” (Fig. 4D). This result suggests a role of KRP5 in the regulation of genes involved in plant cell wall organization and in heterochromatin structure, raising the question of the mechanisms allowing its recruitment on chromatin. To identify chromatin-related proteins that may facilitate KRP5 binding on chromatin, we searched for interacting partners. AtBAF60, a subunit of the putative SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex, was previously characterized by Tandem Affinity Purification of Tagged Proteins experiment as a KRP5 partner (CITATION). To confirm that KRP5 proteins can interact with AtBAF60, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation in protoplasts isolated from BY-2 cell suspensions (CITATION). BY-2 cell protoplasts were transformed with constructs encoding a fusion between KRP5 and the N-terminal region of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; KRP5-YFPN) and between the whole AtBAF60 amino acid sequence and the C-terminal region of YFP (AtBAF60-YFPC). As shown in Supplemental Figure S8, YFP fluorescence could be detected in the nucleus of protoplasts cotransformed with KRP5-YFPN and AtBAF60-YFPC, demonstrating that KRP5 can interact with AtBAF60 in plant cells. These results suggest that KRP5 could bind chromatin and control transcription through the action of chromatin-remodeling complexes. To determine if a correlation exists between chromatin-bound KRP5 and a transcriptional activation or repression, we first selected a set of KRP5-binding genes: CDC20.1, a gene involved in endoreduplication regulation; AtGRP9, AtRX2, EXT10, and EXT2, which are involved in cell wall structure; and Copia78, a transposable element. All of these target genes were confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-PCR (Supplemental Fig. S9). Then, the expression levels of these genes were quantified by qRT-PCR, showing a correlation between the presence of KRP5 and an activation of the transcription (Fig. 5). These results suggest that KRP5 could act directly to promote gene transcription, unraveling a new mechanism by which KRP5 may control endoreduplication or cell differentiation. However, 69% of KRP5-binding sites do not correspond to euchromatin but to heterochromatin regions, which raises the question of the role of KRP5 at these sites. [[FIGURE]] Previous work showed that ARABIDOPSIS TRITHORAX-RELATED PROTEIN5 (ATXR5) and ATXR6, two redundant genes encoding histone methyltransferases, play a critical role in maintaining heterochromatin condensation and gene silencing in Arabidopsis. Moreover, these proteins can act to suppress DNA rereplication in heterochromatic regions of the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). Because we found KRP5 to bind to heterochromatin, we asked whether this association could also participate in the control of endoreduplication. To test this, we transformed the atxr5 atxr6 double mutant with the 35S:KRP5-GFP construct. Then, we measured the DNA content of the first cauline leaf nuclei in the atxr5 atxr6 double mutant, KRP5OE, and in five independent atxr5 atxr6/KRP5OE lines by flow cytometry. We observed that the proportion of 16C nuclei was increased when KRP5 was overexpressed in the atxr5 atxr6 double mutant context compared with KRP5OE alone (Fig. 6A; Supplemental Table S1). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the increase in endoreduplication could be correlated with a destabilization of the chromatin structure, we performed cytological observation of leaf nuclei. As shown in Figure 6B, overexpression of KRP5 in the atxr5 atxr6 double mutant context dramatically decreased the heterochromatin compaction. Twenty-one percent of KRP5OE atxr5/atxr6 nuclei presented this specific chromatin phenotype; comparatively, 0% of wild-type, KRP5OE, and atxr5 atxr6 nuclei showed this strong phenotype (n = 100). Altogether, our results suggested that condensation of heterochromatin functions as a barrier to endoreduplication and that KRP5 can promote heterochromatin decondensation when the deposition of H3K27me1 is inhibited.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in chambers at 20°C on soil or on sterile one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium and 7.5% agar in long-day (16 h of light) conditions. Seeds were surface sterilized by treatment with Bayrochlore (Bayrol) for 20 min, washed, and imbibed in sterile water for 2 to 4 d at 4°C to obtain homogeneous germination. The T-DNA insertion line krp5 (SK_27217) from the SALK collection of T-DNA insertion lines was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The double mutant atxr5 atxr6 was obtained from Scott D. Michaels. Total RNA were extracted from seedlings with the RNeasy MiniPrep kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 2 μg of total RNA using Improm-II reverse transcriptase (A3802; Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. A 1/25th fraction of the synthesized cDNA was mixed with 100 nm of each primer and LightCycler 480 Sybr Green I master mix (Roche Applied Science) for quantitative PCR analysis. Products were amplified and fluorescent signals were acquired with a LightCycler 480 detection system. The specificity of amplification products was determined by melting curves. AtPTF2 was used as an internal control for signal normalization. Exor4 relative quantification software (Roche Applied Science) automatically calculates relative expression levels of the selected genes with algorithms based on the comparative threshold cycle method. Data were from duplicates of at least two biological replicates. The sequences of primers can be found in Supplemental Table S5. The 1,617 bp upstream of the ATG was amplified with Pfu DNA polymerase (primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S4) and cloned in pGEM-T Easy vector. After sequencing, a BamHI/SpeI fragment was cloned in the intact system developed by CITATION. Transformed BY-2 protoplasts were directly imaged on a TCS-SP2 upright microscope (Leica Microsystems). To observe YFP, excitation was at 514 nm, and the spectral detector was set between 520 and 550 nm. Transmitted light was also collected. All images were acquired with similar gain adjustments. ChIP assays were performed on 10-d-old in vitro seedlings using anti-GFP (Santa Cruz) or IgG control (Millipore) antibodies using a procedure adapted from CITATION. Briefly, after plant material fixation in 1% (v/v) formaldehyde, tissues were homogenized and nuclei were isolated and lysed. Cross-linked chromatin was sonicated using a water bath Bioruptor UCD-200 (Diagenode; 30-s-on/30-s-off pulses, at high intensity for 24 min). Protein/DNA complexes were immunoprecipitated with antibodies overnight at 4°C with gentle shaking and incubated for 1 h at 4°C with 50 μL of Dynabeads Protein A (Invitrogen; 100-02D). Immunoprecipitated DNA was then recovered using the IPure kit (Diagenode) and analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. An aliquot of untreated sonicated chromatin was processed in parallel and used as the total input DNA control. The sequences of primers can be found in Supplemental Table S5. After immunoprecipitation of the chromatin, ChIP-seq libraries were generated and sequenced. In this work, we used the anti-GFP antibody for ChIP-seq, and input chromatin was used as a control to minimize biologically irrelevant experimental bias. Alignment was performed using Bowtie (CITATION) version 0.12.7 on the Arabidopsis genome (The Arabidopsis Information Resource 10). Default Bowtie parameters were used except as follows: -best -strata (used to get the best mapping position with the minimum of mismatch). Peak calling was performed with MACS (CITATION) and gene annotation with the Genomic Position Annotation Tool (CITATION). Seedlings were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PHEM (60 mm PIPES, 25 mm HEPES, 10 mm EGTA, and 2 mm MgCl2, pH 6.9) during 1 h at room temperature (apply vacuum for 20 min to facilitate uptake of the fixation solution). Seedlings were washed 5 min in PHEM and 5 min in phosphate buffered saline (PBS), pH 6.9, and chopped on a petri dish in PBS supplemented with 0.1% (w/v) Triton. The mixture was filtered (50 µm) and centrifugated 10 min at 2,000g. The supernatant was carefully removed, and the pellet was washed once with PBS, gently resuspended in 20 µL of PBS, and a drop was placed on a poly-Lys slide and air dried. Slides were rehydrated with PBS and permeabilized two times by 10 min of incubation in PBS plus 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20 (PBST). Slides were placed in a moist chamber and incubated overnight at 4°C with primary antibody anti-H3K9me2 (Millipore; 07-441) or anti-GFP (Santa Cruz) in PBST supplemented with bovine serum albumin (3%, w/v). Slides were washed five times for 10 min each in PBST (at room temperature) and incubated 1 h at room temperature in the dark with the secondary antibody (Alexa Fluor 594 goat anti-rabbit; A11037; Invitrogen) diluted 1:400 (v/v) in PBST and 3% bovine serum albumin. Slides were washed five times for 10 min each in PBST. Slides were mounted with a drop of Vectashield with 4′,6-diamino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) and observed as described for pollen mitosis analysis with the suitable cube fluorescence filters (Band Pass [BP] 340–380, Dichroic Splitter [DS] 400, BP 450–490 for DAPI; BP 570–590, DS 595, BP 605–655 for A594). For flow cytometric nuclei analysis, tissues were chopped with a razor blade in 1 mL of Galbraith buffer supplemented with 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone 10,000, 5 mm metabisulfite, and 5 mg mL−1 RNase from a stock solution at 50 units mg−1. Propidium iodide was added to the filtered supernatants at 50 μg mL−1. Endoreduplication levels of 5,000 to 10,000 stained nuclei were determined using a Cyflow SL flow cytometer (Partec) with a 532-nm solid-state laser (100 mW) excitation and emission collected after a 590-nm long-pass filter. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Nuclear DNA content distribution of GFP+ and GFP− nuclei isolated from rosette leaves of Arabidopsis KRP5::NTF-GFP plants. Supplemental Figure S2. DNA content distributions of nuclei isolated from leaves of 35S::GFP plants. Supplemental Figure S3. Phenotype of the KRP5-overexpressing line. Supplemental Figure S4. DNA content distributions of nuclei isolated from KRP5::NTF-GFP hypocotyls of 7-d-old dark-grown seedlings. Supplemental Figure S5. DNA content distributions of nuclei isolated from light-grown wild-type plants, krp5 mutants, and KRP5OE. Supplemental Figure S6. Average hypocotyl lengths of etiolated seedlings of krp5, wild-type, and KRP5OE plants. Supplemental Figure S7. DNA content distribution in nuclei of rosette leaves isolated from the wild type, AtCYCD3;1 overexpressors, and three different double transformant CycD3;1OE/KRP5OE lines. Supplemental Figure S8. Interaction between KRP5 and AtBAF60 visualized by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. Supplemental Figure S9. ChIP from KRP5OE transgenic plants was performed using anti-GFP or anti-IgG antibody. Supplemental Table S1. Quantification of nuclear DNA content distribution in the first cauline leaf of wild-type, KRP5OE, atxr5 atxr6, and KRP5OE atxr5 atxr6 plants. Supplemental Table S2. Quantification of nuclear DNA content distribution in hypocotyls of 7-d-old dark-grown seedlings of the wild type, krp5, krp5 KRP5OE, and KRP5OE. Supplemental Table S3. Quantification of nuclear DNA content distribution in the wild type, CYCD3;1OE, and KRP5OE CYCD3;1OE from 14-d-old growing plantlets. Supplemental Table S4. List of KRP5 target genes. Supplemental Table S5. Primer sequences.
