!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! Nitrilases are self‐polymerizing proteins, as shown for recombinantly expressed bacterial protein in vitro (Thuku et al., CITATION). Aggregation of Arabidopsis NIT1‐GFP was observed in early stages of PCD by Cutler & Somerville (CITATION), but high‐molecular‐mass forms of plant nitrilases were not characterized. There are four genes encoding nitrilases in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome (Fig. S1a). NIT1, NIT2 and NIT3 (referred to as NIT1 homologues) code for proteins sharing high amino acid similarities (84–90%), while their similarity with NIT4 is lower (66–68%). There are orthologues of NIT1 in bacteria, fungi, and animals (Fig. S1b). In order to study the biochemical properties of the protein and its cellular distribution, we prepared antibody against a peptide derived from the C‐terminus of NIT1. On Western blots of crude extracts of Arabidopsis cultured cells and seedlings, the affinity purified antibody detected a band of c. 38 kDa, corresponding to the calculated NIT1 molecular mass (Fig. S2). We also prepared NIT1 C‐ and N‐terminal GFP fusion constructs under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (p35S::NIT1‐GFP and p35S::GFP‐NIT1) as well as a NIT1 N‐terminal GFP fusion under the control of NIT1 promoter (pNIT1::GFP‐NIT1). We transformed Arabidopsis cultured cells and plants using these constructs. The NIT1 GFP fusion proteins had the expected 65 kDa molecular mass detected on Western blots as a single band (Figs 1b, S2).  [[FIGURE]] In order to learn about NIT1 molecular forms, we used differential centrifugation. Differential centrifugation from crude cellular extracts showed that endogenous NIT1 remained in the supernatant (S100) and a portion of it was pelleted to the microsomal fraction at 100 000 g (P100). At 160 000 g a further fraction of NIT1 was pelleted from the S100 (P160). The fact that NIT1 was sedimented to high‐speed pellets also when differential centrifugation was performed with the nonionic detergent NP‐40 suggested that higher molecular forms of NIT1 were not membrane‐bound (Fig. 1a). Differential centrifugation performed from extracts of cells transformed with pNIT1::GFP‐NIT1 construct showed a similar distribution of GFP‐NIT1 to the endogenous NIT1 (Fig. 1b).  The presence of NIT1 in large molecular assemblies was also indicated by the broad range of molecular masses of the immunopurified GFP‐NIT1 separated under native conditions by blue native PAGE (Fig. 1c). Similarly, gel filtration chromatography of the re‐solubilized microsomal P100 pellets also showed a broad size distribution of NIT1 with no significant maxima, ranging from the column void volume at > 2 MDa through to fractions of c. 440‐kDa‐oligomeric forms (Fig. 1d). We conclude that NIT1 exists both as soluble and high‐molecular‐mass forms.  In order to analyse the composition of the high‐molecular‐mass forms of NIT1, we immunopurified the complex through the GFP tag and identified the proteins from SDS PAGE silver stained gels by MALDI‐MS (Fig. S3). Together with GFP‐NIT1, we found untagged endogenous NIT1 and NIT2 in almost equimolar amounts, suggesting that the large molecular mass forms are assemblies of NIT1 and NIT2.  Next we analysed the high‐molecular‐mass fractions from gel filtration enriched for NIT1, based on Western blot detection (Fig. 1d, asterisks), by electron microscopy (EM). Negative stain EM revealed highly ordered linear filaments of variable lengths (Fig. 2a). These polymers, of up to 200 nm or occasionally longer, exhibited helical substructures, strongly resembling the earlier described filaments of recombinant bacterial nitrilase assembled in vitro (Thuku et al., CITATION). Closer inspection and measurements of several independent preparations demonstrated that the Arabidopsis putative nitrilase filaments have a uniform diameter of 12 ± 2 nm (mean ± SD, n = 356). To confirm the identity of filaments, we performed immunogold labelling of the samples from gel filtration with anti‐NIT1 antibody. As shown in Fig. 2(b), the 12 ± 2 nm‐diameter filamentous structures were specifically decorated by the anti‐NIT1 antibody and secondary antibody coupled with gold particles. NIT1 labelling was preferentially associated with more open parts of the filaments (Fig. 2b, inset III), probably due to better accessibility of the epitope. Taken together, our biochemical analysis revealed the high‐molecular‐mass assemblies of Arabidopsis nitrilases that were visualized by EM as filamentous assemblies.  [[FIGURE]] We confirmed the stress‐induced aggregation of NIT1 in the vicinity of nuclei described by Cutler & Somerville (CITATION). However, we also noticed microtubular localization in untreated proliferating cells, which we characterized further in Arabidopsis cultured cells by double‐immunofluorescence labelling with affinity purified antibody against NIT1 and anti‐α‐tubulin antibody (Fig. 3a), or in cells transformed with pNIT1::GFP‐NIT1 construct (Fig. 3b). NIT1 was mostly present in the cytoplasm, but in mitotic cells it localized with microtubules. A weak signal was associated with the preprophase band of cortical microtubules; in metaphase, NIT1 was enriched in the spindle area, and during cytokinesis NIT1 was present in the phragmoplast area and in the area of cell plate formation (Fig. 3a).  [[FIGURE]] GFP‐NIT1, expressed under its own promoter in several stable cultured Arabidopsis cell lines showed similar localization patterns in vivo as observed for endogenous NIT1 protein visualized by immunofluorescence (Fig. 3b). In interphase, the signals for GFP‐NIT1 were present in the cytoplasm, in the vicinity of the nuclei and weakly in the nuclei. A portion of GFP‐NIT1 signal was localized with the mitotic spindle and was enriched with the phragmoplast during cytokinesis. When expression was driven from the 35S CaMV promoter, the GFP signal was stronger, particularly in the cytoplasm (Videos S1, S2). However, the enrichment of 35SGFP‐NIT1 with mitotic spindle and cytokinetic apparatus was comparable to that observed for GFP‐NIT1 expressed from its own promoter.  The microtubule associated NIT1 signal was enriched in taxol‐treated cells (Fig. 4a). To confirm the association of NIT1 with microtubules, we performed a co‐sedimentation assay with taxol‐induced polymerization of microtubules from high‐speed S70 supernatant (Drykova et al., CITATION). As shown in Fig. 4(b), NIT1 was detected with pelleted plant microtubules in the presence of taxol, but not in negative controls without taxol. However, unlike γ‐tubulin that became further enriched in the pellet by the addition of taxol‐stabilized brain microtubules (Drykova et al., CITATION), the portion of NIT1 pelleted in the presence or absence of taxol‐stabilized brain microtubules remained approximately the same. Next we depolymerized microtubules with amiprophos methyl (APM), which led to the dispersion of NIT1 in the cytosol (Fig. 4c). As we showed previously, the remnants of kinetochore microtubules left after APM treatment are abundantly decorated with γ‐tubulin (Binarova et al., CITATION), but hardly any NIT1 signal could be detected with the kinetochore microtubular stubs. Our data showed that a portion of NIT1 protein was associated with microtubules but not with sites of microtubule nucleation (Drykova et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Signal for GFP‐NIT1 under the control of its native promoter was observed predominantly in the meristematic zone of primary roots and in developing young leaves (Fig. 5a). In proliferating cells the GFP‐NIT1 signal was diffusely present in the cytoplasm (Figs 5c, S4a). As in cultured cells (Fig. 3a,b) it was somewhat enriched with mitotic microtubules (Fig. 5b). As cells exit proliferation, the nuclear signal became stronger in cells at the expansion and differentiation zones of roots (Figs 5c,d, S4b).  [[FIGURE]] The nit1–3 mutant allele was originally identified based on its resistance to auxin (Normanly et al., CITATION), but later it was shown that IAA synthesis rates and concentrations were similar to wild‐type (Ljung et al., CITATION). NIT1–3 are members of a small gene family with overlapping expression pattern and possibly redundant functions. To gain insights into nitrilase function, we downregulated NIT1–3 expression in Arabidopsis plants using a dsRNA interference construct composed of a hairpin with inverted repeats, corresponding to a 335‐bp fragment of the central part of the NIT1 molecule with significant sequence similarities to NIT1–3 homologues (NIT‐RNAi). Several independent transformations were performed with the NIT‐RNAi construct alongside an empty vector pART27 using the Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia, an Arabidopsis line expressing the GFP marker for tubulin (GFP‐MAP4; Marc et al., CITATION) and GFP marker for plasmatic membrane (Cutler et al., CITATION). Independent of the genetic backgrounds, and the transformation events, the T1‐independent transformants with NIT‐RNAi showed similar phenotypes ranging from milder to severe reduction of leaf and root growth (Fig. 6a,b). The phenotypes were not observed in plants transformed with empty vector. When the first true leaves of NIT‐RNAi plants developed they were small and thick (arrows in Fig. 6c), abaxial polarity and tissue organization was gradually lost and leaves turned into disorganized structures (asterisk in Fig. 6c). In the strongest cases, callus‐like structures were formed at the shoot apex instead of true leaves from the very beginning (arrowhead in Fig. 6c). NIT‐RNAi plants with reduced levels of NIT1–3 expression could not reach maturity and produce seeds and therefore we could only analyse seedlings in the T1 generation. To link the developmental abnormalities to the transformation with the NIT‐RNAi construct, we counted the frequency of T1‐independent transformants showing the phenotype obtained from independent transformations carried out at different times. We found that the phenotype always occurred with a frequency ranging from 30% to 60%, while with the empty vector this was 0%.  [[FIGURE]] We determined by quantitative RT‐PCR the reduction of NIT1–4 expression in c. 60 independent NIT‐RNAi T1 transformants showing the characteristic phenotypes. There was c. 80% reduction in three of the nitrilases, NIT1–3 in the NIT‐RNAi transformants compared to the controls (Fig. S5a). To correlate the strength of phenotypes with the reduction of NIT1 expression, we analysed independent T1 NIT‐RNAi transformants with phenotypes ranging from milder to severe abnormalities in true leaf differentiation and compared the NIT1 expression levels to that of wild‐type controls. The reduction of NIT1 expression in the NIT‐RNAi lines correlated with the severity of the observed phenotypes (Fig. S5b). Furthermore, similar developmental defects were not found in plants transformed with other unrelated dsRNA constructs, such as NodGS (Doskocilova et al., CITATION) or γ‐tubulin (Binarova et al., CITATION) suggesting that the phenotypes we observed are specific for the NIT‐RNAi construct and are the result of the silencing of NIT1–3 expression.  In order to further analyse the leaf developmental defects, we microscopically inspected the first true leaves of 6–19‐d‐old seedlings from at least 100 independent NIT‐RNAi seedlings with developmental abnormalities that were labelled with DAPI to stain nuclei. All of these plants showed similar type of defects at the cellular level; typical examples are shown in Fig. 7. Cells of young leaves of NIT‐RNAi plants became large with grossly enlarged nuclei in comparison to the control. Also the regular line of marginal cells was disrupted and replaced by protrusions from highly enlarged cells (Fig. 7a). The enlarged cells of young malformated leaves of NIT‐RNAi plants retained a high nuclei to cytoplasm volume ratio, typical for cells of meristem and leaf primordial, and did not become vacuolated. Correspondingly, cells with giant nuclei remained mitotically active. We observed all stages of mitosis from prophase to anaphase with a highly increased number of chromosomes, ranging from 20 to 60, instead of the regular diploid number of 10 in wild type (Fig. 7b,c). This suggested that the increased nuclei size did not arise through the process of endoreduplication (repeated S‐phases) but likely through abnormal cell division.  [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm the increased ploidy, we analysed DNA content by flow cytometry. We collected newly emerging leaves 3–4 and older leaves 1–2 from seedlings 16 d post germination from WT plants and the malformed leaves from NIT‐RNAi seedlings at the same age. In wild‐type control seedlings, cells of leaves 1–2 have entered endoreduplication and increased DNA content up to 8C while cells of the newly emerging leaves 3–4 were still diploid with 2C and 4C DNA content. By contrast, as shown in Fig. 7(d), for the malformed leaves of 16‐d‐old NIT‐RNAi a grossly increased DNA content up to 32C and an almost complete lack of 2C DNA level were observed. To prove that the increased DNA content measured by flow cytometry in NIT‐RNAi leaves is caused by polyploidy and not by increased level of endoreduplication, which naturally occurs in plant cells during development, we counted chromocentra. The chromocentra are formed by heterochromatin aggregates corresponding to mitotic centromeres (Fransz et al., CITATION). The average number of chromocentra in NIT‐RNAi plants was 18.1 ± 8.0 (n = 287) compared to 8.2 ± 1.4 (n = 224) in control plants. In addition, in cells of NIT‐RNAi leaves there is a broad variation in chromocentra number (6–79; Fig. 7e,f), which also corresponds with the lack of distinct peaks in the flow cytometry measurements, and indicates high genome instability in the NIT‐RNAi plants. The mitotic figures and the counting of chromocentra firmly established that increased DNA content in the NIT‐RNAi cells is not the consequence of elevated levels of endoreduplication.  Taken together, our data show that nitrilases are required to repress the entry into proliferation and in their absence cells become largely polyploid.  As polyploid cells often show cytokinetic failure, we searched for cytokinetic defects. Although the cotyledons of NIT‐RNAi seedlings had no morphological abnormalities (Fig. 6b), closer inspection revealed that 74% of stomata were aberrant (Fig. 8a). Cytokinetic defects of stomata in cotyledons were early signs of the NIT‐RNAi phenotype in T1‐independent transformants (Fig. 8b). Round‐shaped undivided mother guard cells, single guard cells, cells with aborted cell wall stubs – all indicating defective cytokinesis – were observed in cotyledons of NIT‐RNAi seedlings. Abortive cytokinesis of stomata was also present in hypocotyls of NIT‐RNAi seedlings (Fig. 8b). In true leaves with milder phenotypes, stomata were present, but both the stomata and pavement cells had extremely frequent cytokinetic defects (Fig. 8c). Hallmarks of aberrant cytokinesis, such as cell wall stubs, enlarged nuclei, fusion of nuclei or binuclear cells, were all abundant (Fig. 8c–e). Binuclear cells remained in the cell cycle and were capable to enter into S‐phase, as revealed by positive labelling of replicating nuclei after a 3 h pulse in EdU assay (Fig. 8d). Although c. 100 independent NIT‐RNAi T1 transformants were evaluated, we did not observe clustering of stomata, indicating that the cytokinesis but not cell lineage patterning during stomata development was affected in NIT‐RNAi plants.  [[FIGURE]] Although developmental abnormalities were more prominent in aerial parts, root development was also affected by silenced NIT1–3 expression (Fig. S6). At the elongation zone, where normally cells exit the cell cycle, in NIT‐RNAi, a large proportion of cells still remained in proliferation. The abnormally enlarged nuclei were detected by EdU labelling to go through DNA synthesis (Fig. S6a). In comparison to WT roots, the meristematic zone of primary roots of NIT‐RNAi seedlings was markedly shortened and malformed; there were irregular cell files with cells having enlarged nuclei or two nuclei, suggesting defects in cytokinesis also in root cells (arrowheads in Fig. S6b).  We aimed to study the effect of overexpression of GFP‐NIT1 driven by the 35S promoter, but among 20 independent transformants we could not obtain lines with significant overexpression, and plants expressing GFP‐NIT1 at comparable levels to wild‐type had no discernible phenotypic effects (Fig. S2). This indicates that the expression of NIT1 in plants is tightly regulated. Contrary to moderate expressions found in the plants, we could obtain lines with high GFP‐NIT1 expression in cultured Arabidopsis cells transformed with the p35::GFP‐NIT1 construct (Fig. S2).  The effect of GFP‐NIT1 overproduction on growth and division was analysed in three independent transformed cell lines. To determine whether the entry into S‐phase is affected by higher NIT1 levels, we applied a 3 h pulse labelling of EdU immediately after subculture of stationary grown cells. As shown in Fig. 9(a), the proportion of cells labelled for S‐phase during the first 3 h after subculture was reduced two‐ to three‐fold in the GFP‐NIT1 overexpression line as compared to the control. Reduced entry and pass through S‐phase in GFP‐NIT1 overexpressing lines was confirmed also by flow cytometry. We found a lower proportion of cells with G2 DNA content 24 h after subculture in 35S::GFP‐NIT1 overexpression lines as compared to control (Fig. 9b). The lower number of cells progressing through the cell cycle within 24 h after subculture corresponded to the lower mitotic index (Fig. 9c). Furthermore, the growth rate of the overexpression lines determined by measuring fresh cell mass was lower compared to control (Fig. 9d).  [[FIGURE]] NIT1 is implicated in PCD both in animal and plant cells (Cutler & Somerville, CITATION; Zhang et al., CITATION). Clustering of GFP‐NIT1 in early PCD of Arabidopsis was described by Cutler & Somerville (CITATION). To confirm whether GFP‐NIT1 behaves similarly in our experiments, we used acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). ASA‐induced PCD in Arabidopsis cell cultures as shown by Garcia‐Heredia et al. (CITATION) and by us (Fig. S7). Immunofluorescence labelling of endogenous protein or confocal microscopy imaging of GFP‐NIT1 in vivo showed a patchy signal for NIT1 accumulated in the perinuclear area or even penetrated into the nuclei in ASA‐treated cells. Accumulation of GFP‐NIT1 in perinuclear area and in nuclei was observed also after aphidicolin induced replication stress (Fig. S8).  We further addressed whether the overexpression of GFP‐NIT1 alters the frequency of PCD measured by the DNA double‐strand breaks through the TUNEL assay. As shown in Fig. 9(e), the number of TUNEL‐positive cells was higher in 35S::GFP‐NIT1 lines compared to wild‐type. The difference between cells entering PCD became more prominent with time after subculture, being 7.4% and 20.9% for the 35S::GFP‐NIT1 overexpression cultures, compared to 2.3% and 3.7% for control cultures on the first and fifth day after subculture, respectively.  Altogether, our data suggest that in Arabidopsis overproduction of GFP‐NIT1 led to the reduction in cell proliferation and an increased level of PCD.  Because in animals NIT1 functions closely together with the FHIT tumour suppressor gene (Semba et al., CITATION), we searched for the Arabidopsis orthologue of FHIT and found a gene At5 g58240 with 50% identity within the protein coding region (Fig. S9). The Arabidopsis gene is annotated as nucleoside phosphoramidase and adenylylsulfatase (TAIR; http://www.arabidopsis.org). In agreement, the animal FHIT is also involved in purine metabolism. FHIT is co‐expressed with NIT1 in animal cells (Sun et al., CITATION). Therefore, we tested FHIT expression together with expression of NIT1 in silenced NIT‐RNAi seedlings. As shown in Fig. S10, FHIT expression was reduced in NIT‐RNAi seedlings while in cell culture with GFP‐NIT1 overexpression it was elevated compared to the control. These data indicate that as in animal cells, Arabidopsis NIT1 might function together with FHIT.  In order to analyse further the deregulated cell proliferation we also determined the expression of CDKA;1 and CDKB1;1 genes by Q‐RT‐PCR and found both to be upregulated in the NIT‐RNAi plants compared to wild‐type (Fig. S10c). 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension cultures of Columbia (Col) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were grown under continuous darkness at 25°C as described (Drykova et al., CITATION). Seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia – Columbia lines expressing PM GFP marker (Cutler et al., CITATION) – were grown on half‐strength MS agar plates as described (Binarova et al., CITATION).  The complete coding region of Arabidopsis NIT1 was cloned using GatewayR technology. Vectors for 35S CaMV promoter driven expression for N‐ and C‐terminal GFP fusions and for Multisite Gateway cloning of N‐terminal GFP fusion of NIT1 under its native promoter were purchased from Ghent University (Ghent, Belgium). (For details, see Supporting Information Methods S1.) The constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 which has been used for several independent transformations of Arabidopsis cultured cells and plants (Clough & Bent, CITATION; Davis et al., CITATION). Seedlings were selected on kanamycin (50 μg ml−1) medium. T1 transformants carrying GFP constructs had no discernible abnormalities, and we obtained T2 and T3 generations.  In order to produce a silencing RNAi construct, we cloned the 335 bp fragment of the NIT1 sequence of the central conserved part of the NIT1 molecule into the pHANNIBAL vector to produce an inverted repeat and then this NIT‐RNAi cassette was transferred into the binary vector pART27 (CSIRO Plant Industry, Clayton South, Australia). (For details and primers, see Methods S1.) With the NIT‐RNAi construct we performed 15 independent transformations with Columbia, GFP‐MAP4 and PM GFP Columbia plants. After 7 d of kanamycin selection resistant seedlings were transferred onto nonselective media. Phenotype was analysed in 6‐ to 19‐d‐old seedlings; transformants with the empty pART27 vector were used as the controls. The NIT‐RNAi plants with phenotypes could not reach maturity and produce seeds. Therefore, we characterized > 200 of the independent transformants with phenotype in the T1 generation.  Quantitative real‐time RT‐PCR (Q RT‐PCR) analyses were performed following MIQE recommendations (Bustin et al., CITATION) using methods described before (Petrovska et al., CITATION). (Primers are described in Methods S1.)  Protein extracts were prepared from cultured cells and seedlings as described before (Drykova et al., CITATION). (For details of differential centrifugation, see Methods S1.)  Custom polyclonal rabbit antibody (GenScript) for the NIT1 was raised against the C‐terminal sequence DIARAKLYFDSVGHYSRPDV (aa 299–318) of the NIT1 molecule, affinity purified on peptide and used in dilution of 1 : 100 to 1 : 1000.  Gel filtrations were carried out from re‐solubilized P100 on Superose 6 10/300 GL column (GE Healthcare Bio‐Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden) according to Doskocilova et al. (CITATION).  Co‐immunoprecipitation was performed using GFP‐Trap_A (ChromoTek, Planegg‐Martinsried, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Protein identifications by MALDI mass spectrometry were performed from excised silver‐stained protein bands as described (Halada et al., CITATION). Mass spectra were acquired on Ultraflex III instrument (Bruker Daltonics, Billerica, MA, USA) and searched against SwissProt 2011_04 database using the in‐house Mascot search engine.  The microtubule spin‐down experiments were performed as described previously (Binarova et al., CITATION). Three independent experiments were conducted; representative Western blots are shown.  For immunogold labelling and electron microscopy, 5‐μl samples were applied directly onto glow‐discharged activated Formvar/carbon coated nickel grids for 30 s and fixed in 4% PFA and 0.1% glutaraldehyde in PBS (pH 7.4) for 10 min. (For details of the immunogold labelling and negative staining, see Methods S1). The grids were examined using a Philips CM100 electron microscope at 80 kV and a magnification of ×46 000. Digital images were recorded using a MegaViewII (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) slow scan camera at a magnification of ×64 000 giving the digital resolution of c. 1 nm per pixel.  Immunofluorescence labelling was performed as described (Drykova et al., CITATION) using anti‐NIT1 (1 : 100), anti‐α‐tubulin (1 : 2000) and anti‐γ‐tubulin TU‐32 antibodies (1 : 6). Drugs were diluted in DMSO and used in working concentrations of: 5 μM for amiprophosmethyl (APM, A0185, Duchefa Biochemie, Haarlem, Netherlands), 10 μM for taxol (Paclitaxel, Sigma T7402), and 10 μg ml−1 for aphidicolin (Sigma, A0781) and applied as indicated.  Fluorescence microscopy and live cell imaging was performed using the Olympus IX‐81 inverted microscope with Olympus DSU – Disc Scanning Confocal Unit and Olympus IX‐81 FV‐1000 confocal microscope (Olympus); images were taken and analysed as described previously (Doskocilova et al., CITATION).  EdU staining of replicating cells was performed using Click‐iT EdU Alexa Fluor 488 HCS Assay (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) based on methods modified from Vanstraelen et al. (CITATION). Mitotic index was determined after Carnoy's fixation and 0.45% lacto‐propionic‐orcein staining. To determine the growth curve of the Arabidopsis cell suspension, 5 ml of cultured cells were sedimented and cells were weighed.  For TUNEL assay, cells were fixed by 3.7% paraformaldehyde, attached to poly‐l‐lysine slides, and permeabilised (0.1% Triton X‐100 in 0.1% sodium citrate for 10 min). The labelling reaction was carried out according to the manufacturer's protocol (Roche 12156792910) and the DNA was stained by DAPI. For PCD induction, 2 mM acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, Sigma A6810) treatment for 3–4 h was applied.  For chromocentra counting cells were fixed in an ethanol:acetic acid mixture (v/v 3 : 1) at room temperature for 1 h then macerated in 0.1 M HCl for 10 min at 37°C, rinsed in water, squeezed in 45% acetic acid at 45°C, and stained with 2 μg ml−1 DAPI for 10 min in the dark.  Flow cytometry sample preparation was performed using Partec CyStain UV precise P kit (Partec, Munster, Germany). Measurements were performed on a BD LSRII (BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) with a solid state laser (excitation 405 nm) and 450/50 band pass filter. Forward scatter and side scatter were taken at 488 nm. Data were evaluated in FlowJo (Tree Star, Ashland, OR, USA). (For full details of the materials and methods, see Methods S1.) Whenever possible, at least three independent experiments were performed. 
