!~ABS~! The thioredoxin (Trx) system is known to play a pivotal role in cellular redox regulation, but its target proteins in plant mitochondria remain largely uncharacterized. In this study, we systemically screened Trx target candidates in plant mitochondria. Mitochondrial protein extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis shoots, spinach leaves and potato tubers, and then subfractionated into soluble matrix and insoluble membrane fractions. Protein extracts were loaded onto an affinity column immobilizing Arabidopsis mitochondria-localized o-type Trx mutant protein, in which one of two internal cysteines at the active site was substituted by serine. Proteins forming mixed-disulfide intermediates with the mutated Trx were identified by proteomic approaches. This procedure allowed the determination of 101 Trx target candidate proteins involved in a broad spectrum of mitochondrial processes. Furthermore, biochemical assay revealed that one of the potential Trx target proteins, alternative oxidase, is actually redox regulated by Trx. This study provides insights into the regulatory mechanism of diverse functions in mitochondrial biology that are mediated through the Trx system.
!~RES~! In the dithiol–disulfide exchange reaction between Trx and its target protein, the N-terminal cysteine residue of the Trx active site (WCGPC) forms a mixed-disulfide intermediate with the target protein, which is subsequently broken by nucleophilic attack by the second cysteine residue. The Trx mutant in which the second cysteine is substituted by serine (WCGPS, Trx CS mutant) can interrupt this reduction process at the stage of the mixed-disulfide intermediate (CITATION). In Trx affinity chromatography, the Trx CS mutant is immobilized on the resin and used as a bait (CITATION, CITATION). For the purpose of this study, the Arabidopsis mitochondria-localized o-type Trx CS mutant (Trx-o1CS) was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as described in the Materials and Methods (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to screen Trx targets, a significant amount of mitochondrial protein extracts was required. Intact mitochondria were thus isolated from three sources (Arabidopsis shoots, spinach leaves and potato tubers), and subfractionated into soluble matrix and insoluble membrane fractions. The membrane proteins were solubilized using a mild detergent n-octyl-β-d-glucoside (see the Materials and Methods for details). The efficiencies of the fractionation and solubilization were validated by immunoblotting using marker antibodies (Fig. 1B for Arabidopsis; Supplementary Fig. S1 for spinach and potato). The integral membrane proteins, cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COXII) and alternative oxidase (AOX), were virtually exclusively detected in the solubilized membrane fraction. On the other hand, the photorespiratory enzyme glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC) H-protein was detected in the matrix fraction. The peripheral membrane protein ATP synthase β-subunit was detected in both matrix and membrane fractions. In Arabidopsis mitochondria, mass spectrometry analysis was also performed. Following electrophoresis, major protein spots or bands were randomly excised from the gel (numbered in Fig. 1C and D), then subjected to tryptic digestion and peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) analysis. The identified proteins are listed in Supplementary Table S1. In the solubilized membrane fraction, well-known mitochondrial membrane proteins, including ATP synthase subunits (bands 2, 3, 8 and 9), complex I subunits (bands 5 and 8) and ATP/ADP carrier protein (band 6), were identified. Two γ carbonic anhydrases, recently described as the complex I subunit (CITATION), were also found in this fraction (bands 6 and 8). On the other hand, several proteins involved in the TCA cycle (spots 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 32, 34 and 36) and photorespiratory metabolism (spots 10, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 38) were detected in the matrix fraction. As expected from immunoblotting results, both fractions contained the peripheral membrane protein ATP synthase β-subunit (band 3, spot 35). Taken together, the matrix and integral membrane proteins were separated into the corresponding fractions, while the peripheral membrane proteins were included in both fractions. Using the Trx-o1CS and mitochondrial protein extracts, we performed Trx affinity chromatography (see the Materials and Methods for details). Specific interaction between Trx target candidate proteins and the immobilized Trx mutant has already been confirmed using the Trx-h1(C43S) mutant-immobilized resin and thiol Sepharose 4B resin in our previous report (CITATION). Fig. 2 shows SDS–PAGE profiles of proteins eluted from each Trx affinity chromatography step using mitochondrial protein extracts in Arabidopsis. Most proteins did not interact with Trx-o1CS (compare lanes 1 and 2). After washing steps for removing non-specifically bound proteins (lanes 3–5), the proteins forming mixed-disulfide intermediate with the Trx-o1CS were eluted by dithiothreitol (DTT). DTT-eluted proteins (lane 6) were subjected to further analyses as Trx target candidates.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Proteins obtained as the Trx target candidate in Arabidopsis mitochondria were concentrated by precipitation using 10% (v/v) trichloroacetic acid and separated by two-dimensional isoelectric focusing (IEF)/SDS–PAGE (for matrix proteins, Fig. 3A) or one-dimensional SDS–PAGE (for membrane proteins, Fig. 3B). The protein spots and bands indicated in Fig. 3 were successfully identified by PMF analysis. These results are listed in Table 1. More detailed information (including the peptide mass which coincided with the value of the database, calculated mass weight and pI) is provided in Supplementary Tables S2 (matrix proteins) and Supplementary Data (membrane proteins).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In parallel with these PMF analyses, we examined the N-terminal Edman sequence of DTT-eluted proteins. The successfully determined proteins in Arabidopsis are described in Fig. 4 and, for details of matches, in Supplementary Table S4. Most of the proteins identified by N-terminal sequencing overlapped with those determined by PMF analysis, but four proteins were identified by the latter method alone (Table 2). N-terminal sequencing was also applied to identify Trx target candidates in spinach and potato (Supplementary Tables S5 and Supplementary Data, respectively). Most of the proteins identified were also found in Arabidopsis, but several unique proteins were characterized in the heterotrophic potato tuber (Table 3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In total, we determined 101 proteins as Trx target candidates in plant mitochondria (Tables 1–3). Among them, Arabidopsis proteins were validated for their subcellular localization by referring to the SUBcellular localization database for Arabidopsis protein (SUBA3; http://suba.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/). This database covers all experimental and computer prediction data for subcellular localizations of Arabidopsis proteins (CITATION). The majority of proteins identified here were experimentally assigned to the mitochondrial proteome, but some were not (referred to as possible contaminants in Table 1). Mitochondrial localization of such unassigned proteins, however, cannot be excluded: Trx affinity chromatography enables Trx-interacting proteins to be concentrated and therefore relatively enriched in the protein mixture, and it seems possible that even low abundance protein, which are inherently difficult to be detected, reach detectable levels. In addition, mitochondrial localization was supported by targeting prediction tools in most cases, even where experimental evidence is not available. As described in Tables 1–3, we grouped whole Trx target candidates into 14 biological processes and compared our results with those of two closely related studies, CITATION and CITATION. We briefly discuss the possible regulatory manner and involvement of Trx system in terms of the control of each process. We identified four subunits of ATP synthase as potential Trx targets (Table 1). While α-, β- and δ-subunits have already been shown to interact with Trx (CITATION) and glutaredoxin (Grx; CITATION), the γ-subunit is a new Trx-linked candidate in mitochondria. According to CITATION, α-, β- and γ-subunits form multimeric complexes linked by intermolecular disulfide bridges under oxidized conditions. In chloroplast ATP synthase, the Trx-mediated thiol modulation of the γ-subunit has been well established (CITATION). In this case, two adjacent cysteines (Cys199 and Cys205) are involved in the redox regulation, but these are not conserved in the mitochondrial counterpart. Several subunits forming electron transport complexes were also identified as target candidates of Trx (Tables 1–3). To our knowledge, mitochondrial membrane fractions have not previously been used for screening for Trx-interacting proteins. Thus, most of these subunits are new Trx target candidates. It has been shown in mammals that complex I elevates the activity in the presence of reductants (CITATION) and forms mixed disulfides with glutathione (GSH; CITATION), supporting the possibility of redox regulation of this complex. Furthermore, non-energy-conserving respiratory components, AOX and uncoupling protein (UCP), were isolated as Trx-linked proteins (Table 1). It is well known that, in the oxidized inactive form, AOX exists as a homodimer linked by an intermolecular disulfide bridge (CITATION). On the other hand, the regulatory mechanism of UCP is not fully understood. However, UCP activity has been shown to be stimulated under oxidative stress (CITATION). Our result suggests that Trx may mediate the modulation of UCP activity in response to a change in mitochondrial redox states. Twelve proteins involved in the TCA cycle and associated reactions were captured as potential Trx targets (Tables 1–3). Among them, citrate synthase (CS), 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (OGDC) E2-subunit and fumarate hydratase are new Trx-interacting candidates in higher plants. It is worth pointing out that CS is able to form both intra- and intermolecular disulfide bridges under oxidized conditions (CITATION). Also, in Chlamydomonas, the OGDC E2 subunit was shown to bind to Trx (CITATION). It is known that several TCA cycle enzymes are inactivated under oxidative stress conditions. For example, aconitase activity is inhibited by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2; CITATION). Furthermore, the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) inactivates PDC and OGDC through modification of the cysteine residue in lipoic acid moieties (CITATION, CITATION). GDC H-protein and branched chain α-keto acid dehydrogenase E2 subunit are also known to contain lipoic acid moieties (CITATION), both of which were found to interact with Trx (categorized into ‘photorespiration’ and ‘amino acid metabolism’, respectively, in Table 1). Interaction of Trx with these proteins suggests that the Trx system engages in the protection and regeneration from oxidative modifications. It has been shown that the TCA cycle flux in vivo is altered depending on environmental conditions, such as light (CITATION). It is worth investigating whether Trx-dependent redox regulation may be involved in such flux modulations. Photorespiratory glycine oxidation by the combined action of GDC and serine hydroxymethyl transferase (SHMT) is a major metabolic pathway in green leaf mitochondria (CITATION). As achieved by CITATION, all GDC subunits (H-, L-, T- and P-proteins) and SHMT were trapped by Trx affinity chromatography (Table 1; GDC L-protein is listed in ‘TCA cycle’ because it shares PDC activity). An early study reported that GDC activity is dependent on DTT (CITATION), supporting the possibility that Trx controls GDC activity as a physiological redox switch. H-protein, which contains the lipoic acid moiety, was experimentally demonstrated to be susceptible to oxidative stress (CITATION, CITATION). Furthermore, P-protein was shown to be glutathionylated at several cysteine residues, resulting in the decrease in GDC activity (CITATION). Ten proteins related to amino acid metabolism were trapped by Trx affinity chromatography (Table 1). Glutamine synthetase (GS) has been shown to be activated in the presence of DTT and to interact with chloroplast Trx (CITATION, CITATION). GS2 was historically believed to be targeted only to chloroplasts, but CITATION reported that this protein is, in fact, dual targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria. Mitochondrial GS2 is thought to be beneficial for recycling ammonium, the toxic metabolite generated during photorespiration (CITATION). O-Acetylserine (thiol)-lyase (OAS-TL) is a constituent of the cysteine synthase complex that produces cysteine from acetyl-CoA and serine. OAS-TL exists as a homodimer, which can be dissociated under reduced conditions (CITATION, CITATION). Other Trx-linked candidate proteins were 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase, arginase, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase and methylcrotonoyl-CoA carboxylase α-subunit, which are involved in valine, arginine, methionine and leucine metabolism, respectively. Taken together, these results suggest that the Trx system potentially plays a broad regulatory role in mitochondrial amino acid metabolism. A novel metabolic pathway, the γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) shunt, seems to play an important role in conferring a flexible network with other metabolic pathways especially under stress conditions (CITATION, CITATION). In this study, GABA transaminase (GABA-T) was newly identified as a Trx target candidate (Table 1). Biochemical characterization of GABA-T was recently achieved in part (CITATION), but the involvement of redox regulation remains to be addressed. NTRB and Trx-o, which were detected in the DTT eluate (Table 1), are key players in the redox regulation system in mitochondria (CITATION, CITATION). The elution of Trx-o by DTT implies that Trx-o derived from mitochondrial extracts might form a homodimer with the recombinant Trx-o1CS immobilized to the resin. In fact, it was demonstrated that Trx can form a homodimer or an even higher order oligomer in vitro and in vivo, which allows Trx to act as a molecular chaperone (CITATION, CITATION; see also below). A notable partner protein of Trx is the cystathionine β-synthase domain-containing protein X3 (CBSX3; Table 1). It was recently demonstrated that CBSX3 can activate Trx-o activity through physical interaction (CITATION). We identified nine proteins involved in the antioxidant defense system as potential Trx targets (Table 1). Peroxiredoxin IIF (PrxIIF) was already shown to interact with Trx-o, which ensures H2O2 detoxification with high efficiency (CITATION). Although glutathione peroxidase (GPX) was initially defined as GSH dependent, it can receive reducing equivalents from Trx (CITATION). The methionine sulfoxide reductase (Msr) was also shown to be supplied with reducing equivalents by Trx, which enables Msr to function in the regeneration of oxidized methionine (CITATION). The stromal/mitochondrial ascorbate peroxidase (s/mAPX) is a new mitochondrial Trx target candidate, although cytosolic APX has been demonstrated to interact with Trx (CITATION, CITATION). CITATION showed that Trx has a negative impact on APX activity. Taken together, it is highly plausible that the Trx system is broadly associated with antioxidant proteins in mitochondria. ADP/ATP carrier protein (ANT), voltage-dependent anion channel, carnitine/acylcarnitine carrier protein and phosphate transporter (PiT) were identified as Trx-linked carrier proteins in mitochondria (Tables 1, 2). Although cross-talk with Trx has not been shown to date, CITATION found that ANT and PiT can form inter- and intramolecular disulfide bridges, respectively, under oxidized conditions. They also proposed that, on the basis of the comparison with the mammalian counterpart, the N-terminal cysteine in ANT is likely to engage in the intermolecular disulfide formation. Iron–sulfur (Fe–S) cluster-containing proteins are involved in numerous biological processes, such as electron transfer. Five proteins involved in the biosynthesis of Fe–S clusters were identified as Trx target candidates (Table 1). Although the roles of these proteins in the mitochondrial Fe–S cluster biosynthesis have not been completely assigned, they are likely to be associated with several distinct steps, including cysteine disulfurase activity and a scaffolding function (CITATION). Several chaperones from distinct organisms have been characterized to be redox regulated (CITATION). In this study, nine chaperones and processing-related proteins were implied to be regulated by the Trx system (Tables 1, 3). Mitochondrial elongation factor Tu (EF-Tu) and two chaperones [heat shock protein 70 kDa (HSP70) and chaperone 60 kDa (CPN60)] were previously shown to interact with Trx or Grx (CITATION, CITATION). Among them, EF-Tu was shown to form an intramolecular disulfide bridge under oxidized conditions (CITATION). In cyanobacteria, EF-G activity is promoted depending on Trx, which supports an efficient PSII repair cycle (CITATION). It should be noted that, in addition to a potential regulatory role, Trx can directly operate as a chaperone by formation of an oligomeric structure (CITATION, CITATION). The pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein participates in the post-transcriptional RNA modification. To our knowledge, there is so far no critical information on the regulatory mode of PPR protein activity. We found here that two mitochondrial PPR proteins encoded by At1g51965 and At3g18970 genes are potentially redox regulated by the Trx system. PPR protein At1g51965 is required for cis-splicing of mitochondrial nad2 (encoding a complex I subunit) intron 3 (CITATION). As described above, we successfully identified a large number of Trx-linked proteins in mitochondria. However, these are still ‘potential’ Trx targets, and a more detailed confirmation procedure is required to regard these as ‘true’ targets (CITATION). We thus examined whether AOX is actually reduced by Trx. For this purpose, recombinant wild-type Trx-o1 and Trx-o2 were constructed (Fig. 5A; see the Materials and Methods), and they were confirmed to be functional by the insulin reduction assay (Fig. 5B). For AOX reduction, Trx was mixed with an Arabidopsis mitochondrial membrane fraction and various concentrations of DTT (0–5 mM). The redox state of AOX was then visualized by non-reducing SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting (Fig. 5C). In the absence of Trx, AOX was substantially reduced only when high concentrations of DTT (1–5 mM) were added. On the other hand, AOX could be reduced by much lower concentrations of DTT in the presence of Trx. These results indicate that AOX is a true Trx target.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Trx-dependent reduction of AOX was previously suggested in poplar (CITATION) and pea (CITATION). As the regulatory cysteine for dimer formation in AOX is highly conserved in plants, redox regulation of AOX through the Trx system appears to be a ubiquitous regulatory mechanism. We have shown that, in a shade species Alocasia odora, oxidized dimeric AOX is converted to the reduced monomeric form under high light conditions (CITATION). Therefore, a possible in vivo scenario is that high light elevates the mitochondrial reduction level via cross-talk with chloroplasts, then drives the mitochondrial Trx system, and finally switches AOX to the active mode. AOX activation is thought to be important for high light acclimation by functioning as a dissipating system of excess reducing equivalents in photosynthetic cells (CITATION). In the present study, we successfully identified a large number of Trx target candidates in plant mitochondria. These candidates are linked to multiple biological processes, implying that redox regulation through the Trx system has a broad impact on the mitochondrial activity. Furthermore, we showed that AOX is actually redox regulated via the Trx system. Using the list obtained in this study as a platform, the Trx-dependent regulatory mechanisms of other target candidates should be investigated in detail. In addition to in vitro biochemical analyses, in vivo studies are necessary to gain physiological insights into how the mitochondrial Trx system operates and regulates its target proteins in response to environmental stimuli.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0) was grown in soil in a controlled growth chamber (40–60 µmol photons m−2 s−1, 20°C, 16 h day/8 h night) for 4–5 weeks. Plants were supplemented with Hyponex nutrient solution at a dilution of 1 : 1,000 every 2 d. For isolation of intact mitochondria, Arabidopsis shoots were harvested during the daytime. Spinach (Spinacia oleracea) leaves and potato (Solanum tuberosum) tubers were purchased from a local supermarket, and these harvested materials were also used for isolation of intact mitochondria. Isolation of intact mitochondria was performed according to CITATION with slight modifications. Full methods are described in the Supplementary data. The frozen mitochondrial solution was thawed and a protease inhibitor mixture for plant cell extracts (Sigma) was added to a final concentration of 1% (v/v). The mitochondrial sample was then sonicated in order to completely disrupt the membrane structure, and centrifuged at 100,000×g until the membrane fraction was fully precipitated. The supernatant was collected as the soluble matrix fraction. Just prior to use, the precipitated membrane proteins were mildly solubilized in 10 mM TES-KOH (pH 7.5), 1 mM EDTA, 1% (v/v) protease inhibitor mixture for plant cell extracts (Sigma) and 1% (w/v) n-octyl-β-d-glucoside for 60 min. The solubilized membrane proteins were then separated from the insoluble fractions by centrifugation at 140,000×g for 40 min. All procedures for subfractionation of intact mitochondria and solubilization of membrane proteins were conducted at 4°C. Immunoblotting analysis was performed as previously described (CITATION). Immunodetection of GDC H-protein was performed using a polyclonal antibody (Agrisera) at a dilution of 1 : 5,000. The dilution ratio of other antibodies used in this study was as previously described (CITATION). The genes for Trx-o1 (At2g35010) and Trx-o2 (At1g31020) were obtained by PCR amplification from an Arabidopsis cDNA library, using KOD plus DNA polymerase (Toyobo) and the following oligonucleotides: for Trx-o1, 5′-aactgcagcatatggctggaggtgaaaatggtgt-3′ (NdeI) and 5′-gcgaattcacttgtagagctgttcca-3′ (EcoRI); and for Trx-o2, 5′-aactgcagcatatggcagaaggagatcgatccag-3′ (NdeI) and 5′-gcgaattcacttgtagagttgttcca-3′ (EcoRI). The restriction sites for the enzyme shown in parentheses are underlined. The amplified DNA fragments were cloned into the NdeI and EcoRI sites of the pET23c expression vector (Novagen), and the sequences were confirmed by DNA sequencing (PRISM 3100; Applied Biosystems). The recombinant Trx-o1 and Trx-o2 proteins were individually expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells and purified as described in the Supplementary data. Trx-o1CS (117WCGPC121 to 117WCGPS121) was prepared by the mega-primer method (CITATION) using KOD plus DNA polymerase (Toyobo) and suitable oligonucleotide primers. Expression and purification of the mutant protein were performed as above. Trx-o1CS was immobilized on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After the immobilization, the unreacted side chains on the resin were blocked by incubation with 0.1 M Tris–HCl (pH 8.0) for 12 h at 4°C. The mitochondrial matrix proteins or solubilized membrane proteins were incubated with Trx-o1CS-immobilized resin for 60 min at room temperature. The proteins which did not react with Trx-o1CS were collected as flowthrough. The resin was then washed with 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5) containing 200 mM NaCl. The resin was further washed with 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5) containing 200 mM NaCl and 0.1% (w/v) SDS. Each washing step was repeated until the absorbance of the washed solution at 280 nm approached zero, indicating that any non-specifically bound proteins had been fully removed. The resin was finally suspended in 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5) containing 200 mM NaCl, 0.1% (w/v) SDS and 20 mM DTT for 60 min. Eluted proteins were identified using proteomic approaches as Trx target candidates. Proteins were precipitated with 10% (v/v) trichloroacetic acid, washed with ice-cold acetone and suspended in sample buffer containing 8 M urea, 50 mM DTT, 2% (w/v) CHAPS, 0.2% (v/v) carrier ampholytes and 0.001% (w/v) bromophenol blue. Aliquots of 125 µl were used to re-swell dried 70 mm (pH 3–10) non-linear immobilized pH gradient strips (Bio-Rad) overnight. IEF was performed using a Protean IEF Cell complete system (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. IEF was performed until the total voltage reached 30 kV (approximately 19 h) at 20°C. After IEF, immobilized pH gradient strips were incubated in equilibration buffer 1 containing 6 M urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 375 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.8), 20% (v/v) glycerol and 130 mM DTT for 20 min at room temperature. The strips were then transferred to equilibration buffer 2 containing 6 M urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 375 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.8), 20% (v/v) glycerol and 2% (w/v) iodoacetamide, and incubated for 10 min at room temperature. The equilibrated strips were then mounted onto 15% (w/v) acrylamide- and 0.1% (w/v) SDS-containing polyacrylamide gels. Gel electrophoresis was performed at 20 mA constant current. Proteins were visualized by Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250. In Arabidopsis, protein identification was performed by PMF analysis. Stained protein spots or bands were excised from the gel and fully destained with 50 mM NH4HCO3 and 50% (v/v) acetonitrile. The excised gel was then dried and incubated with 50 mM NH4HCO3 containing 20 ng µl−1 trypsin at 37°C overnight. Tryptic peptides were extracted from the gel by 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid with 50% (v/v) and 75% (v/v) acetonitrile continuously. Whole extracts were concentrated using a centrifuge concentrator and desalted using Solid Phase Extraction C-TIP (Nikkyo Technos). The peptide sample was spotted directly onto the matrix (α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid) and air-dried on a MALDI (matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization) plate (AnchorChip Thin Layer Affinity Preparation, Bruker Daltonics). MALDI mass spectra were obtained using a MALDI-TOF MS spectrometer, Ultraflex TOF/TOF (Bruker Daltonics). Parameters used for the mass spectrometry are described in the Supplementary data. Results were queried to search the matched protein using the Mascot search engine (http://www.matrixscience.com/). Parameters used for database searches are described in the Supplementary data. Each protein separated by electrophoresis was transferred onto a polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membrane. The N-terminal sequence was determined by Edman degradation with a peptide sequencer model PPSQ21 (Shimadzu). Results were queried to search the matched protein using BLASTP (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). To check the disulfide reduction activity of the recombinant Trx, we measured the change in turbidity of an insulin solution due to the precipitation of the free insulin B chain by reduction (CITATION). The assay mixture contained 25 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.1), 1 mM EDTA and 155 µM bovine insulin. The reaction was initiated by adding 500 µM DTT to the assay mixture, and the change in turbidity was monitored at 650 nm at 25°C. The precipitated mitochondrial membrane fraction was re-suspended in medium containing 10 mM TES-KOH (pH 7.5) and 1 mM EDTA using a homogenizer. The mitochondrial membrane fraction was then incubated with or without Trx-o (final concentration 5 µM) in various concentrations of DTT (0–5,000 µM) for 60 min at 25°C. Following completion of the reaction, proteins were precipitated with 10% (v/v) trichloroacetic acid, washed with ice-cold acetone and finally dissolved in SDS–PAGE sample buffer [62.5 mM Tris–HCl (pH 6.8), 2% (w/v) SDS, 7.5% (v/v) glycerol and 0.01% (w/v) bromphenol blue]. AOX in reduced and oxidized forms were separated by non-reducing SDS–PAGE and detected by immunoblotting.
