!~ABS~! ► ctn-1 Arabidopsis mutants arrest as very early embryos. ► CACTIN-RFP rescues ctn-1 and localizes to the nucleus. ► CACTIN-RFP colocalizes with spliceosome components. ► CACTIN binds to, and colocalizes with, AT5G63440: a putative spliceosome component. ► CACTIN may play a role in the spliceosome.
!~RES~! To characterize the function of plant CACTIN, we identified a T-DNA insertion mutant allele (ctn-1) and isolated ctn-1(+/−) plants. This T-DNA insertion is located after the 6th exon of CACTIN (CITATION). The insertion is limited to this position, and flanking sequences along the T-DNA junctions are given in CITATION. Self-crossing of ctn-1(+/−) plants resulted in only ctn-1(+/−) and CTN wild-type plants at approximately a 2:1 ratio. We found 89 heterozygote plants and 49 wild-type plants, which is not statistically different from a 2:1 ratio (X 2 =0.29, df=1, P =0.59). The mutant allele of ctn-1 can be transmitted through the pollen or the ovule, as demonstrated by reciprocal crosses confirmed through genotyping. Although chromosomal abnormalities are common in Arabidopsis T-DNA lines CITATION, the ctn-1 allele does not show a common hallmark of this phenomenon because the heterozygous plants have viable pollen as determined by Alexander staining (CITATION). Therefore, this is a suitable line to use for CACTIN analysis. The siliques of the ctn-1(+/−) plants contained 74.8% regular large seeds and 25.2% underdeveloped seeds, whereas wild-type siliques contained 95.6% large seeds and 4.4% underdeveloped seeds (CITATION ). The 25.2% underdeveloped seeds observed in the siliques of the ctn-1(+/−) plants is not significantly different from 25%, which is the expected ratio of homozygous progeny from a segregating population (X 2 =0.02, df=1, p =0.89). We observed this proportion of underdeveloped seeds in the siliques of ctn-1(+/−) heterozygous plants through multiple generations after back crossing. The ctn-1(+/−) heterozygous plants show an otherwise normal phenotype. These results suggest that the ctn-1 mutation is embryonic lethal. Microscopy of the seeds inside the siliques of ctn-1(+/−) plants showed approximately 3/4 regular embryos and approximately 1/4 embryos arresting in the one- to three-cell stage (CITATION A and B). These 3.5-day-old arrested embryos looked like 2-day-old wild-type embryos, suggesting that the small embryos had failed to progress (CITATIONC). These findings suggest that CACTIN is required for early embryo development. We observed a similar stage of arrest in the underdeveloped seeds in all of the ctn-1(+/−) siliques we examined (three siliques from each of 11 plants). To verify that mutations in CTN resulted in embryonic lethality, we generated a CACTIN-RFP construct and introduced it into heterozygous ctn-1(+/−) plants under the control of the 35S promoter. Transformed progeny were genotyped and ctn-1(−/−) plants were identified, signifying that CACTIN-RFP rescues the ctn-1 lethality. Backcrossing these plants and allowing the F1 progeny to self-cross allowed us to regenerate homozygous ctn-1 mutants, all of which contained the CACTIN-RFP transgene, further supporting that CACTIN-RFP rescues the lethal ctn-1 mutant. The CACTIN-RFP transgene also rescues the underdeveloped seed phenotype (CITATION). Homozygous ctn-1 plants with the CACTIN-RFP transgene showed no obvious phenotypic differences from wild-type plants. Epifluorescence microscopy shows nuclear localization of RFP-CACTIN (CITATION A). Many cells show a diffuse nuclear localization, especially in younger seedlings (CITATION A). In the mature root, however, many cells show discrete speckles within the nucleus (CITATIONB). We observed that different cell types have different sizes and patterns of speckles and that this changes with the age of the seedling. This phenomenon has been observed for splicing-related proteins CITATION. Fluorescent protein fusions with human CACTIN also show a nuclear speckle localization in cell culture CITATION, suggesting that the localization of CACTIN is conserved. Like CACTIN, many spliceosome proteins appear as speckles in the nucleus CITATION. SR45 is a component of the spliceosome that is thought to function in 5′ and 3′ site selection CITATION. GFP-SR45 colocalizes with CACTIN-RFP. They are both diffusely nuclear in the cells near the root tip and localize to the same discrete speckles in many cells elsewhere in the root (CITATIONA and B). Also, we noticed that GFP-SR45 is more excluded than CACTIN-RFP from a single spot within the nucleus that is likely the nucleolus, although the implications of this are unclear (CITATIONA). Quantification of the colocalization between CACTIN-RFP and GFP-SR45 within root nuclei resulted in an average Pearson coefficient of correlation 0.96, suggesting high colocalization (CITATION). Arabidopsis RSP31 is another SR protein that forms nuclear speckles and is known to be involved with the spliceosome CITATION. The nuclear speckle pattern of over-expressed fluorescent protein fusions to RSP31 has been confirmed as similar to that obtained by immunolocalization of endogenous RSP31, making it an appropriate splicing speckle marker CITATION. GFP-RSP31 and CACTIN-RFP colocalize with an average Pearson coefficient of correlation of 0.97, again indicating high colocalization (CITATIONC and CITATION). As a negative control for nuclear speckle colocalization, we crossed plants carrying CACTIN-RFP with those carrying 35S::PHYTOCHROME B-YFP. phyB forms nuclear speckles when plants are moved from the dark to the light, but this protein has not been implicated in splicing CITATION. We saw no correlation between the speckle patterns of CACTIN and phyB (CITATIOND), and the average Pearson coefficient of correlation was 0.58, suggesting low colocalization (CITATION). The correlation coefficient of colocalization of CACTIN-RFP with GFP-SR45 and GFP-RSP31 is statistically different from that of colocalization with phyB-YFP (Student’s T-test, P <10−4). This supports the hypothesis that CACTIN specifically colocalizes with splicing-related protein speckles, and not with any sub-nuclear compartments. Using a yeast-two-hybrid screen, we found that Arabidopsis CACTIN interacts with the conserved protein, AT5G63440 (CITATION ). In Drosophila, the orthologs of AT5G63440 and CACTIN also bind each other in high-throughput yeast-two-hybrid studies CITATION. Because the same orthologous gene came up in CACTIN-binding screens conducted in such distantly related organisms, we believe AT5G63440 is a true interacting partner with CACTIN. Like CACTIN, AT5G63440 is found in plants and animals and is missing from S. cerevisiae. However, unlike CACTIN, AT5G63440 may have been lost in a larger group within the fungi kingdom, not just subphylum Saccharomycotina. AT5G63440 has no recognizable informative functional domains, and its function is unknown. AT5G63440 has a shorter distant paralog, AT1G49170, which is present in eukaryotes, and there is also a relative in bacteria (Escherichia coli: YGGU). AT5G63440, AT1G49170, and YGGU share a Domain of Unknown Function (DUF) #167. Two prokaryote DUF167 proteins have been structurally analyzed by NMR, but their functions have not been explored CITATION. In phylogenetic trees, the longer DUF167 proteins (AT5G63440 orthologs) of eukaryotes all cluster together separately from the shorter DUF167 proteins (AT1G49170 orthologs), suggesting that they diverged in the eukaryotic common ancestor and have been maintained separately ever since then (CITATION). We examined two Arabidopsis AT5G63440 mutants (at5g63440-1 and at5g63440-2) and found no abnormal phenotypes (CITATION and CITATION). We also made double mutants between at5g63440-1 and a mutant in its distant paralog, at1g49170-1, which also have a normal phenotype under standard growth conditions (CITATION). The mutational inserts of at5g63440-1 and at1g49170-1 disrupt the expression of their respective full length mRNAs (CITATION). Although the function of AT5G63440 orthologs is unknown, it associates with the spliceosome in Drosophila and human cells CITATION. We made GFP-AT5G63440 constructs, transformed them into Arabidopsis, and crossed these plants with those carrying CACTIN-RFP. Like CACTIN, AT5G63440 has a diffuse nuclear localization in many cells but also shows a nuclear speckle pattern in some cells. GFP-AT5G63440 colocalizes with CACTIN-RFP, and we used cells showing a speckle pattern to measure an average Pearson coefficient of correlation of 0.97, which is significantly different from the negative control (CITATION and CITATION).
!~MM~! Mutant lines were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH) (CITATION). Seedlings were started on agar plates as described in CITATION. Plants were moved to soil after approximately 10days of growth on petri plates. Genotyping was performed using standard PCR methods and the primers in CITATION. Alexander staining was used to identify dead pollen as described CITATION. RNA was isolated from seedlings using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, 74904, Hilden, Germany). DNA was eliminated using RQ1 DNase (Promega M6101, Madison WI). cDNA was made from total RNA using iScript (170-8891,Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Primers for RT-PCR are listed in CITATION. Seeds were sown in soil and grown to flowering stage at which time we harvested elongated green siliques and preserved them in 50% acetic acid and 50% ethanol. Siliques were dissected on a stereo microscope. The seeds within each silique were counted and tallied as either full size, or underdeveloped. Siliques at 3–4days post-anthesis were collected and fixed in Histochoice (Amresco H112, Solon, OH) on ice for 15min, then dissected on a slide to remove the embryos from the valves. A drop of Hoyers Solution (0.21g/ml gum arabic, 14% glycerine, 2.9g/ml chloral hydrate) was applied, and a cover slip was added. The slide was sealed with nail polish and allowed to sit at room temperature overnight. We then photographed the slides on a phase contrast Leica DM LB2 microscope using a 100 times objective. The contrast of embryo images was increased using Adobe Photoshop. Transgenic constructs were made using standard Gateway-based methods which are detailed in the CITATION section. Plants were transformed with constructs using agrobacterium, as detailed in CITATION. Florescence microscopy photographs were taken using an epifluorescent microscope equipped with a mercury bulb and a 100 times objective. Additional details, including information on phyB-YFP can be found in CITATION. Colocalization was quantified using the Pearson coefficient of correlation (also known as Pearson’s R value) for colocalization, which measures the linear dependence between the intensity of a pixel on one color channel compared to another channel CITATION. Additional information is given in CITATION. AT5G63440 was identified through a yeast-two-hybrid screen using the coding domains of CACTIN as bait and an Arabidopsis seedling-derived cDNA library as prey. Additional details can be found in CITATION. For pairwise confirmation of the CACTIN and AT5G63440 interaction, we cloned the coding domains of AT5G63440 into pDEST22 and cotransformed it and pDEST32–CACTIN into Mav203 yeast as well as the following controls: ATG7 (TAIR: AT5G45900) and ATG12a (TAIR: AT1G54210), which are known interaction partners from the autophagy pathway CITATION and were given to us in pDEST32 and pDEST22 by the Richard Vierstra laboratory. We used these plasmids together as a positive control and separately with CACTIN and AT5G63440 as negative controls. Additional information is found in CITATION.
