!~ABS~! Ammonium acquisition by plant roots is mediated by AMMONIUM TRANSPORTERs (AMTs), ubiquitous membrane proteins with essential roles in nitrogen nutrition in all organisms. In microbial and plant cells, ammonium transport activity is controlled by ammonium-triggered feedback inhibition to prevent cellular ammonium toxicity. Data from heterologous expression in yeast indicate that oligomerization of plant AMTs is critical for allosteric regulation of transport activity, in which the conserved cytosolic C terminus functions as a trans-activator. Employing the coexpressed transporters AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 from Arabidopsis thaliana as a model, we show here that these two isoforms form functional homo- and heterotrimers in yeast and plant roots and that AMT1;3 carrying a phosphomimic residue in its C terminus regulates both homo- and heterotrimers in a dominant-negative fashion in vivo. 15NH4+ influx studies further indicate that allosteric inhibition represses ammonium transport activity in roots of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing a phosphomimic mutant together with functional AMT1;3 or AMT1;1. Our study demonstrates in planta a regulatory role in transport activity of heterooligomerization of transporter isoforms, which may enhance their versatility for signal exchange in response to environmental triggers.
!~RES~! Previous studies showed that a phosphorylation mimic of a highly conserved Thr residue in the cytosolic C terminus of Arabidopsis AMT1;1 (T460D) or AMT1;2 (T472D) abolishes transport activity when heterologously expressed in yeast or oocytes (CITATION; CITATION). To verify whether the corresponding position in the C terminus of AMT1;3 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) possesses a similar function in the allosteric regulation of transport activity, we expressed two AMT1;3 variants, T464A (TA) and T464D (TD), in the yeast strain DL1 (Δmep1-3 Δgap1), which is defective in high-affinity ammonium uptake (CITATION; CITATION). Wild-type AMT1;3 and AMT1;3TA were able to complement the growth of the yeast mutant on 2 mM ammonium as a sole N source (Figure 1A). By contrast, the AMT1;3TD mutant did not confer ammonium uptake in yeast, indicating that the introduction of a negatively charged amino acid residue at Thr-464 in AMT1;3 abolished transport activity, similar to a phosphorylation mimic of the corresponding Thr residues in AMT1;1 or AMT1;2 (CITATION; CITATION). The stable integration of wild-type AMT1;3 into the yeast genome (Δgap1::AMT1;3) restored the growth defect of the yeast mutant DL1 to a slightly weaker extent compared with expression from the plasmid (Figure 1A), which may have been caused by different gene expression levels. However, episomal coexpression of AMT1;3TD led to inhibition of ammonium transport activity by wild-type AMT1;3, suggesting that AMT1;3TD provoked a trans-dominant negative effect on the activity of the wild-type AMT1;3 protein. [[FIGURE]] The integration of either wild-type AMT1;1 or wild-type AMT1;3 into the yeast genome restored the growth defect of the yeast mutant DL1 on low ammonium supply. In both cases, coexpression of the nonfunctional AMT1;3TD protein conferred loss of ammonium transport activity (Figures 1A and 1B). Moreover, expression of a nonfunctional AMT1;1TD also inhibited growth when coexpressed with the wild-type AMT1;1 (CITATION) or AMT1;3 protein (Figure 1B). Since functional interaction between the AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 proteins occurred in a heterologous expression system, the involvement of a third, regulatory Arabidopsis protein in this interaction was not further considered. In an attempt to quantify the relative strength of protein interactions, we performed a mating-based split-ubiquitin assay (CITATION). AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 were fused C-terminally either to Nub (N-terminal ubiquitin domain carrying a Gly mutation) or to Cub (N-terminal ubiquitin domain regulated by the Met-repressible MET25 promoter and fused to the artificial protease A-LexA-VP16 (PLV) transcription factor). Growth of yeast colonies resulted in the reconstitution of ubiquitin and release of a transcription factor complementing the His auxotrophy. Growth assays showed that AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 can interact with themselves, while reciprocal assays showed that they also interacted with each other (Figure 2). According to colony sizes, interactions with AMT1;3-Cub appeared to be stronger. However, AMT1;3-Cub also showed a higher level of autoactivation, thus leading to a higher background. Colony growth resulting from the interaction between AMT1;1-Cub and AMT1;1- or AMT1;3-fused Nub was comparable, supporting the assumption that complexes were formed with similar efficacy. Likewise, AMT1;3-mediated interaction assays did not appear to reveal a particular preference for either AMT1 isoform. [[FIGURE]] Based on the observations that endogenous AMT proteins form high molecular weight complexes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we anticipated that coexpression of GFP-tagged AMTs should allow determination of the oligomerization status of Arabidopsis AMTs in protein gel blot analyses. In microsomal membrane proteins from N-deficient roots separated on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel, a high molecular mass form of AMT1;3 was detected at >120 kD when protein samples were preincubated under nonreducing conditions (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Under reducing conditions, AMT1;3 proteins were detected at a molecular mass of ∼40 kD, corresponding to the expected size of their monomers. A similar observation was previously made for AMT1;1 (CITATION), suggesting the presence of a protein complex of AMT1;3 or AMT1;1 in Arabidopsis roots that is sensitive to the reduction of disulfide bonds, as recently shown for AMTs in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum; CITATION). After preincubation under nonreducing conditions and separation in a 6% SDS-PAGE gel, the anti-AMT1;1 antibody detected the high molecular mass AMT complex as a major band at <100 kD in Columbia-0 roots due to a differential migration of the hydrophobic AMT complex and the hydrophilic marker (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). In transgenic lines expressing GFP-tagged AMT1;1, the anti-AMT1;1 antibody detected three additional bands (Figure 3A). These represented a stepwise increase in molecular weight with each further band corresponding to a difference in molecular weight of 20 to 30 kD. Using an anti-GFP antibody, these three additional bands were identified to carry a GFP tag (Figure 3B). We conclude that AMT1;1 assembled as a trimer of AMT1;1 and AMT1;1-GFP moieties, representing a population of the following protein complexes: [AMT1;1]3, [AMT1;1]2[AMT1;1-GFP], [AMT1;1][AMT1;1-GFP]2, and [AMT1;1-GFP]3. [[FIGURE]] Since AMT1;1 is coexpressed with AMT1;3 in outer root cells (CITATION), we used the anti-AMT1;3 antibody and assayed for coexpressed AMT1;3 moieties in the same protein complexes. The major band detected under nonreducing conditions in Columbia-0 plants represented the oligomeric AMT1;3 protein (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Above that band, there was a faint protein smear that did not allow differentiation of bands of a concrete size, perhaps representing unspecific binding of the antibody or posttranslational protein modifications. In the two protein samples of the GFP-tagged lines, two additional weaker protein bands appeared with a size matching the two lower bands of the GFP-tagged AMT1;1 trimers (Figure 3C). The lower of these two weak bands most likely represented [AMT1;3][AMT1;1/1;3][AMT1;1-GFP] and the upper [AMT1;3][AMT1;1-GFP]2. In addition, we verified heterotrimer formation in a reciprocal approach by expression of AMT1;3:GFP under control of the endogenous AMT1;3 promoter in wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). In these lines, two concrete additional bands appeared above the wild-type homotrimer, most likely representing the presence of one or two GFP-tagged AMT1;3 subunits in the protein complex. The [AMT1;3-GFP]3 complex remained undetected because the employed anti-AMT1;3 antibody could not bind to the AMT1;3 peptide due to a disturbance of the C-terminal epitope by the GFP fusion (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). Probing this blot with anti-AMT1;1 revealed only one additional band above the trimer, most likely representing a [AMT1;1][AMT1;3][AMT1;3-GFP] complex. In particular, in the wild-type background, the detection of these higher molecular weight complexes was accompanied by a protein smear, suggesting that further protein modifications may have taken place. Considering the fainter appearance of this smear in transgenic lines expressing AMT1-GFP fusion proteins, these modifications may have been impaired by C-terminal GFP tags. Taken together, these results indicated that both AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 assemble as homotrimers in roots and additionally form heterotrimers in a 2:1 and 1:2 ratio. Supposing that ammonium transport through AMT protein complexes relies on the trans-activation of pore regions by the C terminus of neighboring subunits and phosphorylation of the C terminus inhibits this interaction (Figure 1; CITATION), this type of allosteric regulation should not only work in heterologous expression systems but also be retained in planta. To verify the mechanistic basis of this regulatory model, we first expressed T464A- and T464D-modified AMT1;3 variants under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter in the quadruple insertion line for AMTs, qko (CITATION). This genetic background is characterized by a reduction in the high-affinity ammonium uptake capacity by >90% due to disruption of the AMT1;1, AMT1;2, AMT1;3, and AMT2;1 genes and allows examination of the roles of individual transporters, transporter mutants, and coexpressed functional or defective transporters in planta. Methylammonium (MeA) toxicity was used as a tool to monitor the effect of mutations on long-term ammonium uptake activity. While qko is rather insensitive to MeA (CITATION), independent transformants of qko ectopically expressing wild-type AMT1;3 (qko-35S:AMT1;3) or AMT1;3TA (qko-35S:AMT1;3TA) showed severely inhibited root growth and shoot biomass production (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Growth of qko lines expressing AMT1;3TD (qko-35S:AMT1;3TD) was unaffected by MeA, indicating that the AMT1;3TD transporter variant was nonfunctional in planta. To determine the high-affinity ammonium transport capacity in roots, short-term influx studies were conducted in N-deficient plants at an external concentration of 200 µM 15N-labeled ammonium (Figure 4A). Relative to qko plants, expression of wild-type AMT1;3 conferred an ammonium uptake capacity of 100 to 120 µmol g−1 h−1, while the capacity of the TA-substituted variant was ∼90 µmol g−1 h−1. By contrast, the ammonium uptake capacity of transgenic lines expressing AMT1;3TD was not significantly different from that of qko, supporting inactivity of the AMT1;3TD protein in roots as indicated by its MeA insensitivity (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). A subsequent protein gel blot analysis using microsomal membrane fractions of the same plants showed that the TA- or TD-substituted AMT1;3 variant was expressed at a similar level as the wild type in the monomeric and oligomeric form (Figure 4B). Thus, substitution of Thr-464 by a negatively charged phosphomimicking Asp residue in the C terminus of AMT1;3 abolished transport activity without altering protein levels, protein stability, or protein oligomerization. [[FIGURE]] As AMT1;3 wild-type and phosphomimicking proteins functionally interacted when expressed in yeast (Figure 1), we investigated whether the C-terminal phosphomimic could trans-inhibit wild-type AMT1;3 in planta. Thus, AMT1;3TD was expressed in qko+13, in which gene expression of AMT1;3 has been reconstituted genetically in the qko background and high-affinity ammonium uptake is mediated predominantly by AMT1;3 (CITATION). As expected, qko+13 was more sensitive to MeA than was qko (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), and the high-affinity uptake capacity of the native AMT1;3 protein (∼110 µmol g−1 h−1; Figure 5A) corresponded to the contribution of the ectopically expressed AMT1;3 protein in the qko background (Figure 4A). Expression of AMT1;3TD in the qko+13 background increased MeA tolerance (see Supplemental Figure 5 online) and decreased the ammonium uptake capacity by ∼90 µmol g−1 h−1 (Figure 5A). Interestingly, this decrease in ammonium uptake did not completely reach the level of qko plants but remained ∼20 µmol g−1 h−1 higher than in qko, indicating that the trans-inhibitory effect of AMT1;3TD did not fully repress the endogenous AMT1;3 protein activity. Protein gel blot analysis indicated that expression levels of the AMT1;3TD protein in both examined lines were stable and much higher than that of the endogenous AMT1;3 protein (Figure 5B). Therefore, the decrease in ammonium influx by 35S-driven expression of AMT1;3TD was not caused by cosuppression or RNA silencing of endogenous AMT1;3. [[FIGURE]] Based on the observations that AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 form heteromeric complexes in roots (Figure 3) and functionally interact in yeast cells (Figures 1 and 2), we hypothesized that a phosphomimic version of AMT1;3 should repress AMT1;1-dependent ammonium transport in roots. We therefore generated transgenic lines expressing AMT1;3TD in the qko background with reconstituted expression of AMT1;1 (qko+11) (CITATION). Relative to qko, reconstituted expression of AMT1;1 conferred an ammonium transport capacity of ∼150 µmol g−1 h−1 (Figure 6A), which is 40 µmol g−1 h−1 larger than that of qko+13 (Figure 5A). To test for any artifacts possibly arising from ectopic expression from the constitutive CaMV35S promoter, the native promoter of AMT1;3 also was used to drive expression of AMT1;3TD, but ultimately both constructs yielded similar results (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Compared with qko+11, the resulting three independent transformants showed a lower MeA sensitivity (see Supplemental Figure 6 online) and a consistent decrease in ammonium influx by ∼85 µmol g−1 h−1 (Figure 6A). Again, none of the transgenic lines showed signs of altered stability or synthesis of endogenous AMT1;1 protein (Figure 6B). These observations suggest that there is inhibition of AMT1;1-dependent ammonium transport activity resulting from protein–protein interactions between AMT1;3TD and the endogenous AMT1;1 protein. [[FIGURE]] To verify the quantitative extent of the trans-dominant inhibition of AMT1;1-mediated ammonium transport by AMT1;3TD, we expressed AMT1;3TD in the amt1;3-1 single insertion line (amt1;3-1-35S:AMT1;3TD), in which the endogenous AMT1;3 protein is absent (CITATION). Relative to the reference line amt1;3-1, ectopic expression of AMT1;3TD conferred increased growth on MeA (see Supplemental Figure 7 online) and reduced the ammonium transport capacity also by ∼85 µmol g−1 h−1 (Figure 7A). Thus, AMT1;3TD-mediated inhibition of AMT1;1 was independent of the genetic background and of the presence of other AMTs. Despite an almost identical ammonium uptake capacity in the two lines D2c and D9c (Figure 7A), protein gel blots revealed a much higher AMT1;3TD protein expression level in D9c (Figure 7B), suggesting that the lower amount of AMT1;3TD protein in D2c was sufficient to confer a maximum repression of ammonium influx in this background. In both lines, protein levels of AMT1;1 were stable and not affected by the presence of AMT1;3TD, indicating that AMT1;3TD did not cause posttranscriptional silencing or a loss of protein stability of endogenous AMT1;1. [[FIGURE]] Since AMT1;3TD-mediated trans-inhibition appeared specific for AMT1;1 and AMT1;3, we anticipated both transport capacities to be repressed when expressing CaMV35S-AMT1;3TD in Wassilewskija (WS-35S:AMT1;3TD), which is the wild-type accession to amt1;3-1. In both transgenic lines, total protein levels of AMT1;3 were severalfold higher than in the wild type, confirming stability of the ectopically expressed AMT1;3TD variant (Figure 8B). Upon expression of AMT1;3TD, MeA sensitivity considerably decreased (see Supplemental Figure 8 online) and high-affinity ammonium influx was ∼120 µmol g−1 h−1 lower (Figure 8A). This loss of transport capacity was clearly higher than that conferred by AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 alone in qko, even though it remained below the sum of both transport capacities (175 µmol g−1 h−1). This was most likely due to the larger amount of AMT target proteins interacting with AMT1;3TD in Wassilewskija. Irrespective of this dose-dependent effect, this experiment showed that AMT1;3TD was able to trans-inactivate both AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 at the same time. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the ability of AMTs to form homo- and heterooligomers in planta, N-terminal or C-terminal halves of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) were fused to the C terminus of AMT1;1 and AMT1;3. Protein interactions were investigated by transient coexpression of the two fusions in Nicotiana benthamiana and by observing YFP fluorescence using confocal microscopy. Fluorescence was observed for coexpression of N-terminal halves of AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 with C-terminal halves linked to the same protein as well as for coexpression of AMT1;1 with AMT1;3 (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). No fluorescence was observed when AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 was coexpressed with a complementary free half of YFP. In all cases, reconstitution of fluorescence appeared confined to the plasma membrane. These data indicate that AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 form homo- and hetero-oligomers at the plasma membrane in planta.
!~MM~! The open reading frame of AMT1;3 was cloned into pDRf1-GW, which is a yeast shuttle vector carrying a Gateway cloning cassette (CITATION), resulting in the plasmid pDR-AMT1;3. The mutation was generated by site-directed mutagenesis of wild-type AMT1;3, yielding the plasmid pDR-AMT1;3TA using the primers AMT13TAF (GGGATGGATATGGCCCGTCACGGTGGC) and AMT1;3TAR (GCCACCGTGACGGGCCATATCCATCCC) or pDR-AMT1;3TD using the primers AMT13TDF (GGGATGGATATGGATCGTCACGGTGGC) and AMT1;3TDR (GCCACCGTGACGATCCATATCCATCCC). The yeast strain 31019b (Δmep1-3; CITATION) was used to generate the strain DL1 by deletion of Gap1 or by integrating AMTs into the Gap1 gene to generate ΔGap1::AMT1;3 or ΔGap1::AMT1;1, similar as described by CITATION. The resulting yeast strains were transformed with different plasmids, and growth complementation was assayed on solid yeast nitrogen based (YNB) medium supplemented with 3% Glc, 2 mM ammonium chloride, or 1 mM Arg as sole N source and buffered at pH 5.2 by 50 mM MES-Tris. For mating-based split-ubiquitin assays, AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 cDNAs were cloned into the mating-based split-ubiquitin Nub vectors pXN22_GW and pXN25_GW and Cub vector pMETYC_GW (CITATION). Assays were performed as described by CITATION. For the split-YFP assay, AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 cDNAs were cloned into the binary vectors pXNGW(-nYFP) and pXCGW (-cCFP). Assays were performed as described by CITATION. The indicated combinations of constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101 or C58C1 and mixed with the strain harboring the tomato bushy stunt virus P19 as silencing suppressor for the transient expression in leaf cells of Nicotiana benthamiana. Plants were precultured in a growth chamber for 36 to 48 h under the continuous light, and the lower surface of leaves was infiltrated with the mixture of Agrobacterium cells using a syringe. YFP-derived fluorescence was analyzed by confocal microscopy. The DNA fragment of AMT1;3, AMT1;3TA, or AMT1;3TD was released from the corresponding constructs and cloned into the pCR-BluntII-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). Then, a XbaI-SpeI fragment containing each AMT1;3 was subcloned between the CaMV35S promoter and rbcs terminator sequence into the plant transformation vector pPT-Hyg using the restriction site XbaI. The AMT1;3 promoter fragment was released from the AMT1;3 promoter:ORF-GFP fusion construct (CITATION) and inserted into pTOPO-AMT1;3TD, resulting in a pTOPO-AMT1;3Pro:AMT1;3TD plasmid. A XbaI-SpeI fragment containing AMT1;3Pro:AMT1;3TD was subcloned into the plant transformation vector pT-Hyg (modified pPT-Hyg by removing the CaMV35S promoter) using the restriction site XbaI. The DNA fragment of AMT1;1ORF-GFP was released from the AMT1;1 promoter:ORF-GFP fusion construct (CITATION) and cloned into pTOPO, resulting in the plasmid pTOPO-AMT1;1GFP. Then, an ApaI-EcoRI fragment containing AMT1;1ORF-GFP was subcloned between the CaMV35S promoter and terminator sequence into the plant transformation vector pGreen-Hyg. These constructs were used to transform Arabidopsis thaliana lines with defective AMT gene expression (CITATION; CITATION) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transformants were selected by hygromycin resistance, and homozygous T3 lines were further selected by segregation analysis. Arabidopsis plants were grown hydroponically for 6 weeks with full nutrient supply under a 22°C/18°C and 10-h/14-h light/dark regime and a light intensity of 280 µmol m−2 s−1 as described by CITATION. To induce N deficiency, plants were maintained in N-free nutrient solution for a period of 4 d. In plate growth experiments, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized and plated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (containing 5 mM nitrate as sole N source) solidified with Difco agar. The plants were precultured for 7 d and transferred to vertical plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with MeA at different concentrations. Plants were grown under axenic conditions in a growth chamber under the above-mentioned conditions except that the light intensity was 120 µmol m−2 s−1. Ammonium influx measurements in Arabidopsis roots were conducted after rinsing the roots of hydroponically grown plants in 1 mM CaSO4 solution for 1 min, followed by an incubation of 6 min in nutrient solution containing different concentrations of 15N-labeled NH4+ (95 atom% 15N) as the sole N source, before a final wash in 1 mM CaSO4 solution for 1 min. Roots were harvested and stored at −70°C before freeze-drying. Each sample was ground, and ∼1.6 mg powder was used for 15N determination by isotope ratio mass spectrometry (Finnigan). Total microsomal membrane fractions were extracted from Arabidopsis roots as described by CITATION. Protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford Protein Assay (Bio-Rad), and BSA served as a standard. Protein samples (5 to 10 µg per lane) were denatured in loading buffer (62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 10% [v/v] glycerol, 2% [w/v] SDS, 0.01% [w/v] bromophenol blue, and 1% PMSF), incubated at 37°C for 30 min with 2.5% [v/v] β-mercaptoethanol or without β-mercaptoethanol at 0°C, and then electrophoresed in 10 or 6% SDS polyacrylamide gels and transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes. Blots were developed using an ECL Advance Western Blotting Detection Kit (Amersham). Polyclonal antibodies were raised against the C terminus of AMT1;3, the loop between TM2 and TM3 of AMT1;1, and the C terminus of AMT1;1 (CITATION, CITATION). Protein gel blots were assayed with anti-GFP (Invitrogen) and peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG as a secondary antibody (Amersham). Magic Marker (Invitrogen) was used as molecular weight marker. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: AMT1;1 (At4g13510), AMT1;2 (At1g64780), AMT1;3 (At3g24300), AMT1;4 (At4g28700), AMT1;5 (At3g24290), and AMT2;1 (At2g38290). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Amino Acid Sequence Alignments of Arabidopsis AMT1;3 and AMT1;1. Supplemental Figure 2. Oligomerization of AMT1;3 in Roots. Supplemental Figure 3. Heterotrimerization of AMT1;3 and AMT1;1. Supplemental Figure 4. Functional Expression of C-Terminally Modified AMT1;3 Variants in the Quadruple Insertion Line qko as Revealed by Methylammonium Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 5. Inhibition of the Ammonium Transport Capacity in Roots of the Triple Insertion Line qko+AMT1;3 (qko+13) by Ectopic Expression of AMT1;3TD as Revealed by Methylammonium Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 6. Inhibition of the Ammonium Transport Capacity in Roots of the Triple Insertion Line qko+AMT1;1 (qko+11) by Ectopic Expression of AMT1;3TD as Revealed by Methylammonium Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 7. Inhibition of the Ammonium Transport Capacity in Roots of the Single Insertion Line amt1;3-1 by Ectopic Expression of AMT1;3TD as Revealed by Methylammonium Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 8. Inhibition of the Ammonium Transport Capacity in Roots of Arabidopsis Wild-Type Plants by Ectopic Expression of AMT1;3TD as Revealed by Methylammonium Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 9. Split-YFP–Based Interaction Assay for AMT1;1 and AMT1;3. Supplemental Figure 10. Model for the trans-Inactivation of a Trimeric AMT Complex by Phosphorylated AMT1;1 or AMT1;3.
