!~ABS~! DELLA proteins, consisting of GA INSENSITIVE, REPRESSOR OF GA1-3, RGA-LIKE1 (RGL1), RGL2, and RGL3, are central repressors of gibberellin (GA) responses, but their molecular functions are not fully understood. We isolated four DELLA-interacting RING domain proteins, previously designated as BOTRYTIS SUSCEPTIBLE1 INTERACTOR (BOI), BOI-RELATED GENE1 (BRG1), BRG2, and BRG3 (collectively referred to as BOIs). Single mutants of each BOI gene failed to significantly alter GA responses, but the boi quadruple mutant (boiQ) showed a higher seed germination frequency in the presence of paclobutrazol, precocious juvenile-to-adult phase transition, and early flowering, all of which are consistent with enhanced GA signaling. By contrast, BOI overexpression lines displayed phenotypes consistent with reduced GA signaling. Analysis of a gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutant further indicated that the GAI protein requires BOIs to inhibit a subset of GA responses. At the molecular level, BOIs did not significantly alter the stability of a DELLA protein. Instead, BOI and DELLA proteins are targeted to the promoters of a subset of GA-responsive genes and repress their expression. Taken together, our results indicate that the DELLA and BOI proteins inhibit GA responses by interacting with each other, binding to the same promoters of GA-responsive genes, and repressing these genes.
!~RES~! To gain insight into how DELLA proteins work, we used yeast two-hybrid screening to search for DELLA-interacting proteins. We identified an Arabidopsis RING domain protein, At4g19700, as a DELLA-interacting protein. A BLAST search showed that the Arabidopsis genome possesses three closely related homologs (>6e−39): At5g45100, At1g79110, and At3g12920. These four RING domain proteins have HCa-type RING motifs with three amino acids between the 4th and 5th residues of zinc-coordinating residues (see Supplemental Figure 1A online) (CITATION). Previously, At4g19700 was shown to interact with BOTRYTIS SUSCEPTIBLE1 (BOS1) protein; thus, the protein was named BOS1 INTERACTOR (BOI), and the three related proteins were named BOI-RELATED GENE1 (BRG1; At5g45100), BRG2 (At1g79110), and BRG3 (At3g12920) (CITATION). In our phylogenetic analysis, BOI and the BRGs clustered together with four closely related rice RING domain proteins rather than with other Arabidopsis RING domain proteins (see Supplemental Figure 1B and Supplemental Data Set 1 online), suggesting that these proteins might have similar functions in plants. For succinctness, we will hereafter use “BOIs” to collectively refer to BOI and the BRGs. We used yeast two-hybrid and immunoprecipitation assays to systematically determine if the DELLAs could interact with the BOIs. Full-length DELLAs are capable of activating transcription when fused to the DNA binding domain of GAL4 in yeast, so we individually fused five DELLAs (GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, and RGL3) to the GAL4 activation domain and the four BOIs to the DNA binding domain of GAL4. The presence of an interaction was judged by the growth of transformed yeast in selection medium lacking adenine, His, Leu, and Trp. For the most part, a yeast strain grew well in the selection media when it possessed one DELLA and one BOI (Figure 1A). There were two exceptions: For RGL2, yeast grew with BOI but not with the BRGs; and for RGL3, yeast grew well with all of the BOIs except BRG2. However, because yeast two-hybrid assays sometimes fail to identify true interactions, it is unclear whether these exceptions indicate a lack of protein–protein interaction, the presence of a very weak interaction, or an anomaly associated with the yeast two-hybrid assay. [[FIGURE]] We further probed the interaction by pull-down assays using recombinant DELLA proteins (GAI, RGA, and RGL2) and extracts from plants expressing three of the BOIs (BOI, BRG2, and BRG3). For the assay, we mixed maltose binding protein (MBP)–tagged recombinant DELLAs with extracts of 7-d-old light-grown stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing FLAG-tagged BOIs or green fluorescent protein (GFP) (BOI-OX5, BRG2-OX1, BRG3-OX1, or GFP-OX) and tested if the DELLAs could precipitate the BOIs. We were not able to generate transgenic lines expressing BRG1, so all subsequent experiments were performed with BOI, BRG2, and BRG3. We found that GAI and RGA precipitated BOI, BRG2, and BRG3, but not GFP. In contrast with results obtained in yeast two-hybrid assays, RGL2 also precipitated BOIs but not GFP, indicating that RGL2 also interacts with BOIs (Figure 1B). FLAG tag has shown not to bind to DELLA proteins (CITATION). MBP alone did not pull down any of the BOIs, supporting our contention that DELLAs directly interact with BOIs. An interaction was also observed between BOI and endogenous RGA in the sly1-10 mutant, which accumulates DELLA proteins due to its inability to ubiquitylate them in response to GA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Here, we transiently expressed FLAG-tagged BOI in 10-d-old light-grown sly1-10 mutant and tested if the expressed BOI could bind and precipitate endogenous RGA. As shown in Figure 1C, FLAG-tagged BOI precipitated endogenous RGA, whereas FLAG-tagged GFP did not. We also probed for interactions using a stable transgenic line expressing FLAG-tagged BOI or FLAG-tagged GFP in a wild-type background. For this assay, we grew plants for 10 d in white light conditions in the presence of 1 µM paclobutrazol (PAC), an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis, and determined if BOI bound and precipitated endogenous RGA. Consistent with an interaction between these proteins, FLAG-tagged BOI precipitated endogenous RGA, whereas FLAG-tagged GFP did not (Figure 1D). These results confirm that BOI interacts with endogenous RGA in vivo, suggesting that BOIs might regulate GA signaling by interacting with DELLA proteins. To investigate the role of BOIs in GA signaling in Arabidopsis, we generated overexpression lines of BOI, BRG2, and BRG3 using the 35S promoter (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). We also isolated boi and brg single mutants that had T-DNAs in their exons and did not express full-length BOI mRNAs, suggesting that they are null alleles (see Supplemental Figures 3B and 3C online). Since BOIs are likely to function redundantly, we further crossed the single mutants to generate a boi quadruple mutant (boi-2 brg1-1 brg2-1 brg3-3; designated boiQ). We then characterized the boiQ and BOI-overexpressing lines and compared them with a DELLA pentuple mutant (dellaP). The dellaP mutant was generated by crossing five della mutants in a Columbia-0 (Col-0) background (rga-28, an introgressed gai-t6, rgl1-SK62, rgl2-SK54, and rgl3-3). The dellaP displayed constitutive GA responses even in the absence of GA treatment. We first determined whether BOIs regulate GA responses during seed germination. Germination frequency was determined under white light in the presence of increasing concentrations of PAC. Consistent with the inhibitory roles of DELLA proteins in GA signaling during seed germination (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), only about half of the wild-type seeds germinated in the presence of 20 μM PAC, whereas 100% of the dellaP mutant seeds germinated (Figure 2A). Single mutations in the BOI and BRG genes did not significantly affect germination, but the boiQ quadruple mutant showed ∼90% germination in the presence of 20 μM PAC, suggesting that the BOIs inhibit GA responses during seed germination (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 3D online). Consistent with this inhibitory role, all of the BOI overexpression lines germinated less than wild-type seeds in the presence of PAC (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 3E online). Taken together, these results indicate that BOIs redundantly inhibit GA responses during seed germination. [[FIGURE]] Chlorophyll accumulation has been shown to be inhibited by GA (CITATION). Here, we report that BOIs also inhibit chlorophyll accumulation, which was determined by extracting and measuring chlorophyll from the 5th or 6th leaves of 20-d-old long-day (LD)-grown plants. Consistent with the role of GA, the dellaP and boiQ mutants had paler leaves and mildly but significantly lower chlorophyll levels compared with the wild type. By contrast, the BOI-OXs had higher chlorophyll levels (Figure 2B). Similar to the BOI-OXs, the other BRG-OX lines also had slightly but significantly higher chlorophyll accumulations (see Supplemental Figure 3F online). These results indicate that both the BOIs and the DELLAs promote chlorophyll accumulation. The BOIs and DELLAs also both inhibited the juvenile-to-adult phase transition, as determined by the appearance of abaxial trichomes. When grown under the LD condition, wild-type plants developed abaxial trichomes on approximately the 9th leaf (Figure 2C). By contrast, dellaP mutant developed abaxial trichomes earlier, on the 6th leaf, supporting the notion that GA promotes this phase transition. The boiQ mutant also developed abaxial trichomes earlier, on the 5th or 6th leaf, while the BOI-OXs developed abaxial trichomes later, on the 14th leaf of BOI-OX1 and the 15th leaf of BOI-OX2. Similarly, the BRG-OXs also developed abaxial trichomes later than wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 3G online). This phase transition is known to be promoted by a set of SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN (SPL) transcription factors (CITATION). To determine if the BOIs and DELLAs regulate the transition by altering SPL expression, we grew Arabidopsis under the LD condition and determined the expression levels of SPL3, -4, and -5. The boiQ mutant expressed higher levels of all three SPL mRNAs compared with the wild type, whereas the BOI-OXs expressed lower levels (Figure 2D). Overexpression of the other BRGs also decreased the levels of all three SPL mRNAs (see Supplemental Figure 3H online). Similar to boiQ, the dellaP mutant expressed higher levels of SPL3 and SPL5 mRNAs compared with the wild type; however, dellaP plants expressed the SPL4 mRNA at a level similar to that of wild-type plants. The increased levels of SPL mRNA in the dellaP mutant is consistent with previous reports showing a decrease in the levels of SPL mRNA in a transgenic line expressing a GA catabolic gene or in the triple gid1a-c mutant (CITATION; CITATION). Taken together, our results suggest that BOIs and DELLAs both inhibit the juvenile-to-adult phase transition by repressing SPL expression but are not identical in their regulation of SPL4. A previous study reported that RGA also interacts with SPL3 and SPL9 at the protein level (CITATION); thus, our results further suggest that DELLAs regulate SPLs at both the transcriptional and posttranslational levels. The BOIs and DELLAs inhibited flowering under both LD and short-day (SD) conditions (Figures 3A to 3C). Under the LD condition, wild-type plants bolted at 27 d after sowing and showed 15 rosette leaves. By contrast, the boiQ mutant bolted at 20 d with 10 rosette leaves, and the BOI-OXs flowered much later (43 and 59 d with 39 and 46 rosette leaves, respectively) (Figures 3B and 3C). Similar to boiQ, the dellaP mutant also flowered early, at 22 d with 11 rosette leaves. The boiQ and dellaP plants also flowered earlier than the wild type under the SD condition. Wild-type plants flowered at 75 d after sowing and showed 50 rosette leaves. By contrast, the boiQ mutant flowered at 46 d with 25 rosette leaves, whereas the BOI-OX2 flowered at 110 d or later after developing more than 60 rosette leaves (Figures 3B and 3C). The dellaP mutant also flowered earlier, at 53 d with 30 rosette leaves. Overexpression of the other BOIs also delayed flowering under the LD condition (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Taken together, these results indicate that the BOIs and DELLAs inhibit flowering under both LD and SD conditions. [[FIGURE]] GA is known to promote flowering by activating the expressions of LEAFY (LFY) and SUPPRESSOR OF CONSTANS1 (SOC1) (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we examined the mRNA expression levels of LFY and SOC1 in samples taken at the 12th hour and 8th hour after light exposure under the LD and SD conditions, respectively. The boiQ mutant expressed higher levels of LFY mRNA compared with the wild type under both conditions, whereas the BOI-OXs expressed lower levels of LFY under these conditions (Figure 3D). The SOC1 mRNA was expressed at a higher level in boiQ and lower levels in the BOI-OXs. The dellaP mutant expressed a higher level of LFY mRNA compared with the wild type under both LD and SD conditions, whereas the SOC1 mRNA was relatively unchanged (Figure 3D). These results indicate that both BOIs and DELLAs inhibit flowering by repressing the expression of LFY mRNA. However, the boiQ and dellaP mutants were not identical in their regulations of SOC1 mRNA expression, indicating that the BOIs and DELLAs inhibit flowering both redundantly and independently. We also determined whether the BOIs regulate hypocotyl and root elongation. When seedlings were grown under red light, the dellaP mutant had longer hypocotyls than wild-type plants; the boiQ mutant had hypocotyl lengths similar to those of the wild type; and the hypocotyls of the BOI-OXs were shorter than those of the wild type (Figure 4A). This indicates that although BOI overexpression could repress hypocotyl elongation under red light, the tested BOI mutations were not sufficient to cause hypocotyl elongation. To examine this effect further, we determined hypocotyl length in the presence of various concentrations of PAC. Seedlings were grown for 6 d in the dark on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media containing low concentrations of PAC. In wild-type plants, the hypocotyl length decreased from 16 to 6 mm when the concentration of PAC was increased from 0 to 1 μM. The hypocotyl lengths of both boiQ and the BOI-OXs also decreased in a manner similar to that of the wild type, whereas the hypocotyl length of dellaP remained relatively unchanged (Figure 4B). Similar to our findings for hypocotyl length, the dellaP mutant had longer root lengths than the wild type in the absence of PAC, the boiQ mutant had root lengths similar to those of the wild type, and the BOI-OXs had shorter root lengths than the wild type. When plants were grown in the presence of 1 µM PAC, the root lengths of wild-type plants were reduced by 58%, those of the dellaP mutant were not significantly altered, and those of boiQ and the two BOI-OXs were reduced by 56, 58, and 74%, respectively (Figure 4C). The further reduction in the root length of BOI-OX2 in the PAC-containing media is likely to reflect the slower germination kinetics of these seeds. Taken together, these results indicate that BOIs are not necessary for hypocotyl and root elongation, but their overexpression could reduce elongation independent of the DELLAs. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the functional relationship between BOIs and DELLAs, we crossed the gai-1 mutant, a dominant gain-of-function mutant of GAI, with boiQ to generate a gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutant. Various GA responses were determined in the pentuple mutant, and these results were compared with those from the gai-1 single mutant. We first determined the germination frequency of cold-imbibed seeds in the presence of PAC. All seeds germinated well in the absence of PAC. In the presence of PAC, 56% of wild-type seeds germinated, almost 100% of the boiQ mutant seeds germinated, only 20% of the gai-1 mutant germinated, and almost 100% of the gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutants germinated (Figure 5A). Thus, the boiQ mutation appears to be epistatic to the gai-1 mutation. The rescue of germination by the boiQ mutation was not caused by an alteration in gai-1 mRNA expression, as both gai-1 single and gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutants expressed similar levels of the gai-1 mRNA (Figure 5B). These results indicate that gai-1 requires BOIs to inhibit seed germination. [[FIGURE]] We next determined the timing of the juvenile-to-adult phase transition by determining the appearance of abaxial trichomes. Wild-type plants developed abaxial trichomes on the 8th leaf under the LD condition, whereas boiQ plants developed theirs on the 6th leaf. Under the same conditions, the gai-1 mutants developed abaxial trichomes on the 10th leaf, while the gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutant developed abaxial trichomes on the 7th leaf (Figure 5C). The gai-1 also required BOIs to inhibit flowering. Under the LD condition, wild-type plants flowered after developing 14 rosette leaves, whereas boiQ mutants flowered after developing around 10 rosette leaves. Under the same conditions, the gai-1 mutants flowered after developing 23 rosette leaves, whereas the gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutants flowered much earlier, after developing only ∼12 rosette leaves (Figure 5D). However, gai-1 did not require BOIs to exhibit decreased hypocotyl elongation. When grown in red light, gai-1 plants had much shorter hypocotyls than wild-type plants, boiQ plants had a hypocotyl length similar to that of the wild type, and the gai-1 boiQ pentuple mutant had a hypocotyl length similar to that of gai-1 plants (Figure 5E), indicating that the BOIs are not required for the shortened hypocotyl phenotype of the gai-1 mutant. Taken together, our results indicate that GAI requires BOIs to inhibit GA responses such as seed germination, phase transition, and flowering, but not hypocotyl elongation. Since the BOIs are RING domain proteins that reportedly possess ubiquitin E3 ligase activity, we tested whether the RING motif of the BOI protein was necessary to inhibit GA responses (CITATION). We generated transgenic plants expressing FLAG-tagged BOI lacking the RING motif (BOIdC-OX1 and BOIdC-OX2) and determined the germination and flowering phenotypes (Figure 6A). We also generated transgenic lines expressing FLAG-tagged full-length BOI (BOI-OX3 and BOI-OX4). BOI-OX3 and -OX4 germinated less than wild-type seeds in the presence of PAC, whereas the BOIdC-OXs germinated at similar or slightly higher rates than the wild type (Figure 6A). Similarly, the BOIdC-OXs did not show any alteration in flowering time, whereas BOI-OX3 and -OX4 delayed flowering under the LD condition (Figure 6B). The inability of the RINGless BOI to function was not due to decreased expression, as the BOIdC protein was expressed at a much higher level than the full-length BOI protein (Figure 6C). Taken together, these results indicate that the RING motif is necessary for BOI to inhibit a subset of GA responses. [[FIGURE]] Since the RING domain of BOI appears to be necessary for its function, it is feasible that BOIs ubiquitylate and promote degradation of their interacting proteins. Since both BOIs and DELLAs inhibit GA responses, it did not seem likely that BOIs destabilize DELLAs. Nevertheless, we tested endogenous RGA protein levels in wild-type and boiQ mutant seedlings. The initial RGA levels were similar between wild-type and boiQ mutant seedlings, and when exogenous GA was applied, RGA was degraded rapidly in wild-type and boiQ seedlings, showing similar kinetics (Figures 7A and 7B). These results indicate that BOIs do not drastically alter the stability of RGA in plants, further suggesting that BOIs repress GA responses via other means. [[FIGURE]] Previous reports indicated that DELLAs interact with PIFs and inhibit their binding to target DNA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we examined whether BOI enhances DELLA to inhibit binding of PIF3 to its target promoters, using transgenic plants expressing either PIF3-Myc alone (PIF3-OX3) or PIF3-Myc together with BOI (PIF3-OX3 BOI-OX1). The PIF3-OX3 BOI-OX1 was generated by crossing PIF3-OX3 and BOI-OX1 and selecting double homozygous lines expressing levels of PIF3-Myc and His-BOI similar to those of the parental lines. PIF3-ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) analyses showed that a representative target promoter (the PIL1 promoter) was enriched comparably in PIF3-OX3 and PIF3-OX3 BOI-OX1 lines (Figure 7C). These results indicate that BOI overexpression does not enhance the ability of DELLAs to inhibit the binding of DNA by PIF3. DELLAs are also known to target and regulate various gene promoters (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since BOIs and DELLAs interact, we hypothesized that the two protein families could target and regulate the same regulatory regions of genes. We thus examined if the two proteins were targeted to the regulatory regions of various GA-responsive genes (EXP8, PRE1, PRE5, and SCL3). These GA-responsive genes were chosen because they were shown to be direct target genes of DELLAs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We used ChIP analysis to determine if RGA and BOI were targeted to these promoters. Consistent with a previous report, RGA was targeted to the promoter of SCL3, as shown by strong enrichment of a specific SCL3 promoter fragment by anti-RGA antibody (RGA-ChIP) in the sly1-10 mutant (Figures 8A and 8B). Similarly, RGA-ChIP also strongly enriched specific promoter fragments of EXP8, PRE1, and PRE5, whereas it did not enrich thePP2A promoter, indicating that RGA is targeted to theSCL3, EXP8, PRE1, and PRE5 promoters. Similar ChIP assays using anti-BOI (BOI-ChIP) also strongly enriched specific fragments of EXP8, PRE1, and PRE5, indicating that BOI is also targeted to these promoters. Unlike the RGA-ChIP, however, BOI-ChIP did not enrich the SCL3 promoter (Figure 8B). Thus, our results indicate that RGA and BOI are targeted to the regulatory regions of shared but distinct gene sets. [[FIGURE]] We further examined whether BOI also represses these direct target genes of DELLA. We determined mRNA expression levels in 7-d-old LD-grown seedlings and found that the levels of EXP8, PRE1, and PRE5 were strongly elevated in the dellaP mutant compared with the wild type, whereas the mRNA level of SCL3 was comparable to that of the wild type under our experimental conditions (Figure 8C). In the boiQ mutant, the mRNA level of SCL3 was unchanged but the others were elevated either moderately (EXP8 and PRE1) or strongly (PRE5), indicating that BOI represses the expression of its target genes. Consistent with its repressor function, the mRNA levels of EXP8, PRE1, and PRE5 (but not SCL3) were strongly repressed in the BOI-OXs. Taken together, these results indicate that DELLA and BOI are targeted to a subset of GA-responsive gene promoters and repress their expression levels. As shown in the case of SCL3, however, DELLAs and BOIs may also be targeted separately to the regulatory regions of other genes.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in a growth room at 22 to 24°C, with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle for the LD condition or an 8-h-light/16-h-dark cycle for the SD condition. T-DNA insertion mutants of brg1-1, brg2-1, and brg3-3 in a Col-0 background were obtained from the Salk Institute and the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (SALK_010178, SAIL_95_F06, and GABI_661B07, respectively) (CITATION). The boi-2 mutant allele from RIKEN (RATM11-5576-1_G) in the No-0 background was isolated and introgressed into the Col-0 by backcrossing four times (CITATION). The boi quadruple mutant (boiQ) was generated by crossing, followed by selection of introgressed boi-2, brg1-1, brg2-1, and brg3-3 mutants. To generate the 35S:His-BOI (for the BOI-OX1 and BOI-OX2 lines) and 35S:BOI-FLAG transgenic lines (for the BOI-OX5 line), the BOI gene was amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA, cloned into the pBARH8 and pbFLAG2 binary vectors, respectively, and subsequently transformed into Arabidopsis by the floral dip method (CITATION). To generate 35S:FLAG-BOI (for the BOI-OX3 and BOI-OX4 lines), 35S:FLAG-BRG2 (for the BRG2-OX1 line), 35S:FLAG-BRG3 (for the BRG3-OX1 line), and 35S:FLAG-BOIdC (223 amino acids) transgenic plants, the respective inserts were cloned into the phNF binary vector for Arabidopsis transformation. The sly1-10 mutant in Landsberg erecta was introgressed into Col-0 by backcrossing three times before use. The gai-1 and gai-t6 mutants were backcrossed to Col-0 six times (CITATION). The rga-28 (SALK_089146), rgl1-SK62 (SALK_136162), rgl2-SK54 (SALK_027654), and rgl3-3 (CS16355) lines were generated in the Col-0 background at the Salk Institute (CITATION; CITATION). The della pentuple mutant (dellaP) was generated by crossing rga-28, rgl1-SK62, rgl2-SK54, rgl3-3, and introgressed gai-t6. All of the oligomers used in cloning and testing T-DNA insertions are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online, and vectors are described below and in Supplemental Table 2 online. The multicloning sites (MCSs) of binary vectors (pCAMBIA; http://www.cambia.org/daisy/cambia/585), Escherichia coli expression vectors (pET and pMAL; Invitrogen and NEB), and yeast two-hybrid vectors (pGADT7 and pGBKT7; Clontech) were modified to accommodate the need to minimize unnecessary PCR amplification and sequencing. Two oligomers were designed to have common serial recognition sites for restriction enzymes (XbaI-XmaI-AvrII-BamHI-SalI) and to maintain the correct reading frame of genetic codes. Adapter DNA fragments specific for the MCS of each vector were prepared by denaturing oligomers at 94°C for 1 min and then annealing by gradually cooling to 20°C using a stepwise protocol with 1-min intermittent incubations; prepared double-stranded adapter DNAs were kept at 4°C until use. Original vectors from each company were digested, purified, and ligated with the respective adapters to create pCAMBIAM (phNIL), pETM, pMALM, pGADM, and pGBKM (see Supplemental Table 1 online for each adapter sequence). pBARH8 and pbFLAG2 binary vectors were modified from pCB301 by adapter ligation by adding an 8XHis-tag at the N terminus and a 3XFLAG-tag at the C terminus, respectively. phNF was generated by ligating SpeI-SmaI digests of phNIL and 3XFLAG amplified from pbFLAG2. Depending on the abundance of the mRNA of interest (http://bar.utoronto.ca/affydb/cgi-bin/affy_db_exprss_browser_in.cgi), different tissues were used as sources of template cDNA. PCR oligomers were designed to have restriction enzyme sites compatible for binary vectors, yeast vectors, and recombinant protein expression vectors. Forward oligomers were made to contain a start codon (ATG) following the restriction site, and reverse oligomers were designed to not have stop codons. Stop codons in all three different reading frames are present downstream of the MCS in all vectors. BOIs and DELLAs amplified with Pfu DNA polymerase (Solgent) were cloned and confirmed to be free of mutation by automatic sequencing. Sequences and restriction sites are described in Supplemental Table 1 online. Supplemental Table 2 online lists all of the vectors and related information. Germination assays were performed with batch seeds harvested and dried for at least 2 months to remove dormancy. Briefly, sterilized seeds were plated on 0.5× MS medium (Duchefa) with different concentrations of PAC. After 6 d of incubation under continuous white light at 22°C, the germination frequency was determined by counting the seeds that showed emerging radicles. For the gai-1 and gai-1 boiQ mutants, Col-0, boiQ, gai-1, and gai-1 boiQ seeds were dried for 1 month, stratified at 4°C for 4 d, and then placed under constant light for 6 d. To measure hypocotyl and root elongation on PAC, seeds were sown on 0.5× MS plus 1% Suc plates supplemented with different concentrations of PAC. Hypocotyl experiments were performed similarly to that previously described (CITATION) with some minor modifications. After a 4-d stratification, the plates were illuminated for 6 h and then incubated in the dark for an additional 6 d. For the root tests, seedlings were vertically grown under the LD condition for 10 d as previously described for the white light condition (CITATION). For measurement of hypocotyl length, seedlings were stratified and then grown on 0.5× MS medium under continuous red light (20 μmol m−2 s−1) for 4 d as previously described (CITATION). Hypocotyls from at least 15 seedlings were measured using Scion Image software (http://scion-image.software.informer.com). Chlorophyll levels were measured from the 5th or 6th leaves of LD-grown plants. The extraction method was similar to those previously described (CITATION; CITATION) with some modifications. Leaves were submerged in 1 mL of 95% ethanol and kept at 4°C in the dark for at least 10 h. The sums of the absorbance at 664.2 and 648.6 nm divided by the leaf fresh weight were used as the indexes for chlorophyll levels. Vegetative-phase transition and flowering time were measured similarly to the previous description (CITATION). For the analysis of vegetative-phase transition, the number of juvenile leaves lacking an abaxial trichome was counted in 1-month-old LD-grown plants. Flowering time was determined by counting the numbers of rosette leaves and noting the number of growth days when plants had 1-cm bolts. For expression analysis, total mRNA was extracted using the Spectrum plant total RNA kit (Sigma-Aldrich) and then converted to cDNA using MMLV-RTase (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Quantitative PCR was performed using an iCycler IQ5 (Bio-Rad) real-time PCR system using SYBR Green, and the relative transcript level of each gene, as compared with that of PP2A, was determined by the delta cycle threshold method (CITATION). Gene expression patterns were confirmed using three biological replicates. All of the oligomers used for quantitative PCR are summarized in Supplemental Table 1 online. To determine protein levels, 7-d-old light-grown seedlings were harvested and pulverized with a TissueLyser (Qiagen) in liquid nitrogen. Total proteins were extracted from the resulting seedling powders using denaturing buffer (100 mM Na2HPO4, 8 M urea, and 10 mM Tris-Cl, pH 8.0) as previously described (CITATION). Supernatants were collected by centrifugation at 4°C for 10 min, mixed with 5× SDS sample buffer, and boiled for 5 min. Equal amounts of total proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and subjected to immunoblotting. For GA3 treatments, 7-d-old light-grown seedlings on plates were submerged in 100 µM GA3 solution and harvested at different time points. Total proteins were extracted, and immunoblotting with a rabbit anti-RGA antibody was used to detect endogenous RGA levels. The anti-RGA antibody was raised against the peptide, LysArgAspHisHisGlnPheGlnGlyArgLeuSerAsnHisGly, and the antiserum was subjected to affinity purification (Abfrontier). The specificity and sensitivity of the antibody were tested using Col-0 and rga-28. To generate the anti-BOI antibody, recombinant BOI-his protein was produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) RIL using pET29a (Invitrogen), and the protein was affinity purified under denaturing conditions and injected into rabbits (Abfrontier). For our in vitro binding assays, recombinant MBP-RGA and MBP-GAI proteins were produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) RIL using the pMAL-c2X vector and purified on an amylose resin (NEB) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. FLAG-tagged BOIs were extracted from 7-d-old light-grown BOI-overexpressing seedlings using a nondenaturing lysis buffer containing 50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.05% Nonidet P-40, 50 μM MG132, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). Lysis buffer (1 mL) was mixed with 1 mL of seedling powder, and the lysates were further homogenized by being passed through a QiaShredder column (Qiagen). After centrifugation at 4°C for 10 min, equal amounts of supernatants were incubated with MBP-RGA, MBP-GAI, or MBP-bound resin at 4°C for 2 h, followed by four washes with lysis buffer lacking MG132 and the protease inhibitor. FLAG-tagged BOIs bound to MBP-RGA and MBP-GAI were visualized by immunoblotting with a rabbit anti-FLAG antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). For our in vivo coimmunoprecipitation assay involving FLAG-BOI and endogenous RGA, Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration was used to transiently express 35S:FLAG-BOI and 35S:FLAG-GFP (in the binary vector, phNF) in 10-d-old light-grown sly1-10 mutants in a Landsberg erecta background. The protocol was similar to those previously described (CITATION; CITATION) with some modifications. Briefly, Agrobacterium harboring FLAG-BOI and FLAG-GFP binary vectors were suspended in 5% Suc solution and infiltrated into sly1-10 seedlings on a plate using a vacuum method (2 min of vacuum, break, and 2 min of vacuum). Infiltrated seedlings were incubated in a growth chamber for 3 d after three washes with autoclaved water and harvested for coimmunoprecipitation experiments. The sly1-10 seedlings expressing FLAG-BOI and FLAG-GFP were ground in liquid nitrogen, and total proteins were extracted using the nondenaturing lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 2 mM DTT, 0.05% Nonidet P-40, 50 μM MG132, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail). The obtained supernatants were incubated with anti-FLAG conjugated resin (Sigma) for 2 h at 4°C, washed four times with lysis buffer lacking MG132, boiled in SDS sample buffer, and then subjected to immunoblotting. Anti-FLAG and anti-RGA antibodies were used to detect FLAG-BOI, GFP-FLAG, and endogenous RGA. For in vivo coimmunoprecipitation assay using the BOI-OX5 and GFP-OX lines, transgenic seedlings were grown on the medium containing 1 µM PAC under white light for 10 d, and the coimmunoprecipitation assay was performed as described above. Each of the BOI genes was cloned into pGBKM, a derivative of pGBKT7 bait vector, and each of the DELLA genes was cloned into pGADM, a derivative of pGADT7 prey vector, using PCR-based methods and oligomers summarized in Supplemental Table 1 online. Yeast (strain AH109) was simultaneously cotransformed with various combinations of bait and prey vectors according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech). Briefly, transformed yeast cells were collected and spotted onto synthetic dropout medium lacking Trp and Leu (SD-2), which selects for yeast harboring both pGBKM and pGADM vectors, or onto synthetic dropout medium lacking Trp, Leu, adenine, and His (SD-4), which selects for yeast harboring pGBKM and pGADM encoding an interacting pair of proteins. 3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole was not used in these assays. For the ChIP analyses, sly1-10 in the Col-0 background and BOI-OX1 were grown for 7 d under the LD condition, and PIF3-OX3 and PIF3-OX3 BOI-OX1 were grown for 7 d in the dark. ChIP was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, formaldehyde-cross-linked seedlings were ground under liquid nitrogen, and 1 mL of powder was dissolved in 1 mL of ChIP lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, 0.1% sodium deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, 1× protease inhibitor cocktail, and 40 μM MG132) and sonicated to obtain DNA fragments of ∼500 bp. After centrifugation, the chromatin was mixed with the appropriate antibody and the mixture was incubated for 5 h. Then, 20 μL of salmon sperm DNA-coated protein A agarose resin (Millipore) was added, and the sample was incubated for an additional 3 h. The resin was sequentially washed with low-salt wash buffer, high-salt wash buffer, lithium chloride wash buffer, and TE buffer. The immunoprecipitated DNA was eluted from the resin in 200 μL of elution buffer (20 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 1% SDS, and 50 mg/mL proteinase K) at 65°C overnight, and the residual DNA was further eluted in 50 μL of elution buffer. After purification with a PCR purification kit (Solgent), the eluted DNA samples were subjected to quantitative PCR. All of the oligomers used for quantification of the ChIP DNA were designed manually due to problems with low GC content, particularly in the promoter regions. To test the amplification specificities and efficiencies of the generated oligomers, we confirmed the amplification of single DNA bands and used parallel amplification curves to minimize the bias from the delta cycle threshold method. The oligomers used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. DNA sequences were manipulated using the pDRAW32 program for oligomer design, prediction of restriction enzyme sites, in silico cloning, and gene fusion (http://www.acaclone.com). ClustalW and MEGA5 were used to align and generate a neighbor joining tree among the BOI homologs (http://www.megasoftware.net) (CITATION). For heat map analyses, normalized mRNA data were obtained from the BAR expression browser (http://bar.utoronto.ca/affydb/cgi-bin/affy_db_exprss_browser_in.cgi) and visualized using a BAR heat mapper tool (http://bar.utoronto.ca/ntools/cgi-bin/ntools_heatmapper.cgi) (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: BOI (At4g19700), BRG1 (At5g45100), BRG2 (At1g79110), BRG3 (At3g12920), SPL3 (At2g33810), SPL4 (At1g53160), SPL5 (At3g15270), SOC1 (At2g45660), LFY (At5g61850), RGA (At2g01570), GAI (At1g14920), EXP8 (At2g40610), PRE1 (At5g39860), PRE5 (At3g28857), SCL3 (At1g50420), and PP2A (At1g13320). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Amino Acid Sequence Alignment of BOI and BRGs. Supplemental Figure 2. The Specificity of RGA Antibody. Supplemental Figure 3. Redundant Roles of BOI Family Members. Supplemental Figure 4. Regulation of Flowering by BRGs. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression Patterns of BOI and BRGs. Supplemental Figure 6. Regulation of BOI and BRGs by PIF1. Supplemental Table 1. Primer List. Supplemental Table 2. Vector List. Supplemental Data Set 1. Sequence Alignment for NJ Tree.
