!~ABS~! Pectins are complex polysaccharides that form the gel matrix of the primary cell wall and are abundant in the middle lamella that holds plant cells together. Their degree of methylesterification (DM) impacts wall strength and cell adhesion since unesterified pectin regions can cross-link via Ca2+ ions to form stronger gels. Here, we characterize flying saucer1 (fly1), a novel Arabidopsis thaliana seed coat mutant, which displays primary wall detachment, reduced mucilage extrusion, and increased mucilage adherence. These defects appear to result from a lower DM in mucilage and are enhanced by the addition of Ca2+ or completely rescued using alkaline Ca2+ chelators. FLY1 encodes a transmembrane protein with a RING-H2 domain that has in vitro E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. FLY1 is orthologous to TRANSMEMBRANE UBIQUITIN LIGASE1, a Golgi-localized E3 ligase involved in the quality control of membrane proteins in yeast. However, FLY1–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusions are localized in punctae that are predominantly distinct from the Golgi and the trans-Golgi network/early endosome in the seed coat epidermis. Wortmannin treatment, which induces the fusion of late endosomes in plants, resulted in enlarged FLY1-YFP bodies. We propose that FLY1 regulates the DM of pectin in mucilage, potentially by recycling pectin methylesterase enzymes in the endomembrane system of seed coat epidermal cells.
!~RES~! The fly1-1 mutant line was isolated by screening for seed mucilage defects in a Columbia-2 (Col-2) population mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). Wild-type extruded mucilage is not homogeneous but consists of an outer, nonadherent layer that is easily removed by shaking in water and an inner, adherent layer, which remains attached to the seed even after prolonged shaking (see Supplemental Figure 1 online; CITATION; CITATION). Mature wild-type seeds, shaken in water and stained with Ruthenium Red (RR), a pectin dye (CITATION), are surrounded by a pink gel-like capsule (Figure 1A). In contrast with the wild type, hydrated fly1-1 seeds appear to release smaller mucilage halos, surrounded by a large number of darkly stained small discs (Figure 1B). The difference between wild-type and fly1-1 mucilage halos is enhanced when dry seeds are hydrated directly in RR (see Supplemental Figures 1C and 1D online). The fly1-1 discs appear at the periphery of the adherent mucilage layer and are not detached from the seed after 24 h of shaking with an orbital rotator (see Supplemental Figures 1E and 1F online). This suggests that the discs are strongly bound to the adherent mucilage and may result from reduced mucilage extrusion in fly1-1 compared with the wild type. Although mucilage must be stained to be clearly observed (Figure 1C), the fly1-1 discs are also visible without staining, suggesting that they cannot be composed solely of mucilage (Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] Mature seed coat epidermal cells contain three morphologically and chemically distinct cell walls (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The fly1-1 discs resemble the polygonal shape of the outer tangential primary walls, which are normally attached to the columellae of hydrated seeds (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We therefore examined the position of the outer primary walls in wild-type and fly1-1 seeds shaken in water. All wild-type seed epidermal cells have primary walls attached to their columellae, but many fly1-1 cells display columellae with no attached walls (see Supplemental Figures 1G and 1H online). We further investigated the composition of the fly1-1 discs using Pontamine Fast Scarlet 4B (S4B), which preferentially stains cellulose microfibrils (CITATION). All wild-type seed coat epidermal cells have S4B-stained primary wall fragments attached to their columellae (Figures 1E and 1G), consistent with the observations made using unstained seeds in water. Although wild type and fly1-1 have similar levels of diffuse S4B labeling in the inner mucilage layers, fly1-1 seeds display many S4B-stained discs, which are at the outer edge of the mucilage halo and are positioned above columellae that lack S4B-labeled primary wall attachment (Figures 1F and 1H). The surface morphology of wild-type and fly1-1 dry seeds was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Wild-type and fly1-1 seed epidermal cells displayed outer tangential cell walls and columellae with similar shapes and sizes (Figures 2A and 2B). To investigate the structure of extruded mucilage, seeds hydrated in water were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and examined with cryo-scanning electron microscopy (cryoSEM). Both wild-type and fly1-1 hydrated seeds display intricate mesh-like networks of mucilage (Figures 2C to 2F). However, only the mutant seeds show electron-dense discs on top of the extruded mucilage matrix (Figures 2D and 2F), consistent with position of RR-stained discs at the edge of the fly1-1 mucilage halo (Figure 1B). Since the outer primary cell walls viewed with SEM (Figure 2B) and the fly1-1 discs observed with cryoSEM (Figures 2D and 2F) or RR staining (Figure 1B) resemble polygons, we measured their diameters (>30 samples per technique) and compared them using Student’s t tests. The diameter of fly1-1 outer tangential primary walls observed with SEM (32.95 ± 0.69 µm; mean ± se) is similar to that of RR-stained discs (32.98 ± 0.88 µm; P = 0.98). The cryoSEM discs (30.88 ± 0.70 µm) are similar to RR-stained discs (P = 0.066, >0.05) but significantly smaller than walls in SEM micrographs (P = 0.038, <0.05). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of hydrated seeds prior to and after S4B staining revealed that fly1-1 discs contain cellulose and are positioned above columellae lacking attached primary walls. The fly1-1 discs in light and cryoSEM micrographs were similar in size to the primary walls of the seed coat epidermis visualized with SEM. Overall, the results in this section strongly support the hypothesis that the outer tangential primary cell walls of many fly1-1 seed coat epidermal cells detach from columellae upon mucilage extrusion in water. To determine if the fly1-1 mucilage extrusion defects result from abnormal seed coat differentiation, fixed sections of developing seeds were analyzed using light microscopy. The development of fly1-1 seed epidermal cells is indistinguishable from the wild type and mucilage biosynthesis appears unaffected (Figures 1I to 1L), unlike mutants that synthesize less pectin, such as mum4 (CITATION). Primary wall attachment to the columella appears identical to the wild type in live fly1-1 seed coat epidermal cells at 12 DPA (see Supplemental Figures 1I and 1J online). The unaltered development of fly1-1 seed coat cells is consistent with the normal surface morphology of dry mature seeds (Figures 2A and 2B). The monosaccharide composition of wild-type and fly1-1 whole seeds was determined using high-performance anion-exchange chromatography (HPAEC). The alcohol-insoluble residues (AIRs) prepared from fly1-1 and wild-type seeds contained similar monosaccharide levels (Table 1), consistent with seed coat mutants that primarily affect pectin modification rather than pectin biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION). Overall, the fly1-1 seed development and the whole seed HPAEC results suggest that FLY1 is not required for the biosynthesis of a major cell wall polysaccharide. We investigated if FLY1 affects mucilage extrusion and adhesion by analyzing the monosaccharide compositions of sequential mucilage extractions from wild-type and fly1-1 seeds. Although fly1-1 discs are not detached from the seed by gentle shaking, vigorous agitation using a vortex mixer can remove the majority of polygonal discs and the adherent mucilage (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Therefore, we extracted mucilage without discs by gently shaking seeds in water for 1 h, followed by mucilage including discs by vigorously shaking in water for an additional 2 h. HPAEC monosaccharide analysis of the first mucilage extraction showed a strong reduction of Rha and GalA in fly1-1 mucilage relative to the wild type, but the subsequent fly1-1 mucilage extraction contained almost twice as much Rha and GalA compared with the wild type (Table 1). All other monosaccharides detected are minor mucilage components, but showed similar trends to Rha and GalA. In addition to the sequential extractions, total mucilage amounts were extracted from water-hydrated seeds by adding NaOH to a final concentration 0.2 M and vortex mixing for 1 h. No RR-stained mucilage remained around wild-type and fly1-1 seeds (see Supplemental Figures 2K and 2L online). Wild-type and fly1-1 mucilage extracted by NaOH have similar monosaccharide compositions (see Supplemental Figure 2M online). Despite having whole seed and total mucilage monosaccharide compositions similar to the wild type, fly1-1 seeds display a reduced mucilage extractability in water. The fly1-1 mucilage capsule is more adherent than the wild type since vigorous shaking in water partially compensates for the reduced monosaccharide levels in the first fly1-1 water extraction. Similar to the wild type, fly1-1 seeds release a mucilage halo within 10 s of hydration in water (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). However, fly1-1 discs continue to be released after more than 60 s (see Supplemental Figure 3D online), suggesting that some fly1-1 cells have delayed mucilage release. Compared with the wild type, fly1-1 seeds have a more compact and adherent mucilage halo (Figures 3A and 3B, Table 1). To identify the cause of reduced mucilage expansion in the fly1-1 mutant, we examined the effects of hydrating seeds in a CaCl2 solution. Ca2+ ions are required for the formation of cross-links between unesterified HG blocks and can therefore strengthen the pectin gel matrix (CITATION). Interestingly, hydration of seeds directly in 50 mM CaCl2 almost completely impairs mucilage extrusion from the fly1-1 mutant but not from wild-type seeds, which show only a small reduction in mucilage halo size (Figures 3C and 3D). This suggests that pectins in fly1-1 mucilage can form more calcium cross-links than in the wild type. Although only a few CaCl2-treated fly1-1 seed epidermal cells release mucilage, all of these appear to have discs atop their compact mucilage columns (Figure 3D, inset). [[FIGURE]] In stark contrast with the addition of Ca2+ ions, cation chelators such as EDTA can disrupt cross-links between unesterified HG chains and facilitate seed mucilage extrusion (CITATION; CITATION). Hydration of mature seeds in 50 mM EDTA pH 8.0 completely rescued the fly1-1 mucilage extrusion defect, resulting in equally large wild-type and fly1-1 mucilage capsules without any visible discs (Figures 3E and 3F). RR-stained discs were not observed in EDTA-hydrated fly1-1 seeds (Figure 3F), indicating that EDTA may also rescue the primary wall detachment phenotype of this mutant. Surprisingly, unstained fly1-1 seeds hydrated directly in EDTA look identical to wild-type seeds and have primary cell wall fragments attached to all columellae (Figures 3G and 3H). S4B staining confirmed that the primary walls stay attached to columellae in fly1-1 seeds hydrated with EDTA (Figures 3I and 3J). Since pectin is stabilized at acidic pH and can be degraded at alkaline pH (CITATION), we investigated if the suppression of the fly1-1 mucilage defects is also pH dependent. The EDTA pH 6.0 treatment largely rescued the fly1-1 defects similar to EDTA pH 8.0 (see Supplemental Figures 4A to 4C online). Treatment with 50 mM HEPES buffer, which does not bind Ca2+, partially rescued the fly1-1 defects at pH 8.0 but not at pH 6.0 (see Supplemental Figures 4D to 4F online). Seeds treated with both EDTA and HEPES resembled the EDTA-treated seeds (see Supplemental Figures 4G to 4I online). Removal of Ca2+ by EDTA is largely sufficient to rescue the fly1-1 mucilage defects, but an alkaline pH also contributes to rescue the mutant phenotype. Since the fly1-1 defects are sensitive to the presence of Ca2+ ions, fly1-1 mucilage likely contains more unesterified GalA than wild-type mucilage. Immunolabeling of mature seeds with three anti-HG antibodies was conducted to determine if fly1-1 mucilage displays an altered pattern of methylesterification. The same image acquisition settings were used within each immunolabeling experiment. 2F4, an antibody that specifically binds unesterified blocks of HG cross-linked by Ca2+ ions (CITATION), only labeled primary cell wall material in wild-type seeds (Figure 4), including the outer tangential walls attached to columellae and the radial walls. Interestingly, fly1-1 seeds displayed 2F4 signal in both the primary cell wall and in the extruded mucilage. The abundance of 2F4 signal in fly1-1 mucilage, along its absence in wild-type mucilage, is consistent with increased amounts of unesterified HG in the mutant. [[FIGURE]] Two additional antibodies with broader specificities were also used to characterize the seed mucilage: JIM7, which binds to heavily (35 to 81%) methylesterified HG (CITATION), and JIM5, which binds partially (up to 40%) methylesterified HG (CITATION). JIM5 and JIM7 recognize partially overlapping domains of seed mucilage and both labeled larger regions of fly1-1 mucilage compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The results of all three antibodies are consistent with fly1-1 mucilage containing more unesterified HG than the wild type. To exclude the possibility that increased immunolabeling of fly1-1 mucilage results from higher epitope accessibility rather than larger amounts of unesterified HG, the DM of mucilage and whole seeds was determined using biochemical assays. The DM was calculated as a percentage molar ratio of methanol released after cell wall saponification (CITATION) to uronic acids measured using the m-hydroxydiphenyl assay (CITATION). Mucilage was extracted by vigorously shaking seeds in 50 mM EDTA for 1 h (see Supplemental Figures 2I and 2J online). Whereas wild-type and fly1-1 whole seeds contain pectin with a similar DM (Student’s t test, P = 0.60, >0.05), fly1-1 mucilage has a significantly lower DM than wild-type mucilage (Student’s t test, P = 0.02, <0.05; Figure 4F). The lower DM in fly1-1 mucilage corroborates the increased 2F4 immunolabeling of unesterified HG (Figures 4B and 4D) and accounts for the strong effects of CaCl2 and EDTA treatments on fly1-1 mucilage defects (Figure 3). Since the altered DM appears to be the primary defect of fly1-1 mucilage, the detached discs may result from increased binding of mucilage to the primary wall. Along with the normal DM and monosaccharide composition in fly1-1 whole seeds (Figure 4F, Table 1), these results suggest that FLY1 is required to establish the correct DM in seed mucilage. The fly1-1 phenotype was shown to segregate as a single recessive nuclear mutation (3 wild type:1 fly1; χ2 = 0.333; P > 0.5; n = 169). The position of the fly1-1 mutation was mapped to a 180-kb region containing 60 genes near the end of chromosome IV. We screened nearly 100 independent T-DNA insertions in 58 of the 60 candidate genes for mucilage defects. Five lines, fly1-2 (SALK_067290), fly1-3 (SALK_144822), fly1-4 (SALK_139156), fly1-5 (SALK_000015), and fly1-6 (SALK_062423), all contained mutations in At4g28370 (Figure 5A) and produced seeds that release compact mucilage halos and discs (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). PCR-based segregation analysis using these five independent lines indicated that the T-DNA insertions were responsible for the fly1 phenotype and were consistent with recessive loss-of-function mutations. [[FIGURE]] The At4g28370 gene encodes a previously uncharacterized protein belonging to the Really Interesting New Gene (RING) finger superfamily (TAIR 10; CITATION). Sequencing of At4g28370 in the fly1-1 background revealed a G-to-A transition, consistent with EMS mutation, at 3903 bp that changes the amino acid Trp (residue 460) to a stop codon. This early stop codon is predicted to truncate the peptide encoded by the FLY1 gene, resulting in the loss of the conserved RING domain. The fly1-2 and fly1-3 alleles were characterized in greater detail and were shown to be indistinguishable from fly1-1 with cryoSEM, S4B staining, and anti-HG immunolabeling (data not shown). Complementation tests between fly1-1, fly1-2, and fly1-3 failed to rescue the mucilage defects, consistent with mutations occurring in the same gene. In addition, we performed molecular complementation of fly1-1 with a FLY1pro:FLY1-YFP (Yellow Fluorescent Protein) construct, containing wild-type At4g28370 genomic DNA (from 1 kb upstream of the ATG site to, but not including, the stop codon) fused to citrine YFP in the pAD vector (CITATION). Multiple independent fly1-1 lines transformed with FLY1pro:FLY1-YFP produced seeds that resemble the wild type (Figure 5B), but fly1-1 plants transformed with empty pAD vector produced seeds that still released many discs (Figure 5C). Consistent with the seed mucilage defects of the fly1 mutant alleles, the Electronic Fluorescent Pictograph browser (eFP; CITATION) revealed very high FLY1 transcript levels in seeds relative to other Arabidopsis organs and preferential expression in the seed coat compared with the endosperm and embryo (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, FLY1 has one paralog in Arabidopsis (FLY2, At2g20650) and at least one ortholog in fungi, protists, green algae, mosses, and other vascular plant species with a sequenced genome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). FLY2 encodes a protein with 84.5% amino acid identity to FLY1 (CITATION). Although FLY2 transcripts are less abundant than FLY1 in developing seeds (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), FLY2 shows preferential expression in the seed coat compared with other seed tissues. To investigate if FLY2 is also involved in mucilage biosynthesis, we isolated homozygous fly2-1 (SALK_140887), fly2-2 (SALK_023653), fly2-3 (SALK_074297), fly2-4 (SAIL_515_C07), and fly2-5 (WiscDsLox412F02) T-DNA lines (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Hydrated fly2 seeds display wild-type RR staining (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), S4B staining, and 2F4, JIM5, and JIM7 immunolabeling (data not shown). The function of FLY1 and FLY2 may not be limited to the seed coat since RT-PCR analysis detected the highest transcript levels in stems (Figure 5D). According to multiple microarray data sets, both genes are most strongly expressed in stem and root xylem cells (see Supplemental Figure 8A online; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that they may play a role in vasculature development. However, neither fly1 nor fly2 mutants show any obvious defects in leaf, stem, or root morphology. In the GeneCAT database (CITATION), FLY1 and FLY2 are highly coexpressed with KNOTTED1-LIKE HOMEODOMAIN PROTEIN7 (KNAT7), which encodes a transcription factor shown to regulate cell wall biosynthesis in xylem and seed coat cells (CITATION; CITATION). Although knat7 mutants display an irregular xylem cell phenotype, both fly1 and fly2 xylem cells resembled the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 8B online). FLY1 contains an N-terminal signal peptide that targets the protein to the endomembrane system (CITATION) and is predicted to be cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum between amino acids 32 and 33. The consensus prediction of the ARAMEMNON plant membrane protein database is that FLY1 has seven transmembrane-spanning α-helices (Figure 5E; CITATION). The C-terminal end of the FLY1 protein contains a RING finger, which is conserved in all eukaryotes and coordinates two zinc ions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The predicted ARAMEMNON topology of the FLY1 protein indicates that the C-terminal RING domain faces the cytosol. Both FLY1 and FLY2 have a RING domain with a C3H2C3 motif (abbreviated RING-H2; CITATION) based on the arrangement of the eight zinc binding Cys and His residues (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). Interestingly, the ortholog of FLY1 (28% amino acid identity) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is TRANSMEMBRANE UBIQUITIN LIGASE1 (TUL1), a Golgi-localized E3 ligase that tags misfolded membrane proteins with ubiquitin for transport to endosomes and degradation in the vacuole (CITATION). TUL1 has a C-terminal RING-H2 domain similar to FLY1 and FLY2 (see Supplemental Figure 9 online), along with an N-terminal signal peptide and seven α-helices (CITATION). To determine if FLY1 functions as an E3 ligase, we conducted an in vitro ubiquitination assay (CITATION). Ubiquitination results from the sequential action of a ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1), a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2), and a ubiquitin ligase (E3) and can regulate a protein’s stability, activity, or location (CITATION; CITATION). Since recombinant expression and purification of transmembrane proteins is challenging, we expressed only the soluble C terminus of FLY1 containing the RING domain fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST-Fly1RING). The complete in vitro ubiquitination assay contained ubiquitin and three recombinant Arabidopsis proteins: E1 enzyme 6xHis-UBA1, E2 enzyme 6xHis-UBC8, and E3 enzyme GST-Fly1RING. The polyubiquitin smear, detected by immunoblot analysis using an antiubiquitin antibody in the complete assay (Figure 5F), demonstrates that the FLY1 RING domain is capable of mediating polyubiquitination. Omission of the E2 enzyme, the E3 ligase, or the ubiquitin components abolished formation of polyubiquitinated species as expected (Figure 5F). The E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of FLY1 and the lower pectin DM of fly1 mucilage suggest that FLY1 may positively regulate PMTs or negatively regulate PMEs. While putative PMTs are membrane bound (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), most PMEs are soluble or have a signal peptide that is cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum (CITATION) and therefore do not have cytosolic Lys residues, which can be ubiquitinated (CITATION). Thus, we investigated if PMEs coexpressed with FLY1 have membrane domains and putative ubiquitination sites. PME6 (At1g23200) and PME16 (At2g43050) are preferentially expressed in the seed coat and are coexpressed with FLY1 in GeneCAT (CITATION) and ATTED-II databases (CITATION). Unlike most PMEs, PME6 and PME16 are predicted to have an internal α-helix near the N terminus and at least one cytosolic Lys residue (CITATION). The expression and subcellular localization of FLY1 was analyzed using the previously described FLY1pro:FLY1-YFP construct that complements the fly1-1 mutation (Figure 5B). We used identical image acquisition settings for the different tissues and developmental stages presented within each figure. Multiple independent plants containing the FLY1pro:FLY1-YFP transgene displayed strong YFP fluorescence in the seed coat epidermis (Figure 6; see Supplemental Figure 10 online). FLY1-YFP expression begins at 4 DPA, is highest at 7 DPA, when mucilage synthesis and secretion is at its peak, and decreases by 10 DPA, at the start of columella deposition (see Supplemental Figures 10A to 10F online). No FLY1-YFP signal was observed in dissected embryos at 7 DPA (see Supplemental Figure 10H online) or in tissues more suitable for cell imaging such as leaves and roots. [[FIGURE]] FLY1-YFP fusion proteins primarily localize in a small number of intracellular punctae in seed coat epidermal cells and are not observed in the mucilage pocket or in the primary cell wall (Figure 6). At 7 DPA, FLY1-YFP fluorescence also appears in several larger compartments (Figures 6D and 6J, arrows). Since TUL1 is known to be Golgi localized (CITATION), we compared the localization of FLY1-YFP with the distribution of the Golgi marker α-2,6-sialyltransferase (ST) tagged with red fluorescent protein (RFP; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). ST-RFP labels a large number of intracellular punctae (Figures 6B and 6E), which are in close proximity to FLY1-YFP bodies and partially overlap with a few of them (Figures 6A to 6F, arrowheads). Surprisingly, however, the majority of FLY1-YFP compartments do not colocalize with the Golgi marker ST-RFP at either 4 or 7 DPA (Figures 6C and 6F). We also analyzed the subcellular localization of the trans-Golgi network/early endosome (TGN/EE) marker VHAa1-RFP (CITATION), which is distinct from the Golgi marker ST-RFP (CITATION). Although a few FLY1-YFP punctae partially colocalize with VHAa1-RFP in seed coat epidermal cells at 4 and 7 DPA (Figures 6G to 6L, arrowheads), the localization of FLY1-YFP is largely distinct from that of the TGN/EE. The fluorescent markers tested were excluded from seed coat mucilage pockets and the amyloplasts (Figure 6). We were unable to stain seeds expressing FLY1-YFP with the endocytic tracer FM4-64 (CITATION) due to a lack of dye uptake by developing seed coat cells. Seed epidermal cells pretreated with 10% DMSO to increase permeability were also not affected by Brefeldin A, a drug commonly used in secretion and endocytosis studies (CITATION). However, 7 DPA seed coat epidermal cells treated with wortmannin, a drug that induces the fusion of late endosomes/multivesicular bodies/prevacuolar compartments (TLEs/MVBs/PVCs) in plants (CITATION), showed a greater number of large FLY1-YFP bodies than control seeds (see Supplemental Figures 11A and 11B online). Wortmannin treatment increased the ratio of large to small FLY1-YFP bodies from 2 to 39% in one biological replicate and from 13 to 28% in a second biological replicate (see Supplemental Figures 11C and 11D online).
!~MM~! The Col-2 ecotype was propagated from a Columbia-0 (Col-0) seed through five generations of single seed descent by Shauna Somerville. The fly1-1 line was isolated from an EMS-mutagenized Col-2 population and was backcrossed to Col-2 four times to remove background EMS mutations. The fly1-1 mutant line (backcrossed twice to Col-2) was crossed to the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype to generate an F2 mapping population. Map-based cloning was conducted using insertion/deletion polymorphisms between Col-0 and Landsberg erecta (CITATION). Col-0 seeds bearing SALK T-DNA insertions in exons (CITATION), 5′ untranslated regions (UTRs), or introns (in decreasing order of preference) were selected using the SIGnAL T-DNA Express site (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) and obtained from the ABRC in Columbus, Ohio. Seeds were germinated on plates with AT medium (CITATION) and 7% (w/v) agar, and seedlings were transferred to soil (Sunshine Mix 4; SunGro) after 7 to 10 d. Plants were grown with continuous fluorescent illumination of 80 to 140 μE m−2 s−1 at 20 to 22°C. Developing seeds were staged as previously described (CITATION). Developing seeds were fixed using high-pressure freezing and freeze substitution, embedded in Spurr’s resin, and sectioned according to previous methods (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Well-preserved seed coats were examined by light microscopy. Mature dry seeds were hydrated in distilled water, 50 mM CaCl2, or 50mM EDTA, pH 8.0, for 1 to 2 h, rinsed with once with water, and stained with 0.01% (w/v) RR (Sigma-Aldrich) for 30 to 60 min while shaking on a rotator. Bright-field micrographs of stained samples were taken with QCapture software and a digital camera (QImaging) equipped on a Zeiss AxioSkop 2 upright light microscope (Carl Zeiss). Contrast of unstained seeds was enhanced with phase contrast or differential interference contrast. The effect of buffer pH on fly1-1 mucilage extrusion was tested using 50 mM EDTA and 50 mM HEPES buffers ranging from pH 6.0 to 8.0. Seeds were shaken in buffer for 1 h before rinsing with water and RR staining. Live, developing seeds at 12 DPA were imaged using transmitted light on a Perkin-Elmer Ultraview VoX Spinning Disk Confocal system. For cellulose staining, seeds were shaken in water for 2 h and then mixed with 0.01% (w/v) S4B (Sigma-Aldrich Rare Chemical Library) and 50 to 150 mM NaCl for 1 h (CITATION; CITATION). Seeds were rinsed twice with distilled water and imaged using a 561-nm laser on either a Zeiss 510 Meta laser scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss) or a Perkin-Elmer Ultraview VoX spinning disk confocal system. Xylem cells were analyzed in stem base cross sections stained with one drop of saturated phloroglucinol (Sigma-Aldrich) in 20% HCl solution. Whole-seed immunolabeling was conducted according to a published method (CITATION). The specificities of JIM5, JIM7 (CarboSource), and 2F4 (PlantProbes) primary antibodies have been extensively described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The 2F4 antibody (PlantProbes) does not work with the conventional phosphate buffer (CITATION) and was used with the following buffer: 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.2, 0.5 mM CaCl2, and 150 mM NaCl. Goat-anti-rat secondary antibody conjugated to AlexaFluor488 was used against JIM5 and JIM7, while goat-anti-mouse conjugated to AlexaFluor488 (Molecular Probes, Invitrogen) was used against 2F4. The protocol was performed without primary antibody as a negative control. Seeds were imaged using a 488-nm laser (antibody fluorescence) and 561-nm laser (seed intrinsic fluorescence, background) on a Zeiss 510 Meta laser scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss) or a Perkin-Elmer Ultraview VoX spinning disk confocal system. All confocal micrographs were processed with ImageJ (CITATION). Images containing signals from multiple optical stacks were rendered using the Z-project maximum intensity method. Dry seeds were mounted on stubs, coated with gold-palladium in a SEMPrep2 sputter coater (Nanotech), and examined with a Hitachi S4700 scanning electron microscope (Hitachi High-Technologies). For cryo-scanning electron microscopy, seeds were hydrated with a drop of distilled water and were quickly transferred to stubs topped with Tissue-Tek mounting medium (Sakura Finetek) and small squares of filter paper to absorb excess water. Once mounted on the stubs, seeds were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Samples were analyzed under high vacuum at liquid nitrogen temperatures with a Hitachi S-4700 field emission scanning electron microscope (Hitachi High-Technologies) equipped with a Leica VCT 100 cryo transfer system and cryo stage control (Leica). Light and electron micrographs were processed and measured with ImageJ (CITATION). Image panels were made using Photoshop (Adobe Systems). The average weight of Col-2 and fly1-1 seeds was determined by weighing three replicates of 100 seeds for each genotype. For sequential mucilage extractions, four technical replicates of 25 mg of Col-2 or fly1-1 seeds (exact weight recorded) were mixed with 1.4 mL of distilled water and 10 μL of 5 mg/mL d-erythritol (internal standard). These samples were gently shaken using a tube rotator for 1 h. The mucilage in the supernatant (1 mL) of the first extraction was transferred to a glass tube and dried at 60°C under nitrogen gas. The same seeds were then rinsed twice with 700 μL of water and shaken vigorously with a vortex mixer on the highest setting for 2 h, in 1.4 mL of water and 10 μL of 5 mg/mL d-erythritol. The supernatant was transferred to a new glass tube and dried as described for the first extraction. Whole seeds, sugar standards dissolved in water, and the dried mucilage samples were processed according to published methods (CITATION; CITATION). Mucilage was extracted by vigorously shaking 5 mg of seeds (exact weight measured) with a vortex mixer at high speed in 300 μL of 50 mM EDTA for 60 min. After the seeds settled for 2 min, 100 μL of supernatant was transferred to a new tube and saponified with 0.25 M NaOH for 60 min on an orbital shaker. The reaction was neutralized with 0.25 M HCl (to give a total volume of 300 µL) and centrifuged for 5 min at 10,000g. Fifty microliters of the supernatant was transferred to a 96-well plate for the methanol release after saponification assay (CITATION), using 0.5 units of alcohol oxidase (Sigma-Aldrich A2404) enzyme per sample instead of 0.03 units. Absorbance was measured at 412 nm and quantified using a methanol standard curve (CITATION). Forty microliters of the remaining 250 μL mucilage saponification solution was transferred to a 96-well plate, and the uronic acid assay was performed as described by CITATION. Absorbance was measured at 525 nm, before and after addition of the dye, and quantified using a d-(+)-galacturonic acid monohydrate (Sigma-Aldrich) standard curve. For whole seed analysis, 5 mg of seeds were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a find powder using pestles in 1.7-mL tubes. Ground seeds were washed twice with 500 μL of 70% ethanol on an orbital shaker and centrifuged for 2 min at 10,000g. Ethanol was removed again and the pellet was dried under nitrogen gas at 60°C. One additional methanol-chloroform (1:1) wash and three acetone washes were performed under similar conditions. After the final wash, samples were dried under nitrogen gas at 60°C and the cell wall pellet was saponified using 200 µL of 0.25 M NaOH for 60 min on an orbital shaker. Samples were neutralized with 200 µL of 0.25 M HCl and centrifuged for 5 min at 10,000g. Fifty microliters of the supernatant was used for the 96-well plate methanol assay (CITATION). Background corrections for methanol assay were made using mucilage and whole seed samples that were not saponified. The whole seed sugars in the leftover saponification reaction were precipitated by adding 1 mL of 100% ethanol, vortexing briefly, and centrifuging for 2 min at 10,000g. The supernatant was removed and the cell wall pellet was dried under nitrogen gas at 60°C. The cell wall was fully resuspended in 1 mL distilled water. Each sample was sonicated for 20 s with a Branson Sonifier 150 (Branson Ultrasonics), setting 3, to create a homogenous cell wall suspension. Twenty-microliter aliquots of each sample, diluted with 20 µL water, were used for the 96-well plate uronic acid assay (CITATION). DNA was isolated from rosette leaves using a published one-step protocol (CITATION), except that samples were quickly ground using 1.0-mm zirconia/silica beads (Biospec Products) and a Precellys 24 tissue homogenizer (Bertin Technologies) (CITATION) instead of homogenization using plastic pestles. The supernatant was used immediately (1 μL of DNA solution in 20 μL PCR reaction) or was stored at −20°C until needed. SALK T-DNA insertions were genotyped by PCR using the LBb1.3 insert-specific primer (5′-ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC-3′) and gene-specific primers selected using the SALK T-DNA Primer Design tool (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html; see Supplemental Table 1 online). All genes in this study were first analyzed using The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://Arabidopsis.org; CITATION). The SignalP 4.0 server (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP) was used for signal peptide analysis (CITATION). Transmembrane α-helices were predicted using the ARAMEMNON database (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de), which integrates the predictions of 18 individual programs (CITATION). FLY1 homologs identified using BLAST programs (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi) were verified using the Phytozome (http://www.phytozome.net; CITATION), PLAZA (http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/plaza; CITATION), and the InParanoid 7 databases (http://InParanoid.sbc.su.se; CITATION). Functional domains were identified using the InterProScan (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/pfa/iprscan; CITATION) and PROSITE databases (http://prosite.expasy.org; CITATION). FLY1, FLY2, and TUL1 protein sequences were aligned using ClustalW2 (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalw2; CITATION). The soluble C-terminal FLY1 region (after the seventh transmembrane domain and before the stop codon) containing the RING domain was amplified using a left primer (LP) plus EcoRI site (5′-tgaGAATTCCTCACGCTGCTTTGTTCCCCGTCAGA-3′) and a right primer (RP) plus XhoI site (5′-tatCTCGAGCTATGCTGGAGGAAGAGACCGCCGA-3′) using Col-2 seed coat cDNA. The resulting 243-bp Fly1RING amplicon was fused with GST using an EcoRI-XhoI cassette on the pGEX-4T-3 vector (GE Healthcare). The plasmid was propagated in Escherichia coli DH5α cells, verified by sequencing, and transformed in E. coli BL21(DE3)-pLysS for protein expression. A 50 mL culture was grown until OD600 = 0.5, when it was induced with 0.5 mM Isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and grown for additional 4 h. Cells were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in 2 mL lysis buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, 0.01% [v/v] Triton-X, and one protease inhibitor tablet [Roche]) and sonicated three times at 20% amplitude and 20 mA for 30 s. Lysate was cleared by centrifugation at 12,000g for 15 min at 4°C followed by filtration through a 0.45 mM filter. For purification, 200 μL of 50% glutathione agarose slurry (Sigma-Aldrich) was added to the cleared lysate and incubated under rotation at 4°C for 2 h. Sample was washed four times with 1 mL wash buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, and 0.01% [v/v] Triton-X) and purified protein eluted in 100 mL elution buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.01% [v/v] Triton-X, and 15 mM reduced glutathione); glycerol was added to a final concentration of 40% (v/v). The 6xHis-UBC8 and 6xHis-UBA1 Arabidopsis thaliana recombinant proteins were expressed in E. coli BL21-AI (Invitrogen) and induced with 0.2% (w/v) arabinose at an OD600 = 0.5. Proteins were purified on a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) column according to the manufacturer's instructions (Qiagen) with lysis buffer (50 mM NaH2PO4, pH 8.0, 300 mM NaCl, and 10 mM imidazole). In wash buffer, the concentration of imidazole was increased to 20 mM and the elution buffer contained 250 mM imidazole. Protein purity was analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining, and concentration was measured by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). The integrity of fusion proteins was checked by immunoblot analysis using anti-GST and anti-His antibodies (both Sigma-Aldrich). In vitro ubiquitination assays were performed as previously described in CITATION. In 30-μL reactions (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM ATP, 0.05 mM ZnCl2, 0.2 mM DTT, 10 mM phosphocreatine, 0.1 units of phosphocreatine kinase), 100 ng E1 (6xHis-UBA1), 250 ng E2 (6xHis-UBC8), 2 µg ubiquitin (BostonBiochem), and 250 ng GST-Fly1RING were added for the complete reaction. For control reactions, the E2, E3, or ubiquitin components were omitted. The reactions were incubated at 30°C for 2 h and stopped by addition of 3.3 μL 10× reducing loading buffer. Samples were separated by SDS-PAGE, blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes, and probed with anti-ubiquitin (Enzo Life Sciences). Expression patterns in specific Arabidopsis organs and cell types were visualized with the eFP browser (http://bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi; CITATION) and corroborated with GENEVESTIGATOR (https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/plant.jsp; CITATION). For RT-PCR, RNA was extracted from Col-2 tissues using the RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA quantification was performed using a NanoDrop 8000 (Thermo Scientific). Five hundred nanograms of total RNA treated with DNaseI (Fermentas) was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis along with iScript RT supermix (Bio-Rad). RT-PCR was conducted using a typical PCR reaction containing Taq polymerase (Invitrogen) and gene-specific pairs of intron-spanning primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Amplicons of ∼200 bp were expected after intron splicing. Transcript levels were analyzed after 23 amplification cycles, and GAPC was used as a loading control. FLY1 was amplified from Col-2 DNA using Phusion High-Fidelity DNA polymerase (Thermo Fisher Scientific), an LP plus a KpnI site (5′-gcgGGTACCtctcacaaacaaacatttctcactc-3′) and an RP including an XhoI site (5′-tactcgagTGCTGGAGGAAGAGACCGCCGACAA-3′). The 5156-bp FLY1pro:FLY1 amplicon starts 690 bp upstream of the 5′ UTR of FLY1 (123 bp away from the At4g28365 5′ UTR, its upstream neighbor) and includes the complete FLY1 coding region, except for the translation stop codon. Citrine YFP was selected due to its superior photostability in the acidic environment of the apoplast. The FLY1pro:FLY amplicon was introduced as a KpnI-XhoI cassette into a pAD vector with Citrine YFP (CITATION). The plasmid was propagated in E. coli DH5α cells and verified using BglII restriction enzyme digestion and sequencing. The FLY1pro:FLY-YFP construct was introduced in Arabidopsis fly1-1 plants by the floral dip method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 pMP90 plus pSOUP (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected by spraying the leaves of plants germinated on soil with 200 mM Basta herbicide solution every 2 to 3 d for 2 weeks. Seeds were removed from developing siliques of Basta-resistant transgenic plants. FLY1-YFP and ST-RFP/VHAa1-RFP were excited using 514- and 561-nm lasers, respectively, on a Perkin-Elmer Ultraview VoX spinning disk confocal system. FLY1-YFP expression in dissected seed coats, embryos, and other tissues was examined with a ×20 oil immersion objective, while subcellular localization of the FLY1-YFP signal was investigated with a ×63 glycerol immersion objective. The controls used were untransformed Col-2 and fly1-1 seeds and transgenic lines expressing a single fluorescent construct. In addition, 7 DPA seeds expressing FLY1pro:FLY-YFP were dissected from siliques and treated for 2 h with 20 μM wortmannin (diluted in water from a 1 mM DMSO stock) or with water containing an equivalent amount of DMSO, before imaging. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under accession numbers At4g28370 (FLY1) and At2g20650 (FLY2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Analysis of fly1-1 Mucilage Extrusion and Primary Wall Attachment. Supplemental Figure 2. Mucilage Extractions and Total Monosaccharide Composition. Supplemental Figure 3. Time-Course Analysis of Mucilage Release from Seeds upon Hydration. Supplemental Figure 4. Analysis of the Effect of Buffer pH on fly1-1 Mucilage Defects. Supplemental Figure 5. Immunolabeling of Partially Methylesterified HG in Seeds. Supplemental Figure 6. Analysis of fly1 and fly2 Mucilage Extrusion. Supplemental Figure 7. FLY2 Gene Structure and Mutations. Supplemental Figure 8. FLY1 and FLY2 May Be Involved in Xylem Development. Supplemental Figure 9. Alignment of the RING-H2 Domains of FLY1, FLY2, and TUL1. Supplemental Figure 10. Analysis of FLY1pro:FLY1-YFP Expression in Developing Seeds. Supplemental Figure 11. Wortmannin Induces Fusions of FLY1-YFP Punctae. Supplemental Table 1. Gene-Specific Primers Used for T-DNA Genotyping and RT-PCR Analysis.
