!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! To gain an insight into the assembly and structure of the plant exocyst, we determined the interactions between different exocyst subunits using a matrix‐based yeast two‐hybrid assay. Interactions between the exocyst subunits SEC3A, SEC5A, SEC6, SEC8, SEC10, SEC15A, SEC15B, EXO70H7, EXO70A1, EXO84B and EXO84C were determined. In the self‐activation assessment of the baits, SEC3A, SEC10 and EXO84C showed very strong self‐activation; therefore, they could not be used as baits in the interaction test. Six pairs of strong interactions were detected for which all three reporter genes were activated: SEC3A interacts with EXO70 A1 and SEC5A, SEC15B interacts with both EXO84B and EXO84C, EXO70A1 interacts with EXO84C, and EXO70H7 interacts with EXO84B (Table 1; Fig. S1). The LacZ reporter gene was activated for two pairs only: SEC5A with SEC6 and SEC5A with EXO84C; hence, these putative weak interactions need to be confirmed by alternative methods. We decided to focus on SEC3, because of its prominent role in the yeast exocyst complex.  EXO70A1 SEC5A Arabidopsis possesses two genes that encode SEC3, SEC3A (At1 g47550) and SEC3B (At1 g47560), which are tandemly duplicated and share 97% sequence identity at the protein level. The ATH1 whole‐genome chip is unable to discriminate between SEC3A and SEC3B expression. However, expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and a search against the Arabidopsis MPSS database revealed that both genes are expressed (Chong et al., CITATION). We determined the temporal and spatial expression pattern of SEC3A by expression of a SEC3A genomic‐GUS gene fusion. Six independent transgenic plants expressing the SEC3A genomic sequence fused to GUS were examined histologically for GUS activity. In light‐grown seedlings, SEC3A was expressed in cotyledons and root, but not in hypocotyls, and highly expressed in shoot apical meristems (Fig. 1a). In roots, SEC3A was highly expressed in the root tip, the vasculature (Fig. 1b) and lateral root primordia (Fig. 1b). Unlike in younger seedlings, SEC3A expression was observed in the hypocotyls of older seedlings (Fig. 1d). In both expanding and expanded rosette leaves, SEC3A expression was detected (Fig. 1e). In flowers, SEC3A expression was not detected in petals and sepals (Fig. 1f), but strong SEC3A expression was detected in the stigma (Fig. 1g), unfertilized ovules (Fig. 1g) and pollen (Fig. 1h). In embryos, SEC3A expression was observed from the early heart stage onwards (Fig. 1i–k). Thus, SEC3A expresses in various tissues of both seedlings and mature plants and preferentially in tissues containing dividing and expanding cells, such as the shoot apical meristem, root tip, lateral root primordia and developing embryos.  [[FIGURE]] Using a PCR‐based genotyping approach, we identified a SALK line (SALK_145185) harboring a T‐DNA insertion in the first intron of the SEC3A (At1 g47550) gene (Fig. 2a). We performed PCR amplification of the SEC3A wild‐type allele with primers flanking the T‐DNA insertions and amplification of the mutant sec3a allele left and right borders with one primer flanking the T‐DNA insertion and the T‐DNA left‐border primer LBa1 and one primer flanking the T‐DNA insertion and the R‐DNA right‐border primer JMRB1. All PCRs resulted in amplification products of the expected size, indicating that the T‐DNA insertion caused no DNA rearrangements. We identified only heterozygous and wild‐type plants (Fig. S2). The sec3a allele segregated in a ratio of 1 : 2 in progeny of selfed heterozygous plants (30.0% wild‐type : 70.0% heterozygous; n = 350 plants (Table 2)). As no homozygous plants were identified and the 1 : 2 segregation ratio of the sec3a allele is typical for embryo lethality, we tested immature siliques from heterozygous sec3a plants for the presence of white or otherwise abnormal seeds. Green and white seeds within single siliques were observed, whereas only green seeds were present in the immature siliques from wild‐type plants (Fig. 2b). As white seeds indicate embryo lethality (Meinke & Sussex, CITATION), we scored the number of white seeds from 10 siliques from three individual plants heterozygous for sec3a. In all these lines, c. 25% of seeds were white, suggesting that the sec3a mutation is recessively embryo lethal (Fig. 2c). The mature seeds from heterozygous and wild‐type plants were also compared, showing a mixture of dark‐brown, small, wrinkled seeds and normal light‐brown seeds in heterozygous plants and only normal light‐brown seeds in the wild‐type (Fig. 2d). We tested germination by placing wrinkled seeds and normal seeds on half‐strength MS plates to score the germination rate. The normal seeds all germinated, but none of the wrinkled seeds had germinated after 1 wk (n = 300; Fig. 2e). To determine whether, in addition to embryo lethality, the sec3a mutation causes gametophytic defects, we analyzed the progeny of heterozygous SEC3A/sec3a lines and performed reciprocal crosses between SEC3A/sec3a and wild‐type plants. In the progeny of SEC3A/sec3a, the sec3a allele segregated as expected (Table 2). In the progeny of the reciprocal crosses, the transmission of the sec3a allele was not affected when SEC3A/sec3a was used as either pollen donor or pollen receiver (Table 2), demonstrating that gametophytic transmission of the sec3a allele is normal. Thus, SEC3A appears to be essential for plant development.  [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the white seeds in the progeny of plants heterozygous for sec3a were harboring aborted embryos, we investigated embryo development in these seeds. From the two‐cell stage to the 32‐cell stage, we could not discriminate between mutant and wild‐type embryos. Unlike normally developing embryos, which become heart shaped 4 d after fertilization (Fig. 3a,b), the mutant embryos failed to undergo this developmental step (Fig. 3e,f). Mutant embryos from siliques in which the wild‐type embryos had developed to the cotyledonary stage (Fig. 3c,d) were still globular, although their size and the number of cells had increased beyond the normal size and number of cells of globular embryos, and the cells of the mutant embryo appeared more rounded (Fig. 3g,h). To investigate the defects in mutant embryos in more detail, we stained the cell walls with Calcofluor White. Microscopic analysis revealed several aspects: although the suspensor looked normal, the mutant embryo proper lacked any polarity, cells were rounded and cell division occurred in random directions, whereas, in heart‐shaped wild‐type embryos of the same age, an epidermal cell layer had clearly developed (Fig. 4). Thus, although cell division is not inhibited, aberrant embryos apparently lack any form of differentiation and polarity.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Genetic complementation of the sec3a mutant was performed by introducing the full‐length SEC3A genomic DNA, driven by the endogenous SEC3A promoter (ProSEC3A:SEC3A), into plants heterozygous for sec3a. In addition, we introduced a similar construct with the GFP coding region fused to the 5′ end of the SEC3A genomic sequence (ProSEC3A:SEC3A‐GFP). We scored for white seeds in two T1 lines carrying the ProSEC3A:SEC3A construct to assess the percentage of seeds in which embryo development was arrested. In contrast with uncomplemented T1 plants that carried c. 25% white seeds, both lines had a strongly reduced number of abnormal (white) seeds (2.18% (n = 1008 seeds from 14 siliques) and 1.55% (n = 645 seeds from 10 siliques), respectively). Transgenic T1 plants heterozygous for the sec3a allele complemented with the ProSEC3A:SEC3A‐GFP construct showed percentages of white seeds below 2% (n = 7 independent transformants). The percentages of white seeds observed were lower than that expected in T1 plants carrying one complementation construct (6.25%), indicating that the T1 plants carry more than one complementation construct. Indeed, backcrossing of these lines with the Col‐0 wild‐type resulted in progeny with higher percentages of white seeds in five of the seven independent lines and, after backcrossing to Col‐0 twice, followed by selfing, we were able to select four lines that showed c. 6.25% of white seeds of lines complemented with ProSEC3A:SEC3A and ProSEC3A:SEC3A‐GFP. Approximately 75% of the seedlings of these backcrossed lines carried the hygromycin resistance marker of the complementation construct. Both the complemented T1 and the backcrossed lines developed normally and contained normally developed embryos, demonstrating that the mutant phenotype is caused by the sec3a T‐DNA insertion allele and that both ProSEC3A:SEC3A and ProSEC3A:SEC3A‐GFP fully complement the mutant phenotype.  We determined the subcellular localization of SEC3A in transgenic T2 plants carrying the SEC3A‐GFP fusion construct, selected as described above, in developing embryos, root hairs and root epidermal cells. Root hairs expand by tip growth; their expansion is extremely polarized and occurs exclusively at the tip. Root epidermal cell expansion is also polar, but occurs over the whole cell facets parallel to the elongation direction of the root. We refer to this type of cell expansion as axial growth (also called intercalary or diffuse growth; for a review, see Ketelaar & Emons, CITATION). We studied SEC3A‐GFP localization in both expanding and fully grown cells.  In the embryos, SEC3A‐GFP accumulated at the periphery of the cells and stained the cytoplasm weakly (Fig. 5). In addition to the SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence, amyloplasts produced autofluorescence. This fluorescence was also present in wild‐type embryos (Fig. 5a,c). Because we observed plasmolysis and relocation of the SEC3A‐GFP signal within 5 min after embryo isolation, we shifted our focus to root hairs and root epidermal cells that are more suitable for live cell imaging. In both of these cell types, we observed SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence evenly distributed throughout the cytoplasm and brightly fluorescent cell compartments, which are clearly visible in Fig. 5(i). At the plasma membrane of both cell types, SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence had a punctate distribution (Fig. 5e,h), similar to that observed for the other exocyst subunits SEC6, SEC8, EXO70A1 and EXO84b (Fendrych et al., CITATION). We did not observe clear differences in the density of the puncta in expanding and fully grown cells (Fig. 5j). As the tip of growing root hairs harbors many vesicles and is the location of cell elongation, it was important to determine the density of SEC3A puncta at this location. As it is technically challenging to measure the density of puncta in the surface of the dome of the root hair tip, because of its curvature, we measured the fluorescence intensities of membrane regions in median confocal sections (Fig. 5i). Cell expansion is fastest at the side of the dome and is slower at the tip of the dome (Shaw et al., CITATION). We measured the fluorescence intensities in the plasma membrane of these two areas and compared these intensities with the fluorescence intensity of the plasma membrane of the tube (Fig. 5k). Surprisingly, we did not observe significant differences in fluorescence intensity between the different membrane areas of the expanding tip and the membrane area of the non‐expanding root hair tube (P = 0.40 between the tube and the side of the dome, and P = 0.11 between the tube and the tip; ANOVA with paired samples). Thus, SEC3A puncta at the plasma membrane do not preferentially accumulate in expanding areas of cells. This suggests that SEC3A is not specifically recruited to polar exocytosis events in interphase cells.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the behavior over time of the SEC3A‐GFP puncta at the plasma membrane, we photobleached the SEC3A‐GFP that was already present and analyzed the recovery of fluorescence over time. We studied the behavior of individual SEC3A‐GFP puncta at the plasma membrane of tubes of growing (Fig. 6a) and fully grown (Fig 6b) root hairs, and the plasma membrane of the outer periclinal face of expanding (Fig. 6c; Movie S1) and fully grown (Fig. 6d; Movie S2) root epidermal cells. In all of these cell types, new, immobile fluorescent SEC3A‐GFP puncta appeared at the plasma membrane after photobleaching. When puncta first appeared, their fluorescence was low but detectable. Over time, their fluorescence intensity increased until it reached a maximum intensity, whereafter the fluorescence intensity gradually decreased until it disappeared completely (Fig. 6e). The characteristic behavior of SEC3A‐GFP puncta is illustrated in Fig. 6(f).  [[FIGURE]] To check whether there are differences in the lifetime of the puncta between different cell types and/or between growing and fully grown cells, we measured the lifetimes of the SEC3A‐GFP puncta in growing and fully grown root epidermal cells and root hair tubes (Fig. 6g). We collected image sequences with 2‐s intervals between sequential images, determined the amount of frames during which each punctum was present and used these values to calculate an average lifetime. Within individual cells, lifetimes were highly variable, ranging from 2 to 40 s. The average lifetime of SEC3A‐GFP puncta was 6.3 ± 2.7 s in the tube region of growing root hairs (n = 81 from three cells), 6.6 ± 3.4 s in the tube region of fully grown root hairs (n = 113 from five cells), 6.7 ± 3.6 s in expanding root epidermal cells (n = 86 from four cells) and 12.6 ± 8.3 s in fully grown root epidermal cells (n = 127 from five cells). The average SEC3A‐GFP punctum lifetime in the growing root hairs was no different from that in fully grown root hairs (P = 0.49). The lifetime of puncta in expanding and expanded root epidermal cells is significantly different (P = 0.001), which can be accounted for by the small population (10.2%) of puncta with long lifetimes (> 24 s) in fully expanded root epidermal cells (Fig. 6g).  To test whether SEC3A is delivered to the plasma membrane by the Golgi system, we tested whether it associates with the vesicle pool in the apex of expanding root hairs by staining with the amphiphilic styryl dye FM4‐64. It is assumed that FM4‐64 decorates membranes of endocytotic vesicles rapidly and also that exocytotic vesicles are decorated rapidly (van Gisbergen et al., CITATION; Griffing, CITATION). We did not see any SEC3A accumulation in the vesicle‐rich region in the apex of growing root hairs other than the fluorescence that is present throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 7). From this, we conclude that SEC3A‐GFP does not localize to FM4‐64‐labeled vesicles. This suggests that SEC3A recruitment to the plasma membrane is not mediated by the Golgi system.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether SEC3A recruitment to the plasma membrane depends on exocytosis, we applied BFA to growing root hairs and measured the density and lifetime of SEC3A‐GFP puncta at the plasma membrane. BFA is a macrocyclic lactone of fungal origin that inhibits Golgi‐based secretion in plants (reviewed in Robinson et al., CITATION). We applied a concentration range of BFA to growing root hairs. The lowest concentration of BFA that caused complete root hair growth inhibition after 2 h was 5 μg ml−1. Occasionally, swollen root hair tips were observed, but root hairs were still alive and cytoplasmic streaming continued. The inhibition of root hair growth showed that treatment with 5 μg ml−1 BFA successfully inhibits Golgi‐based secretion in root hairs. Under these conditions, SEC3A‐GFP still localized as puncta to the plasma membrane throughout the root hair tube. However, the density of the SEC3A‐GFP puncta was reduced dramatically after 2 h of treatment compared with that in untreated cells (0.23 ± 0.05 μm−2 compared with 0.58 ± 0.67 μm−2 before treatment; P < 0.001; Fig. 8a). After 4 h of BFA treatment, the density had decreased even further (0.09 ± 0.04 μm−2; Fig. 8a). The SEC3A‐GFP puncta still showed their characteristic increase and decrease in fluorescence intensity during their lifetime, but the average lifetime was increased when compared with control cells (10.0 ± 4.3 s in BFA‐treated cells (2 h) and 6.3 ± 2.7 s in control cells; P < 0.001; Fig. 8b). The lifetime of SEC3A‐GFP puncta did not change after longer BFA treatment (10.1 ± 5.1 s after 4 h (P = 0.93); Fig. 8b). Thus, the disruption of exocytotic vesicle production causes a decrease in recruitment and longer lifetimes of SEC3A‐GFP puncta.  [[FIGURE]] As the insertion of CESA complexes into the plasma membrane, which is likely to be an exocytotic event, occurs predominantly along cortical microtubules, we tested whether SEC3A‐GFP puncta co‐localized with these cortical microtubules. We crossed an mCherry‐TUA5‐expressing line (Gutierrez et al., CITATION) with SEC3A‐GFP‐expressing lines. The optical coverage of cortical microtubules in the analyzed cells was 30.3 ± 0.9% (n = 3 cells; Fig. 9a). If the SEC3A‐GFP puncta appear at random locations of the cell cortex, the expected percentage of puncta co‐localizing with cortical microtubules is c. 30%. Thirty‐eight of 125 SEC3A‐GFP puncta showed co‐localization with cortical microtubules, which is 28.9% (Fig. 9a; Movie S3). This is not significantly different from the expected percentage (P = 0.59). To test the co‐localization of SEC3A‐GFP with CESA complexes directly, we crossed a tdTomato‐CESA6‐expressing line (Gutierrez et al., CITATION) into a SEC3A‐GFP‐expressing line and searched for the co‐localization of SEC3A‐GFP with the insertion of CESA complexes. This was performed by the photobleaching of existing tdTomato‐CESA6 in the plasma membrane. We performed a co‐localization analysis of newly inserted tdTomato‐CESA6 with SEC3A‐GFP puncta during the insertion process (both the erratic movement and static phase, as described by Gutierrez et al., CITATION), and found that only 2% of the CESA complex insertion events correlated with the presence of a SEC3A punctum at the same location (n = 100 insertion events in five cells; Fig. 9b; Movie S4). Thus, it is unlikely that SEC3A puncta are involved in exocytosis for the insertion of CESA complexes into the plasma membrane.  [[FIGURE]] In mitotic cells, the exocyst subunits SEC6, SEC8, SEC15B, EXO70A1 and EXO84B are localized to the initiating cell plate, disappear during cell plate extension and reappear on the division wall for some time after the completion of cytokinesis (Fendrych et al., CITATION). To determine whether SEC3A behaves similarly, we studied the localization of SEC3A‐GFP during the course of cell plate formation in dividing cells of the Arabidopsis root meristem. In the meristematic cells in both the epidermal and cortical cell layer, SEC3A‐GFP is localized to distinct structures with high fluorescence intensity in some cells (Fig. 10a). To gain an insight into the SEC3A‐GFP localization, we counterstained with FM4‐64, which labels developing cell plates (Dhonukshe et al., CITATION), and followed the SEC3A localization in cells of the root meristem over time. An accumulation of SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence was associated with the appearance of the cell plate. During the centrifugal expansion of the cell plate to the parental cell walls, the SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence disappeared (Fig. 10b). SEC3A‐GFP accumulation during early cell plate formation lasted 173 ± 15 s (n = 5 cells). When cell plate formation had completed, SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence started to accumulate at the division wall (Fig. 10c). The average residence time of SEC3A‐GFP at the division wall was 27 ± 5 min (n = 15 cells from three independent root meristems). Thus, SEC3A localization during cytokinesis is similar to the localization of other exocyst subunits.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. lines used had a Col‐0 background. Plants were grown in a growth room at 22°C with a 16‐h light and 8‐h dark photoperiod. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by floral dipping as described by Clough & Bent (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized as described by Ketelaar et al. (CITATION), followed by stratification at 4°C for 2 d. Seeds were grown on plates containing half‐strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands) and 0.7% Phyto agar (Duchefa), pH 5.7, or in biofoil slides, as described by Ketelaar et al. (CITATION), for fluorescence microscopy, with the exception that we used 0.16% (w/v) Hoagland's medium (Sigma‐Aldrich, Zwijndrecht, the Netherlands), supplemented with 1% sucrose (Duchefa) and 0.7% Phyto agar (Duchefa), pH 5.7.  The cDNAs of Arabidopsis SEC3A, SEC5A, SEC6, SEC8, SEC10, SEC15A, SEC15B, EXO70A1, EXO70H5, EXO70H7, EXO84B and EXO84C were amplified by PCR (the primer sequences are given in Supporting Information Table S1) and cloned into the pCR8/GW/TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The coding sequence of each protein in the entry clone was confirmed by sequencing and transferred into the Gateway destination vectors pDEST32 (pBDGAL4, bait) and pDEST22 (pADGAL4, prey; Invitrogen). As a result of technical problems, SEC15A, EXO70H5 and EXO84B could not be cloned into the pDEST32 vector and SEC10 could not be cloned into the pDEST22 vector. All the constructed bait vectors were transformed into the yeast strain PJ69‐4α (MATa; James et al., CITATION) and transformants were selected on SD (synthetic drop‐out) plates lacking leucine (Leu). All the constructed prey vectors were transformed into yeast strain PJ69‐4a (MATα; James et al., CITATION) and the transformants were selected on SD plates lacking tryptophan (Trp). Subsequently, all the baits were tested for self‐activation of the yeast reporter genes, and the basal expression level of the HIS3 reporter gene was determined by titrating histidine (HIS) activity with 3‐amino‐1,2,4‐triazole (3‐AT). The addition of 10 mM 3‐AT inhibited the growth of yeast in the absence of HIS, except for SEC3A, SEC10 and EXO84C. Diploid yeasts containing both bait and prey were generated by mating the two yeast strains on SD plates, followed by selection on SD plates lacking Leu and Trp. Next, the diploid yeast strains were transferred to SD plates lacking Leu, Trp and adenine (Ade), and SD plates lacking Leu, Trp and HIS supplemented with 10 mM 3‐AT, respectively. The β‐galactosidase assay was performed as described by Duttweiler (CITATION).  The T‐DNA insertion line SALK_145185 was obtained from NASC (European Arabidopsis Stock Centre, http://arabidopsis.info/) and verified by PCR‐based genotyping. Total genomic DNA was extracted as described by Edwards et al. (CITATION). The wild‐type allele was amplified using gene‐specific primers (Table S1) and the insert alleles were amplified using a gene‐specific primer and the T‐DNA left border primer LBa1 (5′‐TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG‐3′) and right border primer JMRB1 (5′‐GCTCATGATCAGATTGTCGTTTCCCGCCTT‐3′). Examples of genotyping PCR results are given in Fig. S2.  A 7589‐bp genomic DNA fragment containing 967 bp of sequence upstream from the start codon and the full‐length genomic sequence of SEC3A was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′‐CATGGAAGCCAGAAGTCCTCTCATTTC‐3′ and 5′‐AAAGCCGGGACTTAGCCATCC‐3′. The amplified fragment was cloned into the pDONR207 vector (Invitrogen), followed by recombination into the Gateway binary vector pMDC162 (Curtis & Grossniklaus, CITATION), and transformed into Arabidopsis by the floral dip method (Clough & Bent, CITATION). GUS staining was performed as described by Fiers et al. (CITATION).  To determine the terminal phenotype of sec3a embryos, seeds were excised from siliques from heterozygous plants and cleared in Hoyer's solution, as described by Liu & Meinke (CITATION). The seeds were then mounted and observed for defects in embryogenesis under an Eclipse 80i microscope (Nikon, Amstelveen, the Netherlands) equipped with Nomarski optics. Alternatively, immature seeds were dissected from siliques and fixed overnight in 4% paraformaldehyde and 0.25% glutaraldehyde in 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, rinsed three times in the same buffer, dehydrated in a graded ethanol series (10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 90%, 100%) and embedded into Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzer GmbH, Wehrheim, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Three‐micrometer‐thick sections were cut with a rotation microtome (HM 340; Microm GmbH, Walldorf, Germany) and stained in 0.05% toluidine blue. For the investigation of tissue organization of mutant embryos, immature seeds were placed in 0.002% w/v Calcofluor White in water between a microscope slide and coverslip, and gently squashed until the embryos popped out of the immature seeds.  A 7989‐bp fragment encompassing the SEC3A genomic DNA, including 967 bp of upstream sequence and 397 bp of downstream sequence, was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′‐GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCACTCGGAGTTAATATGTATGCGC‐3′ and 5′‐GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT5AAAGCCGGGACTTAGCCATCC‐3′. The amplified fragment was recombined into the vector pDONR207 (Invitrogen), followed by recombination into the Gateway binary vector pMDC99 (Curtis & Grossniklaus, CITATION). The transformed plants harboring the SEC3A gene were selected on 20 μg ml−1 hygromycin‐containing plates.  The entry clone was recombined into the Gateway binary vector pMDC107 (Curtis & Grossniklaus, CITATION). The selection and complementation analysis of transformants were conducted as described above (section on 2.6).  SEC3A‐GFP fluorescence and Calcofluor White‐stained embryos were imaged using a Nikon Eclipse Ti inverted microscope connected to a Roper Scientific spinning disk system, consisting of a CSU‐X1 spinning disk head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan), QuantEM:512SC CCD camera (Roper Scientific, Evry, France) and a ×1.2 magnifying lens between the spinning disk head and the camera. GFP was excited using a 491‐nm laser line and Calcofluor White using a 405‐nm laser line.  Photobleaching was performed using the FRAP/PA system (Roper Scientific) fed into the spinning disk microscope. The 491‐nm laser line was used at 100% intensity (10 ms per scan point of four pixels in diameter) to photobleach GFP.  All imaging processing was performed using Image J software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Figures were composed in Photoshop CS2 (Adobe, San Jose, CA, USA). Puncta were defined as high‐intensity (> 80 gray levels above the background level in eight‐bit, contrast‐stretched images), immobile, circular structures with a Gaussian distribution around the pixel, with the peak intensity ranging in size between 4 and 20 pixels. For measurements of SEC3A‐GFP intensity in median planes of root hairs, we defined the root hair tube as the tubular part of the root hair with a constant width. We measured the intensity of the area 5–10 μm from the base of the dome. The tip is defined as the top of the dome; we measured the intensities of a 3‐μm‐long membrane stretch centered around the top of the dome. For intensity measurements at the side of the dome, we measured a 3‐μm‐long membrane stretch centered around the center point between the top and the base of the dome.  FM4‐64 (final concentration, 17 μM) and brefeldin A (BFA) stock solutions were prepared in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Drug treatments were performed by submerging biofoil slides into drug‐containing medium for 20 min. Negative controls were treated with the same concentrations of DMSO as the drug‐treated samples. 
