!~ABS~! Many key aspects of plant development are regulated by the polarized transport of the phytohormone auxin. Cellular auxin efflux, the rate-limiting step in this process, has been shown to rely on the coordinated action of PIN-formed (PIN) and B-type ATP binding cassette (ABCB) carriers. Here, we report that polar auxin transport in the Arabidopsis thaliana root also requires the action of a Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS) transporter, Zinc-Induced Facilitator-Like 1 (ZIFL1). Sequencing, promoter-reporter, and fluorescent protein fusion experiments indicate that the full-length ZIFL1.1 protein and a truncated splice isoform, ZIFL1.3, localize to the tonoplast of root cells and the plasma membrane of leaf stomatal guard cells, respectively. Using reverse genetics, we show that the ZIFL1.1 transporter regulates various root auxin-related processes, while the ZIFL1.3 isoform mediates drought tolerance by regulating stomatal closure. Auxin transport and immunolocalization assays demonstrate that ZIFL1.1 indirectly modulates cellular auxin efflux during shootward auxin transport at the root tip, likely by regulating plasma membrane PIN2 abundance. Finally, heterologous expression in yeast revealed that ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 share H+-coupled K+ transport activity. Thus, by determining the subcellular and tissue distribution of two isoforms, alternative splicing dictates a dual function for the ZIFL1 transporter. We propose that this MFS carrier regulates stomatal movements and polar auxin transport by modulating potassium and proton fluxes in Arabidopsis cells.
!~RES~! To initiate the characterization of the Arabidopsis ZIFL1 gene (At5g13750), we monitored its organ- and tissue-specific expression patterns by means of reporter gene experiments. Staining of transgenic lines stably expressing β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of the ZIFL1 promoter revealed that this promoter is active in most plant organs (Figures 1A to 1L). In flowers, ZIFL1 appears to be strongly and exclusively expressed in the anther stamen filaments at all stages of floral development (Figure 1A). Interestingly, in young leaves ZIFL1 expression was largely restricted to stomata, which exhibited a distinct GUS coloration (Figure 1B). In fact, all green mature plant organs, such as stems, siliques, and leaves, displayed exclusive staining of stomatal guard cells (Figure 1C). In light- and dark-grown seedlings, very intense ZIFL1 promoter activity was detected at the shoot apical meristem (Figure 1D) as well as throughout the root system. Although homogenous GUS coloration was observed from the hypocotyl-root junction (Figure 1E) through all along the primary root (PR) (Figure 1F), the ZIFL1 promoter was particularly active at the root tip (Figure 1G). In addition, while no staining could be detected in lateral root (LR) primordia (Figures 1H to 1K), ZIFL1 was abundantly expressed in elongating LRs (Figure 1L). [[FIGURE]] We further explored the precise localization of ZIFL1 promoter activity in root tissues using transgenic lines expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the ZIFL1 promoter (Figures 1M to 1P). In the mature portion of the PR, the GFP signal was restricted to the cortex and to a lesser extent the epidermis (Figure 1M). At the root tip, ZIFL1 promoter activity was high in both the cortical and epidermal cell layers of the apical meristem and the transition zone, while absent from the quiescent center, the columella cells, or the LR cap (Figure 1N). A similar layer-specific pattern was observed in LRs, with ZIFL1 expression appearing mainly restricted to the cortex at an early stage of LR elongation (Figure 1O) and spreading also to the epidermis, particularly at the tip, in older LRs (Figure 1P). By contrast, ZIFL1 promoter activity in stomata was insufficient to allow detection of the GFP signal. Taken together, these results indicate that ZIFL1 may exert a prominent role in roots, particularly at the PR and LR tips, as well as in stomatal guard cells. According to the current genome annotation (TAIR10; www.arabidopsis.org), the Arabidopsis ZIFL1 gene contains 17 exons (Figure 2A) and generates three distinct transcripts (Figure 2B). The first, ZIFL1.1 (At5g13750.1), corresponds to the full-length transcript resulting from constitutive splicing of the precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA), while the second, ZIFL1.2 (At5g13750.2), likely arises from selection of an alternative transcription start site in the second intron. The predicted start codons of these two alternative transcripts are in frame; hence, their coding sequences are identical downstream of the ZIFL1.2 ATG. Finally, the ZIFL1.3 (At5g13750.3) splice variant derives from selection of an alternative 3′ splice site in the fourteenth intron, with the second of two contiguous AGs being recognized (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 transcripts are therefore identical, except for the absence of two nucleotides in ZIFL1.3 that leads to the inclusion of a premature stop codon in the 15th exon in ZIFL1.3. The ZIFL1.1 transcript is predicted to encode the full-size transporter, displaying the typical MFS transporter signature motif that includes two transmembrane domains, each consisting of six membrane-spanning segments delimiting a central hydrophilic loop (Figure 2C). On the other hand, the ZIFL1.2 and ZIFL1.3 transcripts encode putative transporters that retain the characteristic MFS structure but lack the two first N-terminal or the two last C-terminal membrane-spanning segments, respectively. [[FIGURE]] In order to verify the accuracy of these predictions and examine the tissue-specific distribution of the ZIFL1 transcripts, we first undertook an RT-PCR approach. Given that the ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 transcripts differ by just two nucleotides, only primers concomitantly amplifying both transcripts could be designed, while an independent forward primer was used to detect ZIFL1.2. Consistent with the promoter activity profile shown in Figure 1, RT-PCR analysis revealed that ZIFL1 is expressed throughout plant development (Figure 2D), with the ZIFL1 mRNAs being most abundant in young seedlings and root tissues, whereas very low transcript levels were detected in flowers and green tissues. Globally, the ZIFL1.1/ZIFL1.3 and ZIFL1.2 expression patterns were comparable except that the ZIFL1.1/ZIFL1.3 transcripts appeared to be markedly more abundant in senescent leaves and expression of ZIFL1.2 was slightly more pronounced in flowers. Intriguingly, during this analysis, we were able to easily clone the full-length ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.2 transcripts using cDNA obtained from roots, but various attempts to isolate the third transcript from this particular tissue revealed unsuccessful. This prompted us to investigate further the endogenous tissue distribution of the ZIFL1 transcripts by means of a sequencing approach. To this end, we PCR amplified and sequenced a ZIFL1 fragment, including the 2-nucleotide deletion present only in the ZIFL1.3 transcript, independently from root and leaf cDNA. As shown in Supplemental Figure 1 online, when using the F4/R3 primer pair, which concomitantly amplifies the three transcripts, only the sequence corresponding to ZIFL1.1/ZIFL1.2 could be detected in the ZIFL1 fragment obtained from root tissues, whereas the ZIFL1.3 transcript was also detectable, albeit at lower levels, in leaves. When using the F1/R3 primer pair, which specifically amplifies the ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 splice variants, we were able to identify only the ZIFL1.1 sequence in the root-derived fragment, whereas a mixture of rather equivalent amounts of ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 was found in the fragment derived from leaf tissues. These sequencing results thus revealed clear tissue specificity of the ZIFL1 transcripts, with roots exclusively expressing ZIFL1.1/ZIFL1.2, whereas in leaves the ZIFL1.3 splice variant also represented a significant fraction of the ZIFL1 transcript pool. To allow inference of the in vivo function(s) of the ZIFL1 transporter, we isolated two mutant alleles carrying T-DNA insertions in the ZIFL1 gene. The first allele (SALK_030680) was designated zifl1-1 in accordance with CITATION, whereas the second was identified from the GABI-Kat collection (GABI_052H08) and named zifl1-2. Sequence analysis of the genomic DNA/T-DNA junctions determined that both insertions are located in the 11th exon of ZIFL1 (Figure 2A). RT-PCR analysis of ZIFL1 expression in zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 homozygous seedlings using primers annealing upstream of the insertion sites revealed transcript levels comparable to wild-type plants, but no expression was detected when primers flanking or annealing downstream of the T-DNA segments were used (Figure 2E). This indicates that the two mutant alleles produce a truncated version of the three ZIFL1 transcripts that lacks the sequence corresponding to the entire second transmembrane domain and are thus unlikely to encode functional membrane transporters (CITATION). These results strongly suggest that both zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 are true loss-of-function mutants. Because the subcellular localization of the three alternative isoforms was expected to provide important clues in the functional analysis of the ZIFL1 gene, we next generated C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusions of each isoform and independently cloned them under the control of the 35S promoter. Surprisingly, transient expression of these constructs in Arabidopsis protoplasts suggested that the ZIFL1.1-YFP fusion protein localizes to the tonoplast, whereas ZIFL1.3-YFP appears to be targeted to the plasma membrane (Figures 3A to 3C). By contrast, no fluorescence could be detected in any of the transfection assays performed with the ZIFL1.2-YFP construct. To further verify the subcellular localization of the ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 isoforms, we generated stable transgenic Arabidopsis zifl1 mutant lines carrying either ZIFL1.1 or ZIFL1.3 fused at the C-terminal end with the GFP sequence and placed under the control of the native ZIFL1 promoter. Confocal microscopy analysis of root apices expressing ZIFL1.1-GFP again indicated tonoplast localization for ZIFL1.1 in both the cortical and epidermal cell layers (Figures 3D to 3F), whereas no fluorescence could be detected with this fusion protein in stomatal guard cells. In agreement with the results from our promoter-GFP reporter gene experiments, we were also unable to visualize transgene-derived fluorescence in guard cells of plants expressing the ZIFL1.3-GFP fusion protein. Interestingly, in these transgenic plants, no ZIFL1.3-GFP signal was detected in root apices, despite detailed analysis of a large number of independent transformants and consistent with the absence of ZIFL1.3 transcript detected in wild-type root tissues (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In order to unequivocally ascertain the subcellular localization of the ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 splice forms, we subsequently performed colocalization experiments in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells using specific tonoplast and plasma membrane markers (CITATION). As shown in Figures 3G to 3V, the ZIFL1.1-GFP fusion protein colocalized with the tonoplast marker, whereas the ZIFL1.3-GFP fusion protein matched the distribution of the plasma membrane marker. Collectively, these findings indicate that the full-length ZIFL1.1 and the truncated ZIFL1.3 transporters are localized at the tonoplast and the plasma membrane, respectively. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the biological role(s) of the Arabidopsis ZIFL1 transporter, we performed a detailed phenotypical analysis of the zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutants. Under optimal growth conditions, zifl1 mutant adult plants appeared indistinguishable from the corresponding wild type (Columbia-0 [Col-0]), as illustrated in Figure 4A (control conditions), showing also normal flowering time and fertility (data not shown). However, we consistently observed that zifl1 mutant plants were more sensitive to lack of regular watering, as demonstrated by their faster wilting under limited water supply when compared with wild-type plants (Figure 4A, drought stress conditions). This effect was quantified using a detached leaf assay and, as depicted in Figure 4B, both the zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutants clearly exhibited enhanced transpiration rates, losing between 40 and 50% of their fresh weight, versus only ∼20% for wild-type plants, upon 3 h of water stress. Similar results were obtained when entire plants (rosette stage) were employed instead of detached leaves (Table 1), indicating that the ZIFL1 transporter is involved in the regulation of drought stress tolerance in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Guard cells play a key role in optimizing plant CO2 uptake and concomitant water loss at the leaf interface by precisely controlling stomatal apertures in response to physiological and environmental stimuli (reviewed in CITATION). Together with the specific ZIFL1 promoter activity, we detected in guard cells (Figure 1C), the drought stress hypersensitivity of the zifl1 mutants prompted us to investigate whether ZIFL1 disruption affects stomatal movements. Indeed, microscopy measurements of stomatal apertures revealed that the stomatal pore was significantly larger in the zifl1 mutants than in the wild type (Figure 4C). This effect was relatively modest under light but markedly more pronounced in the dark or upon treatment with the stress hormone abscisic acid (ABA), two major effectors triggering stomatal closure (CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, zifl1 mutant stomata retain full sensitivity to both dark- and ABA-mediated stomatal closure, indicating that loss of ZIFL1 function does not affect the corresponding signaling transduction pathways. These results indicate that the ZIFL1 transporter is required for efficient stomatal closure. Given the high ZIFL1 expression in root tissues (Figures 1, 2D, and 3D) and the ZIFL1 heterologous expression results we obtained previously in yeast with the 2,4-D herbicide and the naturally occurring auxin IAA (CITATION), we next sought to evaluate the PR response of the zifl1 mutants to exogenous application of these two auxins. Although PR growth was unaffected under control conditions, zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutant PR elongation exhibited hypersensitivity to the inhibitory effect of 2,4-D, as well as significantly enhanced sensitivity to inhibition by IAA, at least at low concentrations of the natural auxin (Figures 5A and 5B, Table 1). To determine whether the identified phenotypes were restricted to root elongation, we also examined the effect of auxin application on hypocotyl elongation of dark-grown seedlings. Again, no phenotype was observed under control conditions, but both 2,4-D and IAA inhibited hypocotyl elongation to a greater extent in zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutants than in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Remarkably, such an exacerbated sensitivity was not detected when zifl1 mutant seedlings were challenged with other naturally occurring (e.g., indole-3-butyric acid [IBA]) or synthetic (e.g., 1-naphthaleneacetic acid [1-NAA]) auxinic compounds (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), strongly suggesting that the ZIFL1 transporter confers resistance specifically to 2,4-D and IAA. [[FIGURE]] A detailed characterization of the root system architecture of seedlings grown under control conditions revealed that zifl1 mutant and wild-type roots produce a similar number of total LR structures, including LR primordia and emerged LRs. However, the proportion of emerged LRs was reduced by ∼25% in zifl1 mutant seedlings, and these emerged LRs were significantly shorter than those of the wild type (Figures 5A and 5C). This indicates that the zifl1 mutants are not defective in LR initiation processes but rather in LR emergence and/or postemergence elongation. Furthermore, we quantitatively assessed root tip reorientation after gravistimulation and found that both zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 exhibit defective root gravitropic bending relative to wild-type seedlings (P < 0.001, Student’s t test; Figure 5D). As no differences were observed in linear PR elongation, this phenotype is likely to result from an intrinsic defect in the gravitropic response. Therefore, the zifl1 mutants are impaired in two developmental processes typically triggered by auxin. In fact, this phytohormone provides a critical stimulatory signal during the two steps of LR development, the initiation and emergence phases (CITATION; CITATION), eliciting also differential growth rates in response to tropisms, in particular to root gravitropism (CITATION). The striking phenotypical similarity displayed by the zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutant alleles strongly suggested that the observed defects result from loss of ZIFL1 function. To exclude the possibility of the effect of a mutation in another gene, we transformed both mutants with a genomic fragment spanning the entire ZIFL1 gene, which included the same promoter sequence used in the reporter gene experiments. The water loss rates of the corresponding transgenic complementation lines were similar to those of wild-type plants (Figure 4B). In addition, zifl1 complementation lines exhibited complete restoration of PR and hypocotyl elongation wild-type sensitivity to 2,4-D and IAA (Figure 5B; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Finally, genomic complementation of the zifl1 mutants fully suppressed the LR formation (Figure 5C) and gravitropic bending defects (Figure 5D). We have thus confirmed that disruption of the ZIFL1 gene is responsible for the identified zifl1 mutant phenotypes. Moreover, the fact that we observed full rescue of all phenotypes strongly suggests that the full-length ZIFL1 promoter is comprised in the selected sequence. In light of the above results, we next wanted to examine the contribution of the three alternative ZIFL1 isoforms to the phenotypes established for the zifl1 mutants. To address this issue, we first generated Arabidopsis transgenic lines independently expressing each ZIFL1 transcript under the control of the 35S promoter in the wild-type background for phenotypical characterization. Regarding the auxin-related phenotypes, we found that overexpression of ZIFL1.1 confers increased resistance to the inhibitory effects of exogenously applied 2,4-D and IAA, both at the level of PR (Figure 6A) and hypocotyl (see Supplemental Figure 2B online) elongation. Figure 6B shows that, although the number of total LR structures produced by the ZIFL1.1-overexpressing lines was not significantly different from the wild type, the ratio between LR primordia and emerged LRs was markedly unwedged to emerged LRs, whose length was increased by almost 30% in these plants. Overexpression of ZIFL1.1 also conferred enhanced gravity bending ability to the transgenic roots (P < 0.001, Student t test; Figure 6C). Therefore, the auxin-related phenotypes of ZIFL1.1-overexpressing lines were strikingly opposite to those discovered for the zifl1 mutants. By contrast, overexpression of ZIFL1.3 had no effect on any of these auxin-related processes. However, while no change in the transpiration potential of ZIFL1.1-overexpressing leaves was detected, leaves from ZIFL1.3-overexpressing plants exhibited significantly lower transpiration rates than those of the wild type (Figure 6D). Consistent with this and contrary to the zifl1 mutants, ZIFL1.3-overexpressing plants noticeably closed their stomata more efficiently than wild-type or ZIFL1.1-overexpressing plants, irrespective of the condition tested (Figure 6E). Finally, the ZIFL1.2-overexpressing lines, which were included in all the phenotypical assays performed, did not exhibit any evident phenotype (Figures 6A to 6D; see Supplemental Figure 2B online), indicating that this ZIFL1-specific transcript has no function, at least in the parameters tested. [[FIGURE]] To better ascertain ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 functional specificity, we then assessed the ability of these isoforms to suppress the zifl1 mutant defects by phenotyping the transgenic lines expressing either the ZIFL1.1-GFP or the ZIFL1.3-GFP fusion protein under the control of the ZIFL1 promoter in the zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutant backgrounds. As depicted in Table 1, complementation with ZIFL1.1-GFP fully abolished the PR elongation hypersensitivity to exogenous auxins of the zifl1 mutants but had no effect on their water loss rates. Conversely, ZIFL1.3-GFP fully complemented the drought-related phenotype but not the auxin-related defects. In addition to demonstrating that the GFP fusion proteins are functionally active, these results, together with those from the overexpression studies, provide evidence that the two alternative ZIFL1 splice isoforms have distinct biological functions, with ZIFL1.1 modulating root auxin-related processes and ZIFL1.3 regulating drought stress tolerance. The opposite alterations conferred by loss and gain of ZIFL1.1 function in auxin-related processes led us to hypothesize that this isoform regulates auxin transport in the Arabidopsis root. In a previous study, we reported that heterologous expression of the ZIFL1.3 isoform confers enhanced 2,4-D and IAA resistance in S. cerevisiae, most likely sustained by an increased efflux from the yeast cell, at least in the case of 2,4-D (CITATION). We therefore decided to reexamine the auxin transport activity of ZIFL1.3 in parallel to that of ZIFL1.1 in the yeast Δtpo1 mutant, which lacks an MFS transporter involved in 2,4-D and IAA resistance (CITATION). Correct expression of the GFP-ZIFL1.1 and GFP-ZIFL1.3 fusion proteins was confirmed by immunoblotting (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Subcellular localization studies showed that both plant isoforms are targeted to the yeast plasma membrane (see Supplemental Figure 4B online), in agreement with the localization observed in planta for the ZIFL1.3 but not for the ZIFL1.1 isoform (Figure 3). The latter observation is not so surprising, as plant proteins, particularly transporters, may not always be targeted properly when expressed in yeast (CITATION). We took advantage of ZIFL1.1 mislocalization, as plasma membrane targeting is a prerequisite to study ZIFL1 transport properties in the Δtpo1 background (CITATION). As seen in Supplemental Figure 4C online, Δtpo1 mutant cells expressing GFP-ZIFL1.1 or GFP-ZIFL1.3 similarly exhibited higher final biomass and a reduced lag phase in the presence of 2,4-D or IAA. This enhanced resistance was correlated with a significant reduction in the accumulation of [14C]2,4-D or [14C]IAA in nonadapted yeast Δtpo1 cells suddenly exposed to either radiolabeled auxin (Table 2). Compared with yeast cells harboring the empty vector, net auxin accumulation was reduced by ∼50% in cells expressing either of the two plant isoforms, indicating that ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 mediate similar auxin transport activity, at least in S. cerevisiae. In agreement with previous reports in yeast heterologous systems, Figure 7A shows that the IAA accumulation rate was reduced by ∼30% when cells were challenged with the polar auxin efflux inhibitor naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA), probably owing to the inhibitory effect this chemical exerts on endogenous yeast transporters (CITATION; CITATION). However, this negative effect was not further intensified by expression of either plant isoform, indicating that the IAA transport activity mediated by ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 is not inhibited by NPA in S. cerevisiae. [[FIGURE]] We next investigated whether the ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 transporters also influence cellular auxin levels in Arabidopsis using a radiolabeled auxin accumulation assay in excised root tips. The results presented in Table 2 show that the saturable accumulation of both [14C]2,4-D and [14C]IAA was increased in zifl1 mutant root tips when compared with the wild-type or ZIFL1.3-overexpressing lines, whereas accumulation levels were slightly but significantly reduced by ZIFL1.1 overexpression. As observed with the PR elongation assays (Figures 5A and 5B, Table 1), the measured effects were more pronounced when assessing 2,4-D than IAA accumulation. In addition, all types of root tips displayed wild-type levels of NAA accumulation, consistent with the wild-type responsiveness of their PRs to this synthetic auxin analog (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). As the saturable amount of auxin retained in the root tip reflects the balance between cellular influx and efflux of auxin, we then measured the net efflux from root tips preloaded with labeled IAA. Figure 7B shows that zifl1 mutant root tips accumulated more IAA due to decreased efflux, whereas ZIFL1.1-overexpressing lines accumulated less auxin as a result of higher IAA efflux rates, indicating that ZIFL1.1 influences cellular IAA efflux at the root apex. Given the encouraging results described above, we next aimed at determining whether the ZIFL1.1 transporter plays a role in the polar transport of IAA in roots. To this end, we first examined the effect of different chemical inhibitors of polar auxin transport on the elongation of zifl1 mutant and ZIFL1.1-overexpressing PRs (Table 3). While both root types responded to the auxin influx inhibitor naphthyoxyacetic acid (NOA) as the wild type, mutant and ZIFL1.1-overexpressing lines exhibited enhanced and reduced resistance, respectively, to the inhibitory effect that the auxin efflux inhibitors NPA and triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) exert on PR elongation (CITATION; CITATION). These data reinforce the notion that ZIFL1.1 influences exclusively cellular auxin efflux, hinting at its involvement in polar auxin transport. By contrast, ZIFL1.3-overexpressing lines behaved as the wild type in this assay, further supporting the finding that the ZIFL1.3 truncated isoform plays no role in auxin-related processes. To validate our hypothesis at the whole-plant level, we indirectly visualized auxin distribution by histochemical staining of wild-type and zifl1-mutant root tips carrying the well-described ProDR5:GUS auxin-responsive reporter construct (CITATION; CITATION). Under control conditions, DR5 activity in both types of roots was confined to a small collection of cells comprising the quiescent center and the stem cell niche (Figure 7C; see Supplemental Figure 5 online), as previously reported (CITATION). Localized application of IAA at either the hypocotyl-root junction or the extreme root tip of wild-type and zifl1 mutant roots similarly led to a substantially more robust staining in these particular cell types. In addition, in the wild-type background, GUS staining further extends into the distal elongation zone, with a clear gap in the region spanning from the quiescent center to the transition zone. By contrast, when IAA was applied at the hypocotyl-root junction of zifl1 mutant roots, staining barely spread into the apical meristem, with little if any staining evident in the transition or distal elongation zones. The DR5 activity pattern of the zifl1 mutants was also considerably distorted after root tip–localized IAA treatment, with staining expanding from the quiescent center into the elongation zone without a well-defined boundary between the apical meristematic and distal elongation zones (Figure 7C). The latter phenomenon was reproducibly observed when IAA was applied at a lower concentration at the root apex (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). These observations strongly suggest that ZIFL1.1 function facilitates shootward auxin redistribution from stem cells of the extreme root apex to mature cells of the distal elongation zone. Indeed, auxin distribution is at least qualitatively similarly distorted by mutations in the auxin efflux carrier PIN2, an established regulator of root shootward auxin transport (CITATION; CITATION). The relevance of ZIFL1.1 function to shootward auxin transport was further assessed by directly measuring IAA transport rates in both polarities using the optimized whole-root assay described by CITATION. As PIN2 is one of the IAA efflux carriers sustaining shootward auxin transport in the root (CITATION; CITATION), we included the eir1-4 mutant, a null pin2 allele in the Col-0 ecotype (CITATION), in this analysis. The entire assay was also recapitulated replacing IAA by benzoic acid as a weak acid diffusion control (see Supplemental Table 1 online). As seen in Figure 7D, rootward transport rates in eir1-4 and zifl1-1 mutant roots were comparable to those of the wild type, remaining also unaffected by ZIFL1.1 overexpression. By contrast, the eir1-4 mutant displayed as expected a pronounced but partial defect in root shootward IAA transport, which was reduced by ∼30% when compared with the wild type, in agreement with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Noticeably, zifl1-mutant and ZIFL1.1-overexpressing roots showed significantly (∼14%) decreased and enhanced rates of shootward IAA transport, respectively, confirming that ZIFL1.1 plays a role in shootward auxin transport at the root tip. Furthermore, we found that, while impairing rootward transport rates to a similar extent in all root types, NPA treatment failed to inhibit shootward IAA transport rates in the eir1-4 and zifl1-1 mutants to the same extent as in the wild type, as already reported for the eir1-4 mutant (CITATION). Despite being slightly less pronounced in the zifl1-1 than in the eir1-4 mutant background, the opposite effect was observed in ZIFL1.1-overexpressing roots. Together with the results from the PR elongation assay in presence of NPA (Table 3), the data presented in Figure 7D demonstrate that ZIFL1.1-mediated IAA transport activity is NPA sensitive in plant. In combination with its NPA insensitivity in yeast (Figure 7A), this further suggests that the tonoplastic ZIFL1.1 transporter does not function as an auxin transporter itself, but rather favors shootward auxin flows driven by typical plasma membrane IAA efflux carriers whose IAA export activity is inhibited by NPA in both plant and heterologous systems (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We then hypothesized that ZIFL1.1 function would play a role in fine-tuning polar IAA transport, particularly in situations of enhanced auxin fluxes, by modulating the activity of a specific auxin transporter. Given that ZIFL1.1 influences mainly if not exclusively cellular auxin efflux, a prime potential downstream target for this vacuolar MFS transporter was PIN2, hitherto the sole polarly localized auxin efflux carrier implicated in shootward transport in epidermal cells of the root meristematic and transition zone (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As discussed elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION), carrier-mediated auxin transport can be altered by regulating a given transporter’s abundance, subcellular trafficking, or activity levels. Since an experimental design to measure PIN activity is still lacking, we focused on examining the distribution and steady-state levels of PIN2 at the plasma membrane by immunofluorescence labeling of native PIN2 at the PR tip (Figure 8A). As expected, no PIN2 signal was detected in the eir1-4 mutant background (CITATION), whereas proper polar localization of PIN2 at the plasma membrane of wild-type root tips (i.e., shootward and rootward orientation in cells of the epidermis/LR cap and cortex, respectively) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), was observed. This asymmetric subcellular distribution was unaltered upon prolonged IAA treatment, consistent with previous reports that the polarity of PIN2 localization is not auxin responsive (CITATION; CITATION). Importantly, even under IAA challenge, mislocalization of the auxin efflux carrier was not observed in either ZIFL1.1 loss-of-function or overexpression lines, indicating that ZIFL1.1 function does not interfere with PIN2 polar targeting. However, in the presence of 0.1 µM IAA, PIN2 fluorescence levels appeared to be altered in the ZIFL1.1 loss-of-function and transgenic lines. We therefore assessed PIN2 abundance by quantifying the corresponding immunofluorescence signal at the plasma membrane of root tip epidermal cells (Figure 8B). Under control conditions, PIN2 incidence at the cell surface was not altered by ZIFL1.1 function, as illustrated by the equivalent PIN2 levels detected in wild-type, zifl1-1 mutant, and ZIFL1.1-overexpressing root tips. In seedlings grown in the presence of IAA, a substantial reduction in PIN2 plasma membrane abundance was detected in the wild type, consistent with PIN2 protein degradation following prolonged IAA treatments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Notably, we found that under IAA challenge, PIN2 stability at the plasma membrane of root tip epidermal cells was significantly decreased and enhanced by ZIFL1.1 loss of function and overexpression, respectively. These results are in clear agreement with the gathered physiological data (Figures 5 and 6) and indicate that, in the context of a stronger polar IAA stream, activity of the ZIFL1.1 transporter influences the steady-state levels of PIN2 at the plasma membrane, further supporting the notion that ZIFL1.1 acts as a positive regulator of shootward auxin transport. [[FIGURE]] In a first attempt to identify the physiological substrate(s) of the two plant ZIFL1 splice isoforms, we further examined the response of Δtpo1 mutant yeast cells expressing either GFP-ZIFL1.1 or GFP-ZIFL1.3 to various additional compounds. As seen in Supplemental Figure 4D online, expression of either GFP-ZIFL1.1 or GFP-ZIFL1.3 similarly conferred enhanced yeast resistance to two weak acids, malate and acetate, as well as to the metal ions Al3+ and Tl3+, as already reported for the latter in the case of the ZIFL1.3 isoform (CITATION). Hence, ZIFL1 is also able to modulate ion and weak acid sensitivity in yeast. Interestingly, we also found that expression of either ZIFL1 splice variant dramatically increases yeast sensitivity to the metal ion Cs+ (see Supplemental Figure 4D online). Cesium possesses similar chemical properties to potassium, and physiological studies in plants have demonstrated that Cs+ competes with K+ influx by entering root cells through at least some of the K+ uptake systems (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore decided to investigate whether the ZIFL1 transporter can also influence K+ delivery to the yeast cell by evaluating the capacity of the two ZIFL1 isoforms to rescue the deficient growth of the Δqdr2 deletion mutant under limiting potassium concentrations (CITATION). Figure 9A shows that both ZIFL1.1-GFP and ZIFL1.3-GFP were able to markedly alleviate the pronounced growth defect induced by loss of Qdr2 at low K+ concentrations. This finding strongly suggests that both the Arabidopsis ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 isoforms possess potassium transport activity. [[FIGURE]] Prompted by an earlier microarray study reporting ZIFL1 induction upon plant exposure to Cs+ (CITATION), we next investigated whether ZIFL1 function affects PR elongation in response to both K+ and Cs+ (Figure 9B). Like the loss-of-function mutants, ZIFL1.1-overexpressing plants responded as the wild type to the inhibitory effect induced by K+. However, in clear contrast with the hyperresistance conferred by the zifl1 mutations, the ZIFL1.1 transgenic line displayed decreased tolerance to inhibitory concentrations of Cs+ (Figure 9B). This led us to examine LR formation in the presence of Cs+. As shown in Figure 9C, cesium induced the production of LR structures to a similar extent in wild-type, zifl1 mutant, and ZIFL1.1 overexpression lines. Furthermore, the ratio between LR primordia and emerged LRs was not significantly altered by either the mutations or enhanced ZIFL1.1 levels, and the positive effect exerted by Cs+ on LR elongation was also similar in all genotypes (Figure 9C). Therefore, the effects of loss and gain of ZIFL1 function on LR emergence are suppressed in presence of Cs+, which along with the effects of its own toxicity is perceived by root cells as a potassium deficiency (CITATION). These results thus indicate that ZIFL1.1 may play a role in Cs+ and/or K+ homeostasis in plant root cells. As MFS transporters are believed to function mainly as proton motive force–driven secondary transporters, catalyzing uniport, symport, or antiport activities (CITATION), we analyzed the proton dependence of ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 activity in yeast. The intracellular pH regulation is essentially sustained in S. cerevisiae by the action of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase Pma1 (CITATION). As the activity of this proton pump and the passive proton influx through the yeast plasma membrane can be estimated by monitoring the pH of the external medium, we compared the acidification curves of Δqdr2 cells expressing the two plant transporters under growth-limiting potassium conditions. Low potassium levels were previously shown to lead to a reduced rate of extracellular medium acidification by yeast cells lacking Qdr2 when compared with the wild-type strain (CITATION). Importantly, expression of either the GFP-ZIFL1.1 or GFP-ZIFL1.3 fusion protein was found to increase the rate of H+ efflux in Δqdr2 cells grown in medium with low potassium (Figure 9D), demonstrating that the two Arabidopsis transporters influence proton transport across the plasma membrane of yeast cells challenged with potassium deprivation. Finally, to investigate whether the ZIFL1.1 isoform is also involved in proton transport activity in Arabidopsis, we assessed vacuolar acidification in root tips using an acidification marker, the dye acridine orange. As seen in Figure 9E, acidification of the central vacuoles was notably enhanced in zifl1-1 mutant roots, while ZIFL1.1-overexpressing seedlings exhibited a considerable reduction in root vacuolar acidification when compared with the wild type. These results strongly suggest that ZIFL1.1 mediates proton efflux from the vacuolar compartment in Arabidopsis root tip cells.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 ecotype was used as the wild type in all experiments. Seeds of the T-DNA insertion mutants zifl1-1 (SALK_030680) and zifl1-2 (GABI_052H08) were obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. The exact T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed using gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 2 online) and primers annealing at the T-DNA borders, which also allowed PCR-based genotyping to identify homozygous lines. Plant transformation was achieved by the floral dip method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. Highly similar results were obtained following extensive characterization of all transgenic lines generated for each construct, and representative results for one line are presented. Seeds were surface sterilized, sown on CITATION medium solidified with 0.8% agar, stratified at 4°C for 3 d in the dark, and placed in a growth chamber where they were transferred to soil after 2 to 3 weeks. All phenotypical assays were performed in a climate-controlled growth cabinet. Plants were cultivated either under 16-h (long-day) or 8-h (short-day) photoperiod (80 µmol m−2 s−1 white light) conditions at 23°C (light period)/18°C (dark period) and 60% RH. Hormones, antibiotics, and other compounds were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. RT-PCR analyses were performed as previously described (CITATION) using primers designed to detect ZIFL1, ROC10, and UBQ10 expression (see Supplemental Table 2 online). For native ZIFL1 promoter reporter gene experiments, a fragment including the 1778 bp immediately upstream of the first start codon was PCR amplified (see Supplemental Table 2 online) from genomic DNA and inserted via the SacI-SacII restriction sites into the pKGWFS7 plasmid (CITATION). After agroinfiltration of the resulting ProZIFL1:GUS:GFP construct into wild-type plants, 13 independent transformants were recovered. For synthetic DR5 promoter reporter gene experiments, wild-type and zifl1 mutant plants were transformed with the ProDR5:GUS construct inserted in the pEarleyGate301 vector (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and six independent transformants per genotype were isolated. Histochemical staining of GUS activity was performed as described by CITATION. Sequencing analyses were performed on a 3130x/Genetic Analyzer using the BigDye Terminator v1.1 cycle sequencing kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Applied Biosystems). Water loss assays were performed on irrigated nonbolting plants by weighing either detached entire rosette or four rosette leaves at various time intervals at room temperature (∼22°C). Stomatal closure assays were performed as described by CITATION, with more than 60 apertures recorded per treatment. PR elongation assays and LR parameter evaluation were performed as previously described (CITATION). LR primordial stages were scored under the microscope and defined according to CITATION. For hypocotyl elongation assays, seeds were sown directly on control or auxin-containing medium plates set in the vertical position and stratified and grown for 5 d in the dark. For root tip reorientation assays, 5-d-old seedlings grown vertically on control medium were transferred to fresh medium and allowed to grow for an additional 2 d. Plates were then rotated 90°C anticlockwise and kept in the dark before the angle of root tips from the vertical plane was scored. Stomatal apertures, PR and hypocotyl elongation, and LR length and root deviation angles were measured on scanned images using the ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). To generate the ZIFL1-YFP and ZIFL1-GFP fusions, each ZIFL1 transcript was PCR amplified (see Supplemental Table 2 online) using root (ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.2) or leaf (ZIFL1.3) cDNA as a template and independently inserted via the XhoI-PacI restriction sites into the YFP- or GFP-tagged versions of the pBA002 vector (CITATION). Arabidopsis protoplasts were generated as described by CITATION, transfected with the YFP constructs by polyethylene glycol transformation (CITATION), and analyzed by confocal microscopy. Transient coexpression of the GFP constructs with the tonoplast marker γ-Tonoplast Intrinsic Protein (TIP)-mCherry or the plasma membrane marker Plasma Membrane Intrinsic Protein 2A (PIP2A)-mCherry (CITATION) and the pBIN-NA construct (CITATION) in leaf abaxial epidermal cells of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) was performed via the agroinfiltration procedure described by CITATION using Agrobacterium strain GV3101. For generation of stable transgenic lines, the 35S promoter in the pBA002:ZIFL1.1-GFP and pBA002:ZIFL1.3-GFP plasmids was replaced with the ZIFL1 promoter. For each construct, six transgenic lines were recovered upon transformation of zifl1-1 or zifl1-2 mutant plants. For genomic complementation, a 5599-bp fragment encompassing the entire ZIFL1 gene and including the 1778-bp promoter sequence described below was PCR amplified (see Supplemental Table 2 online) from genomic DNA and inserted into the promoterless version of the pBA002 vector via the HindIII-XbaI restriction sites. The corresponding construct was introduced into zifl1-1 and zifl1-2 mutant plants, with three complementation lines being recovered for each mutant allele. ZIFL1 overexpression constructs were obtained as described for the YFP plasmids, except that the corresponding fragments were inserted via the XhoI-AscI restriction sites into the pBA002 background. After agroinfiltration of wild-type plants, three transgenic lines independently overexpressing each ZIFL1 transcript were selected. The parental Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain BY4741 (MATa, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0) and the derived deletion mutants BY4741_Δtpo1 (MATa, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0, YLL028w::kanMX4) and BY4741_Δqdr2 (MATa, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0, YIL121W::kanMX4) were used in this study. The Arabidopsis ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 coding sequences were cloned into the pGREG576 vector (CITATION), and expression of the corresponding GFP fusion proteins was tested by immunoblotting and fluorescence microscopy analyses as described by CITATION. Strains and vector were acquired from the Euroscarf collection. Susceptibility and spot assays were performed as described previously (CITATION) in minimal growth MMB-U liquid and agarized medium, respectively. To test the chemical stress inducers, 2,4-D, IAA, CsCl, Al2(SO4)3, TlCl3, l-malic acid, and acetic acid stock solutions (pH was adjusted to 4 for the weak acids) were added at the specified concentration. Growth under K+ limitation was evaluated on agarized ammonium phosphate basal medium (KNA) supplemented with 0.2 or 2 mM KCl as previously described (CITATION). Auxin accumulation assays were performed as described by CITATION, using 0.3 mM/0.5 mM of cold 2,4-D/IAA (Sigma-Aldrich) and 0.5 µM/0.5 µM [14C]-labeled 2,4-D/IAA (American Radiolabeled Chemicals) in the absence or presence of NPA (10 µM). To compare the in vivo active export of protons, the external medium pH was monitored as in CITATION, using liquid KNA medium supplemented with 0.5 mM KCl. Radiolabeled auxin accumulation was assayed in root-tip segments as described by CITATION, except that radiolabeled auxins were used at a final concentration of 4.5 µM [14C]IAA (50 mCi/mmol), 7.5 µM [14C]2,4-D (50 mCi/mmol), or 0.3 µM [14C]NAA (10 mCi/mmol) (American Radiolabeled Chemicals). To examine [14C]IAA efflux, the same protocol was applied, except that after the 1-h incubation period, root tips were rinsed with three changes of uptake buffer and further incubated in this buffer for 1 h before harvesting. Rootward and shootward root auxin transport was assayed as described by CITATION. After treatment with either 100 nM [3H]IAA or [3H]benzoic acid (American Radiolabeled Chemicals) applied as agar droplets for 13 h at the hypocotyl-root junction (rootward) or for 5 h at the root tip (shootward), 5-mm segments from the root apex (rootward) or spanning from 2 to 7 mm from the root tip (shootward) were excised. For PIN2 immunofluorescence localization assays, 3-d-old seedlings grown vertically on control medium were transferred to fresh medium supplemented or not with 0.1 µM IAA and allowed to grow for an additional 2 d. Whole-mount immunolocalization in Arabidopsis roots was performed as described previously (CITATION). Rabbit anti-PIN2 primary antibody was used at a dilution of 1:1000 and fluorochrome-conjugated anti-rabbit-CY3 secondary antibody (Dianova) was diluted 1:600. Differential interference contrast and confocal images were taken with a DM LB2 microscope (Leica) and an LSM 510 or 710 laser scanning microscope equipped with a Meta detector (Zeiss), respectively. For cell wall staining, roots were incubated in 10 µg/mL iodide propidium for 10 min. Acridine orange staining was performed as described by CITATION. Fluorescence detection parameters (laser intensity, offset, gain, and pinhole settings) were set so that the fluorescence signal emitted by zifl1-1 mutant root tips was just below the saturation threshold. All micrographs were acquired using identical fluorescence parameters to allow comparison with wild-type and ZIFL1.1-overexpressing root tips. Postimaging, average fluorescence intensity of seven epidermal cells within a single file located 600 µm from the root apex was recorded. For PIN2 immunofluorescence signal quantification, at least seven root tip micrographs per genotype per condition were captured using identical confocal settings. Postimaging, average fluorescence intensity of the PIN2 signal at the plasma membrane was recorded within each single epidermal cell file. Excitation wavelengths used to detect fluorescence were 488 nm for GFP and acridine orange, 514 nm for YFP, 543 nm for iodide propidium and mCherry, 458 nm for autofluorescence, and 561 nm for CY3. Emitted fluorescence was monitored at detection wavelengths longer than 560 nm for iodide propidium and autofluorescence, between 565 and 615 nm for mCherry, between 535 and 590 nm for YFP and acridine orange, between 500 and 550 nm for GFP, and between 569 and 649 nm for CY3. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: ZIFL1 (At5g13750), ROC1 (At4g38740), UBQ10 (At4g05320), PIN2 (At5g57090), γ-TIP (At2g36830), and PIP2A (At3g53420). T-DNA insertion mutants are as follows: zifl1-1 (SALK_030680), zifl1-2 (GABI_052H08), and eir1-4 (SALK_091142). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequencing Analysis of the ZIFL1 Transcript Tissue Distribution. Supplemental Figure 2. Auxin-Related Hypocotyl Phenotype of ZIFL1 Loss-of-Function Mutants and ZIFL1-Overexpressing Lines. Supplemental Figure 3. Effect of IBA and 1-NAA on the zifl1-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 4. Heterologous Expression of ZIFL1.1 and ZIFL1.3 in Yeast. Supplemental Figure 5. Auxin-Responsive ProDR5:GUS Expression in Wild-Type and zifl1 Mutant Roots. Supplemental Table 1. Benzoic Acid Diffusion in Roots of the Wild Type, eir1-4, and zifl1-1 Mutants and ZIFL1.1-Overexpressing Lines. Supplemental Table 2. Sequences of Primers Used.
