!~ABS~! Mammalian target‐of‐rapamycin (mTOR) triggers S6 kinase (S6K) activation to phosphorylate targets linked to translation in response to energy, nutrients, and hormones. Pathways of TOR activation in plants remain unknown. Here, we uncover the role of the phytohormone auxin in TOR signalling activation and reinitiation after upstream open reading frame (uORF) translation, which in plants is dependent on translation initiation factor eIF3h. We show that auxin triggers TOR activation followed by S6K1 phosphorylation at T449 and efficient loading of uORF‐mRNAs onto polysomes in a manner sensitive to the TOR inhibitor Torin‐1. Torin‐1 mediates recruitment of inactive S6K1 to polysomes, while auxin triggers S6K1 dissociation and recruitment of activated TOR instead. A putative target of TOR/S6K1—eIF3h—is phosphorylated and detected in polysomes in response to auxin. In TOR‐deficient plants, polysomes were prebound by inactive S6K1, and loading of uORF‐mRNAs and eIF3h was impaired. Transient expression of eIF3h‐S178D in plant protoplasts specifically upregulates uORF‐mRNA translation. We propose that TOR functions in polysomes to maintain the active S6K1 (and thus eIF3h) phosphorylation status that is critical for translation reinitiation. There is a Have you seen? (April 2013) associated with this Article.
!~RES~! First, we asked if TOR and S6K1 form part of eIF3‐containing complexes in Arabidopsis. Both TOR and S6K1 associate with eIF3‐bound complexes immunoprecipitated with anti‐eIF3c antibodies from Arabidopsis suspension cultures (FIG-REF). TOR immunoprecipitates contain an eIF3c marker, but not S6K1, suggesting that the TOR/eIF3 immunoprecipitation complex does not contain significant amounts of S6K1. Raptor—an important partner of TOR—was also found within TOR immunoprecipitates. In control experiments, the above proteins were not detected in non‐immune RS complexes, and the control protein—ADP‐ribosylation factor‐GTPase (ARF GTPase)—did not co‐immunoprecipitate with either TOR or eIF3c. [[FIGURE]] Then, we examined the phytohormone auxin as an upstream TOR effector. To verify auxin activation of TOR, we used Torin‐1, which inhibits TOR phosphorylation activity (CITATION; CITATION). Torin‐1 abolished phosphorylation of recombinant AtS6K1 at TOR‐specific residue T449 in Arabidopsis extract, and triggered its rapid dephosphorylation (Supplementary Figure S1A). Next, the effect of the auxin analogue 1‐naphthylacetic acid (NAA) or Torin‐1 on S6K1 phosphorylation at T449, and TOR and S6K1 association with eIF3 was followed in stationary‐phase suspension cultures. Phosphorylation of recombinant S6K1 at T449 was visualised by western blot using phospho‐specific antibodies against mS6K1 phosphorylated at T389, which specifically recognises AtS6K1‐T449‐P (CITATION). Although expression of S6K1 did not change significantly upon NAA treatment, the basal level of S6K1 phosphorylation at T449 increased about seven‐fold 6 h after treatment, while it fell below the limit of detection upon Torin‐1 treatment (FIG-REF; for quantification, see Supplementary Figure S1B). Thus, auxin can induce phosphorylation of S6K1 at TOR‐specific T449. TOR was present in eIF3c immunoprecipitates only when suspension cultures were treated with auxin (FIG-REF). In contrast, S6K1 accumulated in the eIF3c pellet after a 6h incubation with Torin‐1, but no S6K1 precipitation was seen 6 h after NAA treatment. Overall, these results suggest that eIF3 associates with S6K1 upon Torin‐1 treatment, and with TOR in the presence of auxin. Thus, plant eIF3‐containing complexes can interact with TOR and S6K1 in a defined temporal order and may serve as a platform for S6K1 phosphorylation by TOR, likely within non‐polysomal PICs, as suggested in mammals (CITATION). Our studies of CaMV TAV‐mediated polycistronic translation in plants revealed that the TOR signalling pathway is essential for activation of reinitiation after long ORF translation (CITATION). Here, we asked whether TOR could modulate the reinitiation capacity of uORF‐containing mRNAs such as ARF3, ARF5, ARF6, ARF11, and bZIP11 (FIG-REF). Translation of these messages requires reinitiation to translate the main ORF (CITATION). To determine the effects of TOR on initiation per se, we included uORF‐less mRNAs encoding actin or an auxin/indole‐3‐acetic acid 6 (IAA6) transcriptional inhibitor. Notably, the mRNAs used do not contain TOP motifs (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We quantified polysomal levels of selected endogenous uORF‐mRNAs under conditions that affect TOR activation differentially in planta. mRNA mobilization was monitored by semi‐quantitative RT–PCR (sqRT–PCR) of mRNA in polysome gradient fractions in extracts obtained from Arabidopsis seedlings treated with NAA or Torin‐1 7 days after germination (dag). Possible translation repression mediated by uORF2b within the leader of bZIP11 mRNA in response to sucrose was suppressed by using low sucrose levels (CITATION). In non‐treated seedlings, accumulation in polysomes of bZIP11, ARF3, ARF5, ARF6, and ARF11 mRNAs was significantly lower than in ribosomal subunit fractions, while actin and IAA6 mRNAs accumulated exclusively in polysomes (FIG-REF; band density quantification of results shown in Supplementary Figure S2A; for sqRT–PCR specificity control, see Supplementary Figure S2B). This correlates with the inhibiting effect of uORFs diminishing ARF3 and ARF5 mRNA translation levels to 50 and 12–15% in Arabidopsis protoplasts, respectively (CITATION). Surprisingly, all our uORF‐containing mRNAs, including bZIP11 mRNA, accumulated to a high extent in polysome fractions in response to auxin (FIG-REF, WT/NAA). In contrast, TOR inactivation by Torin‐1 reduced their accumulation in polysomes, and shifted uORF‐mRNAs from polysomes to ribosomal fractions, mainly 40S (fractions 7 and 8). Note that Torin‐1 did not abolish uORF‐mRNA loading on 40S PICs in our conditions. Torin‐1 did not affect the first initiation event significantly—heavy polysomal loading of both actin and IAA6 mRNAs was practically the same. In contrast, Torin‐1 greatly impaired uORF‐mRNA complex formation with heavy polysomes, while light polysomes—with probably 2–3 ribosomes sitting on the uORFs—still formed. We concluded that uORF‐mRNA abundance in polysomes is regulated by auxin in a TOR‐dependent manner, not only for auxin‐related genes, but also for bZIP11, suggesting a role for TOR in translation of these mRNAs. To verify that the effect of auxin on polysomal loading of uORF‐mRNAs was mediated by TOR activation, TOR was inactivated by Torin‐1 in seedlings treated with NAA. Supplementary Figure S3A and B demonstrates that auxin treatment failed to support polysomal loading of uORF‐mRNAs in conditions of TOR inactivation (WT/NAA+Torin‐1), as compared with NAA treatment (WT/NAA). Again, loading of Actin and IAA6 mRNAs was affected only slightly by NAA/Torin‐1 application. Comparative analysis of total mRNAs in extracts just prior to loading on sucrose gradients revealed no significant difference in mRNA levels 8 h after NAA or Torin‐1‐treatment (FIG-REF). In contrast, IAA6 mRNA levels were significantly higher after NAA treatment, but there was no impact on polysomal loading. Next, we verified whether auxin can promote protein synthesis from uORF‐containing ARF5::GFP mRNA in ARF5:ARF5::GFP transgenic seedlings. There was a significant increase in accumulation of ARF5::GFP fusion protein in response to auxin, but not in the presence of Torin‐1 (FIG-REF). To monitor the phosphorylation status of endogenous TOR during 4, 6, 8, and 10 h of auxin or Torin‐1 treatment, we used phospho‐specific antibodies against mTOR phosphorylated at S2448 (see CITATION; S6K1 is the major protein kinase responsible for S2448 phosphorylation of mTOR (CITATION); S2448 appears to be conserved in Arabidopsis TOR (see alignment in FIG-REF)). The partial TOR phosphorylation RxxS/T site (TGRDFS) can be phosphorylated as well (CITATION). Strikingly, auxin triggered TOR phosphorylation after 4–6 h of NAA application, without altering TOR or eIF3c protein levels, while Torin‐1 triggered TOR dephosphorylation (FIG-REF, TOR‐P). In contrast, there was no significant effect of auxin on Arabidopsis ERK1/ERK2‐like MAPK phosphorylation upon auxin application during 10 h (Supplementary Figure S3C), as shown by western blot with phospho‐specific antibodies raised against Arabidopsis MPK3/4/6‐P (CITATION). An effect of ARF mRNA leaders on GFP protein levels was studied in transgenic plants, with GFP placed downstream of the authentic ARF promoter/5′‐UTR (CITATION). As expected, GFP levels were elevated after auxin treatment (Supplementary Figure S3D). Although reinitiation efficiency depends on retention of RPFs in polysomes after the preceding initiation event, TOR pathway activation also seems important. We analysed the distribution of TOR and S6K1 between non‐polysomal 48S PIC and polysomes in extracts of Arabidopsis seedlings treated with NAA or Torin‐1 for 8 h (FIG-REF). The initial state of seedlings without treatment showed that TOR and S6K1 are distributed between polysomal and ribosomal fractions (FIG-REF), with TOR and S6K1 detected in 40S ribosomal subunit fractions, while in 80S and light polysomes TOR levels are at the limit of detection, and S6K1 seems to preferentially occupy polysomes. Interestingly, in response to auxin, TOR is phosphorylated and associates not only with 80S and ribosomal subunit fractions as expected, but also with polysomes (FIG-REF). Although S6K1 association with polysomes was fully disrupted in NAA‐treated seedlings, we noted that some S6K1‐T449‐P remained associated with ribosomal fractions. Torin‐1 treatment triggers TOR dephosphorylation and dissociation from polysomes and binding of inactive S6K1 instead (FIG-REF). Inactive S6K1 associated with 40S as well. We noted that phosphorylated TOR could be detected in 40S fractions—most likely due to incomplete TOR inactivation by Torin‐1, which may explain why Torin‐1 had no major effect on the first initiation event. We conclude that reinitiation after uORF translation may require active TOR loading onto polysomes. In control experiments, RNase treatment resulted in the disruption of polysomal complexes and the concomitant redistribution of S6K1 and TOR to lighter fractions of sucrose gradients (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We next tested whether TOR inactivation in planta is able to impair reinitiation events specifically. As an assay system we employed plants ectopically expressing an RNAi construct targeting the TOR FRB domain (TOR‐deficient RNAi line 35‐7; CITATION; CITATION). Although TOR and TOR transcript accumulation are reduced by ∼10‐fold, mesophyll protoplasts derived from these plants promote translation initiation of uORF‐less reporters as efficiently as wild‐type protoplasts (CITATION), suggesting that the remaining TOR levels are sufficient to promote initiation events. Accordingly, under conditions of partial TOR depletion (TOR RNAi) polysomal loading of uORF‐less mRNAs revealed no significant differences in either actin or IAA6 RNA with WT seedlings (FIG-REF), under any of the conditions applied (Mock/NAA/Torin‐1 data shown in FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure S4A). In contrast, polysomal loading of uORF‐mRNAs was reduced significantly in both non‐treated (TOR RNAi/Mock) and NAA‐treated conditions (cf FIG-REF and FIG-REF). However, Torin‐1 application reduced these levels even further. [[FIGURE]] In TOR RNAi seedlings, auxin treatment for 8 h augmented total ARF and IAA6 mRNA levels as compared with after Torin‐1 application (FIG-REF). As shown in Supplementary Figure S4C, auxin can stimulate ARF, in contrast to bZIP11 mRNAs, while after about 8 h ARF mRNAs become unstable and their levels drop to those in Mock seedlings. Similarly, auxin upregulates ARF4 transiently in Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). However, upon partial TOR depletion the auxin effect on ARF mRNA accumulation was delayed by about 2 h, resulting in elevated ARF mRNA levels at 8 h as compared with WT/NAA conditions (Supplementary Figure S4E). But the increase in ARF‐mRNA levels in TOR RNAi seedlings failed to significantly shift uORF‐RNA loading from 40S to polysomes (FIG-REF). Again, a seven‐fold increase in IAA6 mRNA levels did not further improve polysomal loading of this mRNA. Next, we examined TOR and S6K1 levels and their phosphorylation status in TOR RNAi seedlings. Phosphorylated TOR and S6K1 were both detected in WT plants, while TOR levels were at the limit of detection in TOR‐deficient plants (FIG-REF). As for phosphorylation of the TOR‐dependent substrate S6K1, phosphothreonine 449 was high in WT plants, and below the limit of detection in TOR RNAi (see also CITATION). Accordingly, TOR partial depletion revealed defects in polysomal loading of mRNAs that require reinitiation, but is TOR present within polysomes in TOR RNAi plants? Strikingly, regardless of the conditions applied—mock, NAA, and Torin‐1 (FIG-REF)—polysomes were prebound exclusively by S6K1 in its inactive dephosphorylated state. TOR association with ribosomal subunits could be detected after NAA treatment, but was below the limit of detection in Torin‐1 conditions. Accordingly, TOR RNAi extracts were not active in in vitro phosphorylation of recombinant S6K1 (Supplementary Figure S1A, right panel). Translation initiation events are not reduced in eif3h‐1 plants (carrying carboxyl‐terminal truncation alleles of eIF3h), but there is a serious defect in translation of uORF‐mRNAs (CITATION). Accordingly, polysomal loading of ARF and bZIP11 mRNAs was fully abolished in non‐ (data not shown) and NAA/Torin‐1‐treated conditions (FIG-REF; band density quantification of results shown in Supplementary Figure S5A) in contrast to the recruitment of actin and IAA6 mRNAs into polysomes in all conditions. Note that total mRNA levels in the eif3h‐1 mutant increased still further after 8 h of NAA treatment (FIG-REF), indicating that mRNA turnover is not responsible for the decrease in uORF‐mRNA loading onto polysomes. [[FIGURE]] In eif3h‐1 seedlings lacking full‐length eIF3h, the level of TOR and S6K1 as well as their phosphorylation status was largely unaffected (FIG-REF). Neither TOR/S6K1 phosphorylation status nor their ordered binding to polysomes in eif3h‐1 plants were significantly impaired: phosphorylated TOR was found in polysomes in response to NAA, and S6K1 was found after Torin‐1 application (FIG-REF). Thus, while mRNA reinitiation capacity is severely affected in eif3h‐1 mutants, normal TOR signalling pathway behaviour was unimpaired. This led us to suggest that eIF3h functions downstream of TOR and S6K1 in promoting reinitiation, raising the question of whether eIF3h is part of the TOR pathway. Finally, we compared total polysomes from WT, TOR RNAi, and eif3h‐1 treated with NAA or Torin‐1 by superimposition of polysomal profiles (Supplementary Figure S5B). Interestingly, heavy polysomes in WT plants are often less pronounced in TOR RNAi or eif3h‐1 mutant plants, and small, but reproducible decrease in polysomal levels in response to Torin‐1 was detected. Comparing plant and mammalian eIF3h sequences revealed similar motifs (REKNFS178/KEKDFS183, FIG-REF)—a pattern found in many Akt or S6K1 substrates (R/KxR/KxxS/T)—suggesting eIF3h phosphorylation via TOR signalling. Using the crystallographic structure of the MPN domain of hMov34 as template, a 3D model of Arabidopsis eIF3h was generated (CITATION); S178 is positioned within a specific loop spanning well‐conserved residues in the N‐terminal domain, suggesting high accessibility for phosphorylation (FIG-REF). In 2D western blots of extracts prepared from WT seedlings treated with either auxin or Torin‐1 (FIG-REF), one major phosphoisoform was identified by eIF3h antibodies in addition to the eIF3h spot, which was present only upon Torin‐1 application. Phospho‐specific antibodies confirmed the opposing effects of NAA and Torin‐1 on eIF3h phosphorylation by recognising an eIF3h‐P spot mainly in extracts treated with NAA (FIG-REF). Strikingly, in TOR‐deficient extract (TOR RNAi), where S6K1 phosphorylation was significantly reduced, phosphorylation of eIF3h was also impaired (FIG-REF), strongly suggesting that eIF3h is a novel target of the TOR signalling pathway. [[FIGURE]] We next studied whether eIF3h, like TOR, is targeted to polysomes in response to auxin. Without treatment, eIF3h was found in sucrose gradient fractions of light polysomes and, in phosphorylated state (visualised by phospho‐specific anti‐(R/KxR/KxxS/T‐P) antibodies), in 80S and ribosomal subunit fractions (FIG-REF). Strikingly, in response to auxin treatment, a significant fraction of phosphorylated eIF3h was found co‐sedimenting with polysomes (FIG-REF). These signals are specific for eIF3h, and were not observed in extracts prepared from eif3h‐1 plants (FIG-REF). Importantly, unlike with auxin, we detected no eIF3h in polysomes after Torin‐1 treatment; however, phosphorylated eIF3h co‐sedimented with ribosomal subunits, again suggesting that Torin‐1 did not fully abolish TOR phosphorylation in Arabidopsis seedlings in our conditions (FIG-REF). Next, we monitored eIF3h in polysomal and non‐polysomal complexes from TOR RNAi seedlings separated by sucrose gradient sedimentation (FIG-REF). As with TOR in TOR RNAi polysomes (FIG-REF), we found no eIF3h in polysomes, further suggesting that TOR is required for both eIF3h phosphorylation and association with polysomes. Again, eIF3h was found in ribosomal subunit fractions and was phosphorylated after NAA application, or dephosphorylated if Torin‐1 was applied. As expected, full‐length eIF3h was not detected in polysomes or non‐polysomal fractions of eif3h‐1 mutant seedlings under any conditions tested (FIG-REF). To gain further evidence that eIF3h is the downstream target of TOR/S6K1, we show that eIF3h co‐immunoprecipitates with S6K1 and/or TOR in Arabidopsis extracts (FIG-REF). In addition, S6K1 can interact physically with eIF3h as demonstrated by the yeast two‐hybrid system (Supplementary Figure S6). To study directly TOR and eIF3h involvement in translation reinitiation, we first tested whether transient expression of a reporter gene harbouring a single uORF within the leader region is sensitive to Torin‐1. Protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis suspension cultures were transformed with two reporter plasmids: pmonoGFP, containing a single GFP ORF (control for transformation efficiency), and either pMAGRIS‐GUS with GUS (β‐glucuronidase) reporting reinitiation after translation of the 6‐amino‐acid peptide MAGRIS, or pmonoGUS, with GUS indicating initiation efficiency (FIG-REF). The 7‐codon uORF MAGRIS is highly permissive for reinitiation in protoplasts and its translation does not reduce reinitiation of translation of further downstream ORF in mock conditions (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the percentage of scanning ribosomes that could initiate at the MAGRIS uORF start codon, and thus would need to reinitiate to translate GUS, we employed a specific uORF from the AdoMetDC gene (CITATION) encoding the peptide MAGDIS, which stalls ribosomes at the MAGDIS uORF stop codon, and no reinitiation occurs (CITATION). The stalling effect can be suppressed by a single amino‐acid substitution (D4R) within the MAGDIS uORF coding region resulting in uORF MAGRIS. The MAGDIS uORF diminished GUS expression to 10% of that of pmonoGUS in mock conditions, indicating that most ribosomes initiated efficiently at MAGDIS uORF and thus are trapped at its stop codon (FIG-REF). Therefore, since the initiation context of the D4R mutant‐coding uORF is identical, we expected to obtain similar high initiation efficiency for the MAGRIS ORF. In control protoplasts reinitiation of GUS ORF from pMAGRIS‐GUS as efficient as initiation from pmonoGUS as expected for uORF MAGRIS (FIG-REF). Adding Torin‐1 to the protoplast incubation medium inhibits pMAGRIS‐GUS expression by about 2.5‐fold, but does not reduce pmonoGUS expression, suggesting that the reinitiation step is specifically affected. Note that levels of GUS‐containing RNAs were unaltered during protoplast incubations (FIG-REF). Our results suggest strongly that reinitiation after translation of a 7‐codon uORF is sensitive to TOR inactivation. In contrast to a single uORF, multiple uORFs within the ARF5 leader fused to the GUS ORF in its authentic initiation context (pARF5‐GUS) reduced GUS ORF translation by about 80% as compared with that of pmonoGUS (Mock, FIG-REF), suggesting that several uORFs become nearly reinitiation non‐permissive in mock conditions. The low level of pARF5‐GUS expression was decreased further by Torin‐1, and increased in response to NAA. Importantly, the protoplast response to NAA was abolished by Torin‐1 (NAA+Torin‐1 versus Torin‐1, FIG-REF). pmonoGUS expression was the same under all these conditions, indicating that normal initiation was unaffected. Accordingly, TOR and S6K1, somewhat phosphorylated in protoplasts in mock conditions, were significantly dephosphoryated in the presence of Torin‐1 with or without NAA (FIG-REF, left panel). In contrast, TOR and S6K1 phosphorylation increased by about two‐fold in response to auxin. Thus, the GUS levels produced by ARF5‐GUS mRNA correlate with TOR and S6K1 phosphorylation levels and all are determined by auxin or Torin‐1 application. Among uORF‐containing leaders, ARF3 harbours the longest uORF that codes for a 92‐aa peptide and a short one encoding a 5‐aa peptide (FIG-REF). To dissect the effect of TOR on reinitiation after the first and/or second uORF translation, the AUG start of either one or both uORFs was replaced by a stop codon (FIG-REF). Although the ARF3 leader decreases the translation efficiency of the GUS ORF by 50% in mock and by 80% in Torin‐1 conditions as compared with the uORF‐less reporter, removal of uORF1 increases GUS up to the level of uORF‐less or uORF2‐containing reporters. Therefore, reinitiation of the GUS ORF after translation of uORF1, but not uORF2 is sensitive to Torin‐1. However, the effect of Torin‐1 on reinitiation is likely higher since uORF1/2 recognition can be decreased by a relatively weak initiation context of both uORF AUGs. Strikingly, GUS ORF translation from ARF3‐GUS RNA in Torin‐1 conditions can be increased by overexpression of eIF3h, or eIF3h‐S178D (phosphorylation mimic), but not eIF3h‐S178A (phosphorylation knock‐out) or, similarly, by overexpression of S6K1 or S6K1‐T449E, but less significantly by S6K1‐S178A (FIG-REF). Here, uORF1/2‐less ARF3‐GUS RNA translation was somewhat improved also upon S6K1‐T449E overexpression. In Torin‐1 conditions, endogenous eIF3h/S6K1 phosphorylation levels were reduced significantly but, when overexpressed, these proteins display some phosphorylation albeit less than their phosphorylation mimics (FIG-REF, right panels). As expected, mesophyll protoplasts prepared from TOR RNAi seedlings support similar levels of pmonoGUS expression as WT protoplasts and significantly less pARF5‐GUS transient expression in mock and NAA conditions (FIG-REF). Indeed, GUS expression levels from pARF5‐GUS obtained in WT (11% from pmonoGUS) dropped to residual levels in TOR RNAi protoplasts. Furthermore, transient expression of pARF5‐GUS, but not pmonoGUS in eif3h‐1 mesophyll protoplasts failed, but was rescued by eIF3h overexpression (FIG-REF), suggesting strongly that protoplast reinitiation competence under the conditions used depends on eIF3h. [[FIGURE]] To confirm further the significance of S178 phosphorylation for reinitiation, ribosome reinitiation capacity was compared in the presence of eIF3h, eIF3h‐S178D, and eIF3h‐S178A (FIG-REF). Strikingly, the eIF3h‐S178D, when overexpressed, induces GUS functional activity by three‐fold giving >30% of ARF5 leader‐containing mRNA expression as compared with monoGUS mRNA. Transient overexpression of eIF3h (less phosphorylated than eIF3h‐S178D, upper panel) slightly supported GUS activity in mock conditions, while eIF3h‐S178A has no impact. GUS activity from pmonoGUS did not change significantly upon overexpression of eIF3h mutants. Since phosphorylation mimic of eIF3h is active in reinitiation, we expect to find it bound to polysomes, while eIF3h‐S178A is not. Thus, we analysed polysomal association of eIF3h, eIF3h‐S178D, or eIF3h‐S178A mutants overexpressed in eIF3h‐1 mesophyll protoplasts (Supplementary Figure S7). Only eIF3h and its phosphorylation mimic were found in polysomal fractions, again indicating that eIF3h phosphorylation is a prerequisite for polysomal association. The above results, together with the finding that eif3h‐1 mutant plants display strong defects in root gravitropism (FIG-REF), raise the possibility that TOR may function in mediating the link between auxin signalling and root gravitropic response. Accordingly, a gravitropic defect was also seen in TOR RNAi seedlings after 24 h of 90° gravity stimulation (FIG-REF). We thus examined whether Torin‐1 affects the slower phase of gravity root bending regulated by the asymmetric distribution of auxin (CITATION). Strikingly, 4‐dag WT and TOR RNAi seedlings grown for 48 h on agar plates with Torin‐1 lost gravity perception after turning the seedlings through 90°, showing no or a smaller bending angle after Torin‐1 application (drawn schematically in FIG-REF). These results indicate that TOR may exert its effects on gravity sensing by triggering translation reinitiation of mRNAs that encode members of the ARF family, and thus auxin‐responsive gene expression. If true, then this would predict that Torin‐1 will affect transcription from promoters regulated by ARFs. [[FIGURE]] To test this hypothesis, we exploited an auxin‐responsive promoter driving GFP expression (DR5:GFP) to follow in situ cellular activation of auxin‐induced genes in gravity‐stimulation experiments. Gravity determines auxin redistribution along the lower side of the root tip, creating supraoptimal auxin levels that inhibit cell elongation, causing the root to bend downwards (CITATION). Four hours after gravity stimulation, the DR5:GFP signal was observed mainly in the columella, a stem‐cell niche of the root meristem, and in a streak extending basipetally as expected (FIG-REF). As shown above, Torin‐1 can block the gravity response, and here no asymmetry in DR5:GFP signal distribution was detected within cortical‐endodermal cells in gravity‐stimulated roots after 4 h. Torin‐1 application had no effect on GFP redistribution along cortex/endodermal cells in response to gravity stimulation in a 35S:GFP Arabidopsis line.
!~MM~! Transgenic lines and vector constructions are described in Supplementary data. For seedling growth, cell culture details, extract preparations, production of recombinant S6K1, and the in vitro kinase phosphorylation assay, see Supplementary data and CITATION. Fourteen‐day‐old Arabidopsis cultures, 7‐dag seedlings were incubated in MS medium containing no, or 20 nM NAA, or 250 nM Torin‐1 for the times indicated. For growth details, extract preparation, and analysis, see Supplementary methods. For immunoprecipitation assays, we used 7‐dag Arabidopsis Col‐0 seedlings or 14‐day‐old Arabidopsis cultures that were transferred into fresh MS medium containing no or 20 nM NAA, or 250 nM Torin‐1 and grown at 24°C. Total protein extracts, IP fractions, and 2D gel analysis were as described in Supplementary data. Polysomes were isolated from 18 h mesophyll protoplasts, 7‐dag Arabidopsis Col‐0 WT, TOR RNAi, and eif3h‐1 seedlings treated (or not) with NAA or Torin‐1 for 8 h and analysed by density sucrose centrifugation (Supplementary data). ARF, bZIP11, IAA6, and ACTIN mRNA levels were analysed in ribosomal profiles by sqRT–PCR, and in total extracts by qRT–PCR, protein content by western blot. Transient expression was analysed in protoplasts derived from an Arabidopsis suspension culture or 2‐week eif3h‐1 or TOR RNAi plantlets incubated with no or NAA, or Torin‐1. For transfection protocol, see Supplementary data. Seedlings were germinated vertically in the dark at 22°C for 4 days. The plants were then placed on fresh MS agar plates with or without 250 nM Torin‐1 maintaining the same orientation and growth conditions and allowed to grow for a further 2 days. The plates were then turned through 90 ° and grown for a further 4 h. GFP fluorescence in roots was analysed after 4 h of a 90° gravistimulation in the dark as described in Supplementary data. The 3D structure of Arabidopsis eIF3h was created using Modeller (CITATION) and represented graphically by PyMOL (http://www.pymol.org). Support structure for modelling the central region (1–200 aa) of eIF3h was found with NIH BLAST.
