!~ABS~! DNA methylation in transposons and other DNA repeats is conserved in plants as well as in animals. In Arabidopsis thaliana, an RNA‐directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway directs de novo DNA methylation. We performed a forward genetic screen for suppressors of the DNA demethylase mutant ros1 and identified a novel Zinc‐finger and OCRE domain‐containing Protein 1 (ZOP1) that promotes Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation, DNA methylation, and transcriptional silencing. Whole‐genome methods disclosed the genome‐wide effects of zop1 on Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation and DNA methylation, suggesting that ZOP1 has both RdDM‐dependent and ‐independent roles in transcriptional silencing. We demonstrated that ZOP1 is a pre‐mRNA splicing factor that associates with several typical components of the splicing machinery as well as with Pol II. Immunofluorescence assay revealed that ZOP1 overlaps with Cajal body and is partially colocalized with NRPE1 and DRM2. Moreover, we found that the other development‐defective splicing mutants tested including mac3a3b, mos4, mos12 and mos14 show defects in RdDM and transcriptional silencing. We propose that the splicing machinery rather than specific splicing factors is involved in promoting RdDM and transcriptional silencing.
!~RES~! Previous studies suggest that the RD29A promoter‐driven luciferase (RD29A‐LUC) transgene, endogenous RD29A, and the 35S promoter‐driven NPTII (35S‐NPTII) transgene are highly expressed in wild‐type plants under stress conditions, whereas loss‐of‐function mutation in the DNA demethylase gene ROS1 silences the expression of all three genes (CITATION). The previous forward genetic screens for suppressors of ros1 identified most of the RdDM components and other important proteins involved in transcriptional gene silencing (CITATION; CITATION). The RdDM pathway is required for the silencing of the RD29A‐LUC transgene as well as of the endogenous RD29A in ros1, but is dispensable for the silencing of the 35S‐NPTII transgene from the same construct. In the current study, a new mutant, zop1, was identified as a suppressor of ros1 (FIG-REF). Like the previously identified RdDM mutants, zop1 suppresses the silencing of RD29A‐LUC and endogenous RD29A but not of 35S‐NPTII in the ros1 background, although suppression of silencing is less with zop1 than with nrpe1 (FIG-REF). The DNA methylation of both transgenic and endogenous RD29A promoters was tested by bisulphite sequencing. Similar to the results of previous reports, heavy DNA methylation in the ros1 mutant occurs in all three cytosine contexts (CG, CHG, and CHH) at both transgenic and endogenous RD29A promoters. The high DNA methylation is substantially reduced at CHG and CHH sites in both ros1zop1 and ros1nrpe1 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We mapped the zop1 mutation by using a F2 segregation population from the cross between the ros1zop1 mutant in the C24 background and a homozygous ros1 mutant (Salk_045303) in the Col‐0 background. The plants that emitted high bioluminescence were selected from the F2 population for map‐based cloning. The zop1 mutation was mapped to a ∼273‐kb interval on Chromosome 1 (Supplementary Figure S1A). A single‐nucleotide G to A substitution in AT1G49590 was identified by deep sequencing of the whole ros1zop1 genome (Supplementary Figure S1B). The substitution creates a premature stop codon and truncates the protein at Arg18 (Supplementary Figure S1B). The construct harbouring the full AT1G49590 genomic sequence in‐frame to the 3 × Flag tag was transformed into ros1zop1 for a complementation test. The results show that the AT1G49590 transgene is able to restore the RD29A‐LUC silencing (Supplementary Figure S1C). Moreover, the transgene complements the developmental defects of ros1zop1 (Supplementary Figure S1D). The results suggest that AT1G49590 is the ZOP1 gene that is not only required for RdDM and transcriptional gene silencing but also for proper development. ZOP1 contains an N‐terminal C2H2‐type ZnF domain and a predicted octamer repeat (OCRE) domain (Supplementary Figure S1B and S2), and its name reflects its status as a zinc finger‐ and OCRE domain‐containing protein. Previous studies reported that the OCRE‐containing proteins are likely to be involved in nucleic acid binding and RNA metabolism (CITATION). However, the function of the ZnF and OCRE domains in ZOP1 remains to be elucidated. ZOP1 and its homologues are conserved from unicellular green algae to various angiosperms (Supplementary Figure S2), whereas there is no ZOP1 homologue in animals and fungi. We measured the effect of the zop1 mutation on accumulation of Pol IV‐dependent siRNAs from RD29A‐LUC transgene promoter and endogenous genome target loci. The 24‐nt siRNA from the transgene promoter is blocked in ros1nrpd1 (CITATION), suggesting that it is a Pol IV‐dependent siRNA. Our small RNA northern blot analysis indicates that the accumulation of the RD29A promoter siRNA is partially reduced in ros1zop1 as well as in ros1nrpe1 (FIG-REF). Moreover, we found that the zop1 mutation markedly reduces the accumulation of the Pol IV‐ and Pol V‐dependent siRNAs, including AtSN1 siRNA and siRNA1003 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S1). Cluster4 siRNA and siRNA02 were previously recognized as Pol IV‐dependent but Pol V‐independent siRNAs (CITATION; CITATION), but our results indicate that both siRNAs are weakly reduced by nrpe1 in ros1nrpe1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S1). Although Cluster4 siRNA and siRNA02 are partially dependent on Pol V, the dependence is much lower than that of previously characterized Pol IV‐ and Pol V‐dependent siRNAs including AtSN1 siRNA and siRNA1003. The reduction of Cluster4 siRNA and siRNA02 in ros1zop1 is similar to that in ros1nrpe1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S1). Interestingly, we found that the accumulation of AtSN1 siRNA and Cluster4 siRNA seems to be weakly reduced by ros1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S1). This effect may be caused by the feedback effect of ros1 on RdDM. [[FIGURE]] The effect of zop1 on Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation was measured by small RNA deep sequencing. The results indicate that 201 658 Pol IV‐dependent 24‐nt siRNA reads are uniquely matched on the Arabidopsis nuclear genome (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S2). These siRNAs are reduced to 18 654 reads (9.3%) and 115 604 reads (57.3%) in ros1nrpd1 and ros1nrpe1, respectively. The siRNAs in ros1zop1 are reduced to 146 555 reads (72.7%), which is comparable to that in ros1nrpe1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Table S2). Plotting of the Pol IV‐dependent 24‐nt siRNA distribution in ros1, ros1zop1, and ros1nrpd1 (Supplementary Figure S3A–E) indicates that unlike nrpd1, zop1 only partially affects Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation. The effect of zop1 on siRNA accumulation is similar to that of nrpe1, indicating that the zop1 mutation may influence a downstream step at the RdDM pathway. The effect of zop1 on the DNA methylation level of endogenous RdDM genomic targets was tested by bisulphite sequencing analysis. The results indicate that the DNA methylation of AtSN1 A and MEA‐ISR at CHG and CHH sites is substantially reduced in ros1zop1 as well as in ros1nrpe1, whereas the DNA methylation at CG sites is not affected by either zop1 or nrpe1 (FIG-REF). The effect of zop1 on the DNA methylation of AtSN1 was further confirmed by chop‐PCR. The results suggest that the AtSN1 DNA methylation is partially reduced in ros1zop1 compared to that in WT and ros1, but the reduction is less than that in ros1nrpd1 and ros1nrpe1 (Supplementary Figure S4). Moreover, the suppressive effect of zop1 on DNA methylation was demonstrated by chop‐PCR at one more RdDM target IGN23 (Supplementary Figure S4). To determine the genome‐wide effect of zop1 on DNA methylation, we preformed whole‐genome bisulphite sequencing in ros1, ros1nrpd1, and ros1zop1. The results show that zop1 as well as nrpd1 reduces DNA methylation especially at CHG and CHH sites at a whole‐genome level (Supplementary Figure S5; Supplementary Table S3). The genome‐wide effect of nrpd1 on DNA methylation determined by this study is consistent with the previous study (CITATION). The reduction of CHH methylation in ros1zop1 is clearly less than that in ros1nrpd1, whereas the reduction of CHG methylation in ros1zop1 is comparable to that in ros1nrpd1 (Supplementary Table S3). The identified DNA methylation differences caused by zop1 and nrpd1 were measured by sequence‐specific bisulphite sequencing analysis at three randomly selected loci (AT5G35540, At1G54750, and AT1G14247) and the results indicated that our whole‐genome bisulphite sequencing results are reliable (Supplementary Figure S6A–C). In the ros1nrpd1 mutant, there are 3522 genes and 3799 TEs that show reduced CHG methylation. Among them, 1211 genes (34.4%) and 1015 TEs (26.7%) also have reduced CHG methylation in ros1zop1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5). ZOP1 may act on these loci through an RdDM‐dependent pathway. Moreover, there are 2672 genes and 1683 TEs whose CHG methylation is reduced in ros1zop1 but not in ros1nrpd1, suggesting that the CHG methylation at these loci may be established and maintained through an RdDM‐independent pathway (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5). There are 1807 genes and 5709 TEs that have reduced CHH methylation in ros1nrpd1 relative to ros1, in which only 277 genes (15.3%) and 410 TEs (7.2%) have reduced CHH methylation in both ros1nrpd1 and ros1zop1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5). There are 606 genes and 563 TEs that show reduced CHH methylation in ros1zop1 but not in ros1nrpd1. Totally, the zop1 mutation can reduce CHH methylation at 883 genes and 973 TEs, which are much less than 1807 genes and 5709 TEs that are affected by nrpd1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5). The result is consistent with the weak reduction of the overall CHH methylation level in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Table S3). In the 5709 TEs that show NRPD1‐dependent CHH methylation, only less than one tenth of these loci (410/5709) whose CHH methylation is markedly reduced by zop1 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5), suggesting that the effect of zop1 on CHH methylation is much less than nrpd1. Like nrpd1, zop1 reduces DNA methylation substantially in euchromatic regions and only slightly in centromeric regions (Supplementary Figure S5). At the promoter regions of protein‐coding genes, the DNA methylation level is generally reduced at CHG and CHH sites by both zop1 and nrpd1, although the reduction of CHH methylation caused by zop1 is less than that caused by nrpd1 (Supplementary Figure S7A). At TEs, the DNA methylation is reduced by nrpd1 especially at CHH sites, whereas the reduction of DNA methylation caused by zop1 is significant at CHG sites rather than at CHH sites (Supplementary Figure S7B). The results suggest that ZOP1 may act on DNA methylation through an uncharacterized mechanism that is different from the canonical RdDM pathway. The transcriptional silencing at endogenous RdDM genome target loci is associated with DNA hypermethylation. Our quantitative RT–PCR results indicate that the silencing of AtSN1 A, AtGP1, and solo LTR is substantially released in either ros1nrpd1 or ros1nrpe1 and is released to a much lesser extent in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Figure S8A and B). Unlike the previously characterized RdDM mutants including nrpd1 and nrpe1, zop1 has no effect on ROS1 expression (Supplementary Figure S8A). The release of silencing at AtGP1 and solo LTR was also found in the zop1 single mutants (Supplementary Figure S8B), suggesting that the effect of zop1 on silencing is unrelated to the ros1 mutation in ros1zop1. The Pol V‐dependent RNA transcripts AtSN1 B, IGN5 B, and IGN23 from RdDM target loci are blocked in ros1nrpe1 but are not affected in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Figure S8C), demonstrating that ZOP1 is not required for accumulation of Pol V‐dependent RNA transcripts. ZOP1 is a ZnF and OCRE domain‐containing protein. The OCRE domain‐containing proteins are usually involved in RNA processing (CITATION). We performed RNA deep sequencing to determine the possible effect of zop1 on RNA processing. From the ros1 and ros1zop1 RNA libraries, we obtained 25.5 million and 27.7 million RNA reads, respectively. Among them, 14.5 million and 13.5 million reads were mapped to the Arabidopsis genome. The intron‐retention events were analysed in ros1 and ros1zop1, and 361 intron‐retention events in 215 genes were identified in ros1zop1 but not in ros1 (P<0.01, intron read coverage >80%) (Supplementary Table S6). In contrast, only 31 intron‐retention events in 27 genes were identified in ros1 but not in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Table S7). The intron‐retention events in ros1zop1 were confirmed by RT–PCR using intron‐flanking primers (FIG-REF), suggesting that zop1 may cause defects in pre‐mRNA splicing. Moreover, we found that the defects can be complemented by the ZOP1 transgene in the ros1zop1 mutant background (FIG-REF). The results confirmed that zop1 causes defects in pre‐mRNA splicing. Additionally, we found that the mature mRNAs are still present in ros1zop1 even some mRNAs are probably mildly reduced (FIG-REF). Together, the results indicate that ZOP1 is a protein related to pre‐mRNA splicing. [[FIGURE]] According to RNA deep sequencing in ros1 and ros1zop1, the RNA transcripts of hundreds of genes were affected by zop1 (Supplementary Table S8). A possible explanation for the involvement of ZOP1 in Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation and DNA methylation is that the splicing defects caused by zop1 impair the accumulation of the mature mRNAs encoding typical RdDM components. However, our RNA deep sequencing result shows that no RdDM component‐encoding gene is affected in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Table S8). Furthermore, our quantitative RT–PCR results confirmed that the expression of major RdDM components is not reduced in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Figure S9). Thus, the effect of zop1 on RdDM is unlikely to be the result of indirect regulation of RdDM component‐encoding genes. The splicing factor ZOP1 is likely to directly contribute to DNA methylation and transcriptional gene silencing. To better understand the function of ZOP1, we carried out affinity purification of the ZOP1‐Flag fusion protein from the ZOP1‐Flag transgenic plants. The copurified proteins were analysed by mass spectrometry. Many peptides corresponding to components of spliceosome complexes and splicing factors were identified from the ZOP1‐Flag copurified proteins (Supplementary Figure S10; Supplementary Table S9), suggesting the association between ZOP1 and these splicing proteins. In the list of ZOP1 copurified proteins, STA1 is the homologue of a yeast splicing factor PRP6 that interacts with both the U4/U6 and U5 snRNPs and facilitate the formation of U4/U6‐U5 tri‐snRNPs (CITATION). Our coimmunoprecipitation assay confirmed that ZOP1 can specifically associate with STA1 (FIG-REF), indicating that ZOP1 is likely to be a novel splicing factor. Subcellular localization of ZOP1 was determined by immunolocalization assay with the Flag antibody in the ZOP1‐Flag transgenic plants. The result shows that ZOP1 is a nuclear protein (Supplementary Figure S11), which is consistent with its roles in pre‐mRNA splicing as well as in DNA methylation and transcriptional silencing. [[FIGURE]] Because ZOP1 belongs to a member of OCRE domain‐containing proteins that are usually involved in nucleic acid binding, we carried out electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) to determine whether ZOP1 is capable of binding to nucleic acids. The results show that the recombinant His‐tagged ZOP1 protein can bind double‐stranded DNA as well as double‐stranded RNA but not single‐stranded DNA or RNA (Supplementary Figure S12A). ZOP1 can bind both blunt‐end double‐stranded RNA (bdsRNA) and 5′ overhanging double‐stranded RNA (odsRNA) (Supplementary Figure S12A). ZOP1 binds to double‐stranded DNA or RNA in a dose‐dependent manner, and the binding is reduced by competition with unlabelled double‐stranded DNA or RNA (Supplementary Figure S12B and C), suggesting that the nucleic acid‐binding ability of ZOP1 is specific. To identify the domain that is required for the nucleic acid binding of ZOP1, we generated a series of truncated ZOP1 proteins and used these proteins in EMSA (Supplementary Figure S12D). The results show that the previously uncharacterized C‐terminal domain but not the ZnF and OCRE domains is responsible for ZOP1 binding to both double‐stranded DNA and double‐stranded RNA (Supplementary Figures S12D and E). Positively charged amino acids are rich in the ZOP1 C‐terminal domain (Supplementary Figure S2), which is consistent with its nucleic acid‐binding ability. AGO4 protein levels are reduced in the RdDM mutants that are directly responsible for primary siRNA biogenesis, including nrpd1, rdr2, and dcl3 (CITATION; Supplementary Figure S13). Our western blotting result indicates that neither zop1 nor nrpe1 affects AGO4 protein levels (Supplementary Figure S13), suggesting that like NRPE1, ZOP1 is not directly involved in primary siRNA biogenesis, but how ZOP1 is involved in DNA methylation remains to be elucidated. We used coimmunoprecipitation to determine whether ZOP1 interacts with the proteins that promote DNA methylation. The results suggest that ZOP1 cannot interact with the tested canonical RdDM components, including AGO4, NRPD1, NRPE1, DRM2, and RDM4 (FIG-REF; Supplementary Figure S14A–D). Coimmunoprecipitation indicates, however, that ZOP1 can interact in vivo with Pol II (FIG-REF). Furthermore, the interaction between ZOP1 and Pol II was tested in the presence of RNase and DNase. The result demonstrated that the interaction is insensitive to RNase and DNase (Supplementary Figure S15). Pol II was previously demonstrated to be involved in transcriptional silencing (CITATION), suggesting that the function of ZOP1 in transcriptional silencing is related to Pol II. The localization pattern of ZOP1 in nuclei was investigated by immunofluorescence assay. Anti‐Flag and anti‐Myc antibodies did not produce any visible signals in the nuclei of wild‐type plants (Supplementary Figure S16), but the anti‐Flag antibody produced specific ZOP1 signals in the nuclei of ZOP1‐Flag transgenic plants (FIG-REF). The results show that the ZOP1 is present in the form of either condensed nucleolus‐adjacent foci or dispersed nucleoplasmic speckles (FIG-REF). The condensed nucleolus‐adjacent foci of ZOP1 include the signals that overlap with U2B in the Cajal bodies (FIG-REF). The Cajal body, an snRNP assembly centre, was previously reported to be required for the assembly of the AGO4 effector complex of RdDM (CITATION). U2B, a component of U2 snRNP, was used as a marker for the Cajal body, and AGO4 colocalizes with U2B in the Cajal body (CITATION). Our results suggest that ZOP1 can colocalize with AGO4 at the Cajal body. We tested the relationship between ZOP1 and other canonical RdDM components by immunofluorescence assay. The ZOP1‐Myc transgenic plants were crossed to NRPE1‐Flag, DRM2‐Flag, and NRPD1‐Flag transgenic plants, respectively. Anti‐Flag and anti‐Myc antibodies were used to detect the signals in the nuclei of their F1 plants. The results indicated that ZOP1 partially colocalizes with NRPE1 as well as with DRM2 but not with NRPD1 in the nucleolus‐adjacent foci (FIG-REF). NRPE1 and DRM2 directly associate with chromatin at RdDM target loci. Partial colocalization between ZOP1 and the two RdDM components is consistent with the finding that ZOP1 shares a large number of chromatin targets with the RdDM pathway (FIG-REF; Supplementary Tables S4 and S5). To investigate the genetic relationship between ZOP1 and known RdDM proteins, we crossed ros1zop1 to ros1nrpd1, ros1nrpe1, and ros1ago4, and generated ros1zop1nrpd1, ros1zop1nrpe1, and ros1zop1ago4. The luminescence analysis shows that the combination of zop1 with nrpd1, nrpe1, or ago4 in the ros1 background can enhance the expression of the RD29A‐LUC transgene (FIG-REF). Moreover, we found that zop1 can also enhance the expression of endogenous RD29A in ros1zop1nrpd1, ros1zop1nrpe1, and ros1zop1ago4 (FIG-REF). These results suggest that zop1 has an additive effect with the RdDM mutants nrpd1, nrpe1, and ago4. Involvement of ZOP1 in transcriptional silencing is at least partially independent of the previously characterized RdDM pathway. [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the function of ZOP1 on the silencing of endogenous RdDM targets, we measured the transcript levels of endogenous RdDM target loci in ros1zop1, ros1nrpd1, ros1nrpe1, and ros1ago4 as well as in ros1nrpd1zop1, ros1nrpe1zop1, and ros1ago4zop1. The results show that the zop1 mutation induces the transcript level of a typical RdDM target SDC in the ros1nrpd1 and ros1ago4 backgrounds, whereas the zop1 mutation has no effect on SDC in the ros1nrpe1 background (FIG-REF). Moreover, the zop1 mutation reduces the transcript levels of AtGP1 in the ros1nrpd1, ros1nrpe1, and ros1ago4 backgrounds (FIG-REF). Combination of the zop1 mutation with the RdDM mutants is likely to complicate the transcriptional regulation of RdDM target loci. But we have now known that ZOP1 is likely to act in transcriptional silencing at least partially through an RdDM‐independent pathway. To investigate the possible role of other splicing‐related proteins in RdDM and transcriptional silencing, we surveyed four other splicing mutants (mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14) that show defects in both pre‐mRNA splicing and development (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). MAC3A and MAC3B are the homologues of the conserved yeast PRP19 splicing factor, and MOS4 is a component of the PRP19 complex, an evolutionarily conserved spliceosome‐associated complex (CITATION). MOS12 associates with the MOS4 and is required for proper pre‐mRNA splicing (CITATION). MOS14 is a nuclear‐import receptor for serine/arginine‐rich splicing factors (CITATION). We first tested whether the splicing sites affected by zop1 are also differentially spliced in these four splicing mutants. The results show that in the five indicated zop1‐affected splicing sites, two of them in AT2G38025 and AT3G04400 are affected in mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, but not in mos14, whereas the other three splicing sites in AT1G67090, AT1G23310, and AT3G24503 are correctly spliced in all the four tested splicing mutants (Supplementary Figure S17). The splicing defects of SNC1 and RPS4 caused by mos14 are not present in ros1zop1 (Supplementary Figure S17). Affected splicing sites in the four splicing mutants (mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14) are much different from that in zop1. By small RNA northern blotting, we found that in the four the tested splicing mutants (mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14), the Pol IV‐dependent 24‐nt siRNAs, including solo LTR siRNA and siRNA1003, are reduced (FIG-REF). The results demonstrate that like ZOP1, these splicing‐related proteins are required for siRNA accumulation. The reduction of siRNAs in mac3a3b is comparable to that in nrpe1 and is greater than that in mos4, mos12, or mos14 (FIG-REF). The mos4 mutant has the least effect on siRNA accumulation, whereas the effects of mos12 and mos14 are intermediate (FIG-REF). Together, the four splicing proteins contribute to accumulation of Pol IV‐dependent siRNAs. Interestingly, we found that both miRNA171 and ta‐siRNA255 are reduced in mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14, whereas they are not affected in nrpd1 and nrpe1 as expected (FIG-REF). These splicing proteins are likely to be involved in biogenesis of miRNAs and ta‐siRNAs. It will be interesting to determine how miRNAs and ta‐siRNAs are affected in these splicing mutants in future. [[FIGURE]] Bisulphite sequencing indicated that in the four splicing mutants (mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14), the DNA methylation levels at the CHH sites of AtSN1 are weakly reduced relative to those in wild type, and the reduction is less than that in nrpd1 (FIG-REF). Moreover, the reduction of DNA methylation in these mutants was also confirmed at the newly identified RdDM target AT5G35540 (FIG-REF). The results suggest that not only ZOP1 but also other splicing proteins including MAC3A, MAC3B, MOS4, MOS12, and MOS14 are involved in regulation of DNA methylation. Furthermore, quantitative RT–PCR showed that mac3a3b, mos4, and mos14 partially induce the transcript levels of both solo LTR and AtGP1, whereas mos12 induces the transcript level of solo LTR but has no effect on AtGP1 (FIG-REF). Generally, all four of the tested splicing mutants partially release the silencing of RdDM targets, although the effect is less than that in the RdDM mutants nrpd1 and nrpe1 (FIG-REF). The weak effect of these splicing mutants on the silencing of RdDM targets is comparable to that of zop1. Together, these results suggest that the fully functional splicing machinery is probably involved in Pol IV‐dependent siRNA accumulation, DNA methylation, and transcriptional silencing in Arabidopsis. We carried out quantitative RT–PCR to test whether the transcript levels of major RdDM component‐encoding genes are reduced in the splicing mutants mac3a3b, mos4, mos12, and mos14. The results indicated that DCL3 is weakly reduced in all the four splicing mutants, whereas NRPE1 and RDM1 are weakly reduced in mos12 and mos14 (Supplementary Figure S18). The other RdDM component‐encoding genes are generally not reduced in the four splicing mutants (Supplementary Figure S18). Further studies are required to determine whether the effect of these splicing mutants on RdDM is completely due to the indirect effect of the mutants on the transcript levels of RdDM component‐encoding genes.
!~MM~! Both wild‐type C24 and ros1 mutant plants carry a homozygous RD29A promoter‐driven luciferase transgene and a 35S promoter‐driven NPTII transgene. The ros1 mutant plants with the two transgenes were mutagenized with ethyl methanesulphonate and screened for suppressors of ros1. Plants that emitted a high luminescence were crossed to the ros1 mutant in the Col‐0 background (Salk_045303). The selfed F2 plants were used for map‐based cloning of the mutant. Deep sequencing (Illumina) was carried out to detect the mutation in the localized genome interval of the mutant. The ZOP1 genomic sequence was cloned into the modified plant expression vector pCAMBIA1305 and transformed into ros1zop1 for a complementation test. Total RNA was extracted from the indicated plant materials using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). After contaminating DNA was removed by DNase, total RNA was used for semiquantitative RT–PCR and real‐time RT–PCR. The oligo‐dT or sequence‐specific reverse primers were used for reverse transcription. The single‐stranded cDNA was amplified by Ex‐Taq DNA polymerase (Takara) for semiquantitative RT–PCR and quantitative RT‐PCR. For quantitative RT‐PCR, the results shown were based on at least three replications. Small RNA was extracted as previously described and separated on a 15% polyacrylamide gel at 200 V for 4 h. The separated small RNA was transferred onto hybond‐N+ membranes (Amersham) for small RNA hybridization. The probes of DNA oligonucleotides and PCR products were radiation labelled by [γ‐32P]ATP and [α‐32P]dCTP, respectively. Small RNA hybridization was carried out in PerfectHyb buffer (Sigma) overnight at 38°C. The DNA oligonucleotides that were used are listed in Supplementary Table S10. Genomic DNA of indicated samples was extracted by CTAB and purified by phenol:chloroform (1:1). The DNA in the supernatant was precipitated by ethanol. DNA methylation was tested by bisulphite sequencing and chop‐PCR. For bisulphite sequencing, 2 μg of genomic DNA was sodium bisulphite‐converted and purified using the EpiTect Bisulfite Kit (Qiagen). The purified DNA was amplified and cloned for bisulphite sequencing. For each ecotype, at least 15 samples were sequenced. For chop‐PCR, genomic DNA was digested by DNA methylation‐sensitive restriction enzymes (HaeIII), followed by amplification of the digested DNA at indicated DNA loci. The DNA oligonucleotides used for DNA methylation assay are listed in Supplementary Table S10. The full length of ZOP1 and its truncated forms were cloned in‐frame to the N‐terminal His tag in the pET28a vector, and the constructs were transformed into E. coli strain BL21 (Invitrogen) for expression. The bacterially expressed His fusion proteins were purified by Ni‐NTA His Bind Resin (Novagen) and used for EMSA. EMSA was carried out as described previously with minor modifications (CITATION). The complemented single‐stranded oligonucleotides were annealed to generate double‐stranded DNA and RNA oligonucleotides. All probes were end labelled by [γ‐32P]ATP with T4 polynucleotide kinase. The labelled probes were purified with G‐25 columns (GE Healthcare). The binding assay was carried out in buffer containing 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.6), 50 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA (pH 8.0), 12.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.5% (w/v) BSA, and 5% (w/v) glycerol. The binding reaction was incubated at 25°C for 30 min. The reaction mixtures were separated on 4% non‐denaturing polyacrylamide gels at 200 V for 2 h, and the gels were exposed to X‐ray film for analysis. Protoplasts were isolated from young Arabidopsis leaves as described (CITATION), and nuclei were fixed in 4% formaldehyde and applied to slides. Immunostaining was performed as previously described (CITATION). After nuclei were blocked with 3% BSA in PBS, primary antibodies were incubated with the nuclei overnight at 4°C. Primary antibodies were diluted as follows: rabbit or mouse anti‐Flag (1:200), rabbit or mouse anti‐cMyc (1:200), and mouse anti‐U2B (1:50, lifespan). Secondary anti‐mouse TRITC (Invitrogen) and anti‐rabbit FITC (Invitrogen) were used at 1:200 dilutions. Chromatin was counterstained with DAPI in mounting medium. Images were acquired by SPINNING DISK confocal microscopy, analysed with Volocity software, and processed with Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). Total RNA was extracted from 1‐month‐old seedlings of ros1 and ros1zop1. The mRNA was purified for RNA‐seq library construction and whole transcriptome analysis. The Arabidopsis genome sequences and annotated gene models were downloaded from TAIR10 ( www.arabidopsis.org). Tophat v1.3.1 was used to align the raw reads to genome sequences. Cufflinks (v1.1.0 http://cufflinks.cbcb.umd.edu/) was performed to assemble transcripts and calculate transcript abundances. Differences in RNA transcript levels between ros1 and ros1zop1 were identified by using the Cuffdiff. The presence of more than three FPKM in total exons of a gene was the criterion for gene detection. The cutoff of differential expression depended on the P‐value and ln (FC) (ln of Fold Change). For intron‐retention analysis, CoverageBed was performed to find reads located in intron regions, and Exact Testes in R was used to identify reliable expressed introns. The introns with >80% read coverage and P‐values <0.01 were regarded as intron‐retention events. This method was also used for the analysis of intron deletion events in ros1zop1. Raw Arabidopsis sequence data provided by Illumina were mapped to the modified Tair10 reference genome using Bismark (CITATION). According to our previously sequenced Arabidopsis C24 genome, ∼461 666 SNP sites were identified compared to Tair10 genome. Because ros1, ros1zop1, and ros1nrpd1 are in the C24 background, Tair10 genome was modified according to the identified SNPs. Sequences that mapped to more than one position were removed to retain only reads that mapped uniquely. The methylation level of each cytosine site was represented by the percentage of the number of reads reporting a C relative to the total number of reads reporting a C or T. Only sites with at least five‐fold coverage were included in the results. Gene annotations were downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR). The DNA methylation of annotated protein‐coding genes and TEs was calculated. DNA methylation at CG, CHG, and CHH sites was separately evaluated. Small RNA raw data were processed and mapped to the modified Arabidopsis TAIR10 reference genome. Only perfectly matched 24‐nt siRNAs were extracted for analysis in ros1, ros1nrpd1, ros1zop1, and ros1nrpe1. The small RNAs in 100‐nt‐long windows were counted along the chromosomes, and the counts were adjusted according to the total library size for the comparison and graphic presentation. When the number of combined 24‐nt small RNA reads in 100‐bp windows in WT is significantly higher than that in nrpd1, the siRNAs in the windows are defined as Pol IV‐dependent siRNAs. A 3‐g quantity of flowers from ZOP1‐Flag transgenic plants and wild‐type control plants were used to prepare protein extracts as described previously (CITATION). In brief, the flowers were ground in liquid nitrogen and homogenized in 15 ml of protein extraction buffer (50 mM Tris (pH 7.6), 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP‐40, 0.5 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF, and one protease inhibitor cocktail tablet/50 ml (Roche)). Cell debris was removed by three centrifugations. The supernatant of each sample was incubated with Anti‐Flag M1 agarose (Sigma, A4596) at 4°C for 2.5 h and washed five times with the protein extraction buffer. The affinity‐purified proteins were eluted from the agarose with 3 × Flag peptides (Sigma). The eluted proteins were run on a 12% SDS–PAGE gel and subjected to silver staining with the ProteoSilver Silver Stain Kit (Sigma, PROT‐SIL1). For mass‐spectrometric analysis, proteins on SDS–PAGE gels were de‐stained and digested in‐gel with sequencing grade trypsin (10 ng/μl trypsin, 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate, pH 8.0) at 37°C overnight. The digested peptides were eluted on a capillary column and sprayed into an LTQ mass spectrometer equipped with a nano‐ESI ion source (Thermo Fisher Scientific, USA). Identified peptides were searched in the IPI (International Protein Index) Arabidopsis protein database on the Mascot server (Matrix Science Ltd, UK). For coimmunoprecipitation, the protein extracts were incubated with protein A agarose beads conjugated with the indicated antibody, washed five times, and boiled in SDS–PAGE sample buffer. The boiled extracts were run on a 12% SDS–PAGE gel for western blotting. For coimmunoprecipitation analysis between ZOP1 and NRPD1, NRPE1, or AGO4, the ZOP1‐Flag or ZOP1‐Myc transgenic plants were crossed to NRPD1‐Flag, NPRE1‐Flag, and Myc‐AGO4 transgenic plants, respectively. The offspring plants expressing both fusion proteins were subjected to coimmunoprecipitation.
