!~ABS~! In yeasts and animals, premature entry into mitosis is prevented by the inhibitory phosphorylation of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) by WEE1 kinase, and, at mitosis, WEE1 protein is removed through the action of the 26S proteasome. Although in higher plants WEE1 function has been confirmed in the DNA replication checkpoint, Arabidopsis wee1 insertion mutants grow normally, and a role for the protein in the G2/M transition during an unperturbed plant cell cycle is yet to be confirmed. Here data are presented showing that the inhibitory effect of WEE1 on CDK activity in tobacco BY-2 cell cultures is cell cycle regulated independently of the DNA replication checkpoint: it is high during S-phase but drops as cells traverse G2 and enter mitosis. To investigate this mechanism further, a yeast two-hybrid screen was undertaken to identify proteins interacting with Arabidopsis WEE1. Three F-box proteins and a subunit of the proteasome complex were identified, and bimolecular fluorescence complementation confirmed an interaction between AtWEE1 and the F-box protein SKP1 INTERACTING PARTNER 1 (SKIP1). Furthermore, the AtWEE1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) signal in Arabidopsis primary roots treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 was significantly increased compared with mock-treated controls. Expression of AtWEE1–YFPC (C-terminal portion of yellow fluorescent protein) or AtWEE1 per se in tobacco BY-2 cells resulted in a premature increase in the mitotic index compared with controls, whereas co-expression of AtSKIP1–YFPN negated this effect. These data support a role for WEE1 in a normal plant cell cycle and its removal at mitosis via the 26S proteasome.
!~RES~! The WEE1 antibody recognized a single 56kDa band in proteins extracted in lag (day 1), exponential (day 3), and stationary phase (day 5) of a 7 day subculture of BY-2 cells, indicating good antibody specificity as shown previously with Arabidopsis (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). The CDK inhibitory activity of NtWEE1 was investigated using a WEE1 kinase inhibition assay based on that used with recombinant Z. mays and Solanum lycopersicum WEE1 proteins (CITATIONet al., 1999; CITATIONet al., 2007). This assay tests whether recombinant NtWEE1 can inhibit CDK phosphorylation of histone H1 in vitro. Total CDK activity in this assay is interpreted as the inverse of WEE1 activity, as previously demonstrated for Homo sapiens Wee1 by CITATION). Induction of NtWEE1 in E. coli was tested by western blotting, showing good specificity of the NtWEE1 antibody; purification of the recombinant WEE1 protein using His-beads resulted in a single band of the expected 56kDa on a Coomassie-stained gel (Supplementary Fig. S2 at JXB online). Addition of recombinant NtWEE1 resulted in a 5-fold decrease in CDK activity (CITATION) compared with CDK alone. This shows that recombinant NtWEE1 protein produced in E. coli can negatively regulate CDK activity in vitro as do other plant WEE1 kinases. This is taken to indicate that the WEE1 is inhibiting CDK activity through its kinase activity (see CITATIONet al., 1999). (A) Reduction in CDK activity elicited by the addition of recombinant NtWEE1. HIS6-NtWEE1 fusion protein, induced in E. coli (+IPTG) [compared with uninduced (–IPTG) control] was purified by affinity purification, and added to a kinase assay reaction containing CDKs (200 µg) purified from wild-type N. tabacum BY-2 cell culture protein extracts using p13SUC1 beads and histone H1 substrate; compared with the CDK alone (100 or 200 µg). A representative autoradiograph is shown below the histogram. The incorporation of 32P was assayed by quantification of the bands on the autoradiograph. (B–D) Cell cycle regulation of WEE1 mRNA, protein, and kinase activity in a synchronized wild-type N. tabacum BY-2 cell culture following removal of aphidicolin. (B) Mitotic index profile (dotted line) calculated as the sum of prophase, anaphase, metaphase, and telophase mitotic figures as a percentage of a minimum of 300 cells; mean histone H4 expression level (% max ±SE) (grey bars), mean NtWEE1 expression level (% max ±SE) (white bars), error bars absent when variation about the mean was <5% (n=3). The corresponding cell cycle phases are shown above the mitotic index graph. (C) Immunodetection of NtWEE1 protein extracted from synchrony samples (10 µg of protein per lane) and subjected to western blotting using the NtWEE1 antibody. The histogram displays mean (±SE) WEE1 protein levels as a ratio to an internal control (n=3). Representative western blot and a Coomassie stain loading control are shown below the histogram. (D) Inhibition of CDK activity by NtWEE1. The incorporation of 32P into histone H1 was assayed by quantification of the bands on the autoradiographs and expressed as the percentage reduction in CDK activity (± SE). CDK was pulled-down from 100 µg of BY-2 proteins. A representative autoradiograph is shown below the histogram. Tobacco BY-2 cells were synchronized with aphidicolin and, following removal of this reversible inhibitor of DNA polymerase α (CITATIONet al., 1992), semi-quantitative RT–PCR generated histone H4 profiles showed an S-phase duration of 4h (CITATION). Mitotic indices peaked at 9h (and also at 23h), giving a cell cycle duration of 14h (later part of the curve not shown). The phase durations (shown above CITATION) are highly comparable with previously published cell cycle data for BY-2 cells (see CITATIONet al., 1992; CITATIONet al., 2001; CITATIONet al., 2005). Expression of NtWEE1 peaked at 4h (S/G2; CITATION) and is also highly comparable with published data (CITATIONet al., 2004). WEE1 protein level was highest at 5h (early G2, CITATION), 1h following the WEE1 mRNA peak (CITATION). WEE1 levels dropped significantly (P < 0.05) at 7h (mid-G2) and remained low at 9h (mid-G2 to mitosis) as more cells entered mitosis, before showing a slight rise at 11h (early G1) (CITATION). WEE1 inhibition of CDK activity (CITATION) was maximal when WEE1 was pulled-down from proteins extracted from BY-2 cells at 1h (early S-phase), decreased significantly (P < 0.05) by 4h (S/G2) and again (P <0.05) from 4h to 6h (early G2), and then remained at this level throughout G2 and M phase. The data are thus consistent in showing a drop in WEE1 kinase activity during G2 that remained low when cells entered mitosis. Data for WEE1 protein and WEE1 inhibition of CDK activity suggest strongly that WEE1 is cell cycle regulated in BY-2 cells. However, neither total protein nor activity levels disappeared. Since only ~40% synchrony was achieved (CITATION), residual WEE1 kinase activity may derive from incomplete shut down throughout mitosis or persisted because of unsynchronized interphase cells. To test more precisely the levels of WEE1 protein during the cell cycle, GFP signal was monitored during the synchronized cell cycle of a 35S::AtWEE1–GFP cell line compared with a 35S::GFP-expressing control line. The AtWEE1–GFP signal was detected mainly in nuclei and chromosomes, with background/residual GFP signal in the cytoplasm (CITATION). In the AtWEE1–GFP line, GFP signal is greatly reduced in metaphase and early anaphase. (A) 35S::AtWEE1–GFP (GFP, Hoechst, and merged GFP–Hoechst; Hoechst λ=420nm GFP λ=530nm). Yellow arrows indicate a representative cell; scale bar=50 µm for all images. (B) Nuclear fluorescence frequency (%) of cells sampled from the synchronized 35S::AtWEE1–GFP cell line. n values are indicated on each bar. Contingency χ2=1511 df 4, P < 0.001. A clear nuclear AtWEE1–GFP signal was seen in interphase; however, signal associated with the chromosomes of early and late prophase cells was weaker, followed by an almost complete absence of signal from chromosomes at metaphase and early anaphase but its re-establishment in late anaphase and telophase. This pattern of alteration of AtWEE1–GFP intensity contrasts with a constant GFP signal regardless of cell cycle stage for the 35S::GFP line (Supplementary Fig. S3 at JXB online). Quantification of nuclear fluorescence from >1500 cells in both lines confirmed that in the 35S::AtWEE1–GFP line, GFP signal was undetectable in metaphase cells and only very few prophase cells emitted signal (CITATION). A contingency χ2 indicated a highly significant difference in the relative frequency of fluorescence between stages for the 35S::AtWEE1–GFP line. In contrast, in the 35S::GFP line all cells (interphase and all mitotic stages) emitted a GFP signal and hence would be quantified as 100% were it to be shown in CITATION. The dispersal of AtWEE1 during metaphase was also confirmed in Arabidopsis roots. An Arabidopsis line transformed with the WEE1–GFP construct was crossed with a line transformed with the nuclear envelope marker, AtSUN1–mRFP (CITATIONet al., 2010; CITATION). In the resultant line, the pattern of WEE1–GFP signal during the cell cycle is similar to that seen in BY-2 cells (CITATION). In interphase, a clear nucleoplasmic AtWEE1–GFP signal is visible, surrounded by nuclear envelope labelling of AtSUN1–mRFP (CITATION). During metaphase AtWEE1–GFP signal is essentially absent but a clear AtSUN1–mRFP signal can be observed in mitotic spindle membranes (CITATION). AtWEE1–GFP signal reappears in late anaphase/early telophase cells, while AtSUN1–mRFP is present in the reforming nuclear envelope, and, finally, strong GFP and RFP signals were observed during cytokinesis. Hence, there is a remarkably precise cell cycle regulation of WEE1 with presumed degradation or destabilization of WEE1 when chromosomes align at the metaphase plate for both BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis root cells. AtWEE1–GFP and AtSUN1–mRFP expression in different cell cycle phases in roots of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing both genes. Green colouring indicates AtWEE1–GFP expression, while purple colouring indicates AtSUN1–mRFP expression. Scale bar=10 µm. Yellow arrows indicate a representative cell. The stability of WEE1 protein was also examined in lateral roots of two independent 35S::AtWEE1–GFP-expressing Arabidopsis lines, #10 and #67. In line #10, a weak GFP signal was observed in the nuclei of the basal cells of the lateral root primordia (CITATION), but fluorescence was not detected in the rest of the primordium. In line #67, a fluorescent signal could not be detected in any of the cells of the lateral root primordia (CITATION). In contrast, in the 35S::H2B–YFP line, strong YFP expression was observed throughout the lateral root primordia (CITATION). Lateral root primordia of AtWEE1–GFP lines #10 and #67, and H2B–YFP seedlings. (A and B) Green colouring indicates AtWEE1–GFP expression in two independent lines, #10 and #67. (C) Green indicates H2B expression. Red colouring is propidium iodide counterstain for the cell walls. Representative images of at least five seedlings examined. P, lateral root primordium; BC, basal cells of lateral root primordium. Note that the middle image of (A) is a primordium seen from above, and demarcated by propidium iodide counterstaining. The proteasome inhibitor MG132 was used to determine whether the reduced fluorescent signal observed in the AtWEE1–GFP lines was caused by proteasome-mediated protein degradation. GFP signal clearly increased in AtWEE1–GFP seedlings treated with MG132 relative to the mock-treated seedlings (CITATION) both in the root tips and further up the root. Quantification of the fluorescent signal showed that there was a significant (P < 0.05) 2-fold increase in GFP signal in the MG132-treated seedlings compared with the mock-treated seedlings (CITATION). This demonstrates that the AtWEE1–GFP protein persists when the degradation route via the 26S proteasome is blocked. MG132- and mock-treated 5-day-old AtWEE1–GFP line # 67 seedlings. (A) Confocal images of root tips and more basal regions: green indicates AtWEE1–GFP expression and red is propidium iodide counterstain for the cell walls. Representative images of three seedlings examined for each treatment. To allow for accurate and direct comparison between the two treatments, the confocal settings were not altered between the imaging of the MG132-treated and mock-treated seedlings. (B) GFP signal intensity (±SE). *Significant difference between treatments (P < 0.05; n= ≤466 to ≥2121). AtWEE1 was used as a bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen to search for interacting proteins that might play a regulatory role in its turnover. Approximately 1×107 transformants were screened from a library generated using Arabidopsis primary and secondary root tips (CITATIONet al., 2003). Over 900 interactors were detected by an ability to grow on His– medium and, in a second screen for β-galactosidase activity, 82 of these were confirmed. Sequencing of plasmid insertions revealed 60 different AtWEE1 interaction partners, of which 11 were identified multiple times (Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online). Functionally the interacting proteins could be divided into seven groups (CITATION). Of direct relevance to this work, four proteins associated with ubiquitin-mediated degradation were detected (Supplementary Table S1); each one was only detected once. One of these is a regulatory subunit of the 26S proteasome, while the other three are F-box proteins including SKIP1 (SKP1 INTERACTING PARTNER 1). Functional groups of proteins that interacted with AtWEE1 in a yeast two-hybrid library screen BiFC in BY-2 cells was used to verify the AtSKIP1–AtWEE1 interaction in plant cells, initially by transient transformation. Interacting proteins were mostly localized in the nucleus; however, the interaction was also detected at the cell wall, especially at the junctions between adjacent cells (CITATION). The AtWEE1–YFPC (in the SPYCE vector) and AtSKIP1–YFPN (in the SPYNE vector) constructs were stably co-transformed into BY-2 cells to study the dynamics of the interaction during the cell cycle. The frequency with which an interaction between AtWEE1 and AtSKIP1 was observed in each cell cycle phase was similar to that of AtWEE1–GFP, with a drop in interactions observed between interphase and prophase, and interactions were not observed during metaphase. Interactions were again observed during anaphase and telophase (CITATION). (A) Tobacco BY-2 cells co-transformed with (i) AtWEE1–YFPC in the vector pSPYCE and AtSKIP1–YFPN in the vector pSPYNE; (ii) AtBZIP63 in both pSPYCE and pSPYNE (positive control); and (iii) AtWEE1–YFPC and AtBZIP63–YFPN (negative control); under UV light (left), white light (right), and the two merged (centre). Blue colouring indicates a positive interaction between the two proteins (representative images). (B) Mean nuclear fluorescence frequency (%; ±SE, n=3) in each cell cycle phase in cells from the following transgenic BY-2 lines: AtWEE1–GFP line # 4 (GFP–WEE1) and AtWEE1–YFPC/AtSKIP1–YFPN, line # 6 (WEE1–C/SKIP1-N6). Given an interaction between AtWEE1 and AtSKIP1, the extent to which these genes affected aphidicolin-induced synchronized cell cycles in BY-2 cells was examined. Expression of AtWEE1–YFPC resulted in a mitotic peak at 7h compared with 9h in wild-type BY-2 cells (CITATION, CITATION). The mitotic peak was also earlier (at 4h) when AtWEE1 was expressed in BY-2 cells in the BIN HYG TX vector under an attenuated 35S promoter (Supplementary Fig. S4 at JXB online). However, when AtSKIP1–YFPN was co-expressed with AtWEE1–YFPC, there was an interaction between the two proteins, and the mitotic peak was restored to wild-type timing of 9h (CITATION). Mitotic index (±SE) of BY-2 cell lines: (A) The wild type. (B) AtWEE1–YFPC and (C) AtWEE1–YFPC/AtSKIP1–YFPN line #6 synchronized with aphidicolin compared with the wild type. The timing of the first mitotic peak in each line is shown with an arrow.
!~MM~! Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells were subcultured every 7 d and synchronized as described previously (CITATIONet al., 1995). At hourly intervals following removal of aphidicolin, the mitotic index was derived from scoring ≥300 Hoechst-stained cells per slide in random transects using fluorescence microscopy (Olympus BH2, UV, λ=420nm). Degenerate primers were designed based on the maize ZmWEE1 (accession no. AAD52983) and AtWEE1 (accession number: CAD28679) (Supplementary Table S2 available at JXB online) and used to amplify a 339bp fragment of NtWEE1 from N. tabacum var. Samsun genomic DNA. The PCR product was cloned in pGEM T-Easy (Promega, Southampton, UK) and sequenced. One cycle of 3’ rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and two cycles of 5’ RACE (using the BD SMART™ RACE cDNA amplification Kit, Clontech) furbished the whole open reading frame (ORF) (EMBL database accession nos: AJ866274, AJ866275, AJ866276, and AJ866277). The entire ORF was amplified (primers are given in Supplementary Table S2) from BY-2 cDNA and cloned into pTA7002 by digestion with XhoI/SpeI, creating pTA7002 NtWEE1. The ORF was fully sequenced (EMBL database accession no. AM408785). Clustal W within DNAstar (Lasergene), BIOEDIT version 7.0.1 (CITATION), and MEGA software version 3.1 (CITATIONet al., 2007) were used to compare the tobacco ORF with other wee1 sequences. pTA7002 NtWEE1 was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 and GV3101 and used to transform BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis var. Columbia, respectively, as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2005). Total RNA was extracted from BY-2 cells using TRI reagent (Sigma Aldrich, Gillingham, UK) and residual genomic DNA removed by DNase treatment (Ambion, Austin, TX, USA). RNA (5 µg) was reacted with Superscript II reverse transcriptase (GIBCO, Paisley, UK) and used for semi-quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) of NtWEE1 expression in synchronized cells (primers are listed in Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online). Histone H4 primers (Supplementary Table S2) were used to verify cell cycle stage, and 18S rRNA primers for normalization (CITATIONet al., 2005). For all semi-quantitative RT–PCRs, the cycle number was optimized such that the amount of product was proportional to the amount of input total RNA, verified using a dilution series of cDNAs in each PCR. Products of three replicate PCRs were quantified using ethidium bromide-stained agarose gels and GeneGenius software (Syngene, Cambridge, UK). Protein extraction from N. tabacum BY-2 cell cultures was essentially performed as described in CITATIONet al. (2000). Protein extract concentrations were determined using a Bradford assay (CITATION; Bradford Reagent, Sigma, Dorset, UK) to ensure equal loading on SDS–gels and western blots (20 µg). Loading was also verified using replicate Coomassie brilliant blue-stained gels. The WEE1 antibody used was as described in CITATIONet al. (2009). Western blotting was as described in CITATIONet al. (2009) using a WEE1 antibody dilution of 1:1000 followed by α-rabbit IgG (1:2500) (Sigma, Dorset, UK). Proteins were visualized by western blotting using ECL reagents (Amersham Biosciences, Amersham, UK) and quantified using an internal control to normalize across different gels and GeneGenius software (Syngene, Cambridge, UK). Quantified data presented are the means of three independent western blots for protein levels and two gels for the kinase assays (±SE). The coding sequences of NtWEE1 and At14-3-3ω were PCR amplified (primers are listed in Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online) using Pfu polymerase and cloned into the pET15B vector system using NdeI/BamHI. The insertions were verified by sequencing and the plasmids were transformed into Escherichia coli DE3 Rosetta pLysS cells. Recombinant protein was induced with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and the purity of the recombinant proteins was analysed by SDS–PAGE. The CDK substrate for the kinase assays was pulled down from N. tabacum BY-2 cells using a p13SUC1 agarose conjugate (Upstate) from 100–250 µg of protein extract. WEE1 protein was immunoprecipitated from 100 µg of protein extracts from N. tabacum BY-2 cells at different times following synchronization using WEE1 antibody raised as described in CITATIONet al. (2009). The histone H1 assay was essentially as described in CITATIONet al. (2000) using 5 µl of NtWEE1 antibody. Samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE. Products were quantitated from autoradiographs using GeneGenius software (Syngene). Results are expressed as the percentage inhibition of CDK activity normalized to the control CDK activity without addition of recombinant WEE1. Results are based on two independent replicates. The bait plasmid pBD-Gal4-cam AtWEE1 was constructed as described in CITATIONet al. (2009). An Arabidopsis seedling root primary cDNA library was constructed in the HybriZAP-2.1 lambda vector (Stratagene) (CITATIONet al., 2003). The primary library was amplified and converted by in vivo excision into a GAL4 transcriptional activation domain pAD-GAL4-2.1 library according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Stratagene). Both bait and cDNA library were transformed into S. cerevisiae strain YRG-2 [MATa ura3-52 his3-200 ade2-101 lys2-801 trp1-901 leu 2–3, 112 gal4-542 gal80-538 LYS2::UASGAL1-TATAGAL1-HIS3 URA3::UASGAL4 17mers(x3)-TATACYC1-lacZ] (Stratagene). Approximately 1–2×106 transformants were plated onto His– synthetic dextrose minimal medium and screened as described in CITATIONet al. (2003) using both the HIS3 and LacZ reporter genes. Interacting proteins were identified by colony PCR and sequenced. Sequences were identified using the BLAST program (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). The AtWEE1 ORF was amplified and cloned into the BiFC vector containing the C-terminal portion of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), pkanII-SPYCE(M) (CITATIONet al., 2008) as described in CITATIONet al. (2009). The AtSKIP1 ORF was PCR amplified (primers are listed in Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online) and cloned using the AscI/XmaI sites into the BiFC vector fusing the SKIP1 ORF in-frame with the N-terminal portion of YFP, pSPYNE (CITATIONet al., 2004). The constructs were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 and used to co-transform transiently (as described in CITATIONet al., 2009) and transform stably BY-2 cells as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2005). Cells were monitored for fluorescence using fluorescence microscopy (Olympus BH2, UV, λ=420nm). AtWEE1 under the 35S promoter in the BIN HYG TX vector was assembled as described in CITATIONet al. (2012). A WEE1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein construct was created by amplifying the AtWEE1 ORF (using the primers listed in Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online) and cloned into the Gateway (Invitrogen) vector system to create an entry clone in pDonr207. The insert was then transferred to pGFP-N-Bin (Invitrogen) to create an N-terminal fusion. The constructs were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404 for transformation into BY-2 cells and A. tumefaciens GV3101 for transformation into Arabidopsis var. Columbia as described above. The presence of the transgene was checked by PCR (for primers, see Table S2; data not shown). The 35S::GFP BY-2-transformed line was kindly donated by Dr Lukás Fischer (CITATION). Both cell lines were synchronized with aphidicolin (CITATIONet al., 2005) and samples were stained with Hoechst. GFP and Hoechst were visualized using an Olympus BX61 microscope at λ=380nm or 530nm. Where GFP signal was absent following Hoechst staining (35S::GFP line), further images were taken using differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy. Arabidopsis lines expressing WEE1–GFP were selected based on GFP fluorescence visualized as above and crossed with a line expressing AtSUN1–mRFP (monomeric red fluorescent protein) (CITATIONet al., 2010). Root tips of 5- to 7-day-old seedlings were imaged using an oil immersion ×40 lens on a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope. GFP was excited with a 488nm argon laser and fluorescence was captured with a 505–530nm bandpass filter; mRFP was excited with a 543nm helium–neon laser and fluorescence was captured with a 560–615nm bandpass filter. Images were captured with the Zeiss LSM software and exported in TIF format. AtWEE1–GFP localization was observed using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS spectral confocal microscope employing 5-day-old seedlings grown on MS medium (CITATION). Cell walls were counterstained using propidium iodide. GFP fluorescence was excited using a 488nm argon ion laser line and detected between 500nm and 550nm. Propidium iodide fluorescence was excited using a 543nm helium–neon ion laser line and detected between 600nm and 650nm. Images were captured using Leica confocal software. The H2B-YFP Arabidopsis line was kindly donated by Professor J. Murray, School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, Wales, UK. Five-day-old seedlings grown as above were carefully removed from the surface of the agar and incubated with MG132 [stock solution 25mg ml–1 in dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) diluted to 50 µM in liquid MS medium or, for the mock treatment, an equal volume of DMSO instead of MG132 stock] and incubated with occasional gentle agitation in the light for 6h at 21 °C. Seedlings were then transferred to fresh liquid MS medium and used for confocal imaging as above. Fluorescence was quantified using ImageJ software.
