!~ABS~! Formation of clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs) requires the scaffolding adaptor protein (AP) complexes, which are conserved across all eukaryotes. The Arabidopsis genome encodes five AP complexes (AP-1 to AP-5), and each complex consists of four subunits. In this study, we characterized the poorly defined AP-1 complex by using genetics, proteomics and live cell imaging. We showed that the AP-1 µ adaptin subunit (AP1M2) was localized to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and interacted physically with the AP-1 subunits in Arabidopsis. During treatment with brefeldin A (BFA), the functional fluorophore-tagged AP1M2 relocated to the BFA compartment. The AP1M2 loss-of-function mutant ap1m2 displayed deleterious growth defects, which were particularly evident in the compromised cytokinesis that was revealed by the presence of cell wall stubs in multinucleate cells. Immunolocalization of the cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE (KN) in ap1m2 showed that KN was mislocalized and aggregated around the division plane, while a secretory marker targeting to the cell plate remained unaffected. Taken together, we propose that the AP-1 complex is required for cell plate-targeted trafficking of KN in dividing plant cells, and that it has a common role in mediating plant and yeast/animal cytokinesis systems which are fundamentally different.
!~RES~! To be comparable with the nomenclature for AP complexes of the other organisms, the following nomenclature was used for the Arabidopsis AP-1 subunit-encoding loci: AP1M1 (At1g10730, muB2); AP1M2 (At1g60780, muB1); AP1/2B1 (At4g11380); AP1/2B2 (At4g23460); AP1G1 (At1g60070); AP1G2 (At1g23900); AP1S1 (At2g17380); and AP1S2 (At4g35410). The AP1M2 locus was formerly denoted as At-µB2-Ad (GenBank accession No. AC002292) (CITATION). To better characterize the AP-1 complex, we first generated transgenic plants that stably express the green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein of AP1M2. The C-terminal GFP AP1M2 fusion protein (AP1M2–GFP) was constructed as a genomic fragment and expressed under the native promoter of AP1M2. Anti-GFP immunoblot analysis using the total protein extracted from homozygous seedlings of the transgenic plant detected a single band corresponding to 79 kDa, which was in agreement with the predicted molecular weight of AP1M2–GFP (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine the in vivo AP-1 adaptin subunit composition, we performed immunoprecipitation using the AP1M2–GFP transgenic plants. Total protein extracted from 6-day-old seedlings was subjected to anti-GFP immunoprecipitation. The immunoprecipitates were separated by SDS–PAGE and stained with fluorescent dye or analyzed on anti-GFP immunoblots. The transgenic plant expressing free GFP was used as the negative control. Although free GFP appeared as a single 30 kDa band, AP1M2–GFP pulled down an array of immunoprecipitated proteins of various sizes (Fig. 2A). To determine the identities of proteins in the immunoprecipitates, mass spectrometry analysis was performed with LTQ-Orbitrap on peptides prepared from in-gel digestion. After cross-checking with the protein pool from the free GFP control to eliminate unspecific interactors, we showed that AP1M2 interacted with five putative AP-1 adaptins encoded in the A. thaliana genome (Fig. 2B, C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Confocal microscopy analysis of the AP1M2–GFP transgenic plants revealed that AP1M2 was expressed ubiquitously in all tissues. It appeared as mobile punctate structures and diffused fluorescence throughout the cytosol (Fig. 1B). To determine the subcellular localization of AP1M2 in Arabidopsis, we followed the co-localization, if any, between AP1M2–GFP and the styryl dye FM4-64, which has been widely used as a marker for endocytosis and endocytic vesicle trafficking in living eukaryotic cells (CITATION) because it sequentially labels endomembrane compartments. Following intracellular internalization, one of the earliest organelles labeled by FM4-64 is the TGN (CITATION). AP1M2–GFP displayed excellent co-localization with FM4-64-labeled punctate structures after 5 min of staining (Fig. 3A–C). This rapid co-localization suggests that AP1M2 may reside on the TGN. To show that this was the case, we stained the AP1M2–GFP-expressing seedlings with FM4-64 for 5 min followed by 1 h of 50 µM brefeldin A (BFA) treatment. BFA is a fungal toxin that is known to cause the agglomeration of the TGN and endosomal membranes to form BFA compartments in Arabidopsis root cells (CITATION). Therefore co-localization of AP1M2–GFP with the BFA compartments would support the notion that AP1M2 is localized to the TGN. As expected, BFA treatment caused the relocation of AP1M2–GFP to the core of BFA compartments that are labeled by FM4-64 (Fig. 3D–I). This result was consistent with the rapid co-localization between AP1M2–GFP and FM4-64 after just 5 min of incubation, and strongly indicated that AP1M2 resided on the TGN. Notably, BFA treatment also diminished all AP1M2–GFP-labeled punctate structures and caused the cytosolic pool of AP1M2–GFP to decrease (Fig. 3D, G). These results indicated that AP1M2–GFP trafficking was in a BFA-sensitive pathway.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we confirmed the subcellular localization of AP1M2–GFP by performing a series of co-localization experiments using well-established fluorescent markers. Transgenic lines stably expressing each of a TGN marker [VACUOLAR H (+)-ATPase subunit a1 (VHAa1)–monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) (CITATION) and mRFP–SYP43 (SYNTAXIN OF PLANTS43) (CITATION)], a Golgi marker [mCherry–SYP32 (CITATION)] and pre-vacuolar compartment markers [mRFP–Ara7 (CITATION) and SORTIN NEXIN1 (SNX1)–mRFP (CITATION)] were used for crossing with the AP1M2–GFP line. Confocal microscopy visualization showed that AP1M2–GFP co-localized exclusively with VHAa1–mRFP and mRFP–SYP43; no co-localization was detected with mCherry–SYP32, mRFP–Ara7 or SNX1–mRFP (Fig. 3J–X). Furthermore, AP1M2–GFP was sensitive to the V-ATPase inhibitor concanamycin A (Fig. 4), which caused the aggregation of the TGN (CITATION). Taking these results together, we concluded that AP1M2 is a TGN-localized adaptin.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the cellular functions of AP1M2, we isolated the T-DNA insertion mutant line FLAG_293C11 from the Versaille collection to characterize the AP1M2 loss-of-function mutant. Sequencing analysis showed that the T-DNA was inserted into the sixth exon (Fig. 5A), and reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis indicated that FLAG_293C11 was a null allele (Fig. 5B). We subsequently renamed FLAG_293C11 as ap1m2-1. A homozygous ap1m2-1 was viable but showed deleterious growth phenotypes (Fig. 5D, E). During germination, ap1m2-1 grew normally like the segregating wild-type or AP1M2+/− heterozygous seedlings. At 6 d after germination, root elongation and leaf development in ap1m2-1 were arrested. The ap1m2-1 seedlings showed distorted apical growth with highly curled leaves and extremely rough and bloated surfaces (Fig. 5E). While trichomes in ap1m2-1 were unbranched compared with the wild type (Fig. 5F, G), the stomata developed normally with the one-cell-spacing rule strictly obeyed (Fig. 5G). The ap1m2-1 plants eventually entered the reproductive stage and generated deformed flowers, from which a limited number of seeds were produced.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To rule out the possibility that the arrested growth observed in the ap1m2-1 mutant resulted from the indirect consequences of a second site mutation in unlinked T-DNA, we generated transgenic plants in the Columbia (Col) background that constitutively expressed an artificial microRNA (amiRNA) that targeted AP1M2 (Fig. 5A, red line). These transgenic lines phenocopied the arrested growth observed in ap1m2-1 (Supplementary Fig. S1). Next, we attempted to complement the mutant phenotype in ap1m2-1 by using the AP1M2–GFP construct described above. Because ap1m2-1 was sterile and could not be used for transformation experiments, we transformed the heterozygous T-DNA plants (AP1M2+/−) with AP1M2–GFP and genotyped all transformants to identify homozygous ap1m2-1. We successfully identified seven transformants that were all ap1m2-1 homozygous. All ap1m2-1 homozygotes that harbored AP1M2–GFP showed normal plant growth with no obvious growth defects (Fig. 5C, D). Therefore, complementation of the mutant phenotype in ap1m2-1 with an exogenous wild-type copy of AP1M2 provided unequivocal evidence that deletion of AP1M2 led to growth arrest in Arabidopsis, and AP1M2 was required for normal plant development from the seedling stage to the mature plant stage. Furthermore, the complementation of the ap1m2-1 phenotype by AP1M2–GFP convincingly demonstrated the functionality of AP1M2–GFP, therefore validating the TGN localization of AP1M2. Given the prominent roles of AP complexes in endosomal trafficking as revealed in mammalian systems, we first investigated the dynamics of endocytosis in the ap1m2-1 mutant and in wild-type plants. To this end, we followed the FM4-64 uptake in a time-lapse manner. In wild-type AP1M2+/+ plants, FM4-64 reached its final destination at the vacuolar membrane after 1 h of incubation at room temperature (Fig. 6, upper panel). However, in ap1m2-1 cells, FM4-64 never reached the vacuolar membrane within the same time frame. Instead, large membrane aggregates were formed after 35 min (Fig. 6, lower panel). The uptake of FM4-64 in ap1m2-1 was not significantly different from that in the wild-type plants, although a slight delay was observed (Fig. 6, lower panel). This result suggested that AP1M2 was not be directly involved in endocytic uptake at the PM. Detailed inspection of the FM4-64-labeled ap1m2-1 seedlings revealed peculiar structures that accumulated in the cotyledon epidermal cells. These structures were morphologically distinct from the large membrane aggregates observed in the root cells, and strongly resembled the BFA compartments that represented endomembrane agglomeration in response to BFA treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Intriguingly, we observed a large number of cell wall stubs in the cotyledon of ap1m2-1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 7A, B), which suggested that there were defects in cytokinesis. Mutants that are defective in cytokinesis are usually characterized by the presence of cell wall stubs and multinucleate dividing cells (CITATION). To determine if ap1m2-1 conformed to the criteria of a cytokinesis mutant, we examined the ultrastructure of ap1m2-1 cells by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Cell wall stubs were readily detected in the cotyledon (Fig. 7C, arrows) and root meristem (Fig. 7D, E, arrows). Free (unfused) vesicles clustered around the cell wall stubs (Fig. 7E, asterisks), which resembled those observed in knolle and BFA-treated gnl1 seedlings (CITATION). In agreement with the cytokinesis defects, the curled leaves with rough and bloated surfaces in ap1m2-1 mutant (Fig. 5E) are likely consequences of the enlarged cell size due to incomplete cytokinesis. The same phenotype had previously been described in other cytokinesis mutants such as knolle, keule and hinkel (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The syntaxin KNOLLE (KN) is a cytokinesis-specific SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) protein that mediates vesicle fusion at the growing cell plate (CITATION, CITATION). To facilitate vesicle fusion, the Sec1/Munc18 protein KEULE stabilizes KN in its open conformation at the cell division plane (CITATION, CITATION). The trafficking pathway of KN during somatic cytokinesis has been mapped out previously (CITATION). Newly synthesized KN is delivered to the growing cell plate via the secretory pathway; on mediating homotypic fusion at the cell plate, the KN is targeted to the vacuole for degradation by passing through the multivesicular body (CITATION, CITATION). Because AP1M2 is localized to the TGN, which is a sorting station where secretory and endocytic pathways converge, it is possible that the AP1M2-scaffolded vesicles may target KN to the cell plate from the TGN or may remove KN from the cell plate to the vacuole. Therefore, we examined KN localization in ap1m2-1 dividing cells by using immunolocalization. In wild-type root tip meristematic cells, KN appeared as patches that were scattered in the cytoplasm during metaphase (Fig. 7F) and anaphase (Fig. 7G). At the onset of telophase (Fig. 7H) and throughout cytokinesis (Fig. 7I), KN-positive signals accumulated predominantly at the growing cell plate until the completion of cell division (Fig. 7H, I). In ap1m2-1 dividing cells, the localization pattern of KN was indistinguishable from that in the wild-type control (Fig. 7J, K). However, during telophase, KN formed large aggregations around the cell plate, although in some cases a portion of the KN-positive signals was still localized correctly at the cell plate (Fig. 7L). Aggregation of KN would eventually lead to the aberrant or incomplete formation of the cell plate throughout cytokinesis (Fig. 7M). The KN aggregation observed in the ap1m2-1 dividing cells was in sharp contrast to the largely unperturbed secretory marker, secRFP (CITATION), targeting to the cell plate. By stably expressing secRFP in the ap1m2-1 plants, RFP signal was clearly observed at the cell wall stubs (Fig. 7N–W, arrowheads), indicating that the secretory pathway to the cell plate was normal before cell plate expansion was compromised. Therefore, we concluded that the ap1m2-1 loss-of-function mutation caused the mislocalization of the cytokinesis-specific KN, which was responsible for the compromised cytokinesis observed in ap1m2-1.
!~MM~! The T-DNA insertion line FLAG293_C11 was acquired from the ABRC collection. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Columbia and Wassilewskija were used as the wild type in this study. Immunoprecipitates of AP1M2–GFP were extracted from 6-day-old AP1M2–GFP-expressing seedlings using µMACS epitope tag protein isolation kits (Miltenyi Biotec). Mass spectrometry to identify the AP1M2–GFP immunoprecipitates was performed as described previously (CITATION). Five-day-old seedlings were fixed and immunolabeled as previously described (CITATION). The primary antibody rabbit anti-KN was used at 1 : 2,000; the secondary antibodies goat anti-rabbit IgG Alexa Fluor 488 and goat anti-rabbit IgG Alexa Fluor 405 were used at 1 : 400. To visualize BFA compartments, the AP1M2–GFP-expressing seedlings were stained with 5 µM FM4-64 for 5 min, followed by 1 h incubation in 50 µM BFA at room temperature before proceeding to confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). For concanamycin A treatment, seedlings were incubated in 2 µM concanamycin A for 30 min. To measure endocytosis kinetics, wild-type AP1M2-1+/+ and ap1m2-1 seedlings were stained for 2 min, and samples were immediately imaged with CLSM by capturing images at 5 min intervals. Confocal images were acquired using a Zeiss LSM780. For scanning electron microscopy (SEM) fixation, seedlings were incubated in fixation solution [6.8% (v/v) 37% formalin, 2.5% (v/v) acetic acid, 45% (v/v) ethanol] overnight at room temperature. Fixed seedlings were subjected to serial dehydration in 50 (twice), 60, 70, 80, 90, 99.5 and 100% ethanol for 20 min for each step, followed by an overnight dehydration in 100% ethanol. Finally, the seedlings were coated in gold using a JEOL Fine Coater (model JFC-1200) and imaged with a table-top microscope Miniscope TM-1000 (Hitachi). TEM analysis was conducted by the Tokai Electron Microscopy service using chemical fixation. The AP1M2–GFP construct was synthesized as follows. A genomic fragment (including the promoter region) was amplified using primers At1g60780-F and At1g60780-R, sequenced, and expressed as a GFP fusion protein from the binary vector pGWB4. To construct mRFP–Ara7, the coding sequence of Ara7 was amplified using primers Ara7-F and Ara7-R and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO, sequenced and subcloned into pGWB655. For semi-quantitative RT–PCR of AP1M2, primers RT µ1AF0 and At106780-R were used. For genotyping of endogenous AP1M2 and T-DNA insertion, the primer pairs LP2+R and LB4+R were used, respectively. See Supplementary Table S2 for primer DNA sequences.
