!~ABS~!  This work shows that overexpression of the WUS gene from Arabidopsis enhanced the expression of embryogenic competence and triggered organogenesis from some cells of the regenerated embryo-like structures.  Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation of cotton was described in the late 1980s, but is still time consuming and largely genotype dependant due to poor regeneration. To help solve this bottleneck, we over-expressed the WUSCHEL (WUS) gene, a homeobox transcription factor cloned in Arabidopsis thaliana, known to stimulate organogenesis and/or somatic embryogenesis in Arabidopsis tissues cultured in vitro. The AtWUS gene alone, and AtWUS gene fused to the GFP marker were compared to the GFP gene alone and to an empty construct used as a control. Somatic embryogenesis was improved in WUS expressed calli, as the percentage of explants giving rise to embryogenic tissues was significantly higher (×3) when WUS gene was over-expressed than in the control. An interesting result was that WUS embryogenic lines evolved in green embryo-like structures giving rise to ectopic organogenesis never observed in any of our previous transformation experiments. Using our standard in vitro culture protocol, the overexpression of AtWUS in tissues of a recalcitrant variety did not result in the production of regenerated plants. This achievement will still require the optimization of other non-genetic factors, such as the balance of exogenous phytohormones. However, our results suggest that targeted expression of the WUS gene is a promising strategy to improve gene transfer in recalcitrant cotton cultivars.
!~RES~! We have analyzed the effect of WUSCHEL overexpression during regeneration via somatic embryogenesis, from the appearance of embryogenic tissues through the development of somatic embryos. AtWUS-expressing tissues were compared to controls with regard to developmental and morphological characteristics. Figure 1 summarizes the successive steps of the regeneration process for both control and AtWUS-expressing calli. In six independent experiments, each including ~100 explants per construct, we observed a significant increase in the percentage of embryogenic lines in calli where WUS was overexpressed (Table 1). AtWUS overexpressors yielded 3–4 times more embryogenic lines than control GFP overexpressors. Variability between experiments probably reflects the heterogeneity of the starting material. For example, experiments 1 and 2 were done with a different seed batch than experiment 3.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] The positive effect of AtWUS overexpression was confirmed in another experiment where pGWB1 was used as the second control (repetition 7 in Table 1). This result shows that, the GFP gene has no detrimental effect on somatic embryogenesis. The percentage of explants giving rise to embryogenic tissues was statistically higher when the fusion AtWUS-GFP is overexpressed compared to AtWUS. In some cases, we have observed the appearance of embryogenic calli directly on the explant expressing the fusion AtWUS-GFP (Fig. 2). Compared to the GFP control, AtWUS overexpressor calli produced many more embryogenic cell clusters (Fig. 3a, b). The clusters contained dark blue-stained active cells, indicating a high rate of soluble proteins, with a thick cell wall, a big nucleus and a single nucleolus (Fig. 3b′). These cytological features are common to embryogenic cells in general whatever the species (Michaux-Ferrière and Schwendiman CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The macroscopic morphology of embryogenic lines overexpressing GFP was identical to that of lines we previously transformed with GUS gene or various genes of interest (more than five different types). The tissues overexpressing GFP have passed through the classical stages leading to somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration, typically observed in cotton (Fig. 1). Different stages of differentiation are usually found in a single cotton embryogenic line and the embryogenic lines can simultaneously proliferate and form embryos during several years on hormone-free medium (Fig. 1d). Accordingly, control embryogenic lines, including those overexpressing GFP, produced several types of structures: aggregates of embryogenic cells, pro-embryos and embryos at different stages of development (Fig. 1d, e). Embryogenic lines overexpressing AtWUS differed from this typical scenario and produced tissues going through three distinct stages of differentiation. The first stage (S1) corresponded to embryogenic aggregates same as control at the time of appearance but that rapidly evolved in clusters, initially forming small pale yellow round structures (Fig. 1d1), then growing into large round structures distinguished as the second stage (S2) (Fig. 1d2). In the third stage (S3), these structures evolved into even larger green masses, usually not observed during cotton regeneration (Fig. 1d3). At stage 3 and beyond, these structures can exhibit characteristics of somatic embryos with a well-organized root pole (Fig. 4c). We conclude that the formation of abnormal embryo-like structures results from the constitutive expression of AtWUS. [[FIGURE]]  Tissues in embryogenic lines overexpressing either AtWUS or GFP were conducted. Similar to control embryogenic tissues, the AtWUS-induced S3 embryo-like structures can be maintained on a hormone-free medium, through multiplication of similar adventitious S3 embryos produced by “budding” (Fig. 1d3). More than 100 embryogenic lines were thereby subcultured with a stable phenotype for over 2 years. Despite the fact that embryoids over expressing WUSCHEL have never gone into differentiation of shoots, ectopic leaf-like structures were produced by these embryoid formations (Figs. 3c, 4). This phenomenon has never been observed on control somatic embryos. Histological examination showed that these ectopic leafy structures arise from the peripheral zone of the embryo-like structures where cells actively divide (Figs. 3c, d, 5e, f). The leaf-like formations developed on embryos expressing AtWUS alone as well as AtWUS-GFP. In the latter case, the corresponding GFP fluorescence was detected in the nucleus as expected for the AtWUS fusion protein. Confocal imaging of S3 embryogenic-like formations expressing AtWUS-GFP revealed that signal was highest in the globular formations arising at the peripheral zone (Fig. 5c, d). These formations are constituted of active meristematic cells as shown by NBB coloration (Fig. 5a, b). This observation suggests that the expression of AtWUS leads to the reactivation of cells giving rise to organogenic structures. [[FIGURE]]  Some of the embryogenic lines transformed with the AtWUS or GFP-AtWUS transgenes did not show a developmental pattern giving rise to embryo-like structures. Instead, they only grew as proliferating tissues without any embryonic differentiation, remaining at stage S1. Therefore, we tested the WUSCHEL expression in this type of tissue as well as in the S3 structures. RT-PCRs have been done with tissues exhibiting globular green masses (Fig. 1d3) and cultures of undifferentiated WUS lines. All tissues were sampled after the same delay of 1 year in in vitro culture. AtWUS expression was only detected in embryogenic S3 structures (Fig. 6). The results indicate that transformed embryogenic tissue not evolving into S2 and S3 embryo-like structures do not express AtWUS, confirming that S3 formations and ectopic leaf-like structures result from overexpression of AtWUS. [[FIGURE]]  Endogenous IAA levels were measured in AtWUS overexpressing embryogenic callus and in GFP overexpressors, for two independent experiments with ten samples. No differences were seen for IAA content between AtWUS (1.68 pg.mg−1) and GFP (1.31 pg mg−1) expressing lines (Kruskal–Wallis rank sum test, p value = 0.32).
!~MM~! Delinted cotton seeds of the Coker 310 variety were sterilized in a bayrochlor (Bayrol) solution (0.3 % active chlorine) for 30 min, rinsed with sterile water and sown in test tubes on a half strength MS medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) supplemented with Morel and Wetmore vitamins (Morel and Wetmore CITATION) 10 g/l sucrose and solidified with agar 8 g/L. Seedlings were grown in a culture room at 29° ± 1 °C under a low light intensity (4 μmol m−2 s—1) for 5 days. Hypocotyl fragments of 4–5 mm in length were used as explants. Explants were placed on a basic medium (BM) composed of MS mineral salts (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) supplemented with vitamins according to Morel and Wetmore (Morel and Wetmore CITATION) and 20 g/L glucose, solidified with 4 g/L agarose (Litex, LSM 5000, Lonza Copenhagen). All the media used in our experiments had a pH adjusted at 5.8 and were autoclaved 20 min at 115 °C. For callogenesis and embryogenesis induction, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (0.1–0.05 mg/L) and kinetin (0.1–0.05 mg/L) were added. After 2–6 months, embryogenic clusters (Fig. 1c) appeared on the calli; they were excised and subcultured on a new medium to maintain embryogenic lines. The new medium was composed of the same Basic Medium containing 30 g/L sucrose instead of glucose and was free of phytohormones. Tissues were subcultured every 4 weeks. Control and WUS-overexpressing embryogenic clusters were isolated on the same basic medium. [[FIGURE]]  Cultures of A. tumefaciens were initiated from a single plated colony or from glycerol stocks and grown overnight at 28 °C with shaking (150 rpm) in liquid Luria–Bertani medium containing 50 mg/L kanamycin, carbenicilin and rifampicin, to mid-log phase (OD660 = 0.9–1.2). The A. tumefaciens cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in liquid inoculation medium same as the BM plant medium. The A. tumefaciens culture was then diluted 1/50 for explant inoculation. Hypocotyl fragments were dipped in the A. tumefaciens suspension culture for 25 min. The bacterial suspension was then removed and the explants were wiped on filter paper to remove excess bacteria. Explants were placed on callus induction medium (BM medium supplemented containing 2,4-D and kinetin at the concentration of 0.1 mg/L) at 25 °C for 48 h for co-cultivation and then subcultured on the same callus induction medium supplemented with 25 mg/L of kanamycin and 500 mg/L of cefotaxime. Subcultures were performed every 14 days. Cefotaxime concentration was decreased gradually to 250 mg/L after the second subculture, 125 mg/L after the fourth subculture. The cultures were kept at 29° ± 1 °C under 16–8 h photoperiod. Four constructs were made using the pGWB Gateway cloning series (Nakagawa et al. CITATION): pGWB2-WUS (35S:WUS), pGWB5-WUS (35S:WUS-GFP fusion), pGWB2-GFP (35S:GFP), and pGWB1 (empty vector: no promoter, no gene). pGWB2-GFP and pGWB1 were used as controls in transformation experiments. The pENTR-WUS cDNA (provided by Pr. Laux’ laboratory, University of Freiburg, Germany) was cloned in the REGIA project (Paz-Ares and The REGIA Consortium CITATION). The WUS cDNA was amplified from A. thaliana using specific primers AtWUS-1 (5′ATGGAGCCGCCACAGC) and AtWUS-2 (5′CATGTTCAGACGTAGCTC) and cloned into the pCR II TOPO blunt vector (Invitrogen). Subsequently, the WUS open reading frame (ORF) was amplified with the primers attB1AtWUS (5′AAGGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTGCATGGAGCCGCCACAGC) and attB2AtWUS (5′AAGGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTGCCATGTTCAGACGTAGCT) which were used to amplify AtWUS and recombined the gene into pDONR201 (Invitrogen). The pENTR-GFP was obtained by PCR amplification of GFP gene from the pGWB5 vector using attB1GFP (5′GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCCATGAGAGGATCCATGGTGAGCAA) and attB2GFP (5′GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCC) and recombination into pDONR207 (Invitrogen). The pENTR-delta used for deleting gateway cassette from pGWB1 was obtained by modification of pENTR11 (Invitrogen). The ccdB gene for negative selection was deleted from pENTR11 by SalI–XhoI restriction enzyme digestion and religation. The inserts in pENTR-WUS, pENTR-GFP and pENTR-delta were transferred by LR recombination in the destination binary vectors pGWB2, pGWB5 and pGWB1, respectively. The fragment generated by PCR, the ligated junctions and the cloned fragments were verified by sequencing in all vectors. These plasmids were transferred into the A. tumefaciens strain C58::pGV2260 (Deblaere et al. CITATION) by electroporation. Total RNA was isolated from 100 mg samples with the RNeasy mini kit (QIAGEN S.A., Courtabeuf, France) following the manufacturer’s instructions, and including the optional RNase-free DNase step to avoid contamination with genomic DNA. RNA was extracted from embryogenic tissues from transformed and untransformed lines. For the transformed lines, successive stages of differentiation were studied in the transformed lines (see “Results”). Reverse transcription of mRNA was carried out in a 20 μL final volume from 1 μg total RNA with the SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer’s instructions. PCRs contained 2 μL of cDNA, corresponding to 50 ng of total RNA, in a 50 μL final volume, 1X PCR buffer, 0.2 mM dNTP, 1.5 mM MgCl2, Taq DNA polymerase native and recombinant (Invitrogen®) 0.05 U and 0.2 μM of each primer (AtWUS-1 and AtWUS-2 see above). Embryogenesis tissues were sampled at successive stages of differentiation and fixed in 0.2 M phosphate buffer at pH 7.2, supplemented with 2 % (v/v) paraformaldehyde, 1 % (w/v) caffeine, and 1 % (v/v) glutaraldehyde in a vacuum chamber for 30 min, then overnight at 4 °C. Tissues were dehydrated in ethanol, from 70 to 100 % progressively, then impregnated with ethanol–resin (50/50) for 2 h, and finally with resin 100 % overnight at 4 °C. Samples were embedded in Technovit 7100 resin (Heraeus Kulzer GmbH, Germany). Finally, 4-μm sections were double-stained with periodic acid Schiff (PAS) (Merck) and Naphthol Blue Black (NBB) (Sigma-Aldrich) (Buffard-Morel et al. CITATION), and imaged with a Leica DMRXB microscope. The WUS–GFP signal was characterized by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Confocal LSM710 ZEISS CARL SAS) in whole mounts or fresh hand-cut 1-mm sections. Spectral analysis confirmed that the observed fluorescence corresponded to GFP and not autofluorescence. Vibratome sections of the samples expressing AtWUS-GFP were stained with 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride (DAPI) at 1 g/L in PBS for 15 min, then rinsed and mounted in water. For scanning electronic microscopy, fresh tissues were cooled at −33 °C by a Deben Coolstage and observed with a Hirox SH-1500 benchtop SEM. Auxin (IAA) content was measured in cotton callus. The procedure used homogenized frozen tissue. Samples were weighted and 10 ng of a standard 13C6-IAA (Cambridge Isotope Laboratory Inc.) was initially added as internal tracers for recovery and analytical purposes used to quantify AIA as described previously (Denancé et al. CITATION). Induction of somatic embryogenesis was quantified through a logistic regression with the R software environment for statistical computing and graphics (www.r-project.org/). Comparison of IAA content in calli expressing WUS and in control calli was performed with a non-parametric test (Kruskal and Wallis) using Rcmdr package of R software (http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/Rcmdr/).
