!~ABS~! Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPK) are a major group of calcium-stimulated kinases found in plants and some protists. Many CDPKs are membrane-associated, presumably because of lipid modifications at their amino termini. We investigated the subcellular location and myristoylation of AtCPK5, a member of the Arabidopsis CDPK family. Most AtCPK5 was associated with the plasma membrane as demonstrated by two-phase fractionation of plant microsomes and by in vivo detection of AtCPK5-GFP fusion proteins. AtCPK5 was a substrate for plant N-myristoyltransferase and myristoylation was prevented by converting the glycine at the proposed site of myristate attachment to alanine (G2A). In transgenic plants, a G2A mutation completely abolished AtCPK5 membrane association, indicating that myristoylation was essential for membrane binding. The first sixteen amino acids of AtCPK5 were sufficient to direct plasma membrane localization. In addition, differentially phosphorylated forms of AtCPK5 were detected both in planta and after expression of AtCPK5 in a cell-free plant extract. Our results demonstrate that AtCPK5 is myristoylated at its amino terminus and that myristoylation is required for membrane binding.
!~RES~! Several Arabidopsis CDPKs are known to be membrane bound (Lu and Hrabak CITATION; Dammann et al. CITATION; Choi et al. CITATION; Coca and San Segundo CITATION; Mehlmer et al. CITATION) although AtCPK5 has not been studied previously. To determine whether AtCPK5 was associated with the plasma membrane or with intracellular membranes, aqueous two-phase partitioning was used to fractionate microsomes from wildtype plants. This technique enriches plasma membrane vesicles in the upper phase while other intracellular membranes partition to the lower phase (Larsson et al. CITATION). After phase separation, both phases were analyzed by immunoblotting to detect AtCPK5 protein and protein markers for specific membranes (Fig. CITATION). AtCPK5 was highly enriched in the upper phase, similar to the H+-ATPase plasma membrane marker. As expected, intracellular membrane marker proteins were enriched in the lower phase. These results indicate that AtCPK5 is associated with the plasma membrane but does not exclude the possibility that some AtCPK5 protein may be located in the cytosol.Fig. 1AtCPK5 is localized to the plasma membrane. Membranes from wildtype Arabidopsis plants were fractionated by aqueous two-phase partitioning. Equal proportions of the upper and lower phases were separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred to PVDF membranes, and analyzed sequentially using antibodies specific for AtCPK5 and for membrane marker proteins. U upper phase (enriched for plasma membrane); L lower phase (enriched for intracellular membranes) AtCPK5 is localized to the plasma membrane. Membranes from wildtype Arabidopsis plants were fractionated by aqueous two-phase partitioning. Equal proportions of the upper and lower phases were separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred to PVDF membranes, and analyzed sequentially using antibodies specific for AtCPK5 and for membrane marker proteins. U upper phase (enriched for plasma membrane); L lower phase (enriched for intracellular membranes) To investigate whether the amino terminus of AtCPK5 contains a myristoylation consensus sequence, two myristoylation prediction programs were queried: Myristoylator (http://us.expasy.org/tools/myristoylator/myristoylator-ref.html; Bologna et al. CITATION) and NMT Predictor (http://mendel.imp.ac.at/myriatate/SUPLpredictor.htm; Maurer-Stroh et al. CITATION). Myristoylator predicted myristoylation of AtCPK5 while NMT Predictor did not. To determine whether AtCPK5 could be myristoylated in vitro, we used a cell-free transcription/translation system from wheat germ that is known to contain NMT activity (Ellard-Ivey et al. CITATION; Lu and Hrabak CITATION). Both wildtype AtCPK5 protein and its glycine-2 to alanine (G2A) mutant were tested. Reactions included either [35S]-methionine for detection of total protein synthesis or [3H]-myristic acid for detection of myristoylated proteins. For both DNA templates, the major product of the [35S]-methionine-labeled reaction was a protein doublet near the predicted mass of 62.1 kDa (Fig. CITATIONa). [3H]-myristate was incorporated into a 62 kDa product when the wildtype AtCPK5 protein was expressed but not when template DNA containing the G2A mutation was used (Fig. CITATIONb). The identity of these radiolabeled proteins as AtCPK5 was confirmed by immunoblot analysis with AtCPK5 antibody, which recognizes the unique amino terminus of AtCPK5 (Fig. CITATIONc). The 50 kDa protein recognized by the AtCPK5 antibodies represents non-specific binding to a wheat germ protein since it was present in a control reaction that contained no DNA template (Fig. CITATIONc, lane 1). The smaller, non-myristoylated proteins routinely observed in [35S]methionine-labeled reactions may be alternative translation products from the AtCPK5 constructs or AtCPK5 degradation products (Fig. CITATIONa). These results indicate that the AtCPK5 protein can be myristoylated in vitro and that Gly-2 is essential for myristoylation.Fig. 2AtCPK5 is myristoylated in vitro and a G2A mutation prevents myristoylation. In a wheat germ coupled transcription and translation system, AtCPK5 protein (lane 2) was expressed in the presence of either a [35S]methionine; b [3H]myristic acid; or c no radiolabel, followed by SDS-PAGE and fluorography (a and b) or immunoblotting (c). Parallel experiments were performed on AtCPK5 protein containing a glycine-2 to alanine mutation (lane 3). Negative control reactions (lane 1) contained no plasmid template for gene expression. Arrows indicate AtCPK5 protein AtCPK5 is myristoylated in vitro and a G2A mutation prevents myristoylation. In a wheat germ coupled transcription and translation system, AtCPK5 protein (lane 2) was expressed in the presence of either a [35S]methionine; b [3H]myristic acid; or c no radiolabel, followed by SDS-PAGE and fluorography (a and b) or immunoblotting (c). Parallel experiments were performed on AtCPK5 protein containing a glycine-2 to alanine mutation (lane 3). Negative control reactions (lane 1) contained no plasmid template for gene expression. Arrows indicate AtCPK5 protein We noticed that AtCPK5 was often detected as a doublet of approximately 60 and 62 kDa whether the protein source was Arabidopsis plant extracts (Fig. CITATION) or wheat germ expression extracts (Fig. CITATION). This doublet was observed for both wildtype AtCPK5 and the G2A mutant protein, indicating that the second band is not due to the effects of myristoylation. Phosphorylation can retard the migration of proteins, so we examined whether the 62 kDa species represented a phosphorylated form of AtCPK5. Three different protein samples were tested: (1) the upper phase after aqueous two-phase partitioning of wildtype plant extracts, (2) wheat germ transcription/translation reactions expressing wildtype AtCPK5, or (3) wheat germ transcription/translation reactions expressing the G2A-mutated AtCPK5. Protein samples were treated with alkaline phosphatase in the presence or absence of alkaline phosphatase inhibitor. Alkaline phosphatase treatment resulted in the disappearance of the 62 kDa species (Fig. CITATION) and an increase in abundance of the 60 kDa species. In the presence of both alkaline phosphatase and alkaline phosphatase inhibitor, both the 60 and 62 kDa species were detected. Slight variations in migration are likely due to differences in buffer composition of the samples. These results indicate that phosphorylated AtCPK5 is present in plant extracts, that phosphorylation also occurs during in vitro synthesis of AtCPK5 in a cell-free extract, and that myristoylation and membrane association are not required for phosphorylation of AtCPK5.Fig. 3AtCPK5 is phosphorylated when expressed in planta or in vitro. The upper phase from two-phase partitioning of Arabidopsis membranes (left), cell-free wheat germ extract following in vitro expression of AtCPK5 (center), or cell-free wheat germ extract following expression of the AtCPK5-G2A mutant protein (right) were incubated with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (AP) and alkaline phosphatase inhibitor (API). The reaction products were separated by SDS-PAGE and AtCPK5 was detected by immunoblotting with AtCPK5 antibody AtCPK5 is phosphorylated when expressed in planta or in vitro. The upper phase from two-phase partitioning of Arabidopsis membranes (left), cell-free wheat germ extract following in vitro expression of AtCPK5 (center), or cell-free wheat germ extract following expression of the AtCPK5-G2A mutant protein (right) were incubated with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (AP) and alkaline phosphatase inhibitor (API). The reaction products were separated by SDS-PAGE and AtCPK5 was detected by immunoblotting with AtCPK5 antibody Correct subcellular targeting of acylated proteins from metazoans and yeast often requires only a short region at the amino-terminus of the protein (Di Paolo et al. CITATION; Gillen et al. CITATION; Alsheimer et al. CITATION). Previously, we demonstrated that the amino terminus of a different Arabidopsis CDPK, AtCPK2, was sufficient for its correct targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum (Lu and Hrabak CITATION). To determine whether the amino terminal region of AtCPK5 was sufficient for its membrane targeting, transgenic plants were produced that expressed the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5 fused to the β-glucuronidase reporter protein (AtCPK5-16aa-GUS) under control of the native AtCPK5 promoter. For comparison, plants were transformed with the T-DNA from pBI121 in which the GUS protein is expressed from the 35S promoter. To determine the relative distribution of GUS protein between cytosol and membranes, plant extracts were centrifuged to separate microsomes from soluble proteins as described previously and GUS activity in these two fractions was measured with a sensitive fluorometric assay. As expected, in control plants transformed with T-DNA from pBI121, the majority of the GUS protein was soluble and only a small amount (2–3 %) was membrane associated, probably due to non-specific membrane binding or trapping of the abundant GUS protein in membrane vesicles during preparation of extracts. In AtCPK5-16aa-GUS plant extracts, the majority (78 ± 3 %) of the GUS enzyme activity was in the microsomal fraction, indicating that most of the AtCPK5-GUS fusion protein was membrane associated and that the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5 are sufficient for membrane targeting. To determine whether the CPK5-16aa-GUS fusion protein was targeted to the plasma membrane similar to wildtype AtCPK5 (Fig. CITATION), the microsomal fraction was used for aqueous two-phase partitioning. Both native AtCPK5 protein and the plasma membrane marker were enriched in the upper phase, while the markers for organellar membranes were concentrated in the lower phase (Fig. CITATION), confirming that the cellular membranes partitioned correctly. The location of the hybrid AtCPK5-16aa-GUS fusion protein was determined with a fluorometric assay for GUS activity. The plasma membrane-enriched upper phase contained more GUS activity per milliliter than the lower phase (Fig. CITATION). When expressed as specific activity to correct for the six-fold greater protein content in the lower phase, the difference between the amount of AtCPK5-16aa-GUS fusion protein in the two phases is apparent. These results indicate that the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5 are sufficient to correctly target the soluble GUS protein to the plasma membrane.Fig. 4The first sixteen amino acids of AtCPK5 are sufficient for plasma membrane localization. Microsomal membranes from CPK5-16aa-GUS transgenic plants (expressing GUS protein preceded by the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5) were analyzed by aqueous two-phase partitioning. Equal proportions of the upper and lower phases were separated by SDS-PAGE and assayed by immunoblotting with specific antibodies. Chlorophyll absorbance (ng/ml) was measured spectrophotometrically. The GUS enzyme was assayed fluorometrically and is expressed as activity (μmol/min/ml) and as specific activity (μmol/min/mg protein). U upper phase, L lower phase The first sixteen amino acids of AtCPK5 are sufficient for plasma membrane localization. Microsomal membranes from CPK5-16aa-GUS transgenic plants (expressing GUS protein preceded by the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5) were analyzed by aqueous two-phase partitioning. Equal proportions of the upper and lower phases were separated by SDS-PAGE and assayed by immunoblotting with specific antibodies. Chlorophyll absorbance (ng/ml) was measured spectrophotometrically. The GUS enzyme was assayed fluorometrically and is expressed as activity (μmol/min/ml) and as specific activity (μmol/min/mg protein). U upper phase, L lower phase To address the importance of AtCPK5 myristoylation in membrane binding in plants, we examined the effect of mutation of the myristoylation site on membrane association. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to convert the second codon of pCPK5-16aa-GUS from glycine to alanine (G2A) to create pCPK5-G2A-GUS. Extracts from transgenic plants expressing the CPK5-G2A-GUS fusion protein were separated into soluble and microsomal fractions by ultracentrifugation. GUS enzyme activity was measured in both fractions using the fluorometric assay. The majority (97 %) of the GUS activity was detected in the soluble fraction, compared with 22 % when plants expressed the CPK5-16aa-GUS transgene without the G2A mutation. These results demonstrate that myristoylation is critical for the membrane binding of AtCPK5 in vivo. To confirm the plasma membrane localization of AtCPK5, a construct containing the first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5 fused to green fluorescent protein was used for transient expression in Arabidopsis. pCPK5-16aa-GFP was bombarded into Arabidopsis leaves and expression in epidermal cells was examined by confocal microscopy (Fig. CITATION). The quantitative GUS assay data presented earlier indicated that ~80 % of AtCPK5 was plasma membrane associated and it is evident from a single optical section near the midpoint of the cell that CPK5-16aa-GFP was found at the cell periphery, corresponding to plasma membrane-localized AtCPK5 (Fig. CITATIONd). A maximum intensity projection indicates that fluorescence was also observed in the cytosol and nucleus, likely corresponding to soluble CPK5-16aa-GFP fusion protein (Fig. CITATIONc). Fluorescence in nuclei was observed routinely for all transgenic plants and was not unexpected since the sizes of free GFP (26.8 kDa) and CPK5-16aa-GFP (28.5 kDa) are below the exclusion limit of the nuclear pore complex (Grebenok et al. CITATION). In cells expressing the non-myristoylated CPK5-G2A-GFP fusion protein, fluorescence was localized primarily in the cytosol and nucleus (Fig. CITATIONe, f), in a pattern similar to free GFP (Fig. CITATIONa, b). These data confirm that a substantial proportion of AtCPK5 is localized to the plasma membrane and that the amino-terminal glycine residue is required for membrane binding.Fig. 5Plasma membrane localization of AtCPK5 requires glycine-2. Arabidopsis epidermal cells transiently expressing various GFP constructs were observed by confocal microscopy. a and b GFP control; c and d CPK5-16aa-GFP; e and f CPK5-G2A-GFP. a, c, and e are projections of 10, 30 and 26 optical sections, respectively; b, d, and f are single optical sections Plasma membrane localization of AtCPK5 requires glycine-2. Arabidopsis epidermal cells transiently expressing various GFP constructs were observed by confocal microscopy. a and b GFP control; c and d CPK5-16aa-GFP; e and f CPK5-G2A-GFP. a, c, and e are projections of 10, 30 and 26 optical sections, respectively; b, d, and f are single optical sections
!~MM~! The pCPK5-16aa-GUS construct contained a 1,417 bp genomic DNA fragment followed in-frame by the β-glucuronidase (GUS) coding sequence from the E. coli uidA gene and the nos terminator. The 1,417 bp Arabidopsis genomic DNA fragment (Arabidopsis gene At4g35310) consisted of 50 nucleotides of coding sequence preceded by the 449 bp CPK5 untranslated leader (containing a 224 bp intron) and 918 bp of non-transcribed sequence, presumed to contain the promoter region. The GUS coding sequence and the nos terminator were from pBI101 (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). For plant transformation, this entire region was cloned into pBIN19 (Bevan CITATION) to create pCPK5-16aa-GUS. The first 16 amino acids of AtCPK5 are MGNSCRGSFKDKLDEG. Mutagenesis of the glycine codon (GGC) at position 2 to alanine (GCC) was performed with the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions to create pCPK5-G2A-GUS. The presence of the G2A mutation was confirmed by DNA sequencing. For constructs pCPK5-16aa-GFP and pCPK5-G2A-GFP, the GUS coding sequence in pCPK5-16aa-GUS and pCPK5-G2A-GUS was replaced with the coding sequence for soluble-modified red-shifted green fluorescent protein (smRS-GFP, Davis and Vierstra CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants were transformed by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION) and transgenics were selected on solidified Murashige and Skoog basal medium with Gamborg’s B-5 vitamins (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) and 0.1 % (w/v) sucrose, pH 5.7, containing 50 mg/L kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant plants were confirmed to contain the transgene using a rapid PCR method (Klimyuk et al. CITATION). Seeds from transgenic plants were surface-sterilized and grown in liquid Murashige and Skoog basal medium with Gamborg’s B-5 vitamins and 1 % (w/v) sucrose, pH 5.7, at 21 °C with an 18 h photoperiod. Aeration was maintained on a rotary shaker at 120 rpm. Microsomal membranes were prepared using a modification of a previously described procedure (Schaller and DeWitt CITATION). All homogenization and fractionation steps were conducted on ice or in a cold room with prechilled buffers and equipment. All buffers contained protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Indianapolis, IN, USA). Two-week-old plants were ground in homogenization buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.2, 20 % [v/v] glycerol, 2 mM EDTA; 1 ml/g fresh weight) with a mortar and pestle. The homogenates were cleared by filtration through Miracloth (Calbiochem, La Jolla, CA, USA) followed by centrifugation at 5,000×g for 5 min. Microsomal membranes were isolated by centrifugation of the supernatant for 30 min at 125,000×g. Membrane pellets were resuspended in SPK buffer (0.33 M sucrose, 5 mM KPO4, and 3 mM KCl, pH 7.8) using a ground glass homogenizer. Aqueous two-phase partitioning to enrich for plasma membrane vesicles was conducted essentially as described (Larsson et al. CITATION). Resuspended microsomes were added to a 6.3 % (w/w) DextranT500/PEG3350 phase mixture prepared in SPK buffer and the phases were separated at 1,000×g for 5–10 min. Both upper and lower phases were repartitioned twice with fresh lower or upper phase, respectively. The final upper and lower phases were diluted separately in 10 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.0) containing 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM EGTA. Phase-partitioned membranes were collected by centrifugation at 125,000×g for 30 min and resuspended in equal volumes of SPK buffer. AtCPK5 rabbit polyclonal antiserum was raised against a fusion protein containing the first 50 amino acids of AtCPK5 fused to the carboxyl terminus of glutathione S-transferase. The construct was made in pGEX-KT (Hakes and Dixon CITATION). Recombinant protein expressed in E. coli was purified on a glutathione-agarose matrix (Amersham Bioscience, Piscataway, NJ, USA) and injected into female New Zealand White rabbits. Crude serum was precipitated with 50 % ammonium sulfate and redissolved in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) [137 mM NaCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4.7H2O, 1.5 mM KH2PO4 2.7 mM KCl]. An affinity matrix for purifying AtCPK5 antibodies was prepared by cloning the AtCPK5 cDNA into pRSET-A (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), purifying the expressed proteins on His-Select nickel affinity gel (Sigma), and crosslinking the purified AtCPK5-6His to Affi-Gel 15 (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA). After binding of the partially purified antibody to this matrix, AtCPK5-specific antibodies were eluted with 0.1 M glycine (pH 2.7) and immediately neutralized with 0.1 volume of 1 M Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), followed by dialysis against PBS. Antibody was used at a 1000-fold dilution. For SDS-PAGE, samples were mixed with 3× Blue Loading Buffer (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA) and incubated at 37 °C for 30 min. After electrophoresis at 4 °C, proteins were electroblotted to PVDF membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA) and immunodetection was performed as described previously (Lu and Hrabak CITATION). Antibodies for detection of specific membranes were: anti-H+-ATPase (DeWitt and Sussman CITATION) for plasma membrane (1:10,000), anti-BiP (Hofte et al. CITATION) for endoplasmic reticulum (1:1,000), and anti-β–ATPase D (Luethy et al. CITATION) for mitochondrial membranes (1:100). Membranes were stripped between detections following the manufacturer’s instructions. Thylakoid membranes were identified by spectrophotometric detection of chlorophyll a and b (Lichtenthaler CITATION). AtCPK5 cDNA was inserted into pBluescript II KS (Stratagene) and expressed under control of the vector’s T7 promoter. The transcript produced from this clone contains 38 bp of sequence from the vector and 18 bp of the AtCPK5 leader preceding the AtCPK5 translation initiation codon. There is no alternate start codon in the upstream sequence. Myristoylation assays were performed with the TnT Coupled Transcription/Translation Wheat Germ Extract System (Promega Corp., Madison, WI, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNAs encoding either wildtype or mutant AtCPK5 proteins were in vitro transcribed and translated in the presence of either 10 μCi of L-[35S]-methionine (1,000 Ci/mmol; Amersham) or 50 μCi of [9,10-3H]-myristic acid (54 Ci/mmol; Amersham Bioscience). Before use, the myristic acid was dried under nitrogen and resuspended by vortexing in DEPC-treated water at a concentration of 10 μCi/μl. Control reactions contained no plasmid. After 90 min incubation at 30 °C, reaction products were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by fluorography with Entensify Universal Autoradiography Enhancer (PerkinElmer, Shelton, CT, USA). Products from in vitro myristoylation assays (10 μl) or the upper phase from two phase partitioning (10 μl) were incubated with 5 units of calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase (Roche) for 15 min at 30 °C. Control reactions contained phosphatase inhibitor cocktail II (Sigma). The reactions were subsequently boiled in the presence of 3× Blue Loading Buffer, separated by SDS-PAGE, and AtCPK5 was visualized by immunoblotting. β-Glucuronidase (GUS) activity was determined with a fluorometric assay (Gallagher CITATION). For CPK5-16aa-GUS plants, total membrane-bound GUS activity (measured in nmol min−1 mg−1) ranged from 1.1 × 104 to 1.8 × 104 (n = 7), while GUS activity from CPK5-G2A-GUS plants ranged from 1.0 × 103 to 2.4 × 103 (n = 6). p35SBSYFP (Katiyar-Agarwal et al. CITATION), pCPK5-16aa-GFP, or pCPK5-G2A-GFP were purified using a QIAprep Spin Miniprep Kit (Qiagen Inc., Valencia, CA, USA). Rosette leaves (0.8–1.2 cm in length) were collected from 3- to 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants and bombarded with 0.8 μg plasmid DNA coated on 480 ug of gold particles (1 μm; Sigma) using a PDS-1000/He delivery system (Bio-Rad). The distance between the stop screen and the leaves was ~9 cm and a helium pressure of 650 psi was employed. Bombarded leaves were incubated in water at room temperature for 4–5 h. Images were collected using a SP2 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Inc., Bannockburn, IL, USA), analyzed using MetaMorph 4.5 software (Universal Imaging Corp., Downingtown, PA, USA), and processed with Photoshop (Adobe Systems Inc., San Jose, CA, USA).
