!~ABS~! Plant architecture shows a large degree of developmental plasticity. Some of the key determinants are the timing of the floral transition induced by a systemic flowering signal (florigen) and the branching pattern regulated by key factors such as BRANCHED1 (BRC1). Here, we report that BRC1 interacts with the florigen proteins FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and TWIN SISTER OF FT (TSF) but not with TERMINAL FLOWER1, a floral repressor. FT protein induced in leaves moves into the subtended bud, suggesting that FT protein also plays a role in promotion of the floral transition in the axillary meristem (AM). The brc1-2 mutant shows an earlier floral transition in the axillary shoots compared with the wild type, suggesting that BRC1 plays a role in delaying the floral transition of the AMs. Genetic and gene expression analyses suggest that BRC1 interferes with florigen (FT and TSF) function in the AMs. Consistent with this, BRC1 ectopically expressed in the shoot apical meristem delays the floral transition in the main shoot. These results taken together suggest that BRC1 protein interacts with FT and TSF proteins and modulates florigen activity in the axillary buds to prevent premature floral transition of the AMs.
!~RES~! The fact that FT acts with the bZIP protein FD in a transcriptional complex prompted us to seek other TFs as possible interacting proteins. To identify TFs that can interact with FT, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening using two different TF libraries. Robotized screening of the first library (Steve Kay Lab) revealed 64 candidates when the threshold was set to twofold higher than the average (see Supplemental Table 1 online). By manual screening of a second TF library (CITATION), 10 TFs were found to show reproducible interaction with FT (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Interestingly, five candidates in the first screening and four in the second were TFs belonging to the TCP family. Because some TCP family members were not represented in the two TF libraries, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays with the individual TCP transcriptional factors that have been reported to be involved in various developmental processes. Among them, BRC1 reproducibly interacted with FT in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 1A). We focused on BRC1 as a good candidate to be a link between the floral transition and concomitant architectural remodeling through branch development. [[FIGURE]] We further investigated interaction between BRC1 and two FT homologs, TSF (in the FT clade) and TFL1 (in the TFL1 clade), by yeast two-hybrid assay. TSF also showed interaction with BRC1, while TFL1 did not (Figure 1A). No interactions between the TCP protein BRC2, which is closely related to BRC1 (CITATION), and these PEBP/RKIP proteins were detected in our yeast two-hybrid experiments (Figure 1A). Protein interaction between FT and BRC1 was further confirmed in plant cells by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in Nicotiana benthamiana and in vitro by pull-down assays. A clear BiFC signal was detected in the nucleus, indicating that FT interacts with BRC1 in plant cells and that the FT-BRC1 complex is localized to the nucleus (Figure 1B). BRC1 was able to pull down FT in the in vitro assay, indicating that their interaction is likely direct (Figure 1C). Analysis using a series of deletion constructs showed that the C-terminal region of BRC1 including the conserved R domain is dispensable for interaction with FT (Figure 1D). However, removal of the entire C terminus after the TCP domain disrupted the interaction (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). In addition, a relatively small deletion of the N-terminal 74 amino acid residues abolished the interaction (Figure 1D). These results suggest the N-terminal region of BRC1 is necessary but not sufficient for interaction with FT. In rice, 14-3-3 proteins mediate the interaction between Hd3a (an FT ortholog) and FD1 (CITATION). Since Arabidopsis FT can interact with 14-3-3 proteins, it is likely that they mediate FT–FD interaction in Arabidopsis as well (CITATION). This raises the question whether 14-3-3 proteins also mediate the interaction between BRC1 and FT. To explore whether 14-3-3 proteins mediate the interaction between BRC1 and FT, two sets of yeast two-hybrid assay were performed. First, we examined whether point mutations in FT that abolish interaction with 14-3-3 proteins also affect interaction with BRC1. All three mutant FT proteins tested still showed interaction with BRC1, suggesting that 14-3-3 proteins do not mediate the interaction (Figure 2A). BRC1 has a sequence conforming to a recognition motif of 14-3-3 proteins (R/K-X-X-S-X-P) in the C-terminal region (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 2B). Mutation in this sequence (S390A) did not abolish interaction with FT, further supporting that 14-3-3 proteins are not required for the interaction (Figure 2A). Second, Ala scanning was performed to identify residues in FT required for interaction with BRC1. Among 46 mutant FT proteins tested, seven did not show interaction with BRC1 but could interact with a 14-3-3 protein (GENERAL REGULATORY FACTOR3 [GRF3; 14-3-3 psi]) (Figure 2C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). When these residues were plotted on the FT three-dimensional structure model (CITATION; Protein Data Bank ID 1WKP), the region required for the interaction with BRC1 was distinct from the interaction interface between FT and 14-3-3 proteins (CITATION; Figure 2D). These results, taken together, indicate that the interaction between FT and BRC1 is not mediated by 14-3-3. Thus, BRC1 interacts with FT in a different manner than FD does. [[FIGURE]] Whether candidates from the yeast two-hybrid screen using the second TF library interact with FT through 14-3-3 proteins was also investigated. A bZIP TF, bZIP30, interacted with 14-3-3 proteins and failed to interact with the mutant FT that cannot interact with 14-3-3 proteins. This suggests that 14-3-3 is probably required to mediate the FT-bZIP30 interaction (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Other candidates interacted with at least one of the mutant FT proteins that cannot interact with 14-3-3 proteins, indicating they probably do not require 14-3-3 proteins for interaction with FT (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). BRC1 is expressed in AMs and the brc1 mutant shows defective phenotypes specifically in the axillary buds (CITATION; CITATION). On the other hand, FT is expressed in the leaf vasculature (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and FT protein moves into the SAM to promote floral transition (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The observation that BRC1 and FT protein can interact in plant cells and in vitro strongly suggests that FT also has a role in the axillary buds. To explore the possible expression of FT in the axillary buds, we examined the expression pattern of FT using gFT:GUS (for β-glucuronidase) plants (CITATION). Because of its large molecular mass (88.9 kD), FT-GUS fusion protein is a good indicator of expression pattern. It does not seem to move out of the cells where originally expressed (CITATION) and did not promote flowering when expressed in the leaf (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). As previously reported, GUS staining was observed in vascular bundles toward the periphery of the rosette leaf blade in gFT:GUS plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Figure 3A). As in the rosette leaves, FT expression was detected in the vasculature in the distal part of cauline leaves but not in the axillary bud (Figure 3B). Further observations of sections of axillary buds did not reveal staining in the buds at the cauline or rosette leaf axils (Figures 3C and 3D; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). We next examined whether FT protein expressed in a leaf blade moves into the axillary bud subtended by the leaf using the ProHSP18.2:FT-EGFP-inducible reporter system (CITATION). Induction of FT-EGFP (for enhanced green fluorescent protein) protein in a single leaf blade was confirmed after local transient heat treatment (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). One leaf blade was heated for 2 h to induce FT-EGFP fusion protein, and 24 h after the end of the heat treatment, FT-EGFP fluorescence in the axillary bud subtended by the heat-treated leaf was observed (Figure 3E). When the heat-treated leaf blade was removed by cutting the base of the leaf blade immediately after the heat treatment, fluorescence was not detected in the axillary bud (Figure 3F). These results showed that FT-EGFP fusion protein expressed in the leaf blade can move into the axillary bud. Based on expression in leaves and the ability to move into the axillary bud from the subtending leaf, we concluded that FT protein is likely to be present in axillary buds. [[FIGURE]] In order to gain insight into the physiological role of the interaction between FT and BRC1, we looked for relevant phenotypes in the brc1-2 (tbl1-1) mutant (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As previously reported, more axillary shoots grew out in the brc1-2 mutant than in the wild type (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 4A). We also confirmed that the development of AMs is more advanced in brc1-2 than in the wild type (CITATION; Figure 4B). Further observation indicated that almost all the existing axillary buds proceeded to reproductive phase in brc1-2 mutant shortly after bolting of the main shoot. By contrast, lower axillary buds remained vegetative in the wild type (Figure 4B). Furthermore, the axillary shoots of the uppermost nodes formed no leaves in many brc1-2 plants, whereas two leaves were usually formed in wild-type plants (Figure 4A). Quantification of leaf number showed that brc1-2 has fewer leaves on the axillary shoots at every position compared with the wild type (Figure 4C). A similar phenotype was observed for the lowest cauline and uppermost rosette nodes in a previous report (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because leaf number is generally considered to reflect the timing of the floral transition, we assumed that the reduction of leaf number in brc1-2 indicates earlier floral transition in the AMs. To confirm this possibility in the context of gene expression, we examined AP1 expression in the AMs using a ProAP1:GUS reporter (CITATION). In the SAM, the timing of the onset of AP1 expression did not differ between brc1-2 and wild-type backgrounds, in accordance with the fact that the leaf number of the main shoot did not significantly differ between the two genotypes. By contrast, the floral transition of the AMs proceeded differently between the brc1-2 mutant and wild-type plants. Eighteen days after germination, almost all the brc1-2 plants (92%; 22/24) had at least one AP1-expressing axillary bud, whereas only about a half of the wild-type plants (53%; 16/30) did. The quantification of AP1-expressing buds indicated that the brc1-2 mutant formed more reproductive axillary buds than did the wild type (Figures 4D and 4E). Introduction of a genomic fragment of BRC1 into brc1-2 complemented the leaf number phenotype (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Therefore, we concluded that floral transition of the AM is accelerated in the brc1-2 mutant. The observations that the number of leaves on the axillary shoots differed depending on the node positions in the wild type and that floral transition of AMs in the brc1-2 mutant was accelerated imply that floral transition of AMs is a regulated process (Figure 4). Furthermore, the observation that FT protein could move into the axillary buds suggests that FT could be involved in this regulation. To address this, we examined floral transition of AMs in ft-2 single and brc1-2 ft-2 double mutants. Compared with the wild type, the ft-2 mutant formed more leaves on its axillary shoots (Figure 5A), suggesting that floral transition in AMs was delayed in the ft-2 mutant. The brc1-2 ft-2 double mutant formed almost the same number of leaves as the ft-2 single mutant on axillary shoots of cauline leaves (Figure 5A). Thus, the acceleration of AM floral transition observed in the brc1-2 mutant requires functional FT in cauline axils. In axillary shoots of rosette leaves, the brc1-2 ft-2 mutant formed fewer leaves than the ft-2 mutant (Figure 5A). The elongation of axillary shoots at the rosette axils was also enhanced in brc1-2 ft-2 compared with ft-2 (Figure 5B). [[FIGURE]] In the ft mutant background, TSF promotes the floral transition during prolonged vegetative phase (CITATION; CITATION). Because our yeast two-hybrid assay showed that TSF is also able to interact with BRC1 (Figure 1A), TSF is likely to be responsible for the acceleration of floral transition in the AMs at rosette axils in the brc1-2 ft-2 mutant. To test this hypothesis, the phenotype of the brc1-2 ft-2 tsf-1 triple mutant was examined. As observed in the brc1-2 ft-2 and ft-2 mutants, brc1-2 ft-2 tsf-1 formed almost the same number of leaves as the ft-2 tsf-1 double mutant in axillary shoots of cauline leaves (Figure 5C). The ft-2 tsf-1 double mutant did not form elongated axillary shoots on its rosette axils under our experimental conditions (CITATION; Figure 5D). In the brc1-2 ft-2 tsf-1 triple mutant, rosette leaves did form axillary buds and developed many leaves, but over 100 d after bolting of the main shoot, the buds failed to make flowers and did not elongate (Figure 5D). These results suggest that prompt floral transition and subsequent elongation of the axillary shoots in the brc1-2 mutant require either FT or TSF functions. In contrast with the ft-2 single and ft-2 tsf-1 double mutants, both of which were epistatic to the brc1-2 mutant, the tfl1-17 mutant showed an additive effect on reduction in leaf number of axillary shoots in the double mutant with brc1-2 (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Taking this together with the results of yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 1A), BRC1 and TFL1 are likely to act independently to suppress floral transition in AMs. FT acts together with FD to promote floral transition in the SAM. Because FD is also expressed in the AMs (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 6A), it is likely that FD also has a role in floral transition of the AMs. Similar to the brc1-2 ft-2 mutant, the brc1-2 fd-1 mutant showed substantial suppression of the brc1-2 phenotype in terms of the leaf number of axillary shoots (Figure 6B). This indicates that FD also acts as a promoter of the floral transition in AMs. [[FIGURE]] It was proposed that AP1, FRUITFULL (FUL), and SUPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO1 (SOC1) are downstream genes of the FT-FD floral transition pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To examine the effect of BRC1 on the expression of these genes, wild-type and brc1-2 mutant plants were grown under noninductive SD conditions and then transferred to LD. After bolting of the main shoot, a plant section containing the axils of the rosette leaves was harvested by removing the main shoot, expanded leaves, hypocotyl, and root at three time points (13, 16, and 19 d after the LD shift) and subjected to expression analysis. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that AP1 and FUL were already upregulated 13 d after the LD shift in brc1-2 compared with the wild type (Figure 6C). These two genes were further upregulated in brc1-2 during further growth in LD but remained at a low level in the wild type. Although SOC1 expression was not upregulated in brc1-2 compared with the wild type at 13 d after the LD shift, a gradual increase was observed during the subsequent growth in LD (Figure 6C). The floral meristem identity gene LEAFY (LFY) is expressed in an FT-independent manner. Although LFY expression level was elevated in brc1-2 13 d after the LD shift, unlike AP1 and FUL, subsequent upregulation did not occur at later time points (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). These results indicate that BRC1 represses photoperiod-dependent expression of FT downstream genes in axillary buds. SOC1 functions in floral transition of AMs together with FUL and other SOC1-related MADS box genes (CITATION; CITATION). In accordance with this, the soc1-2 mutant formed many more leaves on axillary shoots compared with the wild type (Figure 6D). Nevertheless, the soc1-2 mutation only partially suppressed the phenotype of the brc1-2 mutant (Figure 6D). These results suggest that, unlike the cases of FT and TSF, the brc1-2 phenotype is not fully dependent on SOC1 function. The observations described so far indicate that BRC1 has a role in preventing AMs from undergoing early floral transition. The abilities of FT to be transported into the axillary buds and to interact with BRC1 suggest that BRC1 is likely to act through inhibition of FT function. This raises the possibility that BRC1 could delay the floral transition of the main shoot when expressed ectopically in the SAM. To test this possibility, the flowering-time phenotype of transgenic plants expressing BRC1 in the SAM under the control of the FD promoter (ProFD:BRC1) was examined. As expected, ProFD:BRC1 plants showed significant delay in floral transition of the SAM under inductive LD (Figure 7; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). Previously, it was shown that overexpression of BRC1 under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter resulted in pleiotropic developmental defects (CITATION). In this study, ProFD:BRC1 plants showed mild retarded growth in early developmental stages but no obvious morphological alterations (Figure 7A). In SD, the effect of ProFD:BRC1 was more subtle (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col) was used as the wild type. The ProAP1:GUS reporter (POP40) was kindly provided by M.F. Yanofsky (University of California at San Diego). The T-DNA insertion mutant brc1-2 (tbl1-1) was obtained from the ABRC and corresponds to the line SALK_091920 previously characterized (CITATION; CITATION). Plant materials below were previously described: gFT:GUS (CITATION), ProFD:GUS (CITATION), ft-2 (CITATION), fd-1 (CITATION), and soc1-2 (CITATION). ProHSP18.2:FT-EGFP was constructed by fusing a promoter fragment (−853 to −1, relative to ATG) of the Arabidopsis HSP18.2 gene (CITATION) with the FT-EGFP open reading frame (ORF). ProFD:BRC1 was constructed based on the previously described ProFD:GUS construct (CITATION) by replacing the GUS ORF with the BRC1 ORF. Seeds were stratified by keeping them at 4°C for 2 to 4 d and then transferred to 22°C LD (16 h light/8 h dark) with white fluorescent light (∼80 μmol m−2 s−1) or SD (8 h light/16 h dark) with white fluorescent light (∼100 μmol m−2 s−1) conditions. For analyses of the axillary shoot phenotypes and FT protein movement, plants were grown on vermiculite. Developmental stages of the axillary buds were determined according to CITATION. Observations were made on the days when the individual plant first showed a visible floral bud (before bolting), reached 1 cm in height (1 cm bolting), and reached 5 cm in height (5 cm bolting). The leaf number of the axillary shoot was counted after internode elongation. Leaves at the base of the axillary shoot without a visible elongated stem were counted as axillary rosette leaves and leaves on the elongated shoots as cauline leaves. For expression analyses, plants were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.5% Suc and 0.8% agar. Plasmid constructs used in this study and primers used for cloning are described in Supplemental Tables 2 and 3 online. For the first yeast two-hybrid screening, a TF library containing 1729 TFs was used (CITATION). The ORF of the full-length FT protein was cloned in pENTR/D-TOPO (Life Technologies) and then transferred to pDEST32 (Life Technologies) using LR recombination reaction. The lacZ activity was measured by β-galactosidase assay. For the second screening and two-hybrid assays, the FT ORF was cloned in pCUY vector (CITATION). A TF library containing 1503 TFs constructed in pDEST_GAD424 was described previously (CITATION). Plasmids isolated from positive colonies were transformed into Escherichia coli (DH5α) for sequencing. The interaction was confirmed after retransformation of yeast. pCUY and pGAD424 (Clontech/TAKARA) were used for construction of the other yeast two-hybrid constructs. The appropriate plasmids were transformed into a yeast strain AH109 (Clontech/Takara) using the lithium acetate method and selected on synthetic dropout medium plates lacking Leu and Trp. After 3 or 4 d of incubation at 30°C, yeast cells were transferred to liquid synthetic dropout medium lacking Leu and Trp and incubated for 24 h. After measuring OD600, 1 mL of each culture was centrifuged and resuspended in TE buffer, pH 7.4, to a final OD600 of 0.33. Five microliters of suspended yeast was spotted on synthetic dropout medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His for the His requirement test (−His). 3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole (0.5 mM) was added to the medium for prevention of nonspecific growth, where specified (−His+3-AT). As positive controls, yeast cells were also spotted on synthetic dropout medium lacking Leu and Trp (+His). These plates were incubated at 30°C and scored for growth of the yeast cells. To visualize the location of the residues important for protein interaction, an FT ribbon model was produced using Pymol (http://www.pymol.org) from the Protein Data Bank file (CITATION; Protein Data Bank ID 1WKP). A split EYFP fragment encoding the N-terminal fragment of EYFP (YN; 1 to 155 amino acids) was cloned into pBI121 vector and then BRC1 ORF was inserted in frame after the YN to make YN-BRC1. Other constructs (FT-YC, YN, and YC in pBI121) were described previously (CITATION). Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown under continuous light conditions at 23°C. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pMP90 containing an appropriate construct was grown at 28°C in L-broth to the stationary phase. Bacterial cells were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2 and 10 μg/mL acetosyringone (Wako) and left for 3 h at room temperature. The bacterial suspensions were infiltrated into the abaxial air spaces of leaves of 2- to 4-week-old plants using 1-mL syringes. Plants were kept for 36 h after the infiltration in continuous light conditions at 23°C. Complemented EYFP fluorescence was excited at 515 nm by an argon laser and detected in a range from 530 to 630 nm with confocal laser scanning microscopy (FV1000; Olympus). The BRC1 full-length ORF was cloned into pET41a (Novagen), and FT full-length ORF was cloned into pET24d (Novagen). The plasmids were transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) to express glutathione S-transferase (GST)-BRC1 and T7-FT, respectively. pET41a empty vector was used to express GST. For GST pull-down assays, GST-BRC1 or GST bacterial lysate was incubated with Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare), then 20 μL of the slurry (50% [w/v]) was mixed with 10 μL of T7-FT bacterial lysate and 220 μL of NETN buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.5% Nonidet P-40) and was gently stirred at 4°C for 2 h. The beads were washed thoroughly with the NETN buffer five times and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analyses. T7-FT protein was detected with anti-T7 antibody (Novagen) and visualized using ECL plus (GE Healthcare) with Image Quant LAS 4000mini (GE Healthcare). Plants were fixed for 15 min in 90% acetone on ice and washed in PBS buffer twice. Fixed samples were incubated at 37°C for ∼16 h with staining solution (0.5 mg/mL X-Gluc, 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, and 0.2% TritonX-100). For resin sectioning, samples were dehydrated through an ethanol series and embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzer) and sectioned at a thickness of 5 μm with a microtome (RM2155; Leica). The ProAP1:GUS plant was observed with microscopy, and the number of stained buds was counted. ProHSP18.2:FT-EGFP plants grown under LD conditions for 22 d were subjected to single-leaf heat treatment essentially as described previously (CITATION). The leaf blade of the sixth leaf was exposed to 37°C for 2 h by placing it in the water-filled space between a heated copper plate and a slide glass to ensure good contact. Twenty-four hours after heat treatment, plants were embedded in 4% agar gel with PBS and sectioned at a thickness of 80 μm with a vibratome (VIB-1500; Intracel). GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm by an argon laser and detected in a range from 500 to 600 nm with confocal laser scanning microscopy (FV1000; Olympus). Plants grown under SD for 24 d were transferred to LD and harvested after 13, 16, and 19 d. Rosette-axil samples were obtained by removing the main shoot, leaves, hypocotyl, and root. Total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Life Technologies) and treated with DNase I Amplification Grade (Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Total RNA (0.5 μg) was reverse transcribed in a 20-μL reaction mixture using Transcriptor (Roche Applied Science). The resultant cDNA solution was diluted with 30 volumes of water, and 3-μL aliquots were analyzed. Quantitative RT-PCR analyses were performed with the CFX96 system (Bio-Rad Laboratories) using SYBR green I. The primers used are described in Supplemental Table 4 online. Quantitative RT-PCR results were normalized to the geometric means of ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE3 (APX3; CITATION), REGULATORY PARTICLE TRIPLE-A 1A (RPT1a; CITATION), and THIOREDOXIN H-TYPE3 (TRX3; CITATION) and shown as the average of nine different reactions (biological × technical triplicate). Internal control genes used in this study were selected from nine genes according to CITATION. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for genes mentioned in this article are as follows: At3g18550 (BRC1), At1g65480 (FT), At1g68800 (BRC2), At4g20370 (TSF), At5g03840 (TFL1), At5g38480 (GRF3), At2g21230 (bZIP30), At4g35900 (FD), At1g69120 (AP1), At5g60910 (FUL), At2g45660 (SOC1), At5g61850 (LFY), At4g35000 (APX3), At1g53750 (RPT1a), At5g42980 (TRX3), At5g59720 (HSP18.2), At1g06850 (bZIP52), At4g18390 (TCP2), At1g53230 (TCP3), At3g15030 (TCP4), At1g58100 (TCP8), At1g69690 (TCP15), At1g72010 (TCP22), and At4g18390 (TCP24). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay between FT and Putative FT-Interacting Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay between FT and BRC1 Fragments. Supplemental Figure 3. Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay between Ala-Scanned Mutant FT Proteins and BRC1 or GRF3. Supplemental Figure 4. Expression Analysis Using FT-GUS Fusion Protein. Supplemental Figure 5. Heat Treatment of Leaf Blades of ProHSP18.2:FT-EGFP Plants. Supplemental Figure 6. Complementation Test of the brc1-2 Mutant Using a Genomic Fragment of BRC1. Supplemental Figure 7. BRC1 and TFL1 Likely Act Independently in the Regulation of Floral Transition of Axillary Shoots. Supplemental Figure 8. Relative Expression of LFY after a Shift from SD to LD. Supplemental Figure 9. Relative Expression of BRC1 in ProFD:BRC1 Plants. Supplemental Figure 10. Flowering-Time Phenotype of ProFD:BRC1 Grown under SD. Supplemental Figure 11. Amino Acid Residues Essential for the Interaction with BRC1 Shown on a Ribbon Model of FT in the Complex with 14-3-3 Protein and FD. Supplemental Table 1. List of Candidate FT-Interacting Proteins Obtained from Yeast Two-Hybrid Screening of the Kay Lab Transcription Factor Library. Supplemental Table 2. Constructs. Supplemental Table 3. Primers Used in Plasmid Construction. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used in qRT-PCR.
