!~ABS~! Translation inhibition is a major but poorly understood mode of action of microRNAs (miRNAs) in plants and animals. In particular, the subcellular location where this process takes place is unknown. Here, we show that the translation inhibition, but not the mRNA cleavage activity, of Arabidopsis miRNAs requires ALTERED MERISTEM PROGRAM1 (AMP1). AMP1 encodes an integral membrane protein associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and ARGONAUTE1, the miRNA effector and a peripheral ER membrane protein. Large differences in polysome association of miRNA target RNAs are found between wild-type and the amp1 mutant for membrane-bound, but not total, polysomes. This, together with AMP1-independent recruitment of miRNA target transcripts to membrane fractions, shows that miRNAs inhibit the translation of target RNAs on the ER. This study demonstrates that translation inhibition is an important activity of plant miRNAs, reveals the subcellular location of this activity, and uncovers a previously unknown function of the ER.
!~RES~! This study began with the isolation of the amp1-30 allele in the gene ALTERED MERISTEM PROGRAM1 (AMP1) (see below) from an ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis screen. The genetic screen was conducted in a line in which a luciferase reporter gene undergoes transcriptional gene silencing through DNA methylation (CITATION) and was designed to identify players in DNA methylation. The line also contained a mutation in RNA DEPENDENT RNA POLYMERASE6 (RDR6) to prevent posttranscriptional transgene silencing (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the isolated mutant was actually a double mutant, which we refer to as rdr6-11 amp1-30 (or rdr6 amp1 for simplicity). rdr6 amp1 did not show altered reporter gene expression, but its morphological phenotypes were reminiscent of those of mutants defective in miRNA biogenesis or activity and prompted us to study this mutant. Though the morphology of rdr6 plants is largely similar to wild-type, pin-shaped cotyledons were present in 28% of rdr6 amp1 plants (CITATIONA and 1B and CITATION). The amp1 single mutant was later recovered and found to also exhibit radialized cotyledons (CITATION). Defects in adaxial-abaxial polarity specification are known to result in radialized lateral organs (CITATION). The type III HD-Zip genes PHABULOSA (PHB), PHAVOLUTA (PHV), and REVOLUTA (REV), which are repressed by miR165/166 in the abaxial domain of organ primordia, specify adaxial identity, and failure to repress the genes leads to adaxialization and radialization of leaves (CITATION; CITATION). We thought that the phenotypes of amp1 could reflect defects in miR165/166-mediated repression of the HD-Zip genes. To test this genetically, we crossed amp1 with phb-1d/+, which harbors a miR165/166-resistant phb allele and displays mild leaf polarity defects (the phenotypes are mild because other HD-Zip genes are repressed by miR165/166) (CITATION) (CITATIONC). The amp1 phb-1d/+ plants had dramatic defects in leaf polarity—nearly all leaves became trumpet shaped (CITATIOND). Therefore, amp1 is partially compromised in leaf polarity specification, and further studies revealed a defect in miR165/166-mediated repression of PHB, PHV, and REV (see below). The amp1 mutant exhibited phenotypic similarities with mutants defective in miRNA biogenesis or function. Null mutants in the miRNA biogenesis gene DICERLIKE1 (DCL1) (CITATION; CITATION) show overproliferation of suspensor cells (CITATION). The rdr6 amp1 mutant also showed such phenotypes (CITATIONE and 1F). Mutants in the P body gene VCS, which is required for miRNA-mediated translation inhibition (CITATION), exhibit pointed cotyledons with incomplete veins and anthocyanin accumulation (CITATION). Both rdr6 amp1 and amp1 had incomplete veins (CITATIONG and 1H) and anthocyanin deposition in cotyledons (CITATIONB), although the phenotype was not fully penetrant (CITATION available online). rdr6 amp1 and amp1 plants were also reduced in fertility (CITATIONI and 1J) and stature (CITATIONK). These phenotypes raised the possibility of amp1 being compromised in miRNA biogenesis or activity. To first evaluate whether AMP1 plays a role in miRNA biogenesis, we performed northern blotting to compare the steady-state levels of nine miRNAs between rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 (CITATION A). No difference in miRNA accumulation was observed, which argued against a role of AMP1 in miRNA biogenesis. Next, we examined the transcript levels of eight genes targeted by five different miRNAs using real-time RT-PCR in rdr6 amp1 and rdr6. Only CUC2 showed an increase in transcript abundance in rdr6 amp1 relative to rdr6 (CITATION A). This argued against a general role of AMP1 in miRNA-guided transcript cleavage. Finally, we determined whether the amp1 mutant was defective in miRNA-mediated target gene repression at the protein level. We first examined whether miR398-mediated repression of CSD2 (CITATION) was compromised in rdr6 amp1. miR398 is strictly induced under Cu2+-limiting conditions and is not detectable under Cu2+-replete conditions (CITATION). We found that CSD2 protein levels were higher in rdr6 amp1 than rdr6 when seedlings were grown in the absence of Cu2+ (CITATIONB, CITATION A, and S2B), but CSD2 mRNA levels were similar in the two genotypes (CITATIONA). In the presence of Cu2+, CSD2 protein levels were similar in the two genotypes (CITATIONB, CITATIONA, and S2B). This, in conjunction with the unaltered levels of miR398 (CITATIONA), suggested that miR398’s activity to repress CSD2 at the protein level was compromised in rdr6 amp1. The amp1 mutation was responsible for this molecular defect, as the defect was rescued by AMP1p::AMP1-HA (CITATIONC and CITATIONA). To conclusively demonstrate that the increase in CSD2 protein levels in rdr6 amp1 under Cu2+-limiting conditions reflected compromised miR398 activity, we generated CSD2p::CSD2-HA and CSD2p::CSD2m-HA transgenic lines in order to compare transgene expression between rdr6 and rdr6 amp1. In these lines, HA-tagged wild-type or miR398-resistant CSD2 was driven by the CSD2 promoter. Because plant transformation results in random transgene integration and transgene expression can be strongly influenced by transgene location, comparison of expression levels of independent transgenes in rdr6 versus rdr6 amp1 would not be meaningful. We obtained isogenic rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 lines in which each transgene was homozygous and inserted into a single genomic locus (see CITATION) to enable the comparison of transgene expression between the two genotypes. We found that, under Cu2+-limiting conditions (i.e., miR398 present), CSD2-HA levels were higher in rdr6 amp1 than rdr6, but CSD2m-HA levels were similar in the two genotypes (CITATIOND and CITATIONC). This demonstrated that miR398-mediated repression of CSD2 at the protein level was compromised by the amp1 mutation. We next determined whether AMP1 also mediates the activities of other miRNAs. We generated isogenic rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 lines containing each of the following transgenes: 35S::PHB-MYC, 35S::CNA- MYC, and 35S::REV- MYC (all targeted by miR165/6 [CITATION; CITATION]), and 35S::CUC1- MYC (targeted by miR164 [CITATION]). Note that the inclusion of the rdr6 mutation in these analyses was necessary to prevent transgene silencing. For each transgene, at least two independent transgenic events were evaluated. In all cases, an increase in transgene protein levels was found in rdr6 amp1 relative to rdr6 (CITATIONE, 2F, CITATIOND, S2E, S2F, and S2G). The miR165/6-resistant 35S::PHBm-MYC transgene was similarly expressed in rdr6 amp1 and rdr6 (CITATIONE and CITATIOND). The transcript levels from each of the transgenes were similar in rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 except for CUC1-MYC (CITATIONG). To rule out an effect of amp1 on miRNA-mediated transcript cleavage, we performed semiquantitative 5′ RACE RT-PCR to detect the 3′ cleavage products from five miRNA target genes in rdr6 and rdr6 amp1. No difference in the abundance of the 3′ cleavage products was detected (CITATIONH). In addition, the cleavage products were cloned and sequenced, which revealed that the precision of miRNA-mediated RNA cleavage was unaffected by the amp1 mutation (CITATIONI). In conclusion, AMP1 is not required for miRNA-mediated cleavage of target mRNAs; instead, it mediates the activities of multiple miRNAs in reducing the protein levels of their target genes. The lack of an effect of the amp1 mutation on protein accumulation from miRNA-resistant transgenes indicates that AMP1 does not affect protein levels in general. Although the disproportionate effects of plant miRNAs on target gene expression at protein versus mRNA levels have been attributed to their translation inhibition activities, plant miRNAs have not been definitively shown to inhibit protein synthesis. We took advantage of the amp1 mutant to determine whether plant miRNAs inhibit protein synthesis from their target mRNAs. To this end, we first determined the half-life of the CSD2-HA protein from a CSD2p::CSD2-HA transgenic line through pulse-chase experiments. We found the half-life to be at least 12 hr under Cu2+-limiting conditions (data not shown). The long half-life allowed us to ascertain protein synthesis rates from the transgene by incubating seedlings in 35S-Methionine media for short time periods (20 min and 40 min) followed by immunoprecipitation of CSD2-HA. The immunoprecipitated and radiolabeled CSD2-HA represented newly synthesized CSD2-HA, whereas western blots on the same samples displayed the steady-state levels of the protein (both labeled and unlabeled). As expected, in both rdr6 and rdr6 amp1, the amount of radiolabeled CSD2-HA increased over time, but the steady-state levels were the same at the two time points (CITATION A, 3B, and CITATIONA). The amount of newly synthesized CSD2-HA was higher at both time points in rdr6 amp1 than rdr6 under Cu2+-limiting conditions (CITATIONA, 3B, and CITATION A). Therefore, AMP1 was required for the inhibition of protein synthesis from CSD2-HA. To determine whether the translation inhibition by AMP1 required miR398, we performed the pulse-labeling experiments in the presence of Cu2+. The amount of newly synthesized CSD2-HA was similar in rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 under Cu2+-replete conditions (CITATIONC, 3D, and CITATIONB). Therefore, miR398 inhibits protein synthesis from the CSD2p::CSD2-HA transgene in an AMP1-dependent manner. Furthermore, the general profiles of labeled proteins were identical in rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 (CITATIONC), indicating that AMP1 does not impact protein synthesis in general. Using a map-based cloning strategy, we identified the molecular lesion of amp1-30 as a G-to-A change in the splice junction at the sixth intron in the AMP1 gene (CITATION A). Two genomic clones, AMP1p::AMP1-GFP and AMP1p::AMP1-HA, both fully rescued the morphological defects (CITATIONL) as well as the molecular defects of rdr6 amp1 (i.e., the increase in CSD2 protein levels; CITATIONC and CITATIONA), demonstrating that AMP1 mediates the activities of miRNAs. Homologs of plant AMP1 are easily recognized in animals (CITATIONA). These included six human genes—four encoding confirmed or putative glutamate carboxypeptidases or N-acetylated α-linked acidic dipeptidases (NAALADase) and two encoding the transferrin receptor. AMP1 and its homologs share a common organization of motifs/domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a protease-associated (PA) domain, a peptidase domain, and a transferrin receptor dimerization domain (CITATIONA). The presence of the peptidase domain in AMP1 raised the possibility that AMP1 acts to degrade proteins from miRNA target genes. Although this scenario would be consistent with AMP1’s role in repressing miRNA target gene expression at the protein level, it is not likely, as we had shown that AMP1 inhibits protein synthesis (i.e., translation) from miRNA target genes (CITATION). Nonetheless, we examined whether AMP1 affects the half-life of miRNA target proteins by performing pulse-chase experiments. As the long half-life of CSD2-HA made it unsuitable for this analysis, we focused on PHB-MYC with a much shorter half-life. The half-lives of PHB-MYC in rdr6 PHB-MYC and rdr6 amp1 PHB-MYC were not significantly different as measured from three independent experiments (CITATIOND and S3E), thus ruling out a role of AMP1 in degrading PHB-MYC. An AMP1 paralog (At5g19740), LAMP1, encoding a protein with 42% amino acid similarity to AMP1 is present in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATIONA). We identified a T-DNA insertion mutant, lamp1-1, and produced the amp1-30 lamp1-1 double mutant (in the wild-type RDR6 background; will be referred to as amp1 lamp1). The double mutant was extremely small (CITATIONK and CITATIONB) and sterile (CITATIONC), suggesting that the two genes have overlapping functions in development. The two genes also have overlapping molecular functions. miR398-mediated repression of CSD2 was more compromised in amp1 lamp1 than in amp1 (CITATIOND and S2H). The amp1 lamp1 double mutant, but not the amp1 single mutant, showed an increase in the protein, but not the transcript, levels from the AGO1 gene, which is targeted by miR168 (CITATION) (CITATIONE, 4F, and CITATIONI). The amp1 lamp1 double mutant had normal levels of various miRNAs (CITATIONB), as well as most miRNA target mRNAs (CITATIONF), suggesting that both genes mediate the translation inhibition activities of miRNAs. Note that a significant increase in CSD2 protein levels was observed in rdr6 amp1 relative to rdr6 (CITATIOND) but not in amp1 relative to WT (CITATIOND). This suggests that the rdr6 mutation somehow enhances amp1’s defects in miRNA-mediated translation repression. We suspect that this reflects an indirect effect of RDR6, which enables the production of endogenous siRNAs (CITATION; CITATION) that may share with miRNAs the translation repression machinery involving AMP1. The absence of endogenous siRNAs in rdr6 may allow miRNAs better access to the machinery to exert a stronger effect in translation repression. Given that both AMP1 and the miRNA effector AGO1 are required for miRNA-mediated translation repression (this study and CITATION), we sought to determine whether the two proteins are associated or colocalize in vivo. Immunoprecipitation (IP) was conducted using anti-GFP antibodies with extracts from rdr6 and AMP1p::AMP1-GFP rdr6 amp1 plants. Western blotting using anti-AGO1 antibodies showed that AGO1 was enriched in the IP (CITATION A). In the reciprocal experiment, in which AGO1 was immunoprecipitated from rdr6 and AMP1p::AMP1-HA rdr6 amp1 plants, AMP1-HA was found enriched in the IP (CITATIONB). This suggested that the two proteins are associated in vivo. A previous study showed that GFP-AMP1 from a 35S::GFP-AMP1 transgenic line localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in Arabidopsis (CITATION), consistent with the presence of a transmembrane domain in AMP1. We sought to confirm the ER localization of AMP1 and determine whether AGO1 is also associated with ER. When transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana, AMP1-GFP and ER-mCherry, an ER marker (CITATION), were found to colocalize in mesh-like patterns typical for the ER (CITATIONC–5E). In leaves coexpressing YFP-AGO1 and ER-mCherry, YFP-AGO1 accumulated in many cytoplasmic granules that colocalized with ER-mCherry (CITATIONF–5H, CITATION A, and S4B). Quantification of YFP-AGO1 signals revealed that most AGO1 granules were along the ER meshwork (CITATIONI). DECAPPING1 (DCP1), a P body marker, was also found in cytoplasmic granules (CITATION) (CITATION), but the DCP1 foci did not colocalize with ER-mCherry (CITATIONI and CITATION). To examine the membrane association of AMP1 and AGO1 in Arabidopsis, we separated extracts from an AMP1p::AMP1-HA rdr6 amp1 line into crude membrane and soluble fractions. AMP1-HA was exclusively in the membrane fraction (CITATIONJ), and AGO1 was enriched in the membrane fraction (CITATION) (CITATIONJ). Under high-salt or high-pH conditions, AGO1 was displaced into the soluble fraction (CITATION) (CITATIONK), whereas AMP1-HA remained in the membrane fraction (CITATIONK). Therefore, AMP1 is an integral membrane protein, whereas AGO1 is a peripheral membrane protein. We further examined whether the membrane association of AGO1 was dependent on AMP1. Similar fractionation studies were conducted with rdr6 and rdr6 amp1. No difference in the distribution of AGO1 between soluble and membrane fractions was found in the two genotypes (CITATIONA), indicating that AMP1 is not required for the membrane association of AGO1. Sucrose-gradient-based membrane fractionation with a 35S::GFP-AMP1 line showed a shift of GFP-AMP1 to lighter fractions upon ribosome dissociation in the absence of Mg2+ (CITATION), suggesting that AMP1 is present on the rough ER. To confirm this finding with an AMP1 transgene driven by its own promoter, we fractionated membranes with the AMP1::AMP1-GFP rdr6 amp1 line and examined the distribution of AMP1-GFP and AGO1 along the sucrose gradient. In the presence of Mg2+, AMP1-GFP was found in dense and medium-dense fractions, and AGO1 was in medium dense fractions (CITATIONB). In the presence of EDTA that chelates Mg2+, AMP1-GFP shifted to medium-dense and light fractions, and AGO1 shifted to light fractions (CITATIONB). The Mg2+-induced shift toward heavier fractions for the two proteins suggests that both are associated with membranes bound by ribosomes or large protein complexes. The distribution of the two proteins in the presence of Mg2+ partially overlapped, consistent with the two proteins acting together. To confirm the rough ER localization of AMP1, we performed immunogold labeling for AMP1-HA in an AMP1p::AMP1-HA rdr6 amp1 line and wild-type (a negative control). AMP1-HA signals in AMP1p::AMP1-HA rdr6 amp1 were associated with tubular structures characteristic of ER (CITATIONL). Quantification of AMP1-HA signals in AMP1p::AMP1-HA rdr6 amp1 and wild-type revealed that the labeling was specific (CITATION). Colocalization with the ER marker Calnexin confirmed the ER localization of AMP1-HA (CITATIONM). The ER with AMP1-HA signals was also associated with ribosomes (CITATIONL), suggesting that AMP1 localizes to the rough ER. However, as rough ER was the main form of ER in the root tip cells examined, we could not exclude an association of AMP1 with smooth ER. In conclusion, AMP1 is an integral membrane protein localized on the rough ER. AGO1 is a peripheral ER membrane protein that is also possibly associated with the rough ER. The rough ER association of AGO1 is supported by the observed Mg2+-induced shift in sucrose gradients (CITATIONB) and the presence of AGO1 on polysomes (CITATION). Given the ER association of both proteins, the observed co-IP between AMP1 and AGO1 (CITATIONA and 5B) could be attributable to the two proteins being in close proximity on the same membrane rather than being in the same protein complex. To begin to determine how AMP1 mediates the translation inhibition activity of miRNAs, we examined the distribution of miRNA target transcripts along polysomes in wild-type and the amp1 lamp1 double mutant. We first extracted total polysomes (TPs), which are composed of soluble as well as membrane- and cytoskeleton-associated polysomes, and resolved them on sucrose density gradients. The A254 absorption profiles of TPs from WT and amp1 lamp1 were largely similar (CITATION A), suggesting that AMP1 does not affect translation in general. The TP gradient was collected into 17 fractions, and the amount of mRNAs in each fraction was determined by real-time RT-PCR. Five miRNA target transcripts—PHB, CSD2, CUC2, SCL6, and TCP4 (all targeted by different miRNAs) —as well as the nontarget UBQ5 RNA were similarly distributed along the TP profiles in wild-type and amp1 lamp1 (CITATIONB). The requirement for ER-localized AMP1 for the translation inhibition activity of miRNAs suggests that miRNAs inhibit the translation of their target mRNAs on the ER. To test this hypothesis, we examined the distribution of miRNA target transcripts along membrane-bound polysomes (MBPs). We isolated microsomes through sucrose-step gradient centrifugation (CITATION A) using optimized conditions that allowed for the preservation of AMP1, AGO1, and intact ribosomal RNAs in the microsomes (CITATIONC and S5D). The quality of the microsome fraction was shown by the presence of the ER membrane protein SEC12, the absence of the soluble protein PEPC, and the type and quality of the rRNA species (CITATIONC and S5D). We first quantified the levels of various transcripts, including those targeted by miRNAs, in the microsome fraction. The proportion of microsome-associated RNA in total RNA for most tested genes—both miRNA targets as well as nontargets such as UBQ5, eIF4A, and ACTIN8—was similar in wild-type and amp1 lamp1 (CITATIONB), suggesting that AMP1 is not required for the membrane association of these transcripts. AMP1 is also dispensable for the membrane association of the AGO1 protein. AGO1 was present in the microsome fraction in both wild-type and amp1 lamp1 and was at a higher level in the latter (CITATIONC), consistent with its increased abundance in the double mutant (CITATIONE and CITATIONI). We next extracted membrane-bound polysomes (MBPs) from the microsome fraction and subjected the MBPs to sucrose density gradient fractionation (CITATIONA). The A254 absorption profiles of MBPs (from either wild-type or amp1 lamp1) differed from those of TPs in that the 80S peak was smaller (compare CITATIOND and CITATIONA). Similar observations were made for MBPs from other organisms (CITATION; CITATION). The MBP gradients were collected into 17 fractions, and the amount of mRNAs in each fraction was quantified by real-time RT-PCR. miRNA target transcripts, such as AGO1, PHB, CSD2, SPL3, SCL6, and TCP4, showed a significant increase in MBP association in the double mutant, whereas nontarget transcripts such as UBQ5, eIF4A, ACTIN8, At2g01570, At5g28770, and At5g66770 were similarly distributed along MBP fractions in wild-type and amp1 lamp1 (CITATIONE). Note that At2g01570, At5g28770, and At5g66770, which encode transcription factors, were included in the analysis because their transcript levels were more similar to those of the miRNA target transcripts than the abundant UBQ5, eIF4A, and ACTIN8 transcripts. The similar degree of microsome association of miRNA target transcripts in wild-type and amp1 lamp1 (CITATIONB) contrasts with their preferential loading onto MBPs in amp1 lamp1 (CITATIONE) and indicates that miRNAs inhibit the translation of their target transcripts on membranes. The requirement for the ER protein AMP1 for this activity suggests that ER is the site of miRNA-mediated translation inhibition.
!~MM~! For pulse-labeling-based measurement of protein synthesis, rdr6 CSD2-HA and rdr6 amp1 CSD2-HA seedlings were incubated in ATS liquid medium containing 800 μCi TRAN 35S-LABEL (MP Biochemicals) for 20 and 40 min. IP was then performed with anti-HA affinity matrix (Roche) to precipitate both labeled (newly synthesized) and nonlabeled (steady-state) CSD2-HA, which were subsequently detected by autoradiography and western blotting, respectively. Pulse-chase experiments were performed to measure the half-life of PHB-MYC. rdr6 PHB-MYC and rdr6 amp1 PHB-MYC seedlings were incubated in ATS liquid medium containing 1 mCi TRAN 35S-LABEL for 5 hr. After labeling, plants were washed with ATS liquid medium and incubated in ATS liquid medium containing 1 mM methionine/cysteine and 100 μg/ml cycloheximide for 0–3 hr. IP was performed with anti-c-myc affinity gel (Sigma). To isolate membrane-bound polysomes (MBPs), 2g seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was suspended in 7 ml microsome extraction buffer (MEB) (see CITATION). The slurry was filtered with two layers of miracloth and centrifuged at 10,000 × g for 15 min at 4°C to remove debris. 100 μl of the supernatant was saved as the total RNA input, and the rest was loaded onto the top of a 2.5 ml 0.6 M/2.5 ml 1.7 M sucrose-step gradient and centrifuged at 140,000 × g in a Beckman SW41 rotor for 1 hr at 4°C. The microsome fraction, which sediments to the 0.6 M/1.7 M layer interface, was carefully transferred into a new tube. The microsome fraction was diluted 10 times by MEB and centrifuged at 140,000 × g for 0.5 hr to pellet the microsomes. The microsomes were dissolved in 8 ml polysome extraction buffer (PEB) (see CITATION). Next, sucrose density gradient fractionation was conducted on the microsomes following the same procedure as for total polysomes (CITATION). See CITATION for details on the above-described methods, as well as additional methods and procedures. Extended Experimental Procedures Plant Material and Growth Conditions amp1-30 was isolated in an ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis screen conducted with rdr6-11 plants harboring a luciferase transgene (CITATION; CITATION). lamp1-1 is a T-DNA insertion allele (cs809737) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center. phb-1d was provided by Dr. Kathryn Barton (CITATION). For experiments conducted with 7-10 day-old seedlings, seeds were sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog medium, kept at 4°C for 3 days before being moved to the growth chamber. For CSD2 western blots and 35S-Methionine pulse labeling experiments, ATS medium (CITATION) was used to allow the addition or omission of 10μM CuSO4. Plants were grown in a plant growth chamber at 23°C under 16h light/8h dark cycles. In order to obtain isogenic rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 lines for various transgenes (CSD2p::CSD2-HA, CSD2p::CSD2m-HA, 35S::PHB-MYC, 35S::CNA-MYC, 35S::REV- MYC, 35S::CUC1- MYC, and 35S::PHBm-MYC), we transformed rdr6 amp1/+ plants with each construct, genotyped T1 transformants for ones that were amp1/+, and then screened the T2 seeds to identify the lines in which the transgene was inserted into one locus based on the 3:1 segregation of the selection marker and genotyped the lines to identify amp1/+ plants. In the T3 generation, we screened the seeds to identify the ones in which the transgene was homozygous (based on the segregation of the selection marker), and genotyped the plants to identify rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 plants, which were isogenic for the transgene (single locus insertion, homozygous). Observation of Embryos and Cotyledon Vasculature Developing seeds were dissected from siliques and cleared by Herr’s solution containing lactic acid:chloral hydrate:phenol:clove oil:xylene (2:2:2:2:1, w/w). Embryos were observed with a Nikon Eclipse TE300 microscope. Cotyledons were kept in 70% ethanol for 1 hr to remove most of the chlorophyll, fixed in ethanol/acetic acid (3:1, v/v) for 3 hr, rehydrated with an ethanol series (70%, 50%, 30%, and 10% ethanol followed by water) with a 30 min treatment at each step, and then incubated in a clearing solution (chlorate hydrate/acetic acid/water = 50:10:5, w/v/v) for 2 hr. Images were taken with a Nikon Eclipse TE300 microscope. Plasmid Construction An AMP1 genomic region from 1,443 bp upstream of the ATG to the end of the ORF (without the stop codon) was amplified from Columbia genomic DNA with Phusion DNA polymerase (NEB), and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). LR reactions were performed with the destination vectors pEARLEYGATE301 (CITATION) and pMDC107 (CITATION), respectively, to obtain the AMP1p::AMP1-HA and AMP1p::AMP1-GFP plasmids. Similarly, the CSD2 genomic region containing the entire coding region (without the stop codon) and 1324 bp upstream was amplified and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO and then introduced into pEARLEYGATE301 to generate CSD2p:CSD2-HA. For 35S::AMP1-GFP, 35S::YFP-AGO1, 35S::PHB-MYC, 35S::REV-MYC, 35S::CNA-MYC, and 35S::CUC1-MYC, the coding regions from the genes (without the stop codon except for AGO1) were amplified and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO followed by LR reactions with the destination vectors pEARLEYGATE103 and 104 (for 35S::AMP1-GFP and 35S::YFP-AGO1, respectively; (CITATION)) and pCAMBIA-1390 (for the rest; a gift from Dr. Zhiyong Wang, Plant Biology Department, Carnegie Institute). Site-directed mutagenesis was performed to obtain CSD2p::CSD2m-HA and 35S::PHBm-MYC. Primers used in the PCR reactions and for the site-directed mutagenesis are listed in CITATION. RNA Analysis Total RNA was isolated with TRI REAGENT (MRC), treated with DNase I (Roche), and converted to cDNA with AMV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) as described (CITATION). Quantitative PCR was performed with the IQ SYBRGreen Supermix (BioRad) on the BioRad CFX96 system. Primers for reverse transcription and PCR are listed in CITATION. miRNA Northern blotting was performed as described (CITATION) with 5 μg total RNA and oligonucleotide probes listed in CITATION. Quantification was performed with ImageQuant TL7.0 (GE Healthcare). For the detection of 3′ cleavage products from miRNA-targeted mRNAs, 5′ RACE was performed using the GeneRacer kit (Invitrogen). Total RNAs were directly ligated with the GeneRacer RNA oligonucleotide and reverse transcription reactions were carried out with gene-specific primers listed in CITATION. Semiquantitative PCR reactions were performed to quantify 3′ cleavage products. The same amount of RNAs was reverse transcribed with oligodT to amplify UBQ5 as an internal loading control. For cleavage site mapping, nested PCR products were cloned into pCR4-TOPO with a TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen), and at least 11 clones from each ligation were sequenced. Western Blots and Co-IP Antibodies used in western blots are the following: polyclonal anti-HA and anti-MYC (Santa Cruz Biotechnology); polyclonal anti-GFP (Clontech); polyclonal anti-CSD2 (Agrisera, as well as a gift from Dr. Daniel Kleibenstein, UC Davis); polyclonal anti-HSC70 (Stressgene); polyclonal anti-PEPC (Agrisera); polyclonal anti-SEC12 (provided by Dr. Natasha Raikhel, UC Riverside); polyclonal anti-AGO1 (CITATION). For co-IP, 1.5g of AMP1p::AMP1-GFP amp1 or AMP1p::AMP1-HA amp1 10-day-old seedlings was ground in liquid nitrogen followed by IP with agarose-conjugated anti-GFP (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or anti-AGO1 antibodies. IP was performed as described in the section “Measurement of protein synthesis and protein half-life by metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation (IP)” below. After washes with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were analyzed by western blotting with anti-AGO1, anti-GFP, or anti-HA antibodies. Signal intensities were quantified with ImageJ (National Institutes of Health, http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Immunolabeling and Transmission Electron Microscopy of Resin-Embedded Cells 4-day-old root tips from an AMP1::AMP1-HA amp1 transgenic line were high-pressure frozen as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Frozen samples were collected and freeze-substituted in a Leica EM AFS2 freeze substitution unit (EM Part2, Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com). For immunolabeling of AMP1-HA, standard procedures were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION), with polyclonal anti-HA (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) as primary antibodies and gold-coupled secondary antibodies at a dilution of 1:50 in PBS supplemented with 1% (w/v) BSA. For double immunolabeling, monoclonal anti-HA (Abcam) and rabbit anti-Calnexin (CITATION) antibodies were used at a dilution of 1:10 and 1:50 respectively. Sections were poststained with aqueous uranyl acetate/lead citrate and examined using a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope with a CCD camera operating at 80 kV (Hitachi High- Technologies Corporation, http://www.hitachi-hitec.com/). Transient Expression in Nicotiana benthamiana and Confocal Microscopy Transient expression of AMP1-GFP, YFP-AGO1, DCP1-CFP (CITATION) and ER-mCherry (CITATION) in N. benthamiana was carried out as described (CITATION). The subcellular localization of AMP1-GFP, YFP-AGO1, DCP1-CFP and ER-mCherry was observed with a Leica SP5 confocal microscope. The excitation/emission wavelengths were 488nm/500-550nm for GFP, 488nm/510-530nm for YFP, 405nm/470-530nm for CFP, and 543nm/620-630nm for mCherry. Negative control samples expressing YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP alone and ER-mCherry alone were used to ensure the absence of signal leakage. For the colocalization of YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP with ER-mCherry, imaging was performed under the sequential scanning mode. To calculate co-localization efficiency, z stack confocal images were taken for each sample (at a 0.6μm slice increment), and three-dimensional images were constructed with the software IMARIS7.2 (Bitplane AG). Colocalization efficiencies were quantified with IMARIS7.2 and expressed as the percentage of fluorescence intensity of YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP colocalized with ER-mCherry to that of total YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP fluorescence. Parameters used in the quantification included “single time point” for histogram mode and “auto threshold” for fluorescence intensity. Measurement of Protein Synthesis and Protein Half-Life by Metabolic Labeling and Immunoprecipitation To measure the synthesis rate of the CSD2-HA protein, 0.8g of 7-day-old CSD2p::CSD2-HA seedlings grown on ATS solid medium with or without 10 μM CuSO4 were transferred to 6ml fresh ATS liquid culture (with or without 10 μM CuSO4). 800 μCi TRAN 35S-LABEL (MP Biochemicals) was added to the liquid culture in a fume hood, and the culture was transferred to a horizontal shaker in a growth room (23°C). After 20 and 40 min of incubation, the seedlings were washed with cold water and frozen in liquid nitrogen. For the IP, the seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and the powder was incubated with 2 volumes of IP buffer (50mM Tris-Cl, pH7.6, 150mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, and complete proteinase inhibitor (Roche)) for 50 min with gentle shaking at 4°C. The slurry was centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4°C three times to remove debris, and the extract was precleared with rabbit IgG-agarose beads (Sigma) for 20 min. The precleared sample was incubated with an anti-HA affinity matrix (Roche) at 4°C for 2 hr. After washing with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and the proteins were resolved in a 12% denaturing polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, the proteins were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane, which was first subjected to western blotting with anti-HA antibodies to detect all CSD2-HA (labeled and nonlabeled), and then exposed to a phosphorimager screen. 35S-labeled CSD2-HA signals were scanned with a Typhoon 9410 scanner (Amersham Biosciences) and quantified with ImageQuant TL7.0 software (GE Healthcare). For measurement of PHB-MYC half-life, 2g 7-day-old 35S::PHB-MYC rdr6 and 35S::PHB-MYC rdr6 amp1 seedlings grown on ATS solid medium were transferred to 12ml fresh ATS liquid culture, 1mCi TRAN 35S-LABEL was added to the culture and the plants were labeled for 5h with shaking in a growth room (23°C). After labeling, plants were washed with ATS liquid medium and incubated in ATS liquid medium containing 1mM Methionine/Cysteine and 100 μg/ml cycloheximide for different durations as indicated in Figure S3E before being frozen in liquid nitrogen. IP was performed as described above except that anti-c-myc affinity gel (Sigma) was used. After washing with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and the proteins were resolved on a 10% denaturing polyacrylamide gel. Gels were dried and exposed to phosphorimager screens for 24 hr. PHB-MYC amounts at different time points were quantified with ImageQuant TL7.0 (GE Healthcare). The PHB-MYC half-life was calculated using the formula t1/2 = (0.693 × time in minutes)/ln(N0/Nx), in which N0 and Nx represent the protein amounts of PHB-MYC at the time point zero and a certain time of chase, respectively. Note that we used the 1h time point for the calculation because of weak signals after 2h of chase. Polysome Isolation and Fractionation Total polysome preparation and fractionation were performed as previously described (CITATION). To isolate membrane-bound polysomes (MBPs), 2g seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was suspended in 7ml microsome extraction buffer (MEB) consisting of 100mM Tris-Cl, pH7.5, 5mM EGTA, 15mM MgCl2, 5mM DTT, 0.3M sucrose, 50U/ml superase·IN (Invitrogen), 50μg/ml cycloheximide, 50μg/ml chloramphenicol, and a complete proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The slurry was filtered with 2 layers of miracloth and centrifuged at 10,000 g for 15 min at 4°C to remove debris. 100μl of the supernatant was saved as the total RNA input, and the rest was loaded onto the top of a 2.5ml 0.6M/2.5ml 1.7M sucrose step gradient and centrifuged at 140,000 g in a Beckman SW41 rotor for 1 hr at 4°C. The microsome fraction, which sediments to the 0.6M/1.7M layer interface, was carefully transferred into a new tube. The microsome fraction was diluted 10 times by MEB and centrifuged at 140,000 g for 0.5 hr to pellet the microsomes. The microsomes were dissolved in 8ml polysome extraction buffer (PEB) consisting of 0.2M Tris-Cl, pH9.0, 0.2M KCl, 0.025M EGTA, 0.035M MgCl2, 0.2% Brij-35, 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.2% Igepal CA630, 0.2% Tween 20, 0.2% polyoxyethylene 10 tridecyl ether, 5mM DTT, 1mM PMSF, 50μg/ml cycloheximide, 50μg/ml chloramphenicol, 1% sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5mg/ml heparin. Next, sucrose density gradient fractionation was conducted on the microsomes following the same procedure as for total polysomes. Briefly, the microsome extracts were loaded onto the top of an 8ml 1.75M sucrose cushion and centrifuged at 170,000 g in a Beckman rotor Type70 Ti for 3h at 4°C to obtain the MBP pellet. The pellet was resuspended in resuspension buffer (0.2M Tris-Cl, pH9.0, 0.2M KCl, 0.025M EGTA, 0.035M MgCl2, 5mM DTT, 50μg/ml cycloheximide, and 50μg/ml chloramphenicol), and polysomes were separated by 15%–60% sucrose density gradient centrifugation. 17 fractions were collected for each sample with continuous monitoring at 254 nm using an ISCO UA-5 UV detector (ISCO, Inc). amp1-30 was isolated in an ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis screen conducted with rdr6-11 plants harboring a luciferase transgene (CITATION; CITATION). lamp1-1 is a T-DNA insertion allele (cs809737) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center. phb-1d was provided by Dr. Kathryn Barton (CITATION). For experiments conducted with 7-10 day-old seedlings, seeds were sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog medium, kept at 4°C for 3 days before being moved to the growth chamber. For CSD2 western blots and 35S-Methionine pulse labeling experiments, ATS medium (CITATION) was used to allow the addition or omission of 10μM CuSO4. Plants were grown in a plant growth chamber at 23°C under 16h light/8h dark cycles. In order to obtain isogenic rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 lines for various transgenes (CSD2p::CSD2-HA, CSD2p::CSD2m-HA, 35S::PHB-MYC, 35S::CNA-MYC, 35S::REV- MYC, 35S::CUC1- MYC, and 35S::PHBm-MYC), we transformed rdr6 amp1/+ plants with each construct, genotyped T1 transformants for ones that were amp1/+, and then screened the T2 seeds to identify the lines in which the transgene was inserted into one locus based on the 3:1 segregation of the selection marker and genotyped the lines to identify amp1/+ plants. In the T3 generation, we screened the seeds to identify the ones in which the transgene was homozygous (based on the segregation of the selection marker), and genotyped the plants to identify rdr6 and rdr6 amp1 plants, which were isogenic for the transgene (single locus insertion, homozygous). Developing seeds were dissected from siliques and cleared by Herr’s solution containing lactic acid:chloral hydrate:phenol:clove oil:xylene (2:2:2:2:1, w/w). Embryos were observed with a Nikon Eclipse TE300 microscope. Cotyledons were kept in 70% ethanol for 1 hr to remove most of the chlorophyll, fixed in ethanol/acetic acid (3:1, v/v) for 3 hr, rehydrated with an ethanol series (70%, 50%, 30%, and 10% ethanol followed by water) with a 30 min treatment at each step, and then incubated in a clearing solution (chlorate hydrate/acetic acid/water = 50:10:5, w/v/v) for 2 hr. Images were taken with a Nikon Eclipse TE300 microscope. An AMP1 genomic region from 1,443 bp upstream of the ATG to the end of the ORF (without the stop codon) was amplified from Columbia genomic DNA with Phusion DNA polymerase (NEB), and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). LR reactions were performed with the destination vectors pEARLEYGATE301 (CITATION) and pMDC107 (CITATION), respectively, to obtain the AMP1p::AMP1-HA and AMP1p::AMP1-GFP plasmids. Similarly, the CSD2 genomic region containing the entire coding region (without the stop codon) and 1324 bp upstream was amplified and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO and then introduced into pEARLEYGATE301 to generate CSD2p:CSD2-HA. For 35S::AMP1-GFP, 35S::YFP-AGO1, 35S::PHB-MYC, 35S::REV-MYC, 35S::CNA-MYC, and 35S::CUC1-MYC, the coding regions from the genes (without the stop codon except for AGO1) were amplified and cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO followed by LR reactions with the destination vectors pEARLEYGATE103 and 104 (for 35S::AMP1-GFP and 35S::YFP-AGO1, respectively; (CITATION)) and pCAMBIA-1390 (for the rest; a gift from Dr. Zhiyong Wang, Plant Biology Department, Carnegie Institute). Site-directed mutagenesis was performed to obtain CSD2p::CSD2m-HA and 35S::PHBm-MYC. Primers used in the PCR reactions and for the site-directed mutagenesis are listed in CITATION. Total RNA was isolated with TRI REAGENT (MRC), treated with DNase I (Roche), and converted to cDNA with AMV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) as described (CITATION). Quantitative PCR was performed with the IQ SYBRGreen Supermix (BioRad) on the BioRad CFX96 system. Primers for reverse transcription and PCR are listed in CITATION. miRNA Northern blotting was performed as described (CITATION) with 5 μg total RNA and oligonucleotide probes listed in CITATION. Quantification was performed with ImageQuant TL7.0 (GE Healthcare). For the detection of 3′ cleavage products from miRNA-targeted mRNAs, 5′ RACE was performed using the GeneRacer kit (Invitrogen). Total RNAs were directly ligated with the GeneRacer RNA oligonucleotide and reverse transcription reactions were carried out with gene-specific primers listed in CITATION. Semiquantitative PCR reactions were performed to quantify 3′ cleavage products. The same amount of RNAs was reverse transcribed with oligodT to amplify UBQ5 as an internal loading control. For cleavage site mapping, nested PCR products were cloned into pCR4-TOPO with a TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen), and at least 11 clones from each ligation were sequenced. Antibodies used in western blots are the following: polyclonal anti-HA and anti-MYC (Santa Cruz Biotechnology); polyclonal anti-GFP (Clontech); polyclonal anti-CSD2 (Agrisera, as well as a gift from Dr. Daniel Kleibenstein, UC Davis); polyclonal anti-HSC70 (Stressgene); polyclonal anti-PEPC (Agrisera); polyclonal anti-SEC12 (provided by Dr. Natasha Raikhel, UC Riverside); polyclonal anti-AGO1 (CITATION). For co-IP, 1.5g of AMP1p::AMP1-GFP amp1 or AMP1p::AMP1-HA amp1 10-day-old seedlings was ground in liquid nitrogen followed by IP with agarose-conjugated anti-GFP (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or anti-AGO1 antibodies. IP was performed as described in the section “Measurement of protein synthesis and protein half-life by metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation (IP)” below. After washes with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were analyzed by western blotting with anti-AGO1, anti-GFP, or anti-HA antibodies. Signal intensities were quantified with ImageJ (National Institutes of Health, http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). 4-day-old root tips from an AMP1::AMP1-HA amp1 transgenic line were high-pressure frozen as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Frozen samples were collected and freeze-substituted in a Leica EM AFS2 freeze substitution unit (EM Part2, Leica, http://www.leica-microsystems.com). For immunolabeling of AMP1-HA, standard procedures were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION), with polyclonal anti-HA (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) as primary antibodies and gold-coupled secondary antibodies at a dilution of 1:50 in PBS supplemented with 1% (w/v) BSA. For double immunolabeling, monoclonal anti-HA (Abcam) and rabbit anti-Calnexin (CITATION) antibodies were used at a dilution of 1:10 and 1:50 respectively. Sections were poststained with aqueous uranyl acetate/lead citrate and examined using a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope with a CCD camera operating at 80 kV (Hitachi High- Technologies Corporation, http://www.hitachi-hitec.com/). Transient expression of AMP1-GFP, YFP-AGO1, DCP1-CFP (CITATION) and ER-mCherry (CITATION) in N. benthamiana was carried out as described (CITATION). The subcellular localization of AMP1-GFP, YFP-AGO1, DCP1-CFP and ER-mCherry was observed with a Leica SP5 confocal microscope. The excitation/emission wavelengths were 488nm/500-550nm for GFP, 488nm/510-530nm for YFP, 405nm/470-530nm for CFP, and 543nm/620-630nm for mCherry. Negative control samples expressing YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP alone and ER-mCherry alone were used to ensure the absence of signal leakage. For the colocalization of YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP with ER-mCherry, imaging was performed under the sequential scanning mode. To calculate co-localization efficiency, z stack confocal images were taken for each sample (at a 0.6μm slice increment), and three-dimensional images were constructed with the software IMARIS7.2 (Bitplane AG). Colocalization efficiencies were quantified with IMARIS7.2 and expressed as the percentage of fluorescence intensity of YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP colocalized with ER-mCherry to that of total YFP-AGO1 or DCP1-CFP fluorescence. Parameters used in the quantification included “single time point” for histogram mode and “auto threshold” for fluorescence intensity. To measure the synthesis rate of the CSD2-HA protein, 0.8g of 7-day-old CSD2p::CSD2-HA seedlings grown on ATS solid medium with or without 10 μM CuSO4 were transferred to 6ml fresh ATS liquid culture (with or without 10 μM CuSO4). 800 μCi TRAN 35S-LABEL (MP Biochemicals) was added to the liquid culture in a fume hood, and the culture was transferred to a horizontal shaker in a growth room (23°C). After 20 and 40 min of incubation, the seedlings were washed with cold water and frozen in liquid nitrogen. For the IP, the seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and the powder was incubated with 2 volumes of IP buffer (50mM Tris-Cl, pH7.6, 150mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, and complete proteinase inhibitor (Roche)) for 50 min with gentle shaking at 4°C. The slurry was centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4°C three times to remove debris, and the extract was precleared with rabbit IgG-agarose beads (Sigma) for 20 min. The precleared sample was incubated with an anti-HA affinity matrix (Roche) at 4°C for 2 hr. After washing with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and the proteins were resolved in a 12% denaturing polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, the proteins were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane, which was first subjected to western blotting with anti-HA antibodies to detect all CSD2-HA (labeled and nonlabeled), and then exposed to a phosphorimager screen. 35S-labeled CSD2-HA signals were scanned with a Typhoon 9410 scanner (Amersham Biosciences) and quantified with ImageQuant TL7.0 software (GE Healthcare). For measurement of PHB-MYC half-life, 2g 7-day-old 35S::PHB-MYC rdr6 and 35S::PHB-MYC rdr6 amp1 seedlings grown on ATS solid medium were transferred to 12ml fresh ATS liquid culture, 1mCi TRAN 35S-LABEL was added to the culture and the plants were labeled for 5h with shaking in a growth room (23°C). After labeling, plants were washed with ATS liquid medium and incubated in ATS liquid medium containing 1mM Methionine/Cysteine and 100 μg/ml cycloheximide for different durations as indicated in Figure S3E before being frozen in liquid nitrogen. IP was performed as described above except that anti-c-myc affinity gel (Sigma) was used. After washing with the IP buffer eight times, the beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and the proteins were resolved on a 10% denaturing polyacrylamide gel. Gels were dried and exposed to phosphorimager screens for 24 hr. PHB-MYC amounts at different time points were quantified with ImageQuant TL7.0 (GE Healthcare). The PHB-MYC half-life was calculated using the formula t1/2 = (0.693 × time in minutes)/ln(N0/Nx), in which N0 and Nx represent the protein amounts of PHB-MYC at the time point zero and a certain time of chase, respectively. Note that we used the 1h time point for the calculation because of weak signals after 2h of chase. Total polysome preparation and fractionation were performed as previously described (CITATION). To isolate membrane-bound polysomes (MBPs), 2g seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was suspended in 7ml microsome extraction buffer (MEB) consisting of 100mM Tris-Cl, pH7.5, 5mM EGTA, 15mM MgCl2, 5mM DTT, 0.3M sucrose, 50U/ml superase·IN (Invitrogen), 50μg/ml cycloheximide, 50μg/ml chloramphenicol, and a complete proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The slurry was filtered with 2 layers of miracloth and centrifuged at 10,000 g for 15 min at 4°C to remove debris. 100μl of the supernatant was saved as the total RNA input, and the rest was loaded onto the top of a 2.5ml 0.6M/2.5ml 1.7M sucrose step gradient and centrifuged at 140,000 g in a Beckman SW41 rotor for 1 hr at 4°C. The microsome fraction, which sediments to the 0.6M/1.7M layer interface, was carefully transferred into a new tube. The microsome fraction was diluted 10 times by MEB and centrifuged at 140,000 g for 0.5 hr to pellet the microsomes. The microsomes were dissolved in 8ml polysome extraction buffer (PEB) consisting of 0.2M Tris-Cl, pH9.0, 0.2M KCl, 0.025M EGTA, 0.035M MgCl2, 0.2% Brij-35, 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.2% Igepal CA630, 0.2% Tween 20, 0.2% polyoxyethylene 10 tridecyl ether, 5mM DTT, 1mM PMSF, 50μg/ml cycloheximide, 50μg/ml chloramphenicol, 1% sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5mg/ml heparin. Next, sucrose density gradient fractionation was conducted on the microsomes following the same procedure as for total polysomes. Briefly, the microsome extracts were loaded onto the top of an 8ml 1.75M sucrose cushion and centrifuged at 170,000 g in a Beckman rotor Type70 Ti for 3h at 4°C to obtain the MBP pellet. The pellet was resuspended in resuspension buffer (0.2M Tris-Cl, pH9.0, 0.2M KCl, 0.025M EGTA, 0.035M MgCl2, 5mM DTT, 50μg/ml cycloheximide, and 50μg/ml chloramphenicol), and polysomes were separated by 15%–60% sucrose density gradient centrifugation. 17 fractions were collected for each sample with continuous monitoring at 254 nm using an ISCO UA-5 UV detector (ISCO, Inc).
