!~ABS~! The sporopollenin polymer is the major constituent of exine, the outer pollen wall. Recently fatty acid derivatives have been shown to be the precursors of sporopollenin building units. ACYL-COA SYNTHETASE, POLYKETIDE SYNTHASE A (PKSA) and PKSB, TETRAKETIDE α-PYRONE REDUCTASE1 (TKPR1) and TKPR2 have been demonstrated to be involved in sporopollenin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Here all these sporopollenin biosynthetic enzymes but TKPR2 have been immunolocalized to endoplasmic reticulum of anther tapetal cells. Pull-down experiments demonstrated that tagged recombinant proteins interacted to form complexes whose constituents were characterized by immunoblotting. In vivo protein interactions were evidenced by yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid analysis and by fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy/Förster resonance energy transfer studies in transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana, which were used to test the possibility that the enzymes interact to form a biosynthetic metabolon. Various pairs of proteins fused to two distinct fluorochromes were coexpressed in N. benthamiana leaf tissues and fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy/Förster resonance energy transfer measurements demonstrated that proteins interacted pairwise in planta. Taken together, these results suggest the existence of a sporopollenin metabolon.
!~RES~! Exine constituents are produced in the tapetum cell layer of the anthers and then are secreted into the locules. The synthesis of fatty acid precursors takes place in tapetum plastids, and fatty acids are activated with CoA by the acyl-CoA synthetase ACOS5 and transported to the cytoplasm. ACOS5, the polyketide synthases PKSA and PKSB, and the tetraketide reductases TKPR1 and TKPR2 have all been shown recently to be required for exine formation and to constitute the biosynthetic pathway leading to sporopollenin monomers (CITATION; CITATION). Exine is formed at a rapid pace during the development of microspores into mature pollen grains that is completed in a few hours (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This implies a high rate of synthesis of sporopollenin monomers and thus an efficient catalysis of products by the enzymes involved in the pathway. To understand how the pathway is regulated and organized in tapetal cells, we first immunolocalized the enzymes involved in sporopollenin biosynthesis. Closed flower buds were collected at stage 10 of flower development, as defined by CITATION, and contained stamens at stages 8 to 9, as defined by CITATION, that were shown to highly express the sporopollenin biosynthetic pathway (CITATION; CITATION). Specific antibodies raised against purified recombinant proteins were used to probe anther sections. Figure 1 presents the immunochemical localization of the enzymes in tapetal cells by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). As shown in Figure 1A, no significant labeling was detected in preimmune-treated control sections. Sections probed with anti-PKSA antibodies revealed a strong immunogold labeling in tapetal cells (Fig. 1B). The labeling was mainly associated with ER, which is abundant in tapetal cells, and this is particularly evident at high magnification (see insert in Fig. 1B). A similar ER localization was observed for PKSB immunogold labeling (Fig. 1C). In the case of ACOS5, the labeling was found to be associated in part with ER, but another part of the labeling was detected elsewhere in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1D). When the number of ER-associated labeling spots was quantified on numerous anther sections, distinct ratios of ER labeling to total labeling were found for the different enzymes. Table I shows that about 80% of PKSA and PKSB labeling localized to the ER compartment. On the numerous tapetal cell sections that were observed after immunolabeling, the ER compartment occupied 21% to 32% of the cell volume as measured on micrographs using the ImageJ program. Thus, the data clearly demonstrate the localization of PKS proteins on the ER. Concerning ACOS5, 50% of the labeling appeared to be associated with ER, the other 50% of the labeling spots being detected elsewhere in cytoplasm (Fig. 1D; Table I). These figures are significantly higher than the ER surface ratio on micrographs (21%–32%) and indicate a preferential localization of ACOS5 to the ER, even though a part of the protein remains soluble and localizes to cytoplasm compartment. TKPR1 appeared mainly associated with ER membranes, as the majority of spots localized to the ER (Fig. 1E) in contrast to TKPR2, the labeling of which was found distributed over the whole tapetal cell without distinct localization (Fig. 1F). These observations were confirmed by the evaluation of the proportion of spots detected in the ER compartment over the total number of labeling spots. Table I shows that a large part of TKPR1 labeling (80%) was found associated with the ER similarly to what was measured for PKSA and PKSB proteins and in sharp contrast to the low ratio of ER-localized TKPR2 labeling (35%). These results indicate that the two reductases have distinct cellular localization, and this finding is in agreement with the data obtained previously by confocal microscopy (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The number of dots on TEM micrographs were counted, and the proportion of labeling associated with ER for each protein was expressed as the percentage of the total number of dots (n). The colocalization of several sporopollenin biosynthetic enzymes on the endoplasmic reticulum of tapetal cells suggests the potential existence of protein-protein interactions that may favor the metabolic flux along the biosynthetic chain. Therefore we used various assays to test this possibility in vivo and in vitro. Recombinant proteins bearing His tags were expressed in bacteria and bound to nickel-bearing affinity gel. They were used as baits and were tested for their capacity to capture candidate prey in pull-down experiments. Potential bait and prey proteins were coincubated and then passed through affinity gel, bait being immobilized on agarose beads by its His tag. After washing, proteins were eluted, and the presence of the prey in the protein complexes was tested by immunoblotting using specific antibodies. Results are presented in Figure 2. When ACOS5 was used as bait, PKSA and TKPR1 were found in protein complexes bound to the affinity beads, whereas no prey was captured in the absence of the bait, thus showing that the bait-prey interactions were specific (Fig. 2A). Similarly, when used as baits, PKSA and PKSB interacted with ACOS5 and TKPR1, which were pulled down in protein complexes bound to affinity gel (Fig. 2, B and C). Controls performed without either PKSA or PKSB as bait were negative, thus excluding the occurrence of nonspecific interaction of the prey with the affinity beads (Fig. 2, B and C). With ACOS5, PKSA, or PKSB as bait, TKPR2 was never found in protein fraction pulled down on affinity beads (Fig. 2C), revealing that, in contrast to the other reductase TKPR1, TKPR2 is not associated in complexes involving ACOS5, PKSA, and PKSB. [[FIGURE]] We performed a yeast two-hybrid analysis of protein-protein interactions involving ACOS5 and the other sporopollenin biosynthetic enzymes. To that aim, we produced fusions to either the GALACTOSE4 (GAL4) DNA-binding domain (BD) or activation domain (AD). After yeast transformation with different couples of AD and BD constructs, mating mixtures were plated on yeast media lacking Leu, Trp, and His to select transformed colonies wherein protein interactions would lead to HIS3 gene activation. This was the case when yeast was transformed with AD-PKSB and BD-ACOS5 constructs (Fig. 3B, line B/5), AD-TKPR1 and BD-ACOS5 constructs (Fig. 3B, line 1/5), and AD-CYP703 and BD-ACOS5 constructs (Fig. 3B, line 3/5), thus revealing that ACOS5 interacted with PKSB, TKPR1, and CYP703 in yeast two-hybrid assay. It is noteworthy that the reverse combinations (where the baits were used as prey and the prey as baits) did allow growth on His-depleted media only for colonies transformed with AD-ACOS5 and BD-CYP703 (Fig. 3B, line 5/3), thus indicating effective interactions between ACOS5 and CYP703 proteins in both orientations, in contrast with negative data observed with ACOS5/CYP704 proteins. Most importantly, all the controls where the bait or prey constructs were introduced in yeast together with an empty AD or BD plasmid respectively, were negative (Fig. 3B, 0/X or X/0). These negative controls demonstrated that no autoactivation of the baits or prey alone occurred and thus the growth of transformed colonies on selective media was due to protein-protein interactions between baits and prey. [[FIGURE]] We used FRET measured by FLIM to investigate the occurrence of protein interactions in transgenic N. benthamiana leaves. FRET is the process by which energy absorbed by one fluorescent protein, the donor, is transferred to another fluorescent protein, the acceptor. Since efficient energy transfer can only occur if distance between fluorophores is less than 10 nm, FRET can be used to monitor protein-protein interactions in living cells (CITATION). To that aim, enhanced GFP (eGFP) was used as donor and fused to one protein of interest, and red fluorescent protein (RFP) was used as acceptor fused to a potential interactant. The change in the donor fluorescence lifetime in the presence of acceptor was measured by FLIM, and results are given in Figure 4. Controls were carried out with each donor in the presence of an ER marker that consisted of the amino acid sequence HDEL fused to RFP and used as acceptor. In the presence of PKSA and PKSB constructs, fluorescence lifetime value of ACOS5-eGFP was found significantly decreased compared with control (ACOS5/ER), as shown in Figure 4B, thus revealing interactions between ACOS5 and PKS proteins. A similar decrease of fluorescence lifetime was observed for the ACOS5 construct in the presence of TKPR1-RFP as acceptor. In contrast, the presence of TKPR2-RFP acceptor did not significantly affect ACOS5-eGFP donor fluorescence (Fig. 4B). Similarly Figure 4C shows that fluorescence lifetime of CYP704-eGFP donor is strongly decreased in the presence of PKSA-RFP, PKSB-RFP, and TKPR1-RFP constructs but not in the presence of TKPR2-RFP fusion, indicating efficient FRET in the former experiments but not in the latter. When PKSA-eGFP (Fig. 4D) or PKSB-eGFP (Fig. 4E) was used as donor, the most decreased lifetime value was monitored for homologous RFP constructs, thus confirming the formation of homodimers for both PKS proteins (CITATION). In contrast, the low level of FRET between PKSA and PKSB constructs indicates that PKS proteins do not associate in heteromers (Fig. 4, D and E). A strong decrease of lifetime of PKSA-eGFP and PKSB-eGFP was observed in the presence of TKPR1-RFP and ACOS5-RFP constructs, thus reflecting the interactions between PKS proteins and both TKPR1 and ACOS5. Low FRET level was monitored with TKPR2-RFP construct, confirming that TKPR2 is not closely associated with PKS proteins (Fig. 4, D and E). [[FIGURE]] Altogether, FLIM/FRET results indicate that ACOS5, PKSA, PKSB, TKPR1, and CYP704 proteins interact together on the endoplasmic reticulum of plant cells, whereas TKPR2 does not interact with either protein, in line with its distinct cytoplasmic localization (Fig. 1). Interactions between several enzymes of the pathway in planta suggest the occurrence of a sporopollenin metabolon that allows a rapid and efficient rate of biosynthesis of the exine building units by tapetal cells on pollen cell wall formation.
!~MM~! Full coding sequences of At1g02050 (PKSA), At4g34850 (PKSB), At1g35420 (TKPR1), At1g68540 (TKPR2), and At1g62940 (ACOS5) genes were cloned in pGEX-KG after PCR amplification using forward and reverse primers as described in CITATION. Error-free constructs were transformed into Escherichia coli BL21-G612 strain, a kanamycin-resistant strain that carries pLysS plasmid and expresses rare prokaryotic genes. Conditions of expression and purification of the recombinant proteins and procedures used for raising and purifying specific antibodies in rabbits were as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Flower buds expressing biosynthetic genes were selected as follows. On each inflorescence the ninth- to 11th-youngest buds were collected, counting backward from the bud having petals just protruding (stage 13, CITATION) as number one. Buds were fixed for 2 h with 3% (v/v) paraformaldehyde in 150 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, and postfixed in osmium tetraoxide. Samples were then stained with uranyl acetate and dehydrated in an ethanol gradient up to 100% (30 min each step) and then progressively embedded in LR white resin and allowed to polymerize for at least 48 h. Thin sections (70 nm) were taken using a diamond knife microtome (Reichert-Jung Ultracut E) and placed on formvar-coated nickel grids. Sections showing precise stage-8 to -9 anthers (CITATION) were identified by TEM and submitted to immunolabeling. Before immunolabeling, sections were rehydrated in water and then blocked for 30 min in a phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) solution containing 1% bovine serum albumin. The rabbit antisera obtained and purified as described previously (CITATION) were diluted 100- to 500-fold in the blocking solution. Thin sections were incubated in the serum solutions 2 h at room temperature. Then, after three successive washes with PBS buffer, sections were incubated for 2 h at room temperature with goat anti-rabbit igG coupled with 15-nm gold particles (Aurion, The Netherlands) diluted 1/50 in PBS containing 0.1% bovine serum albumin. Sections were then successively washed three times in PBS buffer and three times in water, then dried and observed using a Hitachi H-600 transmission electron microscope equipped with an Orca HR Hamamatsu camera. The Arabidopsis At1g02050, At4g34850, At1g35420, and At1g62940 genes were cloned into the pHGWA and pGEX-KG vectors to be used as baits or prey, respectively. Constructs were transformed into E. coli SoluBL21 strain (AMS Biotechnology) to produce recombinant proteins. Prey proteins were purified as glutathione S-transferase fusions, and glutathione S-transferase tags were subsequently cleaved by thrombin. His-tagged bait proteins were purified on nickel agarose beads as described in the GE Healthcare HisTrap HP protocol. Purified proteins were eluted in 50 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.6, containing 15% (v/v) glycerol and EDTA-free complete miniprotease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). For in vitro binding studies, 10 μg of bait and prey proteins were preincubated together for 1 h at 4°C in 300-μL buffer solution, pH 7.8, containing 20 mm MOPS, 500 mm NaCl, and 15% (v/v) glycerol. Then, 80 μL of His-select nickel affinity gel (Sigma) was added to the samples that were rotated for 1 h at 4°C. As control, each prey was incubated with the affinity gel in the absence of bait protein to evaluate nonspecific binding of the prey to the beads. At the end of incubation, the samples were centrifuged at 4°C for 4 min at 1,000g and washed three times with 300 μL of 20 mm MOPS washing buffer, pH 7.8, containing 500 mm NaCl, 15% glycerol, and 20 mm imidazole. Proteins were eluted by incubation in 100 μL 20 mm MOPS buffer, pH 7.8, containing 500 mm NaCl, 15% glycerol, and 250 mm imidazole, and then separated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted using a specific antiserum to detect the presence of the prey protein. For two-hybrid analysis of interacting proteins, AH109 yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain (Clontech) was used, and cotransformation was performed according to the Clontech yeast protocols handbook. The full-length open reading frames of At1g02050, At4g34850, At1g35420, At1g68540, At1g62940, At1g01280, and At1g69500 genes were amplified and inserted in frame with GAL4-BD in pGBKT7 vector or with the GAL4-AD domain in the pGADT7 vector (Clontech), under the control of 35S promoter in both cases. To test for autoactivation activity, the empty pGADT7 and one of the GAL4-BD fusions or the empty pGBKT7 and one of the GAL4-AD fusions were cotransformed into AH109 yeast cells and selected in the absence His, Leu, and Trp to check for autoactivation. The retinoblastoma protein (Rb1) of maize (Zea mays) and the RepA protein of wheat (Triticum aestivum) dwarf geminivirus were expressed and served as positive controls (CITATION). No background activity was observed. C-terminal fusions of the complementary DNAs encoding sporopollenin enzymes to eGFP or RFP were cloned by PCR using the primer pairs given in Supplemental Table S1. They were inserted under the control of CaMV 35S promoter into the expression vector pB7FWG2 or pB7RWG2, respectively, using the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen). The monomeric RFP with the C-terminal amino acid extension HDEL served as ER marker. It was expressed under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter and a downstream signal sequence (CITATION). Constructs were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration and imaged as described in CITATION. Three to 4 d after infiltration, fluorescent fusion protein lifetime was measured in the epidermal cells of infiltrated leaves for GFP constructs in the presence of various RFP constructs using a Nikon TE2000 microscope equipped with a 60×, 1.45-numerical aperture objective and a LIFA frequency domain fluorescence lifetime imaging system (Lambert Instruments). Measurements were acquired after excitation with a 483-nm light-emitting diode illumination source using a modulation frequency of 36 MHz and a fluorescein reference solution exhibiting a 4-ns lifetime. Two or three independent experiments have been performed and about 10 samples were analyzed in each experiment. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used for cloning.
