!~ABS~! The critical developmental switch from heterotrophic to autotrophic growth of plants involves light signaling transduction and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS function as signaling molecules that regulate multiple developmental processes, including cell death. However, the relationship between light and ROS signaling remains unclear. Here, we identify transcriptional modules composed of the basic helix-loop-helix and bZIP transcription factors PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTOR1 (PIF1), PIF3, ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL5 (HY5), and HY5 HOMOLOGY (HYH) that bridge light and ROS signaling to regulate cell death and photooxidative response. We show that pif mutants release more singlet oxygen and exhibit more extensive cell death than the wild type during Arabidopsis thaliana deetiolation. Genome-wide expression profiling indicates that PIF1 represses numerous ROS and stress-related genes. Molecular and biochemical analyses reveal that PIF1/PIF3 and HY5/HYH physically interact and coordinately regulate the expression of five ROS-responsive genes by directly binding to their promoters. Furthermore, PIF1/PIF3 and HY5/HYH function antagonistically during the seedling greening process. In addition, phytochromes, cryptochromes, and CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1 act upstream to regulate ROS signaling. Together, this study reveals that the PIF1/PIF3-HY5/HYH transcriptional modules mediate crosstalk between light and ROS signaling and sheds light on a new mechanism by which plants adapt to the light environments.
!~RES~! Previous studies documented that loss of either PIF1 or PIF3 caused overaccumulation of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide), a precursor of chlorophyll, in dark-grown seedlings and resulted in photobleaching upon transfer to light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The etiolated seedlings of the pif5 mutant also showed the photobleaching phenotype after light exposure (CITATION). To examine whether these PIF proteins have redundant functions in regulating seedling greening, we examined the phenotypes of the pif1 pif3 double and pifq quadruple mutant (loss of PIF1, 3, 4, and 5) (CITATION). The levels of Pchlide of dark-grown seedlings were determined by monitoring the fluorescence emission of the samples with a fluorescence spectrophotometer (CITATION). We found that pifq possessed the highest levels of Pchlide and that pif1 pif3 also accumulated more Pchlide than either of the single mutant parents and the Columbia (Col) wild type (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). We then tested the greening ability by subjecting 4-d-old dark-grown seedlings to increasing periods of growth in moderate light (60 µmol m−2 s−1) followed by 2 d of growth in weak light (10 µmol m−2 s−1). In the absence of moderate light treatment, ∼80 and 60% seedlings of pif1 pif3 and pifq, respectively, turned green normally, whereas pif1 and pif3 seedlings were indistinguishable from those of the wild type (Figure 1A). When the etiolated seedlings were exposed to moderate light for 5 min, ∼68 and 98% of seedlings of pif3 and pif1 pif3, respectively, were photobleached, while all of the pifq seedlings died. Moderate light treatments for 15 min to 6 h caused photobleaching in ∼40 and 85% of pif1 and pif3 seedlings, respectively (Figure 1A). These data indicate that PIF3 and PIF1 play major and redundant roles in promoting seedling greening and that the etiolated seedlings are extremely sensitive to the onset of relatively high light illumination. In the following experiments, all light treatments were performed in 60 µmol m−2 s−1 light. [[FIGURE]] It was reported that the seedling photobleaching phenotype during the dark-to-light transition is largely caused by ROS (CITATION). We then examined the cellular ROS levels of pif1, pif3, pifq, and the wild type by detecting the fluorescence of 2’,7’-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (H2DCFDA), a ROS-sensitive dye, in the cotyledons (CITATION). When 4-d-old dark-grown seedlings were illuminated with light for 24 h, H2DCFDA fluorescence (Figure 1B, shown in green) was strong in pif1 and further increased in pif3 and pifq compared with the wild type, whereas chlorophyll autofluorescence was only observed in the wild-type cotyledons (CITATION; Figure 1B). Free Pchlide is a potent photosensitizer that generates singlet oxygen upon illumination (CITATION). We thus investigated singlet oxygen production by these mutants using the fluorescent probe Singlet Oxygen Sensor Green (SOSG) (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1C, the cotyledons of pif1, pif3, and pifq displayed SOSG fluorescence, whereas the wild type did not, indicating that the mutants release singlet oxygen. Superoxide and hydrogen peroxide are often simultaneously generated in cellular compartments. Surprisingly, the levels of both superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, as determined by nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) and diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining, respectively, were reduced in pif1 and completely absent in pif3 and pifq, whereas they were abundant in the wild type (see Supplemental Figures 1B and 1C online). These results imply that PIF1 and PIF3 specifically prevent singlet oxygen production during seedling deetiolation. To determine whether photooxidative damage resulted in cell death in the pif mutants, seedlings were stained with trypan blue, which marks dead or dying cells. We found that the cotyledons of pif1, pif3, and pifq mutants showed a prominent increase in trypan blue staining; however, such stress symptoms were weakly detected in the wild-type control (Figure 1D). To quantify the extent of cell death in these mutants, we analyzed the cell death–induced electrolyte leakage of etiolated seedlings subjected to various periods of light treatment. In agreement with the trypan blue staining results, electrolyte leakage during the first 3 h of light irradiation was significantly greater in pif1 and pif3 than in the wild type and was greatest in the pifq mutant (Figure 1E). After 6 h, the electrolyte leakage of the pif3 mutant was similar to that of pifq (Figure 1E). A previous study suggested that quenching of singlet oxygen is primarily linked to the rapid turnover of D1 protein of the photosystem II reaction center (CITATION). As expected, the steady state level of D1 protein in the pif1 seedlings was significantly reduced relative to that of wild-type seedlings (Figure 1F). Taken together, our results indicate that PIF1 and PIF3, and possibly also PIF5, repress cell death during seedling deetiolation. To obtain insight into the regulation of PIFs at the whole-genome level, we performed a microarray study to compare global gene expression changes between pif1 and Col of 4-d-old etiolated seedlings treated with light for 3 h. Compared with the wild type, 1466 genes were induced, whereas 1409 were downregulated twofold or more in pif1 (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). A functional classification of differentially expressed genes was performed using GO::TermFinder (CITATION). Among the upregulated genes, categories of response to abiotic, biotic stimulus/stress, hydrogen peroxide, high light, oxidative stress, defense, and hormones were significantly overrepresented (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online for the complete list). Notably, the frequency of genes involved in the response to high light and hydrogen peroxide was 11 times greater in pif1 than that found in the whole genome. These genes encode transcription factors, such as ethylene-responsive transcription factors (ERF13, ERF4, and ERF1) and WRKY transcription factors (WRKY51, WRKY67, and WRKY46), various regulatory proteins (zat zinc finger proteins, ZAT10 and ZAT12, sigma factor binding protein, SIB1), heat shock protein (HSP17, HSP90, and HSP21), and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKKK19, MKK9, and MPK3), which are important components of ROS signaling pathways (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We also observed differentially expressed genes involved in jasmonate signaling (JAZ7, JAZ8, and JAZ5), defense (BAP1, PDF1.2, and RPS6), and antioxidation (APX2, AOX1, and MDAR2). [[FIGURE]] The repressed genes are mostly localized to the plastid and cytoplasm. Remarkably, the enrichment of plastid-localized proteins was more than 3 times that found in the whole genome (Figure 2B). These genes are involved in various aspects of photosynthesis and chloroplast development, such as the light reaction, light harvesting, chlorophyll biosynthesis, electron transport, and response to light, consistent with the photooxidative phenotype of the pif1 mutant (see Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 3 online). A comparative analysis with previous light-regulated transcriptomes (CITATION) revealed that 210 of the genes induced in pif1, and 734 of the genes repressed in pif1, were regulated by light (Figure 2C). PIF1 is capable of directly binding to the promoters of downstream targets through a G-box motif (CITATION). Interestingly, 341 (23.2%) and 307 (21.8%) of the induced or repressed genes, respectively, possess at least one putative G-box motif within the 2-kb promoter regions (Figure 2D). These data suggest that PIF1 may directly regulate a wide range of ROS-responsive downstream genes by binding to their promoters. To test the above hypothesis, two genes with prominent roles in ROS signaling, ZAT10 and ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE2 (APX2) (CITATION), two singlet oxygen-responsive genes, SIGMA FACTOR BINDING PROTEIN1 (SIB1) and ETHYLENE-RESPONSIVE TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR4 (ERF4) (CITATION), and an oxidative stress–induced gene, NDB2 [encoding a NAD(P)H dehydrogenase] (CITATION), were selected for further analysis. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that these genes were upregulated in pif1 and pif3 compared with the wild type after more than 1 h of light exposure (60 µmol m−2 s−1 for 1 to 3 h; Figure 3A), suggesting that PIF1 and PIF3 repress ROS-responsive gene expression in the light. The expression of APX2 and ERF4 was even increased in the pif3 mutant relative to the wild type when seedlings were exposed to light for half an hour. By contrast, no obvious expression difference between the mutants and wild type was observed in the dark-grown seedlings (Figure 3A). Furthermore, we found that after low light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) irradiation, the expression of APX2 and ERF4 was also upregulated in the pif3 and pif1 pif3 mutants compared with the wild-type seedlings (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] We conducted electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) to test if PIF1 could bind to the DNA of the downstream genes in vitro. GST-PIF1 (PIF1 fused with glutathione S-transferase) recombinant proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and incubated with 32P-lableled oligonucleotide fragments that contain putative G-box sequences of the target promoters. As shown in Figures 3B and 3C, GST-PIF1, but not GST alone, caused a mobility shift of the promoter fragments of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, and ERF4 (lane 2). Moreover, the amount of shifted band was significantly decreased by the addition of excess unlabeled wild-type DNA (lane 3) but not by that of the mutant competitors in NDB2 (CACGTG changed to CTTGTG; Figure 3C). To analyze the protein-DNA binding in vivo, we performed ChIP experiments using transgenic seedlings expressing Pro35S:TAP-PIF1 (CITATION) or Pro35S:Myc-PIF3 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). After precipitation with anti-Myc antibody, the DNA fragments were quantified by real-time PCR using primers spanning a region of the promoter that contains the G-box motif (region 1) and primers spanning a region that is upstream of the G-box motif (region 2) (Figure 3D). We found that the occupancy of PIF1 at region 1 of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2 was remarkably higher than at region 2 (Figure 3E). Similarly, PIF3 was strongly recruited to region 1 of those genes (Figure 3F). Hence, PIF1 and PIF3 directly associate with these key ROS-responsive genes. Previous studies documented that the ACE element (ACGT) and its special form G-box motif are putative binding sites of HY5 (CITATION; CITATION). We found that the ACE element is overrepresented in the promoters of PIF1-regulated genes (Figure 2D). We then asked whether HY5 and its close homolog HYH could also bind to DNA of the ROS-responsive genes. GST-HY5 and GST-HYH recombinant fusion proteins were incubated with probes of ERF4, SIB1, APX2, ZAT10, and NDB2 genes in the absence or presence of cold competitors. As shown in Figure 4A, both GST-HY5 and GST-HYH bound strongly to these genes and caused bands to shift upwards on the gel, although the affinity of HYH for the promoter fragment of APX2 was weak. These bands were much fainter or completely absent in the presence of excess amounts of unlabeled wild-type oligonucleotides but not in the presence of unlabeled oligonucleotides containing the G-box mutation (ZAT10 and NDB2 are shown), demonstrating that HY5 and HYH bind to the promoters of these genes directly via the G-box in vitro. To substantiate the binding in vivo, we performed ChIP assays of DNA isolated from Col wild-type seedlings using an anti-HY5 antibody. We found that the region 1 fragments of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2 were significantly enriched compared with region 2 fragments after precipitation with the HY5 antibody (Figure 4B), indicating that HY5, like PIF1 and PIF3, associates with the promoters of ROS-regulated genes in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] The ability of PIF1, PIF3, HY5, and HYH to bind the same cis-element of the target genes prompted us to test whether PIF1/PIF3 and HY5/HYH could interact with each other. We thus performed an in vitro pull-down assay using His-fused PIF1 (His-PIF1) or His-PIF3, and GST-tagged HY5 (GST-HY5) or GST-HYH recombinant fusion proteins. Our results showed that His-PIF1 and His-PIF3, but not proteins extracted from E. coli expressing His empty vector, were able to coprecipitate GST-HY5 and GST-HYH (Figure 5A). Using a yeast two-hybrid assay, we found that a LexA DNA binding domain fusion of the C-terminal fragment of PIF1 (LexA-PIF1C) interacted with the C terminus of PIF1 or HY5 tagged with B42 activation domain (AD-PIF1C or AD-HY5C) (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The full-length and N terminus of PIF1 showed strong transcriptional activation activity, as previously reported (CITATION). This result indicates that the C-terminal portions of PIF1 and HY5, which contain the bHLH and bZIP domain, respectively, are responsible for mediating their interaction. [[FIGURE]] We next performed coimmunoprecipitation assays using proteins isolated from Pro35S:TAP-PIF1 or Pro35S:Myc-PIF3 transgenic plants or from the wild type to substantiate the interaction in vivo. As shown in Figure 5B, the HY5 antibody was able to immunoprecipitate TAP-PIF1 or Myc-PIF3 fusion proteins, as detected by the Myc antibody, both in dark-grown seedlings and in plants transferred to light for 30 min. Next, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was conducted by transiently coexpressing the N terminus of yellow fluorescent protein (YFPn)– and the C terminus of YFP (YFPc)–fused constructs in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). Coexpression of HY5-YFPn and PIF3-YFPc, or HY5-YFPn and PIF1-YFPc, reconstituted a functional YFP in the nucleus with strong fluorescence in plants grown in darkness, but weak fluorescence after exposure to light (Figure 5C). Similarly, a firefly luciferase (LUC) complementation imaging (LCI) assay further showed that coexpression of HY5-LUCn and LUCc-PIF1, or PIF3-LUCn and LUCc-HY5, caused high levels of LUC activity (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). PIF3-LUCn and LUCc-PIF1 showed strong interaction, as previously documented (CITATION). Furthermore, a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis was conducted by coexpressing PIF1-YFP and HY5-CFP in the protoplasts. The sharp drop in fluorescence intensity of the acceptor PIF1-YFP due to photobleaching was compensated for by the increase in the intensity of the donor HY5-CFP, and the FRET efficiency was ∼0.2 to ∼0.3, whereas the FRET efficiency of the control where HY5-CFP was cotransformed with YFP alone was below 0.03 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Collectively, these data demonstrate that PIF1 and PIF3 physically interact with HY5 in the nucleus to form heterodimers both in dark and light conditions. The observation that PIF1/PIF3 and HY5/HYH physically interact and bind to common targets suggests that they might coregulate downstream genes. To address this possibility, we introduced hy5 and/or hyh mutations into the pif1 mutant background through genetic crossing, and double or triple homozygous mutants were used for analyses. When 4-d-old etiolated seedlings were transferred to light for a series of time (up to 3 h), the expression of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, and ERF4 was lower in hy5 than in the wild type after 1 h of light exposure. However, the transcript levels of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2 were drastically reduced in the hy5 pif1 double mutant and reduced even further in the hy5 hyh pif1 triple mutant compared with those in the pif1 single mutant background (Figure 6A), indicating that the repression activity of PIF1 is partly dependent on both HY5 and HYH in vivo. We found that after light exposure, HY5 protein level was gradually increased, while the level of PIF1 was drastically reduced (CITATION; see Supplemental Figures 7A and 7B online). To determine whether the two types of proteins are sensitive to light quantity during dark-to-light transition, we conducted immunoblotting with 4-d-old etiolated seedlings exposed to various intensities of white light. The data indicate that the stability of HY5 and PIF1 is modulated in a light quantity–dependent manner (see Supplemental Figures 7C and 7D online). Consistently, PIF1 was found to be sensitive to the intensity of monomeric red and far-red light (CITATION, CITATION). As the direct targets of PIF1/PIF3 and HY5/HYH, the transcript levels of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2 were gradually increased by increasing light intensities (see Supplemental Figure 7E online). [[FIGURE]] Next, we transiently expressed HY5 and/or PIF1/PIF3, together with a LUC reporter gene driven by the ERF4 promoter (the 2.0-kb region upstream of the ATG start site), in Arabidopsis protoplasts. As shown in Figure 6B, HY5 greatly promoted LUC reporter gene expression, whereas PIF1 inhibited the expression of LUC. Remarkably, coexpression of PIF1 or PIF3 drastically suppressed the activation activity of HY5 on the ProERF4:LUC reporter, suggesting that HY5 and PIF1/PIF3 associate with the promoter and act together to fine-tune ERF4 expression. Consistently, HY5 and PIF1 were able to form a heterodimer and bind to the promoter of APX2 and ERF4 in vitro (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). To determine whether the binding of PIF1 to the promoters of the target genes requires HY5, we performed ChIP assays using Pro35S:TAP-PIF1 transgenic plants in the wild-type and hy5 mutant backgrounds. Our data showed that relatively less target DNA was pulled down by the Myc antibody in the hy5 mutant than in the wild type both in dark-grown and light-treated seedlings (Figure 6C), suggesting that the DNA binding activity of PIF1, in part, requires the presence of HY5. Similarly, the binding activity of HY5 to the targets was also partly dependent on PIF1 and PIF3, as mutations in both PIF1 and PIF3 diminished the enrichment of downstream genes when pulled-down samples were analyzed with the HY5 antibody (Figure 6D). These data further indicate that HY5 and PIF1 are able to bind to these ROS-related genes both in darkness and after light irradiation. We next investigated how HY5 and HYH affect the function of PIF1 and PIF3. Mutation in HY5 partly inhibited the phenotypes of high Pchlide levels and low greening rates of pif1, and to a lesser extent of pif3. Relative to hy5, the hyh single mutant had minor effects on these phenotypes (Figures 7A and 7B). As shown in Figure 7C, we observed that H2DCFDA fluorescence was barely detected in the hy5 mutant seedlings after light treatment. The high level of H2DCFDA fluorescence in the pif1 mutant (Figure 1) was largely suppressed by the hy5 mutation in the hy5 pif1 double mutant, while the fluorescence in the hy5 hyh pif1 triple mutants was almost identical to that in the wild type. Compared with the pif3 single mutant (Figure 1), H2DCFDA fluorescence was also greatly reduced in the hy5 pif3 and hy5 hyh pif3 mutants. Consistent with this, singlet oxygen generation was largely blocked in the hy5 pif1 and hy5 pif3 double mutants relative to pif1 and pif3 (Figures 1 and 7D). Accordingly, trypan blue staining showed that the extent of cell death of the hy5 pif1 and hy5 pif3 double mutants was greatly reduced and close to the levels in the wild type (Figure 7E). Moreover, the electrolyte leakage of hy5 pif1 and hy5 hyh pif1 plants dropped to levels similar to those of the wild type (Figure 7F). [[FIGURE]] We further examined how the overexpression of PIF1, PIF3, or HY5 affects seedling greening and downstream gene expression. We found that the expression of ROS-responsive genes, including ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2, was decreased in the Pro35S:TAP-PIF1 and Pro35S:Myc-PIF3 transgenic lines, while the levels of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, and ERF4 were increased in the Pro35S:HA-HY5 overexpression plants compared with the wild-type seedlings (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). Consistently, PIF1 and PIF3 overexpression lines have higher greening rate than the wild type when dark-grown seedlings were exposed to high light (250 µmol m−2 s−1). By contrast, HY5 overexpression plants showed reduced greening ability compared with the control (see Supplemental Figure 9B online). We further examined the responses of PIF1 and PIF3 overexpression in the hy5 mutant background and found that their phenotypes were even stronger than the single mutant/transgenic line, consistent with their antagonistic role (see Supplemental Figures 9C and 9D online). Together, these observations demonstrate that HY5/HYH and PIF1/PIF3 antagonistically regulate singlet oxygen production and cell death during the seedling greening process. Interestingly, we further observed that HY5 and PIF1/PIF3 had a slight regulatory effect on each other at the protein level (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). We speculated that the phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors and COP1 might also contribute to the regulation of ROS signaling, as they are the upstream components in the light signaling pathway. To test this hypothesis, we grew seedlings of the phyA, phyB, phyA phyB, cry1, cry2, and cop1 mutants and also of the Col wild type in darkness for 4 d followed by 3 h of light exposure. qRT-PCR results showed that the transcript levels of APX2, ZAT10, SIB1, ERF4, and NDB2 were remarkably reduced in all of the photoreceptor mutants but were drastically increased in cop1 (Figure 8A), indicating that phyA, phyB, cry1, and cry2 promote ROS-responsive gene expression, whereas COP1 represses it. Surprisingly, the etiolated seedlings of phyA, phyB, phyA phyB, cry1, and cry2 exhibited low Pchlide levels relative to the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 11A online). Accordingly, the photoreceptor mutants had higher greening rates than the wild type when seedlings were grown in the dark for 4 d or longer and then exposed to light (see Supplemental Figure 11B online). A previous study showed that the cop1 mutant accumulated extremely high levels of Pchlide and was unable to turn green after light exposure (CITATION). Consistently, the photoreceptor mutants accumulated lower levels of singlet oxygen and underwent less cell death than the wild type. By contrast, the cop1 mutant displayed higher levels of singlet oxygen and cell death than the wild type (Figures 8B to 8D). These results indicate that the phyA, phyB, cry1, and cry2 photoreceptors and COP1 have opposite effects on ROS signaling and cell death. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The pif1-2 (CITATION), pif3 (Salk_030753; CITATION), hy5-215 (CITATION), hyh (cs849765; CITATION), pifq (CITATION), phyA-211 (CITATION), phyB-9 (CITATION), cry1-304 (CITATION), cry2-1 (CITATION), and cop1-4 (CITATION) mutants and the Pro35S:Myc-PIF3, Pro35S:TAP-PIF1 (CITATION), and Pro35S:HA-HY5 (CITATION) transgenic lines were derived from the Arabidopsis thaliana Col ecotype. Double and triple mutants were generated by genetic crossing and homozygous lines were confirmed by PCR genotyping and/or antibiotic selection. The original mutations in the transgenic lines were removed by crossing. Seedlings were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1% Suc and 0.8% agar. For light treatment, etiolated seedlings were transferred to moderate growth light (60 µmol m−2 s−1) for various periods of time or subjected to certain conditions, as described in the text. Greening rate was determined by counting the number of dark-green cotyledons from 50 to 80 seedlings of each genotype. For Pchlide measurement, dark-grown seedlings were homogenized in 500 μL of ice-cold 80% acetone and incubated in darkness overnight. Samples were excited at 440 nm and scanned from 600 to 700 nm using a fluorescence spectrophotometer (Hitachi). ROS fluorescence determination was performed as previously described (CITATION). Imaging of singlet oxygen production was performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, dark-grown seedlings were immersed in a solution of 10 μM SOSG (Invitrogen) in 50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, for 2 h in darkness and then transferred to light for 3 h. Following excitation of SOSG by UV light, fluorescence images were acquired with a charge-coupled device camera (Olympus) with a GFPA interference filter in the objective. Fluorescence intensity was determined by Image J software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), and the background was subtracted. For all histochemistry studies, etiolated seedlings were exposed to white light for the indicated period of time before staining. Trypan blue and DAB staining were performed as described (CITATION). For NBT staining, seedlings were submerged in solution (1 mg/mL NBT, 10 mM NaN3, and 10 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.8) and stained for 30 min at room temperature. Samples were then boiled in 95% ethanol for 10 min and stored in 60% glycerol. After staining, all samples were mounted on slides and photographed through a dissecting microscope. Cell death was quantified by electrolyte leakage, using a method adapted from CITATION. Dark-grown seedlings were transferred to light for 12 h and then immersed in 5 mL of distilled water in a glass tube for up to 24 h. The conductivity of the solutions was determined at different time points with a conductivity meter (HANNA Instruments). The maximum electrolyte content was obtained by boiling the samples for 25 min at 100°C. The electrolyte leakage rate was expressed as percentage of the maximum content. To obtain the open reading frames and/or the N- or C-terminal fragments of PIF1, PIF3, HY5, and HYH, PCR was performed using the primers listed in Supplemental Data Set 4 online and pfu DNA polymerase, and the fragments were cloned into the pEASY-Blunt vector (TransGen), resulting in pEASY-PIF1, pEASY-PIF3, pEASY-HY5, pEASY-HYH, pEASY-PIF1N (1 to 271 amino acids), pEASY-PIF1C (272 to 478 amino acids), pEASY-HY5N (1 to 77 amino acids), and pEASY-HY5C (78 to 168 amino acids). All clones were validated by sequencing. To generate constructs for the yeast two-hybrid assay, pEASY-PIF1C was digested with EcoRI and SalI, and the PIF1 C-terminal fragment was inserted into the pLexA vector (Clontech) cut by EcoRI and XhoI, to give rise to pLexA-PIF1C. The pEASY-PIF1, pEASY-PIF1N, and pEASY-PIF1C plasmids were digested with EcoRI and SalI, and the corresponding fragments were cloned into the pB42AD vector (Clontech) digested with EcoRI and XhoI, to generate pAD-PIF1, pAD-PIF1N, and pAD-PIF1C, respectively. To construct pAD-HY5N and pAD-HY5C, pEASY-HY5N and pEASY-HY5C, respectively, were cut with EcoRI and XhoI, and inserted into pB42AD. To construct vectors for expressing recombinant protein, the corresponding fragments from pEASY-PIF1 (cut with EcoRI and SalI), pEASY-PIF3 (cut with EcoRI and XhoI), pEASY-HY5 (cut with EcoRI and XhoI), or pEASY-HYH (cut with EcoRI and SalI) were cloned into the pGEX-5X-1 vector (GE Healthcare) and digested with EcoRI and XhoI, resulting in pGEX-PIF1, pGEX-PIF3, pGEX-HY5, and pGEX-HYH, respectively. The same fragments from pEASY-PIF1 or pEASY-PIF3 were also inserted into the pET-28a vector (Novagen) digested with EcoRI and XhoI, to generate pHis-PIF1 and pHis-PIF3, respectively. To make vectors for the BiFC experiment, the fragments from pEASY-PIF3 or pEASY-HY5 cut with EcoRI and XhoI were cloned into the pUC-SPYNE vector (CITATION) digested with EcoRI and XhoI, to generate pSPYNE-PIF3 and pSPYNE-HY5, respectively. The corresponding fragments from pEASY-PIF1 (cut with EcoRI and SalI) or pEASY-HY5 (cut with EcoRI and XhoI) were cloned into the pUC-SPYCE vector digested with EcoRI and XhoI, to give rise to pSPYCE-PIF1 and pSPYCE-HY5, respectively. To generate plasmids for LCI analysis, the fragments from pEASY-PIF3 or pEASY-HY5 cut with KpnI and XhoI were cloned into the pUC19-nLUC vector (CITATION) and digested with KpnI and SalI, to generate pLUCn-PIF3 and pLUCn-HY5, respectively. The corresponding fragments from pEASY-PIF1 (cut with KpnI and SalI) or pEASY-HY5 (cut with KpnI and XhoI) were cloned into the pUC19-cLUC vector digested with KpnI and SalI, to give rise to pLUCc-PIF1 and pLUCc-HY5, respectively. To construct plasmids for the FRET assay, the HY5 fragment was PCR amplified from pEASY-HY5 digested with BglII and KpnI and inserted into pSAT6-CFP cut with BglII and KpnI, to give rise to pCFP-HY5. The PIF1 open reading frame was amplified using pEASY-PIF1 as template, digested with SalI and KpnI, and cloned into the SalI-KpnI site of pSAT6-YFP to generate pYFP-PIF1. For the transient expression assay, the coding fragment from pEASY-HY5 (digested with EcoRI and XhoI), pEASY-PIF1 (EcoRI and SalI), or pEASY-PIF3 (EcoRI and XhoI) was inserted into the MfeI-XhoI site of pUC-3HA, resulting in the effectors Pro35S:HY5, Pro35S:PIF1, and Pro35S:PIF3, respectively. The promoter fragment (∼1.0 kb upstream of the ATG start site) of ERF4 was PCR amplified from Col genomic DNA and cloned into pEASY to generate pEASY-ERF4p. The LUC open reading frame was released from pGEM-LUC (CITATION) and inserted into the BamHI-SacI site of pUC-CPYNE to generate pUC-35sLUC. pEASY-ERF4p was then cut with HindIII and BamHI, and the promoter fragment was inserted into the pUC-35sLUC vector digested with HindIII and BamHI, to generate ProERF4p:LUC. Four-day-old dark-grown seedlings were transferred to white light or kept in darkness for up to 3 h. Plant total RNA was extracted using an RNAprep Pure plant kit (Tiangen), and the first-strand cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Real-time PCR was performed using the SYBR Premix ExTaq kit (Takara) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The expression levels were normalized to the expression of a UBIQUITIN (UBQ) gene. Primers are listed in Supplemental Data Set 4 online. The Col wild-type, Pro35S:TAP-PIF1, and Pro35S:Myc-PIF3 transgenic plants were used in a ChIP assay, following a previously described procedure (CITATION). Briefly, the seedlings were cross-linked with 1% formaldehyde and ground to powder under liquid nitrogen. After isolation and sonication, the chromatin complexes were incubated with anti-Myc (Abcam) or anti-HY5 polyclonal antibodies. The precipitated DNA fragments were recovered and quantified by quantitative PCR with the primers shown in Supplemental Data Set 4 online. The yeast two-hybrid assay was performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, the respective combinations of AD and LexA fusions were cotransformed with the LexAop:LacZ (Clontech) reporter construct into yeast strain EGY48. Transformants were grown on SD/-Trp-Ura-His dropout plates containing X-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside) for blue color development. GST and GST-PIF1, GST-PIF3, GST-HY5, GST-HYH, His-PIF1, and His-PIF3 recombinant fusion proteins were induced by isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside and expressed in the Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain. The proteins were then purified using Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare; for GST fusion proteins) or nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen; for His fusion proteins), following the manufacturer’s instructions. The EMSA analysis was performed as previously described (CITATION). The oligonucleotide sequences of the probes are listed in Supplemental Data Set 4 online. The procedures for these assays were as described previously (CITATION). Anti-GST (Abcam), anti-His (Abcam), anti-Myc (Abcam), and anti-D1 (Agrisera) were commercially available. Anti-HY5 and antitubulin antibodies were raised in rabbits (CITATION). Plasmids containing N- and C-terminal YFP fusions were cotransformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts as previously described (CITATION). The protoplasts were incubated under darkness for 12 to 16 h before observation. YFP fluorescence was monitored using a Leica TCS SP5 confocal microscope. For the transient reporter expression assay, the ProERF4:LUC reporter plasmid, effector constructs (Pro35S:HY5, Pro35S:PIF1, or Pro35S:PIF3), and the Pro35S:GUS internal control were cotransformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts. For the LCI assay, plastid combinations of various N- and C-terminal LUC fusions were cotransformed into protoplasts together with an internal control. The protoplasts were incubated under weak light for 12 to 16 h before harvesting. The LUC and GUS activities were determined with a luminometer/fluorometer (Promega) as described previously (CITATION). The relative LUC activity was expressed as the ratio of LUC to GUS. The pif1 mutant and Col wild-type seedlings were grown in darkness for 4 d and exposed to light for 3 h, and total RNA was isolated using the RNAprep Pure plant kit. Hybridization to the Agilent Arabidopsis Oligo Microarray (44k; Agilent Technologies) was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Three biological replicates were analyzed. Gene Ontology (GO) terms enriched in upregulated and downregulated genes were identified with GO::TermFinder (CITATION). Raw P values of GO term enrichment were corrected for multiple tests using false discovery rate (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: PIF1 (At2g20180), PIF3 (AT1G09530), HY5 (At5g11260), HYH (At3g17609), APX2 (At3g09640), ERF4 (At3g15210), SIB1 (At3g56710), ZAT10 (At1g27730), NDB2 (At4g05020), and UBQ1 (At3g52590). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The pif Mutants Accumulate Increased Levels of Pchlide in Darkness but Have Reduced Superoxide and Hydrogen Peroxide Levels after Light Exposure. Supplemental Figure 2. APX2 and ERF4 Expression under Weak Light Condition. Supplemental Figure 3. Characterization of the Pro35S:Myc-PIF3 Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. Interaction between PIF1 and HY5 in Yeast Cells. Supplemental Figure 5. HY5 Interacts with PIF1 and PIF3 in a Luciferase Complementation Imaging Assay. Supplemental Figure 6. Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer Assay between HY5 and PIF1 in the Nucleus. Supplemental Figure 7. Light-Dependent Regulation. Supplemental Figure 8. HY5 and PIF1 Form Homo- and Heterodimers That Bind to DNA in the EMSA Assay. Supplemental Figure 9. Analysis of PIF1, PIF3, and HY5 Overexpression Plants. Supplemental Figure 10. The Mutual Regulation between PIF1 and HY5 at the mRNA and Protein Levels during Seedling Deetiolation. Supplemental Figure 11. Greening Rate and Pchlide Levels of the Photoreceptor Mutants. Supplemental Figure 12. Time-Course Analysis of Singlet Oxygen Production and ROS-Responsive Gene Expression. Supplemental Data Set 1. List of PIF1-Regulated Genes Identified in the Microarray Analysis. Supplemental Data Set 2. Overview of the Category of GO Biological Process Enriched of Genes Differentially Expressed in pif1. Supplemental Data Set 3. Overview of the Category of GO Cellular Component Enriched in Genes Repressed in pif1. Supplemental Data Set 4. List of Primers Used in This Study.
