!~ABS~! The complex process of phloem sugar transport involves symplasmic and apoplasmic events. We characterized Arabidopsis thaliana lines ectopically expressing a phloem-specific gene encoding NDR1/HIN1-like26 (NHL26), a putative membrane protein. NHL26 overexpressor plants grew more slowly than wild-type plants, accumulated high levels of carbohydrates in mature leaves, and had a higher shoot biomass, contrasting with slower root growth and a lower seed yield. Similar effects were observed when NHL26 was overexpressed in companion cells, under the control of a companion cell–specific promoter. The soluble sugar content of the phloem sap and sink organs was lower than that in the wild type, providing evidence of a sugar export defect. This was confirmed in a phloem-export assay with the symplastic tracer carboxyfluorescein diacetate. Leaf sugar accumulation was accompanied by higher organic acid, amino acid, and protein contents, whereas analysis of the metabolite profile of phloem sap exudate revealed no change in amino acid or organic acid content, indicating a specific effect on sugar export. NHL26 was found to be located in the phloem plasmodesmata and the endoplasmic reticulum. These findings reveal that NHL26 accumulation affects either the permeability of plasmodesmata or sugar signaling in companion cells, with a specific effect on sugar export.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, NHL26 is encoded by At5g53730, which is composed of a single exon, as confirmed by ESTs and full-length cDNAs in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database. NHL26 is a 213–amino acid protein (23.9 kD) with a predicted transmembrane domain (amino acids 27 to 46) next to its N-terminal region, which is predicted to be cytosolic. NHL26 belongs to a plant-specific family for which no structural information is available. We searched for structural similarities to proteins of known structure, with the I-Tasser server (CITATION). NHL26 has a predicted structure similar to that of two late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins of subgroup 2 (LEA_2), the LEA14 late embryogenesis protein (Protein Data Bank [PDB] code: 1x08) and a LEA desiccation-related protein (PDB code: lyccA), the structures of which have been determined by NMR spectroscopy, with normalized Z scores of 2.02 and 1.76, respectively (C-score = −2.24; T-M score = 0.45). A similar result was obtained with the PHYRE server, with a high degree of confidence (98%) (CITATION). Alignments with these proteins indicated that NHL26 has four α-helices and seven β-strands that could form two antiparallel β-sheets (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In this model, the transmembrane domain toward the N terminus of the protein is predicted to fold as a large α-helix. NHL26 is not present on the Affymetrix oligonucleotide array (ATH1 22k) but is found on CATMA arrays. A survey of the gene expression data provided by the CATdb database indicated that NHL26 was expressed in all organs. We investigated the pattern of expression of NHL26 in various organs by RT-PCR: NHL26 mRNA was detected in mature rosette leaves, senescent rosette leaves, cauline leaves, floral stems, flowers, and roots (Figure 1A). CATMA array analysis showed an upregulation in rosette leaves after nitrogen deprivation and a downregulation of the expression of this gene in starch branching enzyme II double-knockout mutants (sbe1 sbe2) (CITATION), indicating possible regulation by nitrogen or carbon availability. The transcriptional regulation of NHL26 by sugars was assessed by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), which showed strong downregulation in response to Suc, Glc, and Fru (Figure 1B). Searches for cis-acting regulatory DNA elements in the NHL26 promoter, with AtcisDB, identified motifs associated with stress responses (MYB4 binding sites and a W-box motif) and light-responsive elements (SORLEP3, GATA motifs, and T-box motifs), suggesting additional transcriptional regulation of this gene by biotic stress and light. [[FIGURE]] The tissue specificity of NHL26 expression was investigated with a transcriptional fusion of a 1.5-kb NHL26 promoter sequence and the UidA reporter gene, encoding the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter protein. Two representative Arabidopsis transgenic lines expressing the pNHL26:GUS construct were analyzed (Figure 2). No GUS activity was observed in nongerminating seeds or embryos (Figures 2A and 2B). Three days after germination, GUS activity was detected in the vasculature of the cotyledons (Figure 2C). It progressively extended after 8 d in the vasculature, to the base of the hypocotyl, the roots (Figure 2D), and the cotyledons (Figure 2E). In mature plants, GUS activity was present in the vascular system of all organs, including mature and senescent leaves (Figures 2F and 2G), flowers (Figures 2H and 2I), and roots (Figures 2J and 2K) The expression of pNHL26:GUS in flowers progressed from the sepals, to the petals, and the stamen filaments. The vasculature was also labeled in siliques (Figure 2A). In mature leaves and in the floral stem, GUS activity was strictly limited to the phloem tissue in major and secondary veins and to higher order veins, such as freely ending veinlets (Figures 2L to 2O). It was observed in all phloem cell types, including parenchyma cells and CCs. [[FIGURE]] We first investigated the phenotype of nhl26 mutants. Three lines with an insertion in the NHL26 gene were available (nhl26-1, nhl26-2, and nhl26-3; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). In nhl26-1 and nhl26-2, the abundance of the NHL26 transcript was similar to that in the wild type, so these mutants were not studied further. In nhl26-3, we found a truncated transcript, ∼450 bases long, whereas the wild-type transcript is 642 bases long. There were no phenotypic differences between this mutant and the wild type. We also produced transgenic lines expressing an artificial microRNA (amiRNA) targeting an NHL26-specific sequence. Thirty independent lines were obtained, several of which had NHL26 transcript levels up to 90% lower than those of the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 2B online), but none showed any growth or developmental defect. The expression of the sugar transporter gene SUC2 and sugar accumulation were also normal in these plants (see Supplemental Figures 2C to 2F online). NHL26 belongs to a multigene family (CITATION), and the absence of an evident phenotype may reflect functional redundancy with other members of this family. A survey of the cell-specific expression of other members of the NHL family from available translatome data sets (CITATION) revealed that several related genes, such as NHL12, NHL13, NHL14, and NHL18, were expressed in the CCs of the shoot (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). As an alternative approach, we studied the effect of NHL26 overexpression under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter or, more specifically, in the CCs, with the strong CC-specific promoter of the PP2-A1 gene (CITATION), hereafter named pPP2 (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Several lines displaying higher levels of NHL26 mRNA accumulation were selected for each of these constructs. Further phenotyping and molecular characterization were performed on two representative lines for each construct, with similar growth and physiological effects on the plant phenotype associated with transgene expression in these plants (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The relative amounts of NHL26 transcript in the lines expressing p35S:NHL and pPP2:NHL were determined by qRT-PCR. This transcript accumulated substantially in p35S:NHL lines (300 to 800 times normal levels) and, to a lesser extent, in pPP2:NHL lines (2 to 4 times higher) (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), reflecting the restriction of expression driven by the PP2-A1 promoter to phloem CCs. The two types of line presented consistent growth alterations, with the p35S:NHL-expressing lines presenting more severe effects than the pPP2:NHL lines. One representative T3 line homozygous for p35S:NHL and one homozygous for pPP2:NHL (p35S:NHL 5.6 and pPP2:NHL 4.1; see Supplemental Figure 4 online), displaying 500 times and 4 times higher than normal levels of transcripts, respectively, were chosen for subsequent analysis. No differences between pPP2:NHL, p35S:NHL, and wild-type seedlings were observed in vitro. However, when grown in the greenhouse or in a growth chamber under long-day conditions (16-h photoperiod, 150 µE m−2 s–1), the pPP2:NHL lines grew more slowly than the wild-type lines and the p35S:NHL lines grew the most slowly of all (Figure 3A). Flowering time was delayed, by 1 week for the pPP2:NHL plants and 2 weeks for the p35S:NHL plants (Figure 3A). The growth of the flower stem of p35S:NHL plants was delayed (Figure 3B). Senescence was also delayed, with the leaves beginning to yellow 2 to 3 weeks later than for the wild type (Figures 3C and 3D). This slowing of flowering and senescence extended the growth period of the rosette, resulting in the final number of rosette leaves and rosette fresh weight being significantly higher in pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL plants than in wild-type plants (Figures 3E and 3F). By contrast, root biomass was lower (Figure 3G) and the shoot-to-root fresh weight ratio in pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL plants was 1.5 and 2.5 times higher, respectively, than that in the wild type (Figure 3H). At harvest time, the harvest index, defined as the ratio of the weights of seeds and total aerial parts, was significantly affected (Figures 3I to 3K). Seed yield and seed weight were lower than wild-type values (Figures 3J and 3L). The morphogenesis of the plant was not affected; leaf shape, stem architecture, flower, and silique formation were not altered. These effects on plant growth and biomass were not observed when plants were grown in short-day conditions (Figure 3M). [[FIGURE]] Another alteration observed in the rosette leaves in pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL plants grown in a greenhouse or a growth chamber was a progressive reddening, which started at the six to eight expanded leaves stage. The cotyledons and the juvenile leaves began to redden first, probably due to anthocyanin accumulation, and the reddening then spread to adult leaves, progressing basipetally (tip to base) as the leaves matured (Figure 4A). It began at the leaf margin, subsequently spreading to the regions between the veins. In the most severe cases, the rosette leaves developed spontaneous necrotic lesions (Figure 4B). Reddening progressed acropetally as the plants aged, with the younger leaves that were still expanding remaining unaffected. Determinations of anthocyanin content in leaf extracts confirmed that pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL plants contained significantly more anthocyanin (up to 10 times more) than the wild type. Thin sections of the leaves from pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL plants also confirmed anthocyanin accumulation and showed starch storage (Figures 4C to 4E). Redness and anthocyanin and starch accumulation were more pronounced and appeared more rapidly in the p35S:NHL plants than in the pPP2:NHL plants. [[FIGURE]] Sugar content was quantified in the rosette leaves of wild-type, p35S:NHL, and pPP2:NHL plants at bolting. At this stage, the first eight rosette leaves, which were typically fully expanded (i.e., source leaves), had reddened, whereas the last leaves to emerge, which were still expanding, remained green. The effect of NHL26 levels on sugar accumulation was determined either on leaves 3 to 6 (hereafter referred to as mature leaves) or on the leaves that were still expanding, leaves 8 and 9 (hereafter referred to as young leaves). The soluble sugar content of the young rosette leaves did not differ significantly between the transgenic lines and the wild type (Figure 4F). However, the sugar content of the mature, fully expanded leaves was significantly higher in the mutants than the wild type: There was 8 times as much Suc, three times as much Glc, and twice as much Fru (Figure 4G). These increases in sugar content were associated with a 50% decrease in the Suc content of phloem sap exudates (Figure 4H), with no significant effect on the Suc/hexose ratio (Figure 4I). The Suc content of the roots of NHL26-overexpressing plants was also lower than that of the wild type, but no significant difference between plant lines was observed for the Glc and Fru contents of the roots (Figure 4J). The proportion of carbon in the seeds of the p35S:NHL plants was low (Figure 4K), resulting in a low carbon/nitrogen ratio (Figure 4L) and an accumulation of nitrogen (Figure 4M). This suggests that the lower seed weight (Figure 3L) may result from a decrease in the export of carbohydrates rather than nitrogen compounds. An excess of carbon metabolites can trigger the negative feedback regulation of leaf photosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION). We analyzed the expression, in mature and young leaves, of the photosynthetic genes RBCS (encoding the ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit) and LHCB1 (encoding a light-harvesting complex II protein from photosystem II [PSII]). RBCS transcript levels were significantly lower than wild-type levels (Figure 5A) in the mature and young leaves of NHL26-overexpressing plants. An effect in the mature leaves was also observed for LHCB1 transcripts, although no significant decrease was recorded in the young leaves (Figure 5B). We investigated the chlorophyll content and activity of PSII in NHL26-overexpressing plants. The chlorophyll content of the mature leaves of p35S:NHL and pPP2:NHL plants was slightly higher than that in wild-type plants (Figure 5C), with no change in the chlorophyll fluorescence of the PSII in the leaves of overexpressing plants (Figure 5D), but with the expected massive accumulation of starch (Figure 5E) and a high protein content (Figure 5F). [[FIGURE]] The metabolic compounds in the mature rosette leaves of pPP2:NHL, p35S:NHL, and wild-type plants were analyzed by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS). We unambiguously identified 84 compounds, the abundance of 58 of which differed significantly between the lines (P < 0.01). The metabolite profiles of the overexpressing and wild-type plants were significantly different (Figure 6A), and this effect was more pronounced in p35S:NHL than in pPP2:NHL plants. The compounds accumulating in p35S:NHL plants included sugars, amino acids, and organic acids (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Consistent with the findings presented above, Suc, Glc, and Fru were substantially more abundant in p35S:NHL plants, and other sugars, including maltose, galactinol, raffinose, and melibiose also accumulated in large amounts. Mannitol, a polyol that is barely detectable in wild-type plants, accumulated in the p35S:NHL plants. The concentrations of several amino acids, including Gln, Asn, Gly, Ser, and His, were also significantly higher (10 times higher for Gln). The concentration of Pro, a stress indicator, was very high (up to 115 times wild-type levels). Gamma-aminobutyric acid, a nonprotein amino acid that serves as a stress signal, was also slightly more abundant. Most organic acids, except for citrate, and various nitrogen derivatives, including allantoin, urea, and putrescine, accumulated in the leaves of the p35S:NHL plants. Pipecolate, an osmolyte, was abundant in both p35S:NHL and pPP2:NHL plants, as was α-tocopherol, an antioxidant, which was slightly more abundant. Five metabolites were less abundant in the mutants than the wild type (uracil, citrate, linolenic acid, glycerol monostearate, and glycerol monopalmitate) (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). [[FIGURE]] Given the much lower Suc content of the phloem sap exudates of the mutants (Figure 4H), we performed metabolite profiling on the exudates of mature rosette leaves from p35S:NHL and wild-type plants (Figure 7). The metabolites in the phloem sap exudate were analyzed by GC-MS and quantified, to estimate their content per milligram of fresh weight of leaves. We quantified 64 metabolites in the exudate. The data set was normalized by least-rectangle regression, making it possible to carry out pairwise comparisons of the metabolite profiles and to eliminate the effects of differences in exudation efficiency between samples. We confirmed the much lower Suc content of the mutant (Figure 7A), in which raffinose levels were higher than in the wild type. By contrast, the mutant displayed no significant decrease in total amino acid content (Figure 7B). Gln content was significantly higher in the mature leaves but unaffected in phloem exudate. A few amino acids, such as Glu, Asp, and Arg, were less abundant in the mutant, whereas Pro and His were more abundant. The lower Suc content of the mutant was therefore not correlated with a decrease in overall amino acid content. Total organic acid content was not significantly affected either, but the levels of succinate and glycerate were lower in the mutant than in the wild type. [[FIGURE]] We assessed G6PT expression in the young and mature rosette leaves of NHL26-overexpressing plants. G6PT (At1g61800) encodes a Glc-6-phosphate/phosphate translocator that is reported to be Suc responsive (CITATION; CITATION). This experiment was performed on the line that was less severely affected, pPP2:NHL, to limit the downstream effects that may result from an excessive accumulation of sugars. G6PT transcript content was higher in the mature reddened leaves from the rosette and in the stem leaves from the transgenic plants than in those from the wild type; no such difference was observed for the young leaves (Figure 8A). This is consistent with previous reports that G6PT expression is responsive only to high Suc concentrations (CITATION). We also investigated the expression of PR1 (At3g57260) and PR2 (At3g57260), both defense-associated markers (CITATION) induced by high sugar content (CITATION). As for G6PT, an accumulation of PR1 and PR2 transcripts was observed in the mature leaves of pPP2:NHL plants but not in the young leaves (Figure 8A). [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the transcription of SUC2 (At1g22710), which encodes the main influx Suc transporter involved in phloem loading in CCs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The level of SUC2 expression in the young leaves of transgenic overexpressing plants was moderately reduced (Figures 8A and 8B), whereas SUC2 transcript abundance was significantly lower in the mature leaves of NHL26 overexpressor plants than in the corresponding leaves of control plants (Figures 8A and 8B), by up to 80% reduction. The expression of two genes involved in nitrogen transport was also monitored: AAP2, which is involved in the transfer of amino acids from xylem to phloem and phloem loading (CITATION), and NRT1.7, involved in the source-to-sink remobilization of nitrate (CITATION). AAP2 expression levels were lower, whereas NRT1.7 expression levels were higher in NHL26-overexpressing lines (Figures 8D to 8G). This effect was more pronounced in mature leaves than in young leaves and was stronger in p35S:NHL plants than in pPP2:NHL plants. The subcellular distribution of NHL26 was first examined with a pNHL:NHL-CFP (for cyan fluorescent protein) construct in a transient expression assay on epidermal cells from the cotyledons of Arabidopsis plants. When observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), CFP fluorescence showed a punctate pattern at the periphery of the cells (Figure 9A). When performed on the p35S:PDLP1-GFP–expressing Arabidopsis line (CITATION), which produces a plasmodesmal protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP), we observed that the NHL-CFP fusion and PDLP1-GFP colabeled the same structures in epidermal cells (Figures 9A to 9C), demonstrating that NHL26 was located in PD. PDLP1 was observed within the PD pore, whereas NHL26 was located outside the pore (details; Figures 9A to 9C). Similar results were obtained with N- and C-terminal GFP translational fusions under the control of the 35S promoter in transient expression assays on epidermal cells from the leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana (data not shown). We confirmed this localization in transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing the pNHL:NHL-GFP construct. Fluorescence was observed in the phloem cells of the veins, including phloem parenchyma cells, CCs, and SEs (Figures 9D and 9E). The signal in phloem parenchyma cells and CCs was punctate and peripheral (Figures 9F and 9G), consistent with a plasmodesmal location. In the SEs, a stacked fluorescence signal was observed at the cell periphery, with regular thickening reminiscent of the SE reticulum (Figure 9G). Labeling was also observed in the CCs, in a network surrounding the nucleus, consistent with an ER location. In epidermal cells from Arabidopsis lines expressing the NHL-GFP fusion under the control of the 35S constitutive promoter, based on use of the p35S:NHL-GFP construct, intense fluorescence was observed. This signal was localized to the ER. After plasmolysis, it remained attached to the cell wall (Figure 9I), consistent with its previous localization to PD. [[FIGURE]] The association of NHL26 with the PD and the ER in phloem cells was confirmed by immunogold labeling with a polyclonal antibody against GFP on ultrathin sections of leaves from transgenic pNHL:NHL-GFP plants. High-resolution observations of the phloem by transmission electron microscopy showed that the antigen was present in the PD between phloem parenchyma cells and CCs (Figure 10A; see Supplemental Figure 6 online) and in branched PD between CCs and SEs (Figure 10B; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Gold labeling was also found in the SE reticulum (Figure 10C). No background signal was obtained in the absence of the primary anti-GFP antibody (Figure 10D), confirming the specificity of the antibody. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the transport activity of the phloem in p35S:NHL-expressing plants, with 5,6-carboxyfluorescein diacetate (CFDA), a phloem-mobile, symplasmic tracer (CITATION). This tracer was spotted onto a small area that had been peeled immediately before application to remove the epidermal and palisade layers (Figure 11A). From the peeled area, the CFDA progressively diffused from cell to cell until it reached the minor veins, where it rapidly entered for transport to the adjacent main veins. The translocation of fluorescence in the leaf vein system was monitored with a binocular microscope coupled to a video camera. On wild-type leaves, fluorescence was rapidly transported in the minor veins of the surrounding unpeeled region and the dye was present in the main veins after 2 min (Figures 11B and 11C). In the young leaves of the NHL26-overexpressing plants, which had not yet reddened, loading of the veins was still observed, although to a much lesser extent than for the wild type, as demonstrated by the faintness of vein fluorescence (Figure 11D). By contrast, no translocation of the tracer was observed in the mature leaves of p35S:NHL26-overexpressing plants (Figures 11E and 11F; see Supplemental Movie 1 online), indicating an arrest of phloem transport. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana NHL26 (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative [AGI] accession number At5g53730) is the most closely related ortholog of the celery (Apium graveolens) gene Ag HIN1 (GenBank No. JF776633). The NHL26 gene model, EST, and cDNA were analyzed with The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/). The promoter sequence was analyzed with the Arabidopsis cis-regulatory element database (AtcisDB, http://Arabidopsis.med.ohio-state.edu/AtcisDB/). The plant membrane protein database Aramemnon (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/) was used to identify the protein domains, transmembrane regions of the deduced NHL26 protein, and the orientation of its N terminus. Genevestigator https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/plant.jsp and CATdb (http://urgv.evry.inra.fr/CATdb) were used for expression data mining. Arabidopsis mutants affected in the NHL26 gene were identified with T-DNA express (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). One Columbia-0 (Col-0) insertion line and one Wassilewskija-4 T-DNA insertion line were identified, nhl26-1 (Sail633_F02) and nhl26-2 (Flag238_C12), with insertions in the promoter and downstream from the 3′ untranslated region of the gene, respectively. One Landsberg erecta transposon-tagged line, nhl26-3 (CSHL_ET8225), harbored an insertion in the coding sequence (Supplemental Figure 2A online). Plants homozygous for nhl26-1, nhl26-2, and nhl26-3 were genotyped by PCR with specifically designed primers. Transgenic plants expressing the plasmodesmal p35S:PDLP1-GFP reporter gene (CITATION) were kindly provided by Andy Maule (Norwich, UK). The binary vectors for plant transformation, for example, GUS fusions (pNHL:GUS), GFP/CFP fusions (p35S-NHL-GFP, p35S:GFP-NHL, pNHL-NHL-GFP, and pNHL-NHL-CFP), and overexpressors (pPP2:NHL and p35S:NHL), were obtained with Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). The At5g53730 gene contains no introns, so both the promoter and coding region were amplified from genomic DNA extracted from Arabidopsis (accession Col-0). The primers used for the first PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. These primers contain NHL26-specific sequences and recombination site-specific sequences. The second PCR step was performed with the primers attB1 and attB2 (AttB1, 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′, AttB2, 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′), which reconstituted intact attB recombination sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends of the PCR products. These PCR fragments were introduced into pDONR207 (Invitrogen) by BP recombination and then transferred by LR recombination into destination vectors (listed in Supplemental Table 1 online). GFP and CFP fusions were transferred into pMDC and pGHGWC binary vectors (CITATION; CITATION). The pMDC32 vector (CITATION) was used for overexpression driven by the 35S promoter. For overexpression driven by the CC-specific PP2-A1 promoter, the destination vector pBI101-pPP2A1-R1R2-tNOS was obtained by inserting a 1500-bp fragment carrying the promoter region of At PP2-A1 (AGI No. At4g19840) into the HindIII site of a modified pBI101R1R2-GUS destination vector (CITATION), from which the GUS sequence had already been removed. An amiRNA (CITATION) was designed with WMD3-Web MicroRNA Designer (http://wmd3.weigelworld.org; Stephan Ossowski, Joffrey Fitz, Rebecca Schwab, Markus Riester, and Detlef Weigel, personal communication) and inserted into the pRS300 vector, according to the protocol described on WMD3. The targeted sequence was 5′-CTACTCGTATATGCAGCGTAT-3′, corresponding to nucleotide positions 395 to 415 of the coding region, and the amiRNA was 5′-GTACCCGTATATGCAGCGTAA-3′ (reverse complement). The amiRNA precursor was then transferred into the binary vector pMDC32 (CITATION), under the control of the strong constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. All binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58pMP90 (CITATION) by electroporation. Arabidopsis wild-type (accession Col-0) plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION), in agrobacteria inoculation medium (5% Suc and 0.005% [v/v] Silvet L-77). Transformants were selected on kanamycin (50 mg/L) or hygromycin (15 mg/L), depending on the binary vector used. For the GUS lines, 14 transgenic lines were examined, eight of which displayed detectable GUS activity. Two T3 homozygous lines presenting a representative GUS pattern were chosen and used for the detailed analysis of expression patterns. For the overexpressor lines, 20 independent transgenic lines were produced for each of the two constructs and screened by RT-PCR to select 10 overexpressing lines. For both constructs, one representative line was selected for subsequent studies. Homozygous T3 seeds resulting from self-fertilization were used for further phenotypic analyses. For the GFP lines, T2 seeds resulting from self-fertilization were used for CLSM. All developmental and growth stages were determined as described by CITATION. For growth in vitro, seeds were surface sterilized and grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% Suc in growth chambers (18°C, 60% humidity, and 16 h light/8 h dark). Plants were grown in the greenhouse and growth chambers, in soil (Tref Substrates) or sand, and watered with Plant-Prod nutrient solution (Fertil). The number of rosette leaves was determined on plants grown in the greenhouse in long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle) and harvested at stage 6.10. Seed yield was determined on plants maintained in long-day conditions in growth chambers (150 µE m–2 s–1, 16 h light 23°C, 8 h darkness 18°C, 70% humidity). The harvest index was the ratio of seed mass to total aerial plant mass measured at harvest time. Experiments in short-day conditions (8 h light 23°C, 16 h darkness 18°C, 70% humidity, 150 µE m–2 s–1) were performed in a growth chamber. Roots were sampled from plants grown in sand in the greenhouse, in long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle). The pots were watered by immersion of their bases in a solution containing 10 mM nitrate, 2.75 mM potassium, 0.5 mM calcium, 0.7 mM chloride, 0.25 mM phosphate, 0.25 mM sulfate, 0.25 mM magnesium, and 0.20 mM sodium, pH 5.5. Shoots and roots were harvested at stage 6.0. For statistical testing, Student's t test was used, with P values <5 × 10−2 considered significant. Total RNA was isolated from frozen tissue, as previously described (CITATION). Reverse transcription was performed with 1 µg total RNA with the Superscript II enzyme (Invitrogen), after DNase treatment (Invitrogen). The primers used for PCR amplification are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Ef-1α was used as a reference gene in RT-PCR experiments. Programs were designed such that the PCR products were recovered during the exponential phase (30 cycles for NHL26 and 20 for Ef-1α PCR products, at 50°C). Control reactions were performed, omitting the reverse transcriptase from the initial step, to check for a lack of contamination with genomic DNA. qRT-PCR was performed with the MESA GREEN MasterMix Plus for SYBR assay, according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Eurogentec). Amplification was performed with 1 μL of a 1:10 or 1:20 dilution of cDNA in a total volume of 20 µL: 5 min at 95°C, and 40 cycles of 95°C for 5 s, 55°C for 15 s, and 72°C for 40 s, in an Eppendorf Realplex2 MasterCycler (Eppendorf SARL). A melting curve was obtained to confirm the specificity of the amplification. Relative expression was calculated as a percentage of the expression of three reference genes (TIP41, APT, and UBI10). The robustness of the results was verified with these reference genes, and the data are reported as percentages of TIP41 expression. The results were then recalculated as percentages of the expression in wild-type plants. The petioles of the mature leaves sampled at flowering time, at stage 6.10, were cut off and recut in buffer and immediately immersed in the collection buffer (50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, and 10 mM EDTA), as previously described (CITATION). Exudates of three replicates (three leaves per plant and three plants per replicate) were collected for 2 h and pooled, and the sugar content of the pooled samples was determined. The anthocyanin content of fully expanded mature leaves was measured by spectrophotometry, as previously described (CITATION). Starch was detected in mature leaves by direct dipping in Lugol's solution (2% KI and 1% I2 in 0.2 n HCl) for 2 min. Transverse sections (60 µm thick) were cut on a Leica-VT 1000S (Leica Rueil-Malmaison) vibratome after embedding in 8% agarose and were observed by differential interference contrast microscopy (Leica DMRB microscope). GUS activity was assayed histochemically, as previously described (CITATION), by overnight incubation at 37°C in 1 mg/mL 5-bromo 4-chloro 3-indolyl glucuronide, 100 mM Na2HPO4-NaH2PO4 buffer, pH 7, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, and 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6. Samples were washed in water and cleared in 96% ethanol. Thin sections (70 µm thick) were cut on a Leica-VT 1000S vibratome, as described above, and stained with phloroglucinol-HCl (1% [w/v] phloroglucinol in 6 n HCl; VWR Prolabo). Stained sections were observed under a binocular microscope or a Nikon Microphot FXA microscope and photographed with a Jenoptik ProgRes C10 plus digital camera (Clara Vision). Soluble sugar (Glc, Fru, and Suc) concentrations were determined enzymatically (saccharose d-glucose d-fructose kit; Boehringer Mannheim). Leaf material was collected 4 h after the beginning of the light period and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen, and soluble sugars were extracted by incubation in 80% ethanol at 80°C for 20 min (500 μL 80% ethanol/100 mg fresh weight). The pellet, kept for starch determination, was resuspended in water and incubated at 100°C for 2 h, and starch was determined after the release of Glc by incubation with α-amylase and amyloglucosidase (Boehringer Mannheim) at 50°C for 3 h in 20 mM acetate buffer, pH 4.6. The protein content of fresh tissue was determined with Bradford reagent (Sigma-Aldrich). Total N and C contents of seeds were determined with an elemental analyzer (Thermoflash 2000; Thermo Scientific). PSII activity was measured with a Handy PEA (Hansatech Instruments), with a 3000 µm m−2 s−1 light flash. Chlorophyll content was measured with a SPAD-502 chlorophyll meter (Konica Minolta). Duplicate measurements were made for each genotype, on 12 individual leaves sampled from the rosette of 8-week-old plants grown in the greenhouse, with and without the redness characteristic of sugar accumulation. N. benthamiana leaves from 4-week-old plants were used for transient expression experiments (CITATION) in a simplified infiltration buffer (10 mM MES, pH 5.6, 10 mm MgCl2, and 200 µM acetosyringone) with Agrobacterium strains harboring the GFP constructs (p35S:NHL-GFP and p35S:GFP-NHL), which were coexpressed with the P19 viral suppressor of gene silencing to enhance expression (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was assessed 2 to 3 d after infiltration. For transient expression in Arabidopsis, we used the cotyledons of plantlets grown in vitro (CITATION). The fluorescence of GFP and CFP fusions was visualized with a Leica TCS-SP2-AOBS spectral confocal laser scanning microscope. CFP was excited with a 405-nm diode laser, and GFP/chloroplast autofluorescence was excited with the 488-nm line of an argon laser. Emitted fluorescence was detected in the 450- to 520-nm range for CFP constructs, the 500- to 560-nm range for GFP, and the 650- to 700-nm range for chloroplast autofluorescence. Images were recorded and processed with LCS version 2.5 (Leica Microsytems). The colocalization experiments were performed in sequential mode. For plasmolysis treatment, to study fluorescence in the PD of epidermal cells, the leaves of seedlings grown in vitro were incubated for 30 min in 2.5% KCl, 0.2% CaCl2, and 0.7 g/L MES (657 mOsm/kg) and then observed by CLSM. For clear imaging of the leaf minor vein system, the abaxial epidermis was peeled off over a small area with a razor blade (CITATION), rinsed, and mounted in water immediately before observation. For phloem transport imaging, a small area (∼25 mm2) from the abaxial surface of fully expanded source leaves, taken from the leaf margin and at some distance from the main vein, was gently peeled away with a razor blade, and 5 μL of CFDA mixed isomers (60 µg mL−1) (Invitrogen) was applied to the surface. The treated leaves were immediately observed under a Nikon SMZ1500 binocular microscope, under UV light with a GFP filter, and the loading of the fluorescent dye was monitored by video recordings every 1.5 s for 2 min. Petioles from 21-d-old pNHL:NHL-GFP Arabidopsis plants were cut in 0.1 M Sörensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, and transferred to small plates filled with 20% BSA in phosphate buffer for rapid, high-pressure freezing in a Leica EM-Pact high-pressure freezer. Freeze substitution was performed in a Leica AFS, in anhydrous acetone and 0.1% uranyl acetate, at −90°C for 73 h. After a 20-h linear warm-up to −50°C, samples were rinsed in acetone and then in ethanol. They were infiltrated with resin over a period of 20 h, in a stepwise procedure: 25 to 50 to 75% Lowicryl HM20 in ethanol to 100% HM20. Polymerization was obtained by incubation for 48 h at −50°C and then 48 h at +20°C, under UV light. For immunolabeling, 75-nm-thick sections, mounted on Parlodion-coated nickel grids, were blocked by incubation with 2% BSA and 0.05% Tween 20 in TBS (0.02 M Tris and 0.15 M NaCl) for 30 min. Thin sections were probed with anti-GFP antibodies (Torrey Pines; TP401) diluted 1:250 or 1:500 in TBS with 0.1% BSA and 0.05% Tween 20 (0.1 BT) for 1 h at room temperature. After washing in 0.1 BT, the sections were incubated with anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to 10-nm gold particles (EM.GAR 10; Biocell) diluted 1:30 in 0.1 BT for 1 h at room temperature. After washing, sections were viewed at 80 kV in a FEI CM 10 transmission electron microscope. Digital images were obtained with a lateral XR60 AMT camera. Chemical derivatization and GC-MS metabolite profiling analysis were performed essentially as previously described (CITATION). For leaf samples, six independent biological replicates from each line were subjected to metabolic analysis and the experiments were repeated twice, with 50 mg of plant extract for each sample. Rosette leaves were sampled at stage 6.10 and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. After grinding in liquid nitrogen, 50 mg of powder was collected. The ground frozen samples were resuspended in 1 mL of frozen (−20°C) water:chloroform:methanol (1:1:2.5) and extracted for 10 min at 4°C, with shaking at 1400 rpm in an Eppendorf Thermomixer. Insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min and 4 µg of ribitol in 20 μL methanol was added to 900 μL of the supernatant. A 50-μL aliquot of the reaction mixture was dried for 3 h, under vacuum centrifugation, and stored at −80°C. For phloem sap exudate, three independent biological replicates from each line were subjected to metabolic analysis and the experiments were repeated twice, with 250 μL of phloem exudate for each sample. We then added 1 mL of acetonitrile:isopropanol (1:1) supplemented with 4 µg of ribitol to the exudate. The mixture was incubated for 10 min shaking at 4°C with shaking and was then centrifuged. We dried 100 μL of the supernatant in a vacuum centrifuge. Vacuum-dried samples were dissolved in 10 μL of methoxylamine (20 mg/mL pyridine) and incubated at 28°C for 90 min, with continuous shaking, in an Eppendorf thermomixer. We then added 90 μL of N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl)-trifluoroacetamide (Sigma-Aldrich) and incubated the mixture at 37°C for 30 min. The derivatized samples were kept at room temperature for 150 min before injection. Samples (1 µL) were injected in split-less mode into an Agilent 7890A GC coupled to an Agilent 5975C mass spectrometer. GC-MS analysis was performed on an Rxi-5SilMS column (Restek). The liner (Restek 20994) was changed before each series of 24 samples. The oven temperature ramp was 70°C for 7 min then 10°C/min to 325°C for 4 min (run length 36.5 min). The constant flow rate for helium was 0.7 mL/min. The temperatures were, for the injector, 250°C; the transfer line, 290°C; the source, 250°C; the quadripole, 150°C. Amino acid standards were injected at the beginning and end of the analysis, for the monitoring of derivatization stability. An alkane mixture (C10, C12, C15, C19, C22, C28, C32, and C36) was injected in the middle of the run, for external retention index calibration. Raw Agilent data files were converted into NetCDF format and analyzed with AMDIS (http://chemdata.nist.gov/mass-spc/amdis/). A custom-built standard library with retention indices and mass spectral collections, generated from the NIST (http://www.nist.gov/srd/mslist.htm), Golm metabolome database (CITATION), Fiehn database (CITATION), and standard compounds, was used for metabolite identification. Compounds were quantified using Quanlynx software (Waters). Peak areas were then determined with Quanlynx software (Waters), after conversion of the NetCDF file into masslynx format. TMEV software (http://www.tm4.org/mev.html) was used for statistical analyses of leaf extracts, including univariate analysis by permutation (one-way analysis of variance) to select the significant metabolites (P value < 0.01) and multivariate analysis (hierarchical clustering analysis and principal component analysis). For hierarchical clustering analysis graphical representation of the metabolic changes, we used Genesis (http://genome.tugraz.at/) after log2 transformation. Leaf metabolite data were normalized by dividing each raw data value by the median of all measurements of the experiment for a given metabolite. For the analysis of phloem sap exudates, amino acid standards were injected at the beginning and end of the analysis, for the quantification of amino acid content, in picomoles per milligram leaf fresh weight. After log2 transformation, the entire data set was normalized by linear regression with the least-rectangles method available from the RVAideMemoire Package, in the R software environment. The three-dimensional structure of NHL26 was predicted by searching for similarity to proteins with solved structures, with I-TASSER (threading/assembly/refinement) (CITATION; CITATION; http://zhanglab.ccmb.med.umich.edu/I-TASSER/). The model was confirmed with the Phyre2 server (CITATION; http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/phyre2/). A three-dimensional model was prepared with MacPyMOL software. The accession numbers for late embryogenesis proteins showing structural similarities to NHL26 are as follows: AGI, At1g01470; PDB id, 1xo8A (LEA14), and AGI, At2g46140.1; PDB id, 1yycA. Both proteins belong to the LEA_2 subgroup (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers for Arabidopsis sequences: At5g53730 for NHL26, At5g60390 for EF-1αA4, At1g61800 for G6PT, At2g14610 for PR1, At3g57260 for PR2, At4g34270 for TIP41, At1g27450 for APT, At1g22710 for SUC2, At5g09220 for AAP2, At1g69870 for NRT1.7, At1g29920 for LHCB1, At5g38410 for RBCS, At1g01470 for LEA14, At2g46140 for LEA-desiccation-related protein, and JF776633 for celery HIN1. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Predicted 3D Model of NHL26. Supplemental Figure 2. Characterization of nhl26 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Scatterplot of the Expression of NHL Genes in Phloem Cells and Other Cell Types. Supplemental Figure 4. Characterization of NHL26-Overexpressing Lines. Supplemental Figure 5. Metabolic Profiling in NHL26-Overexpressing Lines. Supplemental Figure 6. Localization of NHL26 in Plasmodesmata. Supplemental Table 1. Description of the Binary Vectors Derived from the NHL26 Gene Sequence. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for RT-PCR Experiments. Supplemental Movie 1. CFDA Phloem-Export Assay on Mature Leaves of Wild-Type and p35S:NHL-Overexpressing Plants.
