!~ABS~! Apical actin filaments are crucial for pollen tube tip growth. However, the specific dynamic changes and regulatory mechanisms associated with actin filaments in the apical region remain largely unknown. Here, we have investigated the quantitative dynamic parameters that underlie actin filament growth and disappearance in the apical regions of pollen tubes and identified villin as the major player that drives rapid turnover of actin filaments in this region. Downregulation of Arabidopsis thaliana VILLIN2 (VLN2) and VLN5 led to accumulation of actin filaments at the pollen tube apex. Careful analysis of single filament dynamics showed that the severing frequency significantly decreased, and the lifetime significantly increased in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. These results indicate that villin-mediated severing is critical for turnover and departure of actin filaments originating in the apical region. Consequently, the construction of actin collars was affected in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. In addition to the decrease in severing frequency, actin filaments also became wavy and buckled in the apical cytoplasm of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. These results suggest that villin confers rigidity upon actin filaments. Furthermore, an observed decrease in skewness of actin filaments in the subapical region of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes suggests that villin-mediated bundling activity may also play a role in the construction of actin collars. Thus, our data suggest that villins promote actin turnover at pollen tube tips and facilitate the construction of actin collars.
!~RES~! Based on the biochemical nature of VLN5, we proposed that it may act in concert with the tip-focused calcium gradient to regulate actin dynamics in pollen tubes (CITATION). However, loss of VLN5 does not affect the overall actin organization in pollen tubes (CITATION). Therefore, we hypothesized that VLN2, which is expressed in pollen (https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/index.jsp; CITATION; CITATION), acts in a redundant manner with VLN5 to regulate actin dynamics in the pollen tube. To test this hypothesis, we generated vln2 vln5 double mutants by crossing vln5-2 (CITATION) with either vln2-1 or vln2-2 (CITATION). Results from this analysis revealed that loss of VLN2 alone had no overt effects on pollen tube growth (see Supplemental Figures 1D and 1K online) but that loss of VLN2 enhanced the effects of loss of VLN5 (see Supplemental Figures 1F and 1K online). These results indicate that VLN2 acts redundantly with VLN5 to regulate pollen tube elongation. Compared with the wild type, vln2 or vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figures 1G to 1I online), vln2 vln5 pollen tubes became curled and wider at some regions along the tube (see Supplemental Figure 1J online). The width of pollen tubes increased significantly in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 1L online). Thus, these data suggest that VLN2 acts synergistically with VLN5 to regulate polarized pollen tube growth. To determine the role of villin in the regulation of actin dynamics in the apical region, it is important to first determine where it is localized in the pollen tube. Constructs containing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence fused with genomic VLN2 (VLN2GEN-GFP) or VLN5 (VLN5GEN-GFP) rescue the growth phenotype of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), indicating that these GFP fusion proteins are functional and suggesting that they faithfully represent the subcellular localization of VLN2 and VLN5, respectively. As shown in Figure 1, both VLN2 and VLN5 decorated filamentous structures in the shanks of pollen tubes, but the signal associated with VLN5-GFP was more prominent, consistent with the fact that VLN5 is expressed at much higher levels than VLN2 in pollen (CITATION). However, both VLN2-GFP and VLN5-GFP were present in the apical and subapical regions of pollen tubes, where they formed filamentous structures (Figure 1). Thus, these data indicate that VLN2 and VLN5 decorate filamentous structures found throughout the pollen tube, including the apical and subapical regions. [[FIGURE]] To visualize the dynamics of actin filaments within the apical dome, it is important to have a live cell probe capable of labeling actin filaments in this region. Lifeact-EGFP represents an ideal actin probe that labels actin filaments in tip-growing cells (CITATION). Lifeact-EGFP labeled actin filaments in Arabidopsis thaliana pollen tubes, revealing a typical distribution pattern (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Therefore, using this methodology, it is possible to visualize the dynamics of actin filaments and determine the parameters associated with filament growth and disappearance within the apical dome in Arabidopsis pollen tubes. Visualization of z-series optical sections revealed that actin filaments are present within the apical dome (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). To determine the site of origination of these filaments, we visualized time-lapse, z-series projection images of actin filaments, which revealed that most of the actin filaments grew out from the apical membrane (see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C and Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). These filaments are most likely nucleated by membrane-anchored formins (CITATION; CITATION). To further characterize the details associated with actin filament dynamics, we observed actin filaments at the cortex and the central portion of the pollen tube within the apical dome. Real-time visualization of actin filaments in the medial optical section clearly demonstrated that actin filaments originate and grow out from the membrane at the extreme apex, some of which shift from the apex to the apical flank (see Supplemental Figure 4D and Supplemental Movie 3 online). The newly generated actin filaments are highly dynamic, exhibiting rapid growth and shrinkage and frequent severing (see Supplemental Figures 4D and 4E and Supplemental Movies 3 and 4 online). The dynamic traits associated with actin filaments may explain why they are less abundant at the apex. Supplemental Figure 4F online (with the associated Supplemental References 1 online) shows a schematic diagram of actin filament growth and disappearance within the apical dome, proposing a model in which actin filaments are generated constantly from the membrane and turned over rapidly. The extreme tip, which contains fewer actin filaments, always faces toward the direction of growth (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), suggesting that the state of actin filaments at the extreme tip may be involved in the control of growth direction. To explore whether VLN2 and VLN5 cooperate with the tip-focused calcium gradient (CITATION; CITATION) to regulate actin dynamics, we analyzed actin filament dynamics within the apical dome of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. Similar to wild-type pollen tubes, actin filaments were detected in the apical region of the vln2 vln5 pollen tube (Figure 2A, a). Direct visualization of actin filament dynamics in both the middle and cortical regions of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes revealed that actin filaments originate from the apical membrane (Figure 2A, b and c; see Supplemental Movies 5 and 6 online). However, unlike wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Movie 7 online), actin filaments accumulated in the tips of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Movie 8 online). Kymographs of actin filaments in pollen tube tips showed that actin filaments accumulated at both the apex and the apical flank (Figure 2B). These results suggest that actin nucleation at the membrane of the apex is reasonably active. However, in contrast with wild-type pollen tubes, the loss of the membrane-anchored actin filaments via severing was rarely observed. In fact, after substantial accumulation of actin filaments at the apex of the vln2 vln5 pollen tube, the intertwined filaments were instead observed to depart from the membrane as a unit (Figure 2C; see Supplemental Movie 9 online). A schematic diagram describing actin filament growth and dynamics within the apical dome of the vln2 vln5 pollen tube is shown in Figure 2D. The diagram shows that long, intertwined membrane-originated and -anchored actin filaments remain intact within the apical dome of the vln2 vln5 pollen tube and that they depart from the membrane via an unknown mechanism. [[FIGURE]] To characterize the defect in actin dynamics within the apical dome of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes on a single filament level, we quantified the dynamic parameters associated with single actin filaments within the apical domes of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes and compared these parameters with those of filaments in wild-type pollen tubes. As shown in Figure 3, actin filament growth can easily be tracked, and severing events can be detected in wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Movie 10 online). By contrast, actin filament severing events were rarely detected in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Movie 11 online). In comparison to filaments in wild-type pollen tubes, the lifetimes of actin filaments significantly increased, and the filament severing frequency significantly decreased in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 3C), suggesting that loss of villin-mediated severing activity at least partially accounts for the accumulation of actin filaments in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. Additionally, the average severing frequency decreased significantly in both vln2 and vln5 single mutants (Figure 3C), suggesting that both VLN2 and VLN5 are required for severing actin filaments in the pollen tube. In wild-type pollen tubes, the elongation rate of actin filaments can reach 0.25 μm/s, consistent with the presence of a high concentration of actin/profilin complexes in pollen (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the actin elongation rate was decreased significantly in vln5 and vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 3C), likely due to the efficient conversion of monomeric actin into filamentous actin to consequently decrease the concentration of the actin/profilin pool locally and/or to upregulate the activity of another capping factor, such as At-CP (CITATION). Thus, these data suggest that the severing activity of villin promotes the rapid turnover of actin filaments in the apical regions of pollen tubes. [[FIGURE]] Apical membrane-nucleated actin filaments have previously been demonstrated to be required for the construction of subapical actin collars (CITATION). Thus, we hypothesized that the accumulation of actin filaments within the apical region of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes might affect the formation of actin collars at the subapex. Actin filaments typically formed bright, highly bundled structures in the subapical regions of wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 4A, boxed region). The organization of actin filaments in these structures was quite regular (Figure 4C), consistent with previous findings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the fluorescence associated with actin filament staining in the corresponding region of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes was quite dim (Figure 4B, boxed region), and the distribution of actin filaments was relatively irregular (Figure 4C). The significant decrease in fluorescence pixel intensity associated with F-actin staining in the boxed regions of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 4D) suggests that VLN2 and VLN5 are required for stabilizing actin filaments at the subapex. Additionally, the decrease in skewness at the subapex in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 4E) suggests that the bundling activity of VLN2 and VLN5 may be involved in the construction of actin collars. We also found that, compared with that in the wild type, the width of actin cables decreased and the angles formed between actin filaments and the pollen tube growth axis increased in the shank of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), suggesting that VLN2 and VLN5 are also required for bundling actin filaments as well as maintaining the longitudinal arrangement of actin cables in the shank region. The distribution of actin filaments in the subapex region of pollen tubes was assessed by measuring the value of “eccentricity.” This measure has previously been successfully used to assess the uniformity of cellulose microfibers (CITATION) and the organization of actin filaments (CITATION). By analyzing the elliptical shape of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) of actin filament images, we calculated eccentricity values. A larger eccentricity value (approaching 1) indicates that the orientation of the actin filaments is more ordered. The eccentricity value was significantly lower in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 4F). This observation indicates that the distribution of actin filaments is more random in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes, suggesting that VLN2 and VLN5 are required for the construction of actin collars. [[FIGURE]] We next performed live imaging of actin filaments to visualize the dynamic parameters underlying the defect in the construction of actin collars. Consistent with previous findings (CITATION), most actin filaments present at the subapex traveled from the apical membrane. In wild-type pollen tubes, linear actin filaments dissociated from the apical membrane via severing (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Movie 12 online). By contrast, actin filaments became wavy and buckled in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (Figure 5B; see Supplemental Movie 13 online). To quantify the wavy structure of these actin filaments, we assessed the “convolutedness,” defined by CITATION as the ratio of traced actin filament length divided by the longest length of a bounding rectangle. We found that the convolutedness and the rate of change of convolutedness of actin filaments was significantly increased in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes compared with wild-type tubes (Figures 5C and 5D). These observations suggest that the rigidity of actin filaments was decreased, resulting in buckling. We also noticed that at the subapex of wild-type pollen tubes, actin filaments forming wide angles with the growth axis of the pollen tube were frequently severed (Figure 5E). This finding suggests that severing activity may facilitate the construction of actin collars by eliminating improperly placed actin filaments. By contrast, in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes, the percentage of actin filaments forming wide angles (>60°) with the growth axis that underwent severing was substantially decreased (Figure 5F). Thus, these data suggest that VLN2 and VLN5 regulate the construction of actin collars by increasing rigidity of actin filaments, bundling actin filaments, and severing actin filaments. [[FIGURE]] Subapical actin structures have been suggested to play an important role in organizing the vesicles in an inverted cone-shaped area found in the apical region of the pollen tube. We therefore wondered whether the distribution of vesicles at the subapex was altered in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes. RabA4b is a Rab GTPase that specifically decorates vesicles found in this inverted area of the apical region of pollen tubes (CITATION; CITATION) and Arabidopsis root hairs (CITATION). Consistent with previous findings (CITATION; CITATION), YFP-RabA4b accumulated at the apical region of wild-type pollen tubes, forming a concentrated inverted “V” shape (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). However, RabA4b-labeled vesicles at the subapex in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes were more uniformly distributed and dimmer (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). Real-time visualization of RabA4b-labeled vesicles showed that despite the fact that they are transported rapidly, the concentrated inverted “V” shape of the vesicle pool is maintained in the wild-type pollen tube subapex (see Supplemental Figure 7B and Supplemental Movie 14 online). By contrast, the distribution of RabA4b-positive vesicles was less focused in the subapex of vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 7C and Supplemental Movie 15 online). To quantify the distribution of RabA4b-labeled vesicles in the pollen tube, we calculated the ratio of the fluorescence of RabA4b-labeled vesicles within the apical and subapical regions to the fluorescence of RabA4b-labeled vesicles at the shanks of pollen tubes. This ratio was significantly decreased in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 7D online). These data indicate that the vesicle distribution was altered in vln2 vln5 pollen tubes compared with wild-type pollen tubes, which may partially explain the decreased rate of pollen tube growth in vln2 vln5 plants.
!~MM~! To examine the subcellular localization of VLN2 and VLN5 in pollen tubes, VLN2 and VLN5 genomic DNAs were amplified using primer pairs V2GENF/V2GENR and V5GENF/V5GENR (see Supplemental Table 1 online), respectively. The amplified fragments were subsequently cloned into the pDONR221 entry vector (Life Technologies) through a Gateway BP reaction according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After verification of the sequence of the amplified fragments by DNA sequencing, the sequences were transferred into the pK7FWG2 destination vector, in which the 35S promoter had been deleted, via the Gateway LR reaction according to the manufacturer’s instructions. This procedure resulted in the generation of the VLN2GEN-GFP and VLN5GEN-GFP constructs, in which GFP was fused to the C terminus of VLN2 or VLN5, respectively. These plasmids were then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and introduced into vln2-2, vln5-1, or vln2-2 vln5-2 plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Freshly opened flowers derived from the wild type, vln2, vln5, and vln2 vln5 were collected to isolate total RNA using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), as described in the manufacturer’s instructions. To synthesize cDNA, the isolated total RNA was used for reverse transcription with MMLV reverse transcriptase (Promega), according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. Full-length VLN2 and VLN5 were amplified with primer pairs V2F1/V2R1 and V5F1/V5R1 (see Supplemental Table 1 online), respectively. eIF4A was used as an internal control amplified with primer pair eIF4AF/eIF4AR (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The PCR products were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis. In vitro pollen germination was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To quantify pollen tube growth rate and pollen tube width, pollen grains derived from wild-type Columbia-0, single mutant (vln2 or vln5), or vln2 vln5 double mutant plants were germinated for 2 h and 3 to 4 h, respectively, to allow the average lengths of the pollen tubes to reach ∼200 μm. More than 50 individual pollen tubes were selected to determine the growth rate, and more than 200 individual pollen tubes were selected to determine the width at the widest region of the pollen tubes. A minimum of three independent experiments was conducted for each assay. Staining of actin in pollen tubes with Alexa-488 phalloidin was performed according to the methods described by CITATION. The actin cytoskeleton in the pollen tube was observed under a Leica TCS SP5 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a ×100 (1.46 NA HC PLAN) objective. Alexa-488 phalloidin was excited with the 488-nm line of an argon laser with the emission set to 550 to 600 nm. The step size was set to 0.5 μm to collect optical sections. To quantitatively compare the amount of F-actin between Columbia-0 and mutant pollen tubes, all optical sections were acquired under identical conditions. Quantification of actin structures was performed using Image J (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/, version 1.46g), and part of the resulting data were processed using R programming language (http://www.R-project.org, version 2.13.1). To quantify actin structures in the subapical region, a 5 × 8-μm2 region located ∼1 μm from the pollen tube tip was selected. To quantify F-actin levels, the average gray value of the fluorescent phalloidin staining in the selected region was analyzed for more than 30 pollen tubes. Characterization of the orientation of actin filaments in the selected region was performed using ImageJ (version 1.38X) with the “fit ellipse 3c” plugin (Christopher Coulon; www.theGAIAgroup.org) as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Maximally projected images were initially transformed into FFT images. The FFT images were then thresholded at different values and followed by shape analysis by fitting an ellipse to the Fourier spectra in “fit ellipse 3c” in order to calculate the eccentricity. The threshold value was initially set to 100, and the value was increased by one at each step, until 800 black pixels remained. A series of values was generated for each image, and the last 10 to 14 values were selected and averaged to yield the eccentricity value. More than nine pollen tubes were analyzed for each line, and three independent experiments were performed. The extent of actin filament bundling in the selected region was determined by measuring the value of skewness according to published methods (CITATION; CITATION). The z-stack optical sections from the 5 × 8-μm2 area of interest in the subapical region were processed by background subtraction with the rolling ball radius set to 15 pixels and the Gaussian blur radius set to 1.0. A minimum of 24 pollen tubes from each genotype was selected to determine the average skewness of the actin filaments. Quantification of the angles formed between actin cables and the pollen tube growth axis as well as the width of actin cables in the shank of pollen tubes was according to the method described by CITATION. The distribution of transport vesicles in pollen tubes was analyzed in plants expressing Lat52:YFP-RabA4b (CITATION). After the average length reached ∼200 μm, the pollen tubes were observed under an Olympus FV1000MPE multiphoton laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a ×100 objective (numerical aperture of 1.4). Samples were excited under a 488-nm argon laser, and the emission wavelength range was set to 505 to 545 nm. To trace the dynamics of YFP-RabA4b–labeled vesicles, time-lapse, wide-field fluorescence microscopy was performed using an Olympus IX81 inverted microscope equipped with a ×100 UAPON objective (numerical aperture of 1.49). Time-lapse series images were captured every 2 s with a Photometrics Cascade II: 512 EMCCD camera (Major Instruments) driven by Micro-Manager software (www.micro-manager.org). To quantify the distribution pattern of YFP-RabA4b–labeled vesicles in pollen tubes, the average fluorescence intensity of YFP-RabA4b at the apical and subapical regions was divided by that of the shank region to yield a ratio. More than 50 pollen tubes were analyzed. Pollen tubes expressing Lat52:Lifeact-EGFP were subjected to observation with an Olympus BX51 microscope equipped with an Andor Revolution XDh spinning disk confocal system. Only the growing pollen tubes were selected for imaging. Images were acquired using Andor's IQ2 software. GFP was excited using a 488-nm argon laser, and the emission wavelengths were captured from 505 to 545 nm. Time-lapse, z-stack images (step size, 0.5 μm) were taken every 2 s. Rotation of pollen tube images was performed using the IQ2 software package. Other image manipulations, such as generation of montages and projections of z-stack images, were performed using Image J (version 1.46g). Kymographs were generated with the MultipleKymograph plugin in Image J (version 1.46g). To quantify single actin filament dynamics within the apical domes of pollen tubes, parameters such as filament lifetime, maximum filament length, elongation rate, depolymerization rate, and convolutedness were calculated as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Only filaments that could be tracked over four successive frames were considered. To quantify the frequency at which actin filaments were severed at the subapexes of pollen tubes, only actin filaments forming greater than a 60° angle with the growth axis were selected. More than 100 such actin filaments from more than 18 pollen tubes were counted to determine the percentage of actin filaments subjected to severing. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under accession numbers At2g41740 (VLN2) and At5g57320 (VLN5). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. VLN2 and VLN5 Coordinately Regulate Polarized Pollen Tube Growth. Supplemental Figure 2. VLN2GEN-GFP and VLN5GEN-GFP Are Functional. Supplemental Figure 3. Lifeact-EGFP Decorates Distinct Actin Arrays in Arabidopsis Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 4. Actin Filaments Are Less Abundant at the Apex and Are Highly Dynamic within the Apical Dome of Wild-Type Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 5. The Extreme Apex Has Fewer Actin Filaments and Faces the Direction of Growth. Supplemental Figure 6. The Width of Actin Cables Was Decreased and Angles Formed between Actin Cables and The Growth Axis of Pollen Tubes Increased in vln2 vln5 Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 7. The Distribution of Rab4Ab-Labeled Vesicles Is Altered in vln2 vln5 Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Table 1. Primer Sequences Used in This Study. Supplemental Movie 1. Actin Filament Dynamics in the Apical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 2. Actin Filament Dynamics in the Apical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 3. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Medial Section of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 4. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Cortical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 5. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Medial Section of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 6. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Cortical Region of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 7. Actin Dynamic at the Apical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 8. Actin Dynamic at the Apical Region of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 9. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Apical Region of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 10. Dynamics of Single Actin Filaments in the Apical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 11. Dynamic of Single Actin Filaments in the Apical Region of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 12. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Subapical Region of a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 13. Actin Filament Dynamics at the Subapical Region of a vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 14. Dynamic Distribution of YFP-RabA4b-labeled Vesicles in a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 15. Dynamic Distribution of YFP-RabA4b–Labeled Vesicles in vln2 vln5 Pollen Tube. Supplemental References 1. References for the Supplemental Data.
