!~ABS~! Vacuolar sorting receptors (VSRs) are type I integral membrane family proteins that in plant cells are thought to recognize cargo proteins at the late Golgi or trans-Golgi network (TGN) for vacuolar transport via the pre-vacuolar compartment (PVC). However, little is known about VSR cargo proteins in plants. Here we developed and tested an in vivo expression system for the identification of VSR cargos which is based on the premise that the expressed N-terminus of VSRs will be secreted into the culture medium along with their corresponding cargo proteins. Indeed, transgenic Arabidopsis culture cell lines expressing VSR N-terminal binding domains (VSRNTs) were shown to secrete truncated VSRs (BP80NT, AtVSR1NT and AtVSR4NT) with attached cargo molecules into the culture medium. Putative cargo proteins were identified through mass spectrometry. Several identified cargo proteins were confirmed by localization studies and interaction analysis with VSRs. The screening strategy described here should be applicable to all VSRs and will help identify and study cargo proteins for individual VSR proteins. This method should be useful for both cargo identification and protein–protein interaction in vivo.
!~RES~! Since the VSR N-terminus (NT) is responsible for cargo binding while its TMD/CT is responsible for targeting (Cao et al., CITATION), we have hypothesized that over-expression of truncated VSR (VSRNT) in transgenic plant cells would result in secretion of VSRNT proteins together with their specific cargo proteins into the culture medium (Figure 1). To test this hypothesis, we first systematically compared the effects of increasing concentrations of BP80NT-T7 on trafficking of aleurain-GFP to the vacuole in a transient expression system (Figure 2a,b). In Arabidopsis protoplasts, aleurain-GFP trafficked to the central vacuole, forming two protein species at 33 and 28 kDa when detected with a GFP antibody. The 33-kDa species corresponds to the intact protein, and the 28-kDa species is the processed form in the central vacuole, termed the GFP core (Figure 2b). Thus, the amount of the 28-kDa species can be used to measure vacuolar trafficking efficiency. The secGFP (a secreted form of GFP)-expressing protoplasts, served as a positive control (daSilva et al., CITATION). We then examined the dose dependence of cargo secretion, using constant amounts of aleurain-GFP and increasing amounts of BP80NT-T7 DNA. In this secretion assay, the protoplasts were split into equal portions for transfection, and equal amounts of extracted proteins were detected by Western blotting using the cis-Golgi marker ManI (anti-ManI). BP80NT-T7 protein expression increased with increasing amounts of BP80NT-T7 DNA as indicated using T7 antibody in the protoplast fraction. The amount of the 33-kDa processed form in the protoplasts gradually decreased with increasing amounts of BP80NT-T7, and concomitantly the amount of aleurain-GFP secreted into the medium was increased. Interestingly, aleurain-GFP was partially proteolytically processed to a 28-kDa form in the medium, which may be attributable to the presence of extracellular proteases (Matsuoka et al., CITATION; Frigerio et al., CITATION; Kim et al., CITATION). The increase of VSRNT protein in the medium was detected by a VSR antibody (Figure 2b), which further confirmed that the secretion of aleurain-GFP was because of the secretion of BP80NT-T7. The cytoplasmic marker tubulin was not detected using Anti-TUB in the medium even when the film was exposed for a long time, which excludes the possibility that the presence of BP80NT-T7 and aleurain-GFP in the medium was due to leakage from damaged protoplasts. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the cargo proteins can be co-secreted together with VSRNT. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As a next step, we generated a stable Arabidopsis cell culture line expressing three truncated VSR proteins, BP80NT, AtVSR1NT and AtVSR4NT, having a T7 tag at their C-terminus. The expressed BP80NT-T7, AtVSR1NT-T7 and AtVSR4NT-T7 also accumulated in the culture medium of the transgenic PSB-D cells but not in wild type (WT) cells (Figure 3a). In fact, in Arabidopsis WT cells, anti-VSR antibodies only detected the endogenous VSR proteins in the intracellular fraction that were missing from the secreted medium fraction (Figure 3b, single asterisk). In contrast, in transgenic Arabidopsis PSB-D cells expressing the truncated BP80NT, a protein band corresponding to the truncated BP80NT-T7 (Figure 3b, double asterisk) in addition to the presence of the endogenous VSR proteins (Figure 3b, single asterisk), was detected in the intracellular fraction. The secreted form of BP80NT but not the endogenous VSR was detected in the secreted medium fraction (Figure 3b, double asterisk). Similar results were also obtained from transgenic PSB-D cells expressing the truncated AtVSR1NT-T7 or AtVSR4NT-T7. The T7 antibody further proved the detection in which only the truncated form of VSRNT was detected (Figure 3b). Western blotting analysis on intracellular and secreted proteins of both WT and transgenic VSRNT PSB-D cells further indicated that there is no leakage of the cellular components into the secreted fraction and the method of collecting the secreted medium fraction faithfully reflects the integrity of the culture cells without any cell contamination (Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, the BP80NT-T7, AtVSR1NT-T7 and AtVSR4NT-T7 expressed in Arabidopsis PSB-D culture cells are functional proteins that are able to interact specifically against the synthetic VSD peptides but not their mutant forms (Figure S2). Therefore, based on the hypothesis that cargo proteins of individual VSRs will be co-secreted together along with the VSRNT into the medium allows for their detection and identification by mass spectrometry. In the WT cell culture medium, a total of 86 proteins were identified via nano liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (NANO-LC-MS/MS) and Fourier transform (FT)-MS analysis. These proteins are mostly cell wall-related proteins, such as glycoside hydrolyses, esterases, lyases, expansins, lectin domain-containing proteins, leucine-rich repeat domain-containing proteins and enzyme inhibitors (Table S1). In the transgenic cell line medium we could identify the corresponding VSRNT protein (BP80NT, AtVSR1NT, and AtVSR4NT) in all samples. In addition, we identified 17 putative cargo proteins that were uniquely found in the medium of transgenic PSB-D cell lines (Table 1), including three vacuolar proteases (At3 g52500, At5 g67360 and At4 g16190), five glycosyl hydrolases (At4 g34480, At5 g10560, At5 g11720, At5 g45280 and At5 g58090), three oxireductases (At1 g30740, At5 g06720 and At5 g11540), two chitinases (At2 g43570 and At3 g12500), a redox enzyme glutaredoxin (GRX, At5 g20500), a curculin-like (mannose-binding) lectin family protein (At1 g78850), a cysteine protease inhibitor family protein (CPI, At4 g16500) and an unknown protein (At4 g34260). Out of the 17 identified proteins, none of them had been previously described as a VSR-interacting protein, and only four of them (At4 g16190, At5 g10560, At4 g16500 and At5 g11720) were previously reported as vacuolar proteins (Carter et al., CITATION). Among the identified potential cargo proteins, each of the truncated VSR proteins (BP80NT, AtVSR1NT and AtVSR4NT) secreted different kinds of proteins, and yet shared common cargo proteins (Table 1). MW, molecular weight in Da; pI, isoelectric point. ‘Y’ indicates the presence of this protein in the medium of transgenic PSB-D cell lines. The total score and peptide number of mass spectrometry are in parentheses with Fourier transform mass spectrometry results underlined. The VSR-sorted cargo proteins are believed to traffic through PVCs prior to reaching vacuoles in plant cells (Miao et al., CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, PVC localization of the cargo can be confirmed by co-localization with VSR marker proteins. Four putative cargo proteins, including cysteine proteinase (CP, At4 g16190), glycosyl hydrolase family 3 protein (GH3, At5 g10560), GRX and CPI that were well-expressed in Arabidopsis PSB-D protoplasts were further analyzed in the following experiments. As a positive control, aleurain-GFP showed both a punctate pattern co-localizing with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (85.7 ± 1.0%) and a diffuse pattern in the vacuole (Figure 4a). Similarly, CP-GFP and GRX-GFP gave rise to punctate fluorescence within the cytoplasm, which co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (83.9 ± 1.9 and 83.3 ± 0.9%, respectively), and a diffuse pattern in the vacuole after a 12 h incubation (Figure 4b,c). GH3-GFP and CPI-GFP showed a slight ER pattern and co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 as punctate PVC signals after a 12 h incubation (86.6 ± 0.8 and 82.3 ± 1.0%, respectively). Finally, GH3-GFP and CPI-GFP also showed a diffuse fluorescence pattern in the vacuole after incubation for 18 and 24 h, indicating their accumulation in the vacuole (Figure 4d,e). These cargo proteins partially co-localized with the cis-Golgi ManI-mRFP marker or the TGN marker mRFP-SYP61 (Figure S3), probably owing to saturation of the sorting system in the cis-Golgi or TGN, thus delaying the transport of these over-expressed cargoes through these organelles. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the trafficking of these putative cargo proteins, we also used AtRabF2b (Ara7) as a tool to study the cargo proteins. In Arabidopsis PSB-D protoplasts, when mRFP-Ara7 was co-expressed with aleurain-GFP, the mRFP-Ara7 labelled structures co-localized with the aleurain-GFP-positive PVCs (Figure S4a). Ara7(Q69L), which promotes the GTP-bound state (Kotzer et al., CITATION), was also used because its expression induces PVC enlargement derived from homotypic PVC fusion (Jia et al., CITATION). When mRFP-Ara7(Q69L) was co-expressed with aleurain-GFP, the bright, punctate, aleurain-containing PVCs assumed a ring-like structure and the soluble marker aleurain-GFP accumulated in the PVC lumen (Figure S4b). Therefore, the PVC-localized cargo proteins should have the same characteristics when co-expressed with Ara7(Q69L). Indeed, when the putative cargo proteins CP-GFP, GH3-GFP, CPI-GFP and GRX-GFP were co-expressed together with the mRFP-Ara7(Q69L) in Arabidopsis PSB-D protoplasts, the signals for the soluble GFP form were found mainly inside the vacuolated PVCs, with mRFP-Ara7(Q69L) signals being found on their limiting membrane (Figure S4c–f). These results confirm that GFP-tagged putative cargo proteins are targeted to the lytic vacuole via the PVCs. If the GFP-tagged cargo proteins were to transport into the vacuole, the full-length precursor proteins would be cleaved into their mature form and a GFP core (Kim et al., CITATION; Zouhar et al., CITATION; Lee et al., CITATION). To test this possibility and find out the nature of the protein of these identified cargos, Arabidopsis PSB-D protoplasts were transformed with individual cargo proteins (CP-GFP, GH3-GFP, CPI-GFP and GRX-GFP), followed by isolation of soluble proteins from intracellular fraction and subsequent Western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibodies. Indeed, as shown in Figure 5, in all tested samples, a large amount of the 28-kDa processed GFP core was detected, probably owing to processing of the cargo proteins from the precursor form into the mature form during vacuole trafficking. These results point to the vacuole trafficking of these cargo proteins. [[FIGURE]] To explore the interaction specificity between identified cargo proteins and VSRs, in vitro co-immunoprecipitation studies were further carried out. The T7-tagged versions of BP80NT, AtVSR1NT and AtVSR4NT were transiently expressed together with GFP-tagged cargo proteins in protoplasts from PSB-D suspension cells. Subsequently, protein extracts from transformed protoplasts were subjected to immunoprecipitation using the GFP-Trap, which is based on recombinant single domain antibody fragments (VHHs) coupled to agarose beads. secGFP was used as a negative control for the co-immunoprecipitation. The immunoprecipitates were analyzed by Western blotting using anti-GFP or anti-T7 antibodies. As shown in Figure 6(a–c), secGFP did not interact with BP80NT-T7, AtVSR1NT-T7 or AtVSR4NT-T7 because there was no protein band detected in the immunoprecipitates using T7 antibodies, whereas aleurain-GFP was found to interact with BP80NT-T7, AtVSR1NT-T7 and AtVSR4NT-T7. In addition, BP80NT-T7 was detected in the immune complexes when co-transformed with CP-GFP or CPI-GFP individually but with low signal intensity with GH3-GFP and GRX-GFP. These results indicate that BP80 may interact with nearly all identified cargo proteins, although with different binding affinities. In contrast, AtVSR1NT-T7 was not detected in the immunoprecipitates when co-expressed with GH3-GFP or CPI-GFP, indicating no interaction between AtVSR1 and these two cargoes. Further quantification of the corresponding signal intensities (Figure 6d) indicated that GRX-GFP has a high binding affinity with AtVSR1NT-T7, reaching 98.3% binding affinity compared with that of CP-GFP (100%). Moreover, AtVSR4NT-T7 showed relatively low intensity in immunoprecipitates in protoplasts transformed with GH3-GFP or GRX-GFP, with 16.3 and 61.1% binding affinity, respectively. Taken together, these data point to specific interaction between various cargo proteins and different VSRs.z [[FIGURE]] Proteins destined for vacuoles usually contain VSDs that are recognized by VSRs. Basically, three different types of VSDs have been studied: (i) sequence-specific VSDs (ssVSD, NTPP) (Matsuoka and Nakamura, CITATION; Frigerio et al., CITATION; Shimada et al., CITATION), (ii) non-sequence-specific C-terminal VSDs (ctVSD, CTPP), and (iii) large internal stretches of polypeptide (physical structure VSD) in certain storage proteins for PSV sorting (Saalbach et al., CITATION; Vonschaewen and Chrispeels, CITATION). The VSDs of the putative cargo proteins were further investigated by software analysis and vacuolar targeting analysis. The putative VSDs in these 17 identified cargoes were analyzed using meme (Bailey and Elkan, CITATION) and are shown in Table 2. One protein (CP) contains a NPIR motif and 10 other proteins have NPIR variants following the predicted signal peptide cleavage site, in the middle or at the C-terminus. In addition, several other proteins, including subtilase (At5 g67360), chitinase (At3 g12500) and two glycosyl hydrolase family 17 proteins (At4 g34480 and At5 g58090), were identified to contain a highly hydrophobic C-terminal extension, probably representing ctVSD for vacuole transport in Arabidopsis. However, two proteins (GRX and At3 g52500) contain no known VSDs. The putative VSDs are underlined. ssVSD, sequence-specific VSD; ctVSD, non-sequence-specific C-terminal VSD. We next performed a localization study to confirm the predicted VSDs of CP (Figure 7a), CPI (Figure 7b) and GH3 (Figure 7c) using GFP fusions with predicted VSDs and alanine mutants (VSDM) in Arabidopsis PSB-D protoplasts. Upon transient co-expression, CP-VSD-GFP (Figure 7e), CPI-VSD-GFP (Figure 7f) and GFP-GH3-VSD (Figure 7g) co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (84.0 ± 2.0, 83.3 ± 1.4 and 79.5 ± 0.8%, respectively), and transported into the vacuole after incubation for 12 or 24 h. The punctate dots of CP-VSD-GFP (Figure S5a,b), CPI-VSD-GFP (Figure S5c,d) and GFP-GH3-VSD (Figure S5e,f) were partially co-localized with the cis-Golgi marker ManI-mRFP or the TGN marker mRFP-SPY61. However, when their VSDs were subjected to alanine mutation (VSDM), all the resulting mutant fusions CP-VSDM-GFP, CPI-VSDM-GFP and GFP-GH3-VSDM were found to be separated from the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2, and did not reach the vacuole even after incubation for 24 h (Figure S6). In contract, the punctate dots of CP-VSDM-GFP (Figure S7a,b) and CPI-VSDM-GFP (Figure S7c,d) were co-localized with the cis-Golgi marker ManI-mRFP but separated from the TGN marker mRFP-SPY61. No co-localization was observed between GFP-GH3-VSDM and the cis-Golgi marker ManI-mRFP or TGN marker mRFP-SPY61 (Figure S7e,f). [[FIGURE]] The GRX does not contain classically known ssVSD and ctVSD. To study its putative VSD-containing region, we fused its first 24 amino acids, containing signal peptide, with GFP (Figure 7d). The resulting GRX-VSD-GFP showed both punctate dots and vacuole patterns (Figure 7h), whereas the punctate dots of GRX-VSD-GFP were found to be co-localized with the PVC marker mRFP-AtVSR2 (85.4 ± 3.3%), but separated from the cis-Golgi marker ManI-mRFP and occasionally co-localized with TGN marker mRFP-SPY61 (11.5 ± 1.1%; Figure S5g,h). These results indicated that the first 24 amino acids of GRX contain sufficient information for its PVC-vacuole targeting. Indeed, when its hydrophobic amino acid sequence VKKTI was substituted by alanine (Figure S6d) the resulting GRX-VSDM-GFP fusion was found to be retained in the ER when co-expressed with mRFP-AtVSR2 (Figure S6 h), ManI-mRFP (Figure S7 g) or mRFP-SPY61 (Figure S7 h). Thus, we have defined the VKKTI sequence as being a VSD for GRX. Cargo proteins are sorted into vacuoles because their VSDs are recognized by VSRs. However, when a VSD is mutated, the cargo will be secreted into the culture medium (Koide et al., CITATION; Castelli and Vitale, CITATION; Claude et al., CITATION; Maruyama et al., CITATION). We thus next test if VSD mutation on the identified cargos will result in their secretion upon their expression. Arabidopsis protoplasts were first transformed with various GFP fusions with cargo VSDs or their alanine mutants, followed by protein isolation from intracellular (I) and extracellular medium (or secretion, S) for subsequent Western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibodies. As shown in Figure 8(a), 18 h after transformation, CP-VSD-GFP, GFP-GH3-VSD, CPI-VSD-GFP and GRX-VSD-GFP were detected as two protein bands of 31 and 28 kDa in the intracellular fraction (I) with no detectable signal in the extracellular medium (S). The 31-kDa band corresponds to the intact GFP fusion protein whereas the 28-kDa band is the processed GFP core form in the central vacuole. In contrast, identical experiments using their VSD alanine mutants (CP-VSDM-GFP, GFP-GH3-VSDM, CPI-VSDM-GFP and GRX-VSDM-GFP) resulted in the detection of the 31-kDa protein band in the extracellular medium (S), together with little GFP core signal (Figure 8a). The amount of secreted protein was highest for GRX-VSDM-GFP (44.2%) and lowest for GFP-GH3-VSDM (25.6%, Figure 8b). Taken together, these results indicate that VSD alanine mutants caused secretion of these cargo proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Construction of truncated BP80 (BP80NT-T7) and Arabidopsis AtVSR4 (AtVSR4NT-T7) has been described previously (Suen et al., CITATION). The truncated Arabidopsis AtVSR1 (AtVSR1NT-T7) were generated similarly in PBI221 and PBI121. All fluorescent fusion constructs used for transient expression in protoplasts were PCR amplified and cloned into the pre-made GFP backbone in pBI221. The primers used to generate these constructs are listed in Table S2. All constructs were confirmed by restriction mapping and DNA sequencing. Transient expression using Arabidopsis protoplasts has been described previously (Miao and Jiang, CITATION). Transformation and generation of Arabidopsis PSB-D cells have also been described (Wang et al., CITATION; Cai et al., CITATION). Confocal images were collected at specific time points after transformation using an Olympus FV1000 system (http://www.olympusconfocal.com/). For each experiment, more than 50 individual cells were observed for imaging that represented >80% of the cells showing similar expression levels and patterns. Images collected from 10 individual cells were used for data processing and analysis. Images were processed using adobe photoshop software (http://www.adobe.com/) as previously described (Jiang and Rogers, CITATION). Secretion assay was performed as described previously (Suen et al., CITATION). Intracellular and medium proteins were prepared from 7-day-old WT or transgenic Arabidopsis cells expressing VSRNT, followed by protein separation via SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis using either VSR or other control antibodies as indicated. The immunoblots were quantified by measuring the intensity of the protein bands with imagej software. Protein extractions from protoplasts and culture medium were performed as described previously with some modification (Kim et al., CITATION; Shen et al., CITATION). Proteins in protoplasts were extracted with the extraction buffer [250 mm 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-HCl, pH 7.4, 750 mm NaCl, 5 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), and 25 μg ml−1 leupeptin) by sonication for 5 sec. The supernatant was recovered for analysis after centrifugation at 25 000 g at 4°C for 10 min. To prepare proteins from the culture medium, cold trichloroacetic acid (TCA) (100 μl) was added to the medium (1 ml) in the presence of BSA as a carrier, and protein aggregates were precipitated by centrifugation at 25 000 g at 4°C for 30 min. Protein aggregates were washed twice with acetone, air-dried and dissolved in an SDS-PAGE sample loading buffer. Synthetic peptides containing wild type (WT) VSDs or their mutated form of vacuolar proteins were synthesized by Genescript. Construction of peptide sepharose and pull-down assay from cell culture medium was done as before (Suen et al., CITATION). To perform pull-down experiments from transient expressed protoplasts, the membrane fraction was collected as previously described (Gao et al., CITATION) and resuspended in CHAPS buffer (Paris et al., CITATION) containing 1% 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl) dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS). The supernatant was mixed with sepharose conjugated with peptides at 4°C overnight. After washing with CHAPS buffer, the proteins in sepharose were subject to SDS-PAGE and Western blot by specific antibodies. To perform co-immunoprecipitation experiments from transient expressed protoplasts, the soluble fractions were prepared in co-immunoprecipitation buffer, containing 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.1, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 1000 μm CaCl2 and 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100, and were then incubated with GFP-Trap agarose beads (ChromoTek, http://www.chromotek.com/) overnight at 4°C in a top-to-end rotator. After incubation, the beads were washed with co-immunoprecipitation buffer and then eluted by boiling in SDS sample buffer. Secreted proteins present in the culture medium were collected from day-4 culture media of WT and transgenic PSB-D, and were then precipitated by methanol/chloroform (Wessel and Flugge, CITATION). The protein pellet was then cold-dried, rehydrated in 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate containing sequencing grade modified trypsin (Promega, http://www.promega.com/). After tryptic digestion overnight at 28°C, peptides were finally redissolved in 2% acetonitrile/0.05% trifluoroacetic acid for NANO-LC-MS/MS or 0.1% formaic acid for FT-MS. The digested peptide mixture was loaded to PepMap100 C18 nano column of UltiMate 3000 Intelligent LC system (Dionex, http://www.dionex.com/) in order to perform NANO-LC. Collected samples were further analyzed using a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight/time-of-flight (TOF/TOF) analyzer (ABI4700 Proteomics Analyzer; Applied Biosystems, http://www.invitrogen.com). The search software mascot (Matrix Science, http://www.matrixscience.com/) was used to manually search against the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. Only peptides achieving a significant mascot ion score above 30 and containing a sequence tag of at least three consecutive amino acids were accepted. At least three independent repeats were performed, and for each of the repeats, the digested peptides are injected twice. Analyses were performed using an electrospray ionization source (Apex ultra Hybrid Qq-FTMS; Bruker Daltonics, http://www.bruker.com/) coupled to a liquid chromatography (Ultimate 3000; Dionex). The system was controlled with the software package hystar (v.3.4 build 8; Bruker Daltonics). Sample extract was loaded onto PepMap100 C18 nano column and was eluted when the spectra were acquired in a Fourier transformed full scan model. The MS/MS raw spectral data were converted to mgf files using dataanalysis 4.0 SP1 (Bruker Daltonics) and analyzed by means of biotools 3.1 (Bruker Daltonics). mascot was used to manually search against the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. Only peptides achieving a significant mascot ion score above 30 and containing a sequence tag of at least three consecutive amino acids were accepted. At least three independent repeats were performed, and for each of the repeats the digested peptides are injected twice. Secreted proteins identified in the Arabidopsis WT PSB-D were pooled together. Only those proteins identified in the transgenic PSB-D that are found in at least two of the independent repeated mass spectrometry experiments are accepted as secreted proteins of the transgenic PSB-D cells. By comparing transgenic cell protein with the WT, unique proteins that found only in the transgenic Arabidopsis PSB-D cells were identified. Only those unique proteins that have a mascot ion score above 50, with at least two peptides, and which contain a signal peptide (required for default entry into the ER) but no TMD were accepted as potential cargo proteins. Signal peptide was predicted by signalp v3.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/; Nielsen et al., CITATION). The transmembrane domain was predicted by tmhmm v2.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/tmhmm-2.0/). Protein masses and isoelectric points were determined with the TAIR bulk protein search tool (http://www.arabidopsis.org/tools/bulk/protein/index.jsp). To identify the putative sequence-specific vacuolar sorting determinants (ssVSDs), the program meme (Bailey and Elkan, CITATION) was performed using the pattern discovery approach based upon other known ssVSDs from sporamin (Matsuoka and Nakamura, CITATION), aleurain (Holwerda et al., CITATION), PT20 (Koide et al., CITATION), ricin (Frigerio et al., CITATION) and 2S albumin (Matsuoka and Neuhaus, CITATION). The hydrophobicity profile was determined with the emboss package (http://emboss.sourceforge.net/). Sequence data in this article are in the GenBank under the following accession numbers: U79958 (BP80), O22925 (AtVSR2), AF126550 (ManI), NM_102617 (SYP61), U31094 (aleurain), AY063095 (AtRabF2b).
