!~ABS~! Vacuolar invertases (VIs) are highly expressed in young tissues and organs. They may have a substantial regulatory influence on whole-plant metabolism as well as on photosynthetic efficiency. Therefore, they are emerging as potentially interesting biotechnological targets to increase plant biomass production, especially under stress. On the one hand, VIs are well known as soluble and extractable proteins. On the other hand, they contain complex N-terminal propeptide (NTPP) regions with a basic region (BR) and a transmembrane domain (TMD). Here we analyzed in depth the Arabidopsis thaliana VI2 (AtVI2) NTPP by mutagenesis. It was found that correct sorting to the lytic vacuole (LV) depends on the presence of intact dileucine (SSDALLPIS), BR (RRRR) and TMD motifs. AtVI2 remains inserted into membranes on its way to the LV, and the classical sorting pathway (endoplasmic reticulum→Golgi→LV) is followed. However, our data suggest that VIs might follow an alternative, adaptor protein 3 (AP3)-dependent route as well. Membrane-anchored transport and a direct recognition of the dileucine motif in the NTPP of VIs might have evolved as a simple and more efficient sorting mechanism as compared with the vacuolar sorting receptor 1/binding protein of 80 kDa (VSR1/BP80)-dependent sorting mechanism followed by those proteins that travel to the vacuole as soluble proteins.
!~RES~! VIs typically contain long, complex NTPPs containing a dileucine motif, an YXXΦ (X is any amino acid, Φ is a hydrophobic residue) motif, a BR and a TMD (Table 1). The subcellular localizations of full-length (AtVI2) and N-terminal (NAtVI2) GFP fusion proteins were determined in Arabidopsis protoplasts (18 h post-transformation). Both fusion proteins reached the CV (Table 2), confirming that the NAtVI2 is sufficient for vacuolar targeting (Fig. 1A). GFP-only constructs failed to reach the CV, but localized in the cytosol (not shown). Similarly, AtVI1 and NAtVI1 also reached the CV, but at an earlier time point (at 15 h post-transformation, Fig. 1B). After 15 h, most of the NAtVI2 had not yet reached the CV, and localized in punctate structures (Fig. 1C). In all cases, fluorescence could only be detected in the vacuolar lumen, and not at the tonoplast.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] CITATION investigated protein trafficking to LVs and PSVs by using distinct vacuolar GFP fusion proteins. In their work, the C-terminal VSD of tobacco chitinase A (GFP–Chi) was used as a PSV marker, and the NTPP of barley aleurain (Aleu–GFP) was used as an LV marker. Here, the co-expression of the NAtVI2–red fluorescent protein (RFP) fusion protein and Aleu–GFP showed partial co-localization in some punctate structures (Supplementary Fig. S1A, arrows). Such co-localization was not observed with GFP–Chi (Supplementary Fig. S1B). Again, no specific higher fluorescence densities were detected at the tonoplast (Supplementary Fig. S1), indicating immediate processing of the NAtVI2–mRFP fusion protein in the acidic environment of the LVs. To determine the path followed by the NAtVI2–GFP fusion protein, time course localization experiments (12, 15 and 18 h post-transformation) were performed (Figs 2, 3) with RFP fusion proteins as markers for the ER (p24–RFP) and Golgi apparatus (KAM1ΔC–mRFP), respectively. At 12 h post-transformation, most of the NAtVI2 fusion protein appeared in the ER network, as confirmed by co-localization with p24–RFP (Fig. 2A). In the vicinity of the ER network, small punctate structures with membrane-localized fluorescence were observed (Fig. 2A, GFP panel indent). At 15 h post-transformation, the fusion protein was detected in the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 2B) as well as in the membranes of associated punctate structures (Fig. 2B2). As demonstrated before, most of the NAtVI2 fusion protein was localized in the CV (Fig. 1) at 18 h post-transformation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In some of the protoplasts at 18 h post-transformation, NAtVI2–GFP was also detected in the membranes of punctate structures with variable size (Fig. 3A). Although the exact nature of all these above-mentioned punctate structures remains unclear and requires further investigations, the major point is that the fluorescence is clearly detected in the membranes of these structures, visualizing the membrane-anchored transport of the GFP fusion protein. It can be speculated that some of the larger structures represent PVCs, late PVCs or fused PVCs, also termed ‘small vacuoles’, in accordance with the previously determined presence of AtVI2 in PVCs (CITATION). Wortmannin is a well-known stimulator of the formation of such ‘small vacuoles’ (CITATION). Wortmannin treatment of protoplasts transformed with NAtVI2–GFP showed the presence of punctate structures with fluorescence in their membranes (Fig. 3B). In contrast, such clear membrane fluorescence was not observed in wortmannin-treated protoplasts transformed with an Aleu–GFP construct (Fig. 3C). Overall, it can be concluded that AtVI2 remains intact and inserted into membranes via the TMD in its N-terminus (Tables 1, 2), until it reaches the tonoplast. To examine whether NAtVI2 and aleurain follow an identical sorting pathway, NAtVI2–GFP and Aleu–GFP were transformed into protoplasts isolated from two vsr1/bp80 lines (SALK_123661 and SALK_150894) and wild type (WT) plants, respectively. While the NAtVI2 fusion protein was correctly targeted to the CV both in vsr1/bp80 (Fig. 4A) and in WT (Fig. 1A) protoplasts, Aleu–GFP did not reach the CV in vsr1/bp80 protoplasts (Fig. 4B) while in WT protoplasts the fluorescence was still detected there (Fig. 3C). However, it should be noted that only very few vsr1/bp80 protoplasts showed fluorescence of Aleu–GFP, suggesting that the majority of the protoplasts may have exported their fusion protein into the medium. Taken together with the wortmannin experiments (Fig. 3), these observations suggest that both AtVI2 and aleurain are targeted to the LV through the same classic pathway, but aleurain (a typical soluble protein lacking a TMD) trafficking depends on VSR1/BP80 while AtVI2 (a protein containing one functional TMD) trafficking does not (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Further examination was performed on the possibility that AtVI2 could also follow an alternative, AP3-dependent pathway (CITATION). It is known that the AP3µ subunit recognizes an YXXΦ motif, while the AP3β subunit recognizes a dileucine motif in mammals and in yeast (CITATION). Similar AP3 subunits have been found in plants (CITATION, CITATION). Thus, NAtVI2 was transformed into protoplasts isolated from an ap3µ line (SALK_064486 and SALK_127431, CITATION), an ap3β line (pat2-1 and pat2-2, CITATION) and from WT plants. Aleu–GFP was used as a control. As expected, Aleu–GFP was correctly sorted into the CV in the mutant (Fig. 6) and WT (Fig. 3C) protoplasts, demonstrating that it travels through the classical, AP3-independent pathway. Intriguingly, NAtVI2 fusion proteins showed a variable behavior. NAtVI2 was correctly sorted to the CV in both WT (Fig. 1) and ap3µ protoplasts (Fig. 6A). However, in ap3β protoplasts, it was expressed in punctate structures (40%), in the CV (40%) or showed an apparent cytosolic localization (20%) (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As type II transmembrane proteins, VIs are believed to take the Nin/Cout orientation (CITATION. CITATION. CITATION), as predicted by the TMpred program (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html). To examine which NTPP amino acids are involved in sorting to the CV, we designed an extended series (>40) of mutants in NAtVI2 by site-directed mutagenesis (Table 2), and recorded their localization at 18 h post-transformation. In each case, 80 protoplasts were examined. As expected, the partial loss of the TMD resulted in a cytosolic localization (NAtVI2m28, Table 2). Deletion of the first 25 amino acids retained the TMD, and, as expected, led to localization in the ER (NAtVI2m1, Table 2). This 1–25 amino acid region was further explored by an array of specific deletion mutants as listed in Table 2. Deletions in the N-terminal 3SSDALLPIS11 region (NAtVI2m3–NAtVI2m12, Table 2) greatly affected protein sorting (Fig. 7A–E). Single deletions of D5, I10 and S11 and removal of the dileucine motif L7L8 and the diserine motif S3S4 blocked the protein in the ER network (Table 2, Fig. 7A–E). Deletion of only one L or S in the dileucine and diserine motif resulted in partial obstruction, as did changing P9 into an alanine (Table 2). Importantly, deletion of A5 and A12 did not affect sorting to the CV (Table 2). The correct sorting of the NAtVI2m7 deletion mutant (SSDLLPIS) suggests that the presence of SSD and LLP motifs is more important than their exact location relative to each other. In conclusion, the explored 3SSDALLPIS11 sequence contains features that partially resemble the well-known DXXLL dileucine-based sorting signals, a conserved sequence derived from protein sorting studies in mammals and yeast (CITATION), in which the requirement for the D and LL were found to be strict, and the presence of S was not essential. Of particular importance, deletion of a YXXΦ like-motif (YTRL, Table 2), which was first considered to be crucial for sorting to the vacuole (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), did not lead to disrupted sorting of NAtVI2 (NAtVI2m17, Fig. 7F).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A chain of positively charged amino acids termed the BR, immediately preceding the TMD, is needed for correct delivery of alkaline phosphatase to the yeast vacuole (CITATION). A similar BR (PRRRRP) is observed in the NTPP of AtVI2 (Table 2). Deletion of all four arginines (NAtVI2m21, Table 2) led to accumulation of fusion proteins in the ER in the majority (>80%) of protoplasts (Fig. 8A, left panel). Deletion of two arginines (NAtVI2m22) led to a delay in protein sorting, with fluorescence present in punctate structures in approximately 50% of the protoplasts (Fig. 8B, left panel). Mutagenesis of two arginines to alanines (NAtVI2m23) resulted in partial ER localization (Fig. 8C). Similar effects were found when P36, P41 or both were mutated into alanine (NAtVI2m24–NAtVI2m26, Fig. 8D–F). Mutation of both prolines (NAtVI2m26) showed an ER localization in the majority (>80%) of the protoplasts (Fig. 8F, left panel), while others showed a correct vacuolar localization (Fig. 8F, right panel). It can be concluded that at least two arginines are needed for sorting to the vacuole, and the presence of two neighboring prolines seems to contribute to the sorting efficiency.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The motifs NDEG, TITS, RARL and LWKL downstream of the TMD (NAtVI2m32, NAtVI2m34, NAtVI2m35, NAtVI2m40, Table 2) were also found to be involved in vacuolar sorting. Deletion of these motifs partially slowed down the delivery of proteins to the CV, with about 40% of the protoplasts showing fluorescence in the ER (Supplementary Fig. S2A). Other amino acid regions have been investigated as well (Table 2), but it was found that they are not involved in the sorting process (Table 2). However, one noticeable exception is the intriguing glutamate stretch (13REEEP17 motif) upstream of the TMD. Two extra glutamate residues were inserted in this motif (REEEEEP, NAtVI2m15, Table 2), resulting in an apparent delay of delivering punctate structures to the CV (Table 2, Supplementary Fig. S2B). However, it cannot be excluded that this result could arise from altered protein stability, and this requires further investigations.
!~MM~! For transient expression experiments, Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in soil in 12 h/12 h growth conditions (75 µmol s−1 m−2), 21°C and 50–60% humidity. Knock-out seeds of vsr1/bp80 (At3g52850, SALK_123661 and SALK_150894) and ap3µ (SALK_064486, SALK_127431) were acquired from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center. Knock-out seeds of ap3β (pat2-1 and pat2-2) were kindly donated by Dr. J. Friml. Total RNA was extracted from a maximum of 100 mg of 30-day-old Arabidopsis leaves by using an Rneasy Plant Minikit (Qiagen). Reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) was carried out according to the Access RT-PCR System kit (Promega). Full-length (AtVI1, AtVI2) and NTPP (NAtVI1, NAtVI2) versions were subsequently ligated in-frame with the GFP tag into the expression vector HBT35S::GFP::NOSter (CITATION). NAtVI1 consists of 103 amino acids (MASTE … NTILS), and NAtVI2 consists of 118 amino acids (MASSD … NSMLS). Similarly, NAtVI2–mRFP was cloned into vector pBI221 (donated by Professor Ikuko Hara-Nishimura). The constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts as described (CITATION). The protoplasts were examined after different incubation times in the dark. p24–RFP was used as an ER marker (kindly donated by Professor Peter Pimple), Kam1ΔC–mRFP was used as a Golgi marker (kindly donated by Professor Ikuko Hara-Nishimura), and Aleu–GFP and GFP–Chi are used as markers of LVs and PSVs (kindly donated by Dr. Gian Pietro Di Sansebastiano). PVC markers were not used since CITATION already convincingly demonstrated the presence of AtVI2 in isolated PVC membranes. GFP images of transformed protoplasts were captured by confocal microscopy (Olympus). NAtVI2 constructs served as template for two oligonucleotide primers containing the desired mutation (see Table 2). Mutations were generated as described (CITATION).
