!~ABS~! p97/CDC48 is a major AAA-ATPase that acts in many cellular events such as ubiquitin-dependent degradation and membrane fusion. Its specificity depends on a set of adaptor proteins, most of them containing the ubiquitin regulatory X (UBX) domain. Using a differential hybridization system, we isolated a UBX-containing protein that is expressed during the early phase of male gametophyte development in the crop Brassica napus and isolated and characterized its closest Arabidopsis thaliana homolog, AtPUX7. The AtPUX7 gene is expressed broadly in both the sporophyte and gametophyte due to regulation inferred by its first intron. The subcellular localization of AtPUX7 was assigned mainly to the nucleus in both the sporophyte and in pollen, mirroring the AAA-ATPase AtCDC48A localization. Furthermore, AtPUX7 interacts specifically with AtCDC48A in yeast as well as in planta in the nucleus. This interaction was mediated through the AtPUX7 UBX domain, which is located at the protein C-terminus, while an N-terminal UBA domain mediated its interaction with ubiquitin. Consistent with those results, a yeast-three hybrid analysis showed that AtPUX7 can act as a bridge between AtCDC48A and ubiquitin, suggesting a role in targeted protein degradation. It is likely that AtPUX7 acts redundantly with other members of the Arabidopsis PUX family because a null Atpux7-1 mutant does not display obvious developmental defects.
!~RES~! We previously reported a differential hybridization strategy to isolate cDNAs expressed during early male gametophyte development in B. napus (CITATION). One of the isolated clones, M32 allowed the detection of a 1.4kb mRNA. The early expression of this cDNA during B. napus male gametophyte development was confirmed by RNA blot analysis on mRNA extracted from all stages of male gametophyte development (CITATIONA). M32 expression was found to be highly specific to the tetrad and microspore stages and could not be detected in mRNA extracted from any other tested tissues, including plantlets (i.e. sporophytic tissues). The isolated full-length M32 cDNA contains a 1158 base open reading frame, encoding a putative 386 amino acid (AA) protein (deposited in GenBank under the accession number JX566882). Sequence analyses revealed three conserved protein domains: an N-terminal UBA-like domain, a UAS domain and a C-terminal UBX domain (InterPro accession numbers IPR009060, IPR006577 and IPR001012, respectively). Because this structure is similar to that of human UBXD7 and UBXN-3 (CITATION), we named the gene encoding this protein BnUBX1. To analyse the pattern of BnUBX1 expression in planta, an 819bp BnUBX1 genomic DNA fragment, including 520bp of sequence upstream of the 5′ UTR, 84bp of 5′ UTR and 215bp of coding sequence, was fused to the uidA coding sequence and expressed in the related Brassicaceae A. thaliana. Transgenic plants of the related Brassicaceae A. thaliana were obtained for this construct and the expression pattern of the reporter gene was studied: as for the BnUBX1 mRNA expression in B. napus, no GUS expression could be detected during the sporophytic phase, and a strong expression was observed in the early male gametophyte (CITATIONB, C). In A. thaliana lines harbouring a single-locus-copy of the BnUBX1-uidA transgene in the hemizygous state, about 50% of the pollen grains were GUS-positive, whereas GUS was not detected in the remaining 50%, confirming the gametophytic expression driven by the BnUBX1 promoter (data not shown). Taken together, these expression data indicate that the 604bp B. napus promoter is sufficient to drive the highly specific gametophytic expression of BnUBX1 in A. thaliana, and suggest that the cis-elements contained in this region also drive the gametophytic expression profile in the native B. napus. In order to gain insight into BnUBX1 function, we looked for putative orthologs in A. thaliana. To this end, we blasted the BnUBX1 protein sequence against the translated Arabidopsis genomic DNA sequences and isolated several genes encoding putative UBX proteins. The three closest homologs were found to encode intron-less pseudogenes as suggested by the presence of stop codons and/or frameshifts within their coding sequences (Sup. CITATION). Indeed, analysis of the closest related At4g14250 gene suggested that it encoded two tandemly arranged pseudogenes. As such, the gene annotation was split into two intron-less pseudogenes, At4g14245 and At4g14250, in the TAIR database (CITATION). Details on these pseudogenes as well as on the related pseudogene At1g59550 will be reported elsewhere. Apart from these loci, EST analyses supported the expression of a closely related protein, encoded by At1g14570, which is homologous to BnUBX1 throughout its sequence (Identities=140/303 (46%), Positives=192/303 (63%), Gaps=23/303 (7%)) (CITATIONA). In order to gain insight into BnUBX1 function, we looked for putative orthologs in A. thaliana. To this end, we blasted the BnUBX1 protein sequence against the translated Arabidopsis genomic DNA sequences and isolated several genes encoding putative UBX proteins. The three closest homologs were found to encode intron-less pseudogenes as suggested by the presence of stop codons and/or frameshifts within their coding sequences (Sup. Figs. 1 and 2). Indeed, analysis of the closest related At4g14250 gene suggested that it encoded two tandemly arranged pseudogenes. As such, the gene annotation was split into two intron-less pseudogenes, At4g14245 and At4g14250, in the TAIR database (CITATION). Details on these pseudogenes as well as on the related pseudogene At1g59550 will be reported elsewhere. Apart from these loci, EST analyses supported the expression of a closely related protein, encoded by At1g14570, which is homologous to BnUBX1 throughout its sequence (Identities=140/303 (46%), Positives=192/303 (63%), Gaps=23/303 (7%)) (CITATIONA). Analysis of the deduced 468-amino acid sequence of the NP_973827 protein encoded by At1g14570 indicated that the UBA-like domain (AA 6–52), the UAS domain (AA 170–293) and the UBX domain (AA 387–466) also present in BnUBX1 were conserved, and revealed an additional ubiquitin interacting motif (UIM), spanning AA 328–347. In line with previous reports on plant UBX domain containing proteins (CITATION), the NP_973827 protein was named PUX7 (for plant UBX domain-containing protein 7). With its additional UIM domain, AtPUX7 presents the same overall organization as the mammalian protein UBXD7 (CITATION) (CITATIONB). To characterize the expression pattern of AtPUX7, RT-PCR was carried out on mRNA extracted from different A. thaliana organs (CITATIONA). AtPUX7 was found ubiquitously expressed in sporophytic tissues. Moreover, data collected from microarrays on different stages of male gametophyte development (CITATION) showed that AtPUX7 also was expressed throughout male gametophyte development (CITATIONB). To further characterize AtPUX7 protein expression, a 1.2kb AtPUX7 promoter sequence was amplified, fused to the uidA reporter gene and expressed in A. thaliana. In contrast to ubiquitous expression of AtPUX7 mRNA, the reporter protein expression was detected uniquely in early gametophyte development (CITATIONC), whereas a promoterless control construct showed no GUS staining in the anther. Enhancing introns that lay within 1kb of the transcription start site have been shown to increase gene transcription (CITATION) and can affect the expression pattern of the gene (CITATION). AtPUX7 contains a large first intron located 102bp downstream of the transcription start site, thus, we hypothesised that AtPUX7 expression might be influenced by intron mediated enhancement (IME). To test this possibility, we used the IMeter web-based software (http://korflab.ucdavis.edu/cgi-bin/web-imeter.pl), which predicts the ability of an intron to enhance expression (CITATION), to analyse AtPUX7. A high IMeter score (32.289) was obtained for the 554bp AtPUX7 first intron, suggesting that AtPUX7 expression could be influenced by IME. As such, a new GUS reporter construct was obtained that contained 1168bp of AtPUX7 promoter sequence and 752bp of gene sequence, included the first intron and the second exon that was translationally fused to the GUS coding sequence. An Arabidopsis plant expressing this construct displayed strong ubiquitous GUS expression throughout the sporophyte (CITATIOND). Although more experiments will be necessary to dissect the exact role of AtPUX7 intron 1, our data suggest a role for intron 1 and, thus, IME in driving strong AtPUX7 expression in the sporophyte. To assess a putative role for AtPUX7 during development, we analysed its subcellular localization of the AtPUX7 protein. To this end, the AtPUX7 coding sequence was cloned as a C-terminal fusion to the GFP6 fluorescent marker, under the control of the strong promoter 35S CaMV (CITATION), and its subcellular localization was assessed using confocal microscopy in the T2 progeny of four independent lines. The GFP6:AtPUX7 fusion was localized to the nucleus and, to a weaker extent, to the cytosol (CITATIONA). Because of its significant expression during male gametophyte development, we investigated AtPUX7 subcellular localization in pollen. Due to the fact that the CaMV 35S promoter is poorly expressed during pollen development (CITATION), we drove the expression of AtPUX7:GFP fusion under the control of the strong pollen specific promoter LAT52 (CITATION), which allows a specific and strong expression in the pollen vegetative cell (CITATION). The AtPUX7:GFP6 fusion showed a strong fluorescent signal in nuclei as well as a uniform cytosolic fluorescence, similar to its localization pattern in sporophytic cells (CITATIONA and B). It has been shown in different species that UBX domains bind to the AAA-ATPase CDC48/p97 (CITATION), and that UBX proteins are CDC48 cofactors. In Arabidopsis, four UBX proteins have been shown to interact with AtCDC48 (PUX1–PUX4, CITATION). Further analysis of the domain required for PUX1–AtCDC48 interaction pointed to both the UBX domain and the C-terminal domain, making PUX1 an exception to the general rule (CITATION). There are three CDC48 genes in A. thaliana CDC48A, B and C (CITATION). Atcdc48a mutant plants show impaired male gametophyte development (CITATION), suggesting it plays a role at that stage. Indeed, AtCDC48A is expressed throughout the male gametophyte development (CITATION), and YFP:CDC48A fusions are localized to the vegetative nucleus and around (CITATION). We cloned the more broadly expressed AtCDC48A gene (CITATION) using the same LAT52 driven expression as for AtPUX7, and found a similar strong expression of AtCDC48A in nucleus and in cytosol (CITATIONB), mirroring the AtPUX7 subcellular localization. Given the presence of both a UBA-like and a UBX domain in AtPUX7, we tested by yeast two-hybrid experiments the AtPUX7 interaction potential with both ubiquitin and AtCDC48A. Because of the self-activation property of the UAS domain (data not shown), the AtPUX7 was fused to the GAL AD domain. Interactions between the UBA-like domain and ubiquitin and between UBX and AtCDC48, respectively, have been shown to be accurately monitored by this method (CITATION). We found the complete AtPUX7 to interact with both ubiquitin and AtCDC48 (CITATIONA). To ensure that this binding was mediated by the UBA-like and the UBX domains, both cDNA fragments encompassing each of these two domains were used in a further yeast two-hybrid test (CITATIONB and C). The interaction between the AtPUX7 UBA-like domain and ubiquitin as well as the interaction between the AtPUX7 UBX domain and CDC48A were confirmed in both orientations of bait and target. We note that the AtPUX7 sequence fragments used were not strictly limited to those encoding the predicted UBA-like and UBX domains, leaving the question open that the interaction domain could also implicate sequences outside of these domains. Although a second putative ubiquitin binding domain in the central part of AtPUX7 (UIM, ubiquitin interacting motif, spanning AtPUX7 AA 328–347) was predicted, no interaction could be detected between this domain and ubiquitin (data not shown). It is possible that, as it has been shown for the human UBXD7, the UIM domain of AtPUX7 interacts directly with other ubiquitin-like proteins such as NEDD8 (CITATION). The existence of such interactions will require further testing. The interaction between AtPUX7 and AtCDC48A was also confirmed in vivo, by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (biFC, CITATION ). Indeed, a strong interaction between AtPUX7 and AtCDC48A could be visualised both in the nucleus and in the cytosol in agrobacterium-inoculated Nicotiana benthamiana. This interaction is consistent with the subcellular localization of both AtPUX7 and AtCDC48A (CITATION). Deleting the C-terminal UBX domain of AtPUX7 strongly diminished the fluorescence signal to a level similar to that observed for the negative control (AtPUX7+Globosa transcription factor). Several UBX-containing proteins have been shown to be able to bridge ubiquitin with AtCDC48 in yeast (CITATION) and in mammals (CITATION). Because of the presence of both a UBA-like and a UBX domain in AtPUX7, we reasoned that AtPUX7 could act similarly. Therefore, to test this interaction, we used a yeast three-hybrid assay that is based on a modified yeast two-hybrid system where a third protein partner is expressed as a nuclear protein via the pRED-NLS gateway vector (CITATION). Briefly, we expressed in yeast the ubiquitin and AtCDC48A, both fused as a translational C-term fusion to the GAL4 AD and BD, respectively, and added a third partner by expressing various forms of AtPUX7 fused to an NLS signal. No direct interaction was found between ubiquitin and AtCDC48A when they were co-expressed with an empty pRED-NLS vector, which is consistent with the weak affinity of AtCDC48 for ubiquitin (CITATION). In contrast, the expression of the full-length AtPUX7 protein allowed yeast growth on selective SD-LWUH (-Leu-Trp-Ura-His) medium, therefore showing that it is sufficient to bridge ubiquitin with AtCDC48A (CITATION ). Consistent with the yeast two-hybrid experiments, deletion of either the UBA-like or the UBX domain was sufficient to suppress this interaction. To gain insight into the gene function, we searched for Atpux7 mutant alleles in the public Arabidopsis mutant collections and identified the FLAG-585C03 line from the Versailles T-DNA collection. In this line, the T-DNA is inserted into the first AtPUX7 intron, making it a likely complete loss-of-function Atpux7 allele that we called Atpux7-1. RT-PCR analysis of plants homozygous for this mutation showed that AtPUX7 mRNA expression was undetectable, indicating that Atpux7-1 is a loss-of-function mutant (CITATIONA–C). However, homozygous Atpux7-1 mutant plants did not display obvious sporophytic phenotypes compared to wild-type plants (CITATIOND, E), and pollen viability as assessed by Alexander staining was found to be unaffected (CITATIONF, G). As we suspected that the AtPUX7 loss-of-function might hinder the male gametophyte development, male transmission rates of the Atpux7-1 mutation was assessed by crossing Atpux7-1 heterozygous plants to wild-type plants and scoring by genotyping the percentage of Atpux7-1-bearing plants in the progeny. The rationale for this experiment is that, as male gametophytes are haploid, if the AtPUX7 gene is essential for male gametophyte development, the pollen containing the Atpux7-1 allele should degenerate and not be transmitted to the progeny. As a result, the presence of Atpux7 heterozygous plants in the progeny of these crosses should be much lower than the expected Mendelian 50% segregation (CITATION). When the heterozygous Atpux7-1 plants were used as the male parent, the segregation of Atpux7-1 in the progeny was found to be 40% (n=82), suggesting that the male gametophyte transmission is not significantly affected by the AtPUX7 knock-out. We also carried out the reverse experiment by using the heterozygous Atpux7-1 plants as the female parent and found that, similarly, the Atpux7-1 mutation did not affect the female gametophyte transmission (transmission to progeny 44%, n=86). Combined mutant analysis or multiple gene knockdowns show that several UBX-containing proteins act redundantly during sporulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as well as during spermatogenesis in C. elegans, respectively (CITATION). Interestingly in C. elegans, the three redundant genes encode UBX proteins that show considerable structural differences: UBXN-3 is the closest to AtPUX7 (CITATIONB), UBXN-1 contains both a UBA and a Zinc-finger domain (InterPro accession number IPR015880) and UBXN-2 contains a SEP domain (IPR012989). This data indicates that UBX proteins can act redundantly despite having different overall domain compositions, suggesting that additional AtPUX genes may be involved in both gametophyte and sporophyte development.
!~MM~! B. napus L. cv. Brutor were grown under standard greenhouse conditions and were used for RNA extraction. A. thaliana Col (Columbia) and Ws (Wassilevskija) accessions were used as wild-type controls. The Atpux7-1 mutant allele was isolated from the Versailles collection of T-DNA insertion mutants (Ws accession) as FLAG-585C03. For growth on either plates or soil, seeds were stratified for 2days at 4°C and grown at 18 to 20°C, with 16h light (fluorescent light: 100μmol photons m−2 s−1) and 8h dark cycles. Immature flowers were emasculated and manually cross-pollinated for crosses. All binary vectors were transformed into A. thaliana using the floral dip method (CITATION) in Col plants. All T1 plants were selected on Germination Media plates supplemented with 15mg/L Hygromycin B. All constructed plasmids and oligonucleotides used in this study are listed in CITATION, respectively. All constructed plasmids and oligonucleotides used in this study are listed in Supplemental Tables 1 and 2, respectively. Briefly, for the GUS reporter constructs an 819bp B. napus upstream sequence to BnUBX1 cDNA was obtained by TAIL-PCR. This sequence includes 527bp of promoter, 76bp of 5′ UTR and 216bp of the Exon I coding sequence. This fragment was translationally fused to the uidA gene in pJD81. The BnUBX1::uidA gene fusion was then introduced in the binary vector pEC2 (CITATION), resulting in the pJD131 plasmid. Similarly, a 1168bp A. thaliana upstream sequence to AtPUX7 was transcriptionally fused to the uidA in pEC2, and a 1920bp fragment, containing the 1168bp promoter fragment of AtPUX7 plus the first exon (102bp), the first intron (554bp) and the beginning of the second exon (96bp) was translationally fused to the uidA gene resulting in pPAG107 and pPAG113, respectively. To construct the new set of LAT52-gateway plasmids, a −492bp LAT52 promoter was amplified on pLAT52::GUS (a gift from D. Twell) and cloned as a HindIII–KpnI fragment to replace the CaMV 35S promoter in the binary vectors pMDC32 and pMDC43 (CITATION), resulting in pJL231 and pJL233, respectively. Entry clones were prepared by RT-PCR amplification introducing the attB1/attB2 gateway recombination sequences, and BP clonase recombination into the pDONR207 vector (Invitrogen). All clones were sequence-checked. All further clones were obtained by LR clonase recombination reactions. Destination vectors used are as follows: pMDC43 for the CaMV 35S-driven GFP-C term fusion (CITATION); pJL233 for LAT52-driven GFP fusion (this study); pGADT7 gateway and pGBKT7 gateway for yeast two-hybrid interaction studies (CITATION); pRED-NLS gateway for yeast three-hybrid interaction studies (CITATION) and pBIFP2 and pBIFP3 for bimolecular fluorescent complementation experiments (CITATION). For yeast two-hybrid analyses, the Matchmaker GAL4 two-hybrid system 3 was used according to protocols described in the Clontech Yeast Protocol Handbook, except that the PJ69a and PJ69α yeast strains were used. pGADT7- and pGBKT7-derived vectors were transformed into PJ69a and PJ69α, respectively. After mating, yeast colonies transformed by both plasmids were selected on selective medium lacking Leucine and Tryptophane (SD-LW). For each combination, three large colonies were resuspended in 100μL sterile water and 10μL was spotted on SD-LW, as control, and on selective medium lacking Leucine, Tryptophane and Histidine (SD-LWH) on which growth only happened if both candidates interact. For yeast three-hybrid analyses, similar methods were followed except that PJ69α was first transformed with the pRED-NLS-derived vectors before being further re-transformed with pGBKT7-derived vectors. After mating, diploid yeasts transformed by pGADT7, pRED-NLS and pGBKT7 vectors were selected on media lacking Leucine, Tryptophane and Uracyl (SD-LWU) and interactions were assessed on media lacking Leucine, Tryptophane and Uracyl and Histidine (SD-LWUH). Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (biFC) assay was carried out as described (CITATION). Co-expression of pBIFP2- and pBIFP3-derived vectors was performed by transient Agrobacterium tumefasciens transformation and YFP fluorescence was detected 2 to 3days after infiltration. As a control, interaction between the MADS box transcription factors DEFICIENS and GLOBOSA was carried out using the clones pBIFP2-DEF and pBIFP3-GLO. Histochemical GUS staining was performed as described (CITATION). Flower stages were determined according to CITATION. Pollen viability was assessed using Alexander staining (CITATION) and observed with a PL Fluotar X25 dry objective on a Leitz Diaplan microscope. GFP and FM4-64 imaging were obtained using a Leica SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. For GFP imaging in pollen, DAPI staining observations (CITATION) were carried out using a Leica DMRXA2 microscope; photographs were taken using a CoolSNAP HQ (Roper) camera driven by Open LAB 4.0.4 software.
