!~ABS~! In plant cells, secretory and endocytic routes intersect at the trans-Golgi network (TGN)/early endosome (EE), where cargos are further sorted correctly and in a timely manner. Cargo sorting is essential for plant survival and therefore necessitates complex molecular machinery. Adaptor proteins (APs) play key roles in this process by recruiting coat proteins and selecting cargos for different vesicle carriers. The µ1 subunit of AP-1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) was recently identified at the TGN/EE and shown to be essential for cytokinesis. However, little was known about other cellular activities affected by mutations in AP-1 or the developmental consequences of such mutations. We report here that HAPLESS13 (HAP13), the Arabidopsis µ1 adaptin, is essential for protein sorting at the TGN/EE. Functional loss of HAP13 displayed pleiotropic developmental defects, some of which were suggestive of disrupted auxin signaling. Consistent with this, the asymmetric localization of PIN-FORMED2 (PIN2), an auxin transporter, was compromised in the mutant. In addition, cell morphogenesis was disrupted. We further demonstrate that HAP13 is critical for brefeldin A-sensitive but wortmannin-insensitive post-Golgi trafficking. Our results show that HAP13 is a key link in the sophisticated trafficking network in plant cells.
!~RES~! To determine the expression pattern of HAP13, we generated ProHAP13:GUS reporter lines and found out that HAP13 is expressed in all tissues throughout developmental stages (Supplemental Methods S1), including seedlings (Fig. 1A), leaves (Fig. 1, B and C), roots (Fig. 1D), and reproductive organs (Fig. 1, E–H) as well as in various cell types such as root hairs (Fig. 1I), trichomes (Fig. 1J), pollen (Fig. 1K), and growing pollen tubes (Fig. 1L), suggesting its function beyond the gametophytic stage. [[FIGURE]] To determine the function of HAP13 in sporophytic tissues, we characterized an additional allele of HAP13 (Fig. 2A) and confirmed that no full-length transcript of HAP13 could be detected in hap13-1/ap1m2-1 (CITATION; Supplemental Methods S1). However, a partial transcript potentially encoding a truncated HAP13 with the first 229 amino acids (HAP13N229) was detected in hap13-1. This truncated protein would be able to incorporate into the AP-1 complex but unable to interact with cargo proteins according to the structure of its homologs in metazoa (CITATION). Homozygous hap13-1 plants were obtained at a significantly distorted ratio (Supplemental Table S1) due to defective male gametophytic function (Supplemental Fig. S1). hap13-1 showed pleiotropic developmental defects (Fig. 2, C–G). The growth of primary roots of hap13-1 arrested precociously (Fig. 2C; Supplemental Fig. S2A), whereas the number of lateral roots increased significantly (Fig. 2, D and E; Supplemental Fig. S2B). Wild-type plants grown in soil for 30 to 35 d started the reproductive phase (Fig. 2F), whereas hap13-1 hardly made the transition to reproductive growth when grown in soil (Fig. 2G), although it did manage to produce inflorescences when maintained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium in sterile glass tubes (Fig. 2, L–O). Compared with the wild type (Fig. 2H), hap13-1 had compacted inflorescences due to less elongated pedicles (Fig. 2M). All four whorls were present but were much smaller in hap13-1 (Fig. 2, L–O) than in the wild type (Fig. 2, I–K). Sepals, petals, and pistils were deformed in hap13-1, showing uneven surfaces, loss of conical cell shape, and nonelongating papilla cells, respectively (Fig. 2, L, N, and O). Because hap13-1 showed early senescence, we analyzed reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and cell death. Indeed, compared with the wild type at the same developmental stages, both ROS production and cell death were increased in hap13-1 (Supplemental Fig. S3). ROS production was higher in newly initiated rather than old hap13-1 leaves, whereas cell death was more severe in older true leaves than in cotyledons or newly initiated leaves of hap13-1 (Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] That HAP13 expression was detected in vascular tissues throughout development (Fig. 1) and hap13-1 displayed defective organ formation (Fig. 2) suggested that HAP13 was essential for vascular development. To test this hypothesis, we characterized the vasculature of leaves, roots, hypocotyls, and stems (Fig. 3). The leaf venation network of hap13-1 was different from that of the wild type in three aspects (Fig. 3, A and B). First, in contrast to the closed loops of the wild type (Fig. 3A), hap13-1 had incomplete loops such that all distal veins were open (Fig. 3B). Second, higher order veins present in the wild type (Fig. 3A; i.e. tertiary and quaternary veins) were absent in hap13-1 (Fig. 3B). Third, vascular islands, veins broken from the venation network, were detected in hap13-1 leaves (Fig. 3B). To determine whether these venation defects were due to defects in procambial formation or differentiation, we introduced the procambial marker ProHB8:GUS (CITATION) into hap13-1. Similar venation defects were observed after staining for GUS, including highly reduced venation complexity, incomplete loops, as well as vascular islands (Supplemental Fig. S4), suggesting that both procambial patterning and differentiation were defective in hap13-1. Transmission electron micrography (TEM) of leaf vasculature showed that the xylem of hap13-1 (Fig. 3D) did not form the lignified hollow tubular structure as in the wild type (Fig. 3C), indicating defective programmed cell death of xylem cells. [[FIGURE]] The vasculature of stems from just bolted plants or below the inflorescence (CITATION) typically contains six to eight vascular bundles that are distributed in an orderly circular way (Fig. 3, G and J), centering on heterogenous parenchyma cells (Fig. 3, G and J). Within each bundle, the phloem and the xylem are separated by a fascicular cambium that continues to differentiate into either phloem or xylem (Fig. 3, H and I). However, the ordered distribution of vascular bundles was lost in hap13-1, such that all vascular bundles either formed a continuous organization (Fig. 3K) or were distributed randomly within the stem (Fig. 3N). Within each discernible vascular bundle in hap13-1, the normal spatial distribution of phloem and xylem was disrupted (Fig. 3, L and M). In addition, both the phloem and the interfascicular cambium were hardly detected (Fig. 3M). In contrast to the absence of both phloem and interfascicular cambium, the cells of the cortex layer surrounding the vascular bundles had proliferated (Fig. 3, K–N). Despite the deformation of vascular systems in the aerial parts of hap13-1, the vascular development of roots and hypocotyls in hap13-1 (Fig. 3F; Supplemental Fig. S4) was not discernibly different from that of the wild type (Fig. 3E; Supplemental Fig. S4), indicating that HAP13 might be essential for vascular development in the aerial parts. The developmental defects of hap13-1, such as leaf morphogenesis, vascular development, as well as root growth, suggested altered auxin signaling (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine if auxin distribution was perturbed in hap13-1, we introduced the synthetic auxin response promoter ProDR5 (CITATION) in hap13-1 and analyzed the expression of GUS or GFP reporters. GUS signals were mostly restricted to the apex and slightly along the edge (Fig. 4A) of cotyledons at 6 d after germination (DAG) as well as at the primary root tips in the wild type (Fig. 4C). By contrast, ectopic GUS signals were detected at the basal parts of the hap13-1 cotyledons (Fig. 4B). In roots, GUS signals were weak in the root tips of hap13-1 but expanded ectopically (Fig. 4D). These expression patterns were confirmed by ProDR5:GFP; instead of the strong and spatially restricted signals in the wild type (Fig. 4G), weak but expanded GFP signals were detected in hap13-1 (Fig. 4H), suggestive of a compromised auxin gradient in hap13-1. We further tested the root gravitropic response, a dynamic process regulated by auxin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, roots of hap13-1 were less responsive to gravity (Fig. 4K). The hyposensitivity of hap13-1 to gravity was confirmed by histochemical analysis of ProDR5:GUS;hap13-1 (Fig. 4, E and F). In addition, columena cells that sense gravity were ordered in the wild type (Fig. 4I) but disorganized in hap13-1 (Fig. 4J). These results suggested compromised auxin distribution in hap13-1. [[FIGURE]] Because HAP13 is expressed in most, if not all, cell types (Fig. 1), we asked if cell morphogenesis was affected in hap13-1. Wild-type leaves were flat and symmetric (Fig. 5A). By contrast, hap13-1 leaves were rugged and asymmetric (Fig. 5B). Leaf pavement cells were significantly smaller and lost their characteristic jigsaw puzzle shape in hap13-1 (Fig. 5, C, D, K, and L). Trichomes are less complex in hap13-1; most trichomes on hap13-1 leaves showed only one branch (Fig. 5, F and M), while three branches were typical on the wild type (Fig. 5, E and M). Defects in cell morphogenesis in hap13-1 extended to the epidermal and cortex cells in roots and hypocotyls (Fig. 5H; Supplemental Fig. S4). The wild type showed rectangle-shaped epidermal or cortex cells from longitudinal growth, whereas the growth polarity of hap13-1 cells was disrupted, leading to irregularly shaped or ballooning cells (Fig. 5H; Supplemental Fig. S4). Root hairs, the other tip-growing cells in addition to pollen tubes, were either bulged or hardly initiated in hap13-1 (Fig. 5J), further demonstrating the importance of HAP13 in cell polarity and morphogenesis. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed defects were indeed due to functional disruption of HAP13, we introduced a GFP translational fusion of the HAP13 genomic fragment into hap13-1 (Supplemental Methods S1; Supplemental Table S2). Transcript and phenotypic analyses showed that exogenous HAP13 fully rescued the defects of hap13-1 (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Fig. S5), confirming that the phenotypes were due to the mutation in HAP13. Because the GFP translational fusion did not interfere with the function of HAP13, it was used to determine the subcellular localization of HAP13. Consistent with what was reported recently (CITATION; CITATION), stable transgenic plants expressing 35S:HAP13-red fluorescent protein (RFP) showed punctate vesicles that were sensitive to BFA but not to wortmannin (Supplemental Fig. S5), confirming its identity as the TGN/EE. To further confirm that HAP13 is the bona fide µ-subunit of AP-1, we introduced HAP13 into the yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) amp1− mutant (Supplemental Methods S1) in which the µ-subunit of AP-1 was nonfunctional (CITATION). HAP13 complemented the vacuolar fusion defect of the yeast amp1− mutant upon osmotic stress, albeit to a lesser extent than by AMP1 (Supplemental Fig. S6), further proving HAP13 as the µ-adaptin of AP-1. To determine which trafficking routes are regulated by HAP13, we first used the endocytic tracer FM4-64 in an uptake study. Pulse-labeled FM4-64 entered into cells via endocytic trafficking and finally reached the vacuolar membrane (the tonoplast) in the wild type (Fig. 6, A–D), as reported (CITATION). FM4-64 entry from the PM was significantly increased in hap13-1 (Fig. 6, G, H, and S) at various time points, as represented by the number of endosomes (Fig. 6S). Treatment with 50 µm BFA resulted in intracellular aggregation of FM4-64 signals in the wild type (Fig. 6E), while BFA washout redistributed FM4-64 from the intracellular aggregates (BFA compartments) to endosomes (Fig. 6F). By contrast, a significantly larger amount of the FM4-64 signal remained at endosomes upon BFA treatment in hap13-1 (Fig. 6, K, T, and U), suggesting reduced sensitivity to BFA. BFA compartments in hap13-1 were fewer and smaller (Fig. 6, K and T). A large amount of the FM4-64 signal was still enclosed in BFA compartments beside endosome signals upon BFA washout (Fig. 6, L, T, and U). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the results obtained with FM4-64 uptake, we also performed an ultrastructural study using TEM. No difference regarding the distribution of Golgi and its associated vesicles was obvious in root epidermal cells of the wild type (Fig. 6M) and hap13-1 (Fig. 6N). BFA treatment induced aggregates of small vesicles that were surrounded with numerous Golgi in the wild type (Fig. 6O). By contrast, aggregates in hap13-1 were smaller and more irregular (Fig. 6P). In addition, individual vesicles within the aggregates were larger in hap13-1 (Fig. 6P) than in the wild type (Fig. 6O) upon BFA treatment. BFA washout redistributed vesicles from the BFA compartments, accompanied by randomly redistributed Golgi in the wild type (Fig. 6Q). However, the aggregates in hap13-1 were insensitive to BFA washout (Fig. 6R). In addition, individual vesicles within the BFA compartments were enlarged in hap13-1 (Fig. 6R). These results suggested that HAP13 is critical for BFA-sensitive post-Golgi trafficking from the TGN/EE to the PVC/MVB. At 3 h, FM4-64 reaches the tonoplast. However, the morphology of the tonoplast seemed irregular in hap13-1 (Fig. 6J) relative to that in the wild type (Fig. 6D). Therefore, we introduced a fluorescent tonoplast marker, WAVE9R (CITATION), into hap13-1 to assess this apparent irregularity. Root cells of the wild type contained gradually maturing vacuoles in the root tip to the root hair elongation zone, where a fully expanded central vacuole occupied the entire cell (Supplemental Fig. S7). By contrast, numerous smaller vacuoles were still present in differentiated cells in hap13-1 (Supplemental Fig. S7), suggesting defective vacuolar fusion. To further dissect vesicle trafficking routes in which HAP13 plays critical roles, we introduced fluorescent protein fusions of potential cargos in hap13-1 and analyzed their dynamic subcellular distribution. BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1) is an RLK distributed at the PM and at punctate vesicles in the wild type (Fig. 7A) due to its constitutive endocytic recycling (CITATION). In comparison, a higher percentage of BRI1 signals were detected as punctate vesicles in hap13-1 (Fig. 7D) than in the wild type (Fig. 7A). BFA together with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) caused an aggregation of BRI1-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) to the BFA compartments in the wild type (Fig. 7B) and in hap13-1 (Fig. 7E). Washout of BFA in the presence of CHX relocated BRI1 from the BFA compartments to the PM and punctate vesicles in the wild type (Fig. 7C). By contrast, a higher percentage of BRI1 signals were still present in the BFA compartments and in the cytoplasm in hap13-1 after BFA washout (Fig. 7F), while they were hardly detected at the PM (Fig. 7F). These results suggested that BFA-sensitive recycling of BRI1-YFP from the TGN/EE to the PM requires HAP13 function. [[FIGURE]] We next analyzed the localization of PIN2:GFP (CITATION), since PIN2 is critical for gravitropic responses (CITATION; CITATION) and gravitropism was compromised in hap13-1. PIN2:GFP was distributed asymmetrically in the epidermal cells of wild-type roots (Fig. 7G) as reported (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the distribution of PIN2:GFP in hap13-1 was irregular at the PM (Fig. 7J). BFA together with CHX induced the aggregation of PIN2 to BFA compartments in both the wild type and hap13-1 (Fig. 7, H and K). However, a portion of the PIN2 signal was still detected at punctate vesicles in hap13-1 (Fig. 7K), suggesting hyposensitivity to BFA. BFA washout in the presence of CHX relocated PIN2 to the PM in the wild type (Fig. 7I). By contrast, a large fraction of signals were detected at punctate vesicles as well as vacuoles in hap13-1 after BFA washout (Fig. 7L). These results suggested that the asymmetric localization of PIN2 at the PM through recycling from the TGN/EE requires HAP13.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) hap13 (CS16318) and hap13-2 (SALK_024181) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. hap13-1 (FLAG_293C11) was obtained from the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia or Wassilewskija (Ws) was used as the wild type. Plants were grown as described (CITATION). hap13-1 was crossed with ProDR5:GUS and ProDR5:GFP (CITATION) to determine auxin distribution patterns. GUS staining were performed with 5- to 8-DAG seedlings of ProDR5:GUS;Ws or ProDR5:GUS;hap13-1. Gravitropic responses of primary roots were measured as described (CITATION). Amyloplast deposition in root tips by Lugol’s staining was performed as described (CITATION). FM4-64 was pulse labeled to delineate root cells of 5-DAG seedlings of ProDR5:GFP;Ws or ProDR5:GFP;hap13-1. For venation pattern imaging, leaves of the wild type and hap13-1 at 25 DAG were fixed for 1 h in acetic acid:95% ethanol (1:3), cleared in a sequential ethanol series, and finally fixed in 10% NaOH for 1 h at 42°C. Specimens were mounted on slides in 50% glycerol and visualized with a Zeiss Axiophot microscope under dark-field illumination. Vascular development of roots, stems, and inflorescence stems was determined as described (CITATION). Scanning electron microscopy and TEM were performed as described (CITATION). For FM4-64 uptake, roots of 4- to 5-DAG seedlings were pulse labeled with 4 µm FM4-64 for 5 min except for the 1-min assay. Roots were then taken out, washed three times with liquid MS medium without FM4-64, and visualized for FM4-64 intake at designated times. For BFA (Sigma; 50 µm in dimethyl sulfoxide) treatment of FM4-64 labeling, roots were pulse labeled with FM4-64 for 5 min, washed and incubated with MS medium supplemented with 50 µm BFA for 50 min, and visualized for the formation of BFA compartments. BFA washout was performed by washing the above seedlings with MS medium without BFA three times before further incubation. BFA treatment and washout for roots expressing BRI1:YFP and PIN2:GFP were performed similarly except that both BFA treatment and washout were performed in the presence of 50 µm CHX. Wortmannin treatment was performed as described (CITATION). Transgenic plants of ProHAP13:NLS-YFP and sections were captured using Axio Observer D1 equipped with a CCD camera (Zeiss). Other fluorescent images were captured by an inverted laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM780; Zeiss) with a Plan-Neofluar ×40/1.3 oil differential interference contrast objective or ×63/1.45 oil differential interference contrast objective. TEM was performed as described (CITATION). GFP-RFP double-labeled plant materials were captured alternately using line switching with the multitrack function (488 nm for GFP and 545 nm for RFP). Fluorescence was detected using a 505- to 550-nm band-pass filter for GFP and a 575- to 650-nm band-pass filter for RFP. Postacquisition image processing was performed with the LSM image-processing software (Zeiss). For quantification of FM4-64 uptake from 15 to 90 min, vesicles in the cytoplasm of 60 to 72 root epidermal cells were counted with ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). For quantification of FM4-64 agglomeration upon BFA treatment and after BFA washout, FM4-64 agglomerations were counted with ImageJ. Data were collected from 54 to 63 root epidermal cells for each genotype. Sequence data from this article can be found in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database under accession number At1g60780 (HAP13). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Germination of hap13-1 pollen was significantly reduced. Supplemental Figure S2. hap13-1 showed reduced growth of primary roots but enhanced initiation of lateral roots. Supplemental Figure S3. hap13-1 showed enhanced ROS production and cell death in leaves. Supplemental Figure S4. Vascular development was defective in leaves but not in roots or hypocotyls in hap13-1. Supplemental Figure S5. A GFP translational fusion of HAP13 fully rescued the growth defects of hap13-1. Supplemental Figure S6. HAP13 complemented the defective vacuolar fusion of the yeast apm1− mutant upon osmotic stresses. Supplemental Figure S7. hap13-1 showed defective vacuolar fusion. Supplemental Table S1. Mutations at HAP13 resulted in defective male transmission. Supplemental Table S2. Oligonucleotides used in this study. Supplemental Methods S1.
