!~ABS~! Copper (Cu), an essential redox active cofactor, participates in fundamental biological processes, but it becomes highly cytotoxic when present in excess. Therefore, living organisms have established suitable mechanisms to balance cellular and systemic Cu levels. An important strategy to maintain Cu homeostasis consists of regulating uptake and mobilization via the conserved family of CTR/COPT Cu transport proteins. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, COPT1 protein mediates root Cu acquisition, whereas COPT5 protein functions in Cu mobilization from intracellular storage organelles. The function of these transporters becomes critical when environmental Cu bioavailability diminishes. However, little is know about the mechanisms that mediate plant Cu distribution. In this report, we present evidence supporting an important role for COPT6 in Arabidopsis Cu distribution. Similarly to COPT1 and COPT2, COPT6 fully complements yeast mutants defective in high-affinity Cu uptake and localizes to the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis cells. Whereas COPT2 mRNA is only up-regulated upon severe Cu deficiency, COPT6 transcript is expressed under Cu excess conditions and displays a more gradual increase in response to decreases in environmental Cu levels. Consistent with COPT6 expression in aerial vascular tissues and reproductive organs, copt6 mutant plants exhibit altered Cu distribution under Cu-deficient conditions, including increased Cu in rosette leaves but reduced Cu levels in seeds. This altered Cu distribution is fully rescued when the wild-type COPT6 gene is reintroduced into the copt6 mutant line. Taken together, these findings highlight the relevance of COPT6 in shoot Cu redistribution when environmental Cu is limited.
!~RES~! As a consequence of a re-annotation of the Arabidopsis genome, we identified a potential Cu transport gene (At2g26975) that encodes a 145 amino acid protein that we named COPT6 (CITATION). The COPT6 protein sequence displays multiple features conserved in other COPT/CTR-type transport proteins including three TMDs and the conserved Mx3M and Gx3G motifs within TMD2 and TMD3, respectively (CITATION; Fig. 1A). A recent study has shown that COPT6 complements the lack of growth in non-fermentable carbon sources of the ctr1Δctr2Δctr3Δ yeast mutant, in an Mx3M-dependent manner (CITATION). To study COPT6 function in Cu transport and utilization further as compared with other members of the Arabidopsis COPT family of Cu transporters, we expressed COPT1, COPT2, COPT3, COPT5 and COPT6 under the control of the constitutive TDH3 promoter in the ctr1Δctr3Δ yeast strain lacking high-affinity Cu transport at the plasma membrane, but with no defects in vacuolar Cu mobilization. As shown in Fig. 1B, in addition to complementing the ctr1Δctr3Δ growth defect on media with non-fermentable carbon sources (YPEG), COPT6 also rescues the growth defect of ctr1Δctr3Δ cells under iron-deficient conditions achieved by the addition of the Fe2+-specific chelator bathophenanthroline disulfonate (BPS). This result suggests that COPT6 provides Cu to both the mitochondrial COX and the Fet3 multiCu-ferroxidase essential for high-affinity iron acquisition. Compared with other COPT family members, COPT6 complements the ctr1Δctr3Δ growth defect in respiratory- and iron-deficient conditions similarly to COPT1 and COPT2, whereas COPT3 and COPT5 only partially revert ctr1Δctr3Δ growth (Fig. 1B). Taken together, these data indicate that COPT6 is as efficient as the plasma membrane COPT1 and COPT2 transporters in Cu delivery to the yeast COX and Fe acquisition systems.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To ascertain the function of COPT6 in Arabidopsis plants, we have determined COPT6 subcellular and tissue-specific expression patterns. Consistent with complementation of yeast mutants defective in plasma membrane high-affinity Cu uptake and with a recent study (CITATION), the subcellular localization of a functional COPT6–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in Arabidopsis protoplasts overlaps with the FM4-64 lipophilic styryl dye at 4°C, indicating that COPT6 is a plasma membrane protein in plant cells (Fig. 2A). Furthermore, transgenic plants expressing the COPT6 promoter region fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (pCOPT6-GUS plants) indicate that COPT6 is mostly expressed in shoots including cotyledons and leaves, but is absent in primary roots (Fig. 2B, C). In adult plants, we observe that COPT6 is expressed in the vascular conduits of the stem and leaves, meristem, trichome and stomata (Fig. 2D–G). In pre-anthesis flowers, COPT6 is present in pistil and filaments (Fig. 2H), whereas in post-anthesis flowers COPT6 is also detected in pollen (Fig. 2I, J). During the development of the siliques, COPT6 is expressed in transmitting tissue and in the seed envelope, but not in the seed micropyle (Fig. 2K, L). Finally, COPT6 is also present in embryos (Fig. 2M). These results are consistent with previous studies (CITATION) indicating that COPT6 is a plasma membrane protein mostly expressed on the plant aerial part, especially in vascular conduits and reproductive organs.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The transcription of multiple genes involved in the Arabidopsis response to Cu deficiency, including the iron superoxide dismutase FSD1 and the Cu transporters COPT1 and COPT2, is activated when the environmental Cu concentration decreases (CITATION, CITATION). It has been previously shown that COPT6 mRNA is also up-regulated in response to Cu deficiency (CITATION); however, little is known about the range of Cu concentrations that mediate COPT6 activation as compared with other Cu-responsive genes. To address this question, we have determined by quantitative PCR (qPCR) the COPT6 and COPT2 mRNA levels in 7-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown under Cu-deficient conditions [half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (1/2 MS medium) + 100 μM of the specific Cu+ chelator bathocuproine disulfonic acid (BCS)], Cu-sufficient conditions (1/2 MS medium + 1 μM CuSO4) and Cu excess (1/2 MS medium + 10 μM CuSO4). As shown in Fig. 3, COPT2 mRNA levels do not display any alteration between Cu excess and Cu-sufficient conditions, whereas COPT6 expression is significantly increased. Upon Cu deficiency, COPT2 mRNA is strongly up-regulated (∼11-fold), whereas COPT6 increase by Cu deficiency is less severe (∼4- and ∼2-fold in comparison with 10 and 1 μM, respectively). These results indicate that COPT6 displays a less severe and a more gradual induction than COPT2 as Cu availability decreases.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To gain insight into the function of COPT6 in plant Cu homeostasis, we obtained the Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion line AL953351 from the GABI-Kat project (hereinafter denoted the copt6 mutant). We mapped its T-DNA insertion site to 21 nucleotides downstream of the COPT6 translation initiation codon, strongly suggesting that this line could allow the isolation of a loss-of-function mutant (Fig. 4A). Mutants were self-pollinated and homozygous plants were identified by PCR with specific oligonucleotides (Fig. 4B; and Materials and Methods). By semi-quantitative PCR using primers that amplify the COPT6 coding sequence, we determined COPT6 transcript levels in the copt6 homozygous line as compared with wild-type plants grown under different Cu availability conditions (see the Materials and Methods). As shown in Fig. 4C, COPT6 expression levels in copt6 plants remain below the levels of detection, whereas a slight increase is observed in wild-type plants in response to Cu scarcity, consistent with its Cu-dependent regulation. The expression levels of CSD1 and FSD1 genes were used as controls for Cu-regulated genes (Fig. 4C). Taken together, these results indicate that the copt6 homozygous line does not express the entire COPT6 mRNA.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To characterize further the copt6 homozygous line, we ascertained the presence of any transcript downstream of the T-DNA insertion line. For this purpose, we used qPCR and two oligos within this region (see the Materials and Methods). As shown in Fig. 3, analyses by qPCR indicate that copt6 plants display at least a 3-fold decrease in mRNA expression at the COPT6 locus in conditions of Cu excess (10 μM Cu), and uncover that wild-type plants display a COPT6 basal expression even under Cu excess. Consistent with the lack of COPT6 promoter regulation, residual expression at the COPT6 locus is not increased by Cu deficiency in copt6 mutant plants, as occurs in wild-type plants (Fig. 3). Furthermore, its altered 5′ end, which lacks the first 21 nucleotides of the COPT6 coding sequence, suggests that it is probably not translated to any functional protein. These results strongly suggest that copt6 is an Arabidopsis mutant line that does not express a functional COPT6 protein. To complement the copt6 mutant plant, a pCOPT6-COPT6 construct containing the COPT6 coding sequence under the control of its endogenous promoter was integrated into the copt6 line. Two COPT6-complemented lines, referred to as COPT6#1 and COPT6#2, were independently isolated and further analyzed for COPT6 expression. As shown in Fig. 3, both complemented lines recover the COPT6 expression levels of wild-type plants grown under 10 μM Cu. Furthermore, both COPT6-complemented lines rescue the gradual up-regulation of COPT6 mRNA levels observed in wild-type plants upon Cu deficiency. These results indicate that both COPT6-complemented lines fully recover the COPT6 expression defects of the copt6 mutant line and are appropriate to address the specificity of any phenotype associated with the lack of COPT6. To ascertain the function of the COPT6 transport protein in Arabidopsis plants, we grew the copt6 mutant line in standard conditions including soil and 1/2 MS medium plates, and no significant growth or Cu accumulation differences were observed when compared with wild-type lines (data not shown). Given that our data suggest that COPT6 functions in the aerial vascular tissues and its expression is regulated by Cu availability, we decided to determine the endogenous Cu levels in organs from wild-type, copt6 and COPT6-complemented plants grown under different environmental Cu concentrations. For this purpose, plants were grown in hydroponic cultures in the presence (+Cu) or absence (–Cu) of 1 μM Cu, and the endogenous Cu levels were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) in roots, stem, leaves and seeds. Under Cu-sufficient conditions, we do not observe any significant difference in tissue-specific Cu accumulation between wild-type, copt6 and COPT6-complemented plants (Fig. 5; Supplementary Fig. S1). In all tissues analyzed, the levels of endogenous Cu decrease when plants are grown under Cu-deficient conditions as compared with Cu sufficiency (Fig. 5; Supplementary Fig. S1). Furthermore, no difference in root and stem Cu levels is observed between wild-type and copt6 plants grown under low Cu (Supplementary Fig. S1). Importantly, we observe that copt6 mutants grown under Cu-deficient conditions display an approximately 35% increase in the endogenous levels of Cu in rosette leaves as compared with wild-type and COPT6-complemented plants (Fig. 5). Moreover, seeds from Cu-deficient copt6 plants display an approximately 40% decrease in endogenous Cu as compared with wild-type and COPT6-complemented plants. Since COPT6 is expressed in Arabidopsis reproductive tissues and Cu accumulation in seeds is altered in copt6 knock-out mutants, we decided to investigate further in more detail the Cu distribution in copt6 seeds. We used the Cu+-specific fluorescent probe Coppersensor-3 (CS3) (CITATION) to determine the distribution of labile Cu in seeds of wild-type, copt6 mutants and COPT6-complemented plants grown in the presence (+Cu) or absence (–Cu) of 1 μM Cu. In both conditions, all plant lines display a similar pattern of CS3 signal distribution due to Cu+ accumulation in the tissue or extracellular matrix space separating the embryo and the aleurone layer of the seed envelope (Fig. 6A). Image quantification of the CS3 signal shows that seed Cu+ levels decrease in response to Cu deficiency in all cases, with a drop observed for the copt6 mutant line (Fig. 6B). These results are consistent with the seed Cu accumulation data obtained by ICP-MS (Fig. 5B), which emphasize the difficulty for seeds to acquire Cu in the absence of COPT6. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that COPT6 plays an important role in plant Cu distribution between leaves and seeds when Cu is limiting.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Previous results have shown that overexpression of COPT1, COPT3 and COPT6 Cu transporters in Arabidopsis leads to an increase in endogenous Cu and exacerbated sensitivity to excess Cu as found in root length assays (CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, COPT1- and COPT3-overexpressing plants display additional phenotypes when grown in soil, which include a decrease in the growth rate and hyponastic leaves (CITATION). To ascertain whether COPT6 overexpression also leads to these additional phenotypes, we generated transgenic plants overexpressing COPT6 with a hemagglutinin (HA) epitope translationally fused to its C-terminus (COPT6OE; Fig. 7A). COPT6OE plants were grown in soil and compared with wild-type plants. As shown in Fig. 7B, COPT6OE plants exhibit a significant decrease in overall size when compared with the wild type. Furthermore, COPT6OE plants exhibit curly leaves similar to COPT1OE and COPT3OE plants (Fig. 7C) (CITATION). Taken together, these and previous results indicate that, in addition to higher endogenous Cu levels and Cu sensitivity, overexpression of Cu transporters from the COPT family also leads to a general growth defect and hyponastic leaves when grown in soil.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col 0) seeds were sterilized and stratified for 2 d at 4°C. Seeds were sown on 1/2 MS medium plates containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 1% (w/v) sucrose (CITATION), and transferred to chambers with a photoperiod of 16 h light (65 μmol/m2, 23°C) and 8 h darkness (16°C). For gene expression analyses, seedlings were grown for 7 d on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose in a 12 h/12 h photoperiod. The specific Cu+-chelator BCS or CuSO4 were added at the indicated concentrations. For metal content determination and seed analyses, hydroponic cultures were conducted from seedlings germinated on 0.1 × Hoagland medium supplemented with agar 0.7% (w/v) and transferred to boxes containing 0.1 × Hoagland pH 5.8 supplemented with 1 μM CuSO4 (+Cu) or Hoagland without CuSO4 (–Cu) as previously described (CITATION). The entire COPT6 coding sequence was amplified with the COPT6-BamHI-F and COPT6-HindIII-R primers, and cloned into the p426GDP yeast expression vector to obtain the p426GDP-COPT6 construct. Plasmids p426GPD-COPT1, p426GPD-COPT2, p426GPD-COPT3 and p426GPD-COPT5 have been previously described (CITATION). The complete COPT6 open reading frame was fused in-frame to GFP in the 35Ω-sGFP (S65T) plasmid (CITATION) to obtain the p35Ω-COPT6-GFP plasmid, which was used for the transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The specific primers used for this purpose were COPT6-SalI-F and COPT6-NcoI-R. The COPT6-GFP sequence was amplified from p35Ω-COPT6-GFP plasmid with COPT6-BamHI-F and GFP-SalI-R primers and cloned into p426GPD yeast vector to obtain the p426GPD-COPT6-GFP plasmid that was used to check COPT6–GFP functionality in yeast complementation assays (data not shown). To complement the copt6 mutant line, a 1,512 bp genomic fragment containing the COPT6 promoter and its coding sequence was amplified with COPT6-GW-F and COPT6-GW-R primers and cloned into the entry vector pDONR207 (Invitrogen) by the Gateway-based BP recombinase (Invitrogen). The consequent pDONR207::COPT6p-COPT6 was used to generate the destiny vector with pMDC123 (CITATION) by means of the Gateway-based LR recombinase (Invitrogen). To obtain the pFP101-COPT6-HA plasmid, a PCR fragment harboring the COPT6 coding sequence without the stop codon fused to the human influenza virus eptiope HA tag was amplified with COPT6-SalI-F and COPT6HA-SalI-R primers and cloned into the pFP101 vector (CITATION). To determine the COPT6 tissue-specific expression pattern, the uidA coding sequence and 389 nucleotides of the COPT6 promoter region were cloned into the pFP101 vector (CITATION) lacking the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter to obtain the pCOPT6-GUS construct. The S. cerevisiae ctr1Δctr3Δ mutant strain was transformed with p426GPD, or with the vector containing COPT1, COPT2, COPT3, COPT5, COPT6 or COPT6-GFP. Yeast transformants were purified and assayed for growth on glucose (SC-ura: 0.67% yeast nitrogen base without amino acids, 0.2% dropout mixture without uracil, 2% glucose; or YPD: 1% yeast extract, 2% bactopeptone, 2% glucose), glucose + 100 μM bathophenanthroline disulfonate (SC-ura or YPD + BPS), ethanol/glycerol (YPEG: 1% yeast extract, 2% bactopeptone, 2% ethanol, 3% glycerol) and ethanol/glycerol + Cu (YPEG supplemented with 100 μM CuSO4) media solidified with 1.5% agar. Plates were incubated for 3–9 d at 30°C and photographed. The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion line copt6 was obtained from the GABI-Kat project (AL953351). The copt6 mutant line was self-pollinated, and homozygous lines were obtained. Oligonucleotides COPT6-RB, COPT6-LB and GABI-Kat-PCR were used to analyze the insertion site of the T-DNA within the COPT6 locus. To complement the copt6 mutant plant, the Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 pMP90 strain harboring the binary pMDC123-COPT6p-COPT6 plasmid was used to transform copt6 lines by floral dipping. Transformants were selected by spraying seedlings with a solution of BASTA (0.2% w/v). COPT6 overexpression with the CaMV 35S promoter was conducted by transforming wild-type plants with the binary pFP101-COPT6-HA vector. COPT6OE transformants were selected according to their seed fluorescence. Total Arabidopsis RNA was extracted with Trizol reagent (Ambion) and reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) was performed with Superscript II (Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION). Semi-quantitative PCRs were performed for COPT6, CSD1, FSD1 and ACT1 genes by using the COPT6-RT-F/COPT6-NcoI-R, CSD1-RT-F/CSD1-RT-R, FSD1-RT-F/FSD1-RT-R and ACT1-F/ACT1-R pairs of primers (see Table 1) at non-saturating conditions. qPCRs were performed with Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG with ROX (Invitrogen) to determine COPT2, COPT6 and Ubiquitin 10 (UBQ10) expression levels by using the specific COPT2-qRT-F/COPT2-qRT-R, COPT6-qPCR-F/COPT6-qPCR-R and UBQ10-F1/UBQ10-R1 oligonucleotides (see Table 1). Relative amounts of mRNA were normalized to UBQ10.  Green siliques were scratched with a razor to release immature seeds. Seeds were rapidly fixed in 0.5% glutaraldehyde and 2.5% formaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) at 4°C overnight. Fixed seeds were washed three times with phosphate buffer 0.1 M pH 7.4, followed by thorough rinsing in milliQ water. After progressive dehydration in a graded water–ethanol series and embedding in medium-grade LR White resin (Plano GmbH) at 4°C, samples were polymerized under UV light for 24 h at −20°C and 24 h at 0°C. Thin slices (0.5 μm) were incubated with a concentrated propidium iodide solution for 5 min, rinsed with milliQ water and incubated with the CS3 probe (10 μM in water) for 20–40 min at room temperature. Finally, seeds were rinsed with milliQ water before being observed under a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope at 488 nm for the excitation wavelength, 550–650 nm for the CS3 emission wavelength and 650–680 nm for the propidium iodide. The fluorescence intensity was determined from at least five different areas in four images with the ImageJ software (CITATION). Sequence analyses were performed with ClustalW2 and TMHMM Server v2.0. For determination of endogenous Cu levels, samples were digested with 65% (v/v) HNO3 at 90°C, diluted with milliQPLUS water and analyzed by ICP-MS at the Servei Central d’Instrumentació Científica (Universitat Jaume I de Castelló) and Servicios Centrales de Investigación (Universidad de Almería). Subcellular localization of COPT6–GFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts by confocal imaging was performed as previously described (CITATION). The GUS histochemical staining was performed as described elsewhere (CITATION). Western blot analyses against COPT6-HA protein were conducted as described previously (CITATION) by using a high-affinity mouse anti-HA antibody (3F10; Roche) and a secondary horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody against the mouse IgG (Amersham).
