!~ABS~! Polycomb group (PcG) proteins form essential epigenetic memory systems for controlling gene expression during development in plants and animals. However, the mechanism of plant PcG protein functions remains poorly understood. Here, we probed the composition and function of plant Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2). This work established the fact that all known plant PRC2 complexes contain MSI1, a homologue of Drosophila p55. While p55 is not essential for the in vitro enzymatic activity of PRC2, plant MSI1 was required for the functions of the EMBRYONIC FLOWER and the VERNALIZATION PRC2 complexes including trimethylation of histone H3 Lys27 (H3K27) at the target chromatin, as well as gene repression and establishment of competence to flower. We found that MSI1 serves to link PRC2 to LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN 1 (LHP1), a protein that binds H3K27me3 in vitro and in vivo and is required for a functional plant PcG system. The LHP1–MSI1 interaction forms a positive feedback loop to recruit PRC2 to chromatin that carries H3K27me3. Consequently, this can provide a mechanism for the faithful inheritance of local epigenetic information through replication.
!~RES~! EMF2 is essential for vegetative plant development (CITATION; CITATION), but the proposed EMF complex has not been isolated yet. To uncover the composition of the EMF complex in vivo, we expressed a FLAG‐tagged EMF2 in Arabidopsis and immunoaffinity‐purified the FLAG–EMF2 complex from inflorescences. Wild‐type plants served as controls. The purified fractions from four independent experiments were analysed by mass spectrometry. Measured spectra were searched with Mascot against the Arabidopsis TAIR9 protein database using a concatenated decoy database and imported into Scaffold. Cutoffs of 90% minimal confidence for protein identification and of 95% minimal confidence for peptide identification were applied. These criteria resulted in a spectrum false‐discovery rate below 1%. Only proteins identified with at least two peptides in at least two replicates but not in control samples were taken into account. Three plant PcG proteins were found to co‐purify with EMF2: FIE, SWN and MSI1 (Table I and Supplementary Table S1). This is the first demonstration of the composition of the plant EMF complex in vivo, showing that the core EMF complex consists of the four main subunits EMF2, MSI1, FIE and SWN. MSI2, 3, 4 and 5 were not found in any experiment, suggesting that these MSI1 homologues are not part of the core EMF complex in inflorescences. [[TABLE]] To verify the presence of MSI1 in the EMF complex, we tested the interaction of MSI1 and EMF2 in vivo. YFP‐tagged EMF2 (YFP–EMF2) and HA‐tagged MSI1 (HA–MSI1) or MSI4 (HA–MSI4) were transiently co‐expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. YFP–EMF2 was immunoaffinity‐purified, and the presence of the co‐precipitating proteins was analysed on protein immunoblots. HA–MSI1 but not HA–MSI4 was co‐precipitated with YFP–EMF2 (FIG-REF). This result confirms that MSI1 and EMF2 associate into a common complex in vivo. MSI4 did not interact with EMF2 in vivo in this assay. This finding not only establishes the specificity of the assay but also strengthens the notion that MSI1 but not MSI4 is a core EMF complex subunit in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To provide independent confirmation for the presence of MSI1 in the EMF complex, we performed reciprocal immunoaffinity purification experiments using an Arabidopsis line expressing GFP‐tagged MSI1 (MSI1–GFP) (CITATION) and a GFP control line. Purified fractions were analysed by mass spectrometry in order to identify proteins co‐precipitating with MSI1–GFP. Four independent experiments firmly established the presence of MSI1, EMF2, FIE and SWN in the complex (Table II). PcG proteins EMF2, FIE and SWN consistently co‐purified with MSI1–GFP, confirming that MSI1 is a core subunit of the EMF complex in vivo. Consistent with earlier observations (CITATION), the VRN2, VRN5 and VEL1 subunits of the VRN PRC2 complex were also found to associate with MSI1 in vivo (Table II). Several non‐PcG proteins co‐purified with MSI1, including homologues of yeast Rpd3 histone deacetylase complexes (Supplementary Table S2). To confirm these results, we performed additional immunoaffinity purification experiments using a modified protocol involving protein–protein cross‐linking prior to protein extraction. These experiments confirmed the presence of the initially identified MSI1 interactors, except for VRN5, and revealed additional candidate interactions (Table III and Supplementary Table S2). Notably, the plant PcG protein LHP1 was found with high confidence in both additional experiments. [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] Unexpectedly, the well‐characterized Arabidopsis PcG protein CLF (CITATION) was not found among the MSI1‐binding partners. CLF plays a major role during sporophytic plant development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and interacts with EMF2 in vitro and in yeast two‐hybrid assays (CITATION), suggesting that CLF is part of the EMF complex. Identification of proteins by mass spectrometry is affected by many protein‐specific factors including protein abundance (CITATION), and it is possible that CLF interacts with MSI1 but failed to be detected under our experimental conditions. This notion was supported by the considerably weaker expression of CLF compared with SWN at both transcript and protein levels (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether MSI1 interacts with CLF in vivo using an alternative approach. AcV5‐tagged CLF (AcV5–CLF) and HA–MSI1 were transiently co‐expressed in tobacco leaves, AcV5–CLF was immunoaffinity‐purified, and the presence of the co‐precipitating proteins was analysed on protein immunoblots. HA–MSI1 was co‐precipitated with AcV5–CLF (FIG-REF). This result demonstrates that MSI1 and CLF can associate into a common complex in vivo. Together, these experiments establish that MSI1, EMF2 and FIE, together with SWN or CLF, constitute the EMF complex. In contrast, there is no strong evidence for functions of MSI2–5 in the EMF complex. To establish whether MSI1 is required for the function of the EMF complex, we determined the expression levels of EMF target genes in an MSI1 co‐suppression line (msi1–cs) in which the MSI1 protein level is reduced to less than 10% (CITATION). We compared the transcriptional profiles of msi1–cs (CITATION) and emf2 plants (CITATION) and found that transcriptional changes were strongly and significantly correlated between plants of the two genotypes (Pearson correlation=0.44, P<2.2e−16) (FIG-REF). Note that this strong correlation was observed despite considerable differences in experimental conditions (rosette leaves of 23‐day‐old msi1–cs plants that retain ∼5% MSI1 protein and 7‐day‐old emf2‐null mutant seedlings). The global similarity of transcriptional changes caused by reduced MSI1 or EMF2 loss of function strongly suggests that the biochemical interaction of MSI1 and EMF2 is of functional relevance. The data also confirm that redundancy among MSI1 homologues is limited and that MSI2–5 can only partially, if at all, substitute MSI1 in the EMF complex. To confirm the microarray data on deregulation of EMF target genes in msi1–cs plants, we tested the expression of some known PcG target genes in leaves (CITATION) by RT–qPCR using independent samples (FIG-REF). Ten of 11 tested PcG target genes were upregulated in msi1–cs plants, demonstrating that the presence of MSI1 in the EMF complex is necessary for the repression of many EMF target genes. Next, we used ChIP to test whether MSI1 binds to EMF target genes. The results show an enrichment of MSI1 at the previously described EMF target genes PISTILLATA (PI), AG and MADS AFFECTING FLOWERING 5(MAF5) (FIG-REF), demonstrating that MSI1 is recruited to at least some EMF target genes. Because PRC2 complexes trimethylate H3K27 in target chromatin, we tested whether MSI1 is needed for this PRC2 function. We found that global H3K27me3 levels were reduced to 70% in msi1–cs plants (FIG-REF, Supplementary Figure S1). Similarly, ChIP results also showed that H3K27me3 is highly reduced in EMF target genes in msi1–cs plants (FIG-REF). Notably, At3g28007 has no increase in expression in msi1–cs but has reduced H3K27me3 demonstrating that loss of H3K27me3 is not a consequence of increased transcription. Together, these results demonstrate that MSI1 is required for full PRC2 function and normal H3K27me3 levels in vivo. Because the MSI1‐like subunit was found to be dispensable for PRC2 catalytic activity in vitro (CITATION), our findings suggest that MSI1 functions in PRC2 regulation or targeting in vivo. [[FIGURE]] MSI1 is a subunit of the VRN–PHD complex (Table II and CITATION), which represses FLC after vernalization, but the function of MSI1 in this complex has not been addressed so far. The msi1–cs line showed MSI1 protein reduction and developmental alterations only at the rosette stage (CITATION) and thus did not appear suitable for testing MSI1 function in seedling vernalization. In contrast, MSI1 anti‐sense (msi1–as) lines contain about 30–50% of wild‐type MSI1 levels in seedlings and exhibit developmental alterations at seedling and rosette stages (CITATION). To test whether MSI1 also functions in the vernalization response, we analysed flowering time and FLC expression with and without vernalization in msi1–as and wild‐type plants. Vernalized wild‐type plants flowered earlier than non‐vernalized plants, forming only about half the number of rosette leaves (FIG-REF). Consistent with the phenotype, FLC transcript levels were strongly reduced in vernalized wild‐type plants compared with non‐vernalized controls (FIG-REF). In contrast, vernalized msi1–as plants flowered similarly to non‐vernalized msi1–as plants (FIG-REF), revealing that a normal vernalization response requires MSI1. Non‐vernalized msi1–as plants flowered earlier than non‐vernalized wild type, possibly because of a partial loss of repression of floral activators that are under PcG protein control. Without vernalization, FLC levels were increased in msi1–as (FIG-REF). Under such conditions, FLC is controlled by the EMF complex (CITATION), and the increased FLC expression in msi1–as is consistent with the requirement for MSI1 in EMF complex function. More importantly, vernalization was less effective in reducing FLC transcript levels in msi1–as than in wild‐type plants (11‐fold versus 22‐fold reduction) (FIG-REF). The reduced efficiency of vernalization treatments to repress FLC and accelerate flowering in msi1–as demonstrates that MSI1 is required for a normal vernalization response. [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether regulation of FLC by MSI1 is direct. In ChIP experiments, MSI1 was enriched at FLC both without and after vernalization (FIG-REF), demonstrating that MSI1 is indeed recruited to FLC. The core VRN complex is present at the FLC locus already without vernalization (CITATION) and EMF2 also regulates FLC (CITATION), suggesting that MSI1 can bind to FLC as part of the EMF complex and as part of the VRN complex. Together, these results demonstrate that MSI1 is needed for VRN complex function and a normal vernalization response. The cross‐linked immunoaffinity purification of MSI1–GFP identified LHP1 among the interacting proteins (Table III). To confirm the interaction between MSI1 and LHP1 in vivo, we performed a co‐immunoprecipitation (CoIP) assay. Immunoblot analyses revealed co‐immunoprecipitation of MSI1 with LHP1, demonstrating that LHP1 and MSI1 indeed coexist in shared complex(es) in vivo (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether MSI1 interacts directly with LHP1, we carried out an in vitro pull‐down assay. HA–GAL4–AD‐tagged MSI1, HA–GAL4–AD‐tagged MSI4 and myc‐tagged LHP1 were expressed in yeast, and extracts were used for immunoprecipitation with anti‐myc antibodies. Immunoblot analyses revealed the presence of MSI1 but not of MSI4 or the negative control in the bound fraction (FIG-REF). The binding of MSI1 and not of MSI4 to LHP1 in the absence of any other plant proteins strongly suggests that the MSI1–LHP1 interaction is specific and direct. LHP1 fulfils PRC1‐like functions in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and we found that LHP1 interacts with MSI1. Thus, it appeared possible that LHP1 interacts with plant PRC2 complexes via MSI1. To test whether LHP1 also interacts with EMF2 in vivo, we performed a CoIP assay using EMF2–FLAG LHP1–GFP double‐transgenic plants. Immunoblot analyses clearly showed that EMF2 co‐precipitated with LHP1, demonstrating that both proteins coexist in shared complex(es) in vivo (FIG-REF). Because LHP1 interacted with both MSI1 and EMF2, which are present together in the EMF complex, we conclude that LHP1 interacts with the EMF complex in vivo. This suggests that in plants PRC1‐ and PRC2‐like functions are closely integrated. Our finding that MSI1 connects LHP1 to plant PRC2 complexes extends previous findings of LHP1 functions in the plant PcG system (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). At the same time, our results raise the question regarding the extent to which LHP1 may function independently of the PcG system. LHP1 is a homologue of HP1 and SWI6, which in metazoa and fission yeast, respectively, function in heterochromatic gene silencing (CITATION) and can bind to heterochromatic H3K9me2 in vitro. To search for potential PcG‐unrelated functions of LHP1, we profiled transcriptional changes in lhp1 and clf mutants. One concern with transcript profiling experiments in lhp1, clf and other mutants with pleiotropic phenotypes is the confounding effect of secondary transcriptional changes. Because the pleiotropic phenotype of clf is mostly suppressed under short‐day photoperiods (SD) (CITATION), the experiment was carried out in SD. The pleiotropic phenotype of lhp1 is less repressed by SD but greatly depends on FT (CITATION). Therefore, we used a lhp1 ft double mutant. Together, we expect that these conditions will considerably reduce secondary transcriptional changes. The transcriptional changes between lhp1 and clf were strongly and significantly correlated (Pearson correlation=0.725, P=2.2e−16) (FIG-REF). There was no considerable subpopulation of genes that was miss‐expressed in lhp1 and not changed in clf. The amplitude of changes, however, was frequently higher in lhp1 than in clf (cf. the deviation from the diagonal in FIG-REF). Linear regression suggested that fold changes were on average two‐fold larger in lhp1 than in clf, which was probably caused by partial redundancy between CLF and SWN. A Venn diagram representation of the most strongly upregulated genes in emf2, clf, msi1–cs and lhp1 plants shows considerable overlap (Supplementary Figure S2). Differences between gene sets are probably caused by false negatives, differences in plant material and assay conditions and by partial redundancy of some of the genes. It is interesting to note that only a subset of PcG target genes lost repression in the mutants. It was possible that only genes that have the potential to be expressed in leaves were detected as upregulated in lhp1 or clf rosette leaves. We tested this hypothesis using gene‐specific leaf expression potentials that were based on all wild‐type leaf samples in the developmental AtGenExpress data resource, including cotyledons, rosette and cauline leaves of diverse age or harvesting time (CITATION). The leaf expression potential for a gene is the maximal expression of this gene observed in any of the wild‐type leaf samples. Genes with low leaf expression potentials are inactive throughout wild‐type leaf development, while genes with high leaf expression potentials are active at certain stages of leaf development. Leaf expression potentials of PcG target genes were considerably smaller than the genome average, demonstrating that many PcG target genes were not expressed in the leaf samples (FIG-REF). Similarly, the PcG target genes that were not upregulated in lhp1 or clf had generally low expression potentials, demonstrating that most of them were not expressed in any leaf sample. In contrast, the PcG target genes that were strongly upregulated in lhp1 or clf had a very high expression potential, demonstrating that they were highly expressed in some leaf samples (FIG-REF). This result is in agreement with the proposal that PcG targets become upregulated in PcG mutants only in tissues in which they have a potential to be expressed (CITATION). Together, our data establish that the main function of LHP1 in gene regulation is related to the PcG system and that there is no evidence of a PcG‐independent function of LHP1. During the S‐phase, new histones are incorporated into replicating chromatin, and existing histone modifications are transiently diluted. Cells have various mechanisms for re‐establishing local histone modifications during replication. We sought to determine whether LHP1 could recruit plant PRC2 complexes to PcG target genes and contribute to the re‐establishment of H3K27me3 in dividing cells. In order to establish the high number of dividing cells needed to test this hypothesis, lateral root outgrowth was induced by the synthetic auxin 2,4‐Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid in wild‐type and lhp1 seedlings (Supplementary Figure S3). ChIP with anti‐H3 and anti‐H3K27me3 antibodies was performed using roots. In wild type, H3K27me3 signals were detected at known PcG protein target genes including SEP3 and FLC but not at the negative control gene ACT7. Consistent with our hypothesis of a contribution of LHP1 to the establishment of H3K27me3 in dividing cells, H3K27me3 of the PcG target genes was significantly lower in lhp1 than in wild type (FIG-REF). Thus, the discovered physical link between LHP1 and PRC2 is highly relevant for the function of the plant PcG protein system.
!~MM~! Wild‐type plants were Arabidopsis thaliana accession Columbia (Col). Transgenic plants were generated by floral dip with Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV 3101) (CITATION). To generate constructs for tagged EMF2, CLF, MSI1 and MSI4 proteins, cDNAs were cloned into vectors pEarleyGate 201, 202 and 204 (CITATION), which were transformed into Col plants or infiltrated into leaves of N. benthamiana as previously described (CITATION). The MSI1–GFP, LHP1–GFP, MSI1 co‐suppression (msi1–cs) and MSI1 anti‐sense (msi1–as) plant lines have been described earlier (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The lhp1‐6, clf1‐29 and ft‐10 alleles were used (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). EMF2–FLAG, LHP1–GFP and lhp1‐6 ft‐10 plants were obtained by crossing. Plant growth conditions were as described previously (CITATION). Vernalization treatments and measuring of flowering time were carried out as described earlier (CITATION; CITATION). For induction of root cell division, seedlings were grown vertically on ½ MS, 1% sucrose and 0.8% agar plates under constant light conditions. After 5 days, seedlings were transferred to plates supplemented with 750 nM 2,4‐dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4‐D) and grown for an additional 3 days. Roots were separated from the shoots and used for ChIP and gene expression analyses. For immunoprecipitation (IP) followed by mass spectrometry 10 g of plant material was ground in a mortar with liquid nitrogen; for co‐immunoprecipitation (CoIP) 2–4 g of plant material was used. Soluble proteins were extracted in 2 volumes of extraction buffer (10 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Igepal, 1% Triton ‐00x and protease inhibitors (Roche, Basel, Switzerland)) at 4°C for 30 min with gentle rocking. For protein cross‐linking 2 mM DTSSP was added to the extraction buffer, in which Tris was replaced with 20 mM HEPES, and the extracts were incubated at 4°C for 2 h. To stop cross‐linking, 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5) was added, followed by incubation at 4°C for 20 min. To extract non‐soluble proteins, NaCl was added to the final concentration of 2.5 M, followed by incubation at 4°C for 1 h. The centrifuged supernatant (4500 g) was filtered through four layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA, USA) and desalted using PD‐10 desalting columns (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK). The centrifuged (4500 g) supernatant was pre‐cleared with 30 μl of pre‐washed protein A sepharose beads (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK) at 4°C for 20 min with gentle rocking. An input aliquot was taken from the pre‐cleared centrifuged (2000 × g) supernatant before the rest of the supernatant was subjected to IP with 50 μl of bead‐coupled antibodies at 4°C for 2 h with gentle rocking. The precipitate was washed six times in extraction buffer and eluted in 2 × Laemmli buffer. The following antibodies were used for IP: anti‐FLAG magnetic beads (Sigma, #M8823), anti‐GFP Trap_A (Chromotek, Planegg‐Martinsried, Germany), anti‐HA antibodies (Sigma, #H3663) and anti‐AcV5 antibodies (Sigma, #A2980) coupled to protein A agarose beads and anti‐myc beads (Sigma, #A7470). For protein immunoblots, proteins were separated by 12% SDS–PAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane (Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany) by semi‐dry blotting in 25 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.3), 150 mM Glycin and 10% methanol for 1 h at 15 V. Enhanced chemiluminescence detection was performed as recommended by the manufacturer (GE Healthcare). The following antibodies and dilutions were used for immunoblotting: anti‐HA (Sigma, #H3663), 1:1000; anti‐V5 (Sigma, #V8012), 1:1000; anti‐MSI1 (CITATION), 1:1000; anti‐FLAG (Sigma, #A8592), 1:1000; anti‐H3K27me3 (Millipore, Billerica, Massachusetts, USA, #07‐449), 1:1000; and anti‐H3 (Abcam, Cambridge, USA, # ab24834), 1:1000. Approximately 2 g of frozen rosette leaves were ground to a fine powder and homogenized for 15 min in histone extraction buffer (0.25 M sucrose, 1 mM CaCl2, 15 mM NaCl, 60 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 15 mM PIPES, pH 7, 0.5% Triton X‐100 including protease inhibitors (Roche) and 10 mM sodium butyrate). Extracts were cleared by centrifugation and pellets were dissolved in 0.2 N H2SO4. Total histones were precipitated with 33% Trichloroacetic acid, washed twice with acetone containing 0.1% HCl and once with acetone, briefly air‐dried and dissolved in 1 x Laemmli buffer. The histone extract was run on 15% SDS–PAGE gels and transferred onto PVDF membranes (Roth). Proteins were probed with rabbit anti‐H3K27me3 mixed with mouse anti‐H3 (Abcam) antibodies. Goat anti‐mouse IgG‐IRDye 800CW (LI‐COR, #926‐32210) and goat anti‐rabbit IgG‐IRDye 680LT (LI‐COR, #926‐68021) were used as secondary antibodies. Membranes were scanned using an Odyssey Fc Imager (LI‐COR Biosciences, Bad Homburg, Germany), and band intensities were quantified using Odyssey quantification software. After IP, the proteins were separated by 12% SDS–PAGE, and in‐gel digestion was performed (CITATION). Mass spectrometry measurements were recorded on an LTQ Orbitrap‐XL (Thermo Finnigan, Vernon Hills, IL, USA). MS/MS spectra were searched with MASCOT (Matrix Science, London, UK) against the Arabidopsis TAIR9 protein database with a concatenated decoy database (download on 19 June 2009) supplemented with contaminants. The search parameters were as follows: requirement for tryptic ends, one missed cleavage allowed, peptide tolerance±5 p.p.m., MS/MS tolerance±0.6 Da. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine was set as fixed modification, and oxidation of methionine was set as a variable modification. The processed data were imported into Scaffold (Proteome Software). The cutoff for data analyses was set to a minimum confidence of 90% for protein identification and to a minimum confidence of 95% for peptide identification. The spectrum false‐discovery rate was calculated by dividing the number of decoy database spectrum assignments by the number of spectrum assignments. The false‐positive rate was below 1% in all measured experiments. Proteins identified with at least two unique peptides in at least two replicates but never in control samples were taken into account. The MSI1 and MSI4 cDNAs were cloned into vector pGADT7 (Clonetech, Mountain View, CA); the LHP1 cDNA was cloned into vector pFLAG–attR (CITATION). Proteins were expressed in S. cerevisiae strain BY4741 (Brachmann, 1998 #11297). If a constitutive promoter was used (pGADT7), cells were grown until OD600=1.1; they were then harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. If an inducible promoter was used (pFLAG–attR, pYES2), protein expression was induced at OD600=1.1 by 2% galactose; the cells were then harvested after 6 h and frozen in liquid nitrogen. After re‐suspension in extraction buffer (20 mM HEPES pH 7.6, 10% glycerol, 200 mM potassium acetate, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, protease inhibitors (Roche), 1 mM PMSF), cells were disrupted using a French Press (20 K, 1200, p.s.i., three times). The input sample was taken from the centrifuged supernatant (10 min at 4000 g followed by 10 min at 14.000 g); the rest of the supernatant was used for immunoprecipitation as described above. ChIP assays were performed as described before (CITATION) using the LowCell# ChIP kit (Diagenode, Liège, Belgium) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Antibodies used in ChIP were anti‐GFP (Molecular Probes Invitrogen, #A11122), IgG (Sigma‐Aldrich, #I5006), anti‐histone H3 (Millipore, #07690) and anti‐H3K27me3 (Millipore, #07690). qPCR with gene‐specific primers (Supplementary Table. S3) was performed using a MyiQ system (BIO‐RAD, Hercules, CA, USA) and Sybr Green master mix (Fermentas) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA extraction and RT–qPCR were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION) with some modifications: qPCR with gene‐specific primers (Supplementary Table S4) was performed using a MyiQ system and either the Sybr Green master mix (Fermentas) or the Fast Start Universal Probe Master (Rox) reagent and the Universal Probe Library set (Roche Diagnostics, Rotkreuz, Switzerland) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Plants were grown for 48 days in short‐day photoperiods. Leaf number 6 was harvested at ZT (zeitgeber time)=7 h, and RNA was isolated, labelled using the GeneChip WT Sense Target Labeling Assay and hybridized to Affymetrix AGRONOMICS1 Arabidopsis tiling arrays as described (CITATION; CITATION). Data were normalized and analysed as described (CITATION; CITATION), based on TAIR10 annotations (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Leaf‐specific expression potentials were estimated as the maximum expression measured in any of the leaf samples from the AtGenExpress reference set for development (CITATION). PcG targets in leaves were taken from CITATION. Gene expression data for msi1–cs and emf2 plants were taken from CITATION and CITATION. The microarray raw data from this publication were submitted to the ArrayExpress (www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress) database (accession number E‐MTAB‐1412). The protein interactions from this publication have been submitted to the IMEx (CITATION) consortium through IntAct (CITATION) and assigned the identifier IM‐18782. Processed microarray data are enclosed as Supplementary Table S5.
