!~ABS~! The leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1) is the main ligand-perceiving receptor for brassinosteroids (BRs) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Binding of BRs to the ectodomain of plasma membrane (PM)-located BRI1 receptors initiates an intracellular signal transduction cascade that influences various aspects of plant growth and development. Even though the major components of BR signaling have been revealed and the PM was identified as the main site of BRI1 signaling activity, the very first steps of signal transmission are still elusive. Recently, it was shown that the initiation of BR signal transduction requires the interaction of BRI1 with its SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR-LIKE KINASE (SERK) coreceptors. In addition, the resolved structure of the BRI1 ectodomain suggested that BRI1-ASSOCIATED KINASE1 [BAK1](SERK3) may constitute a component of the ligand-perceiving receptor complex. Therefore, we investigated the spatial correlation between BRI1 and BAK1(SERK3) in the natural habitat of both leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases using comparative colocalization analysis and fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy. We show that activation of BR signaling by exogenous ligand application resulted in both elevated colocalization between BRI1 and BAK1(SERK3) and an about 50% increase of receptor heterooligomerization in the PM of live Arabidopsis root epidermal cells. However, large populations of BRI1 and BAK1(SERK3) colocalized independently of BRs. Moreover, we could visualize that approximately 7% of the BRI1 PM pool constitutively heterooligomerizes with BAK1(SERK3) in live root cells. We propose that only small populations of PM-located BRI1 and BAK1(SERK3) receptors participate in active BR signaling and that the initiation of downstream signal transduction involves preassembled BRI1-BAK1(SERK3) heterooligomers.
!~RES~! To investigate the BR-dependent spatial correlation between BRI1 and BAK1(SERK3) receptors at the subcellular level in Arabidopsis roots, first a comparative colocalization analysis of immunolabeled tissue was performed. For simplicity, we will refer to SERK3 hereafter without reference to its BAK1 designation. In Figure 1, confocal images of a double transgenic Arabidopsis line expressing BRI1-GFP (hereafter referred to as BRI1-GFP1; CITATION) and SERK3-hemagglutinin (HA) using their native promoters are shown. Immunocytochemical labeling was performed with primary antibodies against the GFP and HA epitopes visualized with Alexa488- and Alexa568-conjugated secondary antibodies, respectively. Under regular growth conditions, BRI1 and SERK3 mainly colocalized at the PM and to a lesser extent in endomembrane compartments (Fig. 1, A–C; Table I). The observed endosomal structures for BRI1-GFP most likely represent Golgi stacks, trans-Golgi network/early endosome compartments, and multivesicular bodies, as reported previously using live-cell imaging (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and electron microscopy (CITATION). In contrast, SERK3-HA showed a more diffuse localization pattern, and additionally, large endomembrane compartments, which could represent tonoplast membranes, were visible (Fig. 1B). Colocalization analysis based on modified Manders colocalizaton coefficients, which indicate the fractional overlap of fluorescence intensities in the separate imaging channels, revealed that approximately one-half of the PM BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA receptor populations colocalize (Table I). For the intracellular endomembrane compartments, Manders colocalization coefficients of about 50% and 30% for BRI1 and SERK3, respectively, were determined (Table I). [[FIGURE]] Comparative colocalization analysis is shown for immunolabeled BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA in roots of 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings coexpressing BRI-GFP1 and SERK3-HA. BRZ (5 µm) was added to the growth medium 3 d after germination. BL (1 µm) and BFA (50 µm) were applied for 1 h. BRI1-GFP was visualized using rabbit anti-YFP/goat anti-rabbit-Alexa488 antibodies, and SERK3-HA was labeled using mouse anti-HA/goat anti-mouse-Alexa568 antibodies. Colocalizing fractions are presented as modified Manders colocalization coefficients ± se. Additionally, Pearson correlation coefficients ± se are given as independent measure for colocalization. N represents the number of regions of interest analyzed. To test whether ligand depletion reduces the spatial correlation of the two LRR-RLKs, seedlings were cultured for 2 d in the presence of 5 µm BRZ prior to imaging. BRZ is a BR biosynthesis inhibitor and reduces the amount of endogenous BRs by approximately 95% (CITATION). BES1 phosphorylation was used as a readout to confirm that BRZ treatment indeed abolishes BR signaling (Supplemental Fig. S1). Depletion of endogenous BRs did not affect the localization pattern of BRI1 and SERK3 or the fluorescence overlap at the PM. However, a minor decrease in the colocalization of both receptors was revealed in the intracellular space (Fig. 1, D–F; Table I). Subsequently, BR signaling was restored by exogenous application of 24-epi-brassinolide (BL) to BRZ-pretreated roots. In line with the findings of CITATION, no obvious effect on the localization of BRI1-GFP was observed (Fig. 1G). As shown in Figure 1H, also the distribution of SERK3-HA seemed unaffected. However, colocalization analysis indicated increased fluorescence overlap for both PM and intracellular BRI1 and SERK3 populations. The Manders colocalization coefficients for PM colocalization and intracellularly located SERK3 even exceeded the initial values obtained for untreated roots (Table I). Thus, it seems that the BR signaling status influences the spatial correlation between BRI1 and SERK3. This finding was further investigated by treatment of roots with the endosomal trafficking inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA), a compound reported to result in enhanced BR signaling in the absence of exogenously added ligand (CITATION; CITATION). The results displayed in Figure 1L clearly show that BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA were sequestered into the large BFA compartments. Significantly increased colocalization was observed at the PM (Fig. 1, D–F and J–L), the presumed site of active BR signaling as suggested by CITATION. In general, BRI1-GFP distribution was more drastically affected by BFA than that of SERK3-HA. Still, most of the BFA compartments contained colocalizing BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA receptors (Fig. 1L). Simultaneous application of BFA and BL additionally increased the amount of colocalizing BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA receptors in BFA compartments, as shown in Figure 1, M to O, and Table I. To answer whether the partial colocalization observed for BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA in the same BFA compartments reflects a general phenomenon, a comparative analysis was performed. The results presented in Supplemental Figure S2 revealed that BRI1-GFP, SERK1-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), and SERK2-YFP are highly sensitive to BFA, while SERK3-GFP was only weakly visible in BFA compartments. This suggests that receptors operative in different pathways can employ the same ADP ribosylation factor (ARF)-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF)-mediated pathway, whereas receptors that act in the same pathway may be sorted differentially. Taken together, our comparative colocalization analysis of immunolabeled Arabidopsis roots indicates that a substantial number of BRI1 and SERK3 receptors colocalize independently of BR ligands. Activation of BR signaling resulted in significantly elevated colocalizing receptor populations, in accordance with the proposed recruitment models for BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomerization. Colocalization is a good indicator for the involvement of proteins in the same biological process. However, due to the limited spatial resolution of confocal imaging, colocalization analysis cannot answer whether two proteins of interest also physically interact, a requirement for many signaling events. Therefore, FLIM was employed to detect Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the Alexa dye-conjugated secondary antibodies used above. The results of the FRET-FLIM experiments are presented in Figure 2 and show that within BFA compartments, BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA were indeed in close physical proximity, as indicated by a reduction of the Alexa488 fluorescence lifetime from 1.7 to 1.3 ns. Interaction of both receptors was observed in a subset of the intracellular membrane compartments (Fig. 2B, arrowheads), in line with the colocalization data (Fig. 1, L and O). Most likely, these intracellular BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers originate from endocytosed PM receptor complexes. Further validation of the FRET-FLIM data using antibody labeling is described in Supplemental Figure S3. Unfortunately, the detection of FRET was restricted to BFA compartments that contained sufficient BRI1-GFP and SERK3-HA receptors. Using the immunocytochemical approach, it was not possible to obtain reliable photon counts for statistical fluorescence lifetime analysis at the PM. [[FIGURE]] To complement the results obtained from immunolabeling, also live-cell imaging was applied. In Figure 3, A to C, confocal images of a double transgenic line expressing pSERK3::SERK3-mCherry and BRI1-GFP (hereafter referred to as BRI1-GFP2; CITATION) are shown. As expected, both receptors localized to the PM. For BRI1-GFP, vesicular structures similar to those seen in Figure 1 were observed (Fig. 3A). SERK3-mCherry again showed a more diffuse intracellular localization pattern (Figs. 1B and 3B), and localization to the tonoplast was revealed (Fig. 3E; Supplemental Fig. S4). [[FIGURE]] Similar to the findings obtained by immunolabeling, BRI1 and SERK3 colocalized highly at the PM and less so in endomembrane compartments (Fig. 3C), as indicated by the Manders colocalization coefficients summarized in Table II. In the presence of endogenous BRs, about 73% of BRI1-GFP and 75% of SERK3-mCherry receptors colocalized at the PM, whereas the intracellular colocalization comprised around 35% and 55% of BRI1-GFP and SERK3-mCherry molecules, respectively. Depletion of endogenous BRs using BRZ had no observable effect on the localization and hardly affected the colocalization of both receptors (Fig. 3, D–F; Table II). Only the intracellular colocalization of BRI1-GFP with SERK3-mCherry slightly increased. Activation of BR signaling by incubating BRZ-treated seedlings in 1 µm BL prior to imaging resulted in significantly increased colocalization of the two LRR-RLKs both at the PM and intracellularly (Fig. 3, G–I; Table II), similar to the findings presented in Table I. Comparative colocalization analysis is shown for live roots of 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings coexpressing BRI1-GFP2 and SERK3-mCherry. BRZ (5 µm) was added to the growth medium 3 d after germination. For ligand stimulation, 1 µm BL was applied for 1 h. Colocalizing fractions of BRI1-GFP and SERK3-mCherry are presented as modified Manders colocalization coefficients ± se. Additionally, Pearson correlation coefficients ± se are given. N represents the number of regions of interest analyzed. For plasma membrane analysis, one region of interest included at least three plasma membrane sections. Increased PM colocalization was also observed in response to BFA, known to stabilize BRI1 at the PM (CITATION). As shown in Table II, Manders colocalization coefficients for BRI1 and SERK3 were elevated to 89% and 86%, respectively, and also an increased Pearson correlation coefficient was obtained. In contrast, intracellular colocalization of SERK3 with BRI1 decreased (Table II). Colocalization of both receptors in BFA compartments showed similar values to those obtained for immunolabeled roots and was significantly increased by simultaneous application of BFA and BL (Table II). In comparison with BFA-treated samples, additional BL application did not change PM and intracellular colocalization of BRI1 and SERK3. To summarize, quantitative microscopic analysis in live cells confirmed that a large population of BRI1 and SERK3 receptors colocalizes independently of BR signaling activity. A smaller yet distinct minority of both receptors is affected by the BR signaling status, indicated by increased colocalization upon BL and BFA application. To investigate whether and how BR signaling influences the heterooligomerization between BRI1 and SERK3, roots of the double transgenic BRI1-GFP2/SERK3-mCherry line were examined using in planta FRET-FLIM (Fig. 4). The images presented in Figure 4, A to D, were derived from seedlings heterozygous for BRI1-GFP to have a more physiological level of the tagged BRI1 receptor while remaining homozygous for SERK3-mCherry. After BL stimulation of BRZ-cultured seedlings, the amount of BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers found after coimmunoprecipitation was significantly increased (CITATION, CITATION) and amounted to about 5% of the total amount of BRI1 and about 10% of SERK3 receptors (CITATION; Supplemental Note S2C). A fluorescence lifetime image of BRI1-GFP in the presence of SERK3-mCherry after BRZ and subsequent BL treatment is shown in Figure 4A. The color code clearly indicates a nonuniform distribution of GFP fluorescence lifetimes. Remarkably, small and restricted areas in the PM with a strongly reduced donor fluorescence lifetime became visible (Fig. 4A, arrowheads). The observed strong heterogeneity in the distribution of interacting receptors indicates that a minority of PM-located BRI1-GFP and SERK3-mCherry receptors are in direct physical proximity. A numerical evaluation of the observed fluorescence lifetime values and interaction pixels (IPS) is presented in Table III. Corrected IPS values represent the percentage of pixels with strongly reduced GFP fluorescence lifetimes and are taken as estimates of the percentage of BRI1 interacting with SERK3. We estimate that about 10% of BRI1 can be seen as heterooligomers with SERK3 in the PM of BL-stimulated epidermal root cells. This corresponds to an average of 263 BRI1-GFP receptors per confocal section (for calculations, see Supplemental Note S2, A and B). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative analysis is shown for FLIM measurements performed in planta on roots of 5-d-old BRI1-GFP2- and BRI1-GFP2/SERK3-mCherry-expressing seedlings using PIN2-GFP in combination with SERK3-mCherry as a negative control. Endogenous BRs were depleted either by PPC (100 nm) or BRZ (5 µm) treatment. BL was used throughout the experiments (1 µm, 1 h). The τ values given represent mean donor fluorescence lifetimes of the GFP moiety of BRI1-GFP or PIN2-GFP in ps ± se. The values given for IPS represent the mean percentage of pixels with strongly reduced BRI-GFP fluorescence lifetimes ± se. The corrected IPS values were obtained by subtracting the IPS values of the negative control from the IPS values determined for BRZ + BL-treated BRI1-GFP2 + SERK3-mCherry. N represents the number of analyzed fluorescence lifetime images. To determine whether the depletion of endogenous BRs abolishes BRI1-SERK3 interactions, BRZ-treated seedlings were imaged. The resulting fluorescence lifetime image is shown in Figure 4B. Unexpectedly, similar regions with a strong reduction in fluorescence lifetime were observed, suggesting that BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers are preformed in the absence of ligand. Numerical analysis showed a reduction in corrected IPS of approximately one-third, suggesting that at strongly reduced ligand concentrations, still about 6.7% of BRI1-GFP receptors or 176 per confocal section are in complex with SERK3. This is far more than the single BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomer that was expected based on the possibly residual BL concentration after BRZ treatment (Supplemental Note S2A). Consequently, the majority of BRI1-GFP/SERK3-mCherry heterooligomers observed in BRZ-treated roots are formed in the absence of ligand. Control experiments using BRI1-GFP donor fluorescence lifetime only (Fig. 4, C and D) revealed small local variations in the lifetime of the fluorophore (Table III). To provide an independent estimate of the amount of BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers, the more potent BR biosynthesis inhibitor PPC (CITATION) was employed. The results show that at a much lower concentration of PPC compared with BRZ, seedling growth is more strongly affected (Supplemental Fig. S5). However, the number of physically interacting BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers remains the same (Table III). To provide an independent biological control, PIN2-GFP (CITATION) was employed alone or in combination with SERK3-mCherry using seedlings cultured in BRZ or treated with BRZ and BL (Fig. 4, E–H). In none of these images were regions in the PM showing a strong reduction in fluorescence lifetime observed. To validate our observation that, in planta, FRET-FLIM faithfully reports the number of interacting receptors, a number of additional control experiments were performed. The first was to use BFA-treated roots, where, inside the large BFA compartments, a similar reduction in fluorescence lifetimes was observed to that obtained for the immunolabeling approach (Supplemental Fig. S6). In comparison with wild-type SERK3, the SERK3 mutant elongated (elg; CITATION) showed an increased association with BRI1 (CITATION). Indeed, a slight increase in the association between BRI1-super cyan fluorescent protein (sCFP) and ELG-super yellow fluorescent protein (sYFP) was observed using FLIM in a transient expression system (Supplemental Fig. S7; Supplemental Table S1). Finally, the time course of BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomerization was determined. Treatment of BRZ-cultured double transgenic roots with exogenous BL led to a time-dependent rise of BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers from an uncorrected IPS of about 7% to 16% after 1 h (Fig. 4I). Surprisingly, a significant increase was only detected after a lag period (Supplemental Table S2), indicating that the amount of BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers is almost stable during the first one-half-hour of signaling. In summary, we conclude that a significant subpopulation of BRI1 and SERK3 form heterogeneously distributed BR signaling units within the PM. We propose that these units carry out the initial signaling activity, later followed by an increase in BRI1-SERK3 heterooligomers, employing a maximum of 10% of BRI1 present in root epidermal cells.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants (ecotype Columbia [Col-0]) were used as the wild type. Seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa) supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc (Sigma) and 0.8% (w/v) Daishin agar (Duchefa). Plants were grown at 22°C under fluorescent light, with 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiods, unless otherwise specified. Transgenic seedlings were selected on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 50 mg L−1 kanamycin (KAN; Duchefa), 15 mg L−1 phosphinothricin (PPT; Duchefa), or 40 mg L−1 hygromycin (Sigma). Col-0 plants expressing BRI1 (AT4G39400) fused to GFP under the control of its native promoter, here referred to as BRI1-GFP1, were provided by N. Geldner (CITATION). The BRI1-GFP line overexpressing the transgene about 3-fold, here referred to as BRI1-GFP2, was provided by J. Chory (CITATION). Genotyping was performed by PCR using primer combination BRI1-kdF (5′-AGCACGCAAAACTGCGGATTAGCGA-3′) and M5GFP-R (5′-TTTGATGCCGTTCTTTTGCTTGTC-3′; CITATION). The PIN2::PIN2-GFP-expressing line (CITATION) was provided by C. Schwechheimer, and genotyping was performed by PCR using primer combination PIN2 forward (5′-TGTATCCACCGACCCTAAAGTTTC-3′) and M5GFP-R (5′-TTTGATGCCGTTCTTTTGCTTGTC-3′). Plants that were subjected to fixation and immunolabeling were grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc and 0.8% (w/v) Daishin agar. After 3 d, seedlings were transferred to 24-well plates (Greiner Bio One) into 1 mL of one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc containing 5 µm BRZ (TCI Europe) or medium containing the same volume of 80% (v/v) ethanol, which was used to dissolve BRZ, and grown for an additional 2 d. The entire open reading frame of SERK3 complementary DNA was amplified by reverse transcription-PCR from Arabidopsis Col-0. The forward and reverse primers were engineered with an NcoI site to replace the SERK3 stop codon and allow an in-frame fusion with HA. The primers used were S3-NcoF (5′-CCATGGAACGAAGATTAATGATCCCTTGC-3′) and S3-NcoR (5′-CCATGGATCTTGGACCCGAGGGGTATTCG-3′). To prepare the SERK3 promoter constructs, a 2-kb region upstream of the start codon of the SERK3 gene was amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA and cloned in the pGEM-T vector (Promega). The primers used were P3F (5′-GTCGTCATATTGAGAAGTCG-3′) and P3-NcoR (5′-CCATGGTTTATCCTCAAGAGATTAAAAACAAACCC-3′). The pGEM-T cloned promoters were inserted via SalI-NcoI in a modified pBluescript SK+ vector containing the HA gene inserted as an NcoI-BamHI fragment in front of the tNOS terminator. The entire open reading frame of SERK3 as described above was then inserted as an NcoI fragment. The resulting full cassette was subsequently subcloned into the 1390 pCambia (Cambia) vector via SalI-SmaI. This construct was verified by sequencing and was electroporated in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 containing a disarmed C58 Ti plasmid (CITATION). The construct was transformed into the BRI1-GFP1 background by the floral dipping method (CITATION). The transgenic lines were selected on hygromycin, and genotyping for SERK3-HA was performed by PCR using primer combination SERK3-forward (5′-AGCTGATGGTACTTTAGTGG-3′) and tNOS (5′-AAGACCGGCAACAGGATTC-3′). For generating the translational fusion of SERK3 and mCherry, the SERK3 genomic DNA fragment was amplified by reverse transcription-PCR from bacterial artificial chromosome clone F17M5, after which the fragment was cloned into a pENTR-D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). To ensure a fusion with the mCherry tag, the reversed primer did not contain the stop codon at the end of the SERK3 sequence. The 2-kb SERK3 promoter fragment was PCR amplified from bacterial artificial chromosome clone F17M5 and transferred to a pGEM-T Easy vector. The cloned promoter fragment was inserted via XhoI-SACII into a modified Gateway vector containing a pENTR p4p1 site. The pENTR-D-TOPO vector containing the SERK3 promoter construct, the pENTRp4p1 vector containing SERK3, and the pENTRp2p3 vector containing the mCherry coding sequence were cloned into the destination vector containing a pENTRp4p1 site, using a multisite Gateway reaction (Invitrogen). The entry clones and the destination vector were kindly provided by Dr. R. Geurts from the Department of Molecular Biology, Wageningen University and Research Centre. The destination vector contains PPT resistance for in planta selection. The pSERK3::SERK3-mCherry construct was electroporated in A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 containing a disarmed C58 Ti plasmid (CITATION). The construct was transformed into the Col-0 wild-type background by the floral dipping method (CITATION). Homozygous plants for SERK3-mCherry were crossed into the BRI1-GFP2 background (CITATION). The transgenic lines were selected on PPT and KAN, and genotyping for SERK3-mCherry was performed by PCR using primer combination SERK3-forward (5′-AGCTGATGGTACTTTAGTGG-3′) and mCherry-reverse (5′-CTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATG-3′). To generate the heterozygous BRI1-GFP2- and homozygous SERK3-mCherry-expressing plants, SERK3-mCherry was crossed with BRI1-GFP2. Plants were selected on KAN and PPT, and genotyping was performed by PCR using the primer combinations described above. Double transgenic PIN2-GFP/SERK3-mCherry plants were obtained by crossing homozygous PIN2-GFP (CITATION) and SERK3-mCherry plants. Plants were selected on KAN and PPT, and the presence of the transgenes was confirmed by PCR using the primer combinations described above. The double transgenic SERK3-mCherry/WAVE9-Cerulean line was generated by crossing, and seedlings of the F1 generation were used for imaging. For immunoprecipitation of BES1-GFP, seedlings were grown vertically on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1.2% (w/v) agar. BRZ was added to the growth medium 6 d after germination in a final concentration of 5 µm. For BL stimulation, 1 µm BL was added to 7-d-old seedlings 1 h before extraction. Seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen. Proteins were extracted by adding 1 mL of extraction buffer containing 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1% (w/v) Triton X-100, and 1% (w/v) protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) per g of ground roots. Samples were centrifuged 10 min at 4°C and 13,000 rpm. The supernatants were adjusted to equal amounts of total protein and incubated 4 h at 4°C with 10 µL of GFP-Trap coupled to agarose beads (Miltenyi Biotec). After incubation, the beads were washed three times with the extraction buffer, after which the samples were boiled for 5 min in SDS loading buffer. Proteins were separated with a 10% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gel and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Millipore) by wet electroblotting (Mini-Protean II system; Bio-Rad). The BES1-GFP was probed using anti-GFP-horseradish peroxidase antibody (Miltenyi Biotec). The horseradish peroxidase was detected with the ECL Plus detection kit (GE Healthcare). For the immunolabeling experiments, 5-d-old seedlings were used. Treatments and fixation were performed on 24-well plates used for cultivation. Prior to treatments, seedlings were washed once with 1 mL of one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa) supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc (Sigma). For stimulation experiments, seedlings were incubated for 1 h in 1 mL of one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc containing 50 µm cycloheximide (Sigma) and the respective agents. Final concentrations used were 1 µm BL and 50 µm BFA (Sigma). The stock solutions were 4 mm BL dissolved in 80% (v/v) ethanol and 50 mm BFA dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO; Merck). After treatment, seedlings were washed once with phosphate-buffered saline buffer, pH 6.9. Subsequently, seedlings were fixed, placed on SuperFrost object slides (Menzel-Gläser), and immunolabeled (CITATION). Antibodies used were rabbit anti-GFP (generated by Eurogentec), mouse anti-HA, goat anti-rabbit-Alexa488, and goat anti-mouse-Alexa568 (all Invitrogen). Seedlings were incubated in 1 mL of one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc containing 1 µm BL (Sigma), 50 µm BFA (Sigma), 5 µm BRZ (TCI Europe), and 100 nm PPC (Fluka). The seedlings were incubated with inhibitors under regular growth conditions as described above. PPC treatment at a concentration over 100 nm or for more then 2 d resulted in dead seedlings no longer suitable for FRET-FLIM analysis. The stock solutions used were 4 mm BL in 80% (v/v) ethanol, 50 mm BFA in DMSO, 23 mm BRZ in 80% (v/v) ethanol, and 1 mm PPC in 100% DMSO. Optical sections of immunostained roots were acquired using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510; Carl Zeiss). Alexa488 was excited using an argon laser (488 nm), and fluorescence was detected via a band-pass filter (505–530 nm). For double-stained samples, excitation light of 488 nm was used for goat anti-rabbit-Alexa488 and a helium/neon diode laser (543 nm) was used for goat anti-mouse-Alexa568, and fluorescence was detected using band-pass filters of 505 to 530 nm and 550 to 615 nm, respectively. A 40× water-immersion objective with a numeric aperture of 1.2 was used for imaging. The pinhole setting was 1 Airy unit, which yielded a theoretical thickness (full width at one-half maximum) of 1 µm. Images and data captures were analyzed with Zeiss LSM510 software (version 4.2). Live root imaging was performed on a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP5 X system). GFP was excited using an argon laser (488 nm), and fluorescence emission was detected from 500 to 540 nm. mCherry was excited using a white light continuum laser selecting the 580-nm laser line. Fluorescence was detected from 590 to 640 nm. Images were captured using a 63× water-immersion objective with a numeric aperture of 1.2 and a pinhole set to 1 Airy unit. Confocal images were analyzed with FIJI software (ImageJA 1.45j; Max Planck Society). Colocalization analysis of images acquired by confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed using the software FIJI (ImageJA 1.45j; Max Planck Society). The plugin “Coloc 2” allows the quantitative determination of colocalizing fluorescence intensities acquired in different channels using previous methods (CITATION; CITATION). The obtained modified Manders coefficients were used as the fraction of colocalization for both channels (i.e. colocalization of BRI1-GFP with SERK3-HA or SERK3-mCherry and vice versa). Besides modified Manders coefficients, Pearson correlation coefficients were obtained as a second measure for colocalization. FRET is a photophysical process in which the excited state energy from a fluorescent donor molecule is transferred nonradiatively to an acceptor molecule. FRET is based on weak dipole-dipole coupling and, therefore, can only occur at molecular distances. There are several methods to quantify and visualize FRET, of which donor fluorescence lifetime imaging is the most straightforward, since a fluorescence lifetime is a concentration-independent property. However, fluorescence lifetimes are sensitive to the environment, which is the basis for FRET-FLIM. FRET-FLIM experiments consist of measuring donor fluorescence lifetimes (here Alexa488) in the absence (τD) and presence (τDA) of acceptor molecules (here Alexa568), resulting in spatially resolved color-coded lifetime images. Observation of a decreased donor fluorescence lifetime is used as a readout for molecular interactions (CITATION). A Leica TCS SP5 X system equipped with a 63×/1.20 numeric aperture water-immersion objective lens was used for confocal/FLIM imaging. Confocal and FLIM images were acquired by exciting the respective fluorophores GFP/mCherry and Alexa488/568 using a white light laser (or super continuum laser). This laser emits a continuous spectrum from 470 to 670 nm, within which any individual excitation wavelength in 1-nm increments can be selected. For excitation of sCFP3A and sYFP2 (CITATION), a diode laser (440 nm) or the 514-nm line of an argon laser was used, respectively. Confocal imaging was performed using internal filter-free spectral photomultiplier tube detectors. For GFP/Alexa488 detection, a spectral window of 500 to 550 nm was selected, whereas mCherry/Alexa568 was detected using 590 to 640 nm. Detection of sCFP3A and sYFP2 was accomplished using a spectral window of 450 to 500/520 to 560 nm. Confocal images were acquired with 512 × 512 pixels. For FRET- FLIM experiments, a pulsed diode laser (440 nm) or white light laser (470 nm) at a pulsed frequency of 40 MHz was used. For recording of donor fluorescence, an external fiber output was connected to the Leica SP5 X scan head and coupled to a Hamamatsu HPM-100-40 Hybrid detector (Becker & Hickl), which has a time resolution of 120 ps. Selection of sCFP3A and GFP/Alexa488 fluorescence was performed using band-pass filters 470 to 500 and 505 to 545 nm, respectively. Images with a frame size of 64 × 64 pixels were acquired with acquisition times of up to 90 s. From the fluorescence intensity images, the decay curves were calculated per pixel and fitted with either a mono- or double-exponential decay model using the SPCImage software (Becker & Hickl; version 3.2.3.0). The monoexponential model function was applied for donor samples with only GFP/Alexa488 or sCFP3A present. For samples containing two fluorophores, Alexa488/Alexa568, GFP/mCherry, or sCFP3A/sYFP2, a double-exponential model function was used without fixing any parameter. To calculate the fraction of IPS, fluorescence intensity and the corresponding fluorescence lifetime data for each pixel were exported from SPCImage and imported into an Excel spreadsheet (Microsoft Excel for Mac 2011; version 14.1.3). The quantification of interacting pixels was set according to the following criteria. The photon counts per pixel must be at least 1,200 in total using a binning factor of 1, ensuring a statistically required peak value (±200 counts) in the respective photon histogram used for fluorescence lifetime calculation. To ensure a reliable fit, only pixels with χ2 < 2.5 were selected. Additionally, fluorescence lifetimes below 1.6 ns and above 2.6 ns were excluded from the calculation of interacting fractions. The reason for setting these values was to avoid false positive or negative interactions. The total amount of pixels for each fluorescence intensity image was set after applying these above-mentioned criteria, resulting almost exclusively in pixels representing PM or adjacent areas. Subsequently, the average donor fluorescence lifetimes were determined. The individual minimum of a set of measurements was used to calculate the interaction threshold, which usually corresponded to a FRET efficiency of about 13%. Only pixels with fluorescence lifetimes below the interaction threshold were collected as IPS. The ratio between the IPS and the total amount of selected pixels represented the value of IPS. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transfected as described previously (CITATION). Only the isolation procedure was adapted according to CITATION. To obtain the Asn-122-to-Asp substitution in the coding sequence of SERK3 for generating an ELG coding sequence, site-directed mutagenesis using PCR with primer combination elg-forward (5′-GAATTGGTGAGCTTGAATCTTTACTTGAAC-3′) and elg-reverse (5′-GTTCAAGTAAAGATTCAAGCTCACCAATTC-3′) was performed. Introduction of the base change was confirmed by sequencing. Statistical analysis was performed using Excel software (Microsoft Excel for Mac 2011; version 14.1.3). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: BRI1 (AT4G39400), PIN2 (AT5G57090), and SERK3/BAK1 (AT4G22430). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. BRZ abolishes BES1-GFP dephosphorylation. Supplemental Figure S2. SERK family members respond differently toward BFA. Supplemental Figure S3. Immunocytochemical FRET-FLIM discriminates interacting and noninteracting proteins in BFA compartments. Supplemental Figure S4. SERK3 localizes to the tonoplast. Supplemental Figure S5. Phenotypical comparison of PPC and BRZ treatments. Supplemental Figure S6. BRI1 and SERK3 interact in BFA compartments in planta. Supplemental Figure S7. ELG shows a stronger decrease in overall fluorescence lifetime with BRI1 than SERK3. Supplemental Table S1. Fluorescence lifetime analysis of the BRI1-sCFP interaction with SERK3-sYFP and ELG-sYFP. Supplemental Table S2. Fluorescence lifetime analysis of time-course FLIM. Supplemental Note S1. Approximation of the number of BRI1-GFP and SERK3-mCherry molecules per pixel in a FLIM image. Supplemental Note S2. Approximation of BRI1-GFP ligand occupancy after BRZ treatment and exogenous BL application as well as the amount of BAK1 receptor pulled down by BRI1.
