!~ABS~! In the reference dicot plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the PP2C family of P-protein phosphatases includes the products of 80 genes that have been separated into ten multi-protein clades plus six singletons. Clade D includes the products of nine genes distributed among three chromosomes (APD1, At3g12620; APD2, At3g17090; APD3, At3g51370; APD4, At3g55050; APD5, At4g33920; APD6, At4g38520; APD7, At5g02760; APD8, At5g06750; and APD9, At5g66080). As part of a functional genomics analysis of protein phosphorylation, we retrieved expression data from public databases and determined the subcellular protein localization of the members of clade D. While the nine proteins have been grouped together based upon primary sequence alignments, we observed no obvious common patterns in expression or localization. We found chimera with the GFP associated with the nucleus, plasma membrane, the endomembrane system, and mitochondria in transgenic plants.
!~RES~! Based upon the TAIR convention used for AtPP2C clade B (http://www.arabidopsis.org/browse/genefamily/PP2C.jsp), we have designated members of the Arabidopsis Pp2c clade D (APD)1-9: (APD1 [At3g12620], APD2 [At3g17090], APD3 [At3g51370], APD4 [At3g55050], APD5 [At4g33920], APD6 [At4g38520], APD7 [At5g02760], APD8 [At5g06750], and APD9 [At5g66080]. The results from bioinformatic analyses indicate a family of related proteins from 370 to 400 amino acids in length with variable N-termini (of 22 to 44 residues) preceding a PP2C domain. Sequence identity among clade members ranges between 50 and 75 %. In order to gain some insight into the functional relevance of members of clade D, we queried the eFP meta resource for absolute levels of gene expression in seeds, primary roots, rosette leaves, shoots, cauline leaves, flowers, pollen, and siliques. The level of APD1 expression in pollen was much higher than the levels of any other member of clade D in any organ (Table 1). The overall expression patterns of APD1, APD2, and APD4, with the highest expression in pollen, were quite similar. In contrast, expression of APD3 and APD8 was highest in seeds and lowest in pollen. Levels of the APD7 transcript were lowest among clade D members and were virtually restricted to leaves (both rosette and cauline). The APD5 transcript was highest in primary roots, while PPD6 transcript levels varied little among organs, with the exception of pollen where they were both very low. The APD9 transcript levels were lowest among members of clade D and displayed little variation among the organs examined.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Knowledge of the cellular location of a PP2C is a necessary prelude to understanding biological function. It appears, however, that examples of PP2C can be found almost anywhere within the cell. In addition to the typical cytoplasmic and nuclear localization (e.g., Wenk and Mieskes CITATION), there are reports of various species of PP2C localized to the cytoskeleton (Grothe et al. CITATION), mitochondria (Feng et al. CITATION), chloroplasts (Samol et al. CITATION), and the secretory pathway including the ER (Saito et al. CITATION), Golgi apparatus (Zhang and Gan CITATION), and plasma membrane (Tsugama et al. CITATION). Results from in silico localization can provide some insight into in vivo protein localization and are useful in terms of experimental design. We employed four different algorithms to predict the localization of A. thaliana clade D PP2C proteins (Fig. 1). We considered a simple agreement between three of the four predictions as a consensus: APD1 (mitochondrial (m), m4), APD2 (secretory pathway (s), nucleus (n), no call (x), s2/n/x), APD3 (m2/s/x), APD4 (m3/x), APD5 (m2/n2), APD6 (cytoplasm (c), c/n/m/x), APD7 (m2/s/x), APD8 (m3/s), and APD9 (plastidial (p), s2/p/x). There is a consensus mitochondrial localization predicted for APD1, 4, and 8. It is also noteworthy that all nine sequences include a potential transmembrane helix with an adjacent site for addition of a palmitoyl-membrane anchor, as well as two potential bipartite NLS motifs. [[FIGURE]]  None of the in silico results takes into account the presentation of targeting information (e.g., Suo and Miernyk CITATION) or potential protein interactions. In the case of the PP1 P-protein phosphatases, it is well established that primary sequence targeting information is subservient to sequence information within non-catalytic “targeting subunits” (Cohen CITATION; Kimb et al. CITATION). Considering the overall degree of uncertainty about subcellular localization, we undertook analysis of clade D PP2C-GFP chimera in A. thaliana seedlings. Using laser scanning confocal microscopy of translational fusions between GFP and the PP2C clade D members (PPD:GFP), we examined root tips from transformed A. thaliana seedlings. The use of fluorescent protein-chimera has become the standard in contemporary analyses of subcellular protein localization (Zimmer CITATION) and, in most instances, yielded clear data for the A. thaliana clade D PP2C proteins. When GFP was expressed alone as a control, as expected (Suo and Miernyk CITATION), the fluorescent signal was nucleocytoplasmic (Fig. 2a). Unfortunately, the green fluorescent signal from APD1:GFP was very weak, and it was impossible to accurately image despite examining many independent transformants. Attempts to use transient expression of APD1:GFP in A. thaliana protoplasts were also unsuccessful. We were able to obtain a fluorescent signal from transformed S. cerevisiae (Fig. S1), in what appears to be the mitochondrial reticulum (Hermann and Shaw CITATION), and have used this information to tentatively assign a mitochondrial location in plants as well. [[FIGURE]]  The APD2:GFP (Fig. 2b), APD3:GFP (Fig. 2c), and APD6:GFP chimera were located in a thin layer at the periphery of the root tip cells, a pattern characteristic of plasma membrane-associated proteins (Dammann et al. CITATION; Tian et al. CITATION). To exclude the possibility that these proteins are actually localized in the periplasm or extracellular matrix, the root cells were plasmolyzed prior to examination. In Fig. 2b, c, f, the lower left panels are merged fluorescence and DIC light-microscopy images. The lower right panels are merged images of plasmolyzed cells, with the arrows indicating the extracellular matrix. It is clear that the fluorescent signal is associated with the plasma membrane. The GFP signal from root tips expressing either APD4:GFP (Fig. 2d) or APD8:GFP (Fig. 2h) indicates that these chimera were located in small fluorescent intracellular bodies and at the cell periphery. In both instances, the fluorescence signal appears to be membrane-associated. Our images have a punctate appearance that resembles the patterns seen with Golgi, TGN, or early endosome-localized proteins (Takano et al. CITATION; Illéš et al. CITATION; Robert et al. CITATION). The fluorescent signal from root tips expressing APD5:GFP had a clear co-localization with the MitoTracker signal (Fig. 2e). Analysis of root tips from seedlings stably transformed to express the APD7:GFP chimera showed a fluorescence pattern typical for nucleocytoplasmic localization (Fig. 2g). Staining with DAPI confirmed that APD7:GFP was located mainly in the nucleus (data not shown). The APD9:GFP chimera appeared to be associated with both the plasma membrane and the endomembrane system. Images of root tips revealed the chimera associated with the plasma membrane as indicated by the thin layer at the cell periphery (Fig. 2i). A closer examination of these cells showed that APD9:GFP is additionally associated with cellular membranes, including the tonoplast as indicated by co-localization of the GFP signal with the membranes observed in the DCI image (Fig. 2i, inset panels). The overall disparity between predicted and experimentally determined subcellular localization results (Fig. 1) emphasized the necessity of the latter strategy. There have been a few previous reports describing the subcellular localization of A. thaliana PP2C proteins. The ABI1 (Zhang et al. CITATION), PP2CA (Antoni et al. CITATION), and SAG113 (Zhang and Gan CITATION) proteins, each a member of clade A, have been reported to be cytoplasmic, nuclear, and associated with the endomembrane system. The AthPP2C5/AP2C3 and AP2C4 proteins (Brock et al. CITATION), both a member of clade B, have been reported to be nucleocytoplasmic. In contrast, AP2C1 and AP2C2, also members of clade B, have been described as plastidial (Umbrasaite et al. CITATION). The clade C enzymes POL and PLL1 are plasma membrane-located (Gagne and Clark CITATION), and the singleton, PPH1, is plastidial (Shapiguzov et al. CITATION). In many instances, treatment with ABA induced migration to the nucleus, suggesting a potential role in signal transduction rather than metabolic regulation. The assignment of nine specific proteins to group D was based upon prior phylogenetic analyses plus amino acid sequence alignment (Kerk et al. CITATION; Schweighofer et al. CITATION). Despite appearing to comprise a relatively uniform group, we found substantial differences in expression and subcellular localization. The possibility of functional coordination among specific kinases and phosphatases in a regulatory network has been suggested (Dammann et al. CITATION; Umbrasaite et al. CITATION; Fujita et al. CITATION), and our results indicate a degree of specialization that supports this suggestion. The exceptionally high expression levels of ADP1, 2, and 4 in pollen, along with protein localization in the mitochondria and secretory pathway, are a clear manifestation of specialization. While results from proteomic analyses of A. thaliana pollen have been published (Holmes-Davis et al. CITATION; Grobei et al. CITATION; Ge et al. CITATION), the occurrence of P-proteins has not yet been described. There are, however, descriptions of the P-proteome in pollen of other plants (Chen et al. CITATION; Fíla et al. CITATION), and based upon these results, it would be possible to predict at least some of A. thaliana pollen P-proteins. It would be informative to test these P-proteins as potential clients for ADP1, 2, and 4. It remains to be seen how results from analysis of the remaining A. thaliana PP2C clades will compare and contrast to the results of our study of clade D.
!~MM~!  A. thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 was used as source of RNA for cloning, protoplast preparation, and transformation. In silico localization employed four different algorithms: PSORT (Nakai and Horton CITATION), TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION), YLoc (Briesemeister et al. CITATION), and Predotar (Small et al. CITATION). Transmembrane helices were predicted using the TMpred (Hofmann and Stoffel CITATION) and OCTOPUS (Rath et al. CITATION) algorithms. Sites of potential protein palmitoylation were determined using the method of Shi et al. (CITATION). The eFP meta-analyzer resource (Winter et al. CITATION) was used to study gene expression. The data presented are absolute transcript levels. The PP2C sequences were amplified by reverse transcriptase–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using total RNA isolated from 5-week-old leaves as the template. The RNA was isolated using the RNeasy plant kit (Qiagen); RT-PCR was performed with the one-step RT-PCR kit (Qiagen), and the products were cloned into the pCR-TOPO TA cloning vector (Invitrogen). For each PP2C, a specific set of primers was used; the forward primer included a unique restriction enzyme site followed by the first 24–27 bases of the coding sequence; the reverse primer included a distinct restriction enzyme site followed by the last 24–27 bases of the reverse complement of the coding sequence. The green fluorescent protein (GFP) reading frame was amplified from pJAM214 (Suo and Miernyk CITATION) and inserted along with the CMV 35S double enhancer promoter followed by the translational enhancer from the 5′-leader of tobacco mosaic virus and the 3′-untranslated region derived from the nopaline synthase gene (Tiwari et al. CITATION) into pUC18, yielding pUC-35S-GFP-Nos. Next, the PP2C coding sequence, minus the native stop codon, was inserted in-frame into the 35S-GFP-Nos cassette, yielding a pUC-35S-PP2C-GFP-Nos construct. These constructs were used for transient expression in A. thaliana protoplasts. For stable transformation of A. thaliana, the promoter-PP2C-GFP-terminator cassettes from the transient-expression constructs were excised and then cloned into the binary vector pPZP221 (Hajdukiewicz et al. CITATION). All PCR reactions were performed using the native Pfu polymerase (Stratagene), and all constructs were verified by diagnostic restriction digestion and DNA sequencing. All chimeric proteins are C-terminal fusions with the GFP. N-terminal fusions were not tested because most of the in silico results indicate that the protein sequences include N-terminal targeting information. The A. thaliana plants were transformed by floral dip (Clough and Bent CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 carrying the pPZP221(GFP) or any of the pPZP221(PP2C-GFP) constructs. Gentamycin-resistant plants were selected using a Leica stereoscope equipped for epifluorescence analysis (Deerfield, IL). The T2 and T3 seedlings were grown on 1/2-strength MS medium (Gibco BRL) solidified with agar. Three- to 5-day-old vertically positioned seedlings were used for fluorescence screening. For expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, PP2C-GFP (or GFP alone) was amplified from the corresponding pUC-35S-PP2C-GFP (or GFP alone)-Nos construct and then cloned into pYES2 (Invitrogen) so that the start codon is the first codon of the PP2C-GFP (or GFP) reading frame. Yeast transformation and fusion protein expression were accomplished using the lithium acetate method (Hoyos et al. CITATION). Transformants were selected on minus Ura “drop-out” medium supplemented with 2 % glucose. Yeast were grown overnight in minus Ura medium containing 2 % glucose and then transferred to minus Ura medium plus 2 % galactose. Cells were taken for microscopy 6 h after induction. For transient expression of PP2C-GFP in protoplasts, 3-week-old A. thaliana leaves were used for protoplast isolation. The protoplasts were transfected with 10 μg of plasmid DNA using PEG-mediated transformation (Wang et al. CITATION). After transformation, the protoplast were suspended in 0.5 M mannitol, 20 mM KCl, and 4 mM MES-NaOH, pH 5.7, and then kept for 16 to 18 h at room temperature in the dark before microscopy. Seedlings were grown on 1/2-strength MS medium (Gibco, BRL) plates and vertically positioned, and 3- to 5-day-old seedlings were used for fluorescence microscopy. For mitochondrial staining, samples were incubated for 15 min in a freshly prepared solution of 500 μM MitoTracker Deep Red (Molecular Probes), followed by three 10-min washes. Nuclei were stained for 5 min in a freshly made solution of 2 μg/mL DAPI and then rinsed before microscopy. For plasmolysis, roots were incubated for 10 min in 600 mM mannitol on a glass slide with cover slip. Microscopy was carried out using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta NLO 2-Photon (Zeiss, Germany) confocal instrument. Excitation and emission wavelengths were 488 and 650–710 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence, 488 and 500–550 nm for GFP, and 633 and 650–710 nm for MitoTracker. A Chameleon two-photon laser system was used for DAPI excitation, and the emission wavelength was 435–485 nm. The LSM Examiner (Zeiss) and Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems) programs were used to process the images. As biological replicates, five independently transformed plant lines were isolated for each APD:GFP construct. In all cases, the localization was identical among the five replicate lines.
