!~ABS~! • AtATL78 is an Arabidopsis plasma-membrane-localized RING E3 ubiquitin ligase. • AtATL78 was up-regulated by cold stress and, in contrast, down-regulated by drought. • Suppression of AtATL78 increases tolerance to cold stress. • Suppression of AtATL78 decreases tolerance to drought stress. • AtATL78 plays opposing roles in cold and drought stress responses in Arabidopsis . AtATL78 is an Arabidopsis plasma-membrane-localized RING E3 ubiquitin ligase. AtATL78 was up-regulated by cold stress and, in contrast, down-regulated by drought. Suppression of AtATL78 increases tolerance to cold stress. Suppression of AtATL78 decreases tolerance to drought stress. AtATL78 plays opposing roles in cold and drought stress responses in Arabidopsis .
!~RES~! Recent studies suggest that RING E3s participate in the response to abiotic stress as either positive or negative regulators in Arabidopsis CITATION . To further elucidate the cellular roles of RING E3s in stress responses, their expression profiles were investigated using publicly accessible in silico data ( http://www.genevestigator.com ). Numerous RING E3s were induced or suppressed by abiotic stresses. ATL78 ( Arabidopsis Tóxicos en Levadura 78 ) (GenBank accession number NM_103813) was strongly induced by low-temperature treatment. To confirm the cold-induction of AtATL78 , RT-PCR analysis was conducted. AtATL78 was markedly induced in 10-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings after 3 and 6 h incubation at 4 °C ( CITATION A). The magnitude of cold-induction of AtATL78 was comparable to that of the known marker gene, RD29A . By contrast, the steady-state levels of AtATL78 were reduced in response to drought (0.5–2 h), 300 mM NaCl, and 100 μM ABA ( CITATION A). These results raised the possibility of differential expression of AtATL78 in response to cold and drought stress. A promoter (1.5 kbp up-stream region) GUS assay showed that basal levels of expression of AtATL78 were detected in both leaf and root tissues, including guard cells and root tip, under normal growth conditions ( CITATION B). AtATL78 promoter activity increased in response to cold treatment, but decreased in response to drought, salt, and ABA treatments in leaves and roots ( CITATION B). However, the expression level of AtATL78 remained unchanged in the root tip after stress treatments. Overall, the expression studies suggest that AtATL78 is differentially controlled at the transcriptional level by cold and drought stress in Arabidopsis . The deduced AtATL78 protein consists of 219 amino-acid residues with a molecular- mass of 24.3 kDa ( CITATION ). As found in other ATL family members, AtATL78 contains a single C 3 H 2 C 3 -type RING motif, putative trans-membrane domain, basic amino-acids rich region, conserved GLD tripeptide sequence, and C-terminal diverged region ( CITATION ). To test whether AtATL78 possesses an E3 Ub-ligase activity, the MBP-AtATL78 fusion construct was expressed in Escherichia coli . The full-length MBP-AtATL78 was insoluble in bacterial cells, probably due to an N-terminal trans-membrane domain. MBP-AtATL78 78-219 , in which the trans-membrane domain was removed, was efficiently expressed as a soluble protein and used for an in vitro self-ubiquitination assay. MBP-AtATL78 78-219 displayed in vitro Ub-ligase activity in the presence of Ub, ATP, E1, and E2, which was detected by anti-MBP and anti-Ub antibodies ( CITATION A). By contrast, MBP-AtATL78 C158S , in which the conserved Cys residue in the RING motif was replaced by Ser, failed to exhibit Ub-ligase activity. To examine the subcellular localization of AtATL78, the 35S:AtATL78-sGFP construct was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves, and expressed protein was visualized with a fluorescence microscope. The AtATL78-sGFP protein was barely detected in tobacco cells, probably due to self-ubiquitination. However, AtATL78-sGFPΔRING, in which the RING motif was deleted, was strongly detected in the plasma-membrane ( CITATION B). This localization pattern overlapped with FM4-64 staining of the plasma-membrane. The AtATL78-sGFPΔTM protein, which lacks the trans-membrane domain, was detected in the cytosolic fractions ( CITATION B). Transient expression patterns of AtATL78-sGFP proteins in tobacco cells were examined by immuno-blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody. The results showed that full-length AtATL78-sGFP was undetectable in tobacco cells ( CITATION C). By contrast, strong expression of AtATL78-sGFPΔRING protein was detected. A weak, but clearly detectable expression of AtATL78-sGFPΔTM was also observed ( CITATION C). These results raised the possibility that self-ubiquitination and degradation of AtATL78 may be correlated with its plasma-membrane localization. Overall, it seems highly likely that AtATL78 is a plasma-membrane-localized RING E3 Ub-ligase. However, since the biochemical and localization studies were done using the deleted versions of recombinant AtATL87, we cannot rule out the possibility that full-length AtATL78 has different E3 Ub ligase activity and subcellular localization pattern in Arabidopsis . To examine the role of AtATL78 with respect to cold and drought stress responses, a loss-of-function atatl78 mutant line was obtained. The atatl78 knock-out mutant (Salk_058308) contained double T-DNA insertions after nucleotide 167 in an antisense orientation ( CITATION ). Genotyping PCR identified homozygous atatl78 progeny (left panel in CITATION ). Full-length and partial AtATL78 transcripts were undetectable by RT-PCR, indicating that atatl78 is a null mutant (right panel in CITATION ). Because only a single allele of atatl78 was available, RNAi -mediated knock-down transgenic lines ( 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 ) were generated. The amount of AtATL78 transcript was markedly down-regulated in independent T3 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 lines #1, #2, #3, and #4 ( CITATION ). These knock-out and knock-down transgenic lines were used for phenotypic analyses. Light-grown, 18-day-old wild-type, atatl78 knock-out, and 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 knock-down (lines #1 and #2) plants were subjected to cold stress (0 °C for 1 h →−4 °C for 1 h →−10 °C for 4.5 h) CITATION ( CITATION A). The survival of cold-stressed plants was observed one week after transfer from low-temperature to normal (22 °C) conditions. The results showed that 9.2% (9 of 98) of wild-type plants survived after cold stress, whereas 45.2% (42 of 93) of atatl78 mutant progeny were healthy and resumed growth after treatment with low-temperature stress ( CITATION B). The survival rates of RNAi knock-down lines were intermediate [38.3% (31 of 81) for line #1 and 28.8% (19 of 66) for line #2] between those of wild-type and knock-out plants. Consistently, electrolyte leakage assays revealed that the atatl78 leaves displayed significantly lower electrolyte leakage compared with that of wild-type leaves after low-temperature treatments (−3, −6, −9, and −12 °C) ( CITATION C). The degree of electrolyte leakage of RNAi lines was intermediate between that of wild-type and knock-out plants. The RD29A , RD29B , RD20 , and P5CS1 genes are induced by cold stress in Arabidopsis CITATION . Cold stress induction of these genes was clearly up-regulated in atatl78 mutant and, to a lesser extent, in RNAi plants compared with that in wild-type plants ( CITATION D). These results indicate that suppression of AtATL78 resulted in increased tolerance to cold stress. ROS are crucial participants in plant stress responses CITATION . To determine the level of H 2 O 2 production in response to low temperature, control and cold-stressed leaves from wild-type, atatl78 , and 35S:RNAi plants were treated with DAB, which interacts with H 2 O 2 and produces a dark-brown color CITATION . Higher amounts of cold-induced H 2 O 2 were detected in leaves of atatl78 mutant and RNAi knock-down rosette leaves compared with that in wild-type leaves ( CITATION E), suggesting that AtATL78 negatively participates in cold-induced H 2 O 2 production. Overall, the phenotypic analyses of atatl78 and 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 plants indicate that the expression level of AtATL78 is inversely correlated with cold stress tolerance. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that AtATL78 is a negative factor in the cold stress response in Arabidopsis . The phenotypes of atatl78 and 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 plants were examined in the drought stress response. Wild-type, knock-out, and knock-down plants were grown for 18 days under normal growth conditions. They were grown for another 11 days without irrigation, and then irrigated normally. The survival rates of drought-stressed plants were determined 5 days after the resumption of irrigation. The results showed that 85.3% (104 of 122) of wild-type plants survived after drought stress followed by re-watering ( CITATION A). However, 23.9% (32 of 134) of the atatl78 mutants were able to resume growth after re-watering. The survival rates of 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 lines in response to dehydration and re-watering were intermediate [34.6% (27 of 78) for line #1 and 28.6% (22 of 77) for line #2] between those of wild-type and knock-out plants ( CITATION A). Therefore, suppression of AtATL78 resulted in a severely decreased tolerance to drought stress. To corroborate the results for the drought stress response, the CRWL experiment was conducted. Mature rosette leaves were detached from 18-day-old wild type, mutant, and RNAi plants, placed in open-lid Petri dishes, and incubated for 0–6 h at room temperature. Reduction of the leaf fresh weights was monitored. The results demonstrated that wild-type leaves retained their water content more efficiently than mutant or RNAi leaves during dehydration. The fresh weight of wild-type leaves was gradually reduced to approximately 76%, 65%, and 54% of the initial weight after 100, 200, and 300 min incubation, respectively ( CITATION B). During the same incubation period, the fresh weight of both mutant and RNAi leaves decreased to approximately 68%, 55%, and 46%, respectively. The drought-induced marker genes, including RD20 , RD22 , RD29A , RD29B , and RAB18 , were all down-regulated in atatl78 and 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 plants compared with those in wild-type plant in response to drought stress ( CITATION C). Furthermore, the level of drought-induced H 2 O 2 production was significantly lower in mutant and RNAi leaves compared with that in wild-type leaves ( CITATION D). These results suggest that AtATL78 is a positive factor in water stress response in Arabidopsis . Overall, the suppression of AtATL78 exhibited opposite effects in response to cold and drought stress: it increased tolerance to cold stress ( CITATION ), but decreased tolerance to drought stress ( CITATION ). To further substantiate the opposite roles of AtATL78 in cold and drought stress responses, AtATL78-sGFP- overexpressing transgenic plants ( 35S:AtATL78-sGFP ) were generated. Several independent T3 transgenic progeny were identified by RT-PCR and immuno-blot analyses ( CITATION ). In contrast to the responses to stress in knock-out and knock-down lines, the AtATL78 -overexpressing plants were highly susceptible to relatively mild cold stress (0 °C for 1 h →−4 °C for 1 h →−10 °C for 2 h). After cold treatment, their survival rates were 24.1–27.0%, depending on the independent lines, whereas survival of wild-type plants was 55.5% ( CITATION ). By contrast, 35S:AtATL78-sGFP plants displayed increased tolerance to drought. After severe dehydration stress (no irrigation for 15 days), 42.2% of wild-type plants survived, whereas 61.9–83.1% of overexpressing lines were still alive and continued to grow ( CITATION ). Therefore, the phenotypes of AtATL78 -overexpressing transgenic plants were inversely related to those of mutant and RNAi plants in response to cold and drought stress: ectopic expression of AtATL78 resulted in decreased tolerance to low temperature and increased tolerance to water deficit. These results suggested that AtATL78, an Arabidopsis plasma-membrane-localized RING E3 Ub-ligase, is a negative regulator of cold response and a positive regulator of drought response. This indicates opposite roles of AtATL78 in cold and drought stress responses. We speculate that AtATL78 is involved in the negative cross-talk between cold and drought responses. The cellular mechanism by which AtATL78 participates in the converse regulation of cold and drought responses is currently unknown. Additional experiments are required to identify the target protein(s) of AtATL78 and to decipher the links between cold and drought stress responses mediated by AtATL78.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) plants were grown in a growth chamber at 22 °C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). Light-grown, 10-day-old seedlings and 2-week-old plants were subjected to cold (0–6 h at 4 °C), drought (0–2 h), 300 mM NaCl (0–2 h), and 100 μM ABA (0–2 h) treatments as described previously CITATION . The atatl78 (SALK_058308) T-DNA insertion mutant allele was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center ( http://www.arabidopsis.org ). Isolation of total RNA from stress-treated tissues was performed using an RNA extraction kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Intron Biotechnology). cDNA synthesis, RT-PCR, and real-time qRT-PCR analyses were conducted as described previously CITATION . The primers used in this study are listed in CITATION . The AtATL78-promoter-GUS construct was transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis by the floral-dip method CITATION , and T3 homozygous transgenic plants were obtained. Transgenic plants were subjected to GUS staining as described previously CITATION . In vitro self-ubiquitination assay of MBP-AtATL78 protein (500 ng) was conducted according to the established protocol CITATION . Immuno-blot analysis was conducted using anti-MBP antibody (New England BioLabs) and anti-Ub antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) as described by Ryu et al. CITATION . AtATL78-sGFPΔRING and AtATL78-sGFPΔTM proteins were transiently expressed in 3-week-old tobacco ( Nicotiana benthamiana ) leaves using the Agrobacterium -mediated infiltration method CITATION . Leaf tissues were stained with 15 μM FM4-64 (Invitrogen Molecular Probes) for 1–2 h to visualize the plasma-membrane. Expressed proteins were detected using a fluorescence microscope (BX51, Olympus). Images were acquired with a 1600 charge-coupled device (CCD) camera (PCO) and analyzed using the Image Pro Plus program. 35S:RNAi-AtATL78 and 35S:AtATL78-sGFP transgenic plants were generated according to the method of Ryu et al. CITATION . Homozygous T3 lines were obtained and used for phenotypic analysis. The freezing tolerance assay was carried out as described previously CITATION with modifications. Light-grown, 18-day-old plants were subjected to a temperature drop (0 °C for 1 h → −4 °C for 1 h → −10 °C for 2 or 4.5 h) and then transferred to 22 °C. The survival of stress-treated plants was monitored after one week. The electrolyte leakage assay was conducted as described previously CITATION . Analyses of the drought stress response, ROS production, and cut rosette water loss (CRWL) rates were conducted as described previously CITATION .
