!~ABS~! Phytochromes are red (R)/far‐red (FR) photoreceptors that are central to the regulation of plant growth and development. Although it is well known that photoactivated phytochromes are translocated into the nucleus where they interact with a variety of nuclear proteins and ultimately regulate genome‐wide transcription, the mechanisms by which these photoreceptors function are not completely understood. In an effort to enhance our understanding of phytochrome‐mediated light signaling networks, we attempted to identify novel proteins interacting with phytochrome B (phyB). Using affinity purification in Arabidopsis phyB overexpressor, coupled with mass spectrometry analysis, 16 proteins that interact with phyB in vivo were identified. Interactions between phyB and six putative phyB‐interacting proteins were confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis. Involvement of these proteins in phyB‐mediated signaling pathways was also revealed by physiological analysis of the mutants defective in each phyB‐interacting protein. We further characterized the athb23 mutant impaired in the homeobox protein 23 (ATHB23) gene. The athb23 mutant displayed altered hypocotyl growth under R light, as well as defects in phyB‐dependent seed germination and phyB‐mediated cotyledon expansion. Taken together, these results suggest that the ATHB23 transcription factor is a novel component of the phyB‐mediated R light signaling pathway. 
!~RES~! To understand the highly complex and interconnected networks of the phytochrome signaling pathways better, we attempted to isolate phyB complex proteins in Arabidopsis in vivo through affinity chromatography and MS‐based proteomic analysis. The strategy for purification and identification of phyB complex proteins is illustrated in Fig. 1A. Five‐day‐old dark‐grown seedlings of Arabidopsis wild‐type (Ler) and transgenic plants overexpressing Pro35S::phyB::GFP with phyB‐5 mutant background (PBG‐5) (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION) were irradiated with R light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h to isolate proteins that interact with phyB when the Pfr form of phyB is enriched.  [[FIGURE]] Through affinity chromatography with anti‐GFP antibodies, we obtained four protein fractions from the wild‐type (Ler) and PBG‐5 transgenic seedlings (immunoprecipitated and supernatant fractions from each; see Materials and methods for details). These fractions were subsequently resolved using 2‐D gel electrophoresis; the immunoprecipitated fractions from the wild‐type (Ler) and PBG‐5 transgenic seedlings are shown in Fig. 1B and 1C, respectively. A relatively low‐stringency washing condition was applied to maximize the recovery of proteins that weakly, indirectly and/or transiently bind phyB in vivo. We distinguished putative phyB‐interacting proteins from the non‐specific protein background by comparing 2‐D gel patterns of immunoprecipitated fractions of PBG‐5 transgenic seedlings with those of wild‐type (Ler) seedlings. Protein spots found in supernatant fraction of PBG‐5 transgenic seedlings were also excluded.  Of the 71 spots analyzed for MALDI‐TOF peptide mass finger printing, 16 proteins were identified as putative phyB complex proteins (Table 1). It is noteworthy that the putative phyB complex proteins included PIL1, which is highly similar to a well‐known phytochrome‐interacting protein, PIF3 (Toledo‐Ortiz et al. CITATION). We also identified another putative transcription factor, homeobox protein 23 (ATHB23). Regulatory proteins involved in protein modification, such as DNA‐binding protein phosphatase 1 (DBP1) and a putative kinase (AT1G74490), were identified as putative phyB complex proteins. Notably, proteins thought to be involved in chloroplast function, such as ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase 1 (ADG1) and chloroplast biogenesis 4 (CLB4), were also identified as the putative phyB complex proteins.  To confirm the interaction between phyB and putative phyB complex proteins shown in Table 1, we employed BiFC analysis using Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Plasmids encoding split YFP‐fusion proteins with phyB and each putative phyB‐interacting protein were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts. After 1‐day incubation in the dark, the transformed protoplasts were irradiated with R light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h immediately prior to observation under a fluorescence microscope. Interactions between phyB and 12 of the 16 putative phyB‐interacting proteins were further examined by BiFC analysis. Among these, six were shown to interact with phyB by BiFC analysis (Fig. 2, Table S1). phyB‐YFPC interacted with ATHB23‐YFPN (Fig. 2B) and PIL1‐YFPN (Fig. 2D) preferentially in the nucleus, while an interaction between phyB‐YFPC and AT1G74490‐YFPN (Fig. 2E) or AT2G26190‐YFPN (Fig. 2F) was shown mainly in the cytoplasm. phyB‐YFPC interacted with ADG1‐YFPN (Fig. 2A) and DBP1‐YFPN (Fig. 2C) in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm.  [[FIGURE]] To gain insights into the function of phyB‐interacting proteins in phytochrome signaling, Arabidopsis mutants carrying a T‐DNA insertion in genes encoding each phyB‐interacting protein (Fig. 3A) were analyzed. We measured hypocotyl growth in the wild‐type (Col‐0) and homozygous mutant (designated as adg1, athb23, dbp1, at1g74490 and at2g26190) seedlings in response to R, FR and B light (Figs 3B and S2). The pil1 mutant was not included because it was previously reported that pil1 displays long hypocotyl phenotype under R and FR light, compared to the wild‐type (Khanna et al. CITATION). None of the mutants examined showed any pronounced effect of FR and B light responses. By contrast, four except the at2g26190 mutant displayed significantly different R light responses from those of wild‐type. The athb23 and dbp1 mutants exhibited reduced inhibition of hypocotyl growth than the wild‐type (Col‐0) under R light. However, the adg1 and at1g74490 mutants had shorter hypocotyls under R light than the wild‐type. These results suggest that four phyB‐interacting proteins function as regulators of R light‐mediated hypocotyl growth response of Arabidopsis seedlings (ATHB23 and DBP1 as positive regulators, and ADG1 and AT1G74490 as negative regulators).  [[FIGURE]] As the athb23 mutant exhibited the greatest changes in hypocotyl growth under R light among the five mutants examined, we focused on ATHB23 for detailed analysis. ATHB23, a member of the class I homeodomain‐leucine zipper (HD‐ZIP) family of transcription factors, is a 255 amino acid protein containing a nuclear localization signal sequence and two DNA‐binding domains (a homeobox domain and a leucine zipper domain) (Fig. 4A). To determine the subcellular localization of ATHB23, the ATHB23 protein fused to GFP at the C‐terminus was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. The ATHB23‐GFP protein was clearly localized to the nucleus (Fig. 4B), further implying that ATHB23 functions as a transcription factor.  [[FIGURE]] The athb23 mutant exhibited long hypocotyl phenotype under R light, but it did not show any significant differences from the wild‐type under FR or B light (Fig. 3B). As the hypocotyl growth response depends on light intensity, we examined whether the athb23 mutant exhibited altered hypocotyl growth over a wide range of light fluences. The athb23 mutant displayed a significant reduction in the R light response in light fluences ranging from 0.2 to 20 µmol m−2 s−1 (Fig. 5A). By contrast, the athb23 mutant did not show any pronounced alterations in the FR and B light responses at any of the fluence rates examined (Fig. 5B, C). These results indicate that ATHB23 functions as a positive regulator of the R light‐mediated hypocotyl growth response in Arabidopsis seedlings.  [[FIGURE]] We then examined whether ATHB23 affects the EOD‐FR response, which is primarily mediated by phyB. In this experiment, seedlings grown under white light for 8 h were exposed to a pulse of saturating R (EOD‐R) or FR light (EOD‐FR) before being returned to a 16‐h period of darkness (see Materials and Methods for details). Compared with the EOD‐R treatment, the EOD‐FR treatment caused a significant increase (53.9%) in the length of wild‐type (Col‐0) seedlings. In contrary, the EOD‐FR response was less pronounced in athb23 (24.4% increase) and in phyB‐9 (12.5% increase) than in the wild‐type (Col‐0) (Fig. 5D). These results demonstrate that the athb23 mutation leads to a decrease in the EOD‐FR light‐dependent stimulation of hypocotyl elongation. Overall, these results suggest that ATHB23 plays important roles in the phyB‐mediated hypocotyl growth response.  We noticed that the cotyledon sizes differed between the wild‐type (Col‐0) and athb23 mutant plants. To determine whether ATHB23 regulates phytochrome‐mediated cotyledon expansion, we measured the areas of cotyledons from plants grown in the presence of R, FR or B light. As shown in Fig. 6A, athb23 plants grown in R light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) had smaller cotyledons than wild‐type (Col‐0) plants, whereas the athb23 plants had nearly wild‐type‐sized cotyledons when exposed to FR light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) or B light (10 µmol m−2 s−1). We further examined the cotyledon growth over the range of R and FR light fluences. The cotyledon area of the athb23 seedlings was significantly smaller when the plants were grown under R light at fluences ranging from 0.2 to 20 µmol m−2 s−1 (Fig. 6B). By contrast, we did not observe drastic changes in cotyledon growth in plants grown under different FR light fluences examined (Fig. 6C). These results imply that ATHB23 regulates phyB‐mediated cotyledon expansion.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether ATHB23 is involved in other phyB‐mediated responses, we examined the light‐dependent germination frequency of the athb23 mutant under R and FR light. We first compared the germination potential of wild‐type (Col‐0), phyB‐9 and athb23 seeds irradiated by different R light fluences (0.1–3.6 mmol m−2) immediately after exposure to a pulse of FR light; the seeds were subsequently maintained in the dark. Wild‐type (Col‐0) seeds are known to germinate when phyB is activated by R light, but the phyB‐9 mutant seeds did not germinate under the same conditions (Fig. 7A). The athb23 mutant seeds required more R light fluence for seed germination than the wild‐type (Col‐0). For example, while all of the wild‐type (Col‐0) seeds germinated in response to a pulse of R light (0.3 mmol m−2), only 53.9% of the athb23 mutant seeds germinated under the same conditions. We then analyzed the germination potential of wild‐type (Col‐0), phyA‐211 and athb23 seeds under phyA‐dependent germination conditions [inactivation of phyB with a pulse of FR light, followed by 48 h of seed imbibition and induction of germination by prolonged FR light irradiation of different fluences (14.4–86.4 mmol m−2)]. Under these conditions, 63.0% of the wild‐type (Col‐0) seeds germinated in response to prolonged FR light irradiation (86.4 mmol m−2), whereas the phyA‐211 mutant seeds did not germinate at all (Fig. 7B). We did not observe any significant differences between the germination phenotypes of wild‐type (Col‐0) and athb23 mutant seeds. Taken together, these results indicate that ATHB23 is a positive regulator of phyB‐mediated seed germination.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild‐type (Ler) and transgenic plants overexpressing 35S::phyB::GFP with a phyB‐5 mutant background (PBG‐5) (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION) were used for the isolation of phyB‐inter‐acting proteins. T‐DNA insertional mutant seeds of adg1 (SALK_040155), athb23 (SAIL_155_H02), dbp1 (SALK_144824), at1g74490 (SALK_151735) and at2g26190 (SALK_101894) were obtained from the Ohio Arabidopsis Stock Center (Columbus, OH). All of the Arabidopsis mutants used in this study were derived from the Col‐0 ecotype.  Seeds from Arabidopsis wild‐type (Ler) and phyB::GFP‐overexpressing PBG‐5 plants were sterilized, sown on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog agar medium (MS agar) plates containing 1% sucrose and grown at 22°C for 5 days in the dark. The plates were irradiated with R light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h. Approximately 500 mg of seedlings were homogenized in liquid N2. The homogenates were resuspended in 2 ml extraction buffer (10 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 10% glycerol, 100 mM NaCl, 0.2% Triton X‐100, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF and 1× protease inhibitor), incubated on ice for 10 min and centrifuged at 16 000 g for 20 min.  The supernatants were incubated with agarose beads conjugated with anti‐GFP antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Dallas, TX) in the dark for 2 h at 4°C. The beads were washed with washing buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA and 0.2% Triton X‐100). After centrifugation, the supernatant fractions and immunoprecipitated fractions containing the proteins bound to anti‐GFP antibodies were collected. The total proteins of each fraction were then directly dissolved in 10 volumes of two‐dimensional electrophoresis (2‐DE) lysis solution [9.5 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 4% CHAPS, 45 mM Tris base, 1% (w/v) DTT and 2% v/v carrier ampholytes, pH 3.5–10 (Amersham Bioscience)] and the insoluble material was removed by centrifugation (11 500 g). Equal amounts of protein (200 µg) from the unwashed bead fraction or the unbound supernatant protein fraction were then subjected to 2‐DE separation. For the buffer‐washed co‐immunoprecipitant, 20 µg of protein extract was used. The extracted protein solutions were applied by cup loading for first‐dimension isoelectric focusing (IEF) with immobilized pH gradient (IPG) strips (24 cm, pH 4–10, Genomine DryStripTM; Genomine Inc., Pohang, Korea) equilibrated overnight with rehydration solution [7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% CHAPS, 1% (w/v) DTT and 1% v/v carrier ampholytes, pH 3.5–10 (Amersham Bioscience, GE Healthcare Life Sciences Corp., Piscataway, NJ)]. Second‐dimension electrophoresis was performed using a 10–15% gradient gel with the Iso‐Dalt system (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, GE Healthcare Life Sciences Corp., Piscataway, NJ). The separated spots were detected by matrix‐associated laser desorption ionization‐time of flight (MALDI‐TOF) compatible alkaline silver staining as described (Rabilloud et al. CITATION). Image matching and analysis of the 2‐DE gels was carried out using PDQuestTM software (version 7.1, Bio‐Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) according to the manufacturer's protocols.  Protein spot cleaning and in‐gel digestion were performed as previously described (Fernandez et al. CITATION). Briefly, protein spots excised from 2‐DE gels were destained with potassium ferricyanide, washed, dehydrated with 50% acetonitrile and dried in a vacuum centrifuge. Gel slices were incubated with modified trypsin (Promega) overnight at 37°C. The proteolytic reaction was terminated by adding 0.5% trifluoroacetic acid. The tryptic peptides were desalted and concentrated using C18ZipTips (Millipore Corp., Billerica, MA) or an in‐house‐prepared C18‐microcolumn, and the peptides were eluted in 1–5 µl of 50% acetonitrile. An aliquot of this solution was mixed with two volumes of a saturated solution of α‐cyano‐4‐hydroxycinnamic acid in 50% aqueous acetonitrile, and 0.3 µl of the mixture was spotted onto a target plate. Peptide masses were measured by using an Ettan MALDI‐TOF Pro spectrometer (Amersham Bioscience). MS data were collected from 300 shots at a maximum accelerating potential of 20 kV in positive reflectron mode. Calibrated masses were used for identification by peptide mass fingerprinting by matching proteins in the NCBInr database using the search engine ProFound, developed by The Rockefeller University (http://prowl.rockefeller.edu/prowl‐cgi/profound.exe/ProFound.exe?FORM=1).  Protoplasts were generated from 3‐week‐old Arabidopsis Col‐0 leaves and transformed using the PEG method as described by Kim et al. (CITATION). The BiFC assay was performed according to Walter et al. (CITATION). Full‐length cDNA fragments for phyB and the genes encoding phyB‐interacting proteins were amplified from Arabidopsis Col‐0 cDNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with Taq polymerase. PCR products were cloned into pUC‐SPYNE and pUC‐SPYCE, which generated fusion proteins with the N‐ or C‐terminal part of YFP, respectively. Interactions between phyB‐YFPC and (each phyB‐interacting protein gene)‐YFPN were visualized 1 day after transfection by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Nuclei of protoplasts were visualized with 4′,6‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindone staining.  Seeds were surface sterilized and plated onto 0.1× MS agar without sucrose and incubated at 4°C for 3 days in the dark, followed by exposure to continuous white light (100 µmol m−2 s−1) for 16 h to induce uniform germination. The plates were transferred to monochromatic light conditions and incubated for the designated period of time at 22°C. R, FR and B light were generated by light‐emitting diode light sources at 470, 670 and 735 nm, respectively (Good Feeling Corp., Seongnam, Korea). White light was supplied by fluorescent lamps. Fluence rates were measured with an optical power meter (model 840, Newport Corp., Irvine, CA). The hypocotyl lengths were measured using the scion image program (Scion Corp., Fredrick, MA).  After surface sterilization and cold treatment of the seeds as described previously, more than 50 seeds of each line were sown onto 0.8% agar plates containing 1/2 Gamborg B5 salts with 1% sucrose. The plates were incubated under white light (100 µmol m−2 s−1) for 16 h, followed by incubation under an 8 h white light/16 h dark cycle at 22°C for 5 days. The end‐of‐day (EOD)‐R and EOD‐FR treatments were performed by irradiating the plants with an R light pulse (5 min; 20 µmol m−2 s−1) or a FR light pulse (5 min; 10 µmol m−2 s−1) at the end of the 8 h white light cycle, respectively. For the reversibility of the EOD‐FR treatment, the plates were treated with an R light pulse (5 min; 20 µmol m−2 s−1) after EOD‐FR treatment. The hypocotyl lengths were measured as described for the hypocotyl elongation assay.  For the phyA‐dependent germination assay, seeds were irradiated with FR light (3 µmol m−2 s−1) for 5 min and then incubated in the dark for 48 h. After the dark incubation, the seeds were irradiated with FR light of various fluences (14.4–86.4 mmol m−2) and incubated in the dark for 5 days. For the phyB‐dependent germination assay, seeds were irradiated with FR light (3 µmol m−2 s−1) for 5 min and subsequently irradiated with R light of various fluences (14.4–86.4 mmol m−2). After irradiation, the seeds were incubated in the dark for 5 days, and the germination frequencies were measured. 
