!~ABS~! Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are involved in multiple aspects of stress response and plant growth. However, their role during male gametophyte development is largely unknown, although the generative phase is the most sensitive and critical period in the plant life cycle. Based on a wide screen of T‐DNA mutant lines, we identified the atren1 mutation (restricted to nucleolus1) in early male gametophytic gene At1g77570, which has the closest homology to HSFA5 gene, the member of a heat shock transcription factor (HSF) gene family. The mutation causes multiple defects in male gametophyte development in both structure and function. Because the mutation disrupts an early acting (AtREN1) gene, these pollen phenotype abnormalities appear from bicellular pollen stage to pollen maturation. Moreover, the consequent progamic phase is compromised as well as documented by pollen germination defects and limited transmission via male gametophyte. In addition, atren1/− plants are defective in heat stress (HS) response and produce notably higher proportion of aberrant pollen grains. AtREN1 protein is targeted specifically to the nucleolus that, together with the increased size of the nucleolus in atren1 pollen, suggests that it is likely to be involved in ribosomal RNA biogenesis or other nucleolar functions. 
!~RES~! The gene At1g77570 was selected for a detailed analysis as a candidate of early‐expressed pollen putative transcription factors. Originally, it was annotated as a member of the heat shock factor family. However, according to the TAIR annotation, At1g77570 was described to contain only an HSF‐like domain while other databases (DATF, PlnTFDB) directly included the gene into the HSF family. Therefore, it can be considered as a side member of the HSF family of transcription factors annotated as HSFA5‐like. The appropriate SALK_141481 T‐DNA insertion line harbouring the insertion in the only exon of At1g77570 gene was evaluated for possible phenotype defects caused by the atren1 mutation (Fig. 1a). In order to evaluate the level of AtREN1 mRNA knockdown caused by the T‐DNA insertion, RNA was isolated from four pollen developmental stages (UNM, BCP, TCP and MPG) of atren1/− homozygous mutant plants and used for semi‐quantitative RT‐PCR with two sets of primers flanking the T‐DNA insertion site. The AtREN1 transcript was absent in all samples verifying its complete knockdown (Fig. 1b – see Methods).  The At1g77570 gene was previously selected for its early and significantly pollen‐enriched expression according to the microarray data (Fig. 2a) (Honys & Twell CITATION). Its expression profile was verified by semi‐quantitative RT‐PCR of mRNA isolated from four pollen developmental stages (UNM, BCP, TCP, MPG), inflorescence, leaf, stem and root of Col‐0 plant. The AtREN1 transcript was detected only in the early‐stage spores (UNM and BCP) and in the inflorescence containing both these stages (Fig 2b). AtREN1 promoter activity was further verified in pAtREN1::GUS transgenic plants. In selected T1 plants, the GUS signal was restricted only to early pollen stages including UNM and BCP. No sporophytic tissues (root, stem and leaf) were stained with the sole exception for tapetum in young anthers (Fig. 2c–f).  [[FIGURE]] All phenotypic defects associated with the atren1 mutation were observed only in male gametophyte (Fig. 3), no other visible abnormalities in female gametophyte or in sporophytic tissues including tapetum were found. The mutant phenotype was first observed in mature pollen of homozygous plants showing up to 30% MGU disruption (20% dispersed plus 5–10% eccentric MGU) (Fig. 3h) in terms of previously published classification (Reňák, Dupláková & Honys CITATION). However, such expressivity was not found in all homozygous plants, instead, some homozygotes showed milder phenotype defects indicating lower mutation penetrance and expressivity (Fig. 4a). Nevertheless, the percentage of MGU disruption from heterozygous plants reached about one half of the level found in homozygotes, as expected for a gametophytic mutation. The phenotype co‐segregated with the genotype, which was proven also in a larger population of about 200 plants (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because AtREN1 was an early expressed gene, we included the early developmental stages of immature pollen into our analysis in order to find out at what stage the MGU disruption started. Firstly, it was necessary to characterize the phenotype of Col‐0 WT developing spores because such overview was not available so far. In this respect, the presented survey of the Arabidopsis WT pollen appearance during its development represents the first published record of this kind. Five healthy Col‐0 and atren1/− plants grown at two different places (cultivation room and growth chamber) under standard conditions were used for the analysis. There was no visible difference between plants cultivated at both places. All samples showed very little phenotype variation in all developmental stages. Isolated microspores from both Col‐0 and mutant plants showed a uniform image (Fig. 4b, UNM). In the BCP stage, however, we distinguished two variants in nuclei arrangement. Both the VN and the generative nucleus (GN) were in 93% BCP tightly bound near the centre of the grain forming MGU. The remaining portion of pollen grains represented a population with more disperse organization of the two nuclei. We have measured the distance between VN and GN as a fold of diameter of GN. Such distribution varied in this population of BCP from 1.5 to 2 GN diameters. This type represented 7% BCP in WT while in mutant pollen this percentage raised up to 30% (Fig. 4b, BCP). In the TCP, we clearly distinguished even three types of MGU arrangement. Firstly, it was the common image of closely bound MGU in the centre. Such type represented 41% in Col‐0 and 35% in the mutant. Secondly, the MGU figure was not so tightly bound but rather relaxed, representing 44% in WT and 28% in mutant pollen. Thirdly, the MGU arrangement was even looser with various eccentric or separated nuclei figures counting for 15% in Col‐0 and as many as 38% in atren1/− mutant. Only this pollen phenotype was considered as strongly MGU disrupted in our analyses. Because of the complex phenotypic nature of TCP, 2405 grains of Col‐0 were observed in total from different plants (with comparable results) to avoid accidental fluctuation of the phenotype (Fig. 4b, TCP). Finally, the MPG stage, already described above, contained 5% MGU disruption in Col‐0 plants and up to 30% in mutants (Fig. 4b, MPG).  Considering the cellular structure and nuclear arrangement in tapetal cells, we observed this tissue only in young anthers with UNM and BCP. We noticed the developmental difference between the two stages, particularly rounded cells and large nuclei in cells at the UNM stage, while irregular cells and nuclear shape in tapetum with the first signs of degeneration at the BCP stage. Nevertheless, such development was similar both in Col‐0 and atren1/− anthers with no significant difference in subcellular/nuclear organization in tapetum.  Because we observed the lower proportion of homozygous plants in the population, we performed the segregation analysis of the progeny of self‐crossed atren1 heterozygous plants. We found the segregation ratio of 1:1.7:0.8, which was distorted in comparison to the Mendelian 1:2:1 ratio (Table 1). The question remained whether this distortion was caused only by the reduced transmission through the male or whether the transmission through the female was also compromised. Therefore, we outcrossed heterozygous plants to Col‐0 in both directions and observed the reduced transmission through both the male (1:0.6) and the female (1:0.8) (Table 1).  Observed ratio (+/+ : ±) Considering the reduction of male gamete transmission, we speculated whether the reduction was based on pollen germination ability and/or on the rate of pollen tube growth. To test this possibility, we monitored pollen tube growth in vivo. For that reason, pistils of Col‐0 plants were pollinated either by WT pollen from Col‐0 plants or by pollen from atren1/− plants. After 5 h, the pistils were collected and stained for callose. The length of pollen tubes was comparable between WT and mutant in several replicates of each pollination experiment (Fig. 5a). In both cases, we observed that pollen tubes in both samples reached the lowest ovules in the ovary after 5 h of growth. To estimate the in vitro pollen germination efficiency, WT and mutant pollen was applied on agarose pads and cultivated for 12 h in the humid chamber. After the cultivation, the proportion of germinated pollen was checked by light microscopy. The in vitro germination efficiency of pollen grains differed significantly as it dropped from 80% in WT pollen down to 20% in atren1/− mutants (Fig. 5b).  [[FIGURE]] To further verify the functional link between the insertion in the At1g77570 gene and the phenotype observed, we cloned the whole genomic sequence including the upstream region of −1000 bp and 3′UTR into the pKGW vector for the complementation analysis. Out of 42 transformants in T1 generation in atren1/− background, we observed the WT phenotype in 26 plants (<5% pollen abnormalities) and the mild mutant phenotype in 14 plants (5–10% pollen abnormalities) indicating the functional rescue of the WT phenotype (data not shown). Only two plants showed even stronger MGU‐disrupted phenotype (36 and 51%) than the atren1/− background itself. On the basis of these results, we confirmed that the pollen phenotype defects of SALK_141481 line result from the mutation of At1g77570 gene.  The localization of AtREN1 fusion proteins with GFP (both N‐ and C‐terminal fusions) in transiently transformed tobacco leaf epidermis was restricted to the nucleus, with significantly stronger signal in a large sub‐nuclear region presumably corresponding to the nucleolus (Fig. 6b). In addition, the AtREN1‐GFP protein localized also into other nuclear bodies. On the contrary, free GFP control was localized diffusely in the cytoplasm and the nucleoplasm but not in the nucleolus (Fig. 6a).  [[FIGURE]] To further specify the AtREN1‐GFP localization in the sub‐nuclear region, we used standard markers fibrillarin, SRp34 and coilin (Fig. 6c–e). Fibrillarin is present specifically in the nucleolus, coilin is restricted to the Cajal bodies and the splicing‐associated protein SRp34 is distributed throughout the nucleoplasm and sometimes concentrated into splicing speckles but excluded from the nucleolus. The co‐localization with fibrillarin unambiguously targeted AtREN1 protein into the nucleolus (Fig. 6c). AtREN1‐GFP also appeared to co‐localize with a subset of Cajal bodies (Fig. 6e). These Cajal bodies were often localized close to the nucleolus or touching its edge, in some cases they were even harboured in the nucleolus.  After AgNOR staining, the nucleolus was clearly detected as a brown spot in light microscopy and it appeared even more contrastively in UV light as a dark spot against DAPI‐stained nucleoplasm. The nucleolar size was calculated as a proportion of the Ag‐stained area from the total nuclear area observed under UV fluorescence. We observed that in both WT and mutant pollen, the relative nucleolar size was noticeably larger in early stages (UNM, BCP) when compared with later ones (TCP, MPG) reaching its maximum in BCP (Fig. 6f–h). In mature pollen, the nucleolus was almost undetectable. Considering the mutant pollen nucleolus, we observed that its relative size was constantly larger than that of Col‐0 pollen. The sole exception was the MPG where the size of both nucleoli was comparable.  Although several HSF family members are known to be involved also in the standard development, stress response is considered to be the principal function of HSF proteins. Moreover, the nucleolus is well known for its stress‐sensing functions as well (Raška et al. CITATION; Mayer et al. CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether the application of HS affects the atren1 pollen development. Plants grown in the cultivation chamber at standard conditions were tested for pollen phenotype before the application of HS. The progeny of segregating heterozygotes was used together with Col‐0 as a control. The phenotype of heterozygote progeny co‐segregated with the genotype of individual plants as expected. Before HS, the abnormal pollen phenotype ratio was 14.3, 7.1 and 5.4% in homozygous, heterozygous and separated WT plants, respectively, in comparison to 4% abnormal pollen in Col‐0 plants. The proportion of MGU disruption in heterozygotes approximately corresponded to one half of that in homozygotes. However, after 2 d HS (30 °C), the pollen phenotype of plants bearing the atren1 mutation changed. Most pollen phenotype disruptions were observed within homozygous plants, reaching 40–50% (3–3.5 times more than under non‐stress conditions) of total pollen in several individuals. On average, the percentage of MGU disruptions reached 31.6% in homozygous plants, 21.6% in heterozygotes, 10.9% in segregated WT plants and 9.5% in Col‐0. The phenotype of segregated WT plants remained more or less stable after HS and was comparable to the response of Col‐0 control plants (Fig. 7). On the whole, the portfolio of pollen phenotype abnormalities (in terms of phenotype classes) in homozygotes after the heat shock was comparable to the phenotype under standard cultivation conditions, which means that the pollen with eccentric and dispersed MGU dominated among pollen abnormalities. The fitness of all observed plants during 2 d at 30 °C remained stable without any visible sign of suffering except for faster growth and branching of inflorescences.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used T‐DNA insertion line SALK_141481 from The European Arabidopsis Stock Centre with the insert in the only exon of the At1g77570 gene (Fig. 1a). Plants were grown in soil in a cultivation room at standard conditions of 22 °C, 16 h/8 h day/night regime with illumination of 150 μmol m−2 s−1.  [[FIGURE]] Four pollen developmental stages including microspores [uninucleate microspores (UNM)], bicellular pollen (BCP), tricellular pollen (TCP) and mature pollen grains (MPG) were separated in order to isolate RNA for further experiments by modified protocol of Honys & Twell (CITATION). Inflorescences of fully blooming atren1/− mutant plants (thousands) were cut and collected into 1 L flask on ice. Later, 100 mL of cold 0.3 M mannitol was added and shaken (twice with the same volume of fresh solution) for 5 min to wash out mature pollen from open flowers. The total suspension of mature pollen was filtered through 100 and 50 μm nylon membrane and centrifuged at 450 g, 5 min, 4 °C. By repeating the centrifugation under the same conditions, the initial volume of 200 mL was reduced to 1 mL, and after the final centrifugation step, the dried pollen pellet was frozen at −20 °C. Remaining washed inflorescences were gently mashed in small portions of 0.3 M mannitol in mortal on ice to break the immature anthers and to release the developing spores. The suspension was filtered and centrifuged under the same conditions. Similarly, the initial volume was decreased to 800 μL. Meanwhile, Percoll step gradient I (85%/45%/20%) was prepared in four centrifuge tubes with 2 mL of each layer. A total of 200 μL of immature pollen suspension was applied on the top of the gradient and centrifuged in swing rotor at 450 g, 5 min, 4 °C. Three separated layers (from the top: one UNM, two mixtures of UNM and BCP, and three TCPs) were collected in microcentrifuge tubes on ice. Suspensions of pure UNM and TCP were pelleted, dried and stored at −20 °C. The middle layer containing UNM and BCP was again applied on Percoll step gradient II (25%/35%/45%) and centrifuged in swing rotor at 450 g, 5 min, 4 °C. The upper layer containing UNM and middle and lower layers containing BCP were pelleted, dried and stored at −20 °C.  At least three flower buds from a plant containing immature pollen stages (UNM, BCP and TCP) were collected into DAPI/GUS buffer (400 ng mL−1; Park, Howden & Twell CITATION; GUS solution: 50 mM Na2HPO4, 50 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM EDTA; Gallagher CITATION). Pollen from young anthers was mechanically released and stained on glass slides. Mature pollen (MPG) was collected from at least three fully opened flowers and directly stained in DAPI/GUS buffer and observed in visible (VIS) and ultraviolet (UV) epifluorescent microscopy (Nikon Eclipse TE2000‐E; Nikon Corp., Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan).  A leaf sample was frozen in liquid nitrogen, mashed with glass beads (MagNA Lyser; Roche Applied Science, Penzberg, Germany) and mixed with 250 μL CTAB extraction buffer (1.4 M NaCl, 20 mM EDTA, 100 mM Tris pH 8.0, 3% CTAB) at room temperature (RT) for 20 min. Then, 250 μL of chloroform:isoamylalcohol mixture (CH:IAA, 24:1) was added and mixed. Samples were centrifuged (8000 g, 10 min, RT), and 200 μL of the upper aqueous phase was transferred into a tube containing 140 μL of isopropanol. After mixing, tubes were left for 5 min for DNA denaturation and centrifuged once again (8000 g, 2 min, RT). DNA pellets were washed with 1 mL of 70% ethanol and, after a final centrifugation (8000 g, 2 min, RT), carefully dried, resuspended in 50 μL H2O and stored at −20 °C. Progeny of five self‐crossed heterozygous plants was genotyped for the segregation analysis. Segregated plants of three genotypes were tested for the co‐segregation of the phenotype defects with the mutation. Outcrosses between Col‐0 wild type (WT) and heterozygotes in both directions were done to check the transmission analysis. For that, flowers were emasculated in flower buds, isolated and pollinated in the following day when stigmas were fully developed. After the seeds developed, the segregation ratio of the progeny was analysed.  Two sets of samples were used: (1) pollen developmental stages, root, stem, leaf and inflorescence from Col‐0 WT to verify the At1g77570 gene expression profile; and (2) all pollen developmental stages from atren1/− mutant plants to verify the knockout or knockdown of the AtREN1 mRNA in mutant pollen. Total RNA was isolated by RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) from the respective samples according to the manufacturer‘s instruction. The quality and quantity of total RNA were determined on agarose gel and spectrophotometrically (Nanodrop; Thermo Fischer Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). After the DNase treatment (RQ1 RNase‐Free DNase; Promega, Madison, WI, USA), RT‐PCR was performed using ImProm‐II Reverse Transcription System (Promega) with oligo(dT)15 or random primers and RNA from Col‐0 or atren1 pollen; cDNA from Col‐0 WT was then used to verify the gene expression profile using gene‐specific primers REN_F:ATCTTGACCGTCCTTTGAAT and REN_R:AGACTTGAATCTACTTGGAGA, and cDNA from atren1/− mutant plants was used to verify the knockout mutation using cDNA_REN_F1:CTCTCTATGCTAAAATCTCG, cDNA_REN_R1:TTGTAACCCATCCCTAAAAC, cDNA_REN_F2:GAGATAAACTGGAGCTTATG and cDNA_REN_R2:ATTTGCAAGTGTTGGAAGAG. Because the AtREN1 gene (At1g77570) has no intron, to exclude the contamination by gDNA, the following set of primers was used for the HSFA5 gene (At4g13980) over the intron providing the PCR products of 1402 bp (‐intron) or 1730 bp (+intron). eIF5A (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A, At1g13950) was used as a reference housekeeping gene; eIF5A_F:ACGGTCACATCGTCATCAAA, eIF5A_R:TAACATGGGGCACATCACAA.  A total of 1 kb upstream region from +1 ATG was amplified and introduced via D‐TOPO donor vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) into the Gateway‐compatible pKGWFS7 destination vector (VIB, Ghent, Belgium; Karimi, Inzé & Depicker CITATION) for β‐glucuronidase (GUS) assay. Expression clones were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transfected into Arabidopsis by floral dip method (Clough & Bent CITATION). Seeds were sown onto LB Agar containing 50 μg mL−1 Kanamycin. Resistant plants were later transferred into soil and grown. Top inflorescences were cut and immersed into the GUS‐staining buffer (0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0; 10 mM EDTA, pH 8.0; 0.1% triton X‐100 supplemented with 1 mM X‐glcA and 4 mM ferricyanide). After the 2 d incubation at 37 °C, samples were decolorized in ethanol:aceton (3:1) and observed in bright field and epifluorescence under the Nikon Eclipse TE2000‐E microscope.  The WT allele from Col‐0 DNA including 1 kb upstream region from +1 ATG and following coding region + 3′UTR was introduced via D‐TOPO donor vector (Invitrogen) into the Gateway‐compatible pKGW destination vector (VIB; Karimi et al. CITATION). Expression clones were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transfected into atren1/− plants by floral dip method. Seeds were sown onto LB agar containing 50 μg mL−1 Kanamycin. Selected plants were later transferred into soil and grown under standard conditions. Mature pollen was collected from open flowers and checked for the phenotype in VIS and UV microscopy.  The whole coding sequence of AtREN1 was subcloned into the pGWB5 and pGWB6 vectors (VIB) in order to create C‐ and N‐terminal GFP fusion proteins. The expression clones were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transfected by syringe into the epidermal layer of tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves. After 1 d dark period, leaf segments were cut and mounted in 10% glycerol on a glass slide for confocal microscopy.  Freshly collected whole Arabidopsis flowers were fixed in Carnoy's solution. Subsequently, the material was hydrated in decreasing concentrations of ethanol (70‐50‐25‐10%), washed in 5% acetic acid and finally twice in distilled water, 5 min in each solution in a 15 mL tube. After maceration, flowers were impregnated by 50% AgNO3 in water, 55 °C, 20 min; then incubated in 1:1 mixture of 2% gelatin in 1% formic acid and 50% AgNO3 for 20 min in dark. The plant material was then washed with distilled water for 10 min and then treated with 5% sodium thiosulfate for 10 min (Zienkiewicz & Bednarska CITATION; modified). Individual anthers of sequential developmental series were prepared on glass slide, covered with water, squashed and observed under the microscope (Nicon Eclipse TE2000‐E). The area of nucleolus was measured by NIS‐Elements AR 3.0 software tools (Nikon Instruments, Tokyo, Japan) by hand selection at high magnification to avoid boundary errors.  The progeny of atren1/+ from seedling stage to fully developed inflorescences was grown (6 weeks) in cultivation chamber Sanyo MLR‐351H (Sanyo, Osaka, Japan) at 16 h/8 h day light regime, 22 °C and 70% humidity. After that, the temperature was set up to 30 °C for 2 d, other parameters were kept the same. At least three open flowers were collected before and after the 2 d HS from the same plants to observe the pollen phenotype in VIS and UV epifluorescence. The heat‐treated flowers were collected the second day at 30 °C to assure that all collected flowers had completed pollen development from meiosis under the HS conditions.  Col‐0 WT flowers were emasculated and pollinated the following day by fresh pollen from Col‐0 WT (control) and homozygous atren1/− plants. Five hours after the pollination, the pistils were cut and fixed in ethanol:acetic acid (3:1) mixture for 1 h at RT. After overnight softening in 8 M NaOH, the pistils were washed in distilled water and stained for callose by aniline blue solution (0.1% aniline blue in 0.1 M K2HPO4‐KOH buffer, pH 11) for 3 h as described by Ishiguro et al. (CITATION) to compare pollen tube growth with WT control in planta. For in vitro assay of pollen tube growth, 20 flowers were collected into 750 μL of 0.3 M mannitol, shaken and centrifuged. Mature pollen from the pellet was dispensed on an agarose pad (1.5% low‐melting agarose in 0.01% H3BO4, 5 Mm CaCl2.2H2O, 1 mM MgSO4.7H2O, 5 mM KCl, and 10% sucrose, pH 7.5; Boavida & McCormick CITATION) on a glass slide. The pollen germinated in a dark humid chamber at 22 °C and grew overnight, and then observed in VIS microscopy. 
