!~ABS~! Plants have evolved a complex array of defensive responses against pathogenic microorganisms. Recognition of microbes initiates signaling cascades that activate plant defenses. The membrane lipid phosphatidic acid, produced by phospholipase D (PLD), has been shown to take part in both abiotic and biotic stress signaling. In this study, the involvement of PLD in the interaction between Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and the barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) was investigated. This nonadapted pathogen is normally resisted by a cell wall-based defense, which stops the fungal hyphae from penetrating the epidermal cell wall. Chemical inhibition of phosphatidic acid production by PLD increased the penetration rate of Bgh spores on wild-type leaves. The analysis of transfer DNA knockout lines for all Arabidopsis PLD genes revealed that PLDδ is involved in penetration resistance against Bgh, and chemical inhibition of PLDs in plants mutated in PLDδ indicated that this isoform alone is involved in Bgh resistance. In addition, we confirmed the involvement of PLDδ in penetration resistance against another nonadapted pea powdery mildew fungus, Erysiphe pisi. A green fluorescent protein fusion of PLDδ localized to the plasma membrane at the Bgh attack site, where it surrounded the cell wall reinforcement. Furthermore, in the pldδ mutant, transcriptional up-regulation of early microbe-associated molecular pattern response genes was delayed after chitin stimulation. In conclusion, we propose that PLD is involved in defense signaling in nonhost resistance against powdery mildew fungi and put PLDδ forward as the main isoform participating in this process.
!~RES~! The development of Bgh spores on Arabidopsis leaves is synchronous, and penetration attempts occur in a narrow time frame around 12 h post inoculation (hpi; CITATION). It is thus possible to score and compare fungal penetration on different plants at a certain time point. To test a possible contribution of PLD-generated PA to plant resistance against Bgh penetration, we exploited the transphosphatidylation activity of PLD, which uses primary alcohols as substrates to form an artificial phosphatidyl alcohol. The preferential formation of this compound impairs PA production (CITATION). Thus, we employed n-butanol to inhibit PA formation by PLD. Leaves were infiltrated with different n- or tert-butanol concentrations 3 h before inoculation, and penetration was scored at 3 d post inoculation (dpi). Increasing n-butanol concentrations caused progressively higher Bgh penetration rates, from 16% (sd 1.0) for a water control to 38% (sd 7.5) for leaves treated with 0.6% n-butanol (Fig. 1A). In contrast, the penetration rate for leaves infiltrated with tert-butanol, an alcohol with no inhibitory effects on PA formation, was not significantly different compared with that of the water control. These results thus indicate the involvement of PLD and PA in cell wall-based defense against Bgh. We next attempted to measure PLD activity and PA accumulation during the defense response. To this end, leaf explants were labeled with 33PO4 overnight before inoculation with Bgh spores. However, no increase in PA label could be measured at 4, 8, 12, and 24 hpi (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] We set out to identify which, if any, of the 12 known Arabidopsis PLD isoforms contributes to penetration resistance against Bgh. For this purpose, we identified at least one transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion line for each PLD gene. The insertion site of each T-DNA line was verified by sequencing (Supplemental Table S1; Supplemental Fig. S2). Homozygous plants for T-DNA insertion lines not previously published were tested by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR for the presence of the corresponding PLD transcript using primers flanking the insertion site (Supplemental Fig. S3; Supplemental Table S2). Absence of transcripts confirmed that the T-DNA lines indeed are knockout (KO) mutants of the PLD genes. Absence of transcript and/or protein in the pldα1, pldα3, pldζ1, and pldζ2 mutants was described in previous publications (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The different PLD single KO lines and two PLD double KO lines (pldβ1-2 pldβ2 and pldζ1 pldζ2) were scored for Bgh penetration resistance by counting interaction events in leaves stained by trypan blue 2 d after inoculation with Bgh spores. Among all, only the PLDδ KO line (pldδ) displayed a significantly higher Bgh penetration rate compared with the wild type (Fig. 1B). The penetration rate in this mutant was approximately doubled compared with the wild type, representing an increase from 12% (sd 0.8) penetration in the wild type to over 23% (sd 2.3) in pldδ. None of the pld mutants investigated was affected in the cell death response to successfully penetrating spores (Supplemental Fig. S4). Furthermore, none of the lines displayed any visible growth or other phenotype under our cultivation regime (Supplemental Fig. S5). Absence of the PLDδ-specific transcript in pldδ was verified with a primer pair annealing downstream of the insertion site in addition to the T-DNA flanking pair (Fig. 2, A and B). To confirm that the penetration phenotype of pldδ is caused by the specific loss of the PLDδ protein, the mutant was complemented with PLDδ coding sequence fused to GFP under the transcriptional regulation of a 1.4-kb PLDδ promoter region. This restored wild-type levels of Bgh penetration (Fig. 2C). In addition, pldδ plants were transformed with a mutated version of the pPLDδ:PLDδ-GFP transgene, which carried a point mutation turning a His into an Asp residue (H707D) in one of the catalytically active HKD sites of PLDδ. This His-to-Asp mutation was previously shown to abolish the enzymatic activity of a PLD isoform in cabbage (Brassica oleracea; CITATION). Transgenic pldδ plants expressing the pPLDδ:PLDδH707D-GFP construct displayed Bgh penetration levels similar to the untransformed pldδ (Fig. 2, B and C), further supporting that PLDδ activity is essential for normal penetration resistance. [[FIGURE]] To verify that PLDδ is the only PLD isoform that plays a role in penetration resistance against Bgh, the pldδ mutant was treated with n-butanol before inoculation with Bgh. This treatment caused no further increase in Bgh penetration rate (Fig. 3A). The transcripts of PLDα1 and PLDδ are the most abundant among the PLD genes in green tissues (CITATION), while PLDβ1 and PLDβ2 are the two isoforms most closely related to PLDδ (CITATION). Bgh penetration was scored in pldα1 pldδ double and pldβ1-2 pldβ2 pldδ triple mutants, but none of these displayed higher levels than the pldδ single mutant (Fig. 3, B and C). This, together with the n-butanol treatment of pldδ, verified that PLDδ is the sole PLD isoform involved in penetration resistance. Double mutants combining the pldδ mutation with the pen1-1 or the pen3-1 mutation did not display higher Bgh penetration frequencies than the respective parent pen mutants (Fig. 3D). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the conservation of the involvement of PLDδ in penetration resistance against powdery mildew fungi, we used the Arabidopsis nonhost fungal pathogen Erysiphe pisi (Ep), which is an adapted powdery mildew fungus on pea (Pisum sativum) plants. The Ep penetration rate on wild-type Arabidopsis leaves was higher than that of Bgh, suggesting a higher level of adaptation to Arabidopsis. The pldδ mutant displayed a significantly higher penetration rate compared with the wild type for Ep (Fig. 4). The penetration success rate increased from 18% (sd 3.1) of the germinated spores on wild-type leaves to 35% (sd 4.0) on the pldδ mutant. This clearly demonstrates that the PLDδ gene is involved in penetration resistance against this fungus as well. [[FIGURE]] Since KO of the PLDδ gene caused decreased penetration resistance against two different nonhost powdery mildew fungi, and since the gene appears not specifically linked to either PEN1- or PEN2/PEN3-defined penetration resistance pathways, we hypothesized that the activity of the PLDδ isoform might have a more general role in plant pathogen defense. In particular, it seems reasonable to suggest that the gene might be involved in signaling after recognition of MAMPs. It would be interesting to test the response of the pldδ mutant to MAMPs, such as chitin, since a chitin receptor mutant has been previously found to have reduced powdery mildew resistance (CITATION). For this purpose, wild-type and pldδ mutant seedlings were treated with a chitin extract, and transcriptional changes of the early MAMP-induced genes, FLG22-INDUCED RECEPTOR-LIKE KINASE1 (FRK1), NDR1/HIN1-LIKE10 (NHL10) and PHOSPHATE-INDUCIBLE1 (PHI-1; CITATION; CITATION), were evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR (Fig. 5). The transcript levels of all three genes rapidly increased following treatment with chitin in both wild-type and mutant plants. PHI1 and NHL10 both reached a peak of transcript accumulation 30 min after treatment, whereas FRK1 transcript increased throughout the experiment. However, the pldδ mutant showed a trend for an approximately 50% reduction in transcript accumulation after 30 min for PHI1 and NHL10. For all three genes, a trend for a delayed chitin-induced accumulation of transcripts was observed. Observations for NHL10 were consistent for all biological replicates. Results for PHI-1 and FRK1 demonstrated more variability between experiments and, in some instances, revealed a lower amount of transcript at the zero time point in the pldδ mutant. These observations suggest that PLDδ is needed for rapid and timely activation of CERK1-controlled defense signaling cascades. [[FIGURE]] The complementation of pldδ phenotype by the expression of the pPLDδ:PLDδ-GFP transgene indicates that the PLDδ-GFP translational fusion is functional. Although the fluorescent signals of the pPLDδ:PLDδ-GFP and pPLDδ:PLDδH707D-GFP lines were clearly visible in leaves observed with an epifluorescence microscope (Supplemental Fig. S6), they were not sufficiently high for confocal imaging. Thus, we placed the coding sequence for the PLDδ-GFP fusion under the transcriptional regulation of the 35S promoter and transformed this transgene into wild-type plants. The p35S:PLDδ-GFP line proved to be suitable for confocal microscopy, and PLDδ-GFP clearly localized to the plasma membrane of leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 6A). Twenty-four hours after Bgh inoculation, PLDδ-GFP was visible in the plasma membrane in general and at the regions of fungal attack where the appressoria attempted penetration. Here, PLDδ-GFP fluorescence labeled the rim of the forming papilla (Fig. 6B). Z-stack observations and three-dimensional visualization of several fungal attack sites displayed an accumulation of PLDδ-GFP at the plasma membrane, which forms a cup-like shape around the papilla (Fig. 6, C and D; Supplemental Movie S1). Occasionally, the accumulation of PLDδ-GFP around Bgh interaction sites extended to the surrounding membrane in the shape of a compact disk (Fig. 6E). Three-dimensional reconstruction of these entry sites showed a small plasma membrane invagination corresponding to a small papilla (Supplemental Movie S2). Nontransformed wild-type leaf epidermal cells exhibited low autofluorescence in the GFP channel before (Supplemental Fig. S6A) and 24 h after (Supplemental Fig. S6B) inoculation with Bgh spores. The autofluorescence was mainly associated with stomatal guard cell walls and did not coincide with PLDδ-GFP signal. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia (Col-0) lines were grown under short-day conditions (8-h day and 16-h night, 180 µmol m−2 s−1) at 22°C and 60% relative humidity. For analysis of chitin-induced transcript accumulation, Col-0 and pldδ mutant seeds were sterilized and grown on 1× Murashige and Skoog medium for 11 to 12 d with 16 h of light (at 21°C) and 8 h of dark (at 19°C) as described (CITATION). SALK (CITATION) and GABI-Kat (CITATION) T-DNA lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (CITATION). Identifier numbers and gene-specific primers used for the isolation of homozygous lines are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The LBb1.3 (5′-ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC-3′) and GK_8409 (5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′) oligonucleotides were used as T-DNA-specific primers for genotyping the SALK and GABI-Kat lines, respectively. The pldζ1-1 pldζ2-1 double mutant line was kindly provided by Prof. Xuemin Wang. Total RNA was extracted from 100 mg of leaf tissue using the GeneJET RNA purification kit (Thermo Scientific) and treated with DNase I (Thermo Scientific) to remove traces of genomic DNA. RT of mRNA was achieved with the RevertAid Premium First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Thermo Scientific) using oligo(dT)18. Subsequent PCR amplification of PLD-specific transcripts was performed with the primers listed in Supplemental Table S2. Amplification of the ACTIN7 gene (At5g09810) was used as a control. The nonhost powdery mildew fungi Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (isolate DH14) and Erysiphe pisi (isolate CO-01) were propagated on barley (Hordeum vulgare) and pea (Pisum sativum) plants, respectively. Inoculations were carried out as described previously (CITATION). Leaves were stained with trypan blue as described (CITATION). Successful penetration and cell death were determined by the presence of a fungal haustorium and trypan blue uptake, respectively. At least 50 interaction sites of two leaves from three or four independent plants were counted for each treatment/mutant line. The average frequency of penetrations from two leaves from each plant was used for multiple comparison with one-way ANOVA with Fisher’s lsd using the software package GraphPad Prism 6.0 (Graphpad Software) or paired Student’s t test using Excel 2010. To study the effect of Bgh inoculation on phospholipid metabolism, leaf explants were labeled with 33PO4 overnight before Bgh inoculations. The lipids were extracted and separated by thin-layer chromatography as described previously (CITATION), and lipid radiolabel was quantified after liquid scintillation of PA-containing regions of the thin-layer plates. Leaves were infiltrated with alcohol solutions in deionized water using a 1-mL syringe without needle from their abaxial side using gentle pressure. Attention was paid to ensure complete diffusion of the solution to the whole leaf lamina. Plants were subsequently returned to the growth chamber for 3 h before fungal inoculation to allow absorption of the solution and to let the leaves dry. Experiments were performed as described by CITATION with the following modifications. Total seedling RNA was isolated using TRIzol (www.lifetechnologies.com/) according to the protocol provided with the reagent. Subsequently, 2 µg of total RNA was used to generate complementary DNA (cDNA) using the Advantage RT-for-PCR Kit (www.clontech.com) in a total volume of 20 µL. Finally, 80 µL of double distilled water was added to the reaction mixture. A volume of 2.4 µL of cDNA was used in the quantitative PCRs, with final primer concentrations of 0.5 mm of the forward and reverse primers for the reference gene At4g26410, FRK1, and NHL10 and 0.125 mm of the forward and reverse primers for PHI-1 (CITATION). Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S3. The volume was adjusted to 6 µL, and 6 µL of 2× SYBR Green Jumpstart Taq ReadyMix (www.sigma.com) was added. The quantitative PCR was run in a Stratagene Mx3000P (Amersham Biosciences, GE Healthcare) thermal cycler, and the results were analyzed using Stratagene MxPro Mx3005P software (Amersham Biosciences, GE Healthcare). The cycling program used was as follows: 10 min at 95°C, then 40 cycles of 30 s at 95°C, 30 s at 62°C, and 25 s at 72°C. The melting curves of the PCR products were recorded between 55°C and 95°C. The complete coding sequence of the PLDδ gene excluding the final stop codon was amplified from wild-type leaf cDNA (generated as described above) using the PLDδ_cds primers (Supplemental Table S4). The obtained product was inserted into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector through directional TOPO cloning (Invitrogen) and subsequently verified by sequencing. To obtain a PLDδ 3′ terminal fusion to GFP, the PLDδ coding sequence was transferred using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) to the pB7FWG2 vector (CITATION), resulting in the p35S:PLDδ-GFP T-DNA construct. For generation of the pPLDδ:PLDδ-GFP transgene, the pB7FWG2 vector was modified prior to recombination with the PLDδ coding sequence as follows. A 1.4-kb PLDδ untranslated promoter region upstream of the first ATG was amplified from wild-type genomic DNA using the pPLDδ primers (Supplemental Table S4). The amplified fragment was used to replace the p35S region in the pB7FWG2 vector (CITATION) through digestion with HindIII and SpeI endonucleases and subsequent ligation. The modified vector was verified by sequencing. The obtained T-DNA plasmids carrying the p35S:PLDδ-GFP and pPLDδ:PLDδ-GFP transgenes were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101 and C58C1, respectively. Transformation of wild-type and pldδ plants was achieved through the floral dip method (CITATION). The pENTR/D-TOPO vector containing the PLDδ coding sequence was employed to obtain the PLDδΗ707D mutant open reading frame (ORF). The C-to-G mutation at position 2,152 of the PLDδ ORF was introduced by amplifying the whole plasmid by PCR (26 cycles) with the phosphorylated PLDδΗ707D ORF primers (Supplemental Table S4). The original template plasmid was digested with DpnI endonuclease (acting on methylated DNA), and the PCR product was subsequently circularized by ligation. The mutant PLDδΗ707D ORF was verified by sequencing and subsequently transferred to the pB7FWG2 vector (modified as described above) in order to generate the pPLDδ:PLDδH707D-GFP transgene. The obtained plasmid was introduced into A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 and transformed into pldδ plants. Transgenic PLDδ-GFP lines were scored for GFP fluorescence in leaves using a 20× objective mounted on a Zeiss Axio Scope.A1 epifluorescence microscope. Localization of PLDδ-GFP was investigated with a Zeiss LSM 700 confocal laser scanning microscope using a 40× water-immersion objective (numerical aperture, 1.1). For visualization of fungal spores, inoculated leaves were mounted in a solution of 2.5% mannitol/0.1% (v/v) Silwet/0.02 mg mL−1 propidium iodide. Images were analyzed with Volocity (Perkin-Elmer) and ImageJ software. Sequence data of the genes used in this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries. Gene accession numbers are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Quantification of radiolabeled PA after Bgh inoculation. Supplemental Figure S2. Schematic representation of the structure of the PLD genes and the T-DNA insertion sites. Supplemental Figure S3. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of PLD T-DNA lines. Supplemental Figure S4. No postpenetration cell death phenotype was observed in pld mutants. Supplemental Figure S5. Growth phenotypes of the PLD T-DNA lines used in this study. Supplemental Figure S6. Expression of pPLDδ::PLDδ-GFP and pPLDδ::PLDδH707D-GFP transgenes in the pldδ mutant background. Supplemental Figure S7. Control image of the autofluorescence of noninoculated and Bgh-inoculated leaves. Supplemental Table S1. T-DNA mutant alleles of Arabidopsis PLD genes and gene-specific primers used for genotyping. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used for semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of PLD T-DNA mutant lines. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of MAMP-responsive genes. Supplemental Table S4. Primers used for the molecular cloning of PLDδ transgenes. Supplemental Movie S1. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the Bgh attack site and PLDδ-GFP localization around it at 24 hpi of p35S::PLDδ-GFP plants. Supplemental Movie S2. PLDδ-GFP localization around a small papilla at 24 hpi of p35S::PLDδ-GFP plants.
