!~ABS~! The adaptor protein-2 (AP-2) complex is a heterotetramer involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis of cargo proteins from the plasma membrane in animal cells. The homologous genes of AP-2 subunits are present in the genomes of plants; however, their identities and roles in endocytic pathways are not clearly defined in plants. Here, we reveal the molecular composition of the AP-2 complex of Arabidopsis thaliana and its dynamics on the plasma membrane. We identified all of the α-, β-, σ-, and μ-subunits of the AP-2 complex and detected a weak interaction of the AP-2 complex with clathrin heavy chain. The μ-subunit protein fused to green fluorescent protein (AP2M-GFP) was localized to the plasma membrane and to the cytoplasm. Live-cell imaging using a variable-angle epifluorescence microscope revealed that AP2M-GFP transiently forms punctate structures on the plasma membrane. Homozygous ap2m mutant plants exhibited abnormal floral structures, including reduced stamen elongation and delayed anther dehiscence, which led to a failure of pollination and a subsequent reduction of fertility. Our study provides a molecular basis for understanding AP-2–dependent endocytic pathways in plants and their roles in floral organ development and plant reproduction.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains AP-2 subunit homologs: two genes for each of the large subunits (α and β) and single genes for the medium subunit (μ) and the small subunit (σ) (CITATION; CITATION). To be consistent with the nomenclature for AP complexes of other organisms, the following nomenclature is used for the Arabidopsis genes: ADAPTOR PROTEIN-2 ALPHA-ADAPTIN1 (AP2A1) and AP2A2 for α-subunits; ADAPTOR PROTEIN-1/2 BETA-ADAPTIN1 (AP1/2B1) and AP1/2B2 for β-subunits; ADAPTOR PROTEIN-2 MU-ADAPTIN (AP2M) for the μ-subunit; and ADAPTOR PROTEIN-2 SIGMA-ADAPTIN (AP2S) for the σ-subunit. AP2M was formerly denoted as μA (CITATION). To reveal the subcellular localization of AP2M, AP2M-GFP ap2m transformant plants expressing the AP2M protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the endogenous promoter in the ap2m mutant background were generated. In these transformant plants, the ap2m mutant phenotype was complemented (described below), suggesting that the AP2M-GFP fusion protein is functional and behaves similarly to its endogenous counterpart. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that, in the root tip cells of AP2M-GFP ap2m plants, the fluorescence of AP2M-GFP colocalized with FM4-64, a fluorescent lipophilic dye that labels the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION), and was dispersed throughout the cytosol (Figure 1A). Colocalization of AP2M-GFP fluorescence with FM4-64 was also observed in the cotyledon epidermal cells of AP2M-GFP ap2m plants (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Subcellular fractionation of AP2M-GFP ap2m seedlings revealed that a major part of the AP2M-GFP protein was found in the soluble fraction (S100), which accumulated the vacuolar Cys protease aleurain (ALEU) (CITATION; CITATION), whereas a minor part of the AP2M-GFP protein was detected in the microsome fraction (P100), which accumulated the vacuolar SNARE protein VAM3 (CITATION) (Figure 1B). These results suggest that the AP2M protein is predominantly accumulated in the cytosol and is also localized to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] In mammalian cells, the AP-2 complex is recruited to the plasma membrane to interact with cargo proteins during CCV formation (CITATION). To examine whether the plasma membrane localization of AP2M-GFP is dependent on the interaction with cargo proteins, the root tip cells of the AP2M-GFP ap2m seedlings were incubated with the clathrin-mediated endocytosis inhibitor TyrA23. Tyrphostin A51 (TyrA51), which has no effect on the interaction between AP-2 and cargo proteins (CITATION), was used as the negative control. TyrA23 significantly reduced the AP2M-GFP fluorescence at the plasma membrane in a time-dependent manner, although the fluorescence at the plasma membrane was not altered by TyrA51 even after the 2-h incubation (Figure 1C). Quantitative analysis demonstrated that the ratio of the AP2M-GFP fluorescence at the plasma membrane to the cytosol was significantly reduced by the TyrA23 treatment compared with the mock and TyrA51 treatments (Figure 1D). These results indicate that the TyrA23 treatment selectively disrupts AP2M localization to the plasma membrane through interrupting the interaction with cargo proteins. Variable-angle epifluorescence microscopy (VAEM) is a powerful tool to visualize the dynamics of CCV components, including clathrin light chain (CLC) and dynamin-related proteins on the plasma membrane (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To reveal the structure and dynamics of AP2M on the plasma membrane, root cells of AP2M-GFP ap2m plants were analyzed by VAEM. By the perpendicular incidence of the laser to the root cell surface, the AP2M-GFP fluorescence from the cytosol was mainly observed (Figure 2A, epifluorescence). When the incidence angle was changed within the highly oblique yet subcritical angle range against the cell surface, the punctate structures of AP2M-GFP became illuminated (Figure 2A, VAEM). These punctate structures were eliminated after treatment with TyrA23, but not with TyrA51 (Figure 2B), suggesting that the structures are CCV containing the AP2M-GFP protein on the plasma membrane. The punctate structures of AP2M-GFP appeared on the surface of cotyledon epidermal cells at a density of 3.0 ± 0.3 structures per 1 μm2 (n = 9) during 147 s (Figure 2C). Time-lapse imaging demonstrated that the AP2M-GFP structures appeared on the cell surface in a transient manner (Figure 2D; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). Their fluorescence intensities gradually increased and then rapidly decreased (Figures 2D and 2E; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). Quantitative analysis of the fluorescence intensity revealed that the average lifetime of the AP2M-GFP structures was 54.5 s, and ∼75% of the structures disappeared from the cell surface within 1 min (Figure 2F). These observations suggest that AP2M transiently forms the punctate structures of CCV on the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis genome contains two homologous genes for each of the α and β subunits (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This suggests that multiple sets of the different gene products are used to assemble the Arabidopsis AP-2 complex. However, its molecular composition has not been revealed experimentally. To identify which gene products are present in the AP-2 complex, anti-GFP antibody was used to immunoprecipitate detergent-soluble proteins from AP2M-GFP ap2m plants. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP were used as a control. The immunoprecipitated proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and visualized by fluorescent staining. This revealed the isolation of proteins specifically bound to AP2M-GFP, which were not present in the control (Figure 3A). Mass spectrometric analysis of the immunoprecipitated proteins (see Supplemental Tables 1 and 2 online) repeatedly identified AP2A1 (α), AP2A2 (α), AP1/2B1 (β), AP1/2B2 (β), AP2M (μ), and AP2S (σ) (Figure 3C). This suggests that all of the subunits encoded in the Arabidopsis genome are expressed and physically associated with each other to form the AP-2 complex in planta. Simultaneous detection of the two α- and two β-subunits suggests that multiple molecular species of the AP-2 complex composed of different α and β homologous subunits are present in Arabidopsis (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] In mammalian cells, the AP-2 complex interacts with clathrin to form CCV (CITATION). The clathrin heavy chain (CHC) was detected in the first mass spectrometric analysis of the immunoprecipitated proteins from the AP2M-GFP ap2m plants (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Notably, the AP2M-GFP protein was efficiently coimmunoprecipitated with CHC in the absence of salt, whereas it was not in the presence of 150 mM NaCl (Figure 3D). These results suggest that the AP-2 complex is weakly associated with CHC as a component of CCV. To investigate the roles of AP-2 in plant growth and development, homozygous ap2m mutant plants were used for further molecular analysis and morphological dissection. Sequence analysis demonstrated that the ap2m mutant plants harbor a T-DNA insertion in the seventh exon of the AP2M gene (Figure 4A). RT-PCR analysis revealed that homozygous ap2m mutant plants accumulated the 5′ half region of the AP2M transcripts, but neither the full-length nor the 3′half transcripts (Figure 4B). This implies that the ap2m mutant plants might accumulate a truncated from of the AP2M protein lacking the C-terminal region (the red underlined sequence in Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] The ap2m mutant plants exhibited smaller and slender rosette leaves with shorter petioles during vegetative growth compared with wild-type plants (Figure 4C). After bolting, the ap2m mutant plants exhibited unfertilized pistils (Figure 4D) and subsequently produced significantly reduced number of seeds (∼200 seed grains per plant) compared with the wild type (∼2500 seed grains per plant), indicating that fertility of the ap2m mutant plants was severely reduced. These mutant phenotypes were complemented in the AP2M-GFP ap2m plants (Figures 4B to 4D). These results suggest an involvement of AP2M in leaf morphogenesis and the reproductive process. To gain further insight into the role of AP2M in fertility, the floral structures of the ap2m mutant plants were further examined. Compared with the wild type (Figure 5A), the ap2m mutant inflorescences contained morphologically abnormal flowers (Figure 5B). In fully opened wild-type flowers, the stamens were positioned close to the pistils with enough length to reach the stigma (Figure 5C). These organs were tightly surrounded with petals and sepals (Figure 5C). This arrangement of the floral organs leads to efficient pollination (Figure 5D). The ap2m mutant flowers exhibited shorter stamens and incompletely opened petals compared with the wild type (Figure 5E). Dissection of the flowers revealed that the ap2m mutant floral organs exhibited normal numbers and morphology comparable to that of the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), although their stamens and petals were slightly smaller than those of the wild type (Figure 5K). These defects created the pistil-protruding appearance of the mutant flowers (Figures 5E and 5F). The mutant flowers also exhibited a looser overall structure in which the stamens were positioned away from the pistils (Figure 5G). In addition, the ap2m mutant inflorescences contained flowers with undehisced anthers (Figure 5F) and flowers with dehisced anthers (Figure 5H), suggesting that anther dehiscence was delayed in the mutant plants. These defects led to the nonpollinated stigmas observed in most of the mutant flowers (Figure 5F). These multiple defects in the floral structures and reproductive functions of the ap2m mutant plants were complemented by expression of the AP2M-GFP transgene (Figures 5I to 5K; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] To exclude the possibility that the reduced fertility of the ap2m mutant flowers is due to impaired pollen development, the viability and structure of pollen grains were investigated. Fluorescein diacetate staining indicated that mature ap2m pollen exhibited essentially the same viability as that of the wild type under the plant growth conditions of 22°C and 60% relative humidity (Figure 6A). Transmission electron microscopy revealed that the ultrastructure of mature wild-type pollen grains was indistinguishable from that of the ap2m mutant (Figure 6B). These observations suggest that the ap2m mutation does not strongly affect pollen development. Taken together, these observations suggest that AP2M plays a vital role in floral organ development, which is essential for successful fertilization. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A mutant Arabidopsis thaliana line in the SAIL collection, SAIL_165_A05 (background Columbia with the homozygous quartet (qrt1) mutation; CITATION), renamed as ap2m, was obtained from the ABRC. The genotype of this line was confirmed by PCR amplification and sequencing of the genomic DNA fragments using the gene-specific primers and the T-DNA–specific primer. Sequences of the primers are as follows: for the gene-specific primers, 5′-GAGGGGAAATTATATAAACTCACTTCC-3′ and 5′-TATTTCCCGCAATAAATAGAGATTATG-3′; for the T-DNA specific primer, 5′-GCCTTTTCAGAAATGGATAAATAGCCTTGCTTCC-3′. PCR was performed at 96°C for 1 min followed by 35 cycles at 96°C for 15 s, 50°C for 15 s, and 72°C for 1 min, using Ex Taq DNA polymerase (Takara Bio). The homozygous qrt1 mutant plants were used as the wild-type control. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated onto 0.5% (w/v) gellan gum (Wako) medium containing 1% Suc and Murashige and Skoog salts (Wako), which were supplemented with 7.5 mg/L phosphinothricin as required. The seeds were vernalized and germinated under continuous fluorescent-tube light, and 10-d-old seedlings were transferred onto soil and grown at 22°C with 60% relative humidity under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime. The 5-kb sequence including the coding region and the 5′-upstream region of the AP2M gene was amplified using Arabidopsis genomic DNA as template. Sequences of the primer pair are 5′-CACCTGAAACACAAGCATATCGAAGCCAAT-3′ and 5′-GCATCTGATCTCGTAAGATCCCGCTTTCGT-3′. Thirty-five cycles of PCR were performed at 98°C for 10 s, 55°C for 5 s, and 72°C for 25 s using PrimeSTAR Max DNA polymerase (Takara Bio). The amplified fragment was transferred into a binary vector pGWB4 (CITATION) using the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen). The construct was introduced into heterozygous ap2m mutant plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation via the floral dip method (CITATION), and T2 plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion and the transgene were used for further analysis. Total RNA was isolated from 10-d-old seedlings using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) and used for the synthesis of cDNA with Ready-To-Go RT-PCR beads (GE Healthcare) and oligo(dT)12-18 primer (Invitrogen). The cDNA was then used to amplify the full-length coding sequence of AP2M. The partial coding sequence of ACT2, which encodes an actin isoform, was amplified for the loading control. Sequences of the primer pairs are as follows: for full-length AP2M (CDS), 5′-CCGGTGGCTGCTTCCGCCATCTATTTTCTG-3′ and 5′-GCATCTGATCTCGTAAGATCCCGCTTTCGT-3′; for 5′ half of AP2M, 5′-CCGGTGGCTGCTTCCGCCATCTATTTTCTG-3′ and 5′-TCAACCCCAACTTCAAATCAGGCATTCCCG-3′; for 3′ half of AP2M, 5′-ATGATAAAATTGGTCTTGAGAAGGAATCAGAAATG-3′ and 5′-GCATCTGATCTCGTAAGATCCCGCTTTCGT-3′; for ACT2, 5′-AGAGATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTCTTGTTCC-3′ and 5′-AACGATTCCTGGACCTGCCTCATCA-3′. PCR was performed at 96°C for 1 min followed by 30 cycles at 96°C for 15 s, 50°C for 15 s, and 72°C for 90 and 30 s for AP2M and ACT2, respectively, using Ex Taq DNA polymerase (Takara Bio). The PCR products were separated on 1% agarose gel and visualized by ethidium bromide staining. Fluorescence from root tip cells and cotyledon epidermal cells of 4- to 6-d-old AP2M-GFP seedlings stained with 0.5 μM FM4-64 were excited with a 488-nm 25-mW Ar/Kr laser and a 561-nm 20-mW diode-pumped solid-state laser. The images were acquired with a Carl Zeiss LSM780 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a ×63 C-Apochromat water immersion objective (numerical aperture = 1.2). Images were processed using LSM image examiner software (Carl Zeiss) and Adobe Photoshop CS4 version 11.0.2 (Adobe Systems). Fluorescence from root tip cells and cotyledon epidermal cells of 4- to 6-d-old AP2M-GFP seedlings were excited with a Coherent Sapphire 488-nm laser. The epifluorescence and VAEM images were acquired with an Olympus IX83 fluorescence microscope equipped with an IX2-RFAEVA total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy system and a ×100 UApoN OTIRF oil immersion objective (numerical aperture = 1.49). Images were processed using MetaMorph version 7.8 (Molecular Devices) and Image J version 1.47q. A macro routine was designed to measure fluorescence intensity and lifetime of the punctate structures: Time series of VAEM image data were corrected for photobleaching and averaged to obtain the fluorescence maxima. Fluorescence intensity of the maxima at each time point was measured and then the time intensity curves of the maxima were subjected to smoothing by the Savitzky-Golay filter (CITATION) and subsequent differentiation followed by resmoothing. The corresponding differential curves were then used to obtain durations between their maximum and minimum, which indicate the lifetimes of the AP2M-GFP punctate structures. Approximately 3 g of 7-d-old seedlings of the AP2M-GFP plants were chopped with a razor blade in a Petri dish on ice in 9 mL of chopping buffer containing 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 300 mM Suc, and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche), filtered through a cell strainer with 70-μm pores (BD Biosciences), and centrifuged at 1000g for 10 min at 4°C. Four milliliters of the supernatant was used as the total fraction, and the second 4 mL was centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The pellet (P10) was resuspended in 4 mL of chopping buffer, and the supernatant was further centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min at 4°C. The pellet (P100, microsome fraction) was resuspended in 4 mL of chopping buffer, and the supernatant was used as the S100 (soluble) fraction. Aliquots of the total, P10, P100, and S100 suspensions were separated by SDS-PAGE and used for immunoblot analysis using anti-VAM3 antibody (CITATION) and anti-ALEU antibody (CITATION). The remaining suspensions were mixed with magnetic beads conjugated with anti-GFP antibody (Miltenyi Biotec), incubated on ice for 30 min, and then applied to μ-Columns (Miltenyi Biotec) in a magnetic field. After washing the column with chopping buffer, the immunoprecipitates were eluted with 50 μL of 2 × SDS sample buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 4% [w/v] SDS, 20% [w/v] glycerol, and 5% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol), separated by SDS-PAGE, and used for immunoblot analysis using a monoclonal anti-GFP antibody (JL-8; Clontech). Full scans of the immunoblots shown in Figure 1B are provided (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Approximately 1 g of 7-d-old seedlings of the AP2M-GFP plants and the transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP were homogenized on ice in 3 mL of buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100, and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) and centrifuged at 20,000g for 15 min at 4°C. The supernatants were immunoprecipitated as described above, separated by SDS-PAGE, and stained with Flamingo Gel Stain (Bio-Rad). The immunoprecipitates were then digested in-gel with 0.01 mg/mL trypsin and examined by mass spectrometry according to the methods described previously (CITATION). Approximately 0.5 g of 7-d-old seedlings of the AP2M-GFP plants and the transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP were homogenized on ice in 1.5 mL of buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 1% (v/v) Triton X-100, and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) in the presence and absence of 150 mM NaCl and then centrifuged at 20,000g for 15 min at 4°C. The supernatants were immunoprecipitated as described above, separated by SDS-PAGE, and used for immunoblot analysis using the monoclonal anti-GFP antibody and a polyclonal anti-CHC antibody (a gift from D.G. Robinson and P. Oliviusson). Full scans of the immunoblots shown in Figure 3D are provided (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). Pollen grains were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and 2% glutaraldehyde in 50 mM cacodylate buffer, pH 7.4, at 4°C overnight followed by further fixation with 2% osmium tetroxide in 50 mM cacodylate buffer at 4°C for 10 h. After dehydration with a series of aqueous ethanol solutions followed by propylene oxide, they were embedded in resin, ultrathin sectioned using an ultramicrotome (Leica), and stained with 2% uranyl acetate. The images were acquired by a JEM-1200EX transmission electron microscope (JEOL) equipped with an Olympus VELETA charge-coupled device digital camera and processed using Adobe Photoshop CS4. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At5g22770 (AP2A1), At5g22780 (AP2A2), At4g11380 (AP1/2B1), At4g23460 (AP1/2B2), At5g46630 (AP2M), At1g47830 (AP2S), At1g60780 (AP1M2), At3g18780 (ACT2), NP_004059.2 (Homo sapiens AP-2 μ-subunit), NP_446289.1 (Rattus norvegicus AP-2 μ-subunit), NP_732744.1 (Drosophila melanogaster AP-2 μ-subunit), NP_001024865.1 (Caenorhabditis elegans AP-2 μ-subunit), and NP_592921.1 (Schizosaccharomyces pombe AP-2 μ-subunit). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Confocal Images of the Cotyledon Epidermal Cells of AP2M-GFP ap2m Seedling. Supplemental Figure 2. Sequence Alignment of the AP-2 μ-Subunits from Various Eukaryotes and the Predicted AP2M Sequence Expressed in the ap2m Mutant Plants. Supplemental Figure 3. Morphology of Floral Organs Dissected from Wild-Type, Homozygous ap2m Mutant, and AP2M-GFP ap2m Plants. Supplemental Figure 4. Full Scans of the Immunoblots Shown in Figures 1B and 3D. Supplemental Table 1. List of the Immunoprecipitated Proteins from AP2M-GFP ap2m Seedlings Identified by the First LTQ-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometric Analysis. Supplemental Table 2. List of the Immunoprecipitated Proteins from AP2M-GFP ap2m Seedlings Identified by the Second LTQ-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometric Analysis. Supplemental Movie 1. Transient Formation of AP2M-GFP Punctate Structures on the Plasma Membrane of a Cotyledon Epidermal Cell of an AP2M-GFP ap2m Seedling.
