!~ABS~! To characterize the mechanism through which myosin XI-K attaches to its principal endomembrane cargo, a yeast two-hybrid library of Arabidopsis thaliana cDNAs was screened using the myosin cargo binding domain as bait. This screen identified two previously uncharacterized transmembrane proteins (hereinafter myosin binding proteins or MyoB1/2) that share a myosin binding, conserved domain of unknown function 593 (DUF593). Additional screens revealed that MyoB1/2 also bind myosin XI-1, whereas myosin XI-I interacts with the distantly related MyoB7. The in vivo interactions of MyoB1/2 with myosin XI-K were confirmed by immunoprecipitation and colocalization analyses. In epidermal cells, the yellow fluorescent protein–tagged MyoB1/2 localize to vesicles that traffic in a myosin XI–dependent manner. Similar to myosin XI-K, MyoB1/2 accumulate in the tip-growing domain of elongating root hairs. Gene knockout analysis demonstrated that functional cooperation between myosin XI-K and MyoB proteins is required for proper plant development. Unexpectedly, the MyoB1-containing vesicles did not correspond to brefeldin A–sensitive Golgi and post-Golgi or prevacuolar compartments and did not colocalize with known exocytic or endosomal compartments. Phylogenomic analysis suggests that DUF593 emerged in primitive land plants and founded a multigene family that is conserved in all flowering plants. Collectively, these findings indicate that MyoB are membrane-anchored myosin receptors that define a distinct, plant-specific transport vesicle compartment.
!~RES~! To characterize the mechanism of myosin XI-K attachment to its principal cargo, we performed a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) screen using the Universal Arabidopsis Normalized Library and myosin XI-K GTD as the bait. Diploids were selected on 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole–containing medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His. The resulting colonies were streaked on minus-Leu/Trp/His/Ade plates with X-α-Gal (for 5-Bromo-4-Chloro-3-indolyl alpha-D-galactopyranoside) to select for the metabolic gene activity and activation of the α-galactosidase reporter. Growth-competent blue clones were analyzed by PCR and sequencing. A total of 37 clones were identified by screening under these relatively stringent conditions. Intriguingly, 14 clones contained various cDNA fragments of the same gene AT1go88oo encoding a previously uncharacterized, ∼125-kD protein. Preliminary bioinformatic analysis identified an N-terminal transmembrane domain (TM) and a highly conserved coiled-coil domain of unknown function (DUF593). As is common for cDNA library screens, all positive clones lacked the 5′-part of the open reading frame (ORF) encoding TM, thus allowing for nuclear import that is required for the Y2H screen. Among the remaining clones, eight corresponded to two genes (At1g70750 and At5g16720) (Figure 1A) that were paralogs of AT1go88oo and encoded related TM- and DUF593-containing proteins of 86 and 77 kD, respectively. Given the high representation of the three paralogous genes in the screen and the presence of a predicted membrane-anchoring domain and the DUF593 domain that is highly conserved in plants (CITATION) and is predicted to adopt a coiled-coil structure (a signature of diverse protein–protein interactions) (CITATION), we considered these genes to be strong candidates for encoding the myosin XI-K receptor. Accordingly, the 125-, 86-, and 77-kD proteins mentioned above were dubbed myosin binding proteins or MyoB 1-3, respectively. [[FIGURE]] To validate the physical interaction between full-size MyoB and myosin XI-K, we used the pull-down assays, with Escherichia coli–expressed myosin XI-K GTD fused to maltose binding protein (MBP-GTD), and MyoB1 or MyoB2 that were fused to yellow fluorescent protein (MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP) and expressed transiently in Nicotiana benthamiana. The MBP- or GFP-fused bacterial β-glucuronidase variants (MBP-GUS and green fluorescent protein [GFP]-GUS, respectively) were used as controls for binding specificity. As shown in Figure 1B, both MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP bound MBP-GTD but not MBP-GUS, whereas, as expected, GFP-GUS bound only MBP-GUS due to the known ability of GUS to dimerize (CITATION). To determine whether MyoB1 interacts with full-size myosin XI-K in vivo, we coexpressed Arabidopsis MyoB1-YFP and myosin XI-K in N. benthamiana and performed coimmunoprecipitation assays using GFP-specific antibody immobilized on agarose beads. As shown in Figure 1C, myosin XI-K specifically coimmunoprecipitated with MyoB1 but not with free GFP. Our analysis of the 22 interaction-positive clones isolated in the Y2H screen revealed 3′-terminal fragments of MyoB1-3 of various sizes, all of which encoded the DUF593 domain, suggesting that this domain is responsible for binding the myosin XI-K GTD. To test this prediction, we expressed the DUF593 domain of MyoB2 fused to GFP (dufMyoB2-GFP) and used an N-terminal fragment of MyoB2 of a similar molecular mass fused to GFP (NMyoB2-GFP) as specificity control. As shown in Figure 1D, these pull-down assays with MBP-GTD confirmed that DUF593 was sufficient for myosin binding. To investigate the ability of MyoB to interact with other Arabidopsis myosins XI, we performed a Y2H screen using the Arabidopsis cDNA library and the GTD of myosin XI-1, a closely related myosin XI-K paralog (CITATION), as bait. This screen yielded 30 interaction-positive clones, 18 of which harbored various fragments of MyoB1 and MyoB2 cDNAs, suggesting that interaction with MyoB is a common property of plant myosins XI (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This inference was strongly supported by an additional screen in which the bait was a GTD of myosin XI-I that is divergent from both myosin XI-K and XI-1. Strikingly, this screen also yielded a DUF593-containing protein that is encoded by At5g06560 and is distantly related to MyoB1-3; this protein was designated MyoB7 (see phylogenetic analysis below). The pairwise Y2H assays using XI-I GTD detected interactions with MyoB1, but not MyoB2 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Taken together, the results of these experiments show that distinct MyoB proteins are capable of interacting with the specific subsets of myosins XI in vitro and in vivo via direct binding between DUF593 and the myosin GTD. Because MyoB proteins also contain a predicted TM region, they are strong candidates for the core vesicular myosin XI receptors. To characterize the pattern of subcellular localization of MyoB1 and MyoB2, we tagged each of these proteins by fusing YFP to their C termini. The modified genomic clones of MYOB1 (AT1go88oo) and MYOB2 (At1g70750), including their native promoters, were transformed into the Arabidopsis myob1 and myob2 gene knockout backgrounds (see below), respectively, in order to express the MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP to levels similar to those of wild-type MyoB1 and MyoB2. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) using plants expressing MyoB1-YFP or MyoB2-YFP revealed motile “beads-on-a-string” structures in elongated leaf epidermal cells (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online) that closely resembled those described for myosin XI-K:YFP (CITATION). This pattern was observed in over 90% of the imaged cells (n ≥ 20). [[FIGURE]] Because the TM of MyoB7 is located at the C terminus of the protein, the genomic clone of At5g06560 was modified to accommodate a YFP tag downstream of the translation initiation codon. The resulting YFP-MYOB7 clone was transformed into Arabidopsis, and YFP-MyoB7 localization in the leaf epidermal cells was examined by CLSM. As shown in Figure 2A (right panel) and Supplemental Movie 3 online, this reporter tagged motile bodies whose appearance was similar to those tagged by MyoB1-YFP and Myob2-YFP. Interestingly, these bodies were much more sparse compared with the denser flow of the MyoB1-YFP– or MyoB2-YFP–tagged bodies. This outcome suggested that the cargoes driven by interactions between myosins XI-K/XI-1 and MyoB1 and MyoB2 on one hand, and those driven by the interaction between myosin XI-I and MyoB7 on the other hand, might perform distinct functions. Further analysis of the MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP distribution revealed essentially identical localization patterns in root epidermal cells (Figure 2B). Notably, both MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP concentrated in the tip-growing domains of rapidly elongating but not mature root hairs (Figures 2C and 2D), again a pattern similar to that of myosin XI-K:YFP (CITATION) and other proteins involved in polarized cell growth (CITATION). The close resemblance of the MyoB1-YFP and MyoB2-YFP localization patterns to those of myosin XI-K:YFP in distinct cell types implies that each of these candidate myosin receptors is associated with the cargoes whose trafficking is driven by this myosin. To further validate the endomembrane nature of the round structures labeled with MyoB1-YFP, we performed subcellular fractionation and found that >95% of MyoB1-YFP was present in the 100,000g microsomal pellet (Figure 2E). Treatment of this pellet with Triton X-100 resulted in solubilization of MyoB1-YFP as is expected for a membrane-associated protein and in complete accordance with the results obtained for myosin XI-K (CITATION). To determine whether the targeting of MyoB to membranes depended on the predicted transmembrane region of this protein, we transgenically expressed the N-terminal portion of MyoB2 (residues 1 to 61) in Arabidopsis Columbia plants as a GFP fusion. The observed subcellular distribution pattern was similar to that of full-size MyoB2-YFP (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), which led us to conclude that the TM region was sufficient for the membrane targeting of MyoB1. To determine whether the trafficking of MyoB1-YFP–tagged cargo was myosin dependent, the MyoB1-YFP gene was transformed into plants with three distinct genetic backgrounds: Columbia, xi-k, and xi-k xi-1 xi-2. As shown previously, the mean velocities of organelle trafficking in the xi-k gene knockout are reduced (CITATION), whereas in the triple myosin gene knockout, the entire intracellular endomembrane transport is nearly halted (CITATION). As seen in Figure 3A, inactivation of myosin XI-K resulted in a partial redistribution of MyoB1-YFP that was no longer limited to linear tracks, as well as in a slower motion of the marker-tagged material (see Supplemental Movie 4 online). An even more dramatic picture was observed in a triple gene knockout where MyoB1-YFP was distributed more diffusively and was essentially immotile (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Movie 5 online). We assume that in the latter case, MyoB1-YFP remained associated with the membranes although this assumption was not validated experimentally. [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) was used to further characterize and quantify the effects observed in the triple myosin knockout plants. The FRAP measurements showed nearly complete recovery of the MyoB1-YFP fluorescence in ∼10 s after photobleaching in the Columbia plants (Figures 3B and 3C; see Supplemental Movie 6 online). The velocity with which the front of the fluorescent material was moving into the photobleached area (Figure 3C) was 6.32 ± 1.20 μm/s (n = 20), a value very close to the 7 μm/s velocity that has been reported for plant myosin XI in vitro (CITATION). Strikingly, no statistically significant recovery of the MyoB1-YFP fluorescence was observed in xi-k/1/2 plants over the observation period (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Movie 7 online), indicating that inactivation of the three highly expressed myosins XI (CITATION) arrested the trafficking of MyoB1-YFP–tagged cargo. Collectively, these results demonstrated that MyoB1 and MyoB2 are associated with endomembranes that presumably form vesicles and are rapidly transported in a myosin XI–dependent manner. For the sake of brevity, hereinafter we will refer to the MyoB1/2-associated membranous cargoes of myosin XI-K as “vesicles,” although their size and morphology are yet to be determined by ultrastructural analysis. To validate the association of MyoB1 and myosin XI-K in Arabidopsis cells, we used dual fluorophore real-time imaging and subcellular gradient fractionation. MyoB1-GFP and myosin XI-K:mCherry were coexpressed in the xi-k xi-1 xi-2 triple knockout background; MyoB1-GFP rather than MyoB1-YFP was used in these experiments to ensure confident separation of the spectra of the two fluorophores. As shown previously, fluorophore-tagged myosin XI-K is fully functional and rescues the defective growth phenotype in the triple knockout plants (CITATION). Strikingly, we found that the beads-on-a-string labeled by either MyoB1-GFP or myosin XI-K:mCherry colocalized in 100% of the imaged cells (n = 44; Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] Isopycnic Suc gradient fractionation of Arabidopsis leaf extracts described previously revealed comigration of myosin XI-K with some endomembrane markers, including an ER marker (CITATION; CITATION). We performed a similar fractionation analysis with MyoB1-YFP–expressing plants and analyzed individual fractions by immunoblotting using GFP-, myosin XI-K-, ER-, and prevacuolar compartment (PVC)–specific antibodies. The observed coincidence of the MyoB1-YFP and myosin XI-K peaks (see Supplemental Figure 3 online) was fully compatible with a physical interaction between these two proteins. As expected, these peaks closely corresponded to the ER peak but were well separated from PVC. We concluded that both the colocalization and gradient fractionation experiments corroborated an in vivo association of MyoB1 and myosin XI-K. Taken together with the myosin-dependent trafficking of the MyoB1-containing vesicles (Figure 3), these data strongly support a role of MyoB as functional membrane-anchored receptors for the myosins XI in Arabidopsis. We found previously that the myosin XI-K–decorated vesicles are transported along F-actin filaments and exhibit only limited overlap with Golgi stacks or post-Golgi vesicle clusters containing SECRETORY CARRIER MEMBRANE PROTEIN2 (SCAMP2) (CITATION). To gain further insight into the nature of these transport vesicles defined by the MyoB–myosin interactions, we employed a pharmacological approach complemented by colocalization analyses using several endomembrane compartment-specific markers. Brefeldin A (BFA) is a potent inhibitor of secretory transport affecting the formation of COPI vesicles that is critical for the ER-Golgi interface dynamics (CITATION) and causes fusion of Golgi stacks with the ER network (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Accordingly, in control experiments with BFA, we observed absorption of Golgi by the ER in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a Golgi marker alone or in combination with a spectrally distinct ER marker (Figure 4C). Furthermore, BFA treatment caused redistribution of the trans-Golgi network compartment marked by the small Rab GTPase YFP:RabA4b (CITATION; CITATION). Instead of the relatively small vesicular bodies that were observed in untreated cells, in the BFA-treated cells, this marker localized primarily to large cistern-like bodies (Figure 4C). Surprisingly, BFA treatment had no observable effect on the vesicles tagged by MyoB1-GFP (Figure 4C). This result indicated that the MyoB1-containing vesicles do not belong to the BFA-sensitive secretory compartment. To further decipher the relationships between exocytic and MyoB1-decorated vesicles, we coexpressed MyoB1-GFP with the exocytic vesicle marker mCherry-VAMP721, one of the plant v-SNAREs (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 4B, the two markers did not colocalize; even those few mCherry-VAMP721–labeled vesicles that were present along the string of MyoB1-GFP–labeled vesicles did not coincide with the latter, but rather were located between them (arrows in Figure 4B). Thus, the MyoB1-containing vesicles do not appear to belong to a major secretory trafficking pathway. To investigate the potential relationship between MyoB1- and myosin XI-K–decorated vesicles and endocytic pathways, we analyzed the relative localization of MyoB1-GFP and the endocytic compartments defined by clathrin and flotillin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Little spatial overlap was observed between the marker of clathrin-coated vesicles, mCherry-tagged clathrin light chain 2 (CLC2-mCherry) (CITATION), and MyoB1-GFP (Figure 4D). Only a few CLC2-mCherry–labeled bodies localized within the strings of the MyoB1-GFP bodies, but even these did not correspond in size and shape to the adjacent MyoB1-GFP bodies (arrows in Figure 4D). An even lesser degree of colocalization was found between MyoB1-GFP and flotillin1:mCherry (Flot1:mCherry) (CITATION), a marker of the clathrin-independent exocytic pathway (Figure 4E). Thus, there was no significant overlap between the MyoB1-GFP–decorated motile vesicles and at least two distinct endocytic compartments. In conclusion, the presented data indicate that the motile vesicles decorated by myosin XI-K and its putative transmembrane receptor MyoB1 do not correspond to several major exocytic and endocytic compartments and most likely represent a distinct class of transport vesicles that was not described previously. Previously, a DUF593-containing protein was identified as the product of the Floury1 gene involved in zein protein body formation in maize (Zea mays) endosperm, and a large family of homologous DUF593-containing proteins was identified in rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (CITATION). Given the recent vast expansion in the number of sequenced plant genomes, we sought to gain a broader insight into the origin and evolution of this group of proteins. A PSI-BLAST search in the Refseq database identified 173 DUF593-containing proteins in all sequenced genomes of land plants including the nonvascular moss Physcomitrella patens, the vascular spikemoss Selaginella moellendorffii, and flowering plants, both monocots and dicots (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). All of these plants encompass multiple, paralogous DUF593-encoding genes. Specifically, in Arabidopsis, 15 genes encode a complete DUF593 domain and one gene (At2g24140) encodes an apparently incomplete one. We constructed a multiple alignment of all identified DUF593 domains (101 informative positions; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online) and used it to generate a maximum- likelihood phylogenetic tree. The resulting tree topology implies that, after the divergence from the common ancestor with the mosses, at least three families of DUF593-containing proteins, each represented in most monocots and dicots, evolved in the stem phase of the evolution of the flowering plants (Magnoliophyta) (i.e., antedating the last common ancestor of all extant plants in this phylum) (Figure 5A). The monophyly of each of these three families is supported either by a very high bootstrap value (92 and 86% for families I and II, respectively) or by a moderate bootstrap value (55% for family III) and was also reproduced using the FastTree method of phylogenetic tree construction (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Moreover, each family further split into at least two subfamilies (albeit some weakly supported by bootstrap values) that are present in the major groups of both dicots and monocots and probably are ancestral as well (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] We further analyzed the sequences of the DUF593-containing proteins to identify additional domains, transmembrane helices, and coiled-coil regions. These proteins show notable variability of domain architectures but also share common structural features, at least at the level of the six subfamilies (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). The DUF593 itself is confidently predicted to adopt a coiled-coil structure, thus representing a rare case of a coiled-coil domain that maintains a strong identity over hundreds of millions years of evolution, rather than showing generic similarity to numerous other structures of this type (CITATION). In addition, many proteins in the DUF593 superfamily contain other strongly predicted coiled-coil regions, typically near the C terminus (Figure 5B). The majority of the proteins in this superfamily also contain a single, strongly predicted transmembrane helix that in most cases is located near the N terminus (e.g., in MyoB1-3) but in a minority of the proteins resides near the C terminus (e.g., in MyoB7; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). The confident prediction of transmembrane helices but not signal peptides in the majority of the DUF593 superfamily proteins is compatible with their localization in intracellular membranes distinct from the ER membranes. Finally, the majority of the DUF593-containing proteins possess distinct regions with specific patterns of Cys residues (in one case, also involving a His) that are conserved within the families or subfamilies (Figure 5B). Three such patterns were detected: MBR I motif, C-x(2)-C-x(13-27)-C-x(2)-H-x(9-13)-C-x(2)-C-x(18-69)-C-x(2)-C; MBR II motif, CC-x(1-3)-C-x-C-x(1-2)-C; and MBR III motif, C-x(∼47)-C-P-C-x(6-11)-C. These patterns of conserved Cys residues resemble those in known metal binding domains, such as zinc--fingers, and could be implicated in the chelation of transitional cations, such as Zn2+ (hence, the designation MBR, after metal binding region). However, the MBR regions in the DUF593 proteins are predicted to adopt α-helical structures and so are unrelated to Zn-fingers that form β-hairpins (CITATION). If the prediction of metal binding is experimentally validated, the MBRs will comprise a distinct class of metal binding protein modules. Thus, MyoB1-3, MyoB7, and Floury1 belong to the families I, II, and III, respectively, of the large superfamily of DUF593-containing proteins that apparently emerged in land plants. Given the high level of DUF593 sequence conservation (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online), it seems likely that the myosin binding described here is a common property of this domain, whereas the ability of Floury1 to bind maize-specific zeins is a specific feature of this ER-associated protein (CITATION). This hypothesis is in agreement with the recently described roles of the Opaque1-encoded myosin XI in ER motility and maize protein body formation (CITATION), which suggest cooperation between Floury1 and myosin in this process. Furthermore, the interaction between myosin XI-I and MyoB7, a family II member, described here provides further evidence in support of the functional partnership between myosins XI and the entire superfamily of DUF593-containing proteins. Bioinformatics analysis of the DUF593 superfamily suggested both functional specialization (based on distinct domain architectures among proteins from six subfamilies) and a degree of functional redundancy (supported by the high level of similarity between some paralogs [e.g., MyoB2 and MyoB3]) among the superfamily members. To determine the functions of MyoB proteins in plant development, we focused on the family I members of which at least MyoB1-3 interact with the principal Arabidopsis myosin XI-K. This analysis also included At2g30690, a closely related paralog of MyoB1 (Figure 5A) designated MyoB4. Analogously to myosins XI (CITATION), the analysis of the growth phenotypes of the four single gene knockout lines myob1, myob2, myob3, and myob4, as well as of the double gene knockout myob2 myob3 (2KO), revealed no statistically significant differences with the Columbia control (Figures 6A and 6B). However, the triple knockout myob1 myob2 myob3 (3KO) and the quadruple knockout myob1 myob2 myob3 myob4 (4KO) plants exhibited a statistically significant height reduction compared with the Columbia control (∼8 and ∼15%, respectively; Figure 6A; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Interestingly, the 4KO but not 3KO mutant showed a modest, ∼8% reduction in rosette diameter (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). [[FIGURE]] Because a physical interaction between MyoB1-3 and myosin XI-K implies that they function in the same transport pathway and might interact genetically, we characterized synthetic knockout mutants in which both myosin XI-K and subsets of MyoB proteins were inactivated. Strikingly, the xi-k myob2 myob3, xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3, and xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3 myob4 mutants showed highly significant progressive defects in stem growth (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online): Their height was reduced by 12, 33, and 66%, respectively, relative to the corresponding controls (Figure 6A). However, no statistically significant differences in leaf rosette diameter were found in each of the three synthetic knockout mutants, indicating that cooperation between myosin XI-K and MyoB1-4 is more important for the growth of stems than it is for the growth of leaves. Further analysis of the mutant plants revealed significant delays in the onset of flowering. As shown in Figure 6C, 2KO, 3KO, and 4KO plants, as well as the xi-k plant line, each exhibited an ∼2-d flowering delay compared with the Columbia control (although the statistical significance of this delay was variable, depending on the time of measurement; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Examination of the synthetic mutants revealed additional flowering delays of 2 and 5 d for the xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3 and xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3 myob4 lines, compared with their respective 3KO and 4KO controls (Figure 6C; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online), and a dramatic 1-week delay relative to Columbia plants (Figures 6C and 6D). Therefore, simultaneous inactivation of myosin XI-K and three or four of its MyoB interaction partners resulted in progressive defects in plant growth and flowering onset, implying shared functions of these proteins in plant development. It should be stressed that the phenotypes of the multiple myob1-4 knockout mutants and synthetic multiple myosin xi-k myob1-4 knockout mutants partially phenocopy those of the triple and quadruple myosin XI mutants (CITATION), further supporting the functional interdependence of myosins XI and their MyoB receptors.
!~MM~! The Y2H analysis was based on the Matchmaker GAL4-based assay (Clontech). The cDNAs encoding GTDs of Arabidopsis thaliana myosin XI-K (amino acid residues Thr-1058 to Ser1531), XI-1 (Thr-1048 to Asp-1520), and XI-I (Ile-1059 to Ile-1522) (CITATION) were cloned into pGBKT7 bait plasmid and introduced into Y2H Gold yeast strain. Testing for autoactivation and toxicity of the GTD was performed according to the manufacturer’s protocols. A Mate and Plate Normalized Arabidopsis Universal Library (Clontech) was used for mating, and screening was performed on SD medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His and supplemented with 10 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. After 7 d at 30°C, growing yeast colonies were streaked on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His/-Ade medium containing X-α-Gal. Colonies that turned blue in the presence of the chromogenic substrate were grown in liquid SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His/-Ade medium, and plasmids were isolated and sequenced. In addition, GTD cDNAs of the myosin XI-1 and XI-I were cloned into the pGBKT7 and cotransformed with the prey plasmids harboring MyoB1 and MyoB2 cDNAs into Y2H Gold yeast strain and plated as described above. GFP fused to the GAL4 activation domain was used as a negative control for the interaction tests. The myosin XI-K GTD cDNA or a GUS cDNA was subcloned into a pMAL vector as fusions with MBP (New England Biolabs) and introduced into the Escherichia coli BL21(DE3)LysS strain. Expression of the fusion proteins was induced by isopropylthio-β-galactoside (0.5 mM) at 28°C for 6 h. Cells were resuspended in PBS containing 0.5% Triton X-100, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche Applied Science), freeze-thawed, sonicated, and centrifuged (16,000g, 4°C). Supernatants were incubated with Amylose resin (New England Biolabs) for 1 h and washed with the same buffer. Partial cDNAs of MyoB2 ORF encoding putative TM and MBRs (TM-MBR) (amino acid residues 1 to 169) or DUF593 (residues 399 to 536) were subcloned in frame with the GFP cDNA in a pMDC32 binary plasmid using AscI and PacI sites. A GFP-GUS hybrid cDNA or a GFP cDNA were cloned into pMDC32 and used as interaction negative controls. Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 transformed with the binary vectors and kept for 2 d in the greenhouse. Leaves were ground in 3 volumes of 20 mM HEPES, pH 7.2, 50 mM potassium acetate, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM EGTA, 5% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail on ice. Homogenates were centrifuged at 8000g for 10 min, mixed with the MBP fusion protein loaded Amylose beads, incubated with slow shaking for 1 h, washed, and boiled in SDS sample buffer. For the coimmunoprecipitation assay, the YFP-tagged MyoB1 was transiently expressed in N. benthamiana. Plant extracts were incubated with the agarose-immobilized anti-GFP rat monoclonal antibodies (Medical and Biological Laboratories) for 1 h on ice. After washes, the beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer, and bound proteins were resolved in a 10% SDS-PAGE and detected by immunoblotting using anti-GFP rabbit polyclonal antibody (Rockland Immunochemicals) or myosin XI-K–specific antibody (CITATION). A 5580-bp-long genomic fragment encompassing the MYOB1 (At1g08800) gene and its putative promoter was PCR amplified from the genomic DNA using KOD Hot Start high-fidelity DNA polymerase (Novagen) and cloned into a modified pMDC32 plasmid using the SbfI and PacI sites. The YFP cDNA was added downstream from MyoB1 ORF to yield a pMDC-gAt1g08800-YFP. This plasmid was mobilized into Agrobacterium GV3101 for floral dipping transformation of Arabidopsis Columbia plants, as well as the myob1 knockout line (SALK_150594), xi-k knockout line (SALK_067972)(CITATION), and xi-k xi-1 xi-2 triple knockout plants (CITATION). Likewise, a 4452-bp-long genomic segment encompassing the MyoB2 (At1g70750) and the upstream promoter region was cloned to obtain pMDC-gAt1g70750-YFP that was used to transform Columbia and the myob2 knockout plant line (SALK_029986). Analogously, a 3938-bp genomic fragment of MYOB7 (At5g06560), including its native promoter, was cloned into a pMDC32 plasmid. A GFP ORF was added upstream from the MyoB7 ORF, and the resulting pMDC-GFP-gAt5g06560 plasmid was used to transform Columbia-0 plants. To generate a dual MyoB1-GFP/XI-K:mCherry expression vector, a GFP cDNA was substituted for the YFP cDNA in the pMDC-gAt1g08800-YFP. An entire GFP-tagged genomic copy of MyoB1 was amplified using high-fidelity DNA polymerase from Thermococcus kodakaraensis (KOD1) and cloned into a unique MauBI site of the pMDC carrying a mCherry-tagged genomic copy of the Arabidopsis XI-K gene (CITATION). A resulting plasmid was used to transform myosin triple knockout plants. To generate a marker of exocytic vesicles, a genomic copy of the v-SNARE VAMP721 (AT1G04750) (CITATION), including its native promoter, was PCR amplified and the mCherry ORF was added before the first codon of the VAMP721 ORF using overlapping PCRs. The resulting construct was cloned into pMDC32 using SbfI and PacI sites. To visualize clathrin-coated endocytic vesicles, a genomic copy of Arabidopsis clathrin light chain (AT2G40060) including its promoter was fused to mCherry and cloned to pMDC32 as described above. A marker of clathrin-independent endocytosis, Arabidopsis Flotillin1 (AT5G25250) (CITATION) was fused to mCherry and placed under control of a 35S promoter using AscI and PacI sites of pMDC32. An expression cassette for the GFP-tagged genomic MyoB1 was added to these plasmids using the unique MauBI site, and the resulting dual-cassette plasmids were used to transform the myob1 knockout line. Arabidopsis seedlings expressing fluorophore-tagged proteins were treated with 50 μM BFA for 2 h, and the BFA-sensitive endomembrane compartments were imaged using the following markers: Golgi markers N-acetylglucosaminyl transferase fused to GFP (NAG-GFP) (CITATION) and Golgi-resident rat sialyl transferase (ST-YFP), a cyan fluorescent protein–tagged ER marker (CITATION), YFP-AtRabA4b, a marker of the trans-Golgi network to plasma membrane trafficking pathway (CITATION). Multicolor observation was performed using an LSM510 Meta confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). GFP, YFP, and mCherry were excited with 488- or 514-nm argon laser lines or a 561-nm HeNe laser line, respectively. The fluorescence emission spectra were collected through a band-pass 505- to 530-nm (GFP), band-pass 530- to 600-nm (YFP), or band-pass 560- to 615-nm (mCherry) filter. For the simultaneous visualization of two fluorophores, dual channel acquisition of the GFP and mCherry signal was done sequentially to minimize crosstalk. In each imaging analysis, over 20 different cells from at least five leaves were screened. The images shown in Figures 2 to 4 are representative of over 90% of the screened cells. The microscopy setup for FRAP measurements was described previously (CITATION). Briefly, both argon (all lines) and diode 405-nm lasers were used at maximum output power for 8 s to bleach a defined region of a cell. Recovery was monitored at 5% argon laser intensity as time series (18 frames over 30-s recovery time). Two identical regions of interest were monitored: One was inside and one was outside of the bleached area. The fluorescence in the regions of interest was quantified using Zeiss LSM software. Each FRAP value shown in Figure 3B corresponds to a mean and sd from 10 distinct measurements. pMDC-gAt1g08800-YFP described above was used to produce transgenic Arabidopsis plants by the floral dipping method (CITATION). T2 seeds were plated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2% Suc, 0.6% Phytagel, and 25 μg/mL hygromycin, and plants were grown for 2 weeks under normal growth conditions (23°C, 16 h light/8 h dark). Plant homogenates were prepared as described (CITATION). A 1000 g supernatant was centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h with or without the addition of 1% Triton X-100. Suc density gradient fractionation was performed as described (CITATION); a separation pattern shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online is representative of four independent experiments. The PSI-BLAST (CITATION) search (with an inclusion threshold E-value = 10−4, low complexity masking, and composition-based statistics off) with a query sequence corresponding to the DUF593 domain region (402 to 515 amino acids) of At1g70750 against the Refseq database (CITATION) was used to identify the proteins containing the DUF593 domain. The MUSCLE program with default parameters (CITATION) was used to construct a multiple sequence alignment of the DUF593 domain. Identical and incomplete sequences were discarded prior to further analysis. Altogether, 172 nonredundant sequences were further analyzed. The maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree was constructed using the RAxML program, with the WAG substitution matrix and gamma-distributed evolutionary rates (CITATION); the bootstrap support was computed over 1000 replications using the extended majority rule. Search for conserved protein domains was performed using the RPS-BLAST program (CITATION). The Trans Membrane Hidden Markov Model (CITATION) and Marcoil (CITATION) programs with default parameters were used for the prediction of transmembrane helices and coiled-coil regions, respectively. The T-DNA insertion mutants in the Columbia-0 background were obtained from the SALK collection, and the homozygous mutants were identified by PCR-based genotyping using allele-specific primers. The following lines were analyzed: SALK_150594 (myob1), SALK_029986 (myob2), SALK_138222 (myob3), and SALK_144108 (myob4). The insertion sites were confirmed by DNA sequencing of the border fragments. Absence of correct transcripts in each of the mutants was confirmed by endpoint RT-PCR on total RNA (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). To generate multiple homozygous mutants containing null alleles of the MyoB family I, the single mutants myob1, myob2, myob3, and myob4 were crossed to generate higher order knockouts myob2 myob3, myob1 myob2 myob3, and myob1 myob2 myob3 myob4, respectively. The xi-k homozygous line SALK_067972 described previously (CITATION) was used to obtain xi-k myob2 myob3, xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3, and xi-k myob1 myob2 myob3 myob4 lines. For the phenotypic analysis, plants were grown in 72-well flats, with 36 wells for each mutant. Five identical replicas of each flat were planted simultaneously and arranged randomly in the greenhouse. Flats were shuffled daily to compensate for local variations in the growth conditions. The daylength was 12 h, and daytime and nighttime temperatures were maintained at 22 and 20°C, respectively. The following parameters were logged: flowering time (defined here as the expansion of petals on the first flower and recorded daily) and plant height and rosette diameter measured at day 38 after germination. The statistical analysis was performed using the nonparametric Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney test (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At1go8800 (MyoB1), At1g70750 (MyoB2), At5g16720 (MyoB3), At2g30690 (MyoB4), At5g06560 (MyoB7), At1g04750 (VAMP721), AT2G40060 (CLC), and At5g25250 (Flotillin1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Pairwise Yeast Two-Hybrid Assays Validating Interactions between the Globular Tail Domains of the Myosins XI-1 and XI-I and the MyoB Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. The N-Terminal Transmembrane Region of MyoB2 Is Sufficient for Targeting GFP Reporter to Motile Vesicles. Supplemental Figure 3. Cell Fractionation Analysis of the Distribution of MyoB2-YFP Using Suc Gradient (20 to 60%) Centrifugation and Immunoblotting of the Arabidopsis myob1 MyoB1-YFP Extracts. Supplemental Figure 4. Phylogenetic Trees of DUF593-Containing Proteins. Supplemental Figure 5. Developmental- and Anatomy-Specific Expression Profiles of Arabidopsis DUF593-Containing Proteins. Supplemental Figure 6. The RT-PCR Analysis of the Gene Expression in the Homozygous T-DNA Insertion Lines SALK_150594 (myob1), SALK_029986 (myob2), SALK_138222 (myob3), and SALK_144108 (myoB4) Compared with Columbia Controls as Indicated. Supplemental Data Set 1. Results of Sequence Analysis of the Proteins Containing Complete DUF593 Domain. Supplemental Data Set 2. Complete Alignment of DUF593-Containing Proteins Detected by PSI-BLAST. Supplemental Data Set 3. Statistical Analysis of the Mutant Phenotypes. Supplemental Movie 1. Traffic of the MyoB1-YFP–Tagged Vesicular Bodies in the Arabidopsis myob1 MyoB1-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 2. Traffic of the MyoB2-YFP-Tagged Vesicular Bodies in the Arabidopsis myob2 MyoB2-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 3. Traffic of the YFP-MyoB7–Tagged Vesicular Bodies in the Arabidopsis YFP-MyoB7 Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 4. Traffic of the MyoB1-YFP–Tagged Vesicular Bodies in the Arabidopsis xi-k MyoB1-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 5. The MyoB1-YFP–Tagged Material in the Arabidopsis xi-k xi-1 xi-2 MyoB1-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 6. Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching Assay in the Arabidopsis MyoB1-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 7. Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching Assay in the Arabidopsis xi-k xi-1 xi-2 MyoB1-YFP Leaf Epidermal Cell. Supplemental Movie 8. Traffic of the CLC2:mCherry-Tagged Clathrin-Coated Vesicles in the Marker-Transformed Arabidopsis Columbia Plants. Supplemental Movie Legends 1. Legends for Supplemental Movies 1-8.
