!~ABS~! • Arabidopsis E3 ligase LOG2 interacts with cGDU1 through DAR2, a conserved domain. • There are two clades of DAR2-containing proteins in both vertebrates and plants. • Mammalian MGRN1, homologous to plant LOG2, binds to and ubiquitylates GDU1 in vitro. • MGRN1 functionally complements log2 mutant plants indicating functional conservation. • MGRN1 may have in vivo binding partners with GDU1-like VIMAG motifs. Arabidopsis E3 ligase LOG2 interacts with cGDU1 through DAR2, a conserved domain. There are two clades of DAR2-containing proteins in both vertebrates and plants. Mammalian MGRN1, homologous to plant LOG2, binds to and ubiquitylates GDU1 in vitro. MGRN1 functionally complements log2 mutant plants indicating functional conservation. MGRN1 may have in vivo binding partners with GDU1-like VIMAG motifs.
!~RES~! LOG2 and its four paralogs (LUL1–4) from A. thaliana have been reported to share amino acid similarity with MGRN1 outside of the RING domain, a region referred to as DAR2 (for domain associated with RING 2) CITATION. To further characterize the similarities, and to define the distribution of LOG2/MGRN proteins among species, sequences from LOG2-like and MGRN1-like proteins were retrieved from Genbank. Overall, 267 proteins from Metazoa and plants were identified (CITATION), verifying a wide distribution of these proteins in diverse species. Phylogenic reconstruction, performed on DAR2 and RING domain sequences, identified multiple clades among plant and metazoan proteins. While one MGRN1-like gene was found in arthropods and nematodes, two clades, corresponding to MGRN1 and uncharacterized RING FINGER157 (RNF157) proteins, were identified in vertebrates (CITATION). Only MGRN1 vertebrate proteins (but not RNF157 or non-vertebrate homologs) have a conserved PSAP sequence (CITATION ), previously found necessary for interaction between MGRN1 and TSG101 CITATION. Plant genomes also contained LOG2-like encoding genes grouping in five clades, two for dicots, and three for monocots. Bootstrap values suggested that one clade was monocot-specific, while the two other monocot clades were related to the two dicot clades. Conservation of the DAR2 domain in LOG2 and MGRN1 (CITATION) prompted the study of the interaction of this domain between LOG2 and GDU1. Recombinant full-length LOG2 was previously found to associate with the cytosolic domain of GDU1 (cGDU1) in GST pull-down and yeast-two-hybrid assays, and this association required an intact VIMAG motif in GDU1 CITATION. To test whether the conserved DAR2 region is required for interaction with GDU1, we examined the affinity of LOG2 truncations for cGDU1 in yeast-two-hybrid and GST pull-down assays. VIMAG motif mutants known to impair association with LOG2 (cGDU1m =G100R and cGDU1Δ=ΔVIMAG; see CITATION and CITATION) were included as negative controls. The RING domain and variable LOG2 N-terminal region were dispensable for interaction in yeast (CITATIONA). Truncations of the DAR2 abolished all detectable interaction in yeast with cGDU1 (CITATIONA). A LOG2 fragment comprising the DAR2 alone (Δ4) interacted with wild-type cGDU1 but not the VIMAG mutants. In GST pull-down assays, the LOG2–cGDU1 interaction was also tolerant of, but sensitive to, RING finger and DAR2 truncations, respectively (CITATIONB). Importantly, the LOG2 DAR2 alone could pull down cGDU1. These results indicate the LOG2–GDU1 association is primarily conferred by intact DAR2 of LOG2 and VIMAG region of GDU1. The question whether DAR2 from MGRN1 could interact with GDU1 was tested as above by yeast two hybrid and GST-pull down assays. Rat (RnMGRN1) and human (HsMGRN1) MGRN1 interacted with Arabidopsis cGDU1-3,5 in yeast in both plasmid conformations (CITATION A), as previously observed for Arabidopsis LOG2 CITATION. Consistent with the yeast-two-hybrid result, GST–RnMGRN1 interacted with cGDU1 in vitro, albeit to a smaller extent than LOG2 (CITATIONB, left panels). Moreover, the G100R mutation in cGDU1 yielded undetectable interactions (CITATIONB, right panels). These data demonstrate that multiple mammalian MGRN1 can directly associate with multiple plant cGDU paralogs in a manner dependent on an intact VIMAG motif in GDU1. Because MGRN1 is an E3 ligase, we next examined whether cGDU1 could serve as a ubiquitylation substrate for RnMGRN1. While a single, unmodified form of cGDU1 was detected in the presence of all ubiquitylation components without an E3, multiple higher molecular mass cGDU1 species were observed in the presence of RnMGRN1 (CITATIONC). These bands were detected with antibodies against both substrate epitopes and ubiquitin itself, and differences in electrophoretic mobility were consistent with ubiquitin addition (CITATIONC). Notably, both flag- and HA-cGDU1 were ubiquitylated, indicating the modification is not peculiar to the substrate tag. Given that cGDU1 is also an in vitro substrate of LOG2 CITATION, these data suggest that the mode of cGDU1 binding by RnMGRN1 is similar to that of LOG2. Both LOG2 and HsMGRN1 have been shown to be myristoylated CITATION. Myristoylation prediction algorithms suggest that rat MGRN1 could also be myristoylated. While the N-terminal amino acids of myristoylated proteins are somewhat variable, an N-terminal glycine (typically following removal of the initiator methionine) is required for recognition by the myristoylation enzyme N-myristoyl transferase CITATION. Therefore, RnMGRN1 and a non-myristoylatable RnMGRN1G2A mutant were expressed in rabbit reticulocyte lysates in the presence of tritiated myristic acid, and protein expression was assessed by fluorographic imaging. While both proteins expressed at similar levels (evidenced by leucine incorporation), only wild-type RnMGRN1 was myristoylated (CITATION). MGRN1 localizes to endosomes and associates with plasma membrane-resident MCRs CITATION, phenomena that may be facilitated by N-myristoylation (reviewed in CITATION). LOG2G2A mutant was deficient in in vitro myristoylation and exhibited weaker membrane anchorage than wild-type LOG2 CITATION. To assess the importance of myristoylation in membrane localization, RnMGRN1 and RnMGRN1G2A were fused at their C-termini to mCherry and expressed in hamster cells. Confocal observation of RnMGRN1-mCherry is in agreement with previous investigations CITATION. Interestingly, the G2A mutation did not yield dramatic changes in sub-cellular localization, as both proteins were present around the nucleus in punctate structures (CITATION A). In a second approach, RnMGRN1 and RnMGRN1G2A were C-terminally V5-tagged and expressed in hamster cells. Microsomes were purified, and the strength of RnMGRN1’s membrane affinity was tested by incubation with NaCl, Na2CO3, and Triton X-100 detergent, treatments that extract peripheral, luminal, and integral membrane proteins, respectively CITATION. RnMGRN1 was partially solubilized only by detergent (CITATIONB), whereas the G2A mutation exhibited weaker membrane association, being additionally solubilized by NaCl (CITATIONB). Overall, these data suggest that while dispensable for RnMGRN1 membrane localization per se, myristoylation contributes to the affinity of the protein for membranes. Sequence comparison, interaction with and ubiquitylation of GDU1, and myristoylation suggested that RnMGRN1 could have similar in vivo functional properties to LOG2. To test this hypothesis, an in vivo assay for MGRN1 function in plants was performed. gdu1–1D plants are tolerant to high concentrations of amino acids, while gdu1–1D log2–2 double mutant plants exhibit growth arrest, i.e., plants germinate but fail to develop expanded, green cotyledons and emergent true leaves after radicle emergence CITATION. Similarly, over-expression of a myc epitope-tagged version of GDU1, GDU1-myc, recapitulates the Gdu1D phenotype CITATION and confers resistance to exogenous amino acids in a LOG2-dependent manner (unpublished). RnMGRN1 was expressed in the GDU1-myc log2–2 double mutant, and triply homozygous progeny (GDU1-myc log2–2 RnMGRN1) were grown on synthetic growth media containing 2.5mM leucine. Two independent transgenic lines had fewer growth arrested seedlings than the progenitor line, GDU1-myc log2–2, but not as many as GDU1-myc alone, which had no arrested seedlings (CITATION B), suggesting that RnMGRN1 is active in plants and can partially substitute for LOG2 function in plants.
!~MM~! Rat MGRN1 coding sequence was amplified by RT-PCR from IMAGE clone 7134018, cloned into pDONR201 (Life Technologies) using the Gateway technology, and recombined into pCDNA3.2/V5DEST (Life Technologies) and pCDNA3.2/mCherry CITATION. Myristoylation-inhibited MGRN1G2A was procured via site-directed mutagenesis with the QuikChange kit (Stratagene). HsMGRN1 was cloned from cDNA from HEK cells and recombined into pDONRZeo. Both human and rat MGRN1 clones were recombined into Gateway pGBT9 and pACT2 yeast-two-hybrid vectors CITATION. Deletion variants of LOG2 were created by PCR and transferred to yeast or E scherichia coli expression vectors by Gateway cloning. For plant expression, RnMGRN1 cDNA in pDONR201 was recombined into pGWUBQ10, a modified pGWB14 plasmid CITATION with 1003bp upstream of the UBQ10 coding region replacing the 35S promoter. The resulting plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 and then into A. thaliana ecotype Col GDU-myc over-expressing log2–2 double homozygous plants by vacuum infiltration CITATION. Protein sequences were retrieved from Genbank by PSI-BLAST CITATION using the DAR2 of LOG2 and MGRN1 as queries. Protein domains and motifs were identified by MEME (meme.nbcr.net/) CITATION. Sequences were aligned and the phylogenic tree created by MEGA5 CITATION (see CITATION for protein sequences). Yeast-two-hybrid, GST pull-down, and ubiquitylation assays were performed as described in CITATION. BHK21 cells (ATCC-CCL10) cells were purchased from ATCC. Cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagles medium supplemented with 5% cosmic calf serum, 100U/ml penicillin, and 100U/ml streptomycin. Cells were cultured at 37°C under 5% CO2. For expression assays, cells were transfected with 12μg of each construct per flask (25cm2). For imaging, cells were plated on an eight-well, glass-bottom chamber coated with poly-l-lysine, and transfection was performed with 400ng MGRN1- and MGRN1G2A-mCherry construct/well (100mm2). Cells were imaged 72h post-transfection by confocal microscopy using the same settings as in CITATION. Cells were harvested 72h after transfection. Total proteins were extracted according to CITATION. Membrane fraction purification was based on CITATION. Differences in membrane association of MGRN1 and MGRN1G2A were investigated as described in CITATION. Transgenic plants were isolated and the transgene made homozygous in subsequent generations by antibiotic selection. Independent lines were generated and tested for the ability to grow on germination plates supplemented with leucine as previously described using 20 seeds of each line per plate (five plates total) CITATION. The number of arrested seedlings was counted after 10days of growth. Seedlings were scored as “arrested” if seedlings failed to turn green, failed to produce expanded cotyledons nor had visible true leaves, as previously observed CITATION. Results were analyzed by ANOVA in jmp (http://www.jmp.com/).
