!~ABS~! Four hundred and fifty-eight genes coding for PentatricoPeptide Repeat (PPR) proteins are annotated in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. Over the past 10 years, numerous reports have shown that many of these proteins function in organelles to target specific transcripts and are involved in post-transcriptional regulation. Therefore, they are thought to be important players in the coordination between nuclear and organelle genome expression. Only four of these proteins have been described to be addressed outside organelles, indicating that some PPRs could function in post-transcriptional regulations of nuclear genes. In this work, we updated and improved our current knowledge on the localization of PPR proteins of Arabidopsis within the plant cell. We particularly investigated the subcellular localization of 166 PPR proteins whose targeting predictions were ambiguous, using a combination of high-throughput cloning and microscopy. Through systematic localization experiments and data integration, we confirmed that PPR proteins are largely targeted to organelles and showed that dual targeting to both the mitochondria and plastid occurs more frequently than expected. These results allow us to speculate that dual-targeted PPR proteins could be important for the fine coordination of gene expressions in both organelles.
!~RES~! We previously published a manually curated list of Arabidopsis PPR gene models.12 When this work was initiated, the most accurate algorithms to predict subcellular localization of plant proteins were TargetP v1.0131 and Predotar v1.03.32 Therefore, we used them to identify Arabidopsis genes coding for PPR proteins with ambiguous localization predictions (CITATION). TargetP was recently improved with the TargetP v1.1 version of the software. Among the 458 PPR genes, Predotar predicts that 244 and 92 PPR proteins are addressed, respectively, to mitochondria and plastids, whereas 122 PPRs would not have any organelle localization (CITATION). TargetP v1.1 gives similar results with 232 and 123 PPRs localized to mitochondria and plastids, respectively, and 103 PPRs without organelle localizations (CITATION). Taken together, 166 PPR proteins were predicted not to be addressed to either of the two main plant organelles by at least one of the two software (Predotar v1.03 and TargetP v1.01). Among them, 53 PPR proteins were not predicted to be addressed in the organelles by both algorithms. We chose to experimentally investigate the subcellular localization of those 166 PPR proteins as they were good candidates to have atypical functions out of the organelles. Manually curated Arabidopsis PPR gene models were used.12 Most of them are identical to TAIR v10 gene models but 22 models are different and are indicated with their AtPPR codes. Predictions of localization using Predotar v1.03 and Target P v1.1 software are listed. Experimental fluorescent signals observed in protoplasts expressing Targeting Peptide or Full-Length (FL) protein fused to RFP are shown. Two independent observations by two of the authors were done on at least three independent agro-infiltrations. For each PPR, a tentative conclusion is proposed with the following rules: (1) if available, the observation of FL-protein fusion is considered as the true localization, (2) if a mitochondrial or a chloroplastic localization was observed for the targeting peptide and no observation was recorded for the full-length protein, the result of TP is indicated as conclusion, (3) if a dual localization was observed and no observation was obtained with the full-length protein, the result of TP is indicated as probable in lowercase, (4) if no experimental observation was obtained, the predicted localization is indicated with a preceding “p”., . M, mitochondria; C, chloroplasts; N/Ct, nucleus and cytoplasm; M/C, dual localization in mitochondria and chloroplasts; pM, predicted in mitochondria (conclusion column); pC, predicted in chloroplasts (conclusion column); m, probably in mitochondria (conclusion column); c, probably in chloroplasts (conclusion column); m/c, probably in mitochondria and chloroplasts (conclusion column); -, no conclusion; c.u., cloning unsuccessful; n.a., not attempted. Functional annotations were obtained from TAIR web site using the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI) genome release ver10. ABO5, ABA OVERLAY-SENSITIVE; AtECB, EARLY CHLOROPLAST BIOGENESIS; BIR, BSO-INSENSITIVE-ROOTS; CLB, CHLOROPLAST BIOGENESI; CREF, CHLOROPLAST RNA EDITING FACTOR; CRR, CHLORORESPIRATORY REDUCTION; DG, DELAYED GREENING; DOT, DEFECTIVELY ORGANIZED TRIBUTARIES; EMB, EMBRYO DEFECTIVE; FAC, EMBRYONIC FACTOR; GRP, GLUTAMINE-RICH PROTEIN; GUN, GENOME UNCUPLED; HCF, HIGH CHLOROPHYLL FLUORESCENCE; LOI, LOVASTATINE INSENSITIVE; LOJ, LATERAL ORGAN JUNCTION; LPA, LOW PSII ACCUMULATION; MEF, MITOCONDRIAL RNA EDITING FACTOR; MPR25, MITOCHONDRIAL PPR 25; MTSF, MITOCHONDRIAL STABILITY FACTOR; NFD, NUCLEAR FUSION DEFECTIVE; OGR1, OPAQUE AND GROWTH RETARDATION; OTP, ORGANELLE TRANSCRIPT PROCESSING, PDE: PIGMENT DEFECTIVE; PDM, PIGMENT DEFICIENT MUTANT; PGN, PENTATRICOPEPTIDE GERMINATION ON NaCl; PGR, PROTON GRADIENT REGULATION; PNM, PROTEIN LOCALIZED TO THE NUCLEUS AND MITOCHONDRIA; PPR, PENTATRICOPEPTIDE REPEAT; PRORP, PROTEINACEUS RNASE P; PTAC, PLASTID TRANSCRIPTIONALLY ACTIVE; REME, REQUIERED FOR EFFICENCY OF MITOCHONDRIAL EDITING; RPF, RNA PROCESSING FACTOR; SLG, SLOW GROWTH; SVR, SUPRESSOR OF VARIEGATION; VAC, VANILLA CREAM; YS, YELLOW SEEDLING; Zmempp, Z. mays EMPTY PERICARP, ZmPPR, Zea mays PPR. (2) PPR domains were recovered from FLAGdb++ v5 (http://urgv.evry.inra.fr/projects/FLAGdb++/HTML/index.shtml) and from manually curated published evidences. Domain identifiers are according to Lurin and co-workers:11 “P” for PPR P-type domains, “P-D” for PPR P-type with additional atypical domain, “PLS” for PPR PLS-type domains, “PLS-E” for PPR PLS-type with an E- or EE+- type additional domain, and “PLS-E-DYW” for PPR PLS-type containing EE+ and DYW additional domains. (3) Localization predictions were aggregated from the independent predictions provided by the following software: Predotar v1.03, TargetP server v1.1, iPSORT, Multi Loc, LocTree, and AtsubP server with the complete Arabidopsis proteome using default settings. The rules to propose a conclusive prediction were as follows: if four or more software give the same prediction, this prediction is proposed and noted in uppercase; if three software give the same prediction and the three others do not predict any localization, the prediction is proposed and noted in uppercase; if two software give the same prediction and the four others do not predict any localization, the prediction is proposed and noted in lowercase; if three software give the same prediction and another predict a different localization, the main prediction is proposed and noted in lowercase; in the other cases, no prediction is proposed (-). (4) Proteomic localizations were gathered from published studies and from organelle proteomic databases as indicated in corresponding references in the last column of the table. Additional information in brackets states in which specie(s) the proteomic investigation was (were) performed: “At” stands for Arabidopsis thaliana, “Zm” for Zea mays, and “Os” for Oriza sativa. (5) Experimental localizations of fluorescent proteins were collected from targeted published studies and systematic approaches,11,57 this report, unpublished data from SUBA3 either using targeting peptides or full-length proteins. (6) Conclusion column gives a probable subcellular localization by integrating prediction, proteomic, genetics, and fluorescent proteins data. The decision rule is as follows: reverse genetics is prevalent followed by fluorescent proteins, proteomic data, and prediction. The conclusion is indicated in uppercase if reverse genetics data is available, if two experimental results are identical, or if the experimental data fit with the prediction. If not, the conclusion is indicated in lowercase. If only predictions are available, the predicted localization is indicated with a preceding “p”. (7) Data of PPR Embryo defective mutants (EMB) was obtained from SeedGenes database (http://www.seedgenes.org/index.html) and manually curated mutants from published studies. (8) Molecular function based on reverse genetics approaches were obtained from literature, the localization of the molecular function is indicated in brackets. Localization data is indicated as followed. M, mitochondria; C, chloroplasts; N, nucleus; V, vacuole; Ct, cytosol; PM, plasma membrane. N/Ct, nucleus and cytoplasm; M/C, mitochondria and chloroplasts; lower case, “probably”; “pX”, predicted in compartment X (conclusion column). Almost all the proteins addressed to organelles contain a targeting peptide in their N terminus extremity, which is cleaved during the transfer through the organelle membranes.8 A mitochondrial Targeting Peptide (mTP) is typically 40–50 amino acid long,33-36 whereas a chloroplast Targeting Peptide (cTP) is usually up to 60 amino acid long.37 To assess the targeting peptide functionality, we systematically merged in frame the first 300 bp, coding for the first 100 amino acids of each candidate PPR ORFs to the Red Fluorescent Protein (RFP) coding sequence using the Gateway technology. The aim of this approach was to experimentally detect any mTP or cTP present in the first 100 amino acids but not recognized by the prediction software. Vector cloning based on Gateway recombination technology was successful for 162 genes (97%). After agro-infiltration of Nicotiana benthamania leaves with these constructs and subsequent protoplasts preparation, we were able to detect RFP signals for 131 constructs (79%) using either epifluorescent or confocal microscope. All localization experiments were repeated at least three times and observed independently by two of the authors. CITATION summarizes all predicted and experimental data obtained during this study. Presented in CITATION are examples of typical subcellular localizations observed using 300 bp constructs. In CITATION, RFP fluorescence was visualized using a confocal microscope and compared with the distribution of the mitochondrion-specific probe MitoTracker Green and the chlorophyll autofluorescence. In the overlay panels, combined fluorescence from RFP (in red), MitoTracker (in green), and chlorophyll autofluorecence (in blue) appears in yellow when RFP signal co-localizes with MitoTracker staining indicating a localization of the fusion protein in mitochondria whereas it appears in violet when RFP signal is localized in plastids. It was detected that 68 and 31 300 bp-PPR constructs gave an exclusive mitochondrial and plastid localization, respectively, as exemplified by AT3G15130 and AT3G46610 in CITATION. Interestingly, 24 constructs exhibited a signal in both organelles (see for example, AT2G36240 and AT5G47460 in CITATION) and nine constructs gave localizations out of organelles, appearing as typical nuclear and cytosolic signals (AT1G06150 and AT1G06580 in CITATION). These localization results in the nucleus and the cytosol of the protoplasts suggest that the first 100 amino acids of these proteins do not code for a functional peptide targeting to organelles and that the RFP fusion proteins are localized where the translation occurs (in the cytosol) and in the nucleus by passive diffusion of small proteins through nuclear pores. Figure 1. Examples of typical sub-cellular localizations observed using confocal microscopy. Confocal images of protoplasts obtained from Nicotiana benthamiana leaves infiltrated with constructs containing (A) the first 300 bp, coding for the first 100 amino acids, of six PPR ORFs, fused to the RFP coding sequence (TP-RFP) or (B) the full-length sequence of four PPR ORFs fused to the RFP coding sequence (FL-RFP). The RFP fluorophore (in red), the MitoTracker Green staining (in green), and the chlorophyll autofluorescence (in blue) were simultaneously visualized. Overlay panels show combined fluorescence from RFP, MitoTracker, and chlorophyll autofluorecence. Loc, deduced subcellular localization; M, mitochondria; C, chloroplasts; N/Ct, nucleus and cytosol; M/C, mitochondria and chloroplasts. Bars: 10 μm. As addressing signals could be outside the first 100 amino acids and because using the first 100 amino acids may induce addressing artifacts, we decided to investigate in more detail the subcellular localization of the 33 PPR proteins that did not show a simple single organellar localization. Out of the 24 PPR proteins localized in both organelles and the nine proteins appearing outside of the organelles, we successfully cloned the whole ORFs and created RFP fusions for 19. Subcellular localizations of these fusions were monitored using Agro-infiltrated N. benthamiana-derived protoplasts observed under epifluorescent and confocal microscope (examples in CITATION). Results are summarized in CITATION. We confirmed the dual subcellular localization for six out of the 11 ORFs successfully expressed and encoding full-length proteins thought to be addressed in both organelles (see AT5G47460 in CITATION for example). As for AT2G36240 (CITATION), we showed a single localization in mitochondria for the other five. Among the nine PPR proteins thought to be out of the organelles on the base of the first 100 amino acids, seven ORFs were successfully cloned but no cytosolic localization was confirmed: the whole proteins fused to RFP were systematically addressed to one or both organelles, as exemplified by AT1G06150 and AT1G06580 in CITATION. Surprisingly, six of them were localized in both organelles (AT1G06150 in CITATION). Altogether, 12 PPRs proteins were verified as being localized in both mitochondria and plastids using the full-length protein. In order to provide a general overview of the localization of the whole PPR protein family, we aggregated our results concerning one-third of the family, with all available data from published studies and accessible databases (CITATION). We first re-examined the localization prediction of the 458 PPR proteins encoded in the Arabidopsis genome using six available bio-informatics prediction tools: Predotar,32 TargetP,31 iPSORT,38 Loctree,39 Multiloc,40 and AtSubP.41 Despite using distinct algorithms, those tools largely provide similar results and CITATION gives a single localization prediction aggregating the six software results following a rule emphasized in the caption of CITATION. Overall, 65% and 17% of the PPR proteins are predicted to function in mitochondria and in plastids, respectively. For 18%, the results are unclear either because a majority of the software was unable to provide an organellar prediction or because they provide overmuch diverging organellar predictions. We also added the growing data coming from the proteomics identification of organelle proteins in Arabidopsis mitochondria (SUBA35) and chloroplast (SUBA3,5 AT_Chloro,42 PPDB43), also including localization data obtained from maize chloroplast (PPDB43) and rice mitochondria,44 according to the recent concept of orthoproteomics.45 As published,12 a very good level of orthology observed between the members of PPR families in A. thaliana and Oriza sativa suggests that both their function and their subcellular localization are largely conserved between species even between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. Overall, 83 (about 18%) of the Arabidopsis PPR proteins, or PPR orthologs in other species, were identified either in the plastidial or the mitochondrial proteomes, providing a very useful set of PPR protein localization data (CITATION). Three and five PPR proteins were identified during proteomics characterization of Arabidopsis nuclear and cytosolic proteins, respectively.46-49 Surprisingly, 28 PPR proteins were characterized in plasma membrane or vacuole extracts.50-56 Without functional characterization of any of these membrane PPR proteins, these observations cannot be solved. They may be due to intrinsic technical limitations of proteomics approaches; in contrast, their number may indicate unsuspected localizations and functions. However, proteome-based localizations validate many of the prediction results of bio-informatics software as 48 (71%) of them matched the available predictions (CITATION). In each cell of the table, the number and the percent of compatible localizations among the intersection of data available in both data sets are indicated. Two results are considered as compatible when their localizations are coherent: for example, experimental localization in both organelles and prediction or proteomics indicating only one of the two organelles. A growing number of PPR proteins were subjected to in planta functional characterization either in dedicated studies (see references in CITATION) or in systematic studies including the work reported here and three previous ones11,57unpublished data in SUBA3 (CITATION). Authors usually characterized localizations by microscopy using fusions between PPR proteins or, if suspected, putative targeting peptides and a fluorescent reporter. Including the work reported here, 208 PPR localizations were experimentally determined using fluorescent fusion proteins, largely correlating with both bio-informatics and proteomics approaches (CITATION and CITATION). Among the 159 PPRs proteins for which both experimental localization data based on protein fusion and predictions using bio-informatics tools are available, 135 (85%) have a similar localization. In addition, among the 36 PPR proteins being both identified in sub-proteomes and subjected to experimental localization studies using fluorescent protein fusion, 30 (83%) were compatible. The last set of data comes from the identification of the molecular functions of PPR proteins using reverse genetics, providing very important data about their localization (CITATION). As largely reported in the literature, PPR proteins are involved in regulating gene expression by acting through direct interaction with specific RNAs. A literature survey indicates that molecular roles were assigned to 68 PPR proteins (CITATION), occurring in plastids (31), in mitochondria (34), in both mitochondria and plastids (1), or in the nucleus (2). These reverse genetics studies are very strong statements of PPR localization, which could be considered as true localization. When compared with this very high quality data set, our data as well as all data of fluorescent protein localization appeared as very highly correlated with 17 out of 18 (94%) and 53 out of 57 (93%) compatible localization, respectively (CITATION). As concluded in CITATION and taking into account all the above depicted approaches, we assigned all Arabidopsis PPR proteins a probable localization depending on the strength of the available data. The localization based on reverse genetics, when available, prevailed over any other approaches. Because we showed that the experimental localizations of fusion proteins were highly correlated with the localization of the molecular function when identified (CITATION), this data prevailed over the proteomics and bio-informatics ones. Additionally, PPR protein identification in organellar proteomes, though showing some discrepancies with functional data suggesting some errors of localization linked to this technique, was as far as we know more trustable that bio-informatics predictions. Finally, when no experimental data was available, we proposed a predicted localization in mitochondria or chloroplast (pM or pC). CITATION gives a graphical view of these results. The number of PPR proteins with a suspected or proved subcellular localization in at least one of the two organelles increased significantly with our study. For example, the experimental mitochondrial and chloroplast localization data increased by 50% (from 134 to 212) and with the addition 19 PPRs with experimental dual targeting to mitochondria and chloroplast to the previously 10 known. Overall, 275 PPR proteins (60%) are expected to function in mitochondria, with 44% of them being validated in experimental studies. Additionally, 109 PPR proteins (24%) are expected to function in plastids, 82% being demonstrated experimentally. Forty-five PPR proteins (10%) are suspected to have a dual addressing to both plastids and mitochondria. Finally, five PPR proteins have been shown to have atypical localization: PROPR2 and PROPR3 were shown to be addressed to the nucleus,58 PNM1 and GRP23 to both nucleus and mitochondria,27,28,57 and AT3G53170 was observed in both nuclear and chloroplastic extracts during proteomics studies.48,59 Only 24 PPR proteins (5%) do not have any clear localization based on experimental or bio-informatics reported investigations. Figure 2. Distribution of the localization of Arabidopsis thaliana PentatricoPeptide Repeat (PPR) proteins. Classes of localization and percentage of each class in the PPR family are shown. pM, predicted mitochondria localization in dark red; M, mitochondria localization in light red; pC, predicted plastid localization in dark green; C, plastid localization in light green; M/C, mitochondria and plastid localization in yellow; N/C, nuclear and chloroplastic localization in black; M/N, mitochondria and nuclear localization in blue; N, nuclear localization in pink, unclear localization in light gray.
!~MM~! Subcellular localization prediction of the PPR proteins were performed using TargetP server (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) (version 1.01 was used when we initiated this work to select the 166 PPRs and version 1.1 was used when we built CITATION and CITATION), Predotar v1.03 (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/predotar/predotar.html), iPSORT (http://ipsort.hgc.jp/), Loctree (https://www.rostlab.org/owiki/index.php/Loctree), Multiloc (http://abi.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/Services/MultiLoc/), and AtSubP (http://bioinfo3.noble.org/AtSubP/?dowhat=About) software using default setting. Proteomic data was recovered from published proteomic references and subcellular proteome databases: PPDB (Plant Proteome Database http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/),43 SUBA3 (Subcellular location database for Arabidopsis proteins http://suba.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/),5 and AT_CHLORO (http://www.grenoble.prabi.fr/at_chloro/).42 The first 100 codons or the whole PPR ORFs were PCR amplified from Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia-0) genomic DNA or cDNA using iProof DNA polymerase (Bio-Rad), specific primers (listed in CITATION) and a two-step amplification protocol as described previously.11 PCR products were recombined into pDONR207 (Invitrogen) using Gateway® BP Clonase® II Enzyme mix (Invitrogen) as described.11 For microscopic investigation, LR recombination reactions were performed using Gateway® LR Clonase® Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen) in order to transfer PPR sequences from Entry vectors to the pGREENII-derived destination vector p0229-RFP211 allowing C-terminal translational fusion with the RFP protein under the control of the 2X35S promoter. The proper ORF fusion was confirmed by sequencing using P35STL (5′-CGAATCTCAA GCAATCAAGC-3′) and RFP2rev (5′-TGAACTCGGT GATGACGTTC-3′) primers. Binary vectors were introduced into thermo-competent Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 harboring the helper plasmid pSOUP.88 A single resistant colony was then used to inoculate 5 mL of Luria Bertani medium supplemented with 5 mg L−1 Tetracycline, 50 mg L−1 Kanamycine, and 2.5 mg L−1 Rifampicine. This overnight pre-culture was then diluted 10 times and further grown overnight in similar conditions. After centrifugation, Agrobacterium cells were re-suspended in agro-infiltration buffer (10 mM MES/KOH pH 5.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 150 µM 3′,5′-Dimethoxy-4′-hydroxyacetophenone -Sigma-Aldrich-) with a final OD600 between 0.2–0.3, and incubated at room temperature for 2 h. Agrobacterium suspensions were infiltrated using 1 mL syringes without needle in leaves of Nicotana benthamiana. Protoplasts were prepared from leaf material (harvested 48–96 h after infiltration), cut into thin strips, and incubated in enzyme solution containing 4.3 g.L−1 Murashige and Skoog Basal Salt Mixture (ICN Biomedicale), 0.5 g.L−1 MES, 20 g.L−1 sucrose, 80 g.L−1 mannitol, KOH to pH 5.6, 0.4 g.L−1 Pectinase from Rhizopus sp. (Sigma-Aldrich), 1 g.L−1 Driselase® Basidiomycetes sp.. (Sigma-Aldrich) and 2 g.L−1 Cellulase Onozuka RS from Trichoderma viride (SERVA Electrophoresis GmbH) at 28 °C for 2–4 h.89 Protoplasts were observed using an Eclipse TE2000S inverted microscope (Nikon) and RFP signal monitored using a custom filter block (exciter HQ546/12, emitter HQ605/75, beam-splitter Q560lp; Chroma Technology). For each construction, at least three independent agro-infiltrations were realized and each of them was observed independently by two of the authors. To confirm mitochondrial localizations, protoplasts were stained with 1 µM MitoTracker Green (Invitrogen) for 15–30 min. For confocal microscopy, proteins were visualized using a spectral Leica SP2 AOBS confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with argon and HeNe lasers. Fluorescent signals were detected with a sequential configuration using a 488 nm laser line (MitoTracker Green: excitation/emission 488/510–530 nm) and a 543 nm laser line (RFP: excitation/emission 543/570–600 nm and chlorophyll autofluorescence: excitation/emission 543/600–700 nm). The images were coded red (RFP), green (MitoTracker Green), and blue (chlorophyll autofluorescence), giving yellow co-localization in mitochondria when green and red signals overlap in merged images and violet co-localization in plastid when blue and red signals overlap. Microscopic observations were performed using a Leica HCPL APO 633/1.20 Water Corr/0.17 Lbd.BL objective. Each image shown represents the projection of optical sections taken as a Z series.
