!~ABS~! Recombination establishes the chiasmata that physically link pairs of homologous chromosomes in meiosis, ensuring their balanced segregation at the first meiotic division and generating genetic variation. The visible manifestation of genetic crossing-overs, chiasmata are the result of an intricate and tightly regulated process involving induction of DNA double-strand breaks and their repair through invasion of a homologous template DNA duplex, catalysed by RAD51 and DMC1 in most eukaryotes. We describe here a RAD51-GFP fusion protein that retains the ability to assemble at DNA breaks but has lost its DNA break repair capacity. This protein fully complements the meiotic chromosomal fragmentation and sterility of Arabidopsis rad51, but not rad51 dmc1 mutants. Even though DMC1 is the only active meiotic strand transfer protein in the absence of RAD51 catalytic activity, no effect on genetic map distance was observed in complemented rad51 plants. The presence of inactive RAD51 nucleofilaments is thus able to fully support meiotic DSB repair and normal levels of crossing-over by DMC1. Our data demonstrate that RAD51 plays a supporting role for DMC1 in meiotic recombination in the flowering plant, Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! RAD51 plays a central role in homologous recombination (HR) in both mitotic and meiotic cells of eukaryotes, including plants. To further investigate the roles of this protein during homologous recombination in planta, we constructed a RAD51-GFP translational fusion (CITATION). The RAD51 genomic coding sequence, including introns but without the stop codon, and 1031 bp of upstream sequence was amplified by PCR from DNA of wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia) and the eGFP coding sequence fused to the 3′ end of the RAD51 open reading frame (CITATION). The fusion construct was introduced into RAD51/rad51 heterozygote plants and transformants expressing the RAD51-GFP translational fusion protein were selected. PCR genotyping of the RAD51 locus of the 32 RAD51-GFP transformants showed that 5 were rad51/rad51, 19 RAD51/rad51 and 8 were RAD51/RAD51. All five rad51/rad51 plants expressing the RAD51-GFP translational fusion protein were fully fertile, confirming that the fusion protein is able to complement the sterility phenotype of the Arabidopsis rad51/rad51 mutant (CITATION). This complementation strictly cosegregated with the transgene in the following generation. The RAD51-GFP fusion protein is thus properly expressed and functional during meiosis in these plants. (A) Schematic representation of the RAD51-GFP fusion construct. (B) Wild-type plants have long siliques full of seeds, while rad51 mutants are completely sterile. Expression of RAD51-GFP in rad51 mutants restores fertility. The fertility of the rad51/rad51 mutant plants complemented by the fusion protein clearly establishes that RAD51-GFP is able to substitute for the RAD51 protein in its essential meiotic role. A detailed cytogenetic analysis of meiotic progression in pollen mother cells (PMC) of plants expressing the RAD51-GFP fusion protein confirmed this, with meiotic stages appearing indistinguishable from wild-type meiosis (CITATION). In wild-type plants, meiotic chromosomes condense at leptotene (CITATION). Pairing and synapsis of homologues is seen as the synaptonemal complex at pachytene (CITATION). Chromosomes further condense and the expected five bivalents are observed at metaphase I (CITATION). Homologous chromosomes then segregate to opposite poles to give two sets of five chromosomes at metaphase II (CITATION). Meiosis II then proceeds and gives rise to 4 haploid nuclei (CITATION). In contrast, pairing and synapsis are strongly impaired in rad51/rad51 mutant (CITATION). Defects in DSB repair further lead to strong chromosome fragmentation, fusion and chromosome mis-segration producing unbalanced and fragmented polyads (CITATION). In rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants, meiosis appears indistinguishable from wild-type resulting in the expected 4 haploid meiotic products (CITATION). Normal structure of the synaptonemal complex at pachytene of rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP meiosis was confirmed by immunolocalisation of the synaptonemal complex (SC) axial element protein ASY1 CITATION and the SC transverse filament protein ZYP1 CITATION (CITATION). DAPI staining of pollen mother cells (PMC) during meiosis. (A, F, K), Leptotene, (B, G, L) Pachytene, (C, H, M) Metaphase I, (D, I, N) Metaphase II and tetrad showing four meiotic products (E,O) and the equivalent stage with heterogeneous DNA masses in the rad51 mutant (J). (Scale Bar: 10 µm). (P) Immunolocalisation in rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP PMC shows that synaptonemal complex (SC) proteins ASY1 (SC axial element) and ZYP1 (SC transverse filament) are correctly loaded along chromosome axes at pachytene indicating normal completion of synapsis. DAPI (blue), ASY1 (green), ZYP1 (red) and merged images are shown. (Scale Bar: 10 µm). As seen above, the RAD51-GFP fusion protein is properly expressed and functional during meiosis. In somatic tissues, the expected strong GFP expression is visible in nuclei of meristematic cells in primary and lateral roots and none detected in non-dividing root transition and elongation zones (CITATION). RAD51-GFP fusion protein is present in the nuclei of primary root meristem (left panels) and lateral root meristem cells (right panels). No or faint signals are observed in transition and elongation zone. Differential interference contrast (DIC)+GFP (upper panels) and GFP fluorescence (lower panels) images are shown. (Scale bar = 50 µm.). To confirm the function of the fusion protein in mitotic cells, we tested its capacity to complement the sensitivity of rad51 mutant plants to the DNA cross-linking agent Mitomycin C (MMC). Wild-type and rad51 mutant plants, carrying or not the RAD51-GFP fusion protein, were grown on solid media containing increasing concentrations of Mitomycin C and growth was scored after 2 weeks (CITATION). As expected under these conditions, rad51 mutants are highly sensitive while wild-type plants show little sensitivity to MMC (CITATION). Unexpectedly given the complementation in meiosis and the expression patterns in somatic cells, the RAD51-GFP protein does not complement the MMC hypersensitivity of rad51 plants. It acts as a dominant negative with both wild-type and rad51 mutant plants expressing the RAD51-GFP protein clearly hypersensitive to MMC (CITATION). This dominant negative phenotype implies that the fusion protein interferes with the proper functioning of the native RAD51 protein. (A) Sensitivity of plants expressing RAD51-GFP to DNA-damaging agent Mitomycin C (MMC). Two-week-old seedlings grown without or with 40 µM MMC are shown. rad51 mutants are sterile and hence seeds of RAD51/rad51 heterozygotes were used and only 1/4 of their progeny are homozygous and sensitive to MMC (depicted with red circles). Genotypes of the plants were confirmed by PCR and GFP visualisation. (B) Sensitivity of the seedlings (n = 50) was scored after 2 weeks (see CITATION) and the fractions of resistant plants (plants with more than 3 true leaves) are shown. Black fill - Wild-type; diagonal fill - homozygous rad51 mutants; horizontal fill - wild-type expressing RAD51-GFP protein; no fill - homozygous rad51 mutants expressing the RAD51-GFP transgene. (C) Somatic homologous recombination is impaired in plants expressing RAD51-GFP fusion protein. Mean numbers of spontaneous GUS+ recombinant spots in wild-type plants and rad51 mutants (PCR genotyped) expressing or not the RAD51-GFP fusion protein. Standard errors (SEM) and numbers of plants analysed (n) are indicated for each genotype. The wild-type plants with and without RAD51-GFP are sister plants from a population segregating the RAD51-GFP allele. The importance of homologous recombination (HR) in the repair of DNA cross-links has led to the use of MMC hypersensitivity as an indirect test for recombination capacity in a number of organisms. Given the dominant negative MMC hypersensitivity conferred by RAD51-GFP, we also directly tested somatic homologous recombination in these plants using the previously described IU.GUS in planta recombination tester locus, consisting of an interrupted ß-glucuronidase (GUS) gene and a template GUS sequence for repair CITATION–CITATION. The IU.GUS recombination reporter locus was crossed into rad51 mutant plants expressing the RAD51-GFP fusion protein and somatic HR frequencies (HRF) monitored in F3 progeny homozygous for IU.GUS. CITATION shows quantification of spontaneous somatic recombination in WT and rad51 mutants, expressing or not the RAD51-GFP protein. As expected HR is severely reduced in rad51/rad51 mutants (1 recombinant spot found in 48 plants) compared to wild-type plants, which have a mean of 5.9 recombination events per plant (SEM = 0.75; n = 51). The presence of RAD51-GFP in both WT and rad51/rad51 plants resulted in levels of homologous recombination similar to those observed in the rad51 mutant (CITATION). The RAD51-GFP protein is thus not functional in mitotic recombination and these results very clearly confirm the dominant-negative effect, with the presence of the RAD51-GFP protein reducing recombination of RAD51/RAD51 plants to the level of rad51/rad51 plants (100-fold reduction; CITATION). Despite its ability to restore the fertility of rad51 mutant plants, the RAD51-GFP protein is clearly defective for somatic homologous recombination. Presence of the RAD51-GFP protein creates a separation-of-function phenotype. The phenotypes conferred by the Arabidopsis RAD51-GFP fusion appear very similar to those recently described in yeast for the mutant rad51-II3A protein, which retains its ability to form nucleofilaments but has no joint molecule activity CITATION, CITATION. Using immunocytology to detect RAD51 nucleofilaments as brightly staining nuclear foci, we tested whether the RAD51-GFP protein retains its ability to assemble at sites of DNA breaks induced by gamma-irradiation in rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants. We have recently shown that gamma-ray induced RAD51 foci are easily visualised in Arabidopsis using a dose of 100 Gy CITATION. As expected, no foci and only diffuse anti-RAD51 nuclear staining were observed in root tip nuclei of unirradiated control plantlets (CITATION). Numerous foci were detected in nuclei from rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP root tips fixed one or two hours after 100 Gy of gamma-rays (CITATION), confirming that the ability of RAD51 to assemble at sites of DNA damage is retained in somatic cells. The radio-inducibility of the RAD51-GFP was confirmed by western blotting analyses after irradiation (CITATION and CITATION). (A) Immunolocalisation of RAD51-GFP in nuclei of rad51 RAD51-GFP plants fixed just before, and 1 or 2 hours after 100 Gy gamma-irradiation. Irradiation-induced RAD51-GFP foci are clearly visible in nuclei of the irradiated plants. DNA is stained with DAPI (blue) and RAD51-GFP foci (detected using an antibody against RAD51) are coloured in red. Images are collapsed Z-stack projections of a deconvoluted 3D image stack. (Scale Bar: 2 µm). (B) Immunolocalisation of RAD51-GFP in pollen mother cells (PMCs) of rad51 RAD51-GFP mutants using an antibody against RAD51. DNA is stained with DAPI (blue) and RAD51-GFP foci are red. Synaptonemal complex protein ASY1 (in green) was used as a meiotic stage marker. Images are collapsed Z-stack projections of a deconvoluted 3D image stack. (Scale Bar: 10 µm). The ability of the RAD51-GFP fusion to assemble at DNA breaks in meiotic cells was confirmed by immunolocalisation of RAD51 and ASY1 in pollen mother cell nuclei of rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants, which show the expected numerous meiotic RAD51 foci (CITATION). Immunostaining of DMC1 protein in these nuclei revealed the expected presence of abundant DMC1 foci in the rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants (CITATION). The RAD51-GFP protein is thus present and forms nucleofilaments in rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants. Meiosis is normal and the severe, prophase I chromosome fragmentation of rad51 mutants is fully complemented by the fusion protein. RAD51-GFP is properly expressed and forms the expected radio-induced foci in mitotic cells, but is catalytically non-functional in mitotic HR. The most straightforward explanation for these results is that DMC1 protein carries out meiotic DSB repair in rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants, and that it requires the presence of the (catalytically non-functional) RAD51-GFP protein. Should this be so, in the absence of DMC1, the RAD51-GFP protein should no longer be able to complement the rad51 meiotic phenotype (chromosomal fragmentation). We thus crossed rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP and dmc1 mutant plants and identified the rad51/rad51, dmc1/dmc1, and rad51/rad51 dmc1/dmc1 mutants in the F2, with and without RAD51-GFP. Observation of meiosis in pollen mother cells of these plants showed the expected ten intact univalents in dmc1 (CITATION), and fragmented chromosomes in rad51 metaphase I (CITATION). Meiosis progresses normally in rad51 mutants expressing RAD51-GFP, with 5 bivalents visible at Metaphase I (CITATION). Extensive chromosome fragmentation and fusion were observed in 100% of the meiocytes (n = 16) of rad51/rad51 dmc1/dmc1 RAD51-GFP plants (CITATION), clearly confirming that the meiotic DSB repair observed in rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP mutants is DMC1-dependent. In accord with the dominant negative mitotic phenotype, chromosome fragmentation was also observed in all meiocytes of dmc1/dmc1 RAD51/rad51 plants expressing the RAD51-GFP fusion protein (n = 30. CITATION). The dominance was however incomplete, with fragmentation observed in only 61% of dmc1/dmc1 RAD51/RAD51 meiocytes expressing the RAD51-GFP fusion protein (n = 31). Meiotic spreads of PMCs showing ten intact univalents in dmc1 mutants (A), strong chromosome fragmentation in rad51 mutants (B) and five normal bivalents in rad51 RAD51-GFP mutants (C). In rad51 RAD51-GFP dmc1 mutants (D to F) all meiotic nuclei show strong chromosome fragmentation. (Scale Bar: 10 µm). The proportions of meiocytes with fragmented chromosomes for each genotype are shown (G). (A) is metaphase II and (B to G) are metaphase I/Anaphase I. These data confirm that the complementation of the meiotic chromosome fragmentation and sterility of Arabidopsis rad51 mutant plants by the RAD51-GFP protein is fully dependent upon the presence of DMC1. DMC1 is thus able to repair all meiotic DSB in Arabidopsis and depends upon the presence, not the strand exchange activity, of RAD51 to do so. The RAD51 and DMC1 recombinases play essential roles in the repair of SPO11-induced meiotic DSB. The strikingly different phenotypes of Arabidopsis rad51 and dmc1 mutants however provide a clear illustration of their differing roles: the intact univalents in dmc1 meiosis, and chromosome fragmentation in rad51 meiosis showing that although RAD51 is able to repair all DSBs in the absence of DMC1, DMC1 cannot do so in the absence of RAD51. The absence of chiasmata in dmc1 mutants furthermore confirming that interhomologue crossing-over is a DMC1-dependent process. As shown above, meiotic DSB repair is carried out by the activity of DMC1 alone in rad51 RAD51-GFP plants. We thus checked whether this results in elevated levels of meiotic interhomologue crossing-over in these plants. WT plants and rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP plants of the Columbia (Col) ecotype were crossed to a wild-type plant of the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype, to yield RAD51/rad51 plants heterozygotes for the RAD51-GFP transgene, and wild-type RAD51/RAD51 Col/Ler hybrids in the F1 (the dominant negative effect of the transgene allows analysis in F1 plants, see above and CITATION). Meiotic recombination was evaluated by analysing the segregation of markers in F2 populations originating from at least two F1 hybrid parents of each genotype. We measured crossing-over rates in two genetic intervals defined by insertion/deletion (INDEL) DNA sequence markers on chromosomes 1 and 3 (CITATION). As seen in CITATION, no effect was observed on meiotic crossing-over rates in the rad51 separation-of-function mutant for either of the two genetic intervals. This was confirmed through counting chiasmata in metaphase I of wild-type and rad51/rad51 RAD51-GFP male meiocytes, which show means of 9.6 (SD = 0.5; n = 23) and 9.5 (SD = 0.5; n = 16) chiasmata per meiosis respectively. These results concord with those reported for the rad51-II3A yeast mutant and strongly suggest, as in yeast, that DMC1 is the catalytically active strand-exchange protein in Arabidopsis meiosis, and that RAD51 plays a supporting role CITATION.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana rad51 (AT5G20850) and dmc1 (AT3G22880) mutants used in this work have been previously described CITATION, CITATION. Plants were grown under standard conditions: seeds were stratified in water at 4°C for 2 days and grown on soil or in vitro on 0.8% agar plates, 1% sucrose and 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts (M0255; Duchefa Biochemie). Plants were then cultivated in a greenhouse or growth chamber with a 16/8 hour light/dark cycle, temperature 23°C and 45% to 60% relative humidity. For translational GFP fusions, the genomic region without stop codon and a 1036 bp 5′ upstream sequence of RAD51 was amplified (forward primer TGATTAGCATTTAGCGTCAAG and reverse primer ATCCTTGCAATCTGTTACACC), inserted into pDONR221 and verified by sequencing. The complete fragment was then cloned into the GATEWAY destination vector pB7FWG2 in which the 35S promoter was removed with a SacI/SpeI digest CITATION. The plasmid was inserted in an Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 strain and used to transform wild-type and rad51 mutant plants by the floral dip method CITATION. For the Mitomycin C sensitivity assay, seeds were surface-sterilised and sown onto solid medium containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% sucrose, 0.8% agar and 0, 10, 20 or 40 µM Mitomycin C (SIGMA). After stratification for 2 days at 4°C, plants were grown for two weeks and sensitivity analysed as previously described CITATION, CITATION. Plants with more than three true leaves were considered as resistant CITATION, CITATION. The IU.GUS in planta recombination tester locus consisting of an interrupted ß-glucuronidase (GUS) gene and an internal repair template GUS sequence CITATION–CITATION was used to determine the rate of spontaneous somatic homologous recombination. Seeds were surface-sterilised, stratified at 4°C for 2 days and grown in petri dishes on 0.8% w/v agar, 1% w/v sucrose and 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts for 2 weeks. Seedlings were then harvested and incubated in staining buffer containing 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), 0.2% v/v Triton X100, and 2 mM X-Gluc dissolved in N,N-dimethylformamide. Plants were then infiltrated under vacuum for 15 min and incubated 24 hours at 37°C. Staining solution was replaced with 70% ethanol to remove chlorophyll and blue spots counted under a dissecting microscope. Wild-type and rad51 RAD51-GFP mutant plants (Col ecotype) were crossed with wild-type Landsberg erecta ecotype (Ler) plants. RAD51/rad51 heterozygotes carrying the RAD51-GFP (also heterozygous), and RAD51/RAD51 wild-type F1, Col/Ler hybrids were selected. Meiotic recombination rates were monitored in the F2 segregating populations by INDEL marker genotyping. For genotyping, seeds from the F2 populations were surface-sterilised and grown in vitro on 0.5× MS, 1% sucrose, 0.8% agar for two-weeks. Individual seedlings were harvested, DNA extracted using NaCl method and samples genotyped by PCR followed by analysis on 2% agarose gels. Meiotic chromosome spreads were prepared according to Ross CITATION with the modifications introduced by Fransz CITATION. Whole inflorescences were fixed in ice-cold ethanol/glacial acetic acid (3∶1) for 3×30 min and stored at −20°C until further use. Immature flower buds were rinsed twice at room temperature in distilled water for 5 min followed by two washes in 1× citrate buffer for 5 min. Buds of appropriate size were selected under a binocular microscope and incubated for 3.5 h on a slide in 100 µl of enzyme mixture (0.3% w/v cellulase (Sigma), 0.3% w/v pectolyase (Sigma) and 0.3% cytohelicase (Sigma) in a moist chamber at 37°C. Each bud was then softened for 1 minute in 15 µl 60% acetic acid on a microscope slide at 45°C, fixed with ice-cold ethanol/glacial acetic acid (3∶1) and air dried. Finally, slides were mounted in Vectashield mounting medium with DAPI (1.5 µg.ml−1; Vector Laboratories Inc., http://www.vectorlabs.com/). Five day-old seedlings were irradiated with a dose of 100 Gy from a 137Cs source according to Charbonnel et al. (2010). Preparation and immunostaining of nuclei were performed as previously described CITATION, except that slides were incubated with primary antibody (1∶100) for 24 hours at 4°C. The RAD51 antibody used in this study has been previously described and was raised in rabbit CITATION. Immunolocalisation of proteins in pollen mother cells was performed as described previously CITATION, with the modifications introduced by Kurzbauer et al CITATION. The anti-ASY1 raised in Guinea-Pig CITATION, CITATION was used at a dilution of 1∶250. The anti-ZYP1 raised in rat CITATION was used at a dilution of 1∶250. The anti-RAD51 raised in rabbit CITATION was used at a dilution of 1∶100, and the anti-DMC1 raised in rabbit CITATION was used at a dilution of 1∶20. All observations were made with a motorised Zeiss AxioImager.Z1 epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss AG, Germany) using a PL Apochromat 100X/1.40 oil objective. Photographs were taken with an AxioCam Mrm camera (Carl Zeiss AG, Germany) and appropriate Zeiss filter sets adapted for the fluorochromes used: filter set 25HE (DAPI), filter set 38HE (Alexa 488), and filter set 43HE (Alexa 596). Image stacks were captured in three dimensions (x, y, z) and further deconvoluted with the deconvolution module (theoretical PSF, iterative algorithm) of AxioVision 4.6.2 software (Carl Zeiss AG, Germany). For presentation, the pictures are collapsed Z-stack projections obtained using the Extended-focus module (projection method) of the AxioVision 4.6.2 software.
