!~ABS~! Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are small secretory proteins in plants with defined lipid-binding structures for possible lipid exocytosis. Special groups of LTPs unique to the anther tapetum are abundant, but their functions are unclear. We studied a special group of LTPs, type III LTPs, in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Their transcripts were restricted to the anther tapetum, with levels peaking at the developmental stage of maximal pollen-wall exine synthesis. We constructed an LTP-Green Fluorescent Protein (LTP-GFP) plasmid, transformed it into wild-type plants, and monitored LTP-GFP in developing anthers with confocal laser scanning microscopy. LTP-GFP appeared in the tapetum and was secreted via the endoplasmic reticulum-trans-Golgi network machinery into the locule. It then moved to the microspore surface and remained as a component of exine. Immuno-transmission electron microscopy of native LTP in anthers confirmed the LTP-GFP observations. The in vivo association of LTP-GFP and exine in anthers was not observed with non-type III or structurally modified type III LTPs or in transformed exine-defective mutant plants. RNA interference knockdown of individual type III LTPs produced no observable mutant phenotypes. RNA interference knockdown of two type III LTPs produced microscopy-observable morphologic changes in the intine underneath the exine (presumably as a consequence of changes in the exine not observed by transmission electron microscopy) and pollen susceptible to dehydration damage. Overall, we reveal a novel transfer pathway of LTPs in which LTPs bound or nonbound to exine precursors are secreted from the tapetum to become microspore exine constituents; this pathway explains the need for plentiful LTPs to incorporate into the abundant exine.
!~RES~! The expression of the 49 individual LTP paralogs in Arabidopsis was diverse or restricted in various plant parts, as revealed by Affymetrix microarray data (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/). LTPs encoded by paralogs exhibiting diverse expression would putatively perform a housekeeping function. LTPs encoded by paralogs exhibiting restricted expression would play a role unique to the specific plant parts. Our laboratory has been elucidating the mechanism of action of the anther tapetum. In this project, we paid attention to LTP paralogs exhibiting restricted expression in inflorescence (Table I). An inflorescence includes metabolically active tapeta, microspores, and carpels as well as petals, sepals, and various other cell types. Therefore, LTP transcripts restricted to inflorescence are not necessarily present exclusively, largely, or at all in the tapetum. Affymetrix microarray data, shown in arbitrary units of absolute signal intensity, are from NASC (http://affymetric.arabidopsis.info/). The LTP type, Mr (without the putative N-terminal signal peptide), and pI data are from CITATION. The flower bud stages were defined according to The Arabidopsis Information Resource. Low levels of the LTP transcripts in other plant parts are shown. Type III LTP transcripts are highlighted in boldface. We chose type III LTPs, whose transcripts are restricted to inflorescence, for further studies (Table I). Type III LTPs have an uncharacteristic low pI of approximately 4 in Arabidopsis (but approximately 7 in rice), fewer than 70 residues (the smallest size among all LTP types), and no potential glycophosphatidylinositol modification site (CITATION). Their genes possess an intron at a DNA site not found in genes of other LTP types (CITATION). Levels of type III LTP transcripts peaked at an early stage of flower development, designated stages 7 to 9 by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). In a massively parallel signature sequencing analysis of a mixture of inflorescences of stages 1 to 12, the transcript levels of two of the three type III LTPs (At5g62080 and At5g07230; data not available for At52160) combined represented 0.13% of the total transcripts per million (http://mpss.udel.edu/at/mpss_index.php). These inflorescences contain several groups of metabolically active cells/tissues, including tapeta, microspores and pollen in anthers, various cell types in the carpel, petals, and sepals, and others. Because all of the type III transcripts are restricted to the tapetum in anthers at an early developmental stage (see below), their presence in the tapetum at the peak transcript stage could be several percent of the total mRNA. The high percentage of type III LTP transcripts estimated to be in the tapetum of Arabidopsis reflects that found experimentally in the tapetum of rice (5.7% in anthers [CITATION]), from which anthers at specific developmental stages could be obtained for more precise analysis. During flower development, transcript levels of At5g62080 and At5g52160 increased and peaked at stages 7 to 8 and then decreased in a similar pattern, whereas that of At5g07230 had a slightly delayed developmental timing (Fig. 1A). We focused on two type III LTPs in all subsequent studies: At5g62080, with transcripts having a developmental pattern similar to those of At5g52160 (see below), and At5g07230, with transcripts having a delayed developmental timing. [[FIGURE]] We explored the subflower location of type III LTP transcripts. We attached the LTP gene promoter of approximately 2 kb to a GFP gene and transformed the DNA construct into wild-type plants. In transformed plants, the GFP signal appeared in developing anthers and peaked at stages 7 and 8 and was restricted to the tapetum of the whole flower (Fig. 1B). Other cells of the anthers, including microspores and the epidermis as well as other inflorescence cells and other cells of the whole plants, showed no GFP signal (data not shown). Although the tapetum in most higher plants is described as secretory, the mechanism of subcellular tapetum secretion has not been explored in much detail until recently with maize (CITATION). The mode of secretion of LTP from the tapetum has not been explored. In this study with Arabidopsis, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed abundant rough ER, occasional Golgi bodies, and the trans-Golgi network (TGN; Fig. 2A). The presence of rough ER and Golgi bodies in the tapetum cells has been observed by others (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In the Arabidopsis tapetum, the secretory organelles were distributed throughout the cell rather than concentrated in the cell portion near the locule, as in maize (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Intact tapetum cells from anthers of plants transformed with an LTP-GFP construct, which included the At5g62080 promoter and coding region tagged with GFP at the 3′ terminus, were examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) for GFP fluorescence (shown in green) and immunoprocessed calnexin (an ER marker, in magenta; Fig. 2B). LTP and calnexin were each present as a network distributed extensively throughout the cell. The two networks overlapped substantially (overlapping area represented by white color) but not completely. In our study, 70.6% ± 4.2% of the LTP-GFP signal overlapped (see “Materials and Methods”) with the calnexin signal, and 47.8% ± 1.9% of the calnexin signal overlapped with the LTP-GFP signal. The nonoverlapping regions of LTP could represent TGN and nearby vesicles or different ER subdomains. TGN (in magenta), revealed via immunodetection of its marker SYP61 (CITATION), had a more restricted distribution within the cell; it overlapped with only 13.1% ± 2.9% of the LTP-GFP network, and 44.6% ± 11.4% of the SYP61 signal overlapped with the LTP-GFP signal (Fig. 2C). We further tested the idea that the export of LTP-GFP was mediated by the vesicular transport system involving ER-TGN. Stage 7 anthers from transgenic plants expressing LTP-GFP were treated with brefeldin A (BFA), an inhibitor of the vesicular transport system (CITATION). Disrupting the transport pathway with BFA would block the export of LTP-GFP out of the tapetum cells and result in the accumulation of LTP-GFP inside the cells. In stage 7 anthers (Fig. 2D), LTP-GFPs were being secreted out of the tapetum cell, and the LTP-GFP signals were mostly present in the locule space between microspore mother cells (large arrowheads at 0 h) as well as in the apoplastic space between the tapetum cells (small arrowheads at 0 h). These extracellular spaces of the locule are apparently interconnected, because LTP-GFP signals can be seen to freely flow within the spaces in a live recording (data not shown). The LTP signals were relatively fewer inside the tapetum cells (arrows at 0 h). After 3 h of incubation in 20 μg mL−1 BFA, the LTP-GFP signals increased by about 60% inside the tapetum cells (Fig. 2D; see “Materials and Methods”), signifying blocking of the ER-TGN transport system. In contrast, the LTP-GFP signals in tapetum cells of anthers after incubation without BFA increased only about 7% in comparison with cells at 0 h. In both BFA-treated and untreated anthers, the overall LTP-GFP signals decreased by about 15% after the incubation, and the locule space among microspore mother cells and the tapetum became less defined (Fig. 2D), presumably because the anthers had been removed from their natural growth condition. This loss of sharpness was more pronounced in BFA-treated anthers, likely due to the effect of BFA on both the tapetum and microspore mother cells. The overall observation in Figure 2 supports the idea that LTP-GFPs were exported via the ER-TGN pathway. We traced the locations of LTP-GFP in anthers during development in plants transformed with a type III LTP-GFP construct, which included the promoter and coding region. The LTP-GFP fluorescence signal first appeared in the tapetum at early stage 7, when microspores were in tetrads (Fig. 3). At late stage 7 and stage 8, LTP-GFP was abundant in the locule, with decreasing amounts in the still-intact tapetum. At stage 9, LTP-GFP appeared both in the locule and on the microspore surface. Eventually, at stage 10, most of the GFP was present on the microspore surface. Beginning at stage 10 and onward, the LTP-GFP fluorescence became weaker and gradually disappeared. Presumably the fluorescence properties of LTP-GFP vanished after its association with and modifications in the microspore wall. [[FIGURE]] We detected the association of At5g62080 LTP-GFP with the microspore surface in stage 10 anthers of transformed plants (Fig. 3). For convenience and direct comparison, we removed the microspores from anthers and monitored the microspore surface fluorescence. In nontransformed plants, no GFP fluorescence other than faint background fluorescence was present on microspores (Fig. 4A). In transformed plants, LTP-GFP fluorescence was associated with the microspore surface, overlapping with the autofluorescence of the pollen wall. After the microspores had been stained with tinopal for the cellulosic cell wall (CITATION), LTP-GFP fluorescence was present together with (as a white ring in Fig. 4A) and also slightly exterior to the tinopal stain. We tested whether the binding of LTP-GFP to the microspore surface required the LTP protein per se. In transformed plants with GFP attached only to the LTP signal peptide (i.e. without the mature LTP peptide), signal peptide-GFP was not found on microspores. Overall, LTP-GFP was present in the exine of microspores, and the domain required for association was the LTP per se. A similar finding, but with fewer details, of At5g07230-GFP fluorescence overlapping with pollen wall autofluorescence is shown in Supplemental Figure S1. [[FIGURE]] The location of native At5g62080 LTP without the GFP tag in nontransformed plants was explored with immuno-TEM. We generated rabbit polyclonal antibodies against a synthetic peptide unique to the C-terminal region of At5g62080. Immunoblotting after SDS-PAGE revealed that the antibodies were specific for At5g62080, with a very slight reactivity toward its closest paralog protein, At5g07230 (Supplemental Fig. S2), and that At5g62080 occurred at an early stage of flower development (Fig. 4B). For immuno-TEM, anthers were treated with a freeze-fixation procedure (see “Materials and Methods”) to preserve proteins in the aqueous locule. In stage 10 anthers, with the exine just formed, immunogold particles were present largely in the nexine and sexine of exine and some in the locule (Fig. 4C). Electron-dense particles inside the microspore protoplasts were mostly larger and irregularly shaped and were not immunogold particles. At an earlier stage (stage 8) immediately before the exine appeared, most of the immunogold particles were present in the locule (Supplemental Fig. S3 shows a sequence of images of stage 8–10 anthers). Tabulation with statistical analysis of immunogold particles (CITATION) in the anther locule and exine (Supplemental Table S1) indicates that there was a shift in immunogold particles from the locule to the exine from stage 8 to stage 10; this shift is consistent with the LTP-GFP fluorescence shown in Figure 3. The immunogold particles in the tapetum cells and the intracellular microspores throughout development were considered to have arisen from random labeling based on statistical analysis, reflecting the well-known high background in the relatively nonspecific immunogold detection compared with the sensitive and highly specific GFP fluorescence detection. We tested whether GFP-tagged type III LTPs with modified structures would target to microspores in transformed plants. An LTP molecule has eight conserved Cys residues, which form four defined disulfide bridges for a three-dimensional structure. The four bridges in type III LTPs are shown in Figure 5A. We altered the first Cys residue (to produce C1-MU-GFP) or the eighth Cys residue (C8-MU-GFP) to an Ala residue by modifying the codon in At5g62080 and then attached GFP to the DNA construct for plant transformation. Neither of the two modified At5g62080 LTP-GFP proteins was present on microspores of transformed plants (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] We also tested whether GFP-tagged non-type III LTPs would target microspores in transformed plants. Transcripts of At3g07450 and At3g52130 encoding type IX LTPs were present mostly in inflorescence and appeared slightly before type III LTP transcripts during flower development (Table I), and the transcripts of At3g51600 encoding type I were abundant in leaves (NASC microarray data). In plants transformed with the LTP-GFP driven by the At5g62080 promoter, a trace of At3g07450 GFP was present, whereas the other two LTP-GFPs were absent, on microspores (Fig. 5C). Arabidopsis knockout mutants defective in the synthesis or transport of exine precursors produce pollen with highly degenerated exine and lacking the ability to germinate. The mutant acos5 is defective in producing fatty acyl-CoA synthase in the tapetum, whose enzymic product is likely a precursor of exine (CITATION). The mutant abcg26 is defective in producing the ABCG transporter in the tapetum for exine precursor export (CITATION). We tested whether At5g62080 LTP-GFP would target microspores in transformed exine-defective mutants. The proteins did not target microspores in the two transformed mutants (Fig. 6). In the control wild type, LTP-GFP was present in the locule at stage 8 and on microspores at stage 10. In the two mutants, LTP-GFP was present in the locule at both stages, which indicates the successful secretion of the protein to the locule from the tapetum but the failure of the protein to bind to the microspore surface. [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis transfer DNA knockout mutants of At5g62080 and At5g07230 are unavailable. Earlier, antisense knockdown of the transcripts of A9, an ortholog of At5g02730, in B. napus led to no observable mutation phenotype (CITATION). In our study, we generated RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown mutants of At5g62080 or At5g07230 and observed with TEM no apparent changes in the microspore surface (Supplemental Fig. S4). We further generated an RNAi vector driven by the At5g62080 promoter, which could create double knockdown mutants of At5g62080 and At5g07230 (Supplemental Fig. S5). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR showed that in the studied transgenic lines, the transcript levels of At5g62080 and At5g07230 were specifically and substantially reduced (Fig. 7A). Nonetheless, these lines all produced fertile pollen. We chose two lines, DRNAi-5 and DRNAi-1, which had the fewest transcripts of At5g62080 and At5g07230 (Fig. 7A), for further study. Scanning electron microscopy of mature pollen revealed no apparent difference in the surface structure between the mutants and the wild type (Fig. 7B). TEM also revealed no appreciable and consistent difference in the exine and coat materials between the mutants and the wild type (Fig. 7C). However, the intine of microspores at stage 11 was consistently less electron dense in DRNAi-5 than in the wild type and appeared to have separated from the exine and the microspore plasma membrane (Fig. 7C). We consider it unlikely that the observed morphological defect of the intine in the mutant compared with the wild type was a TEM fixation artifact, because the two types of anthers were fixed and processed for TEM in the same experiment, and six different anthers of each type showed similar intine disparity. The disparity could be related to changes unobserved by TEM in the exine of the mutant, which would affect (1) the penetration of fixatives from the microspore surface to the underneath intine or (2) physically the proper formation of the underlying intine by microspores. Regardless, the disparity in the intine of the mutant and the wild type was also manifested with intine-specific tinopal staining: the stain was fragmented in the mutant but continuous in the wild type (Fig. 7D). Finally, we tested whether the mutants, as a consequence of unobserved deficiency in the exine trickling down to the observed deficiency in the intine, would produce pollen that was more susceptible to dehydration. Pollen was placed at 30% relative humidity and 37°C for 1 to 5 h and then allowed to germinate on an agar medium. Pollen of the mutants germinated as well as that of the wild type before dehydration treatment but became less viable after 3 to 5 h of dehydration (Fig. 7E). The lack of a drastic pollen deficiency in the mutants could reflect that At5g62080 and At5g07230 perform a redundant function, that the knockdowns were insufficient, and that the third type III LTP (At5g52160; Table I) alone would be sufficient to carry out the function. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium on plates after sterilization and vernalization. Transfer DNA insertion mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. For GFP and RNAi transgenic plants, the Murashige and Skoog medium contained 30 μg mL−1 hygromycin and 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin, respectively. After germination for 6 d, the seedlings were transplanted to soil and grown in a growth chamber at 22°C in a daily cycle of 16 h of light/8 h of dark. The microarray data of Arabidopsis were downloaded from the NASC International Affymetric Service (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/) and analyzed with the use of Perl programming language. We selected LTPs with expression 10-fold higher in inflorescences than other plant parts (Table I). In the collection of developing flowers, the flower buds were harvested 10 to 18 d after the beginning of bolting. The flower stages were judged by size selection (0.6, 0.7, 0.8, and 1.0 mm for stages 7, 8, 9, and 10, respectively) with a dissecting microscope. Tissues were collected and ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen with the use of a mortar. Total RNA was isolated with the use of the Illustra RNAspin mini kit (GE Healthcare). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 2.5 μg of total RNA with the use of Thermoscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) for RT-PCR. Gene-specific primer pairs were designed according to the sequences of specific genes (Supplemental Table S2). Amplified DNA fragments were analyzed on 1% agarose gels. A cDNA fragment encoding LTP without an N-terminal signal peptide was conjugated with 6-His-tag DNA by three-step PCR. First, LTP fragments were generated from cDNA by the use of a gene-specific reverse primer and a partial His-tag DNA sequence as a forward primer. DNA encoding 6-His-tag and MscI sites was added to the 5′ terminus after the second and third steps of PCR by the use of a BamHI site-containing reverse primer paired with the primers pET32-6His-F and pET32-6His-MscI-F, respectively (Supplemental Table S2). After BamHI digestion, the PCR product was cloned into the MscI and BamHI sites of pET32a and then transformed into Escherichia coli strain Origami. Transformed E. coli was induced by 1 mm isopropyl-β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside treatment, and the Trx-6His-LTP was purified with a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose column. The Trx-6His-LTP was subjected to Factor Xa protease treatment for the release of thioredoxin. For constructing GFP expression vectors, the promoter region (approximately 2 kb) was amplified from genomic DNA with gene-specific primers for At5g62080 (primers At5g62060pro-SalI and At5g62080pro-NcoI) and At5g07230 (At5g07230pro-SacI and At5g07230pro-NcoI). The sequences of all primers are shown in Supplemental Table S2. After enzyme digestion, the PCR fragments were ligated into pCAMBIA1302, and the construct was digested with the same enzyme to generate pAt5g62080pro::GFP and pAt5g07230pro::GFP. The cDNA encoding regions of At5g62080, At5g07230, At3g07450, At3g52130, and At3g51600 as well as the Cys mutant fragment of At5g62080 were amplified by RT-PCR with primer pairs containing specific restriction sites. The cDNA fragments were cloned into the NcoI/SpeI sites of pAt5g62080pro::GFP or pAt5g07230pro::GFP to generate pAt5g62080pro::LTP-GFP or pAt5g07230pro::LTP-GFP. For At5g62080, At3g07450, and At3g52130, the PCR fragments were cloned into the NcoI/SpeI sites by sticky-end PCR because of the presence of NcoI sites in the coding region. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing. For the RNAi expression vector, the 35S promoter of pHELLSGATE (CITATION) was replaced with the At5g62080 promoter. First, the 2-kb promoter DNA of At5g62080 and a negative selectable marker (ccdB) were amplified by PCR with primers containing SacI/HpaI and HpaI/KpnI sites (Supplemental Table S2), respectively. The two PCR fragments were digested with SacI and KpnI, respectively, fused by T4 ligase, and cloned into KpnI/SacI-digested pHELLSGATE to replace the 35S::ccdB cassette. The product was denoted pAt5g62080pro-HELLSGATE. cDNA fragments encoded by At5g62080 and At5g07230 were ligated and conjugated with the attB recombination site by PCR. First, PCR was used to generate a megaprimer from At5g07230 cDNA with the primers 080-230-linker-F and At5g07230-attB2-R. A second-round PCR was performed to create the At5g62080-At5g07230 fusion, with the megaprimer used as the reverse primer and the forward primer At5g62080-attB1-F. After creation of the At5g62080-At5g07230 fusion, PCR was used to add the aatB site with primers attB1-F and attB2-R. The attB1-At5g62080-At5g07230-attB2 fragment was sequenced for confirmation and cloned into pAt5g62080pro-HELLSGATE by the use of BP clonase (Invitrogen) to produce the pDouble-RNAi (Supplemental Fig. S5). All constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis by the floral dip method (CITATION). The putative amino acid sequence was analyzed by the use of IEDB antibody epitope prediction software (http://tools.immuneepitope.org/tools/bcell/iedb_input). The peptide RAATSLPSLCNLPPVDCGINA was selected. The peptide was chemically synthesized (Minotope) and conjugated to ovalbumin. The conjugate was injected into rabbits, and antibodies were purified from serum. The antibodies were used for immuno-TEM and immunoblotting after SDS-PAGE. Antibodies against tubulin were from Sigma-Aldrich. Anti-calnexin against the castor bean (Ricinus communis) protein was a gift from Dr. Sean Coughlan, and anti-SYP61 was a gift from Prof. L.W. Jiang. Proteins in samples were separated by 15% (w/v) SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and stained with Coomassie blue or subjected to immunoblotting with rabbit antibodies against At5g62080 (CITATION). All images were captured on a Zeiss LSM 510Meta confocal microscope with a 40× or 63× (numerical aperture 1.2) water-immersion objective and Zeiss LSM 510 version 3.2 software. GFP and chlorophyll in samples were excited with the 488-nm argon laser line, and emission was detected with 500- to 530-nm and 650- to 710-nm band-pass filters, respectively. To distinguish GFP from the autofluorescence of the microspore exine, microspores were excited with the 488-nm argon laser line and captured with the lambda mode of Zeiss LSM 510 Meta. Images for GFP were generated by extracting channels between 505 and 526 nm, and images for exine autofluorescence were generated by extracting channels between 526 and 644 nm. For intine staining, microspores were incubated in 10 μg mL−1 Tinapol LPW (also known as Fluorescent Brightener 28; Sigma-Aldrich) for 5 min. Tinapol stain was excited with a Coherent Chameleon two-photon laser at 740 nm, and emission was detected at 435 to 485 nm. For immunofluorescence, anthers were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.15 m Suc for 1 to 2 h at 24°C. Fixed anthers were cut horizontally with a razor into pieces on poly-Lys-coated slides. The gentle pressure from the cutting action pushed the loosely associated microspore mother cells, young microspores, and tapetum cells away from the anther wall cells. Then, the samples were allowed to stand for 10 min for the cells to attach to the poly-Lys-coated surface. The samples were mounted under a coverslip, which was sealed by Vaseline on two sides to generate a microperfusion chamber. The subsequent reagents were exchanged via perfusion. The samples were treated with 0.1% Triton X-100 in PBS to facilitate permeability and blocked in 0.15% normal donkey serum in PBS. The cells were then incubated sequentially with anti-calnexin or anti-SYP61, both at 1:100 dilution for 2 h at 37°C, and cyanine 3-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (1:400; Jackson ImmunoResearch) for 45 min at 37°C, with three washes in PBS between incubations. Cyanine 3 was excited with the 543-nm helium-neon laser line, and emission was detected at 560 to 615 nm. Colocalization of GFP and immunoreacted ER or TGN markers, as well as quantification of GFP intensity in tapetum cells and the locule of BFA-treated anthers, were analyzed with the use of the image-analysis software MetaMorph (version 7.7.4.0). In colocalization analysis, the signals corresponding to the two separate channels of each CLSM image were highlighted in images derived from the respective channel with the “Threshold” function. The percentage of overlapping between the highlighted areas of the two images corresponding to the respective channels was calculated using the “Measure Colocalization” function. The presented percentage of overlap was the average of measurements from at least five separate cells. In quantification of the GFP fluorescence intensity in tapetum cells and the locule of anthers before and after BFA (or control) treatment, fluorescence intensities in anthers were captured with the same setting (laser power and detection gain). The intracellular region of individual tapetum cells was selected manually with the “Region” tool, and the average intensity of each selected region was generated using the “Region Measurement” command. The average intensity of each region, after subtraction from background intensity, was normalized to the average intensity of the whole anther lobe to correct for the overall intensity change. Ten tapetum cells from two separate anther lobes were measured. Scanning electron microscopy involved the use of a Quanta 200 microscope equipped with a cryo system (Quorum PP2000TR; FEI). Samples were freshly prepared and loaded on a stub. After treatment with liquid nitrogen, samples were transferred to a preparation chamber at −160°C and then etched at −85°C for 10 to 15 min. After coating with gold at −130°C, samples were transferred to the cryo stage in the scanning electron microscope chamber and examined at −160°C and 20 kV. For TEM, anthers were fixed via a high-pressure freezing or chemical fixation procedure. For the former, anthers were fixed in a high-pressure freezer (Leica EM PACT2) and then subjected to freeze substitution in ethanol (containing 0.2% glutaraldehyde and 0.1% uranyl acetate) with the Leica Automatic Freeze-Substitution System and embedded in LR Gold resin (Structural Probe). For chemical fixation, anthers were fixed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde, 4% paraformaldehyde, and 0.1 m potassium phosphate (pH 7.0) at 4°C for 24 h. The materials were washed with 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) for 10 min twice and then treated with 1% OsO4 in 0.1 m potassium phosphate (pH 7.0) at 24°C for 4 h. The fixed materials were rinsed with 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), dehydrated through an acetone series, and embedded in Spurr resin. Ultrathin sections (70–90 nm) were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and examined with the use of a Philips CM 100 transmission electron microscope at 80 kV. For immunogold labeling, microtome sections were incubated with 3% bovine serum albumin for 1 h and then with primary antibodies at a preoptimized concentration at 25°C for 2 h. After six washes with Tris-buffered saline containing 1% Tween 20 (TBST) and once with TBST containing 1% bovine serum albumin, sections were incubated with colloidal gold-conjugated secondary antibodies at 25°C for 2 h. Sections were washed six times with TBST and three times with deionized water, stained with 4% uranyl acetate/0.4% lead citrate, and examined with the use of a Philips CM 100 transmission electron microscope at 80 kV. Mature flowers of wild-type and RNAi plants were placed in a 37°C incubator with 30% relative humidity for 1 to 5 h. Pollen grains from flowers were placed on solid pollen germination medium [18% Suc, 0.01% boric acid, 1 mm CaCl2, 1 mm Ca(NO3)2, 1 mm MgSO4, and 0.5% Noble agar] for 5 h at 28°C. Germination of pollen grains of at least 300 per sample was recorded by light microscopy. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Localization of At5g07230-GFP on microspores at a midstage (stage 10) of anther development in transformed plants. Supplemental Figure S2. A phylogenetic tree of floral-specific LTPs from Arabidopsis, rice, and other studied species. Supplemental Figure S3. Immuno-TEM localization of native At5g62080 in the anther locule. Supplemental Figure S4. No apparent phenotype of the surface of stage 12 microspores in At5g62080 and At5g07230 single RNAi mutants. Supplemental Figure S5. Schematic diagram of the RNAi construct for producing double knockdown of At5g62080 and At5g07230. Supplemental Table S1. Quantification of immunogold labeling by anti-At5g62080 in anthers at indicated developmental stages. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used for DNA constructs and RT-PCR.
