!~ABS~! Plastids provide plants with metabolic pathways that are unique among eukaryotes, including the methylerythritol 4-phosphate pathway for the production of isoprenoids essential for photosynthesis and plant growth. Here, we show that the first enzyme of the pathway, deoxyxylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXS), interacts with the J-protein J20 in Arabidopsis thaliana. J-proteins typically act as adaptors that provide substrate specificity to heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), a molecular chaperone. Immunoprecipitation experiments showed that J20 and DXS are found together in vivo and confirmed the presence of Hsp70 chaperones in DXS complexes. Mutants defective in J20 activity accumulated significantly increased levels of DXS protein (but no transcripts) and displayed reduced levels of DXS enzyme activity, indicating that loss of J20 function causes posttranscriptional accumulation of DXS in an inactive form. Furthermore, J20 promotes degradation of DXS following a heat shock. Together, our data indicate that J20 might identify unfolded or misfolded (damaged) forms of DXS and target them to the Hsp70 system for proper folding under normal conditions or degradation upon stress.
!~RES~! Posttranscriptional regulation is a major factor determining the levels of active DXS, the first enzyme of the MEP pathway (Figure 1). To identify protein partners that could posttranslationally modulate DXS activity in Arabidopsis, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening. Among the possible DXS partners identified (see Supplemental Table 1 online), only four proteins were calculated to be interactors with high (category B) or very high (category A) confidence. Of the three category B proteins, only one of them (At3g22970) might localize to plastids, but its function is unknown. Here, we report our work with the only category A protein identified, J20 (At4g13830), also named atDjC20 (CITATION) and atDjC29 (CITATION). J20 is a plastid-localized J-protein that was proposed to contribute to photosynthetic efficiency (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The ability of J20 to bind to DXS was confirmed in vitro by pull-down assays (Figure 2A). Bimolecular fluorescence complementation experiments using leek (Allium ampeloprasum) epidermal cells further showed that, in plant cells, these two proteins interacted in plastids (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). To confirm that J20 and DXS were part of the same complex in Arabidopsis, we performed immunoprecipitation experiments using transgenic plants constitutively expressing a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged version of J20 (35S:J20-GFP lines). Untransformed plants and transgenic lines expressing a GFP-fused DXR enzyme (as a control plastidial protein that does not interact with DXS) were also used for immunoprecipitation experiments with both anti-GFP and preimmune sera. DXS was detected only in 35S:J20-GFP samples immunoprecipitated with the anti-GFP antibody, despite the very low level of J20-GFP protein detected in the input samples (Figure 2B). Taken together, these data show that J20 and DXS can efficiently interact in vivo. [[FIGURE]] Extensive work performed mainly in nonplant systems has previously demonstrated that J-proteins like J20 typically act as adaptors that recognize and deliver protein substrates to Hsp70, a molecular chaperone highly conserved in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The J-domain responsible for the interaction with Hsp70 is well conserved in J20 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), including the His-Pro-Asp tripeptide required for interaction with the chaperone (CITATION; CITATION). Upon interaction, ATP hydrolysis is stimulated to transfer the protein substrate to the Hsp70 chaperone and to drive conformational changes. To test the prediction that J20 might target DXS to the Hsp70 chaperone, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing a GFP-tagged DXS enzyme (35S:DXS-GFP lines) were used to immunoprecipitate DXS-containing complexes using an anti-GFP serum. Immunoblot analysis with an antibody specific for chloroplast Hsp70 proteins showed that these chaperones were indeed present in the immunoprecipitated samples (Figure 2C), confirming that DXS and Hsp70 can be found together in vivo. To understand the biological relevance of the interaction of J20 with DXS, we next analyzed whether plants defective in J20 had any DXS-related phenotype. Changes in DXS activity cause altered sensitivity to clomazone (CLM), a specific DXS inhibitor (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, germination and growth in the presence of CLM result in concentration-dependent bleaching and a concomitant inhibition of true leaf development (Figure 3A), likely due to a reduced production of plastidial isoprenoid products, such as chlorophylls, carotenoids, and MEP-derived hormones (Figure 1). Plants with decreased DXS activity, such as the dxs-3/chs5 mutant (CITATION; CITATION), showed lower resistance to CLM (i.e., produced less chlorophyll when treated with the inhibitor) than the wild type, whereas DXS-overexpressing lines displayed reduced sensitivity to the inhibitor (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Because a good correlation exists between CLM sensitivity and total DXS activity in Arabidopsis (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), we used this CLM assay to evaluate whether the loss of J20 function resulted in altered DXS activity. We first analyzed the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library line SAIL_1179_E04 harboring a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of J20 (see Supplemental Figure 4A online), here referred to as j20-1. Wild-type and j20-1 plants were germinated and grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates supplemented with different concentrations of the inhibitor (Figure 3A). The visual phenotype of the j20-1 mutant at a given concentration of CLM was similar to that of wild-type seedlings grown in the presence of higher concentrations of the inhibitor, indicating that the loss of J20 activity causes an increased sensitivity to CLM. Quantification of CLM sensitivity by measuring chlorophyll levels in CLM-treated plants led to the same conclusion (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Measurement of DXS activity in wild-type and j20-1 seedlings (Figure 4A) confirmed that the decreased CLM resistance phenotype of the mutant was caused by a substantial reduction in DXS activity (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Because determining DXS activity in plant extracts is complicated, from this point we only used the CLM sensitivity assay to estimate DXS activity in vivo. Two independent lines of evidence confirmed that the phenotype of the j20-1 mutant line was specifically caused by the loss of J20 activity. First, independent T-DNA insertion alleles from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library and the Salk collections, herein referred to as j20-2 (SAIL_569_H08) and j20-3 (Salk_134365) (CITATION), also showed CLM sensitivity (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Second, transformation of j20-1 plants with the 35S:J20-GFP construct complemented the CLM sensitivity phenotype of the mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] There are more than 100 J-domain proteins in Arabidopsis, and several of them are targeted to plastids (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, sequence analyses showed that J20 is more similar to J-proteins of other plant species than to the closest Arabidopsis J-domain proteins, J8, J11, and J41 (see Supplemental Figure 5A and Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Arabidopsis mutants impaired in J8 (At1g80920) or J11 (At4g36040) did not show the characteristic CLM sensitivity phenotype observed in J20-defective plants (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Because the similarity between J20 and other plastidial J-proteins from Arabidopsis, including J8 and J11, is much lower at the C-terminal domain (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), which provides substrate specificity (CITATION), it is likely that this domain might confer specificity on J20, allowing it to interact with DXS to deliver the protein to the Hsp70 chaperone. Two plastidial (stromal) Hsp70 chaperones, cpHsp70.1 (At4g24280) and cpHsp70.2 (At5g49910), are found in Arabidopsis (CITATION). If J20 and Hsp70 are part of the same mechanism regulating DXS activity, it should follow that mutants defective in plastidial Hsp70 activity also show a phenotype of higher sensitivity to CLM. Since mutants defective in both cpHsp70.1 and cpHsp70.2 are not viable (CITATION), we analyzed single mutant lines. As shown in Figure 3, both single mutants showed a phenotype of increased CLM sensitivity relative to the wild type, although this phenotype was stronger in the case of the cphsp70.1 mutant. These results together demonstrate that loss of J20 function leads to reduced DXS activity (and, hence, CLM sensitivity) in vivo, most likely because it impairs targeting of this enzyme to the plastidial Hsp70 chaperone system. Hsp70 chaperones participate in protein import into organelles (including plastids), protein folding and assembly, and protein quality control. If J20 activity is required for the import of DXS into plastids, the decrease in enzyme activity observed in j20-1 plants might be a result of reduced DXS protein levels in plastids. To address this possibility, DXS levels were analyzed in chloroplasts isolated from wild-type and mutant j20-1 plants. Strikingly, immunoblot experiments with an anti-DXS antibody showed not decreased but increased levels of DXS protein in mutant chloroplasts (Figure 4B). This result suggests that loss of J20 function impairs processes occurring after the import of DXS, resulting in the accumulation of inactive DXS protein in plastids. Consistent with this, the levels of DXS protein in total protein extracts of j20-1 plants were threefold higher than those in the wild type without changes in the levels of DXS-encoding transcripts (Figure 4C). Although previous results have shown that posttranscriptional mechanisms regulating the accumulation of DXS protein can also affect the levels of DXR, the next enzyme of the MEP pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the amount of DXR protein detected in the same protein extracts showed no differences between mutant and wild-type plants (Figure 4C). In agreement with the presence of similar levels of DXR activity in wild-type and j20-1 plants, no differences were observed in their sensitivity to the DXR-specific inhibitor fosmidomycin (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). These results suggest that J20 is not involved in regulating DXR levels or activity. Neither DXR nor DXS levels changed when the activity of close J20-related J-proteins, such as J8 or J11, was disrupted in mutants (see Supplemental Figure 5C online). To provide additional experimental support to the conclusion that defective J20 activity results in posttranscriptional accumulation of inactive DXS protein inside chloroplasts, a transgenic 35S:DXS-GFP line generated in the wild-type ecotype Columbia was selected to introgress the transgene into the j20-1 background. After the cross, F3 siblings that were double homozygous for the transgene (based on marker gene resistance) and either the wild-type or the mutant J20 gene (based on PCR-based genotyping) were selected. In agreement with the results described above, confocal laser scanning microscopy of GFP fluorescence showed that the DXS-GFP protein was localized to chloroplasts of siblings with either wild-type or mutant J20 genes, but the levels were much higher in mutant plastids (Figure 5A). Interestingly, a spotted pattern of DXS-GFP fluorescence was observed in both types of siblings even though spots were much larger in the case of the mutant. This might be caused by the formation of DXS-GFP aggregates, although we cannot exclude other possibilities, such as the accumulation of the transgenic protein in subplastidial structures. Such aggregates (or structures) would most likely contain DXS in an inactive form because transgenic siblings of the j20-1 background showed reduced resistance to CLM (Figure 5B) despite accumulating increased levels of constitutively expressed DXS-GFP protein (Figure 5C) compared with siblings with functional J20 protein. [[FIGURE]] The results described above suggest that under normal growth conditions, J20 prevents the accumulation of inactive forms of DXS in chloroplasts. If the main role of J20 is to identify non-native DXS polypeptides and deliver them to Hsp70 for proper folding or refolding (i.e., enzyme activation), it could be expected that upregulating J20 levels would result in improved DXS activity. However, the presence of increasing levels of a functional GFP-tagged version of J20 (see Supplemental Figure 4B online) in different 35S:J20-GFP lines led to reduced DXS levels and a bleached phenotype (Figure 6A; see Supplemental Table 2 online). Transgenic lines with highest J20-GFP levels showed an albino phenotype similar to that of the DXS-defective dxs-1/cla1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Despite this dramatic phenotypic effect, no major changes in the levels of other proteins like DXR or Hsp70 isoforms were detected in 35S:J20-GFP lines relative to wild-type (untransformed) or mutant dxs-1/cla1 plants (Figure 6A). These results suggest that abnormally high levels of J20 prevent the accumulation of DXS polypeptides without altering the levels of other plastidial proteins. [[FIGURE]] To evaluate whether J20 might contribute to degrade DXS polypeptides that could be damaged (misfolded) following environmental stress, plants growing at 22°C were transferred to 45°C and samples were collected at different times after the heat shock for immunoblot analysis of DXS protein levels. As shown in Figure 6B, DXS was rapidly degraded after the heat shock in the wild type, whereas the degradation rate was slower in mutant plants. By contrast, DXR was more stable after a heat shock and its levels remained similar in wild-type and j20-1 plants (Figure 6C). The levels of plastidial Hsp70 proteins also remained unchanged in wild-type and mutant plants during this period (Figure 6D), supporting the conclusion that the rate of DXS degradation depends on the levels of J20 but not of Hsp70 chaperones. Together, our data suggest that J20 (via Hsp70) might promote degradation of DXS proteins that are damaged (misfolded) and, hence, inactivated after a heat stress episode.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana lines used in this work are in the Columbia background. Seeds from cphsp70.1 and cphsp70.2 (CITATION) were kindly provided by Hsou-min Li (Academia Sinica, Taiwan), whereas those from j20-3, j8, and j11 mutants (CITATION) were kindly provided by Eva-Mari Aro (University of Turku, Finland). The T-DNA insertion lines SAIL_1179_E04 (j20-1) and SAIL_569_H08 (j20-2) were obtained from the European Stock Centre. For the generation of transgenic plants, full-length cDNAs encoding Arabidopsis DXS or DXR were cloned into plasmid pB7FWG2 (CITATION) and J20 into pCAMBIA1302, respectively. Constructs and primers are described in detail in Supplemental Tables 3 and 4 online. The constructs, encoding the chimeric proteins DXS-GFP, DXR-GFP, and J20-GFP under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter, were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation of Arabidopsis plants. Homozygous lines containing a single T-DNA insertion were selected based on the segregation of the resistance marker (glufosinate or hygromycin, respectively). Seeds were surface-sterilized and germinated in Petri dishes with solid MS medium. When indicated, plates were supplemented with the indicated concentrations of CLM or fosmidomycin. After stratification for 3 d at 4°C, plates were incubated in a growth chamber at 22°C under long days (8 h in darkness and 16 h under fluorescent white light at a PPFD of 60 μmol m−2 s−1). Heat stress experiments were performed by directly transferring plates with 10-d-old seedlings from 22 to 45°C. The yeast two-hybrid screen was performed by Hybrigenics using the Arabidopsis RP1 library (see Supplemental Table 1 online). A recombinant Arabidopsis DXS protein lacking the transit peptide and fused to a C-terminal 6xHis-tag (from clone pET-DXS-His; see Supplemental Table 3 online) was used as a bait (N-LexA-ΔPTDXS-C fusion). The in vitro pull-down assay was performed following a previously described protocol (CITATION). Briefly, constructs pET-DXS-His and pBS-J20 (see Supplemental Table 3 online) were used to synthesize 35S-labeled proteins with the TnT system (Promega). The DXS-His protein was bound to agarose beads and incubated with precleared J20 TnT mix maintaining roughly the same amounts of labeled DXS-His and J20 protein. Following incubation at 4°C for 4 h, agarose beads were pelleted and washed, and the attached proteins were separated and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The gel was dried and exposed to a phosphor imager screen. For bimolecular fluorescence complementation experiments, cDNA sequences encoding full-length DXS and J20 proteins were cloned in appropriate vectors (CITATION) (see Supplemental Table 3 online). Leek (Allium ampeloprasum) epidermal peels were microbombarded with DNA-coated 1 μM gold microcarriers using a Biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad) and incubated at 22°C in the dark for 24 h prior to observation with a Leica TCS 4D confocal laser scanning microscope. Whole plants or chloroplasts isolated as described (CITATION) were used for protein extraction and immunoblot analysis using antibodies against Arabidopsis DXS (developed against the recombinant protein from construct pET-DXS-His by Abyntek), maize (Zea mays) DXR (CITATION) (a kind gift of Michael H. Walter, Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry), chloroplast Hsp70 (Agrisera), or GFP (Invitrogen). The preimmune serum was isolated from rabbits used for the production of the DXS antibody (Abyntek). Total plant protein extracts were obtained from 50 mg of fresh tissue by grinding samples in liquid nitrogen. The powder was resuspended in 100 μL of ice-cold TKMES homogenization buffer (100 mM Tricine-potassium hydroxide, pH 7.5, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, and 10% [w/v] Suc) supplemented with 0.2% (v/v) Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT, 100 μg/mL phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 3 μg/mL E64, and 20 μL/mL protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). The resuspended sample was centrifuged at 2300g for 10 min at 4°C and the supernatant recovered for a second step of centrifugation. Supernatant protein concentration was determined using the Bio-Rad protein assay. After SDS-PAGE, the proteins were electrotransferred to Hybond-P polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Amersham) as described (CITATION). After the protein transfer was completed, membranes were incubated overnight at 4°C with the corresponding primary antibody (diluted 1:500 for DXS, 1:6000 for DXR, 1:6000 for Hsp70, and 1:2000 for GFP). Incubation with the horseradish peroxidase–conjugated secondary antibody (diluted 1:10,000) was performed for 30 min at room temperature. Detection of immunoreactive bands was performed using the ECL Plus reagent (Amersham). Chemiluminescent signals were visualized using a LAS-4000 image analyzer (Fujifilm) and quantified with Quantity One (Bio-Rad). Student’s t test was used to assess statistical significance of quantified differences. For immunoprecipitation experiments, ∼4 g of tissue from 2-week-old plants was ground in liquid nitrogen and incubated in RIPA buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, 150 mM NaCl, 1% [w/v] Nonidet P-40, and 0.1% [w/v] SDS) for 30 min at 4°C on a rotating platform. After centrifugation at 14,000g for 30 min at 4°C, supernatant was filtered through Miracloth (Calbiochem) twice and mixed with Sepharose beads containing the appropriate antibody, previously prepared by overnight incubation of 5 μL of antibody and 100 μL of Sepharose beads (Healthcare) in 10 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7, 150 mM NaCl, and 10 mM EDTA. After incubation for 4 h at 4°C, the mixture was centrifuged (3000g, 2 min, 4°C) and the pellet washed four to five times with RIPA buffer without detergents. To visualize the protein complexes bound to the antibody in the washed beads, 100 μL of protein loading buffer was added to the last pellet and the mixture was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot. Total RNA was isolated using a RNA purification kit (Sigma-Aldrich) and reverse-transcribed using SuperScript II (Invitrogen). The quantitative PCR experiments were performed as described (CITATION) using Fast Start Universal SYBR Green Master Mix (Roche) on a Light Cycler 480 apparatus (Roche). The APT1 (At1g27450) gene was used for normalization. Primer sequences for quantitative PCR reactions are listed in Supplemental Table 4 online. DXS enzyme activity was measured in 10-d-old seedlings grown on MS plates. Whole seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized overnight. Lyophilized tissue (5 mg) was extracted in 1 mL of extraction buffer at 4°C containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 0.5% (v/v) Tween 20, 1% (w/v) polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (average molecular weight = 360,000), 100 μM thiamin pyrophosphate, 10 mM DTT, 1 mM ascorbate, 2 mM imidazole,1 mM sodium fluoride, 1.15 mM sodium molybdate, and 1% protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). Extracts were gently mixed at 4°C for 15 min on a rotating wheel, followed by centrifugation at 20,000g for 20 min. A 30-μL aliquot of each supernatant was mixed with 70 μL of enzyme reaction buffer and incubated for 2 h at 30°C. The reaction buffer for DXS activity contained 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 2,5 mM DTT, 1 mM thiamin pyrophosphate, 10 mM pyruvate, 10 mM glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, 2 mM imidazole, 1 mM sodium fluoride, 1.15 mM sodium molybdate, and 1% protease inhibitor cocktail. After incubation, 100 μL of chloroform was added to each reaction, and the tubes were vigorously vortexed. The mixture was centrifuged at 13,000g for 5 min, and 45 μL of the aqueous (upper) phase was transferred to an liquid chromatography vial containing 5 μL [1,2,3-13C3]DXP at 10 ng/μL. The product of DXS (DXP) was separated using a 1200 series liquid chromatograph (Agilent Technologies) as follows. A 20-μL aliquot of the reaction mixture was injected onto a Nucleodex β-OH column (5 µm, 200 × 4 mm; Macherey-Nagel) with a guard column containing the same sorbent equilibrated at 10% solvent A (10 mM ammonium acetate) and 90% solvent B (acetonitrile). After 5 min of isocratic separation at 10% solvent A, a gradient was initiated, leading to 50% solvent A by 15 min, followed by a wash step with 50% solvent A for 5 min and return to initial conditions and 10 min of further equilibration. Mass selective detection of the eluent was performed using a connected API 3200 triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems) operating in negative ionization mode with the following instrument settings: ion spray voltage of −4200 eV, turbo gas temperature of 700°C, nebulizer gas at 70 p.s.i., heating gas at 70 p.s.i., curtain gas at 20 p.s.i., and collision gas at 5 p.s.i. Multiple reaction monitoring was used to monitor analyte precursor ion → quantifier ion: mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) of 212.9 → 78.9 for enzymatically produced DXP and m/z 215.9 → 78.9 for the isotopic labeled 13C3 DXP internal standard (collision energy of −42 V, declustering potential of −20 V, and entrance potential of −7 V). Both Q1 and Q2 quadrupoles were maintained at unit resolution. Analyst 1.5 software (Applied Biosystems) was used for data acquisition and processing. DXS activity measured in this way was normalized to the mass of tissue used in the protein extract. Quantification was accomplished by comparing the integrated peak area to that of an external standard curve composed of authentic DXP ranging from 0.1 to 10 ng/μL. This amount was normalized to the coeluting peak of [1,2,3-13C3]DXP (detected at m/z 215.9) to correct for ion suppression effects. Unlabeled DXP standard was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, and [1,2,3-13C3]DXP was a kind gift from Wolfgang Eisenreich. Photosynthetic pigments were extracted with 80% (v/v) ice-cold acetone from 50 mg of fresh tissue (whole plants). Chlorophyll determinations were performed as described (CITATION). Sequences were retrieved using the C-terminal domain of Arabidopsis J8, J11, J20, and J41 as queries in BLAST searches on the National Center for Biotechnology Information webpage (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). Sequences lacking the transit peptides predicted with TargetP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP) were aligned with Clustal Omega (www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/) (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online), and a phylogenetic tree rooted at midpoint was constructed using the neighbor-joining method in MEGA5 (megasoftware.net/). The evolutionary distances were computed using the Poisson correction method, and the bootstrap test was selected with 2000 replications. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: J8, At1g80920; J11, At4g36040; J20, At4g13830; J41, At2g17880; cpHsp70.1, At4g24280; cpHsp70.2, At5g49910; DXR, At5g62790; and DXS, At4g15560. Yeast two-hybrid results were submitted to The International Molecular Exchange Consortium (http://www.imexconsortium.org) through IntAct (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/) and assigned the identifier IM-20956. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Arabidopsis J20 Is a J-Protein. Supplemental Figure 2. BiFC Experiments Using Leek Epidermal Cells. Supplemental Figure 3. Validation of the CLM Resistance Assay as a Good Estimate of DXS Activity Levels. Supplemental Figure 4. Sensitivity of Mutant and Transgenic Lines to Specific DXS and DXR Inhibitors. Supplemental Figure 5. Arabidopsis Mutants Defective in J20-Related J-Proteins Do Not Show a CLM Sensitivity Phenotype. Supplemental Table 1. Summary of Results from the Yeast Two-Hybrid Screen. Supplemental Table 2. Quantification of DXS Protein Levels in 35S:J20-GFP Lines. Supplemental Table 3. Constructs and Cloning Details. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used in This Work. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Alignment Used to Generate the Phylogenetic Tree Shown in Supplemental Figure 5A.
