!~ABS~! Members of the Arabidopsis thaliana PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER1 (PHT1) family are key players in acquisition of Pi from the rhizosphere, and their regulation is indispensable for the maintenance of cellular Pi homeostasis. Here, we reveal posttranslational regulation of Pi transport through modulation of degradation of PHT1 proteins by the RING-type ubiquitin E3 ligase, NITROGEN LIMITATION ADAPTATION (NLA). Loss of function of NLA caused high Pi accumulation resulting from increases in the levels of several PHT1s at the protein rather than the transcript level. Evidence of decreased endocytosis and ubiquitination of PHT1s in nla mutants and interaction between NLA and PHT1s in the plasma membranes suggests that NLA directs the ubiquitination of plasma membrane–localized PHT1s, which triggers clathrin-dependent endocytosis followed by endosomal sorting to vacuoles. Furthermore, different subcellular localization of NLA and PHOSPHATE2 (PHO2; a ubiquitin E2 conjugase) and the synergistic effect of the accumulation of PHT1s and Pi in nla pho2 mutants suggest that they function independently but cooperatively to regulate PHT1 protein amounts. Intriguingly, NLA and PHO2 are the targets of two Pi starvation-induced microRNAs, miR827 and miR399, respectively. Therefore, our findings uncover modulation of Pi transport activity in response to Pi availability through the integration of a microRNA-mediated posttranscriptional pathway and a ubiquitin-mediated posttranslational regulatory pathway.
!~RES~! To reveal the function of NLA, we analyzed three allelic mutants, namely, nla-1, a RING-domain deletion mutant in the Columbia-0 background (CITATION); bah1-D, a knockdown mutant in the Columbia-7 background (CITATION) referred to hereafter as nla-2; and FLAG_352A03, a knockout mutant in the Wassilewskija background designated herein as nla-3 (Figure 1A). Under Pi-sufficient conditions, these three mutants contained around twofold higher content of Pi than the wild-type plants in both shoots and roots (Figure 1B); however, there were no visible morphological changes except for the slightly small size of nla-2 (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Consistent with their high Pi accumulation, the nla mutants showed increased Pi acquisition activity relative to the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). We therefore inspected the expression of several PHT1s at both the transcript and protein levels by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunoblot analyses. While there were no increases in the mRNA levels of PHT1;1, PHT1;2, PHT1;3, and PHT1;4 (Figure 1C), their protein levels in all of the allelic mutants were increased notably compared with the wild type (Figure 1D; see Supplemental Figure 1C online). Under Pi deprivation conditions, PHT1 proteins were significantly upregulated, and no differences were observed between the wild type and nla mutants (see Supplemental Figure 1C online), suggesting that suppression of NLA by Pi starvation–induced miR827 may relieve its negative regulation of PHT1s. We also examined the expression of PHF1, but no differences between the wild type and mutants were observed (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). These results suggest that NLA modulates cellular Pi content via regulation of the protein abundance of PHT1s but not PHF1. It is known that loss of PHF1 function not only blocks the exit of PHT1 proteins from the ER but also decreases their stability, which in turn reduces Pi uptake activity (CITATION; CITATION). Suppression of the nla phenotype by PHF1 mutation as reported previously (CITATION) is likely due to the reduction in PHT1 proteins. [[FIGURE]] Because the expression of NLA is negatively regulated under Pi-deficient conditions, we next examined the responses of the wild type and nla-2 mutants after recovering from Pi deprivation when the repression of NLA was relieved to determine the effect of loss of function of NLA. Four-day Pi starvation lowered the Pi content in the shoots of the wild type and nla-2 mutants to a comparable level (the wild type, 1.61 ± 0.05; nla-2, 1.61 ± 0.10 nmol Pi mg−1 fresh weight). In the shoots of the wild type, Pi quickly accumulated 1 d after Pi replenishment, was maintained at a high level for 3 d, and then gradually declined (Figure 2A). By contrast, nla-2 mutants kept accumulating Pi after resupply, resulting in severe Pi toxicity as seen in necrosis at the edges of old leaves (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). In the wild type, primary miR827 transcripts were downregulated rapidly 1 d after Pi resupply (see Supplemental Figure 2C online), which was in line with the upregulation of the NLA proteins (Figure 2B). When the expression of PHT1;1, PHT1;2, PHT1;3, and PHT1;4 was examined, we found that their mRNAs were all reduced markedly 1 d after replenishment and maintained at a constant low level (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). The protein level of PHT1s in the wild type was also decreased 1 d after replenishment and decreased even further in the following days (Figure 2B). The mRNA and protein levels of PHT1s were not well correlated during Pi replenishment either in the wild type or nla-2 mutants, suggesting the existence of regulation in addition to the transcriptional regulation, likely protein degradation. Of note, nla-2 mutants showed much slower reduction in the protein levels of PHT1;1/2/3 (PHT1;1, PHT1;2, and PHT1;3) and PHT1;4 than the wild type (Figure 2B), despite there being no differences in their mRNA levels (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). These results indicate that NLA is necessary for maintenance of Pi homeostasis in response to fluctuations in external Pi supply and further support the role of NLA in regulating the protein levels of PHT1s. During Pi replenishment, the protein levels of PHT1s in the nla-2 mutants continued to gradually decrease, implying the involvement of an NLA-independent pathway (possibly mediated by PHO2; see below) or nonspecific proteolysis in the degradation of PHT1s. [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal GFP-fused NLA protein was shown to localize in nuclear speckles (CITATION), whereas the PHT1s function in the PM (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate how NLA regulates the protein abundance of PHT1s, we reexamined the subcellular localization of NLA using N- or C-terminal tagging fluorescent protein in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts and tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves. In agreement with the previous observation in onion epidermal cells (CITATION), NLA-GFP was detected only in the nuclei as a speckle-like structure in the protoplasts (see Supplemental Figure 3A online); however, NLA-CFP (for cyan fluorescent protein) was frequently observed in both nuclei and the PM in tobacco cells (Figure 3A). By contrast, both GFP-NLA and CFP-NLA were detected predominantly in the PM with occasional signals in nuclei regardless of which expression system was used (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Figure 3A online). The PM localization was confirmed by colocalization with FM4-64, a membrane-selective dye that binds to the outer leaflet of the PM (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). These results raise the possibility of dual localization of NLA in the PM and the nucleus or mistargeting of the fluorescent fusion proteins. To test which fusion protein is functional in vivo, a complementation test was performed by overexpressing GFP-NLA or NLA-GFP in nla-2 mutants. GFP-NLA was detected in the PM and the nucleus of root epidermal cells (see Supplemental Figure 3C online) and was able to reduce the shoot Pi content in nla-2 (see Supplemental Figure 3D online), suggesting that GFP-NLA is functional and PM-localized NLA is probably responsible for regulating Pi uptake. Unfortunately, we could not clearly define the function of NLA-GFP in vivo because its protein was undetectable. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis further showed the presence of native NLA proteins in microsomal fractions of the roots (see Supplemental Figure 3E online), specifically in the PM-enriched fraction, but not in the EM, soluble, or nuclear fractions (Figures 3C and 3D). Although we could not exclude the possibility of the presence of a small amount of NLA in the nucleus, our results clearly demonstrate that NLA is predominantly localized in the PM, hinting at a role for NLA in regulating PM-localized PHT1s. Interestingly, localization of NLA in the PM coincided with the increased level of PHT1s in the PM-enriched fraction of nla-2 mutants (Figure 3E). We next dissected NLA protein into the N-terminal SPX domain (NLASPX) and C-terminal RING domain (NLARING) and examined their localizations in tobacco leaves by tagging fluorescent proteins at both termini. Interestingly, NLASPX was able to target to the PM and the nuclei similar to NLA, while NLARING was detected in the cytoplasm (Figure 3B). This suggests that the SPX domain–containing portion is sufficient to determine the localization of NLA. It has been shown that PHT1;1 and PHT1;4 are expressed in the epidermis, cortex, and vasculature (CITATION). To illustrate the cell types and tissues in which NLA-mediated regulation occurs, we then examined the expression pattern of NLA by fusing its promoter containing 5′ untranslated region (comprising the miR827 target site) with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. Under high Pi conditions, GUS staining was clearly observed in the root tips and vascular tissues of young roots. Interestingly, in the maturation zone proximal to the hypocotyls, only the cortex and epidermis were stained but not the vascular tissues (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). These observations suggest that NLA-mediated regulation occurs in different root cell types. Under Pi-deficient conditions, NLA is posttranscriptionally downregulated by miR827 (CITATION), so the GUS gene was repressed (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). By contrast, the GUS activity driven by the MIR827 promoter was shown strongly in the Pi-starved roots. Similar to NLA expression pattern, the signal was restricted in the epidermis and cortex of the proximal part of the roots, but GUS staining was detected in all the cell types near the root tips (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). In shoots, the GUS activity driven by NLA or the miR827 promoter was broadly distributed, including in the vascular tissues and hydathodes (see Supplemental Figures 4C and 4D online), but the signals were weaker than those in roots, which is consistent with their transcript levels (CITATION). The expression pattern of NLA under Pi-sufficient conditions mostly overlapped with that of MIR827 under Pi-deficient conditions, suggesting that miR827-mediated NLA repression occurs in these tissues. Because of the putative ubiquitin ligase activity of NLA and the increase of PHT1 proteins in nla mutants, we hypothesized that NLA mediates the degradation of PHT1 proteins via posttranslational ubiquitination. We mutated the conserved Cys at residue 279 in the RING domain of NLA (NLAC279A) to disrupt the RING domain and coexpressed NLA or NLAC279A with PHT1s in tobacco leaves. Immunoblot analyses showed that expression of NLA, but not of NLAC279A, resulted in the degradation of PHT1;1 and PHT1;4 (Figures 4A and 4B), suggesting that the RING domain of NLA is required for the degradation of PHT1s. Next, we examined the abundance of ubiquitin-conjugated PHT1s in the wild type and nla-2 mutants. Native PHT1;1/2/3 and PHT1;4 were immunoprecipitated using anti-PHT1;1/2/3 and anti-PHT1;4 antibodies, respectively, and ubiquitination was detected by immunoblotting using antiubiquitin antibody. We found that the ubiquitinated PHT1s in nla-2 mutants were notably decreased compared with the wild type, resulting in the increase of these PHT1s in the mutants (Figures 5A and 5B). These results indicate that NLA is involved in ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation of these Pi transporters. Although the ubiquitin ligase activity of NLA was not validated by in vitro ubiquitination assays (CITATION), the previous report of NLA interacting with UBC8, a ubiquitin E2 conjugase (CITATION), and our results suggest that NLA functions in vivo as a ubiquitin E3 ligase that is responsible for the ubiquitination of PHT1;1/2/3 and PHT1;4. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate whether PHT1;1 and PHT1;4 are the direct substrates of NLA, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) was performed to examine the physical interaction between NLA and PHT1s in tobacco leaves. Reconstituted yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) signals from coexpression of NLAC279A and PHT1;4 were observed in the PM and colocalized with FM4-64 (see Supplemental Figures 5A and 5B online), but the interaction between NLA and PHT1;1 was inconclusive due to the strong background in the negative control. However, when we employed the N-terminal SPX domain region (NLASPX), reconstituted YFP signals in the PM were observed not only for NLASPX and PHT1;4, but also for NLASPX and PHT1;1 (Figure 5C), suggesting that NLA regulates PHT1;1 and PHT1;4 through interaction at its SPX domain in the PM. Next, we chose another two PM-localized nutrient transporters, a nitrate transporter (CHLORATE RESISTANT1 [CHL1]) and an iron transporter (IRON REGULATED TRANPSORTER1 [IRT1]) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) to test whether they can interact with NLASPX. As expected, no YFP signals were detected, supporting the specificity of the interaction between NLASPX and PHT1s (Figure 5D). In addition, we also examined the interaction using a split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid system. Consistent with the results of BiFC, NLASPX could interact with PHT1;4 in yeast (Figure 5E), but we could not determine the interaction between NLASPX and PHT1;1 because of lack of interaction in positive control for unknown reasons. Together, our results support the notion that NLA directs the ubiquitination of PHT1 proteins for degradation. To identify the residues on PHT1;1 responsible for NLA-mediated degradation, we used a website to predict the potential ubiquitination sites (http://www.ubpred.org/). Three Lys residues located in the central loop (Lys-276 and Lys-279) and at the end (Lys-524) of PHT1;1 showed the highest scores. We therefore mutated all these Lys residues into Ala. When NLA was coexpressed with PHT1;1K524A, PHT1;1K276/279A, or PHT1;1K276/279/524A, all of the mutated forms of PHT1;1 were able to be degraded by NLA in tobacco leaves (see Supplemental Figure 6A online), suggesting that PHT1;1 might have other ubiquitination sites. In order to determine which region of PHT1;1 is sensitive to NLA-dependant degradation, we further dissected PHT1;1 into N-terminal (PHT1;1N1-279) and C-terminal (PHT1;1C234-524) portions, which contain the central loop and six transmembrane helixes at the N terminus and C terminus, respectively. When PHT1;1N1-279 or PHT1;1C234-524 was coexpressed with NLA in tobacco leaves, although the PHT1;1C234-524 signal was weak and inconclusive, PHT1;1N1-279 was sufficient for degradation by NLA (see Supplemental Figure 6B online). This suggests that N-terminal portion of PHT1;1 is able to be recognized by NLA as the substrate and targeted for ubiquitination and degradation pathway. When PHT1;1-YFP or PHT1;4-YFP was coexpressed with CFP-NLA in tobacco leaves, we noticed that signals of PHT1;1 or PHT1;4 were not only found in the PM but also as a punctate structure adjacent to the PM, which was absent when PHT1;1 or PHT1;4 was coexpressed with CFP-NLAC279A (Figure 6A). To determine whether the punctate structure was the endocytosed PHT1s, Tyrphostin A23 (Tyr A23), an inhibitor of clathrin-dependent endocytosis (CITATION; CITATION), or its ineffective analog, Tyrphostin A51 (Tyr A51), was applied. Tyr A23 but not Tyr A51 treatment inhibited the formation of the punctate structure, indicating that NLA promoted the endocytosis of PHT1;1 from the PM through a clathrin-dependent pathway (Figure 6B). We also introduced PHT1;1-YFP into the wild type and nla-2 mutants to examine the protein trafficking. The DMSO solvent had no effect on the PM localization of PHT1;1-YFP, whereas E-64d, which inhibits the fusion of the endosomes with the vacuole (CITATION), caused aggregation of PHT1;1-YFP in the wild type. The aggregated PHT1;1-YFP signals were colocalized with FM4-64 signals, representing the internalized PM (Figure 6C). However, aggregation signals of PHT1;1-YFP were rarely observed in nla-2 mutants (Figure 6D), very likely because of the reduction of endocytosis in PM-localized PHT1;1. This phenomenon could be consistently observed in several independent lines (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). These results indicate that NLA-mediated ubiquitination triggers clathrin-dependent endocytosis of PHT1s, which are subsequently sorted into the vacuolar degradation pathway through endosomes. [[FIGURE]] In the rice (Oryza sativa) genome, there are two NLA homologs, Os-NLA1 and Os-NLA2, which share 61 and 42% amino acid identity with At-NLA, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). We then investigated whether Os-NLA possesses a similar function to At-NLA in the regulation of PHT1s. We chose Os-NLA1 for further characterization because it has higher similarity to At-NLA. First, we examined the subcellular localization of Os-NLA1 in tobacco leaves. Both CFP-OsNLA1 and OsNLA1-CFP were observed in the PM and nuclei, similar to At-NLA (see Supplemental Figures 8A and 8B online). Next, we coexpressed Os-NLA1 with At-PHT1;1 or At-PHT1;4 in tobacco leaves and found that both At-PHT1;1 and At-PHT1;4 were degraded by Os-NLA1 (Figures 4A and 4B), suggesting that Os-NLA1 plays a similar role as At-NLA in regulating the protein abundance of Pi transporters. Because PHO2, a ubiquitin E2 conjugase, is also involved in regulating PHT1s through protein ubiquitination machinery (CITATION), it is possible that NLA and PHO2 may function together in regulating PHT1s. We therefore examined their genetic interaction by investigating nla pho2 double mutants. Nineteen-day-old nla pho2 double mutants were smaller in size and showed more severe Pi toxicity symptoms, such as necrosis at leaf edges than the single mutants (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). Consistent with the phenotype, the Pi content of the double mutants was twofold to threefold higher than that of the single mutants (Figure 7A; see Supplemental Figure 9B online), and PHT1;1/2/3 proteins were also increased in the roots (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 9C online). Intriguingly, the increased level of PHT1;4 was observed only in nla single and double mutants, but not in the wild type and pho2 mutants. By contrast, at the younger stage, PHT1;4 was only increased in pho2 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 9D online), suggesting that PHO2 and NLA are responsible for regulating the level of PHT1;4 at different growth stages. The level of PHF1 in nla pho2 double mutants was similar to that in pho2 mutants, suggesting that PHF1 is not regulated by NLA (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 9C online). In addition, PHO2 is an ER/Golgi-localized protein (CITATION), whereas NLA is predominantly localized in the PM (Figure 3C). The synergistic effects displayed in the double mutants and the different subcellular localizations suggest that NLA and PHO2 function independently in the regulation of the protein levels of PHT1s. [[FIGURE]] It is of interest to note that excess Pi accumulated in nla mutants that were more than 14 days old, whereas Pi overaccumulated in pho2 seedlings of much younger ages (e.g., 5 d old) (Figure 7D; see Supplemental Figure 9G online), implying a temporal difference between the PHO2- and NLA-mediated regulatory pathways. In other words, PHO2-mediated regulation may start to function at an earlier growth stage, while NLA-mediated regulation may operate at a later stage. At later growth stages, PHO2 and NLA cooperate to regulate Pi transport. In fact, we noticed that PHO2 was upregulated in nla mutants grown to an older stage (Figure 7C), likely to compensate for the loss of NLA. By contrast, we did not observe any change in NLA expression in pho2 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 9E online), which could be because of the induction of miR827 in pho2 mutants through an unknown mechanism (see Supplemental Figure 9F online) counteracting the effect of the upregulation of NLA. Taken together, we conclude that the regulation of the degradation of PHT1s by PHO2 and NLA is differentiated both temporally and spatially.
!~MM~! Seeds of the Arabidopsis thaliana wild type (Columbia-0 and Wassilewskija) and pho2 mutant (CITATION) were obtained from the ABRC. Seeds of nla-1 and nla-1 pho2 were kindly provided by Steven J. Rothstein (University of Guelph, Canada) (CITATION). Columbia-7 and bah1-D/nla-2 seeds were kindly provided by Koh Iba (Kyushu University, Japan) (CITATION). nla-3 (FLAG_352A03) seeds were obtained from Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique–Versailles Genomic Resource Center, France. The nla-2 pho2 double mutant was generated by crossing nla-2 with the pho2 mutant. Seeds were germinated in half-strength Hoagland agar media containing 250 μM KH2PO4. For hydroponic culture, 10-d-old seedlings were transferred to half-strength Hoagland solution containing 250 μM KH2PO4 (+Pi). For Pi recovery, 14-d-old hydroponically cultured seedlings were transferred to Pi-free nutrient solution (−Pi) for 4 d and changed to full nutrient solution (+Pi) for 6 d. For high Pi treatment, 5-d-old seedlings were transferred to media containing 5 mM KH2PO4 (CITATION) for 7 d. Genes of interest were amplified using the primer pairs listed in Supplemental Table 1 online, cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO (Invitrogen) and then recombined into the desired Gateway destination vectors using the Gateway® LR Clonase™ II Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen). Except for Os-NLA1, all cloned genes were derived from Arabidopsis. The clone containing point mutated NLA or PHT1;1 was amplified using phosphorylated primers with the desired change. PHT1;1-YFP and PHT1;4-YFP were constructed by three-piece PCR to insert YFP at 10 amino acids upstream of the stop codon in PHT1s (CITATION). Detailed information on constructs is provided in Supplemental Table 2 online. The stable transgenic lines were generated using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens dipping procedure (CITATION). Agrobacterium strain GV3101 was used for transformation. Transformation was conducted as described previously (CITATION). The Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration method was adopted from CITATION with minor modification as described previously (CITATION). For immunoblot analysis, samples were collected 3 d after infiltration for total or microsomal protein isolation and immunoblot analysis. To observe the fluorescence in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves, plants were grown for 3 to 4 d before observation. To stain the PM of epidermal cells, leaves were stained by 5 μM FM4-64 for 15 min before observation. For chemical treatment, the leaves that transiently expressed genes of interest for 3 d were infiltrated again with Tyr A23 or Tyr A51. After 24 h, leaves were collected for observation. Tyr A23 and Tyr A51 stocks (both 33 mM) were prepared in DMSO and diluted with water into 33 μM for use. E-64d stock (50 mM) was prepared in DMSO. Twelve-day-old seedlings were immersed in the half-strength Hoagland solution containing 250 μM KH2PO4, 5 μM FM4-64, and 50 μM E-64d or 0.1% DMSO for 3 h. Fluorescent signals were observed under a Zeiss LSM 510 META NLO DuoScan and a Zeiss LSM 780 plus ELYRA S.1 with objective Plan-Apochromat ×20/0.8 mm and LD C-Apochomat ×40/1.1 W. Excitation/emission wavelengths were 458 nm/465 to 510 nm for CFP, 488 nm/495 to 520 nm for GFP, 514 nm/520 to 550 nm for YFP, and 561 nm/575 to 630 nm for FM4-64. Nineteen-day-old seedlings were used for Pi uptake assays. Pi contents and [33P]Pi uptake activity were determined as described previously (CITATION). GUS activity was detected by the modified method as described (CITATION). The staining time for examining the expression pattern of NLA and MIR827 was 1 and 0.5 hour, respectively. Total proteins in tobacco leaves were isolated using SDS extraction buffer. The detailed methods of protein isolation and immunoblotting have been described previously (CITATION). Sixty micrograms of total proteins of each sample were loaded for immunoblot analysis. GFP protein that was used as the control of infiltration event was detected by rabbit polyclonal GFP antibody (Abcam). Membrane proteins were isolated from roots of hydroponically cultured 19-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings or high-Pi-treated 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings or infiltrated tobacco leaves. Tissues were ground in homogenization buffer containing 330 mM Suc, 50 mM Tris, pH7.5, 10 mM KCl, and 5 mM EDTA, with freshly added DTT, phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The homogenate was centrifuged at 4°C at 2000g for 15 min. The supernatant was saved and centrifuged at 4°C at 400,000g for 30 min. The supernatant was precipitated by acetone as the soluble protein fraction. The pellet was resuspended in the homogenization buffer without DTT as the total microsomal protein fraction for immunoblot or immunoprecipitation analyses. Fifteen to thirty micrograms of total microsomal protein and soluble protein fraction of each sample was loaded for immunoblot analysis. PM and EM protein-enriched fractions were isolated from total microsomal proteins by two-phase partitioning as described previously (CITATION). For each sample, 30 μg of soluble protein fraction, 25 μg of total microsomal protein fraction, and 8 μg of PM and EM were loaded to detect NLA; 10 μg of total microsomal protein fraction and EM, and 5 μg of PM was loaded to detect PHT1;1/2/3 and PHT1;4. The immunoprecipitation and detection of ubiquitination were performed as described previously (CITATION). The method of nuclear protein isolation was modified from a previous protocol (CITATION). Roots of 19-d-old Arabidopsis were ground using a homogenizer with homogenization buffer containing 300 mM Suc, 50 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 25 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, and freshly added protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth and centrifuged at 4°C at 800g for 15 min. The pellet was saved as the crude nuclear fraction, and the supernatant was centrifuged at 4°C at 100,000g for 2 h to separate the microsomal protein fraction (pellet) from soluble fraction (supernatant). The pellets of nuclear and microsomal fractions were resuspended in homogenization buffer and sonicated. Proteins were precipitated by 100% trichloroacetic acid and resuspended in elution buffer (containing 60 mM Tris-HCl (pH8.5), 2% SDS, 2.5% glycerol, 0.13 mM EDTA, and protease inhibitor cocktail). Twenty micrograms of soluble protein, total microsomal protein, and nuclear fractions were loaded for immunoblot analysis. The polyclonal antibodies for PHT1;1/2/3 (amino acid residues 266 to 285) and PHT1;4 (amino acid residues 265 to283) were raised against the central loop region (CITATION; CITATION). Because of high amino acid identity, the antibody against PHT1;1/2/3 recognizes all three proteins, PHT1;1, PHT1;2, and PHT1;3. The polyclonal antibodies for PHF1 (amino acid residues 382 to 398) and NLA (amino acid residues 300 to 318) were raised against the peptides at the C termini. The working concentrations of affinity-purified antibodies were 20 to 500 ng mL−1. Mouse monoclonal ubiquitin (P4D1) antibodies were purchased from Santa Cruz (1:5000). The polyclonal rabbit Histone 3 antibody was purchased from Abcam (1:1000). The polyclonal rabbit ARF1, H+-ATPase, PIP1, and cFBP1 antibodies were purchased from Agrisera (1:10000). Split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid assay was performed following the manufacturer’s instructions provided with the DUALmembrane Kit (Dualsystems Biotech). The coding regions of PHT1;4 and NLASPX were cloned in frame into the vectors pTMBV4 and pDL-Nx, respectively. Yeast strain DSY-1 cells were cotransformed with these two constructs and plated onto synthetic medium lacking Leu and Trp. The protein–protein interactions was assessed by the growth of yeast colonies on synthetic medium lacking Leu, Trp, and His and the chloroform overlay β-galactosidase plate assay as described (CITATION). Dolichyl-phosphate beta-glucosyltransferase, a yeast ER-resident protein, was used as the control to confirm the interaction. Total RNA was isolated from 19-d-old Arabidopsis roots using RNAzol (Molecular Research Center). cDNAs were synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA using Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) with oligo(dT) primer. qRT-PCR was performed using the Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix kit (Applied Biosystems) on a 7300 Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems) following the manufacturer’s instructions. UBQ10 was used as the internal control. Total RNA for small RNA gel blots was isolated from 19-d-old Arabidopsis roots by TRIzol (Invitrogen). Ten micrograms total RNA was loaded. The methods used for the small RNA gel blots have been described previously (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under the following accession numbers: NLA, At1g02860; PHO2, At2g33770; PHT1;1, At5g43350; PHT1;2, At5g43370; PHT1;3, At5g43360; PHT1;4, At2g38940; and PHF1, At3g52190. The accession number of Os-NLA1 is Os07g0673200. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Mutation in NLA Causes Increased Pi Uptake Activity and PHT1 Protein Amounts. Supplemental Figure 2. The Responses of the Wild Type and nla-2 Mutants after Recovery from Pi Deprivation. Supplemental Figure 3. Subcellular Localization of NLA. Supplemental Figure 4. Expression Pattern of NLA and MIR827. Supplemental Figure 5. Analysis of Protein–Protein Interaction between NLA and PHT1;4. Supplemental Figure 6. The N-Terminal Portion of PHT1;1 Is Sufficient for NLA-Mediated Degradation. Supplemental Figure 7. NLA-Mediated Ubiquitination Triggers PHT1;1 Sorting into the Vacuole through the Endosomal Trafficking Pathway. Supplemental Figure 8. Subcellular Localization of Os-NLA1. Supplemental Figure 9. The Difference between NLA- and PHO2-Dependent Regulation of PHT1s. Supplemental Table 1. Sequences of Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Gene Constructs Used in This Study.
