!~ABS~! Chloroplast development requires accurate spatio-temporal expression of plastid genes. The regulation of plastid genes mediated by plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) is rather complex, and its related mechanism remains largely unclear. Here, we report the identification of a novel protein that is essential for plant development, PEP-Related Development Arrested 1 (PRDA1). Knock-out of PRDA1 in Arabidopsis (prda1 mutant) caused a seedling-lethal, albino phenotype and arrested the development of leaf chloroplasts. Localization analysis showed that PRDA1 was specifically targeted to chloroplasts and co-localized with chloroplast nucleoids, revealing that PRDA1 is a chloroplast nucleoid-associated protein. Gene expression analyses revealed that the PEP-dependent plastid transcript levels were greatly reduced in prda1. PRDA1 was co-expressed with most of the PEP-associated proteins. Protein interaction assays showed that PRDA1 clearly interacts with MRL7 and FSD2, both of which have been verified as essential for PEP-related chloroplast development. Reactive oxygen species scavenging through dimethylthiourea markedly alleviated the cotyledon-albino phenotypes of PRDA1 and MRL7 RNA interference seedlings. These results demonstrate that PRDA1 is required for early chloroplast development and involved in the regulation of plastid gene expression.
!~RES~! As a supplementation to the previous high-throughput RNAi plant library used in our study of MRL7 (CITATION), a number of target-off function-unknown genes, the products of which have been predicted to be targeted to chloroplasts and the expression profiles of which have been associated with the seedling development stage, were sorted, and their respective Arabidopsis RNAi lines were separately constructed (J. Qiao et al. unpublished results). Fortunately, RNAi silencing of one such target gene in Arabidopsis resulted in the typical delayed-greening seedling phenotypes, similar to the results obtained with MRL7 (CITATION). Approximately four-fifths of the RNAi transformants exhibited consistent delayed-greening phenotypes, i.e. two cotyledons were nearly albino after seed germination and gradually greened at 3 weeks old (Fig. 1A). The Arabidopsis locus ID of the corresponding gene is AT5G48470, and we named this gene PEP-Related Development Arrested 1 (PRDA1). Reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis confirmed the severe interference with PRDA1 transcription in these RNAi plants (Fig. 1B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] PRDA1 was annotated in public databases (e.g. TAIR) as encoding an unknown chloroplast protein. This gene contains nine exons and eight introns, and is located on chromosome 5. The open reading frame (ORF) of PRDA1 encodes a polypeptide of 397 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of approximately 44 kDa. No conserved functional domains were predicted in the PRDA1 sequence through any available bioinformatics tools. Blast searching the Arabidopsis genome revealed only one copy of the PRDA1 gene in Arabidopsis, and no paralogs were identified. Sequence alignment analysis revealed that PRDA1 orthologs existed in nearly all known photosynthetic organisms, from lower green algae to various higher plants. PRDA1 and its homologs share high similarity in a region of approximately 300 amino acids in the C-terminus (Supplementary Fig. S1). To investigate the evolutionary relationship among PRDA1 proteins, a phylogenetic tree was constructed. As shown in Fig. 2, the PRDA1 proteins are well differentiated and exhibit a clear evolutionary linkage from lower green algae to angiosperms. PRDA1 proteins from algae and mosses form a subclade. The proteins from angiosperms form a large subclade, in which those from monocots and dicots are clearly divided. These data indicated that PRDA1 is likely to be a conserved protein in photoautotrophic organisms.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To acquire further functional information on PRDA1, a T-DNA insertion line (salk-069893c) with an obvious albino phenotype was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) and designated as prda1. Genetic analysis showed that PRDA1 controlled this mutant phenotype in a recessive manner and co-segregated with the kanamycin resistance marker. Sequencing of the T-DNA border junction showed that the T-DNA was inserted into the first intron of PRDA1. A PCR genotyping analysis of the plants developed from prda1 heterozygous plant seeds showed that the segregation rate of green vs. albino plants was nearly 3 : 1, indicating that prda1 was a single T-DNA insertion mutant (Fig. 3A, C). An RT–PCR analysis indicated that the transcription of PRDA1 was completely lost in prda1 (Fig. 3D). No PRDA1 transcripts were found in prda1 using quantitative real-time PCR (QPCR).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The homozygous prda1 plants exhibited albino cotyledons without true primary leaves upon germination and survived no longer than 2 weeks when grown in soil or on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium under standard conditions in a growth chamber, indicating that the prda1 plants were unable to grow photoautotrophically. Nevertheless, on MS medium supplemented with sucrose as a carbon source, the prda1 plants continuously grew and produced pale-yellow true leaves, but whole-plant development was greatly retarded compared with wild-type plants (Fig, 3B), similar to the phenotypes of PAP mutant plants (CITATION). The results of this phenotypic characterization demonstrated that PRDA1 plays an essential role in plant autotrophic growth. Thus, the mutant prda1 was subjected to further detailed analysis to elucidate the molecular function of PRDA1. The full-length PRDA1 ORF, driven by the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (35S) promoter, was introduced into prda1 heterozygous plants to perform complementation experiments. The successfully complemented prda1 plants with a homozygous mutant background were identified through PCR genotyping, and the expression of the transgenic PRDA1 ORF was verified through RT–PCR analysis (Supplementary Fig. S2). The complemented prda1 plants grew normally and exhibited a wild-type-like phenotype (Fig. 3B), indicating that solely the disruption of PRDA1 contributed to the seedling-lethal phenotype of prda1. In addition, PRDA1 overexpression in a Col-0 background was also generated, but these plants were visually indistinguishable from wild-type plants, suggesting that the overexpression of PRDA1 in Arabidopsis did not affect plant growth. To obtain more information associated with the molecular function of PRDA1, we investigated the tissue-specific expression of PRDA1 in Arabidopsis. The transcript levels of PRDA1 were evaluated in almost all tissues using both RT–PCR and QPCR analyses. The results showed that PRDA1 transcripts were highly expressed in young leaves, shoots and flowers, but the expression was nearly absent in the roots and minimally detected in stems and siliques (Fig. 4A, B). The PRDA1 expression profile is consistent with the data from Genevestigator (CITATION). These results indicated that PRDA1 expression corresponds well to the plant developmental stage and potentially corresponds to the stage of plastid differentiation and leaf chloroplast development.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Chloroplast differentiation and development are markedly induced and regulated by light. To determine the influence of light on PRDA1 expression, we examined the accumulation of PRDA1 transcripts during the light-induced greening of Arabidopsis etiolated seedlings. A semi-quantitative RT–PCR analysis of corresponding samples showed that PRDA1 transcription maintained a low level of expression in etiolated seedlings, which gradually increased after light exposure, reaching a maximal stable level after approximately 12 h (Fig. 4C), suggesting that PRDA1 expression is required for light-induced chloroplast development. Both the phenotypic characterization of PRDA1 mutants and the expression profile of PRDA1 suggested that PRDA1 might function in chloroplast development. To test this supposition, the chloroplast morphological structure in prda1 leaves was examined through transmission electron microscopy. As shown in Fig. 5, the leaf chloroplasts of prda1 plants grown on sucrose-supplemented MS medium under normal conditions were severely shrunken, with abnormal shapes compared with the wild-type controls, and the thylakoid membrane structures were absent, indicative of deficient development and differentiation. Moreover, the shuttle-shaped starch granules in wild-type chloroplasts disappeared in prda1 chloroplasts, suggesting that photosynthetic activity was impaired in prda1 plants. No obvious changes in other organelles and the nucleus were observed in prda1 leaves. These observations suggested that PRDA1 has essential function associated with early chloroplast development.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] PRDA1 is annotated in various public databases as encoding a chloroplast-localized protein and is predicted in ChloroP to possess an obvious chloroplast transit peptide (CITATION). To verify these hypotheses, a chimeric gene expressing PRDA1 and the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion protein under the 35S promoter (35S:PRDA1–YFP) was constructed. The construct was introduced into Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, and the fluorescence was examined through confocal laser-scanning microscopy. Free YFP (35S:YFP) was used as a control. As shown in Fig. 6A, the yellow fluorescence of free YFP was distributed in regions close to the cell membrane and the nucleus. In contrast, the yellow fluorescence of the PRDA1–YFP fusion protein overlapped well with the red Chl autofluorescence, indicating that PRDA1 is specifically targeted to chloroplasts.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The PRDA1–YFP yellow fluorescence exhibited a clear punctate distribution pattern, similar to MRL7, FLN1, FLN2 and FSD3 (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), all of which have been previously identified as chloroplast nucleoid-localized proteins, suggesting that PRDA1 is also a chloroplast nucleoid-localized protein. To confirm these results, two pairs of co-localization experiments (PRDA1/PEND and PRDA1/MRL7) were performed in which PEND (CITATION) and MRL7 were used as two nucleoid-localized control proteins. The results showed that the fluorescent signals from both PRDA1–YFP/PEND–enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and PRDA1–YFP/MRL7–CFP merged well with nucleoids in leaf chloroplasts (Fig. 6B), indicating that PRDA1 is finely localized to chloroplast nucleoids. Initially, we used web-based analyses to predict the molecular function of PRDA1. The co-expression data from ATTED-II (CITATION) showed that PRDA1 is co-expressed with genes related to chloroplast development, of which PRIN2, TRXz, FLN1, FLN2 and FSD2 have been identified as essential for the regulation of PEP-dependent plastid gene expression (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. S3, Supplementary Data). These findings implied that PRDA1 is potentially involved in the regulation of plastid gene expression. To examine this hypothesis further, the transcript levels of plastid genes were investigated in PRDA1 knock-out mutants. Eight genes (psaA, psbA, psbD, psbH, rbcL, petB, ndhA and rps14) were chosen as PEP-dependent genes (Class I), six genes (accD, rpoB, rpoA, rpoC1, rpoC2 and ycf2) were chosen as NEP-dependent genes (Class III) and six genes (rrn23, atpI, rps16, ndhB, clpP and ycf1) were selected to represent both PEP- and NEP-dependent genes (Class II). In addition, the transcript levels of certain nuclear-encoded genes encoding chloroplast proteins were also examined. The seedling-lethal albino and chloroplast development-arrested mutant, salk_026379 (CITATION), was also used as a control. The salk_026379 mutant is a single T-DNA insertion mutant of magnesium chelatase ChlD (CITATION), the transcripts of which were absent in salk_026379. This mutant could be completely complemented through the ectopic expression of the ChlD ORF (J. Qiao et al. unpublished results). As shown in Fig. 7, the analysis of plastid gene expression revealed that the transcript levels of all eight PEP-dependent genes were significantly decreased in prda1, while the transcript levels of all six NEP-dependent genes were markedly increased. For the representative Class II genes, only the transcript level of rrn23 was decreased, while the transcript levels of the other five genes were obviously increased. However, the transcript accumulation of all investigated plastid genes in salk-026379 maintained nearly the same levels as observed in wild-type plants. The transcript accumulation of the genes encoding photosynthesis-related proteins (psaG, psaL, psbO, psbR and LHCA1) was not affected in both PRDA1 and ChlD mutants (Fig. 7). The transcript accumulation of plastid genes in prda1 showed high similarity to that in previously characterized PEP-deficient mutants, such as dg1, sig6, ptac2, patc6, ptac12, ptac14, trxz and mrl7 plants (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). These results indicated that plastid gene expression was severely disturbed in Arabidopsis through PRDA1 knock-out, and PRDA1 is essentially required for the regulation of PEP-dependent plastid gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, as shown above, PRDA1 was co-expressed with many nuclear-encoded PEP essential subunits, e.g. TRXz, FLN1, FLN2, FSD2, pTAC6, pTAC10 and pTAC12, based on the results of the public co-expression analysis (CITATION, CITATION). In addition, both PRIN2 (CITATION) and MRL7 (CITATION) were also found to be co-expressed with PRDA1. These results suggested that PRDA1 might functionally associate with the PEP polymeric complex through interactions with certain PEP components. To assess the putative association between PRDA1 and PEP, protein–protein interaction assays were performed between PRDA1 and the co-expressed PAPs using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) (CITATION). Here, the PAPs include all the nuclear-encoded PEP essential subunits (CITATION) and three other proteins, FLN2, PRIN2 and MRL7 (Supplementary Table S2). The ORFs of PRDA1 and the PAPs were fused to the C- and N-terminal moieties of YFP, respectively, to generate PRDA1–YFPC and PAP–YFPN constructs, respectively. Each control combination (YFPC/PAP–YFPN and YFPN/PRDA1–YFPC) produced no fluorescence. In contrast, strong punctate yellow fluorescent signals, merging well with the red Chl autofluorescence, were observed only from the combination of both FSD2–YFPN/PRDA1–YFPC and MRL7–YFPN/PRDA1–YFPC (Fig. 8A; Supplementary Fig. S4), indicative of the formation of PRDA1–FSD2 and PRDA1–MRL7 complexes in chloroplast nucleoids. As MRL7 has been identified as an interaction partner of PRDA1, the interaction between MRL7 and the above PAPs was also analyzed. We observed that MRL7, similarly to PRDA1, clearly interacts with FSD2 but not with other PAPs. These interactions were further validated through firefly luciferase complementation imaging (LCI) assays (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. 8B). The PEP essential subunit FSD2 is a chloroplast stroma-localized iron superoxide dismutase, which interacts with the chloroplast nucleoid-localized FSD3 and, together, these proteins act as ROS scavengers to protect chloroplast nucleoids (CITATION). The possible interaction of both PRDA1 and MRL7 with FSD2 suggested that PRDA1 and MRL7 probably act as components of the PEP complex and might be involved in the redox control of plastid gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The interactions identified above suggested that, similarly to FSD2 and FSD3 (CITATION), PRDA1 and MRL7 might function in scavenging ROS around chloroplast nucleoids. Thus, we examined whether the PRDA1-deficient plants are sensitive to oxidative stress. To this end, we investigated the greening progress of PRDA1-RNAi plants, prda1 mutants and the Col-0 control plants growing under high light (200 µmol m−2 s−1) and low light (15 µmol m−2 s−1) conditions. As shown in Fig. 9A, Col-0 plants exhibited nearly the same growth under low and high light conditions. In contrast, the cotyledons of PRDA1-RNAi plants growing under low light conditions typically greened earlier and grew more strongly than those under high light conditions. The prda1 mutants growing under low light conditions developed rapidly, with more yellowish leaves, while those under high light conditions grew slowly, with leaves exhibiting ivory phenotypes. These analyses indicated that both the PRDA1-RNAi and mutant plants showed light intensity-dependent responses consistent with the case of FSD2 mutants. Nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) staining and subsequent quantification analyses were performed on 2 d dark-acclimated PRDA1-deficient plants, and the results showed that the accumulation of in dark-acclimated PRDA1-deficient plants was significantly higher than that in wild-type control plants (Supplementary Fig. S5), but was similar to that in FSD2 mutants. These results imply that the PRDA1-deficient plants are sensitive to oxidative stress, similarly to FSD2 mutants (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Moreover, PRDA1- and MRL7-RNAi seedlings were subjected to ROS-related drug treatments. The delayed-greening phenotype of these plants is convenient to observe ROS-induced phenotypic changes. The well-known ROS scavenger, dimethylthiourea (DMTU) (CITATION, CITATION), was used here. A series of final concentrations (from 0.1 to 1 mM) of DMTU were added to the MS culture to examine plant tolerance against this antioxidant. Higher DMTU concentrations of up to 1 mM inhibited seed germination and delayed seedling growth, and 0.5 mM DMTU was chosen to treat both RNAi plants. As shown in Fig. 9B, the phenotypic investigation indicated that the cotyledons of either PRDA1- or MRL7-RNAi plants treated with 0.5 mM DMTU generally exhibited nearly green (pale) phenotypes, distinctly different from the yellowish phenotypes of the untreated RNAi plants. Chl determination assays showed that DMTU-treated PRDA1- and MRL7-RNAi seedlings contained higher Chl levels than untreated seedlings (Supplementary Fig. S6). These results suggested that ROS accumulation in PRDA1- and MRL7-RNAi plants impeded plant greening, indicating that PRDA1 is likely to be involved in the maintenance of the redox state around chloroplast nucleoids.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (wild-type Columbia-0 ecotype, the mutants and the transgenic plants) were grown in soil in a growth chamber under a 16 h light/8 h dark long-day condition, with a photon flux density of 120 µmol m−2 s−1 and 50–70% humidity at a constant temperature of 22°C. For plants grown on agar plates, the seeds were surface sterilized and sown on MS medium (Sigma) supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) agar. Subsequently, the seeds were vernalized at 4°C for 3 d and transferred to a growth chamber. For drug treatment, DMTU (Sigma) was directly added to the MS medium at different final concentrations, and the surface-sterilized seeds were planted and transferred to the growth chamber. For N. benthamiana plants, the seeds were germinated in soil and cultivated in a growth chamber at 25°C under a 14 h light/10 h dark photoperiod. A PRDA1 cDNA fragment was amplified using primers (PRDA1-RNAiF and PRDA1-RNAiR) and cloned into pRNAi-LIC (CITATION) to create the RNAi constructs expressing the artificial PRDA1-specific hairpin RNA under the control of the 35S promoter. The resulting PRDA1-silencing construct was transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). The transformants were screened on MS medium containing 50 mg l−1 kanamycin, and pictures were taken at the corresponding developmental stages. RT–PCR analysis was performed to evaluate the level of PRDA1 transcription in these plants. The PRDA1 T-DNA insertion line (salk_069893c) was identified through PCR genotyping analysis using primers PRDA1LP and PRDA1RP, and the T-DNA primer LBb1.3. RT–PCR was performed to examine the transcriptional level of PRDA1 in prda1. The full-length ORF of PRDA1 was cloned into the KpnI and PstI sites of pCAMBIA1300S (CITATION), and the resulting pCAMBIA1300S-PRDA1 constructs were introduced into prda1 heterozygous plants for complementation. The successful complementation was identified through PCR genotyping and RT–PCR as described above. The gene-specific primers are listed in Supplementary Table S2. The sequences of PRDA1 homologous proteins were obtained through a BLASTP alignment in the GenBank database (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). The multiple sequence alignments and phylogenetic tree construction were performed according to the methods described in a previous study (CITATION). For the transmission electron microscopy analysis of the chloroplast ultrastructures, the leaves from 3-week-old wild-type and prda1 plants were used as described in CITATION. The examination of the sublocalization of PRDA1 and control proteins was performed according to the methods described in a previous study (CITATION), with minor modifications. The binary vector pCAMBIA1300S was adopted instead of pUC19 as the skeleton sequence to create the pCAMBIA1300S-YFP vector. The DNA fragments encoding PRDA1–YFP and MRL7/PEND–CFP fusion proteins were cloned into pCAMBIA1300S (with KpnI and PstI sites) to generate the pCAMBIA1300S-PRDA1-YFP, pCAMBIA1300S-MRL7-CFP and pCAMBIA1300S-PEND-CFP constructs, respectively. These plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium GV3101 and used to transform N. benthamiana leaves transiently through infiltration. YFP and CFP fluorescence was visualized through confocal laser-scanning microscopy (LSM 510 META-ConfoCor 2 system). For the co-localization experiments, equal amounts of Agrobacterium cultures containing the corresponding plastids were mixed before infiltration. A distinct excitation wavelength was used for the analysis, and the fluorescence was sequentially scanned to avoid any cross-talk between fluorescence channels. Total RNA isolation and the first-strand cDNA synthesis were performed according to the methods described in a previous study (CITATION). Random Hexamer primers (Thermo Scientific) were used in the first-strand cDNA synthesis for the QPCR analysis of plastid gene expression, and oligo(dT)20 primers (Thermo Scientific) were used for other analyses. RT–PCR was performed to examine the PRDA1 transcript level in PRDA1-RNAi and prda1 plants. For QPCR, the cDNA was amplified using the SYBR Green Real-time PCR Master Mix (Toyobo) in an IQ5 real-time PCR detection instrument (Bio-Rad). The PCR optimization, design of the replicates and calculation of the relative gene expression ratios were performed as previously described in CITATION. The 18S rRNA gene (AT3G41768) was used as a reference. The primer sequences used here are listed in Supplementary Table S2. The full-length ORF of MRL7 was cloned into BamHI and KpnI sites of SPYNE173, and the full-length ORF of PRDA1 was cloned into BamHI and KpnI sites of SPYCE(M) (CITATION). The related PAPs were cloned into SPYNE173 at distinct sites in the corresponding primer sequences. The resulting PCAMBIA1300S-based BiFC constructs were introduced into N. benthamiana leaves through infiltration, as described in CITATION. The fluorescent signals were monitored and viewed as previously described for the localization experiments. For the LCI assay, fragments encoding PRDA1-CLuc, MRL7-NLuc and relative PAP-CLuc fusion proteins were cloned into pCAMBIA1300S and introduced into N. benthamiana leaves for transient expression. The imaging was performed as previously described in CITATION. Visualization and quantification assays were performed according to CITATION, with minor modifications. For the quantification of superoxide, formazan-precipitated blue plants were ground and solubilized in the corresponding volume (1 ml g−1 FW) of 2 M KOH–dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO; 1 : 1.16, v/v). After centrifuging to remove debris, the blue supernatant was measured spectrophotometrically at A680. Chl determination assays were performed according to CITATION. The investigation of plastid mRNA editing was performed according to CITATION. All known plastid mRNA editing sites were amplified from the associated cDNA and directly sequenced three times using specific primers.
