!~ABS~! Plant peroxisomes are highly dynamic organelles that mediate a suite of metabolic processes crucial to development. Peroxisomes in seeds/dark-grown seedlings and in photosynthetic tissues constitute two major subtypes of plant peroxisomes, which had been postulated to contain distinct primary biochemical properties. Multiple in-depth proteomic analyses had been performed on leaf peroxisomes, yet the major makeup of peroxisomes in seeds or dark-grown seedlings remained unclear. To compare the metabolic pathways of the two dominant plant peroxisomal subtypes and discover new peroxisomal proteins that function specifically during seed germination, we performed proteomic analysis of peroxisomes from etiolated Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings. The detection of 77 peroxisomal proteins allowed us to perform comparative analysis with the peroxisomal proteome of green leaves, which revealed a large overlap between these two primary peroxisomal variants. Subcellular targeting analysis by fluorescence microscopy validated around 10 new peroxisomal proteins in Arabidopsis. Mutant analysis suggested the role of the cysteine protease RESPONSE TO DROUGHT21A-LIKE1 in β-oxidation, seed germination, and growth. This work provides a much-needed road map of a major type of plant peroxisome and has established a basis for future investigations of peroxisomal proteolytic processes to understand their roles in development and in plant interaction with the environment.
!~RES~! To select a developmental stage that yields an adequate amount of tissue for organelle isolation but also coincides with the peak activity of peroxisomes, we monitored the activity of ICL, a marker enzyme for peroxisomes in seeds and early seedlings, in 3- to 6-d-old dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings. Consistent with a previous report (CITATION), the highest ICL activity was found to be present in 3-d-old seedlings (Supplemental Fig. S1), which were thus chosen for subsequent peroxisome isolation (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] Peroxisome purification was performed using a protocol adopted from the two-density gradient centrifugation method developed for leaf peroxisomes (CITATION) and with some modifications of the Percoll and Suc concentrations (see “Materials and Methods”). Pellet from the Percoll gradient, which contained peak activity of ICL (Fig. 1B, fraction 14), was washed and loaded onto the Suc gradient (Fig. 1C). A distinctive white band was observed in the 51% (w/v) Suc after the second gradient centrifugation, which is similar to what we normally see for leaf peroxisome isolation (CITATION, CITATION). To ascertain the composition of this band, immunoblot analysis was performed on proteins from crude extract, pellet fraction (P1) after Percoll gradient centrifugation (fraction 14 in Fig. 1B), and the fraction that contained the white band (PE) after Suc gradient centrifugation (fraction 9 in Fig. 1C; Supplemental Fig. S2) using organelle-specific antibodies (Fig. 1D). Antibodies against the chloroplast inner envelope protein TIC110 from pea (Pisum sativum) and the mitochondrial outer membrane-localized voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein (VDAC) from maize (Zea mays) detected minimal presence of these proteins (112 and 30 kD, respectively) in the PE fraction compared with crude exact and P1 (Fig. 1D). In contrast, antibodies against the Arabidopsis peroxisomal membrane protein PEX14 revealed a high enrichment of this protein in the PE fraction (Fig. 1D). Interestingly, α-PEX14, which detected a single band of approximately 75 kD in 8-d-old light-grown seedlings (CITATION), consistently detected two bands around approximately 75 kD in the etiolated samples (Fig. 1D). This pattern is similar to what was observed for the phosphorylated PEX14 proteins in the yeasts Pichia pastoris (CITATION; CITATION) and Hansenula polymorpha (CITATION). Although whether this doublet is associated with protein phosphorylation has not yet been confirmed, Arabidopsis PEX14 has been found to be phosphorylated by multiple phosphoproteomic studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As a second line of confirmation, we also measured ICL activity in various fractions of the two gradients after centrifugation (Fig. 1, B and C). As expected, the PE fraction possessed a peak activity of ICL. In contrast, fraction 3 of the Suc gradient, which showed another peak ICL activity, had much higher contamination from mitochondria, as evidenced by the detection of a strong VDAC band on the immunoblot (Fig. 1C). Fraction 3 was thus considered to contain broken peroxisomes. These results together suggested that our isolation procedure was successful in obtaining a fraction containing highly enriched peroxisomes that was fairly well separated from plastids and mitochondria. Consistent with previous reports on Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes (CITATION, CITATION), fraction 9 of the Suc gradient contained highly enriched peroxisomes and was collected from subsequent peroxisomal preparations. After purity assessment by immunoblots, peroxisomal samples were subjected to one-dimensional gel electrophoresis (1-DE) followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). To maximize the coverage of peroxisomal proteins, we employed three different approaches for protein separation. First, approximately 200 μg of total peroxisomal proteins was separated in a single lane on an SDS-PAGE gel, which was later cut into 10 slices. From two biological replicates (named T1 and T2), we identified 147 and 135 proteins, respectively (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2). In the second approach, we used a ZOOM IEF Fractionator (Invitrogen), a solution-phase isoelectric focusing apparatus that can divide total proteins into different subgroups based on each protein’s pI, in an attempt to identify low-abundance proteins that might have been masked by abundant proteins in the same gel lane in the first approach. Approximately 800 μg of peroxisomal proteins combined from three to four preparations was fractionated into five pH groups: 3.0 to 4.6 (Z1), 4.6 to 5.4 and 5.4 to 6.2 (later combined as Z2), 6.2 to 7.0 (Z3), and 7.0 to 10.0 (Z4). Proteins were then separated by 1-DE before each gel lane was cut into three to five slices depending on the amount of proteins in the lane. Totals of 85, 147, 72, and 108 proteins were identified from Z1 to Z4, respectively (Supplemental Tables S3–S6). In the third experiment, we enriched the peroxisomal membrane fraction by treating approximately 600 μg of total peroxisomal proteins combined from two to three preparations with 100 mm Na2CO3 and used the membrane-enriched sample for 1-DE, after which the gel lane was sliced into eight pieces. A total of 55 proteins was detected from this fraction (Supplemental Table S7). Out of the proteins identified from T1 and T2, 29% (T1) and 31% (T2) were known to be peroxisomal; thus, there were still significant numbers of proteins from other subcellular compartments, most notably plastids and the secretory system, which had been copurified with peroxisomes (Supplemental Fig. S3). To evaluate the enrichment of peroxisomes more precisely, the relative abundance of proteins assigned to various subcellular organelles was compared using quantitative value (QV). These values were derived from normalized spectral abundance factors, which normalize spectral counts according to the length of each protein and variation between sample runs (CITATION). Peroxisomal proteins accounted for 61% in T1 and 71% in T2 of the total proteins (Fig. 2, A and B). Notably, subcellular distribution as well as spectral count-based quantification of peroxisomal proteins in this study are comparable to the data reported for peroxisomes isolated from human liver tissue (CITATION). ZOOM fractionation before 1-DE allowed us to detect 26 additional peroxisomal proteins that were undetected in T1 and T2, including two new peroxisomal proteins later verified in this study (see below), and therefore significantly improved the coverage of the peroxisomal proteome (Fig. 2C). From the peroxisomal membrane, we identified 31 peroxisomal proteins, including integral membrane proteins such as the ATP-binding cassette transporter PXA1/CTS/PED3 and PEROXIN11a (PEX11a), that were undetected in the total peroxisomal samples using the first two approaches. [[FIGURE]] Altogether, 77 true peroxisomal proteins were identified from etiolated seedling peroxisomes (Table I), including the 11 proteins later validated in this study. These proteins covered all those identified from previous proteome studies of etiolated seedlings except for GLYOXYSOMAL PROTEIN KINASE1 plus an additional 53 proteins, representing more than 3-fold improvement over previous peroxisomal proteome studies of the same tissue (Fig. 2D). T1, T2, Z, and M stand for total proteomics 1 and 2, ZOOM, and membrane proteomics, respectively. MM, Predicted molecular mass (in kD). For T1 and T2, QV, percentage coverage (P), and number of unique peptides (N) are presented. Individual proteomics experimental details can be found in Supplemental Tables S1 to S7. The entire list of nonredundant proteins identified across seven experiments is presented in Supplemental Table S8. Numbers refer to previously conducted plant peroxisome proteomics experiments, where 1 to 8 refer to CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION, respectively. Asterisks indicate newly identified peroxisomal proteins, and Y indicates proteins validated to be peroxisomal by subcellular targeting in this study. x, Presence; −, absence. To identify new peroxisomal proteins and reveal previously unknown peroxisomal functions of etiolated seedlings, we selected candidate proteins for in vivo subcellular targeting analysis. First, for each protein on our list of nonredundant proteins identified from this study, we queried the Arabidopsis Subcellular Database SUBA3 (CITATION) to retrieve data regarding fluorescent protein localization, identification in prior proteomics studies, and predicted localization (Supplemental Table S8). Using this information, we excluded proteins that had experimentally proven nonperoxisomal fluorescent protein localization or had been repeatedly isolated from proteomics studies of other organelles. The remaining 36 candidates were tested for subcellular localization (Supplemental Table S4). Among them, ACAT2-GFP had been found to be cytosolic in a previous study but the C terminus was blocked in the fusion protein (CITATION), and BADH was shown to target to punctate structures without a peroxisomal marker as a reference (CITATION). Thus, these two proteins were retested in our study. To express proteins under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, the coding region of each candidate gene was fused to enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) in the Gateway-compatible destination vectors generated in our previous study (CITATION). Proteins containing C-terminal PTS1 or PTS1-like sequences were fused to the C terminus of YFP, proteins with N-terminal PTS2 or PTS2-like sequences were fused to the N terminus of YFP, and those without recognizable PTS were cloned in both orientations. Since minor PTS1s in plants are very diverse, here we classified proteins with C-terminal tripeptides that differed by one amino acid from the high-targeting-strength residues [SA][KR][LMI] (CITATION) as PTS1-like. We used tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves to transiently coexpress the YFP fusion proteins and the peroxisomal marker cyan fluorescent protein-PTS1 (SKL). Two days after inoculation of agrobacteria containing the constructs, confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed to examine the subcellular localization of the fusion proteins in leaf epidermal cells. Six proteins that contained PTS or PTS-like sequences and had also been identified from previous peroxisomal proteomics but not validated, ACYL-ACTIVATING ENZYME5 (AAE5), SHORT-CHAIN DEHYDROGENASE/REDUCTASE ISOFORM d (SDRd), COBALAMIN-INDEPENDENT METHIONINE SYNTHASE1 (ATMS1), GLYCOLATE OXIDASE ISOFORM3 (GOX3), a protein with unknown function (UP3), and BETAINE ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE (BADH), colocalized with the peroxisomal marker (Supplemental Fig. S4). Out of the proteins that contained PTS or PTS-like sequences and were only identified in this proteomic study, four of them, BENZOYLOXYGLUCOSINOLATE1/BENZOATE-COENZYME A LIGASE (BZO1; At1g65880, SRL>), an ortholog of petunia (Petunia hybrida) PhCNL (CITATION), SERINE CARBOXYPEPTIDASE-LIKE20 (SCPL20; At4g12910, SKI >), the papain-like Cys proteinase RD21A-LIKE PROTEASE1 (RDL1; At4g36880, SSV>), and a protein with unknown function (UP9; At1g29120, ASL>), were localized to peroxisomes when fused to the C terminus of YFP (Fig. 3, A–D). Interestingly, YFP-BZO1 appeared to encircle the peroxisome in the form of a narrow strip at the center of the organelle (Fig. 3D). In contrast, none of the proteins that contained no recognizable PTS or PTS-like sequences were found to be peroxisome localized (Supplemental Table S9). [[FIGURE]] Considering the presence of dual-localized peroxisomal proteins (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION, CITATION), we also reanalyzed a few proteins that had been categorized as contaminants in previous proteomic works. Comparing our list of identified proteins with listed contaminants from previously conducted peroxisome proteomics experiments, we short listed five proteins that had the potential to be dual localized. Among them, GLYCERALDEHYDE 3-PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE C2 (GAPC2) had a PTS1-like sequence (SKA>) and 2-CYS PEROXIREDOXIN had a putative PTS2 (RVxSL). Rab GTPase homolog E1b was included because of the reported association of Rab proteins with peroxisomes in both plant and mammalian systems (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Glutathione S-transferase ϕ8 was chosen, given that some of the glutathione S-transferase isoforms detected in plant peroxisome proteomic experiments had been confirmed to be peroxisomal by localization studies (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Lastly, ASPARTATE AMINOTRANSFERASE2 was selected on the basis of the reported dual localization of another aminotransferase (CITATION). Confocal imaging showed that out of the five proteins, only GAPC2 displayed colocalization with the peroxisome marker (Fig. 3E). Consistent with previous reports using GAPC2-YFP (CITATION; CITATION), we also observed strong cytosolic signals for YFP-GAPC2 (Fig. 3E). Taken together, 11 of the 36 proteins tested were confirmed to be peroxisomal (Supplemental Table S9) and thus constituted new additions to Arabidopsis peroxisomal proteins (Table I). Seven proteins have been detected in peroxisomes isolated from leaves, cell cultures, and etiolated seedlings, while RDL1, SCPL20, UP9, and BZO1 were newly discovered in etiolated seedling peroxisomes (Table I). Since BZO1’s function in benzoic acid (BA) biosynthesis has been shown (see “Discussion”), we searched for homologous sequences in other species for RDL1, SCPL20, and UP9, all of which contained well-established PTS1. Interestingly, we could only locate homologous sequences of these proteins in plant lineages, as opposed to GAPC2, whose orthologs in other eukaryotic systems had been characterized (see “Discussion”), suggesting that these three proteins may carry out plant-specific roles within peroxisomes. Amino acid sequence analyses revealed that all of these homologous sequences have conserved PTS1 or PTS1-like sequences, indicating that the corresponding proteins fulfill similar functions in plant peroxisomal metabolism (Fig. 4, A–C). GAPC2’s homologous sequences from fungal genomes carry experimentally validated PTS1, but their homologous sequences in plants exhibited great diversity in the C-terminal tripeptide, most of which are PTS1-like (Fig. 4D). [[FIGURE]] To analyze the metabolic events that occur in peroxisomes of etiolated seedlings, we compared the list of proteins identified in this study with those from two previously conducted major peroxisome proteomic investigations (CITATION; CITATION). Shared among the three peroxisomal proteomic experiments were 59 proteins that covered all the major biochemical processes associated with leaf peroxisomes, from β-oxidation and detoxification to photorespiration (Supplemental Table S10; Supplemental Fig. S5), suggesting that the core peroxisome proteome is largely conserved among peroxisomes from starkly different tissues. From this study, only eight proteins appeared to be unique to (or much more abundant in) peroxisomes of etiolated seedlings (Supplemental Table S11; Supplemental Fig. S5). Among them were ICL and MLS, enzymes that operate strictly in the glyoxylate cycle (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), small heat shock protein AtHsp15.7, ACETYL-COENZYME A THIOLASE1.3 (ACAT1.3), and the newly identified BZO1, RDL1, SCPL20, and UP9, suggesting that besides the glyoxylate cycle, there may also be a few biochemical processes more prevalent in seedling peroxisomes. Peroxisomes in etiolated seedlings contained similar levels of core β-oxidation enzymes (Fig. 2, A and B) to those in leaf peroxisomes (CITATION), indicating that fatty acid β-oxidation is a major peroxisomal function throughout development. However, some isoforms of β-oxidation enzymes found in leaf as well as cell culture peroxisomes were undetected in this study (Supplemental Table S11). For example, only four of the five functional ACX isoforms were detected. ACX5, the undetected isoform, is involved in wound-induced jasmonate biosynthesis (CITATION). In the case of thiolases, while KAT1 was only found in Z4, KAT2 was detected in all seven proteomics experiments, which is in agreement with previous studies that showed PED1/KAT2 to be the major form of 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase in seedlings (CITATION; CITATION). Enoyl-CoA isomerase, an important enzyme for the catabolism of unsaturated fatty acids with cis-double bonds at odd-numbered carbons (CITATION), is the only other major core β-oxidation component that was undetected in etiolated seedling peroxisomes. Lastly, for AAEs and thioesterases, enzymes catalyzing reactions pertaining to the core peroxisomal β-oxidation pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), only three of the nine known AAEs and three of the six thioesterases were detected in our study, possibly due to the low abundance of the undetected isoforms or lack of their substrate(s). Somewhat unexpectedly, except for SGT, we detected all the proteins implicated in peroxisomal steps of photorespiration (Table I), suggesting that peroxisomes of etiolated seedlings may have begun to accumulate photorespiratory enzymes even before light perception, or these enzymes have acquired nonphotorespiratory functions (see “Discussion”). Peroxisomes in etiolated seedlings house most of the known antioxidative enzymes (Table I). However, except for ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE3 (APX3), proteins of the peroxisomal ascorbate-glutathione detoxification system (CITATION), including the previously identified GR1, MDAR1 (CITATION; CITATION), and DHAR (CITATION), were not detected in this study. This suggests that catalase and copper/zinc superoxide dismutase may have more prominent roles in eliminating ROS species from seedling peroxisomes. The five-member PEX11 family of peroxisome membrane proteins oversees the early steps of peroxisome division/proliferation (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast to leaf peroxisomes (CITATION), only three of the five members, PEX11a, PEX11d, and PEX11e, were detected in this study (Table I). PEX11b is induced by light (CITATION); therefore, its absence in peroxisomes from dark-grown seedlings was not unexpected. However, we were intrigued by the lack of detection of PEX11c, especially since we found the less abundant isoform PEX11a (CITATION) in this study. It has been speculated that the PEX11 isoforms have discrete roles in peroxisome multiplication (CITATION); however, their functions have proven difficult to tease apart. Our data suggest that seedlings unexposed to light may mainly use PEX11a, PEX11d, and PEX11e to promote peroxisome elongation. To determine whether genes encoding peroxisomal proteins of etiolated seedlings identified from this study confer any tissue-specific expression pattern, we queried the Botany Array Resource expression browser with all 77 genes (technically 76, as GOX1 and GOX2 shared the same probe), downloaded log2-normalized data for the relative expression of these genes from the AtGenExpress developmental time-line data set (CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Tables S12 and S13), and generated heat maps that clustered the peroxisomal genes based on their level of coexpression. Consistent with their established role in the postgermination process, genes encoding metabolic enzymes pertaining to β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle were strongly coexpressed in dry seeds and imbibed seeds. Conversely, photorespiratory enzyme genes appeared to be repressed at the same developmental stage. Hierarchical clustering also grouped genes encoding proteins in distinct biochemical processes, such as glyoxylate cycle, β-oxidation, and photorespiration, in discrete groups (Supplemental Fig. S6A). Focusing on 14 genes encoding proteins newly validated (Fig. 3; Supplemental Fig. S4) and proteins uniquely found in our study of etiolated seedlings (Supplemental Table S10), we found that, in line with their discovery in etiolated seedling peroxisomes, the genes for RDL1, SCPL20, BZO1, and UP9 were also highly expressed in dry seeds and imbibed seeds compared with other development time points or tissues (Fig. 5A). These results prompted us to examine the expression patterns of these genes during germination in more detail. [[FIGURE]] To dissect the expression profiles of genes encoding peroxisomal proteins in etiolated seedlings in the course of germination, we downloaded microarray data (GSE30223) from a recent study that carried out extensive transcriptional profiling of Arabidopsis seeds at crucial developmental intervals of the germination process (CITATION). All genes in this data set could be ordered into one of four distinct clusters of gene expression: cluster 1, genes steadily induced over the germination time course; cluster 2, stored transcripts highly expressed in the initial stages followed by a decline; cluster 3, genes exhibiting a characteristic expression spike toward the end of stratification that lasted only up to a period of 6 h of exposure to light; and cluster 4, genes with expression level unchanged during germination (CITATION). Log2-normalized data were extracted for peroxisomal genes (Supplemental Table S14) to generate a heat map (Supplemental Fig. S6B). The same 14 genes were analyzed, using RPK1, which was previously classified as a cluster 3 peroxisomal gene (CITATION), as a reference (Fig. 5B). GAPC2, SCPL20, and RDL1 were cluster 1 genes, up-regulated during germination and continuing to be so well into post germination. The transcript abundance of AtHsp15.7 and ACAT1.3 decreased in the germination/postgermination time period, indicating that they were cluster 2 genes. Similar to the cluster 3 gene RPK1, GOX3 showed an expression peak followed by a decline. Akin to the marker genes ICL and MLS, the expression of BZO1 and UP9 did not appear to vary greatly during germination, so they were considered cluster 4 genes (Fig. 5B). In summary, the identification of some proteins only from this proteomic study of etiolated seedling peroxisomes seemed to be largely attributed to the much higher expression level of their genes in seeds. To elucidate the functions of the newly validated peroxisomal proteins in plant development, we resorted to a reverse genetics approach by analyzing the transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutants of these genes. We were able to obtain homozygous mutants for BZO1, SCPL20, GOX3, GAPC2, and RDL1 (Fig. 6A). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis showed that while bzo1-4, scpl20-1, gox3-1, gapc2-2, and rdl1-2 appeared to be null, rdl1-1 retained partial expression of the gene, and interestingly, a T-DNA insertion in the 3′ untranslated region of the SCPL20 gene in scpl20-2 resulted in overexpression of the gene (Fig. 6B). [[FIGURE]] Given that β-oxidation of fatty acids is a major catabolic pathway contributing to gluconeogenesis during germination, mutants in β-oxidation components show compromised growth in the absence of exogenous Suc during early development (CITATION). To test whether any of these newly validated peroxisomal proteins were involved in fatty acid β-oxidation, we measured the hypocotyl length of 7-d-old mutant seedlings grown in the dark on one-half-strength Linsmaier and Skoog (1/2 LS) medium with or without Suc. Although the control mutant pex14, which is defective in peroxisome matrix protein import (CITATION), displayed strong Suc dependence, no obvious deficiencies were observed for any of the tested mutants (Supplemental Fig. S7A). Since the conversion of IBA to indole-3-acetic acid also requires peroxisomal β-oxidation (CITATION), we checked if the mutants were disrupted in this aspect of peroxisome metabolism by measuring growth inhibition of primary root in response to IBA treatment. To this end, mutant seedlings were grown on 1/2 LS supplemented with different concentrations of IBA, and the length of primary root was measured after 7 d. Compared with wild-type plants, the two rdl1 mutant alleles exhibited statistically significant resistance to 10 μm IBA (Fig. 7A), whereas the overexpression line scpl20-2 showed hypersensitivity to 10 μm IBA (Supplemental Fig. S7B). Based on these data, we predicted that both RDL1 and SCPL20 might play positive roles in peroxisomal β-oxidation. [[FIGURE]] We also examined if the functions of the identified proteins extended to photorespiration by comparing the growth of the mutants in ambient air versus low-CO2 (80 µL L−1) conditions. Only rdl1-2 exhibited noticeable differences in appearance under low CO2 by showing strong growth inhibition, and this phenotype could not be rescued by elevated CO2 (1,000 µL L−1), under which conditions rdl1-2 plants were still small and had chlorotic and faster senescing leaves (Fig. 7B). Thus, these peroxisomal proteins do not seem to play strong roles in photorespiration, and RDL1 appears to be involved in nonphotorespiratory processes that impact plant growth under stress conditions. It has been proposed that peroxisomal metabolic pathways are an important determinant of germination potential and postgerminative seedling growth (CITATION; CITATION). Considering the detection of these new proteins in seedling peroxisomes and the strong expression for some of them during seed germination, we investigated their roles in germination. Since fresh seeds from all the mutants germinated normally on regular medium, we quantified radicle emergence from the seeds in the presence of the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA), a known inducer of seed dormancy and inhibitor of germination. Like the wild type, bzo1-4, scpl20-1, scpl20-2, gapc2-2, and gox3-1 showed steadily decreased radicle emergence with increased concentrations of ABA (Supplemental Fig. S7C). However, both rdl1-1 and rdl1-2 were partially hypersensitive to ABA (Fig. 7C), indicating that RDL1 possibly represses the ABA response pathway in seed germination. Interestingly, after prolonged storage, the germination rate of the rdl1 mutant seeds dropped significantly in comparison with wild-type plants and other mutants. Within 7 months of seed harvesting, seed germination rate decreased approximately 20% in the knockdown allele rdl1-1 and approximately 30% in the null allele rdl1-2 (Fig. 7D), supporting a role for RDL1 in seed viability.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia was used for peroxisome isolation. A piece of autoclaved Whatman paper was placed on top of an autoclaved WypAll wipe (Kimberly-Clark; for absorbing water) at the bottom of a 150- × 15-mm petri dish and soaked with autoclaved deionized water. Seeds were surface sterilized and evenly spread on the Whatman paper. The petri dish was then sealed with a Parafilm membrane and wrapped in aluminum foil. After 2 d of stratification at 4°C, petri dishes were exposed to light for 1 h to synchronize germination, rewrapped in foil, and placed in a Percival growth chamber at 22°C. Three days later, germinated seedlings were used for peroxisome isolation. For other assays, Columbia-0 and Columbia-3 were used as controls. Mutants obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre include scpl20-1 (SAIL_392C07), scpl20-2 (SALK_147839), gox3-1 (SALK_020909), rdl1-1 (SALK_085378), rdl1-2 (SALK_051510), and gapc2-2 (SALK_070902). The T-DNA insertion mutant line bzo1-4 (SALK_094196; CITATION) was obtained from Dr. Clint Chapple. Seeds were surface sterilized and plated on 1/2 LS medium (Caisson Laboratories) solidified with 1% (w/v) agar and supplemented with Suc or hormones, as indicated. Plants were grown at 22°C under continuous illumination at 75 μmol photons m−2 s−1 or darkness. Homozygous lines were identified by PCR screening using genomic DNA from seedlings. Approximately 25 g of 3-d-old etiolated seedlings (from approximately eight petri dishes of approximately 3 g of seeds) was used for each peroxisome isolation, using procedures modified from the protocol described by CITATION. Seedlings were scraped off in complete darkness from the Whatman papers and kept in darkness until grinding buffer was added to the sample in the mortar, after which the procedure was performed under light. Samples were homogenized using a mortar and pestle in grinding buffer that contained 0.17 m Tricine-KOH (pH 7.5), 0.5 m Suc (17.1 g per 100 mL), 2% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, 2 mm EDTA, 5 mm dithiothreitol (0.0385 g per 100 mL), 10 mm KCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 0.5% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone-40, 0.1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and protease inhibitor cocktail containing 0.2 mm ε-amino carproic acid, 0.2 mm benzamide, and 1 μg mL−1 aprotinin, leupeptin, and peptatin. The homogenized sample was filtered through two-layer Miracloth to obtain crude extract and centrifuged at 7,000 rpm (SS34 rotor on a Sorvall RC 5C plus) at 4°C for 5 min to remove most chloroplasts. After discarding the pellet, the supernatant was loaded onto the top of a Percoll density gradient prepared in TE buffer (20 mm Tricine-KOH, pH 7.5, and 1 mm EDTA; gradient from bottom to top: 3 mL of 25% [w/v] Suc, 3 mL of 1:1 mixture of 25% [w/v] Suc and 32% [v/v] Percoll, 10 mL of 32% [v/v] Percoll, and 3 mL of 15% [v/v] Percoll) and centrifuged at 10,500 rpm for 15 min and then at 15,000 rpm (SS34 rotor) for 20 min at 4°C. Most of the supernatant was removed, leaving 2 to 3 mL at the bottom of the tube for pellet resuspension. The resuspended pellet was then washed with 2 volumes of 25% (w/v) Suc in TE buffer (added slowly), followed by centrifugation at 18,000 rpm for 30 min. The pellet was gently homogenized and loaded on top of a discontinuous Suc density gradient prepared in TE (bottom to top: 1 mL of 60% [w/v] Suc, 1 mL of 55% [w/v] Suc, 0.5 mL of 51% [w/v] Suc, 2 mL of 49% [w/v] Suc, and 1 mL of 46% [w/v] Suc, 44% [w/v] Suc, 41% [w/v] Suc, and 36% [w/v] Suc) and then ultracentrifuged for 30 min at 25,000 rpm (Beckman SW40 Ti). A milky band in the 51% Suc, which contained highly enriched and intact peroxisomes, was the target fraction and was carefully harvested with a pipetman or glass pipette. Typically, approximately 200 to 300 μg of peroxisomes was obtained from approximately 25 g of starting material, as determined by the Lowry method of protein estimation (CITATION). To get peroxisomal membranes, isolated peroxisomes were diluted in 4 volumes of TE buffer and centrifuged at 50,000g. The pellet was washed in 100 mm Na2CO3 and then centrifuged at 100,000g. The pellet, which contains integral membrane proteins, was dissolved in SDS-PAGE loading buffer and used for 1-DE LC-MS/MS. A ZOOM IEF Fractionator (Invitrogen) was used to separate peroxisomal proteins by pI. We used the standard configuration, which covers a pH range of 3.0 to 10.0. Total proteins were separated into five groups with the following pI ranges: 3.0 to 4.6, 4.6 to 5.4, 5.4 to 6.2, 6.2 to 7.0, and 7.0 to 10.0. Proteins in each subgroup were then subjected to 1-DE LC-MS/MS for protein identification. Due to the low amount of proteins in fractions with pH 4.6 to 5.4 and 5.4 to 6.2, gels from these two fractions were combined for mass spectrometry analysis. For immunoblot analysis of samples from density gradients, the Percoll gradient was divided into 14 fractions (2 mL per fraction) and the Suc gradient was divided into 11 fractions (1 mL per fraction) from the top to the bottom of the tube. After collection, each fraction was briefly centrifuged, and the supernatant from each fraction was mixed with 4 volumes of SDS buffer and subjected to electrophoresis using a 10% (w/v) SDS-PAGE gel. After proteins were transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore), the membranes were blocked with 4% (w/v) nonfat dry milk dissolved in 1× Tris-buffered saline buffer and incubated for 1 h at room temperature with the following primary antibodies for western analysis: TIC110 (1:5,000, rabbit), PEX14 (1:2,500, rabbit), and VDAC (1:2,500; mouse). After 1-DE, each gel lane was cut into slices, which were digested by trypsin before LC-MS/MS using an LTQ-FTICR mass spectrometer (ThermoFisher) as described previously (CITATION). Tandem mass spectra were converted to peak lists by BioWorks browser version 3.2 (ThermoFisher) software with default parameters and analyzed using Mascot version 2.2 (Matrix Science). Mascot was set up to search The Arabidopsis Information Resource 9 database (20090619 version; 33,410 entries) assuming that the digestion enzyme was nonspecific. Mascot was searched with a fragment ion mass tolerance of 0.80 D and a parent ion tolerance of 10.0 µL L−1. The iodoacetamide derivative of Cys was specified in Mascot as a fixed modification. Oxidation of Met was specified in Mascot as a variable modification. Scaffold (version Scaffold_3_00_03; Proteome Software) was used to validate tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS)-based peptide and protein identifications. Peptide identifications were accepted if they could be established at greater than 50.0% probability as specified by the Peptide Prophet algorithm (CITATION). Protein identifications were accepted if they could be established at greater than 99.0% probability and contained at least one identified peptide. Protein probabilities were assigned by the Protein Prophet algorithm (CITATION). Proteins that contained similar peptides and could not be differentiated based on MS/MS analysis alone were grouped to satisfy the principles of parsimony. Reverse directory matches were manually removed. QV, number of assigned spectra, number of unique peptides, number of unique spectra, percentage coverage, percentage of total spectra, and protein identification probabilities were exported from Scaffold version 3.00.3 after selecting the Biological Sample view for each of the seven proteomics experiments. False discovery rates reported are as determined by Scaffold version 3.00.3 with the specified settings (99% confidence for protein identification with a minimum of one peptide detected with 50% confidence for peptide identification). For proteins with single peptide identifications (only found in Z4), MS/MS spectra were manually screened and Mascot ion scores were inspected (cutoff of 30) prior to inclusion of the known peroxisomal proteins (MS/MS spectra for these known peroxisomal proteins are shown in Supplemental Document S1) on our list. The Arabidopsis Subcellular Database SUBA3 (CITATION) was queried to retrieve information about the subcellular localization for all proteins identified in the respective experiments. We also compared the identified proteins with a list of known peroxisomal proteins (CITATION) to assign proteins unambiguously to the peroxisome. Proteins newly validated to be peroxisomal in this study were later included in this list. QV (exported from Scaffold 3.00.3) were totaled for the proteins assigned to each subcellular compartment (QVCompartment) and compared with QV for all proteins identified (qvAll) in the experiment. Percentage distribution of proteins was calculated as (QVCompartment/QVAll) × 100. ICL catalyzes the hydrolysis of isocitrate into glyoxylate and succinate, and its activity was measured as described previously (CITATION) using cell extracts from germinated seedlings or various fractions collected from the peroxisome isolation process. We used the Gateway cloning vectors developed for the leaf peroxisome study (CITATION) to clone candidate genes as either N- or C-terminal YFP fusion proteins. Primer sequences used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table S15. Agroinfiltration and confocal laser scanning microscopy of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells transiently expressing the tested proteins were performed as described by CITATION. Localization results for all clones tested are listed in Supplemental Table S9. For expression at various developmental stages, log2-normalized data for the relative expression were obtained from the Botany Array Resource expression browser (CITATION; CITATION) and are listed in Supplemental Table S12. Details of the AtGenExpress developmental time-line data set used (CITATION; CITATION) are listed in Supplemental Table S13. For expression in the course of germination, CEL files were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus data set GSE30223 from the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. Log2-normalized values for peroxisomal genes were extracted (Supplemental Table S14). Heat-map and clustering analyses were carried out as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown for 7 d on medium with 1% (w/v) Suc, and total RNA was isolated from seedlings as described previously (CITATION). After treating with DNaseI (Qiagen), 1 μg of each RNA sample was reverse transcribed using the iScript cDNA Synthesis kit (Bio-Rad). PCR amplification using 50 ng of complementary DNA was performed for 25 (for UBQ10) or 35 (for tested genes) cycles. The gene-specific primers used for RT-PCR and genotyping are summarized in Supplemental Table S16. For germination assays, seeds were plated on Linsmaier and Skoog medium supplemented with or without ABA (Sigma-Aldrich), stratified at 4°C for 4 d, and grown in Percival growth chambers. After day 6, radicle emergence was scored. All the data are representative of at least three independent experiments. For each experiment, n = 100. For Suc dependence analysis, seeds were placed on plates supplemented with or without 1% (w/v) Suc and stratified at 4°C for 2 d. Hypocotyls were measured on 7-d-old seedlings grown in the dark. To study the IBA response, seeds were sown on plates containing 0.5% (w/v) Suc and IBA (Sigma-Aldrich) and stratified at 4°C for 2 d before the plates were placed in a growth chamber with continuous low-intensity light for 7 d. Hypocotyls were scanned using an EPSON scanner (Epson Perfection 4870 PHOTO) and measured using ImageJ version 1.43u. All the data are representative of at least three independent experiments. For each experiment, n = 50. To observe photorespiratory phenotypes, 2-week-old seedlings were transferred from plates to soil and placed in a controlled-environment growth cabinet with light intensity of 115 μmol photons m−2 s−1, 20°C, a 16-h/8-h photoperiod, and CO2 concentration of 80, 400 (ambient air), or 1,000 µL L−1. Plants were photographed with a COOLPIX 8800 VR camera (Nikon). Accession numbers of all the proteins described in this study can be found in Table I. Sequences used for alignment in Figure 4 are shown in Supplemental Document S2. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. ICL activity of Arabidopsis seedlings after growing 3 to 6 d. Supplemental Figure S2. Silver-stained gel for the immunoblot shown in Figure 1D. Supplemental Figure S3. Subcellular distribution of proteins identified from total peroxisomes (T1 and T2) in this study based on protein number. Supplemental Figure S4. Verification of peroxisomal localization for six proteins identified from this study and our previous leaf peroxisomal proteomics but not confirmed before. Supplemental Figure S5. Comparison of the number of peroxisomal proteins identified from different tissues by different studies. Supplemental Figure S6. Heat maps showing relative expression levels of genes that encode peroxisomal proteins identified from etiolated seedlings in this study. Supplemental Figure S7. Phenotypic analysis of the mutants of the newly validated peroxisomal genes. Supplemental Table S1. Proteins identified from total peroxisomes in experiment T1. Supplemental Table S2. Proteins identified from total peroxisomes in experiment T2. Supplemental Table S3. Proteins identified from ZOOM 1 fraction pH 3.0 to 4.6. Supplemental Table S4. Proteins identified from ZOOM 2 fraction pH 4.6 to 6.2. Supplemental Table S5. Proteins identified from ZOOM 3 fraction pH 6.2 to 7.0. Supplemental Table S6. Proteins identified from ZOOM 4 fraction pH 7.0 to 10.0. Supplemental Table S7. Proteins identified from peroxisomal membrane proteomics. Supplemental Table S8. Summary of nonredundant proteins identified from the seven proteomic experiments in this study. Supplemental Table S9. Proteins tested for subcellular localization in this study. Supplemental Table S10. Proteins identified from three plant peroxisome proteomic studies. Supplemental Table S11. Proteins common or exclusive to the peroxisomal proteome of cell culture, leaves, or etiolated seedlings. Supplemental Table S12. Data used to generate the heat maps in Figure 5A and Supplemental Figure S6A. Supplemental Table S13. Details of the AtGenExpress data sets used in Supplemental Figure S6A. Supplemental Table S14. Data used to generate the heat maps in Figure 5B and Supplemental Figure S6B. Supplemental Table S15. Primers used for subcellular localization. Supplemental Table S16. Primers used for genotyping and RT-PCR analysis. Supplemental Document S1. MS/MS spectra for single peptide identifications. Supplemental Document S2. Sequences used for the alignment shown in Figure 4.
