!~ABS~! Chloroplasts are the site of photosynthesis and the biosynthesis of essential metabolites, including amino acids, fatty acids, and secondary metabolites. It is known that many seedling-lethal mutants are impaired in chloroplast function or development, indicating the development of functional chloroplast is essential for plant growth and development. Here, we isolated a novel transfer DNA insertion mutant, dubbed sel1 (for seedling lethal1), that exhibited a pigment-defective and seedling-lethal phenotype with a disrupted pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) gene. Sequence analysis revealed that SEL1 is a member of the PLS subgroup, which is lacking known E/E+ or DYW domains at the C terminus, in the PLS subfamily of the PPR protein family containing a putative N-terminal transit peptide and 14 putative PPR or PPR-like motifs. Confocal microscopic analysis showed that the SEL1-green fluorescent protein fusion protein is localized in chloroplasts. Transmission electron microscopic analysis revealed that the sel1 mutant is impaired in the etioplast, as well as in chloroplast development. In sel1 mutants, plastid-encoded proteins involved in photosynthesis were rarely detected due to the lack of the corresponding transcripts. Furthermore, transcript profiles of plastid genes revealed that, in sel1 mutants, the transcript levels of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase-dependent genes were greatly reduced, but those of nuclear-encoded RNA polymerase-dependent genes were increased or not changed. Additionally, the RNA editing of two editing sites of the acetyl-CoA carboxylase beta subunit gene transcripts in the sel1 mutant was compromised, though it is not directly connected with the sel1 mutant phenotype. Our results demonstrate that SEL1 is involved in the regulation of plastid gene expression required for normal chloroplast development.
!~RES~! We generated a collection of T-DNA insertion mutants in Arabidopsis (ecotype Wassilewskija-2 [Ws-2] background) and isolated several seedling-lethal mutants with pigment-defective phenotypes, such as albino, pale green, and pale yellow. Among these mutants, we characterized a novel pigment-defective and seedling-lethal mutant grown under normal growth conditions. This mutant was named sel1-1 for the seedling-lethal phenotype. The germinated homozygous sel1-1 mutant on normal Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing Suc developed normally but failed to be pigmented (Fig. 1A). In the absence of Suc, the sel1-1 mutant was not pigmented and halted at the cotyledon stage (Supplemental Fig. S1). When grown on soil, the sel1-1 mutant stalled beyond the cotyledon stage and subsequently died (Fig. 1A). Pigment accumulations, including total chlorophyll and carotenoids, were compared between the wild type and sel1-1 mutant. The contents of total chlorophylls and carotenoids of the sel1-1 mutant were about 6 and 10 times lower, respectively, than those of the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] Genetic analysis indicated that the pigment-defective and seedling-lethal phenotype of the sel1-1 mutant was controlled by a recessive nuclear gene and cosegregated with the phosphinothricin resistance marker. Sequence analysis of the thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR product revealed that the transfer DNA (T-DNA) was inserted 467 bp downstream from the start codon of the At4g18520 gene (Fig. 1B). Northern-blot analysis confirmed that At4g18520 transcript was detected in the wild type but not in the sel1-1 mutant (Fig. 1C). These results indicate that disruption of the At4g18520 gene leads to a pigment-defective and seedling-lethal phenotype of the sel1-1 mutant. To confirm that the sel1-1 mutant phenotype was resulted from the T-DNA insertion in the At4g18520 gene, we obtained two independent T-DNA insertion lines for the At4g18520 gene from the SAIL and SALK collections. Genotype and sequence analyses revealed that the position of the T-DNA insertion was 787 bp and 1,747 bp downstream from the start codon of the At4g18520 gene in SAIL_793_F11 (sel1-2) and SALK_054374 (sel1-3), respectively (Fig. 1B). The phenotype of sel1-2 and sel1-3 was identical to that of sel1-1 (Fig. 1A). Both the sel1-2 and sel1-3 mutants showed no SEL1 transcripts when using northern-blot analysis (Fig. 1C). Furthermore, we confirmed that the pigment-defective and seedling-lethal phenotype of sel1 mutants was associated with the T-DNA insertion into At4g18520 by molecular complementation. The genomic DNA of the At4g18520 gene and its putative promoter region was introduced into a heterozygous sel1-2 mutant. The subsequent genotype, phenotype, and northern-blot analyses confirmed that the introduction of At4g18520 genomic sequence restored the wild-type phenotype in the complemented lines (Fig. 1D). In addition, we generated complemented transgenic plants expressing FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein under the control of the SEL1 promoter. FLAG-tagged SEL1-complemented plants also grew normally like wild-type plants. Thus, we used the FLAG-tagged SEL1-complemented plants for further studies. Taken together, these results revealed that the phenotypes observed in sel1 mutants are caused by a loss of function of the At4g18520 gene. The SEL1 gene does not have an intron and encodes a putative protein of 617 amino acids with a predicted Mr of 69 kD. Sequence analysis revealed that SEL1 protein contains 14 PPR or PPR-like (P, L, and S) motifs but does not contain any other known domains (Fig. 2, A and B). The SEL1 protein is a member of the PLS subfamily and belongs to the PLS subgroup that does not have additional C-terminal domains (CITATION). Furthermore, SEL1 protein has been classified as AtPCMP A2, a member of the Plant Combinatorial Modular Protein subfamily, and belongs to the PCMP-A subgroup (CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the PLS or PCMP-A subgroup contains six members. Amino acid sequence analysis shows that SEL1 protein has significant sequence identity with uncharacterized proteins identified in grape (Vitis vinifera), rice (Oryza sativa), maize, and moss (Physcomitrella patens; Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] Many PPR proteins are predicted to be localized in the chloroplasts and mitochondria (CITATION). The ChloroP program predicted that the SEL1 protein is targeted to the chloroplast, and the N-terminal 19 amino acids of the SEL1 protein are a putative transit peptide to the chloroplast (Fig. 2B). To determine the subcellular localization of SEL1 protein, we made transgenic plants expressing full-length SEL1-GFP fusion protein under the control of a Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. When protoplasts were isolated and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy, we observed the green fluorescence derived from the SEL1-GFP fusion protein exclusively in the chloroplasts (Fig. 3A). This green fluorescence was colocalized with the chlorophyll autofluorescence. Thus, this result indicates that SEL1 protein is localized and functions in the chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the SEL1 protein localization in the chloroplasts, we examined the FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein in the chloroplast subfractions using western-blot analysis. As shown in Figure 3B, FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein was detected only in the soluble fraction but not in the membrane fraction of the chloroplasts. Therefore, this result indicates that SEL1 is a soluble protein located in the chloroplasts. Some PPR proteins are part of a high molecular protein complex that contains RNA molecules (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether SEL1 is a component of the RNA-protein complex in vivo, we examined the position of FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein in soluble fractions using sedimentation through a Suc gradient and western-blot analysis (Supplemental Fig. S3). FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein was broadly distributed in Suc gradient fractions and found predominantly in small Mr complexes, which are smaller than Rubisco, although small fractions of FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein were found in high Mr complexes that are larger than Rubisco. Ribonuclease A treatment prior to sedimentation leads to a reduced level of FLAG-tagged SEL1 protein in all fractions. These results suggest that SEL1 might be a part of a protein complex that is associated with RNA. To investigate the expression pattern of the SEL1 gene in planta, we made transgenic plants expressing the GUS protein under the control of the SEL1 promoter and examined the GUS expression driven by the SEL1 promoter (Fig. 4). In germinating seeds and seedlings, GUS staining was observed in cotyledons but not in roots (Fig. 4, B–E). In adult plants, the GUS activity was strongly detected in rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques (Fig. 4, F–I). In flowers, GUS staining was observed exclusively in green tissues, such as sepals, stamens, and carpels, but not in petals (Fig. 4, G and H). GUS staining was also detected in all of the siliques but not in the stigma (Fig. 4I). Interestingly, GUS staining was also detected in the cotyledons of 3-d-old etiolated seedlings that were grown under dark (Fig. 4A). Therefore, these results indicate that SEL1 is specifically expressed in green aerial tissues and functions under light as well as dark conditions. [[FIGURE]] Because the sel1 mutant is pigment defective and SEL1 protein is localized in the chloroplasts, we examined the chloroplast morphology and ultrastructure in sel1 mutant by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Under light conditions, chloroplasts in the wild type were lens shaped and contained well-organized thylakoid membrane systems composed of stromal and granal thylakoids (Fig. 5A). However, the plastids in the sel1 mutants were small and abnormally shaped, including round and amoeboid, and did not have thylakoid membranes or any membrane structures but contained a large number of small vesicles (Fig. 5B). In addition, densely stained globule aggregates were frequently observed in sel1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] Because SEL1 is expressed in the cotyledons of etiolated seedlings, we also examined the etioplasts ultrastructure. Etioplasts are defined by the presence of the paracrystalline prolamellar body (PLB). Under dark conditions, etioplasts in the wild type showed the typical structures, i.e. spherical or ellipsoidal shape enclosing PLBs and prothylakoid membranes (Fig. 5C). However, plastids in sel1 mutant did not have well-developed PLBs or prothylakoid membranes (Fig. 5D). Some plastids in sel1 mutant showed a PLB-like but disorganized structure. Taken together, these results indicate that the sel1 mutant is impaired in the development of chloroplast, as well as etioplasts, suggesting that SEL1 functions in the early stage of chloroplast development. To compare the accumulation levels of chloroplast proteins of sel1 mutant with those of the wild type, protein amounts were evaluated comparably using western-blot analysis. As shown in Figure 6A, the sel1 mutant did not have detectable levels of subunits of photosynthetic protein complexes corresponding to the products of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit (rbcL), PSI P700 chlorophyll a apoprotein A1 (psbA), PSII protein D1 (psbA), and cytochrome f (petA) genes. However, ATP synthase CF1 beta subunit (AtpB) was slightly reduced in the sel1 mutant when compared with the wild type. The reduction of plastid-encoded proteins could be due to the impaired accumulation of plastid transcripts. To determine whether reduced protein levels in sel1 mutants result from transcriptional defects in the expression of the plastid genes, we examined the expressions of corresponding genes encoding subunits of the photosynthetic protein complex in sel1 mutants by northern-blot analysis (Fig. 6B). Compared with the wild type, the levels of rbcL, psaA, psbA, and petA transcripts were not detected in sel1 mutants. However, transcript pattern of atpB gene in sel1 mutant were different from those in the wild type. While rbcL, psaA, psbA, and petA genes belong to class I plastid genes that are transcribed preferentially by PEP, the atpB gene is a class II plastid gene, which is transcribed by both NEP and PEP (CITATION). In the wild type, there are two major atpB transcripts, in which 2.6- and 2-kb transcripts are transcribed by PEP and NEP, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). However, in the sel1 mutant, the PEP-dependent transcript is strongly reduced, and the NEP-dependent transcript is not changed. In addition, the two long transcripts, which do not exist in the wild type, are accumulated in the sel1 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S4). This pattern of atpB transcripts in the sel1 mutant is similar to that observed in PEP-defective mutants such as clb19 and sigma factor6 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). This result suggests that the mutation of SEL1 may affect PEP activity but not NEP activity. Taken together, the deficiencies of the photosynthetic protein complexes in the sel1 mutant are caused by a defect in the transcription of corresponding plastid genes encoding subunits for photosynthetic protein complexes. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the SEL1 mutation specifically affects transcription by PEP but not NEP, we examined the transcript abundance of various plastid genes in the sel1 mutant by quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis. As shown in Figure 7, there were significant differences in plastid gene expression between the wild type and sel1 mutant. Compared with the wild type, the expressions of the plastid genes that are transcribed by PEP, including the psbA, psbB, psbD, psbE, petB, ndhA, and rbcL genes, were strongly reduced in the sel1 mutant. In addition, plastid ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) genes (rrn16s [for16S ribosomal RNA] and rrn23s), which are transcribed by both NEP and PEP, were also significantly reduced in sel1 mutant. However, transcript levels of the plastid genes, including the accD, ribosomal protein L33 (rpl33), rps18, hypothetical chloroplast open reading frames2, and rpo genes, which are transcribed by NEP, were increased or unchanged in sel1 mutant (Fig. 7). These results indicate that SEL1 is required for proper expression of plastid genes. [[FIGURE]] The impairment in RNA editing has been reported in some PPR mutants, such as clb19, ys1, atecb2, and vanilla cream1 (vac1), leading to PEP-defective transcription (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These mutants showed the similar pigment-defective and seedling-lethal phenotype to sel1 mutants. To examine whether the SEL1 functions in RNA editing, we tested the 34 RNA editing sites of plastid transcripts in the sel1 mutant using high-resolution melting (HRM) analysis (CITATION). The sel1 mutant shows altered editing extent at most of RNA editing sites compared with the wild type, although they were edited correctly, as in the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S5). Interestingly, among 34 RNA editing sites known to be edited in the wild-type chloroplast, the RNA editing of accD-2 was severely impaired in the sel1 mutant, indicating that SEL1, as a member of the PLS subgroup, might be required for RNA editing of accD-2 site in Arabidopsis. To confirm this defect, we examined the RNA editing of accD transcript by direct sequencing of reverse transcription (RT) product and identified defects of RNA editing of accD-1 as well as accD-2 in the sel1 mutant (Fig. 8). The RNA editing of accD-1 is significantly reduced and that of accD-2 is completely abolished in the sel1 mutant. We also evaluated the editing rates of these two editing sites in the wild type and sel1 mutant. The editing rates of the two sites in the wild type were 100% and 91%, respectively, whereas they were 16% and 0%, respectively, in the sel1 mutant (Table I). Furthermore, in the sel1 mutant, RNA editing of some plastid transcripts (ATP-dependent Clp protease proteolytic subunit, rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1, and rps14) is mildly enhanced relative to the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S6). Taken together, these results suggest that SEL1 might be required for RNA editing of plastid transcripts, including most notably accD transcripts. [[FIGURE]] The editing rate was determined by analysis of approximately 25 independent clones from RT-PCR products including accD-1 and accD-2 in the wild type and sel1 mutant. In mutants with defects in the plastid ribosome, pleiotropic effects in plastid gene expression have been reported, in which they could not translate plastid-encoded proteins, including PEP core subunits (CITATION). Therefore, the reduced levels of PEP-dependent transcripts in the sel1 mutant might be caused by functional defects of the plastid ribosome. To ensure the link of the less PEP activity to sel1 mutant phenotype, the transcript levels and patterns of plastid rRNAs in sel1 mutant were investigated using northern-blot analysis (Fig. 9A). Compared with the wild type, the expression levels of all plastid rRNAs were significantly reduced in the sel1 mutant. However, the transcript patterns of plastid rRNAs in the sel1 mutant were similar to those of the wild type. [[FIGURE]] Although the accumulation of plastid rRNAs is strongly reduced, the function of the plastid ribosome may not be impaired in the sel1 mutant. To test this possibility, we examined plastid rRNAs associated with the polysome in the sel1 mutant by polysomal RNA gel-blot analysis. As shown in Figure 9B, there was no difference in the distribution of plastid rRNAs between the wild type and sel1 mutant, although the amount of plastid rRNAs associating with polysomes was reduced in the sel1 mutant. Because the sel1 mutant contains significantly fewer plastid rRNAs than the wild type, this is likely a consequence of plastid rRNAs deficiency, which could be either due to a lack of functional PEP activity or to an abnormal rRNA metabolism. Likewise, the majority of the psaA, psbA, and rbcL transcripts were associated with polysomes in the wild type but were not detected in the sel1 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S7). These results indicate that in sel1 mutant, the functional plastid ribosomes exist, but the content of functional plastid ribosomes is significantly reduced. Because the visible and molecular phenotype of sel1 mutant is similar to those of mutants that have a defect in PEP function (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), it is likely that sel1 mutant is a PEP-defective mutant. PEP is composed of plastid-encoded core subunits and nuclear-encoded σ factors. The core subunits of the PEP are encoded by the plastid rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1, and rpoC2 genes, which are NEP-dependent genes (class III). In sel1 mutant, the transcript levels for rpo genes showed multiple times greater than those of the wild type (Fig. 7). To probe any possibility of abnormal rpo transcripts in sel1 mutant, the amount and pattern of rpo transcripts were compared with those of the wild type using northern-blot analysis. As shown in Figure 10A, rpoA is cotranscribed with several ribosomal protein genes as part of rpl23 operon, whereas rpoB, rpoC1, and rpoC2 are cotranscribed as part of rpoB operon. In sel1 mutant, the transcript accumulation for all rpo genes were significantly increased compared with the wild type, but the transcript patterns were similar in the wild type and sel1 mutant (Fig. 10B). This result indicates that SEL1 mutation causes a significant increase in the amount of rpo transcripts with no change of transcript patterns of rpo genes. To investigate whether the increased transcripts led to increase the corresponding proteins comparably, RpoB protein in sel1 mutant was compared with that of the wild type using western-blot analysis. The sel1 mutant showed similar level of RpoB to the wild type, though the rpoB transcript level of sel1 mutant is much higher than that of the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S8B). This result suggests that sel1 mutant may have comparable PEP level to the wild type, but PEP activity of sel1 mutant is not parallel to the wild type. Taken together, these results suggest that the mutation of SEL1 disturbed the PEP function, which decreased the overall level of functional rRNAs in plastids. Eventually, the nonoperational transcription and translation in sel1 mutant impeded the proper chloroplast biogenesis, resulting in seedling-lethal phenotype. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were surface sterilized and incubated at 4°C for 3 d to synchronize germination and plated on MS medium (Duchefa Biochemie) containing 1% (w/v) Suc and 0.7% (w/v) agar in a growth chamber at 22°C under 16-h-light/8-h-dark condition. Plants were grown in soil (Sunshine Mix #1; SunGro) in a growth room at 22°C under continuous light. The sel1-1 mutant was isolated from T-DNA insertion mutant lines, which are generated in Ws-2 background with simple T-DNA vector pDAP101 (CITATION), whereas seeds of sel1-2 (SAIL_793_F11) and sel1-3 (SALK_054374) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. For the complementation test of the sel1 mutant, the 2,629-bp wild-type genomic DNA fragment of the At4g18520 gene, containing 645 bp of a putative promoter sequence and 130 bp of 3′ untranslated region, was amplified using Pfu-X polymerase (SolGent) and gene-specific primers. After verification by sequencing, the amplified fragment was cloned into a pBIN19 binary vector and subsequently introduced into heterozygous sel1-3 mutant plants using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated floral dip method (CITATION). For the generation of FLAG-tagged SEL1 complementation line, DNA encoding three copies of FLAG was amplified and cloned into pCB308 binary vector (CITATION), producing pCB308-FLAG vector. The SEL1 genomic DNA without stop codon, including 645-bp upstream region from ATG, was amplified and cloned into pCB308-FLAG vector and subsequently introduced into heterozygous sel1-2 mutant plants. Total RNA was extracted from 7-d-old seedlings using the easy-BLUE Total RNA Extraction Kit (iNtRON Biotechnology), separated on MOPS-formaldehyde agarose gel, and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Whatman). The 32P-labeled probes were prepared using a DecaLabel DNA Labeling Kit (Fermentas). Prehybridization, hybridization, washes, and signal detection were performed as described previously (CITATION). Analysis of the subcellular localization of GFP fusion proteins in protoplasts was performed as described previously (CITATION). Chloroplasts were isolated and separated into soluble and membrane fractions as described previously (CITATION). Tissues were incubated in cold 90% (v/v) acetone and placed in a staining buffer (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, 0.2% Triton-X, 2 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 2 mm potassium ferricyanide, and 2 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid). After a vacuum infiltration, samples were incubated overnight at 37°C. GUS-stained tissues were cleared with an ethanol series and fixed in formaldehyde-acetic acid solution (50% [v/v] ethanol, 10% [v/v] acetic acid, and 5% [v/v] formaldehyde). Following fixation, samples were stored in 70% (v/v) ethanol and examined under the dissecting microscope. TEM analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION), with minor modification. For analysis of the etioplast ultrastructure, wild-type and sel1 mutant seedlings were grown on MS agar plates in the dark for 7 d. Under dim green light, cotyledons of the wild type were directly detached from seedlings and then immediately soaked in fixation solution. For the sel1 mutant, cotyledons were detached and soaked in numbered 1.5-mL tubes containing fixation solution. The genotype of the sample was determined by PCR using the remaining part of the seedling. The detached cotyledons in the corresponding tubes confirmed that homozygous sel1 mutant was used for TEM analysis. Total proteins were isolated from 7-d-old seedlings as described previously (CITATION), separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, immunoblotted with various antibodies, and detected using the enhanced chemiluminescence kit (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Antibodies were obtained from Agrisera (RbcL, PsaA, D1 protein of PSII, AtpB, and cytochrome subunit f) and from Uniplastomic (AccD and RpoB). Total RNA was extracted from 7-d-old wild-type and sel1 mutant seedlings by using the NucleoSpin RNA Plant Kit (Macherey-Nagel). DNA-free RNA (2 μg) was then reverse transcribed with random hexamers by using a RevertAid First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fermentas). Quantitative real-time PCR was carried out in an IQ5 Light Cycler (Bio-Rad) using SYBR Premix Ex Taq II (Takara). The relative quantification of gene expression data were analyzed using the IQ5 Optical System Software (Bio-Rad). The data set was normalized using cytosolic 18S rRNA as a reference and setting the median value to 0. The primer sequences used in quantitative RT-PCR analysis are described in CITATION. HRM analysis was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Genomic DNA for HRM analysis was isolated with plant I genomic DNA (iNtRON Biotechnology). RNA isolation and RT were performed as above. The sequence including the accD RNA editing sites (accD-1 and accD-2) from the wild type and sel1 mutant was amplified by PCR with gene-specific primer pairs, and then the RT-PCR products were sequenced directly or cloned into a T-blunt vector using a T-blunt PCR Cloning Kit (SolGent). Plasmids prepared from 25 independent colonies of each sample were sequenced to determine the RNA editing efficiency of accD-1 and accD-2. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At4g18520. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Supplemental Figure S2. The content of chlorophyll and carotenoids in sel1 mutant. Supplemental Figure S3. Sucrose gradient sedimentation analysis of SEL1-containing particles in chloroplast. Supplemental Figure S4. The transcript accumulation and pattern of atpB gene in sel1 mutant. Supplemental Figure S5. High-resolution melting analysis of plastid RNA editing in sel1 mutant. Supplemental Figure S6. RNA editing of plastid transcripts in sel1 mutant. Supplemental Figure S7. Polysome association of photosynthesis-related mRNAs in sel1 mutant. Supplemental Figure S8. Analysis of the plastid-encoded genes in sel1 mutant.
