!~ABS~! During cytokinesis a new crosswall is rapidly laid down. This process involves the formation at the cell equator of a tubulo-vesicular membrane network (TVN). This TVN evolves into a tubular network (TN) and a planar fenestrated sheet, which extends at its periphery before fusing to the mother cell wall. The role of cell wall polymers in cell plate assembly is poorly understood. We used specific stains and GFP-labelled cellulose synthases (CESAs) to show that cellulose, as well as three distinct CESAs, accumulated in the cell plate already at the TVN stage. This early presence suggests that cellulose is extruded into the tubular membrane structures of the TVN. Co-localisation studies using GFP–CESAs suggest the delivery of cellulose synthase complexes (CSCs) to the cell plate via phragmoplast-associated vesicles. In the more mature TN part of the cell plate, we observed delivery of GFP–CESA from doughnut-shaped organelles, presumably Golgi bodies. During the conversion of the TN into a planar fenestrated sheet, the GFP–CESA density diminished, whereas GFP–CESA levels remained high in the TVN zone at the periphery of the expanding cell plate. We observed retrieval of GFP–CESA in clathrin-containing structures from the central zone of the cell plate and from the plasma membrane of the mother cell, which may contribute to the recycling of CESAs to the peripheral growth zone of the cell plate. These observations, together with mutant phenotypes of cellulose-deficient mutants and pharmacological experiments, suggest a key role for cellulose synthesis already at early stages of cell plate assembly.
!~RES~! The cellulose synthase catalytic subunit CESA1 is required for cytokinesis as shown by the presence of incomplete cell plates in loss-of-function mutants (Beeckman et al., CITATION). To study the subcellular localisation of this protein in dividing cells, we expressed a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–CESA1 fusion protein from its own promoter in a cesa1 mutant background. This construct complemented the mutant phenotype and hence is functional (Figure S1). We studied the localisation of GFP–CESA1 in cortical and epidermal cells of 4-day-old roots using laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM) after staining of the plasma membrane and developing cell plate with the styryl dye FM4–64. In interphase cells, GFP–CESA1 was present in the plasma membrane and in different subcellular compartments. The doughnut-shaped GFP–CESA1 organelles were previously identified as Golgi stacks (Figure 1a; Crowell et al., CITATION; Gutierrez et al., CITATION). In dividing cells, GFP–CESA1 was strongly enriched in mature cell plates as compared with the plasma membrane of the mother cells (Figure 1a,b), indicating the existence of a mechanism that selectively concentrates CSCs to the cell plate in dividing cells. To further investigate this finding, we followed the presence of GFP–CESA1 during cell plate formation. Interestingly, GFP–CESA1 was already present at early stages of cell plate formation and further accumulated at the periphery of the growing cell plate (Figure 1c–e). The composition of CSCs can change during development (Persson et al., CITATION; Bischoff et al., CITATION) and it is not known whether the two other primary cell wall cellulose synthases CESA3 and CESA6 are also required in cell plate formation since no cytokinesis defects were observed in the respective partial loss-of-function mutants. We therefore studied the localisation of the respective GFP-fusion proteins (Desprez et al., CITATION). Interestingly both GFP–CESA3 (Figure 1f–h) and GFP–CESA6 (Figure 1i–k), expressed from their own 5′ upstream regions, showed accumulation patterns similar to those of GFP–CESA1, suggesting that the cell plate-associated CSCs, like those present in interphase cells, comprise all three subunits. To monitor cellulose synthesis during cell plate formation, it is essential to precisely determine the stage of cell plate formation. The TVN corresponds to the zone of the developing cell plate at the equator of the phragmoplast. As soon as the phragmoplast moves away centrifugally, the central phragmoplast-free zone turns into the TN, which upon fusion of the cell plate with the mother cell plasma membrane, turns into a FS before turning into the mature cell plate. In Figure 2, we labelled microtubules with anti-α-tubulin antibodies, the DNA with DAPI and the membrane networks that support cell plate formation with anti-syntaxin KNOLLE antibodies (Lauber et al., CITATION). During the prophase and metaphase, KNOLLE, GFP–CESA3 and GFP–CESA1 were present in intracellular compartments surrounding the nucleus (arrowheads in Figure 2a,b,f,g,k) and there was no labelling at the equatorial plane (Figure 2b,g,k). At the transition anaphase/telophase, when the chromosomes were separated and still condensed, KNOLLE labelled the cell equator, corresponding to the phragmoplast-surrounded TVN (Figure 2c). At this stage, GFP–CESA3 was already present in the developing cell plate (Figure 2h). As judged from the still condensed chromosomes, GFP–CESA1 also colocalised with the FM4–64-labelled TVN (Figure 2l). During telophase, the nucleus had evolved into an ovoid shape with partially decondensed DNA, the phragmoplast microtubules had moved away centrifugally and KNOLLE was still present throughout the cell plate (Figure 2d). At this stage both GFP–CESA3 (Figure 2i) and GFP–CESA1 (Figure 2m) were present in the phragmoplast-depleted TN but the label was stronger at the peripheral, phragmoplast-surrounded, TVN zone of the cell plate. At the late telophase, large nucleoli were visible in the nucleus (Figure 2e,n) and phragmoplast microtubules disappeared where the cell plate reached the parental plasma membrane (arrowheads in Figure 2e,j). At this stage GFP–CESA3 and GFP–CESA6 remained more abundant at the cell plate periphery. In conclusion, both GFP–CESA1 and GFP–CESA3 were present in the cell plate at as early as at the TVN phase. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The presence of CSCs at the TVN stage precedes the previously reported observation of cellulose from the TN stage on (Samuels et al., CITATION). We therefore investigated whether these CSCs also synthesize cellulose. To this end, we used the cellulose-specific fluorescent dye Pontamine Fast Scarlet 4B (S4B; Anderson et al., CITATION) and the crystalline cellulose-binding module CBM3a (Blake et al., CITATION) to label whole-mount preparations of roots. S4B showed a strong transverse fibrillar staining pattern, corresponding to cellulose microfibrils, in all root cell walls (Figure 3a and Movie S1). As expected, this staining was significantly reduced in roots treated with the cellulose synthesis inhibitor isoxaben or in roots of the cellulose-deficient mutant kor1–2 (Zuo et al., CITATION) (Figures 3g–i and S2a,b), both of which displayed radially expanded cells. Interestingly, in dividing cells, S4B also stained the developing cell plate even at stages as early as at the TVN stage as shown by the flattened nucleus with still condensed chromosomes (Figure 3a,b,d and Movie S1). This staining was not due to autofluorescence as shown by the unlabelled control (Figure S2(c)). At the same stage, the staining was weaker in the isoxaben-treated plants and at background levels in kor1–2 roots (Figure 3g–i) confirming the specificity of the stain for cellulose. The presence of cellulose in developing cell plates was confirmed by whole-mount immunolabelling with CBM3a. Again, cellulose was detected at the transition anaphase/telophase (Figure S3c) and mature cell plates (Figure S3d) with no labelling at the metaphase (Figure S3b). The labelling was weaker in the isoxaben-treated plants compared with untreated seedlings (Figure S3e–g). Our data show that cellulose is present from the TVN stage on, which is consistent with the early appearance of the GFP–CESAs in the developing cell plate. [[FIGURE]] Cell plate formation is initiated by the formation of dense phragmoplast microtubule arrays. Along these arrays Golgi-derived membrane vesicles migrate to the equatorial plane, where they form membranous compartments through homotypic fusion inside the cell plate assembly matrix (Segui-Simarro et al., CITATION). These compartments form tubular structures, which grow and coalesce, thus forming the TVN (Samuels et al., CITATION). Here we observed that at the anaphase/telophase transition, GFP–CESA-containing compartments moved throughout the cell but were excluded from the growing cell plate by the dense phragmoplast microtubule arrays (Figures 2h, 4a and Movie S2). The exclusion from the cell plate of Golgi stacks and other organelles by phragmoplast microtubules has been observed previously (Samuels et al., CITATION; Nebenfuhr et al., CITATION). We investigated whether CSCs were associated with the phragmoplast using transgenic lines expressing both GFP–CESA3 and mCherry-MBD. Using spinning disk microscopy and image processing, we detected a faint but reproducible GFP–CESA3 signal overlapping with the microtubule signal at early and late telophase (Figure 4c,e, n > 50). Treatment with the microtubule-stabilising drug taxol further enhanced the phragmoplast-associated GFP–CESA3 signal (Figure 4d,f, n > 50). Together, these results suggest that CSCs are present in phragmoplast-associated vesicles, which presumably are on their way to the cell plate. [[FIGURE]] During telophase, the phragmoplast-depleted central zone becomes accessible to organelles (Segui-Simarro et al., CITATION). A 3D reconstruction of a late telophase phragmoplast clearly shows the close proximity of GFP–CESA3-containing compartments to the central microtubule-free zone (Figure 4b and Movie S3). Time-lapse movies showed that in this zone, doughnut-shaped compartments (presumably Golgi stacks) frequently paused (up to 30s, n > 30) and made contact with the cell plate. In some cases we also observed the delivery of fluorescent material from the compartment to the cell plate (Figure 4g n = 10 and Movie S4). Finally, after fusion of the cell plate with the mother cell plasma membrane, GFP–CESA1 punctae were shown to migrate directly from the plasma membrane to the cell plate via the plasma membrane-cell plate junction (Figure 4h,i and Movie S5). In conclusion, GFP-labelled CSCs appeared to reach the cell plate at least through three distinct pathways (Figure 7): via (1) phragmoplast-associated compartments; (2) direct or indirect (via vesicles) delivery from mobile compartments (presumably Golgi stacks) to microtubule-free zones of the growing cell plate; or (3) through plasma membrane-cell plate junctions. Time-lapse imaging of maturing cell plates showed that the GFP–CESA1 signal, which initially had a more or less uniform distribution throughout the cell plate, rapidly diminished in the central zone and increased in the peripheral phragmoplast-covered zone (Figure 5a,b, n = 20 out of 60 observed cell plates). We next investigated whether the depletion of GFP–CESA1 from the central zone was the result of active vesicle retrieval, which is a process topologically equivalent to endocytosis from the plasma membrane. To this end, we studied the effect of the ARF-GEF inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA) on cells coexpressing GFP–CESA1 and the early endosome marker mCherry-RabA1 g (Geldner et al., CITATION). BFA triggers in Arabidopsis the aggregation of endosomal compartments and inhibits recycling from endosome to plasma membrane (Geldner et al., CITATION, CITATION; Baluska et al., CITATION; Grebe et al., CITATION, CITATION; Samaj et al., CITATION; Murphy et al., CITATION; Paciorek et al., CITATION). In untreated seedlings, mCherry-RabA1 g labelled intracellular punctae (early endosomes) as well as the cell plate, as described before (Geldner et al., CITATION). GFP–CESA1 partially overlapped with mCherry-RabA1 g in the cell plate and endosomes (Figure 5c). Upon BFA treatment for 30 min, GFP–CESA1 was found in mCherry-RabA1 g-containing endosomal aggregates, and in the doughnut-shaped compartments that surrounded these aggregates. These aggregates were present at both ends of the early stage cell plate, presumably excluded from the central zone by the phragmoplast microtubules (Figure 5d, n = 22 out of 54 early cell plates). At later stages however, they were located primarily around the microtubule-free central zone (Figure 5e, n = 54 out of 120 cell plates). This finding suggests that the retrieval of CSCs occured primarily in zones of the cell plate not covered by the phragmoplast. To investigate whether CSC retrieval was clathrin-mediated, we used a line that co-expressed GFP–CESA1 and the clathrin large subunit (CLC) fused to mOrange. Both markers were present at the cell plate from late anaphase to telophase. CLC-mOrange was present in the central zone and less abundant in the peripheral zone (Figure 5f, n = 15 out of 35 cells plates) in line with a previous study, which showed increased numbers of clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs) in the microtubule-free area (Segui-Simarro et al., CITATION). GFP–CESA1, in contrast, showed a stronger signal at the periphery of the cell plate. Next, we used time-lapse imaging to track the retrieval of clathrin-coated GFP–CSC-containing punctae. We indeed observed the retrieval of CLC-mOrange/GFP–CESA1 punctae from the cell plate with a corresponding decrease of fluorescence at the cell plate (Figure 6a, Movie S6, n = 12). We also observed retrieval of doubly labelled punctae from the parental plasma membrane (Figure 6b, n = 10, Movie S7). At late telophase, many of the phragmoplast arrays were surrounded by multiple doubly labelled punctae (Figure 6c,d), the presence of CLC-mOrange suggested that these GFP–CESA-containing compartments were generated by clathrin-mediated retrieval from the cell plate center or the parental plasma membrane (Figure 6c,d). It is possible but not proven that these phragmoplast-associated compartments mediate the recycling of CSCs to the peripheral growth zone of the cell plate (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Dynamins form springs around membrane compartments causing them to constrict (Otegui et al., CITATION; Segui-Simarro et al., CITATION; Verma and Hong, CITATION). They play a role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis (Fujimoto et al., CITATION) but also in the formation of tubular structures of the TVN (Segui-Simarro et al., CITATION). One family member, DRP1a, is essential for cell plate formation as shown by the randomly oriented incomplete cell plates in a loss-of-function mutant (Collings et al., CITATION). To investigate the role of DRP1a in cell plate formation, we generated an Arabidopsis line expressing both DRP1a-mOrange and GFP–CESA1. Both proteins accumulated in the cell plate and were relocalised from the center to the peripheral zone during cell plate maturation (Figure 5g). As tubule formation takes place in this peripheral zone and clathrin-mediated endocytosis preferentially in the central zone, the DRP1a accumulation pattern suggests a role primarily in TVN formation. Similarly, the GFP–CESA1 accumulation pattern also suggests a role for cellulose synthesis during TVN formation and/or its transition into the TN, rather than in the subsequent maturation into the FS.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col0) were provided by K. Feldman (University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA), and GFP–CESA6 and GFP–CESA3 line and their complementation tests were described previously (Desprez et al., CITATION). DRP1A-mOrange and CLC-mOrange were kindly provided by Steven Backues and Sebastian Bednarek (Konopka and Bednarek, CITATION), mCherry-RabA1 g by N. Geldner (Geldner et al., CITATION), kor1–2 by N Chua (Zuo et al., CITATION). For imaging, seedlings were cultured on vertical petri dishes on MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, CITATION). Seeds were cold-treated at 4°C for 48 h and at 23°C with a 8 h dark per 16 h light cycle for 3 to 4 days. The lengths of hypocotyls fixed with 0.2% formaldehyde were measured in ImageJ. Pollen from GFP–CESA1-expressing plants in cesa1rsw1–10 background (Desprez et al., CITATION) was used to fertilise plants expressing CLC-mOrange or DRP1A-mOrange or mCherry-RABA1 g. Pollen from GFP–CESA3-expressing plants in cesa3je5 background (Desprez et al., CITATION) was used to fertilise plants expressing mCherry-MBD. F1 seeds were collected and amplified. F2 seedlings were screened by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of both markers and the respective mutations. F3-selected seedlings were used for imaging. Standard molecular cloning techniques were performed essentially as described (Sambrook and Russel, CITATION). Constructs were made by using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA, http://www.lifetechnologies.com). A 1.16-kb fragment of the CESA1 promoter upstream of the initiation codon was amplified by PCR with specific primers that contained HindIII and XbaI restriction sites (Table 1) and cloned into the HindIII-blunted XbaI site of the pGWB6 vector after the removal of the 35S promoter. The cDNA of CESA1 was amplified used specific primers (Table 1) and Gateway reactions were performed to obtain the promoter CESA1–GFP–CESA1 construct (GFP–CESA1). The cDNA of MBD kindly provided by M. Pastuglia was introduced into the Gateway vector p35S-mCherry from Clontech. GCTCTAGACGCAGCCACCGACACACA CCAAGCTTATGAATAATGATTACCCTTA GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCCATGGAGGCCAGTGCCGGCTT GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCCATGGAAAAGACACCTCCTTTGCCAT Each final expression vector was electroporated in Agrobacterium tumefaciens. GFP–CESA1 and mCherry-MBD constructs were introduced, respectively, into cesa1rsw1–10mutant (Desprez et al., CITATION) and Col0 using A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Primary transformants were selected on kanamycin, and F2 progenies were used for the visualization of the fluorescent protein. Incubation of Arabidopsis seedlings with various chemicals was carried out in 6-well cell culture plates in liquid Arabidopsis medium (Duchefa Biochimie, Haarlem, the Netherlands, http://www.duchefa-biochimie.nl). The initial stocks of isoxaben, taxol and BFA were in dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO), and to obtain the appropriate concentration in the culture medium, the stocks were diluted at least 1000-fold. Treatments were performed with 8 μm Taxol for 2 h or 50 μm BFA for 30 min. The products are from Sigma Aldrich Corporation, St Louis MO, USA, http://www.sigmaalrich.com. For the isoxaben treatment, seedlings were grown on 10 nM isoxaben during 4 days. Cells in living roots were stained with 50 μm FM4–64 (Molecular Probes). For visualizing nuclei in living Arabidopsis cells, the seedlings were incubated with one drop of anti-fading solution (Vectashield, Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA, USA, http://www.vectorlabs.com) with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) solution (100 μm; Roche Applied Science, Penzberg, Germany, http://www.roche-applied-science.com). For Pontamine Fast Scarlet 4B staining, 5 day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed under vacuum in 4% paraformaldehyde, 0.5 × MTSB buffer (25 mm PIPES, 2.5 mm EGTA, 2.5 mm MgSO4, adjusted to pH 7 with KOH) and 0.1% Triton for 1 h. Samples were then washed with 1 × PBS, 0.1% Triton for 10 min. Samples were incubated for 60 h with S4B at room temperature (not done for the unlabelled cells). The initial stock of S4B was 0.1% in 1 × PBS and it was diluted at 33-fold. After staining, samples were washed for 10 min with 1 × PBS. Samples were mounted in Citifluor/DAPI 20 μg mL−1. For the CBM3a immunolabelling, seedlings were incubated with 95% pentane during 10 min to remove the cuticle and washed with MTSBT buffer (50 mm PIPES, 2 mm EGTA, 2 mm MgSO4, 0.05% Triton). Seedlings were fixed in 1.5% formaldehyde (v/v), 0.5% glutaraldehyde (v/v) in MTSBT overnight followed by a 1 h vacuum treatment. After three washes with MTSBT, the tissues were digested by pectolyase 0.05% and cellulase 0.05% in MTSBT that contained 0.4 M of mannitol for 1 h at 30°C. After three washes in MTSB, they were digested by driselase 2.5% (resuspended in water) for 45 min at 37°C under agitation. After three washes in MTSB, seedlings were incubated in methanol for 10 min at –20°C followed by 1 × PBS for 10 min and 1 × PBS with 1% BSA and 50 mm glycine (solution 1) for 30 min. After three washes with 1 × PBS with 50 mm glycine (solution 2) they were incubated in 1 × PBS with 50 mm glycine and Triton X100 0.5% during 1 h. After a wash in solution 2, CBM3a antibody diluted at 1:100 was added in 1 × PBS with 50 mm glycine and 1% BSA overnight at 4°C (Plant Probes) (not done for the unlabelled cells). After three washes in solution 2, monoclonal antibody polyhistidine (Sigma) produced in mouse diluted at 1:100 was added in solution 1 for 3 h at room temperature and after three washes in solution 2, goat anti-mouse IgG conjugated with Alexa 488 (Fisher, Illkirsch, France, http://www.fr;fisherscience) was added in solution 1. After three washes, samples were mounted in Citifluor/DAPI 20 μg mL−1. For the Figure 2, seedlings were fixed under vacuum in 4% paraformaldehyde, 0.5 × MTSB buffer (25 mm PIPES, 2.5 mm EGTA, 2.5 mm MgSO4, adjusted to pH 7 with KOH) and 0.1% Triton X100 for 1 h. Samples were then washed with 0.5 × MTSB, 0.1% Triton X100 for 10 min. For cell wall permeabilization, samples were treated for 10 min with 80% methanol, washed with 1 × PBS and then digested (MES 25 mm pH 5.5, CaCl2 8 mm, mannitol 600 mm, pectolyase 0.02%, macerozyme 0.1%) for 30 min at 37°C. Samples were incubated with primary antibody (the B-5–1-2 monoclonal anti-α-tubulin 1:1000 (Sigma–Aldrich) and the anti-KNOLLE antibody 1:500 (kind gift of G. Jürgens)) overnight at 4°C and for 1 h at 37°C with the secondary antibody (Alexa 488 goat anti-mouse for the anti-α-tubulin, 1:1000; Molecular Probes, A21432 and Alexa 555 goat anti-rabbit for the anti-knolle, 1:1000; Molecular Probes (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA, http://www.lifetechnologies.com), A21428). After each antibody treatment, samples were washed for 10 min with glycine 50 mm/1 × PBS. Samples were mounted in Citifluor/DAPI 20 μg mL−1. Imaging of 3- or 4-day-old, living seedlings was performed on an Axiovert 200M microscope (Zeiss) equipped with an Axio Observer Z1 Zeiss microscope (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany, http://www.zeiss.com) equipped with a Yokogawa CSU-X1 spinning disk, Zeiss 3100/1.4 numerical aperture oil objective, and Roper EMCCD Quantum 512C. A 488-nm diode-pumped solid-state laser was used for excitation of GFP, and emission was collected using a band-pass 500/550 nm (Semrock, Rochester, NY, USA, http://www.semrock.com). A 561-nm diode-pumped solid-state laser was use for excitation of mCherry and emission was collected using a band-pass 598–660 nm. Z-stacks were acquired with an interval of 0.3 μm. Time series were acquired with a maximal time interval. Time exposure was 500 msec. The intensity of the laser was modulated according to the experiments. Root-tip cells were imaged with a Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope using a 405 nm diode laser line exciting DAPI, a 488 nm argon laser line exciting Alexa Fluor 488 and GFP, FM4–64, a 561 nm diode laser line exciting mOrange and Alexa Fluor 555 and a 514 nm diode laser line exciting Scarlet 4B. Fluorescence emission was detected between 410 and 480 nm for DAPI, aniline blue, 495–530 nm for Alexa Fluor 488, GFP, 650–700 nm for FM4–64, and 565–600 nm for mOrange, Alexa Fluor 555, 605–640 nm for S4B. In multi-labelling studies, detection was performed in a sequential line-scanning mode with a line average of eight. The quality of the images were improved by subtracting the noise using ImageJ software (F. Cordelières, Curie; W. Rasban, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Kymograph analysis was also carried out with a plug-in made by F. Cordelières. From the Z-stacks, orthogonal view or 3D reconstruction were used in ImageJ. For the 3D reconstruction, cell envelopes were delineated using a semi-automatic method whereby a user-provided coarse initial contour automatically adjusts to the cell wall. Cell surfaces are reconstructed from the piling-up of 2D contours. The GFP–CESA1 punctae were manually segmented. Finally, graphical models displaying the spatial distribution of objects of interest within individual cells are generated and interactively visualized. Algorithm development and 3D model visualization rely on the C++ image and shape libraries and on the Free-D reconstruction software (Andrey and Maurin, CITATION). For all the quantifications, three independent experiments were realised. The S4B or CBM3a signal at the cell plate was quantified (n = 10) using ImageJ. The relative signal intensity was measured and divided by the background relative signal intensity.
