!~ABS~! A functional relationship between monothiol glutaredoxins and BolAs has been unraveled by genomic analyses and in several high-throughput studies. Phylogenetic analyses coupled to transient expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions indicated that, in addition to the sulfurtransferase SufE1, which contains a C-terminal BolA domain, three BolA isoforms exist in Arabidopsis thaliana , BolA1 being plastidial, BolA2 nucleo-cytoplasmic, and BolA4 dual-targeted to mitochondria and plastids. Binary yeast two-hybrid experiments demonstrated that all BolAs and SufE1, via its BolA domain, can interact with all monothiol glutaredoxins. Most interactions between protein couples of the same subcellular compartment have been confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. In vitro experiments indicated that monothiol glutaredoxins could regulate the redox state of BolA2 and SufE1, both proteins possessing a single conserved reactive cysteine. Indeed, a glutathionylated form of SufE1 lost its capacity to activate the cysteine desulfurase, Nfs2, but it is reactivated by plastidial glutaredoxins. Besides, a monomeric glutathionylated form and a dimeric disulfide-bridged form of BolA2 can be preferentially reduced by the nucleo-cytoplasmic GrxS17. These results indicate that the glutaredoxin–BolA interaction occurs in several subcellular compartments and suggest that a redox regulation mechanism, disconnected from their capacity to form iron–sulfur cluster-bridged heterodimers, may be physiologically relevant for BolA2 and SufE1.
!~RES~! In order to establish an accurate classification of BolA proteins that can be used in all organisms, a total of 281 sequences, most of them complete, have been retrieved from prokaryotes (eubacteria, archaea of the halobacteriales, and cyanobacteria) but also from eukaryotes, either photosynthetic (green algae and land plants) or non-photosynthetic (fungi, insects, and mammals). Archaea and cyanobacteria analyzed possess only one BolA isoform whereas other organisms analyzed generally have an expanded family comprising two to four BolA isoforms distributed in three major clades representing three monophyletic groups as revealed by phylogenetic analyses ( CITATION and CITATION ). However, the careful analysis of the protein sequences and properties led us to propose four different classes named BolA1, BolA2, BolA3, and BolA4, based on the classification used for mammalian BolAs ( CITATION ; CITATION ). All organisms analyzed, except archaea and cyanobacteria, possess at least one BolA1 member. Sequences from related genera cluster together, the algal and fungal members forming a single group. The ancestor is likely the bacterial BolA version and some duplication or gene fusion occurred in the green lineage. Duplication apparently occurred independently in Micromonas pusilla , Oryza sativa , and Glycine max , as these are the only organisms analyzed possessing more than one BolA1 isoform. Moreover, fusion proteins between an N-terminal SufE domain and a C-terminal BolA domain named SufE1 and exclusively restricted to some algae and land plants cluster with BolA1 members. This chimeric protein is absent in cyanobacteria and in Prasinophyceae ( Ostreococcus tauri and lucimarinus , M. pusilla CCMP1545 ) but present in Chlorophyceae ( C. reinhardtii , Volvox carteri , Chlorella variabilis NC64A). This suggests that the gene fusion event occurred after the split between Prasinophyceae, an early-diverging class within the green lineage, and Chlorophyceae. BolA2 and BolA3 classes are specific to eukaryote organisms since no ortholog was found in prokaryotes and they likely derive from a single ancestral gene. The BolA2 class is found in all eukaryotes analyzed (algae, fungi, insects, mammals, and land plants) and contains orthologs of the functionally characterized yeast FRA2 protein. They all possess one BolA2 isoform except Arabidopsis lyrata , which has two BolA2 isoforms probably due to a specific and very recent duplication event as A. thaliana possesses only one member. Chlorella and Ostreococcus BolA2 isoforms form an isolated branch in the phylogenetic tree, being more distantly related to other BolA2 members. The BolA3 class is restricted to non-photosynthetic eukaryotes with the exceptions of the two algae: C. reinhardtii and V. carteri . This is not that surprising, as some genes deriving from the last plant–animal common ancestor have been retained in Chlamydomonas and animals but lost in angiosperms ( CITATION ). Interestingly, in addition to a strictly conserved C-terminal histidine (His66, A. thaliana BolA2 numbering) present in all BolAs, proteins of these two classes possess a conserved cysteine in position 29 ( A. thaliana BolA2 numbering), which might have a structurally or catalytically important function. Nevertheless, two major differences in the primary sequence allow distinguishing BolA2 and BolA3 isoforms. In BolA3 sequences, the cysteine is included in a very conserved SGGCG motif and the His is systematically followed by a Gly, whereas, in BolA2, the cysteine-containing motif is more variable and the HG motif is replaced by an HA motif as in BolA1 and BolA4 isoforms. The last class, not defined before, has been called BolA4 and it contains orthologs of E. coli YrbA. BolA4 proteins are only present in archaea (halobacteriales), bacteria, cyanobacteria, and photosynthetic eukaryotes but are absent in all other eukaryotes. The simplest evolutionary hypothesis would be that the YrbA ancestor gene has been conserved in cyanobacteria and then in the whole green lineage and that it has been specifically acquired in halobacteriales. Interestingly, this is the unique BolA present in cyanobacteria and archaea. Among the four proteins containing a BolA domain in A. thaliana , a dual targeting in chloroplasts and mitochondria has been experimentally determined for AtSufE1 ( CITATION ; CITATION ). In order to determine the subcellular localization of other Arabidopsis BolAs, chimeric proteins obtained by fusing the whole sequence of Arabidopsis BolA1, BolA2, and BolA4 to green fluorescent protein (GFP) have been used for transient expression experiments using tobacco leaves ( CITATION ). A clear fluorescence signal for AtBolA2 was detected both in the cytosol and in the nucleus. Concerning AtBolA1, the reporter protein is directed to the chloroplast as indicated by the superimposition of the GFP signal with the chlorophyll auto-fluorescence in merged images. For AtBolA4, two distinct fluorescence signals consistent with a plastidial and mitochondrial dual targeting have been obtained. It is worth mentioning that similar results have been obtained after expression in tobacco mesophyll, epidermal, and guard cells. Though we have to be cautious because overexpression might sometimes lead to mistargeting and BolA2 is a small protein (~10kDa), the nucleo-cytoplasmic localization of AtBolA2 is consistent with the observation that GFP fusions involving the yeast FRA2/BolA2 and human BolA2 orthologs are also found in both compartments ( CITATION ; CITATION ). We next assessed the ability of BolA proteins to interact with Grxs, first using a binary Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid approach ( CITATION ). By comparison with two representatives of class I Grxs, GrxC5, and GrxS12, we found that only class II/CGFS Grxs were able to physically interact with mono-domain BolAs ( CITATION ). Except for the GrxS14/BolA2 couple, all other co-transformed yeast cells were able to grow in the presence of the HIS3 enzyme inhibitor 3-aminotriazol (3AT) up to a concentration of 5mM ( CITATION ), indicating that corresponding interactions are strong. Moreover, it indicates that all CGFS Grxs and BolAs contain the motifs and/or structural arrangement necessary for a physical interaction, regardless of their subcellular compartmentalization or of their domain architecture. As GrxS17 is an atypical protein composed of four different modules, an N-terminal thioredoxin-like domain followed by three CGFS domains, we next analyzed the capacity of each module to interact with BolAs. Whereas the N-terminal Trx domain does not interact by itself with any BolA, we found that the second module of GrxS17 was sufficient to allow interaction with all BolAs ( CITATION ). This suggests that this domain is the one primarily responsible for the observed interactions with BolAs. Then, the interaction of the multi-domain SufE1 protein with class I and II Grxs was explored using a similar approach. Interestingly, an interaction of SufE1 was also observed with all CGFS Grxs ( CITATION , middle panel), but with a higher specificity than that observed with canonical BolAs ( CITATION , right panel). Indeed, when stringency using 3AT was increased, only the interactions with GrxS14 and GrxS17 were maintained. Testing the isolated domains of SufE1, with their putative plastidial and mitochondrial Grx partners, GrxS14, S15 and S16, we observed that only the SufE1 BolA domain of SufE1 was involved in the interaction ( CITATION , right panel). The fact that the SufE1 BolA domain but not the whole SufE1 protein could interact with GrxS15 and GrxS16 at high stringency (5mM 3AT) indicates that the SufE1 SufE domain limited the interaction with the full-length SufE1. Finally, in order to determine whether the active site cysteine of these Grxs is required for the interaction, we tested Grx mutants, namely GrxS14 C35S and GrxS16 C158S . We found that replacing the CGFS redox center by SGFS in GrxS16 weakened Grx/BolA interaction as yeast growth decreased and was even abolished in the presence of 5mM 3AT ( CITATION , upper panels). This indicates that, although the GrxS16 catalytic cysteine is dispensable, its presence reinforces the interaction strength with partner proteins. Conversely, a SGFS mutation in GrxS14 does not seem to affect its interaction with canonical BolA proteins, suggesting that other types of interactions (electrostatic, hydrophobic) might be primarily responsible for GrxS14 interactions with partner proteins. A different situation was observed for interactions involving SufE1 ( CITATION , lower panels). The mutation of the active site cysteine in both GrxS14 and GrxS16 drastically reduced the strength of the interactions, as the yeast cells exhibited a highly reduced (GrxS14/SufE1) or null growth (GrxS16/SufE1) even in the absence of 3AT. Overall, this reveals different behaviors or pattern of interactions of CGFS Grxs towards the different classes of BolAs. The CGFS Grx–BolA interactions were also assayed in Arabidopsis protoplasts by BiFC experiments. For this purpose, pair combinations of constructs producing BolA and Grx proteins fused to half parts of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) were tested regardless of their previously determined subcellular localization (chloroplastic for GrxS14 and S16, nucleo-cytoplasmic for GrxS17, mitochondrial and chloroplastic for GrxS15) or of previous yeast two-hybrid results. A reconstitution of YFP fluorescence, reporting interactions between the fused partners and co-localizing with the chloroplast compartment, was observed when BolA1, BolA4, and SufE1 constructs were independently co-transformed with either GrxS14 ( CITATION – CITATION ) or S16 ( CITATION – CITATION ) constructs. All these results were confirmed using constructs expressing proteins fused to the other half YFP ( CITATION ). Co-transfection of Arabidopsis protoplasts with GrxS15 and BolA4 also led to BiFC and was the only one exhibiting a dual plastidial and mitochondrial pattern ( CITATION and CITATION ). On the other hand, GrxS15/SufE1 co-transfection did not promote fluorescence reconstitution (not shown) whereas GrxS15/BolA1 co-transfection led to very few cells exhibiting fluorescence reconstitution in the chloroplast only ( CITATION )—a pattern that we were unable to confirm with fusion proteins cloned in the alternative orientation, except in one cell ( CITATION ). Hence, we did not consider this interaction as positive. None of the plastidial Grx could reconstitute BiFC when co-expressed with BolA2. GrxS17 was the only Grx allowing the reconstitution of the fluorescence when co-transfected with BolA2, giving rise to a BiFC in the cytosol and in the nucleus ( CITATION ). A similar result was obtained with the alternative cloning orientation ( CITATION ). No fluorescence was obtained when BolA1, BolA4, and SufE1 were assayed with this Grx isoform (not shown). These results confirmed that most of the Grx/BolA and Grx/SufE1 BiFC complexes are formed in vivo, with fluorescent patterns compatible with the subcellular localization of the concerned proteins. The mature form of all BolA proteins, devoid of N-terminal targeting sequences in the case of BolA1, SufE1, and BolA4, have been expressed as recombinant proteins in E. coli . The separation of ‘as purified’ proteins in reducing or non-reducing SDS–PAGE indicated that a significant amount of BolA2 can form a dimer and that the proportion of dimeric protein gradually increased upon storage. Accordingly, mass spectrometry analyses revealed the presence of two protein peaks with molecular masses of 10314.6 and 20627.2Da ( CITATION ). The first peak is consistent with a monomeric protein where the first methionine is cleaved whereas the second peak corresponds to a size compatible with a dimeric BolA2. Upon reduction, a single peak with a molecular mass of 10314.3Da was detected indicating that the dimeric protein contains an intermolecular disulfide bond. Considering that BolA2 possesses a single conserved cysteine residue (Cys29) which seems to be reactive, we analyzed its sensitivity to oxidative conditions. Oxidative treatments of 2 h with glutathione disulfide (GSSG) or nitroso glutathione (GSNO) have been performed on a pre-reduced protein using optimal ratios between protein and oxidizing agent of 1/10 and 1/5, respectively, as determined by dose-dependent response curves (not shown). For each experiment, the BolA2 redox state was analyzed both by mass spectrometry and after thiol alkylation. Indeed, reduced and oxidized forms of BolA2 can be distinguished after alkylation by 2kDa mPEG maleimide and migration on non-reducing SDS–PAGE. As shown in CITATION , both treatments led to BolA2 oxidation. In the presence of GSNO, BolA2 is exclusively detected as a monomeric oxidized form. Accordingly, a single peak of 10619.8Da was obtained ( CITATION ). The mass increment of 305.5Da compared to the molecular mass of the reduced form is consistent with a protein having one glutathione adduct. For GSSG-treated BolA2, two protein peaks, a major one of 10619.7Da and a minor one of 20627.3Da, have been detected, which correspond respectively to a glutathionylated monomer and to a disulfide-bridged dimer ( CITATION ). The formation of dimeric forms only with GSSG might be related to the difference of reactivity compared to GSNO. Indeed, since the reaction with GSSG is slower, some reduced BolA monomers are likely available during the time course of the reaction to react with glutathionylated BolA, promoting the formation of this disulfide-bridged dimer. Among other BolAs, only SufE1 also contains a single conserved cysteine. However, it is located in the SufE1 SufE domain and it is indispensable for the SufE1-dependent activation of Nfs2 activity ( CITATION ). In order to determine whether this observation could prefigure a redox regulation mechanism, the possibility that the cysteine of SufE1 is sensitive to oxidative conditions was also investigated. Whereas an H 2 O 2 treatment has no effect on the protein, an oxidative treatment with a 10-fold excess of GSNO, the best glutathionylation agent in this case, prevented alkylation by mPEG maleimide, indicating that the cysteine is indeed oxidized ( CITATION ). Mass spectrometry analysis revealed the presence of a major protein peak corresponding to a molecular mass of 36070.9Da ( CITATION ). Comparing this molecular mass to that of the untreated recombinant protein (35765.6Da) pointed to a mass increment of 305.3Da for one of the peaks, indicating that the protein is glutathionylated. Altogether, these in vitro experiments demonstrated that BolA2 can undergo different oxidation states being either glutathionylated or forming covalent homodimers, depending on the conditions used and that SufE1 can be glutathionylated. We then investigated the influence of SufE1 glutathionylation on its ability to stimulate Nfs2 activity and its possible regulation by glutaredoxins. Cysteine desulfurase activity is usually assessed by measuring sulfur released from cysteine in the presence of DTT. While DTT is essential for reducing the persulfide formed on the catalytic cysteine of Nfs2, its presence would prevent evaluating the impact of Grxs on a glutathionylated SufE1. Hence, we have established an activity assay where DTT is replaced by the physiological GSH-reducing system composed of NADPH, GR, and GSH. The amount of sulfur released is decreased nearly two-fold compared to the DTT assay ( CITATION ) and we confirmed that SufE1 still stimulates Nfs2 activity in these conditions. We have also determined, by testing isolated SufE1 domains, that this activation is dependent on the SufE1 SufE domain but not the SufE1 BolA domain ( CITATION ). The difference observed between SufE1 and the SufE1 SufE domain may eventually indicate that SufE1 BolA can contribute to protein–protein interactions. However, the difference might simply reflect the instability of the SufE1 SufE domain compared to full-length SufE1. Indeed, the expression and purification of SufE1 SufE were complicated by the fact that the protein was produced in majority in the insoluble fraction and was prone to precipitation upon storage and to aggregation. As expected, the stimulation of Nfs2 activity is strongly reduced, though not completely, in the presence of glutathionylated SufE1 ( CITATION ). The residual activity is assumed to originate from the capacity of GSH alone (i.e. in the absence of Grxs) to slightly deglutathionylate SufE1 over the time-course experiment as shown by the alkylation assay ( CITATION ). Next, we tested the capacity of all known plastidial A. thaliana Grxs to deglutathionylate AtSufE1 by pre-incubating a fully glutathionylated SufE1 with a NADPH/GR/GSH/Grx system ( CITATION ). The measurement of sulfur released and of the SufE1 redox state indicates that GrxC5 and S12 are more efficient than GrxS14, S15, and S16 that only partially reduced and reactivated SufE1. This may be due to the generally lower oxidoreductase activity recorded for monothiol Grxs, at least in the presence of an in vitro GSH-reducing system ( CITATION ). Using the same alkylation procedure, the ability of three cytoplasmic disulfide reductases, GrxC1, GrxS17, and Trxh1, to reduce the glutathionylated or dimeric forms of BolA2 was assessed ( CITATION ). The glutathionylated protein was obtained after a GSNO treatment and the dimeric form was obtained from the ‘as isolated’ protein after separation from the monomer by size-exclusion chromatography. After 15-min reaction, DTT was able to completely reduce the glutathionylated monomeric form but only partially the disulfide bond present in the dimeric form. A NADPH/NTR/Trxh1 system was clearly inefficient for the reduction of any oxidized BolA2 form, since only a negligible fraction of glutathionylated BolA2 was reduced ( CITATION ). GSH alone or in combination with NADPH and GR used to mimic the physiological conditions and to maintain a fully reduced GSH pool can only partially reduce the glutathionylated monomeric form but not at all the dimeric form. Adding either GrxC1 or GrxS17 allowed a full reduction of glutathionylated BolA2. Interestingly, GrxS17 was more efficient than GrxC1 for the reduction of the disulfide-bridged dimer. In order to investigate BolA2 redox properties, the p K a of Cys29 and the midpoint redox potential ( E m ) of both oxidized forms were determined. Using the thiol-cleavable fluorophore PDT-bimane, we have obtained a p K a value of 7.7±0.2 ( CITATION ), indicating that the thiolate ion will be the dominant species at higher pH values, whereas the protonated thiol will be dominant at lower pH values. Besides, the regeneration of oxidized proteins is also driven by thermodynamic properties such as the E m values for disulfide/dithiol couples. An E m value of 287±1 mV was obtained for the dimeric form and a value of 242±1 mV for the glutathionylated form ( CITATION ). The more electronegative redox potential of the intermolecular disulfide bond in the dimer might partly explain why it is less efficiently reduced compared to the glutathione adduct, but other factors as steric hindrance or electrostatic interactions may also play a role as the tested Trx was inefficient in reducing the disulfide bond.
!~MM~! Using BLASTP or TBLASTN, Arabidopsis BolA sequences were used to search against 18 other genomes from photosynthetic organisms available at the Phytozome database ( www.phytozome.net/ ) and at the following websites, for the 26 cyanobacterial genomes ( http://bacteria.kazusa.or.jp/cyanobase/ ), for Ostreococcus lucimarinus (version 2.0) ( http://frylock.jgi-psf.org/Ost9901_3/Ost9901_3.home.html ), Ostreococcus RCC809 (version 2.0) ( http://frylock.jgi-psf.org/OstRCC809_2/OstRCC809_2.home.html ), O. tauri (version 2.0) ( http://frylock.jgi-psf.org/Ostta4/Ostta4.home.html ), C. variabilis NC64A (version 1.0) ( http://frylock.jgi-psf.org/ChlNC64A_1/ChlNC64A_1.home.html ), V. carteri (version 1.0), M. pusilla CCMP1545 ( http://genome.jgi-psf.org/MicpuC2/MicpuC2.home.html ) and against EST databases ( http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi ) for Hordeum vulgare , Panicum virgatum , Picea glauca , Picea sitchensis , Pinus taeda , Saccharum hybrid , Solanum lycopersicum , and Triticum aestivum . Whenever possible, incomplete sequences have been correctly annotated based on available ESTs and manual inspection of the genomic sequences. For non-photosynthetic prokaryote and eukaryote organisms, sequences were retrieved similarly from Genbank at NCBI but using also E. coli YrbA and E. coli and yeast BolA sequences, which are more divergent. All protein sequences and corresponding accession numbers used can be found in the CITATION . The amino acid sequence alignments were done using CLUSTALW and imported into the Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis (MEGA) package version 4.1 ( CITATION ). Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using the neighbor-joining (NJ) method implemented in MEGA, with the pairwise deletion option for handling alignment gaps, and with the Poisson correction model for distance computation. Bootstrap tests were conducted using 1000 replicates. Branch lengths are proportional to phylogenetic distances. The full-length open reading frames including N-terminal extensions were cloned in frame in 5’ of the GFP coding sequence under the control of a double 35S promoter into the Nco I and Bam HI restriction sites of pCK S65C for BolA1 and BolA2 or into the Kpn I and Bam HI restriction sites of pUCAP for BolA4 using primers described in CITATION . Nicotiana benthamiana cells were transfected by bombardment of leaves with tungsten particles coated with plasmid DNA and images were obtained with a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope. For BolA4, co-localization was performed using a pBIN20 plasmid where mCherry is targeted to mitochondria using the yeast CoxIV targeting sequence ( CITATION ). Full-length open reading frames coding for all Grx, BolA, and SufE1 proteins were cloned into both pUC-SPYCE and pUC-SPYNE ( CITATION ) upstream of the C-terminal and N-terminal regions of YFP, respectively, to preserve N-terminal targeting sequences when present. For nucleo-cytoplasmic proteins, GrxS17 and BolA2 were also fused downstream of the C-terminal and N-terminal regions of YFP using pEZS–CL–NY and pEZS–CL–YC BiFC vectors ( CITATION ), in order to test a different cloning orientation. All constructs producing fusion proteins were also assayed in control BiFC experiments after co-transformation with either YFP-N or YFP-C empty vectors. Primers are listed in CITATION . Isolation and PEG-calcium-mediated transfection of Arabidopsis protoplasts by the constructs were as described ( CITATION ). After incubation for 16–24h, YFP fluorescence in Arabidopsis protoplast cells was detected by laser scanning confocal microscopy using a Zeiss LSM510 META. YFP was excited with an argon laser at 514nm and detected at 514–550nm, whereas chlorophyll auto-fluorescence was monitored at 650nm. Zeiss Zen™ 2009 software was used to obtain images with maximum Z-stack intensity projection. Results are representative of three independent bombardment experiments including the analysis of 10–20 cells per transformation event. For each experiment, we checked that the YFP fluorescence restored by Grx/BolA interactions was not overlapping chlorophyll auto-fluorescence ( CITATION ). All experiments were performed in the Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid reporter strain CY306 ( MATα , ura 3 - 52, his 3 - 200, ade 2 - 101, lys 2 - 801, leu 2 - 3, 112, trp 1 - 901, gal 4 - 542, gal 80 - 538, lys2::UAS GAL1 -TATA GAL1 -HIS3 , URA3::UAS GAL4 17MERS(x3) -TATA CYC1 -LacZ , trx 1::KanMX4, trx 2::KanMX4), carrying complete deletions of endogenous TRX1- and TRX2 -encoding genes ( CITATION ). All open reading frames were cloned in both pGADT7 and pGBKT7 vectors (Clontech) using Nco I-, Nde I-, and Bam HI-containing primers ( CITATION ) in order to test binary interactions in both cloning orientations. CY306 cells co-transformed by pGAD and pGBK constructs were grown on minimal YNB medium (0.7% yeast extract w/o amino acids, 2% glucose, 2% agar) with required amino acids (His, Ade, Lys, Ura, Met). Interactions were visualized as cells growing on YNB medium in the absence of histidine. The strength of the interactions was evaluated by challenging growth in the presence of 2 or 5mM 3AT. Images were taken 4 d post-dotting (7 μl per dot at an optical density of 5.10 −2 at 600nm). Three independent transformations per binary assay were performed, of which two to four colonies were assayed. The sequences coding for the presumed mature forms (i.e. devoid of N-terminal targeting sequences) of A. thaliana GrxS14 to S17, BolA1, BolA2, BolA4, SufE1, and Nfs2 were amplified from A. thaliana leaf cDNAs. The sequences coding for BolA and SufE domains of SufE1 ( SufE1 BolA and SufE1 SufE) were also cloned separately. GrxS14, GrxS15, GrxS16, GrxS17, BolA4, and Nfs2 and SufE1 SufE were cloned into the Nde I and Bam HI restriction sites of pET15b, BolA1, and BolA2 into the Nco I and Bam HI restriction sites of pET3d, SufE1 BolA into the Nde I and Bam HI restriction sites of pET12a, and AtSufE1 into the Nde I and Xho I restriction sites of pET28a. Details of primers and N- and C-terminal sequences of each expressed recombinant protein are provided in CITATION . For protein expression, the E. coli BL21(DE3) strain, containing the pSBET plasmid, was co-transformed with the different recombinant pET3d, pET12a, and pET15b plasmids, but pSBET was omitted for expression of pET28a–SufE1. Cultures were successively amplified up to 2.4 L in LB medium at 37°C supplemented with the adequate antibiotics at 50 μg ml −1 (ampicillin is required for pET3d, pET12a, and pET15b, kanamycin for pET28a and pSBET). Protein expression was induced at exponential phase by adding 100 μM isopropyl β-D-thiogalactopyranoside for 4h at 37°C. The cultures were then centrifuged for 15min at 4400 g . The cell pellets were re-suspended in about 20ml of 50mM phosphate pH 8.0, 300mM NaCl, 10mM imidazole for his-tagged proteins, or in TE NaCl buffer (30mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 1mM EDTA, 200mM NaCl) for untagged proteins and the cells were conserved at –20°C. Cell lysis was performed by sonication and the soluble and insoluble fractions were separated by centrifugation for 30min at 27000 g . For his-tagged proteins (BolA4, SufE1, Nfs2, GrxS14, GrxS15, GrxS16, GrxS17, SufE1 SufE), the soluble part was loaded on Ni 2+ affinity columns (Sigma-Aldrich). After extensive washing, the proteins were eluted using a 50mM phosphate pH 8.0, 300mM NaCl, 250mM imidazole buffer. The recombinant proteins were concentrated by ultrafiltration under nitrogen pressure and dialyzed (Amicon, YM10 membrane) and stored in a TE (30mM Tris–HCl pH8, 1mM EDTA) buffer at –20°C. Aerobic purification of untagged proteins (BolA1, BolA2, SufE1 BolA) was carried out in three steps. The soluble fraction was first precipitated by ammonium sulfate from 0% to 40% and then to 80% of the saturation. The 40%–80% ammonium sulfate-precipitated fraction was subjected to gel filtration chromatography (ACA44 gel) equilibrated with TE NaCl buffer. After dialysis of the fractions of interest against TE buffer and concentration, the sample was applied to a DEAE sepharose column equilibrated with TE buffer. Proteins were eluted with a NaCl gradient between 0 and 0.4 M. The purest fractions, as judged by SDS–PAGE analysis, were pooled and NaCl was removed by ultrafiltration dialysis using a YM10 membrane and TE buffer. Untagged Arabidopsis GrxC5 and poplar GrxC1 and S12 were purified as previously described ( CITATION ; Couturier et al., CITATION , CITATION ). Around 10mg of protein were reduced using 40mM DTT for 2h at 25°C followed by desalting on G25 column pre-equilibrated with 30mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0 buffer. Oxidized proteins were prepared by incubating a pre-reduced AtBolA2 with a 10-fold excess GSSG or five-fold excess GSNO and a pre-reduced SufE1 with a 10-fold excess of GSNO for 2h at 25°C before desalting on G25 columns. The protein oxidation state was then analyzed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry analysis as described previously ( CITATION ). For midpoint redox potential and Trx- or Grx-dependent reduction measurements, the glutathionylated form was obtained by the above-described GSNO treatment whereas the disulfide-bridged dimer of BolA2 was obtained from the as purified protein after separation from the monomer by size-exclusion chromatography onto a Superdex S75 10/300 column equilibrated in 30mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 200mM NaCl and connected to an Akta purifier system (GE Healthcare). The protocol was adapted from a procedure employed previously ( CITATION ). Cysteine desulfurase activity was assayed at 25°C in a final volume of 400 μl. Reactions were carried out in 50mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 5mM MgCl 2 100mM NaCl, and 10 μM pyridoxal 5′-phosphate using 2 μM Nfs2 in presence or not of 2 μM SufE1, SufE1 BolA, SufE1 SufE, or BSA used as control. Contrary to previous studies, DTT was replaced by a physiological NADPH/GR/GSH system consisting of 200 μM NADPH, 0.1 units of glutathione reductase from bakers' yeast (Sigma), and 500 μM GSH. The reactions were initiated by adding 500 μM L-cysteine and stopped after 30min by adding 50 μl of 20mM N,N- dimethyl- p -phenylenediamine dihydrochloride (prepared in 7.2 M HCl). The addition of 50 μl of 30mM FeCl 3 (prepared in 1.2 M HCl), followed by a 20-min incubation led to formation of methylene blue, which was then measured at 670nm. Na 2 S (1–100 μM) was used for standard curve calibration. For the regeneration of glutathionylated SufE1, 2 μM was pre-incubated with the NADPH/GR/GSH coupling system with or without 10 μM Grx for 15min at 25°C prior to adding other reaction components. For assessing the Grx- and Trx-dependent reduction of oxidized BolA2, around 10 μM of oxidized BolA2 protein was incubated in 50 μl of 30mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0 buffer for 15min at 25°C either with 100 μM NADPH, 100nM of recombinant A. thaliana NTRB and 10 μM of poplar Trxh1 isoform, or with 100 μM NADPH, 0.1 units GR, 1mM GSH, and 10 μM poplar GrxC1 or Arabidopsis GrxS17. The 50-μl reaction was then precipitated on ice for 30min with one volume of 20% trichloroacetic acid (TCA). After centrifugation (10min at 13000 g ) and washing with 100% acetone, the pellet was re-suspended into 10 μl of 100mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 1% SDS containing 2mM of methoxyl-PEG maleimide of 2kDa (mPEG maleimide) which alkylates free thiol groups. The protein mixture was then separated on non-reducing 15% SDS–PAGE. In the case of the Grx-dependent reduction of glutathionylated SufE1, around 5 μM of oxidized SufE1 protein was incubated in 50 μl of 30mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0 buffer for 5, 10, and 15min at 25°C with 100 μM NADPH, 0.1 units GR, 1mM GSH, and 20 μM poplar GrxS12, Arabidopsis GrxC5, GrxS14, or GrxS16. The reaction mixture was then precipitated with TCA and washed with acetone prior to alkylating free thiol groups with mPEG maleimide. The p K a measurement of BolA2 Cys29 was performed using (2-pyridyl)-dithiobimane at 25°C as described previously ( CITATION ). Reactions were started by the addition of PDT-bimane to a final concentration of 25 μM to 10 μM pre-reduced protein in 500 μl of sodium citrate or phosphate or borate buffers ranging from pH 5.5 to 9.5. Oxidation-reduction titrations using the fluorescence of the adduct formed between protein free thiols and monobromobimane (mBBr) were carried out at ambient temperature in 200 μl HEPES pH 7.0 buffer containing 10 μM of oxidized proteins, either glutathionylated or disulfide-bridged, and defined mixtures of oxidized and reduced DTT or GSH for more positive values to set the ambient potential ( E h ). Total concentration of DTT or GSH was 2mM. After 2-h incubation, mBBr was added and the reaction was carried out in the dark for 20min. The reaction mixture was then precipitated on ice for 30min with one volume of 20% TCA. After centrifugation (10min at 13000 g ) and washing with 100% acetone, the pellet was re-suspended into 400 μl of 100mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 1% SDS. Fluorescence emission of the resulting solution was measured at 472nm after excitation at 380nm. Sequence data from this article can be found using the following AGI locus identifiers for poplar GrxS12 (Potri.002G254100) and for A. thaliana GrxS14 (At3g54900), GrxS15 (At3g15660), GrxS16 (At2g38270), GrxS17 (At4g04950), BolA1 (At1g55805), BolA2 (At5g09830), BolA4 (At5g17560), SufE1 (At4g26500), Nfs2 (At1g08490), and GrxC5 (At4g28730).
