!~ABS~! Exposure to short-term cold stress delays flowering by activating the floral repressor FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) in Arabidopsis thaliana. The cold signaling attenuator HIGH EXPRESSION OF OSMOTICALLY RESPONSIVE GENE1 (HOS1) negatively regulates cold responses. Notably, HOS1-deficient mutants exhibit early flowering, and FLC expression is suppressed in the mutants. However, it remains unknown how HOS1 regulates FLC expression. Here, we show that HOS1 induces FLC expression by antagonizing the actions of FVE and its interacting partner histone deacetylase 6 (HDA6) under short-term cold stress. HOS1 binds to FLC chromatin in an FVE-dependent manner, and FVE is essential for the HOS1-mediated activation of FLC transcription. HOS1 also interacts with HDA6 and inhibits the binding of HDA6 to FLC chromatin. Intermittent cold treatments induce FLC expression by activating HOS1, which attenuates the activity of HDA6 in silencing FLC chromatin, and the effects of intermittent cold are diminished in hos1 and fve mutants. These observations indicate that HOS1 acts as a chromatin remodeling factor for FLC regulation under short-term cold stress.
!~RES~! To elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which HOS1 regulates FLC expression, we isolated two mutant alleles of the HOS1 gene in Columbia-0 (Col-0) background (Figure 1A). Both the hos1-3 and hos1-5 loss-of-function mutants exhibited early flowering under long days (LDs) (Figure 1B), as observed with the hos1-1 mutant in C24 background (CITATION; CITATION). The loss-of-function mutants initiated flowering at a total leaf number of 8, whereas Col-0 plants initiated flowering at a total leaf number of 14 under our assay conditions. In addition, FLC expression was reduced in the mutants but elevated approximately twofold in HOS1-overexpressing transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), showing that HOS1 is correlated with FLC expression. [[FIGURE]] FLC expression is epigenetically regulated in response to various endogenous and environmental cues (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore performed chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays on FLC chromatin using five sets of primer pairs covering the FLC genomic DNA (Figure 1C). It was found that H3 acetylation (H3Ac) and H3K4 trimethylation, which are marks for active gene expression (CITATION; CITATION), were reduced in the hos1-3 mutant (Figures 1D and 1E). By contrast, H3K27Me3, which is a repressive chromatin mark (CITATION; CITATION), was elevated in the mutant (Figure 1F), which is consistent with the low-level expression of FLC in the mutant. These observations suggest that HOS1 regulates FLC transcription at the chromatin level. Our data suggested that HOS1 would bind directly to FLC chromatin. To examine this, we performed ChIP assays with or without cold treatments, using transgenic plants overexpressing the HOS1-MYC gene fusion (HOS1-ox), in which the MYC-coding sequence was fused in frame to the 3′ end of the HOS1 gene and driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The results showed that HOS1 binds to FLC chromatin primarily in the P1, P2, and P3 sequence regions and HOS1 binding is dramatically elevated at 4°C (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] Because the ectopic expression of the HOS1 gene may cause potential artifacts, we generated a HOS1-specific antibody for the ChIP assays. The epitope for the antibody is a peptide sequence that differs from any other sequence of annotated Arabidopsis proteins (Figure 2B). To verify the specificity of the anti-HOS1 antibody, we performed protein gel blot analysis of the HOS1-ox transgenic plants. Transgenic plants overexpressing the MYC-FCA gene fusion (FCA-ox) were used as control (CITATION). Using the anti-MYC antibody, HOS1 and FCA proteins were detected in the transgenic plants. However, protein gel blot analysis using the anti-HOS1 antibody showed that HOS1 proteins were detected in both the HOS1-ox and FCA-ox transgenic plants, whereas FCA proteins were not detected (see Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental References 1 online). In addition, HOS1 proteins were not detected in the hos1-3 plants (Figure 2B), showing that the anti-HOS1 antibody detects specifically HOS1 proteins. Next, we conducted ChIP assays using the HOS1-specific antibody with cold-treated plants. The results showed that the HOS1 proteins were enriched in the P1, P2, and P3 sequence regions in the cold-treated plants (Figure 2C), as observed in Figure 2A. To further examine the HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin, the MYC-coding sequence was fused in frame to the 3′end of the HOS1 gene with the native promoter sequence consisting of ∼2.8 kb upstream of the transcription start site (CITATION), and the fusion construct was transformed into Col-0 plants. ChIP–quantitative PCR (qPCR) assays of the transgenic plants revealed that HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin was detectably elevated in the cold-treated plants (Figure 2D), confirming that HOS1 binds directly to FLC chromatin in planta. We also examined whether the cold induction of HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin is associated with FLC expression. The hos1-3 mutant was treated with intermittent cold, and the FLC expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Although FLC expression was induced in Col-0 plants after intermittent cold treatments, the inductive effects of intermittent cold disappeared in the hos1-3 mutant (Figure 2E). Consistent with this observation, flowering initiation was not delayed in the hos1-3 and hos1-5 mutants treated with intermittent cold, as observed in the null allele of the FLC gene (Figure 2F; CITATION; CITATION). These observations indicate that the HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin induces FLC expression under short-term cold stress. We next determined how HOS1 regulates FLC expression. HOS1 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that triggers the degradation of the ICE1 protein through the 26S proteasome pathway (CITATION). Therefore, one possibility is that HOS1 targets the negative regulator(s) of FLC expression. We first examined whether HOS1 interacts with the components of the autonomous flowering pathway that negatively regulate FLC expression (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that HOS1 interacts with FVE (Figure 3A). By contrast, no obvious interactions were detected between HOS1 and other components. To determine the protein domains responsible for the HOS1–FVE interactions, we generated several deletions of the HOS1 and FVE proteins (Figure 3B), and the deletions were coexpressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH109 cells. We found that the C-terminal region of the HOS1 protein, covering residues 457 to 927, is responsible for the interaction between HOS1 and ICE1 (CITATION), and the C-terminal region of the FVE protein (residues 154 to 507), containing a series of WD40 domains, mediates the HOS1–FVE interaction (Figures 3C and 3D). The HOS1-FVE interaction was also verified by in vitro pull-down assays using a recombinant MBP-FVE fusion protein prepared in Escherichia coli cells and using in vitro–translated 35S-labeled HOS1 polypeptides (Figure 3E). [[FIGURE]] To test whether HOS1 interacts with FVE in vivo, coimmunoprecipitation assays were performed using transgenic plants overexpressing a FVE-MYC gene fusion (FVE-ox), in which the MYC-coding sequence was fused in frame to the 3′ end of the FVE gene under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Total protein extracts were immunoprecipitated using an anti-MYC antibody, and the precipitated protein complexes were analyzed immunologically using an anti-MYC or anti-HOS1 antibody. Whereas a band having the expected size of the HOS1 protein was detected in the protein extracts of the FVE-ox transgenic plants, no such band was detected in the extracts of control plants (Figure 3F), indicating that HOS1 interacts with FVE in vivo. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays were also employed to examine the HOS1-FVE interaction in planta. The HOS1 gene sequence fused in frame to the 5′ end of a gene sequence encoding the C-terminal half of yellow fluorescent protein (HOS1-YFPC) and the FVE gene sequence fused in frame to the 3′ end of a gene sequence encoding the N-terminal half of YFP (YFPN-FVE) were transiently coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. It was found that HOS1 interacts with FVE in the nucleus (Figure 3G), where chromatin modifications occur (CITATION; CITATION). FVE interacts with DAMAGED DNA BINDING1 (DDB1) proteins, which are core subunits of the E3 ligase complex containing CULLIN4 (CUL4), via the Trp-Asp-X-Arg motif in the C-terminal region of FVE (CITATION). We therefore examined whether the Trp-Asp-X-Arg motif is required for the HOS1–FVE interaction. The Arg (R) residue in the Trp-Asp-X-Arg motif was mutated to a His (H) residue (R323H) (see Supplemental Figure 3A online), a mutation known to strongly reduce the FVE–DDB1 interaction (CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that the R323H mutation does not disrupt the HOS1–FVE interaction (see Supplemental Figure 3B online), indicating that the HOS1–FVE interaction is structurally different from the FVE–DDB1 interaction. FVE regulates FLC expression at the chromatin level (CITATION; CITATION). We found that HOS1 interacts with FVE and regulates FLC expression by binding to FLC chromatin. To study how HOS1 is functionally linked with FVE in the chromatin regulation of FLC expression, we crossed the early-flowering hos1-3 mutant with the late-flowering FVE-deficient fve-4 mutant to produce an fve hos1 double mutant and examined the flowering phenotypes of the double mutants. The fve hos1 double mutant flowered later than the hos1-3 mutant (see Supplemental Figures 4A and 4B online). Consistent with the flowering phenotypes, the levels of FLC mRNA were significantly higher in the double mutant than in the hos1-3 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). In addition, ChIP assays of FLC chromatin revealed that the level of H3Ac in the double mutant was similar to that in the fve-4 mutant but markedly higher than that in the hos1-3 mutant (Figure 4A). These observations show that the HOS1-mediated transcriptional regulation of FLC expression is at least in part mediated by FVE. [[FIGURE]] We next examined whether HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin is influenced by FVE. ChIP-qPCR assays using an anti-HOS1 antibody revealed that HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin is reduced by ∼50% in the fve-4 mutant (Figure 4B), indicating that FVE is required for the efficient binding of HOS1 to FLC chromatin. The level of FLC mRNA in the fve-4 mutant was comparable to that in the fve hos1 double mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). However, the double mutant flowered earlier than the fve-4 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4B online), suggesting that HOS1 regulation of flowering time does not entirely depend on FLC gene expression (see Discussion). Under cold stress, nuclear-localized HOS1 proteins ubiquitinates the ICE1 transcription factor, which is then degraded through the proteasome-mediated pathway (CITATION). We found that HOS1 interacts with FVE, suggesting that HOS1 may ubiquitinate FVE. We first examined whether the stability of the FVE protein is altered by cold treatments. The FVE-ox transgenic plants were exposed to 4°C, and total protein extracts were prepared for protein gel blot analysis. It was found that the levels of FVE protein were uninfluenced by cold treatments (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). We next performed in vivo ubiquitination assays. The ICE1 protein was also included in the assays for comparison. Although a high molecular weight polypeptide band corresponding to the polyubiquitinated form of the ICE1-MYC fusion was detected in the cold-treated transgenic plants overexpressing the ICE1-MYC gene fusion, no polyubiquitinated forms of the FVE-MYC fusion was detected in the cold-treated FVE-ox transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). These observations indicate that FVE is not ubiquitinated by HOS1 under cold stress. FVE binds to FLC chromatin (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore performed ChIP assays to examine whether cold treatments influence the binding of FVE to FLC chromatin. Col-0 plants and FVE-ox transgenic plants were cold treated, and chromatin preparations were subjected to ChIP assays using the primer pairs employed in the ChIP assays to study the binding of HOS1 to FLC chromatin (Figure 1C). We found that the cold treatments did not affect the FVE binding to FLC chromatin (see Supplemental Figure 5C online), showing that the binding of FVE to FLC chromatin was not influenced by HOS1-mediated cold stress signals. FVE acts as an integral component of multiple chromatin-modifying complexes that mediate transcriptional repression (CITATION; CITATION). FVE associates with HDA6 to form protein complexes that bind to FLC chromatin, leading to transcriptional silencing by histone deacetylation (CITATION). Our data indicate that HOS1 binding to FLC chromatin is mediated by FVE. We therefore postulated that HOS1 interacts with HDA6 and other HDAC enzymes to modulate their association with FLC chromatin. We first employed trichostatin A (TSA), a potent inhibitor of class I and II mammalian HDACs (CITATION; CITATION), to examine whether HDAC activity is related to the HOS1 regulation of FLC expression. The levels of FLC mRNA were examined in plants grown for 10 d on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS)–agar plates containing 0.5 μM TSA. Notably, the low level of FLC expression in the hos1 mutants was recovered to a level comparable to that observed in Col-0 plants after TSA treatments (Figure 5A), indicating that the HDACs are involved in the HOS1-mediated activation of FLC expression. [[FIGURE]] We next performed yeast two-hybrid assays to examine whether HOS1 interacts directly with HDAC proteins. Of the HDACs assayed, HDA6 and HDA15 interacted strongly with both FVE and HOS1 (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online). The assays using truncated HOS1 forms revealed that the HOS1–HDAC interactions occurred via the C-terminal region of HOS1 (Figure 5B), like the HOS1–FVE interaction (Figures 3B and 3C). HDA5 and HDA9 also interacted moderately with FVE and HOS1 in yeast cells (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online). The interactions of HDA6 and HDA15 with FVE and HOS1 were also examined by in vitro pull-down assays using in vitro–translated, 35S-labeled HDAC polypeptides and recombinant MBP-FVE or MBP-HOS1 fusion proteins. HDA6 and HDA15 interacted with both FVE and HOS1 (Figure 5C), consistent with the results obtained with yeast cells. We conducted BiFC assays using Arabidopsis protoplasts to examine whether the interactions occur in vivo. Strong reconstituted YFP signals were detected in the nuclei of cells coexpressing the YFPN-FVE and HDAC-YFPC fusions as well as the YFPN-HOS1 and HDAC-YFPC fusions (Figure 5D), demonstrating that the interactions of HDA6 and HDA15 with FVE and HOS1 occur in the nucleus. Coimmunoprecipitation assays were also employed to confirm the in vivo interactions of FVE and HOS1 with HDA6 using total proteins extracted from FVE-ox or HOS1pro:HOS1-MYC transgenic plants. We found that HDA6 proteins were immunoprecipitated by both FVE- and HOS1-MYC proteins coupled with an anti-MYC antibody (Figures 6E and 6F). However, no HDA6 protein was immunoprecipitated from total proteins extracted from control plants expressing only MYC. These observations demonstrate that both FVE and HOS1 physically interact with HDA6 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] We found that HOS1 interacts with HDA6, an interacting partner of FVE in the repression of the FLC gene (CITATION). Therefore, a question was whether HOS1 ubiquitinates HDA6. We examined whether HDA6 is degraded by the HOS1-mediated ubiquitination pathway using transgenic plants overexpressing HDA6-MYC gene fusions (HDA6-ox). The transgenic plants were exposed to 4°C, and the levels of HDA6-MYC fusion protein were analyzed immunologically using an anti-MYC antibody. The results showed that the levels of HDA6 protein were not influenced by cold treatments (Figure 6A). In addition, no visible ubiquitination of HDA6 was detected under identical conditions (Figure 6B), indicating that HOS1-mediated cold stress signals do not influence the stability of the HDA6 protein. Both FVE and HDA6 bind to FLC chromatin (CITATION; CITATION). We found that HOS1 also binds directly to FLC chromatin and interacts with FVE and HDA6. Therefore, one possibility was that HOS1 interfered with the binding of HDA6 to FLC chromatin. ChIP assays using the HDA6-ox transgenic plants revealed that HDA6 binds to FLC chromatin in the P1, P2, and P3 sequence regions of FLC genomic DNA (Figure 6C), to which HOS1 also binds (Figures 2A, 2C, and 2D), suggesting that HOS1 may compete with HDA6 for binding to FLC chromatin. To examine this possibility, we transformed the HDA6-MYC gene fusion into Col-0 plants and the hos1-3 and fve-4 mutants. We identified several HDA6-ox transgenic plants suitable for ChIP assays, in which the levels of HDA6 mRNA and HDA6 protein in both the mutant backgrounds were similar to those in Col-0 background (Figure 6D, left and right panels, respectively). We next conducted ChIP assays of the binding of HDA6 to FLC chromatin using the HDA6-ox transgenic plants in different genetic backgrounds. At normal temperatures, the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin was lower in the fve-4 background but higher in the hos1-3 background compared with that in Col-0 background (Figure 6E). These results are consistent with the high expression of FLC and delayed flowering in the fve-4 mutant as well as the low expression of FLC and accelerated flowering in the hos1 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4C online). Under cold stress, the association of HDA6 with FLC chromatin decreased by ∼50% in Col-0 background (Figure 6E). This result is consistent with the elevated FLC expression and delayed flowering under cold stress (Figures 2E and 2F). However, the effects of cold stress on the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin were largely dampened in both the hos1-3 and fve-4 mutant backgrounds. ChIP assays using a HDA6-specific antibody also showed that the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin was not affected by cold treatments in the hos1-3 and fve-4 mutant backgrounds (CITATION; Figure 6F). ChIP assays of the binding of HDA6 to FLC chromatin were also performed using chromatin extracts prepared from HOS1-ox transgenic plants. The HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin was reduced by ∼50% in the HOS1-ox transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). By contrast, the binding of HOS1 to FLC chromatin was unaffected in the axe1-5 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Altogether, these observations unequivocally demonstrate that cold stress signals influence the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin via FVE and HOS1. It is also evident that HOS1 suppresses the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin Our data suggested that HDA6 is involved in the regulation of flowering time via HOS1-mediated cold signaling. To examine this, the axe1-5 mutant was treated with intermittent cold until flowering. Intermittent cold treatments delayed flowering by ∼60% in Col-0 plants but only 20% in the axe1-5 mutant (Figure 6G), showing that the effects of cold stress on the HDA6 binding to FLC chromatin is physiologically important in flowering time control. By contrast, the effects of intermittent cold on flowering initiation were similar in the hda15-1 mutant and Col-0 plants, showing that the HDA15 function appears somewhat different from that of HDA6 in flowering time control under cold stress.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana lines used were in Col-0 background. The hos1-3 (SALK-069312), hos1-5 (SAIL-1211-D02), axe1-5 (CITATION), and hda15-1 (SALK-004027) mutants were isolated from a pool of T-DNA insertion lines deposited in the ABRC (Ohio State University). The fve-4 and flc-3 mutants have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). To produce transgenic plants overexpressing the HOS1, FVE, HDA6, HDA15, and ICE1 genes, six copies of the MYC-coding sequence were fused in frame to the 3′ ends of the genes and driven by the CaMV 35S promoter using the myc-pBA vector (CITATION), resulting in HOS1-ox, FVE-ox, HDA6-ox, HDA15-ox, and ICE1-ox plants, respectively. To generate HOS1pro:HOS1-MYC transgenic plants, a HOS1 genomic fragment, which contains a 2.8-kb promoter sequence upstream of the transcription start site (CITATION), was subcloned into the modified myc-pBA vector, in which the CaMV 35S promoter was deleted. The PCR primers used for subcloning are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated Arabidopsis transformation was performed according to a modified floral dip method (CITATION). Plants were grown in soil or on MS-agar plates in a controlled culture room at 23°C under LDs (16-h-light and 8-h-dark cycles). Plants were grown in soil at either 23 or 4°C under LDs until flowering. The flowering times were determined by counting the number of rosette and cauline leaves at bolting. Fifteen to 20 plants were counted and averaged for each measurement. For intermittent cold treatments, plants were placed at 4°C for 6 h at dawn until flowering. Gene transcript levels were examined by either RT-PCR or qRT-PCR. RT-PCR reactions were performed using the Applied Biosystems 2720 Thermal Cycler to verify absence of HOS1 gene expression in the hos1-3 and hos1-5 mutants. qRT-PCR reactions were performed in 96-well blocks with the Applied Biosystems 7500 real-time PCR system using the SYBR Green I master mix in a reaction volume of 20 μL. All qRT-PCR assays were performed in biological triplicates using total RNA samples extracted from three independent plant materials treated under identical conditions and gene-specific primer pairs listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. RNA preparation, data processing, and determination of reaction specificities were performed as described previously (CITATION). The HOS1-specific antibody was generated against a synthetic peptide covering residues 796 to 810 (GKRTEESSPEVNVDR) of the Arabidopsis HOS1 protein. The synthetic peptide was HPLC purified, conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanine, and injected into rabbits over an 8-week period (one primary injection and three boosting injections), as described previously (CITATION). Two rabbits were used for immunization (AbClon). The antiserum obtained was affinity purified to remove nonspecific antibodies, increasing sensitivity and reducing background, and used for ChIP assays. The FVE-, HDA6-, and HDA15-MYC gene fusions were overexpressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in Col-0 plants. The resultant FVE-ox, HDA6-ox, and HDA15-ox transgenic plants were grown on MS-agar for 10 d and exposed to cold (4°C) for appropriate time periods. Whole plants were harvested for preparation of total protein extracts. Total proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a Millipore Immobilon-P membrane, and immunological analysis was performed to detect the fusion proteins using an anti-MYC antibody at 1:2000 dilution (Millipore). In vivo detection of ubiquitinated proteins was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Ten-day-old transgenic plants overexpressing the FVE-, HDA6-, HDA15-, and ICE1-MYC gene fusions were pretreated with 50 μM MG132 (Sigma-Aldrich), a potent 26S proteasome–specific inhibitor (CITATION), for 24 h and then exposed to cold (4°C) for 15 h. The total protein extract was immunoprecipitated using an anti-MYC antibody coupled to agarose beads and analyzed immunologically using anti-MYC and antiubiquitin antibodies. ChIP assays were performed using 10- or 14-d-old plants grown on MS-agar plates under LDs. Processing of plant materials and qPCR were performed as described previously (CITATION). The PCR primers for qPCR were designed to amplify DNA fragments of 100 to 200 bp and listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. An eIF4A DNA fragment was used for normalization. To validate the ChIP-qPCR runs in the P1 to P5 sequence regions of FLC gene, we sequenced the ChIP-qPCR products (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online) using an Applied Biosystems 3730xl DNA analyzer at the National Instrumentation Center for Environmental Management (Seoul National University). Protein–protein interactions were examined by yeast two-hybrid assays using the BD Matchmaker system (Clontech) and in vitro pull-down assays, as described previously (CITATION). To evaluate whether the protein–protein interactions occur in vivo, BiFC assays were performed using Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts, as described previously (CITATION). Coimmunoprecipitation assays were also employed for the same purpose, as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown for 10 d on MS-agar plates containing 0.5 μM TSA, a potent inhibitor of class I and II mammalian HDACs (CITATION; CITATION). Whole plants were used for extraction of total RNA. The levels of FLC mRNA were examined by qRT-PCR. The statistical significance between two means of measurements was determined using a Student’s t test with P values < 0.01. Sequence data from this article can be obtained from the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative databases under the following accession numbers: eIF4A (At3g13920), FLC (At5g10140), FVE (At2g19520), HDA6 (At5g63110), HDA15 (At3g18520), HOS1 (At2g39810), and ICE1 (At3g26744). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. HOS1 Is Correlated with FLC Expression. Supplemental Figure 2. Examination of Anti-HOS1 Antibody Specificity by Protein Gel Blot Assays. Supplemental Figure 3. The Trp-Asp-X-Arg Motif Is Not Required for HOS1–FVE Interactions. Supplemental Figure 4. FLC Expression in fve hos1 Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 5. Cold Stress Does Not Influence FVE Protein Stability. Supplemental Figure 6. Interactions of FVE and HOS1 with Histone Deacetylases in Yeast Cells. Supplemental Figure 7. Binding of HDA6 to FLC Chromatin in the HOS1-ox Transgenic Plant. Supplemental Figure 8. HOS1 Binding to FLC Chromatin in the axe1-5 Mutant. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in qRT-PCR, ChIP-qPCR, and Gene Cloning. Supplemental Data Set 1. Sequencing Analysis of ChIP-qPCR Products. Supplemental References 1. References for Supplemental Figures.
