!~ABS~! Plant cortical microtubule arrays determine the cell wall deposition pattern and proper cell shape and function. Although various microtubule-associated proteins regulate the cortical microtubule array, the mechanisms underlying marked rearrangement of cortical microtubules during xylem differentiation are not fully understood. Here, we show that local Rho of Plant (ROP) GTPase signaling targets an Arabidopsis thaliana kinesin-13 protein, Kinesin-13A, to cortical microtubules to establish distinct patterns of secondary cell wall formation in xylem cells. Kinesin-13A was preferentially localized with cortical microtubules in secondary cell wall pits, areas where cortical microtubules are depolymerized to prevent cell wall deposition. This localization of Kinesin-13A required the presence of the activated ROP GTPase, MICROTUBULE DEPLETION DOMAIN1 (MIDD1) protein, and cortical microtubules. Knockdown of Kinesin-13A resulted in the formation of smaller secondary wall pits, while overexpression of Kinesin-13A enlarged their surface area. Kinesin-13A alone could depolymerize microtubules in vitro; however, both MIDD1 and Kinesin-13A were required for the depolymerization of cortical microtubules in vivo. These results indicate that Kinesin-13A regulates the formation of secondary wall pits by promoting cortical microtubule depolymerization via the ROP-MIDD1 pathway.
!~RES~! To examine the subcellular localization of Kinesin-13A in differentiating xylem cells, pKinesin-13A:GFP-Kinesin-13A was introduced into cultured Arabidopsis cells harboring inducible VASCULAR-RELATED NO APICAL MERISTEM/ARABIDOPSIS TRANSCRIPTION ACTIVATION FACTOR/CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON-DOMAIN6 (VND6), which promotes metaxylem vessel cell differentiation (CITATION). Punctuated green fluorescent protein (GFP) signals were detected preferentially in the secondary cell wall pits of differentiating metaxylem vessel cells (Figures 1A and 1B; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). A projection of time-lapse images with intensity profiling confirmed the accumulation of Kinesin-13A in secondary cell wall pits (Figure 1C). Double labeling experiments and projection of time-lapse images revealed that Kinesin-13A colocalized with cortical microtubules in these regions (Figures 2A and 2B). A kymograph analysis, in which the behavior of Kinesin-13A along the microtubule over time is sequentially displayed side-by-side, revealed that Kinesin-13A was associated with microtubules in secondary wall pits (Figures 2C and 2D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The localization and dynamics of Kinesin-13A identified here are similar to those of MIDD1 (CITATION); therefore, the interaction between these proteins was examined. Cointroduction of Kinesin-13A and MIDD1 into Arabidopsis cells caused depolymerization of microtubules (see below); therefore, we used a truncated Kinsein-13A (Kinsein-13AΔM) that lacked the N-terminal region containing the motor domain but included the C-terminal MIDD1-interacting coiled-coil domain (CITATION). As expected, MIDD1 and Kinesin-13AΔM colocalized in the membrane domains underlying secondary cell wall pits (Figure 3A). To determine whether Kinesin-13A interacts with MIDD1 directly in these regions, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was used. MIDD1 and Kinesein-13AΔM were fused with the C-terminal (cYFP) and N-terminal (nYFP) regions of yellow fluorescent protein, respectively, and then expressed in the leaf epidermis of Nicotiana benthamiana. No fluorescent signals were detected following expression of either construct alone, but a strong signal was generated following coexpression of cYFP-MIDD1 and nYFP-Kinesein-13AΔM, indicating that Kinesin-13A interacts with MIDD1 in vivo (Figure 3B). When these constructs were introduced into inducible Arabidopsis xylem cells, the YFP fluorescent signal did not overlap with that of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA)–labeled secondary cell walls, indicating that Kinesin-13A interacts directly with MIDD1 in secondary cell wall pits (Figure 3C). We next examined the MIDD1 dependency of Kinesin-13A localization. GFP-Kinesin-13AΔM was localized to the cytoplasm in 43 of 49 MIDD-knockdown (midd1-kd) cells (CITATION), while it localized to filamentous structures, which are microtubules, in 30 of 34 control cells (Figure 3D). The remaining six cells showed the localization along microtubules as observed in control cells. This suggests that the localization of Kinesin-13A along microtubules in secondary cell wall pits is dependent upon MIDD1. On the other hand, in cells coexpressing tagRED FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (tagRFP)-ROP11Q66L, a constitutively active form of ROP11 that induces broad activation of ROP11, which causes the microtubule localization of MIDD1 broadly (CITATION), Kinesein-13AΔM was broadly localized to microtubules in 28 of 29 observed cells (Figure 3D). These results suggest that Kinesin-13A is associated with the active ROP-MIDD1 complex. [[FIGURE]] To examine the role of Kinesin-13A in secondary cell wall formation, Kinesin-13A was knocked down by RNA interference. We introduced 35S:Kinesin-13A-RNA interference (RNAi)/LexA:GFP into VND6-inducible cultured cells; this construct contains an inverted repeat of the Kinesin-13A fragment and an additional GFP expression cassette that enables identification of transformed cells without cell selection using antibiotics. We used 35S:β-glucuronidase (GUS)-RNAi/LexA:GFP as a control. GFP-positive cells were collected by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and Kinesin-13A mRNA levels were measured by quantitative RT-PCR. Kinesin-13A mRNA levels were similar in GFP-positive and GFP-negative cells from the 35S:GUS-RNAi/LexA:GFP–introduced culture; however, in the 35S:Kinesin-13A-RNAi/LexA:GFP–introduced culture, the Kinesin-13A mRNA levels in GFP-positive cells were significantly lower than those in GFP-negative cells (Figure 4A). In accordance with the reduced levels of Kinesin-13A mRNA, Kinesin-13A–knockdown cells showed smaller secondary cell wall pits than control cells (Figures 4B and 4C). Similarly, an Arabidopsis line (SALK_104697) in which T-DNA was inserted into an exon of the Kinesin-13A gene (designated kinesin-13a) (Figures 4D and 4E) had undetectable levels of Kinsein-13A and smaller pits in the secondary cell walls of root metaxylem vessels than wild-type plants (Figures 4F and 4G). Introduction of pKinesin-13A:GFP-Kinesin-13A complemented the phenotype of reduced pit size, confirming the role of Kinesin-13A in secondary cell wall pit expansion. However, GFP fluorescence was not detected clearly in the complemented plants, probably as a result of low expression level of Kinesin-13A. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the effect of Kinesin-13A overexpression on secondary cell wall pit size. When Kinesin-13A expression was induced by treating Arabidopsis plants harboring LexA:GFP-Kinesin-13A with 2 μM estradiol for 2 d, the root metaxylem vessels produced abnormally large secondary cell wall pits and protoxylem vessels exhibited slightly wider secondary cell wall bundles than wild-type protoxylem vessels (Figure 5A). To examine cortical microtubule organization in cells overexpressing Kinesin-13A in vivo, LexA:GFP-Kinesin-13A was introduced into plants harboring 35S:tagRFP-TUB6 (for β-6 TUBULIN). The parallel cortical microtubules in root epidermal cells were completely disrupted 24 h after the induction of GFP-Kinesin-13A (Figure 5B). Consistent with this, long-term expression of GFP-Kinesin-13A caused the roots to swell (Figure 5C) as a result of microtubule disruption. These results suggest that Kinesin-13A enlarges secondary cell wall pits through microtubule disassembly. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether Kinesin-13A shows microtubule depolymerizing activity, an in vitro microtubule depolymerization assay (CITATION) was performed. Glutathione S-transferase (GST)–tagged Kinesein-13A and MIDD1 were overexpressed in Escherichia coli and then purified. As a positive control, GST-hsKif2A, a human kinesin-13 protein that can induce microtubule disassembly (CITATION), was also prepared. The purified GST-tagged proteins were incubated with taxol-stabilized microtubules containing fluorescein-tagged tubulin in a buffer supplemented with ATP or adenylyl imidodiphosphate (AMPPNP), a nonhydrolyzable analog of ATP. Microtubule depolymerization was then observed under a fluorescence microscope. In the presence of ATP, both GST-hsKif2A and GST-Kinesin-13A disrupted microtubules, while GST-MIDD1 did not; however, in the presence of AMPPNP, GST-Kinesin-13A could not induce depolymerization (Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] Microtubule depolymerization was then examined further using biochemical methods. The samples were ultracentrifuged and then separated by SDS-PAGE; in this experiment, the supernatant and pellet fractions represented tubulin dimers and microtubule polymers, respectively. In the presence of ATP, the addition of GST-hsKif2A or GST-Kinesin-13A markedly increased the amount of tubulin in the supernatant and decreased the amount of tubulin in the microtubule pellet (Figure 6B). These effects were not seen when ATP was replaced with AMPPNP (Figure 6B), indicating that GST-Kinesin-13A possesses ATP-dependent microtubule depolymerization activity. Although our experiments revealed that Kinsein-13A promotes microtubule depolymerization both in vitro and in vivo, previous articles reported that Kinesin-13A does not localize to cortical microtubules (CITATION; CITATION). We hypothesized that this apparent discrepancy is attributable to the absence or presence of MIDD1, which may contribute to the targeting of Kinesin-13a to microtubules in vivo. To investigate this hypothesis, the localization of Kinesin-13A and cortical microtubule density were examined by introducing LexA:tagRFP-Kinesin-13A and 35S:GFP-TUB6 into an Arabidopsis nonxylem cell line, which does not express MIDD1 (CITATION). Kinesin-13A was not localized to cortical microtubules and did not induce cortical microtubule depolymerization in nonxylem cells (Figures 7A and 7E). Instead, Kinesin-13A was localized to punctate structures, which is consistent with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, Kinesin-13AΔM was localized to the cytoplasm (Figure 7B). Next, to enable coexpression of MIDD1 and Kinesin-13A, LexA:tagRFP-Kinesin-13A was introduced into a newly established stable transgenic cell line harboring LexA:MIDD1. Coexpression of tagRFP-Kinesin-13A and MIDD1 led to a marked reduction in the number of cortical microtubules (Figures 7C and 7E), indicating that Kinesin-13A requires MIDD1 to depolymerize microtubules in vivo. Induction of MIDD1 shifted the localization of Kinesin-13AΔM from the cytoplasm (Figure 7B) to the cortical microtubules (Figure 7D). Although coexpression of GFP-MIDD1 and tagRFP-Kinesin-13A caused loss of cortical microtubules, these proteins were completely colocalized in structures reminiscent of aggregated microtubules (Figure 8A). Coexpression of GFP-MIDD1 and tagRFP-Kinesin-13AΔM did not affect cortical microtubules, but these two proteins were also colocalized along cortical microtubules (Figure 8B). These results suggest that MIDD1 targets Kinesin-13A to cortical microtubules and is therefore required for its microtubule depolymerization activity. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 suspension cells and its derivative strains, the VND6-inducible line (CITATION) and VND6-inducible/MIDD1-RNAi line (CITATION), were cultured as described previously (CITATION), with a slight modification. Briefly, cells were cultured in modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 4.33 g/L MS inorganic salts (Wako Chemicals), 3% Suc, 1 mg/L 2,4-D, and B5 vitamins including 4 mg/L of nicotinic acid, 4 mg/L of pyridoxine-HCl, 40 mg/L of thiamine-HCl, and 400 mg/L of myoinositol, pH 5.8. Transformation of the cells was performed as described previously (CITATION). For stable transformation of LexA:MIDD1, 3-d-old cells were cocultured with Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring LexA:MIDD1 for 48 h in MS medium supplemented with 50 mg/L of acetosyringone. Claforan (0.5 mg/L; Aventis) was added to the culture, and the suspension cells were cultured for a further 5 d. Then, the cells were cultured in the MS medium supplemented with 10 mg/L of hygromycin B. Surviving cells were subcultured every week with hygromycin B at increasing concentrations up to 50 mg/L. Xylem differentiation was induced as described previously (CITATION). To generate LexA:GFP-Kinesin-13A, LexA:tagRFP-Kinesin-13A, LexA:GFP-Kinesin-13AΔM, and LexA:tagRFP-Kinesin-13AΔM, the full-length coding region of Kinesin-13A (AT3G16630) or the C-terminal fragment comprising residues 1636 to the stop codon was PCR amplified with appropriate primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO entry vector (Invitrogen). These clones were recombined with pER-GX and pER-RX vectors (CITATION) using LR clonase mix II (Invitrogen), which resulted in the formation of N-terminal GFP and tagRFP fusions, respectively. To generate pKinesin-13A:GFP-Kinsein-13A, a 2-kb region of the promoter of Kinesin-13A and GFP-Kinesin-13A was amplified and fused by PCR. The fused fragment was cloned into the pEntr/D-TOPO vector, which was then recombined with the pGWB501 vector (CITATION). For the Kinesin-13A RNAi experiments, the first 400 bp of the Kinesin-13A coding sequence and an intron of WRKY33 were amplified and fused by PCR. The fused sequence was then cloned into the pEntr/D-TOPO vector. The reverse-orientation 400-bp fragment of the Kinesin-13A coding sequence was inserted into the 3′ end of the WRKY 33 intron using an In-Fusion HD cloning kit (Clontech). This inverted repeat was recombined with the pMDC7 vector using an LR reaction. For 35S:Kinesin-13A-RNAi/LexA:GFP, the Nos terminator-LexA fragment was PCR amplified from a pER8 vector with additional AscI sites at the 5′ and 3′ end and then inserted into the AscI site of the pEntr vector harboring the inverted repeat of Kinesin-13A. To generate the constructs used in the BiFC assay, a DNA sequence encoding residues 1 to 172 of enhanced YFP was inserted at the NotI site of the pEntr/D-TOPO vector harboring Kinesin-13AΔM. Another DNA fragment encoding residues 158 to 240 of enhanced YFP was inserted to the NotI site of the pEntr/D-TOPO vector harboring the MIDD1ΔN coding sequence. These vectors were then recombined with the pMDC7 vector. Cells were observed under an inverted fluorescence microscope fitted with a confocal unit as described previously (CITATION). A second system comprising an inverted microscope (IX83-ZDC; Olympus), a confocal unit (CSU-W1; Yokogawa), a cooled charge-coupled device camera (ORCA-R2; Hamamatsu Photonics), and laser lines set at 488 and 561 nm was also used. Kymograph analysis was performed using Image J software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). Transient expression in N. benthamiana was performed as described previously (CITATION). Cell sorting was performed as described previously (CITATION), with a few modifications. Cultured Arabidopsis cells were suspended in enzyme solution containing 600 mM mannitol, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.1% BSA, 2 mM CaCl2, 2 mM MES, 10 mM KCl, 0.1% BSA, 1.5% cellulase, and 0.1% pectolyase, pH 5.5, and then incubated for 2 h at 22°C with gentle agitation. Protoplasts were collected through 70-μm cell strainers and concentrated by centrifugation at ∼200g. The supernatant was aspirated and the cell pellet was resuspended in 10 mL of protoplast solution containing 600 mM mannitol, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.1% BSA, 2 mM CaCl2, 2 mM MES, 10 mM KCl, and 0.1% BSA, pH 5.5. Protoplasts were concentrated by centrifugation and then resuspended in 4 mL of protoplast solution. The protoplast suspension was then filtered through a 40-μm cell strainer. Protoplasts expressing GFP were isolated using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACSAria III; Becton Dickinson) fitted with a 130-μm nozzle. Protoplasts from non-GFP-expressing cells were used as a negative control. Protoplasts were sorted directly into RLT lysis buffer (Qiagen), mixed, and then immediately frozen at −80°C. Total RNA was prepared from Arabidopsis cells using the SDS-phenol method, followed by DNase treatment and purification using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) as described previously (CITATION). After reverse transcription with the oligo(dT)20 primer and SuperScript III reverse transcriptase, quantitative real-time PCR was performed using a LightCycler (Roche Diagnostics) with LightCycler TaqMan Master Probes and universal Probe Library probes in combination with gene-specific primers designed by Probe Finder software (http://www.roche-applied-science.com). Quantitative real-time PCR analysis for the UBIQUITIN10 gene was performed as a control. Quantification of gene expression was performed using LightCycler software, and the relative expression value compared with that of UBIQUITIN10 was calculated. Data were average of three biological replicates. The vectors were transformed into BL21 codon plus RIPL cells (Agilent). A single colony was picked and cultured at 37°C overnight in 2 mL of Luria-Bertani medium supplemented with carbenicillin. The starter culture was then transferred to 150 mL of Luria-Bertani medium and incubated at 28°C. When the OD600 of the culture reached 0.6, the temperature was reduced to 18°C and protein expression was induced using 0.5 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside. After 48 h of culture, cells were harvested by centrifugation and stored at −80°C. To purify GST-Kif2A, GST-MIDD1, and GST-Kinesin-13A, cells were resuspended in HEM (10 mM HEPES, pH 7.4, 1 mM EGTA, and 1 mM MgCl2) supplemented with 150 mM KCl, and lysates were prepared as described above. Glutathione-sepharose beads were added to the lysate and incubated for 30 min. Beads were washed three times with HEM supplemented with 100 mM KCl, and recombinant proteins were eluted with elution buffer comprising 100 mM HEPES, pH 7.4, 100 mM KCl, and 20 mM glutathione. A PD-10 column (GE Healthcare) was then used to change the buffer to BRB80 (80 mM PIPES, pH 6.9, 1 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM EGTA) supplemented with 100 mM KCl. The eluted product was quantified by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining using BSA as a standard. The product was then divided into small aliquots, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. Porcine tubulin (10 mg/mL; Cytoskeleton) was incubated at 37°C for 15 min in BRB80 buffer containing 10 μM taxol and 1 mM DTT. Microtubules were pelleted by centrifugation at 22°C for 15 min at 100,000g and then resuspended in BRB80 buffer containing 50 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, and 2 mM MgATP. For fluorescein labeling of microtubules, HiLyte 488-tagged porcine tubulin (Cytoskeleton) was mixed with porcine tubulin at a 1:9 ratio in BRB80 buffer, incubated in the presence of taxol and DTT, and then collected as described above. Microtubule depolymerization was performed using taxol-stabilized microtubules. Assays were performed in 0.5× BRB80 supplemented with 50 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, and either 2 mM MgATP or 2 mM AMPPNP. GST-Kif2A, GST-MIDD1, and GST-Kinesin-13A (each at 100 nM) were incubated with 1 μM microtubules. Protein mixtures were incubated for 15 min at 22°C and then centrifuged for 15 min at 22°C at 100,000g. The pellet was resuspended in BRB80 buffer, and the supernatant and resuspended pellets were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL libraries under the following accession numbers: Kinesin-13A, AT3G16630; MIDD1, AT3G53350; ROP11, AT5G62880; TUB6, AT5G12250; and Kif2A, NM_004520. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Movie 1. Dynamics of GFP-Kinesin-13A in the Cortex of Differentiating Xylem Cell.
