!~ABS~! The functions of the minor phospholipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] during vegetative plant growth remain obscure. Here, we targeted two related phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinases (PI4P 5-kinases) PIP5K1 and PIP5K2, which are expressed ubiquitously in Arabidopsis thaliana. A pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant with reduced PtdIns(4,5)P2 levels showed dwarf stature and phenotypes suggesting defects in auxin distribution. The roots of the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant had normal auxin levels but reduced auxin transport and altered distribution. Fluorescence-tagged auxin efflux carriers PIN-FORMED (PIN1)–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and PIN2-GFP displayed abnormal, partially apolar distribution. Furthermore, fewer brefeldin A–induced endosomal bodies decorated by PIN1-GFP or PIN2-GFP formed in pip5k1 pip5k2 mutants. Inducible overexpressor lines for PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 also exhibited phenotypes indicating misregulation of auxin-dependent processes, and immunolocalization showed reduced membrane association of PIN1 and PIN2. PIN cycling and polarization require clathrin-mediated endocytosis and labeled clathrin light chain also displayed altered localization patterns in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant, consistent with a role for PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the regulation of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Further biochemical tests on subcellular fractions enriched for clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs) indicated that pip5k1 and pip5k2 mutants have reduced CCV-associated PI4P 5-kinase activity. Together, the data indicate an important role for PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the control of clathrin dynamics and in auxin distribution in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! To examine the role of PI4P 5-kinases, we first identified Arabidopsis genes encoding PI4P 5-kinase isoforms with potential roles in vegetative tissues using transcript array information accessible through Genevestigator (CITATION). In previous experiments, recombinant PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 displayed the highest specific activities among ubiquitously expressed PI4P 5-kinases from Arabidopsis (CITATION); therefore, we chose these genes for further characterization. The PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 sequences cluster together on a subclade of a phylogenetic tree of all deduced Arabidopsis PI4P 5-kinase amino acid sequences (CITATION), suggesting related functionality. The third gene in this subclade, PIP5K3, is restricted in expression to roots and affects root hair formation (CITATION; CITATION). All other PI4P 5-kinase isoforms are more distantly related and notably different from PIP5K1 and PIP5K2. We verified expression of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 in vegetative tissues using 1500-bp promoter fragments of the genes to drive the expression of a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct in transgenic plants, followed by histochemical staining, and independently by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The promoter-GUS experiments indicated that PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 are expressed already early in development (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B online) and have similar expression patterns in vegetative tissues (see Supplemental Figures 1C to 1J online) as well as in flowers and pollen (see Supplemental Figures 1K to 1N online). Promoter activity was especially high in procambial tissues (see Supplemental Figures 1G and 1H online) and the root tips (see Supplemental Figures 1A, 1B, 1I, and 1J online), as previously noted for PIP5K1 (CITATION). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis supports expression of both PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 in leaves, flowers, roots, whole seedlings, and flower buds (see Supplemental Figure 1O online). We next isolated homozygous Arabidopsis T-DNA mutant lines with exon insertions in the genes PIP5K1 (SALK_146728) or PIP5K2 (SALK_012487) (Figure 1A). We inferred homozygosity from the inability to amplify wild-type alleles by PCR, concomitant with positive amplification of T-DNA–tagged alleles. T-DNA insertions were found in the first exon of pip5k1, 657 bp downstream from the ATG, and between the first exon and the first intron of pip5k2, 1185 bp downstream from the ATG. A pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant was obtained by crossing homozygous pip5k1and pip5k2 mutant lines, and the combined genotype was verified by PCR. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR showed that transcripts of PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 were reduced below the limits of detection in the respective single mutants (Figure 1B). Interestingly, reduction of PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 transcripts was accompanied by elevated levels of the transcripts of the other PI4P 5-kinase gene over the level of wild-type controls (Figure 1B). This indicates a compensatory effect at the level of transcription and complicates the interpretation of single mutant phenotypes. By contrast, the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant showed reduced levels of both transcripts (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] We measured the levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2 and various other phospholipids for wild-type controls, the two single mutants, the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant, and for a double mutant line ectopically expressing PIP5K1:EYFP (for enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) under an intrinsic 1500-bp promoter fragment by quantification of unlabeled compounds (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Additionally, PtdIns(4,5)P2 was independently quantified also by radiolabeling using [32P]Pi of wild-type controls, the two single mutants, and the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant (Figure 1D). The most prominent changes in lipid levels were observed for PtdIns(4,5)P2, which was reduced in the double mutant by 44 and 32% of wild-type levels according to nonlabeled analysis (Figure 1C) and radiolabeling (Figure 1D), respectively. The single mutants showed a less pronounced reduction of PtdIns(4,5)P2. The reduction of PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant was accompanied by increases in phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol, its biosynthetic precursors (Figure 1C). Among structural phospholipids, the level of phosphatidylcholine was slightly decreased (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), possibly indicating adaptive processes of membranes to a reduction in PtdIns(4,5)P2. Other lipids tested, including phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidic acid, did not display notably altered abundance in the single or double mutants (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Single homozygous pip5k1 or pip5k2 mutants showed only mildly altered growth (Figure 2A). By contrast, the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant displayed a strong growth defect (Figure 2A) characterized by reduced leaf expansion (Figures 2A and 2C), reduced root elongation in the light (Figures 2B and 2C), and a reduction in apical dominance resulting in multiple (up to 50) shoots from a single plant at a very late stage of development (Figure 2D). Senescence was delayed in the double mutant and plants could reach an age of over 10 months in long-day conditions. The pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants did not make seeds. As the double mutant did not produce flowers or siliques, double mutants were propagated as segregating offspring of selfed plants genotyped as pip5k1(−/−) pip5k2(+/−). Plants homozygous for pip5k1 or pip5k2 and heterozygous for the respective other allele [genotypes pip5k1(−/−) pip5k2(+/−) or pip5k1(+/−) pip5k2(−/−)] displayed phenotypes intermediate between those of the single mutants and the homozygous double mutant (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Ectopic expression of either untagged PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 (data not shown) or PIP5K1:EYFP or PIP5K2:EYFP under the native 1500-bp promoter fragments in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant produced phenotypes similar to the single mutants or even the wild-type controls. This observation supports the notion that the fluorescence-tagged variants of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 retained full functionality in vivo. [[FIGURE]] The phenotype of the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant resembles that of plants deficient in biosynthesis or perception of auxin (CITATION). To better characterize whether auxin-dependent responses were altered in plants with reduced expression of PIP5K1 and/or PIP5K2, we monitored gravitropic bending of roots and hypocotyls. Seedlings were grown in the dark for 7 d on vertical agar plates, the plates were rotated by 135° for 24 h as previously described (CITATION), and gravitropic curvature was recorded (Figure 3). Compared with wild-type controls, gravitropic curvature of hypocotyls and roots was slightly reduced in pip5k1 or pip5k2 single mutants and substantially reduced in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant (Figure 3). A complemented double mutant line ectopically expressing pPIP5K1:PIP5K1-EYFP displayed curvature of roots and hypocotyls similar to wild-type controls (Figure 3). The elongation of dark-grown roots (see Supplemental Figure 4A online) and hypocotyls (see Supplemental Figure 4B online) was determined for all lines tested and not found to be significantly different. [[FIGURE]] Because the phenotype of the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant included reduced root growth, apical dominance, and gravitropic bending, we speculated that these aspects might be a consequence of defects in auxin signaling. The wild-type controls and the double mutant showed similar levels of endogenous auxin (Figure 4A). By contrast, the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant showed significantly reduced basipetal auxin transport (Figure 4B). Auxin distribution was also tested by monitoring DR5-driven GFP distribution in roots (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). In wild-type controls the DR5-dependent GFP distribution reflected the characteristic auxin maximum in the root tip (see Supplemental Figure 5A online, top left), and the signal was further intensified by the exogenous application of indole 3-acetic acid (IAA; see Supplemental Figure 5A online, top right). By contrast, no GFP fluorescence was observed in pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants, neither in the absence nor the presence of exogenous IAA (see Supplemental Figure 5A online, bottom panels). The presence of the DR5:GFP construct was confirmed by PCR. To rule out genetic effects of incrossing, an independent DR5:GUS reporter line was created in the pip5k1 pip5k2 background (Figure 4C) and analyzed for responses to endogenous and exogenous auxins. As for the DR5:GFP reporter, the DR5:GUS reporter also did not indicate an auxin maximum in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant. Reporter activity only marginally increased in response to exogenous auxins, such as α-naphthalene acetic acid or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (Figure 4C). Importantly, the spatial distribution of the DR5-driven GUS signal in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant differed substantially from that in wild-type controls (Figure 4C). To test whether pip5k1 pip5k2 mutants were still sensitive to exogenous auxins, we treated wild-type controls and double mutants with auxin and monitored root elongation over a period of 6 d (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). The double mutant displayed substantially reduced root growth (compared with Figures 2B and 2C), within the limits of mutant growth, α-naphthalene acetic acid, 2,4-D, and IAA had similar inhibitory effects on root elongation as in wild-type controls (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Although the DR5 reporter does not provide bona fide information on auxin levels, the data suggested that auxin perception was not impaired in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant. Furthermore, this experiment demonstrated that the application of exogenous auxins did not aid root growth in the double mutant. Overall, the data presented in Figure 4 and Supplemental Figure 5 online indicate that reduced levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2 parallel reduced capability to maintain basipetal auxin transport in root tips. [[FIGURE]] To examine the biochemical functionality of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 variants used in this study, we recombinantly expressed the proteins as fusions to N-terminal maltose binding protein tags used to enhance solubility (see Supplemental Figure 6A online). Biochemical characterization showed that EYFP-tagged variants of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 displayed catalytic activity in vitro (see Supplemental Figure 6B online). In vitro catalytic activity did not differ between enzyme variants carrying only an N-terminal maltose binding protein tag or an additional C-terminal EYFP tag (see Supplemental Figure 6B online), consistent with previous reports (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Heterologous expression of untagged or fluorescence-tagged variants of either PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 restored the ability to grow at prohibitive temperature in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain carrying an allele of MSS4 encoding a temperature-sensitive variant of the PI4P 5-kinase MSS4p (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 6C online). The data confirm catalytic activity of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 and indicate that fluorescence-tagged variants of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 were functional in vitro, corroborating the mutant complementation tests (compared with Figure 2). To investigate the subcellular distributions of the proteins and to assess the impact of overproduction of the two kinases, we overexpressed fluorescence-tagged versions of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 in Arabidopsis. As the fluorescently tagged PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 under their own promoters displayed only very weak fluorescence, we replaced the native promoters with estradiol-inducible promoters of the pMDC7 system (CITATION), which should induce gene expression strongly upon estradiol treatment. We verified induction of the transgenes by monitoring EYFP fluorescence (Figure 5A). In root tip cells of these lines, EYFP-PIP5K1 and PIP5K2-EYFP displayed clear plasma membrane localization and weak diffuse cytosolic fluorescence (Figure 5A), characteristic of soluble enzymes that associate peripherally with the plasma membrane, and in particular resembling localization patterns previously reported for other plant PI4P 5-kinases in other cell types (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, both EYFP-PIP5K1 and PIP5K2-EYFP displayed pronounced polarized distribution and localized predominantly to apical and basal plasma membrane areas (Figure 5A). In some cases, this localization pattern was accompanied by nuclear localization (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). To test whether polarized distribution observed for the overexpressed PI4P 5-kinases was independently reflected by corresponding polarization of PtdIns(4,5)P2, we analyzed the distribution of the lipid by monitoring YFP-PHPLCδ1, a reporter that specifically binds PtdIns(4,5)P2 (CITATION). In plants not overexpressing a PI4P 5-kinase, YFP-PHPLCδ1 displayed polarized distribution to apical and basal membrane domains in a pattern similar to that found for EYFP-PIP5K1 and PIP5K2-EYFP (Figures 5A and 5B). We quantified the polarization of EYFP-PIP5K1, PIP5K2-EYFP, and of YFP-PHPLCδ1 as ratios of lateral versus apicobasal plasma membrane fluorescence, which were significantly less than one in cells of both the root cortex and the root epidermis (Figure 5C). [[FIGURE]] Plants used for localization studies were only mildly induced. Consistent with overproduction of the PI4P 5-kinases, strongly induced overexpressing lines accumulated increased amounts of PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Figure 6A). When the EYFP-PIP5K1 or PIP5K2-EYFP overexpressors were grown on vertical agar plates containing up to 5 µM estradiol, the plants exhibited a loss of gravitropic growth concurrent with random nondirectional root growth (Figures 6C and 6D). By contrast, estradiol treatment did not affect the growth of control plants overexpressing EYFP (Figure 6B). Random root growth was not observed in noninduced plants (data not shown). Auxin-related phenotypes of the overexpressors were not limited to gravitropic bending. Seven-day-old seedlings of all selected overexpressor lines exhibited changes in root hair morphology after 24 h of incubation on agar plates containing 5 µM estradiol. Root hairs of the induced overexpressors were shorter and thicker compared with noninduced controls (Figures 5E, 5F, and 5H). In addition, root hairs in the induced overexpressors often initiated at multiple sites of the trichoblasts (Figures 5G and 5I). The pattern observed was similar to that previously reported for root hair–specific overexpression of the PI4P 5-kinase isoform, PIP5K3 (CITATION; CITATION) and resembles phenotypes described for plants with perturbed auxin distribution in roots (CITATION). The effect on root hair morphology likely results from the ectopic PI4P 5-kinase expression, as PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 are normally expressed mainly in the vascular tissue of roots and only to a low degree in trichoblasts and root hairs (CITATION). No difference was observed between the N-terminally tagged EYFP-PIP5K1 and the C-terminally tagged PIP5K2-EYFP with regard to subcellular localization, accumulation of PtdIns(4,5)P2, or any of the auxin-related phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the phenotypes and changed auxin distribution in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant was linked to changed patterns of PIN distribution, we crossed Arabidopsis lines expressing PIN1-GFP or PIN2-GFP into the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant background and monitored the fluorescence distribution of PIN1-GFP or PIN2-GFP in root tips (Figure 7). Clear polar plasma membrane localization was observed in wild-type controls expressing PIN1-GFP (Figure 7A) or PIN2-GFP (Figure 7C). The polarized patterns observed corresponded well with previously reported patterns and in cells of the central cylinder PIN1-GFP localized predominantly to the basal side of the cells, whereas PIN2-GFP localized predominantly to the apical sides of cortex cells. In the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant background, fluorescence intensities observed for PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP were reduced. PIN1-GFP localized slightly more diffusely compared with the sharply defined patterns found in wild-type controls (Figure 7B). Plasma membrane association of PIN2-GFP (Figure 7D) was not limited to the basal or apical sides of the cells. Instead, in the double mutant, PIN2-GFP fluorescence was also sometimes detected in lateral plasma membrane areas (Figure 7D). These observations indicate perturbed polarization of PIN proteins as a consequence of reduced levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2. To test whether effects of overexpressing EYFP-PIP5K1 or PIP5K2-EYFP would also result in altered distribution of PIN proteins, overexpressor lines were grown on vertical agar plates and induced by the addition of estradiol. Plants displaying agravitropic root growth (compared with Figures 6B to 6D) were selected and the distribution of endogenous PIN1 and PIN2 was analyzed using immunodetection by specific antibodies against Arabidopsis PIN1 or PIN2 (Figures 7E to 7J). In estradiol-treated plants expressing an EYFP control, PIN1 was detected at the basal plasma membrane of cells of the central cylinder (Figure 7E), whereas PIN2 was detected at the apical plasma membrane of cortex cells (Figure 7H), representing wild-type distribution. PIN1 localization in the EYFP-PIP5K1 or PIP5K2-EYFP overexpressors resembled that found in the control plants (Figures 7F and 7G). PIN2 localization in the overexpressors differed from that in the EYFP controls by consistently displaying weaker membrane association under identical conditions for immunodetection and fluorescence imaging (Figures 7I and 7J). These observations suggest that overexpression of EYFP-PIP5K1 or PIP5K2-EYFP altered the membrane association of PIN2, which might result from perturbed endocytic trafficking. [[FIGURE]] To assess effects of reduced PtdIns(4,5)P2 levels on endocytic cycling of PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP, we successively applied cycloheximide (CHX) and brefeldin A (BFA), which inhibit de novo protein synthesis and the reinsertion of membranous compartments into the plasma membrane, respectively, resulting in the formation of BFA bodies. Care was taken not to exceed 25 µM BFA. When CHX and BFA were applied to wild-type roots expressing PIN1-GFP (Figure 8A) or PIN2-GFP (Figure 8C), BFA bodies decorated by PIN1-GFP or PIN2-GFP became visible within a few minutes and increased over 60 min, indicating a substantial rate of endocytic recycling of PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP between the plasma membrane and endosomal compartments. In sharp contrast, in roots of pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants expressing PIN1-GFP (Figure 8B) or PIN2-GFP (Figure 8D), we observed fewer and smaller BFA bodies within 60 min of CHX/BFA treatment. The data indicate that in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant, endocytic cycling of PIN1-GFP and of PIN2-GFP from the plasma membrane was impaired upstream of BFA-sensitive endosomes. Overview images of CHX/BFA-treated root tissue are provided in Supplemental Figure 8 online. To test whether defects in endocytosis affected overall membrane internalization, wild-type controls, the pip5k1 and pip5k2 single mutants, and the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant were subjected to CHX/BFA treatment, stained with the styryl dye FM4-64, and the subcellular distribution of the dye was monitored over a period of 90 min (Figures 8E and 8F; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). In all cases, the dye was internalized and decorated BFA bodies. In the controls, the single mutants and the double mutant the number of BFA bodies per cell increased with time of dye exposure, indicating that membrane internalization was essentially functional. Quantitative analysis (Figure 8G; see Supplemental Figure 9B online) revealed a decreased number of BFA bodies per cell in the mutant lines; for the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant, the reduction compared with wild-type controls was significant after 50 and 90 min of dye application. The data indicate that reduced levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2 impaired endocytosis of certain components, while other aspects remained largely as in the wild type. This observation is in line with the notion of alternative routes of endocytosis, only some of which might depend on PtdIns(4,5)P2. [[FIGURE]] The endocytic cycling of PIN proteins from the plasma membrane requires clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, CME has been linked to phosphoinositides in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes (CITATION). To further substantiate the hypothesis that CME of PIN proteins requires PtdIns(4,5)P2 in Arabidopsis, we monitored the dynamic membrane association of GFP-tagged CLATHRIN LIGHT CHAIN 2 (CLC2-GFP) (CITATION) in 7-d-old roots of wild-type controls and pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants by spinning disc confocal live imaging (Figure 9; see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). In wild-type controls, CLC2-GFP decorated small punctae in the focal plane of the plasma membrane and larger, fast-moving structures outside the focal plane likely representing the trans-Golgi network (Figure 9A; see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). The smaller, plasma membrane–associated CLC2-GFP foci appeared in wild-type controls at a mean density of 150 ± 13 per 100 µm2 plasma membrane (Figure 9B) and were characterized by their transient appearance and disappearance within a time interval of ∼26 ± 2 s, as indicated by kymograph analysis (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). In pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants the plasma membrane–associated foci were present at a substantially reduced density of only 63 ± 12 per 100 µm2 plasma membrane (Figure 9C). Individual CLC2-GFP foci did not display alterations in dwell time at the plasma membrane (∼28 ± 6 s; see Supplemental Figure 10 online) but appeared overall much larger in the double mutant than in wild-type controls (Figures 9B and 9D). The data indicate that recruitment of CLC2-GFP to the plasma membrane of pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants was not impaired but that CLC2-GFP displayed altered distribution into fewer but larger plasma membrane–associated foci. This observation is consistent with the notion that clathrin-dependent internalization of PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP was impaired in the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutant (compared with Figure 8). [[FIGURE]] To verify effects of PtdIns(4,5)P2 production on CLC2-GFP dynamics (compared with Figure 9), we examined the rates of PtdIns(4,5)P2 formation in subcellular fractions enriched for CCVs. In Arabidopsis, salt stress can trigger increased formation of CCVs (CITATION). Furthermore, the levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2 in Arabidopsis increase upon salt treatment and associate with CCVs (CITATION). Therefore, we performed salt stress experiments to test whether PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 contributed to the formation of CCV-associated PtdIns(4,5)P2 in Arabidopsis. Hydroponically grown wild-type controls and pip5k1 and pip5k2 mutants were subjected to salt treatment by the application of 0.4 M NaCl in culture medium, and CCVs were isolated from leaves prior to stimulation and after 60 min, precisely as previously reported (CITATION). Only the single pip5k1 and pip5k2 mutants could be used for hydroponic growth, as the pip5k1 pip5k2 double mutants are too small to provide the amount of material required for these tests. In wild-type plants, CCV-associated PI4P 5-kinase activity increased upon salt stress (Figure 10), consistent with either translocation of a PI4P 5-kinase from the plasma membrane to CCVs or with activation of CCV-associated PI4P 5-kinase(s). By contrast, in the pip5k1 mutant CCV-associated PI4P 5-kinase activity exhibited only a limited increase and no increase was detected in the pip5k2 mutant upon stress treatment (Figure 10). The data indicate that the CCV-associated PI4P 5-kinase activity is attributable largely to PIP5K2 and, to a lesser degree, PIP5K1. The pattern is consistent with the in vitro catalytic activities of the recombinant enzymes, as PIP5K2 displays five- to sixfold higher activity than its close homolog, PIP5K1 (compared with Supplemental Figure 6B online). The combined characterization of CCVs formed upon salt treatment supports the notion that PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 associate with CCVs, consistent with a role for PtdIns(4,5)P2 in CME. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Amplification of 1500-bp genomic sequences upstream of coding sequences for use as promoters was achieved with different Arabidopsis thaliana bacterial artificial chromosome clone templates as indicated, using the primer combinations PromPIP5K1for/PromPIP5K1rev on BAC clone F2E2 and PromPIP5K2for/PromPIP5K2rev on bacterial artificial chromosome clone T32E8. The PCR products representing promoter regions of PIP5K1 or PIP5K2 were moved directionally as SalI-NotI fragments into the vector pUC18Entry-EYFP, creating the plasmids PromPIP5K1-EYFP and PromPIP5K2-EYFP. The coding regions of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 were amplified from PIP5K1- pGem-T-easy or PIP5K2-pGem-T-easy (CITATION), respectively, using the primer combinations PIP5K1for/PIP5K1rev and PIP5K2for/PIP5K2rev. The coding sequences for PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 were moved as NotI-NotI fragments from PIP5K1-pGEM-Teasy and PIP5K2-pGEM-Teasy into PromPIP5K1-EYFP and PromPIP5K2-EYFP, respectively. A stop codon between PIP5K1/ PIP5K2 and the respective EYFP reading frames was removed by mutagenesis using the primers QCPIPK1for/QCPIPK1rev and QCPIPK2for/QCPIPK2rev. Finally, the fragments consisting of the respective promoter sequence and the fusion constructs encoding PIP5K1-EYFP and PIP5K2-EYFP, respectively, were transferred to the expression plasmid pCAMBIA3300.0 GC using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The same PCR products representing PromPIP5K1 and PromPIP5K2 as used above were moved directionally as SalI-NotI fragments into the vector pgreenGUSPlus (CITATION). The resulting plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 and used for stable Arabidopsis transformation. PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 were moved as NotI-NotI fragments from PIP5K1- or PIP5K2-pGem-T-easy, respectively, into the yeast expression vector. Mss4 was amplified from S. cerevisiae cDNA using the primer combination MSS4for/MSS4rev. After cloning the PCR product into pGEM-T-easy (Promega), it was moved as a NotI-NotI fragment into the vector YEp112-A1NEX (provided by Ellen Hornung, Georg-August-University, Goettingen). The coding region for PIP5K1 was moved from PIP5K1-pGem-T-easy into the plasmid pUC18Entr-ccdb as a NotI-NotI fragment. This introduced a new NcoI site contained in the primer sequence that was used for the introduction of the EYFP coding region, previously amplified using the primer combination EYFPfor/EYFPrev. The coding region for PIP5K2 was moved from PIP5K2-pGem-T-easy as a SalI-NotI fragment into pUC18Entry-EYFP. Both EYFP-PIP5K1 and PIP5K2-EYFP were then transferred to the expression plasmid pMDC7 (CITATION) using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. All primer sequences are specified in Supplemental Table 1 online. Experiments were performed with Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0) or in Col-0 plants carrying T-DNA insertions in pipk5k1 (SALK_146728) and/or for pip5k2 (SALK_012487). For stress treatments, seeds were surface sterilized by incubation for 15 min at 22°C in 6% (w/v) sodium hypochlorite in 0.1% Triton X-100 and washed five times in sterile distilled water. Seeds were vernalized at 4°C overnight and cultured in sealed jars on 0.5% Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with modified vitamins (Duchefa) containing 1% Suc and 0.25% Gelrite (Carl Roth). After 14 d, plants were transferred into hydroponic cultures in liquid medium according to CITATION. Hydroponic cultures were exposed to 140 μmol photons m−2 s−1 of light under a light/dark regime of 8 h light/16 h dark and continuous aeration. For stress treatments, 8- to 10-week-old-plants were stimulated by adding NaCl to a final concentration of 0.4 M to the hydroponic medium. Rosette leaves were harvested before treatment and after various periods of stimulation and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Recombinant constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis lines using the floral dip method (CITATION). Independent transformants were selected on MS media containing 50 µg mL−1 kanamycin or 15 µg mL−1 hygromycin, 1% (w/v) Suc, and 0.6% (w/v) agar or grown on soil and sprayed after 7 d with a 0.5% (w/v) Basta solution (Bayer Crop Science). CCVs were enriched according to CITATION with minor modifications as previously described (CITATION). To prevent protein degradation, Pefabloc (Carl Roth) and protease inhibitor cocktail (Carl Roth) were included in all buffers. Lipids were extracted and analyzed according to CITATION with slight modifications, as fatty acid methyl esters were analyzed using a 30 m × 250-µm DB-23 capillary column (Agilent) and a GCMS-QP2010S-EI gas chromatography–mass spectrometry system (Shimadzu). Twelve-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on MS agar plates were transferred to a 24-well plate and equilibrated overnight under continuous light with gentle shaking. Each well contained 500 μL of MS media with 1% Suc and six Arabidopsis seedlings (for wild-type and single mutant lines) and eight seedlings (pipk1 pipk2 double mutant). Radiolabel (50 μCi of [32P]Pi) was added to each well, and seedlings were harvested after 30 min, blotted on Kimwipes, and incubated for 20 min on ice in 500 μL of cold 20% perchloric acid. Seedlings were transferred to glass tubes, and lipids were extracted and separated by thin layer chromatography as previously described (CITATION). The amount of [32P]Pi-labeled PtdInsP2 was calculated as the percentage of the total [32P]Pi incorporated into the lipid phase of each sample. Lipid kinase activity was determined as previously described (CITATION). Reaction products were identified according to comigration with authentic standards (Avanti Polar Lipids) and quantified on thin layer chromatography plates by phosphor imaging (Phosphoimager FLA-3000; Fujifilm). PI4P 5-kinases were expressed in S. cerevisiae strain YOC808 and complementation tests performed as previously described (CITATION). The parental strain, YOC807, was used as a control. Gravitropic bending was determined using plants grown on MS media in vertical Petri dishes as previously described (CITATION) according to digital images. The absence or presence of T-DNA inserts was detected by PCR on genomic DNA templates. The following primer combinations were used to amplify the wild-type alleles: gPIPK1for/gPIPK1rev and gPIPK2for/gPIPK2rev. Mutant alleles were amplified using LBa1 and the respective reverse primer. Total RNA was extracted using plant RNA purification reagent (Invitrogen). RNA was incubated with RNase-free DNase I for 30 min at 37°C to remove genomic DNA contamination, and RNA was ethanol precipitated. Five micrograms of total RNA was used as a template for reverse transcription with RevertAid H Minus M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) in the presence of oligo(dT) primers. Equal amounts of first-strand cDNAs were used as templates for real-time PCR amplification using the following primer combinations: qPIP5K1for/qPIP5K1rev and qPIP5K2for/qPIP5K2rev. The Arabidopsis actin gene, ACT2, was amplified using primer combination ACT2for/ACT2rev. Quantitative real-time PCRs were performed in a Mini-Opticon System (Bio-Rad), and PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 transcript levels were quantified in relation to ACT2 levels. Plant material was extracted as previously described (CITATION). The analysis of constituents was performed using an Agilent 1100 HPLC system (Agilent Technologies) coupled to an Applied Biosystems 3200 hybrid triple quadrupole/linear ion trap mass spectrometer (MDS Sciex). Nanoelectrospray ionization (nanoESI) analysis was achieved using a chip ion source (TriVersaNanoMate; AdvionBioSciences). Reversed-phase HPLC separation was performed on an EC 50/2 Nucleodure C18 gravity 1.8-µm column (50 × 2.1 mm, 1.8-µm particle size; Macherey and Nagel), applying a column temperature of 30°C. For analysis, 10 μL of extract was injected. The binary gradient system consisted of solvent A, water/acetic acid (100:0.1, v/v), and solvent B, acetonitrile/acetic acid (100:0.1, v/v), with the following gradient program: 5% solvent B for 1 min, followed by a linear increase of solvent B up to 95% within 10 min and an isocratic run at 95% solvent B for 4 min. To reestablish starting conditions, a linear decrease to 5% B within 2 min was performed, followed by 10-min isocratic equilibration at 5% B. The flow rate was 0.3 mL min−1. For stable nanoESI, 130 μL min−1 of 2-propanol/acetonitrile/water/acetic acid (70:20:10:0.1, v/v/v/v) delivered by a 2150 HPLC pump (GE Healthcare) was added just after the column via a mixing tee valve. Using another post column splitter, 790 nL min−1 of the eluent was directed to the nanoESI chip. Ionization voltage was set to −1.7 kV. IAA was negatively ionized and determined in a scheduled multiple reaction monitoring mode. For the scheduled mode, the multiple reaction monitoring detection window was set to 72 s and a target scan time of 1,2 s was applied. Mass transitions were as follows: for D5-IAA 179/135 (declustering potential −40 V, entrance potential −6.5 V, and collision energy −22 V) and for IAA 174/130 (declustering potential −55 V, entrance potential −4 V, and collision energy −16 V). The mass analyzers were adjusted to a resolution of 0.7 atomic mass units full width at half height. The ion source temperature was 40°C, and the curtain gas was set at 10 (given in arbitrary units). Quantification was performed using a calibration curve of intensity (mass-to-charge) ratios of [unlabeled]/[deuterium-labeled] versus molar amounts of unlabeled (0.3 to 1000 pmol). Seven-day-old Arabidopsis Col-0 and 10-d-old day old pip5k1 pip5k2 seedlings with similar root lengths were grown on vertical plates. A piece of agarose gel containing 10 µM IAA (Sigma-Aldrich) and 100 nM [3H]IAA (Radiochemicals) was placed at the juncture between root tip and hypocotyl. Auxin was allowed to diffuse into the root. After 18 h, the terminal 1-cm tip of the root was removed and radioactivity determined by liquid scintillation counting using an Analyzer Tricarb 1900 TR (Canberra Packard). Plants were treated with 50 µM CHX ∼15 min prior to imaging. For the PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP recycling kinetic analysis, 25 µM BFA was applied to the plantlets, and confocal images were taken after the times indicated. Whole-mount immunolabeling of root tips was done as previously described (CITATION) with modifications: After fixation, root tips were mounted on poly-l-Lys–coated slides, air-dried, and stored at −20°C. After rehydration and cell wall digestion, blocking was done with 5% BSA in PBS, and antibodies were diluted in 5% BSA/PBS supplemented with 1% acetylated BSA (Aurion). Goat anti-PIN1 (ap-20, diluted 1:250; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and chicken anti-PIN2 (diluted 1:250; Agrisera) were used as primary antibodies. Donkey anti-goat IgG coupled to AlexaFluor488 and goat anti-chicken IgG coupled to AlexaFluor488 (all from Invitrogen) diluted 1:500 were used as secondary antibodies. FM4-64 (Molecular Imaging Products) was added to root tips at a final concentration of 10 µM as described (CITATION) and visualized after different periods of incubation. Histochemical staining of plant tissue for GUS activity was performed as previously described (CITATION). GUS-positive samples were examined with a bright-field microscope (Olympus BX51) or a stereomicroscope (Olympus SZX12) at low magnification (×4 to ×10), both equipped with a camera, and digital images were recorded. For root length and leaf area measurements, plants were imaged using a flatbed scanner (Canonscan 800S; Canon). Lengths of roots and hypocotyls were determined using ImageJ (v. 1.41; National Institutes of Health), while leaf area was calculated using BlattFlaeche software (DatInf). Bright-field and epifluorescence images were recorded using an Olympus BX51 microscope, a F41-028 HQ filter set for YFP (Olympus), a F41-007 HQ filter set for Redstar, an Olympus ColorView II camera, and analySISDocu3.2 software (Soft-Imaging-Systems). Alternatively, images were recorded using a Zeiss AxioImager M1 microscope with filter sets 43 for DsRed, 46 for EYFP, and 47 for CFP. Confocal images were recorded using a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope. EYFP was excited at 514 nm and imaged using an HFT 405/514/633-nm major beam splitter and a 529- to 603-nm band-pass filter. EYFP and Redstar were simultaneously excited at 488 and 561 nm, respectively, and imaged using a 405/488/561-nm major beam splitter and 505- to 550-nm and 575- to 615-nm band-pass filters. Alternatively, confocal microscopy was performed using an LSM 710 confocal microscope (Zeiss). Multi Time macro (Multi Time Series PLUS ZEN 2010-18) was used for automated series of multiple roots. Images were processed and analyzed using Fiji software (http://pacific.mpi-cbg.de/). Three-dimensional images of whole root tips were reconstructed using the Fiji Stitching plug-in (CITATION). Immunolabeled root tips were analyzed using an LSM700 (Zeiss). Immunomicrographs were processed through Photoshop 12.0.4 program (Adobe). The fluorescently tagged CLC2-GFP marker lines were imaged on a confocal microscope equipped with a Yokogawa spinning disc head fitted to a Nikon Ti-E inverted microscope, a total internal reflected fluorescence (TIRF) oil immersion objective (Nikon CFI Apo TIRF × 100, numerical aperture of 1.49) an evolve charge-coupled device camera (Photometrics Technology), and a ×1.2 lens between the spinning disc and the camera. GFP was excited at 491 nm using a multichannel dichroic and an ET525/50M band-pass emission filter (Chroma Technology), while exposure time was 800 ms for the GFP laser. Image acquisitions were performed using Metamorph online premier (version 7.5). Images were processed with the help of Fiji image analysis software. Background correction was performed using subtract background (rolling ball radius 20 pixels), and walking average plug-ins in Fiji were used to smoothen the movies. Kymographs were obtained using the multiple kymograph plug-in, while clathrin density measurements were performed using the Fiji plug-in TrackMate. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: ACT2, At3g18780; CLC2, At2g40060; PIP5K1, At1g21980; PIP5K2, At1g77740; PIN1, At1g73590; and PIN2, At5g57090. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 Are Expressed in Various Organs of Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 2. T-DNA Insertion Mutants Deficient in PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 Have Unaltered Levels of Structural Phospholipids. Supplemental Figure 3. T-DNA Insertion Mutants with the Genotypes pip5k1(−/−)pip5k2(+/−) or pip5k1(+/−)pip5k2(−/−) Are Phenotypic Intermediates between Single and Double Mutants. Supplemental Figure 4. Elongation of Hypocotyls and Roots for Gravitropism Tests in pip5k1 and pip5k2 Single Mutants and the pip5k1 pip5k2 Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 5. Auxin Distribution Is Impaired in the pip5k1 pip5k2 Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 6. Fluorescence-Tagged PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 Act as PI4P 5-Kinases and Complement a Yeast MSS4 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 7. Fluorescence-Tagged Variants of PIP5K1 and PIP5K2 Localize to the Plasma Membrane and the Nucleus of Arabidopsis Cells. Supplemental Figure 8. Endocytic Cycling of PIN1-GFP and PIN2-GFP Is Reduced in the pip5k1 pip5k2 Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 9. Endocytic Cycling of the Styryl Dye FM 4-64 Is Slightly Reduced in the pip5k1 and pip5k2 Single Mutants. Supplemental Figure 10. Lifetime Analysis of Plasma Membrane–Associated Clathrin Foci. Supplemental Table 1. Primer Sequences. Supplemental Movie 1. Dynamics of CLC2-GFP in Root Cells of Arabidopsis Wild Type. Supplemental Movie 2. Dynamics of CLC2-GFP in Root Cells of the Arabidopsis pip5k1 pip5k2 Double Mutant.
