!~ABS~! Proteins detrimental to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology need to be efficiently exported. Here, we identify two mechanisms that control trafficking of Arabidopsis thalianaGLL23, a 43 kDa GDSL-like lipase implicated in glucosinolate metabolism through its association with the β-glucosidase myrosinase. Using immunofluorescence, we identified two mutants that showed aberrant accumulation of GLL23: large perinuclear ER aggregates in the nuclear cage (nuc) mutant; and small compartments contiguous with the peripheral ER in the cytoplasmic bodies (cyb) mutant. Live imaging of fluorescently tagged GLL23 confirmed its presence in the nuc and cyb compartments, but lack of fluorescent signals in the wild-type plants suggested that GLL23 is normally post-translationally modified for ER export. NUC encodes the MVP1/GOLD36/ERMO3 myrosinase-associated protein, previously shown to have vacuolar distribution. CYB is an ER and Golgi-localized p24 type I membrane protein component of coat protein complex (COP) vesicles, animal and yeast homologues of which are known to be involved in selective cargo sorting for ER–Golgi export. Without NUC, GLL23 accumulates in the ER this situation suggests that NUC is in fact active in the ER. Without CYB, both GLL23 and NUC were found to accumulate in cyb compartments, consistent with a role for NUC in GLL23 processing and indicated that GLL23 is the likely sorting target of the CYB p24 protein.
!~RES~! The nuclear cage (nuc) and cytoplasmic bodies (cyb) mutants were identified in an immunofluorescence-based screen that identified mutants with altered microtubule organization in an EMS-mutagenized population of A. thaliana. The nuc mutants had large (approximately 25 μm) perinuclear structures (Figure 1a), whereas cyb mutants contained small (approximately 2–3 μm long) spindle-shaped cytoplasmic structures (Figure 1b). Both structures were highly antigenic to the tyrosinated α-tubulin-specific TUB-1A2 antibody (Kreis, CITATION) utilized in the mutant screen. Microtubules were of normal appearance in the mutant cells. [[FIGURE]] The nuc and cyb structures were detected only during early plant development in the epidermal cells of cotyledons and hypocotyls, with a smaller number in the epidermal cells of the first leaf and in roots. These observations indicated that the nuc and cyb mutations affect a common process. Mutant plants had a healthy appearance and developed normally under non-stressful growth conditions, which suggested that the pathway is either non-essential or is required only under particular growth conditions. We determined that, despite recognition by TUB-1A2, the antigen associated with the nuc and cyb structures was not tubulin. The nuc and cyb structures remained unlabelled when the mutants were probed with other tubulin-specific antibodies (see Experimental Procedures) and suggested that TUB-1A2 cross-reacts with a component common to the nuc and cyb structures. In wild-type cells, TUB-1A2 labelled only microtubules and thus failed to localize to the normal cellular distribution of the protein that accumulated in nuc and cyb structures (Figure 1c). Electron microscopy analysis revealed that the nuc structures are perinuclear clusters of membranous tubules, each about 200 nm in diameter and filled with fibrillar material (Figure 1d). Immunogold labelling showed that TUB-1A2 recognized contents of the nuc structures (Figure 1e). The cyb structures resembled ER dilations that included the presence of ribosomes at their surface but were smaller and were filled with a crystalline material (Figure 1f and inset). Expression of the fluorescent reporters for ER (GFP–HDEL) and Golgi (ST–GFP) in the mutants confirmed that the nuclear cages are part of the ER (data shown later in Figures 3d and 4b). The cyb structures were not marked by either fluorescent reporter and the numerous ER fusiform bodies labelled with GFP–HDEL were larger than the cytoplasmic bodies. Double immunogold labelling with TUB-1A2 and anti-GFP (targeting GFP–HDEL) distributed to distinct but contiguous organelles (Figure 1g). These observations indicated that the nuc mutation, via accumulation of the TUB-1A2 cross-reactive protein, causes aggregation of ER around the nucleus, while the cyb mutation causes aggregates of the same protein to accumulate in small compartments within some small unspecified endomembrane compartments. We identified the TUB-1A2 cross-reactive protein by organelle fractionation. Based on the extensive perinuclear ER, we predicted that the nuclear fraction isolated from nuc plants would be enriched in the TUB-1A2 cross-reactive protein. Immunoblotting showed that TUB-1A2 recognized, in addition to the 55 kDa α-tubulin band, a approximately 40 kDa band, which was detected in the nuclear pellet and, to a lesser extent, in the supernatant from nuc plants, but was not detected in the wild-type extracts (Figure 2a). Sequencing of the 40 kDa protein band identified a 43 kDa myrosinase-associated protein encoded by At1g54010 (GLL23) (Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that GLL23 was indeed the target of TUB-1A2, we expressed this protein in BL21 Escherichia coli cells. By immunoblot analysis of the bacterial pellet lysate with TUB-1A2, we detected a strong, approximately 40 kDa band in the lane that corresponded to isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-induced cells that expressed GLL23 (Figure 2b). We determined that TUB-1A2 recognized a C-terminal motif of GLL23 by comparing the sequences of the antibody epitope and GLL23 using the ClustalW multiple sequence alignment tool. The TUB-1A2 antibody was raised against a synthetic peptide that consisted of an amino-terminal lysine followed by 12 carboxy-terminal amino acids, including a terminal tyrosine of porcine α-tubulin (Ponstingl et al., CITATION; Kreis, CITATION). This antibody reacts specifically with epitopes present in tyrosinated α-tubulin but not in the carboxy-terminal peptide of the detyrosinated form (Kreis, CITATION). The ClustalW alignment predicted that TUB-1A2 would bind to the C-terminus of GLL23, which has two C-terminal tyrosine residues (Figure S2). Site-directed mutagenesis to remove the two C-terminal tyrosine residues almost completely abolished the TUB-1A2 labelling (Figure 2c), thus confirming that these residues are a part of the TUB-1A2 epitope. Given that GLL23 protein is not detected in the wild-type plant by TUB-1A2, we investigated the possibility that GLL23 gene expression does not normally occur in young wild-type seedlings. Transcript analysis by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) determined that GLL23 is indeed expressed in 10-day-old wild-type seedlings. Interestingly, GLL23 transcript levels were equivalent in wild-type plants and cyb but greatly reduced in nuc (Figure 2d). GLL23 has been detected in vacuolar (Carter et al., CITATION), tonoplast (Shimaoka et al., CITATION) and cell wall proteomes (Kwon et al., CITATION; Irshad et al., CITATION). Based on this knowledge, and our finding that GLL23 cannot be detected by TUB-1A2 in wild-type plants, we hypothesized that GLL23 is normally rapidly exported from the ER and that its processing involves modification of the C-terminus. To test this hypothesis, we made a C-terminal GLL23–RFP construct and drove expression with the UBQ10 promoter (UBQ10prom). We chose mRFP because it is better suited for acidic compartments (Marti et al., CITATION; Renna et al., CITATION) than GFP, which displays weak fluorescence under acidic conditions (Tamura et al., CITATION). In cells of stably transformed lines, GLL23–RFP accumulated in the aberrant structures of nuc (Figure 2e) and cyb (Figure 2f and Video S1). Counter-staining with TUB-1A2 antibody confirmed that these structures are identical with those shown in Figure 1 (Figure S3). We detected no GLL23–RFP signal in wild-type cells, (Figure 2g), a finding that supported the hypothesis that the C-terminal region of GLL23 is normally modified or degraded soon after synthesis. We next constructed an N-terminal citrine-yellow fluorescent protein (cYFP) fusion of GLL23. The cYFP coding sequence was inserted after the sequence that encodes the GLL23 signal peptide and six N-terminal amino acids, and expression was driven by UBQ10prom. In stably transformed mutant seedlings, cYFP–GLL23 localized to the nuc and cyb structures (Figure 3a,b). In stably transformed wild-type seedlings, most cells were devoid of YFP signal but small spherical structures were observed in some guard cells (Figure 3c). Using a transient overexpression system to co-express cYFP–GLL23 and the ER marker mCherry–HDEL under UBQ10prom, we determined that cYFP–GLL23 accumulated in the abundant perinuclear ER in nuc (Figure 3d), and to compartments that were coincident with the peripheral ER network in cyb (Figure 3e) and wild-type cells (Figure 3f). In contrast with the ‘chain-of-beads’ appearance of the cyb structures (Figure 3e inset), the cYFP–GLL23 compartments in wild-type cells were spherical bodies approximately 0.7 μm in diameter (Figure 3f). There was no evidence of cYFP–GLL23 in vacuolar or apoplastic compartments, which suggested that N-terminal modification and loss of the cYFP tag also occur. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the accumulation of full-length cYFP–GLL23 in cyb and nuc compartments and its processing in wild-type plants, protein extracts from wild-type, cyb and nuc seedlings stably expressing cYFP–GLL23 (as shown in Figure 3a–c) were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunoblotted with anti-GFP (which also binds to cYFP) and TUB-1A2 anti-tubulin (Figure 3g). Three polypeptides were recognized by anti-GFP in cyb and nuc extracts, including a approximately 70 kDa band that corresponded to the full-length cYFP–GLL23 (expected size 71 kDa), a approximately 35 kDa band likely to be the YFP plus part of the N-terminus of GLL23, as well as a smaller, less focused band around 25 kDa, which most likely corresponded to free cYFP. The TUB-1A2 antibody, in addition to labelling 55 kDa tubulin, recognized both approximately 70 kDa and approximately 40 kDa bands in nuc and cyb extracts that corresponded to full-length cYFP–GLL23 and endogenous GLL23, respectively. In the wild-type extracts, only a very faint, approximately 70 kDa band was detected with anti-GFP, consistent with the small amount of cYFP–GLL23 observed in guard cells. Interestingly, both the approximately 35 and 25 kDa bands were labelled with similar intensity to the mutant extracts in the cYFP–GLL23-transformed wild-type extract despite lack of fluorescence. This loss of fluorescence suggests that the protein in the 35 and 25 kDa bands was modified or partially degraded. Taken together, the immunolabelling and live imaging results indicated that, in wild-type plants, GLL23 is only transiently resident in a specific ER subcompartment, and that it is either post-translationally modified (possibly at both the C- and N-termini) prior to export or targeted for degradation. Both cyb and nuc mutations impeded its transport from the ER, with nuc having a more severe effect. Using a map-based cloning approach (see Method S1), we identified nuc as a single base pair mutation from G to A in the fifth exon of At1g54030, resulting in a G341R substitution (Figure 4a and Figure S4). At1g54030 encodes a 417-amino acid (46 kDa) protein that belongs to the GDSL-like lipase family. Three research groups have identified independent EMS mutants in At1g54030: mvp1-1, gold36 and ermo3 (Figure 4a and Figure S4) that display the same formation of large perinuclear aggregates as nuc (Agee et al., CITATION; Marti et al., CITATION; Nakano et al., CITATION). We confirmed that nuc is allelic to mvp1-1 by carrying out a complementation test, using a GFP–HDEL expressing nuc line as pollen donor. Perinuclear ER aggregates were evident in the nuc/mvp1-1 transheterozygous F1 progeny (Figure 4b,c). Immunoblotting with TUB-1A2 confirmed that, as with nuc mutants, GLL23 accumulated in mvp1-1 (Figure 4d). [[FIGURE]] Of note, the nuc mutation is located within the C-terminal part of the GDSL-lipase domain, whereas the previously described mvp1-1 and gold36 mutations are restricted to the N-terminal part of the protein (Figure S4). The nuc phenotype suggested that the C-terminal part of this protein is also essential for function. The mutation affects a region adjacent to sequence block V that is highly conserved among GDSL-lipases (Akoh et al., CITATION) and contains aspartate-328 and histidine-331 residues as part of a catalytic triad (Figure S4). The nuc substitution of glycine in position 341 by a larger positively charged arginine may affect the tertiary structure of the protein and render it non-functional. As previous reports demonstrated that disruption of MVP1/GOLD36 resulted in a general ER export defect (Agee et al., CITATION; Marti et al., CITATION), we investigated the distribution of selected secretory markers: the Golgi markers ST–RFP and Man1–mCherry (Nelson et al., CITATION), and the plasma membrane and apoplast marker GPI-anchored YFP–LTPG (DeBono et al., CITATION) in nuc mutants. We also tested the distribution of these markers in wild-type and cyb plants. As with previous studies, we found that disruption of At1g54030 causes partial retention of Golgi, plasma membrane and apoplast markers to the perinuclear structures of nuc seedlings (Figure S5). The cyb mutation did not affect the distribution of any of the secretory markers tested (Figure S5). These results suggested that, in contrast with general defect in trafficking of secretory proteins in nuc mutants, the cyb mutation leads to a more specific defect in trafficking of GLL23 (and possibly of a small number of other secretory proteins). Using an immunofluorescence-based positional cloning strategy (see Method S1), we determined that the cyb mutation is a single nucleotide substitution from G to A in the second exon of the At1g57620 gene (Figure 5a). At1g57620 encodes a small 24 kDa type I membrane protein that belongs to the emp24/gp25L/p24/GOLD (GOLgi Dynamics) family known in animal and yeast systems to be involved in selective protein transport between ER and Golgi (Strating and Martens, CITATION). The missense cyb mutation substitutes the conserved glycine-96 residue with glutamate within the GOLD domain (Figure S6), implicated in protein–protein interactions. The secondary structure predictions showed that the GOLD domain is a compact all-β-fold structure and that the hydrophobic cores that support the predicted β-strands exhibit the highest sequence conservation (Anantharaman and Aravind, CITATION). Thus, the substitution of the conserved small neutral glycine-96 residue with a larger, negatively charged glutamate is likely to disrupt the GOLD domain's structure and, consequently, the protein's function. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the mutation in At1g57620 causes the cyb phenotype, the SAIL_664_A06 line with a T-DNA insertion in the first intron of At1g57620 (Figure 5a) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) (Sessions et al., CITATION). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the SAIL_664_A06 homozygote confirmed that it is a transcript-null allele (Figure 5b). Immunoblotting (Figure 5c) and immunofluorescence (Figure 5d) with TUB-1A2 determined that the homozygous At1g57620 transcript-null and cyb mutants have identical phenotypes, this finding indicated that the G96E substitution within the GOLD domain renders CYB non-functional. We hereafter designated the G96E substitution mutant cyb-1 and the SAIL_664_A06 T-DNA insertion line as cyb-2. Importantly, the cyb-2 heterozygote also formed fewer cyb structures than the homozygote and indicated that, like cyb-1, cyb-2 is semi-dominant (Figure 5e). The semi-dominant nature of both the cyb-1 missense and cyb-2 knock-out mutations suggested that the cyb-1 phenotype is not dominant negative but instead results from haplo-insufficiency, in which a single functional copy produces insufficient protein for full function. To prove that the G96E substitution is not dominant negative, we first overexpressed the mutant version of CYBG96E using the UBQ10prom in wild-type plants (expression confirmed by RT-PCR; see Method S2). This expression did not generate a cyb phenotype, which would be expected if the mutation were dominant negative (Figure 5f–h). We next determined that constitutive overexpression of wild-type CYB/At1g57620 in cyb-1 homozygotes prevented cytoplasmic body formation (Figure 5i–k). Immunoblotting analysis confirmed that the GLL23 isotype recognized by TUB-1A2 did not accumulate in wild-type seedlings that overexpressed the mutant CYBG96E gene or from cyb-1 mutants that overexpressed wild-type CYB (Figure S7). Taken together, these results indicated that loss-of-function mutations in At1g57620 were indeed responsible for the cyb phenotype and that haplo-insufficiency, rather than dominant negativity, explains the semi-dominance. We determined that CYB is localized both to the ER and to the Golgi. Using a transient expression system to drive expression of N-terminal fluorescent protein fusions (Li et al., CITATION), we found that both wild-type (SP–cYFP–CYB) and mutant (SP–cYFP–CYBG96E) proteins have a characteristic cortical ER distribution pattern and co-localize with the ER marker mCherry–HDEL (Figure 6a,c). However, in contrast with mutant CYBG96E, only wild-type CYB also localized to punctate structures that co-localized with the Golgi marker Man1–mCherry (Figure 6b,d). Thus, the G96E mutation, while rendering CYB non-functional, also affected its distribution, possibly through interference with its export from the ER. [[FIGURE]] We predicted that NUC protein should co-localize with GLL23. When co-expressed in the cyb-1 mutant, GOLD36/NUC–mRFP (Marti et al., CITATION) and cYFP–GLL23 were co-localized in the cyb compartments (Figure 7a). GOLD36/NUC–mRFP was also more broadly distributed throughout the ER and within the vacuole, which is its normal distribution pattern in wild-type cells (Figure 7b). Based on NUC's co-localization with GLL23 and the severe distortion of the perinuclear ER in nuc compared with the association of the smaller cyb compartments with the peripheral ER network, we postulated that NUC acts upstream of CYB in the trafficking of GLL23 and hypothesized that nuc cyb double mutants would be phenotypically nuc. Immunofluorescence analysis of 52 F2 segregants from a cross between homozygous nuc and cyb-1 plants identified 13 wild-type, 23 putative cyb-1 heterozygotes, six putative cyb-1 homozygotes and 10 nuc homozygotes (13:23:6:10). No F2 segregants contained both cyb and nuc structures. According to a chi-squared test analysis, the 13:23:6:10 segregation fits a 3:6:3:4 ratio predicted if the recessive nuc is epistatic to the semi-dominant cyb-1. Two of the 10 phenotypically nuc F2s were genotyped as double homozygotes using the following strategy. When crossed to wild-type plants, all the F1 progeny from these phenotypically nuc F2 plants showed the heterozygous cyb phenotype, and confirmed that the F2 parents were homozygous for cyb. All F3 segregants of these two lines had the nuc phenotype and their double mutant status was confirmed by crossing each line with cyb and nuc homozygotes; all F1 progeny (n = 12) from crosses with cyb-1 and nuc homozygotes were phenotypically cyb-1 and nuc, respectively. The fact that double mutants only form nuc structures demonstrated the epistatic relationship between nuc and cyb and supported the hypothesis that both genes are involved in the same pathway(s), with the cyb mutation affecting a process that is downstream of nuc. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia ecotype seeds were surface sterilized and plated on Petri plates that contained half strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium solidified with 1.2% agar. Seeds were cold-treated after plating for 48 h to synchronize germination. The plates were placed vertically in the growth chamber under continuous light at 21°C. The immunofluorescence procedure for mutant screening was as described previously (Whittington et al., CITATION). For general analysis, cotyledons from 10-day-old seedlings were processed for immunofluorescence by freeze shattering as described (Wasteneys et al., CITATION). Mouse anti-α-tubulin TUB-1A2 (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/life-science/cell-biology.html) was diluted 1:800. Other anti-tubulins included mouse anti-β-tubulin from chicken N357 (Amersham, www.gelifesciences.com), mouse anti-α-tubulin from Arabidopsis 4E3 (provided by Richard Williamson, Australian National University), and rat anti-α tyrosine-tubulin from yeast YL1/2 (Sera Lab, www.seralab.co.uk). Alexa Fluor® 488 goat anti-mouse (Molecular Probes, www.lifetechnologies.com) was used a secondary antibody (diluted 1:200). Cotyledons of 5–8-day-old seedlings were fixed for 1.5 h in 3% glutaraldehyde dissolved in 0.1 m potassium phosphate buffer, pH 6.8 and supplemented with 10−6 m CaCl2. Postfixation in 1% OsO4 was carried out at 4°C for 12 h. After dehydration in an ethanol series, cotyledons were embedded in Epon. For immunolabelling, cotyledons were fixed in a mixture of 3% formaldehyde and 1% glutaraldehyde dissolved in 50 mm piperazine-N,N′-bis(2-ethanesulfonic acid) (PIPES), pH 7.0, and supplemented with 10−6 m CaCl2. After dehydration in an ethanol series, samples were embedded in LR Gold™ (London Resin, www.polysciences.com). Thin sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate or treated with antibodies and viewed in a Philips EM 400 electron microscope. For immunogold labelling, thin sections were blocked in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) that contained 1% BSA and 50 mm glycine. The primary antibody TUB-1A2 was diluted 1:100. The secondary anti-mouse IgG conjugated to 10 nm gold (Sigma G7652) was diluted 1:10. Polyclonal anti-GFP was used at 1:150 followed by anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to 15 nm gold (BioCell, www.bbisolutions.com). Antibody incubation times were up to 2 h at 37°C. Confocal images were acquired on a Zeiss Pascal confocal laser scanning microscope, or with a Perkin-Elmer Ultraview VoX spinning disk confocal system. The 514-nm line of an argon laser and the 561-nm line of a diode-pumped solid-state (DPSS) laser were used for cYFP and RFP excitation, respectively. Post-acquisition image processing was performed using a Volocity or Zeiss laser scanning microscope (LSM) Image Browser and ImageJ (rsbweb.nih.gov/ij). The cDNA clone U16879 (ABRC) that contained GLL23 (and part of its 3′ UTR) in pENTR/SD/D–TOPO® was used for LR Clonase reaction with the Gateway® expression vector pEXP2–Dest (Invitrogen, www.lifetechnologies.com). The resulting clone was sequenced. To generate a truncated form of GLL23, a Phusion site-directed mutagenesis protocol was used in accordance with manufacturer's instructions (NEB). Recombinant untagged GLL23 was expressed in BL21 Codon Plus (DE3)–RIL cells. For nuclear extract preparation, nuclei were isolated from approximately 5 g (fresh weight) of above-ground tissues of 10-day-old seedlings in accordance with Dorweiler et al. (CITATION). Samples were resuspended in 50 μl of Laemmli buffer (60 mm Tris–HCl pH 6.8, 2% sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS), 10% glycerol, 5% β-mercaptoethanol, 0.01% bromophenol blue), boiled for 5 min and centrifuged for 5 min at 12 000 g before loading onto a 10% SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) gel. For total protein extracts, 10 10-day-old whole seedlings were frozen in liquid nitrogen, ground with a pre-chilled plastic pestle and boiled for 5 min in 150 μl of Laemmli buffer. Samples were centrifuged at 12 000 g for 5 min prior to analysis by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. Western blots were performed as described previously (Kawamura et al., CITATION), using monoclonal mouse TUB-1A2 (Sigma, dilution 1:800) or anti-GFP (dilution 1:3000; Roche, www.roche.com). For protein identification, the bands of interest were excised from the gel and subjected to tryptic peptide mass analysis with hybrid Q-TOF mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems, www.lifetechnologies.com) coupled to nano high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) system (Dionex, www.dionex.com). See Method S2. The Gateway® cloning strategy (Invitrogen) was used to generate C-terminal fluorescent protein fusions. GLL23 genomic fragment was amplified from Arabidopsis Col-0 genomic DNA using attB1 and attB2 primers (sequences shown in Table S2). To add full-length attB sites, a second round of amplification was performed with attB adapter primers (Table S2). A gel-purified attB PCR product was introduced into the pDONR221 vector (Invitrogen) using BP Clonase II (Invitrogen) in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. To create the C-terminal fusions with fluorescent markers under UBQ10prom, recombinant BP clones were sequenced and used for the LR Clonase reaction with the Gateway® pUBC–RFP destination vector (Grefen et al., CITATION). The LR Clonase reaction was set up with 75 ng of destination vector, 25 ng of entry clone and 1 μl of LR Clonase II (total reaction volume 5 μl) and incubated overnight at 25°C. All LR clones were verified through restriction digest analysis and sequencing and subsequently transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. To generate cYFP–GLL23, the UBQ10 promoter (UBQ10prom) and the sequence encoding the signal peptide and extreme C-terminus of the mature GLL23 were amplified and subcloned into the pBluescriptI KS (+) vector as the KpnI–SalI fragment. Next, the citrine YFP–coding sequence (flanked by glycine–alanine linkers) and the remaining part of the GLL23 sequence were amplified by PCR and inserted as SalI–XmaI and XmaI–SpeI fragments, respectively. All clones were verified through restriction digest analysis and sequencing. To generate cYFP–CYB, the CYB-coding sequence (without signal peptide) was amplified by PCR and inserted as XmaI–SpeI fragment into a pBluescriptI KS (+) vector that contained the UBQ10 promoter, a signal peptide (from GLL23) and cYFP. The same approach was used to clone the mutated version of CYB, using cyb-1 genomic DNA as a PCR template. The UBQ10prom-driven cYFP–GLL23 and cYFP–CYB constructs were subcloned into pCAMBIA2300 (that contained the 35S terminator sequence inserted as the SalI–PstI fragment) and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. To generate stable lines, A. thaliana Col-0 plants were transformed by floral dipping (Davis et al., CITATION). Transformants were selected on MS media that contained appropriate antibiotics (12.5 μg ml−1 Basta for RFP constructs and 25 μg ml−1 kanamycin for cYFP constructs). The Fast Agro-mediated Seedling Transformation (FAST) technique was used to transiently express fluorescent protein fusions in Arabidopsis cotyledons (Li et al., CITATION).
