!~ABS~! Correct positioning of membrane proteins is an essential process in eukaryotic organisms. The plant hormone auxin is distributed through intercellular transport and triggers various cellular responses. Auxin transporters of the PIN-FORMED (PIN) family localize asymmetrically at the plasma membrane (PM) and mediate the directional transport of auxin between cells. A fungal toxin, brefeldin A (BFA), inhibits a subset of guanine nucleotide exchange factors for ADP-ribosylation factor small GTPases (ARF GEFs) including GNOM, which plays a major role in localization of PIN1 predominantly to the basal side of the PM. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 19 ARF-related putative GTPases. However, ARF components involved in PIN1 localization have been genetically poorly defined. Using a fluorescence imaging-based forward genetic approach, we identified an Arabidopsis mutant, bfa-visualized exocytic trafficking defective1 (bex1), in which PM localization of PIN1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) as well as development is hypersensitive to BFA. We found that in bex1 a member of the ARF1 gene family, ARF1A1C, was mutated. ARF1A1C localizes to the trans-Golgi network/early endosome and Golgi apparatus, acts synergistically to BEN1/MIN7 ARF GEF and is important for PIN recycling to the PM. Consistent with the developmental importance of PIN proteins, functional interference with ARF1 resulted in an impaired auxin response gradient and various developmental defects including embryonic patterning defects and growth arrest. Our results show that ARF1A1C is essential for recycling of PIN auxin transporters and for various auxin-dependent developmental processes.
!~RES~! When PIN1–GFP-expressing wild-type plants were treated for a short time (50 µM, 1.5 h) with BFA, basally (rootward) localized PIN1–GFP accumulated in intracellular compartments (BFA bodies; CITATIONA, upper panel, CITATIONB). Longer treatment with BFA is known to cause relocation of PIN1 to the apical (shootward) PM (CITATION). Consistent with this, PIN1–GFP after long-term BFA treatment (50 µM, 12 h) was mainly detected at the PM in wild-type root vascular cells (CITATIONA, upper panel, CITATIONB). We reasoned that this treatment allows us to perform a directed screen for exocytosis-related components of the subcellular machinery. By screening approximately 39,200 ethylmethane sulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized M2 seedlings, we have identified a mutant in which clear agglomerations of PIN1–GFP signals were detected after the long-term BFA treatment, and named it bfa-visualized exocytosis defective1 (bex1; CITATIONA, B). Genetic crosses between bex1 mutant and wild-type plants as well as subsequent characterization of F1 seedlings revealed that 32 out of 33 F1 seedlings showed the bex1 mutant phenotype, indicating that bex1 is a dominant mutant. Fig. 1The bex1 mutant exhibits altered responses to BFA. (A) Localization of PIN1–GFP in untreated seedlings (left-hand panels) and seedlings treated with BFA (50 µM) in liquid media (middle and right-hand panels). Intracellular accumulations of PIN1–GFP in root vascular cells are more pronounced after 12 h BFA treatment in the bex1 mutant (lower right panel). (B) Quantification of intracellular PIN1–GFP accumulation after a short treatment (90 min) and longer treatment (12 h) with BFA (50 µM). (C) Effect of a lower concentration of BFA (10 µM) on PIN1–GFP localization. Whereas PIN1–GFP signals were mainly detected at the PM in wild-type root vascular cells (upper panels), the auxin efflux carrier accumulated in intracellular compartments (arrowheads) while its PM signals were reduced in bex1 (lower panels). (D) The frequency of PIN1–GFP agglomeration after treatment with a low concentration of BFA (10 µM). Scale bars = 10 µm. The bex1 mutant exhibits altered responses to BFA. (A) Localization of PIN1–GFP in untreated seedlings (left-hand panels) and seedlings treated with BFA (50 µM) in liquid media (middle and right-hand panels). Intracellular accumulations of PIN1–GFP in root vascular cells are more pronounced after 12 h BFA treatment in the bex1 mutant (lower right panel). (B) Quantification of intracellular PIN1–GFP accumulation after a short treatment (90 min) and longer treatment (12 h) with BFA (50 µM). (C) Effect of a lower concentration of BFA (10 µM) on PIN1–GFP localization. Whereas PIN1–GFP signals were mainly detected at the PM in wild-type root vascular cells (upper panels), the auxin efflux carrier accumulated in intracellular compartments (arrowheads) while its PM signals were reduced in bex1 (lower panels). (D) The frequency of PIN1–GFP agglomeration after treatment with a low concentration of BFA (10 µM). Scale bars = 10 µm. Treatment with a lower concentration of BFA (10 µM, 1 and 3 h) did not visibly diminish the PM localization of PIN1–GFP in the wild type (CITATIONC, upper panels). In contrast, under the same conditions, the bex1 mutant accumulated PIN1–GFP in intracellular compartments and the PM signal was clearly reduced (10 µM, 3 h: CITATIONC, lower panels, CITATIOND). This observation implies that intracellular trafficking from endosomes to the PM was affected by the bex1 mutation. To gain further insight into the intracellular trafficking defect, we performed a BFA washout experiment (Supplementary Fig. S1A). In wild-type root vascular cells, PIN1–GFP accumulated in BFA compartments after treatment with BFA (50 µM, 1.5 h), but the intracellular aggregates rapidly decreased and the PM signals were recovered when BFA was washed away (Supplementary Fig. S1A, upper panels). In contrast, in the bex1 mutant background, the recovery of PM signals was less clear after BFA washout (Supplementary Fig. S1A, lower panels). These results suggest that the bex1 mutation affects transport of PIN1–GFP, including exocytic trafficking, at the level of BFA-sensitive compartments. Next, we tested if the localization of PIN2 is also affected by bex1 mutation. Treatment with a low concentration of BFA (10 µM, 3 h) caused a moderate intracellular accumulation of PIN2 in wild-type root epidermal cells. In bex1 mutant cells, however, intracellular accumulation of PIN2 was more pronounced than in wild-type cells (CITATIOND). Consistent with this observation, when introduced in the bex1 mutant background, PIN2–GFP persisted more in the BFA compartment after BFA washout, in comparison with PIN2–GFP in control cells (Supplementary Fig. S1B). As it is known that BFA at high concentrations inhibits vacuolar targeting of PIN2 in the wild-type background (CITATION), we tested whether this process is hypersensitive in the bex1 mutant background. As shown in Supplementary Fig. S2, PIN2–GFP in the control line (PIN2-GFP; eir1) exhibited intracellular signals typical for vacuolar cargo proteins that can be visualized by keeping seedlings in darkness (CITATION). Consistent with previous observations (CITATION), a low concentration of BFA did not visibly interfere with vacuolar targeting of PIN2–GFP in the control line. In contrast, a low concentration of BFA dramatically reduced the vacuolar localization of GFP signals in the bex1 mutant background, suggesting that not only recycling to the PM but also vacuolar targeting of PIN2–GFP was hypersensitive to BFA (Supplementary Fig. S2). Fig. 2Molecular cloning reveals that bex1 contains a mutation in the ARF1A1C gene. (A) Map position of the bex1 mutation defined by map-based cloning. Relative positions of BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) contigs on chromosome 2 are shown. The numbers of recombinations between the bex1 locus and markers are indicated. (B) Gene structure of ARF1A1C with the position of nucleotide substitution. (C) Alignment of partial amino acid sequences of Arabidopsis ARF1A1C and small GTPases from yeast. (D) PIN2 immunostaining of wild-type, bex1 and transgenic plants expressing the ARF1A1CL34F construct, treated with 10 µM BFA for 3 h. Arrows indicate strongly agglomerated PIN2 signals. Molecular cloning reveals that bex1 contains a mutation in the ARF1A1C gene. (A) Map position of the bex1 mutation defined by map-based cloning. Relative positions of BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) contigs on chromosome 2 are shown. The numbers of recombinations between the bex1 locus and markers are indicated. (B) Gene structure of ARF1A1C with the position of nucleotide substitution. (C) Alignment of partial amino acid sequences of Arabidopsis ARF1A1C and small GTPases from yeast. (D) PIN2 immunostaining of wild-type, bex1 and transgenic plants expressing the ARF1A1CL34F construct, treated with 10 µM BFA for 3 h. Arrows indicate strongly agglomerated PIN2 signals. In order to identify a mutation responsible for bex1 phenotypes, we performed positional cloning based on the BFA-hypersensitive phenotype of PIN1–GFP intracellular accumulation. Utilizing a PCR-based single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping approach, we were able to identify a chromosomal location genetically linked to the BFA-hypersensitive phenotype of the bex1 mutant. As a result, we found a 42 kb region on chromosome 2 which always co-segregated with the bex1 locus (CITATIONA). Sequencing of genes in this interval revealed that the open reading frame At2g47170 encoding ARF1A1C had a point mutation, causing an amino acid substitution (L34F) in the gene product (CITATIONB, C). Amino acid sequence alignment of ARF1A1C with small G-proteins from yeast revealed that the mutated leucine residue is well conserved in different small G-proteins (CITATIONC), highlighting the potential importance of this region. Indeed, the site of bex1 mutation is located within a domain called switch 1, which is involved in a structural change of ARF1 upon GDP and GTP exchange (CITATION). Because the Arabidopsis genome encodes six members belonging to the ARF1A1 subclass, which are highly conserved in terms of amino acid sequence (98–99% identical to the ARF1A1C sequence), the bex1 mutation might have resulted in a dominant inhibitory mutation causing a relatively strong trafficking defect. To test this possibility, we created an ARF1A1C construct with bex1 mutation (ARF1A1CL34F) and introduced it into wild-type Arabidopsis plants under the control of the ARF1A1C promoter. This construct recapitulated bex1 phenotypes in terms of PIN2 localization (CITATIOND), indicating that the ARF1A1C L34F mutation is responsible for the BFA hypersensitivity. ARF1 is an evolutionarily conserved small GTPase protein, which regulates intracellular trafficking at the Golgi apparatus and endosomal compartments (CITATION). Currently available circumstantial evidence supports the roles of ARF1 in multiple trafficking processes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) and their potential developmental impact in plants (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Our result is thus consistent with previously published data and indicates a clear biological relevance of ARF1A1C function in PIN protein trafficking. In Arabidopsis root epidermal cells, ARF1A1C–GFP co-localizes with trans-Golgi network (TGN)/early endosome (EE) and Golgi apparatus markers (CITATION, CITATION). To examine the subcellular localization of ARF1A1C in more detail, we performed immunolabeling experiments using anti-ARF1A1C antibody on Arabidopsis root epidermal cells expressing ARF GEFs fused to fluorescent reporters. The control immunostaining with this antibody resulted in punctate staining, which overlapped well with ARF1A1C–GFP signals (CITATIONA, B). Fluorescent protein-fused ARF GEFs [i.e. BEN1–GFP, GNOM–GFP and GNL1–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)] overlapped with anti-ARF1 antibody staining (CITATIONA, B). Partial co-localization of ARF1 with GNOM–GFP suggests that some population of ARF1A1C localizes to GNOM–GFP-labeled compartments, which might represent recycling endosomes. In addition, as BEN1 and GNL1 mainly localize to the TGN/EE (CITATION) and Golgi apparatus (CITATION, CITATION), respectively, these results suggest that ARF1A1C localizes to intracellular compartments including the TGN/EE and Golgi apparatus, which are labeled with these ARF GEFs. Fig. 3ARF1A1C partially co-localizes with multiple ARF GEFs. (A) Double labeling of root epidermal cells expressing ARF GEFs tagged with fluorescent reporters and anti-ARF1A1C immunostaining. Fluorescence signals from XFPs were directly detected (green). Anti-ARF1A1C signals are shown in red. As a control, ARF1A1C–GFP was stained with anti-ARF1 antibody, revealing a major overlap between GFP signals and antibody staining. Scale bar = 5 µm. (B) Quantification of co-localization between anti-ARF1 antibody staining and XFP-fused ARF1 and ARF GEFs. Average values and the standard deviation of the correlation coefficient are indicated. ARF1A1C partially co-localizes with multiple ARF GEFs. (A) Double labeling of root epidermal cells expressing ARF GEFs tagged with fluorescent reporters and anti-ARF1A1C immunostaining. Fluorescence signals from XFPs were directly detected (green). Anti-ARF1A1C signals are shown in red. As a control, ARF1A1C–GFP was stained with anti-ARF1 antibody, revealing a major overlap between GFP signals and antibody staining. Scale bar = 5 µm. (B) Quantification of co-localization between anti-ARF1 antibody staining and XFP-fused ARF1 and ARF GEFs. Average values and the standard deviation of the correlation coefficient are indicated. Consistently, immunostaining experiments confirmed that ARF1A1C–GFP co-localizes with MIN7/BEN1 and a Golgi marker SEC21/γ-COP (CITATIONA; Supplementary Fig. S3). Notably, ARF1A1C did not co-localize with anti-BiP staining, which labels the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (Supplementary Fig. S3). When moderately expressed, ARF1L34F–GFP also co-localized with MIN7/BEN1 and SEC21/γ-COP, but not with BiP, suggesting that L34F mutation did not abolish its native subcellular localization (CITATIONA; Supplementary Fig. S3, middle panels). However, in the seedling roots with strong ARF1L34F–GFP florescence, GFP signals were often observed in agglomerated endosomes, which were labeled with MIN7/BEN1 and SEC21/γ-COP (CITATIONA; Supplementary Fig. S3). Consistently, immunoblotting experiments using anti-ARF1A1C antibody confirmed that ARF1L34F–GFP proteins were highly expressed in the transgenic lines, which showed relatively strong BFA-hypersensitive phenotypes (lines 1, 7 and 8: CITATIONB). In such ARF1L34F-overexpressing lines, albeit at low frequency (16% in line 1, n = 147; 12% in line 8, n = 57), seedling growth was severely retarded (CITATIONC). Taken together, these results suggest that L34F mutation did not primarily affect the subcellular localization of ARF1 at the TGN/EE and Golgi apparatus but overexpression of the mutated protein interfered with ARF1-regulated intracellular trafficking and caused severe developmental defects. Fig. 4Overexpression of ARF1A1C with the L34F mutation causes agglomeration of intracellular compartments. (A) Localization of the wild-type ARF1A1C–GFP and ARF1A1CL34F–GFP (green) with anti-MIN7/BEN1 antibody staining (red). ARF1L34F–GFP localization patterns in moderately expressing seedling roots (line 7) were similar to those of ARF1WT–GFP, whereas in the seedlings overexpressing ARF1L34F–GFP (line 1), GFP signals were agglomerated (right panel). Lines 7 and 8 also segregated seedlings with strong and agglomerated GFP signals. Scale bar = 5 µm. (B) Immunoblotting experiments confirm that ARF1L34F–GFP of the expected size was expressed in transgenic lines (lines 1, 7 and 8). Anti-ARF1A1C antibody mainly detected endogenous protein at around 20 kDa and ARF1–GFP at around 48 kDa (left panel). Anti-GFP antibody mainly detected ARF1A1C–GFP fusion proteins, which were specific to transgenic plants (right panel). (C) Morphology of vertically grown plantlets (10 d old). Severely affected ARF1L34F-GFP-expressing plantlets exhibited arrested or retarded growth phenotypes. Scale bars = 5 mm. Overexpression of ARF1A1C with the L34F mutation causes agglomeration of intracellular compartments. (A) Localization of the wild-type ARF1A1C–GFP and ARF1A1CL34F–GFP (green) with anti-MIN7/BEN1 antibody staining (red). ARF1L34F–GFP localization patterns in moderately expressing seedling roots (line 7) were similar to those of ARF1WT–GFP, whereas in the seedlings overexpressing ARF1L34F–GFP (line 1), GFP signals were agglomerated (right panel). Lines 7 and 8 also segregated seedlings with strong and agglomerated GFP signals. Scale bar = 5 µm. (B) Immunoblotting experiments confirm that ARF1L34F–GFP of the expected size was expressed in transgenic lines (lines 1, 7 and 8). Anti-ARF1A1C antibody mainly detected endogenous protein at around 20 kDa and ARF1–GFP at around 48 kDa (left panel). Anti-GFP antibody mainly detected ARF1A1C–GFP fusion proteins, which were specific to transgenic plants (right panel). (C) Morphology of vertically grown plantlets (10 d old). Severely affected ARF1L34F-GFP-expressing plantlets exhibited arrested or retarded growth phenotypes. Scale bars = 5 mm. Based on these results, we speculated that there was a possible role for ARF1A1C to function at multiple compartments together with several different ARF GEFs regulating intracellular trafficking processes. As shown in CITATIONA, the bex1 mutant overaccumulates PIN1–GFP in the BFA compartment upon treatment with BFA (10 µM, 3 h), whereas intracellular agglomeration of PIN1–GFP was not discernible in wild-type and ben1 seedling roots under the same conditions. BEN1 ARF GEF is involved in trafficking at the TGN/EE and required for PIN1–GFP accumulation in the BFA compartment (CITATION). If the bex1 mutation affects endocytic recycling of PIN1 at the same level as the site of BEN1 action and/or at a later step, we expect that the ben1 mutation is epistatic to bex1 in terms of endocytic recycling of PIN1 protein. Indeed, following BFA treatment, intracellular agglomeration in ben1;bex1 double mutant cells was less pronounced as compared with the bex1 mutant (CITATIONA), suggesting that BEN1 ARF GEF and BEX1/ARF1A1C function in an interconnected trafficking pathway. Fig. 5The ben1 mutation is epistatic to bex1 in terms of endocytic recycling of PIN1–GFP. (A) PIN1–GFP signals in untreated (upper panels) and BFA-treated (10 µM, 3 h, lower panels) wild-type, single mutants and ben1-1; bex1 double mutant seedlings. Scale bar = 10 µm. (B) Gross morphology of 38-day-old plants. Scale bar = 5 cm. The ben1 mutation is epistatic to bex1 in terms of endocytic recycling of PIN1–GFP. (A) PIN1–GFP signals in untreated (upper panels) and BFA-treated (10 µM, 3 h, lower panels) wild-type, single mutants and ben1-1; bex1 double mutant seedlings. Scale bar = 10 µm. (B) Gross morphology of 38-day-old plants. Scale bar = 5 cm. Given the localization of ARF1A1C in the early endosomal pathway and potential redundancy within the ARF1A1 subclass, we speculated that the phenotypes of the bex1 mutant might be enhanced by inactivation of the early endosomal ARF GEF, BEN1 (CITATION). Intriguingly, bex1 and ben1 single mutant plants had only mild growth defects whereas bex1; ben1 double homozygous plants were extremely small at maturity (CITATIONB), indicating the developmental importance of these two components. The BFA-hypersensitive PIN trafficking defect of bex1 prompted us to examine whether the mutant shows any auxin-related developmental defects. For this purpose, we grew bex1 plants on vertical plates with solid media containing various concentrations of BFA. Wild-type seedlings grown at moderate BFA concentration (e.g. 5 µM) showed only slight root growth inhibition, whereas bex1 mutant seedlings stopped growing under the same conditions (CITATIONA, B). Expression of ARF1A1CL34F in the wild-type background resulted in a similar growth defect on BFA-containing media, confirming the dominant effect of ARF1A1C/BEX1 L34F mutation on shoot and root development (CITATIONC). In the wild-type root tip, the DR5rev::GFP auxin response reporter (CITATION) was mainly detected in the quiescent center (QC) and columella root cap cells, and BFA treatment (25 µM, 20 h) only slightly reduced the GFP signals (CITATIOND). In contrast, in BFA-treated bex1 roots, DR5rev::GFP was more broadly expressed, indicating that the auxin response gradient was impaired (CITATIOND). Notably, bex1 seedlings showed normal sensitivity to the auxin transport inhibitor N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA; CITATIONA). Thus it seems that bex1 mutants are specifically compromised in intracellular trafficking processes. Fig. 6Functional interference with ARF1A1C affects plant growth and development. (A) Gross morphology of seedlings grown on vertical solid plates with BFA (5 µM) and NPA (3 µM). Note that the bex1 mutant does not grow in the presence of a low concentration of BFA. (B) Root length of wild-type and bex1 seedlings grown for 5 d in the presence of different concentrations of BFA. (C) Root length of wild-type and T2 seedlings of the ARF1A1CL34F-GFP transgenic line grown vertically on BFA-containing solid plates (5 µM). Note that the BFA-hypersensitive phenotype of bex1 was recapitulated by the pARF1A1C::ARF1A1CL34F-GFP transgene. (D) Pattern of auxin responses as visualized by DR5rev::GFP expression in wild-type and bex1 mutant seedlings grown on control media (left-hand panels) and BFA-containing media (25 µM, 20 h). The signal intensity of GFP is shown as color coding. Scale bar = 50 µm. Functional interference with ARF1A1C affects plant growth and development. (A) Gross morphology of seedlings grown on vertical solid plates with BFA (5 µM) and NPA (3 µM). Note that the bex1 mutant does not grow in the presence of a low concentration of BFA. (B) Root length of wild-type and bex1 seedlings grown for 5 d in the presence of different concentrations of BFA. (C) Root length of wild-type and T2 seedlings of the ARF1A1CL34F-GFP transgenic line grown vertically on BFA-containing solid plates (5 µM). Note that the BFA-hypersensitive phenotype of bex1 was recapitulated by the pARF1A1C::ARF1A1CL34F-GFP transgene. (D) Pattern of auxin responses as visualized by DR5rev::GFP expression in wild-type and bex1 mutant seedlings grown on control media (left-hand panels) and BFA-containing media (25 µM, 20 h). The signal intensity of GFP is shown as color coding. Scale bar = 50 µm. A point mutation in the domain responsible for GDP/GTP exchange, critical for regulating ARF1 function, renders the protein locked in a GDP- or GTP-bound state (CITATION, CITATION). Expression of ARF1T31N, a GDP-locked mutant, has a dominant negative effect, resulting in a more dispersed localization pattern of the COPI component in plant cells (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. S4A). Also, ARF1Q71L, a GTP-locked mutant, inhibits root growth and root hair formation when expressed in Arabidopsis roots (CITATION). We tried to uncover the additional functions of ARF1, in terms of PIN trafficking and development, by overexpressing the mutated ARF1A1C. When the GTP-locked ARF1A1CQ71L mutant fused to fluorescent protein was expressed under a heat shock promoter, PIN1 protein accumulated in agglomerated endosomes, which were reminiscent of the BFA compartments (Supplementary Fig. S4B). In contrast, when wild-type ARF1A1C or GDP-locked versions of ARF1A1C (T31N) fused to fluorescent proteins were expressed, no drastic change was observed in PIN1 localization (Supplementary Fig. S4B). These results suggest that expression of the ARF1Q71L mutation has a strong inhibitory effect on PIN1 exocytosis. As expression of the mutated ARF1 also inhibits PIN2 trafficking (CITATION), whose polar localization is essential for root gravitropism (CITATION), we tested if the ARF1 mutants caused agravitropic root phenotypes. Overexpression of the ARF1 wild-type form did not interfere with root bending, whereas expression of ARF1 mutants with either a Q71L or T31N mutation reduced root bending (Supplementary Fig. S5A, B). Notably, this effect was not due to arrested root growth (Supplementary Fig. S5C), suggesting that ARF1 mutations abolished a trafficking process(es), which is physiologically relevant for asymmetric root growth. To test further the developmental impact of the mutated ARF1A1C, the ARF1A1CQ71L mutant was expressed under the control of a strong promoter from the RPS5a gene (CITATION). When the wild-type form of ARF1A1C driven by the RPS5a promoter was expressed as a control, the morphology of transgenic embryos was not affected (CITATIONA). In contrast, when ARF1A1CQ71L was expressed, the cell arrangement of the hypophysis (the basal part of embryos forming the embryonic root) was disorganized and cotyledon primordia did not develop (CITATIONB). Fig. 7ARF1 mutation causes intracellular agglomeration of PIN1 and modifies auxin-dependent gene expression. (A, B) Effects of ARF1 expression driven by the RPS5a::Gal4-VP16 activator line (ACT RPS5A) genetically crossed with UAS::ARF1WT (A) and UAS::ARF1Q71L (B). Expression of the GTP-locked version of ARF1A1C (Q71L) causes severe embryonic patterning defects. Magnified views indicate the basal parts of embryos. (C, D) PIN1 immunolocalization (Cy3, red) in developing embryos at various stages. Nuclei are visualized with a counterstain [4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), blue]. Abbreviations are: 16, 16-cell EP stage; 32, 32-cell EP stage; g, globular stage; e, early heart stage. (E, F) Auxin distribution maxima as visualized by the DR5rev::GFP reporter in RPS5>>ARF1WT (E) and RPS5>>ARF1Q71L (F) embryos. (G, H) Expression pattern of WOX5::GFP in RPS5>>ARF1WT (G) and RPS5>>ARF1Q71L (H) embryos. Scale bars = 20 µm. ARF1 mutation causes intracellular agglomeration of PIN1 and modifies auxin-dependent gene expression. (A, B) Effects of ARF1 expression driven by the RPS5a::Gal4-VP16 activator line (ACT RPS5A) genetically crossed with UAS::ARF1WT (A) and UAS::ARF1Q71L (B). Expression of the GTP-locked version of ARF1A1C (Q71L) causes severe embryonic patterning defects. Magnified views indicate the basal parts of embryos. (C, D) PIN1 immunolocalization (Cy3, red) in developing embryos at various stages. Nuclei are visualized with a counterstain [4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), blue]. Abbreviations are: 16, 16-cell EP stage; 32, 32-cell EP stage; g, globular stage; e, early heart stage. (E, F) Auxin distribution maxima as visualized by the DR5rev::GFP reporter in RPS5>>ARF1WT (E) and RPS5>>ARF1Q71L (F) embryos. (G, H) Expression pattern of WOX5::GFP in RPS5>>ARF1WT (G) and RPS5>>ARF1Q71L (H) embryos. Scale bars = 20 µm. To gain further insights into the molecular basis of those developmental defects, we localized PIN1 in the malformed embryos. In control specimens, the typical polar localization of PIN1 protein was detected at the 16-cell EP (embryo proper) stage and subsequently (CITATIONC). When mutated ARF1A1CQ71L was expressed, intracellular aberrant PIN1 signals were pronounced from the early stage onwards, with gradual loss of PIN1 basal localization in provascular cells and disorganization of embryonic patterning (CITATIOND). Consistent with PIN1 localization defects causing reduced directional auxin transport, the typical asymmetric auxin accumulation patterns as visualized by the DR5rev::GFP auxin response reporter (CITATION) were disrupted in ARF1A1CQ71L embryos (CITATIONF). Expression of another auxin-dependent developmental marker, WOX5::GFP (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), which in the wild-type situation is typically confined to lens-shaped QC cells (CITATIONG), was dispersed in ARF1A1CQ71L embryos (CITATIONH). Taken together, our data indicate that disruption of ARF1 function has a strong impact on PIN1 trafficking, asymmetric auxin distribution and plant development already at its early, embryonic stages.
!~MM~! The following Arabidopsis thaliana mutants and transgenic lines have been described previously: PIN1-GFP (CITATION), ben1-1; PIN1-GFP (CITATION), DR5rev::GFP (CITATION), PIN2-GFP; eir1 (CITATION), pARF1::ARF1-GFP (CITATION), UAS::ARF1WT UAS::ARF1Q71L (CITATION), HSP::ARF1WT-GFP, HSP::ARF1Q71L-YFP, HSP::ARF1T31N-CFP (CITATION), WOX5::GFP (CITATION), ACT RPS5A (CITATION), GNOM-GFP (CITATION) and GNL1-YFP (CITATION, CITATION). Plants were grown as described previously (CITATION). For genetic screening, M2 seedlings, harboring PIN1-GFP descending from approximately 1,200 M1 plants, were treated with 50–100 µM BFA for 16–20 h. Approximately 39,200 M2 seedlings were inspected by epifluorescence microscopy. PIN2-GFP; eir1 was introduced into the bex1 mutant by genetic crossing. DR5rev::GFP and WOX5::GFP were introduced into the ACT RPS5A line by genetic crossing. Measurements of root length and clearing of embryos were performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Treatment with BFA (Invitrogen B7450) was performed as described previously (CITATION). Whole-mount immunolocalization on Arabidopsis roots was performed as described previously (CITATION). Antibodies were diluted as follows: rabbit anti-PIN1 (1 : 1,000) (CITATION), goat anti-PIN1 (1 : 400; Santa Cruz sc-27163), rabbit anti-PIN2 (1 : 1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-ARF1A1C (1: 1,000; agrisera AS08325), rabbit anti-SEC21 (1 : 1,000, agrisera AS08327), rabbit anti-BiP2 (1 : 1,000, agrisera AS09481), mouse anti-GFP (1 : 1,000; Roche 11 814 460 001), Alexa 488-conjugated secondary anti-mouse (1116 : 6 : 6 : 00; Invitrogen A11029), Cy3-conjugated secondary anti-rabbit (1 : 600; Sigma C2306) and DyLight 649-conjugated secondary anti-goat (1 : 400; Jackson Immuno Research 705-495-147) antibodies. For detection of GFP in the vacuole, seedlings were kept in darkness for 5 h to suppress degradation of GFP (CITATION, CITATION). Fluorescence signals were imaged using Olympus FV1000, Carl Zeiss LSM5 exciter or LSM710 confocal microscopes. For quantification of intracellular PIN1–GFP accumulation, the number of agglomerated PIN1–GFP signals (cross-sectional area >1 µm2) in each root vascular cell was scored using imageJ software (National Institute of Health, USA). At least 87 cells from each treatment were analyzed. For co-localization studies, confocal images of root epidermal cells were acquired with a ×63 oil immersion objective lens (NA 1.4). Images from at least three roots for each combination were subjected to analysis. The co-localization coefficient was calculated with ZEN 2009 software (Carl Zeiss). Immunoblot analysis was performed essentially as described (CITATION). Protein extracts were prepared from whole wild-type and transgenic plants (13 d old) with modified TG150 buffer (prepared with 0.5% Triton X-100 and 0.1% Tween-20 instead of 0.1% Triton X-100) and equal amounts of extracts (20 µg) were separated by SDS–PAGE (11% acrylamide). Antibodies were diluted as follows: rabbit anti-ARF1A1C (1 : 1,000; agrisera AS08325), mouse anti-GFP antibody (1 : 1,000; Roche 11 814 460 001), anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase (HRP; 1 : 5,000; GE NA 934VS) and anti-mouse HRP (1 : 2,000; GE NA 931VS). Polymorphic F2 seedlings were obtained from crossing the bex1 mutant with a Landsberg erecta ecotype. For mapping, we selected bex1 homozygous and segregating wild-type plants based on the phenotypes at the F2 and/or F3 generations by inspecting BFA-hypersensitive PIN1–GFP localization or growth defects. DNA was isolated from a total of 399 F2 plants or their progeny and subjected to polymorphism analysis. The bex1 mutation was mapped between two markers, F14M4-MunI (19.348 Mb) and T8I13-MboII (19.390 Mb), on chromosome 2. To detect the bex1 mutation by PCR genotyping, the relevant region was amplified by mutagenic PCR using primers At2g47170-71F-XmnI, 5′-GTCTCGATGCTGCTGGTAAGACGAATAT-3′; and At2g47170-211R, 5′-CAACAGTAAATCACATCCATCATACA-3′, and digested with XmnI restriction enzyme. To generate the pARF1A1C::ARF1A1CL34F-GFP construct, the ARF1A1C gene including 2.07 kb of upstream sequence was amplified from bex1 genomic DNA with the following primers: ARF1A1C-pro2071GWB1F, 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCAGTAACAAGACGGATCCTT-3′; and ARF1A1C-C-fusion-GWB2R, 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTGCCTGCGAAACATACATTCA-3′. The PCR product was cloned into a binary vector pK7FWg.0 (https://gateway.psb.ugent.be/) (CITATION) by using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The construct was transformed into Col-0 wild-type plants, and transgenic plants were selected on solid media containing kanamycin (25 mg l−1). To generate P35S::BEN1-GFP transgenic plants, the P35S::BEN1-GFP region from pEPA-cBEN1-GFP (CITATION) was cloned into the binary vector pMLBART (CITATION) to generate pMLBART-cBEN1-GFP. The construct was transformed into ben1-2 plants (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on solid medium containing phosphinothricin (15 mg l−1).
