!~ABS~! The trans-Golgi network (TGN) is a tubular–vesicular organelle that matures from the trans cisternae of the Golgi apparatus. In plants, the TGN functions as a central hub for three trafficking pathways: the secretory pathway, the vacuolar trafficking pathway and the endocytic pathway. Here, we describe a novel TGN-localized membrane protein, CONTINUOUS VASCULAR RING (COV1), that is crucial for TGN function in Arabidopsis. The COV1 gene was originally identified from the stem vascular patterning mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana. However, the molecular function of COV1 was not identified. Fluorescently tagged COV1 proteins co-localized with the TGN marker proteins, SYNTAXIN OF PLANTS 4 (SYP4) and vacuolar-type H+-ATPase subunit a1 (VHA-a1). Consistently, COV1-localized compartments were sensitive to concanamycin A, a specific inhibitor of VHA. Intriguingly, cov1 mutants exhibited abnormal Golgi morphologies, including a reduction in the number of Golgi cisternae and a reduced association between the TGN and the Golgi apparatus. A deficiency in COV1 also resulted in a defect in vacuolar protein sorting, which was characterized by the abnormal accumulation of storage protein precursors in seeds. Moreover, we found that the development of an idioblast, the myrosin cell, was abnormally increased in cov1 leaves. Our results demonstrate that the novel TGN-localized protein COV1 is required for Golgi morphology, vacuolar trafficking and myrosin cell development.
!~RES~! To determine the subcellular localization of COV1, we constructed translational fusions of either sGFP (green fluorescent protein) or TagRFP (red fluorescent protein) with the genomic COV1 sequence (Fig. 1A), and introduced each of them into cov1-1 mutants. Stereomicroscopic analysis showed that COV1-sGFP was expressed throughout the whole plant examined (Supplementary Fig. S1). Both COV1-sGFP and COV1-TagRFP complemented the defects in root growth and stem elongation in the cov1-1 mutant (Fig. 1B). This indicates that COV1–sGFP and COV1–TagRFP are functional. Confocal microscopic analysis of the transgenic plants revealed that the fluorescently tagged COV1 proteins were localized on mobile punctate structures (Fig. 1C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify the COV1-localized structures, we stained cells expressing COV1–sGFP with the endocytic tracer FM4-64 (CITATION). COV1–sGFP and FM4-64 rapidly co-localized at the punctate structures after 6 min of staining (Fig. 2A–C). One of the earliest organelles labeled by FM4-64 is the TGN (CITATION); therefore, this observation suggested that COV1–sGFP localized at the TGN. To verify this, we treated seedlings expressing COV1–sGFP with brefeldin A (BFA), which is a fungal toxin that causes an agglomeration of the TGN and endosomes to form BFA compartments in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Co-localization of COV1–sGFP with the BFA compartments would support the notion that COV1–sGFP localized at the TGN. The results showed that BFA treatment caused the relocation of COV1–sGFP to the core of BFA compartments that are labeled by FM4-64 (Supplementary Fig. S2). This was consistent with a rapid co-localization of COV1–sGFP and FM4-64, and strongly suggested that COV1–sGFP localized to the TGN.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We further confirmed the subcellular localization of COV1 by performing co-localization experiments using well-established fluorescent organelle markers. Transgenic Arabidopsis lines stably expressing each of the TGN markers [monomeric RFP (mRFP)–SYP43 (CITATION), VHA-a1–mRFP and VHA-a1–sGFP (CITATION)] and the prevacuolar compartment (PVC) and tonoplast marker [GFP–PEP12 (CITATION)] were used in combination with either COV1–sGFP or COV1–TagRFP. Confocal microscopy visualization showed that COV1–sGFP co-localized with mRFP–SYP43 (Fig. 2D–F) and VHA-a1–mRFP (Fig. 2G–I). COV1–TagRFP co-localized with VHA-a1–sGFP (Fig. 2J–L). In contrast, no co-localization was detected between COV1–TagRFP and GFP–PEP12 (Fig. 2M–O). In addition, a transient expression analysis in tobacco leaf cells revealed that COV1–TagRFP did not co-localize with ST–GFP, a trans-Golgi marker (CITATION) (Fig. 2P–R). Furthermore, COV1–sGFP punctate structures in Arabidopsis were sensitive to ConcA, a V-ATPase inhibitor (Fig. 3), which caused aggregation of the TGN (CITATION). Taken together, these results indicate that COV1 is localized to the TGN.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Previous studies reported that TGN-localized proteins were required for the maintenance of normal morphologies of the Golgi and TGN (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, the TGN localization of COV1 prompted us to investigate the ultrastructure of the Golgi apparatus and the TGN in the cov1 mutant. We found that the TGN did not associate with Golgi stacks in cov1-2 (Fig. 4A), suggesting that COV1 was required for the association of the TGN with the trans side of the Golgi apparatus. In addition, the number of cisternae per Golgi stack in cov1-2 was less than that in wild-type Ler (Fig. 4B). However, the length of Golgi cisternae in cov1-2 was indistinguishable from that in Ler (Fig. 4C). These observations suggest that COV1 is involved in the organization of the Golgi apparatus and the TGN.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The TGN localization of COV1 suggested that COV1 could be involved in protein sorting at the TGN. To examine the involvement of COV1 in vacuolar protein transport, we analyzed the transport of major storage proteins (12S globulin and 2S albumin) into protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) in cov1 seeds. A defect in the transport of storage proteins should result in an abnormal accumulation of precursor forms of 12S globulin and 2S albumin in seeds and their missorting out of cells (CITATION). Immunoblot analysis showed that cov1-1, cov1-2 and their F1 seeds (cov1 F1) abnormally accumulated the precursor forms in their seeds (Fig. 5A), suggesting a defect in transport into the PSVs. Immunofluorescent analysis with anti-12S globulin antibody revealed a positive signal surrounding cells in cov1-1 and cov1-2, in addition to the strong signal in the PSVs within cells (Fig. 5B). These results indicate that 12S globulin is abnormally secreted out of the mutant cells in cov1-1 and cov1-2 seeds, demonstrating that COV1 functions in the efficient transport of vacuolar proteins. cov1-2 exhibited more severe defects in vacuolar protein sorting than cov1-1. This is consistent with other phenotypes; cov1-2 showed more severe defects in stem vascular patterning (CITATION), stem elongation (CITATION) and root growth (Supplementary Fig. S3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] COV1 was previously shown to be involved in the vascular patterning in stems, but not in leaves and cotyledons (CITATION). Consistent with this report, our quantitative analysis of the number of vein junctions in a leaf revealed that the complexity of vascular development in leaves of cov1-1 and cov1-2 is indistinguishable from that in the wild type (Fig. 6A). Apparent vein patterning in a whole leaf in each mutant is similar to that of the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S4). However, in a more detailed observation, significant portions of both cov1-1 (86%, n = 14) and cov1-2 (50%, n = 12) leaves showed the V-shaped vein splice at the leaf tips (Fig. 6B, arrows), which was not observed in Ler leaves (0%, n = 10). In addition, cov1 mutants exhibited abnormal tangled branches of leaf veins (Fig. 6B, arrowheads). These results suggest that COV1 functions in vein patterning in leaves.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the development of the myrosin cell in cov1 mutants, because we previously found an abnormally increased development of myrosin cells in the defective mutants of SYP2 family proteins (CITATION, CITATION). To evaluate the development of myrosin cells quantitatively, we measured the accumulation levels of the myrosin cell protein β-thioglucoside glucohydrolase 1 (TGG1), which is one of the two major myrosinases in Arabidopsis (CITATION, CITATION). Both cov1-1 and cov1-2 leaves accumulated higher levels of TGG1 than wild-type leaves (Fig. 7A). These results suggest that COV1 is required for myrosin cell differentiation in leaves.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To analyze the distribution pattern of myrosin cells in a whole leaf, we developed a transgenic line (MYR001:GUS) that specifically expresses the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter in myrosin cells. The promoter of the MYR001:GUS construct was derived from the 2 kb upstream region of At3g52850 (VSR1). GUS-stained cells were distributed along the leaf vein in the wild-type background (Fig. 7B; Supplementary Fig. S5, MYR001:GUS). These cells were easily stained by Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) (Supplementary Fig. S6A), which was previously used to stain the myrosin cells (CITATION). To confirm further the specificity of the MYR001 promoter, we compared the expression pattern of MYR001:TagRFP (TagRFP was distributed in the nucleus and cytosol) with that of pTGG2:VENUS-2sc (VENUS-2sc was localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and vacuole). The TGG2 promoter was used previously as a specific promoter for myrosin cells (CITATION). Cells expressing MYR001:TagRFP also expressed pTGG2:VENUS-2sc at the inner tissue layer of leaves (Supplementary Fig. S6B). These results confirmed that the MYR001 promoter was specific for myrosin cells. We introduced the MYR001:GUS reporter into cov1-2. The cov1-2 leaves had an increased number of myrosin cells that formed denser network patterns (Fig. 7B; Supplementary Fig. S5, cov1-2 MYR001:GUS). Collectively, our results suggest that COV1 is required for the proper development of myrosin cells.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) was used as the wild type. Two mutant alleles of COV1, cov1-1 and cov1-2, were previously reported (CITATION). These are probably not null mutants but each of them possesses a single amino acid substitution. We crossed a plant that was homozygous for cov1-1 with homozygotes of cov1-2 to obtain cov1 F1 seeds. We used the following transgenic Arabidopsis lines: mRFP–SYP43 (CITATION), VHA-a1–mRFP (CITATION), VHA-a1–sGFP (CITATION) and GFP—PEP12 (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized with 70% ethanol and then sown onto 0.5% (w/v) Gellan Gum (Wako) that contained 1% (w/v) sucrose and Murashige and Skoog medium (Wako). The seeds were incubated at 4°C for 3–5 d to break seed dormancy, and were grown at 22°C for 20 d under continuous light (100 µE s−1 m−2). The plants were transferred onto vermiculite for subsequent growth. Translational fusions between the cDNA for fluorescent proteins and COV1 (At2g20120) were generated by the technique of fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins [FTFLP (CITATION)] using the following primer sets: COV1GF-F, COV1-sGFP/TagRFP-1, COV1-sGFP/TagRFP-2, COV1-sGFP/TagRFP-3, COV1-sGFP/TagRFP-4 and COV1GF-R. The cDNAs encoding GFP and TagRFP were inserted downstream of COV1. The amino acid linker between the fluorescent proteins and COV1 was GGGGGA. The amplified DNA COV1-sGFP and COV1-TagRFP fragments were cloned into the pENTR D-TOPO plasmid (Invitrogen) using the TOPO reaction. We introduced these plasmids into binary vectors, pBGW and FAST-R01 (CITATION), by the LR reaction, respectively. To generate the pTGG2:VENUS construct, the 2 kb promoter region of At5g25980 (TGG2) and the vacuole-targeting VENUS sequence (CITATION) were cloned into pDONR P4-P1R (Invitrogen) and pENTR D-TOPO, respectively. Subsequently, these two plasmids were introduced into the binary vector R4pGWB513 (CITATION) by the LR reaction to generate pTGG2:Venus. To generate the MYR001:GUS construct, the 2 kb promoter region of At3g52850 (VSR1) was amplified, and the 35S promoter region of the binary vector pBI121 was replaced with the amplified fragment using restriction enzymes. To generate the MYR001:TagRFP construct, the same region of At3g52850 (VSR1) was cloned into pENTR D-TOPO. Next, we introduced this plasmid into the binary vector pGWB459 (CITATION) using an LR reaction. Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101) was transformed with these constructs. Plants were infected with the bacteria by the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 seeds were selected in medium containing 10 mg l−1 BASTA, 25 mg l−1 hygromycin B or 100 mg l−1 kanamycin. Primer sets used are presented in Supplementary Table S1. Crosses were performed to generate cov1-2 MYR001:GUS. To visualize BFA compartments, the COV1–sGFP-expressing seedlings were stained with 5 µM FM4-64 for 6 min, followed by 1 h incubation in 50 µM BFA at room temperature before proceeding to confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). For ConcA treatment, seedlings were incubated in 2 µM ConcA for 30 min. The fluorescence of transgenic plants was inspected with a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM780; Carl Zeiss). The data were processed using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). Cotyledons were harvested from wild-type and mutant plants at 5 d after germination. Ultrastructural analysis was conducted by the Tokai Electron Microscopy service using the freeze-substitution fixation method. Procedures for microscopic analysis were essentially as described previously (CITATION). SDS–PAGE and immunoblot analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). Antibodies used are anti-TGG1 (diluted 5,000-fold) (CITATION), anti-12S globulin (diluted 10,000-fold) (CITATION) and anti-2S3P (diluted 5,000-fold) (CITATION). The methods of preparation of thin sections and the immunoflouorescence analysis were slightly different from those described previously (CITATION). Dry seeds were fixed with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 0.75% glutaraldehyde in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer (pH 7.4) containing 10% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) at room temperature for 2 h. After washing with 0.05 M cacodylate buffer (pH 7.4), these tissues were dehydrated with dimethylformamide and embedded in LR white resin at −20°C. Sections were cut on an ultramicrotome (Leica, Reichert Division) for both light microscopic and electron microscopic analyses. The thin sections were fixed on MAS (Matsunami adhesive silane)-coated glass slides (Matsunami Glass Ind.) to perform further analyses. For the immunofluorescence analysis, after incubation in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; 10 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.4 and 8.5% NaCl) containing 1% bovine serum albumin (Sigma) for 30 min, the slides were incubated with anti-12S globulin antibody (diluted 200-fold in PBS) at 4°C overnight. After washing three times with PBS for 5 min, the slides were incubated with secondary antibodies, Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-rabbit IgG (H+L) (Molecular Probes), for 2 h at room temperature. The secondary antibodies were diluted 250-fold. After washing three times with PBS for 5 min, the slides were examined with a fluorescence microscope. True leaves were harvested from wild-type and mutant plants at 30 d after germination. Analysis of the vein pattern was performed as described previously (CITATION). True leaves were harvested from wild-type and mutant plants at 15 d after germination. Samples were first placed into ice-cold acetone for 15 min and then into GUS staining solution containing 0.5 mg ml−1 X-Gluc, 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 0.5–5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.5–5 mM potassium ferrocyanide and 0.1% Triton X-100. Samples in the GUS staining solution were placed under a vacuum and incubated at room temperature for 12–24 h. After GUS staining of true leaves at 19 d after germination, samples were cut into slices with a razor blade and then fixed with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, 0.05 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.4, and 10% DMSO. Procedures for microscopic analysis were essentially as described previously (CITATION). Ultrathin sections of 1 µm were stained with CBB.
