!~ABS~! Although telomere-binding proteins constitute an essential part of telomeres, in vivo data indicating the existence of a structure similar to mammalian shelterin complex in plants are limited. Partial characterization of a number of candidate proteins has not identified true components of plant shelterin or elucidated their functional mechanisms. Telomere repeat binding (TRB) proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana bind plant telomeric repeats through a Myb domain of the telobox type in vitro, and have been shown to interact with POT1b (Protection of telomeres 1). Here we demonstrate co-localization of TRB1 protein with telomeres in situ using fluorescence microscopy, as well as in vivo interaction using chromatin immunoprecipitation. Classification of the TRB1 protein as a component of plant telomeres is further confirmed by the observation of shortening of telomeres in knockout mutants of the trb1 gene. Moreover, TRB proteins physically interact with plant telomerase catalytic subunits. These findings integrate TRB proteins into the telomeric interactome of A. thaliana.
!~RES~! Although a possible association of GFP–TRB1 (35Spro:GFP-TRB1) with the telomere was suggested previously (CITATIONet al., 2010), whether the nuclear speckles are directly associated with telomeres remained to be determined. Here, we took advantage of the well-established protocol of Nicotiana benthamiana leaf infiltration and the fact that N. benthamiana has longer telomeres that are easier to visualize compared to Arabidopsis. As shown in FigureCITATION(c), the localization of transiently transformed TRB1 in N. benthamiana leaf is similar to that observed in Arabidopsis cell cultures, as was shown by CITATIONet al. (2010), labelling the whole nucleus, with strong nucleolar signal and relatively strong nuclear speckles. Nuclei from transformed leaves were isolated and used for telomere peptide nucleic acid FISH. Fluorescence from GFP–TRB1 remained very bright during the isolation procedure; however, a gentle denaturation step was necessary during the FISH protocol to preserve the integrity of the GFP signal. These FISH results showed that telomeres co-localize or associate with TRB1 speckles in 59% and 31% of cases, respectively, with 90% association overall (FigureCITATION and Table S1). Telomeric signals sometimes appeared as double dots connected to the TRB1 foci (FigureCITATIONd, images 1, 2 and 3), but in other cases co-localize directly with TRB1 (FigureCITATIONd, images 4 and 5). These results provide in situ evidence of telomere occupancy by TRB1. Co-localization of TRB protein with telomeric probe.Nuclei isolated from N. benthamiana were transformed with 35Spro:GFP-TRB1 construct and hybridized with telomeric peptide nucleic acid (PNA) Cy3-labelled probe.(a) Co-localization between GFP–TRB1 nuclear speckles (green) and telomeric PNA probe (red) is detectable in most of the foci.(b) Control experiment without telomeric probe showing very little background present in the red channel.(c) Confocal image of GFP–TRB1 expression in an N. benthamiana leaf without any further sample processing.(d) Details of co-localizing speckles; ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) was used to create intensity plots for red and green channels. The observed co-localization of TRB1 with telomeric tracts, together with our previous detailed analyses of TRB1 binding to telomeric DNA in vitro (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2009), suggest the possibility that TRB1 protein directly recognizes telomeric repeats and belongs to the core components that shelter telomeres. We used a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay to isolate DNA sequences associated with TRB1 protein. As source material, we used formaldehyde cross-linked seedlings of Arabidopsis plants stably transformed with a TRB1–GFP construct driven by the native promoter (TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP) (CITATIONet al., 2010). Despite using the native promoter, enhanced levels of TRB1–GFP protein were observed (see below). TRB1–GFP protein was immunoprecipitated from purified nuclei using GFP-Trap A matrix, which contains a single variable antibody domain that recognizes GFP. Non-specific binding of TRB1-GFP to the GFP-Trap A matrix was excluded by precise detection of GFP in all fractions (input, bound, unbound, wash, elution). We have shown that TRB1, but not TRB1-GFP is washed out (Figure S1). DNA co-purifying with TRB1–GFP was dot-blotted onto nylon membranes, and visualized by hybridization with radioactively labelled telomeric probe. FigureCITATION shows that TRB1 protein is indeed associated with telomeric sequence in vivo, as telomeric sequence was repeatedly detected in TRB1–GFP but not wild-type samples. To demonstrate that the observed enrichment is indeed due to sequence-specific association and not due to the high copy number of the telomeric DNA, we hybridized DNA co-purified with TRB–GFP with a centromeric probe. As our previous results (CITATIONet al., 2010) showed localization of TRB1 protein in the nucleus and nucleolus, another candidate sequence investigated for association with TRB1 was ribosomal DNA (rDNA). Only negligible enrichment of the centromeric or 18S rDNA probe, in contrast to significant enrichment of the telomeric probe, was observed when comparing each wild-type to TRB–GFP sample (Figure S2). TRB1 proteins are associated with telomeric sequence in vivo.DNA cross-linked with TRB1 protein was isolated by ChIP analysis using GFP-Trap A matrix from wild-type (Wt) and TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP plants. Hybridization of isolated DNA with radioactively labelled telomeric oligonucleotide (CCCTAAA)4 in three biologically and technically replicated experiments confirmed the hypothesis that TRB1 protein is associated with telomeric sequence in vivo. As a control, telomeric oligonucleotide (TTTAGGG)4 was dot-blotted on the same membrane and visualized together with immunoprecipitated DNA. To examine the role of TRB1 in planta, we analysed T–DNA insertion line SALK_025147 (ecotype Col–0). Three parallel wild-type (wild-type) and homozygous trb1 (trb1−/−) lines (A, B and C) were derived from three independent heterozygous plants (see FigureCITATIONa). The homozygosity of each parallel wild-type and trb1 mutant plant line was determined by PCR (FigureCITATIONb). The T–DNA insertion is located in the second intron (FigureCITATIONa), and the absence of trb1 transcript was confirmed by RT–PCR (FigureCITATIONc). Expression analysis of TRB1 protein in mutant (trb1−/−), wild-type (Wt) and transformed TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP plants.(a) Schematic illustration of specific primers and T–DNA insertion location within the trb1 gene. The domain location and antibody recognition sites for two specific antibodies developed in our laboratory are shown below.(b) Three individual plant lines (A, B and C) were derived from heterozygous progenitors (as shown in FigureCITATIONa). Example of PCR analysis of genomic DNA isolated from Wt plants (primers P3 + P2) and mutant (trb1−/−) plants (primers P1 + P2) of line B.(c) RT–PCR of RNA isolated from Wt and mutant (trb1−/−) plants of line B using primers P4 + P5.(d) Immunodetection by Western blot analysis of TRB1 protein in Wt and mutant (trb1−/−) plants of line B and TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP plant nuclear extracts using specific antibody recognizing the Myb-like domain of TRB1 (anti-TRB1 1.2). The level of native TRB1 protein is lower compared to the TRB1–GFP fusion protein construct expressed under the control of the native promoter.(e) Immunolocalization of TRB1 protein using anti-GFP and anti-TRB1 antibody. The level of native TRB1 protein in the wild-type is very low. The selected plant line does not show GFP labelling in all cells, so some nuclei contain a wild-type level of TRB1 and others show higher expression due to TRB1–GFP. Thus the intensity of signal may be clearly measured as Wt and over-expressing nuclei are present together on one slide and may be clearly distinguished using specific anti-TRB1 protein antibody 1.2 and anti-GFP antibody. TRB proteins consist of three domains: Myb-like, histone-like and a coiled-coil domain (FigureCITATIONa). As no antibody recognizing either TRB proteins or the plant Myb domain of the telobox type is commercially available, we developed specific mouse monoclonal antibodies in our laboratory. Two of them were used in this study: 1.2 (specific to TRB1) and 5.2 (specific for the conservative part of the Myb domain; this also recognizes other TRB proteins). The location of antibody recognition sites within the structure of TRB1 as determined by ELISA (Figure S3) is shown in FigureCITATION(a). Although the conservative part of the telobox Myb domain is also present in Arabidopsis TRF-like family (TRFL) proteins (CITATIONet al., 2004), these proteins are not recognized by the 1.2 or 5.2 antibodies. The anti-TRB 1.2 or 5.2 antibodies were unable to detect in vitro expressed TRFL2 or 9 or TRP1 (telomeric repeat binding protein 1) from the TRFL family (Figure S4, constructs kindly provided by D.E. Shippen, Department of Biochemistry,Texas A&M University,TX, USA). Antibody 1.2 was used to detect native TRB1 protein in Arabidopsis plant protein extracts. The natural level of TRB1 protein was clearly observed on Western blots of wild-type plants (FigureCITATIONd), but no TRB1 protein was observed for extracts from trb1 mutant plants (FigureCITATIONd). In addition, plant lines stably transformed with TRB1–GFP construct under the control of native promoter showed a distinct abundance of TRB1–GFP protein compared to the native TRB1 protein. Various expression levels of native TRB1 protein and TRB1–GFP were also apparent after immunolocalization in vivo (FigureCITATIONe), in which TRB1 protein is visualized using either anti-TRB1 1.2 antibody or anti-GFP antibody. We tested both antibodies by indirect immunofluorescence on trb1 mutant and GFP–TRB1-expressing plants. These experiments showed evenly distributed nuclear and nucleolar signals for both 1.2 and 5.2 antibodies. Antibody 1.2 did not detect any signal in trb1−/− plants, but antibody 5.2 recognizes some epitopes in trb1−/− (Figure S5). However, the generated antibodies do not appear to be of sufficient quality for more demanding immunolocalization or ChIP experiments (as concluded from further testing). Derivation of independent wild-type and trb1−/− plant lines from three heterozygous progeny (FigureCITATIONa) provided reliable material for phenotypic studies of the trb1 null mutation effect. All six homozygous plant lines were propagated for five generations. The telomeres are shortened in all three individually derived trb1−/− mutant plant lines.(a) Derivation of three independent plant lines (A, B, C) that were propagated for five generations (G5).(b) Terminal restriction fragment analysis, showing telomere shortening in the trb1−/− mutant line compared with the wild-type control in the fifth generation.(c) Difference in mutant trb1−/− and wild-type telomere lengths in three independent plant lines. Error bars represent standard deviation. Obvious shortening of telomeres was observed by terminal restriction fragment (TRF) analysis in all three trb1 mutant lines analysed in the fifth generation compared to their segregated wild-type siblings. Hybridization with a radioactively labelled telomeric probe (FigureCITATIONb) revealed truncation of telomeric tracts in trb1 lines by approximately 10–20% (FigureCITATIONc). The graph represents evaluation in the three biological replicates. Observations in earlier generations of trb1 lines (Figure S6) show mild but progressive shortening that continues through the generations. Despite clear and reproducible telomere shortening in trb1, no significant morphological differences were observed in rosette diameter, leaf number, flowering and seed set when analysing soil-grown wild-type and trb1−/−plants. Our previous finding that TRB1 protein interacts with POT1b and evidence presented here showing that TRB1 co-localizes with telomeric repeats and is involved in regulation of telomere maintenance suggest its possible association with telomerase (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2008). We therefore tested the possibility of direct interaction between TRB1 and TERT, as well as the influence of TRB1 on telomerase activity in vitro. As TERT is a high-molecular-weight protein (approximately 130 kDa), we used TERT fragments containing N–terminal domains associated with distinct telomeric functions (CITATION) to detect a possible direct interaction between TERT and TRB proteins (FigureCITATIONa). We tested their ability to interact using a GAL4 based yeast two-hybrid system, in which interactions take place inside the nucleus. As shown in FigureCITATION(b), strong interaction between TRB1 and the TERT 1-271 fragment was observed on histidine-deficient plates. This interaction was confirmed under stringent adenine selection. Clear interactions between TRB3 and TERT 1-271 and a weak interaction between TRB2 and TERT 1-271 were also observed under histidine selection. Further testing TRB1 and TRB2 with a longer fragment of TERT (amino acids 1-582) confirmed these interactions. TRB proteins interact with plant telomerase (TERT).(a) Schematic depiction of the catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) showing evolutionarily conserved motifs. N-terminal fragments containing the telomerase-specific motifs TEN (telomerase essential N–terminal domain) and TRBD (N–terminal RNA-binding domain) were used in protein–protein interaction analysis (amino acid numbering is shown).(b) Yeast two-hybrid system was used to assess interaction of TRB proteins with N–terminal TERT fragments. Two sets of plasmids carrying the indicated segments of TERT fused to either the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD) or the GAL4 activation domain (AD) were constructed and introduced into yeast strain PJ69–4a carrying reporter genes His3 and Ade2. Although weak interactions often fail to rescue growth under stringent adenine selection, plausible TRB–TERT interactions were observed on histidine-deficient plates. Co-transformation with an empty vector (AD/BD/vector) served as a negative control.(c) Bimolecular fluorescence complementation confirmed the interaction of TRB proteins with TERT fragments. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were co-transfected with 10 μg each of plasmids encoding nEYFP-tagged TRB clones, cEYFP-tagged TERT fragments or Gaut10 (as negative control) and mRFP-VirD2NLS (to label cell nuclei and to determine transfection efficiency). The cells were imaged by epifluorescence microscopy after overnight incubation. Clear nuclear interactions of TRB proteins with TERT fragments are observed on the protoplast images: YFP fluorescence (yellow), mRFP fluorescence (red), chloroplast autofluorescence (green pseudocolor); chloroplast autofluorescence is also visible in the YFP channel (indicated by arrows). Scale bars = 7 μm. To test whether the interactions observed in a yeast-two hybrid system are reproducible in the plant cell, we used a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay (BiFC). Arabidopsis protoplasts were transfected with plasmids encoding nYFP-tagged TRB constructs and cYFP-tagged TERT fragments, and a clear intra-nuclear interaction was observed (FigureCITATIONc and Figure S7). The TERT fragments used in BiFC (TERT 1-271 and TERT 229-582) overlap with the fragments tested in the yeast two-hybrid system. The interaction was further verified by co-immunoprecipitation experiments in which proteins were expressed in rabbit reticulocyte lysate from the same vectors used in yeast two-hybrid system. As shown in Figure S8, clear interactions between TRB1 and all three TERT fragments (1-271, 229-582 and 1-582) were observed. Obvious interactions were also detected between TRB3 and TERT 1-271 or TERT 229-582, but only weak interactions were observed between TRB2 and TERT fragments. The generally weaker interactions of TRB2 or TRB3 proteins with TERT fragments in comparison to the corresponding interactions of TRB1 were due to lower expression of TRB2 and TRB3 proteins in rabbit reticulocyte lysate. To determine whether interaction between TRB proteins and TERT directly influences telomerase activity, we used a telomere repeat amplification protocol (TRAP). In extracts from trb1−/− plants, no changes in telomerase activity or processivity were observed. Correspondingly, no variations in telomerase activity were detected in transformed plants (TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP) expressing higher levels of protein (Figure S9). This observation is in agreement with our previous experiments in which Escherichia coli-expressed and purified TRB2 and TRB3 proteins were added to the TRAP assay (CITATIONet al., 2004).
!~MM~! The sequences of all primers and probes used in this study are provided in Table S2. The 35Spro:GFP-TRB1 plants and construct have been described previously (CITATIONet al., 2010). The TRBpro:TRB1-GFP construct was prepared as follows: genomic DNA from A. thaliana Col–0 was isolated using a DNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/), and used as a template for PCR to amplify the TRB1 genomic sequence including the 5′ UTR. The 3′ UTR was amplified from BAC clone FJ10.16 (Arabidopsis Information Resource, http://www.arabidopsis.org/). We used 0.25 units of Hot Start Phusion polymerase (Finnzymes, http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/finnzymes/) with 0.2 mm dNTPs, 1× HF reaction buffer (Phusion Hot Start II high fidelity DNA polymerase; http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/), 3% dimethylsulfoxide and 0.5 μm of each primer (5′ UTRFw + TRB1 Rev or 3′ UTR Fw + 3′ UTR Rev). The conditions used were in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions (Finnzymes). PCR products were precipitated using poly(ethylene glycol), and cloned into a Gateway multi-site system (Invitrogen, http://www.lifetechnologies.com), together with the GFP tag (GFP in pDONR221, provided by Keke Yi, College of life Sciences, Zhejiang University, China). pKm43GW (CITATIONet al., 2005) was used as the destination vector. A. thaliana Col–0 was subsequently transformed by floral dipping (CITATION), and transformants selected on MS medium containing 30 μg/ml kanamycin were scored for GFP expression. T–DNA insertion mutant plants of trb1 (SALK_025147) in the Col–0 background were used. To distinguish between wild-type plants and those that were heterozygous or homozygous for the T–DNA insertion in the trb1 gene, we isolated genomic DNA from leaves using NucleoSpin Plant II (Machery Nagel, http://www.mn-net.com/). The genomic DNA was used for PCR analysis with MyTaq DNA polymerase (Bioline, http://www.bioline.com). The conditions used were in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The primers used were specific for T–DNA (P3 + P2 primers) or the TRB1 gene (P1 + P2 primers). Cycling conditions were 98°C for 1 min (initial denaturation), followed by 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 sec, 58°C for 45 sec and 72°C for 2 min, with a final extension at 72°C for 10 min. Total RNA was extracted from approximately 50 mg of frozen plant tissue using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen), and RNA samples were treated with TURBO DNA-free (Applied Biosystems/Ambion, http://www.lifetechnologies.com TURBO DNA-free). The quality and quantity of RNA were determined by electrophoresis on 1% w/v agarose gels and by measurement of absorbance using an Implen nanophotometer (http://www.implen.de/). Reverse transcription was performed using random hexamers (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) with 1 μg RNA and Mu-MLV reverse transcriptase (New England Biolabs, https://www.neb.com/). The cDNA obtained was screened by PCR analysis for the presence of trb1 transcripts using MyTaq DNA polymerase (Bioline) with primers P4 and P5. Thermal conditions were 95°C for 1 min (initial denaturation), followed by 30 cycles of 94°C for 45 sec, 55°C for 45 sec and 72°C for 2 min, with a final extension at 72°C for 10 min. Leaves of 5-week-old N. benthamiana plants were infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing 35Spro:GFP-TRB1 (vector pGWB6, strain LBA4404) (CITATIONet al., 2010), and 35Spro:p19 (CITATIONet al., 2002) as described by CITATIONet al. (2003). The infiltration medium contained 10 mm MES (pH approximately 5.7) and 10 mm MgCl2. After 3–4 days, leaf discs were checked under a fluorescence microscope, and protoplasts were prepared as described by CITATIONet al. (2007b); the digestion medium contained also 0.25% Pectolyase Y23 (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa-biochemie.nl/) in addition to celullase and macerozyme and a 119 μm filter was used for filtration. Protoplasts in W5 buffer were collected by centrifugation at 50 g, and resuspended in NIB (Nuclei Isolation Buffer; 10 mm MES, 0.2M Sucrose, 2.5 mm EDTA,10 mm NaCl, 10 mm KCl 2.5 mm DTT, 0.1 mm Spermine, 0.5 mm Spermidine) to extract nuclei as described by CITATIONet al. (2008). Isolated nuclei were then fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 15 min, resuspended in wash buffer (50 mm Tris/Cl, pH 8.5, 5 mm MgCl2, 20% glycerol), 4°C, spun down at 300g and stored in storage buffer (50 mm Tris/Cl, pH 8.5, 5 mm MgCl2, 50% glycerol) at -20°C until use. Then 20 μl of nuclei were spun on the Superfrost plus microscopic slide (http://www.menzel.de/) at 56 g, and re-fixed in 4% p-formaldehyde in 1× PBS/0.05% Triton X-100 for 15 min. Slides were then treated with RNase (100 μg/ml) for 1 h at 37°C, and hybridized with telomeric Cy3-labelled peptide nucleic acid probe in 65% formamide/20% dextran sulfate/2× SSC at 37°C overnight. Post-hybridization washes were performed at 37°C using 2× SSC. Slides were counter-stained using 4,6–diamidino-2–phenylindole (1 μg/ml), and observed on a Zeiss (http://www.zeiss.cz/) Axioimager Z1 using an AHF filter set. Arabidopsis seeds expressing TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP under the control of the native promoter and trb1 seeds were bleach-sterilized for 10 min, washed in water and sown onto half-strength MS medium/1% agar plates. Seedlings grown under the constant light, at 22°C for 2 weeks, then chopped into small pieces. Protoplasts were prepared as described by CITATIONet al. (2007b), and the nuclei and immunolocalization protocols were adapted from those described by CITATIONet al. (2008). Slides were first blocked in a mixture of 2× block solution (Roche, http://www.roche.cz)/1× PBS/5% goat serum at room temperature for 30 min, then incubated with primary antibodies [mouse anti-TRB 1.2 or 5.2 or, anti-GFP (Abcam ab290, http://www.abcam.com/), all diluted 1:300] for 2 h at 37°C, and visualized using secondary antibodies A11001 and A21207 (Invitrogen) at 1:500 dilution. To determine the level of TRB1 protein in plants, we isolated nuclei as described by CITATIONet al. (2004). The nuclei were lysed using SDS loading buffer (250 mm Tris/Cl, pH 6.8, 4% w/v SDS, 0.2% w/v bromophenol blue, 20% v/v glycerol, 200 mm β–mercaptoethanol), heated at 80°C for 10 min, and protein extracts were analysed by SDS–PAGE. Proteins were electrophoretically transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane at 360 mA for 1 hour in 192 mm glycine, 25 mm Tris, 0.5% SDS and 10% (v/v) methanol in a Bio-Rad Mini Trans-Blot cell. Ponceau S staining was performed to check the quality of the extracts and to ensure equal gel loading for immunodetection. Membranes were blocked with 5% non-fat dry milk in Tris-buffered saline/Tween, and probed using the monoclonal anti-TRB1 1.2 antibody and the secondary polyclonal horseradish peroxidase-conjugated rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulins (DAKO, http://www.dako.com), both diluted 1:5000. Immunoreactive bands were visualized using LumiGLO reagent and peroxide (Cell Signaling Technology, http://www.cellsignal.com) on a Fujifilm LAS-3000 CCD system (http://www.fujifilm.com/). The ChIP assay was performed as described by CITATIONet al. (2004) with modifications. Chromatin extracts were prepared from seedlings treated with 1% formaldehyde. The chromatin from isolated nuclei was sheared to a mean length of 250–500 bp by sonication using a Bioruptor (Diagenode, http://www.diagenode.com) and centrifuged (16 000 g/5 min/4°C). The matrix GFP-Trap A (Chromtec, http://www.chromotek.com) was blocked against non-specific interaction using 200 mm ethanolamine, 1% BSA and the DNA sequences TR10–24–G and TR10–24–C (Table S2), which are not recognized by TRB proteins (CITATIONet al., 2004). The pre-treated matrix was incubated with chromatin diluted with ChIP dilution buffer (16.7 mm Tris/Cl, pH 8,0, 1.2 mm EDTA, 167 mm NaCl, 0.1% Triton X–100, phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride and protease inhibitors) at 4°C for 4 h, and subsequently washed with low-salt, high-salt, LiCl and 10 mm Tris (pH = 8,0), 1 mm EDTA (TE) buffers. In contrast to CITATIONet al. (2004), the levels of detergents (Triton X–100, Nonidet P-40 and sodium deoxycholate) were reduced to 0.1%. The cross-linking was reversed using 0.2 m NaCl overnight, and was followed by treatment with proteinase K (Serva, http://www.serva.de) treatment, phenol/chlorophorm extraction and treatment with RNase A (Serva) as described by CITATIONet al. (2004). ChIP assays were repeated using three biological replicates (plants grown at different times). DNA isolated using ChIP was diluted into 200 μl of 400 mm NaOH and 10 mm EDTA, and samples were denatured at 95°C for 10 min and cooled on ice. They were then spotted onto Hybond XL membrane (GE Healthcare, http://www3.gehealthcare.com) and subjected to hybridization with sequence-specific probe TR–4C (Table S2). The probe was hybridized in 250 m sodium phosphate, pH 7.5, 7% SDS and 16 mm EDTA overnight at 55°C, and washed with 0.2× SSC + 0.1% SDS. The signal was evaluated using MultiGauge software (Fujifilm). All experiments were performed using three independent biological replicates. Re-hybridization with centromeric and 18S rDNA probes was performed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2010). Protein extracts from 2-week-old seedlings were prepared as described by CITATIONet al. (1996). These extracts were subjected to the TRAP assay as described by CITATIONet al. (1998). TS21 was used as the substrate primer for extension by telomerase, and TEL-PR was used as the reverse primer in the subsequent PCR. TRF analysis was performed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2008) using 500 ng genomic DNA isolated from 5–7-week-old rosette leaves using NucleoSpin Plant II (Machery Nagel). Southern hybridization was performed using the end-labelled telomere-specific probe TR–4C (Table S2). Telomeric signals were visualized using an FLA7000 imager (Fujifilm), and a grey-scale intensity profile was generated using MultiGauge software (Fujifilm). Evaluation of fragment lengths was performed using a Gene Ruler 1 kb DNA ladder (Fermentas, http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/fermentas/) as the standard. Mean telomere lengths were calculated as described by CITATIONet al. (2001). Yeast two-hybrid experiments were performed using the Matchmaker™ GAL4-based two-hybrid system (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com/). cDNA sequences encoding TERT N - terminal fragments comprising amino acids 1-271 and 1-582 were sub-cloned from pDONR/Zeo entry clones (CITATIONet al., 2013) into the Gateway-compatible destination vector pGBKT7-DEST (bait vector). The pGBKT7-DEST destination vector that was used in this study was created by CITATIONet al. (2008) who introduced the Gateway conversion cassette into the original Matchmaker system vector pGBKT7 (Clontech). The pGADT7 prey vectors (Clontech) carrying TRB1, TRB2 and TRB3 have been described previously (CITATIONet al., 2008). Each bait/prey combination was co-transformed into Saccharomyces cerevisiae PJ69–4a, and colonies were inoculated into YPD medium and cultivated overnight. Successful co-transformation was confirmed on SD medium lacking Leu and Trp, and positive interactions were selected on SD medium lacking Leu, Trp and His or SD medium lacking Leu, Trp and Ade. Co-transformation with an empty vector served as a negative control for auto-activation. Each test was performed three times using two replicates at a time. In addition, the protein expression levels were verified by immunoblotting. For PCR amplification of sequences encoding the tested proteins, and to generate restriction site overhangs, Phusion HF DNA polymerase (Finnzymes) was used. The conditions used were in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The primers used were F–TRB1/2/3_BstBI, R–TRB1/2/3_SmaI, F–TERT_KpnI, R–RID1+BamHI, F–F2N_KpnI and R–F2N+BamHI, and plasmids encoding the tested proteins were used as templates. The amplified DNA fragments were gel-purified, digested with BstBI/SmaI or KpnI/BamHI (New England Biolabs), and ligated into vectors pSAT1-nEYFP and pSAT1-cEYFP. As a negative control, we used an AtGaut10-cEYFP construct. To quantify transformation efficiency and to label cell nuclei, we co-transfected a plasmid expressing mRFP fused to the nuclear localization signal of the VirD2 protein of A. tumefaciens (mRFP-VirD2NLS; CITATIONet al., 2006). The vectors and the mRFP-VirD2NLS and AtGaut10-cEYFP constructs were kindly provided by Stanton Gelvin (Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, IN, USA). Arabidopsis thaliana leaf protoplasts were prepared and transfected as described by CITATIONet al. (2009). DNA (10 μg of each construct) was introduced into 1 × 105 protoplasts. Transfected protoplasts were incubated in the light at room temperature overnight, and then observed for fluorescence using a Zeiss AxioImager Z1 epifluorescence microscope equipped with filters for YFP (Alexa Fluor 488), RFP (Texas Red) and CY5 (chloroplast autofluorescence). Proteins were expressed from the same constructs as used in the yeast two-hybrid system with a haemagglutinin tag (pGADT7; TRB1, 2 and 3 proteins) or a Myc tag (pGBKT7; TERT fragments) using a TNT quick coupled transcription/translation system (Promega, https://www.promega.com) in 50 μl reaction volumes according to the manufacturer's instructions. The TRB proteins were radioactively labelled using 35S-Met. The co-immunoprecipitation procedure was performed as described by CITATIONet al. (2011). Input, unbound and bound fractions were separated by 12% SDS–PAGE, and analysed using an FLA7000 imager (Fujifilm). Sequence data have been deposited in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At1g49950 (TRB1), At5g67580 (TRB2, formerly TBP3), At3g49850 (TRB3, formerly TBP2,), At5g16850.1 (TERT), At2g20810 (Gaut10) and At5g59430 (TRP1).
