!~ABS~!  The Arabidopsis thaliana plasma membrane proton ATPase genes, AHA1 and AHA2, are the two most highly expressed isoforms of an 11 gene family and are collectively essential for embryo development. We report the translational fusion of a tandem affinity-purification tag to the 5′ end of the AHA1 open reading frame in a genomic clone. Stable expression of TAP-tagged AHA1 in Arabidopsis rescues the embryonic lethal phenotype of endogenous double aha1/aha2 knockdowns. Western blots of SDS-PAGE and Blue Native gels show enrichment of AHA1 in plasma membrane fractions and indicate a hexameric quaternary structure. TAP-tagged AHA1 rescue lines exhibited reduced vertical root growth. Analysis of the plasma membrane and soluble proteomes identified several plasma membrane-localized proteins with alterred abundance in TAP-tagged AHA1 rescue lines compared to wild type. Using affinity-purification mass spectrometry, we uniquely identified two additional AHA isoforms, AHA9 and AHA11, which copurified with TAP-tagged AHA1. In conclusion, we have generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines in which a TAP-tagged AHA1 transgene has complemented all essential endogenous AHA1 and AHA2 functions and have shown that these plants can be used to purify AHA1 protein and to identify in planta interacting proteins by mass spectrometry.
!~RES~! Our lab has previously shown that wild-type AHA1 or AHA2 transgenes successfully rescue aha1/aha1;aha2/aha2 double-knockdown embryo lethality.CITATION We therefore wished to test whether an AHA1 transgene fused to a tandem affinity-purification (TAP) tag could also rescue embryonic lethality. A TAP-tag construct optimized for use in plants containing two tandem protein A domains separated from a calmodulin-binding protein domain (CBP) by a TEV protease site was ligated to the 5′ end of a genomic AHA1 open reading frameCITATION (CITATION). Arabidopsis (Col-0, aha1/aha1;AHA2/aha2) were transformed with the Ntapi:gAHA1 clone via Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip, and successful transformation events were selected on hygromycin media.CITATION,CITATION Plants were allowed to self, and PCR genotyping of the T2 population identified aha1/aha1;aha2/aha2 double-knockdown plants carrying the Ntapi:gAHA1 transgene. We recovered two independent rescue lines expressing Ntapi:gAHA1 (Ntapi:gAHA1a and Ntapi:gAHA1b; TAPa and TAPb). A band of approximately 125 kDa was detected in western blots from denaturing SDS protein gels of Ntapi:gAHA1 microsomal fractions probed for protein A. Following two-phase partitioning, the majority of protein A staining enriches in the plasma membrane phase (Figure CITATION). In addition to the major band between the 110 and 130 kDa markers, we commonly observe the slightly higher and smaller ∼70–80 kDa bands on western blots. Smaller bands may be due to partial proteolysis of the C-terminal regulatory domain, whereas larger bands may be due to alterred migration resulting from bound lipid or detergent molecules. Previous studies of the Nicotiana plumbaginifolia plasma membrane proton pump, PMA2, indicate that the protein is present in the membrane as hexameric complexes, especially after activation by fusicoccin and subsequent 14-3-3 protein binding.CITATION,CITATION To determine the molecular weight of nondenatured Ntapi:AHA1, purified plasma membranes were run on blue native gels and probed with rabbit anti-CBP antibody. We observed two bands migrating close to the 242 and 720 kDa markers. Proteins may migrate higher than expected in blue native gels based on detergents and dyes used or bound lipids; thus, these bands likely correspond to dimeric and hexameric complexes observed previously (Figure CITATION).CITATION Detection of Ntapi:AHA1 in total microsomes (Mic), plasma membrane (PM), and intracellular membranes (non-PM). Size markers are in kDa. Upper panel is coomassie stained, and lower panel is a western blot probed with HRP-conjugated rabbit anti-goat IgG. Three micrograms of Ntapi:gAHA1 or wild-type plasma membrane protein was run on blue native gels. Proteins were transferred to membranes and probed with rabbit anti-CBP antibodies. The efficiency of aha1/aha2 double-knockdown rescue by Ntapi:gAHA1 was assessed by comparing the genotypes of aha1–6/aha1–6;AHA2/aha2–4;Ntapi:gAHA1a progeny to the ratios expected on the basis of Mendelian segregation for either a single or two unlinked insertional events (Table CITATION). The presence of multiple insertions and complex transgenic loci following Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is common.CITATION,CITATION Progeny ratios differed significantly from both expected scenarios based on chi-squared analysis but more closely resembled a scenario involving two unlinked transgene insertional events. A reduction in the number of rescued progeny from the expected number was observed and could be due to altered expression, translation, trafficking, or biochemical activity of the fusion protein. A similar segregation analysis of Ntapi:gAHA1b progeny was not performed because the genotype of the transformed seedling was aha1–6;aha1–6/aha2–4;aha2–4. Number of plants observed by PCR genotyping. Number of plants expected by Mendelian segregation with a single transgene insertion. Number of plants expected by Mendelian segregation of two unliked transgene insertional events. Result of chi-squared goodness of fit tests between observed and expected genotypes using 4 degrees of freedom. When grown vertically on standard half-strength M&S with 1% (w/v) sucrose nutrient media, we observed approximately 20% reduced root length in Ntapi:gAHA1 plants compared to wild-type or aha1/aha2 double knockdown mutants rescued with a wild-type AHA1 transgene (gAHA1) (Figure CITATIONA). We looked for additional growth changes such as the time to first bolting (Figure CITATIONB) and plant growth in soil (Figure CITATIONC), but we did not observe readily apparent differences. Work in our lab has previously shown that aha2 single-knockdown mutants exhibit root-growth phenotypes when seedlings are grown under stress conditions (high external pH, high external potassium, and toxic cations) that alter or rely on the proton motive force.CITATION,CITATION To determine effects of the TAP-tagged AHA1 protein on the proton motive force, we grew Ntapi:gAHA1 plants in the presence of gentamicin and lithium chloride. Under these conditions, aha2 knockdowns show enhanced root growth compared to wild-type plants because of the reduced proton motive force that energizes the reduced uptake of these toxic compounds. Ntapi:gAHA1 lines show similar root-growth phenotypes to aha2 single knockdowns rescued with a gAHA1 transgene (Figure CITATIOND). Growth of Ntapi:gAHA1 plants. (A) Vertical root growth (mm) of plants on half-strength M&S with 1% (w/v) sucrose media was measured at 7 and 10 days. Bars indicate standard error, and two-tailed, two-sample Student t tests were used to determine statistical difference (p < 0.005, n ≥ 12). (B) Sixteen seedling of each genotype were transferred to soil and monitored visually for bloting. (C) Representative experiment shown. Vegetative growth of three representative plants for each genotype at 32 days. (D) Vertical root growth (mm) of 4 day old wild-type, Ntapi:gAHA1a, and Ntapi:gAHA1b seedlings transferred to stress media for 5 days. Bars indicate standard error, and Student t tests were performed as above (p < 0.05, n = 7). (E) Vertical root growth (mm) of 4 day old wild-type, Ntapi:gAHA1a, and gAHA1 seedlings transferred to stress media for 5 days. With the ultimate goal of using Ntapi:gAHA1 plants for the in planta physiological investigation of AHA1, we wished to establish how closely transgenic lines resembled wild-type plants beyond merely visible phenotypes. To this end, we compared the plasma membrane and soluble proteomes of Ntapi:gAHA1 plants to wild-type and gAHA1 rescue lines using a metabolically labeled mass spectrometry approach to determine whether expressing Ntapi:AHA1 had proteomic consequences. Equal wet weights of seedlings grown in natural-abundance (14N) and isotopically heavy nitrogen (15N) liquid media were mixed prior to protein extraction. Subsequent downstream sample processing and mass spectrometry analysis was identical for paired tissues, and the relative abundance of a peptide from the original tissue can be determined by calculating the ratio of 14N/15N peptide intensity.CITATION A ratio of 1.0 indicates no difference in peptide abundance between metabolically labeled tissue pairs; a ratio greater than 1.0 indicates increased peptide abundance from 14N-grown tissue compared to 15N-grown tissue; and a ratio less than 1.0 indicates decreased peptide abundance in 14N-grown tissue We generated 14N/15N and reciprocal 15N/14N tissue pairs of liquid-grown, 9 day old wild-type/wild-type, wild-type/gAHA1, and wild-type/Ntapi:gAHA1a plants and performed biological duplicates for each experimental pair. Proteomic analysis of both soluble and plasma membrane proteomes was performed. The number of unique peptides and proteins identified by tandem mass spectrometry from each metabolically labeled tissue pair is summarized in CITATION. Approximately half of the protein identifications in all samples were based on a single peptide and were discarded from further analysis (CITATION). For proteins identified by more than one peptide, peptide ratios were averaged to achieve a single 14N/15N protein ratio. Protein ratios for plasma membrane (Figure CITATION) and soluble (Figure CITATION) fractions were plotted as the ratios from 14N/15N to reciprocal 15N/14N genotype pairs. Reciprocal plasma membrane protein ratios in metabolically labeled tissue pairs. Wild-type (WT), wild-type AHA1-rescued (gAHA1), and Ntapi:gAHA1-rescued plants were grown in natural-abudance (14N) and heavy isotope (15N) nitrogen media. Equal fresh weights of (A) wild-type/wild-type, (B) wild-type/gAHA1, and (C) wild-type/Ntapi:gAHA1 genotype pairs from two biologically replicated experiments (upper and lower plots) were mixed prior to homogenization, sample processing, and MS analysis. Protein ratios (14N/15N) were calculated by averaging median-normalized peptide ratios determined by Census, with a minimum MASCOT score of 30. Calculated protein ratios for reciprocally labeled tissue pairs were plotted for proteins identified by two or more peptides in both samples. The number of proteins showing reciprocal ratios of ≥1.2 and ≤0.8 in each sample are indicated. Reciprocal soluble protein ratios in metabolically labeled tissue pairs. Wild-type (WT), wild-type AHA1-rescued (gAHA1), and Ntapi:gAHA1-rescued plants were grown in natural-abudance (14N) and heavy isotope (15N) nitrogen media. Equal fresh weights of (A) wild-type/wild-type, (B) wild-type/gAHA1, and (C) wild-type/Ntapi:gAHA1 genotype pairs from two biologically replicated experiments (upper and lower plots) were mixed prior to homogenization, sample processing, and MS analysis. Protein ratios (14N/15N) were calculated by averaging median-normalized peptide ratios determined by Census, with a minimum MASCOT score of 30. Protein ratios for reciprocally labeled tissue pairs were plotted for proteins identified by two or more peptides in both samples. The number of proteins showing reciprcal ratios of ≥1.2 and ≤0.8 in each sample are indicated. Following manual verification of proteins showing 14N/15N and reciprocal ratios of ≥1.2 or ≤0.8, no proteins met all of the required criteria (see CITATION) in 14Nwild-type/15Nwild-type and reciprocal plasma membrane or soluble protein fractions. In wild-type/gAHA1 tissue pairs, only AHA1 itself showed statistically significant and reciprocal abundance changes in both biological replicates (Table CITATION). Despite the reduced levels of AHA1 protein at the membrane, gAHA1-rescue lines show no observable phenotypes under standard laboratory growth conditions. In wild-type/Ntapi:gAHA1 tissue pairs, we identified nine plasma membrane proteins that were differentially abundant in all three reciprocal experiments with at least a 20% abundance change in one experiment (Table CITATION). The majority of proteins identified show decreased abundance in Ntapi:gAHA1 seedlings compared to wild-type, but two, the phosphate transporter ATPT2 and AHA1 itself, show increased abundance. The known cellular roles of identified proteins include membrane transport (ATPT2), cell wall structure (SVL2), vesicle trafficking (PATL1), and microtubule structure and organization (DREPP).CITATION−CITATION The number of unique peptides whose ratios were averaged to calculate the total protein ratio are indicated in parentheses. Two sample, two-tailed Student t tests were used to determine statistical significance of reciprocal protein ratios if three or more unique peptides were detected in each sample. The number of unique peptides whose ratios were averaged to calculate the total protein ratio are indicated in parentheses. Two sample, two-tailed Student t tests were used to determine statistical significance of reciprocal protein ratios if three or more unique peptides were detected in each sample. A third experiment was performed comparing Ntapi:gAHA1b and wildtype plants to distinguish between effects specific to Ntapi:AHA1 expression versus transformation artifacts. With the goal of using Ntapi:gAHA1 plants to facilitate efficient isoform-specific purification of AHA1 from Arabidopsis tissue, we investigated the ability to specifically purify Ntapi:AHA1 with IgG purification resin. We developed a modified tandem affinity-purification protocol to purify Ntapi:AHA1 using only the first affinity-purification step to limit the possibility of losing protein interactors with increased sample handling.CITATION Purification of Ntapi:AHA1 from plasma membrane fractions by IgG resin is demonstrated by western blot in Figure CITATION. Including 0.1% SDS in the IgG resin washing buffer decreases nonspecifically bound proteins while retaining high Ntapi:AHA1 antibody reactivity in eluted fractions. Using normalized spectral counts as a relative quantification of the abundance of Ntapi:AHA1 in membrane and purified samples, the protein enrichment from upper-phase fractions by IgG resin is approximately 3.5-fold under mild washing conditions (Table CITATION). Addition of 150 mM NaCl further reduces MS identification of contaminating proteins but also results in loss of Ntapi:AHA1 staining in western blots of TEV-eluted fractions (CITATION). We therefore routinely use washing conditions containing 0.1% SDS with no additional salts for reducing background protein contamination while retaining specifically bound Ntapi:AHA1. Purification of Ntapi:AHA1 visulized by western blot. One-hundred micrograms of solubilized plasma membrane protein was incubated with IgG purification resin, washed three times with 0.1% SDS in resuspension buffer followed by three times with AcTEV, and eluted overnight with AcTEV protease. Eluted proteins were acetone-precipitated and resuspended directly in Laemmli sample buffer with reducing agent. One microgram of nonplasma membrane (non-PM) and plasma membrane (PM) wild-type or Ntapi:gAHA1 protein and half of TEV-eluted proteins were loaded on 4–12% NuPAGE gels. The left panel is silver stained for total protein, and the right panel is a western blot probed with rabbit anti-CBP followed by LI-COR IRDye goat anti-rabbit antibody. Size-marker values are in kDa. Spectral counts of a representative sample as determined by “number of assigned spectra” in Scaffold. Normalized spectral abundance factor calculated according to the method of Zhang et al.CITATION Enrichment of Ntapi:AHA1 from microsomal samples as determined by increasing NSAF values. Twice with 100× volume 1% NP40, once with 100× volume 1% NP40, 0.01% SDS. Three times with 100× volume 0.1% SDS, 150 mM NaCl. After establishing specific IgG purification of Ntapi:AHA1, we pursued the identification of Ntapi:AHA1-copurifying proteins using an affinity-purification mass spectrometry approach. Ntapi:gAHA1 and wild-type plants were grown in 14N and 15N liquid media and combined prior to homogenization as described previously. More than three technical purification replicates were performed on 14NNtapi:gAHA1/15Nwild-type and reciprocal 14Nwild-type/15NNtapi:gAHA1 tissue pairs. Eluted proteins were subjected to tandem mass spectrometry analysis, and proteins showing reciprocal 14N/15N ratios deviating from 1.0 between wild-type and Ntapi:gAHA1 seedlings were subjected to manual analysis. Four proteins showed increased purification from Ntapi:gAHA1 plants compared to wild-type including two additional AHA isoforms (Table CITATION). The enrichment of AHA9 and AHA11 from Ntapi:gAHA1 versus wild-type protein extracts was validated by searching the raw data for peaks corresponding to unique peptides from each isoform (Figure CITATION). Because of the high degree of sequence identity between isoforms, many other AHA peptides were discarded from our analysis; however, a list of all identified AHA peptides and their 14N/15N ratios are included in the CITATION (CITATION). Peptides unique to other AHA isoforms enrich with Ntapi:AHA1 after TAP-tag-mediated purification. Metabolically labeled 14NNtapi:gAHA1/15Nwild-type (red) and reciprocal 14Nwild-type/15NNtapi:gAHA1 (blue) plasma membrane pairs were incubated with IgG resin, washed, and eluted overnight with TEV protease. The raw data was inspected manually for peaks corresponding to the indicated unique peptides from AHA1, AHA9, and AHA11. Peptides were BLASTed agains the TAIR10 database to determine uniqueness. Peptide ratios for IgG-purified, TEV-eluted proteins from 14NNtapi:gAHA1/15NCol-0 WT metabolically labeled, liquid-grown tissue pairs. Peptide ratios for IgG-purified, TEV-eluted proteins from reciprocally labeled tissue pairs. Peptide intensity from 14N-grown tissue was too low for detection in raw data by Mascot set up in 14N search mode. Because of the autoinhibited state of AHA proteins,CITATION we wished to investigate whether treatment in vivo with compounds known or hypothesized to cause AHA activation would effect identification of NTapi:AHA1-copurifying proteins. The fungal phytotoxin fusicoccin (FC) binds to and stabilizes the AHA phosphorylated C-terminus and 14-3-3 protein complex, causing permanent activation of the pump.CITATION We hypothesized that treating liquid-grown seedlings with FC would increase mass spectrometry identification of 14-3-3 proteins in IgG-purified eluates, which we failed to identify in nonelicited copurification experiments (CITATION). Nine day old Ntapi:gAHA1 liquid-grown 14N + FC/15N – FC and reciprocally treated pairs were subjected to combined homogenization, purification, and MS analysis as previously described. Treatment of seedlings with 1 μM FC for 30 min increased purification of AHA11 and several 14-3-3 protein isoforms including GRF1, GRF2, and GRF3 (Table CITATION). Auxin also regulates plasma membrane proton pump activity by phosphorylation, although the protein kinases and/or phosphotases responsible have not been identified.CITATION Additionally, the inhibitory effect of auxin on root growth is well-established and likely involves regulation of proton pump activity.CITATION When seedlings were treated with 1 μM indole-3-acetic-acid for 15 min, we observed decreased copurification of the protein kinase PHOT1 (Table CITATION). Liquid-grown Ntapi:gAHA1 seedlings: 14N seedlings treated, 15N seedlings mock treated. Reciprocal experiment: 14N seedlings mock treated, 15N seedlings treated. Fusicoccin treatment: 1 μM for 30 min. Indole-3-acetic acid treatment: 1 μM for 15 min. Number of unique peptides included in protein ratio average are indicated in parentheses. Statistical significance is based on two-sample, two-tailed Student’s t test.
!~MM~! Mutants (ecotype Columbia) carrying homozygous T-DNA insertions in AHA1 (aha1–6, SALK016325) and heterozygous insertions in AHA2 (aha2–4, SALK082786) were created by crossing as described previously.CITATION Seeds were germinated on plates containing half-strength Murashige & Skoog (M&S) salts, 1% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.7% (w/v) agar. Seedlings were transferred to soil/perlite mixture and grown under constant light at 21 °C. Root growth asssays were conducted as described previously.CITATION,CITATION Plant genomic DNA was extracted using the method of Krysan et al. with the elimination of the phenol/chloroform step.CITATION The presence of aha1–6 and aha2–4 T-DNA insertion or wild-type alleles was determined by PCR using allele-specific primers spanning the T-DNA and AHA1 or AHA2 genomic junctions (T-DNA LB: TCAAACAGGATTTTCGCCTGCT; S016325 LP: CGTCTCAACAAAAGTCTCTTTCA; S016325 RP: CGAAAGATCAACCTCGTGAGT; S082786 LP: ATGTTCATTGCAAAGGTGGTG; and S082786 RP: CCCATTAGCTCGTGGTTATTG).CITATION Cloning of a 9.9 kb genomic region containing AHA1 with 3377 bp of upstream and 1100 bp of downstream DNA (gAHA1) was described previously.CITATION A unique SalI restriction-enzyme site was created at the 5′ end of the AHA1 open reading frame using the QuikChange II XL kit (Stratagene) and the following mutagenic primers: Forward: GATTTCTTCTGGGTGAAGATGTCGACTCTCGAAGATATCAAGAACGAGA Reverse: TCTCGTTCTTGATATCTTCGAGAGTCGACATCTTCACCCAGAAGAAATC The gAHA1 fragment was subcloned into the Agrobacterium transformation vector pGreenII0179 at the SacI and XhoI sites.CITATION The N-terminal TAPi tag was amplified with a high-fidelity polymerase from the gateway cloning vector ntapi.289.gwCITATION using the following primers designed to append SalI restriction overhangs: Forward: AAGTCGACCGTGGTGGACAACAAGTTCAA Reverse: TTGTCGACGAAGAAGATCCTCCTCCTCCCAGTGCGCCGCTG Adenosine overhangs were added with Taq polymerase, and the fragment was cloned into pCR2.1. Ntapi SalI restriction fragments were cloned into the unique AHA1 SalI site. Constructs were confirmed by sequencing and used to transform aha1–6/aha1–6;AHA2/aha2–4 plants via Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip, strain GV3101 carrying pSOUP.CITATION Transgenic seeds were selected on hygromycin media (half-strength M&S, 1% sucrose, 0.7% agar, and 25 μg/mL of hygromycin). Hygromycin-resistant (HygR) aha1/aha1;aha2/aha2 plants complemented by the presence of the N-terminal Ntapi:gAHA1 construct were isolated in the T2 population by PCR genotyping. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown for 9 days in half-strength M&S liquid media as described previously.CITATION Nine day old seedlings were extracted in 2× (v/w) homogenization buffer (230 mM sorbitol, 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM potassium metabisulfite, 1 mM PMSF, 10 mM sodium fluoride, 2 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 1 mM ammonium molybdate, and complete EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche)). Microsomes were collected as previously described.CITATION The microsomal pellet was resuspended in resuspension buffer (330 mM sorbitol, 5 mM KCl, and 5 mM K2HPO4, pH 7.8) and homogenized in a Teflon homogenizer, and plasma membranes were enriched by phase partition as described previously.CITATION Protein concentrations were determined with Bradford assays. Plasma membrane protein (100–500 μg) was solubilized with 10:1 (w/w) n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside in resuspension buffer for 1 h at 4 °C. Unsolubilized material was pelleted in a benchtop microcentrifuge at full speed for 30 min at 4 °C. Solubilized upper-phase protein (0.1 mg, 100–200 μL total volume) was incubated for 1 h at 4 °C with 15 μL of rabbit IgG agarose resin (Sigma, A9294) or 10 μL of IgG Sepharose 6 Fast Flow resin (GE Life Sciences, 17-0969-01) equilibrated in resuspension buffer with 0.1% (w/v) DDM. Resin was pelleted at 0.8 rcf for 1 min, and supernatant was discarded. Resin was washed two times at 4 °C for 10 min with a 100× volume of resuspension buffer containing 1% NP40 followed by a final wash in a 100× volume of resuspension buffer containing 1% NP40 and 0.01% SDS. Resin was pelleted for 1 min at 0.8 rcf between each wash, and supernatant was discarded. Protein was eluted overnight at 4 °C with 30 units AcTEV protease (Invitrogen). SDS-PAGE analysis was performed on Novex 10% Tris-glycine gels (Invitrogen) using 1× Novex Tris-Glycine SDS running buffer or on NuPAGE 4–12% Bis-Tris gels using 1× MOPS running buffer at 80 V for 3 to 4 h. Protein samples were diluted 1:1 in Laemmli sample buffer with 5% β-mercaptoethanol (BioRad). For western blot, gels were incubated at room temperature for 20 min in 100 mL of equilibration buffer (2× NuPAGE transfer buffer, 10% methanol, and 1:1000 NuPAGE antioxidant). Proteins were transferred to PVDF using the iBlot dry blotting system (Invitrogen) using program P3 for 12 min. Immunoblotting was performed according standard protocols using HRP-conjugated rabbit anti-goat IgG for colorometric visualization or rabbit anti-CBP (Calmodulin-binding protein, Genscript) followed by IRDye goat anti-rabbit (LI-COR) for membranes visualized with a LI-COR Odyssey infrared scanner. Three micrograms of plasma membrane protein was combined with 1% digitonin in membrane-solubilization buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, 150 mM NaCl, and 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5) as previously described.CITATION NativePAGE sample buffer (Invitrogen) was added to the supernatant to a final concentration of 1×, and NativePAGE 5% G-250 sample additive was added to a final concentration of 0.06%. Samples were run on NativePAGE Novex 3–12% Bis-Tris gels at 150 V for 20 min with dark blue cathode buffer followed by 45 min with light blue cathode buffer. Gels were washed for 20 min in equilibration buffer (80 mL of ddH20, 10 mL of 20× transfer buffer, 10 mL of methanol, and 100 μL of NuPage antioxidant), transferred to Immobilon-FL membranes (Millipore) using an iBlot dry blotting system (Invitrogen). Membrane was allowed to dry 30 min. Immunoblotting was performed according to a standard protocol using rabbit anti-CBP and IRDye goat anti-rabbit (LI-COR). Membranes were visualized with a LI-COR Odyssey infrared-imaging system. Seedlings for metabolically labeled mass spectrometry experiments were grown in 1× M&S micronutrient solution supplemented with 1.5 mM CaCl2, 0.75 mM MgSO4, 0.625 mM KH2PO4, 2.3 mM MES salts, and 29.2 mM sucrose. Natural abundance (14N) or heavy (15N) NH4NO3 ( 0.825 g) and 14N or 15N KNO3 (0.96 g) were added to 1 L of media, and the pH was adjusted to 5.7 with KOH. Fourteen milligrams of seeds was grown in 75 mL of sterile media supplemented with ampicillin. Seeds were stratified in the dark for 2 nights at 4 °C and then grown under constant light with gentle shaking for 9 days. Seedlings were spun-dry and weighed, and equal fresh weights of heavy and light seedlings were combined. Microsome and plasma membrane purification proceeded as above. Methanol/chloroform extraction was performed on plasma membrane and soluble fractions as previously described.CITATION Protein was suspended in 8 M urea/50 mM NH4HCO3 with gentle sonication and diluted to 1 M urea using 50 mM NH4HCO3. A BCA protein assay was performed to determine protein concentration. Aliquots of samples were reduced with 5 mM DTT at ∼50 °C for 45 min, alkylated with 15 mM iodoacetamide at room temperature for 45 min, and digested overnight at 37 °C with a 50:50 mixture of trypsin/lys-C (total protein/enzyme ratio 100:1). Samples were acidified with 0.3% TFA and desalted using Waters tC18 sep-pak columns according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After drying the samples, peptides were solubilized in LC–MS quality 0.1% formic acid. Approximately 5 μg of samples was loaded for analysis using an Agilent 1100 LC system inline with an LTQ Orbitrap XL. Peptides were separated over an in-house packed reversed-phase analytical column (Magic-C18, 200 Å, 3 μm, Michrom Bioresources, Inc.) with a postloading mobile phase elution gradient of 0–40% B over 3 h (A, 0.1% formic acid; B, 95% CH3CN and 0.1% formic acid) at 200 nL/min. Data-dependent analysis was performed in the LTQ Orbitrap XL using FTMS preview mode and full MSCITATION scan acquisition at 100 000 resolving power. The top five ions, excluding unassigned and +1 charge states, were repeatedly isolated with a 2.5 Da window for CID analysis in the linear ion trap using a normalized collision energy of 35.0 and activation Q and time of 0.25 and 30 ms, respectively. Dynamic exclusion was used for 40 s with a repeat count of 1 throughout the duration of analysis. The TAIR9 proteome database was searched using Mascot v2.2, allowing one missed tryptic cleavage, +2 and +3 charge states, a peptide tolerance of 20 ppm, and MS/MS ion tolerance of 0.6 Da. Carbamidomethylation was set as a fixed modification, and phosphorylated S/T/Y, deamidated N/Q, and oxidated M were set as variable modifications. A reverse database was appended and concurrently searched. Data was filtered to a 1% false discovery rate using in-house developed software (available at http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/sussmanlab/home), and ratio calculations were performed using Census.CITATION Every sample was manually median-normalized prior to analysis. Peptides with Mascot scores below 30 or peak correlations below 0.8 were discarded from analysis. Peptide ratios were averaged to achieve a single ratio for every protein identified. Proteins showing 14N/15N and reciprocal ratios of ≥1.2 or ≤0.8 identified in each experimental pair were subjected to manual verification. Peptides were blasted against the TAIR10 protein database (www.arabidopsis.org) to determine uniqueness, and nonunique peptides were discarded. Reciprocal protein ratios for proteins identified by three or more peptides in 14N/15N and 15N/14N tissue pairs were tested for statistical significance using a two-sample, two-tailed student’s t test with p ≤ 0.05. Protein-abundance changes were strengthened when the protein was identified in both biological replicates and the direction of change in both replicates agreed. Proteins showing opposite abundance changes in reciprocal pairs were discarded. IgG-purified, TEV-eluted protein samples were TCA/acetone-precipitated, and pellets were suspended in 7.4 μL of 8 M urea, 50 mM NH4HCO3 (pH 8.5), and 1 mM Tris-HCl for 5 min and subsequently diluted to 30 μL with 1.25 μL of 25 mM DTT, 2.5 μL MeOH, 18.75 μL of 25 mM NH4HCO3 (pH 8.5) for reduction and alkylation. Samples were incubated at 50 °C for 15 min and cooled on ice to room temperature. IAA (1.5 μL of 55 mM) was added, and samples were incubated at room temperature in the dark for 15 min. The reaction was quenched with 4 μL of 25 mM DTT. Eight microliters of trypsin (10 ng/μL Trypsin Gold, Promega Corp., in 25 mM NH4HCO3) and 6.5 μL of 25 mM NH4HCO3 (pH 8.5) was added to a final volume of 50 μL. Digestion proceeded for 2 h at 42 °C followed by an additional 5 μL of trypsin for a final enzyme/substrate ratio of 1:40. Digestion proceeded overnight at 37 °C. Digestions were quenched with 2.5% TFA to 0.3% final concentration, and 8 μL (∼700 ng) was loaded for nanoLC–MS/MS analysis. Microsomal and two-phase plasma membrane-enriched fractions were delipidated with methanol/chloroform separation prior to digestion. One-hundred micrograms of microsomal protein and 10 μg of plasma membrane-enriched fractions were precipitated in methanol/chloroform/water (4:1:1), and the protein pellet at the organic and aqueous interphase was washed in neat methanol. The protein was dried then digested as above in a 100 μL total volume with a 1:40 ratio of trypsin/substrate. Peptides were analyzed by nanoLC–MS/MS using the Agilent 1100 nanoflow system (Agilent Technologies) connected to a linear hybrid ion trap-orbitrap mass spectrometer (LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Thermo Fisher Scientific) equipped with a nanoelectrospray ion source. HPLC was performed on in in-house fabricated 15 cm C18 column packed with MAGIC C18AQ 3 μm particles (Michrom BioResources, Inc.) in a laser-pulled tip (P-2000, Sutter Instrument) using 360 μm × 75 μm fused silica tubing. Sample loading and desalting were done at 15 μL/min using a trapping column in line with the autosampler (Zorbax 300SB-C18, 5 μM, 5 × 0.3 mm, Agilent Technologies). Peptide elution solvent A was 0.1% formic acid in water and solvent B was 0.1% formic acid and 95% acetonitrile in water. The flow rate was 200 nL/min. The column was loaded, desalted, and equilibrated for 20 min in 1% solvent B followed by an increase to 40% solvent B over 195 min, ramped to 60% solvent B over 20 min, increased to 100% solvent B in 5 min, and held at 100% solvent B for an additional 3 min. The column was re-equilibrated to 1% B for 30 min. MS/MS data acquisition was gathered in a data-dependent mode as follows: MS survey scans from m/z 300 to 2000 were collected in centroid mode at a resolving power of 100 000. MS/MS spectra were collected on the five most abundant signals in each survey scan. Dynamic exclusion for 40 s of precursors up to 0.55 m/z below and 1.05 m/z above previously selected precursors was employed to increase the dynamic range and to maximize peptide identifications. Singly charged ions and ions for which the charge state could not be assigned were rejected from consideration for MS/MS. Label-free raw data files were converted to Mascot generic format (mgf) through initial open-source mzXML format conversion using the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline (TPP) software suite version 4.4. Mgf files were searched against the Arabidopsis thaliana TAIR9 database with decoy reverse entries and common contaminants were included for a total of 27 279 Arabidopsis protein-coding genes and 62 523 total entries using in-house Mascot search engine 2.2.07 (Matrix Science) with variable methionine oxidation and asparagine and glutamine deamidation. Peptide mass tolerance was set at 20 ppm with fragment mass at 0.8 Da. Protein annotations, identification significance, and spectral-based quantification were done using Scaffold software (version 3.6.3, Proteome Software Inc., Portland, OR.) Protein identifications were accepted if they were established with greater than 95% probability and contained at least two peptides using a 1% false discovery rate. Protein probabilities were assigned using Protein Prophet.CITATION Proteins containing nonunique peptides that could not be assigned on MS/MS analysis alone were grouped to satisfy the principles of parsimony. Metabolically labeled raw data was acquired, converted, and searched as above. Mascot search results were transformed to pepXML format using TPP software with an in-house-generated false-discovery-rate filter. FDR for peptide identification was set at 10% for for low-quality MS/MS spectra to be allowed and available for manual inspection if desired. Relative quantification of 14N/15N peptide ratios was performed using TPP tools and Census software (Scripps Research Institute).
