!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis A1-type cyclin, CYCA1;2, also named TARDY ASYNCHRONOUS MEIOSIS (TAM), is known for its positive role in meiotic cell cycle progression, but its function in other cells has not been characterized. This paper reports the role of CYCA1;2/TAM in differentiated cells in vegetative organs. The pattern of CYCA1;2/TAM expression was investigated by promoter and protein fusions using the β-glucuronidase and the green fluorescent protein, respectively. The relevance of the promoter region used in these gene fusion constructs was verified by the effective complementation of the phenotype of the diploid null allele, tam-2 2C by a genomic fragment containing the wild-type coding region of CYCA1;2/TAM and the promoter region. CYCA1;2/TAM expression was found primarily in non-proliferating cells such as guard cells, trichomes, and mesophyll cells, and in vascular tissue. In two types of overexpression lines, one containing the CYCA1;2/TAM transgene driven by the ARABIDOPSIS SKP1-LIKE1 (ASK1) promoter and the other CYCA1;2/TAM–GFP driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, the largest differences between the transgene transcript levels were approximately 72- and 45-folds, respectively, but the TAM–GFP signal levels in the mesophyll and stomata in the 35S:TAM–GFP lines only differ slightly. Furthermore, the GFP signals in the mesophyll and stomata in the TAM:TAM–GFP and 35S:TAM–GFP lines were all at similarly low levels. These results indicate that the CYCA1;2/TAM protein is likely maintained at low levels in these cells through post-transcriptional regulation. Loss of function in CYCA1;2/TAM resulted in increases in the nuclear size in both trichomes and guard cells. Surprisingly, overexpression of CYCA1;2/TAM led to similar increases. The large increases in trichome nuclear size likely reflected ploidy increases while the moderate increases in guard cell nuclear size did not justify for a ploidy increase. These nuclear size increases were not clearly correlated with trichome branch number increases and guard cell size increases, respectively. These results suggest that cellular homeostasis of the CYCA1;2/TAM protein is linked to the control of nuclear sizes in trichomes and guard cells.
!~RES~! It was previously reported that a 4,560-bp genomic fragment containing the 1,340-bp promoter region of CYCA1;2/TAM complemented the meiotic defect in the tam-1 allele, which contains a point mutation and retains a certain level of CYCA1;2/TAM function (Wang et al. CITATION). Because the same promoter region was used to create the GUS and GFP fusions and the tam-2 null allele (Wang et al. CITATION) was primarily used in phenotypic comparisons with other plants in this investigation, the same genomic fragment was tested for complementation of the defects in tam-2. Seeds from a plant heterozygous for tam-2 were first selected on the MS agar medium supplemented with kanamycin, which enabled the selection of both heterozygous and homozygous tam-2 plants. Transformation of these plants in four separate pots was then conducted with the TAM:TAM construct that contained the 4,560-bp genomic fragment. It was predicted that the tam-2 heterozygous plants would produce diploid tam-2 transformants and the tam-2 homozygous plants would produce triploid and tetraploid tam-2 transformants due to the meiotic defect in tam-2 (Wang et al. CITATION; d’Erfurth et al. CITATION). Indeed, among nine T1 plants identified as homozygous tam-2 by PCR (Fig. S1; data not shown), four were diploid, two were triploid, and three were tetraploid according to the guard cell nuclear sizes (see later results; data not shown). The four diploid T1s were from three independent transformation events (three planting pots), and the three tetraploid T1s from two independent transformation events. These diploid and tetraploid T1s were subject to further phenotypic characterization. Figure 1a, b show normal meiotic products and a dyad meiotic product from the wild type and diploid (2C) tam-2, respectively. All the identified T1 plants produced normal tetrads (Fig. 1c, d; data not shown). These results indicate that the transgene complemented the meiotic defect—the production of dyads—in tam-2 (Wang et al. CITATION). Therefore, the 1,340-bp promoter region of CYCA1;2/TAM likely enabled the expression of the transgene in a spatio-temporal pattern comparable to that of the endogenous CYCA1;2/TAM. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the expression of CYCA1;2/TAM in vegetative organs, we first studied the expression pattern of a TAM:GUS reporter gene in the wild-type seedlings (≥6 days old). Four such independent reporter lines showed similar GUS staining patterns although their expression levels seemed to vary. The strongest GUS signal was found in the vascular tissue of cotyledons, leaves, the hypocotyl, and roots but no signal was detected in leaf primordia, the shoot apical meristem, and the root apical meristem (Fig. 2a–e; Fig. S2). The GUS signal in the vascular tissue in the root followed a gradient of a strong signal at the hypocotyl-root junction to no signal near the root tip (Fig. 2d–f). The GUS signal appeared to be associated with the phloem or parenchyma in the vascular tissue in the root (Fig. 2d). In cotyledons and leaves, the GUS signal was present in the epidermis and the mesophyll, with some regions more intense than others and the region near the cotyledon and leaf margins often exhibiting overall weak staining (Fig. 2a–c, g–l). There are small patches of strong GUS staining in the cotyledons and leaves (Fig. 2b, c), which involved both the epidermis and the underneath mesophyll (Fig. 2g–l). These patches situated either away from a vascular bundle (Fig. 2b, g) or near a vascular bundle (Fig. 2b, k) and each consisted of a few cells surrounding a stoma (Fig. 2g, i, k, thin arrows). Stomata and pavement cells in other regions were either moderately (Fig. 2g, k, thick arrows) or weakly (Fig. 2i, thick arrow) GUS-stained. In addition, the GUS signal was observed in trichomes (Fig. 2c). These observations indicate that CYCA1;2/TAM is predominantly expressed in differentiated cells in the vascular tissue, the mesophyll, and the epidermis, and that the activation of the expression is coordinated between the epidermis and the underneath mesophyll. [[FIGURE]]  To further examine and confirm the expression pattern of CYCA1;2/TAM, we carried out detailed characterization of the GFP signals in the vegetative organs in three independent TAM:TAM–GFP transgenic lines that were previously described in the study of the meiotic function of CYCA1;2/TAM (Wang et al. CITATION). Consistent with the GUS staining results, the levels of the GFP signals in the mesophyll appeared to be higher in the three TAM:TAM–GFP lines than in the non-transgenic Col control (Fig. 3a–d). Similarly, the TAM:TAM–GFP lines also appeared to have higher levels of GFP in the guard cells than Col (Fig. 3e–l). To obtain an objective assessment of the GFP signal levels, the levels of the GFPs in the mesophyll and guard cells were quantified by average green intensity (average green pixel numbers per unit area) using the SigmaScan Pro software. In this quantification, the entire micrographs of the palisade mesophyll and guard cell areas that are devoid of chloroplasts and away from the cell wall region bordering the stomatal pore (both exhibiting high autofluorescence) were measured. These measurements indicate that the transgenic plants did have significantly higher levels of GFP than the negative control in the mesophyll and guard cells (Fig. 3s; t-test, all p values <0.01, except for the mesophyll comparison between Col and TAM:TAM–GFP1, whose p = 0.03). TAM–GFP also appeared to be in the root vascular tissue although it was difficult to quantify the GFP levels due to autofluorescence in the vascular tissue (Fig. 3m, n). It was also difficult to visualize and quantify the differences in the GFP signals in trichomes between the negative control and the TAM:TAM–GFP lines (Fig. 3o–r) due to the interference of variable autofluorescence levels from different areas of trichome cell walls. [[FIGURE]]  The above observations indicate that the GFP signal levels, although present at least in mesophyll and guard cells, were low or moderate. To determine if an artificial increase in its transcript level can increase its protein production and to investigate the effect of CYCA1;2/TAM overexpression in Arabidopsis, we generated two types of transgenic plants: the ASK1:TAM lines and the 35S:TAM–GFP lines. The ASK1 promoter has been described before (Wang and Yang CITATION) and is a strong promoter for ubiquitous transcription (search of microarray studies: http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/Search?action=new_search&type=expression; Figs. S3 and S4). The cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter is also expected to drive high levels of transcription in almost all cells. The transcript levels of each of the transgenes in three independent lines were first quantified using RNA samples from 2-week old seedlings and RT-qPCR. The levels of the CYCA1;2/TAM transcript in the three ASK1:TAM lines were ranged from 1.65- to 119-folds of that in the wild type control while it was 2.4- to 110-folds of the control level in the three 35S:TAM–GFP lines (Fig. 4). These results indicate that the ASK1 promoter and the 35S promoter had similar effects on the transcription of the transgenes, respectively. [[FIGURE]]  We next examined the GFP signals in the three 35S:TAM–GFP lines. The GFP signals appeared sporadically in the root apical meristem in 35S:TAM–GFP lines (Fig. 5c; data not shown) and such signals were not detected in the negative control (Fig. 5a) and the TAM–TAM–GFP lines (Fig. 5b; data not shown). These observations further indicate that CYCA1;2/TAM is not expressed at an appreciable level in the root apical meristem in the wild type. The spotty appearance of TAM–GFP in Fig. 5c indicates that the 35S promoter drove ectopic CYCA1;2/TAM expression in the root apical meristem. The spotty appearance of TAM–GFP also resembles the expression pattern of CYCB1;1 in the root apical meristem (Hauser and Bauer CITATION), suggesting that the dynamics of the ectopic TAM–GFP is similarly regulated as other mitotic cyclins in the root apical meristem. [[FIGURE]]  By the same method as described earlier, the GFP signals in the mesophyll and guard cells in the three 35S:TAM–GFP lines were quantified. Surprisingly, the GFP signals were also weak (Fig. 5d–l); only the GFP signal levels in the mesophylls of 35S:TAM–GFP2 and 3 and in the guard cells of 35S:TAM–GFP3 were statistically different from those of the negative control (t-test, p < 0.01; Fig. 5m). The ranking of the average green fluorescence intensities among the three lines in Fig. 5m corresponds to that of the transcriptional levels of CYCA1;2/TAM in Fig. 4, and the average green fluorescence intensities were similar to those in the TAM:TAM–GFP lines (Fig. 5m, and compare Fig. 5 with Fig. 3). Also striking is that the ratio of the mRNA transcript levels in the seedlings of the TAM:TAM–GFP lines is 1:2.5:45.8 (Fig. 4) whereas the ratios of the average green intensities in the mesophyll and guard cells in these lines are only 1:1.1:1.2 and 1:1.2:1.3, respectively. These results indicate that the 35S promoter did not lead to large increases in the levels of TAM–GFP in the mesophyll and guard cells, despite the large increases in the mRNA transcript in the seedlings of these lines. The average green intensity values, however, do reflect, in a small way, their transcript levels in the seedlings. Furthermore, the CYCA1;2/TAM promoter and the 35S promoter led to similar levels of TAM–GFP in the mesophyll and guard cells although the 35S promoter appeared somewhat weaker than the CYCA1;2/TAM promoter in the guard cells (Figs. 3s, 5m). Taken together, a post-transcriptional mechanism seems to exist to maintain low levels of the CYCA1;2/TAM protein in differentiated cells. To understand the function of CYCA1;2/TAM in vegetative organs, we first investigated by flow cytometric analysis the ploidy profiles of the first mature rosette leaves of tam-1, tam-2 8C (octaploid), and ASK1:TAM2 in comparison with that in Col 2C (diploid), tam-1 complement (Wang et al. CITATION), and Col 8C (Wang et al. CITATION). The proportions of nuclei at the ploidy levels ranging from 2C to 64C were not statistically different between Col 2C and tam-1 complement (Fig. 6a; t-test, p ≥ 0.05). Among the proportions of the six ploidy levels, only the proportion of 4C nuclei was statistically higher in tam-1 when it is compared with Col 2C (Fig. 6a; t-test, p = 0.002). ASK1:TAM2, on the other hand, had higher proportions of 2C (Fig. 6a; t-test, p = 5.7 × 10−5) and 4C (Fig. 6a; t-test, p = 0.006) nuclei but a lower proportion of 16C (Fig. 6a; t-test, p = 0.005) nuclei than Col 2C. When the same comparison was conducted between tam-2 8C and Col 8C, no statistical difference was detected between the two genotypes for nuclei with ploidy levels ranging from 8C to 128C (Fig. 6b; t-test, p ≥ 0.36). These results indicate that CYCA1;2/TAM is not required for endoreduplication in most, if not all, cells in the leaves, although when artificially upregulated it can reduce the proportion of high ploidy (16C) cells while increasing the proportion of low ploidy (2C and 4C) cells. [[FIGURE]]  Because some cells such as trichomes might not be adequately represented in the data in Fig. 6, we next examined individual trichomes on the adaxial side of the first and second rosette leaves in 2-week-old Col 2C, tam-1, tam-1 complement (tam-1 comp), tam-2 2C, T1 tam-2 2C complement lines 1–3 (tam-2 2C comp1-3), ASK1:TAM2-3, 35S:TAM1-2, Col 4C, tam-2 4C, T1 tam-2 4C complement lines 1–2 (tam-2 4C comp1-2), and ASK1:TAM1 (4C). 35S:TAM–GFP3 was not included in this and subsequent phenotypic studies because it was identified as an octaploid line according to the guard cell nuclear size; octaploid plants were found to have unstable genomes that may complicate phenotypic characterizations (Wang et al. CITATION). It is not surprising that 35S:TAM–GFP lines or ASK1:TAM lines can become polyploid since the transgenes can cause unreduced gametes even when they are hemizygous (detailed description of the meiotic effects of the transgenes will be reported in a separate paper). In fact, ASK1:TAM1 is a tetraploid line, which was included as an example of CYCA1;2/TAM overexpression for comparison with tam-2 4C. Both tam-1 and tam-2 exhibited, on average, larger trichome nuclei than the Col controls at both the diploid and tetraploid levels while trichome nuclei in the tam-2 complementation lines were either statistically the same as or even smaller than those of the Col controls (Fig. 7a; Fig. S5; Table S1). These results indicate that the loss of function of CYCA1;2/TAM resulted in increases in trichome nuclear size and the transgene complemented the trichome nuclear size defect in tam-2 in both the 2C and 4C backgrounds. However, the same transgene did not complement such a defect in tam-1. Surprisingly, all the ASK1:TAM and 35S:TAM–GFP lines, except ASK1:TAM2 whose average trichome nuclear size was not statistically different from that of Col 2C, also exhibited larger average trichome nuclear sizes than the Col controls (Fig. 7a; Fig. S5; Table S1). Despite the significant differences in nuclear size among these lines, the trichomes in these lines appeared to have comparable branch number distributions; only the average trichome branch number in tam-2 4C comp2 was slightly reduced in comparison with that in Col 4C (Fig. 7b; Table S1). Figure 7c–r shows representative trichome nuclei in the 16 lines studied. Taken together, both the loss of function and overexpression of CYCA1;2/TAM led to trichome nuclear size increases that had little impact on trichome branch numbers. [[FIGURE]]  Because CYCA1;2/TAM is also expressed in the guard cells, we next investigated guard cell nuclear sizes and stomatal perimeters in cotyledons of 2-week old plants of the same 16 plant lines. We used the stomatal perimeter, not the stomatal area, as an indicator of stomatal (guard cell) size because the stomatal area greatly varies with the extent of stomatal pore opening. Similar to the trichome nuclear size increases, the loss of function and overexpression of CYCA1;2/TAM also caused nuclear size increases in the guard cells, but the increases were only in tam-2 2C, ASK1:TAM3, and 35S:TAM–GFP2 (Fig. 8a; Table S2). It seems that only very high levels of CYCA1;2/TAM overexpression could result in guard cell nuclear size increases since ASK1:TAM3 and 35S:TAM–GFP2 had much higher expression levels of CYCA1;2/TAM than ASK1:TAM2 and 35S:TAM–GFP2, respectively (Fig. 4). The values of average trichome nuclear size in the affected tam-2 and overexpression lines surpassed that of Col 4C, justifying for ploidy-level increases. The increases in the affected guard cells, on the other hand, did not justify for ploidy-level increases. The correlation between guard cell nuclear size and stomatal perimeter was not consistent; larger average nuclear sizes were not always correlated with larger stomatal perimeters and similar average guard cell nuclear sizes could nonetheless be linked to different average stomatal perimeters (Fig. 8b). Figure 8c–p shows representative guard cell nuclei in 14 of the 16 plant lines studied, including tam-2 2C comp1-3, of which two showed complementation of the nuclear size defect. It is thus concluded that both the loss of function and high-levels of CYCA1;2/TAM overexpression resulted in moderate nuclear size increases in guard cells in diploid plants. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! All plant materials are Arabidopsis thaliana in the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype background. The TAM:GUS lines, the ASK1:TAM lines, the 35S:TAM–GFP lines, and the tam-2 complementation lines are new to this investigation and all the other plant lines have been previously described (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION). All plants, except for the plants for the flow cytometric study, were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.7 % agar and 1 % sucrose in growth chambers set for 22 °C and a 16-h-light and 8-h-dark regime. Plants for the flow cytometric study were grown on artificial soil in a greenhouse as previously described (Wang et al. CITATION). Six-day and older seedlings were incubated in the GUS staining solutions at 37 °C for approximately 2 days. The GUS staining solution contained 2 mM potassium ferricyanide and 2 mM potassium ferrocyanide to suppress false signals resulting from the diffusion from the truly positive cells to neighboring negative cells. Additional details about the procedure and the composition of the GUS staining solution can be found in Sundaresan et al. (CITATION). Cotyledons and the first 1–2 leaves on 13-day or older seedlings were fixed and stored in 70 % ethanol and used for the studies of nuclear and cellular morphologies and sizes. Fresh cotyledons from seedlings of comparable ages were used for the GFP analysis. Bright-field and differential interference contrast microscopy (DIC) and epifluorescence microscopy were conducted either on a Nikon 600 or a Nikon 80i microscope, and the images were acquired using a digital camera and the camera manufacturer supplied software. All the GFP images used for quantification of the GFP signals were taken with 0.25 s exposure, which did not incur overexposure. Confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscopy was conducted according to manufacturer’s (Leica inverted confocal microscope) protocol for GFP setting. Samples were mounted in water and the Z-series were recorded with a step thickness of 3.34 μm and a total of twenty optical sections. For stomatal perimeter measurements, the fixed cotyledons were stained with Sudan Black (0.08 % in 70 % ethanol) for 2 min prior to photographing on the microscope. For examination and measurement of trichome and guard cell nuclei, a 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) solution (product number F6057, Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA, or Vectashield, Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA, USA) was used to stain fixed samples for 1 h at room temperature, and then the epidermises were examined and photographed using the blue fluorescence channel for DAPI staining. All light microscopy photographs of stomata were from the abaxial epidermises of the cotyledons. Manipulations of digital images were done in Adobe Photoshop. Some DAPI-stained images were modestly adjusted for brightness and/or contrast. All the GFP images shown were not adjusted for brightness, contrast, or color. The GFP intensity values were the average green intensity values in defined areas obtained with the tracing tool in SigmaScan Pro 5 (Systat Software, San Jose, CA, USA). Nuclear sizes and stomatal perimeters were obtained by the same tool. The 1,340 bp promoter region in the TAM:GUS construct is the same as in the TAM:TAM–GFP (Wang et al. CITATION) construct and the TAM:TAM construct for tam-1 (Wang et al. CITATION) and tam-2 (this report) complementation. The ASK1 promoter in ASK1:TAM is a 687-bp fragment upstream of the start codon of the ASK1 gene (Wang and Yang CITATION). The PCR primers corresponding to the specified genomic or plasmid regions with appropriate flanking restriction enzyme sites were used to amplify and clone the fragments. ASK1:TAM was first cloned into an intermediate vector, pGEM®-7Zf(+) (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) and subsequently into pPZP121 (Wang et al. CITATION). For creating 35S:TAM–GFP, full-length CYCA1;2/TAM cDNA was cloned into the pENTR Gateway vector and recombined with the pGWB5 binary destination vector (Gateway technology, Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA). Plant transformation was carried out with the Agrobacterial strain GV3101 as previously described (Wang et al. CITATION). RNA sample preparation and the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) experiment for generating Fig. S3 was conducted as previously described (Wang et al. CITATION). To produce the quantitative real-time RT-PCR (RT-qPCR) results shown in Fig. 4, total RNAs were isolated using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) and reverse transcribed with a QuantiTect reverse transcription kit (Qiagen) that also has the ability to eliminate genomic DNA in the RNA sample. RT-qPCRs were performed using a SYBR Green PCR kit (Roche Diagnostics Corporation, Indianapolis, IN, USA) with a Roche480 Light Cycler (Roche Diagnostics Corporation). PCR amplifications were completed with a melting curve analysis to confirm the specificity of amplification and lack of primer dimers. PCR efficiencies were calculated based on a serial dilution. The ACTIN2 (ACT2) gene was used as a reference. LightCycler® 480 software version 1.5 was used for analysis of the PCR reactions. Three RNA samples were independently isolated for each plant line and four technical repeats of the PCR were conducted for each sample. Primer sequences are AAAACCATGGAATGCTACGC and GGGACAAAGCTTCTTTGCTG for CYCA1;2/TAM, and ATTCCAGCAGATGTGGATCTCCAA and AGCCTTTGATCTTGAGAGCTTAGA for ACT2. Flow cytometric analysis was conducted with the fifth rosette leaves from 5-week or older plants as previously described (Wang et al. CITATION).
