!~ABS~! Morphological plasticity of root systems is critically important for plant survival because it allows plants to optimize their capacity to take up water and nutrients from the soil environment. Here we show that a signaling module composed of nitrogen (N)-responsive CLE (CLAVATA3/ESR-related) peptides and the CLAVATA1 (CLV1) leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase is expressed in the root vasculature in Arabidopsis thaliana and plays a crucial role in regulating the expansion of the root system under N-deficient conditions. CLE1, -3, -4, and -7 were induced by N deficiency in roots, predominantly expressed in root pericycle cells, and their overexpression repressed the growth of lateral root primordia and their emergence from the primary root. In contrast, clv1 mutants showed progressive outgrowth of lateral root primordia into lateral roots under N-deficient conditions. The clv1 phenotype was reverted by introducing a CLV1 promoter-driven CLV1:GFP construct producing CLV1:GFP fusion proteins in phloem companion cells of roots. The overaccumulation of CLE2, -3, -4, and -7 in clv1 mutants suggested the amplitude of the CLE peptide signals being feedback-regulated by CLV1. When CLE3 was overexpressed under its own promoter in wild-type plants, the length of lateral roots was negatively correlated with increasing CLE3 mRNA levels; however, this inhibitory action of CLE3 was abrogated in the clv1 mutant background. Our findings identify the N-responsive CLE-CLV1 signaling module as an essential mechanism restrictively controlling the expansion of the lateral root system in N-deficient environments.
!~RES~! To investigate the N responses of CLE peptides and their involvement in root development, we conducted a gene-expression survey of CLE gene family members in Arabidopsis transcriptome data. Datasets of N-starved roots (CITATION), N-starved and N-supplied young seedlings (CITATION), and N-resupplied roots (CITATION, CITATION⇓–CITATION) were analyzed. In this initial survey, CLE3 was found to be induced by N deprivation (Fig. S1 A and B). CLE2, CLE3, and CLE6 were also found to show positive responses to resupply of N (Fig. S1 B–F). Based on these observations, we conducted real-time PCR analysis of CLE1, -2, -3, -4, -5, and -7 in roots of 14-d-old wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings grown with various NO3− supplies. A detailed analysis of CLE6 was not conducted because CLE6 mRNA was not detectable in roots under our experimental conditions. In this experiment, we found a significantly higher accumulation of CLE1, -3, -4, and -7 transcripts under N-deficient conditions (<100 μM NO3−) (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the roles of N deficiency-responsive CLE peptides and their homologs in root development, CLE1, -2, -3, 4, -5, and -7 were constitutively overexpressed under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (FIG-REF and Fig S1 G–J), which led to high expression levels of CLE genes in these transgenic lines (Fig. S1G). In agreement with a previous study (CITATION), the overexpressors for CLE1, -2, -3, -4, -5, and -7 showed a delay in flowering (Fig. S2A). A subsequent analysis of root phenotypes showed that primary root growth was not affected but total lateral root length was significantly shorter in any of the CLE overexpressors than in the wild-type (FIG-REF and Fig. S1 H–J). The effect of CLE transgenes on lateral root growth inhibition was more significant under conditions of moderate to high nitrate supply (Fig. S1L), where endogenous CLEs were repressed (FIG-REF). We further conducted microscopic analysis to determine the number of lateral root primordia and emerged lateral roots (FIG-REF, and Fig. S2 B and C). For this purpose, the total number of lateral root-initiation events was counted, and lateral root primordia and emerged lateral roots were classified according to the developmental stages I–IV, V–VII, and VIII (CITATION). Although the total lateral root density (the sum of unemerged lateral root primordia and emerged lateral roots) was not different between the overexpressors and the wild-type, the density of emerged lateral roots at stage VIII was dramatically decreased by overexpression of CLE1, -2, -3, -4, and -7 (FIG-REF and Fig. S2B). This finding was also evident from a decreased frequency of emerged lateral roots (stage VIII) and a proportionally increased frequency of unemerged lateral root primordia at stages I–IV in the overexpressors relative to the wild-type (FIG-REF and Fig. S2C). These results indicated that overexpression of CLE1, -2, -3, -4, and -7 can repress the outgrowth of lateral root primordia and their emergence from the primary root but do not affect lateral root initiation. In promoter:GFP lines, CLE1, -2, -3, -4, and -7 promoter activities were predominantly localized in pericycle cells of primary and lateral roots (FIG-REF and Fig. S2D), similar to the results shown by promoter:GUS analyses (CITATION). In CLE1 and -5 promoter:GFP lines, GFP was expressed in epidermal cells of the primary root tip (Fig. S2D). These partly overlapping spatial expression patterns suggested a functional redundancy among CLE1, -2, -3, -4, and -7, consistent with our finding that overexpression of any of the corresponding genes is sufficient to inhibit lateral root development (FIG-REF, Fig. S1 H–J, and Fig. S2 B and C). The peptide sequences of the N-responsive CLE homologs CLE1 to -7 are highly homologous to CLV3 (CITATION⇓–CITATION), which binds to the receptor CLV1 (CITATION⇓⇓⇓⇓⇓⇓–CITATION). To investigate the signaling pathways associated with CLE1 to -7 in roots, the knockout mutants of type XI LRR-RLKs including phylogenetically close members of CLV1 were collected (CITATION), and their root phenotypes were examined under low N conditions. Among these mutants, only clv1 showed a significant extension of lateral roots (Fig. S3A), which was opposite to the short lateral root phenotypes observed in CLE1 to -7 overexpressors (FIG-REF). We further investigated the root developmental traits of Arabidopsis seedlings under various N conditions, using the clv1-15 mutant obtained from the Ds transposon-inserted line collection (CITATION) and Ler as the wild-type (FIG-REF). The wild-type seedlings (Ler) showed a significant decrease in total or average lateral root length under severe N deficiency (i.e., below 100 μM NO3−) (FIG-REF). In contrast, when clv1-15 was grown under the same condition, total and average lengths of lateral roots were significantly longer than those in the wild-type (FIG-REF). The primary roots of the wild-type and clv1-15 showed similar lengths and trends to decrease under N deficiency (FIG-REF). From these results, CLV1 was suggested to mediate the N-responsive CLE peptide signaling pathways controlling lateral root development under N-deficient conditions. [[FIGURE]] A repressive action of CLV1 on lateral root development was further supported by the analysis of root traits in allelic mutants of clv1 (CITATION, CITATION) and in transgenic lines expressing the CLV1 promoter-driven CLV1:GFP fusion gene (Fig. S4A) in the clv1-4 background. On low-N medium, five allelic mutants of clv1 (clv1-1, clv1-4, clv1-6, clv1-11, and clv1-15) exhibited significantly elongated lateral roots compared with the wild-type (FIG-REF), whereas expression of CLV1:GFP in clv1-4 reverted these root phenotypes (FIG-REF). These results indicated that the CLV1:GFP fusion protein was capable of restoring the root phenotypes in clv1-4. Although lateral root length was significantly altered, primary root length was not consistently affected in clv1 mutants or CLV1:GFP lines (FIG-REF). Microscopic analysis indicated that the density of emerged lateral roots (stage VIII) was significantly increased in clv1 mutants relative to wild-type plants (FIG-REF). This result was expressed by an increased frequency of emerged lateral roots (stage VIII) and a proportional decrease in unemerged lateral root primordia at stages I–IV (FIG-REF). Subsequent analysis of two CLV1:GFP lines (CLV1:GFP 15-1 and 16-4) with their background line (clv1-4) showed that the density of emerged lateral roots was substantially decreased by expression of CLV1:GFP (FIG-REF). This result was also shown by a decreased frequency of these emerged lateral roots and an increased frequency of unemerged lateral root primordia at stages I–IV in the CLV1:GFP lines relative to the clv1-4 mutant (FIG-REF). Total lateral root densities were slightly increased in clv1-15 and decreased in CLV1:GFP lines; however, these changes were mostly projected on the number of emerged lateral roots indicating the effect on stage progression (FIG-REF). Taken together, this set of experiments indicated a repressive role of CLV1 in regulating the growth of lateral root primordia and their emergence from the primary root. Confocal microscopy revealed localization of CLV1:GFP fusion proteins in the phloem companion cells of both primary and lateral roots (FIG-REF and Fig. S4C), indicating their spatial separation from pericycle cells where CLE1, -2, -3, -4, and -7 promoter activities were predominantly localized (FIG-REF and Fig. S2D). In shoots, CLV1:GFP was found in the shoot apical meristem (Fig. S4D) and restored the silique-defective phenotype of clv1-4 (Fig. S4E), indicating its ability to fulfill a similar function as the CLV1:double-GFP fusion protein (CITATION). Thus, CLV1 and CLE1 to -7 were localized in different cell types in roots, although they both conferred an inhibition of lateral root development under N-deficient conditions (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). To further investigate their relationship in roots, we analyzed CLE1 to -7 transcript levels in wild-type and clv1 roots and observed a significant overaccumulation of CLE2, -3, -4, and -7 in clv1-4 and clv1-15 (FIG-REF). CLE1 and CLE5 mRNA levels accumulated to a lower extent in clv1. These results suggested feedback regulation of CLE2, -3, -4, and -7 by CLV1 in wild-type roots, as observed for CLV3 in the shoot apical meristem (CITATION, CITATION). Based on results obtained from analysis of CLE overexpressors and clv1 mutants, we hypothesized that overexpression of N-responsive induction of CLEs in roots should cause inhibition of lateral root development in wild-type but not in clv1 mutant plants, if the CLE-CLV1 signaling module is functional in roots. To test this hypothesis, transgenic lines were prepared to overexpress CLE3 under control of its native promoter in the wild-type and clv1-4 mutant background (FIG-REF and Fig. S5). CLE3 was chosen for this experiment because it was among the most up-regulated CLE genes under N deficiency (FIG-REF). To enhance transcriptional/translational efficiency yet conserving the original expression pattern of CLE3 in roots, we inserted a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S gene minimal promoter (35Smin) (CITATION) and a tobacco mosaic virus-derived Ω sequence (CITATION) between the native CLE3 promoter and the coding region (Fig. S5A). The resulting CLE3 promoter-35Smin-Ω-CLE3 (C3P3) fusion construct was introduced into wild-type (Ler) and clv1-4 mutant plants and root phenotypes were analyzed. In CLE3 promoter-35Smin-Ω-GFP (C3PG) lines, a strong promoter activity was found in the central cylinder of roots and in primary and lateral root tips (Fig. S5 B and C). Unlike transgenic lines that constitutively expressed CLE1 to -7 (Fig. S2A), C3P3-expressing lines in wild-type (Ler) background did not show any phenotypic defects in shoots and the shoot apical meristem (Fig. S5D). [[FIGURE]] C3P3-expressing lines were then subjected to a quantitative assessment of lateral root phenotypes (FIG-REF). Root lengths and CLE3 mRNA levels were examined in 80 individual seedlings from the T2 generation by collecting 10–14 individuals from seven independent transgenic lines each from the Ler or clv1-4 background. Root lengths of individual seedlings were normalized by values of their backgrounds (Ler or clv1-4) to compare the relative effect of CLE3 overexpression in these two different populations (absolute values are shown in Fig. S5 E and F). These normalized root-length values (PRsample/PRcont or LRsample/LRcont) were then plotted against CLE3 mRNA levels (FIG-REF). The slope of the regression line indicates the quantitative extent of root growth inhibition caused by increasing CLE3 expression levels. The results indicated that primary root length was not altered by CLE3 expression in either background (FIG-REF). In contrast, total lateral root length was substantially decreased with increasing CLE3 expression levels in Ler but only slightly in clv1-4 (FIG-REF). As revealed by the top three lines showing the highest CLE3 mRNA levels in either background (Fig. S5 G and H), root-specific expression of CLE3 inhibited lateral root development in wild-type but not in clv1-4 mutant plants. The slope of the regression line was −0.34 for the Ler but only −0.09 for the clv1-4 background, demonstrating that an almost fourfold greater reduction of total lateral root length occurred in wild-type relative to clv1-4 mutant plants (FIG-REF). The significant difference in CLE3-dependent inhibition of lateral root development between Ler and clv1-4 was supported by an analysis of covariance (P < 0.001).
!~MM~! For root phenotypic analysis, Arabidopsis plants were grown vertically on nutrient media (CITATION) containing 1% agar and 1% sucrose under a diurnal cycle of 16-h light and 8-h dark at 22 °C. To modify NO3− concentrations in the medium, Ca(NO3)2 or KNO3 were replaced with CaCl2 or KCl, respectively. The clv1-1, clv1-4, clv1-6, and clv1-11 are Ler background mutants reported previously (CITATION, CITATION). The clv1-15 mutant (ET13689) was obtained from the Ds transposon-inserted line collection (CITATION). The LRR-RLK type XI knockout mutants (CITATION) are in Col background. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were constructed as described in SI Materials and Methods. Plants grown on vertical plates were scanned (EPSON Perfection 4990 PHOTO; Seiko Epson), and the images of roots were traced using Photoshop CS2 (Adobe Systems). Root lengths were measured from traced images using WinRHIZO (Reagent Instruments). For the determination of lateral root numbers, plants were grown on agar medium for 7 d, and roots were cleared with hydroxylamine hydrochloride (CITATION). Lateral root number was counted under a microscope, and lateral root initials and emerged lateral roots were classified to stages I–IV, V–VII, and VIII (CITATION) for separate calculation of their densities (i.e., numbers of lateral root primordia or lateral roots per unit length of primary root). The primary root length was measured from the scanned images using WinRHIZO, as described above. Total RNA was extracted from roots using RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA using omniscript reverse transcriptase (Qiagen) and oligo-d(T)12–18 primer (Invitrogen), and was used for quantitative real-time PCR. Real-time RT-PCR was performed by using SYBR Premix Ex Taq II (Takara) and 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems). Relative transcript levels were calculated by comparative cycle threshold method (ΔΔCt method). Ubiquitin 2 was used as an internal control. The primer sequences for real-time PCR are listed in Table S2. Expression of GFP was analyzed with the laser scanning confocal microscopy system FluoView 500 (Olympus). Roots of CLE3 promoter:GFP, CLV1:GFP and C3PG plants were counter stained with propidium iodide.
