!~ABS~! Post-translational modification by ubiquitin plays a key role in the regulation of endocytic degradation in which ubiquitinated plasma membrane cargos are transported to the vacuole for degradation dependent on the ESCRT (endosomal sorting complex required for transport) machinery. Arabidopsis AMSH3 (ASSOCIATED MOLECULE WITH THE SH3 DOMAIN OF STAM 3) is a deubiquitinating enzyme that interacts with at least two subunits of the ESCRT-III machinery, VPS2.1 and VPS24.1. amsh3 null mutation causes seedling lethality, and amsh3 null mutants show defects in multiple intracellular trafficking pathways. In this study, we further analyzed the amsh3 mutant phenotype and showed that amsh3 accumulates membrane-associated ubiquitinated proteins, supporting the indication that AMSH3 functions in ubiquitin-mediated endocytic degradation. In accordance with this, an enzymatic inactive variant of AMSH3 inhibits the AvrPtoB-dependent endocytic degradation of CERK1 (CHITIN ELICITOR RECEPTOR KINASE 1). Furthermore, we showed that the interaction of AMSH3 with ESCRT-III is important for its function in planta. Together, our data indicate the importance of AMSH3 and the AMSH3–ESCRT-III interaction for deubiquitination and degradation of ubiquitinated membrane substrates in plants.
!~RES~! amsh3 null mutants were previously shown to be defective in central vacuole biogenesis and in a number of intracellular trafficking events. For example, amsh3 mutants show defects in transport of PIN-FORMED 2 (PIN2)–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and an artificial vacuolar cargo CT24–GFP to the vacuole (CITATION). To examine endosomal trafficking in more detail, we analyzed the behavior of PIN2–GFP in the root epidermis cells of wild-type and amsh3 seedlings. Endosomal trafficking of PIN2–GFP can be pharmaceutically inhibited by treatment of seedlings with BFA, a fungal toxin and inhibitor of protein transport, or WM, an inhibitor of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and PI4K that inhibits endosomal trafficking. Upon BFA treatment, PIN2–GFP was shown to accumulate in BFA-induced cytosolic aggregates or so-called BFA bodies (CITATION, CITATION). In wild-type root epidermis cells, large BFA bodies with a median size of 6.80 µm2 (n = 48 cells) were observed after 60 min of BFA treatment (Fig. 1A, left panel, Fig. 1C). In contrast, in the amsh3 mutants, BFA bodies were much smaller with a median size of 1.80 µm2 (n = 53 cells) (Fig. 1A, right panel, Fig. 1C), suggesting that amsh3 is defective in the formation of large PIN2–GFP-positive BFA bodies or that formation of BFA bodies is delayed in amsh3. Upon treatment with WM, PIN2–GFP was shown to accumulate in large ring-like structures (CITATION) and, indeed, WM-induced structures appeared after 120 min of treatment and had a median area of 1.81 µm2 (n = 30 cells) in wild-type cells (Fig. 1B, left panel, Fig. 1D). Under the same conditions, however, PIN2–GFP accumulated in much smaller structures with a median size of 1.18 µm2 (n = 52 cells) in amsh3 cells (Fig. 1B, right panel, Fig. 1D), suggesting that amsh3 is also impaired in efficiently forming WM-induced structures.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate further BFA body formation in amsh3, we examined the staining with the endocytosis tracer FM4-64 upon BFA treatment in both the wild type and amsh3. The seedlings were pre-incubated with FM4-64 for 10 min before treatment with BFA. The behavior of FM4-64 was imaged over the time-course of the experiment. In wild-type seedlings, accumulation of FM4-64 became clear after 20 min (Fig. 2). In contrast, in amsh3, formation of FM4-64-stained BFA bodies was observed much later, after around 110 min. Since the uptake of FM4-64 is not delayed in amsh3 when compared with the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S1), these data indicate that endosomal trafficking, especially in regard to BFA- and WM-affected factors, is somehow altered in amsh3.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We have previously shown that amsh3 mutants as well as a dominant-negative and enzymatic inactive AMSH3(AXA)-expressing plants accumulate ubiquitinated proteins at high levels (CITATION). If the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins in amsh3 were due to its defects in intracellular trafficking, pharmaceutical treatments that inhibit endocytic degradation of (ubiquitinated) membrane proteins would also cause the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins. To test this possibility, we examined the alteration in the abundance of ubiquitinated proteins upon pharmaceutical inhibition of endocytosis. We treated wild-type seedlings with different endocytosis inhibitors, the clathrin-dependent endocytosis inhibitor tyrphostin A23 (A23), BFA, WM and the vacuole protease inhibitor E-64d. Treatment with tyrphostin A23 showed only a slight increase in ubiquitin conjugates. However, BFA and WM treatment led to the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins at much higher levels in comparison with the mock treatment (Fig. 3A), indicating that general inhibition of endocytosis can indeed cause accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins, similar to inhibition of AMSH3 function. E-64d treatment leads to only moderate changes in the ubiquitin profile, suggesting that the ubiquitin chains are probably removed prior to degradation in the vacuole.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the accumulated ubiquitinated proteins in amsh3 mutants are indeed membrane or membrane-associated proteins, we performed cell fractionation by ultracentrifugation with total protein extracts of wild type, amsh3 and AMSH3(AXA)-overexpressing seedlings. Immunoblotting with an anti-ubiquitin antibody revealed that the majority of ubiquitinated proteins were enriched in the microsomal pellet fraction (P100) (Fig. 3B, C). The two control proteins mCherry–Rab7Gf (wave5y) (CITATION) and UGPase were almost exclusively found in the P100 and S100 fraction, respectively. These results indicate that ubiquitinated proteins accumulated in both amsh3 and AMSH3(AXA)-overexpressing plants are indeed membrane associated and might represent membrane cargos. To examine whether AMSH DUB activity can affect the stability of known endocytic cargo proteins, we next analyzed the AvrPtoB-dependent endocytic degradation of CERK1 in a transient system. AvrPtoB is a type III effector protein possessing E3 ubiquitin ligase activity that is secreted by the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae to suppress plant immunity (CITATION, CITATION). AvrptoB-dependent ubiquitination and degradation of the Arabidopsis plasma membrane receptor CERK1 can be reconstituted by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (CITATION). We used this system to test whether AMSH enzymes play a role in CERK1 turnover. We expressed the enzymatically inactive, dominant-negative, AMSH1(AXA) and AMSH3(AXA) constructs under an ethanol-inducible promoter, together with AvrPtoB and CERK1. Without ethanol, CERK1-HA was rapidly degraded in the presence of AvrPtoB, as previously reported (CITATION). Importantly, ethanol-induced expression of the AXA constructs completely inhibited AvrPtoB-directed CERK1-HA degradation (Fig. 5), indicating that AMSH enzymes are required for endocytic degradation of this receptor. Furthermore, expression of the AXA constructs also increased the levels of CERK1 accumulation in the absence of AvrptoB, suggesting that there is a basal rate of AMSH-dependent CERK1 degradation even when the bacterial effector is not present. Next we wanted to examine the cellular compartment where the ubiquitinated proteins and AMSH3 localize. For this purpose, we performed size exclusion chromatography from total extracts of seedlings overexpressing AMSH3(AXA). AMSH3 mostly appears as a monomeric protein in lower molecular weight fractions, not associated with high molecular weight complexes. However, a small portion of AMSH3(AXA) and ubiquitinated proteins co-elute at a higher molecular weight (Fig. 4A), suggesting that they might be associated with cellular organelles. To investigate whether AMSH3 co-fractionates with known organelle markers, we therefore further performed a sucrose gradient fractionation from the membrane fraction (P100) obtained from Arabidopsis cell culture. AMSH3 does not show a clear co-fractionation with any of the tested markers (V-ATPase, BiP, SEC21 and CHC) (Fig. 4B) under this condition, suggesting that AMSH3 is not a stable component of the vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi or clathrin-positive endosomal membranes.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Although we could not find evidence for stable interaction of AMSH3 with specific cellular structures, AMSH3 were previously shown to interact directly with ESCRT-III subunits VPS2.1 and VPS24.1 (CITATION). To examine the importance of this interaction in planta, we carried out mutational analysis of the ESCRT-III–AMSH3 binding domain. It was previously shown that a mutation in the VPS2.1 C-terminal MIM disrupts the interaction between VPS2.1 and AMSH3, indicating the importance of this domain for the interaction with AMSH3. To establish whether the MIM of VPS2.1 is sufficient for the interaction, we purified glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fused MIM of VPS2.1 [GST–VPS2.1(MIM)[(Supplementary Fig. S2) and performed an in vitro binding assay with full-length AMSH3 or GST. GST–VPS2.1(MIM), but not the GST moiety alone, could pull-down AMSH3, indicating that the MIM region of VPS2.1 is indeed sufficient for the interaction (Fig. 6A, B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify that the MIT domain is required for the direct interaction between AMSH3 and VPS2.1, we again performed an in vitro binding assay with recombinant GST–VPS2.1 or GST and AMSH3 without the MIT domain [AMSH3(ΔMIT)]. When GST–VPS2.1 and GST were incubated with either full-length AMSH3 or AMSH3(ΔMIT), only full-length AMSH3, but not AMSH3(ΔMIT) was pulled-down by GST–VPS2.1 (Fig. 6B, C; Supplementary Fig. S3), indicating that the MIT domain is necessary for the direct interaction between the ESCRT-III subunit VPS2.1 and AMSH3. The MIT domain is not essential for the DUB activity of AMSH3, since AMSH3(ΔMIT) was still able to cleave K48- and K63-linked ubiquitin chains in a DUB assay (Fig. 6D). We next wanted to investigate whether the interaction with ESCRT-III is important for AMSH3 function and to test whether the MIT domain is essential for AMSH3 function in vivo. Since we could not recover transgenic plants overexpressing HA-AMSH3(ΔMIT), we generated a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible AMSH3(ΔMIT) construct and transformed this into amsh3 mutants. The expression of AMSH3(WT) in amsh3 upon germination, in contrast to 35S:HA-AMSH3 (CITATION), does not completely complement the developmental phenotype of amsh3 (Fig. 7A, B), indicating that AMSH3 function is essential already before germination, probably during embryogenesis. Nonetheless, when AMSH3(WT) is expressed in an amsh3 background, cotyledons opened and became green, which normally does not happen in amsh3 mutants. In contrast, amsh3 mutants expressing AMSH3(ΔMIT) remained white and its cotyledons did not open even though the AMSH3(ΔMIT) protein could be detected by immunoblotting (Fig. 7A, B). This result shows that the MIT domain, and hence the interaction of AMSH3 with ESCRT-III subunits, is essential for AMSH3 function in vivo.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments were performed in the A. thaliana Columbia-0 background. Plant transformations were carried out using the floral dip method (CITATION). Seedlings were grown in continuous light, at 110–120 µmol m−2 s−1 light intensity. Standard Murashige and Skoog (MS) growth medium (Duchefa Biochemie) (2.15 g l–1 MS, 2.3 mM MES, pH 5.7) supplemented with 1% sucrose was used to grow seedlings. Adult plants were grown on soil. For DEX induction, a final concentration of 30 µM DEX (Duchefa) was added to the medium. PIN2:PIN2–GFP (CITATION) was previously published. For drug treatment, 11-day-old seedlings were treated with 20 µM tyrphostin A23 (Sigma Aldrich), 25 µM BFA (Fisher Scientific), 20 µM WM (Applichem) or 100 µM E-64d (Santa Cruz) for 12 h. All primers used for cloning and subcloning are listed in Supplementary Table S1. To yield GST–AMSH3(ΔMIT) and DEX:AMSH3(ΔMIT), a fragment of AMSH3 was amplified using primers 5′-AAGGGGATCCGAGGATGAATCCCGTCA-3′ and 5′-AAGGGCGGCCGGTTAGCGGAGATCGAGGA-3′ or 5′-AAGGCTCGAGATGGATGAATCCCGTCAGGAT-3′ and 5′-AAGGACTAGTTTAGCGGAGATCGAGGAC-3′, respectively, and cloned between the BamHI and NotI sites of pGEX6P1 (Healthcare Life Sciences) or between the XhoI and SpeI sites of pTA7002 (CITATION), respectively. AMSH1(AXA) and AMSH3(AXA) were cloned into vector pBINSRNA for ethanol-inducible expression. For the transformation of N. benthamiana, Agrobacterium cells in late exponential phase (<20 h growth in liquid medium) were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in infiltration buffer containing 10 mM MES-KOH (pH 5.6), 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 µM acetosyringone), diluted to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.3 and mixed according to the different experiments. Bacteria were injected into leaves of 5-week-old N. benthamiana plants. Two days after infiltration, plants were covered with a plastic bag, with or without an open 1.5 ml tube containing ethanol to produce ethanol vapors for the induction of the expression of AMSH3(AXA) or AMSH1(AXA). The leaf discs of the infiltrated leaves were harvested after overnight induction and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Proteins were extracted with SDS–PAGE loading buffer. Total protein extracts were prepared in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100) supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting were performed according to standard methods. Antibodies used are: anti-AMSH3 (CITATION), anti-CDC2 (Santa Cruz), anti-HA (Roche), anti-mCherry (MBL), anti-UB (Santa Cruz), anti-UGPase (Agrisera), anti-CHC (Agrisera), anti-V-ATPase (Agrisera), anti-SEC21 (Agrisera) and anti-BiP (Enzo Life Sciences). Protein purification and in vitro binding assay were performed as described previously (CITATION). The in vitro DUB assay was performed as described previously (CITATION). To separate the microsomal (P100) from the soluble (S100) fraction, ultracentrifugation was performed as described previously (CITATION). Gel filtration with a Superose 6 (GE Healthcare Life Sciences) column was performed with 2 mg of plant total extracts as described before (CITATION). Sucrose density gradient centrifugation of the membrane fraction (P100) was performed on a linear sucrose gradient. Arabidopsis cultured cells were collected from 100 ml of culture and washed twice with WD buffer (0.4 M mannitol, 8 mM CaCl2). Cells were protoplasted by incubation in WD buffer containing 1% cellulase and 0.25% macerozyme for 3 h as described before (CITATION). Protoplasts were washed twice with WD buffer and homogenized using a glass tube and a pestle, centrifuged at 2,000 × g for 20 min at 4°C and the supernatant was used for ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g to yield the P100 pellet. The P100 pellet was dissolved in 600 µl of sucrose buffer (400 mM sucrose, 50 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.5, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA pH 7.5), loaded on top of a linear 15–45% sucrose gradient and centrifuged at 150,000 × g for 16 h. Fractions of 200 µl were collected from top to bottom and proteins in each fraction were subsequently precipitated by trichloroacetic acid. The sucrose concentration in each fraction was determined by a refractometer. GFP-fused proteins were analyzed with an FV-1000/IX81 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus) with a UPlanSApo X60/1.20 (Olympus) objective using the 488 nm laser line. For FM4-64 staining, seedlings were incubated with 2 µM FM4-64 for 10 min before observation. BFA (Fisher Scientific) and WM (Applichem) were added at a final concentration of 50 µM and 33 µM, respectively, in liquid media. Images were processed and quantified using Fluoview (Olympus) and Photoshop CS6 (Adobe).
