!~ABS~! Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is the major mechanism for eukaryotic plasma membrane-based proteome turn-over. In plants, clathrin-mediated endocytosis is essential for physiology and development, but the identification and organization of the machinery operating this process remains largely obscure. Here, we identified an eight-core-component protein complex, the TPLATE complex, essential for plant growth via its role as major adaptor module for clathrin-mediated endocytosis. This complex consists of evolutionarily unique proteins that associate closely with core endocytic elements. The TPLATE complex is recruited as dynamic foci at the plasma membrane preceding recruitment of adaptor protein complex 2, clathrin, and dynamin-related proteins. Reduced function of different complex components severely impaired internalization of assorted endocytic cargoes, demonstrating its pivotal role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Taken together, the TPLATE complex is an early endocytic module representing a unique evolutionary plant adaptation of the canonical eukaryotic pathway for clathrin-mediated endocytosis.
!~RES~! Previously, we identified TPLATE as a plant-specific protein with a similar developmental mutant phenotype as the Arabidopsis dynamin drp1c. Copurification with clathrin furthermore suggested that TPLATE functions in membrane trafficking (CITATION). Clathrin coats are abundant at the plant trans-Golgi Network/early endosome (TGN/EE), as well as at the PM (CITATION). In interphase Arabidopsis root cells, clathrin light chain2 (CLC2) and TPLATE only colocalized at the PM (CITATION A), which favors a role for TPLATE in clathrin-dependent processes occurring at the PM, rather than at the TGN/EE. We used tandem affinity purification (TAP) experiments in PSB-D Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells to identify putative TPLATE interactors. Four independent TAP experiments with TPLATE as bait reproducibly identified seven interacting proteins of unknown function with molecular weights (MW) ranging from 17 kDa to 176 kDa. We named these TASH3, AtEH1, AtEH2, LOLITA, TML, TWD40-1, and TWD40-2 based on the presence of specific protein domains (CITATION A and CITATION, CITATION, CITATION available online). An in silico comparison of all TPC subunits against human and yeast genomes showed that the TPC subunits have no obvious counterparts in those kingdoms, although they likely share a common evolutionary origin with trafficking proteins (CITATION). A total of 28 reverse TAP experiments using these seven TPLATE prey proteins as baits reciprocally recovered all eight interactors with very high efficiency (CITATIONB; CITATION and CITATION), suggesting that they represent a stable complex of eight core components, which we named the TPLATE complex (TPC). Two-dimensional (2D) Blue-Native/SDS-PAGE revealed that both TPLATE and TML appeared as monomers and incorporated into larger protein complexes of various sizes up to approximately 800 kDa (CITATIONB). Without posttranslational modifications, the combined molecular mass of the eight subunits in the TPC complex identified by chromatography was estimated to be 918 kDa (CITATION), which corresponds well with the 2D-PAGE observations. The range of complex sizes might reflect different stages of complex assembly/disassembly or complex degradation during extraction and/or gel separation. Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitation (coIP) experiments (CITATIONC), yeast two hybrid experiments (Y2H) and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays (CITATIOND and S1E) independently confirmed interactions between several of the subunits of this complex. The reverse TAP experiments also revealed a link between the TPC and members of the dynamin protein family (DRP1A, DRP1C, DRP1E, DRP2A, and DRP2B) and the small (AP2S) and alpha1 (AP2A1) subunits of the Arabidopsis AP2 Adaptor protein complex (CITATION). Subsequent TAP experiments in cell suspensions using clathrin heavy chain1 (CHC1) as bait revealed additional interactions with other subunits of the clathrin scaffold (CITATIONB; CITATION and CITATION). In addition, affinity-purification experiments using functional TPLATE-GFP or TML-YFP followed by mass spectrometry analysis (APMS) and by western blotting (coIP) confirmed the composition of the TPC in planta and its relation with DRPs, CLCs, CHCs, and AP2. Moreover, these APMS experiments identified two proteins containing an AP180 N-terminal homology (ANTH) domain (AtECA4 and CAP1; CITATIONB, 1C, and CITATIONA; CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION). Notably, in silico searches revealed putative clathrin-binding boxes, AP2 complex recognition motifs, and sorting motifs in many subunits of the TPC (CITATIONA). Taken together, we demonstrate that TPLATE assembles into a robust multimeric protein complex that physically interacts with DRPs, AP2 complex subunits, ANTH domain-containing proteins, and clathrins, supporting its involvement in CME. Similar to the tplate, clc1, and drp1c mutants (CITATION), which function in CME and produce unviable pollen grains, mutants in four newly identified TPC subunits displayed a fully penetrant pollen defect causing male sterility. Six mutant alleles of four subunits of the TPC showed failure in male transmission of the mutation (CITATION A; CITATION ). In agreement with an essential role of these proteins for pollen development, these phenotypes also correlated with the occurrence of shriveled and normal pollen in a 1:1 ratio revealed by scanning electron microscopy analysis (CITATION A and CITATIONB). In contrast, female transmission of the mutation occurred normally or with slightly decreased ratios (CITATION). All subunits of the identified complex localized exclusively to the PM in Arabidopsis root cells (CITATIONC). Moreover, expression of fluorescent fusion protein-tagged forms of TML (TML-FFP) under control of its endogenous promoter rescued the male transmission failure of both tml-1 and tml-2 mutant alleles (CITATION), demonstrating that TML-FFP is functional. Confocal microscopy revealed recruitment of TML fusions to the PM and the growing cell plate in Arabidopsis root cells (CITATIONB, 2C, and 2F), to the pollen tube exit site (CITATIOND), and to the shank of growing pollen tubes while being excluded from the very tip (CITATIONE). These localizations are in agreement with previous reports on TPLATE and DRP localizations (CITATION). Furthermore, the identical localizations and mutant phenotypes of individual TPC subunits strongly confirm our proteomics data of a single multimeric protein complex. The TML subunit has a μ homology domain (μHD) in its C terminus (CITATION; CITATIONA) that generally is involved in membrane interactions, cargo recognition, and binding and recruitment of accessory proteins (CITATION). In contrast to full-length TML, truncating the μHD (TMLΔC) or expression of the C-terminal part of this domain (GFP-CtermTML) resulted in cytoplasmic localization (CITATIONF–2I). Furthermore, APMS experiments using TMLΔC as bait could not recover certain TPC core components (CITATIOND; CITATION and CITATION) and caused a reduction in TPC complex size (CITATIONE), suggesting that an intact μHD of TML is required for PM recruitment and for full TPC assembly. The μHD is a common feature of adaptor proteins such as the medium subunit adaptins (AP1 to 5), the cargo-specific stonins, delta COPI proteins, the SH3-containing GRB2-like protein 3-interacting protein 1 (SGIP1), suppressor of yeast profilin 1 (SYP1), and FCH domain-only (FCHo) proteins. We performed an extensive phylogenetic analysis of all above-mentioned protein families encoded in human, yeast, Arabidopsis, and a set of evolutionarily diverse plant species. For all major classes of APs, plant, yeast, and animal homologs clustered together, while TML and its homologs clustered with the muniscin proteins SGIP1 and FCHo/SYP1 (CITATION) (CITATIONJ and CITATIONF), further suggesting that the TML containing TPC functions as an early endocytic adaptor complex in plants. Typically, CME is characterized by dynamic recruitment and assembly of different effector proteins at the PM (CITATION). The close proteomic relationship of TPC components with the core CME machinery, and the PM localization of these proteins, prompted us to characterize their dynamic localization at the PM (CITATION A and CITATION). Similar to AP2A1-GFP and CLC2-mORANGE, TPC components including TPLATE-, TML-, AtEH1-, AtEH2-, LOLITA-, and TASH3-GFP dynamically appeared and disappeared as discrete foci which did not show any lateral mobility (CITATIONA and CITATION ; CITATION). Quantification of the dynamic behavior of TPLATE-, TML-, and AP2A1-positive foci showed that they had comparable average dwell times at the PM ranging between 7 and 38 s (CITATIONB). Consistent with a function in a common process, TML-positive foci showed a high degree of colocalization with both CLC2 and DRP1C (∼70% and ∼80% respectively, CITATIONC and 3D). In nearly all of the colocalizing foci, TML was recruited to the PM earlier than or concomitant with CLC2 (CITATIONC and 3D; CITATION). DRP1C, which has a late function in CME (CITATION), was consistently recruited late to the TML-positive foci (CITATIONC and 3D; CITATION). These observations suggest that recruitment of the TPC to the PM marks early events of CME in plants. During CME in higher eukaryotes, the heterotetrameric AP2 complex is essential for cargo recognition and initiation of coat formation via clathrin recruitment to the PM (CITATION). Our proteomics approach linked several members of the TPC with AP2A1 and AP2S, two subunits of the Arabidopsis heterotetrameric AP2 complex (CITATION). In addition, AP2A1 showed similar dynamic behavior as TPC subunits (CITATIONA and 3B; CITATION), it colocalized exclusively at the PM with TPLATE and TML, and AP2A specifically coimmunoprecipitated with TPLATE (CITATION A and S4B). To further elucidate the relationship between AP2 and the TPC, we visualized their dynamic behavior at the PM (CITATION A, 4B, CITATIONC, and S4D; CITATION and CITATION). The majority of the fluorescent foci containing TPLATE and TML colocalized with AP2A1. A time-course analysis of the dynamic behavior of these foci followed by time-projection of the individual frames exceeding the average life-times of the foci at the PM (t = 50 s), revealed the occurrence of three different populations of dynamic foci. Roughly 50% of foci showed colocalization between TPLATE/TML and AP2A1. In addition, two populations of foci occurred that only recruited either TPLATE/TML (∼30%) or AP2A1 (∼20%; CITATIONC). Both TPLATE and TML colocalized with AP2A1 with similar ratios, consistent with their function in a common complex. The occurrence of these three populations of endocytic foci suggests that the TPC and AP2 have overlapping, but also distinct functions. To establish the order of recruitment between the different complexes, we performed a detailed analysis of those foci that acquired both TPLATE/TML and AP2A1. We found a strong, yet not exclusive tendency for TPC subunits to arrive at the PM prior to AP2 and to remain present after AP2 removal by vesicle scission (CITATIONC and S4D). Together, these data support the idea that the TPC acts as an early modulator of CME in concert with AP2. The recruitment of TPC subunits to endocytic foci at the PM, together with the male gametophytic phenotype, suggests a pivotal function for this complex in CME but the lethal phenotype also inhibits any functional genetic approach. We therefore used an artificial micro RNA (amiR)-based silencing approach (CITATION) to unravel the somatic function of this complex. Constitutive silencing using amiR constructs directed against TPLATE or TML (amiR-TPLATE and amiR-TML) resulted in poorly developing seedlings that died before forming true leaves. This phenotype correlated with a substantial reduction of TPLATE or TML mRNA levels (CITATION A and S5B) and corroborates that the TPC proteins are essential for plant survival. Notably, the transcript level for the medium subunit of the Arabidopsis C-terminal μHD-containing AP2 complex subunit AP2M was upregulated in amiR-TML seedlings (CITATIONB), excluding unspecific silencing of AP2M. To investigate whether constitutive knockdown of TML and TPLATE in seedlings impaired endocytosis, we used the endocytic tracer FM4-64. In wild-type Arabidopsis roots, a short-term FM4-64 pulse labels the PM and subsequently early endosomes on its way to the vacuole (CITATION). In contrast, in seedlings expressing the amiR-TPLATE or amiR-TML, uptake of FM4-64 from the PM into endosomes was strongly inhibited (CITATIONA and S5B). The endocytic defect was visualized more prominently by application of the fungal toxin Brefeldin A (BFA), which aggregates early endosomes (TGN/EE) in so-called BFA bodies and blocks recycling of internalized membrane to the PM (CITATION). As a consequence, endocytosed material becomes trapped in the aggregated TGN/EE (CITATION). Quantification of both BFA body distribution and FM4-64 fluorescence intensity showed a clear reduction both in the amount of BFA bodies and in dye accumulation in roots expressing amiR-TML as compared to wild-type (CITATIONC). The seedling lethality of constitutive silencing was overcome by expressing the amiR-TML and amiR-TPLATE under an estradiol inducible promoter (CITATION). Estradiol-induced expression of amiR-TML and amiR-TPLATE substantially reduced mRNA levels of both genes and caused severe seedling growth retardation, decreased root apical meristem size, bulging of root epidermal cells that reflect defective root hair morphogenesis (CITATIOND–S5G), and ultimately seedling lethality. We also observed defects in graviperception compared to control lines or lines grown without induction (CITATIONH) and block of FM4-64 uptake in root cells (CITATIONI) as observed with the constitutively silenced lines. Following BFA treatment, FM4-64 prominently decorated BFA-bodies in control lines, while only a very faint internalized FM4-64 signal could be detected in the induced amiR-TML lines (CITATION A). To investigate a more general role for the TPC in CME, we examined the trafficking of a GFP-tagged form of the brassinosteroid (BR) receptor, BR insensitive1 (BRI1) in inducible amiR-TML lines. BRI1-GFP cycles constitutively between the PM and TGN/EE (CITATION), and its internalization depends on clathrin (CITATION). Consistent with a broad CME-related function of the TPC, the induction of amiR-TML correlated with an increased BRI1-GFP labeling of the PM compared to control seedlings (CITATIONA and 5B). The endosomal aggregation of BRI1 furthermore demonstrated that the BFA effect was not impaired after induction of the amiR-TML (CITATIONA). This corroborates that the reduced labeling of BFA bodies by FM4-64 in the induced amiR-TML seedlings was due to a defect in endocytic uptake of the dye, and thus highlighted a general defect in endocytosis. In addition, the recently reported AlexaFluor 647-coupled castasterone (AFCS), which acts as a ligand of BRI1, readily labeled the vacuolar lumen in control seedlings, but did not internalize in estradiol-induced amiR-TML cells (CITATIONC). Taken together, the enhanced PM accumulation of BRI1 and the inhibition of AFCS uptake in amiR-TML lines are in agreement with defective endocytosis of BRI1 (CITATION) upon downregulation of TML expression. Silencing of TML also reduced the accumulation of endogenous AP2A at the PM and forming cell plates (CITATIOND) which links the observed BRI1 and AFCS internalization defects in the amiR-TML seedlings to the AP2-dependent internalization of BRI1 and AFCS (CITATION). The polarly localized auxin transport proteins PIN1 and PIN2 (CITATION) are internalized via CME (CITATION) and their endocytic dynamics can be readily visualized by BFA treatment (CITATION). In agreement with a general function for the TPC in CME, the accumulation of internalized PIN1 and PIN2 in BFA bodies was severely reduced in induced amiR-TML seedlings compared to controls (CITATIONE and 5F). Another reported defect caused by general inhibition of both clathrin and dynamin function is the ectopic accumulation of the cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE at the PM and cortical division zone (CITATION). Consistent with a general defect in CME, we found that many recently divided cells in induced amiR-TML roots showed ectopic KNOLLE localization, while such patterns were rarely observed in control roots (CITATIONG and 5H). In summary, the alteration in internalization and localization of several well-established cargoes of CME highlights the TPC as an essential novel regulator of early events of CME. This notion is further supported by the observation that silencing of TML results in a lower abundance of AP2A at the PM and cell plates.
!~MM~! A detailed overview of all experimental procedures can be found in the CITATION. Tandem affinity purification (TAP-tag) experiments were performed on Arabidopsis cell culture cells (PSB-D) with protein G and Streptavidin-binding peptide (GS)-tagged bait proteins according to (CITATION). APMS and coIP experiments for TPLATE-GFP, TML-GFP, and TML-YFP were performed using a GFP-trap system (Chromotek and Miltenyi Biotec) on Arabidopsis seedlings expressing functional fusion proteins in the respective complemented mutant (tplate, tml-1, and tml-2) backgrounds. APMS experiments on GFP-TML, GFP-TMLΔC, and Venus-TMLΔC were performed on Arabidopsis seedlings in the wild-type (Col-0) background or on PSB-D cells. Protein sequences were aligned using MSAProbs v0.97 (CITATION) and cleaned up as described in (CITATION). ProtTest v2.4 (CITATION) was used to score different models of protein evolution and identified the LG+I+G+F model as best fit, with a substantial lead over other models. MrBayes v3.1.2 (CITATION) was used for constructing the phylogeny. The BMCMC was run for 106 generations, with two parallel runs of four chains each, sampling every 100 generations and discarding the first 2,500 samples as burn-in. Proper MCMC convergence was checked using the AWTY web program (CITATION) and the remaining 7,501 samples were used to construct the 50% majority-rule consensus phylogeny. Variable angle epifluorescence (VAEM) and spinning disc microscopy were conducted on a Nikon Ti microscope equipped with either a manual VAEM arm or a CSU-X1 spinning disc head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with a CFI Apo TIRF 100× NA1.49 oil immersion objective and an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics Technology, Tucson AZ, USA). Quantifications of fluorescence intensities were done on nonsaturated images by normalizing the maximal fluorescence intensity present in BFA bodies or cell plates to the respective PM or cytoplasmic intensity by indicating them as a ROI using the Olympus FluoViewer10-ASW 2.1 or the imageJ (Rasband, W.S. National Institute of Health) software packages. Extended Experimental Procedures Generating Entry Clones All primers used are listed in CITATION. AtEH2 (At1g21630), TWD40-1 (At3g50590) and TASH3 (At2g07360) open reading frames (ORFs) with and without stop codon were amplified from PSB-D cDNA whereas TML and CtermTML (73AA) with stop codon (At5g57460), LOLITA (At1g15370) and AtEH1 (At1g20760) coding sequences with and without stop codon were amplified from full-length cDNA clones obtained from the RIKEN institute (pda19569, pda11727 and pda17689, respectively). The ORF of TWD40-2 (At5g24710) with and without stop codon was amplified in two halves starting from two pda clones (pda20656 and pda20912) via sewing PCR. The ORF of AP2A1 (At5g22770) was cloned from a full-length cDNA clone obtained from the RIKEN institute (pda08534). All PCR products were amplified with the full-length attB1F and attB2R primers prior to cloning into pDONR221 via Gateway BP reactions (Invitrogen). TPLATE with stop codon and CHC1 (At3g08530) with and without stop codon were amplified using primers flanked with the full attB-sites, as well as TMLΔC with a stop codon which was amplified from the 35Sp::GFP-TML expression construct. The CHC1 ORF and TMLΔC ORF were cloned into pDONR221 and TPLATE in pDONR207 via Gateway BP reactions (Invitrogen). To generate the complementation construct for tml-1, the endogenous promoter of TML, including the 5′ UTR region, was amplified via PCR from genomic DNA prepared from a PSB-D cell suspension, using primers flanked with the minimal attB sites. The purified PCR product was subsequently amplified with full-length attB-specific primers and cloned into pDONRP4-P1R via a Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). Artificial microRNAs (amiR) were designed according to (CITATION) via the Web MicroRNA Designer (WMD3) and amplified from pRS300 (Addgene) using amiRNA-specific primers and the primers A and B, flanked with full-length attB sites. Purified amiRNA PCR products were cloned into pDONR221 via a Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). All entry clones were verified by sequencing. Generating Expression Clones TPLATE-GFP, CLC2-mOr and DRP1C-mOr were previously described (CITATION). The entry clone of CLC2 (At2g40060) without stop codon was used in a triple Gateway LR reaction, combining pB7m34GW (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-RPS5Ap and pDONRP2-P3R-TagRFP (CITATION) to yield pB7m34GW-RPS5Ap::CLC2-TagRFP. The RPS5A promoter (CITATION) was gateway adapted using the primers listed in CITATION. Entry clones of TML, CtermTML, TWD40-1, TWD40-2 and TASH3 with stop codon were used in a single Gateway LR reaction with pK7WGF2 (CITATION) to generate N-terminal GFP fusion proteins. Entry clones of LOLITA, AtEH1 and AtEH2 without stop codon were combined with pK7FWG2 (CITATION) to create C-terminal GFP fusion proteins. Estp::Venus::TMLΔC was constructed in a gateway LR reaction combining pDONRP4-P1R-Venus (CITATION) with pDONR221-TMLΔC and a gateway-modified pMDC7 (CITATION) destination vector containing the estradiol inducible promoter. BiFC constructs for 35Sp::ORF-tag using the N and C-terminal halves of EGFP were constructed by triple Gateway reactions using pK7m34GW or pH7m34GW (CITATION) as described in (CITATION) combined with pDONR207 and pDONR221 entry clones of TPLATE, TML and TWD40-2 without stop codon. 35Sp::tag-ORF clones were constructed by double Gateway recombination using a modified pH7m24GW destination vector with a 35S promoter incorporated in the backbone (CITATION). The N-terminal fragment of EGFP in pDONRP4P1R was combined with a pDONR221 entry clone containing TWD40-2 with stop codon. 35Sp::GS-ORF and 35Sp::ORF-GS TAP constructs were generated as described by (CITATION). Y2H vectors expressing an ORF fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) were made by a single Gateway LR reaction combining the entry clones carrying the ORF with stop codon with pDEST22 (Invitrogen). Fusion to the GAL4 DNA binding domain (DB) was established by a single Gateway LR reaction with pDEST32 (Invitrogen). For the transient pull-down assay, 35Sp::TML-3xFlag was generated via a multisite Gateway LR reaction using pK7m34GW2 (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-35Sp, pDONRP2-P3R-3xFlag (CITATION) and pDONR221-TML without stop codon. 35Sp::TPLATE-3xHA was constructed with pK7m34GW2 (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-35Sp, pDONRP2-P3R-3xHA (CITATION) and pDONR207-TPLATE without stop codon (CITATION). RPS5Ap::AP2A1-TagRFP was constructed by multi-Gateway LR cloning between pDONRP4P1R-RPS5Ap, pDONR221-AP2A1 and pDONRP2P3R-TagRFP (CITATION) in pB7m34GW (CITATION). A YFP clone was amplified with primers containing AscI and SpeI restriction sites and inserted into the pCAMBIA1390 vector (Cambia, Canberra, Australia, AF234307) resulting in the vector pCAMBIA1390:YFP. A TML genomic clone including the complete coding region and 0.9 kb upstream of the ATG start codon was amplified from genomic WT (Col-0) DNA with primers harboring BstXI and AscI restriction sites. After digestion the fragment was ligated into to pCAMBIA1390:YFP generating pCAMBIA1390-TMLp::TML-YFP (TML-YFP). The 35Sp::freeYFP construct was generated by a single Gateway LR reaction of an entry clone of YFP with pXCSG-StrepII (CITATION). The TML complementation construct for tml-1 was generated through a multisite Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen), combining pK7m34GW (CITATION) and pDONRP4-P1R-TMLp with pDONR221-TML and pDONRP2R-P3-EGFP to make TMLp::TML-EGFP. TML and TPLATE amiR’s were assembled into pK2GW7 (CITATION) or a modified pMDC7 (CITATION) beta-estradiol inducible destination vector via a single LR Gateway reaction (Invitrogen), thereby creating TML and TPLATE amiRNA silencing constructs. PSB-D Cell Suspension The PSB-D Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension cultures were transformed with 35Sp::GS-ORF, 35Sp::GFP-ORF and 35Sp::ORF-GS and selected without callus screening, grown and subcultured as described by (CITATION). Arabidopsis Lines Plants expressing GFP- or Venus-tagged fusion proteins of TML, LOLITA, AtEH1, AtEH2, TWD40-1, TWD40-2, TMLΔC and TASH3 were generated by floral dip (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected on kanamycin or hygromycin containing 1/2 strength MS medium. The RPS5Ap::AP2A1-TagRFP construct was dipped into the tplate/tplate homozygous mutant background complemented with LAT52p::TPLATE-GFP (CITATION) or into the tml-1/tml-1 homozygous mutant background complemented with TMLp::TML-GFP and transformants were selected on 1/2 strength MS medium containing 10 mg/l PPT (Duchefa, The Netherlands). The Arabidopsis line expressing BRI1p::BRI1-GFP was described elsewhere (CITATION). pMDC7 containing seedlings were induced with 5 μM estradiol either by germinating them on plate in the presence of estradiol or by treating them for 24 hr in liquid 1/2 strength MS medium containing 5 μM estradiol (Sigma Aldrich). T-DNA insertion mutants for TML (At5g57460; tml-1: GABI_088H05) and TWD40-2 (At5g24710; twd40-2-1: GABI_776E02) were obtained from the GABI-Kat collection, whereas additional mutants for TML (At5g57460; tml-2: SALK_071882), AtEH2 (At1g21630; ateh2-1: SALK_092023), TWD40-1 (At3g50590; twd40-1-1: SALK_121332) and TWD40-2 (At5g24710; twd40-2-2: SALK_121649) were ordered from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). GABI-Kat insertion mutants were selected on 1/2 MS medium containing 5.25 mg/l sulfadiazine (S6387, Sigma-Aldrich). Plants heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion in TML (tml-1; GABI_088H05) were transformed with the TMLp::TML-GFP complementation construct via floral dip (CITATION). Primary transformants (T1) were selected for the complementation construct on kanamycin containing 1/2 strength MS plates. Next, T-DNA segregation was analyzed on the progeny of primary transformants (T2 seeds) by germination on sulfadiazine containing 1/2 strength MS medium. TML T-DNA insertion lines transformed with TMLp::TML-GFP which overcame male sterility with a 2:1 segregation ratio (resistant to sensitive) were transferred to soil. Plants homozygous for the TML insertion mutation were identified by subsequent genotyping PCR and TMLp::TML-GFP localization was determined on offspring seeds. A similar approach was followed to complement the tml-2 (SALK_071882) mutant with TMLp::TML-YFP. In this case, primary transformants (T1) were selected for the complementation construct on hygromycin containing 1/2 strength MS plates supplemented with 1% sucrose. TML-YFP expression was analyzed on the progeny of hygromycin resistant primary transformants (T2 seeds) by microscopy. Plants expressing TML-YFP were subsequently genotyped to identify homozygous lines for the tml-2 insertion mutation. Seedlings expressing the inducible TML amiRNA construct were sown on 1/2 strength MS plates containing 5 μM beta-estradiol (250155-1G Sigma-Aldrich) and vernalized for 3 days prior to shifting the plates to a continuous light chamber. Seedlings were imaged 6–10 days after sowing. Genotyping PCR T-DNA Insertion Mutants Genotyping PCR was performed on genomic DNA isolated from rosette leaves. The T-DNA- and gene-specific primers used are listed in CITATION. (At5g57460; tml-1: amplicon length: 1170 bp; tml-2: amplicon length: 817bp; At1g21630; ateh2-1: amplicon length: 1161 bp; At3g50590; twd40-1-1: amplicon length 1,017 bp; At5g24710; twd40-2-1: amplicon length: 1075 bp; twd40-2-2: amplicon length 622bp). Quantitative RT-PCR RNA was extracted from seedlings using Trizol combined with the RNeasy mini kit (QIAGEN). Grounded plant material was incubated with 1 ml Trizol (TriReagent, Sigma-Aldrich) for 5 min at room temperature. Next, 200 μl chloroform (analaR Normapur, VWR) was added and mixed well. This solution was centrifuged for 15 min at 12,000 g, at 4°C. The upper phase containing RNA was transferred to a new eppendorf and incubated with 500 μl isopropanol (Sigma-Aldrich) for 10 min at room temperature. This RNA solution was applied to the RNeasy mini spin column and the kit protocol was followed from there. 1 μg of the purified RNA was amplified in a reverse transcriptase reaction using the iSCRIPT cDNA synthesis kit (Biorad). Subsequent qPCR was performed using the SYBR Green master mix (Roche) with gene-specific primers against TPLATE, TML and AP2M. ACTIN2 (At3g18780) and/or eiF-4A-1 (At3g13920) served as normalization references in CITATION. Primers are listed in CITATION. Chemical Treatments Stock solutions were prepared for BFA (50 mM in DMSO, 1,000–2,000× stock, Molecular Probes), FM4-64 (2 mM in water, 500–250× stock, Molecular Probes), beta-estradiol (20 mM in ethanol, 4,000× stock, 250155-1G Sigma-Aldrich). Roots were stained with 2-4 μM FM4-64 by incubating the seedlings in FM-containing liquid 1/2 strength MS medium for 2–10 min. BFA treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings was performed by incubating the seedlings in 50 μM BFA for 30 min or 1 hr supplemented by 2 μM FM4-64 during the last 10 min prior to imaging. Whole-Mount Arabidopsis Root Immunolocalization Seedlings were fixed for 1 hr in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS (pH 7.4) under vacuum and were subsequently subjected to automated processing using an In situ Pro liquid handling system (Intavis AG) following the immunolocalization procedure as described previously (CITATION) with the following antibody dilutions: Rabbit anti-PIN1 (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-PIN2 (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-KNOLLE (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-AP2A (1:500) (CITATION), Sheep anti-rabbit IgG (whole molecule), F(ab’)2 fragment-Cy3 (1:600) (Sigma-Aldrich; C2306). Microscopy Arabidopsis seedlings were imaged between slide and cover glass. Image acquisition was performed with a FluoView1000 inverted confocal microscope (Olympus) equipped with a water-corrected 60× objective (NA 1.2) using 488 nm laser excitation and a spectral detection bandwidth of 500–530 nm for EGFP and 559 nm laser excitation together with a spectral detection bandwidth of 570–670 nm for RFP, Cy3 and FM4-64 detection. AFCS was visualized using 635 nm laser excitation and 655–755 nm spectral detection. Images were also acquired with a Zeiss 710 inverted confocal microscope with the ZEN 2009 software package and equipped with a 63× water corrected objective (NA 1.2). GFP was visualized using 488 nm laser excitation and 500–530 nm spectral detection; FM4-64 was visualized using 561 nm laser excitation and 592–754 nm spectral detection. Variable angle epifluorescence microscopy (VAEM) was conducted on a Nikon Ti microscope equipped with a manual VAEM arm, in which a 491 nm laser line of a custom built laser setup was fed through a fiber optic into the microscope. Images were collected on an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics Technology, Tucson AZ, USA). Kymographs were made using the Kymograph2 plugin of the imageJ software (Rasband, W.S. National Institute of Health) and the life-time of the individual endocytosis events was measured from the generated kymographs (TPLATE, n = 388; AP2A1, n = 437). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) performed on heterozygous mutant pollen was done under an accelerating voltage of 15 kV using a Hitachi tabletop microscope TM-1000 (Hitachi High-Technologies Europe GmbH, Germany), equipped with a 20–10,000 times magnification. Spinning disc movies were generated using a confocal microscope equipped with a CSU-X1 spinning disc head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan) fitted to a Nikon Eclipse Ti inverted microscope, a CFI Apo TIRF 100xH NA1.49 oil immersion objective, an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics Technology, Tucson AZ, USA), and a 1.2× lens between the spinning disc and camera. GFP and YFP were excited at 491 nm and mOr, at 561 nm. These setting were used to obtain dual color movies for AP2A1-TagRFP with either TPLATE-GFP or TML-GFP and TML-YFP with either CLC2-mOr or DRP1C-mOr. The pollen germination images and movies were generated under the same conditions, but under a Plan Apo VC 20× NA0.75 objective. The 3D rendering projections of CITATIONF were taken on 10-day-old light grown seedlings on 5 μM estradiol-containing medium stained for 5 min with PI (10 μg/ml, Sigma Aldrich) in water. Roots were imaged with 561 nm excitation (10%), gain 300 and exposure time 300 ms/frame. The 3D projections were built out of 205 slices of 0.2 μm optical thickness each and spanning 41 μm total thickness. Image acquisitions were performed using Metamorph online premier, version 7.5. Kymographs were made using the Kymograph2 plugin of the imageJ software (Rasband, W.S., National Institutes of Health) and the life-time of the individual endocytosis events was measured from the generated kymographs (TML, n = 405). DIC images in CITATIONF were taken with a Leica MZ16 bino macroscope. Root meristem size was determined on induced amiR-TML roots and control (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) roots grown for 6 days on either control or estradiol-containing medium (5 μM). Roots were stained with PI (50 μg/ml, Sigma Aldrich) in water for 10 min. Medial root sections were imaged with a Zeiss510 Exciter confocal at 20× magnification and 0.6× zoom. Meristem size was determined in imageJ as the distance measured at the center of the root medial section between the QC and the first visibly elongated cell in the root. Protein Domain Searches Protein domains were identified as annotated by PUBMED (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/) or by the TAIR database (www.arabidopsis.org). We manually searched for motifs described in literature as involved in endocytosis, using the ScanProsite tool (CITATION) from the bioinformatics research portal Expasy (http://prosite.expasy.org/scanprosite). Motifs listed in CITATIONA can be found in the following references (CITATION). Finally, we applied the Eukaryotic Linear Motif (ELM) resource (CITATION) to find additional functional sites in our proteins involved in endocytic events (http://elm.eu.org/search/). Phylogenetic Analysis The plant proteins which are indicated by their reference numbers in CITATIONF represent a selection of proteins from different plant species annotated in the PLAZA software tool (CITATION) as belonging to the same gene families as the Arabidopsis proteins studied here. In addition, the following reference numbers correspond to the proteins listed in the phylogenetic tree: Arabidopsis putative AT_delta-COPI (At5g05010); human delta-COPI.1 (NP_001646.2); human delta-COPI.2 (NP_001135753.1); S. cerevisiae delta-COPI (EDN59202.1); human SGIP1 (Q9BQI5); human FCHo1 (AAH28021.1); human FCHo2 (AAH14311.1); S. cerevisiae SYP1 (P25623.3); human AP5M1 (NP_060699.3); human AP3M1 (Q9Y2T2.1); human Stonin1 (AAH69389.1); human Stonin2 (AAK57559.1); human AP4M1 (NP_004713.2); human AP1M1.1 (NP_001123996.1); human AP1M1.2 (NP_115882.1); human AP1M2 (NP_005489.2); human AP2M1 (Q96CW1); Arabidopsis AT_AP3M (At1g56590) (CITATION); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP4M (At4g24550); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP1MA (At1g10730); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP1MB (At1g60780); Arabidopsis AT_AP2M (At5g46630) (CITATION); Arabidopsis TML (At5g57460). To create the phylogenetic tree, all amino acid (AA) sequences were aligned using MSAProbs v0.97 (CITATION), using the highest possible iterative-refinement option (-ir = 1,000). The alignment was cleaned up as described in (CITATION). Briefly, all gap positions (alignment columns for which more than 33% of the sequences exhibit a gap) were removed. To avoid potential inclusion of misaligned residues in neighboring positions, additional positions to the left and right of gap positions were removed until a conserved position was encountered (a column in the alignment where the median BLOSUM62 value for all residues > 0). We used ProtTest v2.4 (CITATION) to score different models of protein evolution for constructing an AA-based phylogenetic tree. All possible models with all improvements implemented in the program were taken into account. An initial tree was obtained by Neighbor-Joining (BioNJ), and both the branch lengths and topology were optimized for each possible evolutionary model independently. The LG+I+G+F model came out as best with a substantial lead over other protein models using both –lnL and AIC selection criteria (AIC = 40841.00 and AICw = 1.0), with the second best model being LG+G+F (AIC = 40876.05 and AICw = 0.0). An AA-based phylogeny was determined using MrBayes v3.1.2 (CITATION) with the LG+I+G+F model (4 rate categories). Since the LG model is not implemented by default in MrBayes, we used a GTR model and fixed the substitution rate parameters to those specified by the LG model, while using the state frequency parameters observed in the alignment. The BMCMC was run for 106 generations, sampling every 100 generations, with two parallel runs of 4 chains each. A burn-in of 2,500 samples was used and the remaining 7,501 samples were used to construct a 50% majority-rule consensus phylogeny. The AWTY web program (CITATION) was used to check proper MCMC convergence under the given burn-in conditions. Since no undoubted outgroup sequences were available and because of uncertainty in the precise evolutionary path, we employed a midpoint root strategy (CITATION) for the phylogenetic tree depicted in CITATIONJ and CITATIONF. Identification of Homologs of TPC Complex Subunits in Other Model Species We obtained the proteomes of human (Homo sapiens), and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) from Ensembl (Release 72 - June 2013, available at http://jun2013.archive.ensembl.org/index.html) (CITATION). All TPC subunits were blasted against these proteomes using BLASTP with an E-value cutoff of 10. The best scoring hit for each TPC member against these species is presented in CITATION. Multiple lines indicate multiple high-scoring segment pairs (HSPs) found for the hit. Quantification Measurements All quantified experiments were confirmed on several independent lines. Maximum fluorescence intensities of BFA bodies were measured and compared to the plasma membrane intensities of nonsaturated images by indicating both the BFA bodies as the PM as a ROI using the Olympus FluoViewer10-ASW 2.1 or the imageJ image analysis (Rasband, W.S. National Institute of Health) software packages. We calculated the maximum intensity ratio of fluorescence inside the BFA body to the plasma membrane to normalize the fluorescence intensity on a cellular basis. For the quantification of cell plate intensities, we calculated the ratio of the maximum cell plate intensity present in a ROI covering the cell plate versus a ROI in the cytoplasm as normalization factor. The average ratio of all measurements, excluding outliers with values exceeding the average ± three times the standard deviation, are depicted in the graphs. For the FM4-64 and BRI1 internalization in CITATIONB, four experiments were performed using in total three independent amiR-TML expressing lines. The quantification was done on four amiR-TML roots (n = 116 bodies), three control roots grown on ethanol (n = 123 bodies) and five control roots grown on estradiol (n = 115 bodies). For the quantification of AP2A cell plate recruitment in CITATIOND, we used two independent inducible amiR-TML lines grown on estradiol-containing medium for the quantifications on 12 (8 +4) roots in total (n = 46 cells) and 8 roots (n = 37 cells) for the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium. Quantification of cell plate signal was chosen as it was the most straightforward method. Cell plates could be easily recognized and were more homogenously stained with the antibody than the PM. For the quantification of PIN1 and PIN2 internalization, we also compared maximum intensity in the BFA bodies versus the PM. We performed three experiments whereby two independent induced amiR-TML lines were tested against the controls and tested in total three independent induced amiR-TML lines. The graph for PIN1 in CITATIONF was made by quantifying four roots (n = 112 bodies) of the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium with 14 (6 + 8) roots (n = 207 bodies) of the estradiol-induced amiR-TML lines. The graph for PIN2 in CITATIONF was made by quantifying six roots (n = 60 bodies) of the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium with 9 (6 + 3) roots (n = 83 bodies) of the estradiol-induced amiR-TML lines. For the quantification of KNOLLE localization at the PM, we performed three experiments and compared two independent induced amiR-TML lines to the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol containing medium. In total 25 (6 + 13 + 6) induced amiR-TML roots and 17 (5 + 8 + 4) induced WT roots were used for the quantification of KN labeling at the PM. For the quantification of BFA body distribution and intensity of the constitutively silenced (35Sp::ami-TML) lines depicted in CITATIONC, we performed three independent experiments. All analyzed seedlings were primary transformants and therefore independent biological repeats. For the BFA body distribution experiment depicted in CITATIONC, 3 wild-type seedlings (n = 100 cells) and 16 independent silenced seedlings (n = 431 cells) were measured and for the intensity experiment, 16 independent silenced seedlings (n = 245 bodies) and 3 wild-type seedlings (n = 124 bodies) were imaged. For the quantification of root meristem size in CITATIONE, two independent induced amiR-TML lines were analyzed and compared to the controls on ethanol and estradiol-containing medium. The total number of meristems analyzed was between 29 and 31 for the different lines and treatments. For the quantification of gravistimulation defects in CITATIONH, two amiR lines of two independent subunits of the TPC were analyzed, one inducible amiR-TML line and one inducible amiR-TPLATE line. The number of roots analyzed was between 101 and 279 for the different lines and treatments. AFCS Uptake AFCS uptake was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, five 4-day-old seedlings were dipped in 200 μl of 20 μM AFCS dissolved in 1/2 strength MS. Seedlings were pulsed for 30 min, washed 3 times in 1/2 strength MS and chased for 20 additional min in 1/2 strength MS medium. Quantitative Analysis of Gravitropic Responses Five- (Col-0 and amiR-TPLATE) or six- (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP and amiR-TML) day-old seedlings grown vertically in light on medium supplemented with ethanol or 5 μM (BRI1-GFP and amiR-TML) and 9 μM (Col-0 and amiR-TPLATE) of 17-β-estradiol were gravistimulated by a 90° rotation. The angle of the root tips deviating from the vertical plane was measured with ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) software 24 hr after gravistimulation. Gravicurvature was quantified in two independent experiments with n = 101–279 roots analyzed for each assay. All gravitropically stimulated roots were assigned to one of the eight 45° sectors on a gravitropism diagram. The length of the bars in the diagram represents the percentage of seedlings assigned to the respective sector. Transient Expression of BiFC Constructs WT Nicotiana benthamiana plants (3–4 weeks old) were used to transiently express the various BiFC construct combinations by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transient transformation of lower epidermal leaf cells as previously described (CITATION) using a modified buffer (10 mM MgCl2 (1 M stock solution, Merck); 10 mM MES (0.5 M stock solution, Duchefa); 100 μM Acetosyringone (100 mM stock solution, Sigma-Aldrich) and addition of a P19 expressing Agrobacterium strain to boost protein expression (CITATION). All Agrobacterium strains were grown for 2 days, diluted to OD 0.5 in infiltration buffer and incubated for 2 hr at room temperature before mixing in a 1:1 ratio with other strains and injecting. After 3 to 5 days of incubation, interaction of the proteins was scored by screening lower epidermal cells for fluorescence using confocal microscopy. Tandem Affinity Purification and MS Analysis Protein complexes were isolated by a GS (CITATION) purification protocol according to (CITATION). Following TAP, the protein complexes were TCA precipitated and prepared for mass spectrometry analysis. For MS analysis by MALDI TOF/TOF, proteins were separated on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen) and visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. Gel lanes were cut in 48 slices. Proteins were processed and digested by trypsin per gel slice (CITATION). Mass spectra were obtained by a 4800 MALDI TOF/TOF Proteomics Analyzer (AB SCIEX), and MS-based protein homology identification on the TAIR genomic database was done (CITATION). Experimental background proteins were subtracted based on approximately 40 TAP experiments on wild-type cultures and cultures expressing TAP-tagged GUS, RFP and GFP mock proteins (CITATION). For MS analysis by LTQ Orbitrap Velos (Thermo, Bremen, Germany), eluted proteins were separated in a short run of 7 min on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen) and visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. A broad zone, containing all proteins per TAP elution, was cut from the protein gel, sliced into 24 gel plugs, and processed and digested with trypsin as one sample (CITATION). LC-MS/MS runs on LTQ Orbitrap Velos, and peak list generation and submission for protein-homology-based identification on the TAIR database were done as described in Supplementary Methods for the LC-MS/MS VELOS2 analysis (CITATION). A list of nonspecific background proteins was assembled by combining our previous background list (CITATION) with background proteins from control purifications on mock, GFP-GS, and GUS-GS cell culture extracts, identified with LTQ Orbitrap VELOS. To obtain the final list of interactors, this background list was subtracted from the list of identified proteins. Interaction networks were visualized using the Cytoscape software package (CITATION). Expression Analysis and Western Blotting Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen retched (20 Hz, 1 min) 5-day-old seedlings grown on vertical plates or in liquid 1/2 MS (TMLΔC) using half the volume (w/(1/2 v)) of extraction buffer (CITATION) complemented with 0.1% benzonase. Cell debris was removed by 2 rounds of centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C and the supernatant was collected. The extracts were boiled in sample buffer for 10 min at 95°C and loaded in equal amounts (30 μg) on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. SDS-PAGE separated proteins were blotted on Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore). Membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C in 3% (v/v) milk powder dissolved in 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH8, 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween20. The blots were then incubated at room temperature with the Living Colors A.v. Monoclonal GFP antibody (1/5,000) (JL-8, Clontech). Flag-Based Pull-Down Assay Protoplasts were collected from a 2 ml solution after centrifugation (1,500rpm, 5 min) and 200 μl extraction buffer was added to the pellet of protoplasts. The composition of the extraction buffer is described in (CITATION). A homogenized extract was obtained by vortexing thoroughly. To separate the protein extract from the cell debris, the solution was centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 15 min, 4°C. The protein extract was collected from the supernatant (input fraction). Next, the soluble protein extract was incubated with 25 μl ANTI-FLAG M2 affinity resin (Sigma-Aldrich, A2220) for 2 hr on a rotating wheel at 4°C. Following incubation, the resin and its bound proteins were pelleted by centrifugation (1,500 rpm, 1 min, 4°C) whereas the supernatant contained the unbound fraction. The resin was washed 3 times with 500 μl extraction buffer and the bound proteins were eluted on ice with 3 times 50 μl 200 μg/ml Flag-peptide. The eluted protein fraction was precipitated overnight with TCA (25% v/v) at 4°C as described by (CITATION). Input, unbound and eluted fractions were boiled in sample buffer for 10 min at 95°C and loaded in equal amounts on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Western blotting was performed as described above. The blots were then incubated at room temperature either with the monoclonal anti-Flag M2 antibody (1:1,000) (F3165, Sigma-Aldrich) or the HA high-affinity antibody (1:1,000) (3F10, Roche Applied Science). Antigen-antibody complexes were detected with anti-mouse or anti-rat horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/10,000) (Amersham Biosciences) using chemiluminescence (Perkin-Elmer). GFP-Based Pull-Down Assay Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen ground 6-day-old seedlings grown on vertical 1/2 MS plates using an equal volume (w/v) of extraction buffer (CITATION) which was vortexed thoroughly. Cell debris was removed at 14,000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C and the supernatant was collected as the input fraction. 2 mg protein from the input fraction was incubated with 15 μl effective, pre-equilibrated GFP-Trap_A agarose beads (Chromotek) for 1 hr, gently rotating at 4°C. The unbound fraction was removed from the beads after a brief centrifugation at 1,500 rpm for 1 min at 4°C. Beads were washed twice with 500 μl homogenization buffer. The bound protein fraction was boiled from the beads with sample buffer at 95°C for 10 min and loaded onto an 8% SDS-PAGE protein gel, together with 10 μg from the input and unbound fraction. Each gel was loaded in duplicate in order to detect the GFP-tagged protein and endogenous AP2A on different blots. Western blotting was performed as described above. The blots were incubated at room temperature either with the Living Colors A.v. Monoclonal GFP antibody (1/5,000) (JL-8, Clontech) or an antibody directed against AP2A (1/2,000) (CITATION). Antigen-antibody complexes were detected with anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/10,000) (Amersham Biosciences) using chemiluminescence (Perkin-Elmer). GFP-Based Pull-Down and LC-MS/MS Analysis Sterilized seeds (tplate/tplate + LAT52p::TPLATE-GFP) (CITATION) were germinated in liquid medium (2.15 g/l Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture (MS), 10 g/l sucrose, 0.5 g/l MES, 0. 1 g/l myo-inositol, 20 mg/l hygromycin) in shake flasks under a short day regime (8 hr light/16 hr dark). After 6 days, seedlings were harvested, frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80°C. For the APMS experiments with the estradiol-inducible VENUS-TMLΔC in CITATIOND, seedlings were germinated in liquid, grown for 6 days without induction and induced for 24 hr with 5 μM estradiol before harvesting. Total protein extract preparation was performed as before (CITATION), with some minor adaptations. Briefly, 15 g of seedlings were grinded in liquid N2 in a blender and 30 ml of extraction buffer complemented with 0.1% benzonase was added. The extract was incubated for 30 min at 4°C. After two centrifugation steps of 20 min at 36,900 g, the extract was filtered through a double layer of Miracloth. Protein concentration was determined via the Bradford protein assay (BIORAD). 100 mg protein was incubated with 30 μl effective, pre-equilibrated GFP-Trap_A agarose beads (Chromotek) for 1 hr, gently rotating at 4°C. The unbound fraction was removed from the beads after a centrifugation at 450 g for 5 min at 4°C. Beads were transferred to a Mobicol column and washed with 6 ml wash buffer. The bound fraction was eluted with 40 μl 1xNuPAGE (Invitrogen) sample buffer at 70°C with regular mixing. Eluted proteins were precipitated by adding 9 volumes of ice-cold EtOH and overnight incubation at −70°C. Precipitated proteins were centrifuged at 13,000 g for 20 min at 4°C. EtOH was removed and the pellet air-dried. The pellet was dissolved in 30 μl 1× NuPAGE Sample Buffer, heated for 10 min at 70°C and separated in a short run of 7 min on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen). Proteins were visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. A broad zone, containing all eluted proteins, was cut from the protein gel, sliced into 24 gel plugs, and processed and digested with trypsin as one sample (CITATION). LC-MS/MS runs on LTQ Orbitrap Velos, and peak list generation and submission for protein homology-based identification on the TAIR database were done as described in Supplementary Methods for the LC-MS/MS VELOS2 analysis (CITATION). A list of nonspecific background proteins was assembled by combining background proteins from control GFP pull downs on mock, GFP and GUS-GFP cell culture and seedlings extracts, with our previous background list (CITATION) and background proteins from control GS purifications on mock, GFP-GS, and GUS-GS cell culture extracts, identified with LTQ Orbitrap VELOS. To obtain the final list of interactors, this background list was subtracted from the list of identified proteins. TMLp::TML-YFP GFP Pull-Down, LC-MS/MS Analysis, Protein Identification and Western Blotting Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen ground 14-day-old seedlings grown on vertical 1/2 MS+1%Sucrose plates using a double volume (w/v) of extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8; 10 mM MgCl2; 75 mM NaCl; 1 mM DTT; 0.1% Tween; Protease inhibitor cocktail tablet; Roche). The soluble protein fraction was obtained by a two-step centrifugation at 35,000 g for 20 min and at 14,000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C. 100 μg protein from the soluble fraction was loaded onto a 10% SDS-PAGE protein gel to detect the YFP-tagged protein. SDS-PAGE separated proteins were blotted on Hybond ECL nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare) at 70 V, 4°C, 3 hr. Membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C in 5% (v/v) milk powder dissolved in 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH8, 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween20. The blots were then incubated at room temperature with the monoclonal GFP antibody horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/5,000; 2 hr; Abcam) and further detected using chemiluminescence (Thermo Scientific). After confirming the presence of YFP-tagged protein, 2 mg of protein from the soluble fraction were mixed with 50 μl anti-GFP paramagnetic MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec) for 30 min on ice. The GFP-MicroBead-bound target protein was magnetically precipitated on columns according to the manufacturer’s instructions (μMACs; Miltenyi Biotec). The immunoprecipitated proteins eluted from the column were loaded onto a 10% SDS-PAGE protein gel. After gel processing, injections of digested protein were analyzed by LC-MS/MS using nano-flow HPLC (Proxeon Biosystems) and an Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Thermo Scientific) as mass analyzer. Peptides were eluted from a 75 μm analytical column (Reprosil C18, Dr. Maisch GmbH) on a linear gradient, running from 5% to 80% acetonitrile in 36 min at a flow rate of 250 nl/min. Up to five data-dependent MS/MS spectra were acquired in the linear ion trap for each FTMS full-scan spectrum acquired at 60,000 full-width half-maximum resolution settings with an overall cycle time of approximately 1 s. Raw file peak extraction, protein identification and quantitation of peptides was done with MaxQuant (version 1.2.2.5) using a protein sequence database of Arabidopsis thaliana (TAIR10, 35386 entries, www.arabidopsis.org). For protein identification, carbamidomethylation and N-terminal protein acetylation were used as fixed modifications and methionine oxidation as a variable modification. Standard settings in MaxQuant involving peptide false-discovery rate of 0.01, minimum peptide length of six amino acids and enabled retention time correlation, with a time window of two minutes were used. Mass accuracy was set to 6 ppm for full scans and 0.5 Da for MS/MS scans. Protein intensities were calculated using the program cRacker (CITATION). Principal steps included: (1) All peptide intensities were expressed as fraction of total ion intensity sum. To compensate effects on relative normalization of low number of detected peptides per sample, intensities were proportionally corrected to reciprocal number of identified peptides in each sample. (2) The normalized peptide intensities from all samples obtained from one gel line were summed up to cumulated protein intensities. (3) The protein intensities were normalized on the corresponding YFP protein intensity from each gel line according to the described method “internal reference protein normalization” (CITATION). Differences in log2 transformed protein abundance distributions between TML-YFP and control were tested using Student's t test (alpha = 0.05). The endogenous CLC2 protein was confirmed to immunoprecipitate with TML-YFP by western blotting, following the procedure described above. In this case, the membrane was incubated with a polyclonal antibody against CLC2 (1:1,000; 2 hr) (CITATION) which was detected by the secondary antibody anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/5,000; 1.5 hr). The flow through (unbound fraction) and washing fractions were included as controls. The APMS and anti-CLC2 immunoblotting was performed in three biological replicates of both TML-YFP and freeYFP samples. Generating PSB-D Protoplasts Protoplasts were made from 5-day-old PSB-D Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension. Cells from a 25 ml culture were collected after centrifugation (1,500 rpm, 5 min) and incubated with 25 ml filter-sterilized enzyme solution (1.5% cellulase (R10, Yakult Pharmaceutical Industry co., Ltd.), 0.3% macerozyme (R10, Yakult Pharmaceutical Industry Co., Ltd.) in GM medium (3.052 g/l Gamborg B5 Vitamins (Duchefa Direct), 0.34 M Glucose, 0.34 M Mannitol, pH 5.5) in a 50 ml falcon on a rotating wheel, overnight at room temperature. Note that the incubation time should never exceed 14h. Next, the protoplasts were collected after centrifugation (1,000 rpm for 5 min) and resuspended in 25 ml filter-sterilized GM medium. Following centrifugation (1,000 rpm, 5 min), the GM medium was removed and the protoplast pellet gently resuspended in 2.5 ml filter-sterilized sucrose medium (3.052 g/l Gamborg B5 Vitamins (Duchefa Direct), 0.28 M Sucrose, pH 5.5). After centrifugation (800 rpm, 5 min) the floating protoplasts were collected and brought to a concentration of 8 million cells per ml in sucrose medium from which 200 μl was transiently (co-) transfected with TML-3xFlag and TPLATE-3xHA fusion proteins under transcriptional control of the constitutive Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Twenty micrograms of the desired plasmid(s) in a total volume of 80 μl, adjusted with sucrose medium, was added to the protoplasts and 600 μl filter-sterilized PEG solution (20 g/50 ml PEG3350, 3.64 g/50 ml Mannitol, 1.18 g/50 ml Ca(NO3)2.4H2O, pH 6.0) was immediately added afterward. This mixture was incubated for 30 min at room temperature. After incubation, 2 ml Ca(NO3)2.4H2O was added and the solution was mixed by inversion. This step was repeated once before the transfected cells were collected by centrifugation (800 rpm, 7 min) and resuspended in 2 ml GM medium containing 5% NAA. The protoplasts were transferred to a 6-well plate and incubated overnight, in the dark, at room temperature. Yeast-Two-Hybrid Assay pDEST22 and pDEST32 expression vectors were transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae PJ694 strain, mating type a and α respectively, via heat shock. Three single transformants were selected to perform the mating and yeasts containing both pDEST22 and pDEST32 were selected in liquid medium without Leucine (Leu) and Tryptophane (Trp) for 2 days at 30°C. All cultures were diluted to the same density (OD 0.2) and spotted onto SD agar plates without Leu and Trp, as a positive control for the presence of both constructs, and SD agar plates without Leu, Trp and His with the histidine biosynthesis inhibitor 3-aminotriazole (3AT) in concentrations ranging from 0 to 50 mM, in order to check auto-activation. Interaction was estimated after 2 days incubation at 30°C, based on the growth of the yeast cells. Additional auto-activation controls included the mating of single transformants with yeasts containing the empty pDEST22 or pDEST32 vector. Blue Native/SDS PAGE Total protein extracts from 1 g harvested Arabidopsis PSB-D suspension cells expressing 35Sp::GS-TPLATE or 35Sp::GS-TML were prepared according to the NativePAGETM Novex Bis-Tris gels electrophoresis protocol by Invitrogen and separated under native conditions over a 3%–12% NativePAGETM Novex Bis-Tris gel (Invitrogen). Lanes were subsequently cut out and incubated with denaturing buffer (50 mM Tris pH 6.8, 66 mM Na2CO3, 10% (w/v) glycerol, 2% (w/v) SDS, 2% β-mercaptoethanol) for 1 hr under gentle agitation. Denatured first dimension lanes were placed onto the stacking of a 12% SDS-PAGE gel and the proteins were separated in the second dimension using the Mini-PROTEAN II system (Bio-Rad) for 70 min at 180V. Western blotting was performed as mentioned above and the blots were developed using the Peroxidase Anti-Peroxidase (PAP) antibody (1:2,500) (P1291, Sigma-Aldrich). Sedimentation Velocity Analysis Total protein extracts from liquid-grown transgenic 6-day-old seedlings or PSB-D suspension-cultured cells were prepared as described (CITATION). Briefly, seedlings or PSB-D cells were frozen in liquid nitrogen, lysed by homogenization in the presence of extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCL pH7.5, 15 mM MgCL2, 5 mM EGTA, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% v/v NP-40, 5.0% v/v Glycerol, 15 mM p-nitrophenylphosphate, 60 mM β-Glycerophosphate, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, 1.0 mMNaF, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 5 μg/ml pepstatin A, 1 μg/ml chymostatin, 1 mM p-Aminobenzamidine, 1 mM ε-Aminocaproic acid, 5 μg/ml aprotinin, 1 μg/ml leupeptin, 10 μg/ml E64) and the homogenate was subjected to centrifugation at 37,000 g for 20 min at 4°C. The 37,000 g supernatant was then centrifuged at 174,000 g for 45 min at 4°C. Protein concentrations of the lysates were determined using Pierce 660 nm Protein Assay reagent (cat.# 22660, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) and bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a standard. 500 μg of total protein extract was fractionated on a 5.0 ml continuous 10%–35% (v/v) glycerol gradient in extraction buffer by centrifugation at 115,000 g in a SW50.1 rotor (Beckman) for 16.5 hr at 4°C. Fractions were collected from the top and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. In parallel, gradients were centrifuged containing globular protein standards with known sedimentation coefficients (Sw 20°C): ovalbumin (3.66S), BSA (4.41S), yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (7.61S), β-amylase (8.9S), catalase (11.3S), apoferritin (17.7S) and thyroglobulin (19.4S) and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie staining. Immunoblots were probed with mouse anti-GFP (GFP-TML or VENUS-TMLΔC) 1:5,000 in TBS-0.1% v/v Tween20 +4% w/v milk for 1 hr after blocking in TBST +4% milk for 1 hr. PAP antibodies anti-mouse HRP was incubated with GFP blots for 1 hr in TBS-0.1% v/v Tween20 + 4% w/v milk, detected using Lumi-Light Plus (Roche) and visualized using an ImageQuant LAS4010 digital imaging system (GE Healthcare Life Science, Piscataway, NJ). All primers used are listed in CITATION. AtEH2 (At1g21630), TWD40-1 (At3g50590) and TASH3 (At2g07360) open reading frames (ORFs) with and without stop codon were amplified from PSB-D cDNA whereas TML and CtermTML (73AA) with stop codon (At5g57460), LOLITA (At1g15370) and AtEH1 (At1g20760) coding sequences with and without stop codon were amplified from full-length cDNA clones obtained from the RIKEN institute (pda19569, pda11727 and pda17689, respectively). The ORF of TWD40-2 (At5g24710) with and without stop codon was amplified in two halves starting from two pda clones (pda20656 and pda20912) via sewing PCR. The ORF of AP2A1 (At5g22770) was cloned from a full-length cDNA clone obtained from the RIKEN institute (pda08534). All PCR products were amplified with the full-length attB1F and attB2R primers prior to cloning into pDONR221 via Gateway BP reactions (Invitrogen). TPLATE with stop codon and CHC1 (At3g08530) with and without stop codon were amplified using primers flanked with the full attB-sites, as well as TMLΔC with a stop codon which was amplified from the 35Sp::GFP-TML expression construct. The CHC1 ORF and TMLΔC ORF were cloned into pDONR221 and TPLATE in pDONR207 via Gateway BP reactions (Invitrogen). To generate the complementation construct for tml-1, the endogenous promoter of TML, including the 5′ UTR region, was amplified via PCR from genomic DNA prepared from a PSB-D cell suspension, using primers flanked with the minimal attB sites. The purified PCR product was subsequently amplified with full-length attB-specific primers and cloned into pDONRP4-P1R via a Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). Artificial microRNAs (amiR) were designed according to (CITATION) via the Web MicroRNA Designer (WMD3) and amplified from pRS300 (Addgene) using amiRNA-specific primers and the primers A and B, flanked with full-length attB sites. Purified amiRNA PCR products were cloned into pDONR221 via a Gateway BP reaction (Invitrogen). All entry clones were verified by sequencing. TPLATE-GFP, CLC2-mOr and DRP1C-mOr were previously described (CITATION). The entry clone of CLC2 (At2g40060) without stop codon was used in a triple Gateway LR reaction, combining pB7m34GW (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-RPS5Ap and pDONRP2-P3R-TagRFP (CITATION) to yield pB7m34GW-RPS5Ap::CLC2-TagRFP. The RPS5A promoter (CITATION) was gateway adapted using the primers listed in CITATION. Entry clones of TML, CtermTML, TWD40-1, TWD40-2 and TASH3 with stop codon were used in a single Gateway LR reaction with pK7WGF2 (CITATION) to generate N-terminal GFP fusion proteins. Entry clones of LOLITA, AtEH1 and AtEH2 without stop codon were combined with pK7FWG2 (CITATION) to create C-terminal GFP fusion proteins. Estp::Venus::TMLΔC was constructed in a gateway LR reaction combining pDONRP4-P1R-Venus (CITATION) with pDONR221-TMLΔC and a gateway-modified pMDC7 (CITATION) destination vector containing the estradiol inducible promoter. BiFC constructs for 35Sp::ORF-tag using the N and C-terminal halves of EGFP were constructed by triple Gateway reactions using pK7m34GW or pH7m34GW (CITATION) as described in (CITATION) combined with pDONR207 and pDONR221 entry clones of TPLATE, TML and TWD40-2 without stop codon. 35Sp::tag-ORF clones were constructed by double Gateway recombination using a modified pH7m24GW destination vector with a 35S promoter incorporated in the backbone (CITATION). The N-terminal fragment of EGFP in pDONRP4P1R was combined with a pDONR221 entry clone containing TWD40-2 with stop codon. 35Sp::GS-ORF and 35Sp::ORF-GS TAP constructs were generated as described by (CITATION). Y2H vectors expressing an ORF fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) were made by a single Gateway LR reaction combining the entry clones carrying the ORF with stop codon with pDEST22 (Invitrogen). Fusion to the GAL4 DNA binding domain (DB) was established by a single Gateway LR reaction with pDEST32 (Invitrogen). For the transient pull-down assay, 35Sp::TML-3xFlag was generated via a multisite Gateway LR reaction using pK7m34GW2 (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-35Sp, pDONRP2-P3R-3xFlag (CITATION) and pDONR221-TML without stop codon. 35Sp::TPLATE-3xHA was constructed with pK7m34GW2 (CITATION), pDONRP4-P1R-35Sp, pDONRP2-P3R-3xHA (CITATION) and pDONR207-TPLATE without stop codon (CITATION). RPS5Ap::AP2A1-TagRFP was constructed by multi-Gateway LR cloning between pDONRP4P1R-RPS5Ap, pDONR221-AP2A1 and pDONRP2P3R-TagRFP (CITATION) in pB7m34GW (CITATION). A YFP clone was amplified with primers containing AscI and SpeI restriction sites and inserted into the pCAMBIA1390 vector (Cambia, Canberra, Australia, AF234307) resulting in the vector pCAMBIA1390:YFP. A TML genomic clone including the complete coding region and 0.9 kb upstream of the ATG start codon was amplified from genomic WT (Col-0) DNA with primers harboring BstXI and AscI restriction sites. After digestion the fragment was ligated into to pCAMBIA1390:YFP generating pCAMBIA1390-TMLp::TML-YFP (TML-YFP). The 35Sp::freeYFP construct was generated by a single Gateway LR reaction of an entry clone of YFP with pXCSG-StrepII (CITATION). The TML complementation construct for tml-1 was generated through a multisite Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen), combining pK7m34GW (CITATION) and pDONRP4-P1R-TMLp with pDONR221-TML and pDONRP2R-P3-EGFP to make TMLp::TML-EGFP. TML and TPLATE amiR’s were assembled into pK2GW7 (CITATION) or a modified pMDC7 (CITATION) beta-estradiol inducible destination vector via a single LR Gateway reaction (Invitrogen), thereby creating TML and TPLATE amiRNA silencing constructs. The PSB-D Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension cultures were transformed with 35Sp::GS-ORF, 35Sp::GFP-ORF and 35Sp::ORF-GS and selected without callus screening, grown and subcultured as described by (CITATION). Plants expressing GFP- or Venus-tagged fusion proteins of TML, LOLITA, AtEH1, AtEH2, TWD40-1, TWD40-2, TMLΔC and TASH3 were generated by floral dip (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected on kanamycin or hygromycin containing 1/2 strength MS medium. The RPS5Ap::AP2A1-TagRFP construct was dipped into the tplate/tplate homozygous mutant background complemented with LAT52p::TPLATE-GFP (CITATION) or into the tml-1/tml-1 homozygous mutant background complemented with TMLp::TML-GFP and transformants were selected on 1/2 strength MS medium containing 10 mg/l PPT (Duchefa, The Netherlands). The Arabidopsis line expressing BRI1p::BRI1-GFP was described elsewhere (CITATION). pMDC7 containing seedlings were induced with 5 μM estradiol either by germinating them on plate in the presence of estradiol or by treating them for 24 hr in liquid 1/2 strength MS medium containing 5 μM estradiol (Sigma Aldrich). T-DNA insertion mutants for TML (At5g57460; tml-1: GABI_088H05) and TWD40-2 (At5g24710; twd40-2-1: GABI_776E02) were obtained from the GABI-Kat collection, whereas additional mutants for TML (At5g57460; tml-2: SALK_071882), AtEH2 (At1g21630; ateh2-1: SALK_092023), TWD40-1 (At3g50590; twd40-1-1: SALK_121332) and TWD40-2 (At5g24710; twd40-2-2: SALK_121649) were ordered from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). GABI-Kat insertion mutants were selected on 1/2 MS medium containing 5.25 mg/l sulfadiazine (S6387, Sigma-Aldrich). Plants heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion in TML (tml-1; GABI_088H05) were transformed with the TMLp::TML-GFP complementation construct via floral dip (CITATION). Primary transformants (T1) were selected for the complementation construct on kanamycin containing 1/2 strength MS plates. Next, T-DNA segregation was analyzed on the progeny of primary transformants (T2 seeds) by germination on sulfadiazine containing 1/2 strength MS medium. TML T-DNA insertion lines transformed with TMLp::TML-GFP which overcame male sterility with a 2:1 segregation ratio (resistant to sensitive) were transferred to soil. Plants homozygous for the TML insertion mutation were identified by subsequent genotyping PCR and TMLp::TML-GFP localization was determined on offspring seeds. A similar approach was followed to complement the tml-2 (SALK_071882) mutant with TMLp::TML-YFP. In this case, primary transformants (T1) were selected for the complementation construct on hygromycin containing 1/2 strength MS plates supplemented with 1% sucrose. TML-YFP expression was analyzed on the progeny of hygromycin resistant primary transformants (T2 seeds) by microscopy. Plants expressing TML-YFP were subsequently genotyped to identify homozygous lines for the tml-2 insertion mutation. Seedlings expressing the inducible TML amiRNA construct were sown on 1/2 strength MS plates containing 5 μM beta-estradiol (250155-1G Sigma-Aldrich) and vernalized for 3 days prior to shifting the plates to a continuous light chamber. Seedlings were imaged 6–10 days after sowing. Genotyping PCR was performed on genomic DNA isolated from rosette leaves. The T-DNA- and gene-specific primers used are listed in CITATION. (At5g57460; tml-1: amplicon length: 1170 bp; tml-2: amplicon length: 817bp; At1g21630; ateh2-1: amplicon length: 1161 bp; At3g50590; twd40-1-1: amplicon length 1,017 bp; At5g24710; twd40-2-1: amplicon length: 1075 bp; twd40-2-2: amplicon length 622bp). RNA was extracted from seedlings using Trizol combined with the RNeasy mini kit (QIAGEN). Grounded plant material was incubated with 1 ml Trizol (TriReagent, Sigma-Aldrich) for 5 min at room temperature. Next, 200 μl chloroform (analaR Normapur, VWR) was added and mixed well. This solution was centrifuged for 15 min at 12,000 g, at 4°C. The upper phase containing RNA was transferred to a new eppendorf and incubated with 500 μl isopropanol (Sigma-Aldrich) for 10 min at room temperature. This RNA solution was applied to the RNeasy mini spin column and the kit protocol was followed from there. 1 μg of the purified RNA was amplified in a reverse transcriptase reaction using the iSCRIPT cDNA synthesis kit (Biorad). Subsequent qPCR was performed using the SYBR Green master mix (Roche) with gene-specific primers against TPLATE, TML and AP2M. ACTIN2 (At3g18780) and/or eiF-4A-1 (At3g13920) served as normalization references in CITATION. Primers are listed in CITATION. Stock solutions were prepared for BFA (50 mM in DMSO, 1,000–2,000× stock, Molecular Probes), FM4-64 (2 mM in water, 500–250× stock, Molecular Probes), beta-estradiol (20 mM in ethanol, 4,000× stock, 250155-1G Sigma-Aldrich). Roots were stained with 2-4 μM FM4-64 by incubating the seedlings in FM-containing liquid 1/2 strength MS medium for 2–10 min. BFA treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings was performed by incubating the seedlings in 50 μM BFA for 30 min or 1 hr supplemented by 2 μM FM4-64 during the last 10 min prior to imaging. Seedlings were fixed for 1 hr in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS (pH 7.4) under vacuum and were subsequently subjected to automated processing using an In situ Pro liquid handling system (Intavis AG) following the immunolocalization procedure as described previously (CITATION) with the following antibody dilutions: Rabbit anti-PIN1 (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-PIN2 (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-KNOLLE (1:1,000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-AP2A (1:500) (CITATION), Sheep anti-rabbit IgG (whole molecule), F(ab’)2 fragment-Cy3 (1:600) (Sigma-Aldrich; C2306). Arabidopsis seedlings were imaged between slide and cover glass. Image acquisition was performed with a FluoView1000 inverted confocal microscope (Olympus) equipped with a water-corrected 60× objective (NA 1.2) using 488 nm laser excitation and a spectral detection bandwidth of 500–530 nm for EGFP and 559 nm laser excitation together with a spectral detection bandwidth of 570–670 nm for RFP, Cy3 and FM4-64 detection. AFCS was visualized using 635 nm laser excitation and 655–755 nm spectral detection. Images were also acquired with a Zeiss 710 inverted confocal microscope with the ZEN 2009 software package and equipped with a 63× water corrected objective (NA 1.2). GFP was visualized using 488 nm laser excitation and 500–530 nm spectral detection; FM4-64 was visualized using 561 nm laser excitation and 592–754 nm spectral detection. Variable angle epifluorescence microscopy (VAEM) was conducted on a Nikon Ti microscope equipped with a manual VAEM arm, in which a 491 nm laser line of a custom built laser setup was fed through a fiber optic into the microscope. Images were collected on an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics Technology, Tucson AZ, USA). Kymographs were made using the Kymograph2 plugin of the imageJ software (Rasband, W.S. National Institute of Health) and the life-time of the individual endocytosis events was measured from the generated kymographs (TPLATE, n = 388; AP2A1, n = 437). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) performed on heterozygous mutant pollen was done under an accelerating voltage of 15 kV using a Hitachi tabletop microscope TM-1000 (Hitachi High-Technologies Europe GmbH, Germany), equipped with a 20–10,000 times magnification. Spinning disc movies were generated using a confocal microscope equipped with a CSU-X1 spinning disc head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan) fitted to a Nikon Eclipse Ti inverted microscope, a CFI Apo TIRF 100xH NA1.49 oil immersion objective, an Evolve EMCCD camera (Photometrics Technology, Tucson AZ, USA), and a 1.2× lens between the spinning disc and camera. GFP and YFP were excited at 491 nm and mOr, at 561 nm. These setting were used to obtain dual color movies for AP2A1-TagRFP with either TPLATE-GFP or TML-GFP and TML-YFP with either CLC2-mOr or DRP1C-mOr. The pollen germination images and movies were generated under the same conditions, but under a Plan Apo VC 20× NA0.75 objective. The 3D rendering projections of CITATIONF were taken on 10-day-old light grown seedlings on 5 μM estradiol-containing medium stained for 5 min with PI (10 μg/ml, Sigma Aldrich) in water. Roots were imaged with 561 nm excitation (10%), gain 300 and exposure time 300 ms/frame. The 3D projections were built out of 205 slices of 0.2 μm optical thickness each and spanning 41 μm total thickness. Image acquisitions were performed using Metamorph online premier, version 7.5. Kymographs were made using the Kymograph2 plugin of the imageJ software (Rasband, W.S., National Institutes of Health) and the life-time of the individual endocytosis events was measured from the generated kymographs (TML, n = 405). DIC images in CITATIONF were taken with a Leica MZ16 bino macroscope. Root meristem size was determined on induced amiR-TML roots and control (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) roots grown for 6 days on either control or estradiol-containing medium (5 μM). Roots were stained with PI (50 μg/ml, Sigma Aldrich) in water for 10 min. Medial root sections were imaged with a Zeiss510 Exciter confocal at 20× magnification and 0.6× zoom. Meristem size was determined in imageJ as the distance measured at the center of the root medial section between the QC and the first visibly elongated cell in the root. Protein domains were identified as annotated by PUBMED (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/) or by the TAIR database (www.arabidopsis.org). We manually searched for motifs described in literature as involved in endocytosis, using the ScanProsite tool (CITATION) from the bioinformatics research portal Expasy (http://prosite.expasy.org/scanprosite). Motifs listed in CITATIONA can be found in the following references (CITATION). Finally, we applied the Eukaryotic Linear Motif (ELM) resource (CITATION) to find additional functional sites in our proteins involved in endocytic events (http://elm.eu.org/search/). The plant proteins which are indicated by their reference numbers in CITATIONF represent a selection of proteins from different plant species annotated in the PLAZA software tool (CITATION) as belonging to the same gene families as the Arabidopsis proteins studied here. In addition, the following reference numbers correspond to the proteins listed in the phylogenetic tree: Arabidopsis putative AT_delta-COPI (At5g05010); human delta-COPI.1 (NP_001646.2); human delta-COPI.2 (NP_001135753.1); S. cerevisiae delta-COPI (EDN59202.1); human SGIP1 (Q9BQI5); human FCHo1 (AAH28021.1); human FCHo2 (AAH14311.1); S. cerevisiae SYP1 (P25623.3); human AP5M1 (NP_060699.3); human AP3M1 (Q9Y2T2.1); human Stonin1 (AAH69389.1); human Stonin2 (AAK57559.1); human AP4M1 (NP_004713.2); human AP1M1.1 (NP_001123996.1); human AP1M1.2 (NP_115882.1); human AP1M2 (NP_005489.2); human AP2M1 (Q96CW1); Arabidopsis AT_AP3M (At1g56590) (CITATION); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP4M (At4g24550); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP1MA (At1g10730); putative Arabidopsis AT_AP1MB (At1g60780); Arabidopsis AT_AP2M (At5g46630) (CITATION); Arabidopsis TML (At5g57460). To create the phylogenetic tree, all amino acid (AA) sequences were aligned using MSAProbs v0.97 (CITATION), using the highest possible iterative-refinement option (-ir = 1,000). The alignment was cleaned up as described in (CITATION). Briefly, all gap positions (alignment columns for which more than 33% of the sequences exhibit a gap) were removed. To avoid potential inclusion of misaligned residues in neighboring positions, additional positions to the left and right of gap positions were removed until a conserved position was encountered (a column in the alignment where the median BLOSUM62 value for all residues > 0). We used ProtTest v2.4 (CITATION) to score different models of protein evolution for constructing an AA-based phylogenetic tree. All possible models with all improvements implemented in the program were taken into account. An initial tree was obtained by Neighbor-Joining (BioNJ), and both the branch lengths and topology were optimized for each possible evolutionary model independently. The LG+I+G+F model came out as best with a substantial lead over other protein models using both –lnL and AIC selection criteria (AIC = 40841.00 and AICw = 1.0), with the second best model being LG+G+F (AIC = 40876.05 and AICw = 0.0). An AA-based phylogeny was determined using MrBayes v3.1.2 (CITATION) with the LG+I+G+F model (4 rate categories). Since the LG model is not implemented by default in MrBayes, we used a GTR model and fixed the substitution rate parameters to those specified by the LG model, while using the state frequency parameters observed in the alignment. The BMCMC was run for 106 generations, sampling every 100 generations, with two parallel runs of 4 chains each. A burn-in of 2,500 samples was used and the remaining 7,501 samples were used to construct a 50% majority-rule consensus phylogeny. The AWTY web program (CITATION) was used to check proper MCMC convergence under the given burn-in conditions. Since no undoubted outgroup sequences were available and because of uncertainty in the precise evolutionary path, we employed a midpoint root strategy (CITATION) for the phylogenetic tree depicted in CITATIONJ and CITATIONF. We obtained the proteomes of human (Homo sapiens), and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) from Ensembl (Release 72 - June 2013, available at http://jun2013.archive.ensembl.org/index.html) (CITATION). All TPC subunits were blasted against these proteomes using BLASTP with an E-value cutoff of 10. The best scoring hit for each TPC member against these species is presented in CITATION. Multiple lines indicate multiple high-scoring segment pairs (HSPs) found for the hit. All quantified experiments were confirmed on several independent lines. Maximum fluorescence intensities of BFA bodies were measured and compared to the plasma membrane intensities of nonsaturated images by indicating both the BFA bodies as the PM as a ROI using the Olympus FluoViewer10-ASW 2.1 or the imageJ image analysis (Rasband, W.S. National Institute of Health) software packages. We calculated the maximum intensity ratio of fluorescence inside the BFA body to the plasma membrane to normalize the fluorescence intensity on a cellular basis. For the quantification of cell plate intensities, we calculated the ratio of the maximum cell plate intensity present in a ROI covering the cell plate versus a ROI in the cytoplasm as normalization factor. The average ratio of all measurements, excluding outliers with values exceeding the average ± three times the standard deviation, are depicted in the graphs. For the FM4-64 and BRI1 internalization in CITATIONB, four experiments were performed using in total three independent amiR-TML expressing lines. The quantification was done on four amiR-TML roots (n = 116 bodies), three control roots grown on ethanol (n = 123 bodies) and five control roots grown on estradiol (n = 115 bodies). For the quantification of AP2A cell plate recruitment in CITATIOND, we used two independent inducible amiR-TML lines grown on estradiol-containing medium for the quantifications on 12 (8 +4) roots in total (n = 46 cells) and 8 roots (n = 37 cells) for the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium. Quantification of cell plate signal was chosen as it was the most straightforward method. Cell plates could be easily recognized and were more homogenously stained with the antibody than the PM. For the quantification of PIN1 and PIN2 internalization, we also compared maximum intensity in the BFA bodies versus the PM. We performed three experiments whereby two independent induced amiR-TML lines were tested against the controls and tested in total three independent induced amiR-TML lines. The graph for PIN1 in CITATIONF was made by quantifying four roots (n = 112 bodies) of the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium with 14 (6 + 8) roots (n = 207 bodies) of the estradiol-induced amiR-TML lines. The graph for PIN2 in CITATIONF was made by quantifying six roots (n = 60 bodies) of the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol-containing medium with 9 (6 + 3) roots (n = 83 bodies) of the estradiol-induced amiR-TML lines. For the quantification of KNOLLE localization at the PM, we performed three experiments and compared two independent induced amiR-TML lines to the control line (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP) grown on estradiol containing medium. In total 25 (6 + 13 + 6) induced amiR-TML roots and 17 (5 + 8 + 4) induced WT roots were used for the quantification of KN labeling at the PM. For the quantification of BFA body distribution and intensity of the constitutively silenced (35Sp::ami-TML) lines depicted in CITATIONC, we performed three independent experiments. All analyzed seedlings were primary transformants and therefore independent biological repeats. For the BFA body distribution experiment depicted in CITATIONC, 3 wild-type seedlings (n = 100 cells) and 16 independent silenced seedlings (n = 431 cells) were measured and for the intensity experiment, 16 independent silenced seedlings (n = 245 bodies) and 3 wild-type seedlings (n = 124 bodies) were imaged. For the quantification of root meristem size in CITATIONE, two independent induced amiR-TML lines were analyzed and compared to the controls on ethanol and estradiol-containing medium. The total number of meristems analyzed was between 29 and 31 for the different lines and treatments. For the quantification of gravistimulation defects in CITATIONH, two amiR lines of two independent subunits of the TPC were analyzed, one inducible amiR-TML line and one inducible amiR-TPLATE line. The number of roots analyzed was between 101 and 279 for the different lines and treatments. AFCS uptake was performed as described previously (CITATION). In brief, five 4-day-old seedlings were dipped in 200 μl of 20 μM AFCS dissolved in 1/2 strength MS. Seedlings were pulsed for 30 min, washed 3 times in 1/2 strength MS and chased for 20 additional min in 1/2 strength MS medium. Five- (Col-0 and amiR-TPLATE) or six- (BRI1p::BRI1-GFP and amiR-TML) day-old seedlings grown vertically in light on medium supplemented with ethanol or 5 μM (BRI1-GFP and amiR-TML) and 9 μM (Col-0 and amiR-TPLATE) of 17-β-estradiol were gravistimulated by a 90° rotation. The angle of the root tips deviating from the vertical plane was measured with ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) software 24 hr after gravistimulation. Gravicurvature was quantified in two independent experiments with n = 101–279 roots analyzed for each assay. All gravitropically stimulated roots were assigned to one of the eight 45° sectors on a gravitropism diagram. The length of the bars in the diagram represents the percentage of seedlings assigned to the respective sector. WT Nicotiana benthamiana plants (3–4 weeks old) were used to transiently express the various BiFC construct combinations by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transient transformation of lower epidermal leaf cells as previously described (CITATION) using a modified buffer (10 mM MgCl2 (1 M stock solution, Merck); 10 mM MES (0.5 M stock solution, Duchefa); 100 μM Acetosyringone (100 mM stock solution, Sigma-Aldrich) and addition of a P19 expressing Agrobacterium strain to boost protein expression (CITATION). All Agrobacterium strains were grown for 2 days, diluted to OD 0.5 in infiltration buffer and incubated for 2 hr at room temperature before mixing in a 1:1 ratio with other strains and injecting. After 3 to 5 days of incubation, interaction of the proteins was scored by screening lower epidermal cells for fluorescence using confocal microscopy. Protein complexes were isolated by a GS (CITATION) purification protocol according to (CITATION). Following TAP, the protein complexes were TCA precipitated and prepared for mass spectrometry analysis. For MS analysis by MALDI TOF/TOF, proteins were separated on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen) and visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. Gel lanes were cut in 48 slices. Proteins were processed and digested by trypsin per gel slice (CITATION). Mass spectra were obtained by a 4800 MALDI TOF/TOF Proteomics Analyzer (AB SCIEX), and MS-based protein homology identification on the TAIR genomic database was done (CITATION). Experimental background proteins were subtracted based on approximately 40 TAP experiments on wild-type cultures and cultures expressing TAP-tagged GUS, RFP and GFP mock proteins (CITATION). For MS analysis by LTQ Orbitrap Velos (Thermo, Bremen, Germany), eluted proteins were separated in a short run of 7 min on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen) and visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. A broad zone, containing all proteins per TAP elution, was cut from the protein gel, sliced into 24 gel plugs, and processed and digested with trypsin as one sample (CITATION). LC-MS/MS runs on LTQ Orbitrap Velos, and peak list generation and submission for protein-homology-based identification on the TAIR database were done as described in Supplementary Methods for the LC-MS/MS VELOS2 analysis (CITATION). A list of nonspecific background proteins was assembled by combining our previous background list (CITATION) with background proteins from control purifications on mock, GFP-GS, and GUS-GS cell culture extracts, identified with LTQ Orbitrap VELOS. To obtain the final list of interactors, this background list was subtracted from the list of identified proteins. Interaction networks were visualized using the Cytoscape software package (CITATION). Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen retched (20 Hz, 1 min) 5-day-old seedlings grown on vertical plates or in liquid 1/2 MS (TMLΔC) using half the volume (w/(1/2 v)) of extraction buffer (CITATION) complemented with 0.1% benzonase. Cell debris was removed by 2 rounds of centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C and the supernatant was collected. The extracts were boiled in sample buffer for 10 min at 95°C and loaded in equal amounts (30 μg) on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. SDS-PAGE separated proteins were blotted on Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore). Membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C in 3% (v/v) milk powder dissolved in 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH8, 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween20. The blots were then incubated at room temperature with the Living Colors A.v. Monoclonal GFP antibody (1/5,000) (JL-8, Clontech). Protoplasts were collected from a 2 ml solution after centrifugation (1,500rpm, 5 min) and 200 μl extraction buffer was added to the pellet of protoplasts. The composition of the extraction buffer is described in (CITATION). A homogenized extract was obtained by vortexing thoroughly. To separate the protein extract from the cell debris, the solution was centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 15 min, 4°C. The protein extract was collected from the supernatant (input fraction). Next, the soluble protein extract was incubated with 25 μl ANTI-FLAG M2 affinity resin (Sigma-Aldrich, A2220) for 2 hr on a rotating wheel at 4°C. Following incubation, the resin and its bound proteins were pelleted by centrifugation (1,500 rpm, 1 min, 4°C) whereas the supernatant contained the unbound fraction. The resin was washed 3 times with 500 μl extraction buffer and the bound proteins were eluted on ice with 3 times 50 μl 200 μg/ml Flag-peptide. The eluted protein fraction was precipitated overnight with TCA (25% v/v) at 4°C as described by (CITATION). Input, unbound and eluted fractions were boiled in sample buffer for 10 min at 95°C and loaded in equal amounts on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Western blotting was performed as described above. The blots were then incubated at room temperature either with the monoclonal anti-Flag M2 antibody (1:1,000) (F3165, Sigma-Aldrich) or the HA high-affinity antibody (1:1,000) (3F10, Roche Applied Science). Antigen-antibody complexes were detected with anti-mouse or anti-rat horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/10,000) (Amersham Biosciences) using chemiluminescence (Perkin-Elmer). Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen ground 6-day-old seedlings grown on vertical 1/2 MS plates using an equal volume (w/v) of extraction buffer (CITATION) which was vortexed thoroughly. Cell debris was removed at 14,000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C and the supernatant was collected as the input fraction. 2 mg protein from the input fraction was incubated with 15 μl effective, pre-equilibrated GFP-Trap_A agarose beads (Chromotek) for 1 hr, gently rotating at 4°C. The unbound fraction was removed from the beads after a brief centrifugation at 1,500 rpm for 1 min at 4°C. Beads were washed twice with 500 μl homogenization buffer. The bound protein fraction was boiled from the beads with sample buffer at 95°C for 10 min and loaded onto an 8% SDS-PAGE protein gel, together with 10 μg from the input and unbound fraction. Each gel was loaded in duplicate in order to detect the GFP-tagged protein and endogenous AP2A on different blots. Western blotting was performed as described above. The blots were incubated at room temperature either with the Living Colors A.v. Monoclonal GFP antibody (1/5,000) (JL-8, Clontech) or an antibody directed against AP2A (1/2,000) (CITATION). Antigen-antibody complexes were detected with anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/10,000) (Amersham Biosciences) using chemiluminescence (Perkin-Elmer). Sterilized seeds (tplate/tplate + LAT52p::TPLATE-GFP) (CITATION) were germinated in liquid medium (2.15 g/l Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture (MS), 10 g/l sucrose, 0.5 g/l MES, 0. 1 g/l myo-inositol, 20 mg/l hygromycin) in shake flasks under a short day regime (8 hr light/16 hr dark). After 6 days, seedlings were harvested, frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80°C. For the APMS experiments with the estradiol-inducible VENUS-TMLΔC in CITATIOND, seedlings were germinated in liquid, grown for 6 days without induction and induced for 24 hr with 5 μM estradiol before harvesting. Total protein extract preparation was performed as before (CITATION), with some minor adaptations. Briefly, 15 g of seedlings were grinded in liquid N2 in a blender and 30 ml of extraction buffer complemented with 0.1% benzonase was added. The extract was incubated for 30 min at 4°C. After two centrifugation steps of 20 min at 36,900 g, the extract was filtered through a double layer of Miracloth. Protein concentration was determined via the Bradford protein assay (BIORAD). 100 mg protein was incubated with 30 μl effective, pre-equilibrated GFP-Trap_A agarose beads (Chromotek) for 1 hr, gently rotating at 4°C. The unbound fraction was removed from the beads after a centrifugation at 450 g for 5 min at 4°C. Beads were transferred to a Mobicol column and washed with 6 ml wash buffer. The bound fraction was eluted with 40 μl 1xNuPAGE (Invitrogen) sample buffer at 70°C with regular mixing. Eluted proteins were precipitated by adding 9 volumes of ice-cold EtOH and overnight incubation at −70°C. Precipitated proteins were centrifuged at 13,000 g for 20 min at 4°C. EtOH was removed and the pellet air-dried. The pellet was dissolved in 30 μl 1× NuPAGE Sample Buffer, heated for 10 min at 70°C and separated in a short run of 7 min on a 4%–12% gradient NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen). Proteins were visualized with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. A broad zone, containing all eluted proteins, was cut from the protein gel, sliced into 24 gel plugs, and processed and digested with trypsin as one sample (CITATION). LC-MS/MS runs on LTQ Orbitrap Velos, and peak list generation and submission for protein homology-based identification on the TAIR database were done as described in Supplementary Methods for the LC-MS/MS VELOS2 analysis (CITATION). A list of nonspecific background proteins was assembled by combining background proteins from control GFP pull downs on mock, GFP and GUS-GFP cell culture and seedlings extracts, with our previous background list (CITATION) and background proteins from control GS purifications on mock, GFP-GS, and GUS-GS cell culture extracts, identified with LTQ Orbitrap VELOS. To obtain the final list of interactors, this background list was subtracted from the list of identified proteins. Total protein extracts were obtained from liquid nitrogen ground 14-day-old seedlings grown on vertical 1/2 MS+1%Sucrose plates using a double volume (w/v) of extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8; 10 mM MgCl2; 75 mM NaCl; 1 mM DTT; 0.1% Tween; Protease inhibitor cocktail tablet; Roche). The soluble protein fraction was obtained by a two-step centrifugation at 35,000 g for 20 min and at 14,000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C. 100 μg protein from the soluble fraction was loaded onto a 10% SDS-PAGE protein gel to detect the YFP-tagged protein. SDS-PAGE separated proteins were blotted on Hybond ECL nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare) at 70 V, 4°C, 3 hr. Membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C in 5% (v/v) milk powder dissolved in 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH8, 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween20. The blots were then incubated at room temperature with the monoclonal GFP antibody horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/5,000; 2 hr; Abcam) and further detected using chemiluminescence (Thermo Scientific). After confirming the presence of YFP-tagged protein, 2 mg of protein from the soluble fraction were mixed with 50 μl anti-GFP paramagnetic MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec) for 30 min on ice. The GFP-MicroBead-bound target protein was magnetically precipitated on columns according to the manufacturer’s instructions (μMACs; Miltenyi Biotec). The immunoprecipitated proteins eluted from the column were loaded onto a 10% SDS-PAGE protein gel. After gel processing, injections of digested protein were analyzed by LC-MS/MS using nano-flow HPLC (Proxeon Biosystems) and an Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Thermo Scientific) as mass analyzer. Peptides were eluted from a 75 μm analytical column (Reprosil C18, Dr. Maisch GmbH) on a linear gradient, running from 5% to 80% acetonitrile in 36 min at a flow rate of 250 nl/min. Up to five data-dependent MS/MS spectra were acquired in the linear ion trap for each FTMS full-scan spectrum acquired at 60,000 full-width half-maximum resolution settings with an overall cycle time of approximately 1 s. Raw file peak extraction, protein identification and quantitation of peptides was done with MaxQuant (version 1.2.2.5) using a protein sequence database of Arabidopsis thaliana (TAIR10, 35386 entries, www.arabidopsis.org). For protein identification, carbamidomethylation and N-terminal protein acetylation were used as fixed modifications and methionine oxidation as a variable modification. Standard settings in MaxQuant involving peptide false-discovery rate of 0.01, minimum peptide length of six amino acids and enabled retention time correlation, with a time window of two minutes were used. Mass accuracy was set to 6 ppm for full scans and 0.5 Da for MS/MS scans. Protein intensities were calculated using the program cRacker (CITATION). Principal steps included: (1) All peptide intensities were expressed as fraction of total ion intensity sum. To compensate effects on relative normalization of low number of detected peptides per sample, intensities were proportionally corrected to reciprocal number of identified peptides in each sample. (2) The normalized peptide intensities from all samples obtained from one gel line were summed up to cumulated protein intensities. (3) The protein intensities were normalized on the corresponding YFP protein intensity from each gel line according to the described method “internal reference protein normalization” (CITATION). Differences in log2 transformed protein abundance distributions between TML-YFP and control were tested using Student's t test (alpha = 0.05). The endogenous CLC2 protein was confirmed to immunoprecipitate with TML-YFP by western blotting, following the procedure described above. In this case, the membrane was incubated with a polyclonal antibody against CLC2 (1:1,000; 2 hr) (CITATION) which was detected by the secondary antibody anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (1/5,000; 1.5 hr). The flow through (unbound fraction) and washing fractions were included as controls. The APMS and anti-CLC2 immunoblotting was performed in three biological replicates of both TML-YFP and freeYFP samples. Protoplasts were made from 5-day-old PSB-D Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension. Cells from a 25 ml culture were collected after centrifugation (1,500 rpm, 5 min) and incubated with 25 ml filter-sterilized enzyme solution (1.5% cellulase (R10, Yakult Pharmaceutical Industry co., Ltd.), 0.3% macerozyme (R10, Yakult Pharmaceutical Industry Co., Ltd.) in GM medium (3.052 g/l Gamborg B5 Vitamins (Duchefa Direct), 0.34 M Glucose, 0.34 M Mannitol, pH 5.5) in a 50 ml falcon on a rotating wheel, overnight at room temperature. Note that the incubation time should never exceed 14h. Next, the protoplasts were collected after centrifugation (1,000 rpm for 5 min) and resuspended in 25 ml filter-sterilized GM medium. Following centrifugation (1,000 rpm, 5 min), the GM medium was removed and the protoplast pellet gently resuspended in 2.5 ml filter-sterilized sucrose medium (3.052 g/l Gamborg B5 Vitamins (Duchefa Direct), 0.28 M Sucrose, pH 5.5). After centrifugation (800 rpm, 5 min) the floating protoplasts were collected and brought to a concentration of 8 million cells per ml in sucrose medium from which 200 μl was transiently (co-) transfected with TML-3xFlag and TPLATE-3xHA fusion proteins under transcriptional control of the constitutive Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Twenty micrograms of the desired plasmid(s) in a total volume of 80 μl, adjusted with sucrose medium, was added to the protoplasts and 600 μl filter-sterilized PEG solution (20 g/50 ml PEG3350, 3.64 g/50 ml Mannitol, 1.18 g/50 ml Ca(NO3)2.4H2O, pH 6.0) was immediately added afterward. This mixture was incubated for 30 min at room temperature. After incubation, 2 ml Ca(NO3)2.4H2O was added and the solution was mixed by inversion. This step was repeated once before the transfected cells were collected by centrifugation (800 rpm, 7 min) and resuspended in 2 ml GM medium containing 5% NAA. The protoplasts were transferred to a 6-well plate and incubated overnight, in the dark, at room temperature. pDEST22 and pDEST32 expression vectors were transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae PJ694 strain, mating type a and α respectively, via heat shock. Three single transformants were selected to perform the mating and yeasts containing both pDEST22 and pDEST32 were selected in liquid medium without Leucine (Leu) and Tryptophane (Trp) for 2 days at 30°C. All cultures were diluted to the same density (OD 0.2) and spotted onto SD agar plates without Leu and Trp, as a positive control for the presence of both constructs, and SD agar plates without Leu, Trp and His with the histidine biosynthesis inhibitor 3-aminotriazole (3AT) in concentrations ranging from 0 to 50 mM, in order to check auto-activation. Interaction was estimated after 2 days incubation at 30°C, based on the growth of the yeast cells. Additional auto-activation controls included the mating of single transformants with yeasts containing the empty pDEST22 or pDEST32 vector. Total protein extracts from 1 g harvested Arabidopsis PSB-D suspension cells expressing 35Sp::GS-TPLATE or 35Sp::GS-TML were prepared according to the NativePAGETM Novex Bis-Tris gels electrophoresis protocol by Invitrogen and separated under native conditions over a 3%–12% NativePAGETM Novex Bis-Tris gel (Invitrogen). Lanes were subsequently cut out and incubated with denaturing buffer (50 mM Tris pH 6.8, 66 mM Na2CO3, 10% (w/v) glycerol, 2% (w/v) SDS, 2% β-mercaptoethanol) for 1 hr under gentle agitation. Denatured first dimension lanes were placed onto the stacking of a 12% SDS-PAGE gel and the proteins were separated in the second dimension using the Mini-PROTEAN II system (Bio-Rad) for 70 min at 180V. Western blotting was performed as mentioned above and the blots were developed using the Peroxidase Anti-Peroxidase (PAP) antibody (1:2,500) (P1291, Sigma-Aldrich). Total protein extracts from liquid-grown transgenic 6-day-old seedlings or PSB-D suspension-cultured cells were prepared as described (CITATION). Briefly, seedlings or PSB-D cells were frozen in liquid nitrogen, lysed by homogenization in the presence of extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCL pH7.5, 15 mM MgCL2, 5 mM EGTA, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% v/v NP-40, 5.0% v/v Glycerol, 15 mM p-nitrophenylphosphate, 60 mM β-Glycerophosphate, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, 1.0 mMNaF, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 5 μg/ml pepstatin A, 1 μg/ml chymostatin, 1 mM p-Aminobenzamidine, 1 mM ε-Aminocaproic acid, 5 μg/ml aprotinin, 1 μg/ml leupeptin, 10 μg/ml E64) and the homogenate was subjected to centrifugation at 37,000 g for 20 min at 4°C. The 37,000 g supernatant was then centrifuged at 174,000 g for 45 min at 4°C. Protein concentrations of the lysates were determined using Pierce 660 nm Protein Assay reagent (cat.# 22660, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) and bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a standard. 500 μg of total protein extract was fractionated on a 5.0 ml continuous 10%–35% (v/v) glycerol gradient in extraction buffer by centrifugation at 115,000 g in a SW50.1 rotor (Beckman) for 16.5 hr at 4°C. Fractions were collected from the top and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. In parallel, gradients were centrifuged containing globular protein standards with known sedimentation coefficients (Sw 20°C): ovalbumin (3.66S), BSA (4.41S), yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (7.61S), β-amylase (8.9S), catalase (11.3S), apoferritin (17.7S) and thyroglobulin (19.4S) and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie staining. Immunoblots were probed with mouse anti-GFP (GFP-TML or VENUS-TMLΔC) 1:5,000 in TBS-0.1% v/v Tween20 +4% w/v milk for 1 hr after blocking in TBST +4% milk for 1 hr. PAP antibodies anti-mouse HRP was incubated with GFP blots for 1 hr in TBS-0.1% v/v Tween20 + 4% w/v milk, detected using Lumi-Light Plus (Roche) and visualized using an ImageQuant LAS4010 digital imaging system (GE Healthcare Life Science, Piscataway, NJ).
