!~ABS~! Cellulose synthase-like (Csl) genes are believed to encode enzymes for the synthesis of cell wall matrix polysaccharides. The subfamily of CslA is putatively involved in the biosynthesis of β-mannans. Here we report a study on the cellular localization and the enzyme activity of an Arabidopsis CslA family member, AtCslA2. We show that the fluorescent protein fusion AtCslA2-GFP, transiently expressed in tobacco leaf protoplasts, is synthesized in the ER and it accumulates in the Golgi stacks. The chimera is inserted in the Golgi membrane and is functional since membrane preparations obtained by transformed protoplasts carry out the in vitro synthesis of a 14C-mannan starting from GDP-d-[U-14C]mannose as substrate. The enzyme specific activity is increased by approximately 38% in the transformed protoplasts with respect to wild-type. Preliminary tests with proteinase K, biochemical data, and TM domain predictions suggest that the catalytic site of AtCslA2 faces the Golgi lumen.
!~RES~! A C-terminal fusion of the full-length coding region of AtCslA2 to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) was constructed and transiently expressed in tobacco leaf protoplasts to investigate its subcellular localization. Laser confocal scanning microscopy revealed fluorescence in a cortical reticulate network and some high mobile punctate structures (CITATION), suggesting the chimera localization in the ER and Golgi compartments. Treatment with Brefeldin A, a lipophilic fungal toxin known to induce disassembly of the Golgi stacks among other effects [CITATION], determined the aggregation of the punctate structures (Figures CITATION and CITATION) and, during time, the redistribution of the fluorescence into the tubular and cortical network (CITATION). This suggested that AtCslA2-GFP may be localized in the Golgi stacks. To further demonstrate this localization, the chimera was coexpressed with ST52-mRFP, a trans-Golgi stack marker [CITATION, CITATION]. A complete colocalization of the green and red fluorescence was observed (Figures CITATION–CITATION), evidencing that both ST52-mRFP and AtCslA2 accumulated in the Golgi stacks. The final localization of the chimera in the Golgi stacks was also confirmed by treating AtCslA2-GFP transiently transformed protoplasts with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. After 2 h of treatment, the punctate structures were the only fluorescent compartments evidenced (CITATION). Altogether these data demonstrate that GFP-tagged AtCslA2 protein is cotranslationally inserted into ER to further reach the Golgi apparatus, which represents its stable localization. The presence of the chimera in the intracellular protein fraction, including the endomembrane system, was confirmed by immunoblot analyses of protein extracted from the transformed protoplasts using an anti-GFP antibody (CITATION). The protein band shows the expected molecular mass of 88.5 kDa. A very small amount of the chimera was detected in the protein fraction of the medium. The amino acid (aa) sequence analysis of the AtCslA2 cDNA product predicted a polypeptide of 534 aa showing four TM domains and two hydrophilic regions, between the first and second and the third and fourth TM domains (TMHMM server v. 2.0., http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/). To ascertain the insertion of the chimera into the lipid bilayer, its solubility in the nonionic detergent Triton X-114 was analysed. After extraction and phase separation of the total AtCslA2 transformed protoplast proteins, the major percentage of the chimera was detected in the detergent phase confirming that it was an integral membrane protein (CITATION). AtCslA2 is a member of Arabidopsis CslA gene family encoding for a putative mannan synthase. To determine whether AtCslA2-GFP was functional in tobacco protoplasts, we tested its enzymatic activity isolating the total membrane fraction from the homogenates of wild-type and AtCslA2-GFP transiently transformed protoplasts and incubating them in the presence of GDP-d-[U-14C]mannose as substrate. After 30 min, the radioactivity incorporated in the 70% ethanol precipitated product was measured and the enzymatic activity associated with the membranes was calculated (CITATION). Radioactive polymers were synthesized either from wild-type or transformed protoplasts. 14C-polymers were immobile when electrophoresed in acetic acid/formic acid buffer (pH 2.0) and were not eluted from Whatman no. 1 paper after several washing either with H2O or with mixtures of chloroform-methanol (1 : 1, v/v) and chloroform-methanol-water (3 : 48 : 47; 10 : 10 : 3, v/v). Total acid hydrolysis and β-mannanase treatment of the 14C-polymers released only mannose as radioactive sugar (paper chromatography, solvent system A). No other radioactive sugars were detected when the incubation medium was analysed for the presence of a GDP-mannose 2-epimerase activity (data not shown). These results demonstrated the presence of a β-mannosyl transferase activity in tobacco leaf protoplasts and an appreciable, highly statistically significant (P = 0.004) increase of this activity, approximately 38%, in AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts indicating that the inserted chimera functions properly in the Golgi membranes. Based on TM domain prediction (TMHMM server), AtCslA2 active site should face the Golgi lumen. To ascertain this hypothesis, mannan synthase activity was tested in the presence of proteinase K, with or without Triton X-100. The enzymatic activity was drastically reduced (P < 0.001 with respect to untreated AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts) when membranes were permeabilized with detergent during proteinase K treatment (CITATION). The results indicate that the catalytic site of AtCslA2 faces the lumen of the Golgi stacks, according to bioinformatic predictions. A hypothetical model of the polypeptide topology based on the locations of the predicted TM domains is reported in CITATION.
!~MM~! The cDNA coding for AtCslA2 was purchased from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, Ohio State University). The cDNA sequence was amplified with primers Man01 (5′-ggagcccggatccatggacggtg-3′) and Man02 (5′-caactgctagctcgggacataagtccc-3′) to introduce, respectively, BamHI and NheI restriction sites. The BamHI/NheI fragment was introduced into a GFP-containing vector PGIP2-GFP [CITATION] to construct AtCslA2-GFP. The construct was confirmed by sequencing (PRIMM srl, Milan, Italy). Tobacco protoplasts were prepared from the leaves of Nicotiana tabacum cv SR1 plants and transiently transformed as described by [CITATION]. Equivalent quantities (20 μg) of plasmids were used for the colocalization experiments. The fluorescent pattern of over 1200 cells was analysed. Brefeldin A (10 μg/mL; Sigma-Aldrich) or cycloheximide (30 μg/mL; Sigma-Aldrich) was added into the incubation medium for 2 h before confocal analyses. Protoplasts transiently expressing fluorescent constructs were observed by a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM 710 Zeiss) in their culture medium at different times after transformation. To detect GFP fluorescence, a 488 nm argon ion laser line was used, and the emission was recorded with 505–530 nm filter set; RFP was detected with a 560–615 nm filter set after He–Ne laser excitation at 543 nm, while chlorophyll epifluorescence was detected with the filter set for tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC; >650 nm) and eliminated. The power of each laser line, the gain, and the offset were identical for each experiment so that the images were comparable. Appropriate controls were performed to exclude the possibility of crosstalk between the two fluorochromes before image acquisition. Extracellular and intracellular protein fraction, cell lysis, phase separation, and immunoblot analyses were performed as previously described [CITATION]. Protoplasts were harvested by gentle centrifugation at 65 ×g without break, after dilution of the incubation medium with two volumes of W5. The medium was concentrated by filtration on Centricon Plus 20 (Amicon) to obtain the extracellular protein fraction (OUT). The protoplasts were suspended in homogenization buffer (40 mM Hepes-NaOH buffer pH 7.5, 10 mM imidazole, 1 mM benzamidine, 5 mM 6-amino-hexanoic acid, 10 mM dithiothreitol, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and sonicated. The homogenate was centrifuged at 800 ×g for 10 min at 4°C to remove cell wall debris and the supernatant was precipitated with 80% acetone at −20°C (three times) to obtain the protein intracellular fraction (IN) that includes endomembrane compartments and organelles. Protein concentration was determined according to [CITATION]. Identical amounts of total protein from each subcellular preparation were subjected to SDS-PAGE electrophoresis [CITATION] and immunoblotting analyses. After electrophoresis, protein samples were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Hybond-C extra: GE Healthcare) and blocked with 5% skim-milk powder in TBS (20 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5; 500 mM NaCl; 5% w/v milk powder) for 2 h. Anti-GFP (1 : 5000 v/v) (Molecular Probes) was used in TBS + 1% skimmed-milk powder. Each protein fraction was visualized after ECL (ECL western blotting analysis system, GE Healthcare) chemodetection. Cell lysis and phase separation were carried out as described by [CITATION] modified by [CITATION]. To test AtCslA2 solubility in Triton X-114, AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts were freeze-thawed twice in 10 mM Tris-buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.15 M NaCl and 1 mM EDTA and centrifuged at 800 ×g for 10 min. The 800 ×g supernatant was adjusted to 1.5 mL with Tris-buffer (pH 7.5) and Triton X-114 was added into a final concentration of 1% v/v. To assay mannan synthase activity, protoplasts were suspended and sonicated in 0.1 M sodium-phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) containing 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.4 M sucrose, and 1% bovine serum albumin. The resulting homogenate was centrifuged at 800 ×g for 10 min at 2°C. The 800 ×g supernatant was further centrifuged at 100000 ×g for 60 min at 2°C to obtain a pellet consisting of membranous material (total membrane fraction). This pellet was suspended in 0.5 mL of 0.1 M sodium-phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) as described above, homogenized, and immediately stored in Eppendorf tubes under liquid nitrogen until use. Mannan synthase assays were performed as described by [CITATION]. Standard reaction was carried out in a final volume of 50 μL containing 0.20 nmol of GDP-d-[U-14C]mannose (approximately 1500 Bq), 20 nmol of GDP-d-mannose, and 10 μL of total membrane fraction in 0.1 M sodium-phosphate buffer (pH 7.2). Reactions were performed at 27°C for 30 min and stopped by adding 500 μL of 70% ethanol. Ethanol insoluble molecules, including 14C-polymer, were precipitated by centrifugation at 10000 ×g for 5 min. The pellet was rewashed five times with 70% ethanol in order to remove unreacted radiolabelled precursors. To verify the presence of a 2-epimerase activity, the incubation medium, depleted of polymers, was paper-electrophoresed (pH 3.5) [CITATION] and the eluted GDP-sugars were hydrolysed in 0.1 M HCl and paper-chromatographed (solvent A). When the effect of proteinase K and Triton X-100 was tested, equal aliquots of total membrane fraction were incubated with 400 μg/mL Proteinase K with or without the addition of 1% Triton X-100 for 30 min at 25°C. The reactions were stopped by the addition of 500 μL of 200 mM PMSF. Total acid hydrolysis of the 14C-polymer was carried out in 3% (w/w) H2SO4 at 120°C, 103 kPa, for 1 h. The hydrolysates were neutralised by a bicarbonate form of amberlite IR-45 (OH) resin, rotary-evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure, and dissolved in 30 μL of H2O and an aliquot used for paper chromatography. Enzymic hydrolysis with β-mannanase from Bacillus subtilis or Penicillium wortmannin was performed as described by [CITATION]. Descending paper chromatography was performed on Whatman no. 1 paper and developed with Solvent A: ethyl acetate-pyridine-water (8 : 2 : 1, by vol.). Paper electrophoresis was carried out on Whatman no. 1 paper in acetic acid (8%, v/v) and formic acid (2%, v/v) buffer, pH 2.0, 5 kV for 45 min to separate GDP-sugars and sugar phosphates from polysaccharides and neutral material [CITATION]. To separate NDP-sugars, paper electrophoresis was carried out in pyridine 5% (v/v) acetic acid buffer pH 3.5, 5 kV for 30–45 min [CITATION]. Detection of the markers and radioactive counting procedure were performed as described by [CITATION]. The biochemical data from wild-type and AtCslA2-GFP transformed tobacco leaf protoplasts were compared using Student's t-test and values were expressed as means ± standard deviation of at least three independent replicated experiments (n = 3). SigmaStat version 3.11 software (Systat Software Inc.) was used for statistical analysis. P value of less than 0.05 was considered to indicate statistical significance.
