!~ABS~! Functional redundancy arises between gene paralogs as well as non-homologous genes that play a common role at a shared node. The bHLH transcription factor FAMA, along with the paralogous MYB genes, FOUR LIPS (FLP) and MYB88 all ensure that Arabidopsis stomata contain just two guard cells (GCs) by enforcing a single symmetric precursor cell division before stomatal maturity. Consistent with this function, FLP and FAMA exhibit the same expression pattern in which both translational GFP fusions emit fluorescence just before and after symmetric division; however, FAMA but not FLP is required to confer GC fate. Strikingly, swapping the genes and promoters of the FLP and FAMA genes results in the reciprocal complementation of respective loss-of-function mutants. Thus, an FLP transgene can restore GC fate to a fama mutant background. FAMA, FLP and the FLP paralog MYB88 were previously shown to influence higher order functions in stomatal development, including maintaining and stabilizing stomatal fate. Here we show that these overlapping functions are likely to also involve interactions between FLP and FAMA with the RETINOBLASTOMA-RELATED (RBR) protein.
!~RES~! As expected, transformation with an FLP transgene under the control of the native promoter, with or without a translational GFP fusion, complements abnormal stomatal cluster defects in flp loss-of-function mutants (Figure 1). Similarly, the insertion of a FAMA transgene under the control of the native promoter (FAMAtrans) restores a wild-type phenotype to fama mutants (Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Lee et al., companion article) (Figure 1c). Translational GFP fusions of both genes are expressed at the same stage: i.e. just before and after GMC symmetric division (Figure 1a,b), a pattern of fluorescence unaffected by a wild-type or mutant background (Lai et al., CITATION; Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] To explore a possible overlap in FLP and FAMA function, each translational fusion was transformed into a loss-of-function mutant in the other gene. Strikingly, the transformation of proFLP:cFLP-GFP (termed FLPtrans) into a fama-1 loss-of-function mutant restored a wild-type phenotype (Figure 1c). Thus, this FLPtrans construct not only eliminated excess symmetric divisions and a GC cluster phenotype, but also restored GC fate, consistent with FLPtrans rescuing the fama-1 phenotype (Figure 1c). Similarly, the FLP translational fusion restored strong shoot growth to fama mutant plants that would otherwise set few seeds and display low biomass (Figure S3). The reciprocal transformation, that of proFAMA:cFAMA-GFP, also eliminated stomatal cluster formation in flp mutants (as well as in flp myb88 double mutants; Figure 1c). Thus, translational fusions of FLP and FAMA can each restore normal stomatal formation to fama as well as to flp mutants. ICE1 is another bHLH gene important for stomatal development. Like FLP and FAMA, ICE1 restricts symmetric divisions, thus ensuring that stomata contain just two GCs, and ICE1 and FAMA share a common expression window in stomatal development and can form heterodimers (Kanaoka et al., CITATION). We thus asked whether transformation with FLP or FAMA might also complement the ice1 stomatal cluster phenotype; however, neither transgene restored a wild-type phenotype to an ice1-2 mutant background, consistent with ICE1, along with FAMA, being required for stomatal formation (Figure S4). As FLP and FAMA reciprocally rescue respective loss-of-function mutants, we tested the effects of mixing promoter and coding regions. A proFAMA:cFLP-GFP fusion (FLP coding region driven by the FAMA promoter) complemented the loss-of-function phenotype of the fama-1 allele (as well as an flp-1 myb88 double mutant; Figure 1d), a complementation that included the restoration of GC fate to a fama mutant. Similarly, a proFLP:cFAMA-GFP construct restored a wild-type phenotype to a fama-1 single mutant and to a flp1 myb88 double mutant (Figure 1d). Thus, both the FLP and FAMA upstream regulatory sequences can effectively target the same expression compartment in the Arabidopsis stomatal cell lineage, even though they normally act in separate but convergent pathways. Despite their shared function in restricting GMC division, FLP and FAMA do not appear to directly interact (Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Figure S5). Their coordinated function might instead depend upon the separate interaction of FLP and FAMA with shared proteins. The bHLH protein ICE1 is a candidate common target, as ice1 mutants also display stomatal clusters and ICE1 and FAMA interact (Kanaoka et al., CITATION). To identify additional possible ICE1 interactors, bimolecular fluorescent complementation (BiFC) assays were performed in which candidate proteins were fused to one of two halves of an enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP). In this assay, positive protein–protein interactions lead to the restoration of a functional EYFP, which then emits a fluorescence signal (Citovsky et al., CITATION); however, we found no interactions between ICE1 and FLP, ICE1 and MYB88 or MYB88 and FAMA (Figure S5). A potential interactor is the RBR protein, as the RBR gene negatively regulates cell cycling and can control cell fate (Gutzat et al., CITATION). Moreover, RBR has been shown to interact with several transcription factors, such as SCARECROW and SHORTROOT, in the GRAS family (Cruz-Ramírez et al., CITATION). RBR also interacts with members of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which functions in chromatin modification, including in Histone3 K27 trimethylation (Desvoyes et al., CITATION; Magyar et al., CITATION). The LxCxE (Leu-x-Cys-x-Glu) motif that is essential for RBR protein binding is also present in FAMA (Miskolczi et al., CITATION). We tested whether RBR binds to FLP and FAMA, as all three negatively regulate cell division and are involved in GC fate maintenance (Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Xie et al., CITATION; Lee et al., companion article). Using BiFC assays, FLP, MYB88 and FAMA were each found to interact separately with RBR in vivo (Figure 2 and Figure S5). An FLP–FAMA pair was used as a negative control, and FAMA–ICE1 was used as a positive control (Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Kanaoka et al., CITATION). By contrast, RBR failed to interact with MUTE or ICE1 (Figure S5). These data support a scenario in which the heterodimerization of RBR with FLP, MYB88 and FAMA in vivo collectively controls the late phase of stomatal development. [[FIGURE]] The function of RBR later in stomatal development was probed using amiR-RBR driven by the FAMA promoter (proFAMA:amiR-RBR). Whereas proTMM:amiR-RBR transformants harbored many asymmetric divisions throughout the epidermis (Figure S6), the proFAMA:amiR-RBR construct induced asymmetric divisions specifically within original GCs. As a result, stomata sometimes developed within these founder GCs (Figure 3a–d), an abnormality resembling the SIS phenotype in FAMAtrans plants (Lee et al. companion article). The severity of this SIS phenotype increased with age in proFAMA:amiR-RBR plants, but this increase was less severe compared with FAMAtrans and FLP trans plants. In 20-day-old cotyledons, 21% (±2.26% SD) of all original GCs harbored ectopic asymmetric divisions and stomata. In 35-day-old first leaves, almost half (47 ± 1.72% SD) of all original GCs contained stomata or asymmetric divisions. Original GCs in these plants showed no or low expression of a GC fate marker (E1728), and instead exhibited strong fluorescence from proTMM:TMM-GFP (Figure 3e–f). Thus the transformation of otherwise wild-type plants with a proFAMA:amiR-RBR construct can reset the fate of mature GCs to that of stomatal lineage-specific stem cells. [[FIGURE]] As RBR interacts with FLP, MYB88 and FAMA, their genetic relationships were analyzed by characterizing the phenotypes of an flp-1 myb88 proFAMA:amiR-RBR triple mutant and a fama-1 proFAMA:amiR-RBR double mutant. Both sets of mutants displayed many ectopic stem cell divisions within flp-1 myb88 or fama cell clusters, as shown by high levels of TMM but not of E1728 (GC marker) expression (Figure 4n–q). Thus, cells in flp myb88 or fama clusters that form via excess symmetric divisions in turn divide asymmetrically in the presence of a proFAMA:amiR-RBR construct (Figure 4c–g, i–m). [[FIGURE]] Asymmetric divisions induced by proFAMA:amiR-RBR in a flp myb88 background induce the formation of new GMCs and stomata within these clusters (Figure 4k–m). The extent and persistence of these asymmetric divisions often obscures the outlines of original GCs (Figure 4m). The introduction of proFAMA:amiR-RBR into a fama mutant background also induces ectopic asymmetric divisions; however, this fama proFAMA:amiR-RBR double mutant lacks an SIS phenotype, presumably because FAMA is required for GC fate (Figure 4c–g). As discussed, each stoma develops via an equal GMC division. Before this division, Arabidopsis GMCs harbor end-wall thickenings that predict the site of wall fusion (Lai et al., CITATION; Figure 4d). As also noted, flp mutant alleles (with or without myb88) display groups of stomata that contact each other in linear arrays. In fama and flp myb88 cell clusters, the GMC end-wall thickenings not only persist but increase in length (and sometimes thickness as well) as new equal divisions occur (Figure 4b,e,j). Thus, many of the proFAMA:amiR-RBR-induced asymmetric divisions in flp myb88 and fama mutants take place in cells that have a GMC fate. Moreover, the ectopic asymmetric division phenotype induced by proFAMA:amiR-RBR is more severe in flp myb88 and in fama mutants, compared with the wild-type, probably because these divisions occur earlier, i.e. in the GMC rather than GC stage. By contrast, proFAMA:amiR-RBR does not induce ectopic asymmetric divisions in GMCs in tmm, indicating that tmm does not provide a sensitized background for amiR-RBR action (Figure S7). Together, these data are consistent with RBR functioning along with FLP/MYB88 and FAMA in maintaining GMC fate, and by extension, with reinforcing the fate of the GC itself.
!~MM~! The following mutants were used in this study: tmm-1, flp-1 myb88, fama-1 and ice1-2 (Nadeau and Sack, CITATION; Lai et al., CITATION; Ohashi-Ito and Bergmann, CITATION; Kanaoka et al., CITATION). In addition, transgenic plants showing stomatal lineage-specific expression were also used: i.e. proTMM:GUS-GFP, proTMM:TMM-GFP, proMUTE:nucGFP and E1728 (Nadeau and Sack, CITATION). Seeds of fama-1 (Salk_100073), ice1-2 (Salk_003155) and of the E1728 enhancer trap line were obtained from the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org). Seeds of proMUTE:nucGUS were obtained from Dominique Bergmann (Stanford University). Plants were grown on sterile agar or soil (Promix, Premier Horticulture, http://www.pthorticulture.com/) at 22°C with a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle. The proFAMA:cFAMA and proFLP:cFLP constructs have been described by Lee et al. (companion article). For proFAMA:cFLP, the same regulatory sequences (−3412 bp of the upstream region from the start codon) were used to direct FLP expression. For proFLP:cFAMA, a cDNA of the FAMA coding region was used (Lee et al., companion article). Primer sequences for the proICE1:cICE1-GFP construct were generated as described by Kanaoka et al. (CITATION). The resulting ICE1 cDNA was cloned into an AscI site at the 3′ end of the ICE1 promoter in pENTR/TOPO, and was then recombined into a pGWB4 vector (Tanaka et al., CITATION). All PCR-amplified DNA fragments were constructed using pfu high-fidelity DNA polymerase (NEB, http://www.neb.com), verified by sequencing. To generate proTMM:amiR-RBR and proFAMA:amiR-RBR, amiRNAs specific for RBR1 were designed using WMD Web tool versions 1 or 2 (Schwab et al., CITATION). The resulting amiRNA was cloned into an AscI site at the 3′ end of the TMM and FAMA promoters in pENTR/TOPO, and was then recombined into a pGWB1 vector (Tanaka et al., CITATION; see Table S1 for primer sequences for cloning). All constructs were introduced into wild-type, tmm-1, flp-1 myb88 and fama-1 plants using the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Transgenic lines were selected on half-strength MS medium containing 25 μg ml−1 hygromycin and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. Stomatal cluster frequencies for complementation assays were determined from micrographs of the abaxial epidermis using an Olympus AX-70 light microscope (http://www.olympus-global.com). Entire cotyledons at different stages were scored for the presence and extent of the SIS phenotype in Col-0 wild-type, FAMAtrans, FLPtrans and proFAMA:amiR-RBR plants. Phenotypes were scored as SIS if an original GC harbored one or more ectopic asymmetric divisions and/or a stoma within a stoma. Values are means ± SEs. For BiFC vectors, FAMA, FLP, MYB88, ICE1, MUTE and RBR were subcloned into pSAT4-nEYFP-C1 and pSAT4-cEYFP-C1-B via XhoI and BamHI to generate the C- and N-terminal fusion to the two YFP fragments (Citovsky et al., CITATION), and verified by sequencing. cDNA clones of ICE1 and RBR were obtained from the ABRC and served as templates. Fusions to either the N or C terminus yielded comparable results. Plasmid DNA was purified from Escherichia coli cultures using an endotoxin-free plasmid Maxi-prep kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). Protoplasts from Col-0 leaves were prepared and transformed as described with 10 μg of each vector used in each protoplast transformation (Yoo et al., CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from 15-day-old Col-0, flp-1 myb88 and fama-1 cotyledons to quantify the expression of the CDKB1;1 and CYCA2;3 genes using a Plant RNeasy Kit (Qiagen). cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg of DNase-treated total RNA using an oligo (dT)18 primer and superscript III reverse transcriptase enzyme (Invitrogen, now Life Technologies, http://www.lifetechnologies.com). RT product (1 μl) was used for quantitative real-time PCR. RT-PCR employed an iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com) analyzed using an iQ5 real-time PCR machine (Bio-Rad). The Arabidopsis ACTIN2 gene was used to approximate relative levels of constitutive and normalized control expression. Quantification of the relative changes in gene expression was performed using the 2−ΔΔCt method (Livak, CITATION), and all experiments were performed in triplicate. Gene-specific primers are shown in Table S1. GFP and propidium iodide fluorescence was viewed and captured using a Nikon Eclipse 80i confocal scanning laser microscope (http://www.nikoninstruments.com) and laser lines of 488 and 543 nm with Nikon Plan Apochromat oil immersion objectives (40 × 1.0 NA and 60 × 1.4 NA, respectively). An Olympus AX-70 wide-field light microscope was used to capture bright-field and differential interference contrast images.
