!~ABS~! The biogenesis and activity of chloroplasts in both vascular plants and algae depends on an intracellular network of nucleus-encoded, trans-acting factors that control almost all aspects of organellar gene expression. Most of these regulatory factors belong to the helical repeat protein superfamily, which includes tetratricopeptide repeat, pentatricopeptide repeat, and the recently identified octotricopeptide repeat (OPR) proteins. Whereas green algae express many different OPR proteins, only a single orthologous OPR protein is encoded in the genomes of most land plants. Here, we report the characterization of the only OPR protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, RAP, which has previously been implicated in plant pathogen defense. Loss of RAP led to a severe defect in processing of chloroplast 16S rRNA resulting in impaired chloroplast translation and photosynthesis. In vitro RNA binding and RNase protection assays revealed that RAP has an intrinsic and specific RNA binding capacity, and the RAP binding site was mapped to the 5′ region of the 16S rRNA precursor. Nucleoid localization of RAP was shown by transient green fluorescent protein import assays, implicating the nucleoid as the site of chloroplast rRNA processing. Taken together, our data indicate that the single OPR protein in Arabidopsis is important for a basic process of chloroplast biogenesis.
!~RES~! A few putative OPR proteins have been reported in Arabidopsis (CITATION). However, reevaluation of available genomic data has revealed only a single OPR protein, RAP (Olivier Vallon, personal communication). Arabidopsis RAP exhibits a putative plastid transit peptide of 78 amino acids (Figure 1A; Supplemental Figure 1A). The mature protein has a molecular mass of 67 kD. Its C-terminal half comprises four OPR repeats followed by a RAP (RNA binding domain abundant in apicomplexans) domain (Figure 1; Supplemental Figure 1A; CITATION), which is probably related to OPR repeats (CITATION). Secondary structure analysis with the Jpred algorithm (www.compbio.dundee.ac.uk/www.jpred; CITATION) predicted the presence of two α-helices in each of the OPR repeats identified (Figure 1B), as in the case of PPR and TPR repeats (CITATION; CITATION). This α-helical structure of the OPR repeats is further supported by the prediction of the 3D structure of the region representing OPR repeats 1 to 3 (Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, similarity searches revealed also only a single orthologous OPR gene in representative land plant genomes investigated, including the moss P. patens (Supplemental Figure 1A). The analysis of these OPR proteins showed clear conservation at the C terminus, including the OPR repeats and the RAP domain, indicating a monophyletic origin, whereas the N-terminal region is more variable (Supplemental Figure 1A). Like RAP, all analyzed orthologs are predicted to possess an organellar targeting signal (Supplemental Figure 1B). To characterize the function of RAP, we analyzed the Arabidopsis mutant line rap-1, which carries a T-DNA insertion in the third exon of the RAP gene (Figure 2A). Homozygous mutants were obtained from the T3 generation (Supplemental Figure 2B). The Arabidopsis rap-1 mutant (previously called atrap-1) was reported by CITATION to lack the full-length RAP mRNA and to exhibit retarded growth and a photobleached phenotype. We confirmed this phenotype, and we also uncovered a defect in photosynthetic activity in rap-1 based on our measurements of the maximal efficiency of photosystem II (PSII) photochemistry (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] The phenotype of rap-1 was complemented by introducing an RAP cDNA (Figure 2B). Even though 3-week-old complemented plants displayed slightly variegated and more serrated leaves than the wild type, their photosynthetic performance (as indicated by ratios of variable to maximum chlorophyll fluorescence [Fv/Fm]) was restored (Figure 2B). Except for a slightly retarded growth, 5-week-old plants displayed an almost completely wild-type phenotype. Because the introduced RAP sequence was expressed under control of the strong constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, the variegated leaf phenotype in younger plants suggests a dose-dependent function of RAP during early developmental stages. However, even though unlikely, we cannot formally exclude a second mutation in rap-1 that might be responsible for the incomplete restoration of the wild-type phenotype in young complemented plants. Because photosynthesis was clearly affected in rap-1, we analyzed the levels of core proteins of photosynthetic complexes in the rap-1 mutant line (Figure 2C). Whereas amounts of the nucleus-encoded light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) proteins were found to be unaffected in rap-1, amounts of all chloroplast-encoded proteins tested, including the PSII reaction center protein D1, the photosystem I reaction center protein PsaA, and the large subunit of Rubisco (RbcL), were clearly reduced. We next investigated the de novo synthesis rates of chloroplast-encoded proteins by performing in vivo 35S pulse-labeling experiments. As shown in Figure 2D, the overall protein synthesis rate was markedly lower in rap-1 relative to the wild type. The analysis of chloroplast transcripts revealed reductions in the steady state levels of most of the analyzed mRNAs, like rbcL, atpA, and petA, although the psbA transcript was present in wild-type amounts (Figure 2E). Most strikingly, inspection of the ethidium bromide–stained rRNAs used as a loading control uncovered a dramatic reduction in plastid 16S rRNA in mutant plants, whereas the cytoplasmic 18S rRNA and plastid 23S rRNAs accumulated normally (Figure 2E, bottom panel). Because 16S rRNA is required for ribosome assembly, and, therefore, for translation in chloroplasts, these data are consistent with the observed general decrease in chloroplast protein synthesis (Figure 2D) and explain the growth-retarded, chlorotic phenotype of rap-1 mutants (Figure 2B). Chloroplast 16S rRNA is cotranscribed with 23S, 4.5S, and 5S rRNAs, as well as two tRNAs, yielding a single RNA precursor that undergoes a complex series of processing events (Figure 3A). To investigate these events in detail, RNA gel blot analyses were performed on total leaf RNAs from 3-week-old wild-type and rap-1 plants using rRNA-specific probes (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] We detected equal amounts of the full-length (7.4 kilonucleotides [knt]) rRNA precursor in rap-1 and the wild type, indicating that accumulation of the full-length precursor rRNA is not significantly altered in the mutant (Figure 3B, probes A, C, and D). However, as suggested by the ethidium bromide–stained gels (Figures 2E and 3B), much less of the mature 16S rRNA of ∼1.5 knt is present in rap-1 (Figure 3B, probe B), whereas probes specific for 16S rRNAs retaining unprocessed 5′ and 3′ ends revealed a dramatic accumulation of such 16S precursors in rap-1 (Figure 3B, probes A and C). Both 5′- and 3′-specific probes detected a 16S rRNA precursor of ∼1.9 knt. In addition, the 5′ probe detected a less abundant ∼1.7-knt precursor that was not identified with the 3′ probe. This indicates that some, albeit incomplete, processing of the 3′ end of the immature 1.9-knt 16S species occurs, leading to the accumulation of 5′ unprocessed but 3′ processed 16S rRNAs. Thus, failure to process the 5′ end does not preclude trimming of the 3′ end. In contrast with 16S rRNA maturation, processing and accumulation of 23S, 4.5S, and 5S rRNAs were not affected in rap-1 (Figure 3B, probes D to F). Moreover, wild-type levels of mature 16S rRNA were restored in rap-1 mutants transformed with RAP cDNA, confirming that the lack of RAP is responsible for the defect in the maturation of 16S rRNA (Figure 3C). To identify the 5′ ends of the 16S-related transcripts that accumulate in the rap-1 mutant, a primer extension analysis was performed (Figures 4A and 4B). In agreement with the RNA gel blot analysis, the total amount of correctly 5′ processed, mature 16S RNA was appreciably reduced in the rap-1 mutant relative to the wild type (Figure 4B). By contrast, pre-16S rRNA 5′ ends originating from initiation at the P2 promoter at position −112 (transcribed from the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase PEP), as well as from processing at position −31, were clearly more abundant in the rap-1 mutant. In addition to these known 16S rRNA 5′ ends, we observed some transcript ends downstream of P2 that are more abundant in rap-1 than in the wild type and are likely to represent unspecific processing and/or degradation products (Figure 4B). Taken together, these data indicate that maturation of 16S rRNA is inefficient in the absence of RAP. [[FIGURE]] A recent analysis of RNA deep-sequencing data sets identified 50 small RNAs (sRNAs) in the chloroplast of Arabidopsis, which are hypothesized to represent footprints of RNA binding proteins that protect them from degradation (CITATION). Three such putative footprints had been identified within the 16S precursor (Figure 4A; Supplemental Figure 3; CITATION). RNA probes spanning these possible RAP footprints were hybridized to total RNAs prepared from wild-type or rap-1 plants and analyzed in an RNase protection assay (Figure 4C). With probes 2 and 3, protected fragments were obtained in both the wild type and rap-1, indicating that these two sRNAs accumulate independently of RAP (Figure 4C). However, probe 1, spanning an 18-nucleotide footprint downstream of the P2 promoter (FP1), detected two sRNAs of 18 to 20 nucleotides in length that are protected by total RNA from the wild type but not from rap-1 plants (Figure 4C; Supplemental Figure 3). Weaker signals in this size range obtained for rap-1 were also detected when yeast tRNA was used as a negative control, and these were therefore not considered as protected fragments. Hence, these data strongly suggest that RAP mediates its function by binding ∼100 nucleotides upstream of the 5′ end of the mature 16S rRNA. As RAP seems not to be involved in the protection of the other two putative footprints within the 16S precursor rRNA, other RNA binding proteins, like PPRs, might play a complementary or independent role in the 16S maturation process. To test for an intrinsic RNA binding activity of the recombinant RAP (rRAP) protein, which would support its direct involvement in sRNA protection, in vitro RNA binding assays were performed (Figure 5). As expression of RAP in fusion with a glutathione S-transferase tag resulted in very low overall expression levels, the protein was fused to the maltose binding protein (MBP), which had previously been used to successfully express PPR proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Using this system, reasonably high expression levels and sufficient amounts of soluble RAP protein were obtained. To exclude an interference of the MBP tag with the RNA binding capacity of RAP, we proteolytically removed the tag prior to RNA binding assays (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] An in vitro–transcribed RNA probe spanning the putative binding site for RAP in the 16S 5′ region (position −117 to −68 with respect to the start of the mature 16S rRNA), was cross-linked to rRAP by irradiation with UV light. As positive control, we used the RNA binding protein RBP40, which had previously been shown to bind unspecifically to RNA in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). Purified MBP served as a negative control. A single signal in the expected size range for rRAP (67 kD) was observed, indicating that rRAP directly interacts with RNA and that the protein preparation contains no substantial contaminating RNA binding activities from Escherichia coli (Figure 5B). Since UV cross-linking of RNA and protein leads to their covalent linkage, this assay is not suitable for detection of RNA binding activities under noncompetitive conditions. We therefore employed filter binding assays that leave RAP in its native state to determine the equilibrium constant (Kd) for the binding reactions of RAP to different RNAs (Figure 6A). Besides the putative target RNA (pre-16S 5′ region), we included its complementary sequence (as pre-16S 5′ region) as well as sequences of the psbD 5′ untranslated region (UTR) and the noncoding trnN 5′ region. All probes were similar in length and GC content and exhibited a similar or lower propensity to form secondary structures than the specific probe (determined by calculation of the free energy ΔG of the thermodynamic ensemble of RNA structures). Prior to the binding reactions, the integrity and concentration of RNA probes was verified by gel electrophoresis (Supplemental Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] Whereas the Kd value obtained for the putative target RNA was ∼101 nM, and therefore similar to those measured for other chloroplast RNA–protein interactions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), Kd values for the psbD, trnN, and antisense probes were considerably higher and could not be determined under these conditions. This supports the specific binding of RAP to the footprint RNA identified in vivo (Figure 4C) and suggests that RAP itself carries the main determinants required for specific recognition of its binding site within the 5′ region of the precursor of 16S rRNA. However, a slightly increased affinity of rRAP was observed for the 16S antisense probe compared with the other nontarget probes. In order to further substantiate the RNA binding specificity of RAP, competition experiments using a similar filter binding assay were performed. Same amounts of rRAP were incubated with the radiolabeled RNA probe containing its putative binding site in the presence of either homologous or heterologous competitor RNAs. The concentration and integrity of RNA probes was again verified by gel electrophoresis (Supplemental Figure 4B). As shown in Figure 6B, the competing effect was strongest when the homologous RNA was used, thereby confirming a specific binding of RAP to the 16S 5′ probe. In agreement with data from the binding curves, the competition experiments revealed an increased competition effect of the antisense probe compared with the trnN and psbD probes. Interestingly, a comparison of sense and antisense sequences elucidated a sequence of eight identical nucleotides corresponding to the 3′ end of the identified footprint (Supplemental Figure 5A). Hence, the antisense probe includes approximately half of the putative RAP binding site, and this most likely accounts for the somewhat higher affinity of RAP to this RNA compared with the other nonspecific RNAs. Little is known about the spatial organization of the process of rRNA maturation in chloroplasts. So far, evidence derives from recent proteomic data from maize, which suggest that the nucleoid, the site of the chloroplast genome, and a region of DNA-RNA-protein assembly is the major location of ribosome assembly and rRNA processing in the chloroplast (CITATION). We therefore attempted to determine whether RAP is targeted to chloroplasts and to determine its suborganellar localization. For this purpose, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was fused to the C-terminal end of RAP and transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) protoplasts under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. As shown in Figure 7, the fusion protein accumulated in distinct spots overlapping the chlorophyll autofluorescence of the chloroplasts. Furthermore, the RAP-GFP signal was colocalized with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)–stained nucleoid DNA, indicating its association with the nucleoids and thus supporting the idea that the nucleoid is the site of 16S rRNA maturation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (wild-type) and the rap-1 T-DNA line (SAIL_1223_C10; Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library T-DNA collection; CITATION) were grown on soil under controlled greenhouse conditions (70 to 90 μmol m−2 s−1, 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles). T-DNA insertion lines homozygous for rap-1 were identified by PCR using gene-specific (P1m 5′-TTAAGGGTCAAGAGATTGCTC-3′; P2, 5′-AATCAAGCCCTGTACTTATAAGAA-3′) and T-DNA–specific (LB1, 5′-GCCTTTTCAGAAATGGATAAATAGCCTTGCTTCC-3′) primers. For mutant complementation, the RAP cDNA was cloned into the vector pH2GW7 using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) to create the construct RAP/pH2GW7 (CITATION). Homozygous rap-1 plants were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 containing the construct RAP/pH2GW7 by the floral dip method (CITATION; CITATION). The maximum quantum yield of PSII of single leaves was calculated from the Fv/Fm measured with a FluorCam 800 MF (Photon Systems Instruments) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. In vivo radioactive 35S labeling of thylakoid proteins was performed as described by CITATION using five Arabidopsis leaves each from the wild type or the rap-1 mutant, harvested at the 12-leaf rosette stage (of the wild type). Frozen leaves from 3-week-old plants were ground in liquid nitrogen, and RNA was extracted using TriReagent (Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA gel blot analysis of total RNA from rap-1 and wild-type plants was performed using standard methods. Specific transcripts were detected with digoxigenin-labeled PCR products. To express the recombinant Arabidopsis RAP protein (rRAP), a cDNA sequence encoding amino acids 79 to 671 was inserted into the plasmid pMAL-c5x (New England Biolabs). Expression was performed in Escherichia coli Rosetta cells (Novagen) by induction with 0.5 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside for 3 h at 30°C. Purification of the recombinant protein was performed according to the New England Biolabs protocol for purification of MBP-tagged recombinant proteins, including the removal of the MBP tag by proteolytic digestion with factor Xa. Recombinant RBP40 was expressed as previously described by CITATION. UV cross-linking experiments were performed essentially as described by CITATION. The primers T7 top strand (5′-atgtaatacgactcactataggg-3′) and rrn16 5′ bottom (5′-tacattatgctgagtgatatcccTCGCTTGAGGTACGCTTATACTTCGCGTACCTATGTTCAATACTGAAC-3′) were annealed to create a DNA template for in vitro synthesis of 5′ pre-16S rRNA. The template contained the T7 promoter (sequence in lowercase letters). Hybridized primers were transcribed in vitro using T7 RNA polymerase and digested with DNase I (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Reactions were extracted with phenol-chloroform and ethanol precipitated. Binding reactions were performed at room temperature for 5 min and contained 20 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.8, 5 mM MgCl2, 60 mM KCl, 500 ng protein, and 100 kcpm of 32P-labeled RNA probe. Protein-bound RNA probes were UV cross-linked (1 J/cm2), and nonbound 32P-RNA probes were digested with 10 units of RNase One (Promega) for 20 min at 37°C. Samples were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by phosphor imaging. Aliquots (2 μg) of total leaf RNA were used for primer extension reactions according to standard protocols (CITATION). The oligonucleotide (PE rrn16 coding 5′-GGGCAGGTTCTTACGCGT-3′) and the marker (GeneRuler Low Range DNA Ladder; Thermo Scientific) were end-labeled with [γ-32P]ATP (Hartmann Analytic) using T4 polynucleotide kinase (New England Biolabs). Unincorporated nucleotides were removed with the QIAquick nucleotide removal kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Primer extensions were performed at 55°C with Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen), and the products were fractionated on 6% polyacrylamide sequencing gels and analyzed by phosphor imaging. For RNase protection assays, probes were transcribed and radiolabeled in vitro as described above using the following annealed primer pairs: probe 1 sRNA 16rrn5′-1neu forward 5′-taatacgactcactatagggTCATTCCAAGTCGTGGCTTGTATCCATGCGCTTCATATTC-3′/sRNA 16rrn5′-1neu reverse 5′-attatgctgagtgatatcccAGTAAGGTTCAGTATTGAACATAGGTACGCGAAGTATAAG-3′; probe 2 sRNA 16rrn5′-2 forward 5′-taatacgactcactatagggCAGATGCTTCTTCCTTCGATATTCATTACGTTGATACTTA-3′/sRNA 16rrn5′-2 reverse 5′-attatgctgagtgatatcccGTCTACGAAGAAGGAAGCTATAAGTAATGCAACTATGAAT-3′; probe 3 sRNA 16rrn3′ forward 5′-taatacgactcactatagggGAAAAGTCCCTCTCGATTACGAAGAACCCATAAATCCAAA-3′/sRNA 16rrn3′ reverse 5′-attatgctgagtgatatcccCTTTTCAGGGAGAGCTAATGCTTCTTGGGTATTTAGGTTT-3′. The T7 promoter sequence is given in lowercase letters. Probes were gel purified and amounts equivalent to 1 to 5 × 104 cpm were hybridized to 2-µg aliquots of total RNA in hybridization buffer (1.5 M KCl, 0.1 M Tris, pH 8.3, and 10 mM EDTA) at 42°C. RNase A and RNase T1 were added to the hybridization reactions to final concentrations of 200 µg/mL or 5000 units/mL, respectively, and incubated for 45 min at 37°C. Nucleic acids were ethanol precipitated, electrophoresed on 12% sequencing gels, and analyzed by phosphor imaging. The RNA binding curves and the Kd value for the specific RNA were determined as described by CITATION. Binding reactions were performed at room temperature for 15 min and contained 20 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.8, 5 mM MgCl2, 60 mM KCl, 0.5 mg/mL heparin, and 6 pM of the indicated 32P-labeled RNA probe. To generate templates for in vitro transcription of RNAs the primer T7 top strand (5′-atgtaatacgactcactataggg-3′) was annealed with rrn16 5′ bottom (5′-tacattatgctgagtgatatcccTCGCTTGAGGTACGCTTATACTTCGCGTACCTATGTTCAATACTGAAC-3′), rrn16 5′ antisense (5′-tacattatgctgagtgatatcccAGCGAACTCCATGCGAATATGAAGCGCATGGATACAAGTATGACTTG-3′), psbD (5′-tacattatgctgagtgatatcccTTGTAATTCCACAAGCCTTTACCAACTTCATCTACTTATCCTCCTAGC-3′), or trnN (5′-tacattatgctgagtgatatcccGTACCCAACTCTTGCCCTTAACTTGAGATACTCTAGATTAGAGGGCAA-3′). RNA was in vitro transcribed as described above and probes were gel purified according to CITATION. Molarities of RNA probes were calculated based on the quantitation of incorporated 32P-labeled UTP using a Mini Monitor G-M tube (Mini Instruments). Further steps of the filter binding assays were performed as described for the Kd value determination by CITATION. Results were quantified using ImageQuantTL (GE Healthcare). For competition experiments, reactions containing rRAP (600 nM) and a 32P-labeled fragment of the pre-16S 5′ region (6 pM) premixed with increasing amounts of cold competitor RNA were incubated in binding buffer (20 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.8, 5 mM MgCl2, and 60 mM KCl) at room temperature for 15 min. RNA in vitro transcription (competitor RNAs with 1/1000 of [32P]UTP compared with the labeled RNA probe), purification, quantification, and subsequent steps were performed as described for the binding curves and above. The Arabidopsis RAP cDNA was cloned into the vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION) using the Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Transient expression of the corresponding RAP-GFP construct was achieved by Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration of 4-week-old tobacco leaves. To this end, 30 mL of cultures of AGL-1 agrobacteria, previously transformed with the RAP-GFP construct, were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in induction medium (10 mM MES/KOH, pH 6, 10 mM MgCl2, and 200 µM acetosyringone). Following incubation at 28°C for 2 h at 75 rpm, cells were resuspended in 5% Suc containing 200 μM acetosyringone, and tobacco leaves were infiltrated with the cell suspension at OD600 = 0.7. Afterwards, plants were kept in the greenhouse for 3 d, and protoplasts were isolated according to CITATION. GFP fluorescence was detected at 672 to 750 nm and chlorophyll autofluorescence monitored at 503 to 542 nm by laser scanning microscopy (Leica TCS SP5/DM 6000B, argon laser, excitation wavelength of 488 nm). For DNA staining, protoplasts were incubated for 10 min with 1 μg/mL DAPI and directly examined with a UV laser (excitation wavelength 405 nm/ detection at 423 to 490 nm). All images were processed with Leica SAF Lite software (Leica). The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for RAP is At2g31890. DNA sequence data from alignment in Figure 8 can be found in the GenBank data library under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis (AP000423.1), Physcomitrella patens (AP005672), Oryza sativa (JN861110), Populus trichocarpa (AC208093), Zea mays (AY928077), Spinacia oleracea (AJ400848), Hordeum vulgare (EF115541), Brachypodium distachyon (EU325680), Vitis vinifera (DQ424856), and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (BK000554.2). Protein sequence data from alignment in Supplemental Figure 1 can be found in the GenBank data library under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis (AEC08600.1), P. trichocarpa (XP_002331644), Z. mays (DAA52984.1), and O. sativa (NP_001050400.1). The P. patens sequence was obtained from the cosmoss genome browser (Pp1s157_38G2, www.cosmoss.org). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Alignment and Targeting Predictions for RAP and Its Orthologs in Higher Plants and Moss. Supplemental Figure 2. PCR Analysis of rap-1 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. Distribution of Footprints within the 16S rRNA Precursor. Supplemental Figure 4. Integrity of Probes Used for RNA Binding Assays in Figure 6. Supplemental Figure 5. Formation of a Potential Stem Loop Structure at the 16S rRNA Precursor 5′ End. Supplemental References.
