!~ABS~! During initial spliceosome assembly, SF1 binds to intron branch points and interacts with U2 snRNP auxiliary factor 65 (U2AF65). Here, we present evidence indicating that AtSF1, the Arabidopsis SF1 homolog, interacts with AtU2AF65a and AtU2AF65b, the Arabidopsis U2AF65 homologs. A mutant allele of AtSF1 (At5g51300) that contains a T–DNA insertion conferred pleiotropic developmental defects, including early flowering and abnormal sensitivity to abscisic acid. An AtSF1 promoter-driven GUS reporter assay showed that AtSF1 promoter activity was temporally and spatially altered, and that full AtSF1 promoter activity required a significant proportion of the coding region. DNA chip analyses showed that only a small proportion of the transcriptome was altered by more than twofold in either direction in the AtSF1 mutant. Expression of the mRNAs of many heat shock proteins was more than fourfold higher in the mutant strain; these mRNAs were among those whose expression was increased most in the mutant strain. An RT–PCR assay revealed an altered alternative splicing pattern for heat shock transcription factor HsfA2 (At2g26150) in the mutant; this altered splicing is probably responsible for the increased expression of the target genes induced by HsfA2. Altered alternative splicing patterns were also detected for the transcripts of other genes in the mutant strain. These results suggest that AtSF1 has functional similarities to its yeast and metazoan counterparts.
!~RES~! The arginine-serine rich domain (RS) region of SF1 interacts with the UHM (RRM3) of U2AF65 (Rain et al., CITATION; Thickman et al., CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome is predicted to encode a single SF1 homolog and four U2AF65 homologs (Lorković and Barta, CITATION; Wang and Brendel, CITATION). Only two of these homologs, AtU2AF65a and AtU2AF65b, have a UHM domain. A GST pull-down assay showed that AtU2AF65a interacts with AtSF1 (Figure 1). Importantly, RRM3 (UHM) alone was not sufficient for this interaction. Furthermore, the interaction between AtSF1 and AtU2AF65a required both RRM2 and RRM3. We were unable to obtain the full-length AtU2AF65b protein; however, the truncated protein containing RRM2 and RRM3 (UHM) interacted with AtSF1, suggesting that AtU2AF65b also interacts with AtSF1. This interaction is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), as the rice counterparts of AtSF1 and AtU2AF65 interacted in vitro and in yeast cells (Figure S1). In tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaf epidermis, green fluorescent signals from AtU2AF65a–GFP and AtU2AF65b–GFP were observed in the nucleus (Figure 2a). BiFC analysis showed that AtSF1 also interacts with AtU2AF65a and AtU2AF65b (Figure 2b). These results indicate that plant AtSF1 and AtU2AF65 interact with each other, similar to their yeast and metazoan counterparts. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Three SALK lines (SALK_009238, SALK_062177 and SALK_050877) were obtained to isolate homozygous T–DNA insertion mutants of an Arabidopsis SF1 homolog, At5g51300 (Figure 3). These lines were renamed atsf1–1, atsf1–2 and atsf1–3, respectively. PCR and DNA sequencing were performed to confirm the T–DNA insertion sites (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To examine the expression of AtSF1 transcripts in these homozygous lines, RT–PCR was performed using primer sets that spanned the T–DNA insertion sites in atsf1–1 and atsf1–2. PCR fragments of the expected sizes were detected, but no amplification was observed for the regions spanning the T–DNA insertion sites (Figure 3b). Therefore, Northern blot analysis was performed to evaluate the presence of AtSF1-specific transcripts in these homozygous lines (Figure 3c). Similar amounts of AtSF1-specific transcripts were detectable in atsf1–1 and atsf1–3, but the transcript from the atsf1–1 line appeared slightly shorter than the wild-type transcript. However, no transcript was detectable in the atsf1–2 line, even after a much longer exposure, indicating that the detected RT–PCR product is presumably from the small amount of AtSF1 transcripts present in the mutant. No RT–PCR product corresponding to the region downstream of the T–DNA insertion site was detectable in the atsf1–2 mutant, suggesting that the AtSF1 transcript is truncated in this line (Figure 3d). The homozygous atsf1–2 line had smaller leaves and shorter stems, hypocotyls and roots, but the heterozygous line did not, suggesting that the abnormal phenotype is caused by a recessive mutation (Figure 4). However, the homozygous atsf1–1 and atsf1–3 lines did not show any noticeable abnormal phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] In addition to dwarfism, the atsf1–2 mutant showed slightly early flowering, similar to the abh1 mutant, and abnormal phyllotaxy in the inflorescence, similar to the se–1 mutant, but it did not exhibit serrated leaves (Figure 4) (Clarke et al., CITATION; Hugouvieux et al., CITATION; Prigge and Wagner, CITATION; Bezerra et al., CITATION). Considering that the yeast and metazoan SF1 proteins are essential for viability, the phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant is relatively weak. This weak phenotype may be due to residual AtSF1 activity in the atsf1–2 mutant and/or its functional redundancy with other genes in Arabidopsis. However, the AtSF1 gene is predicted to be a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome (Wang and Brendel, CITATION). At3g32940 encodes a KH domain that is very similar to that of AtSF1, and its best protein match is AtSF1, as determined by the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?id=39507&type=locus), although the overall sequence similarity between these two proteins is low. Therefore, we tested whether the protein encoded by At3g32940 was functionally redundant with AtSF1. RNAi lines targeting At3g32940 did not show an abnormal phenotype under normal growth conditions, and the protein encoded by this gene did not interact with AtU2AF65, indicating that this protein is not a functional paralog of AtSF1 (Figure S2). These results suggest that SF1 is dispensable for viability in Arabidopsis, unlike its yeast and metazoan counterparts (Abovich and Rosbash, CITATION; Mazroui et al., CITATION; Tanackovic and Krämer, CITATION; Shitashige et al., CITATION). To obtain insight into the mechanisms controlling the abnormal developmental phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant, we investigated the responses of the mutant to five plant hormones, as described by Hugouvieux et al. (CITATION). We examined the responses to ABA, auxin, cytokinin (kinetin), brassinosteroid and ethylene (using the precursor 1–aminocyclopropane-1–carboxylic acid) (Figure 5a,b). The atsf1–2 mutant showed hypersensitivity to exogenous ABA treatment during seed germination. Additionally, root growth was inhibited in the presence of auxin and kinetin to similar extents in wild-type and atsf1–2 mutant plants. Hypocotyl growth in the dark was also retarded to similar extents in the wild-type and atsf1–2 mutant plants in the presence of brassinosteroid and 1–aminocyclopropane-1–carboxylic acid (Figure 5c). These data indicate that, among the five hormones tested, the atsf1–2 mutant has an altered response to ABA specifically. [[FIGURE]] To identify the promoter region of the AtSF1 gene and to examine its spatial and temporal expression patterns, promoter GUS lines containing regions upstream of the AtSF1 start codon were constructed. Upstream sequences of three different lengths were first examined (−2, −4 and −7.5 kb). However, no GUS activity was detected in any tissue in these transgenic lines (Figure 6a). Therefore, the coding sequence of the AtSF1 gene was included. The entire or partial (600 bp) AtSF1 coding sequence was added to the 2400 bp upstream region to create promoter–GUS lines (−2.42 kb–AtSF1–GUS, construct 4; −2.42 kb–600 bp of AtSF1–GUS, construct 6). GUS activity was observed only in the tissues of transgenic plants harboring the entire coding region (the −2.42 kb–AtSF1–GUS construct; Figure 6a). These results indicate that the promoter activity of the AtSF1 gene requires more than 600 nucleotides downstream from its initiation codon. As shown in Figure 6(b), strong GUS activity was detected in germinating seeds and all parts of young seedlings. During the reproductive phase, GUS expression was still strong in leaves and flowers, but it was not detectable or only very weakly detectable in stems, pedicels and siliques. In siliques, GUS activity was not detectable at the centre. [[FIGURE]] The GUS staining pattern of the AtSF1 promoter–GUS line construct 4 appeared to be generally similar to that of an AtU2AF35 promoter–GUS line (Wang and Brendel, CITATION). Expression of the AtSF1 gene was also examined by RT–PCR analysis of RNA samples isolated from various plant tissues. The AtSF1 gene was expressed in all the tissues examined (Figure 6c). To confirm that the phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant is caused by the mutation in the AtSF1 gene, a genetic rescue experiment was performed in which the atsf1–2 mutant was transformed with the AtSF1 cDNA under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (35S::AtSF1/atsf1–2) or its own promoter (ProAtSF1::AtSF1/atsf1–2). Both transgenic lines displayed phenotypes similar to wild-type plants, indicating that the phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant is indeed due to the mutation in the AtSF1 gene (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] To investigate which genes are responsible for the phenotypes of the atsf1–2 mutant, a microarray analysis was performed using Affymetrix Arabidopsis ATH1 GeneChip profiling. Because of a nuclear pre-mRNA turnover pathway, splicing failure results in a general reduction in mRNA levels without corresponding accumulation of unspliced pre-mRNA (Houseley and Tollervey, CITATION). Furthermore, mutations in various core spliceosomal components have revealed that the spliceosome is not involved to the same extent in all pre-mRNA splicing (Park et al., CITATION; Pleiss et al., CITATION). Therefore, we expected that pre-mRNA would be barely detectable, and that transcript levels would be differentially affected in the atsf1–2 mutant. Furthermore, the alteration of transcript levels in the atsf1–2 mutant may be due to direct and indirect effects of splicing defects. In particular, increased transcript levels are mostly due to the indirect effects of failure to splice certain transcripts. Although the atsf1–2 mutant shows various developmental defects throughout its life cycle, we decided to first examine its transcriptome at the young seedling stage. For transcription profiling, we isolated total RNA from 9-day-old seedlings of wild-type and atsf1–2 mutant plants grown on MS plates under long-day conditions. Only 301 genes on the chip showed a significant (at least twofold) decrease (185) or increase (116) in expression levels in the atsf1–1 mutant compared with the wild-type (P ≤ 0.05). Many heat shock protein-encoding genes were at the top of the list of genes whose expression levels were increased by more than fourfold. The AtSF1 gene exhibited the greatest reduction among all the genes with decreased expression in the mutant, and expression of all other genes on the list decreased by less than sevenfold. From these genes, we selected 69 that exhibited increased expression and 124 that showed decreased expression. We then chose approximately 30 genes from each pool based on whether their functions were predicted or known previously. These genes are listed in Tables S1 and S2. Although expression of the At2g29090 gene (CYP707A2) was only 1.8-fold lower in the mutant, this gene was included in Table S1 because it encodes cytochrome P450, which is involved in ABA catabolism. The expression levels of total 15 genes were confirmed using RT–PCR (Figure 8a,c). [[FIGURE]] We observed that the expression levels of the 18 genes showing the greatest reduction in transcript levels in the abh1 mutant were not significantly altered in the atsf1–2 mutant (Hugouvieux et al., CITATION). This result suggests that the atsf1-2 mutant exhibits ABA hypersensitivity during seed germination probably due to altered expression in other genes except the 18 genes. No significant decreases were observed in the expression of genes involved in ABA synthesis or ABA signaling. However, the expression levels of two genes (CYP707A3 and CYP707A2) encoding ABA 8′–hydroxylases, which are key enzymes in ABA catabolism, were reduced in the atsf1–2 mutant (Table S1). This enzyme is a cytochrome P450 encoded by the CYP707A family of genes in Arabidopsis; the cyp707a2 mutant exhibits delayed germination without stratification. Germination of the cyp707a2 mutant, but not that of the cyp707a3 mutant, is inhibited by application of 0.5 μm ABA after stratification (Kushiro et al., CITATION). The phenotype of the cyp707a2 mutant in the ABA sensitivity assay was similar to that of the atsf1–2 mutant. Therefore, we used quantitative RT–PCR to examine the transcript levels of the CYP707A family genes CYP707A1–A4 in the atsf1–2 mutant during seed germination (Figure 8b). The transcript levels of the CYP707A1–A3 genes were reduced to <29% of the levels of the wild-type, but that of the A4 gene increased by approximately twofold. During seed imbibition with or without ABA, expression of CYP707A2 was greatly induced, but the other three genes showed only marginal or insignificant expression (Kushiro et al., CITATION). Therefore, the reduced expression of CYP707A2 may contribute to the ABA-hypersensitive phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant during germination. In conclusion, we were unable to identify genes that are clearly responsible for the phenotype of the atsf1–2 mutant in our transcriptome analysis. Among the 116 genes with increased expression in the atsf1–2 mutant, only 12 show a more than twofold increase in expression in the sta1–1 mutant (Lee et al., CITATION). Many heat shock protein-encoding genes and the ascorbate peroxidase 2 gene are highly expressed in the atsf1–2 mutant, whereas only two heat shock protein-encoding genes, i.e. mitochondrial small heat shock protein 23.5 (At5g51440) and mitochondrial heat shock protein 70-1 (At4g37910), show a more than twofold increase in expression in the sta1–1 mutant (Table S2) (Lee et al., CITATION). The transcript levels of the genes encoding a heat shock transcription factor (HsfA2, At2g26150) and six heat shock proteins (At4g10250, At5g12030, At5g12020, At1g52560, At1g53540 and At4g25200) were examined further using a semi-quantitative RT–PCR assay in wild-type and atsf1–2 mutant plants. Among the six heat shock proteins, At5g12020 and At4g25200 are not direct targets of the heat shock transcription factor HsfA2 (Nishizawa et al., CITATION). Consistent with the microarray data, RT–PCR showed that the expression levels of these seven genes were higher in the atsf1–2 mutants than in wild-type plants (Figure 8c and Table S2). This result suggests that the increased expression of the four above-mentioned HsfA2 target genes in the mutant is due to the increased level of functional HsfA2 transcript. Many heat shock proteins function as chaperones in both preventing protein aggregation and refolding mis-folded proteins (Voellmy and Boellmann, CITATION). According to Sugio et al. (CITATION), induction of the genes encoding two heat shock factors (HsfA2 and HsfA7) and the accumulation of alternatively spliced HsfA2 RNA (HSFA2–II) are signatures of the cytosolic protein response in Arabidopsis. The RT–PCR analysis showed that expression of the HSFA2–II splice variant was lower in the atsf1–2 mutant than in wild type (Col–0), while the HsfA2 transcript level was higher (Figure 8c), suggesting that AtSF1 is necessary for the alternative splicing of HsfA2 pre-mRNA. Pre-mRNA splicing defects generate unspliced transcripts, which are removed by the RNA degradation system in the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Houseley and Tollervey, CITATION). Therefore, the main effect of mutations in spliceosome components is a reduction in mature mRNA levels but not a concomitant accumulation of unspliced transcripts. Therefore, among the genes with decreased expression in the mutant, we searched for genes whose pre-mRNAs were detected by RT–PCR. The SEN1 gene (At4g35770) (Figure 8a) was suitable for this purpose because it produces three alternatively spliced transcripts, and RT–PCR analysis detected these transcripts and the corresponding pre-mRNA (Figure 9a). These PCR products were sequenced to confirm their identities. The PCR products for two transcripts co-migrated due to their small size difference (five nucleotides). In the atsf1–2 mutant, the levels of these co-migrating splice variants were lower, but the levels of the other splice variant and the corresponding pre-mRNA were higher (Figure 9a). Therefore, ratio among these splice variants was altered, suggesting that AtSF1 is involved in alternative splicing of SEN1 pre-mRNA. Next, we wished to determine whether this abnormal splicing pattern was unique to the atsf1–2 mutant. We therefore examined the alternative splicing pattern in a different splicing factor mutant, the sta1–1 mutant, which encodes a defective U5 snRNP protein (Lee et al., CITATION). The altered splicing pattern seen in the atsf1–2 mutant was not observed, although the levels of the splice variants were slightly lower (Figure 9a). [[FIGURE]] Alternatively spliced mRNA isoforms that contain a premature termination codon are degraded by the nonsense-mediated decay pathway in mammals (McGlincy and Smith, CITATION). We examined whether the levels of alternatively spliced mRNA isoforms of known Arabidopsis nonsense-mediated decay target genes were altered in the atsf1–2 mutant. The At5g62760 gene produces two transcripts: At5g62760.2, containing a premature termination codon, and At5g62760.1, which does not contain a premature termination codon (Hori and Watanabe, CITATION; Arciga-Reyes et al., CITATION). We also examined whether the relative ratio of these alternatively spliced transcripts was affected in the atsf1–2 and sta1–1 mutants. RT–PCR showed that the relative ratio of the two transcripts was reversed in the atsf1–2 mutant, but not in the sta1–1 mutant as compared with wild type (Figure 9b). Taken together, our results suggest that Arabidopsis SF1, similar to human SF1, is required for alternative splicing of at least some transcripts (Corioni et al., CITATION).
!~MM~! Most Arabidopsis plants used in this study were in the Col background, unless stated otherwise. Arabidopsis plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) at 23°C with a relative humidity of 60%, as described previously (Lee et al., CITATION). The atsf1–1 (SALK_009238), atsf1–2 (SALK_062177) and atsf1–3 (SALK_050177) mutants were obtained from the SALK T–DNA mutant collection (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, https://abrc.osu.edu/). Homozygous atsf1–1, atsf1–2 and atsf1–3 lines were verified by PCR using gene-specific and T–DNA-specific primers (Table S3). The sensitivity of the plants to hormones was determined as described previously (Hugouvieux et al., CITATION). PCR was performed to amplify the DNA fragments of interest. The amplified DNA fragments were then cloned into the appropriate plasmids. The primers used are listed in Table S3. Agrobacterium strain GV3101 was transformed with the gene constructs, and then used to generate transgenic plants in the Col or atsf1–2 mutant background. The transgenic plants were first selected using appropriate antibiotics or herbicides, and then verified by PCR-based genotyping. The GST pull-down assay was performed as described previously (Jang et al., CITATION,CITATION). The full-length and truncated forms of two Arabidopsis U2AF65 isoforms, a and b (At4g36690 and At1g60900), were cloned into the pGEX5X–1 vector to generate GST-tagged proteins. The GST-tagged proteins were then incubated with 35S-labeled AtSF1 proteins. The bound AtSF1 proteins were eluted and detected by autoradiography. The subcellular localization of GFP-tagged proteins and BiFC analysis were performed as described by Bracha-Drori et al. (CITATION). To investigate the promoter of AtSF1, several GUS fusion plasmids were constructed, and GUS activity was analyzed. All of the constructs were sub-cloned from Arabidopsis genomic DNA and cDNA into the pBI101 vector using specific primers and enzyme sites (Lee et al., CITATION, Table S3). GUS staining was performed as described by Chen et al. (CITATION). For genetic rescue of the atsf1–2 mutant, the construct showing GUS promoter activity was used (−2.42 kb–AtSF1–GUS; construct 4, Figure 6). Construct 4 lacking the GUS gene was also cloned into the pBI101 vector and introduced into the atsf1–2 mutant (ProAtSF1::AtSF1/atsf1–2, Figure 7). The CaMV 35S promoter was also fused to the full-length cDNA of AtSF1, and this construct was introduced into the mutant (35S::AtSF1/atsf1–2, Figure 7). Total RNA was extracted from whole plants or the appropriate plant materials using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.lifetechnologies.com/order/catalog/product/15596026). RT–PCR analysis was performed as described previously (Jang et al., CITATION,CITATION). The primer sets used in this analysis are listed in Table S3. Thirty micrograms of total RNA were used for Northern blot analysis, and 32P-labeled AtSF1 DNA was used as probes as described previously (Lee et al., CITATION). For determination of the spatial and temporal expression patterns of the AtSF1 gene, various plant tissues (shoot apex, flower, stem, cauline leaf, rosette leaf and root) and 10-day-old whole seedlings were collected for total RNA isolation, and RT–PCR analysis was then performed. For DNA microarray analysis, total RNA was isolated from 9-day-old seedlings of wild-type and atsf1–2 mutant plants grown on MS plates under long-day conditions. The RNA was purified an RNeasy purification kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/products/catalog/sample-technologies/rna-sample-technologies/total-rna/rneasy-mini-kit). RNA labeling and hybridization to the Affymetrix ATH1 (https://www.affymetrix.com/) Genome Array were performed by DNALINK (Seoul, Korea). Each experiment was repeated using three biological replicates. The final data were processed using the Affymetrix software package by DNALINK, and deposited in the National Center for Biotechnology Information GEO database under accession number GSE48114.
