!~ABS~! Post-translational protein modification plays a pivotal role in the regulation and specific turnover of proteins. One of these important modifications is the ubiquitination of target proteins, which can occur at distinct cellular compartments. At the plasma membrane, ubiquitination regulates the internalization and thus trafficking of membrane proteins such as receptors and channels. The Arabidopsis plant U-box (PUB) armadillo repeat (PUB-ARM) ubiquitin ligase SAUL1 (SENESCENCE-ASSOCIATED UBIQUITIN LIGASE1) is part of the ubiquitination machinery at the plasma membrane. In contrast to most other PUB-ARM proteins, SAUL1 carries additional C-terminal ARM repeats responsible for plasma membrane-association. Here, we demonstrated that the C-terminal ARM repeat domain is also essential and sufficient to mediate plasma membrane-association of the closest Arabidopis paralog AtPUB43. We investigated targeting of PUB-ARM ubiquitin ligases of different plant species to find out whether plasma membrane-association of SAUL1-type PUB-ARM proteins is conserved. Phylogenetic analysis identified orthologs of SAUL1 in these plant species. Intracellular localization of transiently expressed GFP fusion proteins revealed that indeed plasma membrane-association due to additional C-terminal ARM repeats represents a conserved feature of SAUL1-type proteins. Analyses of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing N-terminally masked or truncated proteins revealed that interfering with the function of SAUL1-type proteins resulted in severe growth defects. Our results suggest an ancient origin of ubiquitination at the plasma membrane in the evolution of land plants.
!~RES~! Plasma membrane-association was observed for the two SAUL1 paralogs AtPUB42 and AtPUB43, but not for any other member of the Arabidopsis PUB-ARM protein family (Drechsel et al., CITATION). For SAUL1 it has been demonstrated that this specific localization depends on the additional ARM repeat domain in the C-terminus that is unique to SAUL1, AtPUB42, and AtPUB43. The domain structure of AtPUB43 is schematically depicted in Figure CITATION. To test whether the C-terminal ARM repeat domain is also essential for plasma membrane-association of AtPUB43, we analyzed the localization of fusion proteins between GFP and truncated AtPUB43 proteins by confocal laser scanning microscopy on transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts. As for SAUL1, deletion of the N-terminal part of AtPUB43 in AtPUB43ΔARM1−6-GFP proteins did not result in the loss of plasma membrane-association (Figure CITATION). This deletion protein, however, was not equally distributed in the plasma membrane, but occurred in large patches (Figures CITATION). A similar pattern has been observed for SAUL1 proteins with truncated and/or masked N-terminus previously (Drechsel et al., CITATION). In a next step, either ARM repeats 7–12 or 10–12 were deleted in AtPUB43. Both proteins, AtPUB43ΔARM7−12-GFP and AtPUB43ΔARM10−12-GFP, were localized to the cytoplasm and not to the plasma membrane (Figures CITATION). These data indicated that indeed the C-terminal ARM repeat domain is essential and sufficient for plasma membrane-association of AtPUB43 and that this is a general feature of SAUL1-type E3 ubiquitin ligases. The analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing GFP-AtPUB43ΔARM1−6 showed that the C-terminus by itself had no effect on plant growth and development (Figure CITATION). To test whether masking the N-terminus of SAUL1-type proteins, which eventually leads to patchy distribution of the protein at the plasma membrane (Drechsel et al., CITATION and Figure CITATION), may affect growth and development, we analyzed CaMV35S::YFP-SAUL1 plants. Indeed, overexpression of YFP-SAUL1 fusion proteins resulted in a severe growth defect when compared to growth of wildtype plants (Figures CITATION). Involvement of C-terminal ARM repeats in plasma membrane-association of AtPUB43. (A) Schematic representation of the AtPUB43 protein domain structure. U-box and ARM repeats are depicted in blue and red, respectively. (B) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of an Arabidopsis leaf protoplast expressing AtPUB43ΔARM1−6-GFP fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was only detected at the plasma membrane. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (C) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of an Arabidopsis leaf protoplast expressing AtPUB43ΔARM1−6-GFP fusion proteins. The representative top-view showed that GFP signals and thus the AtPUB43ΔARM1−6-GFP fusion proteins were localized in membrane patches. (D) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of an Arabidopsis leaf protoplast expressing AtPUB43ΔARM7−12-GFP fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected in the cytosol. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (E) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of an Arabidopsis leaf protoplast expressing AtPUB43ΔARM10−12-GFP fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected in the cytosol. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (F) Growth phenotype of wildtype plants grown for 12 weeks in short-day conditions. Photon flux density was 80–100 μmol m−2 s−1. (G) Growth phenotype of CaMV35S::YFP-SAUL1 plants grown for 12 weeks in short-day conditions. Photon flux density was 80-100 μmol m−2 s−1. Localization of rice SAUL-type PUB-ARM proteins at the plasma membrane. (A) Localization of GFP-OsPUB23 fusion proteins at the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of GFP-OsPUB23 proteins depicted in green at the plasma membrane of protoplasts co-expressing GFP-OsPUB23 and AtINT4-RFP. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in blue. (B) Localization of AtINT4-RFP fusion proteins at the plasma membrane. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of AtINT4-RFP proteins depicted in red at the plasma membrane of protoplasts co-expressing GFP-OsPUB23 and AtINT4-RFP. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in blue. (C) Merged image of (A,B). Yellow signals derived from the overlap of green and red fluorescences from (A,B). (D) Bright filed image of the protoplast analyzed in (A–C). (E) Localization of GFP-OsPUB21.1 fusion proteins at the plasma membrane. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of GFP-OsPUB21.1 proteins depicted in green at the plasma membrane of transformed protoplasts. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (F) Localization of GFP-OsPUB21.2 fusion proteins at the plasma membrane. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of GFP-OsPUB21.1 proteins depicted in green in the cytosol of transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. Recently, the PUB-ARM protein family has been described in rice (Zeng et al., CITATION). Five members of this protein family, namely OsPUB21, OsPUB22, OsPUB23, OsPUB24, and OsPUB25 possess an elongated C-terminus and carry an additional C-terminal ARM repeat domain like their Arabidopsis orthologs. We investigated whether the rice SAUL1 orthologs were also associated to the plasma membrane. For that purpose, GFP-OsPUB23 fusion proteins were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts and their fluorescence analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. GFP fluorescence indicated plasma membrane-association of GFP-OsPUB23 (Figure CITATION). To confirm this localization, GFP-OsPUB23 was co-expressed with AtINT4-RFP. The AtINT4 inositol transport protein was localized to the plasma membrane as described previously (Figure CITATION, c.f. Schneider et al., CITATION). Merging green and red fluorescence of GFP-OsPUB23 and AtINT4-RFP, respectively, clearly showed that OsPUB23 is associated to the plasma membrane (Figures CITATION). When isolating the cDNA clone of OsPUB21, we not only found the long form OsPUB21.1, but also recovered the truncated OsPUB21.2 missing the additional C-terminal ARM repeat domain. Whereas GFP-OsPUB21.1 was also associated to the plasma membrane (Figure CITATION), GFP-OsPUB21.2 was not localized to the plasma membrane but to the cytoplasm (Figure CITATION). Masking the N-terminus of Os-PUB21.1 by GFP again resulted in patchy distribution at the plasma membrane (Figure CITATION). Indeed, rice SAUL1-type PUB-ARM proteins were associated to the plasma membrane and this localization was dependent on the elongated C-terminus carrying the additional ARM repeat domain. To test whether SAUL1-type PUB-ARM proteins with additional C-terminal ARM-repeats exist in other plants and in mosses, we were aiming to identify PUB-ARM proteins in Populus trichocarpa and in the moss Physcomitrella patens. For that purpose, we used the protein sequences of SAUL1, AtPUB42, and AtPUB43 including their elongated C-terminus to BLAST search the respective genomes on the phytozome website (www.phytozome.net). When using this approach to identify PUB-ARM proteins in rice, we could re-identify all PUB-ARM proteins that were recently published by Zeng et al. (CITATION). We therefore decided to follow this approach on P. trichocarpa and P. patens. In P. trichocarpa and P. patens, 50 and 31 PUB-ARM proteins were identified, respectively. Two multiple sequence alignments were applied for Bayesian phylogenetic analyses. The first alignment covered 2683 amino acid positions and included the full-length proteins. In the second alignment all gaps were removed, resulting in 210 positions. Both alignments gave very similar trees, which recovered the classes I–IV of PUB-ARM proteins, as defined by Zeng et al. (CITATION) (Figure CITATION; Supporting Figures CITATION, CITATION). SAUL1 and SAUL-like paralogs of Arabidopsis and rice are members of class IV. SAUL1 (AtPUB44) and AtPUB43 are closely related and form a common branch with three PUB-ARM proteins from rice (OsPUB23–25) and two from poplar (Pt0002s00910 and Pt0005s27480) (Figure CITATION). AtPUB42 is on a different branch within class IV and is related to rice OsPUB21 and 22, as well as two proteins of poplar (Pt0008s11210 and Pt0010s14630). Six proteins of the bryophyte P. patens are related to the clade of SAUL1-like proteins of the vascular plants. In addition, five proteins from P. trichocarpa and five from P. patens form a distinct clade within class IV, which is more distantly related to SAUL1. SAUL1 orthologs within the class IV proteins displayed sequences identities of more than 40%. Comparison of SAUL1 with class I–III PUB-ARM proteins revealed low identity scores of less than 26%. In all cases and in contrast to all other PUB-ARM proteins, SAUL1-type PUB-ARM proteins consist of a clearly higher number of amino acids due to their specific domain organization, namely their elongated C-terminus that contains additional ARM repeat domains. Based on these criteria, additional BLAST searches identified putative SAUL1-type PUB-ARM proteins in all land plants listed on the phytozome website, suggesting conservation in land plants (not shown). Phylogenetic relationship of PUB-ARM proteins of Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and moss. (A) Simplified Bayesian phylogenetic tree depicting the relationship among class I–IV PUB-ARM proteins, as defined by Zeng et al. (CITATION). The bar represents 0.5 PAM distance. The tree derived from the analysis of the 2683 amino acid alignment; the full tree in Supporting Figure CITATION. (B) Subtree of (A) depicting the relationship among class IV proteins, which include SAUL1-type proteins. Arabidopsis SAUL1 (AtPUB44) is highlighted in gray; the numbers at the nodes are Bayesian posterior probabilities. Two PUB-ARM proteins from each organism, one SAUL1-type and one without the additional C-terminal ARM repeat domain, were selected to investigate conservation of SAUL1-type plasma membrane-association in Populus trichocarpa and Physcomitrella patens. Confocal laser scanning microscopy on transformed Arabidopsis leaf cell protoplasts and tobacco leaf epidermal cells analyzed localization of GFP fusion proteins. The poplar SAUL1-type PUB-ARM protein Pt0005s27480 (POPTR_0005s27480) localized to the plasma membrane as indicated by GFP fluorescence of GFP-Pt0005s27480 (Figure CITATION) or Pt0005s27480-GFP (not shown) fusion proteins. In contrast, the same approach showed that the poplar PUB-ARM protein Pt0004s02840 (POPTR_0004s02840) that is lacking the C-terminal ARM repeat domain was localized to cytoplasm and nucleus (Figure CITATION and not shown). The same results were obtained in Physcomitrella patens. Whereas fusion proteins with the SAUL1-type PUB-ARM protein Pp1s3_414V6 were associated with the plasma membrane, the Pp1s67_203V6 protein that also does not contain the additional ARM repeat domain localized to cytoplasm and nucleus (Figures CITATION). To confirm localization of Pt0005s27480 and Pp1s3_414V6 at the plasma membrane, both GFP fusion proteins were co-expressed with the plasma membrane sugar transport protein UmSrt1 from the phytopathogenic fungus Ustilago maydis fused to RFP (Figures CITATION, CITATION). The UmSrt1 transport protein was localized to the plasma membrane as described previously (c.f. Drechsel et al., CITATION). Merging green and red fluorescence of GFP-Pt0005s27480 and RFP-UmSrt1 (Figure CITATION) or GFP-Pp1s3_414V6 and RFP-UmSrt1 (Figure CITATION) resulted in yellow signals and clearly showed that both SAUL1-type proteins are associated to the plasma membrane. Localization of SAUL-type PUB-ARM proteins from Populus trichocarpa at the plasma membrane. (A) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (top panel) and tobacco leaf epidermal cells (bottom panel) expressing GFP-Pt0005s27480 fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected at the plasma membrane in both cell types. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (B) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (top panel) and tobacco leaf epidermal cells (bottom panel) expressing GFP-Pt0004s02840 fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected in cytosol and nucleus in both cell types. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (C) Localization of GFP-Pt0005s27480 fusion proteins at the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of GFP-Pt0005s27480 proteins depicted in green (left) and RFP-UmSrt1 (middle) proteins depicted in red at the plasma membrane of protoplasts co-expressing GFP-Pt0005s27480 and RFP-UmSrt1. Merging both images resulted in yellow signals (right) derived from the overlap of green (GFP-Pt0005s27480) and red (RFP-UmSrt1) fluorescences. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in blue. Localization of SAUL-type PUB-ARM proteins from Physcomitrella patens at the plasma membrane. (A) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (top panel) and tobacco leaf epidermal cells (bottom panel) expressing GFP-Pp1s3_414V6 fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected at the plasma membrane in both cell types. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (B) Confocal analysis of fluorescence of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (top panel) and tobacco leaf epidermal cells (bottom panel) expressing GFP-Pp1s67_203V6 fusion proteins. GFP fluorescence depicted in green was detected in cytosol and nucleus in both cell types. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in red. (C) Localization of GFP-Pp1s3_414V6 fusion proteins at the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal laser scanning microscopy detected fluorescence of GFP-Pp1s3_414V6 proteins depicted in green (left) and RFP-UmSrt1 (middle) proteins depicted in red at the plasma membrane of protoplasts co-expressing GFP-Pp1s3_414V6 and RFP-UmSrt1. Merging both images resulted in yellow signals (right) derived from the overlap of green (GFP-Pp1s3_414V6) and red (RFP-UmSrt1) fluorescences. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence within the chloroplasts is depicted in blue.
!~MM~! For PCR amplification of DNA fragments, cDNAs were isolated from the aerial parts of young Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings grown on soil at long day-conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) at 22°C for 2 weeks, leaves of Populus trichocarpa plants grown on soil at long day-conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) for several months, Physcomitrella patens grown in sterile culture, and from Oryza sativa ssp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare leaf material from seedlings grown on soil in long day-conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) at 26°C for 4 weeks. Total RNA was isolated with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany). RT-PCRs were performed with the High Capacity RNA-to-cDNA Master Mix (Invitrogen). For generation of fusion proteins between full-length or truncated PUB-ARM proteins and GFP, the respective open reading frames were amplified by PCR from cDNA using the primer pairs listed in Supporting Table CITATION. The reverse primers harbored a wobble base to generate PCR fragments with or without a stop codon. The amplified fragments were cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany), verified by sequencing, and recombined into destination vectors pMDC43 (Curtis and Grossniklaus, CITATION) for GFP fusion to the N-terminus and pK7FWG2.0 (Karimi et al., CITATION) for fusion of GFP to the C-terminus. Protoplasts were isolated from fully expanded leaves of 3–4 week-old Arabidopsis plants grown on soil. Leaves were roughened using sandpaper, transferred to protoplasting buffer (500 mM sorbitol, 1 mM CaCl2, 0.03% pectolyase Y23, 0.75% cellulose YC and 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.6–6.0), and incubated in the dark at 22°C for 1.5 h with gentle agitation (60–75 rpm). Protoplasts were separated from undigested material by filtration through a 50 μm nylon mesh and sedimented by centrifugation for 8 min at 100 × g. The pellet was resuspended in MaMg buffer (400 mM sorbitol, 15 mM MgCl2, 5 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.6). Protoplast transformation was essentially performed as previously described (Abel and Theologis, CITATION). Transformed protoplasts were transferred into small petri dishes and incubated for 24 h in the dark at 22°C prior to analysis by confocal laser scanning microscopy as described previously (Drechsel et al., CITATION). For transient transformation of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (Deblaere et al., CITATION) harboring the respective DNA construct was grown at 29°C in LB supplemented with 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin to the stationary phase. Bacteria were sedimented by centrifugation at 5000 g for 15 min at room temperature and resuspended in infiltration buffer (10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MES, KOH pH5.7). Cells were infiltrated into the abaxial air spaces of 2–4-week-old N. benthamiana plants. GFP fluorescence was monitored by confocal laser scanning microscopy 24–48 h past infiltration as described previously (Drechsel et al., CITATION). A multiple sequence alignment of 150 PUB-ARM proteins from Arabidopsis (A. thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), poplar (Populus trichocarpa) and moss (Physcomitrella patens) was generated employing MAFFT 6 (Katoh et al., CITATION) with the E-INS-i routine and the BLOSUM 45 matrix at http://mafft.cbrc.jp/alignment/server/. In the first phylogenetic analysis, the full alignment (2683 amino acid positions) was used, in a second approach a reduced alignment without any gap position (210 amino acids positions) was employed. Bayesian phylogenetic analyses were performed with MrBayes 3.1.2 (Huelsenbeck and Ronquist, CITATION). We assumed the WAG model of amino acid evolution (Whelan and Goldman, CITATION) with gamma distribution of substitution rates. Metropolis-coupled Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMCMC) sampling was performed with one cold and three heated chains. Two independent runs were performed in parallel for 5 million generations each. Starting trees were random and the trees were sampled every 1000th generation. Posterior probabilities were estimated on the final 4000 trees (burnin = 1000).
