!~ABS~! Programmed cell death (PCD) is a genetically determined process in all multicellular organisms. Plant PCD is effected by a unique group of papain-type cysteine endopeptidases (CysEP) with a C-terminal KDEL endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal (KDEL CysEP). KDEL CysEPs can be stored as pro-enzymes in ER-derived endomembrane compartments and are released as mature CysEPs in the final stages of organelle disintegration. KDEL CysEPs accept a wide variety of amino acids at the active site, including the glycosylated hydroxyprolines of the extensins that form the basic scaffold of the cell wall. In Arabidopsis, three KDEL CysEPs (AtCEP1, AtCEP2, and AtCEP3) are expressed. Cell- and tissue-specific activities of these three genes suggest that KDEL CysEPs participate in the abscission of flower organs and in the collapse of tissues in the final stage of PCD as well as in developmental tissue remodeling. We observed that AtCEP1 is expressed in response to biotic stress stimuli in the leaf. atcep1 knockout mutants showed enhanced susceptibility to powdery mildew caused by the biotrophic ascomycete Erysiphe cruciferarum. A translational fusion protein of AtCEP1 with a three-fold hemaglutinin-tag and the green fluorescent protein under control of the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) rescued the pathogenesis phenotype demonstrating the function of AtCEP1 in restriction of powdery mildew. The spatiotemporal AtCEP1-reporter expression during fungal infection together with microscopic inspection of the interaction phenotype suggested a function of AtCEP1 in controlling late stages of compatible interaction including late epidermal cell death. Additionally, expression of stress response genes appeared to be deregulated in the interaction of atcep1 mutants and E. cruciferarum. Possible functions of AtCEP1 in restricting parasitic success of the obligate biotrophic powdery mildew fungus are discussed.
!~RES~! Two AtCEP1 insertion lines, SAIL_158_B06 and SALK_013036, have the T-DNA insertion within the 3rd Exon. Both lines were homozygous, and RT-PCR using primers that amplified the coding region (spanning the T-DNA) confirmed the knock out of AtCEP1 (Figure CITATION). Wild type Col0 plants and the two homozygous atcep1 knock out mutants were inoculated with conidia of the powdery mildew fungus E. cruciferarum, an obligate biotroph that requires living cells for growth. Five week old plants were inoculated for evaluation of disease progression. Arabidopsis susceptibility to E. cruciferarum was scored by visual examination of the whole plant 7, 9, 11, and 13 days after inoculation. Both independent atcep1 knock out mutants lines exhibited the same phenotype, that is enhanced susceptibility to E. cruciferarum as compared to the parental wild type, as can be seen by visual examination of the whole plant for scoring the leaf area covered by powdery mildew symptoms (Figure CITATION, Supplemental Figure CITATION, see also below). Both AtCEP1 mutants SAIL_158_B06 and SALK_013036, harboring the T-DNA insertion in the 3. exon represents loss of function mutants. No corresponding transcript could be amplified by RT-PCR using primers that comprise the complete coding region from 7 days old seedlings, whereas the parent Col-0 wild type expressed the gene. wt, RT-PCR on wild type RNA; wt gen, PCR on wild type genomic DNA. Homozygous atcep1 knock out mutants with a T-DNA insertion in the 3. Exon exhibit enhanced susceptibility upon leaf inoculation with the biotrophic fungus Erysiphe cruciferarum. Leaves are shown 11 days post low density inoculation. We constructed the fusion genes under the control of the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter for functional (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) and non-functional (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL) reporter constructs including EGFP with and without the mature AtCEP1 subunit (Figure CITATION, Supplemental Figures CITATION, CITATION, see Materials and Methods). The final plasmid constructs were sequenced and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens for subsequent transformation into atcep1 knock out plants SAIL_158_B06 in order to obtain plants expressing the functional or non-functional reporter proteins, respectively. Eight homozygous transformants for each construct were obtained. Three transformants for each construct exhibiting the highest fluorescence were chosen for further pathogen inoculation. Schematic representation of the functional reporter protein pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL and the non-functional reporter protein pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL expressed under the control of the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter. Both constructs were transformed into atcep1 knock out mutant line SAIL_158_B06. Pre-pro-RcCysEP is shown for comparison. Red arrows indicate proven or predicted protein cleavage sites. Five week old plants were inoculated with the powdery mildew fungus E. cruciferarum and were scored for disease progression by visual examination of the whole plant 9, 11, and 13 days post inoculation: Plants were distributed in the three categories of susceptibility with less than 30%, 30–60%, and more than 60% of infected leaf area (Figure CITATION). Significantly more plants of the atcep1 knock out line SAIL_158_B06 were classified in the category with >60% diseased leaf area compared to Col0 control plants. This was particularly obvious at later stages of the interaction, resulting in a super-susceptibility phenotype of the mutants. By contrast, atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter construct reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL exhibited a similar basal resistance to E. cruciferarum as compared to wild type Col0 plants thus proving the functionality of the reporter protein and complementation of the mutant phenotype. On the other hand, atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the non-functional reporter construct reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL behaved similar to the original atcep1 knock out plants in showing super-susceptibility (Figure CITATION). Disease symptoms of wild type and atcep1 mutant plants (SAIL_158_B06) upon leaf infection with Erysiphe cruciferarum spores. Wild type Col0 plants and atcep1 (SAIL_158_B06) plants transformed with the functional construct PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL that are comparable to wild type plants, and atcep1 mutant plants (SAIL_158_B06) transformed with the non-functional reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL that are comparable to atcep1 knock out plants were infected with E. cruciferarum and disease symptoms were scored after visual inspection of the whole plant 9, 11, and 13 days post inoculation (dpi). Infected leaf were distributed in the three categories <30%, 30–60%, and >60% diseased leaf area. (A) Representative leaves were excised and photographed 11 dpi. (B) Columns marked with different letters indicate statistically different groups according to the ANOVA- and Duncan test (p < 0.05) and represent the frequency of plants distributed in the three categories of susceptibility. Data represent the respective means of seven experiments from independent inoculation events of the mutants with the corresponding parent background control. Each experiment comprised 5 plants per line. For detection of AtCEP1 protein expression, we scored the appearance of AtCEP1 on total protein extracts from infected leaves of atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL that are comparable to wild type Col0 plants and atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the non-functional reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL that are comparable to atcep1 knock out plants by immunoblot analysis with anti-HA antibodies (Figure CITATION). Pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL was detectable from day 9 on post inoculation and disappeared after day 15. Typically, two distinct protein bands are recognized by the anti-HA antibodies. Both proteins exhibit with molecular masses smaller than the 80 kDa marker the expected sizes based on their sequence with a calculated mass of 72.03 kDa and thus probably represent the intact pro-form of AtCEP1 with the C-terminal KDEL-motif still attached, however in different conformation. This double band was already found for the analogous pro-3xHA-mCherry-AtCEP2-KDEL reporter protein (Hierl et al., CITATION). The non-functional reporter protein pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL was also detectable from day 7 post inoculation on and was found until day 18 post inoculation (Figure CITATION). Pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL and pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL, respectively, are detectable from 9 days post inoculation (dpi) on upon leaf inoculation with Erysiphe cruciferarum. Immunoblots with anti-HA antibodies on total protein extracts from leaves of “wild type” plants (atcep1 SAIL_158_B06 transformed with the functional construct PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) and atcep1 knock out plants (SAIL_158_B06 and SAIL_158_B06 transformed with the non-functional construct PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL). atcep1, SAIL_158_B06; fct, atcep1 plants transformed with the functional reporter pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL; n-fct, atcep1 plants transformed with the non-functional reporter pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL. To investigate the subcellular localization of AtCEP1 in vivo, we analyzed complemented mutant plants (atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) during interaction with E. cruciferarum (12 dpi) by CLSM (Figure CITATION). Without inoculation, we never detected the functional EGFP fusion of AtCEP1. 12 dpi, the EGFP-AtCEP1 fusion protein displayed localization within the entire endoplasmatic reticulum of cells that were successfully penetrated by the fungus and accumulated especially around established haustoria (Figures CITATION–CITATION). A strong labeling around haustoria was also observed at the haustorial plane, where the network of the endoplasmic reticulum seemed to be very dense (Figures CITATION–CITATION). Cells attacked by Erysiphe cruciferarum express EGFP-AtCEP1 in the endoplasmic reticulum and accumulate it around haustoria. Localization of EGFP tagged AtCEP1 in Erysiphe cruciferarum attacked cells of Arabidopsis WT cells (atcep1 mutant plants transformed with the functional reporter PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) upon fungal leaf inoculation 12 dpi. Brick like epidermis cells close to the main vessel are shown; cell outlines are indicated by white dotted lines (A,D). (A) Brightfield image of fungal structures on the leaf. Six bulbous haustoria are visible in the attacked cell (arrows and arrowheads). (B) EGFP-AtCEP1 shows localization in cortical net like structures and around haustoria. (C) Overlay of (A,B). (D–F) Strong accumulation of EGFP-AtCEP1 can be observed around the haustoria. Pictures display a magnified optical section of the area marked by the blue box in the pictures (A–C) in the level of the intracellular haustoria. Pictures are maximum projections of 24 optical sections (A–C) or 12 optical sections (D,E), respectively, with 0.5 μm increments. Visual examination of wild type and atcep1 mutant plants upon infection with E. cruciferarum suggested a role for AtCEP1 in restricting the development of a biotrophic fungus (Figure CITATION, Supplemental Figure CITATION). To assess the atcep1 knock out phenotype on a microscopic level we used two different labels: red fluorescent wheat germ agglutinin that stains the chitin of fungal hyphae and methyl blue that stains the callose at papillae and encasements of established haustoria as well as whole cells that die in the course of epidermal HR-like cell death (Figure CITATION). At 5dpi, fungal colonies on the wild type were grown to a size that about 24 haustoria were established per single fungal colony. In an average colony, 17 fungal attempts to penetrate were associated with localized callose depositions (papillae) without a visible haustorium. More than 19 cells per fungal colony displayed whole-cell callose deposition indicative of cell death, which was associated with fungal infection structures, in most cases collapsed haustoria. By contrast, the atcep1 mutant displayed significantly less epidermal cell death (7 cells per colony) per fungal colony and at the same time supported the development of more haustoria (37 per colony) in living cells. Hence, the atcep1 mutants displayed a failure to restrict establishment or maintenance of fungal haustoria under execution of an HR-like epidermal cell death (Figure CITATION). Wild type plants exhibit significantly more dead epidermal cells and less established haustoria as compared to atcep1 mutants upon inoculation with Erysiphe cruciferarum. Microscopic phenotype of powdery mildew attacked cells on Arabidopsis WT (Col0) and the atcep1 knock out mutant (SAIL_158_B06) 5 dpi. WT cells show a frequent hypersensitive response (HR)-like reaction of penetrated cells (A–C) whereas no HR-like reaction is observed in the atcep1 mutant (D–F). (A,D) Brightfield image of the selected areas. (B,E) Fungal structures on the leaf surface and bulbous haustoria marked by white arrows were stained with wheat germ agglutinine-tetramethylrhodamine. (C,F) Callose was stained by methyl blue staining. Punctate methyl blue stained structures show papilla/cell wall appositions and encapsulated haustoria. Completely stained cells marked by yellow arrows indicate an HR-like cell death. The epidermal cell death is suppressed in cells attacked by Erysiphe cruciferarum on the atcep1 mutant 5 dpi compared to the WT. Columns show the frequency per colony of epidermal cell death, haustoria and papilla in cells attacked by E. cruciferarum. Data present the mean of 54 colonies on three leaves per wild type and atcep1 mutant line, respectively. Error bars are standard deviations. Differences between wild type and atcep1 are highly significant after two sided student's t-test p < 0.001 (***). The results were similarly reproduced in a second independent inoculation with 48 colonies on three leaves per WT and atcep1 mutant line, respectively. The difference in visual scoring leaf symptoms between wild type and atcep1 mutant plants was most obvious at 9 to 13 dpi. However, differences were observed in fungal development and in plant cell death responses at the microscopic level already at 5 dpi. By contrast, no differences were observed in fungal development or host defense responses at 1 dpi (data not shown). We also tested wild type and atcep1 mutants for differential expression of defense associated genes at 12 hpi, 1 dpi, 2 dpi, 3 dpi and 5 dpi. We measured relative expression of biotic stress markers PR1 and PDF1.2 (Reymond and Farmer, CITATION) in wild type and atcep1 plants after powdery mildew inoculation. Expression levels were normalized to the reference gene ATC8, and expression before inoculation in each genotype was set to 1. At distinct stages of the interaction, powdery mildew inoculation provoked very high induction of PR1. PR1 gene expression was attenuated in super-susceptible atcep1 mutants at 5 dpi, which was coinciding with lower levels of epidermal cell death at this time (Figures CITATION, CITATION). By contrast, PDF1.2 expression in atcep1 transiently exceeded wild type level at 0.5 dpi and at 1 dpi (Figure CITATION). Pathogen-responsive genes expression in atcep1. Relative gene expression of PR1 and PDF1.2 in wild type and atcep1 plants 12 h post mildew inoculation (hpi) and 1, 2, 3, and 5 days post mildew inoculation (dpi). qRT-PCR was performed with PR1 and PDF1.2 gene-specific primers. Expression levels were normalized to the reference gene ACT8 and expression before inoculation in each genotype was set to 1. The results were similarly reproduced by three independent inoculations. Error bars represent standard error of the mean (SE).
!~MM~! For the cloning strategy of the fusion gene coding for pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL under the control of the endogenous promoter of AtCEP1 (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) and the primers used see Supplemental Figure CITATION. The sequence approximately 2000 bp upstream of the start Met, that was previously shown to confer tissue specific expression (Helm et al., CITATION), was used as the AtCEP1 promoter region. We placed the first three amino acids Leu-Pro-Thr of the mature subunit C-terminal to the pro-sequence in front of the 3xHA tag in order to ensure processing of the pro-peptide during maturation of AtCEP1. The AtCEP1 promoter with the adjacent 5'UTR and the coding region for the pre-pro-sequence were amplified from WT (Col0) genomic DNA isolated by cetyl-trimethyl-ammonium bromide (CTAB) extraction (Murray and Thompson, CITATION). The 3xHA tag was amplified from pNIGEL18 (Geldner et al., CITATION) and EGFP was amplified from pEZS-CL (Cutler et al., CITATION). The mature AtCEP1 subunit with the 3'UTR was amplified from WT (Col0) genomic DNA. The resulting PCR products were cloned into pGREEN conferring kanamycin resistance (Hellens et al., CITATION; www.ac.uk). The final plasmid construct was sequenced and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (pGV3101) by electroporation. The construct PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL as a non-functional reporter protein lacking the mature AtCEP1 protease subunit was obtained in an analogous manner. It comprised the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter, the 5′UTR and the coding regions for the N-terminal pre-pro-peptide, for the 3xHA tag and EGFP and for the nine C-terminal amino acids of the mature AtCEP1 subunit, including the ER retention signal KDEL (for cloning strategy and primers used see Supplemental Figure CITATION). The resulting PCR products were cloned into pGREEN (Hellens et al., CITATION). The final plasmid construct was sequenced and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (pGV3101) by electroporation. Flowers from homozygous atcep1 knock out mutant plants (SAIL_158_B06) were transformed by floral dipping (Clough and Bent, CITATION) resulting in plants expressing the functional (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) or non-functional (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL) EGFP-reporter proteins, respectively. Eight different homozygous transformants for each construct were screened for high expression of the fusion protein by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and three were chosen for further analysis. Arabidopsis thaliana Col0 plants and the AtCEP1 T-DNA insertion mutants (SAIL_158_B06 and SALK_013036) as well as atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL in SAIL_158_B06) and atcep1 knock out plants transformed with the non-functional reporter (PCEP1::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL in SAIL_158_B06) were grown in a growth chamber at 22°C and a 10-h photoperiod with 120 μmol m−2 s−2 light and 65% relative humidity. The Arabidopsis compatible powdery mildew fungus Erysiphe cruciferarum was grown on Arabidopsis Col-0 plants and for increased conidia production on Arabidopsis pad4 mutant plants (Glazebrook et al., CITATION) at the same conditions. Five-week-old Arabidopsis plants were inoculated with E. cruciferarum for macroscopy and microscopy evaluation of disease progression with a density of 5–7 conidia mm−2. Arabidopsis susceptibility to E. cruciferarum was scored by visual examination of the whole plant 7, 9, 11, and 13 d after inoculation. Plants were distributed in three categories of susceptibility with 0–30%, 30–60%, and >60% diseased leaf area. Wheat germ agglutinin tetramethylrhodamin conjugate (WGA-TMR, Invitrogen Molecular Probes, Germany) binds to extra- and intracellular chitin of fungi. To investigate the development of E. cruciferarum on Arabidopsis, inoculated leaves were harvested 5 days after inoculation and were discolored in ethanol-acetic acid glacial (EtOH-HAc; 6:1). Before WGA-TMR staining, the leaves were washed with H2Odest to remove the EtOH-HAc solution and were incubated for 6 min in PBS buffer (140 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4, 1.5 mM KH2PO4, pH7.4). The leaves were placed into the staining solution [0.01 μ g/μ l WGA-TMR (Molecular Probes, Invitrogen), 0.01 μ g/μ l BSA, PBS buffer] and were vacuum infiltrated twice at −0,8 bar. After 24–48 h incubation in the dark at 4°C, three leaves from WT or atcep1 plants each containing 54 colonies, respectively, were analyzed by fluorescence microscopy (Olympus BX61TRF, Japan). The results were reproduced in a second independent inoculation with 48 colonies analyzed on three leaves of WT and atcep1 plants, respectively. Callose depositions in Arabidopsis cells were visualized by methyl blue (Sigma Aldrich Chemie GmbH, München, Germany) staining. The discolored and WGA-TMR stained leaves were rinsed with distilled water and transferred into 67 mM K2HPO4 buffer for 10 min followed by incubation for 3–4 h in the staining solution (0.05% methyl blue in 67 mM K2HPO4) in the dark and direct analysis by fluorescence microscope (Olympus BX61TRF, Japan). Primers used for qRT-PCR are: ACT8 qRT fw: TGAGACCTTTAATTCTCCAGCTATG; ACT8 qRT rv: CCAGAGTCCAACACAATACCG; PR1 qRT fw: GATGTGCCAAAGTGAGGTGTAA; PR1 qRT rv: TTCACATAATTCCCACGAGGA; PDF1.2 qRT fw: GTTCTCTTTGCTGCTTTCGAC; PDF1.2 qRT rv: GCAAACCCCTGACCATGT. Total RNA was extracted from leaves before and 12 h (hpi) and 1, 2, 3, and 5 days (dpi) post mildew inoculation. Leaves were collected from at least five individual plants and total RNA was extracted with a NucleoSpin RNA plant kit (Machery-Nagel) and 2 μg of total RNA was reverse-transcribed with an oligo-dT primer and M-MulV Reverse Transcriptase (Fermentas) following the manufacturers' instructions. Quantitive real-time PCR was performed using iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) in a CFX96 Real-Time System Cycler (Bio-Rad). A 50-cycle two-step amplification protocol (10 s at 95°C, 25 s at 60°C) was used for all measurements. Leaves were harvested 0–18 dpi days post inoculation with powdery mildew. A protein extract was prepared from one leaf (20–30 mg fresh weight). The plant material was ground with mortar and pestle under liquid N2 followed by the addition of loading dye (60 mM Tris-HCl pH 6.6, 5% glycerine, 1.5% SDS, 1.5% β-ME, 0.1% bromophenol blue final concentration), incubation for 10 min/95°C and analysation by SDS-PAGE followed by western blot analysis with anti-HA antibodies (Roche). CLSM (Fluoview FV 1000, Olympus, Japan) was performed using excitation at 488nm and emission detection between 503 and 550 nm for GFP. Single pictures or stacks of pictures with 0.5 μm increments at higher resolution and 2.5 μm increments at lower resolution were made.
