!~ABS~! Assembly of photosystem II (PSII) occurs sequentially and requires several auxiliary proteins, such as ALB3 (ALBINO3). Here, we describe the role of the Arabidopsis thaliana thylakoid membrane protein Tellurite resistance C (AtTerC) in this process. Knockout of AtTerC was previously shown to be seedling-lethal. This phenotype was rescued by expressing TerC fused C–terminally to GFP in the terc–1 background, and the resulting terc–1TerC–GFP line and an artificial miRNA-based knockdown allele (amiR-TerC) were used to analyze the TerC function. The alterations in chlorophyll fluorescence and thylakoid ultrastructure observed in amiR-TerC plants and terc–1TerC–GFP were attributed to defects in PSII. We show that this phenotype resulted from a reduction in the rate of de novo synthesis of PSII core proteins, but later steps in PSII biogenesis appeared to be less affected. Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that TerC interacts with PSII proteins. In particular, its interaction with the PSII assembly factor ALB3 has been demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation. ALB3 is thought to assist in incorporation of CP43 into PSII via interaction with Low PSII Accumulation2 (LPA2) Low PSII Accumulation3 (LPA3). Homozygous lpa2 mutants expressing amiR-TerC displayed markedly exacerbated phenotypes, leading to seedling lethality, indicating an additive effect. We propose a model in which TerC, together with ALB3, facilitates de novo synthesis of thylakoid membrane proteins, for instance CP43, at the membrane insertion step.
!~RES~! It has been shown previously that TerC is not directly involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis (Kwon and Cho, CITATION), although terc-1 homozygotes formed pale-green cotyledons when grown for 6 days at 4 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 (Figure 1). Under these conditions, the chloroplasts of wild-type (WT) leaves retained the typical lens-shaped structure, with stacked grana membranes, non-appresed stroma lamellae and starch granules (Figure 1b). In contrast, terc–1 chloroplasts lacked starch granules and organized thylakoid membranes. Instead, they contained tightly to loosely appressed thylakoid lamellae, but no typical grana (Figure 1d–f), indicating that the TerC protein is essential for stacking of thylakoid membranes into grana. [[FIGURE]] When the terc–1 mutant was grown under normal light conditions (100 μmol photons m−2 sec−1), proteins representative of each of the four major thylakoid membrane protein complexes were almost undetectable (Kwon and Cho, CITATION). When we reassessed the levels of thylakoid proteins in the terc–1 mutant grown in dim light, we were unable to detect any of the plastome-encoded PSII core subunits D1, D2, CP43 and CP47, although the Lhcb2 protein of the LHCII accumulated to some extent, but less than 10% of WT levels. However, the PSII assembly factors ALB3, PAM68, LPA1 and LPA2 were clearly detectable in terc–1, with the levels of ALB3 and PAM68 being slightly decreased compared with the WT (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] Any involvement of TerC in the transcription of plastome-localized genes and mRNA association with ribosomes has already been ruled out (Kwon and Cho, CITATION). To investigate the rates of synthesis of thylakoid membrane proteins in the terc–1 mutant, in vivo pulse-labeling experiments were performed. To block synthesis of nucleus-encoded proteins, labeling with [35S]Met was performed in the presence of cycloheximide. Synthesis of the PSII core proteins CP47, CP43, D2, D1, the PSI core proteins PsaA/B, and the ATPase α/β subunits was clearly observed in WT leaves, but the amounts of newly translated thylakoid membrane proteins were below the detection limit in terc–1 (Figure 2b). The trace amounts of some translated proteins seen in terc–1 may be of mitochondrial origin, as they do not correspond to any labeled product in WT. These results suggests that newly synthesized membrane proteins are very rapidly degraded and/or that their synthesis and co-translational insertion into the thylakoid membrane is impaired in terc–1. Because all attempts to generate an antibody that specifically recognized TerC failed, plants over-expressing a TerC–GFP fusion protein were constructed in the WT (WTTerC–GFP) and terc–1 (terc–1TerC–GFP) backgrounds. The phenotype of WTTerC–GFP was indistinguishable from that of the WT with respect to growth and photosynthetic performance, but the TerC transcript level was increased approximately 20-fold (Figure 3 and Table 1). On the other hand, the terc–1TerC–GFP plant was able to grow photoautotrophically but retained a variegated leaf phenotype (Figure 3a). In the variegated leaves, the chlorophyll a fluorescence revealed an increase in the minimum fluorescence (F0) and a decrease in the maximum quantum yield of PSII (FV/FM) (Figure 3a). Consequently, a lower effective quantum yield for PSII in terc–1TerC–GFP was recorded (Table 1). Closer inspection of the fluorescence curves revealed that the chlorophyll a fluorescence decreases to close to the F0 level after the initial rise induced by exposure to actinic light (Figure 3b). These observations suggest that PSII activity is not fully restored in terc–1TerC–GFP. Moreover, the phenotype of terc–1TerC–GFP did not result from poor expression of the TerC–GFP transcript, as the level of TerC RNA was approximately twice as high as in WT (Figure 3c). Furthermore, the TerC–GFP fusion protein was correctly targeted to chloroplasts and behaved as an integral membrane protein in terc–1TerC–GFP (Figure S1, Methods S1 and S2). Taken together, these results demonstrate that GFP-tagged TerC only partially substitutes for the WT protein. This is probably because the C–terminally fused GFP tag interferes with the physiological function of TerC, as has been observed for the GFP-tagged version of the Synechocystis ALB3/Oxa1 homolog (Ossenbühl et al., CITATION). Values are means ± SD for five different plants. The actinic light intensity was 62 μmol photons m−2 sec−1. FV/FM, maximum quantum yield of PSII; ΦII, effective quantum yield of PSII. [[FIGURE]] To further assess the TerC function, a knockdown terc allele was generated. An artificial miRNA specifically targeting nucleotides 657–677 of the endogenous TerC transcript (Figure S2) was introduced into WT, and five T1 plants were further characterized. All five exhibited a variegated phenotype. One of these lines, which carries a single-copy homozygous insertion, was selected for further use in the T3 generation, and is designated as amiR-TerC. The variegated phenotype of amiR-TerC resembles that of terc–1TerC–GFP (Figure 3a). Further similarities were found between amiR-TerC and terc–1TerC–GFP with respect to photosynthetic performance. In the pale-green sectors of amiR-TerC leaves, the minimum chlorophyll a fluorescence (F0) was increased (Figure 3a), while FV/FM and the effective quantum yield of PSII were reduced (Table 1). In amiR-TerC, chlorophyll a fluorescence decreased to levels just below F0 after actinic light induction (Figure 3b), indicating imbalanced photosynthesis. We also examined the degree of down-regulation of TerC expression in amiR-TerC using quantitative RT–PCR. The data indicated that amiR-TerC plants expressed only approximately 17% as much TerC RNA as WT plants (Figure 3c). To investigate the ultrastructure of thylakoid organization, WT, WTTerC–GFP, terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC plants were analyzed by transmission electron microscopy. Chloroplasts from 14-day-old leaves of WTTerC–GFP were indistinguishable from their WT counterparts with respect to plastid structure, thylakoid formation and starch accumulation (Figure 4a–c). The variegated phenotype of terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC was reflected in the ultrastructure of their chloroplasts. In the green parts of terc–1TerC–GFP leaves, the majority of plastids displayed an ordered thylakoid structure with grana stacks and stroma thylakoids (Figure 4d). In contrast, the vast majority of plastids in the pale-green sectors of terc–1TerC–GFP leaves had disordered thylakoids. Membrane stacks were very loosely appressed, and there was no clear distinction between grana and stroma lamellae (Figure 4e,f). Nevertheless, stroma-localized metabolic pathways remained active, as indicated by the accumulation of starch. A similar situation was found in leaves of amiR-TerC. In green tissue, plastids with an ordered thylakoid structure characterized by grana stacks and stroma thylakoids were observed (Figure 4 g). In pale-green tissues, grana stacks of thylakoids were only loosely appressed, and connections between adjacent stacks appeared to be missing (Figure 4 h,i). Thus, the chloroplast ultrastructure is in good agreement with the observed photosynthetic parameters, indicating that the low FV/FM ratio (Figure 3a) is due to a disordered thylakoid structure. [[FIGURE]] The results obtained so far led us to focus on the impact of TerC on PSII. Total protein extracts were prepared from the four genotypes (WT, WTTerC–GFP, terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC) (Figure 5a). The levels of plastome-encoded PSII core subunits CP47, CP43, D2 and D1 were reduced to approximately 50% of WT levels in amiR-TerC, and to approximately 40% of WT levels in terc–1TerC–GFP. The nuclear-encoded Lhcb2 subunit behaved similarly, with levels of 45% in amiR-TerC and 54% in terc–1TerC–GFP relative to the WT level (Figure 5a,b). WTTerC–GFP retained WT levels of the inspected proteins. In contrast to the reduced amount of PSII subunits in amiR-TerC and terc–1TerC–GFP, the levels of PSII assembly factors were heterogeneous. Whereas the amount of ALB3 and LPA2 remained at WT levels in all genotypes, the amount of LPA1 and PAM68 was reduced in amiR-TerC and terc–1TerC–GFP (Figure 5a,b). Regardless of the amount of PSII proteins, the ability to form PSII complexes was maintained in amiR-TerC and terc–1TerC–GFP, as deduced from blue native gel electrophoresis experiments (Figure S4 and Methods S3). [[FIGURE]] To investigate rates of synthesis of thylakoid membrane protein in our four genotypes, in vivo pulse-labeling experiments were performed After pulse labeling, thylakoid membrane proteins from the four genotypes were separated into PsaA/B, the ATPase α/β subunits, CP47, CP43, D2 and D1 (Figure 5c). In both terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC samples, incorporation of radioactivity was less efficient, and in WTTerC–GFP samples, incorporation was slightly higher than in WT samples. The level of incorporation of [35S]Met into the ATPase α/β subunits and the D1 and D2 proteins was approximately 50% in terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC compared to WT. However, radiolabeled CP47 and CP43 accumulated to less than 50% in both genotypes (Figure 5c). Radiolabeled thylakoid proteins were stable for at least 2 h in all four genotypes, as determined by a chase experiment with unlabeled Met (Figure 5d). Based on this observation and on results obtained with terc–1 (Figure 2b), we conclude that TerC primarily effects de novo synthesis of thylakoid membrane proteins, with particular effect on CP47 and CP43. In addition, kinetic studies of PSII assembly in amiR-TerC and WT showed no major difference in PSII assembly, confirming that TerC mostly functions during earlier steps (Figure S3 and Methods S3). The two genotypes WTTerC–GFP and terc–1TerC–GFP provided the opportunity to study the distribution of TerC–GFP. Sucrose gradient centrifugation experiments were performed. We found no difference between WT and the genotypes WTTerC–GFP, terc–1TerC–GFP and amiR-TerC with respect to the distribution of LHCII and PSI complexes. Probing of gradient fractions using anti-CP47, anti-CP43 and anti-D2 detected the expected PSII complexes from approximately 200 kDa to > 450 kDa in all four genotypes (Figure 6a). In addition, CP43 was identified in lower-molecular-weight fractions (Ma et al., CITATION), i.e. at approximately 67–160 kDa, in WT and WTTerC–GFP, respectively (Figure 6a). Particularly noteworthy was the strong reduction in the amount of CP43 in these fractions (fractions 6–8) in amiR-TerC and terc–1TerC–GFP (Figure 6a,b). Moreover, these low-molecular-weight fractions (fractions 6–9) also contained the TerC–GFP fusion protein (Figure 6a). When blue-native gel electrophoresis experiments were performed, the GFP signal in terc–1TerC–GFP presumably represented the TerC–GFP fusion protein itself, which has a predicted molecular weight of 64 kDa. A GFP signal with the same mobility was detected in WTTerC–GFP; however, a small amount of TerC–GFP co-migrated with PSII complexes in WTTerC–GFP (Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] If TerC is involved in insertion of thylakoid membrane proteins, it may well interact with subunits of the PSII complex. To test this notion, we used a modified split-ubiquitin system (Pasch et al., CITATION). The results indicated that TerC does not interact with the PSI subunits PsaA and PsaB, nor with ferredoxin or the ATPase IV subunit (AtpI). Furthermore, it did not interact with components of the signal recognition pathway (FtsY) (Kogata et al., CITATION) or the secretory thylakoid targeting pathway (SecY and SecE) (Roy and Barkan, CITATION; Schünemann et al., CITATION) (Figure 7a and Figure S5). However, with regard to PSII subunits, TerC interacted with D1, D2 and CP43, but not with CP47, PsbE or PsbO (Figure 7a). Furthermore, TerC also interacted with LPA2, and with other known PSII assembly factors such as LPA1, PAM68 and ALB3, but not with LPA3 or HCF136 (Figure 7a and Figure S5). The interactions of TerC with ALB3, LPA2 and CP43 suggest a role for TerC during insertion of CP43 into the thylakoid membrane. [[FIGURE]] To study further whether interaction also occurs in vivo, chloroplasts from WT and terc-1TerC–GFP plants were isolated. Proteins were cross-linked, and solubilized thylakoid membranes were incubated with magnetic beads coupled to anti-GFP antibody. Co-immunoprecipitated samples were subjected to immunoblot analysis. Our results showed that TerC–GFP and ALB3 were immunoprecipitated by the anti-GFP antibody (Figure 7b). This result provides additional evidence for an interaction between TerC and ALB3. However, we did not detect interactions of TerC–GFP with D1, D2 and CP43, presumably because TerC is only loosely and/or transiently associated with these components in vivo and thus these interactions are difficult to trap. To study the physiological effects of diminished TerC function in combination with less efficient PSII assembly, we introduced the amiR-TerC construct into the lpa2 and pam68–2 mutants and the PSI mutant psad1–1 (Ihnatowicz et al., CITATION), and analyzed the T1 generation (Table 2). Twenty-one kanamycin-resistant lpa2 seedlings were recovered, which is equivalent to a transformation efficiency of 0.2%. The transformation efficiencies were higher in WT, psad1–1 and pam68–2 (Table 2). All primary transformed lines in the WT, psad1–1 and pam68–2 backgrounds developed pale-green and variegated leaves (Figure 8a). Five plant lines (amiR-TerC and amiR-TerC#2 to amiRTerC#5) in the WT background, six in the psad1–1 background (psad1–1 amiR-TerC#1 to psad1–1 amiR-TerC#6) and nine in the pam68–2 background (pam68–2 amiR-TerC#1 to pam68–2 amiR-TerC#9) were established for seed production (Table 2). None of the 21 transformed lpa2 lines completed the life cycle. These lpa amiR-TerC lines were grouped into three categories. One group developed albinotic cotyledons, the second developed yellowish leaves and the third developed pale-green leaves (Figure 8a,b). For further analysis, two individuals (lpa2 amiR-TerC#5 and lpa2 amiR-TerC#6) belonging to the third group were transferred to greenhouse conditions. The indicated genotypes were subjected to floral dipping using an Agrobacterium strain harboring plasmid p35S:amiR-TerC. [[FIGURE]] A representative line of each genotype is shown in Figure 8(c). As expected, amiR-TerC#4 showed a clear increase in F0 and a decrease in FV/FM (Figure 8c and Table S1) compared to WT. The psad1–1 amiR-TerC#3 line behaved in a similar manner, considering that the FV/FM value in the parental line psad1–1 is already decreased due to a pleiotropic effect (Ihnatowicz et al., CITATION). An interesting difference was found between pam68–2 amiR-TerC#3 and lpa2 amiR-TerC#5. In both parental lines, pam68–2 and lpa2, a similar decrease in FV/FM resulting from impairment in PSII was observed (Figure 8c and Table S1). In pam68–2 amiR-TerC#3, a further decrease in FV/FM was evident. The lpa2 amiR-TerC#5 line died early (see above), but young leaves showed a strong reduction in FV/FM (Figure 8c and Table S1). Thus, the combination of diminished TerC function and complete loss of LPA2 resulted in lethality at the seedling stage. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The terc–1 mutant (SALK_014739; Alonso et al., CITATION) contains a T–DNA insertion in the second intron of the gene (Kwon and Cho, CITATION). The terc–1, psad1–1 (Ihnatowicz et al., CITATION), lpa2 (SALK_067468, Ma et al., CITATION) and pam68–2 (SALK_044323, Armbruster et al., CITATION) mutations possess the Col–0 genetic background. To generate a construct expressing an artificial miRNA targeting TerC under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, a suitable target site was identified as described at http://wmd3.weigelword.org. Cloning of p35S:amiR-TerC was performed as described by Schwab et al. (CITATION) and Kunz et al. (CITATION). Using the miR319a precursor-containing plasmid pRS300 as a template, together with suitable primers (Table S2), a PCR product that included the artificial miRNA coding sequence (5′-TAAGAGTACAGCAGGAAGCGG-3′) was generated and recombined into vector pGWB2 (Nakagawa et al., CITATION), yielding plasmid p35S:amiR-TerC. Cloning of p35S:TerC-GFP was performed using PCR primers bearing attB adaptors (Table S2) and Arabidopsis first-strand cDNA. The amplified full-length TerC cDNA was recombined into pDonor 201 (Invitrogen, http://www.lifetechnologies.com/), and fused upstream of the GFP coding sequence and downstream of the 35S promoter by subsequent recombination into pB7FWG2 (Karimi et al., CITATION), yielding plasmid p35S:TerC-GFP. Both plasmids were introduced into Arabidopsis by floral-dip transformation (Clough and Bent, CITATION). The 35S:amiR-TerC construct was stably introduced into Col–0, psad1–1, pam68–2 and lpa2 strains, and individual transgenic plants were selected on the basis of their resistance to kanamycin (50 mg l−1). Successful integration of the transgene was confirmed by PCR-based genotyping using genomic DNA (Liu et al., CITATION). The 35S:TerC-GFP construct was stably introduced into Col–0 and terc–1, and individual transgenic plants (WTTerC–GFP and terc–1TerC–GFP, respectively) were selected on the basis of their resistance to Basta by spraying with 0.5 ml l−1 Basta (Bayer, http://www.bayer.de which contains 200 g l−1 glufosinat- ammonium). Genotyping of complemented homozygous terc–1 plants was performed by PCR, and successful integration of the transgene was confirmed (Table S2). Segregating terc–1 plants were grown on 1 x Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com) supplemented with 1% sucrose, at a photon flux density of approximately 4 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 white light (provided by light-emitting diodes) under a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle. Unless stated otherwise, WT and transformed Arabidopsis lines were grown for 4 weeks in a growth chamber (Percival, http://www.percival-scientific.com) equipped with 17 W cool white fluorescent lamps under a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle at a photon flux density of approximately 100 μmol photons m−2 sec−1. Arabidopsis plants used for microscopy and kanamycin selection were surface-sterilized and grown on MS medium. Arabidopsis plants used for transformation and Basta selection were grown in a temperature-controlled greenhouse under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle. Total RNA was isolated from ground Arabidopsis leaves using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), followed by DNase I (New England Biolabs, https://www.neb.com) treatment, and 1 μg aliquots of RNA were used as template for first-strand cDNA synthesis using SuperScript III (Invitrogen). For quantitative real-time PCR, SYBR Green Supermix (Bio–Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) was used, and PCR was performed on an iQ5 multicolor real-time PCR detection system (Bio–Rad) using TerC- and ubiquitin-specific (Czechowski et al., CITATION) primer pairs (Table S2). Quantification of relative expression levels was performed using the comparative Ct method (Livak and Schmittgen, CITATION). The photosynthetic performance of PSII was assessed by chlorophyll a fluorescence measurements using Imaging PAM or Dual PAM fluorometers (Walz, http://www.walz.com/). Plants were dark-adapted for 30 min and exposed to a blue measuring beam to determine the minimal fluorescence (F0). Then a saturating 0.8 sec light flash (2800 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 for the Imaging PAM fluorometer or 5000 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 for the Dual PAM fluorometer) was applied to measure the maximum fluorescence (FM), and the maximum quantum yield of PSII (FV/FM) was calculated (Maxwell and Johnson, CITATION). A 10 min exposure to actinic light (635 nm, 62 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) was used to measure steady-state fluorescence. Further saturating light flashes were used to calculate the effective quantum yield of PSII (ΦII) (Maxwell and Johnson, CITATION). Total proteins were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves in 50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 10 mM EDTA, pH 8.0, 2 mM EGTA, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 0.8% w/v SDS, incubated at 95°C for 10 min and separated on Tris-glycine SDS gels (12% acrylamide). Thylakoid isolation was performed as described by Bassi et al. (CITATION). Thylakoid samples for sucrose-gradient fractionation were diluted to a chlorophyll concentration of 1 mg ml−1, and solubilized using a final concentration of 1.0% w/v β–dodecyl maltoside. Sucrose-gradient centrifugation was performed as described previously (Armbruster et al., CITATION), and the gradient was divided into 19 fractions. Equal aliquots of proteins from all fractions were separated on Tris-glycin SDS gels (12% acrylamide). For in vivo labeling, seedlings or 4–5 leaves obtained from Arabidopsis lines were incubated in 1 mCi of [35S]Met in a total volume of 300 μl for 20 min in the presence of 20 μg ml−1 cycloheximide at light levels of 4 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 (for terc–1) or 60 μmol photons m−2 sec−1 (for transformed lines). In pulse-chase experiments, the chase was initiated by adding cold Met to a final concentration of 10 mM. Subsequently thylakoid proteins were prepared and fractionated on denaturing gradient Tris-glycin SDS gels (8-12% acrylamide). Proteins were transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes and used for immunoblot detection with specific antibodies (Table S3) and the enhanced chemiluminescence system (Pierce, http://www.piercenet.com/), or radioactive signals were detected using a Typhoon phosphor imager (GE Healthcare, http://www.gelifesciences.com). For signal quantification, Bio–1D advanced software (Vilber Lourmat, http://www.labindia.com) was used. The TerC coding sequence, with and without transit peptide, was cloned into the multiple cloning site in pAMBV4, and the coding sequences for mature thylakoid proteins (Pasch et al., CITATION; Armbruster et al., CITATION) were cloned into the multiple cloning site of pADSL (Pasch et al., CITATION). Interaction studies were performed using the DUALmembrane kit (Dualsystems Biotech, http://www.dualsystems.com/) as described by Pasch et al. (CITATION). Chloroplasts from WT and terc–1TerC–GFP plants were isolated as described previously (Stoppel et al., CITATION). Proteins were cross-linked using DSP (Dithiobis [succinimidyl propionate]) at 50 mM. Chloroplasts were lysed in 30 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.7, 10 mM magnesium acetate and 60 mM potassium acetate in the presence of a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, http://www.roche-applied-science.com/) by incubation on ice for 30 min. After centrifugation, 30 min at 4°C, at 38 000 g, the pelleted thylakoid fraction was solubilized on ice in 20 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA and 1% v/v Nonidet P–40 (Sigma-Aldrich, http://sigma-aldrich.com) in the presence of protease inhibitor cocktail. Thylakoid proteins (2 mg) were incubated with 30 μl of GFP-Trap® M beads (Chromotek, http://www.chromotek.com/) for 1 h at 4°C with rotation. Beads were washed thoroughly and finally resuspended in NuPAGE®-LDS sample buffer (Life Technologies, http://www.lifetechnologies.com/) supplemented with 50 mM dithiothreitol. The precipitated proteins were subjected to immunoblot analysis. Leaves of agar-grown Arabidopsis lines used for transmission electron microscopy were processed as described by Breuers et al. (CITATION) with slight modifications. As fixative, 2% glutaraldehyde and 4% formaldehyde in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, was used, osmication was performed in 2% osmium tetroxide for 120 min at 4°C, and the samples were stained by incubation in 2% uranyl acetate at 4°C overnight. Sections were viewed using a JEM-2100 transmission electron microscope (JEOL, http://www.jeol.de/).
