!~ABS~! Salt stress is a widespread phenomenon, limiting plant performance in large areas around the world. Although various types of plant sodium/proton antiporters have been characterized, the physiological function of NHD1 from Arabidopsis thaliana has not been elucidated in detail so far. Here we report that the NHD1–GFP fusion protein localizes to the chloroplast envelope. Heterologous expression of AtNHD1 was sufficient to complement a salt-sensitive Escherichia coli mutant lacking its endogenous sodium/proton exchangers. Transport competence of NHD1 was confirmed using recombinant, highly purified carrier protein reconstituted into proteoliposomes, proving Na+/H+ antiport. In planta NHD1 expression was found to be highest in mature and senescent leaves but was not induced by sodium chloride application. When compared to wild-type controls, nhd1 T–DNA insertion mutants showed decreased biomasses and lower chlorophyll levels after sodium feeding. Interestingly, if grown on sand and supplemented with high sodium chloride, nhd1 mutants exhibited leaf tissue Na+ levels similar to those of wild-type plants, but the Na+ content of chloroplasts increased significantly. These high sodium levels in mutant chloroplasts resulted in markedly impaired photosynthetic performance as revealed by a lower quantum yield of photosystem II and increased non-photochemical quenching. Moreover, high Na+ levels might hamper activity of the plastidic bile acid/sodium symporter family protein 2 (BASS2). The resulting pyruvate deficiency might cause the observed decreased phenylalanine levels in the nhd1 mutants due to lack of precursors.
!~RES~! So far, chloroplast envelope localization of NHD1 has only been assumed (Furumoto et al., CITATION). AtNHD1 and its homolog from M. crystallinum (McNHAD) share 86% similarity at the amino acid sequence level (Figure S1), and the plastidic location of the latter has been demonstrated by use of a GFP fusion (Cosentino et al., CITATION). However, a proteomic study identified NHD1 in enriched Arabidopsis plasma membranes (Mitra et al., CITATION), resulting in a need to obtain experimental data on the subcellular localization of AtNHD1. By expression of the NHD1::GFP mRNA construct in mesophyll protoplasts, we were able to demonstrate the subcellular location of the corresponding fusion protein. After transformation of isolated Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts with the NHD1::GFP mRNA, the GFP signal co-localizes with the red chlorophyll auto-fluorescence, confirming a plastidic localization (Figure 1a–c). The plastidial localization was confirmed in a second system by transient expression of NHD1::GFP in tobacco protoplasts (Figure 1d–f). To further confirm the envelope localization of NHD1, we co-transformed tobacco protoplasts with NHD1::GFP and TAP38::RFP mRNA, encoding a thylakoid-associated protein phosphatase (Pribil et al., CITATION). These proteins do not show any significant co-localization (Figure S2a–c), and the corresponding scatter plot revealed a co-localization rate of only 6.8% (Figure S2d). Thus, localization of NHD1 to the thylakoid may be excluded. [[FIGURE]] The sodium transport activity of the NHAD homologs from M. crystallinum and Populus euphratica (poplar) has been demonstrated by complementation of E. coli knockout strains lacking endogenous Na+/H+ antiporters (Cosentino et al., CITATION). The E. coli strain KNabc (ΔnhaA, ΔnhaB ΔchaA; Nozaki et al., CITATION) was transformed with a plasmid harboring AtNHD1 under the control of the isopropyl-β–d–thiogalactopyranoside-inducible TAC promoter, and cell growth rates were quantified in the presence of sodium (Figure 2a; control cells carried the empty control plasmid pTAC–MAT–Tag1). Heterologous expression of NHD1 increased the sodium tolerance of transformed KNabc cells significantly when compared to control cells, suggesting Na+ transport competence of NHD1 (Figure 2a). To elucidate the sodium response of NHD1-expressing E. coli mutants in more detail, we quantified the growth over the entire 15 h of cultivation (Figure S3). The presence of 200 mm NaCl leads to substantial growth inhibition of the E. coli KNabc strain (Figure S3a), but the expression of NHD1 resulted in a less pronounced growth defect (Figure S3b). Increased sodium tolerance due to NHD1-expression becomes particularly visible by monitoring growth of salt-treated and salt-untreated bacteria over time. To allow better comparison, maximal growth of KNabc bacteria and of NHD1-expressing cells was set to 100% (control), respectively and time dependent growth (either in presence or absence of salt) was calculated according to the corresponding controls (Figure S3c). To obtain further independent evidence that NHD1 acts as a sodium carrier, we quantified sodium levels in KNabc cells and NHD1-expressing cells grown in the absence or presence of 200 mm NaCl (Figure 2b). In the absence of NaCl, the internal sodium levels of both cell types were indistinguishable, but in the presence of NaCl, expression of NHD1 led to significantly decreased levels of cellular sodium after 7 or 14 h growth compared to KNabc cells (Figure 2b). [[FIGURE]] The E. coli system does not allow us to analyze whether NHD1 directly mediates sodium/proton antiport. To overcome this limitation, we developed a protocol allowing both biochemical purification of recombinant AtNHD1 synthesized in E. coli and subsequent functional reconstitution in proteoliposomes. We showed here that expression of NHD1 in E. coli leads to functional insertion of the recombinant carrier in the bacterial plasma membrane (Figure 3a,b, lane 1), and that use of immobilized metal-ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) allowed enrichment of the decahistidine-tagged NHD1 protein to high purity (Figure 3a, lane 2). The His-tagged NHD1 protein had an apparent molecular mass of approximately 57 kDa (Figure 3a,b, lane 2). [[FIGURE]] Purified His-tagged NHD1, or the rabbit sarcoplasmic reticulum-located Ca2+ ATPase SERCA as a control, were reconstituted into artificial liposomes. A pH gradient across the proteoliposomal membrane was created via dilution into ammonium-free buffer medium, resulting in acid loading (Venema et al., CITATION; Moncoq et al., CITATION). In the absence of external sodium chloride, NHD1-containing proteoliposomes did not export protons, as indicated by the unchanged pyranine fluorescence within the first 100 sec of the experiment (Figure 3c). However, after addition of 200 mm NaCl, NHD1-harboring proteoliposomes exhibited sodium import coupled to proton antiport at high rates. The concomitant increase of pyranine fluorescence reached saturation after approximately 200 sec (Figure 3c). In marked contrast, control proteoliposomes reconstituted with SERCA protein did not show detectable proton export upon sodium application (Figure 3c), confirming the specificity of NHD1-mediated Na+/H+ exchange. The specificity of NHD1-mediated sodium/proton antiport is also underlined by two further observations: first, the relative pyranine fluorescence change is dependent on the NHD1 protein concentration reconstituted in liposomes (Figure 3c), and second, addition of KCl does not induce a significant pyranine fluorescence (Figure 3d). To obtain further evidence that the NHD1 transport observed in intact E. coli cells (Figure 2 and Figure S3) is due to sodium/proton antiport, we measured NaCl-induced pH changes in corresponding bacterial cells (Figure 3e). In the absence of additional NaCl, the external medium pH of control cells and cells expressing NHD1 was similar (approximately 7.2, Figure 3e). In contrast, addition of NaCl resulted in a significantly higher pH value in the medium containing NHD1-expressing cells, compared with control cells (Figure 3e). This indicates that sodium that entered the E. coli cells non-specifically is re-exported by NHD1. To obtain insights into the tissue specificity of NHD1 gene expression, quantitative RT–PCR analyses were performed (Figure 4a). NHD1 mRNA levels were comparably low in seeds, roots, shoots, flowers and developing siliques (Figure 4a). In contrast, NHD1 expression in the leaf tissues was dependent on the developmental stage. While young leaves contained only fairly low levels of NHD1 mRNA, mature leaves accumulated approximately fivefold higher levels, which remained constant throughout leaf senescence (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] Higher plants possess several carrier proteins that are able to transport sodium against the electrochemical gradient. In addition to NHD1, NHX1 (an intracellular Na+(K+)/H+ antiporter) contributes to Na+ tolerance (Hernandez et al., CITATION; Barragan et al., CITATION; Bassil et al., 2011), and was shown to be induced by NaCl treatment (Yokoi et al., CITATION). This prompted us to compare the expression pattern of both NHD1 and NHX1 in response to sodium chloride. Therefore, Arabidopsis plants were grown for 4 weeks on sand, and then exposed to 150 mm NaCl for 8 days (Figure 4b). The levels of the mRNA encoding the vacuolar Na+/H+ exchanger NHX1 remained constant for the first 4 days of sodium treatment, and increased 2.3-fold over the next 4 days (Figure 4b). In contrast, NHD1 levels did not change within the first 4 days of salt stress but decreased approximately 30% compared to the control after 8 days of salt treatment (Figure 4b). Among the available Arabidopsis nhd1 T–DNA insertion lines, only one homozygous knockout line (Salk008491, nhd1–1) was identified. The fact that nhd1–1 mutants are viable but only heterozygous nhd1–2 mutants (Sail107_F07) were detected suggests the existence of a second and lethal T–DNA insertion in nhd1–2 plants. To obtain a second nhd1 line, homozygous nhd1–1 mutants were crossed with heterozygous nhd1–2 mutants (Figure S4). As backcrossing to nhd1–1 seeds takes place among these mutants, every generation must be screened for nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 plants by PCR or BASTA selection. As a result, nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 mutants are still genetically related to the nhd1–1 mutants. To obtain a further control, nhd1–1 plants were complemented with endogenous Arabidopsis NHD1 cDNA driven by the Ubiquitin10 promoter (Krebs et al., CITATION) and fused to VENUS at the 3′-end to verify plastidic localization in planta (Figure S4). After screening independent nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 mutants, three independent lines (numbers 28, 31 and 34) were isolated that exhibited 9-, 11- and 6-fold increased NHD1 mRNA levels compared to wild-type (Wt) (Figure S4). nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 mutants were used to determine plastidic sodium concentration, photosynthetic performance and amino acid levels upon salt stress (see below). As none of the results revealed significant differences between Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 mutants, we conclude that nhd1–1 mutants are rescued by over-expression of a plastidic Na+/H+ antiporter (Figures 5-8 and Figure S4h). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Chloroplasts from the halophytes M. crystallinum and Suaeda maritima accumulate high concentrations of sodium under salt stress conditions (Harvey et al., CITATION; Cosentino et al., CITATION). In this study, we analyzed whether the glycophytic model plant Arabidopsis is able to accumulate sodium to similar high levels in its chloroplasts. When grown in liquid culture, wild-type, nhd1–1 and all three nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 lines developed at almost the same efficiency, reaching approximately 1600–1800 mg biomass within 10 days (Figure 5a). Exogenous 100 mm NaCl application led to a decrease of approximately 40% in the fresh weight in wild-type controls and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants to 900–1200 mg fresh biomass (Figure 5b). However, under the same conditions, growth of nhd1–1 mutants was even more inhibited compared to Wt plants, producing 400 mg fresh biomass (Figure 5b). Similarly, the total chlorophyll content was comparable in all mutant lines and wild-type under control conditions (Figure 5c), but was significantly reduced in the nhd1–1 mutant compared to Wt after salt treatment. As seen for the fresh weight biomass (Figure 5b), nhd1–1 showed a strongly decrease chlorophyll content of approximately 88% compared to Wt plants after salt exposure (Figure 5d). nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants showed no significant differences in fresh weight and chlorophyll content upon salt treatment compared to Wt (Figure 5b,d). When grown in liquid half-strength MS medium, all plants lines had similar biomass and morphology (Figure 5e). The additional presence of 100 mm NaCl in the medium after 7 days inhibited growth of all plant lines. However, nhd1–1 plants exhibited stronger growth retardation compared to Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants (Figure 5b,d). nhd1–1 individuals hardly developed at all after salt application, and contained only minor amounts of chlorophyll (Figure 5e). To investigate whether Wt and nhd1 mutant plants are able to accumulate excess sodium within chloroplasts, we grew plants on sand supplemented with 150 mm NaCl for 3 days under short-day conditions prior to analysis of chlorophyll levels, total Na+ contents in leaf tissue and plastidic sodium levels. As described above, all three nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 lines exhibited similar reactions upon salt treatment. Therefore, we focused these analyses on nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 line 31, nhd1–1 and nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 mutants (Figure 6a–c). Application of 150 mm NaCl for only 3 days prior to analyses did not have specific effects on total chlorophyll levels in Wt and mutants, as all plant lines contained approximately 1–1.5 mg Chl (g FW)−1 (Figure 6a). Both Wt and mutant plants accumulated up to 680 μg Na+ (g FW)−1 after watering with 150 mm NaCl (Figure 6b, right), which is approximately 15 times more sodium compared to non-treated control plants (Figure 6b, left). Interestingly, the additional presence of NaCl in the daily applied water led to a doubled Na+ content in isolated Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 chloroplasts (Figure 6c). Chloroplasts isolated from salt-treated nhd1 knockout mutants accumulated even higher sodium amounts, reaching 4.1 μg Na+ (μg Chl)−1 in nhd1–1 and 3.5 μg Na+ (μg Chl)−1 in nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 mutants, respectively (Figure 6c, right). This three- to fourfold increase represents a significant increase in plastidic sodium concentration compared to chloroplasts isolated from Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants. As indicated by GFP and VENUS fusions, NHD1 localizes to the chloroplast envelope (Figure 1a–f and Figure S4h). In line with this, loss of the protein led to increased plastidial Na+ concentration upon salt treatment (Figure 6c), accompanied by a significantly reduced chlorophyll content and paler leaves (Figure 4). Therefore, we were interested in monitoring the effects of loss of NHD1 on chloroplast-localized photosynthetic reactions. By use of the pulse-amplitude modulated fluorescence analysis, it is possible to quantify both the quantum efficiency of photosystem II (ΦPSII) and the degree of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ). ΦPSII is a direct measure of the relative use of light energy for photosynthesis, whereas the NPQ provides insight into the degree of quenching of excess light that cannot be used for photosynthesis (Maxwell and Johnson, CITATION). In the case of Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants, the absence or presence of 150 mm NaCl for 3 days did not alter ΦPSII (approximately 0.43) (Figure 7a). In contrast, NaCl treatment of nhd1 knockout plants significantly reduced ΦPSII by up to 15% compared to untreated control plants (Figure 7a). Similarly, the NPQ of Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants was not altered by the presence of 150 mm NaCl for 3 days (Figure 7b). In contrast, nhd1–1 and nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 mutants showed a significant increase in NPQ of 12% compared to control conditions. Recently, NHD1 activity in the C4 species Flaveria bidentis has been shown to be associated with the chloroplastic Na+-driven pyruvate carrier BASS2. Pyruvate uptake into plastids is required to fuel biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids. To investigate whether altered NHD1 activity is involved in with synthesis of aromatic amino acids, we quantified the leaf content of 17 biogenic amino acids in Wt plants, nhd1 knockout and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 mutants under control and salt stress conditions (Table S1). With the exceptions of phenylalanine and tyrosine, none of the measured 17 biogenic amino acids showed a different pattern in nhd1 mutants compared to corresponding Wt plants (Table S1). Interestingly, when compared to Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants, the levels of phenylalanine were significantly decreased in all genotypes but only if plants were treated with 150 mm NaCl (Figure 8a). Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants contained 30 nmol g FW−1 phenylalanine under salt stress, whereas nhd1 knockout mutants contained only between 24 and 26 nmol g FW−1 (Figure 8a). Tyrosine levels increased approximately 60% in nhd1 knockout mutants upon salt stress, but there was no alteration in tyrosine levels in Wt and nhd1–1::UBQ10:NHD1 plants.
!~MM~! After stratification of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia) seeds at 4°C for 48 h in water, seeds were sown on sand and cultivated in a growth chamber at 20°C at 125 μmol quanta m−2 sec−1 in a 10 h light/14 h dark regime conditions. Experiments were performed using 4-week-old plants watered with half-strength Murashige & Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with or without 150 mm NaCl 72 h previously. Growth in liquid culture medium was performed as described by Scheible et al. (CITATION) in half-strength MS medium. Medium was replaced after 7 days with half-strength MS medium or medium containing 100 mm NaCl. Alignment of protein sequences was performed using CLUSTAL_X (Thompson et al., CITATION). The Arabidopsis nhd1 T–DNA insertion mutants Salk008491 (nhd1–1) and Sail107_F07 (nhd1–2) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://abrc.osu.edu/). An additional knockout mutant line was generated by crossing homozygous nhd1–1 plants with pollen of heterozygous nhd1–2 individuals. Corresponding nhd1–1 × nhd1–2 mutants were identified by BASTA selection and subsequent PCR. For genotyping of nhd1 mutants, genomic DNA was isolated from 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants and used for PCR. Corresponding primers are listed in Table S2. For complementation of the nhd1–1 T–DNA mutant, At3g19490 cDNA (NHD1) was amplified without its stop codon, and cloned into pHygII-UT-Venus-cterm (Nagai, T, Ibata, K, Park, E. S, Kubota, M, Mikoshiba, K, and Miyawaki, A., unpublished data) via the SpeI and XmaI sites. Corresponding primers are listed in Table S2. Subsequently, the plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION), and positive transformants were isolated by hygromycin B selection. A NucleoSpin RNA plant kit (Machery-Nagel, http://www.mn-net.com/) was used to prepare total RNA from Arabidopsis plants. Any contaminating DNA was removed by DNase digestion. Quantitative RT–PCR was performed using a MyIQ cycler and IQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio–Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) according to the manufacturer's instructions under the following conditions: 20 min at 50°C, 15 min at 95°C, and 50 cycles of 15 sec at 95°C, 25 sec at 58°C and 40 sec at 72°C. Relative expression levels were calculated using the 2−ΔΔCT formula (Livak and Schmittgen, CITATION), and either normalized to the value for elongation factor EF–1α (At5g60390) or to value at the onset of sodium application. Gene-specific oligonucleotides used for quantitative RT–PCR are listed in Table S2. Full-length NHD1 cDNA was inserted in-frame with the GFP coding region of pGFP2 (Kost et al., CITATION). The primers are listed in Table S2. Purified NHD1::pGFP2 DNA and TAP38::pGJ1425 DNA were used to transform isolated protoplasts from Nicotiana tabacum cv. 38 (Wendt et al., CITATION) or A. thaliana (Yoo et al., CITATION). Protoplasts were analyzed using a Leica TCS SP5II confocal microscope system (http://www.leica-microsystems.com/). Scatterplot was performed using LAS AF software (Leica). The NHD1 cDNA sequence from codons 40–536 without the predicted signal peptide (ChloroP 1.1 server; http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) was amplified by PCR and cloned in-frame into the pTAC–MAT–Tag1 vector (Sigma Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). Primers are listed in Table S2. Functional complementation of the E. coli knockout strain KNabc (∆nhaA::Kmr, ∆nhaB::Emr, ∆chaA::Cmr, Nozaki et al., CITATION) was performed as described by Ottow et al. (CITATION). KNabc cells were either transformed with NHD1::pTAC-MAT-Tag1 or with empty pTAC-MAT-Tag1 vector as a control. Cells were grown in LBK medium [1% tryptone, 0.5% yeast extract and 1% KCl (pH 7.5)]. Bacterial growth was analyzed by fitting the data to the Boltzman equation: where OD0 and ODmax correspond to the initial and final optical density. The time when half of ODmax was reached is indicated by t1/2, and p indicates the growth exponent. Element analyses in KNabc cells were performed as described by Ottow et al. (CITATION). Bacteria were centrifuged (5000 g, 10 min, 4°C) and washed twice (5000 g, 10 min, 4°C) in potassium phosphate buffer medium (170 mm KH2PO4, 720 mm K2HPO4). Samples were lyophilized for 48 h prior to sodium measurement by inductively coupled plasma/optical emission spectrometry. isopropyl-β–d–thiogalactopyranoside-induced KNabc cells were adjusted to an OD600 of 7 using 0.5 mm HEPES buffer (pH 7.0). Either 0 or 500 mm NaCl was added, and the cells were pelleted immediately (5000 g, 5 min, 4°C). Proton-coupled sodium transport was measured as an increase in pH in the supernatant. Recombinant protein synthesis and IMAC purification was performed exactly as described by Trentmann et al. (CITATION). Prior to separation by SDS-PAGE proteins were mixed with 6 × concentrated sample buffer medium (375 mM Tris/HCl, pH 6.8, 0.3% SDS, 60% glycerol, 1.5% bromophenol blue). Electrophoretic protein separation was performed in a discontinuous, denaturing system with a 3% stacking and a 12% separating polyacrylamide gels as described by Laemmli (CITATION). Afterwards, proteins were visualized in the gel by staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R250 or transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane in a wet-blotting apparatus. Immunodetection was performed using a monoclonal mouse anti poly His IgG (Sigma) in combination with a secondary horseradish anti-mouse IgG (Sigma). The molecular masses were estimated using a Page Ruler™ pre-stained protein ladder (Thermo Scientific, http://www.thermoscientific.com/). Reconstitution of NHD1 into proteoliposomes and activity measurement were performed as described by Moncoq et al. (CITATION) with minor changes. E. coli total lipid extract (Avanti, http://avantilipids.com/) was dried to a thin film under nitrogen gas, and lyophilized. Dried lipids were mixed with reconstitution buffer (20 mM bis-tris propane/MES, pH 7.5, 50 mm NH4Cl) supplemented with 2.5 mm of the fluorescent pH indicator pyranine, and vortexed (30 s, max. speed). n–octyl-d–glucoside (20%) was added, and the mixture was vortexed (30 s, max. speed) until all lipid was solubilized. Purified NHD1 was added and mixed gently. The solubilized protein/lipid/detergent mixture was applied to a 2 ml Sephadex G–50 column (GE Healthcare, http://www3.gehealthcare.de/) pre-loaded with reconstitution buffer containing pyranine. The column eluate was incubated for 30 min at room temperature with SM–2 Bio-Beads (BIO-RAD, http://www.bio-rad.com/) to remove residual detergent. The sample was applied to a 2 ml Sephadex G–50 column equilibrated with reconstitution buffer without pyranine. The resultant proteoliposomes containing NHD1 were monitored for Na+(K+)/H+ exchange activity via pyranine fluorescence using a spectrofluorometer, at an excitation wavelength of 463 nm and an emission wavelength of 510 nm. Proteoliposomes containing NHD1 and control proteoliposomes reconstituted in the same way using SERCA (purified from rabbit skeletal muscle as described by Stokes and Green, CITATION) were added to a 2 ml reaction cuvette containing ammonium-free reaction buffer (20 mm bis-tris propane/MES, pH 7.5) to generate a pH gradient. NaCl or KCl was added to initiate Na+(K+)/H+ exchange, which was monitored by the increase in pyranine fluorescence. Isolation of chloroplasts was performed as described by Aronsson and Jarvis (CITATION) with some modifications. Leaves of 4-week-old plants were harvested in the dark, homogenized five times in isolation buffer medium (0.3 m sorbitol, 5 mm MgCl2, 5 mm EGTA, 5 mm EDTA, 10 mm KHCO3, 20 mm HEPES, pH 8.0), and filtered through a double layer of Miracloth (Calbiochem, http://www.merckmillipore.com/). After centrifugation (1000 g, 5 min, 4°C), the pellet was resuspended in isolation buffer medium, transferred to a linear Percoll (GE Healthcare) gradient [50% isolation buffer medium, 50% Percoll, 10 mg glutathione, pre-spun (43 000 g, 30 min, 4°C)] and centrifuged (7800 g, 10 min, 4°C). Intact chloroplasts were harvested from the lower green band of the gradient, washed with HMS buffer [0.3 m sorbitol, 3 mm MgSO4, 50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0 and pelleted (600 g, 5 min, 4°C)]. The intactness and purity of isolated chloroplasts was confirmed by measuring marker enzymes (phosphoglucoisomerase for intactness, NADP-GAPDH for chloroplasts, UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase for cytosol, and fumerase for mitochondria) in isolated chloroplasts and whole-leaf extracts. Purified chloroplasts displayed an intactness of 91 ± 1.3%, cytosolic contamination of 1.6 ± 0.4%, and mitochondrial contamination of 3.2 ± 0.7%. The chlorophyll content of isolated chloroplasts and leaves was quantified as described by Arnon (CITATION). Prior to sodium quantification, chloroplasts were digested using a temperature step gradient with a maximum temperature of 210°C in a MLS-Ethos microwave (http://www.mls-mikrowellen.de/) oven with 5 ml HNO3 (60% v/v), 2 ml H2O2 (30% v/v), and diluted to a final volume of 12 ml with double-distilled water. Analysis was performed by inductively coupled plasma/optical emission spectrometry on an iCAP 6300 DUO apparatus (http://www.mls-mikrowellen.de/). Sodium was detected and quantified at 589.5 nm. For sodium quantification in rosettes, leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen, resuspended in double-distilled water and centrifuged. Ion contents of the extracts were analyzed by a 761–IC compact system (Metrohm, http://metrohm.de/), equipped with a Metrosep-C4-150 column (Metrohm). Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a MINI Imaging pulse-amplitude modulation fluorometer (Walz, http://www.walz.com/). Prior to measurement, 4-week-old plants were adapted to the dark for 5 min. The quantum yield of photochemical energy conversion on PSII (ΦPSII) and the quantum yield of non-photochemical quenching of chlorophyll fluorescence Y(NPQ) were determined. To determine the amount of free amino acids, leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen, and extracted with 80% ethanol at 80°C for 1 h. The supernatant was evaporated to dryness in a vacuum centrifuge. The amino acids and standards (20 mm each) were derivatized as described previously (Rolletschek et al., CITATION) using 6-aminoquinolyl-carbamyl (AQC) (Watrex, http://www.watrex.com/). Measurements of the AQC amino acids were performed using a Dionex P680 HPLC system with an UV170U detector (Dionex, http://www.dionex.com/), and a column system consisting of a CC8/4 ND 100–5 C18–ec column and a 250/4 Nucledur 100–5 C18–ec column (Macherey-Nagel). A gradient comprising 100 mm sodium acetate and acetonitrile (0–15%) was used to separate the amino acids. The AQC amino acids were detected by fluorescence with excitation at 250 nm and emission at 395 nm.
