!~ABS~! Pirins are cupin-fold proteins, implicated in apoptosis and cellular stress in eukaryotic organisms. Pirin1 (PRN1) plays a role in seed germination and transcription of a light- and ABA-regulated gene under specific conditions in the model plant system Arabidopsis thaliana. Herein, we describe that PRN1 possesses previously unreported functions that can profoundly affect early growth, development, and stress responses. In vitro-translated PRN1 possesses quercetinase activity. When PRN1 was incubated with G-protein-α subunit (GPA1) in the inactive conformation (GDP-bound), quercetinase activity was observed. Quercetinase activity was not observed when PRN1 was incubated with GPA1 in the active form (GTP-bound). Dark-grown prn1 mutant seedlings produced more quercetin after UV (317 nm) induction, compared to levels observed in wild type (WT) seedlings. prn1 mutant seedlings survived a dose of high-energy UV (254 nm) radiation that killed WT seedlings. prn1 mutant seedlings grown for 3 days in continuous white light display disoriented hypocotyl growth compared to WT, but hypocotyls of dark-grown prn1 seedlings appeared like WT. prn1 mutant seedlings transformed with GFP constructs containing the native PRN1 promoter and full ORF (PRN1::PRN1-GFP) were restored to WT responses, in that they did not survive UV (254 nm), and there was no significant hypocotyl disorientation in response to white light. prn1 mutants transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP were observed by confocal microscopy, where expression in the cotyledon epidermis was largely localized to the nucleus, adjacent to the nucleus, and diffuse and punctate expression occurred within some cells. WT seedlings transformed with the 35S::PRN1-GFP construct exhibited widespread expression in the epidermis of the cotyledon, also with localization in the nucleus. PRN1 may play a critical role in cellular quercetin levels and influence light- or hormonal-directed early development.
!~RES~! Based on reports that in vitro-translated human and bacterial Pirin could act as quercetinases CITATION, in vitro-translated PRN1 was analyzed for the ability to cleave quercetin (CITATION). Utilizing the buffer of Adams and Jia CITATION, quercetin has a reported absorbance maximum of 384 nm, which we observed herein for quercetin (CITATION). Upon incubation with in vitro-translated PRN1, the absorbance maximum shifted to ∼405–410 nm by 15 min at 26°C, indicating cleavage of quercetin CITATION, and confirming that nascent PRN1 could potentially function as a quercetinase (CITATION). Incubation of quercetin with the in vitro translation components alone did not result in absorbance changes (CITATION). A. in-vitro-translated PRN1 possesses quercetinase activity. In vitro-translated PRN1 was incubated with a final concentration of 10 μM quercetin in a 500 μL total reaction volume, or as a control, 10 μM quercetin alone, in buffer as described CITATION. Reactions were carried out in darkness in a 26°C water bath for 15 min. After incubation at 26°C, absorption spectra of quercetin alone (Quercetin only), Quercetin+PRN1, Quercetin+protein extract, or PRN1 extract only were determined using a Perkin Elmer scanning spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer; Waltham, MA). n = 3, SD shown. B. The conformational status of GPA1 affects the quercetinase ability of PRN1. In vitro-translated GPA1 was pre-incubated with non-hydrolyzable analogs (either GTPγS or GDPβS) overnight at 10°C, then was incubated with PRN1, then (PRN1+GPA1+GTPγS or PRN1+GPA1+GDPβS) was added to buffer+quercetin to assess the effects on quercetinase activity as shown. Absorption spectra of quercetin alone (Quercetin only) also shown. n = 3, SD shown. To address potential regulation of the quercetinase activity of the nascent PRN1 protein obtained by in vitro translation, we explored the interactions between GPA1 and PRN1 (original interaction reported by CITATION, further explored by CITATION, and observed in high-throughput yeast-2-hybrid assays CITATION). We pre-incubated in vitro-translated GPA1 with GTPγS (non-hydrolyzable GTP analog) or GDPβS (non-hydrolyzable GDP analog), in order to produce GPA1 maintained in an activated (GTPγS) or inactivated (GDPβS) conformation, respectively. GPA1 in the active or inactive confirmation was then incubated with in vitro-translated PRN1 and quercetin. The resulting absorbance profiles (CITATION) indicated that GPA1 in its inactive confirmation permits quercetinase activity of PRN1. When GPA1 was maintained in its active confirmation no quercetinase activity was measurable. To further explore the possible role of PRN1 as a quercetinase in plants, etiolated, 6-d-old Arabidopsis WT and prn1 seedlings were both irradiated by UV-B (317 nm), then 6 h post-irradiation, aerial portions of seedlings were harvested. Levels of extractable hydrolyzed quercetin, as well as the closely related compound kaempferol were quantified (CITATION). Quercetin levels in prn1 mutants were approximately twice as high as those detected in WT, while kaempferol levels remained effectively unchanged (CITATION). This finding supports the results of the in vitro quercetinase assays, suggesting that if PRN1 can act as a quercetinase, lack of PRN1 may result in elevated quercetins in mutant seedlings, since there may be no mechanism for cleavage of quercetin to maintain a WT level. A. prn1 mutants accumulate more quercetin compared to WT seedlings. 6-d-old dark-grown seedlings were treated with a brief pulse of UV (317 nm), returned to darkness, then harvested 6 h later to determine the total extractable quercetin (Q) or kaempferol (K) in WT or prn1 seedlings (WT-Q; prn1-Q; WT-K; prn1-K). The levels of Q and K are indicated for prn1 and WT and SD are shown. n = 4 B & C. prn1 mutants survive a UV-C radiation treatment that kills WT seedlings. Seedlings grown in complete darkness as described in methods. UV-C treatments were administered on d 6 as described CITATION, with 4 min (B) or 8 min (C) of 254 nm (UV-C) radiation. Seedlings were returned to complete darkness for 24 h. UV-C killing doses for adt3 or WT were determined by prior ‘titration’ experimentation CITATION. Seedlings were photographed from the side. n = 4. D. prn1 seedlings transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP construct are killed by 8 min of UV-C, similar to WT. Seeds (30) of WT, prn1 or prn1 transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP (PRN1::PRN1-GFP prn1) were sown, then seedlings grown in complete darkness. UV-C treatments were administered on d 6 as described CITATION, with an 8 min dose of 254 nm (UV-C) radiation. Seedlings were returned to complete darkness for 24 h. Seedlings were photographed from the side. n = 4. If young, dark-grown prn1 seedlings potentially have more or accumulate more quercetin, then one would expect the prn1 mutants to exhibit improved resistance to cellular stress caused by high energy UV (UV-C; 254 nm). We confirmed this hypothesis by using a published assay CITATION, where we exposed WT and prn1 insertion mutants to a brief dose of UV-C, then returned the seedlings to darkness (CITATION). 24 h after the UV-C treatment, WT seedlings survived, while radiation-sensitive adt3 (T-DNA insertion of AROGENATE DEHYDRATASE 3, sensitive to radiation as prior reported CITATION) seedlings died, and prn1 mutant seedlings survived (CITATION). When the UV-C dose was doubled, WT seedlings died, and prn1 seedlings not only survived, but also exhibited increased hypocotyl shortening (CITATION compared to 2B). prn1 seedlings (T3, homozygous) transformed with a native PRN1 promoter and PRN1 ORF construct were killed by the 8 min of UV-C, complementing the prn1 mutation (CITATION). Since flavonoids are induced in seedlings by light CITATION, we also observed the growth of prn1 and WT seedlings grown under continuous white light for 3 d on phytatrays. prn1 mutants exhibited an average hypocotyl growth angle (from the horizontal) of 56.6 (+/−3.55 SEM) degrees, while the WT seedlings exhibited an average of 78.0 (+/−2.06 SEM) degrees (CITATION). Examples of the phenotype are shown (CITATION). Since the Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality test indicated that the WT and prn1 data were not normally distributed (WT: KS = 0.222 and p<0.010, prn1: KS = 0.146 and p<0.010; CITATION, respectively), a non-parametric statistical analysis was performed. We found that the prn1 shoot growth angle was significantly different than the WT angle (Mann-Whitney test; p<0.001) (CITATION). The disoriented hypocotyl phenotype was complemented (oriented like WT) in prn1 seedlings transformed by the native construct (PRN1::PRN1-GFP; CITATION). No gross phenotypic differences were observed for prn1 seedlings compared to WT seedlings from 6-d-old dark-grown conditions on vertical plates (CITATION). For 6-d-old light-grown (16∶8) seedlings on vertical plates (CITATION), we observed a hypocotyl phenotype similar to that reported for 3-d continuous white light prn1 seedlings (CITATION), and also observed shorter roots, which was complemented by transformation with the native promoter construct (PRN1::PRN1-GFP) (CITATION). However, when WT were transformed with 35S::PRN1-GFP, the hypocotyl phenotype was reminiscent of the deficiency (prn1 mutant seedlings), but with noticeably smaller cotyledons, hypocotyl and root (CITATION). Three (72 h)-d-old white light-grown seedlings were photographed from the side using a dissecting microscope to compare WT (A–B) and prn1 mutant (C–E) seedlings. Images are representative of the range of orientations observed. Scale bars each represent 1.0 mm. Hypocotyl angles were measured for individual seedlings in reference to the horizontal phytatray surface (where vertical = 90°) and mean angles were calculated (F). Means are shown by lines (solid for WT; dotted for prn1) and SEMs are represented by shaded triangles. n = 65. SEM shown. Subcellular localization of PRN1 was explored by utilizing PRN1-GFP flourescence. prn1 mutant seedlings were transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP (T3), or WT seedlings were transformed with 35S::PRN1-GFP (T2). Homozygous seedlings were grown under selection in complete darkness for 6 d, then images captured on a spinning disk confocal microscope. Flourescence was visible in some cells of the epidermis of the cotyledon, associated with nuclei (both diffuse and punctate), as well as diffuse within the cell cytoplasm of some cells in prn1 transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP (CITATION). Flourescence was greater in the transgenic plants overexpressing PRN1 (WT transformed with 35S::PRN1-GFP) with localization to the nucleus, and diffuse and variable flourescence in the rest of the cell, visible in most of the cells of the epidermis (CITATION). Areas of interest from CITATION images were enlarged to better observe the details over a series of 5 z-slices of 1 μm thickness (CITATION and CITATION). Enlargement of transformed (PRN1::PRN1-GFP) prn1 (CITATION) indicated fluorescence coinciding with DAPI stain throughout the nucleus, both diffuse and punctate. Flourescence was also observed immediately outside of the nucleus, possibly reflecting PRN1 trafficking to the nucleus or surrounding ER; diffuse and some punctate fluorescence was visible elsewhere in the cells shown (CITATION). Some of the punctate fluorescence could correspond to developing plastids, as there are examples of fluorescence of GFP overlapping with 561 nm, which would be expected to cause etioplasts to fluoresce due to protochlorophyllides. Enlargement of the results for transformed WT (35S::PRN1-GFP) seedling (CITATION) similarly revealed GFP fluorescence throughout the nucleus, with punctate structures within the nucleus, and fluorescence throughout the epidermal cells, diffuse and punctate. Like CITATION, there is overlapping fluorescence with 561 nm in some examples. We also performed epidermal peel samples from living, non-fixed cotyledons, from seedlings grown 6 d in darkness or grown under 16∶8 (CITATION & CITATION). GFP-flourescence was largely found in the nuclei, and was diffuse in extranuclear locations. Constructs and transgenic plants are described in methods. 6-d-old dark-grown prn1 whole seedlings transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP (T3) or WT seedlings transformed with 35S::PRN1-GFP were fixed, stained with DAPI, mounted on slides, then photographed on a spinning disk confocal using steady state lasers 405 nm, 488 nm, and 561 nm. All images shown are from the cotyledon epidermis layer. Panel rows are indicated by wavelength, with individual channels in black and white. In the merge, 405 nm (DAPI) is false-colored blue, 488 nm (GFP) is false-colored green, and 561 nm is false-colored red (Red). Images are representative with no alteration of the fluorescence within the image field, and images represent an optical section of 1 μm thickness. The column heading indicates the different seedling lineages. Yellow boxes on the figure indicate areas of interest and show an enlargement. Red arrows indicate DAPI stain in nucleus. White arrows indicate GFP accumulation in 488 nm. Untransformed WT and prn1 seedlings are also shown on the figure. Scale bars each represent 25 μm. n = 4 biological replicates, with at least 12–20 individual seedlings viewed per replicate; images are representative. Microscopy and techniques are the same as described for CITATION. Each row shows 5 consecutive z-slices. The red “n” indicates a nucleus (DAPI stained). GFP expression of interest is indicated by white arrows. Scale bar represents 10 μm. Microscopy and techniques are the same as described for CITATION. Each row shows 5 consecutive z-slices. The red “n” indicates a nucleus (DAPI stained). GFP expression of interest is indicated by white arrows. There is expression in the rest of the cell, largely diffuse. Scale bar represents 10 μm. The non-coding region upstream of the PRN1 START codon (2,651 bp, inclusive of the 231 bp 3′ UTR end of At3g59210) to the gene upstream was cloned as the PRN1 native promoter, and was analyzed for regulatory elements and motifs (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). The motifs indicate potential roles in carbon metabolism, hormone-signaling, light-signaling, and abiotic stress-responses, much of which is consistent with reported high-throughput data CITATION–CITATION. Lapik and Kaufman CITATION also described aspects of the promoter 10 years ago, showing that there were indications for light and hormone regulation, specifically ABA, confirmed by exogenous-ABA regulation of the transcript and complementation CITATION. The eFP browser CITATION indicates that PRN1 is predicted to localize to the nucleus based on published experimental data and the WOLFPSORT prediction method, and possibly to the chloroplasts and cytosol, with a low-to-medium confidence value. In addition, PRN1 expression is shown to increase in response to ABA (guard cells), ACC, and abiotic signals, although conditions of seedling growth (age, sucrose in medium etc.) varied widely in the database CITATION.
!~MM~! All chemicals, unless otherwise noted, were obtained from Sigma (St. Louis, MO). Seeds of wild type (WT) Columbia Arabidopsis thaliana and mutants carrying a T-DNA insertion within the coding region of PRN1 (SALK_006939), and the coding region of ADT3 (published also as PREPHENATE DEHYDRATASE [PD1]), but referred to as AROGENATE DEHYDRATASE [ADT3] after description of the ADT family, henceforth is referred to as ADT3; SALK_029949) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH) CITATION. The mutant lines are homozygous null for the reported insertions. Plants intended for seed stocks were grown in Scott Metromix 200 (Scotts; Marysville, OH) in continuous white light CITATION. Sequence data from this article can be found in the EMBL/GeneBank data libraries under accession numbers At2g27820 (ADT3), At3g59220 (PRN1). Seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana WT or T-DNA insertion mutants were grown on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium, 0.8% agarose phytatrays as described CITATION. The growth medium contained no added sugars, hormones, vitamins or other nutrients. For all experiments, seedlings were sterilized in a bleach solution, all sterilization, planting and manipulations were carried out under dim green light CITATION. Seeds were then washed in sterile water, mixed with low melt agarose then sown on phytatrays, and subsequently sealed in light-proof black plastic boxes. Planted seeds were stratified for 48 h in complete darkness at 4°C as described CITATION without a light treatment. Cold-vernalized seeds were then moved to appropriate dark (dark-grown = continuous darkness) and/or light conditions (phytatrays or vertical trays moved from dark boxes to open boxes), detailed below. Seedlings were grown between 3 d and 7 d for most experiments in either complete darkness or in white light (continuous or 16∶8, 102 μmol m−2 s−1) chambers as described, at 20°C. Vertical growth experiments were as described here. Seeds were prepared as described for phytatrays, except no top agarose was used, with sterilized and washed seeds set directly onto the 0.5× medium (same as phytatray medium). Plates were sealed with parafilm then taped in vertical position in black plastic boxes, were stratified for 48 h in complete darkness at 4°C, then moved to the appropriate growth condition for the experiment. 6-d-old dark-grown seedlings were given a 104 μmol m−2 total dose of 317 nm UV, as quercetins are known to be induced by UV-B CITATION. Six h later the aerial portions of sets of seedlings (1 full phytatray of seedlings per sample; 100 μL of dry seed sown/phytatray) were harvested directly into liquid nitrogen under dim green light, then finely ground, with similar sample preparation as described CITATION, except the final dried samples were weighed, then further purified by dissolving them in water and extracting with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was dried and re-dissolved in a water/methanol mixture for analysis. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of hydrolyzed quercetin and kaempferol was carried out using an Agilent 6410 Triple Quad mass spectrometer (Agilent Technologies; Santa Clara, CA) coupled with an Agilent HPLC 1200 series chromatographic system. The system was operated using Agilent Mass-Hunter workstation software. Separation was achieved on a column HPLC chip (Agilent G4240, C18, 300A°, 43 mm chip) using water and methanol as the mobile phase. The mobile phase was pumped at a 500 nL/min flow rate. The initial mobile phase consisted of 50% methanol for 1 min, and the amount of methanol was increased linearly to 90% over 2.5 min. A multiple-reaction motoring method in the negative ion mode was used for the analysis of quercetin (m/z 301.1−>121.1) and kaempferol (m/z 285.1−>117.1). Values were determined as ng/g liquid nitrogen ground weight. Resultant data obtained from each data pair (WT vs. prn1) were analyzed by a two-tailed T test, where data was entered into GraphPad to determine SD of the ratios for 4 replicates. Full-length PRN1 and GPA1 templates were prepared, amplified and purified as described previously CITATION. PRN1 and GPA1 protein were separately produced in coupled in vitro transcription/translation reactions using the TNT T7 Coupled Wheat Germ Extract System (Promega; Madison, WI) as directed, with a 90 min translation time at 30°C, and as previously described, with 50% concentration of extract by using a microcentrifugation concentrating filter to maximize retention of protein 30 kD and above (Millipore, Billerica, MA) CITATION. For a final volume of 500 μL, freshly in vitro-translated PRN1 extract (16 μg) was incubated with a final concentration of 10 μM quercetin (diluted from 5.0 mM DMSO stock immediately before assay) in a total reaction volume including 1 μL of 0.5× MS medium, and utilizing the buffer and method of quercetinase determination of activity described in the assay of Adams and Jia CITATION. For G-protein assays, 1 μM MgCl2 and 150 mM NaCl were additionally included in the assay buffer. Reactions were carried out in darkness, in a 26°C circulating water bath for 15 min; then the quercetin 2,3-dioxygenase activity of PRN1 was determined by measuring absorbance as described CITATION, using a Perkin Elmer scanning spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer; Waltham, MA). GPA1 was locked in either the active or inactive confirmation by using non-hydrolysable analogs, in a pre-incubation of 16 μg of the in vitro translation GPA1 product extract with a final concentration of 100 μM GTPγS (non-hydrolysable GTP analog), or GDPβS (non-hydrolysable GDP analog) in HEPES, pH 7.5, in 100 μL total volume, overnight in darkness at 10°C under rotation CITATION. The “activated” and “inactivated” GPA1 mixtures were then separately incubated with PRN1 in a 1∶1 volume ratio (26°C for 15 min, circulating water bath) and then tested for quercetinase activity as described above. The ‘buffer only’ scan was subtracted from all spectra. Seeds were planted and seedlings grown as described above. After the cold-stratification, the seedlings were transferred to complete darkness. UV-C treatments were administered on d 6 as previously described CITATION with 4 or 8 min of overhead (254 nm) radiation administered. Seedlings were returned to complete darkness for 24 h. UV-C killing doses for adt3 or WT were determined by dose-response ‘titration’ experimentation. Seedlings were photographed from the side. Seeds were planted and grown on phytatrays as described above. After cold-stratification, the seedlings were transferred to continuous white light. After 72 h, they were photographed from the side using a dissection microscope, and hypocotyl angle (in reference to the horizontal plane) was measured. Two sets of 30–35 seedlings were planted, then, due to highly similar means at time of observations, data were pooled for analysis. For the complementation experiments, the seedlings grown on phytatrays were photographed from overhead at 72 h after stratification. Different sets of seeds were planted and grown on vertical plates in both darkness and 16∶8 light conditions for 6 d, then were photographed to observe the seedling phenotype(s). Dissection microscope images from vertical plate seedlings were reassembled using a stitching plugin for ImageJ CITATION. Standard molecular biology techniques and the Gateway system (Invitrogen) were used for all cloning procedures. PCR fragments were created using the primers, shown in CITATION. WT Arabidopsis genomic DNA was used to generate the PRN1 promoter fragment, and WT Arabidopsis cDNA was used to generate the PRN1 ORF fragment. The PRN1 full promoter fragment was then cloned into the Invitrogen pDONR P4-P1R vector, and the PRN1 ORF fragment was cloned into the Invitrogen pENTR/D-TOPO vector. LR reactions (Invitrogen) were then performed with verified entry clones to obtain expression clones. The pGreen CITATION binary vector derivative containing a NOS terminator with a C-terminal GFP fusion and spectinomycin and BASTA resistance genes CITATION was used for the native promoter construct (PRN1::PRN1-GFP). The pEarleyGate 103 CITATION vector containing an OCS terminator with a 35S promoter, a C-terminal GFP-His fusion and kanamycin and BASTA resistance genes was used for the overexpression construct (35S::PRN1-GFP). All constructs were confirmed via restriction enzyme digest, PCR, and sequencing. Verified expression clones were transformed in prn1 mutant or WT backgrounds via floral dip CITATION. Transformed seeds/seedlings were grown under BASTA selection. Homozygous transformed seedlings were selected in the third generation (T3) for the native promoter construct (PRN1::PRN1-GFP) in prn1 background, and at T2 for the overexpression construct (35S::PRN1-GFP) in WT background. Transgenic and untransformed 6-d-old dark-grown seedlings were fixed using paraformaldyhyde (2.5%), then were mounted in Prolong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI (Life Technologies: Grand Island, NY) on glass slides. Seedlings were harvested in dim green light into fixative, then all other manipulations were done in lab lighting. Images were obtained using an Andor WD Spinning Disk confocal system (Yokagawa CSU-W1 with standard 50 μm pinholes) using iQ2 software. For each replicate 12–20 whole seedlings were screened and areas of fluorescence examined in 1.0 μm thick horizontal sections, where z slices were collected through the complete seedling. Exposures were identical among samples, and contrast uniform on each channel using 3 solid-state lasers. All wavelengths were detected sequentially using narrow band pass filters, basically eliminating any potential for crosstalk. DAPI was stimulated using a 405 nm diode laser (200 ms exposure, laser intensity 64%), and detected with Semrock Brightline, Single Band Fluorescence Filter, 447 Centre; GFP was stimulated with a 488 nm diode laser (400 ms exposure, laser intensity 48.4%), and detected with Semrock Brightline, Single Band Fluorescence Filter, 525 Centre; red fluorescing molecules (largely protochloryllides so etioplasts were identifiable in samples) were stimulated with a 561 nm diode laser (350 ms exposure, laser intensity 67.7%), and detected with Semrock Brightline, Single Band Fluorescence Filter, 607 Centre. At least three separate transgenic lines were used to confirm all reported expression data. Images were prepared with ImageJ software (NIH, Bethesda, MD). Cotyledon epidermal peels were conducted as described CITATION, with specific modifications. Hollister 7730 medical adhesive (Hollister, Libertyville, IL) was sprayed across a glass slide, then waved in air to remove bubbles. After 5 min, live 6-day seedling cotyledons were set adaxial side down, then pressed into adhesive by parafilm to ensure evenly adhered surface. Cells were scraped away with a curved microspatula 3 min later. Prolong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI stain was set on top of the cells for 5 min, then cover slides were mounted for analysis via spinning disk confocal microscopy. prn1 mutants or prn1-transformed with PRN1::PRN1-GFP or WT-transformed with 35S::PRN1-GFP were viewed on spinning disk confocal after DAPI-stain was applied. 10–15 cotyledons were viewed per replicate of 3 independent replicates, utilizing the same lasers and imaging conditions described above for visualization of transgene expression. Data shown in figures were entered into Prism v. 5.0 (GraphPad Software, Inc., GraphPad.com), where mean and SD or SEM are shown for most graphic depictions. For enzymatic activity curves SD is shown on the figures. For bar graphs, quercetin quantification (ng/g liq nitrogen ground mass) is shown as ng/g. The WT and prn1 samples where planted, harvested and extracted as pairs where they were compared, respectively. A two-tailed T test was used with significance set at p<.05. SD are shown on the relevant Figure. For hypocotyl orientation data, a non-parametric statistical analysis was performed for all data. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality test indicated that the WT and prn1 data were non-normally distributed. Subsequently, for the angle of hypocotyl orientation, a Mann-Whitney test was used to compare the prn1 hypocotyl angle to the WT angle, where on the figure SEM is shown.
