!~ABS~!  Plants adapt to environmental light conditions by photoreceptor-mediated physiological responses, but the mechanism by which photoreceptors perceive and transduce the signals is still unresolved. Here, we used 2D difference gel electrophoresis (2D DIGE) and mass spectrometry to characterize early molecular events induced by short blue light exposures in etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings. We observed the phosphorylation of phototropin 1 (phot1) and accumulation of weak chloroplast movement under blue light 1 (WEB1) in the membrane fraction after blue light irradiation. Over 50 spots could be observed for the two rows of phot1 spots in the 2-DE gels, and eight novel phosphorylated Ser/Thr sites were identified in the N-terminus and Hinge 1 regions of phot1 in vivo. Blue light caused ubiquitination of phot1, and K526 of phot1 was identified as a putative ubiquitination site. Our study indicates that post-translational modification of phot1 is more complex than previously reported.
!~RES~! Blue light acts as an environmental cue to regulate plant growth and development, but its perception and transduction by plants remains poorly characterized. To understand better the early events of blue light signaling, the experimental protocol illustrated in Figure CITATION was employed to study the effect of blue light on the proteome of Arabidopsis seedlings. Here, we used 2D DIGE coupled with tandem mass spectrometry to identify early blue light-responsive proteins and protein modifications. Four-day-old etiolated seedlings were irradiated with blue light at a fluence rate of 20 μmol m–2 s–1 for 20 min, a total fluence that is known to saturate the phosphorylation of phot1.CITATION,CITATION Because blue light-induced phototropism is initiated by membrane-associated receptors phot1 and phot2, crude membrane proteins (microsomal fraction) from blue light-irradiated and unirradiated seedlings were compared by 2D DIGE. Two rows of high-molecular-weight proteins (approximately 120 kDa) showed clear mobility shifts in which the more acidic ones showed up only after irradiation and exhibited slightly lower electrophoretic mobility, whereas the more basic ones disappeared after irradiation (Figure CITATIONA), which is the pattern that one would expect to see for light-induced protein phosphorylation. 2D DIGE analysis of the blue light response in the microsomal fraction of 4 day old etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings. (A, B) Col-0 seedlings were irradiated with blue light for 20 min, and microsomal proteins from both control (unirradiated, proteins labeled with Cy3) and irradiated seedlings (proteins labeled with Cy5) were analyzed by 2D DIGE. (A) Superimposed 2D DIGE image of the upper-half of a gel. Proteins (in different modification isoforms) induced by blue light treatment appear as red spots, and those decreased by the treatment appear green, whereas those remaining constant appear yellow. Spots that were characterized by mass spectrometry are highlighted by arrows, and their identities are listed in Table CITATION. (B) Zoomed-in 2D DIGE overlay image (from a different gel than that in panel A) showing the blue light-stimulated accumulation of WEB1 in the microsomal fraction. (C) Identities of the row of phot1 spots were further confirmed by 2D DIGE analysis of the microsomal protein of the etiolated seedlings of the phot1–5 (labeled with Cy3, green) and gl (its genetic background, labeled with Cy5, red) mutants. The estimated pH ranges following IEF are indicated above the gel images in Figures CITATION–CITATION. In-gel trypsin digestion of an excised spot followed by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) identified these spots as phot1 (Figure CITATIONA, arrow 1, and Table CITATION), a result that was expected because phot1 has an apparent size of 120 kDa.CITATION,CITATION The identities of the row of phot1 spots from the unilluminated control seedlings were further confirmed by 2D DIGE comparison of phot1–5 with its genetic background, gl, as these spots disappeared in the phot1–5 mutant (Figure CITATIONC). Two other blue light-responsive protein spots with higher electrophoretic mobility were also identified as phot1 (Figure CITATIONA, arrows 4 and 5), which are likely the partial degradation products of phot1. In addition to phot1, a blue light-responsive protein was identified as WEB1 (weak chloroplast movement under blue light 1, Figure CITATION, arrows 2 and 3), an acidic high-molecular-weight protein regulating the movement velocity of chloroplast photorelocation.CITATION WEB1 was previously shown to be predominantly in the soluble fraction of the proteome, with only a little found in the microsomal fractions.CITATION This is in agreement with its low abundance in the microsomal fraction in our study (Figure CITATIONB). The accumulation of WEB1 protein in the microsomal fraction after blue light irradiation suggests that light induces WEB1 association with the cell membrane or some other cellular structure. As shown in Figure CITATIONA, proteins spots responsive to blue light were screened by DeCyder software and were further characterized by MS/MS. The spot volume ratios of blue light-irradiated to untreated (positive numbers) or untreated to irradiated (negative numbers) and the p values of the Student’s t-test of the comparison were calculated from three biological replicates. For the MS/MS identification, the number of unique peptides, percentage of sequence coverage, and E value (best expectance value) for each spot are listed. The two rows of phot1 spots extended from the basic to the acidic region in the gel shown in Figure CITATIONA. To determine whether all of these spots are the result of differential phosphorylation of phot1, λ-protein phosphatase treatment, which hydrolyzes the phosphate groups from serine, threonine, tyrosine, and histidine residues, was performed on the microsomal proteins from both dark and blue light-irradiated seedlings. In both cases, phosphatase treatment shifted phot1 to the more basic regions and increased its electrophoretic mobility (Figure CITATIONA,B). However, phot1 was still found as a string of spots in the 2-DE gels after the phosphatase treatment, possibly the result of incomplete phosphatase digestion and/or post-translational modifications other than phosphorylation (i.e., any modifications affecting charge of the protein). Phosphorylation is the major form of phot1 post-translational modification, as indicated by λ-phosphatase treatment. Phosphatase treatment induced shifts of phot1 spots in microsomal protein from both blue light-irradiated (A) and control (B) seedlings. On the left, “blue and blue/λPP” indicates the comparison of phosphatase-treated (cy5, red) verse untreated (cy3, green) microsomal proteins from blue light-irradiated seedlings by 2D DIGE and “dark and dark/λPP” indicates the comparison of phosphatase treated (cy5, red) verse untreated (cy3, green) proteins from unirradiated seedlings. Proteins that show up in the phosphatase-treated samples appear red, whereas those in the untreated samples are green. Red arrows point to phot1 spots from samples of irradiated seedlings, green arrows point to those from the unirradiated samples, and white arrows point to those from phosphatase-treated proteins. Salomon et al.CITATION found that the phosphorylation of phot1 in Avena sativa was, in some way, hierarchical, with certain sites phosphorylated at low blue light fluences and other sites phosphorylated at higher blue light fluences. We applied 2D DIGE to study the time-dependent phot1 phosphorylation and dephosphorylation patterns in Arabidopsis. As shown in Figure CITATIONA, a 2 min irradiation at a fluence rate of 20 μmol m–2 stimulated phot1 phosphorylation, as indicated by the acidic shift. A 5 min irradiation shifted phot1 further to the more acidic regions and appeared to saturate phot1 phosphorylation, as longer time treatment (20 and 60 min, respectively) did not cause any further spot shifts in the acidic regions. In contrast, dephosphorylation of phot1 in a sequential order was observed when the saturation-illuminated (20 min) seedlings were kept in the dark. After a 10 min recovery period in darkness, the charges in phot1 were shifted partially toward a more basic pI, as shown on the 2D DIGE gel, and after 60 min, there were no further shifts in electrophoretic mobility. Time-dependent phot1 phosphorylation (A) and dephosphorylation (B) after irradiation of dark-grown seedlings. (A) Etiolated Col-0 seedlings were irradiated with blue light for the indicated times, and the microsomal proteins from irradiated (red) and unirradiated samples (green) were compared by 2D DIGE. Shown are the overlay images containing the phot1 region. (B) After saturating irradiation for 20 min, the etiolated seedlings were kept in the dark. The subsequent phot1 dephosphorylation was monitored by 2D DIGE, comparing the microsomal protein from the Col-0 seedling collected at the time points indicated with that of the control samples (collected immediately after irradiation). Two previous studies identified eight different in vivo phot1 phosphorylation sites,CITATION,CITATION but the large number of phot1 spots with distinct pI values (Figures CITATION–CITATION) that were shifted by protein phosphatase treatment (Figure CITATION) suggested the existence of additional phot1 phosphorylation sites. To identify other possible phot1 phosphorylation sites, an anti-GFP antibody was used to immunoprecipitate phot1–GFP from the microsomal proteins of both irradiated and unirradiated Arabidopsis seedlings expressing phot1–GFP,CITATION and the immunoprecipitates were analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry after separation by SDS-PAGE. In the phot1–GFP proteins from dark-grown seedlings, three phosphorylated Ser sites were observed (CITATION), with all of them located in the N-terminus (Figure CITATION). In the illuminated samples, 13 phosphorylation sites were identified (Figure CITATION and CITATION), which were localized both to the N-terminus and the hinge region between LOV1 and LOV2 (Figure CITATION), including two sites (S58 and S170) that were also detected in the dark sample. A representative annotated tandem mass spectrum of phot1 phosphopeptides is shown in Figure CITATION (for the identity of the phosphorylation sites, see Table CITATION). In all, we report 14 distinct Ser/Thr residues phosphorylated in vivo. Because six of the sites (S58, S170, S185, S350, S376, and S410) were reported to be phosphrylated in vivo either in the dark or in illuminated samples,CITATION,CITATION we report here eight additional in vivo phosphorylated sites (indicated in red in Figure CITATION). Summary of known phot1 phosphorylation sites. Phosphorylated Ser/Thr sites identified from blue light-treated tissues are shown above the protein box, whereas those identified from the dark tissues are shown below the protein box. Ser/Thr sites in black were identified both in this study and in previous studies,CITATION,CITATION those in blue were not identified in this study but were reported previously, and those in red are new sites identified in this study. Phosphorylated S170 was identified from phot1 protein in both dark and irradiated seedlings in this study, but it was identified only from phot1 protein in dark seedlings in a previous study.CITATION In summary, eight new unique sites (S12, S92, S141, T144, T360, S406, S442, and S450) were identified in this study. Representative CID MS/MS spectrum of phot1 obtained from a precursor ion with a m/z value of 910.7604+3, corresponding to a phosphorylated peptide spanning the residues S75–K98 of phot1 (theoretical monoisotopic mass value, 910.7576+3; error in the mass observed in the precursor ion, 3.1 ppm). Phosphorylated serine is shown in the sequence as SP. The observed b and y product ion peaks are labeled accordingly, with the subscripts denoting their position in the identified peptide. Intense ions corresponding to neutral losses from the labeled sequence ions are indicated by *. In the peptide sequence, m denotes oxidized methionine. Figure CITATION shows a scheme illustrating the 16 sites along the phot1 protein. Mass spectra for peptides in this table are provided in Figure CITATION and in CITATION. S* and T* represent phosphorylation sites. m represents oxidized methionine. In a similar study, Inoue et al. identified 25 phosphorylated Ser/Thr residues in Arabidopsis phot2 by LC–MS/MS.CITATION These sites are located both in the N-terminus and Hinge-1 regions. Interestingly, sequence alignment showed that S185 (in phot1) or S121 (in phot2), located in a highly conserved amino acid region just before LOV1 domain of phot1/2, is the only known conserved site phosphorylated in both proteins in vivo (CITATION). Ubiquitination of phot1 has been shown to be involved in phototropic responses,CITATION but the ubiquitination site(s) of phot1 have not yet been characterized. Key features for detection of potential ubiquitin attachment sites on tryptic peptides are the missed cleavage of the modified lysine together with a shift of 114 Da (a diglycine moiety, GG) in both the mass of the precursor ion and the masses of sequence fragment ions in the MS/MS spectrum that would contain the ubiquitin-modified site of the peptide.CITATION,CITATION These GG remnants result from the cleavage by trypsin of the original ubiquitin in the C-terminal side or R on its C-terminal GGR sequence.CITATION Accordingly, a unique ubiquitination site (K526), localized in the LOV2 region, was observed in the spectrum of the peptide F514–K527 of phot1–GFP from blue light-irradiated seedlings (Figure CITATION), but it was not observed in the dark controls (data not shown). To document that ubiquitination of phot1 was regulated by blue light irradiation, phot1–GFP proteins immunoprecipitated by an anti-GFP antibody were immunoblotted with an anti-ubiquitin FK2 antibody that detects both mono- and polyubiquitinylated proteins. Immunoblot assays show that phot1 ubiquitination was enhanced after blue light irradiation, whereas it was reduced during recovery in the dark, in a pattern similar to that of phot1 phosphorylation (Figure CITATION). CID MS/MS spectrum obtained from a precursor ion with a m/z value of 845.9529+2, corresponding to a ubiquitinated peptide spanning residues F514–K527 of phot1 (theoretical monoisotopic mass value, 845.9542+2; error in the mass observed in the precursor ion, −1.4 ppm). Ubiquitinated lysine is shown in the sequence as KGG, as it is labeled by the diGly tryptic remnant of ubiquitin. The observed sequence ions are displayed. Ubiquitination of phot1–GFP is regulated by blue light. Arabidopsis seedlings expressing phot1–GFP were grown in the dark for 4 days. Thereafter, one-third of the samples were collected immediately under dim safe light (dark), another third were irradiated with blue light for 20 min (blue), and the remaining seedlings were incubated in the dark for 60 min after 20 min of blue light irradiation (recovery). Microsomal proteins were extracted from these seedlings and immunoprecipitated with an anti-GFP antibody. The microsomal proteins (input) and the immunoprecipitates (IP; anti-GFP) were resolved by a 7.5% SDS-PAGE gel, transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane, stained by Deep Purple fluorescent stain (A), and detected by an anti-ubiquitin antibody (B). In panel A, phot1–GFP with lower and higher electrophoretic mobilities is marked with stars. In panel B, ubiquitination of phot1 is marked with a star.
!~MM~! In this study, A. thaliana Columbia (Col-0) seedlings and transgenic Arabidopsis expressing phot1–GFP in a phot1–5 backgroundCITATION were used. For etiolated seedlings, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on MS plates (half-strength MS medium,CITATION 0.8% agar, 43.8 mM sucrose, pH 5.7), cold-treated (2 days at 4 °C) in the dark, exposed to white light of medium intensity (100 μmol photons m–2 s–1) for 6 h, and then incubated in the dark growth room for 4 days at 22 °C. Blue light irradiation was performed in a growth chamber (E-30 LED, Percival Scientific, Perry, IA, USA) with far-red, red, and blue (468 nm) light-emitting diode sources. The fluence rate was measured using a LI-250A light meter with a LI-190SA quantum sensor (LI-COR, Lincon, NE, USA). Etiolated seedlings were irradiated for up to 60 min with continuous blue light (20 μmol m–2) or left in darkness as controls. The whole seedlings, including the cotyledons, hypocotyls, and roots, were collected and frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen until protein extraction and proteomic analyses were performed (Figure CITATION). Schematic documentation of the experimental design (A) and a photograph of a representative etiolated Arabidopsis seedling (B). Four-day-old etiolated seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana (B) were used and were either left in darkness (control) or irradiated with blue light. Thereafter, entire seedlings were used for protein extraction and proteomic analyses, which were combined with mass spectrometric and immunoblot analyses. Note that blue light treatment was from the top. The white bar is 1 mm in panel B. Microsomal proteins were extracted as described in previous studies.CITATION,CITATION Briefly, liquid-ground tissue powder was mixed with three volumes of extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 0.33 M sucrose, 5% (v/v) glycerol, 3 mM EDTA, and 5 mM DTT) with phosphatase and protease inhibitors (10 mM sodium fluoride, 10 mM sodium molybdate, 10 mM imidazole, 1 mM activated sodium vanadate, 7 μM E-64, 1.5 μM bestatin, 2 μM pepstatin, 4 μM antipain, and 1 mM PMSF) and then centrifuged at 10 000g for 20 min to remove cell debris. The resulting supernatant was centrifuged at 200 000g for 60 min to pellet the microsomal fraction. The microsomal pellet was dissolved in SDS extraction buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 2% SDS, 1% β-mercaptoethanol, 5 mM EGTA, and 10 mM EDTA) and further purified with a modified phenol–methanol protocol as described.CITATION The protein extract was dissolved in 2D DIGE buffer (6 M urea, 2 M thiourea, and 4% CHAPS) and quantified using the Bio-Rad protein assay. 2D DIGE was performed as described elsewhere.CITATION Twenty micrograms of microsomal proteins from dark-control or blue light-treated plants (pH 8.5) were mixed with 80 pmol of Cy3 or Cy5 dyes and incubated on ice for at least 2 h in the dark. The labeling reaction was terminated by adding 0.5 μL of 10 mM lysine. Cy3- and Cy5-labeled proteins were then combined and used for isoelectric focusing (IEF). IEF was performed on 24 cm IPG strips, pH 3–10 NL (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ, USA). The running conditions were as follows: rehydration for 2 h, 50 V for 10 h, step and hold at 500 V and then 1000 V for 1 h each, gradient to 8000 V over 3 h, and then at 8000 V until reaching a total of 56 000 V h. Second-dimension electrophoresis was performed using 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gels. The electrophoresis was performed at 40 V for 2 h and then at 120 V until the bromophenol blue front reached the bottom of the gel. Images of Cy3- and Cy5-labeled proteins were acquired using a Typhoon Trio scanner (GE Healthcare). The estimated pH ranges following IEF are indicated in Figures CITATION–CITATION. DIGE images were analyzed using DeCyder 6.5 software (GE Healthcare). A differential in-gel analysis module with an estimated spot number of 5000 was used for spot detection, and a biological variation analysis module was used to identify spots differentially regulated by blue light (p value < 0.05). Four biological replicates were used in each comparison, and spots of interests were manually checked to confirm spot matching between different gels and to remove artifacts. Spot picking and reverse-phase liquid chromatography–electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC–MS/MS) analyses were performed as follows. Approximately 400 μg of protein was labeled with 40 pmol of Cy5 dye and separated by 2-DE. After electrophoresis, 2-DE gels were stained with Deep Purple stain (GE Healthcare). Upon scanning the gels with Typhoon Trio, spots of interests were selected with DeCyder software and picked by an Ettan spot picker (GE Healthcare). The excised protein spots were washed twice with 50% acetonitrile in 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate (NH4HCO3), vacuum-dried, rehydrated in 10 μL of digestion buffer (10 ng/μL trypsin in 25 mM NH4HCO3), and covered with a minimum volume of NH4HCO3. After overnight digestion at 37 °C, peptides were extracted twice with a solution containing 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and 5% (v/v) formic acid. The extracted digests were vacuum-dried and resuspended in 10 μL of 0.1% formic acid in water and then analyzed by LC–MS/MS. The digests were separated by nanoflow liquid chromatography using a 100 μm × 150 mm reverse-phase Ultra 120 μm C18Q column (Peeke Scientific, Redwood City, CA, USA) at a flow rate of 350 nL/min in an Agilent 1100 high-performance liquid chromatography system (Agilent Technologies, Inc. Santa Clara, CA, USA). Mobile phase A was 0.1% formic acid in water, and mobile phase B was 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. Following equilibration of the column in 2% solvent B, one-half of each digest (5 μL) was injected, and then the organic content of the mobile phase was increased linearly to 40% over 30 min and then to 50% in 3 min. The liquid chromatography eluate was coupled to a microionspray source attached to the mass spectrometer. The following mass spectrometers were used for the analysis of the samples: QSTAR Pulsar (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex, South San Francisco, CA, USA), QSTAR Elite (Applied Biosystems), LTQ-FT ICR (Thermo Scientific, San Jose, CA, USA), and LTQ Orbitrap XL (Thermo Scientific). Peptides were analyzed in positive ion mode and in information-dependent acquisition mode to switch automatically between MS and MS/MS acquisition. For experiments using the QSTAR Pulsar and QSTAR Elite, MS spectra were acquired for 1 s in the m/z range between 310 and 1400. MS acquisitions were followed by 3 s collision-induced dissociation (CID) experiments in information-dependent acquisition mode. For each MS spectrum, the most intense multiply charged peaks over a threshold of 30 counts were selected for generation of CID mass spectra. The CID collision energy was automatically set according to the mass-to-charge (m/z) ratio and charge state of the precursor ion. A dynamic exclusion window was applied that prevented the same m/z from being selected for 60 s after its acquisition. For experiments using the LTQ Orbitrap XL and LTQ FT ICR, MS spectra were acquired in profile mode using the Orbitrap or ICR analyzers in the m/z range between 310 and 1600. For each MS spectrum, the six most intense multiply charged ions over a threshold of 400 counts were selected to perform CID experiments. Product ions were analyzed on the linear ion trap in profile mode. CID collision energy was automatically set to 35%. A dynamic exclusion window of 1 Da was applied that prevented the same m/z from being selected for 60 s after its acquisition. Peak lists from files acquired by the QSTAR instruments were generated using Mascot Distiller version 2.1.0.0 (Matrix Science, Boston, MA, USA). Parameters for MS processing were set as follows: peak half-width, 0.02; data points per dalton, 100. Parameters for MS/MS data were set as follows: peak half-width, 0.02; data points per dalton, 100. In the case of data acquired in the LTQ Orbitrap XL and LTQ FT Thermo Scientific instruments, peak lists were generated using PAVA in-house software,CITATION which is based on the RawExtract script from Xcalibur v2.4 (Thermo Fisher Scientific). In all cases, the peak lists were searched in-house using ProteinProspector version 5.4.2CITATION (the public version is available at http://prospector.ucsf.edu). The enzyme specificity was set to trypsin, and the maximum number of missed enzyme cleavages per peptide was set at one. The number of modifications was limited to two per peptide. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine was included as a fixed modification; N-acetylation of the N terminus of the protein, oxidation of methionine, formation of pyro-Glu from N-terminal glutamine, phosphorylation of serine, threonine, or tyrosine, and ubiquitination of lysine were all allowed as variable modifications. In searches of LTQ-Orbitrap XL or LTQ-FT data, the mass tolerance was 30 ppm for precursor and 0.8 Da for fragment ions. For QSTAR data, a precursor mass tolerance of 100 ppm and a fragment mass error tolerance of 0.2 Da were allowed for the data search. The peak lists were searched against a subset of the UniProtKB database as of December 15, 2009, containing all entries for Arabidopsis (53 624 entries searched). The false positive rate was estimated by searching the data using a concatenated database that contains the original Arabidopsis UniProtKB database as well as a version of each original entry where the sequence was randomized. In all protein identifications, a minimal protein score of 22, a peptide score of 15, and a minimal discriminate score threshold of 0.0 were used for initial identification criteria. The maximum expectation value threshold (number of different peptides with scores equivalent to or better than the result reported that are expected to occur in the database search by chance) was set to 0.05 for accepting individual spectra and 0.01 for accepting individual proteins. When several accession numbers in the database corresponding to overlapping sequences of the same polypeptide were identified, the common gene locus and protein name were reported. Only proteins with at least two peptides identified were further considered and reported. To assign the modification site for peptides containing post-translational modifications, the MS/MS spectrum was reinterpreted manually by matching the observed fragment ions to a theoretical fragmentation obtained using MS Product (ProteinProspector). Phosphatase treatment was performed as described elsewhere.CITATION,CITATION In brief, 50 μL of microsomal protein (approximately 250 μg) in DIGE buffer was mixed with 5 μL of 10% SDS. Then, 345 μL of deionized water, 50 μL of 20 mM MnCl2, and 50 μL of 10× λ-protein phosphatase buffer were added sequentially, mixed, and incubated with 200 units of λ-protein phosphatase enzyme (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA) overnight at 30 °C. Then, proteins were pelleted by adding five volumes of 0.1 M ammonium acetate in methanol and dissolved in DIGE buffer. Co-immunoprecipitations were performed as described by Kim et al.CITATION The microsomal proteins were prepared as described above and were resuspended in the extraction buffer containing 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100. After centrifugation at 20 000g for 10 min, solubilized proteins were incubated with an anti-GFP antibody bound to protein A Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare) for 1 h. The beads were washed four times with the extraction buffer containing 0.1% Triton X-100 and eluted with 2% SDS. Microsomal proteins and the immunoprecipitated proteins were resolved on 7.5% SDS-PAGE gel, transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane, and then stained with Deep Purple stain (GE Healthcare), as described.CITATION Ubiquitination of phot1 was detected by western blot using an anti-ubiquitin antibody (FK2, mouse monoclonal, Enzo Life Science, Farmingdale, NY, USA), which detects both mono- and polyubiquitinylated proteins.
