!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! Thirty‐four A. thaliana genes encode proteins with a so‐called VQ‐motif (Cheng et al., CITATION), which is named after the invariant valine‐glutamine (VQ) dipeptide and has the deduced consensus sequence ‘F(R/K)xΦVQxΦTG’ (where x is any residue and Φ represents a hydrophobic residue; Fig. 1a). The predicted proteins range from 98 to 412 amino acids in size but are typically small, with 26 of them being < 250 amino acids in size (Table S1). Based on an arbitrary cut‐off of 25% sequence identity, the 34 VQPs may be tentatively divided into 10 subgroups (Fig. S1). The low overall homologies outside of the VQ‐motif suggest that VQPs from the different groups presumably have distinct functions.  [[FIGURE]] Three VQPs, VQ4, VQ32 and VQ33, were isolated in a Y2H screen with MPK3 or MPK6 as bait. The in vivo direct physical interactions between these three VQPs and selected MAPKs were examined using BiFC assays in transfected plant protoplasts (Fig. 1b). Two plasmids expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) amino‐ and carboxy‐terminal fragments fused to the respective proteins of interest were transfected with a third plasmid expressing cyan fluorescent protein (CFP). Assuming no bias in the uptake of the three plasmids, the percentage of transfected protoplasts (i.e. with CFP fluorescence) showing reconstituted YFP signals serves as an estimate of the ‘interaction efficiencies’. On this basis, VQP interactions with MPK3 and MPK6 appeared to be ‘stronger’ than with MPK4. Compared with VQ4 and VQ32, the interaction of VQ33 with the tested MAPKs seemed to be ‘weaker’ or was possibly more transient (Fig. 1b). As these three VQPs as well as many other VQPs contain predicted MAPK phosphorylation sites (Table S2), they may be MAPK substrates. To explore this possibility, we systematically evaluated which of the 20 A. thaliana MAPKs interact with the VQPs. We cloned 32 of the 34 VQPs. The missing two, VQ2 and VQ18, had expression that was too low to allow amplification from reverse‐transcribed mRNAs or could be pseudogenes. In those cases with annotated splicing variants (see Table S1), the ORF sequences encoding the larger proteins were chosen for our analysis. A Y2H analysis of these 32 VQPs against all 20 A. thaliana MAPKs was performed. The yeast transformants were screened on selection plates lacking both histidine and adenine. For cases where control transformants with an empty vector showed background growth, stringency was increased by including the histidine biosynthesis inhibitor 3‐amino‐1,2,4‐triazole (3‐AT; see legend to Fig. 1c). Thus, only strong interactions are expected to be revealed under such stringent selection conditions.  The most prominent interactions were between MPK6 and VQPs from group I (VQ4, VQ13, VQ33, VQ19, VQ11 and VQ31), group II (VQ32 and VQ9), group V (VQ3) and group VI (VQ23/SIB1 and VQ16/SIB2). For these VQPs, interactions with MPK3, MPK4, MPK10 and MPK11 were also detected in some cases (see Fig. 1c). No interactions with any of the 20 MAPKs were observed for VQ6, VQ5, VQ12, VQ29, VQ20, VQ17, VQ25, VQ26, VQ1, VQ15 (CAMBP25) or most members of group IX VQPs (VQ22/JAV1, VQ27, VQ30, VQ34 or VQ7). Because of autoactivation in the Y2H assay, interactions could not be evaluated for VQ14.  While there is little functional information for MPK10, the major VQP‐interacting MAPKs are the stress‐activated MPK3, MPK4, MPK6 and MPK11 (Bethke et al., CITATION). The interaction with MPK10 may be a result of its high sequence homology with MPK3 and MPK6 (64% and 71% identity, respectively). Notably, we could also confirm the reported interaction of MKS1 (VQ21) with MPK4 (Andreasson et al., CITATION) and, additionally, with the highly homologous MPK11 (92% sequence similarity to MPK4). Similarly, an MKS1 homologue, VQ8, also interacted with MPK4. Thus, the interactions found in the Y2H assays suggest that several VQPs may be specifically targeted by stress‐activated MAPKs.  As MKS1 is an MPK4 substrate, the general preference of several VQPs to interact with MPK3 and MPK6 (and their homologue MPK10) may mean that new ‘MKS1‐like’ substrates for the MPK3/6 pathway have been isolated here. We therefore expressed and purified the 32 VQPs as recombinant proteins and screened for in vitro phosphorylation by MPK3 and MPK6. The recombinant MPK3 and MPK6 were activated by inclusion of a constitutively active version of an MPK kinase, MKK5‐DD (Lee et al., CITATION). As a control, incubation with MKK5‐DD alone was used to exclude unspecific phosphorylation of the VQPs. Ten VQPs (belonging to groups I and II) were reproducibly phosphorylated in three independent experiments (using independent batches of the substrates and kinases) by MPK3 or MPK6. VQ3 was weakly phosphorylated in two out of the three experiments, while the other VQPs showed no or only inconsistent phosphorylation (Fig. 2, Table S2). The phosphorylation signal intensities in the ten group I/II VQPs and VQ3 generally corresponded with the higher numbers of predicted MAPK phosphorylation sites (i.e. 5–18) when compared with the other VQPs (i.e. 0–12; Table S2). However, several of the nonphosphorylated VQPs contain up to seven predicted phosphosites. The MPK4‐targeted MKS1 (VQ21) even has 12 potential phosphosites but is not (or only weakly) phosphorylated by MPK3/MPK6. Hence, the recombinant MPK3 and MPK6 did not indiscriminately phosphorylate serine/threonine residues, and there was specificity in the in vitro assay.  [[FIGURE]] To evaluate whether the VQ‐motif contributes to interactions with MAPKs, the conserved valine‐glutamine dipeptide was mutated to aspartate‐leucine (DL) by site‐directed mutagenesis in the ten group I/II VQPs and VQ3. No differences were seen in the phosphorylation when these ‘DL‐mutated’ versions were used as substrates for the in vitro kinase reactions (Fig. S2a). In accordance with this, nearly identical patterns of interaction with the MAPKs were seen with all the mutated variants in the Y2H assays (Fig. S2b). Thus, these findings and the fact that not all VQPs interacted with MAPKs (Fig. 1c) imply that the conserved VQ‐motif is not required for interactions with MAPKs. Taken together, the findings suggest that the MAPKs MPK3 and MPK6 target a specific subset of VQPs. To facilitate reference to this subset of in vitro MPK3/6 substrates, we renamed the ten group I/II VQPs as MPK3/6‐targeted VQPs (i.e. MVQ1–10). The numbering is based on their positions in a phenogram (Figs 1d, S1), and clusters the MVQs that have higher sequence similarities, and are likely to be functionally related, together.  In a pilot Y2H screen against an A. thaliana transcription factor library (provided by Prof. Jong‐Chan Hong, Gyeongsang National University, South Korea) with MVQ1, MVQ3 and MVQ7 as bait, we predominantly recovered WRKY and MYB transcription factors (Table S3). As MKS1 (VQ21) and SIB1/2 (VQ23/16) are known to bind WRKY33 (Qiu et al., CITATION; Lai et al., CITATION), we focussed on the WRKYs by screening on a pair‐wise basis against MVQ1–10. WRKYs are classified into three groups, based on the number and structure of the WRKY domains (Rushton et al., CITATION). Fifty‐nine WRKYs, representing members of all three WRKY groups, were used for this screen. As mentioned above, no clear interpretation of the results for MVQ9 (VQ14) or its VQ‐motif variant (MVQ9DL) could be made because of a high background in the Y2H assay. We also included MKS1 as a control and could confirm the MKS1–WRKY33 interaction (Andreasson et al., CITATION) and further show MKS1 and a homologue, VQ8, interacting with 14 and 17 additional WRKYs, respectively (Fig. 3). While isolated cases of interactions with WRKYs from the other subgroups could be seen, the predominant interactions of MVQ1–10 (except MVQ8) were with group I and group IIC WRKYs (Fig. 3). This finding is in agreement with a recent analysis (Cheng et al., CITATION). However, that analysis was based on only the WRKY domains of seven selected WRKYs, while here we used full‐length proteins and c. 80% of the whole A. thaliana WRKY family.  [[FIGURE]] When the VQ‐motif mutant variants MVQ1–10DL were tested, all (except one) of the interactions with WRKYs were lost (Fig. 3). To exclude the possibility that VQ‐motif mutations affected protein accumulation in yeast, we attempted Western blot detection with an anti‐GAL4 antibody, but the expression levels of the proteins from these low‐copy yeast vectors were unfortunately too low (not shown). As an alternative, we tested for interactions with some other proteins that were isolated as possible VQP‐interactors in the initial Y2H screen. In comparison to the wild‐type VQPs, interactions between the VQ‐motif mutated variants (MVQDL) and selected MYB or TGA transcription factors were not affected (Fig. S3). This implies that the MVQDL variants can principally be expressed in yeast cells. In summary, the VQ‐motif is essential for interaction of MVQ1–10 with a specific subset of WRKY transcription factors in the Y2H analysis.  Interaction with WRKY transcription factors and in vitro phosphorylation by active MPK3/MPK6 suggest that these MVQs may play roles in the plant defence response. To address this, we treated protoplasts (transiently expressing HA‐epitope‐tagged MVQs) with the bacterial flagellin‐derived PAMP flg22 or with water as a control. In Western blots, a gel mobility shift was seen for MVQ1–6 and MVQ10 after both treatments but the shift was always more pronounced with flg22 treatment (Fig. 4a). Phosphatase treatment of the protein extracts (Fig. 4b) or extraction with buffer lacking phosphatase inhibitors (data not shown) abrogated this mobility shift, indicating a PAMP‐induced MVQ phosphorylation in vivo. In addition to the mobility shift, overall protein levels of MVQ1, MVQ2 and MVQ10 were reduced post flg22 treatment. For MVQ8 and MVQ9, there was also a weak reduction in protein abundance in the flg22‐treated protoplasts but without the altered mobility shift. It thus appears that PAMP treatment causes a change in phosphorylation states and/or stability of a subset of MVQs, possibly to regulate defence.  [[FIGURE]] In the remainder of the current work, we concentrated on analysing the role of phosphorylation and its impact on defence regulation of MVQ1 (as it was the first MAPK‐interacting candidate isolated in our initial Y2H screen). In protoplasts derived from mpk6 mutants, the flg22‐induced MVQ1 phospho‐shift was strongly reduced, while the phospho‐shift in protoplasts from mpk3 mutants was comparable to that of wild‐type plants (Fig. 4c). This indicates that MPK6 is the major kinase responsible for the in vivo PAMP‐induced MVQ1 phosphorylation.  MPK6 was thus used to phosphorylate recombinant MVQ1 in vitro and the phospho‐modified residues were determined by LC‐MS/MS. For comparison, the phosphosites in the other group I VQPs (MVQ2–6) were also mapped. As seen in the sequence alignment comparison, many of the detected phosphosites (highlighted in Fig. 5a) resided in well‐conserved putative MAPK target sites. Out of 12 predicted MPK6‐targeted phosphosites in MVQ1, four sites (S163, S175, T178 and S235) were detected in their nonphosphorylated states and one site (S4) was not covered by the MS analysis. Based on the above MS data and additional annotated MVQ1 phosphorylated residues in the PhosPhAT database (Arsova & Schulze, CITATION), an S4A/S16A/T40A/T101A/S155A/S194A/S215A/T219A/S235A MVQ1 version (MVQ1mutP1) was created with nine phosphosites mutated to alanine (i.e. leaving only S163, S175 and T178 intact). Surprisingly, only a marginal reduction (of c. 10%) in phosphorylation was seen in an in vitro MPK6 kinase assay with MVQ1mutP1 as substrate, suggesting that the remaining three phosphosites can be targeted by MPK6. The phosphorylation by recombinant MPK6 was only lost when all 12 phosphosites were mutated (MVQ1mutP2; Fig. 5b). To exclude the possibility of nonphysiological phosphorylation in the in vitro assay, we compared the in vivo flg22‐induced phospho‐shift of wild type and that of MVQ1 phosphosite mutants in protoplasts. After flg22 treatment of the transfected protoplasts, the partial phosphosite mutant MVQ1mutP1 still showed a shifted mobility in gels, but this shift was intermediate when compared with the unshifted and phospho‐shifted bands of wild‐type MVQ1 (Fig. 5c). This band of intermediate phospho‐shift presumably corresponds to phosphorylation at the remaining S163, S175 and/or T178. By contrast, the complete phosphosite variant MVQ1mutP2 showed no mobility shift post flg22 treatment and was, in fact, highest in mobility when compared with the other MVQ1 variants (Fig. 5c), thereby suggesting that the wild‐type MVQ1 is presumably already partially (phospho)modified even in the nonelicited protoplasts. In agreement with the observation reported above that the VQ‐motif is not necessary for interaction with MAPKs or phosphorylation by MAPKs, the MVQ1DL variant exhibited a mobility shift that was indistinguishable from that of wild‐type MVQ1 (Fig. 5c). Hence, taken together, the findings suggest that all 12 potential phosphosites in MVQ1 might be targeted in planta by MPK6 following PAMP (flg22) treatment.  [[FIGURE]] Curiously, for the protoplast transfection, one‐third of the amount of plasmid DNA for MVQ1mutP2 expression was sufficient to yield comparable protein levels to the other constructs; that is, the MVQ1mutP2 protein was always expressed at much higher levels than those derived from the other constructs. This observation supports our speculations above that the general reduction in MVQ1 protein levels in protoplasts treated with flg22 is controlled by phosphorylation. To further confirm this, we blocked de novo protein synthesis with cycloheximide to facilitate visualization of the flg22‐induced MVQ1 protein degradation. MVQ1 (as well as the MVQ1DL variant) levels were rapidly reduced within 30–60 min of co‐treatment with flg22 and cycloheximide, while the phosphosite mutants were more stable (Fig. 5d). Taken together, the results indicate that the phosphorylation status of the protein affects PAMP‐triggered destabilization of MVQ1 (and this is independent of the VQ‐motif).  To investigate whether MVQ1 might control PAMP‐activated responses, we used the defence marker gene NDR1(non race‐specific disease resistance 1)/HIN1(Harpin‐induced 1)‐like 10 (NHL10) as a reporter, as its PAMP‐induced expression is in part dependent on MAPK pathways (Boudsocq et al., CITATION). A −1634 bp DNA fragment 5′ proximal of the NHL10 start codon (−1607 bp promoter and +27 bp 5′ untranslated region) conferred flg22‐ and elf18‐inducible expression when fused to a luciferase reporter gene. Interestingly, co‐transformation with an MVQ1 overexpression construct reduced the flg22‐ and elf18‐induced NHL10 promoter activity in protoplasts. By contrast, the VQ‐motif mutant variant MVQ1DL did not suppress but rather stimulated basal expression and therefore enhanced overall NHL10 promoter activity (Fig. 6a–c). This requirement for the VQ‐motif for MVQ1 to regulate NHL10 promoter activity implicates regulation through recruitment of a WRKY transcription factor(s). In comparison, overexpression of the phosphosite‐mutated variants MVQ1mutP1 and MVQ1mutP2 also reduced luciferase expression driven by the NHL10 promoter. Notably, these phosphosite‐mutated MVQ1s, and particularly the MVQ1mutP2 variant which lacks all MAPK phosphosites, had stronger suppressive effects than wild‐type MVQ1. This is probably attributable to the higher expression of the phosphosite‐mutated MVQ1 variants, which were more stable than wild‐type MVQ1 during flg22 treatment (see Fig. 5d).  [[FIGURE]] As the MVQ1 suppressive effect appears to be dependent on its WRKY binding VQ‐motif, we inspected the NHL10 promoter for W‐boxes that may contribute to this regulation. Two WRKY‐binding motifs (W‐boxes) can be found in a promoter region −198 bp from the predicted transcriptional start site (Zheng et al., CITATION; Fig. 6d). When this truncated promoter of −198 bp was used, the profile of induction by PAMPs was, albeit at a c. four‐fold lower overall level, identical to that obtained with the −1607 bp promoter fragment (Fig. 6d–g). If both W‐boxes of this −198 promoter fragment were mutated, no induction above basal expression level was seen. When the second W‐box (W‐box2) was mutated, the PAMP inducibility of the −198 bp promoter was reduced but not lost. When the promoter was further reduced to −93 bp (which still contains W‐box2), no expression could be detected for the luciferase reporter. Hence, while the sequence upstream of −198 contains enhancer element(s) that boost the overall expression levels, the two W‐boxes within the −198 bp promoter (and particularly W‐box1) are essential for the PAMP inducibility. Similar to the ‘full‐length’ promoter (Fig. 6b–c), MVQ1 overexpression also suppressed the PAMP‐induced luciferase expression from this −198 bp ‘basal’ promoter in a VQ‐motif‐dependent manner (data not shown). Thus, the MVQ1 regulation of NHL10 expression is presumably mediated by the W‐boxes within this ‘basal’ PAMP‐inducible promoter. To prove this, we used WRKY33, as one of the MVQ1‐interacting WRKYs, to drive expression of the −198 bp ‘basal’ promoter. Accordingly, transfection with WRKY33 was sufficient to drive the expression of the promoter in the absence of PAMP elicitation (Fig. 7a), which was not seen when both W‐boxes were mutated (Fig. 7b). More importantly, co‐expression of MVQ1 suppressed this WRKY33‐mediated expression from the ‘basal’ NHL10 promoter (Fig. 7a; see figure legend for details). Taken together and in the context of the ‘natural’ PAMP elicitation, the data suggest that the PAMP‐induced NHL10 expression is positively controlled by certain WRKYs and can be negated by overexpressing MVQ1.  [[FIGURE]] The above biochemical studies indicated that MVQ1 can modulate plant immunity induced by bacterial PAMPs. To investigate the impact of MVQ1 on defence in planta, we generated MVQ1‐overexpressing lines and isolated a T‐DNA insertion mvq1 mutant (details in the 2 section). Pretreatment with PAMPs confers enhanced resistance to subsequent pathogen infection (Zipfel et al., CITATION), which is manifested as a reduced growth of virulent Pseudomonas syringae as compared with bacterial growth in mock‐treated plants (Fig. 8). No difference in this PAMP‐induced resistance could be observed in the mvq1 mutant, suggesting the presence of other functionally redundant VQPs. By contrast, the flg22‐induced resistance was lost in three independent MVQ1‐overexpressing transgenic lines. Hence, this finding supports the data obtained from transient expression in protoplasts indicating that MVQ1 acts as a negative regulator of PAMP‐induced responses to modulate resistance to pathogens.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh genome was searched for proteins with a VQ‐motif and the predicted VQP sequences were aligned using ClustalW (http://www.clustal.org/) or mega4 (http://www.megasoftware.net/mega4/mega.html) multiple sequence alignment programs. For better visualization, the sequence alignment data were further exported into the Boxshade software (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). The consensus VQ‐motif was displayed with the Weblogo tool (Schneider & Stephens, CITATION; Crooks et al., CITATION).  The interactions between VQPs and MAPKs, WRKYs and other transcription factor proteins were assayed in the Gal‐4 reporter‐based ProQuest™ two‐hybrid system (Invitrogen, Darmstadt, Germany). Genes coding for VQPs were cloned into the pDEST32 prey vector and genes coding for MAPKs or WRKYs and other transcription factor proteins were cloned into the pDEST22 bait vector. Transformation into the yeast strain PJ69‐4a was performed in 96‐well microtitre plates. Briefly, 20 μl of yeast suspension was mixed with 0.4 μg of each bait and prey plasmid and 20 μg of single‐strand salmon sperm DNA as carrier and was PEG‐transformed according to an adapted protocol (http://labs.fhcrc.org/hahn/Methods/genetic_meth/dmso_yeast_transform.html). Positive transformants were preselected on yeast ‘drop‐out’ medium lacking leucine and tryptophan, and 10 μl of an overnight culture was transferred to selection medium lacking leucine, tryptophan, histidine and adenine to check for growth (as a readout for protein–protein interactions). In selected cases where autoactivation in the Y2H screen was observed, 3‐amino‐1,2,4‐triazole (3‐AT) was added to the selection plates to increase stringency.  All VQPs and mutated variants were shuttled into the pDEST‐N110 vector (Dyson et al., CITATION) for production of N‐terminally deca‐His‐tagged recombinant proteins in KRX Escherichia coli cells (Promega, Mannheim, Germany). The E. coli cells were cultivated in terrific‐broth‐medium containing 100 μg ml−1 ampicillin at 37°C with vigorous shaking until an optical density (OD600) of 1.8–2.0 and expression was induced by adding 0.1% rhamnose for 5–6 h. Harvested cells were lysed in denaturing lysis buffer (100 mM NaHPO4/HCl, 10 mM Tris/HCl and 6 M GuHCl, pH 8.0) for 30 min at 25°C and the proteins purified by Ni‐NTA agarose (Qiagen) chromatography and refolded as previously described (Feilner et al., CITATION). The refolding buffer was removed and the Ni‐NTA beads were finally resuspended in substrate buffer (10 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, with protease inhibitor mix HP from Serva, Heidelberg, Germany). After verifying purity and yield by SDS‐PAGE/silver staining, an aliquot of the refolded proteins attached to the Ni‐NTA beads was used directly for in vitro phosphorylation by MPK3 and MPK6 in the presence of γ32P‐ATP as described previously (Feilner et al., CITATION). A parsley (Petroselinum crispum (Mill.) Fuss) constitutively active recombinant MKK5 (designated MKK5‐DD; Lee et al., CITATION) was used to activate MPK3/6 and also used as a negative control for unspecific phosphorylation of the VQP substrates. For subsequent mass spectrometry‐based determination of phosphorylation sites, nonradioactive ATP was used for the phosphorylation reaction. A Typhoon™ 9400 Phosphor‐Imager (GE Healthcare, Munich, Germany) (excitation: 532 nm; emission: 580 nm; photomultiplier voltage settings: 400–500 V) was used to scan the gels after Pro‐Q® Diamond staining (Invitrogen) to confirm substrate phosphorylation.  For transient expression of N‐terminally HA‐tagged proteins, the open reading frames (ORFs) of all VQPs and variants, except MVQ3, were cloned into pUGW15 (Nakagawa et al., CITATION). The MVQ3 ORF was cloned into pUGW14 for C‐terminally tagged protein expression as pilot studies suggested cleavage of the N‐terminus. Protoplast isolation and transformation were performed as described previously (Yoo et al., CITATION; Ranf et al., CITATION). For elicitations, protoplasts were treated with 100 nM flg22 (bacterial flagellin 22‐amino acid peptide) or 100 nM elf18 (bacterial elongation factor derived 18 amino acid peptide), which were synthesized using an in‐house Abimed EPS221 peptide synthesis system.  Promoter activity assays were performed in protoplasts transiently expressing the VQPs, a pNHL10‐LUC defence promoter reporter construct and a pUBQ10‐GUS normalization construct, as described previously (Ranf et al., CITATION). To verify protein expression in the protoplasts, Western blots were performed with anti‐HA antibody to detect the epitope tag. For the dephosphorylation assays, 100 μl of protoplasts was pelleted by centrifugation and extracted by vortexing in 25 μl of extraction buffer that consisted of 15 μl of kinase extraction buffer (as in Kroj et al. (CITATION) but with 5 mM NaF), 2.5 μl of ×10 fast alkaline phosphatase (AP) buffer, 2.5 μl of ×100 protease inhibitor mix P (Serva) and 5 μl of Fast AP (1 U μl−1; Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). As a control, the fast AP was replaced by 5 μl of water. After incubation at 37°C (1 h), the reaction was stopped by the addition of SDS sample buffer and analysed by SDS‐PAGE and Western blot.  Please see Supporting Information Methods S1 for details of plant growth, molecular cloning, BiFC assays, phosphorylation site determination by LC‐MS and pathogen assays and Table S4 for primers used. 
