!~ABS~! Deadenylation, also called poly(A) tail shortening, is the first, rate-limiting step in the general cytoplasmic mRNA degradation in eukaryotic cells. The CCR4-NOT complex, containing the two key components carbon catabolite repressor 4 (CCR4) and CCR4-associated factor 1 (CAF1), is a major player in deadenylation. CAF1 belongs to the RNase D group in the DEDD superfamily, and is a protein conserved through evolution from yeast to humans and plants. Every higher plant, including Arabidopsis and rice, contains a CAF1 multigene family. In this study, we identified and cloned four OsCAF1 genes (OsCAF1A, OsCAF1B, OsCAF1G, and OsCAF1H) from rice. Four recombinant OsCAF1 proteins, rOsCAF1A, rOsCAF1B, rOsCAF1G, and rOsCAF1H, all exhibited 3′–5′ exonuclease activity in vitro. Point mutations in the catalytic residues of each analyzed recombinant OsCAF1 proteins were shown to disrupt deadenylase activity. OsCAF1A and OsCAF1G mRNA were found to be abundant in the leaves of mature plants. Two types of OsCAF1B mRNA transcript were detected in an inverse expression pattern in various tissues. OsCAF1B was transient, induced by drought, cold, abscisic acid, and wounding treatments. OsCAF1H mRNA was not detected either under normal conditions or during most stress treatments, but only accumulated during heat stress. Four OsCAF1-reporter fusion proteins were localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. In addition, when green fluorescent protein fused with OsCAF1B, OsCAF1G, and OsCAF1H, respectively, fluorescent spots were observed in the nucleolus. OsCAF1B fluorescent fusion proteins were located in discrete cytoplasmic foci and fibers. We present evidences that OsCAF1B colocalizes with AtXRN4, a processing body marker, and AtKSS12, a microtubules maker, indicating that OsCAF1B is a component of the plant P-body and associate with microtubules. Our findings provide biochemical evidence that OsCAF1 proteins may be involved in the deadenylation in rice. The unique expression patterns of each OsCAF1 were observed in various tissues when undergoing abiotic stress treatments, implying that each CAF1 gene in rice plays a specific role in the development and stress response of a plant.
!~RES~! To identify rice CAF1 homologs, we used the protein sequence AtCAF1a as a query for the basic local alignment search at Phytozome (www.phytozome.net). Eighteen putative homologs (OsCAF1A-R) were identified from rice genome database (Table S1). However, only four corresponding cDNA or EST (expressed-sequence tag) sequences of these putative OsCAF1s could be obtained from NCBI and PlantGDB (www.plantgdb.org) database. These four homologs, encoded by LOC_Os08g34170, LOC_Os04g58810, LOC_Os09g24990 and LOC_Os02g55300, were named OsCAF1A, OsCAF1B, OsCAF1G and OsCAF1H, respectively (Table S1). Using the same way to search, we identified 21 AtCAF1a related sequences in maize (Zea mays). Among them, ZmCAF1A.1 (GRMZM2G047019), ZmCAF1A.2 (GRMZM2G123328), ZmCAF1G (GRMZM2G071059), ZmCAF1H.1 (GRMZM2G179633), and ZmCAF1H.2 (GRMZM2G110960) cDNA sequences were available in public databases. The amino acid sequence comparison analysis indicated that the rice and maize CAF1 homologues we identified are well conserved at RNase D domain with three conserved motifs and four important catalytic residues of nuclease activity, DEDD (Fig. 1). In addition, these CAF1 homologues contain the fifth conserved amino acid residue, histidine (Fig. 1). Therefore, all of the identified sequences from rice and maize were grouped in the CAF1 family (ID: PF04857.15). [[FIGURE]]  A phylogenetic relationship was constructed using amino acid sequences from rice, maize, Arabidopsis, human, mouse, fruit fly, and budding and fission yeast CAF1 families. The phylogenetic tree (Fig. 2) showed that all of the Arabidopsis CAF1 proteins could be divided into three groups, consistent with a previous report (Walley et al. CITATION). The four rice CAF1 proteins analyzed in this study were clustered into two groups, I and III. OsCAF1A, OsCAF1G, OsCAF1H were clustered in Group III, whereas OsCAF1B and its counterparts, AtCAF1a and AtCAF1b, were clustered in the same clade, Group I. The amino acid sequences of the OsCAF1 proteins in Group III were more similar to ZmCAF1 than to AtCAF1 proteins. [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether the OsCAF1 proteins contained deadenylation activity, the recombinant His–OsCAF1 proteins were expressed in E. coli. Three recombinant His–OsCAF1 proteins, rOsCAF1A, rOsCAF1G, and rOsCAF1H, were obtained by HisTrap and gel filtration column. Due to a protein aggregation problem of rOsCAF1B protein, we performed ammonium sulfate precipitation, followed by cation-exchange and gel filtration to purify intact rOsCAF1B. The deadenylase activities of purified proteins were analyzed by incubating them with 5′-FAM-labeled RNA substrates for various lengths of time. Reaction mixtures were subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; the 5′-FAM-labeled fragments were then visualized using fluorometer. rOsCAF1A, rOsCAF1G and rOsCAF1H proteins were able to remove the first seven adenine nucleotides of the substrates within 1 min by stepwise shortening (Figs. 3a, d and e). Compared with rOsCAF1A, rOsCAF1G and rOsCAF1H, the substrates were digested completely by rOsCAF1B within 0.5 min (Fig. 3b), whereas others required longer than 3 min to completely digest the substrates (Fig. 3a, d and e). To determine whether the rOsCAF1B exhibited stepwise deadenylase activity as other rOsCAF1 proteins, less amount of rOsCAF1B was examined. As result shown in Fig. 3c, tenfold diluted OsCAF1B proteins (0.1 μg) removed the first seven adenine nucleotides of the substrates by stepwise shortening. These results indicated that the direction of RNA degradation was from 3′ to 5′. The intermediate products (UCUAAAU) accumulated in all of the reaction mixtures. The OsCAF1 proteins removed the uridine nucleotide and the following three adenine nucleotides and produced shorter products FAM/UCU (Fig. 3a–e). To confirm that the deadenylase activity came from the OsCAF1 proteins, a mutation strategy at the conserved active site residues was applied. Four mutated proteins consequently did not exhibit deadenylase activity (Fig. 3a–e), indicating that the deadenylase activity was not from contaminating nucleases during purification. These results indicated that OsCAF1 proteins are active 3′–5′exonucleases. [[FIGURE]]  To determine the expression profile of the OsCAF1 family in rice, total RNAs were isolated from various tissues and subjected to Northern blot analysis. In the shoots of 21-day-old seedlings and the sheaths of 3-month-old mature plants, OsCAF1A and OsCAF1G mRNA were slightly detectable, and were significantly expressed in the green leaves, senescent leaves, panicle axes, and spikelets of mature plants (Fig. 4a). Two different transcripts of OsCAF1B mRNA, OsCAF1B (L) and OsCAF1B (S), were detected as inverse expression patterns in the various tissues. The OsCAF1B (L) mRNA was detected in roots, sheaths, nodes, and spikelets, whereas OsCAF1B (S) was detected in leaves and senescent leaves (Fig. 4). Northern blot analysis detected no OsCAF1H mRNA in any of the selected tissue (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether the expression of each OsCAF1 gene responses to various abiotic stresses, Northern blot analysis and qRT-PCR were used to determine the mRNA levels of OsCAF1 in the roots and shoots of 2-week-old rice seedlings subjected to abscisic acid (ABA) (20 μM), drought (air drying), cold (4 °C), salt (200 mM NaCl), and heat (45 °C) treatments. The accumulation of OsCAF1A mRNA was slightly induced by ABA, salt, cold, and heat both in roots and shoots (Fig. 5a). The level of OsCAF1B (L) mRNA in roots and OsCAF1B (S) mRNA in shoots was significantly induced by drought stress (with 10 or 30 % water loss) and cold stress (Fig. 5a). We further quantified the relative levels of OsCAF1B mRNA, including both forms, in plants subjected to drought and cold stresses. Consistent with the Northern blot analysis, OsCAF1B mRNA levels increased approximately more than 8.5-fold in drought-stressed shoots, when the plants lost more than 10 % of their fresh weight in water (Fig. 5b). The level of OsCAF1B mRNA increased 2.2- and 9.4-fold after shifting to 4 °C for 8 h in roots and shoots, respectively (Fig. 5c). It has been reported that Arabidopsis AtCAF1a and AtCAF1b mRNA accumulated rapidly within 15 min after ABA and wounding treatments (Liang et al. CITATION). Since OsCAF1B is closely related to AtCAF1a and AtCAF1b from phylogenic tree, we determined whether the expression of OsCAF1B was in response to ABA and wounding treatments. In seedlings, the accumulation of OsCAF1B mRNA drastically increased within 15 min after wounding and ABA treatments, but then declined 1 h after treatments (Fig. 5d, e). These results indicated that OsCAF1B transcripts were transiently induced by drought, cold, ABA, and wounding treatments. OsCAF1G mRNA was detected in shoots and was slightly repressed by heat stress, ABA and cold stress (Fig. 5a). Moreover, OsCAF1G mRNA was detectable under ABA, drought, salt and heat stress in roots. Among the different stress treatments, OsCAF1H mRNA was only detected under heat stress, and levels of OsCAF1H mRNA increased 9.9-fold in roots and 4.2-fold in shoots after shifting to 45 °C for 1 h, and dramatically decreased to the basal level after 3 h of recovery at room temperature (Fig. 5f). The differential expression patterns of rice CAF1 family members indicate that each OsCAF1 gene in rice may have a unique function in response to various abiotic stresses. [[FIGURE]]  The cellular localization of POP2 (yeast CAF1) and CNOT8 (human CAF1) occurs predominantly in the cytoplasm and P-body (Teixeira and Parker CITATION; Tucker et al. CITATION; Yamashita et al. CITATION; Zheng et al. CITATION). Another human CAF1 homolog, CNOT7, is located in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Robin-Lespinasse et al. CITATION). Amino acid sequence analysis indicated that some OsCAF1 proteins have various numbers of putative NLS and NES (Fig. 6a). To determine the subcellular localizations of OsCAF1 proteins, OsCAF1 genes were fused with GFP under the control of a 35S promoter and introduced into onion epidermal cells using particle bombardment. To prevent artifacts resulting from high protein expression, GFP-emitted fluorescence signals were observed at 6 h after bombardment. As shown in Fig. 6b, fluorescence signals from GFP fused to the C terminal of each OsCAF1 protein (OsCAF1–GFP) were present not only in the nucleus but also in the cytoplasm, the same cellular localization pattern as GFP only. In the cytoplasm, OsCAF1A–, OsCAF1G– and OsCAF1H–GFP protein signals were distributed uniformly (Fig. 6b), whereas OsCAF1B (L)–GFP was localized to specific cytosolic foci and formed filamentous structures (Figs. 6b, c). Similar subcellular localization patterns were observed when GFP fused to the N-terminus of each OsCAF1 (GFP–OsCAF1) (Supplemental Figure 1).We further examined the subcellular localization of OsCAF1 proteins by fusing another reporter, β-glucuronidase (GUS), in onion epidermal cells. Each OsCAF1 fusion proteins (OsCAF1–GUS) were distributed both in the nucleus and cytoplasm, whereas GUS was predominantly localized in the cytoplasm (Supplemental Figure 2). The OsCAF1B–GUS was also localized to specific cytosolic foci and filamentous structures. In contrast to the well-distributed signals of GFP and OsCAF1A–GFP in the nucleus, the OsCAF1B (L)–, OsCAF1G– and OsCAF1H–GFP signals in the nucleus exhibited dense spots that were localized to the nucleoli (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Specific localization in the cytosolic foci and filamentous structures of OsCAF1B was observed (Fig. 6b, c). Since CNOT7, a human CAF1 homolog, is known to localize in P-bodies (Zheng et al. CITATION), we determined whether OsCAF1B (L) was associated with P-bodies, and conducted colocalization experiments using the Arabidopsis P-body marker EXONUCLEASE 4 (AtXRN4) (Moreno et al. CITATION; Souret et al. CITATION; Weber et al. CITATION). Consistent with Arabidopsis protoplasts, AtXRN4–GFP was localized in cytoplasmic foci resembling P-bodies (Fig. 8a). OsCAF1B (L)–mCherry fluorescent fusion proteins were colocalized with AtXRN4–GFP, indicating that OsCAF1B (L) localized in P-bodies (Fig. 8a). However, certain OsCAF1B (L)–mCherry proteins were not colocalized with AtXRN4–GFP. By contrast, OsCAF1B (L)–GFP proteins assembled as filamentous structures in the cytoplasm are probably microfilaments or microtubules (Fig. 6b, c). We examined whether OsCAF1B (L)–mCherry was associated with a microtubule marker, AtKSS12, Arabidopsis katanin domain one and two (Stoppin-Mellet et al. CITATION), or a microfilament marker, AtfABP2, the second actin-binding domain of Arabidopsis fimbrin. The results shown in Fig. 8b indicated that OsCAF1B (L)–mCherry and AtKSS12-GFP were colocalized, wherease AtfABP2-GFP were not (Supplemental Figure 3), indicating that OsCAF1B (L) is associated with microtubules. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! To identify the rice and maize CAF1 homologs, we used the AtCAF1a (encoded as At3g44260) sequence (Walley et al. CITATION) as a query to perform the BLAST program, searching the Oryza sativa and Zea mays nodes at Phytozome (www.phytozome.net). Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe), human (Homo sapiens), fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), and mouse (Mus musculus) CAF1 amino acid sequences were identified using the NCBI database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Finally, all of these amino acid sequences were aligned using the EBI Clustal Ω program (www.ebi.ac.uk), and the phylogenetic trees were generated using MEGA 5 (Tamura et al. CITATION). We used the neighbor-joining method to construct different trees with pairwise deletion. The bootstrap calculation was performed using 1,000 replicates for statistical reliability. The rice variety used in this study was Oryza sativa L. cv Tainung 67 (TNG67). Seeds were surface-sterilized with 2.5 % NaOCl for 40 min, washed extensively with sterile water, and germinated in the dark on wet filter paper in petri dishes at 37 °C for 48 h. After incubation, uniformly germinated seeds were selected and cultivated in a 500 mL beaker containing half-strength Kimura B solution replaced every 3 day. The hydroponically cultivated seedlings were grown in a growth chamber at 28 °C with a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle. Twenty-one-day-old seedlings underwent different stress treatments by replacing the medium. The medium was replaced with a fresh medium prechilled to 4 °C (cold stress), prewarmed to 45 °C (heat stress), supplemented with 200 mM NaCl (salt stress) or 20 μM ABA (ABA treatment). For temperature stress treatments, the seedlings were transferred to growth chambers maintained at 4 °C (cold stress) or 45 °C (heat stress). Drought stress was performed by air-drying seedlings at 28 °C, and samples were taken after 10 and 30 % fresh weight loss was recorded. For wound treatments, the leaves were punctured with needles and then cultured at 28 °C. Samples after the treatments were collected at indicated times, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −70 °C. Total RNA was extracted from the shoots and roots of 21-day-old seedlings treated with ABA or differential stresses by TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). RNA gel-blot analysis was performed as described (Ho et al. CITATION). Ten micrograms of total RNA was separated on 1 % agarose gel containing 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5), transferred to a Hybond N1 membrane (GE Healthcare, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) and hybridized at 42 °C with a DNA probe radiolabeled by [α32P] dCTP. For RNA loading controls, 25S, 18S, and 5.8S rDNA in pRY18 (Sano and Sano CITATION) were excised with BamHI and used as probes. The quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses were performed using the FastStart Essential DNA Green Master (Roche, Basel, Switerland) and the iQ5 real-time PCR machine (Bio-RAD, Hercules, CA, USA). Results were repeated independently at least three times and relative gene expression was expressed as a ratio of target gene mRNA to that of rice 18S rRNA. Data were analyzed using the iQ5 2.1 software program provided by the manufacturer. Gene-specific primers used for qRT-PCR are listed in Table S2. To construct vectors for the production of recombinant OsCAF1 proteins, full-length OsCAF1s were amplified using PCR by gene-specific primers with cDNA derived from rice suspension cells. The PCR-amplified OsCAF1A, OsCAF1G and OsCAF1H fragments were cloned into pET28b (Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany); OsCAF1B fragment was cloned into pET21a (Merck KGaA). Expression vectors for plant cell subcellular localization (Curtis and Grossniklaus CITATION) were constructed using the Gateway cloning system as follows. The coding sequences of OsCAF1, AtXRN4, AtfABP2 and AtKSS12 genes without a stop codon were amplified using PCR and subcloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) to generate entry clones. Using LR clonase (Invitrogen), recombination was conducted to transfer target gene fragments from entry clones to destination vectors, pMDC43, pMDC85 or pMDC139 (Brand et al. CITATION; Jia et al. CITATION), to generate the N-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP), C-terminal GFP or C-terminal GUS fusion constructs, respectively. To construct the OsCAF1B-mCherry expression vector, we generated mCherry destination vector by replacing the GFP with mCherry in pMDC43 and pMDC85. Primers used for construction are listed in Table S2. Recombinant OsCAF1A, OsCAF1G and OsCAF1H protein expression and purification were performed as previously described (Feddersen et al. CITATION) with slight modifications. E. coli BL21 (DE3) containing expression plasmids were grown in 3 L LB medium with kanamycin at 37 °C until a density of OD600 = 0.6–0.8 was reached. Recombinant proteins were induced with 0.5 mM IPTG and incubated at 20 °C overnight. Cells were harvested and resuspended using Buffer A (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.0, 300 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol (BME), 20 mM imidazole, 10 % glycerol and 1 mM PMSF) and lysed by sonication. The crude extract was centrifuged at 12,000 rpm at 4 °C, and then passed through a 0.45-μm nonpyrogenic filter. The protein solution was loaded on a HisTrap column (GE Healthcare) preequilibrated in Buffer A, and then washed with Buffer B (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.0, 1 M KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM BME), and eluted with Buffer C (containing 500 mM imidazole in Buffer A). The elution was dialyzed using buffer D (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.0, 200 mM NaCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM BME, 10 % glycerol). The recombinant proteins were further purified by gel filtration using HiLoad 26/60 Superdex-75 size-exclusion column (GE Healthcare) with 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.0), 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM BME, 10 % glycerol. Fraction containing rOsCAF1A, rOsCAF1G or rOsCAF1H was concentrated using a Vivaspin centrifugal concentrator (GE Healthcare), and soluble protein was determined using the Bradford method (Bradford CITATION). For OsCAF1B protein expression, E. coli. Rosetta2 (DE3) containing OsCAF1 B expression plasmid was grown in 3 L LB medium with kanamycin at 25 °C until OD600 = 0.6–0.8 was reached. Recombinant proteins were induced with 0.5 mM IPTG and incubated at 20 °C overnight. After sonication, centrifugation and filtration, the total proteins were precipitated by ammonium sulfate (20–40 %). The pellet was dissolved in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.0, 150 mM NaCl and 10 % glycerol, and then desalted by HiPrep desalting FF column (GE Healthcare) and purified by HiPrep Sp FF column (GE heakthcare) and HiLoad 26/60 Superdex-75 size-exclusion column (GE Healthcare). The purified proteins were enriched using centrifugal concentrator and determined by Bradford method. The 5′-FAM-labeled RNA substrates, 5′-/56-FAM/UCUAAAUAAAAAAA, were synthesized by Integrated DNA technology (Integrated DNA Technologies, Coralville, Iowa, USA). In vitro enzymatic assay was conducted at 30 °C in 20 μL of a reaction buffer (50 mM Tris–Cl, pH 7.0, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 10 % glycerol) with 1 μmol RNA substrate and 1 μg of recombinant OsCAF1 proteins. After incubation, denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed as previously described (Rio et al. CITATION). The RNA gel was visualized using LAS-4000 (GE Healthcare). The onion bulb epidermis was prepared and particle bombardment was executed as described by (Scott et al. CITATION) to introduce GFP, mCherry or GUS expression vectors using a PDS-1000 biolistic device (Bio-Rad) at 1,100 p.s.i. Bombarded specimens were incubated on MS solid medium for 6 h, and were then observed using an Olympus IX71 (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) inverted fluorescence microscope. Confocal observation was conducted using a Zeiss LSM710 microscope (Carl Zeiss Microscopy GmbH, Jena, Germany). Serial optical sections of images were captured on a Zeiss LSM710 microscope. For analysis of GUS activity, bombarded onion bulb epidermis were incubated on MS solid medium for 6 h and were then incubated in GUS staining solution at 37 °C overnight, as described by Jefferson et al. (CITATION). The specimens were observed and photographed using a Zeiss LSM510 microscope (Carl Zeiss Microscopy GmbH). Images were analyzed using Zeiss LSM Image Browser software.
