!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana genome includes three genes for mitochondrial dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase, the E2-component of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). Two genes encode E2-proteins with a single lipoyl domain, while the third has a two-lipoyl domain structure. Transcripts for each E2 protein were expressed in all plant organs. Each recombinant AtmtE2 can individually form an icosahedral PDC core structure, and results from bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays are consistent with formation of hetero-core structures from all permutations of the AtmtE2 proteins. We propose a unique regulatory mechanism involving dynamic formation of hetero-core complexes that include both mono- and di-lipoyl forms of AtmtE2.
!~RES~! Using the mono-lipoyl ZmmtE2 amino acid sequence as the search parameter, a total of five A. thaliana dihydrolipoyl acetyltransferase sequences were retrieved using the tblastn algorithm. More divergent sequences, annotated as branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex E2 and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex E2, were not included in subsequent analyses. The PDC E2 sequences were encoded at loci At1g54220, At3g13930, At3g52200, At3g25860, and At1g34430. The At3g52200-encoded sequence is clearly a di-lipoyl E2, while the other four sequences encode mono-lipoyl proteins. The five deduced amino acid sequences were each subjected to in silico analysis to predict subcellular localization. Using three different algorithms, the proteins encoded at loci At3g25860 and At1g34430 were predicted to be plastidial rather than mitochondrial, and were excluded from further analyses. The plastidial localization of the protein encoded by At3g25860 has been verified experimentally (CITATION). The three remaining A. thaliana PDC E2 sequences (At1g54220, AtmtE2IA; At3g13930, AtmtE2IB; and At3g52200, AtmtE2II) were predicted to be mitochondrial, with the mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS) immediately N-terminal of the outer lipoyl domain. Based on alignment with ZmmtE2 (CITATION), the predicted N-terminal residues of the imported and processed AtmtE2 proteins are Ser103 for both AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB, and Ser78 of AtmtE2II. Using the predicted sites of cleavage, the AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB polypeptides, minus the MTS, are 438 amino acids with deduced molecular weights of 46,976 and 47,229Da respectively. Minus the MTS, AtmtE2II is 561 amino acids with a deduced molecular weight of 60,361Da. The AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB protein sequences are 65% identical with the mono-lipoyl maize E2 sequence, whereas AtmtE2II is 37% identical. The partial AtmtE2II sequence, which has been previously described as having the two lipoyl domains (CITATION) typical of mammalian E2 proteins, is 42% identical with the human and rat PDC E2 sequences. All three AtmtE2 sequences were approximately 37% identical with human, rat, and yeast E3BP. In order to gain insight into the sequence/function relationships, E2 and E3BP primary sequences from a variety of organisms were aligned. It was anticipated that the analyzed population would separate into clades of mono-lipoyl E2, di-lipoyl E2, and E3BP sequences, but this was not the result obtained (CITATION ). Instead there is no clear pattern of sequence distribution. The upper half of the phylogram contains the fungal E3BP sequences, the plastidial E2 sequences, all three sequences from the red nanoalga Cyanidioschyzon merolae, and the plant mitochondrial di-lipoyl E2 sequences. The lower half of the phylogram contains the plant mitochondrial mono-lipoyl E2 sequences, the fungal and vertebrate E2 sequences, and the nematode and vertebrate E3BP sequences (CITATION). Broadly similar results were obtained by individual comparison of the lipoyl, SBD, and catalytic domains (data not shown). While these results suggest that neither AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB, nor AtmtE2II is actually an E3BP, it does not convincingly discount the possibility. The sequence relationships were unchanged when the in silico-predicted MTS was not included in the analyses. All three AtmtE2 sequences include the conserved -Asp-Lys-Ala- site of cofactor attachment (Lys) (CITATION), and the presumptive catalytic His residue (CITATION) (His610 in the AtmtE2II sequence). This “catalytic His” residue is absent from E3BP sequences. The SBD of AtmtE2IA and B are both approximately 30% identical with that of AtmtE2II. Alignment of the primary sequences of the PDC E2 and E3BP SBD from various organisms revealed a general conservation of the two positively charged residues implicated in E3 binding (CITATION). In the AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB sequences, both of these positively charged residues are conserved. In the AtmtE2II sequence, the first residue (Lys336) is conserved but at the second position, residue 357, a Thr replaces the conserved Arg. Screening the GENEVESTIGATOR A. thaliana microarray database (CITATION) revealed expression of each of the AtmtPDCE2 transcripts in all samples studied (CITATIONA). In all instances expression of AtmtE2IB was significantly higher than that of AtmtE2IA or AtmtE2II, which typically were similarly expressed. Among a wide range of physiological manipulations, only cold stress (4°C) of A. thaliana roots resulted in a significant response – elevation of AtmtE2IB expression (data not presented). Direct analysis of transcript abundance by RT-PCR yielded results similar to those from the microarray database (CITATIONB). The E2IB transcript was always the most abundant, whereas E2II and E2IA were typically present at similar, lower levels. The differences in expression levels among the three AtmtE2 mRNAs were smaller than the microarray results when analyzed by RT-PCR, particularly for E2IB. As shown in CITATION , plants transformed with the AtmtE2IB:GUS construct had a widespread pattern of reporter expression throughout. The AtmtE2IB:GUS signal was high in the roots of 6-day-old seedlings. In contrast, expression of AtmtE2II:GUS was undetectable during early postgerminative growth, but increased, particularly surrounding the vasculature, during expansion and greening of the cotyledons (CITATION). Expression of AtmtE2IB:GUS was high in the stigma but apparently absent from pollen. In contrast, expression of AtmtE2II:GUS was high in pollen, but apparently absent from female flower parts (CITATION). The expression of both AtmtE2IB and AtmtE2II was high in the vasculature leading into the siliques. While the expression of AtmtE2IB was high throughout the silique walls, there was no obvious AtmtE2II expression in this tissue. Although we verified the presence of the AtmtE2IA:GUS construct in transformed plants, no reporter expression was ever detected. This lack of expression persisted through several independent transformations, and the use of constructs that included more or less of the presumptive promoter region, the first exon, etc. To facilitate characterization of the AtE2 proteins in vitro, each was expressed in Escherichia coli. The mono-lipoyl proteins were highly expressed after induction with IPTG, representing approximately 50% of soluble protein (CITATION ). The di-lipoyl AtmtE2II protein was expressed to a lower extent and tended to be less soluble. Upon SDS-PAGE, the Mr values for the proteins were approximately 10,000 greater than the deduced molecular weight for AtmtE2IA and AtmtE2IB, and 20,000 greater than for AtmtE2II. In the absence of added lipoic acid, a doublet of recombinant protein bands was seen on SDS-gels (data not shown), indicating that the expression of a large amount of heterologous protein exceeded the capacity of E. coli cells to synthesize the cofactor. When cultures were supplemented with lipoic acid, single AtmtE2 protein species were seen, suggesting that the recombinant enzymes are fully lipoylated. The rate of transfer of [1-14C] acetate from [1-14C]acetyl-CoA to dihydrolipoamide was measured for each recombinant AtmtE2 protein. All assays were linear in terms of time and enzyme concentration. The AtmtE2IB protein consistently had a much higher specific activity (348±37μmol [1-14C] acetate min−1 mg−1) than did AtmtE2IA (12.3±0.1μmolmin−1 mg−1) or AtmtE2II (19.4±0.9μmolmin−1 mg−1). The specific activity of recombinant AtmtE2IB is 20-fold higher than the values reported for recombinant PDC E2 proteins from human, bovine, and maize (CITATION ). Rate-zonal sedimentation and size-exclusion chromatography were used to analyze the quaternary structures of the recombinant AtE2 proteins. The size of the E2 structure was estimated by rate-zonal sedimentation analysis using 10–50% (v/v) glycerol density gradients (CITATION ). The majority of each AtmtE2 protein was in gradient fractions corresponding to 30% glycerol, indicating formation of a large quaternary structure. A Superose 6 size exclusion column was used to verify that E2 monomers had associated to form structures larger than trimers. The E2 monomers would be expected to elute from the column in the included 50–60kDa range, trimers would elute around 150–180kDa, and the characteristic 60-mer E2 core is so large that it is excluded from a Superose 6 column and elutes in the void volume (data not presented). The sedimentation and size-exclusion chromatography results demonstrate that all three of the AtmtE2 proteins form core structures of approximately 2.5MDa, consistent with assembly of a 60-mer. In order to verify assembly into distinct quaternary structures, samples were visualized by negative-staining transmission electron microscopy. Each AtmtE2 protein exhibited a homogeneous population of dodecahedron-like core structures at a magnification of 100×. The data for AtmtE2IB are presented in CITATIONC. Upon closer inspection, the three axes of icosahedral symmetry are visible in the electron micrographs of the cores (data not presented). All three forms of the E2 core structure were 24±0.4nm in diameter. A bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay (CITATION) was used to test the possibility that core structures (hetero-cores) could be formed from combinations of AtmtE2 subunits. For ease of analysis the BiFC studies were conducted using E. coli cells as surrogate mitochondria. There was no signal when cells were transformed with YN plus YC as a control, verifying that the EYFP does not self-associate. Fluorescence signals were observed when complementing the cognate C- and N-terminal halves of each of the AtmtE2 proteins, although the signal was less bright with E2IB (CITATION ). Changing time or temperature (CITATION) had no substantial effect on the lower fluorescence signal of E2IB. Quantifying the signals using fluorescence cell sorting verified the subjective observations (CITATION). Combinatorial analyses yielded fluorescence complementation among all of the AtmtE2 subunits, a result consistent with the formation of hetero-cores.
!~MM~! The tBLASTn algorithm was used to search the non-redundant A. thaliana database of GenBank (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), using the amino acid sequence of the Zea mays mitochondrial PDC E2 (ZmmtE2, accession AF135014) as the search parameter. The full-length deduced amino acid sequences were aligned using the PHYLIP function of DNAMAN version 4.3 (Lynnon BioSoft, Vaudreuil, Quebec, Canada), and 1000 rounds of bootstrapping. The TreeView algorithm (version 1.6.1) was used for sequence alignments and comparison (CITATION). Three different programs were used for prediction of subcellular localization: TargetP (CITATION), Predotar (CITATION), and PCLR (CITATION). GENEVESTIGATOR was used to search and analyze microarray transcript-profiling data (CITATION). Young seedlings, leaves, flowers, stems, siliques, and seeds were harvested from greenhouse-grown A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 plants. Samples were processed immediately for total RNA isolation, and the RNA was subsequently reverse-transcribed to produce DNA. Gene specific primers were made to a 500bp region of each E2 sequence for use in the PCR (AtmtE2IA, DDR 328, GCGAATTCATGGCTTATGCGTCACGCATCATT, DDR 355, TTGGCGAGATAGCCCTCTTCC; AtmtE2IB, DDR 363, AAGCCAAGCTCAGCTCCTTCAGAAG, DDR372, GGCGGATGTATTCATCTGTCC; AtmtE2II, DDR95, GCATCTAGAAGTCCTGCTGCAAAG, DDR99, GCAGTCGACAGATTTCTGGTCTGC). Conditions for thermal cycling were as described previously (CITATION). The RT-PCR products were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and stained with EtBr, and the bands were quantified using 1-D gel imaging software (Eastman Kodak, New Haven, CT). Values were corrected for variation in sample loading using a 300bp 18S rRNA internal standard (Ambion, Austin TX). The promoter region of each E2 (~1.5kb 5′ of the ATG start codon) was amplified from A. thaliana leaf genomic DNA by PCR using primers specific for E2IA (DDR499; 5′-tccctgcaggCTAACTCCAAGATTATCG-3′, DDR496; 5′-cgggatccCATTGATGCACTATCGTT-3′), E2IB (DDR498; 5′-tccctgcaggTCGAGATAATAGATAGAC-3′, DDR494; 5′-cgggatccCATTGTTGTGCAATCGGA-3′) and E2II (DDR497; 5′-tccctgcaggCAATAGTTAAAGAGTATT-3′, DDR492; 5′-cgggatccCATGAGAGCACTTGGAGA-3′). Additional bases added to facilitate cloning are in italics, start codons are in bold, and engineered restriction endonuclease cleavage sites are lowercase. The CaMV 35S promoter region was excised from the pBI121 [(CITATION), AF485783] plant transformation vector using SbfI and BamHI restriction sites, and replaced with an AtmtE2 promoter regions to drive in planta expression of β-glucuronidase (GUS). Constructs were verified by sequencing and then used to transform Agrobacterium tumafaciens strain GV3101. Bolting A. thaliana plants were transformed by floral dip (CITATION) and grown to maturity, and seeds were collected. Seeds were plated on solid media containing 30μg/mL kan to identify transformants. At least 15 transformants (for each construct) were transferred to soil and grown to maturity. The seeds of these plants were subjected to kan-selection, and survivors were used for histochemical staining with X-gluc using vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Plants were stained in the dark at 37°C for 8–18h and then cleared by multiple washes in 70% ethanol. After de-staining, samples were viewed and photographed using a Leica MZFLIII stereo microscope equipped with an Optronics MagnaFire digital camera, at the University of Missouri Molecular Cytology Core Facility (http://www.biotech.missouri.edu/mcc/). Oligonucleotides were designed to amplify the complete open reading frame (ORF) for each of the AtmtE2 proteins. The primary sequences for AtmtE2IB (AF367302) and AtmtE2II [CAA86300] were verified relative to GenBank accessions from the A. thaliana genome project. However, our sequence for AtE2IA differed from the original accession. The corrected sequence of the full-length ORF is in GenBank as AY033001. Oligonucleotides were designed to amplify each AtE2 ORF minus the mitochondrial targeting sequences (MTS). The position of the MTS cleavage site for each E2 was predicted based upon the N-terminal sequence of native ZmmtE2 (CITATION). The amplified products correspond to the region of the ORF between 307 and 1620bp for E2IA and E2IB (DDR 403; 5′-ccatggttTCATCGGGTTCAGAT-3′ and DDR 367; 5′-gggaactcgagTTAGAGTAACATAGATTTAGG-3′, and DDR 404; 5′-ccatggttTCATCCAGTTCAGATC-3′ and DDR 304; 5′-ccggagctcTTAGAGCAACATAGATTCTGGG-3′, respectively), and 232–1914bp for E2II (DDR 435; 5′-cccgcgcatatgTCATCTACAGGACCCATATCA-3′ and DDR 260; 5′-gggcccctcgagTCACAGAAGAAGTCTTCG-3′). Additional bases used to facilitate cloning are in italics, stop codons are bold, and engineered restriction endonuclease cleavage sites are in lowercase letters. Primers for PCR were synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies (Coralville, IA). Unless otherwise noted, all biochemicals were from the Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). Each ORF was amplified using the QIAGEN One-step RT-PCR kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA). Template (total) RNA was extracted from flowering greenhouse-grown A. thaliana ecotype Col 1 leaves using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (QIAGEN). Approximately 5ng of total leaf RNA was used per 15μL RT-PCR reaction. Amplifications followed the manufacturer’s instructions for reverse transcription and Taq activation, and the three-step cycling consisted of 94°C, 30s, 60°C, 60s, 72°C, 90s for 35cycles, followed by a final extension at 72°C for 10min. The RT-PCR products were purified by agarose gel electrophoresis and then ligated with pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Plasmid DNA was isolated using a standard alkaline-lysis method, and samples were analyzed by restriction nuclease digestion (all nucleases were from New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). Inserts were excised from the positive clones using the respective engineered restriction sites and then ligated with pET28b or pET28c (Novagen, Madison, WI). Plasmids were isolated, and the sequences were verified by the University of Missouri DNA Core Facility (http://www.biotech.missouri.edu/dnacore/). Final clones were used to transform E. coli BL21* DE3 cells (Invitrogen) for protein expression. Essentially identical protocols were used for expression and purification of each of the AtmtE2 proteins. Fifteen milliliters of an overnight culture was used to inoculate 500mL of LB plus kan. Cells were grown at 37°C with shaking to an A600 of 0.5 followed by IPTG addition to a final concentration of 0.1mM. DL-lipoic acid was added to a final concentration of 1mM to ensure complete lipoylation of the induced proteins. The cultures were shifted to room temperature and allowed to shake slowly overnight, and then harvested by centrifugation and frozen at −70°C. For purification of recombinant AtE2, cells were resuspended in 50mL of ice-cold lysis-buffer (20mM TES-KOH, pH7.4, 0.2mM NaCl, 10mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 5mM EDTA, 1mM PMSF, 1mM benzamidine, 1% (v/v) Triton X-100) and then sonicated (Fisher Scientific Sonic Dismembrator, model 500) for 1min at half the maximum amplitude, using 10s pulses followed by 10s pauses. Sonicates were centrifuged at 10,000g for 30min at 4°C, and the pellets were discarded. Approximately 2.5mL of each clarified-supernatant was subjected to rate-zonal sedimentation in a 10–50% glycerol gradient as described by CITATION. Gradient fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. The relative amount of protein in each lane was estimated by densitometry (Kodak 1-D image analysis software, New Haven, CT). The peak fractions were pooled and the protein concentrations were determined by the method of Bradford (CITATION), using BSA as the standard. Two hundred microliters of the pooled AtmtE2 glycerol gradient fractions was loaded onto a Superose 6 column (GE Healthcare Life Sciences, Piscataway, NJ) equilibrated at room temperature with 40mM TES-KOH, pH7.4, 150mM KCl and 1mM DTT. The column was run 0.2mL/min, and protein peaks were detected at A280. The transfer of [14C] acetate from [1-14C]acetyl-CoA (PerkinElmer Life and Analytical Sciences, Inc., Boston, MA, 148MBq/mmol) to dihydrolipoamide was assayed as described by CITATION, with minor modifications. The 500μL reactions contained, at a final concentration, 25mM Tris–HCl, pH7.4, 2mM reduced dihydrolipoamide, 1.25mM [1-14C]acetyl-CoA (925Bq), and recombinant enzyme. Reactions were initiated with 50μL of 20mM dihydrolipoamide, and continued at room temperature for 1min. To extract the labeled product, 750μL of benzene was added, and samples were vortexed-mixed and then centrifuged. Five hundred microliters of the benzene phase was removed and analyzed by liquid scintillation spectrometry (Beckman model 1701 LSC). Enzyme specific activities were calculated as μmol [1-14C]acetyl-dihydrolipoamide formed per min per mg recombinant protein. Controls for background subtraction included use of the boiled recombinant protein or oxidized dihydrolipoamide. Purified recombinant AtmtE2 protein samples from Superose 6 size exclusion chromatography were diluted to 0.1mg/mL. Approximately 100μL of the protein solutions was applied to carbon-coated copper grids. Adherent proteins were negatively stained with 1.3% (w/v) phosphotungstic acid for 5min at room temperature and then visualized with a Hitachi H-600 electron microscope at 100kV. The TEM analyses were conducted at the University of Missouri Electron Microscopy Core Facility (http://www.biotech.missouri.edu/emc/). The halves of EYFP (pEYFP-C1, BD Biosci Clontech, Mountain View, CA) were PCR-amplified using Native Pfu polymerase (Promega, Madison, WI); codons 1–155 comprise YN, while codons 156–239 comprise YC, and the coding sequence of each AtmtE2 orf from the codon (203 of E2IA and E2IB, and 302 of EII) corresponding to the first amino acid of the loop that precedes the SBD to the stop codon. The YN and YC PCR products include NdeI and XbaI restriction sites, and the corresponding E2 PCR products include XbaI and XhoI restriction sites. The primers DDR710 (5′-ATTCcatatgGTGAGCAAGGGCGAG-3′) and DDR726 (5′-CGggatccTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATG) were used to amplify full-length EYFP. For the YN constructs, primers DDR710 (5′-ATTCcatatgGTGAGCAAGGGCGAG-3′) and DDR711 (5′-GCtctagaGGCCATGATATAGACGTTG-3′) were used, and for the YC constructs primers DDR712 (5′-ATTCcatatgGACAAGCAGAAGAACGGCAT-3′) and DDR713 (5′-GCtctagaCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATG-3′) were used. For the E2IA fusion constructs, DDR714 (5′-GCtctagaTCTACTGCTGATGCCGCTC-3′) and DDR715 (5′-CCGctcgagTTAGAGTAACATAGATTTAGG-3′) were used, while for E2IB fusions DDR716 (5′-GCtctagaTCCGATACTGGTCCCGCT-3′) and DDR717 (5′-CCGctcgagTTAGAGCAACAACATAGATTC-3′) were used. Finally, for the E2II fusion constructs, primers DDR718 (5′-GCtctagaGCAGGTAGTTCTGAGGTTG-3′) and DDR719 (5′-CCGctcgagTCACAGAAGAAGTCTTCGAA-3′) were used. The final constructs were obtained by a three-way ligation which additionally included NdeI plus XhoI-digested pET vectors (pET21b or pET29b). All constructs were verified by sequencing and then electroporated into E. coli BL21 (DE3) host cells. Cells co-transformed with the YN-E2 and YC-E2 constructs were used for the BiFC analysis. Control cells were co-transformed with YN plus YC. In all instances, 3mL of LB medium containing 50μg/mL kan and 100μg/mL amp was inoculated with 90μL of an overnight culture and incubated 1.5h before inducing protein expression by adding IPTG to a final concentration of 1mM. After 3h the cells were washed and transferred to LB plus antibiotics for confocal microscopy or to PBS for flow cytometry. Incubation/induction conditions were optimized, and similar results were obtained when the cells were cultured at room temperature in liquid LB or on LB plates (CITATION), and analyzed with either fluorescence microscopy or flow cytometry. Microscopy was carried out at the University of Missouri Molecular Cytology Core facility (http://www.biotech.missouri.edu/mcc/) using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta NLO 2-Photon (Zeiss, Germany) instrument. Excitation and emission wavelengths were 488nm and 500–550nm. The LSM Examiner (Zeiss) and Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems) programs were used to process the images. Flow cytometry analysis was carried out at the University of Missouri Cell and Immunology Core facility (http://biotech.rnet.missouri.edu/cic/) using a FACSCalibur instrument and CellQuest software (Becton Dickinson, UK). For each sample 50,000–100,000 events were acquired. The FL1 channel (510–540nm) was used to collect YFP fluorescence.
