!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates numerous physiological and developmental processes in plants. Recent studies identify intracellular ABA receptors, implicating the transport of ABA across cell membranes as crucial for ABA sensing and response. Here, we report that a DTX/Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion (MATE) family member in Arabidopsis thaliana , AtDTX50, functions as an ABA efflux transporter. When expressed heterologously in both an Escherichia coli strain and Xenopus oocyte cells, AtDTX50 was found to facilitate ABA efflux. Furthermore, dtx50 mutant mesophyll cells preloaded with ABA released less ABA compared with the wild-type (WT). The AtDTX50 gene was expressed mainly in the vascular tissues and guard cells and its expression was strongly up-regulated by exogenous ABA. The AtDTX50::GFP fusion protein was localized predominantly to the plasma membrane. The dtx50 mutant plants were observed to be more sensitive to ABA in growth inhibition. In addition, compared with the WT, dtx50 mutant plants were more tolerant to drought with lower stomatal conductance, consistent with its function as an ABA efflux carrier in guard cells.
!~RES~! After initial characterization of the DTX/MATE family ( CITATION ), we carried out a comprehensive reverse genetic analysis of all the family members using T-DNA insertion mutants in Arabidopsis. Homozygous insertion line(s) of 12 genes were initially identified and compared with the WT plants. When grown on ½ MS medium or in the soil under normal greenhouse conditions, most of these mutant lines did not show any obvious difference from the WT ( CITATION , showing part of the screening). However, an insertion mutant of the DTX50 gene was found to be significantly smaller and more yellowish when grown in the soil ( CITATION and CITATION ). This mutant did not show much phenotypic difference from the WT when grown on ½ MS medium ( CITATION ). The dtx50 mutant carries a T-DNA insertion in the only exon of the At5g52050 gene ( CITATION ). RT–PCR showed that DTX50 mRNA was not detectable in the mutant line ( CITATION ), and the phenotype was complemented by transforming the mutant plants with DTX50 complementation construct ( CITATION ). Since the MATE/DTX family was previously reported to transport toxic compounds and organic acids, we further tested the dtx50 mutant on growth medium supplied with several organic acids including citrate, malate, anthocyanidin, tetramethylammonium, and alkaloids, and no difference was observed. But, interestingly, when tested on growth medium supplied with plant hormones, including gibberellic acid (GA), JA, auxins, and ABA, which all fall into the organic acid category, dtx50 plants showed a more severe growth inhibition by ABA as compared to the WT, but no difference was found on other hormones tested. When 2-week-old seedlings were transferred onto ½ MS medium containing ABA (at concentration of 5 μM and 20 μM), dtx50 plants displayed bleached leaves, shorter primary roots, and fewer lateral roots. The complementation line DTX50/dtx50 showed a similar phenotype to the WT ( CITATION – CITATION and CITATION ). Further, on ABA-containing medium, the dtx50 mutant died much earlier than the WT and complementation plants, namely the aerial parts of dtx50 plants, turned brown and dried sooner than the WT ( CITATION ). To further investigate ABA responses in the mutant, we performed germination assays. On ½ MS medium without ABA, the dtx50 mutant seeds germinated more slowly as compared with the WT seeds in a time course analysis ( CITATION , left). On ½ MS medium containing ABA, the mutant seeds showed a lower germination rate at all ABA concentrations tested ( CITATION , right), suggesting that seed germination of the dtx50 mutant is hypersensitive to ABA. The dtx50 mutant showed growth inhibition by ABA and was hypersensitive to ABA in seed germination, suggesting that the mutant may accumulate more ABA and/or is altered in ABA response. We thus compared ABA contents of WT, dtx50 mutant, and complementation lines. When grown in the soil or on ½ MS medium, leaves of dtx50 plants contained a higher level of ABA ( CITATION ). Furthermore, real-time quantitative PCR (Q–PCR) showed that the expression of several ABA marker genes was up-regulated in the dtx50 mutant. Among four tested marker genes, three of them, including ABF1 , ABI1 , and RD29B , were found to be expressed at a higher level (two- to three-fold increase), although expression of RD29A was not altered ( CITATION ). We concluded that dtx50 accumulates more ABA in the cell of rosette leaves thus increasing the level of ABA response. From results described above, ABA hypersensitivity in the mutant may have been caused by higher ABA levels in the cell. As DTX50 belongs to the DTX/MATE family transporters that often mediate efflux of organic acids, we suspected that DTX50 may function as an ABA efflux transporter. This would be consistent with the hyperaccumulation of ABA in the mutant. Therefore, we tested this hypothesis by transport assays using three different systems including an Escherichia coli mutant line (KAM3), Xenopus oocytes, and Arabidopsis protoplasts. KAM3 mutant carries a deletion in the chromosomal AcrAB genes, and is therefore sensitive to many drugs that are substrates of the AcrAB efflux system ( CITATION ). Cells were preloaded with H 3 -ABA, and ABA release was measured by monitoring the radioactivity retained in the cells. The results showed that KAM3 cells expressing DTX50 (pTrc99A–DTX50) retained less ABA—that is, released more—than the control (pTrc99A) ( CITATION ). Similar results were observed by a different assay using unlabeled ABA detected by an ABA immunoassay kit ( CITATION ). These results indicated that cells expressing DTX50 released more ABA to the medium and thus suggested that DTX50 mediates ABA efflux. Further evidence for AtDTX50 as an ABA efflux transporter was obtained by expression of DTX50 in the Xenopus oocytes. A final concentration of 50 μM 3 H-ABA was injected into oocytes, and the ABA released into the buffer was monitored. Oocytes expressing DTX50 ( DTX50 cRNA-injected) released more ABA than the control (water-injected) along the same time course ( CITATION ). These results indicated that AtDTX50 functions as an ABA efflux transporter in both heterologous systems. To verify that DTX50 played a role in ABA efflux in planta , we performed ABA release experiments using mesophyll protoplasts from the WT and dtx50 plants. Similarly, 3 H-ABA was preloaded into the protoplasts, and ABA release was detected by the radiolabeled ABA retained in the cells. The results showed significantly less ABA release from dtx50 cells when compared with those from the WT and the complementation line ( CITATION ). Taken together, these data strongly supported the conclusion that DTX50 functions as an ABA efflux transporter. To evaluate substrate specificity of DTX50, substrate competition assays experiments were performed ( CITATION ). Results showed that DTX50 displayed a higher affinity for (+/–) ABA than (–/–) ABA as its substrate. Other tested plant hormones, such as GA and indoleacetic acid (IAA), did not inhibit the 3 H-ABA release. These results suggest that AtDTX50 specifically mediates ABA (+/–) efflux, and does not transport GA or IAA. In order to analyze the expression patterns of the DTX50 gene, we first performed a set of real-time Q–PCR experiments, and the results showed that DTX50 was expressed at a significantly higher level in leaves than other tissues including roots, stems, flowers, and siliques ( CITATION ). When 2-week-old seedlings were transferred to ½ MS medium containing 5 μM ABA and incubated for 1–3 d, the levels of DTX50 gene expression increased ( CITATION ). To further investigate the tissue-specific and ABA-inducible expression pattern, promoter region (2.0kb upstream) of AtDTX50 gene was fused to the β- glucuronidase (GUS) reporter and transformed into Arabidopsis. We found that GUS activity was detected mainly in the vascular tissues of leaves, roots, and germinating seeds, but not detectable in stems, flowers, or siliques ( CITATION , CITATION – CITATION ). After treatment with 100 μM ABA, GUS activity was strongly up-regulated in guard cells, mesophyll cells, and vascular tissues ( CITATION , CITATION – CITATION ). To determine the subcellular localization of DTX50, we made a DTX50::GFP fusion construct under the control of AtDTX50 -promoter (referred to as DTX50pr–DTX50::GFP ), and transiently transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts. Fluorescence signal produced by DTX50pr–DTX50::GFP was weak in mesophyll protoplasts when incubated in the buffer without ABA. As DTX50 was inducible by ABA treatment in the mesophyll cells, we added ABA to a final 100 μM into the protoplast buffer and found that the fluorescence signal appeared predominantly at the plasma membrane 3h after the treatment ( CITATION and CITATION ). Further evidence supporting a plasma membrane localization of DTX50 was obtained using transient expression in onion epidermal cells. When 35S–DTX50::GFP plasmid was delivered into the onion epidermal cells by bombardment, the transient expression of GFP was observed on the plasma membrane ( CITATION ). These data strongly suggest that DTX50 is a plasma membrane-localized protein, consistent with its role in ABA efflux. As described above, DTX50 may function as an ABA efflux transporter that controls ABA accumulation in various cell types. It is thus possible that DTX50 may be involved in drought-stress response. We tested this possibility by withholding water for 4 weeks from 4-week-old plants under short-day greenhouse conditions. We found that leaves of the dtx50 mutant wilted more slowly than those of the WT or complementation plants, and the stems of dtx50 held upright for longer as well ( CITATION ). Furthermore, overexpression plants showed more rapid wilting under drought stress ( CITATION ). This indicated that dtx50 mutant plants may have lost water more slowly than the WT plants. Indeed, when we measured water loss from WT and mutant rosette leaves at 25°C with 50% humidity under the light, detached leaves of dtx50 plants lost water more slowly than those of WT plants ( CITATION ). We further measured stomatal movement in response to ABA in the mutant and WT plants. Leaves of both dtx50 and WT plants were pre-incubated in stomatal opening buffer for 3h, followed by addition of 1 μM ABA into the buffer. Stomatal aperture was measured every 30min for a total of 90min. The results showed that stomata closed more rapidly in dtx50 mutant than in WT in response to ABA ( CITATION ). Taken together, these data suggest that more ABA may have accumulated in the dtx50 guard cells, which in turn caused more rapid stomatal closure under drought conditions. Reduced stomatal aperture in mutant plants may be responsible for the better tolerance to drought stress.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil under greenhouse conditions (24°C; 16/8h day/night; 80–100 μmol m −2 s −1 light) or on ½ MS medium supplied with 1× vitamin, 0.5% sucrose, and 0.8% agar in a growth chamber (22/18°C; 16/8h day/night; 80 μmol m −2 s −1 light). Mutant seeds were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC), and dtx50 mutant is as SALK_098350. For each AtDTX50 promoter construct, an approximately 2.0-kb fragment upstream of the start codon was PCR amplified using primers listed in CITATION . The purified fragment was then cloned into pGEM®-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI) and verified by sequencing. Then, the AtDTX50 promoter fragment was released by cutting with Bam HI and Xba I and inserted into binary vector pBI101. AtDTX50 gene with promoter was PCR amplified from genomic DNA and put into pCambia1300 using Bam HI and Xba I sites; and put into the pCambia1302 with the 35S promoter region deleted. The AtDTX50 gene was PCR amplified and put into the pCambia1302 vector and pTrc 99A vector. For complementation experiments, pCambia1300–NP–AtDTX50 plasmid was transformed into Agrobacteria GV3101 and then transformed into atdtx50 mutant by the floral dip method ( CITATION ). pCambia1302–35s–AtDTX50 was transformed into WT Arabidopsis plants (Col-0) to make DTX50 overexpression plants. Control transformations were performed with empty vectors of pCAMBIA1300 into dtx50 and plasmid pCAMBIA1302 with 35S–eGFP fragment into WT. The ABA concentration in leaves was measured with a Phytodetek ABA enzyme immunoassay test kit (Agdia; Elkhart, IN, USA). Frozen samples were pulverized under liquid nitrogen, extracted with the solution of 80% methanol, 100 mg L −1 butylated hydroxytoluene and 0.5 g L −1 citric acid monohydrate. 8 ml was added to about 100mg of tissue, stirred overnight at 4°C in the dark, and subsequently centrifuged at 1000 g for 20min at 4°C. The supernatant was transferred to a new tube and dried under vacuum. The dried residue was dissolved in 100 μl of 100% methanol and 900 μl of TBS buffer (50 mM Tris/0.1 mM MgCl 2 ·6H 2 O/0.15M NaCl (pH 7.8)) and analyzed directly or diluted with TBS to bring ABA levels within the linear range of the ABA standard curve of the assay. Total RNA was extracted from roots, leaves, flowers, stems, and siliques. Samples were collected from Col-0 plants grown in soil for 4 weeks. Samples of dtx50 mutant leaves were collected to test the ABA-response gene expression for the comparison with WT. Primers used for all Q–PCR assays are present in CITATION . Q-PCR analysis was performed on a Bio-rad IQ5 Q–PCR machine (Bio-rad, USA). The absolute copy number was determined for each transcript using recombinant RNA calibration curves for each gene generated from full-length cDNA fragments. Protoplasts were incubated in 1 ml of a bathing solution containing 4.5 nM (R, S) 3 H-ABA (Amersham Biosciences; 7.4 kBq and 1.63 TBq mmol −1 ). Transport activity tests were performed by monitoring radioactivity using liquid-scintillation counting (Backman LS 6500). Cells were re-suspended in LB medium to an OD 600 of 0.6, and 1 μM IPTG was added in the medium to induce the DTX50 expression. When OD 600 reached at about 2.0, the bacteria cells were collected and incubated in 3 H-ABA buffer for 0.5h. Then cells were washed five times on ice, and ABA release was tested under 37°C. The radioactivity was monitored by liquid-scintillation counting. For substrate cis- inhibition assays, 2 μM (+)- 3 H-ABA was loaded in the absence (control) or presence of an additional three-fold (6 μM) excess of the competing compounds including unlabeled (+)-ABA, (–)-ABA, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), or GA in the loading buffer. AtDTX50 gene was cloned into the pGEMHE expression vector used for Xenopus oocytes. cRNA was prepared using the mMessage mMachine Transcription Kit (Ambion). Approximately 50 ng of each tested cRNA, in a total volume of 23 nl, was injected into each oocyte cell. After incubation for 2 d, the oocytes were injected with ABA, in detail: 25 nl of 1 mM ABA was injected into each oocyte (to a final concentration of 50 μM ABA, assuming an approximate 500 nl total volume of each oocyte). The oocytes were recovered on ice for 15min, then, for each sample in one pool containing three oocytes, every 10min, the ABA concentration of the buffer was tested using a Phytodetek ABA Immunoassay kit (Agdia, Elkhart, IN). pCambia1302– DTX50pr–DTX50::GFP and pCambia1302–35S– GFP constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts prepared from rosette leaves by the polyethyleneglycol-mediated transformation procedure ( CITATION ), respectively. Protoplast cells were further re-suspended in 1 ml W5 wash solution (containing 154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl 2 , and 5 mM MgCl 2 , 2 mM MES adjusted to pH 5.7 with KOH) and cultured for 18h in the dark at room temperature. Confocal images were captured using Zeiss Live 5 equipment. The fluorescence signals were excited at 488 nm for GFP. GUS staining was performed according to a standard protocol ( CITATION ). The observation of GUS-stained plants was conducted under a Zeiss Stemi SV11, and digital images were captured. For ABA treatment, leaves of 5-week-old AtDTX50pr–GUS transgenic plants were sprayed with 100 μM ABA, and collected for GUS staining after 4h. Details of Arabidopsis whole-rosette gas-exchange measurements are as described previously ( CITATION ). To analyze stomatal responses to different CO 2 concentrations, the leaves of plants were exposed to 400 ppm. CO 2 for stabilization, then the CO 2 concentration was changed to 800 ppm for 30min, followed by 2000 ppm for 30min and then back to 400 ppm CO 2 for 30min. The stomatal conductance of each mutant and WT line was detected using an Ecotek LI 6400. To test the stomatal aperture with responses to ABA, leaves were immersed in stomatal opening buffer (10 mM MES, 5 mM KCl, 50 mM CaCl 2 , pH 6.15) for 3h then ABA was added to a final concentration of 1 μM ABA. Epidermal strips were peeled and pictures were taken under a versatile microscope (Leica DMRE 2). Stomatal apertures were then measured using software of Q-image.
