!~ABS~! • An interaction between plastidial proteins fibrillin 1a and 1b is shown. • fibrillin 1a–fibrillin 1a and fibrillin 1b–fibrillin 1b interactions are also shown. • Interaction takes place via a head-to-tail mechanism. • These interactions may explain the functions of these proteins in the plastids. An interaction between plastidial proteins fibrillin 1a and 1b is shown. fibrillin 1a–fibrillin 1a and fibrillin 1b–fibrillin 1b interactions are also shown. Interaction takes place via a head-to-tail mechanism. These interactions may explain the functions of these proteins in the plastids.
!~RES~! Previous studies from our group have identified the interaction of FBN1b with a protein involved in starch metabolism (unpublished results). In order to continue with this analysis, we searched for other proteins that could interact with FBN1b by screening an Arabidopsis cDNA library using the Y2H system and a fragment of the N-terminal part of FN1b (residues 71–144) as bait. We selected this fragment because it contains a hydrophilic domain (corresponding to Block 1) defined by Laizet et al. CITATION and may therefore be involved in functions distinct from the interaction with the lipids of plastoglobules, such as protein–protein interactions. The cDNA fragment coding for the FBN1b fragment was fused to the DNA binding domain of the yeast GAL4 transcription factor by cloning into the expression vector pGBKT7 and subsequent transformation into the yeast strain Y2HGOLD (CITATION). Expression of this construct was confirmed by immunoblotting yeast crude extracts employing polyclonal antibodies against the GAL4 DNA binding domain (data not shown). The fragment was used to screen a normalized, commercial Arabidopsis cDNA library in the pGADT7-Rec yeast expression vector (Clontech). Although 35 positive clones that grew on selective medium were obtained, 22 of these encoded for proteins with an extra-plastidial localization and were therefore discarded. The remaining proteins found are listed in CITATION . We decided to focus on the study of the positive clones encoding for fragments of FBN1a and FBN1b proteins as these results suggest that FBN1b can interact with another FBN1b polypeptide to form homodimers or with FBN1a to form heterodimers. We decided to confirm the interactions observed with the Y2H system using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) during transient expression of selected proteins in N . benthamiana leaves. Full-length cDNA sequences from At4g04020 (FBN1a) and At4g22240 (FBN1b) were cloned into the binary vector pXCGW (-cCFP) and subjected to Agrobacterium-mediated co-transformation in N. benthamiana together with the FBN1b cDNA cloned into pXNGW (-nYFP). At the same time we determined the localization pattern of over-expressed FBN1b fused to GFP and transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves. CITATION shows that FBN1b over-expressed in N. benthamiana leaves is mainly located in specific regions of the chloroplasts. The same result was obtained when Arabidopsis FBN1a fused to streptavidin and to HIVp24 was over-expressed in transplastomic tobacco chloroplasts CITATION. Over-expression of an FBN1a ortholog of bell pepper in tobacco led to an increased number of plastoglobules organized in clusters CITATION, which could explain the appearance of over-expressed FBN1b (mainly located in plastoglobules) in specific regions of N. benthamiana chloroplasts. Confocal microscopy analysis confirmed that FBN1b interacts with both FBN1b and FBN1a in such chloroplasts (CITATION ), exhibiting a localization pattern that coincides with that shown by the FBN1b-GFP fusion in both cases (CITATION). Both FBN1a and FBN1b are over-expressed in Nicotiana leaves during the BiFC assays, which raise the question whether the observed interaction between both proteins could be an artefact due to their over-expressions together with their localization limited to such small bodies as the plastoglobules. To address this question we tested the possible interaction between FBN1b and another plastoglobule-associated protein under our BiFC assay conditions. We selected the tocopherol cyclase enzyme (VTE1), encoded by the At4g32770 gene, which is associated to plastoglobules CITATION. cDNA coding sequence for VTE1 was cloned into the binary vector pXNGW (-nYFP) and co-transformed in N. benthamiana leaves together with FBN1b cloned into pXCGW (-cCFP). CITATION shows that there is not interaction between VTE1 and FBN1b proteins (CITATION, Panels A and D), whereas fluorescence was detected when, in the same experiment, Nicotiana leaves were co-transformed with FBN1a and FBN1b proteins or VTE1 fused to GFP (CITATION, Panels G and J respectively). These results indicate that the interaction between FBN1a and FBN1b proteins observed using the BiFC technique is not a mere consequence of the over-expression of two proteins whose localization is restricted to a small area, such as plastoglobules surface, and support the idea that FBN1a and FBN1b interact in vivo in the plant. The different FBN1a and FBN1b clones obtained in the Y2H screening were used to identify the domains involved in the interactions between these proteins. The lengths of the clones obtained are illustrated in CITATION . According to this alignment, the FBN1b region extending from amino acid 220 to the C-terminal end at position 322 is sufficient to interact with the fragment used as bait. To confirm this we used a BiFC assay in N . benthamiana leaves. The FBN1b fragment used as bait in the Y2H screening was fused to the chloroplast transit peptide of FBN1b and cloned into the binary vector pXNGW (-nYFP). The C-terminal part of FBN1b (residues 220–322) was also fused to the FBN1b CTP and cloned into pXCGW (-cCFP). Both constructs were agro-infiltrated in N. benthamiana leaves and fluorescence monitored by confocal microscopy. CITATION shows that the N- and C-terminal fragments of FBN1b used in the assay interact in vivo. In the case of FBN1a clones, the minimum fragment that interacts with the FBN1b bait extends from amino acid 125 to the C-terminal end of the protein (CITATION). The minimum domain delimited for FBN1b (residue 220 to the stop codon) differs from the equivalent region of FBN1a by five non-conserved amino acid changes, thus suggesting that the FBN1a domain involved in the interaction with the bait might also be delimited to the region expanding from amino acid 220 to the C-terminal end of the polypeptide. These regions contain one of the hydrophobic domains (H3) described for FBN7 (see CITATION), which could be involved in anchoring fibrillins to plastoglobules CITATION. Once this domain, which would not be involved in protein–protein interactions, has been eliminated, the region responsible for the interaction between FBN1a and FBN1b might be delimited to the fragment expanding from amino acid 220–275 (CITATION). These results indicate that FBN1a and FBN1b can interact through a head-to-tail mechanism. Moreover, experimental evidence suggests that fibrillins of Group 1 (which includes FBN1a and FBN1b) are involved in plastoglobule formation CITATION and thylakoid maintenance CITATION, and it has been suggested that these proteins, being an interface between the aqueous phase and lipids as well as mediating cross-linking by an unknown mechanism, may prevent plastoglobule coalescence and favor their clustering by mediating interactions between plastoglobules. Our results provide a mechanism for these FBNs to carry out their function. Thus, the head-to-tail interaction would allow the formation of a network that could contribute to maintaining the plastoglobule structure and their association to form clusters. Our results also indicate that, in addition to the FBN1a–FBN1a and FBN1b–FBN1b interaction, FBN1a can interact with FBN1b in N. benthamiana chloroplasts, thereby raising the possibility of heterodimer or heteropolymer formation in vivo. The high homology between FBN1a and -1b sequences and their exon/intron organization (both genes have two introns at the same position) suggest that they were originated by recent gene duplication. However, expression of these genes does not respond to the same external stimuli; FBN1a expression is induced in cold-stressed Arabidopsis plants, whereas FBN1b expression remains unaffected CITATION. Thus, the formation of dimers or polymers containing both polypeptides could vary depending on the levels of gene expression in response to environmental conditions. The region of FBN1a and -1b that interacts with the bait used in the Y2H screening is not well conserved among the remaining fibrillins (CITATION), thus suggesting that other FBNs do not interact with FBN1a or FBN1b. It will therefore be interesting to determine whether other FBNs display a similar protein–protein interaction mechanism and the effect of these possible interactions on their respective functions.
!~MM~! Full-length ORFs from FBN1a and FBN1b were cloned (without the stop codon) into the pDONR221 entry vector (Invitrogen) by a BP reaction (Invitrogen). After sequence verification, the inserts were transferred into the binary vectors pXNGW (-nYFP) and pXCGW (-cCFP) CITATION, respectively, for the BiFC assay using LR Clonase II (Invitrogen). This resulted in translational fusions between the ORFs and the YFP/CFP moieties driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. For Y2H screening, a cDNA fragment coding for amino acids 71–144 of FBN1b was amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA using the primers FBN1B_Y2H_F and FBN1b_Y2H_R (see list of primers in CITATION). These primers introduced NdeI and EcoRI restriction sites at the 5′- and 3′-ends of the fragment, respectively. The fragment amplified was cloned into the yeast vector pGBKT7 (Clontech) by restriction with NdeI and EcoRI and subsequent ligation. For the BiFC assays of the N- and C-terminal part of FBN1b, the cDNA fragment coding for the FBN1b chloroplast transit peptide (CTP) was fused to the fragment coding for amino acids 71–144 by two sequential steps of PCR amplifications using cDNA as probe and primers FBN1b_CTP-bait_F and FBN1b_CTP-bait_R in the first step, and the products of the first PCR amplification and primers FBN1b_F and FBN1b_CTP-bait_GW_R in the second step (see primers list in CITATION). The C-terminal part of FBN1b (amino acid residues 220 to the end) was fused to the CTP region using the same strategy with the primers FBN1b_CTP-Ct_F and FBN1b_CTP-Ct_R in the first PCR amplification and FBN1b_F and FBN1b_R in the second step. Once the N- and the C-terminal regions of FBN1b had been fused to the CTP, both constructs were cloned into the binary vectors pXNGW (-nYFP) and pXCGW (-cCFP), respectively, using LR Clonase II (Invitrogen). The full-length ORF of VTE1 (At4g32770) gene was amplified from leaves mRNA by RT-PCR using the primers described in CITATION, and cloned into the pDONR221 entry vector (Invitrogen) by a BP reaction (Invitrogen). After sequence verification, the insert was transferred into the binary vectors pXNGW (-nYFP) and pEarlyGate103 CITATION, for BiFC assays and fusion to GFP marker respectively. The corresponding vectors were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 CITATION. The saturated overnight bacterial cultures carrying the GFP or the YFP/CFP construct moieties were each adjusted to a final O.D600nm of 0.2 and then co-infiltrated with equal amounts of an Agrobacterium suspension carrying a p19 suppressor of post-transcriptional gene silencing, following the method of Silhavy et al. CITATION. The Agrobacterium suspensions were then infiltrated into the leaves of three- to four-week-old N. benthamiana plants as described previously CITATION. The infiltrated plants were kept in a controlled growth chamber under the above conditions for two days until analysis by confocal microscopy. Screening of a commercial, normalized, Arabidopsis cDNA library in the yeast expression vector pGADT7-RecAB (Clontech) was performed using the Matchmaker Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid system (Clontech), following the manufacturer’s instructions. The bait used in the screening was a fragment corresponding to the N-terminal part of FBN1b (amino acid residues 71–144). The cDNA encoding for the bait was cloned into the yeast cloning vector pGBKT7 as described above. A DM6000 confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a 63× water-immersion objective was used to examine protein–protein interactions in BiFC assays involving N. benthamiana mesophyll cells. YFP/CFP expression and chlorophyll autofluorescence imaging was performed by excitation with a 488nm argon laser; fluorescence was detected at 500–525 and 630–690nm, respectively.
