!~ABS~! Mitochondria are defining components of most eukaryotes. However, higher plant mitochondria differ biochemically, morphologically, and dynamically from those in other eukaryotes. FRIENDLY, a member of the CLUSTERED MITOCHONDRIA superfamily, is conserved among eukaryotes and is required for correct distribution of mitochondria within the cell. We sought to understand how disruption of FRIENDLY function in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leads to mitochondrial clustering and the effects of this aberrant chondriome on cell and whole-plant physiology. We present evidence for a role of FRIENDLY in mediating intermitochondrial association, which is a necessary prelude to mitochondrial fusion. We demonstrate that disruption of mitochondrial association, motility, and chondriome structure in friendly affects mitochondrial quality control and leads to mitochondrial stress, cell death, and strong growth phenotypes.
!~RES~! The friendly mutant was originally identified (CITATION) due to the clustered mitochondrial phenotype; however, no analysis was made regarding the size distribution of clusters relative to the wild type. Here, mitochondria in wild-type plants were found to be distributed evenly throughout the cytoplasm in both leaves and roots, while in friendly, many mitochondria were arranged in large clusters of tens of organelles in addition to singletons that had a distribution resembling the wild type (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Movie S1). In order to quantify cluster number and size, clusters were defined as discrete associations in an area of at least 2.5 µm2 (see “Materials and Methods”), a phenotype that was not observed in healthy wild-type plants. While no clusters were observed in the wild type, some mitochondria were observed to be in loose groups with an average area of 0.41 µm2 in leaf epidermal pavement cells and 0.79 µm2 in root epidermal cells (Fig. 1B). The average mitochondrial cluster size in friendly leaf epidermal pavement cells was 9.7 µm2, while significantly larger clusters covering an average of 16.09 µm2 were observed in roots (Fig. 1C). There was no significant difference in the number of clusters in leaves or roots in friendly (Fig. 1C). The majority of groups in the wild type covered an area less than 0.5 µm2 in both leaves and roots, while the larger size classes were more frequently observed in root cells, reflecting the greater mean group size in this cell type (Fig. 1, compare D and E). In friendly, the majority of clusters fell within the 2.5- to 10-µm2 range, while, as in the wild type, clusters covering larger areas were more frequently present in roots than in leaves (Fig. 1E). A similar phenotype was observed in the friendly-3 transfer DNA (T-DNA) mutant (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] Mitochondrial clusters in leaves prepared for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) by chemical fixation showed no obvious outer membrane connectivity (CITATION). However, given the importance of any intermitochondrial connection in the mutant to the role of FRIENDLY, we decided to investigate this further by two complementary methods. In order to determine whether or not mitochondria in clusters in friendly were connected to each other by a contiguous outer membrane, leaf material prepared by high-pressure freezing was viewed by TEM. Membranous structures were well preserved within the cytoplasm of both wild-type and mutant leaves (Fig. 2A), allowing clear identification of fine membranous organelles such as the Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and thylakoids within chloroplasts. No organelles other than mitochondria appeared to be affected, morphologically, by the friendly mutation. Over 40 ultrathin sections were observed from at least three plants, and there was no evidence of continuity of the outer membrane between mitochondria in a cluster. However, electron-dense regions were observed between individual mitochondria within a cluster (Fig. 2, A and B, arrows). [[FIGURE]] An independent approach was used to investigate the connectivity of the mitochondrial matrices of adjacent mitochondria in a cluster using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) of the mitochondrial-targeted (mito)-GFP fluorescence. A strip through a cluster was photobleached using the 488-nm laser, and no recovery was observed up to 300 s after bleaching (Fig. 2C; Supplemental Movie S2). Due to the physically dispersed nature of the wild-type Arabidopsis chondriome, a meaningful photobleaching control could not be performed on the wild type. Instead, in order to observe how quickly GFP could diffuse within a mitochondrion (as a proxy for contiguous matrices within a cluster), we performed FRAP on mitochondrial tubules of the network mutant first identified by CITATION. mito-GFP was able to diffuse into bleached areas of the matrix within 1.5 s (Fig. 2D; Supplemental Movie S2). We next focused on the dynamism of clusters in friendly and their interaction with the cytoskeleton. Single mitochondria in friendly move on actin filaments as in the wild type (Supplemental Movie S3). Similarly, small clusters of mitochondria in friendly are also able to move on actin filaments (Fig. 3A; Supplemental Movie S3), and depolymerization of F-actin with latrunculin B arrests this movement (Supplemental Movie S3). Larger clusters assemble due to the aggregation of smaller clusters that are brought together through movement on actin, and these large clusters are less able to move through the cytosol intact and are disrupted by the forces of cytoplasmic streaming, such as restructuring of the actin cytoskeleton and physical bottlenecks in the cytoplasm (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Movies S4 and S5). Clusters of mitochondria in friendly, therefore, are highly dynamic transient structures composed of discrete organelles that are able to interact with the actin cytoskeleton in a wild-type manner. Furthermore, while we had previously hypothesized that clusters in friendly may be tethered to microtubules, we found no evidence of any association with either microtubules themselves (Supplemental Movie S6; CITATION) or more specifically the plus-ends of microtubules (Supplemental Movie S6), and partial depolymerization of microtubules did not affect the movement of clusters (Supplemental Movie S6). In contrast, depolymerization of the actin cytoskeleton in the wild type using latrunculin B was able to phenocopy the friendly phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S2A). This apparent stickiness of mitochondria in the absence of their actin scaffold is not observed with other organelles that move on actin. For example, while peroxisomes and Golgi bodies move on actin and latrunculin B arrests this movement, neither organelle forms large clusters in response to actin depolymerization (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, the clustering of mitochondria in friendly is not due to a general cytoskeletal or motor defect, since the distribution and movement of peroxisomes are not affected in the mutant (Supplemental Fig. S2B), and no altered distribution of other organelles was observed in TEM images (Fig. 2, A and B). [[FIGURE]] These observations support the hypothesis that mitochondria are attracted to one another and that movement on actin filaments counters this attraction by providing the scaffold and driving force to keep mitochondria separate except during their regulated association and transient fusion. A C-terminal translational fusion of GFP to the full-length FRIENDLY complementary DNA (cDNA) coding sequence was generated to visualize the FRIENDLY location. Expression of FRIENDLY-GFP in wild-type Arabidopsis showed a cytosolic location, often with a punctate distribution (Fig. 4, A and B). Similar localization patterns were observed using transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum; Fig. 4, C–E). To demonstrate that this expression pattern was unlikely to be due to overexpression, we performed transient expression in friendly seedlings: both C- and N-terminal fusions to monomeric Red Fluorescent Protein1 (mRFP1) showed a punctate distribution in close association with mitochondria (Supplemental Fig. S3). Cotransformation of tobacco with FRIENDLY-GFP and mito-mCherry demonstrated that the FRIENDLY-GFP puncta were frequently associated with mitochondria (Fig. 4C). That this was a dynamic association is evident from the time-lapse movie (Supplemental Movie S7). As with stable transformation in Arabidopsis, a punctate pattern was not always observed; instead, a more diffuse cytoplasmic distribution was apparent (Fig. 4D). In the cortical cytoplasm, this appeared as a reticulum, as the fusion protein was excluded from areas occupied by other organelles (Fig. 4E). In order to exclude the possibility that FRIENDLY-GFP was localized to organelles exhibiting a similar punctate pattern, coexpression in tobacco was performed with fluorescent markers of peroxisomes (mCherry-peroxisome targeting signal1 [PTS1]; Fig. 4F) and the Golgi (siayl transferase [ST]-mRFP1; Fig. 4G): no colocalization was apparent. Similarly, the cortical reticular pattern of FRIENDLY-GFP was distinct from that of the ER visualized by coexpression of the ER marker er-RB (Fig. 4H). Our data demonstrating a cytosolic localization is in agreement with a recent cytosol proteomic study (CITATION). The yeast FRIENDLY ortholog, CLU1, also has been localized by proteomics to the cytosol (CITATION), and the Drosophila melanogaster ortholog, Clu, has been shown to be a cytosolic protein that associates peripherally with mitochondria in D. melanogaster follicle nurse cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Our observations of the movement of mitochondrial clusters on actin, the role of actin in bringing mitochondria together in the formation of clusters, and the dynamism of clusters led us to consider how clusters form. Mitochondria in wild-type Arabidopsis that meet one another through the movement on actin often display a short period of association (Fig. 5A) during which time fusion and subsequent fission can occur, a phenomenon also seen in some mammalian cells and termed “kiss and run” (CITATION). Figure 5A displays individual frames from Supplemental Movie S8 that show two association/disassociation events in the wild type: the images reference one of these associations that occurs within 20 s (at 19 s in the movie) and the subsequent disassociation that occurs within a further 10 s (at 28 s in the movie). In contrast, the images in Figure 5B reference an association/disassociation event between an initially discrete single mitochondrion and another mitochondrion at the exterior of a cluster in friendly (Supplemental Movie S8): the single mitochondrion associates with the cluster within 20 s (at 18 s in the movie) and disassociates 62 s later. By analyzing 45 movies each of the wild type and friendly, we were able to quantify the average length of intermitochondrial association: in the wild type, the average is 15 ± 0.7 s (Fig. 5C); however, in the friendly mutant, the average time of association is significantly greater at 61.5 ± 1.4 s (Fig. 5C). This extended association time between mitochondria in friendly is sufficient to lead to the buildup of a cluster as more mitochondria become temporarily associated before eventually being able to leave the cluster if sufficiently close to a filament of actin (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Movie S3). [[FIGURE]] To demonstrate that longer association times lead to more mitochondrial clustering, we constructed and simulated a simple stochastic model of mitochondrial dynamics (see “Materials and Methods”). In this model, mitochondria, represented as individual agents, undergo random motion on a three-dimensional lattice, with the rate of mitochondrial motion depending on whether a mitochondrion is clustered (adjacent to other mitochondria) or free. As mean association time increases, the proportion of mitochondria existing in clusters in the steady state increases in concert (Fig. 5D; Supplemental Movie S8). This provides independent theoretical evidence that alteration of mitochondrial association alone could be responsible for the clustering of mitochondria in friendly. In Supplemental Document S1, we also provide a simple analytic argument that qualitatively recapitulates this behavior. It was suggested recently that mitochondrial fusion involves the formation of a pore in the inner mitochondrial membrane, thereby causing transient changes in the membrane potential of the fusion partners (CITATION). We decided, therefore, to investigate membrane potential dynamics in friendly. Transient changes in membrane potential, which we term pulses (CITATION), are rare events in the wild type; thus, it was immediately evident from confocal scanning laser microscopy (CSLM) imaging that the number of mitochondria exhibiting pulses and the frequency of pulses were greater in friendly than in the wild type (Fig. 6A). Mitochondria undergoing a pulse in the reference images of hypocotyl cells expressing mito-GFP (Fig. 6A; Supplemental Movie S9) are identified by their green color, due to mito-GFP fluorescence in the absence of the matrix-localized red tetramethylrhodamine, methyl ester (TMRM), while mitochondria with a greater membrane potential are yellow-orange, due to the colocalization of TMRM and mito-GFP in their matrices. In friendly, the extent of pulsing was highly variable between cells and there was considerable heterogeneity of membrane potential within the chondriome, although in general mitochondria in clusters showed the same baseline membrane potential as those not in clusters (Fig. 6A). Quantification of the number of pulses showed that the average frequency of pulses was 0.12 per 100 mitochondria per minute in the wild type, while in friendly it was increased to 11.14 per 100 mitochondria per minute, an increase of approximately 100× (Fig. 6B). There was no significant difference in the frequency of pulses for mitochondria in a cluster (mean = 9.82, 95% confidence interval [4.08, 18.03]) compared with those not in clusters (mean = 12.29, 95% confidence interval [5.65, 21.48]). Our interpretation of these results is that fusion initiation events, via the formation of a fusion pore, occur with higher frequency in friendly relative to the wild type. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the increased rate of pulsing correlated with an increase in the extent of matrix mixing, and therefore intermitochondrial fusion, we devised a quantitative in vivo fusion assay using the mitochondria-targeted photoconvertible protein mito-monomeric (m)Eos (CITATION). Matrix-localized mEos was photoconverted within highly motile mitochondria in a region of leaf epidermis (Fig. 6C; Supplemental Movie S10). The percentage reduction in numbers of green mitochondria, as a result of the exchange of matrix contents during repeated transient fusion events with mitochondria containing photoconverted mEos, was significantly greater at the end of the assay time period in friendly (30.4%) relative to that in the wild type (14.2%; Fig. 6D). The fact that an exchange of matrix contents was not seen in the FRAP experiments can likely be accounted for simply because we analyzed, by necessity, a single relatively immobile cluster by photobleaching and, therefore, interaction with other mitochondria outside of the cluster could not occur. Similarly, the fusion assay, by necessity, required mitochondria to be motile, since there would be no fusion between dispersed mitochondria unless they were able to meet. In addition, observation of hundreds of individual association events between a single red mitochondrion and a single green mitochondrion failed to demonstrate extensive mixing of the two mEos species, suggesting that there is limited matrix exchange per fusion event, as reported for mammalian cells (CITATION; CITATION). The result of this fusion assay demonstrates that the increased association time is not simply due to mitochondria trying but failing to fuse with one another but that it increases the chance that transient fusion events can occur, facilitating the exchange of matrix content. While friendly was identified solely on the basis of its mitochondrial phenotype, there is a series of whole-plant defective phenotypes as a consequence. Plants of the same age are smaller and have shorter, more rounded leaves (Fig. 7A). Biomass is reduced in friendly, significantly so at 7 to 21 d old (Fig. 7B); however, the most obvious phenotypic difference between the mutant and the wild type is the length of the primary root (Fig. 7, C and D). Primary root length is significantly shorter in friendly seedlings at 7, 14, 21, and 28 d (Fig. 7D), such that by 28 d the root of the mutant is almost half the length of the wild type (4.72 ± 0.16 versus 9 ± 0.11 cm). Similarly, when seedlings are grown in darkness, the hypocotyl length is significantly shorter in friendly than in the wild type (Fig. 7, F and G). The reduction in total root length (Fig. 7, C and D) is reflected in a significant reduction in the length of the cap/meristematic region (in friendly, this zone is 69% the length of the zone in the wild type; Fig 7E) and a slightly greater reduction in the elongation zone (in friendly, this zone is 67% of the length of the zone in the wild type; Fig. 7E). Root width was also reduced significantly in friendly compared with its wild type (Fig. 7E). Similar whole-plant phenotypes were apparent in the friendly-3 T-DNA mutant (Supplemental Fig. S4). [[FIGURE]] Propidium iodide (PI) staining of roots was performed to visualize root cell architecture in order to determine whether it was a reduction in cell number and/or cell size that was responsible for the reduction in root length. As can be seen from the data in Figure 7H, the roots of friendly are composed of smaller cells; therefore, there are a greater number of cells in a defined length of root tissue. However, PI staining also revealed that roots of friendly contained many dead cells, which are permeable to PI, while few dead cells were observed in wild-type roots (Fig. 8A). For independent confirmation using a more specific and robust probe, SYTOX Orange was used as a probe that readily and selectively enters cells with a damaged plasma membrane and stains DNA. A greater number of dead cells were observed in friendly than in the wild type in all developmental zones (e.g. elongation zone; Fig. 8B), with significant increases measured in the elongation and differentiation zones (Fig. 8C). [[FIGURE]] The significant increase in root cell death led us to investigate a potential breakdown in the mitochondrial quality control process in friendly. LysoTracker has been used to assess autophagy in plants, and while not specific for autophagosomes, it does label acid vacuoles required for the process (CITATION). We stained 6-d-old wild-type and friendly seedlings using 1 µm LysoTracker Red DND-99 for 5 min followed by capture of z-stacks by CSLM of the root elongation zone. We observed increases in both the size and number of LysoTracker-stained compartments in friendly compared with the wild type (Fig. 8D). Quantification of LysoTracker-stained compartments demonstrated that there were significant increases in the number (54 ± 8.6 in friendly compared with 19 ± 3.6 in the wild type) and area (9.2 ± 1.2 µm2 in friendly compared with 3.7 ± 0.8 µm2 in the wild type) of LysoTracker-stained compartments in roots of friendly compared with the wild type (Fig. 8E). The increased size and number of acid compartments in friendly are consistent with a role for FRIENDLY in the maintenance of cell health. To discover what other processes and functions are altered in friendly that may contribute to the loss of cell health and the whole-plant phenotypes, we decided to analyze the friendly transcriptome. To understand the molecular implications and overall impact of the friendly mutation and of compromised fusion control on whole-cell homeostasis, we performed a set of microarray-based transcriptome studies on whole seedlings. Although, in general, only small fold changes of abundance in friendly relative to the wild type were observed, these changes were determined to be significant using Cybr-T (CITATION) for 4,121 nonredundant transcripts (Supplemental Table S1). The significantly regulated transcripts were allocated to functional groups using MapMan (CITATION), resulting in the identification of 54 significantly regulated functional groups of genes (Table I). The functional groups included Protein Synthesis and Protein Degradation, consistent with the observed induction of autophagy. Together with Photosynthesis and Photosynthetic Light Reactions, which were also significantly regulated, this functional group set was identified previously by meta-analysis of multiple transcriptomic data sets (CITATION) as being a general indicator for mitochondrial dysfunction. In addition to these classes, we also observed regulation of Abiotic Stress, Redox, and Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle (Table I) that can be clearly linked to mitochondrial dysfunction. Interestingly, significant regulation was also determined for Transcription, including by the NAC (for NO APICAL MERISTEM/ARABIDOPSIS TRANSCRIPTION ACTIVATION FACTOR/CUP- SHAPED COTYLEDON) domain superfamily of transcription factors, members of which have been implicated in mitochondrial retrograde signaling (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Mean log2 fold ratios of transcripts were analyzed by functional class scoring for each experiment using MapMan software and applying the Hochberg correction. Numbers of transcript elements within each bin are indicated along with the P value. To determine the impact of the friendly mutation on mitochondrial respiration, and specifically on the alternative pathway, we measured oxygen uptake by whole seedlings in the aqueous phase using a Clark-type oxygen electrode. There was no significant difference in average oxygen uptake between the wild type (25.5 ± 3 μmol oxygen h−1 μg−1 chlorophyll) and friendly (29.9 ± 2.8 μmol oxygen h−1 μg−1 chlorophyll) under noninhibited baseline conditions (Fig. 9A). However, in the presence of 0.5 mm KCN, an inhibitor of the cytochrome pathway, average oxygen uptake by wild-type seedlings was reduced to 12.5 ± 3.4 μmol oxygen h−1 μg−1 chlorophyll (Fig. 9A), a percentage inhibition of 51.2% ± 10.8% (Fig. 9B), while average oxygen uptake by friendly seedlings was only reduced to 25.3 ± 4.3 μmol oxygen h−1 μg−1 chlorophyll (Fig. 9A), which was not a statistically significant change relative to uptake in the absence of KCN and equated to an inhibition of only 16% ± 8.5% (Fig. 9B). This suggested that much of the oxygen uptake of friendly seedlings was due to the alternative pathway. To test this, we next measured the effect of 0.1 mm propylgallate, an inhibitor of the alternative oxidase, on the KCN-insensitive oxygen uptake. Propylgallate in combination with KCN reduced oxygen uptake by wild-type and friendly seedlings to approximately the same rate (3.4 ± 1.4 and 4 ± 1 μmol oxygen h−1 μg−1 chlorophyll, respectively; P = 0.498), equating to a combined inhibition of KCN and propylgallate of baseline uninhibited oxygen uptake of approximately 87%, confirming that alternative oxidase induction is responsible for the KCN-insensitive oxygen consumption in friendly (Fig. 9B). [[FIGURE]] To test the result from the transcriptome analysis suggesting photosynthetic defects in friendly, we next investigated PSI and PSII activities. There was no difference in steady-state PSII redox state between the wild type and friendly, as estimated by the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter 1 − qL (fraction of open PSII centers [see “Materials and Methods”]; Fig. 9C). This observation was true both at the growth irradiance of 100 µmol photons m−2 s−1 and when the leaf being sampled was exposed to an actinic light of 910 µmol photons m−2 s−1 (Fig. 9C). Similarly, there was no difference in the capacity for nonphotochemical dissipation of excess light (nonphotochemical quenching) between the friendly mutant and the wild type (Fig. 9D). PSI activity measured as the change in A820 was used to probe possible effects of the friendly mutation on PSI function and its supply of electrons. The wild-type plants exhibited a greater level of PSI activity (Table II) and an increased ΔA820/A820 value. PSI was also more slowly reduced in friendly: this measure of how rapidly PSI is rereduced following the removal of far-red illumination indicates that PSI is receiving a diminished supply of electrons from plastocyanin and the photosynthetic electron transport chain. To probe whether the number of electrons available to PSI from the electron transport chain was diminished in friendly, we used the areas under the curve of the single- and multiple-turnover flashes. The results confirm the PSI rereduction observations, with friendly having a lower number of electrons available from sources outside of the linear electron transport chain (Table II). Values shown are means ± se (n = 10 independent biological replicates). For experimental details, see “Materials and Methods.” A Lys-acetylated peptide of the FRIENDLY protein containing the two acetylation sites, Lys-1022 and Lys-1029, was identified in the analysis performed by CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S5). To validate the biological meaning of both sites and rule out artifacts, we studied the effect of Lys acetylation of Lys-1022 and Lys-1029 on the function of FRIENDLY by site-directed mutagenesis. The respective Lys residues were mutated to either Arg (to abolish Lys acetylation) or Gln (to mimic Lys acetylation), and the mutagenized cDNA coding sequences as well as the wild-type coding sequences were used to stably transform either friendly or its wild type followed by an analysis of mitochondrial clustering relative to overexpression or complementation (Fig. 10). The fact that the mitochondrial phenotype of wild-type plants is altered by overexpression of FRIENDLY suggests that FRIENDLY function is dependent on its expression level (Fig. 10B). Both K1022R and K1029R mutants were able to complement friendly to levels (44% and 38% for K1022R and K1029R, respectively) similar to the expression of the wild-type coding sequence (46%; Fig. 10). In contrast, mutation of either Lys to Gln decreased complementation (29% and 6% for K1022Q and K1029Q, respectively) relative to the Lys-to-Arg mutants (Fig. 10A) or the wild-type coding sequence (Fig. 10B). The reverse results were obtained when wild-type plants were transformed with the site-directed mutants, indicating that only the Lys-to-Gln mutations can counter the clustered phenotype caused by overexpression in wild-type plants or transformation of the wild type with either Lys-to-Arg mutants (Fig. 10A) or the wild-type construct (Fig. 10B). The low level of complementation by the Lys-to-Gln mutants and the relative lack of effect of transformation with either of the Lys-to-Gln mutants in the wild type support the hypothesis that FRIENDLY activity can be regulated by Lys acetylation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments using Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were conducted using the Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype. Except when used for transformation, Arabidopsis seeds were first germinated on agar under aseptic conditions as follows. Seeds were surface sterilized by washing in 80% (v/v) ethanol for 5 min with continual inversion, and this wash was replaced with 30% (v/v) household bleach before three rinses in sterile type III water. Seeds were spread on plates and stratified as described by CITATION before moving to a growth chamber at 23°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod using cool-white light at 100 μmol m−2 s−1. For transformation, Arabidopsis seeds were stratified before direct sowing on a 1:1 compost (Sunshine LG3; www.sungro.com):vermiculite mixture. Plants to be crossed were first grown on agar as above before transplanting after 2 weeks to the compost:vermiculite mixture. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) seeds were also sown directly on this compost:vermiculite mixture and transferred to a growth chamber at 23°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod using cool-white light at 150 μmol m−2 s−1. friendly was identified in a microscope-based screen of a mito-GFP line mutated with ethyl methanesulfonate (CITATION; CITATION). The mutant allele was identified by map-based cloning and DNA sequencing as At3g52140 bearing a single G-to-A mutation in the first intron-exon boundary (CITATION). The friendly mutant was backcrossed to its wild type (mito-GFP), and the homozygous recessive mutant was reidentified five times to clean up the genetic background (CITATION). T-DNA Express (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) was used to identify the T-DNA insertion line SALK_046271 bearing an insertion in the 18th intron of the FRIENDLY gene (At3g52140), and seed was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org/). Homozygous mutant plants (named friendly-3) were identified using the gene-specific LP (5′-ATACCTGCAGCAGTTTGCAAC-3′) and RP (5′-CTAGCGCCAACAGCTCTACTG-3′) primers together with the left border T-DNA primer (LBb1), 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′. Homozygous friendly-3 mutants were crossed with lines expressing mito-GFP or mito-mEosFP (using the same targeting signal as mito-GFP but fused to mEOS; CITATION). Crossing was performed as described by CITATION. Total RNA was extracted from 14-d-old Arabidopsis Col-0 seedlings using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). RNA was reverse transcribed using Thermoscript reverse transcriptase according to the manufacturer’s instructions (LifeTechnologies). FRIENDLY was amplified from cDNA using Phusion DNA polymerase (New England Biolabs) and the following primers: forward, 5′-ATGGCTGGGAAGTCGAACAAATCGAAGGCCAAG-3′, and reverse 5′-TTATTTTTTGGCTTTTTGCTTCTTCTTATCCAAAG-3′. A PCR product of the expected size was amplified, gel purified, and cloned using the Zero Blunt Topo PCR Cloning Kit (Life Technologies). Putative positive clones were cultured overnight before plasmid extraction and restriction digest analysis using HindIII. DNA sequencing followed to identify an error-free clone, named pCR-FRIENDLY, which was 100% identical to the coding sequence of gene model At3g52140.1 in the database of The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?id=37255&type=locus). pCR-FRIENDLY was used as the template for recloning with Gateway attB primers. The PCR product was gel purified, recombined into pDONRzeocin (Life Technologies) to give pDONRz-FRIENDLY, and transformed into Escherichia coli. Positive clones were identified as above and subjected to DNA sequencing to confirm error-free amplification. pDONRz-FRIENDLY was recombined with the Gateway destination binary vectors pMDC83, pDCLmrfp1-X, and pDCLX-mrfp1 (modified versions of pMDC43 and pMDC83, respectively [CITATION]; http://botserv1.uzh.ch/home/grossnik/curtisvector/index_2.html), to generate a C-terminal translational fusion to modified (m)GFP6 and N- and C-terminal fusions to mRFP1, and with pMDC32 for FRIENDLY overexpression and complementation experiments. Positive clones were identified and verified as described above. Site-directed mutagenesis of FRIENDLY (in pDONRz-FRIENDLY) to convert Lys-1022 or Lys-1029 to Gln or Arg was performed using the GeneTailor Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Life Technologies) following the manufacturer’s instructions and using the oligonucleotide primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. The mutated cDNAs were cloned using Gateway technology (Life Technologies) into pMDC32, which was used to stably transform friendly and its wild type (mito-GFP line 43C5, expressing a translational fusion of 93 N-terminal amino acids of the β-ATPase subunit of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia to mGFP5; CITATION) as described below. Live imaging (except FRAP, pulsing analysis, and the in vivo fusion assay) used one of two microscope systems. System 1 consisted of an Olympus BX61 with a 100× U-PLAN S-APO oil-immersion objective (numerical aperture [NA] = 1.4), Semrock Brightline cubes for GFP (excitation, 473/31 nm; dichroic, 495 nm; emission, 520/35 nm) and mRFP/mCherry (excitation, 543/22 nm; dichroic, 563 nm; emission, 593/40 nm) and X-Cite exacte illumination. Images were captured with a QImaging Rolera-MGi Plus EMCCD camera attached to a computer work station running Metamorph. System 2 consisted of a Zeiss META 510 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, MicroImaging) driven by a personal computer running LSM510/ConfoCor2 software, version 3.2. The microscope was equipped with 25× and 63× water-immersion objectives (NA = 1.2). GFP was excited with the 488-nm argon laser (HFT 405/488/543 dichroic), and emission was collected between 505 and 530 nm. PI-stained tissue was excited using the 488-nm argon laser (HFT 405/488/543 dichroic), and emission was collected between 610 and 660 nm. LysoTracker-stained tissue was excited using the 543-nm helium-neon laser (HFT 405/488/543 dichroic), and emission was collected between 585 and 650 nm. SYTOX Orange-stained tissue was excited with the 514-nm laser (488/514 dichroic), and emission was collected between 560 and 615 nm. IMARIS 7.4.2 software (Bitplane) was used for image analysis and three-dimensional reconstructions. Images were deconvolved using AutoQuant X2 (MediaCybernetics) as appropriate. Binary vectors were used to transform electrocompetent Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101), and positive clones were identified by restriction digestion as above following a modified plasmid extraction protocol. Wild-type (Col-0), mito-GFP (CITATION), or friendly ethyl methanesulfonate mutant (which is in the mito-GFP background; CITATION) plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformed plants were selected on appropriate antibiotics and then screened by fluorescence microscopy, if appropriate, using microscopy system 1. Fluorescent protein fusion constructs were transformed into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves using agroinfiltration with a variety of A. tumefaciens cell densities and the method described by CITATION. Microscopy using system 1 was performed 3 to 4 d after infiltration. Peroxisomes were visualized using the construct pRCS2/mCherry-PTS1 (a kind gift from Dr. Robert Mullen, University of Guelph), ER using er-RB (an mCherry-HDEL construct; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock no. CD3-960; CITATION), and Golgi using ST-mRFP1 (CITATION). Seedlings of friendly were transformed essentially as described by CITATION, except that 0.01% (v/v) Silwet L-77 was used instead of Tween 20. Microscopy of transformed seedlings was performed using a Nikon A1 confocal laser-scanning microscope equipped with a 40× water-immersion objective (NA = 0.9) and using 488- and 561-nm excitation for GFP and mRFP1, respectively. Sections of the true leaves of 14-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were high-pressure frozen at the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council Oxford Brookes High Pressure Freezing Facility using a Baltec HPF010 apparatus and freeze substituted in the presence of 2% (w/v) osmium using an AFS apparatus (Leica) as described by CITATION. After freeze substitution, sections were embedded, sectioned, and observed by TEM according to CITATION. Epidermal cells of 7-d-old friendly plants and their wild type were imaged using microscopy system 1. Images were obtained from 40 randomly chosen independent seedlings of each line. Mitochondrial clusters or groups were quantified using the Analyze Particles command in Fiji (ImageJ) software (CITATION). Clusters of mitochondria in friendly were minimally defined as discrete particles consisting of mitochondria covering an area of at least 2.5 µm2. Groups of wild-type mitochondrial were defined as discrete particles covering an area of at least 0.2 µm2. For FRAP, we used a Zeiss LSM 410 inverted confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, MicroImaging) equipped with 25× and 63× water-immersion objectives (NA = 1.2) and driven by a personal computer running LSM410/Zeiss LSM software. GFP was excited with the 488-nm argon laser (HFT 488/594 dichroic), and emission was collected between 505 and 530 nm. Leaf epidermal pavement cells of 7-d-old seedlings were used. A portion of a randomly chosen mitochondrial cluster of friendly, or of a tubule in the network mutant, was bleached using 80% argon laser power followed immediately by a reduction of the argon laser power to 10% and capture of 300 images 1 s apart to observe any GFP recovery. In order to visualize actin filaments and mitochondria, a double transgenic line was generated by crossing mito-GFP with a second line (mCherry-mTn) expressing an in-frame fusion of mCherry (CITATION) to the C-terminal 197 amino acids of mouse talin, which forms the actin-binding domain. The mCherry-mTn line was generated by transformation of Arabidopsis Col-0 with pDCLmcherry-mTn. The backbone of pDCLmcherry-mTn, the pDCLmcherry-X destination vector, was a modified pMDC43 (CITATION) in which mGFP6 was replaced by mCherry via pMDC7 and pMDC24. A cDNA fragment encoding the mTalin actin-binding domain was PCR amplified from the pZP202-GFP-mTn vector (CITATION) using attB Gateway primers and recombined into pDONRz. Recombination between pDONRz-mTn and pDCLmCherry-X created pDCLmcherry-mTn. Actin and mitochondria were imaged using microscopy system 1. To visualize microtubules, we PCR amplified, using Gateway attB primers, MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN4 (MAP4; CITATION) from a GFP-MAP4 construct that was a kind gift from Jaideep Mathur (University of Toronto; CITATION). The MAP4 cDNA was recombined with pDONRz, which in turn was recombined with the pDCLmcherry-X destination vector. A stable Arabidopsis line expressing mCherry-MAP4 was crossed with mito-GFP or with the friendly mutant expressing GFP, and the crossed lines were analyzed using fluorescence microscopy. To visualize the plus end of microtubules, we PCR amplified, using attB1primers, the End Binding Protein 1b (EB1b) coding sequence from GFP-EB1b (CITATION), and this was cloned and recombined with pDCLmcherry-X as above. A stable Arabidopsis line expressing mCherry-EB1b was crossed to the wild type and friendly as above. Movies were generated from 250 images of the control mito-GFP line or friendly captured at 1-s intervals using microscopy system 1. Five movies were captured of different regions of the epidermis of the true leaves of three 7-d-old seedlings to give 15 movies (technical replicates). The results presented are means of associations measured in three independent experimental repeats each composed of 15 movies (n = 3). Association time was calculated as the number of frames (seconds), counted from the time a single mitochondrion was within one mitochondrial width of either a second mitochondrion in the case of the wild-type mito-GFP line or of a mitochondrion at the exterior surface of a cluster of mitochondria in the case of friendly, until the same mitochondrion moved at least one mitochondrial width from its partner(s). The dynamic model consists of a set of n model mitochondria positioned on an l × l × l cubic lattice with periodic boundary conditions. Two or more mitochondria cannot occupy the same lattice site. A mitochondrion is labeled as free if none of its six nearest neighbor sites are occupied by another mitochondria; otherwise, it is labeled as clustered. The model is initialized by placing the n mitochondria randomly on the lattice. We use the Gillespie stochastic simulation algorithm (CITATION) to simulate the subsequent dynamics of the model, with each mitochondrion able to move to any of its empty nearest neighbor sites. The rate with which a free mitochondrion moves to a given neighbor is λ1, and the rate with which a clustered mitochondrion moves to a given neighbor is λ2. If mitochondria are very sticky, then λ2/λ1 will be much less than 1. The algorithm is run until the number of clustered mitochondria converges to a steady state, nc. We also define the association time τ as the time interval between an initially free mitochondrion first becoming clustered and thereafter becoming free. We record the average association time over all mitochondria and over simulation time. We use l = 20, n = 400, and λ1 = 1 for these simulations; the results are qualitatively robust across the full range of other reasonable parameterizations (data not shown). We vary λ2, running 20 Gillespie simulations for each value, and record mean values of cluster proportion c = nc/n and τ. Seedlings were grown on vertical plates containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium + 0.8% (w/v) phytagel. The membrane potential of mitochondria in living tissue was determined by CSLM using the red fluorescent potentiometric dye TMRM that accumulates reversibly in mitochondria in response to the inner membrane potential (CITATION). After 4 d, seedlings were incubated in freshly prepared 50 nm TMRM for more than 15 min before confocal imaging of roots bathed in fresh probe. Confocal microscopy, performed using a Zeiss LSM 780 confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, MicroImaging), and data analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). Exchange of matrix-localized mito-mEosFP (CITATION) was analyzed between mitochondria in the leaves of 14-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings. Pieces of detached leaf were mounted in water between a slide and a coverslip on a chambered slide made from two parallel strips of ultrathin double-sided adhesive tape (CITATION). Imaging was performed using a Nikon A1 confocal laser-scanning microscope fitted with a 40× (NA = 1.25) water-immersion objective and using the photoconversion dialogue within the Elements software package. Two frames (1,024 × 1,024 pixels) were captured preconversion at 0.25 fps (pixel dwell time of 2.4 µs). Photoconversion was performed at 0.25 fps (pixel dwell time of 2.2 µs) within a rectangular region of interest using the 405-nm laser at 40% power output and for a total of 6 s. After photoconversion, image capture continued for 72 loops equating to 4.39 min. Green and red channels were captured simultaneously preconversion and postconversion using a 488-nm laser at 1% and a 561-nm laser at 1.5%, respectively. CSLM time courses were saved as .avi files and analyzed using a custom-designed Matlab program (CITATION). Green-red ratios were calculated for an identical number of pixels covered by each identified mitochondrion in each of the 74 movie frames of each biological replicate. The green-red pixel ratio was calculated for each identified mitochondrion at each time point. Calculation of the numbers of green mitochondria used a threshold of average + sd of the green-red pixel ratio preconversion. The initial and final percentages of green mitochondria postconversion were calculated using the average of the first three (i.e. frames 4, 5, and 6) or the last three (i.e. frames 72, 73, and 74) time points, respectively. To measure the rate of plant root growth, seeds were germinated and grown on aseptic agar plates as described above, with the plates maintained in a vertical orientation so that the roots grew along the surface of the agar. Measurements were made of 20 seedlings (technical replicate) for each time point per experiment (biological replicate), and the results presented are means of the three biological replicates. Wild-type mito-GFP or Col-0 were used as controls for friendly or friendly-3, respectively. To measure etiolated hypocotyl length, seeds were germinated and grown on MS agar plates in the dark (plates covered with aluminum foil). Hypocotyl length was measured after 7 d, and technical and biological replication was as described for root length. To measure biomass, seeds were germinated and grown on MS agar plates as above for 7, 14, 21, or 28 d. At each time point, free surface moisture of 15 seedlings was removed gently using a soft paper towel before their total fresh weight was recorded. The seedlings were then completely dried and reweighed. The experiment was repeated three times, and the results presented represent the mean (n = 3). Whole seedlings (6 d old) were stained in PI solution (3 µg mL−1) for 2 min followed by a quick wash in distilled water. Stained roots were mounted in water between the slide and coverslip and observed by CSLM. To visualize dead cells using SYTOX Orange, roots of 6-d-old seedlings were stained in 250 nm SYTOX Orange (Life Technologies) for 20 min followed with a quick washing step in distilled water. Z-stacks were captured by CSLM using imaging parameters as described above, and the number of dead cells, as visualized by a SYTOX Orange-stained nucleus, was counted in the root cap, division zone, elongation zone, and differentiating zone. Arabidopsis mito-GFP and friendly were grown on MS agar for 6 d. Seedlings were stained with 1 µm LysoTracker Red DND-99 (Life Technologies) in 0.5× MS medium for 5 min at room temperature to visualize acidic compartments. After staining, the seedlings were washed with distilled water to remove excess stain. The root cells (elongation zone) were visualized by CSLM. LysoTracker-stained structures were analyzed using the Analyze Particles command in Fiji (ImageJ). Seeds of Arabidopsis (friendly and mito-GFP) were germinated and grown as described above. Both lines were grown under the same conditions, and 0.1 g of leaves was harvested from each of four plates (each representing a biological replicate) and then frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately before RNA isolation using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The RNA samples representing four biological replicates of each line (friendly and mito-GFP) were labeled (two cy3 and two cy5) and hybridized to slides prepared by the University of Arizona following the protocol described at http://ag.arizona.edu/microarray. Scanning, image analysis, and quantification were as described previously (CITATION). Raw data were saved as a .gpr file and converted into an .mev file using the Express Converter software (version 2.1; Dana Faber Cancer Institute). Data were normalized using the Lowess (locfit) algorithm and block normalization in the MIDAS software (version 2.22; Dana Faber Cancer Institute). Duplicates in the data set were removed by averaging intensity values using the FiRe macro (CITATION). Significantly regulated transcripts were detected using Cybr-T Bayesian probabilistic framework analysis (CITATION; Bayes P < 0.05). Functional class scoring was implemented using MapMan software (CITATION) applying the Benjamani-Hochberg correction. The data sets were deposited at the European Bioinformatics Database ArrayExpress database according to the Minimum Information about a Microarray Experiment guidelines. Seeds of the wild type or friendly were germinated and grown hydroponically for 7 d as described by CITATION. Oxygen uptake was measured in the same growth medium using a Clark-type oxygen electrode (Hansatech). Cyanide-sensitive oxygen uptake was measured in the presence of 0.5 mm KCN before the addition of propylgallate to 0.1 mm. Total chlorophyll content (μg mL−1 = 7.04 × A664 + 20.27 × A647) was measured using the dimethylformamide method of CITATION. Measurements were made using four biological replicates (n = 4), and data are presented as means ± sd. Plants were grown as described above. Fully developed rosette leaves were placed in the dark for 15 min prior to determining dark-adapted initial and maximum PSII fluorescence (Fo and Fm). All measurements were performed using an XE-PAM system (Heinz Walz), and the data were collected via the PAM-Data Acquisition System (PDA-100) interfaced with the WinControl Software version 2.08 (following the manufacturer’s instructions). To induce minimal fluorescence, the weak modulated light source was turned on and data were collected for 30s. Once the signal had stabilized, an 800-ms pulse of 4,000 µmol photons m−2 s−1 was applied to the leaf to close the PSII reaction centers and generate Fm. The leaf was then exposed to an actinic light source until a steady-state level of fluorescence was reached (Fs). To estimate the fraction of closed PSII reaction centers at steady state, a saturating flash was applied and maximum PSII fluorescence in the light-adapted state (Fm′) was determined. Following the saturating flash, the actinic light was removed and a weak far-red light (102-FR; Heinz Walz) was applied to oxidize the electron transport chain. When a steady state was reached, Fo′ was determined. The actinic light intensity was then increased and the same steps were repeated. The dark-adapted optimal quantum yield of photosynthesis was calculated as variable PSII fluorescence in the dark-adapted state (Fv)/Fm according to the equation [Fv/Fm = (Fm − Fo)/Fm; CITATION; CITATION]. The relative redox state of PSII at steady state was estimated at each light level using the term 1 − qL, where qL = (Fm − Fs)/(Fm − Fo) × (Fo/Fs) (CITATION). Similarly, the amount of nonphotochemical quenching was estimated at each light level using the term NPQ, where NPQ = (Fm − Fm′)/Fm (CITATION). To estimate the functional activity of PSI in friendly, fully developed rosette leaves from the same plants used for PSII analyses were examined using a PAM-101 control unit equipped with the ED-P700DW Dual-Wavelength-P700 emitter/detector (Heinz Walz). Data were collected using the PDA-100 interfaced as described (CITATION; CITATION). Far-red light was applied to the leaf using the 102-FR light source. The deflection in the signal (ΔA820/A820) was used to estimate the amount of oxidizable P700 (CITATION). The functional pool size of intersystem electrons was determined by applying single-turnover (ST) and multiple-turnover (MT) flashes (CITATION; CITATION). The single-turnover flash had a one-half-peak width of 10 µs produced by the XE-Pump Flash Control Unit (XE-STC; Heinz Walz). The multiple-turnover flash had a duration of 50 ms. Both flashes were produced using the XMT-103 power/control unit (Heinz Walz). The number of intersystem electrons per P700 was calculated using the equation e−/P700 = MTarea/STarea. The areas under the curve were calculated using the Origin 9.0 software package (OriginLab). The relative rate of P700 reduction following removal of the far-red light was calculated by finding the time required to reach one-half of the dark reduction level and thus is presented as a half-time value (CITATION). Experimental details for the extraction of proteins from Arabidopsis, digestion, enrichment, and MS analysis of Lys-acetylated peptides are given by CITATION. Unless stated otherwise, results are expressed as means ± se of data obtained from independent experiments representing true biological replicates. Significant differences between mean values were calculated using Student’s t test. Fluorescence micrographs including time-lapse movies and z-stacks had within-image annotations (arrows, scale bars, and time stamps) added using Fiji (CITATION). Occasional additional annotation was performed in Photoshop. All images were exported as TIFFs, and composite figures were constructed in Adobe Illustrator before exporting as TIFFs. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Analysis of cluster size and number in the friendly-3 T-DNA mutant. Supplemental Figure S2. Disruption of the actin cytoskeleton can phenocopy for FRIENDLY mutation while peroxisome distribution is unaffected in friendly. Supplemental Figure S3. Transient expression of FRIENDLY N- and C-terminal mRFP1 fusions in friendly mutant seedlings. Supplemental Figure S4. Whole plant phenotype of wild type (Col-0) and the friendly-3 T-DNA mutant. Supplemental Figure S5. Fragmentation spectrum of a lysine-acetylated peptide unique to FRIENDLY (At3g52140). Supplemental Table S1. List of identified significantly regulated nonredundant transcripts. Supplemental Movie S1. Z-stacks through wild type or friendly leaves. Supplemental Movie S2. FRAP. Supplemental Movie S3. Mitochondria and actin in the wild type and friendly. Supplemental Movie S4. Mitochondrial clusters in the friendly mutant are modified by movement through the cytoplasm. Supplemental Movie S5. Mitochondria and actin: development and disruption of a cluster in friendly. Supplemental Movie S6. Mitochondrial clusters and microtubules, or the plus-ends of microtubules. Supplemental Movie S7. Dual transient expression of FRIENDLY-GFP and mito-mCherry in a tobacco epidermal cell. Supplemental Movie S8. Mitochondrial association/disassociation events. Supplemental Movie S9. Mitochondrial membrane potential pulsing. Supplemental Movie S10. In vivo fusion assay. Supplemental Document S1. Simple analytic argument recapitulating clustering through modulation of association time.
