!~ABS~! Tubby and Tubby-like proteins (TLPs) play essential roles in the development and function of mammal neuronal cells. In addition to the conserved carboxyl (C)-terminal Tubby domain, which is required for their plasma membrane (PM) tethering, plant TLPs also possess an amino (N)-terminal F-box domain to interact with specific Arabidopsis Skp1-like (ASK) proteins as functional SCF-type E3 ligases. Here, we report the molecular characterization of Arabidopsis TLPs (AtTLPs). β-Glucuronidase staining showed overlapped but distinct expression patterns of AtTLPs in Arabidopsis. Yeast two-hybrid assays further revealed that AtTLP1, AtTLP3, AtTLP6, AtTLP7, AtTLP9, AtTLP10 and AtTLP11 all interacted with specific ASKs, but AtTLP2, AtTLP5 and AtTLP8 did not. Subcellular localization observations in both Arabidopsis protoplasts and tobacco pollen tubes indicated that all GFP-AtTLP fusion proteins, except GFP-AtTLP8 which lacks the conserved phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate binding sites, were targeted to the PM. Detailed studies on AtTLP3 demonstrated that AtTLP3 is a PM-tethered PIP2 binding protein which functions redundantly with AtTLP9 in abscisic acid (ABA)- and osmotic stress-mediated seed germination. Our results suggest that AtTLPs possibly work in multiple physiological and developmental processes in Arabidopsis, and AtTLP3 is also involved in ABA signaling pathway like AtTLP9 during seed germination and early seedling growth.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, all AtTLPs contain a conserved C-terminal Tubby domain, and except AtTLP8, an N-terminal F-box domain. RT-PCR analyses have shown that AtTLP family genes were widely expressed in different tissues such as roots and flowers (Lai et al. CITATION). Therefore, the function of these genes may be highly redundant, unless their expression patterns are different. To dissect the possible functions of these genes, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing AtTLP promoter-driven GUS reporter transgene. The histochemical activity of β-glucuronidase (GUS) in transgenic plants was investigated. Such examinations revealed rather distinct expression patterns of AtTLP genes. Although no ProAtTLP4:GUS expression was observed in any tested tissues of transgenic plants, GUS was expressed in various tissues of transgenic plants expressing all other ProAtTLP:GUS (Fig. 1). This is consistent with the previous report that AtTLP4 might be a pseudogene (Lai et al. CITATION). In the flowers of most transgenic plants, GUS was predominantly expressed in the petals (Fig. 1a, b). With exception of AtTLP2 and AtTLP6, GUS expression was also observed in stigmas (Fig. 1b) and broadly expressed in the siliques (Fig. 1c). Interestingly, AtTLP3, AtTLP9 and AtTLP11 share very high amino acid similarities (Fig. 2a, b), and strong GUS expression was observed in the leaves of transgenic plants expressing ProAtTLP3:GUS, ProAtTLP9:GUS or ProAtTLP11:GUS (Fig. 1d). During early seedling development (5-day-old seedlings), GUS was preferentially expressed in cotyledons and hypocotyl nodes (Fig. 1e). In roots, strong GUS staining was observed in the elongation zones and root tips of transgenic plants harboring ProAtTLP1:GUS and ProAtTLP10:GUS, and in the root stele of those harboring ProAtTLP3:GUS and ProAtTLP11:GUS. Moreover, specific GUS staining was also observed in the root tips of transgenic plants harboring ProAtTLP7:GUS and in the meristems of those expressing ProAtTLP8:GUS, but not in plants expressing ProAtTLP2:GUS, ProAtTLP5:GUS, ProAtTLP6:GUS or AtTLP9 (Fig. 1f). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Although the deduced amino acid sequence and structural analyses have suggested that all plant TLP proteins contain a conserved N-terminal F-box domain for ASK protein binding, and AtTLP9 interacted with ASK1, the subunit of SCF-type complex, as a putative functional SCF-type E3 ligase (Lai et al. CITATION), experimental evidence for interaction of AtTLPs and ASK family members is still limited. To determine whether AtTLPs interact with specific ASKs, we fused each of the ten AtTLPs with BD (pGBKT7) and each of the seventeen ASKs with AD (pGADT7), and introduced each combination from the two protein families into yeast strain AH109. Interaction of AtTLPs and ASKs was examined. AtTLP1, AtTLP3, AtTLP6, AtTLP7, AtTLP9, AtTLP10 and AtTLP11 all interacted with specific ASK proteins, suggesting that they may work as functional SCF-type E3 ligase in Arabidopsis (Fig. 3a, Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]]  Previously, it was reported that the mouse Tubby protein was targeted to plasma membrane through binding to specific phosphoinositides like PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Santagata et al. CITATION). A recent study also showed that Arabidopsis AtTLP3 was targeted to the plasma membrane by transient expression of GFP fusion in the leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis (Reitz et al. CITATION). Since subcellular localization is crucial for the functional analyses of most proteins, we examined the subcellular localization of AtTLPs in Arabidopsis protoplasts. GFP-tagged AtTLPs were transiently expressed in mesophyll protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis rosette leaves. Confocal imaging showed that with exception of GFP-AtTLP8, which lacks the conserved PIP2 binding sites (Fig. 2b, indicated with two triangles), fluorescence signals of all other GFP-AtTLP fusion proteins precisely coincided with the plasma membrane, unlike the ubiquitous distribution of free GFP (Figs. 3b, 4b). Slight localization of GFP-AtTLP5 in the cytosol was also observed. [[FIGURE]]  To further confirm the PM localization of these AtTLPs, we co-expressed each GFP-AtTLPs with monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)-pleckstrin homology (mRFP-PLCδ1-PH), a specific PI(4,5)P2 binding marker, in the pollen tubes of tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana), where PtdIns(4,5)P2 is apically accumulated at the pollen tube tips. Again, except GFP-AtTLP8, which was ubiquitously spread, all GFP-AtTLP proteins coincided with the distribution of mRFP-PLCδ1-PH on the plasma membrane (Fig. S2). These observations suggest that AtTLP proteins are anchored to the plasma membrane, probably by binding to specific phosphoinositides. It has been well documented that mammalian TLPs were tethered to the plasma membrane (PM) via Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) binding in the C-terminal Tubby domain (Boggon et al. CITATION; Santagata et al. CITATION). A recent study also revealed that phospholipase C triggered the release of AtTLP3 from the PM, indicating a conserved mechanism for mammalian Tubby and TLP3 (Reitz et al. CITATION). To understand whether the PIP2 binding activity is indeed conserved in plant TLPs, we performed detailed study with AtTLP3, a PM-localized ortholog of mammalian Tubby protein (Fig. 4a, b). As a first step, we purified Arabidopsis AtTLP3 protein (Fig. S3) and tested its PIP2 binding activity in vitro. AtTLP3 was able to bind PtdIns(3,4)P2, PtdIns(3,5)P2 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Fig. 4c, e). Co-localization of GFP-AtTLP3 with mRFP-PLCδ1-PH further confirmed the PIP2 binding activity of AtTLP3 in vivo (Fig. 4b). Another representative property of plant TLPs is the amino-terminal F-box domain (Fig. 4a). To further elucidate whether the F-box domain also contribute to its PM-tethering, we constructed two fusion proteins, GFP-AtTLP3NT (amino acids 1-110 containing the F-box domain) and GFP-AtTLP3CT (amino acids 111-406 containing the Tubby domain), and transiently expressed each of them in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Deletion of the C-terminal Tubby domain aborted the PM localization of GFP-AtTLP3NT, on the other hand, removing of the N-terminal F-box domain did not change the PM targeting of GFP-AtTLP3CT, suggesting that the C-terminal Tubby domain of AtTLP3 is required and sufficient to confer PM localization (Fig. 4f). To identify the exact PM targeting determinants of AtTLP3, we replaced the conserved PIP2 binding sites K187 (Lysine187) and R189 (Arginine189) with Alanine (A) (Figs. 2b, 4a), and transiently expressed the mutated fusion protein AtTLP3 m-GFP in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Mutation of the PIP2 binding sites disturbed the PM tethering of AtTLP3 m-GFP protein (Fig. 4f). Therefore, PIP2 binding of the C-terminal Tubby domain is crucial for the PM tethering of AtTLP3. A recent study has exhibited that abiotic stresses such as NaCl and mannitol were able to translocate the GFP-tagged AtTLP3 Tubby domain (GFP-CT-AtTLP3Δ1-115) from PM into the cytosol and nucleoplasm (Reitz et al. CITATION). To understand whether the whole AtTLP3 protein is also removable from PM, we examined the movement of GFP-AtTLP fusion protein in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts upon treatments with 0.4 M mannitol, 0.3 M NaCl or 20 mM H2O2. Similar results were observed in our experiments. Under normal condition, GFP-AtTLP3 was clearly targeted to the PM. However, upon treatment with 0.4 M mannitol, 0.3 M NaCl or 20 mM H2O2, GFP-AtTLP3 was completely released into the cytosol (Fig. 5), while the control protein AtNSR3 (AT1G72220) was not (Fig. S8). These observations imply that AtTLP3 may also play a role in the response to osmotic stress in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]  Phylogenic analyses have shown that AtTLP3 share very highly homology with AtTLP9 (Fig. 2a, b). To identify the biological function of AtTLP3, three T-DNA insertion lines attlp3-1, attlp3-3, attlp3-7 of AtTLP3 were characterized (Fig. 6a, Fig. S4). The attlp3 mutants contained a T-DNA insertion in the first extron of AtTLP3 (Fig. 6a). Homozygous attlp3 mutants were isolated. The attlp3 mutant lacked detectable level of transcripts for AtTLP3 (Fig. S4b). When grown on normal MS medium, attlp3 plants did not show any visible phenotypic changes. Seed germination and subsequent seedling growth of attlp3 were similar to the wild type (Fig. 6b, c). However, attlp3 mutants were insensitive to ABA treatment compared to wild type. Germination in the wild type was significantly inhibited by high concentrations of ABA, but the inhibition in attlp3 seeds was less severe (Fig. 6b, c). At 0.5 µM ABA, more than 83 % of attlp3-1 and 70 % of attlp3-7 seeds germinated, whereas less than 65 % of Col-0 and 19 % of WS wild type seeds germinated, respectively. The germination difference was also significant at 0.75 µM ABA: more than 45 % of attlp3-1 and 37 % of attlp3-7 seeds germinated, whereas less than 24 % of Col-0 and 18 % of WS wild type seeds germinated, respectively. The germination rate of attlp3-1 and attlp3-7 on 1 µM ABA were 35 % and 27 %, and their corresponding wild type were 24 % and 8 % (Fig. 6c). Therefore, AtTLP3 appears to act as a positive regulator in ABA-mediated inhibition of seed germination. [[FIGURE]]  Previously, AtTLP9 knocked out mutants was found to be ABA insensitive (Lai et al. CITATION). Based on the facts that AtTLP3 and AtTLP9 share very high homology and attlp3 mutants showed similar response to ABA treatment as attlp9, we postulated that both AtTLP3 and AtTLP9 may have redundant function in Arabidopsis (Figs. 2a, b, 6b, c). To verify this hypothesis, attlp3attlp9 double mutant was generated. Among the three attlp3 mutants and two attlp9 mutants we have identified, both attlp3-3 and attlp9-1 contained a single copy of T-DNA insertion, as confirmed by Southern blotting analysis (Fig. S4a). Therefore, attlp3attlp9 double mutant was identified in the F2 populations derived from a cross between attlp3-3 and attlp9-1 single mutants. The attlp3-3attlp9-1 double mutant lacked detectable level of transcripts for both AtTLP3 and AtTLP9 (Fig. S4b). The germination rates of wild type (Col-0), attlp3-3, attlp9-1 and attlp3-3attlp9-1 seeds on MS media supplemented with different concentrations of ABA were compared. Both single and double mutant seeds exhibited insensitivity to ABA as compared with the wild type seeds. In addition, mutant seeds and seedlings were also resistant to osmotic stress. As shown in Figs. 7 and 8, germination of wild type seeds was similar to that of mutant seeds when sown on normal MS medium without ABA or mannitol (Fig. 7a, b, 8a, b). However, when high concentration of ABA or mannitol was added to the MS medium, germination of wild type seeds was significantly inhibited compared to the mutant seeds (Figs. 7c, d, Fig. 8a, b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  At 0.5 µM ABA, more than 46 % of attlp3-3, 58 % of attlp9-1 and 65 % of attlp3-3attlp9-1 seeds germinated, but the germination frequency for wild type seeds was less than 34 %. The germination difference was even more significant at 0.75 µM ABA: more than 25 % of attlp3-3, 33 % of attlp9-1 and 53 % of attlp3-3attlp9-1 seeds germinated, whereas less than 8 % of wild type seeds germinated (Fig. 8a). Similarly, germination frequency of wild type, attlp3-3, attlp9-1 and attlp3-3attlp9-1 was 47, 45, 73 and 82 %, respectively, on the medium containing 330 mM mannitol, and 17, 16, 33 and 69 % on the medium containing 375 mM mannitol (Fig. 8b). The germination frequency of attlp3-3, attlp9-1 and attlp3-3attlp9-1 in the ABA or mannitol medium was different. The difference of germination frequency between wild type and attlp3-3attlp9-1 double mutant was larger than that between wild type and attlp3-3 or attlp9-1 single mutant (Fig. 8a, b). All these results imply that AtTLP3 function redundantly with AtTLP9 during seed germination and early seedling growth in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! Except for attlp3-7 which is in the WS ecotype background, all the accessions of Arabidopsis thaliana are Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype. Five-day-old seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Sigma-Aldrich) supplemented with 2 % (w/v) sucrose and 0.8 % (w/v) agar were transplanted into soil and then grown under 16 h of light/8 h of dark cycles in the green house at 22 °C (light) or 20 °C (dark). To identify the T-DNA insertion in attlp1-1 (SALK_026655), attlp1-2 (GK-540D06), attlp2-3 (SALK_122519), attlp3-3 (SALK_117348), attlp3-7 (FLAG_462A07), attlp6-1 (SALK_019494), attlp7-2 (GK-729B04), attlp8-3 (GK-918A08), attlp10-3 (SALK_028746), attlp10-4 (GK-088B03), attlp11-4 (SAIL_41_B07) and attlp11-7 (FLAG_441G06), the T-DNA border of these SALK, SAIL, FLAG and GABI-Kat lines were confirmed using the T-DNA left-border primers LBa1, SAIL-LB1, FALG-LB4, pGABI-LB2, pAC161-LB1 and the corresponding gene specific primers (Table S1). The T-DNA insertion in these mutants was investigated by genomic PCR to confirm the disruption of the endogenous gene. Homozygous mutants were identified by RT-PCR to confirm the disruption of gene expression. ACTIN2 was employed as an internal control. To generate the ProAtTLP:GUS constructs, the 5′-flanking DNA of AtTLP coding regions was amplified with the AtTLP promoter specific primers (Table S1). An average length of ~ 2.3 kb genomic sequence was chosen for each vector construction. The amplified PCR fragments were digested with BamHI and SalI, and cloned into the same sites in the p1381Z vector for sequence confirmation. The constructs were then separately transformed into wild type Arabidopsis (Col-0 ecotype) plants, as described previously (Clough and Bent CITATION). For histochemical analysis, five-day-old seedlings and different tissues from 6-week-old plants were collected and stained with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3- indolyl-d-glucuronide for 24 h. They were then incubated in 75 % ethanol to remove chlorophyll as described previously (Jefferson et al. CITATION). Seeds of wild-type Col-0 and each mutant line grown under the same conditions were collected at the same time. For each comparison, seeds were sown on the same plate containing MS medium supplemented with or without different concentrations of ABA or mannitol as indicated. Plates were stratified at 4 °C for 3 days and transferred to 22 °C with 16 h/light and 8 h/dark cycles in a growth chamber for 7 days. The effect of ABA or mannitol on germination greening is defined as that cotyledons have obviously expanded and turned green. The number of T-DNA insertions was tested by Southern blotting analysis as described previously (Wang et al. CITATION). Briefly, genomic DNA (10 μg) isolated from 45-day-old Col-0 and mutant plants were digested with EcoRI, BamHI or PstI, electrophoresed on 0.8 % agarose gels, and transferred onto Hybond N+ nylon membranes with a Whatman Biometra Vacuum-Blot System. The hybridization probe was amplified with the SALK-line specific primers (F: AATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTT CCT and R: TCATCTATGTTACTAGATCGGGCC) (Cheng et al. CITATION). Probe labeling and Southern blotting analyses were conducted with a DIG DNA Labeling and Detection Kit1 (Roche, Germany) following the manufacturer’s instructions. To determine the subcellular localization of AtTLPs, all AtTLP genes were inserted into the vector pRTL2-GFP with GFP at the N-terminal of each AtTLP, driven by constitutive 35S promoter. The resultant GFP-AtTLP fusion proteins were transiently transformed, or co-transformed with mRFP-PH (mRFFP-PLCδ1 PH) into Arabidopsis protoplasts (Yoo et al. CITATION). For detailed co-localizaion analysis, the corresponding GFP-AtTLP was co-transformed with mRFP-PH into tobacco pollen tubes. Equal amount of GFP-AtTLP and mRFP-PH plasmid was used for co-transformation. Fluorescence was analyzed for GFP and RFP expression using a confocal microscope at wavelength 488 and 559 nm for excitation, and 509 and 608 nm for emission (Olympus FluoView1000, confocal microscope). For GST-ATLP3 proein purification, cDNA of AtTLP3 gene was inserted into pEGX-4T1 via the EcoR I and Sal I sites. After sequence confirmation, the construct was introduced into E. coli strain BL21 (DE3), BL21 (Rosetta) or BL21 (Coden plus), respectively. GST-AtTLP3 protein was induced by 0.1 mM IPTG at 18 °C for 3 days (Fig. S3). Purification of GST-AtTLP3 was performed with Glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare) following the manufacture’s manuals. For the in vitro PIP2 binding assay, PIP strips (P-6001; Echelon Biosciences) were pre-blocked in TBS-T buffer (10 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1 % Tween 20) containing 1 % fatty acid free milk for 1 h at 25 °C, then GST or the recombinant GST-AtTLP3 protein was added to a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. The strips were incubated for another 2 h, washed three times with TBS-T buffer, incubated in TBS-T buffer with 1:1,000 mouse anti-GST antibody (Kangwei biotechnology, Shanghai, China) for 45 min, and washed three times with fresh TBS-T buffer. The signals were detected with the gel imaging and documentation system (Tannon-4200, Shanghai, China) according to the ECL Plus immunoblot method. BiFC experiments were performed as described previously (Luo et al. CITATION). Briefly, the coding regions of AtTP3 or AtTLP9 were fused in frame with the N-terminal fragment of YFP to generate p35S:AtTLP3-YN or p35S:AtTLP9-YN. ASK1 was fused with the C-terminal fragment of YFP to generate p35S:ASK1-YC. The resultant constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and infiltrated into the leaves of N. benthamiana. After 2 days, the epidermis of infiltrated leaves was examined for YFP signals under a Zeiss 510META confocal laser scanning microscope at a wavelength of 514 nm. For yeast-two-hybrid assay, the coding regions of AtTLPs were amplified with the corresponding gene specific primers (Table S1), and introduced into pGBKT7 bait plasmid to produce a fusion protein with the GAL4 DNA binding domain. Except for ASK1, all the other ASKs were amplified from the plasmids generously provided by Schumann et al. (CITATION), and inserted into pGADT7 prey plasmid containing the GAL4 activation domain. Different combinations of these two kinds of plasmids were transformed into yeast strain AH109 by the lithium chloride-polyethyleneglycol method according to the manufacturer’s manual (Clontech, Shanghai, China). Transformants were selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp plates at 30 °C, and interactions were tested on SD plates lacking Adenine and Histine (SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His/-Ade), as described previously (Bao et al. CITATION).
