!~ABS~! SUN-domain proteins belong to a gene family including classical Cter-SUN and mid-SUN subfamilies differentiated by the position of the SUN domain within the protein. Although present in animal and plant species, mid-SUN proteins have so far remained poorly described. Here, we used a combination of genetics, yeast two-hybrid and in planta transient expression methods to better characterize the SUN family in Arabidopsis thaliana. First, we validated the mid-SUN protein subfamily as a monophyletic group conserved from yeast to plant. Arabidopsis Cter-SUN (AtSUN1 and AtSUN2) and mid-SUN (AtSUN3 and AtSUN4) proteins expressed as fluorescent protein fusions are membrane-associated and localize to the nuclear envelope (NE) and endoplasmic reticulum. However, only the Cter-SUN subfamily is enriched at the NE. We investigated interactions in and between members of the two subfamilies and identified the coiled-coil domain as necessary for mediating interactions. The functional significance of the mid-SUN subfamily was further confirmed in mutant plants as essential for early seed development and involved in nuclear morphology. Finally, we demonstrated that both subfamilies interact with the KASH domain of AtWIP1 and identified a new root-specific KASH-domain protein, AtTIK. AtTIK localizes to the NE and affects nuclear morphology. Our study indicates that Arabidopsis Cter-SUN and mid-SUN proteins are involved in a complex protein network at the nuclear membranes, reminiscent of the LInker of Nucleoskeleton and Cytoskeleton (LINC) complex found in other kingdoms.
!~RES~! According to the Pfam database at http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk (CITATION), the SUN-domain protein family comprises over 30 different architectures that can be grouped into proteins with an internal SUN domain (mid-SUNs) and proteins containing a SUN domain at their C-terminus (classical or Cter-SUNs). Plant SUN-domain proteins were initially described in Arabidopsis by CITATION and by CITATION in maize. The latter also described the existence of both subfamilies of SUN-domain proteins in plants. Further analysis of the Arabidopsis genome revealed five AtSUN proteins: the two Cter-SUNs (AtSUN1 and AtSUN2) initially described by CITATION and three new mid-SUN proteins (AtSUN3, AtSUN4 and AtSUN5) (Fig. 1A). The mid-SUN proteins have three TM domains – one at the N-terminus and two at the C-terminus, with the latter preceded by a CC domain (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We analysed the SUN domain of selected plant and animal mid-SUN proteins to generate a phylogenetic tree using the SUN domain of Cter-SUN as an outgroup. The topology of the tree strongly suggests that the SUN domains of the two subfamilies of SUN proteins diverged early during evolution before the emergence of the plant and animal kingdoms and are now forming two distinct monophyletic groups (Fig. 1B). Most species display Cter-SUN and mid-SUN proteins, suggesting that both groups have been conserved through evolution (CITATION). We then performed an extensive search in the databases for the presence of proteins with a central SUN domain in order to list mid-SUN proteins in dicot species. The SUN domain of mid-SUN proteins is well conserved (Supplementary Figure S1). Within the 13 selected species analysed all mid-SUN proteins contain a single SUN domain except Vitis vinifera, in which a central and C-terminal SUN domain are found within the same protein (data not shown). Our analysis revealed that it is difficult to distinguish SUN3 from SUN4 except in Brassicaceae, while the SUN5 proteins form a separate group from SUN3–4 (Supplementary Figure S2). Interestingly, while AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 are expressed at low to medium levels in most tissues (Supplementary Figure S3A), AtSUN5 is more expressed in anther, pollen, and various endosperm tissues (Supplementary Figure S3B). This resembles the observations made for the maize desynaptic (dy) gene which is proposed to be ZmSUN3 and which is mainly expressed at meiosis (CITATION). The NE localization of AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 was analysed by transient expression of fluorescent protein fusions in planta. Unfortunately AtSUN5 did not express and could not be included in the following experiments on mid-SUN protein subcellular localization. YFP-AtSUN3 and AtSUN4-YFP localize to the nuclear periphery (Fig. 2A and 2B). In addition, both fusion proteins also localized to the ER. To determine whether AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 are predominately NE- or ER-localized, we measured ER and NE fluorescence of single, randomly selected cells and compared ER/NE-fluorescent intensity ratios with those of ER marker GFP-calnexin and NE markers AtSUN1-YFP/AtSUN2-YFP (Fig. 2C and Supplementary Figure S4). A ratio below 1 is indicative of NE accumulation, as seen for AtSUN1-YFP (0.45±0.01) and AtSUN2-YFP (0.56±0.03), while a ratio above 1 is due to ER accumulation, as observed for GFP-calnexin (1.98±0.19). The ER/NE fluorescence intensity ratios of 0.91±0.08 for YFP-AtSUN3 and 1.19±0.07 for AtSUN4-YFP are both close to 1, indicating that the two mid-SUN proteins appear evenly distributed in the ER and NE (Fig. 2C). Thus, while Cter-SUN proteins are mainly localized at the NE, mid-SUN proteins also accumulate at the ER, reminiscent of yeast and mammalian mid-SUN localization (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 are functionally associated with the ER and NE membranes, we carried out FRAP experiments. Both the mobile portion of a protein population and the rate of protein movement (as indicated by the half time) can be assessed by FRAP and are indicators of protein interactions. Previously, CITATION showed that non-functional proteins like Lamin B Receptor (LBR) are highly mobile (above 90% mobile fraction) in the ER and NE, while functional NE proteins involved in protein–protein interactions within membranes are immobilized (CITATION). Both YFP-AtSUN3 and AtSUN4-YFP appear highly immobilized in both ER and NE membranes (Fig. 2D), indicating that they are involved in protein interactions and therefore functional in these locations. Interestingly, SUN3 was more mobile than SUN4 (Fig. 2D; P < 0.01). While SUN4 mobility seemed similar in both ER and NE membranes (P > 0.05), SUN3 was more mobile in the NE than in the ER (P < 0.05). This suggests that SUN3 may be involved in different protein complexes depending on its membrane localization and therefore may have different functions. It has previously been shown that classical Cter-SUN-domain proteins can form homo- and hetero-oligomers (CITATION). These interactions have been well studied for human SUN2 by crystal structures (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the Cter-SUN proteins AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 interact together with each other (CITATION). We investigated whether there is interaction within the five proteins of the AtSUN family or within the mid-SUN proteins using a split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) system dedicated to membrane proteins, MYTH) (CITATION,CITATION). The MYTH system was previously used to show a direct interaction between the SUN protein UNC-84 of Caenorhabditis elegans and the KASH proteins UNC-83 and KDP-1 (CITATION, CITATION). As a first step, AtSUN1 or AtSUN2 were used as baits. Although genetic interaction has been shown between Cter-SUN MPS3 and mid-SUN SLP1 proteins in yeast (CITATION), no physical interactions have so far been demonstrated between the two subfamilies of SUN proteins in higher organisms. The results obtained were very similar with both baits. As previously shown by acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer (apFRET; CITATION), homo and hetero Cter-SUN oligomers occur (Fig. 3A). Interestingly hetero-oligomers between the two Cter-SUN proteins and two of the mid-SUN proteins, AtSUN3 and AtSUN4, were also observed; however, they form with a slightly lower efficiency (Fig. 3A, 3C). AtSUN5 was not found to form hetero-oligomers with the two Cter-SUN proteins (Fig. 3A, 3C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We then used mid-SUN AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 as baits. Again, interactions between AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 were stronger than between AtSUN3 and AtSUN1 or AtSUN2. Interactions with AtSUN5 could only be detected for AtSUN3 (Fig. 3B and 3C; Supplementary Figure S5). Finally, AtSUN5, when used as bait, interacted strongly with itself and mid-SUN3 (Fig. 3B and 3C; Supplementary Figure S5). Altogether these results demonstrate the capacity of the mid-SUN proteins to form homo- and hetero-oligomers with other members of the SUN-domain protein family. The protein interactions detected by MYTH were confirmed to occur in planta using apFRET. For this, protein fusions of the mid-SUN and Cter-SUN proteins to YFP and CFP were co-expressed. In apFRET an increase in CFP fluorescence upon YFP bleaching indicates interaction between the YFP and CFP-fused proteins (CITATION). An increase of CFP fluorescence and therefore interactions were detected for the following combinations: CFP-AtSUN1 + YFP-AtSUN3, YFP-AtSUN1 + CFP-AtSUN4, CFP-AtSUN2 + YFP-AtSUN3, YFP-AtSUN2 + CFP-AtSUN4, and YFP-AtSUN3 + CFP-AtSUN4 (Table 1). Therefore, MYTH, confocal localization, and apFRET experiments confirm that Cter-SUN and mid-SUN proteins share similar properties. They localize at the NE and are immobilized there. In addition, they are able to interact with each other. The interactions closely resemble the phylogenetic subdivision into Cter-SUN (AtSUN1 and AtSUN2) and mid-SUN (AtSUN3 and AtSUN4) subfamilies. Interactions are stronger within than between both subfamilies. Interestingly, AtSUN5 may be functionally distinct from the other mid-SUN proteins as suggested by the phylogenetic study and protein interactions (Supplementary Figures S1 and S2). Preliminary investigations using the previously published CC- and SUN-domain deletions (CITATION) in a MYTH screen suggested that deletion of the CC domain significantly altered interactions between the AtSUN proteins while the SUN-domain deletion had no obvious effect (data not shown). The effect of the CC deletion construct was weak although reproducible. Therefore, we generated new CC deletions AtSUN1-∆167–226 and AtSUN2-∆167–226, respectively (Fig. 4A), after redefining the domain based on sequence alignment and the CC domain prediction software COILS (CITATION) (see Materials and Methods). These deletions were used as bait in subsequent interaction studies (Fig. 4B). Deletion of the CCs significantly reduced interactions between AtSUN1, AtSUN2, and AtSUN3, and fully abolished interactions with AtSUN4 (Fig. 4B). In addition, AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 deletion mutants, in which the N-terminus and SUN domain were deleted but the CC domain was still present, were able to interact with full-length AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 (Supplementary Figure S6). AtSUN5 was used as a negative control in these experiments as it does not interact with AtSUN1 and AtSUN2. A weak interaction between CFP-AtSUN2∆CC and YFP-AtSUN3 was also confirmed by apFRET (Table 1). These results confirm the involvement of the CC domain in Cter-SUN interactions (CITATION) and also demonstrate its importance for interactions between Cter-SUN and mid-SUN proteins. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We selected single T-DNA insertion mutants and confirmed absence of full-length transcripts for AtSUN3, AtSUN4, and AtSUN5, respectively (Supplementary Figure S7). Mutant alleles are referred to as sun3-1, sun4-1, and sun5-1 hereafter. The single mutants display no obvious growth or fertility defects. While various combinations of double mutants are viable, the triple mutant sun3-1 sun4-1 sun5-1 was lethal under our growth conditions. Indeed, we screened large numbers of seedlings for mid-SUN triple mutants in the progeny of sun4-1 sun5-1 SUN3/sun3-1 or sun3-1 sun4-1 SUN5/sun5-1 plants, but triple mutants were never recovered. Looking carefully at siliques of SUN3/sun3-1 sun4-1 sun5-1 plants, aborted seeds were observed (Fig. 5A). Segregation ratios were not significantly different (P > 0.05) to 25% aborted seeds expected in plants heterozygous for a recessive embryo-lethal mutation. The results suggest that expression of mid-SUNs is needed during early embryo development. These observations further imply that the three mid-SUN proteins, which can be grouped into a monophyletic group (Fig. 1B), are essential for plant survival and that the loss of mid-SUN proteins cannot be functionally compensated by Cter-SUNs. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Commonly, alteration of LINC complex components affect the nuclear shape of plant cells (CITATION). To dissect the impact on nuclear shape for the different mid-SUN proteins, we measured the Circularity Index (CI) and the nuclear area of the single mid-SUN mutants. Only the sun3-1 mutant showed more rounded nuclei by comparison to the wild type (P < 0.01; Fig. 5B). We then studied double mutant plants. However, whereas sun 3-1 is in the Wassilewskija (Ws) background, sun4-1 and sun5-1 were generated in the Columbia (Col) background. As there are differences in nuclear morphology between Ws and Col (Fig. 5B), we only analysed the sun4-1 sun5-1 double mutant. sun4-1 sun5-1 shows weakly but significantly smaller nuclei (P < 0.05; Fig. 5B) and altered nuclear morphology (Fig. 5C). The altered nuclear morphology observed for sun3-1 and sun4-1 sun5-1 mutants, which is reminiscent of phenotypes in sun1 sun2 double mutants (CITATION), suggests that Cter-SUNs and mid-SUNs have some overlapping function, perhaps as part of the same LINC complex. A key characteristic of Cter-SUN-domain proteins is their ability to interact with KASH proteins to form a bridge, the LINC complex, that spans the nuclear envelope (CITATION; CITATION). Recently, CITATION identified the first plant KASH-domain proteins, termed AtWIPs. Their study demonstrates, by co-immunoprecipitation, that both AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 Cter-SUN proteins interact with AtWIP1. To assess whether mid-SUN proteins are also able to interact with members of the KASH-domain protein family to bridge the INM and the ONM, we took advantage of the MYTH system to investigate the interactions between the mid-SUN proteins and AtWIP1. First, AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 were used as bait and AtWIP1 as prey in order to confirm the SUN-KASH interactions described by CITATION in the MYTH system. Interactions could not be detected using the full length AtWIP1 (Fig. 6B). This could be explained by a localization of the full-length AtWIP1 incompatible with the bait to visualize the interaction in yeast (CITATION,CITATION). However interactions were observed when the KASH domain alone (AtWIP1-KASH) was used as prey, although interactions were weaker with AtSUN2 compared to AtSUN1 (Fig. 6B). Interactions with the KASH domain of AtWIP1 were detected with the three mid-SUN proteins as bait (Fig. 6B). In planta interactions between full-length WIP1 (CFP-WIP1) and YFP-AtSUN3 were also observed (Table 1). However, in apFRET no CFP fluorescence increase was observed for CFP-WIP1 and AtSUN4-YFP. This may be due to protein topology causing the YFP and CFP moieties to be too far apart for fluorescence energy transfer to occur despite the interaction. In summary, both MYTH and apFRET demonstrate the capacity of the mid-SUN proteins to interact with a KASH-domain of plant KASH proteins. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify novel SUN-domain protein interaction partners in Arabidopsis, a MYTH screen was performed with the two Cter-SUN proteins AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 as bait (see Materials and Methods). Among positives, several proteins containing TM domains were identified. One of them (accession number AT5G44920) is a protein of unknown function containing a C-terminal TM domain upstream of a PPPS motif, a characteristic signature of the KASH domain (Fig. 7A) (CITATION; CITATION). In addition (and unlike AtWIP1) the protein contains a number of amino acids homologous to mammalian nesprins and Drosophila Msp-300 (CITATION) between (or within) the TM domain and the PPPS motif (Fig. 7A). It does not, however, show homology to any known KASH proteins in the remainder of the sequence as generally observed for KASH proteins (CITATION). However, the DORY programme (CITATION), developed to detect KASH-domain proteins, was successfully used to identify this protein. AT5G44920 encodes two protein isoforms of 242 and 255 amino acids, respectively, both containing the putative KASH-domain and a putative Toll-Interleukin-Resistance (TIR) domain characteristic of a large family of proteins conserved in eukaryotes (CITATION) (Fig. 7A). Although highly conserved, we found the presence of a KASH domain in a member of the TIR-domain family only in a few Brassicaceae species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Arabidopsis lyrata and Thellungiella halophila). AT5G44920 has been renamed AtTIK (for Arabidopsis thaliana TIR-KASH protein) and is referred to as such below. The longer isoform of AtTIK was isolated in our two-hybrid screen, and was subsequently used for all the experiments described here. AtTIK is expressed highly in root, and at lower levels in other tissues (Genevestigator data; Supplementary Figure S8). Binding properties of AtTIK in the MYTH system reveals that it is able to form homomers (Fig. 7B). Furthermore, truncation of the KASH domain (deletion from amino acids 191 to 255, including the PPPS motif and the TM domain upstream; Fig. 7A), hereafter called AtTIK-∆KASH, significantly reduced these protein interactions, demonstrating the involvement of the KASH domain itself in this process (Fig. 7B). We confirmed that the loss of homomers was not a consequence of lower expression levels or instability of the deletion construct as both AtTIK and AtTIK-∆KASH were expressed at similar levels in the MYTH (Fig. 7C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether AtTIK is localized at the NE, fluorescent protein fusions of the full-length protein were generated and transiently expressed in plant tissue, driven by a 35S promoter. Unfortunately the full-length protein did not express. Instead, two truncations of the protein were fused to fluorescent proteins and transiently expressed. The first was AtTIK-∆KASH and the second, hereafter referred to as AtTIK-KASH, consisted of the KASH domain (TM domain and the PPPS motif) alone. YFP-AtTIK-∆KASH was soluble and predominately accumulated in the nucleus (Fig. 7D). On the other hand, CFP-AtTIK-KASH localized at the nuclear periphery and in the ER of some brightly fluorescent cells (Fig. 7D). The combination of those two truncations strongly indicates that AtTIK is NE-localized, which is typical for a member of the KASH protein family and consistent with the localization of its interacting partners. We used the MYTH system to establish whether AtTIK interacts with mid-SUN proteins and whether its putative KASH domain is required for interaction (Fig. 8A). Used as bait, the two Cter-SUN proteins interact with AtTIK, although weakly in the case of AtSUN2. Interestingly the interaction is completely abolished when the putative KASH domain is deleted (AtTIK-∆KASH) (Fig. 8A). This result validates the putative KASH domain of AtTIK as functional. Secondly, we tested the three mid-SUN proteins as bait to determine if these proteins are also able to interact with AtTIK. As shown in Fig. 8A and 8B, the mid-SUN proteins indeed interact with the KASH-domain protein. Additionally these interactions are completely abolished when the KASH domain (AtTIK-∆KASH) is deleted. All these interactions were subsequently confirmed by using AtTIK as bait with the two SUN subfamilies as a prey (Fig. 8C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition to the MYTH, the functionality of the KASH domain in mediating SUN–KASH interactions in planta was investigated. Using apFRET, interactions were detected between CFP-AtTIK-KASH and AtSUN1-YFP, AtSUN2-YFP, YFP-AtSUN3, and AtSUN4-YFP (Table 1). Altogether, interactions between mid-SUN and KASH proteins (AtWIP1 and AtTIK), via the KASH domain, demonstrates a conserved functionality of the Cter-SUN and mid-SUN subfamilies in respect to NE bridging. The predominant expression of AtTIK in roots led us to investigate root growth in a T-DNA insertion line. For the homozygous Salk_205745 mutant line (tik-1) no full-length transcript for AtTIK was detected (Fig. 9A). Observation of seedling growth over a 14-day time period revealed that tik-1 had shorter roots (Fig. 9B). No other obvious growth phenotypes were observed. In metazoans, tissue-specific expression of KASH proteins such as KASH5 has been observed, and previously AtSINE1 was identified to be guard cell specific. The expression pattern and mutant phenotype of AtTIK imply that it is also a tissue-specific KASH protein linked to processes in root development. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned previously, plant KASH and SUN proteins are commonly linked to nuclear morphology. While the CI of root nuclei in the tik-1 mutant was similar to the wild type, reduced width and length axes as well as a smaller nuclear area were observed (Fig. 9C). This indicates that AtTIK, like other plant LINC complex components, plays a role in nuclear morphology, specifically nuclear size.
!~MM~! Details of the Split-Ubiquitin-based Membrane Yeast Two-Hybrid (MYTH) system have been published previously (CITATION,CITATION). NMY51 strain MATa, his3Δ200, trp1-901, leu2-3,112, ade2, LYS2::(lexAop)4-HIS3, ura3::(lexAop)8-lacZ, ade2::(lexAop)8-ADE2, GAL4, as well as prey plasmid pPR3N (2μ, TRP1, AmpR), and bait plasmid pBT3N (CEN, LEU2, KanR), were purchased from DUALSYSTEM Biotech (http://www.dualsystems.com). Yeast media used were a standard Yeast Nitrogen Base (YNB) supplemented with amino acids and bases as required. Interaction efficiencies were recorded using drop tests on Permissive Medium (PM: YNB without Leu and Trp) and Test Medium (TM: YNB without Leu, Trp, Ade, and His) with serial dilutions (100 000, 10 000, 1000, 100, and 10 cells per drop) of a given strain grown in permissive medium and incubated at 30°C. According to the expected membrane topology of the SUN proteins we fused the N-terminal part of the AtSUN proteins to the reporters. Constructs were generated by ‘gap-repair’ homologous recombination in vivo in yeast (CITATION). cDNAs were amplified using chimeric primer pairs containing 5′ ends with 35bp of homology to the linearized yeast target plasmid (pBT3N for baits or pPR3N for preys), and 3′ ends matching either the first 18 bases (forward primer) or the reverse complement of the last 18 bases (reverse primer) of the different cDNAs. After digestion by SfI1, plasmids pBT3N or pPR3N and PCR-amplified cDNAs were co-transformed into yeast in the ratio 1:3 (Vector:Insert). Clones were selected on plates containing test medium. All constructs were checked by PCR on colonies and sequenced after recovery of the plasmids. For the list of all primers see Supplementary Table S1. Baits were all subsequently tested for their level of self-activation and validated according to CITATION. All baits satisfied these preliminary requirements. Screens for new interacting proteins were performed using a cDNA library (DUALSYSTEM Biotech) cloned into the prey vector pDSL-Nx (2μ, TRP1, AmpR). This library includes 6-day-old seedlings, a mixture of dark grown (etiolated) seedlings and seedlings exposed to blue and far -red light. The vector pOst1–NubI (2μ, TRP1, AmpR) expressing a fusion of the yeast-resident ER protein Ost1 to the wild-type NubI portion of yeast ubiquitin (able to self associate to the Cub half of the ubiquitin protein) was used as positive control prey. The correct expression of the preys was tested by western blotting using an antibody directed against the HA-tag of the fusion protein. Proteins from total extracts expressing the preys were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Gels were used for Coomassie staining (loading control) or protein transfer onto nitrocellulose membrane (Amersham Hybond-ECL). The preys were detected with a rabbit anti-HA tag (Abcam) diluted 1:4000 followed by enhanced chemiluminescence detection (Pierce-ECL). The domain structure for Cter-SUN, mid-SUN, and KASH constructs were analysed using http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/COILS_form.html for coiled-coil (CC) domains (CITATION) and http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM for TM helices (CITATION). The SUN domain was defined first using UniProt database annotation and then refined manually from protein alignment including the Cter-SUN protein human SUN2 as a reference. Crystal structure and site directed mutagenesis of the SUN domain from human SUN2 has recently been obtained (CITATION), and provides a framework for defining the SUN-domain boundaries. The KASH domain was defined first by locating the TM domain and then by protein alignment with other KASH-domain proteins. Mid-SUN coding sequences were used for phylogenic reconstruction. Protein sequences were restricted to the SUN domain and were selected from mid-SUN proteins that had already been described. This included A. thaliana (F4I316: ARATH_SUN3, F4I8I0: ARATH_SUN4, and F4JPE8: ARATH_SUN5), Z. mays (AC195254: MAIZE_SUN3, D3KCC3: MAIZE_SUN4, and B6SKI2: MAIZE_SUN5), Schizosaccharomyces pombe (O59729: SCHPO_SLPI), Rattus norvegicus (Q710E6: RAT_SUCO), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Q12232: YEAST_SLP1), Homo sapiens (Q9UBS9: HUMAN_SUCO), Mus musculus (Q8C341: MOUSE_SUCO) and Dictyostelium discoideum (Q54MI3: DICDI_SUNB). Cter-SUN from A. thaliana (Q9FF75: ARATH_SUN1 and Q9SG79: ARATH_SUN2) and H. sapiens (Q9UH99: HUMAN_SUN2) were used as outgroups. SUN domains were aligned with MUSCLE multiple alignment of protein sequences (CITATION). Maximum Likelihood (ML) analyses were performed with PhyML with default parameters and bootstrap analysis (CITATION). T-DNA mutants sun3-1 (Flag_374A03), sun4-1 (Salk_022028), sun5-1 (Salk_126070), and tik-1 (Salk_205745) were obtained from Arabidopsis stock centres and established as homozygous lines. All mutants are in the Col genetic background except sun3-1 which is in the Ws genetic background. Because Col and Ws display distinct features in their nuclear morphology, the two genetic backgrounds were considered separately. Double and triple mutants were established by crossings and identified by PCR genotyping using primers described in Supplementary Table S1. Strong reduction of respective transcripts was demonstrated for each mutant by RT-PCR using standard conditions and actin as an internal control. Percentages of wild-type and aborted seeds were scored in siliques from self-fertilization of plants from two distinct genotypes: SUN3 sun4-1 sun5-1 and SUN3/sun3-1 sun4-1 sun5-1. Between 15 and 30 siliques were analysed for each genotype in two independent experiments. The coding sequences of AtSUN3, AtSUN4, full-length AtTIK, the TM domain, KASH domain of AtTIK (AtTIK-KASH), and AtTIK-∆KASH truncation missing the KASH domain were amplified using the gene-specific primers listed in Supplementary Table S1. Gateway attB-flanking sequences were added to each of the constructs and gateway technology was used for cloning into pDONR207 and afterwards into expression vectors pCambia 1300, pK7CWG2, and pK7WGC2. Vectors containing GFP-calnexin, AtSUN1-YFP, and AtSUN2-YFP were used as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Expression vectors were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 strains by heat-shock transformation, and were used for transient expression. Nicotiana tabaccum and N. benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with agrobacteria carrying expression vectors for transient expression, as described by CITATION. AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 constructs were co-infiltrated with the silencing inhibitor p19 to increase expression. The subcellular localization of fluorescent fusion proteins in living plant tissue was detected with a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope. Images were processed using the Zeiss LSM image browser and Adobe Photoshop. For ER/NE Fluorescence Intensity (FI) analysis, infiltrated leaf sections were first treated with 25 μM Latrunculin B for 30min to cause ER sheet formation (CITATION). The pinhole was kept low to image a thin optical section of either the ER or the NE sheet. Up to five equally sized, randomly distributed regions of interest (ROIs; 3 µm2) were measured for each sheet. For each randomly selected cell, the average ER FI was divided by the average NE FI to calculate the ER/NE FI ratio. For each sample, the average ratio was calculated. The number of cells analysed for each sample approximated 25. FRAP was used to investigate the mobility of AtSUN3 and AtSUN4 fluorescent protein fusions in the ER and NE. FRAP was carried out as described by CITATION. Briefly, transiently expressing N. benthamiana lower epidermal leaf cells were first treated with Latrunculin B and then imaged with the 514nm laser to excite the YFP. Scanning transmission was kept low and bleaching was performed at 100% transmission. The fluorescence was monitored in a constant-sized ROI pre- and post-bleach. The raw data was converted to percentage and mobile fractions and half times were calculated as described by CITATION, CITATION. Student’s t-test was used for statistical analysis; 30 nuclei per sample were photobleached. Acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer (apFRET) was used to detect in planta protein interactions. ApFRET was performed as described in CITATION and CITATION. Briefly, transiently expressing N. benthamiana leaf tissue was used as described in the previous section. YFP was excited with 514nm light and CFP with 458nm light. The YFP laser transmission was kept low during scanning to avoid photobleaching but was set at 100% during bleaching. Five pre-bleach and five post-bleach scans were carried out in a constant sized ROI. Fluorescence intensity was monitored in the ROI and analysed using Microsoft Excel. For each sample, approximately 35 nuclei were used. Student’s t-test was carried out for statistical analysis. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on half-strength MS agar. For root growth analysis, plates were scanned on days 3, 7, 10, and 14 after germination. ImageJ (CITATION) was used for measuring and Excel for data analysis. For analysis of nuclei, 14-day-old seedlings were removed from the plate and immersed in PBS and ethidium bromide (50:50) solution for ~5min. Seedlings were imaged with a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope using the ×63 oil immersion lens and zoom factor 2. Zeiss LSM image browser was used for width and length measurements and circularity index was calculated by the following equation: Circularity index = width/length. ImageJ was used for nuclear area measurements. All measurement data were analysed using Excel and Student’s t-test was used for statistical analysis. For root-length measurements, 40 plants per sample were used. For analysis of nuclei, at least 15 nuclei from three plants (total of at least 45 nuclei) were used per sample.
