!~ABS~!  The Arabidopsis AP2/ERF family transcription factor AtERF15 is nuclear-localized and positively regulates ABA and stress responses.  Abscisic acid (ABA) is a major plant hormone that controls the expression of hundreds genes involved in various aspects of plant growth and development, such as seed development, germination, seedling growth and abiotic stress response. Several cis-elements mediating the ABA-regulated gene expression have been reported, and one of the regulatory elements is Coupling Element 1 (CE1). We previously isolated a group of AP2/ERF family proteins that bind CE1, but their functions are mostly unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that one of the CE1 binding factors (CEBFs), AtERF15, is involved in ABA response. To investigate the AtERF15 function, we generated its overexpression (OX) lines by expressing the AtERF15 coding region under the control of CaMV 35S promoter and analyzed their phenotypes. We found that the AtERF15 OX lines were hypersensitive to ABA at the germination stage. The ABA hypersensitivity was also observed in our root elongation assay of seedlings. Furthermore, the transgenic lines were hypersensitive to high salinity and high osmolarity at the seedling establishment stage, and the transgenic seedlings were drought-tolerant. We also determined the tissue-specific expression pattern and the subcellular localization of AtERF15. Our results indicate that it is highly expressed in roots and embryos and nuclear-localized. Collectively, our data suggest that AtERF15 is a positive regulator of ABA response.
!~RES~! Our previous study showed that AtERF15 is inducible by high salinity, although it is not induced by ABA and other abiotic stresses (Lee et al. CITATION). To further investigate its tissue-specific expression pattern, we determined its transcript levels in various tissues by real-time RT-PCR. Figure 1a shows that its expression was higher in siliques and roots. Weaker expression was observed in leaves, but AtERF15 expression was not detected in flowers. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the tissue-specific expression of AtERF15 in detail, we prepared transgenic pants harboring an AtERF15 promoter-GUS construct and examined the AtERF15 promoter activity by histochemical GUS staining. Weak GUS activity was observed in the embryo, especially in the axis and its tip region (Fig. 1b). During germination, the GUS activity in the axis gradually increased (Fig. 1b, bottom panels). In seedlings, relatively strong GUS activity was detected in the primary root in the growing region and in the lateral root primordia and lateral root tips. Occasionally, GUS activity was observed in leaves, but no GUS activity was detected in the floral organs. Because the AtERF15 transcript level is salt-inducible (Lee et al. CITATION), we examined whether the GUS activity was induced by high salt. However, we did not observe salt-dependent changes in GUS activity (data not shown). The result implies that AtERF15 transcript level may be post-transcriptionally regulated. To gain further clue to the function of AtERF15, we determined its subcellular localization. A construct containing the AtERF coding region fused to EYFP was prepared, and it was introduced into tobacco leaves by Agroinfiltration (Voinnet et al. CITATION). The subcellular localization was then determined by observing YFP signal under fluorescence microscope. As shown in Fig. 1c, the YFP signal was detected mainly in the nucleus, indicating that AtERF15 is nuclear-localized. To assess the in planta function of AtERF15 in ABA response, we prepared AtERF15 OX lines, in which the AtERF15 coding region is expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, and investigated their ABA sensitivity. We generated 15 independent transgenic lines, and after preliminary analysis, we chose two representative transgenic lines for in-depth analysis. As shown in Fig. 2, the transgenic lines exhibited some degree of growth retardation during early stage of seedling growth. However, mature transgenic plants were similar to wild-type plants in stature and size (Fig. 2b). [[FIGURE]]  To see if ABA sensitivity was altered in the AtERF15 OX lines, we carried out ABA dose–response experiments at different developmental stages. First, we examined ABA response during the germination and seedling establishment stage. Under normal growth condition, seed germination (i.e., radicle emergence) of the transgenic lines was delayed somewhat compared with that of wild-type plants, but the degree of difference was very small, and both wild-type and transgenic seeds germinated in 30 h after imbibition (Fig. 2c). In the presence of ABA, however, transgenic seedling growth was much slower than the wild-type growth (Fig. 3a). To address whether the enhanced growth inhibition is due to slower germination or slower shoot development, we determined germination rates in the presence of ABA. Figure 3b shows that wild-type seed germination was inhibited by ABA gradually. Similarly, transgenic seed germination was inhibited by ABA, but the degree of inhibition was greater than that of the wild-type seed germination. For instance, 78 % of wild-type seeds germinated at 1 μM ABA, whereas approximately 25 % of the transgenic seeds germinated at the same dose of ABA. Wild-type seeds still retained 56 % germination efficiency at 5 μM ABA. By contrast, the germination rates of the transgenic seeds decreased to less than 10 %. The hypersensitive response to ABA was also observed in cotyledon greening process, which is an indicator of shoot development. As shown in Fig. 3c, the greening of transgenic cotyledons was more severely inhibited by ABA than wild-type cotyledons, indicating the ABA hypersensitivity during seedling establishment stage as well. Thus, our results indicated that AtERF15 OX lines are ABA-hypersensitive during both germination and cotyledon greening stages. [[FIGURE]]  When seeds were germinated and seedlings were grown in the continuous presence of ABA, seedling growth was almost completely arrested by low concentration of ABA (Fig. 4a). The germination assay results (Fig. 3) indicated that part of the reason for the retarded growth is the ABA hypersensitivity of germination and shoot development of the transgenic plants. Also, it is possible that root growth itself may be ABA-hypersensitive. To address the question, we next carried out primary root elongation assay. Seedlings were grown in a medium lacking ABA and then transferred to fresh media containing various concentrations of ABA. Their root elongation was then determined 5 days after the transfer. Figure 4b shows that transgenic root elongation was more severely inhibited by ABA than wild-type roots. The hypersensitive response to ABA was more prominent in the transgenic line with higher AtERF15 expression level (#21). The result indicates that primary root elongation of the AtERF15 OX lines is also ABA-hypersensitive and that the degree of ABA hypersensitivity is dependent on the AtERF15 expression level. Collectively, our data demonstrated that both germination and post-germination growths of AtERF15 OX lines are ABA-hypersensitive. [[FIGURE]]  One of the major roles of ABA in seedlings is to mediate adaptive responses to abiotic stresses, such as water deficit, high salinity and high osmolarity (Xiong et al. CITATION). During germination stage, for instance, ABA mediates high salt response. As a result, ABA-insensitive mutants are also insensitive to high salt, whereas ABA-hypersensitive mutants are hypersensitive to salt (Leon-Kloosterziel et al. CITATION; Werner and Finkelstein CITATION). We, therefore, investigated whether stress responses were affected in the AtERF15 OX lines. First, we assessed the high salt response of the transgenic plants. Seeds were plated on media containing 100 or 125 mM NaCl and overall seedling growth was observed. Figure 5a shows that young seedling growth was more severely inhibited by NaCl. We next determined seed germination and cotyledon greening efficiency to examine developmental stage dependence. Figure 5b shows that germination rates of transgenic seeds were more highly inhibited by NaCl than those of the wild-type seeds. Similarly, cotyledon greening of the transgenic plants was also more highly inhibited by NaCl than that of the wild-type seedlings. Thus, the transgenic plants were hypersensitive to high salt during germination and seedling establishment stage. We carried out similar experiments to assess high osmolarity response. Seeds were plated on media containing 3 or 4 % mannitol, and overall growth, seed germination and cotyledon greening efficiency were investigated. Overall growth of young transgenic seedlings was more sensitive to mannitol than wild-type seedlings (Fig. 6a), and mannitol inhibition of seed germination was much higher in transgenic lines (Fig. 6b). In addition, more severe inhibition of cotyledon greening was observed with transgenic seedlings (Fig. 6c). Collectively, our results indicated that AtERF15 OX lines are hypersensitive to high salt and high osmolarity during seed germination and seedling establishment stage. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Because ABA plays a key role in response to water deficit condition, we examined the drought tolerance of the AtERF15 OX lines. Plants were grown for 10 days in soil and then were subjected to water deficit condition by withholding water for 2 weeks. After the treatment, plants were re-watered, and their survival rates were scored. We did not observe clear difference in the survival rate of the transgenic line (#2) with low AtRF15 expression level. However, Fig. 7 shows that the survival rate of the transgenic line (#21) with high AtERF15 expression level was much higher than the wild-type survival rate. [[FIGURE]]  One of the roles of ABA under water deficit condition is to reduce transpiration rates by controlling stomatal opening. We, therefore, determined the transpiration rates of the AtERF15 OX lines. The result showed that transpiration rates of the transgenic lines were slightly lower than wild-type rates (supplementary Fig. S1), but the degree of the difference was small. AtERF15 was isolated as a CE1 binding protein as mentioned earlier (Lee et al. CITATION). Therefore, we asked whether ABA-responsive gene expression was affected by examining the transcript levels of typical ABA- or stress-regulated genes, such as RD29A, RD29B, RAB18, ADH1, COR15A, ABI5 and CBFs. Among the genes we investigated, COR15A (At2g42540) level was approximately fivefold higher in the transgenic lines (Fig. 8). ABI5, which is a bZIP class transcription factor playing an important regulatory role in ABA response during the germination and seedling establishment stages (Finkelstein CITATION), was also up-regulated. Additionally, the expression level of the transcription factor CBF2 (At4g25470), which regulates cold-responsive gene expression, was higher in the transgenic lines. Thus, we observed changes in the transcript levels of several ABA- or cold-regulated genes. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Plants (A. thaliana, ecotype Landsberg erecta, Ler) were grown at 22 °C under long day condition (16 h light/8 h dark cycles). For aseptic growth, seeds were sterilized by treating sequentially with 70 % ethanol for 1 min and 30 % bleach for 4 min and then washed with sterile water five times. The sterilized seeds were plated on MS medium solidified with 0.8 % phytoagar, placed at 4 °C for 3–5 days for stratification and placed at normal growth condition. The MS medium was supplemented with 1 % sucrose and, if necessary, supplemented with ABA, salt, or mannitol as indicated. For soil growth, seeds were spread on soil (1:1:1 mixture of peat moss, vermiculite, and perlite) and, after 3–5 days of stratification at 4 °C, were placed at normal growth temperature. Unless stated otherwise, plants were watered once a week. RNA was isolated employing the RNeasy plant kit (Qiagen, USA), according to the manufacturer’s instruction. Northern blot analysis was carried out as described previously (Lee et al. CITATION). Real-time RT-PCR was conducted as described (Lee et al. CITATION), using primers listed in the Supplementary Table S1. Histochemical GUS assay of the transgenic plants harboring the AtERF15 promoter-GUS construct was conducted as described before (Lee et al. CITATION). For subcellular localization, an AtERF15-EYFP fusion construct was prepared by ligating the AtERF coding region with pFAST/EYFP treated with Xma I. The coding region of the AtERF15 was prepared by PCR amplification using the primers, 5′- aag cccggg ATG GAA TAT TCC CAA TCT TCC ATG-3′ and 5′- aag cccggg ACA TGA GCT CAT AAG AAG TTG TTC-3, and subsequently digested with Xma I. The fusion construct was then Agroinfiltrated into tobacco leaves (Nicotiana benthaminia), as described before (Lee et al. CITATION). The infiltrated tobacco leaves were observed 40–48 h after infiltration with a fluorescence microscope (Olympus BX51) equipped with appropriate filters. To prepare AtERF15 OX lines, the AtERF15 coding region was amplified using the primers 5′-tgc tctaga CTT ATG GAA TAT TCC CAA TCT TCC A-3′ and 5′-AAG ATC AAC ATG AGC TCA TAA GAA G-3′. The amplified fragment was digested with Xba I and ligated with pBI121 (Jefferson et al. CITATION) treated with Xba I and Eco ICRI. To prepare the promoter-GUS construct, 2 kb 5′ flanking sequence was amplified from genomic DNA and, after Sal I/Bam HI digestion, ligated with pBI101.2 treated with the same enzymes. To prepare RNAi lines, a 350 bp fragment of the 3′ half of the coding region was amplified using the primers 5′-att taa tta agg cgc gcc CCC GGT GGA AGT GGT TAG-3′ and 5′-cgc gcc cta gga ttt aaa t TTA ATA GTG GCT TTT GCT GAA ATC-3′. The amplified fragment was digested with Asc I/Swa I and ligated with pFGC5941, which was cut with the same enzymes. The intermediate construct was then digested with Pac I/Avr II and ligated with the amplified fragment cut with the same enzymes.  Arabidopsis transformation was carried out according to Bechtold and Pelletier (CITATION). Fifteen transgenic lines were generated, and, after preliminary analysis, two lines were chosen for detailed analysis. For phenotype analyses, T4 generation homozygous plants were employed, and for histochemical GUS assay, T3 generation plants were employed. Phenotype analyses were carried out as described (Kang et al. CITATION), unless stated otherwise. Briefly, germination (radicle protrusion) was scored after imbibition in the dark on MS medium supplemented with 1 % sucrose and, when needed, various concentrations of ABA, salt or mannitol. Root elongation assay was carried out by measuring the primary root growth after the transfer of young seedlings from ABA-free medium to ABA-containing medium, as indicated in the figure legends. For drought test, 10-day-old plants grown in soil were withheld from water for 2 weeks and re-watered at the end of the treatment. Survival rates were determined 3 days after the re-watering. To minimize experimental variations, same numbers of plants were grown in the same tray.
