!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! As a starting point, we measured the transcript levels of several endogenous TGS markers that are known to be reactivated by high temperatures and compared WT, hit4‐1, mom1 and the hit4‐1/mom1 seedlings. The markers included the centromeric 180‐bp repeat, the pericentromeric TSI repeat, the multicopy ONSEN retrotransposon, and the single copy MULE‐F19G14 locus (Steimer et al., CITATION; Ito et al., CITATION; Matsunaga et al., CITATION). The heat‐induced reactivation of these TGS loci was found previously to be attenuated in the hit4‐1 mutant (Wang et al., CITATION). With the exception of ONSEN, these markers are transcriptionally activated in the mom1 background under non‐stressed growth conditions (Pecinka et al., CITATION; Tittel‐Elmer et al., CITATION). In the hit4‐1/mom1 mutant plants, the normally silent 180‐bp repeat, TSI, and MULE‐F19G14 were activated either before or after prolonged exposure to 37°C for 36 h to extents that were similar to those observed in mom1. By contrast, although transcription of ONSEN was activated in hit4‐1/mom1 after heat treatment, the amount of transcript was considerably less than that observed in the WT and mom1, and identical to that detected in hit4‐1 mutant plants (Fig. 1). These results demonstrated that there are two distinguishable control mechanisms for TGS that involve either HIT4 or MOM1, respectively. These results imply also that, whereas some TGS loci are regulated by both HIT4 and MOM1 (180‐bp, TSI, and MULE), some (e.g. ONSEN in the present study) are controlled specifically by HIT4.  [[FIGURE]] In addition to the constraint of heat‐induced release of TGS, mutation of HIT4 also results in restriction of the heat‐induced decondensation of chromocenters (Wang et al., CITATION). Given that HIT4 and MOM1 are involved in distinct regulatory pathways for TGS, as indicated above, it was considered likely that the phenomenon of maintaining compact chromocenters under heat stress would co‐segregate with hit4‐1 and appear in hit4‐1/mom1 double mutant plants. To verify this, roots of 10‐d‐old seedlings were stained with the fluorescent dye DAPI and the nuclei of cells in the zones of elongation and maturation were monitored for heat‐mediated changes in chromocenter morphology. Before exposure to heat stress, compact chromocenters were clearly visible in most nuclei (> 70%) of hit4‐1/mom1, which was similar to the levels observed in the WT, hit4‐1, and mom1 (Fig. 2). After exposure to heat for 30 h at 37°C or heat shock for 30 min at 44°C, heat‐triggered dispersion of chromocenters was obvious in the WT and mom1, as judged by diffuse nucleoplasmic labeling with DAPI. However, most nuclei (> 70%) of hit4‐1/mom1 maintained discernible DAPI fluorescence in a subnuclear domain as observed for hit4‐1 (Fig. 2). These results indicated that HIT4 but not MOM1 is associated with heat‐induced decompaction of the chromocenters.  [[FIGURE]] Given that heat‐induced decondensation of chromocenters is restricted in hit4‐1 but not in mom1, and previous transient expression analysis using green fluorescent protein (GFP)‐tagged HIT4 protein in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts revealed that HIT4 is localized to chromocenters at 23°C (Wang et al., CITATION), it was reasonable to assume that tracking the localization of HIT4 in situ under high temperature might help elucidate the role of HIT4 in chromocenter organization and TGS regulation. In this regard, we generated a stable line of transgenic Arabidopsis by transforming the HIT4 promoter‐driven HIT4‐GFP fusion construct into the hit4‐1 background. The transgenic plants were first tested for their ability to complement the heat‐intolerant phenotype of hit4‐1. As shown in Fig. 3(a), the transgenic hit4‐1 plants that expressed HIT4‐GFP tolerated both sustained high temperature and sudden heat‐shock treatments, in a similar manner to WT seedlings, which indicated that the GFP‐tagged HIT4 was molecularly functional. Ten‐day‐old transgenic seedlings were subjected to heat treatment at 37°C and 44°C for various durations and the fluorescent signals in root cell nuclei were observed under a fluorescent microscope. Initially, GFP signals that were localized at chromocenters disappeared and aggregated into a single subnuclear domain in each nucleus within 1 h at 37°C or 5 min at 44°C (Fig. 3b). By contrast, chromocenters themselves remained conspicuous without noticeable morphological change at these time points, and clear decompaction of chromocenters was seen only after the seedlings had been heat stressed for 30 h at 37°C or for 30 min at 44°C (Figs 2, 4b). On the basis of its number and morphology, the subnuclear compartment to which HIT4‐GFP was localized upon heat treatment corresponded most probably to the nucleolus. This hypothesis was tested by examining Arabidopsis protoplasts that co‐expressed HIT4‐GFP and a nucleolar marker protein FIB1 (Reichow et al., CITATION) tagged with mCherry. The GFP signal co‐localized with mCherry after the protoplasts had been incubated for 1 h at 37°C, which indicated that HIT4 indeed relocated to the nucleolus in response to heat treatment (Fig. 3c).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the nature of the heat‐induced relocation of HIT4 further, HIT4‐GFP transgenic seedlings that had been subjected to heat stress at 37°C for 1 h or 44°C for 5 min were transferred to 23°C and their fluorescent signals were monitored continuously. The nucleolus‐localized GFP signals were observed to return to chromocenters after recovery for 1 d at 23°C (Fig. 3b). Collectively, these results suggested that the heat‐induced HIT4‐mediated decondensation of chromocenters involves both temporal and spatial factors, and demonstrated that relocation of HIT4 in response to high temperature is a reversible process.  Given that hit4‐1 is a missense mutation in which the codon for Ser 227 is changed to Tyr (Wang et al., CITATION), it was envisaged that the hit4‐1 phenotypes result from the altered function of the HIT4 protein. The relocation of HIT4 from chromocenters to the nucleolus in response to heat stress and the observation that the relocation occurred before heat‐induced decompaction of chromocenters prompted us to speculate that the function of HIT4 is to maintain the condensed structure of chromocenters and that the hit4‐1 mutant protein had an impaired ability to leave chromocenters under high temperature, which thus restricted heat‐triggered decondensation of chromocenters. To examine this hypothesis, we generated a stable line of transgenic Arabidopsis by transforming the hit4‐1‐GFP fusion construct driven by the HIT4 promoter into hit4‐1 plants. The resultant transgenic plants were tested first for their heat sensitivity. The plants were intolerant to both sustained heat stress at 37°C for 4 d and sudden heat shock at 44°C for 30 min, as is the case for hit4‐1 plants as expected (Figs 4a, S1). Green fluorescence in root cell nuclei of 10‐d‐old hit4‐1‐GFP transgenic hit4‐1 plants was monitored under a fluorescent microscope. Initially, green fluorescence was observed in the chromocenters (Fig. 4b). After heat stress for 1 h at 37°C or 5 min at 44°C, the chromocenter‐localized green fluorescence was replaced by nucleolus‐localized green fluorescence (Fig. 4b). These changes in the localization of the hit4‐1‐GFP signals persisted after the seedlings were heat stressed for 30 h at 37°C or for 30 min at 44°C. At these time points, the chromocenters in the transgenic plants remained condensed and were discernible as DAPI‐stained spots, whereas those in the WT were dispersed (Fig. 4b). Therefore, the missense hit4‐1 mutation did not affect the ability of its protein product to relocate in response to heat stress, and correct relocalization of HIT4 alone was insufficient to promote heat‐induced decondensation of chromocenters.  The MOM1 protein contains nuclear localization signal (NLS) sequences. Immunodetection of HA‐epitope‐tagged MOM1 expressed transiently in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY‐2 cells demonstrated that MOM1 is localized to the nucleus (Amedeo et al., CITATION). However, in contrast to Arabidopsis, which has a small genome (130 Mbp, n = 5), N. tabacum is an amphiploid species with a very large genome (n = 24, 1C = 5.2 pg; Leitch et al., CITATION). Consequently, the majority of the tobacco nucleus consists of heterochromatin, which does not display chromocenters (Libault et al., CITATION). To investigate the subnuclear localization of MOM1 in Arabidopsis in detail, and to clarify the relationship between HIT4 and MOM1 in the control of TGS and heat‐induced reorganization of chromocenters, we stably introduced a MOM1‐GFP fusion construct driven by the 35S promoter into wild‐type Arabidopsis plants. These transgenic plants showed fluorescent foci in their nuclei, which were identified easily by the observation of root cells under a fluorescent microscope. When counterstained with DAPI, clear colocalization of MOM1 foci with chromocenters was indicated by the perfect overlay of the GFP and DAPI fluorescent signals (Fig. 5a). Continuous monitoring revealed that MOM1 remained localized at chromocenters after the transgenic seedlings had been heat stressed for 1 h at 37°C or 5 min at 44°C (Fig. 5a), under which conditions HIT4 had relocated to the nucleolus. After heat stress for 30 h at 37°C or for 30 min at 44°C, during which heat‐induced decondensation of chromocenters occurred, the MOM1‐GFP fluorescent foci dispersed in a pattern identical to that of the DAPI‐stained foci. To corroborate further that the subnuclear localization of HIT4 and MOM1 in response to high temperature differed, protoplasts derived from Arabidopsis cell suspensions were transformed for transient co‐expression of mCherry‐HIT4 with MOM1‐GFP. Before heat treatment, fluorescently tagged HIT4 and MOM1 were colocalized to chromocenters. After heat stress for 1 h at 37°C or 5 min at 44°C, mCherry fluorescence dissipated from chromocenters and appeared in the nucleolus, whereas GFP fluorescence remained at the chromocenters (Fig. 5b). Thus, HIT4 and MOM1 indeed become separated spatially under heat stress.  [[FIGURE]] We then compared the hit4‐1 and mom1 single mutants and hit4‐1/mom1 double mutant at the physiological level by testing their survivability after heat stress treatment. To induce prolonged high temperature stress, 10‐d‐old seedlings grown in medium were transferred to an incubator at 37°C. After treatment for 4 d, mom1 seedlings remained green in color, similar to WT seedlings, whereas hit4‐1 and hit4‐1/mom1 seedlings were totally bleached (Figs 6, S1). For sudden heat‐shock treatment, 10‐d‐old seedlings grown in medium were exposed to 44°C for 30 min, and then returned to 23°C for further observation. After recovery for 7 d at 23°C, the wild‐type and mom1 seedlings remained alive and exhibited noticeable growth as judged by the emergence and expansion of true leaves, whereas the leaves of hit4‐1 and hit4‐1/mom1 seedlings were bleached completely and no signs of growth were observed (Fig. 6). These results demonstrated that the mutant of HIT4 and MOM1 showed differential capabilities for thermotolerance, and implied that the physiological effects that resulted from restriction of the heat‐triggerred reactivation of TGS in hit4‐1 are not compensated by mom1‐promoted release from TGS.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild‐type Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh seeds in the Columbia‐0 background were purchased from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX, USA). The mutant lines of hit4‐1 and mom1 (SAIL_610_G01) that were used in the present study were as described previously (Wang et al., CITATION). The hit4‐1/mom1 double mutant was generated by crossing hit4‐1 plants to mom1. Homozygous hit4‐1/mom1 progeny were determined by PCR‐based genotyping. The primers hit4‐1‐NdeI‐F and hit4‐1‐NdeI‐R were used to genotype hit4‐1 (Supporting Information Table S1). These primers amplified a 151‐bp fragment. The amplicon derived from hit4‐1 but not that from the wild‐type, was digested by the restriction endonuclease NdeI to generate 128‐ and 23‐bp fragments. In addition, three primers were used in combination to genotype mom1. Whereas MOM1‐503F and MOM1‐1197R amplified a 695‐bp wild‐type sequence, MOM1‐503F and LB3 amplified a 499‐bp sequence from the junction of the T‐DNA insert and plant DNA in the mutant (Table S1). Detailed procedures for medium preparation, seed sterilization, stratification, and germination were as described by Lee et al. (CITATION) and Wang et al. (CITATION). Plants grown in medium were cultured in a growth chamber set at 23°C with continuous light. Detailed procedures for heat‐stress treatment of the medium‐grown plants were as described by Wu et al. (CITATION). For the purposes of crossing mutant lines, Agrobacterium‐mediated genetic transformation, and seed propagation, plants were grown in soil at 23°C under long‐day conditions with a 16 h : 8 h, light : dark photoperiod. The light intensity for both medium‐ and soil‐grown plants was 100 μmol m−2 s−1.  To analyze heat‐triggered release from TGS, 14‐d‐old plants grown in medium were transferred to a growth chamber set at 37°C and incubated for 0, 3, 6, 12, 24 or 36 h. At the end of the exposure to heat, c. 50 seedlings were collected for total RNA extraction. The total RNA was prepared using the GeneMark Plant Total RNA Miniprep Purification Kit (Hopegen Biotechnology, Taichung, Taiwan) in accordance with the manufacturer's protocol.  Quantitative real‐time PCR (qPCR) was performed using the KAPA SYBR FAST One‐Step qRT‐PCR Kit (KAPA Biosystems Inc., Woburn, MA, USA) in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions under the following conditions: 42°C for 5 min (cDNA synthesis), 95°C for 5 min (to inactivate reverse transcription), and 40 cycles of 95°C for 3 s (for denaturation) and 60°C for 1 min (for annealing and extension). The regions amplified and the primers used were as follows: 180‐bp repeat with the primers 180 bp(all)‐F and 180 bp(all)‐R; the TRANSCRIPIONALLY SILENT INFORMATION (TSI) repeat with the primers TSI‐qF and TSI‐qR; ONSEN with the primers ONSEN‐qF and ONSEN‐qR; MULE‐F19G14 with the primers MULE‐qF and MULE‐qR (Table S1). UBC28 was also amplified with the primers UBC28‐qF and UBC28‐qR as an internal control for quantitative normalization (Table S1). All qPCR reactions were performed in triplet replicates of independent biological experiments and analyzed with the BioRad iCycler IQ5 Real‐Time PCR Detection System (Life Science Research, Hercules, CA, USA).  To analyze the localization of HIT4 and hit4‐1, the promoter region of HIT4 was amplified by PCR from Col‐0 wild‐type genomic DNA with the primers pHIT4‐EcoRI‐F and pHIT4‐PstI‐R (Table S1). The resultant amplicon (942 bp) was digested with EcoRI and PstI and cloned into the pBlueScript II (pBSII) vector (Agilent Technologies Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA). The HIT4 promoter fragment in pBSII was then released by digestion with EcoRI and SacI and subcloned into the plant transformation vector pCAMBIA1300 (CAMBIA, Canberra, ACT, Australia) to generate pCAMBIA1300‐pHIT4. The HIT4 and hit4‐1 cDNA fragments were amplified using the primers HIT4‐KpnI‐F and HIT4‐BamHI‐R (Table S1) and RNA extracted from wild‐type and hit4‐1 plants, respectively. The amplified fragments were digested with KpnI and BamHI and cloned into pCHF3‐35S‐GFP (Jarvis et al., CITATION) to generate pCHF3‐35S‐HIT4‐GFP and pCHF3‐35S‐hit4‐1‐GFP. The coding regions of HIT4‐GFP and hit4‐1‐GFP fusions constructs were excised by digestion with SacI and HindIII, and then subcloned into pCAMBIA1300‐pHIT4 to generate pCAMBIA1300‐pHIT4‐HIT4‐GFP and pCAMBIA1300‐pHIT4‐hit4‐1‐GFP, respectively.  To analyze the localization of MOM1, the coding region of MOM1 was amplified with the primers MOM1‐KpnI‐F and MOM1‐BamHI‐R (Table S1). The resultant amplicon was cloned first into the yTA vector (Yeastern Biotech, Taipei, Taiwan), and then subcloned into pCHF3‐35S‐GFP using the KpnI and BamHI restriction sites to generate pCHF3‐35S‐MOM1‐GFP.  The vectors that contained the desired fusion constructs were introduced individually into wild‐type and mutant (hit4‐1) Arabidopsis plants by the Agrobacterium‐mediated floral dipping method (Clough & Bent, CITATION). Positive transformants were selected on half‐strength Murashige–Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige & Skoog, CITATION) that contained 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin or hygromycin. The antibiotic‐resistant T1 seedlings were transferred to soil and grown to maturity. Homozygous T2 plants were selected by growth of their T3 generations on medium that contained kanamycin. T3 seeds derived from homozygous T2 plants were used for subsequent analysis of protein localization.  For the nucleolus localization assay, the cDNA fragment for Arabidopsis FIBRILLARIN1 (FIB1, At5g52470) was amplified from RNA extracted from wild‐type plants by PCR using the primers FIB1‐BamHI‐F and FIB1‐EcoRI‐R (Table S1). The amplified fragment was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and cloned into the vector pLOLA‐35S‐mCherry (Wang et al., CITATION) to generate pLOLA‐35S‐mCherry‐FIB1.  For transient co‐expression of fluorescent‐protein‐tagged HIT4 and MOM1 to analyze their relocation in response to exposure to high temperature, HIT4 cDNA was amplified by PCR using RNA extracted from wild‐type plants as the template and the primers HIT4‐BamHI‐F and HIT4‐PstI‐R (Table S1). The resultant amplicon was digested with BamHI and PstI and cloned into the vector pLOLA‐35S‐mCherry to generate pLOLA‐35S‐mCherry‐HIT4. To increase the efficiency of protoplast transformation, the 35S‐GFP coding region was excised from the relatively large binary vector pCHF3‐35S‐GFP by digestion with EcoRI and HindIII and subcloned into pUC18 to generate the pUC18‐35S‐GFP construct. In addition, the MOM1 cDNA was amplified by PCR with the primers MOM1‐KpnI‐F and MOM1‐BamHI‐R (Table S1), digested with KpnI/BamHI, and then inserted into pUC18‐35S‐GFP to generate pUC18‐35s‐MOM1‐GFP.  Fully expanded rosette leaves of 4‐wk‐old Arabidopsis plants were used to prepare protoplasts. The lower epidermis of the leaves was peeled away and floated on an enzyme solution that contained 0.4 M mannitol, 20 mM KCl, 10 mM CaCl2, 1% (w/v) cellulase R10, 0.25% (w/v) macerozyme R10, 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA), 20 mM 2‐(N‐morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES), and 5 mM β‐mercaptoethanol, pH 5.7 for 45 min with gentle shaking at 40 rpm. The released protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 100 g for 1 min in a 50 ml centrifuge tube. The pelleted protoplasts were resuspended in 10 ml W5 solution (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM glucose, 2 mM MES, pH 5.7) and then centrifuged again. The collected protoplasts were resuspended in 10 ml of W5 solution and incubated on ice for 30 min, after which the protoplasts were centrifuged and resuspended in MMg solution (0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, 4 mM MES, pH 5.7) at 2 × 105 cells ml−1. Polyethylene glycol (PEG)‐mediated transformation was performed by gently mixing 20 μl of plasmid DNA (10 μg), 220 μl of 40% PEG (in 0.2 M mannitol and 0.1 M CaCl2) and 200 μl of protoplasts (4 × 104 cells). The mixture was incubated for 10 min at 22°C, and then 1 ml of W5 solution was added to the mixture, which was centrifuged for 1 min at 100 g. The collected protoplasts were washed again with 1 ml of W5 solution, resuspended in 1 ml of W5, and incubated at 22°C for 12–16 h. Expression of the fluorescent fusion proteins was observed and photographed under an Olympus IX71 fluorescence microscope (Center Valley, PA, USA).  Ten‐day‐old seedlings that had been subjected to heat‐stressed or non‐stressed conditions were incubated in 1 μg ml−1 DAPI for 30 min at room temperature. The DAPI signals were visualized and photographed by fluorescence microscopy using an Olympus IX71 fluorescent microscope. 
