!~ABS~! The decapping enzymes DCP1 and DCP2 are components of a decapping complex that degrades mRNAs. DCP2 is the catalytic core and DCP1 is an auxiliary subunit. It has been assumed that DCP1 and DCP2 are consistently co-localized in cytoplasmic RNA granules called processing bodies (P-bodies). However, it has not been confirmed whether DCP1 and DCP2 co-localize in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we generated DCP1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and DCP2–GFP transgenic plants that complemented dcp1 and dcp2 mutants, respectively, to see whether localization of DCP2 is identical to that of DCP1. DCP2 was present throughout the cytoplasm, whereas DCP1 formed P-body-like foci. Use of DCP1–GFP/DCP2–red fluorescent protein (RFP) or DCP1–RFP/DCP2–GFP plants showed that heat treatment induced DCP2 assembly into DCP1 foci. In contrast, cold treatment did not induce DCP2 assembly, while the number of DCP1 foci increased. These changes in DCP1 and DCP2 localization during heat and cold treatments occurred without changes in DCP1 and DCP2 protein abundance. Our results show that DCP1 and DCP2 respond differently to environmental changes, indicating that P-bodies have diverse DCP1 and DCP2 proportions depending on environmental conditions. The localization changes of DCP1 and DCP2 may explain how specific mRNAs are degraded during changes in environmental conditions.
!~RES~! We generated transgenic plants that express DCP1–GFP or DCP2–GFP using the native promoter in dcp1-1 or dcp2-1 mutants. It was assumed that the expressed GFP-fused proteins were functional because the phenotypes (including vegetative growth) of these mutants were similar to that of the wild-type plant. We observed the localization of DCP1–GFP in root elongation zones using three-dimensional optical sections with confocal laser scanning microscopy. DCP1–GFP presented as foci in cytoplasm (Fig. 1A, left-hand panel). Next, we observed the localization of DCP2–GFP and found that DCP2–GFP was spread throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C, left-hand panel). Our observation rather unexpectedly revealed differences in localization between DCP1 and DCP2; we had assumed that the two proteins would accompany each other to enable proper functioning.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To observe the behavior of DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP at high temperature, we subjected transgenic plants that had been grown at 22°C to 40°C for 90 min. The number of DCP1–GFP foci increased during heat treatment in root elongation zones (Fig. 1A, center panel, B). Heat treatment also induced the accumulation of DCP2–GFP into foci (Fig. 1C, center panel) and the number of DCP2–GFP foci significantly increased in roots (P < 0.01) (Fig. 1D). We observed similar behaviors of DCP1 and DCP2 in leaf epidermal cells exposed to heat using three-dimensional optical sections (Supplementary Fig. S1). After induction of DCP1–GFP or DCP2–GFP foci formation by heat treatment, transgenic plants were returned to 22°C and kept at this temperature for 3 h. Removal from heat resulted in a reduction in the number of DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP foci (Fig. 1A, C, right-hand panels). The number of DCP1–GFP foci decreased to almost the same level as that before heat exposure (Fig. 1B). DCP2–GFP foci disassembled and spread throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C, right-hand panel, D). We generated a DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP transgenic plant in which DCP1 and DCP2 were tagged with different colored fluorescent proteins to visualize DCP1 and DCP2 simultaneously. We chose root cells to observe co-localization since they are not affected as much by autofluorescence compared with cells from aerial plant parts. To obtain strong and well-focused fluorescent signals, we concentrated on a single plane of outer cortical regions of root epidermal cells. Heat treatment increased the number of DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP foci at cortical regions, as determined in three-dimensional optical sections (Supplementary Fig. S2A–D). In DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP plants, only a fraction of DCP2–RFP signals was co-localized with DCP1–GFP at 22°C (Fig. 2A, arrowheads), and most DCP2–RFP signals diffused throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 2A). Statistical analysis revealed that only 17.9% of DCP1–GFP foci contained DCP2–RFP signals at 22°C while >80% of DCP1–GFP foci were free of DCP2 signal (Fig. 2A, left- and right-hand panels, C). Heat treatment at 40°C for 90 min induced DCP2–RFP foci formation and altered their sizes so they were similar to DCP1–GFP foci (Fig. 2B). The percentage of DCP2–RFP foci that were co-localized with DCP1–GFP foci was 68.9% after exposure to heat (Fig. 2C). Additionally, we found that 13.2% of DCP2–RFP foci were independent of DCP1–GFP at 40°C (Fig. 2C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To eliminate the possibility that the observed differences were caused by the differences in the properties of fluorescent proteins, we switched the fluorescent protein fused to DCP1 or DCP2, and observed DCP1 and DCP2 behavior in transgenic plants (DCP1–RFP/DCP2–GFP). Approximately 85% of DCP1–RFP foci were free of DCP2–GFP (Supplementary Fig. S3A, C); this was similar to what was observed in DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP plants (Fig. 2A, C). The percentage of DCP1–RFP and DCP2–GFP foci that co-localized increased with heat treatment from 14.4% at 22°C to 53.1% at 40°C (Supplementary Fig. S3B, C). These results revealed that heat treatment increased the percentage of co-localization. We hypothesized that DCP2 assembles with DCP1 foci during heat treatment. To test the hypothesis that DCP2 assembles with pre-formed DCP1 foci during heat treatment, we performed a time-lapse analysis of DCP1 and DCP2 localization during heat treatment. Most DCP2 signals were spread throughout the cytoplasm before heat treatment (Fig. 2D, 0 min). After exposure to heat for 20 min, diffuse signals of DCP2 started to accumulate near DCP1–GFP foci. The greatest accumulation occurred during heat exposure for 40 min (Fig. 2D, 40 min). DCP1–GFP foci moved throughout the cytoplasm before heat exposure, but gradually became immobile. Some DCP1–GFP foci appeared to fuse with each other (Supplementary Video S1). We accordingly found that the size of DCP1–GFP foci increased during heat treatment (Supplementary Fig. S2E). These results supported the hypothesis that heat treatment induces DCP2 assembly into pre-existing DCP1–GFP foci. Cycloheximide (CHX) treatment leads to a decrease in the number of P-bodies in eukaryotes because CHX blocks mRNA release from polysomal complexes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). We examined whether CHX treatment inhibits DCP1 and DCP2 foci accumulation before and after heat treatment. As in previous reports (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), CHX treatment significantly reduced the number of DCP1–GFP foci at 22°C (P < 0.01) (Fig. 3A, C). Furthermore, plants treated with CHX at 40°C had significantly fewer DCP1–GFP foci compared with untreated plants both at 22°C and at 40°C (P < 0.01) (Fig. 3A–C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] There were relatively few DCP2–GFP foci at 22°C, as stated above. CHX treatment had no effect at this temperature (Fig. 3D, F). However, CHX treatment significantly inhibited heat-induced DCP2–GFP foci accumulation at 40°C (Fig. 3E, F). These results suggest that heat-induced DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP foci are RNA granules encompassing certain mRNAs; they are similar to P-bodies reported in yeast and animals. It was reported that cold treatment triggers some responses such as change of gene expression (CITATION), but no one has investigated P-body response to cold in plants. Therefore, we exposed DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP plants to 4°C and observed the behaviors of DCP1 and DCP2 under cold stress. First, we examined DCP1–GFP in root elongation zones using three-dimensional optical sections. The number of DCP1–GFP foci significantly increased during cold treatment (P < 0.01; Fig. 4A, center panel, B). The increase in the number of DCP1–GFP foci during cold treatment was also observed in leaf epidermal cells (Supplementary Fig. S4A, B). After induction of DCP1–GFP foci formation by cold treatment, DCP1–GFP plants were returned to 22°C and kept at this temperature for 5 h. Removal from the cold induced a significant decrease in the number of DCP1–GFP foci (P < 0.01; Fig. 4A, right-hand panel, B) to almost the same level as that before cold treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In contrast, cold treatment did not induce accumulation of DCP2–GFP into foci. Instead, exposure to cold resulted in a slight decrease in the number of DCP2–GFP foci in roots (Fig. 4C, center panel, D) and in leaves according to three-dimensional optimal sections (Supplementary Fig. S4C, D), although this decrease was not significant. Returning the cold-treated plants to 22°C did not result in any noticeable changes (Fig. 4C, right-hand panel, D). We also confirmed that the number of DCP1–GFP foci significantly increased in cortical regions of root epidermal cells following cold treatment (P < 0.001; Supplementary Fig. S5A, B), while the number of DCP2–GFP foci significantly decreased (P < 0.05; Supplementary Fig. S5C, D). When we subjected DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP plants to cold treatment, we observed that a few DCP2–RFP signals were co-localized with DCP1–GFP at 22°C in cortical regions of root epidermal cells (Fig. 5A, arrowhead). We found that 25.1% of foci included both DCP1–GFP and DCP2–RFP signals (Fig. 5C). Cold treatment produced more diffuse DCP2–RFP signals (Fig. 5B). It also lowered the percentage of DCP1–GFP and DCP2–RFP signal co-localization to only 10.9 % (Fig. 5C); this decrease resulted from the increase in the number of DCP1–GFP foci and the decrease in the number of DCP2–RFP foci. An increase in the number of DCP1 foci during cold treatment was also observed in DCP1–RFP/DCP2–GFP plants (Supplementary Fig. S6).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] There are two possible explanations for the observed changes in the number or size of foci during exposure to high or low temperatures. One is that DCP1/DCP2 proteins underwent altered localization, which led to assembly/disassembly of foci in the cytoplasm. The other is that de novo DCP1/DCP2 synthesis or degradation occurred. To assess which of these possibilities was responsible for our observations, we performed Western blot analyses to determine in planta DCP1 and DCP2 protein levels before and after heat or cold treatments. We detected two different DCP1 bands (Fig. 6A); one is the phosphorylated form of the protein and the other is the non-phosphorylated form. Whether the proteins were phosphorylated was confirmed using an established phosphatase treatment (CITATION) (data not shown). Similar double bands were observed in previous studies of eukaryotes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) and plants (CITATION). The total DCP1 protein level was not altered by temperature changes from 22 to 40°C and back to 22°C (Fig. 6A). Similarly, DCP2 was detected at almost the same level at 22, 40 or at 22°C following exposure to 40°C (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] When we subjected plants to 4°C, the total abundance of DCP1 and DCP2 proteins did not change during temperature changes from 22 to 4°C and back to 22°C (Fig. 6C, D). These results supported the notion that cytoplasmic localization changes of DCP1 and DCP2 proteins are responsible for DCP1 and DCP2 foci formation or dissociation during changes in environmental conditions.
!~MM~! We used heterozygotes and homozygotes of A. thaliana mutant lines, dcp1-1 (GABI_844B03) and dcp2-1 (SALK_000519). Plants were grown in pots with soil at 22°C under continuous light. Plants for microscopic or protein analyses were grown on agar-solidified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at 22°C under continuous light as described (CITATION). We constructed pGWB-DCP1-GFP and pGWB-DCP2-GFP vectors to generate DCP1–GFP- and DCP2–GFP-expressing transgenic plants, respectively, as described (CITATION). For pGWB-DCP1-tagRFP, we amplified a DNA fragment containing the DCP1 promoter region (2,063 bp) and the open reading frame (ORF) from A. thaliana Col-0 genomic DNA using the caccDCP1 Left border and the caccDCP1 Right border primers (Supplementary Table S1). For pGWB-DCP2-tagRFP, a DNA fragment containing the DCP2 promoter region (2,555 bp) and the DCP2 ORF from Col-0 genomic DNA were amplified using the caccDCP2 Left border and the caccDCP2 Right border primers (Supplementary Table S1). We introduced these PCR products into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). The DNA fragments were then transferred into pGWB459 and pGWB559 by in vitro recombination (CITATION) using LR Clonase (Invitrogen) to construct pGWB-DCP1-tagRFP and pGWB-DCP2-tagRFP. We introduced pGWB-DCP1-tagRFP and pGWB-DCP2-tagRFP into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and then transformed them into dcp1-1 heterozygotes and DCP1–GFP plants, respectively, by the floral dip method as previously described (CITATION). Harvested T1 and T2 seeds were selected on half-strength MS medium supplemented with kanamycin (20 µg ml–1) or hygromycin B (50 µg ml–1). The selected plants were then subjected to genotyping using the dcp1-1 LP and DCP1_3′UTR-Rv primers (Supplementary Table S1) for dcp1-1 and observed by microscopic analysis. The selected plants were named DCP1–RFP and DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP. We then crossed DCP1–RFP and DCP2–GFP plants to create DCP1–RFP/DCP2–GFP plants. Harvested T2 plants were selected by microscopic analysis. Selected DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP and DCP1–RFP/DCP2–GFP plants were used to count cytoplasmic foci. The DCP1–RFP and DCP2–RFP constructs phenotypically rescued the dcp1-1 and dcp2-1 homozygote lethal phenotype, respectively. These complemented plants could maintain normal vegetative growth. We observed 10-day-old plants using three-dimensional optical section images from a confocal fluorescence microscope (LSM510META, ZEISS) (Figs. 1, 4; Supplementary Figs. S1, Supplementary Data). Cortical regions of root epidermal cells were observed with a confocal fluorescence microscope (Ti-E, Nikon) equipped with a confocal unit (C2, Nikon) with a perfect focus system (Optical Insight) (Figs. 2, 3, 5; Supplementary Figs. S2, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data). Images were taken with NIS-elements software (Nikon) and analyzed with ImageJ (NIH; http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). We merged three-dimensional optical section images for digital counting. Foci in the images were counted using Analyze Particles or the KbiCountPeaks plugin from the KBI plugins package (http://hasezawa.ib.k.u-tokyo.ac.jp/zp/Kbi/ImageJKbiPlugins). We measured image areas and calculated the number of foci per unit area on each image. For the percentage of co-localization, two separate images were merged using Image Calculator. We confirmed that there was no difference in responses between the aerial and underground plant parts in high and low temperature conditions. We chose to observe root cells more closely as they are not affected by autofluorescence as much as the cells from aerial parts. It would be difficult to distinguish autofluorescence from fluorescence in small foci. Therefore, we counted foci over 2 µm2 to distinguish the foci from autofluorescence in leaves. Eight independent plants were observed in each condition in Fig. 1 (n = 8). Twelve (22°C) or 23 (40°C) independent plants were observed in Fig. 2A–C. Nineteen independent DCP1–GFP plants were observed in each condition in Fig. 3 (n = 19). Nine independent DCP2–GFP plants were observed in each condition in Fig. 3 (n = 9). Seven independent plants were observed in each condition in Fig. 4 (n = 7). Eighteen (22°C) or 13 (4°C) independent plants were observed in Fig. 5. We used Welch’s t-test to analyze results from experiments in which two conditions were compared. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey’s test were performed in experiments in which multiple comparisons were made. Standard errors were represented by error bars in all experiments. For heat treatment, we subjected plants on agar-solidified half-strength MS medium at 22°C to 40°C for 90 min in the dark (for three-dimensional optical sections) or under light (for cortical regions). These treatments were similar to those from previous studies (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To enable plants to recover from heat treatment, plants on agar-solidified half-strength MS medium exposed to 40°C for 2 h were maintained at 22°C for 3 h. For time-lapse analysis, DCP1–GFP/DCP2–RFP plants were mounted and observed with a confocal microscope while being subjected to 40°C for 60 min. To assess the effects of cold treatment, we exposed plants on agar-solidified half-strength MS medium to 4°C for 20 h in the dark. To observe plant responses during recovery from cold stress, plants on agar-solidified half-strength MS medium were maintained at 22°C after exposure to 4°C for 20 h. For CHX treatment, we grew seedlings in liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented or not with 300 µg ml–1 CHX for 3 h at 22°C. For heat treatment, seedlings were incubated for 2 h at 40°C after 1 h incubation at 22°C in the presence of CHX. Ten-day-old control (grown at 22°C) and treated (heat or cold stressed) DCP1–GFP and DCP2–GFP plants were frozen with liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder. We extracted total protein with extraction buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton-X100, 5% glycerol, 5 mM diuthiothreitol (DTT) and complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche)]. Extracts were centrifuged twice (20,400 × g for 5 min) and we analyzed the supernatants by SDS–PAGE. Separated proteins were transferred onto an Immobilon-P Transfer Membrane (Merck Millipore) with transfer buffer [25 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), 200 mM glycine and 15% (v/v) methanol]. After incubating the membrane in blocking buffer [1% skim milk, 1 × phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)–Tween] for 1 h, we incubated the membrane in a 1 : 1,000 dilution (in blocking buffer) of anti-GFP (Roche) overnight at 4°C. The membrane was washed with wash buffer (1 × PBS–Tween) three times and then incubated in a 1 : 5,000 dilution (in blocking buffer) of anti-mouse IgG horseradish peroxidase (HRP; GE Healthcare) for 1 h. We washed the membrane with wash buffer and then incubated it with Luminata Forte Western HRP substrate (Merck Millipore). Chemiluminescence was detected using the LAS-3000 Luminescent Image Analyzer (Fujifilm) and we quantified bands with ImageJ. Three biological replicates, in which the samples were independently collected, were separately analyzed by Western blotting. Standard errors were represented by error bars in all experiments.
