!~ABS~! In response to environmental light signals, gene expression adjustments play an important role in regulation of photomorphogenesis. LHCB2.4 is among the genes responsive to light signals, and its expression is regulated by redox-regulated members of G-group bZIP transcription factors. The biochemical interrelations of GBF1-interacting protein 1 (GIP1) and the G-group bZIP transcription factors have been investigated. GIP1, previously shown to enhance DNA-binding activities of maize GBF1 and Arabidopsis GBF3, is a plant specific protein that reduces DNA-binding activity of AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, and AtGBF1 under non-reducing conditions through direct physical interaction shown by the yeast two-hybrid and pull-down assays. Fluorescence microscopy studies using cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-fusion protein indicate that GIP1 is exclusively localized in the nucleus. Under non- reducing conditions, GIP1 exhibits predominantly high molecular weight forms, whereas it predominates in low molecular weight monomers under reducing conditions. While reduced GIP1 induced formation of DNA-protein complexes of G-group bZIPs, oxidized GIP1 decreased the amount of those complexes and instead induced its chaperone function suggesting functional switching from redox to chaperone activity. Finally analysis of transgenic plants overexpressing GIP1 revealed that GIP1 is a negative co-regulator in red and blue light mediated hypocotyl elongation. By regulating the repression effect by bZIP16 and the activation effect by bZIP68 and GBF1 on LHCB2.4 expression, GIP1 functions to promote hypocotyl elongation during the early stages of Arabidopsis seedling development.
!~RES~! Accessory proteins have been reported to modulate bZIP DNA-binding activity (Despres et al. CITATION; Virbasius et al. CITATION; Sehnke et al. CITATION). Using Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library, GIP1 was isolated in a yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins interacting with ZmGBF1. GIP1 interacts with ZmGBF1 and enhances its DNA-binding activity (Sehnke et al. CITATION). While Zea mays GBF1 transcription factor is involved in Adh regulation, Arabidopsis GBF1, in addition to bZIP16 and bZIP68, regulates LHCB2.4 expression in a redox-dependent manner during light-regulated photomorphogenesis (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). Like ZmGBF1, GIP1 enhanced DNA-binding activity of AtGBF3 (Fig. 1a; Sehnke et al. CITATION). The bZIP domain shares about 60 % identities among ZmGBF1, AtGBF3, and AtGBF1 (Fig. S1A). Whereas, ZmGBF1 shares 38.5 and 34.5 % overall identity with AtGBF3 and AtGBF1, respectively, AtGBF3 and AtGBF1 share 31 % overall homology (Fig. S1A). There is higher sequence similarity between ZmGBF1 and AtGBF3 (Fig. S1B). [[FIGURE]]  It was investigated whether DNA-binding activity of members of G-group transcription factors can be catalyzed by the nuclear protein GIP1. AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, and AtGBF1 proteins were expressed as HIS-tagged recombinant proteins as described previously (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). Moreover, GIP1 was also expressed as HIS-tagged recombinant protein in E. coli. Equal amounts of GIP1 protein were added to binding reactions containing AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, or AtGBF1 recombinant proteins and Gboxcis (5′-TCAACTGACACGTGGCATAAC-3′) as a probe. While GIP1 enhanced DNA-binding activity of AtGBF3 (Fig. 1a, lane 3; Sehnke et al. CITATION), it reduced DNA-binding activity of AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, and AtGBF1 under non-reducing conditions (Fig. 1b; lanes 4, 6, 8). By itself, GIP1 did not interact with the Gbox of the Adh promoter (Sehnke et al. CITATION) or with the Gbox DNA probe of LHCB2.4 promoter (Fig. 1b; lane 2), suggesting that GIP1 is not a DNA-binding protein. Moreover, the migration mobility of each respective protein-DNA complex was not changed or qualitatively altered (Fig. 1b) suggesting that GIP1 does not participate in the DNA-protein complex. To prove that the effect on the DNA-protein complexes of AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, and AtGBF1 was due to GIP1, either BSA or E. coli cell extract were added to the binding reactions. Both BSA and E. coli cell extract were not effective and did not change the migration mobility or pattern (Fig. 1c; lane 2 and 3). These results indicate that there is a requirement for a specific accessory factor rather than simply a proteinaceous environment for DNA binding by those G-group bZIP transcription factors. The reduction in the DNA-protein complexes upon addition of recombinant GIP1 (Fig. 1b) indicates that probably, GIP1 is responsible for such an effect. The activities of many regulatory transcription factors involve interactions with other proteins (Chi et al. CITATION). To investigate whether the effects generated by GIP1 on the DNA-protein complex affinities was due to direct physical interaction between GIP and the G-group bZIP transcription factors, yeast two-hybrid assays were performed. GIP1 was expressed as fusion to the GAL4-DNA binding domain in pLexAN vector (BD-GIP1) and bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 as fusions to the GAL4 activation domain in pGADHA vector (AD-bZIP16, AD-bZIP68, and AD-GBF1), respectively. Combinations of bait and prey were introduced into NMY51 yeast strain containing HIS and/or LacZ genes under the control of GAL4 binding sites (Fig. 2). Selective media lacking the nutritional selective markers SD-Trp, Leu or SD- Trp, Leu, HIS was used to grow the transformants. 3-AT was used to eliminate the leaky expression of the HIS gene, due to self-activating capacity of GIP1. BD-GIP1 bait was able to interact with the preys AD-bZIP16, AD-bZIP68, and AD-GBF1; however, BD-GIP1 did not interact with the empty AD vector (Fig. 2a). To further substantiate observed interaction between GIP1 and these proteins, chimeric fusion proteins of GAL4 activation domain AD-bZIP16, AD-bZIP68, or AD-GBF1 activated the transcription of LacZ reporter gene significantly in the presence of BD-GIP1. When GIP1 was expressed alone, in the presence of empty AD vector, no significant increase in the expression of LacZ reporter was observed (Fig. 2b). Taken together, these data suggest direct physical protein-protein interaction between GIP1 and these proteins in vivo in the yeast cells. [[FIGURE]]  To verify the interaction between GIP1 and the three transcription factors in vitro, His pull-down assays were performed. The purified His-tagged bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 proteins were incubated with the nuclear protein extracts (NPEs) from Arabidopsis cell culture. After incubation, His-bZIP16, −bZIP68 and −GBF1 and bound protein(s) were purified by affinity chromatography. Samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and probed with anti-GIP1 antiserum. A negative control using the Ni-NTA beads was set up to exclude the possibility that NPEs interact directly with the NTA resin. As shown in (Fig. 2c; lanes 5–7), ∼65 KDa band corresponding to the size of GIP1 protein was pulled down and captured by the purified His-tagged proteins. In the negative control, nothing was detected in the Ni-NTA pull-down products using NPEs lacking the His-tagged proteins (Fig. 2; lane 3). Therefore, the pull-down assay with the His-tag proteins confirmed the interaction between GIP1 and bZIP16, bZIP68 and GBF1 transcription factors in vitro. Analysis of secondary structure of GIP1 protein did not reveal any amino acid sequence indicating a putative nuclear localisation signal (NLS); however, it was previously shown that GIP1 is localized in the nuclei of Arabidopsis after analysis of immunoblots for cytoplasmic and nuclear A. thaliana tissue fractions (Sehnke et al. CITATION). To demonstrate the reliability of localization in the fractions prepared from Arabidopsis tissue (Sehnke et al. CITATION), nuclear protein extracts (NPE) were purified from nuclei of Arabidopsis cell cultures. In the Western blot analysis using anti GIP1 antibody (Sehnke et al. CITATION), a protein of the desired (∼65 KDa) corresponding size to GIP1 protein was detected in the nuclear fraction (Fig. 3a, right) in agreement with the localization results revealed with Arabidopsis tissue (Sehnke et al. CITATION). In total protein extract (TPE) prepared from the cell culture, a protein with a similar size to that of the nuclear fraction was detected (Fig. 3a, left). [[FIGURE]]  The subcellular localization of GIP1 protein was investigated further in transiently transfected protoplasts from Arabidopsis using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The GIP1-CFP fusion protein was exclusively localized to the nucleus (Fig. 3b). ABI5-YFP fusion protein was used as a nuclear marker (Shaikhali et al. CITATION) that exclusively co-localized with GIP1 in the nucleus (Fig. 3b). The fluorescence distribution of GIP1-CFP in the nucleus was consistent with expected nuclear localization of this protein and confirms that GIP1 is likely localized to the nucleus. GIP1 was subjected to secondary structure analysis to search for predicted motifs which could be linked to functionality. Apart from DUF1296, a conserved region of unknown function of approximately 60 amino acid residues long within a number of plant proteins, no similarity to known motifs was revealed (Fig. 4a). Since a protein’s secondary structure can be predicted from its sequence based on the intrinsic propensities of its individual amino acids to adopt helical, sheet or turn confirmation, secondary structure prediction performed using YASPIN secondary structure prediction (http://www.ibi.vu.nl/programs/yaspinwww/) resulted in the presence of several α-helices, few β-sheets and lots of coils (Fig. 4a). Moreover, analysis of GIP1 protein sequence for possible posttranslational modifications revealed several CK2 and PKC phosphorylation sites, several ASN glycosylation sites, several myrostylation sites, and one amidation site. Interestingly, GIP1 contains 4 Cys amino acid residues which might be susceptible to oxidation and formation of disulfide bond(s) which serve an important structural role in many proteins. [[FIGURE]]  A blast search in TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) for paralogs of GIP1 in A. thaliana revealed a kinase-related protein of unknown function (At3g07660). This protein shares 41 % identity with GIP1 and the highest conservation within the N-terminal region where DUF1296 region is located (Fig. 4b). Like GIP1, known motifs which could be linked to functionality were not predicted. Database searches, using NCBI Blast (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), revealed only plant-specific orthologs of GIP1. The identified orthologs are predicted and/or hypothetical proteins of unknown function that were clustered by constructing a phylogenetic tree (Fig. 4b). Interestingly, identified proteins of lower plants Chlorella variabilis (single cell green algae), Physcomitrella patens subsp. patens (moss) and Selaginella moellendorffii (spikemoss lycophyte) were clustered together quite distantly from Arabidopsis GIP1(Fig. 4b). However, orthologs of the monocots Z. mays, Sorghum bicolor, Orzya sativa subsp. japonica and indica made another cluster closer to the Arabidopsis GIP1 (Fig. 4b). Finally, the orthologs of the dicots Populus trichocarpa, Ricinus communis, and Arabidopsis lyrata made a distinct cluster with A. thaliana GIP1 (Fig. 4b). GIP1 protein contains four cysteine residues at positions 45, 234, 288, and 362 (Fig. 4b). The fact that this protein contains Cys residues initially suggested that it could be involved in the formation of intra- or intermolecular disulfide bonds. Analyzing GIP1 protein for disulfide bond predictions by DiANNA (http://clavius.bc.edu/~clotelab/DiANNA/), revealed several putative disulfide bonds between Cys45 and Cys234, Cys288 and Cys362 and Cys45 with Cys362. Denaturing polyacrylamide gels (SDS-PAGE) with GIP1 protein subjected to reducing or oxidizing conditions were performed. Under non-reducing conditions, GIP1 formed several species with apparent molecular masses corresponding to monomeric, dimeric, and oligomeric forms (Fig. 5a; lane 1). However, the predominant form observed for GIP1 in non-reducing conditions corresponded to apparent molecular masses of oligomers. The amounts of GIP1 oligomers/dimers were significantly reduced after treatment with increasing concentrations of DTT (Fig. 5a; lanes 2–4). On the other hand, treatment with increasing H2O2 concentrations did not modify the proportion observed under non-reducing conditions suggesting that GIP1 cannot be further oxidized (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  To further investigate higher-order GIP1 oligomers, BN/SDS-PAGE was applied. To allow direct comparison of two different treatments (0 and 10 mM DTT) of GIP1 protein, both were subjected to first and second dimension by applying the samples to the same gel in parallel. After BN/SDS-PAGE of recombinant GIP1 under non-reducing conditions (0 mM DTT), anti-HIS immune-blot detection indeed confirmed the separation into higher amounts of distinct complexes of various sizes (Fig. 5b, top). Based on comparison with molecular weight markers, the size of recombinant GIP1 reached from about 73 kDa, in the high percentage area of the gel, up to very high-order oligomers in the MDa range, in the low percentage area of the gel (Fig. 5b, top). The lowest apparent molecular mass likely represents the monomer of the GIP1 complex, albeit migrating at a somewhat higher molecular mass than calculated from the primary sequence with the HIS tag (∼69 KDa). Several distinct signals are detectable at much higher molecular masses, indicating existence of defined homo-oligomers of GIP1 formed probably through disulfide bonds (Fig. 5b, top). Furthermore, GIP1 treatment with DTT prior to the BN-PAGE first dimension was investigated. In the high percentage area of the gel, similar to the non-reducing conditions, the lowest apparent molecular mass likely represents the monomer of the GIP1 (Fig. 5b, bottom). Moreover, lower amounts of distinct signals were also detectable at higher molecular masses indicating the existence of GIP1 oligomers; however, these oligomers are probably formed by other means such as hydrophobic interactions (Fig. 5b, bottom). Taken together, biochemical analysis through BN-PAGE/2D thus demonstrates that GIP1 predominantly migrates in the form of assembled homo-oligomers. To determine whether the cysteines in GIP1 affect the conformation of the protein in response to redox stress in vivo, protein extractions in the absence of DTT-reducing agent were performed. As a control, DTT (50 mM) was later added to aliquots of the same extracts. Protein extracts from 7-day-old wild-type Columbia (Col-0) seedlings treated with/out H2O2 were subjected to SDS-PAGE, followed by immunoblot analysis. In the absence of H2O2 (control conditions), several bands corresponding to the monomer, dimer, and oligomer of GIP1 were detected (Fig. 5c; lane 1). One millimolar H2O2 treatment showed almost a similar pattern to that of the control conditions (Fig. 5c; lane 2). In response to 2 mM H2O2 treatment, the concentration of monomers, dimers, and oligomers were significantly reduced, suggesting formation of high molecular mass oligomers that were beyond the migration capacity of the gel (Fig. 5c; lane 3). The addition of DTT to the extracts eliminated the oligomers and reduced all the GIP1 protein to the monomeric form (Fig. 5c; lanes 4–6). The reduced monomeric form of GIP1 observed in the immunoblot analysis probably represents an in vivo conformation of the protein. However, to rule out the possibility that the high MW protein complex detected in the immunoblot analysis could be a product of nonspecific crosslinking caused by disulfide bond formation during sample preparation, plant tissue was homogenized and denatured the protein in the presence of the alkylating agents, 2 mM iodoacetamide (IOD) or N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), which block free thiol groups from forming nonspecific disulfide bonds while keeping existing disulfide bonds intact. Treatment with IOD or NEM did not affect the formation of the high MW protein complex (data not shown), confirming that high molecular mass oligomers existed in intact plant cells prior to protein extraction. The DNA-binding activity of bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 transcription factors was shown to be directly regulated by the changes in their redox state (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). Under reducing conditions, binding activity of these proteins was greatly enhanced suggesting that cysteines in the reduced state are required for more efficient binding (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). In order to identify the individual role of GIP1 in redox regulation of DNA-binding activity of these proteins, GIP1 was added to the binding reactions as untreated control, reduced, or oxidized. As shown in Fig. 6, presence of untreated GIP1 significantly reduced DNA-binding activity of bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 as determined by EMSA (Fig. 6a–c; lane 2). However, oxidized GIP1 did not influence DNA-binding activity of bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 (Fig. 6a–c; lane 4). This is feasible since untreated and H2O2-oxidized GIP1 showed almost the same quaternary structures (Fig. 5). In contrast, presence of reduced GIP1 revealed enhanced DNA-binding activity of bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 (Fig. 6a–c; lane 3). These results greatly support importance of the disulfide bonds in redox-regulated GIP1 to regulate activities of members of G-group bZIP transcription factors. [[FIGURE]]  GIP1 was previously shown to function as molecular chaperone under non-reducing conditions (Sehnke et al. CITATION). To explore the relationship between the monomeric/oligomeric status of GIP1 and its function as chaperone, reduced and oxidized GIP1 proteins were examined for general chaperone activity on denatured enzyme rhodanese. Oxidized GIP1 exhibited fourfold higher chaperone activity than that of the negative control (Fig. 7). In contrast, reduced GIP1 displayed almost similar activity measurements to those of the negative control (Fig. 7). From these results, it is concluded that the chaperone function of GIP1 is likely linked to its oligomerization status. [[FIGURE]]  We further investigated the physiological consequences of heat-shock in Arabidopsis WT and transgenic lines overexpressing GIP1 (35S:GIP1). The GIP1 overexpression lines (Lee et al. CITATION) showed no phenotypic difference from the WT under normal growing conditions (22 °C; Fig. 7b, top). WT plants and the GIP1 overexpression lines were damaged by the heat stress incurred at 45 °C for 5 days. However, when the heat-stressed plants were returned to their optimal temperature, the transgenic lines overexpressing GIP1 rapidly recovered during the post-stress recovery period (Fig. 7b, bottom). The observation is in good agreement with the results of Arabidopsis stromal HSP70 (Su and Li CITATION). In contrast, the WT plants were unable to recover from the damage caused by heat shock (Fig. 7b, bottom). These results suggest that the chaperone function of GIP1 plays a major role in the protection of Arabidopsis from heat shock during the heat stress and/or the recovery stage. Because bZIP16 and GBF1 function as negative regulators in RL and BL-mediated hypocotyl elongation, the question was whether their interacting partner GIP1 displays a similar effect. Several independent transgenic lines overexpressing GIP1 under the control of CaMV 35S promoter (Lee et al. CITATION) were used. Examination of the hypocotyl length (photomorphogenic response) revealed that the 35S:GIP1 transgenic lines displayed significant reduction of inhibition in hypocotyl elongation in response to R and BL, respectively (Fig. 8a, c). GIP1 transcript levels showed dramatically elevated levels of expression of this gene in overexpression lines relative to wild-type background (Lee et al. CITATION). These results indicate that the altered phenotypes of the overexpression lines observed were likely to be caused due to the elevated levels of GIP1. Taken together, these results indicate a biological significance and a functional involvement in planta and suggest that GIP1 is a transcriptional co-regulator of photomorphogenic growth that promotes hypocotyl elongation during early seedling development in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]  The upregulation of light-inducible genes such as CAB/LHCB2.4/RCBS is one of the important phenomena in photomorphogenic growth. Because bZIP16 is a transcriptional repressor and bZIP68 and GBF1 are transcriptional activators in light-regulated expression of LHCB2.4 (Shaikhali et al. CITATION), the role of their interacting partner, GIP1 in light-regulated gene expression of LHCB2.4 in planta was investigated. Moreover, bZIP16 regulates the growth of hypocotyls in response to RL (Hsieh et al. CITATION) and bZIP68 and GBF1 regulate the growth of hypocotyls in response to BL (Shaikhali unpublished; Mallappa et al. CITATION). For this purpose, expression of LHCB2.4 gene was investigated in 5-day-old seedlings of 35S:GIP1 transgenic seedling lines grown in constant RL or BL and compared with WT. The expression level of LHCB2.4 was significantly lower in the 35S:GIP1 transgenic lines compared with WT in response to RL (Fig. 8b), suggesting that GIP1 acts as a co-repressor of LHCB2.4. In contrast and similarly to bZIP68 and GBF1, the 35S:GIP1 transgenic lines displayed significantly higher expression level of LHCB2.4 compared to WT in response to BL (Fig. 8d), suggesting that GIP1 acts as a co-activator of LHCB2.4. Taken together, these results suggest that GIP1 acts as a transcriptional co-regulator of LHCB2.4 gene expression in RL- and BL-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and provide biological relevance for the interaction with bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 transcription factors.
!~MM~! Seeds of wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Col-0) were stratified at 4 °C for 48 h, and plants were grown on soil at 23 °C (16 h light 100 μmol quanta m−2 s−1) and 18 °C (8 h dark) at 60 % relative humidity. Plant tissue of 7-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings was ground to fine powder in liquid nitrogen. Total proteins were extracted in protein extraction buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5; 150 mM NaCl; 5 mM MgCl2; 10 % glycerol; 0.1 % TritonX-100; 1 mM PMSF and 1 % protease inhibitor cocktail; Sigma). Protein concentrations were measured using the Bio-Rad protein assay (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. SDS-loading buffer was added, and the samples were heated for 5 min at 95 °C before loading on 10 % SDS-PAGE. To isolate nuclear protein extracts (NPE), 5–7-day-old Arabidopsis cell culture line (Col-0) was used. Cells were collected by centrifugation and homogenized in double volume nuclei extraction buffer (NIB; 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5; 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM KCL, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and protease inhibitor cocktail). The cells were lysed using French press at about 5000 psi, and the pellet was collected by centrifugation at 1260 g for 15 min at 4 °C after the cell lysate was filtered through 4-layers of 100-μm filter mesh to remove cell debris. Two washing steps were performed in which the pellet was suspended in equal volume of NIB and centrifuged as above. To extract nuclear proteins, the pellet was suspended in Buffer A-1.2; pH 7.6 (1.2 M KAc, 25 mM Hepes, 10 % glycerol, and 1 mM EDTA), and the mixture was gently sonicated for about 2 min to break the nuclear membranes. Centrifugation at 13,000g for 15 min was performed to collect the supernatant which was subsequently ultra-centrifuged at 37,500g for 20 min to remove DNA. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh tube for protein estimation. GIP1 (At3g13222) and GBF3 (At2g46270) coding sequences were amplified using NcoI-GIP1-F: 5′- GCTTCCATGGGCAGCAGGATCAGCGGCGAT-3′, Acc65I-GIP1-R: 5′- GCTTGGTACCCTAGTAGTTGTTTCCCAG-3′, NcoI-GBF3-F: 5′-GCTTCCATGGGC GGAAATAGCAGCGAGGA-3′ and Acc65I-GBF3-R: 5′-GCTTGGTACC TCAGCCTGCAGCTACTG-3′ primers, respectively. The PCR products of GIP1and GBF3 were cloned into NcoI/Acc65I sites of pETHIS_1a vector (Department of Chemistry, Umeå University). The resulting plasmids were transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) star. To induce the expression of the proteins at 28 °C, IPTG was added at final concentration of 1 mM when OD600 of the cultures was about 0.8 AU and the cultures were grown further for about 16 h. Centrifugation at 6000g, 4 °C for 20 min was performed to harvest the cells which were subsequently lysed by sonication after they were incubated on ice for 30 min in the presence of 1 mg/ml lysozyme. Clear supernatant was collected by centrifugation at 12,000g, 4 °C for 40 min before expressed proteins were affinity purified on Ni2+−NTA agarose resin (Qiagen). bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 were expressed and purified as described previously (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). DNA-protein interactions and electrophoretic mobility shift assays were performed as described previously (Shaikhali et al. CITATION). Biotin detection was performed using Chemiluminescent Nucleic Acid Detection Module (Pierce) according to the supplier’s instructions. Complementary DNA (cDNA) of GIP1 gene was cloned into pLexA-N vector to generate a fusion protein with LexA DNA binding domain (Bait). AtbZIP16, AtbZIP68, and AtGBF1 full-length cDNAs were cloned into pGAD-HA vector to generate fusions of the prey protein with the GAL4 activation domain (prey). Bait and prey vectors were co-transformed into the NMY51, and transformants were selected on two selective media lacking tryptophan, leucine, and histidine (SD/-Trp-Leu-HIS). The competitive inhibitor, 3-aminotriazole (3AT), of the leaky expression of the HIS gene was used when needed. The yeast two-hybrid assay was performed with the DUALhybrid system (Biotech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Primer sequences used in the bait construct for GIP1 were EcoRI-GIP1-F: 5′-AAAAGAATTCATGAGCAGGATCAGCGGCG-3′ and KpnI-GIP1-R: 5′-AAAAGGTACCCTAGTAGTTGTTTCCCAGA-3′. The primers used to generate cDNAs for prey cloning are the following: BamHI-bZIP16-F 5′-AAAAGGATCCATGGCTAGCAATGAGATGG-3′ and XhoI-bZIP16-R 5′-AAAACTCGAG ACTCGTTGAGTCTTTGTATGAAT-3 for AtbZIP16, BamHI-bZIP68-F: 5′-AAAAGGATCCATGGGTAGCAGTGAGA-3′ and XhoI-bZIP68-R: 5′-AAAACTCGAGCTACGCAACATCCTGA-3′ for AtbZIP68 and BamHI-GBF1-F: 5′-AAAAGGATCCATGGGAACGAGCGAAGAC-3′ and XhoI-GBF1-R: 5′-AAAACTCGAGTTAATTTGTTCCTTCACC-3′ for AtGBF1. For β-galactosidase liquid assay, fresh overnight cultures of NMY51 harboring the desired constructs were diluted in YPDA to OD600∼0.1 before cells were grown further for 3–5 h (log phase ∼0.5–0.8). Before cells were harvested, the exact OD600 was recorded, individual cultures were divided into three tubes, and cells were collected by centrifugation. Cells were washed with 1.5 ml Z buffer; pH 7.0 (60 mM Na2HPO4, 40 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM KCl, and 1 mM MgSO4). Subsequently, cells were suspended in 0.3 ml Z buffer, and 100 μl aliquots were removed and transferred into fresh tubes. After three freezing and de-freezing series, 0.7 ml of Z buffer containing 0.27 % 2-mercaptoethanol were added. Time was recorded before addition of 160 μl of 4 mg/ml o-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside (ONPG; Duchefa). Reactions and blank were incubated at 30 °C and 0.4 ml of 1 M Na2CO3 was added when a yellow color was developed. After centrifugation for 10 min, the supernatant was transferred into fresh cuvettes and A420 was measured. β-galactosidase units were calculated according to the following equation: β-galactosidase unit = 1000 × OD420/t × v × OD600 where (t) is the elapsed time of incubation and (v) is the volume of 0.1 ml multiplied by concentration factor. Using His-tagged bZIP16, bZIP68, and GBF1 proteins and NPEs from Arabidopsis cell culture, pull-down assays were performed with PierceTM Pull-Down PolyHis Protein:Protein Interaction Kit (Thermo Scientific) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Full-length coding sequence of GIP1 lacking the stop codon was amplified by PCR. The amplified PCR product was cloned into BamHI/KpnI and fused to the N terminus of CFP in the 35S-CFP vector to generate the construct GIP1-CFP. GIP1-CFP and ABI5-YFP were transfected and co-expressed transiently in protoplasts and incubated for 16 h in the dark. SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica) was used to visualize the fluorescence. All micrographs were taken with ×63 water immersion objective with a numerical aperture of 0.75. Images were taken at 433 and 514 nm specific for CFP and YFP, respectively. BN-PAGE was used as described in Eubel et al. (CITATION) with some modifications. Recombinant GIP1 protein with or without DTT was incubated in blue native solubilization buffer (10 % glycerol, 4 % digitonin, 1 % β-dodecylmaltoside, 150 mM KAc and 30 mM Hepes, pH 7.4) for 10 min on ice before it was mixed with 5× native sample buffer (62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 40 % glycerol and 0.01 % Bromophenol Blue; BioRad). The protein samples were loaded on 4–15 % Mini-PROTEAN® TGX™ Precast Gel (BioRad) and running was performed using 1× Tris/glycine buffer. For two-dimensional (2D) native SDS-PAGE, single-lane first-dimension (BN-PAGE) strips were excised from native gels, followed by incubation in reducing 1× running buffer (25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, 0.1 % SDS) supplemented with 50 mM DTT for 30 min. Equilibrated gel strips were applied to a classical SDS-PAGE gels and running was performed using 1× running buffer to separate the complexes (oligomers) according to their molecular weight. The gel was blotted on PVDF membrane, blocked with powder milk in 1× TBST, incubated with anti-HIS antibody and detected with ECL plus Western blotting detection system (GE healthcare) according to the supplier’s protocol. In order to prepare denatured rhodanese, lyophilized rhodanese was solubilized to 25–40 μM in 6 M guanidine-HCl, 10 mM Tris; pH 7.4. To initiate folding, diluting denatured rhodanese to a final concentration of 100 nM in buffer B (25 mM Tris; pH 7.4, 20 mM Na2SO3, 12 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM KCl) supplemented with/without GIP1 as indicated in the legend to Fig. 7. The reactions were completed after 60 min incubation at 25 °C and then quenched by addition of 30 mM EDTA. Finally, rhodanese enzyme activity was determined as described previously (Tandon and Horowitz CITATION). For hypocotyl measurement and LHCB2.4 gene expression, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on Murashige-Skoog plates without sucrose. After cold stratification for 24 h at 4 °C in darkness, the plates were placed in 150 μmol m−2 s−1 constant white light for 12 h to induce germination, and then dark-adapted for 24 h prior to 5-days growth in either 5 μE continuous red light or 20 μE continuous blue light. Hypocotyl length was measured by use of the software ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). The means and standard deviations were calculated from 60 to 80 seedlings. Total RNA isolation, cDNA synthesis, and quantitative PCR were as described previously (Shaikhali et al. CITATION).
