!~ABS~! From individual localization and large‐scale proteomic studies, we know that stroma‐exposed thylakoid membranes harbor part of the machinery performing the light‐dependent photosynthetic reactions. The minor components of the stroma thylakoid proteome, regulating and maintaining the photosynthetic machinery, are in the process of being unraveled. In this study, we developed in‐solution and in‐gel proteolytic digestion methods, and used them to identify minor membrane proteins, e.g. transporters, in stroma thylakoids prepared from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh Columbia‐0 leaves. In‐solution digestion with chymotrypsin yielded the largest number of peptides, but in combination with methanol extraction resulted in identification of the largest number of membrane proteins. Although less efficient in extracting peptides, in‐gel digestion with trypsin and chymotrypsin led to identification of additional proteins. We identified a total of 58 proteins including 44 membrane proteins. Almost half are known thylakoid proteins with roles in photosynthetic light reactions, proteolysis and import. The other half, including many transporters, are not known as chloroplast proteins, because they have been either curated (manually assigned) to other cellular compartments or not curated at all at the plastid protein databases. Transporters include ATP‐binding cassette (ABC) proteins, transporters for K+ and other cations. Other proteins either have a role in processes probably linked to photosynthesis, namely translation, metabolism, stress and signaling or are contaminants. Our results indicate that all these proteins are present in stroma thylakoids; however, individual studies are required to validate their location and putative roles. This study also provides strategies complementary to traditional methods for identification of membrane proteins from other cellular compartments. 
!~RES~! To prepare stroma thylakoids, we first isolated thylakoid membranes from Arabidopsis leaves, purified them on sucrose gradient and then solubilized them with digitonin followed by centrifugation (Fig. 1). The Chl a/b ratios differed considerably between the resulting grana and stroma thylakoid fractions (2.3–2.4 and 4.1–6.4, respectively), consistent with a different composition for the light‐harvesting complex in these regions (Faludi‐Daniel et al. CITATION). The electrophoretic pattern of stroma thylakoids was clearly distinct from that of the grana (Fig. 2A), in‐line with previous reports (Danielsson et al. CITATION, Kirchhoff et al. CITATION). The purity of stroma thylakoid preparations was evaluated in parallel with that of thylakoids and grana by western blotting using antibodies against markers from various subcellular compartments. The AtpB subunit of the ATP synthase and the PsaB subunit of PSI, both markers for the stroma thylakoids, were found highly enriched in this type of preparation (Fig. 2B). CP43 and Lhcb2 subunits of PSII, which are markers for the grana, were found only in low amounts in the stroma regions. The envelope marker protein Tic40 was not detected in any of the thylakoid subfractions. In addition, the previously characterized TAAC (Thuswaldner et al. CITATION) and the thylakoid phosphate transporter PHT4;1 (Pavon et al. CITATION) were detected in thylakoids and stroma thylakoid fraction, but not in the grana fraction and envelope. While Western blotting detected some mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COXII), the preparations were essentially free of plasma membrane H+‐ATPase and tonoplast TIP1;1 (Fig. 2B). Thus, pure stroma thylakoids have been prepared and were used as the starting material for enrichment of hydrophobic proteins and LC–MS/MS analysis (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] The extrinsic subunits of the ATP synthase (AtpA and AtpB) represent a large proportion of the stroma thylakoid proteome (Fig. 2A), making the analysis of minor proteins from this thylakoid region challenging. To remove these subunits as well as other stromal‐exposed extrinsic proteins and loops, we shaved the stroma membranes with TRY (Turkina and Vener CITATION). SDS‐gels show that, indeed, the AtpA and AtpB subunits were largely absent from the shaved stroma thylakoids (Fig. 2A). We further washed these membranes with Na2CO3, and then digested them with CTR (Fig. 1). Following centrifugation, the proteins in the supernatant were analyzed as such (CTR fraction), whereas the proteins in the pelleted membranes were further extracted with methanol in combination with CTR (M/CTR fraction). Alternatively; they were extracted with SDS, heat gel‐embedded in polyacrylamide gels (to remove detergent) and then in‐gel digested with either TRY or CTR without electrophoretic separation (In‐gel TRY and In‐gel CTR fraction, respectively). Among the four fractions, M/CTR contained mostly peptides extracted from membrane proteins (Fig. S1).  When comparing the ability of the four methods to extract peptides for protein identification, we have found that CTR gave the largest number of peptides, 60% of them being unique for this method, and with the highest protein coverage (Table 1). The M/CTR method also allowed for extraction of a large number of (unique) peptides, but from a much larger number of proteins than CTR. The in‐gel procedures resulted in extraction of a much lower number of (unique) peptides than the in‐solution methods. This was unexpected as we assumed that SDS is more efficient than methanol to extract hydrophobic proteins, and since a previous study reporting gel‐embedment of the solubilized proteins ensured good digestion (Zhou et al. CITATION).  The mean GRAVY score of all peptides extracted by the M/CTR method was >0 and also higher than for the peptides extracted by CTR alone (Table 1), indicating a more hydrophobic proteome, in agreement with the observations from Fig. S1. The in‐gel methods extracted relatively more hydrophilic peptides. The mean GRAVY score of peptides identified by all methods (0.076) was slightly higher than that of the thylakoid integral membrane proteome (0.01) curated (manually assigned) at PPDB (Sun et al. CITATION). This indicates that the developed methods have succeeded in extracting hydrophobic peptides from the stroma thylakoids.  Because the four methods are complementary independent strategies for identification of proteins, the derived data sets were merged to ensure a significant coverage of the stroma thylakoid proteome. Altogether 58 proteins were identified by 187 matching peptides, more specifically, 18 proteins based on 3–19 peptides, 10 proteins based on 2 peptides and 30 proteins based on single unique peptides (Table S2). Forty‐four of the 58 proteins are described as membrane proteins at UniProt (Table 1). Many membrane proteins did not have TMDs, but were found associated with the membrane through various types of interactions. Therefore, the identified proteins were analyzed for TMDs using TMHMM, considered to be the most accurate software for transmembrane segment detection (Möller et al. CITATION). Among the 44 membrane proteins, 26 were putative integral membrane proteins with up to 14 TMDs (Table 1). The M/CTR method extracted peptides from 23 out of the 26 integral membrane proteins.  To confirm whether TMD peptides were extracted by any of the four methods, we have screened the 25 identified photosynthetic subunits. They were all found to be integral membrane proteins. We found TMD peptides extracted from 13 of them, and in addition six extracted from transporters (Table 2). Most TMD peptides were extracted by the in‐solution methods and only a few by the in‐gel methods. Only three of the TMD peptides from photosynthetic subunits and none from transport proteins were recognized at PPDB. These results show the ability of the methods applied to extract highly hydrophobic peptides from the stroma thylakoids.  Thirteen out of the 58 identified proteins were chloroplast encoded, and the remaining 45 were nuclear encoded. The latter ones were analyzed for the presence of a putative cTP using TargetP, and in addition using ChloroP and WoLF PSORT algorithms. The prediction results presented in Fig. 3 are based on the data for each identified protein from Table S1. From this analysis, 17 proteins were assigned a chloroplast location by all three algorithms (Fig. 3A), and including 12 photosynthetic subunits, four other known chloroplast proteins (FtsH2, SR54C, GLTB2 and Nud22) and one unknown protein (WAKLE). A further seven proteins carry a cTP predicted by either ChloroP and/or WoLF PSORT (POT3, TOP2, SYTM, EFGM, SPE2, CEL5 and GH9B17). Taken together, 24 nuclear‐encoded proteins were predicted to be chloroplastic, representing approximately 40% of the identified proteins. The remaining proteins did not harbor a cTP predictable by the used algorithms.  [[FIGURE]] We have also examined the curated location at PPDB, which is based on protein lists from the van Wijk laboratory and published proteomic studies. Twenty‐nine proteins identified in our stroma thylakoid preparations have previously been found either in the thylakoid membrane or in the stroma (Fig. 3B). When comparing our list of identified proteins with those recently reported by Tomizioli et al. (CITATION), 25 out of 58 proteins were found in common, namely photosynthetic subunits and also two other known chloroplast proteins (FtsH2 and SR54C) (Table S1). There are also 22 proteins that have no curated location at PPDB and were not found by Tomizioli et al. (CITATION), and seven proteins with curated location other than the chloroplast. These may represent either dually targeted proteins or are possible contaminants. When comparing the four methods used for extraction of peptides, an equal number of chloroplast‐predicted proteins were identified based on the CTR and M/CTR methods, but M/CTR yielded many more proteins with no curated location at PPDB (Fig. 3C). The in‐gel methods resulted in identification of similar number of known chloroplast proteins and also 2–3 proteins with no curated location.  The 58 identified proteins were classified based on the MapMan annotation (Table S1), and then grouped into eight categories (Fig. 4A). The proteins with known function or having homology to known proteins comprised 94% (48 proteins). Most of them fell into the class of photosynthetic proteins followed by transporters. The remaining proteins had putative roles in translation, metabolism, protein fate, stress response and signaling. Six percent (10 proteins) were probable contaminants based on non‐chloroplast‐related function. Below, we discuss the members of each category, and comment on the current knowledge about their biological function and location.  [[FIGURE]] Twenty‐five proteins within this category can be clustered according to the type of thylakoid photosynthetic complex (Table S1). We identified five PSII proteins, corresponding to the subunits of the core complex (PsbA, PsbB, PsbC, PsbD and PsbS) and two members of the LHCII family (CP29 and Lhcb1.2). For PSI, we identified 10 proteins corresponding to the core, including some paralogues (PsaA, PsaB, PsaC, PsaD1/2, PsaG, PsaH1/2, PsaK and PsaL) and one member of the LHCI family (Lhca4). For the ATP synthase and cyt b6f complexes, three and four subunits each were identified, respectively (AtpA, AtpB, AtpI and Cytf, Cytb6, PetD, UCRIA). All identified photosynthetic subunits were membrane proteins, eight of them being highly hydrophobic with >2 TMDs (Table S1). They were either chloroplast‐ or nuclear‐encoded harboring predictable cTP, and all have previously been identified in the thylakoid membrane and its stroma subfraction (Tomizioli et al. CITATION). In the stroma thylakoid regions, PSI and cyt b6f perform photosynthetic linear and cyclic electron transport coupled to H+ transport, whereas the ATP synthase catalyzes the synthesis of ATP. Although not active, PSII is also present in the stroma thylakoids, where it is formed and repaired following light‐induced inactivation (Komenda et al. CITATION, Nickelsen and Rengstl CITATION). This could explain the presence of those five PSII core subunits in our preparations.  Transport proteins are the second most represented category in the analyzed preparations of stroma thylakoid membranes (nine proteins). With the exception of POT3, the identified transporters were not predicted to be chloroplastic. This indicates that they have unusual transit sequences and cannot easily be predicted using common algorithms or that are probable contaminants. With the exception of NRAM3 found in the vacuole (Thomine et al. CITATION), the other identified transporters lacked a curated location at PPDB, although two have been previously localized (see below). Fig. 2B shows the subclassification of the identified transporters according to the MapMan annotation.  ATP‐binding cassette (ABC) proteins constitute a superfamily of over 120 members in Arabidopsis with diverse substrates (hormones, lipids, metals, secondary metabolites and xenobiotics) and involved in a broad range of processes (Verrier et al. CITATION). The multidrug resistance MDR13 found in this study belongs to the B subfamily and has been reported to be involved in auxin transport (Kaneda et al. CITATION). The multidrug resistance‐associated protein MRP1 (also known as glutathione S‐conjugate‐transporting ATPase 1) belonging to the C subfamily has been found in the vacuole (Jaquinod et al. CITATION) and reported to transport folate and derivatives (Raichaudhuri et al. CITATION). The pleiotropic drug resistance PDR3 belongs to the G subfamily, and has not been studied previously. Its paralogues are involved in abiotic and biotic stress response by transporting secondary metabolites (van den Brule and Smart CITATION).  The potassium ion is the most abundant cation in the plant cell, and there are 35 high‐ and low‐affinity K+ transport systems belonging to five major types in Arabidopsis (Maser et al. CITATION). Two putative K+ transport proteins were identified in this study, namely POT3 from the low affinity POT/KUP/KT family (Quintero and Blatt CITATION), and AKT6 (also known as SPIK) from the family of high affinity shaker‐type channels (Mouline et al. CITATION). As mentioned above, POT3 harbors a cTP and was previously found in the chloroplast phosphoproteome (Reiland et al. CITATION).  Among proteins annotated for metal ion transport, natural resistance‐associated macrophage protein NRAM3 plays a role together with NRAM4 in manganese ion export from the vacuole for optimal photosynthesis (Lanquar et al. CITATION). The IAA‐alanine resistance protein IAR1 is a putative metal ion transporter, suggested to play a role in auxin homeostasis (Lasswell et al. CITATION).  The putative sodium/hydrogen exchanger NHX8 belongs to the cation/proton antiporter‐1 CPA1 family, proposed to play a role in monovalent cation homeostasis and pH regulation (Rodriguez‐Rosales et al. CITATION). NHX8 was localized to the plasma membrane and found to function as a Li+/H+ antiporter with a role in Li+ detoxification and ion homeostasis in Arabidopsis (An et al. CITATION).  Cyclic nucleotide‐gated channels (CNGC) represent a family of plant nonselective cation channels mainly involved in the uptake of Na+ and K+ (Kaplan et al. CITATION). Here we identified CNG13, which was not characterized previously.  Taken together our and previous published data indicate that at least three transporters, namely PDR3, POT3 and CNGC3, are worth further experimental validation. The fact that MRP1, NHX8 and NRAM3 have been previously localized to other cellular membranes implies a possible contamination of our preparations with vacuole and plasma membrane. However, as Western blots and also mass spectrometry did not detect well‐known proteins from these compartments, there is a possibility that at least some of the three transporters are targeted to more than one compartment. This possibility is supported by other examples of dually located transporters in the chloroplast and other compartments [reviewed by Pfeil et al. (CITATION)]. Interestingly, the situation of dual targeting to stroma thylakoids and other compartments has also been discussed for some transporters found by Tomizioli et al. (CITATION). In that report, TAAC and PHT4;1 were found using in‐gel digestion and mass spectrometry in thylakoids and enriched in the stroma thylakoid subfractions. However, they have been regarded as envelope contaminants because of the presence of obvious envelope transporters in the analyzed preparations. We have not been able to extract peptides matching these two proteins with any of the four digestion methods, indicating that they may have escaped our analyses during the shaving procedure. However, we have immunodetected them with specific antibodies in our unshaved stroma thylakoid preparations. Interestingly, in addition to proteins previously found in genetic studies, namely the Cu2+‐transporting ATPase PAA2 and the K+/H+ exchanger KEA3 (Abdel‐Ghany et al. CITATION, Kunz et al. CITATION), novel transporters were found by Tomizioli et al. (CITATION), for which individual validation is required.  This group includes three proteins with a role in protein fate. SR54C is a known chloroplast protein involved in co‐translational transport of chloroplast‐encoded proteins to the thylakoid membrane (Schunemann CITATION). FtsH2 is a Zn2+‐containing metalloprotease with role in chloroplast biogenesis and repair of photosynthetic complexes (Zaltsman et al. CITATION). UPL1 is a probable E3 ubiquitin‐protein ligase, which mediates ubiquitination and subsequent proteosomal degradation of target proteins. PPDB curated UPL1 in the mitochondrion based on its presence at MitoDB. On the basis of its presence in the chloroplast phosphoproteome (Reiland et al. CITATION) and in the envelope proteome (Simm et al. CITATION), it was suggested to play an important role in chloroplast protein quality control. Interestingly other components of the ubiquitin‐proteasome system were found by Tomizioli et al. (CITATION), but were considered contaminants.  This group consists of four proteins (DHX15, RH29, EFGM and SYTM). Three of them, namely DHX15, RH29 and EFGM, have putative DEAD RNA helicase activity, which has not yet been studied. Nevertheless, paralogues of RH29 function inside the chloroplast in the biogenesis of the chloroplast ribosome (Asakura et al. CITATION, Chi et al. CITATION). DHX15 was previously found in the envelope proteome (Froehlich et al. CITATION). The threonine‐tRNA ligase (SYTM) is potentially involved in translation, and was found dually targeted to the chloroplast and mitochondrion, as many other aminoacyl‐tRNA synthetases (Duchene et al. CITATION).  The putative disease resistance DRL4 has not been previously studied. The MLO‐like protein MLO2 has been suggested to play a role during defense against bacterial attack by interacting with calmodulin (Kim et al. CITATION), and was found in the chloroplast phosphoproteome (Reiland et al. CITATION).  Only a small number of proteins involved in either primary or secondary metabolism were previously identified in the thylakoid proteome (van Wijk CITATION). It was, therefore, proposed that the thylakoid does not play a major role in such processes. In our preparations, we found three proteins (GLTB2, SPE2 and PAL1) with a metabolic role. The only known chloroplast protein among them was ferredoxin‐dependent glutamate synthase 2 (GLTB2), which is involved in primary nitrogen assimilation (Coschigano et al. CITATION). The arginine decarboxylase SPE2 is involved in the first step of polyamine biosynthesis, namely conversion of arginine to putrescine under normal and stress conditions such as salinity and cold (Urano et al. CITATION, Cuevas et al. CITATION). Putrescine and other polyamines have well‐documented positive effects on photosynthetic reactions in chloroplast thylakoids (Hamdani et al. CITATION, Ioannidis et al. CITATION). Phenylalanine ammonia‐lyase 1 (PAL1) belongs to a family of four members catalyzing the first step of the phenylpropanoid pathway in the chloroplast. This pathway yields precursors to a variety of important secondary metabolites, including flavonoids and also salicylic acid, which are important during biotic and abiotic stress (Huang et al. CITATION, Fragniere et al. CITATION, Xing et al. CITATION).  Two proteins involved in signaling were identified (WAKLE and Nud22), predicted by all three algorithms to carry a cTP. Wall‐associated receptor WAKLE is a putative membrane receptor‐like Ser/Thr kinase. It was proposed as a pathogenesis‐related gene, based on its induction by wound stress and a salicylic acid derivative (Verica et al. CITATION). Its presence in our stroma thylakoid preparations may be linked to the emerging role of chloroplasts in plant resistance to pathogens and insect herbivores (Trotta et al. CITATION). Nudix hydrolase Nud22 belongs to a family of proteins with 27 members in Arabidopsis. It has a putative function to hydrolyze nucleoside diphosphates linked to some moiety (nucleotide sugars, coenzymes or dinucleoside polyphosphates). Nudix hydrolase homologues have a predicted distribution in the cytosol, mitochondria and chloroplasts (Ogawa et al. CITATION). Although Nud22 predicted location in the chloroplast requires validation, another paralogue, Nud26, was recently localized to the chloroplast and characterized to control guanosine tetraphosphate levels in response to stress, thus impacting gene expression in chloroplasts (Ito et al. CITATION).  No well‐known abundant proteins from other cell compartments were found in our preparations of stroma thylakoids. Possible contaminants are among the 23 proteins with neither cTP nor chloroplast curation at PPDB. Ten of them have putative functions unrelated to the chloroplast: cell wall biosynthesis and degradation (GRP1, GH9B7, GH9B17 and CEL5), cell movement (SCAR2), mitosis (TOP2), DNA damage (ATM) and the synthesis of ethylene (1A14), lignin (CAMT3) and anthocyanin (LDOX). Besides this, with the exception of ATM, the identified peptides were either hydrophilic or weakly hydrophobic, making them likely soluble contaminants of the analyzed membrane proteome. 
!~MM~! A. thaliana (L.) Heynh Columbia‐0 plants were grown hydroponically for 6 weeks using a 16‐h dark/8‐h light (120 µmol photons m−2 s−1) cycle at 22°C and 70% relative humidity. Thylakoid membranes were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves (Noren et al. CITATION), purified by sucrose gradient centrifugation (Thuswaldner et al. CITATION) and fractionated with digitonin into grana and stroma thylakoid regions (Fristedt et al. CITATION). Chlorophyll (Chl) concentration and a/b ratios were determined following extraction in 80% (v/v) acetone (Porra et al. CITATION). Three preparations of stroma thylakoids (approximately 100 µg Chl each) were pooled to obtain sufficient material for the steps described below.  Stroma thylakoid membranes were treated with 3 µg of sequencing grade‐modified trypsin (TRY, Promega, Madison, WI) (protein to TRY ratio of 40:1 w/w) at 37°C for 16–24 h (modified protocol of Vainonen et al. (CITATION)). Following centrifugation at 200 000 g for 1 h, the pelleted shaved stroma thylakoids were mildly vortexed with 50 mM Na2CO3 for 5 min, and centrifuged again at 200 000 g for 1 h (modified protocol of Friso et al. (CITATION)). The pellet was resuspended in 50 mM NH4HCO3 followed by centrifugation at 200 000 g for 1 h. The pelleted shaved stroma thylakoids were reduced with 4 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) in 100 mM NH4HCO3 at 55°C for 30 min and alkylated with fresh 15 mM iodoacetamide in darkness for 10 min. The stroma thylakoids were incubated with 5 µg TLCK‐treated mass spectrometry grade chymotrypsin (CTR) (Thermo Scientific, Hudson, NH) at a protein to CTR ratio of 20:1 (w/w) at 37°C for 16–24 h, according to the manufacturer protocols. Following centrifugation at 200 000 g for 1 h, the supernatant was dissolved in 50% (v/v) acetonitrile (ACN) for LC–MS/MS analysis. The CTR‐digested pellet was treated with a mixture of 60% (v/v) methanol and CTR (M/CTR) (modified protocol of Blonder et al. (CITATION)). Following centrifugation at 200 000 g for 1 h, the M/CTR supernatant was dissolved in 50% (v/v) ACN for further analysis by LC–MS/MS. The CTR‐digested pellet was also dissolved in 1% SDS (w/v) and mixed with 14% (w/v) acrylamide, 1% (w/v) TEMED, 0.5% (w/v) APS and 12.5 mM NH4HCO3 followed by polymerization at 45°C for 1.5 h, and wash to remove SDS. The gel‐embedded proteins were digested at 37°C using either trypsin (in‐gel TRY) (Zhou et al. CITATION) or CTR (in‐gel CTR) at a protein to enzyme ratio of 20:1 (w/w), and dissolved in 50% (v/v) ACN. Prior to LC–MS/MS analysis, the released peptides were separated from gel debris by centrifugation at 14 000 g for 10 min. The complete flow scheme for preparation of stroma thylakoid membranes and enrichment of hydrophobic peptides by the four methods described above is shown in Fig. 1.  [[FIGURE]] The peptide mixtures obtained from each of the four methods were analyzed using an on‐line nano‐flow high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system (EASY‐nLC; Proxeon, Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany) in conjugation with an ion trap mass spectrometer HCTultra PTM Discovery System (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany). A 20 mm × 100 µm pre‐column followed by a 100 mm × 75 µm analytical column (Nanoseparations, Nieuwkoop, Netherlands) both packed with reverse‐phase C18 were used for separation at a flow rate of 300 nl min−1. The LC gradient buffers used were (A) 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in water; (B) 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in 100% ACN. Separation was performed for 240 min as follows: 0–15% B during the first 110 min; 15–40% B during 110–200 min; 40–100% B during 200–220 min and 100% B during 220–240 min. Automated online tandem MS/MS analyses were performed using collision‐induced dissociation (CID) and electron transfer dissociation (ETD) of peptide ions. The peptide mixtures were analyzed by LC–MS/MS in four runs for the in‐solution methods and in two runs for the in‐gel methods.  Two types of spectral peak component lists were generated from the raw data using Bruker Daltonics DataAnalysis 3.4: large molecular and small molecular. The settings for both types of peak components were the following: a positive intensity threshold of 100, a maximum compound of 2500 and a retention time of 0.1% RSD. For large molecular, the mass range was from 1000 to 100 000 Da, the abundance cutoff was 10%, the minimum peak in components was 3 and the maximum number of components was 10. For small molecular, the abundance cutoff was 2%. Both CID and ETD induced peptide ion lists for the two types of components settings were exported from this program. These files were analyzed using Mascot search engine (www.matrixscience.com/) against the UniProt database (www.uniprot.org). The peptide mass tolerance was ±0.4 Da, whereas the fragment mass tolerance for CID and ETD files was ±0.8 and ±1.5 Da, respectively. The set number of missed cleavages for trypsin and chymotrypsin was 2. The set fixed modification was carbamidomethyl, and the variable modification was methionine oxidation. All Mascot search files were loaded into Scaffold Program (version 3.0.00, Proteome Software Inc., Portland, OR). Protein identification was based on a protein probability score >95% and at least one unique peptide with a probability score >80%, Mascot ion and identity scores >20 and a delta score >0. The resulting list of proteins was searched back in Mascot files. Those proteins and the matching peptides displaying Mascot scores >30 and Expect >0.05 are listed in Tables S1 and S2, Supporting Information, respectively. Peptides with scores <30 were not considered.  The grand average of hydropathy (GRAVY score) was calculated for all identified peptides from the ProtParam Tool at ExPASy (Kyte and Doolittle CITATION) (www.expasy.org) and listed in Table S2.  The subcellular location of identified proteins was predicted using TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/), ChloroP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) and Wolf PSORT (http://wolfpsort.seq.cbrc.jp). Transmembrane Hidden Markov Model (TMHMM) was used for prediction of putative transmembrane domains (TMD) (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/). Information about MapMan functional classification (Thimm et al. CITATION) was extracted at PPDB (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu). Additional localization and functional information was obtained at TAIR (www.arabidopsis.org), UniProt and PubMed (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed).  SDS‐PAGE and western blotting were performed as described (Yin et al. CITATION). Antibodies against the CP43 and Lhcb2 subunits of PSII, the PsaB subunit of PSI, the AtpB subunit of the ATP‐synthase, the envelope marker Tic40 and the plasma membrane marker H+‐ATPase were obtained from Agrisera (Vännäs, Sweden). The antibodies against the vacuolar marker TIP1;1, the thylakoid ATP/ADP carrier (TAAC) and the phosphate transporter PHT4;1 were previously described (Thuswaldner et al. CITATION, Pavon et al. CITATION, Beebo et al. CITATION). The immunodetection was performed using the ECL‐Plus system (GE Healthcare, Buckinghamshire, UK), followed by visualization using LAS‐4000 (Fujifilm, Tokyo, Japan). 
