!~ABS~! • Plant NTRC contains a NTR domain fused to a thioredoxin module and is an efficient reductant of 2-Cys peroxiredoxins. • The interaction of NTRC and chloroplastic thioredoxin x with 2-Cys peroxiredoxin has been demonstrated both in vivo (by BiFC) and in vitro (by ITC). • NTRC binds 2-Cys peroxiredoxin with higher affinity than thioredoxin x. • Both the thioredoxin and NTR domains contribute to the interaction of NTRC with 2-Cys peroxiredoxin. • The thioredoxin domain of NTRC prevents the interaction with thioredoxin x. Plant NTRC contains a NTR domain fused to a thioredoxin module and is an efficient reductant of 2-Cys peroxiredoxins. The interaction of NTRC and chloroplastic thioredoxin x with 2-Cys peroxiredoxin has been demonstrated both in vivo (by BiFC) and in vitro (by ITC). NTRC binds 2-Cys peroxiredoxin with higher affinity than thioredoxin x. Both the thioredoxin and NTR domains contribute to the interaction of NTRC with 2-Cys peroxiredoxin. The thioredoxin domain of NTRC prevents the interaction with thioredoxin x.
!~RES~! Although initial analysis of the plastidial Trxs, based on in vitro activity assays, identified type-x Trx as a potential reductant of 2-Cys Prxs CITATION, further studies revealed that NTRC acts as a more efficient reductant of these sulfoproteins CITATION. These results are in line with in vivo data showing interaction of NTRC, but not Trx x, with 2-Cys Prx based on Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) analyses CITATION. Moreover, the redox status of 2-Cys Prxs is severely affected in NTRC deficient plants, in contrast with the Trx x knockout mutant CITATION, lending support to the notion that NTRC is the predominant reductant of chloroplast 2-Cys Prxs. In this study we have investigated the interaction of 2-Cys Prxs with NTRC and Trx x by a combination of in vivo and in vitro approaches, the rationale for such analyses being to arrive at a quantitative understanding of the thiol-disulfide redox regulatory network of the chloroplast. BiFC experiments show the in vivo interaction of NTRC and Trx x with both 2-Cys Prx A and B in N. benthamiana chloroplasts (CITATION ), whereas control experiments with individual constructs did not show fluorescence signals (CITATION). While the Trx x/2-Cys Prxs interaction produced a uniform fluorescence within chloroplasts, patches were observed in the interaction of NTRC with either 2-Cys Prx A or 2-Cys Prx B (CITATION). This pattern is similar to that previously reported for the interaction of NTRC with the CHL-I subunit of the Mg-chelatase complex CITATION, indicating the tendency of NTRC to form speckles in the interaction with its chloroplast targets. This seems to be a specific feature of NTRC since it is not observed in the 2-Cys Prxs/Trx x interaction (CITATION). Although this behavior may be related with the tendency of NTRC to form aggregates CITATION, it is not yet known the functional significance of the formation of speckles of this protein and its interacting partners. Once established the in vivo interaction of NTRC and Trx x with 2-Cys Prxs, the molecular recognition between these proteins was analyzed in vitro by ITC. This matter is of particular interest in the case of NTRC, as it has been previously reported that this enzyme shows additional dynamic motions associated with the extra Trx module, which are altered in the presence of 2-Cys Prx CITATION. Consequently, in order to understand the catalytic behavior of this enzyme, it is of interest to establish the contribution of the NTR and Trx modules to the interaction with 2-Cys Prx, for which experiments using the truncated NTR (NTRM) and Trx (TrxM) modules of NTRC were also carried out. In plants both NTRC and 2-Cys Prxs can exist as oligomers CITATION, and thus dilution effects affecting the oligomerization equilibrium could disturb the ITC results. As oligomerization was shown to specifically affect reduced 2-Cys Prxs CITATION, the oxidized form of the enzyme was used in our analyses. In the case of NTRC, although oligomeric species could be still formed at the low concentration used (20μM), dilution effects were minimized by placing this protein in the calorimeter cell (see also inset in CITATION as a control of NTRC dilution). Moreover, it was previously proven that NTRC activity is independent of its oligomeric state, indicating that accessibility of the flavin and the disulfide active sites are not affected in the oligomeric species CITATION. Therefore, interferences from dilution/oligomerization effects can be excluded for both proteins. In addition, in all cases where interaction was observed the dependence of the heat evolved during titrations could be well fitted to a 1:1 binding stoichiometry (CITATION ), confirming the adequacy of the experimental approach used, and values for K A (and K D and ΔG) as well as the ΔH and −TΔS for the binding process were estimated (CITATION ). CITATION shows titration experiments for the NTRC/2-Cys Prx and Trx x/2-Cys Prx native partner interactions. In agreement with previous kinetic data CITATION, no interaction was detected for the NTRC/Trx x couple (CITATION, inset), thus confirming that NTRC does not act as reductant of Trx x. As shown in CITATION, K D and free energy values for the binding process are of the same order of magnitude for the NTRC/2-Cys Prx and Trx x/2-Cys Prx couples, although lower K D, and thus higher affinity, was observed for the NTRC/2-Cys Prx system. The data also indicate similar interaction forces in the 2-Cys Prx binding to either NTRC or Trx x. Thus, the binding process, as deduced from the ΔH and −TΔS values (CITATION), is mainly driven by entropic factors in both cases, whereas the enthalpic contributions are rather weak. The favorable entropic contribution to binding in these two redox couples probably indicates solvent disorganization, arising from the release of water molecules from the protein–protein interaction area upon complex formation. It is worthy to note that although protein–protein interactions in redox reactions must be transient and usually show the moderately low K A values here determined, a previous ITC study on Trx/Prx interaction of mitochondrial proteins identified a extremely high-affinity binding (K D =126pM) driven by enthalpic factors, able to largely counterbalance unfavorable entropic contributions CITATION. The ΔC P value for the NTRC/2-Cys Prx interaction (−80calK−1 mol−1; not shown), estimated from experiments at different temperatures, is relatively small but similar to that of other transient interactions between redox binding partners, indicating a major contribution of the hydrophobic effect to binding CITATION. Moreover, ΔC P is considered to mirror changes in the exposure to solvent during the interaction process, and a small value of ΔC P would suggest both a small interaction interface and the occurrence of small conformational changes during partners binding CITATION. However, it has been previously suggested that NTRC has a “closed” conformation of the two interacting NTR and Trx modules, which “opens” when interacting with 2-Cys Prx CITATION. This would be compatible with a small ΔC P if the solvent exposure of the binding interface compensates for the conformational change upon binding. By using the isolated NTRM and TrxM truncated modules of NTRC, we have then analyzed the involvement of the NTR and Trx domains in the interaction of this enzyme with 2-Cys Prx. CITATION shows the titrations of the NTRM/TrxM and TrxM/2-Cys Prx couples, the thermodynamic parameters determined from the data fitting being shown in CITATION. Both TrxM (CITATION) and NTRM (not shown) modules are able to bind 2-Cys Prx with an equivalent affinity but somewhat lower than for the full NTRC enzyme (K D ≈13–14μM vs. 9μM, respectively; CITATION). This fact strongly supports that both the NTR and Trx domains contribute to 2-Cys Prx binding. This is not unexpected, as the modeled NTRC structure shows that the active cysteine groups of the Trx domain locate at the interface with the NTR domain and in close contact with the latter CITATION. The forces involved in the interaction of 2-Cys Prx with each one of the two domains are, however, different: the strong entropic contributions that drive the NTRM/2-Cys Prx binding markedly contrast with the strong favorable enthalpic character of the interaction of the isolated Trx module with 2-Cys Prx. Based on the experimental approach used here, however, it is difficult to elucidate the relative contribution of each NTRC domain to substrate binding, as separate TrxM and NTRM modules may expose additional protein surfaces that are hindered in the complete NTRC enzyme, thus having influence on the ITC experiments. The truncated NTRM and TrxM polypeptides show NTR and Trx activity, respectively CITATION. Therefore, although NTRC might have NTR activity, it seems not to be the case since, as stated before, no NTRC/Trx x interaction was detected neither by kinetic nor ITC analysis (CITATION, CITATION; and see CITATION). Interestingly, the removal of TrxM allows the NTR module of NTRC to interact with Trx x, although with reduced affinity (K D ca. 53μM; CITATION). Remarkably, the thermodynamic parameters for the interaction of NTRM with either Trx x or the isolated TrxM are equivalent, with similar low K D values of ca. 50μM (K A ≈2×104 M−1; ΔG ≈−24kJmol−1; CITATION). A possible explanation for this behavior is that in NTRC the “Trx substrate” is already bound to the NTR module, and there is no strong selective pressure for a high affinity towards Trxs, although in any case the interaction of NTRM with Trx x and TrxM is similar. The data also indicate that the interaction of NTRM with either Trx x or the isolated TrxM is mainly driven by enthalpic interactions, indicating that the NTR module of NTRC might behave as a standard NTR. To test this possibility, we analyzed the interaction of the NTRB/Trx h1 couple, which was previously isolated from wheat CITATION, as an example of standard NTR/Trx system. Interestingly, NTRB/Trx h1 binding is also mainly driven by enthalpic factors (CITATION), suggesting the occurrence of strong polar specific interactions (electrostatic and hydrogen bonds) between the two partners, in a similar manner to the NTRM interaction with either Trx x or the TrxM module of NTRC (CITATION). Thus the interaction between plant NTRs and their Trx substrates seems to be mainly determined by electrostatic forces and hydrogen bonds, either when interacting with a free Trx (in NTRB) or with a Trx fused module (in NTRC). Although the structure of NTRC is not yet solved, a modeled 3-D structure of the NTRC dimer has been recently reported CITATION. The model shows that the linker region connecting the NTR and Trx domains would allow enough flexibility for the repositioning of the latter, and that extensive interactions involving electrostatic groups between both domains may stabilize the dimeric NTRC structure CITATION. Moreover, the analysis of different 2-Cys Prx mutant variants indicates that the C-terminus of 2-Cys Prx is decisively involved in the interaction with NTRC, and that a variant mimicking the hyperoxidized form shows a reduced interaction CITATION. To conclude, our results demonstrate the interaction of 2-Cys Prx with both NTRC and Trx x in vivo, as shown by the BiFC experiments, and indicate that these interactions exhibit the moderately low affinity typical of transient complexes, as observed by ITC. In addition, both the NTR and Trx domains of NTRC contribute significantly to the interaction with 2-Cys Prx. Finally, our results support the proposal that 2-Cys Prx can be reduced in the chloroplast by two parallel, and complementary, pathways CITATION, involving either NADPH-dependent reduction by NTRC, or an alternative pathway associated to a ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase and Trx x, and thus dependent of ferredoxin. However, it should be noted that NTRC binds 2-Cys Prx with higher affinity, thus confirming the predominant role of NTRC in the control of the redox status of 2-Cys Prx, as previously suggested by the analysis of the ntrc and the trxx knockout mutants CITATION.
!~MM~! The full length open reading frame (ORF), excluding the stop codon, encoding NTRC, Trx x, 2-Cys Prx A and 2-Cys Prx B were amplified by RT-PCR from total RNA of Arabidopsis seedlings using primers (CITATION) that added attB recombination sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively. PCR products were gel-purified, cloned in the Gateway pDONR207 vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced in both strands. The cloned cDNAs were then transferred to the BiFC vectors pSPYNE-35S_GW and pSPYCE-35S_GW, respectively CITATION, using the LR Clonase (Invitrogen) following manufacturer’s instructions. Resulting plasmids, pSPYNE:NTRC, pSPYNE:Trx x, pSPYCE:2-Cys Prx A and pSPYCE:2-Cys Prx B, were then transformed into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. It should be noted that we were unable to transfer neither 2-Cys Prx A nor 2-Cys Prx B cDNAs to the pSPYNE-35S_GW vector, indicating that these constructs may be toxic to the E. coli cells. For BiFC assays, Agrobacterium strains carrying individual constructs were mixed at 1:1 ratio or individually infiltrated into leaves of 4-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Leaf sections were analyzed 4days later by confocal microscopy performed with a Leica SP/2 inverted microscope. Image analysis was performed with the Leica SP/2 software package and the ImageJ bundle provided by the Wright Cell Imaging facility. Expression and purification from E. coli cells of recombinant NTRB and Trx h1 (cytoplasmic) from wheat, and NTRC, 2-Cys Prx and Trx x (chloroplastic) from rice, were carried out as previously described CITATION. The truncated NTR (NTRM) and Trx (TrxM) domains of NTRC were generated introducing a termination codon in the interdomain region, and purified as previously described CITATION. In all cases, proteins were produced as N-terminal His-tagged forms in their oxidized state. NTRs concentrations were determined spectrophotometrically using absorption coefficients of 12.2 (NTRB) and 15.2 (NTRC and NTRM) mM−1 cm−1 at 456nm CITATION. Concentrated protein solutions were stored at −80°C until use. ITC experiments were carried out in 5mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, supplemented with 0.02% (w/v) Triton X-100, using an Auto-ITC200 instrument (Microcal, GE Healthcare) at 25°C and a stirring speed of 1000rpm. The reference cell was filled with distilled water. Protein solutions (20μM) were titrated with successive additions (2μL injections) of concentrated protein partner solutions. All solutions were degassed before titrations. Titrant was injected at appropriate time intervals to ensure that the thermal power signal returned to the baseline prior to the next injection. Control experiments of the dilution of individual injected proteins were carried out and these reference heat values were subtracted from measuring values of test titrations when appropriate (e.g. titration of TrxM with NTRM). The normalized heat per injection as a function of the molar ratio was analyzed with Origin 7 (OriginLab). In all cases the heat evolved during titrations could be well fitted to a 1:1 binding stoichiometry, and the association constant, K A (and the dissociation constant, K D), and the binding enthalpy (ΔH) and entropy (ΔS) values for the interaction process were estimated CITATION. The heat capacity change (ΔC P) in the NTRC/2-Cys Prx interaction was estimated from experiments at different temperatures (15, 20 and 25°C) CITATION. Estimated errors in the determined values were 15% for the equilibrium constants, 5% for the binding enthalpy and entropy, and 2% for the binding Gibbs energy.
